TARTAN
Septeber 20, 1977 Volume 78, Number 3, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213Rhodesians study business, management at CMU
Program has 
National 
Consequences
Se ptbr 2t0r,190
To internationalize its scope, the School 
of Urban and Public Affairs has initiated a 
public management and policy curriculum 
for foreign students. The first participants 
of the program are Rhodesians.
In taking the 28 black Rhodesian 
students, SUPA dean Otto Davis hopes to 
insure the success of the transition to 
majority rule in that country by helping to 
train future government officials in public 
management.
Davis attributes the failure of many new 
governments in developing nations to the 
lack of trained personnel in responsible 
positions. He added that Rhodesia is a 
very fertile, mineral-rich nation with great 
potential. Effective management could in
sure greatest social and economic rewards.
One year here !
In the year-long program, the Rhodesian 
students will study at CMU for two semesters. During that time, the course of 
study will include the standard SUPA 
courses in public management, accounting, 
benefit/cost analysis, and information sys
tems.
Courses in administration of develop
ment programs, manpower, economic poli
cy, evaluation of government programs, 
and operations research, designed specif
ically for the project, will round out the 
curriculum.
After successful completion of this pro
ject phase, students will receive a certif
icate in Public Management and Policy and 
return to Rhodesia, with some SUPA staff 
members, in order to complete project 
work with the aid of the University of 
Rhodesia. The field project courses Phys
ical Technical Systems, and Systems Syn
thesis, in addition to elective courses, will 
complete the work needed for  Masters 
degree awarded by CMU.
Profs travel to Rhodesia
According to Davis, CMU became in
volved in the project after a representative 
of Allegheny Ludlum approached Davis 
last December.
The steel corporation has long involved 
itself in projects leading to majority rule,
H&SS' AAC expands
College takes 
more steps toward 
'professionalism'
Se 7Vbortl u9S90
Last year, H&SS Associate Dean Betty 
Jean Lloyd established the Academic Ad
visory Center (AAC) for H&SS students. 
This year, under the direction of newlyappointed William Cohn (History Depart
ment), the Center has widened its scope 
and expects to produce a more competi
tive H&SS graduate.
Cohn believes that not knowing what 
the options are is the college students 
main problem. The AAC will minimize
that problem, he feels, by showing fresh
men and sophomores more of the oppor
tunities available to them than has been 
shown to them in the past.
The Center plans to do this by first 
screening all students who apply for ad
mission to H&SS. Freshmen and sopho
mores will be informed about classes 
availably to them, and they will be given 
career guidance through the Career Ser
vices and Placement Office. Students 
wishing to self-define a major will be 
counseled, and requirements for sub
programs, such as pre-law and pre-man
agement, will be explained in detail.
continued on page 2
including a plan to build a factory in Rho
desia and give black workers homes so they 
could qualify to vote by fulfilling property 
requirements.
In June, CMU representatives received 
pledges, on the basis of a program propos
al from several private corporations. Their 
interest in the project lies in Rhodesias 
minerals, kept from U.S. corporations by 
enforced trade sanctions until resolution of 
Rhodesias political problems.
After finding U.S. support in the pro
gram, SUPA officials travelled to Rhodesia. 
Here they approached all political factions, 
including the ruling regime, to gain both 
local support for the program and names of 
potential candidates. This effort was re
quired to demonstrate the non-political na
ture of the project. Political partiality, in 
this .situation, is a U.S. federal offense.
Potential students then took the GRE, 
as would U.S. students, to qualify for the 
program, and further selection was based 
on student motivation in a math skills 
course, which was taught to potential 
candidates in Rhodesia by CMU staff.
Four days to pack
The 28 students, chosen August 23, had
RA Directors 
enjoy new jobs
Se m,18t 79tN
Two outstanding young people with 
fresh and exciting ideas for improving resi
dence life would best describe the new 
residence directors, Claudia Geraci, and 
Corey Chase. Both enter their jobs with 
impressive qualifications, ranging from 
their education to the enthusiasm pro
jected for the future of residence life pro
grams at CMU.
Claudia commented, This university 
has a very poor residence program as com
pared to other universities. Im familiar 
with and have worked with. She comes 
to CMU after extensive training in student
continued on page 2
CMU to build Solar Energy Lab
City of Pittsburgh 
watches with interest
Se m,18t 79tN
Anxious to address the problems of 
economic solar energy generation and 
conservation techniques, an interdisciplin
ary group from Carnegie-Mellon is await
ing the October groundbreaking of a 
Solar Energy Laboratory.
The 2,143 cubic foot structure will be 
built next to the Doherty Apartment 
House, and will contain the integral sys
tems for heating and cooling a typical 
structure, subject to climatic conditions 
in the Pittsburgh area.
Professors of Mechanical Engineering 
Arthur T. Murphy and George Tallman 
Ladd are the principle investigators for 
the project. They have been assisted by
continued on page 2
only four days until their departure. Dur
ing this time, Rhodesian officials moved 
quickly to issue passports, and U.S. offi
cials, who do not recognize Rhodesian 
passports normally, hastened the visaissuance process from 3 weeks to 8 hours. 
Departure fare from Rhodesia had to be 
raised in that country, since U.S. dollars 
are not recognized there.
cont inued on page 2
inside
news
Deadlines for various schalorships are 
approaching, many of which CMU 
students are eligible for (page 3).
entertainment
The Camelot production of Rodgers and 
Hammersteins Carousel features some 
fine dancing (page 18).
(olio
SPECIAL ISSUE-The story of Hal 
Aqua, a man every student at CMU 
should know (page 11).sports
TARTANS VICTORIOUSAfter last 
weeks disappointing loss to California 
State, CMLPs top-ranked football squad 
defeated Belaney 30-7 (page 21).J

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TARTANSeptember 20, 1977
RA Directors enjoy new
continued from page 1
life programs, A Resident Assistant during 
three of her undergraduate years at the 
acted as a graduate assistant to the Dean of 
Students, running both the mens and wo
mens dorms while obtaining her M.A. in 
Higher Education Administration. Al
though her experience might be impressive 
on the job market, Claudia claims that she 
obtained this job on impulse while visiting 
the Pittsburgh area. She happened to in
vestigate the CMU personnel office and in
quired about the posted job opening for a
residence director. They called me for an 
interview the next day.
Corey had a more introspective view 
when he decided to apply for the residence 
job. I wanted to work with students on 
a professional track, and I had heard of 
some of the professors here, also, he 
maintained. Like Claudia, he had been an 
undergraduate RA (at Bloomfield College), 
in addition to working as a housing intern 
and coordinator of student activities. Ob
taining a M.A. in Student Personnel Ad
ministration in Higher Education from 
Columbia University, Corey continued as 
an Administrative Assistant to the School 
of Education at New York University.
They "facilitate student life"
Relying on past experiences, both pos
itive and negative, the resident directors 
agree that their main purpose for being on 
compus is to facilitate student life and to 
help establish a comprehensive student life 
program. As residence directors, their re
sponsibilities are numerous, including: 
Maintaining office hours from four oclock 
until midnight; advising campus residence 
groups, especially SDC; prosecuting viola
tions of dorm regulations? monitoring the 
efforts of the'RAs; responding to dorm 
emergencies; and most importantly, devel
oping programs to build a sense of com
munity among the campus residents.
Claudia chuckled at the office hours, 
saying, Its common to have meetings 
from twelve oclock in the afternoon until 
three oclock at night. Last week, Corey 
and I attended fifteen floor meetings in 
one evening. Corey added that The job 
requires us to be available almost 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week. Both wish the
co-investigators from the Mechanical, Civil, 
and Electrical Engineering and Architec
ture faculties, and the Advanced Building 
Studies program. -Students in these dis
ciplines have also been involved in pro
jects relating to the design, construction 
and experimental use of the proposed 
lab facilities.
$175,000 granted
The project was made possible through 
a $175,000 grant from the Laurel Foun
dation. In addition to the funding, area 
corporations and alumni have contributed 
their services for the solar lab construc
tion. Pittsburgh Plate Glass donated the 
essential roof-mounted collectors for 
the lab, while Alcoa offered a consul
tants services.
Industrial participation was partly de
pendent on an agreement that the re
spective industries would have access to 
data collected in the Lab, to supplement 
their own projects. PPG, for example, 
has built a smaller solar energy unit to 
aid their experimentation in solar col
lector panels. Burt, Hill and Associates, 
alumni of the Architecture department, 
are responsible for the blueprints of the 
lab, while CIT alumnus Robert Busse is
students to be aware that in the case of 
one of the resident directoos not being on 
campus, students could rely on the emer
gency services of Bernie Vlozas, a form
er head RA, who resides in Doherty Apart
ment House.
When asked of her first impression of 
this campus, Claudia admitted to being sur
prised at hearing of the amount of vandal
ism, for there is no rational reason for 
vandalism, especially from a university' 
student. I have no qualms about finding 
out names and faces of violators, she 
asserted. Theyll pay for what they 
destroy. Her co-worker suggested that 
the high incidence of vandalism might be 
attributed in part to the Universitys 
handling of such illegal acts. Corey doesnt 
agree with the prevailing campus attitude 
that the destructuveness is a venting of 
work pressure. He admitted, I have had 
second thoughts already, concerning the 
aims and goals of this campus. Groups of 
people staggering around campus after the 
first weekend, not to mention blatantly 
smoking outside, does not promote CMUs 
self-image. He disappointedly added, 
The caliber of this school is not reflected 
by the actions of some of the students.
Claudia cited another problem which 
had bothered her immediately. Ive 
heard many students claim, It wasnt done 
this way last year, which is incongruent 
with the nature of such a research-oriented 
university. Their educational programs 
may be constantly changing, but the 
people programs are stagnant.
The new directors were also aware of 
the student-imposed distinctions between 
the Hill dorm and Morewood Garden 
residents, indicating that there was not a 
unified residence program. -Claudia and 
Corey plan to assist the RAs in establish
ing what they refer to as a total RA 
program. Claudia added that she hopes to 
see more social events, sponsored by sever
al dorms combined planning for this sem
ester.
Designs in spare time
Stemming from her interest in art and 
graphics, Claudia has been creating interior 
room designsfor dorms during her spare 
time. She feels Morewood Gardens defcontracting the project.
Murphy expects the solar lab to begin 
handling experimental work no later than 
June, but he claims, In December were 
preparing the lab for actual use later on.
Design is Crucial
The design and construction portion 
of the lab is actually a crucial part of the 
experiment. Flexibility in construction 
is a major concern of the interdisciplinary 
group. The types and locations of col
lectors, mechanical components and build
ing components must be able to be varied, 
says Murphy. This will help guarantee 
the projects aim at being economically 
feasible for adaptation in the building 
community.
When asked if the solar lab would ini
tiate any curriculum changes, Murphy 
replied, It wont change that dras
tically, for those courses involved are 
already geared toward solar energy 
problems. For example, there is cur
rently a study on the heating and cooling 
of a building, where heat is obtained 
by making ice in the winter which is then 
melted to operate a cooling system in the 
summer. The only planned addition to 
the ME curriculum is a Special Topics
initely needs a facelift, especially the main 
lobby. Ideally, Claudia envisions the 
rooms adjoining D Tower being subdivided 
into personal units or parlors. She 
thinks that this arrangement would break 
the open spaces and invite students to 
use the area more advantageously for enter
taining, studying or relaxing.
The new residence directors also hope 
to instigate increased student involvement 
with the faculty. Corey stressed, A lot 
of faculty have great ideas for the residence 
halls, but are waiting for the students to 
make the first move. They are willing to 
help out in most anything, from informal 
talks in the dorms to tutoring, its just a 
question of initiating and accepting the fa
cultys assistance. There are also facul
ty/student dinners in the planning stages,
jobs
but an invitation system must be worked 
out for the idea to materialize.
As new personnel on campus, Claudia 
and Corey summarized the importance vof 
their position with the statement, We 
were hired to help the University, but can 
only do so if the students want this help. 
Corey emphasized that We welcome any 
opinions, ideas, and assistance from those 
who are interested in a comprehensive 
residence program, and added, my 
door is literally always open. Claudia 
confirmed, I hope students feel free 
to drop in and talk any evening.
Cfaudia Geraci can be found a first 
floor apartment in E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens, and Corey Chase has an apart
ment off the main lounge in Donner 
Hall.
Davis added that this is a good exam
ple of what the private sector and'a private 
university can do. Were taking a big risk, 
since only $100,000 of the $500,000 pro
gram cost has been raised. But Im confient.
Furthermore, he hopes the program will 
expand to other university departments, 
since Rhodesians could benefit from man
agement programs at CMU that are not 
offered in their British-based education 
system.
and graduate schools. These goals are 
newly-defined, and are the result of AACs 
expansion and Cohns appointment. Dean 
Lloyd now handles most of the upperclass counseling for H&SS.
The Academic Advisory Centers ex
pansion and the revision of H&SSs core 
requirements change the face of H&SS. 
The applying high school senior will have a 
better math background than in the past to 
be accepted here, and the College will no 
longer allow students to study intensely 
in one or two areas while neglecting all 
others.
Dean Lloyd and Director Cohn hope to 
produce a liberal-professional graduateone who has an edge over other graduates 
in post-college competition.
Residents to vote
Elections for Student Dormitory 
Council (SDC) representatives will be held 
tomorrow, September 21, and Thursday, 
September 22.
In addition to electing representatives 
from their dormitories to the council, 
students will be asked to vote on two re
ferenda. The first asks, Should your dorm 
be locked at night? If yes, what times? 
The second referenda asks whether the 
voter would object to a $1 increase in the 
Dorm Activities Fee. The Dorm Activities 
Fee currently $4 per semester.
SDC is subdivided into three major 
parts: Governmental, Service, and Social. 
The Governmental devision consists of the 
Executive Board and its ad hoc committees. 
Service includes committees that deal with 
Renovations, Fire and Safety, Food Ser
vices and Intramurals. The Social division 
includes the Film, Social, Buggy, Booth, 
Spring Carnival, and Publicity Committees.
continued on page 5 *
Solar Energy Lab
continued from page 1
Rhodesians at CMU
continued from page 1 Dean is confident
Also, a license for the futher work in 
Rhodesia from their Treasury department, 
and assurance from officials in all factions 
that students would be employed by whatver government ruled at the time of the 
programs completion, were required be
fore the Rhodesians arrived.
Once here, the Rhodesians began a 
week-long orientation with other SUPA 
students. Dean Davis hopes the students 
do not become political figures. He wants 
to do something good for the world 
through this project.
H&SS' ACC
\ / 
continued from page 1
Other, less concrete responsibilities of 
the AAC include urging students to parti
cipate in extra-curricular activities, and 
handling academic actions (probation, 
substituted requirements) within the 
college.
H&SS expects through this program to 
be able to enroll better students, to retain 
these better students, and to place grad
uates in desirable positions, including jobs
course in Solar Energy.
Solar Ice Rink 
The emphasis on solar energy is espe
cially evident this year in the senior ME 
design projects. Those not directly connec
ted with aspects of solar lab design and 
construction, are working on related pro
jects, such as the Solar Minimum Energy 
House, a Solar Powered Pump or wind
mills. One of the projects, entitled 
Solar Powered Ice Rink, is a study on 
the feasibility of introducing solar energy 
to operate the Schenley Park rink. Murphy 
commented that the City of Pittsburgh 
is supporting his study, and hopes that 
successful results will encourage future 
funding for such projects.
Regarding the Solar Energy Lab itself, 
the interdisciplinary group hopes that 
its construction will be a first step in 
establishing Carnegie-Mellon University 
as a major international research center 
in the field of Solar Energy and energy 
conservation in building design. The 
plausibility of relying on Solar Energy 
for commercial and residential heating 
and cooling systems will depend on the 
economical attributes of solar energy, 
such as practical, inexpensive methods 
for generating solar power.

---------------------------------------------------

September 20, 1977TARTAN-Page 3
Scholarship deadlines approach
Se 3C 7911,l aet1
A new activity for the Office of Career 
Services and Placement this year is that of 
serving as an information center for many 
of the post-graduate fellowship and schol
arship programs available to students for 
study in the US and abroad. Detailed in
formation and application materials for 
many of these are avavilable in this office. 
A number of these awards are highly 
prized and invite competition from candi
dates throughout the U.S. or from students 
as selected and prestigious institutions. 
Accordingly, only candidates with very 
superior academic credentials should con
sider applying for these. Some of the pro
grams also require review and nomination 
of candidates by campus faculty commit
tees.
A short description of the more presti
gious awards which have application dead
lines during the coming month or two 
follows. More information about each of 
these programs is available in the Office of 
Career Services and Placement, Room 19, 
Warner Hall. As current information about 
other notable fellowship programs is re
ceived, it will be reported in the Tartan.
Winston Churchill Foundation Schol
arships. Available to American students of 
exceptional ability from a select group of 
Colleges and Universityes in the U.S. to do 
graduate work in engineering, science, or 
mathematics at Churchill College, Cam
bridge University. Approximately ten 
scholarships are awarded annually. The 
majority of these are for one year but a 
few are for three years and permit a stu
dent to work for a PhD. The annual sti
pend for the one year acholarship is $4,000 
plus a travel grant of $500. The three year
scholarship carries an annual stipend of 
$4500 and the $500 travel grant. The 
deadline for receipt of applications is Nov
ember 15.
Danforth Graduate Fellowship Program.
Applicants must be U.S. citizens or hold 
permanent residency visas. These fellow
ships are intended to give financial support 
to persons who plan to become College or 
University teachers in subject matters 
likely to be taught in a undergraduate 
liberal arts curriculum. Candidates are ex
pected to study for a PhD or other appro
priate terminal degrees. The fellowship 
tenable at an accredited university in the 
U.S. is for one year and is renewable for 
up to a total of four years. The award pro
vides for the payment of tuition and fees 
and a stipend based upon individual need. 
Carnegie Mellon is permitted two nomina
tions for Danforth awards and these must 
be received by the foundation office by 
November 15.
Fullbright-Hayes Program. This pro
gram is administered by the Institues of 
International Education to increase mutual 
understanding between the people of the 
United States and the people of other 
countries. These are study and research 
grants which are tenable at a number of in
stitutions of higher learning abroad. Candi
dates must be U.S. citizens, have an accept
able plan of study, and demonstrate pro
ficiency in the language of the host coun
try. The grants cover international tran
sportation, tuition, book and maintenance 
allowances and can be applied to study and 
research in all fields as well as professional 
training in the creative and performing
arts. Applications must be submitted by 
October 17.
Hertz Fellowships The Hertz Foundafor the scholarships. Candidates should 
have a record of the highest academic 
achievement combined with evidence of 
outstanding leadership ability and must be 
no more than 20 years of age on Septem
ber 1st of the year he or she enters the pro
gram. The names of the Universitys nom
inees and supporting documentation must 
be received by the foundation no later than 
December 5.
Marshall Scholarships. Thirty men and 
women are selected each year to study as 
Marshall Scholars for two years at British 
Universities in a wide range of subjects 
tion annually awards twenty-five to thirtyfive new grants to students for graduate 
study in the applied Physical Sciences. The 
awards are made for one year and are re
newable for a total of three years and are 
tenable at any one of fourteen prestigious 
institutions in the U.S. including Carnegie 
Mellon. Selected candidates receive a sti
pend of $5500 ($6500 is the Fellow is 
married) and the Foundation also pays all 
tuition and fees. The deadline for applica
tions to be received by the Foundation 
office is November 1.
Luce Scholarships. The Luce Scholarship 
program seeks to promote American under
standing of Asian cultures by providing 
scholarships for fifteen Americans to spend 
ten months as interns in an Asian organiza
tions. The stipend for each scholar is 
$9000. Carnegie Mellon may propose two 
nominees who submit formal applications 
(including the science and humanities). A 
Marshall Scholarship provides $5520
Scatter system
by Jonathan Eiten
The newly-installed scatter system in the 
Kiltie Cafe is not being used efficiently 
by its clients. Total costs for modifying 
the Skibo cafeteria, including some work 
done in the kitchen, came to $75,000.
The scatter system is supposed to work 
this way: A client enters the service
area and goes immediately to one of the 
tray/utensil dispensers. He should go 
to the one near where he intends to start, 
which may be at any of the several sta
tions (salad/fruit, main/side, sandwich, 
dessert, condiments, drinks). He picks 
up what he wants and proceeds in any 
order to each station that interests him. 
Finally, he takes his napkin and salt/ 
pepper/sugar at the cashier, pays or shows 
his meal ticket, and leaves.
If there is a wait at any of the stations 
(this is common at the main/side dish 
station during rush periods), lines should 
form out (that is, perpendicular to the 
counter), not along the counter, which is 
what currently happens.
Many people are aware that lines should 
form outwards, but when they see the 
line they get on it, fearing that they 
would be accused of cutting if they 
did otherwise. This is not true; the scat
ter system contains no lines. A client 
moves directly from one station to another.
When asked what Food Service intends 
to do to inform clients of the proper 
way to scatter, John Eichmuller, Direc
tor of Food Service, replied that with 
the installation of triple turnstyles next 
week, and with the new tray/utensil 
dispensers installed this week, the meth
odology of scattering will become more
annually to cover tuition, books, travel ex
penses and a monthly stipend. Applica
tions must be received by October 22.
Rhodes Scholarships. These scholarships 
are only tenable at Oxford University for 
study in one of a number of fields. Thirty 
two scholarships are awarded annually for 
two year programs leading to baccalau
reate or higher drgrees. A third year may 
be granted if the students record and plan 
of study warrant such an award. Qualifi
cations for selection include exceptional 
literary and scholastic ability and attain
ments? personal, moral, and social integrity 
of character? and physical vigor, shown by 
active involvement in sports. Candidates 
must be U. S . citizens between the ages of 
eighteen and twenty-four. In 1976 the re
striction that candidates must be males was 
removed and women are now equally con
sidered. Rhodes Scholarships provide all 
tuition and fees, round trip transportation 
to Oxford, and an annual stipend of 
$2700. Applications should be submitted 
early in October but in no case later than 
October 31.
Test Dates
For the Graduate Management Admis
sion Test (GMAT), application deadlines 
are October 14, 1977, and January 6, Feb
ruary 24, and June 16, 1978. Respective 
test dates are November 5, 1977, and Jan
uary 28, March 18, and July 8,1978.
For the Graduate Record Examination 
(GRE), application deadlines are Novem
ber 9 and December 13, 1977, and January 
25, March 22, and May 10, 1978. Respec
tive test dates are December 10, 1977, and 
January 14, February 25, April 22, and 
June 10, 1978.
For the Law School Aptitude Test 
(LSAT), application deadlines are Novem
ber 7, 1977, and January 5, March 16, and 
June 15, 1978. Respective test dates are 
December 3, 1977, and Febrary 4, April 
15, and July 15, 1978.
Informational booklets and applications 
are available in the Office of Career Ser
vices and Placement, Warner Hall 19.
Mr. Ryan is Director of Career Services and 
Placement.
Scobell is ready
Se n901,9 git1l-MbrUv
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, expects the newly-created rooms in 
Scobell basement to be ready for occupancy today.
The contractor is expected to vacate the 
site by today, after having finished all 
construction this past Friday.
Priority in filling the 26 new spaces will 
go to the freshmen assigned there original
ly. Most of the assignees have been relo
cated in fraternity houses. Dillon doubts 
that all the assignees will wish to move to 
Scobell from their current locations. If 
this turns out to be the case, the basement 
rooms will be offered to current ScobeD 
residents who have expressed a desire to 
move to the new rooms.
Other renovations planned for the 
Scobell area include a patio, to be built 
between Boss and Scobell Halls, and the 
replacement of the mud rut now in front 
of Scobell with a cement walkway.
Dillon wishes to remind students who 
are unhappy in their present locations that 
they can move to another residence hall or 
room. A list of vacancies is available for 
student inspection in the Housing Office.
The largest block of vacancies exists 
in the new Doherty House basement apart
ments.
S3a a?
a
Student Dorm Council 
Elections will be held on
Wednesday, September 21 
Thursday, September 22
From 12 noon to 9 pm
Polls are located in the Donner?Hall and Morewood Garden Lobbies
S3
Cl
Two referenda on ballot:
??
??
S3
S
S3S3
S3S3HS3S3
S3
S3
Should your dorm be locked at night? 
Would you oppose a $1.00 increase 
in the Dorm Acti/ities Fee?
S3


---------------------------------------------------

Page 4TARTANSeptember 20, 1977
MAA Exposed!
Se 3V1tUMt1 s,U91
Although members are willing to speak 
freely about their organization, writing an 
article describing and defining the group 
that calls itself MAA was not an easy task.
I entered the Pi Lambda Phi house, the 
residence of Loud Greg Tarsa, MAA Co
coordinator and Founder; his Faithful 
Shadow, Hungry Scott Sibley; and other 
MAA members. I was already resigned to 
my fate1 was sure that after spending an 
hour discussing the various aspects of MAA 
I would know not much more than I al
ready did.
I already knew that MAA is an organiza
tion on campus, that they apparently dis
tribute MAA t-shirts, and that there seem 
to be a good number of members around.
But I now know a tremendous quantity 
of Maximum Facts, as MAAers would 
no doubt refer to these odds and ends of 
information Ive picked up. For instance, 
Ive learned that MAA is not subtle when 
they talk about their purpose, nor does 
their rhetoric wander. In fact, they seem to 
be rather single-minded and sincere about 
their raison d'etre. A portion of the inter
view follows:
I understand that MAA stands for 
Maximum Attention Area, is this not 
correct?
Partially. Mostly, though, we stand for 
Motherhood, Apple Pie, Decency, and Sex 
(but only in the dark).
Sex?
But only in the dark.
While were on the subject, how many 
women are in MAA?
We have a female Maximum of about 
40% of our membership.
Not bad for CMU...
Not only that, but we have represent
atives from every department!
Truly admirable, yes. So youre an
equal-opportunity organization?
Yes. But getting back to what MAA 
stands for:
Originally we thought of calling our
selves the Majority Assemblage for Inde
pendent Alpha-Centaurians; the only 
problem was that some people insisted on 
pronouncing the T in for and the i in 
independent, so we had to abandon the 
idea for various reasons I wont go into. 
I understand. I didnt understand at 
all. The interviewees attempted to Maxi
mize my understanding with a little histor
ical enlightenment.
MAA was founded by Loud Greg Tarsa 
at Freshman Camp two years ago, although 
there was little official activity until last 
year. MAA began as a Concept which 
quickly developed into an Occurance. 
Within a short span of time, there were de
finite signs of the MAA becoming a Groupof-People. But this term, MAA has blos
somed into a full-fledged Group-of-Peoplewith-an-Attitude. A Newsletter was pub
lished ten times last year and was sent to 
all members and posted in various places 
around campus. Chapters were started in 
Massachusetts (a civilian chapter), Seton 
Hill, and the Philadelphia area; the later is 
known as the Valley Forge chapterwhich 
does not explain why it is located in King 
of Prussia. The requirements for beginning 
a chapter are as follows: 1) There must be 
a sufficient number of interested members 
to form an MAA quorum (i.e., two), and 
2) One newsletter must be published. The 
ruling body of MAA (i.e., everyone) has 
met only one time, last year, and is still in 
session since the meeting was never ad
journed. There are currently 103 on*campus members and 40 off.
With this information as a basis for 
understanding, I felt a bit more at ease and 
proceeded with my original line of ques
Sept ebr2 0e,1r pe97V
Come in and meet some 
friends
2e eolum7pue21 8Srr Sr8Sr10Nr2p1
I2HMMIOO P.M. Sept. 20. 1977 
Level B in Margaret Morrison 
Military Science Dept.
TODAY 
ROTC OPEN HOUSE
tioning.
What is the purpose of MAA?
To be recognized.
As what?
By Student Senate. Then we can run 
our own Buggy, the Maxiumum Buggy. 
Can you tell me a bit of the folklore 
of MAA, and what you do as a group? 
Well, theres the MAA handshake. 
They demonstrated. The Secret MAA 
Handshake is performed by one member 
approaching the other with his right hand 
extended. Then, each member grasps the 
others hand in his own and shakes it.
In public, however, we use a normal 
handshake.
The Secret Handshake may be accom
panied by yelling, Im in MAA, are you? 
very loudly so as to attract as Maximum 
amount of Attention as possible. Practiced 
members can often cause the surroundings 
to become an Area of Maximum Attention. 
The yelling is sometimes dispensed with 
since it draws unnecessary attention to the 
Secret Handshake, which might then cease 
to be Secret and would have to be called 
simply, the Handshake, which is silly.
And dont forget MAA Intramural 
Volleyball. Last year we had a perfect 0-4 
record0 wins and 4 losses. We were unfeated.
Unfeated?
Yes. Thats the opposite of undefeated 
dont you know? This was partially due to 
the stirring MAA cheer: MAA! 
Is that it?
Well, the response cheer is, Hey! Look 
At Them!
What else?
Theres our honored tradition of ap
plying DQs to all new members. In fact, 
this is the very essence of MAA. Each 
member chooses a Dominant Quality. This 
helps members to learn each others names 
since, if they cant remember names, at 
least they can guess at a persons DQ, 
which often recalls the name by associa
tion.
For example, theres Loud Greg, Crazy 
Carl. Not Jeff, etc. Examples of other DQsWell
Typeset
include Bitchy, Indecisive, Musical, and 
Jock-Itch. DQs can only be changed by an 
Act of God or by breaking RSTS security 
where the DQs are duly recordedwhich
ever comes first.
Activities last year included going to see 
Handels Messiah at Heinz Hall, Christmas 
Parties (held periodically), helping out 
WQED TV during pledge week, and coming 
in second in the SDC Gong Show. The 
MAA had four Gazorching teams last 
spring: the Deluxe team, the Excelsior 
(which placed 1st and 2nd in distance), the 
Luxury (which placed 2nd in accuracy), 
and the Acme team.
How does one become a member of 
MAA? All you need to do is walk up to 
any MAA member during MAA Stroll 
(equivalent to Greek Rush), which starts 
January 1 and continues through to De
cember 31 of every numbered year, and 
answer these three questions: 1) What is 
you name? 2) Where are you from? 3) 
What is your Dominant Quality? (No need 
to specify Quest of Favorite Color).
A form can be obtained from Greg 
Tarsa to simplify the procedure and make 
it as painless as possible for initiates.
Skibo Desk gets
facelifting
by Belinda Quan
A steel door and doorframe has been 
recently erected, leading to the area 
behind the Skibo Information Desk.
When the Food Services Office re
located to the basement of Skibo, the 
Activities Board and Student Senate 
Offices were moved to the second floor 
above the Information desk. In order 
to go upstairs, students had to walk into 
the Skibo Information Office. Having 
students walking in and out at night, 
however, posed some security problems. 
So a new door was added to secure the 
Office.
Later this year, the old outer door, 
leading to the student offices, will be 
removed.
Your Resum
for S 750
*Prices may vary with exceptionally long or short resumes. This 
price is based on the average resume length.
Call 682-4557
TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

September 20, 1977TARTANPage 5
Gallery 
Begins Season
Se y1809t pP,UM
We at the Forbes Street Gallery would 
like to take this opportunity to welcome 
all new students and faculty at CMU. 
We also wish to thank all returning faculty 
and students for their enthusiastic sup
port of the gallery last year. And we give 
special thanks to all those who partic
ipated in our survey last May.
Responses to the survey was quite favor
able, and many new ideas were generated 
as a result. Implementation of some of 
these ideas has already begun:
Forbes Street Gallery T-shirts will be 
sold at the gallery.
The Back Room of the gallery will be 
used for group and individual shows 
which will change regularly and run 
concurrently with the larger exhibits.
A student-run catering service will 
be available for exhibitors who wish 
to use such a service at their openings.
A slide option will be available for all 
exhibitors who wish to make slides 
of their work for their portfolios. 
An effort will be made to display 
student art work in places other than 
the gallery, such as the art store or 
local banks.to provide additional ex
posure for the artists and the gallery. 
Sunday events will be scheduled regPR Redesigns
Calendar
Se n0,t1 ne019l
Beginning with the week of September 
12, the Campus Calendar sported a new, 
vivid look thanks to bolder headlines and 
a larger, flashier masthead.
The weekly publication, put out by the 
Public Relations Office, devised the new 
look in order to stimulate student interest 
in calendar events. In addition, the PR 
office hopes the modernized design will 
encourage more campus groups to use 
the calendar as a means of communication 
to the University community.
According to Micki Nugent, Assistant 
to the Director of Public Relations and a 
major contributor to the calendar, the ca
lendar was stodgy-looking and needed 
a change. The calendar has been printed in 
the same fashion since before 1974 (their 
office files only go back to 1974). The new 
headlines are catchy to the eye, says 
Nugent, and the new format allows a place 
for a mailing address sticker for subscri
bers off-campus.
h90lV1tr,Ue y8898 
The Publications Office first conceived 
of the change in appearance. Tom Kosak, 
a graphic designer who submitted the new 
headlines, said that his office experimented 
with design possibilities during the summer. 
Kosak and fellow designer Vicki Mauclair 
worked with different head-types before 
they and their boss, Tim Basinski, decided 
to use the present design.
The old design, explained Kosak.
SDC
continued from page 2
Following are some candidates running 
for SDC: Steve Montgomery, Ken Goldfarb, 
And Egbert DeVries, all from Hamerschlag; 
William Reiner, Abby Selman, and Rick 
Tucker, from Donner; Parviz Zadeh, Amy 
Boyle, Pete Wilcoxen, and Glen Riley, 
from E tower; Frances Roman and Karen 
Donovan, from Webster Hotel; and Stuart 
Freedman,Steve Wigman, Tom Vries, Joel 
Bauman, and Jim Balsom, from the Hill 
dorms.
The polls will be located in Morewood 
and Donner lobbies, and will be open 
between noon and 9 o clock on tomorrow 
and Thursday.
ularly at the gallery. These will be devo
ted to art forms other than visual, such 
as poetry readings, music and mime per
formances.
Two shows have already been sched
uled to begin this year. The first is the 
Annual Art Exhibit, opening on September 
27 at 7:00 p.m. and running through 
October 9. The show will feature works 
by local artists who have graduated from 
CMU in Art, Printmaking, Design, Arch
itecture, and Theater Design, and will 
provide students with the chance to see 
varied and professional work. It will also 
enable some students to talk to graduates 
in their fiel,d since many of the artists 
will be present at the opening.
Following this, the Forbes Street Gal
lery invites all students, regardless of their 
department or year, to submit work to the 
Crafts and Printmaking Show, which will 
open on October 11 and run through the 
23.
Announcements of other exhibits will 
be available at the first opening and at the 
gallery and the Skibo Information Desk 
thereafter. If you have any questions 
in the meantime, stop in or leave a note at 
either the gallery or the Skibo Desk.
Gallery hours are Tuesday-Sunday, 
12:004:00 P.M., and Tuesday-Thursday 
evenings, 7:00-9:00 P.M.
Andrea Smith is on the staff of the 
Forbes Street Gallery. Watch for addition
al gallery information in the Tartan. Gal
lery newsletters will be available period
ically.
just seemed to get the job done and tell 
people what went on. The new design adds 
personality to the paper so that people will 
pick it up and look at it.
Before printing calendars with the new 
logo, the designers had to make sure that 
the new headlines would not pose any 
problems. We were wondering if the new 
masthead would lengthen the drying time 
of the ink, explained Kosak. But there 
was no trouble with the ink and the change 
was made.
Gathering the information for the 
Campus Calendar has been done in the 
past by Mary Ann Dwyer, who until this 
week had the task of calling both oncampus and off-campus organizations to 
find out about meeting dates, art exhibits, 
lectures, and other planned events. Just 
this last week, Mary Ann quit her job 
because of a schedule conflict.
The Campus Calendar is distributed 
around campus by APhiO, and can be found 
in Skibo, Warner Hall, and in most aca
demic halls.
Scatter System
continued frompage 3
obvious. The triple turnstyles should 
discourage the formation of lines.
Food Service is too busy at this time 
to have someone out in the service area 
to direct traffic. An explanatory sign 
might be a good idea, Eichmuller ad
mitted.
The sandwich station appears to be get
ting little business, and Eichmuller agreed 
that this was so. They had expected 
to be making 300 sandwiches per day 
but are only making about half that.
The vegetarian meals at Morewood also 
do not seem to be very popular. Food 
Service intends to push the vegi meals 
soon through TARTAN advertising and 
other publicity. These meals are planned 
by Food Services resident dietician, 
Cindy Jumba, and are nutritious while 
excluding all animal products.
When asked about prices at the Grill, 
Eichmuller said that the $1.85 allowance 
to contract holders is as much as they 
can handle now; it has risen from last 
years $1.75 only to keep up with Grill 
price changes. There will be no further 
price changes in the Grill until at least 
January.
Senate Meets 
Officially
Se m,18t 79tN
The recent Senate meeting was like 
John Wilkes Booth. This isnt to say that 
neither of them have any fans, but rather 
that they just werent in attendance. 
Senate is definitely having a problem 
holding formal meetings, because several 
of last years conscientious senators have 
graduated, transferred, or otherwise not 
returned to Carnegie-Mellon. It is un
fortunate when an organization cannot 
operate to its fullest because too few of 
its members are present to carry a voting 
quorum.
The September 12 meeting at first ap
peared to be a repetition of the previous 
one, with Steve Belanich, Vice Chair
person, informing the floor that the meet
ing would be informal because the quo
rum number was shy by one. When a 
senator walked in while the informal 
session was in progress, Senate Secretary 
Gael Schaefer then noted the commence
ment of Senates first official meeting of 
the school year.
Dean Swank initiated discussion by 
introducing the traditional proposal re
quiring Senate to assemble a committee to 
organize a Central Blood Bank drive, to be 
held during the second week of November. 
Senate was responsible for a similar drive 
last year, with impressive results.
The dean reminded Senate of the neces
sity to vote on rescheduling the Spring 
Carnival date. Those who worried about 
having to spend Passover at a booth at 
Carnival can now rest assured; the date 
has been changed to the weekend of 
April 7. However, the Educational Affairs 
Committee of Faculty Senate must ap
prove this date before an official University 
announcement is made.
John Lubon, President, asked for 
Senates approval of students he had 
appointed to four Trustee committees. 
Senate unanimously approved the follow
ing: Jim Gasbarro (Junior), to the Edu
cational Affairs Committee; Ken Meinert 
(Senior) to Developement and Planning; 
Doug Konopka (Senior), to the Finance 
Committee; and Patricia Bruckman (Fresh
man), to Student Affairs. Lubon also 
announced the nomination of the follow
ing people to the Disciplinary Committee, 
which consists of a student from each 
College; Sherry Costello will represent 
CIT; Bill Lacava, AMS; and Julian Singer, 
H & SS. MIS and CFA representatives will 
be chosen at a later date.
The sole commiittee report was given by 
Ken Meinert, Rules Committee Head, who 
announced that his committee will attend 
the September 18 meeting of the Hispanic 
Club in order to investigate organizational 
problems they have been having.
Senate adjourned, recommending a 
check with registrar on the status of their 
members to prevent any senator from usur
ping a seat. Senate wants to be certain 
that only four vacancies have yet to be 
filled.
Linda Deak is a member of Student Senate.
the
tartan
needs
workers
The Student Employment 
Service places CMU students 
in part time obs off campus
Jobs like:  babysitting
 landscaping
 house cleaaing
 bartenders
 waitresses
 tutoring
 music lessons
 carpentry
 TV & radio repair
 Computer programming
are available. There is absolutely no 
cost to you! Just sign up at our office 
58 <tSkibo this Thursday and Friday 
from 9 A.M. - 3 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTAN September 20, 1977
Classification of Fire
Bob Anderegg, the author of this column, 
is the safety Coordinator of the Campus 
Security Office.
Fire can be classified according to the 
type of material which is burning, or is in 
the immediate vicinity of the flame. 
The classes of fire, the designating symbols 
used on appropriate fire fighting appara
tus, and the types of material supplying 
fuel to these fires appear below:
CLASS SYMBOL
A The Letter A on a green triangle
B The letter B on a red square
C The letter C on a blue sphere
D The letter D on a gold/yellow star
5M9 f0Vf90 bl9 VR R,09 9dU,1ob,lM90l t18 
9dU,1ob,l,1o to91Ul
It is important that everyone has some 
knowledge regarding the safe and proper 
use of fire equipment. Certaing types of 
extinguishing agents are effective only on 
certain classes of fire. The following lists, 
according to their contents, the currently 
available types of fire extinguishers, the 
classes of fire on which they may be safely 
employed, and directions for their use.
The extinguisher types marked with an 
asterisk (*) are no longer manufactured, 
but may still be serviced.
utU90 b1890 f09llb09F (Use on Class A 
fires only).
Directions for use: Pull out locking pin, 
then squeeze the handle to release the 
spray.
Fire attack: Direct spray around and across 
the base of the fire, not toward the 
smoke. Use a sweeping motion from the 
edges toward the center. If a fine spray 
is desired, deflect the straight stream 
with your thumb. Make certain that 
all hot spots are thoroughly soaked. 
Caution: Do not use any straight stream 
extinguisher, i.e., water under pres
sure, soda acid, pump tank, or car
tridge operated types on Class B or 
Class C Fires. A straight stream will 
cause burning liquids (Class B) to 
spread, while live electrical current 
(Class C) may travel up the stream, since 
water itself is a conductor of electricity.
cpV8t y-,8F (Use on Class A fires only) 
Directions for use: Invert the container,
Save on Calculators
k9Jr9UUht-Nt08
Model
HP 67 224 programmable steps 
HP 19C comb SC/Jl printer 
HP 29C comb 2SC/27 features 
HP 25 Scient prog 
HP 22 Real Estate Bus
Your Cost Model
S3S7 95 HP 97 224 proo steps/Printing274 95 HP 92 F man Bonds Banking ptr154 95 HP 25C Scient /Retains memory99 50 HP 27 Comb Bus/Scient99 50 HP 80 Powerful R E 'Bus 'Bankiiu
HP 55 49 step prog Soem Was 1335 139 95 HP 91 pnm HP45 specs Sc.ent
HP 21 Slide rule Sciei
Your Cosi $596 95 496 95 127 95 136 95 234 95 259 9563 90 HP 10 Handheld AC OC printer mem 138 95
We are an HP franchised dealer We carry all accessories at a discount 
We will beat any pnce Each unit comes complete including charger cast 
and manuals One year warranty by HP
59dtl g1lU0bP91Ul
VourModel Your Cost Model
Tl 59 960 prog steps 100 mems S225 95 Tl 58 480 prog steps 60 mems
PC100A print compatible 59 58 52 56 146 95 Tl 57 150 program steps Scient
SR 40 Scient slide rule 
SR 56 100 step prog 
Tl 1750 thm waNet type/2M Hrs'lCO 
Money Manager R'E Finance 
SR 52 Recycled/Guaranteed by Tl 
Tl 5050M Ac DC printer/Mem 
Tl 5015 Printer desk type 
Tl 1600 Instant Replay calcs 
Tl 5100 desk top digital mem 
libraries 10 Tl 59 58
24 95 SR 52 2 SP super soem con*79 95 Tl 30 Scent slide rule19 95 Business Analyst R/E Finance 18 95 Data Clip 1000 Hrs pencil thm ICO 159 50 Tl 2550 3 Bus wth mem 83 96 Tl 5040 Oesk pnnter/disp mem 64 95 MBA Super Bus Analyst25 95 Little Prof lor kids 5 up educ43 95 Oata Man (Big Prof I educ great 29 00
Vour Cost 
S 97 95 63 95 48 95 1795 28 95 28 95 25 95 98 95 67 95 12 95 21 95
We cany all Tl accessories at discount pnces
pf9-,trl
Modei Your Cost
Norelco new model NT I $177 00
Norelco #95 Dictating unit 149 00
Norelco #185 Oictatmg unit 107 00
Norelco #88 Oictatmg unit 255 00
Norelco 97 Transc or Diet unit 309 00
Norelco 186 Transcriber 265 00
Norelco #98 Transc or Diet unit 41900 
Norelco Cassettes 30 minutes 2 95
Craig Elect Notebook Oict 149 00
Cr9 2706 Oicf/Transc 189 50
Sony M 10IC thn diet unit 154 95
Pearlcorder diet unit byOlympus 179 00 up
Smith Corona elee 2200 239 50
Model Yuur Cost
Olympus 1 500 Transc rompat with S319 95 
Sony M 101 inaier MC60 Panasonic etc 
Teias Inst LEO watches five funrt 9 9b up 
Hughes Aircraft Cafe Watch mem 8 dig 125 00 
Chronograph 15 func 10th 100th sec LEO 49 9b
Chronograph 15 func ICO10th, 100th 5995
Elect Black Jack/calc progr game 39 95
Elect Progr Chess Game piay alone 199 9b
Elect Progr Backgammon Game 199 9b
play alone
PhoneMate CodeA Phone RecordACaii can us 3M Ory Photocopier great unit mewl 79 95
APF punier, disp 27 step prog 119 95
Try Coffee Pius and you *ill buy it agam Case of 24 one pound c 
Si 79 per can or su pack at Si 99 per (an 
Freight prepaid within continental USA on Coffee Plus
Wt carry Royal Olivetti. Litton. Amana uovds Commoiure On.!** Snarp 
Canon Panasonic Sony RCA Zen.th TV s JVC Sanyo Ba<iv Hy Ga. etc
Pnces are f o b lA Goods subiet to availability Ask for our famous catalog 
We will beat any pnce if the rompetition hjs the goods on hano 
Add S3 00 lor shipping hand held calculators CA residents add 6% sales tax
spray will be chemically released.
Fire attack: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDER PRESSURE.
Caution: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDER PRESSURE.
hbPf 5t1NF (Water)
Directions for use: Pump the handle at the 
top of the tank up and down, this will 
release the spray. On back-pack type 
units, the pump is located at the nozzle.
MATERIAL 
Wood, Paper, Textiles, etc.
Flammable liquids, Oil, Gasoline, etc. 
In or Near live electrical current. 
Combustible Metals, Magnesium, 
Sodium, etc.
Fire attack: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDER PRESSURE.
Caution: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDER PRESSURE.
T2t0U0,8o9 Af90tU98F (Soda Acid) (Use
on Class A Fires only)
Directions for use: Invert the extinguisher 
and bump it on the floor; the spray will 
be chemically discharged.
Fire attack: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDERPRESSURE.
Caution: Identical to that of WATER 
UNDERPRESSURE.
c"VtPF (Use on Class A and Class B fires
only)
Directions for use: Carry the container up
right until you are in position to use it. 
Turn the extinguisher upside down to 
release the charge.
Fire attack: Curve the foam discharge up
ward so that it falls lightly, forming a 
blanket on the Fires surface. Do not 
splash the fire.
or ...
Direct the discharge at the floor or a 
wall in a manner which will allow the 
foam to spread naturally onto the fire. 
Move around while applying the foam 
Caution: While foam can be employed on 
Class A fires, a careful soaking of hot 
spots should be performed to reduce 
.the possibility of rebuming.
2t0SV1 7,Vd,89D 2A2F (Use on Class B 
and Class C fires only)
Directions for use: Pull out locking pin, 
then open valve or squeeze handle to 
discharge.
Fire attack: This is a close range extingui
sher. Slowly sweep the discharge across 
the Fire front to push the flames back. 
Continue to sweep after knockdown. 
Watch for any signs of a reflash.
Caution: On Class C fires, disconnect any 
electrical power sources affected as soon 
as possible.
70e 2M9P,-trF (Use on Class B and Class C 
fires)
Directions for use: Pull out locking pin and 
press lever to discharge.
Fire attack: Move the nozzle rapidly to 
make a smothering cloud across the 
entire fire front. The discharge should 
begin from about 8 to 10 feet away 
from the fire front. You will have 
limited time, so be as effective as you 
can when aiming the discharge. Con
tinue discharge after knowekdown. 
Caution: Although this extinguishing agent 
may be mistakently employed on Class 
A fires, its effectiveness might depend 
upon the size of the fire.
EbrU,fb0fVl9 2M9P,-trF (May be used on 
Class A, B, and C fires)
Directions for use: Pull out the locking pin 
and press lever to discharge.
Fire attack: Identical to that of DRY 
CHEMICAL.
Caution: All Class A Fires should be im
mediately water woaked after knock
down.
pf9-,tr 2VPfVb18lF (for use on Class D
fires)
Directions for use: Extinguisher-Pull out 
locking pin, press the lever, then 
squeeze the nozzle to discharge.
Standing bins or containersApply 
directly to the burning metal with a 
scoop or shovel.
Fire attack: Completely blanket the bur
ning material with the compound. Take 
care to make certain that any material 
which may have splashed onto walls 
and other surfaces is also covered tho
roughly with the SPECIAL COM
POUND.
Caution: Dry sand has, in the past, been 
recommended as an extinguishing agent 
for Sodium fires, Most sand, however, 
is seldom completely dry. Burning metal 
reacting with the moisture in the sand 
not only produce steam, but, under cer
tain conditions, may produce an explo
sive metal-water reaction. Highly recom
mended extinguishing agents for com
bustible metal fires are Pyrene G1 
powder, and Met-L-X powder. Com
paring the two recommended com
pounds for extinguishment of Sodium 
fires, Met-L-X powder appears to be the 
more favorable of the two since it also 
extinguishes burning sodium which has 
been sprayed onto vertical surfaces, 
which Pyrene G1 powder is inef
fective under such conditions. v
Today is the first day 
of the rest of your life.Give blood
so it can be the first day of somebody elses, too.
*
Red Cross. The Good Neighbor.
A Public Service of this newspaper & The Advertising Councilr Olympic SAICS company inc^WB?16 South Oato'd Ave PO Bo 7454b 
I io CA 90004 i?13l 381 3911  T(*. 6? 34?; ^

---------------------------------------------------

This is the semester to get yourprogrammable.
The TI-57. 
Its self-teaching 
system gets you 
programming 
fast.
Tl Programmable 57
J? MS
URN
Psuso tr>a e*c
SST STO RCL
nto(Tkiking Tracks to Programming
A fcv JloWw.Tl Programmable 57. The powerful
superslide rule calculator you can program 
right from the keyboard. Comes with an easyto-follow, self-teaching learning guide-over 
200 pages of step-by-step instructions and ex
amples. Quickly learn the value of making re
petitive calculations at the touch of a key. 
Recall entire instruction sequences. Display 
intermediate results at any point in a calcula
tion. Eight multi-use memories provide ad
dressable locations to store and recall data. Program memory 
stores up to 150 keystrokes (50 program steps). Editing too:
Singlestep. Backstep. Insert or delete at ____
any point in a program. Also a powerful 
slide rule calculator with logs, trig func
tions and advanced statistics routines.7995
The TI-58 and TI-59 combine three major inno
vations to bring the power of programming to 
you even if youve never programmed before:
1. Extraordinarily powerful at remarkable low prices.
2. Revolutionary plug-in modules put complex formulas to work 
at the touch of a key.
3. Step-by-step learning guide that takes you from the basics of 
programming through advanced programmingslanguage you 
can understand.
Tl Programmable 58. up to 480 program 
steps, or up to 60 memories. Master Library 
module contains 25 prewritten programs in 
math, engineering, statistics and finance. Also 
increases number of steps - up to 5000. Library 
programs may also be addressed from the key
board or inserted as subroutines. Can also be 
used with Tls new 
PC-100A printer/plotter. It lets you plot, 
print headings and prompt-messages.
Tl Programmable 59. More powerful than the TI-58. Up to 
960 program steps or up to 100 memories. Magnetic cards store 
up to 960 steps. And, record and pro
tect custom programs. Also 10 user 
flags. 6 levels of subroutines. 4 types 
of branches. Mm
Optional Libraries. Applied Statistics, Surveying, Real 
Estate/Finance, Aviation, Marine Navigation. $35.00* each.
124
95
f&ATKiA AOOmOH AmUU&UU& QH
I AaCOw
f ABC0E
OSCP
fStNVInxCGO
P^mp-nminoomtan !
LRNx%t' X3'VxV
InCM.ExcPrdod
SSTSTORCLSUMy*
0.1SngR*tntu
B$TEEr<' >m
PueNopOpDo
QTOno as
LOI*t1+Rad
S8RwammmmB
at 9HO MSTTGrad
RSDQEIil
Dm*AdvPrtu*t
R/SaaoQ
Tt Programmable 68Sofcd State Software
The Tl 58 and 59. 
Both use 
revolutionary 
plug-in 
Solid State 
Software" 
libraries.
FREE.
When you buy a Tl Programmable 58 
or 59 you can get this 19-program 
Leisure Library.
A $35.00 value if you act now.
Football Predictor. Forecast score, point spread. Bowling Scorekeeper. Track 90 bowlers. Golf Handicapper. Up
date handicap from latest rounds score Bridge. Computes 
points from tricks made and bid. U.S. Chess Federation Rankings. Wins, losses, draws Codebreaker. 3,024 possi
ble codes make this a unique challenge Black Jack. Acey Ducey. Craps. Mars Lander. Pilot to a safe landing Jive Turkey. Guess mystery number-tells you if you're high 
or low-but is it jiving you? Nim. Play the machine, each 
time it gets better Sea Battle. 15 missiles to sink sub. Quarterback. Call plays. Photo 1. Compensate for change 
in photo enlargement magnification Photo II: Flll-in-flash. 
Computes correct lens f-stop in strong ambient light. Use 
it with a PC-100A and have even more fun Computer Art. Hangman. Put in a word, second player guesses or hangs. Memo Pad. Write, enter messages Print and record them 
on 59 s mag card Use the card to replay the message Biorythm. Plots all three cycles.
Ubrory
Leisure Library comes with: Plug-in module. Library manual. Quick reference guide Label cards. Library wallet.
CaOffer good from August 15 to October 31, 1977. Here's
what you do. Fill out this coupon Return it to Tl with your 
serialized Customer Information Card (packed in the box), 
along with a copy of a dated proof of purchase showing 
the serial number Important. Your envelope must be 
postmarked no later than October 31,1977.
Leisure Library Offer
P.O Box53, Lubbock, Texas 79408
Name
Address
City___
StateZip
(from back of calculator)
l_
Tl 58 or 59 Serial Number ------------------------------------------1
Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries ot equal value based on availability 
Please allow 30 days tor delivery Otter void where prohibited by law Good in continental U S only
'Suggested retail price.
01977 Texas Instruments IncorporatedAWins tosChurWoCs
INCORPORATED

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Obligation
Many times we hear that poetry is dead, that the theater is 
dying, and that television is corrupting American youth 
because of the emptiness of its content. In other words, 
"culture" and "art" (the more creative and emotional pro
ducts of our society and its history) is doomed. A reason 
given for this is that the interest, in what we call the arts, has 
begun to disappear. This is logical, since it is easier to occupy 
our time watching Starsky and Hutch than by reading 
Shakespeare. The question that then arises is, does the 
individual have an obligation to knowledge?
I say knowledge, rather than culture or the deepness of 
art, because what is really developing around us is a society 
of specialization. Critisism can not be thrown at the more 
technically minded, and their lack of response to the relaxa
tion and softness within creativity, without recognizing 
the similar trait that exists within most individuals who call 
themselves "artists", ignoring the qualities of structured 
actions which result from logical thinking rather than emo
tions.
There certainly exists the obligation for us to meet certain 
criteria before we can function sucessfully within society. 
This includes at least a high school education and often a 
college degree, but institutionalized learning is not without 
its limitations. As a result, there is an ever growing responsi
bility upon us to seek education outside of the classroom on 
our own. This responsibility is what begins to make up the 
obligation to knowledge. But the obligation may exist for 
more basic reasons. First, there is the individual and the 
external, how we are able to deal with other people. Our 
society is complex, there are many different aspects which 
make it up. To deal with society we have to have, at the very 
least, a basic understanding of it. An understanding of how it 
functions; what it provides, and why it produces. An under
standing of the technical, the creative, the aspects of society. 
It is as the "full" person that we know society well enough 
that we then have the greatest understanding of ourselves and 
our place within it.
The second reason is the understanding we may or may 
not have of ourselves as individuals. We are exposed to a 
limited amount of the world in a life time. Immediately 
ignoring any part of it does not allow one to make a judge
ment on the the importance it may have for you. This is as 
true for the writings of Joyce and Whitman as it is for the 
work of Goddard and Von Braun. Through understanding 
their influence upon society, we can find out what society 
has for us as well as what we may have for society. There 
exists the obligation to knowledge so long as there exists the 
importance for us to understand what kind of individuals 
iwe are.
Time to Say Goodbye
When I was younger, there were a few things my father 
used to impress upon me. They were instructions that I was 
to use as I became a man. Included in this listing were that I 
could always trust my family if I needed them and that 
college was a necessity. The one bit of advice that I'd consi
dered most important, however, was the responsibility I have 
to myself and the need, therefore, to act as an individual.
This meant many things. One was that if was important to 
become a professional in whatever I was going to choose as 
a livelihood, this would allow me the freedom of not having 
to take orders from someone else. This was crucial to my 
father and he stressed it many times, probably because he 
was in the position where he had to answer to someone and 
as a result had to cope with such inconveniences as having to 
commute two hours to work.He felt his life was not his own, 
and he would talk to me with the hope that I would not be 
trapped. To act as an individual also had the promise that I 
would be happy with my life and what I was doing with it. It 
meant that as a member of society I was to take advantage 
of it and not letting it take advantage of me. It meant that 
some things were going to be important and some were not, 
and I had to develop to the point where I knew what was 
best for me. That as I grew up and came across new situa
tions, there would be a time to approach and get involved 
with them and there would be a time to say good-bye.
vc.. ftavidCa.-Roussos,
Acting Editor-in-Chief
Carou
1 loT^LT
iew variable introduced in! 
fed by farmers; (p/p)-i is lj 
>rices received by farmers 
p-28) in the equivalent forii
81.250 -f 0.556
jeen that the supply of foodl 
jand 1941 was positively relj 
irs received. This market si
IV -**]
JJ: I! 1 / . ! 1  ! 1 /^j 1
I */ / 6 1
N10  \ Ix/ 1 / ! \\ * 1 \ . I j\ / \I  1\ 9 / /\ / / :V / /, 1.1 \ ' ' \ i J\  / 
se lM. * i *_ze_
Phr
i
-<5
Letters
We Stand On Our Record
Editor:
I would just like to set some
thing straight about last weeks 
Morewood Gardens Desk article. 
In that article, officials said 
they consulted SDC on the re
moval of full service. I want 
to take this time to inform 
the campus that those officials 
are lying. I was told about the 
new Desk policy in late August, 
but I was not consulted. I was 
told, to paraphrase, this is the 
way it is; we know whats good 
for the University and we dont 
even need your opinion. I 
think the officials of last weeks 
article were simply utilizing the 
typical CMU Administration pol
icy of using student committees, 
sometimes token in nature, to 
justify their unjust acts.
Sam Grego 
President-SDC
What's All The Crying About 
Editor:
If the closing of Morewood 
Desk means inconvenience in 
locating phone or room numbers, 
then students, who are constantly 
around the desk, can aid each 
other in simple matters by an
swering a telephone and giving 
necessary information provided 
if housing made ample material 
accessible at the desk.
Residents of Morewood
P.S. How about a key to open the 
door to A tower, shouldnt stu
dents have it?
Saturday Night And I Ain't 
Got Nobody
Editor:
I would like to applaud the 
freshman girl whose letter to the 
editor appeared in last weeks Tar
tan. In it, she wrote that students 
who drink ought to be severely
punished. I agree wholeheartedly. 
Its about time we of the nerd 
community here at CMU united 
to wipe out the students fun. I 
recommend that anyone caught 
drinking should immediately be 
tortured and dismembered.
I too, am from a small conserva
tive town-Dullsville, Upper Al
bania, and we also found fun 
things to do besides drinking or 
getting high. Often, on Friday 
or Saturday night we would get a 
small group of people together to 
go down to Dullsvilles main inter
section. There we would watch 
the towns only traffic light 
change from red to yellow to 
green to yellow, and so on. An 
additional thrill came at 11 PM. 
when the light changed to blink
ing red for the remainder of the 
night. Chills used to run up and 
down my spine when that hap
pened.
As she said, I cant imagine why 
anyone would put their mind 
and body through such self 
abuse-and still seem to enjoy it 
so. Why dont they do something 
fun like lock themselves in their
TARTAN
Volume 78September 20, 1977Number 3
Acting Editor-in-Chief:David G. Roussos
News Editor:Sherry Siegel
Folio Editor:Jeff Zaslow
Entertainment Fditor:Casey Childs
Sports Editor:Tom Binnie
Photography Editor:VRV Ramanan
Editorial Assistant: Amy Boyle
Production Head: Vivian Kerstein
Production Staff: Lynn Abell, Tom Brown, John Czarnecki, Fred Fargotstein, John Fong, Linda Held,
Naomi Kornhauser, Beverly Marshall, Belinda Quan, Scott Pollack, Judy Prober, Anne Prochaska, Brenda
Reed, Gary Walzer, Tim Wenk
Photography Staff: Mike Bergman, John Fong, Mark Sega
Skip Brazelton, Pete Dickey, Gregg Lebowitz, George Lecomte, Steve Salagaller
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo50, (412) 621- 
2600ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices : Skibo 52. (412) 682-4557. * ^ Ct
-------------------------------~ . ALL RIGHTS. RESERVED...,________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

September 20, 1977 -TARTANPage 9
more Letters
rooms and study, or pull an allnighter, or nerd out at the lib
rary?
As for loving a man only when 
he is in complete control of him
self, well I generally try and avoid 
loving men regardless of what 
state they are in. But as for 
^/omen, well I dont mind if they 
are drunk or high or even if they 
lose control completely, they can 
come visit me anytime at Doherty 
House. Somehow Ill manage to 
suffer through the foul stench 
of liquor on their breath.
Chris Wilson 81
 I Want To Party With The 
People
Editor:
I think that students who never 
get drunk or high should be shot. 
As a freshman with, if I do say so 
myself, a lot of experience in the 
areas of self-abuse I was am
azed at the way a lot of my fellow 
'freshmen and upperclassmen 
stayed in their rooms and did 
their homework while I partied 
the weekend before last.
We are at CMU to learn, but 
mostly to get smashed and allow 
our minds and bodies to be des
troyed. Right?? While I was at 
a frat party, I came up to a chick 
ind asked her to dance. She just 
*laughted at me. Who does she 
think she is anyway, MISS PER
FECT??
I went to high school in a small, 
suburban, conservative town, yet 
we found fun things to do besides 
thinking and getting good grades.
Frankly, I can only dig a chick 
who really knows how to get 
wrecked. Know what I mean??
Steve Dore
Crys From The Outside 
Editor:
Im writing in regard to Mr. 
Kanners letter that appeared in 
the September 6 Tartan.
Mr. Kanners remark about 
being treated as a second-class
citizen as a student reflects his 
naivete. In the fall of 1974 I 
quit a clerical position with Bell 
Telephone to complete my educa
tion at C-MU. My son was not 
quite two years old at the time. 
Id always enjoyed writing and so 
my choice of english as a major 
wasI thought, only natural. Al
though the resentment of many 
doctors, dentists and other health 
care professionals over having to 
treat welfare recipients was never 
far below the surface, my family 
and I received adequate health 
care services during the two years 
I was a student at C-MU. Paying 
for food with food stamps too 
quite often initiated a variety of 
crude or insulting remarks from 
grocery clerks; however only in a 
few isolated instances were we 
denied using stamps to purchase 
food because of a store managers 
whim. And I think that it is safe 
to assume that the majority of 
students at C-MU have adequate 
health care, food and housing 
services available to them. Only 
after graduation did I begin to 
understand the implications of 
being without money or employ
ment in todays society; only 
after graduation did I encounter 
a hospital that refused my wife 
emergency treatment for an acute 
kidney and bladder infection be
cause I didnt have the money or 
insurance to pay for the service.
In America today the worth of 
the individual is entirely depend
ent on his or her capacity to pro
duce or consume goods or ser
vices; for this reason, the lives of 
the old, infirm or the very young 
are not of much consequence. To 
walk through a large supermarket 
of employment, is to be trans
formed into a non-person, a shad
ow. Many writers including 
Arthur Koestler and Hannah 
Arendt have described this exper
ience as more devastating than 
physical death. One can only 
guess at the sort of frustration 
that a black, elderly or crippled 
individual must feel in todays
society.
In response to Mr. Kanners 
summation of an H&SS educa
tion, I am not aware of any en
deavor-academic or professional, 
that yields any benefit if one 
merely sits on his rump and does 
as little work as possible. Mr. 
Kanners remark suggests that a 
university education-like any 
number of other commodities 
available to select Americans, is 
something that panders to an ap
petite, is bought, consumed and 
discarded at will; his displeasure 
seems that of an irate consumer.
Perhaps Mr. Kanner should con
sider attending a trade school 
where he could be trained for a 
specific tasksay shoe repair, then 
released into a handy societal 
slot upon graduation. In the year 
and a half since my graduation 
Ive held a number of jobs includ
ing janitor, carpenter, laborer, and 
most recently milkman. Within a 
six month period of job hunting, 
I learned that the hope of finding 
work that I was either interested 
in or qualified for was an unrea
sonable expectation; I can only 
imagine the bitterness of some of 
my former teachers at C-MU 
some of whom have had a pro
found impact on my life, now 
tending bar or simply unem
ployed. Ive yet to feel cheated by 
my education and I submit to Mr. 
Kanner that the university is not 
the institution at fault for his 
anxiety.
In a larger sense, something 
indeed has gone wrong; I urge Mr. 
Kanner to increase his awareness 
of the popular beliefs, attitudes 
and failing social institutions that 
have contributed to our present 
state of social decay.
Member graduating class of 1976
Reducto Ad Absurdum 
Editor:
This is a belated response 
to the Kanner letter published 
in issue no. 1 implying (threat
ening? promising? hypothesizing?) 
suit for contractual breach forr
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
failure to educate. I can appre
ciate the students dismay (after 
multiple years liberal arts educa
tion) at not being qualified for 
any meaningful employment. I 
can also empathize with the 
feeling that some of the course 
work was a waste of time - for 
him. However, it may not be 
appropriate to lay all or any 
blame on the teacher, Dr. Cyert or 
the University as a whole. In fact, 
the letter published is almost an 
argument by REDUCTO AD 
ABSURDUM for the sole respon
sibility of the student for educa
tion.
Let us examine the types 
of learning that can take place 
in a University. There is no 
schooling - rote learning - for 
the memory implantation of in
formation sets like multiplication 
tables, periodic charts, and the 
like. Unfortunately, to some, this 
is all of education. There is also 
training - that is, the learning of 
specific motor or manual skills - 
which can be important on the 
athletic field, the dance floor or in 
the laboratory. Even so, this is 
not yet all of learning well. For 
lack of a better term, the last type 
of learning can be called educa
tion where there are implications 
of scholarship, driving curiosity 
and integrative ability - wherein 
the person may be internally 
driven to see a question and from 
study, experience and thought, 
derive a new answer. But this 
requires an internal ambition to 
look for the question and ways 
to synthesize an answer (or 
set of answers). How does the 
teacher, the faculty adviser or 
even Dr. Cyert endow the stu
dent with such an internal driving 
force? By example? Most stu
dents dont look closely enough 
to see the example. They want to 
pass, to get by, to get a C or an 
A. Unfortunately, none of these 
wants endows them with an 
education. But apathy is a hor
rendous hurdle. Enthusiam is 
infectuous, but only to the wide 
awake observer.
In short, I cant believe theres 
a legal, moral or logical leg to
stand on for the pro posedstu
dent suit of CMU.
R.D Athey Jr., Director 
Coatings and Surfaces Technology
"Knowing Their Place" 
Editor:
As a woman attending CMU, I 
was truly horrified and dismayed 
by the lack of intelligence, and 
the narrowmindedness displayed 
by my co-ed name withheld 
upon request.
Poor soul! Hes...already 
given up on the good looking 
girls. Theyre taken.... To this,
I wonder what he thinks women 
are, pocessions in a meat market 
to be taken for the f.incy of 
men?
In response to Theyre be
coming as snobbish and taken as 
the good looking ones!? in 
which he is referring to the not 
so nice looking girls, I have this 
to say to him. Every woman has a 
right to assert herself as an indi
vidual with a mind, feelings and 
needs. One woman should not 
feel inferior to another, or be less 
proud because of a lack of phys
ical beauty, which is only transi
tory anyway.
I feel sorry for you, sir, and all 
others like you if beauty is your 
only criterion for distinguishing 
one woman from another. I per
sonally feel that you have nerve to 
write, and even think that The 
average girls on CMU campus 
have become as self-assured and 
arrogant as the cream of the 
crop. It isnt the 1950s, its the 
1970s! All women should be as
serting themselves, this is their 
right as human beings.
I resent strongly your encour
aging girls to behave as humbly 
as their place and class in society 
dictates. If society depended 
on people like you, slavery would 
.still be in existence, and Blacks, 
Women, Indians, Orientals, and all 
lesser human beings would still 
know their place.
Andrea Beizer
TARTAN ELECTION
On Wednesday, September 21, 1977 at 7:30 p.m. .in Room 11 Skibo, the 
TARTAN will hold an election for the position of Editor-in-Chief.
Candidates must be members of the TARTAN staff. A member of the TARTAN 
staff is any one who has written two articles in the last four issues of the TARTAN, or 
anyone whose name is listed in the masthead. Only members of the TARTAN staff are 
eligible to vote.
Those interested should inquire at the TARTAN offices, Skibo 50, 51, or 52.
NOTE: The election was previously announced to take place on September 14, 
which was incorrect.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSX. Cl ASSIFIFD ADS
7sy7mgwsF wAAw us7wsp7y?W
2rtll,R,98 0tU9F $.C// RV0 9i90e . JV08lC
y11Vb1-9P91Ul t09 "assC
general
5M9 p4C k,rr hV9U0e uV0NlMVf t11Vb1-9l
the opening of its fall and winter sessions. 
Meetings are held at the Sq. Hill Branch of 
Carnegie Library, cor. Forbes and Murray 
Aves., at 1:30 p.m. Opening session will be 
Saturday, September 24th and continue 
alternate Saturdays. Regular meetings 
will periodically include readings of other 
local poets. For further information, call 
521-1540.
a9P9PS90 St-N UV JM91 eVb J909 t
high school senior looking at colleges? You 
probably could have used some help from 
an older and much wiser college student. 
The Admissions Office is asking pro
spective students to visit the campus for 
a "Sleeping Bag Campaign. These 
students will be exploring the campus, its 
faculty, and its students. We'd like you to 
help by offering your dorm floor, time, 
and conversation. Drop in to Admissions, 
Warner Hall, first floor, to volunteer. The 
dates are October 3, 4, and 23, 24, and 
November 13, 14, and 20, 21.
5M909 J,rr S9 t r9-Ub09 l90,9l V1 p5ax2!
TURE and FORM. The dates of the 
lectures are: Wednesday 28, 8:00, .7500
SCIENCE HALL, RICHARD LARRY 
MedlinAssociate professor of Architec-ture, University of Arizona, "LIGHT
WEIGHT STRUCTURES Thursday 29, 
10:30 A.M\ 7500 SCIENCE HALL, 
RICHARD M. GENSERT-Visiting 
Andrew Mellon Professor of Architecture 
"STRUCTURE, FORM and HISTORY" 
Friday 30, 1:30 P.M., Seminar, Structure 
and Form Laboratory 207 G, Porter Hall. 
3:30 P'M\ GSIA AUDITORIUM, LEV 
ZETLINDistinguished Professor of Engin
eering, Consulting Engineer, Pratt Institute, 
"THE IMPACT OF TODAYS ECONOMY 
ON TECHNOLOGY, ON INNOVATIONS 
IN ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUC
TION SYSTEMS."
5M9 2Axw5a? 7yw2s yw7 pAwB
SOCIETY OF PITTSBURGH invites 
Carnegie-Mellon students, staff and faculty 
to its dances. No admission charge. 
English and American traditional dances. 
Most dances taught. Sunday evenings, 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m., Room 524 Schenley 
Hall (Pitt Student Union).
y8P,ll,V1l Mtl ,1i,U98 f0Vlf9-U,i9
students to campus for an overnight visit. 
Volunteer to be a host. Share your meals, 
your classes, and your CMU experiences 
with a high school senior. The first of four 
campaigns is on October 2, 3. Stop by 
Admissions (Warner Hall, first floor) to 
volunteer.
n,0UM0,oMUD t1 9P90o91-e f09o1t1-e l90!
vice will begin training sessions for new 
volunteers on Wednesday, September 21, 
at the Birthright office, 4612 Bayard St., 
Oakland, at 7:45 p.m.
Birthright assists the distressed pregnant 
woman in time of crisis by supportive 
listening and exploration of alternatives to 
abortion.
Volunteers are welcomed for service on 
the telephone hot-line, public relations, 
funding, operations or speakers' bureau.
For more information, call Birth
right at 621-1988.
5M9 19dU 5Bg" J,rr S9 UM9 9i91,1o VR
September 30 with a very talented lady, 
ROCHELLE THOMPSON, and her group, 
HARBOR LIGHTS. They recently played 
the pre-show when David Sandborn was in 
Pittsburgh, and have just returned from a 
New York Tour.
This is a special event held in con
junction with Activities Board and Food 
Service. So watch for details soon!
uVPt1 g891U,R,98 uVP91F uMe wAu
Supports Lesbian Rights is the topic 
program sponsored by First Pittsburgh 
NOW. It is scheduled for 8 p.m. at the 
Unitarian Church at Morewood and Ells
worth in Shadyside.
The main speaker will be a representa
tive of the Pennsylvania NOW Speaker's 
Bureau and a member of the Pennsylvania 
(Governor's) Council for Sexual Minor
ities. She will review the history of NOW's 
support of Lesbian rights and outline the 
arguments for why all women should 
support civil rights for sexual minor
ities. She will also discuss pending legis
lation and plans for lobbying.
There will be ample opportunity for 
discussion and questions from all visitors; 
refreshments will be served.
clubs
y1eV19 ,1U909lU98 ,1 UM,l e9t0Ql lJ99f!
stakes effort please come join us Sunday 
night, Sept. 25 at 10 p.m., in room 11 
Skibo. The offices of sweepstakes and 
safety chairman are vacant.
5M9 59-M "re,1o 2rbS J,rr P99U u98!
nesday, 21 September at 7:30 p.m. in 
room 45 Skibo. All members of the 
C-MU community with an interest in 
aviation are invited to attend.
gR eVb JVbr8 r,N9 UV M9rf V0ot1,v9 t
TGIF dance, contact the bands, and scatter 
publicity, please leave your name, address, 
and phone number at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk. Your help could be appreciated!
pya2  y1e R09lMPt1 V0 R,0lU e9t0 o0t8
student who didn't pick up a SARC 
Information folder may get one in the 
Alumni Office, 5th floor, Warner Hall. 
u2D 59-M yPtU9b0 at8,V pUtU,V1D J,rr 
hold its second meeting Monday the 26th, 
as 7:30 p.m. in HH401.
3VM1 hC 209-,19D 79t1 VR UM9 2Vrr9o9 VR 
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00, in 260 Baker Hall.
scholarships awards prizes
yP90,-t1 2Vrr9o,tU9 hV9Ul y1UMVrVoe g1!
ternational Publications is sponsoring a 
National College Poetry ContestFall
Concours I977open to all college and 
university students desiring to have their 
P<Wv anthologized. CASH PRIZES 
will go to the top five poems:
$100First Place, $50Second Place, 
$25Third Place, $10Fourth, and $10 
Fifth. AWARDS of free printing for ALL 
accepted manuscripts in our popular, 
handsomely bound and copyrighted an
thology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE
POETS. Deadline: October 25.
CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS:
1. Any student is eligible to submit his 
verse.
2. All entries must be original and unpub
lished.
3. All entries must be typed, double
spaced, on one side of the page only. 
Each poem must be on a separate sheet 
and must bear, in the upper lefthand cor
ner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the stu
dent as well as the COLLEGE attended.
4. There are no restrictions of form or 
theme. Length of poems up to fourteen 
lines. Each poem must have a separate 
title. (Avoid "Untitled"!) Small black and 
white illustrations welcome.
5. The judges' decision will be final. No 
information by phone!
6. Entrants should keep a copy of all en
tries as they cannot be returned. Prize 
winners and all authors awarded free pub
lication will be notified immediately after 
deadline. I.P. will retain first publication 
rights for accepted poems. Foreign lang
uage poems welcome.
7. There is an ititial one dollar registration 
fee for the first entry and a fee of fifty 
cents for each additional poem. It is 
requested to submit no more that ten 
poems per entrant.
8. All entries must be postmarked not 
later than the above deadline and fees be 
paid, cash, check or money order, to: 
INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS, 
4747 Fountain Avenue, Los Anglels, 
CA 90029.
classified
7,lU0,SbUV0 Jt1U98 UV Mt18 VbU t8i90U,l,1o
brochures for hand crafted leather goods. 
Make your own hours. Excellent pay. No 
deliveries, no demonstrations or collec { 
tions. Send stamped, self-addressed envel
ope TODAY to LEATHER AND THINGS, 
619 Wood Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15221.-
mAp5F u,rlV1 5/// 5911,l at-4b9U
Please return to Brandi Jackson, More
wood Gardens 5-B-6. Reward Offered!
7V8o9 7t0U .&6*C 6-er,1890D lUt18t08
trans. Many new parts. Good tires. Reli f 
able, Economical. Phone 687-3459.
ut1U98F 2M9ll frte90l J,UM xp2" 0tU!
ings to serve as subjects in psychology 
experiments. Hours at your convenience; 
Excellent pay; interesting tasks. For 
information contact Sally Goldin, 621 - 
2600, X489 or drop by BH 336 F.
uyw5s7F uAaqp5x7? p5x7sw5p
FOR BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT ONE JOB  
REQUIRES WHOLE A.M. or P.M. IN
QUIRE M.l. 7-608.
"V0 ptr9(nVVN -tl9D Uef9J0,U90D frt1UlD 
dishes, toaster, linen, and other house
hold items. 687-I548 after 6 p.m.
Not all of what you learn at college will be in the classroom.
In fact, some of the most productive experiences 
will be those you pursue on your own.
If you have an interest in writing, 
business, 
design, 
photography, 
or any number of fields, 
the TARTAN offers the opportunity to put them to use.
True, you won't recieve college credits for working on the TARTAN, 
but Transcripts aren't always an indication of personal growth.
At the TARTAN, you learn by doing.
Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621-2600 ext. 656 or 481.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-September 20, 1977
HAL AQUA?
"Geez, He's mellowed out." I said, kind of in 
awe.
"More like freaked out, wouldn't you say?"
"Yes. I'd say." I said.
Same glasses. Same face, and nose and eyes and 
heavy eye brows. Same moustache on top of the 
same unsmiling mouth. Except now there was a 
goatee to drip down from the mouth onto the 
pullover sweater. Gone was the jacket, the but
toned collar, the matted down hair that was 
parted on the side. The guru was Hal Aqua, and 
Hal Aqua was the guru. Or was he?
I knew there would be a fourth picture, a 
senior portrait, the clincher, the answer, the 
freak! I scrambled through the frames for the 
class of 1970-1971. The last group of brothers to 
know Hal Aqua. I scanned the faces until his 
eyes met mine. Through the same pair of wire 
frame glasses, Hal Aqua stared up at me and 
introduced himself.
He wore a faint smile. And when did he last 
comb his hair? Or wash it? Confidence. Sure, he 
looked confident, but crazy. And most of all, 
especially after the big build up, Hal Aqua looked 
comical. I laughed along with the other brothers.
"He went ape-shit!" I heard someone say. I 
stared, compared and laughed some more.
"What happened to him?" That was the 
important question that I wanted answered. But 
no one knew. They could only philosophize. Hal 
Aqua. A student of the sixties. The SDS genera
tion. Mild mannered nurd steps into the class
room and becomes the unkempt radical. It's 
actually easy to understand. He's a perfect 
example of the life style change. The sixties-seventies protean man. Why Hal Aqua ought to be 
in a goddamn museum, he should! Sure. He 
should be on display with the before and after 
photos. The brothers thought they had all the 
answers.
I surveyed the four pictures. Four years. The 
revolution of Student Aqua. They had the
by Jeffrey Zaslow
I never met Hal Aqua, yet he's a fraternity 
brother of mine. I wasn't around to witness Hal's 
metamorphasis. I wasn't around to say, "Geez, 
Hal, you've changed!" , because I wasn't around 
during the time that Hal, or Hal's generation, 
would have been changing. When he enrolled at 
CMU I was in the fourth grade. When he gradu
ated, I was in seventh grade. I was living in a dif
ferent world. But when Hal left CMU in 1971, he 
left behind four very revealing pictures. You see, 
I've never met Hal Aqua, but I'd love to meet 
him someday and say to him, "Boy, you've 
changed!"
He first came to my attention when I was 
moved into Pi Lambda Phi fraternity as a fresh
man boarder. Housing had placed me there, and I 
guess it was some of the older brothers who, 
while giving me a tour of the house, first dusted 
off the composite photo displays, and pointed 
out Hal Aqua.
They explained; Like most fraternities, at the 
end of each year, all the brothers sat for formal 
portraits. Vantine Photo studios then artistically 
arranged them and framed them together, with 
the year, fraternity name, shield, housemother 
and mascot in the center of the composite. Most 
fraternities hang their composites prominently on 
the walls of their living and dining rooms, so all 
the freshman girls can say "That one was cute!" 
and the brothers can answer, "Well now he's a 
rich engineer with a wife and kids. So there!"
TARTAN FOLIO
SEPTEMBER 20, 1977/SPECIAL ISSUE: HAL AQUA?
EDITOR: JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ART DIRECTOR: ANDREW EPSTEIN 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
CONTRIBUTING ARTIST: STUSEIDMAN
COVERDESIGN by BRYAN KING AND BRENDA REED
HAL AQUA 
SOPH
Pi Lam, over the years, just let their composites 
collect dust in a corner.
Nevertheless, the brothers proudly directed me 
to the stack of huge frames in the corner of the 
T.V. room and told me to find Hal Aqua in 
1967's composite. I could sense from their smiles 
that Hal Aqua was, or is, someone special. He 
turned out to be just a conversation piece.
One of the brothers decided to fill me in on 
the situation. "He's a freshman in that picture. 
He's nurdy looking as all hell, isn't he? Probably 
walked around with a slide rule in his pocket. 
That was in the days before calculators. Looks 
pretty nurdy, doesn't he?"
"Yes." I agreed. I've since learned that he was 
an art major.
"Now take a look at 1968-69, when Aqua was 
a sophmore." I was ordered.
"He grew a moustache. Hair's a little longer. 
Same glasses. But he's not that much different." 
That was my analysis.
"See. He's wearing the same jacket. See? "One 
of the brothers discovered that, and wanted to 
make me see his point.
"And his shirt collar is buttoned." Another 
brother declared.
I wasn't that impressed, however. Besides the 
fact that he did a little bit of maturing and denurding, he still fit the basic description. He 
must have grown the moustache so people 
wouldn't mistake him for some other nurd with 
glasses, I thought. He didn't have much of a smile 
in either picture, but I attributed that to the Viet
nam era. I was in that "need to attribute" mood, 
and I understood the significance f the picture 
to come.
The third composite, Hal's junior year, was at 
the bottom of the stack. The glass on the frame 
was broken, but Hal's picture announced itself 
quickly through the broken glass.

---------------------------------------------------

September 20, 1977TART ANPage 13
explanation. Hal Aqua was a product of his 
times. Not my times. HIS Times. And here 
I was, six years later, and it might as well be light 
years.
Was the Hal Aqua of '67 the same Hal Aqua of 
'71? The glasses were the same. Withstanding the 
smile in '71, the lips were the same. It's all 
the same. It's just a perfect display of a guy gone 
ape shit. Case closed. We left the T.V. room and I 
forgot about Hal Aqua's metamorphasis.
I forgot about him for a while. Sure, after I 
joined the Frat, I'd speculate with the rest of the 
brothers when we'd show the composites to other 
people. ''He let himself go wild because of the 
grade struggle at CMU , if you ask me." I'd say if 
people asked me. But that was the easy conclu
sion. That was the funny answer. That was the 
"Well, see what happens if you stay here too 
long?" answer. Maybe that wasn't THE answer.
Earlier this year I asked Pi Lam's cook, Tincy 
Davis, what she remembered about Hal Aqua. I'd 
already had the four pictures blown up, and 
I showed them to her. She'd seen alot of brothers 
come and go in twenty-five years. Would she re
member Metamorphasis-man Aqua?
" Herb? Was that his name?" I was covering up 
the ' H. Aqua' to check if she remembered.
"No, his name is Hal."
"Oh. That's right. Where's he at now? " I 
could sense some recognition as she spoke.
" Denver, Colorado." I knew because I'd asked 
Pi Lam's Vice President to look up his address for 
me.
" Well he was a really nice boy. Quiet. ReCONTINUED ON PAGE 14
HAL AQUA 
JUNIOR YEAR 1969-1970
THE PERFECT SOLUTION
TO HELP SPREAD YOUR FOOD BUDGET 
TO SUPPLEMENT YOUR MEAL CONTRACT 
TO AVOID CARRYING CASH ALL OVER CAMPUS 
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS VERY SPECIAL SALE
SALE
THE FOOD SERVICE COUPON BOOK
GOOD AT ANY FACILITY $20 worth of coupons - regularly $19 - Now $18
$10 worth of coupons - regularly $9.50 - Now $9
MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE BOOK STORE OR SKIBO ROOM 62 
OFFER GOOD THROUGH TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18th

---------------------------------------------------

HAL?
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 13
served. Shy I guess. Just quiet. But a nice boy," 
Tincy was leafing throught the pictures. "Boy, 
he got uglier as time went on , didn't he ?"
There wasn't much more she could tell me. 
She said he played the guitar, but I knew that. 
I'd looked through old Frat photo albums and 
saw many shots of Hal strumming his guitar. 
Most of the pictures were from the pre-freakedout days. And he was smiling. Playing the guitar, 
and smiling. So much for the morose Vietnam 
War theory.
I knew that Hal was a freelance artist, because
that's the occupation he put on an alumni survey. 
I also knew that he hadn't answered the recent 
invitation to Spring Carnival dinner that Pi Lam's 
V.P. had sent out last year.
" Tell him I said hello, will you?" Tincy said to 
me as if I was going to see him some time on my 
way to the library.
" I don't think I'll be seeing him Tincy, but if I 
ever do, I'll send him your love. " I said with 
every intention of doing so if I ever saw him.
However, I still haven't met him. But I'm sure 
he's somewhere in the world, probably in Denver, 
looking very much like himself (whatever that 
may be). If and when I do met him, I suppose I'll 
ask him the "Why he did it" questions. Then 
again, maybe I won't. Maybe by meeting him, and 
getting to know him, it will all click and I'll have
my answer. Most probably I'll never meet him, 
and I'll keep introducing him as a "product of 
his times" to the Freshman that come to gasp 
at the composites.
But I did write to him, hoping that the address 
in the fraternity files is his most current one. I 
asked him to send a recent picture and maybe 
some information about himself. I asked him to 
fill me in on what went on behind the scenes, 
behind the pictures. What went on before my 
time, because, like I said, I wasn't around. I'm 
a generation later and he's a generation sooner. 
But sooner or later, Hal Aqua, I'm going to 
understand you, and what you were. What you 
possibly stood for. Because "Geez, Hal Aqua, 
you've changed!" , and I want to know all about 
hm
Page 14-TARTAN-September 20, 1977
MAI AOUA

---------------------------------------------------

'/_____________ENTERTAINMENT
HALL AND OATS: TURN FOR THE DENSE
A record review
Album: Beauty on a Back Street 
Musicians: Daryl Hall and John Oates
by David Lucas
Daryl Hall and John Oates have never 
been known for stylistic consistency in 
albums. Their sleeper hit Abandoned Lun
cheonette gave way to the synthesizer-laden 
bubblegum of War Babies. The untitled 
silver album was, for the most part, down 
an R&B track while Bigger than Both of Us 
seemed to be filled with AM radio material.
Hall and Oates sixth album Beauty on a 
Back Street shows that the duo has taken a 
turn for the dense. The music is louder. 
The sweet vocal duets and slick violins that 
spring up in their best work are few and far 
between. Several songs begin and end with 
angry guitar clouts. The lyrics convey 
lonely, angry, or condescending views of 
the world. Love is only mentioned in the
contexts of pain and perversion. Probably 
the most pleasant song on the album fits 
the mold of earlier hits. Love Hurts (Love 
Heals) 'is first-rate blue eyed soul. Hall 
and Oates marvelous vocal duet rides over 
violin orchestration, Tom Scotts tangy 
tenor sax solos, and a throbbing bass beat.
Another excellent tune is Why Do Lovers 
Break Each Others Heart? The simplicity 
of lyrical content, the guitar thwacks and 
a piano track swiped from A Summer Place 
give this a distinctly early-60s rock-androlJ flavor. The vocals feature an extre
mely successful call and answer element, 
and the sparingly-used harmonies are enti
cing.
Dont Change is a haunting tune with a 
langorous, thumping beat and a back
ground of rumbling guitars. The lyrics 
betray a sense of the scary circumstances 
of love. Oddly enough, the title of Hall 
and Oates album, Bigger Than Both of Us 
appears as a song on the new album. This 
slow number is beefed up by weighty violin 
orchestration and throbbing bass.
Both Bad Habits and Infections and You 
Must Be Good for Something are loud,
piiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiitiiiiiiimiiiiiiimimiiiiiimmiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiimiimiii|
| ALBUMS - $2.00 |
1 THE DOO DAH SHOP {
| 304 S. Bouquet St. |
u Quality Used LP's $2.00 |
I We buy LP's at 1.00 each |
| Mon. - Sat. 12-5 |
Piiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiittitimiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^ 
f-iCutoutfor a weekend
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you... its time to 
escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. So make 
plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever pastures 
are greener. Make your reservation with National today.
We feature CM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
NATIONALCAR RCNTALNational Car Rental
I.
'You pay for gas and return car (o renting city. Kale available Friday noon (<> Monday noon 
Non-distountable rale subject to change w ithoul notice.
racous numbers with soft, effiminate 
chorus. Both souijd like the guitarists are 
playing the drummers sheet music. The 
integrity of Bad Habits is marred by un
necessary noise and screaming at the shaky 
fade out. The latter number features some 
bitchy lyrics like Porn imagination/ Boobs 
on every station/ You think its free cause 
they show it on cable T.V.
Winged Bull and The Emptiness belong to 
the Gary Wright School of Music. Only 
Winged Bull succeeds because of a pseudoGreek interlude which is a beautiful sur
prise. Its lyrics bear the mark of insipidness which typifies most rock-mysticism.
Ending the album on a quiet note is The 
Girl Who Used to Be. Its tones are light
and lucid. The song would fit in perfectly 
with the gentle rock of the Abandoned 
Luncheonette album. It fades with a 
myriad of fragmented song lines, soft 
sax, and synthesizer notes.
records
Since musical criticism often hinges upon 
the relationship of new material to past 
achievement, Beauty on a Back Street 
must be regarded as somewhat of a dis
appointment. The relative harshness of 
these songs makes them somewhat inferior 
to numbers like Do What You Want to Be 
What You Are and Shes Gone.
1mmi
ON RYE BREAD OR BAGEL
WITH LETTUCE,TOMATO, & DILL PICKLE0\IV
VISIT AUNT FANNY S FOR EVERYTHING YOU REMEMBER ANO LOVE A OELI FOR . .
ASK AUNT FANNY TO PREPARE PARTY TRAYS FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY!
5 minutes from Oakland 
Baum Boulevard and Roup Avenue (near Negley)
6)*c6//
Friday and Saturday 7 am to 1 am 
Sunday-Thursday 7am to midnight
SPECIAL GOOO THROUGH OCTOBER 1.1977
we deliver

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-September 20, 1977
CAMELOTS CAROUSEL
y UM9tU09 09i,9J 
Ebl,-trF 2t0Vbl9r
2VPfVl90l: aV8o90l I ktPP90lU9,1 
h0V8b-90F 2tP9rVU h0V8b-U,V1l 
by Carol XBreen
Carousel is not the most tightly construc
ted show Rodgers and Hammerstein II 
ever wrote. But give it a strong dancing 
cast, and several good voices and it is 
capable of having its moments.
Camelot Productions Carousel was for
tunate to have a good dancing cast to 
carry the show through some of its weaker 
spots. A few clumsy areas did exist, such 
as a scene change right towards the end of 
a tender love song. Occasionally the 
blocking became stagnant and the pacing 
became slow. On the whole, enough good 
was done to offset the bad. For example, 
in the opening dance, which is there to
theatre
establish the shows relationships, things 
get a bit cramped on the stage. The lack 
of levels also makes establishing relation
ships difficult.
The story of Billy Bigelow loving, marry
ing, and then feeling trapped with Julie 
Jordan is timeless. Billy Bigelow is played 
by Jerry Cumunale. He often seems to 
be skimming his part, generalizing instead 
of looking for motivation. Billy seems to 
be just a mean person instead of a man 
troubled because he feels trapped.
Julie Jordan, played by Linda Johnson 
has a solo dance in the opening of the show 
II which she executes beautifully. Ms. Jordan 
also sings with a great amount of confi
dence. Perhaps the most poignant scene in 
the show is when Julies husband dies and 
she is comforted by her aunt Nettie Fow
ler, played by Elenor Glockner. Nettie 
sings a powerful rendition of You 11 Never 
Walk Alone.
Julies best friend Carrie is played by 
Mary Lee Casey. Ms. Casey is not as pow
erful on stage as Ms. Jordan is. She is too 
concerned with getting her laughs. Carrie 
becomes too tedious to watch.
The man Carrie loves, Enoch Snow, 
played by Tom Caruso likes to milk the 
audience for his laughs, none of which 
were funny. He seemed to be making 
fun of the show while he was on stage, 
which looked rather awkward next to 
actors who were playing it straight.
Simplicity is important with a play like 
Carousel. Otherwise the show appears 
insincere and sloppy. Pacing is also an 
essential element. The show must move 
briskly or the weaker spots in the con
struction of it begin to drag the entire 
production down.
Visually, Camelots Carousel is colorful 
with costumes and sets by Don Difonso 
and John Lyon, respectively.
Camelot Productions Carousel is not 
consistantly enthralling, but it does have its 
moments. Rodgers and Hammerstein fans 
should love it.
BLOOD AND MONEY
A book review
Book: Blood and Money
Writer: Thomas Thompson
by Joan Livitski
Murder, suspense, passion; more intrigue 
than any dimestore mystery/romance novel 
contains, and yet its true, all of it. 
Thomas Thompson blends two strands of 
information into a web that will bind you 
till the last page is completed and then 
more when you begin to conjure up 
answers to the unresolved questions. If you 
like everything tied up in a nice little 
bundle with an emphatic The End 
following, this book is not for you. But if 
being left thinking sets your mental mach
inery to work, then Blood and Money 
can surelv start those wheels to turning.
books
The realism of it attracts appeal that 
few fiction writers concoctions can 
ture, but at some points Thompson does 
carry it to an extreme. Parts of the book 
read much like a police report, all cold, 
hard facts. Luckily, the subject itself has 
enough shock value to hold the readers 
attention.
From the very beginning, Joan Rob
insons life was clouded in mystery. 
Adopted, she was later to find out that her 
real father and her adopted father were one 
in the same. Society scandals and a couple 
of faulty marriages typified Joans life, yet 
her father, Ash Robinson, always had the 
money to set things straight, until she died
under suspicious circumstances while in 
the midst of an unhappy marriage to a man 
openly displaying his infidelity. But the 
intrigue only begins here. The whole story 
builds on drawn out trial with all its 
hostility. Ash Robinson, determined to 
prove his law, John Hill, murdered his 
daughter , Joan, turns his life into a one 
man crusade.
Even with the vastness of information, 
the mastery of Mr. Thompson enables him 
to encompass several stories within the 
whole. Blood and Money, written with 
such scope, covers a multitude of back
ground. John Hills life and affairs are 
exposed along with the investigations of 
those connected in the conspiracy of his 
murder. The book appears to have as 
many characters as your average soap 
opera, and yet the authors style enables 
the reader to keep it all very clear.
Blood and Money serves as more than 
a captivating suspense thriller, it has the 
social impact of informing us of some of 
the outlandish ludicrousies of the wealthy. 
It proves that the station or economic 
biacket of a person doesnt make them 
better, just harder to pin with an accusa
tion. The legal process of America also 
undergoes a sharp inspection from a fair 
yet critical eye. These observations give 
Blood and Money a broader value than 
just another book about intrigue. It has 
the ability, nearly nonexistent in recent 
books to make you stop and think with
out your even realizing it because youre 
too busy being entertained.
,e<V
n1gi
; V neckCrew-Neck
acrylic Sweaters
I $799reg. 12.00 |
FORBES AT ATWOOD
OAKLAND
681 7888
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.0. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA15213
Rhood & co.
14 Wood St. Downtown 
281-2133

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
Trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie and his quartet 
combine with the Duke Ellington Orches
tra directed by Mercer Ellington for 
a double feature to open Heinz Hall's new 
Cavalcade of Great Bands series on Oct
ober 9.
Tickets for these concerts are on sale at 
^ Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Hornes, Gimbels 
and Sears. Group discounts are available by 
contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at 281-8185.
Horacio Gutierrez, who has been 
guest pianist at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts and also performed on one 
segment of last years PBS-TV program 
Previn and the Pittsburgh, returns here
r this weekend to highlight the third concert 
series of the 1977-78 season. Concert times 
are 5 p.m. Thursday, 8:30 p.m. Friday, 
and Sunday afternoon at 2:30, September 
29 and 30 and October 2. Music Director 
Andre Previn will resume his leadership 
duties for these concerts.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony 
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, individual tickets are occasionp ally turned back to the box office for 
resale. Information is available by phoning 
281-5000.
COFFEEHOUSE featuring Robin & Linda 
Williams, traditional folk singers from N.Y. 
Saturday, September 24, in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
animals and plants, adaptation, conserva
tion and three different segments on the 
White Wilderness.
THEATRE
Vincent Price stars as Oscar Wilde in the 
masterful new play, Diversions & Delights, 
to appear at Heinz Hall for three shows 
only on October 10-12 starting at 5 p.m. 
each night.
Price captures Wilde near the end of his 
life as he earns a sporadic living by giving 
lectures. Author of prose, poems, novels, 
and plays, Wilde died at an early age in a 
swirl of controversy. Considered one of 
the greatest and most controversial figures 
in the literary world, Wilde authored 
The Importance of Being Earnest, The 
Picture of Dorian Gray, and Lady Winder
mere's Fan
Tickets for this new hit are on sale at 
Heinz Hall. Group discounts are available 
by contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 
281-8185.
The Pittsburgh Lab Theatre will be present
ing Sylvia Plath: A Dramatic Portrait from 
August 26 through October 2 on weekends 
only. Their theatre is located at 3300 Fifth 
Avenue on the corner of Fifth and Craft in 
Oakland. Call 621-2876 for more informa
tion.
Camelot Productions will be presenting 
Rodgers and Hammersteins musical Car
ousel at the Plaza Theatre at 4765 Liberty
Avenue. The show begins at 8:30 and runs 
on weekends beginning September 9. Call 
683-7770 for more information.
McKeesport Little Theater will present Neil 
Simon's comedy Star Spangled Girl" 
September 16,17,18,23,24,25 and 30 and 
October 1 and 2 at its theater, corner of 
Coursin Street and Bailey Avenue, 
McKeesport. Curtain time is 8:30 p.m. 
and 7:30 p.m. Sundays. For reservations, 
please call 678-1100.
Ann Kinner, Gerry Dalton, and Randy 
Pingree star in what is nearly the last days 
in a writer-publisher collaboration on an 
underground magazine. The lives of 
staid publisher Andy (Randy Pingree) and 
writer Norman (Gerry Dalton) are disrup
ted by the red, white, and blue ideals of 
former Olympian and American patriot 
Sophie (Ann Kinner).
Gerry Dalton is a veteran of Broadway's 
Funny Girl and national touring
companies of West Side Story' and Mame. 
Ann Kinner has appeared at Little Lake 
Theater in Play It Again, Sam', Butterflies 
are Free' and The Mouse The Roared. 
Randy Pingree appeared in last season's 
McKeesport Little Theater production of 
Dial M for Murder'.
Bruce Stigers is director and Pat Yost 
is producer.
ART
World-famous sculptor George Segal will 
open this year's Man and Ideas lecture 
series at the Carnegie Instutute Music Hall 
Tuesday, October 4, 1977 at 8:30 p.m.
with a slide presentation and discussion of 
his work.
Theres is no charge for admission to the 
presentation, but tickets may be picked 
up in advance at the public relations office 
of the Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue.
The Hewlett Gallery in the Building 
of Fine Arts will be presenting a showing 
of the works of Mary Weidner through 
Septembe 30. The Gallery is open from 
11:00 am until 5:00 pm Monday through 
Fridays. Ms. Weidner is a member of the 
Carnegie-Mellon University art faculty.
MISC.
Tom Trevathan will speak on God the 
Son on Wed. Sept. 21 at 7:00 p.m. in 
Rm. 39. There will be time for group 
participation in the form of questions and 
discussion during the talk. This is the 
second in a series of three talks on God, 
the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Sponsored by Inter-Varsity Christian 
Fellowship.
Interested in The URANIA BOOK? You 
are welcome to attend a free seminar on 
the subject, conducted by Mrs. Berkeley 
Elliott, of Oklahoma City, a long-time 
student of URANIA, and a member of the 
Urantia Brotherhood. Come to Carnegie 
Mellon University, Room 125C, Porter 
Hall, on Saturday, September 24, at 
10:30 a.m. A light lunch will be served. 
Please call 364-1756 or 941-8802.
CINEMA
A free movie brochure is available in the 
Information and Orientation Center in Car
negie Museum of Natural History, Carnegie 
Institute. 4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213.
AB willl be presenting a touching film 
about a rather unique relationship called 
David and Lisa. The film is directed by 
Frank Perry. It will be screened on Thurs
day, September 22 at 7 and 5 in Doherty 
Hall. It only costs .75 with an I.D.
AB will be presenting Robert Redford 
and Dustin Hoffman in the rapid paced and 
highly accurate All the Presidents Men. 
This is a powerful and frightening recre
ation of Watergate, the national tragedy. It 
should not be missed. AB will show it on 
Friday, September 23 at 6:30, 9 and 11:30 
in Doherty Hall for only a dollar if you can 
show I.D.
The Film Section at the Museum of Art/ 
Carnegie Institute, presents Independent 
Filmmaker Paul Sharits, Tuesday, Sept. 
20th at 8:00 P.M. in the Museum of Art 
Theater. Paul Sharits will present and 
discuss his new abstract film Declarative 
Mode. '
Earlier Sharits films will be shown on 
Sept . 13. Admission is $1.00. For more 
information call the Film Section at 
622-3212.
Film-maker Amy Greenfield will screen 
and discuss her films and tapes, including 
Transport, Element and Dervish on Fri
day, September 23 at the Pittsburgh 
Film-makers Incorporated at 205 Oakland 
Avenue. Admission is $1.50. Call 681- 
5449 for more information. On Saturday, 
September 24 Ms. Greenfield will lecture 
on the media. Both evenings begin at 
8:00.
Every Saturday, beginning September 10 
you can enjoy free nature movies at the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Car
negie Institute. The films will be screened 
in the Lecture Hall from 1:00-2:00 p.m. on 
Saturdays through December 17. (No film 
on November 26 - Thanksgiving weekend.) 
The films concentrate on several major 
topics, ecology and its meaning for sea life,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANSeptember 20, 1977
VNfeYe.counting on you.
Red Cross.The Good Neighbor.
A Public Service of this newspaper & The Advertising Council
Last year millions upon millions
counted on us.
Snatch the pebble
The odds are against you.
Youve got to light 
all those distractions
on your mind. c
Chores. Worries. Deadlines.
Gnawing away at your concentration. 
Pulling you in a thousand different directions.
Instead of one.
The sad part is, youve lived 
with these distractions so long, 
you probably dont realize 
how much theyre hurting you.
At the CMU Karate Club, 
well help you to push aside 
the mental chatter 
and to fuse your mind and body 
into a single responsive unit.
Well show you a side of yourself 
you might never otherwise know.
We offer you the chance.
Reach for it.
The CMU Karate Club
Beginners' classes start Thursday.
Practice is held in Thistle Hall every Tuesday and Thursday, 6:30 pm, and Saturday. 11:30 am.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTSTHE BIG RED BUFFALO BETHANY
by Dave Wills
Carnegie-Mellon opened its drive for the 
PAC Championship with an overwhelming 
30-7 victory over the Bethany Bisons. The 
game was close only in the third quarter as 
the Tartans piled up 425 total yards against 
the Bisons, while the miserly tech defense 
allowed Bethany only 90 yards.
Bethanys high point of the game may 
have been the first "offensive series, where 
they stopped three consecutive Tartan 
plunges into the middle. Matt Wehrle 
punted to the Bethany 42 yard line, and 
the Bisons took over. The first offensive 
play was an omen of things to come as 
Rich Lackner delivered a viscious hit on 
the Bison ball carrier and recovered the ball 
at Bethanys 45 yard line. The Tartans 
were stopped in three plays again, but 
Wechle got off a 41 yard punt to give 
Bethany poor field position. CMUs de
fense asserted itself again as Mike Joahman 
sacked Bethanys Don Merehouse for a 9 
yard loss and Jim Dickenson pressured 
Morehouse on a crucial third down pass. 
Scott Lanz boomed a 40 yard punt and a 
clipping penalty also helped pin CMU on 
their own 9 yard line.
One play later the ball was on the 41 
yard line as Bob Gasior, a sophomore from 
Pittsburgh Central Catholic, burst through 
the left side of the Tartan line and came 1 
step from breaking for a touchdown. 
Mixing power plays with an occasional 
option, the offense marched to Bethanys 
34 yard line before Rick Brown dumped 
off a screen pass to Ralph David. Davids 
speed turned a 10 yard gain into a touch
down as he reversed field and outran all 
defenders. Mike Kostic kicked the P.A.T.
Neither team threatened to score again 
until 9:13 left in the first half, when Gus 
Sunset recovered a fumble by Bethanys 
Jeff Severino on their 31 yard line. On 
third and five, Brown passed to Jim Starr,
Rick Leaman <40) breaks through holefor3rd CMU touchdown
who dragged several defenders to the 9 
yard line. A quarterback sack ruined 
CMUs chances for a touchdown, so Kostic 
booted a 23 yard field goal that made the 
score 10-0. Although there was no more 
scoring in the half, it can be said that the 
Tartans offense was weakened with the 
loss of right guard Jay Meenan, who spent 
the rest of the game on crutches with an 
injured knee.
CMU kicked off to start the second half, 
and it was here that Bethany tightened up 
the game. After Bethany failed to move on 
offense, linebacker Bernard Molbrough
continued on page 22.
-
r
Dey completion of a 4th down and 5 yard pass for a CMU first down.
t %
took matters into his own hands as he 
jumped in front of a Rick Brown pass, and 
returned it 23 yards for Bethanys only 
score of the game. The P.A.T. made the 
score 10-7 in favor of CMU.
The Tartans came right back on a 72 
yard scoring march, with most of the yard
age coming on power plays up the middle. 
Dave Culminated the drive with a 12 yard 
touchdown burst that, with Kostics
against BC helps sustain 2nd touchdown drive.
made the score 17-7.
Strong defense, with dutch plays 
coming from Sunseri, Lackner, and Tac 
Caine continued to shut down Bethanys 
offense. Early in the fourth quarter, a Lanz 
punt got past two Tartan halfbacks and 
CMU had to go on offense on their own 9 
yard line. However, Gasior got CMU out 
of the hale with a 19 yard run on an option 
pitchout. Eight straight off tackle plays
continued to page 22
COLLEGIATE 
RESEARCH 
PAPERS
RESEARCHAssistance ALL SUBJECTS
Choose from our I brary of 7,000 topics. 
All papers have been prepared by our 
staff of professional writers to insure 
excellence. Send $1.00 (air mail 
postage) for the current edition of our 
mail order catalog.
[~EDUCATIONAL SYSTEMS
| P.O. Box 25916-E,
Los Angeles, Calif. 90025
We also provide original 
research -- all fields. 
Thesis and dissertation 
assistance also available.ZipAll Bethany could do consistently was punt.
VRVR VRVR

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANSeptember 20, 1977
TECH BOOTERS ADD NEW DIMENSION
Se er9 aVU9 30C
The Tech soccer club opens its season 
this Friday against the Bluestreaks of John 
Carroll. The Tartans will be led by tri
captains John Hunt, Keith Hordatt, and 
Tom Binnie, who are all optimistic in 
light of the fact that they have never 
lost to the Cleveland school in league 
play.
An unusual feature of this years squad 
will be the addition of the first woman 
varsity soccer player to compete in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference. Amy 
Cook is that woman and the freshman 
from McLean, Virginia will dress and be 
ready to back up starting goalie John 
Hawkins. The woman keeper, who 
earned a black eye during a practice 
session last Saturday, finds the practices 
physical but fun and has so far kept 
pace with the men on the squad. Amy, 
who played high school womens soc
cer, began tryouts when she found out that 
there was no womens team here. She 
receives no special treatment and commen
ted that the rest of the squad, are all 
really nice and they treat me like a lady.
Some other bright spots to look forward 
to seeing this year include some strong 
freshmen who finally began to shine once 
the team began scrimmaging. Freshman 
Colin Clement and Carl Pavelko should fill 
a few of the gaps left by departing mem
bers of last years team. Clement, a 
forward, has two strong feet and can play 
on either side of the field. Pavelko, an 
apparent midfielderdefender, is strong on 
the ball and should help an already strong 
defense consisting of George Canepa and 
Bob Sikera.
The game Friday will provide a good 
tune-up for two powerful teams who come 
to play the Tartans the following week.Harriers Lose To Jeanette
by M.A.
The cross country team was treated to 
a surprise loss in their home opener as 
the Jeanette Harriers shaved the Tartans 
27-28 (low score wins). Despite fine per
formances by Dario Donatelli in second 
place and Steve Faloon in fourth, C-MU 
was unable to out-position the opposi
tion back in the pack.
Schenley Parks rain-soaked trails posed 
little trouble to either team, and finishing 
times were more indicative of the calibre 
of competition than of the obstacles of 
the elements. Jeanettess Slusser, the 
winner of the race, clicked off the 4.82 
miles in 25:30. Donatelli took second 
place in 26:12 and Faloon ran 26:27 
for fourth place. Barry Vukoder and 
Steve Crelli finished a minute later in 
sixth and seventh places. Old-timers 
Gordon (ninth place) and Daly 
(eleventh) trailed in shortly afterward.
Understandably disturbed by the loss of 
the opening race, Coach Meckley neverthe less expressed confidence in his runners 
and will rally them for tomorrows effort 
against Allegheny and Bethany. Mechley 
noted that Jeanette was only the fourth 
team to beat the Tartans on their home 
course in 10 years.
On Wednesday, C-MU begins its confer
ence competition by hosting Bethany and 
Allegheny Colleges in a triangular meet. 
Dave Wottle, Olympic gold medalist 
in 1972, will be on hand as the coach of 
the Bethany squad. The race gets under
way at 3:30 on Flagstaff field.
On Tuesday local rival Pitt plays the 
Tartans and the Panthers this year feature 
two freshmen who were named to the
1976 High School All-American team. The 
following Friday, Sept. 30, Case Western 
Reserve, also from Cleveland come to play
the Tartans at home. Case boasts an 
almost all import team which was runner 
up in the conference last year.
L
Now Offered at Carnegie-Mellon University
Call
Major Robert D. Rivers 
621-2600, Ext 281/282AmyROVC
Buffaloed
continued from page 21
and two excellent sweeps by Brown moved 
the Tartans into good position. Three plays 
later Bob Kennedy, coming in for a slightly 
shaken up Brown, handed off to Rick 
Leamon on an inside veer, and Leamon 
broke into the open for a 24 yard touch
down. The P.A.T. was no good and CMU 
lead 23-7.
With five minutes left in the game, CMU 
started their final scoring drive. After 
Brown passed to Rich Wisniewski for 10 
yards and Craig Hlaclik for 23, the Tartans 
went to the ground with Pete Rothermel 
picking up most of the yardage. Roth
ermel, who holds the record for the longest 
kickoff return at CMU (94 yds.) scored the 
final touchdown with a quick veer up the 
middle. Kostic converted the P.A.T. 
making the final score 30-7.
Needless to say. Coach Klausing was 
ecstatic over the Tartans first win. He was 
expecially pleased with the kicking, which 
had no major breakdowns, unlike last 
game. Klausing stated that they must cut 
down on the number of penalties to 
become a really good football team.
A major factor in the Tartans win was 
the ability of the offensive line to control 
the line of scrimmage. The Tartans notice
ably ran to their left side, partly to elude 
Bethanys slauting defense. Meenan re
marked that the offensive lines quickness 
helped negate Bethanys big but slow 
tackles. Although the extent of Meenans 
injury isnt known. Jay maintains that he 
should be ready for Case Western this 
Saturday.
Traveling to Cleveland to meet Case, the 
Tartans will be facing a 3-0 team with wins 
over Hiran, Bethany and Allegheny. This 
game should go a long way in determining 
the front runner for the P.A.C. champion
ship.
?5VI'
CAREERS
The Office of Career Services and 
Placement will present a seminar 
on The Making of a Successful In
terview, to be held on September 
22 at 7:30 PM in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo.
Mary Kale from Bethlehem Steel 
Corporation, Harold Roush from 
RCA, and Ted Anson from IBM will 
present their views regarding good 
interviewing techniques. Time will 
be available for discussion and 
questions. The program is open to 
the University community and all 
students are urged to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

September 20, 1977TARTANPage 23
. Alpha Tau Omega is The Team To Beat
by Joseph Kozak
Intramural football will field a recordbreaking 45 teams this year as the popular
ity of the sport continues to grow, un
daunted by the fact that game times are 
8:00 and 9:15 at night., weekdays and on 
Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Seven 
teams will compete in the major leagues, 
followed by 20 teams in the intermediates, 
and 18 teams in the minor leagues.
In the major leagues, defending cham
pion PIKA looks much different than the
team that went 9-0 as only four veterans 
are returning. Pete Kullen, Paul Minor, Bill 
Aldridge, and Jim Shrub Treleaven form 
the core of the team that will be filled out 
by veterans from the intermediate PIKA 
B Team. The quarterback job is still a 
toss-up between Treleaven and Ralph 
Peters. Dont let the looks of the team fool 
you.
Last years runner-up Coaches All-Stars 
returns again with the usual crop of grad 
students and school employees. Ted SchiffTHE PITTSBURGH CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY 
1977 - 1978 Season
OCTOBER 17 
NOVEMBER 7 
JANUARY 23 
FEBRUARY 13
TOKYO STRING QUARTET 
THE SUK TRIO
TASHI With DANIEL PHILLIPS 
ALBAN BERG QUARTET-MUv
MARCH 20 JULLIARD STRING QUARTET with JOHN GRAHAM
All concerts Mondays at 8:30 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall
SPECIAL RATE FOR STUDENTS: $5.00 for the series
Special Student Ticket Sale: Oct. 4 from 9:30 to 4 in Skibo Lobby 
Thereafter tickets available at Skibo Information Desk 
ID Cards must be shown 
0EEEB3
ST. ANDREW'S - LUTHERAN
291U09 I EV09JVV8 ,1 pMt8el,89
 Sunday Liturgy at 11:00 
Holy Communion - 1st Sun.
Trial Services - 5th Sun s
Activity  Worship for 
Students in Parish Context
....................................................................................................................
NEED EXTRA 
MONEY????
m
st01 9dU0t PV19e ,1 eVb0 phyas 5gEs ,R eVb t09 t M9trUMe 
EymsD to9 _/D .j/__/ fVb18lC Vrb1U990l t09 199898 
RV0 f0Vo0tP U9lU,1o tSlV0fU,V1 0tU9l VR f09l-0,fU,V1 
P98,-tU,V1lC st-M lUb8e ,l -V18bU98 b1890 lU0,-U P98,-tr 
lbf90i,l,V1C
C C Ch0Vo0tP ,1iVri9l lPtrr SrVV8 ltPfr9l 
80tJ1 tU it0,Vbl U,P9l UM0VboMVbU UM9 
lUb8eC
CC Cy R099 fMel,-tr 9dtPD ,1-rb8,1o -VPfr9U9 
SrVV8 -M9P,lU0,9lD J,rr S9 o,i91 9t-M 
5Mb0l8te PV01,1o R0VP & b1U,r ./F/ yCEC 
,1 aVVP  kVU9r u9SlU90 ktrrC 7V 1VU 
9tU S09tNRtlU V0 80,1N t1eUM,1o 9d-9fU 
JtU90 f0,V0 UV UtN,1o UM9 fMel,-trC n0,1o 
f0VVR VR to9C
2
CC Chte p-tr9 0t1o9l R0VP $) c $//D 89f91!
8,1o bfV1 094b,09P91Ul VR UM9 lUb8eC
For Complete Details, Please Call
| Biodecision Laboratories, Inc. (
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue
^ 682-2022
Or Come directly to the Physical Exam
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
HiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiittiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiF
man, A1 Koblin, Pat Wallace, and Ed 
Conner are back with newcomers Ray 
Smith and Tim Ottie, SAE and Beta 
alumni respectively. The All-Stars always 
have a few tricks up their sleeves.
SAE comes into 1977 with a young 
team that is almost all veterans. Jim 
Schiffman is quarterback of a team that 
shows only four newcomers out of a 
twelve-man squad. Terry Hanna and Skip 
Wallace will anchor a tough defense. May
be its their turn.
Beta Theta Pi, the fourth team in the 
playoffs in 76, also presents an entirely 
new look for 77. Sophomore Jeff Klaiber 
assumes the quarterback role with Steve 
Berry and Rick Yates returning as blocking 
backs. Jim Goodwin returns as defensive 
captain. The rest of the squad are untested 
rookies. Beta is always tough.
ATO steps into the season with the
most potent offense now that former 
varsity AB Pete Antimarino and former 
varsity end Bob Gatehouse are eligible to 
play. Tom Robich, also a former varsity 
player, is coaching the team. No doubt 
about it, these are the boys to beat.
The Glorified Plumbers, a team of 
chemical engineering grad students, has 
decided to take a giant step into the big 
league. A contender last year in the inter
mediates, the Plumbers feature Joe Luciana 
at quarterback with veteran John Fillo at 
blocking back. Bob Curtis, former varsity 
running back, adds an offensive weapon to 
the team. It should be interesting to see 
what they can do.
The mystery team in the majors is 
C-MAP. No information on them at all. 
Pre-season pick. ATO.
C-Book Corrections
If there are any corrections to be made 
in the following information for the C-Book. 
Send this form to Box 100 Skibo
Sep9fU9PS90 _UM
Name
Year_Major
Phone
New Local Address
Another A. PHI. O. service
THE UNIVERSITY ORATORY 
OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH&
5M9 aVPt1 2tUMVr,- x1,i90l,Ue ht0,lM VR UM9 7,V-9l9 VR h,U!
UlSb0oM Jtl -09tU98 ,1 .&6* UV P99U UM9 lf9-,tr 1998l t18 
tlf,0tU,V1l VR t l99N,1o t18 r9t01,1o 2VPPb1,UeC 5M0VboM JV0!
lM,fD lUb8eD 09U09tUl t18 t J,89 f0Vo0tP VR VUM90 t-U,i,U,9lD UM9 
x1,i90l,Ue A0tUV0e l99Nl UV l90i9 UM9 lUb891Ul t18 Rt-brUe VR UM9 
AtNrt18 t09tC gU ,l eVb0 ft0,lM t18 09f09l91Ul eVb0 9RRV0U UV Sb,r8 
2M0,lU,t1 2VPPb1,UeC
MASS SCHEDULE:
Saturday 7:00 P.M. Folk Mass 
Sunday 10:30 A.M. Folk Mass
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose 
Room
WEEKDAY MASSES:
Monday through Friday 12:30 P.M. CMUs CHAPEL
(Skibo 39)
Mass - Buffet - Discussion
TUESDAY20 CMUS CHAPEL 6:00 P.M.
(SKIBO 39)
For Further Info: Call Fr. Bob English 
681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS PRESENT
CHUCK MANGIONE
WITH THE
CHUCK MANGIONE QUARTET
HOMECOMING CONCERT
Fri., Oct. 7, 8:00 P.M.
Carnegie Music Hall
SPECIAL TICKET PRESALE THIS WEEK
SEPT. 19 - 23
Tickets Only $3.50 with CMU I.D.
Available at Skibo Information desk.
After Sept. 23, $4.00 w/I.D.
6:00 Gen. Public
