Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945
Professors Aid 
Wartime Research
Since the eary days of 1943, most 
of Carnegie Techs scientific and 
technical ability has been applied 
to the solution of scientific prob
lems by means of war-time research. 
Members of the Departments of
Dr. Frederick Seitz
Chemistry, Physics, and Metallurgy 
participated in the project, under 
the directorship of Dr. F. Seitz, 
Head of the Department of Physics. 
Those who did not carry on their 
research here were on leave of ab
sence to do consulting work 
throughout the nation.
The list of those who participated 
in the activities reads like a sub
stantial excerpt from American 
Men of Science. Most of the men 
hold doctorates; many are national 
authorities; several are authors of 
distinction; and some have won 
world-wide fame through their 
work.
In January of 1944, the war re
search work being done here was 
split into two parts. One was under 
Dr. E. Pugh for the Office of Scien
tific Research and Development. (It 
was work for the O.S.R.D., incident
ally, which was responsible for the 
muffled explosions originating in 
Continued on page 6
New Head Inaugurated 
Wednesday at P.C.W.
On Wednesday, October 24, 1945, 
Paul Russell Anderson was inaug
urated President of Pennsylvania 
College for Women. Dr. Anderson, 
the eleventh president of the col
lege, succeeded Herbert Spencer, a 
graduate of Carnegie Tech. Dr. 
Doherty, representing Tech at the 
program, spoke on The Higher In
stitutions of Pittsburgh at the 
luncheon for the official delegates. 
Several professors from Tech rep
resented their alma maters at the 
program. They were Professor 
Trone, Dennison University; Profes
sor V. J. Parisi, City College of New 
York; Dr. Ely, New York Univer
sity; Dr. J. H. James, Akron Uni
versity; Dr. Watkins, Johns Hopkins 
University; and Professor Scoles, 
American Association of University 
Professors.
Bond Queen Contest 
To Start This Week
Carnegies latest Bond Drive 
started yesterday. This drive, Techs 
first since V-J Day, will run until 
Friday, December 14. As was done 
last year, there will be a Bond 
Queen crowned on the final day of 
the drive, at the Student Council 
dance.
The number of bonds credited 
to a candidate determines her 
standing in the election. Bond 
blanks, which may be obtained at 
the cashiers office, will be stamped 
at the bank where the bonds are 
purchased. These blanks, if turned 
in at the cashiers office, will be 
credited to whichever candidate the 
purchaser wishes. Mr. Kent Schaffer 
announces that there will be a booth 
in Industries Hall for the faculty. 
Any bond bought at this booth may 
be credited to one of the candidates.
The candidates submitted by the 
various sororities are as follows:
Carroll Henson ............Delta Delta Delta
Shirley Swaney.....................Delta Gamma
Pat Werner................Kappa Alpha Theta
Helen Jaffurs........Kappa Kappa Gamma
Peggy Nelis ............................Sigma Kappa
Dorothy Feldman .... Alpha Epsilon Phi 
Peggy Wentzel............................Chi Omega
The Freshman candidate will be 
elected today by her class. Indepen
dents wishing to run should sub
mit name and picture via inter
school mail to Iris Kwall, in charge 
of Student War Finance Committee. 
This committee, consisting of Cecily 
Nicely, Jean Norris, Gus Kermes, 
and Iris Kwall, will choose the in
dependent candidates.
MMCC Freshmen Hold 
Class Officer Election
The following girls were elected 
officers of the freshman class in 
Margaret Morrison: Alyce Beachler, President; Marie Delli Gatti, 
Vice-President; Betty Haggerty, 
Secretary; Mary Lou Shoope, Treas
urer; and Virginia Price, Represen
tative to the Margaret Morrison 
Senate.
M.M.C.C. is the only one of the 
colleges that has class organization. 
This helps the members of each 
class to get well acquainted with 
each other, especially since the dif
ferent classes hold parties through 
the year and prepare skits for the 
Senate parties. Class offices provide 
a good opportunity for freshmen to 
show their leadership and to help 
their classmates have a successful 
freshman year at Tech.
Tartan Adds Members 
To Its Editorial Board
At a meeting last Friday evening, 
the editorial board of the Tartan, 
which has been operating at some
what reduced numbers during the 
semester, elected several new members to bolster its ranks. The com
plete staff, new members included, 
is:
Clara Herron ......................................Editor
Augie Binder....................Managing Editor
Harold Gottesman .... Business Manager
Mary Jane Horridge................News Editor
Boo Girts....................................Copy Editor
Audrey Wilkins... .Assistant Copy Editor
Robert Teasdale ..................Feature Editor
Ben Schwartz ....................Headline Editor
Bill Meyers..............Circulation Manager
Student Council to Sponsor 
Years First School Dance
Tech students will be glad to hear that the first all-school dance of the 
season will be held this Saturday night, November 3rd, in the Mens Gym. 
After much deliberation, Student Council decided to call the dance the 
Autumn Frolic. Jimmie Kaye and his Orchestra are coming from Cleveland 
to play for the amusement of entertainment-seeking Techites. Irwin Aisenberg has been appointed Chairman of the dance.
Lucille Emmel is in charge of the Decorations and Publicity Commit
tee. The theme of the dance will be autumn, and the decorations will be 
in keeping with it. A special feature of the dance will be a big harvest 
moon such as has been hanging in the sky for the past week. It will give
the gym the proper atmosphere. In
Tau Beta Pi Elects 
Three New Members
At a special dinner meeting in the 
Skibo last Tuesday evening, Tau 
Beta Pi, national honorary engineer
ing and science fraternity, elected 
to membership three upperclassmen 
from the College of Engineering. 
Those so honored were: Joseph
Franz, electrical junior; Louis 
Bright, physics senior; and Albert 
Schindler, physics junior. Mr. 
Schindler alone among those achiev
ed the much coveted distinction of 
becoming an honor junior by being 
elected in the first semester of his 
junior year. The number of men 
who receive this honor is limited to 
a maximum of three during any 
school year by the national frater
nity constitution, and during war
time and its aftermath the number 
of men selected as honor juniors has 
been proportionally decreased with 
the lowered enrollment in the en
gineering school.
Although the men elected became 
eligible for membership to the so
ciety by virtue of their outstanding 
scholastic records, an important fac
tor in their selection was their ex
ceptional participation in extra
curricular activities. A partial list of 
their activities indicates that Lou 
Bright is a member of Theta Xi and 
Alpha Phi Omega; Joe Franz, Vice 
President of Theta Tau and mem
ber of the Technical staff; and A1 
Schindler is on the wrestling team, 
Technical staff, and a member of 
Tau Delta Phi social fraternity.
Sigma Alpha Iota Plans 
Recital by Sophomores
Sigma Alpha Iota is sponsoring a 
Sophomore Recital which will be 
held at four oclock on Wednesday 
in the Exhibition Room. The public 
is cordially invited to attend, so 
so come to what the sophomore 
music students are accomplishing. 
The program is as follows:
Pat Baum and Irene Chotiner..............
........Double Concerto for ViolinBach
Jane Peters... Sonata for Flute and Piano 
Margaret Dunlap, violin.. Spanish Dance 
Granados-Kriesler
Helen Goldstein, voice.............................
..................................... AmanilliCoccini
Aureen Litt, piano.....................................
...................Hungarian RhapsodyLiszt
Marilyn Badger, cello...............................
.................................Two German Dances
Eleanor Gustafson, piano.........................
....................................... ScherzoChopin
Jane Ann Bates, violin.............................
.................................. LubesliedKriesler
Ritta Callery, voice . ...........................
....................Lunge Del Caro MinBine
Hazel Hay, piano .....................................
... Wedding Day at TrauhaeganGrieg 
Lettie Gerhart, organ.
addition to the moon, there will be 
many of those colorful things asso
ciated with fall  vivid red-gold 
leaves, corn stalks, pumpkins, rustic 
fences, and perhaps even a swinging 
gate to make the scene complete.
Casey Stine is in charge of the 
Entertainment Committee. The 
Drama Department will furnish en
tertainment for the intermission. 
Alpha Phi Omega is taking care of 
refreshments. Cake, donuts, and per
haps some nice soft cider will be 
provided.
The Autumn Frolic will be infor
mal. Tickets will be sold every day 
in Skibo and in Industries Hall at 
lunch-time, or they can be bought 
from any member of Student Coun
cil.
Now is the time for all good Tech
ites to guarantee themselves a good 
social calendar for this year by sup
porting this first school dance. We 
can hardly expect organizations to 
schedule big events if they are 
doubtful about support for them. If 
we encourage the various organiza
tions by attending this dance, we 
can expect future social affairs to 
be bigger and better.
Thistle Lists Pictures
The following is a list of addition
ally scheduled Thistle pictures. 
Those organizations who have not 
been listed previously should con
tact Jean Price. Dannie Franks will 
accommodate organizations who 
failed to appear at the specified 
time; in such cases, the organization 
is asked to pay for their picture. 
Thursday, Nov. 1
12:30Kappa Alpha Theta (Office**?^
12:35Kappa Alpha Theta (Actives) 
'12:45Kappa Alpha Theta (Pledges) 
12:50Pi Tau Sigma 
1:00Theta Xi (Officers)
1:05Theta Xi (Actives)
1:15Theta Xi (Pledges)
1:20Modern Dance Club 
1:30Radio Club 
1:40Citcom Club 
1:50Tec vets 
2:00Girls Glee Club 
2:10Thistle Staff 
2:20Technical Staff 
2:30Department of Chemical Engineer
ing
2:40Department of Chemistry 
2:50Department of Civil Engineering 
3:00Department of Electrical Engi
neering
3:10Department of Mechanical En
gineering
3:20Department of Humanistic and So
cial Studies 
3:30Department of Metallurgical En
gineering 
3:40Department of Mathematics 
3:50Department of Physics 
4:00Department of Printing 
4:10Department of Architecture 
4:20Department of Drama 
4:30Department of Music 
4:40Department of Painting, Design, 
and Sculpture.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1045
Zifoi'i. A>uHciuMSi Student; Council Minutes
6< . . . shall not have died in vain99
Throughout the duration of the actual conflict of World War Two, the 
citizens of the United States of America berated the policymakers of World 
War One for their inadequate solution of the world wide maladjustment 
which brought about that struggle. They criticized the peace terms which 
were given to Germany in 1919; they criticized the organization of the 
League of Nations; and they criticized the action of our own leaders in 
not joining that league. They inveighled against the isolationist policy that 
the United States followed from 1919 to 1941, and they shook their heads 
over the blindness of Chamberlins appeasement of Hitler in the crucial 
months before the war. Twenty years from now Americans will be criti
cizing todays leaders and policy makers for their failure to carry to com
pletion that task to which they so nobly dedicated themselves  the 
winning of the peace. Todays leaders will be condemned as were yester
days for the future catastrophe. But today as yesterday, the real blame 
lies not on the heads of those few men in the places of power and authority, 
but on the heads of those very citizens who have been and always will be 
so eager to cast blame upon the leaders of past generations. The responsi
bility for securing peace in the future lies with us, the citizens of America 
and of the world, and not with the men we have authorized to lead us. It 
will be the citizens of the world and not their leaders who will forget the 
horrors of war and plunge us again into the holocaust. It may be true that 
the American policymakers already are forgetting the lesson of the neces
sity for International Cooperation that they presumeably learned during 
the war. It may be said that it is the policymakers who are so ridiculously 
attempting to keep the workings of the atomic bomb a secret, but in the 
last analysis, it is the people who are permitting the leaders to forget the 
higher goals and to lapse again into the practice of petty power politics. If 
the people do not forget they can force their leaders to remember.
Have the people already forgptten? Have you forgotten why the great 
war was fought and who fought it? Do you remember who died for it? 
Do you know that at this very minute your actions and the actions of the 
men you have appointed to lead you are rendering that great sacrifice of 
time and life of no value. Do you remember the look on your brothers 
face as he tried to tell you how it was? Do you remember that awful feeling 
that came with the knowledge that someone might be dying beyond the 
reach of your love? Do you remember how well you knew that it must 
never happen again? Have you forgotten?
Where is the proof that you remember? It was all very well for you 
to listen eagerly for the news and to argue violently about government 
policies when your personal safety and the very life of someone you loved 
was involved. It was all very well to think of the soldier with pride and 
pity when he was doing a glorious and a thrilling job. It was very noble 
to give your money to the War Fund and to buy a war bond or two when 
you and everyone about you was immersed in the patriotic fervor inspired 
by the conflict. But can you feel the meaning and the importance of the 
daily news now that the awful urgency is past? Can you remember the 
soldier in Germany or Japan who is plugging away at the job of winning 
the peace as he did that of winning the war? Have you given a really 
large contribution to the United War Fund and will you buy a Victory 
Bond now that the bands are no longer playing and the shouting has 
ceased? Do you realize that the battle for the peace is even more chal
lenging than was the war?
You must not be one of those who has forgotten the war and the 
lessons it taught. You must remember the magnificent job our men have 
done. You must try to repay them at least in part for it by subscribing to 
from which come the funds which make their lives easier 
and by buying the Victory Bonds which will bring them 
stablish them in a prosperous land. You must remember the 
dream tor which the war was fought, and you must make sure that our 
leaders secure for us the peace and security which make up that dream. 
If you remember, the future may ljot bring chaos; but if you forget, the 
end is inevitable.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MmKHHTCD POU NATIONAL. *DVEHTIMJ BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
Car negiTtV ol.3 9N4 AtRE3 93 A3 
Cmicaoo  Boston  Los Ameus  S Francisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief .........................SC. 6519
Business Manager..................EM. 9424
Second Meeting 1945-46 
October 13, 1945.
The meeting was cailed to order at 9:30 
a. m.
Present: Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder,
Straka; Misses Emmel, Haushalter, Irwin.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Elections Committee:
Miss Haushalter reported that the pe
titions for the Student Council Election to 
be held October 19, 1945, from 11:00 to 
2:00 had been received. The nominees 
for this election are:
Fine Arts: Voting membersJane
Grim, Millicent Hay, Thomas Lakowski.
Non-voting members  Dell Miller, 
Ainslie Bricker, George Yurchison.
M.M.C.C.: Voting membersIris Kwall, 
Dotty Stewart, Mary Lou Lerch.
Non-voting membersJean Price, Mary 
Jane Horridge, Lois Brunn.
Engineering: Non-voting members
Merle Wolff, Murray Slone, Benjamin 
Schwartz, Joseph Nutter, Norman Zuerner.
Miss Haushalter moved that the peti
tion from Margaret Morrison Senate to 
hold an election of the Freshmen Class 
for officers of that class: namely, Presi
dent, Vice President, Secretary, Treas
urer, and Senate Representative, be ap
proved. This election would be held 
Tuesday, October 23, 1945, from 12:00 to 
2:00 with office petitions due in Miss 
Byrds office Friday, October 19, 1945, at 
5:00. M.M.C.C. Senate will be responsible 
for the honesty of this election.
Motion carried.
Publication Committee:
Mr. Binder moved that the remainder 
of the Scottie staff be approved as ap
pointed by the Publications Committee: 
Associate EditorEvelyn Kane. 
Features EditorJack Sherwood. 
Circulation ManagerBurt Quint. 
Exchange EditorBill Doherty.
Photo EditorDanny Franks.
Motion carried.
Budget Committee:
Miss Emmel moved that every organi
zation that received an appropriation be 
listed for permanent records as getting a 
maximum or basic appropriation and a 
minimum appropriation. These organiza
tions have been deemed as service organ
izations in that they benefit the whole 
student body and permit any student who 
qualifies to participate in them and as 
long as they hold their high standards 
they will receive an appropriation. The 
following rules and regulations will have 
to be followed by these organizations:
1. Each one must hand in a budget to 
Student Council every spring before the 
following operating year.
2. These organizations will operate on 
a yearly basis. Any balance that they 
may have at the end of the year will be 
given to the organization for the next 
years operations in the following way: 
The balance will be used towards the 
difference between the appropriation de
sired for next year and the minimum ap
propriation. If the balance is greater 
than this difference, then the remainder 
after the difference is payed will be 
placed in the Student Council Fund set 
aside for emergencies that may arise dur
ing the year.
3. If so desired, an organization may 
petition Student Council for an increase 
in base appropriation. The list of basic 
and minimum appropriations will be set 
up at a future date upon final consider
ation of all the appropriations.
The following budgets have been ap
proved:
Thistle
Carnegie Home Economics Club 
Carnegie Womans Christian Association. 
Citcom Clan 
Cwens
Mortar Board 
Womens Glee Club
The following budgets were returned 
to the organizations to be revised:
Tartan
Tecvets
Womens Dorm Council 
Mens Glee Club
The I.R.C. budget has been considered 
and upon agreement by the organization 
to certain rules to be set up by Student 
Council their budget will be approved.
The following budgets must be ap
proved as yet:
W.A.A.
Womens Guild 
Interhonorary Council 
M.M.C.C. Junior Class 
M.M.C.C. Senior Class 
Scottie
Student Handbook 
Miss Emmel moved that every organi
zation holding an All-School Affair must 
put up 75% of the total expense before 
the dance is authorized. If there is a loss, 
Student Council will bear up to 25% of 
the total cost.
Motion carried.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the petition 
from M.M. Senate to hold Freshman Color 
Dajp Assembly on Tuesday, November 13, 
1945, in the Little Theater, Fine Arts 
Building, be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the petition 
from Carnegie Womens Christian Associ
ation to hold a Big and Little Sister Tea 
on Monday, October 29, 1945, from 4:00 
to 6:00 in the Carnegie Union be ap
proved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg reported that the Stu
dent Council Dance, to be called Autumn 
Frolic, would have Jimmy Kayes Orches
tra, inasmuch as the other bands were 
already signed up.
Mr. Aisenberg reported that a home 
basketball game falls on December 15, 
1945the date for the Winter Carnival. 
In view of this fact, it was decided that 
the Winter Carnival would be held Fri
day, December 14, 1945, away from
school. Mr. Aisenberg suggested that 
juke-box dances be held after the basket
ball games instead of reviving teadances. Mr. Aisenberg appointed Adeline 
Herlick, Bernard Perlman, Mina Widersheim to his Social Committee.
Freshman Regulations Committee:
It was decided that the Freshman Re
port Cards would be collected and Court 
would meet this week.
Old Business:
Whos Who In American Colleges and 
Universities, a magazine recognizing 
campus notables, does not cost any money, 
and it was suggested that Council decide 
whether it would be desirable to make 
Carnegie Tech a participant.
New Business:
The Freshman Questionnaires regard
ing their interests in activities are open 
to any authorized person who desires to 
look at them.
Meeting adjourned at 1:00.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin, Secretary.
Third Meeting, 1945-46 
October 21, 1945.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 
p. m.
Present: Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder,
Nutter, Stine, and Straka; Misses Clark, 
Emmel, Haushalter, Irwin, Price and 
Stewart.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Elections Committee:
Miss Haushalter read the results of the 
Student Council Election held October 19, 
1945 to replace Marge Loeffler and Sue 
Crobaugh as voting members and to add 
non-voting members from M.M.C.C., 
Fine Arts, and Engineering. They were:
M.M.C.C.: Voting member  Dotty
Stewart.
Non-voting membersJean Price, Mary 
Jane Horridge.
Fine ' Arts: Voting member  Thomas 
Lakowski.
Non-voting memberGeorge Yurchi
son.
Engineering: Non-voting memberJoe 
Nutter.
Budget Committee:
It was moved that the following 
budgets be approved by the Student 
Council:
Student Council 
M.M.C.C. Senate 
Thistle
I.R.C.
Interhonorary Council
Motion carried.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg reported that the Fresh
man Mixer held October 20, 1945, in This
tle Hall was a tremendous success.
Mr. Aisenberg reported that because of 
home and away basketball games falling 
on the dates of some All-School Dances, 
these dates would be changed. They are:
Interfraternity Dance to be held Dec. 7, 
instead of Dec. 8, 1945.
Winter Carnival to be held Dec. 14, in
stead of Dec. 15, 1945.
Interhonorary to be held February 15, 
instead of February 16, 1945.
It was also suggested that Spring Car
nival be held Thursday, Friday, and Sat
urday, May 2, 3, 4, 1945.
It was moved that a recommendation 
continued on page 6
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor ...  ................................................................................... ............................ Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .......................................................................................................Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Boo Girts
Reporters: Jeanne Boltey, Lucille Emmel, Cammille McCullough, Don Clendenen, 
Joe Stein, Imogene Grove, Audrey Wilkens, Rosemary Lang, Georgette Paljug, 
B. J. Kreimer, Bob Teasdale, Jane Hussey.
Pictures by Howard Dunn, Kenny Lipman, Ivan Sturman and Danny Franks

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Sealon Qfi&nl
Dramats Present 
Romantic Young Lady
The Romantic Young Lady did not, 
as its heroine says, probe the 
depths of a womans soul, but it did 
send its audience away still laugh
ing happily after last Saturdays 
opening performance. We could not 
help thinking what a pleasant 
change it was from the dull plays 
so often chosen by the Drama De
partment in which nobody, even, I 
strongly suspect, the actors, had 
much fun. We do not mean that 
every show should be the feather
weight comedy The Romantic 
Young Lady is, but good plays are 
not necessarily dull plays, even 
though the Drama Department all 
too frequently tries to pass off dull 
plays as ART.
The story takes place in 1910 
when the Equal Rights For Wom
en campaign was just beginning 
to get under way. Now, Rosario had 
probably never heard of the women 
who wanted to vote, but she was 
feeling the pressure of her times, 
and had a few ideas of her own 
about latch-keys and being herself 
rather than somebodys sister. How
ever, she was having a little difficul
ty reconciling these new ideas to 
her broad streak of sentimentality 
and her taste for the highly roman
tic novels of Don Luis Felippe de 
Cordov whom she has long worship
ped from afar.
It is an extremely smooth produc
tion, well knit by B. Iden Paynes 
expert direction. Gerry Gedd was 
a completely charming Rosario; Ray 
Boyle was pleasant enough although 
uninspired as the writer; Ellen 
Hovde made a stately Dona Barbarita, and Casey Stine played 
Casey (This isnt a misprint. I 
meant he played Casey Stine) with 
dash and enthusiasm to the great 
delight of the audience. The only 
really weak performance was given 
by the actress in the second act. Her 
characterization depended entirely 
upon a red velvet costume, an enor
mous hat laden with ostrich plumes, 
and a fan with which she punched 
the air violently at every opportu
nity. The costumes were lovely, particulaly Gerry Gedds. We liked the 
first set the better of the two. Tlie 
one in the second act rather hit you 
in the eye. We are very sorry that 
The Tartan had to go to print be
fore we had an opportunity of see
ing the second cast, but we hope 
they do just as nice a job as the first.
Thistle Sponsors Contest 
For School Organizations
The Thistle is sponsoring a contest 
among sororities and fraternities to 
see who can sell the most year
books. Each fraternity and each so
rority will send one representative 
to Industries Hall at four oclock, 
Friday, November 2. Each will be 
given subscription books for his fra
ternity to sell from. The contest will 
run November 2 until November 30; 
no sales will be accepted before or 
after these dates. The winner will 
pull a double page in the Thistle to 
be used for candid shots of their 
members. All for free too!
The selling price of the Thistle 
has been raised to $2.50, but the big 
improvements in the book will more 
than make up for tfce added cost. 
Okay you salesmen, get ready, get 
set, Go!
. . . Frosh In Skbo . . .
A new phantom is haunting 
Skeebo in the form of Freshman 
Bridge. The Freshman have show
ed those upperclassmen that they 
can make a Grand Slam, too. Every 
free hour that a freshman has, you 
will find her playing at her favorite 
game, bridge. I say her, because 
the women are the ones that are 
holding the torch for Freshman 
Bridge. The girls are not only beau
tiful, but they know their stuff, too. 
Let the little ones have their fling, 
the upperclassman say, for, after 
the freshies receive their first grades 
the only bid will be a pass pass that 
chem quiz or history test.
Sometimes there is a delegation 
of girls with green arm bands (Pitt 
to you), which comes up to see the 
beautiful Skibo and sup its morsels
of delicacy. Even these girls can 
yield a mean trump. But, just to 
show the fellows that they are not 
forgotten (how could they be), it 
must be admitted that they, too, are 
really extreme in their bridge. 
Grabbing a slide rule each time they 
are in doubt as to whether the ace 
of trump has been played, they 
prove a dangerous foe to even the 
female frosh. As a freshman myself, 
I must say that the upperclassmen 
are friendly when it comes to find
ing a fourth for bridge. They ask 
anyone to play, anyone who knows 
the difference between black and 
red. So, remember, whenever you 
see the dinks come sailing in and 
you want a fourth for bridge, you 
know where you can find itjust 
ask the freshmen!
Council Ball Promises 
To Be Huge Success
If you long for a big moon, soft 
music and your favorite Pin-UpGirl, dont seek further. Student 
Council has lined up these auspici
ous circumstances for you. The only 
actions necessary on your part are 
to get yourself a ticket to the 
Autumn Frolic next Saturday night 
and to find yourself a Pin-Up-Girl. 
It is to be an all-school dance, so 
Maggie Murphs might be wise to 
hunt for a Pin-Up-Boy (Ed. Note: 
Why dont some of you learn to iceskate? That blond giant, Bobby 
Specht, who skates in the Ice-Capades looks like Van Johnson, only 
more so!)
You cant lose, because Student 
Council is even providing a rustic 
setting to enhance the sophisticated 
beauty of ravishing Tech girls. 
There have been rumors that coun
try atmosphere might be complete, 
even to hay stacks in the gym. This, 
however, is not wholly necessary 
since gas rationing is off and the 
likelihood of coming in a horse and 
buggy is much decreased. It would 
add a romantic touch though.
The final touch, the crowning 
achievement, will be the moon, the 
harvest moon which you have been 
looking at lately while you were 
wishing for that soft music and your 
Pin-Up Girl to dance with. It is be
ing moved into the Mens Gym on 
Saturday night just for your pleas
ure.
Not only has Student Council pro
vided the time, the place, and the 
smooth music of Jimmy Kayes or
chestra, but they have seen to it 
that there will not be a dull moment 
for you (provided that you bring 
your Big Moment with you). Casey 
Stine is chairman of the entertain
ment committee, which is going to 
entertain your during intermission.
Everybody who wants to have a 
good time will be there on Saturday 
night. Ruth Guberman is coming 
with Dimpledneez OSchnook.
It is going to be an evening with 
lots of potential fun. All that the 
Autumn Frolic needs is you to come 
and enjoy yourself.
Even if the current exhibit were 
not entitled Painting in the United 
States, one would surely know that 
it is a cross-section of American 
painting. A few of the canvases, typ
ical American scenes, monotonous 
and non-expressive in their natural
ism, were presented, appealing for 
the most part, to the people who 
sigh and say, My, isnt that exactly 
like real life; I can see every blade 
of grass. They are merely pretty 
pictures. Esther Williams Playing 
With the Duck, and Eugene Paul 
Ullmans FootballWooster School 
are examples of this naturalistic ap
proach.
Extremely different from the pho
tographic is the type of painting 
done by Louise Pershing, Samuel 
Rosenberg, and Robert Gwathmey. 
Lullaby by the latter is especially 
impressive, being one of the few 
paintings in the exhibit that you 
walk away thinking about. Very an
alytical in approach and limited in 
color, the painting is skillfully plan
ned to accentuate the rhythmic flow 
of line and movement of plane. It is 
honest and expressive in its primi
tivism.
Exhibit of Painting In The United States 
Shows Many Variations of American Art
Also in the field of abstracts, but 
non-associative, is Russell Twiggs 
Celestial Carriagean exciting ar
rangement of abstract shapes that 
actually appear to be vibrating on 
the wall. One stops' to wonder if the 
painting is not hanging crooked. Be
cause of the direction of lines in the 
painting, it seems to turn and twist 
toward the left. In fact it seems to 
be walking on the wall.
In the realm of realisma nat
uralistic situat ion interpreted 
through the artists personalityis 
John Carrolls The Children. The 
group is painted sensitively, stress
ing the point that there is interest in 
the most casual situation. The white 
garments of two of the figures are 
dramatized and create a kind of 
aesthetic feeling. But the facial ex
pressions are identical. His three 
figures bear the same melancholy 
look Carroll seems to have a liking 
for.
John Rogers Cox impresses us 
once again this year with the same 
huge imposing cloud which we saw 
last year hanging heavy over the 
same flat land. Only this time it is 
a rain cloud.
Realistic in approach, but fantas
tic in effect is Ivan LeLorraine Al
brights very detailed and illusioncreating On Request. Also realistic, 
but more simple and direct is 
Kuniyoshis Mother and Daughter, 
in which he makes use of a peculiar 
color scheme.
Those interested in post-card art 
should enjoy Over the Bridge to 
Grandmas House by Anna Mary 
Robertson Moses. It is trite in sub
ject and superficial but it has an 
amusing character.
Of the two more successful por
traits are Ester Topp Edmonds 
Girl In White Blouse, subtle and sol
emn; and James Chapins Negro 
Girl, a depressing figure with ex
pressive hands.
On the whole the exhibit is more 
rich and vivid than usual. It has 
more variety in the type of painting, 
and most of the artists have moved 
from their usual scope of subjects. 
The tension seems to have given 
way to a general emotional freedom. 
Anyone would find it exciting and 
should find time to take at least a 
dog trot through the galleries.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945
Intramural League 
Enters Final Stage 
Of Stiff Competition
In the scramble which has devel
oped in the Intramural football 
league, the question arises concern
ing who will finally emerge the con
queror. Last week it looked prac
tically certain that the winner of 
the Scobell Hall-Delt fray would 
probably emerge victorious this 
season since they had been rolling 
over the opposition hands down. 
Therefore, when the Delts were 
rudely knocked from the ranks of 
the undefeated by Scobell to the 
tune of 13-12 (the original score,
17-12, was lowered as the result 
of a protest by the Delts), Scobell 
was practically proclaimed king. 
However the results this week prov
ed otherwise. The Phi Kaps on 
Monday knocked Scobell from the 
ranks by a score of 5-4, the Phi 
Kaps scoring on a series of quick 
plays in the first five minutes of 
play, and staving all atempts by 
Scobell to roll over a score. Scobells four points were scored on 
first downs. Other results of th day 
showed the PiKAs victorious over 
the Independents by a score of 33- 
17, and the DUs were losers to the 
SAE fraternity by the score of 22-6. 
On the following day the Phi Kaps, 
previous winners over undefeated 
Scobell, were rudely knocked from 
their high-flying position by the 
Betas to the tune of 13-7. The Delts, 
who had their hopes rejuvenated by 
Scobells defeat, were again beaten 
by the DUs by a score of 11-8. The 
game ended with the Delts on the 
DU 3 yard line and darkness rapid
ly setting in. The day also saw the 
Independents go down to defeat by 
the score of 14-7. SAEs were the 
victors. Friday did not help out the 
arrangement of league standing 
either, since the DUs were defeated 
by the Phi Kaps 18-6; the Delts 
were defeated by the PiKAs 21-2; 
and Beta Theta Pi emerged victor
ious over Theta Xi, 18-6. All games 
on Tuesday were postponed because 
of the rain. At the present time I
Swimming Team Begins 
Practice for Season
Yesterday marked the opening of 
the Tech Swimming season, (at 
least as far as the team is concern
ed) for that is the first swimming 
practice. This will be the nineteenth 
year for Techs varsity swimming 
team, and Mr. Kisedorphs eigh
teenth year as coach. Coach is put
ting a call out for all boys interested 
in varsity swimming, no matter 
what year they are. Places are open 
as swimmers and as managers of 
the team. Meets are being scheduled 
on a home and away basis. Anyone 
interested should report to the gym 
at five oclock. Practice is to be held 
on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and 
Friday, from 4-6 P. M. This was ar
ranged so that a swimmer who has 
no class in the afternoon can swim 
from 4:00 to 5:00 while those unable 
to attend the early practice can 
swim from 5:00 to 6:00. On Wednes
day, the only practice will be held 
from 5:00 to 6:00. Lets go fellows! 
Anyone interested in a place on the 
team as a swimmer or manager 
should report at 5:00 sharp.
think it would be a good idea to ask 
if there is anyone who would care 
to hazard a guess as to the winner 
of the league. If you have any ideas 
you had better keep them silent, for 
the way things are going, the win
ner is going to be hard to find. 
Standings of Touch football league
W.L.T.
Beta Theta Pi.............401
310
320
Phi Kappa..................320
Sigma Alpha Epsilon..212
Pi Kappa Alpha.........?20
Delta Tau Delta.........?,30
Theta Xi ....................031
040
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
SPORTS
Booters Take First Games
Tie this
Succeeding generations of 
many of Pittsburghs pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK'
MEMIER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA
While the rest of the student body 
at this place has been quietly at
tending to its books (it says here), 
a gang of guys have been knocking 
themselves out in the Bowl every 
afternoon. What do they do? They 
play soccer, and whats morethey 
play good soccer. The team has haul
ed out its size 40 pants twice so far 
this season, beating Allegheny Col
lege, 1-0 and Thiel College, 3-0.
The most amazing thing about the 
Allegheny game was the sight of a 
soccer field with grass. Our gang 
hadnt seen one like that since the 
gophers chewed up Techs home 
grounds in the spring of 1920. Be
sides being green, however, the field 
was very muddy. In fact, most of 
the Tech clan was calling each other 
Sambo by the time the game 
started and Heckman had to be 
given a pair of water-wings to keep 
from drowning in front of the goal. 
The game itself was awkward be
cause of the condition of the field, 
and the only score came in the first 
quarter on a boot by Resat Aynaoglu (just call me Hay), Tech centerforward. Some timely kicking by 
the Tartan defense made that one 
goal stand up, and, when the referee 
wiped the mud out of his face after 
blowing the final whistle, it still 
stood, Tech 1, Allegheny 0.
The Thiel game, played in The 
Bowl, was just a mater of when. 
From the start, Thiel was outclassed 
and it was merely a question of 
time before Tech could score. That 
time was too long in coming for 
Tech to be satisfied, though. The 
first half found the ball in Thiel 
territory 99 44/100 per cent of the 
time, but a couple of bad passes and 
Lady Luck saved the visitors, and 
at half-time, the game was still 
scoreless.
After feasting on gum, orange 
peels and some stuff which was sup
posed to be water (but tasted more 
like melted K-ration), the teams 
came out for the third stanza. It was 
still the same old storyArt Trefry 
making some nifty plays at righthalfback, Bob Williams getting that 
big foot of his in the right place at 
the right time, and Red Kindblom 
making his weird dashes up from 
fullback to break up Thiel plays. 
Then the break came. Late in the 
quarter a Thiel back stuck his mits 
on the ball and Tech was given a 
penalty kick. Ray Aynaoglu took 
advantage of the situation and 
banged home the first Tartan score.
As the teams changed goals for
the fourth quarter, Carnegie got in
to a huddle and, after discussing the 
affairs of the world, the halfbacks 
informed the forwards that another 
goal in the near future would be 
appreciated no end. It took the for
wards just fifteen seconds to fulfill 
the request. They went straight 
down the field and Aynaoglo 
shot another past the Thiel goalie 
for his second score of the day. 
Claude Mellott, who thought it was 
about time he took part in the fes
tivities, grabbed the kick-off and, 
finding nobody to pass to, went past 
the whole Thiel defense all by his 
lonesome to rack up the final tally.
Sidelights on the game: Thiel, 
which has a student body of about 
250, had approximately 60 rooters. 
Tech had 20.
Why was Heckman hollering so 
loudly from the Carnegie goal? 
Partially to make up for the lack 
of Tech rooters, but mostly to keep 
from falling asleep. (He only got 
his hands on the ball twice.)
To pick a star of the game would 
be impossible as all the gang is in 
for a share of the credit, including 
Coach OConnor who took 22 
strangers and made them into a 
winning soccer team in just nine 
days of practice.
CarnegieThielHeckmanGMeckleyHartman (Capt.)LFLongKindblomRFNoskeTrefryLHGosnellWilliamsCHFauthPerryOLBoninKingRHThalmanErkunILAlvinAynaogluCFGomesMellottIRFuscaMcMullanOROtt
UNITED WAR FUND
THE COMMUNITY FUND

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Football Situation 
Explained to Students
It has been a source of increas
ing annoyance to members of this 
staff that numbers of freshman have 
been sounding off with very search
ing questions about Techs little 
football team that isnt here. Such 
questions reveal an empty place in 
the hearts of these frosh which 
should be occupied by a deep sense 
of faith and trust in their Alma Ma
ter.
Because this situation has been 
caused in part by our own failure to 
properly indoctrinate the newcom
ers with the ideals and customs of 
our institution, we have taken upon 
our broad but rather tired shoul
ders the task of clearing the campus 
air of the odor of burning pigskin. 
Rather than present our own opin
ions, however, we shall outline the 
existing facts with cold disinterest 
so that all may judge for them
selves.
Pitt has a football team! Re
member, this is a purely factual re
port; but the implications of the 
statement are self-evident.
Although many schools take great 
pride in having eleven men on the 
football field through thick and 
thin, Tech has maintained that tiddledy-winks can be played just as 
well indoors. We make no comment 
if you like outdoor tiddledywinks, more power to you.
During the last few years Tech 
has been composed to a large extent 
of women, and although we *have 
had it on good authority that their 
intramural basketball team would 
be a natural on the football field, the 
Institute has refused to stoop so 
low.
This fall things are back in the 
groove again. The freshman class is 
almost normal (in numbers). But 
there has been no time to ferret out 
eleven good men and true to carry 
the honor of CIT into battle.
Next yearyes! But right now 
ambition must wait on honor.
Passers Open Season 
December 1 At Geneva
This year Tech faces a full and 
tough basketball season, with the 
Tartans scheduled for twenty 
games against the best teams in the 
Tri-State area. The first one will be 
played December 1, at Beaver Falls, 
against Geneva. We will meet our 
next opponent, Penn State, on our 
own court December 5. The rest of 
the schedule is as follows:
WhenWhoWhere
Dec.6Juniatac.r.T.
Dec.8AlleghenyMeadville
Dec.12WestminsterC.I.T.
Dec.18Slippery Rock 
State Teachers
Slippery Rock
Jan.5CaseCleveland
Jan.9PittPitt
Jan.12W. & J.C.I.T.
Jan.19West VirginiaMorgantown
Feb.2JuniataHuntingdon
Feb.6PittC.I.T.
Feb.13Penn StateState College
Feb.16AlleghenC.I.T.
Feb.23WestminsterNew Wilmington
Feb.27Slippery Rock 
State TeachersC.I.T.
Mar.2CaseC.I.T.
Mar.9West VirginiaC.I.T.
Team Schedules 
Soccer Gaines
After a two year rest, Carnegie 
Tech was once more represented 
on the soccer field when a newlyorganized Skibo team engaged Al
legheny College Saturday, October 
20, at Meadville, Pa.
Due to the increase in enrollment, 
especially to the huge enrollment 
of veterans, it was possible for 
Coach Pat OConnor to issue a call 
for candidates October 4.
While the response was not as 
large as Coach OConnor anticipat
ed, ehere were easily enough 
men for two full teams. About 
half of the candidates have had act
ual playing experience. Among 
these are Jack Sherwood who was 
a regular at Tech before entering 
the service, Dick Heckman with 
two years experience at Swarthmore College, Bob Williams who 
played one year for the U. S. Naval 
Academy at Annapolis, and Joe 
Hartmen from Chapel Hill PreFlight.
In addition to these men, the booters will also include a United Na
tions quintet composed of Resat 
Aynogui, C. Atay, and Neuzat Erkin 
from Turkey; Alberto Carvajal of 
Puerto Rice; and S. H. Chang who 
represents China.
While the Plaid schedule is limit
ed to five games this year, three of 
them at home, it represents the first 
step of Tech in the return to a full 
time pre-war program.
The schedule follows:
Oct. 20Allegheny .............. Away
Oct. 27Thiel ...................... Home
Nov. 3Thiel ...................... Away
Nov. 10Oberlin .................. Home
Nov. 17Grove City.............Home
Former Tech Student 
Wins Radios Blind Date
A former student in Techs print
ing department won the much 
coveted date on Blind Date Radio 
Program on Friday, October 19. The 
lucky guy was Dick Dimusi, who is. 
now a Motor Machinists Mate in the 
Navy and Hails from North Canton, 
Ohio. Although he was up against 
stiff competition, Dick came through 
in real Tech style. As a result of his 
quick wit and personality he spent 
an evening at the Stork Club with 
Fern Bennett, a locely New York 
actress.
THE MOST HONORED 
WATCH ON THE
Skibo Scraps
CAMPUS
Tau Delts Hold Election
At a special meeting on Monday, 
October 21, Tau Delta Phi, mens 
social fraternity, completed the job 
of reorganizing for the new semes
ter by holding election of officers. 
The results of the election showed 
Bill Meyers as the new consul; Ben 
Schwartz, vice-consul; Burt Quint, 
social chairman and quaestor; and 
Joe Stein, historian. Joel Bigelman 
retained his job as scribe.
WINNER OF 10 
WORLDS FAIR 
GRAND PRIZES,
28 GOLD MEDALS 
AND MORE HONORS 
FOR ACCURACY THAN 
ANY OTHER TIMEPIECE
Question of the week . . . Why 
was John Rose stood up after the 
Allegheny soccer game? . . . Sally 
Rosenberg wants to know if Cubans 
are American citizens. . . . Dov 
Mossmand and Bud Yorkin were in 
town last week. . . . Note to in
structorsDont believe everything 
you read about Alice Skirpan. . . . 
Dixie Goldberg is supposed to quit 
school to become entangled in matri
mony. ... A certain Lt. Command
er seems to have his eye on the 
Theta table in the Skibo. . . . Dottie Tattersals Max is still here. . . . 
Ruth Pivirotto had a big surprise 
when a Lieutenant came to see her 
the other night. . . . George Phillips 
has been spending a lot of time in 
the architects drawing room. Who 
is she? . . . Vic Elliott, Howdie Griffner, and company went to the Illi
nois homecoming game.
Corgy Dunn seems to be eyeing 
all the girls in school. Watch out, 
girls . . . Rhoda Mears favorite 
saying, Isnt Bill wonderful? . . . 
Tau Delts Sherm Cohen and Jerry 
Mark in for the house party Satur
day. . . . The boys have coined a 
word for the Social Relations course. 
The word is Bliffy. . . . All the fe
males have been flustered over a 
handsome, suave vet. . . . Rumor 
has it that a certain Cwen broke a 
Birch Hall window with her head  
she was running down the hall and 
missed the last turn. . . . Danny 
Franks has developed a new drink. 
He calls it Mung. . . . Attraction 
at Scobell Hall on Friday  sixty 
beautiful girls. ... A certain fresh
man has been walking around school 
paying no attention to Frosh Regu
lations. What are we going to do? 
. . . Lu West has been hoping that 
some day some one will spell her 
name right  its not Lou or Lee!
Look on Joan Seldars right hand 
. . . Milton Levine is now at
U.C.L.A. . . . Do Jahn engaged to 
Pitt Med Student . . . Whats this 
we hear about Jeanne Boltey and a 
Kappa Sig pin separating . . . Doris 
Becker and Tony Arrot dating like 
mad ... It was Augie Binder and 
Lisabeth Kephart Saturday . . . 
Cookie and Merle seen behind a 
bar last Saturday night . . . Mike 
Riggle home . . . also Maurice 
Baldy home dating Mary McGuigan 
. . . weve heard rumors of the 
beyootifool Freshman girls; espec
ially Janet Gregorious . . . Fred 
Frank busy with his gal from St. 
Louis . . . Lt. de la Garza as a chap
eron is the nerts . . . Joany Braunston sleeping on Ben Schwartzs 
shoulder in the SkiboHmmm . . . 
Bobbie Jones and Ernie Balfrey 
having fun . . . Patty Werner galavanting this weekend; shes gone 
to Kentucky . . . Undernourished 
Tartan Staff is grateful for the 
platefuls of grub sent up last Friday 
night by A.P.O. . . . P.S. Any other 
contributions will be gladly accept
ed .. .
Thats all for this week, folks . . .
Womens Guild Plans 
Dance for Thanksgiving
Womens Guild is reviving the old 
custom of the annual Womens Guild 
dance this year. It will be held in 
the gym the night of November 17 
from 9 to 1. Music will be furnished 
by Brad Hunt and his orchestra.
The dance is to be completely in 
the old tradition. The custom of the 
women inviting the men is to be 
carried on. The women who invite 
men will pay for the tickets. The 
men will take care of the other ex
penses of going to a dance, such as 
corsages, etc. The dance will be 
semi-formal.
Tickets may be obtained from the 
members of the Guild. They will 
cost $2.40 per couple including tax.
ALBERT L. 
BRAHM CO.
The hest of everything to eat for 
Hotels. Clubs, Restaurants.
Institutions
406 Penn Avenue 
ATlantic 5500

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945
Wartime Research
Continued from page 1 
Engineering Hall.) The other part, 
supervised by Dr. F. Seitz, Head of 
the Department of Physics, was as
signed a contract with the Manhat
tan District.
The principal problem investigat
ed here involved the determination 
of the durability of various sub
stances under chain reaction condi
tions and a study of the properties 
of the materials used in chain reac
tion units. The contract was com
pleted quite satisfactorily, and all 
members participating in the work 
here shared in the blanket citation 
awarded for the Manhattan District 
Project.
A quotation from a letter will 
serve to further illustrate the im
portance and quality of the research 
consumated therea letter written 
by Dr. Arthur H. Compton, former 
nationally known member of the 
Physics Department at the Univer
sity of Chicago and present Chan
cellor of Washington University in 
St. Louis.
. . that I wish to convey my 
thanks for your work on the metal
lurgy project. Your efforts played an 
important part in determining the 
effects of neutron irradiation upon 
materials of construction, particul
arly graphite. I extend to you and 
your staff my deep personal appre
ciation ...
Almost every member of the
Student Council
continued from page 2
be sent to Executive Board to see if Fri
day, May 3, 1945 and Saturday, May 4, 
1945, be declared a holiday as it has been 
in the past.
Motion carried.
Womens Guild will have Brad Hunts 
Orchestra at their Semi-formal Dance 
November 17, 1945.
Tickets are now on sale for the Autumn 
Frolic November 3, 1945, and can be pur
chased from any Student Council mem
ber.
.t was moved that a War Bond Queen 
would be crowned at the Winter Carnival. 
This honor will go to the one selling the 
most bonds on campus.
Freshman Regulations Committee:
Miss Clark reported that a movie 
would be had for the next assembly. The 
first meeting of the Freshman Regula
tions Court met and found eleven fresh
men who had not passed the exam this 
summer, and a few who werent paying 
heed to the Regulations this fall.
It was decided that Cwens and APO 
would make up the Traditions Exam to 
be given November 6, 1945, subject to the 
approval of Student Council and Fresh
man Orientation and Regulations Com
mittee.
Points and Keys Committee:
Miss Stewart was appointed to check 
the Womens Point System.
Special Committee:
Mr. Stine reported that if Scotch and 
Soda is to be given at the Spring Car
nival it must be given without assistance 
from the Drama Department.
New Business:
Miss Price was to read over the Wom
ens Guild Constitution and report on it 
next week.
Mr. Lakowski was to read over a letter 
from a Negro Organization for the Bet
terment of Their Race and report on it 
next week.
In order to improve the efficiency of 
checking coats at dances, it was decided 
that three men would be employed.
Old Business:
It was moved that Student Council 
recommend to Dean Warden that Car
negie Tech does not wish to participate 
in the publication Whos Who in Amer
ican Colleges and Universities.
The meeting was adjourned at 9:30. 
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin, Secretary.
Physics Department participated in 
the research. Dr. F. Seitz, a fore
most authority on crystalline struc
ture in metals, spent most of his 
time in Chicago on consulting duty, 
but returned one week in three to 
supervise the work at Carnegie 
Tech. Dr. Otto Stern, recent Nobel 
Prize winner, and Dr. I. Estermann, 
both experts on molecular rays, did 
important work. Dr. R. J. Maurer, 
who specializes in nuclear physics, 
C. W. Williamson, who deals with 
electricity and electronics and Dr. 
J. S. Koehler, well known for his 
work on light brought to their prob
lems a wide variety of talent. Dr. 
Seitz, of the Department of Chem
istry, Dr. M. Gensamer and C; S. 
Barrett of the Metallurgical De
partment and some graduate stu
dents completed the roster of those 
working here.
In addition to Dr. Seitz in Chicago, 
many others were on consulting
leave. Dr. R. J. Maurer and Dr. O. 
C. Simpson are at present still in 
Chicago, but expect to return soon. 
Dr. J. C. Warner well-known author 
and newly appointed head of the 
Carnegie Tech Graduate Studies, 
and Dr. P. S. McKinney, both of 
the Chemistry Department were 
away from school. Dr. G. Derge of 
the Metallurgical Department com
pletes the list of those whom the 
country considered more valuable 
as consultants than as direct re
search men.
While few students had any in
dication of the work being done, 
they must certainly now agree that 
it was both valuable and important. 
Every Tech man and woman can 
feel justly proud of the contribu
tions which his school has made to 
the scientific progress and develop
ment which so greatly shortened the 
war.
Professor Gregg Heads 
Foreign Policy Assn
Reorganization of the Pittsburgh 
Branch of the Foreign Policy Asso
ciation has been revealed by chair
man Robert D. Gregg, head of the 
History Department of C.I.T. Head
quarters are located in the Cathe
dral of Learning. The program this 
year calls for two series of lectures 
by internationally-known authori
ties on topics dealing with political, 
economic and strategic aspects in 
the field of foreign affairs. One ser
ies, to be presented in Stephen Fos
ter Memorial, will be given free of 
charge, the other will be presented 
in Carnegie Music Hall.
Our victory makes today the time 
for the widest possibly study of 
world affairs, Dr. Gregg said The 
shaping of world peace is so import
ant that everyone in all walks of life 
must take part in it.
mm
Birmingham 
Fire Insurance 
Company
Of Pennsylvania
Dependable Insurance since 1871
FIRE -- MARINE - AUTOMOBILE
Pittsburgh's Oldest Fire In
surance Company wholly 
controlled by Pittsburgh in
terests.
1812 E. Carson Hemlock 2600
5353289402023434020234943494023494289402020202940294023494020234944334020202029434029494949434029434949494029402

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
(In which the End Man gets some 
things off his chest which make him 
feel good, if nothing else.)
Pitsburgh Round-Up: At the Litale Theatre all this week is The 
Romantic Young Lady. Matinee on 
Friday. At the Nixon, John Barton 
in Tobacco Road and we cant 
think of one good reason why. The 
Playhouse has Blithe Spirit with 
Helen Wayne Rauh. The Ice Capades are at the Duquesne Gardens. 
The week of November 5, Hasty 
Heart will come to the Nixon with 
John Dali. The Ballet Theatre will 
be at the Syria Mosque the 20th and 
21st of November. No matinees. . . . 
Four Shouts to the Wind Depart
ment: Shout One is for Joe Dove 
for accompanying the Dramats for 
the Freshman Mixer. With my voice, 
he should get the Purple Heart. 
Shout Two is for the new article in 
this months Coronet called Japan, 
Our New Frontier by Robert E. 
Sherwood. Shout Three is for last 
weeks Nixon play, State of the 
Union. It had something to say 
and said it in the best Lindsay and 
Crouse dialogue. Shout Four is for 
the Strand Theatre, in Oakland, for 
bringing back Wuthering Heights.
. . . Four Burps to the Breeze De
partment: Burp One is for the new
est Hollywood atrocities namely 
Duffys Tavern, Rhapsody in 
Blue, and Her Highness and the 
Bellboy. All of which shouldnt 
happen to war criminals. Burp Two 
is directed towards the press agent 
of one Joan Barry, who is singing 
out at the Riviera, Former Viva
cious Protegee of Charlie Chaplin! 
Ha! Ha! Ha! Burp Three is directed 
towards the Pittsburgh Sun Tele
graph for using their most tasteless 
and lurid literary style in writing 
up the recent Schenley Park mur
der. Burp Four is for both the Bean
ery and Skibo. The consensus of 
opinion is that no one likes either of 
them even half as much as they did 
the Grill, the Inn and that magnifi
cent Canteen. . . . This I Love De
partment: Cass Daley, the only good 
thing in Duffys Tavern. Ruth Pivorotto and her beautiful dancing. 
The Victor album of On The 
Town, directed by Bernstein; espe
cially Lonely Town and Times 
Square Bailer. My own poem on 
hearing that Bing Crosby will make 
a nation-wide concert tour:
On Throwing Up the Sponge 
With Tibbett emulating Sinatra 
And Sinatra imitating Bing,
With Bing similating Caruso; 
Death, Where Is Thy Sting?
On the menu at the Royal York: 
Cauliflower Polonnaise. Thats carry
ing the renewed interest in Sir 
Chopin entirely too far methinks.
. . . The Hey, Administration! 
Department: Would it be asking too 
much to have Thistle Hall re-dec
orated? The plaster is coming down, 
its an atrocious color, and the plat
form is much too low and much too 
small for anything larger than a 
flea circus. . . . Mundane Mum
mery: The other day, the garbage 
collector was collecting trash out in 
back of the Beta House. Going down 
the alley, the End Man heard him 
singing Lucky, lucky me. . . . Ive 
got a pocketful of dreams! Who can 
tell? . . . Advertisement in Bill
board: Wanted: Attractive young 
lady to handle pythons. Experience 
unnecessary. And why not? Movie 
marquee of some time back that 
tickled me then and still does now: 
Betty Grable in I Wake Up 
Screaming with Victor Mature. 
Dorothy Parkers poem:
Handsome is, as handsome does, 
Most fallacious of old wheezes  
Every one that handsome is,
Does as handsome darn well 
pleases.
Margaret Halsey said this of Saroy
an: The reason Mr. Saroyan is so 
fond of the Little People is that hes 
smart enough never to let them 
get a word in edgewise. On the 
Inner Sanctum program: Come in 
and have your picture taken next to 
the corpse. Youll look good next 
to him. . . . Gem of Wisdom De
partment: Schopenhauer said: A 
jackass cant expect to look in a 
mirror and see an Apostle. How 
many jackasses do! Ah yes . . . 
Lifes a Trap! . . . BANG!
(Next week, this column will be 
written by the ghost of Casey Stine, 
who will undoubtedly be heard sing
ing I Come Here To Spook for 
Casey.)
CAMPUS CLEANERS
"Quick Laundry Service"
Mens Suits Cleaned and Pressed . . 69c 
Trousers Cleaned and Pressed . . . 35c 
Ladies Skirts .... 35c up
Dresses..................................85c up
"We Call and Deliver"
Carnegie War Fund 
Off to Good Start
The current report on Carnegies 
Red Feather-United War Fund 
Drive has been announced by Mr. 
Kent Schaffer, chairman of the cam
pus drive. Campaign headquarters 
has received pledges and money to
talling $3,007.80, nearly one-half of 
the $6,050.00 goal. The student body, 
spurred by the pep talks of some of 
their number, have contributed 
$1,028.60. The remainder, $1,979.60, 
represents only 155 contributions 
from the 566 members of the fac
ulty, administration, and staff.
This year as in previous years the 
proceeds from the drive will be 
turned over to both local welfare 
agencies and war service agencies. 
While the war has been won, there 
is still an urgent need for funds to 
carry out the services at home and 
abroad for men and women of the
Alpha Phi Omega Holds 
Smoker in the Union
Alpha Phi Omega, national 
service fraternity, held a highly 
successful smoker Friday evening, 
October 26, at the Carnegie Union, 
for former Boy Scouts among the 
new class. Among the faculty rep
resentatives present were Mr. Eyman, faculty advisor, and Professor 
Shaffer, whose brief talk on Nation
al Recovery of Character was a high 
point of the evening. Other high
lights of the affair were a film, a 
song-fest, and a snack. The success 
of the event gives promise for 
building a better and greater service 
organization for the school.
armed forces as well as for rehabili
tation work in war-torn countries.
The Cashiers Office will receive 
pledges from those persons not con
tacted individually. This year lets 
all Be gratefulbe generous.
4609 Forbes StreetMU. 1288
All together they spell a
on Long Distance
You cant see the rush on Long Distance, but it's bigger than ever. 
Many thousands of the calls are from returning service men. So 
please help them get their calls through faster by limiting your 
call to five minutes when the operator requests it, and by making 
only necessary Long Distance calls in the evening.
it wont be like this forever. Were hard at it to take the pressure 
off our lines and to resume speed once more with the Bell 
Systems true standards of service. Next year we can tell you 
now2,100,000 miles of Long Distance Telephone circuits are 
to be added to the Bell System. Thats more Long Distance circuits 
than there were in both Great Britain and France before the war.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 19453Hxe Carnegie plaid
Union Reconverts 
To Usual Activities
Reconversion seems to be the 
topic of the day, and the evening 
students are very pleased now that 
the Carnegie Union has reverted 
back to its original purpose. The 
Union was intended as the social 
meeting gorunds for all students, but 
the war necessitated turning the of
fices and conference rooms into 
sleeping quarters for boarding stu
dents. Publication staffs were forced 
to use very inadequate, unsatisfac
tory space in Industries. This 
dampened the workers spirit some
what, but now that the Union is 
again open for general use and the 
Plaid has a private office on the 
third floor, everything seems to be 
running very smoothly.
To refresh the oldesters, memory 
and for the benefit of the newcom
ers to Tech, the second floor again 
houses the Conference Room used 
for Council Meetings. An attractive, 
homey livingroom, music room, din
ing rooms and well-equipped mod
ern kitchen form the first floor. The 
basement is again ready for pingpong fans. The Union has been pop
ular over a number of years with 
the Evening Students and is now 
the most prominent gathering spot 
on the campus. It is open every day 
until midnight and is intended as 
a home away from home.
Mrs. Amelia Hayes has taken over 
her duties as hostess in the Union. 
Her wonderful disposition and her 
ability to make the students feel at 
home have been instrumental in 
making her a success in her new 
job. Mrs. Hayes likes young people 
and assures us that she is fond of 
her work, and at this writing she 
can find no fault with the present 
set-up. Mrs. Hayes extends a warm 
welcome to all students to come to 
the Union and make themselves at 
home.
In passing, on behalf of all the 
Evening Students, may we express 
our deepest appreciation to Mrs. 
Ruth Hespenheide, former hostess 
of the Union, for her gracious help 
during her three years with us.
Miss Evening Student
After paying our social call on 
our Typical Male Evening Student 
of last week, it was decided we 
would now do justice to the more 
delicate species on campus, the girls. 
How about it boys?
We discover* our Typical Evening 
School Girl walking leisurely across 
campus after a hard days work at 
the office. After greeting many 
friends on the way, our prima donna 
finally arrives at class, and amazing 
as it may seem she is one of the very 
first to arrive after class has begun. 
The wonder girl is always prepared 
for the evenings lesson, .so that 
when called upon by the professor 
to recite she is ready with a good 
ansv r. hat being, I was unable to 
pure' ?ce our book at the book store, 
for t*ev were all out of them. With 
this r ,ir young lady is now sitting 
pretty for the remainder of the
The concern of many ladies! Is the 
blonde in Arts 402A really authen
tic? She at least seems to gather the 
ladsalmost like the rolling snow
ball, gathering strength as it goes 
along . . . Without the little roll 
book, as well as the groovy grin of 
Gus Kermis, who belongs partly to 
the evening school although he is a 
senior design student, an arts class 
wouldnt really be an arts class. At 
any rate, thats what the young 
ladies imply . . . Likewise, the girls 
get quite a buzz out of Mr. Hyde 
who professes that even chairs have 
souls. (I dont get it) . . . Bill Arbuckle (known otherwise as Big 
Bad Bill) who shares M.C. duties 
on Pittsburghs all night radio pro
gram, the 1500 Club, and Hilary 
Bogden, WJAS staff announcer and 
budding young dramatist, are both 
in Mrs. Skinners Tuesday night 
Voice and Speech class ... It looks 
like old home week when one looks 
inside the E83 physics class room in 
Engineering Hall on Friday night. 
For there, believe it or not, one sees 
the gray beards of Carnegie Tech 
Evening School: Chester Biscup,
Harry Mattern (the same erstwhile 
Engineering president, returned to 
school after a nine year lapseGod 
bless him!), Fred Vichich, Frank 
Locaria, Steve Marcinizyn, and Ed 
Williams to mention a few . . . 
And thanks a million to the Tartan 
Staff for the hotdogs and drinks it 
so generously supplied to fill out our 
Friday evenings program.
Help Carnegie Tech 
Meet Its War Fund Quota
Once again Carnegie is asking us 
the Evening Students to help raise 
their quota for the Community 
Fund. Not very much is expected of 
you. We know your argument is 
that you have given a donation else
where, but please, if every student 
would just give a quarter, it would 
help immensely. So when you are 
approached by the person who is 
soliciting donations from the Even
ing Students, just dig deep and 
bring that quarter out of your 
pocket.
evening. She listens intently though, 
and absorbes with great interest 
everything that is being said by the 
instructor. Time goes swiftly by for 
our classmate, and when class is 
dismissed she looks eagerly ahead 
to its next meeting.
We last find our Typical Girl 
Evening Student standing at the en
trance of the building hesitating to 
walk down the dark cut alone so late 
in the evening. She looks on waiting 
and hoping that a familiar friendly 
face would be going her way.Well 
boys, heres your chance to be a Sir 
Walter Raleigh, and were not re
ferring to a pack of cigarettes!
Eve School Fraternities 
Again Active On Campus
During the past few years, at
C.I.T. as at other institutions, stu
dent activities have been at a par
tial standstill. Now that the war is 
over many of the students who sup
ported the extracurricular activi
ties will be back on the campus 
ready to cooperate with renewed 
spirit to bring the activities up to 
their pre-war status. Among these 
activities are the fraternities who 
have as their members the evening 
school students.
The Phi Nu Fraternity founded in 
1916 has as its purpose the promo
tion of socialability among the even
ing school students of the three col
leges. By providing opportunities 
for the students to meet together at 
its social function, the goal is gen
erally achieved.
Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity is an 
honorary fraternity which selects as 
its members from those taking a 
part in the extracurricular activi
ties. In the 1925-26 school year this 
fraternity was first inaugurated, and 
in 1928 the founding was assured 
and a constitution adopted. This fra
ternity, having always taken an ac
tive part in the development of 
campus activities, has pledged its 
support to the student activity 
building project sponsored by the 
evening students. In 1930 the fra
ternity was recognized by the Even
ing Student Council.
The youngest fraternity, Sigma 
Delta Phi, has as its aim the creation 
of a feeling of good fellowship, the 
encouragement of the interest in 
campus affairs, the fostering of co
operation between groups and the 
promotion of scholarship. A set of 
standards set up by the organization 
is the basis on which students may 
enter.
Lets hope that these organizations 
once again will function as an in
tegral part of the evening students 
campus life.
While interviewing a number of 
Evening students, we were most for
tunate in obtaining an interview 
from Lt. F. Liu of the Chinese Navy. 
The Lieutenant, whose home is near 
Shanghai, is enrolled in both day 
and evening school, and is attend
ing Tech since our school has been 
selected by the Chinese Navy as the 
institution where he is to continue 
his studies in Metallurgy.
Although he has been in the Unit
ed States for only three months, he 
has acquired many friends here. 
This is not hard to understand as 
the Lieutenant has a very pleasing 
personality.
One of Lt. Liut hobbies is music; 
we wonder if he is a jitterbug? And 
surprisingly enough, the naval of
ficer is fond of swimmingreminds 
us of a busman who took a holiday.
Our only regret was that the class 
bell rang and the Chinese student 
had to depart to class when we 
would have enjoyed conversing with 
him much longer.
Thank you, Lt. F. Liu, for this 
most interesting interview, we ex
tend sincere wishes for success here 
at Tech and happiness in the future.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News EditorFrank Mihelich
Associate Editors Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School Staff.
StaffOlive Baumgardner Arlene McMurrayMartha Borkovich Edw. E. McDonaldBetty Hopkins Ann RawlingsFlorence Kelly Joseph M. RymarMary Kolson Anne SheckIrene Koerner Dorothy ShieldsEmma Jean Lewis Fred L. VichichNancy E. Lewis Cecille ZellnerJoy A. Ridgeway Jack Griffin
Student Assembly 
Postponed to Nov.
Evening Student Council is still 
having difficulties in finding a suit
able place for its first party. The 
date has been revised to November 
??. The entertainment and refresh
ment committees tell us that they 
have things well planned and all 
they are waiting for is the evening 
of the party, so please be patient 
with Council, and the Plaid will 
give the exact details of this affair 
in the next issueno fooling.
Impressions of Campus Life
When discussing first impressions 
of the campus, one would usually 
elaborate on the nosy, helter-skelter 
Where do I go from here  
Whats this card forIs this the 
right desk air of registration night. 
I wonder how many have thought 
of their first walk up the campus.
Starting up the walk from More* 
wood you climb up a few steps and 
there before you lies a darkness 
with somber shadows outlining the 
various buildings. You see little dots 
of light and wonder which one of 
these dots is your room, your class, 
and your professor. You get a sort 
of scared feeling because tonight is 
a new step, a new experience in 
your life. Numerous horrible 
thoughts fell your mind. What if I 
get lostWhat if I trip over some
ones foot on my way to a seat 
Surely he wouldnt ask questions 
the first night. You find your hands 
getting cold and clammy, and then 
suddenly you start walking slowly 
and breathing in the fresh night air. 
You hear all the sounds of nature. 
The trees rustling, the crickets 
singing, and then you notice how 
full the moon is and how it casts its 
light on the wings of a plane which 
is flying into the deep of the night 
to distance afar. Seeing that plane 
glide so easily and so carefree brings 
about a new calm. You know now 
that your first night of school will 
be a success. With such a beautiful 
restful setting there is no room for 
fear and uneasiness. You turn off 
that long walk an entirely different 
person than when you started. Your 
heart is gay, your step is light, as 
you cheerfully turn into your as
signed building for your first class.
