MenmustbeatUbertyto 
say in print whatever, they 
 have in -mind to say* pro
vided it wronge-no one*
' - CHARLES A; DANA .
MortarBoard Tea Danc^
Wednesday, Sept* 26 ' 
from 4 to 6 
Welcome Froeh Dance 
Saturday, Sept; 29 v 
from 9 to 1
VL; 29, NO, 1f-43 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OFTECNOtOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA;TUESDAY, SEPT.' 25, 1934
Fifteen Fellows, Six 
New Professors Are 
Appointed to Faculty
Dr. Hertha Kraus Named 
To Vacancy Left' 
By Mrs. Burnett
Donald R. Dohner 
Is Prof. of Design
Additions Made to Physics 
Department, Molecular 
Research Lab.
i number of ;w appointments have teen made to the faculty for this year, in addition, several new fellowships have been established and there will be IB teaching fellows including three who were on the faculty last year,.
Mr. Donald R. Dohner,. who was an Instructor in design here from 3923-1931, has been appointed asr sociate professorof design. During the absence of Mrs. Mary Clark Burnett this year. Dr. Hertha Kraus, former;-director of public welfare in Cologne, Germany,' will be professor of social work.' . Miss Ruth Lowman is to be instructor in social work. The acting head of the Department of Social Work during Mrs. Btfrnetts absence will be Miss A. Christine McBride.
Dr. Frederick Nims Rhlnes has been appointed instructor in metallurgy, and Dr. Oliver C. Simpson  is research assistant In the Reretlcal physics will be -Dr. Lloyd
A.. Young.1934 Graduate w.. . --------Miss Leah Marie Voegtly will
i FacultyVoegtly .....
take the place of Miss. Mary Hall,instructor in household economics, who was married this summer.Three. promotions were also announced: Roy Hilton to assistant professor of painting and design, Robert Schmertz to assistant professor of architectural design, and
toDavid V McBride ang. Boris N. Daniloff In. th&JtftStTfi ' search Laboratory-.-^ J
'Teacfiing Fellows Named The Teacbins Fellows for the year will be James E. Ablard, Samuel Eagle, Walter John Haring, Herbert S. Strlckler, and Leon Oacar WinBtroin in the Department of Chemistry; John W. Hackney in the Department of Civil Engineering; Charles B. Lyman in the Department ot Mechanical Englneering; Rush A. Lincoln in Metallurgy; William H. Bessey, E.H. Butler Kenneth G. Carroll, Joel M. Glass, Julius Halpern, and Jolm A: Ord -in the Department of Physics; arid Joseph L, Svjrbely, Department of Science in Margaret Morrison.Another member of the faculty will be Dr. James J. Stoker, Jr., who has been on leave . of absenc for three years. During this.
New Equipment 
Installed in Lab
Durl^e tte: 8uriTmer new'equipment; wagset ,uir In the Department of Mechanical Engineering for use In the Thumbing, Heating and Ventilation course., The  equipment includes: onestoker fired boiler, one boiler that can be either hand or oil fired, and a third boiler that can be hand or gas fired. These boilers are all installed -according -.to the test
___j and will be usedclency tests of the equipment. All ot the boilers are of the low sure steam type typical of res liai heating plants; ^'testing room, constructed to conform-with A. S. H. V. EJ. test standards, lias been completed and wlll.be used by upper classmen, oi ithe department to [determine the heating efficiency of Tadiators and' unit heaters; and a set up to be used in testing unit heaters only. This latter apparatus has thermocouples to rr..........the temprature of the air intake, of the air in the chamber, and o the air at the exhaust, pilot tibs. to. measure .the., velocity of the air at the exhaust, and an exhaust fan to maintain atmospheric pressure in the chamber."
Kiltie Band Practices 
For Saturday Game
jrhe first regular reharsal the Kiltie Band will be. held tonight at 7:30 in the Womens Gymnasium to practice for the Geneva - game Saturday -at Beavr Falls.'Uniforms;, having been cleaned and repaired; will lis assigned during the next few days and all freshmen .interested  in obtaining kilts are invited to attend this re-irtaraai-aud-ta wnlr Mr; Jv>im W. Wagenseil, 36, manager.The big trip of the football season will be the ..trip to the 'New ; York University ; game, Saturday. November. 3-: The group will leave
Captain Reginald. Whitaker, who Is the new head of the.R, O. T. C. Unit.
New Captain 
To Command 
R.O.T.C. Unit
Capt. Reginald Whitaker 
Takes Place of Capt. 
A. S. Ackerman
Captain Reginald Whitaker, ordered here from Fort Du Pont bjr the War /Department, will' relieve Captain Ackerman, who was
Receiving his West Polnti Commission, in June 1918, Captain Whitaker' began his .- military career.  After the close of .Great War,-.-.he . was sent overseas
1919. Upon his return, he i tloned at various times I and in the cavalry dtvisk Bliss and'Fort McIntosh in Texas and Fort Humphries in Virginia.
Sent Abroad by A. S. M.
1 by the Chief of-Engineer for the purpose of further study of hydraulics and river and harbor improvements. While in Europe,
mand of the Headquarters and Service Company of the 1st Engineers Division and also was made regimental supply officer Fort Du Pont where he was s tioiied until he was ordered to Carnegie to relieve Captain Acker. Captain Whitaker Is a grea thuslast of the art and science of shooting and hopes to be able produce ' another championship rifle team.. He ajsa hopssJo.iiax^ a very large cadet R. O. T.' C. unit this year and that air former military students will re-register.. This year the Military Department Is combining the Junior and senior classes to receive Instruc(Continued On Page Two)
Student Work 
Provided By 
F.E.R.A. Fund
Of 269 Students To Be 
Employed, 135 Will be 
Freshmen
Work Starts Oct. 1 
Continuing T o May
Purpose of Allotted Funds 
Is To Increase Number 
Of Studnte Enrolled v
Mortar Board Holds L 
First Dance of Year
Mortar Board, women's senior honorary, will hold the .first tea dance of the year tomorrow :>lii Thistle Hall from four untilsbt. Chet Walters' orchestra . will fur-, nlsh the music for the dance.-Chet Walters orchestra .Is &' lj>- cal, ten-piece orchestra made iip.of college men which has playedIni'
lleved by the committee, wlll -be''effective in Thistle Hall.The committee urges freshmen To
During the coming school year 
the Federal Emergency Relief Ad
ministration will provide funds-for 
the. part-time employment of 269 
Carnegie Btudents. The program 
will be carried out from October 
1, 1934 to May 31, 1935. Since the main purpose of using relief funds' for studentaid is to increase the number of young men and .women going to colleges, the funds allotted shall not be used to-replace college funds heretofore available
leges,.- half of the allotted funds will be paid to student's who were not regularly enrolled. In any college or university during January
freshmen., in' proportion to the enrollment 175 will be men and 94 women. The financial status ot the students to be employed must be
The work designated for these students is socially desirable work such as clerical, library, and research work. Such work, as regustrnclioh of buildings^wlll be eluded. The ' work will not limited to the campus, but will elude woirk for' local government such as library boards, port departments, health'departments. Personal work such as window cleaning and taking care of children ;Js
Guild Ticke t Sale 
Will Start Oct. 2
Carnegie Group Will Devote 
Proceeds to Student Aid
Tho Guild, Carnegie's philanthropic organization, will hold its membership . drive Tuesday and Wednesday, Oct. 2 and 3. The officers o[ the Guild will sell tags>, for which any contribution Is accepted. Anyone wishing
tag, thus becoming a member. Last year the Guild worked with the Welfare Drive in Pittsburgh, bui this .year it intends to devote all Its finances to aiding needy
committee earnestly asks the sistance of the men. Membei the Guild will be stationed in all three 'colleges during the dri'
the drlvThe Charity Bali, the first formal of the year, on Oct. 1.9, will be other source of revenue for tbe Guild. Margaret P.' Barr 35, Department of Household Economics, Is general chairman of the ball.
Arms Question Supplements 
Economic, Political Troubles
Nationalization of Munitions Industry Won*t Solve 
Problem of Friction Between Nations; Success 
Relies on Nature of Government Involved
Dudley D.The arms question cannot be 
settled without first settling our 
economic -and political difficult 
ties," said Nathan Miller, Carnegie 
professor -of economics, speakliig last Thursday evening before a meeting of the Allegheny CountyLeague for'Peace "Actlbn "fit thtf Wightman school.. "Nationalization of tbe munitions industry will not, he said,' 'solve the problem of friction bein Germany and in Japan, the danger of war. being increased rather than lessened."The arms traffic, he said, cannot be divorced from our economic system and Is only one of the many factors that adds to the
wssihat theJntersatloaal traffic in arms amounts to only about 3 or - 4 per cent of the total, the do*
r munitions In the fight against
cesslty neighbors:'The present in_____  ____tions, according to" Mr. Miller, may hs -amorbid-interest precedii catastrophe. The present s tion, he said, paralleled that of 1913 when the transactions of' Krupp, German munitions czar, were investigated, creating a similar stir. Another parallel in the present
similarity, be carried further, already it is too late to prevent a European war which will drag In the United -States as surely a the last one. Profits, b$ said, will probably make it linposslble.for \
majority.. of .. wpre/:.*ban: hundred who attended ; ing commending the - administration for Instigating the investiga>ntinue until . all the' facts
Tartan Wins 
HighestRating 
In Exhibition
Carnegie Publication Gets 
All-American Honors 
For 2nd Time
Tartan Is Ranked 
Among Six Best
Receives 815 Points Out of 
Possible 1,000 to Gain 
Coveted Distinction
Plefoe Rulings 
Are Effective 
Wed. Morning:
Regulations Committee 
Insists Upon Strict 
Enforcement
Freshman regulations will .-officially go. into effect tomorrow. Sep-, tember -26, at 8:30 .a. m. George
slsted by the Senate presidents i-'ot the three colleges and by . the Sophomore honorary societiesCwens and Scimitar. Regulations will first be'observed when .a.-dele/' gatlon of upperclassmen greet-the freshmen as they leave their flrarfc1 class assembly.
Although no drastic changes have been made la-the regulations: of previous, years Student' Council president William F. Becker '36 has stated that Plebe regulations' will be more strictly enforced than In former years. Any first : students desiring regulation emptlon cards are asked to report to . -the "Y-' . office-in Industries building.
Must Attend AssembliesFreshman men will be' required to wear the customary black socks; black ties, and plebe .dinks atall times. No, smoking will betoler; ated exeepi /n the .' club rooms: High .School-or prep techool irislgnlas-are 'Tiof^to .'be worn. - - Qlrlaf*, must wear the . regulation band! . Lavish display of jewelry will be a punishable offense. A" school songs and yells must 1 committed to memory and pleb must attend all assemblies and college gatherings. One of the most important rules requires all underclassmen to greet upperclass member whenever they meet.urged that irishmen study
forced. Freshman trials are held each week In all three colleges the purpose of punishing those
unable to purchase regulations in the registration line may procure the same at any time in the
2400 Handbooks 
Given to Students
Twenty-four hundred copies of the 1934-36 volume of the Carnegie Handbook have been distributed to freshmen - and upperclassmen
quaint first year students with, the customs, rules, regulations, history and traditions-of the Carnegie campus, is published by theTriPublications staff under the editorship of Thomas W. Dana, 36. ' Tbe ''Plebe Bible," as the handbook Is popularly called, Is the first connecting link .between prospective freshmen and college activities. Copies of the handbook are sent to each entering student several weeks before registration. The bible presents to freshmen such information and advice will adjust them promptly w the physical layout, scholastic work and .college life of Carnegie..The Tri-Publications staff urges that all freshmen who have received a Plebe Bible" -or have misplaced the book to call at "Y office, and obtain copy. Possession ot the haudbook is essential during the period when Freshmen Regulations are in effect. Pleb regulations are completely set forth in the current publication.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, September 2611.30' A. M.  M.M. Freshman Assembly-Room 102, M.M.; Avts School Freshman Assembly  Little Theater.7:00 P. M.Student Council 
Meeting.Wednesday, September 26 4:00 P. M.Tea Dancetar Board.Thistle Hall. Thursday, September 27 ......................... 4..-Y.. C. A.
9:30Phi Mu Alpha. Meeting 
6738 Home Street.Saturday, September 29-*-2:00 P. M. Carnegie-Geneva Football gameBeaver Falls.9:00 P. M.^Welcome Freshman DanceThistle Hall. Tuesday. October 2
veVslty newspapers in the United States In a nationwide .contest sponsored by tho National Scholastic'Prees Association of Minneapolis. The award, announced late ,ladi spring,.covered the Issues of last? year and marks thesecond ^consecutive year' that the Tartan
... _ entered. in the contest.Out;oi a possible 1,000 points the Tartan, scored 816, thus gaining the^AU-Amerlcan distinction.Judges Praise Tartan -The - scoring-was based  upon . evds. value' and sources, news wigging ahd-editlng, editorials, feature^ material, headlines, typogrot>hy:and make-up. The Tartan won .9peclal. praise from the NSPA Judges for Its news editing and for Its deadlines and make-up.- ' Each paper Is evaluated
has*been conducted since 1924. Its is to analyze and evaluate tbaiCwork of high school, college, BDd ^nlvereity publications in the United States. The judges reach thelr^'declsion in much the sann ^manner that an instructor in th< laa&rOom analyzes the work of his students. - A scorebook containing icritlclsms and suggestions Is 'to every publication, entered'wlth tho association, a total, of nearly. 'S00':papers, in, all classifications.- Two Oupa . Are Won ;Last yeaV. 'was^the second year thait-the .Tartan .has /been:-enter<irl4-' in .the NSPA.contestThe All-American honor rating as . the ' second national award on by the Tartan last year.March the Tartan won first place iverage ' and for edlsodation, Middle Atlantic States division. This was the first time that any one paper was awarded cups in both these classifications.Edmund J. McCormick, as editorin-chief, Jacque Mlnnot.te as news editor, and Joseph Adams as maniglng editor headed the editorial
by prominent clergymen in PittsSlight Increase Forecast 
^ As Freshman Registration 
. t Is Concluded on Saturday
Arts Ball Set for Feb. 15; 
Committee Chairman Chosen
Enrollment Indicates 
Five Per Cent Gain 
Over Last Year ;
Decorations, Costumes 
To Follow Arabian 
Nights Motif
With the date of the Arts Bull 
set for February 16 and that of 
the Poet Arts Ball for February 16, 
James H. MoNnughton '36, newiyappolnted general ohalrman of. the 
Arts Ball committee. Is busy projecting tentative plane for the affair. He will announce general and sub-committee appointments within tho next week.
The theme of this yearB ball will be the Arabian Nights. Both
j the setting for'an Arabian
Competitions for costume, decoration, and poster designs will be
ant in each of tbe threo divisions of the competition.
Plans Include' Cabaret 
Further plans Include an Arabian cabaret complete with original Arabian music. Tho entertainment in tho cabaret 1D to feature Carnegies new corps de ballet direct from its appearance last
the Arts Ball remains the only closed social function campus. Attendance will again be rigidly restricted to .the etudentb and alumni of that college.' The Post Arts Ball' Is open to students
Following.the procedure eetab:
Dragohs Sponsor 
Freshman Dance
Social Season Has Official 
Opening Saturday Night
Carnegies social season has 1 ofDiclal opening with the Welcon Freshman Dance*' scheduled for nine o;clock Saturday evening In Thistle Hall.Sponsored by the Dragons, men's eonior honorary society, and preceding the fall series of Saturday night football dances, Ibis Is the freshmen's first opportunity to attend an all-college function, and offers them an occasion to lntceducc^ ..ihcmaclvea_to social affairs at Carnegie.The orchestra for this first dancc of the year has not yet been selected, but ticket^, which
General Assembly 
Planned for Oct.2
First Chapel Service Delayed 
By Pro s. Bakers Illness
The first student assembly of the fall term will be held in r Carnegie M,usic , hall October Owing to the illness of Presid<Baker, tlie first Chapel servicethe year will not be held : until,___ _______ .-r_.__________Tuesday October 2'dT'^Tfia servie wlll be nld In. the Little Theater In the College of Fine Arts.Four - general assemblies* have been scheduled for the first semester. Student Council' has charge of these'meetings,) and this body Is planning several very interesting programs. These assemblies begin, promptly at 11:30 a. ra.. .Chapel erv.lces Jiave been held on the Carnegie campus for the pa6t thirteen years. They are held every ' two weeks uuder the
PUBLICATIONS MAKE CALL 
Freshmen Interested In joining
interviewed In Room 16, Indus trie6, where they will be enrolled for the basic course in journalism conducted by members of the TarCandidates, for Puppet, monthly
A sliver' activities key is awarded for two years work on the staff,-a gold key for four years. Tbe Pup^ pet also awards keys to active staif
Artists are Finding Old Adage Art 
For Arts Sake is Giving Way
The old ' adage, Art for art's sake," seems to be 6et aside to a certain extent today and a new one set up to take its place, Art for our sake.. The products of the 'true "artist used to he mamvy cr&i ative works brought about by some inward drive .or urge. The products themselves were not supposed
 .the final-products them
Tciday, financial . conditions everywhere prevent' a large majority of the, people from purchasarticles to be produced .by machines. Manufacturers are beginning to recognize the shortcomings of earlier, attempts to
tent that the utility of products is not the sole test, of their acceptability to the buying public. The well-defined need for artists now Is: for those whosework comes w.itiviu--t5ib requirements-ofindustry. ;To prepare such artists
the direction of Dou'ald R. Dohner, former director of arts in!the glneering department of the Weslinghonse Electric and Manufacturing Company. This four-year course is known as Industrial Deples and the resources for their
Emphasis will, be laid on the study of design In terms of typical terials and the processes by 'which they can be fashioned. The student Is assisted in evolving technique of study applicable to any problem which he . may later
llshed by previous committees, tickets will admit only one pernon, and only one ticket will be sold either to a student or to an alumThis is in accord with the .Ball tradition that each individual buys his or her own ticket. , As in former Arts Ball years,
clal committee. These parties will be spread over the calendar, beginning at the opening of tho semester and continuing through the actual, staging of the ball In February,The purpose of the parties Is to acquaint. Arts.stut^ents with the members of-: departments other than th'eli1 own. .This will especially benefit members of' the freshman, claas; '"glving^-them furtheropportunities for meetingup 'porviofisaep. /.: ; 
Enrollment In 
Engineering Rise?
Late Registrants Expected 
To Greatly. Increase 
Presei.t Figure
That there will be about a: flvo 
per cent increase in the total enV 7 
rollmeht In the day classes at Car* ' 
negle for the coming semester^ was tbe prediction of Alan Bright, Reg
istrar, Saturday at the close of.. registration. ' :Enrollment on Friday and Satur/ day of last ,week totalled 490 whilo for a comparable period last' fall the tolal was 601. Using. these'figures,-and oountlng in the proba1 blllty of many late freshman'regisrtralloBS, Mf. Bright estimated'.tlipt
Not until the registration perclussmen In.. progress yesterday. , ;: and tcda Is completed will figures ' .;
yeats.
Aldi Entended to Students
Although a rather large*cut.In
College Editors 
Confer in N. Y.
Association Plans to Arouse 
Interest in World Topics
elation of College Editors. The three-fold aim ot tbe association is to stimulate the interest of students throughout the world in promoting peace,' good government, and a higher standard of living.
The Literary Digest, which took the initial steps .lu bringing togothcr the..representatives. of. .the student newspapers, acted as host but it was explained that tlia magazine would have no part in the control or operation of the. sociatton. The suggestion that college editors be organized into editorial gro,up came from former present college editors Interthe editorial pages of the college press.
"KgaVn Edltor^pe&ks Arthur S. Draper, editor of the Literary Digest, to whom the eug gestin was submitted, welcomed tbe gathering, in a brief address,
midst of a tremendously Important social if not political revolution, it Is a buoying thought that undergraduates are conscious,- of this fact. We have come to a time in American life when the best way out of a distressing period may peo haps be reached by trying to re* solve things to their fundamental;The demand for leadership was never greater,. Wherever . one looks, one Is impressed by the fact that the masses respond to the man or idea that is simple and positive.My experience Is that most of my associates are extremely cynic al regarding the part youth cau play In the Immediate future. They, feel that the youngsters of country are either indifferent disillusioned that tli^y are v to let Ihlnfes drift. This is a spletrdlfl opportunity to; prove that youth has courage, that.it is unafraid,~ that St is objective, that It give leadership."s University Poll
Student's at the conference were from-Eastern colleges .mainly, but It Is. planned to extend the associa__ Colleges represented were:Yale, Harvard, Princeton,' Colum-. bla, Rutgers, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Brown, Navy, Williams. Johns Hopkins, Fordham. Penn State, Dartmouth, Syracuse,' . Virginia, Templo, M. I. T., Tufts, Lafayette,
numbor of ensea^students are rank*Ing great sacrifices in order to/fcon--. tat? time their education here..' The .*!. administration,: through ther oflice >> o.f tho Dean of Men and women. riv has extended aid to many.- dents. In addition there are amopgv j^ the ;freshmen many, who! ln--noiv v ** mal times; might have gone outlet f{- town to Bchool, but cbecause. of - tfs financial .difficulties .are forced .to. hattend a Pittsburgh Institution thlg s
'(ftyfdfed as follow:':CollBfi'ji _: |Bhglj|:eVclj^.''.'25S:  CdllegBrAJt^yttJ' Arts. 102; and Margaret Morrison Carnegie College: 120;.For a comparable, perlod^last..: year, the totals were: College ,ofEngineering and - lnduatrlca-264; . College, of Fino Arts 166: and: Mar-.? garet Morrison CarnegieCollege .; 147. . .Figures Not Complote
The figures obtained Saturday at the close of registration were as yet incomplete and therefore  are" only approximate. But . the vegis* . tration of lale arrivals and of thqs  completing financial arrangements.-, is expected, to be larger this year,?, and wlil no doubt greatly Increase-, the freshman total forevery college.Already theenrollment for th - College . of Engineering has'  the last year s^llSUK-Siv
SsflPuppets Plebeian} 
Nuniber On Salt |
_ Carnegies monthy tmpertlneaogj'fjl'^ Puppet, which appeared . on, -.tlieP fjjg campuBn&8cE'tndayr'ha& annountgfe^S the program for this year. .'John^Mj Richmond, editor-in-chief, has .m&de^ &g| several changes in columna andi^^ additions to the humorous artlcles:;^S|d The Plebeian number-' introduced;^ this year's Innovations.- The feature of the; first. 1 is Big Shots and Blank : trldges." This column :*
Sip
zlne has been , changed in keeping, with the staff's desire to publish^ a bettor Impertinence sheet.-.-Eiich;iiXi Issue this year will have au .ehtlr^gft ly different cover instead of uslhgv'A^ tho same.', design each month vag was done last year.
i. IV. C. A. President 
To Attend Conference i
Gwen Haddock. 35: of-ther.De*-.^ pdrtment of Costume Economics.nd president, of the Carnegie,.T. :
Madison.-Now jersey. t>n Septei ber 26 to 30.The purpose of the organization./?
C. A., with the purpose of.elimlnat4 ing thewaste of separate a}llvttS| in the Y field of .endeavor;-.thu: strengthening both . oTganlzatlom The officers of the Carnegie Y^l C. A. and Y. W. C.- A. wlU told^i meeting1 before' this conferencQ,i i cast their votes on the .questions: unity. Miss Haddock wiU .repa^o sent both the. Y. -W. C. A. and,>fcyJ Y. M C-' Aat the conference:-.^ '-;
TiPTAN STAFF MEETS^
There wlll he a meeting; junior editors in the:Tartan 07^^;^ today at 1:00. - Reporters cvnd?^ assignments for the next l^syl^ri^,.1. Ul I II I

---------------------------------------------------

CrnegieNight 
School Offers 
New Course
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2S, 1934
 Many Course Changes 
! Are Made In Colleges 
As Registration Begins
Schedules of Engineers 
Are Reduced Th ree 
Units for Semester
Course in Social 
Work is Changed
Architects Get New Course 
In Construction Essentials;
Design Course Added
Tbe 1934 registration finds transitional changes of varyiug intensity in the course schedules of students in the Pine Arts, Margaret Morrison, und Engineering colleges. The present setup marks the In-between-stQgos ln tbe administrative policy which' calls for a final but considerably altered schedule to go Into effect in 1933.
 Inclusion of more electives in student schedules. A general tendency prevails in tbe Engineering school to lighten schedule ioads by three units. ]n the Commercial Works department a course in mechanisms will be conducted by John Hobe, instructor in Commercial Engineering.
New Faculty 
Appointments
Are Published i programs for training euch teacheconomics is i inthe junior
cialEnglneerl
he course in  being scheduled ear instead of tbe i. in the Cotnmer; department math*
i elective subject.
General Metallurgy and Industrial .Management are no longer ,requii> >9d for all engineering students.For administrative purposes the shops formerly connected with the ' College of Industries have been .transferred to the -Civil, Commercial, and Mechanical Engineering departments, in the Civli department are Masonry, Carpentry, teheet Metal Work, andl Welding. Machine Shop, Forging, Foundry, and Pattern Sliop come under the supervision of the Commercial Ei gineering department while tti ...Plumbing Shop is now listed und6r .the Mechanical Engineering partment.
In the Department of Painting . and Design of the College of Fine 'Arts a new course is being ottered in industrial Design. The courue Will be handled by Prof. Alexandi Kostellow and Professor Donald : -Dohner. The new course is of four . years duration and-leads to a Bach... .   ' ial
d to the Architectal curriculum .plied Architectural Design. This -""'TYtieiIgifetf' to bring to the studei '...the engineering aspect of archltecof Professor Clifford Du:Professor 'Camille Grapln. f<jr graduates is being offered by the Department, of Music.
" A uew program or social tralniug is being given at 'Margaret Mi
work endorsed by the American Association of Social Work, hew program applies to students entering in 1934. Upperclassmen will complete their work on basis of tbe old curriculum. In addition to the regular Social Work course, a one-year curriculum ; been developed tor graduates of
New Fellowships Bring 
Number Established 
Up to Fifteen
land, and received bis doc gree while there.
Many Not Retained 
The following, formerly r
jvf*- Entertains 
Incoming Plebes
; The College Game Subject 
,vv;;f Talk by Dr. Evans
^.' v ..Between two and .ihre hundred freshmen met last night In the v: Carnegie Commons and heard Dr. -. . Louis IL Evans, football playing
 Game" letlcs <'.youth,
 Presiding over the meeting w. William H. Sharp, *35, Departmei /of Civil Engineering, president of
:-i>lcbe9/:ln* singing popular Professor Boyd C. Dennison, Baitment of Electrical Engineering, i .was .presented as toastmaster of ;th evening. He called upon head Vcoach.Howard Harpster for a brief . talk and then Introduced principal
Also sponsored by the Y was
.-.park: 'Meeting the Y" at 3p.clockthe freshmen inarched ;thel Sctienley oval for an afternoon V ot competitive relay races, obsta;cle:con teats, rope pulling, and .mushbaU.;! 'I)ashing down to the shelter ..paylilon the plebee Joined in
roduced a number of ' the campus lotables and -faculty, -members who ere present. He then introduced r.-Bernard Clausen, minister of e -First Baptist -. Church, luseirs talk' centered about the iject Religlon-r'-a Necessity
. Donald B. Dohner, who jc the faculty as associate profej of design.
Principles and Methods 
Of Adult Education 
Will Be Taught
Held of adult, education, Carnegie will fter this yearin its night school a course lu principles
Mason, readers counsellor of the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh and former secretary of the Pittseconomic conditions, the adult edu
cording tq experts promises i
cation that between 30,000 and 3; 000 adults were enrolled in education classes conducted teachers provided by Federal Emergency Education funds.
According to Mr. Mason, the jorlty .of teachers engagedstructing adultsthose who
been found inadequate on teaching adults, and it is to provide approach to the problem that the new course is being offered.
the faculty,, -were not retained Capt. A. S. Ackerman, professor of Military Science and Tactics; Mr. William Alton, inforge; Mr. J. W. Ballard, instructor in physlcB; Mr. O. Fryer, Instructor in physics;. H. L. Grau, assistant In the Bureau of Recommendations; Miss Mary E. Hall, instructor in Hi
Jewett, director of the College idustrles; Mr. C. L. Jones, in:tor in mechanical engineering; Mr. T. D. Mylrea, professor of civil engineering; Mr. F. V. Nyquist, associate professor of art education; Mr. P. K. Schell, massier. Department of Architeco; Mr. G. F. Thomas,; instructor pressworlc; M,rs, R. G. Twiggs, secretary, Department of Painting Design; and Mr. F. M. Walters/
Cours 
The ;students who have been trained previously in some field of subject matter such asdrama, art, music, home economics, commercial subjects, social sciment9 and discussionsthe student present bis special subject matter types of adult studygroups.
Mr. Mason is well Jltted to teach e new course. He was graduated from Michigan state College,
in applied psychology.
of Buffalo and the Buffalo Museum of Science. Earlier he was a member of the faculty of the Uni sity of West Virginia.
Registration for evening classes
Metals Research Laboratory. Prof. Henry L. Moore, formerly isociate professor of physics in argaret Morrison, was killed in i automobile accident in Georgia i June 5th. Mr. Carl Nnsser, who as part-time instructor in basoon, died while playing in a band conBloomfield on August 13. No appointments have been made these positions.
Dept, of Drama 
Plans for 9 Plays
Congreves Love for Love 
Will Open Season
The Department of Drama has
Congreves Love for Love will open the season under the direction of B. Iden Piyne, who will shortly return from Stratford-onwhicli lie is to direct after the first of the year. The selection' of Mr. Payne, who was formerly head of Department of Drama, to head memorial theater in .Shakespeare's birthplace, has made necessary the advance of the annual
The play, Love for Love, which had a revival in New York this pass winter, was in its own time not any too much of a success.
this period was Congreve.
lected Shaw.s Getting Married, SJerras. The . Cradle Song;, which was recently made ijito a movie starring Dorothea Wieck, and the
with Eva Le Gallienne and R.ud|olph Schlldkraut. There will also be a comedy by
their premieres in* tbe Little ' 
 Plays Are Scheduled
Husband is due in New York this i!l-;..-the..:r. -aasceras.. .he. Jite and' loves of the author of Gulliver's Travels, Dean Swift, and is the work of Warren Muosell, Jr. ' These plays -will be produced un* der the directions of Professors Chester M. Wallace and E. W. Hickman who wilj also supervise
Carnegie Lab, Model to Help 
Check Citys Flood Menace
Dam is Federal Government Project for Navigation 
Improvement? Flood Control; Will be One of 
Largest Masonry Dams in East
Walter R. Prof. Harold A. Thomas of the Department of Civil Engineering and consulting engineer for the Pittsburgh Flood Commission has
River Dam. This dam will create tho first reservoir of the group proposed by tbe Pittsburgh Flood Commission over a quarter of a century ago to prevent the flood menace in the Pittsburgh District.
also recommended by Prof. Thomas in his retfort to the commission in 1928.The purpose of the dam is to flooding in the Mononga-hela Valley,for
United States Army Engineers under the direction of' Maj. W. D. Styer have already started work on tho $13,000,000 project. The dam when finished will be the contribution of the Federal Government towardnavigation improveThe model which has been constructed for the U. S. Engineers in the Hydraulic Research. Laboratory was builtprimarily to determine the best method to prevent scouring, or the erosion of rock below the dam. The experiments
M. M. Graduates 
Present Pageant
Alumui Association Makes 
Plans for Homecoming
A luncheon held Saturday afternoon at the College Club, Craig street opened the formal program for 1934-35 of the Margaret Morrltwenty Margaret Morrison graduates appeared in costumes they had worn during their college days. Mrs. H. J. Graham (Frances Wing,
I Whitaker Takes Over 
j Command of R.O.T.C.
tlon in senior subjects and the freshman and sophomore classes to receive Instruction in sophomore subjects. These combinations are expectcd to simplify th
Extra Periods Aid Students
Tbe war department also has four periods, two more than last year, for freshman and sophomore drill, which will make it easier for the students to include Military Training in their curriculum.
At the first combined drill scheduled for 11:30, September 27, all juniors and seniors will report to the Office of the Military
breeches, and belts, qucnt drill days juniors in civilian clothes will form at the left of Company F1 and seniors will report, in uniform, to companies to be^ designated later by the Military
Sophomores taking R. O. T. C. will obtain uniforms during the week of September 26, excepting Saturday afternoon, between the hours of 9:00 A. M. and 4:30 P. M., thfe uniforms to be worn at all drills on and after October 1.
Freshman Uniforms Available
Freshman uniforms will be drawn at the time of registration and will be worn at ail drills on and after October  1. Freshmen arc also excused from the 11:30 drill, Thursday, September 27, but are. to attend all other drills they have scheduled for that day.
Assembly for all drills is tnside the barrier in front of the Administration Hall.
Effective September 26, all seniors enrolled iu R. O. T. C. are appointed student second lieutenants, and all juniors are appointed duty sergeants. All promotion from theBe basic grades will he made In November and will be based upon individual fitness for particular assignments as well as class room work and attendance.
tatives.According to the program fc the year na announced at th luncheon, the annual alumni horai coming will be held October 2G an of the CnrneglmbciPurdue football game, of evenl6 will be'scheduled on the campus on this occasion. Mrs. C. Dixon Harnack (Irone Quinn '00) is the Margaret Morrison Alumnae representative on the committee of the Alumni Federation. Her committee includes Harriet Morgan '22, Nancy Newman '31, Helen Bright Roy 29. Gertrude Novak '32,
i EwfDorothei Mary E| ter '30.During November the organi: tlon will sponsor a number Lraveling baskets in order to raise funds for association ex penaes. Caroline Eyster is chairman of this undertaking.To Celebrate Silver Jubilee  The Alumnae association will celebrate Its twenty-fifth year In
following committee : MargiMenges Shupp, Josephine Gibson Eckert, Helen Bosworth Orr, Margaret Mattern Stoelzing, Christine Lelghou, and Alice -Work.,r berteftorg--v
chairman. A theater party will be given~ln the Little Theater tn the eacJy spring and the final event of the year will be a tea in honor of the senior class which will be held May 4 in the Little House odWoodlawn avenue.
fPomen*s Glee Club 
Holds Tryouts Tues.
Tryouts for the Carnegie Womens Glee club will be held under the supervision' of Prof. Karl Malchereck at 4:30 Tuesday, October 2 in the Assembly room of tfte Margaret Morrison Building. Freshman women of both Margaret Morrison and the Flue Arts College are invited to tryout.
The first rehearsal will be from 4:30 to 5:30 Tuesday, October 9 in the assembly room of Margaret Morrison.
______j
'MU ALPHA 'MEETS'....
Alpha Omega chapter of Phi Mu
i acuity Members 
Present Reports
T^n scientific papers by members ot the Carnegie faculty were presented before tbe American Chemical Society meeting in
studies made in the coal and chemistry research laboratories of Carnegie, represent the work of fourteen members of the faculty.In-.the gas and fuel chemistrydivision, six papers were contributed by members of the staff of tli<? coal research laboratory. These V'AP&rs. itichivhi  ttvefoitowiag: -la Evaluation of the effects of the Rate of Heating, and of the Maximum Temperature on the Pyrolysis Coking Coal by William B:
Decomposition and Distillation___Coal in High. Vacuum by B. Juettner, and H. c. Howard; Extraction of Edenborn Coal by Benzene at Elevated Temperature by R. S. Asbuvy; and The Rate of Oxidation of Graphite by steamBy MrX' Mayers.' ,............I;t the division' of organic chemistry, Dr. W. R. lCiruey delivered a paper on The Direct Simultaneous Micro-determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Oxygen in Organic Substances.Members of the department of Chemistry .delivered three..papers
been changed several times during the course of the experiments and a great many different schemes have b?eo used to determine which plan will most effectively overcome the scouring. Various types of sills are used at the toe of the dam In an attempt to break up the damaging currents.J. L. Wissmiller, who took graduate work at Carnegie last year,' and John W. Hackney 34 have been experimenting all summer under Prof. Thomas direction. During the course of their experiments they found a sill which so iar has proven superior to tbo famous Rehbock Sill. They have called their sill the Carnegie "Ml.One of the Largest Dams The main dam will be a solid oncrete and masonry structure. It dll be 230 feet high and 1,700 feet
of .327,500 acre feet of water:In the laboratory beside the Tygart model is a model of the proposed Lock Number Nine
eliminating any dangi currents which might exist at the entrance to the lock. This model is Beventy-two feet long and eight feet wide. Experiments on this
as follows: Dr. G. C. Warner and 
Earl L. Warrick presented a paper 
entitled Kinetic Medium Effects 
in Reaction between Ions of Unlike Charge, Dr. G. C. Warner, W. G. Svirbley and James E. Ablard have prepared a paper on Electric Moments of d-Plnene and d-Liminene and The Mechanism of the.Arsenite-Tellurate Reaction is the title of a paper prepared by Dr. T. R. Alexander and A. Boncek.
1934) Summer 
School Prves 
Best in Years
Outside Activity, Field 
Trips Carried Out; 
Paper Published
eceived more tuition fees than ha any summer school here in the past four years. Many field trips and outside activities were planned and successfully carried out, according to Prof. R. B. Lelghou, director of summer sessions.The Kiltie, a mimeographed news sheet, was published weekly durlug
The first session of the summer school of the Department of Drama enrolled 17 in acting and many more in the diction classes. Under the direction of Prof. Chester Wallace, the department opened its season on July 6 and 7 with three short plttys, Eurlpedes Hecuba* in abbreviated form, and two one-act plays from the pen of local playwrights, "Hector by Dr.
Dr. Logani were written in Pro fessor Wallaces playwriting class. The. last offering was Maeterlinck's Tom Cobb or Fortunes Toy.
 Musle Programs Presented 
The Department of Music preMEESES B0(
NEW AM) USED 
TEXTBOOKS 
SUPPLIES 
We Will Buy Your 
USED BOOKS 
3811 Fifth Avenue 
Opposite Forbes 
National Bank
Here it is
MONDAY... 0>
and B still
DOLLAR"
You, too, can sing the weekly 
song of a dollar saved... may
be more. How? Send your 
laundry home. Well pick It 
up anytime, take it home, and 
bring it back on time. If you - 
aredepression-conscious,you 
may even send it collect. 
And if you remind the folks 
that Railway Express is the 
way to ship laundry, you 
stand achanceofhaving yours 
ATlantie 3600 926 I
The beat thero ia
comeback "prepaid. Think
You can count on the de 
pendability of Railway Ex
press for shipping anything 
anywhere. We give a receipt 
on pick-up and fake a receipt 
on delivery, double proof of 
prompt and careful handling. 
Insurance included up to $50.
For service or information 
merely call or telephone 
'enn Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SERVING THE NATION FOR 95 YEARS
RAILWAY
EXPRESS
AGENCY, ln. 
NATIQN-WIDE SERVICE
Capell:choir under the direction of Morten J. Luvoas gave an .jcellent concert at tbe close of the session. Prof. J. Vick O'Brien, head of the Department of -Music;the guest conductor at two of the ScUenley lawn concerts.
Visits were made by groups from the College of Engineering to several of the local industries, and a week-end trip to Camp Davis in West Virginia, was alBO carried Conducted tours, of study
A. Walker, and the students in the Department of Industrial Education visited many of the trade schoolsabrut the city.
BUSINESS; STAFF/MEETING
There will be a meeting of tbe Tartan Business staff in -the Bus)- Office on Thursday at, 4:30.
Members of Faculty 
To Conduct Classes
Four members of the Carnegie 
faculty are associated with the 
staff of the Isaac Seder Education
al center which opened its 24 weeks of classes last evening at the Young Mens and Youug Womens Hebrew Association. MiBS Kitcat, instructor in Dalcroze eurythmies, is conducting a class in this specialty; Professer.Jose Alemany. of the Department of Modern Languages is* giving '& course in Significant Writers of !, Spain and Italy; Dr. Max
sophy; and Dr. Nathan Miller, associate professor of economic, is giving classes in History of the Family and Social Reformers.
glaufta
STUDENTS, ARTISTS' AND ENGINEERS' SUPPLIES 
SCHOOL SEAL JEWELRY AND STATIONERY 
10% Discount to Students 
FORBES STREET, Between Oakland and Boquet
PARKER PENS SOU), FITTED, REPAIRED
PROGRAMS FAVORS SMALL GIFTS STATIONERY
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
ITS VISIBLE COLUMN of INK'
tike the Cos Gauge on your ear    
lets you choose your own time to refill-ends running dry!** 
Siari ihe NeecSchoot Ycarc&sih ileio 9 to4Fauoriief
Now that the world can have tbe slightly turned up so it cannot possibly scratch or drag.All stores arc daily demonstrating this new wonder of scieoi. Go and try it. The Parker Pen Company,punrapidly i
t has always wanted, rubac pens and squirt-gun piston*  types are being laid aside as
fhen talking picturcB camc in.For not only does Parkers revolu
tionary Vacumatic bold J02% more ink; burit ui^tfiiiWS 'wtien' yomink 
supply is running low. Hence it doesnt 
go dry in the mitjst.of tests and exams. A fami?d designer created this shimT mering laminated .Pearl Beautyan 
utterly smart and alluring style. The 
only transparent pen that doesnt LOOK transparent.
i.way Point of pre-ious Platm. Gold and Iridium is r.he new non-rdcanlng Ink. Address
"Iva i e&r'rc Tw  
kaiv TaTo, aldaR
TTOlt, W, <pVL 
fl/9o5TI)f COTLU,\0vapVr)3'tJ ip*? r
PITY THE GREEKS7] THE'/ DIDNT HAVE A vXaJOD FOR THIS/AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
Menmus ALBERT is. wt believe, the coolest, 
mellowest smoke you ever tasted. Blended by a secret 
mctbod from topquality tobaccos. Mild? Of coursel A 
special process takes out all "bite!" You'll never know 
how good a pipe can caste until you try Prince Alberti

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1934
fits, and It is up to us to keep o ' selves stepping lo tune to the xu ? est of the new.   THRIFT oven enters into Dai I Fashion's Codejust try touching
Intersorority 
Rushing Rules 
Are .Changed
Council Makes Changes 
To Include Sororities 
From M.M.C.C.
; UP iof last year's frocks with
WHILE on the cellophane trail .? can you visualize yourself In 4 one of those shimmering cellophane 4 capes, which give exactly the right touch lo your formal own? ') We couldnt resist the temptation i to try one onand the effect is J most ilattering! The design wo | liked tbe best was the shirred, one 4 cleverly made on a body of'taffeta. }, Your choice of any color in llio 
i rainbow.
STILL snooping around for tic unusual, we came, across a wholo displayed of monogrammed jewelry
vAried tastes. We took an added Interest when we discovered tlu* priceand
WE suggest that the young lady who prides herself on keeping one step ahead of the latest trend if
THE NEWEST in nail-pollsh Such shadeB .D American Beauty Moonstone, Sunburst, and Gdldflattering with new fall
AND for you girls who want knock the wind out of . those campus breezes this fall justlend
oxford or red and blue.
earand youre eet forrthe-.^venlng. ' Little sparklesto "big Sparkles.
LOOKING for a new fall bag? We have discovered that some kindly person has designed a stunning replica of one of Nat LewiH' famous bagswith a price in keep Ing with a college girl's allowance.
Sorority Rushing 
Rules Changed
$100 Limit Set for Expenses 
For Each Organization
The recognition of sororities in
be iu effect for the school year 1934-1935:Rushing shall be formally
ber 6, and in the College of Fine Arts on Thursday, January ^ 3. Rushing Season shall last approximately ton days consisting of two weeks. A tea shall be held the Wednesday before the respective ushing seasons officially begin, but shall be non-rushing. Three girls from each' sorority participate in arranging the events. The is given to make it possible for each . sorority to become acquainted with tbe rushees. Intations for sorority events can not be extended until the ' Thursday following the respective teas, and luncheon daleB can. not be made until the following Sunday.2. Hushing events are limited > three functions. Tbe choice ofdates for the rushing formals will be automatic, rotating Inversely as thoy were last year. A detailed budget of all expenses is required ich sorority the second Monday - alter rushing.3. Rushing Is prohibited by a sorority as a roup in Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, until after the seventh Thursday of tho school year, and In the College of Fine Arts until after the fifteenth Thursday of the school year (group meaning two girls In the same sorority.)4. No more than $100 must be spent to cover rushing expenseB Including all money spent for active sorority members, tbelr guests, and pledges guests. No donations allowed during rushing except the
ELVA HENDEL-..
Inter-Exhibit 
Set for Oct. 18
253 Work of Art Will 
Represent Europe
Preparations for the thirty-s( ond Carnegie Institute International Exhibition of -SCwtera-' Faintirv&e in Pittsburgh, which will open i October IS, are well under way._Twelve European nations will-be represented this, year:They are Great Britain, France, Italy,' Spain, Germany, Union of Soviet Socialistic Republics, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Poland, Belgium, and Holland. There will be 35 paintings in the exhibition,. 253 coming from Europe, and 103 from the Unilcd
been Invited to contribute. In tho ' American section, because of tbe large number of artists Invited, each one has been limited to
- The European - paintings in . tho International were assembled by Homer Salnt;Qaudens, Director of Fine Arts, during his three-month vislt in Europe this Bprlng.The Jury of Award for the extol. bltion will meet' In Pittsburgh to-, morrow and -.ThursSay. The i bers of the Jury of Awards Miss Elisabeth Luther Cary, art \ editor oi the New York Times, i.Mr. Alfred H. Barr, Jr., director of
i artist. Dr. Salnt-Gaudens will i chairman of the jury.
I Immediately after the Interna:
 advertisement: Wanted: two - tractive affectionate - enticing females between the ages of 9-and 8.
rguests for the Phi Zeta.Formai1
C.S.EDMAN
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor Street
Letter by Ohio State Coed 
Discloses Dying Traditions
Some Traditions Have'Died Recently, But Others 
Are Already Skeletons; Large Student Body 
Curbs Close Feelings Among Students
Editors Note:How much do you know of the traditions and eusus of other sehoof In the United States7 By way of proving that 
eaeh college and university has a different type of "Call Day" and Its 
'4f variation of "campus queen," a series of contact" letters are being 
rltten for the Tartan by women students from selected schools all 
trer the country.  These letters are written In the hope that they 
may form a link between Carnegie students and Carnegie traditions, 
those of the colleges represented.
Jane Dvaney
! Of (
at home may have rushees atthelr homes.for dinner or luncheon girls living in the dormitories may have rushees; living in the dorml-' orles,*. : dormitoryforiluncheon or dinner.. 
B. period of Silence 
1. Rushing season - shall be rminated by a Silence Period of three days,, beginning at midat 4:30 o'clock afternoon. The' Bororltles will write bids to the girls they desire
by 1:30 o'clock oh Monday afternoon of the silence period In order to go out In the same mail as the formal notice of bidding by the Dean of Women.The answers of the rushees shall be ready for the sorority Wednesday of the same week 4:30 o'clock (open rushing shall continue from then events such as teas, etc.)
3. During the silence period thereshall be no communication (by note, word telephone, or In any way) which might result In the suspicion of the involved party between freshmen' (or women who
are carrying a course leading to a degree and who tuerefpre come under the eligibility rules for rushing) and-sonirlty girls.- -Sorarfty girls In this sense include pledges.4. During tbe period.of. silence the prospective pledges are advised to consult with the faculty.ad* visov of each sorority,5.- -There shall be a personal fine of ' not' lesS than' $5'' andnot -mtire than. $10 placed on a sorority member or pledge, who tries to influence the decision of a. -rushee whohas. already Banded In .her preference.
C. Pledging and Initiation of Rushees
1. In Margaret Morrison Carnegie College a prospective mem* sorority must have
Fine Arts a prospective member must be registered in due form as a regular day student in Carnegie Institute. ' of .Technology In a course leading to a degree and students In both colleges must be in good standing as interpreted by the Institute 'Eligibility Rules in order to be a candidate for initiation into any sorority. Lists of prospective Initiates 'shall be sub
sorority she may not be pledged by another in the same college year.' Any violation of these rules shall be considered sufficient groundsfor action by the 'Council against the offending member. Charges of ^uch violation or any other offense, maybe preferred by any member or members of . this Council. Fine for any violation shall not excced 325.
Ohio State is no exception.traditions here are not as strong as theV once were, and mauy of them have died either a
through the Oval, . around which the University Is btiilt. The penalty for stopping to talk on the steps of University Hall was An enforced ducking In Mirror Lake, but, gleaning an experience from my student, may I say that I
These are traditions which have died, out gradually especially to the ;ever-lncreasing number of students. Freshman men have been required to wear scarlet and grey dinks" all year long, but last year,
belled^ suffered but succccdsfi In abolished permanently.
Pay Tribute to Dead 
One of the moBt Impressive' of all traditions' is the Universitys
all students stand at attention ing the Oval, in tribute to the men of Ohio State who died in tbe
Dads Day when the fathers of the football team, wearing numbers corresponding to their sons numbers, are presented to the crowd at the game and are entertained for the week-end. Tradition football spoken In the same breath bring to anyOhio. Stater the on word "Michigan.' You may kno'
every contest but re Is so muc* j In the IV game that it Is a tradition.
Prome Become ''Social1 
Many traditions may bring beautiful thoughts-and have stainlss histories, while .others harbor tbe well known skeleton In the closet. Ohio State, of course, has a Junior Prom and a Senior Prom. I do not feel that I am telling stories out of school when I say that Ohio State
'social1' attended the proms. Last year the management of the Juulor Prom was given to the Junior honoraries and that of the Senior Prom to the 6enlor honoraries. Both proms were outstanding social and financial successes, and we are hoping that the tradition, which has started will continue.Spring and May bring with them
lophomores are awakened by bucket of water. This Is to 1 them know that they are initiates of the junior men's honorary society; the Bucket and Dipper. After carrying a  bucket and dipper to classes for a day they entertain tlie students* wftla'tt' ctfWttf. ' do a snake dance down the Long Walk, and end up by aforced Tjlu.nge; into Mirror Lake.
Have Junior Women's Honorary 
Chimes, the junior women's honorary hold their day soon after this. The actb steps of Orton Hall under the
Dial, blindfold them, and conduct them across the Oval to the Tower where secret Initiation is held.
. Llnk.Day is held on the sec Wednesday of the month and is the day of the'selection of members for tiie senior mens honorary, Sphinx. ' The -retiring members meet on the .steps of U Hall and then circl the crowd three times on the third-'picking or Unking their choices. The Initiation is held in secret at the Sun Dial,
On.' the Wednesday following Link Day, Mortar Board, the i lor. womens - honorary -makes selections. On the selected day, the old members . appear, campus' .dressed' in Caps and
the emblematic mortar boards. Tbeir initatlon is held at Mirror Lake at six oclock on Commencement Day;
Canes and Monocles Predomi
At the same time during Traditions Week, the seniors In the Law School startle the campus by carrying caues for one day /while those graduating ln> Applied optics wear, monocles.
Ttie freshiqen and sophomores bring terror to the Faculty and the Student Senate evoiy Spring, because on a certain night, the date of which-is kept very secret, they stage an egg fight You
predominant) at cach other. The campus is a sight to behold day, but as the fight 16 not
e fight along, blame for .the dam;e can not be put on anyone.I feel that Ohio State in having i enrollment of almost 10,000 s1 dents and in being situated in faiTly large city lacks a great deal traditionally. Half of the students are from Columbus aud theregreat deal of school spirit
closer feeling among the student
JANE DEVANEY, . President, Womens Self Govern;Association.. .. ~.. ____
Poetry Contest Uncovers Unusual 
Promise In Todays \ Undergraduates
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and. Atwood Streets 
HEADQUARTERS FOR FRESHMAN REGULATIONS 
THE STORE WHERE COLLEGE STYLES. PREVAIL
*10% Discount T All Student
Women Edit New 
Page fir Tartan
A new feature of the Tartan is Introduced In this issuea page "not exclusively
ivlll represent the work of the women on the Tartan staff . together with added features by women of other colleges in the country.All regular news releases of the womens organizations on cuntpus are to appear on this page. Otherwise, the editors will endeavor to make all special features of interest to tbe entire student
1933-34 Registration 
Shows Business Trend
In recent years, wliut with the 
Jnultor playing the murkct aud the 
garbage man swapping hot tips 
with -the cook, every oue has 
conic business trend consci 
Every one is on the lookout for 
the way the cat is going to j 
It has come to 6uch a point that 
English lecturers and writers oiling up'their tongues and their
' 5 tho boom of the opening vatcli for lots more. Nevertheveiyone Is watching
MargaretWe have been handed a bouquet! Even in the midst of recent claims that many among us should never have been admitted college In the first place, we have been found to have progressyouth was found not only I verse of real promise but also' show a decided lack of th^
seem to bear the satirical attitude that has been so strongly with ue since the World War pave youth supreme cause for satire.
Touch that gnarled limb
Grlfflri 'We are no longer sentimental
ists. We .revert to the true seutlinent lo be connected with lovers moons, and to the simple tbemeB of meadows and t
Our intoresl in verso surprises our elders, in fact, our tendency to adapt ourselves to "a friendlier social order'' orv to adapt
of those who are watching So  are we analyzed In the ye submitted in the contest by i dents of 209 colleges in forly-tlireu
depressionturning tie to a new era ofpersonal cc age. .Perhaps that persona! ci age Is the outer shell of a new \ sonal Interest in our government and in the world we live in.
Anyway, It 1D good to have sanity appreciated.
ductlon figures waiting - for ' that erlug graph lines to point Itself anxious, analysts, watch, .tonnage; vibrating vice ..presidents of railroads carefully count car-loadlngs, In Lho movl9s, dogged directors hound, the box office. In colleges rugged registrars regard registration, iu fact no one is immune from the. toxic spell of this business :nd. The stafr of your favorite wspaper has, like everyone else, been Indulging In a business .treud seuuce and believes to have found tbe first movement of the graph in a positive direction. After uiuny days, and not a tew nights, of in> research we have finally found that the night enrollment figures for 1933-34, as of April 3'of this year of so called grace, ure exactly l (one) above those of tho preceedlng year.
fF'.A.A. Plans Dinner 
For Saturday, Oct. 8
Howard Harpster, Carnegie foot
ball coach, will speak at a dinner held by the Womens Athletic association on Suturday, October $ in the Margaret Morrison Recreation hall. Mfr. Harpster will speak on the football penalties aud ou tbo beneGt of supporting all tho teuius.
The dinner is being held mainly as a means of acquainting the freshmen with tbe activities carried on by the W. A. A. board. Since all women are automatically made members of the W. A. A. by paying the activities fee, thedluuer should be ot interest to all the
-. A UKivorsity of Kentucky -stu*  dent, according to The Keuktnian, attended a geology class' tor -two weeks before he discovered that it - was not a Gerjnan class:
DINE and DANCE
DINEandACC
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
NO COVER CHARGE
G-E Q/tmpus I\ta
BAD NEWS FOR CROOKS 
Police radio sets were bad enough news fo crooks, but tlic new two-way system jue developed by General Electric radio engineer ie much worse. - With this new system, tli operator at headquarter ill say, "Calliiij Car 7549. Culling Car 7549. And the policoman in Car 7549 will lift the French-typo phone from the instrument board and Hay,' O.K.; buls up now? Tbe headquarters operator can tell him immediately, and the policeman can whizz out after' the crooks.. With the present police.rudio system, ho often has to spend considerable time finding -tho nearest telephone iu order lo acknowledge tho call and ask questions.
Tliia two-way radio system was developed for use by the Boston Police Department, and was demonstrated this summer. Ono division is lo be equipped immediately, and' eventually 15 of tbe 19 polico division^ of that city will bo so equipped. Transmitters in tho curs of tho different divisions will have different frequencies, but the receivers of all oars will be tuned to the hcadquurten frequently. Stewart Becker. . Princeton, 26, and Georg W. Fyler, Yulo, 29, both of the General Electric Radio Department, were responsible for a good part of tbo work of developing tho apparatus.
FAST WORK
Lightning never strikes twic place, you say? Well, soino now pliolt of lightning show that it will stride a_____,
email fraction of a secont). o get more infor mation about lightning,. in order better te distribution systems, engineers lectric High-voltaco Labi
whirr. When the film was developed, they had photographs of ten depurate strokes, and one or tliese strokes was a multiple flush of ten recurrent discharges over the snme polh. A study of the multiple (lush showed that, except for tliu first oue, each discharge had u leader stroke, relatively wenk, followed by u brilliant,, powerful How of energy from earth to cloud over the pulli ulrcudy cut by ibe leader. From this (lush the film showed illmniuutiun for about ]/20(K>lh of u second. Tliun, after a pause of u few millionths of q second, cauio another  louder and its stroke from earth to ' cloud, aud so on for ten disclinrgcs.
The photographs wcro obtained liy W. L. Lioyd, Rensscfucr Polytechnic Institute, 16, and W. A. McMorris, Oregon Stute, *28.
of the Generaobtained a ct ..............past the lens at a rate faster t . During a severe thundi
hirlcd [Ttilo a
SUBMARINE WINDOWS
When tho batbysplieru for snrvoying the realm of fish and seaweed half a milo l>aW. the surfuceof the ocean was being planned, tho construction of tbo windows presented a problem. Tlio great metal ball hud to have steel walls 1^ incbcs thick to withstand pressure of almost 1000 pounds per square inch. If glass windows wcro used, they would have to bo so thick that it would bo almost impossible to seo through them. Engmccni at llic Thomson Itcscarch Laboratory of tbe General Electric Company solved tho problem with fused quartz, - which has a much higher transparency than glass and a coinprcssivc strength abouL sis times that of'glass. In tbo laboratory where the process of making fused quartz was developed, tlirco disks were produced, eight inches in diamotor and threo inches (hick, nud were
ins; the
Only'T
Its toasted
throat trotecttmagainst irritation ytatnxt couth
MMhHi
ITSVBVLECOUM
Crop is good enough ior Luckies. 
And that meansLjuckies use ^ 
only the clean center leaves . 
these are the mildest leavesthey / 
cost morethey taste better.*
DB

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25. 1934
dTartutjie <JTartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER :
dergradUftUe o Carncttic Insl
EdJtoe-ln-CMef  _________WILLIAM LANDSBERGBntlncM Mi as err-.................JULIAN F. MUNSTERUiniflnf Editor-.._-___ROY UINETNews-Editor-._________________HAROLD J. BAERSports Editor___________-______JEROME HANSONWomwie Editor ....................MARGARET GRIFFINAssignment Editor______HERBERT F. SCHWARZj ____________DUDLEY 1PENDLETON
REPORTERS:
SPORTS STAFF: J.^Scoi
BUSINESS STAFF: Josep Gardner, Robert Greln 
Mc^itchcon?0Z>ona]dI>N< 
CIRCULATION STAFF:  AJvin Greha. Assistai
STAFF ARTISTS:
linda Grossman, Lou
Jord. Alberta McClu icnc RotWDber?. Her elbois. Albert Schwl
A Note of Welcome
I am happy to liave the opportunity afforded 
me by the Carnegie Tartan to extend to you a 
word of welcome to the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Your entering college. is prob
ably the most Important step that you bave 
taken. I hope you are going to have a moat 
satisfactoryyear In the realization of your 
hopes and ambitions. You have .years of bard 
work ahead of you, but 1 am sure you will find 
the members of the faculty friendly and anx
ious to help you with any difficulties which 
: may arise. Do not hesitate to ask their coun
sel. I shall be glad to see you at any time that 
you may desire to discuss your problems with
THOMAS S. BAKER, President.
Three Points
Considering the abyndance of advice that 
has been given the freshmen during the last
 tew days it Is very likely that by now they
 shall have cultivated an aversion toward any 
^more of it. Since too much of anything be^ 'comes tiresome, we hcstitate, for an instant, 
to. add our bit to the large amount of -ver
bosity that has lready been unloosed at them. 
'.Yet there ore three points that we cannot let
 pass unstressed because they pertain to three 
major phases of college.the work, the fac*
. .ulty, and the life at college. '
**' it is common' for you freshmn to feel that 
' you are entering college to prepare for a ca. reer,that career to begin four years hence 
when you graduate. A more.proper attitude 
for you to tak^ Is that that professional career 
begins right now. The process of speclallzation has already begun. You are here because 
you have a particular aptitude or talent in a 
certain field. You may have excelled' In it
 in high school. Here It Is much more difficult 
to excel; The work is harder and the compe
tition is keener. You will discover that only 
when "your heart is in the work will you be 
. able to make good. Beginning now, and even 
more so four years from now, a condition will 
list wherein only the fittest survive,. This is 
th, beginning of your professional career aud 
it behooves you to be one of the fittest If you 
intend to remain In It. .
Cultivate a close relationship, with your faculty Consider them more in.the light of ad
visers Tather than' teachers; ' You will find 
them always ready to sharpen your interest,
' hear1 your ideas and consider your opinions.
. A' great deal can be gotten from your teachers outside the classroom. If you let them,
 - -th-sy-tfMJ -be', and 'VWA. to ^.. SPAVr..very^loee.
friends. They are Interested in yon and.wa;nt 
to draw out the best that Is In you. Get' into 
;_dIscussIojj.s. with them, not only concerning 
your school work but also other things of im-. 
' portance to you. It will surprise you to find 
- :how closely your interests He.' Bridge the .gap 
that existed between teacher and pup|l in high
 school. Your instructor will give you a helpIng "hand across.
t college you not only prepare for the busl'ness.ot earning a .livelihood, you also prepare 
for the business of living. There is a splendid opportunity at Carnegie for you to acquire 
~ the ^-subtle, elusive "technique of living" be'' cause of the greatly diversified type of student 
hre. Although you have one prime interest, 
.that-'particular study you are pursuing, dont 
".'become specialized to the extent that you dis* 
. regard all other interests. If you are an engijreer/.'db&'t ' neglect to read books or to cuitlyate^a. taste for, inu6ic. If you are an. architect 
':. or ai artist,dont shun all things of a scientific 
n'aturei ln other words, Increase your inter* 
it that your mind becomes more broadO'.-iejiied' and your existence becomes more round* 
y. ^e; ::LaTiito exchange viewpoints aud take 
Hmdre'than a passing interest In .'what other^ople are thinking. Dont allow yourself to 
^become restricted to, the narrow confines of 
v-.-^du:*'chief pursuit. Concentrate bn learning 
'.Htiow . to enrichyour life.
abput the pride -and faitb that her graduates 
have always held toward Carnegie.
Armbands and dinks are Imposed not to 
make freshmen look lowly, but rather to help 
promote the personal feeling among freshmen 
that they are becoming part of theclan.
There is no doubt that black bow-ties be
come surprisingly bedraggled by. Thanksgiving 
and it is surprising what dignity Is lacking Jn 
the absence of high school Insignia. It is more 
surprising to find, with the removal of regula
tions, that a certain glamour that goes with 
being a freshman is missed when dinks and 
armbands are .finally doffed.
This year, freshmen are not expected to tor
ment the sophomores or to ruffle the dignity of 
senior judges. The sophomores are ready for 
a new-act. They have thrown off the masks 
of traditional enmity.
It 1s the last word" at Carnegie to follow 
regulation^. The conspicuous law-breaker Is 
no longer in vogue. Trials will not be fash
ionable this year. Regulations, like the air 
mail, are socially correct.
In Union There Is Strength
The newly formed Association of College 
Editors is, without a doubt, the hDaDo promising 
of all the attempts to make the influence of 
the undergraduate felt 1n public affairs. The 
idea of uniting student newspapers through
out the country so that the crystallization of 
student... opinion into one significant whole 
might, be .achieved-is one indeed worthy of 
encouragement. By consolidating the wide 
j'ange of opinion that now exists an the-edi
torial pages of the college newspapers, the 
college press ceases to be a play-toy" and is 
given a far more valid justification for existIt is safe to say .that the undergraduate of 
today, having been nurtured on the doorstep 
of the depression. is fa more concerned with 
the future and his place in it than was his 
brother of 1928. He is vitally interested in na
tional affairs and policies because now, more 
thun ever, they reach home. In most cases be 
possesses strong opinions about them. If, by 
means of the A. C. E. those opinions can be 
ascertained and massed together, they might 
exert great pressure and influence on whatever 
happens in Washington. But whether they do 
or not, if the undergraduate ie made to feel 
more govemmenl-conscious. if he takes seri
ously and works for the three-fold aim of the 
association, peace, more efficient government 
and a higher standard of living, the associa
tion will have performed a valuable service.
The trend of government today is toward 
the-point where Washington shall have a 
Anger In almost everything we do. It behooves 
us lo see that that finger is an intelligent one.
Senate vs. Arms Makers
What diBtlngulshOB th Nye munitions inves
tigation from the ordinary Senate investiga
tions Is the fact that the committee has been 
able to uncover so much evidence definitely 
proving that bribery and corruption of public 
officials has taken place. Although' the inves
tigation hns heen in full swing for. thrg.eweeks, 
 grait part of the time has been'spent in 
reading into the record letters and documents 
in which the terms. 'graft," bribery, ''palmoil," "commissions, and "greasing the ways 
are used with unusual abandon.
The manufacturers who furnished these let
ters from their files had plenty of time to de
stroy them, since all Senate investigations 
are announced about six months before they 
begin, but apparently they thought that no 
disclosure, no'matter how startling, could stir 
up the public enough to affect the armament
This attitude on the part of the arms makers 
is in line with the opinion of competent ob
servers, who at the beginning of the Investiga
tion were 'unanimous in their decision that  
big furore would .be caused, but that there 
would be no tangible results.
Journalists who are versed in the ways of 
the lethargic Senate were positive that' the 
lawmakers would not go so far as to enact 
Senator Nyes proposed legislation "which will 
either place the American munitions Industry 
under strict federal regulation or create'a'gov* 
ernment monopoly for the industry.* If such 
legislation Is not enacted it Is obvious that the 
avms aikevk-'ftlH^iUln.-ue' unabated tfceliun
ethical business practices and their traffic in 
blood and lives.
However, now that-the -investigation has 
brought to light so many startling facts and 
promises to continue to do so, there is a 
. chance -that something may be accomplished in 
the . way of legislation. It would certainly 
seem: that American civilization Is in a sorry 
state If armament manufacturers are allowed 
to continue purchasing public officials, stirring 
up international fear and suspicion by starting 
rumors of war, and selling munitions to po
tential American enemies. Although the Amer
ican arms manufacturers can not be accuscd 
ofas much crookedness as the foreign mem
bers of the munitions ring, the evidence al
ready presented is sufficiently damning to war
rant making the entire munitions Industry a 
government monopoly.
Regulations Are in Vogue
' j'freshman entering for the first tlmewithin' 
. the. b.ounde of Carnegies campus will usually 
''-"be frank in admitting that he does not know 
I :: much-about the "ropes." He riot only , welI' .comes advice but often ^goes in search of it. 
" Therefore, his attitude toward the tradition 
r(-known; as plebe regulations comes froii) upper;o^ class ''advisers rather than from his own 
 mlqd
^cfrhis 'editorial..:then. is for helpfulupper^masBtoen as well as for freshmen. .
Carnegie's - freshman regulations. .. while ob------T^incotporating cthe
What Is Being Said
Ybuth must not he afraid to face the fact that It has to change politics, It has to change business ethics, It baa. to change tbe theories of economics and, above everything else; It has to change its own weaknesses.Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt: ,
The jazz age is-at its'ragged tail end. It is no longer smart to. he immoral.Rabbi A.
manized. But education' continues to devote its energies to.gathering facts aud is scornful of.'mere opinion."Dr. James. P.-Hosic, professor of education at Columbia;
. Europe lias hot yet struck bottom politically, though^it certainly lias economically: There 1s a final struggle due soon between Communism and Fascism.William Allen White.'-
Writers Row
Editor's Note:This new column Is beIng devoted to Interesting literary contri
butions from the faculty and student body. 
Including both present and former mem
bers of Carnegie. We shall be glad to re
ceive articles at the Tartan office, on'such 
topics aa art, religion, politics, social prob
lems, and education, or on other subjects 
of general Interest on the campus. Any 
style qf writing, of any length from the
I have a girl friend. We 
her adolescent dreaming, she determined to achieve a successful career. I' won't drift into tbe drab, shallow channels of life, she swore. "I will not marryI will not be absorbed into anothers life, until I have established my own life." She often said this, and dreamed of the great things she would do. One week after we had graduated from high school,--she got married. She wrote me letters bursting with excitement and hanpiness.Her.words sputtered across the pages like strings of firecrackers. "After all, marriage is a
happen. I think Ill write a novel. I have half of my plot already. Now that the knitting
tqns shall I put t
I met a young man some time.ago. He was a radical CommuniBt. We argued bitterly, yet we were good friends.  I -called him a fanatic and he called me a snob. I told him that he didn't know/.w.hat1 he was talking aboutthat he merely repeated what others had said and took a -lot of Tldlculous theories for granted. . He accused me of deliberately shutting-my eyes
ofi definite symbol
vants of the people, who try to elevate themselves by the so-called -dignity of their labor. But whether or not you have talent, you are only a worker so that the world might extrapt from you any ability you have, and then toss you-aside as you deserve. The worlO has room.only for. those who contribute somethingto it. I jeered and .told him that the quickest way for him to be cured of Communism, would be to-get an actual taste of their Utopia
he was on his way to the Soviet to find out for himself. From Moscow, Me wrote me glowing descriptions of the wonderful suntry which offered everything,, to its
A boy I know, was born to write. He ha'd been a sickly child, and never had much contact with other childreh. He turned to books. .-He gathered'-'bl&i^no'wl: edge from the'researches of the psychologists and the ravings of the philosophers. But their humanity and beauty, he did not see. He was carried away by the BUtglngs of the  unconscious. He swaggered he wrote of himself with adolescent erudition. He was filled with an inordinate thirBt for tbe understanding of the Egothe great "I. He had a great sensitiveness and power of emotion, but his characters were - psychological symbolsnot people!. He knew books, but he didnt know people. So he turned to me, "Tell me what you find among the people you know," he wrote.
 the spirit above the flesh','- The
above tbe basic instincts and flnd the spirit,*He worked hard and sent hi^.manuscrlpts to all the editors -he could-.think of. His desk was soon bulging' with re-,' jection slips. He was bewildered to find 1 everyone against him.But today I heard from him agaln.'.Ne-j? . York is. delightfully somnolent and we are , all pretty dopey end boring. I have worked put several theories of writing. In me my writing will become, coldvand ap\ peal only to the "basic instincts.1'That1De
very definite form of hypnotism through air sorts of nthods^nin paper. And th greatest'tliought, the most radical belief Is banar and pedantic. .You night* help by', trying to place some of my stuff.I dont .care'where.. I want money.
Idolized him. He carefully by expert governesses and tutors.- When tlie revolution broke out in Russia, his parents sold whatever valuables'they had left and smuggled him out. H^went to Paris and wrote to lD only when ^ he needed money for gambling debts. 'At least he was honest about it and we couldn't refuse. Then for a -year he disap-' peared. His parents got ' postcard from frica saying he would write. 1 But he
the swirl of a mad Parisian'life. It dragged him under. He tired , of the endless debaucheryhe was bor*d with the monotthe degradation. Some deep
and find adventure, and a life that would either make a man of him or finish him. ' So he enlisted in the Foreign Legion fop five years.His letters are living pictures. I received one today. "I am stationed on the outskirts of Algiers," he writes. "Life is
times I get leave and break loose 1 for a couple of .days , to retain my moral and mental balance.\ It is necessary here. All . I can see Is the flat, never changing liori, zori, and the lazy procession of caravans "threading endlessly across the desert. Even the wind is not like the winds in other countries,-but is a,nightmare called 'sorokko, which blows steadily in one direction.
TIM IE ROUNDER
HELLO PLEBE! Five years Four Years Three years
didn't know you!"
. but I think they i
uversation with "Hi, Ellen. 1 see you're i Scarbellles now!" 
NICELY DONE! DEPARTMENT The sophomore tackle whoso first name is George couldn't decide whether his laBi name was Jerkowitz or Yurkowichso he changed it to Hall.
WHICH reminds, us of-Jack Raymond Knopf!'
THETA 21 papers pieosc copy. 
SUCCESS STORY . . . During
dined (accent first syllable) the boss arid the boss daughter. During the second two weeks he whin,ed and dunned his many friends in$1,500 worth of Goodrich tiies. At the end of the first month his alary was raised from $90 to $260 >er month pins expenses.
GIT Along, Little Dogger, Git AlongTHAT THING you have seen about the campus belongs to Joe (College) Folio. It consists of .a cut t Star chassis, a Continental Six motor, a Whippet front end, a Packard radiator shell, two Essex carburetors, and four super balloon tyres. It will probably come to a
Isision. Ask your English teacher. 
WRITE YOUR CONGRESSMAN! 
NAZI THEME SONG . . . "Here Come The YiddishBang! Bang! 
OR VICE VERSA ... A Carnegie Hitlerite was heard to remark that Adolph is a good man who has made some mistakes.
ANOTHER HARPSTER . . .The hectic height of last yeavs FlebePitt fracas, Tech's ball, Pitts 19- yard line, second down, Maurice .(Baby) Patt at quarter: "Le.ti p\int andcatch them-fiat-footed! 
SOPH LAMENT,Freshmen, Freshmen, everywhere And none without a dink. 
ANOTHER HARPSTER ... An aspiring, perspiring Frosh footballer stepped up to hard driving Coach Simon L. O'Toole the other day - and asked 'Why dont you paint the dummy here?" "War*
said the deceased.
Editor, should pay less attention
bottle, of champagne past the customs inspectors. So she attired herself in her latest and best, stuck -, the bottle'down her 6hirt front, and prepared to stun the ships photographers; Justas she raised .her hand in a gay salute to thegaping multitude, the cork popped.
SUMMER SEEN SIGN:Leaving?Thank You!Chamber of.Commerce.
NOTICE!.........Frank ("He LovesIt") Sanford, the, Institutes  nu ber one gigolo has announced rtew tim-e schedule. Ho-starts-at nine, now, and knocks off about
BUCK TEETH . . . 98c,
CRAZY OVER HORSES George (LgCon) Hildebrand,
York oil company .... behind the pumps.
ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW about Aleen WetsEpin local cx-dramat whose dally column in the Pi has been so widely $yndical Chester. (Show-Stealer) Wall used to. refer to her as "Iddy Bidintimate friends.
INSCRIPTIONS: PHILADELPHIA BANKFounded 1020 Erected 1924 Expanded 1923 
For Sale 1932
CHIT CHAT . . . Lou Gordon turned on' the Morro Castle the week before . . . Miami Meyer Is married . . . Sandys next! .Bill Becker isnt girl-shy . . , hes just being fajthfti to Shirley Temple . , President Goodrldge Is lociklng for  someone to replace Bevevino in his Big-Four Club . . . Bob Greiner koew Kaletta Mulvihill!' -v . . Hi MatConnell - who' ilabored under-many haxah naiqei
WELCOME,  FRESHMEN
On Second Tliiiiglit
Dudley D.-Pendleton
Tbe pacing of the Vinson Replacement Bill in March by both Senate and House , was Americas three quarter billion dollar entrance fee Into the-International armaments race. This bill provided funds to build tbe U.' S. navy up to the limits spccfled by the Washington and London navnl-treaties.This race, howeVor, in which the United States is oniy one of the many contestants has aroused so little of our "school spirit'that we are now sponsoring a new contest all of our own,.a game of "catcb if you.con between the army
tho President, decided that It too could Bhare in the tun and so In July a committee beaded by formThe report that this committee submitted on July IS makes It'only too obvious that this is just another case of "keeping up with the Joneses. In one section of the report we find: "In gnral aviation,
world position equal to that.held by our Navy;" in another section: "Airplanes become obsolete In a
the face of these I
MORE CHIT . . . One of our more prominent fraternity houses harbors a special garbage can . . . for cracked Ice and beer bottles! . . . The Dragon Society .has eleven vice presidents ... no president and they all frown at Saint
Smiles Sherman, bit off curricular offices than they. could Chew, hut are trying-to hold them down, anyhow ... .In spite of law .and order.. . ...Bert Miinhall stilf. swears that those shoes thrown .from the girls dorms at Ills singing friends were horseshoes . .
CAR'NEGIE 'Teachers. into Girls and fellows Pump^ education Like a bellows.
pARNEGIANUS . . We know an otthio -oceupaiit-on tfcla cauipw who. hides In a closet every: time he hears a certain professor approaching. Its easy  to'rfecog'nizc his footsteps because he has .only.
time that  Lee Nutter did. 
KAMERAD! . . . John Suelzer ordered dinner the other night at the University in his very best Ger:
the fact that they .t head of skillet labor. tSAFETY FIRST The President  of Student Council wears a belt and suspenders . . . You wont , catch him .wltu his pants
was paid ten dollars a day in addition -;to', salary, . boar.d, sleeping quarters, and all the beer he co,uld drink, (a lot) during liis month's incarceration Jn - the Aluminum plant as a strike breaker and protector of. company property during the strike.
NICE GUY . . . Whan nn* r.tb** Cwens (Name withheld) suggested that Bill Becker scare the Plehfea as he sold them dinkA ^nd-stuff: the Popular Prexy replied "Why dont you stand behind the counter: That'll frighten them..  '- 
TYPICAI/HUtJHALL ITEM !. A1 Irwin ran a lMln(>ran *lth
which it says is r"of Sclent strength to' meet the i serious war threat against
force still mor$ absurd, the report continues: "The 'Air Invasion of the United States and the 'Air defense of : the United States aro conceptions of those who fall to realize the inherent limitation of aviation and to consider ocean barriers . . . The fear that has been industriously cultivated In this
civil, is inferior to that of the rest of the world is unfounded. The public, ever fearful for the national security, gives credence to comparative statements of strength of air forces which are often at variance with iactB."The present plan calls for 461 type airplanes to be purchosA. funds. The remaining planes will be built out of the 1935 appropriation.' That the United States should expend millions for the construction of.'these planes seems inexcusable in the face of the facts (1)
United States now leads the world in commercial and naval aviation and (3) that, planes become obsolete within a few years.
Sputzle (Tag by Bur2io) Terebus. Munhall noticed A1 watching the MMCC windows and remarked, "Hes looking for a pane so he can
AND THAT REMINDS US OF A STORY . . . Once upon a time there was a man who combed his hair with a steel comb. One day as he was grooming his hair, a tooth broke off tbe comb anid lodged in his head. Years later he got mai4lftd and in due course of time there was a little stranger, grew andgrew uneventfully
sharp pain in the side. He was Immediately operated upon.
It was appendicitis.
ALMOST A LAW SUIT . . .. George Goodridge bought a new store suii for $32.50. Freddy Liiman had one.made to measure for $26.50. The -two suits axe exactly
WHO OWNS PITT COLLEGE? . . . Directly after the Turner episode, a leading Pittsburgh industrialist . called twelve of the most prominent and active men'on the PJiicampus, including the brains of The Campus Index,'
WE ARE. .SATISFIED, that the Arts-Ball Committee will be well manned with. Jimmy McNaughdon
Dear Editor
Everyone', present at the com-! nientement exercises in June was greatly shocked'to see William; .1?, McNair, . Pittsburghs ; clowning Mayor and a Carnegie Trustee,', shake his head vigorously andotherwise create - a . disturbance' during ' Waldomar Kaempifert's speech praising President Roosevelts "Brain'. Trust. 
. The,Mayors ftctiona-were so disrespectful that. several' graduating seniors ' drew up' a petition' cofidemning JtfcNdlf and sfnt it to tKe City newspapers, wlio in'publishing
citizen. Eyen the'two. patters wlio
dog combaunlsts to Illiterate prolessorsand, ------------*---
ateMrqUMcNair:But. perhaps everyone else, -was.wrong, and the Mayor was right in' his - opinion  of the "Brain Trutj Current Opinion. |
EDUCATION FOR POLITICAL^ LIFE j
. "I never scratched a ticket in my life. Ive had to hold my nose lot'e of times, but I always voted et straight." ,{
Such was the proudstatement of "the chairman of a Kansas county . committee of one of themajor partlfes recently. It throwB a littlelight on the Questions of wby.men hestitate to admit that thsinchief interest in life is politics, .and. why f no respectable student cares to u&- '' dertake politics as his. profession. J . American politics at present Is/ not a profession. It is a game, to/ be played for the -excitement itf offers. In rural communities it-is played principally by old. men! settled In tbelr political-hablta^.ansk bouud by those habits to -the obfor nothing more than graft.'
pation of young men and woraea motivated by a desire to -improve government, rather than merely to get certain' men into elective aad ppointlve offices because tlieyhavo been good partyfor
Universities - are in an advan* tageous positionto assist in this ,change, i In the first place the university is the logical agency lor the study*of political methods and of ways in which they could be Improved. To tbe university belongs the job of trainingexpert career politicians. In the second plucc the .'university brings together young people of average intelligence or above,. who ..with tsliingence or abovte, who, wili beneficial influence in political organizations and relieve the word
> that he Is being permitted to witness an upheavel in the development of the young generation.The war era and. Its succoedlng, approximate 16:year period brought to us a swift, giddy, and thoughtless group of people. Thfe college student is not'different or-worse than the rest of the population but gives you ah. emphasised, vlew of
thrown with the college group for the past three years has noted'a change. The rah-rah" boy .Is already'old stuff. It has long been
able type. of football rallies..The day of tb9 polite moron seems distinctly past. - Time: was when the - impeccable, frame of this personage loomed large ,upon the campus .horizon. .Mere ..grinds book-crackers, and scholars.-. w,ere dirt before his elegance.' He.-'^rod ,the campus amid the-jingle, of many watch.chain keys, the aimless flop of the 20-inch bell bottoms and the aroma of gin, perfiimc, and ignorance. But bis day -13 definitely doomed on the: campus, Somehow it has taken the depression to suggest to young men and women that one doesn't succeed (n life by falling In college and that courtesy and smartness >ln the polite sense make the gentlemen and the lady. Such Is the evolution a '
DO NEWSPAPERS FOSTER. . CRIME?.................
/ Undoubtedly, recent conditions have caused a large number of criminals to . turn t crlpes:.o a more' sensational nature.' The /newspapers of the; country, sensing a golden opportunity to increase sales, have. made the. most of. ,a wonderful opportunity for breath-taking news.' As ra datural sequence, , editorial columns in practically' all' the' mji*  publications in the United States bave sounded a-clarion call ..for-bigger and:better policemen,-.-and more and nolscF gujjij. "Ws must mobilize the country to. fightthe: everincreasing  crime wave!,1' ;> -This,..after all, ie a vory ,false vlcv/-,: and-is useful - only --when thought .and-energy are.at a.premiurn. Even a casual inspection of history teaches us tha.t:laws :and punishment :are highly, ineffective ;as; a crime deterrent. - -Punishing criminals to.stop crime is. like swatting, files t 'rtd -.the worldl-ol' insects: It' is. commonly ' knojvnthat, .alter, all, the ca,uses. of, crime may be .classified into tw groups, pathological, and , economic, causes.. ..Pathological caiises, thibso, mental quirks or. weaknesses which
.muat be treated as ch; It'.. vi'us that an individual is'httiore responsible ''for' ' his weaknesses than lie is for thtplor. ofihia lr. Pathological "criminals, once 'detected, must tie.- cured if; possible, and if ;n cui'able, segregated ru societ' for life. And/ as We knw, punishment is but little related1 to
opportunities for an "inst*'fllvellhoo. (jtice an individual !;bas made a mistake, econoitc-and oocial 'bhrrilars make it alrabBt-'iniposslblefor-him-tb-agaiir'Tsb 
normal place in society.
Withlii' the last few decades1 this nation has become the most'lawless in the world. -One of the very-fe'
hare tried the experiment >of; eliminating crime .news .for a^cer^ain period, or of never printing it{0" thq; fitst-nagd:'' but witlj, li|tle sueces8.l^'he/-faat.m%inathapfcrlme la news.and that-the putilc ha..a to. uifecWii&'ftsp&pera to piint ateiadfountB.yldualBktidVtliel

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25. 193*5
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
 
BY JERRY HANSON
STH ANOTHER fall, practice period completed, Carnegie football fans ' ced by a set-up which has been greeting them.annually upon their i to the school forthe winter term. The team looks good. Ru* are widespread as to its extensive improvement over the teams of e past seasons. The question is: will the teamprove itself in action'lis year. I believe, the answer llei.............................3 Turtan lineup will have to facei teams strouger than they have bad In Che past.
lattaek which was noticeably lacking during the past 6eason. Spencers I chief warning Is speed and remarkable drive. Patt, who has excited a deal of local newspaper comment, plays like a finely adjusted machine In the quarterback position. The teams success will depend to a targe extent on the precision and quickness of this mans wit Mihm, In the half position, has added so to his usefulness of last year that ID is apparent his new placement is his natural one. His position at blocking half enables him to make full use of his weight, and from this position he can come around on reverses to pound through the weak slde'of the line. Terebus. makes up whatever he lacks In size by a very nifty running abilitytricky le .the word. And. although Sputzy sometimes has difficulty In seeing over the line, his passing ability is on a par vith Patt's.
THE FIRST STRING line is not only heavier than last -years, but It Is f86ler. At the ends Sanford and Lewis should form a pair equal to any la the country. Lewis we know' to be' a gg&at end, and it remains for ' '- > very fast sad good pees. _________ns of the., defensive line,filled by Doloway and Croft, both well-seasoned players, and each tipping the beam In the 220s. If Henrlon and Chyznewskl fulfill the promise they have shown during practice, they will he the major reasons for an Improved Carnegie. SQUad. Both are fast and effective blockers. Trbovlch In the center berth, has maintained a remarkable record of consistent passing. On the defensive he is perhaps the headthe team when it comes to diagnosing the opponents plays.
of the Carnegie schedule does not appear to be so favorable, balanced, with possibly a siege of tough games the last three week-ends in October, when we meet Michigan State, Notre Dame, and Purdue University, all In a row. - By the time these games are in. the current offing the Harpster menagerie will have been tested and aipproved, We hope, and In consistent good shape to meet the demands of those three
ly the freshman squad has been used as raw meat for the Varsity scrimmages. As new material goes, the green grldders make up a group which compares favorably with plebe squads of former years, and give promise at least in that they are a bunch of big boys, whichj to be the premier requisite of Carnegie t
the deadliest freshrr a schedule for the Bigger tesinferbut that doesn't frighten us ability shown by the present Tartan squad Is
; have picked a bui
Pitt eleven. Mark my
DUQUBSNE JS TOUTED rather highly in the current reports, and It looks as if the Hllltoppers dohave a cagey combine, but it is admitted that .the new backfleld combination is yet untried. They are a large and tough buncli, and their development will be Interesting to watch.
all of which will be played a
A GLANCE AT THE PICTURES in the upper center of the page will demand a .second glance. Yes, they're Carnegie boys, co-eds,' Mas Hannuin put the de^l through and spent all of one Saturday driving
1934 FOOTBALL SCHEDULESeptember 29....................................Geneva College at Beaver Falls, Pa.October 6..................................................Miami University at PittsburghOctober 13...................................Michigan State at East'LansIng, Mich.October20.................................................Notre Dame at South Bend, Ind.October27...................Purdue University at Pittsburgh (Homeeomlng)November 3.......................................New York University at New YorkNovember 10...............................Temple University at Philadelphia, Pa.November 17.........................................Duqiiesne' University at PittsburghNovember2S...............................University of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
New Ball Dimensions, Regulations 
Give Offensive Edge Over Defensive
Greater Freedom Seen in 
Passing Rules; Ball ie 
Longer, Thinner
Becauee'of the fact that In the 
honorable old game of football, 
the defeuse seems not only to have 
caught up to the offense, hut In 
some ways has even passed It, the 
Rules committee has decided to .give tlie offense another chance, and has changed the shade of the official ball and made a few changes In the regulations. The' main reason for . all this feeling of benevolence toward those on the offense is the fact that under the previous rules, the olfense was primarily handicapped by the regulations concerning the well-known Pdssing attack.
Since the experiment with the old pigskin began, the dimensions and shape of the ball have been changed twice to-date.
However, the greater dimension has now been shortened so that the present hall now more closely resembles Us old self. This 'resemblance must not. be taken too seriously by asplrlng'players,. hbwe-ver, for there Is still a world of difference, and unfamiliarlty with The handling of the new ball will ptoye the downfall of many trledPfove Itself to be a boon players on the offense. Whereas, "before^ the art of passing was one "which" was cultivated and accompllshed by a comparatively small
the short as Is has only been ._' duced by one inch, any man with a medium sized hand can now pass . ??uh.a Arm grip, rather than'from a balance, such as was previously - ihe case.  
.Although the ball Is^much easier
to get off, it is also -much herder 
to receive. This being true, it will 
al9o be harder' to intercept, so that 
In the end it is really better for 
the offense, and the defense Is 
more left out in the proverbial cold.  
' Prob^iy me. main.disadvantage of the' new baty. lies In its disability - to adapt Itself to Hie' * Very good punters can. still _ off good kicks with this ball, but Jack" Buckler, star kicker of the. Army says, the best kicker in the
the spiral shape of the ball, there Is also a great possibility of the presence of a grt number of low, sharply-angled punts, with
During the* coming season, the only., penalty for each uncompleted pass over-one, will be' merely other .down, whereas previously;' the penalty wasi five yards.,x Another new. ruleis ;t]jat it is now possible to pass oyer the goal line. This is, of* course, another advantage for the offense, so it is t up to the defense to be right their toes.
PROBABLE PLAID LINEUP FOR GENEVA TILT
First row, from left to rightSanford, Pittsburgh, L. E., 180 his.; Croft, Bentlcyvllle, (C.) L. T., 220 Tbs.; Henrlon, Charleroi, L. G., 192.Tbs.; Chyznewskl, Ambrldge, R..G., 1k72 Tbs.; Dolloway, Port Allegheny, R. T., 210 tbs.; Lewis, Washington, (C.) R E., JBO Tbs. Second rowSpencer, Buffalo, F. B.,
Fall Training 
Augurs Well 
For Carnegie
Spencer, Patt, Mihm and 
Terebus Make Great 
Back Combination
With the first game of the sea
son only five.days away,the var
sity football team has been Anally 
rounded Into a fairly' definite unit. Strength in the backfleld is. pretty well assured, and the line-is gradually strengthening with practice.
The backfleld, as was arranged in the practice, session, consists of Patt, Mihm,' Terebus, and Spencer, Babe Pa-tt, though . only. a sophomore, is .assured /of.,,his, berth, principally through.,j,qfgVl, passing ability. . In .pr&saaspn practice, he has demonstrated.-rhis ability to throw the ball faBt'; and straight and will probably'tie one of. the keystones oC the Tartan attack, tie is also an able hall carrier though he hasn't done much of this so far. For [reserves in-this capacity Charlie Spiaak and Bill Carlson have been alternating satisfactorily, and both will probably see action during the season In relieving Patt. ' 1
Joe Mihm at outside half has been blocking well and will probably start In this capacity. He also does . some 'ball carrying and usually performs well as he Is exceptionally fast ' for bis weight. Butch Vorderberg, another blocking half, will prove above the average as a reserve In this position. Butch is tough and can block and has had much experience in this position.
Spencer .and'. Terebus . are the present .. running: combination. Spencer has recovered completely from his shoulder operation, and hla plunging has shows promise in the early season warm ups. Steve Terebus is, of course, as fast a rabbit-back as one could wish for, and in the open field Is an exceptionally hard man to tackle. Steve will probably start most of the games and. . when necessary will be ably relieved by other fast backs from the . squad. Another running combination that has looked good in practice is Lehman and Bowser. FreddyLehman is a hard running boy and tough. He shines on the'defense and may be called into action frequently in that capacity. "With Bowser, the combination looks even better as Owen is a fast lad and a tough one to' stop. In the open field his running is pretty to watch and .very effective.The line has been, doing as well as could be expected. Lib Lejris at end -has picked up considerable speed over the summer and much can he expected of him. He is still sure on pass receiving and defensive, and. barring his jinx, should be one of the mainstays'of -the 1934 team. . Goona Sanford. on the other end, though, not quite up to Libin ability , is holding down his Job satisfactorily. He looked
exceptionally good on the end 
around play, the first one to look 
that way in years. He i9 particularly well adapted to the Harpster system of attack and defense and,' Cor this reason, beat out Goodrldge who will play in a reserve capacity
t afford to let Goody go for a while as ho is one of the most dependable reserves on the squad. Burns and Moore are also doing substitute work on the ends and proven quite adequate in practice.
tackle there will be Dutch Croft and. Cliff Doloway both of whom will be able to go into ac-on Saturday. This v
George Hall and Challlnor.
The guards are the present weak point of the team, with no experienced candidates left since John Anderson broke his arm early in the Many sophomores are out for this position how.and the probable selections seem' to be Chyzski and Heririon, both of whom performed well' during pre-seasoi
liberty Engraving <Zbmpamjj
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES.  
PHOTOGRAPHY,
|COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL 
"ARTt 
FOR ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 
PURPOSES _
LABGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARDIZED
TYPEWRITERS
$14.95 to $75 00 
rIddIsPPdsf
Purchase -Price.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWEITER CO._ 644 LIBERTY AVENUE
KOOKLE YS TEA ROOM
3710 FORBES STREET 
Special Lunches For Students
tba tUry oiio 
powUhio r v,-d*  groohbrtEOC. > Above < A fin Krt
hoped that the present hold111 ii ' - 
experienci3 will improve with practice and,nd will form a suitable center attack nt-the line.
At ^center, of course, there is :eve Trbovicb, mainstay of the ne. Steve Is one of the finest centers Tech has had,' being an sc: Kritscher and Boyd to do his
Geneva Game 
Opens Year In 
Scot Schedule
Team Formerly Coached 
by Harpster Primed 
For Lid-Lifter
Carnegies 2934 football team 
.starts its current campaign 
Saturday. againBt Geneva. The Covenanters Are not exactly a new addition to the Tartan, schedule, having played the Tartans on. eev<?ri nrnvinn occasions. This year, the relatione are" renewed with Interest as Conch Harpster sending in hie .Scottish . boys against aa aggregation that he himself coached during the season before last. On this occasion the. Harpster coached lads'of Beavi Falla held a strong Tartan
game will be .played 'at Reeven Stadium In Beaver Falls. On their home' grounds' -the Geneva lads should be just that much toughei
Robertson as coach Beede Is sure' to spring some of the famous sensational plays tbat ho made memorable at Westmlnete where he coached after leavini Carnegie. Beed was one of Cai neg/e's best quarterbacks nod ntRde famous one of Wally Steffen' most famous plays. He first ex< cuted the now well known splnnor
Ticket Exchange j 
At A. A. Office
Tickets for the' Geneva game, to be played theie,  will , be exchanged at the Athletic Office In the Gym* naelum building, Wednesday and Thursday, SeptemFor* the three home games: 'Miami oh October 6; Purdue on October 27;
freshmen will exchange their tickets September 27 and 28, and October 2 and 3
play going over the coal line from 
twelve yards back against one of 
Knute Rockue's most formidable 
Notre Dame teams, for the first 
touchdown Carnegie ever scored 
against the Irish. Dyke Deede has 
a fine coaching record and the local public will watch with interest his coaching debut at Geneva.According to reports the Cove*
varsity of last season, including
The Theater Gnild-and the. AmeS lean Theater'Society of Pittsburgh are making: a special offer to followers of the legitimate stage. Subscriptions are being taken for'a series ot six plays, three to be given by the. Theator Guild and three' other productions by wellknown producers.______________'
B)- subscribing to the series, slaStage magazine to Guild subscribe
Nixon Theater Building.
trump the Tartam
Commencing Wednesday, Sept. 26
; WILL RYSHANEK'S ORCHESTRA.
r INFORMAL
WEDNESDAY  FRIDAY  SATURDAY
$1 per person including midnight breakfast
7le 
HOTEL
Goiiie Oh Over To The
 NEW SKIB INN
Mx announces the reopening, of the 
New Skib Inn faturirig many new
Wonderful food at reasonable prices 
New large second hand book shop
Barber Shop 
Haberdashery
Yalet Shop 
Shoe Repairing Agency
RICHARD WHITNEY, '33Majoring 
id chmistty. A Camel tasto simply 
sweU,.he says, and what is more impor
tant, it refreshes my energy.
A PLE ASURE that drives
away fatigue arid listlessness!
s.'Tm ^specializing ;in chemistry, which 
i large amount of 'lab' work, 
says Richard Whitney, 35. "Its inter* 
estingbut a tough grind. After a long, 
hard session, a Camel tastes simply swell 
 and what is more, important, it re
freshes my energy and I feel fit as a 
fiddJe in shojrt order.'Ive smoked a lot 
of Camels .and never yet have they 
ruffled my nerves.
Evcryoue is subjcct to strainwhether 
-physical^meacnl,-or emodonaLSo it's 
important to know that Camels do re^ 
lease your stored>up energy.
Th findings of a famous scientific lab
oratory have confirmed Camels 'ener
gizing effect. So begin today to eojoy 
Camels. Enjoy their wholesome and de
lightful "lift. Enjoy heir mildness and * 
rich* good taste. Enjoy them often! Camel 
pays millions more for finer, more ex
pensive tobaccos, and die cbsdiet tobac
cos in Camels never jangle the nerves.
 i^RfSWOttAN PilOT. Mrs. Cedi Kenyon, ofWibadfMass, says: Speak* 
ing of cigarettes. Camels are the mildest cigarette I know. Morning, noon, and 
night 1 can smoke them steadilywithout a touch of upsc
CAMEL S COSTLIER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR MERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

THE .CABNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1934,
THE CARNEGIE PLAID
. EDITOR
K H. McGannon 
STAFF 
. ' G. W. Vessels 
H. B. Ingraham 
W. V. White
Carnegie Plaid
lie-'vlew-t the.Iact.-tbat.thlB-is 
the: first editorial jilgnfledbythat 
naiehat has eVer appeared in 
'Th  Carnegie Flaid/Jl might be 
weli to - describe some ot the past 
history of that publication. Previ*
g anu t this year, the night school 
page has always been: referred t 
as The Plaid." and for the last 
year, has carried .no banner of Its 
ownTie various changes have 
been made with the thought in 
mind of making the Tartan a 
newspaper that would compare bet. ter than favorably with any col
lege publication throughout the 
country. That the day school staff 
lias been successful was demon
strated by. th placement of the 
Tartan among the first three colle
giate publications a short time ago 
by a group that certainly should 
. he.in a position to judge.
: However, the most recent 
! changes, details of which are dis
cussed elsewhere, on this page are 
more important and lar-reaching 
.than any that have heretofore been
 made. The privilege to express 
ditorial opinion as well as tho
; opinions of th night student body 
without any regard to any other 
iestore than goofl. jonrnalisc prac
tice will place the  Cjarnegle Plaid 
n an enviable position. The loca
 tlon of the night school sheet on 
the last page of the Tartan per 
mlts of the use of the entire last
Lpage for nothing hut night school
It "will be realized that the Is
suance of an entire page to the 
Night Staff will entail considerably 
more work. An increase in space 
-Will cause a corresponding in
crease-in the difficulties connected 
with editing the page. Howea reasonable amount of cooperation 
between the Staff, the Night Stu
dent Council, and the student bodywill enable the StafI to edit a page 
. that will really contain all the 
news of the night school, as well 
as"supply a medium for expression 
of views that the night student has 
heretofore
It should be said at this time 
that the previous policies of the 
old Plaid will be carried out by 
this new publication. News will he 
c printed subject only to the censoi 
ship of the editor, and any con 
nmnications that are submitted, a< 
companled by sufficient guarantees 
of good .faitti, will be printed. Con
tributions now attain an im. portance that dwarfs all previous 
' 'standings of these voluntary sub
mittals. Without the cooperation 
of all night groups, as well 
student body, It will be well nigh 
Impossible to present a weekly is
sue that will contain only matters 
' pertinent to the night school. For 
this' reason, it is hoped that there 
will he a renewed interest shown 
by all. concerned in the possibili
ties offered by the Plaid for pub
lication of anything that is of in
terest to night students. If pres- ent plans develop, it will be possible for contributors to submit' - . articles on highly special subjects,' ' .which will be reserved lor publication in.space will be -reserved for
i the Plaid - will he credited to their names . and will add to their tots] of. .points towards the Insignia Award of the-.Night Student Council ior.merilbi'loufl,work in student activities. !; " -In addition to the .. previous : some of thestatuajof tie^plaid, might be well ,tb-.Ti33ark;.,that-;the Staff that hae--^ltea-thtg'iedltionhas not been f^ai^dC.iiavipenuanent The entireVeiti^^includlng the editorship*. the .nfew^ftiirshlp, and positions - f(5rVitiiirVag36cI^ts editors Is still . a'-; metier; for elderation by .aVTvicotlcerned. - pas^n^-.it;ndg^tr^icrapairked .that the-presett editor le by. no means certein'ithat he will continue in thatfcapaclty throughout .the comingiyear..-.I In' .view of the fact that, this sitaation.obtains, it would be well for all students who have.any journalistic ability at all to appear Publication Office on the first floor of 'Industries Building on. Fridi. eveningto discuss the possibility of forming an.'entirely i
The Coming Elections
As this, issue will come into th< hands of only those, students who were' registered at Carnegie .last .year, a. word concerning the
ol'vlate,, due to circumstances, .'especially with regard to the election-ot officers to represent the  student body on Council. This sit.< uatln ls deplorable. It is earnest.; hoped that the )
m students last year . will
'.^idfcnts' to'have any Idear oi the rfeBpectiye candidates' qualities if ' .they, tave not been registered hcrev . Jn;prevIous. years.;. Hence it is.advisable for the old timers" to . out'.for election and make them* B^tves. heird. during the discussion ^vticandidates or issues, so that the! ^ firet year menmay be able '' ^choose, with more conception: of jf, the issues at stake than theyV gather ' from casual conversationV wlth the candidates or from listening to the remarks of an Incidental nature made hy the appointed speakers &t the election
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
To .the' Editor .of the Plaid Page Please consider this contribution my application for a position os columnist oc your 6taff in editing the night page of the Carnehave enjoyed very much.:ertain about the method of procedure In Qualifying for such a place os the paper,' but I am taking tbis occasion of submitting copy for publication.
not presuming too much, I should like to have my material published In conjunction with thetdle Thoughts column from  to time asvc another claimthe column, perhaps, my typing pen could be a successor those who have gone before. At submitting this terlal and. If perchance youIt, I should be pleased and promise you that my effort to have you each week shall be a f annoyance, at least In Its .regularity.
The other day I received a yellow card from tbe registrar's office to the effect that the days of reckoning, that is, tbe days of registration are at hand. October 1, I certainly felt a Blight shock at the closeproximtty-of the approaching time. I realize only too well that my days of recreation -, and that I year of concentrated study. This
it 1D over and have often wanted to insure my hand against wr cramp." By the time the card is completely filled out there isnt much left that you havent told about yourself.
Night School 
Registration 
October 1,2,3
Students Recommended 
To Carefully Study 
Requirements
October 1, 2 and 3 are the dates that have been set for night school registration. All students who
permit to register. New students will follow tbe usual procedure of having their entrance credits exJned and passed upon before permits to register will be issued.
Everyone should make an attempt to lighten tbe labor of the
Night School Bulletin. This table them to expedite tbeir registration, since they will understand beforehand the prerequisites for the courses they desire to take,
Communications addressed to the Registrars office or to tbe department in which the student la registered will be given prompt
will ther< course it is t thing now, hoped that the former i again on thi
 soon to predict any* me will tell, large proportio udente will be back campus all ready to The past buiIneBS year has bei an improvement over the previous one and this condition should result In more students being In a position to continue their studies.
A question which is bothering me right now is. books. What the prospect of securing the tests at reduced rates, that Is which the second hand value predict? One likes to secure bargains and the . night student is ception. However, one is forced to go slow on the question because of the uncertainty of the actual edition and text which tbe instructors have decided to use. 1 It would be a fine idea if, when the penni to register. Is sent out, that a lis of the tests for the particular
Contributors Asked To 
Abid By Rgulations
Contributors who  send 
articles for publication in the Plaid 
should be reminded-that all mate
ria] submitted for publication must 
he .-in. double-spaced typewritten 
form.: Further, a. carbon ' copy of 
the'-article-should be submitted to' 
the ?Nfght Council (n accordance
llcatlbn^ Rpomr'-where : arrangements Trtiiw>.he ;msde to have it typed. r'-X 
Contributions'may be dropped in the Inter-School mall boa in the basement  of the Administration Building, addressed to the Plaid Editor, therebysaving ..postage, :
Balancefrom 1932-23....Activities Fees ..............Council Dances1932-33 Council Dancea-^1933-34Thistle1933-34 /,.........Total Receipts........
Handbooks' ....................Activities1All CollegesCouncil Donees .............Council Expenses .........Plaid1933-34 ................Scholarships ..................Thistle1933-34 .............Thistle1932-33 Balance Total Expenditures Bills to Be Paid
Nigfat'Schoo Re-Exams 
To Be Taken This Week
th dates Mentioned above. taJls'-concernlng the time of < 1 nation in specific subjects m; obtained from the Registra
Resignation of James 
Sansonetti Regretted
tion of the fine work done during the past year by Mr. J. Sansonetti, retiring editor. Mr. Sansonetti has been one of the ly active men on the night campus during his studies at Carnegie, has held many positions in dent organizations during that time. He has the office of president of the Night Student Council, as well os minor offices in that body. His work in student government was of high calibre, and was responsible for many of tbe adHis work on the Plaid, with which he had been connected since its inception, was . characterized by fairness,'sound policy, tention to detail that has enabled the night page to attain an enviable reputation among; night school publications.- The men and women who worked with Mr. Sansonetti (Jimmy to the student body) regret his
FINANCIAL SUMMARY, 1933-34 
Night Student Council
Reorganization Of 
Plaid Announced
EXPENDITURES
840.30 20.00 .. ?3,075.C1
276.77410.0090.00250.0075.00
C. A. Blochinger 
Assumes Duties 
As Council Head
Mr. c. A. Blochinger, the. nev-- 
esident of the Night Student 
Council, has begun to carry on the 
ork of that organization which 
'as so capably guided during the 
past year by Mr, A. J. Lois. Both 
of these men are well known to 
the student body through their un
tiring activity in performance in 
matters relative to council projfir. ' Blochinger in his capacity 
social chairman during the past 
school year conducted one of the 
finest andmost enjoyable seasons 
sponsored by the Night Stu
dent Council. His previous work 
in many student organization posl 
of the same high quality. 
It .is - expected that the varloQB 
projects sponsored by the council 
under his guidance will reflect Id 
their efficiency, the capability ot 
the new president.
The retiring president, Ur. Lois, i*as well known throughout the
i prior to the tim* of his election to his first council iltlon some years ago. His rise, to the presidency of the Night
I the retiring president :
Book Store to be Open 
OnRegistration Nigfits
The attention of the night dents Is called to the-Book Store !n the basement of the Industries Building. This store carries line of all the textbooki equipment required In tbe various courses.. It'is suggested that, the students, when registering, brii sufficient funds to purchase all of necessary supplies' of registration. It this sugActive Students 
Receive Keys At 
Insignia Dinner
The Night Student Council held 
the Insignia presentation dinner 
Haddon Hall on the evening of 
June 22, 1934. A very pleasing din* 
was served and was cnjoyei 
by all who attended. Among the 
invited guests were Dean Mary 
Watson Green and JDean A. W. 
Tarbell and others who have shown 
deep interest in night Echool ac
tivities.
There were a total of forty-eight 
awards tbis year. The highest, 
the tenth, was awarded to Mr. E. 
E. McDonald. Mr. McDonald is tho 
first person to obtain this honor. 
The next highest, the seventh, was 
presented to Mr. J. Sansonetti, who 
was editor of the Plaid during tbe 
past school year. Those obtainin; 
from the first to the sixth award 
wore as follows; J. W. Ackerman, 
R. C. Barker, C. RBrown,  
Drensen, H. Durbin, O. Ehlers, A. 
Hanson, S. Kohs, H. H. Krebs( A LalU, E. Sipler. P. . Sparrow, R. Torek, GW. Vessels, R. Berkenbush, W. Maurer, CRoup, A. W. Bartk, !F. Allen, A. W. Bluemlo,
Beckei,Harris, D. J. Jones, R. W. Lahr, G. McCormick, S. Nikhazy, H. B. Stone, E. F. White, C. A. Blochinger, C. E. Blochinger, A. J. Lois, C. Blscup, F. A. Kolsun, H. E. Meto support night school activities with the same spirit during thl;
interrupted and hurry and bothor avoided. However, if this Is possible, the Book Store will open from 6:15 to 10:00 on every school night from October l to 20, and from (LI5 to 8:45 thereafter.
The committee in charge of the freshman military ball at the T~ vereity of Minnesota plans to tach dance tickets to the necks of flv? white mice which will be leased at strategic points ou campus.
The . night school . page begins a 
3W season with this. issue, with 
some changes made-in-the,makeoj> 
of th ,eheeL Perhaps ' the most 
iportant is the privilege of run
ning-.editorials written' by-. the night school edJtor'onder tHe new masthead. This ihahB that' this under its'new name of The Carnegie Plaid" is now essentially separate newspaper, with its edl* torlal opinion divorced from that  the Ta:II a pa it willider tbe same cover, it is notr possessed of the means for better expressing night student opinion.
ing page three; it will be placed on the last page of the Tartan. This change In position Is advantageous, since it permits of better continuity of articles in the day 6cho,ol section.It Is expected that with this privilege that has been ob*
and indicate tbis Interest by their criticism and contributions. The students have the opportunity t make the Carnegie Plaid as intei
of 1LMany of tbe old features have been retained, and general poliand other matters have not been changed. It is hoped that the tire night' student b-*iy will appre* elate tbe excellent opportunity they now possess to express them selveB, and give tbeir paper tb<
Employment Bureau To 
Assist Night Students
The Bureau of Recommendations, in Administration Hall, Ib prepared to attempt to place &ny night student at present unemployir who desires to obtain, a position more Intimately connected with his studies.is recommended that all students employed during the day
either by phone or personally bureau on Mondays or Thursdays between 6:30 and 8:30 p.-Many students have availed themselves in the pa9l of the services of the Bureau of Recommeu dations and have thereby saved themselves much of the worry tendant to seeking a new position. Further, the recommendations made by this bureau are highly garded by many employers of l
Observance of Parking 
Regulations Necessary
The' night students who drive cars to school are reminded of.the parking difficulties which are normally present' In.the vicinity of Camegfe snd of the' fact tiat theae difficulties will be concentrated in the three, nights of the registration period when parking 9pace will be iu great demand. Due care should be used; at. all timeB, but on these three nights in .particular to be as thoughtful of the: other fellow aspoesible, and avoid taking up
available for all.
Didja Notice
Night Student Council.
ied about my Job.
THAT the old timers we meet are almost unanimously decided
THAT if the textile strike sn't soon settled, we'll have ' these patched
last year, barring some changes that dont affect us much individually.THAT a lot of night students are glad pew that ttfey did spend some time of their spare time absorbing knowledge, ftved cF their jobs.be annoying ya an year, it werre not waylaid or the editor doesnt wise up and
THAT Dad Manson still has the situation well In hand, and it sure looks.good to see him strolling around the halfs as per usual.THAT thats that, and ill be seenya.
STUDENTS
WANTED/e hundred Typewri makes. Portables
aired.lonth.
American Writing 
Machine CompanyB01 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc. 5488 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
Old Timers Ready 
T o Continue W ork|
-The-' Vacation: Is finished. The! 
Indolentnights with no home-work! 
and. no-classes .. to - attendrai 
thing of the past1 Itvwa reat for i 
a while to have no worries about ! 
those troublesome assignments o^| 
nervy racking quizzes, bi ' 
lazy Ufe had begun to grow veryi 
monotonous .during! the iaBt couple! 
of weeks. As the beginning 
school draw's nearer and nearer, | 
th anxiety to get started 
comes intense.The march toward a belter edu-l cation will begin in a very short S time with, it Is hoped, renewed! strength and vigor. All those whol were in the ranks in egob;w previoust years and, also, those new stu-L dents who will join tbe rankB iof 'the coming year are marking timel and waiting for the signal to move,! The way iuay'become difficult andl? tbe goal obscure during the Btreesjl of school term but now, after ag restful vacation, there should beg no hesitancy about the coming!
The returning students who regJ Ister for the approaching sessions g are to be congratulated on their K, endeavors to better tbemselve^e and are heartily welcomed back tog Carnegie. For those, who, through | untoward circumstances are forced 1 to discontinue their studies, there | is always the hope that another g year will bring a betterment tbeir position. The number those who cannot return should tofj greatly reduced this term as gener-Jj al conditions are undoubtedly ini-1 proved and are steadily showing! further improvement. IIt Is hoped that tbe results of.tliel coming year will justify tbe industry snd ambition of the students K who carry on with their studlesj| and thus manifest Iheir deBire t better themselves.__________
10% Discount With 
this adv. Only
REMEMBER
Us When You Are 
Keady To Buy
OAKLAND SHIRT SHOP
Collegemens Shop
Personal Service .
Freshman
Regulations
Black Ties..........55c
Black Sox, 4 for $1.00
Visit the - - -
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 Forbes Street - -. Louis Gordon Ph. G. - Prop.
For Your Drug Needs and School Supplies 
TRY OUR LUNCHEONETTE
Registrar Predicts 5 % 
Enrollment Increase I
has fallen off noticeably.If the five por cent increase--is realized this year, the total of this
taltratfonin 1932.
A.formula-has been dcvelopd by
possibleto predict how tallo chilA Sure Foundation
fjaineial - independence savings account. Systematic Saving, begun while you are In college, will pave the way, for a successful future.
' Our Savings Accounts pay liberal Interest compounded semi-annually. . -
Staff Positions 
Open to Students
by! night' students who ested in Journalistic work, and who desirous of becoming a
become a candidatefor one of thepositions.- The choice of the men or women who will be picked for the. places rests with the Plaid Editor, and attnhat is necessary to get started In the work will be to report at the Publication Room on the first floor of the Industries Building between eight and nine oclock any Friday evening in the
Are You Dull, Badly Dressed, Slip* 
 pfng Sodalty? You Need These 
Amazing Nnv Fun>TiBatments! 
# Hundreds of men, formerly doomed to. unwilling..virtu, are now brUliant ra con cars, gouno ts, bon viveur*, beaux, and irresistible to women.You, too, can become a dazzling cotillion leader this easy new way! Get in the Sodal Register! Get in the Brain Trust! - Get in the money! Thanks to EsQtJmB, even most hopeless cases, of dullness, provinidalism, mental.ioactiv* ity,insuffidcnt Belly-laughs, now quickly aired. Improvement begins with first
the. paee today. Not for th
qualities of both the Decam* on and the Decalogue.It is an amazing fact about putlbDD that the lesa you need ila treatment .the more you like it. Try it today and see.
i&Q.ULlK.L. miMttilniirirsiiiM
AT. AIL THE Better NETS8TAND9
' .. just about c\ciy ciuic.nc smoker koowb 
thatbut here are some other facts to keep in mind . . .
For a cigarette to be milder ad tost, better n must be 
made of mild, ripe Turkish .tnd homi-gro*n tobaccos.
We wish you could go into tbe factor:^ and stt 
Chesterfield made, Tbt. t/~ r*pc r> cut **;
long even threadst/jLU pu\iUd iuto tbt cigarette so 
as to make Cbesterjiekl draw Tight and hum 111 m/j.
A good cigarette can give you i lot ot plca&ure, and we 
would like for you to tiy Chesterfield.
ie ciqarette thats MILDER 
i'e cigarette that
TASTES BETTER
6 UHiliootT ft Unu Toucco C4 -
-7, >-
