*fSB U,
OUR SLOGAN 
BEAT PITT
VOL. XIII. NO. 6.CUhr dari an
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
M. MC. S. HAS
ONEON US
BE ABOOSTER
MAR. 5, 1919
TECH LOSES TO PENN 
STATE IN FAST GAME
Techs basket ball team met defeat 
at the hands of the speedy Penn 
State team last Thursday night by 
the score of 57 to 26. Despite the 
size of the score the game was fast 
and furious throughout. Tech was 
handicapped greatly by the loss of 
Gretzler, the star center, who was 
forced to retire early in the game with 
a badly sprained ankle. Up to the 
time of Gretzlers injury the game 
was nip-and-tuck, with the score 
about even, but from then on Techs 
team-work suffered from the loss.
Wolfe and Mullin played exception
ally well for State, while Lynn star
red for Tech. The line-up:
Tech26. State57.
Abrams ...................G. ..................... Wolfe
Hamman ................F......................... Muilin
Gretzler ................C.................. Replogle
Lynn ................... r. G.................... Wilson
Carey ........................G.................. Killinger
SubstitutionsGoode for Gretzler. 
Field goalsWolfe, Abrams, Ham
man. Foul  goalsWolfe, Abrams, 
Lynn.
A large crowd attended the game, 
and lots of pep was displayed by the 
rooters. Cheers were led by Cheer
leader Stark, the fair sex doing their 
share nobly. Abrams had an offnight in foul-shooting, but Lynn re
sponded well with his share.
States team .work was well baF 
anced, and the players were clean 
sportsmen.
The management held a free jazzafter the game. This was enjoyed by 
all who remained.. Music by Barrow. 
Were showing the old pep now; let 
everyone turn out to see Pitt bow to 
Tech this Friday night.
M. M. SOPHS GIVE
FROSH A ROUND
DR. BAKER ARRIVES
Dr. Baker, the new secretary for 
this school, has arrived and assumed 
his duties. For years he has been 
intimately associated with his stu
dents. and said lie would be lonesome 
indeed, if he were entirely separated 
from the student body.
Courtesy Gazette Times.
DR. BAKER
Owing to the fact that several of 
his former students were from the 
Pittsburgh district, he has many 
friends in the community, and was 
very favorably impressed by the wel
come he received at the institute.
He is a member of the Beta Theta 
Pi and Phi Beta Kappa fraternities. 
Another big man in Carnegie Insti
tue of Technology!
Science and Design Freshmen are 
not the only unruly beings strolling 
about the Tech Campus these days. 
The Verdant Class of M. M. C. S. is 
causing trouble in that school Just 
now. One Margaret Morrison Fresh
man attempted to hold a conversation 
_on the Campus with a member of the 
Forbidden Sex. Had she chosen the 
site about the Industry or Science 
Buildings for her dialogue, no one 
mighe have been any the wiser (?). 
But she was foolish enough to stand 
directly in front of the Margaret Mor
rison Building. As a punishment she 
had the unusual experience of walk
ing for half an hour in front of that 
building attempting to sell some ar
ticles from a Cray strapped about her 
neck. The passers-by sympathized 
with her, but what could they do with 
three or four burly Sophomores stand
ing guard? Rumor has it that this is 
mild punishment compared to whafe 
will come if the Freshmen do not ad
here a little more strictly to the rules 
and regulations laid down for their 
benefit. Further notice of these little 
S'ophomore-Fresliman meetings will 
appear in subsequent issues of The 
Tartan.
COL. BROOKS SPEAKS 
TO SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
NOTE OF THANKS GIVEN 
CARNEGIE TECH
The New Yrk War Camp Community 
Service for the War Department 
and Navy Department Commissions 
On Training Camp Activities.
15 East Fortieth Street,
New York City.
February 26, 1910. 
Dr. A. A. I-Iamerchlag, Pres.
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh. Pa.
Dear Sir: 
It was exceedingly gratifying to find 
the educational institutions of the 
country so splendidly prepared to 
meet the urgent needs of the returned 
soldiers and sailors.
The Committee of the Seven War 
Work Agencies felt that it was partly 
the task of the universities and col
leges of the country to take account of 
the great changes the war has wrought 
in the lives of our Boys. It was for 
such institutions to take cognizance of 
the ambitions and aspirations which 
fill the hearts of our Boys who are no 
longer content to resume former occu
pations.
Nothing cou'ld have created such a 
bond of sympathy between the Ameri
can youth and the educational institu
tions as this splendid and prompt re
sponse in meeting the urgent require
ments of our Boyc and by the oppor
tunities offered them to hold on to the 
great value gained by the war experi
ences.
Permit us, therefore, to assure you 
of our highest esteem and sincere ap
preciation of the contribution you 
have made toward the educational 
guidance of these men. We trust they 
may count on your further support.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) ARTHUR A. ZUIAN.
Director, Bureau of Statistics.
AN EXPLANATION
The delay concerning the music at 
the Junior Promenade of the Science 
School is in no way the fault of Mr. 
J. L. Dougherty, whose orchestra was 
supposed to have played. An investi
gation which immediately followed 
the promenade showed that it. was 
wholly due to a misunderstanding on 
the part of the committee who as
sumes the responsibility for the mis
hap.
The committee wishes to extend j 
theirheartiest thanks to Mr. W. R. j 
Howell, Mr. J. R. Barrow, Mr. M.1 
Arom and Theta XI Fraternity for 
help and kind assistance in solving 
the music problem until an orchestra 
could be obtained.
(Signed.)
THE COMMITTEE.
At the Science Assembly, Wednes
day, Science students heard more of 
our comprehensive military program. 
Colonel Brooks outlined the course, as 
at present contemplated. Dean Mott 
explained the situation in regard to 
smoking and reading rooms in Science 
Building.
A plan is _at present under advise
ment by which a technical library will 
be established in the School of Applied 
Science. This library will be under 
the supervision of the Carnegie Li
brary. It will be equipped with the 
usual card index systems and have im
proved lending facilities. Also provi
sion will be made as soon as possible 
fora students club room. Because of 
the condition of the furniture this club 
room was closed last spring upon the , 
request of the committee on club | 
rooms.
Mr. J. C. Sanders, a former student 
of the School of Applied Science, class 
of 1916, spoke on some of the accom
plishments of the Chemical Warfare 
Service. As a lieutenant in the army 
he did research work at Harvard Uni
versity 'in anendeavor to discover a 
satisfactory method for manufacturng large quantities of the deadly 
gases used in warfare.
These gases were difficult to manu
facture, as in some cases we knew 
nothing at all of them'. Chlorine, 
Phosgene, Tar Gas and Mustard 
Gas, were the gases used by the Ger
mans. Mustard Gas was the most 
successful on the battlefield, but the 
American chemists were unable at 
first to devise a method for manufac
turing it. One of the raw materials 
necessary was a by-product in the dyestuff industry, and our chemists were 
at loss to devise a method for its pro
duction. As a result of the efforts of 
members of Chemical Y/arfare Service 
who were stationed at various univer
sities throughout the country, a methEXCEPTIONAL YEAR FOR 
THE REVIVAL OF TENNIS
Looks like a good tennis season. 
With school on until July, at least, and 
with new courts going up on the 
campus, and with the same conditions 
existing in the schools, excepting, per
haps, the new courts, tennis should 
become a major attraction this year. 
Many men are back who are masters 
with the bat and there is a largo 
amount of new material in the fresh
man class of which we know nothing.
Looks like a good tennis season.
TO HONUS WAGNER
(Honus Wagner, considered by 
many to be the greatest all-around 
ball player that ever lived, has been 
appointed physical instructor at Car
negie Tech Institute.News Item). 
Dear Honus: We note with much
pleasure
That youVe signed with the Car
negie Tech 
To dpv'elop the physical measure
Of many a physical wreck. .
Youll find this new job to your liking,
And for you they are certain to fall 
For there always was something so 
striking
In the way that you struck at a ball!
The young man who follows your 
teaching
Will surely improvehis physique, 
Though he cant be your equal at 
. reaching
And cufling the ball on the beak! 
Yes, the skill at which everyone won
dered
You can teach t.o others, by heck! 
For the technique of hitting Three 
Hundred
You will teach at the Carnegie 
Tech!. )
(With apologies to the Philadel
phia Evening Bulletin.)
SENIOR MECHANICALS 
MAKE INSPECTION TOUR
On Friday, February 21, 19.19, the 
Senior Mechanicals, under direction 
of Professors Trinks and Estep, went 
to Cleveland, O., to the plant of the 
McKinney Steel Company to run a co
operative test between the Mesta 
Machine Company and the McKinney 
Steel Company at the hitters plant. 
The last of the group arrived at their 
headquarters, the Qlmstead Hotel, 
about 8 p. in. They were immediately 
given instructions as to the program 
of work, as it was outlined for the fol
lowing day, and told to report for 
work at 7:30 a. m. the next,morning.
Saturday morning the group wont, 
out to the plant, -which is icated in 
Fairfield, and spent; the greater part 
of the day setting up apparatus and 
Inspecting apparatus already in place. 
Also, there were several gauges to 
calibrate. At noon four of the men 
were, sent back to headquarters to 
rest up, so as to be able to work the 
night shift, while the remainder run 
(Continued on Page Three.)
IECH PLAYS PITTJRIDAY NIGHT
Game Will Be Last oY the YearCoach Bianchi Getting 
His Men in Shape
Tech wallops Pitt. This is the heading you all want to see in 
next week's Tartan, so be sure and see the game Friday night.
With the State game past history, our team is preparing for their 
Hist and biggest game oil the year, with Pitt. The Panther team
lias been going great guns the last; week and are iu fine shape .tor our
game, which they expect to win by a large score.
Their reason for this is ol; their win over us early in the year, 
but since that game our team lias greatly improved.
The old Tech jinx seems to still be with us though as Captain 
Gretzler will not be able to play Friday night. In the State game 
lie had his ankle so badly twisted that all the ligaments are torn
? and it was necessary to take him to 
1 the hospital. Gretz will be greatly 
missed, as he has been playing a fine 
game at. center all year and always 
gets the jump on his man.
When lie was taken out of the game, 
Thursday night, our team seemed" to
IMPORTANT MEETING OF 
SCIENCE SENATE IS HELD
DONT FAIL TO ATTEND THIS HOIE GAME
Friday, March 7thPitt
Ask her now!Dance after the game!
On Thursday afternoon, the Senate 
of the Science School met to discuss 
plans for proper club room facilities 
in the Science School. It is feared 
that it will not bo possible to have the 
departmental club rooms and also the 
large club room. If possible, the Sen
ate will endeavor to have both avail
able, but in case there is only a choice 
in the matter, the Senate favors a 
club room available for all students. 
No recreation room of any sort is at 
present available to the freshmen and 
the majority of upper classmen.
The matter of a pep meeting, next. 
Wednesday, was discussed. It was de
cided to have heads of the various ac
tivities present and have a Carnegie 
Tech "patriotic meeting. The pur
pose of the assembly will be to ac
quaint the new students with what 
Tech is doing along athletic lines and 
to encourage more active participation 
in these activities.
Men's Club Rooms,
We hoar much discussion over the 
club rooms in the various schools. At.
) present 110 recreational facilities are 
I offered In Sclence-Sdiuol. Only one 
or two departmental club rooms are 
available. Proper recreational facili
ties are necessary, for It is Imperative 
that all vhe students have the proper 
attitude toward the school. A proper 
attitude can not bo fostered If our 
only social center is a radiator.
Tills, year something has happened 
to the Union, a beautiful room, artis
tically furnished and most centrally 
located, in respect to the throe schools 
of men, Yet when one wants to make 
uso of its facilities, one finds I he 
chairs piled in the corner, rugs rolled 
J* I up, and about half tlio requisite x\ amount of heal. In the room. Its Cune.* 
j* (ton as a school ball room need not l><- X\ altered, but after the week-end dances 
 It would be very easy to restore it to 
I j its normal condition.
Last year tin* Union was always In 
condition for use during the week. 
Dances were held in the Union last 
year, but It became a club room again 
011 Monday morning
(Signed) A CONTRIBUTOR.
team seemed" to 
go to pieces, as Carey had to be 
shifted to center, and this broke up 
the team work.
It. is not known who Coach Bianchi 
will start in the game with the 
Panthers, but every effort will be 
made to keep Carey at guard and get 
Foxen up in his studies and play him 
at center. Foxen has been handicapped 
since the early part of the season with 
a bad knee, but is all right again and 
can be counted upon to put up a first 
class game.
The crowd at the State game was 
one of the largest that ever packed 
the Gym, and a larger one can be 
counted 011 for Friday night, as Pitt 
students will be out in full force.
This is the last game of the season, 
so every loyal Tech man should come 
out. and root and show the team we 
are back of them. There Is to bo a 
dance in the Union after the game, so 
bring your gal.
CAPTAIN A. H. MGILL 
OF TECH ALUMNI OIES
SOLDIER INSIGNIA CAROS 
TO OE DISTRIBUTED
After Americas entry into the war 
every one became interested in know
ing the various insignia of the differ
ent corps of the army and the dis
tinguishing marks of the officers and 
men of the army and navy.
Now that the war is over and the 
boys are coming home with all the dif
ferent kinds of service insignia, it is 
to our interest to be able to under
stand their meaning. If we see
man with a green shamrock or a large 
od was devised, which, with knowlblack A on his-arm, do we know
Only that is education which 
teaches us to work as God works, 
true to the line, every stroke.Wil
liam Hawley Smith..
DO YOU THINK SO?
Who said M. M. C. S. had lost its 
pep? Booster week surely blossomed 
forth at the Penn State basket ball 
game in Thursday last, and a larger 
and more commodious gym would 
have been very much appreciated by 
the M. M. spectators. The dormitory 
girls were much in evidence, and 
showed their interest and enjoyment. 
They gave vent to their feelings in 
(Continued on Pace Three.)
edge already obtained from French 
chemists, was satisfactory for the pro 
duction of small quantities of the 
liquid which, when properly atomized, 
is called Mustard Gas.
In June, 1918, work was started on 
a plant for the production of mustard 
gas as JEdgewood, Maryland. In Au
gust, 191S, the reactors started to work, 
By November, after encountering in
numerable difficulties, the production 
in this plant alone had reached fifty 
tons a day. -This was about one and 
two-thirds as much as that manufac
tured in all Europe. A real triumph, 
for the American chemist who, before 
the war, was considered so much in
ferior to the European chemist!
Mr. Saunders also outlined the de
velopment of the gas mask. Altogether 
it was a very satisfactory assembly.
v TWIST THAT PANTHER'S TAIL*
what division he belonged to? Can we 
recognize a man from Pennsylvanias 
own 'Twenty-eighth division? What 
is the significance of one' of the multi
colored bars worn over the left 
pocket? Such things as this every one 
should know, and if you do not know 
them, then it is your'privilege to learn. 
Knowledge of this sort is often very 
useful to a person, and even more so 
at the present time.
If you will call at the Postoffice in 
the Central Building, or at the Regis
trars office, you will be given a circu
lar put out by the Pittsburgh Gazette 
Times, which illustrates the marks 
which dsignate our fighters rank, 
service and special duties. Do not 
overlook this, but be sure to get the 
sheet and learn the contents.
Beware of the beginnings of vice.
Do not delude yourself with the be
lief that it can be argued against in 
the presence of the existing cause.
Nothing but actual flight can savej tion that JUSTICE had at last had its 
you.B. R. Havdon. i sway.
SOUTH DORMS AGAIN 
JAZZ UP FRESHMEN
The governing board of the' South 
Dormitory sat in session 011 Thursday 
night, to decide the cases of several 
unruly freshmen, and needless to say, 
the decisions were quick and just. 
Ace Avery was the presiding judge; 
and the jury, fair and impartial, con
sisted of upper classmen from the 
East and Soutli dormitories.
Exactly one hour after the State 
College game was over, the first case 
was brought before the judge. Owing 
to the absence of the defendants at
torney, said defendant had to conduct 
his own case. In the face of over
whelming evidence the jury could not 
but pass the verdict Guilty! The 
sentence was given and immediately 
executed.
Several other cases were disposed 
of in a similar manner. Although in 
a few cases the verdicts were -not 
guilty, two of the proverbial hair 
brushes wore completely demolished, 
and a third, reinforced and watercooled, came out badly nicked.
. The monotony (?) of tlie evening 
was relieved by a solo rendered by a 
backwoods caruso who happened to be 
one of the defendants.
A few of the cases treated showed 
that they needed the open-air treatj 
ment, and so, on some fine afternoon, 
do not be surprised if you will see the 
dusty stocks brought, to light again, 
after lying dormant for over a year.
The court adjourned after all were 
tried, and everybody had the satisfacTHE PROM IS OVER
The big dance is over, but it is not 
lorgotten. Nor will it be for some 
time to come. It was a success be
yond doubt, but it would be useless 
to characterize it as the best one ever 
held at. Tech, because they are all 
called the best.. But rather, it may 
be described as the oddest one ever 
held anywhere. Oh, boy! Thirty 
scheduled dances and some half 
dozen extras. It was glorious. The 
Twentieth Century Club was just 
large enough to accommodate the 
crowd assembled. It was neatly, but 
not lavishly decorated. The dining 
room was draped with blue, and the
The sad news that Captain Arthur 
II. McGill had died iu France was re
ceived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. 
10. 10. McGill, of Sheridan avenue, Feb
ruary 21, the messago coming from 
the War Department, The death of 
the young man was caused by pneu
monia. The message to Ills parents 
read as follows:
We regret to Inform you that. It. Is 
olllolally reported that Captain Ar
thur McGill, of the field artillery, died 
from pneumonia February II. 
Signed,
ADJUTANT GENERAL.
Word of Captain McGills death 
brings deep sorrow to all New Castle, 
an be was one of the city's finest ex
amples of patriotism, a young man of 
great promlso and of the highest char
acter.
Two years ago last July, the sum
mer before America declared war, he 
attended tlio Plattsburg Training 
Camp. Unwilling to wait until tlio 
formal declaration of war had been 
made, he enlisted in March, 1917, and 
was called to Fort Niagara for train
ing. Wlille Camp Meade was In the 
making I10 was called there as an in
structor in artillery, and later went 
to Fort Sill, Okla. He then was re
called to Camp Meade, and shortly 
afterward was sent to France, ahead 
of his division. Captain McGill was 
commander of Battery A, of the 311tli 
Field Artillery. His record as a sol
dier was a noteworthy one, and I10 was 
recognized as an officer of the highest 
ability, a successful commander of 
men, and one who asked nothing of 
them that he would not set them an 
example in doing.
In spite of his long service, he had
class numerals-20were conspicu-l bfiGn fortunato 5,1 having escaped seri
ously placed around the walls. The 
orchestra was a little late . arriving, 
and, in the meantime the committee 
got in touch with Theta XI, and bor
rowed Barrows Jazz Orchestra, and 
had some jazz to pasg away the time.
About 10:30 the Big Dance was on, 
and from then until the last waltz 
was finished, everybody had-a grand 
and glorious time.
Many of the pieces played are just 
now beginning to be played in Pitts
burgh, having made a good run in 
New York. Sand Dunes was a 
favorite, as was also Oriental 
Echoes. The moonlight effect was 
well executed, and gave variety and 
charm to the dances.
All who were there surely were well 
satisfied and unite in pronouncing it. 
a success,
SEE YOU AT THE GAME
ous wounds and the news of his death 
comes as a severe shock to family and 
friends.
Captain McGill was married in June 
last year to Miss Ermal Pruyn, who 
survives him. He sailed for France 
shortly after his marriage.
Arthur T-I. McGill was a graduate of 
the local high school and of Carnegie 
Tech. 1-Ie had been with the Edgar 
Thompson Steel Company for about 
three years, being located in Pitts
burgh and vicinity, and was fast win
ning a place as a rising young busi
ness man. He was 26 years old last 
June.
Besides his parents, Mr. and Mrs. 
E. E. McGill, he Is survived by Ills 
wife, by one brother, Paul, who is in 
France with the 23rd Engineers, and 
one sister, Martha, at. home.From 
the New Castle Herald,
Mrs. McGill graduated from the M. 
M. C. S. In 1917. Sire was very active 
in all school activities, being president 
oJLthe Student Self Government Asso
ciation during her Senior year.
PITT VS. TECH FRIDAY EVENING

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDA"'RUARY 26
PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 5", Ifftff
artan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Entered In the postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
7hi year $ J .00
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
f>c the copyCanada, $1.25
Editor-In-Chief ................................................................................ Terrence Allsworth
Phono, Hazel 0425.
Business Manager .................................................................. Henry F. Schcctz, Jr.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editors.
F. I. Smith.
J. R. Rudisill.
Asolatant Editors.
A. C. May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. C. S.................Margaret Sondheim
Science  ......................... K. K. Knaell
Industries ...............................II. W. Lynn
Design ...................................... C. T. Miller
Night ...................,.................Julius Foster
TARTAN OFF!
Athletic Editor 
W. J. Ravenscroft 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaeffer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistant Business Manager 
Advertising Manager 
W.F. Kelley 
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
.Room 162, Design
The Edilor-in-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items ...ust be in the student postollice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays. . 28
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
One, two, three, fourleft, left," left, 
right, leftetc., ad infinitum, for so Jong a familiar tune 
at Tech, has gone! Hooray! Let us hope that the dying echoes ol! 
this steady left, left-right, leftamid the drumming monotony of; 
marching feet has gone to stay. Thinking as we please, we have cast 
aside as worthless the united opinion of our countrys greatest 
minds, we have resolved in our own hearts that military drill in 
connection with'the engineering courses at Tech is not only useless, 
but ini possible.
.Above is expressed briefly, the optimistic view of some of the 
undergraduates at Tech. They argue that military training and 
scholastic work can not go hand in hand. They say that after two 
years of trial, it has been demonstrated beyond question of a doubt 
that military drill interferes with school work.
There is too much truth in the above argument, to pass it by 
unnoticed, but certainly not enough to discredit all planp toward 
making this an It. O. T. ('. school. True, due to the exigencies of 
school work, necessitated by such a short term, it would be difficult 
to crowd, much more into the students day.
But what about exercise? Are we going to let our bodies run 
down for lack of training? An active body and an activ mind are 
the same and inseparable, one dependent on the other, and neither 
100 per cent efficient if the other is below par. AVe must give our 
body culture if we are to keep it healthy the same as we must cul
tivate and develop our minds.
The .judgment of Hie United Stales most noted leaders, the 
opinion of doctors and of. people who have had experience enough 
In know, all agree that some form of physical training is necessary. 
But what is that form to he? Will it be gym, calisthenics or some 
form of drill ?
Some favor gym. Many favor calisthenics because of the ease 
with which it could In* put into action and I lie fact that it takes no 
overexertion for a long period as gym work is so liable to do.
YVIiat is best for us? That is hard to tell. Let us not he ob
stinate. Think it over. Keach some decision. liemember that all 
evidence and even student judgment itself, favors some form of com
pulsory exercise.
Any student that is honest with himself will admit that a cer
tain amount of driving is necessary to force him to take any regu
lar exercise. True it is hard lo be driven and then cherish the power 
that compels. But mistaking the whisper of temptation for the call 
of better judgment we have set ourselves averse to any and all mili
tary education, and concluded we shall not have any, and refuse 
to look into the good points of any system.
Think for yourselves, but remember the administration is solicit
ous of your welfare, at the same time remembering its duties to good 
old Uncle Sam. But let us hope that squads right, squads left and 
left front into line at Tech went down with Germany. We can stand 
the books.
A BOOSTER?
Can you beat it? Look what M. M. C. S. has done: A booster 
meeting and all. This is a splendid exemplification of what a school 
can do if it has the pep. The M. M. C. S. giris have the pep. 
If you were at the; Penn State game you would have to admit it as 
they turned out in a body. And speaking of pep they had it. Fine 
work. It sets an example that some of the other schools may do well 
to follow.
A little of the old time Tech spirit is being revived, and the place 
is beginning to look more like home, If the other schools follow 
suit, there will bo no question as to Techs spirit on Friday night.
EXAMINATIONS
Boo-hoo. I don't wanna go home1. It happens every year 
here. It has happened every year and will continue to happen in the 
future. As long as men lit ted for doctors are trying to he engineers 
it will continue to happen and as long as human nature remains un
changed it will be the same.
Life here at Tech is a game of the survival of the fittest. Only 
those fitted can weather the stormso prepare. Get every days as
signment. Get every lesson every day, then when the examinations 
are over, you will be whistling and not packing a suit ease getting 
ready to go back home.
Concentrate. When you sit down to study, do it with all of your 
might and main. Think only of the subject at hand and not of the 
girl you had at the show the night before or surely you will be one 
of the 50 per cent missing on next years rolls.
Oh! Im tired! Oh! Im sleepy! Guess Ill go to bed. Iti 
sounds nice and it is nice in some ways, but it is dangerous to your' 
chances of staying at Tech, so be sure and get tomorrows lesson to-1 
day. Do not procrastinate. It is as subtle and as dangerous as a lack I 
of proper concentration.
Tech is overcrowded, especially the freshman class. The nnm-1 
her of students must undoubtedly be reduced and it seems that the I 
most satisfactory way of making this reduction will be to raise the 
standards of the coming examinations. It will be a case of the sur
vival ,o the fittest and the freshmen should be especially careful.
Do not make the mistake of cramming for a week before exam
inations. -Every year men have had to leave the dear old Institute 
because they thought they could learn all about chemistry or descrip
tive geometry in a few evenings. A man who depends upon passing 
his examinations by such cramming inevitably studies later into the 
morning than is good for him. As a result, when the examination 
days come he is nervous, he has tried to assimilate so much in a 
short time that all his ideas are confused, his thoughts vanish into 
Hi in air, and in desperation he either gives up entirely or else writes 
most ridiculous answers. Plenty of sleep and some recreation are 
absolutely necessary.
Buckle down now and prepare yourself to hit those exams and 
iiit them hard. Dont give in to foolish distractions. Dont get the 
idea that you werent built for descript or math or something 
else. Hard work will overcome any obstacle.
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
EAST DORM
A FRESHMAN BANQUET
Well, Freshmen, how about a banquet? It has been the custom 
for years and is a tradition well worth following. A word to the wise 
is sufficient, hence Mr. President of the Freshman class, do not get up 
and start boasting about a banquet at the William Penn at $3.00 
per plate and twenty-five cents extra for a program else that night 
you may sleep in Sophomore chains. Use a little horse sense. Do 
not conduct your class meetings like the introduction of a comic 
opera or a prize fight. Use Roberts rules of order. If you cant 
understand them, the Science Senate will send some one to do it for 
you. Arrange your banquet, keep it secret and you may have some 
success. As to the William Penn, have some sens?.
Official Announcement
FIFTH AVENUE AND WOOD STREET 
Entire Second Floor
A FRATERNITY HOUSE:If any fraternity at the Institute is 
in the market for a house, information concerning one which is lo
cated on Forbes Street near Wightman can be secured at the office 
of the Dean of Men.
WHY AM I HAPPY?
Yon made me what I am todaycause you 
bought your duds from me. Ask him who knows 
bout Morrys Clothes. Theta, Cmup yourself and 
see.
Attention is called to the fact that a circular notice may be had 
at the post office in the Central Building or at the Registrars office, 
giving the meaning of the various insignia worn by overseas men.
FROM THE PRESIDENTS OFFICE
The R. O. T. C. At the University of Pennsylvania.
 Wt* must not take too seriously the somewhat pessimistic views 
which undergraduates are'presenting in The-.Pennsylvanian re
garding the wisdom and practicability of re-establishing a unit of the 
Reserve Officers Training Corps at Pennsylvania. It was obvious 
within a few days after the signing of the armistice that there Would 
be no great enthusiasm for military training on the part of the young 
men who had had a surfeit of it in the S. A. T. C., the cantonments 
or on the battlefields of France. However, there was and still is 
evident a very pronounced need for military training among college 
students here and*elsewhere. It was for this reason that the provost 
and board of trustees petitioned the War Department to establish an 
R. 0. T. C. unit here. The facts 'which must be faced are that the 
War Department has officially awarded such a unit to Pennsylvania 
and has detailed Major Charles T. Griffith to remain here in the ca
pacity of professor of military science and tactics. With the unit 
asked for and given it must be properly supported.
What seems to be the chief objection college students in all sec
tions of the country are making to continued training is that it is not 
necessary at present, and that students now at the University are 
anxious to devote all their time to their studies and other activities 
of normal times. They seem to feel that when the government makes 
up its mind on some uniform program of military training for all 
young men, in college and outside of it, or when the Peace Conference 
has established the need or uselessness of armies and navies, if that is: 
achieved, there will be plenty of time for the colleges to add military 
training to the curriculum.
. Perhaps this is human nature, but we should feel deep regret 
if at Pennsylvania this rather pointless controversy should result, as 
it probably will, in dissuading many of the.younger classmen from 
joining the K. 0. T. C. and thus depriving them of the benefits the 
course certainly otters them. Let it 'be granted that the men who 
have seen active service, or those who have passed through severe 
training at the cantonments or elsewhere, do not need this course. 
There are still plenty of first and second-year students who will be 
benefited by it, and the influence of the upper classmen should be 
exerted to see that they do take it. Furthermore, it must never be 
forgotten that much of the blood and treasure sacrificed in this war 
could have been saved through proper preparedness, which is what 
the R. 0. T. C. teaches from first to last. Finally, as Provost Smith 
says, if those of our boys who have given their lives could speak their 
minds today their message would be delivered in clarion tones to 
carry on.The Pennsylvania Gazette. .
M. M. C. S. FRESHMEN CONDUCT Y.W.C. A. MEET
One of the best Y. W. C. A. meetings ' 
of the year was held Thursday, Feb-1 
ruary 27. The Freshmen conducted 
the meeting and deserve much credit 
for their splendid results. The pro
gram, although short, was so interest
ing as to bring out the largest attend
ance the club has had this year.
The meeting was presided over by 
Ruth Anne Anderson. A very inter
esting talk was that given by Gladys 
Ramsay. She took as her subject, 
College Life as Seen Through the 
Eyes of a Freshman. This ployed 
especially enlightening to the Upper
classmen, who soon learned just How 
the Freshmen have felt during this 
their first year of college life. It was 
discovered that the Freshmen have
been especially confused while the 
many changes, necessitated by the 
close of the war, were being made. 
The Junior and Seniors are consider
ing some plan whereby they can act 
on Miss Ramsays suggestion and be
come better acquainted with the 
Freshman Class as individuals. It ap
pears that the Freshmen feel that 
they know the Sophomores sufficiently 
to carry them through the remainder 
of the year, and are now desirous of 
making new and firmer acquaintances.
The meeting closed with a reading 
by Gladys Bogue. Dorothy Mong act
ed as accompanist for the singing of 
the songs.
It is hoped that all those Freshmen 
present will continue coming to the 
meetings and that in the near future 
they will again consent to take charge 
of a meeting. The merits of their 
first venture wifi surely double the at
tendance next time.
Big Style 
Show
EAST DORM, WEDNESDAY, 3:30 P. M. 
MORRY HIMSELF will be there to show you 
his wonderful Spring Styles.
There will lie nothing sold, so dont be afraid 
to come up and look me over.
HAVE A SMOKE*A N YIIO W
SKIBO INN
CigarsE ATS
a n d------Candies
BOWLING 8 BILLIARDS
OAKLAND 
JOSEPH H. KENNY
Strand Building--Forbes and Roquet Streets
Young IVien9s Suits
THE WORLD-FAMED
HART SCHAFFNEfe & MARX
' HIGH GRADE NEW SPRING SUITS
Made up from surplus wool fabrics, Hart Schaffner & Marx had on 
hand. All the LATEST Spring models (featured at savings of $5 to 
$10) in these two Special ________ _Lots..................... ....................$29.50 & $39.50
Mens Store Fourth Floor
mn
Fifth, Smithiield and Diamond Streets
OURSSLGAN OGABESB T PIV .XV6C IP FH FH YH CH
-----------------
Get busy, girls; heres a cliance to  
write some words for a snappy tune 
write your own music, if you wish to; 
you have until March 17 to write a ; 
song for your class, a song that will . 
have lots of-snap to it, a song that 
you will hum to yourself and will yell I
when you go to these class basket ball 
games. We want songs that can be. 
handed down to the following classes^ 
and be learned each year by new fresh
men, and we want them by March 17. 
On that day there will be a general as
sembly and each class will have a. 
chance to sing its class song for every
one else.
Get together, a bunch of you, and 
see that your class gets the most ap
plause at that assembly. Prizes will 
be offered later for the best songs.

---------------------------------------------------

If this advertisement 
were a mile square, 
jammed with words
Jt wouldnt beit couldnt behalf so.. convincing as smoking a Murad.
Fjudge Jbrtpwu^-'
LfaMUuAadT J 
h unmaAw30(bdt ,%$
REMEMBERThere arr. no other 
hhc Murad.
cents
WEDNESDAY. MARCH 5, 1919
PAGE THREEf
! BOOSTER ASSEMBLY HELD OVER IN M. M. C. S.
OKEHARROWiArmVif
YGUU,M
CLUETT. PEABOYti Coi fac %/fCakers
'TTieNEW
SlDUSMSMSMSMMSMSMSMSMSMS/SMSiiy
BELLEFIELD SHOE 
REPAIRING
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library.
High class work done while you 
wait.
I. SCHWARTZ 
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
j|Dllllll!lllillllllilllIll!!!i!llilll!lllll!!!II!1!illlllllllll!llll!
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts. |
Phones 1603160 Schenley g
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH  
STUDENTS
Siiiii!iiiiiimnniiiiniiiiiiimniBBHniiqBiiniiHiiiiii:i!ii!iii!:iiiniiiii!inia!iiinnii!iiiiiiiriiiiii
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Stin&ays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 5S Middle Aisle for Tecli Stuaents.
Boosting was the' big discussion at 
an assembly in Margaret Morrison 
Tuesday noon, and the decision reach
ed was Stop Knocking; stop knock
ing your class, your instructors, your 
department and your school. A very 
good idea, too; for everywhere you go 
now you hear some one growling 
about their own particular trouble. 
When a bunch get together it is a 
race to see who has the longest list 
of grievances. If you hear any one 
knocking, do a little yourself; only do 
it to them. The knocking of the upj perclass girls is having a bad effect 
on the morale of the first-year girls, 
so keep your worries to yourself.
In order to cheer up those new 
girls and make them think there is 
something else in M. M. beside work, 
entertainments are to be given by the 
various classes in the Rec Hall at 
noons. Each class will have a day 
for its stunts, and - it is up to the 
members of the different, classes to 
find a new idea and present it in an 
interesting way.
Asuggestion box is to be put in the 
lower hall, and into this every girl is 
requested to put constructive sug
gestions for the improvement of our 
school. Dont stand about and tell 
other girls what you dont like or 
what you wish, write it on a piece of 
paper and drop it into this box, where 
it will be considered with all other 
suggestions.
. If you have any ideas that you 
think could be worked up into posters | 
for the -Booster Week give them to 
Irma Friedman, who is the chairman 
of the Poster Committee.
Another important thing discussed 
this week was the sad lack of spirit 
shown in athletics. Miss Coleman 
and Miss Patton are trying to gather 
up material for a varsity team for 
basket ball. If they are successful, 
they will schedule games between the 
varsity and the faculty. Tennis tour
naments are to be arranged for this 
spring.
The one big reason why we should 
show some pep in athletics is that,
was run without any mishap, and at 9'S, national secretary of the frater* 
2:15 p. m. Sunday afternoon it was j nity. spoke a few words on the college 
.......................... conditions in gnrai and comparedbrought to a close. After the last 
readings were taken the apparatus 
had to be taken down and gotten 
ready for shipment back to Pitts
burgh. But by 1 oclock all the group 
had left the plant and were getting 
ready for the return trip to Pitts\ burgh, so as to be on time for their 
j first Monday morning class. (A very 
[diligent bunch, these mechanicals;
| never like to miss school.) 
i At the plant the group was treated 
1 as nice as they could ever be treated.
! Mr. Stott, superintendent of power 
j for the McKinney Steel Company, did 
I all in his power to make things in
teresting for-the fellows, and certainly 
I made them feel at home. But as 
I much can be said for every man in 
; the plant with whom they came in 
! contact.
Assisting Professor Trinks was an 
old friend of his from the Mesta Ma
chine Company of Pittsburgh. Mr. 
llarie, who was on the job most of the 
time. Mr. Rarie is one of the best 
experts in this section of the country 
on Mesta engines and thus Professor 
Trinks could not have found a much 
better man. The Senior mechanic:; 
were represented by Cohen, Dicken
son, Ellerton, Faville, Iioban, Hovelich, Martin, W. S. Miller. R. S. Mil
ler, Powell and Wersant. In addition 
Professor Trinks was assisted by his j 
assistant from school. Mr. Keller, and i
the coming and present conditions 
with those which existed after the 
Civil War.
Several Delta U songs and cheers 
concluded the evenings entertain
ment.
11. W. Sclilunipf and L. E. Hawkins 
attended the district conference at 
Miami College. Oxford. 111. They left 
Pittsburgh on Thursday and were sup 
posed to return on Monday.
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY
Baseballs and Gloves Tennis Balls
3606 FORBES STREET
ZETA LAMBDA
Zeta Lambda Epsilon initiated six 
new members: A. J. Kerr, *20; I. T. 
Meyer. 21; C. G. Hauser, *22; G. A. 
Henderson. 22; J. H. Penski, 22, and 
G. L. Jordy, 22.
The father of C. E. Powell, Senior 
Mechanics, was a guest at the house 
this week.
Spike Parker, Fred Zeisenlieim 
and L. M. Collins blow around fre
quently.
OPHELEUM
The fraternity announces the fol
lowing pledges: Harold G. Culin, 20.
of Allentown, Pa.; Thomas N. Moore, 
20, G. M. Hayes, .Jr.. 20. and Charles 
L. Ridall, '21. of Pittsburgh, Pa.; 
William G.. Pennypacker 111.. 21, of 
Buffalo. N. Y., and John E. Hess, 21. Mr. Geist, a present help in time of | of Washington. Pa. Pennypacker and
OAKLAND 
POCKET BILLIARDS 
3710 FORBES STREET
THEATRICAL and 
MASQUERADECostumes
ESSER BROS.,711 PENN AYE.
DO YOU DANCE? j
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE K
JACQUES' DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE 
BEGINNERS CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
trouble, to all mechanicals.
The trip is, perhaps, the biggest 
trip ever undertaken by . any class 
from Tech or even from any other 
school in the country. A test like
Ridall were former students of Culver.
The fraternity held a smoker after 
the Penn State game last Thursday
this one is undertaken but rarely, and I .,*U I!0n01 .oE*T Parlce> w,1 
the present. Senior class is lucky to  V house. Parke
be the one to get the benefit of it,.1 a si y ootball man on the
One thing is certain, the McKinney 
Steel Companys power plant would 
make a fine mechanical laboratory, 
and it has been remarked that this 
trip/ did more good to the Senior 
Mechanicals -than a whole semester of 
such work at school, where conditions 
are different. One thing is certain, 
the work done was not theoretical.
It was practical: The Mechanicals on 
this trip will never forget itthe 
treatment they received and the men
rMxxxtxxxxtxxxuxxtxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxnxxxxxxxxxxi
Come to the OPEN HOUSE SOCIAL
1914 team.
A banquet was held. Friday night at 
the Schenley Hotel. Many of the old 
members who have just come back 
from over there were present, and 
supplied plenty of entertainment with 
tli$ir stories.
The members of the fraternity en
joyed a dancing party at the Rittenliouse Saturday night.
Frit
3904 FORBES STREET
EYKRY SUNDAY AT 4:30 I*. M 
Home Cooked Lunch 15 cents
lids, Social Time and Music. Interesting 
eussions. Rest and Reading Rooms. 
Recreation Room and Den.
DisThird United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
i Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages, 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn-to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Services, 8:00 a. m., 11:00 
a. m. and 8:00 p-. m.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, 
led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
ixximixxxnxxt~xxxxxxxxxxtxxxxxxmxxxxxxtxxxxxxxztxxxxtxx...Axxixxxuxxxxxxixxx*xxx.......
Who Do You Nominate? 
Tech Laziest Man?
And any other nonsense.
Leave nominations at the Post Office.
unless we do, wo arent going to get 
any use out oC the Y hut or the ten
nis courts that are to be laid out. It 
we dont show the men that we have 
some use or the new quarters they 
aren't going to offer them to us. when 
they can and will use them all the 
time.
The week of February 27 has been 
a rather notable one in M. M. C. C. 
history. In addition to the launching 
of the much-talked-of "Booster Cam
paign, which will soon be on in full 
swing, there have been several im
portant elections. Miss Mary Tru
man, president of the Senior Class 
was chosen May Queen for the big 
May-day festival, preparations for 
which will soon be under way. Miss 
Margaret Sloan was chosen secretary 
and treasurer of the Guild, Miss Lucy 
Hart vice president of the Athletic 
Association and Miss Harriet Stone 
head of hockey. The Freshman Class 
elected Sara Heu.derson and Harriet 
Morgan clieer-leaders.
they were associated with. All they 
wish is that there ,could be others 
like it.
DO 10 THINK SO?
Students Welcome 
FRED SUDDABY?S 
CAFETERIA 
BUREAU OF MINES BLDG. 
11 A. M. to 2 P. M.
Every school day.
Great Eats at 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STS. 
Fred Suddaby, Propr.
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty
Written guarantee with each 
machine. Victor and Fox 
agency.FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
Phone Court 866.
SENIOR MECHANICALS
MAKESJNSPECTION TOUR
(Continued From Page One) 
a. short test on a Mesta blowing to 
determine the volumetric efficiency. 
As the blowing engine was only mak
ing SO revolutions per - minute there 
were also several experimental co-ef
ficients to determine, chief of which 
was the co-efficient of vibration. The 
engine was run at different  speeds 
and against different pressures. This 
test lasted about three hours, and by 
5 oclock was completed, but by this 
time all the apparatus had been set 
up and things were ready for the main 
test.
Due to unforeseen cinditions, the 
power steam consumption test did 
not start until 3:15 a. m. Sunday 
morning, after which it was run con
tinuously until 2:15 p. m., Sunday aft
ernoon. This test connsisted of de
termining the steam consumption and 
efficiency qf two cross-compound, 
non-condensing horizontal Mesta 
blowing engines, and also the power 
output of a 2,500 K. W. low-pressure 
turbine. This low pressure turbine 
uses the exhaust steam from the j 
blowing engines, and thus the plant 
gets a higher efficiency than if this 
steam was not used.
Outside of minor details the test
(Continued From Page One.) 
the accenter and certainly feel obliged 
to Cheerleader Stark for giving 
them such a1 good chance to let out 
their extra energy and help along the 
Tech cheering.
What do you think of this as es
tablishing a precedent, girls? If there 
is going to be a Renaissance of Pep, 
the basket ball games in our gym 
seem to be a good starting point. Set 
the ball in motion and get a littl 
petus, and the rest is simple. The 
M. M.s have made a good start. 
Dont you think so?
FRATERNITY NOTES
DELTA UPSILON
The Delta Upsilon Club of Western 
Pennsylvania and; the Carnegie Chap
ter held a banquet at the University 
Club, Tuesday night, February 18.
Sixty brothers attended, represent
ing twenty-two chapters, besides the 
entire local chapter. C. B. Horton, 
Columbia, 98, acted as toastmaster, 
with E. L. S'chriner, Michigan, '94, as 
master of ceremonies..
Toasts were made by Brothers C. 
B. Horton, E. L. Schriner, E. C. Morry, 
Syracuse, 84, and Judge Schaffer, W.- 
J., 67.
P. H. Armor presented the condi
tions at Tech and in the  chapter 
house, and R. E. Rundle reported the 
financial circumstances.
Captain Mollsbery, who had just 
returned from France, wearing the 
Distinguished Order Cross, awarded 
for valor at Belleau Woods, gave a 
very interesting outline of his experi
ences. Although in the Engineers, 
Captain Mollsberry said that they 
were often sent over the top with the 
Infantry,-'and several times without 
the Infantry. He reported Pick 
Hines to have been one of his officers 
and a real man in a scrap. Although 
both of these men were uninjured, 
their companys casualties were over 
sixty per cent.
Brothei* II. W. Conpjdon, Columbia,
EAT THE MILLER WAY
BIGGEST, BRIGHTEST, BEST CAFETERIA AND RESTAURANT IN PITTSBURGH 
BEST VARIETY, BEST SERVICE, MOST FOR YOUR MONEY
S SUBWAY  No. 440 to 444 Masters WayNo 8 Fifth Avenue Arcade

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARC"
PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY. MARCH 5, 1919
MeSlon
National
Barak'
PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000 
Surplus------$4,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
A SATIRE
BollSchcnlcy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. 13. T. Shuman) 
I)HY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
Ladle' and Menn Clothe, Carpel, Ruir, PortiereWork Guaranteed and Turned Out on Short Notice.Will call for all prcHHlnii find cleaning at Frat IIouiteB.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) PITTSBURGH, IA.
jjimmmuMmmmmtMmmimtmm!!
I OAKLAND 
SHOE REPAIRING | 
COMPANY |
Angelo Clemente, Prop, u 
| 126 OAKLAND AVE. | 
| Pittsburgh, Pa.
  mtmmitmtttmmnmttttmitumttmnt
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers 'and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
IG SIXTH STREET ,'.mimtimmmmmtmmmraiimtmm
WEBER EXPRESS & 
STORAGE CO.
Bell Phone 239 8chenley.
Moving, Pno.king and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4010-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
Oakland Annex
3708 FORBES ST.
Try our 40c Regular Dinners.
From 11 A. M. to 8 P. M. 
Soup, Meat, Two Vegetables, 
Dessert and Coffee and Tea. 
I wandered into a strange land; I meandered into a weird do
minion peopled with strange and curious creatures. This place, with 
no borders, no limits, was a universe unto itself and the inhabitants 
thereof had not the sense of material boundaries. They lived in an 
atmosphere of illimitable possibilities; they dwelt in a sphere of in
finite potentialities where mortal conventions and customs were un
recognized and unheeded.
Impelled as if by the magnetism of an omnipotent, unseen hand, I 
walked amidst this uncanny region and lista noise was audible. Nat
urally, afar in such an unknown land, was I amazed to hear the rattle 
of machine-guns. But wait, no, a mistake of my too worthless, mortal 
car, it was but the bibulous talking of the people. From another direc
tion came the obnoxious sound of the Klaxon-horn, but again my vaccuous mind was deceivedtwas but the garrulous discussions among 
the inhabitants. But what fantastic ideas were expressed, what Bo
hemian tastes were revealed, what fatalistic creeds and impression
istic doctrines were expounded! We, said they, are the animate 
manifestations of dreams. We,'' and they threw at me a withering 
look, are not cognizant of you ordinary mortals; but we associate, we 
thrive, we live to the fullest in the seventh plane of existence. That 
you cannot understand us, is because of your corporeal mind; that you 
should not mingle among us, is because your tea-square-concrete-turbine-gas-engine-clothescommercialized, theater-money-problem -play 
brain cannot comprehend our immortality!
From such a verbal fusillade I tremblingly recoiled; but gathering 
all the strength my worthless flesh could muster, I again approached 
the heavenly congregation, and with meek voice and humble mien, 
questioned the seething, incoherent and bemuddlcd multitude,' thusly: 
Pray, what manner of place and persons is my wilting soul amongst? 
And with shouts like unto thundir with mingled noises of vengeance, 
contempt, scorn and pity, they cried.
THISTHIS IS THE DRAMA DEPARTMENT.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB 
MEETS TO ORGANIZE
On Tuesday afternoon, February 25, 
a meeting was held in order to start a 
Cosmopolitan Club. At this meeting 
eleven different nationalities were rep
resented. Mr. A. W. Tarbell, dean of 
men, opened the meeting with a short 
talk about the advantages of such a 
club, not only to the foreign students, 
but also to the' American ones. The 
main object of the club will be to pro
mote friendship and common under
standing between its members of so 
widely different antecedents, and a 
lot of good work will be done in the 
future with regard to welcoming and 
helping along the foreign students 
that com to Tech to receive their 
education, and who do not exactly feel 
at home. Mr. Tarbell is one of those 
that are very much in favor of this 
movement and he has helped the or 
ganization committee right along in 
starting the club.
With Mr. A. W. Prlns, sophomore 
science, as temporary chairman, and 
Mr. .J. Uraverman as temporary sec
retary, a constitution was made up, 
which will be adopted this afternoon, 
March 5, at '1:150 oclock, in room 113, 
Science Building. At, tills meeting the 
oilicers of the club will be elected and 
members will be adopted, All stu
dents that are interested in the move
ment: will be very welcome,
The following Is the geographical 
distribution of the foreign students:
China..................................... i)
Philippines ...................... 6
Russia ................................ fi
France .............................. 4
Italy .................................... *1
(.ree ce ............................... 'I
Canada .............................. 4
England ............................. 3
Ireland ............................... 2
Japan .................................. 2
Serbia ................................ 2
Brazil ................................. 1
Chile .................................. 1
Colombia, S. America I
Cuba ................................... I
Denmark .......................... 1
British Guinea.............. 1
Germany .......................... 1
DESIGN COSTUME BALL 
ELABORATELY ARRANGED
The attention of all Design School 
alumni and former students is direct
ed to the fact that admission to the 
?ete Fantastic for them will be three 
dollars per couple. Because of the 
elaborate preparations for the ball it 
necessary that the committeesin 
charge have an estimate of the num
ber who will attend. For that reason, 
all alumni and former students who 
contemplate attending the ball are 
rged to remit their money to I. S. 
Starck as soon as possible.
The committee on decoration is 
busy working out further ideas of 
decorating the building and it is cerlin the decorations will be in keep
ing with the splendor of the entire afair. The building will he a veritable 
Oriental Paradise, serving as a fit 
background for the beauty of the 
scene.
The costumes are to be the bizarre 
ind fantastic, rather than the or
dinary Oriental. The ball will be 
brilliant with bright color. All dull 
tones, such as purples, blues and 
blacks, will be conspicuous by their 
ibsence. The great variety of cos
tumes, the kaleidoscopic ensemble, 
and the riot of colors will mike a 
scene rivaling in magnificence and 
splendor the court of Chu Chin Chow. 
The guests will all be masked until 
midnight-and no one'will be admitted 
who is not in costume.
FORBES AND ATWOOD
Special Values in Men's Hose' 
black and all colors
29g a Pair
Onyx Brand Silk Hoseii 
black and all colors
'66c a PairI
J. 1. F.
SHAVING PARLOR
Hair Cutting a Specialty
3721 Forbes Street
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
cJhc largest selling? 
quality pencil in 
ine wo vid.
Trial samples of 
VENUS pencils sent 
free on request.
American Lead Pencil Co.
___215 Fifth Avc., Dep \Y27 DU V,
Of all stationers and stores throughout the rvorld.
I lunga 
Java
Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. MARSHALL 
COMPANY
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
BARROWS 
Jazz Orchestra
Two to Five Pieces 
AL EPSTEIN, VIOLINIST 
of the Musical Nuts of New York 
J. RALPH BARROW, PIANIST 
of the Washington Jazz Orchestra, 
Washington,' D. C.
Phone Hazel 11)97.
Poland 
Porto Rico 
Saxony
58
FOOTBALL PROSPECTS 
BRIGHT FOR NEXT YEAR
Trainer Bert Munliall, who has 
-all the dope on Tech athletics, past, 
present and future, sees bright pros
pects for next years football team. 
Big Abe Levy, after the Lafayette 
game, said that' he is thinking of com
ing to Tech. Nig Finlay, also, may 
come back, said Bert, along with 
Vet' Williams and Lusk. Others on 
the probable list are Alexander, Wag
ner, Curtis, Phil Marshall and Brenneman; the last two are with the 15th. 
Engineers.
Then, of course* Bloom and Lynn 
are still with.us, besides a lot of new 
material from the plebes, who have 
had a little 'training last fall in the 
S. A. T. C.
Coach Steffens has been re-engaged 
and with the men listed here, Tech 
should put on the field one of the best 
teams in her history.
Another innovation at. Tech is 
spring football practice. Although 
plans are not completed and much 
doubt is expressed, at present spring 
practice looks very probable. Fur
thermore, the squad may go to the 
farm' for a few weeks before school 
opens in the fall.
Since writing the above article, 
word arrived that Capt. McFeaters 
will return to Techmore good news.
THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES 
MANTELS AND TILING
945 Liberty Avenue
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
FROM PITT WEEKLY v
Whoda thunk it? Tech actual*> 
: ly beat Lafayette after that team ?:* 
nosed out Pitt two nights previv 
> otis. Well, well just have to show v 
those Schenley lads where they *1 
get off at. How about it, Tech? *
BONUS PAY FOR ALL MEN NOW AVAILABLE
DRAWING
INSTRUMENTS
AMERICAN MADE 
These instruments, 
are thoroughly ac
curate and depend
able and the equal 
of instruments that 
cost twice as much.
The set consists 
of: 1 Compass, 6-
inch, with pen point,
, pencil point, adjust
able needle point, 
and lengthening bar. ! 
1 Spacing Divider, 6- 
inch. 1 Ruling Pen, ' 
5-inch. 1 Bow-Pen.
1 Bow-Pencil. 1 Lead 
Box (with 3 extra 
leads). 1 Adjusting . 
Key. Price complete, 
all packed in good 
pocket case,
$12.00
Steiner & Voegtly
HARDWARE CO. 
TECHNICAL SUPPLY Hdqtrs. 
230-234 DIAMOND ST., 
PITTSBURGH
Telegraphic instructions that have 
been issued from the headquarters of 
all military departments, a copy of 
which were received by The Gazette 
last evening, tell how all discharged 
soldiers, sailors and marines should 
go about securing the $60 bonus grant
ed them under the Revenue Act of 
1918, which was just approved last 
Monday. It reads:
All persons separated from the 
military service from April 6, 1917, to 
date of Teceipt Of these instructions 
who are entitled to the $60 bonus in 
reference, and who have received 
their final pay, will forward claim for 
such bonus direct to the'Zone Finance 
Olllcer, Lemon Building, Washing
ton, D. C., who is hereby designated 
to settle such claims. Such applica
tion must contain (a) the discharge 
certificate or order for discharge or 
relief, if no certificate was issued, but 
both certificate and order if both wer 
issued, the paper bearing indorsement 
of final payment being required, (b) 
a statement of all military service 
since April 6, 1917, showing place and 
date of reporting at first military sta
tion, and (c) address to which check 
is to be sent. When settlement 
made all personal papers will be re
turned to applicant with check. No 
further correspondence is necessary 
except to advise of change in address 
of applicant. No other disbursing of
ficers are authorized to pay claims 
covered by this paragraph.
The act covers the cases of all men 
serving in the military or naval serv
ice during the present war, who liav 
since April 6, 1917, resigned or been 
discharged under honorable condi
tions (or, in the case of reservists, 
been placed on inactive duty). All 
persons separated from the service 
from now" henceforth will receive the 
$60 bonus in addition to their regular 
final settlement money.The GazetteTimes.
STUDENTS
Desiring to work an hour or more 
a day can make wages of more than 
$1.00 per hour selling Americas 
War for Humanity and Life of 
Roosevelt. Send at once for free 
outfit. F. B. Diskerson Co., Detroit, 
Mich., enclosing 20 cents in stamps 
for mailing outfits.
I OAKLAND EXPRESS Al 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phones 578 and 9169 
Schenley P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
 Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
Must Take the Risk.
Do not expect the ship to return 
loaded with precious treasures without 
being exposed to dangers.
P
RICE for price, grade for grade, 
there is no better pipe made 
than aV/DC. You can get a pipe 
with the familiar triangle trade
mark in any size and shape anti-, 
grade you wantand you will be 
glad you did it. W D C Pipes are 
American made and sold in the 
best shops at $6 down to 75 cents.
WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer
Here is a pipe to be proud of in any company. Genuine French Briar, carefully selected,beautifully worked, superbly mounted v/ith sterling band and vulcanite bit.
THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR
R. T. LEWIS CO.
PRINTING
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS 
AND FRATERNITY
Phipps Power Building
Bell Phone 4418 Court Pittsburgh, Pa.
BATTERY
SERVICE
CITY ELEGTRIG GO.
436 SEVENTH AVE. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
INDUSTRIES SCHOOL HOLDS 
PATRIOTIC ASSEMBLY
The School of Applied Industries 
held a patriotic assembly Wednes
day, and a final program was carried 
out. President Batman, who has just 
returned from Camp Lee, presided 
over the meeting. After all business 
wras finished, Col. Brooks outlined the 
course to be given next year in mili
tary science.
Bob Avery next, gave a very inter
esting talk on aviation. He explained 
the how, which and what of the loopthe-loop, falling leaf and many other 
aeronautic stunts.
Next, was II. Carfagiia, a Freshman 
who had made 10 trips across the 
Atlantic, and who had many fine ad
ventures to tell about. He held the 
rating of first-class radio operator. On 
his -first trip he caught an S. O. S. 
call and were sighted by a submarine 
but, due to their speed, escaped. On 
his last trip his vessel had a race with 
the Leviathan, the largest vessel 
afloat, from Brest to New York. A 
bet of $3,000 was made by the crew 
and his boat, won, only after they 
had run their engines up to 2S knots 
an hour.
This patriotic-program will be car
ried out at the next assembly, as 
there are several men in school who 
have seen active service, especially 
one who has been in the Navy 16 
years.
LARGEST SELECTION OF
Musical Instruments
IN THE STATE
Every necessary instrument 
Brass or Stringfor Bands and 
Orchestras,
New and Slightly Used Instru
ments at specially low prices.
Strings and Supplies of all kinds.
GAILINGERS
929 LIBERTY AVENUE
Established 65 Years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY ...........PENN 10 FRANKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearif he is 
careless of that, he's apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are 'all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of tl^e most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair. Special Mens Dept.
STUDENTS 
When downtown visit
FOSTERS CAFETERIA
Moderate Prices Cleanliness Music
324-6-8 DIAMOND STREET
