SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Walesa opens International Film Festival  B8Track and ?eld teams make strong showing at meet  A12
SCITECH
Visiting lecturer speaks on wastewater re?nement  A6
thetartan.org
@thetartan
March 24, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 21
Student  government candidates speak out
Its almost time again for 
student government elections  elections open at 12 
p.m. on Thursday, March 27 
and close at 6 p.m. on Monday, March 31. This year, 
two Student Body President 
(SBP) and Student Body Vice 
President (SBVP) tickets are 
running, along with three 
candidates each for Student 
Body Vice President for Organizations  (SBVPO) and Student Body Vice President for 
Finance (SBVPF). 
Starting March 27, students may also vote for the 
over 40 candidates across 
Carnegie Mellons six colleges and the BXA/SHS program 
running for Undergraduate Student Senate. When it 
comes time to vote, students 
can cast their ballots electronically on any of the days, 
or in person on Thursday, Friday, or Monday. 
Election debates for SBP 
and SBVP are this Tuesday 
at 5 p.m. in the University 
Centers Rangos 2, and SBVPO and SBVPF debates are 
this Wednesday at 6 p.m. in 
Doherty Hall 2210. 
CMU in Haiti forges bonds over spring break
GEORGE LEDERMAN
Junior Staffwriter
While many Carnegie Mellon students traveled to the 
Caribbean over spring break 
in search of beaches, concerts, and frozen margaritas, 
10 Carnegie Mellon students 
made their ?rst trip to Haiti 
with a more service-oriented 
goal.
CMU in Haiti, the nascent 
student organization that 
sponsored the trip, raised 
$6,000 for various charities 
in Haiti  one of the worlds 
poorest countries  which 
they distributed during their 
visit. They supported Society 
of Providence United for the 
Economic Development of 
Ption-Villois (SOPUDEP), a 
Haitian grassroots organization which runs a school, a 
micro?nance program called 
Fam SOPUDEP an Aksyon 
(FASA), and a group to empower women called Mouvements des Jeunes Unis pour 
le Dveloppement des Bobin, 
Ption-Villois (MOJUB).
This trip is CMU in Haitis 
?rst to the country; co-founders electrical and computer 
engineering and business administration double major Ian 
Glasner and professional writing major Laura Scherb founded the organization in 2013 as 
an effort to not only take an 
annual spring break trip, but 
also to establish and maintain 
a relationship with their counterparts in Haiti. Glasner was 
inspired by his high school 
experience at Los Altos High 
School in Los Altos, Calif., 
where he was a member of 
the outreach and philanthropy organization Solidarity in 
Haiti. Los Altos High School 
recently became an of?cial 
sister school of SOPUDEP after Solidarity in Haitis annual 
trips to Haiti connected the 
two schools.
Glasner hopes that CMU 
in Haiti will stand out among 
the myriad of other student 
organizations that take spring 
break trips to impoverished 
countries or domestic places 
in need, including Global 
Medical Brigades (GMB) and 
Global Public Health Brigades 
(GPHB), which both traveled to Honduras this year; 
Orphanage Outreach, which 
traveled to the Dominican 
Republic; and Habitat for Humanity, which traveled to Macon, Ga.
All of these organizations 
do service work, from providing medication and public 
health infrastructure in the 
case of GMB and GPHB, respectively, to building homes 
for those in need, like Habitat 
for Humanity, or volunteering 
at orphanages like Orphanage 
Outreach. 
CMU in Haiti also focuses 
on service, with additional 
goals that involve forming relationships with the Haitian 
people the students interact 
with and nongovernmental 
organizations (NGOs) like 
SOPUDEP.
Glasner and Scherb hope 
to establish a similar relationship between Carnegie Mellon Courtesy of Holly Dennis
Members of CMU in Haiti discuss the condition of a refugee camp in 
Delmas, Port-au-Prince, Haiti with its directors. See OUTREACH, A3
CMUs Doha, Qatar campus turns ten
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
In 2004, Carnegie Mellon 
opened a branch in Education City, a region of educational facilities on the outskirts of Doha, the capital of 
Qatar. Last Tuesday, the university celebrated the tenth 
anniversary of the CMU Qatar campus with an hour-long 
ceremony featuring key leadership from both campuses, 
as well as alumni, faculty, 
students, and distinguished 
international guests.
When Carnegie Mellon 
opened its Education City 
campus in 2004, it began by 
teaching only 41 students 
in two academic programs. 
Now it offers ?ve programs, 
including biological sciences, business administration, computational biology, computer science, and 
information systems to over 
400 students.
CMU Qatar has graduated over 300 students in its 
decade of education, all of 
whom have enrolled in top 
graduate programs or been 
sought out by the worlds 
leading companies.
Mark Kamlet, provost and 
executive vice president of 
Carnegie Mellon, spoke on 
behalf of Ilker Baybars, the 
dean of the CMU Qatar campus, at the ceremony in Doha 
on Tuesday.
I will say  and the students know  that the Carnegie Mellon curriculum in 
Qatar is every bit as rigorous, 
as challenging, as thorough, 
and as demanding as in Pittsburgh. I also want to say that 
the students here have done 
extraordinarily well. And I 
mean not only academically 
but as ethical, bright, hardworking, and humane leaders, Kamlet said. Indeed we 
are here helping to create the 
next generation of leaders, 
entrepreneurs, thinkers, and 
problem solvers.
CMU Qatar has received 
much recognition from the 
international community. 
One measure of this recognition, a university press 
release notes, is the many 
high-pro?le visitors that the 
universitys campus in Qatar has hosted, including Bill 
Gates, Hillary Clinton, and 
former U.S. Secretary of Energy Steven Chu.
University president Subra Suresh said that the success of CMUs Qatar campus 
is a hallmark of Carnegie 
Mellons leadership in the 
?eld of higher education.
Higher education and 
governments are awakening 
the need for greater educational opportunity, and many 
are taking action. But I can 
think of no other nation that 
has responded as vigorously 
and imaginatively as has Qatar, Suresh said in a university press release. The story 
of Education City has been a 
powerful example for the entire world, and the world has 
taken notice of this success.
The tenth anniversary 
celebration comes on the 
heels of the annual Initiating 
Meaningful Pittsburgh and 
Qatar Ties (IMPAQT) program, which sends Carnegie 
Mellon students from Pittsburgh to Qatar every Spring 
Break.
IMPAQT, according to its 
website, began in 2008 as 
part of a ?fth-year scholar initiative. The program is meant 
to develop strategies and 
Courtesy of Kaytie Nielsen
The Initiating Meaningful Pittsburgh and Qatar Ties (IMPAQT) program 
is meant to create a more tangible connection between Carnegie Mellons Pittsburgh and Doha campuses. 
See ANNIVERSARY, A3
AB announces Spring Carnival artists
LILAH BUCHANAN
Staffwriter
After much anticipation, 
AB Concerts announced on 
Wednesday at 11:59 p.m. this 
years Spring Carnival concert performers: Icona Pop 
and Mac Miller. Icona Pop is 
a Swedish DJ duo with an emphasis on electro house and 
indie pop. The duo gained 
attention in the United States 
for their song I Love It in 
2012. Mac Miller, a rapper 
and Pittsburgh native, is most 
popular for his song Party on 
Fifth Ave.
Icona Pop and Mac Miller 
come on the heels of Lupe Fiasco, who performed at last 
years Spring Carnival, and 
Passion Pit, who performed at 
the 2012 Spring Carnival.
AB Concerts co-chairs junior computer science major 
Rebecca Paren and senior 
human-computer interaction 
and business administration 
double major Ronny Ho explained their selection, saying 
that because its so dif?cult to 
please the campus as whole, 
they liked the idea of selecting 
two distinct artists to appeal 
to a wider audience.
The selection process 
started with a collective brainstorming session, Ho said. 
Literally on a chalk board  
everyone just name-drops artists and bands, Ho described.
From there, it came down 
to questions of scheduling, 
cost, and campus appeal. Ho 
and Paren noted that it can 
be dif?cult to get top artists 
for Spring Carnival, because 
it usually coincides with the 
Coachella Valley Music and 
Arts Festival in California. The 
members of AB Concerts also 
usually avoid country music, 
because they doubt that it will 
appeal to a large segment of 
the student body. 
Beyond that, Paren and Ho 
said, the co-chairs are open to 
anything, although the university prefers that they stay 
away from artists that encourage marijuana use.
Paren and Ho are excited 
for Mac Miller; they both liked 
the idea of featuring an artist from the Pittsburgh area 
for the 100th Spring Carnival. They are also excited 
to host an up-and-coming 
foreign group like Icona Pop.
The student bodys reaction is mixed. Icona Pop has 
generally garnered more excitement than Mac Miller. 
First-year mechanical engineering and engineering and 
public policy double major TJ 
Murray explained, I am excited for Icona Pop because they 
take me back to the glory days 
 and nights  summer.
Saumya Dalal, a junior 
computer science major, said 
that this years artists are a 
marked improvement over 
previous years. I think its a 
I am excited for Icona Pop 
because they take me back to the 
glory days  and nights  of 
summer.
TJ Murray
First-year mechanical engineering and engineering and public policy double major
See CONCERT, A3
For more information about: 
The SBP and SBVP candidates, see A4 
The SBVPO candidates, see A4
The SBVPF Candidates, see A5

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  March 24, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
A previous version of the article Guinness Comes to 
Heinz in the March 3 issue of the Tartan stated that 
Pennsylvania does not have an MLS team. The Philadelphia Union are an MLS team in Chester, Pa. The 
article also stated that soccer would not make its way 
into the hearts of Pittsburghers, but now speci?es 
major league soccer.
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents prepare for graduation in Rangos
WEATHER
Theft from Vehicle
March 14, 2014
University police were 
summoned to the Morewood 
parking lot after a student 
reported a theft from his vehicle. The student reported 
that he left his vehicle unattended and unlocked at 
around 8 p.m. When the victim returned to his vehicle, 
the GPS had been taken from 
the glove compartment. 
Public Drunkenness
March 16, 2014
A university police of?cer 
on patrol stopped to attend to 
a visibly intoxicated individual on Morewood Avenue who 
was doubled over, vomiting. 
The of?cer stopped to check 
the students well-being and 
summoned CMU EMS. The 
male, identi?ed as a University of Pittsburgh student, was 
taken to the hospital for further treatment and issued a citation for public drunkenness.
Suspicious Person
March 17, 2014
University police were 
summoned to 4612 Forbes 
Ave. in response to an agitated woman trying to enter the 
building. Upon arrival, police 
determined that the woman 
was a disgruntled former 
Carnegie Mellon af?liate who 
was making uncon?rmed allegations against the university. 
The woman was issued a de?-
ant trespass notice forbidding 
her from Carnegie Mellon 
leased or owned properties. 
 
Disorderly Conduct
March 18, 2014
While assisting CMU EMS 
with a call in Hamerschlag 
House, a university police of?cer saw marijuana on a students desk. The of?cer con?scated the marijuana and 
con?rmed that it belonged to 
the student, who was cited for 
disorderly conduct.
iPhone Theft
March 18, 2014
University police investigated the theft of an iPhone 
from an employee at the Carnegie Mellon Caf, ?nding another employee as a suspect. 
After gathering evidence 
on the suspect, the police 
obtained an arrest warrant 
based on probable cause. After the employee was arrested, he was taken to the Allegheny County Jail and is being 
charged with unlawful theft. 
The iPhone was recovered and 
returned to its owner.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Students who are preparing to graduate at the end of this semester were able to purchase their caps, gowns, and other graduation regalia at the 
Graduation Fair last Tuesday and Wednesday in the University Centers Rangos Hall.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
U.S. News and World Report recently released its 2014 
undergraduate and graduate 
college rankings. Carnegie 
Mellon was ranked the number one graduate school for 
computer science in the United States, retaining the spot it 
earned in 2010, the last time 
U.S. News and World Report 
ranked graduate schools in 
computer science.
Carnegie Mellon was tied 
for the top spot with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford University, 
and the University of California, Berkeley. In specialty 
computer science rankings, 
Carnegie Mellon was ranked 
number one in programming 
languages, second in arti?-
cial intelligence, fourth in 
systems, and ?fth in theory.
Carnegie Mellon also 
earned several other top 20 
spots in the U.S. News and 
World Report graduate rankings, including ?fth in engineering, ninth in statistics, 
10th in part-time MBA and 
18th in full-time MBA.
For engineering, speci?-
cally, Carnegie Mellon was 
ranked fourth in computer 
engineering, seventh in environmental engineering, 
eighth in electrical engineering, and 10th in mechanical 
engineering.
On the overall list of national university rankings, 
Carnegie Mellon retained its 
ranking of 23rd.
Carnegie Mellon maintains top ranking
CMU research analyzes asthma patients
Wei Wu, an associate professor in Carnegie Mellons 
Lane Center for Computational Biology, recently conducted research published 
in the Journal of Allergy and 
Clinical Immunology. Wu led 
the analysis of data obtained 
from the Severe Asthma Research Program, using computational biology methods 
to identify groupings of 
patients.
Wus methods were based 
on machine learning algorithms, which ?nd patterns 
in data and learn from what 
they ?nd to improve their 
performance from experience. Wus analysis was 
based on 112 asthma-related 
variables, measuring everything from lung function to 
family history. The clusters 
Wu identi?ed, in many cases, 
aligned with known grouping, such as asthma related 
to allergies, sinus disease, or 
environmental factors. Wu 
also identi?ed new clusters, 
however, such as one characterized by frequent, severe 
asthma symptoms associated 
with poor quality of life and 
depression in some obese 
women.
The ultimate goal is to 
develop treatments that 
are based on the biological mechanisms underlying each cluster of patients, 
rather than simply treating 
the symptoms, said Wu in 
a university news release. 
To accomplish this goal, Wu 
and her collaborators are 
analyzing genetic factors associated with each of the patient clusters.
Dr. Sally E. Wenzel, director of the University of 
Pittsburgh Asthma Institute 
at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and 
the University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, as well 
as lead co-author of the recently published paper, said 
that this research could 
have implications beyond 
just asthma. This approach 
has implications not just for 
asthma, but for all complex 
diseases, which include most 
chronic diseases, Wenzel 
said in the news release.
While many asthmatics 
respond well to corticosteroids, Wus research could 
help create more speci?c, genetically-targeted treatment 
plans for those who dont. 
The research was sponsored 
by the National Institute of 
General Medical Sciences 
and the National Heart, 
Lung, and Blood Institute 
of the National Institutes of 
Health.
Audience Participation: Carlos Diaz-PadronCommittee Updates: Academic Affairs
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
58 / 44
SATURDAY
High / Low
45 / 35
SUNDAY
High / Low
57 / 32
TUESDAY
High / Low
39 / 20
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
33 / 26
THURSDAY
High / Low
53 / 21
Carlos Diaz-Padron, junior information systems major and chair of the election 
board, spoke to Senate about 
the upcoming student government elections. Elections will 
began on Thursday, March 
27. Debates will be hosted by 
The Tartan on Tuesday, March 
25 for student body president 
and Wednesday, March 26 for 
student body vice president 
for organizations and student 
body vice president for ?-
nance.
The elections rati?cation meeting will be held on 
Wednesday, April 2.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
The Academic Affairs Committee discussed its recent 
Faculty Course Evaluation 
town hall meeting, which had 
a good turnout. A summary of 
the meetings discussion was 
provided to the administration 
to make changes to the current Faculty Course Evaluation 
system.
The Academic Affairs Committee is planning to put a 
printer in the Intersection housing cluster. The committee is 
also working on an academic 
relationships code that outlines 
a better relationship between 
students and faculty.
Special Allocation: Mens Volleyball
Senate allocated $1062.52 
to the mens club volleyball 
team for a new net. The team 
did not receive the money 
earlier because of a student 
government error last ?scal 
year.
Special Allocation:  Philosophy Dept.
Senate allocated $450 to 
the philosophy department. 
Although the allocation was 
originally $300, Senate voted 
to raise it to $450.
This money funded a trip 
to Israel during spring break 
for students in the philosophy 
department to learn more for 
a student-taught course that 
they are offering. 

---------------------------------------------------

March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
CMU in Haiti builds long-term connections on spring break trip
and the Haitian organizations 
they worked with this past 
spring break. CMU in Haiti, 
Glasner said, is distinguished 
not by the service they do  
although it is an important 
part of their initiative  but 
by the connections they are 
making with Haitian organizations and Haitian citizens.
It was an incredible trip, 
said Connie Yang, a ?rst-year 
mathematical sciences major. I went in knowing only 
some facts from the newspapers, like the level of poverty 
[in Haiti]. But there I learned 
about the people  they were 
so nice and genuine.
Glasner said that their 
work is as much about helping Haitians as it is about 
teaching students at Carnegie Mellon. Its about creating lifelong philanthropists 
 people who will be more 
knowledgeable, said Glasner, 
who is also currently student 
body vice president. Glasner 
has himself shown long-term 
dedication to Haiti; he has 
now traveled on three similar 
charitable trips to the nation.
CMU in Haiti emerged 
from The Uses and Abuses 
of Haiti, a seminar taught 
by Michael West, a professor 
in the department of modern languages at Carnegie 
Mellon. 
Glasner raised money for 
Haiti in high school with the 
Haiti Solidarity Club and 
spoke in the seminar about his 
experiences. 
Together with Scherb, he 
launched the club to address 
the urgent needs about which 
they had learned.
The club has three main 
purposes: ?rst, to raise money 
before the trip; this fundraising directly bene?ts the 
schools and organizations in 
Haiti; second, for the students 
to learn about Haitian culture 
and ways of life during the 
trip and forge connections 
with the Haitian people; and 
third, for the students to raise 
awareness about Haiti after 
the trip.
According to Yang, many 
of the NGOs working in Haiti 
suffer from the same types 
of corruption which have effectively crippled the Haitian 
government. To avoid this 
corruption, CMU in Haiti 
partnered with Rea Dol, a 
woman who has received international recognition for 
her grassroots efforts within 
Haiti. 
Dol founded SOPUDEP in 
the 1990s to help some of Haitis most impoverished residents through a number of 
ancillary organizations such 
as the SOPUDEP school and 
FASA; the need for her programs has intensi?ed since a 
2010 earthquake devastated 
much of Haiti.
The students visited a refugee camp that continues to 
house Haitians affected by the 
earthquake. 
The leader of the refugee 
camp gave an impassioned 
speech that the people of 
Haiti do not want to be given ?sh. They want to learn 
to ?sh. Their spirit, given 
those bad conditions ... is 
really amazing, said Yang.  
Editors Note: Laura Scherb 
is operations manager for The 
Tartan.
OUTREACH, from A1
CMU Qatar celebrates its 10th anniversary in Doha
initiatives to best leverage the 
relationship between the two 
campuses toward enhancing 
student life and the student 
experience on both.
Gail Wilson, a sophomore 
computer science major who 
recently returned from IMPAQT, said that CMU Qatar is 
an important way to expand 
Carnegie Mellons international name. Carnegie Mellon is getting on a much more 
international level, which is 
really, really cool. But also 
theyre starting anew there, in 
a way, Wilson said.
The dynamic between the 
two campuses is really interesting  theyre still Carnegie 
Mellon students, theyre still 
just as passionate, all that 
stuff, Wilson continued. But 
the campus is so small theyre 
also like a huge family there. 
Especially for us visiting, everyone knew us, everyone 
was saying hi to us, introducing us to friends. It was really, 
really cool.
Students who participated in IMPAQT each 
came up with a project to 
bridge the two campuses.  
Wilson planned to have students from both campuses 
answer questions to see the 
differences and similarities 
between the cultures of the 
two branches.
Wilson, however, said that 
her project evolved along 
with the rest of the groups. 
When we got there we decided, though  although a 
lot of us are keeping the same 
projects  but a lot of us are 
focusing on getting people at 
Carnegie Mellon Pittsburgh to 
know more about the Qatar 
campus.
ANNIVERSARY, from A1
Indeed we 
are helping to 
create the next 
generation 
of thinkers 
and problem 
solvers.
Mark Kamlet
University Executive 
Vice President
Mac Miller and Icona Pop to perform at Spring Carnival
good choice, she said. Its 
de?nitely better than last 
years concert, or the year 
before.
Sentiments about Mac 
Miller seem more negative 
than sentiments about Icona 
Pop. 
The ?rst thing I thought 
when I found out Mac Miller 
[was coming] was LOL, and 
then how he seems like the 
kind of artist that wouldnt 
want to perform at CMU, 
said ?rst-year ?ne arts major 
Joni Sullivan.
The co-chairs explained 
that the AB Concerts board 
always expects mixed feelings 
about their decisions.
We want the student 
body to understand we arent 
choosing people we love. 
Paren said, Our musical interests do not in?uence who 
we pick. We want to do whats 
best for the campus with the 
money and timing we have.
The concert will take place 
on Friday, April 11 at 8 p.m. 
on the Mall or, if there are bad 
weather conditions, in Wiegand Gymnasium. 
The concert on the Mall 
will be open to the public. 
Students will not be required 
to get tickets unless the concert is moved indoors, where 
space is limited.
Editors Note: News editor 
Brian Trimboli contributed reporting to this article. 
Courtesy of David Baboolall
Organization members work on construction of Delmas 83, SOPUDEPs new school building.
CONCERT, from A1
Senate continues First Lecture series with seniors Moore, Serrao
Courtesy of Activities Board
AB Concerts announced Wednesday this years Spring Carnival concert will feature Icona Pop, a Swedish pop 
duo, and Mac Miller, a rapper native to Pittsburgh. 
Courtesy of Kaytie Nielsen
Students from IMPAQT visited Doha, Qatar over spring break to foster ties between the two campuses. 
ALVIN MATHEW 
Assistant News Editor
The second installment of 
The First Lectures was held 
on Thursday, March 20 at 8 
p.m. The idea for the lecture 
series came from Vaasavi Unnava, a ?rst-year economics 
and statistics double major. 
The title First Lectures alludes to former computer science and human-computer 
interaction and design professor Randy Pauschs The 
Last Lecture, which he gave in 
McConomy Auditorium after 
being diagnosed with terminal pancreatic cancer in 2006.
In a previous interview, 
Unnava said she was particularly struck by the line, Its 
not about how to achieve your 
dreams, its about how to lead 
your life.
In his last lecture  and 
in the book it inspired which 
Pausch co-authored  Pausch 
discussed his journey through 
life and the notion of achieving your childhood dreams. 
According to the Facebook 
event page for The First Lectures, Each lecture is individualized and meant to tell 
the story of a senior, through 
good and bad, and is a re?ection on the past four years at 
Carnegie Mellon, and how his 
or her school and peers have 
impacted them.
The two speakers at last 
Thursdays event were senior 
acting major Thomas Constantine Moore and senior 
business administration major Stephen Serrao.
Moore discussed the importance of focus while at 
Carnegie Mellon. He spoke 
about how dif?cult it can be 
that so many actors are competing for a limited amount 
of roles. According to the U.S. 
Department of Education, 
over 90,000 bachelors degrees in visual and performing arts were awarded in 2011 
alone.
Moore noted, however, 
how the university provides 
its students with many opportunities. CMU sets people 
up, Moore said. CMU gives 
its students a competitive 
edge like none other. Students 
arrive with a passion and 
leave with understanding, 
skill, and connections.
At times, Moore said, the 
workload made him feel like 
he was drowning. Most of the 
time, he said, drowning us 
is this schools way of teaching us how to swim. Speci?-
cally, Moore talked about his 
experience in 15-112: Fundamentals of Programming and 
Computer Science. 
Moore said that although 
it was the class at Carnegie 
Mellon he had to work hardest in, he enjoyed it so much 
that he became a teaching assistant for it.
Moore soon found that 
he couldnt continue being a 
TA when he began his junior 
year. Junior year, youre in 
four shows, which means you 
can expect to be in rehearsal 
or performance six days a 
week, 12 weeks out of each 
semester, Moore said. One 
of the traits I think CMU 
people share, in general, is an 
absolute abhorrence for admitting defeat. But a big part 
of learning to focus is learning 
how to recognize when something is happening in your life 
that you really cant afford.
Moore maintained, however, that he had no regrets. 
Im still glad I did it. Im glad 
I tried it. Even though I was 
drowning, it was the sort of 
drowning that builds character, I think.
Moore thinks that the best 
way to ?nd success at Carnegie Mellon is to focus on one 
area you excel in, having a 
sense of incredible focus, and 
through the encouragement 
of adventurism. 
He also talked about some 
of the diverse and exciting 
events he has been involved 
with as a senior. This year 
Ive also choreographed a 
dance piece for the ?rst time, 
written and performed my 
own one-man show for Playground, successfully mounted 
an ongoing web comic, and 
begun to professionally design websites for actors in my 
program.
Serrao, a senior business 
administration major, questioned the de?nition of learning. He proposed a new de?-
nition: signi?cant learning. 
Signi?cant learning, Serrao 
said, calls for learning both 
inside and outside the classroom while creating a web of 
insight.
Serrao had three lessons 
for students at the school, 
urging them to strive for 
excellence, put people ?rst 
in everything you do, and to 
embrace vulnerability. According to Serrao, following 
these three guidelines is the 
key to success. Once you get 
these three points, youd be 
on your own path to learning, he said.
Regarding his ?rst point, 
Serrao said that it was important to maintain excellent 
company: whether youre in 
or out, and whether youre 
surrounded by the right 
people.
Speaking to his second 
point, Serrao admitted that 
initially I thought of my success before everyone else, but 
it just didnt work. I made it a 
prerogative to surround myself with excellent and successful people. 
According to Serrao, its 
important to start realizing 
success is not just about an 
individual, but also includes 
the people surrounding that 
individual.
Serrao also thought it was 
important to embrace vulnerability. Being vulnerable 
is being alive, and is when 
youre allowed to grow the 
most, Serrao said. To be 
able to grow as a person, you 
need to embrace risk and face 
its values. Its important to be 
aware, because it helps you 
grow.

---------------------------------------------------

4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  March 21, 2014
SBVPO candidates
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
First-year chemical engineering and engineering and 
public policy double major 
Trevor Hadick is running for 
student body vice president 
for organizations (SBVPO) 
on a platform of improving 
communication between organizations and the Committee on Student Organizations 
(CoSO), as well as increasing 
collaborations between organizations and making space 
allocations more ef?cient. 
Hadick also hopes to reform 
the current student government elections process by 
having two election periods: 
one in the spring to elect the 
SBVPO, and then another in 
the fall to elect members of 
the Committee on Student 
Organizations.
This position has been 
underutilized and underdeveloped; however, I plan on 
going above and beyond the 
de?ned duties of the position, Hadick wrote in an 
email. 
I want organizations to 
see me as a resource, even 
beyond recognition/re-recognition and space allocations. 
My goal is to be their ally by 
helping connect them to the 
important resources here on 
campus, assisting organizations transition to new leaders, and advocating for their 
thoughts and opinions.
According to his platform, 
Hadick plans to increase communication throughout the 
various organizations and 
branches of student government, but he also wants to 
ensure the retention of institutional knowledge. 
Though he is new to student government as a ?rstyear student, he has spoken 
extensively with more senior 
members to better understand the process. Hadick 
feels that his relative inexperience could prove to be an 
asset. I hope to bring a new 
perspective and fresh twist to 
the current procedures of the 
student body government.... 
I know that along the way 
there are going to be times 
when tough decisions need 
to be made, even if they are 
going to upset students. However, I must do what is in the 
best interest of the student 
body and organizations as a 
whole, Hadick wrote.
Hadick is vice president of 
the First-Year Advisory Board 
for the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology (CIT). The board 
acts as the voice of ?rst-year 
students in CIT and communicates with the administration, 
staff, and faculty. 
He is also a member of the 
mens club soccer team and a 
member of Engineers Without 
Borders (EWB). Next year, he 
will be a member of the International Project Planning 
Committee of EWB, as well as 
an RA in Mudge House.
Trevor Hadick
Courtesy of Trevor Hadick
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
Sophomore computer science and math double major 
Jackson Michalak is running for student body vice 
president for organizations 
(SBVPO) on a platform of reforming the room registration 
system and mature organizations re-recognition system, 
as well as giving organizations more help and support 
in recruiting. 
Michalak said that the 
position of SBVPO involves 
representing students, but 
that the point of the position 
is to represent organizations 
themselves. He said that these 
roles overlap.
Michalak said he would 
reform the room reservation 
system, which student organizations use to reserve space 
for meetings and various activities. I think its horrible to 
deal with, Michalak said.
Michalak also wants to 
streamline the system of creating new organizations on 
campus. I think there needs 
to be a clearer set of expectations for what is required for 
a new organization, Michalak said. For CoSO, Ive been 
acting as the chair of new recognition, so Im responsible 
for interacting with the new 
prospective organizations, to 
a large extent, to make sure 
their constitution is up to expectation and makes sense, 
and make sure that the structure that theyre trying to 
build will be stable.
Part of the problem, Michalak said, is that there is 
no clear list of what the expectations of a new organization are. If you go to the 
universitys website now, you 
go to the CoSO page  some 
of the information is out of 
date; its sort of ambiguous as 
to what the expectations are 
for a new organization. I do 
meet with an organization to 
help them with their constitution, [but] there are many 
things missing. Theres ideas 
that they didnt realize were 
required, or werent required, 
and theres all these sets of assumptions that dont match 
up. So I think it would be nice 
to have one place where all of 
that would be clear.
Another important area 
that some student organizations need help with is recruitment and general advice, 
according to Michalak. CoSO 
reaches out to support struggling organizations, and simply lacking membership is a 
very common problem. More 
generally, sometimes organizations need advice on how 
to improve day-to-day operations or special problems. I 
think it would be good to have 
a better outlet for advice on 
these things with an organization, Michalak said. Its a 
de?nite problem that should 
be addressed, and can be addressed reasonably.
Michalak is a member of 
the Plaid Parliament of Pwning (PPP), Carnegie Mellons 
computer security club. He is 
also the chair of new recognition of the Committee on Student Organizations, as well 
as a regular observer of the 
University Center Allocation 
Board (UCAB). Michalak began attending meetings when 
he decided to run for SBVPO.
Chloe Thompson/Staffwriter
Paul Kioko could not be reached for comment.
SBP/SBVP candidates
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
Junior chemistry major 
Dominic Akerele is running 
for student body president 
(SBP) with junior electrical 
and computer engineering 
major Rohan Saigal as student 
body vice president (SBVP) 
on a platform of increasing 
student engagement, making 
the printing system on campus more effective, creating a 
campus homepage speci?cally for students, and improving 
students general health.
Akerele and Saigal want to 
generally improve student life 
at Carnegie Mellon. This is a 
prestigious university  academically very stressful  so 
I think its the job of the student body [vice president] to 
distract everyone from that 
life, so you can get out of here 
with a good degree, a good 
job, and on track for your life, 
but at the same time make 
this the best four years possible, not just during the four 
days of Spring Carnival, Saigal said.
Akerele said that a major goal of his and Saigals 
campaign is to revamp Carnegie Mellon school spirit. We 
would like to build in [a spiritraising week], especially into 
the fall, because primarily I 
feel students only have one 
major thing that they look 
forward to, which is Spring 
Carnival, but I feel the fall is 
kind of lacking something, 
Akerele said. Wed have a 
week designated where wed 
amp up students, have activities going on, free food. And it 
all culminates in one ?nal day, 
maybe the Friday leading up 
to midsemester break, where 
the students have a day off, 
where we all get together as 
a campus. Id like to have Dr. 
Suresh give a speech, as well. 
I would also like to build the 
bond between the president 
and the student body  Id 
like to see a recurring speech 
to engage students.
Reforming printing will 
also be a focus of the campaign. Akerele and Saigal 
want to improve printing by 
either reforming the maintenance policies on the printers, 
or establishing more printing centers both on campus 
and off, in locations such as 
Doherty Apartments, Fairfax, or even Beeler Street. 
The running mates also want 
to create a student-oriented 
homepage, as the current 
Carnegie Mellon website is 
more oriented toward prospective students and parents. The proposed homepage 
would have a link to Carnegie Mellons Blackboard and 
show what extracurricular activities were going on around 
campus. The ?nal element 
of their campaign platform 
is improving student health. 
When we all leave CMU, 
obviously our career is very 
important, but everyones 
number one priority should 
be staying alive and living 
and [being as] healthy as possible. We dont promote that 
enough. Being healthy correlates directly with happiness, 
Saigal said. We want to make 
better maintenance of the 
Skibo Gym  better weights, 
more fans, more air ?ow. It 
looks like a prison cell sometimes; maybe paint it up. They 
are extending the UC in two 
years, but thats two years, 
not now.
Akerele is a COMPASS 
Mentor, which is a peer-mentoring program that bene?ts 
?rst-year minority students in 
science and math. He is also a 
brother of Pi Kappa Alpha, an 
RA in Doherty, and a member 
of the Committee on Student 
Organizations (CoSO). Saigal is a member of Carnegie 
Mellons Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 
the treasurer of Pi Kappa Alpha, and an avid Carnegie 
Mellon basketball fan.
Dominic and Rohan
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
Junior electrical and computer engineering and business administration double 
major Ian Glasner and junior biological sciences major Shalini Ray are running 
for student body president 
(SBP) and student body vice 
president (SBVP) on a platform of improving student 
policies, restructuring dining 
plans, and improving campus 
unity. Two notable reforms 
include restructuring the current dorm alcohol policy, and 
remodeling Faculty Course 
Evaluations (FCEs). As of 
now, Carnegie Mellons policy 
is that if underage drinking 
is reported or discovered on 
campus or in campus housing, police respond and cite 
the students involved. Those 
students then go before the 
Pennsylvania Magistrate and 
get a state citation from government of Pennsylvania. 
All eight Ivy Leagues, many 
private universities, and the 
University of Pittsburgh all 
have an internal system, in 
which an RA writes the student involved up for underage drinking, and the student 
goes through an internal disciplinary process. There is no 
of?cial citation. As Glasner 
put it, It goes on your permanent record for school, not 
your permanent record for 
your life.
Another notable reform 
would be reforming the current process of FCEs. Student 
Senate is currently trying 
to reform the system, and 
Glasner and Ray would continue those efforts. If you 
drop a class in the ?rst three 
weeks because the professor 
was awful, you dont participate in FCEs. Thats a huge, 
huge, gap, Glasner said.
Most of Glasner and Rays 
platform centers on increasing student input. Students 
need to be involved, and if 
students were involved, they 
wouldnt miss stuff like this, 
Glasner continued. Its not 
like they should have seen it, 
its just that students need to 
be in the room when policy is 
created. Students are the customers on this campus, were 
where all the money comes 
from, and its unfair to us to 
leave us out of the discussion.
Both Glasner and Ray expressed their commitment 
to improving student life. It 
would be a huge honor because being SBVP means that 
my peers trust my decisions 
and value (my) judgment 
and it places me in a position 
where I can make a tangible 
effect on student life on campus, Ray said via email.
Glasner is the Community 
Advisor (CA) at the Residence 
on Fifth, and will be the CA 
for Resnik and West Wing 
next year. He is a co-founder 
of CMU in Haiti, as well as 
a brother of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon.
Ray is a member of Carnegie Mellons bhangra team, 
the social chair for the Lunar 
Gala fashion show, a sister of 
Kappa Alpha Theta, a Student 
Senator and the vice chair of 
Student Senate. She is also a 
kickoff committee member of 
1000 Plus, a show board member of Mayur SASA, a member 
of Bhangra in the Burgh, OM, 
Doctors of Carnegie Society, 
Bio Student Advisor Council, 
Society of Asian Scientists 
and Engineers, Minority Association of Pre-Health Students, and a Group-X ?tness 
instructor.
Ian and Shalini
Courtesy of Ian Glasner and Shalini Ray
Fun Fact: 
Michalak speaks Polish ?uently.
Fun Fact:
At the age of 14, Hadick became a U.S. Soccer Federation 
Referee. Now, going into his ?fth summer as a referee, he will 
be promoted to a grade seven referee, which will allow him to 
referee soccer games across the continental U.S. 
Fun Facts:
Akerele is developing his own street-wear brand and 
watercolor paints.
Saigals father taught at Carnegie Mellon when he was a child, 
and he used to play in Baker and Porter Hall all the time.
Jackson Michalak
Fun Facts:
Glasner has been to Haiti three times.
 Even though she is from Baltimore, Ray is a diehard Steelers fan.

---------------------------------------------------

March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  5
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering major 
Divya Kothandapani is running for student body vice 
president for ?nance (SBVPF) 
on a platform of improving the 
transparency of the JFC and 
the advising resources for student organizations.
Kothandapani wrote in an 
email, I would like to make 
[organizations] more aware 
of the SBVPF and make myself 
approachable so [organizations] can contact me any time 
throughout the year if they are 
confused with how campus ?-
nances work and need advice 
to be successful.
Kothandapani wrote that 
the JFC currently only meets 
at the end of the academic 
year to determine what the 
following academic years 
budget will be, but that organizations must manage their 
budgets themselves throughout the year. 
She wrote that a lack of 
?nancial advising resources causes confusion and is 
a source of debt for many 
organizations.
She wrote that she would 
work to engage JFC representatives with organizations 
to familiarize them with the 
budgeting process and to understand why certain decisions are made. The JFC exists to support [organizations] 
and it wants to help your 
[organization] succeed, Kothandapani wrote. 
I want to create a better, friendlier image for this 
committee so the students 
are more comfortable and understand the importance of 
the resources it can provide. 
Kothandapani hopes to work 
closely with the SBVPO to 
more actively help organizations with fundraising, ideas, 
support, and promotion.
When asked what she 
hopes to accomplish for herself 
in the position, Kothandapani 
wrote, By helping [organizations] with something as important as ?nances, I would be 
proud of myself for reaching 
out to help them achieve their 
success and improving our student activities would make me 
even more excited to come to 
school everyday and be a part 
of this community.
She wrote that she hopes 
ot reach the student body 
even further as SBVPF to 
help a larger group  over 
200 student organizations 
 to succeed. Kothandapani 
joined Student Senate during 
her ?rst year at Carnegie Mellon as a member at large, and 
later, a CIT senator. 
She has served on the Business Affairs and Finance committees and is now the business affairs chair. She is also 
involved with the Executive 
Committee of Student Senate. 
Kothandapani is currently 
a JFC representative as well, 
a position which she wrote 
has helped her learn the pros 
and cons of the SBVPF position, including the strengths 
and weaknesses of the current 
system. The SBVPF chairs the 
JFC. Kothandapanis other involvement on campus includes 
treasurer for Hindu spirituality and culture organization 
OM, captain of classical Indian 
dance team Payal, a member 
of the CIT Community Building Commitee, and a Donner 
mentor.
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Junior chemical engineering major Elena Karras 
is running for student body 
vice president for ?nance (SBVPF) on a platform of creating more transparency in the 
funding process. Karras said 
she aims to create transparency through open metric meetings, of?ce hours, and bettereducated JFC representatives.
Karras said she would like 
to host an open metric meeting at the beginning of the 
year so that organizations 
can voice their opinions about 
what metrics the JFC should 
use to fund organizations, and 
to answer questions about the 
metrics. Typical metrics include travel, food, and lodging, among others. Its sort 
of a way to hear the voices of 
the people who are involved 
in the process, Karras said 
about the potential meeting.
To keep lines of communication open between the 
SBVPF and student organizations, Karrass platform includes expanding the of?ce 
hours that current SBVPF 
Jalen Poteat held this academic year. 
Karras said she would hold 
the of?ce hours all year, with 
increased hours during the 
budget submission period. I 
also want to make sure that 
[organizations] feel comfortable coming to me with any 
questions that they have, 
Karras said. According to Karras, organizations are often 
unaware of all of their options 
for funding, what they can 
do with their money, and the 
funding process itself.
Karras said she would release JFC applications during 
the summer and choose representatives at the beginning 
of the academic year in order 
to train them extensively on 
the entire budget process. 
Its really important to 
choose [representatives] early and make sure theyre clear 
on what the funding avenues 
are  not just the JFC process 
 but the funding process 
as a whole, Karras said. She 
wants representatives to be 
comprehensive resources for 
their organizations.
According to her platform, 
Karras would also strengthen 
collaboration with the student body vice president for 
organizations (SBVPO) to ensure that she and the SBVPO 
are both in agreement in 
terms of where organizations 
are and what organizations 
need.
Karras has been a member of Student Senate and the 
JFC for two semesters, where 
she has guided organizations 
through the funding process 
as a representative. She has 
gone through the funding 
process as the treasurer for 
College Democrats too. She is 
also a part of the Internal Development Committee, which 
educates Senators about recent happenings and brings 
them together as a cohesive 
body, according to Karras.
Karras is a lighting tech 
area head for ScotchnSoda, 
vice president of membership 
development and programming for Panhellenic, a sister 
of Alpha Chi Omega, president of College Democrats, 
and a general member of AB 
Tech, Spring Carnival Committee, and Carnegie Tech 
Radio Club.
Karras took an unusual 
road to becoming involved in 
Student Senate. 
She was originally a writein candidate for the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology after 
her friends voted for her. 
A write-in candidate is 
not printed on the ballot, 
but can be handwritten onto 
it by voters. 
I stuck with it because I 
realized it was something that 
I thought was very important 
because you need people who 
are passionate about serving 
our campus and who care that 
... all organizations are being 
served to the best of their ability, Karras said.
SBVPF candidates
Elena Karras
Todd Medema/Junior Photographer
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
Junior economics major 
Matthew Greenberg is running for student body vice 
president for ?nance (SBVPF) 
on a platform of making the 
budgeting process more ef?-
cient through a two-step plan.
As SBVPF, Greenberg 
would ?rst implement a key 
performance indicator (KPI) 
to evaluate the impact that an 
organization has on the campus community, according to 
his platform. 
Greenberg said the KPI 
would be indicative of the 
organizations performance 
during the current and previous academic year. 
At present, organizations 
are evaluated by the JFC during the budgeting process 
mainly by their performance 
in the previous academic year 
and the word of organization 
members.
The biggest problem with 
the funding committee as of 
right now is that you cant 
judge an organization on 
what theyre doing this year 
and how theyre improving 
or not improving, Greenberg 
said.
Greenberg said he would 
require JFC representatives 
to go to the biggest events  
and possibly a few minor ones 
 for organizations that they 
represent, in order to more directly see the impact the organizations have on the campus 
during the current year.
Greenberg is also proposing to reform the JFC representative selection process so 
there are two selection periods  one in the spring and 
one in the fall. 
According to his platform, 
Greenberg would establish an 
early-decision type process to 
choose JFC representatives. 
During the spring, [Representatives] who have a 
good reputation and who 
didnt do a bad job would 
have the option to retake their 
seat the next year, Greenberg 
said. Students who were not 
previously representatives 
would also be able to apply 
for positions at the same time, 
according to Greenberg.
If positions remained open 
after the spring selection, 
Greenberg said there would 
be a fall selection similar to 
the selection that occurs now. 
That way the best [representatives] will still be there, will 
be trained, and will have the 
ability to use this KPI to judge 
performance and to judge impact of the organizations and 
... be able to teach the new 
[representatives] how to do 
that, Greenberg said.
Greenberg is the CEO of 
his own company, Greenberg 
& Bao Portfolio Strategies, 
LLC, which identi?es market 
inef?ciencies. 
He is a brother of Pi Kappa 
Alpha and was the chair of 
the fourth annual Matthew 
Tembo Memorial Soccer 
Tournament. According to a 
university news release, Pi 
Kappa Alpha hosts this soccer tournament each year 
to be a positive force in the 
prevention, treatment, education, and research of substance abuse and alcoholism. 
Greenberg is also a member 
of the Undergraduate Finance 
Association.
When asked what he hopes 
to accomplish for himself 
through the position, Greenberg said, I think it will help 
me to ?ne-tune my skills both 
as a CEO and just generally 
dealing with money on a daily 
basis. 
He said that the position 
would also give him good experience in leading a group of 
people to develop an ef?cient 
budget. Greenberg stressed 
the in?uence that the SBVPF 
has to improve student life. 
Especially at a school 
where everyones working so 
hard, its important that you 
get the best quality of life that 
you can have here ... and the 
VPF certainly has the ability to impact that, Greenberg 
said.
Matthew Greenberg
Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Divya Kothandapani
Courtesy of Divya Kothandapani
Fun Facts: 
Karras can solve a Rubiks cube in under two minutes.
Karras has beaten Doge2048.
Fun Facts: 
Greenberg been to 18 different countries and all ?ve Disney 
theme parks, and was in Spain for the World Cup when they 
won in 2010. 
Greenberg is also a die-hard fan of New York sports teams, 
especially the Rangers and the Yankees. 
Fun Facts:
Kothandapani loves dancing and has been a part of the 
bhangra team.
Kothandapani started a classical Indian dance team this year.
Kothandapani used to be shy and reserved when she ?rst came 
to Carnegie Mellon; now loves making new friends and being 
involved on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  March 24, 2014
SKYE TOOR
Special to The Tartan
Google Glass, a set of 
glasses that will stream an 
augmented reality pertinent 
to ones surroundings has recently sparked a new debate 
about the way technology affects our lives. Augmented reality is a perfectly clear view 
of the world that is supplemented, or augmented, by 
computer-generated sensory 
input. Its the idea that we can 
stay forever plugged in to the 
Internet and our surroundings. Wearing Glass will provide us with a constant stream 
of information about where 
were headed and with whom 
were talking. Programmed to 
get smarter over time about 
the types of information it 
provides us, the glasses respond to movements in the 
eyes, rather than physical 
controls.
While the capabilities 
of Glass all sound advantageous, one of the questions 
that Google still hasnt been 
able to answer about the 
device is how much it will 
distract users. Until the technology improves, the biggest 
danger with Glass and other 
types of augmented reality 
is that those wearing them 
have to constantly focus and 
re-focus their eyes to see 
both the world around them 
and the text on their screen. 
For example, wearing Glass 
while driving, although helpful from a navigation perspective, could be incredibly 
dangerous because drivers 
will be focusing on reading 
directions from Google Maps 
instead of on the road.
Perhaps just as important of a question is that of 
privacy. Do we really want 
people knowing where we 
are at all times? Checking in 
on Facebook is a conscious 
decision we make; theres no 
automatic feature that will 
post where we are at all times. 
With Glass, theres a constant 
record of where you go and 
what you do. Glass has a camera feature, where you can 
take pictures and videos of 
whatever you want. If someone pulls out their cell phone, 
those around them can see 
what theyre doing, but Glass 
users can take pictures or videos without anyone knowing.
How private will pictures 
and videos be? And will law 
enforcement or the NSA ever 
have access to pictures taken 
by Glass users that might be 
evidence of criminal activity? 
Do we really want to be talking to someone who is wearing a device that can tell what 
kind of mood we are in or instantly pull up our Facebook 
page? On the other hand, 
Glass could make strides socially for people with autism 
or prosopagnosia, a disorder 
that causes a person to have 
dif?culty recognizing faces.
When Apples Siri was ?rst 
released, it was anticipated by 
Forbes to be one of the most 
potent and in?uential technologies ever released, but 
after only a few months it fell 
completely out of favor. The 
frenzy over Glass may also 
be completely forgotten in a 
few years. Augmented reality 
prompts us to consider what 
we lose socially to technology.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of last weeks discussion on augmented reality.
PUGWASH COLUMNAugmented reality can be both useful and dangerous
YOON HEE HA
Special to The Tartan
With a constant demand 
for cleaner energy sources 
as technology advances, one 
alternative that has been receiving a lot of attention in 
recent years is electric cars. It 
has been a goal among many 
researchers to cut the cost of 
batteries in electric cars so 
that the vehicles can become 
a competitive alternative to 
the traditional engine-operated cars.
In 2010, researchers at 
the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) developed a 
wireless charging technology called Shaped Magnetic 
Field in Resonance (SMFIR). 
This new method of charging is compatible with online 
electric vehicles (OLEVs) 
and could allow electric cars 
to collect electricity from a 
road-embedded charging 
system, making electric cars 
a much more viable form of 
transportation.
In his 2011 paper titled 
Application of SMFIR Technology to Future Urban 
Transportation, professor 
of the Graduate School for 
Green Transportation at 
KAIST In-Soo Suh states that 
SMFIR technology enables 
the electric vehicle to be 
charged while the vehicle is 
in motion as opposed to being charged from traditional 
charging stations. Power 
cables embedded in the road 
create magnetic ?uxes, which 
can be collected by OLEVs to 
fuel them.
The charging mechanism 
on the road gets activated 
only when OLEVs run over 
it, so other vehicles will not 
be hindered by the magnetic 
?eld. When an OLEV hovers 
over the charging mechanism, a power inverter installed on the road lets current ?ow. Then the pickup 
device  made of a ferrite 
core and coiled with copper 
wires  installed underneath the vehicle collects 
the magnetic ?ux. After the 
induced current of collected 
magnetic ?ux is converted 
into DC power, the Power 
Distribution Unit (PDU) then 
distributes it to the appropriate sectors within the vehicle. 
The harvested electricity 
can be either used to operate 
the electric motor or can be 
stored in a battery for emergency purposes. This battery 
is one-third to one-?fth the 
size of the battery for traditional electric vehicles because OLEV does not require 
as much storage space. Also, 
vehicles can be charged either when they are running 
or when they are stationary. 
According to KAIST, only 5 to 
15 percent of the road needs 
to have charging devices implanted in order for the vehicles to safely operate.
Suhs paper further explains the processes of wireless power transfer systems: 
the supply mechanism embedded on the road operates by having multiple segments of powered cable loops 
with various lengths. Each 
HOW THINGS WORK
SMFIR allows for 
charging in motion
Wastewater recycled to make energy
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
According to the U.S. Geological Survey, a toilet ?ush 
uses anywhere from one to 
four gallons of water. What 
happens to all of this water? Does it all go to waste? 
Last Friday, Mark van Loosdrecht, professor of environmental biotechnology at the 
Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, gave 
a lecture on Waste-Based 
Biore?neries.
Van Loosdrecht, an Association of Environmental 
Engineering and Science 
Professors (AEESP) Foundation 201314 distinguished 
lecturer, has been a professor at the Delft University of 
Technology for over 25 years, 
and is well known for his research in bio?lm and granular 
sludge systems for wastewater treatment.
The lecture, sponsored 
in part by the civil and environmental engineering department at the University 
of Pittsburgh, discussed how 
wastewater is recycled into 
viable components, such as 
chemicals and cellulose ?bers.
The original purpose of 
wastewater treatment, van 
Loosdrecht said, was sanitation. In the 1970s, however, 
many people became more 
environmentally aware and 
realized the potential of reusing wastewater and the components of biological waste 
to produce chemicals or even 
energy.
Today we call it resource 
recovery, when we get things 
out of the water to use again, 
like phosphates, van Loosdrecht said. In the future, 
we think we could really integrate this into production 
cycles  integrate it into the 
chemical industry.
Recently, the focus of 
wastewater recovery research 
has shifted to the production 
of energy from the associated biological waste. This 
research, however, is dif?cult to do on a large scale 
in an economicallyand 
energy-ef?cient manner.
Van Loosdrecht began 
with a discussion of common 
resource recovery practices, 
such as recycling cellulose ?-
bers from the toilet paper in 
wastewater. 
Although these ?bers can 
be recycled into new toilet 
paper, van Loosdrecht said, 
it would be dif?cult to ?nd a 
market for this method. Instead, the ?bers  which are 
separated from wastewater 
with sieves  are used as a 
component of road asphalt, 
where the length and quality 
of the ?bers is irrelevant.
Van Loosdrecht discussed 
many of the important chemical products that can be extracted from wastewater, and 
the existing processes for such 
extraction.
Polyhydroxyalkanoates  
better known as PHAs  for 
example, can be used for a variety of applications ranging 
from making plastics to paper 
to probiotics in ?sh food. PHA 
is produced by many of the 
bacteria found in the organic 
waste that can be separated 
from waste water.
Its an interesting compound  PHA  because almost every bacteria can make 
it. Its almost more interesting 
to study which bacteria cant 
make it, van Loosdrecht said. 
It is stored inside the cell 
granules, so you can easily extract it by just separating the 
cells, by centrifuge or other 
methods.
Van Loosdrecht helped develop a new photosynthesis 
and feeding cycle that helps 
such bacteria grow and produce more PHA.
Another important byproduct of wastewater is alginates. 
Alginates, which are typically 
extracted from seaweed, are 
used widely in the food, textile, and pharmaceutical industries. Van Loosdrecht was 
also part of the research that 
led to the Anammox reactor. 
Anammox, which is short for 
anaerobic ammonium oxidation, was a process discovered 
in the late 1990s that converts 
nitrite and ammonium  two 
byproducts of wastewater re?nement  into nitrogen gas.
Van Loosdrecht received 
his masters and Ph.D. from 
Wageningen University, and 
is a member of the Netherlands Academy of Technology 
and Innovation, as well as the 
Royal Netherlands Academy 
of Arts and Sciences.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Van Loosdrecht gave a lecture on wastewater treatment last Friday.
See ELECTRIC, A7

---------------------------------------------------

March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
Last November, astrophysicist Alan H. Guth  Victor F. 
Weisskopf professor of physics and a Margaret MacVicar 
fellow at the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology  discussed the theory of in?ation 
in his lecture In?ationary 
Cosmology: Is Our Universe 
Part of a Multiverse at Carnegie Mellon. The presence of 
such a world-renowned physicist on campus caused quite a 
?urry of excitement, but now 
Guths lecture has an added 
signi?cance: Evidence for 
the theory of in?ation, which 
Guth ?rst proposed in 1980, 
was ?nally con?rmed this past 
Monday.
When our universe was 
approximately 380,000 years 
old, the Cosmic Microwave 
Background (CMB) came into 
existence. In its earliest stages, 
long before the formation of 
stars and planets, the universe was a very hot and dense 
place, where protons and electrons moved around freely in 
plasma. 
As the universe expanded 
and cooled, protons were able 
to combine with electrons to 
form hydrogen and photons 
began to decouple from the 
matter, leaving behind the 
CMB  a faint radiation echo 
of the Big Bang that permeates 
the entire universe.
However, according to 
physicsworld.com, the CMB 
showed that the universe is 
homogeneous, ?at, and isotropic, which is contrary to 
the highly curved and heterogeneous structure suggested 
by the Big Bang Theory. It 
was this disagreement which 
prompted Guth to propose the 
theory of in?ation.
In?ation is the idea that 
fractions of a second after 
the Big Bang  within 10-34 
seconds  the universe underwent a period of exponential expansion in which it 
increased at a rate faster than 
the speed of light. According 
to PBS, the universe expanded 
by at least a factor of 1025 during this minuscule period of 
time. This rapid expansion accounts for the smooth and ?at 
appearance of the CMB.
So how can an event that 
occurred 13.8 billion years 
ago be con?rmed? According to CNN Tech, there are 
tiny ripples in the fabric of 
spacetime called quantum 
?uctuations that were blown 
up during in?ation, launching 
gravitational waves that can 
be observed in the CMB today. 
As the waves pass through 
spacetime, they will squeeze 
the fabric in one direction 
and stretch it in another, creating two types of polarization known as E-modes and 
B-modes.
While E-modes have 
already been detected in the 
CMB, they can also be a result 
of other mechanisms. This 
past Monday, however, the 
Background Imaging of Cosmic Extragalactic Polarization 
telescope (BICEP2), which 
scans the sky from the south 
pole, ?nally detected B-mode 
polarization.
According to universetoday.
com, other teams will continue 
to verify these results from 
their own measurements in 
the next year. The con?rmation of the theory of in?ation 
not only validates the origin 
of the structure of the universe, but also predicts the 
existence of a multiverse  an 
entire collection of multiple 
universes.
segment has two cable lines 
with currents of opposite 
directions, which creates a 
dense magnetic ?ux in between the cables. 
When the sensor on the 
road detects an OLEV, the 
powered cable loops begin 
the supply process. The ferrite structure within the segment determines the shape 
of the magnetic ?eld, which 
in?uences the density of the 
magnetic ?ux. 
Thus, depending on the 
vehicle pro?le  such as its 
speed and acceleration  on 
certain parts of the road, design decisions of the supply 
mechanism (such as where 
to install it or how long the 
segment should be) can be 
altered for the optimum ef?ciency.
Currently, OLEVs are being tested in many regions of 
Korea. 
Since March 2010, OLEV 
trams in Seoul Grand Park in 
South Korea have been used 
to transport visitors to various destinations around the 
park. Also, since last July, 
OLEV buses have been tested 
as a public transportation 
system for Gumi-Si in Korea. 
OLEVs are an optimal ?t for 
public transportation systems like buses and trains, 
as those vehicles operate on 
predetermined tracks, allowing for easier and more ef?cient installation of power 
cables.
Detection of B-mode polarization con?rms in?ation theory
HOW THINGS WORK
Charging on roads
ELECTRIC, from A6
Climate change, Lyme disease linked
Researchers from the Public Health Agency of Canada 
in Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec 
have discovered evidence that 
global warming could promote the spread of Lyme disease. They discovered that the 
spread of mild temperatures 
between 1971 and 2010 corresponded with the distribution 
of the deer tick Ixodes scapularis, which carries the bacteria that causes Lyme disease. 
Over the past few decades, the 
prevalence of Lyme disease 
has greatly increased. The researchers suggest that if the 
current climate projections 
for now until 2070 hold true, 
Lyme disease will continue to 
spread.
Source: Science News
U.S. and Mexico restore ecosystem
The United States and 
Mexico have agreed to open 
the ?oodgates of the Morelos 
Dam near Yuma County, Ariz. 
on Mar. 23 for almost two 
months in an attempt to restore the Colorado River Delta 
ecosystem. 
The ecosystem has withered from lack of water since 
the repeated damming of the 
Colorado River. Researchers, 
who have studied the river 
channel to determine the optimal time for restoration, chose 
the date. They hope that the 
deluge will create sandbars 
that will become a habitat 
for new seedlings, ?ush salt 
from the soil, and replenish 
groundwater stores. 
Source: Science Insider
Calcium to prevent alcoholism relapse
Researchers at the Central 
Institute of Mental Health and 
the University of Heidelberg 
in Mannheim, Germany have 
gathered data that suggests 
that the calcium ions present 
in acamprosate, a drug approved as treatment for alcoholism, could be the active ingredient, not the acamprosate 
itself. The team previously 
determined that abstinence 
from alcohol raises glutamate 
levels, which makes a person 
more likely to relapse into 
alcoholism. The teams new 
research suggests that the calcium present in the drug reduces glutamate levels, which 
suggests that acamprosate itself is inactive.
Source: Science News
Brain distinguishes real, fake laughs
Researchers from Royal 
Holloway, University of London have discovered that the 
brain is able to distinguish 
between sincere and fake 
laughter and responds differently based on its sincerity. 
The team monitored the brain 
responses of participants 
who listened to people produce genuine laughter from 
watching funny videos, as 
well as forced laughter. The 
researchers found that the 
participants brains had very 
different responses to genuine laughter versus forced 
laughter.
Source: Science Daily
Compiled By
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
SCITECH BRIEFS
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Gravitational waves created by in?ation can be detected by the observation of B-mode polarization, which was seen for the ?rst time by BICEP2 this past Monday. 

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  March 24, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 31
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Being good soldier is no excuse for assault
Banning bossy encourages girls as leaders
Block housing gives some unfair advantages 
On March 11, the United States 
Senate managed to unanimously 
approve a resolution. The 970 
vote was in favor of a bill that made 
numerous changes to the militarys 
sexual assault policies, most notably getting rid of the good soldier 
defense in cases of alleged sexual 
assault.
Under the current system, a soldiers good performance and pristine 
military record may be presented 
in his or her defense when charged 
with sexual assault of a fellow member of the military. Senator Claire 
McCaskill described the good soldier defense as the ridiculous notion that how well one ?ies a plane 
should have anything to do with 
whether they committed a crime.
As Major Franklin Rosenblatt 
wrote in a 2010 journal article published in The Army Lawyer quoted by 
Time Magazine, In application, character witnesses are commonly called 
to testify about their willingness to 
deploy with an accused. Other allowable good military character 
testimony includes that an accused 
is dedicated to being a good drill instructor, lawful, easygoing, dependable, and well liked. With so many 
traits to choose from that are permissible and admissible, nearly anyone 
can qualify as a `good soldier. 
Evidence had increasingly come 
to light regarding the number of unreported, unprosecuted sexual assault incidences in the United States 
military, and removing this defense 
is an excellent step toward properly 
punishing those who commit sexual 
assault.
This bill now has to pass the United States House of Representatives. 
Many hope that the measure will be 
passed in an effort to promote the 
prosecution and prevention of military sexual assault. Doing away with 
the absurd good soldier defense is 
certainly a step in the right direction.
Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg recently launched the Ban 
Bossy Campaign with Lean In and 
the Girl Scouts of America. The campaign seeks to stop people from calling young girls bossy, as the term is 
inherently gendered and always pejorative, and discourages the cultivation of leadership qualities in young 
girls. Notable participants include 
former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Beyonc, as well as 
Jane Lynch. 
Some critics of Ban Bossy claim 
that the campaign itself is ridiculous  that banning language is useless and does not effect change, that 
women should just deal with being 
called bossy, and that young girls 
shouldnt be bossy anyway. 
These particular criticisms miss 
the true purpose of the campaign. 
Ban Bossy seeks to make people understand that language has impact, 
most especially on young children, 
and that the cultural practice of discouraging young girls from pursuing 
leadership starts very early in childrens lives. The eradication of the 
word bossy will not end sexism in 
the United States; its just one word, 
and grown, professional women are 
not the target of the campaign. 
The point of the campaign is that 
we use the word bossy to shame 
female children when they express 
themselves. Parents and teachers 
should curtail controlling or overly 
aggressive behavior in children while 
raising them to be functional adults, 
but when boys exhibit such tendencies, the usual response is something 
along the lines of boys will be boys. 
By this mindset, when boys act on 
aggression, they are manifesting a 
natural instinct. 
When girls exhibit aggression, 
they are behaving in a way that is 
somehow shameful and to be discouraged. 
This cultural tendency both encourages and excuses aggression in 
boys that can easily become violence 
in men, and teaches girls to censor 
themselves  to be smaller, quieter, 
and more compliant. This gendered 
disparity is what the Ban Bossy Campaign is trying to right.
Ban Bossy has an added importance for young girls of color in the 
United State as they grow up and 
begin to take leadership roles. While 
adult white women are at a disadvantage in the labor market, adult 
women of color are at an even greater one. 
White women earn 77 cents for 
every dollar white men make, on 
average. Black women earn 64 cents 
for every dollar, and Latina women earn 55 cents, according to the 
Center for American Progress. The 
myriad of ways in which sexism and 
racism intersect in the United States 
means that young women of color 
need even more support in their development as young leaders. 
Its true that banning the word 
bossy itself will not have much 
cultural effect; but the campaign is 
important and necessary because it 
seeks to make people think about the 
way they use language, and all the 
implications that words can carry. 
In response to student demand, 
Housing and Dining Services will 
now offer block housing in Morewood Gardens for students choosing to live with a group of six to 12 
friends or peers.
Housing and Dining Services 
choice to offer block housing in 
Morewood Gardens provides students looking to remain with their 
friends an option in a central location on campus, but the process must 
be altered in future years to accommodate students choosing to participate in general housing selection. 
The option for block housing in 
Morewood Gardens is a welcome 
addition in a move to offer students 
a wider variety of choice during the 
housing selection process. 
The Tartan also appreciates that 
Housing and Dining Services took 
student demand into account when 
making the decision to offer block 
housing in a dorm-style location. 
Previously, students could only 
choose block housing in Webster, 
Fairfax, Neville, Shady Oak, and 
Shirley Apartments, which are all 
off-campus and apartment-style.
As Housing and Dining Services 
revisits block housing for the 2015-16 
room selection process. However, 
the process should be altered further 
to take into account the incentives 
that offering block housing in a wider range of locations could create. 
Currently, students could choose 
block housing because they receive 
priority for room selection over those 
participating in general room selection. While the option of block housing bene?ts students who are able 
to ?nd a group of friends to form a 
block with, the system could be detrimental to students who are unable 
to do so. 
Block housing has the potential 
to force students who choose to live 
with a random roommate or roommates into rooms left over after 
block housing selection. Offering 
block housing in a dorm known as a 
central building for upperclassmen 
could severely limit the choices of 
upperclassmen to obtain the housing 
they want as they compete with student blocks.
As Housing and Dining Services 
continues to improve the room selection process, they should consider 
altering the time at which students 
choose block housing, so that those 
participating in general room selection can compete. 
For example, for next year, blocks 
could choose a number in the general housing selection process or they 
could be limited to certain ?oors of 
dorm-style locations to provide other 
students the opportunity to obtain 
their preferred housing. Otherwise, 
these students have much fewer 
options to choose from in room 
selection.
JUSTIN MCGOWN 
Take a moment and think of your 
biggest complaint about the United 
States. If youre like me, our penchant for intervening in the affairs 
of other nations is probably near the 
top of the list. A close second place 
in the race for worst thing about 
the States might belong to the unrestrained corporate greed  at the 
detriment of employees, consumers, and the environment  which 
is either supported or unopposed by 
the government. The maltreatment 
of ethnic minorities and the LGBT 
community by both individuals and 
institutions is also a front-runner.
The list goes on. From government surveillance to widespread 
corruption of both law enforcement and bureaucracy, its pretty 
easy to see that theres a lot wrong 
with the United States of America. 
As such, a degree of cynicism and 
suspicion is an unsurprising and rational response to the actions of our 
government. 
So when Vladimir Putin and his 
government decries United States 
and European Union (EU) statements condemning the Russian intervention in Crimea by claiming 
the pot is calling the kettle black, 
one has to admit he has a point.
But that does not mean the kettle isnt black. Apart from gun laws 
that line up with what many liberals would like to see in the United 
States, almost any issue one might 
take with America is not only present, but likely more pronounced in 
Russia. 
While the attempts by certain 
states to pass laws legalizing discrimination against homosexuals in 
the name of religious liberty are 
a frightening step backward that 
we need to acknowledge and ?ght 
against, here in the United States we 
have the ability to denounce these 
laws as morally repugnant. 
In Russia, such vocal opposition 
would be illegal, as would even saying that homosexuality is not a form 
of perversion in any forum where 
a minor might overhear. While the 
Olympics were taking place there 
was little controversy, since foreigners at Sochi were exempt from 
Russias anti-gay propaganda laws, 
but doing so at other times or other 
places would lead to deportation for 
foreigners or jail time for locals.
While the United States government has little direct control over 
the countrys media, most television 
and print in Russia is controlled by 
the government. The handful of independent news and media organizations must ration out their criticism, lest they attract the ire of the 
Kremlin and have their assets seized 
and gifted to one of the oligarchs 
who run the massive, formerly stateowned corporations inherited from 
the Soviet Union.
For the sake of LGBT rights and 
press freedom alone, Russian annexation of Crimea should be opposed, or else another 10,000 square 
miles of the planet might be subject 
to brutal repression and gag laws. 
Russian media would counter this 
argument by rightly pointing to the 
United Statess habit of propping 
up repressive regimes around the 
world; Americas misadventures in 
illegal invasion need to be conceded, 
particularly in Iraq. Regardless of 
the justi?cation or the end result, 
breaching another countrys sovereignty is illegal and does not be?t a 
nation that considers itself a world 
leader, which is something Russia 
has not failed to point out.
Of course, if you believe RT  a 
Kremlin-funded English news TV 
outlet  or other Russian media outlets, Russia hasnt put a single soldier 
on the ground in Crimea. The heavily armed soldiers carrying AK-74s, 
standard issue assault ri?es for Russian infantry; wearing Russian fatigues and body armor bought in a 
shop, Putin asserted in a public address; and driving Russian military 
vehicles with Russian identi?cation 
plates are Crimean self-defense 
forces. Crimean forces who, for 
some reason, speak with Russian accents and have admitted on camera 
that they are Russian soldiers.
Compare the troops at the Belbek Air?eld standoff  where 300 
Ukrainian servicemen and their families marched unarmed on their own 
base and demanded to talk to an of?cer after warning shots were ?red 
 and the image reminiscent of the 
Maiden protesters who ousted former President Yanukovych, which 
RT is trying to advance now.
If you, like me, are opposed to any 
aspect of the conduct of the United 
States or any other Western power, 
you should be opposed to Russias 
indefensible lies, deceit, and aggression. People who live in glass houses 
shouldnt throw stones, but theres 
more than one all-window home on 
this block.
Justin McGown (jmcgown@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
U.S. hypocrisy does not nullify Russian abuses
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Gordon Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine 
Huang, Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya 
Malik, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
Michelle Wan/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
XIYU WANG 
Over the last few years, it seems 
like the housing market has ?nally 
rebounded from the last real estate 
crisis. As Mother Jones reports, housing prices in some areas have been 
rising as much as 20 percent annually. However, the homeownership 
rate is still dropping. If less people 
are buying houses and becoming 
homeowners, then why are prices 
increasing?
But you see, my friend, that corporations are people too, and multiple homeownership among some 
of the largest ?nancial corporations 
has soared. Wall Street ?rms, such 
as the private equity ?rm Blackstone, have been buying scores of 
foreclosed single family homes and 
renting them out. Armed with deep 
corporate pockets and the ability 
to pay upfront in cash, these ?rms 
are able to outbid individual buyers 
and own as many as one in every 11 
homes in some areas, according to 
bloomberg.com.
Furthermore, Blackstone and its 
competitors have begun selling securities backed by rental payments 
from the properties they have purchased, which  considering Wall 
Streets last foray into the real estate 
market  should raise some alarms. 
Heres a sequel that no one wants 
to see: from the same people who 
brought you the smash hit movie of 
2008, Real Estate Crisis: Subprime 
Meltdown, here comes the blockbuster event of the summer: Real Estate Crisis 2: Rental Fever! The single 
largest question, as elaborated upon 
in a credit analysis from Standard & 
Poor, is how Blackstone and other 
companies will manage the vast 
number of single-family homes it has 
acquired to avoid disruptions to cash 
?ow. Unlike apartment buildings, 
single-family homes require more individualized care and are dispersed 
geographically, making maintenance incredibly dif?cult. Horror 
stories have already emerged detailing rental companies mismanagement. In one case, a company simply 
painted over the mold in response to 
a tenants complaint of mold on the 
walls, The Huf?ngton Post reports.
It is also unclear how these companies will ensure that their houses 
are consistently leased and that their 
tenants consistently pay. According 
to the same Mother Jones article, 
Blackstone expects that 95 percent 
of its homes will be occupied at all 
times, each with an average monthly 
rent of around $1,300. These expectations may be overly ambitious for 
single-family rentals, and, therefore, 
they would need to be revised signi?cantly in the case of an economic 
downturn. Of course, the activities of these rental companies will 
need to be watched carefully, but it 
is questionable whether regulatory 
agencies will do anything about it. 
The story of the mold on the walls is 
a disturbingly apt metaphor for the 
state of American ?nancial regulation over the last few decades. The 
DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act, which was 
supposed to provide more stringent 
regulation of the big banks after the 
2008 crisis, has largely remained unimplemented, according to USA Today. This is especially true in regards 
to its two most important proposals: 
ending too-big-to-fail ?rms and banning proprietary trading.
While a housing bubble in itself 
may not be a bad thing, a housing 
bubble backed by unregulated, risky 
trading is a toxic combination that 
could once again implode the United 
States economy and, even worse, 
leave scores of people homeless 
without even an apartment to rent. 
The United States needs to push for 
stronger ?nancial regulation before 
events play out like they did in 2008.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
The Tartan is watching the 2014 NCAA basketball tournament come to a head. So we asked,
What do you think of March Madness?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
2014 will be year of smart watches
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Last year, Pebble, one of the ?rst 
smartwatches truly compatible with 
iOS and Android devices, was released via Kickstarter crowdsourcing. While it has been a somewhat 
successful product, it has only managed to sell around a few hundred 
thousand units and has not yet 
reached mainstream level. Despite 
the fact that Best Buy and other technology chains now carry it, those 
outside of the most tech-savvy group 
of young people do not seem to have 
been convinced yet that they need a 
smart watch.
However, the status of smart 
watches is about to change. 2014 will 
be the year of smart watches. Last 
week, Google announced that it will 
?nally be making a serious entrance 
into the market with Android Wear 
 a minimal version of the Android 
operating system created specially 
for watches, which allows voice control, noti?cations at a glance, and 
support for a wide array of health 
monitoring devices.
Additionally, Motorola announced the summer release of one 
of the ?rst devices to support this 
newly adapted operating system: the 
Moto 360. Motorola took an interesting approach to the watchs design, 
abandoning the rectangular form 
factor of previous smart watches in 
favor of a circular design resembling 
traditional watches. Motorola focused as much on the design as the 
specs and has ?nally created something that will provide people with a 
familiar, attractive design.
Google has of?cially entered the 
market, and consumers and analysts 
are anticipating an Apple iWatch to 
be released before long. Over the 
past year, Apple has hired numerous health specialists, who are likely 
working on some kind of wearable 
?tness device. Last week, renderings 
of a Healthbook app  including 
real-time monitoring of various vitals such as heart rate, oxygen saturation, blood pressure, and more  
were also leaked by 9to5Mac.
As Digital Trends suggests, the 
iWatch will likely provide data 
for this application  controlled 
through Siri  and carry many features similar to Android Wear. The 
iWatch, as well as Android Wear 
devices, will not attempt to replace 
current smartphones, but to supplement them. These devices will provide a minimal always-on display 
of noti?cations, events, and more, 
meaning that people will ?nally be 
able to keep their phones in their 
pockets and focus more on the people around them.
The arrival of mainstream smart 
watches represents a change in lifestyle, in which technology becomes 
more continuously integrated into 
our lives. Instead of constantly 
reaching for our phones and taking 
time out of our lives to monitor noti?cations and events through various apps, we will always be able to 
obtain a given moments most important information with a simple 
glance at our wrists.
Its ironic to think that new technology may allow us to become more 
sociable and ?t, instead of the usual 
opposite result. The fact that we will 
be able to simply glance at our noti?cations, like people have glanced 
at watches for centuries, means that 
we will spend less time in the digital world and more time in the real 
world, while staying connected simultaneously. 
Because smart watches provide 
useful features and are now more 
similar to traditional watches that 
are already mainstream, people will 
soon be lining the stores to get their 
own.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Wall Street to blow new housing bubble
Obamas prospects poor in coming Senate election 
Govind Warrier
Economics
Junior
Im a fan! Im rooting for 
Kentucky.
Michael Murphy
Computer Science
First-year
I think collegiate sports 
shouldnt be a business.
Samantha Ho
ChemE, EPP
First-year
March madness is a good way 
for people to bond.
Antonio Padilla 
ECE
First-year
My bracket is really good.
KYLE HENSON
Obamas presidency may as well 
have eight months left. Now even 
Nate Silver, former New York Times 
statistics whiz, is predicting that Republicans are more likely than not to 
win control of the Senate in 2014.
If that happens, President 
Obamas last two years will be a brutal struggle against Congress with 
little to show for the ?rst six years 
of his presidency but a stimulus of 
questionable ef?cacy and a healthcare act thats hurt more people 
than its helped.
Lets take a look at the races in 
2014. One must remember that Senate seats go up for election every six 
years, which means that the Senators up for re-election in this cycle 
are the same ones who won in 2008, 
a wave election year for Democrats. 
As a result, Democrats are defending 21 seats and Republicans are defending only 15. In a Senate where 
Democrats control 55 total seats and 
Republicans control the remaining 
45, Republicans only need to pick up 
six seats in 2014 to gain the majority.
Of the 36 seats up for election 
this year, some are totally safe, as 
popular incumbents are seeking 
re-election in states that generally 
vote for their party. John Cornyn 
(RTexas), a two-term incumbent, 
probably wont lose, just as threeterm incumbent Jack Reed (DR.I.), 
whose race is currently uncontested, 
wont lose.
Eliminating those seats leaves 
us with Democrats defending eight 
competitive seats and Republicans 
defending two  still not a pretty 
outlook for the presidents party, 
especially considering that Republicans are defending two seats in 
Georgia and Kentucky, two solidly 
Republican states.
Exacerbating this situation for 
Democrats is a retirement wave 
where many of their most popular 
incumbents are retiring from senatorship after serving multiple terms. 
Montana, a state that Mitt Romney 
carried by double digits in 2012, is 
losing veteran senator Max Baucus 
(DMont.), who has decided not to 
run in 2014, instead assuming the 
role of ambassador to China. Even 
though the fundamentals of a Senate election in Montana favor Republicans, a superstar candidate like 
Baucus whose name is well known 
and who polls exceptionally well, 
would make this a tough pickup for 
Republicans.
Without the bene?ts of incumbency to in?uence the election, two 
fresh names on the ballot will likely 
fall prey to the states fundamentals, 
which favor Republicans and the 
most statistically signi?cant factor in 
midterm elections: the presidents 
approval rating, which is hovering 
around a markedly low 43 percent.
Democrats have a similar situation in West Virginia, where Jay 
Rockefeller (DW.Va.) decided not 
to run for re-election, putting a state 
thats been hit the hardest by Democrats regulation on coal, safely in 
Republican territory. Add South Dakota to that list, and already Republicans are looking at three easy pickups, shifting the Senate landscape to 
52 Democrats and 48 Republicans.
The next wave of possible Republican pickups comes form a group of 
Senators in traditionally red states 
that Mitt Romney won in 2012. This 
is where Obamacare and the toxic 
political atmosphere for Democrats 
comes into play. Mark Pryor (D
Ark.), Kay Hagan (DN.C.), Mark 
Begich (DAla.), and Mary Landrieu 
(DLa.) are already fending off advertisements labeling them as the 
deciding vote for Obamacare. Recent polling puts their chances even 
with or slightly below their potential Republican competitors, as primaries arent over yet. However, as 
weve seen in every election, a partys candidates always suffer in polling during their primaries, so expect 
those four Senators races to sway a 
few additional points toward Republicans as primaries come to a close.
If Republicans pick up three of 
those four seats, theyve already 
won the majority and thats not even 
counting other potential pickups. 
Superstar Scott Brown (RMass.) 
just announced his candidacy in 
New Hampshire after moving there 
early this year, Carl Levin (DMich.) 
retired, and though Michigan is a 
traditionally liberal state, it is quite 
possible that Republicans will nominate a better candidate than Democrats and carry the race.
Additionally, Tom Harkin (D
Iowa) just retired, and a high-quality Republican candidate could put a 
state whose most famed newspaper, 
the Des Moines Register, ended 30-
plus years of endorsing Democrats 
to endorse Mitt Romney in 2012. 
Finally, Al Franken (DMinn.) won 
a highly controversial race in 2008, 
and barely walked away with the 
victory. Obama additionally only 
carried the state with 52 percent of 
the vote in 2012. Now that the landscape is much more toxic to Democrats, a Republican pickup is not out 
of the question.
So what happens if Republicans 
do pick up the Senate? Obama has 
had a great time being able to paint 
Republicans as obstructionists, as 
his agenda has been primarily opposed by a Republican majority in 
the House of Representatives, which 
polling concludes is likely to stick 
around in 2014. If Republicans take 
over the Senate, Obamas whole 
one half of one house is opposing 
my agenda narrative turns into 
one man against Congress.
If history is any guide, the American people generally dont like presidents that defy the will of Congress, 
as it stings of tyranny. Obamas 
agenda will be effectively dead, and 
hell be forced to comply with the 
will of an adversarial Congress, or 
be de?ned as an in?exible, imperialistic ideologue for abusing his veto 
power. Either way, Obamas days of 
creating and pushing an agenda are 
over, and the president whose candidacy marked the self-declared moment when the rise of the oceans 
began to slow, and our planet began 
to heal will be reduced to nothing 
more than a lame duck.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist
Avery Calkins
Economics
Senior
I dont care about it. I wasnt 
aware it was happening.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  March 24, 2014
UAA Sports Standings
Mens Basketball
Univ.Conf.All
Wash. (Mo.)140243
Emory95199
Chicago861510
NYU681610
CWRU681411
Brandeis591312
CMU4101114
Rochester 4101015
Womens Basketball
Univ.Conf.All
Wash. (Mo.)131243
NYU95206
Chicago951510
Brandeis771413
Rochester 681213
Emory59169
CWRU4101015
CMU3111213
Baseball
Univ.Conf.All
CWRU62133
Emory 62177
Wash. 44710
Brandeis2668
CMU2639
Rochester0000
Mens Tennis
Univ.ConfAll
Brandeis0053
CWRU0093
NYU0030
Chicago0054
Wash. 00112
CMU00125
Emory0094
Rochester0083
Womens Tennis
Univ.ConfAll
Emory00132
Wash. (Mo.)00103
Rochester0034
Brandeis0035
CWRU0054
Chicago0053
NYU0002
CMU00112
March Madness is upon us
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The ?rst week of March 
Madness may as well be a national holiday. Starting Thursday, there has been nonstop 
college basketball from noon 
until after midnight. Millions of hours of productivity go down the drain for the 
economy as every sports fan 
tries to ?nd an excuse to miss 
work and those poor souls 
stuck in a cubicle constantly 
check scores and their brackets. There are the discreet 
workers, as more brazen ones 
just watch the games with 
the NCAA website streaming 
every game for free, complete with a Boss Button 
that quickly pulls up a faux 
spreadsheet to give the allusion of being busy. Men are so 
desperate to get out of work to 
watch the games that vasectomies rise nearly a thousand 
percent the week leading up 
to the ?rst weekend as the 
forced seated recovery period 
is the perfect excuse to stay 
home and sit on the couch 
while watching the game.
The only redeeming factor for the economy is the 
massive upswell of gambling, 
through of?ce pools and Las 
Vegas sports bookies. March 
Madness is the perfect storm 
of gambling. The ?xed bracket, propensity for upsets, 
and near in?nite possibilities 
make it exciting for everyone 
from the college basketball 
a?cionado to the sports novice who chose their bracket 
based on mascot cuteness. 
The odds of a perfect bracket 
are so astronomically low that 
billionaire Warren Buffett was 
willing to offer a billion dollars to anyone on Yahoo with 
a perfect bracket. By the end 
of the second day, no one who 
entered the competition was 
left unscathed and only one 
bracket of the millions who 
entered via Yahoo was still 
perfect, but that only lasted 
through the next game the 
following day.
The magic of March Madness is the Cinderella. The 
low seeded, generally small 
conference team that no one 
outside of their alumni has 
ever heard from suddenly gets 
thrust into national spotlight 
with the improbable upset 
over the traditional power 
house. This year has been 
?lled with craziness; we have 
already guaranteed that at 
least one double digit seed 
will reach the elite eight, with 
10 seed Stanford and 11 seed 
Dayton set up to play in the 
Sweet Sixteen.
With the rise of the one 
and done ?rst-year, veteran 
mid-major teams  while 
generally having less raw 
talent, have the teamwork, 
leadership, and experience to 
beat the squads of blue-chip 
prospect mercenaries ?elded 
by the Kentuckys, Dukes and 
Kansases of the world. This 
paradigm shift, inspired by 
the change in the NBA draft 
eligibility rules  which force 
players to be one year out of 
high school before declaring 
for the draft  has dramatically increased the parity in 
the tournament, making it 
even more ridiculous.
Duke University, a national powerhouse, has now 
lost in the ?rst round two of 
the last three years to a 14 
and a 15 seed. Florida Gulf 
Coast University went from a 
15 seed to the sweet sixteen, 
making history in the process. 
The only holy ground is still 
the 1 versus 16 matchup, but 
that doesnt mean a 16 seed 
hasnt come close. The only 
thing about number one seeds 
anymore is their propensity 
for being upset in the second 
round instead of the ?rst.
The upset has become so 
common that the 5 versus 12 
matchup is universally known 
for its upset potential. Nearly 
every year, at least one 12 
seed advances in the tournament. This year, three of the 
four 12 seeds won their games 
with the fourth  North 
Carolina State University  
blowing a massive lead late 
in the second half and taking 
the game to overtime before 
?nally falling to the ?ve seed 
Saint Louis University.
As we progress into the 
sweet sixteen and beyond, 
the upsets should theoretically die down. Cinderellas 
carriage is supposed to turn 
into a pumpkin as the clock 
strikes midnight and the big 
boys are supposed to duke it 
out for the title. But the last 
few years, things have not 
been going according to plan, 
and this year seems no different. With George Mason 
University, Butler University, 
Virginia Commonwealth University (VCU) and Wichita 
State University all making 
?nal four runs as low seeds 
in the last eight years, the 
blue blood schools are consistently getting shown up. This 
year, traditional powerhouses 
Duke University, the University of North Carolina State 
University, Syracuse University, Ohio State University, 
Villanova University, and the 
University of Kansas, along 
with the new class of schools 
like VCU and Wichita State, 
which both received high bids 
given their recent success and 
lofty records, all got knocked 
out before the end of this ?rst 
weekend.
While March Madness has 
certainly gotten more exciting 
over the years, the quality of 
play has debatably declined 
with the decreased emphasis 
on team play and increased 
focus on raising draft stock 
for the June NBA draft. The 
college basketball purists may 
bemoan the degradation of 
their beloved sports, but I, for 
one, am thrilled at the prospect that the craziest three 
weeks in basketball is on the 
path to somehow becoming 
even more ridiculous.
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The nationally ranked 
Carnegie Mellon mens and 
womens tennis teams were 
both in action this past weekend against other highly 
ranked opponents.
Both teams took care of 
the lower ranked University 
of Mary Washington, but the 
mens team fell to the ?fthranked Johns Hopkins squad.
On Saturday, the eighthranked womens team traveled to Fredericksburg, Va. 
to face off against the 21st 
ranked Eagles. 
The Tartans continued 
their dominating season as 
they cruised to an easy 72 
victory.
Junior Angela Pratt and 
?rst-year Nicholle Torres, 
along with sophomores 
Brooke Tsu and Abbey Hamstra, jumped the Tartans out to 
an easy lead as they took two 
of the three doubles matches.
Carnegie Mellon then put 
the match away winning ?ve 
of six singles points, with Tsu 
winning without conceding a 
single game, 60, 60. 
The single Tartan loss 
came as Hamstra took the 
game to a third set, but was 
unable to pull out the victory as she fell 26, 62, 01 
(610). The 11th-ranked men 
also faced off against the 
17th-ranked Eagles, ultimately winning 63.
Junior Bryce Beisswanger 
and sophomore Yuvraj Kumar 
took the only Tartan doubles 
victory 86, but the singles 
play pushed Carnegie Mellon 
over the top.
With the exception of 
sophomore Abhishek Alla, all 
of the Tartans won their singles matches, although several required a third set to do so.
Sunday was a different 
story as the men faced ?fth 
-ranked Johns Hopkins. The 
Tartans repeated the start of 
Saturday as only one pair won 
their doubles match, although 
this time it was juniors Christian Heaney-Secord and Will 
Duncan winning 81.
The singles did not quite 
follow Saturdays script, as 
only two Tartans  HeaneySecord and ?rst-year Kenny 
Zheng won their matches 
by scores of 64, 46, 61, 
and 75, 64 respectively. 
First-year Kiril Kirkov was the 
only other player for Carnegie 
Mellon to put up much of a 
?ght as he made it to a third 
set before falling.
The Carnegie Mellon 
teams ?nd themselves on the 
lowerside of the UAA rankings, but have a chance to 
improve.
The mens tennis team will 
face off next against teams 
from Washington and Lee 
University on Saturday at 10 
a.m. at home.
The womens team will 
host at home as well; however, their matches will not 
begin until 1 p.m.
Tennis teams win and lose
Information found on www.uaa.rochester.edu/Association_Links/Standings.htm.

---------------------------------------------------

March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
Vandenburg runs for fourth place in NCAA championships
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
Junior Thomas Vandenberg represented Carnegie 
Mellon University at the 2014 
NCAA Indoor Division III 
Track and Field Championships this weekend, placing 
fourth in the 800-meter run. 
After just missing nationals 
for the past couple of years, 
making it this year was my 
number one goal, Vandenberg wrote via email.
Vandenberg was the only 
Tartan to qualify for the trip 
to Nebraska to face off against 
the best track and ?eld athletes in the country. 
Vandenberg quali?ed 11th 
out of 16 to make the event 
and was in the second heat of 
the preliminaries. While he 
did not ?nish in the top two 
of his Friday heat to guarantee his spot in the ?nals, his 
third place ?nals ?nish, as 
well as the third place overall 
time with a 1:51.77, was good 
enough to get him a spot.
I was really exicted to see 
how fast I ran on the ?rst day, 
Vandenberg wrote. Ive always been a competitive runner, so I knew if I raced against 
the top runners in the country, 
I would be able to race as fast 
as them.
On Saturday, the ?nals 
?eld was slower as a whole, 
but Vandenberg still shined. I 
had made nationals, so I had 
accomplished my goal, and 
running well at the meet was 
sort of the icing on the cake, 
he wrote. 
His time of 1:52.47 was 
good enough for his fourth 
place ?nish and netted Vandenberg the ?rst All-American 
honors of his college career. 
Vandenbergs ?nish singlehandedly placed Carnegie 
Mellon in a tie for 42nd in the 
team scores. This event marks 
the end of the indoor track and 
?eld season, but the outdoor 
season kicks off this weekend 
at the Washington and Lee 
Track and Field Carnival.
I took a couple of days 
off after nationals, but now 
Im back at it. My goals are 
de?nitely to qualify again, he 
said.
Wang was another top individual performer placing 17th 
in the 100 meter breaststroke, 
setting a school record and 
narrowly missing out on a ?-
nals spot.
The top performers for the 
Tartans were the 200- and 
400-meter medley relay teams 
which both set school records 
and earned honorary AllAmerican titles in the process. 
The 200-meter team, consisting of sophomore Kira Singhaus, Wang, Crews, and Phan 
placed 15th with a ?nals time 
of 1:45.68. The same athletes 
combined for a 14th place 
?nish in the 400-meter relay 
with a combined ?nals time of 
3:50.34.
Swimming and diving team ?nishes their season at NCAA
File photos by Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor and Jason Chen/Asst. Photo Editor
The womens swimming and diving team wrapped up their seasons this weekend with mixed results at the NCAA championships.
File photos by Jonathan Leung/Photo Editor
Junior Thomas Vandenberg placed fourth in the NCAA Indoor Division III Track and Field Championships this weekend, giving him the ?rst 
All-American honors of his college career.
SWIMMING, from A12

---------------------------------------------------

March 24, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A12
CARL 
GLAZER
Track and 
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
When people think of 
sports on campus, they often 
think of varsity sports. These 
sports take an extraordinary 
amount of time and talent, 
things not everyone at Carnegie Mellon may have when it 
comes to athletics. However, 
for those of us who are not cut 
out for varsity or club teams, 
there are intramural (IM) 
leagues.
With the end of spring 
break came the start of a new 
lineup of intramural sports. 
Intramurals for the mini 4 
semester include badminton 
doubles, indoor soccer, softball, kickball, tennis doubles, 
and golf.
One out of ?ve students 
participates in IM leagues, according to supervisor in athletics Colin Shaffer, a junior ethics, history and public policy 
and business administration 
double major. Participation 
numbers are constantly growing and we get a wide range 
of students, Shaffer said in 
an email. According to coordinator of intramural and club 
sports 
David 
Wiley, 
intramurals are designed so 
that you can go out and have 
fun while you play sports.
For those who do not have 
friends who participate in IM 
sports, a free agent system 
allows students to meet new 
people in the community 
while playing sports for free.
Carnegie Mellon Athletics 
provides a diverse offering of 
sports and activities through 
IM leagues. Some leagues are 
competitive, but all are open 
to any student regardless of 
talent level.
IM sports provide an opportunity for any student, 
no matter what their athletic 
background, to compete and 
to have fun, Shaffer said. 
Some of the leagues are more 
recreational, designed for students to hang out and have 
fun. Come championship 
time, though, Shaffer said, 
all of our sports are extremely competitive throughout the 
womens, [co-rec], mens [recreational], and mens competitive ?nals.
While athletes in varsity 
and club sports compete with 
students at other schools, IM 
competition remains entirely 
within the Carnegie Mellon 
community. IM leagues have 
various divisions based on the 
level of competition people 
are looking for. There are divisions for students who want to 
play with no base level of talent or experience, as well as 
competitive divisions.
Beyond different divisions, 
there are also a variety of activities. In addition to ?ve-on?ve basketball, there are IM 
leagues for dodgeball, inner 
tube water polo, and even a 
rock-paper-scissors tournament. Through these unique 
sports, the athletics department aims to introduce people 
to new experiences and make 
IM sports inclusive, according 
to Shaffer. Inner tube water 
polo is probably one of the 
most popular sports on campus simply because it is different, its fun, and literally anyone can sit in an inner tube for 
an hour and ?oat around with 
their friends, Shaffer said.
Its easy to get involved, 
said Wiley. Not only can students play with friends or as 
free agents, but the games are 
also refereed by members of 
the Carnegie Mellon community, who can be near the action without actually playing. 
IM sports are not limited to 
students; faculty or any other 
member of the Carnegie Mellon community can participate too.
With a range of activities 
designed for wide participation, IM leagues are a place 
where people can seek either 
competition or fun. Its a way 
to get out of the classroom 
and clear your mind, wrote 
Wiley in an email. An active 
mind cannot exist in an inactive body.
Intramurals an alternative to leagues
NISHANT RENIWAL
Junior Staffwriter
Coming off a spectacular 
February in which they went 
91, only losing to the Utah 
Jazz, expectations were high 
for the Miami Heat and superstar small forward LeBron James for the month of 
March. Last year, March was a 
good month for the Heat, who 
were in the middle of their 27-
game win streak. This streak 
helped them get the No. 1 
overall seed and home court 
advantage throughout the 
playoffs. 
However, the performance 
drop-off seen from the entire team over the course of 
the last 10 games has been 
shocking and has seen them 
fall three games behind the 
Indiana Pacers in the Eastern 
Conference. They have gone 
46 over that stretch while 
giving up an average of 102.6 
PPG, a number unusually high 
for this teams stingy defense. 
What has suddenly gone so 
wrong for the Heat?
The most obvious and important reason for this sudden drop in performance is 
the drastic failure in Jamess 
performance 
since the teams 107124 
loss against the Charlotte 
Bobcats on March 3. Over 
the next three games, James 
did not reach even 20 points 
and made only three jump 
shots. He has not been himself since that game, and with 
the exception of wins against 
the Washington Huskies and 
Cleveland Cavaliers, has shot 
nowhere near his season average of 57 percent.
It doesnt help that one of 
the best defensive players in 
the game isnt playing anywhere near his capability on 
that end. There were several 
defensive rotations where 
James seemed lost and did 
not track his man down  
de?nitely not the way to reestablish himself in the MVP 
race considering fellow small 
forward and MVP rival Kevin 
Durant is in the midst of a 
33-game streak of 25 or more 
points.
Another factor working 
against the Heat is the presence of too many 
talented yet underperforming role players. 
Shooting guard Ray Allen, 
one of the greatest shooters in NBA history, has been 
in a season-long slump and 
is having his worst shooting 
season statistically. Hes had 
nowhere near the impact he 
had on the Heats title charge 
last season. The same goes 
for small forward Shane Battier. More often than not, 
Battier has been played on 
larger power forwards for 
purely defensive purposes. 
05 shooting nights arent 
rare anymore; in fact, theyre 
becoming the norm. The Heat 
need their two premier perimeter shooters to be on top 
form to beat the Pacers or 
any possible contender in the 
loaded Western Conference. 
The likes of small forward Michael Beasley and center Greg 
Oden were supposed to be 
low-risk, high-reward moves, 
but both of them have been 
more of liabilities and have 
only displayed ?eeting 
moments to showcase 
the talent they truly 
possess.
The inconsistent 
play of the Heats 
other two superstars, 
forward-center Chris Bosh 
and guard Dwyane Wade, has 
also exacerbated the Heats 
situation. Wade looked to be 
in prime form until this recent stretch and it looked like 
he would be in optimal shape 
for the playoffs, but concerns 
about his knee are resurfacing, and he sat out on one 
night of back-to-backs again. 
Bosh had been on a hot streak 
recently, but his poor defense 
and lack of menacing presence in the 
paint or rim protection hurt the 
Heat against the 
likes of the San 
Antonio Spurs, 
Houston Rockets 
and the Denver 
Nuggets, who all 
exploited the freedom in the paint. 
The Big Three 
 Bosh, James, 
and Wade  came 
together so at least 
one of them could 
pick up the slack when 
other members were 
going through 
a slump, but 
when none 
of them are 
clicking, 
the Heat 
are in 
trouble.
SPORTS COMMENTARYMiami Heat feeling March sadness
Alison Chiu/Advertising Staff
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
On Saturday, the Carnegie 
Mellon womens swimming 
and diving team ?nished 
off their season at the 2014 
NCAA Swimming and Diving 
Championships in Indianapolis, Indiana. Collectively, the 
team placed 39th overall at 
the meet.
Senior Soleil Phan ?nished her collegiate career 
on a high note, swimming a 
season-best 52.58 seconds 
in the 100-yard freestyle on 
the way to a 27th place ?nish. Phan also teamed up 
for a 26th place ?nish in the 
400-yard freestyle relay with 
senior Megan Garvey, sophomore Felicia Wang, and ?rstyear Gillian Crews. The four 
women combined for a time 
of 3:35.05.
Season comes to a close for swimmers
See SWIMMING, A11
File photos by Celia Ludwinski
The womens swimming and diving team ?nCourtesy of Wikimedia Commons
Another factor working against 
the Heat is the presence 
of too many talented, yet 
underperforming role 

---------------------------------------------------

Greek Sing
The annual event entertains audiences 
while raising money for charity  B5
Faces of Work 
The Carnegie Mellon International Film 
Festival kicks off its eighth year  B8  
03.24.14 Volume 108, Issue 21
Duets
New botanical art exhibit in Hunt  B3
Grand Budpest Hotel
Latest Wes Anderson movie is quirky 
and charming as always  B7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out the weekly comics for a laugh.11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents The Wolf of Wall Street and 
Saving Mr. Banks. 
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Fabienne Hudson
8
45710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about crowded 
intimacy and post-break blues.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Duets
A new exhibition of botanical art opened in the 
Hunt Institute. 
3
Pretty Little Liars
The season four finale leaves viewers with 
more questions than answers.
4
Greek Sing
The annual philanthropic event took place on 
Saturday.
5
Grand Budapest
Wes Andersons new film, The Grand Budapest 
Hotel, is showing at the Manor Theatre.
7
Film Festival
The International Film Festival runs through 
April 5.
8
Veronica Mars
The short-lived TV show hits the big screen 
with a movie release. 
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that David Teppers first gift to 
Carnegie Mellon turns ten this week?
10
Puzzles
Take a break and work on a puzzle.13
Horoscopes
What do the stars have in store for you this 
week?
14
Calendar
Things to do around campus and the 
community.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 03.24.143
Exhibition premieres in Hunt
Duets presents harmonious pairings of botanical artwork
Did you know that theres a level of Hunt library 
beyond the fourth floor  a world of wonder, 
accessible only by elevator? No, its not the room 
made out of candy in Willy Wonkas Chocolate 
Factory; its the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation.
A valued resource for the study of North American 
flora, the institute boasts an impressive collection 
of environmental art that it showcases in two 
exhibitions every year. This years spring exhibition, 
Duets, opened last Thursday and couples botanical 
art with items created between the 16th and 21st 
centuries.
According to assistant curator of art Carrie Roy, 
Duets attempts to explore the history of botanical 
art through harmonious pairings. The exhibition 
is organized into displays of two works of botanical 
art next to each other. Often, the pairs of art are of 
the same subject, but are different in regard to style, 
technique, or methods.
There is a wide variety of artwork, from pencil 
sketches and watercolors to different forms of 
photography, and this diversity keeps the gallery 
interesting. Albert G. Richardss black-and-white 
radiograph (X-ray photograph), for example, reveals 
the inner architecture of a rose in full bloom and 
allows one to marvel at the complex nature of such a 
seemingly simple organism.
Beside each pairing is a description explaining why 
the two pieces were put together, and it is in these 
descriptions where the real meat and potatoes of 
Duets lies. Some are contrasts, others comparisons.
The subjects of the artwork range from beautiful, 
exotic flowers found only in the Amazon or other 
remote lands, to the average, everyday onion. 
Indeed, the pieces artists range as well from 
novices to masters. The pairing of the finely 
educated Raphael Henri-Charles Ghislains 
stunning watercolor of a Ranunculaceae plant with 
the untrained James Boltons soft, almost surreal 
watercolor of the same plant demonstrates the 
passion found in botanical art. Both of these men 
were driven by a love of the natural world that 
propelled them both to hone their observational 
skills, one for professional development and the 
other for simple pleasure.
According to Roy, Duets continues the Hunt 
Institutes long history of trying to showcase 
environmentally important issues. She continued 
that the exhibition gives digestible little bits of 
what were about and why this art is important. 
Duets certainly provides an appreciation for the field 
of botanical art, and many of the pieces are truly 
stunning and perfect for a quick study break while 
in Hunt Library. Duets will be on display through 
June 30 on the fifth floor of the library.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
Advice for awkward people
Dear Ryan and Matt,
My boyfriend is 
very outgoing, and 
he seems to know 
everybody. We cant 
go anywhere without 
running into someone 
that was on his floor 
his first year or who 
dated his best friend. 
When we get meals 
together, I expect 
them to be quiet, but 
they turn into social 
experiences that I 
dont want to be a part 
of. How do I tell his 
friends that hes with 
me right now, and can 
come play later?
Sincerely, 
Mingling Yeoman, 
Toddles Intimate 
Meaning-making 
Excursions
Dear MY-TIME,
Its nice to be with 
someone who knows 
everybody, but we 
understand your 
predicament. You might try 
talking to your boyfriend 
and letting him know that 
when you two are together, 
you expect it to be the two 
of you  together. You can 
also take the initiative to 
turn down requests to join 
his friends yourself, saying 
things like Wed be happy 
to join you another time.
If that doesnt work, you 
might have to resort 
to scare tactics. Make 
mention of discussing 
things couples need privacy 
for  like a breakup or an 
unexpected pregnancy.
Have you tried staying 
in?
Matt and Ryan
Dear Matt and Ryan,
Ugghhhhh its after 
spring break and I 
have no motivation 
to do any work. I just 
want to go back to 
the carefree days that 
last week provided. 
Why cant I go back? 
Why do I have to work 
again? Im feeling so 
listless and apathetic 
right now I dont even 
think I can fin
Dear  um  Sir or 
Madam,
The first week back from 
spring break is always 
the worst. Its not like the 
first week of school, when 
professors expect nothing 
and homeworks amount to 
nothing more than read the 
syllabus. But when you get 
back from break, its more 
like, Hope youve been 
hitting the books this past 
week, because heres three 
assignments and an exam 
 good luck. So, you have 
two options now, assuming 
you havent done any work 
at all this week. Hit the 
ground running next week, 
picking up the slack and 
getting on top of everything 
you should have done last 
week. Or, continue to be as 
apathetic as you want. But 
seriously  get your butt in 
gear. No ones saying you 
have to be productive all the 
time right now, and taking 
a break now and again is 
healthy. 
If life were like spring 
break forever, it wouldnt 
feel like spring break. And 
wed all probably be dead,
Ryan and Matt
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About crowded intimacy and post-break blues
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photagrapher
The Duets exhibition on the fifth floor of Hunt 
features artwork themed around plants. 
The exhibit contrasts between related pieces, 
allowing viewers a deeper insight into the subjects. 

---------------------------------------------------

4television
pillbox 03.24.14
This article contains spoilers for season four of Pretty 
Little Liars.
Last Tuesday, ABC Family aired the ?nale for season four 
of their hit television show, Pretty Little Liars. For a show 
with a storyline thats been moving slowly lately, the 
previews for the ?nale set huge expectations. 
A number of the clips featured a scene with the shows 
main characters brandishing a gun at the mysterious 
A, demanding this character to ?nally remove his 
or her mask and reveal As true identity. It gave the 
audience reason to believe that they might ?nally ?nd 
out who A is, and what really happened to Ali (Sasha 
Pieterse). As usual, however, Alis tell-all revealed few 
of the answers that viewers were looking for. Though 
the show generated a lot of buzz, with supposedly a 
record-breaking number of tweets, it did not live up to 
expectations.
Nevertheless, viewers were given some answers in the 
episode; after all, it was called A is for Answers. To 
recap, the four main characters  Aria (Lucy Hale), 
Emily (Shay Mitchell), Hanna (Ashley Benson), and 
Spencer (Troian Bellisario)  met their old friend Ali, 
who they ?nally found out was alive at the end of the last 
season. They were also able to hold a full conversation 
with her, which was another ?rst for the show. 
We learned that someone hit Ali with a rock the night 
that everyone thought she was killed, and thereafter she 
was buried alive by none other than her own mother. 
Ali was then pulled out of the ground by creepy Mrs. 
Grunwald (Meg Foster) and was convinced by Mona 
(Janel Parrish) to leave town and fake her own death. 
Meanwhile, another girl was buried in Alis grave and 
falsely identi?ed as Ali  a girl who was actually killed 
by Melissa (Torrey DeVitto), Spencers sister. It was 
somewhat unclear how that girl was killed, and why 
she was identi?ed as Ali. Adding to the drama, though 
somewhat unnecessarily, A shot Ezra (CMU alumni Ian 
Harding).
The shows writers continued the shows habit of 
generating more questions for whatever answers were 
given. One question that the show will de?nitely focus 
on in the upcoming season, premiering June 10, is why 
Alis mother was willing to bury her daughter. Who 
tried to kill Ali, and why is the would-be killers identity 
important enough for Alis mother to keep silent?
As for Ezra, most people know or expect that he will still 
be alive in the next season, especially since there are a 
lot of questions that he needs to answer. According to 
an interview, Harding revealed that there would be a 
love triangle between Aria, Ali, and Ezra next season. I 
predict that it will end well for Ezria fans, but no one 
can know for sure.
Other questions include the role that each character 
has in this show. Obviously the main characters have 
a purpose, but was CeCe Drake (Vanessa Ray) just 
placed on the show as a distraction or was she somehow 
involved? And what about Jason (Drew Van Acker), 
Wren (Julian Morris), and other random characters? 
It seems as though there were several storylines that 
started in the show, but then did not lead anywhere 
and had to come to a halt. It would be nice to see them 
attended to next season.
Despite the episodes ?aws, there were some positives 
as well, including the fashion seen on the show. While 
Pretty Little Liars is known for the fashionable out?ts put 
together for each character by costume designer Mandi 
Line, sometimes the out?ts can be hit-or-miss. This 
episode, however, did not disappoint, with the exception 
being Spencers weird sweater.
This episode began with the same scene in which the 
penultimate episode ended. It was dif?cult to really see 
what each character was wearing, but most noticeable 
were Arias colorful scarf, Hannas patterned leather 
jacket, Emilys leather jacket, and Spencers cutout 
turtleneck sweater (even the name doesnt sound 
appealing). A few scenes later, Alis white  sequined 
top  another fashion standout from this episode  
appeared when she went to the bar to meet Ezra.
The weirdest part of this episode  and the one thatll 
probably lead to the most questions  is the scene 
where Alis mother is seen being buried in a grave while 
still alive. Its obviously connected to the way Ali died, 
but still confusing, since Alis mother basically helped 
to kill Ali. Judging by the lack of answers given in this 
episode, well only have to wait a few more hundred 
episodes before we ?nally ?nd out who A is.
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Courtesy of JJ Duncan via Flickr
Aria (Lucy Hale), Hanna (Ashley Benson), and Emily 
(Shay Mitchel) are three of the four liars whose lives 
have been consumed by their hunt for A.
Pretty Little Liars season ?nale is a tease
ABC show promises answers after four seasons, but instead leaves more questions

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 03.24.145
Greek Sing showcases member talents
Performances ranged from Broadway-style professional productions to laid back skits
Greek Sing, Carnegie Mellons largest student-organized 
philanthropic event, took place last Saturday at Soldiers 
& Sailors Memorial Hall. The event raised over $90,000 
for The Childrens Institute, the organization that 
Greek Sing has partnered with the past four years and 
for which they have raised over $250,000 in total. The 
performances ranged from self-aware comic skits to 
professional and precise Broadway-style productions, 
but all were brimming with an energy and enthusiasm 
that was palpable throughout the auditorium.
The evening was broken into a singles category, one 
Greek organization performing alone; and a doubles 
category, a fraternity and a sorority performing together. 
The singles performances were much more relaxed 
and fun, with the precision and professionalism of the 
doubles all showing teams who came to win. The singles 
also contained much more original content  which 
helped add to the fun atmosphere  with the doubles 
almost exclusively adapting major musicals.
Standouts from the singles category included a hilarious 
musical adaptation of the hit television show, Archer, 
titled Sterling: The Musical, which ended up taking 
third place in the singles category. Featuring ?fth-year 
chemical engineering major Jason Kelso as the toosuave-for-his-own-good Archer, the production was 
true to the off-kilter comedic spirit of the show and was 
packed with hilarious punch lines and songs. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilons original show A Shrubs Life, 
which ended up taking home second place in the singles 
category, was equally entertaining, with botanical 
puns galore and a laid-back attitude that made it clear 
the cast was there to have fun. The energy permeated 
the auditorium, leading to many missed jokes due to 
overwhelming laughter.
The productions of the doubles category were packed 
with all sorts of shiny bells and whistles. The months of 
work that went into Greek Sing was evident in many of 
these performances, with complex choreography ripped 
right from Broadway and intricately designed sets and 
costumes. 
Standouts from this category included Pi Kappa Alpha 
and Kappa Alpha Theta performing a Carnegie Mellonthemed adaption of the hit 1950s musical Grease, for 
which they won second place. The production was 
incredibly engaging, with great dancing, costumes, and 
numerous Carnegie Mellon references  such as turning 
the greased lightning car into a buggy and a set that 
included a painted fence saying Spring Carnival 1959 
 that the audience loved. 
The most entertaining doubles performance, and the 
one that was awarded ?rst prize for the category, was 
Lambda Phi Epsilon and Alpha Kappa Delta Phis 
adaptation of the Disney musical Mulan. Featuring 
stunning costumes, a great set, energetic performances 
by all members of the cast, and most importantly, 
original jokes that were written into the script to give it 
the individual, fun spirit that many of the other doubles 
were lacking, the performance was delightful.
Greek Sing 2014 was another great installment of an 
event that raises an enormous amount of money for a 
worthy charity. Its also a great way for many members 
of the Greek community to show off the talents that 
many wouldnt expect them to have, such as singing 
and dancing or writing a great script. Hopefully next 
year there is a greater push for original content, for it is 
in these performances that the spirit of the event was its 
best.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Editors Note: Joey Peiser is a brother of Sigma Nu
 Courtesy of Fabienne Hudson
Sigma Phi Epsilon and Delta Gamma performed an adaption of the Elvis Presley jukebox musical, All Shook Up, 
that featured a number of the Kings best tunes and a Shakespearean-style cross dressing love story.
Greek Sing 2014 Results
Fraternity Philanthropy
1st: Sigma Phi Epsilon
2nd: Alpha Epsilon Pi
3rd: Delta Tau Delta
Sorority Philanthropy
1st: Delta Gamma (overall ?rst place)
2nd: Kappa Kappa Gamma 
3rd: Alpha Phi
Chairmans Choice 
Alpha Phi
Singles Competition
1st: Kappa Phi Lambda, Disneys Frozen
2nd: Sigma Alpha Epsilon, A Shrubs Life
3rd: Kappa Sigma, Sterling: The Musical
Doubles Competition
1st: Lambda Phi Epsilon & Alpha Kappa Delta Phi, 
Disneys Mulan.
2nd: Pi Kappa Alpha & Kappa Alpha Theta, Grease
3rd: Kappa Kappa Gamma & Delta Tau Delta, 
American Idiot
Honorable Mention: Sigma Chi & Delta Delta Delta, West 
Side Story

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

films
pillbox 03.24.147
Directed by the legendary Wes Anderson  whose 
works include Moonrise Kingdom, The Darjeeling 
Limited, and The Royal Tenenbaums  The Grand 
Budapest Hotel is a whimsical whirlwind through the 
adventuresome life of a concierge and his lobby boy. 
The movie is a bright and colorful spectacle set against 
the backdrop of Europe during the World Wars, which 
ensures an interesting and compelling duality to the ?lm 
and the story. 
The outrageous and sometimes hilarious plot is driven 
by its strong main characters, played by a cast that is 
fairly typical of a Wes Anderson ?lm: Gustave H (Ralph 
Fiennes), the concierge; Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori), 
his lobby boy; and a slew of eclectic and eccentric 
guests of the hotel, including characters played by 
Adrien Brody, Jude Law, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, and 
Tilda Swinton. 
The plot follows Gustave H, his role as the main 
concierge at the Grand Budapest Hotel  located in 
the ?ctional Republic of Zubrowka  and his journey 
to determine his innocence in the unfortunately-timed 
death of an elderly ex-lover, Madame D (Swinton). 
When it is discovered that Madame D has left 
Gustave a valuable painting, her family has Gustave 
imprisoned for her murder. Zero must help him ?rst 
escape, and then travel to a monastery to prove his 
innocence, all while being trailed by an assassin (Willem 
Dafoe).
Though the ?lm ends somewhat sadly and rather 
abruptly, the sense of whimsy and wonder is maintained 
through the colorful sets, costumes, and the fantastic 
acting. 
The star-studded cast serves as an added attraction 
rather than a support to carry the ?lm, and Revolori 
manages to make his major big-screen debut stand out 
even against the talented big names that accompany his 
performance. 
There is a particular brand of humor from which much 
of the ?lm draws its charm, evocative of an absurd 1930s 
madcap stage comedy. Its vintage, but a vintage that 
is so quirky that it feels as if it could be set in a parallel 
universe. 
Andersons writing and production talent marries 
perfectly with the absurd storylines that he borrows from 
writer Stefan Zweigs novels Beware of Pity and The 
Post-Of?ce Girl.
The ?lm contains many nods to Zweigs writing and 
even Zweig himself in the character The Author, played 
in the ?lms present by Tom Wilkinson and in ?ashbacks 
by Law. 
Physical humor, ridiculous situations, and just enough 
drama without going completely overboard are the 
perfect blend for this cast and Andersons signature 
style. 
Its hard to pinpoint exactly what it is about Andersons 
?lms that is so enjoyable for audiences  most of them 
become huge box of?ce successes, despite limited 
releases. Theyre quirky, unusual, and fun  but above 
all, theyre the ultimate escapist opportunity. 
The Grand Budapest Hotel is no exception: The colorful 
cast of characters, rollercoaster plot line, and unusual 
narrative structure and setup are sure to not only 
captivate viewers, but also take them along for a magical 
journey. 
The movie will show at The Manor Theatre in Squirrel 
Hill through Wednesday.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Grand Budapest Hotel is quirky, dramatic
Wes Andersons newest ?lm is a whimsical murder mystery with charming characters
Andie Park | Staffwriter
Martin Scorsese returns to make a ferocious ?lm about real-life ?gure Jordan Belfort 
and his life chock-full of debauchery and corruption while heading his brokerage 
?rm Stratton Oakmont. Warning: This movie isnt for the faint of heart. Think of 
Frozen  and then imagine the exact opposite of that. Leonardo DiCaprio gives the 
performance of a lifetime as a hysterically arrogant Belfort who is on top of the world 
with his millions, his gorgeous trophy wife, and his endless supply of drugs. Despite 
the movies raunchiness, Scorsese and DiCaprios collaboration provide a ?erce rush 
of energy and comedy that places it among the best ?lms of the year.
The Wolf of Wall Street
Thursday, March 27  10:30
Saturday, March 29  10:30
Saving Mr. Banks
Sunday, March 30  2
We can all recall our childhoods being ?lled with memories of Disney ?lms  but most 
of us dont know the struggle to bring those ?lms to the screen. After Walt Disneys 
(Tom Hanks) daughters beg him to make an adaptation of P.L. Traverss (Emma 
Thompson) Mary Poppins, he agrees to uphold his promise. When Disney reaches 
out to Travers, she is more than reluctant about selling her work into the moneymaking 
machine of Hollywood. Her stubbornness nearly derails the project and causes the 
production to stretch into 20 arduous years. Saving Mr. Banks is a captivating story 
that sheds light on the passion that both Disney and Travers had about the story of a 
magical nanny that they both wanted to share  although in completely different ways.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 03.24.1498
As of last Thursday, the eighth annual Carnegie Mellon 
International Film Festival is of?cially in full swing. 
Under this years theme of Faces of Work, the festival 
features a number of ?lms from around the globe that all 
focus on workers and, often, their struggle for a better 
life. The festival, which began last Thursday night with 
a screening of the Polish ?lm Walesa. Man of Hope and 
held its campus premiere on Friday with a screening of 
the documentary Shipbreakers, will continue through 
April 5. Most screenings will take place in McConomy 
Auditorium.
The festivals theme is in dedication to the life and 
work of in?uential Carnegie Mellon professor Paul 
Goodman, who passed away due to a stroke in early 
2012. At Carnegie Mellon, Goodman pushed to expand 
international university projects in technological and 
environmental research, especially in developing 
countries in Asia and South America. 
According to the festivals website, Goodman was an 
avid ?lmmaker who produced over 20 documentaries 
demonstrating how global development and 
technological expansion are changing the nature of 
workplace demographics and methods of production 
by highlighting the important but often overlooked 
work of individuals such as a nurse, a factory worker, 
a glass blower, a ?sherman, and a womens rowing 
team. Several of his works will be screened along with 
other ?lms over the course of the festival  including 
Shipbreakers, for which Goodman posthumously won 
the Best Producer of Documentary Film Award at the 
2014 Madrid International Film Festival.
Opening night Thursday at the Regent Square Theater 
included the screening Walesa. Man of Hope, directed 
by Andrzej Wajda. The ?lm tells the true story of Lech 
Walesa, a common shipyard electrician who becomes 
embroiled in the workers rights movement of Poland, 
eventually becoming the leader of the Polish trade union, 
Solidarity. In this position, Walesa was able to negotiate 
signi?cant concessions for workers from the communist 
regime. Walesa was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 
1983 for his efforts and was elected the ?rst president of 
Poland following its independence in 1989. 
The world of Walesa. Man of Hope is a vivid nightmare: 
a Soviet-bloc country where the police beat and arrest 
citizens on the ?imsiest suspicion and tanks roll 
through the streets. Indeed, when Walesa leaves home, 
he often hands his wife his watch and wedding band 
and instructs her to sell them if he doesnt come back. 
Interspersed with documentary footage of the actual 
Polish riots and demonstrations that took place over the 
course of the 1970s, the ?lm is a compelling narrative, 
focusing on Walesa as both an unlikely political leader 
 his talents for leadership coming not from books, but, 
as he says in the ?lm, from knowledge of Poland and 
its people  as well as a family man who struggles to 
provide for both the monetary and emotional welfare of 
his wife, Danuta, and their six children even when he 
is being paraded through the streets as a hero. Danuta 
Walesa was in attendance at the screening.
The ?lms handling of Walesas private life occasionally 
slips into a whitewashing of the beloved ?gure  
frequent verbal hints at the mans dirty secrets or ill 
treatment of his wife are never explored  and the toll 
his efforts have on his family, especially Danuta, are 
given a very surface-level treatment. The depiction of 
the public Walesa, however, is where the ?lm soars. 
One cant help but feel moved watching him lead the 
workers strikes. Walesa truly was a natural-born leader, 
and the ?lm perfectly captures that aspect of the man.
Before the ?lm, Danuta Walesa gave a brief introduction 
of the ?lm, in which she stated that [the ?lm] is more 
a creation of the director than a documentary ... in 
which you will be able to see the people struggling for 
their freedom. She also addressed what was surely 
on everyones mind: the obvious relation between the 
political struggle in Poland depicted in the ?lm and 
the current bloody revolution and ensuing political 
battles in another former Soviet nation, Ukraine. In a 
brief Q&A session after the ?lm, Danuta Walesa ?elded 
many questions regarding her husbands life and legacy 
and how it has shaped many of the recent protests 
against totalitarian governments. In response to an 
audience member who asked if there was a moment 
that she realized the Solidarity movement was big, she 
responded that she was only just coming to realize 
how big it was.
The festivals campus opening night on Friday featured 
a screening of the documentary Shipbreakers, directed 
by Ralph Vituccio, an instructor in the Entertainment 
Technology Center, and produced by Paul Goodman. 
The ?lm focuses on Indian migrant workers who 
dismantle decommissioned ships along the beaches 
of Alang, highlighting the terrible conditions in which 
the impoverished men perform this dangerous job. A 
panel discussion was held afterward with Vituccio, 
Shipbreakers cinematographer Tom Clancey, Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette assistant managing editor Mark Roth, and 
University of Pittsburgh professor of political science 
Michael Goodhart. University of Pittsburgh professor of 
global studies Roger Rouse served as moderator.
Keeping with the festivals theme, Shipbreakers details 
an industry that requires virtually no electric power, but 
runs almost exclusively on manual labor. Much of the 
work is performed using brute force  there are many 
instances of a hammer and chisel being put to work 
against steel and iron  and the lax enforcement of 
workers rights and environmental regulations makes the 
occupation a virtual death 
sentence. 
Carnegie Mellon ?lm festival examines global Faces of Work
Opening ?lms presents moving depictions of struggle for workers rights in Poland, conditions in ship-dismantling industry in India
The festivals theme, Faces of Work, honors 
late Carnegie Mellon professor and filmmaker 
Paul Goodman, whose work explored evolving 
demographics in the workplace.
Courtesy of Einhorn Design
by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor[]
While Alang is not the only site of this industry, virtually 
all privately-owned ships are dismantled in similar 
shipyards in developing countries such as Bangladesh 
and Pakistan.
During the panel, Vituccio said that many workers were 
reluctant to talk to us due to the risks involved with 
publicly denouncing the shipyards. Therefore, he said, 
each worker who did speak had incredible courage 
in basically putting his life on the line by speaking to 
people hed never see again.
The stories these workers tell are harrowing, to say the 
least. Among tales of men being crushed to death by 
falling steel, many of the workers complain of the smoke 
they are forced to breathe due to the lack of proper 
masks. Workers are largely unaware of the kinds of 
toxins to which they are exposed  many of them have 
been outlawed since the 1970s, but are still present in 
the ships being dismantled. Interviews with workers and 
managers reveal a large disparity in how the situation 
is viewed. One shipyard manager even insisted that 
because there were trees growing outside his of?ce, that 
meant there was no environmental problems. Greenery 
means no pollution, is how he put it. 
The conditions in Alang are contrasted with the same 
industry being performed in Brownsville, Texas, where 
Mexican migrant workers dismantle U.S. governmentowned ships according to strict environmental and 
safety standards. A chilling visual compared the workers 
in India wearing a simple cloth tied around their faces 
while workers in Texas performed the same task wearing 
a complete Hazmat suit and mask. 
While the ?lm made a good case that the practice of ship 
recycling should follow the strict regulations 
followed in the United States, 
Clancey 
pointed 
out in the 
panel that the wages paid were high for Mexico, but 
are extremely low by U.S. standards. He also mentioned 
that ships are only dismantled in such a highly regulated 
fashion in Texas because they are owned by the U.S. 
government and, therefore, have to be dismantled 
in that manner according to EPA regulations. They 
are forbidden from being sold to private shipyards in 
developing countries.
The two ?lms featured in the opening of Faces of Work 
are signs of good things to come in the festival. One 
thing is certain: Both ?lms leave one with a greater 
appreciation of working conditions in the United States. 
After witnessing men beaten to within inches of death 
for protesting for their right to collective bargaining, or a 
man working nearly 20-hour days breathing in hazardous 
chemicals, recent protests over the wages of McDonalds 
workers certainly lose some ?re. While certainly present, 
this effect, however, isnt the point of Faces of Work. 
Indeed, many Americans were in similar situations 
during our own Industrial Revolution. As Vituccio 
explained in his introduction to Shipbreakers, the goal 
of the ?lm was to focus on the burden of the common 
worker, whether that be a dockyard worker in China 
or a gas station attendant in New Jersey. The ?lms of 
Faces of Work demonstrate the past, present, and 
future struggles of men and women all around the world; 
celebrating their successes as well as mourning the 
Shipbreakers cinematographer Tom Clancey (center), makes a point at a panel discussion following the films 
screening Friday in McConomy Auditorium. Panel members are (from left) Mark Roth, Ralph Vituccio, Clancey, and 
Michael Goodhart, with moderator Roger Rouse at far right.
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
Upcoming screenings
The Cleaner 
(Peru, 2012) 
  Monday, 
March 24, 4 
p.m., Kresge 
Theater, Carlow 
University; 
Tuesday, March 
25, 7:30 p.m., 
McConomy 
Auditorium
Eat Sleep Die (Sweden, 2012)  Wednesday, March 
26, 7:15 p.m., McConomy
Master of the Universe (Germany/Austria, 2013)  
Thursday, March 27, 5 p.m., McConomy
Sofias Last Ambulance (Bulgaria/Germany/Croatia, 
2012)  Thursday, March 27, 7:15 p.m., McConomy
shortFACES Film Competition  Friday, March 28, 
7:15 p.m., Melwood Screening Room
Open City of Amereida (Chile/USA, 2013)  Friday, 
March 28, 9 p.m., Melwood Screening Room
GriGris (Chad/France, 2013)  Saturday, March 29, 6 
p.m., McConomy
Madame Presidenta: Why Not U.S.?Vamos 
Meninas! (USA/Brazil, 2013)  Wednesday, April 2, 7 
p.m., McConomy
Womens Day (Poland, 2012)  Thursday, April 3, 5 
p.m., McConomy
Trapped (Iran, 2012)  Thursday, April 3, 7 p.m., 
McConomy
At Berkeley (USA, 2013)  Friday, April 4, 4:30 p.m., 

---------------------------------------------------

10films
pillbox 03.24.14
A long time ago/We used to be friends/But I havent 
thought of you lately at all.
Never has the theme song to Veronica Mars ?t so 
well. On March 14, after seven years of waiting, the 
short-lived TV series made the leap to the silver 
screen.
After years of movie rumors ?oating around, creator 
Rob Thomas and much of the main cast announced 
a Kickstarter campaign to raise $2 million  the 
minimum needed to make the ?lm.
They reached that goal within 10 hours and almost 
tripled it in the 31 days the campaign ran. Over 
91,000 people donated a total of $5.7 million to see 
this movie made. The question now is whether or 
not it is a success.
The movie picks up nine years after the series ?nale. 
Veronica (Kristen Bell) has graduated from law 
school and is on her way to becoming a lawyer in a 
prestigious New York law ?rm. She hasnt worked 
a case since she transferred to Stanford University 
and left the town of Neptune, California, but that 
changes when pop star Bonnie DeVille (Andrea 
Estella) is murdered.
Logan Echolls (Jason Dohring), both Bonnie and 
Veronicas ex-boyfriend, is the number one suspect. 
Veronica heads back to Neptune to help her former 
love ?nd a lawyer, but stays to help clear his name 
and solve the case.
There is no doubt that this movie is a love story 
to the fans. Even minor characters from the series 
make an appearance, like friendly stoner Corny 
(Jonathan Chesner) and another of Veronicas exes, 
Leo DAmato (Max Green?eld).
The main characters that are present are more 
mature, but still have the personalities of their 
younger selves. Most characters careers arent 
really a surprise: High school basketball star Wallace 
Fennel (Percy Daggs III) is now a basketball coach, 
while computer hacker Mac (Tina Majorino) is 
working for a tech company.
Logans career, however, is a surprise and is best 
kept secret until you see the movie.
Jokes and references abound, from mentions of 
marshmallows, the affectionate nicknames for fans, 
to a reference to Veronica working for the FBI, a 
shout-out to the last-ditch effort by Thomas for a 
renewal.
In terms of story, though, the movie was a little 
weak. While it was nice to see old faces brought 
into the story, the sheer coincidence of all these 
people being connected in some way to this case is 
unbelievable.
The background story of Neptunes widespread 
police corruption was interesting, but the inclusion 
of Celeste Kane (Lisa Thornhill), the mother of one of 
Veronicas exes, for only a brief moment in a pivotal 
scene was a stretch that felt more like an excuse to 
have her there than actual plot development.
That being said, Veronica Mars is a wildly 
entertaining movie  for fans. Non-fans might 
?nd it interesting, but its so bogged down in show 
references and character history that they might ?nd 
themselves completely out of the loop.
The recap at the beginning of the movie gives a 
good brief overview of the series as a whole, but its 
hard to encompass three seasons of mysteries into 
two minutes.
One of the best things about the movie, besides 
the fact that its Veronica Mars, is the usage of 
real-life celebrities in cameos. The show was set 
in southern California, but never had the clout to 
bring in any bigger names. The movie makes good 
use of the stars connections, with appearances by 
Justin Long, Bells husband Dax Shepard, and James 
Franco.
Bottom line: Fans of the series will love it. Its 
everything you loved about the show: witty, smart, 
and heartfelt; theres just more of it.
Mairad Pettit | Personnel Manager 
Mars ?nally lands onscreen 
Veronica Mars delights old fans but puzzles new ones
Fans will love Veronica Marss (portrayed by Kristen 
Bell) reappearance onscreen in this film.
Courtesy of jmm via Flickr
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Did you know?
100years ago
March  26, 1914
The Ben Greet Players present As 
You Like It and A Midsummer Nights 
Dream at the Carnegie Music Hall. 
The proceeds of these performances 
were given to the School of Drama to 
establish a scholarship.
50years ago
March 25, 1964
A freshman at Carnegie Tech is 
penalized by the Student Court 
for possession of a car. At the 
time, freshmen and sophomores 
were prohibited from operating 
or possessing automobiles. The 
punishment was made more severe 
because of the students four parking 
fines.
25years ago
March 21, 1989
The Tartan publishes two extensive 
articles on student stress. The articles 
included topics such as signs of stress, 
side effects, and methods to combat 
stress.
10years ago
March 21, 2004
David A. Tepper and his wife Marlene 
donate $55 million to Carnegie 
Mellons School of Business, the 
largest donation CMU had received 
at the time. Because of this generous 
donation, the University renamed the 
GSIA to the Tepper School of Business.
5years ago
March 23, 2009
The mens and womens swimming 
teams compete in the NCAA Division 
III championships in Minneapolis, Minn. 
Sophomore Molly Evans breaks the 
school record she set the year before 
in the 500-yard freestyle, finishing with 
a time of 4:54.34.
1year ago
March 25, 2013
Greek organizations pass their fouryear philanthropy goal of $150,000 for 
the Childrens Institute. Instead they 
raise $171,000 in three years. 

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 03.24.1411
Tales of Procrastinators II by Nivetha KannanNeed Something Different by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
buttersafe@gmail.com  nkannan@andrew.cmu.eduwww.buttersafe.com 

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 01.30.12
Answers by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
Ruiner of Friendships by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com 

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 01.30.1213
Solutions from March 3
CrosswordTough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: Tough Difficulty Kakaru Puzzle: Tough Difficulty
Kakaru courtesy of www.krazydad.comMaze courtesy of www.knobelfieber.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.
Start from the top arrow and find your way out of the maze. 

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 01.30.12
 1. Red gem
 2. Dies ___
 3. Mission control gp.
 4. Like expressionless eyes
 5. Muesli morsel
 6. Church perch
 7. Al Jolsons real first name
 8. Arrogant
 9. Swiftness
10. Person with hives
11. Minus
12. ___ Rider starred Clint Eastwood
13. Dog-powered snow vehicle
18. Old Ford
22. Deceive
24. Steel girder
25. Recede
26. Indian chief
27. Muscat native
28. Descendant
30. Shipping magnate Onassis
32. Soothing
33. Excess fluid in an organ
34. Stormed
36. Most cunning
37. Lively Bohemian dance
39. Of angular form
40. Tampa Bay player, for short
42. In place of
45. Tranquil
46. Leave
48. Macho guys
50. ___ favor
51. Reddings genre
52. ___ Lisa
53. Oklahoma city
55. Skiers transport
56. Writer Wiesel
57. Strike out
60. Nabokov novel
61. Lush
62. Family card game
 1. Circular band
 5. October birthstones
10. European chain
14. Russian range
15. Greek fabulist
16. Burst of laughter
17. Unglazed stoneware
19. Wight or Man
20. Brewers need
21. Degraded
23. Star Wars letters
25. Born before, senior churchman
26. Optimistic
29. Infant
31. Roughage
35. Onetime Jeep mfr.
36. Balkan native
37. Spanish inn
38. Game resembling handball
40. Unlawful liquor
41. Assumed name
42. Completely filled
43. Marseille Mrs.
44. Pivot
45. Short stocking
46. Group of two
47. Doorkeeper
49. Big brute
51. Ore refinery
54. Made a choice
58. A Chaplin
59. Enough to register on a scale?
63. Single entity
64. ___ a high note
65. Racetrack boundary
66. Fill with cargo
67. Peachy!
68. It transforms carbon dioxide into oxygen
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Marriage is like a game of poker. You start with a pair and 
end with a full house.
taurus
april 20may 20
He who thinks only of number one must remember this 
number is next to nothing.
gemini
may 21june 21
Everyone has a photographic memory. Some people just 
dont have film.
cancer
june 22july 22
Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in getting up 
every time we do.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Opera is the only place where a guy gets stabbed and, 
instead of bleeding, he sings.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
When you know a thing, hold that you know it; and when 
you do not know a thing, allow that you do not know it. 
This is knowledge.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
What the superior man seeks in himself is what the small 
man seeks in others.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Recompense injury with justice, and recompense kindness 
with kindness.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Virtue is not left to stand alone. He who practices it will 
have neighbors.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Ignorance is the night of the mind, but a night without moon 
and star.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Dont drink and park. Accidents cause people.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Without an acquaintance with the rules of propriety, it is 
impossible for the character to be established.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 03.24.1415
MONDAY3.24.14
March Student Reading. Baker Hall 260. 7 p.m.
Student writers will read their works in the Gladys Schmitt 
Creative Writing Center for the March edition of the 
Creative Writing Student Reading series. There will be free 
food and drinks, along with a raf?e. Admission is free and 
open to the public.
TUESDAY3.25.14
Magic Man. The Underground. 7 p.m.
Rock/pop/electronic band Magic Man will be performing 
in the Underground. Admission is free. Their music is 
available at soundcloud.com/magicmansounds.
Nina Paley lecture. McConomy Auditorium. 5 p.m.
A celebrated animator and cartoonist, as well as an 
advocate of free culture and open access to expression, 
Nina Paley is the creator of the animated musical feature 
?lm Sita Sings the Blues, which combines the Indian 
epic Ramayana with 1920s pop recordings of Annette 
Hanshaw.
WEDNESDAY3.26.14 
School of Drama presents The Glass Menagerie. 
201 N. Braddock Ave. 8 p.m.
The classic Tennessee Williams play explores themes of 
memory and time, as well as how one young man must 
leave behind his past in order to de?ne the artist within 
himself. Tom Wing?eld lives out his dream of breaking 
away from his sister and mother, leaving them behind in 
order to embrace his future. Tickets range from $2529, 
with discounts available to Carnegie Mellon students.
THURSDAY3.27.14
Geoffrey Larson, conductor. Alumni Concert Hall. 8 
p.m.
Masters student in conducting Geoffery Larson will 
conduct Igor Stravinskys Chamber Concerto in E-?at 
Dumbarton Oaks and Arnold Schoenbergs Pierrot 
Lunaire. This event is free and open to the public.
FRIDAY3.28.14
PSO presents American Fanfare. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will be performing 
some of the most beloved works of American composers, 
including Appalachian Spring by Aaron Copland and 
George Gershwins An American in Paris, among others. 
Performances run through Sunday and tickets can be 
purchased at trustarts.culturualdistrict.org.
SATURDAY3.29.14
Hannah Whitehead, cello; Erberk Eryilmaz, piano. 
Mellon Institute Auditorium. 5 p.m.
Masters student in cello performance Hannah Whitehead 
will perform her required recital, featuring the music 
of Beethoven, Shostakovich, and Bach, with masters 
student in music composition Erberk Eryilmaz on piano. 
This event is free and open to the public.
SUNDAY3.30.14
Carnegie Mellon University Wind Ensemble. Soldiers 
and Sailors Memorial Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The ensemble will perform a multitude of pieces, including 
Felix Mendelssohns Overture for Wind Band in C 
Major, Op. 24, and James A. Beckels The Glass Bead 
Game, featuring soloist masters student in French horn 
performance Carrie Vertin. General admission is $5, but 
Carnegie Mellon students enter free with valid I.D.
ONGOING
Lossless. Miller Gallery. Through April 20. 
This exhibition of Carnegie Mellon School of Art master 
of ?ne arts candidates features large-scale installations, 
video, and generative sound art by artists Carl Bajandas, 
Oreen Cohen, and Yun Mi Her. Admission is free and 
open to the public.
Les Miserables. Byham Theater. Through April 6.
Presented by Pittsburgh Musical Theater, this beloved 
musical tells the heartwarming redemption story of Jean 
Valjean, set against the backdrop of the failed June 
Rebellion in Paris of 1832. Tickets start at $12.25 and 
can be purchased at trustarts.culturualdistrict.org.
RACE: Are We So Different? Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Through Oct. 27.
RACE: Are We So Different? is a nationally touring 
exhibition that explores the experience of living with race 
in America, using interactive multimedia components, 
photographs, iconic objects, and historical artifacts.
Porous Sediments. 707 Penn Gallery. Through April 13.
Artist Haylee Ebersoles installation features vaporous 
sculptural objects with surfaces suggestive of skin, soap, 
ice, and rock. This event is free and open to the public.
Dream Body. 709 Penn Gallery. Through April 13.
Local artist Blaine Siegel presents two video installations 
 the ?rst in?uenced by the infamous The Hanged 
Man Tarot card, and the second a split-image projection 
depicting scenes of a domestic life with one only slightly 
different than the other. This event is free and open to the 
public.
Rhythm and Bulbs. Phipps Conservatory. Through April 
20.
This years spring ?ower show combines music with 
Phippss collection of exotic ?owers and garden designs. 
From one room to the next, music genres switch from 
swing and big band to rock.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Feeling Depressed? Researchers at UPMC 
seek depressed individuals aged 1840 who 
are right-handed and not currently taking 
antidepressants. This study involves two 
possible visits including a lifetime psychiatric 
evaluation, questionnaires, and computer 
tasks. The computer tasks will be completed 
during an fMRI brain scan. Participants will be 
compensated. For more information, call 412-
624-5541 or email at gilchristd@upmc.edu.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 03.24.14
Abhinav Gautam |  Staff Photographer
The Carnegie Mellon Bhangra team practiced last Thursday night in 
the University Centers Activities Room to prepare for the Worlds 
Best Bhangra Crew competition in New Jersey over the weekend. 
They faced the Cornell Bhangra team, one of the top teams in the 
nation, in the Collegiate Collision division and unfortunately lost.
bhangra.

---------------------------------------------------

HOUSING GUIDE
Get the scoop on 2014 Room Selection!
Whats new this year [C3]
Room selection explained [C4]
2014 housing options [C6-C15]

---------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Whats new?Updates for this years room selection process, as well as a calendar of important 
dates and deadlines to remember as you make your housing choices.3
Room selection explainedAn overview of all you need to know about room selection, including descriptions 
of each phase of the room selection process.4
Housing guide 2013A listing of each housing option available through Carnegie Mellons room selection, 
including building overviews, location information, and amenities.613
Housing options mapThis years housing map, showing all housing options on campus, as well as those 
off campus in Oakland and Shadyside.16
Nearby neighborhoodsPittsburgh neighborhood reviews for housing, dining, shopping, and ease of 
transportation for those contemplating moving off campus.1415
HOUSING GUIDE 2014

---------------------------------------------------

03.24.14Housing Guide
Housing Calendar
March:
Thursday, March 6  Room selection application opens online for all phases at 
noon
Wednesday, March 12  RA, CA, SIH, and Mentor Housing License Agreements 
and Limitations forms due
Saturday, March 15  Rosters for Greek houses due
Tuesday, March 18  Deadline ot retain your current room due at noon
Wednesday, March 20  Deadline to retain current room ends at noon 
Thursday, March 20  Living Learning Communities offers are sent out (for 
Henderson Wellness and Sustainability House)
Wednesday, March 19  Pull-in and walk-in meetings
Thursday, March 20  Pull-in and walk-in meetings 
Friday, March 21  Pull-in and walk-in meetings
Friday, March 21  Block housing applilcations are due at noon
Wednesday, March 26  Block housing selection
Thursday, March 27  Block housing selection
Friday, March 28  Application for general room selection closes at noon
Friday, March 28  Block housing license agreement due at 5 p.m.
Friday, March 28  Room selection timeslots generated and distributed
Monday, March 31  General room selection begins
April:
Tuesday, April 1  General housing selection continues
Wednesday, April 2  General housing selection continues
Thursday, April 3  Extended housing selection 
Monday, April 7  Open cancellation period begins online
Friday, April 18  Deadline to cancel housing for full refund (online) by noon
May:
Friday, May 2  Deadline to cancel online for refund of housing charges only
Satruday, May 31  First-year housing application due
A complete calendar of room selection 201314 events and deadlines can be found 
at http://www.cmu.edu/housing/roomselection/timeline/.
Key room selection 2014 dates and deadlines
Whats New? 
Housing changes for the 2014 room selection process
New upperclassmen housing: 624 Clyde
Located across from Shady Oak apartments at 624 Clyde St., the new 624 Clyde 
house will contain 2834 apartments for off-campus living. Unlike other off-campus 
residences, 624 Clyde will house students with a global curiosity, according to the 
application  students who are committed to deepening their own intercultural 
competency, and who have an interest in developing a mutual understanding of their 
responsibilities to be active global citizens seeking to bring change to the world they 
can influence. The building will have a kitchen, study lounge, and three common 
rooms.
CPDC replaces rooms on West Wing 2nd Floor
Students will be unable to apply for housing for the second floor of West Wing because 
the space will soon hold the new Career and Professional Development Center (CPDC), 
which currently resides in the basement of the University Center. Likewise, students 
who currently live on the second floor of West Wing will have to move elsewhere for the 
fall semester, but will be given priority during Room Selection.
Morewood Gardens to offer block housing
This fall, Morewood Gardens will join off-campus locations in offering block housing for 
upperclassmen. For block housing, six to 12 students choose a block of apartments 
or rooms next to each other so that they may be in close contact. This option is popular for first-year students who enjoyed living with the people on their dorm floor, or for 
those who want to have better access to their closest friends. Other dorms that offer 
block housing include Webster, Fairfax, Neville, Shady Oak, and Shirley Apartments.
Fairfax Apartments not offering certain rooms
Rooms 218, 219, 319, 419, 519, 618, 619, 718, 719, 810, 819, and 919 will be unavailable 
as living spaces for the 201415 academic year, due to a need for ongoing maintenance, according to Housing and Dining Services. Students currently in these rooms 
will be given priority during room selection.
3

---------------------------------------------------

Room retention
Room retention, the first phase, is for students planning to retain their current room for 
the next school year. Although there are some exceptions, room retention is available 
to most upperclass students, except those in special-interest housing, a first-year 
dormitory, or an RA/CA room. First-year students are not eligible to retain their rooms, 
regardless of their room location. Students considering room retention should remember 
that once they retain, they cannot change or cancel their housing assignment until the 
open cancellation period begins.
Room with a retainer
Students retaining their rooms during the first phase are required to fill any vacancies 
in the room, suite, or apartment with pull-ins. In order to be pulled in to a room, 
students must be eligible to participate in room selection and must not have already 
selected an assignment for the school year.
General room selection
General room selection is the final phase of room selection. During this phase, students 
eligible for housing who havent participated in the preceding phases choose a room 
from the remaining spaces. Students planning to participate in general room selection 
must apply online. They are then given a random room selection timeslot.
RA/CA housing
RA/CA housing is only available for those students holding an RA or CA position during 
the 201415 school year. These students will not be eligible to participate in room 
selection, and will instead be assigned a room through the application and selection 
process carried out by the Office of Student Life.
Special-interest housing
Special-interest housing allows groups of students to apply for group housing centered 
around a certain interest or theme. Special-interest housing groups should consider 
how they plan to positively impact the larger residential community before completing 
the special-interest housing application process.
Block housing
The block housing phase of room selection allows groups of students to select a block 
of rooms near each other in one of the applicable dormitories. Students electing to 
apply for block housing must identify a group representative who will be responsible 
for setting up their block housing group on the housing application and will remain the 
main contact point between the group and Housing Services.
Gender-neutral housing
Gender-neutral housing, available in the Oakland Community Apartments, permits 
upperclass residents of different genders to reside in the same room.
Open assignments
Due to fluctuating availability in room assignments, some students are given an 
open assignment. This means that while they are guaranteed a room for the 201415 
academic year, they will not immediately know where that room will be located, or 
what style of room they will be assigned. After receiving an open assignment, students 
wait until they receive an offer for a room for the upcoming year. After receiving their 
offer, they can decline the offer and cancel their housing agreement within three days 
without penalty, even if the offer was made after the open cancellation period ends.
For more details about the room selection process, visit  
www.cmu.edu/housing/roomselection.
02.14.11Housing Guide403.24.14Housing Guide4
Room selection phases explained
Terms and technicalities to guide you through the process
Room selection offers students several options: room retention, room with a retainer (also known as a pull-in), general room selection, 
RA/CA housing, special-interest housing, block housing, gender-neutral housing, and open assignments.
Most students will participate in one of three room selection choices: room retention, room with a retainer, or general room selection. 
However, a wide variety of housing options is available to all students. Room selection begins on March 6, so all students returning next 
year should begin thinking about their housing plans for the 201415 school year.

---------------------------------------------------

03.24.14Housing Guide5
Housing options by room style
Prime Single
Prime Double
Prime Triple
Suite Single
Suite Double
Efficiency 
Apartments  
(2 occupants)
1-Bedroom 
Apartments
(2 occupants)
1-Bedroom 
Apartments
(3 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Apartments
(3 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Apartments
(4 occupants)
2-Bedroom 
Suites 
(3 occupants)
3-Bedroom 
Suites  
(3 occupants)
House 
(5 occupants)
Apartment 
(67 
occupants)
Henderson 
HouseXX
McGill HouseXX
Morewood 
GardensXXX
Resnik HouseXXX
Welch HouseXX
West WingXXX
Doherty 
ApartmentsXX
Fairfax 
ApartmentsXXX
Margaret 
Morrison Apts.X
Neville 
ApartmentsX
Roselawn 
HousesX
Shady Oak 
ApartmentsXXXX
Shirley 
ApartmentsX
Webster HallXXX
Returning students have a variety of housing options to choose from when participating in the 2014 room selection process. Residence halls offer rooms with either a community or 
semiprivate bathroom for upperclassmen. These buildings include Morewood Gardens, Henderson House, Resnik House, West Wing, Welch House, and McGill House.
Apartment buildings offer living arrangements in a variety of styles: efficiency, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, or suite. They are separated into two groups based on location.           
On-campus apartment buildings include Doherty Apartments, Margaret Morrison Apartments, Roselawn Houses, and Woodlawn Apartments. Oakland apartment buildings include 
Fairfax Apartments, Neville Apartments, Shady Oak Apartments, 624 Clyde house, Shirley Apartments, and Webster Hall.
624 Clyde 
houseX
Woodlawn 
ApartmentsXXX

---------------------------------------------------

6Housing Guide
03.24.14
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, next to McGill House
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 71 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: One per floor, and one main lounge on the first floor with a study lounge
Other amenities: The building has laundry facilities in the basement, adjacent to the 
television lounge.
BOSS HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, across from Boss and McGill Houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and standard triples 
in co-ed wings that each share a bathroom
Size: 239 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One in the basement
Lounges: TV lounge, study lounge, and recreation area
Other amenities: Lounges include music practice rooms and pool tables; 
laundry facilities include both washers and dryers.
DONNER HOUSE
FAST FACTS:
Location: On the corner of Forbes and Morewood Avenues, in front of Morewood 
Gardens
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime triples
Size: 209 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One adjacent to recreation areas
Lounges: Each of the seven floors have their own lounges
Other amenities: The building has lounges and laundry facilities on each floor.  
MOREWOOD E-TOWER
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, behind Boss and McGill houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime singles
Size: 167 residents (all male)
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One adjacent to recreation areas
Lounges: Recreation room
Other amenities: The building has a spacious TV and recreation lounge; laundry    
facilities include both washers and dryers.
HAMERSCHLAG HOUSE
FIRST-YEAR HOUSINGHOUSING GUIDE

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide703.24.14
FAST FACTS:
Location: 4700 Fifth Ave.
Styles of housing: Prime doubles and prime triples
Size: 150 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: Several lounges, including a piano lounge, exercise room, and club room
Other amenities: The Residence on Fifth has year-round heating and
air conditioning. Most students are currently living in triple rooms.
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, in front of Welch and Henderson  
houses
Styles of housing: Standard singles, standard doubles, and prime singles
Size: 88 residents (all male)
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One, on A level
Lounges: One on each floor, plus a large lounge on A level
Other amenities: Scobell House has laundry facilities on the ground floor. 
FAST FACTS:
Location: On Morewood Avenue, adjacent to Mudge House
Styles of housing: Standard doubles
Size: 254 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: A kitchen and private dining room on the first floor
Lounges: One lounge and one study room on each floor, plus several larger reading rooms and a 
recreation area on the first floor
Other amenities: Stever House is a LEED-certified building, designed and constructed to reduce 
or eliminate the negative impact of buildings on the environment. It also has air conditioning. 
STEVER HOUSE
RESIDENCE ON FIFTH
FAST FACTS:
Location: On the corner of Fifth and Morewood Avenues
Styles of housing: Prime singles, prime doubles, prime triples, prime quads, standard singles, 
standard doubles, and standard triples; one five-person apartment is available for specialinterest housing groups
Size: 308 residents
Room retention: No (first-years only)
Kitchens: One in C Towers basement and one in A Towers basement
Lounges: First floor contains a lounge, a study area, and a television room
Other amenities: Mudge House is a mansion originally built for the Mudge family of Pittsburgh. 
After its donation to the university, it was converted into a student housing location. 
MUDGE HOUSE
SCOBELL HOUSE

---------------------------------------------------

803.24.14Housing Guide
FAST FACTS
Location: On the corner of Forbes Avenue and Beeler Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (three students) and efficiencies (two students); a 
two-bedroom suite for special-interest housing
Size: About 150 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment and efficiency
Lounges: Study lounge, TV lounge
Other amenities: Lounges include a piano, pool table, and ping-pong table; laundry facilities include 
six washers and six dryers; exercise facilities include four cardio machines and dumbbells. 
DOHERTY APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS
Location: 4616 Fifth Ave., near the corner of Fifth Avenue and Craig Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (two students) and efficiency (two students); the 
Fairfax Annex has two-bedroom apartments (three students)
Size: 272 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment and efficiency
Lounges: Community room in basement with limited availability
Other amenities: Laundry room and aerobics room in the basement
FAIRFAX APARTMENTS
Located close to campus facilities, Doherty Apartments is a good option for oncampus housing. It is a three-minute walk to the Resnik Caf and 10 minutes from 
most classes. Doherty is a solid option for students who wish to have their own 
kitchen in an autonomous apartment style of living.
Doherty is divided into four separate towers, each headed by its own RA, who 
provides his or her residents with essentials: trash bags, paper towels, and, of 
course, toilet paper. Each tower consists of three ?oors and a basement.
As a community, there are weekly events to satisfy your sweet tooth and appropriate 
exercise programs to sweat off the days regret. However, due primarily to the tower 
layout of the building, making friends in Doherty can be more dif?cult than in other 
housing options. 
Doherty Apartments provides air conditioning only in its exercise room. However, the 
heating system was upgraded recently.
The rooms provide a mix of privacy and integration with roommates. The onebedroom triples include a bedroom for the three beds, a bathroom, and a living room 
with a kitchenette. The living room also has three study desks, a dining table, a couch, 
and a small loveseat. Two-person ef?ciencies are similar, though everything is located 
in a single room without some of the furniture.
In general, Doherty Apartments provides a decently-sized living area for those who 
seek autonomy in college life.
The Fairfax Apartments are an excellent transition for upperclassmen to living in 
off-campus housing. Once acquainted with back-alley shortcuts, its a quick 10-to-15-
minute walk to campus, and the buildings proximity to S. Craig Street, which houses 
many restaurants that are open late at night, make it appealing to many college 
students. 
Inside the individual apartments, every room is carpeted, except for the kitchen and 
bathroom, which have tiling. The walls, conveniently, are solid  a welcome change 
from the paper-thin dividers that separate rooms in some on-campus housing. Fairfax 
is also relatively quiet, although every now and then, a group of happy, shouting 
people may break the silence. The rooms are furnished and come prepared with 
beds, tables, and drawers. The kitchen has a stove and refrigerator. Some units even 
have dishwashers. Air-conditioning and heating are included, as well.
Bus stops for the 54C, 71 series, and 75 are also located close to the buildings 
doors. 
Laundry payment may be the largest problem students have with Fairfax. Doing 
laundry requires that students ?rst buy a $5 card to pay for the machines. The card 
does not actually come with $5; students must input money manually, and the 
machine accepts only bills. 
In addition, Fairfaxs Internet connection uses Comcast rather than Carnegie Mellons 
Internet. Finally, the cost of living is one of the highest at Carnegie Mellon, but 
Fairfaxs amenities and its location may justify some of those expenses.
HOUSING GUIDEUPPERCLASSMEN HOUSING

---------------------------------------------------

903.24.14Housing Guide
FAST FACTS
Location: On Margaret Morrison Street, beside the Greek apartments
Styles of housing: Apartments  two-floor, two-bedroom (four students)
Size: 80 students
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment
Lounges: One near the storefronts
MARGARET MORRISON APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS
Location: The Hill  across the courtyard from Boss, in front of Hamerschlag
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 71 residents (female only)
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: One on the first floor
Lounges: One per floor, and one main lounge on the first floor with a study lounge
Other amenities: Laundry room
McGILL HOUSE
McGill, Carnegie Mellons only all-female dorm, offers residents prime doubles and 
singles arranged into suites. Each suite connects two doubles, or two doubles and 
one single. Rooms in McGill are small, so residents are often forced to loft their 
beds. However, the size of the rooms is offset by the convenience of semiprivate 
bathrooms in each suite.
McGill may be one of the smaller dorms, but residents social lives are certainly not 
limited. McGill offers a friendly environment, especially since residents can socialize 
in any of the individual ?oor lounges or in the large ?rst-?oor television room and 
study area. 
Weekly events bring together residents from both Boss and McGill and offer a 
reliable dose of fun and entertainment. Also, if residents tire of their own building, 
they are just a few steps away from other Hill residences.
McGills location on Margaret Morrison Street, like the other Hill residences, 
make it exceptionally convenient to a number of locations. Residents can catch 
art exhibitions, shows, and events at The Frame, Carnegie Mellons student-run art 
gallery on the corner of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street.
 A short walk across the street, residents can take advantage of the nearby campus 
dining locations, including Tartans Pavilion, the Carnegie Mellon Caf, and the Zebra 
Lounge. When campus food gets too monotonous, the food trucks parked nearby 
offer a great alternative to on-campus dining.
Margaret Morrison Apartments, located on the Hill, offers residents on-campus 
apartments. Each unit has two ?oors, with a lounge and kitchen on the ?rst ?oor and 
bedrooms and bathrooms either up or down a ?oor, depending on the apartment. All 
of the Maggie Mo apartments were redone in 2007, when they were re?tted with 
new furniture, appliances, and countertops.
The bedrooms are some of the biggest that you will ?nd on campus. Each apartment 
has a kitchen, which is nice for upperclassmen tired of campus food.
Additionally, each of the apartment units is separate from the others.
Residents also have access to laundry and exercise facilities, which are on the street 
level of Margaret Morrison Street.
Starting next academic year, Margaret Morrison appartments 131 and 132 will be a 
16-person Sustainability House which is accepting applications for residents.
Although the common areas may be a bit tight, Maggie Mo can offer residents the 
chance to have independence while still living on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Housing Guide1003.24.14
FAST FACTS
Location: Corner of Forbes and Morewood avenues
Styles of housing: Prime singles, prime doubles, prime triples; one six-person and one 10-person 
suite reserved for special-interest housing
Size: 455 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: Three, one on the second, fourth, and sixth floors
Lounges: Two lounges per floor
Other amenities: TV room, quiet study lounge, computer cluster, workout facility, recreation room, 
and two laundry facilities at opposite ends of the building
MOREWOOD GARDENS
FAST FACTS
Location: 617 Neville St., at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Neville Street
Styles of housing: Apartments (six-occupant apartment with single and double bedrooms)
Size: 24 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: In each apartment
Lounges: One common basement, four living rooms
NEVILLE APARTMENTS
While students of most residences have to pull on their shoes and head to campus 
to ?nd a hot meal or a working printer, Morewood Gardens residents need not leave 
the premises. Fully equipped with a computer cluster, a source of convenient (albeit 
greasy) food at The Underground, large laundry rooms, and a gym, this dorm is 
completely self-suf?cient. And whats more, its smack at the corner of Morewood 
and Forbes Avenues, only a couple of steps away from campus.
The dorms proximity to campus gives it a signi?cant edge over other residential 
areas. This factor maximizes your sleep time before early classes and also allows you 
to sprint back for your homework when you realize youve left it in your room. 
While both Stever and Mudge houses are located on Morewood Avenue, they 
normally house only ?rst-year students, making Morewood the only choice for older 
students who want to live in this area.
Morewoods plentiful lounges, including a few on each ?oor in addition to the larger 
study rooms and TV lounge on the ?rst ?oor, allow for frequent group gatherings. 
While this is a positive attribute for more social students, it means that several rooms 
on each ?oor are likely to experience frequent noise disturbances throughout the day 
and night.
When choosing a room in Morewood, its hit-or-miss. Some rooms are spacious and 
quiet, while others are small and loud. Its the luck of the draw, and sometimes you 
lose. Try to plan out which rooms look best from the ?oor plans online, and try to visit 
a room before committing. This will give you a good idea of what youre getting.
Morewood Gardens could be a great place to live, but before deciding to move in, 
check out the rooms ahead of time and ask the current residents about the noise 
situation, as some rooms are better than others.
The Neville Apartments are a living community through the Carnegie Mellon housing 
system, comprised of eight apartments that feature a mix of double and single 
bedrooms. Previously a co-op, Neville is now a traditional apartment living situation.
Neville apartments contains fully furnished bedrooms and living spaces, with each 
of the four apartments containing two bathrooms. Additionally, each apartment has 
a mix of single and double rooms, as well as two kitchens containing a stove and 
refrigerator. The basement contains laundry facilities and a student lounge, and 
students will have to purchase their Internet service from Comcast.
This switch back to apartment-styled housing is a new shift, as Neville had been 
run as a housing co-op since 2003. The co-op was created based on the tenets of 
sustainability and environmental awareness, activism, and equality in race, gender, 
and sexuality.
Residents who had applied for admission were encouraged to participate in various 
events hosted by the current members of the co-op during the room selection period. 
Neville Apartments will not be application-based housing, but can be selected 
through the standard university housing selection process.
During its time as a co-op, Neville had no RAs, instead using liaisons to the Housing 
and Student Life of?ces who would help the co-op solve housing problems. However, 
with the transition to apartments, this is unlikely to remain the case, as current 
Carnegie Mellon-af?liated apartments make use of the RA system.
What kind of community Neville will have after its co-op days will have to be seen, 
but the building and space will remain the same as it was.
HOUSING GUIDE

---------------------------------------------------

02.14.11Housing Guide11
FAST FACTS:
Location: Roselawn Terrace (off Margaret Morrison Street)
Styles of housing: Three-bedroom houses (one single, two doubles)
Size: Five students in each of 12 houses
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each house
Lounges: One in the common Margaret Morrison space and a living space in each house
ROSELAWN HOUSES
FAST FACTS:
Location: 601 Clyde Street
Styles of housing: Apartments  efficiency (two students), twoand three-bedroom 
apartments (three students)
Size: 82 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each apartment and one in the basement
Lounges: One in the basement with multiple couches and a big-screen TV
Other amenities: Street parking available and a spacious backyard with a grill
SHADY OAK APARTMENTS
Shady Oak, located on Clyde Street, contains apartments each boast a full kitchen 
complete with an electric stove and oven, as well as a dishwasher. The layouts vary 
greatly from apartment to apartment, with some having single bedrooms and no 
common living space, others having shared bedrooms with spacious living rooms, 
and others having a combination of the two. 
There is a lounge in the basement with numerous couches and a big-screen TV; this 
space is commonly used for watching sporting events and hosting study groups. 
Basic gym equipment is also located in the basement. For students who want to 
keep an active lifestyle and dont get enough of a workout from the 10-minute walk to 
campus, there are multiple treadmills, an elliptical trainer, and a weight-lifting station. 
The basement is also home to four washers and four dryers  not on the campus 
laundry network and accepting only quarters  and a large table for folding laundry.
Venture outside to ?nd a picnic table and charcoal grill that is always available. The 
backyard is large enough to play a game of Frisbee or football with friends. Across the 
street, there is a bus stop for the 71C, which can be taken to Downtown to watch a 
show or to East Liberty for a date at Target.
There are some drawbacks to living in Shady Oak. The plumbing has a tendency 
to malfunction, sometimes causing pipes to burst, leading to water shut-offs. The 
radiators have also been a cause for concern: They are set on a building-wide timer 
that can sometimes shut off in the middle of the night or be set on full blast on 
warmer days.
The Roselawn Terrace houses, located off Margaret Morrison Street, are some of the 
most sought-after housing options on campus. Roselawn is located on the edge of 
campus, providing students with a feeling of independence while still only having to 
walk less than 10 minutes to get to class. 
Each house, divided into a single-occupancy room and two double-occupancy rooms, 
holds ?ve students. The bedrooms are quite small  so small, in fact, that one of the 
doubles cant hold both residents desks. The upside to this is that the living area on 
the ?rst ?oor is spacious.
Living rooms have hardwood ?oors and comfortable furniture. Each dining room has 
a large table that seats six by a wall of windows. Kitchens have been completely 
re?nished with new cabinets and appliances. All the walls in the houses have been 
given a fresh coat of paint with vibrant accent colors.
One downside to the Roselawn houses is that residents no longer have access to 
the basement, cutting down on the storage space previously offered. The rooms also 
have closets that tend to be too small for most peoples wardrobes. 
In addition to the large living spaces offered in Roselawn, residents have access to 
the Margaret Morrison lounge and exercise room. All Roselawn residents are also 
on the campus laundry network, getting free laundry and access to laundromat-style 
dryers.
Another good thing about Roselawn houses is that, while there is more than enough 
living space, the cost of living in the house is less than the cost of living in some 
Oakland apartments.
Roselawn houses offer the feeling of living on your own, while still providing 
residents with the amenities and assistance of campus housing. If you dont care 
about the size of your bedroom, Roselawn is the place to live.
03.24.14Housing Guide11

---------------------------------------------------

03.24.14Housing Guide12
FAST FACTS
Location: 101/103 N. Dithridge St.
Styles of housing: Apartments  one-bedroom (two students) and two-bedroom (three students); 
prime singles
Size: 273 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: One in each apartment
Lounges: None, but each apartment has a living area
Other amenities: TV room, quiet study lounge, workout facility, recreation room, and two laundry 
facilities at opposite ends of the building
WEBSTER  HALL/SHIRLEY  APARTMENTS
FAST FACTS
Location: Behind Scobell House, on Margaret Morrison Street
Styles of housing: Prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 83 residents
Room retention: Yes, except for non-single rooms on the first floor
Kitchens: One on the lower level in each building
Lounges: TV lounges and study areas in both buildings
WELCH HOUSE/HENDERSON HOUSE
Webster Hall, located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and North Dithridge Street, is a 
popular off-campus residence offered by Carnegie Mellon. Webster is located in the 
heart of Oakland, about a 10-minute walk from campus. One of the ?rst stops on the 
Carnegie Mellon shuttle line, Webster offers easy access to the numerous restaurants, 
cafs, convenience stores, and shops located in the Oakland area.
Carnegie Mellon rents out one-bedroom apartments to two students, and twobedroom apartments to three students. The apartments are spacious and offer 
many bene?ts that dorm rooms do not, including a fully-furnished living room, two 
bathrooms, and a kitchen. For many students, this escape from typical dorm life is the 
basis of Websters appeal.
In addition to the spacious apartments, students also bene?t from the facilities 
offered by Webster. The building contains a gym, a homestyle deli, and even an inhouse hair and waxing salon. Additionally, each ?oor has a trash-disposal facility and a 
laundry room.
There are, however, some small disadvantages. The laundry facilities can become a 
hassle for many residents. Using the facilities can become expensive, with a cost of 
$2.50 to wash and dry one load of clothes. The dryers on most ?oors are not fully 
functional, often requiring two full runs to completely dry clothes. For many students, 
this is one of the biggest complaints about Webster.
An additional point for consideration is the price. Renting apartments in Webster can 
be costly, but like Fairfax Apartments, its location and amenities may justify the price.
 
Shirley Apartments, located next door to Webster Hall, contains a ?oor plan similar 
to Websters ?oor plan. Each apartment has a bedroom, a living area, and a kitchen, 
while the ef?ciencies are essentially rooms with a bathroom and a kitchen. One 
downside of Shirley, however, is that it is one of the farthest living spaces from 
campus. 
As one of the more recently renovated student dorms on campus, Henderson House 
is a clean and quiet place to live. This dorm offers students air conditioning and 
heating, connected bathrooms  which are cleaned once a week  shared with one 
other room, and the intimacy of a small building, with 20 rooms per ?oor. The ?rst 
?oor is generally reserved for ?rst-years only. 
Accepting residents by application only, Henderson along with McGill are considered 
Wellness Houses, because they promote green practices, maintain a substancefree lifestyle, and generally encourage healthy living. Each student who lives here is 
expected to sign an agreement promising to adhere to these standards during the 
school year. Students can also take advantage of playing for the houses intramural 
teams or participating in weekly optional community activities set up by the resident 
assistants. Tickets to special events like plays or shows are subsidized by the dorm, 
which is a nice perk. 
Henderson, although placed on the outskirts of Carnegie Mellon, is sheltered from 
any traf?c or noise from campus. The dorms residents also respect an unwritten 
policy of peace and quiet, which makes this dorm ideal for studying. 
Despite all Henderson has to offer students, there are drawbacks. Dorm rooms are 
not the largest, and on occasion the heating will malfunction, overheating many of 
the rooms.
 
Welch is one of the Hill houses, but it distinguishes itself by having a 24-hour quiet 
rule. This often means that Welch attracts students who prefer to keep to themselves 
and are less interested in creating a community atmosphere. However, the 
atmosphere seems to suit students who want a comfortable home and dont want to 
be distracted by noise. The rooms are large and bathrooms are spacious. 
HOUSING GUIDE

---------------------------------------------------

FAST FACTS
Location: Adjacent to Gesling Stadium, next to the University Center
Styles of housing: Suite  typically five students share a common living space and bathroom.   
Dorm  prime singles and prime doubles
Size: 296 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: Four (West Wing floors 2 and 4, Resnik floors 2 and 3)
Lounges: Four (West Wing floors 3 and 5, Resnik floors 4 and 5)
WEST WING/RESNIK HOUSE
FAST FACTS
Location: At the corner of Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street
Styles of housing: Apartment  one-bedroom (two students), two-bedroom (four students), and fourbedroom (seven students)
Size: 35 residents
Room retention: Yes
Kitchens: One or two full kitchens per apartment
Lounges: TV lounge and exercise room, shared with Margaret Morrison Apartments
Other amenities: Two washers and two dryers are in the basement. The Frame, a small student-run 
art gallery, is also located on the first floor.
WOODLAWN  APARTMENTS
Woodlawn Apartments may be one of the older housing options on campus, but it is 
convenient for walking to class, and its right on the Forbes Avenue bus routes that 
can take you anywhere else that youd like to go.
The bedrooms and living rooms both boast plenty of space, a de?nite upgrade for 
those used to sharing cramped quarters. Some rooms have hardwood ?oors; others 
have thin carpeting. The building will be undergoing renovations this summer to 
upgrade the wiring and ?xtures in addition to installing brand-new bathrooms.
Several times per semester, The Frame art gallery, which is housed in the ?rst ?oor of 
the apartment building, has loud parties that can be heard throughout the building. 
Woodlawn Apartments is great if you want to live with a big group of friends, since 
each apartment houses a lot of people. Woodlawn is also a good choice if you want a 
small community and are looking to live in an apartment on campus.
Resnik and West Wing are the ideal dormitory choices for students who arent ready 
 or arent willing  to move off campus but want a bit more of a grown-up place 
to live in than a typical dorm. While students in these dorms have the chance to be 
more independent, they also boast a quick walk to any of the academic buildings on 
campus, a de?nite bene?t for those mornings when you just cant stop hitting the 
snooze button.
Both dorms consist primarily of suites, which are made up of two doubles and a 
single with a common bathroom and lounge for the suite. A limited number of prime 
singles and doubles do exist in the buildings as well, though they are not as well 
known.
Resnik and West Wing are optimal for a group of friends who wish to live together 
but want to maintain their proximity to campus and the other advantages  like free 
toilet paper and a once-a-week bathroom cleaning  that living on campus offers. 
Students mostly stay inside their suites, leaving the hallways relatively quiet. The 
lounges do ?ll up, however  usually with groups of students either working on 
homework or playing video games.
Both buildings offer kitchens on certain ?oors, which is nice when youve had your ?ll 
of The Exchange and El Gallo de Oro. If you dont feel like cooking, Resnik is home to 
a number of dining options. There is the Tartans Pavilion, the Carnegie Mellon Caf, 
and Resnik Caf. In particular, Resnik Caf offers a variety of choices, including sushi, 
Indian cuisine, and comfort foods, among others.
With the numerous amenities that Resnik and West Wing offer, it is not surprising 
that both of these dorms ?ll up early in the room selection process. Hopeful residents 
are advised to ?nd a friend who can pull them in.
03.24.14Housing Guide13

---------------------------------------------------

1403.24.14Housing Guide
Just a 10-to-15-minute walk (or ?ve-minute bus ride) from campus lies the neighborhood of Oakland, 
the home of late-night food, University of Pittsburgh pride, and a population made up almost entirely of 
college students. Oakland is home to some of Carnegie Mellon students favorite restaurants, including 
Con?ict Kitchen, Chipotle, Fuel and Fuddle, and The Porch. For students over 21, Oakland has a solid 
group of late-night destinations, such as local bars like Hemingways, Mad Mex with its margaritas, and 
a liquor store with an extensive selection, all within walking distance from each other. Another bene?t of 
Oakland is its availability of affordable housing close to campus. Oakland Avenue and Atwood Avenue 
are lined with housing for both Carnegie Mellon and University of Pittsburgh students.
Most people living here are always up for fun; if youre looking for a quiet neighborhood, Oakland may 
not be your cup of tea. Starting on Thursday nights  the start of the weekend for Pitt students  the 
neighborhood bustles, ?lled with groups of college kids out to have a good time. Oakland should be 
noted for its lively atmosphere and is ideal for anyone looking for an extended weekend and collegeoriented surroundings.
OAKLAND
Shadyside is home to upperclassmen from Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh, 
graduate students, and young working professionals. Accessible by Pittsburgh buses, it tends 
to be slightly pricier than Oakland or Squirrel Hill; however, it is the most charming of the areas 
surrounding campus, with its tree-lined streets and boutiques. The neighborhood is best known 
for two things: shops and bars. Walnut Street is lined with a wide variety of shops, from small 
boutiques to Apple, J. Crew, Ann Taylor, and Banana Republic. Cozy restaurants like the Walnut 
Grill are interspersed among the shops.
Just blocks from the restaurants are Shadysides bars. William Penn Tavern and Shady Grove 
are the most popular, known by Carnegie Mellon students as the closest bar locations outside of 
Panther Hollow Inn. William Penn Tavern in particular gathers a large number of Carnegie Mellon 
students. On Tuesdays and Sundays, William Penn Tavern is open to all ages for its wing nights, 
where customers can get 10 wings in a variety of ?avors, from traditional BBQ to the ?avor mix of 
the kitchen sink, for a great price.
While the area near these bars can be particularly loud from Thursday to Sunday, Shadyside is 
generally a very relaxed, quiet area. The young professionals and the college students who live 
there are diverse   from artists to technical majors to medical students. Shadyside is a great 
area for anyone looking for either an escape from campus or a popular shopping and nightlife 
experience.
SHADYSIDE
HOUSING GUIDE

---------------------------------------------------

15Housing Guide
03.24.14
Just up the big hill on Forbes Avenue is the start of Squirrel Hill. It 
is either a 20-minute walk or a three-minute bus ride from campus, 
and the buses are very frequent  all of the 61 buses serve the 
route. The cost of living in Squirrel Hill is higher than in Oakland, 
but lower than in Shadyside. Furthermore, Squirrel Hill is the 
most residential of all the areas surrounding campus. In addition 
to housing upperclass students from Carnegie Mellon, it is also 
home to faculty and Pittsburgh families not associated with the 
university. Most Carnegie Mellon students know the neighborhood 
for its restaurants and Giant Eagle. Squirrel Hill has a vast diversity 
of restaurants, from Thai food at Silk Elephant to Mediterranean 
food at Mediterranean Grill to the waf?es at Waffallonia. The 
restaurants are dispersed among small shops, including those on 
the main thoroughfare of Forbes Avenue.
On Murray Avenue, just off of Forbes, Giant Eagle is the perfect 
one-stop shop for all of your food shopping necessities. Squirrel Hill 
is relatively quiet, with most noise coming from traf?c on Forbes 
and Murray Avenues. It is not a college neighborhood like Oakland 
and Shadyside, and it does not have a prominent bar scene. It does 
have a residential atmosphere, however, that the other two areas 
lack. 
For someone looking for a short ride or walk from campus with 
all the necessities within walking distance and a wide variety of 
cuisines, Squirrel Hill may be the right place to look for a home to 
rent.
SQUIRREL HILL

---------------------------------------------------


