The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942
Engineering Electives Will Be Offered Women
MANPOWER COMMISSION TO 
CONTROL TECHS STUDENTS
Women To Enroll 
In 83 New Courses
The rapid induction of men into 
the armed forces has caused an 
urgent need for women with tech
nical training, since many positions 
formerly held by men must now be 
filled by women if a vast war pro
duction program is to reach and 
maintain its peak.
Carnegie Tech desires to offer the 
maximum opportunity, for women 
in scientific and technical fields.
Consequently, on January 6, 
courses especially designed to en
able women students to prepare 
themselves for scientific war posi
tions will be offered in the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College 
and the College of Engineering.
Prof. H. M. McCully, head of the 
department of drawing and descrip
tive geometry, headed a committee 
which investigated the possibilities 
of utilizing courses given by the 
College of Engineering for the Mar
garet Morrison students. Data was 
procured on both day and evening 
courses.
It was determined that 83 courses 
could be made available for Mar
garet Morrison students  52 day 
and 31 evening. An indication of 
the scope of the proposed program 
may be had from a breakdown of 
the various courses available, as fol
lows: physics, 9; mechanical engiContinued on Page 3
O. D. K. Will Initiate 
Ten Juniors Tonight
Carnegies Circle of Omicron Del
ta Kappa, national senior class hon
orary, will initiate ten men tonight 
at 5:00 P. M. in the Carnegie Union. 
The candidates, chosen from the up
per 35 per cent of the junior class 
on a basis of leadership, service, and 
participation in extra-curricular ac
tivities, are John Lindberg, Donald 
French, Robert Galbraith, DeWitt 
Lyon, Fred Rousseau, Robert Fries, 
Charles Jones, Rodger Beal, James 
Boyce, and Ed Tennyson. In ad
dition, Mr. Max Hannum was select
ed to succeed Al Irwin as one of the 
four faculty members in O. D. K.
Following the initiation, the 
members will meet with the Pitt 
Circle for a joint observance of O.
D. K. Founders Day.
Next Thursday Omicron Delta 
Kappa, in conjunction with Mor
tar Board, will sponsor a Christmas 
party for Pittsburgh orphans. The 
party, to be held in Thistle Hall, 
will close the season for the grad
uating members of the Circle.
Jurisdiction Over Undergraduates 
Transferred By Presidential Order
The Administration of the Carnegie Institute of Technology is pleased 
that the centralization of authority for the control over all manand womanpoweran authority that embraces and coordinates those activities until now 
independently pursued by numerous armed forces, war industries, civil branches 
of Government, Selective Service, and the War Manpower Commissionhas 
been announced by President Franklin D. Roosevelts Executive Order, pro
viding for the most effective mobilization and utilization of the nation man
power, transferring the Selective Service System to the War Manpower 
Commission.
Therefore, the Administration of the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
in order to clarify the confusion that exists in the minds of students and to 
allay rumors, makes the following announcement :
1. The winning of the war remains the prime objective of this Nation, 
and the resources and facilities of the Carnegie Institute of Technology will 
continue to be used to that end.
2. The Carnegie Institute of Technology plans to continue regular college 
instruction in accordance with the announced schedule for the second semester 
of the year 1942-43.
3. Confusion among students that has been caused by unfounded rumors 
and the lack of authoritative information has been partly dispelled by certain 
definite directives in the Executive Order, as follows:
a. No further enlistments in the armed forces and their reserves are to be 
permitted.
b. Authority over the educational programs of the armed forces and their 
reserve components in non-Federal institutions (and this includes the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology) has been transferred to the Chairman of the War 
Manpower Commission. In this connection Paragraph 6 of the Executive Order 
is quoted for your information:
The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy shall take 
such steps as may be necessary to assure that all training programs for 
the armed forces (including their Reserve components) and the Wo
mens Army Auxiliary Corps, which are carried on in non-Federal 
educational institutions, conform with such policies or regulations as 
the chairman (of the War Manpower Commission), after consultation 
with the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy, prescribes 
as necessary to insure the efficient utilization of the nations educa
tional facilities and personnel for the effective prosecution of the war.
c. The Chairman of the War Manpower Commission shall prescribe the 
regulations to govern the status of those students enlisted in the various Re
serve Corps. This announcement should be made shortly.
d. The Chairman of the War Manpower Commission has authority to pro
vide for the needs of industry as well as for the needs of the armed forces.
4. Concerning deferment under Selective Service, Paragraph 12 of the 
Executive Order is quoted for your information:
All prior executive Orders, insofar as they are in conflict here
with, are amended accordingly. All prior regulations, rulings and 
other directives relating to the Selective Service System shall remain 
in effect, except insofar as they are in conflict with this order or are 
hereafter amended by regulations, rulings or other directives issued by 
or under the direction of the chairman.
5. No change has been made in the announcement concerning fees by 
President Robert E. Doherty as of August 31, 1940, which provides that 
TUITION AND OTHER FEES WILL BE REFUNDED ON A PRO-RATA 
BASIS FOR THE UNEXPIRED PORTION OF THE SEMESTER FOR 
THOSE STUDENTS WHO ARE CALLED BY SELECTIVE SERVICE OR 
TO ACTIVE SERVICE FROM THE ENLISTED RESERVES.
6. If requested to do so, this institution will offer whatever program may 
be required by the United States Government for those students who may be 
assigned on the campus as a part of the armed services.
7. It is the hope of the Administration that students of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology will enroll for the second semester on January 6, 1943, 
in order that they may continue to prepare themselves to make the contri
bution to the war effort that the War Manpower Commission will determine 
for them.
Student Council Will 
Present New Rules 
At Todays Meeting
The following letter which should 
be of interest to all students on cam
pus was received from the president 
of Student Council. The revised 
constitution is printed on page 6 
of this weeks TARTAN.
To the Student Body:
A student General Assembly is 
hereby declared for Tuesday after
noon, December 8, at 4:30 p. m. in 
the Fine Arts Theatre. The purpose 
of this meeting is to take official ac
tion on the Student Council Con
stitution as revised by the Council 
on November 24 and approved by 
the Executive Board on November 
30, 1942.
Your Student Council has worked 
many weeks on various issues at all 
times in collaboration with the 
Dormitory Councils and Interfrater
nity Councilsin an effort to devise 
the most effective, truly studentoperated government of any college 
anywhere. It is our opinion that 
this has been accomplished.
There is at present a noticeable 
lull in interest in student activities, 
supposedly because of uncertainties 
which the immediate future offers. 
It is absolutely inexcusable for stu
dents to appear this irresponsible 
in a matter as permanent and as 
important to normal school life as 
their student government. Will we 
be short sightedand fail to take 
cognizance of the normal student 
life which will follow this war?
The revised Constitution is not 
a temporary arrangement for an ex
pedited program. It is permanent. 
A two-thirds favorable vote of all 
students present at the General As
sembly is required before the re
vised Constitution goes into effect. 
After many weeks of campus-wide 
discussion of issues such as jurisdic
tion and methods of representation, 
it behooves every student to attend 
this Assembly and voice his opinion.
Yours sincerely,
' JOHN C. VAN ARSDELL, 
President, Student Council.
Christmas Chapel
Carnegie Techs annual Christ
mas Chapel, to be held today at 
11:30 in the foyer of the Fine Arts 
Building, will be featured by group 
singing of Christmas carols and the 
reading of the Scriptures. The halls 
will ring with such traditional mel
odies as Adeste Fideles, O Little 
Town of Bethlehem, and The 
First Nowell.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8 1042
Cr&itoAA.' A'unoltaiA.
An Eye To The Future
We believe that every student will read the statement on the first page 
with the same feeling of relief that we experienced. We felt relieved, not 
that everything is definitely known about the future, but that some definite 
plans are being made and adopted.
President Roosevelts appointment of Paul V. McNutt as director of 
the Manpower Commission was the first step in the formation of a definite, 
all-inclusive policy regarding the status of college students in the man
power problem. This problem will eliminate the undesirable competition 
between the enlisting services of the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Corps, and 
the Selective Service and will go far to eliminate the unfair conflicting 
attitudes of the draft boards.
Because of the Tartans inability to publish the next few weeks, we will 
be unable to cover all of the rapid developments of this new program. We 
can, however, read between the lines, make a few deductions and a num
ber of guesses, bearing in mind President Dohertys statements made on 
Carnegie Day, when he so ably called practically all these recent govern
ment moves. The following statements, then, consist of these two ingre
dients (deductions and guesses), mixed well.
School For Soldiers
Should the government develop a plan to provide college training 
for men already in the armed forces, it is our unofficial opinion that the 
schools chosen will be asked to contract for the education, housing and 
boarding of a considerable number of service men. It would seem reason
able to assume that the subjects to be taught would be mathematics, phys
ics, chemistry and probably English, military engineering and other spec
ialized military subjects, since there has been a widely-publicized need for 
personnel trained in those specific branches.
We do not read in the new Executive Order information relative to 
taking over any colleges by the government, but when the order mentions 
specifically the utilizing of the facilities of educational institutions for the 
prosecution of the war, we are certainly justified in assuming that the gov
ernment will use such institutions as Carnegie Tech to do the thing they 
can best do, namely, the educating of young people, whether under gov
ernment contract or in regular degree courses.
It is probable, however, that peace-time courses, may be curtailed be
cause of the reduced number of persons who will be able to take these 
courses, and also because of the taxing of the schools facilities by the war 
courses. Colleges which are not chosen are going to experience trouble in 
finding enough 4-Fs to take their courses, and may find it necessary to 
close their doors for the duration of the war.
Democratic Education For A Change
Up to the present time, the worst part of the entire manpower situation 
was the fact that those who could afford to, went to college and were de
ferred, and those who couldnt were drafted. We will stick our neck out 
again and predict that those in school at present who show aptitude for en
gineering will definitely stay in school. If it comes to the point where they 
can no longer afford to attend school, the government will put them in uni
form and send them back to school to finish.
Instead of the Secretary of "War saying that all Enlisted Reservists 
will be called up on a certain date, the Manpower Commission will deter
mine where each person will be most valuablein school or in the army. 
This change, together with the order stopping enlistments will put a stop to 
the various reserve programs as a refuge from the draft boards.
Although, at present, the plans are to continue the education of only 
those who have completed half of their freshman year it may come to the 
point of inducting promising high school students and sending them to 
collegea move which we consider very laudable.
This incomplete picture of the rapidly developing situation is our only 
guess of what is the most likely to happen. We ask only that you refrain 
from spreading wild stories and from manufacturing rumors as some of the 
students were doing last week. The administration is exerting every ef
fort to clarify the situation, and we rejoice with them at the adoption of this 
sane program.
We realize that it is asking a lot to request the students to think, in ad
dition to the war and final exams, about yet another matter. This item 
m the student general assembly for the purpose of approving the new con
stitution of Student Council.
Space limits our recommendation, but we urge you to read the entire 
constitution, reproduced on page 6. We hope that the year since Pearl Har
ter has made the students appreciative enough of, democratic institutions 
such as referendum to exercise the privilege of voting for their own laws.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the cate of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to he construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty,
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
rmmm Mayflower urn phone schenley 4557
mipTO nm national Co After Office Hours Call
Advertislag Service, Inc. Editor-in-Chief .....................The CaCrCaUemPwUukgnRepretenMhit Business Manager .............SC. 9855420 Madison Ave New York N. Y. 0CttiCAgo * m&mtmm  Los am^elcs  Sab roAWcisro Ad VPrtlsjllg Manager . ............HR. 4759
mmimrrni mm *#-cum matter In tie Pittsburgh Pott Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
PMi*h*d weekly durine *ehool year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Priee SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief............................................. Melvin H, Snyder, Jr.
Buttmu Manager,, Ted Nierenberg
Mmnagmg BOtior,,.................................................... Jeanne King
PMan ̻76rFencS
(Ed. Note: Thus another new character 
gains his entre to the columns of the 
TARTAN. We beg the readers kind in
dulgence in a small preface. End Man 
has permanently assumed the authorship 
of the column which was formerly called 
ONE OF THE BOYS. One may see then 
that when we call him a character, we 
may be taken literally! He isnt ingenious, 
clever, or even very witty, for hes just a 
Typical Mr. Carnegie Tech. He drinks, 
smokes, dates, and even cuts a class occa
sionally. We do think, however, that the 
readers will enjoy his opinions and ob
servations on some of our campus cele
brities. Well let him take over from 
here.)
I was rather surprised, yesterday, 
to meet ex-Ta,rtan Editor Len Chotiner over in the Printing Depart
ment Laboratory.
Why, Chot, what in the world 
are you doing over here?, quoth I.
I really dont know, he said, 
struggling to remove one of his el
bows from a desk, maybe the fact 
that Im a Printer has something to 
do with it! Anyhow, now that the 
Tartan is off my hands, I r$ight be 
able to spare a little time for my 
work.
And that really isnt any joke! Be
ing connected with the aforemen
tioned paper myself, I know what 
it means to be editor. But let me 
tell you a little about Len Chotiner. 
From ancient Boss Hall folk-lore, I 
understand that if you play a Jim
mie Lunceford recording, hell come 
running miles away. I can vouch 
for the fact that when hes really 
feeling blue you can hear the strains 
of Luncefords Prayer For Moders coming from his room.
The word prayer makes me 
think of something about Chot that 
I think very few people know. As 
Shakespeare would say, Beneath 
his strong chin and day-old beard, 
there lies the soul of a romanticist. 
Ive heard him swear at freshmen 
in the Tartan office and then tear 
them into little pieces, but hes al
ways sorry afterwardsthat is to 
say, he wipes off the dagger after 
each murder!
There something else about Chot, 
and Im definitely not going to toss 
the bouquet of the week corn 
either, that impressed me. He 
doesnt have to jingle fifteen or 
twenty activities keys in your face 
to prove hes a real senior. To make 
it short, he is a member of Pi Delta 
Epison, a Technical advisor, a mem
ber of President Dohertys Student 
Conference Committee, and, before
Anderson And Janson 
Present Sonata Recitals
Gosta Andreasson and Selmar 
Janson, faculty members of the De
partment of Music, will present 
their first program in a series of 
sonata recitals next Monday, De
cember 14, at 8:15 P. M. in the Lit
tle Theatre, College of Fine Arts.
The program for Monday eve
nings performance is as follows: 
Beethoven ...................................
.............Sonata in F major, Op. 24
Brahms. .Sonata in A major, Op. 100 
Grieg... .Sonata in C minor, Op. 45
Students may secure tickets for 
the recital this Thursday from Miss 
Lawton in the Music Office room 
153 Arts.
he took over the Tartan, was an allstar intramural basketball and foot
ball player. The one activity which 
reigned second to the Tartan this 
year was his membership in Omicron Delta Kappa.
After almost four years at Carne
gie, Chot has seen what makes the
LEONARD CHOTINER
. . . now I can get to work . . .
school tick. Hes seen the frater
nity side of campus life and hes liv
ed in the dorms. As editor of the 
Tartan he was usually on the inside 
about administration and campus 
decisions. As he says, Ive seen a 
lot and met a great many people. I 
think Ive decided on a generaliza
tion that pretty well fits tlie entire 
business: A glass of beer makes any 
situation bearable.
Council Minutes
The - meeting was called to order at 
7:20 p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emfoerg, Frey, Landerman, Lochhead, Dolan, and the Misses 
Bruce, Carlock, Moir.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social Committee 
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval of 
a petition from the Newman Club to hold 
a dance in Thistle Hall on Friday, De
cember 4, from 9 to 12 and for January 
8.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of 
the elections of November 25, 1942: 
Vice-President of Engineering Senate, 
Philip Rose.
Assistant Treasurers, Richard Lingren, 
Ralph Martin, Louis Lavie.
Senior Representatives, Marvin Goldberger, William C. Heller, James Ho vis, 
John L. Wolff.
Assistant Secretary, Dorothy Houlihan. 
President Senior Class in Engineering,
Robert Culbertson.........................................
Motion carried.
Publications 
Mr. Munyer moved for the approval of 
the following publications elections: 
TartanMelvin Snyder, Editor; Jeanne 
King, Managing Editor.
ScottieRobert Reisacher, Editor; Derek 
Martin, Business Manager.
Tri-PublicationsJames Braden, Edi
tor; John Woodside, Business Manager, 
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell announced that the 
Executive Board approved the revision of 
the Student Council Constitution. He also 
announced that the by-laws will be con
sidered next week.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell announced that there 
would be a Student Council dinner in the 
Union next Tuesday at 6:30. 
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
REV.
. . . speaks at Baccalaureate . . .
be furnished by the Tech orchestra 
under the direction of Dr. J. Vick 
OBrien and the choir of the Music 
Department.
Col. Davies is now on active duty 
in the Ordnance Department of the 
U. S. Army. He was graduated from 
Rensselaer as a mechanical engi
neer, and has been a tool designer 
and rate setter for the Smith Pre
mier Works of the Remington Type
writer Co. He was a captain in 
World War I.
Dr. Muir is Minister of the Bellefield Presbyterian Church. Carnegie 
Tech is among the many colleges 
and universities he attended, and in 
1918 he served as a private in the
S. A. T. C. at Tech. He is a member 
of Delta Tau Delta, was a mathe
matics professor, and has written 
many articles for magazines and pe
riodicals.
The Senior Ball will be on Fri
day, December 18, at nine oclock in 
the College of Fine Arts. On Satur
day there will be a reception by the
of the department of physics at 
Carnegie Tech.
Since the death of Dr. Harry S. 
Hower a year ago there has been no 
head of the physics department.
Dr. Seitz is a graduate of Leland 
Stanford Junior University and 
Princeton University, where he re
ceived his doctors degree in 1934. 
He was Procter Fellow at Princeton 
and later taught at the University 
of Rochester. Before he jointed the 
University of Pennsylvania faculty 
he was research physicist for the 
General Electric Company.
The physics of solids, with em
phasis on metals, glasses, and pig
ments, is Dr. Seitz special field of 
investigation. He has been a pro
lific writer, having published one 
book, the 650-page Modern Theory 
of Solids, and numerous papers 
and reports about his research.
President and Mrs. Doherty for 
members of the graduating class 
and parents, from four to six in the 
College of Fine Arts. The Bac
calaureate Service will be on Sat
urday eveining in the Carnegie 
Music Hall at eight oclock. On Sun
day, December 20, Commencement 
exercises will be held in the Car
negie Music Hall at two.
aaasegagBsaa
A working, sacrificing, fighting America must keep morally and 
physically fitmentally alert. If you are one of the 16 million Amer
ican men and women for whom Bowling provides a regular stimulat
ing recreation, you are co-operating with Uncle Sams health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and mentally alert is an important duty 
not to be neglected. Bowl a few lines each weekat the beautiful
MURRAY-BEACON ALLEYS
JAckson 0266 1916 MURRAY AVENUE
Davies, Muir To Speak 
At Commencement
This year will be the first time in 
the history of Carnegie Tech that 
graduation exercises will be held 
in chilly December. In spite of the 
expedited program, there still will 
be a Senior Ball, Presidents Re
ception, Baccalaureate Address, and 
Commencement Exercises.
Lt. Col. Clarence E. Davies will 
deliver the main address; Dr. C. 
Marshall Muir will speak at the 
Baccalaureate exercise. Music will
CWCA-CMCA To Show 
Xmas Spirit Tomorrow
War may have left Techites sans 
coffee, gas, and cokes, but nothing 
can rob them of the Christmas spir
it. Said spirit will be much in evi
dence tomorrow night at seven 
oclock, when the annual CWCACMCA Christmas dinner will be for
saken for an evening party, due to 
the lack of cooks.
The party will take the form of a 
gigantic Sing, to be held in the Mar
garet Morrison Recreation Hall fea
turing the Chapel Choir and Wo
mens Glee Club. Everyone will get 
a chance to revive their childhood 
with the singing of the Carols of 
yesteryear. Guest speakers for the 
evening will be Dr. Spencer of the 
Point Breeze Presbyterian Church.
In tune with the weather, ice 
cream and cookies will be served to 
warm your chilblains. For the 
slight sum of twenty-five cents, one 
big nickel, you can sing and eat to 
your hearts contentM. M. C. C. Engineers
Continued from Page 1 
neering, 2; mathematics, 8 day and 
12 evening; management engineer
ing, 11; chemistry, 4; printing, 9 day 
and 15 evening; engineering draw
ing, 2 day and 2 evening.
Prerequisites for the courses vary 
according to the departments in
volved, but as a general rule Mar
garet Morrison students, especially 
in the upper classes, will be able 
to present work done in their own 
college, particularly in mathematics 
and science, as prerequisites.
The new demands for women are 
greatest in the fields of chemis
try, physics, mathematics, metal
lurgy, engineering drawing, and bi
ology.
Margaret Morrison students who 
are interested in enrolling for 
these courses are urged to consult 
with Director Charles Watkins at 
their earliest convenience in order 
that proper scheduling may be an
ticipated before actual registration, 
which will star* on January 4.
WAR
needs the wires 
this Christmas!
Wor can't waitnot even for Christmas. 
Telephone lines must be kept dear for important 
war calls during the holidays as at all other times.
So this year, we must ask everybody not to 
send Christmas or New Years greetings by Long 
Distanceespecially to Washington and other cen
ters of war activity.
Important war and emergency calls will, of 
course, be given precedence during the holiday 
rush. This means that other calls may be subject to 
long delays on certain over-crowded circuits to the 
South and to the West. We are sorrybut such de
lays may be unavoidable under present conditions.
Dr. Frederick Seitz 
To Head Physics Dept.
Dr. Frederick Seitz, formerly as
sociate professor of physics at the 
University of Pennsylvania, has 
been appointed professor and head
. . . heads Physics Dept . . .

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942
GauCfUt G*t ^Ite liUU 2)idJz
Kiltie Band and Mens Glee Club 
Finish Records of Tech Songs
Resplendent in plaid shirts, baggy 
trousers, snappy suits, or blue jeans, 
the Kiltie band and Mens Glee Club 
record Tech songs for posterity last 
Wednesday night.
Under the harried supervision of 
Jack Van Arsdell, sweet music was 
made after much rehearsing. First 
it was just ordinary rehearsing. 
Then it was under the eagle ear of 
Bill Hines, Elec. 45, who was buried 
in a corner with wire and heavy 
boxes with dials on them. He cooed 
sweet nothings into a telephone 
about A. C. and D. C. and other long 
words to the recorder who was sta
tioned in the studio over in the 
Schenley Hotel. The recorder is 
William Beall, a graduate of Tech, 
who was contracted by Student 
Council to make the master record.
It was an interesting picture. 
James Morrow, conductor of the or
chestra, stood puffing his long cigar 
trying to become completely com
posed before starting the tedious 
ordeal, while listening to Tom Pur
cell directing the Glee Club in a 
personal arrangement of the Alma 
Mater. Both the drummer on the 
big drum, and the drummer on the 
small ones were twisting drum
sticks like majorettes to limber 
their wrists the Tartan photogra
pher set his lights on his tripods,, re
set them, and took pictures. Mr. 
Hines kept murmuring; while the 
bagpipers blew a few red-faced
The Cokes in
That's the happy greeting heard today when a 
new supply of Coke arrives at a cooler. Folks 
wait for it... wait because the only thing like 
Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola itself. Customers smile 
and start moving up to pause and be refreshed.
There's a cheerful spirit about this way of 
accepting wartime restrictions. Morale is high.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY 8Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA
chords. The president of Student 
Council helped carry in a carpet to 
cut reverberation while someone 
else went about gathering coats to 
lay on all the furniture, and the 
doors were plastered with fibreboard; and havoc reigned supreme.
The havoc was dispersed, though, 
when the Tech musicians really got 
down to work. Mr. Morrow went 
over the B. O.like tune that comes 
in the middle of one of the songs, 
the Glee Club rose in volume, Mr. 
Hines stopped murmuring long 
enough to signal for a dress re
hearsal. With his All set? Roll 
em. Needle down, action really 
began. When he said, Were gonna 
go and repeated that Roll em 
part the recordings were on.
With typical Tech efficiency, the 
first takes were good ones and were 
played back to a highly appreciative 
audience.
The result will be two sides of a 
twelve-inch disk prepared by the 
New York-Scranton Record Com
pany from cuts made by the Schen
ley Hotel Studio and Radio Subsid
iaries, to which the music was wired 
from the Music Room of the Arts 
Building.
Sale of the records to the students 
will begin as soon as the records ar
rive (December 20), at seventy-five 
cents apiece.
Muiic Sp-eaJzA
Student Body Gives f Records To Belvoir
Say it with musicand in time 
for Christmas, too. Yes, Carnegie 
Techs student body and faculty 
members have established a master 
record library for the service men 
at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. This army 
camp was the preference of the 
school, for many of our engineers 
and other students are in training 
at this military post.
Mary Reed, a Music Department 
senior who was responsible for the 
gay, patriotic red, white and blue 
money boxes used in collecting vol
unteer funds for the music library, 
has been, assured by Mr. Donald 
Steinfirst of the Pittsburgh Commit
tee for Armed Forces Master Rec
ords, Inc., that the library will ar
rive at Fort Belvoir in time for hol
iday celebrations. The records will 
receive especial attention at the 
camp, for they will be deposited in 
the central library, loaned out to 
barracks as in the case of books, 
with full responsibility for care, 
used in service club concerts, and 
perhaps over the camp speaker sys
tem. The extent to which the rec
ords will circulate will depend upon 
the wishes of the men and the in
genuity of the camp librarian.
Tech has every right to feel proud 
in having contributed this library, 
for only recently the Virginia post 
requested a music unit. The boys 
at Belvoir may not writebut their 
thanks are there even if not ex
pressed.
E. K. N. Holds Elections
Eta Kappa Nu and the A. I. E. E. 
have elected new officers for the 
next semester. Last Thursday night 
Eta Kappa Nu, electrical honoary, 
chose for President Leslie Frost; 
Vice President, George Gallousis; 
Recording Secretary, Bill Shepard; 
Corresponding Secretary, Joe Eash 
(evening school); Treasurer, Carl 
Olson; and Bridge Correspondence, 
Charles Goehring. The Electrical 
Engineering Seminar elected the A.
I. E. E. officers last Thursday after
noon. They were: Chairman, Bill 
Shafer; Vice President, Leslie Frost; 
Recording Secretary, Dave Gilman; 
Corresponding Secretary, De Witt 
Lyon; and Treasurer, Philip De 
lvernois.
New Special Committee 
Plans Share-the-Rides
At the December meeting of the 
Executive Board, a special commit
tee of the Board on Organized 
Transportation Plan was appointed. 
The main functions of this commit
tee shall be to assist the faculty, 
staff, and students to make ridesharing arrangements and to certify 
to the validity of the statements 
made in the application for supple
mental mileage ration for the pur
pose of driving between home and 
fixed place of work or between 
home and fixed place of study.
Gasoline rationing and rubber 
conservation, together with congest
ed public transportation, make it 
necessary for all students and mem
bers of the faculty who drive auto
mobiles to school to arrange to 
Share-the-Ride. In order to facili
tate such arrangements, the Execu
tive Board formed the special Com
mittee. This Committee urges stu
dents and faculty to consider the 
following information at once.
For those who wish to join, or 
form a Share-the-Ride group, the 
Committee has arranged the follow
ing plan. Each interested person 
should fill out a penny postal card 
with this information: 1. Name; 2. 
Address; 3. Telephone number; 4. 
I have a car which I wish to share 
or I am interested in making ar
rangements to ride to school 
(Write in whichever sentence ap
plies) .
Address the postal card to Box 
B, Carnegie Tech Post Office, and 
mail or drop in the C. I. T. post of
fice. These cards will be posted on 
the bulletin board by the receiving 
office (near the post office), so that 
people who are interested can find 
each other and form their groups.
Drivers who arrange with several 
others for transportation to and 
from school may apply to their lo
cal ration board for supplemental 
gasoline ration with reasonable as
surance that the application will be 
approved. If more than one of the 
group is to drive his car at different 
times, each driver should file a sup
plemental application.
Students who make application 
for supplemental gasoline ration 
should submit the application pro
perly filled out, to Mr. Murphy, Ind. 
246, for preliminary approval.
CHICAGO
One Way $6.60
Round Trip$9.90
30 Day Excursion  Leave Any Day, Return Any Day
OTHER LOW FARES
One Way
Round
Trip
NEW YORK.......................................................$ 6.60$11.90
Cleveland ........................................................... 2.003.60
............................... 4.407.95
............................... 2.904.95
Indianapolis ....................................................... 5.058.60
............................... 8.6514.75
Los Angeles ....................................................... 38.5069.30
Through ExpressService  No Local Stops
For Further Information
TRAILWAYS BUS DEPOT
1011 Liberty Avenue Phone GRant 5744

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
. Ff* T i_l ^ ngi t p d,\&>*-Tp ugco fmsch tsho
<-!r . .._ *r V I I r*ANDTALES
HITCHING POST: Marion Davis has retired from active combatthe man 
is Andy Ritter, a Naval Architect at Dravo . . . Bouncing Bill Beamer 
has just pinned Alita Cornelius. He probably got his speedy technique 
from his training on the Cross-Country Team ... Mary McCarthys new 
Theta Xi pin (from Danny Dickenson) makes the fourth that the Kappas 
have nabbed. Just watch the T. X.s smoke from now on!
FUNNIEST STORY OF THE WEEK was told to your reporter by Dorrie 
OBrien, who walked into the Tarry last week and said she nearly fainted 
to see everyone with the wrong people. What she probably meant was 
Fritz Bealfeld with Babs Burns, Beth McKenney with Rex Stevenson, Jack 
Woodside with Alita Cornelius,B.
P. (before pin), and Maureen Dyer 
with a Delt from Alabama!
ODDS AND ENDS from here and 
there: When Beta Ralph Martin 
was home, he spent the entire time 
with Billie Sommerfield . . . Just 
watch that Hank Holets-Doris Bow
man coupletheyre on their way 
to Town from all we can make out 
. . . And we hear there is a Beta at 
Ohio State whos dying by inches 
because Marie Shurko wont wear 
his pin.
BRAND NEW I.F. COUPLES: Ruth 
Means and Jimmy Balmer. Sally 
Craig and A1 Johannessen. Janie 
Branagan and Jimmy Braden. Ele
anor Wilson and Frank Keck. 
Maureen Dyer and Doug Dobson. 
HOW NICE TO SEE Penn Griffen 
and Peggy Cole together again. Ditot Pat Fullerton and Rodger Beal. 
ALSO WATCH: Betsy Ross and
Bob Nycum. Johnny Lindberg and 
Mary Forman. Pat McCollough and 
Derek Martin. Bob Mellers and 
Dolly Willison. Barb Lindstrom 
and Bob Herrod.
DOUBLE TROUBLE: Things have
been going mighty wrong for some 
of our boysfirst the Delts get fined 
$500 for going out and leaving their 
lights on during a Blackout, and 
then the Kappa Sigs cook forgot to 
show up and the boys had to cook 
their own breakfast after Interfra
ternity.
ON THE RECORD
YOUR CHOICEOF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Sigma Xi Initiates New 
Members At Local Club
Sigma Xi, science honorary fra
ternity of Carnegie Tech, held its 
annual initiation of members and 
associates December 2 at the Col
lege Club.
The highlight of the program was 
an address by Dr. Ernest Berl of 
the Research Science department 
titled Men of Science and the 
Arts. In addition to enumerating 
great men and noting the character
istics which made them great, Dr. 
Bery showed some pictures of his 
coin collection containing coins 
made in honor of men of science.
Those initiated as student associ
ates are: George M. Anderson, Don
ald J. Barrett, Jack L. Bowers, Eliz
abeth A. Buckman, Margaret A. 
Carver, Rachel A. Comer, John 
Nicholas Datesh, Egon Alexander 
DeZubay, Robert Lee Dietrich, Her
bert Enlow Elliott, Edward L. Fire
man, Millard Freeman Gordon, L. 
DArle Hindall, J. W. Hurford, Ed
win T. Kruszewski, Benjamin C. 
Marcin, Leonard B. Prus, Stanley 
A. Rosecrans, Paul Allen Smudski, 
Everett Halliday Stetson, Jr.
Arts Rushing
All freshman girls in Arts School 
who are interested in sororities are 
invited to the assembly in the Lit
tle Theater at 11:30, Tuesday, Janu
ary 5, and the Non-Rushing Tea on 
Wednesday, the 6th, at Whitfield 
Hall from 4:30 to 6.
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
phonograph recital:
First Symphony.................Sibelius
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred
erick Dorian will be in charge of 
this program: i'P
Ninth Symphony.............Bruckner
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Teachers Get Ratings 
Through Senior Vote
For four years the seniors have 
talked about and have rated their 
professors in little private bull ses
sions, but never had these little dis
cussions brought about any changes 
in the prof concerned, and they be
came, virtually, just another means 
of blowing off steam and placing the 
blame for an unfinished assignment 
or a flunked exam on someone else, 
who was not necessarily to blame.
Recognizing that our teachers do 
have faults  in some cases these 
faults being quite severethe Tech 
chapter of Tau Beta Pi has decided 
to hold a rating of the engineering 
professors, with the seniors voting 
as to how they would rate each of 
their instructors. The electricals 
were handed their ballots yester
day, and the others will be handed 
theirs either today or tomorrow.
Each professor will be rated from 
one to five on each of fourteen 
points. Five will indicate a very 
poor standing and one will show 
that a students opinion of his prof 
on that particular basis is excellent. 
The fourteen points on which the 
teachers are to be judged are: (1) 
enthusiasm toward teaching, (2) 
knowledge of courses, (3) ability to 
get the point across, (4) delivery, 
(5) apparent preparation given to 
lectures, (6) interest in individual 
studentsthat is, does he take an 
interest in each of his students as in
dividuals?, (7) outside-of-class
room contact with students, (8) 
ability to stick to the subject in a 
class discussion, (9) sensing when 
the students are keeping up, (10) 
punctuality, (11) assignments  
length, (i2) assignmentsquality, 
(13) quizzes  length, and (14) 
quizzesquality.
The results will not, of course, be 
made public, but each professor will 
be informed of his own rating with 
the hope that he will find some way 
of improving.
This scheme has already been 
tried out at the University of Mis
souri with much success, and it is 
hoped that the cooperation at Tech 
will be such that it can be equally 
successful here.
Nine Pine Street Ends 
Techs Winter Drama Run
With the production of Nine Pine 
Street now playing at the Little 
Theatre, the Drama Department 
rounds out another semester of 
plays. Thomas Job directed the play, 
which will run through this week 
with matinees on both Friday and 
Saturday. Michael Sivy designed 
the set.
This play is based on the famous 
Lizzie Borden murder case which 
startled the country just before the 
turn of the century. Lizzie Borden 
murdered both her parents but was 
acquitted of the crime through the 
influence of the church in her New 
England town. John Colton and 
Carlton Miles, authors of the play, 
have adhered closely to the details 
of the actual news story, changing 
only the names of the characters. 
The Tech Drama Department pro
duction of this play has been double 
cast.
Deans Give Senior Ball 
For December Graduates
Bill LeRoy and his orchestra will 
provide the music for this years 
Senior Ball, which will be held for 
the first time in the Fine Arts Buildin Friday, December 18, from nine 
until one oclock.. Each graduating 
senior will receive an invitation 
that will admit two people. Dr. 
Beryl Warden, Mrs. Yon and Dean 
A. J. Murphy are giving the dance 
in honor of all of the seniors who 
are being graduated in December. 
Formerly this dance was given by 
Student Council and was open to 
the whole school.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700
Fifth near Mellon Institute
SEND TYPE WRIIRIS RSRN-n
DR-N nRXS TYPE nERMCRESOESSi
Dont start for home cluttered up with luggage Just phone 
Railway Express and well call for your trunks and bags, 
speed them to your home, and save you time and needless 
worry. Gives you more room and comfort on the train, too, 
to say nothing of pick-up and delivery at no extra charge 
within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and principal 
towns.
You can send "collect, too, when you use Railway Ex
press. Just phone for information or service.
XPRESS
Agency ^ V inc.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942
For Your ApprovalRevised Constitution
CONSTITUTION OF THE STUDENT 
COUNCIL OF CARNEGIE 
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
PREAMBLE
Whereas, we, the undergraduate Stu
dent Body of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, believe that the Student 
Bodies of each of the three component 
colleges should be united as a group of 
students and that affairs concerning the 
entire Student Body should be dealt with 
by a central organization, we do hereby 
place such matters in the hands of a rep
resentative body whose name, organiza
tion, and powers are defined below. 
ARTICLE IName 
Section I
The name of this organization shall be 
the Student Council of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
ARTICLE II
Representation and Organization
Section I
The Council shall be composed as fol
lows:
(a) Each college (College of Engineer
ing, College of Fine Arts, and Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College) shall have 
one voting member on Council for every 
one hundred (100) (or major fraction 
thereof) full-time, undergraduate stustudents enrolled in that college, as shown 
by the Registrars official lists for the 
semester in which general elections are 
held.
(b) There shall be the following nonvoting members: Two assistant treas
urers from the College of Engineering, one 
assistant treasurer from the College of 
Fine Arts, three assistant secretaries from 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, and 
three sophomore representatives.
(c) Election of all representatives shall
Artists and Draftsmen
declare this ink to be
It flows more freely, does not cake 
in bottles, or on the pen or brush, 
thoroughly waterproof in 20 colors. 
Available at your favorite school 
supply outlet, manufactured by
LOUIS MELIND COMPANY
362 W. Chicago Avenue 
Dept 00 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
be in accordance with the methods as 
specified in the By-Laws of Student 
Council.
Section II
(a) In the College of Engineering and 
in Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, 
two-thirds of the voting members of 
Council shall be from the Senior Class 
and the remaining number shall be from 
the Junior Class. Senior and Junior rep
resentatives shall be elected on two sepa
rate ballots.
(b) In the College of Fine Arts voting 
representatives shall be members of the 
Junior and Senior Classes. The number 
of men voting representatives shall be 
equal to the number of full-time men stu
dents divided by the total number of full
time students multiplied by the total 
number of voting representatives to be 
elected. The remaining number of vot
ing representatives shall be women.
(c) The Secretary and Treasurer shall 
count as voting representatives from their 
colleges; so that for general elections in a 
college having the incoming Secretary or 
Treasurer of Student Council, the Student 
Body will actually elect one less voting 
representative than they will have on 
Council for the coming year.
(d) The assistant secretaries and treas
urers shall be members of the Junior 
Class for the year in which they serve as 
assistant officers.
(e) There shall be one non-voting 
sophomore representative from each of 
the three colleges, elected at large by 
their respective colleges.
(f) All members of Council other than 
the Secretary and Treasurer shall be 
elected at large by their respective col
leges. All representatives to hold office 
shall be full-time undergraduate dayschool students declared eligible by the 
Registrar.
(g) Fractions of one-half (Vz) or more 
shall be considered an integer in deter
mining the representation under Article
II Section I, Section II, and in determin
ing a quorum under Article II Section 
IX, and in passing By-Laws under Ar
ticle V, and in voting to recall under 
Article VIII, and in voting to amend un
der Article IX, and in voting to revise 
under Article X.
Section III
The term of office of all members shall 
be, unless otherwise noted, from the time 
of election to Council in the spring until 
the new Council convenes and organizes 
in the following spring.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
Section IV
(a) The Officers of Student Council 
shall be: President, Vice-President, Sec
retary, and Treasurer.
(b) The President of the Council shall 
be a senior elected by the old Council 
at the first regular meeting after the gen
eral election results are known for all 
representatives-elect. The representative 
elected President shall thereafter vote 
only in case of tie. The runner-up of this 
election shall be Vice-President.
(c) The Secretary and the Treasurer 
shall be elected by the old Council from 
the assistants of that year two weeks be
fore the general elections.
Section V
(a) The President shall preside at all 
meetings when present, shall have power 
to call special meetings with the authori
zation of the Executive Committee, shall 
preside efficiently when called upon. He 
semblies of the entire Student Body, and 
shall perform other duties usually asso
ciated with this office. He shall further 
preserve and be responsible for all rec
ords of the Council, until the new Council 
organizes in the spring. He shall further 
see that the first meeting of the, new 
Council is held with all possible dispatch.
(b) It shall be the duty of the VicePresident to preside in the absence of 
the President and to keep closely informed 
of the business of the Council so as to 
preside at all duly authorized general asshall also perform whatever duties may 
be usual to the office, or especially as
signed thereto.
(c) The Secretary shall be responsible 
for the files of the Student Council, shall 
have charge of the Assistant Secretaries, 
and shall assign them to the various com
mittees upon which they are to serve. She 
shall keep the minutes and handle all 
correspondence.
(d),The Treasurer shall handle all funds 
for the Council. He shall be required to 
give a report of the status of every organ
ization receiving allowances from the 
Student Council budget, when requested 
to do so by the President of the Council. He 
shall make a monthly report at the Coun
cil Meeting. He shall have charge of the 
Assistant Treasurers and shall assign 
them to the various committees upon 
which they are to serve. He shall be 
bonded as the Student Council may deem 
expedient.
Section VIVacancies
(a) In the event of a vacancy in the 
office of President, the Vice-President 
shall succeed as President and continue 
as such for the remainder of the term. 
In case of the Vice-President succeeding 
to the Presidency or otherwise causing a 
vacancy, another Vice-President shall be 
elected by and from the Council.
(b) In the event of a vacancy in the 
office of Secretary or Treasurer, it shall be 
filled by election in the Council from the 
Assistant Secretaries or Treasurers of the 
previous year, providing the vacancy oc
curs before the assistants of the current 
year have had at least three months ac
tive experience on Council. However, the 
vacancy shall be filled from the As
sistant Secretaries or Treasurers of the 
current year if the assistants concerned 
have had three months active experience.
(c) In the event of any Representative 
vacancy, the place on Council shall be
filled by another election in the college 
concerned.
Section VIICommittees 
(a) The work of the Student Council
shall be carried on by means of various 
committees appointed by the President. 
These committees shall be known as fol
lows: Budget, Publications, Elections,
Social, Special, Freshman Regulations and 
Orientation, Executive, Points and Keys, 
Assemblies, and Permanent Decorations 
Committees.
(For membership and duties of Com
mittees, see By-Laws.)
Section VIIIMeetings 
This Council shall hold weekly meet
ings, the time of which is to be set by the 
Executive Committee. Special meetings 
are to be called by the Executive Com
mittee.
Section IXQuorum 
A quorum shall consist of three-fourths 
of the voting members of the Council in
cluding the President.
ARTICLE IIIPowers of the Council 
Section I
All actions taken by this Council shall 
be considered as actions of the Student 
Body, except as provided in Article VII. 
Section II 
This Council shall:
I. Have control and jurisdiction over 
all student organizations in the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, and all extra
curricular, non-athletic student activities; 
and have power to authorize and revoke 
constitutions of these organizations and 
activities. The only exceptions shall be:
(a) Jurisdiction over activities and or
ganizations which no no way involve any 
student or students other than residents 
of the dormitories shall be delegated to 
the Mens Dormitory Council and the 
Womens Dormitory Council.
(b)Jurisdiction over activities and or
ganizations which in no way involve any 
student or students other than members 
of social fraternities and sororities shall 
be delegated to the Interfraternity Coun
cil and the Intersorority Council. In con
nection with this power, Student Council 
shall be the policy-making body in all 
matters applicable to the Student Body or 
any Class as a whole or to any extra
curricular activity except as qualified in
I (a) and (b) of this Section.
II. Recommend to the Executive Board 
each year the detailed annual budget of 
the Student Council and be responsible 
for the administration of expenditures 
under the approved budget.
III. Authorize and supervise all drives 
for funds for special purposes.
IV. Establish and perpetuate school 
spirit, customs, and traditions.
V. Supervise Freshman Regulations 
and Orientation.
VI. Authorize all student social func
tions and rallies held in the Gymnasium 
and Thistle Hall.
VII. Make recommendations on ques
tions of discipline when requested to do 
so by the Discipline Committee of the 
Administration.
VIII. Have a voting member on the 
Rules and Regulation Committee of the 
Executive Board.
ARTICLE IVPublicity 
Section I
It shall be the duty of the Student 
Council to publish notice in the TARTAN 
of all actions affecting the entire Stu
dent Body immediately after such actions 
are taken.
Section II 
The Student Council shall publish in 
the TARTAN a complete list of the offices 
to be filled at least one week before can
didate petitions are due.
Section III 
Regular Student Council meetings shall 
at al times be open to all students in or
der that any student may express his 
views openly to Council and in order that 
underclassmen may understand the funcContinued on Page 7
mSwitch to J/umk.
MEDICOFILIERE SMOKING
66 Baffle Filter ThrillsSmokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, 
AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New YorkThe scientific, 
absorbent filter has contributed 
mightily to the smoking 
pleasure of millions of men and 
women who have switched 
to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel 
through 66 baffles before 
reaching the mouth. Flakes and 
slugs are trapped; and the 
smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds 
its way through the filter.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
STUDENTS!
SuitsDresses RQc
Cleaned and Pressed.. W
SlacksSweaters ol. 
Cleaned and Pressed.. **** w
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Street
We Call and Deliver

---------------------------------------------------

1 IF YOU ASK ME_ THIS GAY HOUSE ^ 
r FULL OF CAMELS IS A GIFT THAT'S 
SURE TO PLEASE ANY CIGARETTE SMOKER
^. (CONTAINS 4 BOXES OFTHE POPULAR ^ ^
FIAT FIFTIES 200 CAMELS) /
^ AND THIS i 
HANDSOME GIFT ' 
CARTON OF CAMELS 
ALWAYS SAYS 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
IN A BIG WAY!
(10 PACKAGES OF 20s200 CAMELS-ALL WRAPPED V AND READY TO CIVE) v
/ IF HE >
SMOKES A PIPE__
HE'LL ENJOY THIS GIFT 
OF PRINCE ALBERT FAR 
INTO THE NEW YEAR!
k. (THIS BIG POUND GIFT OF PRINCE 
I ALBERT IS SO RICH-LOOKINQ
IN ITS CHRISTMAS JACKET> 
V. RICHER-TASTING\ IN HIS PIPE) J
DEALERS 
EVERYWHERE ARE 
FEATURING THESE 
HANDSOME GIFTS 
OF CAMELS AND 
PRINCE ALBERT 
FOR CHRISTMAS
North Carili a
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942____________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Cagers Set For Season Opener;
Battle Waynesburg Tomorrow Nite
Ringing up the curtain for its 
second war time season, the Skibo 
cagers will battle the Waynesburg 
Yellow Jackets tomorrow night in 
the gym at 8:30. In the prelimin
aries the JayVee squad will tangle 
with Central Catholic at 7:00.
The Tartan five will be under the 
aggressive leadership of Dave 
Brinn. He says, We are a fighting 
team and the best Tech has had in 
recent years. This brief statement 
amply describes the 1942-43 edition 
of Coach Hannums cagers, the 
eleventh since his arrival at Tech. 
The team is out to help Max cele
brate his birthday of yesterday with 
a victory.
For Tech it will be Brinn, Marck, 
Meyer, DeBortoli and Showman. 
For replacements, Coach can call on 
Kelly, Sherman, Hugh and Harry 
Smith, Cogswell, Culbertson, Luth
er, Cantini, Neleson and Pakura. 
This years squad is well-balanced 
with both speed and sharp-shooters.
Shots at the Varsity 
George Meyer  first string cen
ter; watch him go up after the ball 
on either back board; very decep
tive; shoots well from the pivot.
George Marck  flash from last 
years freshman team; headed for 
stardom and high scoring honors.
Bob DeBortoli  stalwart guard 
and veteran of last year, shoots long 
and short shots equally as well.
Frank Showman  forward from 
last year is a real threat when the 
pressure is on and has lots of fight.
Hugh Smith  veteran floorman 
from two years back. Hes a smooth 
ball handler and will be hot when 
his game knee gets better.
Bill Bogswell  fast veteran who 
loops them in the bucket from the 
corners, and is a good passer and 
floor man.
Captain Dave Brinn  the back
bone of the whole team. Is a good 
fighter, and will fight, score, and 
lead his team to victory.
With the good reserves Max Hannum has to call on and a little sup
port from the crowd this team is al
most sure to click. Thats the story 
of the opener for tomorrow night 
as it is seen at the present. We 
have the team which, if backed by 
spirit, will be the victors in the bat
tle with the Yellow Jackets tomor
row.
New Constitution . . .
Continued from Page 6
tions and duties of the various represen
tatives.
ARTICLE VBy-Laws
Section I
(a) The Council may pass such ByLaws as it deems necessary by a favorable 
vote of three-fourths of the voting Coun
cil members.
(b) A proposed by-law must be sub
mitted in writing at a regular meeting of 
this Council. It shall be read and tabled 
for one week before being voted on.
ARTICLE VIInitiative
Section I
A petition signed by one hundred (100) 
full-time students shall be sufficient to 
require the Council to take a vote on any 
matter desired within three school weeks 
from the time the petition is presented to 
the President of the Council.
ARTICLE VIIReferendum
Section I
Any action taken by the Council shall 
be accepted by the Student Body with the 
following exception:
A petition signed by three hundred 
(300) full-time students shall make it 
necessary for the Council to submit the 
matter to a vote at a General Assembly, 
within three school weeks from the time 
the petition is presented to the President 
of Student Council. A majority vote of 
the full-time students present will be 
necessary to reverse the action of the 
Council, except as specified in Article IX 
Section I (a). The restraining petition 
must be presented to the President of Stu
dent Council within two school weeks 
from the time the Student Body receives
notice of the action of the Council.
ARTICLE VIIIRecall
Section I
(a) Action to recall any officer or mem
ber of the Student Council must begin 
with a petition signed by three hundred 
(300) full-time students of the institution, 
and receive a favorable vote of threefourths of the voting members of this 
Council.
ARTICLE IXAmendments
Section I
(a) This Constitution may be amend
ed by a favorable vote of three-fourths 
of the voting members of this Council, 
together with a two-thirds vote of all 
full-time students present at a General 
Assembly; or in case of referendum, by 
a three-fourths vote of the full-time stu
dents present at a General Assembly.
(b) A proposed amendment to this 
Constitution must be submitted in writing 
at a regular meeting of this Council. It 
shall be read and tabled for one week be
fore being voted on.
ARTICLE XRevision
Section I
Revision of this Constitution may be 
enacted by the Student Council when 
deemed necessary by that body, and shall 
be accepted by a favorable vote of threefourths of the voting members of the 
Council together with a two-thirds vote 
of all the full-time students present at a 
General Assembly.
ARTICLE XIRatification
Section I
This Constitution shall be deemed rati
fied and will go into effect immediately 
upon approval by the Executive Board of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology and 
upon receiving a favorable vote of a ma
jority of the full-time students present at 
a General Assembly. ___

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942
3The Carnegie jplaid
Jimmy Thomson Plays Dec. 12 
For Annual Christmas Dance
This Saturday evening, December 
12, the heretofore Engineers annual 
Christmas Dance will take place in 
the form of an All-College Dance. 
Thistle Hall has been selected as the 
site for this super occasion.
If you have frequented any of 
Pittsburghs nigst-spots, you cer
tainly have danced to this orchestra 
one time or another. It is composed 
of ten members, two of whom are 
girls. One of them is the featured 
vocalist while the other is a well 
known trumpet player. She has 
played many performances before 
many audiences and with superla
tive acclaim. Jimmy Thompson, the 
leader together with Mickey Dolan, 
the vocalist, and the entire band ex
tend to all of you a most cordial 
welcome.
As for the decorations, Al Flan
ders, the social chairman, and his 
crew are entitled to orchids. Be pre
pared for the unusual as Al keeps 
in step with the oncoming Holiday 
season. He requests all workers to 
come out to any or all of the three 
work periods, namely: one oclock 
Saturday afternoon, the evening of 
the dance, and two oclock Sunday.
All students in all three colleges 
will be admitted free upon presenta
tion of their registration card, while 
all others, including day and de
fense students, will be taxed $1.10 
per couple.
New Registration 
On Jan. 4th & 5th
Carnegie Plaid, with this issue, 
bids adieu to the 1941 season. It is 
felt that the year has been a pleas
ant as well as a profitable one. In 
addition to carrying on the usual 
run of business, reporting school ac
tivities and campus social affairs, 
many friendships among the large 
staff of workers have been formed. 
Incidentally, the phrase large staff 
of workers is not just lightly used, 
for the students have really showed 
great interest in the paper by turn
ing out in large number to help with 
the work. The Plaid, after all, be
longs to the students and any opin
ions or views that they may wish to 
have published will be welcomed 
by the Editor.
December 19th is the last day of 
school, and January 4th and 5th 
have been designated as registration 
days for the new semester. We hope 
that all our students will find it 
possible to register at this time and 
of course all new-comers to the cam
pus will be warmly welcomed.
Our wish for the season is that 
the work will continue on in the 
same friendly and cooperative man
ner which has made the past months 
seem to pass so swiftly.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
*10. Cditcvi
In a recent letter I was repri
manded for not taking the initiative 
to enlarge on a definite system, after 
having suggested a Share-a-Ride 
plan to meet the present transporta
tion emergencyThe Ed.
In previous issues we suggested 
that all students willing to share 
their cars contact The Plaid Office. 
To date we have received one re
plyIt seems plausible, since gas ra
tioning is now in effect, that more 
students would have the foresight 
to offer their cars. The point of the 
plan is: A person riding three or 
four others to school, is in itself 
a form of indirect defense work, of 
a preparatory or brush-up nature, 
but the never-the-less in the interest 
of the war effort. This assistance to 
others in the furtherance of a mu
tual cause might possibly bear 
weight in a car owners ef
forts to obtain additional gas.
Those wishing to talce part in this 
plan are asked to submit their name, 
address, telephone number, and a 
description of the route they travel 
to reach school. This information 
should be deposited in the Evening 
School Box 353, Administration 
Hall (no postage necessary). All re
plies will be printed in future issues 
of The Plaid.
We believe this to be the only de
sirable way to expedite the plan. 
All information received will be 
published for the guidance of those 
seeking a means of attending school. 
It will then remain for these indi
viduals to contact the car owner 
traveling in his direction and 
make his own arrangements for 
transportation to and from school.
Shane. tfaun Can.
The following students are inter
ested in sharing their cars with 
others attending Carnegie Tech 
Evening School.
A. C. Flanders, Carrick, Pa.,
Phone Carrick 3696-R.
J. C. Rymar, Turtle Creek,
Pa., Phone Valley 2525-J.
R. C. King, East McKeesport,
Pa., Phone Valley 4054.
John Hundertmark, Etna, Pa.,
Phone Sterling 2982.
Anyone living in the vicinity of 
these towns who would care to join 
in the pooling of cars may call the 
individual listed.
LOST
A pair of pink rimmed glasses, in 
Margaret Morrison on November 12. 
Substantial reward offered for any in
formation leading to their return. 
SChenley 9138 
TIM TIMBERLAKE
Mrs. W. J. Summerfield
Themes, papers typed accurately. 
Law student rate. JU. 0620-R. 60c 
per 3,600.
Nancy Lewis New 
Fine Arts Pres.
Just in case you have any difficul
ty in recognizing this lovely young 
lady, well give you a clue, her name 
is Nancy Lewis. Nancy holds the ti
tle of President of the College of 
Fine Arts, which is in itself quite an
7<v 1
honor, as she is the first girl ever 
to be named president in the col
lege. An active worker in student 
council events, she has already 
earned three insignias and her per
sonality and interest in campus ac
tivities will probably lead her on 
to even greater fame and achieve
ment. Wherever things are buzzing, 
thats where youll find Nancy, and 
her interest and enthusiasm in what 
others are doing have won her the 
affection and esteem of her fellow 
students.
New Industries Officers
At a recent meeting of the Stu
dent Council, President Stephen 
Marcinizyn appointed officers to 
represent the College of Industries 
for the ensuing year. Philip Carnvale was named President and 
George Riffle as Vice-President and 
Assistant Social Chairman. This 
finally gives Industries representa
tion in Council and puts them on a 
par with Engineering. Fine Arts 
officers will be appointed at the next 
session in the event they have any 
eligible students; otherwise, a rep
resentative group of active Arts stu
dents will be invited to sit in on 
Council meetings.
DANCE
to
BILLY HINDS
and
HIS ORCHESTRA
FORMAL DANCING
Every Saturday Evening
INFORMAL DANCING
Every Friday Evening 
at 10:00 P. M $1.00 per person
(plus tax)
Including midnight supper.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening "cnool Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School staff.
Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts 
Marion Frost
Philip Boyle 
James Flaherty 
Albert Flanders 
Mary Hensler 
Albert Kerstukos 
Robert Lenigan
Staff
Mary Jo Weber
Edward A. Macha 
S. W. Marcinizyn 
D. Pettigrew, Jr. 
Pearl Pettola 
Robert Poznanski 
Joseph M. Rymar
The corners at Thistle Hall really 
were lovely Jim Flaherty, and we 
heard many compliments on them. 
Congrats, you did it again . . . In
cidentally Jims usual partner, Bob 
Lenigan, is laid up with an impend
ing appendectomy. Hurry back, Bob, 
cause we all sure miss you (and 
your car) . . . Who is Black-out 
Peggy?? All the boys know but 
none will tell Harvey Johnson. Poor 
guy, or is he? . . . Now really Ed 
Macha, you should pick on some
one your size for a change. No more 
kidding smaller guys, and were not 
foolin either . . . Jean IVfcenan 
finally decided which of the hand
some men would take her to the 
dance last week, and we hear they 
had a wonderful time . . . Why 
must Al Flanders and John Hun
dertmark go for the same luscious 
Arts student when there is such a 
shortage'of men? It isnt fair . . . 
Certain people missed connections 
after the dance  six bewildered 
babes in the woods wandered into 
Childsthe other fourteen ended up 
at the Union Grill (paid advertise
ment) . . . Claire Hinnebusch, 
Arts student last year, must still be 
interested in Carnegie for she at
tended the dance last time and is 
planning on being present at the 
Christmas dance . . .Jim Werner, 
the glamor boy of Engineering, 
plans to leave the girls soon. Must 
Uncle Sam take him too? . . . Many 
thanks to Mary Considine for her 
help in editing this page.
EQUO
RADIO DIVISION 7 Central Park Wtst 
(at Columbus Circle) N. V. Circle 7-2515
PRE-MILITARY TRAINING 
for MEN of MILITARY AGE
CIVILIAN TRAINING
for Men and Women Seeking Careen in Radio 
RADIO OPERATORSTECHNICIANS
1 If qualified, are in great demand by the 
_ Armed Force, Merchant Marine,
Commercial Air Lines, etc.
COURSES UP TO 8 MONTHS
Latest Commercial Type Equipment
MACHINIST
____ MACHINE SHOP DIVISION
260 WEST 41st ST., N.Y.C.. LOngacre 3-2180
MACHINIST 
tTOOL & DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING
3 to 12 WEEK COURSES
Beginners  Advanced  Brush-Up 
Individual Instruction. Day and Evening
METROPOLITAN"
For Men &. Women Lleensed by State \f N. Y. 
No Salesmen. Write or Call 9 a.m.-9:30 MELE 
Metropolitan Tech Standards Throughout
