Sally Mair
Theta
Marilyn Mitchell
Tri Delt
VOL. 48No. 24 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., APRIL 26, 1955
Sororities Work Hard 
For Queen Elections
Every Spring Carnival finds sorority girls busily making posters, 
constructing costumes, and choreographing dances for the queen can
didate campaigns. According to latest reports this year is no ex
ception. Heres the latest word from the sororities:
Religion As A 
Tool, Topic On 
May 3 At 11:30
At the last assembly for the 
year, sponsored by the Committee 
on Religious Activities, Admiral 
Ben Moreell, Chairman of the 
Board, Jones and Laughlin Steel 
Corporation, will speak on Re
ligion As a Tool. Th assembly 
will be held Tuesday, May 3, at 
11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts Thea
tre for all students and faculty.
Admiral Moreell is a native of 
St. Louis, Mo., and was gradu
ated from Washington University 
in St. Louis with the degree of 
bachelor of science in civil enAdmiral Moreell
Assembly Speaker
gineering. After a competitive 
examination for a-commission in 
the regular Navy, he rose to be
come Chief of the Bureau of 
Yards and Docks.
During World War II he be
came the Navys youngest Vice 
Admiral and later the first officer 
not a graduate of Annapolis to 
hold the rank of Admiral.
Admiral Moreell organizedthe 
Navy SeaBees, whose name is de
rived from the initials CB for 
Construction Battalion. By the 
wars end, Admiral Moreell had 
directed a lO-billion-dollar con
struction program in building up 
the shore establishment needed 
to back up the fleet.
After his retirement from active 
service with the Navy in 1946, 
he became president and chair
man of the board of Jones and 
Laughlin. In 1952 he relinquish
ed the presidency and now serves 
the firm as chairman of the board.
Alpha Epsilon Phi  Rain or 
shine, Alpha Epsilon Phi girls 
travel the cut in yellow slickers 
and bright umbrellas. In Skibo 
and evening campaigns, they be
come the delightful folk of Car
negie Village, and in song, dance, 
and pantomine, they tell the 
legend of the Carnival rain. Of 
coursel thats all because of their 
candidate, Sarah Hailperin.
Chi OmegaOut of the West 
came Diane Bobinski and Bookie 
McGinley with six shooters and 
shouts of Yippe-Yi-AChi O. 
On Wednesday in Skibo the Chi 
Os will present their skit using 
a western theme.
Delta Delta Delta  The cam
paign slogan, Suit Your Fancy 
With Marilyn and Nancy, touches 
off a Parisienne Review which in
cludes scenes from the sophisti
cated Right Bank of Paris. Mari
lyn Mitchell, a music major, and 
Nancy Davis, a senior in secre
tarial studies, are featured in this 
narrative of the hustle and bustle 
of the exciting French city.
Delta Gamma  Ahoy there, 
mates! Now hear this from the 
captains of SS DG: on Tuesday, 
April 26 around 1300, the DG will 
anchor at Fort Skibo with a great 
exhibit. On our last maneuver our 
brought up two of the rarest 
creatures ever to be found in the 
deep. Who? Jimmy Fam 
and Doriene Deeter. The captain 
invites you to be his guest at the 
first public appearance of our terfic catch. Be there. That is all. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma  Barb 
Hall, a senior drama student, and 
Carol Peterson, a senior home 
economics student, are the stars of 
the sororitys review, Snow Kappades of 55. After a cold, cold, 
1954-55 winter, the Kappas have 
taken snow as their theme. These 
snow belles will serenade the 
dorms and fraternities on Tuesday 
and Wednesday nights and serve 
dinner to the fraternities during the week.
Kappa Alpha ThetaThe KATs
have brought their queens, Norma 
Hassel and Sally Mair; straight 
from the Nile. The mystery, sym
bolism, and beauty are all ex
pressed in 'this campaign which 
centers around the ancient land of 
Egypt. The green of the Nile and 
the blue of the Egyptian sky will 
be carried to Techs campus 
through this unique campaign.
Sigma Kappa  On Wednesday 
in Skibo the Sig Kaps want to steal 
the attention of the spectators with 
their piracy theme. The pirate 
leader is Marilyn * Humphreys, a 
home economics major. The buc
caneers will also serenade on 
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings.
Jimmy Fam
Delta GammaMarilyn Humphreys
Sig KapSarah Hailperin
A E Phi
Barb Hall
Kappa
Carol Peterson
Kappa
Norma Hassel
ThetaBookie McGinley
Chi O
Nancy Davis 
Tri Delt
Doriene Deeter 
Delta Gamma
Diane Bobinski
Chi O
Art Mooney To Play May 7 
For Spring Carnival Formal
Queen Voting
Voting for Spring Carnival 
Queen and Court will take 
place Tuesday, May 3, between 
8:30 and 1:30 in Skibo. Only 
registered day men students 
(including graduate students) 
will be eligible to vote.
There will be an opportu
nity for everyone to see all 
the candidates this week in 
Skibo.
The schedule for sorority 
campaigning is as follows:
Tuesday, 11:30 to 1:30: Delta 
Delta Delta, Kappa Alpha 
Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
Alpha Epsilon Phi, Delta 
Gamma. Wednesday, Sigma 
Kappa, Chi Omega.
The Spring Carnival Committee is very proud to bring you Art 
Mooney as the big attraction of the formal on the Saturday night of 
Spring Carnival. The dance will be held in the gym from 9 until 1. 
At 11 or so will be the intermission at which time the various awards
will be madefor booth competi-" 
tion, egg throwing, sorority relay 
competition, plank jousting, 
sweepstakes, and buggy design.
Few band leaders on the Ameri
can musical scene have created 
such a fervor of excitement as Art 
Mooney. His waxing of Im 
Looking Over a Four Leaf Clover 
became a national institution, 
which won for him top position in 
every type of music poll and cata
pulted him into the most promi
nent position of the band world. 
Art Mooney and the Orchestra 
have sold over six million records 
in the past two years. Among his 
better known discs are: You
Were Meant for Me, Baby Face, 
Blue Shadows on the Trail, 
Once and for Always, and SerArt Mooney
Spring Carnival Band Leader
enade in Blue. Alan Foster does 
the vocals of Mooneys music with 
A romantic beat.
During the years Art attended 
technical high, he studied saxo
phone after school hours. It was 
not too long before his mastery 
over the saxophone was such that 
he organized a small band of high 
school kids. However, on gradua
tion, Art laid aside his instru
ment and, following his parents 
[Continued on page 8]
Wide Variety Of 
Summer Session 
Courses Planned
The thirty-seventh summer ses
sion at Carnegie Tech will offer 
teachers and other professional 
workers an intensive program in 
music, "painting and design, print
ing, psychology and education. 
These courses will be given over 
a six-week period, June 27 to 
August 6.
Instruction in chemistry, engi
neering, architecture, drawing, 
mathematics, physics, economics, 
English, history, modern lan
guages, and psychology will also 
be offered in the eight-week peri
od, June 13 to August 6, for the 
convenience of students who wish 
to study in their academic fields 
through the year.
Taught according to the famed 
Carnegie Plan of Professional 
Education, Carnegies' summer 
courses offer the same quality as 
those provided during the regu
lar academic year. Major differ
ence during summer is that the 
classes are kept smaller, allow
ing faculty members more inti
mate acquaintance with the edu
cational problems of the individ
ual student.Unique Architecture 
This years summer session will 
feature an introductory course in 
architecture for students who 
wish to determine their aptitude 
in the field and those who desire 
it for elective credit. *
Classes in music will be offered 
for all levels of advancement, in
cluding, those for high school stu
dents through those leading to the 
[Continued on page 8]
T ickets
Spring Carnival dance tick
ets will go on sale in Skibo 
Tuesday, April 26 at 11:30. 
The cost is $4.75 and includes 
both the Friday and Saturday 
night dances. Get yours early.
Scotch N Soda 
To Be Best Ever
"Pittsburghs first completely 
original musical comedy of the 
year is what Ron Friedman, 
president of Scotch n Soda, calls 
this years production. Curtain 
goes up on Adults Only 
Monday night after weeks of 
uous rehearsals and work sessions.
The show this year follows last 
years innovation of using a con
tinuous story around which the 
music and dancing are built. 
Smith, sub-senior architect, and 
Ron Friedman wrote the book, 
Bill Henry composed the music, 
and Barb Hall-and Teena Stern 
did the choreography.
The cast, executive board, and 
technical crews are all students 
who spend many hours, in addi
tion to their school requirements, 
working on a production to add 
to your enjoyment of Spring Car
nival. Scotch n Soda is one of 
Techs fondest activities. Some
how amidst the flurry of buggy 
building, queen campaigning and 
the various Other preparations for 
Carnival, about 200 students find, 
time to put together a show that 
rivals any Max Liebman spec
tacular in quality and surpasses 
any production in sincerity. This 
year the theater arrangement has 
been changd and the sound, which 
has always been Scotch n Sodas 
biggest problem, has been im
proved.
Scotch n Sod is your show 
all the way,' says Ron Friedman. 
So buy your tickets soon. They 
may be obtained any time this 
week at the Scotch n Soda table 
in Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 26, 1955
Lowdown On Left Handed Club 
Revealed To General Public
By Marilyn Casey 
All right, Bobthatll be ten cents! And so another dime falls 
into the left-handed club treasury. Whats this left-handed club? 
shout all non-members, who questioningly watch everyone in Skibo 
drinking coffee with his left hand.
The best way to answer this-------------------------------------------------
question is to start at the very bej pi  Glvminrii-ginning. A group of students were *- ucliH'lH*!
clustered around a table in Carjjr  jrr  
negie Techs famous institution,i ll OTlOriTlg H/lTlStSlJl 
Skibo. They seemed to feel a \ TT~]J V f 1 
need on the campus for an organj MTLlU X CStSVCKiy 
ization that would have outdoor  The life and work of Albert 
activities such as picnics, horse-1 Einstein, was commemorated by 
back riding and other group activ; physics department at a colities. To create an interest in the ; Joquium held yesterday. The colclub and finance their activities, ! 
they planned a contest.
The rules were that all righthanded people had to drink all 
liquids with their left hand, and 
step on the pedal of a water foun
tain with their left foot, and vica 
versa for all left-handed people. 
The penalty for each mistake was 
ten cents. The minimum member
ship fee was $1.00 and the maxi
mum fee was $3.00. The maxi
mum fee was reached first and 
very quickly by Warren Doty.
The first all-club activity was a 
picnic held April 24. Fifty out of 
65 members were present.
Club officers are Amata Teta, 
president and treasurer; Scottie 
Hadjis, recording secretary; Josie 
Boyd, corresponding secretary; 
Charles Hastings, social chairman; 
Leb Brown, public relations; and 
Chuck Hall and Pat Naugle, Good 
Will Ambassadors.
The original club had such a 
large membership that a second 
club was formed. This club is 
holding a picnic Sunday, May 8.
Tail Beta Pi Will 
Hold Initiation 
Banquet On May 1
Tau Beta Pi, national engi
neering honorary, has tentatively 
set its annual banquet and in
stallation ceremonies for May 1 
at the King Edward Apartments.
Seniors to be installed include: 
Walter B. Capp, Bernard I. Bloch, 
and John M. Sheehan.
Elected from the junior class 
are: Woodward C. Carter, Donald 
Gross, Philip A. Gresh, Theodore 
K. Hatch, George P. Lang, Robert 
K. Lindsay, and Robert S. Erylemore.
Night school Tau Beta Pi 
pledges include: Leo Rindt,
Stanley Jack, Sylvester Weber, 
Chester Duda, Charles Mueller, 
Robert Ruah, Tanner Bisserd, 
Adrian Billetdeoux, and John 
Fetzer.
Tau Beta Pi, the most outstand
ing engineering honorary in the 
world, selects its members on the 
basis of scholarship and exem
plary character. Eligible for 
membership, besides juniors and 
seniors, are graduates who meet 
the qualifications required of un
dergraduates and who have prov
ed themselves capable of per
forming meritorious work in in
dustry.
CIT Enters 
Hearst Contest
Claude Jenkins, junior drama 
student, is Techs representative in 
the annual Hearst Oratorical Con
test, after being chosen over Lewis 
Olsen, a freshman dramat, on April 
21.
Jenkins will compete with rep
resentatives from Pitt, P.C.W., 
Mount Mercy, and Duquesne at the 
Stephen Foster Memorial on May
4. The winner of this contest will 
compete in the mid-western divi
sion at Detroit, May 16. The rfationwide finals will be held in Al
bany on May 24.
Tech has had several mid-western winners in the Hearst Con
test. John Ragin won first prize 
in 1953, and Tucker Ashworth took 
second prizefin 1954. Both were 
drama students.
The Hearst Contest is open to 
all college students.
loquium was held in place of the 
regularly scheduled physics col
loquium, in appreciation of the 
contributions made to the world 
by its greatest modern physicist, 
who died April 18.
The speaker was Professor E. 
C. Corben, who has taught Ein
steins famous theory of relativ
ity at Tech since 1946, and who 
recently returned from a Fullbright teaching fellowship in 
Italy.
Dr Corben gave a verbal pic
ture of the physical world, the 
problems it posed to the young 
Einstein at the age of 25, and the 
research by which he overcame 
them, astounding the world with 
his new physical theories.
The Rivals Is 
Latest Production 
Of Drama School
Students of the drama depart
ment, under the direction of Char
les Werner Moore* will present 
Richard Brinsley Sheridans The 
Rivals from May 10 to 19 at 8:15 
p.m. in the Little Theater.
First produced in London in 1775, 
The Rivals is a comedy in five 
acts on the English upper class. A 
prologue written by Mrs. Mar
garet LeClair, associate professor 
of English at Tech, will -be read 
by Gwendolyn Sheffey at each 
performance.
The cast includes Sally Breskin 
as Mrs. Malaprop, James Coakley 
as Sir Anthony Absolute, William 
Young as Saptain Jack Absolute, 
and Nancy Cole and Carolyn 
Sedey as Lydia Languish. Julia 
is being played by Joyce Womack, 
Faulkland by Daniel Walker, and 
Sir Lucius OTrigger by Edward 
Goodell.
Gwendolyn Sheffey plays the 
role of Lucy with Larry Bloom as 
Acres, Gary Smith as Fag, and 
Arnold Brockman as David.
Carnegie Tech students may 
pick up free tickets in Room 100 
in the Fine Arts building on May 
3 from 4 to 5 p.m. upon presenta
tion of their ID cards.
Pi DE Party
The date for the Pi Delta 
Epsilon party for students in
terested in publications has 
been changed from Tuesday, 
April 26 to Tuesday, May 10 
at 8:00 p.m. at the ATO house.
Dorm Picnic
A picnic for all dorm resi
dents and their dates will be 
held at the Community House 
in South Park on Saturday, 
April 30. Busses will leave 
from Donner Hall at 2:00 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society presents the
PHILADELPHIA 
ORCHESTRA
EUGENE ORMANDY Conducting
SYRIA MOSQUE, MAY 3
8:40 P.M.
This is the first Pittsburgh concert by the Philadelphia Orchestra since February 11, 1950
PROGRAM 
HOWARD HANSON ........ Sinfonia Sacra (Symphony No. 5)HINDEMUTH ............................ Symphony, Mathis der Maler
YARDUMIAN .......................................................Armenian DancesDEBUSSY ................................................................................ La Mer
STUDENT TICKETS
*1.00 and 75^
REGISTRARS OFFICE-Mrs. King
What young people are doing at General Electric
Young specialist in 
community relations 
makes friends in 
101 plant cities
General Electric now has 131 plants in 101 
cities, and one problem is common to all: 
How can the company show people in every 
community that it is a gdod neighbor?
This responsibility is shared by many and 
stimulated by 32-year-old John T. McCarty. 
His job: Consultant, Program Services in 
Plant Community Relations.
McCartys work is varied, exciting
McCartys assignment is to help each of the 
General Electric plants tell its neighbors what 
it is doing, what it hopes to do, and how it 
fits into the community.
He must be ready to travel to 26 states. 
He prepares community-relations manuals 
for use in all 101 plant cities. He supervises 
surveys of community sentiment, and tests 
the local effects of the companys advertis
ing. And he helps plant management main
tain friendly contacts with civic, religious, 
educational and other community leaders.
23,000 college graduates at General Electric
This is a sensitive and important job. 
McCarty was readied for it in a careful stepby-step program of development. Like Mc
Carty, each of the 23,000 college-graduate 
employees is given his chance to grow, to 
find the work he does best, and to realize his 
full potential. For General Electric has long 
believed this: When fresh young minds are 
given freedom to make progress, everybody 
benefits  the individual, the company, and 
the country.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 26, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
THIS ARROW SHORT STORY 
MAKES REAL SUMMER SENSE
Here a really smart summer combination ... get
ting more popular every day. Arrow gingham shirts 
and fine Arrow walking shorts. Theyll keep you 
cool, and give you comfort when you want it most.
The shorts are comfortable, practical, right in style 
today. We wouldnt be surprised to see more shorts 
than longs on most any campus this spring.
Get Arrow walking shorts priced from a mere 
?3.95 in denim ($5.00 in other fabffcs). Get frosty 
Arrow ginghams, too. from $3.95. Broadcloth check, (left), $5.00.
AJWOW
CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS * TIES 
UNDERWEAR 
HANDKERCHIEFS
15 Teams Enter 
ontest Held Here 
Last Saturday
Tech Researchers To Compile 
Critical Data For Industry Use
Since 1942 the American Petroleum Institute Research Project 
44, directed by Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, has been assembling all 
available physical, thermodynamic, and spectral data on the com
ponents of petroleum and petroleum products.
Until this year, the API Re-*
search Project 44 was the only one 
of its kind. In January, however, 
the Manufacturing Chemists Asso
ciation aroused by the achievement 
of Project 44, inaugurated a simi
lar research project on properties 
of chemical compounds at Carne
gie Tech, choosing Dr. Rossini to 
direct it.
Target of the new project is to 
investigate the physical and 
thermodynamic prop erties of 
chemical compounds and to pre
pare and maintain up-to-date a 
complete set of fundamental data 
compiled in a convenient form for 
ready use.
Many Uses For Information
Such fundamental background 
information on chemical com
pounds will enable the chemical 
industry to utilize its raw mate
rials to the greatest possible ad
vantage. It will tell the research
er immediately what data are 
available and what he must 
search out himself. Many manyears of duplication will be avoid
ed in the research laboratories of 
the nation, and new products will 
more rapidly appear. Most im
portant, compounds which are 
now cast aside as useless, may 
very well be found to have some 
intrinsic utility as their proper
ties become known.
This continuing accumulation 
of knowledge, Dr. Rossini points 
out, will be to the chemist and 
chemical engineer, what an una
bridged dictionary and encyclo
pedia are to the writer.
Chemical Prediction To Be Aided
First to be investigated will be 
the compounds belonging to the 
halogen, nitrogen, and phosphorus 
families. There are compounds in 
each of these groups which have 
never yet been prepared. But the 
tables Dr. Rossinis researchers 
will compile, giving complete and 
consistent information of heats 
and free energies of formation 
from low to high temperatures 
of certain key compounds, will 
enable scientists to predict the 
properties of the unknown com
pounds and determine whether or 
not they are worthwhile produc
ing.
Not only will the tables prevent 
hundreds of researchers from 
wasting their precious time com
piling the same data in hundreds 
of laboratories throughout the 
free world, it will also prevent 
another very high-cost type of 
waste. Manufacturing chemists 
building or planning a process 
based on unreliable data expect 
the full yield as calculated. They 
are highly disappointed when 
they get only a very slight frac
tion of the anticipated yield, and 
might very well put the prospec
tive process on the shelf without 
trial because it appears uneco
nomical. By so doing, they may 
be depriving the world of a new 
and important product.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
WVlJ Wins Debate Tourney
Competitions
The Spring Carnival compe
titions are not limited to fra
ternity and sorority members.
Any organization wishing to 
enter a team in the plank 
jousting should contact Ed 
Davis at MU 3-1716 immedi
ately. Any group wishing to 
enter the female competition 
should contact Mary Ellen 
Ruth at MU 2-8897.
Si Kellman presenting trophy to captain of WVUs winning de
bate team.
On Campos Afexhuman I
(Author of Barefoot Boy With Cheek," etc.)
LOVE IN REVERSE
They were at the campus swimming pool. She was standing on the diving boardlithe, young, vibrant. He came swimming over. Hey, he called, climbing up on the board, was it you who made that dive 
a minute ago?She noddedlithe, young, vibrant.Whew! he whistled. That was some dive! A back jackknife two and a half twist full gainer swan. Where did you learn to dive 
like that?I fell off the board, she explained.Oh, he said. He looked at herlithe, young, vibrant. Lets go 
steady, he said.But I dont know anything about you, she said.Whats there to know? he said. Im a typical American college manyoung, healthy, and broke.Thats good enough for me, she said, for I am not interested in money. I am a girl of simple tasteslithe, young, vibrant.Dad! he whispered.Crazy! she breathed.Their lips met. Their arms twined. They fell off the board.If you only knew, he said later, as he applied artificial respiration, how long I have been looking for a lithe, young, vibrant girl of simple tastes, for though my heart is large and full of love, my purse is lean and meagre. My cruel father sends me an allowance barely large enough to support life. So I have been looking high and low for 
a girl of simple tastes.Search no more, she said. My tastes are simple; my wants are few. Just take me riding in a long, sleek, new yellow convertible, 
and I am content.Goodbye, he said and ran away as fast as his chubby little legs could carry him, for he knew this girl was not for the likes of him. He had neither convertible nor hardtop, nor the money to buy one, nor the means to get the money, short of picking up his stingy father by the ankles and shaking him till his wallet fell out. No, there was 
nothing for it except to forget this girl.But lying on his pallet at the dormitory, he could not get her out of his mind and finally he knew that whatever the expense, he had to have her lithe, young, vibrant.So he sold a few thingshis textbooks, his overcoat, his hi-Y pin, his roommates truss  and soon he had accumulated a goodly sum. He went to a place that sold automobiles. How much does it cost, he 
aid, to buy a yellow convertible automobile?The man told him. He collapsed in a gibbering heap.After a while he stirred and shambled home. But .on the way heMassed a place with a big sign that said: RENT A CAR DRIVE OURSELF. Hope came into our heros eyes. He went inside. How much does it cost, he said, to rent a yellow convertible automobile? Ten dollars a day, plus seven cents a mile, said the man.Done and done, said our hero, and soon he drove away in a long, 
sleek, new, yellow convertible.
Oh, goody! said Che*lithe, young, vibrant girl when she saw tlfe car. This suits my simple tastes to a T.^ Come, let us speed over 
rolling highways and through bosky dells.And away they went. They drove north, they drove south, they drove fast, they drove slow, they drove east, they drove west, they drove and drove and drove and, finally, tired but happy, they parked 
high on a windswept hill.Philip Morris? he said.Yum, yum! she said.They lit up. She snuggled against him. You know, he said, you 
are like a Phflip Morrismild and fresh and relaxing.But there is a big difference between me and Philip Morris, said she. Theyre available in king-size and regular, and I am only 
available in regular.They laughed. They kissed. He screamed.What is it, dear man? cried she, alarmed.The speedometer, he said. I just noticed. We put on 200 miles 
tonight, and this car costs seven cents a mile, and I have only $14 
left.But thats exactly enough," she said.Yes, he said, but we still have to drive home, and that will put a lot more miles on the car. Where will I get the money to pay 
for that?Gee, I dont know, said she.Me neither, he said glumly. He started the motor and baeked
out of the parking place. , ,Hey, look!* said the girl. The speedometer doesn t move when
youre backing up. . , , , ,.He looked. It was true. Mileage only registered when the car wasmoving forwardnot in reverse. Eureka! he said. That sit.
Do you mean said she.Exactly! said he. I will drive home in reverse. Then no more 
miles will register and Ill have enough money to pay!I think thats a George idea! she cried, and she was right. Because today our hero is in the county jail where food, clothes, and lodging are provided free of charge, and his allowance is piling up fast. By the time his sentence is ended, he should have enough to 
take his girl out riding again.QMtx Shulman, 1994
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
CFP Protests 
Combo Ban
The Council of Fraternity Presi
dents in their last meeting pro
tested Student Councils action 
banning musical organizations 
from the campus during Spring 
Carnival. The meeting also saw 
extensive revision of the CFP 
Constitution. Themeeting was 
held Monday night, April 16, at 
the Beta Theta Pi house.
Last week Student Council 
passed a motion that bars any 
froternity or social organization 
from having a combo or band 
during Spring Carnival. The 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
passed a motion to protest this 
action. It was felt that the action 
by Student Council came too late, 
being only two weeks before 
Carnival. One fraternity has olready given $50.00 as a guarantee 
to a band. It was also suggested 
that combos be allowed in the 
afternoons and at times not in 
competition with Spring Carnival 
events.
Final passage was also given to 
admendments to the CFP consti
tution. The main change is that 
junior CFP representatives will 
serve a term of one year. The first 
six fraternities in alphabetical 
order will elect their delegates in 
the fall while the other will 
select theirs in the spring semester. 
It is felt this will stabilize CFP 
and give it experienced personnel 
from year to year. In the past the 
turn-over rate of personnel has 
been exceedingly high.
Another revision states that the 
public relations and interfratemity coordinator must now be a 
fraternity president or a past 
president. In the past any mem
ber of CFP could hold the position. 
This change was made to give the 
position more prestiage and make 
sure the officer has had experi
ence with fraternity problems.
West Virginia University took 
first place in the fifth annual Tar
tan Debate Tournament held here 
at Tech Saturday, April 23, in Ad
ministration Hall. The womens 
team from Pitt won second 
with the Pitt mens team 
taking third.
Other participating schools were 
Dickinson College, Geneva Col
lege, Heidelberg College, Hiram
College, Juniata College, Kent
State University, Mount Mercy
College, Morgan State College,
University of Buffalo, Otterbein 
College, St. Vincent College, Wash
ington and Jefferson College, and 
Westminster College.
The 15 teams debated four 
rounds on the current intercollegi
ate topic: Resolved that the Unit
ed States extend diplomatic recog
nition to communist China. Jack 
Belkin served as chairman of the 
tournament and members of the 
Tech Veterans Club, a newly 
formed service organization, acted 
as timekeepers and chairmen for 
all the rounds.
Awards were made at a banquet 
held at the Carnegie Union in the 
evening. Dr. Wright, head of 
Techs English department, wel
comed the debaters, and the pre
sentations of the awards were 
made by Si Kellman.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 26, 1955
EditorialActivitiesUTTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibtar
A well known and much discussed 
problem confronting us on campus is that 
of student activities and what is wrong with 
them. This has worried people for consider
able time, and editorials, surveys, polls, ques
tionnaires, and unsolicited comments have 
expressed many and varied opinions on this 
subject from the earliest period in antiquity.
It is clear that student interest is extra
curricular activities is slightly less than sen
sational, and in most cases boils down to a 
glorious and unrestrained apathy. What can 
be done to correct this would be a little more 
difficult to explain, even if the answer was 
known.
Commuters cannot be expected to par
ticipate fully in campus activities and most 
of them dont. Freshmen often confine their 
extra-curricular participation to a fraterni
ty, if anything at all. Everyone else feels 
that he is overloaded with schoolwork al
ready and cant spare time for activities.
Last spring a special committee of facul
ty members was appointed to investigate 
what policies are directing student campus 
life and how they are working out in prac
tice. They were also to try to discover how 
activities might more effectively complement 
and reinforce what the classroom attempts 
to accomplish.
Their investigation is finished, and their report has been 
completed for some time, but it has disappeared from the 
scene. Most of the students have forgotten that there was 
ever such a committee appointed. Possibly the report is 
sjill under survey or possibly it stepped on some tender 
toes; nevertheless, the few who can remember when and 
why the committee was created would like to know what 
they found out. At a somewhat later date, there was a stu
dent committee appointed to make a similar investigation, 
and as yet, they have not completed their report.
The appointment of these committees was inspired by 
the complaints of the famed accrediting committee, who 
felt that Techs entire program of activities lacked integration 
with the educational program and provided poor opportuni
ties for student self-government or leadership training.
In the presidents report, which must be well considered 
because it comes out only once a year, r. Warner also 
expressed concern over campus activities. He observed that 
they should provide opportunities for the student to develop 
such qualities as a sense of community responsibility, fairmindedness and a respect for others, and enlightened lead
ership of his fellows. He said that they have not developed 
with enough regard for their relationship to what the stu
dent should learn in the classroom.
This seems to be the general consensus of opinion. But 
no plan for improvement has yet been devised or made 
known. The accrediting committee griped about Techs ac
tivities, interested students have always griped about them, 
the administration heard the complaints and appointed a 
committee, the committee has made a thorough survey of 
the situation, and completed a report, but the students are 
as yet no farther toward the solution than before. At least 
we would like to know what the committees report says.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MU seum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9430, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .......................................................................................................... Robert Russell
Business Manager ............................................................................ ................ Vie Shiry
News Editor ........................................................... .......................................................... Marjo King
Sports Editor ......... ............. .............. ..........  Tom Wright
Copy Editor ............................................ .......... .......... ............................................. Richard Fox
Features Editor .............................................................................................. Stephanie Mpckay
I guess I dont make the Kiltie Band, huh Professor!
Over The 
Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
President Eisenhower has given Jonas 
Salk, the Pitt polio cureall purveyor, a spe
cial award of merit. I think the president of 
Student Council should give a special award 
of merit to those people who, disregarding 
injury from burns, grease spots, and tooth
ache, so nobly hung the motorcycle in the 
tree in front of Skibo. At the very last, 
Mens Dorm Council should dedicate a plaque 
to these men who, so nobly, did this service 
for their fellow man. I still think they should 
have thrown the doggone noise maker off the 
Panther Hollow Bridge, but I tend to get car
ried away over something like this.
Now please dont misunderstand me. I 
have nothing personal against motorcycles 
or the people who drive them. Its just that 
myself and a few hundred other dorm resi
dents, dont like the noise they make at two 
in the morning or two in the afternoon when 
one is trying to sleep. Also, theres that gripe 
of parking the bikes in such a position that 
two automobile parking spaces are taken up 
very nicely. Oh well, long live Marlon 
Brando.* * * *
Attention all men! If yon haven't been re
ceiving any mail lately dont get shook. Its 
just about time for the sorority circulars to 
start coming in saying Vote for Greta Gar
bled for Carnival Queen or some bther such 
trite phrase. Carnival Queen campaigns, you 
know what they are. About a week before 
Carnival gets under way, the local beanery is 
turned into a real sexy night spot with kick 
lines that will rival the Rockettes, costumes 
that will shock the Latin Quarter, and dances 
that will put the Casino beauties to shame.
Sororities campaigns are based on the 
illogical rule that the more legs you show 
the guys, the more votes youll get. And 
brother youll see legs, all kind. Long ones, 
short ones, skinny ones, fat ones, look' like 
this ( ) and and like this ) (. Woodlawn will 
have a run on leg paint and if it rains, leg 
paint will run. All in all, every one will have 
a good time over the whole affair.
Afterall it isnt every day that the girls 
get to stand on a stage in Skibo and get wolf 
whistles, and it isnt every day that the guys 
see so many gams. And strangely enough, 
the group that has the most legs showing will 
win. This may be Carnegie Tech, but boys 
will be boys, and pretty legs still rate a vote 
on any ballot. Bring on the girlie girlies.
* * * *
Little Quickies. Congratulations to the 
kids in Much Ado About Nothing. Theyve
Assistant Business ManagerMarty Ostroff. Advertising ManagerBob Sorkin.
Circulation ManagerHarley Bembach. ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Marilyn Casey,
Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Joanne Babbitt, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson,
Carolou Fidder, Jane Moore, Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Dolores Chidester, Kay 
Melenyzer. Sports StaffJames Lacey, Dick Swaney. PhotographersBarbara Toia,
John Russell, Don Falk, Bill Sailing. Art StaffCarolyn Copp, Don Carter, Robert 
Connell. Copy StaffEd Rogers, Jack Recker, Carol Millson. Features StaffJoe 
Szewc, Marshall Pheil. Typists-Anne Barnes, Mary Langdon. Copy Runners
Ron Kohl, Jim Plugge. Circulation StaffAlan Hodel, Ira Levine. Advertising ^Qne a real neat job in making Shakespeare
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa. under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year. ^
WRCTSCHEDULE
Tuesday
7:30 a.m.Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Adventures in Research 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.Kiltie Band Concert 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Wednesday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00
7:15
7:308:00
9:0010:0011:00
11:05
11:55
p.m.Sign On, News 
p.m.Serenade in Blue 
p.m.Radio Federation 
p.m.Musical World 
p.m.Career Hour 
p.m.Music You Want 
p.m.News p.m.TGIF Club 
p.m.Sign Off
Saturday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
3:00 p.m.Matinee 
6:00 p.m.670 Club 
7:00 p.m.News 7:15 p.m.670 Club 
9:00 p.m.Reverie 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Reverie 11:55 p.m.Sign Off
7:00' p.m. 
7:15 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 
8:00 p.m 
9:00 p.m. 
10:00 p.m. 
11:00 p.m 
11:05 p.m 
11:55 p.m.
Sign On, News 
U. S. Navy Band 
,Encore 
,Greek Sing 
.Career Hour ,Music You Want 
-News
-Night Train 
,Sign Off
Thursday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Guest Star 7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.Ye Old Curiosity 
Shoppe 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Friday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
Sunday
1:45 p.m.Sign On, News 
2:00 p.m.Show Time 
3:00 p.m.Sunday Pops Concert 
5:30 p.m.Proudly We Hail 
6:00 p.m.News 6:05 p.m.Album of Favorite* 
7:00 p.m.Penthouse Serenade 
8:00 p.m.Freelance 
8:30 p.m.Concert Hall 
11:00 p.m.News 11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Monday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Interlude 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.211 Club 
8:30 p.m.Masterworks from 
France 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Max Shulman 
Booklets
The widespread popular appeal of the weekly 
Max Shulman college column is a selected list of 
college papers from coast to coast has resulted in 
a compilation of college papers from coast to coast 
has resulted in a compilation of six of his most 
popular columns into an attractive, slick, pocketsized souvenir booklet now available at tobacco 
counters on or near college campuses.
The attractively-designed booklet has a red, 
white and black cover with a cartoon caricature of 
Shulman, six of the prolfic authors favorite col
umns, some brand-new material and a profuse as
sortment of appropriate cartoons.
Shulman, whose literary road from the Uni
versity of Minnesota to Broadway and Hollywood 
has made him one of the best-liked and most 
widely-read writers in the country, discusses in 
these off-beat college campus columns such seri
ous subjectspeculiar to all campusesas dirndl 
skirts on co-eds, campus contests and B.M.O.C.s.
A survey of college editors and readers brought 
such a literal nod of approval that, Philip Mor
ris compiled the souvenir booklet of these Shul
man columns: I Was Awarded A Ribbon And 
Promptly Put It In My Typewriter, What Every 
Young CorEd Should Wear, Clothes Make The 
B.M.O.C.Science Made Simple: No. 1, Sci
ence Made Simple: No. 2, and The Treehouse of 
the August Moon.* * *
Editors Note: The approach used by Phillip 
Morris in advertising their product in College news
papers is indeed refreshing. It is our opinion that 
the Max Shulman articles attract more attention, 
are worth more per dollar spent-to the advertiser 
than any other advertisement. Instead of trying to 
overpower the reader with claims, counter claims, 
or statistics they are satisfied to give the students 
what they want.
Much the same could be said about the Lucky 
Strike Doodles advertisement. Perhaps other largescale advertisers should follow their example.
really enjoyable . . . The track team hasnt 
lost a dual meet in over four and a half years 
.. . Notice how fast the large signs for Spring 
Carnival advertisement are disappearing . . . 
Question. Is the pizza craze still on? I re
member two years ago when everyone 
screamed for the insidious pie and even went 
so far as to go to pizzerias after formals. I 
understand this still goes on but not to such 
a hectic degree . . . Overheard in Morewood: 
I always wear my prettiest undies. You 
never can tell when youll be run down or 
picked up by an automobile. . . . How many 
people on Techs campus can really Mambo? 
. . . Rumor has it that a secret group is plan
ning to stock Morewoods pond with tadpoles. 
If this happens, remember, you read it here 
first... I say it will rain for Spring Carnival. 
Anybody want to bet?

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 26, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPagre S
TUXEDO 
RENTALS
Complete Outfit Including Coat, Trousers, 
Shirt, Studs, Cuff Links, Bow Tie, Sash
< ft jpp.....ijm
FREE FREE
Alterations Alterations
v===s=a> ^ i-1
NO EXTRA BOND CHARGE
NIFTY FORMAL WEAR
Corner 8th and Amity Sts., Homestead
Open Every Evening Till 9 P.M.
Win Over Case Makes It 30 Straight
----------------  T
Gillies, Jones, And Muller Lead 
* Thinclads To88-39 Case Victory
In the spring of 1951, Carnegie Tech traveled to Cleveland Heights 
to face Case Tech in a track meet. The Tartans emerged the winners 
and by so doing, they started a winning streak that now stands at 
30 consecutive duel meets. That meet four years ago was won by one
point, but Saturdays meet re-4--------------------------------------------------
vealed a different outcome as the 
Skibos of Coach Bob Carman 
swamped Case 88 to 39. Winning 
11 out of 15 events, the thinclads 
^ were never threatened.
Coach Carman called on his un
tried freshman after it 
dent that the meet was 
hand. Veterans Mai Gillies and 
John Muller had a comfortable 
day, as neither were pressed 
capture their usual firsts in the 
quarter, half and mile races, 
only running events the Tartans 
failed to nail down were the 
and 220, as well as the discus 
broad jump in the field.
Adding new life to the Skibo 
field attack was Norm Smilek, a 
3-2 planner from Geneva, who 
cleared the bar in the pole vaul 
at 11 ft. 6 in. Ward Jones con
tinued to dominate Tartan field 
men as he scored 8 pts., good for 
field men, and coached Jack 
Recker, newcomer to Techs field 
team, to a second in the shot put.
The cause of Case was spear) headed by Ed Hahn and Dave 
Pirnack, who offered the Tartans 
their only competition. Hahn was 
good for a first in the broad 
jump, 2 seconds and a leg in the 
220 relay, while Pirnack placed 
behind Hahn in the broad jump 
and almost erased Muller in a 
thrilling tape drive in the low 
hurdles.
Lawrence and William Bryant 
continued their winning style in 
(the distant events, while Dave 
Brodine a find from last years 
intramural track meet, paced him
self to positions in the mile and 
half mile. Frank Smith, flashy 
little dash man from south of the 
Mason-Dixon, ran beautifully in 
the 880 relay but pulled up lame 
in the 100. The Georgia Colonel
Mai dad Gillies showing the 
form that he will exhibit this aft
ernoon in his duel with Homer 
Weaver of Geneva.
had a good day Friday in a gruel
ing football scrimmage, but 
sustained a bruising muscle in
jury in the leg that cropped up 
after Frank finished the 100 yard 
dash.
Track Events
Mile RunGillies (CT); 2-W. 
Bryant (CT); 3-Brodine (CT), 
Time 4:33.6.
440-Yard Dash1-Muller (CT); 
2-Hahn (C); Heinecke (CT). Time 
:52.0.
100-Yard Dash  1-Shumaker 
(C); 2-Smith (CT); Drage (CT). 
Time :10.4.
120-Med. High Hurdles  1- 
Stofan (CT); 2-Muller (CT); 
Pirnade (C). Time :16.3.
tContinued on page 6]
Tartans After 
Number 31 
Against Geneva
Today the Tartans will be 
shooting for their 31st straight 
victory as they take 
Weaver and Geneva in 
at 4:00 p.m. All eyes 
on the mile and half mile 
as Weaver and Dad Gilbattle it out to the wire. Last 
year Mai beat Weaver at Geneva, 
lost out at Tri-State. This 
year in cross-country Gillies and 
Weaver almost sprinted two miles 
of a four and a hajf mile course 
with Weaver emerging the victop 
by a little more than a second.
Mai is in great shape and has 
been running his first half at 
2:08 and better; with Weaver in 
race pushing him, a 4:20 or 
better may be in the making.
Todays meet ought to make the 
Tartan reporter grab for his rec
ord book, as Geneva, one of the 
[Continued on page 6]
Links Men 
Lose Match To 
Mountaineers
With their opening match with 
the Prexies of W & J rained out, 
the Taitans traveled south to 
Morgantown, W. Va., Friday to 
meet the Mountaineers at the 
Morgantown Country Club.
The Mountaineei's, who are un
defeated in four starts took the 
measure of the Tartans, 8-1 with 
West Virginias .George Petite 
medalist for the day with a 73. 
Medalist for the Tech linkemen 
was Tom Schorr with a score of 
77.
This coming Tuesday the Tar
tans will be at home as they play 
host to Grove City at the Alcoma 
Country Club.
The plaid gridders ending their spring practice with a hard
hitting intra-squad game.
Depth In Forward Wall Missing As 
Team Faces Tough Schedule In Fcdl
In their final workout of the spring practice session, the Tartan 
gridders held an intra-squad game, and showed the few on hand the 
power-laden backfield.
The drill was characterized by plenty of hustle and hard block
ing, though the line was a little ?
light. The forward wall of the 
Plaid suffered the heaviest losses 
due to graduation, transfers, and 
injuries, with Wenzgryn, Mc
Carthy, Thomas, Williamson, and 
Schell conspicuously absent. The 
first string line is adequate, but 
the_ depth that the Tartans had 
last fall is missing.
Probable replacements in the 
line for next fall will be Tag'liavani, Capul, Kohan, and Weaver. 
The backfield is rather crowded 
at this point with Quatse and 
Brown fighting for the fullback 
position and Briner and Colonel
Smith hustling for Eddie Millers 
halfback position. DeVries and 
Tucci seem pretty well fixed at 
their respective positions.
The schedule for next fall is 
much tougher than the one en
countered this past season, and 
the 1955 version of the Plaid 
really will have to get out and 
hustle to match last years record. 
With a lighter line and a tougher 
schedule, this will be quite a 
feat.
Our Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration, founded 
by William Larimer Mellon, is the 
first graduate school of its kind 
in the county.
50 million
1. SO BRIGHT ... so right for 
you ... so tangy in taste, 
ever-fresh in sparkle.
2. SO BRACING ... so quickly 
refreshing with its bit of 
wholesome energy.
BOTTIED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPAN OF PITTSBURGH 6722 Center Avenue Hlland 1-1011
"Cok*" It a registered trade-mark.  1955, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
times a day 
at home, at work 
or while at play
Theres 
nothing 
like a

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 26, 1955
Action in one of the few soccer games played last week.
Rain, Rain Go Away 
IMTeamsHave ToPlay
The spring rains have put a damper on the spirits of the soccer 
players who have patiently been waiting for the sun to break through 
the local fog. and put the field in some sort of playing shape. With the 
number of rescheduled games on the increase, it is hard to determine
the league standings but we do*
hope to have some idea of the 
standings by the next issue. How
ever, it is evident that more con
fusion will be added to the scene 
with the opening of softball this 
Wednesday.
The best thing that could happen 
locally would be that old man rain 
would take his rain and go West 
where they are praying for a few 
drops to fall on the dust bowls and 
give the soccer bowls a chance to 
dry out so the play can go on. An
other week like the past and we 
will have to come up with some 
new kind of sport which will in
corporate both che soccer and the 
softball diamond. This might
Geneva
[Continued from page 5] 
districts better track teams, 
will provide plenty of competi
tion. Maybe Tech fans will witalong with another record break
ing performance from John Mul
ler.
Saturday April 30 the Thin
clads will be at Grove City to 
face a rough Grover team that 
Tech barely beat last year, tak
ing only seven out of 15 firsts. 
Tuesday, May 3, the Tartans will 
be back home for a meet with 
the Prexies of W & J, and hope 
to be shooting for their 33rd dual 
meet victory.
LET'S GO TO
ISA L Y 5
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
5808 FORBES STREET
qVTBBEL BILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAK
Three Stores in the College 
District
Main Plant:
338 BLVD. of the ALLIES
prove a solution to the confused 
intramural schedule.
Tech Netters 
Down Dukes
The netmen of Carnegie Tech 
opened their season with an easy 
win over the boys from Duquesne by a score of 7-2. This was 
the first game of this season and 
the fifth win in what the team 
hopes will fee another long win
ning streak. In the singles, Miller, 
Rugeimer, Rowley, Dussair, and 
Schaul all won their games, while 
Demagone of the Dukes copped 
their only singles victory.
The doubles teams turned in the 
same satisfactory performance 
and the boys from Tech had only 
one doubles loser in the after
noons work. The netmen have 
started off the year with a bang 
and from all indications it looks 
like it will be a very promising 
season. This week finds the netters 
playing Grove City on April 25 
and the Prexies from W & J on 
April 30, both of which will be 
home games.
7Carnegie Tech......................Duquesne2
SINGLES
Miller, Carnegie Tech, defeated Black, 
3-6, 6-2, 6-3; Demagone, Duquesne, de
feated Glaser, 5-7, 6-4, 6-1; Rugeimer, 
Carnegie Tech, defeated Green, 6-7, 6-4, 
6-3; Rowley, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Mench, 6-4, 6-3; Dussair, Carnegie Tech, 
defeated Scioille, -2, 6-3; Schaul, Car
negie Tech, defeated Smith, 6-0, 6-2. 
DOUBLES
Black and Demagone, Duquesne, de-, 
feater Miller and Glasser, -2, 6-0; Rugei
mer and Dussair, Carnegie Tech, defeat
ed Green and Mench, 6-1. 6-4; Rowley 
and Wickham, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Scioille and Kelly, 6-2, 6-4.
Track
[Continued from page 5]
Half-mile Run1-Gillies (Tech) 
Hahn (C); Bodine (CT); Time 
:23.3.
220-Yard runShumaker (C); 
Draje (CT); Griffin (C). Time 
23.3.
180-Yard low hurles  Muller 
(CT); Pernack (C); Mihn (CT). 
Time :20.8.
Two-mile runL. Bryant (CT); 
W. Bryant (CT); Driscoll (CT). 
Time 11:00.4.
Mile relayDirk, Heinehe, Kis
sel, Muller (CT). Time 3:42.4.
880-yard relayHeineke, Smith, 
Mihm, Muller (CT). Time 1:34.4. 
Field Events 
Shot PutJones (CT); Reiher 
(CT) Steadman (C). 40 feet 1^ 
inches.
High JumpFrank and Chuck 
(CT); Steadman (C), and Hauser
(CT) tied third. 5 feet 1*4 inches.
Discus  Wilmer (C); Jones 
(CT); Fetler (CT). 117 feet 1Y*
inches.
Broad JumpHahn (C); Pirnach (C); Mihm (CT). 20 feet 1 
inch.
Pole VaultSmileh (CT); Mihely (C); Zuckerwar (CT), and 
Licht (C) tied third. 11 feet 6 
inches. .
The lost and found department 
is located in the Dean of Mens 
office, Room 158 in AH.
Exams
The review date for the 
spring semester, Wednesday, 
May 25, 1955, is to be elimi
nated. It will become the first 
day of exams.
WHATS THIS? For solution see paragraph below*
RAINBOW SUN BY NUN STANDING ON HEADDuane B. Cummings South Dakota State College
//
7r
ARE YOU METICULOUS about your choice of cigarettes?
Do you want exactly the right taste? Then take a hint 
from the Droodle above, titled: Ash tray belonging to 
very tidy Lucky smoker. Luckies taste neat and for 
excellent reasons. First of all. Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to taste better. 
It?s Toasted" is the famous Lucky Strike 
process that tones up Luckies light, 
good-tasting tobacco to make it taste 
even better *.. cleaner, fresher, smoother.
So enjoy yourself thoroughly whenever 
its light-up time. Light up the bettertasting cigarette .. . Lucky Strike.
D BOODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Pdo*
"Heftea taste Luckies...
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER
CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
T. Co, product or c^eAUKIIC/Tl LAOtNO MfcNUrj

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 26, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ..................................................................................... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ....................................................................... Jim Soltis
Reporters..............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polina, John Van Holt, Jr.
District Catholic Students Plan 
Marys Day Rally For Sunday
On Sunday evening, May 1, Catholic students from Carnegie 
Tech, Pitt, Duquesne, Mt. Mercy and P.C.W. will participate in a 
procession and program honoring the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Marys Day Rally will be held at Mount Mercy College, 
Sunday, May 1, at 8 p.m. The* 
purpose of this rally is two-fold; 
first, a just and lasting peace 
throughout the world, and second
ly, a counter-measure to com
munist Russias May Day celebrations.
The program consists of a ser
mon and hymns to Mary to be 
held in Antonian Hall. The speak
er for the occasion will be Father 
Ford of St. Pauls Cathedral. 
Following this, the entire assem
bly will walk in a candle-light 
procession, reciting the Rosary. 
Solemn Benediction of the Blessed 
Sacrament will be given at an 
outdoor altar by Bishop Dearden, 
Bishop of the Pittsburgh Diocese.
It is gratifying to note that 
Tech students of both day and 
evening Newman Clubs, are be
hind this effort 100% and many 
have volunteered their services to 
help. Mt. Mercy College students 
will act as hostesses for this 
rally.
Evening Students 
Like Japanese 
Theme For Tea
Newman Club To 
Hold Banquet At 
Union On May 15
A joint meeting of the day and 
evening school Newman Clubs, 
was held Friday evening, April 
15, 1955. The purpose of this 
meeting was to plan a banquet
Evening Student Council PointsEvenmg^Tennis
The following is a tabulation of Evening Student Council 
points earned through February. Should you find an error in your 
points or have any question, please contact your Plaid editor or Matt 
Bertovich, of the Student Council.
Ray Schwalm34Ellen Gonter12
Ed Daly261/4Jean Woods18
Bill Bond9Ray Klimas13%
Kathy Galligan25C. Keller6
John Van Holt9%Gini Ross24
Edna Thorwart22%Emily Muhic25%
Chuck Labee1Joan Mack22%
George Schussler8Elvira Loreski13
Frank Polma29Lydia Liston123/4Ralph Czernik36 y4N. Primozich4
Bill Groll25Dee Hoffer2
Dolores Neff52G. Scharenberger5%Vic Sabol15%Walt Bachmayer3
Jim Soltis24%John Elias2
Floyd Byers25Andy Spizak1
Matt Bertovich49%D. Gartner1
Lillian Staub9%P. Garrity3
M. A. Peterson21Lois Conley2%Ken Pore13%Norene Conley2
George Bogovich24%A. Lassman5
Mel Lux2Audrey Wiskow5%L. Janicek10%Eileen Wolf53/4Thorn6%Jack Fisher7%Vince Golobic31Lorraine Stahle1
Byron May42W. Bartoli9
Pat Renkawek29Laverne Manion7%
Group Proposed
Attention all tennis-playing 
evening students: anyone inter
ested in playing tennis with a 
group this summer is most wel
come to come out to our first 
game which will take place on 
Sunday afternoon, May 8, 1955, 
at 2:00 p.m. Everyone is invited 
both pros and amateurs. We will 
meet at Administration Hall at 
2:00 p.m., collect the whole group, 
and from there go to the courts.
to be co-sponsored by both 
groups. The affair will take place 
at Carnegie Union on Sunday eve
ning, May 15.
Members constituting the joint 
committee are: John Van Holt,
Mary Ann LeDonne, Edna Thorwart, Bill Bond, Bill Groll, Chuck 
Labee, Chester Tempolski, Paul 
Siefert, John Senko, Mike Mc
Ginnis, Ed Daly, and Kathy Galli
gan.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup
plies and equipment for the 
Spring Semester 1955 cannot 
be honored by the Bookstore 
after May 15, 1955.
Extremely High Discounts 
and Trade In Allowances
Arranged For Carnegie Tech
Students and 
Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles 
and Used Cars of Every Type 
Contact Wally Donoghue 
103 Welch Hall  Box 337 CIT 
MU 3-0242
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Evening Student, Council and 
Phi Gamma Pi sorority held an 
afternoon tea at the Carnegie Un
ion on Sunday, April 17. The 
highlight of the afternoon was a 
series of colored slides shown 
by Mr. and Mrs. Ken Ferguson. 
The slides were taken by Mr. 
Perguson while he was on duty 
in Japan. The pictorial tour of 
Japan took everyone into many 
religious temples, through the 
market places to the homes, and 
along scenic river banks. After 
along scenic river banks.
To continue the Japanese 
theme, Phi Gamma Pi served 
chop suey and tea to the group. 
At each table were little Japanese 
parasols and the center table had 
tiny figurines backed by a floral 
display. This afternoons tea was 
one of the most unique affairs 
of the season.
to college students
 16 pages  fully illustrated.
 Covers atomic energy from 
subs and aircraft to pluto
nium production and atomic 
power plants for electricity.
 For your free booklet, write: 
General Electric Co., Dept. 
2-119N, Schenectady, N. Y.
 bcoirr & Mrm bcoiir ibLargest selling cigarette in America's colleges
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and OrchestraThe
CHESTERFIELD 
today!
You'll SMILE your approval 
of Chesterfield's smoothness 
mildnessrefreshing taste.
You'll SMILE your approval 
of Chesterfield's quality 
highest quality low nicotine.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, April 26, 1955
Religious Activities
Tuesday, April 26
Lutheran Students Association: 11:30 a.m. in the Donner Hall 
lounge. Discussion group on the subject: Basic Christian Teachings 
led by Pastor Earl T. Knaus.
Lutheran Students Association: 12:30 p.m. in the Dorm Council 
room, Morewood Gardens. Seminar on the subject: Church History 
led by Pastor Donald Gruenburg.
Westminster Foundation: Dinner meeting at 5:30 at the Bellefield Presbyterian Church. Speaker: Dr. Robert J. Lamont of the 
First Presbyterian Church.
Lutheran Students Association: dinner meeting at 6:00 p.m. at 
St. Andrews Lutheran ChurchRobert M. Hite Memorial Service 
beginning at 7:45 p.m. The Reverend J. Victor Murtland, a former 
student pastor, will speak on Dedication of Life.
Wednesday, April 27
Wesley Fellowship: Dinner meeting at the First Methodist Church, 
corner of Center and Aiken, at 6:00 p.m. The guest speaker will be a 
member of the Tech faculty.
Teknon Club: Final meeting of the year. Dinner will start at 5:30 
p.m. at the Shadyside Presbyterian Church, followed by election of 
officers. The only remaining Teknon function this spring will be a 
picnic in May.
Thursday, April 28
12:30 p.m. worship service for all students at the Emmaus Chapel, 
Canterbury House. Lunch will be served afterwards at a low price. 
Everyone is invited to attend. Services this week will be conducted by 
the Lutheran Students Association.
Colonel Baer To 
Speak April 26 
On Army Methods
Colonel Charles M. Baer, Sec
ond Army Signal Officer, from 
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland, 
will be the principal speaker at 
a meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of Armed Forces Com
munications and Electronics As
sociation to be held at Tech Tues
day evening, April 26.
A graduate of the Military 
Academy, Colonel Baer is a World 
War II veteran with over twentythree years of military service. 
During the early part of World 
War II, he was in charge of engi
neering, constructing, operating 
and maintaining air base and 
radar site communications plants 
in Jamaica, British West Indies. 
He later served as signal officer 
with the Puerto Rican and Antilles 
Departments, and is now signal of
ficer with Second Army Headquar
ters.
The topic of Colonel Baers 
address will be The Story of the 
Organization for Telecommuni
cations from the Joint Chief of 
Staff level through the National 
Government Structure. Follow
ing the formal meeting, at which 
Colonel Baer will be the princi
pal speaker, ROTC cadets will 
conduct a demonstration of the 
latest Army Signal Corps equip
ment.
Spring Party
The next meeting of the In
ternational Club is to be the 
spring party on Thursday, 
April 28, from 8:00 p.m. until 
12:00 midnight in the Carnegie 
Union.
There will be dancing and 
e n t ertainment; refreshments 
will be served.
Students, faculty, and all in
terested persons are invited!
. 1. Straoldi Tobacco O.. Wlniton-S!. M. O.
Mooney
[Continued from page I] 
wishes, apprenticed himself to a 
linotype operator on the Detroit 
News.
Music Interest Not Lost
As a side line, more for kicks 
than for the money he earned, Art 
frequently worked dates with 
some of the Detroit bands. He be
gan to dream of fronting a bigtime band of his own. Sometimes, 
while making up ads for visiting 
name bands, hed put his own 
name in place of the real leader, 
just to see how it would look. One 
day a playful switch of this type 
went through by mistake, and an 
ad which was supposed to an
nounce the of Glenn Miller at 
the Box came out to herald the 
appearance of one Art Mooney 
and Band. The incident cost Art
his job and also launched one of 
the most fabulous careers in the 
band business.
The incomparable Walt Harp
er and his really great local band 
will present the music for the 
street dance to.be held the Friday 
evening of Carnival weekend in 
the front of Engineering and Sci
ence. Walt, at present very popu
lar in this area, has a daily radio 
program on WHOD. During inter
mission, entertainment will be pre
sented by Bob Hamilton and his 
quartet.
Tech graduates who have ex
celled in the business field, in
clude R. L. Stevenson, vice-presi
dent of Remington Rand; Herman 
Weckler, vice-president of Chrys
ler Corporation; Carl H. Kindi, 
vice-president of GM; and James 
Los, vice-president of United 
States Steel.
Summer
[Continued from page 1] 
Master of Fine Arts. Individual 
lessons in voice, piano, organ, 
violin, cello, woodwind and brass 
instruments will be available.
In the department of painting 
and design, the summer session 
stresses diversity. Practicing ar
tists provide courses for begin
ners, art teachers and the ama
teur or Sunday painter.
Summer courses offered by the 
department of psychology and 
education also afford opportunities 
for teachers to broaden their 
background and to fulfill require
ments for certification.
Detailed information on other 
courses offered in the Carnegie 
summer sessions may be obtain
ed by contacting the Director of 
Summer Sessions, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
COLLEGE TO COLLEGE, COAST TO COASTLIGHT WEIGHTTUXEDOS
POWDER BLUE JACKETS
AND
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
Complete Rental Service For Your 
Spring Carnival Dance
STUDENT DISCOUNT
WINSTON tastes good like a cigarette should
 No wonder so many college men and women are getting ton^Torrnv
gether on Winston! Its the filter cigarette with real flavor WINSTON
full, rich, tobacco flavor! And Winston also brings you a finer f/y_/?
filter. It works so effectively, yet doesnt thin the taste. ' , *------5^-----------^ir
Winstons are easy-drawing, too  theres no effort to puff!(uart&ti /
5328939328289353539393282853532893935353289353532828289393535328935340539393535353539328
