w
Petitions Available 
For
Spring ElectionsT 
See Page 3
VOL. 46No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1953
KKG, SN Win Greek Sins Contest
Council Opposed To TV Ban 
On SnS By Administration
by Dick Franklin ?
By unanimous vote Student Council expressed the opinion that, 
on the basis of the Tartan article of last week, Scotch n Soda is 
getting a bum deal from the administration. Council considered this 
Vote only as sufficient evidence that a more thorough investigation 
Should be carried out and, on the4 
basis of the results, recommend to 
the administration that it recon
sider its decision.
This particular view of Council 
seems to be a very mature one.
Here they are determined to get 
the facts and then review them. If 
then they decide the facts are such 
to indicate that SnS got a raw 
deal then it appears that there 
will be many pow-wows between 
the administration and Student 
Council. There isnt much that can 
be done this year, for in all prob
ability Ward Vallani already has 
its schedule filled.^ Council can 
only hope to prevent a recur
rence next year.
New Constitution?
During the course of normal 
business Student Council approved 
the budget for this years Spring 
Carnival. Carnival committee has 
cut much of last years expendi
tures where it was felt that it 
could be done without noticeable 
effect on the weekend. All this 
was done in an effort to get the 
best possible dance orchestra 
available.
Council has for a long time been 
laboring under an outdated con
stitution, which has its origin in 
the days of bitter rivalry between 
the fraternities and independents.
The present Constitution has in
ternal contradictions, is vague, and 
is quite incomplete. The by-laws 
[Continued on page 2]
Freshmen
A series of guidance meet
ings will be held this semes
ter, during the Tuesday as
sembly periods (11:30) in the 
Carnegie Theatre (Fine Arts 
building) on the dates indi
cated below, for all freshmen 
enrolled in the engineering, 
science, and management departments. Attendance by 
printing management students 
is voluntary; for all others, at
tendance at all meetings is re
quired.
The purpose of these meet
ings is to help orient you in 
respect to the various profes
sions which comprise engi
neering and science, and to 
help make you the best choice 
of department at CIT.
March 24: General Meeting 
(Dean W. N. Jones).
April 14: Chemistry (Dr. F. 
D. Rossini); Physics (Dr. J. 
G. Fox); Mathematics (Dr. D. 
Moskovitz).
April 21: Civil Engineering 
(Dr. F. T. Mavis); Electrical 
Engineering (Dr. E. M. Wil
liams); Mechanical Engineer
ing (Dr. D. W. VerPlanck).
April 28: Chemical Engi
neering (Dr. C. C. Monrad); 
M e t a 11 u rgical Engineering 
(Dr. R. F. Mehl); Industrial 
Management (Dr. H. A. 
Simon).
Cameron Choir 
Plans Concert
Varied Program To Be 
Presented On March 20
The Cameron Choir will pre
sent its Spring Concert in Car
negie music hall on Friday, March 
20, at 8:30 p.m.
A varied program is planned for 
the performance. Several lightclassical numbers will be includ
ed: With a Song in My Heart, a 
choral selection from Oklahoma 
by Richard Rodgers, and a medley 
of Victor Herbert favorites. The 
Gandy Dancers Ball provides a 
light touch in contrast to Palestri
nas Alma Redemptoris Mater, 
which will be sung in Latin.
In addition to the variety of se
lections by the mixed group, the 
Clansmen and Highlandettes will 
perform separately. An organpiano duet and several vocal solos 
will round out the program.
This concert will mark the sec
ond season of the Cameron Choirs 
existence. The Choir was formed 
last year, combining the Mens 
Glee Club and the Womens Glee 
Club. Dale Alexy, accompanist and 
student director, and Eunice 
Brunn, manager, are among those 
who were members before the 
merger. Mr. Richard L. Camp, the 
director, has also been with the 
Choir since its formation.
Tickets may be purchased from 
any member of the Choir or at 
the door. The assessment is 75 
cents, tax included.
No Tartan
Due to the approach of mid
semester _ exams, the Tartan 
staff will be idle next week ip 
favor of catching up on schoolwork. The next issue of the 
paper will appear on March 
31.
SnS Crew Calls 
In Thistle Hall 
Sunday, March 22
On this coming Sunday, March 
22, all students interested in 
working one of the Scotch n 
Soda crews for thrs springs pro
duction of Shoot the Works are 
invited to a social in Thistle hall 
at 3 p.m.
Personnel is needed to aid in 
stage managing, painting, costume 
designing and construction, scen
ery building, and many others.
The results of the casting calls 
will be posted on the bulletin 
board outside Skibo early this 
week. The first rehearsals time 
will also be announced at that 
time.
Scholarships
Scholarship applications for 
the academic year 1953-54 are 
now available in the Dean of 
Mens office. They are to be 
returned no later than April 
10, 1953.
Thetas and DUs Take 
Second Place in Event
A capacity crowd jammed the Syria Mosque last Satur
day night at the annual Greek Swing. Dancing to the music 
of Bill LeRoy and his orchestra, the students highlight of the 
evening came at the 11:00 p.m. intermission when six trophies
were awarded to the winners of 
the Sing competition.
KKG and SN Win 
Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority 
and. Sigma Nu fraternity were the 
first place winners. The Kappas, 
directed by Margaret McCaul, had 
sung Das Sandmuchen and
Greek Sing Winners
Kappas and Sigma Nus Receive Cups
Marvin Farber To Present 2nd 
In Philosophy Lecture Series
Professor Marvin Farber, chairman of the department of philo
sophy at the University of Buffalo and an outstanding lecturer on 
philosophy, will present a series of three lectures on Reason and 
Its Evasion in Contemporary Philosophy at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, April 13 and 14 in the*
School of Industrial Administra
tion auditoriuih.
The lectures, which are open to 
the public, are a continuation of 
the highly successful series started 
last year at Carnegie when Dr.
Herbert Feigl, professor of philos
ophy at the University of Minne
sota and a leading exponent of 
logical positivism, appeared as fea
tured speaker.
Phenomenology 
The schedule for the lectures is 
as follows: April 13 at 8:00 p.m.,
The Main Trend of Philosophy in 
the. Twentieth Century; April 14 
at 3:00 p.m., Subjectivism and 
the New Irrationalism; April 14 
at 8:00 p.m., Existence and Hu
man Values.
Professor Farber, an authority 
of phenomenology although not a 
phenomenologist himself, is the edDiscussion
Tuesday evening, March 17 
at 7:30 p.m., the Black Cat will 
be the scene of the APO re
ligious discussion meeting. 
Rev. Perry Porter will be the 
speaker. This is an open meet
ing and everyone is invited to 
attend.
itor of the international quarterly, 
Philosophy and Phenomenological 
Research. He did three years post 
graduate work in Germany, study
ing under Edmund Husserl^ orig
inator of the German phenomeno
logical school. As a result, Profes
sor Farber later collaborated on 
and was editor of Philosophical Es
says in Memory of Edmund Hus
serl (1940). He is also author of 
Phenomenology as a Method and 
as a Philosophical Discipline 
(1928) and The Foundation of 
Phenomenology (1943).
Other Works
On the invitation of the Rocke
feller Foundation, he visited 
France and Belgium in 1947 and 
collaborated on the volume, Philos
ophic Thought in France and the 
United States (1950).
He is also co-author and co-edi
tor of Philosophy for the Future
(1949) and contributor to Twen
tieth Century Philosophy (1943) 
and philosophie, the UNESCOsponsored French publication.
- President of the International 
Phenomenological society since! 
1940, Professor Farber is currently 
serving on the executive commit1 
tee of the American Philosophical j 
association.
He received both his bachelor of ; 
science degree and Ph.D. from i 
Harvard university.
Hopssa at the Sing on Friday 
night in the Carnegie Music hall. 
Led by John Hull, the Sigma Nus 
won for their singing of The 
Minstrel Boy and I Wont Kiss 
Katy. Each of these groups sang 
their second song at the Swing 
intermission.
Second place for the sororities 
was awarded to Kappa Alpha 
Theta. Mary Jane Troop conduct
ed the Thetas in their rendition 
of Little Boy Blue and Heres 
a Toast to KAT. Delta Upsilon 
won second place in the fraternity 
competition for theilr singing of 
The Song of the Jolly Roger 
and Steal Away. Their leader 
was Richard Gerrero.
Mosque Decorated
Alpha Epsilon Phi place third 
among the sororities for their ren
dition of Three Little Maids and 
Little Liza Jane, conducted by 
Roslyn Rudner. Third place for 
the fraternities was awarded to 
Phi Kappa, under the direction of 
Joseph Ceo, for their songs, Make 
Believe and Youll Nevfer Walk 
Alone.
The Mosque was decorated Sat
urday night with a paper maiche 
fountain with silver tinsel ex
tensions from the center draped 
along the sides. Fraternity and 
sorority crests adorned the front 
[Continued on page 31
Orchestra To 
Give Concert
The student orchestra of Carne
gie Techs music department will 
present a concert at 8:30 p.m. on 
Wednesday, March 18, at Carnegie 
Music Hall. Mr. Robert B. Cantrick, assistant professor of mu
sical education at Carnegie will 
conduct.
The program will open with 
Symphony No. 1 in C Major, Op. 
21, by Beethoven, followed by 
Symphonic Variations by Franck 
with George Walter as piano solo
ist.
[Continued on page 3]
Contest
In accordance with the re
cent personal appearance of 
Vaughn Monroe at CIT, there 
is also a contest being spon
sored to pick the prettiest co
ed in the nation.
After the current Monroe 
tour is completed. Vaughn 
Monroe will choose from pic
tures submitted the nations 
prettiest co-ed. Her picture 
and story will be serviced na
tionally.
In order to enter someone in 
this contest send an 8 by 10 
picture of the prettiest girl 
you know to the Tartan 
through intra-school mail. The 
Tartan staff will then decide 
who is to represent Tech and 
pass her picture along IM 
Vaughn Monroe.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 17, 1953
Austrian Election Indicates 
Trend From Communism
by Professor Robert Schwarz
Whenever an election takes place in a non-Communist European 
country, the world watches for signs of an increase or decrease in 
the Communist vote. When the country is so close to the iron cur
tain that its eastern provinces are behind it, as is the case with 
Austria, the interest is even stronger. It is true that in Austria the 
Communists have always made a poor showing, principally because 
of the magnificent organization, urban popularity, and efficiency of 
the Social Democrats. But the election held in Austria the other day 
evoked real concern because the Communists had left no stone un
turned to augment their seats in parliament.
Balloting Shows Trend 
The outcome of the balloting shows the same trend which we 
have noted in other European democracies in the past two or three 
years: a weakening of the Communist vote. The encouraging part of 
the matter in this case is that the weakening of the Communist 
position was implemented without an enlargement of the extreme 
light. Not only did the Communists lose strength but also the Inde
pendents, who in Austria make up the remnants of reactionaries, 
Nazis, and Pan-Germans.
Who gained strength then? The Social Democrats. The Peoples 
party (conservative, clerical, and bourgeois) just about held its own. 
The Social Democrats emerged as the real victors. This was their 
second triumph since the war, the first being their winning the presi
dential plebiscite some two years ago. ^
Aim For Chancellorship 
Intensely anti-Communist, the Social Democrats, like the Labour 
party in England, want reform and social legislation to raise the 
living standard, in order to avoid the spread of Communism. They 
are not happy with the occupation but would rather put up with the 
western powers than see their country overrun by the Soviets. In 
this they agree with their coalition partners, the Peoples party. Hav
ing come to within one seat short of numerical equality with the 
Peoples party in parliament, they are within re^tch, for the first time 
since the 1920s, of the Chancellorship.
Dr. Figl, the present Peoples party Chancellor, is still in office, 
but he must feel the hot breath of the Social Democrats on his neck. 
As the cities grow (especially the provincial capitals), the Peoples 
party, which is sustained mostly in the rural areas, will probably 
lose more strength in the future. ,
As a test case of European politics, the Austrian election of this 
winter was a significant token of anti-Communist orientation and of 
the viability of continental socialism.
Council
[Continued from page 2] 
committee has taken the job of 
straightening out this mess. Dras
tic chahges are expected in the 
near future. It is quite probably 
that the entire constitution will be 
revised.
Old Parking Trouble 
One of the long kicked around 
problems of Council has been the 
parking problem. One of the main
issues, aside from the lack of 
spaces, has been the miss-use of 
the existing spaces. After detail
ed planning. Goetzman and Plic of 
the parking committee submitted 
to Council a revised drawing of 
the parking lot containing the best 
solution to date for increasing the 
facilities of the lot as well ease 
of use.
With Councils approval this 
plan will be submitted to Mr. Mil
ler of the Maintenance depart
ment.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
TIME SHOP
On
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
/\ndon,y n j L/th Cty au,b
usly, there's o ftV ESHO IMSeriously, there's o 
firm, comfortable 
feel to City Club Shoes 
hat, together with 
absolutely correct ityling, 
gives you confidence and 
assurance. They're right 
all the way through even to price.CHyOub
PuslP sy , thPehr'ehsr ysf lr
True  
Esquire  
Argosy e 
American e 
Legion 
Sport e
Annual Contest 
For Orators
Finals Begin April 8; 
Award U.S. Bonds
Carnegie Tech* has been invited 
to participate in the Pittsburgh 
Sun-Telegraphs Eleventh Annual 
Tournament of Orators, part of a 
nation-wide event under auspices 
of the Hearst newspapers. The 
subject of this years competition 
is John Marshall.
The finals at Carnegie will be 
held sometime between April 8 
and April 11. Students interested 
should contact Mrs. Edith W. Skin
ner, FA 102.
Joint High School and College 
finals will be held at 8:15 p.m. 
April 15, Wednesday, in the 
Stephen C. Foster Memorial. Top 
winners locally (one each in the 
high school and college divisions) 
will take part in the Mid-West 
zone finals May 15 in Chicago. 
Winners of the three zone events 
will compete at the grand na
tional finals May 19, in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin.
The Sun-Telegraph will award 
five U.S. Savings Bonds as fol
lows: first prize, $250; second, 
$100; third, $75; fourth, $60; fifth, 
$25. In addition the local champion 
of each division receives a $50 
bond for representing this district 
in the Mid-West zone finals.
Last year, John Ragin of Tech 
won the Mid-West zone finals and 
placed second in the grand na
tional finals in Detroit.
All applications for this years 
contest must be in the hands of 
the Sun-Telegraph by April 1.
Exhibition At Institute 
Features Steel City
burghs rapid development over a 
span of two centuries or to meet 
Dippy. So, cherubs, if an idle hour 
is weighing heavy, trillie across 
the "Schenley bridge and visit the 
museum. The walk isnt long and 
the displays are a worthy sight 
after a brisk stroll in the spring 
sunlight.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
by Molly Rudy
Just beyond the Schenley bridge stands Carnegie Institute, in 
transition with new paint and lighting effects (some undreamed ot 
in a museum) highlighting the change in atmosphere. Residents of 
the Gateway to the West, including student population, are lately
taking notice of these alterations*--------:---------------------------------------------
and fascinating showings.
The Pittsburgh redevelopment 
exhibit, which will be on display 
until April, unfolds the lifetime 
of our smoky city from 1760 un
til 1952. Three revolving lifesize 
paintings depict the whisky insur
rection, the-violence which result
ed from steel strikes, and the 
threat of invasion during the Civil 
War. Photographic ' murals and 
scenes range from the muddy 
roads to super highways in show
ing Pittsburghs outstanding ad
vancement through the years.
Fossils Everywhere 
E>inosaur hall, not to be out
done by the exhibition rooms, has 
been dressed up with Dippy, the 
diplodocus, as its number one at
traction. The old fossil looks every 
bit of his 13 feet high and 78 feet 
long.
Also in the Dinosaur Hall is an
other fossil which, instead of being 
merely identified by a name has 
its ancestry detailed on a revolv
ing scroll in front of the exhibit 
something new in titles for millions-of-year-olds. \
Live Exhibit 
Turning from the fossils of 150,- 
000,000 years ago, the casual vis
itor can see the first of a series of 
living exhibits, a red and blue 
Macaw. Now a regular museum 
feature, it is popular with guards 
and viewers as it performs on its 
perch swinging hither and yon.
It doesnt take much time to 
become acquainted with PittsA BIBLE
For The Family That
Already Has A Bible!!

The new authorized version . . . 
more accurate . .  
easier to read ...
*5-40
$9.00
-BUCKRAM BINDING 
-LEATHER BINDING
The Perfect Easter Gift!!
CIT Bookstore
YOU WONT NEED A RABBITS FOOT
to be sure of getting home 
as planned . . . and getting 
back promptly after vaca
tion... in a comfortable, de
pendable train. And you can be 
equally sure of vacation fun... 
traveling with your friends... 
enjoying swell dining-car meals 
... with lots of room to roam 
around and visit.
GIVE EAR TO THESE SAVINGS I
You and two or more of 
your friends can each 
save 25% of regular 
round-trip coach fares 
by making the trip home and 
back together on Group Plan 
tickets. These tickets are good 
generally between points more 
than 100 miles apart.
Or, gather 25 or more head
ing home at the same time in 
the same direction. You each 
save up to 28%, even if you re
turn separately.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL RAILROAD TICKET 
AGENT WELL IN ADVANCE OF DEPARTURE 
DATE FOR DETAILED INFORMATION ^
lPelfrfhVfstP

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 17, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPaffe 3
Alchemists Financial 
Difficulties Thicken
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
As I stated two weeks ago, insuperable financial problems have 
plagued my weary soul since the management of Mr. Mellons money 
lending establishment instituted its get-tough policy on my checking account. +---------------:,_______  __________
With the exception of a few 
meals that I have borrowed from 
friendly fellow students, and those 
I have sponged at the spacious, 
well kept, friendly, sophisticated 
Beta mega fraternity house (paid 
advertisement), I have been rath
er hungry of late.
Sliderule Engraving 
I have had to stop buying pen
cils and other such nick-nacks in 
the Bookstore, and was even una
ble to have my mother of pearl 
slide rule with the iridium trim
ming and the tooled moleskin case 
tatooed by the jolly old elf that 
set up business in Skibo last week.
Considering the apparent age 
of the aforementioned troll, I 
should like to point out that this is 
perhaps an opening for a bright 
young college graduate in the slide 
rule and pen engraving business. 
Here is a chance for some ambiti
ous mechanical engineer.
I use engraved pencils myself, 
and have considered changing my 
name to Dixon Ticonderoga so that 
they will seem more personalized 
than they do at present.
Getting Hungry 
But this has little to do with fi
nances.
As of last Friday it was two 
weeks since I had sent my plea to 
Father for additional funds to con
tinue my education. For the past 
three days my meals had consist
ed solely of the broth from boiled 
shoe leather and used sweat socks, 
stewed on a clandestine hotplate in 
McBoss Hall, and served with a 
garnish of ivy leaves procured 
from without *ny cubicle window.
So I longed for a change in fare, 
thought wistfully of skibo, and 
waited for the mail to bring the 
desired missive.
A Letter 
Saturday I staggered to the post 
office, opened my box, sorted out 
the mail going to my 17 boxmates, 
and finally held in my quivering 
hand a letter postmarked in dear 
old Bilgewater, my boyhood home. 
My heart leaped for joy, and I 
dashed toward Skibo to consume a 
cup of coffee bought with my new 
found wealth. The sun was shin
ing brightly, and the vibrant air 
wafted a faint breath of spring to 
my starved nostrils. (I wish my 
English instructor to take note of 
the sheer descriptive beauty in the 
above sentence.)
I slit open the letter with my 
right thumbnail, removed the con
tents, and looked for the check. 
No check. No money order. No 
money. Not even postage stamps 
for an answer.
My spirits drooped, but I unfold
ed the letter and read it. Father 
had written on the official station
ery of the John John Supply com
pany, makers of sanitary equip
ment for all occasions. The en
graved letterhead sparkled in the 
morning sun, displaying radiajntly
flre  eiol,fhelf
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
eiol,fhelfP
All Utli V Low M*29.50
American Typewriter (0. 
hh ,mmc PIa (0. 1-1019
Convenient Prkint%WI *
COUNSELORS
Men and Women, over 19. for
positions in fine co-educational 
camp, Ridgefield, Conn, 65 miles 
from New York City, Athletics, 
General, Waterfront, Archery, 
Riflery, Fencing, Group Heads, 
Working Couples. Write for Ap
plication, Camp Adventure, 245 
McKinley Ave., New Haven, Conn., 
OR call Wm. V. Dworski for in
terview in New York City, April 
1st thra 4th, J to 5 p.m. dally, 
Hotel Roger Smith, Lexington 
Ave. at E. 47th Street.
the drawing of the product pic
tured thereon.
Dear Son, it said, I was 
interested and not displeased 
to learn that you are still alive. 
And having a few moments to 
spare, this morning, I will 
write you a return note.
The family seems to be fine. 
Your brothers and sisters who 
are still at home are well, and 
I assume from your letter that 
little Guglielmo is still surviv
ing at Carnegie Tech, home of 
the world famous Kiltie Band.
Unfortunately business has 
been rather poor of late. Our 
products, Johns Johns, are 
selling at a most discouraging 
rate. The American public's 
propensity to consume (to 
misuse an economists term) 
seems to have dropped consid
erably.
Then of course there are 
the veterinarians bills for our 
dear pet aardvark, Hyacinth, 
who has been quite ill with 
the quinsy since January.
All of this makes it rather 
awkward to send you funds at 
the present time. I had meant 
to enclose a small sum, but I 
forgot all about it until the 
envelope was sealed, so that 
will have to wait.
Write again when you get 
time.
Your loving father, 
Father
I felt unhappy. The world was 
grim again after a brief spell of 
hope. I would have to get a job, 
I thought, something to tide me 
over until another source of cash 
came along.
So I stripped a piece of sweet,
Elections
Class and Student Council 
elections will be held on Wed
nesday, April 22. Petitions are 
available in the office of the 
Dean of Men and are due on 
Friday, April 10.
1. Student Council require
ments: Petition complete with 
signatures of 40 full-time un
dergraduate day students 
from the college of the candi
date.
2. Class Officer require
ments: Petition complete with 
the number of signatures as 
^follows:
a. for President10 sig
natures from each college 
(Fine Arts, MMCC, E & S, 
H & SS).
b. for Vicepresident 
(one from each college) 15 
signatures from his college.
c. for Secretary10 sig
natures from each college.
d. for Treasurer10 sig
natures from each college.
[Continued from page 2] 
of the band stand.
Three Judges
Judges for the Sing competition 
were Mrs. Charles McDade, choral 
director of the Edgewood Metho
dist church, Herbert Ostrander, 
choral director of Bellevue high 
school, and Mrs. Edward Gallup, 
President of the Tuesday music 
club.
Co-chairmen for Sing and 
Swing were Mary Jane Troop, 
representing Panhel and Tom 
Nathan for CFP. Nancy Callaway 
was chairman of decorations.
tender bark from a campus syca
more tree, 'chewed upon it for my 
noon meal, and headed toward 
town to pick up a few odd pennies 
vending Saint Patricks day lapel 
decorations on the corner of Wood 
and Diamond.
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-yeor Course 
loads lo 
Matter's 
Oogr*
Specialized training speeds eollege grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Pmbc CM gwnnmIvb '
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, P.
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, 
and a high starting salary await you at OL.46.No1 if you are 
one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right 
now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in 
oor long-range military program: turning out the famous 
C-119 for the U.S. Air Forces.
Fairchild provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-honr week.
If you feel you are one of the men we are looking for, 
write me. Your inquiry will be held in strictest confidence, 
of course.**
d W alter Tydon, widely known aviation engineer and aircraft designer 
and veteran of tS yeart in aviation, is Chief Engineer of Fairchild's Aircraft Division.
[NCIN! AND mm CORPORATION
/fima/t Dimim
u.lfPes,r fiVrt
Construction Near Completion 
On New Centrally Located Shop
Techs operations department, the small but important organiza
tion that is responsible for maintaining and operating the school 
buildings, is at last realizing a lifetime desireto have all its shops 
located in one spot. ? 
Until now they have been scat
tered all over the campus. For ex
ample, the electrical shop was 
cramped in the basement of Por
ter Hall, the carpenter shop in the 
sub-basement, and the plumbing 
shop in the basement of MMCC
different levels because of the way 
the footings of the building are 
laid out.
Some of the spaces that will be 
left vacant when the shops move 
will be taken over by the educa
tion department. For example, the 
, civil engineers will occupy the old Storerooms were everywhere. Lyrical shop. other spaces, like Soon however nearly everything Qne where the plumbing shop 
will be located in the space bej win not be used for any_
tween the civil engineering labs because they are not felt toand the math department.
In Porter Hall
This space was selected because 
it was too dark to grow anything in 
and too hard to get to put? anything 
else in, being two flights down a 
narrow staircase from the main 
floor of Porter hall.
The project, now in the final 
stages of completion, will provide 
new locations for all shops but the 
furniture shop, which will remain 
in its present location in the valley 
between Machinery hall and the 
Bureau of Mines. It includes an 
attractive lunchroom, and a lava
tory complete with showers and a
be of much value.
Mrs. L. H. Miller, operations de
partment head, indicated that the 
project will be completed in about 
a month. It has taken a long time 
because the men in the .department 
have only worked on it off and on 
when their other work was slack.
Orchestra[Continued from page I]
Part II of the program will in
clude Cello Concerto by Boc
cherini featuring Martha Noyes 
as soloist, with Jack Brourman, as modern, pedal-operated wash basstudent conductor, 
in setup. Centralized store roms, j This wjn be followed by Symwhere all supplies are kept in orphonie Espagnole, Op. 21 by Lalo 
der and under perpetual invenwith Richard Gerraro as violin sotory, are now in operation as part i0ist. The program will be conof the project. | eluded with Capriccio Italien. Op.
All Space Used ! 45 by Tchaikovsky.
Every square inch of available j Tickets for the performance, 
space has been utilized. Some of j which is free and open to all, can 
the shops are connected by narrw j be obtained in the music office, 
passageways and are located on Fine Arts building.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
Arrow Gordon Dover Seen -4s 
Campus Favorite For 53
Button-Down Oxford Classic 
Overwhelming Favorite 
Of College Crowd
All signs point to a big year on campus for Arrow Gordon 
Dover-*-the neat, button-down Oxford so many young 
men prefer. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW SHIRTS
T PuhfeP d ehlP p Frtlf,lf d urtAlf'uhlyP a PosfeP PuhfeP BB
ROY VERNER BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 17, 195S
LettersT
More Opposition
Editor, the Tartan:
Whats wrong with the Carnegie Tech adminis
tration that they will not permit the increased 
publicity which would be accorded the school by 
the telecast of this years Scotch n Soda? What 
do they mean by unfavorable publicity?
Tech now has a reputation for being a purely 
technical school with much emphasis on academic 
development. That reputation is firmly established. 
De-emphasis of sports helped that. If we cut out 
all extra-curricular activities, (Scotch n Soda par
ticularly) that reputation would be all the more 
strengthened.
It seems reasonable to assume that the WardVillani Productions, incorporated, recognizes the 
good merits of Scotch n Soda, as shown by its wilj 
lingness to invest $18,000 in its production, while 
Carnegie Tech is reluctant to lend it any support.
It states in the article that putting on such a 
production would be contrary to the Carnegie Plan. 
What could be a better example of the Carnegie 
Plan than a show written, staged, and produced 
entirely by the students themselves? Is this not 
the application of leadership and creative initia
tive?
It would be very simple to state that this show 
is put on with the exclusion of the dramats. This 
would surely save their  fictitious pride. We are 
not attempting to stage a production comparable 
to Henry the IV, but merely to give people outside 
the drama department an opportunity to partici
pate in a musical.
A musical, such as Scotch 'n Soda could never 
binder the reputation of Carnegie Tech; it could 
only, help it.
Signed,
29 Irate Students.
EditorialIdiots At Work
Poor Obituary
About one semesters time has elapsed since the Tartan 
caused the big campus squabble concerning the dilapidated 
barracks, and it seems as though we are again seeing a duel 
between two dormitory factions. The first duel was fairly 
clear cut and defined; one group liked the barracks and the 
other didnt. But the one that appears to be going on at 
present is a hard one to interpret. On one side of the fence 
we see the representatives of Dorm Council negotiating with 
the school for various additional ^creational facilities (and
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to comment on the obitsuary that 
recently appeared in your paper in regards to the 
death of A1 Cerrito of Carnegie Tech. I see your 
purpose in publishing the gory details to combat some that are a bit more necessary than recreational); but,
rumors, but I do not think the article truly exon the other side of the fence behind Dorm Councils back,
pressed the feeling of every student whether they i , . , . . . >
knew A1 or not. I do not know him but when I  are a few dorm residents who are ruining everyone s chances
read of his death I couldnt help feeling sorry for to have a better place to live, 
his family, his friends, and all those that, did know 
him. I think the least the Tartan could have done 
was to express the schools sympathy to his family;
You probably meant well but the article gave 
the impresin that the rareness of the disease was 
of more importance than the death of a fellow 
Student, Death is not meant to be a tabloid spread So, they started stuffing the telephones with slugs and even
and I think his family would much prefer to know  went to the extent of knocking holes in the cornboard walls 
that their son will be missed by us here at Tech, I . , .
not as a celebrity because he died of a rare disease, j ground the talk boxes (it may not be legal to discuss t is
Sincerely, I operation here, but grounding gives the same effect as putUnsigned. j ting a dime in the slot). Now the phones have been torn
out and the fellows in the barracks have no direct communi
cation with the outside world. Obviously all the residents 
are ot happy, and maybe the few responsible now regret 
itbut the damage is done.
Examples seem a bit numerous to quote here, but a f^w 
are outstanding for various reasons. The prime felony oc
curred in the barracks, where a few residents didnt see eye 
to eye with the phone company on the recent rate increase.
CCUlrtl&&2/
OFFICES. Carregie Union 5075 Forbe* Street, Pittsburgh is 
Pa TELEPHONESChenJey 1-4557 after hour* MUseum 
1-5380 for advertising and wbscriptions: MUseum 2-3990
Published weekly during the school year except nolidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa
The Bell Telephone Co. has been fairly reasonable in alloting its scarce supply of telephones to studentsthe few 
dorm residents who enjoy a phone in their own room, and also 
in the fraternity houses. We may soon notice a change in this 
policy when present and future students try to get private phones 
its going to be a lot harder to prove that a telephone is neces
sary to our business.
A short jaunt across Margaret Morrison points out anEditor-in-chiet ................................ Fred sonnenberg other little misdemeanor in Welch hall. Seems that somene (probably Piurai) packed the Pooi table into the basesport* Editor ......................................... Frank Fe*tey ment john in an upright position. The schools team of
Esteiie Herin* majntenance engineersthat crew of four who can usually 
I be found standing over open holes on campus-had a hard 
time figuring out how it got in there in one piece^rumor 
said they had to dismantle it to get it out. This isnt quite 
that funny though, because within the short span of a semes
ter, someone from Welch hall will be crying to the Dean 
that the table needs a new cover. Here again its pretty hard 
to impress someone how essential such an item is after such 
horseplay.
Once more we are engaged in something to which we 
know no obvious solution. No one will clamp down on the 
boys and close their little pool halls, but if they keep on 
going along this way, theyll soon run out of equipment. 
This seems to be an ideal field in which to apply the Carnegie 
Plan mixed with a lot of common sense, because remember, 
we arent the last students wholl be going through Tech.
Kewi Editor
Personnel
Smith Ad
Business ManagerJerry Seinei Cirruiation ManagerJoe 
LeMarca Photography EditorMartin Snyderman Reporters 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armoui Joan Cummerton. Jane 
Sunder. Da'-e Hubbard. Jackie Connolly. Marilyn Seiner. 
Ken WinFton, Bill Minkler, June SochatofT, Jo Forsythe. Cab 
ReportersBarbara Leonard Pat Maue, Elaine Manuele, Ann 
Dwindle. Dorothy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robert
son, Mollie Rudy, Delores Prus. Sports ReportersEdward 
Feigenbaum, Robert Steiger, Dick Eppler, James Gore. 
Copy ReaderPaul Carmichael. Art StaffJoan Brech
in. Nelson Kelley. Dick Stahl PhotographersBarbara Toia. 
Don Hand. Myror Lewis. Roger Gregory. Dick Wolfe
t'eatares StaffAndrew Stedry, Lin Smith, Judy Storch. 
TypistElayne Nord. Headline Staff Van Anderson, Pat 
Naugle, Dan Byers Copy RunnerFred Young. Make-Up
StaffEllroy Wildnaber, Don Wildman. Advertising Staff 
Ronald Greenwa d Vic Shiry, Mimi Stern, Joan Newman. 
Circulation StaffRalph Antonito.
Repieented for national advertising oy NATIONAL AD
VERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420
Madison Ave New York City Subscription SI.10 per rear 
Entered as econo class matter on October 4, 1907, at
the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., undei the Act of March 3. 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of povtag pro
vided for in the Act of February 28 1925
Member * u> Associated College Preoa
INQUIRING REPORTER.
Opposition Strong 
Against TV Ban
by Dick Wolfe
The question asked this week by the inquiring 
reporter was What is your opinion of the ad
ministration banning the televising of Scotch n 
Soda?
James Kalett, junior, dramatIn my opinion,
Techs Scotch n Soda club is 
one of our most valuable extra
curricular activities in" that it 
offers an opportunity for both 
the dramats and students of oth
er departments to combine their 
efforts in a style of theater rare
ly seen outside of the drama de
partment. The drama depart
ment has always had a fair 
amount of publicity for their 
creative efforts and there is no 
reason why Scotch n Soda should not have the 
same.> #I say this because the work of this organiza
tion is, in certain ways, more exacting than the 
drama productions. Not only are the members of 
this club creating in terms of acting, directing, 
and design, but they are also working with an 
original script and score as well. Also many peo
ple in the club lack the training a dramat has, but 
their work is quite good.
It is unfair for CIT to submerge or to squelch 
their efforts. Their purpose is far less academic
than that of the dramats,- but their goal is the
same. They are striving to produce a show in 
order to entertain their audience. If CIT continues 
to neglect this club, I think it is showing an un
fair and selfish attitude toward the student body 
and perhaps placing too much glory on the drama 
department.
Jay Doyle, sophomore, dramatAs was men
tioned in the last issue of the 
Tartan, this was Scotch n Sodas 
last chance to regain the nation
wide prestige which it had ac
quired about ten years ago. This 
decision not only put the damper 
on regaining fame for Scotch 'n 
Soda, but also I feel that it re
flects a negative attitjade on the
part of those who made it.
It reflects lack of confidence 
in what will probably be a very 
successful production. What with the emphasis 
that has been put the lack of school spirit lately, 
I definitely feel that this decision has been a back
ward, discouraging, and selfish step by a chosen 
few who both defeats the aim, and displays a
flagrant lack of confidence on the part of the adimnistration, to the student body.
Norman Berkow, junior, printerThe admin
istration has given a few very 
poor excuses for not permitting 
the televising of this years 
Scotch n Soda musical produc
tion. In past years, and in all 
probability this year also or the 
show would not have been se
lected for television, the club will 
do a grand job of bringing en
tertainment to its audience. In 
fact, with a television broadcast 
in mind, and with some techni
cal aid, the show will be very good, and will not 
bring a poor reputation to the schools fine drama 
department.
Therefore, in view of the proceeding thoughts, 
the excellent experience to the shows personnel, 
and what I contend to be terrific publicity, I de
sire that the administration review the facts and 
reverse their decision pertaining to the televising 
of this years Scotch n Soda club production.
Donald Gross, freshman, aeronautical engineer
In my opinion, the banning ot 
Scotch n Soda from TV was not 
only a severe blow to the imme
diate cast, but to the whole stu
dent body as well. This action 
has deprived Carnegie Tech of 
an excellent chance for nation
wide publicity. I'm sure that 
every Tech student would enjoy 
[C feeling of great pride in see
ing the names of Scotch n Soda 
and Carnegie Tech flashed across 
the screen.
As far as the problem of misconstruing Scotch 
n Soda as a dramatic department activity is con
cerned, I believe a simple solution could be ob
tained by making a short reference, over the air, 
to the effect that this production is in no way 
affiliated with the Dramatic Department. This I 
believe would not be responsible for the produc
tion of Scotch n Soda, and the members of the 
cast would not be classed as dramats.

---------------------------------------------------

GRADUATING ENGINEERS
JET AVIATION
; WITHREPUBLIC
ANSWERS YOUR SEARCH 
FOR THE FIRD WITH THE BIG FUTURE
 uh.u!oihr. *sg 
gl.hrP isFf 'fllf 
,heu eul 'flesfP sy 
eul h.uei euFrtlfPeflA
Americas largest producer of fighter places offers you career oppor
tunities in todays fastest-growing field ... jet aviation! Republic now 
seeks Engineers in the following fields: aeronautical, mechanical, dhril 
and electrical.
Be part of the team thats setting the pace in jet aviation! At Republic, 
youll earn top salaries from the start and move ahead rapidly to take your 
place among the top men in this field with the unlimited future.
floFgVh'5P floflPlreeh-l 
a '40nm$ *a Am4Mb
,hVV hrelf-hl, sr euhP 'oFP 
,ltrlPti f'u 2S
for further Information And An Appoint
ment Sttn Your Plmtomont lurti*.
Track Practice Starts
Halfertys Thinclads To Seek 
3rd Straight Undefeated Season
by Jim Gore
This years track squad, which will be looking for its third 
straight undefeated season, will have a liberal sprinkling of veteran 
cinder men along with some prize freshmen.
The Tartan team has, as usual, some excellent runners but is
somewhat weak as far as numbers^---------------------__________________
go in the field department.
Tuesday, March IT, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Tartan Yolleyballers 
To Eastern Tournament
Carman Is Key Man
Bob Carman, last years athlete 
of the year, will again be the key 
man for Tech in the long distances, 
with Johnny Miller and Rodger 
Coyle being the 880 boys. Vic 
Valias and Dick Englehart, con
sistent winners last season, will 
carry the Plaid in the 440, while 
Chuck Bell will be top dasher in 
the shorter distances o 100 and 
220 yards. Lewis Wetzel and Don 
Wood return to the hurdles and 
broad jump respectively.
High Jumpers Are Scarce 
In the field events Chuck Taylor 
will be Techs strong man as far 
as the discus and shot go, with 
Chuck Bateman and Gerry Blum 
feldt handling the pole-vaulting 
job. The high jump men are 
scarce again but Coach Halferty 
should come up with contenders to 
fill vacant positions.
Tarquan. Show 
Will App ear 
This Weekend*
Not to be overshadowed by the 
victorious Tech mermen, campus 
mermaids will splash into the 
limelight next Friday and Satur
day evenings, March 20 and 21. 
The Tarquans will present their 
annual watercade in the gym
nasium swimming pool at 8:00 p.m.
This year the theme of the show 
will be an original and very mod
ern fairy tale which takes place in 
Atlantis, far under the sea. The 
story wr.s written by Lynne Miller 
and Miss Fiske, gym instructor.
Elva Lee Moore as the Princess 
is the star mermaid. Shanan 
Lease and Marilyn Freed are 
aquatic soloists, accompanied by 
a chorus of about 25 girls. Sally 
Lowenthal, freshman dramatics, 
will narrate. .
The water production will be 
performed in rhythm to such hits 
as Johnstown Rag, Blue Vio
lins, American In Paris, and 
Spellbound. Each ensemble will 
provide their own costumes, and 
all numbers will be performed un
der special lighting.
Tickets, 50 cents, will be on sale 
in Skibo all this week. Tarquans 
wishes to remind the students of 
the limited seating in the pool 
room. For this reason, two shows 
will be given.
The scenery for Coronation
For the BEST
Photographic 
Bqu'oment and Supplies
LibertyPhoto
Supply
436 ,MMc PIa
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL or BOWLING SHOES
9(1!(H 'fh. Peflle 
P'4mbnmL 2!HN(1
Coach Baker 
Plans 25 Day 
Spring Practice
With the close of basketball sea
son and the coming of milder 
weather, comes the annual spring 
practice session for the Tartan pig
skin squad.
Although the season and the 
time of year suggests any sport 
but football, still the March-April 
tryouts and practice sessions mean 
an awful lot towards a well-functining team when October and No
vember roll around.
The returning members of last 
falls squad will pick up their 
equipment on Thursday while the 
newcomers will do the same the 
following day. The session will last 
a total of 20 days with time off on 
weekends and for the Easter vaca
tion.
Anyone who has an opportunity 
of observing the workouts will un
doubtedly find quite a few of last 
years standouts missing. Such 
names as Craig, Schecter, Fuelgraf, 
Vodnichar, and Stahle will not be 
found on the lineups this year; 
however head Coach Baker will 
undoubtedly come up with eager 
hard working replacements who 
may emerge as the pigskin stais 
in 53.
Ball is under the direction of 
Dottie Gerlach; business, Jean 
Ward; costumes, Linda Cooper. 
Miss Fisk is Tarquans faculty ad
visor and Lynne Miller and Nancy 
Sklar, co-chairman of the group.
I oumey oouna
Volleyball players under the tutelage of Coach Earl Birdy 
tice for the coming Eastern Collegiate Volleyball tourney.
praeCarnegie Tech has received and 
accepted an invitation to partici
pate in the 1953 Eastern Collegiate 
Volleyball tournament to be held 
at Binghamton, N.Y., March 20 
and 21.
Representing the Plaid will be 
Ed Puchy, Ed Possessky, Frank 
Fegley, Jack Hoover, Bill Boney, 
George Thomas, George Berringer, 
and Jack Alexander along with 
Coach Earl Birdy.
Possessky was elected captain of 
the team at a recent practice ses
sion.
Thus far this season the Tartan 
netmen have had two warm up 
contests against Peabody high 
school, perenial state champs, and 
the downtown YMCA, erstwhile 
city champs.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Comic Basketball Game 
To Feature On IM Nite
Variety was evidently the aim 
of the program committee for this 
years intramural night. No long
er can intramural night be con
sidered merely the night of the 
school championship basketball 
game.
The tentative program features 
a comic basketball game prior to 
the championship game. A three 
ring circus of wrestling, badmin
ton, and ping-pong exhibitions will 
be played simultaneously at halftime.
The comic basketball game will 
feature a girls all-star team from 
the WAA versus the Intramural 
Board. The game will be played 
under special rules requiring that 
the Intramural Board wear boxing 
gloves. Whether this rule was de
signed to be a handicap or a means 
of protection has not yet been 
decided.
To terminate the affair there 
will be a square dance in Thistle 
hall.
ENGINEERING 
SENIORS...
North American 
Aviation 
Los Angeles
will interview here
f'u R9

---------------------------------------------------

Page CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 17, 1953
iit: Accuracy
Submin ja tu riza tio n
Rockets, ATO Loom 
As Hoopsters To Beat
National League Leaders Finish
Strong In Stretch Drive For Cup
by Jim Shenker
With only one week left in the intramural basketball season, a 
prospective champion is still far from-, sight. Every team is fighting 
hard right down to the wire and as a result, 11 teams are within 
easy reach of the coveted trophy which will label them as campus 
champs. - r
American League 
the present time,At the present time, in the 
American league, the Beta Theta 
Pi A team is setting the pace 
with a clean record of 8-0. Follow
ing close behind are Bagdad AC 
with 7-1, and PiKA with 7-2. The 
Betas past their closest rival in the 
league, PiKA, early in the week, 
and later, led by Fegley, and fine 
defensive play by Kane, dumped 
the Delts by a score of 53-42. Bag
dad AC kept themselves in the 
thick of the fight by winning over 
ASCE. With the help of 12 points 
by Thomas, the Phi Kappa B 
team upset the Beta Sig A team.
National League
In the highly rated National 
league, the two strong league lead
ers continued along their winning 
ways. These teams, the Rockets 
with a record of 7-0 and ATO A, 
5-0, both posted two victories 
apiece this week. ATO A led by 
Miller with 19 points, trounced the 
Sekuds 86-29. They also had an 
easy time with the DU B team, 
beating them 70-13. The Rockets 
had no trouble with either the 
Hillbillies or Sigma Nu B, beat
ing them 40-22 and winning by 
forfeit over the Sigma Nus. With 
every team in the National league 
Striving to knock-off these two 
leaders, some interesting games 
should result in this final week of 1 
play.
Federal League
A three-way tie is possible to 
result in the Federal league as the 
three top teams have very close 
won-loss records and with each 
team having the same number of 
games to play. They are Sigma Nu 
"A, 4-1, Obelisks, 4-1, and DU
A, 5-0. All three teams, fighting 
to gain the lead, won their respec
tive games this week. Sigma Nu 
A over Hightowers 40-33, DU 
A over Arkens 51-29, and the 
Obelisks beat ATO B 60-37.
Republican League
Interesting things happened in 
the Republican league this past 
week. In the longest game of the 
week (two overtimes) the Kappa 
Sigs finally downed the Newman 
club A 62-57. Schcter was high 
for the winners with 19, while 
Blank had 18 for the losers.
The Republican league is anoth
er which may very possible end 
in a three-way tie. The Kappa 
Sigs currently lead the league 
with a 5-0 record followed close
ly by the Graduates 6-1 and Phi 
Kappa A 4-1. Both the Kappa 
Sigs and the Graduates beat the 
Demons this week.
Kappa Sig, led by Luchock with
Standings 
American League Team Won Lost
Beta Theta Pi A................... 8 0
Bagdad AC .................................... 7 1
Pi Kappa Alpha .......................... 7 2
Beta Sigma Rho ..;................... 4 3
Citcom ............................................. 4 3
Phi Kappa B ......................... 4 5
Slugs ................................................. 4 5
Delta Tau Delta ............... 3 6
Newman Club B ................... 1 7
ASCE ............................................... 0 8
National League
Rockets ............................................ 6 0
Alpha Tau Omega A......... 9 0
Rinky Dinks...........>....................... 5 2
Sekuds ............................................. 4 2
Delta Upsilon B .....................3 3
Freshman Flashes .......................3 3
Hillbillies ...................................... 2 5
Sigma Nu B ............................ 1 6
Theta Xi A .............................. 0 7
Federal League ^
Delta Upsilon A ................... 6 0
Sigma Nu A ............................ 4 1
Obelisks ....................................... 4 1
Arkens ............................................. 4 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................4 4
Alpha Tau Omega B............. 2 5
Theta Xi B ............................ 1 3
Sprockets ....................................... 0 7Republican League
Kappa Sigma A ..................... 5 0
Graduates......................................... 6 1
Phi Kappa A .......................... 4
Newman Club A...................... 4 2
Dembns ........................................... 3 5
Sophomore Pigskins ...................2 5
Tau Delta Phi .............................. 1 5
Beta Theta Pi *B .................... 0 8
26 points, won by a score of 55-40, 
while the Grads, led by Smith 
with 14, won 37-31. The other top 
team, Phi Kappa A, easily romp
ed over the Roopsips 73-32 with 
the help of Jim Shriver who bag
ged 21 points for the winners.
Other Scores
Phi Kappa *B. .39Rinky Dinks .. . .40Sigma Nu B...12
Freshman Flashes 73Theta Xi ..
Sigma Nu A.. .44SAE ..........
Arkens ............. . .63
Soph Pigskins.. . .61TDP ......................38.Nwmn club AoverBTP B byforfeit
TDP ........................441 Beta Theta Pi B 41
Intramural Roundup 
Bowling
In the semi-finals for the bowl
ing tiile, Tau Delta Phi was pit
ted against Delta Upsilon, and the 
Beavers against Theta Xi. Delta 
Upsilon and the Beavers won and 
will play this weekend for the 
title.
> Table Tennis
The Obelisks and Alpha Tau 
Omega met in the finals and the 
Obelisks went away with the tro
phy by posting a three to two vic
tory.
Water Polo
In the water polo semi-finals, 
Alpha Tau Omega defeated Sigma 
Nu A, 10-4, and Beta Sigma Rho 
topped Pi Kappa Alpha 8-7 in 
overtime. In the final Alpha Tau 
Omega won by a score of six to 
one to win the campus champion
ship.
Handball
The second week of the season 
has the Faculty leading the Kil
tie league with a 2-0 record, fol
lowed by Sigma Nu and the Four 
Aces, each having one victory and 
one setback. Beta Sigma Rho 
leads the Piper league with a 1-0 
record.
V
Hadj is Leads 
WAA In 23-19 
Win Over PCW
A determined WAA intercolle
giate basketball team rallied late 
in the third quarter to down an 
equally hard-fighting PCW team 
23-19.
PCW surged to a 10-5 lead at 
the end of the first quarter and it 
looked like they were on their 
way to another victory. However, 
the Tech lassies strengthened their 
defense in the second quarter 
holding the visitors to a single 
field-goal. In the third quarter 
Tech surged ahead with Scotty 
Hadjis and Diane Farrington com
bining for seven points. PCW nar
rowed the gap to two points with 
three minutes remaining. The ball 
changed hands several times in 
the next two minutes until Far
rington iced the game by sink
ing a foul shot with 40 seconds left 
to play. Hadjis made an easy lay
up for insurance and Tech walked 
away with a victory, their first 
over the PCW lassies in the past 
four years of play.
Hadjis was high for Tech with 
14 points, while Burlap and Miles 
each scored six points for the vis
itors.
Spring Practice
Spring practice for varsity 
football candidates will be 
held beginning March 23 and 
lasting for 20 practice days. 
Anyone interested in becom
ing a candidate should see Mr. 
Cratsley, room 102, Gymna
sium building.
Mr. Cratsley would also be 
interested in any candidates 
for football manager or as
sistant.
The easiest-writing 
portable ever built/
npLDn oMIM YF 4mncp p ,M5p
oDpUYF PWUGc '4M8W<MpDW m vkUv 
hk upp IvU ,Mnc5p Uhwwwa
Sem ft um#aaa 
Terwi as tew as S^j .25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320
 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS - RENTAIA
Sylvania-Engineered, Capsule-Sized 
Radio Tubes Add Deadly Electronic 
Accuracy to Gun Fire
Needed: a high-performance radio tuberugged 
enough to meet battle conditions  small enough 
for compact military equipment.
A tough job?  YES. But typical of Sylvanias 
advanced, vital engineering assignments whose solu
tions unlock doors to the future.
Finding answers to such problems is the basis of 
Sylvania continuing growth and leadership. If 
that's the kind of engineering youre looking for 
were looking for you!
For information on Sylvania* program for graduat
ing engineerssee your Placement Office todayor 
write Supervisor of Technical Employment...............
Typical Sylvania ubmi mature tube Ion*, 
pencil thinheart of vital electronic equipment.SYLVANIA
,-^'u
3ytvmm ia Ei* ci rie Product. Im*.,
LIGHTINGRADIOELECTRONICS
1740 Broadway, Nm York 9, N. f.
TELEVISION

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, Marek 17, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
./I
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ........................................................................................ Victor Sabol
Reporters..........Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
Evening Newmans 
History, Principles
The Evening School Newman club, which was organized last 
March, has now come into its own with its membership probably 
equalling that of other campus organizations, if not surpassing them.
What Is It?
The Newman Club is a national federation of Catholic students 
attending secular colleges and uni-* 
versities.
Over 500 chapters have been es
tablished in the United States and 
Canada. Each chapter is placed 
under the guidance of a competent 
chaplain by the Bishop of the Dio
cese.
The first Newman Club was 
formed by five students of the 
University of Pennsylvania in 
1893. Because Catholic culture was 
the keynote of their program, they 
adopted Cardinal Newman as pa
tron of their club. They recognized 
Cardinal Newmans life as a Cath
olic ideal of scholarship and his 
writings as grt granaries of 
knowledge for the receptive minds 
and hearts of students.
In Pittsburgh the Newman club 
is active in chapters on the cam
puses of Carnegie Tech and the
Fraternities and Sororities
Open b ccMwbI and Get 
rOVR FULL DISCOUN1
OAKLAND HARDWARE
N6(6 ysfglP Pea
DEEP lit W00BE8HIU.8
Spend life's happiest hours where you'll 
find other newly married collegians. 
Hare a secluded cottage all your own 
t a friendly guest house ust for newly
weds. Leisurely life (breakfast until 
11:00), vigorous outdoor fun or com
plete relaxation . . . meals youII re
member always . . . jolly gatherings of 
young people enjoying fife's greatest 
experience. Mention dates and you will 
receive our THREE HONEYMOON 
PLANS and other helpful folders.
The Farm on the Hill
Swiftwater 97, Pa.
For Better 
Dry Cleaning..
l-HOUR
SERVICE
?CampusCleaners
4609 Forbes St.
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY
12 Inch
METAL RULERS 
FREE to All 
C.I.T. Students
University of Pittsburgh.
Why Is It?
The ambition of the Newman 
Club is to deepen the spiritual 
and enrich the temporal lives of 
its members through a balanced 
program of religious, intellectual, 
and social activities.
The Newman Club program as
sists both the school and the stu
dent in that it supplies the Cath
olic philosophy, culture and fel
lowship lacking in the secular ed
ucation.
The Newman Club assists in de
veloping the complete student and 
graduate ... a student trained in 
the spiritual as well as the ma
terial sciences ready to meet all 
the problems of life.
Can It Assist You?
The Newman Club is just what 
every Catholic student has been 
looking for:
. . . lively discussion of matters 
concerning your faith;
. . . Catholic principles applied 
to current events;
. . . opportunities for fellow
ship and social contacts;
. . . personal attention to your 
individual problems;
. . . only the Newman Club is 
equipped to give the services to 
you.
Who Can Join?
You can become a member of 
the Newman Club if you meet the 
following qualifications:
. . . any Catholic student-. . . 
graduate or undergraduate attend
ing Carnegie Tech Evening School 
... no discrimination is ever 
shown as to race, national origin, 
or social background.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Activity Points 
Standing Issued, 
Seven Qualify
The point record which is kept 
by the social chairman, Plaid Ed
itor, and other persons in charge 
of campus affairs has been turned 
over to Council Vice President 
Don Walker. This tabulation as 
listed below, is as of February 28, 
1953, excluding any points earned 
by Council members or officers for 
attendance at Council meetings.
As set forth in the Constitution, 
this report is issued in December, 
March, and June so that all stu
dents may know just where they 
stand with regard to earning an 
insignia award. Twenty points are 
required for the reception of a 
key.
Bill Brobst .......................................................14
Dorothy Burt .................................................. 2
Floyd Byers .................................................14*/2
Bill Bartoli .................................................... 5
Matt Bertovich . ................................... 5 Vi
George Bogovich ...........................................19
Wilma Byers .....................................................4
George Davec ................................................ 9
Robert Ellstrom ...............................................2
Pete Fratangelo ........................................... 2
Kathy Galligan ...........................................23 Vi
Ellen Gonter .................................................... 4
Betty George ............................................... 2
Bill Groll ......................................................15>/2
Rege Halecko ............................................ 6 Vi
Peggy Ann Hughes ...................................... 1
Charles Keller .............................................28 V3
.John Komlenic ...................................................2
Mary Margaret Kelly .................................. 2
Marie Keller .................................................. 8
Anna Mae Legosh ........................................25
Martha Latza ................................................2
Lydia Liston .............................................. 4 Vi
Alton Long ........................................................5
Irma Mascaro .....................................................3
Phi Gamma PVs 
Initiation April 19
Pledges and members of Phi 
Gamma Pi enjoyed a spaghetti 
dinner at Carnegie Union on Sun* 
day evening, March 8. Following 
the dinner, separate meetings were 
held by the pledges and members. 
The pledges discussed plans for 
a tea for their big sisters on March 
29, at Carnegie Union from 1:30 to 
3:30. Meanwhile, the present mem
bers made plans for formal initia
tion of the pledges on April 19.
A nominating committee was se
lected to nominate new officers for 
the 1953-1954 year. The officers 
will be elected at the time of in
itiation of pledges and will be in
stalled at the annual banquet. It 
was decided to move the date of 
the annual banquet forward to 
May 9, which will necessitate can
celling plans for the Classmate 
Carnival party which was sched
uled for May 16.
Mary May ...................................................... 7
Byron May .......................................................10
E. E. McDonald ........................................... 3
Kenneth Pore ...............................................23
Mary Alice Peterson ..................................13
Ginny Ross .................................................27 Vi
Marcella Sessi .................................................12
Vic Sabol ............................................................34
George Schussler ..........................................18
Ray Schwalm ...............................................22 V4
Lenora Stumpf...................................................4
Andy Spisak .................................................. 2Will Schnarrenberger ..................................14
Helene Tousimis .....................................2
Don Walker .................................................... 5
Jean Woods .....................................................13
THE DU PONTDI
.
eul lr.hrllfP oV'l hr
bMI4m W40$m MC tw oMbI WMcwcIvMb 0cIvvvIvm$ 
MCCm$ c40nnmbgvbg wMk CM I4m Imc4bvc0n 80b
ta S. ,0bm B.S. in M.E., Purdue '47, andE. ua emb lLck *a B.S. in Ch.E., Syracuse *43, 
Ph.D. in Ch.E., Brooklyn Polytech 50, and 
W. H. Stevens, Jr., B.S. in Ch.E., Yale 60, 
take recordings on a new nylon unit.
In most Du Pont manufacturing 
plants youll find two groups of engi
neers working side by side to make 
operations more efficientto reduce 
costs and improve quality. The spe
cialized work of one group, the pro
duction supervisors, has been rather 
fully discussed in the Digest.
Equally vital is the work of devel
opment menthe men responsible 
for advising management when op
erational changes should be made for 
economic or technical reasons.
Engineers from several fields of 
training are employed in develop
ment activities at Du Pont. It seems
G. R. Prescott, B.S. in Met. E., Columbia 49, 
discuss improvements for'stainless steel linerd 
in tubes carrying corrosive materials.
to have a special appeal for the man 
who can take on a big problem, ana
lyze its parts, and come up with a 
thoughtful, reasoned solution.
Individual development studies 
may begin in a number of different 
ways. Often they are sparked by the 
imagination of the engineer himself, 
who, of course, must be familiar with 
production costs, activities of com
petition, and recent or impending 
technical improvements.
Studies also may be inspired by 
suggestions of production supervi
sors or sales personnel, obsolescence 
of equipment, advances in competi*M4b owcM8 B.S. in Ch.E., Ohio State 49, 
and Kenneth Kehr, North Carolina State 50, 
discuss diagram of a process for improved re* 
oovery of an intermediate for high polymer,
five products, or the presence of 
unsatisfactory profit margins.
In a single study, the engineer may 
draw data from laboratories, semi
works and plant-scale experiments, 
prepare an estimate of profits and in
vestments and consult with numer
ous specialists on various phases of 
the problem, both within the Com
pany and outside.
Having collected data from these 
many sources and perhaps from an 
, independent study of his own, the 
plant development engineer must 
then assemble and evaluate the ma
terial and prepare a recommenda
tion that is based on sound engineer
ing judgment.
Whether a product or process im
proves from the standpoint of com
petition, profit and efficiency de
pends, in great degree, on the quality 
of its plant development work. The 
development engineers job is a re
sponsible one at Du Pont, and the 
work of a good man is soon noticed.
u-l isF seen "Chemical Engineers 
at Du Pont? New book describes initial 
opportunities in many fields, tells how 
experiences are varied to prepare men 
for administrative and management 
positions. For copy, write 2521 Ne
mours Bldg., Wilmington, Delaware.
gleelf euhr.P ysf gleelf Vh-hr.
. .. THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Vv$Imb IM Cavalcade MC America," Tuesday Nights Mb 
rg'TSee It Every Other Wednesday Mb NBC TV

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 17, 1953
ABILE ne(pBr obaEaIlr
T? ST? 
CHANCE 
VOUGHT
Dallas, Texas
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
Using the basic principles of engineering and science he designs, 
develops and tests jet aircraft ox guided missiles for specific military 
missions. His tools are his college training, the companys 35 years of ^ 
experience in fighter aircraft design, the knowledge available from basic 
and applied research in many fields, the excellent facilities for research 
and testing and the cooperative efforts of his fellow engineers. Under 
youthful leadership he perfects his technical skill and develops his 
ability to direct others in the design and production of jet aircraft and' 
guided missiles.
Engineering the jet aircraft and guided missiles of tomorrow 
requires the application of knowledge from many fields. Technical 
assignments are available in such types of work as the design and analy
sis of specialized electronic components, structural and hydraulic testing,
structural and mechanical design, applied aerodynamics, power plant
/analysis and testing, stress and vibration analysis and flight testing.
If you are receiving a degree in Aeronautical Engineering, Mechan
ical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mathe
matics or Physics, we invite you to discuss your future in the aviation 
industry with us. Contact your Placement Director for an appointment 
for your interview with the Chance Vought Aircraft representative.
What
does a
C VA.
Engineer...
J. R. CLARK, A. E., Massachusetts In
stitute of Technology, Assistant Chief 
Engineer, Chance Vought Aircraft, will 
interview graduates of the class of 53 in 
the Placement Office, MAR. 23 and 24. 
Mr. Clark is looking forward to the op
portunity of discussing with you your 
future as a Chance Vought Engineer.
