Volume 98, Issue 9www.thetartan.orgNovember 2003
CMUs history of heists 
and hijinks uncovered
by Lucas YiannatjiJunior Staffwriter
On October 1, a bust of Andrew 
Carnegie was burgled from the 
fourth floor of Hunt Library. The 
28-inch-by-23-inch bronze like
ness was pilfered by parties 
unknown without detection in the 
middle of the day and replaced 
with a copy of Clavier magazine 
in its place. Although it was later 
recovered, this theft is the latest 
in a long line of pranks and bur
glaries, tracing back to the days of 
football rivalry between CMU and 
the University of Pittsburgh. 
Jenni Benford of the Hunt Library 
archives department and Sgt. 
William Ricci of Campus Police 
contributed the stories and tales 
that follow.
Fearless Flagpole Climber
On November 10, 1919, during 
the height of the Carnegie-Pitt 
football rivalry, William Metcalf 
Cummins, a student at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
as CMU was then known, ven
tured out late in the night to the 
flagpole at Forbes Field. Despite 
the cold, he climbed unaided to 
the top of the flagpole to steal the 
University of Pittsburgh flag and 
replace it with the colors of 
Tech. For his heroism, he 
received his own page in the 1920 
edition of the Thistle, the school
yearbook.
No Goal Post For You, Come 
Back In One Year
Another caper stemming from 
the infamous Carnegie-Pitt rival
ry, again in early November, 
occurred in 1938. This time, the 
target was one of Pitts field goal 
posts. At midnight one Sunday, 
nine men from CIT pulled the 
uprights out of the ground, drove 
them to Scobell Hall, set them up 
above the doors and then pro
ceeded to burn an effigy in front 
of the building. This celebration 
went on until the arrival of two 
fire trucks put an end to it. The 
following Tuesday, about thirty 
men from Pitt came by to reclaim 
their property. But luckily, the CIT 
students had strung the goalposts 
wires up to their rooms, and 
heard them start creaking in the 
middle of the night. According to 
The Dorm Bagpiper, an old 
inter-dorm newsletter, of that 
week, They looked out and 
raised the alarm ... and in a sur
prisingly short time, men from all 
five dorms and even the boarding 
houses were congregated about 
the trophy and were pursuing the 
vandals toward the Cut.
The Pitt captives were then 
dragged back to Scobell Hall and 
had their hair chopped down to 
the skull.
See HUINKS, page A4
Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
Pictured before the burglary of its bell, PiKAs prized possession is a red fire 
truck. The theft led to an illegal search of Sigma Nu where it was not found.
Volume98, ol8I, sw .ulth Voa
by Andrew JohnsonEditor-in-Chief
Starbucks Coffee has purchased a 
prime piece of real estate on the cor
ner of Forbes Avenue and Craig 
Street. Craig Street has a large local 
business population, including a 
popular Chinese restaurant, a video 
store, a comics shop, and two coffee
houses. The block between Fifth 
Avenue and Forbes Avenue has just 
one national chain, Subway, and 
two locally-based banks. There are 
34 Starbucks retail stores within 20 
miles of Oakland. Bonnie Elster, dis
trict manager for Starbucks Coffee 
Company, said via e-mail that 
Starbucks examines a lot of factors 
in determining where to open new 
coffee houses, though she did not 
specify what those are. She said that 
the company spends a lot of time lis
tening to consumers, such as 
through their Starbucks hotline. The 
new 1749-square-foot location fea
tures antique architecture and 
stained glass windows. It is across 
the street from Kiva Han, a coffee 
shop and shares the block with Craig 
Street Coffee, a coffee shop, and 
eatery. The patrons of Kiva Han say 
they enjoy the place because the 
atmosphere is relaxed, and suitable 
for studying.
The coffee is actually terrible, but 
the atmosphere is nice and the sand
wiches are good, said Ian Blecher, a 
graduate student of philosophy at 
the University of Pittsburgh, adding 
that he also does not dig sterile cor
porate environments. His compan
ion, Sam Arnold, also a Pitt philoso
phy grad student, said, I come here 
because they dont care when I sit 
here for four or five hours at a time 
and only have one coffee.
Arnold visits Kiva Han about three 
tjmes a week, and Blecher comes a 
few times a month.
Blecher never goes to Starbucks 
now and will not after the new one 
opens, and Arnold said he would go
Anthony DAuria/Photo Staff
A Kiva Han patron reads her book in the shadow of the yet-to-be-opened 
Starbucks Coffee on the other side of Craig Street. Kiva Hans regulars enjoy 
wireless internet access, a feature also offered by Starbucks.
to Starbucks about half the time 
when it opens, later retracting that 
statement, saying he would go to 
just Kiva Han because he did not 
want Kiva Han to close.
Erin McEachran, a ballerina with 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, comes 
to Kiva Han about four to five times 
a week and though she hails from
Seattle, she said she will not go to 
Starbucks when it opens.
Theyre boring. If youve been to 
one Starbucks, youve been to them 
all, she said.
Paige McBee recently graduated 
from Emerson College with a degree
See STARBUCKS, page A4
--AJ.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
The daily grind
First-year architecture majors Wanshu Wu, in the blue shirt, and Lara Horton, in the black shirt, sculpt away at their 
three-dimensional landscape representations.
Citizens talk, 
meet about 
regionalism
by Celanie PolanickPillbox Editor
Last Thursday, over 150 people 
congregated in Oaklands Carnegie 
Music Hall for a Pittsburgh PostGazette Town Meeting. Post-Gazette 
executive editor David Shribman led 
a panel of five noted regional experts 
on the issues of regionalism and metropolitanism, discussing a possible 
merger of Pittsburgh and Allegheny 
County resources. Though south
western Pennsylvanians have cham
pioned the effectiveness of small local 
governments for a century or more, 
merging small municipalities or cen
tralizing services under the county 
could possibly distribute scarce 
resources more efficiently and direct 
more money to problem areas.Post-Gazette editorial page editor 
Tom Waseleski was the first panelist 
to offer a statement. He began with 
personal observations of the disad
vantage of home rule.
My name is Tom, and Im a child of 
fragmentation, he began, drawing 
chortles from the audience.
Waseleskis is a typical local com
plaint. He shares the hassle of living 
across borough lines; his familys 
decision not to live in Sewickley 
Borough, he said, was based on the 
steep taxes and other civic expenses.
His current home, Sewickley Hills, 
is a trade-off.
We have no borough building, no 
sidewalks, no streetlights, said 
Waseleski, but due to this disadvan
tage, he said, his property taxes are 
lower than they otherwise might be.
It was not always either-or, he said, 
but in the past 150 years, corporate 
tax strategy in the region has fueled 
the movement to subdivide; Andrew 
Carnegie broke Munhall away from 
West Mifflin because a lower popula
tion in his community would make 
taxes lower for him. Waseleski 
stressed the importance of under
standing the regions past, and con
tinued with a detailed history of the 
metropolitan area.
Susan G. Hockenberry, executive 
director of the Local Government 
Academy, said nowadays, corporate 
responsibility for the local economy is 
only one of the government functions 
people have come to expect; small 
governments multiplied because of 
residents desire for home rule, but 
they have proven to be less efficient.
Increased regional behavior is 
necessary for our well-being, she 
said.
But small local governments can 
sometimes pool resources without 
merging, said panelist Christopher 
Lochner, the municipal manager and 
financial director for Hampton 
Township. Hampton shares both the 
burden and the benefits of some of its 
amenities with neighboring boroughs 
and townships, at a decreased cost to 
its residents.
Hopefully, we can all agree that 
good government is effective service 
at the lowest cost for a resident, said 
Lochner.,
See PITTSBURGH, page A4
Red rover, red rover
William Red Whittaker builds his rover to drive 
itself over the California and Nevada deserts. 
SciTecli, A6
A lifetime spent learning
MacArthur Award winner Bill Strickland shares his 
love of the arts.
Pillbox, IO
Humbug on Halloween
Holiday brings little but rotten teeth and warped 
values says columnist.
Forum, A9
Founded ini go 6 
Independent since 2002
THE TARTAN
Graduate students represent CMU at Lobby Day
Cronin added that most graduate 
students income levels are below the 
poverty line.
We think the government should 
reinvest their resources into an area 
we have a distinct advantage in  
education, said Cronin.
Widge said the bill would fix an 
unfairness in the tax code that taxes 
graduate scholarships but not schol
arships given to undergraduates.
This is inconsistent, silly, and 
sad, said Widge. If passed, H.R. 3412 
in combination with The Economic 
Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation 
Act of 2001will dole out $29 billion in 
benefits, according to David Ward, 
president of the American Council on 
Education, in a letter to 
Representative English. Widge was 
pleased that the bill was introduced, 
despite waiting since March, when he 
said Englishs office originally prom
ised to introduce the bill. He said the 
bill is well off in Englishs hands since 
he is a member of the House Ways 
and Means Committee, which writes
much of the tax code legislation; he is 
also a member of the majority party 
in Congress and is well-respected on 
Capitol Hill.
Widge also recounted that the bill 
was originally ignored by Congress 
because of 9/11 and that the war in 
Iraq further distracted them from 
domestic issues like education.
Their efforts to get the bill intro
duced initially encountered opposi
tion and lack of attention from both 
sides of the aisle.
We got ... reactions from both 
sides, but people are generally sup
portive, said Cronin.
Widge first criticized stipend taxes 
in early 2002. In early 2002, Widge 
attempted to get the message out and 
gain support among graduate stu
dents and University officials.
Widge told The Tartan in 
November 2002 that he thought the 
political stars had aligned them
selves, providing at the same time 
what he sees as a favorable president 
and congress.
Foreign-born professors 
come and stay at CMU
by James TetlowStaffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University draws 
its pool of talent from all over the 
world. Many of the most wellknown and respected professors at 
the University are originally from a 
foreign country. These professors 
have been drawn to CMU and stay 
here to in pursuit of a career in 
Americas academic community.
According to Rupert Croft, an 
assistant professor of physics who 
specializes in astrophysics, what 
made him leave the U.K. was a job 
offer in America.
I came to the U.S. about eight
world, and Volume 98,IswI.o 
received two job
offers: one in Copenhagen, and one 
from Ohio State. I came here 
because I thought the U.S. would be 
more fun.
Croft said that one of the greatest 
advantages to teaching at CMU was 
that it was easier for him to feel 
accepted here than in many 
European countries, and that job 
advancement and salaries were dif
ferent here.
Croft talked about the profession
al differences between universities 
in Europe and in the U.S. He said 
that the universities in England 
judge people more on who they 
know rather than on their hard work 
and accomplishments. He also relat
ed a difference in the job market. 
There are more jobs available here 
because more people go to universi
ty here than in the U.K., said Croft. 
Also, salaries here are about 50 per
cent higher than their equivalent in 
the U.K.
Croft also said there was a differ
ence in the way CMU students acted 
compared to universities in the U.K.
Students [here] take things very 
seriously  in CMU and in the U.S. 
in general. In the U.K., students go 
drinking a lot, stuff like that.... when 
I was a student, we used to do a lot of 
stupid things, he said. Croft also 
appreciated the diversity on campus.
I also like the variety of students 
in my classes  you have people 
with purple hair sitting next to the 
typical computer geeks, he said.
Croft, who plans to stay here and 
hire a post-doctoral student, also 
enjoys the grant money he receives 
from the University. When he first 
arrived, Croft received a grant to 
build a Beowulf cluster, which has 
the computing capability approach
ing that of a supercomputer but is 
cheaper. He now uses the cluster for 
his research in astrophysics.
In the U.S., you have everything
See AMERICA, page A4
by Alex MeseguerNews Editor
This Wednesday, Thursday, and 
Friday, Carnegie Mellons graduate 
student population will be represent
ed in the National Association of 
Graduate-Professional Students 
(NAGPS) Lobby Day. Over 100 stu
dents from schools such as the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, and the University of 
Pittsburgh will gather in Washington 
D.C. for the annual event while put
ting their combined support behind a 
new higher education bill introduced 
in the House of Representatives 
which would benefit all graduate stu
dents. NAGPS members Alik Widge, 
Graduate Student Assembly vice 
president for external affairs and 
finance, and Matthew Cronin, presi
dent of the Graduate Student 
Assembly and PhD candidate in orga
nizational behavior, head to the 
meeting later this week to represent
CMU. Widge, who is pursuing his 
PhD in Robotics, is also legislative 
concerns chair for NAGPS.
The bill in question is the Higher 
Education Affordability and Equity 
Act of 2003, also known as H.R. 3412, 
which was intro
duced in the 
House last 
Thursday. If the 
bill, which was _ 
introduced by
Representative ^ A
Phil English (R - JP
Pa.), is passed, it I JmSF Jm 
will reduce taxes
on graduate, . . , Phil Englishscholarships and
increase limits on contributions to a 
students education savings account 
from $2000 to $5000 annually.
Education savings accounts allow 
money to be invested by a future stu
dents family to gain interest tax-free. 
Money a student removes from the 
account for educational expenses 
from the fund is also not taxed.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 3,2003
ftge ft
Nation, World, Academia,^Region
Weather
TUESDAYHi 74 Lo 59
ge2X
WEDNESDAYHi 74 Lo 52
/////
THURSDAYHi 56 Lo 38
FRIDAYHi 53 Lo 32
SATURDAYHi 49 Lo 37
n tJL
Theda illygrenagR
Give me back my phone, 
10/22/03,12:33 pm  A postdoc
toral fellow reported to Campus 
Police that he had checked his mes
sages after having lost his cell
phone, and found a message from a 
students mother returning a call. 
The fellow e-mailed the student 
identified in the message and told 
him to return the phone by noon on 
the day of the report, or the police 
would be notified. Campus Police 
tracked down the student, who said 
he and his friend were studying in 
the room where the phone was lost 
at 10:00 pm, and saw the phone sit
ting on the desk. Thinking the 
phone, which had Michael on the 
front, belonged to a friend, the two 
made a few calls. Later, they 
scrolled through the phones num
bers, and not recognizing the num
bers, the pair returned the phone to 
the desk, where they said it still 
resided when they left at midnight.
Passed out, covered in vomit, 
10/24/03, 7:09 pm  Police found
Emil Kiner, a 19-year-old student, 
semi-conscious and lying on the 
floor of a University Center bath
room. The responding officer 
reported that Kiner was visibly 
intoxicated with a strong odor of 
alcohol on his breath and slurred 
speech. Some EMS folks gave Kiner 
oxygen, who was then transfered to 
UPMC Presbyterian Hospital. Kiner 
will, or has received, a state citation 
for underage consumption in the 
mail.
\Drunk and rowdy, officer sus
pects drugs too, 10/25/03, 1:07 
am  An officer saw Kenneth 
Daniel stumble away from Theta Xi, 
and stop to speak to his drunk 
friend Charles Wells. Two cops 
tried to ID the men on scene, but 
they were not cooperative and the 
officers took them back to the sta
tion. While in the police car, Daniel 
stuffed the bottle of everclear he 
had under the seat. The police 
searched them fully at the station, 
and found a fake ID on Daniel. EMS 
said Daniel had a sustained pulse 
rate of 140 beats per minute, which 
would indicate some sort of drug 
use or a serious medical condition. 
He was advised that he would need 
to follow up with a doctor if he had 
not ingested a narcotic. Wells, 19, 
was issued a state citation for 
underage drinking, as was Daniel,
who also was cited for having a 
false ID, and given internal cita
tions for disorderly conduct and 
failure to comply with a University 
Official. The police called both stu
dents parents. The reporting offi
cer stated that Daniel tried to 
deceive, mislead, and lie to officers, 
repeatedly denying having identifi
cation, and not identifying where 
he had been drinking, although the 
officer observed him come from 
Theta Xi, where Daniel said he is a 
pledge. The case has been forward
ed to the Detective Bureau for fur
ther investigation. The grain alco
hol and fake ID are now evidence.
Whole bunch of stuff stolen, 
10/25/03, 3:19 pm  An officer 
was dispatched to the first floor of 
the Purnell Center for'a theft 
report. Five students had numerous 
items stolen from an hour before, 
including but not limited to: seven 
credit/debit cards, four wallets, 
four drivers licenses, one purse, 
one cellphone, one purple-knit hat, 
three books, and 10 bucks. One stu
dent also had her ADDerall and 
birth control pills stolen. The only 
item found to date is a small red 
planner, which was returned to the 
CMU police station.
Drinking on the porch, 
10/26/03, 12:51 am  While on
routine patrol, two officers heard 
some males yelling on the Pi Kappa 
Alpha porch. On approach, they 
observed Saskia Alonso, 20, with a 
plastic container filled with beer. 
Alonso was issued a state citation 
for underage consumption, and her 
mother was contacted.
Yard looks like rubbish, 
10/26/03, 9:16 pm  An officer 
observed vast amounts of toilet 
paper scattered on the front lawn, 
sidewalk, and in the branches of a 
tree at Delta Upsilon. The lawn and 
sidewalk were also littered with 
pumpkin shells. The reporting offi
cer stated the area was very offen
sive-looking and the debris on the 
sidewalk could create a hazard for 
pedestrians. Delta Upsilon was 
cited for their untidiness^
Chilling in the dorra smoking 
indo, 10/26/03,8 pm  Someone 
smelled marijuana in Morewood Ctower and called the cops. They 
knocked on room C709 and were 
granted entrance several minutes 
later. The room was occupied by 
students Brian Dellon, 20, Emre 
Ulkucu, 19, and another 19-yearold student. An officer told the stu
dents in the room they were 
responding to a pot odor com
plaint, and asked if they had been 
smoking. Dellon said they had not
been smoking, and the officer said 
the room still reeked and if there 
had been any ganja smoking, they 
should hand over any other Bob 
Hope they might have. Dellon 
changed his mind and said he had 
been smoking, and went to the desk 
and picked up a six-inch by oneinch bottle suspected of containing 
grass. Dellon also gave over a green 
plastic bong. Police also confiscat
ed a six-inch butterfly knife. The 
officer asked the anonymous stu
dent if they had any alcohol in the 
room, and he said Ulkucu had two 
cans of beer in the fridge. Police 
confiscated 20 more cans of beer 
that Ulkucu admitted to having in 
his room. Dellon received a state 
citation for possession of dope, and 
an internal citation for prohibited 
offensive weapons. Ulkucu was 
cited for underage po.session.
Nationa, ,Wrrinl dAcdd ,e dAcmA
Amphetamine Thefts: 1 
Thefts: 9
Noise Complaints; 1 
Lies to police: > =3
Page 2 Complied by 
Andrew Johnson
Wolfowitz 
defends Iraq war
, (U-WIRE) WASHINGTON  Five 
days after escaping unharmed from a 
rocket attack on his Baghdad hotel, 
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul 
Wolfowitz praised the resolve of the 
Iraqi people and reflected on his 
three-day Iraqi tour yesterday in 
Georgetown Universitys Gaston Hall.
Wolfowitz, an architect of the inva
sion of Iraq, was forced to defend his 
policies during a heated questionand-answer session after the address.
Wolfowitz described the attack on 
the Rashid Hotel and said he felt a 
sinking feeling and anger when he 
learned that a U.S. Army colonel had 
died in the attack.
The attack wounded 17 and 
marred Wolfowitzs second post-war 
trip where he saw the difficulties fac
ing Iraqs nascent democracy and the 
accomplishments in the six months 
since President George W. Bush 
declared major combat operations over.
Wolfowitz praised the dedication 
of Iraqis to rebuilding their country, 
noting that over 90,000 Iraqis had 
enlisted in various security forces.
He also commended Secretary of 
State Colin Powell for the financial 
commitment of over $9 billion from 
over 70 nations to help rebuild Iraq.
The investment in Iraqs success 
is not just an American one, but 
something shared by the rest of the 
international community, he said.
The Pentagons second-ranked 
officer also called for more vocal 
rejection of Islamic fundamentalism 
from Muslim moderates.
We face a struggle over moderni
ty and secularization, he said.
Achieving stability in Iraq and 
negotiating an Israeli-Palestinian 
peace was essential, he said, to giv
ing increased support to moderates. 
Wolfowitz lauded the petition drive 
by the former head of the Israeli 
secret service and a moderate 
Palestinian professor, which he said 
closely resembled the U.S. road 
map for a peaceful, two-state solu
tion.
Wolfowitz said he saw Palestinian 
terrorism as the greatest barrier to 
Middle East peace.
If the Palestinians would adopt 
the ways of Gandhi, I think they 
could, in fact, make enormous 
changes very, very quickly, he said. 
I believe in the power of individuals 
demonstrating peacefully.
Many students strongly criticized 
Wolfowitz and his policies during a
question-and-answer session after 
the speech.
We hate your policies. We are 
tired of being feared and hated by 
the world, Ruthie Coffman (SFS 
06) said, also calling Wolfowitzs 
policies deplorable.
The killing of innocents is not the 
solution but rather the problem, 
she said.
I would infer that you would be 
happier if Saddam Hussein were still 
in power, Wolfowitz responded. 
War is ugly, he said, but the alter
native is far worse.
Emil Totonchi (SFS 06) also laid 
into Wolfowitz for immorally 
invading Iraq, asking Wolfowitz 
what he would do when Bush lost 
his bid for reelection next fall.
You and I should both calm down 
a little bit, Wolfowitz said, adding 
that there is not much question 
about the morality of having gotten 
rid of that regime.
Some students thought the politi
cal statements students delivered 
during the question-and-answer ses
sion yesterday embarrassed the 
University.
Nearly 30 students gathered out
side Healy Hall before the speech to 
protest Wolfowitzs policies, carry
ing posters that read, The world 
hates the U.S. because of your poli
tics. Change them.
Binghamton profs 
seek early drops
(U-WIRE) BINGHAMTON, N.Y.  
The State University of New York at 
Binghamton Faculty Senate voted 
during a meeting Tuesday morning 
to adopt a resolution rolling the 
drop deadline back seven weeks to 
only ten days into the semester, with 
31 in favor and 15 opposed.
The Senates role is as an advisory 
body to the provost, and the final 
decision on what to do is up to her, 
said professor Ross Geoghegan, 
chairman of the Faculty Senate, 
referring to provost Mary Ann Swain.
I need more information before I! 
make a decision, Swain said.
We will not change anything for 
the upcoming spring semester, 
Swain said, adding that the earliest 
change could come for fall 2004.
. I am grateful to provost Swain for 
taking an objective look at the 
issue, said Student Association 
Academic Vice President Lindsey 
Krecko. I am confident that she will 
consider the perspective of the stu
dents when making a final deci
sion.
Under the resolution, students 
would not be penalized for dropping 
classes at any time between two 
weeks and nine weeks into the
semester.
They would receive a W on their 
transcripts without any pass/fail 
information, Geoghegan said. 
According to the resolution, students 
would be able to freely drop classes 
until the tenth business day of class
es. From that point until the 35th 
business day of classes, students who 
withdraw would receive a W on 
their transcripts, with neither a pass 
nor fail designation attached.
Students wouldnt really experi
ence all the adverse effects theyre 
afraid of, said associate professor 
Richard Eckert. Eckert is also a facul
ty senator and voted in favor of mov
ing the deadline.
Students dropping this late in the 
semester is disruptive, said Eckert, 
who teaches a robotics lab. My stu
dents work in groups of three, and 
Ive had three groups already torn 
apart because of students dropping. I 
had to redistribute them, which was 
very disruptive to the class as a 
whole.
I think its a generally good idea. 
It allows the class size to get to an 
equilibrium state, said political sci
ence professor David Sobek. People 
dropping late disturbs class, and hav
ing a complete roster earlier is more 
useful. I think two weeks is enough 
time to see if the class is suited to a 
students needs.
Pope turns thoughts to 
death, afterlife
VATICAN CITY (AP)  Pope John Paul II 
turned his thoughts Sunday to death and the 
afterlife, urging the faithful to pray for the 
dead and consider death merely a step toward 
eternal life.
John Paul was marking All Souls Day, a 
church holiday also known as the Day of the 
Dead, in which Catholics are called on to pray 
by the graves of loved ones.
This invites the faithful to look at the mys
tery of death not as the last word of human 
fate, but as a step toward eternal life, John 
Paul told a crowd gathered in St. Peters 
Square for his traditional Sunday appearance.
John Paul, 83, appeared in fairly good 
form, speaking more clearly than he has in 
recent weeks, although with great difficulty.
On Saturday, he skipped an evening prayer 
ceremony in the grotto under St. Peters 
Basilica to honor deceased popes, many of 
whom are buried there. Vatican television 
officials said it would be logistically difficult 
for him to reach the underground area.
John Paul has great trouble walking and 
standing and is frequently wheeled around in 
a chair by aides. He also suffers from 
Parkinsons disease, which has made it 
increasingly difficult for him to speak clearly.
Sharon to lobby 
Moscow against Iran
MOSCOW (AP)  Prime Minister Ariel 
Sharon arrived Sunday in Moscow, where he 
is expected to talk with President Vladimir 
Putin over Israels concerns over Irans nuclear 
program and a Russian-backed UN resolution 
on a Mideast peace plan.
Iran has pledged to open its nuclear pro
gram to unfettered inspections and to sus
pend uranium enrichment. But Israeli offi
cials fear Iran is continuing to covertly acquire 
nuclear arms know-how, at least some of it
from countries of the former Soviet Union, 
possibly including Russia.
The head of Israeli military intelligence 
told a parliamentary committee last week 
that, if unchecked, Iran would have a self-sufficient nuclear weapons capability by next 
summer.
Israeli officials said they would also discuss 
Russias introduction last week of a resolution 
asking the UN Security Council to endorse the 
road map Mideast peace plan, over opposi
tion from the United States and Israel.
Israel only reluctantly accepted the U.S.- 
backed plan, which aims to end violence and 
establish a Palestinian state by 2005.
The Israeli government has attached a list 
of reservations to the proposal, making its 
implementation dependent on a Palestinian 
crackdown on militant groups and stipulating 
that any monitoring be under U.S. control.
A senior Israeli official, speaking on condi
tion of anonymity, told The Associated Press 
that Israel considered the United Nations a 
hostile forum and deepening its involvement 
would hinder, rather than help, peace efforts.
We adamantly object to this and we shall 
try to dissuade President Putin from this 
idea, he said. The United States has objected 
to the timing of the resolution, citing the 
absence of a stable Palestinian government.
There was also likely to be discussion on 
counterterrorism and the sales of joint 
defense projects, such as the recent sale to 
India of Russian-made surveillance planes 
outfitted with Israeli-made advanced radar 
systems, the official said.
A Russian diplomat in Tel Aviv said he had 
no information on the likely agenda.
Visiting Moscow has become an annual 
affair for Sharon. He made his first trip as 
prime minister in September 2001 and visited 
again in October 2002.
Sharon, born in British-ruled Palestine of 
Russian heritage, says he has a good personal 
rapport with Putin. Both men spent years in 
their countrys security services before enter
ing politics; Sharon in the military and Putin 
in intelligence.
Israels relations with Russia are also col
ored by the presence of 1 million Russianspeaking immigrants, one-sixth of Israels 
population and a powerful political force.
Episcopalians to install 
first openly gay bishop
DURHAM, N.H. (AP)  After anguished 
debate, Episcopalians gathered Sunday to 
consecrate openly gay cleric V. Gene Robinson 
as a bishop  a first for any major Christian 
denomination and perhaps the beginning of 
the end for their denomination in its current 
form. The ceremony was being treated as a 
landmark event for gay activists, U.S. 
Episcopalians, their 75 million fellow 
Anglicans in other nations, and Christianity in 
general. About 4000 people were expected to 
attend the ritual at a university sports arena.
Though there have been gay bishops in the 
past, all were closeted when they were elevat
ed to their posts. Robinson has been open 
about his 14-year relationship with his partner 
throughout the process in which he won elec
tion to the new post.
A standard part of the consecration of an 
Episcopal bishop is an invitation for objec
tions. Unlike most consecrations, however, 
this time formal objections were planned by 
New Hampshire Episcopal dissenters and 
assistant Bishop David Bena of Albany, N.Y. 
Bena represents a newly formed alliance of 
conservative bishops, the Conference of North 
American Anglican Bishops.
The head of the 2.3 million-member 
church, Presiding Bishop Frank Griswold, 
would deal with objections in a dignified way, 
said James Solheim, a national church 
spokesman. If there were more than a hand
ful, or if the objectors became unruly, they 
could be asked to register their complaints in 
another room.
Corrections ^clarifications
P. Diddy runs New 
York City marathon
NEW YORK (AP)  Sean P. Diddy Combs, 
megastar of hip-hop, tried his hand at sole - 
hoping a pair of running shoes and a pledge to 
raise $1 million for children could carry him 
through the grueling New York City Marathon 
on Sunday.
The entrepreneur, known on the 26.2-mile 
course simply as No. 30,792, said he expected 
to finish the race despite a nagging knee injury 
and only two months of training.
Combs, his hair in a closely cropped 
mohawk and wearing sunglasses and an I 
Heart New York breathing strip across his 
nose, ran the first 5 miles of the race in just 
over 40 minutes, putting him on pace to finish 
in roughly four hours.
I feel great. I feel strong, Combs told NBC 
Sports during the races first hour.
Combs hoped to raise $1 million for New 
York children, dividing the money among two 
childrens advocate groups and the city public 
school system. He dubbed the effort, Diddy 
Runs the City.
Among his donors: Mayor Michael
Bloomberg, who pitched in $10,000; rapper 
Jay-Z, who gave $25,000; and Ben Affleck and 
Combs ex-girlfriend Jennifer Lopez, who gave 
a combined $78,000.
But Combs, running his first marathon, was 
by no means guaranteed to finish. He only 
trained for eight weeks, shedding about 15 
pounds in the process, and developed severe 
tendinitis in his right knee. '
Its going to be painful, Combs said before 
the race. Its going to be rough. But if we get 
through it, its telling those kids and every
body else to finish what you start, and you can 
do anything you put your mind to.
October 27: News  On page A2, in a crime and incident report, The Tartan wrote that 
CMU students Abby Bednar and Santiago Gomez had received state citations for underage 
drinking. They actually received internal citations for disorderly conduct.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, contact the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at (412) 268-2111.
Man eluded capture 
with religious ritual
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A man wanted 
in the slaying of a decorated Vietnam 
War veteran eluded capture for more 
than two years by traveling to Saudi 
Arabia to perform the hajj, the annual 
Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca.
U.S. officials learned the where
abouts of Joseph Wendell Briggs, 23, 
when the Saudi government sought to 
have him banished from the country for 
theft and assault, according to the FBI.
Sheriffs deputies from Allegheny 
County traveled to Saudi Arabia on Oct. 
26 and returned to Pittsburgh Thursday 
with Briggs. He has been charged in the 
Sept. 18, 2000 shooting of 53-year-old 
Joseph Looney and is being held at the 
Allegheny County Jail.
Investigators are still not sure how 
Briggs gained clearance to enter Saudi 
Arabia for the pilgrimage. Nail AlJubeir, a spokesman for the Saudi 
embassy in Washington, D.C., said it 
would have been difficult for Briggs to 
get permission to enter the country.
He must have known about the pro
cedure to get into Mecca during the 
hajj, said Al-Jubeir.
What is known is that Briggs entered 
Saudi Arabia in February 2001, five 
months after the fatal shooting, though 
it is unclear if he entered from the 
United States or from another country, 
said Marti Evelsizer, an FBI spokes
woman.
U.S. citizens must provide proof that 
they are Muslims when they apply to 
attend the hajj, such as a letter from the 
imam of a mosque, Al-Jubeir said. 
Converts must also prove they have 
housing during the pilgrimage, he said.
The FBI did not learn that Briggs was 
a Muslim convert until January 2002, 
said FBI Special Agent Mike Rekus. A 
federal arrest warrant on charges of 
unlawful flight was issued in February 
2002 and in May, Briggs was featured 
on the bureaus Web site as a wanted 
fugitive.
Though a state warrant was issued 
two days after Briggs allegedly shot 
Looney, the U.S. government does not 
check the passports of U.S. citizens 
leaving the country, according to Mark 
Hatfield, a spokesman for 
the Transportation Security 
Administration.
The Saudi government checks its 
own criminal records and has a list of 
undesirables not wanted in the coun
try, but Al-Jubeir said security officials 
would not have known Briggs was 
wanted in the United States unless they 
were told directly that he was being 
sought.
The FBI learned of Briggs where
abouts in July when Saudi officials 
sought to deport him, Rekus said. Saudi 
police went to the U.S. Embassy in 
Riyadh because a passport was needed 
for Briggs to send him back to the 
United States, Rekus said.
Judge says burgh 
must write new law
PITTSBURGH (AP)  When commu
nity activists challenged Pittsburghs 
parade ordinance as being unconstitu
tional this week, the city defended itself 
by saying it wasnt enforcing the ordi
nance anymore. But that strategy back
fired when a federal judge gave the city 
two weeks to come up with an interim 
ordinance until it can pass a new one 
still being written by the city law 
department. In the meantime, the 
judge ordered the city to abide by some 
regulations put forth by the American 
Civil Liberties Union, which had sued 
the city on behalf of the activists.
You cant have something where 
people just come up and say, Give me a 
permit,  U.S. District Judge Joyce 
Flowers Conti told city attorneys on 
Friday. The ACLU sued Tuesday on 
behalf of three groups planning a cross
town anti-police-violence march and 
rally for Saturday. The groups were 
asked by the city to pay for police pro
tection as a condition of getting a per
mit. The ACLU argued that such fees 
varied  and were not always required 
 meaning the city could censor points 
of view by charging higher fees.
Free speech is too important to allow 
city officials the authority to pick and 
choose who speaks and under what cir
cumstances, said Witold Vic 
Walczak, legal director of the ACLUs 
Pittsburgh office. City attorneys tried to 
defuse the situation by agreeing to let 
the groups march for $68, the mini
mum charged when a street will be 
closed by a march or a parade. The 
groups, which wont be charged a fee 
for police protection, have sponsored 
several events in recent months to 
protest the police-related deaths of 
blacks in the city and surrounding area.
You have admitted that the ordi
nance is not being enforced at all, 
Conti said. City solicitor Jacqueline 
Morrow said her office was already 
writing a new parade ordinance that 
she said will address the ACLUs con
cerns. Under Fridays agreement, Conti 
gave the city two weeks to file an inter
im ordinance with the court that can be 
used until City Council passes one. The 
ACLU will get a week to review the ordi
nance before Conti holds a hearing on it 
November 25.

---------------------------------------------------

Now you can get MOVIES IN MINUTES at Movielink, the leading
broadband movie delivery service. Download top quality movie files to watch 
at home or on the road. No subscription, no late fees and no spyware.
COLLEGE.MOVIELINK.COM
iin
Save 5<P on your first download!
Movielink
2003 Movielink, LLC. *Limited time offer, Terms and conditions apply. See college.movielink.com for dtails

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 3, 2003
.rng, Nt,osuv sb 2t,9NtIb lw0 oNIbo uI3IlJI0
HUINKS, from page A1 
Heroism Unrewarded
One cold winter day in 1957,
' then-senior Arnold Olds was cross
ing Panther Hollow Bridge when he 
heard the cries of children. He ran to 
Panther Hollow Lake to find that 
two children had gone out over the 
frozen ice and fallen through into 
the freezing water. Two older chil
dren were standing at the waters 
edge. Olds lost no time. He took off 
his watch and wallet, handed them 
to one of the boys, and went in after 
the two in the water. He risked 
freezing himself, but rescued both 
the boys.
He sent them off with police, then 
went to claim his belongings. But 
when he returned to the scene, The 
Tartan reported, the boys had run 
off, and Arnold found his watch 
gone and his wallet stripped of its 
money.
Motorcycle Mayhem
In 1963, students on campus 
began to get fed-up with motorcy
clists.
This widespread discontent sud
denly turned to action when, during 
the night, a group of students 
grabbed a motorcycle parked at the 
side of the street, carried it to the 
old student union, Skibo, and 
strung it up ten feet from the 
ground. Needless to say, the owner 
of the motorcycle was distraught, 
especially since he'd just bought it 
three weeks ago and had not yet rid
den it. He had been trying to repair 
the old motorcycle to get it working 
again.
The Puzzling Predicament of the 
Pittsburgh Pirates Parrot
The mascot of the beloved 
Pittsburgh Pirates happened to be in 
the vicinity of CMU, his Parrot cos
tume with him, when he stopped, 
parked, and left the car and his cos
tume unattended. Apparently, for 
one student, temptadon proved too 
much. When the mascot returned, 
he found himself missing a costume. 
But the story does not end there. 
According to Campus Police ser
geant William Ricci, He wore [the 
costume] to a Halloween party a 
year later, and thats how we caught 
him.
Thinking it safe to show off his 
costume after a year, he ended up 
attracting so much attention to him
self that police found him and 
charged him on the spot.
CMU Loses Its Memory
Campus Police and the adminis
tration alike were distraught in 1995 
when they found themselves faced 
with an epidemic crime wave. 
Campus computers were being van
dalized left and right by theft  not 
theft of the computers themselves, 
but theft of their internal parts, 
namely, their motherboards. 
Computers would still be there, 
looking normal in all appearances, 
but simply could not turn on.
Authorities were stumped, espe
cially at the speed with which the 
vandals disassembled and reassem
bled the computers. Finally, police 
had a breakthrough when the 
thieves left behind the industrial 
tool they used to take apart the 
machines so quickly.
We traced the serial number on 
it, called up the company that had 
sold it, and they told us the buyers 
name.... That was one we solved 
with just plain detective work, said 
Ricci. Sure enough, the buyer was a 
student at CMU. This information 
led to the implication and arrest of 
Stephen May, an SDS junior, and 
James Wang, a CIT junior. When 
police entered their room, they 
found upwards of 60 motherboards 
pirated from CMU computers, at a 
total of $115,000-worth of equip
ment.
How PiKA Brothers lost their 
Ding-Dong
For those unfamiliar with the 
intricacies of the PiKA fraternity, 
one of its proudest possessions is an 
antique fire truck, which is kept in 
the fraternitys garage. The brothers 
are also known to ride the truck 
through the city from time to time,
and legend has it that there was a 
time when they loaded the water 
tanks and opened up the hoses on 
unsuspecting bystanders. PiKA 
brothers went into the garage one 
day last year to discover that the bell 
was missing from the top of the 
truck. They had no idea who could 
have taken it, or how the perpetra
tors could have gotten in. They filed 
a report with campus police, and 
somehow Sigma Nu became a sus
pect in the investigation. This claim 
led to an illegal search of the frater
nity by Campus Police. According to 
Sigma Nu brother and Eminent 
Commander (president) Ian Kash, 
They believed we had the bell, 
which wasnt the case.... Basically, 
our fire alarm was pulled as a pre
text to look for the bell.
The search came up empty and 
the bell is still missing.
University Archivist Jennie Benford contributed to this report.
Courtesy of Hunt Library Archives
In 1938, CIT students filched the University of Pittsburghs football goal post, a 
prank born of the times football rivalry.
Craig St. coffee shops to receive new competition
STARBUCKS, from page A1
in writing. She is working at Kiva 
Han until she finds a different gig, 
maybe doing something with maga
zines.
She said she has had a history 
working for mom and pop coffee 
shops, and thats why she works at 
Kiva Han, where she has been for 
just over a month. She comes from 
Pittsburgh originally.
She said she thinks Starbucks 
treats its employees well, but that 
she does not like the companys 
imperialist attitude, saying that 
they moved in a new Starbucks
across the street from her last coffee 
shop job, and now here across from 
Kiva Han. She doesnt think the new 
Starbucks will hurt business much.
We have a lot of regulars, she 
said. All the customers have their 
special drinks and [the staff] knows 
what they are.
Kiva Han also serves sandwiches, 
while Starbucks does not.
Dave Brown, who owns Craig 
Street Coffee with his wife Lisa, said 
that he would have been more wor
ried if a Panera Bread had moved in 
down the street, since only 10 per
cent of the Craig Street Coffee busi
ness is actually in coffee.
The couple bought the company
Buns n Udders seven years ago, 
after Dave was laid off by J.C. 
Penney after working for the corpo
ration for over two decades. They 
renamed the place, changed up the 
business, and were breaking even 
within a year.
Brown said John Mutchka, the 
owner of the Kiva Han locations on 
both Craig Street and in Oakland, 
will be more affected by Starbucks, 
which is inducing him to branch out 
into sandwiches and lunch foods. 
He said that this may affect his busi
ness though, in an indirect fashion, 
as he would be competing with Kiva 
Han on the food front. Craig Street 
Coffee started out serving mostly
vegetarian fare, but has branched 
out to include more food for omni
vores.
I think it would be real hard to go 
head-to-head with Starbucks, he 
said, He said that Craig Street 
Coffee needs to sell better sand
wiches and soup, and exploit its 
competitors weaknesses.
Competition keeps you strong, he 
said.
The Craig Street Starbucks is slat
ed to open in late winter.
Not everyone likes Starbucks 
Coffee, said Dave Brown. They 
dark roast everything.
Mutchka was unavailable for 
comment.
Foreign-born professors 
come and stay at CMU
AMERICA, from page A1
you need to succeed - you have all the 
resources, said Coty Gonzalez, a pro
fessor specializing in information sys
tems and dynamic decision making 
from Leon, Mexico.
In Mexico, each professor had a 
limit on the copies they could make 
each month. Here, we have all the 
resources we need. That might actual
ly be a disadvantage, though: were 
not forced to think more creatively, 
she said. Gonzalez first came to 
America for her PhD at Texas Tech 
University, where she met her future 
husband. Her decision to stay in the 
U.S. was not entirely based on the eco
nomic opportunities found in the 
country.
We decided to stay in the U.S. 
because for him, Mexico wasnt fair, 
and for me, Jordan wouldnt be fair, 
she said. Gonzalez came to CMU for 
her post-doctorate studies which led to 
an offer to become a professor at the 
University three years ago.
I am where I want to be  this is a 
place where Ive wanted to be for a 
really long time, she said. Gonzalez 
said the biggest difference between 
teaching at CMU and Mexico was that 
schools in Mexico are less formal.
Its not particular of the campus  
its a cultural thing. People in Mexico 
are more personal  it has been my 
experience that this isnt the case in 
the States.... After my PhD I went back 
[to Mexico], and I felt very uncomfort
able at first. You can talk to the janitor 
the same way you can to the president
of the university, she said. Gonzalez 
plans on staying at the University.
Professor of social and decision sci
ences Sylvia Borzutzky, who left Chile 
in 1972 to live in the United States 
with her husband, said the greatest 
difference between Chilean and 
American campuses was that, in her 
time, there was a lot of political discus
sion on Chilean campuses. Especially 
Vietnam in the 1960s  even though 
we were in Chile, we felt very involved 
in it. Things at CMU have changed too, 
and students are much more engaged 
in politics, which is great, said 
Borzutzky. She won the Elliot Dunlap 
Smith Award for Distinguished 
Teaching and Educational Service in 
the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences last year and has taught at 
CMU for 14 years. She also believes in 
allowing students to discuss their 
thoughts in class.
I think in order to be a good 
teacher, one has to be able to listen to 
ones students. For that reason, I 
always conduct my classes as part lec
ture and part discussion. Discussions 
allow me to know what my students 
are thinking, their concerns, and 
allows them to express their ideas. 
Borzutzky was concerned about the 
recent changes to immigration policy 
that make it more difficult for foreign 
students, especially those from the 
Middle East, to come here.
Its a problem for the University, 
because these students bring in new 
ideas, new resources, and make a 
great contribution to the University, 
she said.
Town meeting held
PITTSBURGH, from page Al
But unless the city and county gov
ernments can provide incentives for 
suburban communities to pour their 
tax dollars into the roiling communal 
pot, we may never achieve a working 
definition of regionalism, he said.
Pittsburgh has come along way 
towards becoming an ideal place to 
live, said panelist Doris Carson 
Williams, president and CEO of the 
African American Chamber of 
Commerce of western Pennsylvania. 
Without the efficiency to make good 
use of our resources and keep our city 
dynamic, Allegheny County residents 
are selling themselves short, but town 
meetings like this are a start, she said.
I think we will be having more of
these, as many cities around the coun
try have had, said Williams.
Pittsburghers have a lot of catching 
up to do, said panelist John Craig, a 
retired editor at the Post-Gazette, who 
recounted many of the other panelists 
remarks.
Pittsburghers are clinging to the per
ceived intimacy and democracy of 
local government, he said, because 
they do not realize that with the status 
quo, that intimacy is already gone. 
Craig added that better organization 
would also help.
We have an inefficient resource dis
tribution system ... and we need to 
know what is going on, he said. I do 
not think you can have an informed 
debate if you do not have an informed 
electorate.
Get your laundry done in 4 minutes ...
 m
2 minutes to drop off your laundry 
2 minutes to pick it up
or
well pick it up and return it to your room
Wash & Fold Service
Details at www.housing.cmu.edu/LaundryServices 
Dry Cleaning Service also available
LAUNDRY SERVICES
Margaret Morrison Plaza next to the Womens Center
412.268.8878 
laundry@andrew.cmu.edlu 
Monday - Friday; 8:30 am - 5 pm
Laundry Services
i * * -  ' .
20% off 
Wash and Fold Service 
with this coupon
Expires: November 10, 2003

---------------------------------------------------

IBank Deposit Products and Services provided by PNC Bank, National Association and PNC Bank, Delaware. Members FDIC. 2 PNC Bank charges may apply for use of another financial institution's or 
ATM operator's ATM. Other financial institutions or ATM operators may charge for using their ATMs. 3 All loans subject to credit approval. Loan rate discount available on select installment loans with 
automatic payment deduction from a new Workplace Plan. 4 Internet, telephone, and account-related charges may apply. Equal Housing Lender.
PNC WORKPLACE BANKING
Carnegie Mellon University and PNC Bank. Working together to bring you free checking 
with direct deposit. And more.
When you sigaup for the convenience and safety of direct deposit with a Workplace 
Checking Plan, you'll enjoy:
Free checking1
Free Savings or Performance Money Market
Free account access at over 3,500 PNC Bank ATMs2(with one right in the University Center)
Free PNC Bank Check Card 
Up to 1/2/o rate discount on select loans3
Free Online Banking and Web Bill Payment with Account Link by Web4
For more information, or to open a new account, visit the PNC Bank branch at 
4600 Fifth Avenue, visit pncbank.com/wpb/cmu or call 1-888-PNC-WORK.
See PNC Bank at the Benefits and Fitness Fair on November 5 from 10-4:00.
 PMCBA1SK
Every day is an opportunity to do more.

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
3 November 2003
| Improving web searches
* CMU researchers invent better ways to search, cluster results
by Saagar PatelJunior Staffwriter
Finding what you need on the 
Net is like an art, said computer 
science first-year Alex Lince. You 
have to know where to go, what key
words to use, and what results to 
check.
Working to make web searching 
easier and more effective are multi
ple Carnegie Mellon-related 
research groups.
The technology they are develop
ing could help people such as firstyear mechanical engineering stu
dent Keith Chan, who complains 
about the lack of useful image 
search engines on the Internet. For 
anything you search for, theres 
always something you dont want: 
pornography, advertisements, or 
just incorrect results, he said.
Computer science professor Raul 
Valdes-Perez, currently on leave 
from CMU, is tackling the informa
tion overload. His Vivisimo 
Document Clustering Engine (vivisimo.com) intelligently sorts data 
sources and places them into 
groups. The software is smart 
enough to recognize synonyms, and 
accurately categorizes related sites.
This clustering allows data to be 
browsed hierarchically, simplifying 
search results.
Created in the summer of 1998, 
Vivisimo is maintained by four 
developers, and has attracted three 
to four dozen vendors. Applicable to 
nearly any database environment, 
Vivisimo was first demonstrated 
online at the companys website.
The response [to the product 
demonstration] was so good, with 
more and more traffic to the site, 
that we are now making money on 
the site, said Valdes-Perez.
Text is not the only thing being 
sorted  computer science gradu
ate student Luis von Ahn is using his 
ESP game (www.espgame.org) to 
help categorize images on the Web.
Currently, engines such as Google 
search for the text surrounding an 
image.
Von Ahn, mentored by computer 
science professor Manuel Blum, had 
a different idea. He has developed 
an online game that takes players, 
groups them randomly in pairs of 
two, and shows images.
Each player guesses words to 
describe the image, until they both 
find one in common. This word is
See SEARCHES, page A7
fIJJtwh lCluo Ne2lw, lw0 
9s2CeoIu, /toN .PEf.dP
While working to improve the 
efficiency of machines, Manuel 
Blums group is also trying to pre
vent some automation from being 
used. The CAPTCHA (Completely 
Automated Turing Test to Tell 
Computers and Humans Apart) 
program, under continuing devel
opment by CMU students, gener
ates images that boggle most 
computer recognition programs, 
but are trivial for humans to inter
pret. These images, normally just 
distorted text, are then used to 
prevent automated actions, such 
as generations of e-mail accounts 
or websites.
The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review 
reported last year that this tech
nology is being used to curb iden
tity theft.
Blum has insisted on making 
public the programs technical 
specifications.
Its a challenge to the AI [arti
ficial intelligence] community: 
Ill show you how this program 
works. Now beat it,  Blum told 
the Trib.
CAPTCHA work is now focus
ing on groups of images, instead 
of the past text-based recognition.
Users are provided a series of 
very simple images of the same 
object, and asked to identify that 
object.
Humans are better at recogniz
ing objects and complete partial 
images, making current computPage A6THE TARTAN
J.T. Trollman/Assistant Photo Editor
Matt Johnson-Roberson, a junior computer science major; David Duke, a doctoral robotics student; and Kevin Peterson, a masters ECE student, work on installing the 
GPS system'on Sunday afternoon. The wooden frame that currently houses the Itanium Intel computer and GPS system will be replaced this week by a metal housing. 
Rolling over Reds rover is Mick Stuthers, a volunteer for Red Team Racing, who works on the physical end of the project.
is swI usJJ, s3Iu AI0g, us3Iu
Under Whittaker's direction, the Red Team spends long hours preparing CMUs entry into the DARPA Grand Challenge race
by Alex MeseguerNews Editor
The Defense Research Projects 
Agency (DARPA) has challenged 
engineers to create a robot capable of 
autonomous travel across up to 250 
miles of California and Nevada desert 
terrain in ten hours.
Last spring, William Red 
Whittaker, director of the Field 
Robotics Center, had little more than 
a few parts and a plan for getting 
Sandstorm, Carnegie Mellons entry 
into the DARPA Grand Challenge, off 
the ground.
Now, the results of Whittakers 
efforts are more tangible, as piece 
after piece of equipment, some cost
ing over
$100,000, are 
attached to his 
teams refur
bished 1986 military-issue 
HumVee. Red 
Team, as
Whittaker calls 
his obsessive 
group of robot
 builders, has
tmllmeh arn g gmembers whotNmwwe.r,contribute up to
80 hours to the project each week.
The enormity of this task is huge, 
said Alex Gutierrez, TA for the 18- 
unit Mobile Robot Design course, 
where students contribute to the pro
ject under Whittakers tutelage. 
Using state-of-the-art equipment, 
the best any robot could do is eight to 
ten miles per hour, and it would cost 
half a billion dollars.
The only way Red Team will com
plete the task on a comparably shoestring budget is to develop the tech
nologies and software in-house 
rather than purchase off-the-shelf 
equipment.
What Red Team and other com
petitors such as Caltech hope to 
accomplish has never been done 
before.
Its equivalent to Lindberghs 
cross-Atlantic flight or a man-pow
ered crossing of the English channel, 
said Gutierrez.
And competition is fierce. 
According to Whittaker, DARPA has 
already rejected nearly half of the 
more than 80 teams that submitted 
technical papers on their vehicles as 
part of the race entry process.
Gutierrez said that there are no 
publicly available funds for the proSee CHALLENGE, page A7
Psychologists return to middle school
Science education will be the focus of CMU researchers study of Pgh schools
by Eli PoussonComics Staff
Two researchers from the 
Department of Psychology will be 
going back to middle school, thanks 
to a $750,000 U.S. Department of 
Education grant for the Lesson 
Planning Project. The three-year pro
ject will develop models of how stu
dents learn, and apply them directly 
to science education in Pittsburgh 
classrooms, with the goal of raising 
standardized test scores.
David Klahr, one of the principal 
researchers on the project, has a his
tory of trying to combine research 
from the psychology laboratory and 
the real world.
Junlei Li, a postdoctoral fellow 
who is the other principal investiga
tor, has just begun the first stage of 
the project, an observation of teach
ers in the classroom. Until the end of 
the year, he will spend every day in 
the classroom learning how the 
teachers plan lessons and how stu
dents respond. For each teacher 
involved in the project, he will spend 
at least one week in continuous 
observation, an ambitious and 
uncommon goal for classroom 
research.
Li said, We wouldnt understand 
what they are doing and why unless 
we followed them for at least a 
week.
Before working in the Department 
of Psychology, Li worked with the 
Center for Innovative Learning, 
where he encountered the Extra Mile 
Education Foundation, which is 
involved with the Lesson Planning 
Project. Li has volunteered in lowincome schools before, experience 
that will help when he begins work
ing in the classroom.
The Extra Mile Education 
Foundation helps to fund urban ele
mentary schools in Pittsburgh: Holy 
Rosary in Homewood; St. Agnes in 
Oakland; St. Benedict the Moor in 
the Hill District; and St. James in 
Wilkinsburg. The Foundation places 
an emphasis on a quality education 
with Catholic values, although 80 
percent of the students are not 
Catholic. The schools provide a good 
environment for the research 
because of their strong discipline and 
high parental involvement. The 
researchers received a 100 percent 
return rate on student permission 
slips, a nearly unprecedented indica
tor of parental involvement. These 
schools are primarily attended by 
low-income African-American stu
dents, a demographic that historical
ly underperforms on standardized
See EDUCATION, page A7
rl8twh 2t9us,9sCv 2suI Ibbt9tIwo
NSF-funded collaboration will improve imaging technology used in cell biology
by Teh Seng KeatStaffwriter
Much of what we know about cell 
biology comes from images obtained 
by fluorescence microscopy. Several 
Carnegie Mellon professors have 
been awarded a $2.5 million National 
Science Foundation grant to develop 
an automated system to analyze the 
data in those images.
Robert Murphy, Tom Mitchell, 
Christos Faloutsos, and Jelena 
Kovacevic will work on the five-year 
Next-Generation Bio-Molecular 
Imaging and Information Discovery 
project, a collaborative effort 
between CMU, UC Santa Barbara, UC 
Berkeley, and MIT.
Murphy, a professor of biological 
sciences and biomedical engineering, 
is the principal investigator of the 
project.
My interest is in computational 
approaches to cell biology, especially 
in determining the location of pro
teins within cells using fluorescent 
methods, said Murphy. Our main 
work here is using machine learning 
methods to classify fluorescent 
microscope images and to determine
where proteins are located within 
cells from such images.
He added that the basic methods 
for interpreting biological images are 
at the heart of the project, and the 
goal of the project is to have such 
interpretation and analysis done 
automatically.
For a while it has been recognized 
that there are limitations in the abili
ty of humans to interpret fluorescent 
microscopy images, said Murphy. I 
have been waiting for a while for 
other people to develop solutions to 
such a problem, but when it became 
clear that no one else was addressing 
the issue, we decided to address it 
ourselves.
Kovacevic, who is a co-principal 
investigator of the project and a pro
fessor of biomedical engineering, 
explained that the idea of fluorescent 
microscopy is to insert fluorescent 
dyes into live cells, attaching such 
dyes to proteins that a person wishes 
to observe. Fluorescent light of a cer
tain frequency is shone on the cells, 
which causes the labeled proteins to 
glow. An image of the cells and pro
teins being observed can then be 
taken.
The challenge is to have the analy
sis and classification of the proteins 
as an automated process from end-toend.
We want a completely automated 
process with a very high accuracy, 
said Kovacevic.
Murphy outlined three major areas 
of development for the project: intel
ligent imaging, quantifying results, 
and data mining/data basing.
Our first responsibility is to devel
op intelligent imaging techniques, 
he said. We need to design acquisi
tion algorithms that would optimize 
the amount of information that you 
can collect from a sample.
He added that the idea is to devel
op a system in which researchers 
could select images from specific 
parts of the sample at just the right 
timeand spatial-spacing so that they 
are able to obtain the most amount of 
information they can get out of a 
sample.
That is one of the main thrusts of 
the project, said Murphy.
Kovacevic will be heavily involved 
in the intelligent imaging aspects of 
the project.
My contribution is to bring stateSee IMAGING, page A7
Courtesy of Daphne Firos
Green Practices Committee interns Daphne Firos and Jasdeep Khaira sort through CMU trash at last Wednesdays Trash Sort 
2003. The group found that of the 420 pounds of trash they collected, about 130 pounds could have been recycled.
Trash Sort shows we could recycle more
by Karen HoffmannScience and Technology Editor
Last Wednesday, Carnegie 
Mellons Green Practices committee 
went dumpster-diving outside 
Doherty Hall to determine how 
much of what gets thrown out on 
campus is actually recyclable.
The trash sort was done by Barb 
Kviz, environmental coordinator, 
interns Jasdeep Khaira, a senior in 
the BHA program, and Daphne 
Firos, a fourth-year architecture 
major, as well as Al Matyasovsky, 
Penn State recycling coordinator.
They sorted 44 campus trash bags 
and found a total of 14 full bags 
worth of recyclables: co-mingledI I bottles, cans, and glass; office paper; 111? newsprint; and cardboard.
% 1? Firs said that despite the many 
recycling bins for bottles, cans, and 
glass on campus, the objects were 
prevalent in campus trash from both 
the dorms and academic buildings. 
They also found significant T. Mi ybvD
amounts of cardboard  23 percent 
of the volume collected from acade
mic buildings was cardboard.
As a whole, residence halls are 
recycling at a far higher rate than 
academic buildings, said Firos.
Of the 200 pounds of trash collect
ed from residence halls, about 40 
pounds was recyclable, while of the 
220 pounds collected from academic 
buildings, about 90 pounds was 
recyclable.
Trash sorters identified office 
paper recycling opportunities in 
Margaret Morrison Hall and Posner 
Hall and found custodial problems 
with the recycling of bottles, cans, 
and glass in Doherty Hall.
According to Firos, the waste 
audit was conducted in order to not 
only inform the campus of Green 
Practices progress, but also to deter
mine what areas on campus need 
greater recycling education.
While the campus community 
has increased its recycling since the 
establishment of recycling at 
Carnegie Mellon in 1990, every bot
tle tossed into the trash is a missed 
opportunity to make a difference, 
she said.
Carnegie Mellon currently recy
cles 16 percent of its trash.
However, the Environmental 
Protection Agencys research shows 
that 45 percent of all trash can be 
recycled.
Green Practices goal is to recycle 
35 percent of campus trash.
The Trash Sort 2003 data was so 
revealing about our campus waste 
management system that I think we 
should audit our waste stream every 
year, said Kviz.
Green Practices plans to place a 
recycling container next to every 
trash bin, as well as work toward 
reducing all campus waste.
While recycling is an important 
achievable goal, we need to focus on 
generating less waste to begin with, 
said Kviz.
For more information about recy
cling on campus, visit www.cmu.edu/greenpractices or email recycle@andrew.cmu.edu.
T

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 3, 2003
EDUCATION, from page A6
science tests. If the project is able to 
succeed in these schools, then its 
results should be replicable else
where.
After the extended period of class
room observation, the challenge for 
the researchers, Klahr said, is to put 
together a set of lessons that are 
influenced by laboratory research. 
After developing these lesson plans,
they will be teaching a class at the 
school according to these new meth
ods.
If we go into the school and try to 
give the teachers these models, they 
would have no idea, said Li. 
Becoming actively involved in the 
classroom gives the researchers an 
opportunity to refine their plans and 
test their feasibility in the classroom 
context.
The final goal of the project is
improved scores on off-the-shelf 
standardized tests. Li said, 
Sometimes a researcher comes into 
a school and wants to improve critical 
thinking, but when they finish, the 
scores of standardized tests may have 
even gone down. The scores reflect 
upon the students, the teachers, and 
the school, and may affect funding 
decisions. That [standardized test 
performance] is a very important 
practical goal of the project, said Li.
Streamlining the bio-imaging process
IMAGING, from page A6
of-the-art signaland image-process
ing techniques into this project, said 
Kovacevic.
Prof. Murphy has already devel
oped algorithms for interpretations 
of proteins in sub-cellular location 
images, she said.
The challenge here is to do the 
whole process of classifying proteins 
we identify from images automatical
ly.
According to Murphy, the second 
part of the project would be dealing 
with numerical features that describe 
the biological images so that they can 
be compared and catalogued.
That is the area that CMU will
work most in, and we are going to be 
equally working with our colleagues 
from UC Santa Barbara in this area 
too, he said.
The third task of the project is the 
development of data mining and data 
basing algorithms to analyze the bio
logical images, said Murphy.
Mitchell, director of CMUs Center 
for Automated Learning & Discovery, 
and Faloutsos, a professor of comput
er science, will be involved in the 
data mining and data basing aspects 
of the project.
Mitchell and Faloutsos are also co
principal investigators of the project 
and will work closely with colleagues 
from UC Santa Barbara and MIT in 
developing systems for data mining
and data basing images obtained 
through fluorescent microscopy.
My own goal is two-fold: first, we 
want to push the state of the art in 
automatic analysis of images of cells, 
in order to accelerate research in cell 
biology, said Mitchell.
We aim to develop computer 
methods to partly automate this 
process of analysis and discovery. 
The second goal is to develop fun
damentally new approaches to image 
analysis by the computer, whether 
the images are fluorescent micro
scope images of cells, or some other 
kind of image, he said.
Murphy expressed confidence in 
the project. We believe we will make 
significant strides, he said.
The Red Team prepares Sandstorm
CHALLENGE, from page A6
ject. The approximately $1.5 million 
already expended by Red Team only 
included about $300,000 in cash; the 
rest came as equipment donated by 
corporations.
Starting from scratch, Whittaker 
had to undertake the daunting chal
lenge of raising the money and gath
ering the sponsors they would need. 
Fortunately, organizations such as 
the Robotics Foundry in Pittsburgh 
were there to jump-start the process.
We extended a small grant to help 
raise money, find companies and 
partners, and help with the business 
end of things, said Patricia Rote, 
director of the Robotics Foundry 
Alliance. The Alliance is a subdivision 
of the Robotics Foundry, a group ded
icated to partnering non-profit 
groups with technical expertise in 
robotics, such as Carnegie Mellon, 
with regional companies in an effort 
to create jobs and advance the state 
of robotic technology.
Without the fundraising resources 
to fully fund the project, most of what 
Red Team has to work with is donat
ed by sponsors who signed on to the 
project for the potential for publicity, 
bolstered by their faith in Whittakers 
abilities as a leader and technological 
innovator.
Red is a man who says what hes 
going to do and does it. He doesnt 
mess around, said Phillip Koon, 
senior principal engineer with 
Boeing. Koon has been embedded 
with the Red Team to assist and put 
Boeings resources at Whittakers dis
posal.
He has recruited a radar expert 
from the company and requested 
high-precision machined parts for a 
sensor-stabilization system that is 
very similar to the one used on the 
Apache helicopter, also built by 
Boeing, but on a much smaller scale.
Id do this for free. I cant believe 
Boeing is paying me to do this, said 
Koon^
Boeing has also contributed a 
$50,000 radar system that will be 
used to scan the surrounding terrain
when the vehicle is underway.
Global Positioning System (GPS) 
equipment manufacturer Applanix 
has donated a state-of-the-art highprecision differential GPS system that 
costs about as much as an undergrad
uate education at CMU. The six-axis 
positional sensor system has an accu
racy of five centimeters and will 
enable Sandstorm to know exactly 
where it is, where it is going, and how 
it is oriented.
Intel has also pitched in, providing 
Red Team with Itanium processors, 
which will process the massive 
amounts of data collected by 
Sandstorms sophisticated suite of 
sensors.
As important as any piece of hardSI Nl3I l oIl2 
/Nt9N /tJJ mI lmJI 
os 2l,oIu lwvoNtwh 
oNlo 9s2I, eCa -
 StJJtl2 AI0- 
SNtool8Iu
ware is the software comprising 
Sandstorms brains. Kevin 
Peterson, an ECE masters student, is 
working on a simulation that tests the 
navigation software Sandstorm will 
use to make decisions on where to go 
and choose the fastest way to get 
there.
The software being developed ... 
should act the same in the actual 
vehicle as it does in the simulated 
environment, said Peterson.
High above Sandstorms birthplace 
on the Planetary Robotics Building 
floor, in what team members call the 
treehouse, team members work on 
another crucial component to the 
Red Teams success: accurate maps of 
the potential racecourse. Without 
these, Sandstorm couldnt traverse 
the terrain nearly as fast, because 
pre-processed aerial imagery allows 
the team to pinpoint in advance areas
that must be avoided. Sandstorms 
navigation software can then plan 
the vehicles route around these haz
ards, keeping slowdowns to a mini
mum. Following roads will be crucial 
for keeping Sandstorms average 
speed up at a level where they can 
complete the race by the ten-hour 
deadline.
The road maps need editing 
because they do not match up exactly 
with the nearly 300 gigabytes of aeri
al imagery that the team is using for 
terrain and road mapping. Precision 
is important if Red Team wants to 
travel quickly.
The most difficult obstacle to get 
through is an underpass, said 
Joshua Anhalt, ECE masters student 
and member of Red Team. 
Checkpoints may be right in front of 
the entrances and exits, making trav
el through it necessary. Our strategy 
is a combination of designing the 
route [on race day] and the map 
info.
Race day will present its own set of 
unique challenges, such as rain ruin
ing the map data and the remote pos
sibility of finding a person on the 
course.
The majority of the race will be 
off-road and the military will be 
deployed to keep people out [of the 
race area], said Anhalt. 
[Sandstorm] would probably detect 
people as a large rock or tree.
According to Anhalt and Gutierrez, 
mapping the race area is a time-consuming job that, right now, can only 
be done by humans.
Red Team is holding an open house 
this Saturday at 12 pm in the 
Planetary Robotics Building. 
Gutierrez encourages any student 
who is interested in participating in 
the Sandstorm project to show up, as 
no prior skills are needed.
With only 130 days to go until race 
day, Whittaker remains confident, 
although success is far from guaran
teed. We dont know exactly what it 
will take to succeed on race day, he 
said. [But] we have a team which 
will be able to master anything that 
comes up.
Still searching
SEARCHES, from page A6
then stored as a keyword, and players 
accumulate points by creating new 
pairs. The game, however, is more 
than it appears. The images in ques
tion and the keywords obtained can 
be used by search engines to classify 
images more accurately.
Meanwhile, other companies are 
trying to improve their search 
engines. Last Fridays New York Times 
reported a possible Microsoft-Google 
merger. The continuing production of 
Microsofts next-generation
Longhorn Operating System coupled 
with Googles gigantic user and docu
ment base could have beneficial 
results for both parties.
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
Mellon Wheny ouessigs
Friday, November 7, 8:00 by 
Saturday, November 8, 8:00 by
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the heart of the Cultural District
Family Portrait & Premiere
David Zinman, conductor 
Andres Cardenes, violin * Roberto Diaz, viola 
SIERRA: Fandangos  SIERRA: Concerto for Violin and Viola 
(world premiere)  R. STRAUSS: Symphonia domestica
I don't see, said Richard Strauss, why I shouldnt write a symphony about myself. And thats exactly what he did, painting us a picture of his family life. Plus a visit from Roberto Sierra, a composer who brings us two bright, attractive works, one based on Spanish dancing and the other in its world premiere. (Co-commissioned with The Philadelphia Orchestra.)
Behind The Notes Concert Preview (one hour before the concert): 
Roberto Sierra - Two works by one of todays leading composers.
Seriessponsor: @ MellonStudent ticket sponsor:
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
I or more information call 4 2.392.4900 or iinintKpi1tsburgbsyinpbonv.org
VewwvtI0hI
THseotLeI cpsoIt AI,oleulwo rluotwt FHlu
.I.IVuloI oNI ,Il,sw lo VewwvtI0hI
Wouldn't it be festive to celebrate the holidays in one of Pittsburgh's most magnificently 
restored historic mansions? Elegantly decorated for the holidays, Sunnyiedge is the perfect 
venue for private parties and events for those who enjoy fine dining and impeccable service, as 
well as the architecture and charm of a 19th Century mansion.
MktwwIu 'ew9NIsw, YboIuwssw fIl .s9b9olt. Olo dIutwh, 
MEut3loI Mktwtwh Rcl9tttotI, y'3lt.lY.I
UGWB 4RtboN P3IweI MEtoo,1euhND ME?J GUWKW BGWa1ZKaU5GB
///a,ewwvoI0lIa9s2a
Psych researchers go back to school
n one of over mA summer programs.................. .......................................................... I-.-....IfrE.................-------800-251-9674University Divison of International Programs Abroad
I

---------------------------------------------------

naturalresources
around fcheJ^SH!
around thecorner
great student fares!
118 Meyran Ave.
(412) 683.1881WE'VE BEEN THERE.e
eNVIRONMeNTAl DeFONSP
C4V0/0
lt t7tI yJbIJt/ss0
Summer in 
Paris 2 004
Every time a company 
makes a product, they also 
use energy and natural 
resources. Every time you 
make a purchase, you could 
save some of that energy and 
those resources. Cause when 
you buy durable and reusable 
products, there's less to 
throw away. And less to 
replace. For a free shopping 
guide, please call 
1-8002-RECY CLE.
Pastas 
Fish & Seafood
Veal
Focaccio Pizzas
Chicken 
Italian Specialties
Luc AMERICAN UNIVERSITY of DARIS
- :'-V Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.i "
, . Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
: DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*' 
i; 5405 Fifth Avenue
'Pittsburgh, PA 15232
3- (A 1 9) 441.4444Ju nui J   X io io  
{ http://www.shadysideinn.com
40 *Internet access avaialable in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suites
Consult: www.aup.edu 
Contact: su mmcr@auj*.fr
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
BUY SMART. 
WASTE LESS. 
SAVE MORES? T
Serving the Carnegie Mellon community, offering 
catering for any event of any size.
well get you there.
Double Your Employment Opportunities info kit
Study Abroad to Double YourEmployment Opportunities
To get a FREE info kit 
e-mail us: Free//i>@Abroad/Russia.com
or call us Toll Free: 1-866-889-9880
London..................$349
Paris........................$405
Rio de Janeiro...$643
New York............$209
Chicago...............$218
Fare is round trip from Pittsburgh. Subject to 
change and availability. Tax not included. 
Restrictions and blackouts apply.
RuloIuwtotI,
VCsuo, $Iluw, 
Voe0Iwo Ouh, 
f.ssu FEluotI,
3312 Babcock Boulevard 
in the North Hills Area 
Pittsburgh, PA 15237 
412-366-4948
Two 5-week 
Summer Sessions
& French 
Immersion
for Academic 
Credit
Other Special 
Programs
Mon
Tues-Thurs
Fri-Sat
Sun
Closed 
11a-lOp 
11 a-11 p 
1p-9p
Paris Office:
Tel.; 337 I 40 62 06 14 
l ax: 33 7 I 40 62 07 I 7
U.S. Office:
Tel.: I 303 757-6333 
Fax: I 303 757-6444

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
t 3 November 2003THE TARTANPage A9
Starbucks serves the best cup of 
Feoffee that you can get anywhere
Bum Lee/Art Editor
American elections need new faces
; The space at the corner of Forbes and 
 Craig that once housed the Uni-mart will 
soon house a Starbucks coffeehouse,
? going head-to-head with nearby coffee 
 shops Kiva Han and Craig Street Coffee. 
T Carnegie Mellon students should careful
ly consider their options before choosing 
; any of these establishments to patronize. 
^Merely going to Starbucks because it is
10 feet closer, or because it is well
-known, or going to Kiva Han merely
 because it is an independent business 
should not be the guiding principles to
consumers. There are more rational deci; sions that can be made.
; Many will reject Starbucks simply on 
' the basis of its evil corporation stigma,
! but do not jump on the activist bandwag! on too quickly. There are a lot of compa; nies and products to boycott for this 
; value. Starbucks is criticized for operat
ing on a corporate and multinational 
level, but this is hardly shameful. 
Corporate business tends to produce a 
more standardized and widely distributed product, but neither of these alone 
is an argument against corporations, just 
: a description that consumers should be 
;jtware of when considering a product.
 Furthermore, Starbucks provides good 
benefits and pay to its retail store work
ers, and makes an active effort to give 
3ack to the communities that make it so 
^successful. Stores hold toy drives at 
Christmastime and baristas visit local 
hospitals to distribute the gifts to sick 
children; baristas frequently participate 
in AIDS walks; and locally, Stabucks 
employees have volunteered at childrens 
I events and park clean-ups at Phipps 
Conservatory. Many will embrace Kiva 
: jHan just to support local business, but
 local businesses should be judged on the 
same standard of quality their multina
tional counterparts are. Otherwise, the 
competitiveness of the American market
place breaks down.
When thinking about which coffee to 
^ drink this winter, consider each estabDue to financial difficulty, the city of 
Pittsburgh recently laid off 109 police 
officers; perhaps consequentially, violent 
crime in Pittsburgh is on the rise. As of 
late, the official Carnegie Mellon crime 
alert is an all-too-frequent inbox 
reminder of the danger that surrounds us 
on campus. The University issued five 
alerts in October, and in the last week 
alone, there were two armed robberies of 
CMU students in the area between 
Oakland and Shadyside.
The recent rash of crime is alarming, 
but of even larger concern is the 
Universitys failure to fully respond to the 
situation. Though in the past year the 
University has sponsored the installation 
of new blue light emergency phones and 
expanded SafeWalk and escort services, 
Campus Police is now in the hot seat; if 
we truly wish to increase campus safety, 
we need more armed officers on duty.
Presently, two police cars and one 
supervisor police car monitor the campus 
around the clock. Two Parking Services 
Vehicles patrol for parking and traffic 
violations from 7 am to 7 pm, foot patrols 
conduct routine checks of all residence 
halls and academic buildings, and bicy
cle patrols constantly ride through cam
pus. This staffing is insufficient.
To their credit, Campus Police is not 
to the problem at hand, and have 
making an active effort to extend 
services. Two weeks ago, CMU 
officer Ron Pudlowski appeared 
Student Senate, urging them to 
to the University for more funding 
active patrols. His petition is appreci
ated, but we can only wonder why somelishments service, cleanliness, atmos
phere, and product. By buying into 
Starbuckss omnipresence, we risk allow
ing monopolies to dominate the market, 
quashing competition, and standardizing 
what we can expect from the high-end 
coffee market. Then again, blindly sup
porting Kiva Han makes the establish
ment less responsive to our needs. 
Businesses should struggle if competitors 
provide better and timelier service or 
more product variety.
With over 30 stores in the Pittsburgh 
area, Starbucks coffee will be available 
for years to come. When you enter any of 
these stores, you can expect to find the 
same large variety of coffees, mass-produced pastries, and in most cases, wire
less Internet access.
Kiva Han has proven friendly to stu
dents, offering a quiet place to sit and 
work, reasonably-priced coffee, and a 
friendly staff, but if you take a gander in 
the window of any of Pittsburghs 
Starbucks franchises, chances are youll 
see something very similar.
Just because the Starbucks bottom line 
is calculated back at headquarters does 
not mean that local people will not be 
staffing the location at Craig Street, just 
like the independent coffeehouses.
We should not be lead like sheep by the 
millions in marketing dollars that 
Starbucks spends, nor by the fact that 
there are so many Starbucks. We should 
be grateful that there is an opportunity 
near campus to get Starbucks coffee; we 
know exactly what we will get.
In order to optimize American busi
nesses, we should gauge our patronage 
on those things we want considered, and 
not muddle the message with hazy poli
tics or submit to the power of a corporate 
machine. We should find out which 
product we want, and how we want it 
served.
Neither Barnes and Noble, Starbucks, 
or the Gap is going anywhere soon, and 
they are what they are.
one didnt make one sooner. One violent 
assault on or near campus should be 
enough to prompt increased surveil
lance. It may be expensive for the 
University to employ new officers, but 
this is a small price for student safety.
It is the Universitys burden and inarguable responsibility to hire more cam. 
pus patrolmen, something they should 
have done long ago. But until they make 
this move  and even after they do  | 
CMU students and faculty need to do 
everything they can to avoid potential 
danger and ensure their own safety. The 
SafeWalk and escort services are strong
ly encouraged for after-dark transporta
tion, and campus affiliates should never 
walk alone, particularly at night. Though 
it is not advisable to carry weapons as a 
means of defense, pepper spray is an 
effective combatant against an assailant; 
one woman recently used it to success
fully ward off an attacker near campus.
The University Police Crime 
Prevention Unit also offers an array of 
self-improvement programs designed to 
make students more aware and in con
trol of their surroundings. R.A.D. (Rape 
Aggression Defense) classes, Operation 
Campus Watch, and office safety and 
building security surveys are all among 
the Universitys commendable efforts to 
improve safety; but students need to 
make the most of these resources if they | 
wish to be fully prepared for any situa
tion.
For more information, please visit the 
official Campus Police website at 
http://www. emu. edu/police/.
Andrew Johnson
Election reform does not exist in the 
United States. The legislature debates laws 
to regulate campaign finance, but merely 
tries to improve a poor system. Any viewer 
of Who Wants to be a Millionaire? can rec
ognize how poor decisions are made by 
large masses of people. When a contestant 
polls the audience, the answer to their multiple-choice question comes back split 
roughly equally, unless he asks a particular
ly poppy question. America needs a national 
election system that cuts down on the 
blandness of a million-person vote.
The current system fails because it cannot 
break from being a two-party system, and 
perpetuates the parties as powerhouses for 
decades. The candidates produced from 
mass-voting tend to run on vague values for 
positions .that involve actual decisions. As 
shown by the election in California, mass 
politics also have populaces electing people 
based on name recognition and media rela
tions alone. Kennedys and Bushes have 
shown an affinity for elected office for 
years.
Our popular election system also 
infringes on a candidates duty to his office 
as well, causing politicians to spend inordi
nate amounts of resources and time seeking 
reelection itself. It is a shame that presidents 
have to worry so much about keeping the 
throne in their first term, that only the sec
ond terms are usually influential years. The 
candidates who do make it through this 
rickety machine have largely bought their 
way to power through large corporate dona
tions, and the spending of personal for
tunes.
While our founding fathers were probably 
incorrect in establishing an electoral system 
that excluded people from voting, the U.S. 
should adopt an electoral college that the 
people vote for. For the presidency, citizens 
could elect regional candidates for the elec
toral college, perhaps about 10 total. These 
candidates would then be the ones to scruti
nize the various candidates and select a can
didate for their constituency. This panel 
could debate over the course of a week via 
live national television, before publicly vot
ing. Congressional elections could be done 
in a similar way.
This electoral system provides that each 
citizen has a say in deciding who controls 
the government, but it also makes sure that 
those deciding who runs the country have 
clear and personal knowledge of the candi
dates.
The difference is that under the electoral 
system, citizens decide what kinds of values 
they want supported by choosing their elec
tor. The electors then choose candidates 
based upon resumes, which is hard to make 
a large population fully interpret before 
going to the polls.
Under the electoral system though, cam
paign finance is completely reformed 
because politicians can no longer receive 
any campaign funding from corporations. 
They merely need to make their case to the 
small group of electors. Any donation from 
corporations to the electors would just be a 
bribe. You could completely remove finan
cial influence from voting by making the 
elections for electors just an evaluation and 
a choice of a standardized questionnaire 
and resume, but hyper-individualized 
America would certainly shy from this idea. 
At least the campaign for elector would be 
local, and therefore cheaper, and would also
spread any corporate donations between 
different electors.
The system also minimizes the state influ
ence on national elections by regionalizing 
the decision makers. And by having a small 
group of people select the president, or  
senator, we increase the likelihood that a{third party can break into politics. The dia
logue of America makes it clear that there is 
a heavy I did not vote the third party 
because that is throwing a vote away.J 
Electors, through deliberation, could realiz 
that they could accumulate support for k 
candidate.
The lesser of all evils decision process 
that guides American politics would be 
replaced. It is clear that power blocks and 
party lines would be present in the elec
torate, but it is much easier for 30 people to 
communicate to agree to a neutral candi
date because neither party is sure enough of 
their victory than for 200 million.
The U.S. already suffers from low-voter 
turnout, and the dialogue for involvement 
in government centers not on what people 
know, but whether they vote. Since it is 
impossible to even get all of the people out 
to click a button, we should relegate the 
duty of knowing and choosing to those we 
think can do it, who share our values. 
Politicians are not entertainers to the public 
as the impermanence of their offices s<? 
often forces them to be, and modern day 
media and communications make it imposjsible for a candidate to work properly under 
the constant scrutiny of a little-knowing 
public eye.
Andrew Johnson (johnson3@J is the edi
tor-in-chief of The Tartan. He says that i 
are pro-choice, gay-marriage-friendly, 
war.; and promise to do your homework, 
let you choose the next president for him.
Send in the troops: violent crime 
near campus should mean patrols
THE TARTAN
# Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper Since 1906
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ANDREW JOHNSON Editor-in-Chief
DANIEL GOLDMAN, Managing Editor L. QUINN ARROYO, Personnel Co-Manager
ALEX MESEGUER, News Editor JASON SUROVY, Personnel Co-Manager.
IEFF CULLERS, Photo Editor
eve of All Saints Day. All inherent positive 
meaning has been eradicated in contempo
rary Christian and secular observance.
Halloween has put [All Saints Day and 
yesterdays Festival of the Dead] into the 
shade. Lots of young people dont even 
know them anymore, said Ines Azais, who 
manages a campaign against Halloween for 
the French Catholic Church. The Church 
expected about 10,000 people to attend an 
All Saints Day celebration in Paris on 
Saturday.
The eschewal of Halloween is increasing 
in the U.S., especially among Conservative 
Jews, Christians, and Muslims, reported The 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last week. Many 
such people and their supporters condemn 
Halloween practices in public schools 
because they exclude and isolate non-parMarina Kliger/Asst. Art Edifof
ticipating students.
I can attest that it was alienating to be th^ 
only student in my elementary school^ 
Halloween parade not celebrating or wear
ing a costume. However, Halloween fosters 
many more evils than mere religious differ-: 
ences.
Halloween is big business for big busi
ness. But I dont think its something that we 
should be actively promoting in the public 
schools, said Mark Brentley, Sr., a member 
of the Pittsburgh Board of Public Education* 
in the Post-Gazette article.
If I learned anything from working '.at 
Hallmark, its that many holidays are cotfi-: 
mercially exploited, with their actual mean
ings neglected. The Post-Gazette reported
------- ------- ------------------------------
See HALLOWEEN, page Alb,
EDITORIAL STAFF
IELANIE POLANICK, Pillbox Editor
KAREN HOFFMANN, Sci. & Tech. Editor 
BARY DUNN, Sports Editor* 
vfEAL SHYAM, Comics Editor 
BUM LEE, Art Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHAN, Online Editor 
NICK ENNIS, Business Manager 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager 
JIM PULS, Production Manager 
JMES AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
. RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
WK1 .V: '.SI
* Denotes acting position
J.T. TROLLMAN, Asst. Photo Editor 
MARINA KLIGER, Asst. Art Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
John Davin, Cheryl Tomblin, 
Julie Watt
Michael Croland
Holidays come in all shapes and sizes: 
religious holy days, celebrations of right
eous values, commemorations of important 
events, and innocent times of mirth.
The hollow so-called holiday of 
Halloween does not firmly adhere to any of 
these categories and serves little construc
tive purpose.
Halloween originated about two millen
nia ago in Ireland, when pagans believed 
that the ghosts of the dead would return to 
the earth. The Catholic Church, and other 
forms of Christianity, later adopted it as the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN OCTOBER 27, 2003 Aio
Better a bad chad than a corrupt hack job
Jonathan Mendelson
Imagine a country in which a handful of groups with close ties to the 
leadership were in control of the voting systems. Imagine that a tech
nology makes the systems easily manipulable, envision a lack of 
accountability, and suppose that the country was evenly divided, with a 
few votes able to sway the result.
Thanks to electronic voting, a situation much like this has emerged, 
bringing to mind a question that Boss Tweed, the corrupt New York 
City Democratic Party boss of the time, asked in 1871: As long as I 
count the votes, what are you going to do about it? Only three years 
after the 2000 Presidential election ended with some Floridian named 
Chad as the only clear loser, Americans have stopped paying attention 
to the voting process, even as democracy faces dire threats.
Diebold and Election Systems & Software together count over twothirds of the electronic votes in the United States, and both have well 
documented Republican and fundamentalist Christian ties. Walden 
ODell, the CEO of Diebold, stated in an August 14 letter that he is com
mitted to helping Ohio deliver its electoral votes to the president next 
year. ODell is a fundraising pioneer for the Bush administration, 
using his house in July to host a $500,000 fundraiser for Dick Cheney. 
Federal Election Commission filings of Diebolds twelve directors show 
contributions of over $220,000 to Republicans and contributions 
totalling $1000 to Democrats.
Election Systems & Software was founded by brothers Bob and Todd 
, Urosevich; Todd is currently a vice-president, while Bob, oddly enough, 
currently heads the voting systems division of competitor Diebold. 
When founding the company, they were funded by Howard Ahmanson 
Jr., heir to a savings and loans fortune, and his wife Roberta, who have 
given millions of dollars to extreme conservative causes such as the 
anti-evolution movement. The Ahmansons also helped fund and direct 
the Chalcedon Foundation, a leading Christian Reconstructionist group 
which wants a fundamentalist state with the state, the school, the arts 
and sciences, law, economics, and every other sphere to be under Christ 
the King.
Conservative pundit Andrew Sullivan has labeled Christian 
Reconstructionists the American Taliban, describing them as far right 
Christians who believe that the Constitution should be replaced by 
. Biblical law, that women have no place in public life, that homosexuals 
, should be executed, that non-Christians should be forcibly converted, 
and so on.
Also, a previous CEO and director of ES&S was Senator Chuck Hagel 
(R. - Ne.), even though the company counted 85 percent of the votes in 
Nebraskas 1996 and 2002 Senate elections. Hagel became Senator in 
1996 in a huge upset in which he won African-American communities 
that had long voted Democratic. He also held and still might hold up to 
$5 million in investment funds connected to the company and failed to 
disclose this conflict of interest in Senate Ethics Committee filings.
Additionally, there have been many computer security issues involv, ing electronic voting systems. Last January, Diebolds FTP system was 
compromised and its voting software source code leaked. Then, a Johns 
Hopkins University report found problems such as unauthorized privi
lege escalation, incorrect use of cryptography, vulnerabilities to net
work threats, and poor software development processes. The state of 
Maryland commissioned a separate report and found 328 security prob
lems, with 26 critical. Recently, 13,000 pages of internal Diebold docu
ments have been circulating around the Internet, and Diebold has been 
sending out cease and desist letters and threatening lawsuits against 
the people posting them.
Given the large number of documents, they have not all been scruti
nized, but the evidence is frightening. One of the leaked Diebold e-mails 
says, Elections are not rocket science. Why is it so hard to get things 
right! I have never been at any other company that has been so miss 
[sic] managed.
Another one suggests that to run a demonstration of a voting system, 
For a demonstration I suggest you fake it. Program them both so they
y\erm OO
Jennifer Keinard/Art Staff
look the same, and then just do the upload from the AV. That is what we 
did in the last AT/AV demo.
Worse yet, there have been many accusations of vote-rigging. In an 
October 13 Wired article, Kim Zetter reports that a former worker in 
Diebold's Georgia warehouse says the company installed patches on its 
machines before the state's 2002 gubernatorial election that were never 
certified by independent testing authorities or cleared with Georgia 
election officials ... [raising] questions about the integrity of the 
Georgia election results and any other election that uses patched 
Diebold systems that have not been re-certified. In the 2002 elections, 
a Republican became governor for the first time since Reconstruction, 
and a popular Democratic Senator lost re-election by a slim margin. 
Each of these results stunned political pundits and differed by a statisti
cally gigantic 13 points from polling done immediately before the elec
tion. Exit polling in the election broke down due to technical problems 
and there has not been any statistical evidence of demographic or atti
tude changes since that would explain the results.
The list goes on and on, with A1 Gore receiving negative 16,022 votes 
in a Florida district running Diebold systems in the 2000 election, and 
with votes for Democrats registering Republican in parts of Texas in 
2002, among other problems. In each of these stories, there could have 
been actual wrongdoing involved or there could have simply been 
extraordinary coincidences.
Still, between the conflicts of interest and the security problems, it is 
clear that electronic voting is not yet ready for public use. In the rush to 
fix problems stemming from older systems of voting, many more prob
lems have come up. I prefer the punchcard I know to the computer sys
tem I dont. If there ever are trustworthy electronic systems, it will be 
because they will be open-source, independently tested, with a paper 
trail, and created by non-partisans.
Jonathan Mendelson (jmendels@J is a sophomore computer science major. He accepts all responsible replies, even if you do send them with your 
dirty, dirty, insecure machine.
Children weaned on hollow entertainment
HALLOWEEN, from page A9
that behind Christmas, Halloween is the most 
profitable holiday for U.S. business. Trick-ortreating is the favorite ritual among Halloween 
enthusiasts, but it mostly promotes negative 
consequences. Kids eat a plethora of candy that 
addicts them to sugar, makes them hyper, con
tributes to obesity, and rots their teeth. 
Violence is a common result of Halloween 
decadence. The New York Police Department 
was out in force for Halloween, reported the 
New York Post last week. The NYPD was espe
cially weary of gang violence, disruptive par
ties, and attacks against Jews and Muslims cel
ebrating the Sabbath and Ramadan, respec
tively.
Last year, the article noted, 20 headstones in 
a Staten Island Catholic cemetery were over
turned during a Halloween ruckus.
The only redeeming benefit of Halloween is 
that it encourages children to dress up, have 
fun, and act weirdly in ways that are ordinarily 
prohibited.
This liberation is commendable, but limiting 
such creativity and enjoyment to one day does 
injustice to these concepts.
Wearing costumes or attire with bold state
ments to school is fine, so long as it doesnt dis
tract from the learning environment. However, 
Halloween points towards a clear double-standard. If we allow students to go virtually all-out 
with obscene costumes in public schools on 
Halloween, then why cant they otherwise 
express themselves through dress?
If public schools allow costumes on 
Halloween, then silliness and pranks are des
tined to occur. By encouraging such practices, 
schools bring hundreds of costumed students 
together and thus invite ubiquitous chaos. The 
public school atmosphere, however, leaves lit
tle choice but to act out on Halloween because 
thats the only occasion on which moderately 
deviant behavior is permitted.
Schools should not cram creativity into one 
day, but rather abandon the zero tolerance 
agenda that suppresses personal expression 
during the rest of the year.
A Michigan high school student was sent 
home in February for wearing a shirt that 
depicted President Bush as an international 
terrorist. Schools frequently punish students 
for such bold attire, as only frivolous spooky 
costumes on Halloween are deemed appropri
ate.
Students benefit when school officials pro
vide an environment where they can openly 
express their diverging viewpoints and when 
they learn to tolerate the opinions of others, 
wrote U.S. District Court Judge Patrick Duggan 
last month.
He sided with the Michigan student, saying 
that the school had violated the students First 
Amendment rights.
Personal expression must be a long-term 
objective, not that of a single day. Halloween 
might liberate students from the confines of 
daily dress and behavior, but it is an ersatz 
alternative to supporting free expression at 
large.
Encouraging children to express themselves 
creatively is a noble goal, but they are general
ly prohibited from doing so in their schools and 
by society.
Halloween might be the exception to this 
norm, but we cannot accept it as a solution or 
momentary salvation. Halloween futilely pro
motes overloads of sugar, commerciality, and 
violence: dont give in to the sugar-high.
Michael Croland (mic@) is a junior profes
sional and creative writing major, with a minor 
in religious studies. As a Conservative Jew, he 
feels no connection to Halloween.
Fixating on 
the fix: all 
people do it
The scariest thing about addiction is its 
invisibility. Sometimes you can see it; you 
can be pretty sure that the guy sucking a 
pacifier in the hallway at four am every 
morning is taking ecstasy, or that the bonethin girl anxiously picking at her food in a 
restaurant is anorexic. But every day, we 
pass people in the street without realizing 
their hang-ups, maybe because were so busy 
masking our own. Despite its recent buzz
word popularity, the term addictive person
ality is misleading and useless. It suggests 
that only a certain type of person is prone to 
disorder. In reality, there are countless 
objects of addiction, from drugs, to food, to 
TV or the Internet. Each one of us has our 
own fixation, some healthier than others. 
Addictive personality is roughly synony
mous with human.
With so much going on behind our closed 
doors, the issue of sensitivity is very sticky. 
There is a tendency in popular media to 
ridicule what we dont understand. Eating 
disordered individuals are particularly 
exploited as a comic resource, since their 
drug of choice is not at all illegal, but a nec
essary, prevalent, and seemingly harmless 
part of the world around them. Bulimia, for 
instance, is prime fodder for sitcom humor, 
and has been an integral part of an episode 
of Seinfeld. George was upset when he sus
pected that his girlfriend was refunding 
the expensive dinners he bought for her.
Its a well-intentioned joke, and funny to 
most of the audience, who probably dont 
think twice about sitting down to a meal. 
Some, however, might find pain in the plotline. It would be hard to laugh at a joke like 
that when youre so preoccupied with food 
and weight that you literally dont know how 
to feed yourself or respond to your bodys 
needs.
Consider it differently. I blanched when I 
once heard someone describe a gun as good 
for shootin cans: Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, 
Africans. The speaker, an artillery salesman 
at a flea market in North Carolina, didnt 
know me; nor did he know my father, a won
derful man from Puerto Rico. He saw me  
a remarkably fair-skinned half-Hispanic girl 
 and assumed that since we werent so dif
ferent from each other on the surface, we 
probably think alike and appreciate the same 
humor. He was obviously mistaken and, 
most of us would agree, out of line; but is his 
behavior so different from our own?
To use another buzzword, we know that 
its politically incorrect to assault people 
because of their origin. Addictions, though, 
are like in kind with race, since they are so 
deeply ingrained in a person, borne of the 
same genes that color their skin and their 
eyes. They are arguably even more vulnera
ble to cruel jokes, since they are so presently 
and painfully attached to a person. When we 
tell a joke about a crack habit or a compul
sive overeater, were sharing socially accept
able slurs.
Of course, it wouldnt be practical  or 
any fun  to lead our lives so worried about 
stepping on other peoples toes that we never 
made a move or cracked a good joke. A light 
heart and a sense of humor are important 
things to carry, the best defense against an 
unwittingly insensitive world, and strict 
political correctness is an easy and insidious 
guise under which we sap the enjoyment 
from so many innocent things. But as mem
bers of an inherently flawed species, there 
are lines we shouldnt cross, out of respect 
and out of commiseration, and one of them 
is addiction. Though we realistically cant 
watch out for everyones bleeding heart at 
the same time, we do need to recognize that 
just as we have our soft spots, so does every
one else.
Lindsey Arroyo (lqa@J is a senior profes
sional writing major. She welcomes all responsible replies.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since igo6
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Michael Croland
STAFFWRITERS 
Adam Atkinson, Tim Bowen, Dan 
Ceppos, Kevin Chang, Jeannie Choi, Joe 
Elliott, Adam Greenberg, Ben Hackett, 
Colin Holloway, Teh Seng Keat, Molty 
McAshan, Laura Palotie, Rachel 
Papernick, Matt Rado, Brenda Reyes!, 
Lauren Sauer, Caleb Stright, Evan * 
Sundwick, James Tetlow, Katherine ' 
Thompson, Preston Treichel, Cecilia 
Westbrook, Dinah Winnick, Hannah Yi
ART
Kohta Asakura, Jeremy Canceko, '' 
Jennifer Keinard, John Kim, Bridget': 
Lewis, Grace Li, Elizabeth Levin, Julte 
Qiu, Vanessa Shyu
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Franz Harter, NickMarino, Scott Niekum, Eli Pousson;'  
Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, Ed Ryan,' 
Geoffrey Washburn, Daniel Vogel'"
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan,. 
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Orathai Sukwong, 
David Rush, Mark Rau, Kathy Saye? 
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen *
COPY
Michelle Bova, Catherine Fan, Heled 
Gruner, Adina Klein, Arthur 0Dwyei 
Annalisa Schaefer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, Jennifer 
Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi Woo, Mike ; 
Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Chris Casinghino, Erin-. 
Danehy, Steven Goldberg, James Hart, 
Kirk Higgins, Matthew Hornyak, *eovPonnurangam Kumaraguru, Nayema* 
Kuddus, Christina Kung, Rebecca Lee, " 
Jonathan Mendelson, Matt Meurer, Wit} 
Minton, Stephanie Natale, Janet Park, 
Saagar Patel, Susan Peich, Michael.* 
Preysman, Jairan Sadeghi, Christina. -, 
Shin, Lucas Yiannatji
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free, mm 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.?^ 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, ln<k* 
Subscriptions are available for the semester orf 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns' 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi{^ 
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of . ^ 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily,^ 
members of the University community. A letter; 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number., 
for verification. Names may be withheld upo^ 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be nb 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2002 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication ( 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: j 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 26^- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 1 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
SPn Assi r'-.'-i ! T,AAssanpRE
ftt,remRan sT,AAapemRaHhatt
BMSBSSSH
Considering Arnold is the governor (and The Terminator), and the whole state is 
on fire, we ask:
Why do so many crazy things happen in California?
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled and photos by Kathy Saye
Aman Kedir
Fifth-year senior 
Business Administration
Earthquakes, brush fires, Arnold. 
God already hates California anyway.
Braden Hassett
Sophomore
Psychology and professional writing
Because Californians are good-look
ing with egos, so they can do whatever 
they want.
Amol Shah
Sophomore 
Chemical Engineering
Sun makes people horny.
Lenny Lucas
Senior
Mechanical Engineering
Because the L train pulled into the 
station over the summer.
Bram Whillock
Junior
Computer Science 
Because of those damn hippies.
Mgffll
:.xmJlJiSB
'301as#
rrmmmft*
6

---------------------------------------------------

Harriott
TO AVOID FUTURE LEGAL HASSLES, LET
ME JUST TELL YOU UP FRONT THAT
MY SANDWICHES ARE RIDICULOUSLY
ADDICTIVE AND YOU WILL BE POWERLESS
ONCE UNDER THEIR SPELL.
JIMMY JOHN
IO**V **
3444 FORBES AVE. 681.9010
JIMMY
JOHNS
PITTSBURGH
22
'>2003 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE, INC.
S
NFLs not-so-better half
COLIN, from page A12
down), so a piss-poor football team 
doesnt nearly bring your excellent 
lifestyle down enough notches for 
you to really understand your pain. 
But that doesnt mean I wont try to 
help cheer you up a bit. The 
Chargers have all sorts of potential 
to be a great team, especially on the 
offensive side of the ball. Tomlinson 
is one of the best running backs in 
the NFL, no questions asked. Drew 
Brees may not be the guy at QB, but 
there are worse options out there, 
and the receiving corps has poten
tial with Boston and Eric Parker. 
Unfortunately for this team, the 
offense has yet to live up to this 
potential, and cannot seem to con
sistently score points. As seems to 
be a reoccurring theme among 
these teams, the defense is also 
lacking. With a few key players on 
D, and a better O-Line, I think this 
team could contend in a very tough 
division in upcoming years.
Now to the dirty South: the 
Jacksonville Jaguars are having 
another season to forget. Star 
receiver Jimmy Smith started the 
season suspended, and has not 
jump-started the offense in his 
return. Rookie Byron Leftwich has 
shown some signs of a good future, 
but has also thrown three picks in 
each of three games, a ridiculously 
high turnover stat. Fred Taylor is a 
solid running back, but he is too 
injury-prone to carry a team. Oh 
yeah, and the defense sucks too.
The offense has the tools (it could 
use help on the line) to contend, 
but Jack del Rios team lacks sup
port on the side of the ball he 
played so well. The defense gives up 
nearly 30 points a game, and the 
team has one more loss than divi
sion loser Houston. The offense will 
lead them to a better second half 
record than 1-6, but dont expect 
miracles until the D tightens up.
And finally, Detroit. Oh, you 
Lions, how woeful are you? I hon
estly thought Detroit would do bet
ter than any of their perennial loser 
contemporaries, but I was sorely 
mistaken. The Lions are once again 
the worst team in the NFL. Even 
great ball-coach Steve Marriucci is 
having trouble with this team. The 
first step to success in Detroit is to 
dump GM Matt Millen. His person
nel decisions are not working out, 
and as much as I hate to say it, he 
isnt a good fit in Detroit. Then they 
need to get a defense. They have to 
get a better D-line to pressure oppo
nents in the back field. Offensively, 
the team isnt inept. Joey 
Harrington will turn in good sea
sons in years to come, and Charles 
Rogers is one of the best young 
players in the game. The two of 
them will build a solid offense (if 
they get a good O-line to protect 
them). The Lions could use a run
ning back, but should focus primar
ily on defense in the years to come.
So there you have it, there is 
some hope for the chronically awful 
teams, and it all stems from 
defense. If you can stop people in 
the NFL, chances are your offense 
can put up just enough to win.
Colin Holloway (colinh@) welcomes all responsible replies to his column.
UAAs rough 
for cross 
country teams
by Bary Dunn
Sports Editor
This Saturday, at the Montrose 
Harbor alongside Lake Michigan in 
Chicago, the CMU mens and 
womens cross country teams com
peted in the UAA championships. 
While both teams offered solid indi
vidual performances, they ultimately 
did not have the team scores to finish 
atop the league.
In similar fashion to many other 
sports, Washington University was 
the dominant team, as they won the 
mens and womens championships. 
Senior Matt Hoelle led the mens 
team. The women were led by junior 
Maggie Grabow, who was the indi
vidual winner among the women.
Carnegie Mellon finished third 
overall, only two points behind sec
ond-place Chicago. Sophomore Dana 
Irrer ran 25:37 on the eight-kilometer 
course^ to lead the Tartans with a 
fifth-place finish and earned first 
team all-UAA honors. Senior Matt 
Meurer finished 11th in 25:48, mak
ing second team all-UAA, while Nick
Dpci rl pnri>
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621 -2200  wvvw.residenceinn.com/pitro
THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 3, 2003
Male swimmers win again
McCarthy, Pearson swim nationally qualifying times for second straight meet; women lose
by Colin Holloway
Staffwriter
The CMU varsity swimmers split 
their meet against Clarion this week
end, as the women came up short and 
the men walked away victorious in 
the head-to-head match-up. For the 
third straight meet, the womens 
team faced some of the best competi
tion in the division, and despite a 
solid effort, they fell to one of the best 
teams in the country. Senior Julie 
Tibor led the womens strong perfor
mance with a 1st place finish in the 
100 freestyle and a 2nd in the 200. 
Despite the loss, the womens team 
put up some of their best times of the 
season as they continue to improve.
As the women put forth a strong 
effort, the CMU men continued to 
prove they are among the best in the 
country. Junior Brian McCarthy and 
sophomore Chris Pearson, who again 
swam nationally qualifying times, led 
the mens team for the second 
straight meet. While their top two
swimmers have paved the way, head 
coach David Belowich claims that the 
other guys, who lose some recogni
tion in the wake of Pearson and 
McCarthy, have been a huge reason 
for the teams success.
Guys like Evan Powell, Brian 
Jucha, Derek Underwood, and Kevin 
Paavola have all stepped up their 
game, giving this team the depth it 
has and making us better, he said. 
Powell, Jucha, and Underwood swam 
with Pearson in the victorious 200- 
yard freestyle relay team, while 
Paavola swam an incredible comefrom-behind race to finish 2nd in the 
500-yard freestyle behind Pearson.
Another person who deserves 
mentioning is our one and only male 
diver, Sean Battis who, despite a 
tough loss, competed as well as I have 
ever seen him compete, said 
Belowich. Success like this comes 
from the rigorous training schedule 
the team is on as they look to build on 
their hot start.
We are taking these meets as step
ping stones, said Belowich, This
type of work in early November sets 
some ground work for later on.
This jump-start has already earned 
CMU a reputation, as it was reported 
that the Clarion men rested up to be 
fresh for this meet, according to team 
co-captain Brian Belowich. Despite 
the target on their backs, the men 
were able to rally and pull away.
We noticed the score was tied 
after four events, said Paavola, so 
we told ourselves to step it up and 
went on to go 1-2-3 in the 100-yard 
breaststroke to pull away for good. 
The team will face a strong meet at 
home this weekend as Emory, Johns 
Hopkins, and Case Western come to 
town. Hopkins and Emory finished 
2nd and 3rd, respectively, in mens 
nationals last year, and their women's 
teams also ranked in the top 10. The 
CMU pool, which has gained a repu
tation for being a great place to swim, 
will see some of the most intense 
competition of the year as both the 
mens and womens teams look to 
show that their training will pay off 
against some of the nations best.
IM
NEWS
Administration
Director: Mike Mastoianni x8-2214 
or mma8@
Asst. Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2214 or immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk X8-2053 or 
kiryk@
Womens President: Karoline Evans 
koe@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn
squinn@
Important Dates
Monday, November 3  Volleyball 
playoffs start.
Tuesday, November 4  Rules 
Meeting for Floor Hockey.
Sunday, November 9  Bowling 
playoffs at the PAA.
Monday, November 10  Water Polo 
playoffs start.
Monday, November 10  3-Person
Volleyball starts.
Sports in Season
Tennis  The finals were held last 
week. Congrats to the champions: 
Racketeers (majors), Breakstuff 
(intermediate), Sig Ep A (minors), 
and Hoopers (women)
Water Polo  This is the last week of 
the regular season. Playoff schedule 
will be posted at noon on Thursday. 
The playoffs will take place next 
week.
Bowling  The playoffs will be held 
Sunday at the PAA. Brackets are 
available in the IM Office.
Chess  Playoffs start this week. 
Brackets are available in the IM 
Office.
Volleyball  The playoffs are this 
week. The finals will be held on 
Thursday in the UC Gym.
Racquetball  The season has start
ed at the UC Courts. Matches are 2 
singles and one doubles. Schedules 
are available in the IM Office.
Soccer  The season has started. 
Games are scheduled Monday 
through Thursday nights and 
Sunday afternoons at both the 
Stadium and IM Fields. In the event 
of rain, stay off the fields. Also stay 
off the field during varsity practices.
Darts, Team Call Pool, Doubles Table 
Tennis, Foosball  The schedules 
are out and available at the IM 
Office. Please play all matches as 
scheduled and report scores to the 
IM Office.
3-Person Volleyball  The season 
starts on Monday, November 10. 
Brackets are available in the IM 
Office. It is a double elimination 
tournament format.
All Sports Update through Tennis 
Mens:
1. Beta 1125
2. KDR 892
3. SPIRIT 500
4. Theta Xi 467 
Womens:
1. Hoopers 950
2. Fresh Meat 733
3. SPIRIT 167
Why is it so hard for a 30-year-old
to think about retirement? When youre young, retirement
planning is pretty far down on your list of concerns. Say, somewhere between the 
melting polar ice caps and dishpan hands. And thats completely understandable. 
But by planning early and sticking to that plan, you can increase the money you'll 
have to enjoy retirement, and potentially decrease the years youll spend working. 
We offer a range of different options, including tax-deferred retirement plans, 
SRAs, and IRAs, all with low expenses. Now thats something to fall in love with.
Log on for ideas, advice, and results. TIAA-CREF.org or call (800) 842-2776
Managing money for people
with other things to think about'"
RETIREMENT I INSURANCE I MUTUAL FUNDS I COLLEGE SAVINGS I TRUSTS I INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc.. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc., distribute securities 
products. 2002 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association-Coilege Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF), New York, NY.
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO W0RK: ROOM TO BREATHE.
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest feel welcome.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens)
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) 
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius)
Secure Indoor Garage
24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail 
Indoor Pool and Whirlpool 
Fitness Center
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
End (15th), Patrick Fisher (19th), 
Mike Rossi (21st), and junior Chris 
Carroll (26th) also provided leader
ship for the Tartans.
Senior Jared Markowitz felt that 
the team tried not to misconstrue the 
outcome as a failure, because the 
teams were proud of the vast 
improvement from last years sixthplace finish.
The Carnegie Mellon women fin
ished sixth overall, as junior Nicole 
Gartner lead the way with a 19thplace finish. Gartner covered the sixkilometer course in 23:53. 
Sophomore Drea Garvue placed 27th 
for CMU, while Jocelyn Sikora 
(38th), Maureen Tang (46th), and 
K.J. Helmstetter (48th) also provided 
strong times for the Tartans.
Markowitz also claimed that the 
women were disappointed in their 
finish, but that they may not feel too 
sorry for themselves due to the youth 
and potential they have for future 
seasons.
Despite having felt disappointed 
after the championships, the two 
teams will have only a two-week 
break to move past this weekend. On 
November 15, the men and women 
will compete in the NCAA Mideast 
Regional meet.
Markowitz added that both teams 
will consider their UAA performances 
and make adjustments in order to 
prepare for Regionals  their final 
goal of the season.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
3 November 2003 THE TARTAN Page Ai2
Tartans defeat Chicago with last
by Brad Grantz
Contributing Alumnus
Coach Rich Lackner must have 
been singing Sinatra after Carnegie 
Mellons madcap victory on the 
Midway last Saturday.
Chicago, Chicago. That toddling 
town. 
With six seconds remaining and 
the ball at the five-yard line, quarter
back Jarrod Highberger rolled to his 
left and threw to senior halfback 
Ricardo Clarke to cap a 29-27 win.
The Tartans trailed 27-23 with 
only 1:48 remaining and the ball at 
their own 27-yard line. Highberger, 
who finished 11 of 27 for 136 yards, 
passed on nearly every play of the 
drive. The junior quarterback made 
two third-down completions, includ
ing one to senior Chris Kay for 15 
yards at the Tartan 35-yard line. But 
it was a 20-yard pass to firstTyear 
tight end Micah Dawson at the 
Chicago 45-yard line that had the 
crowd stunned.
It was a game that had both CMU 
players and coaches effusive with 
praise afterwards.
I thought the Chicago kids  men
 played a courageous game, said 
Lackner.
Wild and unpredictable finishes
have become standard fare when 
these two teams play. Two years ago, 
the Tartans were on the verge of 
defeat late in the game. Chicago 
scored the go-ahead touchdown with 
30 seconds to play in regulation. 
After a good return, quarterback Eric 
Zimpfer launched a 42-yard prayer of 
a pass to Josh Becker, who jumped 
and caught his first collegiate recep
tion. As time expired, Zimpfer threw 
a five-yard touchdown pass to half
back Andrew Garrod. In double over
time, Chicagos Sam Owens fumbled 
at the CMU two-yard line. The loose 
ball was recovered by defensive back 
Ryan McMillen who ran unscathed 
for a 98-yard, game-winning TD.
Zimpfer, who was in the stands for 
CMUs improbable victory Saturday, 
must have been singing some 
Sinatra, too.
Perhaps, That Old Plaid Magic?
The Maroons (1-7, 0-3) took the 
fight to the Tartans (6-2, 2-0) in the 
first half, but could only extract six 
points from 250 yards of offense and 
three red zone trips. Chicago, which 
had lost six straight, left their anemic 
rushing game on the sideline and 
went to a shotgun formation and a 
quarterback rotation. First-year quar
terback Phil Marino, marginally pro
tected by an undersized offensive line 
that had allowed 31 sacks in its first
seven games, showed a lot of poise as 
he led the Maroons on drives of 76 
and 75 yards.
The Tartans could only muster 95 
yards of total offense. Chicagos wellschooled defense limited Clarke and 
junior fullback Brad Stanley to 36 
rushing yards. Highberger threw two 
interceptions and Tartan receivers 
caught a case of stone hands in the 
chilly Windy City.
In the third quarter, sophomore 
defensive back Tom Pfister stripped 
Chicago receiver Jim Raptis of the 
ball at the Chicago 12-yard line and 
junior defensive back Adam 
Lovrovich recovered to set up the first 
Stanley touchdown, a three-yard dive 
at the 9:25 mark. Four minutes later, 
first-year defensive back Aaron Lewis 
intercepted a Marino out pass and 
ran it back 37 yards for the second 
CMU touchdown. First-year placekicker Nathaniel Greenstein missed 
the extra point, elongated by a proce
dure penalty, and CMU led 13-6. 
Chicago would tie the score on a 7- 
play, 72-yard drive capped by a 6- 
yard Marino run.
The fourth quarter saw five lead 
changes and the emergence of the 
CMU running game. Down 20-16 
with five minutes left, Stanley ripped 
off a 48-yard gallop to the end zone 
to put CMU ahead. He would finish
with 125 yards on 20 carries.
After a CMU turnover, Chicago 
needed only to go 30 yards to take 
the lead. On 3rd and 1 at the CMU 21, 
Marino was chased relentlessly by 
the Tartan blitz, which recorded 
three sacks. Standing at his own 46- 
yard line, Marino, instead of throw
ing the ball away, was dropped by 
Pfister. On 4th and 26, Marino skied 
the ball to Raptis, who in the compa
ny of three Tartan defenders, came 
down with the improbable reception. 
Marino then ran for the touchdown.
Saturdays win was the most capti
vating scene from this screenplay 
season. Since the Wesley loss, CMU is 
3-0 and tied for first in the confer
ence with Washington University, 
which visits Gesling Stadium at noon 
this Saturday in what may be the sea
sons climax. Immediately following 
the Chicago win, the Bears had 
already entered the CMU collective 
consciousness.
Im already thinking about Wash 
U, said a pensive Lackner.
Senior safety Joe Ciccarelli, who 
led the Tartans with six tackles, said, 
Were gonna beat the fuck out of 
them.
He then turned and jogged to the 
locker room with a little skip in his 
step.
And you can print that.
Vol ume98 
8,Isw.t 
harrlhngaN
T,Aeg u,AA,bmw
You know, I spend an awful lot of 
my time talking about the good 
teams in the NFL. I can analyze the 
hell out of the Bucs, the Fins, the 
Rams, the Colts, and, of course, the 
Chiefs, but I havent really focused 
on the teams that need a little help. 
Or, in some cases, a lot of help. For 
those of you who are fans of these 
chronically bad teams, the typical 
NFL season must be tough to watch. 
Not only do your teams lose consis
tently, but you also rarely hear about 
anything they do, or how they can 
get better. Well, for today at least, 
you and your crappy teams are final
ly the focus of some attention.
For those of you who follow 
Cincinnati, congratulations: they are 
actually on the up, at least when it 
comes to garbage teams. But I dont 
expect great things for a few years.
To begin, the Bengals did not need 
Carson Palmer in the draft. Jon Kitna 
is good enough to get them through 
a few tough years, and he is proving 
it so far this season. The Bengals 
needed a wide receiver threat 
(Charles Rogers), O-Line, or any one 
of the top-tier defensive players that 
were in this years draft. Palmer was 
the product of a great system at 
USC: he had tons of support, which 
is something he does not have in 
Cincinnati. The current USC QB,
Matt Leinhart, is on pace to outdo 
Palmers Heisman season for the 
Trojans last year. Point: Palmer is not 
Payton; he is not something to build 
around; and it was a waste of the 
first pick. Combine that with Corey 
Dillons desire to leave, and it looks 
to me like the Bengals could regress 
at offense when Carson steps to the 
plate. If the Bengals get talent on D, 
head coach Marvin Lewis can make 
them a solid unit, but dont expect 
that to happen if they keep wasting 
draft picks on an already adequate 
offense.
Down in the desert, Arizona fans 
have little to be thrilled about, and it 
could stay that way for a long time. 
After watching Arizona son Jake 
Plummer depart for Denver and stud 
wide-out David Boston split for San 
Diego, the offense went from bad to 
hopeless. Had the Cardinals kept 
these two and upgraded a woeful 
offensive line, the combination of 
them and up and coming running 
back Marcell Shipp couldve led this 
team to a respectable season. Ah, so 
it goes, I guess. As it is, Jeff Blake 
isnt a bad QB, and if he had some
one to throw the ball to, the offense 
wouldnt be as hopeless with Shipp 
(not Emmitt) in the backfield. But it 
matters very little, because Arizona 
cant provide anything that resem
bles a defense. Although they held 
the Niners to 13 points, this team has 
had trouble keeping opponents out 
of the end-zone all season long. Like 
the Bengals, this team needs D help 
before they can pretend to be con
tenders.
San Diego fans, it is hard to feel 
sorry for you. You are that rich, hot 
friend who has everything the rest of 
us want in one of the best cities on 
the planet (when it isnt burning
See COLIN, page All
second TD pass
Tartans defeat NYU, Brandis; winning streak reaches seven
by Dan Ceppos
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens soccer 
team extended their unbeaten streak 
to seven with a 2-1 win against the 
New York University Violets on 
Friday and a 3-0 victory over the 
Brandeis University Judges Sunday 
at Gesling Stadium.
Carnegie Mellon first plucked the 
Violets on an Alex Beck shot from 
junior defenseman Joseph Artuso in 
the 18th minute of the first half.
The second goal came in the sec
ond half off of a Dan Mastalski cor
ner kick, which was headed past 
NYU goalkeeper Michael Bonocuso 
by senior midfielder Mark Painter.
New York Universitys only goal 
came late in the game from midfield
er James Walkinshaw, whose header 
beat junior Tartan goalie Dave 
Thomas.
Thomas made a crucial save in the 
final minute as Walkinshaw threat
ened to tie the game. This third save 
proved to be the most important and 
ensured a Tartan victory.
On Sunday, the first goal came in 
the 19th minute of the first half 
when a throw-in found junior for
ward James Steidel in the Brandeis 
box.
He volleyed it to first-year forward 
Jonathan Browne who put it in the 
net.
The first half ended with the 
Tartans having out-shot their oppo
nents, and despite a few shifts in 
momentum and extremely aggres
sive play by the Judges, the Tartans 
would control the ball on the 
Brandeis side of the field for most of 
the half.
The second half began with 
Carnegie Mellon applying serious 
pressure on Brandeis.
In the 40th minute, a brilliant pass 
enabled Painter to move through a 
crowd of defenders, earning him a 
scoring opportunity, but he was 
dragged down from behind by 
Brandeis defenders in the box. The 
foul was questionably called outside 
the box, giving the Tartans an indi
rect kick which Steidel shot wide.
Minutes later, the Tartans earned
yet another indirect kick barely out
side the box, which also failed.
The Tartan pressure would contin
ue over the next 10 minutes, but 
Makridakis and his . defenders 
blocked a flurry of Carnegie Mellon 
shots before the Tartans finally broke 
through in the 27th minute.
After the third corner kick in 10 
minutes, junior defenseman Alex 
Beck connected with Painter in front 
of the net for the score.
Carnegie Mellons third goal was 
scored off a brilliant shot by Steidel, 
which froze new Brandeis keeper 
Matt Kaplan as it deflected off the far 
post and into the net. Junior mid
fielder Mike Steffa was credited with 
the assist.
We played a really hard game, we 
played together, we played like a 
team  and the score reflected 
that, said Browne.
Although Carnegie Mellon, for the 
most part, controlled the game, the 
visiting Judges proved to be a rough 
adversary.
Overall, 35 fouls were called, 
numerous cards were issued, and the 
clock had to stop twice for injuries.
Physical play is nothing new for 
this match up. Only a few years ago, 
the Pittsburgh police were called to 
Gesling Stadium to diffuse a riot 
between the Judges and the Tartans, 
which included both players and 
fans.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso 
thought little of todays rough play, 
shrugging it off.
It's always like this when we play 
[Brandeis], he said.
Thomas recorded his fifth shutout 
in the past six games.
The combined efforts of Pat 
Makridakis and Matt Kaplan was not 
enough defensively as Brandeis fell 
to 9-8-2.
The game today wasn't won for 
us, it was won for our seniors, said 
Steidel. They have given this pro
gram four amazing years, winning 
56 games and losing five-that's truly 
an amazing accomplishment, and 
this win todaywas for them.
Carnegie Mellon, now 14-1-0 and 
5-1 in the UAA, improved their 
national ranking to 13th. Gaudioso 
looks forward to his teams final and
end, the women's volleyball team 
had high aspirations entering this 
weekend's tournament, hosted by 
CMU.
The Tartans won the Lycoming 
Tournament in September, which 
featured similar teams to those at 
CMU this weekend, so they certainly 
felt confident. In a preliminary 
round robin to determine bracket 
seedings, the Tartans easily disposed 
of Buffalo State and Susquehanna. 
The Tartans therefore earned them
selves a bye and were faced with 
Allegheny College in the semifinals 
of the tournament.
In the first game, the Tartans 
found themselves within two points 
of the leading Gators, though 
Allegheny eventually pulled away 
with the win. The second game was 
even more disappointing for the 
Tartans, who presented themselves 
with numerous game point opportu
nities. They were unable to convert, 
however, as the Gators took a 2-0 
lead.
The Gators disposed of the 
Tartans in game three to move on to 
the finals where they were eventual
ly defeated by Gettysburg.
The Tartans had only suffered two 
3-0 losses this year prior to the tour
nament, in which their play was 
very disappointing, according to 
head coach Julie Webb.
Their defense was spectacular, 
said Webb, but the offense was often 
struggling.
Our sets were really inconsis
tent, said Webb. The ball was up 
but we just couldn't put it away.
This loss comes at a very unfortu
nate time of the season, as the 
Tartans will spend this week prepar
ing for next weekend's UAA champi
onships at New York University.
The Tartan team that shows up for 
their matches is often unpredictable, 
according to Webb.
Depending on what team comes 
to play determines our fate, she 
said.
With a golden opportunity next 
weekend for the Tartans, the women 
certainly hope to bring the right 
team to compete for a championship.
Compiled by 
Bary Dunn
weekend at Emory, which is current
ly ranked fourth in the country 
among Division III teams. Each team 
will be playing for a bid to the NCAA 
Division III playoffs.
Next week is a huge game, said 
Browne. Everyone will be ready and 
we're gonna give it everything we've 
got because basically our whole sea
son comes down to Emory  it's do 
or die.
We have to see what happened 
elsewhere this weekend, but it looks 
like it will come down to one game, 
said Gaudioso. They have a big 
field, a big team. Theyll be very 
tough. Emory will be the best team 
we play by far.
SportsShorts
Womens Soccer
In a short-scoring weekend, the 
Tartans emerged with a 1-0 victory 
over New York University on Friday 
and a 0-0 tie with Brandeis on 
Sunday.
The only goal scored on Friday 
came four minutes into the game 
from sophomore back Margaret 
Beck, who received a great pass from 
senior midfielder Anne Talarico. 
However, the intensity displayed on 
this possession was not continued 
throughout the remainder of the 
match. This never became an 
extreme worry to the Tartans, 
though, as NYU did not have any 
dangerous scoring opportunities 
throughout the contest.
Tartan intensity was revitalized 
Sunday against a tall, athletic 
Brandeis team in a heartbreaking tie. 
Of the 20 shots that the Tartans had 
on net, versus only five by Brandeis, 
five hit the crossbar and landed 
either back in play or out of bounds
 none resulted in goals.
Though head coach Heather 
Kendra was disappointed with the 
final outcome of the game, she 
couldnt have been prouder of the 
performance that her girls put forth, 
as she described the game as bitter
sweet.
The girls played their hearts 
out, said Kendra. [Brandeis] was 
good, but we were better.
The women will travel to Atlanta 
on Sunday to compete in their final 
game of the regular season against 
Emory.
It will be a great game, said 
Kendra. Historically they are a very 
strong team.
Following the game, the women 
will have to sit and wait until 
Sunday or Monday to be told of their 
destiny. The postseason begins on 
Wednesday November 12, as the 
Tartans hope to participate in either 
the NCAA or ECAC tournament.
Volleyball
Coming off a thumping of There were no high fives for the Tartans 
Washington & Jefferson last weekSaturday after facing Allegheny.

---------------------------------------------------

ALSO: The Guerilla Girls, the Mr. Roboto Project, The Strokes, and more.

---------------------------------------------------

STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITOR 
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Andrew Johnson 
Daniel Goldman 
Celarne Polanick 
Neal Shyam 
Jeff Cullers 
Bum Lee 
James Auwaerter 
Jim Puls
Cover by Bum Lee.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS.
4a veb2r he,ewN8b0
Boogying for charity.
5 3 J,0 a8f8w8 C,8/r2w0
The venues 4th birthday.
6 o CMU Us hitoUry
Love letters to Pittsburgh.
7 o ferra CrnddUry
A parody gets its kinks out.
8 3 vrewN Pef E8, Pswmr0
With the Mates of State.
dg iNr Vw,8.rA0
Their 33-minute new album.
yD n 9mll Vw,m2.lebn0
The story of a teacher.
12o mbweSr n,mur,-A rn0 EmlhA0
Gorey giggles at Filmmakers.
y 3 CshT.mb henbrAA0
A fall food fantasy come true.
1 8 ? COMICKAZE.
The year of Dark Horse.
18 ? Calendar.
page 9: Different Strokes for 
different folks.
Drinkable
bubbles:
At a bubble tea sale Thursday, in front of Doherty Hall, Alexander Chang gives Jessica 
Liu a straw. Tzu Chi, a Taiwanese community service group, sold the tea.
GeAAC,Mll Ul L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

The Guerilla Girls
Feminist activism directed at the jungle out there
No, Planet of the Apes is not taking over 
Carnegie Mellon. Feminists are. On Wednesday, 
students will have the opportunity to meet the 
Guerilla Girls, a feminist activism group com
mitted to bringing gender equality to the art 
world.
Since 1985, they have designed and spread 
guerilla feminism with wacky posters, stickers, 
books, projects, and actions that expose sexism 
and racism in culture, especially through art, 
politics, and film.
Now, as part of their current college tour, they 
are coming to the CMU Womens Center on 
November 5, to lecture and discuss their work.
The show will feature a history of the group, 
interactive skits, a question and answer, and a 
book signing of their recent release, Bitches, 
Bimbos, and Ballbreakers: The Guerrilla Girls 
Illustrated Guide to Female Stereotypes.
Though their faces are hidden by gorilla 
masks during appearances, they have acquired 
fame in the art world and in academia for their 
criticism.
Their art history book, The Guerilla Girls 
Bedside Guide to the History of Western Art, 
has been taught at colleges across the country 
and translated into several languages.
Marina Kliger/Assistant Art Editor
They campaign for diversity in galleries and 
promote awareness of the disparity that often 
still exists in museums, film festivals, and polit
ical bodies across the country.
They have traveled across the country and 
world bringing their message of equality to 
artists and critics as well as students across the 
globe, using humor, visual aids, and interactive 
skits at their appearances to get their point 
across.
In the beginning, the group was controver
sial, but since the 80s, they have been greeted 
by a more sympathetic audience.
They took on the art world, which has been 
discriminatory to women; theyve made a pret
ty big difference, said Rebecca Deutsch, a com
puter science major and 5th-year scholar. She 
had heard of the Guerilla Girls before, and 
admires their work.
The Girls appearance is being funded by a 
$950 special allocation from the Senates 
Funding and Recognition Committee, said 
Senate chair Vito Fiore, as well as money from 
AB Political Speakers and AB Comedy.
Theyre political, but theyre also funny, so I 
felt it was appropriate, said third-year art and 
English major Ashley Brickman.
Brickman is chair of AB Comedy, which gave 
the Womens Center $2000, according to AB 
chair Chris Smoak, a fourth-year computer sci
ence and psychology major.
AB Political Speakers put in $500, said 
Smoak, but the Girls are AB Comedys fall event.
Thats something weve been' trying to do 
more of recentiy, said Smoak, commenting on 
the joint effort from AB Political Speakers and 
AB Comedy.
cheg Wmga/wJ NOge,h VRmIIbheRah
Corrections & clarifications
October 27 A photo accompanying the article on Dumped! The Musical, was miscredited to Shafeeq 
Sinnamohideen. It was taken by Andy Lee.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. To report a correction or clarification, please contact the 
Editor-in-Chief Andrew Johnson at 412.268.2111.
CARNEGIE
ALMANAC.
JO YEARS AGO
November 3, 1953  In "the first in a series of articles which will 
acquaint Tech men and women with their fellow students from dis
tant lands, The Tartan reported that Carnegie Tech had a 86-69 
edge over the University of Pittsburgh in international students. 
One example was Haile Workneh, an Ethiopian who came to 
Pittsburgh to learn civil engineering and would return home to 
Addis Ababa to work in the Ministry of Public Health.
25 YEARS AGO
November 7, 1978  The Carnegie Mellon campus experienced 
another classic hit of apathy as a paltry 16.4 percent of students 
turned out for Student Senate elections. At the pinnacle of passivity 
was the Graduate School of Industrial Administration, with exactly 
10 students voting. Referenda to introduce plus-minus grading on 
the University level and on the college level passed in GSIA and CFA 
and failed in the rest of the colleges.
10 YEARS AGO
November 1, 1993  Several meetings had recently occured 
between administrators from Carnegie Mellon, Pitt, Carlow, 
Chatham, and the VA Hospital for the purposes of brokering a shut
tle-sharing agreement. The smaller institutions were interested in 
allowing their students and staffs to ride Pitt shuttles. Another pos
sibility discussed, according to CMU Police Chief James LaPaglia, 
was discount passes on Port Authority buses for local university 
students.'
5 YEARS AGO
November 2, 1998  Construction crews worked hard to finish 
three major projects by the end of the school year. An addition to 
Baker Hall would house new offices for the College of Humanities
6 Social Sciences, while a construction site in the middle cam
pus would become Purnell Center for the Arts. Also in the works 
was a major renovation and addition to Building D, now NewellSimon Hall. Under consideration at the time was a new dormito
ry between Morewood Gardens and Mudge House.
1 YEAR AGO
November 4, 2002  In response to allegations in an article in 
the previous weeks Tartan, the University pledged to look into 
possible mistreatment of Dining Services staff. As dining had. 
been taken over in 2000 by Parkhurst Management, the 
University no longer represented the staff. Parkhurst Resident 
District Manager asked any employees who had been mistreated 
to file a grievance. William Elliott, vice president of enrollment, 
found no wrongdoing after investigating the next week.
#sM gflBY gDINfAHsIW CKWKgeD
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--UJ

---------------------------------------------------

Dance Dance Benefit
An all-night fundraiser puts students mojos to work for charity
Courtesy of Adam Pennington
Students danced to the music of cover band 5543, one of two bands that performed during the marathon.
At 8 pm Saturday night, students gathered in 
Rangos Ballroom for a 12-hour dance party. All pro
ceeds will go to St. Judes Hospital, which runs the 
largest basic and clinical research center worldwide 
for the treatment of catastrophic childhood diseases, 
primarily cancer.
Creative writing majors and business students boo
gied down with environmental ethics majors. Student 
organizations from Greeks to Hillel to the Carnegie 
Mellon Business Association were represented in the 
twenty-three teams that signed on to dance the night 
away for St. Judes. Thumping bass pulsed through 
the halls of the UC as packs of impatient dancers in 
matching t-shirts congregated in the hallway outside 
Rangos and made a running entrance into the strobelit ballroom.
Ive never seen this many guys dance this much 
without alcohol, said St. Judes representative Kelly 
Lender.
Modeled on Penn State Universitys annual DanceA-Thon benefit, which has become the largest in the 
world, this years first-ever Dance Marathon at 
Carnegie Mellon has been in the works for quite a 
while. Director Allison Lin, a third-year business
major, has been working on the project since her first 
year.
A group of people tried to put one together when I 
was a freshman, but it didnt work out, so it was sort 
of handed down to me, she said.
The twelve students on the Dance Marathon com
mittee put in up to ten hours a week on the project, 
beginning in February when the groundwork was first 
being laid.
We all worked really hard to make it as big as we 
could, to suit it to the campus, and to just make it awe
some and a really fun time, said Lin. Our goal is to 
make this an annual event.
Dancers registered in groups of six to 10 people, and 
after registering were required to find sponsors. 
Groups could represent an organization, or just a 
bunch of friends. Individual registry was also possible 
at the door. There were 200 registered dancers, either 
regular or 12-hour, and an unknown number of 
unregistered dancers stopped by during the night as 
well. Each participant received a wristband with the 
name and diagnosis of a child they were helping to 
support. The morale committee had the job of staying
as bouncy and energetic as possible over a maximum 
period of time on zero sleep.
Were here to keep the dancers morale up, to help 
keep them happy, keep them energetic, keep them 
moving, said sophomore H&SS student Alex 
Aspiazu.
Though some dancers had signed up for the entire 
evening, others played it by ear.
Right now, Im just aiming for midnight ... then 
well see, depending on if Im passed out by then or 
not, said Aaron Rising, a senior biology major. Some 
only planned on staying a few hours from the start, 
feeling the call of RA duty, term papers, or just sleep.
Among the music on the nights play list was trance, 
hip-hop, and swing; free tap dancing lessons were 
offered at six in the morning. There were double 
Dance Dance Revolution pads in one corner and an 
ongoing game of Twister in another. Free food and 
refreshments were also available.
An exhausted but still enthusiastic crowd of allnight dancers, who had made it the whole twelve 
hours, chanted the final countdown to 8 am the next 
morning. The crowd had slimmed down a bit from the 
original horde, but there were still plenty of dancers, 
bleary-eyed but chipper, left to cheer the preliminary 
announcement of winners.
The official results will not be known until corpo
rate sponsor information comes in, but the tentative 
winners were announced as Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority in first place, fol
lowed by Delta Delta Delta sorority and Carnegie 
Mellon Business Association in second and third.
Weve made a little over $5000 for the hospital so 
far, not even counting donations or corporate spon
sorship yet  much bigger than wed expected, said 
Stephanie Mathias, head of the finance committee for 
Dance Marathon and a junior social and decision sci
ences major.
After the events financial goal was reached and the 
prizes were awarded, dancers began to trickle out of 
the ballroom in twos and threes, still smiling, but 
obviously beat.
Im tired, extremely tired. I had fun, and I would 
come back next year  but right now, all I want to do 
is go home and go to bed, said junior biology major 
Laura Miller.
T/aAtam EaAAgahJ VRmIIbheRah
4GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

A very Roboto birthday
On the fourth anniversary of the Mr. Roboto Projects opening, ADD Fest brings ten local bands in one night
Pittsburgh punk has had a place to bloom ever since 
the Mr. Roboto Projects opening four years ago; 
Roboto is a performance venue that features many 
local punk bands. Its upcoming event, the sixth annu
al ADD Fest, is a sampling of 10 of them in one go, for 
10 minutes apiece. Playing on the venues strongly 
leftist political bent, Robotos motto for this years 
ADD Fest is, Reagan had four more years, why cant 
we? For such a non-traditional venue, this unusual 
event is par for the course. The Mr. Roboto project 
started as co-founder Mike Q Roths idea to create a 
place for punk artists, especially musicians, to work 
together.
Roboto started as a place to do independent, small
er shows that focused mainly on the punk, hardcore, 
and rock bands because there wasnt a reliable venue 
in Pittsburgh for those types of shows, said Roth. 
Most of the bands would have played at house shows 
and campuses, but now local bands have a place to go. 
Before Roboto there wasnt anything that catered 
specifically to this need. Roth also had plans to cre
ate a community space featuring such things as an 
alternative library with independently published 
materials. Now, Roboto is part of a compound of pro
gressive businesses called the MultiTool, which 
includes an alternative bookstore, The Big Idea, and a 
bike promotion program called Free Ride.
Demand for a space such as Roboto turned out to 
be greater than anticipated. Having a consistent space 
helped spawn kids to start even more bands because 
they knew that they would have a place to perform. 
This fact has helped to foster an amazing music com
munity in Pittsburgh, said Roth.
The Mr. Roboto project and ADD Fest have a long 
history. ADD Fest was the first performance at the 
new Roboto venue. The first ADD Fest originated at 
the Rea Coffeehouse at Chatham College, the year 
before Roboto opened. After hearing of the opening of 
Roboto, John Fail, the creator of ADD Fest, asked Roth 
to host the event at Roboto.
The second ADD Fest, and first event at Roboto, 
was very down-to-the-wire, said Roth.
The whole ordeal was set to happen on November
12 and we did not get the keys to the space until the 
11, the night right before. Unfortunately, because of 
the rush, we forgot very important details such as 
extension cords and all the bands had to play out of a 
surge protector in the middle of the floor.
This year is Robotos fourth anniversary, so Roboto 
got to pick the bands as well as host the event.
Each year its been a different method for figuring 
out who is going to be the promoter of ADD Fest, 
said Roth. This year, figuring that it was a special 
anniversary, the Roboto board decided that we want
ed to be responsible for it.
The 10 bands chosen by the board of the Mr. Roboto 
Project range from political punk to melodic rock, and 
represent a wide range of music. The bands playing at 
this years ADD Fest are Behind Enemy Lines, of the 
political punk genre; Conelrad, a two-man technical
band; Anita Fix, folky punk; Mary Celeste, driving 
rock; Point of Attack, screamy and hardcore; Vale and 
Year, which is made up of members of the band 
Boxstep; Arrivals and Departures, melodic rock; 
Curses and Kisses, a two-woman punk band; Ice 
Capades, instrumental rock; and Sequoia, which is 
made up of the members of various other local bands.
Its a lot of fun and something different from what 
normally goes on at Roboto, said Adam MacGregor 
from Conelrad. This is a great tradition that they 
started; it really throws people a curve from what is 
expected from a show. ADD Fest is really something 
out of the ordinary for Roboto, and the whole event 
gives something back to the bands that normally play 
there.
Aside from 10 different bands, the ADD fest is fea
turing an exhibition of photography taken at Roboto 
since its opening. There is also a haiku event featuring 
poetry about Roboto, as well as a massive amount of 
cake. Emma Rehm, a friend and frequenter of the 
whole MultiTool, is providing the cake.
Deanna Hitchcock (one of the founding members 
of Roboto) and I are working on starting a vegan bak
ery, and were making a five-and-a-half foot long cake 
for the show, said Rehm. The bakery is an entirely 
separate project. The punks just tend to run in tight 
circles and we are absurdly ambitious, so the same 
few people end up starting or working on several proj
ects giving them an air of affiliation, which they dont 
actually have.
Mr. Robotos rise in popularity and success over the 
past four years, with the help of events such as ADD 
Fest, has encouraged the project to examine die idea 
of change and evolution to accommodate the increas
ing fan base.
As for Roboto in the future, there is a lot of talk 
about the possibility of acquiring a larger space, said 
Roth. Right now, Roboto is a regular storefront with 
a maximum capacity of about 150. We would like to 
be able to do slightly larger events and take advantage 
of the different opportunities that come our way that 
right now we cant do. We want to continue to focus 
on what we do and do it better. We want to be more 
than just a place to see shows. [We want to] foster a 
community.
ADD Fest is being held on November 7th at the Mr. 
Roboto Project at 722 Wood Street in Wilkinsburg. 
The cost is on a sliding scale between $4-10.
Editors Note: Emma Rehm edited the inaugural vol
ume of Pillbox.
EmR/ahega S/,dGt,gJ VRmIIbheRah
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

A love letter to Pittsburgh
fNI iI/ $twzIu calls upon local writers to woo a favorite spot with words
According to Jennifer Meccariello, director of The 
New Yinzer, the online literary magazine came about 
as a love letter to Pittsburgh. Fittingly, February 14,
2002 was the day of its first publication, and is now 
considered its anniversary. The New Yinzer publishes 
online the first Wednesday of every month, and prints 
a bi-annual paperback anthology called Storybook. 
Right now, editors are seeking submissions for the 
upcoming Storybook, to be published February 2004.
Though the New Yinzer has always sought original, 
local work, this Storybook will also feature nationallyknown writers from Pittsburgh. No contracts have 
been made as of yet, but they have a pool of 
Pittsburgh-born writers they plan to draw from and 
one has already agreed to write for this issue.
This will be a wonderful chance for untapped liter
ary talent to rub elbows on the page with nationallyrecognized writers, said Meccariello.
To fit this Storybook's anniversary theme, again a 
sort of love letter, local writers are called to submit 
writing that centers on affectionate feelings towards 
the city of Pittsburgh. Meccariello seeks essays, 
immersion nonfiction, fiction, poetry, or prose poetry 
that is grounded in a locale, so that the location of 
the story can almost become a character unto itself: 
essentially, writing that is more about place than peo
ple.
Im especially eager to see writers mix genres in 
this book, and to as non-literally as possible tell me 
what they love, she said.
Though now she mostly takes care of the day-to-day 
practicalities of the organization such as finances and 
coordinations with partnerships, the other editors on 
the staff carefully select the best writing with these 
thoughts in mind.
When I was editing the magazine more, I looked 
for a fully-developed voice, a wonderful story that sur
prised me, and an offbeat, experimental, or altogeth
er different way of telling a story, she said. The three 
sections of The New Yinzer, Features, Fiction, and 
Also, are edited by Margaret Emery, Seth Madej, and 
David Griffith respectively. Ian Falcon is promotions 
manager and Jennifer Lawton is the art editor.
Art submissions are also welcome both for the 
monthly online publication and for Februarys 
Storybook. Illustrations are enthusiastically accepted 
as well, especially drawing, painting, and photogra
phy. Each months online issue and each Storybook 
has a different look, due to the variety of styles of the 
selected artists.
The art director of The New Yinzer, Jennifer Lawton, 
asks artists to e-mail her some samples of their work 
so she can become familiar with their style and see 
which stories it would complement best.
I try to let artists use the New Yinzer as a workshop, 
a place to try out new ideas without too many con
strictions, she said.
According to Meccariello, not only will the upcom
ing issue be stocked in the usual local, independent 
establishments, such as the Copacetic Comics 
Company, Heads Together Video, Slacker, 
Picturesque, Boxheart Expressions, Caliban, Pauls 
Compact Discs, Dreaming Ant DVD (in the back of 
Crazy Mocha Coffee), but also at local branches of 
national chain book stores. This issue will have an 
ISBN number, which allows stores to keep track of 
when people purchase those books, which makes sellng them in chain stores such as Barnes & Noble possi
ble.
Though it is a nonprofit organization, not a busi
ness, The New Yinzer hopes to begin to support itself 
from selling Storybooks, after having received a sub
stantial amount of money from the Sprout Fund to get 
started.
Wed be nowhere without the Sprout grant, said 
Meccariello.
Founded in 2001, Sprout is a nonprofit organization 
whose purpose is to identify innovative, civic-minded 
ideas and provide funding to them, anywhere from 
$500 to $10,000. Sprout is modeled after Allegheny 
County Chief Executive Jim Rodde/s grassroots New 
Idea Factory.
The New Yinzer was one of the first beneficiaries of 
Sprout funds, before Sprout changed its methods of 
monetary distribution; because of this, Sprout gave 
The New Yinzer almost $10,000 as a lump sum, rather 
than parceling it out over a years time as it does now. 
This money provided for the printed Storybooks and 
supplies for events such as readings. Its website is 
hosted for free by pair Networks, a Pittsburgh compa
ny.
The New Yinzer is also working on forming a literary 
collective, a project of the Ground Zero Action 
Network, called The Forgery: Pittsburgh Literary 
Works, along with other small presses like Salt, 
Incredibly Thin, RattleCat Press, Magazino, Creative
Nonfiction Foundation, and Ecriture. The collective 
plans to share an office space, start a writing educa
tion center, and hold writing workshops for aspiring 
writers in addition to publishing their work.
Getting published is a vital part of embarking on a 
writing career, said Cindy Yogmas, Assistant Arts & 
Entertainment Editor for Pulp, who contributed two 
pieces to The New Yinzers online magazine and one, 
Bedtime Stories, to its first Storybook. Journalism is 
a good forum to try for this, she said, but might not be 
enough on its own.
Writing for a magazine like the New Yinzer is equal
ly important, because not only does it show the scope 
of your creative capabilities as a writer, it also keeps 
your creative writing skills in tune, she said.
Robert Isenberg, a local writer who gained experi
ence working on the Pitt News, believes that publica
tions like The New Yinzer are vital for a burgeoning 
writer.
T7ie New Yinzer, because its monthly, is a unique 
chance for people of small-to-no-name stature to pub
lish, he said. In this field, [getting published] is what 
makes a writer feel confident enough to continue pur
suing his or her dream.
Yogmas has watched The New Yinzer from its con
ception, through the planning stages, to its realization 
and subsequent development. Yogmas attended the 
University of Pittsburgh with both of the founders, 
Meccariello and David Madden, who has since begun 
his graduate studies in Nebraska, where they were all 
writing majors. Isenberg has also been around from 
the beginning.
I wrote a sort of art review for the first issue, and 
my relationship with the crew has been consistently 
awesome since then, said Isenberg. Writing for The 
New Yinzer  since it has less a stylistic blue note, I 
think, in all its work  is sort of like working on a jig
saw puzzle, where the big picture isnt as important as 
examining the shape and color of the individual 
pieces.
The staff has always been inspirational  you can 
talk with them, theyre hipsters, theyre friends; 
theyre the burgeoning Algonquin Round Table of 
Pittsburgh, said Isenberg.
Guidelines for submissions include a word count of
50-4000 words and a deadline of December 1, 2003. 
The New Yinzer asks for writing that has not been pub
lished before. Writers should be prepared for revision 
work with editors during the month of December. 
Further guidelines can be found on The New Yinzers 
website www.newyinzer.com. Published participants 
will be paid a flat fee of $25 in addition to a The New 
Yinzer tee-shirt and five free books.
fggmAetm Vr/maIahJ T,Gw VRmIIAnnalisa Schaefer/Copy Staff
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

5 Telnet urJy.jnJrcw.cmacdo in Ixl .nrfpeu.cmi.erfii'. no vie *"* H
% movie
by jim puls, 
production manager
a
Barry Trotter and its silly smut
Michael Gerbers shameless parody falls flat
The Harry Potter phenomenon has led to five books, 
two movies with a third in the works, and countless 
merchandising opportunities ranging from Christmas 
ornaments to collectible card games. With anything 
this popular come rip-offs and parodies. At least Barry 
Trotter and the Unnecessary Sequel, by Michael Gerber, 
is self-aware enough to be the latter. However, that is 
the best thing that can be said about it.
To try to enjoy anything in this book, a reader needs 
to have read J.K. Rowlings Harry Potter books. There 
are a lot of jokes that can only be understood by 
comparing them to specific moments in the Potter 
books. Still, many people have read the Potter chroni
cles by now, even college students; J.K. Rowling even 
put out an edition of Potter paperbacks with plain cov
ers, so older readers wouldnt feel embarrassed.
In this book, Barry Trotter is a 38-year-old wizard. 
He is married to Ermine and has a son and a daughter. 
Son Nigels upcoming start at Hogwash brings every
one back to the school. The first death there sets the 
tone for the rest of the book.
Dorco Malfeasance, the Headmister of Hogwash, 
dies by explosion. This isnt caused by magic  while 
making a flying entrance into the Hogwash dining 
hall, he collapses under his own weight after falling 
from a height. Barry, dining nearby, keeps eating, and 
is wholly unaffected, apart from being offered Dorcos 
job.
This doesnt even make the list of the top ten worst 
moments in the book. Byron, one of Nigels class
mates, introduces himself to Nigel by saying, Ive had 
sex with my sister, and tasted of human flesh.
The worst passage is probably the one about the 
death of Dorcos clone, Larval. (Yes, clone. There are 
at least two clones in the book, though other charac
ters were working on creating more.)
Larval dies at a Quiddit practice, after members of 
his team, the Silverfish, pee on the Grittyfloor team 
on the field. Barry casts a spell returning their urine to 
their bladders, along with some extra from the 
Grittyfloor team, and the Silverfish team is rather 
upset by this. Nigel gets into a fistfight with Larval 
and punches him in the stomach, causing him to 
explode in a golden shower.
Speaking of golden showers, that is one of the few 
sexual fetishes left out of the book. Every character is 
an oversexed homosexual, an oversexed bisexual, or 
just plain oversexed, and takes every opportunity to 
talk about it.
When Barry runs into Colin Creepy at the Hogwash 
reunion, Colin brings up the time that they were can
ing other students together in the Headmisters office. 
Barry and Ermine bring up their extensive sexual his
tories several times, often in front of Nigel.
Lon Measly has had a partial brain replacement, 
leaving him acting like a dog 90 percent of the time, 
which leads to his humping Lord Valumart  HeWho-Smells  on the leg.
Gerber has even invented some fetishes that cur
rently have no names. One such could be called 
reverse-Michael Jacksonism: Lons father, Mr. 
Measly, discovers hes gay after his last kid moves out 
of the house, and uses magic to change himself into an 
elegant black man. Gerber loves to change the names 
of everything in Potterdom just enough to make read
ing the book a chore. Every character has to be men
tioned, even minor ones like Colin. Here, theres a 
sampling of characters across all the Potter books up 
to Goblet of Fire crammed into 321 pages of story. 
Keeping track of so many names is hard enough when 
a book is enjoyable.
It would also probably help if said story wasnt so 
generic: Barry has to stop someone from doing some
thing bad. He doesnt exactly know what the problem 
is, but hes already got his suspect  Professor Snipe. 
Of course, it isnt Snipe. Snipes too busy drinking 
after not getting the Defense Against the Dorc Arts job 
or Headmister position that Barry and Ermine got.
Then, Barry is affected with youthanasia, which 
means he keeps getting younger. Once hes unborn, 
hes toast. Though he looks on the bright side for a lit
tle while (mostly while hes getting back his hair), the 
prospect of dying doesnt help him to grow as a char
acter. As he gets younger, he gets less mature, which is 
something of an accomplishment in such a book.
After breaking the fourth wall (mentioning the fact 
that the readers probably know who the villain is by 
now), Barry finally figures out who is responsible, 
confronts him, and  ending spoiler  Barry lives, 
evil ones die, and they may or may not be coming back 
as ghosts.
The book may be bad, but there are some bright 
spots. Nigels character is the most developed and 
mature, despite being an 11-year-old. Though he suf
fers from some of the maladies common to all the 
characters, such as murderous tendencies (helping to 
loll every player on the Silverfish Quiddit team and 
killing Byron by putting earwigs in his head that eat 
his brain), he is capable of shame, and acts his age.
He also plays Accountants and Attorneys  the fan
tasy kids version of Dungeons and Dragons.
Gerbers vision of students weaned on Trotter sto
ries coming to Hogwash and imagining themselves to 
be Barry, Ermine, or Lon hits the mark as well. 
Searching the Internet for fan fictions proves that this 
isnt uncommon.
Unfortunately, flashes of humor and insight like this 
are rare. More often, its jokes are about combing 
pubic hair, morning-after spells, and vibrating books 
used for sexual pleasure. Keep your 6.99, and stay 
far away from Barry Trotter and the Unnecessary 
Sequel.
Nmdat fObmahRahJ T,Gw vmgmpah
Drowned Out
ascYicnYtjF ecrLlgc tL pF oCem toLcgbtgYnN
The runner-up for the Audience Award for Best 
Documentary at the San Francisco International Film 
Festival (whew!), Drowned Out shares the heart
warming story of the people of Jalsindhi, India. 
They're faced with a heart-warming dilemma: their 
city is about to be destroyed by a rising river. Follow 
their series of protests and hunger strikes as they 
fight the construction of a large dam. Its like 
Gandhi, but more heart-warming.
That Obscure Object of Desire
aGulgnYtjF pFP,F tiY PBN
To quote IMDb user Beachwood: One of the Most 
Erotic films ever ... This film in the truest sense is a 
hot Catholic school girl. A 1977 film by Luis 
Buuel, its the classic story of a French guy who has 
the hots for a girl who he cant have. In fact, the guy 
is so hot for her that he doesnt even realize that shes 
being played alternately by two different actresses. 
He eventually pours a bucket of water out of a train 
window onto her. Yeah, whatever.
HULK
(Friday, 730,10, and 12:30)
This movie tells the tragic story of a guy whose failed 
science experiment caused him to suddenly become 
computer animated and horribly unrealistic. As a 
consolation, the movie co-stars Jennifer Connelly and 
her incredible hulks, if you know what I mean. Former 
TV Hulk Lou Ferrigno's appearance as a security 
guard is a nice bonus.
Terminator 3
aktLlgYtjF pFP,F tiY PBN
An upgraded version of the T-800, the T-850, is sent 
back from the future to protect the citizens of 
California from a new threat  the T-X. This terminatrix, also known as Gray Davis, was sent back by the 
machines to ensure the economic failure of 
California. Oh, wait. That was Arnold 
Schwarzeneggers other major success of 2003.
The Last Unicorn
akliYtjF IOA,FP,F tiY PBOA,N
Also known as "Das letzte einhorn" in Germany, its 
the kid-friendly animated fantasy story of a brave uni
corn and a magician fighting against the forces of evil 
who want to destroy all unicorns. Among the support
ing characters: Schmendrick the Magician, Molly 
Grue, and the evil King Haggard.
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.7

---------------------------------------------------

a
Death Cab, the Mates of State
A cool, calm, and collected band gets teenage fans all hot and bothered
The Bellingham, Washington band Death Cab For 
Cutie played Club Laga for the first time last Tuesday. 
The played songs off their latest album release 
Transatlanticism with Barsuk Records, also the label of 
Nada Surf and The Long Winters, and songs from their 
previously released albums, like Company Calls off 
of We Have the Facts and Were Voting Yes.
The opening act, Mates of State, were a pleasant sur
prise. Married duo Kori Gardner and Jason Hammel 
started performing in 1997.
They looked lonely up there, one on the keyboard, 
the other on drums, but once they started they really 
managed to fill the space with their energy and pure 
joy. The Mates are hard to categorize: they have catchy 
melodies, but to label them as pop would be a copout.
Constantly dueling and switching, they sang to each 
other and for each other, almost making the crowd feel 
like peeping toms prying into their private life. The 
two of them really sing with all they have.
Their lyrics are playful and sweet, but also meaning
ful. [Often] we'll be singing about the same thing and 
not realize it till later. Lyrics will relate to conversa
tions we had before, said Gardner in an interview
with San Fransisco Weekly.
Death Cab for Cutie took their name from the title of 
a song released by The Bonzo Dog Band in the 1960s. 
Death Cab has been compared to indie rock icons like 
Elliott Smith, Built to Spill, and Superchunk, but what 
sets them apart is Gibbard: his heartbreaking lyrics 
and hear-it-to-believe-it voice will surprise newcomers 
and connoisseurs alike.
Compared to the overly perfected songs on the 
album, the band had a little more energy on stage. But 
Death Cab is no jam band  fans come for their wellcrafted songs, deeply-felt lyrics, and Schorr's heavy 
drum lines.
Though the crowd was grooving, with plenty of head 
bobbing and moving to the music, most didn't dance. 
Death Cab had encouraged the crowd to dance for 
their openers Mates of State by promising a free CD to 
whoever danced the most, but no one seemed to take 
the bait.
Nonetheless, lead singer and guitarist Benjamin 
Gibbard owned the crowd, backed up by Christopher 
Walla on guitar, Nicholas Harmer on bass, and Michael 
Schorr on drums.
Their stage presence was unassuming, but fans got 
caught up in the moment; crowd members, some 
exceptionally young, kept screaming EMO! or the 
name of the song they wanted to hear. Death Cab was 
friendly, talking to the crowd between songs, and mak
ing fun of each other, especially when Gibbard broke 
his guitar accidentally.
All members have played in and worked with sever
al other bands. Gibbard played bass in The 
Revolutionary Hydra and Pedro the Lion, and also 
drums for Kind of Like Spitting and The Postal Service. 
Walla has appeared with The Prom, Nick Harmer plays 
bass for Juno, and Mike Schorr drummed for Tracker.
Walla has helped to produce various other albums 
on the side, which explains the band's sometimes over
produced sound. Even live, the band seemed reluctant 
to take musical risks.
Transatlanticism, released October 7 by Sonic Boom 
Recordings, will be supplemented with a Super Audio 
hybrid version, available later this month, and a double-LP vinyl version.
Lmwadm EOnnOtJ NOge,h VRmIIbheRah
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul
53.2 cu. ft. 
of cargo space
Up to 130 lbs./ft. 
torque, 180 horsepower
30 MPG City 
35 MPG Highway*
You re lord and master of quite possibly the most versatile 
automobile on the planet. Matrix is an entirely new breed of 
vehicle-cutting edge styling, standard air conditioning, and up 
to 180 horsepower with available 6-speed. Matrix is designed 
to be whatever you want, including affordable.
visit www.buyatoyota.com for details.
* Based on EPA estimates for 2003 5-speed manual.
VAvailable with 4-wheel 
anti-lock brake system
i

---------------------------------------------------

taa
Trapt breaks free
Once rejected for their originality, the quartet finds favor with a label
It has been an uphill battle for modern alt-rock 
group Trapt. Now, as the suburban California-born 
rockers approach the top of that hill, they are coming 
to the A.J. Palumbo Center downtown to perform an 
opening set for Nickelback tomorrow. Their wildly 
successful self-titled album, released early this year, 
has earned Trapt a Radio Music Award nomination for 
their chart-topping hit Headstrong. Their latest sin
gle, Still Frame, has quickly ascended to third on 
Billboards modern rock list, solidifying Trapts repu
tation as a band on the rise.
People unfamiliar with the album TRAPT may be 
discouraged by the overwhelming popularity of 
Headstrong. But lesser-known songs like Made of 
Glass and Echo vary tempo and style, pairing mel
low background vocals with explosive guitar riffs. 
Still Frame, their second single, is a catchy, fastmoving take on frustration and the need for change. 
Trapt defies being pinned down to one genre. At 
times, their brooding and raging is reminiscent of 
early Metallica and Korn. The Game combines gui
tars with computer-generated music and sounds like 
Linkin Park. Stories, a slower, reflective acoustic 
track, shows Trapts range, and almost has an emo 
quality.
The bands versatility may help it rise from the ashes 
of recording industry rejection: twice the quartet was 
signed by major record labels  one of them was 
Immortal Records (of Korn and Incubus fame)  but 
promising contracts fell through due to struggles for 
creative control. In an interview with Revolver 
Magazine earlier this year, front-man Chris Brown 
reflected on the reasons for their split.
The label [Immortal] said we didnt sound enough 
like Incubus, he said.
The groups talent was matched with dedication 
and persistence since their humble garage band 
beginnings in 1997. Trapt produced and sold three 
independent albums and numerous demos, gaining a 
strong local fan base while struggling to stay together 
through college. The band members would all ulti
mately leave school to pursue music, before attracting 
the recording industrys attention.
When both record deals fell through, however, the 
band was struck a near-fatal blow as their original 
drummer left. Trapt soon found current drummer 
Aaron Monty Montgomery, and was finally signed 
by Warner Brothers Records, their current label, in
late 2001. TRAPT,. . rr Courtesy of Warner Bros. Recordstheir first professionally-produced
album, was released in 2002. Today, Trapt is reaping 
the benefits of their albums success with an interna
tional tour. Opening for a major headlining band is 
nothing new for Trapt. As high school juniors, Trapt 
performed an opening set for Papa Roach and a few 
years later would earn a similar gig for Disturbed. 
Despite being compared to other recent hard rock 
bands like KoRn, Soundgarden, and Chevelle, Chris 
Ormandy surprisingly prefers Trapt be associated 
with Dave Matthews.
He built a fan base grass-roots style, the guitarist 
told Rolling Stone in the July 2003 issue. Thats some
thing were starting to do. Though their music 
almost bears no resemblance to that of Matthews, the 
Trapt album is a decent offering that some fans might 
prefer.
Trapts show is Tuesday, November 4, at 7:30 pm.
Wmg TaGG,tJ VRmIIbheRah
Same Strokes
The Strokes release another short, excellent album
The Strokes are at their best when their music flows 
fastest. When the drums can barely keep pace with the 
guitar, and when Julian Casablancass voice seems 
breathless, speakers pulse with the sound that is 
uniquely The Strokes. Their latest album confirms 
that Is This It was no fluke.
Like their first album, the latest has that other char
acteristic of good Strokes: the music slows to a crawl 
just long enough for the notes to pluck at the listeners 
heartstrings. With speed, The Strokes embody human 
emotion, and the grace of their slow songs tugs emo
tions from their fans.
Their new album, Room on Fire, refreshingly 
adheres to the strengths that made Is This It a plat
inum success. Some of the songs will fall roughly on 
the ears: not that good Strokes crunchy sound, but a 
confused sound somewhere between the Strokes 
speed and their grace. This divergence is the no mans 
land for the Strokes, where the tune band is caught 
jamming along like Phish. Sometimes, Room on Fire 
trips over a song that tarries too long in our ears or 
one that has hollow lyrics repeated as quickly as Nick 
Valensis fingers twitch over the frets in one of his 
strong solos.
The opening track, What Ever Happened?,fore
shadows an album constructed by a band with plenty 
of steam. While the drums clutter the song a bit, 
Casablancas pulls the lyrics from way down deep, say
ing I wanted to be forgotten/And I dont wanna be 
reminded in a clever juxtaposition of the aspects of
memory from a broken relationship. It would not be a 
good song done any faster, but its slow enough that 
its not The Strokes we really want. Consumers must 
wait another track for a masterpiece.
Reptilia courses with frenetic energy, portraying 
in song the feeling of a mind caught between a hun
dred important thoughts. It resembles Plowed by 
Sponge in as many ways as it differs; it is filled with 
sharp crescendos, with drags that gain momentum 
until another-head-shaking, foot-tapping swell, but 
its carried by Casablancass crunchy voice and an 
interesting guitar twang.
And while the rest of the album will never beat 
Reptilia, others get close and even walk the edge of 
goodness. Track four, 12:51, is short at just over two 
and a half minutes, but no one ever complained when 
The Beatles put out albums full of shorties. A catchy 
guitar riff dominates the song at points as the vocals 
drift in and out. Every beat of the song seems meas
ured, and we can imagine the band tending intently to 
their parts.
You Talk too Much, has poignant lyrics and the 
speed that make The Strokes seem comfortable. The 
song, track five, is about the end of love, but Give me 
some time / I just need a little time, might be what a 
fan wants to hear as a project draws to a close just 
before deadline. The fan is happy to see the project 
done, but desiring just a few more choruses to add 
those finishing touches.
Those are the highlights, but the rest of the album is 
hardly a skipper. The songs still have a lot of energy, 
and with the album clocking in like its predecessor 
with just 11 songs, Strokes fans will have to treasure 
each of the 33 minutes of music compiled until they 
get another offering. But until then, this album should 
be sufficient to hush the critics who called The Strokes 
over-hyped.
fgnhab N,/gt,gJ cneR,hygT/eaI
69noef vrssump gea40Su9r0 der0fieo
gi90rm trhrn9rm:rhdrn lueoff0
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

Molding the future of Pittsburgh
Manchester-Bidwell Corporation CEO Bill Strickland runs a nonprofit that actually makes money
We have built a sacred place, wrote founder Bill 
Strickland of his school, the Manchester Craftsmens 
Guild, in a company document called People 
Philosophy. There are no cameras in the building. 
There is no anti-theft system in the building.... we 
never have lost anything. Theres been no graffiti. No 
police calls. No racial incidents. Not one drug or alco
hol incident.
Strickland will speak at 5 pm today in McConomy 
Auditorium on the history and philosophy of the 
school. The track record of the Guild is indeed impec
cable: since its humble beginnings in ,1968 in a North 
Side rowhouse, it has grown to encompass a thriving 
exhibition space for visual art, a world-class recording 
studio, and a steady flow of lecturing artists from all 
over the world.
Its students hail from all the high schools in the 
Pittsburgh public school system. Most come after 
school to use the renowned visual art and music facili
ties. Though theyre regular high schoolers with the 
usual screaming hormones and mile-high chips on 
their shoulders, the students here are treated like 
artists and connoisseurs.
When we built this fancy Frank Lloyd Wrightinspired building.... I put a $3000 quilt up on the 
wall, wrote Strickland. It was the first thing I did 
when we moved in. The staff said, What are you doing 
that for? Theyre going to mark it up or theyre going to 
steal it. I said, Leave it up there, because I want to 
know where the line is. If they steal it, then we know 
we cant go that far. But I want to know. Its worth the 
quilt. The quilt stayed up there three months, and 
then it stayed up there six months. I said, Put another 
quilt up on the wall. It stayed up there six months. And
I said, Lets keep going. In the space of three years, we 
put $150,000 worth of artwork on the wall.
Strickland knows from personal experience that art 
can change students lives, especially when combined 
with a teachers demonstrations of trust and respect. 
As a blas 16-year-old in Manchester, on Pittsburghs 
North Side, Strickland bore little resemblance to the 
man who would win a MacArthur genius award 33 
years later.
He had no idea what he wanted to do when he grew 
up, and had little interest in the education he was get
ting at David B. Oliver High School. Like many of his 
friends, Strickland was apathetic, listless, and con
fused. He wandered the school halls, looking for some
thing interesting, something that felt meaningful. He 
may not have known it then, but he was looking for a 
mentor.
One morning, he peeked into a ceramics classroom, 
and saw Frank Ross working at a potters wheel, mold
ing something in his hands. The man stopped what he 
was doing and let Strickland give the clay a try. As he 
touched the clay, and heard the jazz music playing in 
the studio, Strickland felt a flicker of interest, and 
began to feel admiration for Ross, he said.
You feel good because youve got a reason to get up 
in the morning, said Strickland. My grades in school 
started to get better because I had an interest in study
ing. He got me excited about clay, he brought in jazz 
albums, he brought in books about architecture, so I 
got excited about all those things. Those elements are 
very much in our building today.... we know that by 
giving them quality things, were giving them a quality 
experience. *
In the days and weeks that followed, Strickland 
spent more and more time with Ross in school, and 
sometimes followed him home for dinner. Ross shared 
his collection of jazz records, his knowledge of ceram
ics, and the love of art and beauty that Strickland car
ries with him to this day.
He was very influential, said Strickland. He prob
ably saved my life.
Ross guided Strickland to college at the University of 
Pittsburgh, where, as a first-year, he started working 
on plans for a gathering place where kids from the 
North Side could come to be tutored in ceramics. In 
1968, with the help of classmate Jesse Fife, now chief 
operating officer of Stricklands nonprofit organiza
tion, the Manchester-Bidwell Corporation, Strickland 
held art classes and exhibited student work in a row 
house on Buena Vista Street.
We got a rowhouse from the Episcopal Diocese, he 
said. It was an old, funky rowhouse, but the local 
church owned it, so they let me take it over. I renovat
ed it, with help from my dad.... it was church support 
at first, in the sixties, then we got some public funding 
from the state arts council, and then eventually the 
National Endowment for the Arts. Then we got some 
foundation funding from places like Heinz and 
Hillman, some of those folks, then corporate support 
too.
In addition to the skills they learn in class, students 
come to . appreciate the value of beauty, just as 
Strickland did from Ross.
Were a resource to public education. Were not a 
school in that sense, but we provide students with 
resources, mainly environment and attitude, that so 
many times are missing in public schools, said 
Strickland. The Guild serves every Pittsburgh public 
high school, said Joanna Papada, vice president of 
operations for the Manchester Craftsmans Guild, and 
six middle schools. Programming includes the
renowned after-school program, site visits during the 
school day, and school-day residencies for teachers.
In every school, 18 to 20 artists consult with teachers 
of both artistic and academic subjects, looking for 
ways to incorporate creativity and aesthetic beauty 
into lessons.
We work to interface the arts into the regular cur
riculum, said Papada. For instance, ceramics is a 
great tool for teaching organic chemistry, because a 
successful ceramicist has to know how to combine var
ious chemicals and materials for glazes.... We do art, 
but we also try to make sure that art is interfaced with 
the curriculum, and more importantiy, the values asso
ciated with art.
Art can help focus kids in the classroom and every
where else, just as it did with Strickland, said Papada.
We really build upon the nature of the arts as aca
demic tools, and as a disciplinary link to academic 
learning, she said. Thats our calling card, and thats 
what weve transformed [the Guild] into in the last 
decade or so.
Those values are present throughout the organiza
tion as well, she said.
Everything we do, from critiquing work to analyz
ing the needs teachers may have, we try to use the lens 
of artistic principles, which are our value system, said 
Papada.
In a variety of formats  classroom, studio, comput
er cluster, and social outing among them  teachers 
earn the title of mentor, providing both academic 
and ideological support.
Coming from teaching in a public school setting, it 
is refreshing to be able to mentor students on a consis
tent basis and to have more opportunities to interact 
with them in non-traditional settings, said Guild 
teacher and mentor Nicole Dezelon. My most memo
rable mentoring experiences have occurred while on 
various outings in non-traditional settings: camping 
trips, workshops, snow-tubing, movies, theater events, 
museum visits, and spring break trips.
A few minutes ago, a student came dancing into my 
office space, with a newly-fired pot in his arms softly 
chanting, Im gonna drop some knowledge on you 
now,  said Josh Green, director of arts and education 
strategies. We then had a conversation about how the 
piece was made, what he thought caused those wild 
cracks and crackles, what accounted for the irides
cence of the glassy green glaze. Somehow I find it hard 
to believe that this is a moment that many teachers in 
urban schools get to enjoy.
1 o
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul

---------------------------------------------------

By design, Guild students interact with working 
artists as much as possible, both in the classroom and 
out; next up is a visit from famed muralist Hugh 
Merrill. About ten national or international artists visit 
each year, said Papada. All visiting artists are required 
to share their story and their expertise with students, 
at workshops that range from lectures to hands-on stu
dio time.
Students also have the opportunity to learn from a 
choice selection of internationally renowned musi
cians, because the Guild also houses a world-class 
recording studio.
The Guilds jazz program came together in 1987, and 
its recording studio hit the ground running. In addi
tion to working with local greats like Joe Negri, the 
studio was beginning to attract both legends like 
Dizzie Gillespie in 1989, Tito Puente in 1991, and the 
Count Basie Orchestra in 1992.
Also that year, the series Jazz at the Manchester 
Craftsmans Guild premiered on National Public Radio, 
a partnership that would last four years. The program 
became a model for other performance series on NPR.
In 1995, the Guild formed a label with its first cor
porate partners: Digital Audio Disk Corporation, Sony 
Electronics, Bayer Corporation, the Pittsburgh 
Foundation, Duquesne University, and Carnegie 
Mellon. They began recording with a combination they 
still use today: new material, respected musicians, and 
meticulous production.
In 1996, the Guilds recording of the Count Basie 
Orchestra with the New York Voices, Live, won a 
GRAMMY Award for Best Large Ensemble.
Since then, the studio has hosted a succession of 
musical luminaries, with repeat visits from many wellknown musicians, has been featured on television 
shows including Oprah, The View, and CBS Sunday 
Morning, and has gained international acclaim as a 
high-profile, specialized label for musically-aware con
sumers who want something slightly out of the ordi
nary.
They receive an artists fee for their services, said 
Renee Govanucci, an associate producer at MCG Jazz. 
But most times with the recording, because we are a 
school, and the artists are coming to do some very spe
cial project.... they donate their services or take a very 
reduced fee, so its more like an honorarium, and then 
they donate the proceeds back to the school. Its been 
a really wonderful working relationship with the 
artists, because most of them want to be able to do 
something for the school, and they understand what 
were doing here.
But for players and vocalists looking for an opportu
nity to steep themselves in obscure and original music 
in a highly sophisticated environment, the Guild can 
provide artistic stimulation as well as personal growth, 
she said; sometimes, artists own pet projects and ideas 
become treasures of the Guilds recording collection.
In some cases, its a way for them to fulfill a dream 
of theirs by producing a particular project that they 
wouldnt otherwise get to do, because we have pro
ducers on staff that help them to see the project 
through to fruition, she said.
Govanucci takes care of visiting artists needs, from 
travel arrangements to business and contract negotia
tions. Sometimes, because of the specialized nature of 
the compositions being recorded, and the unusual 
pairings of the musicians recording them, record com
panies will allow signed musicians to play at the Guild. 
by special arrangement.
A lot of times, these artists are recording a special 
project thats being performed on our subscription 
series, so it all ties together, said Govanucci. Theyre 
part of our live performance series; theyre doing a 
recording; its special, unique, a once-in-a-lifetime 
project, and therefore, if they are signed to a different 
record label, they can receive waivers to do special 
projects that that record label would not consider 
recording or releasing.
Each time an artist visits, the Guild sets up two work
shops for artists to share their expertise with both stu
dents and the rest of the community, she said.
Its geared toward the students, but its open to the 
public, so anyone can come, and a lot of people do, 
said Govanucci.
There is another program called Third Grade Jazz, 
where we take all of the third-graders from the public 
schools, and bring them here, and do about a forty-five 
minute show for them, with people like [guitarist] Joe 
Negri, who plays Handyman Negri on Mr. Rogers 
Neighborhood, she said.
Another program called The Jazz Legacy Project, 
geared toward all ages, imparts lessons of Pittsburghs 
rich jazz history, along with images both visual and 
musical.
Its sort of a performance with narrative, said 
Govanucci. The show has been taken to other states, 
but is primarily performed at schools around the city 
and suburbs.
In addition to its high visibility and strong impact in 
the educational community in Pittsburgh, the Guild is
financially stable, falling under the umbrella of the 
nonprofit Manchester-Bidwell Corporation, which 
centralizes internal financial concerns and human 
resources, said Papada. The key to Stricklands success 
is the fact that every endeavor of the ManchesterBidwell Corporation, large and small  MCG Youth, 
Jazz, and Visual Arts, the Denali Initiative, and others
 produce far more money than they take in from 
donors.
The Bidwell Training Center is a line item in the state 
budget, and Manchester receives a portion of that for 
its youth work, said Papada; another portion of the 
annual operating budget comes from foundations and 
the philanthropic community. But MCG Jazzs music 
sales contribute substantially to the income of the cor
poration.
We are a very balanced nonprofit in terms of what 
is earned and unearned, said Papada. We do rely on 
foundations to some extent, but I think what were try
ing to work towards is sustainability in our opera
tions.
Strickland is a sought-after consultant and manager 
for similar ventures throughout the country.
The corporation also runs a vocational school for 
adults, Bidwell Training Center. In the mid-1980s, 
Strickland was asked to take over the center, and 
received a $250,000 grant from the National 
Endowment for the Arts, as part of a $7.2 million capi
tal campaign to refurbish and enrich the center.
Bidwell offers an associates degree program for 
chemical laboratory technicians and diploma pro
grams for other medical and scientific professions, 
culinary arts, and information sciences, and accepts 
around 200 students each year. Students do not pay, as 
the program is state-funded, but each must demon
strate a serious commitment and be able to attend full
time, during the day.
The idea of the curriculum is job training, job readi
ness, said Ken Huselton, director of student services 
at Bidwell. Its not an a-la-carte kind of thing. You 
have to commit to the entire program. We ask for a 
serious commitment before we will accept a student.
Since Strickland took the reins at Bidwell in 1972, 
the program has become far more effective and satis
fying for its students.
When I took it over, it was in an old warehouse with 
no windows and holes in the floor, said Strickland. I 
took it and made it a respectable training program.
Vaa cWoTfSykLJ .q
pillbox. 3 November 2003.11

---------------------------------------------------

___film.

Blood on the road
A glimpse at an antique drivers education
Before hitting the road, generations of prospective 
drivers were exposed to highway safety films with 
titles like Mechanized Death. Many schools have leg
ends of kids passing out or vomiting during extreme
ly gory drivers ed. movies.
Joseph Morrison, operations manager for the 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Institute, thinks the films 
should be preserved as part of our cultural history. 
From the collections of several local school districts, 
the Pittsburgh Filmmakers Institute has developed 
massive archives of vintage educational films from 
the early 1960s to the late 1980s.
These films cover a number of topics including 
highway safety, science, humanities, and sex educa
tion. Morrison and Filmmakers are still working to 
develop the collection of 16mm films, which already 
number over 4000.
We havent reached the hurdle [of cataloguing], 
said Morrison.
Eventually, the archives will be available for the 
public to browse through in a database in Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Institutes library.
Before the documentary began, Morrison showed 
an additional film from 1981 titled Wild at the Wheel; 
the film concerned reckless driving and ended with 
the death of the bad driver, like any good driving safe
ty film. The tone of the evening was set as the crowd 
chuckled at the vintage 1981 clothing and laughably 
bad acting.
The documentary Hells Highway, which lasted just 
over an hour and a half, told the story of the Highway 
Safety Foundation, producer of a huge portion of the 
driver safety films from the 1960s and 1970s.
The director of the foundation, Jim Wayman, 
believed that the way to create better drivers from 
teens was to scare them.
The films contained accident footage taken from all
over Mansfield, Ohio, by several full-time photogra
phers employed by the foundation. The footage con
tained bloodied corpses, totaled automobiles, and vic
tims moaning in pain. The foundation prided itself in 
keeping the films authentic; one of the first films, 
Signal 30, contained this disclaimer at the start: Most 
of the actors in these movies are bad actors and 
received top billing as tombstones.
The documentary also interviewed present-day psy
choanalysts, who said that the films were probably 
not effective, and may have bordered on psychologi
cal abuse towards the students who viewed them.
Now, viewers can enjoy their camp value.
In retrospect, you really find the movies amusing 
despite their educational intent, said audience mem
ber Luke Krzyzanowski, a first-year general CIT major.
cDmg VOgnberKJ VRmIIbheRah
Vol8l .tl va,tw.88gaN8b
ArtWriting
Architecture
gmw  Film
DesignMedia
DramaPublic I
Music
Vog8 g8 2a,t0at,3b
Creative Careers Seminar
 >
Friday, November 14, 2003 
8:00 am to 12:30 pm 
Carnegie Mellon University 
University Center
Pittsburgh Arts Employment Partnership
$5 if pre-reg iste red by November 7 
$ 10 at the door
Please stop by the Career Center to register.
University Center Lower Level
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.
i

---------------------------------------------------

A passion for pumpkins
The vitamin-rich gourd makes seasonal local cuisine a treat
Frost on the bedroom window, the crisp sound of 
crunching leaves, and the glow of a setting 5 oclock 
sun are all signs that a new season has arrived. And 
while shorter days and lower temperatures may be 
nothing to look forward to, every season has its 
charms. One of the great events of fall is the harvest, 
and for some, that means only one thing: pumpkins!
These bright orange gourds, victims of carving knives 
each Halloween, have more to offer than just a pretty 
face. The pumpkin is the essential ingredient for a 
whole slew of your favorite Fall foods. From sweet 
pies to creamy soups, these beta-carotene-loaded 
babies make for a real meal of comfort. But where can 
a pumpkin lover go?
If the thought of pumpkin pie makes your taste buds 
buzz, thfen check out the smooth alternative to the 
smiley-faced cookie at Eat n Park on Murray Avenue 
in Squirrel Hill. Their pumpkin pie recipe may have 
strayed from what the original colonists used to whip 
up  a decapitated pumpkin, gutted and then filled 
with milk, spices, and honey, before being baked in 
hot ashes  but the price is just right. Plus, each slice 
comes with a soft dollop of Cool Whip on top. A slight 
variation from the traditional pumpkin pie is the lus
cious pumpkin swirl cheesecake found at Church 
Brew Works on Liberty Avenue in Lawrenceville. This 
little pumpkin-shaped delight is chocolate-drizzled 
and garnished with dried cranberries.
Anne McEwan, a senior biology and psychology 
double major, has already sampled the pie twice this 
month.
Its addictive, she said. I think Im actually start
ing to feel like a swirly pumpkin.
For another sweet touch of pumpkin, try their 
pumpkin bread pudding  a cold and creamy bowl of 
a traditional dessert, spiced up for the Fall. Church 
Brew Works also features a pumpkin bisque, or for a 
unique experience, try their Pumpkin Pizza. This 
pumpkin-puree-laced pie is topped with sage, apple 
slices, caramelized onions, and asiago cheese. A lactose-intolerant waiter, Terrill Dines, cannot eat the 
pizza himself, but customers like it, he said.
People were excited to try it,-said Dines. We got a 
lot of positive responses.
Another popular dessert thats adapted to the 
pumpkin trend is ice cream, or in Dave and Andys 
case, frozen yogurt. Walk down Forbes and make a 
left on Atwood Street to find Dave and Andys version 
of the cold, orange scoop in a cup or a homemade waf
fle cone. Each cone holds a little chocolate surprise in 
its tip. Dont feel like eating cold pumpkin in public? 
Grab a pint of Ed/s pumpkin ice cream from your 
local grocery store and eat in the intimacy of your
own home while watching a good gray-day movie.
When Im craving pumpkin, it really hits the spot, 
said Shellie Davis, a Pittsburgh resident.
At Entropy, this months featured press-button cof
fee drink is Pumpkin Spice  a sweet and tingly buzz. 
Siu Ping, a senior business major and a regular at 
Entropy, likes the new flavor:
I think they should have it all year round, she said.
The perfect accompaniment to pumpkin coffee can 
be found at your nearby Get Go on the corner of Baum 
Boulevard and Morewood Avenue. This gas station 
store has stocked up on Krispy Kreme Pumpkin Spice 
Donuts. These are a rounder version of your standard 
pumpkin spice cake. Another coffee companion with 
a touch of the good spice is the Pumpkin Walnut 
Scone. These special scones are baked fresh at 
Enricos Biscotti, located on Ellsworth in Oakland or 
on Penn Avenue in the Strip District. This hunk of a 
baked-good is satisfying and very affordable if youre 
looking for a subtle pumpkin pleasure.
Craving pumpkins for breakfast? DeLucas on Penn 
Avenue in the Strip is serving up pumpkin hotcakes. 
Order their Pancake Special and get two fluffy pump
kin cakes, two eggs, and your choice of meat. When 
asked what he thought of the new addition to the 
menu, Dan Bibler,' a 62-year-old native Pittsburgher 
said: Theyre the best darn pancakes, and original 
too!
DeLucas is not the only spot for the pumpkin pan
cake. The Square Caf on Braddock Avenue in Regent 
Square is also featuring a spiced-up hotcake, served 
with walnuts and whip cream. Want your pumpkin in
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
a smaller dose? Go to Breuggers Bagels, located on 
Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill, or on South Aiken in 
Shadyside and get your favorite bagel with their sweet 
pumpkin cream cheese. If you are really a fan, they 
sell the cream cheese in larger containers for when 
youre toasting those bagels at home.
When it comes to cooking with pumpkins, it seems 
the possibilities are endless and delicious. Whether 
its a soft and supple pie, a steamy platter of pancakes, 
or a cool scoop of ice cream, the variety of pumpkin 
foods available throughout Pittsburgh is a testament 
to pumpkins popularity.
An adamant pumpkin fanatic could survive the 
entire season eating nothing but pumpkin-flavored 
fixings. But while pumpkins are a good source of vita
min A and potassium, a pure-pumpkin diet is going a 
bit too far.
Pmr/aA HmGahgerKJ VRmIIbheRah
5412683 34.W8.8E'3 VBN.T
(1 cup cooked, boiled, drained, without salt)
Vitamin E: 3 mg 
Calories: 49 Magnesium: 22 mg
Protein: 2 grams Potassium: 564 mg
Carbohydrate: 12 grams Zinc: 1 mg
Dietary Fiber: 3 grams Selenium: .5 mg
Calcium: 37 mg Vitamin C: 12 mg
Iron: 1.4 mg Niacin: 1 mg
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.1

---------------------------------------------------

___________f o ! nn D
Scary Movie 3
The franchise spawns more watered-down parody
Cheap shots run rampant in David Zuckers Scary 
Movie 3. To have a positive experience in the theatre, 
audience members should go in with fairly low expec
tations. Anna Faris stars as Cindy Campbell, a news 
reporter who gets mixed up in a supernatural mystery. 
She teams up with farmer-turned-homeboy George 
Logan (Simon Rex). That pretty much sums up the 
plot, as Scary Movie 3 degenerates into a series of 
throw-away lines and slapstick humor, parodying 
Signs, The Ring, The Sixth Sense, The Hours, The Matrix 
and, inexplicably, 8 Mile.
In spite of some good material, however, Scary 
Movie 3 fails to really get moving, remaining merely a 
flaccid poke at high-concept horror movies. One of 
the most surprising things about the original Scary 
Movie was how hilarious it was in spite of having a 
dubious trailer. The greatest jokes in the movie were 
so inappropriate that they had to be left out of the 
trailer, and many viewers were pleasantly surprised. 
The opposite is true of Scary Movie 3. If there were a 
Golden Globe category for Best Trailer, Scary Movie 3 
would beat out the competition, hands down.
The first Scary Movie was a slighdy more conceptu
al parody, poking fun at the slasher-horror and teenromance subgenres. Scary Movie 3, on the other hand, 
only takes specific scenes from a handful of unrelated 
scary movies and recycles them, often with only mild
cWoTfSykLJ Ih,d ..
When Bill took over the program at Bidwell, it was 
failing, said Hillary Rose, public relations director of 
the Manchester-Bidwell Corporation. It was training 
people in a lot of the construction trades and busi
nesses like that, where there were not a lot of jobs in 
the area, so it wasnt making sense. What Bill did was, 
he went out into the community and actually asked 
businesses, What do you need in terms of skilled 
workers? In a lot of cases, the corporation will help us 
set up the curriculum and send someone to teach it, so 
that when students graduate from a program, there 
are specific jobs waiting for them.
Though Bidwells applications are more practical, it 
runs on the same sentiment, said Strickland.
The theme is, you can take cofltrol of your life, and 
be productive, whether you go to college because of 
the arts program or go to work, said Strickland.
And though the Guild is arts-related and geared 
toward younger students, its applications are just as 
practical as Bidwells, he said.
The idea is that you take whatever skill set you 
acquire and do something with it, he said. Its all 
practically based. Its not art just to have a nice day; its
laughs. The writers never really go beyond the cheap
est and shallowest spoofs possible. The sequences 
that parody The Ring are tired and predictable. Just 
like in The Ring, the heroine watches a video tape and 
then receives a call telling her that she will die in the 
seven days. The contents of the parodys killer tape 
could have been funny, but play mosdy with slapstick. 
The best part comes when Anna Faris answers the 
phone and argues with the evil voice about whether 
seven days means seven business days or seven regu
lar days.
Look, lady, I do this for a living. Im giving you 
seven days. If I wanted to, I could come over there 
right now and kill the shit out of you, says the voice. 
The funniest lines in the film have little or nothing to 
do with the material being spoofed. In a scene that 
parodies Signs, Charlie Sheen walks up to his dying 
wife, who has been hit by a drunk driver, past the guy 
who pinned his wife to a tree with his truck. The guy 
says, Tom, Im going to need a ride.
Scary Movie 3 was directed by David Zucker, the 
man who directed the hilarious 1980 comedy 
Airplane and the 1988 crime spoof Naked Gun. He has 
developed the creation of low-brow laughs into an art 
form. He can do better than this.
The fault lies mainly with the writing. Although
art to go to college.
The center is now one of several, and will soon be 
one of many.
We want to replicate the idea of it around the coun
try, he said. Weve opened up centers in Cincinatti 
and San Francisco with the same principles, and we 
hope to be able to deepen our relationship with the 
public school system and maybe build a whole bunch 
more of em around the country.
The story of the institution is the story of the man, 
said Papada; now almost legend, the tale of 
Stricklands artistic awakening has come to embody 
the Guilds spirit of transformation.
He walked past the ceramic studio and literally saw 
a different world full of light, because there was a gendeman in there who used the art as a way of measur
ing the quality of life for his students and for himself, 
said Papada. Bill got absorbed in that. If you just con
centrated on his work as a ceramicist, hed probably be 
one of the top-rated artists in the country.
But because Strickland wanted a more public pres
ence, he has mosdy given up ceramics himself, she 
said; now he molds minds, with perhaps the strongest 
hand in the Pittsburgh Public School systems history.
some of the characters were created by Shawn and 
Marlon Wayans, the screenplay was written by Craig 
Mazin and Pat Proft, two men with perhaps some of 
the worst screenwriting credits known to man. Mazin 
wrote the hideous space comedy Rocket Man and Proft 
was responsible for Mr. Magoo, Wrongfully Accused, 
and Bachelor Party. His writing was painful in those 
films, and it is even more painful now.
The talented cast deserves sympathy. Anna Faris is 
very funny and expressive, and does the best she can 
with her lines. Charlie Sheen is funny as farmer Tom 
Logan, but he just does not have enough to do. Scary 
Movie 3 is filled with cameos from talented actors, 
including Queen Latifah, Eddie Griffin, Peter Boyle, 
Macy Gray, Ja Rule, Master P, and George Carlin as 
God. These performers are by and large wasted. Some 
of the scenes are quite funny, but there are not enough 
of them to leave an overall good impression.
If anything, the film should have tried racier mate
rial, rising above its PG-13 rating. At least then it 
could have gotten a few more shock-value laughs. All 
in all, the film fails to come together, and the result is 
ninety minutes of slighdy stale, stream-of-consciousness spoofing.
v,AAw vrft/mgJ VRmIIbheRah
When this all started in 1968, the city was explod
ing in riots, said Papada. Bill calmly sat down and 
focused his work on the students. With the world 
going insane around them, the real sanity was the art 
being made in that brownstone, in that row house.
As for the continuation of Stricklands work in 
Pittsburgh, its self-renewal has already become as 
cyclical as the spinning of a potters wheel.
The word gets out, and people want to work for 
you, said Strickland. You dont have to go looking for 
them. They show up.
Right now, I have seven staff that were students of 
the program and went on to college, said Papada. 
Some even went on to graduate school. But they all 
decided to come back and teach. Theyve closed the 
legacy circle. Thats Bills legacy... as Bill always says, 
this is not art to have a nice day. This is art to change 
your perspective. This is an attitude adjustment. If you 
can make a beautiful vase, you can create a sense of 
beauty in yourself. You can go ahead and see your life 
to its full potential.
TaAmgea H,AmgerKJ HeAAC,M cneR,h
14WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
ARTS & EVENTS.
School of Drama Final Fridays Cabaret Series 
Presents No Ones Gonna Harm You: The 
Songs of Stephen Sondheim" Friday, October 
31st at 11pm. Chosky Theatre. Tickets avail
able day of show at noon, School of Drama Box 
Office. 412.268.2407.
OPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com  The hottest new site 
offering an eclectic array of handmade gift 
items for you, your home, and your pampered 
pets! New items added constantly. Right now, 
we have beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual 
Halloween home decor items, summer purse 
clearance sale, and unique back-to-school 
purses.
Vending Route. 25 high traffic locations.
18,000.00 yearly income. Hurry, wont last. 
Cost $3500. 1.800.568.1392. www.vendingthatworks.com.
Make $$$ taking Online Surveys 
Earn $10-$125 for Surveys Earn $25-$250 for 
Focus Groups Visi
www.cash4students.com/patar.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign 
up today to participate in this fun, easy, and 
quick word puzzle study. For times and infor
mation e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with 
Puzzle Study in the subject line.
Local test prep. Company seeking part time 
physics teachers. Excellent communications 
skills a must. Grad students preferred but lim
ited to. Call 412.687.4880 or e-mail info.pittsburgh@review.com.
Need an extra $36,000 a year? Vending route 
for sale. Cost $5000.00.
Help find missing children.
1.800.853.7155 or www.webdesignl99.com
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All 
hair types. Call 412.488.8951 ext. 201 for 
details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts 
into words for a Mystery Novel. $50.00 per 
chapter. 12 chapters: $600.00  15 chapters: 
$750.00. Please send resume to: 
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to:
412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter Trent. 
Qualifications: Creativity and the enjoyment of 
writing.
**Work From Home*** Int'l Company 
Expanding. Earn up to $500-$1500 PT/mo. 
$2000-$7500 FT/mo. Will train. Call:
1.888.304.0872. 
www.NewLifeWeaith.com
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED 
Peer Educators needed to present sexuality 
education programs to teens. Good public 
speaking skills desired. No experience neces
sary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. 
Must be high school graduate. Great for college 
students. Possible internship opportunities. 
For more information, please call
412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for Damion or 
send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com
MEDICAL.
Amazing Metabolism Breakthrough!
Lose 10 - 200 LBS!! Easy, quick, fast dramat
ic results. All Natural. Dr. Recommended. $$$ 
Guarantee.
1.888.738.2802 
www. NewLifeTrend. net
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression 
and Anxiety Men and women, ages 18 to 60, 
who are suffering with symptoms of both 
depression and anxiety are needed to partici
pate in a talk therapy research study. For more 
details or to see if you qualify, please call the 
Depression Prevention Program at
412.624.4444. There are no costs associated 
with the study. All calls are confidential.
Completely healthy mates ages 18-40 without 
medical problems and not taking any medica
tions needed for research study in the division 
of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care 
Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. Must have no history of dia
betes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study 
will involve two 48-hour sessions in the sleep 
laboratory during the week. Total participation 
time will be approximately 4 weeks. No cost to 
participants; financial compensation provided. 
Call Heidi at 412.692.2880.
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone you love? 
Youre not alone. According to the National 
Institute of Mental Health, during any one-year 
period, 18.8 million Americans  one in 10 
adults  experience depression. Andrea 
Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research study at 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to 
examine the effectiveness of an ant depressant 
medication for major depression. You or a loved 
one may qualify if you:
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* ate either antidepressant-free or taking an 
antidepressant that is not helping.
As part of the study, participants will undergo 
psychological assessments and receive medica
tion. The medication to be used in this study 
has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration for major depression. There is 
no cost for participating in the study. For more 
information, please call Traci Salopek today at
412.624.4444. All calls are confidential.
TRAVEL.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life
Vacations! America's Best
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, Cancn,
Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Sell rips, Earn
Cash, Travel Free! Hurry - Book Now!
1.800.733.6347
www.beachlifevacations.com
# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancn, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. 
Campus Reps Wanted! Free Meals & Parties! 
800-234-7007 
endlesssummertours. com
USA SPRING BREAK.com 
Cancn, Bahamas, Acapulco, Jamaica & More. 
Don't be fooled! Go with Quality & Experience!
28 years in business. Largest Student Tour 
Operator. (Division of USA Student Travel). Call 
Toll Free: 1.877.460.6077. Now also hiring 
Campus Reps. Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 
Travelers & $$
Sell Spring Break Trips! Guaranteed Best Buy
1 free trip for every 10 paid OR ca$h starting 
with first booking. Exxtreme Party Packages! 
Protection of American Express Worldwide 
EXXTREME VACATIONS, INC 1.800.336.2260 
www. xxvacacions. com
Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 Travelers & $$ Vending 
Route. 25 high traffic locations. 18,000.00 
yearly income. Hurry, wont last. Cost $3500.
1.800.568.1392 www.vendingthatworks.com
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip 
free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 1.800.838.8202
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET 
PAID! WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski & 
Beach Trips on sale now! 
www.Sunchase.com or call 1.800.SUNCHASE 
today!
Spring Break 04 with Student City.com and 
Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free 
trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. 
Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS 
and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve 
online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acura Integra 00 GS, 26k miles, red, 2dr 
coupe, 5spd, leather, CD, AC, sunroof. 
Excellent condition $13,200. Call 724-612- 
4403.
OHARA TOWNSHIP
Good first house in the Fox Chapel School 
District. Brick Cape Cod with 3 BR, 2 Baths. 
$160,000. For info send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse 
Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet.
$850.00 + Gas
412.621.3028.
& Electric. Call
Luxury 2 bedroom one block to CMU. Beautiful, 
modern & spacious with vaulted ceilings. Fully 
equipped kitchen. Fenced yard with patio. 
Laundry, A/C. $1200/month includes gas, elec
& digital cable. Robb Real Estate Co.
412.682.7622 or rrec@telerama.com
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female 
Roommate for Second Bedroom and Private 
Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 N. Craig 
Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles 
from CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. 
Shared Utilities, CABLE and INTERNET. 
(WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for 
$500/month. Call; 520-370-1787. E-mail: 
tcpaz@hotmail. com
Squirrel Hill, 2nd floor duplex, 2 large rooms 
plus kitchen and bath, ideal for 2 students, 1 
block from bus line to university, $795, 
INCLUDES GAS AND ELECTRIC. Cali
412.521.1308.
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The 
Tartan's discretion 
MAIL TO: 
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in 
cash, check, or credit card 
before first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.....$15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before 
publication
GeAAC,Ml U L,DadCah F--Ul1

---------------------------------------------------

apfh rihtc vdghdts wc kigl Cnnis eny Pinysdc ,'
ACROSS
3 Youve got one on the boy next door
5 You only got that A because you slept with him
8 You collect these cards
10 They werent that big last week!
12 Yours have never seen the Dawn of day
14 Halloween isnt the only time you go to Crimes
of_
15 Yours is from a bottle
16 What you did at work, to ensure an early
retirement
18 You pop them like theyre M&Ms
22 This stuff you shoot up with isn't from a
romance novel
24 You sleep with one on
25 You snuck down into these tunnels
26 Yours is still full of tissues
27 You used to have one ... and you kinda want it
back
28 You pick it
29 Because you dont shower often, youve got 
one of these
30 You did this to someones car in the garage
DOWN
1 You were raised in the city, but your heart is 
here
2 Your morning ritual involves watching this net
work
3 Sniff, sniff
4 Little Johnny was playing ball, 
before you did this
5 Yours have feet
6 You smelt, and dealt, it
7 It picks you up faster than coffee
9 Youre from Illinois; stop using that
British_
11 Youve got a third one!
13 I know what you did last__
17 Your disorder of choice
19 You met your girlfriend on the_
20 You were the first to buy a HokeyPokey one
21 Since you stopped wearing diapers, 
you always have one of these
23 Your mom is also your grandmother
OID_i
O
LO
l/i
N/
LU
LU
Ii/
<
J
2J_JL
xo_6u_MByJL
A_PA_L_J_BoE
IcCl_L_INJJS
TL_0JL"&oBLN
12
_s_E_
;
WA_LERJL
'_E_ETH_A_JL66s
_i__5_AVEN
9
_FAJbLe
15_s_MoJo_6_
g|F_c_
22
T
23
_H_RILLE
w_z_A_VjOI
L_AZoRL_p_
DEoE2sH0
27
JLT
JL.
29
MuftPHyo_,'L
rc-A-_H_JLjjA
R_V_3uNCEJL^A_PPLEX
InO0_E_o_C_K
3CELTSN0CKS
HOROSCOPES.
BY DINAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): To celebrate your recovery from a long, 
tough bout of mono, you will sign up for a city marathon. Just before 
beginning your practice schedule, you will suddenly remember your lifethreatening asthma and resume the relaxed, sedentary lifestyle your 
friends love you for.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): You will find comfort in convincing your
self that you are just too hip for the wanna-be hip kids to realize your true 
hipness.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Despite the apparent parallels between your 
life and the lives of the movie characters you relate to, you will eventual
ly realize that that song in your head is not what has kept you alive all 
these years.
PTCANCER (June 22 - July 22): You may suffer for 
your bad decisions, but just think how many kids will 
learn from your after-school special.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): Chalking murals on your 
bedroom walls to get around your buildings anti
wall-painting ordinance will go wonderfully until you 
try to hose them off.Bridget Lewis/Art Staff
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): Beware. A glutton
ous chain coffee store may soon open near your favorite 
local coffee shop. The repercussions could be earth-shat
tering.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Because you lack a 
symbiotic relationship with any other living organism in 
the universe, you will begin to feel unnerved and unap
preciated. This will motivate you to dramatically overemphasize the bond 
you share with your household plants, who give you conditional patience 
and support in exchange for your watering and storytelling before bed
time.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): This weekend, you will hit on 
someone by mentioning your album, knowing full well that 
the computer recording you made of yourself strumming 
away on your cheap guitar in your dorm room doesn't quite 
count.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): Finally 
changing that burnt-out light bulb in your room will dra
matically alleviate the symptoms of your Seasonal Affective 
Disorder and give your skin a stunning bronzed glow.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): After yet anoth
er unproductive chemistry study session, you will finally concede that 
while your stomach may expand with increased eating, your brain will not 
expand with increased lecturing. And even if it did, it would just be use
less brain flub, not the sculpted brain muscle that your unappreciative 
classmates seem to develop in their sleep without anywhere near the 
effort you put in.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): The rubber sole of one of your 
dependable winter boots will break in half as you walk down the street in 
the rain. Your new split-soled shoes will not make you feel like a dancer, 
just wet.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): After a week strenuous enough to 
make Oprah Winfrey exhausted and delirious, you will crawl into bed and 
fall into a deep sleep. You will soon awake to see the light, close your 
blinds, and roll over to sleep another 18 hours or so.
1
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
After Amy finished her harrowing tale, she stared at the ground, 
embarrassed. Physically, she was a hen, but emotionally, Amy was 
still a drake. She didnt know how Rupert would react after hear
ing this most serious confession. She had misled him for so many 
months, the ultimate deception being not that she lied about her 
past, but that she let Rupert fall in love with her while she knew she could never 
reciprocate the feelings. Would he immediately reject her and fly away forever, 
throwing away the friendship that was so long in the making? Would Rupert be 
so crushed by this new turn of events that he be compelled to do something hor
ribly drastic? Amy looked up the one who minutes earlier had been so bursting 
with love for her that he just had to tell her how he felt. The look on his face was 
utterly unreadable, but Amy could only imagine the worst thoughts possible con
cealed behind those glazed-over eyes.
Jokes N Laffs! By Eli!
you
ore srWir>e.:\oc>V^f3.
Everybodies News by Franz Harter
/SUSAN LOOK I'LLGO HOME IN 
i A FEW MINUTES, AFTER I PICK /Sgj 
UP THE MAIL. rz\f r\ ICC i c r il* rs l
HANG ON SUSAN 
felSURE. ANYTHING EL
Saveaa< P eona y<u ver foui esrtd ur<wv HAVE TIMEl^n
O THINK ABQUTIT.SglifiNEED EVERYTHING, I DON'T HAVE TTME^yVHATS THAT? YOU'RE OUTOF AISLE'} _,- sdTnruTk.^BAHTTT ___ FOUR? GOOD,VOu ORDER TAKEOUT J
<>V.
&
C
to
cc
UJ
-Qin
- (jrrk^ Yon'f# oKilU ^ ****** *
l| of
 A fljaHarold and the Other Guy
Cheerio.
by Bob Rost (rrost@andrew.cmu.cdu)
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~rrost/harold
So, we were wonderingx 
exactly what's behind 
that monocle...
J V
Super Cool Kid is permanently dead this time. End of discussion.
y vj v
2X4!by Aaron Kablack
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze
The year of the Dark Horse
According to the Chinese zodiac, 2004 is the Year of 
the Monkey. But in the comic book industry, it looks 
as though 2004 will be the year of Dark Horse 
Comics. With a major motion picture in production, 
solid series, and ambitious new releases, Dark 
Horse Comics is poised with potential.
Dark Horse Comics was founded in 1986 by Mike 
Richardson. Like competing company Image 
Comics, Dark Horse is one of the few independent 
publishers that has managed to stay in business by 
maintaining a creator-friendly reputation. If DC and 
Marvel are the Coke and Pepsi of the comic book 
industry, then Dark Horse is the Jones Soda.
Dark Horses most popular property to date is Mike 
Mignolas Hellboy, a supernatural detective born as 
a demon, but sworn as a protector. The hero has 
been immortalized in numerous mini-series and 
graphic novels.
In April of 2004, Hellboy will make his moving 
image debut in a feature film from Sony Pictures 
and Revolution Studios. Directed by Guillermo del 
Toro (.Mimic, Blade II) and starring Ron Perlman 
(TVs Beauty and the Beast) and Selma Blair (Cruel 
Intentions, The Sweetest Thing), the movie will fol
low the story of the first Hellboy graphic novel, Seed 
of Destruction.
In Seed, Hellboy is born of mystic forces conjured by 
Nazis during WWII. Found by the allied forces, the
American government adopts Hellboy. All grown 
up, Hellboy works for the Bureau for Paranormal 
Research and Defense, hunting down the evil char
acters of world folklore and myths.
Not only is Dark Horse involved in bringing comics 
to the movies  every month, Dark Horse also 
brings movies to comics. The company holds the 
license to produce Stars Wars-based comic books.
The Star Wars films themselves total under 15 
hours; but the expanded universe of Star Wars 
comics holds hundreds of hours of adventures. 
Character spotlights, extended travels, and movie 
adaptations are just a few of the themes which the 
comics operate upon.
Most importantly, however, is the fact that Stars 
Wars fans can indulge in the Force multiple times a 
month for a few dollars per issue.
Aside from their standard line of series, Dark Horse 
is currently involved in launching a new line enti
tled Rocket Comics.
Rocket offers vibrant, edgy interpretations of vari
ous standard comic book premises such as the west
ern, the intergalactic epic, and the monster tale. Yet 
these interpretations are anything but standard.
In Crush, the Dr. Jekyll/Mr. Hyde dynamic is rein
vigorated in the form of an 18-year-old girl. 
Elizabeth Crushs transformation is accented with
flavors of the occult and magic.
In Galactic, urban youth Heath, ensconced in a city 
life of drugs and aggression, is sought out by an 
alien group who determines the value of life on 
planets across the universe. All of a sudden, Heath 
doesnt feel so bad about his Earth life  hes busy 
fighting to stay alive on a hostile planet far away.
The title Lone offers an exciting amalgam of genres 
in its zombie thriller set in an apocalyptic wild west. 
The outlaw known as Lone is hired to save a town 
from extinction by flesh-eating monsters. But 
Lones past is heavy, and so is the danger along 
every step of the way.
From Hellboy graphic novels to Star Wars monthly 
anthologies to issues of the infant Rocket Comics, 
Dark Horse Comics is dousing bookstores and comic 
shops with quality product.
With the release of Hellboy on April 2, 2004, Dark 
Horse may kick it up a notch from popular indie to 
rising giant. Of course, this all will depend on the 
marketing put behind their name and the assump
tion that the quality of the present will continue.
But Dark Horses currently potential for growth is 
high, and it seems as though this potential will be 
recognized.
LerK vmheg,J VRmIIbheRah
Photo Courtesy of tfaw.com Photo Courtesy of tfaw.com
Experience more than just the Empire. Lone fights monsters and faces his own demons.
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 03,SATURDAY 08
Lyle Lovett and His Large Band. Benedum Center. 7:30 pm. For 
ticket prices and for other information, call 412.456.6666.
Night of the Living Mic: Hip Hop Show. Gemmell Multipurpose 
Room, Clarion University Center. 7:30 pm. $2. 814.653.8195. 
www. metaphoricclothing. com.
William E. Strickland, Founder and CEO Manchester Craftsmens 
Guild/Bidwell Training Center  Lecture. McConomy Auditorium, 
University Center. 5 pm.
Open Mind Lecture Series  Outside the Box: The Making of 
a Hip Hop Engineer. Joseph Steele, civil engineer, Hip Hop 
label President/Emcee, Carnegie Mellon Alumnus. Connan 
Room. 5 pm.
Murder Mystery Dinner Theater  Murder By Magic. Spaghetti 
Warehouse Mystery Dinner Theater. 6:45 pm. $27.25 (includes 
dinner, show, tax, and gratuities). 724.348.8110. www.mccafferymysteries. com.
Richard Jenni  Comedian. The Improv. 8 pm. 412.462.5233.
Exiles. Theatre. Directed by Aine Donnelly. 7:30 
pm.Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater. Purnell Center for 
the Arts. Free. 412.268.2407.
Laura Hoptman, curator of Contemporary Art at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. Lecture. McConomy Auditorium. University 
Center. 5 pm. Free. 412.268.2409.
FRIDAY 07.
Richard Jenni  Comedian. The Improv. 8 and 10 pm.
412.462.5233.
Shaolin Warriors. Benedum Center. 7:30 pm. $21, $41, $51. 
412.456.6666.
Rob Weir and Ratdog. Byhan Theater. 7:30 pm. 412.456.6666. 
www.pgharts.org.
Carnegie Mellon Night at the Symphony/ Family Portrait Premiere.
Heinz Hall. 6:45 pm. Tickets are available at the UC Info Desk.
"Exiles. Theatre. Directed by Aine Donnelly. 3:30 pm & 8 
pm. Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater. Purnell Center for 
the Arts. Free. 412.268.2407
Carnegie Mellon Wind Ensemble. Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. 3 pm. 
$5. $4 Seniors. Free for Carnegie Mellon students. 412.268.2383.
Richard Jenni  Comedian. The Improv. 7, 9, and 11 pm.
412.462.5233.
The Musical Stage. Heinz Hall. 11:15 am. For price information, 
call 312.392.4900. .
National Dance Company of Ireland: Rhythm of the Dance. Benedum 
Center. 2:30, 5:30, and 8:30 pm. For ticket price information, call 
412.456.6666.
The Marvel of Glass: Jamey Turner makes music with as many as 60 
brandy snifters. Butler Intermediate High School. 7:30 pm. Adults, 
$7; Children, $4. 424.283.1402. www.butlerarts.org.
Mendelssohn Choir Concert  Mendelssohn at the Opera. Mt.
Lebanon High School. 8 pm. $20, general admission; $10 students.
Cultural Interdependence Discussion. Sandra Gibson, President and 
CEO of the Association of Performing Arts Presenters $5.00. 12:30 
pm. Hamburg Hall Auditorium. 412.268.1452.
SUNDAY 09.
Richard Jenni  Comedian. The Improv. 7 pm. 412.462.5233.
ONGOING
Linda Liao and Ashley Holtgravor. November 7-28. The Frame. 
5200 Forbes Ave. Opening: 7-9 pm. Hours: Friday - Tuesday, 
12-5 pm. Free. 412.268.2081.
UC Fridays. University Center. Every Friday, the UC will feature a 
different performance, service or entertainment. 12 pm.
Buggy Practices and Street Closings. Sweepstakes Committee has 
secured permits from the City of Pittsburgh to use Tech Street, 
Frew Street, and Schenley Drive during a number of weekends this 
fall on the following dates: November 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, and 23. 
Roads close at 6 am and promptly open at 9 am. Because the 
streets need to be clear of cars for these practices, cars that 
remain parked on the designated streets after 5 am on these morn
ings will be towed by the city at the owner's expense. The roads 
and meters will open promptly at 9 am.
UPMC SportsWorks. UPMC SportsWorks Building at Carnegie 
Science Center. Through March 23, 2005. For more info, e-mail 
chapmank@csc. clpgh.org.
Heinz 57. Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center. 
10 am to 5 pm. $6 adult, $4.50 seniors, $3 children 6-18, free 
children under 6 and members. Through December 31, 2005. For 
more info, e-mail hswp@hswp.org.
Points in Time: Building a Life in Western PA 1750-Today. Senator 
John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center. 10 am to 5 pm. $6 
adult, $4.50 seniors, $3 children 6-18, free children under 6 and 
members. Through December 31, 2005. For more info, e-mail 
hswp@hswp.org.
Shantytown  The Ed Salamony Photographs. Photo Antiquities 
Museum of Photographic History. 10 am to 4 pm. $6.50 adults, 
$5 students, Thursdays free. Through December 31. For more info, ema i I donna@photoantiqui ties. org.
Historic Tour of Clayton. Frick Art and Historical Center. General 
admission, $10; seniors, $8; students, $8. Through January 
31, 2004.
PittsburghHipHop.coms Open Mic and Party every Sunday. The
Warehouse (2835 Smallman Street, Strip District). 6 to 10 pm. 
$10, $5 with flyer. Through November 23. For more information, 
e-mail openmic@pittsburghhiphop.com.
Habla Conmigo: Tertulias de Habla Hispana. Tuesdays with 
Veronica, 4 to 6 pm, Skibo Coffeehouse; Wednesdays with 
Alberto, 4 to 6 pm, BH235A; Thursdays with WenShu, 6 to 8 
pm, Porter Hall 226B.
Alpha. UC Chapel. Every Thursday at 7:30 pm.
Roger Barbour Jazz Quartet: Roger Barbour - trumpet, Horace Turner
- keyboard, Raynard Ford - saxophone and flute, John Smith - 
drums. Crawford Grill, 2141 Wylie Avenue. Every Friday from 6 
to 8 pm. 412.471.1565.
VOX 
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF THE OFFICIAL VOICE.
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.
send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
She died 
to death.J
%
fo
\
%
\
Ladies and gen
tlemen, strap on 
jour dildos and 
leaveyour gloves 
at the door... I 
think the 
evening is about 
to begin.
The car 
was an 
orange.
%
Amputation/ 
ifrovo purpose/.
CfCUf,e.Nf
x
nt
ctf >>
 d a  jS
Go away, eh? Im eatin 
twigs.
1
Improv For Humanity. 4:30 pm. The Fence. 
http-.//www. andrew. emu. edu/~ott.
TUESDAY 04.
Nickelback. A.J. Palumbo Center. 7:30 pm. $27.50. 
412.323.1919.
WEDNESDAY 05.
Englebert Humperdink. Benedum Center. 7:30 pm. $37.50. 
$45. 412.456.6666.
Exiles. Theatre. Directed by Aine Donnelly. 7:30 pm. 
Helen Wayne Rauh Studio Theater. Purnell Center for the 
Arts. Free. 412.268.2407.
THURSDAY 06.
WillamR 3 emdhat 2003.

---------------------------------------------------

Jeff Cullers/Photo Editor
About face: Second-year Adriane Schneiders untitled painting, currently displayed on the 3rd 
floor of the College of Fine Arts.
