December 2, 1971, Volume 71/Number 11
We chewed it over awhile and decided 
that we were committed to many people to 
put out an issue, but we didnt have time to 
organize ourselves and produce. So we go 
with what we got, and call it Tartanette.
Manassas and Blugrass in concert...
*poai| M OSL$ 'uiooJUDq oqpis***

---------------------------------------------------

Pittsburgh V.S. New York
Im starting to believe that New Yorkers 
are the nerviest people in the world. All the 
time, I hear them walking around badmouthing Pittsburgh, CMU, Pittsburgh air 
and Skibo food, among other things. They 
say that the Pittsburgh airport is decrepit, 
that Pittsburgh is where the Greaser still 
lives, that there is no night life in Pittsburgh, 
that Pittsburgh stores are understocked or 
behind the times. And all the time, implicit 
in their remarks, is the idea that New York is 
the ultimate be-all in the western world. 
New York is where its happnin daddy. 
OOoh-wee; I come from New York, there
fore Im urbane, sophisticated, cook, and 
very up with the times, a creature of the 70s 
and a city ape. Well alright. New York is 
different from Pittsburgh. But perhaps the 
mental condition that you have, I have too. 
You come from a city that is falling apart at 
*s very roots. You come from a city com
posed not of people, but of faceless millions 
of Blacks, spies, wops, WASPs, bums, freaks 
and just plain folks. New York is a cold, 
heartless, throbbing jungle that is ready to 
crack off from the rest of the country and
fall into the Atlantic. But why dont New 
Yorkers ever mention that? The mental con
dition Im talking about is a loss of memory: 
you remember whats good, but why re
member the unpleasant. Being a real bornand-raised-in-Pittsburgher, I too like to 
think of only whats good about Pittsburgh. 
And admittedly, there isnt much thats 
good. But the deal is that at least Pittsburgh 
has a future, while all New York has is decay. 
Pittsburgh is not New York, and God will
ing, it never will be.
What I intend to do, is go over a few 
points with you, good and bad about both 
cities, and then make by official statement 
that, I hope, will give you a different per
spective about Pittsburgh. I dont want to be 
a Pittsburgh chauvinist, but if I think I have 
to, I will.
You probably saw the Pittsburgh airport 
first, if you flew here. If you have the same 
impression I had when you first saw it, you 
said: Lord, I didnt think we went through 
a time warp. Because the Pittsburgh airport 
looks like a 1940s style concrete fantasy. 
And its true; the airport was built in a time 
when those wierd geometric shapes were in 
vogue for buildings. The Chrysler building in
MORE EXCITING SHORT RIMS
This Weekend Only...A Must...Dont Miss
SUGGESTED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES
December 3at 7-9:30 
December 4at 9-11:30 
December 5at 9-11 30
ADMISSION:*1.50
STUDENTS
Pitt Common Facilities 
Fitzy Ritz Coffeehouse
Pitt Common Facilities
Advanced Sales in 
Pitt Ticket OfficeS.U.
good ole NY has the same thing. Well, so 
what? It works. Planes take off and land. 
People pick up their bags and leave. Youve 
got a nice expressway, if such things can be 
nice, to take you directly to town. I know 
theyre expanding the airport. They want 
the airport to be more. They couldnt just 
run off and build a new airport; the taxCOUNTSr* ** **>
payers cant afford it. But two million cant 
do what 15 million can. One thing I can find 
no excuse for is not running the airport bus 
into Oakland on Saturdays and Sundays.
What the hell kind of business is this? Every
body doesnt want to go into downtown. 
But thats just typical of the small town 
aspects of Pittsburgh, I guess.
Pittsburgh air and water is no worse than 
New York air and water. It might be differ
ent, but its no worse. People say Pittsburgh 
water tastes funny. Well it just tastes differ
ent. And besides that, you can use the water 
around Pittsburgh for recreation. Motorboating up the Allegheny or Monongehela 
isnt really bad. Once you get past the visual 
pollution of J&L, youre cruising past wood
ed hills on a wide, smooth river. In New 
York, you put on your gas mask, fight your 
way through human feces floating three feet 
thick on the surface of the river, dodge the 
freighters, sail for two days, and youve 
made it. Then you can turn around and do it 
in reverse. Wonderful. Pittsburgh air is 
actually better than the national average. 
Sure the steel mills belch every once and a 
while, but the air here is really a lot better 
than it was. Can John Lindsay say that? And 
Id like to put the old second sunset story 
to rest for all time. The red haze over the 
library is not clouds of noxious gases being 
passed into the atmosphere. Huge sheets of
Announcements
Genesis 4, a series of student experimental
films will be shown at the University of 
Pittsburgh common facilities building on 
Friday evening, December 3 at 7 and 9:30 
PM and Sunday evening, December 5 at 9 
and 11:30 PM. Admission is $1.50. The 
series should be of spcial interest to anyone 
who attended last year's CMU student film 
festival because "Number One, a film by a 
sometime CM U student has been selected to 
be shown in this nationally syndicated 
program.
Information concerning summer study
abroad and summer employment abroad is 
available in Room 207, Warner Hall.
Attention! Frats and Sororities, and all CMU
students: Help collect can food, good cloth
ing, and toys for needy people in Pittsburgh 
area. Let's spread our love around this holi
day season, join forces with everyone at 
Youth City in making this Christmas a mean
ingful one for all concerned. For more info 
call Youth City at 281-4132, ask for 
Vincenne. Any help will be greatly appreci
ated. Our office is at 304 Ross St. Have a 
problem? Call us.
The Central Blood Bank of Pittsburgh, 201
De Soto Street, off 5th Avenue in Oakland, 
needs donors. To make an appointment, call 
391-8290. While donations are always wel
come, it is possible to receive payment for 
giving blood. It's important, so give them a 
call and find out what you can do to help.
Marx Brothers-Dec. 10 Duck Soup, Dec. 17
Coconuts. At the Coop. 7, 9, & 11 PM. 
$1.00.
The Activities Board will be giving away
FREE Randy Newman and Bonnie Raitt 
records. For full details, come to the Skibo 
Information Desk.
The Carnegie Technical will be celebrating
its 50th anniversary next semester. A 50-60 
page anniversary issue is being planned for 
distribution in February. It will include 
graphic art, technical critical articles, poetry 
and fiction. Submissions or questions should 
be sent to Carnegie Technical, Box 16, Cam
pus Mail. If possible, material should be sub
mitted before the Christmas vacation. Final 
deadline for submissions is the end of the 
first week of classes.
COLLEGE
STUDENTS
Part-time and Christmas 
Employment Available.
Must be free two weekdays minimum 
from 4 p.m. until 10 p.m. and all day 
Saturday.
PLEASANT PUBLIC CONTACT WORK
For interview call
MR. R. COSTEN
TUESDAYS and THURSDAYS 5-7:30 p.m. 
SATURDAY 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
281-4321

---------------------------------------------------

New York vs. Pittsburgh
red-hot steel are rolled outdoors in the mill, 
and the glow is just that, a glow. I know 
because I worked in the steel mill last sum
mer. Theres more noxious gas passed into 
the air in the dressing room in the gym. The 
only way youre going to get rid of the acrid 
air is to get rid of cars, but thats another 
issue entirely.
And then we get to the question of the
school. To all outside appearance, CMU is a 
pretty bland institution. But if you mention 
the name Carnegie-Mellon on a job applica
tion or something, eyebrows raise and clos
er attention is paid. Did you know that 
Pres. Stever came from MIT to CMU? And 
then old Dick Nixon (youll always have a 
friend in the White House) nominates him 
for a post in his administration. Mellon Insti
tute; think of all the fantastic little minds 
that must be tucked away in that place. 
CMU has a Metallurgy department, and the 
US Bureau of Mines is right down the street. 
Prof. Arnold Bank is one of the foremost 
calligraphers in the world. Lee Goldman was 
once a big shot with a glass company. Lud
wig Schaeffer, in the History department, 
planned the history education program for 
the STATE! Sergio deBenedetti is one of the 
foremost physicists in the world. And 
theyre all here. Theyre all at your disposal. 
All you have to do is tap your resources.
I know youve heard it before, but Pitts
burgh is one of the major corporate head
quarter cities in the country. Youve heard 
of all the companies before so I wont go 
into that. But think of the tremendous capi
tal thats floating around here. New York is 
nothing but small businesses and investment 
companies really. All of the major US corpo
rations have offices there, but thats because 
there are so many consumers around New 
York.
Admittedly, Pittsburgh is not the haven 
of culture that New York is. But you dont 
expect 600,000 people to set the styles and 
demand the level of entertainment that 
15,000,000 people do, especially when they 
are reall nothing more than working class 
blacks and mill honks. There are very few 
swingers in Pittsburgh. And the swingers 
that are here are over twenty-one. The few 
rock nightclubs that are here generally 
wont^ serve you or even let you in without 
an LCB card. So I guess that all of you 18 
year old freshman who could do the hoochie 
coo in NY are pretty let down. You can 
always go to the Holiday because they rarely 
card, but you run the risk of being ignored, if 
youre a girl, or pinched, if youre a boy. 
Some of you may even enjoy being pinched. 
Concerts in Pittsburgh are real exceptions 
and are there subject to a higher level of 
interest by the audience. By this 1 mean that 
the audience is going to have a good time if 
they have to riot to do it. This is especially 
true of rock concerts. It seems like the 
young freako type of person is saying to 
himself: This is my big chance to show how 
heavy I am so I better really do it here, now, 
cause I wont get another chance for two 
months. This has led to brassieres being 
thrown at Robert Plant, getting tennis elbow 
from slamming your fist into the air at lan 
Anderson, spraining ankles from falling off
of chairs you were standing on to look at 
Phil Lesh, screaming get it on, MOTHER
FUCKER!! at Duane Allman, and setting 
me on fire with your god damn cigarette 
when you leapt up to scream BOOGIE!! 
because you wanted to hear boogie. Con
certs are a real hazard these days because 
everyone is trying to impress everyone else. I 
hope someone disobeys the no smoking 
ordinance and sets his bells, boots, and 
jeans on fire. Serves you right cause you 
aint nothin but a jiveass dude. This just 
shows how much of a hick town Pgh. is 
because everyone knows the stories about 
the small farmers and cowboys who would 
do anything to be entertained because the 
circus only came around once a year.
About the only thing Pittsburgh gets be
fore New York is the weather.
All things considered, I think Pittsburgh 
is a better place to live than New York. 
Pittsburgh is a city of People. New York is a 
city of faceless people. I can leave this cam
pus right now and within fifteen minutes, 
see someone from my old neighborhood, or 
someone I went to high school with. I can 
get in a car, practically any time of the day 
and be out in total, uninhabited wilderness 
within a half an hour. I can leave my car 
unlocked in front of a house overnight and 
Ive got a 60% chance that it will be there in 
the morning, unstripped. 1 can leave my 
door unlocked and have the same likelihood 
of nothing happening. My mother isnt 
afraid to walk the streets at night. Maybe 
shes ignorant, maybe she isnt. People who 
live in the suburbs still come into downtown 
to shop. Pittsburghers have a sense of things 
going on around them; of progress being 
made, if you will allow that catch-all phrase 
to pass. New Yorkers impress me as having a 
feeling of things going on around them, but 
for how long, they arent sure.
I suppose the ultimate criterion for 
determining how good each city is, is to 
ask yourself: Do I want to live in Pitts
burgh, New York (circle one) for the rest of 
my life? So far as Im concerned you can 
rationalize the good and ignore the bad, in 
one case, and recognize the good AND bad 
in the other case. The choice is yours.
St amp ton Crimped
SHIRLEY CHISHOLM
Candidate for President 
Monday Dec. 6 10 AM 
Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

.......-
BEER
GOOD OLD-TIME 
FLAVOR
-no other beer has it.
inmnTiiamiiiinizirm
<^te3mmbL
NATURES CHOICEST PRODUCTS PROVIDE ITS PRIZED FLAVOR 
ONLY THE FINEST OF HOPS AND GRAINS ARE USED.
Decmbr2, 197Veo2V,b,992lu o 1893
dnderthistle 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shadyside
WANTED: Anyone who is living (or has
lived) on a commune and would be inter
ested in talking with a small classof students
about that experience, call 683-6282.
WANTED: If anyone knows the where
abouts of a copy of the original manuscript 
of the piano accompaniment to the Fair
banks, Sr. film "The Mark of Zorro," please 
contact Steve Singer at Skibo Info Desk, 
Skibo 103, or ext. 214.
COLLEGE STUDENTS, age 21 or over who
are interested in part-time or full time insur
ance or mutual fund sales positionwrite 
J.E. Foust, 920 American Rockwell Build
ing, Pgh., Pa. 15222 or call 471-8150. No 
experience necessary. We will train. Oppor
tunities unlimited in both sales and 
management.
HOUSE FOR RENT: Faculty or graduate
students, Denniston near Forbes. 3 bed
rooms. $160+. 521-6493.
Wanted: Will pay $30 for fraternity-type
beer mug that says "Carnegie Tech, "Car
negie Institute of Technology," etc. Will 
reimburse for shipping. Contact: R.
Grafrath, 651 Cambridge Rd., Paramus, NJ 
07652.
Roommates UnlimitedA service agency
Your solution 566-1277.
WANTED: Student live with family. Room,
Board in exchange for babysitting. Squirrel 
Hill Area. 441-7409.
PABST BREWING COMPANY  Milwaukee, Wit., Peor.a Heights, III., Newark, N. J., Los Angeles, Cal., Pabst, Ga. 31069

---------------------------------------------------

Falso
Terence N. Palso
Dec FRENCH CONNECTION 
Directed by William Freidkin 
Chatham Theatre
Anyone who misses THE FRENCH CON
NECTION is depriving himself of one of the 
most solidly engrossing cinematic experi
ences of the year. Its been far too long since 
a thoroughly plausible film has been released 
that manages to generate genuine suspense 
without once boring its audience, but this 
film easily makes up for that draught. While 
it may not be a cinematic landmark, THE 
FRENCH CONNECTION is one film that an 
audience can sink their teeth into, and really 
enjoy.
Director William Friedkin, together with 
screenwriter Ernest Tidyman, have taken 
Robin Moores novel and used it as a vehicle 
to dramatize the real life adventures of Ed
die Egan and Sonny Grosso, two detectives 
on the New York City Narcotics Squad. 
What emerges from this collaberation is a 
taut detective film that keeps the audience 
glued to their seats from the beginning until 
the final credits. Friedkin and Tidyman have 
carefully structured their plot so that is con
tains no holes-a genuine rarity in todays 
thrillers. They also have so skillfully exe
cuted the film that it is naturally infused 
with suspense. The suspense arises from the 
incidents occuring in the film and proceeds 
to build until the final climax, just as it 
should.
Friedkin and Tidyman have made their 
two protagonists, Jimmy Doyle and Buddy 
Russo, two thoroughly believable, hard 
working cops. There is nothing glamorous 
about this pairthey are thoroughly human, 
and are extraordinary in nothing but their 
fierce dedication to their work. In fact, the
entire film is peopled with realistic charac
ters, and this coupled with the on-location 
photography makes the picture just that 
more convincing.
Friedkin and Tidyman set out to portray 
a real story, and yet did not let their quest 
for realism harm their story. They present 
police work as it really israrely glamorous, 
and often very tedious. The film is so paced 
and structured, however, that the audience 
never becomes bored with what it is being 
shown. Friedkin has taken special care in 
putting his vehicle together, so that while 
the viewer sees the tedium the policeman 
must endure, he is never so caught up in it 
that the film begins to drag for him. As a 
matter of fact, Friedkins direction is almost 
too good, for he has succeeded to a great 
degree in making the tedium of the police 
officers actually interesting.
Friedkin not only sees to it that his film is 
well structured, he also makes certain that 
his actors fit perfectly into their roles. If 
there is any bad acting in THE FRENCH 
CONNECTION it is so slight as to go unno
ticed. Almost every actor in this film turns in 
a very good, very believable performance. 
There is no over acting and no one who 
doesnt measure up to what he should be.
Heading the cast is Gene Hackman, who 
as Jimmy Popeye Doyle, gives his best 
performance since BONNIE AND CLYDE. 
Hackman is fantastic in the role of a tough, 
hard-nosed, fiercely dedicated cop whose 
single-minded devotion to his job causes him 
to pursue criminals even on his time off. He 
does a beautiful job bringing Doyle to life 
and making the audience understand Doyle 
even if some of them cant like him. Without 
care, Doyle could have become just a mean 
flatfoot, but in Hackmans hands the charac
ter evidences a human side far away from 
any possible stereotype.
Roy Scheider plays Buddy Russo, Hack
mans sidekick. Scheider is an excellent part
ner. As the more levelheaded of the pair, he
perfectly offsets Hackmans character. He is 
so convincing that it is hard to believe that 
he and Hackman arent actually partners. 
Scheiders cynical comments tossed into his 
conversation with Hackman give their ban
ter just the right flavor needed to capture the 
friendship they show in the film. These are 
not two glamorous policemen. No, rather 
they are two cops who love what they are 
doing almost as much as they value the 
friendship they have for each other.
Fernando Rey, who more frequent film 
goers recognize from his role in TR1STANA, 
plays super smuggler Alain Charner. Rey 
gives his role everything that it calls for and 
emerges as a kindly, suave, continental gen
tleman with just a hint of malice. His flair, 
and super cool attitude make his portrayal a 
pleasure to watch. Rey excellently handles 
every scene he is in, taking care to interject 
everything it needs while at the same time 
avoiding overdoing things. He especially 
makes the most of a beautifully executed 
scene in the New York subway. Without 
Reys flair and the beautiful assistance of 
Hackman, the scene would have been pure 
slapstick. Yet, these two professionals man
aged to bring it off withjust the right tempo 
to give the film a comic uplift without des
troying its suspensefui'atmosphere.
I Film audiences will undoubtedly recog
nize Marcel Bozzuffi even though they prob
ably wont remember his name. Bozzuffi 
plays Pierre Nicoli, Reys hatchet man. In 
this role, Bozzuffi continues his excellent 
portrayals of heavies which he began for 
international audiences when he played the 
assasin in Z. Bozzuffi is in danger of being 
type cast, but film audiences will find this 
fate their good fortune, for it is about time 
someone else they loved to hate besides Lee 
Marvin.
Owen Roizman directed the photo
graphy in the picture, and with few excep
tions the New York City which he chooses 
to show his audience is a grimy, decadent 
metropolis. While his camera work may not
produce frame after beautiful frame, it d< 
evoke the proper feeling for the film. T 
movie after all is not about a beautiful si 
ject-it is about the dirty world of big ti 
narcotics smuggling. Roizman cpatures t 
world in the details he includes as well a? 
the lighting he uses in many of his she 
When he does choose to portray comf 
table and expensive surroundings, the c< 
trast is strikingly and effectively felt by ( 
audience. In this era of fancy montages a 
multiple images, it is highly interesting 
note what Roizman has accomplished us 
little more than well planned basic te 
niques.
The detective thriller is a film gei 
which has been sadly neglected of late. T] 
FRENCH CONNECTION breathes new 1 
into this type of film while at the same ti, 
giving it a new direction. While this n' 
direction is soemthing film buffs will \ 
doubtedly be discussing for awhile, the 
who attend films for pure enjoyment v 
not be disappointed with this picture, 
fact, one might be hard pressed to come t 
with another film released this year which 
as satisfying on all levels as this one.
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Call
ThhisWee
Women's Medical Assistance
a non-profit organization
Grand Opening
kndOlyii.OAyiMuty
. WE OPENED A NEW SKI SHOP .
Dont Miss This!!!
5219 Baum Blvd., Near Liberty Ave.
Dhee Two Blocks from Baum & Morewood in Shadyside
CIFTS^SKIIE
36" OF PACKED BARGAINS. . . . SHOPPING IS GOOD TO EXCELLENT
We Honor: 
o MASTER CHARGE PNB o REICH - MARKS
SKI BOOTS!! while they last!!
 Koflach Racers were $45.00  Now $29.95
 6 Pair only of Koflach Expo Comp's (Last Year's) 
were $135  Now Sale price $89.95
 Large Boots assorted models, last year $120  
now only $79.
SKIS
o Head-Killy 660's, 5 pair while they last, were $175 
 now $99.99 
o Last year's skis and some new  greatly reduced.
oAND OPENINo MALE
TO GET ACQUAINTED WERE PRACTICALLY 
GIVING AWAY THESE INCREDIBLE ITEMS ! !
PANTS
o Last year's HEAD pants, were $50  now $29.95!! 
o Assorted in-booth styles only $9.95!!
PARKAS
o GIANT SALE on last year's models.
 Also gloves and mittens.  SAVE, 
o GEZE Bindings  were $37.50 . . . now $24.95
and MORE ... Come See ...

---------------------------------------------------

TWA INTRODUCES 
STUTELPASS.
BED, BREAKFAST
AND SIGHTSEEING 
IN 50 EUROPEAN CITIES.
$4.30 A DAY
NOW TWA GUARANTEES YOU 
A BED WITHOUT ANY ADVANCE RESERVATIONS.
TWAs Stutelpass* is a book of coupons that gives 
you easier travelling in Europe.
Heres how it works.
Suppose youre in London, just drop into the 
Stutelpass office before 3 PM and ask them to get you 
a bed.
And we guarantee they will.
Or if youre heading for Paris, the London Stutel
pass office can get you a bed there also, or in any one 
of the 48 other European cities.
You can buy a Stutelpass book of coupons for 10,
15, 20, 25 etc. days from TWA and either pay cash or 
charge it on your Getaway* Card.
And when you come back from Europe, any un
used coupons may be turned in for a refund.
For more ways the Stutelpass can save you money 
in Europe, call TWA.
Contact your campus representative Jon Swierzewski at 683-2500Decmbre 2,c19 7Voel eur/N9bme/W hW wdit vora

---------------------------------------------------

Match the character 
to the statement!

A. I feel like a complete ass.
B. So do I.
C. This is the only thing to do if he hikes it to you in the balls.
D. You can take this here $50,000 Stradivarius and hang it in your ass.
E. You can also do this if you have a stool.
F. . . . my never ending quest . . . towards the unknown!!
G. But . . . your tongue cantiwvw inside out.
H. For example, look at this Krypton atom at the end of my finger. . .
FLYING
11 to 2 a.m. every day GINO and PETES
Take Out Orders411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
682-8691 Hoagies The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas Made to Order Pizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
IN THE HEART
All present and prospective TARTAN staff 
I* at the meeting Thursday, 5:30, in the 
office.
Jan & Pete
OF THE BEAST
We offer a developmental alternative in education 
for those who want to affect the structure and 
priorities of our society.
Programs in the arts, communications, the social 
sciences, education, problems of minorities, law, 
political science, urban studies, environmental 
science, psychology.
Our sliding scale tuition plan enables students 
to attend who might otherwise be unable to afford 
a quality education.
A concurrent work/study program helps students 
find meaningful jobs to support themselves and to 
complement course work and individual and group 
projects.
Talk with us. Contact:
Scott Newkirk, Admissions, Drawer B, 
805 North Charles Street, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21201 TEL: 301/752-3656

---------------------------------------------------

Randy NewmanStrike Averted
Once in a long while, someone like Randy 
Newman will come along, and people will 
stop and listen. His music is a very personal 
thing, and what comes across, above all, is 
that he is at all times himself. In his first 
album, entitled simply Randy Newman, 
each song is an individual experience. Randy 
Newman will present his unique material 
Wednesday, December 8, at alive concert in 
Skibo Ballroom.
Randys songs are musical statements 
drawn out of his soul and put together with 
his head. Soemtimes they seem like a cry, 
sometimes a wail from somewhere very far 
away. But the essence of them all is the 
unspoken feeling from which his songs have 
come, and to which you, as the listener, go.
Randy Newman is something more than a 
composer and something other than a singer. 
He creates visions devoid of accepted social 
graces, humor that is as black as it is devastatingly funny.
An accomplished musician who has 
studied the classics all his life, he is on the 
road now, gladly performing for the audi
ences of whom he used to be afraid. New
man himself could be called decadent. So 
Long, Dad and Davy the Fat Boy arent 
exactly hymns to the kindness of man, even 
if they do sing the awful truth.
Randy Newman composes melodies that 
sound like forties jazz tunes, and writes 
lyrics that combine the cynicism of the 
fifties with the Pop insouciance of the six
ties. Newman has immense talent; he is one 
of the cleaverest lyricists in the business and 
plays fne jazz piano.
Also appearing at the ballroom on Dec
ember 8 will be Bonnie Raitt. Shes intelli
gent, beautiful, witty, charming, eventempered and a hundred other adjectives 
denoting urbanity. Shes barely in her twen
ties but she is making a career out of singing 
the blues. Call it a feeling for the music, a 
gifted insight into the psychology of the 
blues that makes it more than a twelve bar 
standard musical form. Her delivery is so 
spirited and her guitar playing so expertly 
rooted in the best traditions of the genre 
that she can transport her audience into that 
mystifying distinctive blues realm whether 
shes singing a rock song, a standard, one of 
her compositions or a traditional country 
blues.
Be sure to get your tickets to this show 
before theyre all gone. Bonnie Raitt and 
Randy Newman, Live and in concert, Wed
nesday December 8, in the Ballroom. There 
will be two shows, 7:30 and 10:30 PM. 
Ticket pricesa low $1.50, $2.50 for nonCMU students. Another AB dollar stretcher.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos and Pipes 
in the City
BRIAR BOWL
3725 FORBES ST. Ml-6045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
ATTENTION STUDENTS
FUR COATS 
FUR JACKETS
from $10 
USED - RECONDITIONED
/Veu* York Fur Co.
606 Century Building 
 281-7329 
By a vote of 105-23 on November 30, 
Carnegie-Mellon University employees 
(members of local 29-Building Trades and 
Services Union) approved a new 3 year con
tract. Most workers were surprised the Uni
versity offered a reasonable (although, many 
felt, far from a very good) contract.
Some of the major points in the contract 
included:
Equal pay for women. (A woman who 
does a job that a man does will get the same 
pay.)
A $50 a week sick pay to all workers 
regardless of seniority. (This does not mean 
that sick leave pay earned for length of em
ployment is lost.)
Food service workers will get the same 
pension benefits (retroactively) as all other 
campus workers. (NoteFood Service em
ployees have only been unionized for the 
past two years while all other workers have 
been in the union for 6 years.)
As of Dec. 1, 1971, workers will get a 
$.35 an hour increase for the First year, $.25 
an hour in addition the second year, and 
$.20 more in addition the third year. Since 
an increase of $.35 an hour is above the 5Vi% 
allowed in Nixons Phase II the contract will 
go before the Wage-Price Board. The Univer
sity has agreed to petition the Board along 
with the union for the increase. Since CMU 
workers have up to now earned less than 
their counterparts at some of the other Pitts
burgh colleges, it is expected that the Board 
will approve the increase.
There will be an additional increase (yet 
to be negotiated) for skilled employees and 
apprentices.
Making Love is Great. 
Making Her Pregnant isnt.
n,re bya pse ce,celg b9ozy .N9y S7c s7W Dr7Ny9a vS W7N ce,//W r,ce 
,h7Ny W7Nc /bSe ,ol ec9t W7NT// y,1e cer,Nyb7o9 y7 cemeoy ,o 
,rrbleoy,/ ceo,orWa sW N9bo , r7ol72a Ioe 7S y7l,WT9 new 
r7ol729 aaa 97 b/W ce/b,h/e Wey 97 euYNb9bye/W 9eo9bybme y,y W7N 
o7 /7oec ,me y7 9,rcbSbre /e,9Nce S7c 9,SeyWa
D7 VW cNo ye cb91 7S ,rrbleoy,/ ceo,orWk A9erb,//W o7V y,y 
W7N r,o ey S,27N9-hc,ol r7ol729 cbm,ye/WPhW 2,b/PSc72 C7NM
/,yb7o C/,oobo i997rb,ye9a
Deol S7c 7Nc Scee b//N9yc,yel hc7rNce le9rcbhbo ye Vble 9e/eryb7o 
7S r7ol729 Ve 7SSeca DNr ,9 ye 7N/,c wc7.,oa we euyc,-ybo 
Ccb2ea we ce-9,el U7oyNcea we f7bo-C,r1t ,r1,el bo ,olW 
7/l S7b/ pr7bo9aG iol 2,oW 27cea i// e/eryc7obr,//W ye9yel y7 2eey 
cb7c7N9 nOi 9erbSbr,yb7o9a
SPECIAL
CHRISTMAS
OFFER!
;,1e Ucb9y2,9 2eccbec yb9 We,c 
aaaVby 7Nc NobYNe Ucb9y2,9 
9,2/ec r7oy,bobo 0 ,997cyel 
r7ol729 bo , 7/l S7b/ h7u 
ycb22el Vby , hcby cel ,ol 
7/l ybea U7oy,bo9 YN,cyec-l7Beo 
,r1ey9 7S ye  hc,ol9 2eoyb7oel 
,h7meaaa /N9 7oe Uce9y-D1bot 
2,le 7S 9Nec-9eo9bybme ,ob2,/ 
2e2hc,oea n7c e,r 9,2/ect 
/N9 7Nc hc7rNcet 9eol .N9y *j 
/N9 jyS 79y,e ,ol ,ol/boa 
i? 7clec9 Sb//el ye 9,2e l,W ceM
rebmel ,ol 9bel Sbc9y r/,99a 
;7oeW h,r1 bS o7y le/byel:
Population Planning Associates 105 North Columbia Chapel Hill, N.C. 27S14
Gentlemen: Please send me:_____Christmas Gift Samplers at $5each, plus 500 postage and handling.I enclose___________to cover cost.I understand that you will refund my money in full if I am not delighted.? Free illustrated brochure only.
name(please print)
address
citystate
zips269
TV GMB*  WI& /N NMIN
its smL-im  o \m k vitu.
Nb oib 
.............
.............t\t
mb Hta r2,  mm ^
1,e m  D,b
1VL NtW 1W waft
tw mma ^ 
t
Te
r 
SI

---------------------------------------------------

OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters 
for Hardicare 
^ Desk Lamps ^ Key Service ^ Artist Brushes 
^ Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints ^ School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avon us OAKLAND Phene 621-0923
Why did the U.S. Government censor this film after the first H-bomb dropped  
see
HIROSHIMA-NAGASAKI
What type of animal does war make of man?? 
observe the 
FIRES ON THE PLAINS
Friday Dec.3 7:30,9:00 DH2210 
$.75 with AB card, $ 1.00 without
A film-trip into realityby your Activities Board
9
.00 O0

---------------------------------------------------

IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER
For your next holiday you can be in London for $255. Rome $259. Paris 
$270. Or Greece $338. '
These are just some of TWAs low round trip fares for youths between the 
ages of 12 and 25.
Who knows how much longer theyll be in effect, so for more details call 
TWA.
And to help you save money when youre on vacation, send for TWAs new 
Gretaway* Kit.
Its free and it will tell you where you can get...
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING 
FOR ONLY $4.30 A DAY.
Only TWA offers you the Stutelpass* It is a book of vouchers you can buy 
for 10,15, 20, 25, etc., days for just $4.30 a day.
Each voucher entitles you to a bed, breakfast and sightseeing in 50 Euro
pean cities. No advance reservations necessary.
The kit also tells you where to...
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY.
In over 15 European cities, you can drive a car all around the city for just 
$3.65 a day, plus gas and 4V2<t per kilometer.
And how to save money with...
SPECIAL SKI TOURS.
TWA has some of the lowest priced ski tours toVail, Aspen, and Steamboat.
Or if you want to ski the Alps, take a TWA tour. It saves you over 50% of 
the cost of travelling alone.
The kit also tells you how to get a...
GETAWAYCARD.
Youll receive an application blank. Theres no minimum income require
ment. And no yearly maintenance fee.
Use your Getaway Card to charge airfare, Stutelpasses, tours, almost 
everything. And then take up to two years to pay.
Now whats even easier than getting away for the holidays, is getting a 
Getaway Kit.
Just use the coupon.
TWA, P.O. Box 402, Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735
Send all the information you have on bargain 
vacations in Europe and the U.S.A. to:
N ame______________________________________
Address.
CityStateZip Code
Service marks owned exclusively bv TWA.
Airfares quoted are from Chicago.
i = mss*

---------------------------------------------------

IceHockeyBasketballWrestling
The ice hockey season at CMU has finally 
rrived with the Tartans first league game 
ing scheduled for this Tuesday, December 
against Penn State, McKeesport. The 
game will be played at the Alpine Arena, just 
a short drive from CMU. Directions to the 
arena are given below. Game time is at 8:30 
PM and tickets may be obtained at the Skibo 
Information Desk or at the Alpine Arena.
Tuesdays contest will be Penn States 
second game of the season. In their first 
^ame, Slippery Rock, rated the best defen
sive team in the league, shut out Penn State 
by a score of 3 to 0. In other games so far this 
season, Pitt showed superior depth as it de
feated Duquesne, 10 to 2, and Slippery 
Rock earned its second win of the season by 
defeating St. Vincent, 5 to 3.
The Tartans have been training since the 
beginning of October and are developing 
greater depth in goal-scoring behind what is 
anticipated to be one of the highest scoring 
lines in the league, consisting of freshmen 
Mike Ken worthy and Dick Eastman, and 
junior Jim Powers. CMU also boasts some 
sharp goaltending in sophomore Jeff Hart. 
At the blue line, CMU sports the biggest 
defensive pairs in the league of Ken Ford and 
Alan Leff, and Terry Michael and Ray 
Weaver. Their resounding body checks are 
the rule, not the exception (ask Ken). The 
effectiveness of the Tartan defense will de
termine the success of the team.
Tartan hockey is exciting, fast, and 
rugged; and it will all be brought to you live 
and in color this Tuesday at the Alpine Arena. Lets see all of you out there giving the 
team the support it deserves!
DIRECTIONS TO THE ALPINE ARENA: 
The Alpine Arena is in Edgewood. Take 
the Parkway east (towards Monroeville) and 
take the Wilkinsburg exit. Bear left immedi
ately on leaving the exit and make a left turn 
at the first set of lights, taking you onto 
Marlboro St. Follow Marlboro St. for a short 
distance until it joins Maple St. Make a left 
h turn on Maple (taking you over a bridge 
above the Parkway) and make your first 
right, just after the bridge. There will be 
signs at this point. The Alpine will be on 
your right. Hope to see you there.
Soccer
Its been a little over three weeks since 
the last soccer game, but three weeks is 
enough time for nostalgia to come creeping 
in the back door. The season was not an 
overwhelming success, but it did have a 
plethora of high lights, both for the indivi
dual player and the entire team.
One of the criteria for a good and success
ful team is that the individual players have 
confidence in themselves and that they find 
satisfaction in playing the game. This is the 
type of player who not only adds spirit to 
the team, but also the selfless dedication and 
ability that generates the important momen
tum in an offense or defense. These qualities 
were certainly prevalent in Joel Kniesely, 
Kenny Kern, John Lape, Mike Smith, Juan 
Neffa, Goran Bencic, Dan Streyle, and Peter 
Moses. They are primarily responsible for 
the teams success at CMU. Peter Moses and 
Juan Neffa once again were named to the 
all-league status. Goran Bencic was cited to 
second all-league status. In a newly inno
vated all-star game to be played December 4, 
all of these players, with the exception of 
Kenny Kern, will represent CMU on the 
Souths team. Most experts expect that the 
game will be lopsidedly in favor of the South 
(which includes Pitt) over the North, but it 
should be interesting to note how the CMU 
players perform in competition with the 
best players from other teams.
I sincerely hope that the CMU players 
involved are able to convincingly show how 
good CMU is; best of luck to them.
The CMU icemen have finished their pre
season schedule with an 0-2 record. The first 
loss came at Gannon College, where the Erie 
school skated to a 7-3 win. The Tartans had 
only eleven men to face the larger, deeper 
Gannon team which had trounced them 
11-1 last season. The Tartans skated well this 
year, but a strong team effort earned the win 
for Gannon. Gannon quickly took the offen
sive, holding the puck in the Tartan zone for 
a barrage of shots, but couldnt score until 7 
minutes into the game. Mike Kenworthy 
countered a minute later with a shorthanded 
goal for CMU. He added a second goal mid
way through the next period on assists from 
Rick Purcell and Jim Powers. CMU was hold
ing up well after two periods trailing only 
4-2. But the depth of Gannon wore the 
Tartans down, and CMUs last score, a 
slapped in rebound of Purcells shot by Pow
ers, was not enough as Gannon took it, 7-3.
The next preseason game was against Bob 
Wytowichs Polish Army, and this time the 
Tartans were victimized not by a team but 
by a star. Donny Rizzo scored five goals and 
an assist in leading the Army to an 8-2 win. 
His skating proved to be the difference in 
what were otherwise evenly matched teams. 
Gene Vaskov (Bucknell) and Dave Bohnson 
(Pitt) each added a goal and an assist for the 
victors. Tartan goals were both scored by 
area students skating with the CMU team. 
Mike Mackin scored to end the first period 
and tie the game at 1 all. Steve Klemz fol
lowed with a score two minutes into the
second period to give CMU a 2-1 lead that
lasted exactly 12 seconds. From there on it 
was all Polish Army time on the Alpine rink.
The observations so far indicate that 
CMUs first line can skate with anyone. The 
good health of some regulars and the deve
lopment of some depth could mean the City 
Division crown for the Red and White.
Line Scores:
CMU 1 1 1-3
Gannon 2 2 3-7
Shots on Goal:
CMU20 
Gannon36
Line Scores:
CMU 1 1 0-2
Polish Army 1 4 38
Shots on Goal:
CMU-19 
Polish Army38
Scoring by Periods:
FIRST PERIOD: PA-Vaskov (Rizzo), 
2:56; CMU-Mackin, 0:57. Penalties: East
man, CMU, 19:13; Weaver, CMU, 1:41. SE
COND PERIOD: CMUKlemz, 18:00; 
PA^= Burns (Bohnson),17:48; PA-Rizzo 
(Garstka), 17:35; PA-Rizzo, 10:25; PABohnson,2:55. Penalties: Bohnson,
PA,19:17; Mackin,. CMU,10:33; Powers, 
CMU, 10:33; Walde, PA,10:33; Bohnson, 
PA,5:05; Klemz, CMU,1:15. THIRD 
PERIOD: PARizzo, 8:23; PA-Rizzo 
(Kisic, Vaskov), 5:42; PA-Rizzo(Walde), 
3:35. Penalties: None.
HOW MANY OLD, WARPED, 
WORTHLESS RECORDS 
CAN YOU DIG UP IN THE NEXT WEEK?
WHY SHOULD YOU EVEN CARE? 
EACH ONE IS WORTH A BRAND NEW 
HIT ALBUM TO ANYONE WITH A 
CMU ID, THAT'S WHY
The
WRCT/9
Record Exchange
LISTEN TO THE OLD COLLECTOR 
NIGHTLY FOR DETAILS
CMUs 1971-72 basketball fortunes will 
rest heavily on the shoulders of one 59 
record-breaking guard, senior Gene Turner, 
according to head basketball coach Jim 
Brown.
In his first season last year with the 
Tartans, the transfer student from 
Allegheny Community College set a new 
single season field goal mark with 168, led 
CMU scorers with 396 points for a 20.8 per 
game average, and was second high reboun
der with 97 for the season. Turner was high 
scorer in 13 of CMUs 19 game in 1970-71 
and his deft moves and ball handling were a 
key factor in the Tartans hustling style of 
play.
The Tartans will again be handicapped by 
lack of height, and they will undoubtedly 
miss last years leading rebounder, Kevin 
Cotter, who graduated. A further blow to 
the Plaids prospects was the failure of four 
experienced players to come out this year: 
Ed Aul, Mike Conrad, Henry Ryan and 
Frank Sacco.
Two returning regulars who will play key 
roles in the CMU fortunes are senior Jeff 
Hollis and sophomore Mike Wegener. Hollis, 
who will team with Turner at the guard 
spots, was last years third leading scorer, 
with 198 points for a 10.4 per game average. 
Despite his 58 height, he was also last 
years third high rebounder. Wegener was 
last years fourth hgih scorer and had the 
best shooting average, making .609 per cent 
on his shots from the field.
Another likely starter is freshman Mark 
Donato, a 63 center. Others who should 
see a lot of action are sophomore Gary 
Rentsch, a 6 guard, and sophomore Tim 
Taylor, a 62 inside man.
The Tartans have only 19 out for basket
ball this year, and because of the need for 
freshmen on the varsity, will drop junior 
varsity competition.
Assisting Head Coach Brown will be 
Richard Mullins and John Meister. CMU will 
play only seven games at home in the 18- 
game 1971-72 schedule. Last years final 
record was 6-13. CMUs first home game is 
against Ohio-Wesleyan Tuesday, Dec. 7.
The wrestling team encounters its firsi 
three opponents this Saturday, Dec. 4; A1 
legheny, Thiel and Westminster will test the 
Tartans second year wrestling team. Heading 
the team this year will be co-captains Allen 
Kohan (134) and Steve Etkin (150). Other 
probable starting members are George Wargo (118), Ken Sauter (126), Tom Diller 
(142), and Vic Rogers (158). In addition, 
Monti Ishge, Don Irwin, Joe Curilla, Pete 
Kelston, and Charlie Lightfoot round out 
the team. Due to conflicts, Dave Obarski 
(177) and Clyde Ligons (190) most likely 
wont be able to compete this Saturday.
The team hopes to have a more successful 
season this year than last (the previous sea
sons unblemished record was 0-9). Coached 
by Paul Steva, with assistance from Leonard 
Jones and George Prinser, the team is fairly 
solid in the lower weights, but vacancies 
from 167 lbs. up to HWT need to be filled in 
and backed up. Anyone interested in wrest
ling this semester or next, (10 meets are 
scheduled second semester), contact Coach 
Steva any afternoon after 3:30 in the 
gymnasium.
Wrestling is one of the most rewarding 
and personally satisfying sports. With in
creased support and participation the results 
should become tangible by way of team 
victories.
FINAL STANDINGS 
Water Polo:
WL
1. BTP A40
2. ATO31
3. BTP C-Men22
4. SAE13
5. SN04
Squash:
WL
1. The Hammers60
2. SN42
3. PKT16
4. BTP06
DIMENSIONS IN COMMUNICATION
ENCOUNTER GROUP
This weekend group will explore communication, 
understanding and trust. The goal: to increase personal 
ability to "come across in real-world situations.
Ike Powers, the group leader, has been a writer, laborer, 
teacher and lumberjack. Now a priest, he trained in 
Personal Growth Leadership at National Training 
Laboratories and uses experiential methods in personal 
growth workshops across the country.
The Dimensions in Communication encounter 
group workshop happens Dec. 3-4. There are also evening 
workshops lasting one night to two months, parties, yoga 
and a weekly "open house." For information, call:
Center for Human Development217 North Craig Street Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 412/687-1400
Reaching, sharing, understanding. Together:'
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
:Student Discount on Most Items
3711 FORBES AVENUEPhone: 683-2181

---------------------------------------------------

About Randy Newman
i firr TT Trii T" - r VL NNNNNtWWWWW iW W WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW fWWWWWr
rarely gives a concert
. . . the full emergence of a leading innovater in rock and roll.
(Rolling Stone)
... a very important songwriter, superb music.
(N. Y. Times)
. . . one of the most truly underated musical talents in the world.
(Arizona Republic)
Randy Newman is a phenomenon, one of a kind, probably the most authentic pop 
music talent ro come along in the last 20 years.
(Philadelphia Daily News)
. . . mounting acclaim as one of the best young pop composers.
( Newsweek)
. . . one of the most original and imaginative songwriters of today.
(Hit Parade)
. . . the most unique and consistently impressive songwriter to have evolved from the 
new popular music.
(Nathentoff, Cosmopolitan)
. . . Newman is one of the tightest, most aware, sophisticated rock people around.
(Cincinnati Enquirer)
. . . Newman wove a spell over the SRO crowd.
(Fusion)
In admiring a attendance at one of his rare concerts at 
the Bitter End in New York were Bob Dylan, Barbra 
Streisand, Odetta, and Alan Jay Lerner.
"She combines purity with a certain toughness - a strong 
voice, some tasty bottleneck guitar, and piano playing and 
song writing very similar to Carole King's."
the activities board presents 
Randy Newman and 
Bonnie Raitt in concert
Weds. Dec. 8  Skibo Ballroom
*1*50 with I.D.
2 Shows 7:30 and 10:30
