AB IN RED
by James M. Russell
The Activities Board, the student run 
organization which sponsors practically all 
concerts on campus, has accumulated a 
$4952 deficit over the past two years, most 
of it from concerts.
On September 11, Student Senate, 
which funds the Activities Board with 
money from the $12.50 that each student 
pays each semester for student activities, 
voted 17-1 to pay off the ABs debts. But 
th Senate Finance Committee, chaired by 
Willie Roy Thompson, will meet after the 
homecoming concert to reexamine the 
ABs use of student funds for concerts.
Immediately after Senate agreed to pay 
the deficit, Director of Student Activities 
Robert McCurdy told the senators present, 
As one who has observed your financial 
activities as a body since you assumed con
trol of the student activities fee 
money. . . I want to say you are going to 
have to assume collective responsibility 
over the irresponsibility of the organiza
tions you fund. Now is the time to start, 
not next March, April or September.
Some AB operations, such as the Friday
Ini trtan
September 25, 1973 Volume 74 Number 2
4, SiM. * . iH
Leslie Toth (left) and Ira Picker of the Activities Board.Photo bv Elliot Arons
Leich Appointed Head
by Sharon Curcio
On September 11, Dean Midani of the 
College of Fine Arts named Dr. Roland 
Leich the acting head of the Music Depart
ment. Dr. Leich replaces Sidney Harth, 
whose resignation came unexpectedly. 
'Harth is currently on a years sabbatical as 
the associate conductor and concertmaster 
of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Or
chestra.) Dean Midani appointed a search 
committee to find a permanent successor.
Dr. Leich has taught music theory and 
composition at C-MU since 1948 and 
became a full professor in 1968. He holds 
degrees from Curtis Institute of Music, 
Dartmouth College, (where he taught 
before coming to C-MU), and the Eastman 
School of Music. The composer of 
orchestral, chamber and choral works. Dr. 
Leich has served as the associate director 
and accompanist of - the Pittsburgh 
Mendelssonn Choir tor twenty years.
Dr. Harth said that if he returns to
night film series, have actually produced a 
budget surplus. But during the 1972-73 
fiscal year, the organization lost $750 on 
the Thursday night Film Arts series and
$3,790 on concerts. The official total 
deficit of the AB is $2881, but this figure 
is based on the assumption that the Byrds 
continued on page 7
Deckmann to blame says Flaherty
by Steven Correll
After 16 years of teaching at C-MU, 
John Flaherty wont be giving his 
scheduled course in law this semester. 
About a week before classes started, 
Richard W. Deckmann, Director of the 
GSIA evening school, told Flaherty he 
wasnt needed to teach any course.
Deckmann explains that he fired 
Flaherty because he assumed Flaherty, a 
candidate for judge of the Court of 
Common Pleas, would quit teaching when 
he won the judgeship. But Deckmann 
admits he never asked Flaherty whether he 
planned to stay. Flaherty himself claims he 
had no intention of quitting. I dont want 
the students to think I walked out on 
them, so to speak, he adds.
(Flaherty won the Democratic 
nomination for the judgeship in the Spring 
primary. Since voter registration here is 
heavily Democratic, he is considered very 
likely to win the election this fall and 
assume the bench in January.)
The dismissal came suddenly; many
Deckmann. Deckmann says that though he 
could not be sure Flaherty would leave, he 
went about finding a successor anyway and 
then, once the replacement had been hired, 
dismissed Flaherty.
In my judgement, it was a likelihood 
that (Flaherty) wouldnt be here any more 
beginning some time in the next year, 
contends Deckmann, who added, I dont 
know of any city judge that teaches... I 
continued on page 6
Roland Leich, 
Department.
acting head of the Music 
Photo by Rie Werme
C-MU in 1974,  ... it will be in the capa
city of Andrew Mellon Professor of Violin 
without the administrative duties formerly 
assigned to me. Last year. Dr. Harth drew 
continued on page 7
Herb Olds Recognized 
for Outstanding Teaching
John Flaherty, dismissed professor of law.
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
students who had preregistered in the 
spring were surprised to find Flaherty 
gone. Flaherty wasnt notified very soon 
before the (school) term started, admits
An associate professor of painting and 
sculpture is the receipient of the 
Universitys 1973 Ryan Award for 
Meritorious Teaching. Herbert T. Olds in 
addition to being an excellent productive 
artist with an impressive growing 
exhibition record, has consistently 
motivated students to become highly in
volved with their own personal creative
work.
Professor Orville Winsand, head of the
Parking Problems An Unchanging Problem
There's no surplus of parking spaces on Tech Street.Photo by Stan Edelston
by Bill Bromley
The Parking Advisory Committee, the 
body that recommends rates and rules for 
the C-MU parking system, met last 
Wednesday and heard complaints from the 
Commuter Council and residents of 
Doherty Graduate House. Security Chief 
Ron Taylor reported that there remains an 
overall surplus of spaces, the committee 
endorsed some of the suggestions of the 
complainants, and it seems generally un
likely that the parking system will change 
in any basic way before Fall 1974.
The committee is composed of a faculty 
representative, Dr. David Cass; a staff 
continued on page 8
Herbert T. Olds, P&S instructor, with a student.
Photo courtesy C-MU Public Relations
department of painting and sculpture, in 
nominating Mr. Olds further sta*' hat 
The dynamic interaction . has 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973
EDITORS MOTE
Clarification.
The best story Ive seen in my short journalism career broke last 
week at C-MU. It was the best story for two reasons: first, because it was 
extremely representative of what has to be, from the students point of 
view, the most dangerous and tragic flaw in private higher education. 
Second because it involved a very violent and unusually intense difference 
of opinion between the two most powerful interests in any private 
universitythe administration and the individuals who donate large sums 
of money to it.
This is such a good story that / think it deserves to be further 
clarified and analyzed. So that we can all understand its implications.
Im speaking, of course, of the FI inn House story.
The scenario is this: C-MU has a property liability on its hands, an 
old unused mansion across from Mudge graduate house. After it was 
decided that the costs of fixing it up and using it for students would be 
too high, the idea of leasing it to the state occurred. Specifically, it was to 
be used as a rehabilitation center for female prisoners. Minor offenders. 
Drug users and maybe a few prostitutes.
President Cyerts wife was very involved in these activities and Cyert 
spoke all last year about the project. It was planned and zoning hearings 
were ready to start this fall when suddenly some people whose names are 
very powerful got wind of the idea. Then, before you could swallow, the 
project was dead. Like a snap of your fingers. Just like that.
The swiftness of this action is somewhat frightening. It brings to 
mind all the old rhetoric about the ultimate power to control the uni
versity that the men with big money have. In this case, they seem to have 
exerted their control for two simple reasons: money, and right-wing 
political beliefs. They feared that property values would go down, and 
they were naturally antagonistic to any kind of social reform.
It certainly wasnt the neighbors who stopped the program. Too 
many of them have denied that. Too many of them have stated their 
whole-hearted support of the program. Too many people have shaken 
their heads and admitted that it wasnt the neighbors. It was those 
anonymous big names.
How can it be that such people have such power? Who lets them? 
Why are things like that?
That, my friends, is the dangerous and tragic flaw in private higher 
education.
What makes this story representative, but at the same time unusual, 
is that the administration, specifically the president, was in direct op
position to the big money. One gets the impression from talking to him 
that Cyert fought as hard as he could for the program, but in the end was 
forced to bow to severe pressure.
What makes me convinced of this is an almost off-hand comment 
that Cyert made in his office last week. Ive debated with myself the 
merits of making this statement public, and Ive wondered whether Cyert 
might not want this to be publicized, but it has made such an impression 
on me that / feel compelled to mention it: He said that he was so upset by 
the action that was taken and the way the action was taken that he 
seriously considered resigning.
He seriously considered resigning.
This is no small consideration. And it seems to me to be the best 
reflection of how utterly unreasonable the action of the anonymous big 
names must have been.
We know the names. We have from a reliable source the names of the 
two people who were most responsible. But / wont disclose them now. 
Figure it out for yourself. Where do you spend your time? Baker Hall? 
Doherty Hall? It cant be them, theyre both dead.
ATTENTION: STAFF
1. The general staff meeting scheduled for 
this Thursday has been canceled.
Letters:
Editor:
With respect to the commendable pro
posal that the University provide a house 
for use as a rehabilitation center for former 
women offenders, Alan Paton has given us 
a closing text:
An offender must be punished ... I 
dont argue about that. But to punish 
and not to restore, that is the greatest of 
all offenses ... If man takes unto him
self Gods right to punish, then he must 
also take upon himself Gods promise to 
restore .. . Theres a hard law, that 
when a deep injury is done to us, we 
never recover until we forgive.
Thomas M. Kerr 
GSIA
'Editor:
I am writing-this letter in an attempt to 
explain to Mr. Rowell and all others the 
system that I proposed for compensation 
of dorm residents who have either been, or 
have had placed with them, temporary 
residents.
The intended meaning of the phrase 
daily rent may be stated in the formula: 
Daily rent = R/D
(Where R=rent for one person for one 
semester, D=days that room is occupied 
in that semester).
This will result in a number in the units 
of dollars/days. This number should be
....and so, without my course 
'in Intermediate French, mes petites, 
!yow would be lost to the rich prose 
/of Balzac, Flaubert, and Camus; to the 
philosophies of Sartre ; to the absurdly 
magnificent plays of Ionesco and Genet; 
to the stunning humor and pathos of 
Sainte-Exuperey
and to the breathtaking finality of 
the college diploma....
multiplied by the appropriate factor (2/3 
to 1/5) and then multiplied by the number 
of days that the extra resident is actually in 
the room. This number is the rebate due 
each resident of the room, including the 
temporary resident.
This letter is written in reply to the 
TARTANs article of September 7 on the 
housing crisis.
James D. Johnston 
continued on page 7tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders 
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Business Manager
Dwayne Smalls
News Editor.........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans
Head Reporter....................Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff.............................
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton 
Kevin Turcott, Lois Wholey 
Chip Yeager
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel
Entertainment Editor .... Sue Klein 
Entertainment Staff . . Nonie Dempsey 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Hank Levy, Steve Perkins 
Cyndy Schmidt, Doug Stone
TheA Staff .............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
Sports Editor 
Sports Staff
...................Jeff Englund
.....................Glenn Campbell
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Business Staff.....................Lester Nathan
Layout StaffArlene Berkowitz 
Louise Lopinto
Cartppniit ., .mow Nuumb Ron Wiggins
2. A position is now open for anyone inte
rested in assuming the responsibilities of 
Events Editor. Contact Sue Klein.
3. The deadline for all articles is Wednesda> 
at 5:00. Any article that is received 
after that time will not be printed.
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy 
that it considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic 
year by the student government corporation of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon for announcements, classified ads and 
letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display ads on the Wednesday 
preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located in 
Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973-Page 3
NEWS COMMENT
While waiting for my departure, via a passing grade, from the possessive 
grips of the Physics/Calculus course last year, / can now transcribe my 
opinion and observations of this introductory Engineering and Science 
Course,
Solubility in 33-111
Hypothesis:
One of the strong drawing factors of the E&S program at Carnegie-Mellon 
University was the combined physics and calculus program. Since Newton 
had developed the calculus as a tool for his physical laws, it seemed 
structually logical to recreate this feeling of intimacy between the two 
subjects by combining them. It likewise seemed a very practical idea since 
Physics students cannot begin to study the laws of motion without some 
background in Calculus.
Procedure:
1. Take 300 parts unsuspecting CIT-MIS students and dump into 
large lecture hall.
2. Add 1 part physics professor and allow to instruct on alternate 
days.
3. Add 1 part calculus professor and allow to instruct on days 
physics instructor is allowed to rest.
4. Quickly dissolve very large quantities of information (a chapter a 
week for each of the subjects) into original sample of students.
5. Without allowing information into solution exam the students 
(observe precipitate).
6. Add additional information and continue to exam at frequent 
intervals. Do not stop at frequent observation of cloudy solution, 
this is typical of such a procedure as is exercised here.
7. Two semesters later, take 300 parts suspecting CIT-MIS students 
and dump into another large lecture hall.
8. Take original solute that has gone completely out of solution and 
redissolve at much slower pace. Take into account unfamiUarity of 
sample.
Observations:
1. As predicted cloudy solution appeared frequently.
2. Precipitate upon examination indicates that information was 
properly dissolved.
3. Retention rate by sample (solvent) of solvent was negligible. 
Conclusions:
1. It appears that the method is faulty. Slower introduction of 
information into solution would result in a much higher rate of it 
dissolving.
2. Separation by teacher, day and topic does not yield desired 
quantity of subject interaction. Topics should be more heavily 
co-ordinated with consideration even given to the procedure of giving 
a semester of calculus before even starting the physics program.
3. Fudged data is the reason for appeQrance of experiments 
success. Accurate analysis is necessary. This analysis can be achieved 
by introducing a comparison (control) system where information is 
dissolved separately at a slower rate. At end of semester, give both 
systems the same examination and observe precipitate. Results 
should be conclusive.
4. Although hypothesis is theoretically correct, a revised procedure is 
necessary for accurate and desirable results.
Gary Singer, Managing Editor
for Campus Mail:
A Modern Language is necessary 
A M.L. is valuable but not necessary 
A M.L. should be optional 
11 ________________________________
Running into brick walls is something most people experience at 
some time. Trying to break through, climb over, dig under or blast apart is 
apt to cause a little excitement. In fact, since the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences first announced their requirements one requirement 
has been under steady demolition efforts. Hardly a semester has passed 
within the last three years when the re-evaluation of the language 
requirement has not engaged the College Council in a not so intellectually 
calm debate.
The Philosophy of the college as set forth by the College Council (an 
advisory group consisting of department heads, three faculty represent
atives, five student representatives, Deans Steinberg and Lloyd) calls for a 
breadth in education. That "breadth was arbitrarily decided to include 
one math course, one science course, and one in math, science or logic, 
one history, one literature, two other humanities, two social sciences, one 
art course and the infamous twelve units at the intermediate level of a 
modern language. Students have repeatedly pointed to other universities 
that have dropped their requirement; they point out that English is 
rapidly becoming the common language and that more time should be 
spent on learning our own; they call attention to the overworn argument 
tjat a modern language is not necessary; they plead that its time spent at 
labor when that time could be spent more profitably on more pertinent 
courses; they argue that its outmoded, and on, and on, and on. The 
majority of faculty representatives and Dean Steinberg are not deaf. They 
honestly believe in the democratic creed that Everyone should be 
sympathetically heard, added our dean, "but universities cant run on a 
single democratic system . . . after they are heard, decisions are made.  
Hmmmm.
The theory behind the requirement is that you know your own 
language best if you know something about another and that you should 
be familiar with a foreign culture. Argue with that and youve already lost. 
But to learn the culture why not take a history course, or for that matter, 
a trip abroad. As for the other argument, well why go the round about 
way of'^studying your own language? If it is as Dean Steinberg stated that 
you should know "something about another language who determines 
that something to be twelve units on the intermediate level? The who is 
obvious, the why, arbitrary.
The counter argument rests in a huge inconsistency within the 
College of H&SS itself. If breadth and knowledge are really the primary 
concern why does depth only come into play with language? Why is there 
no requirement that compels you to take Calculus II; or acquire 
competence in literature beyond Literary Imagination; or for that matter 
why not an advanced course in composition or philosophy?
Secondly, if a belief in the importance of advancing oneself in a 
language is the ultimate reason for retaining a language requirement and 
not a contest of wills between Dean and students, then why can you place 
out of language?
Im not about to make a case against a language requirement, Im 
masochistic, and besides those who ultimately make the decisions have 
heard it all before. Dean Steinberg already told me that he could probably 
make a better case for not having it than any student; I welcome it. But 
what needs to be straightened out is why the problem reappears with no 
satisfactory solution for BOTH parties. Student and faculty opposition is 
tolerated-and ignored.
It all started back in 69 when some fortunates received a misprinted 
(?) letter stating that H&SS was an experimental college and as such 
would not require additional study in foreign language. Adhering to the 
promise in the letter, Dean Steinberg permitted the randomly chosen few, 
maybe 19 in all, to graduate without that ever important competence in a 
modern language. Were they not deprived of the value of a breadth of 
education?
Now before any mass demonstration gets underway there are several 
things you ought to thrash about in your heads. Number one, what makes 
your opinion hold weight? Naturally when someone has been out in the 
real world his opinion just jas to be more prudent than yours. "That might 
sound like the faculty is more important than the students, said our 
Dean. Well that might be true.  Oh.
Number two, H&SS is not the great experimental, progressive college 
it started out to be. Third, it doesnt intend to change at least not in that 
direction.
Now that leaves several alternatives:
A) You can quit and go to another college that doesnt have a 
language requirementof course youll lose a little money and a few 
credits, maybe a year or
B) You can submit a petition to the Variance Committee to wn ? 
your requirement but since the Variance Committee has a 1006 
average for never waiving language youll expend a lot of energy 
against another great wall or
C) You can rant and rave, which only increases the hostility that puts 
Dean Steinberg and other Council members, who firmly believe in or 
argue for the necessity of language at the intermediate level, on the 
defensive and consequently immovable side or
D) You could drop the card below in the campus mail-Id like to 
think for once we really arent apathetic OR
E) You can encourage your instructors tQ do the same.
It's not that students arent listened to but in the words of E.R. 
Steinberg, If I saw indications that three-fourths of the H&SS faculty 
dont approve of it, / would certainly go to the council............to consider

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973
The Graduate students' art show on exhibit
- through October 5th in the C-MU Stu
dents' Gallery at 5200 Forbes Avenue: 
paintings, drawings, sculpture and crafts by 
students in the M.F.A. program in painting 
and sculpture. Gallery hours: Wed., Fri., 
Sat. 11:30 am-5:30 pm, Tues., Thurs. 
j 11:30 am-8:00 pm.
I C-MU Art Gallery - anyone interested in
working at the Gallery, (hanging shows, 
making posters, sales) please leave a note at 
the Skibo Information Desk for Michael 
Conrad or Deborah Hallam. Anyone 
interested in having a show this semester 
should likewise leave a note at Skibo 
Information Desk.
Pittsburgh Organization for Childbirth
Education will run a Public Meeting Thurs
day, October 11, 1973 at 8 pm. in Scaife 
Hall Auditorium, DeSoto Street in Oak
land. Speakers include A.S. Runco, pedia
trician and Karen McQuaid, speaking on 
mothering. Film featured will be "The 
Story of Eric". For information about 
POCE activities, write P.O. Box 10480, Pit
tsburgh 15234, or call 221-3066.
Artist Fran Schoemaker will display her
paintings in a show called "New Images" at 
the First Unitarian Church, Morewood & 
Ellsworth. Paintings are play on color and 
display sensitive use of acrylics. Show will 
run from Sept. 23 to October 24. Gallery 
hours are week days, 9:00 to 4:00 pm. and 
12 to 1:00 pm. Sundays.
Barbara Gittings, gay activist for 14 years
and coordinator of Task Force on Gay Lib 
of American Library Association will speak 
at 12 noon in Skibo Ballroom on Friday 
September 28. Free admission and open to 
the public.
Courses in Pittsburgh on Women's Studies:
Details may be obtained from Dr. Joan N. 
Burstyn, Office of Teacher Education, 
Baker Hall 239, or from any departmental 
office.
There will be a free lecture on practice of
transcendental meditation on Wednesday, 
September 26 at 8:00 pm. in Scaife Hall 
Auditoruim at CMU.
National Science Foundation Fellowships
will be awarded for study or work leading 
to master's or doctoral degrees in the 
mathematical, physical, medical, biological, 
engineering, and social sciences, and the 
history and philosophy of science. Those 
eligible to apply will be college seniors or 
first year graduate students this Fall; 
eligibility is limited to individuals who by 
Fall 1974 will have completed not more 
than one year of full or part time graduate 
level study. Applicants must be citizens of 
the U.S. and will be judged on ability. 
Applicants will be required to take the 
GRE's which are administered by the 
Educational Testing Service and will be 
given on December 8, 1973 at designated 
centers throughout the U.S. The deadline 
date for submission of applications for 
NSF Graduate Fellowships is November 
26, 1973. Further information and
application materials may be obtained 
from the Fellowship Office, National 
Research Council, 2101 Constitution 
Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418
A ten day art tour of Paris and parts of
Italy is proposed by Professor R.B. 
Beaman, Department of Painting and 
Scuplture. The group is to leave New York 
on December 26th for Paris (via Luxem
burg), on to Rome, Florence, Ravenna, 
Venice, Padua briefly, Milano, Paris and 
back to New York on January 6th. Anyone 
seriously interested in this trip should send 
name and address to Professor Beaman 
now, C.F.A., P&S, for receipt of the final 
plan and cost.
Saturday, September 22 GAP will sponsor
Concert/Dance at First Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Ave. Featuring 
live rock band. Two one hour shows at 9 
pm. and 11:30 pm. Admission price $2.00 
good for both shows, paid at the door.
The Fall Luncheon-Lecture series on Per
spectives on the Jews of Eastern Europe 
starts Monday, September 24 at noon in 
the Hillel Library, 3rd floor of the Y-ICK 
Building, 315 S. Bellefield St. It is spon
sored by B'nai Brith Hillel-Jewish Universi
ty Center. Professor Bernard Weiss of Duquesne University will speak on "The Set
ting." Cost for Lunch is $.75.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
announces a lunch and lecture series on 
PERSPECTIVES ON THE JEWS OF 
EASTERN EUROPE every Monday at 
noon. Cost for lunch is $.75. On October 
1, Professor Milton Sussman of Duquesne 
University will speak on "The Aftermath 
of the Holocaust".
Rosh Hashanah Services, sponsored by
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center, will be held in Skibo ballroom on 
Wednesday, September 26 at 8:00 p.m. 
Thursday and Friday services will be held 
at 10:00 a.m. in the 2nd floor Rogal Room 
in the Y-IKC building at 315 Belief ield St. 
Board of Trustees Committee-five 
interested concerned and hard working 
students are needed to serve on the five 
Trustee Committees, which are Building & 
Grounds, Developement & Planning, Edu
cational Affairs, Student Affairs and Bud
get & Finance. Please contact Tanya 
Allmond in Skibo 103.
B'nai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
offers free Yiddish and Hebrew classes. Call 
621-8875 tor details or to register.
Do you like to bowl? Do you have friends
/vho like to bowl? Who not form a team? 
/ou don't have to be an expert. If you like 
to have fun you can participate in CMU 
Intramural bowling. Rosters are due Oc
tober 16, so you've got plenty of time to 
get f,ive or more people together. Blank 
osters and further details in the Gymnaium I.M. Office.
Attention: All Varsity lettermen. There
will be a meeting of the-Varsity C-Clubon 
Thursday, September 20 at 7:30 pm. in 
Breed Hall (of the Margaret Morrison 
Building). Your attendance will be greatly 
appreciated.
V student-faculty Sabbath will be held
Friday, September 21. Worship at 6:30 
pm. in the Rogal Room on the 2nd floor of 
the Y-ICK Building, 315 S. Bellefield St. 
Dinner is at 7:15 in the B'nai Brith Hillel 
library, 3rd floor of Y-ICK Building. 
Dinner is $2.75 by reservation, 621-8875.
A student-faculty mixer sponsored by
B'nai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
will be held from 2-4 pm. in the Skibo 
Faculty Dining Room. Refreshments will 
be served.
Student Representative to C-MU Parking
Committee - anyone interested please con
tact Tanya Allmond in Skibo 103.
Spring Carnival Chairmananyone
interested please contact Tanya Allmond in 
Skibo 103.
Lunch is served from 11:30 to 1:30
Monday through Thrusday at Cafe Tel Aviv 
in the B'nai Brith Hillel Dining Room at 
315 S. Bellefield St. It is sponsered by 
B'nai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center. 
Cost varies with the meal served.
HATHA YOGA
PHYSICAL POSTURES 
CONCENTRATION, MEDITATION 
6 OCLOCK, TUESDAY
ROOM 45 SKIBO
. SEPTEMBER 25th
SANDY CHILCOTER, INSTRUCTOR
BNAI B RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 1973 
FOR FACULTY AND THEIR FAMILIES 
FOR STUDENTS OF ALL THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES
ROSH HASHANAH
WEDNESDA Y Sept. 26 8:00 P.M. Ball Room-SKIBO*
THURSDAY Sept. 27 10:00A.M. RogalRoom-Y-IKC**
(KIDDUSH FOLLO WING MORNING SER VICE)
FRIDAY Sept. 28 10:00 A.M. Rogal Room-Y-IKC**
* Skibo - Student Union of Carnegie-Mellon U. off Forbes Ave. 
on the C.M.U. Campus
**Y-IKC Bldg., 315 S. Bellfield Ave. (opposite Heinz Chapel)
ALL WELCOME
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL 621-8875
Pick up your Film Arts semester or year
ticket at Skibo Information Desk. The 
semester ticket is $4.50 and the year is 
$8.00. This is a new and exciting 
series-don't miss out!
CIT College Council-any CIT junior, sopho
more or freshman interested in serving on 
this council please contact Tanya Allmond 
in Skibo 103.
CLASSIFIED AOS
Organizations: Sell Costume jewelery on
consignment. Make Money. Call 441-2290.
Wanted: Babysitter. Week-ends plus 2 week
nights. Call for details, 681-5757.
For Rent: Single room in beautiful
townhouse apartment for male or female. 5 
minute walk to CMU and Pitt. Call 
687-0023 and ask for Rick, Scott, Marion. 
Lost: One gold ring. Initials SLJ. Call
621-0216.
PERSONALS
Dear Anna,
Once again into the news.
Once again in vain.
The question on my mind is this:
Is it one way or two-lane?
Yes, what a tangled web we weave,
When loving two or more,
One too possessive, one too aggressive.
And one with a passion for floors.
Well, it's all behind me now, my dear,
I'll never again be such a tease.
We'll have a long, loving life together.
Free from social disease.
Carl
RUGS
for less
with your 10 Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
S15 S19 $29 S49
also: 6*9'*, 12x12', 12x15', le. 
Alto: Arto Rugt (orientali, thogt, 
ole.,
CHASES
5426 Walnut St., Shadysid
DA It Y: 1040 a.m. - t.-OO p.m. 
SATURDAY: 1*00 a.m. - 3 00 p.m. 
11-I1S 

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973-Page 5
Project FM is Underway
by Tom Kendig
WRCT, after months of hard work and 
waiting, has finally received a permit from 
the Federal Communications Commission 
allowing them to have a FM transmitter 
and antenna sent to and erected on the 
C-MU campus. The transmitter which was 
prebuilt and set to broadcast at 88.3 MHz 
was shipped two weeks ago on the arrival 
of the FCC permit. If all goes according to 
plan the station should be broadcasting FM 
by Thanksgiving.
WRCT has long rumored they were 
going to be broadcasting FM. They spent 
the major part of last year writing the 
approximately 100 page application needed 
to file for an FM broadcasting license. The 
permit they received is for a class D 
educational non-commercial FM station. 
The regulation for such a station does not 
allow WRCT to have any kind of 
commercials which means they will not be 
able to use the ABC news wire as they did 
previously. They will instead use the ABC 
wire for information and quotes for their 
own news. This means the WRCT news 
department headed by Sue Zimmerman, 
will now have to increase in size and 
responsibility.
According to Frank Napoli, general 
manager of WRCT, the transmitter-antenna 
has been shipped and will be erected 30 feet 
above Skibo when it finally arrives. This, 
along with the increase from the present 
low power AM to the 10 watts FM, will 
make the range of the signal between 5-7 
miles, depending on conditions. This is a 
large improvement over the existing range 
which barely extends throughout the area 
of the campus.
Student government is footing the bill. 
for the new equipment. The change over 
should cost around $2,000 including the 
cost of the transmitter and antenna. The 
station plans to pay Student Government some 
$1,000 from the resale of the AM equipment. 
Student government is also paying most of 
the bill for the UPI teletype which will be a 
part of the new WRCT news system. The 
TARTAN, through its participation in the 
C-MU News System, a program of co
operation between the two news depart
ments, will also be sharing in the expense
and use of the teletype. WRCT will alsv 
continue to have use of the ABC news wire 
free of charge.
Because WRCT will be broadcasting bM 
under a FCC license, regulations require 
the D.J. to have at least a 3rd class FCC 
Radio and Telephone license with broad
casting endorsement. There are at present 
about 15 staff members with the proper 
license. As more people pass the FCC test 
the number of qualified personnel should 
double.
Behind the sound of WRCT. 
community. People at the University of 
Pittsburgh and Duquesne as well as people 
as far away as downtown Pittsburgh will 
now be listening. WRCT is aware of this 
added responsibility and is tackling it with 
a new concept called educational radio. 
Mitchell Greenburg, educational
programming director, is presently
planning shows that cover everything from 
talk shows to dramatic readings of con
temporary theatrical works. Terry 
Caywood, program director, has some 
innovative ideas of his own. Upon broad
casting on the FM Band, Terry is planning 
to start a Saturday show called
Spectrum where for 3 or 4 hours 
complete albums will be aired.
If you compare, 
you'll select Etna...
If you dont compare, 
dont say we didnt warn you!
Nancy Leib
281-9000
The /Etna College Plan...
Life Insurance for students
>Etna Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Connecticut
UFE & CASUALTY
THE CRUMBLING WALL COFFEE HOUSE
4515 FORBES AVENUE
FRIDAY EVENINGS - 9:00 fo 1:00
Poetry, Drama, Folk Music, etc.
Problems, Anyone?
by David Bush
A piggy bank contains only quarters, 
dimes, nickels and pennies. The number of 
coins of each denomination is prime. How 
many dimes does the bank contain if the 
average value of a randomly selected coin is 
an odd number of cents?
Answer to last weeks problem: The first 
player should win. Let the 9 triangles of 
the figure be numbered as follows:
Let the notation for a move simply be a 
string of digits corresponding to the 
triangles crossed in that move (e.g. the 
move shown would have the notation 
2348.) The winning first move is 7 (or 2 or 
4). Here are some continuations: 1st player 
7, 2nd player 1; 1st player 9, 2nd-2; 1st 
player 46, 2nd 5; 1 st-38. 7,1; 5,3; 9,6; 248. 
7,2; 4,3; 68,1; 95. 7,3; 5689,24; 1. 7,9; 
6234,5; 18. Some losing continuations for 
the first player: 13,6784; 25,9. 1,56; 4,9; 
,327.
Phys-Cale  
Moores Brainchild
by Chip Yeager
Upperclassmen in CIT-MIS, accustomed 
to the giant Physics-Calculus classes of past 
years, would be surprised to learn of the 
single daily lecture now offered to entering 
freshmen. This year, only 25% of CIT-MIS 
freshmen take the combination course, 
with the remainder taking separate Physics 
and Calculus classes. For the previous five 
years, all freshmen not awarded advanced 
placement in physics of calculus were as
signed to it. The change was made largely 
because of student discontent with the pro
gram in the past.
The program began some six years ago 
as the brainchild of Professor Richard 
Moore, now head of the Mathematics de
partment at MIS. According to Moore, the 
idea for a combined course was self-generated. He remarked that only one other 
college he knew of, Amherst, offered a 
similar program. Information from that in
stitution, though, did not affect CMUs 
program in any way; the course was de
signed within our math and physics depart
ments, which then revised it yearly. (One 
important change introduced the present 
use of two separate textbooks for the 
courses, one for physics and one for calcu
lus. The original textbook, according to Dr. 
William Oosterhuis, tended to introduce 
new topics too fast.)
Oosterhuis, who taught the Physics por
tion of the course until this year, remarked 
that finding the right pace for his stu
dents was one major problem in the 
beginning. And a common fear among sev
eral professors was, in Dr. Moores words, 
the feeling that we might have been de-. 
stroying some of the more poorly prepared 
students. Apparently, given the wide var
iety of mathematics experience among en
tering freshmen, one course could not satis
factorily teach both advanced students and 
stragglers. Yet that one course, Phys-Calc, 
handled 75% of all incoming engineering 
and science students, and 100% of those 
not awarded advanced placement.
A glance at grades of past Phys-Calc 
students, according to Moore, would indi
cate the faults with the concept of the 
course. The average of the grades was not
unusually low. Still, closer inspection re
vealed that a large body of students did 
poorly while another large group did very 
well. These two groups balanced each other 
to give the program the appearance of suc
cess. And all the while, many students 
complained against the course even as they 
Dassed it.
For this reason, a decision was mat e 
with (in Moores words) the greatest r - ' 
luctance. to back off, because it seeme 1 t 
the course was doing more harm tha c 
good. This semester, enrollment in separate 
physics and calculus courses was boosted 
to 50% of the total freshmen in CIT-MIS, 
with the courses elevated to the status of a 
full option for entering students.
New Guidelines determine who will taK e 
which option. All students assigned to 
Phys-Calc meet the condition that they 
have had some calculus in high school, 
under new criteria. (How much calculus 
experience some represents remains un
defined; Dean Kail stated that no minimum 
has been adopted. The new program is sup
posedly flexible enough to allow, for exam
ple, a Calculus II student to drop out and 
join the less severe Phys-Calc course early 
in the semester, if he feels lost.) Students 
with no experience in calculus will take 
separate physics and calculus courses, while 
fresmhen earning advanced placement, 
about 25% of the total, are assigned to 
Calculus A.
Despite all these changes, the general 
feeling at Science Hall is that Phys-Calc is 
here to stay. Professor Richard MacCamy. 
who has played a large role in the program, 
believes that the Phys-Calc concept is still 
valid. He comments that the program still 
serves a purpose, to show to CIT-MIS stu
dents what mathematics is really for as far 
as engineering is concerned. MacCamy does 
not, however, rule out the possibility that 
the program will be phased out. Professor 
Moore remarked that he has assigned more 
faculty this year to Phys-Calc than in past 
years and hopes to find reason to increase 
enrollment in the future, if not to pre-1973 
levels. Moore also feels that all the bugs 
that beset the program in past years are 
gone, many of them due to the large and 
varied classes the instructors had to work 
with.
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT ORDER or START NOW 
HAND FASHIONED GIFTS 
for the HOLIDAYS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973
OTHER GRIEVANCES REMAIN
Operations Reopens 
Staff Cafeteria
by Debbie Siegel
Last Wednesday, Food Service reopened 
the staff cafeteria in response to com
plaints from staff over being forced to eat 
in Kiltie Cafe, the student dining hall in 
Skibo. From 11:30 to 1:00. the staff 
cafeteria will be open and serving a choice 
of soup, sandwich, salad, dessert, and one 
casserole from the menu of the Kiltie Cafe. 
But the cafeteria closing was only the latest 
of a long list of staff grievances.
(The term staff* at C-MU includes a 
diverse group of people including clerical 
workers, secretaries, lab technicians, super
visors of clerical, and professional admin
istrators such as the Director of Student 
Activities.)
Frank Colosimo, operations ombuds
man. polled 125 staff people on the 
cafeteria issue; 121 of them disliked the 
closing. The problem originated in 
decisions made this summer.
Traditionally, the staff cafeteria closes 
when the students depart in May. The 
newly appointed food service Director, Ms. 
Rita Cohen, decided in conjunction with 
Dr. Rutledge, Chief Officer of Operations, 
that the staff cafeteria would not re-open 
this semester. The kitchen has undergone 
changes in management and Ms. Cohen has 
changed procedures in order to increase 
efficiency throughout food service.
Keeping the staff cafeteria closed cut down 
on labor costs and was a test to see if the 
staff could get along without the staff 
cafeteria.
The result was tremendous lines in the 
Kiltie Cafe, providing a hassle for the 
student or secretary with only an hour for 
lunch. Petitions were circulated to request 
that it be re-opened. Few staff chose to eat 
in the faculty dining hall, though Colosimo 
explains that Operations had expected that 
most would; apparently many did not 
believe they were permitted to.
Organizing to express grievances is a 
problem for staff. Unionization would 
divide the staff from its bosses. At present, 
a staff council remains the staff s voice in 
negotiations with Dr. Cyert, to be con
ducted later this semester. Items on the 
complaint list include:
PensionsAn employee on the staff of 
C-MU who earns $500 per month and 
retires after twenty years of service only 
receives his or her social security entitle
ment and is not entitled to any 
additional pension from the university. 
Ironically, anyone who worked for 
Mellon Institute prior to its merger with 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
receives retirement benefits. 
Communication For example, for 
years there allegedly was never a good 
handbook explaining policy for the
The staff cafeteria--open once again.
Photo by Elliot Arons
staff. When there was an attempt to 
write a book, the staff were never asked 
for their opinions until they complained 
and asked to participate in writing it. 
Promotions Staff feel that the job 
evaluation program is minimal. They 
complain that C-MU does not make a 
strong enough effort to promote froip 
within. The staff council has requested 
that job advertisements be posted on 
campus for five days before they are 
published off campus. Staff members 
must now find information by reading it 
in the city papers instead of hearing it 
from within.Make that big day inyotir life two big days.
( iollege graduation (lav. Il can also lx 
the <lav when you gel vour commission as an 
Arinv officer. It hap|x-ns when von takeAi mv R() l ('.
Army R( )T( ! can |>ul an extra edge 
on vour college education. Iv stivili von 
executive and leadershipexjx-rience l ight on 
campus. Iv ^iviii" von SUM) a monili, up to ten 
months a vear. vour last two vears of the pro
gram. 15\ giving vou the chance to serve as an
officer, on active duty or in a Reserve 
com|x>nent.
Army R()TC can mean a lot of things 
to a lot of people. But on the day you graduate 
college it will mean one very big thing to you. 
You'll not only have your college diploma, 
you'll also have your commission as an Army 
officer.
Army RO I C'.. The more you look at it, 
the better it !<x>ks.
Flaherty Fired
continued from page 1
was for a long time a next door neighbor to 
a judge, and I know ... (a judges) time 
would be taken up with other matters.
The instructors in the evening school at * 
GSIA are generally employed at full time, 
non-academic jobs during the day.
Deckmann explained he had found a 
replacement, Kenneth Morris of the law 
division at Westinghouse, who had 
excellent credentials and filled the bill 
very nicely, and said he was afraid Morris 
would be snapped up by some other area 
university if C-MU did not hire him * 
quickly.
Asked if he had had any quarrels with 
Flaherty over teaching or administration, 
Deckmann refused to answer. I wouldnt 
share that with you if I had. In order to 
administer a group of men (like those who 
teach the evening school) effectively ... I 
cant publicly discuss disputes...
Deckmann said his boss, Tom Kerr, < 
head of the department of Administration 
and Management Sciences, knew he was 
first signing up Morris and then dismissing 
Flaherty. I consulted with Tom Kerr in 
this case ... he was certainly supportive 
(of the handling of the matter) ... We even 
had a dinner meeting with the new man. 
Deckmann described Morris as the kind of 
guy who can make a strong appeal to the i 
business type of guys we train in the 
evening school.
According to Kerr, the change was made 
after Deckmann convinced him it was a 
matter of substituting a man with law and 
business administration degrees for a man 
with only a law degree.
Flahertys teaching was apparently very 
popular with students. The TARTAN < 
selected at random the Fall 1972 edition of 
the A Phi O Faculty-Course Evaluation. 
Students polled by A Phi O gave Flaherty 
4.43 out of 5.00 points on overall quality 
of teaching, the second highest score in the 
AMS department. Flaherty received the 
highest scores in AMS on the questions, 
In general, how would you rate this 
course? and Did you enjoy this 1
course?, 4.27 and 4.48 respectively. The 
course was Law in Modern American 
Society.
In addition to teaching the scheduled 
course, Flaherty worked with 8 to 10 
C-MU pre-law majors, taking them to 
observe court proceedings and giving them 
experience working on actual briefs.
Flaherty was noted for donating ,
generous amounts of his time to student 
organizations. He explained he regarded 
working with them as a kind of hobby. His 
extracurricular activities on campus in
cluded incorporating Student Govern
ment, serving as legal counsel to the new 
corporation, and helping WRCT apply to 
the FCC for its FM license. He performed 
these services for free. Recently he ,
represented the United Fraternal 
Organization in negotiating a new contract 
with C-MU housing; he also incorporated 
three of the fraternities. He explained that 
his work with these organizations would 
have had to end anyway if he assumes the 
judgeship, since judges are prohibited from 
practicing law.
Flaherty says he isnt sure why C-MU 
got rid of him. I asked Deckmann for a 
reason but he didnt give me any... I 
really enjoyed C-MU, particularly working 
with students, with whom I admit I felt a 
kind of identification.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973Page 7
mr
continued from page 2 
Editor:
I would like to draw attention to two 
typos in the admirable story by Amy 
Reitmeyer on the College of Fine Arts 
(TARTAN, September 18, 1973). The two 
figures I gave regarding the total estimated 
cost of the proposed Drama building and 
the amount available at the time a decision 
was made not to proceed with the project 
in the Summer of 1972 were respectively 
$10,000,000 and $2,500,000. It appears 
that a zero was missing from each one of 
the figures.
Thank you.
Akram Midani 
Dean, College of Fine Arts
future alumni, then we can expect similar 
wastes of perfectly good money: on memo
rial stopsigns in Baker Hall, bronze plaques 
dedicated to old friends in the dormitories, 
statues erected in the middle of the cut, 
etc. It has always been a dream of mine to 
erect a larger-than-life human ass over the 
toilet bowl in front of Margaret Morrison, 
that would plop neon fecal matter into a 
aeon sea, at night. Picture it illuminated at 
light by floodlights.
But $67,000.00 for the lobby, so the 
alumni can walk through the lobby, diggin 
on all those Krazy Kollege Kidz? I think 
theyre sick and have a lot of nerve, and its 
a perfect example of good money gotten 
into the wrong hands.
Tom Davis
Dear Camegie-Mellon:
To The Editor of the TARTAN, and all 
alumni who can read:
Im not in school this year; Im working 
to make tuition money for next year.
But I couldnt Wait to write this letter 
and tell you how breathlessly Im waiting 
for next fall so I can play on the redesigned 
lobby in Skibo.
Profanity aside, if the alumni did this to 
show the students their responsibility as
Theres a new look on the CMU campus. 
Its called filth.
You can see it in the ladies rooms. I can 
see it in the mens rooms. We can see it in 
the corridors of Doherty Hall.
Last year, Dr. Cyert said something about having to put up with a longer lawn. I 
wouldnt mind a longer lawn. Whats 
happened to the green lawns of CMU? 
Theyve starved. Some of us happen to like 
grass.
I remember a day last year when we
accidentally flooded out a lab in Science 
Hall. It was then discovered that even our 
Department Head was not allowed access 
to mop closets. Now, it appears, even the 
custodians arent either-those who still 
have their jobs.
We can't clain that the Administrations 
playing favorites. Even Warner Hall has its 
problems; or are the burned out light bulbs 
part of our effort to save the environment?
I remember a time last year when every
one was complaining that we were being 
nickled and dimed to death: parking 
fees, service charge, etc. None of us rea
lized what Phase Two was going to be.
Lets stop looking at the dirt for a 
moment and look at the rest of the Univer
sity. Like the dorms. If you can squeeze in. 
This year. Or the classes . . .
Notice how the Faculty seems to be 
aging so rapidly? Its a little like Newtons 
Law: Whatever is down must go out. 
(Ask any untenured Professor).
Since I arrived at Carnegie, Ive seen 
over one-third of my Department get out, 
one way or another; not always when the 
going was good. These were certainly not 
rats, but they knew when the ship was 
being sunk.
Jake Warner commented last year that 
activisms at an all time low. With the 
present decline in morale accelerating, I 
think hell see a change, as students 
actively fail to return.
Even the staff, our forgotten section, is 
losing out. Whatever happened to the
active voice that they seemed to be finding 
last year?
But Carnegie-Mellons accounting is 
finally showing black. Amazing!
Lets all cheer, Fightin for the glory of 
Camegie-Mellon.
As we walk down to use the library 
resources in Oakland . . . Undergrads: just 
try to take a book out at Hillman. Remem
ber? Thats why (we were told) CMU 
didnt have to worry about its low library 
budget.
Actually, you may get paid for that 
visit. One of our Deans has suggested that, 
as a cure to the library problem, each de
partment should pay a student to go to the 
Carnegie Library and borrow books that a 
Professor requests. (No, it wasnt a Science 
Dean.)
Remember our yearbook? It was called 
the THISTLE. But how many know what 
the Beaux Arts Ball was? You see, even the 
Student Government gets to lend a hand.
Actually, I sincerely believe that Dr. 
Cyert is concerned with the problems of 
Camegie-Mellon. But please look out of 
your window, sir. See how many faces are 
gone this year; how many of our friends 
didnt bother returning. See for yourself, 
that, despite our huge freshman class, total 
enrollment is down this year.
1 think we all know why.
Dave Weintraub 
Student Senate Committee for Academic Affair
Student Representative, Faculty Senate
POSTER THEFT 
A Reason for Mutilation?
Music Dept. Gets New Head
continued from page 1
In lieu of its annual expenditure on 
Community Radio Spots, the C-MU 
Activities Board decided to hire the Uni
versity Design Service to design and handle 
the printing of all their posters. After 
spending between $300 and $400 for each 
design, the AB decided to have each poster 
slashed!
The mutilation was an effort to prevent 
the theft of these posters. Because of the 
large deficit in the Activities Board budget 
last year, it is their primary responsibility 
to break even on this years expenses. In 
order to accomplish this, it is important, 
according to an AB source, that the stu
dents be aware of AB events in order to sell 
out the house. It is thus important that the 
posters stay up until the advertised event is 
over. The reasoning behind the ABs action 
was to make the posters undesirable to 
steal, yet keep the students informed.
Janusz Einhorn, the designer of many of 
the AB posters including the silver foiled 
Kool and the Gang poster, was shocked 
that the AB was practising Legal Van
dalism. Mr. Einhorn stated his concern for 
the poster as an art form, saying that a 
typographical announcement would 
suffice if AB is simply concerned with 
disseminating information. It was also 
pointed out that the Activities Board was 
defeating its own purpose by spending 
large sums of money to produce attractive 
posters and then destroying them.
In a meeting between the TARTAN, 
Einhorn and an AB representative it was 
decided that the Design Service and the AB 
could work out a solution for hanging the 
posters in such a way as to prevent theft 
without damaging the poster and thus its 
aesthetic value. It was also decided to 
publicize the fact that students are wel
come to all Activities Board posters after 
the events are over and can even request
copies at the Skibo Information Desk. The 
AB will institute this distribution of 
posters if it finds that its posters do stay up 
until their event. Student Cooperation is 
requested, since it is their own recreation 
that they will be hurting if the AB does not 
survive.
A B INRE
continued from page 1
will pay the $2071 lost when that group 
cancelled an appearance here last year. But 
according to Ira Picker, Director of AB, 
there is slim chance of getting the 
money back. The Byrds disbanded one 
week before they were scheduled to appear 
at CMU. McCurdy feels that AB could ul
timately get the money, but said, The 
Student Senate has never chosen to pursue 
a breach of contract suit.
The AB blames most of the concert 
losses on bad ticket pricing, expensive 
radio advertising, and cancellations by 6 
performing groups. To prevent further 
deficits, ticket prices will rise 50 cents. 
Also, the AB plans to draw up a new 
standard contract. The new contract will 
have a built in cancellation clause: if the 
performers do not sign the contract and 
return a copy to the AB within three 
weeks, the ABs offer is automatically 
cancelled.
The Finance Committee, after an exten
sive review of the ABs books, has decided 
to wait until after the Homecoming con
cert (November 2) to reevaluate ABs 
budget. Questioned about' the coming 
audit, Picker repsonded, Its a logical deci
sion and the type of thing we were going to 
do anyway on our own. If people dont 
want to see concerts why should we bother 
putting them on?
the attention of his colleagues in the 
'College of Fine Arts, and of the administra
tion when he adamantly opposed the 
proposal to relocate the Music Department 
in the Mellon Institute building. Dr. Harth 
bluntly stressed the inadequate class and 
practice room space of the Music depart
ment in the Fine Arts building; he felt that 
the MIS move would not solve the Music 
Departments need for expanded facilities.
Dr. Harths interest in the position of 
conductor-concertmaster is easily under
stood. A nationally known violinist, he 
served as concertmaster with the Chicago 
Symphony Orchestra and the Louisville 
Orchestra before coming to C-MU in 1964.
Leich said that the unanticipated shift 
of command has not disrupted operations 
within the Music Department. According 
to Leich, the Departments largest unre
solved issue is the amount of space that 
Dean Midani will allocate for the Depart
ment in Margaret Morrison building. The 
Music Department fears that it will beRyan Award
continued from page 1
established between himself and his stu
dents has been a central reason for the high 
esteem the students hold for him.
The announcement of the selection of 
Mr. Olds, a faculty member of the College 
of Fine Arts since 1965, was made 
yesterday by Richard M. Cyert at a faculty 
meeting. Olds has exhibited in over thirty 
shows and has won various awards. Aside 
from his teaching and his professional work 
he is director of the Hewlett Gallery on 
campus, and serves on departmental 
college, and University committees. Known 
to his students as Herb Olds, he generates 
an unmatched excitement for texture and 
detail. The Ryan Award Committee regards 
him as an unusual person, for he com
bines the intensive preoccupation of a 
creative person and the compassion of a 
devoted teacher. His relationship to his
crucially strained this year because it has 
registered the largest freshman class of 
music majors ever admitted to C-MU.
Dr. Leich explicitly stated that he will 
serve as the acting head of the Music 
Department only until a search committee 
can find an acceptable candidate to take 
the job permanently.
Dean Midani, chairman of the search 
committee, has selected the committees 
student representative, Paul Dworak, and a 
consulting professor from outside of the 
Fine Arts College. Dr. James Langer. Dr. 
Langer is the associate dean of MIS; Paul 
Dworak is a graduate student and electrical 
engineer who has experimented with 
musical compositions arranged by a 
computer. The faculty of the Music 
Department has chosen the other members 
of the committee: Harry Franklin. Helen 
Gossard, Dr. Leich, Richard Strange, and 
Donald Williams. The committee will 
attempt to compile a list of final 
candidates in January.
students is always characterized by both 
love and respect.
Established in 1961 by a $10,000 gift 
from William H. Ryan, a 1925 graduate of 
C-MU, and his wife, Frances S. of 
Sacremento, the Ryan Award is presented 
annually to a member of the undergraduate 
faculty.
Professors who have won the certific e 
and honorarium in the past include: l:< J 
Sochatoff, English; Borden Hoover, 
Mathematics; Samuel Rosenberg, Painting 
and Design; Edwin Fenton, History; Hugh 
Young, Physics; Robert Rothfus, Chemical 
Engineering; Oleta Benn, Music; Beekman 
Cottrell, English; Richard Moore, Mathe
matics; James Korn, Psychology; Robert 
Dunlap, Mettalurgy and Gladys Schmitt, 
English.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973
ADVERTISEMENT
i
' / 
1
-
MlDeckmann tcDEDob
Young Women Exposed 
to Changing Directions
I tie issue the Oaklojnd
is now on sale at 
CMU BooWstot~e C 
Ski bo ln|brmaHor\ Dcslc 
~Poctry t Short Rc-fcion  ID^anact f 
"R^Oiev^s , ^Photcgr^aphs  Aritfork. 
^blaolc  vohrtc) arc naif beir>gr accepted 
-for*-the next issue Fall j3 Submit
na(\v^uSGAri p*t & to
Oakland T^vicvtfMailbox 
C^lish OflpiU-2ncl floor 3H
Or mai I to
Oakland Review 
% ^eorgie EVaos 
TO Box 733f,~Figh.^152.13 
Ms. must include return ps"fcc^re .
Its Up To You: A Conference on 
NonTraditional Careers for Women will 
be held at CMU on Friday evening, Sep
tember 28, and all day Saturday, Septem
ber 29.
The conference, sponsored by CMU, the 
Ford Motor Company Fund, and the Hen
ry C. Frick Educational Commission, will 
consist of workshops, films, and tours of 
the Carnegie-Mellon engineering and 
science facilities.
The conference was organized to pro
vide information concerning employment 
opportunities in non-traditional fields to 
young women at a point early enough in 
their high school years for them to sche
dule the courses necessary for entering 
these fields. Although high school guidance 
counselors can and do provide some career 
information, the conference aims to pro
vide a broader base.
On Friday evening, following a dinner 
for the twelve invited speakerswomen 
from a wide variety of occupational spec
ializations, lifestyles, and chronological 
agesan informal workshop session with 
interested CMU women students will take 
place. Spouses of the married speakers have 
been invited to attend and participate in
the discussion concerning their attitudes 
about their wives as career women in nontraditional fields.
The Saturday morning portion of the 
conference will begin with a brief keynote 
address by Sister Jane Scully, President of 
Carlow College, an educator influential in 
the changing direction of womens educa
tion. Approximately 250 to 300 tenth and 
eleventh grade high school women from 
Pittsburgh and the surrounding area have 
been invited. Following Sister Scullys ad
dress the high school women will attend 
two of six 45 minute workshops. Each of 
these workshops will be led by two of the 
invited women professionals. Their presen
tations will include information dealing 
with the problems and satisfactions of be
ing women in these non-traditional fields.
Following a lunch break, the high 
school women may participate in: tours of 
CMUs engineering and science facilities; 
the showing of three films of interest to 
women,Growing Up Female, Sometimes I 
Wonder Who I Am, and Anything You 
Want to Be; and informal conversation 
with the mornings speakers, and with available CMU women in science, 
engineering, business, and management.
MDC Holds Elections
Elections for representatives to the 
Mens Dormitory Council will be held this 
evening (Tuesday, September 25) from 
9-11 p.m. Ballots will be distributed 
individually to residents in their rooms by 
election supervisors. Residents who have 
not received ballots by 10:30 p.m. should 
see the appropriate person from the 
following list:
Donner Hall, A-Level-Rick Donner, 218 
Donner
Donner Hall, 1st & 2nd floor-Sam Enns, 
A-25 Donner
Donner Hall, 3rd floor-Rick Donner, 218 
Donner
Hammerschlag House, A-Wing-Mark Firley 
Hammerschlag House, B-Wing-Steve 
Flanagen, 108 Henderson 
Henderson Hall-Scott Moon, 205 Welch 
McGill Hall-Walter Lute, 307 McGill 
Mo re wood E-Tower, 3rd, 4th, 5 th
Parking System
continued from page 1
representative, Norman Yalenty; and a
student representative, John Banker of
Doherty Graduate House. It is chaired by 
Dr. Ronald Rutledge, Chief of Operations, 
who holds a veto over the other members 
votes. And any recommendations the 
committee makes are not binding on the 
University.
A delegation claiming to represent 75% 
of the residents of Doherty House
complained that they had not been pro
perly informed of parking policy and asked 
that non-residents be banned from the 
Doherty lot because their carelessness 
would endanger small children. The 
committee responded by asking Security to 
halt further sale of Doherty permits to 
non-residents. Taylor promised to do so, 
saying Ill never say I did it, but I will (do 
it).
floors-John Merkel, 404-E
More wood E-Tower, 6th, 7th floors-Mark
Kellner, 524-E
Scobell Hall-Elmer Harkema, 305 Scobell 
Welch Hall-Scott Moon, 205 Welch.
All dorm residents, including freshmen, 
are eligible for election.
Anyone whose name is not already on 
the ballot but wishes to run, should see the 
person responsible for holding the election 
in his area, or one of the following people, 
by 8:30 p.m.:
Bob Linn, President, 321 Donner Hall, 
621-3856
Scott Moon, Vice President, 205 Welch 
Hall, 682-9450
Rick Donner, Secretary, 218 Donner Hall,
682-9252
Walter Lute, Treasurer, 307 McGill Hall,
682-9430.
Ed Simon, chairman of the Carnegie 
Commuter Council of Pittsburgh, asked the 
committee to adopt four recommen
dations: to lower rates, to charge campus 
residents and commuters the same rates 
(currently non-residents must pay the 20% 
city parking tax), to prohibit freshmen and 
sophomores living on campus from keeping 
cars on campus, to reserve spaces 
specifically for commuters, and to 
distribute (in advance of parking 
registration) an explanation of parking 
policies to every potential parker. The 
committee agreed that the University 
should establish equal rates by absorbing 
the 20% tax and that all potential users 
should be notified of parking policies.
And there is a panacea available to 
anyone who is dissatisfied with his present 
parking space, a $240 master permit that 
allows him to park in any school lot. So 
far, 16 people have bought these permits. 
Among them are President Cyert, Provost 
Weber, and Dean of Fine Arts Midani.

---------------------------------------------------

t
THE TARTANTuesday, September 25. 1973Page 9
SUP A Orientation 
A Guide to 
Collaboration
by Tom Lang
On Tuesday, September 4, the newly 
admitted students to the Masters Program 
in the School of Urban and Public-Affairs 
(SUPA) began a massive orientation pro
gram, For three days, they listened to lec
tures, engaged in group exercises and parti
cipated in discussions.
According to Professor Norman Doc 
Johnson, head of the Masters Program, this 
revolutionary mode of orientation pro
vided a group experience. It showed how 
groups work, how people work in groups, 
and how behavior may be modified to get 
more accomplished in the group.
The pace is too fast, the work too 
demanding for any individual to get 
through SUPA. You need collaboration. 
And good collaboration isnt easily achieved because of status, communications, 
division of work, perception and newness 
problems, noted Johnson.
Furthermore, since SUPA prepares its 
students for staff and managerial positions, 
which for the most part operate in the 
public sector, an understanding of the 
dynamics of the group situation is impera
tive. In the public sector, ones success 
has nothing to do with ones idea, but with 
how well the idea is conveyed to the peo
ple you work with. In other words, ones 
relations to people are crucial, stated 
Johnson.
The purpose of the orientation was to 
prepare the students for this necessary col
laboration and present some skills which 
would help them to maximize their own 
behavior in goal-directed groups.
Where to 
Put Whom
by John Craun
During the course of my wonderings I 
have often wondered how a large organiza
tion, Carnegie-Mellon, for instance, decides 
how to allocate its space for offices and 
such. Who decides who gets what office? 
Where will it be? Why? Mr. William Dillon, 
the man in charge of space planning here at 
CMU, was kind enough to tell me how hes 
going about finding answers to these and 
other space use questions.
His program started this summer when, 
with paid student help, a complete survey 
was made of all the space that CarnegieMellon owns. Every room, from adminis
tration and faculty offices down through 
classrooms and labs to the lowliest broom 
closets, was measured and coded by room 
number, department assigned, and a use 
code. All this information was fed to a 
computer which in turn spat out hundreds 
of pages of print-out and answers to ques
tions like How much space is currently 
assigned to Architecture, where is it, and 
what are they doing with it?
Some of the figures the survey came up 
with are rather impressive. Carnegie-Mellon 
currently owns about 300,000 square feet 
of office space alone. (To get an idea of 
that size, imagine a ten foot wide corridor 
about six miles long.) That big corridor 
currently houses about 1750 people, a 
third of whom are faculty, another third 
grad students, and the final third staff, and 
at the current puces for office space in 
Oakland it is worth at least three million
Wif
Fellowship Deadlines Approach
Norm Johnson, "You need collaboration."
The exercises ranged from a crisis deci
sion situation to the Lifo Test, a paperpencil exercise which classified ones beha
vior orientation into supportive, control
ling, conservative, or adaptive categories. 
For the most part, the people agreed with 
the results of this test, noted Johnson.
Nevertheless, the emphasis was not to 
change people but to give them a sense of 
understanding, They were provided with 
the opportunity and skills to see them
selves and to see how others see them, thus 
enabling them to function more effectively 
in the group situation.
This orientation also helped the stu
dents to get better acquainted earlier in the 
year. They had the opportunity to know 
more about each other than their names. 
The program brought out their values and 
orientation-enduring things which bring 
groups together. In addition, as Doc John
son phrased it, the students got a beat or 
themselves.
dollars a year.
Over the summer a survey was also 
made of space planning studies done by 
other universities. Sources such as the 
Higher Education Facilities Inventory and 
Classification Manual, a publication of the 
Western Interstate Commission of Higher 
Education (whew), were consulted, primar
ily to check methods of organizing all the 
information that was being gathered. These 
studies have been done primarily by state 
universities that have to give an exact ac
count of their resource usage to the state 
legislature. The space allocation plans at 
these schools are consequently very strict.
As part of the identification phase of 
the space planning system here, cost esti
mates and immediate need estimates were 
also made. Future phases of the planning 
system will include reviewing present space 
use with the individual department heads, 
developing factors that reflect space needs 
by type of user and factors that reflect 
operating costs, making a complete review 
and classification of facilities by type of 
lighting, wall surfaces, flooring, etc. and 
finally creating a master plan which would 
indicate how the university would best be 
divided to maximize space utilization. The 
whole project is scheduled for completion 
in May, 1974.
There is no need to fear an inflexible 
computerized program emerging from Mr. 
Dillons office that will permanently place 
Phys-Calc lectures in custodial closets. Mr. 
Dillon is well aware that centralization of
ten sacrifices freedom for efficiency and he 
would like to avoid it. As he sees is, space 
allocation will be a political process for the 
next tew years, but wed like to provide 
information which will make logical deciNow is the time to apply for graduate 
fellowships for the academic year 1974-75 
if you are interested in any of the 
following: Churchill, Danforth, Fulbright, 
Marshall, and Rhodes. Applications are 
available in 207 Warner Hall. If you are a 
good student and interested in serious 
study, make an appointment to see Dean 
Milligan, register your interest, and pick up 
an application.
Most prestiguous fellowships as well as 
admission to most graduate schools require 
Graduate Record Examinations. If you 
have not taken them, you must do so on 
October 27, 1973 if you plan to apply for 
the above fellowships. (Fulbright-Hays 
excepted). NOTE: October 9, 1973 is the 
final registration day for the October test. 
Those needing to take the tests later can 
check the schedule in the GRE Bulletin 
available in the office of the Dean of 
Graduate Studies, also on the second floor 
of Warner Hall.
Summaries for special fellowships and 
due dates for applications follow:
CHURCHILL Scholarships in 
Engineering, Mathematics, and Science are 
offered for study at Churchill College, 
Cambridge University, England. Programs 
of study are suited to individual needs. 
Deadline for applications, November 12, 
1973.
DANFORTH FELLOWSHIP FOR 
COLLEGE TEACHING CAREERS
The purpose of the program is to give 
personal encouragement and financial 
support to selected college seniors and 
recent graduates who seek to become 
college teachers, and who are vitally 
interested in relating their educational 
plans to their basic values. Deadline for
nomination is October 15, 1973. 
FULBRIGHT-HAYS FOR GRADUATE 
STUDY OR RESEARCH ABROAD 
According to the policy of the Board of 
Foreign Scholarships, the majority of the 
Fulbright-Hays Grants are reserved for 
advanced graduate students who will be 
engaged in research. However, awards are 
also available for graduating seniors and 
candidates who wish to further their 
careers in the creative and performing arts. 
Language proficiency sufficient to 
communicate with the people of the host 
country is required as well as U.S. citizen
ship. Complete applications must be 
returned to Dean Milligan by October 15, 
1973. NOTE; Registration Forms for 
University Lecturing and Post-doctoral 
Research under the Fulbright-Hays Act are 
also available in 207 Warner Hall. 
MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIPS
Thirty college graduates, men and 
women under 26, are selected annually to 
work as Marshall Scholars for two years for 
further degrees at British universities in a 
wide range of subjects (including the 
sciences and humanities). Applications are 
available in 207 Warner Hall and they must 
be completed and in the regional office in 
Philadelphia not later than October 23,
1973.
RHODES Rhodes scholars will study in 
Oxford University. October 31 is the 
deadline for applying. High scholarship and 
an interest in sports are among the 
eligibility requirements for this outstanding 
award.
General Information on Study Abroad. 
Grants and Fellowships both in the United 
States and Abroad also available in 207 
Warner Hall.
LUTHERAN WORSHIPSUNDAYS
10:45 a.m. - Lutheran Center Chapel, 4515 Forbes Avenue 
6:30 p.m. - Heinz Chapel, Pitt Campus
LIKE TO SINGJOIN
PITTSBURGH BACH CHOIR
NOW PREPARINGBACH'S "MAGNIFICAT"BRITTEN'S "CEREMONY OF CAROLS"
REHEARSALS TUESDAYS 8 P.M.
WINCHESTER-THURSTON SCHOOL,
SHADYSIDE
r\ COMPUTERIZED
v/ I n*nMCDATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITE
DAT AMATI C 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
15213
sions easier to arrive at.
The space planning system has turned 
up at a very appropriate moment. Up until 
now the completion of Science Hall in
sured that office space was available to 
those tho needed it The departments bar
gained among themselves for the choice
locations and that was it. Suddenly, all the 
buildings have filled up, and a department 
must need space badly enough to justify 
taking it from someone else. Many feel that 
this has reached the point where an intelli
gent space planning system could be 
beneficial.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25. 1973
You dont need any line judges to help you measure a great beer. 
You taste it once and you know.
Pabst Blue Ribbon. 
The way beer was meant to he.
Copyright 1973, PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee. Wis, Peoria Heights, III., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973Page 11
entertainment
The Mime Speaks
by Susan N. Klein
We live in an era where the printed 
word, the idiot box blaring, garish movie 
screens and flashy high-stepping musical 
comedies are what we think of as diver
tissement, as entertainment. The art of 
pantomime is a decidedly exclusive one, 
practiced and appreciated by few. Dan 
Kamin, a 1968 C-MU graduate is among 
the few-and-far-between practicing pro
fessional mimes, and hell be giving three 
performances of his one-man show later 
this week at the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Somehow, perhaps because of my 
notions of Chaplin and Marceau, I expect 
all mimes to be delicate wisps of people; 
men five-foot-four weighing about 85 
pounds. Thats how big Marceaus Bip 
always looks to me; in any case I was 
somewhat taken aback when a large and 
lanky person with an endearing air of 
doofyness bopped in and plopped down to 
be interviewed. He began to speak, and 
when a mime speaks you really shut up and 
listen, as if its some sort of special 
function, a special performance this guys 
doing, like Marceau talking on the Carson 
show or Chaplin at the Academy Awards 
two years ago, like hes doing you a favor 
by speaking. Unless, like Dan Kamin, 
youre lucky enough to have a mime like 
Jewel Walker teach and speak to you.
Well, I wasnt in the Drama Depart
ment, I was in Design. But I studied mime 
and movement with Jewel Walker, who is 
wonderful, of course.
I made an easy transition to working 
with mime as a means of self-expression. I 
was varying between being a painter and a 
graphic designer. You have to learn to 
orientate to different energy centers of the 
body when doing mime, as Jewel teaches. 
Being a designer, I had to learn to use my 
trunk rather than my hands.
It was the Great Master, Charlie 
Chaplin, who influenced Dan so pro
foundly at the beginning of his training. He 
would sit enthralled, almost catatonically 
caught up by the genius of Chaplin, the 
perfection of his art.
Hes the best mime Ive ever seen. Most 
mimes recognize that. Chaplin awakened in 
me whatever it was that drove me to seek a 
form for expression.
For a while, Dan was worried, in fact, 
about the influence Chaplin had upon his 
early work.
I just couldnt function, I would walk 
around dazed for weeks after seeing a 
Chaplin film. It was as if I had become a 
part of the movie, like I was up there with 
him.
And I found myself putting Chaplin 
bits into my routines. I was always afraid 
some guy would run backstage and say, 
Ahah! I know where you got that bit 
from! Dan leaned forward, scolded with his 
finger, and scrunched up his wonderfully 
mobile face,' and for a split second, he 
became that imaginary man running 
backstage. We laughed and Dan went on to 
reminisce about his background as a
performer.As a teenager I was into sleight of hand
magic. In magic theres a lot of movement, 
but as the magician theres a secret be
tween you and the audience. I never liked 
that role of the holder of the secret. But in 
mime, yes, theres still illusion, but its an 
illusion of something exposed. And mime 
still retains that magic quality of move
ment.
I mentioned that I was a sucker for 
sleight of hand, and without another word, 
Dan did some swell prestidigitation with 
first one, whoops, five thimbles which galavanted around and did choreography on his 
fingertips, then just as deftly, left his hand 
with the passing of a palm, disappearing 
into a pocket when and how I dont know. 
One of the routines on his program, inci
dentally, is called The Magician.
Film Arts Society
Fellinis Clowns
SEPTEMBER 27
4:30
THURSDAY
7:009:30
DH2210
AVAILABLE AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
I FOR TERR TICKET *4.50 FOR SEMESTER
ALL FILM ARTS SOCIETY FILMS 
CAN BE SEEN AT 75* PER FILM.
Between hitting the road for college 
tours and various legit houses like the Play
house, Dan teaches a couple of classes, and 
would eventually like to start a Childrens 
Mime Theatre Company to be based here 
in Pittsburgh. He sees a renewed interest in 
the art of pantomime as evidenced by the 
mime techniques constantly being used in 
dance and shows like the Pippin of the pen 
of Steve Schwartz, who was a fellow stu
dent at CMU with Dan.
Much of the movement and mime you 
see in Pippin and Godspell couldnt have 
emerged without the influence of Carnegie-Mellon, specifically Jewel Walker. 
Walker studied with Etienne Decroux, and 
I use Decrouxs teaching methods; in fact a 
couple of my students have gone on to 
study with Decroux.
So many other fields use mime tech
niques now, too. I worked at the Childrens 
Rehabilitation Center where we constantly 
called upon aspects of mime. Its used in 
dance therapy all over the world. In fact, 
theres so much cross-feeding going on be
tween the theraputic milieus, the drama and
dance worlds, and even humanistics; 
psychology, the fields of body-language 
reading; its all basically those same ideas 
of effort study, movement continuims.
Dan spoke at length about his work 
with dance therapy, and then spoke about 
pantomime as art itself.
Its the job of the artist to clear a 
pathway to expression within his art form. 
Pantomime as an art form is really a para
dox, the idea of bringing logical forms to 
illogical conclusions, the illusion of some
thing existing. Even the make-up of mime 
is an illusion, making up your face to look 
like a mask, even though it most certainly 
will not be used as a mask.
Dan Kamin the un-tiny mime had spo
ken for an hour and strolled merrily out 
with the same candor with which he had 
spoken. His show is at the Playhouse this 
Friday, September 28th at 8 pm., and Sat
urday the 29th at 2 pm. and 8 pm. You 
can get tickets through Ticketron at Kauf
mans, Gimbels, or Hornes, or just go 
down to the Playhouse box office and 
speak up.
Dan Kamin, 1968 C-MU graduate, who will be performing his one-man mime show this weekend.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973
The Big Bite
by Hank Levy
In his first acting venture since A Clock
work Orange, Malcolm McDowell has com
bined with director Lindsay Anderson to 
provide an intriguing film which entertains 
as well as disturbs. Through a fine mixture 
of serious and humorous material they 
manage to maintain a high level of interest 
during the nearly three hour run time.
A short preface sets the tone as a poor 
coffee picker looses his hands as punish
ment for stealing. From here we switch to 
the Imperial Coffee Company where Mick 
Travis (McDowell), a slightly overambitious 
management trainee, has been given the 
opportunity to represent the company in 
the north of England. He takes off in his 
car and travels from one unlikely situation 
to the next, finding corruption everywhere 
from the police to the clergy. Lucky man 
that he is. Mick emerges from every 
situation virtually unscathed and more 
eager to succeed than before. Climbing the 
road to success, Mick becomes the assistant 
and then the stooge for a wealthy industri
alist. accepting blame for some illegal 
dealings and being jailed in the process. In 
the Fc'Iiniesque ending Mick iauditionoJ
by Lindsay Anderson himself for a role in a 
new film (this one) and joins in a party 
with the cast of O Lucky Man.
On one level, O Lucky Man seems to 
parody the works of many modern 
directors, including Godard, Buuel, 
Fellini, and Kubrick. In fact, a large part of 
the films final segment parallels 
McDowells role in Clockwork Orange. A 
small rock band is seen intermittently in 
flashback as they rehearse the theme song. 
Later, after nearly becoming a guinea pig in 
a mad surgeons grotesque experiment, 
Mick grabs a ride with the group on their 
way to London. In one of the more clever 
scenes, the judge in Micks trial adjourns to 
a rear chamber where, removing his cloak 
to reveal only red briefs underneath, he 
stretches out on a table to be whipped by 
his secretary.
The rather large cast is competent and 
several roles are often played by one 
person, but McDowells performance is 
excellent and his charm carries much of the 
film. The cinematography is unique and 
provocative, as the scenes are divided by 
sharp contours and a darkened screen. O 
Lucky Man succeeds as both entertainment 
and mild social comment.
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
Once I koshered a chicken. First I went 
to the 4th Avenue chicken market with my 
grandfather and watched the rabbi okay 
the breaking of the chickens neck (in the 
Jewish religion they just dont kill a 
chicken or a cow, they slit its neck and 
watch it bleed to death, but its got to be 
okayed by the rabbi). Anyways the 
chicken runs around squawking (something 
like a chicken without a head) until he 
bleeds out. Then they throw him into this 
big bin with a lot of other kosher chickens 
and someone cleans off the blood and then 
the poultry men go and get the big 
chickens or the ones that look real healthy 
(at that point its hard to tell). Meanwhile 
they get the chickens and then they have 
to be koshered some more. At the market, 
there is a mass koshering. Now, the way 
you kosher something after the rabbi is 
gone is you salt it, with huge salt crystals. 
We never ate chickens that were koshered 
at the market. My grandmother always did 
it cause the market didnt make it clean 
enough. Thats where I come in. You wash 
it and slap it around a little and then you 
put a lot of salt all over it, let it soak in a 
while, pray a bit then wash it some more 
and salt it some more, and wash it. The 
whole thing can take a day or two.
All this salt explains the pastrami at a 
kosher deli in Squirrel Hill called Lesters 
Deli. Im no pastrami connoisseur so I 
cant pass too much judgement on it, but I 
know for sure it was too salty. I figure its 
cause someone forgot to wash the last layer 
of salt off. They have real fine roast beef 
though. It was cheap-only $3.90 a pound 
(the pastrami cost about the same). The 
chopped liver was too chopped. It must 
have been put in a blender and it must have 
been under the light too long cause it was 
dry.
Lesters Deli is the only real kosher place 
I saw in Pittsburgh where Dr. Browns soda 
was being sold. Where I come from, when 
you buy a frankfurter (always Hebrew 
National) you drink a Dr. Browns Cream 
soda. The Lesters had never heard of the 
doctors cream soda but they had the 
Cel-Ray celery soda which is just as good 
and was terrific with this herring we got 
there. It was called Ma Cohens creamed 
fillets. The best herring I ever had. The 
woman who served us was real nice and the 
place is set up like an appetizing counter 
with some tables. Strictly kosher and 
cheap. Its at 4239 Murray Avenue. Try it 
for the roast beef.
(Im doing the kosher circuit because its 
the Jewish new year this week.) Iz Cohens,
also on Murray Ave. is a real clean grocery 
expanded into a real clean restaurant with 
old women waitresses floating around 
during the day and deaf ones at night. It 
took my friend 40 minutes during the day 
to be served a cheese omelette and a 
corned beef sandwich and took me five 
repeats at night to get my order in. No 
matter for the waitresses. Iz Cohens has 
real good food. The corned beef is clean 
and rich in color. The omelettes have a lot 
of cheese and are inexpensive. They gave a 
whole lot of juicey sour pickles along on 
the side and their orange juice is freshly 
squeezed (you can taste the pulp). The 
place has no atmosphere at all. Its too 
fluourscent and too open in a cafeteria sort 
of way but well worth the trip. Its just 
down the hill from Weinsteins (which is 
not Kosher and not so good anyways) on 
Murray.
In the downtown area in Mels Corned 
Beef Kettle which is th cream of the 
Koshers and in general the best place Ive 
eaten in the Pitts so far. Mels, which is 
strictly kosher is run by people all wearing 
big gold crosses. Its clean, looks like the 
delis in Brooklyn and has these nice 
waitresses who say dear and honey a lot. 
Firstly, they had hot borcht which is beet 
soup. Usually you eat borcht with sour 
cream mixed in and some matzoh on the 
side. They had matzo and its not even 
passover so they are for sure authentic. I 
didnt taste the borcht cause I cant stand 
it but it looked the way it does when my 
grandfather says its a mechiah (a blessing). 
The Italian Roman Catholic who 
accompanied me had kneadlelach (matzo 
ball) soup. It was so good. Better than my 
grandmothers. (There is no documented 
truth in Jewish grandmothers being great 
cooks.) The soup was this great broth with 
one boulder of a kneadle plopped down in 
the middle of the bowl. Fantastic. I had a 
corned beef omelette. It was served with 
lettuce and tomato and potatoes and a 
bagel and there was more meat in it than 
Ive seen in a corned beef sandwich ever 
and it was only $2.25 and it was almost the 
best corned beef Ive ever had and for the 
sure the best in Pitts. The soup was only 65 
cents. The person next to us was having a 
huge hamburger which looked just as good 
and on the way out we had beef sticks. It 
was so good. Its on Fifth Ave. near the 
Chatham Cinema and youll only see it on 
your way downtown cause the traffic is 
going in that direction. Go eat.
In Minneapolis Minnesota this week 
someone stole a 3000 pound steel wrecking 
ball from a construction site.
afrVe&wetl
& IMty in p^ris *
FOR GODS SAKE, DONT MISS IT! - CMO FOCUS
EVERY WEDNESDAY & THURSDAY at 7:30 P..M, 
WALT HARPER'S ATTIC! Market Sq.
Student Rush 7:25 P.M.$3.00 with ID

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973Page 13
Art Worldnulls on theatre
by Cyndy Schmidt
The graduate students of the Painting 
and Sculpture Department opened their an
nual group exhibition Monday, September 
17. The show presents a wide range of 
^content, technique and talent.
The initial impression was only mildly 
stimulating and many of the pieces were 
disappointing. Several paintings and draw
ings fell far short of even amateur criteria. 
There were several outstanding pieces, 
though. Roger Dumas big flowered hat 
was the most visually pleasing. A pastel 
surrealistic painting with truncated, 
whipped cream clouds, it showed fine use 
of color and an originality of subject that 
was sadly lacking in some of the other 
paintings. Mike Conrad, another regular 
contributor, had an interesting painting 
evocative of Frank Stellas work, though 
with more activity in both composition 
and color.
Sculpture was represented by several 
glass works and two pieces by Jack Rein
hardt. Both were stimulating; one, a bust, 
bore disturbing resemblances to both de
partment store hat mannequins and 
Houdons portrait busts. The other work 
was a soaring, golden pistillate form. Beth 
Ann Haner continues to produce excellent 
glass. Her pair of Latin-American dancers 
fully express the joy that went into 
creating them; her vase is a 1970s version 
of Tiffany glass. Ron Bentons glass hands 
were well executed and just terrific. They 
show a fine sense of humor; something 
rarely seen in art galleries outside of Olden
burg exhibitions. Terry Mauros glass pieces 
are something out of the Arabian Nights; 
there seemed to be ceramics combined 
with the glass.
Aside from Haners glass couple and 
Dumas hat, the figurative offerings were 
lethargic. Some drawings suffered from a 
lack of dynamics both in execution and 
content. They were purely and simply 
boring. I got the feeling Id seen them 
many times before, and not in a professionally-oriented colleges student gallery, 
either. Too many works were obvious 
attempts to tap the current market; they 
relied too much on popular gimmicks and 
trends. The handling of paint was offensive 
in two paintings. Instead of appearing 
crudely and primitively emotional, it was 
amateurish. All of the works were pre
sented well, but like an Ill hyphenated 
after the I, you somehow never recover 
from a grey cardboard mat around a 
drawing. A respectable mat is just one of 
those things you come to expect and even 
students can afford them when only a few 
of their works are to be hung in a show 
open to the public.
Harrison Kay Miller had a small, lively 
etching. The phrase on the print was You 
dont have to go to New York to get the 
real thing. In the case of this show, if you 
want a professional caliber exhibit, you do 
have to go to New York to get the real 
thing. Or at least to Philadelphia. For a 
survey of recent work by CMU graduate 
students in painting and sculpture, the only 
place youll ever get to see this real thing is 
at the Students Gallery.
il
The C-MU Students' Gallery, seen bedecked 
with the glory of the year's first exhibit. 
Photo by F. Shamlian
The Pittsburgh Poor Players, who in the 
past have brought Pittsburgh and the sur
rounding area an alternate to standard 
commercial theatrical fare with such pro
ductions as Trial of the Catonsville Nine, 
One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, and 
Sticks and Bones, will present as their first 
production for the fall, Machiavellis The 
Mandrake, considered by many critics as 
the foremost Italian Renaissance Comedy.
Performances will be held at the Univer
sity and City Ministries, Fifth and Bellefield, Thursday thru Saturday, Sept. 20- 
October 13. Curtain 8:30, donations $2, 
Students and Senior Citizens $1. 
Reservations 361-0566.
The Pittsburgh area will be treated to 
the very special film series, the America 
Film Series, which will be shown at the 
Strand Theatre in Shady side.
Beginning October 29 and 30, the 
American Film Theatre will present eight 
major motion picture versions of con
temporary classics of the Broadway and 
London Stages, one feature a month for 
eight months with matinee and evening 
performances always on a consecutive 
Monday and Tuesday.
Included in the premier season are: 
Eugene ONeills The Iceman Cometh,
starring Lee Marvin, Frederic March, 
Robert Ryan, Jeff Bridges and Bradford 
Dillman, directed by John Frankenheimer; 
Eugene Ionescos Rhinoceros, starring 
Zero Mostel, Gene Wilder and Karen Black, 
directed by Tom OHorgan; Harold Pinters 
The Homecoming, starring Cyril Cusack, 
Ian Holm, Michael Jayston, Vivien 
Merchant, Terence Rigby and Paul Rogers, 
directed by Peter Hall; Edward Albees A 
Delicate Balance, starring Katharine 
Hepburn, Paul Scofield, Lee Remick, Kate 
Reid, Joseph Cotten and Betsy Blair, 
directed by Tony Richardson.
Also to be presented are John Osbornes 
Luther, starring Stacy Keach, directed 
by Guy Green; Simon Grays Butley, 
starring Alan Bates and Jessica Tandy, 
directed by Harold Pinter; Anton Chekovs 
Three Sisters, starring Laurence Olivier, 
Joan Plowright, Alan Bates and the 
National Theatre Company of Great 
Britain, directed by Laurence Olivier; and 
Kurt Weill and Maxwell Andersons Lost 
in the Stars, starring Brock Peters, Melba 
Moore, Raymond St. Jacques, Clifton 
Davis, directed by Daniel Mann.
Subscription applications are available 
at participating theatre., or by writing to 
the American Film Theatre, P.O, Box 256. 
New York. N.Y. 10046. -SNKBNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES 1973 
FOR FACULTY AND THEIR FAMILIES
FOR STUDENTS OF ALL THE PITTSBURGH CAMPUSES 
ROSH HASH AN AH
WEDNESDAY Sept. 26 8:00P.M. Ball Room-SKIBO*
THURSDAY Sept. 27 10:00 A.M. Rogal Room-Y-IKC**
(KIDDUSHFOLLOWING MORNING SERVICE)
FRIDAY Sept. 28 10:00A M. IlogalRoom-Y IKC**
*Skibo - Student Union of Carnegie-Mellon U. off Forbes Ave. 
on the C.M.U. Campus
Y-IKC Bldg., 315 S. Bellfield Ave. (opposite Heinz Chapel)
ALL WELCOME
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CALL 621 8875
**

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 1973
by Jeff R. Englund
The women could have had a perfect victory. The foe was van
quished in as big a rout as could have been wished by anyone, and their 
wounded pride was restored. Their banner had been carried to swift and 
powerful victory. The champagne sparkled. Everything should have.
But they blew it.
One thing definitely did not sparkle. To be honest, it fairly tarnished 
the event beyond repair. It was Rosemary Casa Is dialogue.
How old is she? Twelve? She sounded most of the time like a little 
child thinking of nasty things to say to someone she was mad at. Any class 
or good taste she might possess were totally indiscernible Thursday night.
Whatever it took for Howard and Gene to keep their cool throughout 
this match must be something well beyond the normal range of human 
endurance. Cosell had no time to be controversial; he was completely 
occupied trying to prevent a rout in the broadcasting boothbad taste 
soundly defeating intelligence. The men both showed great poise, and 
more importantly, considerable neutrality. If they exchanged any banter 
at all, it was only to appear sporting and to maintain some degree of 
balance.
Most of Casa Is offerings were just childish. Her only witticism 
missed the belt by a foot. If Bobby Riggs walks like a duck, which no one 
was allowed to forget, must he be described as a duck out of water if he 
misses a return?
The ladys thin skin had obviously been pierced to bleeding by Riggs 
good-natured barbs. Anyone should be able to see that hes only baiting 
for the fun of it; hes not taking the chauvinism seriouslywhy should 
anyone? So she tried her best to get even (or pour it on, as it turned out), 
and\ we re happy to say, failed miserably.
Well, at least everyone now knows that women can play good 
tennis. 
Margaret Court probably would have.been a better commentator.
 V "
Action in C-MU - Case game.Photo by Nick Lardas
Pika Sees Stars; 
Beta Mashes Tatons
by Mike Pochan
In the first upset of the intramural 
football season, defending major league 
champs PIKA were defeated by the 
Coaches All-Stars, 27-14. PIKA could not 
move the ball and Coaches quarterback 
Mike Koshute was hot on completions to 
his outstanding end Scattaregia. The AllStars racked up 13 points in the second 
quarter to overcome PIKAs 12-6 first 
quarter lead. PIKA had near-misses on two 
touchdowns; one was called back on a 
penalty and the other was ruled an in
complete pass. The All-Stars, formed since 
last season, are certainly not lacking talent.
Beta Theta Pi annihilated the P.K.Tators 
by a score of 51-18. The BTPs controlled 
the field both offensively and defensively 
and rambled to an easy victory.
SAE looked extremely impressive as 
they triumphed over Black Magic, 48-18.
Kappa Sigma34 
Purple Gnurples 28 
Red Riders A-1 
Scrow 1 
Red Death38 
PKT-12
Bearded Clams50
Civil Engineers-7 
McGilldoes-2 
Big Red0 (forfeit) 
TDP-0 (forfeit) 
Shakers Beers 12 
Azzzoles-1 
PLP-3
SPORTS
fViax Lebbin dribbles as Charlie Lavalee 
watches.Photo by Nick Lardas
Sad Case in Soccer
by Mark Schiff man
C-MU put on a dazzling display of team
work to shut out Case Western Reserve 
University by a score of 6-0.
The first half of the game was fairly 
even with the Tartans taking 10 shots at 
goal while Case took 9. Scoring for C-MU 
in the first half were Charlie. Lavalee and 
Mike Smith.
In the second half the Tartans ran away 
with the game. They kept Case deep in 
their own territory for most of the half and 
combined for 4 more goals before the horn 
sounded to end the game.
Scoring in the second half were Mike
Smith, connecting on his second penalty 
shot of the day, Max Lebbin, Marc Fortin, 
and Roger Cambor. Fortin,* Lebbin, 
Cambor, and Lavalee also had one assist 
apiece.
The Tartans were playing without the 
services of Peter Moses. Moses, as 
mentioned in a previous article, is ineligible 
to play in the Presidents Athletic Con
ference as a result of his playing for the 
Canonsburg Maggis, a team in the National 
Soccer League, over the winter.
In spite of this loss, C-MU easily 
defeated Case and are looking forward to 
another successful campaign. The Tartans 
next game at home is on September 29 
against Thiel.
QB Mike Hill threw 8 touchdown passes, 
three of them to end Ted Schiffman. SAE 
may be the surprise powerhouse of the 
year.
The Wild Bunch got a slow start, but 
then threw it into high gear to come from 
behind and beat Grade A. Harvey Garn, 
end for Grade A, made two spectacular 
catches to give his team an early lead. 
Bunch QB John Shanahan finally got his 
team moving in the second half by running 
two touchdown plays. The Bunch rolled up 
20 points in the fourth quarter to earn a 
26-15 victory.
Other scores for the first week of play:
Contact between Tartan and Spartan.Photo by Nick Lardas

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973Page 15
SPORTS 
LIBERATED
by Mary Jo Chabala
Congratulations to Billie Jean King on her 
victory.
The womens sports program at C-MU is 
well underway. Womens sports for this 
season have included field hockey, fencing 
(co-ed), intramural volleyball, and tennis.
The womens field hockey team 
practices each Tuesday and Thursday. . 
Womens physical education instructor 
Jane Fisk indicates the following about the 
team: Lots of new faces... could
become a pretty good team . . .just needs 
time to develop. The team will be built 
around last years returning membersPam 
Clement (captain), Pat Berry, Ruth Potts, 
and Catherine du Breuil. The first game is 
Tuesday, September 25 at Chatham 
College.
Three fencing meets have been played in 
the past two weeks. On Saturday, 
September 8, the mens foil and the 
womens foil were held. Jane Fisk took 
first place in the womens competition. On 
Saturday, September 15, freshman Jeannie 
Cahan entered the womens epee. Although 
she didnt place, she made a fine showing. 
Jane Fisk took second place in the 
womens fencing epee.
All entries for womens intramural 
volleyball are in, and matches will probably 
begin Thursday, September 20. Black 
Magic, last years champs, are the team to 
beat.
The womens tennis team practices each 
Monday and Wednesday. This years team, 
containing lots of talent, may be the best 
C-MU has ever had. The first match will be 
held at Penn State (Fayette Campus) on 
Monday, September 24.
The Women Look Good!
by Leslie Allen
CMUs womens tennis team begins in
tercollegiate play next week. From the 
looks of things in practice this years teair 
will be far better than last years, and h 
quite possibly the best womens team that 
ZMU has seen in a long while.
The singles players will be the strongest 
part of the tennis team. Captain Elly Zim
merman (soph.) and Leslie Allen (frosh) 
ire fighting it out for the first singles posi
tion, while Ciffeton Green and Marya 
Piasceki will play in the three and four 
singles spots.
The doubles segment of the womens 
team shows great potential. Senior Nancy 
Perlman has improved a lot and will play 
on the first doubles team. The women try
ing for the open doubles spots are Nancy 
Bink, Susy Duffy, Jody Fabrikaut, Dorie 
Fuess, Debby Kass, Ann Kramer, Becky 
Lloyd, Nancy Lyons, Celina Munkerbeck, 
Donna Muslin, and Lois Wholey. Practice 
will tell which of these girls will make the 
team.
Practice is held on Mondays and Wed
nesdays from 4:30 to 6:00. Girls receive 
expert advice from Coach Jane Fisk and 
assistant Barbara Falkner.
The team shows great promise. With a 
lot of hard work and concentrated team
work, CMU womens net team can have a 
very rewarding season. Good luck to them, 
and why not come out and support them?
*
Runners Lose First 
Two Meets
by Greg Hyatt
The C-MU cross country team opened 
their season last week against, as predicted, 
very tough opposition. On Wednesday they 
battled Case-Western Reserve, last years 
PAC champions, but lost 24-32. Ken Kloes 
was the standout for the Tartans, winning 
in a school record 21:45 over the 4.3 mile 
Schenley Park course. He soundly beat 
Cases All-American, Bowser. Kloes was
followed by upperclassmen Greg Dewey, 
Tony McKay and Greg Hyatt and by 
freshman Ray Smith.
On Saturday, the talented and deep 
team from Grove City defeated a weary 
C-MU squad 23-36. C-MU defeated a third 
team, the Jeannette Harriers, 22-33. Kloes 
again led the way taking second place, 
losing by just three seconds.
The Tartans hope to go unbeaten the 
rest of the year and to take another run at 
Case in the PAC Championships.
Tartans' first game is his Saturday.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
A C-M U Football 
Player Is...
by Jim Litsas
Just what is a CMU football player? 
What does a member of the Tough Tartans 
look alike? How does he dress? Can you 
talk to him? Does he kick and bite?
Is he human?
The Tartan linemen are monsters. With 
an average height of 63, an average 
weight of 260 lbs., these linemen arent 
hard to find. Dont be fooled by the lone
ly, gullible looks on their faces. When 
Coach Gasparella orders his pets onto the 
field, the metamorphosis begins. The flab 
turns into s lid rock, and the minds concen
trate on a single concept: KILL.
The receivers look somewhat different. 
They, too, are tall and heavy, but actually, 
most of their weight concentrated just 
above the ankles. Tartan receivers are hard 
to find between classes during the week, as 
chey frequently fly.
Ah, the quarterbacks. Handsome, debo
nair, masculine. There are three Tartan
RESEARCH
THOUSANDS OF TOPICS*2.75 per page
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, mail order catalog Enclose 1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 . 
LOS ANGELES. CALIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 or 477-5493 Our research material is soia torresearch assistance only._______
quarterbacks. Tall, dark, with piercing 
eyes, sinewy wrists and lightning quick re
flexes, the Tartan quarterbacks are never 
found alone. On and off the field, their 
magnetic personalities attract sexless enti
ties like fleas.
But let us not forget that anyone who 
attends our school is an elite member of 
that society commonly known as Intelligencia International, hootball players, 
though possessing perfectly formed, ath
letic bodies are, nonetheless, also members 
of this society. As a result, members of our 
football team have a certain air about 
them-an air of knowledge. The sizes of 
their craniums reflect this characteristic.
If, by chance, you glimpse a towering 
bulk in the lunch line, or in your math 
lecture, or lying on the football field in 
pain, give him a friendly greeting. He fights 
tor the glory of CMU every Saturday at 
1:30 pm, on the football fields of our 
land....
TYPING
FAST  REASONABLE  EFFICIENT
TERM PAPERS-THESES-DISSERTATIONS 
PUNCTUATION, SPELLING, GRAMMAR 
, CORRECTED
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
Electric Typewriters used exclusively
PHOTO COPIES MADE

---------------------------------------------------

P ge 16THE TARTAN-Tuesday, September 25, 1973
The worlds first calculators that challenge 
computers and fit into your pocket.
Are you spending too much time solving prob
lems the old-fashioned waywith slide rule, 
ordinary calculator or paper and pencil?
Solve problems in nNlobcns with one of the 
same calculators used by professionals in your 
fieldthe HP-35 Scientific Pocket Calculator, 
the HP-45 AcyablNc Scientific Pocket Calcu
lator, or the HP-80 Business Pocket Calculator.
Hewlett-Packard calculators give you more pow
er, more accuracy, more storage registers and 
more features than ordinary calculators. For 
example, the HP-35 gives you up to 10 digit 
accuracy, a floating decimal point, and a range 
of 200 decades (10-99 to 10"). The HP-45 aeno 
gives you automatic conversions, offers you a 
choice of fixed or scientific notation, and per
forms register and vector arithmetic. And the
HP-80 is pre-programmed with 3 dozen financial
functions.
Right boFs an HP calculator can help you get
better grades, because it  .
 SAVES TIME in solving problemsjust press 
the keys!
 GUARANTEES ACCURACY for fewer mistakes
 OFFERS COMPUTER-LIKE POWER (no wait
ing for school machine)
 REPLACES TABLES AND PAPER-AND-PENCIL CALCULATIONS
 OPERATES SILENTLY for use in classroom, 
library or dorm
 GOES ANYWHERE (fits in pocket or purse; 
weighs but 9 ounces)
COME IN TODAY FOR A FREE DEMONSTRATION of the complete line of
Hewlett-Packard pocket calculators
Beat the numbers...
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY BOOK STORE
SCHENLEYPARK 
PITTSBBURGH, PA.
