m-x\ :v
A detail of the window that Rusty Gray, a graduate student in Metallurgy and Materials Science,
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 3, September 23, 1980.Peer Help open & miming; 
awaits evaluation results
! designed and constructed in a 75-hour summer project for Kappa Kappa Gamma.
by Alice Alfonsi
Peer Helps programs are open and 
running, assures Keith Williams, co
director of the CMU student organiza
tion. The center is simply being 
evaluated. The investigation started 
when Dean Cox discovered a $600 (esti
mated) phone bill from the Peer Help 
office.
One of last years counselors, who is 
no longer at CMU, discovered a way to 
tap into the Watts line. This telephone 
line enables the caller to make long
distance phone calls at a cheaper rate.
Peer Help is not connected finan
cially with the free academic tutoring in 
Baker Hall. Although the tutoring ser
vice shares their office, tutors are not 
counselors. Peer Help is merely the 
host agency for the tutoring service.
Two members of Peer Help are paid 
to administer the tutoring program. 
This year they are Erika Kline and Dave 
Liebskind. Because Kline and Liebskind are new, they had to submit a for
mally written program for the tutoring 
service to Dean Swank and Dean Cox. 
Until the program is approved, the 
5 tutoring at 150A Baker Hall is frozen.
> The source of funding for the tutori ing program has been changed. Last 
\ year when the directors needed money, 
I they would simply ask Dick Sire. This 
however, the request for fundsyear,
j must be approved by Dean Cox.
Kline disagrees with the accusation
Hunt Library called inadequateDirector plans improvement program
by Melody Mazzie
Thomas J. Michalak was appointed 
the new Director of University Libraries 
as of September 15. Michalak, who 
holds an M.S. in Library Science, 
oversaw the Engineering and Science 
Division of Columbia University since 
1975. He also was a serials librarian at 
the University of Illinois from 1964-67 
and the librarian for Economics, 
Political Science and Forensic Sciences 
at Indiana University from 1967-75.
Michalak accepted the position at 
CMU because it was a more 
challenging job and gave him full 
responsibility for all of the library 
divisions.
Hunt Library has continually been 
the victim of criticism by both faculty 
and students who feel thacthe supply of 
materials is inadequate for a school of 
this caliber. If we talk about 
collections in Hunt, said Michalak, I 
think its fair to say theyre not very 
good. Were certainly stronger in
Science and Engineering than we are in 
Hunt.
To improve the condition of Hunts 
facilities, Michalak intends to talk to 
faculty members, department heads and 
deans about what we need to do in 
terms of support for teaching and 
research programs. He also hopes to 
institute some sort of mechanism foir 
receiving comments and complaints
from students.
Next week Michalak plans to meet 
with the administration to discuss a 
budget increase for the Library. He feels 
that the purchase of new materials will 
improve the quality of Hunt, although 
there is a problem determining a budget 
prioity when there is always something 
that can be bought for a library.
Michalak had a larger budget for one 
division at Columbia than he has for the 
entire library system at CMU, though 
Columbia is admittedly a much larger 
school.
Michalak stressed his confidence that 
the Library would be receiving support 
continued on page 5Thomas J. Michalak (photo by Chuck Chidekel)
that the Peer Help tutoring is a dupli
cated University service. Ever since the 
second day of school, Kline said, peo
ple have been coming in begging for 
tutors. The departments arent meeting 
the needs of the students.
Professor Richard Moore, associate 
head of the Math Department, does have 
problems finding tutors. Moore says the 
majority of Juniors and Seniors dont 
want to tutor. Last year the Math 
Department spent 30 tutor hours a 
week for 400 students.
continued on page 5
The night the 
lights went 
out 
in Morewood
Last Tuesday at 11:15 PM a power line 
in front of the Bureau of Mines building 
exploded causing a power failure in Morewood Gardens, Mudge House and Frater
nity Square. Power was restored at 12:50 
AM.
Morewood Gardens and Mudge House 
were equipped with functioning emer
gency lighting systems that lit the stair
wells and parts of the lobby area. E-tower 
and the fraternities did not have emergency 
lights.
In addition, the Morewood kitchen did 
not have emergency lighting, forcing the 
More-Pizza Staff to close up in darkness. 
The staff complained about the possible 
dangers of working in a dark kitchen with 
hot ovens and an abundance of knives and 
blades. They also noted that all restaurant 
facilities are required to have emergency 
lighung to prevent this danger.
Campus Police and the Residence Life 
staff circulated through the dorm areas 
warning residents about lighting candles 
and playing with the fire alarm system. 
The use of candles increased the possibility 
of fire while the fire alarm system was 
experiencing minor problems as a result of 
the power failure.
Despite a small fire that was set on More
wood Avenue and the evacuation of the 
brothers of ZBT because of a possible gas 
leak which was later recognized as a stink 
bomb, CMU police kept the area in order.
Chem E announces staff changes, awards
by Lori Zuti 
Dr. Herbert L. Toor, former dean of
CIT, has been named as the first recip
ient of the Mobily Chair in Chemical 
Engineering.
The chair professorship is underwrit
ten by Mobay Chemical Corporation,, 
one of the leading chemical producers 
in the US, and provides Dr. Toors 
salary and other related expenses.
Dr. Toor is a specialist in transport 
phenomena, heat and mass transfer, 
and diffusion kinetics. He was awarded 
the ch air due to his outstanding abili
ties in teaching and research.
Associate Professor Rakesh K. Jain 
has been awarded the National Institute 
of Health (NIH) Career Development 
Award.
This award consists of five full \t*ars 
salary support which begins July 1, 
1980 and will enable Dr. Jain to devote 
more time to his research.
As of September, two new faculty 
members, Assistant Professor Myung S. 
Jhon and Visiting Professor Geoffrey D. 
Parfitt, have joined the Chem. E staff.
Assistant Professor Myung S. Jhon 
was a post-doctorate in the department 
of Chemistry at the University of Min
nesota and received his Ph.D. from the 
University of Chicago. His research 
interests include surface metal prob
lems, kinetic theory of fluids, chemical 
reactions, and polymer physics.
Visiting Professor Geoffrey D. Par
fitt. internationally known for his work 
in colloids and surfaces, has worked in 
industry for the last ten years.
Finally, Professor Tomlinson Fort, 
Jr., ex-department head, has resigned 
and gone on to become Provost at the 
University of MissouriRolla,

---------------------------------------------------

EdHorial.__________________________
Will CMU library system ever stack up?
The Yale Daily News publication The Insid
er's Guide To Colleges categorizes CMUs 
library system as woefully inadequate. Tho
mas J. Michalack, CMUs new Director of 
Libraries, agrees; at least with respect to the 
Hunt Library.
Michalak says that our engineering and 
science collection is in good shape; but as anyb
ody who has ever had occasion to use Hunt 
library knows, a lot of money must be invested 
before CMU could call Hunt adequate.
Michalak, however, seems to have reason to 
believe that the administrauon has made a firm 
commitment riot only to improve Hunt library; 
but to improve it quickly. Next week, the 
administration will meet with the new director 
to discuss a budget increase for the purchase of 
desperately needed materials.
In addition to new materials, though, we
ineed more hours: more hours when librarians 
can help students use whatever materials are 
available and more hours when students can use 
the library for quiet study. As things are now, 
there is no reference service after 5 p.m.: the dme 
when most students begin working on research 
projects and other homework assignments.
The library is also inadequate in that it pro
vides litde dme for quiet study on weekends. 
The facilities close at 9 p.m. on Friday evening, 
6 p.m. on Saturday and dont open on Sunday 
undl 1 p.m. These hours when the library is 
closed are precisely the hours when students 
need the quiet space for study because dorms are 
generally in a more fesdve atmosphere.
Michalaks ideas can help fill all these gaps if 
the administrauon provides the money for him 
to do so. The new director seems well qualified 
for the job of refurbishing the library system at
CMU; he comes from Columbia University 
where he had more money for one small div
ision than CMU offers for the entire library 
system. He is looking at his new job as a chal
lenge. We can only wonder if he realizes how 
big a challenge it may be.
But maybe this dme the administrauon will 
back its words with acdon. Maybe they really do 
intend to make the CMU library at least ade
quate. And maybe one day we will even have a 
library that is on the level of Columbia and 
other insdtudons that our administrauon likes 
to compare CMU to. But at this point we can
only wonder.
The opinions expressed in this editorial are 
those of The Tartan editorial board and are not 
intended to represent the views of any other 
body on campus.
Letters to the Editor
One mile from where? 
Editor:
The cover page of last weeks Tartan 
contained a small gray box in the bot
tom right hand corner. The informa
tion contained in that box revealed that 
six people had been assaulted  two of 
them raped  in the area of Forbes Ave. 
near Schenley Park.
What really caught my attention was 
the warning to use the campus escort 
system and be careful! As an offcampus resident, I had used the escort 
system several times and was very disil
lusioned with it.
To my understanding, the escort sys
tem agreed to take students as far as one 
mile to their place of residence. I live 
exactly one mile from CMU and was 
repeatedly taken only as far as Bayard, 
about three blocks away from Fifth 
Ave., and about only 1/3 mile from 
campus.
At 5'2", 95 lbs, I feel fairly safe in 
saying that I would probably have a 
hard time fighting off an attacker. The 
escort service drove me through a lovely 
residential section of Morewood Ave. 
and left me to walk Center Ave., and I 
would venture a guess that Baum Blvd. 
is not the safest street to walk alone.
Feeling somwhere between furious 
and irate, I went over to Security and 
spoke with Director Westbrooks and Lt. 
Castelli. If they were going toencourage 
us to use the escort service, I wanted to 
know why they didnt provide a more 
extensive system. Granted, the escort 
service is a privilege to students, but 
considering the housing shortage at 
CMU, many of us are virtually forced to 
live off-campus and should be entitled 
to some kind of protection. The escort 
service is a vital and necessary service, 
but I felt that it has not been used as 
effectively as it could have been.
When I s|>oke with Dir. Westbrooks 
about my complaints, he was not only 
responsive, but he offered to take a ride 
in the escort van with Lt. Castelli and 
myself and actually measure the 
mileage to my apartment from CMU. 
W'hile I was overwhelmed by his con
cern, I could not help but wonder that 
there were not established boundaries 
and that, as Lt. Castelli informed inc. 
no measured miles. Thus, there* was
Bayard except that it was an estimated 
cut off point.
The most amazing thing to me was 
that Dir. Westbrooks began looking at 
the speedometer the moment we left the 
Security office at Baker Hall. Appar
ently the mile that the escort service 
would take a passanger began right 
there in the parking lot. By the time we 
reached Fifth Ave. by Mudge House, the 
mile was already up.
Wrhat I thought, and what I think 
many other students thought, was that 
the mile started from the campus boun
daries. It upsets me that Westbrook was 
not aware that the mile ended at Fifth 
Ave., and it upsets me more that Secur
ity didnt think of starting the mile at 
school boundaries.
According to Westbrook, my point 
was well taken and I was assured that 
something would be done to rectify the 
situation and extend the mile radius, to 
my despair, however, boundaries have 
still not been set, though Westbrook 
claims that setting boundaries is geo
graphically impossible. He does, how
ever, claim that students will be taken 
one mile, according to their starting 
point, toward their destination.
If you plan to use* the escort service, 
make sure you areallotted the full mile. 
There is no need to walk the streets 
alone because Sec urity has failed to set 
down specific boundaries by which to 
determine a mile radius from campus. 
Director westbrook seemed genuinely 
concerned that student safety be placed 
in the for-front, so I intended to make 
good use* of his offer and have Security 
drive me straight to my front door. I 
recommend that other students do the 
same, especially in light of the events 
that have occurred recently.
Incidcntly, the Tartan article said 
that a susjxt t was being held. Accord
ing to Security, that statement was inac 
curate, which makes for all the more 
reason why we should make the escort 
set vice live up to its full one mile radius. 
Perhaps Security cannot establish 
boundaries for service, but I'm sure if 
you live off campus you have a good 
idea of the distance yourself  In them 
know where* that mile reallx ends!
Melody Mazzie 
English 481
Vote on Nov. 4Editor:
The Nov. 4 election day is not far 
away. Its essential that college students 
realize the importance of their voting 
power. Registration forms are available 
at Skibo Information Desk. Any student 
thats a U.S. citizen, will be 18 by Nov. 5, 
and has been living here in this district 
for 30 days can register. Its not enough 
just to register. Thats easy. But so is 
voting. And its the college voter tur
nout thats important, not the number 
registered.
As the number os college voters rises, 
so does the number of listening ears in 
Harrisburg and Washington. Lobbying 
efforts for state and federal funding of 
private institutions like CMU become 
effective; the legislators must meet our 
demands or risk their position in an 
upcoming election. Politics is the name 
of the game. Participate on Nov. 4. Get 
registered NOW!.
Laurie Elm 
CIT Senator 
MMS 82
Doherty up in Smoke
Editor:
Anyone who works in the Fine Arts
printmaking program knows that 
'extremely volatile spirits are used when 
working with the paints and inks. Ade
quate ventilation and avoidance of fire 
is wise when one is dealing with an 
explosive situation which could 
endanger a students life. I question 
Warner Halls wisdom in rearranging 
the printing studios (with its Volatile 
atmosphere), 1) beside sculpture with 
its casting furnaces; 2) directly above the 
glass studios whose furnace is con
stantly lit, and 3) above ceramic studios 
in which gas kilns are always in use.
I sincerely hope that this convenient 
move for the benefit of Warner Hall 
wont cause a situation in which 
Doherty Hall will be blown up.
The printing studios use the Coal 
Research Building to its maximum 
potential. As a Fine Arts student I dont 
think it is good public relations to move 
Warner Halls Public Relations Depart
ment into a well-functioning studio.
John Acklin
Fine Arts--  1 1 --*, ...Letters to the editor should be short
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if they are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens
News Editor: Jim Balsom 
Features Editor: Renee Rosenfeld 
Entertainment Editor: Ric hard Gorelirk 
Sports Editor: Wes Seeley
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
Dossier Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Craig Otto fom Weinkle
Associate News Editor Jeanne Abmayr 
Foreign Correspondent: K.M. Kulak 
Editorial Assistant: Bob Leighty
(o/tyriffhl < /V.W by The Tartan. Ill* t-.iliim mI B<mi<I rcmixn tintight * withokl Itoin puhliciiion ;tn\ <<>|>\ it ill-tins mil n f<N ptiMit .iiion. I1111<I<<I in |kiii h\ iImStudent (ow-iiiiiw-ni <>l CluiiH-Kir-Mcllon I'ttivmm. IiiinIhiiiI). IViiiis\k.im.t I.V2I.1. h<lii<Miul Ollms: Skilm jO. (112) .V7H-2111 <>i 2112. Kusinrss Otlu<-v Skilm .*>2. < 112) .'7K-2I11.21 Iioiii phone. (112) .">7M-211.1. All rights rrsrrvrd.K< |m11ii. <1 photoglyphs lakrn In iimiiiIkis ol The Tartan si.ill m.i\ I* pint h.ivtl .it tlw lollou mg i.itrv .1'." \ \*f 7.V (a.. 5* * 7* S2.WIca.. 8" x 10" S.VIIDra.. Inni<si-<l |k-isoiis should slop h\ tinTartan oiliies (lining hiisitH ss horns. PrinKil ;! I \ill Int .. Ilttshui^h. PA.

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1980The TartanPage 3
Prof. Roger Wertheimer
On The Implications of Computer Science 
Friday, September 5, 2:30PM, Room 
5409 of Science Hall was SRO, the 
crowd spilling out of both doorways 
into the Hall, all for a program entitled 
The Moral Implications of Computer 
Science. An incredible crowd, I 
thought, to listen to anyone talk about 
the moral implications of anything.
The program was informal. Five 
CMU Computer Science faculty 
members made quite off the cuff 
remarks. An open discussion was to fol
low. I had to leave after an hour, at the 
end of the fourth speech. I had hoped to 
stay till the discussion: an invitation to 
the Philosophy faculty had been sent, so 
I assumed the program sponsors wanted 
some sort of professional response. 
That responsibility seemed to fall to me, 
the Senior Moral Philosopher on the 
staff and the only one in attendance. 
(Divine Irony: the other two Philo
sophy faculty professionally concerned 
with the moral implications of things 
were at that hour busy in the Comp 
Center initiating their students into the 
mysteries of a computer assisted logic 
instruction program!) Herewith is that 
response.
The speakers were engagingly quite 
without pretensions. It was insisted that 
they had been given short notice and 
their function was hardly more than to 
get some ideas out into the room for the 
crowd to have something to talk about. 
None made any claims to expertise on 
the topic. So, I assume, I insult no one 
by saying that nothing notably pro
found or novel was said; that is neither 
surprising nor objectionable. Nonethe
less the program was interesting. If 
nothing else, here were some of the 
worlds smartest and most knowledgea
ble people in the held of computer
science; that they would say whatever 
they said on this topic was itself ol 
interest.
Unfortunately, what was mainly of 
interest was that rather little was said on 
the topic. The program seemed mistitled. For, though repeated reference 
was made to the infamous Manhattan 
Project and to the recent recombinant 
DNA to-do and to scientific research in 
general, not much was said by any of the 
speakers (and nothing by some) specifi
cally about computer science. The word 
computer disappeared from the dis
cussion. And the word implication 
fared no better, being bloated to cover 
diverse connections. Instead of center
ing on the moral issues arising in conse
quence of (computer) science (e.g., 
problems of privacy), mostly the talk 
focused on conditions of research, the 
freedom and responsibilities of the 
researcher. This latter is a worthy topic, 
and I shall, in a subsequent installment., 
say some things about the speakers 
interests in and attitudes on the subject. 
But before getting to that, some prelimi
naries are necessary, as the speakers 
themselves recognized.
When computer and implication 
receive such treatment from the special
ists in their use, small wonder if moral 
gets somewhat mismanaged. Not that 
anyone categorized consequences as 
good or evil, moral or immoral in inde
fensible ways. Far from it. When they 
moralize (to use the pejorative term for 
it) they acquitted themselves as knowl
edgeable, authentically concerned, civ
ilized human beings, warts and all. 
Their moral conclusions were, however 
arguable, enlightened and distinctly 
liberal. The justifications presented 
were sketchy, but reasonable, intelli
gent, allusions to familiar stories told 
more fully by others. The trouble was 
not with the quality of the moral 
thought, as far as it went, but its quan
tity. The speakers seemed reluctant to 
make real moral judgments, especially 
controversial ones.
This shyness seemed connected with 
another kind of selfconsciousness. Each 
speaker at some point slipped into the 
metalinguistic mode: instead of mak
ing moral j udgments and arguments for 
or against some policy or practice, he 
was making judgments about the 
nature of moral judgment and argu
ment. Instead of expressing his beliefs 
and reasoning about what was right or 
wrong, he expressed doubts about 
whether the audience had any good rea
son to accept hisor anymoral beliefs 
and reasoning. And, as happens with 
^tying ones shoes and other activities 
more commonly practiced than des
cribed, the speakers thinking about 
moral thinking seemed to leave them 
awkward and apologetic.
The bare fact that, each and all, they 
were moved to methodological musings 
is itself a curiosity. After all, why should 
the topic, The Moral Implications of 
Computer Science stimulate four of 
four speakers to speculations on 
whether questions of conscience have 
objectively right answers and objec
tively wrong ones? Why should this 
occasion provoke implicit denials that 
your hands might be dirty however 
clean your conscience and pure your 
will and intent? Why would anyone 
deny that his conscience could be 
undeveloped or maldeveloped, so that, 
though he sincerely believed himself 
quite innocent and justified, he was in 
plain fact guilty, indeed, as they say,
Creativity
guilty as sin?
Of course, none of the speakers put 
their speculations in quite those terms. 
Of course.
But then, none of them would have 
called his statements speculations. 
These, their most philosophical utter
ances, they tossed off as commonplaces. 
They apologetically insisted that their 
modest moral judgments might be the 
subject of controversy, but the implica
tions of that fact----a matter intensely
debated by philosophers----they
alluded to as though they were plati
tudes known and agreed to by all, as 
though some form of moral relativism 
were the common sense of every edu
cated person, or at least every reasonable 
member of that crowd.
And they seemed to be right about at 
least this much; though there were one 
or two interesting moral disagreements 
between them, they were comfortably as 
one in their conception of moral judg
ment and reasoning.
But now, why should they all say 
something that everyone knew that 
everyone knew? The repeated public 
reaffirmation of something everyone 
'knows' that everyone knots'. That has 
the sound of a ritual.
No doubt some of the self conscious
ness stemmed from the performance 
being public. All of us all of the time 
are, unavoidably making moral judg
ments, generally without conflict or 
drama, and generally only to ourselves 
or at most to an intimate group. Making 
moral pronouncements before a sizea
ble audience is quite another matter. 
However, its not just that the pro
nouncement is public. Call the judg
ment moral and many folks choke on 
their words, embarrassed to be thought 
continued on page 18
Darwin and Shakespeare: Its all the same
Are you creative?
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, professor of com
puter science and psychology at CMU and 
Nobel Prize (Economics) winner in 1978, 
posed some interesting ideas on creativity 
,, at last weeks H&SS sponsored colliquium 
for students, faculty and staff?
Simon calls creativity high level or 
high quality thinking. Someone is consi
dered creative when he or she finds a uni
que and useful solution to a problem. The 
creative individual does not think differ
ently from a less creative one. Instead, he or 
she is more selective in looking for possible 
solutions to problems, and recognizes a 
solution when it appears.
One of the key elements in Simons talk 
was that the creative processes in science 
and art are virtually identical, regardless of 
the differences in these two cultures. In 
other words, the method was the same for 
Shakespeare to write his 38 plays and Dar
win to formiuate his theory of evoluuon. 
Creativity produces successful problem
solving; the problems can be anything 
from literature to biology.
What is creative?
In this mode of thought, there is a point 
to be made concerning the products of 
creativity. While it is generally accepted 
that great works of art are emotionally 
expressive and valuable to the public (espe
cially art lovers) the beauty and worth of 
science is often less recognized, except by a
small minority of serious scientists.
It is unfortunate that many in our 
society misinterpret science as a.dry and 
somewhat irrelevant combination of ram
bling mathematical equations with a few 
Greek letters thrown in to confuse people. 
This thinking misses the point, which is 
an important one.
As a serious scientist knows, a scientific 
theory or formula is a precious thing. One 
fairly simple mathematical statement
Boh 
Leighty
explains how one important part of our 
world works. Or, as with Einsteins theory 
of reladvityr a statement helps explain the 
workings of the entire universe. Such a 
creauon is truly a thing of beauty.
Do creative efforts differ?
A second and more controversial point 
concerns the effort needed to be creadve in 
science and the arts. If the creadve pro
cesses are the same, why do some pursuing 
creativity in science (i.e. students) claim
that they expend more effort than would 
be necessary for creativity in the arts?
Having spent two years in engineering 
at Penn State before changing to technical 
wridng at CMU, I can understand this 
claim, although I dont agree with it. I 
propose this response:
Simon emphasized in his talk that to be 
creauve one must be familiar with a sub
ject for an extended time (he suggests ten 
years). I make the generalizadon that most 
individuals through high school age are 
exposed to the arts (especially English) 
than to the specialized sciences (physics, 
biology, etc) in and even more so outside 
of school. Thus, in college it is more diffi
cult to leam chemical engineering than 
English composidon or American history. 
Also, through socializadon science is pro
jected to be more difficult than the arts, 
thus psychologically it often is more diffi
cult. For most people, succeeding in 
science shouldnt be a problem  but 
some simply arent prepared for it.
More useful: science or the arts?
A third and even more controversial 
point concerns the usefulness of creauvity 
in science and the arts. The major role of 
science and technology in our society has 
been acknowledged, if not accepted, by vir
tually everyone. The usefulness of the arts, 
especially in recent years, has been 
quesuoned.
The arts, which include the English lan
guage and communicadon skills, have 
often been vastly underrated in impor
tance. All the science in the world is useless 
if we dont know where and why to apply 
it. All the science in the world is useless if 
we cant communicate to each other how 
to use it. Certainly, at least a basic working 
knowledge of the arts is important, since 
we need it to understand our science and 
ourselves.
Sure, but who will hire a life and 
human understanding major? It has not 
been said here that the arts are important 
while science is not; instead, a knowledge 
of both is vital for one to survive in this 
technically advanced and rapidly chang
ing world.
As someone who has had educational 
experiences in both science and the arts, I 
do not claim any overpowering knowl
edge or wisdom in either. In fact, I am 
sincerely humbled by my ignorance in 
both areas. What I do claim is an apprecia
tion of both and a desire to leam more.
It is a tragedy when individuals do not 
pursue knowledge in both science and the 
arts. The arts tell man what to look for and 
science tells him how to find it. If we do 
not combine these two branc hes of creauve 
knowledge, man has no reason or ability to 
exist.
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in Tech
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
New solar lab built 
to.help heat Schlag
by Jennifer Hutton
A solar lab is currently being con
structed in the mezzanine area of Hammerschlag Hall. This research and 
educational facility for solar heating 
will be used primarily by graduate stu
dents and faculty. Dr. Wilfred Rouleau 
of the Mechanical Engineering Depart
ment stated that there are also tentative 
plans for undergraduate use, particu
larly in the Junior Thermodynamics 
course and in the Senior Mech. E. 
design project.
Several local corporations have supp
lied equipment for the lab and the 
remaining expenses have been met by a 
$ 175,000 grant from the Laural Founda
tion. The solar lab, however, is not 
expected to be functional until the first 
of the year.
One of the solar panels has cracked, 
and the donor, Pittsburgh Plate Glass, 
no longer manufactures the needed 
model. Despite this, Professor Rouleau 
believes that they will find a new one 
somewhere. Assuming a new panel is 
located, Rouleau believes theTe is still 
about three months of plumbing which 
needs to be completed before the unit is 
operational.
Professor Rouleau explained how the 
finished product will function: There 
are twenty-eight solar collectors which 
will heat a mixture of ethylene glycol, 
water, and antifreeze which will in turn 
heat water stored in a thousand gallon 
tank. The hot water is then circulated 
through a heat pump which takes the 
heat from the hot water and transfers it 
to air. .
Stover new director
Since the entire solar unit has the 
potential capacity to provide fifty per
cent of the heat for an average size home, 
the heat generated from the lab will be 
used as supplementary heating for 
Hammerschlag Hall.
The Laurel Foundation began the 
project with a grant which was to be 
used specifically for the development of 
a solar lab in the University. Then sev
eral local corporations followed suit: 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass, The Carrier 
Corporation, Allegheny Engineering 
Company, and Stoys Town Tank and 
Steel Corporation donated such necessi
ties as 28 solar panels, a heat pump, an 
air handler and a thousand gallon water 
tank, respectively.University solar lab scheduled for completion in January 1981.photo by Robert Zusman
Baylor coed in Playboy
Denied permission to attend graduation
Judy Wardlaw, Baylor University's "Playmate"
Judy Wardlaw, a theater major at 
Baylor University, got her diploma last 
month, but was told not to attend the 
graduation ceremonies.
She was being punished.
Well-liked and an excellent student, 
Wardlaw did not violate any official 
university laws. She was not caught 
With any illegal drugs, or found cheat
ing. on an exam; nothing that serious. 
Her only sirt was to agree to have her 
picture taken -/in the nude.
Her appearance in Playboy's September issue feature on women froni
UFS urges communication with students
by Bob Harr
The new Director of Food Service 
under the Marriott system is Ken Stover. 
Mr. Stover and Mariott have taken over 
the operation handled last year exclu
sively by CMU.
Since starting here, he has made a 
number of changes. For instance, the 
Tartan Grills menu has been cut back 
in hopes of getting it into a fast food 
service. Once this has been accomp
lished, the menu may be expanded to 
include chili and platters, using the 
design of Marriotts Roy Rogers restau
rants. A new Marriott menu is being
used this year, and Mr. Stover has 
included a vegetarian entree with every 
meal. He is also trying to restore service 
in Morewood to the way it was last year.
Another change which occured last 
week was the lengthening of the Kiltie 
Cafes breakfast time to 10:45 a.m. This 
change was the result of a comment 
made by a student. Stover encourages 
students to come to him with reasonable 
ideas. His objective is to maintain food 
and service at high standards.
Mr. Stover may be seen at meal times 
in the campus food facilities. He wants 
to listen to students and talk with them 
about Food Service. To aid in communication, this week he will be starting a 
comment table where he , an adminis
tration representative, and a representa
tive of the facility will be present to talk 
with students during dinner. The com
ment table will be held regularly and 
will rotate between the Kiltie Cafe, the 
Tartan Grill and Morewood.
Mr. Stover attended school at the Cullinery Institute in New Haven, Connec
ticut. Graduating in May of 1972, he 
started working for Marriott in July of 
that year. He has since worked in the 
cafeteria and hotel divisions of Marriott 
and food service at the Smithsonian 
Institute.
southwestern universities was just the 
most recent chapter of a controversial 
drama played out at Baylor, a strict 
Baptist academic institution.
When the anger and publicity finally 
cleared, left in the rubble was the resig
nation of half the student newspaper 
staff and a well-respected journalism 
professor, a major shake-up of scholar
ship distribution by the journalism 
department, and the prolonged harrassment of Judy Wardlaw and a slew of 
student journalists. The school also 
endured the embarassment of its dis
gruntled students transferring to the 
University of Texas. And it all started 
because Playboy decided to take a few 
pictures.
Though Wardlaw was unable to give 
her parents the satisfaction of seeing her 
with the rest of the graduates at com
mencement in August, she was proba
bly more fortunate than other key actors 
in the story. Aker a disciplinary hear
ing, Wardlaw was only midly scolded as 
school officials belatedly tried to bury 
the story, as well as its bad publicity for 
the university.
Free Speech Issue
It was obvious they didnt like the 
publicity the story got, Wardlaw 
observes. It had become a national 
thing and they didnt want to do some
thing bad to me, and thus bring the 
whole thing up again.
continued on page 6
YES VIRGINIA,
THERE IS A SPEECH CLUB
And it meets every Tuesday evening, 6:30 p.m. in 
Skibo Room 11. All those interested in improving 
their public speaking, or looking for a group to 
debate with here at Carnegie-Mellon, are invited to 
join. For more information call John at x4410.
Sing With The 
CMU ORCHESTRAS
CMU PHILHARMONIC 
CMU CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
CMU SYMPHONIC WIND 
ENSEMBLE
Information and Placement AuditionsMusic Office 
FA 105 ext. 2J72

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1980The TartanPage 5
security system, but if students arein and around the campus community.located, as well as possibly instituting apeople will be attracted,
fSl CLEANING DAy
k ANSWf*
g^OQOQQQOorfGit Class
TraditionalColoradoSeahawk
StarlightBouquetUnique
Next Week
Pick your favorite ArtCarved class ring. Cut it out. 
Keep it with you for a while. Get an idea what its 
like to own the ring that says, I did it!
Then, next week, have the genuine article fitted 
by. the ArtCarved representative visiting campus. 
For one week only, youll have our newest selection 
of ring styles to choose from  and a specialist 
who will make sure the fit is perfect. Plus, there 
will be some incredible ArtCarved offers to cut the 
cost of your class ring . . .
CUT your ties with the past during our Great 
Ring Exchange!" Trading your old 10K gold high 
school ring for a new ArtCarved college ring could 
save you as much as $90.
CUT the cost of a traditional or contemporary 
Siladium ring to just $79.95  a special ArtCarved 
Ring Week" discount up to $20.
CUT a smashing figure with a women's class ring 
from our exciting new Designer Diamond Collec
tion."
Any way you cut it, next week is the best week to select your ArtCarved class rmg!
^COLLEGE RINGS
SYMBOLIZING YOUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE
SEPTEMBER 23,24,25 
10 AM - 4 PMCMU BOOK STOREBAKER HALL
Deposit required. MasterCharge or VISA accepted.
Senate approves committee chairmen, United Way request
Library seeks improvement program
Also, as a result of the number of 
students that get out of class at 10:30, the 
Kiltie Cafe will close for breakfast at 
10:45 and will re-open for lunch at 
11:15, thus allowing these students to 
eat breakfast after class. Food Service is 
also contemplating opening Salads 
Plus in the evenings for dinner.
A request was made by Dean Swank 
for Student Senate to nominate several 
students to serve on various committees 
here at CMU. Among those needed are 
five people for the Faculty Senate on 
Student Affairs, five to ten people for
interested in the idea, Michalak may 
consider it.
Michalak, who has only been on 
campus since Saturday, says that he 
likes CMU. I think its a nice, friendly 
institution, and a good size.
Pan-African Festival
Spirit sets theme of 2 day event
by Janelle Molloy
Laurie Elm was elected vice
chairperson of Student Senate at last 
Tuesdays meeting when Chris Deveau 
resigned from that position. Her 
resignation was a result of a conflict 
with other commitments.
Rick Sable was chosen to replace 
Laurie Elm as chairperson of Academic 
Affairs.
Kim Ames, Student Senate 
Chairperson, then announced the 
resignation of Eric Butler from his 
position as chairperson of the Finance
continued from page 1
to do a better job. I feel a definite 
commitment on the part of the 
administration to improve this library 
and will be as fast with improving 
services as they will in providing the 
funds.
Yale University has published a book  
entitled Insiders Guide to Colleges, 
which describes Hunt Library as 
woefully inadequate. I think a lot of 
faculty would agree with that, said 
Michalak, I think my job is to see that 
in five years we can go from woefully 
inadequate to adequate. The question 
now he believes, along a realistic effort 
to meet current demands, and not 
worrying about what we didnt do 10 or 
20 years ago.
Michalak has a lot of ideas for 
improving Hunts facilities. He would 
like to have a better signage to show 
students where various sections are
Committee. Art Benjamin was elected 
to take his place.
John Alexander, Student Govern
ment President, relayed a request by the 
United Way to have the CMU Student 
Senate participate in their annual fund 
drive here on campus. The motion was 
passed.
A report on the status of Food Service 
was also read by John Alexander. Mr. 
Stover, Director of Food Service, said 
that the response to the all-you-can-eat 
cafeteria in Morewood Gardens was 
marginal and that the situation would 
be examined and hopefully improved.
program to instruct students on how to 
use the library. Currently there is no 
reference service provided in the 
evenings, and Michalak would like to 
change that if he receives a budget 
increase which would allow him to do 
so.
Aside from purchasing better 
materials and contemporary books, 
Michalak hopes to provide greater 
accessibility of information through 
data-bases which would enable students
to search for books by means of 
computer terminals. This project, 
which should take about three years to 
complete, is already under way, and will 
hopefully be ready for demonstration 
this spring.
Another idea that Michalak has is the 
possibility of keeping the 1st floor of 
Hunt open 24 hours during finals. 
There would be a need for some sort of
by L. Vernon Valentine
Return to the Source: A Cultural 
Awakening is the theme and title of 
SPIRITs two day Pan-African Festival 
scheduled for Saturday, October 4th and 
Sunday, October 5th. Designed to 
acquaint the campus and surrounding 
community with the diverse cultures 
which stem from the continent of 
Africa, the event promises a wide range 
of activities and exhibits.
SPIRIT functions to actively pro
mote political and cultural awareness
the Auxiliary Services Advisory 
committee, two people for the 
University Parking committee, and two 
for the Security committee.Peer Help
continued from page 1
The Peer Help staff last year num
bered 25 counselors. Since then 11 
members graduated, and 4 dropped out, 
including the old co-directors of the 
tutoring program. This years staff of 
trained counselors is down to 7. Peer 
Help needs counselors. Williams said, 
20 people signed up, at the activities 
fair, but we need 20 more!
Peer Help trains students to be 
counselors. In their training sessions 
they learns general office procedures, 
self-awareness exercises, social systems, 
and counseling in general. The train
ing sessions meet every Monday evening 
from 7-10PM for 8 weeks. The first ses
sion begins September 29.
as well as to serve the political and cul
tural needs of the Universitys Black stu
dents. Typical of SPIRIT-sponsored 
events are the Congressman John Cony
ers lecture of last semester, and the Dick 
Gregory lecture of the previous year.
James Patterson, coordinator of 
SPIRIT, expects community response 
to the festival to be very positive. Patter
son reasons that with attractions such as 
the nation-touring Morgan State Uni
versity Choir and the popular local reg
gae band, Rastafari, a diverse range of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
T COLLEGE
__________________ 'I WM I 'U hA.^ fi! I1 
a~  Jf ^4** wwsl,
JUUfl.heemsl ty*N "VV\ft+ the or\\y
^ reason legist 
0 L \*\ S V> ecavse y.  owe' ^A-tA qo+- boTcd -(^JtrV'Ti VyiCS
\ ItlU
- m-x crffanning:
Tuesday, September 16, 1980 
at Thistle Hall (Dance Studio) in 
CMU Gymnasium Time: 6:30 PM 
Regular training schedule is:
Tues. & Thurs. 6:10 - 8:30 PM
Saturday 11:30 - 1:30 PM
CMUKC is a member organization of 
Shotokan Karate of America 
(a nonprofit educational association) 1 
Repesentatives from the Central Intelligence Agencys Office of 
Data Processing will be conducting an open seminar at 5:30 PM 2 
October 1980, Room 5403, Science Hall, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Interested students majoring in Computer Science, Math, 
Engineering, or related subjects are invited to attend. Employment 
interviews may be scheduled by contacting the CMU Career Planning 
and Placement Office. CIA will conduct interviews on campus 
October 22, 23,1980. For further information, contact the CMU Math 
Dept.
BT DIANE THODO^N
Students lose scholarships over Playboy controversy
continued from page 4
The controversy first arose when Bay
lor President Abner McCall sternly 
warned last January that any university 
student who posed nude for Playboy, 
then trolling the campus for models, 
would be expelled.
In response, the Baylor Lariat, the 
student paper, published editorials con
demning McCalls policy, and support
ing the right of women to decide for 
themselves whether to appear in the 
magazine.
Infuriated by the papers boldness in 
opposing the administration, which is 
technically the papers publisher, and 
its interpretation of Christian princi
ples, McCall order Board of Publica
tions Director Ralph Strother to fire the 
Lariats three senior editors - Jeff Bar
ton, Barry Kolar, and Cindy Slovak. 
The entire Board affirmed that decision 
unanimously, despite Bartons lastminute appeal.
At issue was not only the right of 
Baylor women to appear nude in a 
national magazine, but the editorial 
freedom of the student newspaper. 
McCall insisted that as president he was 
the papers publisher, and had the final 
say over the content of its editorials. The 
papers editors argued McCalls inter
vention violated their right to free 
expression. In the end, McCall won.
Even after they were removed from 
the Lariat, the three former editors 
encountered a series of administration 
pressure tactics to force them out of 
Waco.
Journalism Department Chairman
Loyal Gould told us we should look 
for other schools for the next semester, 
former editor Slovak recalls.
MissHg Scholarships
Though they were never formally 
asked to leave, Slovak says the adminis
tration repeatedly argu d they would be 
much happier on another campus.
Feeling they had no alternative, 
Slovak and Burton transferred to the 
University of Texas, while Kolar gradu
ated. He is now working on a daily 
paper in Waco.
Five other former staff members also 
transferred to Texas, but not before 
coming under the same kinds of pres
sures Slovak experienced.
Im sure I would have gotten a large 
scholarship for my senior year, and I 
know that other members of the paper 
that had been promised scholarships 
from the journalism department would 
have received them. But if they had 
sided with us, there was no way they 
were going to receive any financial help 
from the university, Slovak says.
Baylor officials dont deny it. They 
confess that students who were expected 
to receive generous journalism scholarA Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center 
or Century III Mall.
ships were denied them because of their 
support for the dismissed editors' 
stance.
Remarkable Courage
There seemed to be little reason to 
give funds, which are in short supply, to 
those who hold this university in dis
dain, Gould says.
Just a>s readily, administration offi
cials provided incentives for journalism 
students, especially those on the student 
paper, who sided with the 
administration.
When the issue first started to heat up, 
almost the entire staff threatened to
resign if the editors were forced to 
quit. But when it became clear the 
administration would play hardball 
and deny dissident students essential 
financial aid, many changed their 
minds.
For those who did lose their scholar
ships, all is not lost. A group, consisting 
mostly of lawyers and journalists, has 
raised almost $3000 to subsidize the stu
dents who either transferred to Texas or 
remained at Baylor. Organized by law
yer Robert Warden, it began several 
months ago, and will Hand over its col
lection to nine of the students within 
the next few weeks.
Warden estimates the students may 
only get about half the money they 
would have received had they kept silent 
on the issue, but theyve also earned a 
measure of professional respect and 
admiration.
Rather than hurting their journal
ism careers, Warden opines, I think 
they have greatly helped them. Any edi
tor must admire this display of 
principles._____________________________
KARATE (MB
Announces Beginners Classes
CARNEGIE
MELLON
UNIVERSITY

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Dorm decore: CMUs lofty approach
Donner Hall 108
by Melody Mazzie
Look around you. Is your dorm room 
nothing but a walk-in closet? Did the 
roaches evacuate in search of a more 
comfortable home? Does the sterility of 
the walls remind you of the Student 
Health Center?
If you can answer yes to any or all of 
these questions, then your place of resi
dence is in need of help.
For those students who are feeling 
despair at the thought of living in a hole 
for the next nine months, here are some 
ideas to perk up your pad.
Lofts are a popular asset, to many 
rooms at CMU Bill Sell and Mike 
Moyta, fourth year Architecture majors, 
have equipt their Donner Hall room
with a carpeted loft and built-in bar 
with matching stools. Their desks fit 
underneath the loft, leaving room for 
book shelves, a bean bag chair, and a 
floor lamp. All this for the low low price 
of $600  an investment the size of a 
semesters PHEAA grant!
Juniors Brad Frison and Steve Balsone paid $50 for their loft. Formerly in 
a room two doors over, the loft had to be 
moved from one room to the other. A 
team of eight guys removed the win
dows of the first room, slid the loft out
side, removed the windows of the 
second room, and slid the loft back in 
again. Due to its tremendous size, the 
loft could not fit into the hallway.Using
Donner Hall 104Photo by Dave Huchette
Donner Hall 213
the bed frames and box frames left over 
from their beds, Brad and Steve were 
then able to make a couch which fits 
underneath the loft.
When you walk into the room of 
Donner residents Roger Heberle and 
Mike Vollero, you immediately feel like 
youre in a time warp. Bamboo beads 
hanging from the doorway and fish net
ting draped along the ceiling give the 
wall to wall carpeted room an almost 
60s appearance. Their loft also allows 
room for a couch.
Some of the most amazing lofts stem 
from the ranks of Mudge House. Eric 
Emerson, a sophomore Electrical Engi
neering major and Music graduate 
Brian Hysong have a three-tiered bunk 
bed which develops into a loft that 
stretches from wall to wall with the cap
ability of holding twelve men when a 
center support is added.
Another room in Mudge, occupied by 
Patrick Farrell, Mike Vanner, Steve Far
rell, and Bill Dignon, has a V-shaped, 
three-man loft with a set of shelves built 
into it. A huge confederate flag covers 
the ceiling, and a mural of Earth as seen 
from the moon is wall papered on an 
entire wall.
The quad of Jack Williams, Shawn
Photo by Dave Huchette
Nee, Keith Jackson, and Scott Alburger 
have another type of three-man loft that 
juts out in a Y-shape. They also have a 
built-in bar with counter top. In a 
departure from the traditional posters, 
theyve covered one wall with a serape 
from Acapulco.
Probably the most intriguing room is 
the Morewood Penthouse which 
opens right onto the root. Juniors 
Chris Garrity. Mary Wallman, and 
Cindy Wright have little work to do in 
order to make their triple unusual. 
Cindy, however, found means to pri
vacy by building a loft inside of a large 
walk-in closet.
Not everyone has the money or desire 
to build a loft, but there are still plenty 
of things you can do to give your room 
an extra pizazz).
Sophomore cross-country star Mark 
Knapp painted his drab glue-stained 
Donner wall in a cream color and then 
embellished it in sky blue with the Nike 
emblem. The exactnedd of the lettering 
and the extent to which it covers the 
wall form a powerful image that almost 
jumps at the observer as it blazes across 
the bricks.
A little paint, a few poster and maybe 
a plant here or there can go a long way. 
Be creative!!!Three actresses spend summer in OKLAHOMA!
by Anne Lux
It was like being at summer campKaren Babcock said.
We were all a big family, Sue Burkhimer agreed.
Both musical theater seniors were talk
ing about their experiences at the Totem 
Pole Playhouse, where, along with senior 
drama student Pam Putch, they appeared 
this summer in Rodgers and Hammersteins popular musical, OKLAHOMA!
The Totem Pole Playhouse is a profes
sional, self-supporting summer theater 
located just outside of Gettysburg, Pa. Sur
rounded by the beautiful Caledonia State 
Park, the atmosphere is indeed one of a 
summer camp.
The Playhouse really is a family expe
rience for Pam, whose father, William H. 
Putch, produces the productions there, as 
well as running the theater.
"It was originally a dance hall, Pam 
said. Then 28 years ago it was converted 
into a theater. The next year, my father 
took over.
Pam and herbrother, John Putch, both 
began performing at the Totem Pole at the 
age of five. In Oklahoma, John played 
Will Parker to Pams Ado Annie. When 
asked how it felt to play her brothers swee
theart, Pam replied, John and I have been 
working together more and more the past 
few yeais. and have a lot of respect for each 
other's work. We're bccamang very ewnwere so comfortable, we forget to look at 
each other when were on stage!
Their mother, actress Jean Stapleton, 
also appears frequently at the Totem Pole 
Playhouse. In OKLAHOMA!, she played 
the role of Aunt Eller. Pam feels very fortu
nate to be able to work and spend time 
with her family in such an atmosphere. 
Its not every family that can do that.
In 1977, Pam went on a national tour of 
eleven cities in DAISY MAME, which 
starred her mother and was directed by her 
father.
Pams favorite roles include that of Lettie the maid in the Agatha Christie spoof, 
SOMETHINGS AFLOAT.
I really love playing maids, Pam 
laughed. Ive done it so many timesI think. I really love doing the musicals, 
too. Something magic happens between
the audience and performers in a musical 
that isnt there in a straight play. Music is 
like fairy dust in a play.
Sue Burkhimer was kept very busy in the 
lead role of Laurey. Her character was on 
stage in almost every scene, and was 
required to sing, dance and act.
There are usually two Laureys in a 
production of OKLAHOMA!, Sue 
explained. One who plays the principal 
part, and one who dances in the dream 
sequence, the Laurey Makes Up Her 
Mind Ballet
Since Sue has been dancing most of her 
life, she played both roles.
I think its more effective that way, she 
said The audience doesnt have to adjsut 
to a new Laurey.
Sue is a native of Los Angeles, though 
her family has recendy moved to Bronxville, New York. In 1978, the Drama 
Department granted her an internship to 
play the role of Liesl in the Los Angeles 
Civic Light Opera production erf THE 
SOUND OF MUSIC, which starred Flor
ence Henderson and Edward Mulhare. 
Here at CMU shes been in such produc
tions as BRIGADOON, UNCOMMON 
WOMEN and AS YOU LIKE IT.
OKLAHOMA! marked Karen Bab
cocks first professional performance, a 
landmark in every acting career. Playing a 
character named Ellen, her dancing was 
featured in almost every musical number.
The shows choreographer, CamegieMellons Myron Howard Nadel, com
mented, When youve got dancers like 
Karen and Sue to work with, you make the 
most erf their talents. Theyre both 
exceptional.
Karen, who is from New Jersey, said, 
Everyone was so nice and friendly that I 
wasnt nervous about it being my first pro
fessional job. We all bad a really good 
time.
Karen and Sue agreed that their work at 
the Totem Pole Playhouse was a great 
learning experience. They both felt fortu
nate to be able to work with William 
Putch, who they described as a great direc
tor, and with jean Stapleton: Shes a 
wonderful actress and a very warm per
son^ All three gtris emphammd, "If was

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
Culture and decadence at Carnegie Institute
by Bob Brenner
Thurs., Sept. 11 STEPHANIE BEROES, 
visiting filmmaker, will present her new 
film DEBT BEGINS AT 20 and other 
works. Partly scripted and pardy docu
mentary, DEBT portrays aspects of the 
contemporay music scene in Pittsburgh. 
This poetic film has been well received in 
England and Gennany, but this is its first 
public showing in Beroes native city. The 
Cardboards, a modem rock band featured 
in the film, will play at a reception follow
ing the presentation. 8:00 $1.00
-from the film program guide, CarThe museum 
staffers, et al, were 
dressed for a 
cocktail party.
negie Institute, Film Section, Museum of 
ArtThe museum security guards began 
turning people away at five after eight. 
The two-hundred seat theater in the Film 
Section at the back of Scaife Gallery was 
already overflowing; many people, in fact, 
were sitting in the aisles or on folding 
chairs. The crowd was an odd mixture: 
about a third of the audience was made up 
of museum staff, local filmmakers, and 
patrons of the arts. The rest were punk.
The two groups were easily distin
guished: The museum staffers, filmmak
ers, et al., were dressed for a cocktail party. 
The punks wore whatever they could sca
venge from Army and Navy surplus stores, 
Salvadon Army distributors, second hand
shops, and the occasional trash bin. Look
ing at the scene-co-mingling, as it did, two 
very different sets of lifeforms from two 
very different galaxies-was like watching 
a TV screen when interference causes one 
channel to slide into another.
The head of the Film Section stood in 
front of the theater and made a few brief 
introductory remarks. He seemed nervous 
(he stumbled once or twice over his words 
and shifted his stance), as if he half
expected Pittsburghs contemporary 
music scene to suddenly rise out of their 
seats in a spontaneous display of anarchis
tic passion and smash the museums 
carefully-manicured exhibits for the sake 
of disorder. Finally, he retreated to the rela
tive safety of his seat and the theater 
darkened.
The artists, of course, came for the art. 
The punks were there to cheer their own: 
Debt Begins at 20 stars, in no particular 
order, The Cardboards, The Shakes (now 
know as Combo Tactic for phonetic rea
sons), and The Dykes, three bands that 
have been among the principle New Music 
makers in this town. And, of course, a 
party was anticipated afterwards: The 
Cardboards--a modem rock bandwould make one of their rare public 
appearances in the Childrens Room of the 
museum following the screening.
There were three films on the evenings 
bill. The first one, Valley Fever, is a slow 
and sometimes tediously abstract explora
tion of delirium and reality; it stars palm 
trees, bright sunlight, and a woman in a 
swim suit lying on a lounge chair by the 
side of a pool. Parts of the audience grew 
restless; punks, as a general rule, like 
action. A young woman in the back of the 
theater (presumably drunk, from her
slurred diction) shouted an editorial com
ment: This is better than Rocky Horror! 
That ejaculation touched off a loud 
exchange of expletive-deleteds between 
the original commentator and dissenting 
members of the audience (punks are also 
very up front about their feelings), which 
provided interesting counterpoint to the 
blurry palm trees and sweat-slicked thighs 
on the screen. There was a polite round of 
applause at the end of Fever, but it lacked 
conviction.
The second film, Recital, a feminist 
piece, fared better. Comments were kept to 
a minimum. A discussion of the gender 
politics involved in insults (calling a 
woman a cow implies she is stupid and 
complacent; terming a man a bull signi
fies he is virile and strong) provoked cheers 
and hand-clapping. When Recital ended, 
the applause was sincere.
The biggest ovation of the evening, 
however, was reserved for Debt Begins at 
20; this was what the horde came for. Debt, 
a sort of free-form collage of punk fantasies 
and realities, stars Bill Bored, the drummer
Thebiggest ovation 
of the evening was 
reserved for/Debt 
begins at 20
for The Cardboards. Concert footage of the 
three bands is interspersed with nihilistic 
interviews (sample: How would you like 
to die? In my sleep.) and assorted
punking-out. Every song performed, every 
appearance of familiar locales (Allies, The 
Holiday Bar) and famous members of the 
punk community, triggered applause. 
The commentator was escorted out by 
security guards, and this too was praised.
There was a final roar of approval when 
the lights came up again, and then a rol
ling wave of humanity into the Childrens 
Room just down the hall. Wine and cheese 
were set out for the celebrants, and this was 
quickly consumed; punks, besides being 
vocal, are also high energy burners and 
often impoverished, and these two factors 
usually combine to decimate any free 
spread. The Cardboards set up, and then 
the partying began in earnest.
The Cardboards have an art-spastic style 
reminiscent of the Talking Heads at their 
most disoriented. Their choice of instru
mentation is definitely skewed: drums, 
keyboards, alto sax and vocals compose 
their sound; nary an electric guitar, not one 
single fret, was in evidence. As soon as the 
first chord was struck, the au courrant were 
out on the dance floor twitching what they 
got. Black girls dressed like the Supremes, 
white girls dressed like cheerleaders, boys 
in mechanics overalls and full combat gear 
wildly gyrated to songs about the cultural 
void in Pittsburgh and other foreign cities.
But all things must come to an end. The 
Cardboards finished their set. The security 
guards, who had been grimacing all night, 
and looked as if they wished they carried 
revolvers on their belts, began dimming 
the lights. Car Sickness, another modem 
rock band, was playing at Charleys 10< 
Saloon, and this is where everybody who 
knew anything about the ultimate mea
ninglessness of existence began to head. 
Another evening of art had passed in 
Pittsburgh.
Career Perspectives
IMPORTANT NOTICE
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS PLANNING TO 
MAKE USE OF THE CAREER SERVICES AND 
PLACEMENT OFFICE THIS YEAR SHOULD ATTEND 
ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ORIENTATION MEETINGS:
THURS SEPT 2 5 11:30 AM WHERRETT ROOM SKIBO
FRI SEPT 26 11:30 AM WHERRETT ROOM SKIBO
FRI SEPT 26 4:00 PM WHERRETT ROOM SKIBO
TUES SEPT 30 4:00 PM ROOM 7500 SCIENCE HALL
AT THESE MEETINGS, STAFF MEMBERS WILL EXPLAIN 
THE OPERATING PROCEDURES OF THE OFFICE AND 
ANSWER QUESTIONS OF GENERAL INTEREST TO 
STUDENTS WHO WILL BE SEEKING EMPLOYMENT IN 
THE MONTHS AHEAD. RECRUITING SCHEDULES, 
FORMS, AND OTHER MATERIALS WILL BE 
DISTRIBUTED AT THAT TIME.
Sponsored IOffice of C*reer Service and Placement 
Carnegie Mellon University
STUDENTSMAKE FITNESS PART OF THIS YEARS CURRICULUM AT THE
NAUTILUSFITNESSCENTERSHADYSIDE
Special Student Corner of College 
Rates Available* and Ellsworth
(next to Cafe
LIMITED TIME ONLYStephen Bs)

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1980The TartanPage 9
Viewpoint
1980 Youth vote: Will it make the difference?
by Ted Smits
Thousands of CMU students are join
ing millions of citizens across America 
in one of the most significant events of 
the 1980 presidential campaign. By ref
using to exercise their constitutional 
right to vote, a majority of the eligible 
voters are allowing a steadily declining 
percentage of the countrys population 
to select the next president.This unpub. -will supposedly 
determine the next 
leader of the free 
world. . .
licized, unorganized but highly success
ful boycott of the election which will 
supposedly determine the next leader 
of the free world may very well decide 
who will triumph in November.
Ever since the voting age was lowered 
to eighteen, political analysts and offi
cials have heralded the strength and 
importance of the youth vote. In this 
years contest independant John Ander
son is looking forward to a large 
amount of support from the youth
vote. But as recent studies of voting 
patterns and my own very unscientific 
survey of CMU students have shown, 
the youth vote is not all that its 
crknked up to be. Simply speaking, stu
dents at CMU reflect to a large degree 
the same views in regard to the upcom
ing election as does most of the 
population.
First of all, most students could care 
less, as a friend so aptly put it to me at a 
pre-Yes concert party, politics again...come on. A more true to life assess
ment of the average CMU students 
views towards politics could hardly be 
found. Few people care to take the time 
to argue the complexities of the on
going campaigns, and hardly anyone 
cares to take the time to actually work 
for a candidate. Most people, if regis
tered, simply look at the three candi
dates and say: Well its obvious that 
Anderson is the only one with any intel
ligence, so hell get my vote or Well 
Carter hasnt done such a hot job; but its 
either him or Reagan so... or Reagan 
is just what this country needs, hes 
good for business, good for white peo
ple, good for the rich and hell tell those 
Communist bastards where to go.
But a few people on campus like to 
delve into the little details, the polls, the 
debates and all the other politically 
related events. Most of these students 
show a decided preference for John 
Anderson; his liberal social policies and
outsider image all serve to make him 
very attractive to anyone sick of the pol
itical hacks who have been governing 
our country for the last decade.
President Carters supporters are 
present at CMU too, but most of them 
keep well hidden. Much of his support 
is very weak and stems from the position 
that since Anderson cant win, we have 
to elect Carter, or Reagan will be Presi
dent and then well all die. Few of Car
ters supporters try to say anything 
positive about him, Carter has to be the 
first Presidential candidate who is run
ning on a platform that is totally 
directed against one man, Ronald 
Reagan.
. .perhaps some 
of the students 
apathy will 
decrease.
ROTC students aside, Reagan does 
have a number of supporters on cam
pus, though like Carters, these suppor
ters usually keep their views well 
hidden unless theyre among fellow 
facists, (oops, I mean friends, not facists,
I wouldnt call anyone who wanted to 
vote for Reagan a facist, especially in 
the school newspaper). Reagans sim
plified approach to foreign policy, his
Reagans simplified 
approach... have certainly won him over 
a lot of 
converts at CMU.
love for the military-industrial complex 
and his appeal to white, racist, bluecollar voters have certainly won him 
over a lot of converts at CMU.
An overview of the CMUs communi
tys position on the election is hard to 
state. The so called youth vote is not 
very present. Most students like or dis
like the various candidates for the same 
reasons their parents and other older 
people do. As the election gets nearer, 
perhaps some of the students apathy 
will decrease. Rumours of an appear
ance on campus by Anderson or Reagan 
have been brought to my attention, cer
tainly an event like this would increase 
student interest. As of now, Anderson 
has the majority of the students, with 
Reagan and Carter not far behind, but 
the debates are now on and anything 
could happen in the next few weeks.Edwin Kirtner: peddling support for Anderson
by Kathy Krummert
Political campaigns are rolling 
along, increasing in momentum as 
November draws near-and so are their 
campaigners-literally. Edwin Kirtner 
is a prime example. Kirtner has been an 
unusually ardent worker, having taken 
upon himself a nationwide Anderson 
promotion by bicycling from coast to 
coast. Spacious skies, purple mountains 
majesty, and amber waves of grain-he 
has seen them all. That might not seem 
so unusual since cross-country and 
long-distance biking have become so 
popular, but Ed was not exactly a cyclist 
when he started a few months ago.
A graduate of Virginia Technical 
Institute in Materials Engineering, he 
had never voted or been involved in 
politics. In February he discovered And
ersons platform and became an advo
cate. He decided to put his advocacy on 
the road in July when he flew fr>m Nor
folk, Virginia to Portland, Oregon and
began a trip that is still in progress.
Not only is Ed new to politics, but to 
traveling as well. He had never left Vir
ginia before, never been to a large city, 
nor had he ridden a bike in ten years. A 
few weeks before he left Virginia, he 
bought a new ten-speed bike. How did 
he get in shape for his 3000 mile trek? 
He simply started riding! (When he 
reached Portland, that is!) Now he can 
'laugh as he looks back on the journal 
entries from the first week of his trip 
when he wrote that he felt like dying. 
Now he is trim (he lost 50 lbs. en route), 
deeply tanned, freckled, and very 
blonde-evidence that the sun accom
panied him for a great deal of his trip.
Until he reached Nebraska, his tent 
was his only accomodation. When he 
reached Omaha though, reknown and 
Anderson people caught up with him as 
a result of newspaper coverage from the 
cities he had passed through. Tent liv
ing and relative anonymity ceased. 
Radio and television interviews became 
common and he has been staying with 
Anderson campaign workers at each 
stop, eliminating a lot of worry about 
weather conditions each night.
People have been incredibly friendly 
and helpful along the way. Bicycle 
Bill outside Cleveland fixed his broken 
tire free of charge, for example. Ed says 
the trip has been a great opportunity to 
learn about people; its an education 
for sure...and you learn about youself.
Did all this effort ever lead to a rendez
vous with Mr. Anderson? Of course. Ed 
dined with the candidate at a $100-aplate dinner in Des Moines (in jeans no 
less, his traveling attire), and rode with 
the press in Chicagos Labor Day 
Parade amidst the pandemonium, 
followed by dinner with Mr. Anderson.
From Pennsylvania, Ed is heading 
north to New York. At this printing he
is probably pedalling through Buffalo. 
His final destination is Maine, approxi
mately three days before the November 
election.
Eds enthusiasm is contagious. When 
he talks about his trip, about Anderson, 
sincerity and energy' shine through. He 
is a firm believer in taking initiative to 
do new thingsjust because you have 
never done something before does not 
mean you cannot do it now. He and 
Anderson are on the same cycle.
Pregnant? 
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 261-1988.
' SEPTEMBER 20-27 I THE 
SPINNERS
Plaving their hit record Cupid" 
I Advance tickets on sale now! |
OCT. 31 & NOV. 1-2 
S.O.S. BAND 
, TAKE YOUR TIME
OCT. 10-11-12
AVERAGE
WHITE
BAND
NOVEMBER 18-23
PEACHES & | 
HERB ]
Reunited SHAKE YOUR 1 
GROOVE THING !
NROEVILLE  RT. 22551-1
WORK STUDY STUDENTS 
NEEDED 
to survey Pittsburgh transit 
travel times
weekday mornings 6:309:00 AM 
$4.00/hour plus travel expenses 
begin work immediately
For details contact: Ed Plank x3607 
Civil Engineering P. H. 100A

---------------------------------------------------

<TD id yoiAknow tha"
? ACTIVITIES BOARDcavtro!4 more' stwdmr avtwi/tUs
MONEYthan amj other*
oryctoviywtwTV ?
/0m\^~hi(W you heard I VoM **7 beam
CTbWVWla COFFEEHOUS flcf?
you ft* oiv ib<M^ 
yoa cam heip svicct this s/jrkiy's
* FILMS, CONCERTS & DANCES ?
CD id ym know tha
A
THURSDAY e? FRIDAY FILMS 
A* 8 DANCES, CONCERTS 
er' L CT14 RESowe aM selected, plavwcd, /rwi by students ?
(Activities Board Kguptiotv
WEDNESDAY E V E N I M Cj
HujMatidcr Room, Sk'rio, G  3o '
-refreshments provided --------------------

---------------------------------------------------

Soap star on campus
by Richard Gorelick
How is the Screen Actors Guild affect
ing the CMU campus? Indirectly because 
their is no new "hit show" to assemble 
dorm students en masse around the 
lounges television set, as did Mork and 
Mrndv in 1978 or Dallas in 1979,
lhe strike affects CMU directly because; 
a) actors are out erf work and available for 
other means of endeavor (like The John 
Davidson Show or teaching ), b) The star 
of Soap, Katherine Helmond, performed 
in several of Mel Shapiros broadway pro
ductions ( The House of Blue Leaves, The 
Kaprl Marx Play), c) Mel Shapiro is the new 
head of CMUs drama department, d) Mr. 
Shapiro asked Miss Helmond to teach a 
sophomore acting class at CMU, and e) she 
accepted.
On Friday Afternoon in Kresge Theater, 
after her first week of teaching, Miss Hel
mond engaged in a frank and lively ques
tion and answer session with 100 drama 
students, faculty members and fervent 
admirers.
For one hour, before a CBS television 
crew (filming for a November Hour Mag
azine ), Miss Helmond entertained, lec
tured and above all, inspired the gathering 
with her love of acting and her dedication 
to the profession.
Miss Helmond began by announcing 
her support for the actors strike. She was a 
constant participant in the pickets before 
her journey to CMU, and she still calls 
every day for progress reports on the strike.
Management has an immoral posi
tion, she told the audience. Theyre not 
sharing. Miss Helmond is at CMU indefi
nitely until the actors strike is over. (A 
major point of argument, dealing with 
percentages of videotape revenue has 
already been settled.)
Although she has no formal academic or 
dramatic education, Miss Helmond 
stressed the value of education, and warned 
students against becoming isolated. 
Leam everything you can. Even if you 
dont act, it will make you a better person.
Necessity is the mother of invention, 
reponded Miss Helmond when asked how 
she was able to survive on the stage with
out formal training. Indeed, in her twentyfive year career, Miss Helmond has done 
virtually everthing in the theater, from 
moving scenery to playing leading lady. 
Television has been a relatively recent 
stage in her career.
She confesses that she likes the recogni
tion and monetary security that television 
brings, but laments its artistic restrictions 
and network control. It is a medium con
trolled by producers.
Television is also restrictive in the sense 
that it impedes comedic timing, a craft 
Miss Helmond has taken a whole career to 
perfect, with its constant stops and starts 
for filming.
Soap, Miss Helmond explained, is an 
exception in that it has a writer whoisalso 
the executive producer and has had the 
same director for the first three years of the 
program.
While Miss Helmond has no formal 
training, her years in the theater have left 
her an obviously well-educated and
informed woman, as anyone who has 
played the variety of roles she has with the 
dedication she bring to her roles would be 
She has taught before, at Brown University 
and The American Music and Drama 
Academy, and, so far, her experience at 
CMU has been vitalizing and fun.
The experience for the students them
selves has been mutually exciting and 
rewarding. Drama student Dick Scanlon 
says, She is outrageously gracious. She 
makes you want to do your scenes better. 
Shes inspiring.
Inspiration seems to be the key to Miss 
Helmonds appeal at CMU. The drama 
students left the session with a renewed 
sense of purpose and direction. At points 
in the afternoon, Miss Helmond was 
nearly evangelical. She told two backstage 
wellwishers that You are the most impor
tant people in the world. You are mission
aries of love.
Although hounded by CBS reporters 
since early in the morning and only min
utes away from a ride to the airport where 
she would fly out to her home on Long 
Island for more filming, Miss Helmond 
was still kind enough to fill in The Tar
tan on some recent projects.
Over the summer, Miss Helmond com
pleted a film for television with Gary Cole
man, entided Scouts Honor/which
Katherine Helmond
She also filmed in England with 
Terry Gilliam and Michel Ohalin of 
the Monty Python Troupe for a film 
entitled Time Bandits, in which she 
plays an ogre from the middle ages. 
Sean Confiery appears as Agamemnon, 
Ian Holme as Napoleon, John Cleese as 
Robin Hood and Sir Ralph Richardson 
as God in this story of time travel.
As for Jessica, she has died and gone 
to heaven. In the first episode, which 
has already been filmed, Katherine Hel
mond plays opposite Bea Arthur, as the 
consulting angel.
At least until the actors strike is over, 
Americas loss is CMUs gain. Kathe
rine Helmond is a beautiful and inspir
ing addition to our campus.
Entertainment.
Kudos for Skibo Duo
by Ted Smits
Over 200 CMU students crowded into 
the Skibo ballroom last Wednesday night 
for an hour of interesting and entertaining 
humor from the comedy team of OBrian 
and Sevarra.
The show, presented by the Activities 
Boards Lectures Committee, featured the 
normal stand up comedy routines along 
with sound effects, impersonations and a 
lot of college oriented material.
OBrian and Sevarra set the mood of the 
evening early on with a bit about the ugli
ness of various members of the audience. 
Remember, one out of three people are 
ugly, so look to your left and your right, if 
thev are all right. then it must be you.
The sound of trains, airplanes, and even 
bronchial asthma sufferer Darth Vader 
were faithfully reproduced to back up the 
running monolouge of jokes and witty 
observations of life in college. I really 
hated junior college, that was four tough 
years. Among the Hollywood stars 
impersonated were Morris the Cat, Jimmy 
Stewart, Charles Bronson and Bing 
Crosby, all of whom appeared in a new 
updated version of Reefer Madness. 
OBrian and Severras talent and profes
sionalism was gready appreciated by the 
lucky members of the audience who found 
something to laugh at in CMU, even if it 
was a Wednesday nightWhitney reaps praise
by Anne Lux
After four years as a road company, the 
Iron Clad Agreement has finally found a 
home in Pittsburgh: Carlow Colleges 
Antonian Theatre.
This company offers an unusual and 
educational evening of theater. Their first 
production, INTERCHANGEABLE 
PARTS, is a play with music about Eli 
Whitney. Thats right, the inventor of the 
cotton gin. Whitneys life may seem a 
strange theme for a play, but the Iron Clad 
Agreement has always had a special inter
est in figures from the Industrial Revolu
tion. Says producer Julia R. Swoyer, Our 
aim has been...to let history speak for itself, 
to bring the past to the present. This year, 
all of our new productions explore the 
theme of work in America.
Eli Whitney may hardly seem to be a 
controversial figure, but that is one of the 
educational aspects of the play. Such 
themes as the effect the cotton gin had cm 
slavery are brought up. This reviewer
events in Whitneys life. Larry John Mey
ers stands out as the elderly Whitney who 
is confused by the repercussions erf his 
inventions. Ann Beigel plays a, well, rock, 
which symbolizes the obstacles Whitney 
has often met and overcome, and the con
cept that (Mice something is set in motion, 
it is difficult to stop as it was to start. The 
rock stops in mid-air, as it is crashing 
down a cliff onto unsuspecting New 
Haven, to narrate Whitneys life. Doug 
Mertz and Katherine Ames portray his 
lifes major figures. Angel Tucdarone 
accompanies on the guitar the shows 
rather foigettable songs.
In retrospect, it is hard not to admire 
what the Iron Clad Agreement is trying to 
do. In many ways they succeed: they edu
cate as well as entertain. But if you want to 
talk about the artistic and dramatic merits 
of the play itself, well, thats another story. 
The play arouses interest, but not sym
pathy, for though we leam alot about the
Katherine Ames and Doue Merts of the Iron Clad Agreement
never even considered blaming Whitney 
for the increase in slavery, but apparendy 
that is precisely what his invention 
wrought.
Another accusation hurled at Whitney is 
that his system of interchangeable parts 
triggered the end of excellence in craftmanship. It raises the inferior up to the stand
ard, but also lowers the superior to it.
The play does give Eli Whitney ample 
opportunity to defend himself, thus not 
taking sides. The audience is allowed to 
decide for themselves the degree to which 
Whitney was to blame for the effects of his 
work.
Rather than making use of the large 
auditorium of the Antonian Theatre, the 
company prefers to create a more intimate 
space by performing the play on a plat
form surrounded by folding chairs for the 
audience.
The company for the Iron Clad Agree
ment consists of four versatile actors who 
frequently change character to dramatize
photo
events of Whitneys life, its still hard to 
know the man he really was. As forgetting 
to know the other characters, that is neither 
intended nor possible. The play also relies 
heavily on cliches, particularly about the 
wealthy and slavery.
INTERCHANGEABLE PARTS was 
written by a former CMU playwright, 
Chris Blaetz, and was directed by another 
Carnegie-Mellon graduate, Geoffrey 
Hitch. Julia Swoyer, producer and 
founder of the Iron Clad Agreement, also 
attended CMU.
The Iron Clad Agreement is attempting 
something different, interesting, and valu
able in their work. I can only hope that 
they can find better material so that their 
productions will have merit theatrically as 
well as educationally.
INTERCHANGEABLE PARTS will 
be performed September 25-27 at 8:30 PM, 
and September 21, 28 at 2:00 and 7:00 PM. 
Their next production, OCASEY AND 
THE LADIES, opens November 27. Call
photq by Renee Rosenfeld

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
HEWLETT 
PACKARD
610/10
knockout krowd in Stanley koncertThe Kinks
by Alan Spero
Ay-oh! The Kinks were at the Stanley 
Theatre last Friday Night, September 12, 
and the sold out crowd was easily 
konquered.
Onstage, the Kinks have no peers. Their 
perennnial leader, Ray Davies, a true rock 
and roll vaudevi Ilian, deftly combined 
melodramatic tension with an easy stage 
manner that kept the audience screaming 
along. Brother Daves guitar work this 
night was flawless, he pranced and posed 
in his all-black outfit while ripping off 
solo after solo.
To watch a Kinks koncert is to view a 
mini-history of rock and roll. Where 
Have All The Good Times Gone, which 
faded into Tired of Waiting,was done
with the energy and excitement of the orig
inal recording, almost 15 years ago. 
Lola, David Watts, All Day And All 
Of The Night and of course, You Really 
Got Me were also included in this nights 
show.
But the fact that they followed closely to 
their recently released and very successful 
live album, One For The Road, made this 
particular concert, since it was not my first 
Kinks show, slightly stale and frustrating. 
It seemed to restrict the s .ng selection, too. 
Seven songs from their last studio LP, Low 
Budget, were performed, while they totally 
ignored all the material from Sleepwalker 
and Misfits.
Although the Low Budget material was 
done well, especially the title track and A
Gallon Of Gas, overall it was too similar 
to their last tour, which was in fact, the 
Low Budget tour. There was one fascinat
ing consequence from their following the 
live album so closely: The audience knew 
their parts.
Even with unfamiliar material, Ray 
Davies is a master showman who can con
trol an audience faster than just about 
anybody in rock. But this night, he didnt 
have to say a word. It was obvious that 
most of the crowd had listened intently to 
the live album and knew exactly when to 
come in with the appropriate ay-oh or 
chorus.
One real fresh point in the performance 
came during the second encores. Ray 
sprang a new song on the crowd called
Give The People What They Want. 
That should be the theme song for the 
Kinks, for theyve been doing that for well 
over 15 years, and although this was not 
one of the Kinks greatest shows, it blew 
most other rock acts totally away. Indeed, 
its comfortable to know that an act as 
classy as the Kinks will probably be 
around as long as rock and roll is, and vice 
versa.
Now Read This!
No one ever claimed the opinions in this 
paper to 'be gospel, and, in fact we would 
encourage a healthy dialogue in these 
pages. Catharsis can be yours by sending 
your opinions via campus mail to Richard 
Gorelick, The Entertainment Editor, Box 
17, Skibo. |SS|
HP Professional Calculators.
HP-4IC
The calculator that 
grows withyou.
In your personal career path you can out
grow your calculator. Course content 
changes, becomes more sophisticated, your 
problem-solving requirements increase, 
and often you have to upgrade to a more 
powerful calculator. Not so with the 
HP-41C. It has a resident memory of over 
400 lines, or 63 data registers, or any com
bination. Enough to handle sophisticated 
data intensive problems. It has 130 stan
dard functions. And any function, or any 
program, can be assigned to any key 
allowing you to customize your HP-41C to 
meet your own specific needs. The HP-41C 
Continuous Memory retains programs, 
and key assignments even after the 
is turned off. And it is alpha
numeric. Programs can be named, output 
can be labeled, error messages and prompts 
appear in words.
Despite its sophistication, the HP-41C 
is easy to use. The HP-41C Owners Handcan guide anyoneeven novice pro
grammersthrough complex calculations 
easy-to-understand, step-by-step 
procedures.
More than a calculator, the HP-41C can 
become a complete personal computation 
system. Expand memory to 2,000 lines. 
Add a Card Reader, and Optical Wand that 
inputs bar-coded programs, a printer that 
also plots, plus plug-in applications modules 
that provide solutions to problems in busi
ness, science, and engineering.
The HP-41C. Never before has this 
much power been this easy to use or this 
adaptable. So visit a Hewlett-Packard 
dealer now. Then make the professional 
decision: buy an HP. For details and the 
address of your nearest dealer, CALL 
TOLL-FREE 800-547-3400, Department 
658M, except from Hawaii or Alaska.
In Oregon, call 758-1010. Or write: 
Hewlett-Packard, 1000 N.E. Circle Blvd., 
Corvallis, OR 97330, Dept. 658M.

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPUS INTERVIEWSOCTOBER 16 & 17
The besl pizza in Oakland.  r,n .%>
At General Dynamics, our people are 
vital to our success. We see each 
individual as an asset. And we want 
to see that asset grow.
Thats why we need people who 
desire to push beyond their own 
horizons ... people w^o ar billing to 
demonstrate their initiative . . people 
who are limited only by thf loundaries 
of their imagination.
General Dynamics is the nation's 
number one defense contractor and 
a leader in commercial programs as
well. Were also a leader when it 
comes to benefits, salaries, oppor
tunities for advancement, job diversity 
and mobility, attractive locales, mod
ern manufacturing equipment and 
facilities, and expanded technological 
bases.
Our representatives will visit your 
campus this fall. Be sure to pick up 
one of our brochures at your Place
ment Office and schedule an interview 
appointment.
ANTONINOSDELIVERS!
Half-off on delivery 
charge this week 
(til Tuesday 9/30) 
with this coupon
And, plan to attend our Corporate 
presentation the evening before 
our on-campus interviews. Details 
at your Placement Office.
Or, if you prefer, send your 
resume to:
BILL COLEMAN, Corporate College 
Relations Administrator 
GENERAL DYNAMICS 
Pierre Laclede Center, CN14 
St. Louis, MO 63105
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Godot arrives
by Sybil Coffey 
Pozzo: Where are we?
Vladimir: I dont know.
While watching the show, the 
audience passes the same dialogue in 
their minds. The Metros (Pittsburgh 
Metropolitan Stage Company) produc
tion of Waiting For Godot teases its 
viewer just as playwright Samuel Beck
ett intended. Central characters, Vla
dimir and Estragon entice the audience 
to wait for the mythical Mr. Godot by 
merely waiting on stage.
The play, directed by CMU drama 
Professor David Ball, comes off gener
ally well, with a few rough spots. Ball 
skillfully shapes his characters from dis
torted versions of the Three Stooges, 
The Marx Brothers, Laurel and Hardy 
and Charlie Chaplin. There is even a 
little of Regan from The Exorcist in the 
character Lucky.
The play is well staged allowing for 
some visually stimulating scenes; 
Lucky walks across the stage, out of the 
theater and into the lobby with a taut 
rope tied around her neck, pulling 
Pozzo on stage; Vladimir and Estragon 
roll across the floor from one side of the 
stage to another.
Estragon and Vladimirs energy lev
els needs regulating. The opening 
scene, when the two are alone, moves 
slowly, seemingly done just to get 
through. When Pozzo and Lucky come 
on, energy picks up, and heads up pro
gressively for the rest of the play. It gets 
to the point, though, where Vladimirs 
screaming abuses the audience.
In Vladimirs soliloquy, towards the 
end of the play, his energy level is so 
high that he loses some vital patience 
with it. The speech is a key to the play 
and deserves better care.
For the most part, Steven Levy, who 
studied acting at CMU, as Estragon and 
Michael Cook, a graduate of the CMU 
Drama Department, as Vladimir,
m HEWLETT PACKARD
22I ATWOOI) SI -OAKLAND
Lion Walk
September 23, 1980The TartanPage 13
played their parts vigorously and inten
sely. Jim Boerlin, who has taught at 
CMU, plays Pozzo almost to caricature, 
but manages to keep him in the real
world. Seeing the progress made 
through one performance, the company 
should smooth, out its problems 
quickly.
-116 S. Craig St. 681-1161
DONT BUY FROM US
Before you know the pliers everywhere else!
l>7......S2SUH>
92 S399.95
<17.............r>H
.isc........Kw.'t:
SIC.....I.SMK>
SNC. ... I '>(MNI
LIMITED SUPPLY
PHILIP WIENER 
683-0313
The costumes, not credited, worked 
very effectively, helping to further 
shape the characters. They appear clownish and, at the same time, sadly realis
tic. The scenery is minimal; a black 
curtain across the open stage and a tin 
foil crescent moon which only comes 
down in one scene.
Ball changes the script by casting 
Lucky as a female. Its an interesting 
variation and Susan Chapek stands out 
in the part. It does cause a problem, 
adding to the complexity of the play 
with the extra variable of male to female 
character role relationships.
The play challenges its audiences. 
Infinitely different meanings can and 
will be taken by every person who sees 
Becketts work. The Metros produc
tion, for the most part, creates a clear 
picture while leaving most of the plays 
diagnosis to the eyes and minds of those 
who see it. The show is definitely worth 
seeing.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
Lab Theatre brings Gertrude Stein novel to life
by Paul Smith
The Making of Americans, Pitts
burgh Laboratory Theatres current 
production, is an operetta based on the 
novel of the same name by Gertrude 
Stein. Adapted for the stage by Leon 
Katx, it follows three generations of two 
German-Jewish immigrant families, 
the Herselands and the Dehnings, foc
using mostly on the children of the 
Alfred Herseland family, the youngest 
generation and the first to be born in 
America.
The libretto is taken entirely from the 
book. Narrative passages are spoken by 
th character of Gertrude Stein, and dia
logue is sung by the characters of the 
story. It is a difficult enough task to give 
effective dramatic reading to Ms. Stein's 
repetitive, inverted prose, even without
sixteen members of the cast turn in con
sistently strong perrformances, and the 
result is a very satisfying evening of 
theatre.
The play is presented in the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Theatre Downstairs, 
an appropriately intimate studio-type 
space. The set consists entirely of several 
black wooden blocks, moved about the 
floor from scene to scene. The lighting 
is equally sparse.
The role of Gertrude Stein, the only 
non-singing part, is played admirably 
by Julie Silverman. In the course of the 
play she grows from being a narrator/commentator to the central character. 
We share her own coming to under
standing of her characters, and of love, 
death, and growth through them. Her
ral, and the prose that seems so unnatu
ral on the page becomes very pointed, 
real, and pleasing.
The entire cast is strong, but the most 
impressive performances are by David 
Ruschak as Mr. Herseland, and Kathy 
Hayes as Martha Herseland. Mr. 
Ruschak is very human in his portrayal 
of the tyranical father figure, full of oldworld values and unable to communi
cate with his family. He is a well 
balanced character. We are held 
between sympathy and antipathy. His 
loneliness is very subtly presented. 
Ruschak is the best vocalist in the play.
Martha is the most potentially sym
pathetic character, the ignored, selfdeprecating eldest child and only 
daughter of the Herseland family. But 
Hayes avoids pathos, and we end up
situation in which she is left. Miss 
Hayes is also an excellent singer, and 
has what can only be described as an 
electric stage presence.
Also outstanding are Robin Grattan 
and Kirk Holtzinger as David and 
Alfred Herseland.
The score, appropriate to the text of 
the play in its repetitiveness and inver
sion, and unremarkable overall, was 
composed by David Miller. Musical 
direction was by Ian Gallagher and 
Asher Raboy. The production was 
impressively directed by Jed Harris, and 
produced by Bill Rayston.
The Making of Americans runs 
through September 28 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. Call 621-2876 for details. I 
reccomend it highly, unless your taste 
for theatre doesnt extend further left
having to do so entirely in song. But the delivery is so well crafted that it is natuquestioning the inevitability of the than Neil Simon or Bob Fosse.Forbes St. opens: The San FranciscoItaly Connection
by Alex Czajkowski
The Forbes Street Gallerys premiere 
show opened last Tuesday featuring the 
Gallerys assistant director Claire McConaughy and Christopher Anselmo Priore. 
Both were exhibiting Current Works 
and both are abstractly inclined. Too, both 
artists reflect in their pieces the styles and 
attitudes of the school where theyve stu
died before and both do so to cliche 
extremes. There, all similarity ends.
McConaughy, after studying at the Art 
Institute in San Francisco, has been fasci
nated by the "space-time continuum and 
synchronity in time. This pre
occupation led her to conduct her TimeTape 2 experiment this summer; having 
four people in four different time zones 
listen to an identical tape at the same time. 
Cosmic, right? Wrong. What she doesnt 
realize is that this kind of thing happens
daily without any deliberation. Put Hey 
Jude on anytime, and chances are that 
someone, somewhere is playing it too.
Hef paintings also attempt .to represent 
her space-time ideas. A series of four 
canvasses painted with a light coat of 
orange, black or gray and then pressed 
with corrugated cardboard are representa
tional of space.
Things get better with another series of 
four which incorporate lines like axis 
andcurves, numbers and logic sym
bols; all of which thrills her but which she 
admittedly doesnt understand.
It All Happens At Once
Still using numbers and symbols, 
McConaughy turned to adding sheet 
music to her work. Now this works; at last 
she is able to tie all her ideas about time,
Whatever look is your look...
THE NATURAL LOOKTHE PERM LOOK
Vbu'll look better with a 
GreatXprecision haircut!
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X*s method 
of precision cutting means we cut and shape 
your hair from the "inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.
237 AVweotf Street 
Acroee the street from 
Pott Office 
M74SOO
space, distance, numbers and logic 
together. Her best piece is in fact titled "It 
all happens at once and comes closest to 
what she seems to be trying to express. 
"72-473-YP, a combination of her first 
"space paintings is the first runner-up to 
this revelation.
McConaughys "style may well be her 
own, but the San Franciscan type of 
thought is her inspiration. Priore, on the 
other hand, has a number of ink drawings 
that give away his stylistic influences, but 
his inspiration remains hidden.
Priore has studied in Rome with the 
"Tyler group, and his three untitled ink 
drawings are very reminiscent of Picasso; 
they are also the best in the show. All three 
are abstract in form, but it takes little imag
ination to see a man and woman in one 
and a dancer in another. These are very 
simple little drawings, not the confused 
conglomerations one may think of when 
speaking of "abstract art.
A little less Italian, an unititled charcoal 
figure drawing of a girl in chair in as dark 
room is captivating, as is "LOscuriata di 
Viggiano, a graphite work of dark 
marchers bearing staffs. Both are excellent 
pieces and great camples of what can be 
done in those mediums.
Priore also experiments with color in 
three paintings, all done on oil paper. If 
you could imagine Jackson Pollock with a 
wide paint brush in hand, you would get 
the initial impression of these paintings.
Closer investigation reveals, however, 
hieroglyphic-like symbols which have 
been partially painted over. These paint
ings are large, all three seem to have overly 
similar patterns beneath a spattering of 
gray or white paint, and they become less 
novel by the time youre facing the third.
Cloth and Flesh
Two Aerial Views from Train Win
dows... are his final pieces, Aerial View 
from Train Window #2 is a small gra
phite drawing which dulls in comparison 
to the rest of his work and especially 
Aerial View from Train Window #3.
#3 was lying in the middle of the 
gallerys floor, and was made of two major 
parts. The first, a large oil painted cloth 
which was draped over the second, a girl 
named Susan lying on her stomach under
neath. Protruding from under the cloth 
was Susans bright reii hair and black 
inked hand. Moving occasionally, this was 
the focal point of the show par necessite (if 
you didnt notice it, youd trip over her). 
Unfortunately, Susan wasnt included in 
the purchase price.
Priore and McConaughy were both able 
to accomplish what they set out to doexpress themselvesand both had a cou
ple of outstanding pieces. It was the 
premiere show for a new staff, a new hang
ing system, and a freshly repainted (and 
even cleaned!) gallery, but it wasnt a 
knockout show. Then again, they cant 
be everytime.
A woman who needs help needs understanding...
At WHS you receive confidential.
professional help in an atmosphere
of understanding and warmth
 Free pregnancy tests ~
 Free pregnancy counseling
 Termination of unwanted 
pregnancy
 Contraceptive care 
instructions
 Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
 Sexuality and marriage 
counseling
 Self breast examination 
procedures
Venereal disease testing 
and treatment
 Fertility referral
Women's Health Services 120t Allegheny Tow* ?
, .SStanwia Street rSB
T------.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
extra
Gridders trounce Tomcats in PAC opener, 38-6
by Bob Share
In 1979 the Camegie-Mellon University 
football team had an undefeated season 
and won the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence championship. Their toughest vic
tory during that historic season came 
against the Thiel Tomcats, who fought 
hard before losing to the mighty Tartans, 
21-13. As a result of this game and the fact 
that CMU lost many of its lettermen, some 
people might have questioned whether the 
Tartans would be able to defeat Thiel and 
capture another PAC champioship. Last 
Saturdays game probably erased most of 
those questions, as CMU romped over the 
Tomcats, 38-6, before a crowd estimated at 
3,000 at Tech Field. The key to this game 
was the Tartans ability to capitalize on 
their opponents mistakes.
The Tartans received the ball to open 
the game and managed one first down, but 
were then stopped and forced to punt. 
Mike OShips punt was a low line drive 
that took CMU bounces and wound up 
being downed at Theils four yard line. 
That poor Thiel field position turned into 
excellent field position for the Tartans one 
play later, as Thiel tailback Ron Leuschen 
fumbled and the Plaid defense recovered at 
the Tomcat nine. CMU fullback Jeff Har
rison covered that distance in three plays, 
the last being a one yard burst over the 
right side of the Tartan offensive line, to 
give the Tartans their first score of the day 
and Harrison the first of four touchdowns
point gave CMU a 7-0 edge with less than 
five minutes gone in the game.
For the next eight minutes, the two 
teams traded punts, neither team being 
able to gain much ground on the other. 
With just over two minutes left in the first 
quarter, the Tartan offense mounted a 
drive that took them to within the Tomcat 
21. But a Perry Colosimo fumble turned 
the ball over to Thiel as the CMU drive 
and the first quarter ended.
Thiels drive, which they possessed as 
the second quarter began, didnt last long. 
On the sixth play Tomcat quarterback 
Charlie Coles pass was intercepted by Tar
tan safety Joe Wagner, who returned the 
ball eleven yards to the Theil 45. A seven 
play, four minute CMU drive ensued, 
keyed by runs of seventeen and eleven 
yards by quarterback Rick Brown. The 
drive stalled on the Tomcat six, but Postufka split the uprights on a 29 yard field 
goal to up the Tartans lead to 10-0.
It wasnt long before another Thiel tunover gave CMU more excellent field posi
tion. On the Tomcats fourth offensive 
play following Postukas kickoff, Cole was 
hit while attempting to pass and fumbled. 
The swarming Plaid Curtain defense reco
vered at the Thiel 31, and the offense did 
the rest. Two pass completions from 
Brown to Pete Recchia accounted for 22 of 
the 31 yards, the second reception leaving 
them two yards from the Thiel end zone. 
Two plays'later Harrison bowled in from
Tartan reserve quarterback Lou Olive avoids the rush of Thiels Bruce Thomas in fourth quarter 
action last Saturday. Olive was teams leading rusher in the game. (Photo by Jenny Ladd)
r~ Tartan teams in action this week -
CMU quarterback Rick Brown scores the fourth CMU touchdown in last weeks 38-6 victory. 
Brown had 49 yards rushing for the day. (Photo by Jenny Ladd)
schen gave the Tomcats their first score of 
the afternoon. The Tartans led 31-6 after
point increased the Tartans lead to 17-0, a 
lead they kept until halftime.
The third quarter opened with Thiel 
driving from their twenty to the CMU 42, 
but at that' point the game fell into the 
same pattern as was the case in the first 
half. The Tartan defense launched a safety 
blitz which sacked Cole and forced a fum
ble, which CMU linebacker Ken 
Murawski recovered at the Thiel 46. Again 
the CMU passing game provided the big 
yardage in the subsequent drive, as Brown 
connected on passes of thirty yards to Gary 
Drakulic, and fourteen yards to Randy 
DaCanal. Harrison went in from the three 
for his third TD, and the point after gave 
the Tartans a 24-0 bulge with six minutes 
gone in the third quarter.
CMU started their next series at their 
own 25 following a 62 yard punt by Thiel 
punter Barry Holes. Once again the Tar
tans capitalized on their adversaries mis
takes, the first of which was a roughing the 
kicker call on fourth down which gave the 
offense a second life. Later in the series a 
Tomcat defensive back was called for pass 
interference on an incomplete third-down 
pass, giving the Tartan offense yet another 
chance to punch the ball over, an oppor
tunity they took full advantage of. Brown 
finished the drive with an eight yard scor
ing run, and Postufkas extra point gave 
CMU a 31-0 lead going into the fourth 
quarter.
CMUs offense held the ball as the final 
fifteen minutes began, but on the first play 
of that quarter backup quarterhack Lou 
Olive missed a handoff and fumbled, giv
ing the ball over to Thiel on the CMU 23. 
From there, a 21 yard aerial from Cole to 
receiver Jim Kic and two plunges by Leuthe extra point attempt was blocked.
After an exchange of punts, the Tartan 
offensive unit started its final drive of the 
afternoon, covering eighty yards in four
teen plays, and chewing up nearly six and 
a half minutes of time. The big play in this 
series was a spectacular 48 yard run by 
Olive, who carried five times for 59 yards 
during the drive. In the end, it was Harri
son going over from the one for his fourth 
TD, and Postufka drilling the extra point 
to finish the scoring and give the Tartans 
their 38-6 victory.
The CMU victory Saturday was not 
merely a matter of having the ball turned 
over to them more often; the Tartans had 
three turnovers compared to four for the 
Tomcats. Instead, the victory was a matter 
of taking advantage of the other teams 
mistakes, something the Plaid Curtain 
defense didnt let their opponents from 
Thiel accomplish. The stength and quick
ness of the defense, led by linebackers 
Murawski and Chip. Miller, was able to 
hold Thiels runners to under three yards a 
carry, cutting down their inside as well as 
their outside running game, and pressureing the quarterback for much of the day. 
On offense, the unsung heroes of the Plaid 
attack, the offensive line, carved large holes 
in the Tomcat defense to open up the run
ning game and gave quarterbacks Brown 
and Olive ample time to set up their aerial 
attack. Olive led a balanced Tartan run
ning attack with 59 yards. Brown had 49 
and Harrison tallied 44 yards. The Tartans* 
host Allegheny at Tech Field next Satur
day beginning at 1:30. 
summary on page 16
PAC STANDINGS
Tues. Sept. 23Field HockeyCMU vs. Bethany(H)4:30
WLper.BaseballCMU vs. ACC (South Campus)(A)3:00
CMU101.000
Bethany101.000Wed. Sept. 24SoccerCMU vs. Pitt(A)7:15
JCU101.000Womens TennisCMU vs. Chatham(H)4:30
Wash-Jeff1.01.000VolleyballCMU vs. Duquesne(H)6:00
Thiel01.000
Allegheny01.000Fri. Sept. 26Field HockeyCMU vs. Washington & Jefferson(A)4:00
Case WR01.000BaseballCMU vs. Butler County CC (2)(H)1.00
Hiram01.000
Sat Sept 27FootballCMU vs. Allegheny(H)1:30
Camrgk-Mellon 38 Thiel 6SoccerCMU vs. Case Western Reserve(A)1:30
Bethany 38Allegheny 13X-CountryCMU at Indiana St. Invitational(A)11:00
John Carroll 16 Hiram 9Womens TennisCMU vs. Bethany(H)11:00
Washington & Tefferson 16VolleyballCMU vs. Indiana StateCase Western0Mon. Sept. 29(A)6J0

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
Soccer team falls twice in opening week
by Nancy Bums
After coming off a 7-5 season last year, 
the Tartan soccer team lost its first two 
games, 3-1 to Mt. Union and 1-0 to John 
Carroll.
Against John Carroll last Friday, the 
Tartans, according to Coach Gene Klein, 
couldnt find the goal. C-MU managed 
13 comerkicks in the game compared to 
John Carrolls two comerkicks. However, 
John Carrolls goalie had ten saves while 
Tartan goalie Senior Co-Captain Dan Car
lin had four saves.
The Tartans were defeated in their 
home opener by Mt. Union, 3-1. C-MU 
outshot Mt Union 13-12 in the match. 
Carlin had 8 saves to Mt. Unions 4 saves. 
Freshman Jong Yi scored the Tartans 
lone goal. He was assisted by Senior CoCaptain Alan McCurdy.
According to Coach Klein, the first two 
goals scord by Mt Union were defensive
errors. The first 20 to 30 minutes were 
shaky and unorganized, commented 
Klein. However, Klein says, the team can 
play much better and will improve as 
the season goes on.
The team will face the University of 
Pittsburgh tomorrow and Case Western 
Reserve on Sat., Sept. 27. Both games are 
away.
The 1980 roster tor the Tartans includes 
Seniors Dan Carlin (co-captain), Carl 
Freedman, Alan McCurdy (co-captain), 
Carl Pavelko, and Henry Stone, Juniors 
Geoffrey Luce, Marc Veuve, and Michael 
Wuenstel, and Sophomores Robert Bell, 
Joel Dreskin, Craig Fald, Bruce Hawks, 
Dave Jacobs, Michael Minnock, John 
Quain, Francisco Quesda, and Steven 
Slack. Freshmen include Robert Broach, 
Roberto Canepa, Tim Carlin, Jeff Glajch, 
Tony Martignetd, Neil Shapiro, Dan 
Smith, Richard Williams, David Yamell, 
and Jong Yi.Meckley wins 200th
Camegie-Mellon cross-country coach 
Gary Meckley recorded his 200th victory at 
CMU as the Tartans defeated Westminster 
College, 17-46, last Saturday. The win 
raised Meckleys record in cross-country to 
124-21. He has also compiled 76 victories 
as the track coach.
The victory raised the Tartans record to 
2-0 cm the young season. Senior Dario 
Donatelli and fresman Mike Short came 
across the finish line together to take top 
honors in the event with rimes erf 27:18. 
The next five runners across the finish line 
were also Tartans. Chris Shafer was third 
with Scott, Bob Dusch, Mark Knapp and 
Art Ward following close behind.
During his 12 year tenure at CMU, 
Meckley has led the Tartans to two Presi
dents Athletic Conference championships 
in track in 1979 and 1980 and the PACDEE0DDEEDBDDEDDDD9X
cross-country tide in 1979. Over the years, 
Meckley has coached 139 all-conference 
performers, four all-region runners, ten 
national championship qualifiers and one 
All-American, Craig Woolheater, who 
earned that honor in cross-country last 
year.
Meckley says that his most memorable 
victory came in 1979 when the Tartans 
defeated Case Western Reserve in a dual 
meet, thereby snapping the Spartans 
national record dual meet winning streak 
at 66. It was also the first time that the 
Cleveland school had not won the PAC 
tide in 12 years.
Meckley lives in Jefferson Boro with his 
wife, Sandra, and two children.
The Tartans will next be in action on 
Sunday at the Indiana Invitational.
FOR THOSE ONCEINA-UFET1ME SNAPSHOTS
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
ASPPH0TO
Same day service on 
ektachrome film 
Fast, fast service on 
all other films. 
Glossy prints at no 
xtra charge at all 
110,126,135 film. 
Instant color 
passports photos.
'VP.
&
3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720
The Tartans, shown here in action last week against ML Union, will face Pitt and Case Reserve this 
week. (Photo by Robert Zusman)Vbailers have high hopes
by Shari Burton
When the CMU volleyball team started 
off its season yesterday against Penn StateFayette, it marked the beginning of what 
could be a very exciting year for the Tar
tans. While last years squad was plagued 
with injuries and a lack of depth, this 
years team, with the help of eight new and 
talented players, should be a force in the 
Pennwood West Conference, according to 
Coach Jane Fisk. For the first time in 
many seasons, we are a tall team, Fisk 
said. With our good setters and overall 
depth, we have the capability to win it all 
this year.
Leading the list of returnees is senior 
Jennifer Castor along with juniors Shari 
Burton and Jennifer Donaldson and 
sophomore Janet Szwarc. New to the 
squad are junior exchange student Nicole 
Wothrich, sophomores Yvonne Chi, Sue 
Ann Illig, Lia Keppler and Moiella Sanoja
and freshman Bonnie Stewart and Liz 
Smith.
Last season, the spikers finished the reg
ular season with a 5-1 tally in the confer
ence and 11-8 overall. Fisk feels that her 
teams difficult non-conference schedule is 
what makes her team a cut above the regu
lar conference competitors. This year 
weve scheduled even more games with 
Section 1 teams (Robert Morris, 
Duquesne, Waynesburg, etc.) to streng
then our conference play even more, Fisk 
said.
The competition in the PWC stems 
mainly from perennial contender St Fran
cis, defending conference champion 
Bethany and neighbor Chatham College. 
These schools always field strong teams 
and theyll be the ones to beat again this 
year.
The Tartans next play tomorrow even
ing against Section 1 rival, Duquesne.Netters win twice
The defending Pennwood Confer
ence champion Camegie-Mellon womens 
tennis team began their 1980 season in fine 
style with victories over Geneva and Seton 
Hill this past week.
The Tartans lost only nine games on 
their way to an 8-0 whitewashing of Gen
eva. The Plaid did not drop a set. Number 
four and five singles players Diane Doyle 
and Brenda Goldstein led the charge as 
they did not lose a game in their matches. 
The number one doubles team of Pauline 
Kramer and Karen Jones also swept its 
match at love.
Last Saturday, the Tartans downed 
Seton Hill, 4-2. Jennifer Mullan, Doyle 
and Goldstein each won their matches to
give the Tartans their second win of the 
year.
The Tartans will next be in action 
tomorrow as they face Chatham at home at
4:30.
ADTKT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTING
SUPPLIES
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC
, 19 PENN AVE ( PGH )
CMU/Thiel 
Summary
Thiel
CMU
0 0 0 6
7 10 14 7
- 6 
- 38
CMU-Jeff Harrison 1 yd. (Denny Postufka 
kick)
CMU 
CMU 
CMU 
CMU 
Thiel 
CMU
-Postufka 23 yd. FG 
-Harrison 1 yd. (Postufka kick) 
-Harrison 3 yds. (Postufka kick^ 
-Rick Brown 8 yds. (Postufka kick) 
-Ron Leuschen 1 yd. (kick blocked) 
-Harrison 1 yd. (Postufka kick)
CMUThiel
First downs1912
Rushes-yds.55-24546-122
Passing yds.106100
Att-Comp-Int19-8-020-7-1
Total yds.351222
Fumbles-lost3-33-3
Penal ties-yds.5-356-87
Punts-avg.3-34.37-36.7
Passing-Brown 8 for 18, 106 yds; Olive 0 
for 1, 0 yds.
Rushing-Harrison 17 for 44 yds., 4 tds. 
Brown 9 for 49 yds., 1 td. Colosimo 9 for 28 
yds. Olive 5 for 59 yds. Sansosti 5 for 36 yds. 
Vasalani 9 for 26 yds.
Receiving-Recchia 4 for 49 yds. Drakulic 2 for 35 yds. DaCanal 1 for 14 yds. 
Vasalan^^^

---------------------------------------------------

September 23, 1980The TartanPage 17
Birdy Invitational highlights this weeks IMs
by Leslie Weiser
The intramural program is in full 
swing now with several sports begining 
their season this past week and more 
scheduled to start soon. Tennis, for 
example, started play yesterday. Sche
dules are available in the intramural 
office, Room 104, Gym. All matches 
will be played at 6:30 PM and will con
sist of two singles and one doubles 
match; one set consists of six games and, 
in case of ties, a tie-breaker will be used. 
Please turn in the scores of your matches 
to the IM office within 24 hours after 
your match is completed. If you have 
questions, direct them toward the com
missioner, Gregg Anderson, phone 743- 
3121.
Touch Football schedules are now 
out and can be picked up in the intram
ural office. AH games must be played as
they appear in the schedule. There will 
be no postponed games. Remember to 
mark the final scores on the score sheet 
and turn the equipment in to the com
missioner on the IM fieki. Some 
reminders to officials: Officials game 
fees and officiating schedule can be 
picked up in the IM office. Please fill 
out the yellow officials slip after each 
game you work.
The touch football commissioners 
are Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613 
for the Majors and Womens Leagues, 
and Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843, and 
Mark McKeefrey, phone 682-9211 for 
the Intermediate and Minor Leagues.
The third annual Earl J. Birdy Intramu
ral Golf Classic will tee off Sunday Sep
tember 28 at the Schenley Park golf course. 
The entire campus community is invited 
to participate. Participants can begin play
anytime between 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon. 
As the tournament is being played on a city 
facility, a $2.50 fee is required for greens 
fees.
If you have any questions, contact Mr. 
Birdy in the Intramural Office at 578-2214. 
An individual and team champion will be 
declared.
Sports coming up with entries due 
Thursday, September 25 at 4:30 in the 
IM office are Co-Rec1 Volleyball, Water 
Polo, Chess and Cross Country. Co-Rec 
Volleyball teams must have eight 
women and eight men. To get your 
teams ready, check the IM bulliten 
board for practice times. The Co-Rec 
Vol*eyball Commissioner is Mike 
Pochan, phone 68^-0372. Water Polo is 
in need of a commissioner. Practice 
times will be posted on the IM bulliten 
board. Games will be played in the pool
at 8:30 PM and 9:15 PM. Chess teams 
must have between four and eight play
ers. A commissioner is still needed. The 
date of the cross country meet has not 
yet been determined, but start getting in 
shape now. You may run a^ p"rt of " 
four person team or individually. 
Women, of course, are welcome. 
Commissioner is Bob Dudas, pi 
683-6133.
There will be an Intramural Boi 
Meeting on Thursday, September 25 . 
12:30 PM in the Intramural Office. The 
following board members should be 
sure to attend this important meeting: 
ATO, BTP, DTD, PLP, TX, ZBT, three 
dorms, at-large members, grad student 
and womens representatives and a 
member of the officials club. Wes See
ley was elected Vice-President of th^ 
Board at the lau r e"'ng.
Dudas stresses need for IM participation
by Leslie Weiser
If students are at a loss for things to do 
with their spare time, they need look no 
farther than CMUs Intramural Pro
gram under the able dirction of depart
ment head Earl J. Birdy, and the 
Intramural Board. The intramural 
board is made up of a cross-section of 
student representatives from fraterni
ties, sororities, dorms and grad students. 
Bob Dudas, who was elected to an 
unprecedented second term as intramu
ral board president this year, spoke 
about the program with us. His first 
praises are for Mr. Birdy who has served 
for 29 years as the head of the in tramural 
department, Mr. Birdy is a super guy to 
work with, says Dudas.
In terms of participation, intramural 
athletics is the largest student activity 
on campus, and one of Dudas main 
concern is keeping the program at this 
high a caliber.
Mr. Birdy takes care of the day to day 
affairs of the program but he would be 
the first to admit that for the intramural 
program to be a success, we need the 
active participation of the students. In 
the administrative aspect of the pro
gram, for example, we are always look
ing for responsible people to volenteer 
to be commissioners of the various 
sports. People see the end results but 
arent aware of the effort needed to coor
dinate it. Of course, the intramural 
board itself welcomes anyone interested 
in actively serving, especially under
classmen. The board meets twice a 
month on the second and fourth ThursIntramural Board President Bob Dudas. (Photo 
by Robert Zttsman)
days at 12:30 pm in the intramural 
office. The purpose of the board is to 
discuss and vote on rule changes, make 
descions concerning disciplinary action 
in the program, organize the various
FAST INSTANT
CASH
CRAZY DAVE IS BUYING CLASS 
RINGSPAYING UP TO 1125.00 
115 MEYRAN.AVE. OAKLAND, 687-4320
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BU0
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DAHK 
CHAMPALE - WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIDEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
IWE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FHIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
NOT DOGS  CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES Of SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
BECKS,LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
DORT NANSA Germany 
HOfBRAU Germany 
FISCHER GOLD France 
HOLSTE LAGER Germany 
ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
SPATEN Germany 
RIGNES SPECIAL Nerway 
SWAN LAGER Australia 
BASS ALE England 
MAC KESON STOUT 
England
LOWENIRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England
PILSNER UR0UELL 
Czechoslovakia 
 RIGNES Nerway
* DOS EQUIS Mexico
* PEROMI llalv
* GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
 GROLSCHE Heiland
* G0SSER Austria
* SAN MIGUEL PNItpines 
 KIRIN Japan
* MOL SON ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Poland
 HEINEKEN LT ft OK Heiland
* FOSTER S LAGER Australia AND MANY OTHERS
HOT 00G SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621-1185
3*01 FORSCS AV. (OAKLAND) ROM., RA. 13213
sports and games and handle any other 
problems that might arise.
Although administrative participa
tion is important, overall participation 
is also a high priorfty. Dudas is con
cerned that people dont know all the 
sports available to them. The Tartan is 
their means of publicity because with 
the large variety of sports available, 
posting notices is impractical. He feels 
that it is the responsibility of every stu
dent to get on a team./He especially 
wants a higher participation from the 
women of campus. Girls, in the past, 
havent known enough about intramurals; they haven't realized that they have 
opportunities open to them. We are try
ing to change the image of a maledominated IM program.*
The main limitationson the program 
as Dudas sees it are facilities and time. 
People have to realize that facilities 
are limited and, often, rescheduling is 
impossible, especially in sports with 
high participation such as football and 
basketball. S^rer, also is a good exam
ple of this. People m soccer wanted to 
start their games now but we couldnt 
let them because of football. As a result, 
they have to play in November when 
field conditions are less than ideal. We 
<ry to be fair as possible and I hope the 
teams would show a little 
understanding.
Above all, Dudas main goal is to 
have an enjoyable, smooth-running 
intramural program with high student 
participation.
TW $7995DIPLOMA.
(Save up to $20 on Siladium* College Rings.)
Siladium rings are made from a fine jewelers
reactions.
In short, its quality and durability at an affordable price.
Both mens and womens Siladium ring styles are on sale this week only through your ArtCarved representative. Trade in your 10K gold high school ring and saveeven more.
Its a great way of saying youve earned it.
/IRK7IRVED
^COLLEGE RINGS
Symbolizing your ability to achieve.
September 23, 24, 25Baker Hall
DateLocation
CMU Bookstore
Deposit required. Master Charge or Visa acceptedC1900 AitCarvrd Colkfe Rmits

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 23, 1980
On The Moral Implications of Computer Science
continued from page 3
to be moralizing, means pontificating, 
presumptuous or just woolly and sof
theaded. Repackage the issue as one oi 
policy, the reasoning as cost-benefit 
analysis or whatever, and the choking 
goes away (along with attention to the 
moral presuppositions that remain.) 
But such verbal behavior and attitudes 
are not universal; they are, as they say, 
relative to the culture and community.
Again the nature and existence of 
moral truth (the metalinguistic issue) 
is, philosophically, as controversial as 
can be. Some version of that conflict 
goes on inside each of us. (Thats 
because philosophy just is a form of self 
knowledge.) Witness the ambivalence 
in this program.
There was a feu need for this cerem
ony, this huddling of bodies and com
munion of spirits bonded together by 
their dirty little secret. The profession
als there share the guilty knowledge 
that they dont know just what in fact 
will happen because of their work. 
(They couldnt know that before they 
learn what their research will tell them.) 
But they know that they are among the 
best, so their work is likely to affect significally their science. And they know 
that it is as certain as the continuance of 
the technological world that through 
that science the computer will trans
form that world more radically than any 
machine ever has. And they know, 
finally, that that transformation is dan
gerous: they know that some of the 
implications of computer science might 
be ugly, horrifying, evil. Some of those 
possibilities that now test the human 
imagination may come to test the 
human spirit. And some of the possible 
scenarios not implausible, while many 
others are simply unblinkably possbile. 
however unlikely.
Knowing this, the computer folk 
gathered together to collectively con
front their shared condition as moral 
agents. Some of these scientists may 
have had vague hopes of somehow 
improving their condition as moral 
decision makers by using the kind of 
cooperative reasoning process that has 
served them so well in their research. 
And others might have felt that, if only 
for their students sakes, the real mean
ing of their work with its explosive pos
sibilities had to be talked about. And 
yet, only the fourth speaker briefly 
attended to the magnitude of the possi
ble consequences, and even he showed 
more interest in issues of research free
dom, a liberty that might come to seem 
sheer luxury if some possible implica
tions of Computer Science are realized. 
And again, all of the speakers were 
endorsing some conception of moral 
truth and moral problem solving that 
threatened to undermine any rationale 
for the discussion. If, as one speaker put 
it, everyone has different value sys
tems; what is moral for one person is 
immoral for another, then what is the 
point of a dialogue on the issues?
Consider. Suppose the speakers 
invited to give reflections on "The Mil
itary Implications of Computer 
Science (or The Policy .... The 
Economic The Educational 
The Political ... .) It is not bloody 
likely that they would, one and all, apo
logetically mention methodological 
worries and acknowledge doubts about 
the possibility of a rationally derived 
consensus on their conclusions. True, 
they might well have cause to voice 
doubts about their competence to talk 
on issues beyond their area of expertise, 
but they would suppose that someone
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
Field Engineers
\GEARHART'SSBtsBESIEEMS
RUN YOUR OWN SHOW 
IN THE GREAT OUTDOORS... 
WITH GEARHART
THE GO COMPANY
Gearhart field engineers work for the fastest growing wireline 
service company in the world, serving the oil and gas industry 
with the most sophisticated equipment in the business. If you 
have a BS degree in engineering, are highly self-motivated, 
comfortable making quick decisions, and dislike 
regimentation, consider a career as a field engineer with 
Gearhart Industries. Inc.
The GO Company knows its field engineers are dedicated, 
special p< opie and demonstrates it with highly competitive 
salaries, performance bonuses and an excellent benefit 
package (company car included.)
If being your own boss in the great outdoors and the potential 
for advancement to management appeals to you. contact the 
local placement office on your campus for more information.
GEARHART INDUSTRIES, INC.Attn: Technical Recruiting Dept.P.O Box 1258Fort Worth, Texaa 76101(817) 551-4127
else would know, and if no one did now, 
that would be fixed by time or technol
ogy: some things we will know only 
when the time (of the predicted event) 
comes or when we build better sensing 
devices, or better computers or better 
theories and the like. There is some
thing called intellectual humility in the 
face of complex and subtle questions.
The metalinguistic qualms the 
speakers did express were of another 
variety. They were not supposing tht 
time and technology would provide 
answer and proof on the moral issues 
that divide us. No one held out hope for 
the day when we have MORAL, a com
puter program (MOral Righteousness 
ALgorithm) which, when fed a com
plete value neutral social scientific 
description of any action or practice, its 
circumstances and all its consequences 
and those of its alternatives, would 
print out an infallible moral evaluation 
with unassailable argumentation 
appended. It is challenging enough to 
write a program that models the reason
ings of a creature with a fixed set of basic 
policy principles. Such a program is 
presently being studied here. Its interest 
does not lie in the truth or insightfulness of its moral conclusions. The pro
gram does not provide or presume a 
rationale for the principles from which 
the conclusions derive. The principles 
are essentially arbitrary and thus so too 
are the conclusions. Like most existing 
programs, it is a categorically attenu
ated model of reasoning. (This is not 
news to the researcher or any criticism 
of his work.
By contrast, whether 
we exercise it or not, we all have the 
cognitive capacity (if not the motiva
tional stimulus) to assess, alter and
^&aks
abandon or reaffirm any of the norms 
with which we assess our conduct and 
our thought about conduct. It is this 
capacity to reason about our reasoning 
(and about our reasoning about our rea
soning, etc.) and be motivated by this 
higher order reasoning that marks us as 
distinctively rational beings, and not 
simply intelligent organisms that can 
utilize information to adjust behavior 
to pursue given goals more efficiently. 
We generate and test not only solutions 
to problems and strategies for solving 
problems, the means to given ends; we 
create and evaluate as well the very ends 
and goals we pursue.
These metalinguistic capacities of 
self consciousness and self control-- this 
ability of our program to revise its 
own rulesare what makes the compu
ter scientist a moral agent, responsible 
for his acts and also capable of doubting 
the reality of that responsibility by 
doubting the reality of moral truth. 
These doubts are not peculiar to com
puter scientists. They are transdepartmental. They are part of some 
fundamental conceptions, a philo
sophy. It is the philosophy rather gener
ally active in this university, 
influencing decision making and the 
theories of decision making taught in 
various courses. It is a philosophy with 
great attractions, but, as with any 
human act, accepting that philosophy 
has its costs as well as its benefits. Per
haps it would be worth saying a few 
more words about that philosophy.
Professor Roger Wertheimer is the 
Director of the Philosophy Program in 
the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences. He will continue this discus
sion in future essays in The Tartan.
6| Sieve Conno^
hi ihere 
THIS is'VOUR BU&P PRESIDED 
!conotiue !udppcag td5 ELINE JUST To Hrl.!H KNOW 
'TOW l#rt 'mtWWWCr AROOT Vool
HOW WE YoO ENJCNIVKr 
YbUS SOMT^ER V*CATYi? 
WE AND THE WSSIS ARE HAVINGA TIME.
WE STARTED 1HE SUKflER WHH A 
1HREE 'WEEK CARIBBEAN CRUISE
ai_e 18hb yd5Rui ca ZEoEocEYOOU HAVE TO STOP AT PORT 
AW>N|, THEIR BEACHES ARE 
OUST FANTASTIC. IS
WHEN VC GOT BttK YH 
WIFE DECIDED THKT WE 
Should SPEND A WEEK 
IW PARIS. \T V)KS> FUN, 
fcUTWWS HASN'T
osEagi! m5os 6caoi fi 
SCbLAb NbLb Gw Rkx-mm
hWW ai^iu g5i66 ^fd c 6Ef ca pa56O d5u mcoi1pui6c!iaeI
doc SCHATZ! we INVITED US To SPENP TWo WEJEKSWrM THEM AT 
THEIR SKI LODGE IN INNSBRUCK. BUT WE C0l)LD ONLY STAY 
FOR A WEEK BECAUSE OF OOR TOUR OF THE ORIENT IN 
.AUGUST.
WE.LI, I'VE &Of TO GrO NCNO. EVEN 
THOOOH I'K\ WVlNCr fUW, X t*JST AW\T
mr Car e PCspc tiv5c fifc* 1iA*V
SEE YOU 110 SEPTEMBER,
P.?>. DUE To AN INCREASE IN EXPENSEScu is wsisiNcr tuition *700 ngtrttf*.
Help put
in Tart n!
Join the Tart n Staff

---------------------------------------------------

* 
Events.
Through October 12 
Deathtrap
At the Pittbsburgh Playhouse Theatre Cen
ter on Craft Ave. Thursday-Sunday night at 
8. Saturday and Sunday afternoon at 2:30. 
Ira Levins comedy thriller. 621-4445.
Hugh Rose as the mystery writer with a 
fascination for lethal weapons in the thriller
DEATHTRAP playing through October 12 at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Through September 28 
The Making of Americans
A Laboratory Theatre Production at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouses Theatre Down
stairs. Adapted by Leon Katz from Gertrude 
Steins novel. Friday-Sunday night at 8. 
Sunday afternoon at 2:30. 621-2876.
Through September 28 
Interchangeable Parts
Iron Clad Agreement Production. A play 
wif music about Eli Whitney. TharsdaySur day night 8:30. Sunday at 2 and 7. Anto
nian Theatre of Carlow College. 731-2445.
Through October 26
Im Getting My Act Together...
Pittsburgh Public Theatre Production at the 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side. Off Broad
way musical sensation. Tuesday through 
Thursday at 8. Friday and Saturday at 8:30. 
Sunday at 2 and 7. 323-1900
Through October 12 
Waiting for Godot
Metro Production at the Lion Walk Per
forming Arts Center. Directed by CMU Pro
fessor David Ball. Becketts classic. 683-3993.
film
Thursday Film Arts 
September 25
Luna at 6, 8:15 and 10:30 in DH2210. $1 
with CMU ID. $1.25 without. Stars Jill Clayburg.
Friday Films 
September 26
The Onion Field at 6, 8:30 and 11 in 
DH2210. $1 with CMU ID. $1.25 without. 
Stars John Savage.
SDC Film Series
September 27
The Mouse That Roared at 6,8 and 10 in 
DH2210. $.50 with CMU ID. $1.00 without.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
September 23
The Ruling.Class starring Peter OToole.
At 7:30 and 10:15.
September 24
Slaiightehouse-5 from Vonnegut novel. At 
7:30 and 9:30.
September 25
Long Days Journey Into Night starring 
Katherine Hepburn. At 7:30 and 9:30.
September 26
Wheres Poppa starring Ruth Gordon. At 
7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
September 27
Harold and Maude starring Ruth Gordon. 
At 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30.
September 28
The Farmers Daughter starring Loretta 
Young. At 7:30 and 9:30.
September 29
Let It Be starring the Beatles. At 7:30 and 
9:30.
Carnegie Institute Film senes
September 23 
Fellini series
I Vitteloni; portrait of the carousing, irres
ponsible youn^ men of a provincial town. 8 
pm. Lecture Hall. $1.50.
September 27
Saturday Afternoon Film: Animation
Max and Dave Fleischer Cartoon Program-, 
The Act of tht Inkwell/ Koko the Clown 
series. Koko pops off the drawing board to 
play mischievous pranks. Creators of Betty 
Boop. 1:30 and 3 pm. Museum of Art Thea
tre. $1.50.
September 28 
Film Noir Series
Its a Wonderful Life by Frank Capra; and 
The Big Heat by Fritz Lang. 7:30 pm. Lec
ture Hall.$1.50.
September 25 
Free Screening
Christos Valley Curtain and Christos Run
ning Fence. 8 pm. Museum of Art Theatre.Music
Pittsburgh Symphony
September 26-28 
American Premiere 
Varii Capricce, by Walton
Other pieces by Walton, Milhaud and SautSaens. Andre Previn Conducts. Guest per
formers: cello, Nathaniel Rosen, piano, 
Patricia Prattis Jennings, piano, Joseph 
Villa. Friday at 8:30, Saturday at 8, Sunday at
2. 281-5000.
'  #   K PHI 0s| 9 A T Ugliest Man On Campus ContestJL JL ? ty JL I  Just send 2 Black & White photos of yourself to:
A PHI 0
 Box 100
Campus Mail 
Contest to be held Oct. 1517 
(Homecoming Weekend)
CAU 579-2921\*H lLC.bV 8>>G\b olnIf
Are you the UMOC?

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
To the person(s) who removed the manhole 
cover from the sidewalk by Pika: I wish to 
extend my sincere thanks and appreciation 
for the bruise and puncture wound I sus
tained, not to mention the 3ft hr. wait in the 
emergency room for a tetanus shot. I sin
cerely hope that some cold, gray, lonely 
night, a 5-ft. hole comes and swallows you 
up.
Shhh-WRCT has gone stero.
Free to good home Black Lab Puppy / 5 
mos. / F-Shots/Good temperament Call 
x4044 after 7PM,
JOHN TUCCI------Happy 21st Birthday
Tomorrow
Business Opportunities. Address and stuff 
envjopes at home. $800 per month possible. 
Offer, send $1.00 (refundable) to: Triple S, 
869-C Juniper Road, Pinon Hills, CA 92372. 
Help Wanted. Address and stuff envelopes at 
home. $800 per month, possible. Any age or 
location. See ad under Business Opportuni
ties. Triple
Juicers-Brand new and uncrated, ACME 
$105, Champion $150. 521-9555.
Cash: Wanted 10,000 wrecks and junkers, 
23 hrs. 422-9968
Silver coins wanted. Highest prices in town 
no matter how small the quantity. After 5 
PM call 521-2749.Apartment for RentWilkinsburg: Quiet 
tree lined street in St James area. Two bed
rooms, living room, dining room, kitchen, 
porch, yard, appliances, hardwood floors or 
carpeting and laundry. $299$310 Heat 
Paid 682-7010.Rugs for less. 1,000 room-size and area styles, 
including orientals, ovals, elc. Chase's, 4513 
Liberty Ave., Bloomfield, 12-6PM.621-1025 
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, 
will type at home, resumes, thesis, corres
pondance, tables, etc. Own IBM Selectric II. 
521-7888.Professional typing at reasonable rates, Dis
sertations, manuscripts, term papers, statis
tical, etc. Call 371-3657, 24 hr. service IBM 
Selectric.
For RentOakland: Furnished rooms, 
maid and linen service. $179.00 to $199.00 
Short or long term lease. 682-7010 
Anyone from the Indiana-Saltsburg area
interested in carpooling to CMU, call Rich 
at 349-4640 after 5 pm.
Swinging on the Gate is holding a square 
dance at Pitt Student Union Ballroom Tues
day, 23, at 7:30; also at Portfolio, Oct. 3. 
SALESPERSON Audio and consumer 
electronicspart-time. 261-3932.
Stereo equipment for sale: Manuii 4070 
junp(w-/ remote control), 5220 cassettedeck, 
WC speakers. $300. x3510 &65.
TYPING. Term papers, letters, disserta
tions, etc. Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 
p.m. if possible.clubThe First Annual Civil Engineering Picnic 
and Roast will be held Saturday, Sept. 27, on 
the lawn between Science Hall and Porter 
Hall. Drinks and snacks will be available 
from Noon til Midnight, and dinner will be 
served at 4:30PM. Tickets are $5.00 per per
son and are available at the Civil Engineer
ing Department Office.
The International Student Organization 
will begin regular meetings every other week 
at 6:30 on Wednesdays in room 33, Skibo.
The next meeting is on Wednesday Sep
tember 24. The topic for the day will be 
Sports around the World. Sports and 
games of different countries will be dis
cussed. Ideas and suggestions for the Inter
national Festival will be welcome. Contact 
Lori Bland x4496.
Forbes Street Gallery T-Shirts designed by 
Lori Galletti will be available to the public 
soon. For more information stop by the 
gallery at 2500 Forbes or call 578-2081. 
There will be a meeting of the Biology SAC 
on Wednesday September 24 at 5 PM in 
Skibo room 12 to elect officers from the jun
ior class.
AB Coffeehouse presents a new music extranaganza with Carsckness, Black Market 
Baby and a special guest at 9:00 on Saturday 
September 27 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. 
FreeBLOOD DRIVEThe brothers of SAE will 
sponsor a blood drive in the Morewood Rec 
Room on Sept. 23. PleaSfe participate 
Every weeknight from 8-9PM WRCT will be 
presenting informative public service pro
graming. Tuesday nights will feature an 
open phone-in talk show, Talk with
Herb, hosted by Herbert Stencil. Paul 
Doyle will feature guests on Wednesday 
nights, this week CMU security chief West
brooks will be at the studios. The Weekly 
Reader, a prerecorded public affairs show 
will be aired on Thursday nights and dont 
forget to start your Mondays with Confron
tation WRCTs weekly debate series. 
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship will be 
presenting a talk on the Authority of the 
Bible at its large group meeting, Tuesday 
Sept. 23 at 7 PM, Hunt multi-purpose room. 
All are welcome to attend and fellowship 
with us.
Reminder: The CMU Law Club will hold its
first meeting tonight at 8:00 in room 45 of 
Skibo. All are invited to attend.official
LOST PERSONAL ITEMS are often 
turned in to Campus Police, BH 155. Bicy
cles, calculators, wallets (some with ID, 
cash, credit cards), jewelry, clothing, art 
supplies, and umbrellas are among the items 
found. Campus Police requests that students 
recover their belongings.general
A brunch will be held at the CMU sukkah 
next to Warner Hall on Sunday, September 
28 at 11:30AM.
Bnai Beith Hillel will be holding a 
SPORTS NIGHT at the Jewish Commun
ity Center in Oakland on September 27, 
beginning at 9PM.
Join Hillel for a snack in the SUKKAH. 
This will take place on Thursday, Sep
tember 25, 11AM-2PM at the Hillel Sukkah 
next to Warner Hall. See you then!
Reform Shabbat Services will be held Fri
day, September 26 at the Oakland Jewish 
Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. 
There is a $2.50 special for the dinner fol
lowing services. Please call ahead for reser
vations 621-8875.
CMUs SUKKAH will be built and deco
rated on Tuesday, September 23, at 4:30. A 
deli-dinner will follow. Bring a friend! Call 
621-8875 to give us an idea of how much 
food to order.
ROGER W. SANT, Director of the Energy 
Productivity Center, CMIR, will talk in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo, at 3:45 PM, Thurs
day, September 25th. The topic will be 
From Btus to Comfortable Rooms.
The Western Pennsylvania Solar Energy 
Association will be sponsoring two events 
during the month of October for residents of 
both the Pittsburgh and Butler areas.
Deadline for registration for both events is 
Saturday, September 27th. Information will 
be included for those without transportation 
and for those who prefer to car pool. More 
information about either event can be 
obtained by calling: The Western Pa. Solar 
Energy Association at 578-3716.
scholarship
Natural World Photography Contest offers 
cash prizes. For the fourth consecutive year, 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History will 
sponsor the Natural World Photo Contest. 
This year, for the first time, the contest will 
be co-sponsored by The Darkroom, Inc.
For more information and entry forms, 
please call 622-3283 or write Photo Contest, 
Section of Education, Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Pgh., 
PA. 15213.
A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in the 
poetry competition sponsored by the World 
of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets.
Rules and official entry forms are availa
ble from World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton 
Blvd., Dept. N, Sacramento, California 
95817.
Plastics Industry Announces scholarship 
awards competition. College and University 
students may win up to $1,000 in Scholar
ship Awards by coming up with an original 
and practical idea based on the use of polys
tyrene foam. The Fourth Annual EPS Scho
larship Awards Competition, sponsored by 
the Expanded Polystyrene Division of The 
Society of the Plastics Industry, challenges 
inventive minds to design workable, worth
while new products using expanded polys
tyrene as an important element.
A brochure describing the contest require
ments, and including a preliminary entry 
form, is available by writing to: The Society 
of the Plastics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines 
Avenue, Des Plains, IL 60018.
How to Get Into Pictures 
Without Really Trying  Part 2 
Get your Senior Portrait taken! 
Sept. 1519 and 2226 
Sign up for your appointment near 
the Skibo Desk 
Pictures taken in Room 12
