BASKET BALL DANCE 
FRIDAY 
UNION $1.25
GENEVA WEDNESDAY 
BASKET BALL 
NOTRE DAME FRIDAY
VOL. XXII NO. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928
TARTANS SUCCUMB 
TO PANTHER AND 
LION INVASIONS!
WILLIAM KUNKEL
Penn States Huge Lead 
Overcome; Bond and White 
Exhibit Brilliant Playing
TOMORROWG E N E V A 
FRIDAYNOTRE DAME
Skibos Have Good. Chance Against 
Geneva; Notre Dame 
(?) Quantity.
It was almost a victory for the Plaid 
last Saturday; so close in fact, that 
it was just too bad. After being com
pletely squelched by Pop Carlsons 
Golden Panthers, on Wednesday, 
both the team and students had built 
up hope for a victory over Penn State. 
Right now a Tartan victory would 
mean a new lease on life for the tot
tering Skibo cause.
Taken as it is, without criticism, 
the State game was the best of the 
season, and without doubt the home 
quints closest gesture to a victory. 
Held to a 18 to 5 score at the half, 
the battered Tartans staged a spectac
ular, heart-rending rally in the final, 
pulling up to within two points with 
four minutes to go. However, the 
Lions seemed equal to the task of 
holding the lead, for a whirlwind goal 
by Ultz Reilly, and a couple of fouls 
by Jacobson and Hamas salted down 
the old ball game with a 21 to 25 final 
score.
Faace Different Squad.
The Skibo quint faced a different 
State five than that which had op
posed the Pitt Panthers. Reilly, the 
lanky varsity center, was the only 
: man in the starting lineup against 
Pitt, who got into Saturdays fray. It 
was little Lou Jacobson, with his sen
sational corner shots, who clinched 
the game for the Lions. Looping in 
five beautiful, but exeremely difficult 
field goals from the unprotected cor
ner of the floor and on a parallel with 
the basket, he put the Lions away out 
in the front with an 18 to 5 score at 
the mid point. During that time the 
Tartans had been limited to a field 
goal by Crum and three fouls.
The second half found Carnegie 
playing a much more efficient defen
sive game, one which effectively stop
ped any such whirlwind scoring 
against which they had been power
less in the first half. In the Tartan 
Clan, Bond was without doubt the out
standing player.__Besides shouldering
the major share of the offensive with 
four neat field goals he played a bril
liant defensive. Captain White is al
so to be complimented on his performj 
ance. He played a heart-breaking de
fensive until the last minute when he 
was removed on fouls. Although not 
on the starting lineup, Crum did some 
hard work while he was in the fray.
As for the Pitt catastrophe, last 
Wednesday, it is rather useless to 
comment. Carlsons Panthers are 
without doubt as efficient and smooth 
working a unit as has ever graced the 
Tartan floor. It was clearly evident 
that the Skibo five played to the best 
(Continued on Page Six)
Carl Sandberg Tells Pittsburgh That 
There is Beauty in Silos, Smoke Stacks
Campus Week Chairman.
W. J. Kunkel Elected 
General Chairman Of 
Ninth Campus Week
Architecture Senior to Head 
Committee for Annual 
Spring Carnival
j Beauty can be even found in silos, 
grain elevators and smokestacks. 
Such was the statement made by Carl 
Sandburg in his lecture at the Y. M. & 
j Y. W. H. A. the other evening.
I This Chicago. boy minstre^ of pur 
alleys and wheat patches outside our 
town, Homer of our sunsets and stock
yards, as Ben Hecht lias defined him, 
gave a very interesting evenings en
tertainment by reading his poems, se
lections from his Abraham Lincoln, 
and singing some of his songs from 
his latest, and what he considers, his 
best book, The American Song Bag.
Carl Sandburg has a charm all his 
own; he reads his poems in a voice 
of melodious rhythm, quite free from 
vehemence, simply used without that 
foreign touch of elocution. Ho has a 
complete command of different effects 
and the nicest possible feeling. His 
is a voice for quiet ironies rather than 
for noisy imbecilities, in short his voice 
is pre-eminently used with the expres
sion of sympathy. Long will we re
member this modern boy playing his 
guitar and singing those dear old bal
lads.
Sandburgs life is unusually interest
ing. He quit grammar school when 
he was 13 to drive a wagon in the Il
linois prairie blizzards. The next few 
years were spent working in stoclcAt the meeting of Student Council 
which was held last Tuesday evening, 
William J. Kunkel was elected Gen
eral Chairman of Carnegies 1928 Cam
pus Week. Kunkel, who will super
vise Carnegies foremost activity is a 
well known figure on the Campus, be
ing one of the most prominent men 
in activities at Carnegie. He is en
rolled as a Senior in Architecture and 
is a member of the Delta Upsilon 
social fraternity. Last year heserved 
as assistant Chairman of the 1927 
Campus Week, and also was the Ad
vertising Manager of the Thistle. He 
is a member of the Scarab, an Archi
tecture honorary and the Pi Delta 
Epsilon, honorary journalistic fra
ternity. He belongs to the Dragon 
Society, Senior activities honorary, is 
President of the Interfraternity Coun
cil, Prsident of the Technon Club and 
a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.
As yet plans for Campus Week are 
still tentative as Kunkel has not yet 
appointed his assistant chairman, and 
the chairmen of the various com
mittees. The appointments and the 
final decision as to the date of the 
ninth spring frolic will be announced 
in the near future.
According to present plans, Campus 
Week will be a two day event with 
the Mardi Gras omitted. No other im
portant event of the previous Cairyms 
Weeks will be omitted and many new 
features will be included to make the i 
two days crowded with gayety.
! yards. His education was continued 
j at a college in Illinois where he won 
an oratorical prize. To finance his 
I college years, Sandburg worked durj ing t.he summer in the Kansas wheat 
fields.
; The writers past college life has 
been as varied as his pre-college life. 
He has washed dishes In Denver ho
tels, shoveled coal in Omaha, saw ac| tive service in 'the Spanish-American 
i war in Porto Rico and as a member of 
| the Sixth Illinois volunteer infantry. 
During the World war he represented 
j a newspaper syndicate in the Scandin
avian countries.
I He is a poet of the commonplace 
people and places, transforming them 
into a thoroughly communicable expe
rience through his insight and sym
pathy. Sentiment characterizes his 
poetry of American life. "Sandburg is 
the poet, to quote again Ben Hecht, 
he plays their dreams on a mouth or
gan, tells them their secrets on a gui
tar." There is a snarl and whine to 
j his poems, and he sometimes writes 
with his fists.
Again the educational program of 
the Y. Mi & Y. W. H. A. has brought 
a great man to Pittsburgh. This in
stitution is a valuable asset to the 
community, by the enthusiasm that it 
stirs up in those people who have an 
appreciation for men of letters.
WALTER BROWN ROGERS 
IS NEW MAGAZINE EDITOR
LITTLE THEATER TICKETS 
TO BE DISTRIBUTED BY Y
MARJORIE SNODGRASS
Abe Frank Is Managing Editor, Council Accepts Budgets for SoRussell and Jacobson To 
Be On Staff.
Interest In Aviation Club 
May Lead To New Course
Interest in the Aviation Club of Car
negie has increased tremendously, as 
its present membership of thirtyseven indicates. This looks promis
ing when contrasted with the ten 
charter members of last month. In 
addition there is a respectable list of 
applicants. The club is not so anxious 
for a large membership as an interest
ed one. Practically the only qualifi
cations necessary are an interest in 
aviation and a willingness to aid in 
what appears to be the coming thing.
This evening the club1 is to be ad
dressed by Mr. Yahner, aviation editor 
of the Pittsburgh Press. He is wellversed in his subject, and is certain 
to be interesting. The society will 
have speakers' from time to time, such 
as managers of airports, mail piots, 
engineers, and other prominent men 
who are versed in the varied field of 
aeronautics.
It is hoped that sufficient interest 
will be developed to have a course in 
aviation offered by Carnegie. Several 
of the members are licensed air pilots, 
and in the absence 'of speakers open 
, forum will be held which will un
doubtedly be both constructive and 
interesting.
Information concerning the club 
may be procured by addressing Box 
278, C. I. T.
TRUE LOVE NUMBER OF 
PUPPET APPEARS FEB. 21
Young ladies and gentlemen, read 
intently. The True Love number of 
the Puppet will appear on this cam
pus Tuesday, February 21. Now this 
is the one chance that opportunity 
provides for each and every one of 
the students of Carnegie to obtain all 
of the latest low-down on love, life, 
literature, leap year, and companion
ate marriages. Futhermore, a beauti
ful cover has been designed by J. R. 
Graham, on which all of the tactics 
used by Puppet in its discourse on 
love are presented graphically. Now 
what more could the students of 
Carnegie wish ?
Is love grand? That and many 
more lovely questions will be dis
cussed, with much serious thought 
and preparation, on the editorial page. 
The Sage of Skibo will discourse 
on, and disgorge all of the latest dope 
on leap year and love. It will' even 
go so far as to give special articles 
for the girls a,bout the fraternity 
houses, and to also disclose all of the 
necessary information on the girls 
who are fortunate enough to be in 
the dorms..
Now every bit of this .valuable in
formation may be purchased for only 
twenty-five cents next Tuesday on our 
own campus. Never has any maga
zine opened its heart as wide, that the 
public might view love in its nudity, 
as the Puppet has done in this issue. 
Surely the students will appreciate 
this fact, and not begrudge the dollars 
worth of information which they will 
receive for their small expenditure.
Missoula, Mont.(IP)The Fron
tier, literary magazine of the Univer
sity of Montana has announced its in
tention of becoming an all-midwest 
and far-west literary production, ac
cepting copy from other than college 
students. It Is an effort on the part 
of the editors to create some such 
magazine as the Midland.
Walter Brown Rogers, a senior in 
the Drama department, College of 
Fine Arts, was chosen editor-in-chief 
of the New Literary Magazine at Car
negie, which is soon to become a real
ity, at a meeting last Wednesday in 
room 106, College of Fine Arts, of stu* 
dents Interested in the formation of 
the magazine. Walter Rogers lias 
proved his literary ability in past con
tributions to the Shilling, and his ex
ecutive ability by his work as chair
man of the Campus Week Vaudeville 
show last year. He is a member of 
Beta Theta Pi and of the Druids, hon
orary fraternity, and has been active 
In Student Council. He has been very 
interested in the project of a new 
magazine ever since the idea was first, 
suggested, giving a great deal of time 
to, the preliminary activities con
nected with it. He was at the head of 
the committee that definitely formu
lated the final plan and constitution 
of the new publication.
Walter Rogers, as editor, was given 
full authority to choose the staff for 
the magazine with the, exception of 
the managing editor, who was elected 
by secret ballot. The staff is to con
sist of an editor-in-chief a managing 
editor, and four associate editors, one 
representing each college. Abe Frank, 
a Sopliormore in the Architecture de
partment, a member of the circulation 
staff of the Carnegie Tartan, lias been 
chosen as managing editor. To date, 
only two of the associate editors.have 
been appointed: Margaret Russell,
Senior English Minor from Margaret 
Morrison, and Harold Jacobson, a 
Junior Drama student from the Col
lege of Fine Arts. Miss Russell is one 
of the outstanding literary figures of 
the college; she is a member of Alpha 
Chi Alpha, womens honorary journal
istic fraternity. She has done notable 
work on the Tartan for four years, 
Continued on Page Five.)
cial events; Hazing; Plan 
Is Approved.
This Week Set For First 
Womens Ball Assessment
Scholarship Chairman.
Womens Organization 
Launches Ticket Sale
Ticket Committee Headed by 
Jean M. Springer Popular 
Prices Prevail
Among the chief matters, of im
portance occupying the attention of 
Student Council at; its last meeting 
on February 7, was that of distribu
tion of tickets for plays In the Little 
Theater. After various plans for. .the 
handling of tickets were tried through
out the year, a solution was suggested 
that. Mr. Davis In the Y office give 
them out from 1:00 to 1:30 during 
the time plays are running. Although 
Student Council has been distributing 
tickets in its office for somo time, 
the tickets have unaccountably be
come fewer and fewer In number be
fore many demands were satisfied. 
Mr. Rogers, senior in the drama de
partment has been appointed to in
vestigate the reason why students aro 
not receiving more tickets and as to 
who is, handling them.
As a, final measure of insuring pro
per consideration of the handling of 
social affairs, Student Council has de
cided that budgets for such social 
events must be in to Mr. Seibort at 
least a week before the evont is to bo 
dlscussod at Council mooting. This 
proceodure will bo strictly adhered 
to so that any budgets for affairs un
der contemplation which are not 
handed in to the Council will cause 
the postponement of the affair.
Other business including financial 
statements of condition of Council 
and its subsidiary budget organiza
tions as of February 1, 1928. The 
checking account of Council was 
changed to Mellon National Bank.
Motions were made and accepted 
that three social event budget pro
posals be accepted. They Include bud
gets, for the Womens. Senior Ball, the 
Gambol of the Guilds and for the 1928 
Thistle.
The matter of hazing a plebe named 
by Mr. Wood on the recommendation 
of the Sophomore Committee was ap
proved. Old business under discus
sion included the suggestion and ap
proval of Mr. Kunkel " as Campus 
(Countinued on Page Four.)
CARNEGIE PROGRAM 
TO BE BROADCAST 
TONIGHT AT 10:00
Feature From Music Hall is 
to be Under the Control of 
Professor W. B. Leigh.ou
ENTERTAINMENT TO 
COME THROUGH KDKA
Program Will Include Band and 
Orchestra Numbers, 
Plays and Cheers.
The Womens Scholarship Organiza
tion under the general chairmanship' 
of Marjorie Snodgrass, senior in Mar
garet Morrison, is holding a benefit 
performance at the Alvin theater, 
Monday, February 20. Oh, Kay! a 
popular musical comedy, has been se
lected as the play to be given.
The ticket salo for "Oh Kay!" is 
well under way.- The tickets will be 
sold by the ticket commlttoe, a repre
sentative of which will be in the hall 
of Margaret. Morrison, industries, 
Science and Art Schools, Monday, 
Wednesday and Friday from 12:30 un
til 1:30. Tickets may also bo obtain
ed at Room 3, Forbes Hull, every day 
from 4:30 until 7:30. The tickets purhased by the students will take the 
form of an exchangeable ticket. Thoso 
tickets may .be exchanged for reserved 
seats at the box office of the Alvin 
on or before Fobruary 14 or by mall as 
soo'n as rocolvod. If you wish to ex
change tickets by mail, enclose an addrossod envelopo with the order. The 
prices of the seats will bo the same 
as those charged by the theater, nom
inally.
First floor boxes.............................$3.85
Second floor boxes......................... 3.85
Orchestra (entiro) ....................... 3.30
Balcony (first four rows)........... 3.30
Balcony (next live rows)......'... 2.75
Balcony (next t.hroo rows)......... 2.20
Second balcony (entiro)................ 1.10
if it is inconvenient to purchase the 
tickets at the assigned placos, mall 
orders may be sont to Joan Springer, 
chairman of the ticket committee, at 
Forbes Hall. Make all chocks payable 
to the Womans Scholarship Organiza
tion, Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Many fraternities are having thea
ter parties at the benefit performance. 
The second balcony will be the "All 
Carnegie Box." At the popular price 
of $1.10, it Is thought that many of 
the'students would patronize the sec
ond balcony. Everyone is urged to 
purchase his ticket as soon as possi
ble.
The Womans Scholarship Organiza
tion has been thus far successful due 
to the generosity of the patrons and 
the loyalty of the Carneglo, Clan to 
(Continued on Page Four.)
NEXT BASKET BALL DANCE 
AFTER NOTRE DAME GAME
At the meeting of the Womens Se
nior Ball committee on February 7, a 
definite date for the collection of the 
first installment of the payment for 
the dance was decided. During the 
week of February 13 the senior wom
en will pay two dollars to members of 
the committee. It is essential that all 
the girls pay promptly in order to en
able the financial , committee, Dot 
Smith, Betty Calvin and Alice Mclnnis, to have a working basis for car
rying out the plans already completed 
for the ball. In addition to the money 
paid by the seniors, the profits made 
at the tea dance on February 2 will 
be used to make the ball come up to 
all expectations.
It has aready been determined that 
the ball will take place on March 9 
In the William Penn ballroom. The 
favors havb been chosen and pro
grams have been ordered. The next 
important question Is the selection of 
the orchestra, a matter which has oc
cupied Betty Hayes and Evelyn Offut, 
who are in charge of choosing the or
chestra, for some time but which, It 
is evident, will 'soon be settled.
: Scholarship Committee 
I Announce Honor Students
The committee on scholarships and 
prizes, having had a computation 
made of the scholastic work of all 
freshmen for the first semester of 
1927-28, has announced the students 
who have carried their work with dis
tinction, and constitute the freshman 
honor list.
Henry IC. Georgius leads the Engi
neering and Industries freshmen with 
an average of 5.76. Following him, all 
with an average of 5.00 or above are: 
Marvin Fox, Merle J. Frank, Henry
F. Heckroth, John E. Barnes, Jnines F. 
Bisset, Milton M. Leven and Foster
B. Stulen.
Among the Arts freshmen, Elmer A. 
I-undberg leads with an average of 
5.59. Willibald Ryshanek, Sterling B. 
Smeltzer, Evelina Palmer! and Ches
ter C. Williamson -follow with aver
ages of 5.00 or above.
Grace L. Borgerdlng and Ruth TI. 
Lieberman load Margaret Morrison 
with a 5.50 average, followed by Isa
bel Levin, Ruth S. Buckwalter and 
Tressa Petrick, all above 5.00.
The second dance of the series of 
basket ball dances will be held this 
Friday, February 17, in the Union. 
The orchestra chosen for this event is 
the Plaid Revelers, one of the most 
popular campus orchestras. This 
dance will start immediately after the 
Notre Dame-Carnegie game and will 
last until midnight. The price of ad
mission will be the same as last week, 
$1.25.
The opening basket ball dance was
a, great revival of the old tradition. 
The spirit shown at this dance Indi
cated that much effort will expended 
to retain this tradition. Co-operation 
on the part of the students by attend
ing these dances will greatly aid the 
committee In re-establishing the tra
dition of holding basket ball dances.
If the dance Friday evening Is a 
success, another dance will be held 
Tuesday evening from 9 t.o 12, In the 
Union, commemorating Washingtons 
birthday. The orchestra obtained for 
this occasion Is "Ralph Kruck and his 
Tartans. The price of admission will 
bo $1.25. Since this dance J on the 
eve of the PJtt-Carnegle game, this 
will give the basket ball followers am
ple opportunity for bringing their 
spirit for the game to a red heat.
Tonight at ten oclock marks the in
itiation of broadcasting from Carnegie 
Tech. The program will be broadcast 
through station KDKA of the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company on a standard wave length 
of 316 meters or a 63 meter short 
wave. The program, which will he 
one hour in length, will be in the 
hands of Professor Robert B. Leighou, 
associate director of the Night School 
courses.
The underlying theme of tonight's 
program will be "Dear OLD Tech." 
This song is known \ wherever Car
negie is known and the school is Just
ly proud of it, as it is entirely a. Car
negie product. From the time that 
the program opens until it closes with 
the Alma Mater, Intensely enjoyable 
numbers will be given, a program 
which bids to be one of the very best 
from KDKA this year.
Broadcasting as far as Carnegie is 
concerned, is experimental. The stv 
cess of this concert as evidenced "by 
communications received from listeners-in will largely determine 
whether Carnegie will appoiir before 
the "mlko again in the near future. 
Therefore It. is urgently requested that 
all com.moiit on the program bo sent 
to station KDKA that it may bo 
known with what success it is being 
received.
The doors of the Music TIall will be 
thrown open at 9:30 to students ami 
public and this will give Pittsburgh 
folk an opportunity ,to see a stage ful3 
of entertainers In action, irofossom 
J. Vick OBrien, B. Idon Payne anil 
Chester Wallace will assist in variona 
numbers on the program us well a 
Messrs. Victor Saudelc, Harvey GmiJ,. 
Wilbur Scott and leaders of varioim 
musical organizations.
The following program will bo 
glvon:
PART I.
Bagpipes.
1. Song"Dear Old Tech"................
.....................Glee Club and Band
College yoll.
March"Carneglo Tech ............
................................. Wilbur Scott
Kiltie Band.
2. Greetings to the Alumni................
......................... "Buddy Ovorond
College yell.
3. Overture"Euryanthe .........
-  Symphony Orchestra
Director OBrien.
4. Tenor Solo"Nocturne ...Curran,
Malcolm Hilly.
College yell.
5. Chorus from "Jesu PricelessTreasure ............................ Bach
Bach Choir.
6. Comedy Sketch"The Remnant"
..................................... Josephine
Copas, Lucy Kennedy Brown, 
Frank Sullivan. Ruth Astoa 
PART II.
College yoll.
1. Bagpipes.
MarchOn the Mall... .Goldman 
Kiltie Band.
2. "Thou Art Repose..........Schubert
(Continued on Page Four.)
London Visitor Makes Gifts 
To Printing Department
Mr. George W. Jones of London, 
who recently visited the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology as a member of 
the International Typographic Coun
cil, has made a number of gifts to the 
Laboratory Press.* Among them are 
an engraved portrait of William Caslon, I, the English typefounder; a 
proof sheet for a French Book of 
Hours of early sixteenth century, hear
ing the proofreaders marks; and a 
frislcet sheet used in printing a 
French Book of Hours of the fifteenth 
and sixteenth century. Concerning 
the frlsket sheet acquired by Mr. 
Jones at the Gordon Duff sale, he 
writes: "So far as I. am aware, with
the exception of two sheets which I 
presehtnd to the Typographic Museum 
at; Jersey City, the one I send for 
your acceptance and two In the library 
of Windsor Castle, the others in my 
collection aro the only onos in exist
ence.
*Tho Laboratory Press Is a profes
sional term used to designate th?< 
Printing Department of Carnegie.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928
CLAN DIRECTORYB ASK
NOTE: The Clan Directory given below in 
'Incomplete, and in nomo' canon, possibly Incurreel It has been compiled, however, from the latent available data. Any correction!! or ad
ditions! nhould VOL sent in immediately to tho 
Alumni Office.
BALTIMORE 
President, G. S. Diehl, Bollona Avenue. Sccrcf.ary andTreanurer, P. H. Dlckoy, 1318 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 70 Went Street, 
Braintree, Mnois.
BUFFALO
Preiiidont, Robert Porter, 1 BO Hoyt Street. Secretary and Treanurer, Herbert L. Moeriinjfcldor* .54 Kotchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, 518 Alta Place, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vic President,- Henry L. Berger, Dir, Green 
Street, Maimillon, Ohio.Secretary, Wilmer II." Tucker, 1280% Cleve
land Avenue, N. W.Treanurer. George A. Martin, 315 Nlntli 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chairman, C. J. Copley, 533 Wrlgley Building. 
Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair
man ; Vic Stroimiulnt, John Harkncni.
Program Commlttuo, John Nation, Chairman;Hnrvc-y Hlllor. Mm. H. W.Homtarship CommliUio. c. u. Schmidt, qhnlcman; Mm. John Harknenu, Thud Wheeler. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.All communications nhould be adilreuscu to 
, ,.. .C. J. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
Univcrnlty of Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
Prenldent, A. C. May, PeerleHn Automatic 
Machine Company.Vice Prenldent, R. H. Humbert;, 1849 Ennt 
101 fit Street. ,Secretary, E. P. Batchum, 1080 Union Trust
Treasurer, L. C. Lustenbcrgcr, 1840 EaBt lOlnt 
Street.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLAN 
President. .Katherine Kerr, 1938 Bant llOtb
Vicc^Fraiident, Alice Nelnon Koppen, 1979 
,Eant 82nd Street. ;Secretary and Treanurer, Catherine Allan, .022 
Bant 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
President, N. J. Engle, 2GG South High bt. 
Vice Prenldent, Florence H. Lutz, 91 boutli 
Market Street, Logan, Ohio.
Secretary and Treanurer, J. R. Paloma, Department of Romance Languages Ohio 
State University.
CONNECTICUT 
Prenldent, C. Arthur Nordntrom, 17 Sterling 
..Street,'Hartford. ,,
Vice. Prenldent, William Gooby, 10 Madinon 
. .Street, New Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel Flaxman, 
92. Vice Street, Hartford.DAYTON, OHIO 
President, F. W. Ileckert, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROIT
Prenldent, W. Ray William, care Wcstlnghoiuue Electric & Msinufsicturing Company. 
1635 Sixth Street. onnnSecretary and Trounurer, C. L. Boyle, 3909 
Balfour Road.ERIE
Prenldent', Ray Keller, care Hammermill 
Piiper Company.Secretary sind Treanurer, R. C. Warren, care 
The Warren Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
Prenldent, G. M. Whinler, 1778 Rone Street,
Berkeley.   ............Secretary and Treanurer, Mrn. R. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif. 
HARRISBURG 
Prenldent, John G. Todd, 20Vi North Qucon 
Street, Lancaster.Vloe Prenldent, Henry Y. Shaub, 20Vii North 
Queen Street, Lancanter.Secretary, Frank Hlghberger, care State De
partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg. 
HUNTINGTON. W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Strcot, 
Eant.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John VV. Frit, 215 John Street.
KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH 
Prenldent, D. ,T. MoFarlin, care Koppdrjj ConIltrubtlon Company, Union Trust Building. 
Vic** Prenldent, IT. II. Hook.
Secretary, VV. 11. Neely.Treasurer, A. G. Wagner, logether with J. G. 
Rice, C, H. Collin, II. E. Warren, compelling 
II Hoard of Governors.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY 
President, Conrad A. Stone, Box 801, Char
leroi, I'ii.vice President, Mr, Alice Nixon Conn, care Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock 
Street, Steubenville, Ohio.Secretary and Treiirtisi'or, A. B. LowntuWer, 
Look No. 4. I'ii.
M1LWAU KEH 
President, A, 11. TonUison, 737 Fortieth Street. 
'SeoiOl.ary and Treasurer, N. 1,. Dlttmer, 540 
.Second Avenue, Wiiuwatono.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kllalf, 41109 
Avenue M, Hrooklyn, N. Y.Publicity Manager, F. I. Smith, care II. L. 
Doherty Company, 00 Wall Street, 
NORFOLK
Prenldent, T. 1). FII>/.itfhhon, 811 llolt Street.
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President, C. W. Gibbs, care Ingersol 1-Rand 
Company, II Uroadway, New York City. 
Vice President, M. W. Van Dor Wolk, 73 Grove 
Street, Montclair, N. J.Troiunirer, F. 1C. Zolgler, 295 Union Avenue,
, Belleville, N\ J.
Secretary, J. F. Smaney, 211 Looust Street, 
Roncllc Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
Prenldent, M. D. Scott, 545 Kathmoro Road, 
Brookline, Upi>er Darby, Pa.Secretary and Treanurer, T. S. Roppllur, care 
Edwards, Ewing & .Tories, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
Chairman Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exllne, 1520 Real Entato 
Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH
President', G. Albert Wagner, care The ICop-^ 
\)crs Company.
Vice President, I,. II. Lee. 20G Stanwlx Street. 
Secrctary-Treasurer, Buddy Overerid, Carneple 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY 
(President ,J. M. Sampson, 45 Bedford Street. Vice President, J. L. Knight, care General 
Electric Company.Secretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 20G 
Union Street.
ST. LOUIS
Acting Secretary, M. A. Zellar, care of Hamilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
.President, John F. Meredith, G907 West Fifth 
Street, Los Angeles.
Vice President, Robert Finkelhor, 200 North 
i&akhurst Drive, Beverly Hills.
Secretary, Betty Finkelhor, 200 North Oakhurat. Drive, Beverly Hills.
Executive Committee, James H. Knapp, 244 
North Wetherly Drive, Beverly Hills.
G. R. Brandiri, 902 Transportation Building, 
Loa AngeleB.
TULSA
President. H. G. Texter, care Standard SeamIt-KH Tube Company, 710 Mid Continent 
Building.Vice President, Arthur J. Kerr, 3 G17 South 
Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and Treanurer, II. W. Pontorman, 
i)02 Mayo Bulldlm?,
WASHINGTON, I). C.Prenldent, J. R, Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. W.
Vico President, Harriot Staples, 8011 S Street, N. W.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, G27 
Lexington Place. N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
Prenldent. R. A. Rookmeyur, 1515 Elm Street. 
Vice President, Fred C. Bccde, 1324 Hillman 
Street,
Secretary and Treasurer, George Iv. O'Connor, 
52 JMe.Vv York Avenue.
WOMENS BENEFIT 
PERFORMANCE IS 
FOR SCHOLARSHIPS
Performance of Oh! Kay at 
Alvin February 20 is 
Selected
Carnegie Radio Nite Program
TUESDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 14
STATION KDKA
Lest you forget, the hlg performance 
of Oh! Kay/' which the Women's 
Scholarship Organization Is sponsor
ing, will be held at the Alvin Theater, 
Monday, February 20.
The purpose of the performance Is 
to raise money for all undergraduate 
scholarships by means of having one 
benefit In which the co-operation of 
all organizations In the school is so
licited.
Oh! Kay," is an example of a mu
sical comedy that has a general ap
peal. It is pot prudish, but is not of
fensive, either., The following are 
some of the song hits: "Clap Your
Hands, "Someone To Watch Over 
Men and Maybe.
The success of this project is laid 
upon the shoulders of the undergrad
uate students but it must also be 
backed by the alumni. Although many ! 
of the alumni are not able to render 
personal assistance on committees, j 
they can be of grejit assistance In pur
chasing tickets when the ticket sale 
is launched. Everyone desiring tick
ets should do his best to attend to his 
exchangeable ticket immediately, as 
explained in the letters sent out.
The Carnegie co-eds are now hard 
at work seeking advertisements for 
the program of "Oh! Kay, the musi
cal comedy to be given Monday, Feb
ruary 20, at the Alvin Theater for the 
purpose of raising scholarship money. 
The Womens Organization has formed 
under the chairmanship of Margaret 
Wagely, president of the Sophomore 
Class of Margaret Morrison, an ex
tensive campaign. Any girl who 
would be interested In soliciting ads 
for the program is urged to get in 
touch with Margaret Wagely at Elm 
Hall or call Schenley 9199 in order 
to get the credentials necessary to 
solocit ads. A profitable commission 
will be offered for all ads.
Miriam Cupps, chairman of the cor
respondence committee has sent 3,000 
letters t the Carnegie Club within a 
30-mile radius of Pittsburgh and to 
faculty. Special letters have been 
sent to prospective patrons.
Jean S'pringer, Senior Painting and 
decorating student, has charge of the 
ticket sale which was launched last 
woek. An exchangeable student tick
et will be jo'ld. In order to insure every
one an equal chance of securing good 
seats.
"Oh! Kay, has beep listed as, one 
of the best and most amusing musi
cal comedies of the season having a 
reputation of being presented to the 
I largest possible audience. All local 
Iheater-goers are looking forward to 
this show which is headed by the ini
mitable Julia Sanderson and Franlc 
Crumlt. Opportunities accorded to 
them in Oh! Kay for fun dispens
ing and hilarity are as yet. to bo onjoyod by Pittsburgh's theater-going 
populace.
The music of the play Is by C.eorge 
Gershwin, the lyrics by Ira Gershwin, 
and tho hook by Guy Bolton and P. G. 
Wodohouse.
Glee Club to Compete 
Fof Honors February 24
.Glee Club and Band
.Wilbur Scott
.Mr. Overend
.von Weber
Curran
PART I.
Bagpipes.
Song"Dear Old Tech...........................
College Yell.
MarchCarnegie Tech.........................
Kiltie Band.
College Yell.
Greetings to Alumni.......................!.................................
College Yell.
Overture'Euryanthe ................................................
Symphony Orchestra, Director OBrien.
Tenor SoloNocturne...................................................
Malcolm Hilty
College Yell.
Chorale and Chorus from Jesu, Priceless Treasure..............Bach
Bach Choir.
Comedy SketchThe Remnant..........................................Lucy
Kennedy Brown, Josephine Copas, Frank Sullivan, Ruth Aston
PART II.
College Yell.
Bagpipes.
March"On the Mall...............................:............................Goldman
Kiltie Band.
"Thou Art Repose....................................................................Schubert
Three Russian Tone Pictures............................................Rubinstein
Mens Glee Club.
Violin SoloZigeunerweisen ..............................................................'......Sarasate
Raymond Bondi and Orchestra.
Scene from "MacbethDuncans Murder.......................Shakespeare
Irene Tedrow and Donald Bellows Wilson.
(or Walter. Brown Rodgers)
March"Entrance of the Bojars....................... ..............Halvorsen
Symphony Orchestra, Director OBrien.
College Yells.
Bagpipes.
Alma Mater.
VETERAN ALUMNI 
MAY YET TRANSFER 
WAR COMPENSATION
Cornell, Columbia and N. Y. 
U. Receive Sums, Why 
Not We ?
1 CLAN NEWS j
MILWAUKEE
Allerton House in Chicago is Now
Designated as Intercollegiate Hotel
A nationwide effort to bring alumni mates, it,was believed, in making the
of colleges and universities into closer 
contact has brought the appointment 
or designation of hotels in all the prin
cipal cities of the country as centers 
of alumni activities, say'* officers of 
the Intercollegiate Alumni Extension 
Service, which is the operating head 
of this organization comprised of 
alumni secretaries and editors of col
lege publications of more than one 
hundred educational institutions who 
are participants.
The most recent selection of an
other hotel as an intercollegiate alum
ni mreting place by the Intercollegi
ate Alumni Extension Service was 
that of the Allerton House, Chicago, 
which is now designated as an inter
collegiate alumni hotel,
The aim of the extension service 
has been to promote the welfare of its
selection.
Full records and directories of all 
local alumni groups will be kept on 
file at the Allerton House and will be 
available to alumni residents of Chi
cago and those visiting here, it is an
nounced. Thus far there have been 
40 hotels in the.United States desig
nated as intercollegiate alumni head
quarters.
The alumni, organizations of the fol
lowing colleges and universities are 
participants in the Intercollegiate 
Alumni Hotel movement; Akron, Ala
bama, Amherst, Antioch, Bates, Be
loit, Bowdoin, Brown, Bryn Mawr, 
Bucknell, Buffalo, California, Carne
gie Institute, Case School,, Cliica'go, 
College of the City of New York, Col
gate, Colorado School of Mines, Colo
rado, Columbia, Cornell, Cumberland, 
Emory, Elmira, Georgia, Georgetown 
(College, Goucher, Harvard, Illinois, InRecent newspaper articles and com
ments we have heard prompts us to 
bring to the attention of our World 
War Veteran Alumni the possibility 
of transfering their Adjusted Com
pensation to the Endowment Fund.
But perhaps better than any ex
planations on our part is he follow
ing letter from Charles Gibbs to Budj dy Overend:
February 7, 1928. '
I Mr. Clarence Overend,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Buddy:
.Prominent in The New York Herald 
Tribune recently were the following 
headlines: 154 ALUMNI MAKE
OVER THEIR WAR INSURANCE TO 
CORNELL and ALUMNI GIVE WAR 
BONUS TO COLUMBIA AND N. Y. U.
Cornell will get 5154,000, Columbia 
will get $200,00, and N. Y. U. will have 
$40,000 for further endowment.
These are all direct giftsthere is 
no three for one provision. Under the 
generous offer of the Carnegie Cor
poration we have the opportunity of 
multiplying our gifts to our school by 
three. The multiplier is more if we 
give cash now, but lets talk only of 
applying Adjusted Compensation Cer
tificates.
These come due just about 1946 and 
will be just in time to be multiplied 
by three in actual dollars available to 
the Carnegie Endowment. No one 
need worry if their certificate cornea 
due in 1947 or later. Our friend, John 
L. Porter, will take care of that I am 
sure and see that due credit is ob
tained.
The time for application closed on 
January 1, 1928, but bills are being 
presented to Congress to extend the 
time limit and heres hoping they go 
through. Anyway, there are lots of 
men holding certificates now, who, if 
they realized, would gladly transfer 
all or part of their certificates to the 
Endowment Fund. The sum of $400 
wduld bring $1,200 to the Endowment 
Fund and wipe out the average mans 
debt to Uncle Andy. No easier way 
can be found.
I hereby challenge every veteran 
Alumnus to fill out a transfer blank 
you have them, Buddyand I do if 
you dontand se$ if we cant equal 
or beat the Columbia record.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) CIIAS. W. GIBBS.
Radio Nite sure did bring the Mil
waukee Clan back to activities. Ac
cording to a copy of the invitations 
sent out, were sorry we couldnt get 
out there to it.
Of course, the radio program wa3 
the feature between 9:00 and 10:00 
oclock (Central Time), but the rest 
of the evening was not to be idle. A 
full fledged bridge party, with prizes 
and everything,. and a buffet lunch 
were other features of the evening.
Of course, we have not yet heard 
of the success, of the party, but here 
is what some of the experts of the 
clan had to say about it in the invita
tions:
Milt GrossSo gradually a bridge 
party. Yi Yi. ..All de ladies putting 
on de nuzz de podderon de leep de 
leepstick. So a lunch in conjonction 
witt de card playing. Yi Yihow;, 
dollink.
Milt WorkNo, a major suit is not 
a soldiers uniform.
Alex. Tosteson2 plus 2 equals Lit' 
tie Joe.
"Pete Peterson  When in doubt 
play a Mashie.
Elmer WeissFour clubs make a 
game if they are driver midiron, 
mashie, and putter.
Doc Harwood  (When playing a 
king on opponents jack) never send 
a boy to do a mans work.
Geo. CurtisDo you do much read
ing? Have you red flannels.
S. M. SieseiDo I starve a cold or 
stuff it? Neither, I flood it.
Bob Perrine and Roland Kurtz 
Yes, we are on the committee, too.
NORTH NEW JERSEY
.members in all possible ways, and '3'l'mana, Iowa State College, Kansas 
a part of that program designation of i Toacliors College, Kansas, Lake Erie, 
hotels resulted from a belief that they Lafayette, Lehigh, Louisiana, Maine, 
would be centers for former collegians I M. I. T., Michigan State, Michigan, 
whose residence was not permanent Mills, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, 
and who have few facilities for carry.Mount Holyoke, Nebraska, New York 
ittg out the friendships formed in col-j University, North Carolina, North 
lego years. One of the reasons that Dakota, Northwestern, Oberlin, Occlthe Allerton House was selected as a dental, Ohio State, Ohio Wesleyan, 
Chicago center for alumni, is that Oklahoma, Oregon, Oregon State,
'Safem, Oro. (IP)Tne period from 
Feb. 4 to IS has been set aside as an 
o7)en season for the co-eds at Williamette college to exercise their 
rights under the Leap Year season. 
The action was officially taken by the 
students.
Tickets for tho intercollegiate Glee 
Club contest may still be obtained. 
The contest, in which the Carnegie 
Tech Glee Club will \compete, will be 
held in Carnegie Music I-Iall, on Feb
ruary 24. This contest includes the 
Pennsylvania district, with Pitt, Penn 
state and W. & J. as some of out
rivals.
Last year,.which was the first year1 
we competed, we came out with sec
ond honors, and this year, every man 
is doing his utmost to help capture 
the first prize.
The ticket sale has not yet closed, 
and there are many good seats re
maining. If you desire seats write to 
Mr. James A. Bortz, 1403 Oliver build
ing, Pittsburgh, Pa., who has charge 
of the ticket sale. A convenient cou
pon was .published in the last two is
sues of the Tartan.
The schedule of prices is as fol
lows :
Boxes (seating 10).......................$25.00
Orchestra and first three rows
balcony ....................................... 2.00
Balance of balcony................... 1.50
Second balcony (1st 4 rows)----- 1.00
Second balcony (balance)'.. A.
thero are how more than one hundred 
colleges ropresented in residents un
der th Allerton roof, 95 per coni; of 
tliem classed as pormanent residents. 
More than 50 per cent of th hotel 
guests are college graduates, according to W. W. Dwyer, manager. The 
designatimi of tho Allerton House as 
an intercolleglate allunili hotel will
Penn iState, Pennsylvania, Princeton, 
Purdue, Radcliffe, -Rollins, Rutgers, 
Smith, .S'outli Dakota, Southern Cali
fornia, .Stanford, Stevens Institute, 
Texas A. and M., Texas, Tulano, 
Union, Vanderbilt, Vassar, Vermont, 
Virginia, Virginia Polytechnic Insti
tute, Washington and Lee, Washington 
State, Washington (Seattle), Washgreatly facilitate the convenience of ingtOii St. Louis), Wellesley, WesChicago alumni estimated at 25,000 in leyan College, Western Reserve, Whittliat city and will be an aid to alumni man, Williams, Winthrop, Wisconsin, 
passing through Chicago who wish to Wittenberg, Wooster, Worcester Polyrcmew contacts with former class-1 technic Institute, and Yale.
YALE DAILY NEWS IS
HALF CENTURY OLD
The Yale Daily News lias warrant 
for its jubilation, its special anniver
sary number and the numerous 
blurbs from high places at the end 
of fifty years of campus reporting. 
For besides being the "oldest college 
daily the News is .easily one of the 
most distinctive college' newspapers of 
the time. It has not been afraid to do 
the unusual thing in college journal
ism of speaking out on the American 
campus, a place where narrow loyalty 
always advises and often forces, a 
policy of hush. The Yale Daily News 
does not step put of its way to be
come a crusader but does not dodge 
issues when they arise. Only the 
other day it sensibly .upheld the stu
dents who went to court in defense of 
publicity of striking neckwear work
ers, to the shame of the tongue-tied 
press of New Haven.
, In its make up and news policy the 
Yale News is distinctive. It has cliar.50 ' acter, which cannot be said for more
than a score of the hundred of col
lege papers. True there are. many 
critics who, if' editor, wouljl curb the 
insatiable lust for interviews that 
rages in every Yale heelers bosom, 
causing the paper to be burdened with 
the opinion of every visitor from, 
Johnny Wesmuller to Otto Kahn. In 
the history of college journalism the 
paper will not be remembered for this 
not, for the dubious glory of having 
been tlie first college newspaper to 
have a rotogravure section. The 
palms will be awarded, rather, for hav
ing syndicated to the college press, a 
series of articles on student life the 
world over. It will be remembered for 
its fearless editorial policy in the 
neckwear incident and the "hush 
hall incident of a few years ago, 
when it led a foray on the new Yale 
architecture that was being foisted on 
the campus unbeknown to students 
and teachers. If the present campaign 
for honors courses is successful there 
will be another honor for the News. 
It is . through the influence of sucli 
napers as the Yale Daily News that
DO YOU REALIZE
North New Jersey also planned a 
radio party for Carnegie Radio Nite. 
This one was held at the home of 
Charles Gibbs, that is, if the house 
held them all. Acordlng to the pro-, 
gram, other features of the evening 
were card playing, a buffet supper, and 
sliding downhill (if there was any 
snow left).
ALL CLANS
That two alumni members are now 
on the Carnegie -ecli committee of 
the Board of TrusteesJ. C. Hobbs, 
'11, and F. R. Cogswell, 12?
That we have 53y2 acres of ground 
in our campus and 30 separate build
ings ?
That each alumnus should send at 
least one student to Carnegie each 
year? Pick a good one.
That one or two hours of your time 
spent in working for Carnegie is 
worth twenty to one hundred hours of 
our time?
That you should send all personals 
and information which might be of in
terest to other alumni to the editor of 
the Alumnus and Tartan?
That if each alumnus in good stand
ing pot; one delinquent classmate to 
pay ' up, we could have over 4,000 
members?
That the employment service main
tained for students and alumni cost 
over $16,000 last year?
That your tuition was never more 
than one-tliird to one-fourth of the ac
tual cost of your training-at Carnegie?
That it cost the Administration and 
Athletic Association over $1,000 to 
send the Tartan to paid-up alumni?
That there are over 12,000 men and 
women, former students of Carnegie, 
who are eligible for associate alumni 
membership?
That for each year you spent in Car
negie over $300 of the cost of training 
you come from Carnegie endowment?
That S100 subscribed nowwill mean 
$795 additional endowment in 1946?
That a $100 Carnegie Loyalty Bond 
'($10 a year for ten years) pays $50 
for Life Alumni Membership in full 
and $50 to the Carnegie Endowment 
Fund, which brings $7.00 for $1.00 in 
1946? How many for you?
We would like to know what you 
did on Radio Nite. If you had a party, 
how did it go across? Or, if some of 
your members got together to listenin, how did they enjoy the program? 
Do you think Radio Nite is worth
while? These and many other, ques
tions can be answered only by you. 
And it is entirely by your comments 
that we can judge the success of our 
first Carnegie Tech Radio Nite. So 
we suggest that you write to us and 
tell us your reactions to the plan. Ad
dress either Miss Andrews, Alumni 
Office, or Alumni Editor, The Carne
gie Tartan.
Palo Alto, Calif.(IP)Roller
skates and bicycles are threatening to 
take from the flivver its .prestige as 
the campus conveyance at Stanford 
university. .Co-eds have taken to both 
forms of locomotion to and from 
classes.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
college journalism is slowlyvery 
slowlybecoming courageous and in
telligent and grammatical.The New 
Student.
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes  PastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
9n(emeU&r
CATERERSSHAI7Y AHD PENN AVE-, PITTSBURGH
CHUBBYJciis rJiinuie oiBv FRANK RKII.LY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREh
CHAPEL TODAY AT 11:50
IN ARTS SCHOOL THEATER
Chapel services will be held today 
in the Little Theater in the Arts 
School at 11:30 instead of 12:50 as 
was the time last semester. This hour 
will hold for all chapel services tliroought the second semester. The 
speaker will be Rev. Dr. Samuel H. 
Goldenson, D. D., of the Rodef Shalom 
congregation. Kenneth Owens, of the 
Music Department, will deliver a solo 
and Mrs. Nina Miller will again be the 
organist.
Although the time of Chapel has 
been changed to 11:30, the type and 
length of the services will remain the 
same.
Electrical Smoker To Be 
Given Wednesday, March 7
The date of this years electrical 
smoker, which has long been looked 
forward to by the electrical students, 
has at last been decided. Eta Kappa 
Nu and the A. I. E. E. have jointly 
agreed upon the date as March 7. 
The early part of the evening will be 
devoted to asocial iiieeting of the A. 
I. E. E., during which a movie from 
the General Electric Company and 
possibly a comedy will be shown. 
Later, the committee has been for
tunate in securing Ralph Kruck and 
his Tartans to play. The Tartans, an 
orchestra composed entirely of Car
negie students, have been very suc
cessful in previous engagements, and 
are expected to add greatly to the eve
nings entertainment. Further enter
tainments is being provided by a com
mittee of Eta Kappa Nu men. Food 
and smokes will be served.
The affair is being organized by M. 
R. Brice, president of Eta Kappa Nu, 
and N. D. Cole, chairman of the A. I. 
E. E. Eta Kappa Nu committees have 
been appointed to take charge of the 
following functions: entertainment,
food and smokes, .tickets and publicity. 
Sophomores will serve on these com
mittees.
PROF. WARNER OF ARTS Plebes Roam Campus Sans Regulations 
HAS ONE-MAN SHOW IN 
ANNUAL ART EXHIBITIONWhile Class of 30 Shirks Duties
More Than Third of Canvasses He 
Submitted Suggest Car
negie Campus.
THETA TAU TO MAKE CALL
FIRST ASSEMBLY IN MARCH
At the meeting of Theta Tau, pro
fessional fraternity, held last Thurs
day a number of important topics 
were discussed.
On the evening of February 23', 1928, 
the fraternity will entertain a number 
of prominent, sophomore and junior, 
engineering students at an informal 
smoker, place to be announced in the 
invitations. A call to riiembership will 
be . made at the first general assembly 
in March.
The next meeting will be held on 
Tuesday,; February 21, 1928, at 11:30, 
in the office of Mr. J. M. Daniels.
Headline in N. Y. World1,000 
More Marines Ordered to Nicaragua; 
U. S. Urges World Peace.Cornell 
Daily Sun.
ms is
Parker
Pffssisr@!@ss
T@ne!t
This pens feather-lightweight 
alone is sufficient to start and 
V ;ep it writing. No effort, no 
iitigue.
Doubly remarkable because the 
new Duofold is 28% lighter than 
, when made with rubber, due to 
Permanite, a new material 100 
times as strong as rubberin 
fact, Non-Breakable.
But Pressureless 'Touch is 
most important because of its ef
fect of taking all the effort out of 
writing.
3 sizes, 6 graduated pen points, 
5 flashing colors, to suit mens and 
womens hands and tastes.
Parker Duofold Pencils to match 
pens, $3, $3.50 and $4.
Logic for Geo. S. Parker 
DUOFOLD to be sure of .the 
genuine.
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY 
JANBSVILLE, WISCONSIN
"iluLer
*D*DJDrI Jr.1
t/ Lady Duofold $5 
Over-sizc $7
Bod and Black Color Comb. Biss. Trdo Mark U.S. Pat. OS.
Professor Everett Warner of the 
department or Kine Arts has the "oneman show in the annual exhibition 
of the Associated Artists of Pitts
burgh, which opened last Tuesday in 
the  Carnegie Institute Galleries. 
Professor Warner exhibits twentynine canvasses, more than a third of 
which are subjects selected on the 
Carnegie Campus, or in the immediate 
vicinity.
The announcement of the awards 
was made last Thursday, February 3. 
The first, second, and third awards 
present three rather distinct types of 
art.
The first award was made to Nor
man MacGilvary for his picture 
"Circe. It is a picture of a girl about 
12 years old, demurely seated between 
two black cats. The background has 
been highly conventionalized and the 
entire picture is representative of the 
cultural aspect.
The second prize represents the de
cidedly primitime, being a landscape 
titled Turtle Creek Valley. Towards 
Pittsburgh by Kane. Kane is a house 
painter by profession, and his admis
sion into the recent international 
made quite a stir.
Another quite colorful landscape of 
the tempermental type won the third 
award. It is A Family Group, a tree 
vista by M. J. Vick.
There are six other awards that are 
offered, one of them being offered to a 
woman. This was given to Elizabeth 
E. Robb for her picture "Rose of 
Italy a marine study. It is made by 
the Farm'er School of Design for 
Women.
The Carnegie Institute award for 
the best group of oil paintings was 
given to William R. Schulgold.
Flowers a floral picture won the 
A. W. Smith, Jr., award for Sarah C. 
Wilson. This is offered for the finest 
floral subject.
The Art Society Award for the best 
portrait was given to Samuel Rosen
berg for a picture of'himself called 
The Artist.
The Camilla Robb Russell memorial 
award was given to Willard Perkins 
for his picture "A Street in Old Paris, 
and to William Wolfson for his Four
teenth Street in New York, was given 
the anonymous award for the best 
black and white subject.
A very interesting group in the 
sculpture room is that executed by 
Myrtle Altwater in soap. There are 
also fourteen other compositions in 
other materials. Lillian Guiver is 
represented by a small group of minia
tures.
The exhibition this year is not only 
larger but more varied in character. 
An unusually large number of flower 
pictures were accepted, and there are 
also several portraits.
The Gkllaries are open to the public 
until March 9.
Ar$ the sophomores becoming lazy 
or merely big-hearted? Such is the 
j question that many upper class men 
j are asking as scores of plebes coni tinue to parade upon^tlie campus sans 
dink, black tie qnd black sox. During 
the mid-year examinations the plebes 
cannot be blamed for wearing loud 
ties. It is rather disturbing to enter, 
say a Math exam, with a black tie. 
It reminds one too much of the ulti
mate outcome. The psychological ef
fect would very likely prove disas
trous to the plebe.
However, the mid-years are now a 
thing of the past and black ties should 
once more be donned by the freshmen. 
They cannot, be expected to wear reg
ulations if there is no one to see that 
they do. Tradition causes this job to 
fall upon the sophs, and a job once 
inherited should never be given up 
until finished.
True, plebe trials continue to be 
held regularly. But those unfortun
ates who come up to trial are usually 
the ones who have committed some
minor offense as forgetting matches 
or their bibles. The real-culprits, the 
ones entirely out of regulations are 
the ones the sophs should search out 
and punish accordingly.
The girls, too, are having things too 
much their own way. They are seen 
on the campus talking and walking 
with men. without their arm-bahds, 
and committing several other offenses.
It is about time the sophs do some
thing. Perhaps they are being held 
back by thoughts of that day in the 
spring when the plebes, with their 
thirty or so football men, will rush 
down upon them and attempt to tear 
them to shreds in vengeance for all 
the trouble they have caused them. 
One does not like to call the class of 
'30well, afraidbut something is 
wrong.
The campus makes an appeal to the 
sophomore class, its officers and es
pecially the chairman of its regula
tions committees to bear down and to 
uphold the traditions of the school. 
Come on sophs, lets see some action.
Carnegie Faculty Members 
Attend Princeton Meeting
W. H. Horton To Speak At 
A.I.E.E. Meeting Tonight
The A. T. E. E. is very fortunate in 
obtaining as the speaker for the meet
ing this evening, February 14, Mr. W. 
H. Horton of the West Penn Power 
Company. He is connected with the 
Public Service Work department 
which assists in the betterment of 
lighting and wiring in private as well 
as commercial houses. Mr. Horton 
will talk on Commercial and Pruden
tial Lighting and Wiring.
Two student speakers will talk on 
The Development in the Engineering 
Field of Pittsburgh and Locality in 
the Past Year.
The meeting will be held in Room 
11, Machinery Hall, at 7:30 this even[ 
ing. All are invited to attend. A spe
cial invitation is. given to the sopho
mores and freshmen interested in 
Carnegies electrical courses.
Three members of the faculty have 
arranged to attend the Princeton con
ference to be held at Princeton Uni
versity beginning Friday, February 
17, and terminating the following Sun
day. These men are Dean Tarbell, 
Professor S. E. Dibble of the Heating 
and Ventilating department and R. V. 
Davis of the Y. M. C. A.
This conference is being held in or
der to develop theories to produce a 
more effective correlation of all the 
moral and spiritual influence of uni
versity life. Some of the greatest ed
ucators in the country will speak. 
President John Grier Hibben of 
Princeton University will open the 
conference with a welcome address. 
During the three days addresses will 
be made by the following men: Pres
ident Wilkens of Oberliri College, Dr. 
Harry E. Fosdiclc, R. H. Edwards of 
Cornell University, R. M. J'ohnes of 
Haverford College, Dean H. E. 
I-Iawkes of Columbia University, Dean 
W. L. Sperry of Harvard University, 
President Clarence C. Little of the 
University of Michigan.
As about eighty -colleges and uni
versities are to be represented at the 
conference practically the whole coun
try will attend. Our representative 
will no doubt fully appreciate the 
event" and return with interesting re
ports.
San Antonio, Texas(IP)Be
cause lie could afford to read books in 
no other way, Alva, a 15 year old 
boy here, lias voluntarily entered. the 
county corrective juvenile home. He 
intends to prepare himself for college 
here, and then work his way through 
some inexpensive university.
Cole Speaks In Union On 
Influence Of Fine Printing
A lecture on The Influence of Fine 
Printing was given in the Union on 
Thursday afternoon, February 9. 192S, 
by Mr. W. Arthur Cole, honorary 
president of the American Institute of 
Graphic Arts.
Professor Porter Garnet,,Master of 
Laboratory Press, who spoke of the 
importance of the American Institute 
of Graphic Arts in stimulating better 
printing in the United States, intro
duced the speaker.
Mr. Cole has had wide experience in 
the fields of printing and advertising. 
He spoke highly of achievements of 
the Laboratory Press and the depart
ment of printing at Carnegie He 
prophesied that the influence of in
stitutes similar to ours would soon af
fect great changes in various fields 
of printing in the direction of better 
quality and higher grade workman
ship.
Mr. Cole presented many illustra
tions from his own experiences in 
the advertising field showing that in
sistence upon artistic excellence is 
likely to be of increasing financial 
profit in addition to affording other 
satisfactions.
It was a very optimistic and en
thusiastic presentation of the possibil
ities in the printing business for the 
use of superior Intelligence and artis
tic taste. The lecture was well at
tended by students of the Department 
oi Printing, students of the Library 
at Carnegie, and a large number of 
interested persons.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
CARNEGIE WILL PRESENT 
PUBLIC LECTURE SERIES
Noted Lecturers To Discuss Sub
jects of General and 
Varied Appeal.
Public lectures scheduled for pre
sentation under the auspices of Car
negie during February and March will 
bring to Pittsburgh an outstanding 
group of experts in various fields of 
engineering, industrial practice, and 
the graphicarts.
Students will be especially in
terested in the announcement that 
Vladimir Karapetoff, professor of 
electrical engineering of Cornell Uni
versity, who is a former resident of 
Pittsburgh, will lecture at Carnegie 
on Thursday evening, February 23. on 
General properties of electric trav
elling waves in transmission lines, 
and their reflection at terminal ap
paratus.'
On Monday afternoon, February 
24. George R. Keller, Detroit printer, 
who is treasurer of the United Typothetae of America, will discuss 
The Printers Financial Problem, as 
the fifth of a Series of lectures relat
ing to the printing industry.
A series or three lectures on the 
Theory and technique 1 of photo
graphy will be given on Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday nights, Feb
ruary 29, March 1 and March 2, by Dr. 
Charles E. K. Mees, director of re
search of the Eastman Kodak Com
pany, Rochester, N. Y.
Dr. Connelius Lely, of Holland, an 
expert on flood control and prevention, 
has accepted an invitation from the 
local institution to lecture on flood 
prevention Monday evening, March 
12.
Tlie next lecture scheduled will be 
given by A. L. Lewis, Toronto printer, 
who will speak on The responsibility 
of the master printer on Friday after
noon, March 16.
An annual series of lectures known 
as the Concert Institute is an
nounced for March 19, 21, and 22. On, 
the evenings of Monday, Tuesday and 
Wednesday, March 26, 27, and 28, A. 
V. de Forest, of the research labora
tories of the American Chain Com
pany, Bridgeport, Conn., will discuss 
the general subject of Testing, selec
tion and survival among engineering 
metals.
Negotiations are also under way to 
arrange a series of lectures by Dr. 
Irving Langmuir, of the General 
Electric Company, some time during 
April.
On Sunday, February 19, at 2:30 pm., Guy C. Caldwell will lecture on 
Tho Rocky Mountain National Park. 
This lecture Is of a series that Is being 
presented by tho Carnegie Institute 
and will be given In tho Carnegie Lec
ture Hall.
All of the lectures, except tho last 
mentioned above, which Is In tho Car
negie Lecture T-Tnil, will be given on 
the campus. All will bo free to tlio 
general public.
CHECKS TO BE CASHED AT 
Y MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS
There has ben a change in the sys
tem of cashing checks in the Y. M. C. 
A. office. Hereafter all checks will be 
cashed only on Mondays and Thurs
days. Tills change shoiild be noted as 
last semester the days were Tuesdays 
and Fridays.
The Mellon National Banks is send
ing a man to take the banking off .the 
hands of Mr. Davis. Becausq of the 
increase In the banking last semester 
it. was necessary to create a new. office 
to ta.ke care of the finance. The place, 
the Y. M. C. A. office, in tho Central 
Building, will remain the same,, but 
Mr. Davis now assistant will now 
have charge of the work.
REGISTRATION FIGURES 
SHOW SLIGHT INCREASE
In spite of the fine imposed for later 
registration 96 additional students 
have registered during the past jyeek 
I in the various colleges. This brings: 
I the total number of day students up 
to 2,26$ for the second semester as 
j against the 2,252 for the first semes-1 
[ ter. The number of new gtiidents 
coming to Carnegie in  February 
reached 82. The 27 hew Freshmen! 
who are entering now, compensate ex-; 
actly, as far as numbers are con
cerned, with the 27. casualties in last 
semesters freshman class. To date; 
the first year students ranks boast a 
total of 647, an increase of 22 over last 
week's figures, 325 of this number be
ing Engineering and Industries men.
The College of Engineering shows 
an increase of 21 over last week, malcing a total of 524, which' is six less 
than last semesters enrollment.. In: 
dustries total enrollment; has now 
reached 337, Arts 585 and M. M. C. C. 
463.
No approximation can-be made as to 
the number who still intend to .regis
ter; however, it. is expected that the 
above figures will not change appref 
ciably.
MARGARET MORRISON GIRLS
TO PLAY AT DANCE FEB. 15
On Wednesday evening, February 
15, the Stringers Orchestra of Mar
garetMorrison will play at a dance iii 
tho Irene Kaufman Settlement. I-louso. 
The dance is to be hold ,by the Tagon' 
Club and proceeds will be given to 
the benefit fund for the coal miners* 
families of Allegheny county.
Tho Stringers, under the leadership 
of Isobol ShoppariV, huvo played at. 
several affairs on and'off, the campi^ 
tills season, among them being tho an
nual Y. W. C. A. dinner at the Car
negie Inn. ft Is an olght-plocio orches
tra composed entirely of students ol! 
Margaret Morrlsph who avti Intor'eslVxl 
in Instrumental -music,
#/V #J yf//F##S
IM EARLY A MILLION IMEIU HAVE 
CHANGED T CHESTERFIELD !
OH YOU CO-EDS!
Physical examination of 305 fresh
men and sophomore women in the 
University of Arkansas revealed that 
approximately 85 per cent had defec
tive feetwhich reminds us that there 
is a little collage up in Pennsylvania 
called Dickinson College. Up at this 
little college theyve got co-eds, and 
how. Judge the last two words from 
the following results of a physical ex
amination of the junior and senior co
eds57 per cent have flat feet, 5S per 
cent of the seniors and 63 per cent of 
the juniors have round shoulders and 
hollow backs, 29 per cent of both 
classes have .right hip prominent or 
high, 18 per cent of the seniors and 
29 per cent of the juniors have cur
vature of the. spine, either total or 
lumbar curves (whatever that means), 
of the juniors, 75 per cent are under
weight, of the seniors, 52 per cent; 6 
per cent of the juniors are overweight, 
and 29 per cent of the seniors. Two 
of the girls were perfect physically. 
Now we ask you, Mr. B. McFadden, 
what does this mean?
Boy, the women are going to the 
dogs, sure! Nell! Surprising thing 
is that we would never have guessed 
j it! You cant judge a flapper by the 
hang of her skirt nor what she 
hangs on her line, incidentally!U. 
of Delaware Review.
THEY SATISFY
and yet THETRE MILD
AND fSERES WHY:
STATE it as our honest
belief that the tobaccos used in 
Chesterfield cigarettes arc of 
finer quality and hence of better 
taste than in any other cigarette 
at the price.
.XIN21XC A REOXXG STUFIIT Co.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928
The spring re-examination period 
will soon be here. All students who 
desire to take re-e&amlnatlons during 
.lilis period .should have registered for 
them by now, as yesterday was the 
last day for registration. Re-examina
tions will not be scheduled in any sub
jects in which there are no registrants. 
Students who do not, wish to remove 
their first semester deficiencies now, 
may take their re-exam Illations,,during 
the fall period which begins the week 
preceding the'first semester registra
tion. in September, 1928.
The Hpring re-examinations will bo 
given on February .25, March 3, 10 and 
17. In the colleges of Engineering 
and Industries the re-examination In 
mathematics, mechanics and physics 
will be scheduled as follows: All 
courses in inalhematics on Saturday, 
February 25, from 8:80 to 11:30; all 
curses in mechanics on Saturday, 
March. 3, from 8:30 to 11 :'30, and all 
courses in physics on Saturday, March 
10, from 8:30 to 11:30.
The schedules for the other February-March re-examinations in the col
leges of Engineering and Industries, 
and those of the other colleges will be 
made out as soon as the number of 
registrants for each examination is 
known. When they are completed 
(about February 20), the schedules 
will be posted on the bulletin boards 
in all the colleges.
According to the rules of this institu
tion, all tudents making F or "I 
grades are permitted to take one re
examination to remove their defici
ency. Students failing to pass the re
examination grade automatically re
ceived an R grade.
plum forgot the world was going 
around.
Those were the days alright. Dont 
you agree with me, Skinny, now that 
youre a man in long pants? Yes, to 
be sure, we sure can get a kick out of 
those days when we look back at 
them.
The red heart from Mabel means as 
much as a hot date with Alice today.
It is too bad that valentines are 
such a recent invention. It is also too 
bad that Cleopatra and the rest of the 
girls in history did not get valentines.
Today here are over 20 million val
entines sold in America. This just 
goes to show the popularity of this 
symbol of affection. Today the valen
tine is the bridge of affection.
The system of sending valentinesshould be continuedjin college, but we 
still remember when we were young 
and used to send them to each other. 
Just a few years have folded up be
tween then and now, and as Jonah 
once said, A few minutes sure makes 
a whale of a difference.
Let me be your Valentine" is the 
message of todays Tartan. Although 
there aren't any red hearts pasted on 
page one, you can be sure that our 
"heart Is In the work."
Dear reader, do you remember Val
entine day when you were a kid? Do 
you remember how you used to count 
your Valentines "one by one," and 
how hopping mad you got when you 
found that Jimmy Smith gave your 
'best girl a bigger and better one than 
you did? Those were the days!
Do you remember how teacher used 
to call a half afternoon holiday on 
Valentines'day? How many surprises 
that big tissue papei1 covered Valen
tine box held? It had red hearts, big 
and little, and cupids, and arrowsin 
fact, it had such gobs of stuff on it 
that it looked like a wedding cake.
Some times there was ice cream and 
even cake at those parties for refresh
ments, but for the most part the Valen l ines proved so interesting that one
At the first Sophomore Seminar lec
ture of the second semester a very in: 
teresting illustrated lecture on Chlor
ine and sanitation was given by Mr. 
H. S. Hutton, of the Wallace & Tiernan Company,
Mr. Hutton's lecture consisted of a 
discussion of the properties, methods 
of commercial preparation, machines 
for handling, and the use of chlorine. 
In this 'discussion Mr. Hutton deI scribed the different methods of preI paring chlorine commercially,, the his
tory of its different forms in which he 
Included the first preparation of. liquid 
chlorine and how this product had 
been developed into its present day 
use. Some time was also spent in ex
plaining to the prospective engineers 
the reasons for the decline in use of 
chloride of lime for disinfecting pur
poses with a great raise in the amount 
of chlorine used for the same purpose.
' Some of the uses of chlorine dis
cussed by Mr. Hutlion, beside that of 
purification of drinking water systems, 
w,ere:' Purification of swimming pool 
water, disinfecting of sewage and dis
infecting of gasses or deordorization.
Other Interesting facts brought out 
by Mr. Hutton are that practically 75 
per' cent of the people of the United 
States drink water purified by chlor
ination, and that by reducing typhoid 
fever deaths by the chlorination of 
water, approixmately 20,000 lives a 
year are saved.
This. Seminar is a part of the re
quired curricula for the Sophomore 
class in Civil Engineering. Prominent 
engineers from the Pittsburgh give 
the lectures. to the students, and the 
faculty feels that this is quite a good 
method of imparting a wider lcnowl, edge of the civil enginneering field to 
. the newer students. After the first 
I five weekk of this semester, the semi. nar is to be conducted by the seniors 
. of the civil department.
PERSONAL
Music NotesDirector Mott returned to his office 
on Monday He will be acting president 
during the absence in Eunrope of Dr.' 
Baker.
February 16.
On Thursday evening, February 10, 
at S:30 a piano recital will be given 
at Pittsburgh Musical Institute. The 
participants will be J. C. Krimbelbine, 
Charlotte Savage, II. , Ruth Shallenberger, Margaret Lentz, Ethel Decker, 
John W. Kelso, Edna Adams, Sara 
Louise I-Iershey, Jessie Linn Gibson 
and Frank Kennedy. There is no 
charge for admission to this recital 
and the public is invited.
Dr. Marks was operated on for ap
pendicitis at 1 oclock in the morning, 
February 7 th, at the Presbyterian 
Hospital. He is doing very well.
Professor Everett Warner is to have j 
the "one man show" this year in con
nection with the annual exhibition of 
the Associated Artists of Pittsburgh, 
which will be held from February 10 
to March 9 at the galleries of the de
partment of Fine Arts, Carnegie Insti
tute. Of the 29 canvases which he | 
will exhibit, more than a third are 
subjects selected on the Carnegie 
Campus, or in the immediate vicinity.
Every student who is not entirely 
satisfied with the fineness, stiffness 
or ink fiow of his fountain pen should 
at earTiest opportunity go to. the 
Jenkins Arcade and have the Singer 
Penn & Gift Shop "fit his hand, at 
tmoderate charge. Please say The 
Carnegie "Tartan."
February 18.
On Saturday afternoon, February 18, 
at 3:15 a recital will be given by the 
junior pupils. The participants will 
be Marian Hedenburg, Aurelia Nadolski, Betty Yuridt, Anna Ord, Catherine 
Sullivan, Doris Long, Maarjorie Murfin, 
Leonard Mackell, Edgar Taggart, Dor
othy Seawright, Ruth Croft, Barbara 
Davis, Joe Hull, Bettj^ Poole, Jane 
Openlieimer, Jean Hippie, Ada Urquliart, Warren Laufe, Agnes Price, An
ne, Foote, Margaret Fowler, Jerry 
Kurtz, Jack Ellen, Jr., John Hacker, 
Eleanor Glunt, Dorothy Simpson, Anita 
Bastable, Muriel White, Margaret 
Keefe, Kim Darragh," John Fierst and 
Stanley Fowler.
i Largest selliti 
quality penci 
in the wovld
WOMENS ORGANIZATION
LAUNCH TICKET SALE
(Continued From page One.) 
respond to a most worthy cause. Pa
trons have been very solicitious in 
their response to. the appeal of the or
ganization. Among some oi the pa
tronesses are Miss Mary Watson 
Green, Miss Mary Breed, Miss Ida M. 
Allerton, Mrs. John L. Porter, Mrs. 
Carroll Miller, Mrs. Samuel Harden 
Church, Miss Martha S. Nutal, Mrs. 
F. K. Kirk Patrick, Mrs. Harriet B. 
W. Clialfant, Mrs. A. W. McEldowney, 
and Miss Sara F. Ellis. Mr. Glendenning Iveeble has consented to be a pa
tron.
American life in Paris is not all 
frivolity, said Mr. Davifd Genter, a 
student of the Engineering school in 
an address before the Le Cercle Fran
ais of the University of Pittsburgh, 
on Friday, January 20.
Mr. Genter has spent four and onehalf years in Paris, where his father 
has founded an American High school. 
There are about 2,000 American 
families living in Paris, of which a 
comparatively small number are stu
dents. The Americans have their own 
schools, churches and clubs.
Young People's Service, 11 A. M, 
Mr. SmithOur Greatest 
Resources.
Evening Service, 8 P. M. 
Ppen ForumHistory of the 
Punishment of Criminals/
The Carnegie Glee Club presented 
the second of a series of concerts at 
the Methodist Episcopal Church of 
Monongahela, Pa., last Thursday 
night. The Glee Club was well receiv
ed by the audience, and the concert 
was a success. The club is under the 
capable direction of student director, 
Walter J. Poyntz. The trip was made 
by bus, and the men enjoyed It very 
much. Manager Wilbur A. Scott is 
working hard for the success of future 
concerts. The Glee Club also gave 
a concert at the high school of that 
city in the afternoon and received 
much praise from the students. Solos 
wore given by Miss Leota MeNemry, 
Messrs. Paul Brautigan, Charles 
Shotts and Joseph Browne Patterson. 
William McDermott also gave a chalk 
talk. The program was as follows:
1. (a) Song of Fellowship............Gaul
(b) Zut.-Zut, Zut............i........Elgar
Glee Club
2. Violin Solos
(a) Frasquittt ................... Kreisler
(b) La Gitana.................. .Ivriesler
Joseph Browne Patterson
3. (a) Thou Art Repose........Schubert
(b) Finnish Lullaby ........Palmgren
(e) The Broken Melody.. .Sibelius
Glee Club
4. Xylophone Solo .................Selected
Miss Leota MeNemry
5. Three Pictures.......-....Rubinstein
Glee Club 
fi. (a) Send Out Thy Light... .Gounod 
(b) Ye Watchers and Ye Holy 
Ones.
Glee Club
7. Piano Solo ............................Selected
Charles Shotts
S. Baritone Solo .....................Selected
Paul Brautigan
9. (a) Mirage ............................... Gaul
(b) The Norsemen ..................Greig
Glee Club
10. Specialty .....................Chalk Talk
William McDermott
11. (a) Dear Old Tech..........Cameron
(b Alma-Mater ..................O'Brien
Glee Club
Sunday, February 12 
Young Peoples Sunday
LITTLE THEATER TICKETS 
TO BE DISTRIBUTED BY
(Continued From Page One.) 
Week chairman, the carrying out of 
the Senior Booklet idea and the 
rocommondatlon of sending of anothor delogate to the Mid-West Stu
dent Conference.
CARNEGIE PROGRAM
TO BE BROADCAST
TONIGHT AT 10:00
the HIYT, representative to 
show you the $6.00 Regal 
Reproduction of Londons 
Lending Shoe Style selling 
on Regent Street at 75 shil
lings ($18.25).
An English Oxford made 
from Genuine Martin's Im
ported Scotch Grain, Full 
Leather Lined, ijJG.GO.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
"Three Russian Tone Pictures"..
.................................... Rubinstein
Mens Glee Club.
3. Violin SoloSlgounerwlson" ...
............................................ Sarasotl
Raymond Bondi and Orchestra.
I. Scene from, "Macbeth"Duncans
Murder ................... Shakespeare
Irene Tedr&w and Donald Bellows 
Wilson.
5. March"Entrance of the Bojars"
........................................ Halvorsen
Symphony Orchestra.
College yells.
G. Bagpipes.
7. Alma Mater.
^60
REGALSHOES
Campus Representative 
The Mens Store of
Jageman & Spickert
6121 PENN AVENUE 
East Liberty
Cambridge. Mass.(IP)Over six 
million dollars luive been added lo 
Hie colters of Harvard university dur
ing the past year, recent reports to 
the overseers indicate. This is aside 
from the regular ten million dollar en
dowment campaign.
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Fit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
ANY way you figure it, P. A. is better tobacco. 
Take fragrance, for instance. Your well-knowsi 
olfactory organ will tell you. And tastewho 
can describe that? And mildness-you couldnt 
ask for anything milder.
Yes, Sir, P. A. is cool and comfortable sad 
mellow and mild. Long-burning, with a good 
clean ash. You never tire of P. A. it's always the 
same old friendly smoke. Get yourself a tidy 
red tin and check everything Im telling you!
Mr. Norman Frauenheim, a student 
and later a teacher in the Music De
partment at Carnegie, has returned to 
Pittsburgh after five years absence. 
He has had a great many interesting 
experiences and notable perform
ances. He has received public plau
dits from audiences in London and in 
Paris and at the Court of Spain.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
John Grotli (M. A. Organ, 1926, Car
negie Tech) is spending a few weeks 
at. Paris eu route to Berlin. Mr. 
Grotli has had the good luclc to hear 
Vieni, in Notre Diuinio and Widor in St. 
Sulpice at their consoles. CharlesMarie Widor is, in the opinion of 
many critics the most far-famed 
maestro of the organum in the world. 
Mr. Grotli will be In Cologne soon and 
thence on to Berlin to go to work.
|fv I S I O Nil J progress L
1 SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
H2CFXPXBD is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between i) A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
The more you know 
about tobaccos, the 
more you appreciate 
P. A,
Colonel Day stopped in Pittsburgh 
and attended the special performance 
of Close Harmony last week. He 
had been to Chicago to speak at a 
meeting of the western alumni of 
Swarthmore College. He returned to 
Swartlimore Thursday.
no other tobacco is like it!KAUFMANN/r. Reynolds Tobacco 'inston-Salcm, N. C.PITTSBURGHFIFTH AVENUE
SPRING RE-EXAMS GIVEN 
FEB. 25, MARCH 3, 11, 17H.S. Hutton Gives Talk 
To Seminar Class
Valentine Day Causes College Folks 
To Think of Childhood Sweethearts
RUSHING QUESTIONNAIRE 
SENT TO FRATERNITIES
Pittsburgh To Entertain 
Printers June 27-29

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
American Students offered Novel and
Extensive Tour in Europe Next SummerThe Bagpipe
WALTER BROWN ROGERS
IS NEW MAGAZINE EDITOR
Th American Institute of Munich 
under the competent direction of Dr. 
Franz Anton Pfeiffer, prominent in 
public affairs in Bavaria, has arranged 
an interesting trip for next summer. 
This extensive journey consists of a 
7,200 mile sea journey aboard the 
steamer New York of the Hamburg 
American lines. Three European coun
tries, Germany, Austria and France, 
including seven of the IS free states 
of Germany, wijl be visited. The group 
of student tourists will see 40 Euro
pean cities and towns and the most 
iamous art galleries, including those 
at Berlin, Dresden, Nuremburg, Mu
nich and Paris. Most of the famous 
cathedrals and the palaces of FriedTich the Great in Potsdam and at Ver
sailles will be visited. Many museums 
of note and interest will be in the 
well compiled itinerary.
The entire journey will take 66 days, 
four weeks of which time will be spent 
in Munich, where lectures in English 
~wui be given on geography, history, 
art and political science of Germany. 
From Munich the party will go to the 
Bavarian Alps and to visit the pictur
esque castles of Louis II, King of Ba
varia. The trip will terminate at the
end of the summer when th partywili travel up the Rhine and visit 
Paris. The total cost of the trip will 
be $695, which will be payable in three 
I installments.
! The purpose of the trip is to.bring 
about a better understanding between 
Germany and America by giving 
American students an opportunity to 
become acquainted with the respec
tive customs of the country and the 
work of their cultural institutions. At 
the specially arranged social gather
ings the travelers will enjoy meeting 
interesting personalities of German 
I public life.
j The honorary committee of advisers 
are men well known to the American 
student. Among these are Nicholas 
Murray Butler, president of Columbia 
University; Harry A. Garfield, presi
dent of Williams College; Professor 
Stephen P. Duggan, of the Institute of 
International Education; Professor 
Gustav Gruener of Yale University, 
and Profssor John A. Walz, of Har
vard University.
Students interested in such an un
dertaking may receive further infor
mation by communicating with the 
American representative, Dr. Leslie 
Dayton Bissel, Windsor, Connecticut.
ARTISTS TO HOLD BEAUX !INCREASE IN CARNEGIE 
ARTS BALL FEBRUARY 17i FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT
'
The seventh annual Beau' Arts bail 
"will be held in Hotel Scbenley on FebTuary 17. The music will be given by 
Frank Maggios William Penn Sym
phonic Orchestra of 15 men. A spe
cial feature will be a program ren
dered by a famous trio to supply the 
eveninge entertainment.
A competition fora poster advertis
ing the Beaux Arts ball was won by 
Samuel B. Filner, and second prizewas awarded to. Walter' L. Pearson. 
Both are senior students in the Paint
ing and Decoration department.
This event will enable disappointed 
arts students to enjoy ari arts ball for 
they may obtain tickets at 120 Stan-wix street upon presentation of regis
tration cards.
The ball is held under the auspices 
of the Arts Alumni' of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, the Asso^- 
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh, Pitts
burgh Chapter of tbe American Insti
tute of Architects and the Pittsburgh 
Architectural Club.
Exhibit Of German Brick 
Architecture Held Here
Students in the College of Fine Arts 
-will be interested to learn that last 
Friday, February 10, marked the date 
of the opening of a photographic exhi
bition ofBrick Architecture in 'Ger
many," both medieval and modern. 
This exhibition will be held until Feb
ruary 18 in the Beaux Arts Building, 
Stanwix street, opposite Joseph Horne 
Company, in Pittsburgh. The exhibi
tion Is free of charge.
The exhibition consists of over-500 
pictures which are divided into five 
groups. The groups consist of pic
tures of churches, of buildings for de
fense, public buildings, smaller public 
buildings, and modern buildings. The 
exhibition Is very interesting because 
the architecture of Germany is differ
ent from the architecture of Italy and 
France in craftsmanship and daring 
treatment.
This group of photographs of Ger
man architecture under the personal 
supervision of Dr. Edmund Schugler, of 
Berlin, who, for a number of years 
prior to the World War, had been a 
member of the German foreign office, 
and architectural adviser to the for6 eign secretary. Dr. Schueler was re
sponsible for the exihibit of American 
architecture, collected recently with 
theN assistance of Mr. Arthur Woltersdorf, Chicago architect, which is^now 
circulating in the leading cities of 
Germany. The German exihibit now 
In Pittsburgh was inspired by the suc
cess of the American collection in Ger
many. This exhibition will be shpwn 
in the leading cities of this country, 
after which it will find its home in the 
library of an American architectural 
school. This exhibition is offered in 
the larger cities through the co-opera
tion of the Common Brick Manufactur
ers' Association of America, and un
der the supervision o^the several dis
trict organizations of the association. 
The first showing of these photo
graphs was at the Art Institute in Chi
cago.
Carnegies fire fighting equipment 
has been increased by the addition of 
125 fire extinguishers. These^extinguishers are of the common, portable, 
soda-acid type which are operated by 
inverting the extinguisher. As a re
sult of a recommendation from the 
fire insurance bureau of the Carnegie 
Corporation these new extinguishers 
have been, installed, being placed 
chiefly in the shops of Ihe industries 
building where the danger of fire is 
greatest and at a few points where 
there is a possibility of fire.
The bureau of insurance of the Car
negie Corporation within the past few 
months conducted an invesigation of 
the school property to determine what 
might be done to further the preven
tion of fire and'to improve the fire 
fighting equipment of the school. Be
sides recommending the installation 
of the new fire extinguishers the re
port of the investigation to the Car
negie Corporation complimented the 
school on the completeness of the fire 
fighting equipment and spoke highly 
of the work that has been done to min
imize the danger from fire. 'The pres
ent equipment consists of numerous 
hose connectfons and fire extinguish
ers placed at points where there is a 
possible dangei*\from fire, and where 
the danger is extremely great as in 
the artstheatre an automatic sprink
ler system has been installed.
The location of the buildings of the 
school makes a general conflagration 
impossible and as each building is of 
fireproof construction the danger from 
fire is extremely localized, being 
chiefly in the shops and laboratories. 
*Tlie completeness of the fire fighting 
equipment at these points of danger, 
coupled with fireproof construction of 
the buildings, minimizes any fire haz
ard.
The question asked those inter
viewed this week was: What Do You 
Think About Plebe Regulations?'
A. W. Tarbell, Dean of Men: I feel 
that if we are to have them, they 
should be for a much shorter period 
of time and more thoroughly observ
ed.
Robert Bruce, Freshman in Painting 
and Decoration: "I think theyre uot 
so good. Id rather not have them beI cause they detract from the work of 
the school, and the school could do 
I without them. The bigger colleges in 
j the East are doing away with them,
I and we ought to do the same thing. 
In a way they subordinate the freslii man, but they are not of much good. 
j Joseph Patterson, Sophomore in 
j Music: I think theyre very good be
cause they make the Plebes feel in
ferior. They should be enforced 
more than they have been.
Lewis U .Davis, Sophomore in Met
allurgy: I think theyre all right if 
enforced. They stimulate school 
spirit, makes the Plebes think, and is 
a pleasant diversion from studies. 
They teach the Plebes their place, 
and gets them used to the idea that 
they cant do all that they want to 
do.
H. J. Isherwood, I. & E. Freshman: 
In one way theyre all right, because 
it breaks them in. Some Plebes after 
they graduate from high school prac
tically run wild. I think that  they 
ougTit to let Plebes wear their hats 
since it looks silly wearing the dinks 
off the campus. I think regulations 
ought to be enforced lor only one sem
ester.- The Sophs ought to put up for 
trial only those that violate the regu
lations.
E. tyl. OFlyn, Freshman in ArcliiI tecture: I think that regulations are 
all right. There is only one reason 
for them and that is to keep the fresh
man class together for their benefit, 
but otherwise theyre silly and child
ish.
| J. Fox, Senior in Home Economics:
| They would be all riglit if they were 
enforced. They are getting more lax 
I in the enforcement every year. Plebe 
regulations help the girls  to know 
each other, and as long as" the girls 
j have the right spirit about it, it should 
'do good.
Dr. Barto left yesterday for a week 
of high school visiting in Connellsville, Uniontown, Cumberland, Al
toona, Tyrone, Johnstown, Clearfield, 
DuBois, Punxsutawney, Saltaburg, Latrobe and Greensburg.
Dr. Charles R. Fettke1 presented a 
paper on Ten Years Application of 
Compressed Air at Hamilton Corners, 
pi., with Core Studies of the Produc
ing Sand, at the New York meeting 
of the American Institute of Mining 
and Metallurgical Engineers, which 
was held this month.
(Continued From Page One-) 
serving as reporter, alumni editor and 
news editor, and has been on , the 
staffs of the Puppet and the Thistle. 
She was an associate editor of last 
years Campus Week Squeek. Harold 
Jacobson has also taken an active, part 
in the editorial department of the Tar
tan, chiefly as a feature writer. He 
holds the position of junior editor this 
year and Is famous for originating 
Thistledown Column, and for his in
terviews with prominent visitors to 
Pittsburgh.
The representatives from the Col
leges of Industries and Engineering 
will be announced within a short time.
Tom Brown, Sophomore in the Me
chanical Engineering department, Is 
to serve as secretary of the stliff. He 
is a member of Beta Theta PI and of 
Druid. He has done some very good 
work on the Thistle this year.
A number of other positions are as 
yet unfilled on the staff. All those in
terested in securing competitive posi
tions should attend the next meeting 
of the staff on Wednesday.
The first issue of the new magazine 
will appear as the Spring Issue. The 
magaziue is to be published four times 
a year, beginning with--.the 192S-1929 
school year.
Contributions for the magazine are 
solicited from the members of all col
leges and classes. They - should be 
sent to Walter Rogers, 5549 Forbes 
street, Pittsburgh. The magazine, in 
content, will consist of short stories, 
poetry and verse, plays, book reviews, 
and criticisms of literature, art and 
life. Technical articles also will make 
up a part of the contents. The variety 
and. scope of the material offers an 
opportunity for students in all four 
colleges to contribute to the magazine. 
Features that will interest artists, en
gineers, cooks, seamstresses, scien
tists and future executives will be in
cluded among the articles printed. 
That the magazine will, be representa
tive of the needs and desires of all 
four colleges is assumed by the pres
ence of an associate editor from each 
school on the editorial staff.
The announcement that Carnegie is 
to have a literary magazine has come 
after, more than a year of tentative 
plans, meetings which failed to pro
duce tangible results, and suggestions 
which bore no fruit. That there is a 
need for. such a magazine has long 
been felt. Especially since the Shill
ing and the Technical Journal are no 
longer in existence.
One of the most important decisions 
to be made about the new magazine Is 
Its name. The contest begun In a re
cent issue of the Tartan is still going 
on. A prize will bo given to the per
son whose suggestion for a name Is
DEATH
The Tartan regrets to announce the death of Mary W.  
Gans, freshman student registered in the Library Course of  
Margaret Morrison, on February  
12, 1928, at Connellsville, after a  
short illness which developed into pneumonia.
The funeral will be held Wed4 
nesday afternoon from the home  
of her parents, 738 Rossmor avenue, South Side, Pittsburgh.
Not Always Best Plan
Compromise is but the' sacrifice of 
one right or go.od In the hope of re
taining anothertoo often ending In 
the loss of both.Edwards.
accepted. The contest will close 
March 1st.
On Wednesday at 4:30 a meeting of 
the staff will be held in room 106, Col
lege of Fine Arts. At this meeting a 
last opportunity will be given to stu
dents who desire a staff position on 
the new magazine. The new maga
zines the thing. Come and offer your 
services.
U. S. NAVAL POST-GRADUATES 
TO TAKE METALLURGY HERE
Arrangements are being made for 
two officers of the post-graduate school 
of the U. S. Naval Academy to take a 
course in metallurgy here next year. 
Two officers in 1923 took a similar 
course and were awarded the degree 
of Bachelor of Science in Metallurgi
cal Engineering. The head of the post
graduate school wrote of these officers 
as follows: The courses arranged for 
them were thoroughly satisfactory to 
the post-graduate school and the offi
cers themselves were enthusiastic of 
the treatment received and the facili
ties afforded at the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. The men who will 
come next year are the first since 1923 
to be assigned to specialize in ord
nance metallurgy.
At the February 9th luncheou meet
ing of the industrial training section 
of the Pittsburgh Personnel Associa
tion, Director Jewett will be the chair
man and Mr. Beatty the secretary. 
The luncheon will be held at the Hotel 
Henry at 12: 30 p. m. The subject for 
discussion will be Training Men to 
Be Foremen or Training Foremen to 
Be What? 
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
An Oakland institution
It is the fundamental policy of the Oakland Savings and 
Trust Company that its first obligation, is, to tjlie individual, 
citizen and the business interests of its own district. How 
will it(affect Oakland 1 is always our first thought when con
sidering the merits of any proposition submitted to us.
Thriving on the prosperity of the community, it is ob-^ 
viously our plain duty to assist that community by extending 
to its merchants, wherever possible, such credit as they are 
entitled to under the rules 01 conservative banking.
We recognize that1 our continued growth and prosperity 
depend primarily upon the up-building o 1: the community we 
serve, and we are keen to discover new ways and means to es
tablish, in even greater degree, the growing importance oil 
Oakland as a civic factor in Pittsburgh\s Progress.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
Member X^cderal Reserve System 
Forbes and Meyran Avenues
CYD
A COLLEGE BOOKSHELF
(By Intercollegiate Press)
The Garden of Eden has been 
"done again. This time the story is 
Eden by Murray Sheehan (E. P. 
Dutton & Co., $2). and it is rather 
refreshing after Adam and Eve 
which Professor Erskine so recently 
imposed NYTXX us.
Mr. Sheehan has had no desire to 
be smart, He has not attempted to 
reproduce in modern dress and langu
age a beautiful old legend. He simply 
lias drawn upon his kindly and hu
morous imagination and enlarged 
upon the story, making it more beauti
ful, if we may say so.
Eve in Eden is not the Eve of 
"Adam and Eve. Rather it is Lilllth 
who is the discordant note. 
For, as we learn, Lillith was not 
of God, nor .of His creation. She was 
a spirit loose in the universe and un
confined; young as a new-born babe, 
and full of evil ways as an old and 
ugly woman: all experience was hers, 
and all wisdom; yet she was avid of 
sensation and eager of the flesh. She 
was not of Gods hands nor His 
mind. Yet she sought the goodliest of 
His works, and knew, when she would, 
the thoughts of His thinking.
So we have Lillith as the cause of 
all trouble, Eve the admirable charac
ter, and Adam a somewhat mistaken 
but noble person.
Professor Garnett has been elected i 
an honorary life member of the rej 
cently formed Book Club of Lost An
geles.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
announces aFree Lecture on Christian Science
------by------
SALEM ANDREW HART, C. S., OF CLEVELAND, OHIO
Member of the Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church, the First 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1928 
At 8:15 P. M.
CHURCH EDIFICE 
CLYDE STREET NEAR FIFTH AVENUE 
Cars 73 or 76 
The ^ublic is Cordially Invited to Attend.
A. H. ASHLEY
I attended Michigan State College, 
taking subjects necessary to pa*s 
examinations for a commission in 
the United States Army.. At the 
time, I was a member of the Mich
igan National Guard. Before my 
college work was over, we were 
called on duty in the copper mines 
I of Northern Michigan. Here, 1 
served as first Lieutenant in charge 
of police work In Keweenaw 
County.
This duty lasted about a year. 
Upon my return a very close friend 
explained to me the exceptional 
. opportunitiesoffered^by the Kresge 
company. While this proposition 
was entirely out of my line of work 
it sounded so interesting that I 
decided to give it a trial.-
Starting as a stockman in the small 
store in Zanesville, Ohio, was quite 
a come down and many times 1 
felt that I had made a serious 
mistake. Now, looking back over 
my past twelve years with the 
Kresge Company, I can see how 
fortunate I was to have made the 
change. I have no regret to offer 
and I am positive that from U 
monetary standpoint I am way to 
the good. From a social or busi
ness standpoint the same thing 
is tru.
During the World War I was a 
Major of Field Artillery In the 
32nd Division, and I was offered a 
promotion to Lieutenant Colonel 
if 1 would remaio in Germany to 
assist in taking over the army prop
erty as the troops left for home. 
This I refused to do aa 1 was 
anxious to.get back to the Kresije 
Company and find my place in 4 
9tore again.
A. H. ASHLEY.
NOTE; Since Mr. Ashley wrote the 
above, he has received another pro
motion to the ble St. Paul tcore.
football Star Wins
AMONG the many college graduates who have won 
\ success with the S. S. Kresge Company is A. H. 
Ashley, former football star and four letter man of M. S. C.
Like other men who have found their lifes work with 
this organization, Ashley started in at the very bottom/ He 
was led, step by step, through the various positions in our 
stores until he was thoroughly acquainted with every 
branch of our business. Then he was given a store of 
his own to manage  a dignified, well-paying position 
which carries with it a share in the profits earned. '
We now have a few opportunities open for college men 
to do just what Ashley did-start at the bottom and 
work their way to the top. If you are interested in a 
future where hard work brings its own reward, write to 
our personnel department at once. We will gladly arrange 
a meeting with a graduate of your own college who has 
already won success with the Kresge organization.
PERSONNEL DEPT. 1
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES - ' - 25c. to $1.00 STORES 
KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

NATIONAL LEAGUEThis TobaccoCommittee Appointed to In
vestigate Rifle Situation
Plebes Drop Meets to Pitt 
Freshmen and Univers
ity Prep School
Pitt and Penn State Losses 
Show. Poor Condition 
and Teamwork
Sigma Nu ................
Theta XI ...................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Nu Delta Alpha
Welch Hall ..............
Phi Kappa Pai ..........
Kappa Sigma ...........
Hendersdh. Hall ....
Jasper, Tenn.March 23, 1927Lams & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
I have always wanted to smoke a pipe. After several attempts I gave my taste up, for with each trial I 
got a blistered tongue.One evening, when looking over a certain outdoor magazine, I read that 
a certain fisherman could catch more fish when using Edgeworth, so I decided I would try his tobacco for I am no poor fisherman!The next day I tried to secure Edgeworth. The local country storekeeper did not have it, so I sent by a friend to the city for my first Edgeworth. Two 
things have happened: I still smoke Edgeworth, and the local storekeeper always has a supply.I catch fish and never get a bite 
from Edgeworth!Yours for keeps,H. V. Massey
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
At the W. A. A. Board meeting held 
last Wednesday, the point system pre 
viously submitted by the Point Com
mittee, was accepted with a few slight 
alterations. Hiking and life saving 
are to be considered as extra sports 
and are not to be classed as major or 
minor sports. As many as 50 extra 
points may be received for engaging 
in either of these two activities. A 
slight change was also made in anoth
er clause which now freads: No one
is allowed to play on more than one 
minor and two major teams, or the 
equivalent of such, in one year.
Among other matters taken up by 
the Boar'd, was the question 6f rifle 
recognition. It was decided that a 
committee be appointed to. investigate 
the matter and learn what is being 
done at other colleges in regard to 
this sport. The committee appointed 
is as follows: Florence Bright, Eve
lyn Goldenson, Irene LaLonde, and 
Dorothy Roy.
Carnegie,'s tankmen opened their 
season last Friday afternoon by ,droping meets to the Pitt varsity 58 to 8, 
and to the Pitt freshmen 4G to 10. 
The plebes continued their losing 
streak on Saturday when they were 
taken over by the University School 
of Cleveland.
The Pitt contests wore in the form 
of a duel meet being held at the same 
time in the Carnegie pool. A fair sized 
enthusiastic crowd witnessed the 
events. In the races, Pitt held a de
cided advantage but the diving was 
more closely contested. Tlvree men 
tied for second and third places and 
two extra dives were made by each 
of the three before a decision could 
be reached. The diving was especially 
pleasing to the spectators calling 
forth time and again outbursts of ap
plause. Beecji, the diminutive plebe 
diver, gave a neat exhibition which 
evoked much praise.
Despite the score, the Tartan show
ing was not worthy of censure. This 
was their first^meet of the season and, 
for many of the boys, it was their first 
entry into fast competition. Let it 
suffice to say they fought hard, con-^ 
testing every point. Pitt, undeniably, 
has a team that is strong and expe
rienced. Prior to this meet, they had 
been on an'eastern trip where they 
defeated several of the larger col
leges including West Point. The re
turn meet, when Tech lias had more 
opposition, should be decidedly closer.
The plebes defeat on Saturday, 45 
to 14, was not quite expected as Tech 
had been rated nearly an even break. 
Here, again, the diving was. close 
with Rysbanck and Laundon tied for 
second and third places, while Beech, 
running true to Fridays form, cap
tured Hri
There have been no varsity meets 
scheduled for this week. The var
sity's next encounter will be on Sat
urday, the 25th, with Wooster,' in the 
local pool. The plebeB have a meet 
pending with Peabody High, for Sat
urday afternoon of this week, here. 
Schenley High will be met on the fol
lowing Saturday.
Pitt Vnrsity, 5G; Tech Varsity, 8.
RO-yard dashWright, .Pitt, 1; Man
go, Pitt, 2; Blazlfls, Tech, 1.' 0-24.2.
220-yard dashLithgow; Pitt, 1; 
Robb, Pitt, 2; Hobo, Tocli, 3. 249.3.
J.50-yard backHarper, Pitt, 1; 
Mango, Pitt, 2; Durr, Tech, 3. 2-00.2.
100-yard breast  /Bower, Pitt, 1;
/ Jackson, Pill, 2; Sangstor, Tecli, 3.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won
Beta Sigma Rho .
Scobell Hall ........Delta Upsilon___
Phi Kappa ...........
Alpha Tau Omega 
Pi Kappa Alpha .. 
Kappa Sigma Rho 
Beta Theta Pi ...
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Boss Hall .............
Delta Tau Delta . 
Sigma Phi Epsilon
McGill Hall ..........Phi Sigma Kappa 
Alpha Sigma Phi 
Delta Phi Delta .. 
Delta Mu ..............
TARTANS SUCCUMB
TO PANTHER AND
LION INVASIONSIntra-Mural i 
Briefs
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
Toronto, Ont. (IP)Damage esti
mated at $50,000 was done to the Med
ical Building of the University of De
troit,when fire of unknown origin 
broke out on the third floor among 
the research laboratories, and' spread 
quickly to the second and fourth 
floor's.
The principal loss was to experi
mental apparatus, and to experiments 
which had been under way for several 
years. Valuable records also were 
destroyed.
Students of the university, sighting 
a mid-year recess, gathered about the 
burning building and cheered. But 
their vacation failedto materialize.
(Continued From Page One.) 
of tneir ability; we can asx, and they 
can give, no more, 
i The linup:
Carnegie............. .... Penn State.
Brown ...................F................................................. Jackobson
Harpster ..............F................... Hamas
Bond ......................C..............Brownstein
White ....................G___...... Wilson
Hitchcock ............G.........----- Baron
Score
Penn State ..........................................25
Carnegie ...............................................21
Stretching Your Income
Only through careful, system
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ac
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
Carnegie. Pitt.
Brown ..................F................. Hyatt
Harpster ........F...................................................................... Zeyfus
Bond .... i........C......... Wundeiiick
White ....................G.................... Reed
Hitchcock ............G.-------- Wrobleski
Pitt .................................................................................................50
Carnegie ........................>v 28
Substitutions  Carnegie  Crum, 
Letzelter, High. PittCohen, McMillen, Fisher, .Sandher.
STUDENT 
SUPPLIES
C. M. STFTPaper From Wood Pulp
Chnrles Fenerty experimented for 
many years and in 1841 made public 
his Invention of the process for mak
ing paper 'from wood pulp.
OAKLAND
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
PINIONSTodh, Laundon, U. S., tied for second 
and third.
RelayU. S., 1; Tech,, 2. .1-50.4.
U. S.Krops, William, Hammin, 
McLaughlin.
TechRodding, Kranier, Lawton, 
Williamson,
RelayPitt, I; Toch, 2. 5-3-1.
Pitt---Lithgow, Mango, Jackson, 
Bo won.
Toch Blazltls, Bush, Wray, ITobo. 
Diving---Wright, Pitt, J.; Hornhostlo, 
Toch, 2; Bowen, Pitt, 3.
Pitt Plohos, 4(1. Toch Plobos, 10. 
Rolay--Pitt, I; Toch, 2. 1-52.2.
I'ltl, Swenson, StoulTan, Valontlno, 
Wooldvidgo.
Toolv Rodding,/ Kramor, Ulggott, 
Williamson.
DivingPooch, Toch, I: Swenson, 
Pll.t, 2; Mawhlnnoy, Pitt, 3.
50-yanl dash -Wooldridge, Iltl,, I; 
StoulTan, Pitt, 2; Williamson, Toch, 3, 
U(L7.
220-yard dashValontlno,1 Pitt, 1; 
Mawhlnnoy, l:>itt, 2; Bang'll, Toch, 3.
Pinions get all the speed there is in 
the engine of a motor car.
Timken Bearings on the pinions infal
libly carried all the speed of the three 
Studebaker Commanders which totaled 
75,000 miles, at well over a mile a min
ute, in the Atlantic City record run. All 
the recent Studebaker records were 
made with Timken-equipped pinions.
Standard on pinions of the Studebaker 
and a long list of other makes, Timken 
Bearings preserve alignment and quiet 
from the threat of speed, thrust, shock, 
torque, and friction.
Spiral gears with increasing thrust, higher 
gear ratios, higher motor speeds, and 
x the importance of rigidity hasten the 
\ trend toward Timken Tapered 
, Roller Bearings" for pinions.
Ifc \ THETIMKEN ROLLER BEARING 
Rggte \ COMPANY, CANTON, OHIO
In Studebaker cars Timken 
V 'SN Bearings are standard oil the
pinion,- in the differen-**v tial, rear wheels, front 
\ wheels, and steering pivots.
LEARN TO DANCESigma Alpha Epsilon 
Kappa Sigma............BackMawhlnnoy, Pitt, 1;. Wool
dridge, Pitt, 2; Baugh, Tech, 3. 1-21.
100-yard breastStouffan, Pitt, 1; 
Valentine, Pitt,-2; Williamson, Tech. 
1-5-1.
100-yard breastSwensen, Pitt, 1; 
Rosenburg, Pitt, 2; Logan, Tech, 3.
Nu Delta. Alpha 
Henderson Hall'
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons by appointment. '
Mayflower 7891
American LeagueDelta Upsilon ........
Kappa1-Sigma RhoUniversity School, 45. Tech Plebes,
Beta Sigma Rho . 
Alpha Tau Omega100-yard backWilliams, U. S., 1; 
Pickand, U. S., 2; Baugh, Tech, 3. 
1-24.7.
220-yard dashMcLaughlin, U. S., 
1; Laudon, U. S., 2; Bergman, Tech,
3. 3-1.3.
100-yard breastSmith, U. S., 1; 
Logan, Tech, 2; Pickand, U. S., 3. 1-24.
100-yard dashMcLaughlin, U. S., 
1; Ivreps, U. S., 2; Williamson, Tech
3. 1-10-4.
50-yard dashKreps, U S., .1; Wil
liams, U. S., 2; Williamson, Tech, 3. 
.28-2.
Diving BeechTech 1; Rysbanck.
Phi Kappa .. 
Beta Theta Pi
Schobell. Hall . 
Pi Kappa Alpin
Federal LeaguerBoss Hall ............
Phi Sigma Kappa
Delta Tau Delta 
Alpha Sigma Phi
Sigma Phi Epsilon 
Delta Phi Delta ..ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 s Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
McGill Hall ................ ........................27
Delta Mu ............................................. 8
This Week's Schedule. 
Tuesday, February 14, 192S
Phi Kappa vs. Delta Upsilon, 7:30. 
Beta Theta l3i vs. Kappa Sigma Rho,
Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Boss I-Iail, 8:30. 
Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. McGill, 7:30. 
Thursday, February 1G, 192S
Phi Kappa Psi vs. Welch Hall. 7:30. 
Nu Delta Alpha vs. Kaappa Sigma, 
7:30.
Scobol Hall vs. Alpha Tau Omega, 
S: 30.
Delta Phi Della vs. Della Mu, S: 30.
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c$1.00$1.50 PER PAIR
AuShammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square Established 1872
What He Had in Mind
No doubt the Prodigal Son repented 
'efore he went home, hut he really 
>vent home to eatExchange.
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928
CARNEGIE MERMEN i Plebes Drop Two 
LOSE TO PANTHERS More In Weeks PlayIntra-Mural League Standings W. A. A. APPROVES
NEW POINT SYSTEMNever Gets 
a "Bite From

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
A lain-colored Oxford Shirts
. . collar-attached .. blue, green or 
tan . . a Horne special at $3.00.
Plain-Colored Crepe Ties, $1.50 
Colored Pearl Tie Pins, $2.00
ETLDNC FTRID YT
and you fhoal^y decide "b
IRAKIS The SUPR6MS SfsCRiFlC IiO order To FRams AkJ ALI6I
A P/SCKA'e A CTAR.XONJ
P L.D GOLDS,)} Of= H6M-AMD-HAVM5 
MRVXJH(FPLE ?JL---------. -----?-----^
WIL AMK UNEFaA ceDNUNi frn 
EKt Squd oro YooR
KttK. CUKt owes wofte
i 8FMU2! FCUPL OP vayeiSKS at
Pi NJS HURST
VJULON' T HURT MB
FoR AMmp 
LVWA fMIKE 
INiO.!! OLD
DTNeGntaftRiey
7aT y4.&\ OR vt^UR5> is Tec*Fu6i_e,Peter.
i THINK Vou OUGHT r~J
T-^ET sVFu To A t VJftRrABR CLlt'AATE. I
5om more. '
HEMArvjD HA'JJS/ 
MR.uJH'FPI-E ?
On the Plaid ScreenGirls Rifle Team 
Enters N.R.A. Match
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
First Stage of Contest Fired
Last Week; Two More 
Stages to Follow
The basket ball team faces Geneva and Notre Dame this week, the for
mer on Wednesday and the latter on Friday. Carnegie lost a game to Geneva | 
several weeks ago, at Beaver Falls, and the Covenanters are coming to j 
Pittsburgh determined to repeat that triumph.
The fighting Irish are coming to town with a very creditable record, and 
'with two objects in mindto defeat" Carnegie' by as large a score as they i
can pile up, and to break Pitt's winning streak'on the day following. tj10 \yomen*s Rifle Team has enterJudging from past performances, Carnegie should lose both games, not ! cd tlle annuili intercoleciate match of
because they are an interior team, but because they have been unable to get th National Rifle Association. Thegoing at top speed and stay that way for a full game. The men on the team , , . r , . ,,____
compare favorably as basket ball players with those on many teams which atc1' !? ,nre'1,,three ,stafeshave taken their measure, but something is wrong. What that something is, | targets being shot 111 each stage and 
as hard to say with certainty, but its existence is undeniable. ;1)04:11 011 same day. The Carnegie******* | women completed the first stageof
the match last week and the other two 
stages will be fired during the next 
two weeks. The score of the first 
target fired during each of these 
three weeks is counted in the school 
match of that week as well as in the 
j Intercollegiate match. Last week the 
| school match was with the University 
Pitt continued its march toward a clean sweep of all athletics for the -f Nevada and Oklahoma Agricultural 
year by defeating Carnegie's swimming team on Friday afternoon. It was j and Mechanical College. This week 
the first meet of the year for the Skibos, and the PantheiJ mermen made the they compete with the University of 
most of it. I Delaware and with Drexel Institute.
Captain Wright, of the victors, lowered the district record for the fiftyj Last year, the N. R. A. match was 
yard free style swim, in addition to winning the hundred and the dive, -won by George Washington UniverWright and his teammate Bowen, breast stroke artist, are rated as two of ( s^y Washington, D. C., Carnegie takTlie Pitt and State games during the past week illustrate tlit point men
tioned above. In both instances, after a mediocre first half performance, 
the team got started and completely outplayed its opponents during the sec
ond half.
The plebes displayed a brand of play which was directly opposite to 
that of the varsity. At the opening of the past weeks games they dazzled 
their opponents, jumping off to a commanding lead, only to slow up in the 
second half and lose the game.
the best college swimmers in the country.
Carnegie was forced to be content with thirds in everything but the dive, j 
in which Balser placed second. Coach Risedorph was well satisfied, how
ever, for he ahd no veteran material, and his boys got the benefit of a good 
practice session, in addition to picking up a few ideas from observation of 
some mighty good swimmers in action.*******
The intra-mu'ral basket ball season got under way last Monday, and 
already some upsets have been recorded. Of these, the most startling was 
the 17-6 setback which the Kappa Sigs received at the hands of the S. A. 
E.s. The 1927 champs were generally conceded an excellent chance to win 
their league title, but lack of practice, together with a surprisingly good op
ponent, proved their undoing.*******
Doc Marks, genial school physician and assistant football coach, under
went an operation for appendicitis last Tuesday, at the Presbyterian hos
pital. Doc had been in excellent health, in fact was making'preparations to 
leave this week for California with the advance guard of the Pirates, to act as their training camp medico, when stricken.
The operation was entirely successful and recovery has been so rapid that 
hospital attendants report that Doc will be permitted to return to his home 
tomorrow. If lie-continues convalescing at his present rate, lie will no doubt leave for the coast in about two weeks.*******
The intra-mural basket ball games scheduled for next Monday will prob
ably be called off on account of the benefit theater performance that evening, at the Alvin theater.
Intercollegiate Briefs
BRASENOSE BEER IS
FAMOUS IN RHYME
Retirement of College Brewer Spurs 
Historians
London.  The ale brewed at 
Queens College, Oxford, has over
flowed into the papers of late in con
sequence of the retirement of the 
brewer; but the Queens is by no 
means the only Oxford College famous 
IJnr its ale, Jesus College used also to 
put in a claim, as is attested in the 
familiar Oxford Limerick:
There is a tall freshman o^ Jesus 
Whose looks are sufficient to freeze 
us;
In his boots he wears nails,
And his home is in Wales 
And he lives on the strong beer of 
Jesus.
Most famous of all the Oxford ales, 
however, is that of Brasenose. There 
is a book about it, printed for private 
circulation by Vincent of Oxford, in 
1857, now'lying on the editorial table. 
Its introduction explains its purport.
A series of poems is here present
ed on a theme abundantly familiar to 
all members of B. N. C.; for whom 
alone, in all probability, the following 
pages will possess any interest. To 
tliefn it may seem almost superfluous 
to mention that the Butler of the Col
legeis bound by immemorial custom 
to produce in Hall annually o;i Shrove 
Tuesday a copy of Verses in praise of 
the College Ale; accompying which 
a special brew is made for the day 
and supplied ad libitum to every in
mate of the College.
The Butler Tells 
Butlers, however,' are not chosen 
primarily; for their skill in composing 
poetry; so we are not surprised to 
find the introduction continuing:
The Butler finds it incumbent on 
him to state that though personally 
Responsible for the production of the 
panegyric, his acknowledgments are 
due to the Junior members of the 
College, from some of whom he has 
never failed, on his request, to ob
tain a lcirnl supply. This species of 
literary complicity .is believed to have 
been alwkys an understood arrange
ment; and may be traced by living 
tradition as far back as the time 
when the office of Butler was filled 
by a brother of Dr. Barker, formerly 
Principal of the College.
In an effort to interest the average 
business man in Economics the Pol
lack Foundation has been putting out 
several books of late, all of which are 
so written as to be worthy of reading 
by everyone, economically inclined or 
otherwise.
But by far .the most unique of these 
editions is the latest The Road to 
Plenty, by Professor Foster and Mr. 
Catchings. The. former, it is our be-, 
lief, wrote the book, the latter had 
much to do with paying the expenses.
No matter. The entire book is in 
conversational style. The scene is 
laid in the Pulman car smoker going 
from Boston to Chicago. The various 
types of men who enter and take part 
in the conversation, which a bit of 
unnaturally (of course) tends toward 
the unemployment problem, give the 
various viewpoints and arguments 
which are to be advanced.
There is the Self Made Man, the 
Bond Salesman, the Bishop. These 
three leave early after having contri
buted nothing. Then there are the 
lawyer and the business man and the 
professor, the labor organizer and tile 
typical salesman, and the brakeman.
Each lias his own point of view. 
And strangely enough, since the book 
was written by the professor of eco
nomics that Mr. Foster is, it is the 
business man ho has the right ideaaccording to Foster.
We had a feeling -in reading the 
book that perhaps Mr. .Foster was not 
exactly fair to all of the classes repre
sented. We dislike to believe that 
the average economics professor is 
as snobbish as he of the pulman 
smoker. But we enjoyed the little 
slam made by one of the party when 
he commented, "Economics professor 
write books-to be read only-by other 
economics professors.
However, after several hundred 
miles of travel and several hours of 
bickering, the men come around some
what to the business mans point of 
viewa point of view which we shall 
let you discover-for yourself, for you 
should read the book.
ing fourth place. With a number of 
last years good shots on the team, as 
well as some splendid new material, 
the Carnegie team should be able to 
make an \even better showing this 
year.
University of California.The days 
of forty-nine are recalled when one 
thinks of the Alexander F. Morrison 
Library collection, recently added to 
the University of California library. 
It contains books on California history 
depicting California and San Francisco 
in 1S45, before the gold rush when 
half a dozen shacks, a road, and Tele
graph Hill marked what was destined 
later to be a metropolis.
Books of travel, history, Irish and 
Scottish legend, and national tradition 
are included in the gift. Quaint old 
poetry collections of authors never 
commonly heard of, and much of the 
older fiction are found here.
Brown University.The men stu
dents of Brown University which for 
many years was not a Co-educational 
institution, have finally decided to rec
ognize the college for women in the 
university. The university paper, run 
by the men of course, printed an ar
ticle signed by the majority of the 
men in which it requested the name, 
"Womens College in Brown Univer, 
sity," be changed to Pembroke Col
lege of Brown University.
This marks the doing away with a 
tradition almost as old as the univer
sity itself.
New Haven, Conn.(IP)His train
ing in running the mile was of use to 
George B. Berger, Jr., a senior at 
Yale college recently, when he chased 
and captured a local College Crook 
who for months had been making way 
with campus fur coats.
Berger and Horton Spltzer were 
seated in the Delta Kappa Epsilon 
house on York street, when they 
heard a noise in an adjoining room. 
Upon investigation they discovered 
the cause to be Vincent Bowdon, 
known to police as The College 
Crook, in the act of climbing in a 
window.
Seeing that he was discovered Bow
don beat a hasty retreat, but Bergers 
training on the cinder track proved 
him the better man, and after several 
blocks, during which Bowdon once 
nearly knocked him down, he succeed
ed in. bringing the offender to the 
police.
Vienna(IP)Vienna university
students who object to her appearing 
here have been the cause for throw
ing a police \guard about Josephine 
Baker, American Negro dancer, who 
is appearing here.
Students assembled in front of the 
hotel to which she had been escorted, 
but were kept from doing damage by 
police. At the theater they threw tear 
bombs which caused several women 
to faint. Twelve of them were then 
arrested, according to police head'quarters.
Ohio University.  Dr. Frank D. 
Bachman, a former professor at Ohio 
University delivered himself of the 
following at a recent assembly:
I am increasingly impressed with 
the fact that dress, manners, and the 
It is difficult, and in most cases ability to use good spoken English, go 
impossible, to identify the Junior j even5 further toward determining the 
Members of the College who wrote \ success of a man or woman than his 
the Butlers poetry for him, for their intelligence. Brains alone will not 
compositions are signed only with in-1 iake young men and women into the
Aint It a Grand and Glorious FeelinfBy BRIGGS
itials; but the poem of 1869 was the 
work of a distinguished authorT. 
Humphry Ward, subsequently the 
liusbaaiid of the eminent author of 
Robert Ellesmere. Here are two 
stanzas from it:
Oh! Brasenose Ale, I shrewdly guess 
You, if you have a conscience 
To many blunders must confess.
To many hours of idleness
And failures in Responsions. 
How oft you helped us at the boats, 
For which we have to thank 
you!
How many lligh and tuneful notes 
Did you elicit from the throats
Of gentlemen who drank you!
Montreal, Canada
high executive offices of this world, 
for a man is evaluated for his appear
ance and for his culture, the speaker 
continued.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Illinois Wesleyan College.Illinois 
Wesleyan is proud to present to The 
American Magazine the loving cup for 
popularity among the general public. 
Good Housekeeping came in a close 
second and following it came The Sat
urday Evening Post,. a runner up of 
long standing. Honorable mention is 
given to the following magazines, 
which crossed the line in order men
tioned: The Cosmopolitan, The La
dies Honie Journal, The Atlantic 
Monthly, The Theater Magazine, The 
Womans Home Companion, The Gold
en Book.Ohio University.
spkN You'Re
itu the 3es~r
OF HEALTH 
0UT FE6L 
. YoU, MU ST 
(SET AVAJAV 
\q PltUEHlJRS i 
FoR A
OF1
hRJOOGo rl 
PTHY,B
And )4. crare The missus.
/MTO M.AKIHC3 A .^,1LLIAMT 
v5uG0E5TloM
AMD 1KS19E of= tojo dayS You 
Dev/6 LOP A COUGH rvwcvr - 
listens like this. First;
, r1 The. P4ADU994,
.aily
I.ho 
for
1 1 llllK
J.5 '
afiHOHfinimilH
OH-H-HBOY AIM'T IT A
GRR'RANO AHD
gPTY!1Y1YdTvLG rU2NBLr:
The Smoother and Better Cigarette 
, not a cough in a carload
1928. P. LorilUrd Co., liai. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, F E BRUARY 14, 1928
SECOND BUSH SCHOLAR 
THINKS FAILURE NEEDLESS
ccAdmirable Lot of Cops
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
Publinbed on; every week during the collo 
year by under^ftdujltcn of Carnegie Inntltute 
 of Technology. Entered In the Pititflburgh 
Pont Office 08 Bocnd-claij matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ..................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor................Milton Cohen
Nbwh Editor..............Margaret RuBBell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred WoodWomen'll Editor.......................Joan Roy
Alumni Editor..............Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
RussellBuljinger William RoseA. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Schnieder ' Meredith StumpHelen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS
S. C. Ralston Harold JacobsonDorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. Ina Hansell
E. Jareraa E. Schlesinger
T. Lippert U! KannW. W. Hay j L!L McAteer
, C. Boyd
Ki m5"!6 K. ODonnellH. N. Moixner *"J Garne RBramson
H. Svtason H. Whltemil
J. W. Eason R' ,H. Booth A. M. Hher
M. Echele J. B. White
N. Kline M. B. Maze
W. H. Worland C. R. Nelson
W. H. Martsolf O. F. Ackenheil
O. M. Wilson A. F. Phillips
L. I. Shusset
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. II. Seibert
Assistants R. Wehrle
T. R. Zenc D. H. Gentor
CIRCULATION STAF-F 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants
G. Brahmst. A. FrankJ. Roth A. Haynes
G. C. Harbison C. E. BlassG. Thompson S. Bluestone
B. Wedner I. LevinA. Teplitz S. Feigenbaum
M. Malinich J. P. Jones
R. W. Carter D. Seville
S. A. Bontonari
OfficeRoom 12, Induntrion Bulldlnjr. Office HouriMonday to Thurndayn, 12:30-l :20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To intjurc publication on tho nucceedinK 
Tuciklay, nt'wii Itemn muni) be In the ntndent 
poat office or Tartan Office boforo 4:30 Thurs
day.After Office Hourn call Sclicnley 1490, 
Schcnley 0840, Schonlcy 0211.
REGULATIONS
The sopohomores seem to have be
come very lax in the work of enforc
ing regulations. If regulations are to 
be had at all especially if they are to 
be respected as a tradition they should 
be enforced.
Freshmen rules become ridiculous 
when their enforcement Is a joke. 
Tho result, is even more unsatisfactory 
than no regulations whatsoever would 
bo.
Tho responsibility of maintaining 
regulations has boon left with the 
Hopohomoro class. Their officers 
p, should do ovorything posslblo to orj3,)Wnfiniz tho group for tho purpose of 
Toch^Vcin.K froshmon regulations, and 
Diving Hoop it from being tho joke 
Tech 2* Hi other classes, much less that 
Pitt Plobol1,
RelayPH'
PI 1,1- - Swell'---
Wocudvidgj 
To oil 
Williamson.
Diving
nJook Review
M.VIEW OF THE LOVE NEST
By RING W. LARDNER
Ring W. Lard nor, has suffered as an 
artist, from tlio fact that his caroor 
us a writer has been inovitably linked 
with tho prizo ring, tho national sport, 
and tlio newspaper column.' Not that 
I disparage in any sense these note
worthy and amusing aspects of the 
vast and complicated American pan
orama, for each has its own particu
lar and not vapid distinction. But 
Lardners reputation was first made 
as a humorous writer on sporting 
events, and the public has been loathe 
to distinguish between Lardner the 
real craftsman and Lardner the jolly 
fellow extracting sheckles from the 
newspaper lords.
Years now since Lardner developed 
into a literary gentleman of distinc
tion, the public is still subject to eye
brow raising when his name is men
tioned in connection with the Ameri
can short-story and American litera
ture in general.
Strangely enough, Lardners reputa
tion now rests largely on his ability 
to portray vividly the lives and na
tures of these same people that for 
years he viewed as sport-craftsmen: 
the prizefighter, the ball-player. His 
first distinguished creation, the now 
almost fabulously famous Al, showed 
the effect of years of close study of 
sport types, of yoars of study of hu
man nature in all its phases. But his 
reputation now rosts on a broader 
ground, for there aro dozens of othor 
folk, real folk, of tho soil or of tho gut
ter or of tho loss restricted world now 
under his oyo. No longor is ho confinod, t.horo is rango, there ia tho same 
humor, there is artistry in detail, 
there is humanity.
Many people consider How To Write 
\Sliort Stories the first significant, vol
ume of his stories, tho volume which 
marks definitely the transition from 
reporter to artist. Yet certainly be
fore this volume there had been Al 
who paved the way for others of his 
gallery. Al may have been only a 
stepping stone; certainly he was an 
important one; without Al the now 
memorable and permanent portraits 
qf the Champion and the old couple
New York, N. Y.  So thoroughly j 
convinced 1b Thomas MacLaren, sec
ond Bush research scholar from Great 
Britain to the United States, that 
most scholastic failures in primary 
and high schools may be. avoided by 
specially arranged curricula, that ho 
has come to this country to discover 
what tho American educational sys
tem is doing for the individual stu
dent and hopes to win his Doctor of 
Philosophy degree at Glasgow Uni
versity with the thesis he will prepare 
on the results of his study.
Mr. MacLaren arrived in this coun
try recently tinder tho provisions of 
the scholarship established by Irving 
T. Bush, president of the Bush Ter
minal Company, and awarded by tho 
London Education Course in educa
tion. The scholarship enables a teach-1 
er of Great Britain to pass sOvoral ' 
months in America studying the 
school system. Its first incumbent 
was John Whitley of Oxford Univer
sity, who visited the United States 
last year and made an intensive sur
vey of vocational education.
Backward" Defined.
Mr. MacLaren emphasizes the point 
that when he refers to the "backward 
child ho means the child of. good gen
eral ability who is failing to measure 
up to tho standard in his studies 
which might well be expected of him.
"There can be no doubt that Amer
ican educators have been pioneers in 
coping with preventable backward
ness among students, Mr. MacLaren 
continued. "Most of the books I have 
studied on the subjebt have been' 
written by Americans. Americas 
financial resources for such study are 
far greater than ours.
"My chief interest is in what your 
schools have accomplished practically, 
rather than in the theories they hold. 
My view of tho subject is that practi
cal results aro of. first importance. 
This problem of backward children is 
so common that I wonder UT little has 
been done about it up to the present. 
Intensive Survey.
Mr. MacLaren believes that the 
practice of classifying children by a 
rigid system under which every child 
Is expected to study tho same things 
for the same period does not react to 
the greatest advantage of the child, 
lie believes that an intensive survey 
should bo conducted to determine tho 
needs "Of each individual child and 
that a curriculum should then be 
worked out to awaken its interest and 
co-operation and to strengthen its 
weak points.
"By adapting the curricula to meet 
the varying needs of pupils, a great 
deal of. preventable backwardness can 
bo eliminated, he declared.
Mr. MacLaren referred to the City 
of London Vacation Course, through 
which he obtained the scholarship, 
as an institution which "tends to in
crease international understanding 
and good fellowship.
Contacts With 22 Nations.
Its 10-day lecture courses in Au
gust aro attended by from 500 to 800 
students among which 22 nations 
wore roprosontod last yoar, he said. 
"Tho contacts which aro established 
during tho two-weok poriod must 
broaden and enrich tho students expprionco, and thoy cannot fail to car
ry back t.o their various communities 
and nations something of the outlook 
they have gained."
Mr. MacLarens own exporience in 
acquiring an education was intensely 
practical. Through tho snow and 
rain of rigorous XcoIT,mU,X winters, he 
trudged 11 miles each day to and 
from Ay;r Academy to acquire his 
high school oducation. From' 1905 to 
15)08 he studied at tho University of 
Glasgow, fnpm which he received 
"with special distinction the degree 
of Master of Arts. In 1914 ho re
ceived the degree of Bachelor of Sci
ence from the University of. Londpn. 
In 1919 he was appointed headmaster 
of Mearii8 School, Renfrewshire, a 
post ho still holds.Christian Science.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Last month the League of Nations ; eral, sincere desire for world-amity.- 
attained to its eighth birthday. There ^ere *s no reason to expect that the___i  t , u . league will remain anything but anwas little celebrating to be observed  ~,   oddity and a center of. copy for the-and none ot the flag-waving associatj press of the world when domestic 
ed ordinarily with public occasions. . murders, investigations, and sportThe infant remains an ill-nourished, , news run short. . . . 
abused, and by some of its numerous | is needed above all else is the
I parentage, a neglected, unwanted C^atlon tradltion of statesman| , , ship. Political morale is too often
I V . merely of the high-hat variety of
L lgl p1?!!8*5 were arousecl tlie ^-machination, deception, crude bargain.- fervor of he war that an ancient asing and thick-skinned, nnimaginative 
j p ra ion o le ages n*i^t at last be ; administration of the needs and deachieved, that organized combat besires of the common man. It is marween nations might be forever efj vel0us t0 regarrt the spectacle which 
faced from the earth as a spec.es or re8nlts as son as the man around the 
; barbarity and errant stupidity. Ami corner be;.omes an ambassador,  or
! W li' S?' Part fV* ? congressmen, or even a member of the tha men should he aroused by the I schooI boarll. The feeIing that he E
challenge of a passionate .deal.sm j tb mbol ot the community life.
when all mankind was engulfed m a gives hlm a ponlpousness, a bloatedwelter of mutual slaughter. Aftersense of his own importance whicb ls
uard with the coming of a truce to : fearfuI t0 ob6erve. The statesmen, forexhausted, spent na ions when a re-; cxample, grow beards Qf strlk, com.
.Position or arrangement, or develop
in The Golden Honeymoon could never 
have been. They stand now for all 
that is great in Lardner, the observor, 
cutting, sardonic beyond the readers, 
endurance, superficially gay. For 
there is always the superficial coat
ing of humor, of slang words and 
phrases to amuse the mob. There is, 
too, for the more exabting, superb 
craftsmanship. The Golden Honey
moon stands alone in contemporary 
fiction in its sincerity, its pathos, its 
humanitarian humor. I can think of 
nothing done to equal its power of 
life.
Since How To Write Short Stories 
there have been other volumes, What 
of It? and riow The Love Ne^t: And 
Lardners place in tho sun becomes 
the more secure, the more justified. 
You may criticize the obviousness of 
tho titlo story, for it is obvious, but 
you cant deny its vitality, its drama, 
Tho salo of tho Movlo Magnate, his 
clioap and flashy personality, his gor
geous but fading wife, their complex 
relationship, has moro genuine emo
tional vigor than Fannie Hurst can 
crowd into a dozen novols. It has a 
convincing truth, and a truthful re
straint,.
Haircut seems to mo tho real 
achievement in this' latest volume, 
Tho gossipy barber, dull, kindly, un
folds tho tragedy to tho victim in his 
chair. The tragedy is comedy to him, 
for the characters enacting the drama 
are his friends and he likes them all. 
The good fellow is the good fellow to 
him, where to us he is despicable be
yond words. It is Lardners ability 
to make us feel both attitudes, that of 
the barber, and the all-seeing eye of
Reprinted from Tartan of February 23, 1926.
THISTLEDOWN
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle.
Thistledown can offer his readers 
this week an unparalleled scoop. This
tledown has had an interview with K.
N.
Wlio is K. S. N.? That, unfortun
ately, Thistledown cannot put down 
here. It was the sole condition at
tached to the interview, that Thistle
down, who interviewed her not as 
Thistledown but as himself, should 
not give away her identity. Yes, her 
Identity, for K. S. N. is a woman. The 
color of her hair, the hang of her
gown, the pictures that hang in her
apartment, the kind of piano she 
plays, the brand of tea she serves, all 
these Thistledown can tell you, but 
her name, never. One hint alone This
tledown will give. Her first name, 
her cognomen, is Katherine.
She had asked me to come to tea, 
at four, and since I was impecunious 
I had walked and got there early. I 
rang the bell, however, and the door, 
opened, and there she was. As we en
tered the living room I gazed in ad
miration at her. mauve gown. Slie 
paused by the table and fingered lov
ingly two or three books carelessly 
strewn ovor it. I saw. at a glance that 
they were by George Jean. "My fav
orite author, she remarked to me 
with an understanding smile. "I was 
just cutting the leaves of the new 
Mercury when you came in.
Well, tea was UTT; therp, and sugar, 
and lemon, and cream, and little cook
ies and tiny cakos. "I do so. like 
Nathans aosthotic of reviewing, she 
begin, biting a woo tart. "Feeling Is 
everything, is it. not? Judgment, criti
cal standards, thoy aro nothing, are 
thoy? Indeed the more sensitive souls 
among us would liavo it otherwise. 
Down with all sense conditioned ex
periences, down with phenomena. Let 
us concern ourselves intuitively with 
pure essences!
I coughed twice, and tried to change 
the subject. "That Shakespeare per
formance, she continued, "wasnt that
the autlior-observer who is privileged 
to be' the tfiird person in human 
dramas. The monologue handled by 
the barber in colloquial jargon i3 
doubly effective in carrying with it an 
almost visual portrait of the barber 
himself. Each of the characters, even 
the considerably minor one, is etched 
with such awful clearness against the 
drab, village life of the background 
that the small town seems the epitome 
of tragic comylacency itself.
Hardly a realist, Lardner is as im
portant in handling the idiom and 
idiomatic people as Eugene ONeill, 
Sinclair Lewis, Sherwood Anderson, 
and almost, I higlit say, Ruth Suckow.
a flop?
"The Elizabethan setting was most 
illuminating, I replied dogmatically.
She titivated. "Oh, that, it was 
mud color, cheap gilt, and sickly 
green. One of my friends told me, 
"she went on shyly, that my review 
just made that performance. I be
gan swallowing tea, but I noticed her 
lips moving reminiscently, "O ye im
mortal poet, whose joy it was to see 
Dick Burbage, and fat John Heminge 
and droll Will Kempe play those 
parts, and Tom Pope, and Richard 
Cowley, and Nathaniel Field is Isa
bellas role. O my Shakespeare thou 
are happy in l^eing dead and unknow
ing. You are a man, you are not acute 
about such things, she said turning 
to me. "Such stuff is beneath criti
cism. To criticize it indicates a dis
tressing lack of savoir faire, of je ne 
sais quoi, of critical chic.
"I liked that Shakespeare show, I 
said loudly.
"As I have said, She continued, 
"you are a man. You use your head 
too much; you are stupid about such 
things. Now, take Close Harmony. 
Whoever the presumptuous person is 
who tries to make a funny column out 
of Thistledown, he criticized Miss Copas. How ridiculous! Is she-not one 
person in the drama school born for 
the stage. Her acting was quite all 
right. Anybody knows that.
I murmured something about going. 
She went to the piano and sat down. 
"I am trying to write a musical com
edy libretto myself, but I have so lit
tle time. Picking out a melody, she 
began to hum, "Celt, crit, critical; 
critical, critical; critically critical. .
I am afraid that I made a very dry 
face, for she suddenly stopped. "Oh 
well, I won't go on if you mind it as 
much as all that."
"Remember, she called out as I 
said good-bye, "there are no moi3 
standards. Feeling is all. . One only 
feels and reports. I bowed gallantly, 
nodded my disagreement, took one 
last look at her eyes, and fied.
take long before talk began again of 
the need for security, for adequate 
preparation, for increased armament 
all the outworn, crude madness re
crudesced. . . .
The League of Nations was born of 
the spirited yearning for a lasting 
balm to be applied to the open sores 
and wounds. There were some who 
j expected to make of. this association 
I four-wheel brakes that would more ef! fectively catch the chariot of war be
fore it skidded into the abyss again. 
As usual, however, as memory lengthened and normal conditions returned, 
nations began to feed their urge for 
expansion, for the fulfillment of their 
"destiny, and all the common rot of 
the old-line nationalism. The League 
slowly lost the center of attention and 
degenerated into a debating society 
and pleasant week-end resort for dip
lomats.
What has the league accomplished 
in its short life? It has without 
doubt been the agency by which minor 
sore spots in the pock-marked face of 
Europe have been localized l>y the ap
plication of minor anasthetics in the 
form of speechifying and calming of 
the ruffled spirits of grandiloquent 
rulers. Humanitarian work has been 
stimulated with Geneva as a store
house of arrangements for the care qf 
refugees, moderation of famines and 
the like. . . .
There is no binding force, however, 
upon the depredations and the careless 
suicidal strategy of the old diplomacy. 
The British Empire secretly flouts the 
force of the League as a poor imita
tion of its own power. There are the 
definitely unassimilable elements on 
the one hand, Russia, religiously enj gaged in working out an economic 
scheme such as the world has never
BOOK OF CONDUCT
RESTRICTED GIRLS
Recently there was found in the 
Harvard university archives a book 
of the rules of conduct for "young 
ladies of Mount Holyoke in the year 
1834 which shows that college in 
those days was a serious affair for 
women students.
One regulation forbade Mount Hol
yoke students reading the Atlantic 
Monthly, Shakespeare, Scott, Robinson 
Crusoo and "othor immoral works. A 
socond rule prohibited young women 
from associating with "gentlemen ac
quaintances unless they happened to 
be "returned missionaries or agents 
of benevolent societies. Added to 
those restrictions each woman student 
was expected to walk at least a mile 
every day unless prevented by "a 
freshet, earthquake or other calamity. 
iSome other rules were: "No young 
lady shall become a member of Mount 
Holyoke seminary who cannot kindle 
a fire, wash potatoes, repeat the multi
plication table and at least two-thirds 
of the shorter catechism.Michigan 
Daily.
RECORD PRICES PAID FOR BOOKS
American Art Galleries Hold Sale of 
Rare Letters and Manuscripts
frowns or a forbidding caste of the 
features in the hope that the cartoon
ists may adopt their appearance, as 
the symbol of the nation.
Irrepressible admirals will sound 
the warning cry that the other nations 
are creeping up with newer and cost
lier arms and deadlier gases intent 
upon our extermination, and success
ful politicians will expouse the cause 
of more adequate preparation for the 
imaginary. foe. There will be many 
who will take up the hue and cry of' 
these impressionistic "statesmen, and 
the imaginary, suspected foe is cre
ated of a reality due to this insistenceand inevitable treading upon others 
toes.
Meanwhile the League will sit. Pro
tocols, treaties, finely-worded pleas for 
arbitration will be presented by re
tired statesmen^ or exhausted diplo
mats. For after all, the common 
masses at home are out of earshot of 
kll this. They know only of the 
threatening bombast and the silly paradings of the domestic chiefs, lately 
graduated from the automobile busi
ness or the bank. The hopes to be 
held out for a growth of power and 
influence for the league is closely de
pendent upon the renovation of states
manship, upon the building up of a. 
sincere desire for amity throughout 
the world. This will mean the dis
carding of local agreements such asthe JVIonroe Doctrine and the British; 
Empire, or their projection upon a 
world-scale, the dismantling of econ
omic barriers, such as tariffs and the 
peaceful division and exploitation . of 
the natural resources of the world.
This is a big piece to bite off in the 
present cast of. world-affairs, particu
larly political. But as sure' as there
before seen and studiously prepared | will be another effusion on this page
to sink the frail craft of. the League 
by propagandizing labor and the Ori
ental world. And there is on the
other hand, the United States, sunk in 
a deep slough of material prosperity 
and gross, complacent self-satisfac
tion. Until these various stranger 
forces have been tied down by the gennext week, entitled, "Seriously Speatcing, unless we do begin to be less 
hard-boiled in , our politics^ we shall 
have another regime of hard-boiled 
top-seargants war drives and the con
servation of sugar to say nothing of 
the dead and wounded. . . .
NATHAN MILLER.
YALE EXPEDITION TO EXCAVATE 
ANCIENT CHURCH IN 
PALESTINE
Built in 496 A. D., "at Jerash, Its Re
mains Promise to Throw Light on 
the Art and Architecture of 
Oriental Hellenispi and 
Early Christianity *
New YorkRecord prices were paid 
at a sale of English books, manu
scripts and letters just held at the 
American Art Galleries here.
An unrecorded copy of "Europe: 
A Prophecy, by William Blake, was 
sold to William M. Hill for $11,300. 
This is the highest price ever, paid 
for this item, which becomes one of 
10 known to exist.
of which are numbered in the au
thors hand, was not listed in the ex
tensive Blake bibliographies. Mr. Hill 
paid $1550, another record price, for 
a rare first edition of G. R. Gissings 
"Workers in the Dawn.
Owen D. Young, chairman of the 
board of the General Electric Com
pany, paid a recent figure of $2800 
for an autographed letter by Lord 
Byron to Edward Trelawney, and a 
price of $950 for a presentation copy 
of the "Commemoration Ode by 
James Russell Lowell.
An autographed letter by Robert 
Burns established another record 
price when Charles Sessler paid $7800- 
for a message to Mrs. Dunlop, in Lon
don, containing the long unpublished 
lyric to Chloris (Jane Lorimer).
Mr. Sessler also established a new 
high price for one of the rare Jo
seph Conrad items when he paid 
$2300 for a first issue of the first edi
tion of "Chance.
A copy of the rare first issue of 
the first part of "The Dynasts, by 
Thomas Hardy, was purchased by A. 
J. Scheuer for a record figure of $2350. 
A brief unpublished manuscript by 
William M. Thackeray was obtained 
by Arthur Swann for 51050.
New Haven, Con.  A concession 
from the British Government to exca
vate a portion of the ancient city of 
Jerash, Palestine, has been received 
by Yale University, the excavations 
to be made with the co-operation of
the British .School of Archaeology, of 
which John W. Crowfoot is the direc
tor. The work is to begin in the 
spring, and will be superintended by 
J. Barbee Robertson, a graduate of the 
Yale Divinity School in 1926, who has 
been trained for this work under W.
F. Albright, director of the American 
School of Oriental Research.
The city of Jerash, known to the 
Greeks as Gerasa, is considered the 
most promising site for excavations 
to throw light on the period, A. D. 1-638 
in the development of the art and ar
chitecture of Oriental Hellenism and 
primitive Christianity. Realizing this,
i the Yale committee on archaeological 
The copy, plates x*esearcli in the Near East last year 
authorized Prof. Benjamin W. Bacon 
to obtain, if possible, the concession 
for excavation. Through the negitiations undertaken by professor Bacon 
with Drs. Albright and Crowfoot, a 
concession was obtained to excavate 
the Church of St. Theodore, built in 
496 A. D., the principal Christian mon-- 
ument of Jerash.
Links With Dura Exploration. 
Professor Bacon, in telling the his
tory of the city, and what the Yale ex
pedition hoped to accomplish, said: 
"The excavations at Gerasa will 
form a useful supplement to those 
Yale is undertaking at Dura on the 
Euphrates for the inauguration of 
which Professor Rostovzeff has just 
taken his departure. Dura was a fron
tier post of Hellenistic civilization at 
its point of contact with the East diying the period from Alexander to Con
stantine, but it appears to offer no 
Christian remains.
"Gerasa was the chief city of the 
Decapolis, or chain of Greek cities 
east of the Jordan in New Testament 
times, which had been founded by the 
Ptolomies and Seleucids to protect 
Palestine from the destructive in
roads of Arab nomads. It is men
tioned in the Gospels as the home of
the demoniac healed by Jesus in that 
region, and an outline of its history 
is given by Josephus.
Abandoned in 600 A. D.
"Like other cities, on the outskirts
 of the Roman Empire, it was aban! doned soon after 600 A. D., and since 
I that time has remained practically un
touched. The ruins are therefore 
largely intact, and furnished a spe
cially interesting field because of the 
largenumber of inscriptions, princi
pally Greek, but with a sprinkling of 
Latin, dating from 22 A. D. to the 
sixth century? and because the very 
extensive and ornate architectural re
mains show Graeco-Roman and early 
Christian developments standing side 
by side.
l"In assigning the concession for 
excavating the principal church in 
Gerasa to Yale the British authori
ties have had in mind the systematic 
and continuous excavation of the en
tire city. Naturally, ^the work must 
proceed from the latest strata toward 
the earlier. Underneath the ruins of 
the Christian period lie those of the 
Greek, and possibly still earlier 
Israelite a\id Canaanite remains.
"This seasons work, if done as it 
should be, should prepare the way for 
further restoration of the ancient city 
to the light of day in a succession of 
years of interesting exploration. 
Christian Science Monitor.
Villanova, Pa. (IP)College Hall, 
an ancient and valuable structure at 
Villanova college, was destroyed last 
week with a loss of around a million. 
dollars. Fire which broke out in the 
.science laboratories consumed oil 
paintings valued at $75,000 and re
cently purchased scientific equipment 
valued at $100,000. Thirteen per
sons were injured while fighting the 
flames. Five students were overcome 
by smoke, while attempting to remove 
valuable equipment from the build
ing. For a time the entire college 
campus was threatened by the fire.
Berkeley, Calif.vH?)Bobliy Sel
lers and John Doeg, two of the 
nations leading tennis players, have 
long been junior antagonists. Now 
that both have entered college, their 
rivalry will continue, for Doeg is a 
freshman at Stanford and Sellers a 
yearling at the University oi Califor
nia. The-tennis teams from the fresh
man classes at these institutions will 
soon meet, with these two as oppo
nents.
