BUY JUNIOR PROM 
TICKETS 
AFTER VACATION
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 
HAPPY NEW YEAR
VOL. XVII. NO. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1922
SENIOR ESSAYS 
DISCUSSED BY 
PRES. T. S. BAKER
CHANGED TIME BOOSTS
ATTENDANCE AT CHAPEL
Dr. Baker Comments on Use 
of English By College 
Graduates and Reasons For 
Giving Test
PAPERS READY SOON
Rev. Lester L. Riley of St. Peters 
! Episcopal Church, will be the prln: clpal speaker at the last chapel 
I services to be held before the Christi mas vacation, Thursday noon. Since 
I the appearance of the chapel serv
ices on the campus they have steadj ily improved and each week a 
I larger number of students find their 
way to the Little Theater. The fac! ulty are also supporting the chapel 
I services very well. Special number's 
will be given by a double quartet 
from the Mens Glee Club.
Several speakers have already 
been secured for the chapel services 
after the Christmas vacation and the 
attendance with the ^opening of 
school next month.
PAN-AMERICAN 
HEAD TO SPEAK 
AT ASSEMBLY
THISTLE PHOTOGRAPHER
TO TAKE ALL REMAINING 
PICTURES TODAY AND THURS.
During the first part of this semes
ter, President Baker and the Execu
tive Council of Carnegie Tech decided 
that a test should be made to deter
mine the Seniors use of the English 
language. A plan was agreed upon 
similar to the one used at Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology. The 
head of each Department in the four 
schools chose two subjects for the 
^students to write upon.
Dr. McLeod. was placed in charge 
of correcting the papers. From the 
instructors in the English Department, 
he chose six whom he thought to be 
the most capable and experienced. 
The papers were evenly divided 
among these six men, and each man 
read, graded, and listed the correc
tions on the outside of the paper. The 
men in each pair exchanged their 
papers with each other and so all the 
papers were read the second time and 
corrected in the same manner as be
fore. After this second reading the 
papers will all be returned to Dr. Mc
Leod and from these corrections on 
the papers and those which he will 
find on reading them, a report con
sisting of the comments and correc
tions will be tui*ned over to Dr. Ba
ker and the Executive Board.
The subjects of these essays were 
announced a few days previous to 
the time of writing them. They were 
written in a two-hour period and the 
limit was set at five hundred words. 
The directions were very specific and 
each instructor under whose vision 
the test was given received a mimeo
graph copyIn commenting on the papers, Dr. 
Baker said:
One of the most frequent criti
cisms that is made of college grad
uates is that they are unable to write 
good English, or to express them
selves clearly and intelligently. This 
criticism is a very general one, and 
does not apply particularly to our 
graduates. However, it occurred to 
me that it might be well to find out 
whether we in this institution are giv
ing an adequate amount of instruc
tion in English. With this in mind 
the English Department was asked to 
draw up a plan according to which our 
men and women in the Senior classes 
would submit samples of their writ(Continued on Page Two.)
EGYPTIAN PERIOD 
FOR ARTS BALL
Exhibition Rooms and Halls 
to be Changed Into 
Great Temples
Noted Political Scientist Will 
Talk on The Present In
ternational Situation on the 
American Continent
STUDENTS TO PARADE
Chemists Club Holds 
Initiation Meeting
Score of Neophytes 
Over Hot Sands
Pass
The Carnegie Chemists Club held 
its first initiation meeting of the year, 
Thursday evening, December 7, at the 
clubrooms in the Science Building. 
Over a score of new men in the Chem
istry and Chemical Engineering De
partments of the Engineering College 
were initiated.
The program called for a treatise 
by each candidate upon some ultra 
modern commercial development. The 
learned professors of the Chemistry 
Department who were present were 
astounded at the profusion of scien
tific knowledge exhibited in these dis
cussions. The processes which were 
(Continued on Page Three)
Music Dept. Entertains 
Public School Students
Two thousand pupils of the local 
public schools were the guests of the 
music department of Carnegie Tech 
last Friday afternoon at a rehearsal 
concert of the Symphony Orchestra. 
The response to invitations was so 
great that a second rehearsal concert 
was held on Monday for another audi
ence of school students. Both con
certs were given in Carnegie Music 
Hall at 4 P. M.
On Sunday evening, the Symphony 
Orchestra made its formal appearance 
before the Pittsburgh public in Car
negie Music Hall in the first of a se
ries of free concerts. The expenses 
for the concert Sunday were sub
scribed by a group of local residents, 
and if sufficient contributions for fu
ture presentations are received, the 
series will be extended throughout the 
year, according to E. R. Bossange, Di
rector of the College of Fine Arts.
The orchestra consisting of about 
ninety members includes'selected stu
dents, alumni, and faculty. Professor 
J. Vick OBrien, head of tlijg Music 
Department, is conductor. y 
The program rendered at the re
hearsal concerts and on Sunday night 
was as follows:
PreludeChorale and Fugue.k........
......................................... Bach-Abort
'Symphony No. 40 in G. minor. Mozart 
Allegro molto 
Andante 
Allegretto
(Continued on Page Twio.) .
Every Arts student is looking for
ward to February 9, the day of tho 
Arts Ball. At the assembly last 
Wednesday Chairman Landefeld an
nounced that the committee meeting 
on the previous Monday resulted in 
the choice of tue Egyptian period 
for the Arts Ball. The choice offers 
excellent opportunities along all 
lines.
The Arts Building is very adaptable 
to the Egyptian decorations. The 
exhibition rooms and halls can easily 
be changed into great temples. What 
an impression will be created as one 
enters the building and suddenly 
finds himself in a vast desert with 
huge mystic sphinxes keeping guard 
over all! Imagine yourself in the 
middle of a great Temple of Ivarnak, 
surrounded by massive rows of 
gloomy columns!
The costumes will not be restricted 
to the Egyptian styles. They may 
represent the styles of Babylon, Lybia, Persia or any of the closely 
related countries. Books have been 
laid out in the Arts Library, contain
ing innumerable good suggestions for 
costumes. The Costume Committee 
urges all who expect to attend, to 
begin working on their costumes im
mediately and not put it off until 
too late.
All the committees are busily on 
gaged in carrying out their end of 
(Continued on l^age Two.)
Party and Dance Held 
By Cosmopolitan Club
The party and dance held by the 
Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan Club last 
Friday evening, December 8, at the 
Margaret  Morrison Recreation Hall, 
proved very successful, judging from 
the many favorable comments re
ceived by the committee.
One of the features of the even
ing was the program given between 
dances. First, a delightful piano 
solo was given by Miss Martha Dognereau. The next number was a 
pleasant surprise. Six girls, mem
bers of the Serbian Singing Society 
of Pittsburgh, gave one of their 
songs in Serbian. Few understood 
the words but all agreed that the 
quality of the voices \vas something 
unusual. The girls, encored with 
Whispering Hope. Last Dummy" 
Szold worked the crowd to a frenzy 
of laughter with his interpretations 
of Dailey's Marcaroni Ballads.
Much credit goes to the Skibo 
Quintet which kept everyone on their 
toesdancing. Of couse the dainty 
refreshments left a good taste in 
every ones mouth as a finishing 
touch of the pleasant evening.
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP IS
AWARDED TO BLACKBURN
William M. Blackburn, an instruc
tor in English at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, has just been notified 
of his appointment to a Rhodes schol
arship from South Carolina. Mr. 
Blackburn was one of eighteen candi
dates from his state, and is one of the 
32 appointments from this country.
He attended Furman College, in 
Greenville, S. C., receiving his B. A. 
degree in 1921 and last year he at
tended the graduate school at Yale 
University to take up work leading to 
a Ph.D. degree. Mr. Blackburn was 
appointed to the faculty of the Divi
sion of General Studies at Carnegie 
Tech beginning in September of this 
year. Mr. Blackburn will complete 
his year as instructor here and will 
begin his work at Oxford, England, in 
October, 1923
SOPH. ENGINEERS TO MARCH 
WITH BANNER TO MUSIC HALL
At a meeting of the Science Soph
omore class last Wednesday, a financial 
report of the three-school Soph
omore banquet was read by the sec
retary. A profit of one hundred 
dollars was made on the affair, fifty 
per cent of which went to the Sci
ence Sophomore class treasury. The 
remainder was divided between th 
Arts and Industries classes.
The one hundred and seventy-five 
attractive menu covers were the gift 
of Bohnett & Company of Cincinnati.
Later, a motion was carried, to the 
effect that the Sophomore Engineers 
herafter would march under their 
own banner to the Music Hall on 
general assembly days.
Dr. L. S. Rowe, Director Gnrai of 
the Pan-American Union at Washing
ton, D. C., who is to address the 
students of Carnegie Tech today, is 
perhaps one of the best informed 
government officials regarding polit
ical affairs on the American Conti
nent. He has represented the United 
States Government on commissions 
to the Central and South American 
countries for so many years that 
when the office of Director General 
of the Pan-American Union occurred, 
Dr. Rowe was the logical choice.
In Dr. Rowe, Dr. T. !S. Baker, Act
ing President of Carnegie Tech, has 
secured an authority whose opinions 
regarding Pan-American affairs are 
wirely sought. He is in a. position 
to at least clarify the uncertainty 
that shrouds the attitude this country 
holds towards the nations south. Tho 
subject of his address to the Carnegie 
students is: "The Present Interna*
tional Situation on the American 
Continent.
Dr. Rowe is a native Iowan, but 
obtained his education in Pennsyl
vania, being a graduate of I he Uni 
versity of Pennsylvania in 1890. in 
lS92 he received the degree of Ph.
D. from the University ot Ralle, and 
the degree of LL.D. has been con
ferred by the National University of 
La Plata, in Argentine; University 
of San Marces, in Peru; and tho 
University of Chile.
For several years ho was a momiber of the faculty at the University 
ofr Pennsylvania, leaving in 1904 as 
Head Professor of Political Science. 
For more than fifteen years, Dr. 
Rowe served on numerous commis
sions and delegations from this coun(Continued on Page Two)
There are many students requiring 
i individual Thistle pictures who negj lected to have them taken when tho 
i photographer was here. This is esj pecially true in fraternities and ac
tivities. So the Thistle Board is
i bringing the photographer back on
! Wednesday and Thursday of this 
! week at which time the individual 
I pictures for day students will be
| taken.
| It will also bo necessary for those 
| who have had their pictures taken 
and have tho - proofs to bring back 
the one of their choice before the 
Christmas holidays, for a great deal 
of work must be done in checking 
up.
All group pictures that have not 
been taken up to date also will be 
taken on tho above two days.
Watch the bulletin boards for no
tices,
NEW SYMPHONY 
ORCHESTRA IS 
BEING FORMED
Pittsburgers Help to Promote 
Orchestra Similar to Boston 
Symphony Orchestra. Mu
sic Students to Have Part
O'BRIEN CONDUCTOR
RECOGNIZED CLUBS 
LISTED BY COUNCIL
At a recent meeting of the Stu
dent Council, the annual question of 
recognized student clubs and organ
izations was taken up, and the fol
lowing organizations were recognized 
for the coming school year:
General Organizations"C Club,
Citmas Club, Cosmopolitan Club, De
bating Association, Girls Athletic 
Association, Girls Glee Club, Non 
Degroe Association, Rifle Cluf), The 
Stringers, Tho Technon Club,, Y. W.
C. A., Y. M. C. A., Disabled American 
Veterans of the World War, The 
Radio Club, Sine Nomine.
Sectional ClubsMid-Western As
sociation, Scalp and Blado.
Professional Fraternities  Alpha 
Kappa Epsilon, Scarab, Theta Tau.
Junior Branches of National Organ 
IzationsAmerican Society of Civil 
Engineers, American Association of 
Engineers, American Institute of 
Electrical Engineers, Society of In
dustrial Engineers.
Honorary FraternitiesTau Beta 
Pi, Alpha Tau, Tau Sigma Delta, 
Dragon, Delta Skull, Druids, Sphinx, 
Alpha Alpha Nu.
Departmental Clubs  Science 
Commrecial Club, Metallurgical and 
Mining Society, Coal Miners Club, 
Chemists Club, American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers.
Departmental ClubsIndustries 
The Graphica.
Departmental ClubsMargaret Mor
risonHousehold Economics Club, 
Secretarial Club, Science Club, 
Costume Economics Club, Social 
Workers Club, Margaret Morrison 
Guild.
Among other things, the recogni(Continued on Page Four.)
PROF. TRINKS TO LECTURE 
N CLEVELAND TONIGHT
Professor Willibald Trinks, head of 
the Department of Mechanical Engi
neering at Carnegie Tech will lecture 
this evening, December 13. before the 
Industrial Association of Cleveland on 
Rolling MillsTheir Theory and 
Practice." Professor Trinks will il
lustrate his talk with two sets of 
films.
The Industrial Association of Cleve
land is an organization of employers 
and employes of the city.
CHRISTMAS PARTY AT M. M. C.
About two hundred and fifty chil
dren from Pittsburgh settlement dis
tricts were the guests Saturday after
noon at an annual Christmas party 
given by the Social Work Department 
of Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege. The scene Of the festival was in 
the Recitation Hall of the College.
A Christmas tree laden with gifts 
for the children was the feature of 
the party. Miss Estelle M. Bonnell, 
instructor in Social Work, was in 
charge, assisted by nine Junior class 
women in the department who are the 
organizers and leaders of the clubs 
of children.
NEW HONORS COME 
TO DRAMA DEPT.
Carnegies Little Theater to 
be Member of New 
National Circle
The Department or Drama is to 
have a place in the new National 
Theater movement.
The new movement is this: Ta
lented amateur and professional act
ors are to be banded together in 
companies for the purpose of pro
ducing in different parts of the coun
try, the best plays of the year. Each 
company will be under the direction 
of a central authority, so that all 
productions of the same play will 
be alike and accurate. Hence one 
may go to a play presented by the 
National Theater in any city with 
the assurance that the play, is being 
presented as effectively as possible.
This invitation to join the move
ment certainly speaks well for Car
negie Tech, and the members of the 
Dramatic Department are to be high
ly complimented.
MINING DEPARTMENT
TAKES INSPECTION TRIP
On last FrW\y afternoon, the Sen
ior Mining Engineers and tho two 
year coal miners visited the Mlno 
Safety Appliance Company at East 
Liberty. Before going through the 
plant, Mr. Ryan, a representative of 
this company, gave a very Interesting 
talk on Mine iS'afety. Due to the largo 
number ofgaseous coal minos in this 
district, tho talk was very applicable 
and slnco mine safety is one of tho 
most important subjects under Min
ing Engineering, it was beneficial to 
tho students. Tho Inspection contin
ued throughout the plant and the stu
dents were given an opportunely to 
soe various safety appliances being 
manufactured. This company makos 
a largo variety of safety appllancos 
such as gas masks, safety lamps, car
bon monoxide detectors, first aid 
oqulpmbnt and othor 'equipment used 
In mine rescue work.
Tartans Will be Shown 
in Action on Silver Screen
If you want to soe a real moving 
picture show, full of action and pop 
all the time, keep your eyes open 
for announcements and read the 
newspapers every day. The dope is 
this. Carnegie Techs 1922 football 
team has been filmed in action at 
every one of its games except the 
one with the Yale Bulldog. If the 
machine had not broken down, the 
New Haven combat would have been 
pictured also. These pictures have 
been titled, and cut down to three 
reels, or about three-quarters of an 
hour of solid action.
It is planned to show these films 
at a theater in Oakland or East Lib
erty within the next few days. A 
definite date has not been made, due 
to additional unavoidable delays in 
collecting the films. The committee 
in charge will probably have . to 
guarantee that a large number of 
tickets for the show will be sold. It 
is up to everyone to support this 
venture and. to buy his ticket and as 
many more as he can. The value of 
the pictues in advertising Carnegie 
Tech is enormous, as approximately
350,000 people will see them during 
the three days they are shown in 
Pittsburgh.
The fact that Pathe News has 
bought a large part of the scenes 
from the Notre Dame .game, and was 
showing them in Pittsburgh theaters 
last week, Is enough to convince 
every one of the value of the films. 
Several hundred thousand people 
viewed the Pathe News reels of last 
week In the theaters of tho nation, 
and more will see them at their 
home town theaters this week. An 
.dverlisemont of this sort means a 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
VETERANS WILL HOLD A
SMOKER TOMORROW NlQHT
The D. A. V. of W. W., the World 
War Veterans Club, is to hold a 
smoker tomorrow night at eight 
oclock. This will be a get-together 
meeting for ail members and men 
eligible for membership to the club.
A meeting was held last Thursday 
noon In which plans were discussed 
for the smoker.
Carnegie Techs Symphony Orches
tra of ninety pieces was In tho limeI light of musical circles Sunday night 
when it gave the first of a series of 
free public concerts in Carnegie Mu
sic Hall.
Last Friday afternoon two thou
sand public school students tilled the 
hall at a rehearsal concert when the 
same program was offered. In order 
to at least partially fill the demands 
from the public school students, a sec
ond rehearsal concert was givon Mon
day afternoon in the Music Hall at 4 
oclock.
Sunday nights debut Is the culmin
ation of the efforts of the Music De
partment to obtain outside financial 
assistance to support a serio sof con
certs free to the public. A demonstra
tion offering given late In the spring 
awoke the people of Pittsburgh to the 
fact that rare music talent had beon 
developing hero too close to them to 
be noticed. Enthusiasm over the pos
sibility that Pittsburgh might produco 
her own symphony as well as Phila
delphia or Boston found expression in 
dollars and cents when E. R. Bos
sange, diroctor of tho Flno Arts Col
lege, appealod for public subscrip
tions. And now, with the first of a 
possible sorlos of sovoral othors 
scheduled, tho city will be given a 
formal opportunity to judge tho mer
its of their own symphony.
Generous financial support has boon 
given to tho Idoa by tho following: 
Mrs. W. K. Shims, Mrs. Qoorgo P. 
Bassett, Jr., Mrs. Lawrence Litch
field, Mrs. William Rood Thompson, 
Emil Winter, Roy Hunt, W. W. Black
burn, J. II. Rood, Mrs. Natluiniol 
Spear, F. F. Nicola, Mrs. W. Harry 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
YE GOODE OLDE YULETIDE
APPROACHETH ONCE AGAIN
This year Carnegie students will re
move their nose from tho collegiate 
grindstone on December seventeenth 
and not until January second will tho 
wheel be turned again.
Most of them are planning to got 
home for tho holidays by any or all 
of the modern means of travel, i.o., 
aeroplane, train, automobile, ankleexpress or klddle-kar. Roller skates 
for some unknown reason seem 0 
have lost out this season.
However it is entirely possiblo 
that some will be compelled to re 
sort to Ice skates in order to got 
a free Xmas dinner 011 Dad.
PROM PRELIM. 
TICKET SALE 
OPENS JAN. 3
Only Two Hundred and Fifty 
Couples Will be Admitted. 
Eligibility Standard is Three 
Years in School
CARNEGIE INVITED 
TO DEBATE MEETING
Colleges Enter Pentangular 
Agreement For 
Debate
SCARAB TO INITIATE 
NEW MEMBERS TODAY
The Scarab, a national profession
al aroiiitecural fraternity established 
at Carnoglo Tech In 1918, will Ini
tiate today tho men oloctod. for mem
bership hist Tuesday. Theso men- 
John Todd, M. D. Smith, A. I). Rlod, 
J. B. Blair, Win. Harris, Los Cou
sins, John Fritz, B. G. Martin, W. 
A. Sihlth and I). D. McGorvoy 
woro oloctod for tho unusual Interest 
they took In rewarding their pro
fession.
Tho Scarab was founded In Illinois 
and now has chapters in tho load
ing architectural schools throughout 
tho country.
UNDERGRADUATES! TALK
KILTS TO HOME CLAN
This is just a reminder to all tho 
undergraduates who expect to go 
homo for the Christmas holidays. 
Look up tho Carnogie Clan In your 
town. There is a list of Clans on 
the last page of this Issue. Look It 
ovor, and If you see that there Is ono 
in your town or within a radius of 
fifty miles of it, make it your duty 
to get acquainted with Jts members.
Plan to attend Its next social func
tion, and make up your mind that 
you are going to have a good time, 
for you will not come away disap
pointed.
While you are there, do everything 
in your power to arouse the interest 
of the clan in the Kilt Fund Campaign. 
Tell them that they have not sup
ported it as they should, and that if 
they did their part they would raise 
the remaining $1,000 necessary in 
short order. Given as a Christmas 
pyesen*, it: would be a wonderful exam
ple of the real Carnegie Tech Spirit.
The Carnegie Debating Association 
sent Mr. W. J. Reilly, president, to 
attend a meeting composed of repre
sentatives of Geneva, Grove City 
Westminister, Thiel, and Carnogie 
Tech in order to make arrangements 
for a Pentangular Debate. This meet
ing took place last Monday at Geneva 
College, Beaver Falls, and thus 
cleared the fields for lntor action.
Discussion of suitable questions for 
an Intercollegiate dobato took up tho 
majority of tho time, other quostion 
ot discussion bearing upon the date' 
of these dobatos and upon tho men 
that should be invited to judge them.
Tho fact that we woro Invited to 
participate in this Pentangular Dobato 
indicates tho esteem with which wo 
are hold by othor colleges. Carnoglo 
has made a romarkablo showing In 
intorcolloglato debating slnco Its In
ception hero, Illustrating quite defi
nitely that onglnoors are ay capablo 
In tho use of forceful arguments as 
are tho studonts of institutions whore 
particular attention Is paid to this 
subject. To maintain this satisfac
tory record, tho Debating Association 
tills year 1s bonding every effort to 
develop successful tea mu that will 
represent us 011 tjio debuting platform.
So far this your, rogulnr weekly 
mootings a\*o being hold for the pur
pose of discussion and criticism. At 
tho last, regular mooting, Thursday, 
Dooombor 7, tho following membors 
('Continued on Pago Throe.)
City Y Gives Membership 
Privileges Over Holidays
PLANS COMPLETE FOR 
NIGHT SCHOOL BANQUET
Plans have been completed for the 
annual banquet given by the Engi
neers of the Night School, and the 
committee in charge of the affair 
promises a delightful evening to 
every member of the class.
The banquet will be held in Hotel 
Chatham, Saturday, December 16, at 
8:00 p, m. Tickets at ?2.25 per 
plate, are now on sale every oven-| 
ing In the club room. Every mem
ber who has paid class dues for the 
year is entitled to a twenty-five cent 
rebate.
WESTI'NGHOUSE 8PEAKER
TALKS AT S. I. E. MEETING
Plans for tho Christmas dinner, 
glvon by the Carnoglo Tech Y to all 
Gi mogio students who avo In Pltts> 
burgh on Christmas, liavo boon com
pleted. All students who plan to be 
hero and desire to attend this dinner 
are requested to hand their names to 
Mr. Davis, so that reservations may 
be mndo. Tho dinner will bo sorved 
at the Oakland Methodist Church. It 
will bo sorvod at six oclock. This 
early hour was sot so that the whole 
of tho evonlug would bo free for othor 
activities.
TI10 Y. M. C. A. will also give froo 
club tickets to all studonts remaining 
In Pittsburgh over tho holidays. Those 
club tickets will givo full membership 
privileges In tho Contrai and East 
Liberty Y. M. C. As.
Entertainment for some studonts In 
private homes has also beon provided.
Tho Y. M. C. A. under the direction 
of Mr. Davis is anxious that no Car
negie student should be lonesome or 
homesick on Christmas Day. If you 
are planning on spending your holi
days In Pittsburgh and will have no 
place to go, get In touch with Mr. 
Davis and Insure for yourself an en
joyable Christmas evening.
BUY TICKETS EARLY
Preliminary tickets for the Junior 
Prom, will be placed in the hands 
of the section leaders of the Junior 
and Senior classes of the threo 
men's schools on Wednesday. Jan
uary 3. The price will be throe dol
lars and fifty cents toward the final 
ticket.
The management of the Hotel 
Schenley has limited the number to 
two hundred and fifty couples. In 
order that this numbor will not bo 
exceeded, the sale of preliminary 
tickets will be closed as soon as two 
hundred and fifty have been pur
chased by the student body. Every 
eligible student who intends to go 
to tho Prom, is urged to get bis 
ticket immediately. No money will 
be accepted at the door.
The arrangements for the Prom, 
aro almost completed. The favors 
are still under consideration, but 
they will undoubtedly bo different 
from those of any previous yoar. 
Tho program design will also bo 
novel and artistic. Announcement, as 
to tho orchestra will bo made when 
tho tlckots aro placod 011 salo.
All Juniors, Seniors and Alumni 
aro ollgiblo to attend tho Prom. Any 
student who has boon In collogo 
throe yoars whether at Carnoglo or 
some othor recognized college, Is 
also ollgiblo.
Horo Is tho information 011 tho 
tlckots. Preliminary tlckots will cost 
throe dollars. Tho final tlokot. will cost 
eight dollars. .All Juniors who have 
paid their class duos will bo allow
ed $1.50 011 tho coot of tho final 
ticket. An an Illustration, If a Jun
ior has paid Ills class dues and pur
chased a preliminary tlokot, his final 
tlokot will cost him $8.50. Juniors 
must present tholr receipt for Ihe'lr 
class dims when the final ticket Is 
purhaaod In order to receive this 
credit.
Seniors, Alumni and Social Jun
iors who do not pay class dues will 
pay tho regular price of eight dol
lars.
The suoposfl of tho Prom; Is largo* 
ly dependent upon tho salo of (ho 
preliminary tickets, for II gives an 
Indication as lo how many of I ho 
student body aro going, and In addi
tion aids tho com mitt. 00 I11 making 
arrangements for the favors and din
ners,
Alpha Tau Elections 
Held Last Wednesday
Industries Honorary Society 
Pledg'es Eleven Men
At the last Industries Assembly 
Wednesday, December 6, the local 
honorary fraternity, Alpha Tau, hold 
their annual olectlons. Tho follow
ing wore pledged: Seniors, D. II.
Cookson, W. A. Anderson, E. C.
I-Iaupt and Cornelius; Juniors. Clydes 
Treon, F. M. Gare, A. Reese, R. B
Keller, G. V. Fpster, Sowers and GL. Comfort.
Tho Alpha Tau honorary fratern
ity was established at Carnegie Tech 
in 1916. Members are chosen on a 
basis of premiar leadership, scholar
ship, character and Interest in activ
ities.
kducators Criticize Discrepancies
Prevalent in Teachers Marks 1
Last evening Mr. McClelland from 
Westinghouse, addressed tho Carne
gie branch of tho Society of Indus
trial Engineers. The Social Com
mittee with Frank Gore In chargo, 
furnished several interesting fea
tures.
Many prospective members of the 
society were present. Sophomores 
taking any branch of the Machinery 
Productive Course are eligible to 
join. P. A. Herreran is in charge 
of the Membership Committse.
The following is an article taken 
from the Journal of Educational Re
search of October, 1922, pp. 275 ff.
Do Teachers Marks Measure 
Anything?
A surprising commentary on the 
unreliability of teachers ratings Is af
forded by an experience which an 
Ohio County Superintendent has re
cently reported.
In conjioctldn with his quarterly 
examinations Superintendent Vance 
duplicated two of bis pupils papers 
and sent them with copies of the ques
tions to 92 teachers. One paper was 
In fourth grade geography and the 
other In eighth grade arithmetic. The 
geography paper must have boon a 
curious ono, but even so, It could 011 
110 possible grounds Justify the dis
agreement as to Its value among tho 
92 teachers. One of them .rated It 
74 while threo of the teachers agreed 
In rating It aero. Sovoral teachers 
thought tho pupil should have sixty 
or more, whilo with the same data 011 
hand, othor teachors thought tho pa
per worth nothing at all or such 
marks as 20, 13, 16, otc. Four teach
ers agreed in rating tho unfortunate 
one 20 for his performance In geog
raphy while just as many thought the 
showing worth 50. Several teachers 
not content with expressing themBelves with the accuracy implied by 
a percentage scale thought themselves 
able to make more accurate determl------- 11nations: such ratings as 43%., 48% i( 
and 13 2/3 appear.
The eighth grade arithmetic papc ] 
despite the supposed objectivity o "\J'r 
arithmeticfared even worse than tin ( 
geography paper. /The pupil wht 1 
wrote the paper rated all the way 
from 10 to 100 per cent, nor were 1 
these extrome ratings isolated fron 
the Intermediate ones,
No fewer than Geven of tho teach 
ers expressed by ratings of 100 pe 
cent their belief that the paper wat 
a perfect performance. O11 the other 
hand two teachors agreed that It was 
worth only ton, If 75 per cent woro 
regarded as a passing grade, tho pu
pil would have been passed by 47 and \ 
failed by 45 of tho teachers. In othor J
words the pupil stood practically  
oven chance of passing or falling de
pending. upon the teacher who rated 
his paper.
"Such a situation Is either ludi
crous or pathetic, according to ones '
temperament or point of view. * * 1
Comment on "Do Teachers Marks 
Measure Anything?" J. Ed. Research, 
October. J922, pp. 275 IV.
Dr. Bingham of the Research De
partment, commented upon the article 
as follows:
"Although recent studies of grades 
have emphatically directed our atten
tion to the wide variation and the ab
sence of standards in the assignment 
(Continued On Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1922
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postofllco of Pittsburgh, an second-class matter.
VICTOR II. STROMQUIST ............................................................. Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.H. D. SONNEMANN.................................................................... Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211EDW. A. BRAND............................................................................ Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 91-13
KENNETH ARNOLD...................................................................Associate EditorH. IF. SIMPSON.............................................................................. Associate Editor;
TelephoneSchenley 9079H. F. DIETER ......................................................................................... News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
H. J. MAUST ...................................................................................  . Nov/s Editor
TelephoneHazel 9422
H. H. WILSON.......................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 9350
H. P. HA Y ............................................................................................. Photographer
It. J3. KELLER ...............................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR.............................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. RIOIMLIER ................................................................................ Special WriterJ. K. MATTER....................................................:................. Special Writer
PLEBES! BOOST CARNEGIE
WHILE HOME THIS XMAS
J. M. COOPER........................................................................ Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 8211
J. C. MAJOR ............................................................................ Circulation Manager
TolophoneSchenley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hortzmun, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning,- F. T. Phelps, Catherine Meyers.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
II. J. McCormick, J. A. Borno, E. C. Frazier, .T. II. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schuckor, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudlg, D. Moskovltz, J. W. Motro, P. W. Reilly, It. 11. Young and II. Gibson.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho malto up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communicationB of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withhold If desired. All nows items must be in tho Btudent 
poBlolIlco before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Olllco hoursTuesday,
LAST CHAPEL TOMORROW
Tomorrow is the last chapel service before the holidays and it 
is hoped that there "will be a good turn out. The faculty seem to take 
I; more interest than, the students, and it would look better for the 
student body if they would attend more frequently.
A CARNEGIE COMMONS
Next Saturday the Christmas vaca
tion v/iil start and all who can will 
go home for over the holidays. This 
will be the first time that many of 
tho Frelnnen have been home, since 
ontcring Carnegie Tech. Freshman, 
what are you going to say about the 
college? Are you going to boost Car
negie or do you intend to discourage 
others from coming here? If you have 
intentions of doing tho latter, do you 
consider yourself a real Carnegie 
man? If you do not boost the col
lege and those connected with it, you 
have failed to become Inspired with 
tho real Carnegie Tech Spirit, and by 
so doing you am not an asset to the 
school.
Fellow-students, we hope that you 
belong to tho Booster's class and 
that you are not in the class of those 
indifferent or one of those who has 
failed to realize the ideals and tra
ditions which this school stands for. 
Carnegie has a very high standard of 
scholarship and on account of this, 
some have boon forced to leave. But 
it is due to this high standard, that 
the faculty and officers of the school 
have been, able to give this school 
bucIi a high rating among the other 
schools of the country. So If you have 
anything good to say about the school 
say it, but if not say nothing.
Just hesitate a moment and con
sider how much you can harm -the 
school by saying things, which do not 
tend to boost it. By saying such 
things, you will discourage your 
friends from coming to this institu
tion. Lets all go home with a happy 
attitude towards the school and help 
boost its reputation by standing firmly 
behind the college as a whole, the foot
ball team, the other athletics, the kil
tie band and all the other organiza
tions connected with the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology.
There lias been discussion about a Commons on the campus 
in the park, now there is an opportunity to start an institution of 
this kind at the school cafeteria. Some day we may have a fine 
building dedicated to this purpose, a place where the students can 
find a. place to eat, rest, and find recreation. By supporting the 
school cafeteria which is now under school management the scheme 
of a fine  Commons may be possible at some future date. The 
present place is to be made more attractive and better food will be 
provided if the students will lend their patronage.
AN EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY
, It is amusing to notice how few students attend, the programs 
given by themusic and drama departments. It is hard to under
stand why students do not take advantage of the opportunity oJ! at
tending tho shows and concerts at the College of Fine Arts, because 
they are ol! a great educational value. The public clamor for tickets 
and tlic.ro is always somo who can not gain admission. It is perhaps 
human nature for people to overlook things that happen near at hand 
or is easily gotten ; however, students hero at school must not pass 
up the chance that they have to acquire an appreciation ol! fine arts 
while in college, for it is u part of a thoroughly educated person.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, DECBMBBlt 13
fJonoral iSlnclont Assombl;v......................... II ID, Ciirnogio Hiiflio Hull
Drnmn Kiln Oovunlry"....................................8:1.5, Arts Theufor
THURSDAY, DBO.ISMMSB, H
< Jhiipol........................................................................................12150, Arts .........................................tor
Dviiiiin liilu Coventry1' .................................. H:1G, Art: Thofttor
Itimil Pi'notidi'....................................................................7:()(), Citi'iuigio Union
Kill DAY, OBCMMMiUt 15
Dniinn "Kiln Covonli'y".....................................8:15, Arts Tlioalioi'
SA.TI IIMA Y, DUCBMJJIOB Hi
('hi'iHlmu VnotiUon.
BUYJNIORP IMTCKUCC ESA 
FVHDWLD. Hull Ofli'in'Kio XV. Dupnmv ... Gl'oon Oiwtlo, [nil.
FRIDAY, DUCKMItUR 2!)
linulu'l, HullCV1311G,V1 X9. Duller...................................Imllttnifirolis, Ind.
SATURDAY, DBOIOMHIfllt 30
Bisltol HullCumegio XV. Michigan Aggimt..................... Ijnuning, Mich
TUUSDA Y, JANUARY 102.!
School Opens.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY :i
Basket. BallCarnegie vs. Mlrlclleburv....................................... Hero
FRIDAY, JANUARY 5
DanceSealp and Blade...............................................9 :00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, JANUARY C
DunceChcm Chili (Tonlutivc)................................!):0(), Carnegie Union
NATURDAY, JANUARY 13
DanceMusical Clubs...................................................!):()(), Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, JANUARY 21)
DanceCarnegie Tecli Dormitories (Tentative), 9:00 Carnegie Union
Carnegie Commons to 
be Opened After Xmas
New Name to Replace Popular Name for Cafeteria
With the opening of school after 
the Chrlstmus vacation, the Beanery 
will cease to be the student name 
for the campus cafeteriainstead, the 
term Carnegie Commons will bo used. 
This change Is made to be in accord 
with customs of the recognized 
schools/of tlie country.
The word Commons signifies some
thing more than an ordinary eating 
place, which cannot be said of tho 
word cafeteria; ana assuredly it is 
much more dignified than the old word 
Beanory. Webster donnes Com
mons" as a company eating at a com
mon table, as in college; provisions 
in common, rations, fare. In other 
words it Is a place whore a group of 
mou got together for tho purposo of 
passing a few hours of ploasantrlos 
ovor tlielr meals. Tho natural out
growth of such a place Is a bottor 
school spirit, In that it olTors a gath
ering place at a time when all should 
bo In a pleasant frame of mind, A 
placo whero cheering is dono, sing
ing Indulged In, and rallies boforo big 
games are hold, Usually such places 
In colleges are controlled and run by 
l.lio students, who appoint tliolr stew
ards, pay tliolr money for throe meals 
a clay, by tho month, to a common 
treasurer who In turn ponds tho 
amount he receives for food. The 
place operates upon a no-prollt basis.
It is expected that ultimately the Carnoglo Commons will grow Into just 
such an organization, but at present 
tho school In undertaking the opera
tion for tho students. Miss Smith 
will be supervisor, while Mrs. AVoodward, recently of Boston, Mass., will 
be In direct charge. It is the purposo 
of these two to offer the best typo of 
food obtainable, well prepared, and in 
quantitiesas large as'possible and 
still be In accord with the student 
pocketboolc.
Quite a credit to the editorsthe 
new dressed up Shilling.
A Maggie Murphy on the staff of 
the Shilling received the following let
ter from her pap on the farm:
Cherry Hill, December 10. 
Dear Dotter:
"We got ur letter u sent and also 
tliet thair Shilling u Bent by spesul 
dlllvery last mondy. U no my eyes is 
bad so rnuther red the contents to me. 
after i fed the stock that nite. line 
happy that u are on the staff cause I 
no you will beniflt by It and 2L i offer 
my sugestions. Ur muther red sumthlng about an artical on Intolerance 
which 1 strongly recomendT Girls 
should absolutely not luch liquor un
der no curcumstances. And dotter I 
aint just so shure about thet their 
slum district proposition. At any rate 
i hope you aint on the comittee to In
vestigate the matter. Seeins as ur 
rnuther and i could not find the meanIn of aesthetic in the dictionary so we 
aloud the hole idear is alrite so we 
leave It to ur judgment. However, if 
u go to that their carnival it speaks 
about dont ferget to cum home erly 
and don't upset ur stumlck on the 
sweet stuff. In regards to the story 
011 rot iron and brasses either of us 
could not make much out of it, but 
muther says that was becuz we didnt 
have the proper education. The next 
time u want any poetry to publish ile 
send that thair copy of evangeline we 
have in the bookcase That ought to 
appeal to ur readers. Muther wants 
me to ask what kind of a gurl that 
was what painted that picture on 
page thirteen. She says fer u {o keep 
away frum lier cause she once knew 
a person what made kqeer pictures 
and they liad to put her in a asilum. 
However muther wants u to find out 
if its supposed to be a pitcher of a 
catlieadral or a iceberg. We didnt 
read the neadles frum the pine tree 
cause thair was to many hard words 
to pronounce so i won't recomend on 
It. Sum of the jokes in tlie back 
of the book we couldnt quite figur 
out but i allows they are alrite. I 
saw several adds frum banks in the 
magazine also. If you save up any 
money to put in the bank dont ferget 
to go to tlie one that gives the most 
interst. I dont see ur name on the 
staff but perhaps that wus a misprint. 
I allow i have said enough fer this 
time so will cloze and fead the chick
ens and put out the cat and hit the 
bay.
"Ur; loving father and mother.
Dean Mott Addresses 
Engineering Plebes
Urges Careful Consideration 
in Choosing Course
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
One of our Carnegie Tech students 
ih the printing department told us a 
good one the other day. Upon being 
asked by several friends What course 
he was taking, he replied Printing. 
Dean Mott addressed the Plebes of How foolish, they said,  you could 
the College of Engineering iaBt learn that in any print shop, and* not 
Wednesday on "Choice of Course. wa8t a11 the Ume and mney you are 
The reason for the givjng of this talk I nowto the Plebes so early in the season There are printers, and again, there 
is that past experience has proved j are some more printers. Some are 
that a man needs more than a week only technically so, while still others 
or two to make up his mind definiteare printers in the true sense of the
From the very bottom of his heart 
Roamer wishes all a very Merry 
Christmas and a New Year that will 
bring forth nothing but good will and 
prosperity.
ROAMER.
Colloquium Hears Report 
of Meeting in Chicago
PAN-AMERICAN HEAD TO
SPEAK AT ASSEMBLY
EDUCATOR CRITICIZES
DISCREPANCIES PREVALENT
IN TEACHERS MARKS
(Continued from Pago One) 
of values to the work of students, the 
cases cited above are so extreme as 
to soem preposterous. And yet Pro
fessor Starch found almost as wide 
extremes at the University of Wiscon
sin. He points out that considering 
marks from a scientific standpoint as 
a measuring scale, three fundamental 
questions arise: First, how fine a
scale of units may be used satisfac
torily; second, how reliable are the 
ratings made' on the^ particular scale 
adopted; third, how should tho marks 
be distributed.
If we are attempting to evaluate a 
paper by tho scale of 100*99, 08-07, 0(5, 
etc., we are attempting to make finer 
distinctions than we are capable of. 
Tho mind' does not discriminate with 
any degree of certainty between a 
paper of grade 85 and another of grade 
SO. Tho situation la analogous to es
timating the width of a room In In
ches when it should bo estimated In 
foot. Estimates in terms of the larger 
units of course do not have greater 
absolute accuracy, but they will have 
greater uniformity. The units of any 
scale of measurement, if a single 
measurement with the scale is to have 
objective validity, should bo of such 
a size that tliree-fourths of all the 
measurements of the same quantity 
shall fall within the limits of one di
vision of the scale.
Marks on the whole and for large 
groups of students of usual ability 
should be distributed with a reason
ably close conformity to the normal 
hell-shaped probability curve. It is 
certain that on the whole, marks will
be assigned much more justly if they 
are assigned, with reasonably close 
conformity to this probable distribu
tion than if no heed is given to it, and 
every teacher follows his own judg
ment. Large deviations should occur 
only when definite reasons exist. In 
the University of Wisconsin, a graph 
was made which illustrates the con
formity of distribution of five thou
sand grades to the probability curve.
The adoption of a uniform scale of 
grades as well as a uniform standard 
in the frequency with which different 
grades should be assigned, is a press
ing need, which some institutions, in
cluding Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy! are mooting in part through use 
of the present, grading system, which 
is not ideal, but is long step in tho 
right, dircotilqn.
SENIOR ESSAYS DISCUSSED
BY PRES. T. S. BAKER
(Continued from Page One) 
lug, it Is not intended that tho re
sults of this Informal test shall have 
any hourtng on tho graduation of this 
year's candidates. It was the thought 
that wo might bo able to soouro in
formation which would be valuable in 
considering changes that might be 
made in our curriculum, or in our en
trance requirements. The examina
tion of the papers is now nearly com
plete, and it is tlie feeling of tho 
membors of the department that im
portant results have been obtained. I 
appreciate very much the spirit of co
operation with which the student body 
has carried out tlie plan, and the in
terest that many have shown in otir 
desire to encourage good writing.
(Continued from Page One) 
try to Panama, Mexico and South 
America studying various problems 
in scientific, financial and political 
relations. In 1917 he was appointed 
Assistant Secretary of the .United 
States Treasury, resigning later to 
accept the director generalship of 
the Pan-American Union, which occu
pies one of the most beautiful and 
interesting buildings in the capitol.
He is the author of The United 
States and Porto Rico, and Prob
lems of City Government, and many 
reports, monographs and articles in 
economic journals and reviews.
The entire student body will form 
a parado lino in front of Central 
Building at, 11:20, and march from 
there to the Music Hall. The band 
will load the way, followed by tho 
Margaret Morrison girls, who will 
line up according to class, Seniors 
first, then Juniors, Sophomoros and 
Froshnion. Tho College of Fine 
Arts will bo next In line, followed 
by the student! from Engineering and 
Industries Schools, The PI ob os will 
bring up the rear of tho parado.
Tho band will occupy seats on tho
On Friday, December 8, Prof. H 
,S. Hower made an interesting re
port on the meeting of the Amer
ican Physical Society at. Chicago on 
December 2. Among the papers referrod to by Professor Hower was 
ono entitled "A Quantum Theory -of 
the Scattering of X-rays by Light 
Elomonts," by Arthur iH. Compton 
Of Washington University and for
merly of the. Woatinghouse Research 
Laboratory. A paper on The Ther
mionic -Work Function of Oxide 
coated Platinum, was given by C. 
Davisson and L. H. Qerrnor. Dr. 
Davisson was formerly in tho Phys
ics Department of this Institution. A 
rosonrch on "The Luminous Elec
trical Discharge ln> Sodium Vapor 
by Cl. M. ,T. McKay and 13. 13, Charl
ton of tho GenQral Electric Company, 
was remarkable for the high lumin
ous efficiency obtained. The rate of 
electrical energy required for the 
production of ono candle power was 
only/about a fortieth of that used in 
tho case of many oloctric lamps in 
common use.
On Friday afternoon, December 
15, Mr. Hymen Diamond will give an 
account of various methods of meas
uring mercury vapor pressure at va
rious temperatures. This subject is 
of importance in connection with the 
use of mercury vacuum gauges, All 
interested are invited to attend the 
meeting which will be opened at 
4:30 p. in., in 113 Science.
ly, and by bringing this matter to the 
immediate attention of the men, op
portunity is afforded by the Christ
mas vacation to talk it over with 
friends and relatives. Dean Mott's 
talk was to the point and contained 
several highlights that may be of 
value to those who already have made 
their choice of course. For this 
reason a brief summary of Dean 
Motts talk follows:
'A man who has come to Carnegie 
has already made his biggest choice 
relative to his future career. The 
step thus taken, in general, deter
mines the future of a man, but in or
der that such a step shall not be irre
trievable, the first year is given up 
to rather general studies, which open 
to the prospective technical man an 
opportunity to learn what each sort 
of engineering really means. If a man 
then determines that he does not wish 
to become an engineer, lie should by 
all means withdraw from the College 
of Engineering, for one cannot be 
happy and successful in disagreeable 
work. Do not take all the advice that 
comes your way. Listen to it, by all 
means, listen to all that you can, but 
then decide for yourself. This also 
applies to the choice of a course 
within the college. If you desire to 
take a specific course do not let others 
scare you with bear stories. Investi
gate and learn for yourself.
One of the saddest facts in the 
world of education is that in spite of 
wealth of experience, educators 
have not yet learned to size up a man 
and tell him what specific sort of work 
lie is well fitted for.
Before a man makes up his mind 
about the work that lie wishes to take 
up he should acquaint himself with 
the various lines open to him. It is 
of prime importance that each man 
choose the course for which lie is best 
fitted, yet it makes no final difference 
if lie but gets the most he can from 
the course that lie does take. This 
seeming contradiction is backed up 
by the facts shown in the Technical 
Journal of recent issue,' showing that 
the percentage of graduates engaging 
In the different kinds of work is es
sentially the same for all coupes. Op
portunities abound in every field. 
The idea that pull is necessary in 
engineering is antiquated and may 
best be met with a shrug of the shoul
ders. There is room at the top in 
all fields and this is especially true 
in the field of pure science, where we 
have but begun to scratch the surface 
of knowledge.
Engineering is based on facts. It 
is not guesswork. A poor doctor may 
bury his mistakes; a poor engineer is 
buried by his. Yet, Carnegie does 
not wish to send out mere machines, 
however accurate in their workings 
they may be. Carnegie does^iot wish
Word. Printing can be made an art, 
They are doing that in the printing 
department of Carnegie Tech.
"Produce for the sake of the thing 
produced is a good motto for the 
printing department as well as for 
any other line of profession. . If we 
are negligent, the finished product 
will be deficient. Whatever one finds 
to do, do that with your whole heart.
The printing department is tech
nical to be sure, but nevertheless, 
technique is fundamental wherever 
art' is the. object. Many men stop 
upon mastering the technique, but 
others go beyond for the sake of the 
thing produced. These latter are the 
type of men Carnegie Tech is sending 
out into the world.
Harry Gage, one-time head of the 
department of printing had his ideas 
on quality and art. Teaching could 
not materialize these ideas, therefore 
he left the school. He has been gone 
but three years, but in that time his 
ability has been recognized. He is 
now Assistant Vice President of the 
Bartlett-Orr Company, one of the 
best publishing companies in the
PROCEEDS FOR SCHOLARSHIP
The proceeds of the Womens 
Athletic Association benefit dance 
will be used for scholarship to be 
awarded shortly. The dance was 
extremely successful due to the sup
port ol the students and the 
operation of the entertainers and the 
Printing Department.
rfUSIC DEPT. ENTERTAINS
PUBLIC SCHOOL STUDENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
Allegro assai 
Lyric Suite .....................................Grieg
(a) Shepherd Boy
(b) Norwegian Rustic March
(c) Nocturne
(d) March of the Dwarfs
Overture to Rienzi...............Wagner
United States. His ideas, left behind 
him -with the instructors of the Car
negie Tech Printing Department have 
done much towards the making of 
fine printers and business men.
Carnegie Tech is a young school,, 
and therefore most of her alumni are 
still very young also. But even so, 
her graduates are known throughout 
the country for the efficiency of their 
training.
The Eddie Press Company of Pitts
burgh seems to cater to Carnegie men. 
C. J. Dahl, Superintendent, and Ells
worth Giest, Art Director and Adver
tising Manager are both graduates 
from the printing department.
William Duncan Green is with his 
own company as are also Victor 
Young, Harold Bergwall, A. J. Baird, 
Fred Curtiss, and George H. Ellis.
The William Duncan Green Com
pany of New York City, are the pub
lishers of Outlook, and Judge.
Ralph Tyrrel is efficiency manager 
of the United Typotheta of America.
F. T. Denmon is advertising expert 
of the Mergenthaler Linotype Com
pany of New York City.
Yours for a better known Car
negie Tech.
to send out men unable to think in 
terms, other than those of Mechanics, 
Physics, or Chemistry. Such men are 
not good Carnegie men, they are not 
good citizens.
After the lecture, cards and pamph
lets were distributed among the men 
and announcement made that the 
cards must be filled out and in the 
office of the Director of the College 
of Engineering before May 1, 1023. 
Any man with questions to ask may 
call at the offices of the Director or 
of the Heads of Departments at any 
tinie before that date and questions 
will .be answered in detail, because 
Carnegie wants to turn out irten fitted 
for the work they seek and not square 
pegs for round holes.
Start the j 
Week Right f
X
Church on Sunday | 
puts new pep into Monday, Tuesday, Wednes:j" 
daytill Sunday comes  
again. Try it and see. J
Oakland Methodist | 
Church |
FORBES AND | 
BOQUET |
Fifty steps from the 
campus
|j Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .......................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................. 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00 P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
TARTANS WILL BE SHOWN
IN ACTION ON SILVER SCREEN
(Continued From Page One) 
great deal to the future welfare of 
Carnegie Tech.
Any one who desires to have these 
films shown in his home town can 
secure them for release by making 
arrangements with the theater man
agement, and with the Athletic Man
ager. It is urged that every one 
talk it up while home for Christmas, 
and try to secure a showing of the 
movies in his home town. It will 
boost Carnegie Tech still higher.
EGYPTIAN PERIOD
FOR ARTS BALL
(Continued from Page One) 
the work, and soon tho interior of 
t.lio Arts Building will bo a veritable 
Egyptian kingdom.
Ono important change will take 
place in this years ball. The Ball 
Committee asked through the Stu
dent Senate that the student body 
take up the matter of alumni attondstngc, and will play a few selections | ance. The committee recommended 
during the course of assembly. The that only those alumni who wore
Tartan Entertainers, a distinctly Car 
liegle Tech Orchestra will be on hand 
to give the students a. thrill with 
their new and classical interprention 
of dance music.
The general assemblies, from to
day on, will be shorter than many 
of the previous have been. The pro
grams have been reduced, so that
paid-up members of tho Alumni As
sociation, be allowed to attend. The 
student body wore hoartlly ia favor 
of the suggestion. This will do 
much to make this years ball a biggor success than in the past because 
it will cut down the number of un
interested peoplo who always attend, 
but do not help' to make the ball the
they may be short, snappy and full success it should be.
of pep. Several fine speakers have| Lets all get behind the Ball Combeen secured to deliver addresses att mittee, put our shoulder to the wheel
our future assemblies, and all of! and push hard to make this ball
them are well worth hearing. j twice as good as belore.
sX
Eclipse of the sun
T
HIS is the nionth when the sun is outshone, and 
we mortals draw greater warmth and sustenance 
from that homely provendermince pie.
It is the warmth of the holiday spirit, which causes 
human hearts to glow when temperatures are lowest. 
Mothers cookingthe famil)r unitedChristmas 
trees and crackling logswhat would this world be 
without them?
In promoting the family good cheer the college 
mans part is such that modesty often blinds him to it.
It .would hardly occur to the glee club man to sing 
over the songs of Alma Mater for the still Dearer 
One at home.
The football man would scarcely suspect that his 
younger brother is djring to have him drop-kick for 
the fellers.
The Prom leader would not presume to think that 
among those sisters who have been waiting to share 
his agility at fox-trot may be his own sister.
xVrid in general, college men would scorn to believe 
that any conversational prowess they might possess on 
books, professors or campus activities could possibly 
interest a certain Gentleman Who Foots the Bills, 
But just try it, all of you. The welcome you get 
will warm the cockles of your heart.
This suggestion, amid sighs as they look back 
across the years, is tlie best way a bunch of old grads 
here know of wishing you Merry Christinas.
Since 1S69 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 24 of a series/

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. DECEMBER 13, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Girls Basket Ball Team 
Organized For Season
Swarthmore May be on 
Schedule
MANAGER HAAREN RESTS 
TO RECOVER STRENGTHOn the Plaid Screen
Under the able tutelage of Miss 
Bowman, last years coach, the candi
dates for the Girls varsity basket 
ball team have held two practice 
periods to date. After the Christ
mas holidays, regular practice ses
sions at least three afternoons a 
week will be held, in order to get 
the team in proper playing condition 
for the schedule of six gamesthe 
maximum number of games the 
faculty will permit.
A large number of girls liave an
swered the first calls, and give prom
ise of a fairly good team. Many of 
the stars of last year's team will be 
missing this year, as Isabelle Win
ner and Helen Reed, two of the stars 
have graduated. Miss Bowman will 
have however, around whom to build 
a team, the following girls who were 
members of the team and squad last 
year. Rae Fine, Eleanor Cra'ver, 
Ruth Snyder, Bessie Bulmer and 
Margaret Markey.
The schedule so far calls for two 
games with Westminster, February 
9, there, and February 14, here. A 
game with Swarthmore is being ar
ranged for March 2. Negotiations 
are on with Thiel, and others in or
der to fill out a schedule of six 
games,
Aside from basket ball, swimming 
and - bowling are finding lots of time 
with the girls. Arrangements are be
ing made for a suitable bowling al
ley. The Schenley High School
It is with regret that we announce 
that Frank Haaren, Graduate Man
ager of Athletics, will be' confined! 
to his home for several weeks. Mr. 
Haaren, due largely, to his efforts j 
in behalf of the athletic advance-j 
ment of his Alma Mater, has found 
it necessary to take a complete rest, 
mentally and physically.
According to Mr. Haaren, his
physician has advised him to keep 
off his feet as much as possible. At 
the same time, he protests that his 
ailment is nothing of a serious na
ture, and he hopes to be back on 
the job within a few weeks.
Manager Haaren will not leave 
the city and will keep in touch, if 
necessary, with the affairs of his of
fice. It is hoped that the rest will
restore to him good health and
physical strength. He will have with
him the best wishes of the student 
body for a speedy recovery.
By H. H. WILSON
Officers Elected at First 
Meeting of Rifle Club
THE NEW COACH
Since Bob Waddell has been recalled to his old Alma Mater. Bucknell. 
to take up work of an athletic nature, a new floor mentor has taken up the 
coaching reins of the Plaid cage squad. This new addition to our coaching 
staff goes by.the name of Lubic and from his past record it is likely that he 
will turn out a first-class team. From the few workouts we have seen, the 
indications are that everyone on the squad is to get a fair chance but that 
,ep,ch one will have to conclusively prove his worth to get a berth on the 
team. Basket ball at Carnegie Tech hasnt been more than mediocre for a 
'number of years and we hope that with a new coaching system that the 
standard will be brought up to a higher level. The team is taking a trip 
toward the west during the holidays, tackling Depauw. Butler and Michigan 
Aggies. Were hoping to write up at least two victories.
Ben Lubic New Coach EGYPT IAN ROGD DODFOS track SQUAD WILL 
Of Basket Ball Team BL CLhCe mi sPTROGD tOR OGSl TRGSR
Charles S. Garland, known in tennis Ex-Pitt Star Developing'Team  circles us "Chuok" Garland, is well
known to all enthusiasts of the sportfr Stiff Schedulethroughout, this country and abroad 
Garland, who succeeds Colonel 
Brooks as coach at Carnegie Tech, 
was born at Edgewood in Pittsburgh, 
where he still resides. Charles GnrThe Tartan cage squad has been 
having long workouts during the past 
week and a good team is certain toi land,, his father, who died recently, 
bo 'developed. Several! Cootbull men| was a ytiff 6 pl$>r and prominent 
have not yot reported. These men 
include Anderson, Newman, Lamb
Nationul Guard Armory 
be Used for Training 
Quarters
BUY YOUR
Xmas Gifts
at
Davies & Hughes
They Are
Sure to Please
WE SPECIALIZE
in
QUALITY 
MERCHANDISE 
CORRECTLY 
PRICED 
THE YEAR 
ROUND
Oakland Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next to Strand Theater.
The Carnegie Tech Rifle Club held 
its first meeting of the year last 
Wednesday a week and it was well 
attended by old as well as new mem
bers.
As a result of the election held after 
the old business discussion, the fol
lowing men wrere elected to the re
spective offices for this year: C. N.
Harwood, president; K. B. Foster^ 
vice president; C. A. Vana, secretary; 
O. J. Swanson, treasurer, and Darnall, 
eecutive officer. C. A. Vana was 
elected manager of the rifle team for 
the coming season.
Among the interesting topics dis
cussed at the meeting was that of 
having rifle shooting a recognized col
lege activity this year, and all efforts 
will be made to have it so recognized 
inasmuch as it plays an important 
role in the activities of the largest 
colleges.
The enrollment of the new members 
was satisfactory as to number. The 
membership may possibly be limited 
because of the limited capacity of the 
range. At present there are still 
plenty of membership openings, but 
those wishing to join the club should 
attend to it as soon as possible.
THE AERIAL ATTACK
A certain writer of sporting articles has taken it upon himself to ridicule 
the forward pass as a successful means of offensive attack. He cites a , 
number of instances where more ground was lost by,the overhead style of j 
play than was gained. We can hardly agree with him in regard to the use of 
the forward pass when we recall some games we have seen. Of course he 
agrees that it is all right in the case of a desperate attempt to win as our 
game with W. & J. brought out. On the other hand, we saw some very 
Jsuccessful passes, one for forty yards, up at State and neither team was 
necessarily desperate. Notre Dame used one to score one of their touch
downs against us, as did also Pitt against State. Coaches are teaching this 
open style of play more and more and a great many teams are becoming 
adept at it. Why try to bring the forward pass into disrepute when it has 
spelled victory for a number of teams and from the spectators point of 
view lends more spectacular interest to the game?
OUR GRIDIRON RATING
In some recent point ranking statistics by I. B. Thomas in Intercollegiate 
Athletics, Carnegie was placed in the third ten along with Chicago, Gettys
burg, West Virginia, North Carolina. Georgetown, Georgia Tech, Pennsylva
nia, Drake and Pitt. It is doubtful if this system of ranking is worth much, 
for last year the Plaid was up in the second ten and there isnt that much 
difference between last years team and this year's. Trving to find a succussful way of ranking football teams is about like trying to discover perpetual motion. It cant be done.
In picking an All-Pennsylvania team, A Fan decided that Cy Comfort 
should hold down one of the tackle positions while Jimmie Robertson ran 
the team at quarterback. Pie also placed A1 Irwin at center and Don Potter at end on the second team.
swimming pool will be available on 
regular nights once a week after 
Christmas. Life-saving lessons will 
be given by Helen MaCrumand Gertrue Lyons.
. Swimming and basket ball aside 
from the varsity will work towards 
inter-cla&s competitions. ( Early in 
the spring will be held a swimming 
meet, while throughout the basket 
ball season, the teams representing 
the various clashes in the Margaret 
Mori;ison division, including the 
Physical Education groups, and one 
team selected from the entire Col
lege of Fine Arts will compete in a 
regular schedule for the champion
ship.
Cut Flowers and Blooming Plants Make
Welcome Christmas Gifts
SPECIAL BOXES$2.50, $5.00, $7.50, $10.00 
PLANTS$1.50 TO $15.00
0 10 Smith Co0
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVE. PENN AT STANWIX ST.
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivery anywhere in United States or Canada.
Franks Restaurant
4527 FORBES STREET
Under New ManagementFormer Tecli Man. 
Cleanest and Best Home Cookinj 
DELICIOUS PASTRIES 
Luther G. Dauth, Proprietor.
THE MAROON PROSPECTS
The Daily Maroon of the University of Chicago sends us some done on 
what their 1323 team will look like. With their backfleld practically Intact 
and Johnny Thomas still at the fullback position the Tartans are goinir to 
have some time stopping them. They lose three veterans in the line but 
they can easily fill these places. Leave it to Stagg.
Inter-Fraternity Basket 
Ball Schedule Out Soon
The first meeting of the Inter-Fra
ternity Basket Ball League was held 
Tuesday afternoon, December 5, in 
the Y. M. C. A. club rooms, President 
H. PI. Wilson presiding. Practically 
all the fraternities and dormitories 
were represented at the meeting,-and 
indications point-to a very successful 
season. The interest and enthusiasm 
of those in charge of the league pre
sages some spirited and hard-fought 
battles. The material for basket bull 
was never better than it is this year, 
and every team in the league is ex
pected to trot out several star per
formers when the curtain rises.
At the meeting Tuesday Cy Com
fort, popular football hero, was elect
ed secretary-treasurer. A committee 
composed of Powrie, Walters and 
Eisenliart was appointed to draft the 
schedule for the 1922-23 season, and 
at present they are engaged at that 
task. The schedule will be an
nounced soon; the first, game doubt
less to be played immediately after 
the Christmas holidays.
In order to prevent a recurrence of 
several misunderstandings regarding 
the eligibility of players two new 
rules were inserted into the consti
tution of the league. They were: 
"Men who are on the Varsity or 
Freshman squads at the time of the 
first scheduled game of the league, or 
later become members of either 
squad, are ineligible to participate in 
league games; and Men'who once 
become members of Varsity or Fresh
man squads,1 even if they later are 
dropped, are ineligible for league 
games for the remainder of the sea
son. Members of the Varsity or 
Freshman squads will be determined
FRATERNITY BASKET BALL 
RULES OF 22-23 SEASON
Constitution of Basket Ball League 
follows:
This organization shall be known 
as the Inter-Fraternity Dormitory 
Basket Ball Leaguethe officers shall 
consist of the president and the sec
retary-treasurer and shall be elected 
by the membora of the league the 
Thursday following the close of the 
basket ball season.
A majority of the votes cast shall 
be required to elect the officers.
(A)Duties of the President.
(1) He shall preside over all meet1 
lngs.
(2) He shall call a meeting the 
first Tuesday in December to formu
late plans for the season.
(3) I-Ie shall appoint a committee 
of three men to be known as the 
schedule coniniltjtoe.
(B)Duties of the SecretaryT reasurer.
(1) Collect $10.00. from each team 
known as entrance fee-and said 
fee to he placed in trust with the 
Graduate Manager of Carnogio Tech,
C2) Publish in the Tartan tho re
sults of the games played tho pre
vious week and the schedule of tho 
following week,
(3) Keep a permanent record of 
the scoles.
(4) Notify eacli team of tho an
nual meeting for the electiorl ol.' ofl'icers.
(5) Take minutes of all meetings 
and lcoep these in a permanent file,
(C)Duties of the Committee.
(1) The committee shall draft the 
schedule,
(a) The members of each leaguo 
will be drawn by lot,
(2) The committee shall pass on 
the eligibility of players.
(3) Arrange a championship series 
of three games. .
General Rules,
(1) Every team represented in the
I authority in tennis.
Chuck received his early practice 
and training at the Edgewood Counand Moran. They have hau previous trv club near his home. It may be 
experience and will add great said that the development he acquirstrength to the Tartan squad. As ed at this club while still wearing 
yet only a few new men are showing knickers gave him the steadiness in 
much ability but Coach Lubic is giv-l playing which he now possesses, 
itig every man an opportunity to 
make the team.
The Tartan cagers this year are 
being developed by Coach Ben Lubic, 
formerly a University of Pittsburgh 
forward. Coach Lubics home is in 
Braddock, where he played with 
the I-Ilgh School team of that place.
He was a star player in High School.
After completing his High School 
education he went to the University 
of Pittsburgh where ho again showed 
his basket ball ability. I-Ie played 
during his. entire four years in col
lege which were from 1913 to 1917 
inclusive.  In 1917 lie was elected 
captain of the team and was pro
claimed the star player for his col
lege.
After graduating Conch Lubic was 
selected coach of tho Duquesne 
High School cagers, where he de
veloped a winning team for the two 
years that he remained there. After 
leaving Duquesne, Lubic went to 
Westingliouse High where he again 
developed a winning team. He re
mained there for two years and now 
is coaching the fast Tartan squad.
It is probable that Carnegie Tech 
will have the best cago team of its 
history this year.' Coach Lubic is go
ing at it in a business like manner 
and teaching the men many things 
which help to develop a strong 
team. Scholastic standing seems to 
bo the only drawback that Coach 
Lubic must guard against. Many or 
his best players are football men, 
and as much of their time was taken 
up during the football season they 
now must return to their Scholastic 
duties. A winning team is expected.
CARNEGIE INVITED
TO DEBATE MEETING
(Continued from Pago One) 
discussed tho question, Resolved that 
the passage of t,ho,Fordnoy-MoCumbor 
Tariff Bill was wise; W. J. Roilly, 
J. M. Goff. W. F. Fonkuf, and II. II. 
Smith. Criticisms wore offorod by 
Mr. Konnody and Mr. I-Iuus, both ofc 
whom are mom hors of the Faculty 
Committee seloctod to critlciso and 
coach tho Doballng Association. Tho 
other two mom bora of this comm II,too 
aro Mi*. II. K. Kirlc Patrick and Mr. 
Swanson. The co-operation of tlieae 
membors of tho faculty will do much 
to develop a successful team.
Next Thursday,-at 8:00 p. m., In 
the Y Club Room, a similar mooting 
will bo hold, the samo question to be 
discussed, but no definite speakers to 
bo selected. Full attendance at tilla 
meeting is urged. Any eligible man, 
as defined previously, Is again Invited 
to participate in those meetings. All 
mombors of tho various teams will bo 
picked from tho membership of the 
association, quality being tho only ele
ment entering tho decision of those 
delegated to make such a Judgmont. 
There is a chance for you!
by lists secured from me two coaches I Inter-Fraternity Dormitory. T---- _* O-l /V nr
Talk It Over At Home
m
m
2
m
m
m
m
A Christmas Vacation Suggestion To Seniors
T
HIS is your last year in college. This is your 
last Christmas vacation.
Your career after graduation is a question 
that you will want to talk over with the folks 
at home. They will be even more interested than 
you are. Now is the time to do it.
The John Hancock has in its field organization 
producers who began as life insurance men immedi
ately after graduation and have made a conspicuous 
success of it.
Wh^ waste time trying out something else which 
looks just as good and then come into the life 
insurance work to compete with the man who got 
into the game fijom the start?
Talk it over at home and remember that you can 
get information and helpful advice by addressing
Agency Department
Er1ak InsuranceCompanyv
or Boston. Massachusetts
H
m
m
m
mB

Fu
m
m
mm
uBB
m
HB
m
| by the secretary-treasurer of the 
league.
The Iota Sigma Delta, Kappa Sigma 
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon teams won 
the championships in their respective 
leagues last year, Iota Sigma Delta 
finally Winning out in the elimination 
series, consequently gaining posses
sion of the first leg of the trophy. If 
this team wins this season, it will 
gain permanent possession of the 
cup. Five of tti$ men of last year are 
back, and they' stand an excellent 
chance to repeat; but stronger opposi
tion will be faced this year, and it will 
not be surprising to see them toppled 
over.
CHEMISTS CLUB HOLDS
INITIATION MEETING
Special Rules.
(1) A game may be postponed by 
mutual agreement providing this 
agreement is handed in to tho com
mittee and passed on favorably.'
(a) This means that the game 
Basket j must be played within one week of 
Ball League shall post $10.00, payable the scheduled date, 
to the secretary-treasurer as an enj (2) Failure to play the 'game witlitrance fee, and will forfeit this fee on , in the one week limit shall constitute
a forfeiture.
(3) All disputes shall be settled at 
a general meeting at which a quorum
to
Track prospects are bright for the 
current season, with championship 
probabilities looining ahead. The 
Athletic Association has made ar
rangements for the use of the new 
Seventy-fifth Regiment Armory in 
East Liberty. This armory is a spa
cious structure with a special tanbark flooring, and indoor running 
track.
The Plaid runners will be able to 
train and practice throughout tho win
ter, for adequate locker space and 
equipment has been provided.
But tho use of this indoor track as 
a varsity training camp is only one 
of tho ways in which it will be of 
service to Carnegie Tecli. Inter-fratemity competition on the track, 
heretofore, has been little encouraged 
at Carnegie. With the facilities now 
available, there is no reason why the 
sports popular with the ancient 
Greeks should not be fostered among 
tho modern Greeks.
It is not thought that the armory 
track will be used for Intercollegiate 
meets; its chief utility, as has been 
stated, will be for purposes of train
ing and for inter-fraternity meets.
Coach Paul Beeler will be in charge 
of the track squad. Beeler has demon
strated his coaching ability as mentor 
of tho varsity cross-country and reservo football teams. And with tho 
advantage of winter training quarters, 
lie should be able to develop some 
championship talent.
COACH CHARLES S. GARLAND
While very young ho onterod tour
nament after tournament and in most 
casos he came out victorious. Ho 
provod his ability as a winning ama
teur by taking the National Boy Cham 
plonshlp, tho National 'Junior Champloushlp and lator l.lio intercollegiate 
Championship.
In 1918, 1919 Garland was rated as 
eighth host player in the country and 
lu 1920, while rated eighth ho was 
clioaon as one of tho four on tho Da
vis cup team from America. Other 
mombors of tho toain woro William 
V. Tlldon, second: Richard N. Wil
liams, aocond, and William M. Johns
ton. By defeating the French toam 
at Enst.hourne, and then the team 
from the British Isles at Wimbledon, 
Driglund, the American team took the 
honors, Garland and Williams won 
tho crown at Wimbledon and with It 
wont tho worlds championship lu dou
bles'.
At various times Chuck him been 
on tho winning sldo of tho net whllo 
playing with Sam Hardy as bln team
mate. During the summer of 1011) 
Garland and Brooks played off a very 
closely contostod match on the courts 
at ForresL Hills.
For the last year or so Chuck has 
been Interested In the advancement 
and popularization of tennis lu tills 
district, and for the last two succes
sive years he has helped to capture 
the title of champion doubles for 
Western Pennsylvania. C. B, Bui'gwln, a I*. A, A. man, was ills partner 
In thoso matches, which woro played 
In Pittsburgh.
While Chuck la living at, his homo 
and doing everything possible to pro
mote tennis in general, ho has con
sented to give his time and energy to 
coaching tho team at Carnogio Tech 
for the 1923 season and probably for 
future teams. Though ho has had
limited experience in coaching, tho 
candidatos who expect to bo out for 
the team are, to a man, confident that 
their now coach will produce a cham
pionship team.
eomH, FoLntV11ko9
Fifth Avenue Boot S3ioj> 
near -lUth Street, Now York 
Style oboes of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
Elootrlo Toaster Stoves 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4021 FORBES STREET 
Norn* Craig Street.
Phono Sohonloy '1045.
Auto Accessories. 
Electrical and Radio Supplloo.
PLEASANT VOYAGE
Travelers find that our 
steamship service assure 
In groat measure freedom 
from Inconvenience 
whloh often times ombnr* 
moo thoso who may ba 
unfamiliar with foreign 
conditions, money ex
change and credits.
Mellon National BankOliver & Smithfield
(Continued From Page One.) 
expounded in these talks bid fair to 
revolutionize many industries. These 
included the problem of how to make 
stick candy from sawdust, the manu
facture of photographic plates from 
dollar bills and seaweed, the transmu
tation of clothes pins incobaking
powder, the manufacture of lipstick I be allowed to play in the Inter-Frafrom tin cans, the development of a ternily Dormitory games, 
species of striped ink suitable for (a) A professional player Is defindotted lines, and the evolution of | ed as one who plays professional,
failure to play two or more scheduled 
games.
(a) Teams playing the scheduled 
number of games or having only one j is present.
forfeiture listed against them shall (a) A quorum shall consist of
receive at the close of the season j representatives of two-thirds of the 
their $10.00 entrance fee minus such | organizations represented in tho 
an amount which shall be pro-rata to > league.
take care of expenses incurred by the (4) All insurance men are ineligiofficers or the committee in performble to play.
ing their duties. j (5) One player cannot represent
(b) Teams having two or more | more than one team,
non-appearances or forfeitures listed (6) Failure to Appear in uniform
against them forfeit their entrance ready to play within ten minutes after
fee and this fee shall be placed in I the scheduled time shall constitute a
trust to take care of running expenses, forfeiture.
buying trophies, etc. I (7) Games shall bo played under
(2) The entrance fee must be the following regulations:
posted with the secretary-treasurer (a-) There shall be four seven and
before Christmas vacation. one-half minute quarters, with an in(3 Men must be registered day terval of one minute between the first 
students of C. I. T. and second quarter, and one minute
(4) Only active and pledge membetween the third and fourth quarter,
hers of the various organizations are ! with an interval of ten minutes In
eligible to play. | tween halves.
(5) Professional players will not
hard coal into tooth paste.
In addition, each candidate was 
quizzed concerning his knowledge of 
the science of chemistry, the identi
fication of various concoctions by 
their odor, and the identity of tho 
most famous chemist of the day.
The Carnegie Chemists Club, after 
a lapse of several years, was reor
ganized last year into a. live organiza
tion, Practically all of the students 
in the Chemistry and Chemical Engi
neering Departments are now mem
bers of this club which is rapidly be
coming an important cog in the life 
of those students of the Engineering 
College who are specializing in sci
entific or commercial chemistry.
semi-professional 
for money.
or amateur gamoi
i Students desiring to select attrac
tive Christmas Greeting Cards, with or 
without name imprinted, Gift Novelties, Pencils and guaranteed safety 
j Fountain Pens, should go to Singer 
j Pen and Gift 8hop In Jenkins Arcade. 
 Advertisement.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE*I*
i
The Pii/j nulldiiiKi New York Cily 
CAIUUZUJ & HASTINGS
Designing in Masses
T
HE new architecture transcends detail and expresses 
the component solids of the great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles arc reared against the 
skytrue expression of structural facta has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely together.
Certainly modern invention modern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Officcs in all Principal Cities of thcWorld

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_______________________ WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1922
it is expected that in time a live and 
healthy clan will be built.
PITTSBURGH CLAN TO HOLD
LUNCHEON AT FORT PITT
ALL CLEVELANDERS RESERVE
DEC. 21 FOR XMAS PARTY
The Cleveland Carnegie Clan held 
an Informal Thanksgiving dinner and 
dance in the Georgian Room of the 
Hotel Cleveland, Tuesday evening, 
November 28. A leter from our for
mer President, Mr. A. A. Hamerschlag, was read. The letter was in 
response to a congratulatory telegram 
sent to him by the clan on his re
cent birthday.
Tech songs were sung frequently 
during the evening, and the feeling 
of Dear Old Carnegie prevailed.
There were 45 people present at 
this party, but we should like to have 
a better showing at our Christmas 
party, which is scheduled for Thurs
day evening, December 21, the place 
to be announced later.
We hope that all Clevelanders in 
college at the present time will re
serve this evening, and plan to spend 
it with their Carnegie Clan friends in 
Cleveland. We shall try to show them 
such a glorious time that when round
ing up future students for Carnegie, 
they will be able to say that not only 
is it the only place on earth while 
they are in college, but all through 
their lives as.alumni.
The present social committee as 
planning to hold a party each month. 
If there are any alumni in Cleveland 
who havent associated themselves 
with the clan, they had better do so 
at their first opportunity, or they will 
be sure to miss some very pleasant 
social gatherings.
All Clevelanders who have not sent 
their questionaires back to Mr. E. F. 
Lundeen, 12722 Barrington road, 
please do so at once, as he is making 
every effort to complete his list, and 
the Snfiormation' requested is very 
necessary.
pared menu was served, while the Ar
cadia orchestra in the background ca
tered, in its inimitable fashion to the 
mental appetite of the clan members' 
and their guests.
The alumni present included: P.
W. Schmidt, W. R. Miller, W. P. Lippincott, H. Y. Shaub, R. B. Coldren, 
H. Styri, H. B. Neiman, R McC. Ward, 
Russell Davis, L. E. Exline, D. S. 
Harding, D. J. Spence, Jr., R. D. 
Street, P. W. Emmel, J. P. Bailey, and 
the Misses Dorothea E. Steinmacher, 
and Florence E. Langworthy.
The clan entertained as guests, Mrs. 
L. E. Exline, Mrs. P. W. Schmidt, Mrs. 
J. P. Bailey, Mrs. D. S Harding, Mrs. 
R. B Coldren, and Miss Margaret 
Lucas.
After the pangs of hunger were sat
isfied, the business session was started 
and all of the old business on th cal
endar was finished. From 9 oclock 
on the time was spent in dancing and 
in having a general goud time.
A contribution of twenty dollars 
was made up from among those pres
ent for the kilties fund, and Secretary 
Lippincott was instructed to report it 
to that fund in the name of the Phil 
adelpliia Clan.
BUFFALO CLAN PLANS FOR
XMAS VACATION BANQUET
By the time this reaches the eyes 
[ of the Pittsburgh Alumni the stage 
I will be all set for the Pittsburgh Clan 
j Luncheon to be held in the English 
j Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel. Saturday, 
December 16, 1922, at 1 p. m. The 
| time has been set a half hour later 
than was originally announced. This 
| was with the hope that a great many 
I more alumni will now be able to come 
I than could at the time previously 
I scheduled.
We want to see every alumna and 
alumnus who can possibly be there. 
And more than that, we want every
one to consider herself and himself 
appointed to do some strenuous indi
vidual canvassing. Use the telephone; 
make some personal calls; talk it up 
to all the alumni with whom you 
come in contact. Dont be afraid of 
taxing the capacity of the English 
Room of the hotel. The walls will 
giveanil well raise the ceiling.
Prof. W. F. Rittman, head of the 
Department of Commercial Engineer
ing, has been added to our list of 
guests.
All visiting alumni are urged to be 
present and to leave their names with 
the cashier stationed at the entrance 
to the English Room.
Notify A. J. Hynd, Alumni Office, 
Carnegie Tech, that you are coming. 
Be there and bring someone with you.
QUAKER CITY CLAN NEWS
On Saturday evening, December 2, 
the Philadelphia Clan gathered once 
again at the Arcadia Cafe for a busi
ness and social evening. The Pom
peian Room was set' aside for the use 
of the clan.
When the members had assembled, 
a well selected and excellently prePlans for a big banquet and get to
gether of Carnegie Tech students and 
graduates are rapidly being formulat
ed by the Buffalo Clan for the night 
of the last day of school preceding 
the Christmas vacation. By choosing 
this night, it is hoped that many Car
negie undergraduates who do not live 
in Buffalo but who pass through on 
their way home will stop over and 
take part in the celebration.
Any undergraduate who expects to 
be present at the dinner should get 
in touch with W. S. Bennett, Jr., No. 
722 Prospect avenue, Buffalo, N. Y., 
who is secretary of the Clan. All 
men, whether his home is in Buffalo 
or not are cordially invited to attend, 
and bring your friend, the only. re
quirement is that you be a Carnegie 
Tech man.
At a reorganization meeting of the 
Carnegie men in Buffalo, much inter
est was shown in Buffalo Clan, and
BOSTON CLAN PARTY DEC. 16
The Boston Clan is planning an en
joyable evening for December 16, at 
the home of the President, Arthur L. 
Morley, 25 Surry Road, Arlington 
Heights, Mass.
We want a big turnout, so bring 
your girl, fellow, wife, or husband, as 
as the case may be.
Take the subway to Harvard 
Square, then the Arlington Heights 
car to Daniels street. Surry Road is 
one street to the left, off Daniels.
Smith: "Hows the liquor question
in the West?
Jones (who has just returned): No 
question at all. Why in one town I 
was in, the water had been turned off 
for a week and the inhabitants didnt 
know it until they had a fire."The 
Technique, Georgia Tech.
Alumni Fall Far Short Financial Report of 1922 Alumni Invited to 
Of Quota For Kilties! Campus Week Committee Attend Junior Prom
One Thousand Dollars Still to 
be Raised in Campaign
The Kilties are here! Hurrah! 
Hurrah!
And yet the alumni can claim very 
little creditfact is practically none 
at all.
The credit so far goes almost en
tirely to the student body. They have 
subscribed one-half of the total neces
sary to buy the outfits; or approxi
mately fifteen hundred dollarsthis 
much more is the alumni quota. So 
far they have met this obligation and 
duty by subscrining a paltry two hun
dred dollars.
For such a poor response they can
not claim a lack of knowledge, for 
they have been reached in four dif
ferent ways. The October Alumnus | 
had a long article and appeal to the 
alumni for support. The Tartans, 
every issue since October 18th, 1922, 
have had articles on the subject. Per
sonal letters have been sent out of 
the alumni office. The matter has 
further been mentioned at every meet
ing of the different clans. With what 
results? Merely this: Amount raised 
by alumni: Not over $200.00, and
amount still wanted from alumni, 
$1,000.00.
To the students who have sub
scribed through popular subscriptions 
about seven times this amount, this 
response is very poor, very poor in
deed.
This amount yet to be subscribed 
by the alumni must come in, as the 
kilts are here and being worn by 
the band:. If the alumni do not pay 
their part somebody else will have to. 
Come on alumni, get behind the move
mentgive your support!
Special efforts will be made in the 
future to get this money in. A per
sonal campaign, headed by Scotty 
Henderson, will be started this week, 
In which all Pittsburgh alumni will 
be. reached by a personal visit.. The 
matter will also bo stressed at the 
Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon, of Satur
day, December 16tli.
John T. Ames, treasurer of the 
1922 Campus Week Committee, sub
mits to the Student Council the fol
lowing financial report:
RECEIPTS 
Tags .............................$i,234.27
Theater .....................9S9'.25
Dances ......................67(3.00
Loans ..........................250.00
Miscellaneous ...........15.03
Total ...................................$3,064.55
DISBURSEMENTS
61S.07
Campus Decoration..444.23
Dances ......................597.75
38.05
Publicity ..................213.77
Loans ........................250.00
55.75
Balance by check to
A. Zelt, treasurer
Student Council...2-14.93
Total .....................................$3,064-55
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
IS BEING FORMED
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Blazing Trails for Progress
Curiosity may have killed the well-known 
cat, but it has been underneath most of the 
hard-won developments that lastingly benefit 
mankind. Once in a great while, perhaps, ac
cident has been the spark that has lighted 
the torch of achievement; but much more 
frequently  always, nearly  accomplishment, 
especially in the field of science and invention, 
has grown out of the insatiable curiosity that 
seems to be the heritage of us all. Mankind 
wants to know and is slowly finding out.^ 
Curiosity, the complement of imagination, 
knows no appeasement.
This is, however, no essay on the vague sub
ject of idle curiosity. There is a vast difference 
between that and the organized, untiring, wellplanned activity which, as an integral part of 
Westinghouse organization, searches continu
ally for the answers to problems which intelli
gent speculation sets up. This, if you please, is 
curiosity in its highest and most intensified 
form; and it is a fundamental thing in the West
inghouse operations.
Research, as we know it, is the guiding hand 
upon the purely creative activities of business. 
Constantly it brings to light new aspects of 
known laws, new visions of laws yet to be un
covered. But the search for these is not hap
hazard nor whimsical; it is organized and planned 
as carefully and thoroughly as any other busi
ness activity. Whether chemical, electrical, or 
physical, it is engineering; and it follows engi
neering methods and tradition.
Many great engineers have been wholly at a 
loss in this specialized activity. For research, 
in a sense, reverses the usual order. Its en
deavor is to discover unknown laws in the known 
factsa thing which is quite at variance with 
ordinary engineering practice. Yet there is a 
fine type of engineering mind which finds its 
great opportunity in this kind of work. And to 
that type of mind, and that type of man, re
search beckons with an unmistakable hand. 
It is engineering pioneering, it blazes trails for 
progress, to new triumphs, in a wilderness into 
whose outskirts man has scarcely penetrated.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT  OPPORTUNITY
'WESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
(Continued from Page One) 
Brown, Isabelle Chalfant, George B. 
Gordon, Charles W. Dahlinger, A. W. 
Robertson. Mrs. William 11. Hall, 
Mrs. W. II. R. Hilliard, F. J. Lanalmn, 
Mrs. J. D. Callery, Elearnr Chalfant 
and John L. Porter.
The orchestra under the director
ship of Professor J. Vick OBrien, is 
made up largely of the most talented 
and advanced students, selected grad
uates and reinforcements from the 
faculty.
The program for Sunday night was:
1. Prelude, Chorale and Fugue_____
........................................... Bacli-Abert
2. Symphony, No. 40, In G Minor...
 ..................................... Mozart
Allegro molto 
Andante 
Allegretto 
Allegro assal
3. Lyric Suite ............................... Grieg
(a) Shepherd Boy
(b) Norwoglan Rustic March
(c) Nocturne
(d) March of the Dwarfs
4. Overture to "Rienzl...............Wagner
RECOGNIZED CLUBS
LISTED BY COUNCIL
(Continued from Pago One) 
tlon glvon above by the! Student 
Council ontltles theao organizations 
to have their picture and writeups 
in the 1923 Thistle, a right which 
Is denied to organization not rocognlded by the Studont Council.
Any organization's which are not 
listed above, are asked to submit a 
copy of their constitution and by
law, as well as a financial state
ment, and an article outlining their 
activities on tho campus, to the 
Student; Council, in order that tho 
question of their recognition may bo 
taken up. Any organization which 
seems to be functioning Improperly 
will bo discussed at a Council moot
ing, and if Impovemont Is not noted, 
will bo withdrawn officially as stu
dent actlvltlos.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Reservations Should be Made 
With Committee Soon
The Alumni are luvltoct, as usual, 
to attend the Junior Prom, to be 
hold February 2 at the Hotel Schenley. Tho committee, however, re
quests that those wiio Intend to go 
make their Intentions known as 
soon as possible in order to bo able 
to provide favors for all. Tho com
mittee must be notified before Jan
uary 20, 1923.
Tho cost of the Prom, tickets will 
be eight dollars and fifty cents. Make 
your check payable to E. A. Berglund, 
Treasurer, and mail to E. M. John
ston, care Theta XI House, 4902 
Forbes street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Last year a number of the Alumni 
were able to attend. Tho commit
tee hopes that more will he tliero 
this year. Carnoglo's annual Prom. 
Is attracting more of the graduates 
each year and undoubtedly this 
years Prom, will bo no exception. 
Tho Prom, not only Is an event 
which the Alumni can enjoy from 
the standpoint of a pleasant even
ing, but also will stimulate their in
terest In tho school and the active 
student body. Lot the committee 
have your reply at once.
LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS TO
ALUMNI KILT FUND
Tho growth of the list of Alumni 
contributors to tho Kilt Fund has 
been painfully slow. Why Is it? Have 
tho alumni not boon ablo to capital
ize on tho training thoy received wliilo 
nt Carneglo Instltuto of Technology? 
Wo do not think so.
Tho support or tlio studont body 
has been very much bottor than that 
of tho alumni. Cannot tho alumni 
do ovon half as well as tho studonts.
Let your consclonco arouse your 
sonso of duty. Thoso on tho list be
low are looking for your namo. A 
chock or mall order mado out to G. L. 
TUbrook, treasurer, and marked Kil
ties will put It thoro. Do It. now.
O. E. Bronot, Mrs. Goo. R, King,
0. E. Boo, F. A. Lind, John D. Spald
ing, E. G. Peterson, Paul F. Mauor, 
Goo. E. Smith, II. R. Auorswald, Mrs.
1. I. Harnack, Hugh Brady, Homer 
Sinclair, L. IT. Loo, G. L. TUbrook, 
L. T, Kelly, W. IT. ltltts, Bosslo Finlcolhor, M. R. Walton, KD9V A. I-Ilbbs, 
K. IT. B. Julian, F. Miller, J. M. Orr, 
A. J. HyncI, Gertruda Baton, Alftthoa 
I. Burcll, T. C. Kindle, David R. Reid, 
E. F. Lundoon, E. P. Posto, H. S. Tox* 
ter, Harojd P. Greonwald, Edgor F. 
Obort, E. J. Hodhnul, A. M. Coopor, 
W. IT. Bonnott, Charles L. Yost, Holon 
Lowls, Grace Llttlo ITauHhaltor, James 
J. Haushaltor, John Kontlnln, 13. A. 
Graham, Carl Reid, Olms. W. Gibbs, 
G. W. Todd, Golda M. ITanlngor, Will* 
tor N. Flanagan, E. Gray Morrill, Buf
falo Clan, Charlot.to Smith, B. II. Walrath, Mary Landis Wallaco, Mrs. Jane 
Llndorman Colo, I*. A, Gartshoro, E. 
Clifton Wilson, Mario E. Motzger, 
Horace Johnson, Edward Johnson, 
Francos Roberts, John Towns, Octavo 
Schnurer, R. 10. VVolty, Sue F, Smith, 
John B. Moore.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14
New York Clan Meeting..........................................................................'livening
Cafe Boulevard, Broadway and 41st Street, -New York City 
FRIDAY* DECEMBER 15
Bull'ffalo Clan Meeting............................................................................ Evening
75 Niagara Square, Buffalo, N. Y.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16
Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon.................................................:................1:00 P. M.
Fort Pitt Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Boston Clan Meeting................................................................................................................. Evening
25 Surry Road, Arlington Heights, Mass.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21
Washington, D. C., Clan Christmas Party.......................................Evening
Cleveland Clan Christmas Party...........................................................Evening
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, William S. Bennett, 722 Prospect Avenue.
CHICAGOActing Secretary, N. P. Rice, 7015 Greenview Avenue.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avehue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 3320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-firstStreet.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marcoau, 202 Shcnango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, W. H. Sands, 814 Brandon Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA.Secretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Ilynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 AVick Ayenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal Reserve System
Capital.........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
B
UY a Corona on our 
$5.00 n month plan. 
Phono ua NOW for a freo 
demonstration.
Standard Typewriter Co. 
129 5th Avo. Court 343.
TLoLMO
1he Personal Witmgmhme
DANCING
------AT------
The
Rittenhouse
j EVERY SATURDAY9 P. IVI. 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service.
j Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
f3M3/SM3/SJ3M3M3/3/SM3M3SMS3JclM3
Compliments, = 
of =
Skibo Inn
The Flavor Lasts
