November 14, 1972 Volume 73 Number 10
41 Days 
To Xmas
Action Officer Sought; Cyert Says: "Hire Women"
by Gary Bronheim
President Cyert is currently in the 
process of negotiating with Dr. Ruth Beach 
over the prospect of bringing Dr. Beach 
back to CMU to be the Affirmative Action 
Officer. The job would entail making sure 
that departments were doing their utmost 
in an effort to hire women and minorities 
of high quality to their teaching rosters, as 
well as making sure that women students 
and staff are being treated equally to their 
male counterparts.
During the administration of ExPresident Stever, a ^Commission on the 
Status and Needs of Women at CMU was 
set up under the leadership of Drs. Beach 
and Shirley Angrist. The Commission came 
out with proposals that they felt the 
administration should accept in relation to 
improving the situation of women on the 
CMU campus. One proposal was the hiring 
of more women to faculty jobs, because, as 
they pointed out, there were 46 women 
and 422 men teaching here at that time. 
No women were employed on the CIT 
faculty and only one in MIS. The greatest 
percentage of women was in the Modern 
Languages section in H&SS.
After the Commission came out with 
their report, President Stever set up a 
Monitoring Committee of faculty women, 
staff and students to help implement 
recommendations in the Commission 
Report as well as helping in the selection of 
an Affirmative Action Officer. The 
Monitoring Commission put forward a list 
of six names for this position with the 
name of Ruth Beach at the top of the list. 
It should be noted that Dr. Beach had been 
an Assistant Professor here until this year 
when the Psychology Department did not
Sororities' 
Rush Gets 
34 Pledges
Panhellenics Fall Rush ended last week
end as the five sororities collected a total 
of 34 new pledges. Pledging Chi Omega 
were Pat Lawrence, Bobbie Lechowicz, 
Pam Luther, and Joan Schuetzman. Delta 
Delta Delta gained eleven pledges-Diane 
Biel, Blythe Blanchard, Jan Cresswell, Nina 
Cummings, Sue de Treville, Sally Dittman, 
Ann Kramer, Barb Monroe, Carol Nemetz, 
Nancy Pasqualini, and Mindy Phillips.
The new Kappa Alpha Thetas are Tory 
Hill and Lorrie Kerlick.
Kappa Kappa Gamma received eight 
piedges--Debbie Chory, Denise Fowler, 
Chris Green, Holle Humphries, Robin 
Mager, Karen Mastron, Pam Purmont, and 
Mary Elizabeth Williams.
Delta Gammas new pledges are Louise 
Acker, Betsy French, Libby Gardner, Ann 
Hess, Sharon Hines, Gail Naturale, Pam 
Plant, Patty Resetar, and Kathy Sabec.
Although the formal rush period has 
ended, the sororities will be accepting open 
bids throughout the year. In addition, 
plans are now being made for a secondsemester informal rush. Anyone intercontmued on page 16
Pres. Cyert has asked all departments 
to try to hire women.
Photo by Ed Levine 
grant her tenure. She is presently working 
in Counseling activities at Princeton 
University. However, some concern has 
been raised about the appointment of Dr. 
Beach. According to one staff member 
initially involved with the Women of CMU, 
During discussions centered on the 
recommendation of a Director for the 
Affirmative Action Office, Dr. Beach 
indicated to the group that she was good atDepts. To Handle Pre-Registration
Pre-Registration enrollment of students 
on class lists will be done by the academic 
departments in their respective areas and 
the time for pre-registration will be ex
tended to cover a three day period-December 4,5 and 6, 1972.
All students should arrange to have 3 
copies of the schedules approved by their 
advisors and then individually arrange to 
gain enrollment for the courses needed 
and/or required by going to each pertinent 
department at any convenient time be
tween 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the three days 
indicated.
After enrollment of all courses sched
uled, students should return the 3 copies of 
their schedules to their major department 
to be held until formal registration on Jan
uary 8, 1973. These schedules should clear
ly indicate any adjustments which have
starting things but tended not to finish the 
job. Staff and students were under
represented when the vote was taken and 
the facultys desire for a director with a 
PhD. was realized. Many staff and students 
feel a PhD. is not the only qualification to 
be considered. The staff person interviewed 
was adamant when she said, I think that 
the Officer of the Affirmative Action 
Office should be someone who is warm and 
receptive to all women on campus, not just 
those with PhDs.
Dr. Cyert has stated that he plans to 
have the position of Affirmative Action 
Officer filled by January 1, 1973, but in 
the meantime, in a recent memo he noted 
that until such an appointment is made, 
departments should make efforts to 
improve their hiring policies toward 
minorities and women.
The University presently has a draft of 
an affirmative action program which was 
put together late last spring by Dr. Jan 
Cohen, Associate Professor in English and 
Ms. Carol Kaufman, presently Special 
Assistant to the Dean of Fine Arts. This 
was done at the request of Dr. Schatz who 
was then Acting President. This plan will 
require further work by a Director of 
continued on page 5
been made in the enrollment process. 
Course cards are ultimately keypunched 
from these schedules, and it is therefore 
very important that course numbers, sec
tions, units and student numbers be accur
ate and legible.
It should also be noted that the of
ficial roster of a class is determined by the 
list generated by each department in the 
pre-registration and registration procedure. 
If a student does not sign the class list for 
each course in which he wishes to enroll, 
no subsequent issuance of class cards by 
the Registrar entitles him to entry into the 
course, and the instructors may return such 
cards to the Registrar after marking them 
void. 
Students who have pre-registered will be 
given preference for places in courses over 
continued on page 16
Seconds At Cafe To Stop
by Debbie Siegel
In response to various comments about 
the quality of food service, Dave Allison, 
head of food service, has announced that 
the Kilte Cafe will not be serving seconds 
starting second semester. We are planning 
to improve the quality of the food and 
serve larger portions of greater variety. It 
may cost the cash customer a few cents 
more as I would like to see the overall 
outcome serve as an advantage for our corr* 
tract students, commented Dave Allison.
The immediate reaction to such a 
decision has been negative as many stu
dents object to being limited to passing 
through the line once. Dr. Rutledge ex
plained, With this set-up the students who 
feel like eating a lot may go to Morewood 
for a meal and the person who is looking 
for a more expensive variety of food may 
come to the Kilte Cafe.
This decision came about in reaction to 
two pressures. Frank Colisimo, director of 
customer relations, has received complaints 
from students who desire more expensive 
food. One student, Frank Stein, proposed 
the idea of forming a supper club for those 
who live on his floor. He suggested this be 
held in the rec room in Morewood, but the 
facilities dont lend themselves to such an 
arrangement. This year food service 
reported, There havent been as many 
students taking seconds as in the past. This 
factor can not guarantee what the savings 
will be, but money which is saved shall be 
placed in improving the food. As it now 
exists, only those students who eat seconds 
are being benefited.
When asked about what specific items 
will be improved, Dave Allison replied, 
Were now in the process of revising the
menu. An example of improvements would 
be serving filet of sole which is better 
quality than the usual filet of cod. For 
lunch desserts, we would serve a whole line 
of cakes and pies instead of just cookies 
and jello. A student will not be allowed to 
go through the line again, but they may get 
another beverage by showing their card a 
second time. We realize that it is easier to 
see the long range advantages of this new 
arrangement, but we hop this new 
attempt will be pleasing to our customers.Pulitzer Prize Winner To Appear In WherretRm.
James Wright, distinguished poet and 
winner of the 1972 Pulitzer Prize for his 
Collected Poems, will appear here on 
Thursday, November 16 at 8 p.m. to speak 
under the auspices of the Activities Board. 
He will offer a poetry reading with com
mentary entitled A Visit With James 
Wright.
In addition to the Pulitzer Prize, 1972 
also saw James Wright awarded the years 
Fellowship of the Academy of American 
Poets for distinguished poetic achieve
ment, which was voted by the Academy 
Chancellors, including W.H. Auden, Robert 
Lowell, William Meredith, Allen Tate,
Richard Wilbur and others. Prior to that 
Mr. Wright received many awards in recog
nition of his work both as a poet and as a 
translator, including a Fulbright Fellow
ship, an Ingram Merrill Foundation Award, 
the 1971 Brandeis University Creative Arts 
Award for Poetry, the Eunice Teitjens Me
morial Prize from Poetry (Chicago), a 
Kenyon Review fellowship, and grants 
from the Guggenheim and Rockefeller 
foundations.
His first book of poems, The Green 
Wall, won the 1957 Yale Series of 
Younger Poets competition. His oiher 
books are Saint Judas (1959), The
Branch Will Not Break (1963), Shall We 
Gather At The River (1968), and 
Collected Poems (1971). His translations 
include Theodore Storms Rider On The 
White Horse (1964) and Herman Hesses 
Poems (1971). He has contributed trans
lations to Twenty Poems of George 
Traki (1962), Twenty Poems of Cesar 
Vallejo (1965) and Tw'enty Poems of 
Pablo Neruda (1967).
James Wright was bom in Martins Ferry, 
Ohio in 1927. He is a graduate of Kenyon 
College, 1952. He attended the University 
of Vienna in 1952/53 and received his
ued

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
editors note
For some time in the history of education, the greatest right of 
faculties has been tenure. Designed to protect the freedom of an 
academician to study, publish, and teach as he felt right, tenure once 
granted only allowed dismissal on certain specific grounds, such as moral 
turpitude.
Tenure today seems, in the minds of many faculty members, to also 
represent job security in a situation lacking such usual defenses as unions.
If effective, tenure is a valuable tool for protecting intellectual 
freedom, especially in times of social witch hunting.
But tenures effectiveness as protection seems severely limited by the 
process of granting tenure. At CMU a faculty members road to tenure 
winds through committees comprised mainly of the already tenured (and 
hence part of the establishment), through administrators who have 
themselves frequently been tenured and who must constantly face 
institutional issues other than academic, and through trustees who are 
often the establishment of the established. It is questionable whether the 
iconoclast can survive such an inbred gauntlet.
From the students point of view there are shortcomings in the 
institution and in the process.
The job security aspect of tenure is prone to abuse. An extreme 
example was the refusal of certain tenured faculty to follow the H&SS 
written evaluation scheme of grading. Less extreme, but more common, is 
the insulation tenure places between students and a teacher. The latter 
yields to requests or suggestions of the former only through benevolence.
Students are unaware that a faculty member will be dropped for 
failure to attain tenure or promotion until it happens. There is no 
provision at any point in the process for explicit student input, although 
students are directly affected by the outcome.
It also appears that while awaiting tenure, many faculty put much 
more effort into research and publishing than into teaching and that those 
who dont, dont receive tenure. This also obviously affects the students.
The concept, effectiveness, and process of tenure need to be 
completely rethought by all involved.
The emphasis on intra-mural sports has long been one of CMUs finer 
features; the sound mind in a sound body adage is too often ignored 
today.
But my annual participation always produces dismaydismay by 
teammates saddled with my extraordinary lack of coordination, and 
dismay in me viewing the attitudes many players bring to the field.
Aggressiveness and competitive drive on the field are desirable and 
beneficial aspects of sport. Contact is an unavoidable and not necessarily 
undesirable facet of sport; spirited play without occasional contact is 
unimaginable.
But cries from the sidelines of, Hit him in the head!, with 
corresponding behavior on the field, are not necessary or desirable. 
Spirited, competitive play need not include tripping, holding and 
elbowing.
Let those to whom it applies be reminded that the game, not the 
trophy, is the thing.
Steve Jurman
WRVR
Editor in Chief....................Steve Jurman
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Special Editor........................Mina Gerall
News Editor ........ Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhans 
Greg Fulton, Stacey Kimbell
Features Editor ....................Dave Guida
Features Staff....................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
jPhotography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Ric Werme, Nick Lardas 
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman 
Dan Goldstein
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Cay wood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arni6 Karr 
Stephen Hamm 
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout.................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Sports Editor ........................Jim Brogan
Sports Staff.................................Dan Buis
D.R.Sullivan, Jeff Englund 
Roger Geddes
Copy Staff ............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557.
Letters:
Editor:
Is student seante a farce? Or is that 
simply what the TARTAN means to make 
it seem? The commentary on senate pub
lished last Tuesday leads me to believe the 
second. Is it editorial policy to publish 
commentaries but not reports of student 
government meetings?-1 certainly hope not, 
because that would mean senate would 
need to find some other way to let the 
campus know what it is doing. My request 
is simple: I want accurate reports of stu
dent senate meetings written by someone 
familiar with the C-MU student 
government.
The insluting tone toward senators and 
the student body in last weeks article ex
emplifies the arrogance which has no place 
in reporting. What point is there to men
tioning that the sequence of motions given 
in the story is incorrect, other than to say 
it leads me to believe the writer had little 
intention of being accurate. Since the 
article was tag-lined as a commentary, I 
will not further discredit what described 
me as a tall blonde boy with red cheeks.
By making a motion to liquidate the 
student government corporation, I in
tended to provoke some discussion of the 
relation of the corporation to the senate. I 
achieved this end, although the motion I 
made was defeated in amended form. 
Further reaction included a separate mo
tion, made by the just-elected treasurer of 
the corporation, which will assure the pres
ence of corporation officers at senate 
meetings.
My primary concern was to promote 
discussion of what authority the corpor
ation should have. We, in senate, had been 
told that it could act only at the desire of 
senate. I cited instances where the corpor
ation had not been told to do what it did. 
Secondly, I expressed rhy dissatisfaction 
with the publications review board 
established in the by-laws of the SG cor
poration. This board presents the potential 
of becoming a censoring board, which I 
feel has no place on this campus. Other 
senators agreed, and wanted to know more. 
Likewise, the student body should know.
Will it be necessary for senate to buy 
space in the TARTAN to get report-like 
accounts of what goes on in senate? This, I 
fear, would be terribly awkward for all 
concerned.
Gary M. Crosbie 
Vice-chairman, Finance Committee
(Title for identification purposes only j
Editor:
Those of us to whom the Students Gal
lery has given pleasure will regret its pas
sing away. The number of people who will 
be affected, however, cannot be as large as 
your front page story implied.
Some ways to increase use of the Gal
lery and gain from it include: informal 
explanatory conversations (not formal 
gallery talks) among artists, faculty, and 
gallery visitors; lower prices, which would 
help build a market among undergraduates 
and graduate students who might like to 
exchange a Stones poster for a print or 
painting, and so begin to get hooked on the 
art-buying habit; an introductory course on 
art, open to everyone in the university, so 
that more members of the CMU communi
ty could learn to gain the pleasure which 
the Gallery can provide.
Richard L. Schoenwald 
Professor of History
Editor:
PIRG would like to announce that the 
$2 for the organization included on the 
pending semester bill is for the second se
mester. Due to administrative clerical diffi
culties, the letter you recently received, 
whose collections were to be for the fall 
semester, was mailed extremely late. We 
would like to remind YOU that for PIRG 
to remain on campus the participation of 
at least 35% of the student body in this 
collection is necessary. We ask for your 
support in what we feel to be one of the 
most relevant and constructive things going 
on this campus.
Steve Rubinstein 
Friends of PIRG
Editor:
It was very gratifying, and very moving, 
to see your quotation from Adlai Steven
son in the recent TARTAN. For those of 
us who worked for him it is good to know 
that your generation is not only aware of 
his wisdom, but honoring it. We are also 
convinced that the course of affairs in our 
country would have been vastly different 
and vastly better, had he been elected to 
the presidency. Thank you for reminding 
us all what a fine mind and statesmanlike 
attitude he offered to the world.
Beekman W. Cottrell 
Department of English

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 14, 1972Page 3
The Directors of the Student Government Corporation elected the Corporation's officers
at the last meeting.
Student Corporation 
Explained, Defended
photo by Elliot Arons
Editor:
This letter is written as a rebuttal to 
various cheap shots aimed at the Student 
Government Corporation (as well as its 
Board members and officers), and out of 
pure concern.
From my position in Student Govern
ment and as an officer of the corporation, I 
can honestly assert the following:
I. I am firmly convinced that all fears 
and concerns over the corporation are ill 
founded. Various individuals have made 
claims about the corporation that simply 
arent true. To say it has acted without 
authority from Student Government is 
totally without fact, because the 
corporation to date has taken NO 
ACTION-outside of perhaps, the election 
of its officers* The biggest problem at this 
point in time, is purely one of misrepresen
tation and lack of substantiated facts.
The existence of the problem of mis
conception is quite evident and shall be 
corrected. After speaking with our lawyer, 
the Honorable John P. Flaherty, we have 
decided that an open letter to the campus 
shall appear in an upcoming TARTAN to 
clarify any unclear questions and correct 
those numerous misconceptions. The 
Corporation was not designed to cheat, 
rob, hurt, molest, destroy anyone or 
anything; it was designed and shall be used 
to benefit the students of this University.
II. The Corporation is under the firm 
control of students. Our most responsible 
and concerned campus members comprise 
the Board of Directors. They appoint or 
fire the officers.
The corporation is structured in such a 
fashion as to make it illegal for it to take 
action without the consent of Student 
Government.
III. Our legal counsel is one of the 
brightest lawyers, and I might add finest
gentlemen, we could hope to retain. (It is 
only equitable at this point to state that 
Mr. Flaherty has on numerous occassions 
refused payment for his services.)
Dr. Cyert has also shown his interest in 
the corporation. His honest concern, 
numerous suggestions, and willingness to 
be of real assistance are factors not to be 
taken lightly.
IV. The Student Government will not 
loose its potency with respect to finances 
or politics. The Corporation will act as its 
legal arm, following its commands and 
taking actions under these commands to 
benefit the student body.One of the primary items of importance 
is the fact that the corporation can invest 
its money and make real financial gains. 
Once Student Government funds are being 
held by the corporation (under student 
control) we can generate additional 
hundreds or thousands of dollars annually.
I can assure you that:
1. The corporation is legally restricted 
by its charter not to take action without 
Student Senates consent.
2. The structure of the corporation is 
sound; any changes that should later be 
needed in the board or by laws can easily 
be accomplished.
3. The corporation is an asset that this 
student community cant afford to loose; 
once it is truly working it can bring 
additional services to the students.
The Corporation is a fantastic
opportunity; let us not show pettiness and 
stupidity. Make suggestions, not unsub
stantiated accusations.
Please send any comments, questions, or 
suggestions to Skibo 103, or phone 
621-2600, extension 800.
Kerry Greenwald 
Treasurer C-MU Student Govt. 
Treasurer C-MU Student Govt. Corporation
cont motu eudtp
Pulitz erWnTTtoA
C-MU President Richard Cyert recently appeared in a live, phone-in round table on WRCT.
Dr. Cyert promised to answer "any question" and received many calls. The show will be 
repeated monthly, next on December 6.
Photo bv Elliot Arons
Help Wanted
THE TARTAN NEEDS
Aid in the Business Office 
and with advertising.
A paying job is available.
TARTAN ELECTION
ELECTION FOR TARTAN
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
to be held Thursday, November 16 
at 4:30 pm in the TARTAN office
anyone wishing to run 
must contact the present 
Editor-in-chief prior to 
noon, Thursday, Novem
ber 16.
TARTAN STAFF WILL 
CONDUCT ELECTION
ALL STAFF SHOULD 
BE PRESENT
-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP
THE
r
EXPERIMENT
The Board of Trustees has agreed to add a line on the Spring semesters bill for a completely 
voluntary contribution to Western Pennsylvania Public Interest Research Group on an experi
mental basis. 35% response is needed to show the Board that there is sufficient student sup
port.
WP-PIRG is a privately incorpor
ated, non-profit, non-partisan or
ganization. WP-PIRG represents 
the concerns of Western Pennsyl
vania students and works for con
structive change benefitting all 
Western Pennsylvania citizens.
WP-PIRG will be concerned with 
housing and tenant problems, ra
cial and sexual discrimination, en
vironmental quality, health care 
delivery, consumer protection, etc.
PIRG groups in other states have 
already conducted major research 
projects which led to:
1) the legislation that has reduced 
pollution in Oregon's Williamette River by 90%
2) a suit against an Oregon uni
versity for discriminatory em
ployment of women
3) adoption of ordinances pertaintaining to lead poisoning (by 
points) in Minnesota
4) investigation of voting records 
of state legislators in New Jer
sey.
WP-PIRG has been instrumental in 
implementing several courses for 
credit, available through cross
registration, at the University of 
Pittsburgh and similar courses and 
projects are in the planning both 
here No C-MU and at Chatham.
Projected studies may deal with 
1) tenant's position in Pennsyl
vania leases, 2) water quality in 
the Monongahela and Allegheny 
Rivers, 3) the difference in food 
prices in various sections of the 
city.
Funds collected this semester from 
the mailing and next semester 
from the bill will be used to hire 
a professional staff (including so
cial and physical scientists, engi
neers and urban planners) who 
will work directly with students. 
Also a legal staff will bring the 
findings of the student-selected 
studies to the attention of the pub
lic and the proper legislative bod
ies.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 14, 1972Page 5
ETS To Find Blacks 
For Grad Schools
A new program designed to help the 
nations graduate schools seek out 
potential students from minority groups is 
underway this fall.
Called the Minority Graduate Student 
Locater Service, the program is offered by 
Educational Testing Service. ETS estimates 
that about 10,000 to 15,000 students 
could initially use the new service which is 
offered free to both students and institu
tions this year.
According to J. Bradley Williams, ETS 
director of the project, One of the prob
lems facing graduate schools seeking to in
crease enrollment of students from racial 
and ethnic minorities is that of identifying 
potential students.
Students will have a chance to voluntari
ly complete a special 17-item questionnaire 
as one step towards entering graduate 
school.
Information about the academic in
terests and goals of Black, AmericanIndian, Asian-American, and Spanish or 
Mexican-American students who wish to 
pursue graduate level education, will be 
available to those institutions seeking to
Rehak, Sr. Civ E 
Gets $250 Award
bolster minority enrollment.
Admissions officers may then contact 
students directly and invite the applica
tions of those whose particular interests 
could be served by their schools graduate 
offerings.
The locater service will be used first by 
graduate schools in December. According 
to Williams, some 300 schools are expected 
to join this year with more offering the 
program later.
The locater service is open to secondterm college juniors, seniors, and college 
graduates.
Nearly 2,200 counselors at under
graduate schools across the country have 
received information about the program 
and can supply questionnaires to interested 
students, whatever their racial background.
The student response form is also avail
able with information bulletins describing 
the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE). 
But ETS said GRE scores are not included 
in the locater service and that a student 
need not take the exams in order to 
participate in the locater service.
A CMU Civil Engineering student has 
received an award of $250 from the James 
F. Lincoln Arc Welding Foundation of 
Cleveland, Ohio.
Daniel Rehak, a senior from Leechburg, 
Pennsylvania, was granted the award in the 
1972 Engineering Student Design Com
petition sponsored by the Foundation. En
tered in the structures division of the com
petition, Rehak was one of four fourth 
place winners. His award was for a paper
titled Stresses in a Structural Member Due 
to Restrained Thermal Expansion.
The Foundation sponsors the compe
tition annually to recognize and reward 
outstanding student achievemnet in the so
lution of engineering problems in the de
sign of structures or manufactured pro
ducts. The civil engineering department at 
CMU received an award of $300 honoring 
the achievement in nationwide 
competition.
PREGNANT?  Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL} FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
Roast Beef at 1958 Burger Prices.
Arbys 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
Coupon valid: Nov. 14-18,1972 
Good only at Oakland Arbys
Arbys the 4 hour Sandwich 
isonly5 
minutes awa
Copyright. 1971 Marketing &
C-MU Grad 
Teaches 
Up. Bound
by Brandon Dula
Alexis J. Wills was graduated from CMU 
last year, and received a B.A. in English. 
She is originally from Philadelphia and 
attended Stanislaus State College in Tur
lock California before transferring to CMU. 
Alexis is now the Upward Bound English 
teacher and junior guidance counselor. 
Alexis really enjoys teaching, she spends 4 
to 6 hours preparing each lesson. When she 
first started she didnt think it would be 
easy to get to know 20 people but now 
finds herself knowing them. When asked 
about being a counselor she said, Being a 
counselor is more challenging than teach
ing, it is not difficult to take knowledge 
and give it to other people, but it is hard to 
take understanding and give it to people. 
She feels Upward Bound students are not 
different from any other students, The 
main obstacle for any student is the idea 
that learning takes work.
Alexis doesnt find the job hard, but 
demanding, These demands are more 
inside of me than outside. It would be easy 
to give students what high school wants 
them to know, but the minimum require
ments are not condusive to what you 
need.
The students feel that the class is hard 
but know that it is helping them. Alexis 
likes the students and wants to see each of 
them succeed. As for her future, she wants 
to teach Upward Bound next year, but 
plans to enroll in law school sometime.
Dr. Beach
continued from Daae 1
Equal Opportunity before submission to 
HEW. In discussion with Ms. Kaufman on 
the present status of the affirmative action 
program, she emphasized the need for the 
immediate appointment of an officer and 
establishment of an office of Equal 
Opportunity in order that the goals of the 
affirmative action program be realized. 
According to Ms. Kaufman: The job as 
Director of Equal Opportunity is a difficult 
one on any campus. If Dr. Beach does 
accept it, she should have the maximum 
support of everyone on campus.
RUGSfor Nov
wMi your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 $49
oho fatH, 1*11% 11x15% *-
 WMOUSAIf FURNITURE 
CO ROOMS, LIVING ROOMS* ETC. AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
MwSw Chair* BoM**#T Chain,
CHASES
S424 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSttMc
OMN DAILY 10 o>m. to 9 p.<n. (Saturday 10 .m. to 5 p.m.). Co> 411-109
ray.0/
Media S
Noveombr o1 r4o v ,moo,4 97m,,2, Vlbu23
0P 21l o7mbu mosi 91,d b1nt nvmo lbom, C49.
WARM-UP IN ACAPULCO!
joinThe Great
Mexican
Escape
Carnegie-Mellon is offering all students, staff, fa
culty, and their immediate families 10 days in the 
Mexican sun.
December 26 - January 4
4 nights in Acapulco
5 nights in Mexico City 
Round trip jet flight 
First class hotel accommodations 
New Year's Eve Party 
. . . and more.
0osi b1o o11 ,vo4 o1 e4i4ey4 21le c,v94 mb o74 ilb. 
h1bov9o p4b Nv97i, 103 NumV1 1e 9v,, 621-2600, 
fgo. 214. N44 21l mb a4gm91t

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
Announcements:
Student tickets for the next Drama
Department production, "Song of the 
Lusitanian Bogey/' will be distributed on 
November 21 and 22 in the usual fashion 
outside the Drama office in the College of 
Fine Arts.
TO EACH CANDIDATE FOR A
BACHELOR DEGREE AT COMMENCE
MENT ON MAY 14, 1973: A graduation 
fee of $20.00 will be charged each candi
date for a degree. This fee is payable with 
the fees for the Spring Semester 1973.
Pittsburgh Poor Players' run at UACM has
been extended November 15, 16, 17, 18, 
20, 21 due to SRO houses. Come and see 
the performance of ''One Flew Over the 
Cukoo's Nest.
The Kiltie Cafe will be open Thanksgiving
Eve, Thanksgiving Day and the remaining 
Thanksgiving Recess from 8 am to 7 pm.
All organized groups recognized by Stu
dent Senate must submit a list of officers 
with addresses and phone numbers to the 
Rules Committee, Skibo 103.
Student Senate Health Fund. Loans of up
to $200 dollars can be obtained for a medi
cal use including pregnancy problems. 
Please call Susan Peters, 421-5513 in 
evenings.
Society of Physics Students Meeting on
Wednesday, November 15 at 4:30 pm in 
SCH 5427.
The Charles Darwin Research Institute, a
non-profit scientific research organization, 
in cooperation with the Instituto Hidro
grfico y Oceanograco de la Armada Del 
Ecuador announced the formation of a 
90-day research expedition to the Gala
pagos Islands departing early in 1973. De
tails may be obtained from the Expedition 
Director, Charles Darwin Research In
stitute, 3001 Red Hill, VI-203, Costa Mesa, 
California 92626.
Sunday November 19, 8:00
pm-11:00 pm at University of Pittsburgh 
Common Facilities (David E. Lawrence 
Hall) Father Daniel Berrigan will be speak
ing on the war and his experiences; also the 
Pittsburgh Poor Players will be performing 
exerpts. from "Trial of the Catonsville 9." 
This is a benefit for Mnsg. Rice's Allegheny 
County Legal Defense Fund. Admission is 
$1.50; Tickets will be on sale at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
The Film Workshop will hold its delayed
sound projector demonstration on Wednes
day, November 15 in Baker Hall 232F at 
7:00. In addition to the demonstration, 
sound films made by workshop members 
and experimental films will be shown.
NEED A
9 9
ALPHA PHI OMEGA
THANKSGIVING SHUTTLE BUS
Pe1w hDa. 9vwcli o1 Re4vo4e BmooiVler7 kmec1eo
NOVEMBER 22, 1972
DEPARTING FROM:
Morewood Gardens at: 11:45 a.m.  2:15 p.m.  4:45 p.m.
 a n d 
Donner Hall at: 12:00 noon  2:30 p.m.  5:00 p.m.
MAKE RESERVATIONS AT:
Morewood Gardens Main Desk  Skibo Information Oesk
Tartan Travel Office  B-102 Hamorschlag Home
319 Donner Hall
 COST: $1.50 
Make checks payable to Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega
A Free Karate Tournament will be held on
Saturday, November 18, at Trees Hall 
(Gym), University of Pittsburgh. 
Competing in the tournament will be mem
bers from the Carnegie-Mellon University, 
University of Pittsburgh and Duquesne Un
iversity Karate Clubs. The tournament is 
open and free to the public. It will begin at 
1:30 on Saturday
Your presence is requested at TGIF to
boogie with Captain Rosewood's Space 
Pirates November 17 in Skibo Hall, 4:30.
The National Caucus of Labor Committees
(a nationwide socialist organization with 
international affiliates) will hold a forum 
"The Socialist Strategy in the Post-Election 
Period,'' University of Pittsburgh, 425 
Schenley Hall, November 15, 7:30. Lyn 
Marcus, founder and National Chairman of 
NCLC will explain how the political work
ing class (organized, unorganized, unem
ployed workers, welfare victims, students) 
can fight the Zero Growth austerity pro
gram of Phase ll-lll. Marcus, author of 
"Dialectical Economics, will also expose 
the pseudo-scientific Zero Growth apolo
getics (bourgeoise economists) by explain
ing the alternative, the science of expanded 
socialist reindustrialization.
The Chatham College-CMU German Film
Series presents "Kleider Machen Leute" on 
Wednesday, November 15, at 7:45 pm in 
the Chatham Chapel. The film is a comedy 
based on Gottfried Keller's novella. Ad
mission is free.
A Variety Of Classical Dances of India. The
famous classical dancer Ms. Kamala, from 
India, will perform at the Pittsburgh Play
house (Craft Ave., Oakland) on^Tuesday, 
Nov. 14, 1972 at 7:30 pm. (sponsored by 
India Association, Pgh.). Admission $3.00.
Columbia University
Graduate School of Business
MR. JACK DUNLEAU will be on 
Campus November 16th to speak 
with students from all disciplines 
interested in a graduate business 
education.
FOR DETAILS: 
contact the Placement Office!
Due to the demand for the course number
51-273, Photography, the Department of 
Design has established a reservation system, 
to prevent over subscription of this course 
during pre-registration. Reservation can be 
made now for next semester.
Photography 51-273 is an introductory 
level course and is open only to students 
pre-registered in departments other than 
Architecture, Design and Painting & Sculp
ture.
There are two sections: A Monday 7:00 
to 9:50 pm.
B Friday 7:00 to 9:50 pm.
The Pre-Medical Advisory Committee will
meet with interested students at 4:30 pm 
on Wednesday, November 15 in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium.
Classified Ads
Compact refrigerators for rent-4% cubic j
foot or T/2 cubic foot. Ideal for apartments 
and dormitories. Save food! Save money 
and eat better! Call 279-7951. After 7 pm 
only.
FOR SALE-Recording and stereo equip,;
two 4 track recorders, mixers; frequency 
equalizer; mikes; 1 Sunn 200s Amp with 
speaker cabinet; 2 15" speakers; stereo  
amp; 828-7177.
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call STUDENT 
HELP CENTER, 683-2133.
Have problems? Need help? Call the HELP
Center-683-2133-for infomration and re
ferral for leagl, medical, drug and emo
tional problems. 24 hour answering 
service-683-2133.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation. 315 S. Beliefield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
pm. 621-8875.
Russia For Sale: Educational Holiday; 4
days Moscow, 3 days Leningrad. First Class 
hotels with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and 
transfers, including ballet or circus each 
city. Only $399, plus 10% for visas, taxes 
and service. Departure date January 6, 
1973.
Call Ms. Zhivago at 391-4499 or write 
Scandinavian Airlines, 2 Penn Center, *  
Philadelphia, Pa. 19102.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
ha 0Bi h1by4bm4bo M4vdUlveo4ei 
P1o Mvednve4
A Desk Lamps ^ Key Service A Artist Brushes
A Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints A School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
Holiday 2)/inner
SERVED IN THE KILTIE CAFE
from 11:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
Lighter Luncheon Items available during these times. 
HOURS DURING ENTIRE RECESS - 8:00 A.M. TO 7:00 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972-Page 7
C-MAP Reports: 
Five Year Success
by Gary Singer
Carnegie -Mellon Action Project Students participate in a C-MAP awareness meeting.
C-MAP Students 
Rate Program
Carnegie -Mellon Action Project 
(C-MAP) graduated its first class last May 
and is currently in its fifth year of oper
ation at C-MU. C-MAP is defined by 
Norman Johnson, it director, as an exper
iment which is the primary vehicle for 
bypassed Americans into Carnegie -Mellon 
University.
This university, continued Johnson, 
just doesnt open its doors to black stu
dents as most universities do but has made 
a commitment beyond simple opportunity. 
Its like if I let you into my house and then 
dont offer you any food. C-MAP offers 
the food and has established a program 
which is not dublicated at any other uni
versity anywhere.
Candidates for admission to C-MAP are 
selected primarily on the basis of personal 
interviews, recommendation and other in
dividual evidence of potential and motiva
tion reads an admission brochure. Stan
dard predictors of performance such as 
the Scholastic Achievement Tests, seem 
to have low predictability for blacks, 
Johnson reported in the 1971-1972 Annual 
Report. The Black experience for Black 
males particularly, gives them a fair 
amount of skill in the matter of manag
ement. The project (C-MAP) teaches a 
Black male how to utilize this skill, giving 
him a comparitive advantage in the acqui
sition of knowledge, the report continued.
Students receive full tuition scholarship 
grants during their freshman year, in order 
to allow them to concentrate on their aca
demic work which might include additional 
work in order to make up undevelope areas 
in the students high school education. 
During the next three years, the students 
are required to pay a portion of this col
leges costs. Loans and summer jobs are 
made available to assist students to pay 
these tuition charges. The admission bro
chure promises that No C-MAP student
Photo by Greg Nickel
will ever be denied the opportunity to con
tinue at C-MU solely on the basis of lack of 
funds.Programs providing orientation, counceling, tutoring, and special learning clas
ses, are made available to all C-MAP stu
dents. They are still expected to complete 
the same programs as the rest of the CMU 
community and when a degree is granted, 
it is equivalent to any other degree offered 
in that particular department at Carnegie.
The annual report talks about an ener
gy conservation strategy with regard to 
the programs policy and procedures. This 
strategy, reports the C-MAP director, as
sumes that the largest demand for energy 
will come in the classroom. The program 
attempts to conserve the students energies 
by controlling or limiting social space, 
where practicable and feasible, C-MAP de
creases energy output in non-academic set
tings, thus giving the Black student a re
asonable chance in the classroom - - a set
ting which requires considerable energy. 
This control of social experience is faci
litated through additional regulations 
placed on C-MAP students which includes 
the requirement that all Black students live 
on campus until their senior year. This is 
a deliberate attempt to arrange affairs so 
that the universitys resources (e.g. com
puter center, library, laboratories, as well 
as other students) are near at hand when
ever needed, continued Dr. Johnson.
C-MAP is primarily interested in stu
dents majoring in Engineering, science, and 
quantitative social sciences since these are 
this universities strongest points. When Reverand Jesse Jackson visited C-MU three 
weeks ago, he told his audience that they 
can sit around the street comers and learn 
Black history; You are here to bring back 
skills to the reservation. This is C-MAPs 
philosophy as enunciated by Dr. Johnson: 
...this project contibutes numbers (more
by Mike Hill
The only real disadvantage of be
longing to C-MAP is that black students 
tend to be singled out by professors; as 
soon as we begin to fall behind, we are 
reported to the C-MAP office, a black 
student told the TARTAN.
This is the general reaction of a small 
group of black students concerning the ef
fect of the C-MAP program on their regular 
campus activities. On the whole, they 
seemed to be quite satisfied with the suc
cess of the organization. Nate Burden, a 
junior Physics major, said, the only other 
problem I find is that the majority of the 
white student body doent understand 
what C-MAP is. And they claim, there 
does seem to be quite a misconception as 
to the position of black students within 
the student body as a whole.
C-MAP students are originally contackted by recruiters, junior C-MAP stu
dent Sam Davis claims. They are then inter
viewed, and if found reasonably ac
ceptable, are asked to apply. From that 
point on, however, they are subject to 
regular admission procedures, continued 
Davis. The fact that an applicant is re
cruited by C-MAP does not necessitate his 
membership in the program. Financial Aid 
is also handled in the same way as other 
students. Davis received a large scholarship 
as a Freshman, but it has been decreased 
since.
The apparent function of C-MAP is to 
help students from low income areas over
come environmental changes. Its difficult 
to measure success as such, but evidently 
the students realize its imDrotance. As one 
of them said, Its there to help you if you 
get in trouble.
graduates) and, more importantly, expands 
the occupational breath of the Black com
munity in currently seriously underrepre
sented occupational endeavors: en
gineering, architecture, urban affairs, indus
trial administration, statistics, computer 
science, it indeed, makes a most significant 
contribution to nation building.
Dr. Johnson summarized his introduc
tion to the Annual Report by saying: 
Finally, four years ago CMU was nearly a 
lilly-white institution. Commencement of 
May 15, 1972 suggested that it is not any 
longer. Moreover we are working toward 
the goal - - more and graduating.
by Anne Friedman
The TARTAN recently interviewed a 
few Carnegie -Mellon Action Project 
(C-MAP) students concerning their impres
sions of the program. The concensus of 
their opinions was generally very favorable.
C-MAP is definitely necessary and be
neficial as it gives black students an oppor
tunity to go to a first class university that 
they otherwise could not afford. stated 
Ahamed Thomas. Gail Terry, a psychology 
major, commented that a black organi
zation is necessary as it makes you aware 
of different things related to blacks.
All the students interviewed agreed that 
the most beneficial aspect of C-MAP is its 
tutoring service and personal conseling pro
gram. Linda Thomas, a math major, siad 
that she was benefiting from the extra help 
sessions. She also believes that it is be
coming more effective every year. Her bro
ther Michael responded by saying, C-MAP 
provides academic resources that you need. 
It is a liason between you and the professor 
and you and the administration. Entering 
C-MAP freshmen participate in a summer 
program, Pace and Go, which reviews 
high school courses inorder to overcome 
ones academic weak points. Janet Bailey, 
who is a junior in technical writing believes 
that people who counsel in C-MAP have a 
personal interest in the students. She be
lieves that they take time to hear what you 
have to say and that this is something that 
might not be found in other areas of the 
university. Ahamed Thomas summed it up 
by saying after getting black students 
here, C-MAP does alot to get people 
through.
Criticisms of the organization were few. 
Many hold the attitude stated by Gail 
Terry you take what you want out of it, 
and leave what you dont like alone. Only 
two specific criticisms were given. One, 
that there is too much concentration on 
people in CIT. The second that some peo 
pie dont like to be watched so closely. 
Tony Maddox stated,they always know 
what youre doing academically, but then 
they help you to seek ways to alleviate the 
problem.
These students remarks seem to 
indicate that CMAP is a personal 
closely-knit organization. This was demon
strated by student Agatha Marshall who 
declined to answer certain questions by 
saying, Its a family affair.
Dr. Norman Johnson. Director of Carnegie Mellon Action Project, describes C-MAP
Photo by Greg Nickel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
Interview With C-MU Tri
by Shelley Burhans
Mr. Fred C. Foy, Chairman of the Board 
of Turstees at CMU, graduated from the 
University of California at Berkeley in 
1928 where he was editor of the Daily 
California with a degree in Economics and 
Political Science. Since then, he has served 
as President or Vice President in numerous 
companies, and has travelled interna
tionally, serving in such offices as Director 
of the Business Council for International 
Understanding, Trustee of the National 
Industrial Conference Boai>d, (first) Chair
man of the National Export Expansion 
Council in the Dept, of Commerce; Chair
man of the Moscow meeting of a group of 
American businessmen and Kosygin. He 
has travelled throughout the world on 
major negotiations, largely with govern
ments, having direct contact with Presi
dents and other officials of 19 countries.
Retired from the position of Chairman 
of the Board of Koppers Co. in 1970, Mr. 
Foy has since then been an occasional col
umnist with Forbes magazine on busi
ness-related subjects, under the title The 
Chairmans Chair, and is currently Direc
tor of the National Cash Register Co., Mel
lon National Bank; Trustee of the H.K. 
Porter Co.; and Chairman of the Advisory 
Board, The Center for International and 
Strategic Studies, Georgetown University, 
as well as Chairman of the Board of Trus
tees at CMU.
TARTAN: President Cyert has stated that 
there is a great difficulty inherent in man
aging a University adequately so that it 
serves the needs of society, considering 
that it has no profit-balance sheet. As 
Chairman of the Board of Trustees, you are 
instrumental in determining University dir 
ections and the allocation of resources. 
What are your ideas and plans for serving 
those needs, considering poverty, urban 
problems, discrimination, indnadequate 
public education, the \communications
gap
Mr Foy: The University itself cannot solve 
all these problems, but what we do want to 
do is bring to bear on them any strengths 
that the University may have. You started 
by mentioning the economic problems of 
the University; I think were making real 
progress under Dr. Cyerts direction getting 
at these, by the very realistic method of 
determining how much income this Uni-, 
versity can expect to have in any one year, 
and then going at the question of what is 
the most useful and profitable way to use 
it, i.e., What will do the most good for the 
most people? In the past the tendency in 
this (and most Univeristies) Was to decide 
at the start of the year what every college 
and every department wanted to spend, 
and if we didnt have enough money to do 
it all with, to see if we could borrow it 
from our endowment or some other 
source. Today, I think this whole Univer
sity is becoming focused on the fact that 
we have to do what we can afford to do 
since we have no way of generating income 
other than our tuition income, our income 
for the services we render, the income from 
our endowments, etc. These monies, and 
unrestricted gifts (of which we get a certain 
amount every year) are the things on which 
we can depend year in and year out. If we 
do within the University what we can best 
do with that money, we will be able to 
render the most service possible.
Im not saying that as time goes on we 
wont find ways to increase that income. It
doesnt grow of its own accord; we have no 
way of generating it as a store does, which 
can put in a line of merchandise and get 
sales and the profit from that. We have 
nothing to sell except our services, so as 
you look at the income of the University 
and at the things that various colleges, 
schools and departments want to do, one 
of the questions you have to ask is that of, 
is there a real demand for it? If were 
doing something that our student body 
doesnt really want, then wed better stop 
doing that and try to find something they 
do want, that will be more useful and can 
be done with the same amount of money.
This is not the kind of thinking that has 
gone on in Universities in the past very 
much, and is the kind we hope to get 
everyone in this University thinking about. 
Dr. Cyert has established a Policy Planning 
Council within the faculty in which the 
various schools and colleges will decide 
what they would like to do; they will final
ly talk with the Council, which will view 
the thing on a broad basis; which will ask 
the questions that ought to be asked about 
the need and demand for it; and what its 
impact will be on those problems you re
ferred to. There will then be a general, 
joint determination made by the faculty, 
the administration, and finally by the trus
tees as for, in any given year, what the best 
way is for us to use the money we can 
expect to have at our disposal that year.
who want to become public administrators 
rather than business administrators. Public 
Administration today, I think, has a greater 
need for this kind of trained person than 
business administration, simply because 
there havent been many people trained 
specifically for it. Theyve grown up in itf 
but the kind of professionally oriented 
training received here at CMU is where 
people will not be trained primarily to 
administer; what they really will be trained 
to do is to recognize a problem, to analyze 
it, to bring to bear the creativity of 
knowing where and how simliar problems 
may have been solved. These will be crea
tive people; people who will develop new 
ideas. They can hire and have under them 
people who can do the physical adminis
tration, but the people we need are the 
people with the imagination to know how 
to go about it better.
Koppers Co. has a lot of engineering 
business; we have a great many engineers, 
some from CMU and some from public 
universities. I once asked our people why 
we didnt hire them all from the CMU 
Engineering school; I think its a better 
engineering. They said, the reason is that 
if we want to hire a guy who can go out 
and put a plan together , who can see that' 
the bricks and cement get laid and the steel 
gets raised; that the whole thing comes 
together, we get people out of the state 
schools well trained to do this. But if we
Trustee chairman Fred Foy discussed his views on many issues with the TARTAN.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
One example of how CMU has been 
trying to come to grips with the problems 
facing the country today was our estab
lishment of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs. I think most citizens will have a 
sort of gut reaction that the way the 
cities, the states, the federal government is 
run ... is not very efficient (public) ad
ministration. The public cant prove it but 
they have a feeling that somehow an awful 
amount of money is being wasted in trying 
to run public services, for instance, the way 
the streets are kept up. They dont some
how think theyre well kept for the money 
thats being spent on them. They may be 
or they may not be, though 1 happen to be 
a member of the public who thinks they 
could be better. What were trying to do in 
this school, then, is to take the experience 
and background of what is conceded to be 
one of the finest graduate schools and one 
of the good engineering schools in the 
world (theres a great amount of engineer
ing involved in running public services, i.e. 
lights, power, streets, water and sewers, 
which involve a great deal of engineering as 
well as management), two real strengths of 
the University, and put them together for 
the purpose of training men and women
want an engineer to create a new kind of 
plant; to take a new concept, to take a new 
process and engineer it into something that 
this other guy can build, we go to CMU, 
because theyre the creative engineers.
So were really taking two very creative 
schools and putting them together to form 
an interdisciplinary operation in SUPA. We 
hope to send out some people who will 
bring to Public Administration the kind of 
imagination that has been in other places 
but not so prominent in public administra
tion.
What specific campus issues are the Board 
concerned with now, and what do you see 
to be the most crucial of those issues. For 
instance, the problem of the condition of 
the Fine Arts Building, and, concerning the 
Music Department specifically, with fin
ding and allocating space and 
What specific campus issues are the Board 
concerned with now, and what do you see 
to be the most crucial of those issues. For 
instance, the problem of the condition of 
the Fine Arts Building, and, concerning the 
Music Department specifically, with 
finding and allocating space and possibly 
having to build more...
This is a very important problem. Weve 
made several conscious decisions over re
cent years, such as the decision made sever
al years ago at the Board level that we 
didnt want the xhool to grow bigger. We 
were faced with making a decision as to 
this great spurt in public, particularly colle
giate, education, and had to answer a ques
tion; If the number of students increases 
by 25 percent or 50 percent in the U.S., 
should CMU grow proportionately? After 
careful consideration, we decided that 
there is a manageable size for a University 
desiring to be exceptionally good in those 
areas it decides to study, teach and re
search in. Beyond this, it becomes less ma
nageable from the point of view of the 
administration and less useful from the 
point of view of the student body; the 
contact between students and students, 
students and faculty and students and ad
ministration becomes more and more diffi
cult. The level of 4,000 students or there
abouts seemed to us to be a good, work
able level. We dont want to be as large as a 
state university; we dont want to offer 
every subject that anyone can think of that 
might be taught in a university. What we 
do want to do is improve on those areas 
where we have strength, background, out
standing faculty. The things we would like 
to add as time goes on are things that will 
build on those strengths. I have to come 
back to SUPA, here, where we put together 
two strengths we had, to make a third that 
isnt being offered anywhere else.
We have gradually discontinued certain 
things in this university; there are always 
those who dont like to see them disconti
nued, but we think if this or any university 
is to be meaningful, you not only have to 
add things that are needed and are within 
your area of competence, but you have to 
discontinue things that really arent needed 
any more. Ive had many discussions with 
graduates of Margaret Morrison who hate 
to see it cease to be a college in the univer
sity, but as a college there really isnt a 
place for it any more, although many of 
the things that were taught there are being 
taught in H&SS. We thought wed do bet
ter to keep the things that were real 
strengths of that college in the university, 
but there were things taught in M.M. that I 
dont honestly think the student wanted 
any more. Years before, we discontinued 
our school of printing and printing manage
ment because it was really becoming a vo
cational school; it was not a university level 
type school and was never going to be. 
From some parts of it, however, we created 
a very fine school of Graphic Design, which 
is doing excellent work and turning out 
well-qualified students. But they dont 
need to be printers. Now you use litho
graphy, silkscreening ... a dozen processes, 
and these men and women graduating 
know them all and how to use them.
We will gradually, I am sure, cease doing 
things in this university for which there is 
no real demand. I dont see us adding a 
great many disciplines that we dont have 
strength in, that may very well be available 
at other colleges and universities with great 
strength. Our feeling is that, in time, we 
would like to have our student body 
consist of people who have looked at 
various universities in connection with 
their fields of interest, and have come to 
the conclusion that this is the best place 
they could come for that field of interest.
Another example is our drama depart
ment. There are many people who feel that 
you couldnt go to any better place than 
this for a career in the theatre. To look at 
the facilities theyre working in you might 
wonder, but there are some great directors,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972Page 9
?tee Chairman Fred Foy
t)actors, actresses and writers that have come 
out of this school, which proves that it 
makes no difference whether you work in 
the greatest palace in the world or a tent. I 
dont mean to say that improvements are 
not needed; I do have to say that well have 
to make these as fast as we can with the 
money that we have, unless someone wants 
to give us the money.
Dr. Rutledge has stated that the physical 
plant of the university is badly deterior
ated,  and that the Board of Trustees are 
perhaps the only ones with enough author
ity to allocate the amount of money neces
sary to alleviate some of the conditions; 
overcrowding, for instance, in the Music 
Department, where it is reported that 106 
classes a week held in 2y2 classrooms, 
and five teachers without studios to 
instruct in.
This is, of course, what were working on, 
and is really the main thrust of what Dr. 
Rutledge is working on. We do have much 
space on this campus that is not being 
effectively used at the moment. Its not the 
kind or quality of space people would like, 
but its there, so that the first step Dr. 
Cyert is working toward (and I think hes 
on the right track) is to see if within that 
space we can give the music people more 
room to work in. Not better room, not 
better quality room, but more of it. As you 
know, were considering moving the de
partment over to the Mellon Institute. This 
is not being received with the treatest 
enthusiasm; the music department would 
rather stay on campus, and has suggested 
that maybe other departments ought to 
move rather than the Music Department. 
Nobody really likes to be uprooted and 
moved once theyre settled, even if the 
space is lousy. Im sure theyd love to move 
to a brand new building built for the 
purpose, but they somehow dont want to 
go over to the Mellon Institute. On the 
other hand, the people in the Mellon 
Institute, who are scientists, arent quite 
sure whether its really as dignified as it 
ought to be to bring a lot of musicians over 
playing their instruments. I have looked at 
the space there and, frankly, think it would 
be a very workable space for the Music 
Department. Its a beautiful space, a whole 
wing of the Mellon Institute on a full floor; 
theyd have a lot of room.
There are questions which have to be 
solved ... can you make practise rooms 
there sufficiently sound-proofed so that 
the people working in the labs above them 
wont be hearing tubas and drums, etc. 
while they are trying to concentrate on 
other matters, i think this is a physical
Photo by Bruce Edelston
matter that can certainly be solved. You 
have to walk from here over to there, I 
suppose, if you have a required course in 
English or History or something and want 
to go over to practise, but I dont really 
think its going to kill off any students 
around here. I guess we of the bussing 
generation have gotten to the point where 
no one really thinks he can walk half a mile 
and not suffer from it, somehow.
Mr. Foy, what is your view of the changes 
in the Physical Education department, for 
example, the requirements no longer being 
mandatory?
I cant answer that; Ive never had occasion 
to consider it. I dont think it has ever 
actually been considered by the Trustees as 
a body. I think these have been adminis
trative decisions between administrators 
and perhaps the student body ... com
munication between the student body the 
administration and the trustees has become 
much more active and responsive in the 
past. The decisions that we made to put 
student representatives on all of the Trus
tee committees and to ask the head of the 
Student Senate to sit with us at our meet
ings, as well as the faculty senate, are all 
bringing about better communication, and 
if there is a question on what the phys. ed. 
program ought to be an important place to 
start talking and thinking about it would 
be with the Student Policy Planning Com
mittee which Dr. Cyert has asked the stu
dent body to set up. There are differences 
of opinion as to whether you ought to have 
a very rigid physical program, or whether 
you ought to let everyone decide whether 
they keep themselves in good shape or lie 
in bed all day.
Some of the people in the phys. ed. depart
ment are concerned about the fact that 
there are a great number of values to phys. 
ed; sportsmanship, maturity, physical 
well-being; some dont think this should 
have been dropped as a requirement so that 
students would at least have the 
opportunity to see the wide range of 
activities offered, and the opportunity to 
become interested in some aspect of 
athletics.
I guess I get hung up a little bit when it is 
said, They ought to be exposed to phys. 
ed., athletics and what it has to offer so 
theyll know what the alternatives are and 
whether or not hey like it. It seems to me 
the trend has been a little bit the other 
way. You could make the same argument
for history, or English, or a language. I had 
an awful time when I was going through 
school dodging Latin, because everyone 
thought that all young people should be 
exposed to it. I think I may have been one 
of the real pioneers in the business of avoi
ding Latin, and managed to get all the way 
through college without ever having one 
word of Latin thrown at me. I had a hell of 
a time doing it, because most colleges and 
universities at that time required Latin. 
What Im trying to say is that if you let this 
argument go to its ultimate, you kids 
would have so many required courses you 
wouldnt have much time to find out what 
you really wanted to do your work in. Im 
all in favor of a physical education program 
being available, but I do have a feeling that 
if the people who want to offer it cant 
find buyers for it, you have to raise the 
question of whether there is a desire for it. 
You come here to this University to get 
something you want, and within the broad
est kind of scope. It seems to me the uni
versity should let you decide what thats 
going to be.
I think there are some things that you 
almost have to require; I think you have to 
require English, comprehension as well as 
the ability to write with at least reasonable 
clarity because we depend so heavily on 
the spoken and written word for communi
cation. I dont think you can consider 
yourself an educated person without these 
abilities. Im not saying that everyone 
ought to be an author or a great writer 
when they come out of here, but if you 
want to say something you ought to be 
able to communicate it so that your au
dience understands. Nothing irks me so 
much as to have someone trying to tell me 
something and then say, You know what I 
mean. If I knew, maybe I wouldnt be 
listening.
Im not an educator, but 1 guess Im 
saying that I think required courses should 
be held to a minimum, dependent to some 
extent on what the individual expects to 
do when he graduates. Ive heard people 
say that an engineer doesnt need English. 
My experience with engineers in corporate 
work is that they ought to have been 
taught how to write because they come in 
to tell you how they want to build 
something, and cant even put it down 
sensibly. They know what they want to do, 
but they cant tell you. Maybe wed do 
them a great service if in this university we 
required the engineers to just take enough 
writing to be able to give simple des-. 
criptions of what they want to do and why 
they want to do it. Many of them cant.
What do you see the differences between 
this generation and yours to be, Mr. Foy, 
in terms of educational emphasis. What do 
you see students now having to face, and 
what should they be learning for that?
I think one of the great things students in 
your generation should be learning that 
students in mine probably didnt need to 
the same extent is what weve just been 
talking about, among other things. There 
are now so many ways to communicate 
ideas, and they are being communicated so 
fast, within the whole world, that one of 
the things I have tried, in fact, to get my 
own grandchildren to understand is that 
they really ought to devote a lot of time in 
college, no matter what they intend to do, 
to study of certain phases of history and 
political science where they dont study to 
learn dates and occurences but to learn 
what it was that influenced people to 
change their thinking in the world.
This is one of the great things students 
should come out of college with if we 
could find a way to help them learn it. This 
depends to a great extent on the professor, 
usually, and the professors area of interest. 
But if more people could graduate from 
college and go into whatever theyre going 
to do in life with an understanding of what 
has made people change their minds, i.e., 
What did Martin Luther do that caused 
people to leave the then established church 
and spread new religious thinking? I was 
arguing this with my grandson, now a 
sophomore at the University of Denver, 
and he said, I hear what youre saying, but 
I dont think its important. I asked him 
why and he said, Suppose I learn it? .. .1 
cant have any effect on the world. The 
establishment is so massive, now, it feeds 
on itself to the point where no one person 
can influence it. I said, Let me ask you a 
question. Assuming that somewhere in the 
course of your life youve heard of Jesus 
Christ, he was one man. Do you think he 
had any influence on the world? He 
thought Jesus had, but then, he was 
different. I asked him what was different 
about Jesus; he was one man who walked 
up and down the Mideast and started 
teaching some precepts that no one 
thought much of, and a whole lot of 
people bought it. The establishment tried 
to hammer him down; they finally had to 
kill him, but they didnt destroy his ideas.
He insisted that that was different being 
two thousand years ago. I asked him if hed 
heard of Ralph Nader; he had. I said, Hes 
one man; you dont think hes had a lot of 
influence on this world that you live in? 
He decided Ralph had. I said, Just one 
man. So you tell me it cant be done and 
heres a man in the middle of us whose 
caused General Motors to make a lot of 
changes; theres a big establishment. Hes 
shaken up the federal government in many 
areas.
I just cant buy this; one man can have 
an influence if he really wants to do it.
There has been a widely observed calm on 
college campuses; to what do you attribute 
it, and where do you think American 
colleges and students stand right now. I.e., 
are we recovering from the furor of the 
sixties? Are we coming into a new era of 
awareness and action? Or is this a kind of 
resting period. How do you see it, Mr. 
Foy?
I dont know whether anyone really 
knows. I think that students are not any 
different from adults, actuality; they dont 
travel in the same circles so it looks like 
theyre different. I think that everyone 
who gets wrought up over something wants 
to try to do something about it. So ... you 
figure ways to do something about it, and 
there are obviously any number of them. 
You can go back to the advent of the 
century and find students stirring up their 
countries, the same as they are trying to 
stir things up now. Its always been one 
way to bring about change, to make a lot 
of noise about it to try to make people 
listen to you or try to make people do 
something that you want them to do. I 
think students tried this and found that 
there are better ways to do it. Todays 
students are bringing about changes but 
they are doing it a little more quietly and 
directly. The more thoughtful element in 
the student bodies has become more 
powerful. They took longer to get going; 
they thought about this a longer time, and 
decided to do something about it. I think 
we can see this right in our own student 
body. We never had what I thought were

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTANTuesday, November 14, 1972
Chairman Joy
continued from page 9
really serious disturbances; no one tried to 
take over the University or set it on fire 
(someone did set the ROTC building on 
fire, but I think our student body had 
more to do with stopping it than starting 
it).
But look what came out of it. Before 
our students became wrought up and took 
a more active interest in political and social 
matters, there was really relatively little 
communication between the adminis
tration, the faculty and the students. 
Today, communication is becoming the 
name of the game around here. Anyone in 
this university who really has something to 
say can get listened to, and get action if it 
is needed. The final decision always has to 
be made by the President and the Trustees 
if it involves finances or policy, but today 
you can get this. It was started before Dr. 
Stever left, but, Dr. Cyert has certainly 
carried it forward much more, because he 
believes in communication. He didnt set 
up a Student Policy Council just to make it 
look good; he really hopes youre going to 
tell him something.
I had a great deal of resistance when we 
were looking for a president, and I wanted 
tq set up a student committee to tell us 
what the new president ought to be. Many 
people said, Oh, my God, you cant do 
that. 1 asked why not.. . they live here, 
they work here, they go to school here; I 
wanted to know what kind of man they
thought we ought to have. I was told
theyd probably ask me to hire Bill
Kunstler or someone like that, but 1
wanted to know who they did want me to 
hire. I could probably talk to you for two 
hours about the student participation in 
this problem; all I can say is that several 
things happened.
First of all, the students who had been 
asked to serve on it said that they would 
like to join forces with the faculty; they 
felt the faculty was much better qualified 
to decide who ought to be president. They 
asked if I would mind their committee 
merging with the facultys; I said I sure did 
mind. 1 wanted to know what the students 
thought. I had another committee of the 
faculty,the administration, the alumni and 
the trustees, and 1 wanted to know what all 
of them thought. The students might come 
up with someone no one else thought of, 
and we ought to look at that person. 1 
asked all the committees to give me a des
cription of what they thought the job of 
president was; what abilities and charac
teristics he should have. 1 could have 
shuffled those four pieces of paper like a 
deck of cards, used any one of them to 
select the president, and 1 wouldnt have
gone wrong. They all came to the same 
conclusions, that he should have at least 
some ability to go out and raise money; he 
should have some knowledge of teaching 
and its role in peoples lives ... I could 
have selected a fine president based on the 
student description alone.
I think this is happening in colleges 
throughout the U.S., and that some of the 
pushing and shoving that was going on is 
disappearing. Students are finding that 
their views are listened to and that theyre 
not being brushed off as they thought they 
were; that they dont have to break 
windows to get anyone to listen. To this 
extent, it had a place, although the way 
they did things at Cornell and Columbia, 
for instance, went a lot farther than was 
necessary. I dont think there is ever any 
excuse for destroying property, and when 
property is destroyed that is being used to 
educate you, its not doing you any good.
We see a good example of what weve 
just been talking about in the McGovern 
campaign. There were a hell of a lot of 
young people that wanted some things 
changed, and by God, they got them 
changed. I dont know whether theywill 
get Mr. McGovern elected or not; I suspect 
theyre not going to. But if he isnt my 
feeling is that it wont be because they 
went about it wrong; I actually dont think 
that they picked a very good candidate. He 
doesnt seem to be-able to stay put, and its 
really difficult to find out what he wants 
to do because he wants to do so many 
things. There isnt enought time, money or 
people in the world to do everything he 
wants to or says he will do. I think the 
public senses this. I do think that his 
nomination and the way it was brought 
about are things that have stemmed from
this same unease with things as they are 
and feeling that they ought to be changed 
or improved. 1 dont disagree with this at 
all, but when you say things ought to be 
changed, I think you also have to try to 
improve them, not just change them.
We still have a few of those dedicated 
groups around, for instance, the Black 
Panthers -1 dont think theyre really doing 
the blacks an awful lot of good; and some 
of these small groups that stem from SDS 
and the National Student Association, they 
probably arent really representative of the 
whole group, but theyre very vigorous and 
dedicated. Some of them are sort of 
anarchists at heart, but there have always 
been anarchists around, and you have to 
deal with them. Nevertheless, well go 
forward; well progress.
The Trustees have probably the greatest
authority in the university, an authority 
which they dont exercise directly; rather, 
it goes through administrative channels. 
How much authority do they actually exer
cise if a tenuous situation arises, such as if 
students were to occupy Warner Hall?
The Trustees are vested with the authority 
for the conduct of the whole University, as 
well as for its policies, because someone 
always has to be responsible. As a matter 
of working possibility they must, in a sense 
delegate that responsibility to the adminis
trators. The Trustees do make policy deci
sions which shall guide the administrators 
of the university, and they do have to 
either support of call them off if they are 
doing something wrong. Specifically, if the 
students had moved in to one of the buil
dings of the university, were doing really 
serious damage to it and wouldnt move 
out, the authority (the Trustees) would 
have to decide what steps to take, i.e., to 
call the police, starve them out, ignore 
it... At the minimum the authority would 
rest with the Executive Committee of the 
Trustees, and the reason I say this is that 
our Trustees are scattered all over the U.S.
They always have to accept the respon
sibility; they cant dish it off and say, 
That isnVour responsibility, unless it in
volves a direct violation of the policy by 
the administration. If that takes place, the 
Board of Trustees has to take steps to 
correct it, unless they want to change their 
policy. But when you choose a president to 
administer a university, you try to have a 
fairly good idea that there will be a certain 
compatibility of ideas and interests, as well 
as to try to determine whether in the past 
the person that youre talking to has been 
able to carry out what he tried to do and 
been able to work with an organization, 
because again, one man: Dr. Cyert, cant 
run this university. He cant teach all the 
courses, serve all the meals, and do all of 
the things that have to be done.
The vote by the Board concerning the 
PIRG bill was 17 to 11. To what do you 
attribute tha narrow margin, and what 
ensued in the pre-vote discussion?
I really havent talked to individual trustees 
about it, but I think I can tell you exactly 
why the vote was divided. PIRG is a group 
which is going to do something, and nobo
dy really knows what. It is going to investi
gate conditions that it thinks need investi
gation. What are those conditions going to 
be; what are thay going to investigate? Its 
very difficult to say at this time what they 
would investigate or how they would go 
about it. I think the vote was divided not 
really on the question of whether the uni
versity ought to collect funds or allow stu
dents to have funds collected in CMUs 
name for PIRG or any other organization, 
but because of the lack of knowledge of 
what PIRGs programs might be. A realiza
tion that we all have to have is that a 
university, as part of a community, does 
really become stronger in the long run be
cause the community wants it to, or can 
very well become weaker if the community 
doesnt think it is doing a good job. We all 
realize that PIRG is not actually a creature 
of CMU; I dont think its even a creature 
of ths student body of CMU. I think its 
finally going to be a creature of a group of 
like-minded people who think certain 
things ought to be looked into, and want 
to band together to do it. That may be 
well, but if they decide to look into some 
practice in business somewhere which they 
dont think is as it should be, then do a 
study which leads to the conclusion that
they are right, and want to change it and so 
start attacking it, we can say, Well, thats 
just a group of people that happen to be, 
most of them, on our campus; thats just 
PIRG. But to the person that is attacked, 
thats CMU.
My own feeling is that this is going to 
work alright; I voted for it. But, believe 
me, if PIRG turns out to be an irresponsi
ble body, it can and probably will hurt this 
University. But I suggest that the universi
ty, if PIRG will use and work with it, has 
access to these same corporations on a 
plane where it could help PIRG talk to the 
people running the corporation and correct 
the thing without making a lot of noise 
about it. Its always a temptation, when 
you have a group thats trying to right 
something thats wrong, to let out a blast 
on the radio of TV ornewspapers. But if 
you really want to get something fixed, the 
best way to do it is to sit down with them 
and talk it out. Then, if they wont act, 
you can shake them up, because you can 
say, We have sat down and talked to them; 
we have tried to get them to change this. 
The one thought Id like to leave you with 
on PIRG is the question of how responsib
ly they will act.
I gather that the Trustees of the 
University of Pittsburgh turned it down 
cold.
The bill was defeated there when certain 
Board members threatened to resign and/or 
withdraw support due to the conflict of 
corporate and educational interests. What 
is your view of this type of action?
I dont see the conflict in corporate and 
educational interests. I dont think we have 
that kind of a Trustee Board, and I dont 
understand it. I think PIRG could be a real 
force for useful action around here; I hope 
we can work together with PIRG as we 
work together with anything else. But we 
must all recognize that PIRG is an 
independent body; the University isnt 
responsible for what PIRG does and 
neither is PIRG responsible for what the 
university does. Were simply acting as a 
collection agancy for them because they 
think, and it may well be true, that this is 
the easiest way fro them to collect money, 
which is never easy anyway. Were per
fectly willing to try it; as you know, our 
vote was to try it for a year. We reserve the 
right to say at the end of the year, Well, it 
just doesnt work from our point of view. 
It will, I think, be interesting to see if 
people put their money where their mouth 
was, in light of the 35% student majority 
established. Its one tiling to talk about it, 
and another to actually put the money in.
In the past few months, there have been 
many iefficiency moves,  such as the Naval 
banquet where university facilities were 
rented to outside persons for profit; the 
cutback of University employees, and the 
consideration of the student as a consumer. 
What is your view of this, and what has 
been the response of the Board as a whole?
Our view is that we must try to economize 
in every way that we can. Since our income 
is limited, the less we spend on things we 
dont need to do or are overdoind, or not 
staffing properly, the better we should stop 
them. Now, we may cut back too far; 
maybe well have to come back on some of 
them. But you really never know until you 
try. A case in point is the dining service in 
Mudge, which we no longer have. It cost 
more to feed those people than they payed 
for it. The Trustees are entirely in support 
of Dr. Cyert on the theory that all of the 
services that the university renders should 
continued on next paae
Mr. Foy talked with TARTAN reporter Shelley Burhans.
Photo by Bruce Edelston

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972-Page 11
Joy
continued from page 10
be on a self-supporting basis; there isnt 
any reason why college students should eat 
for less than it costs to feed them any more 
than they should sleep for less than it costs 
to room them.
These moves are designed to try to put 
that part of the university which is a big 
part of the university budget, on a basis 
where it brings in what it puts out. I think 
thats a reasonable concept; we dont have 
money to subsidize the feeding and 
housing of students, unless we take money 
that ought to be used for teaching and the 
purposes students come here for. These are 
experiments. I can only say to you that 
from forty years experience of working in 
companies and business Ive never seen the 
time that within 2 or 3 years after you try 
to bring your costs down to the absolute 
minimum, they dont creep back up again 
and you discover that you have a lot of 
people on the payroll that were needed at 
some one time and are no longer needed, 
and you have to do it all over again. This is 
the first time weve really done this here; 
its not easy. Dr. Rutledge has a very 
thankless and very difficult job. There have 
been some complaints about it, fewer than 
I would have expected on the basis of my 
experience, but were trying to take what 
money we have and put the most we can 
into the job of running an educational 
institution and a good one. Thats the 
reason for it all.
Mr. Foy, there are 2 women, 1 black, and 
no one under forty on the Board of Trus
tees. Do you see a problem here, and is this 
discrepancy an issue which the Board is 
working towards alleviating?
Well, its no issue at all. I wish we had more 
women on the Board, and I would be per
fectly happy to have more blacks in the 
Trustees, but I do think this; There is a hell 
of a difference between a representation 
and a participation. I dont want to see 
anyone on our Board who will not partici
pate and is not qualified to participate in 
the deliberations and the responsibilities of 
the Trustees in every way that person can. 
In the selection of Turstees we are trying 
to bring to the Board people who will 
strengthen it, who will make it a Board 
better able to do more for this university. 
If we can find a black woman who has 
these qualifications, I will be all fro putting 
her on. I dont want to put one on just to 
have a black woman on. We took a long 
time before putting our first black on, Dr. 
Nichols. He is a man of considerable ability 
and is well-respected in the community, 
both black and white. Hes had experience, 
hes thoughtful and hes a good Trustee, 
and thats the kind we should have. Its 
much too easy to pick out some prominent 
person whos black, or female, or whatever, 
and put them on. We put a new member on 
the Trustees this year, Lindsay Morganthaler from Cleveland. Shes a graduate of 
this University, shes a leader in civic and 
educational activities in Cleveland. Shes 
already making a real contribution to the 
Board of Trustees; we want more like her, 
and I dont care whether they are alumnae 
of not. I like them to be alumnae, because 
I think alumnae have a little more dedica
tion to the University, perhaps, than 
non-alumnae, although my own case, I 
think, proves you dont have to be an 
alumnus to be dedicated and to try to do 
something for the university. We can fall 
for the representation complex, but I 
think its wrong for the university to do it. 
A case of a different type but within this 
university is the C-MAP program.
We deliberated a long time on this
during Dr. Stevers administration, and 
there was great pressure to bring more 
blacks into the universities; to give them 
more opportunity. We reached the consid
ered conclusion that we werent doing 
balcks any favor by bringing them into this 
school, putting them, say into an engin
eering school, and sending them out of 
here with a degree that said they were 
engineers if they werent engineers. All it 
would do would be to hurt them. They 
wouldnt be able to hold a job in engin
eering, and the people who hired them 
could say, Well, I tried that; he had a 
degree in engineering but he wasnt an en
gineer. So we made the conscious decision 
that we would take a group of blacks who 
wouldnt have been admitted under normal 
admisstion standards. They either handt 
done very well in high school or they had 
certain obvious shortcomings, such as the 
inability to wirte or read English well 
enough to carry the work load. We didnt 
do it until we had found a black man who 
was competent to head that group and 
steer them through this university, Dr. 
Norman Johnson, who I think is a very 
capable man. We brought them in, and it 
was made clear to them bu Dr. Johnson 
from the very first day they got here that 
four years from that day, when the time 
came for them to graduate they were either 
going to be completely up to the standards 
of this university, as any student in the 
student body, or they werent going to 
graduate. They werent in here to be put 
through four years and given a degree; they 
were here to get the opportunity to earn a 
degree, even though they might not have 
been admitted under normal 
circumstances. There was a lot of help 
given to those people during that first year; 
many professors in this university spent 
evenings and time that was their own to 
help these people come. 'lhe interesting thing about it to me, 
and what proves the value of that argument 
is this: they came in and they were lost. 
They didnt feel they were part of the 
place, they felt like they were some kind of 
test tube experiment. Some of them were 
pretty unhappy, and they didnt do well at 
first. But everyone encouraged them to do 
what they could do; everyone tried to 
make them believe they could do it. They 
had the intelligence to do it, but they were 
limited in the things that you had when 
you got here, and it made it hard.
But at the end of the first year, the 
grade average of the C-MAP group was al
most identical to the grade average of the 
entire freshman class. Now when those stu
dents graduate, and most of them will, if 
they go out of here with a degree that says 
theyre engineers, theyre going to be en
gineers, and theyre going to be able to go 
into anyones angineering department and 
hold their heads up with everyone else. If 
they go out of here with a degree that says 
theyre qualified to teach English or 
History of whatever, theyre going to be 
able to do it. We hope to hold to this 
standard in CMU. When you see a black 
student on this campus, as far as we know 
he was qualified to come here and do the 
work, and as far as this university knows 
hes learning what he came here to learn, 
along with the rest of the student body. 
C-MAP will go on, but its going to change 
its structure; its not going to be 
wet-nursed as it was at first because it isnt 
going to have to be. Dr. Johnson and the 
other people in there know how to do it,
and when new blacks come in, now, youve 
got the C-MAP group to help them become 
oriented. It feeds on itself, and it will grow.
CARNEG\E -WELUDrt
BASKETBAUotH
o4/tdMc& ^
I couldn't get King Kong to give me 
a whirl. But when I turned on to 
Akadama Plum (the lip-smacking grape 
wine with the natural plum flavor) all 
the College Men started turning on to 
me. Thank you. Akadama Plum, for 
turning the prom giom into the bees
Akadama PlumThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. Calif.
HAVE MONEY
Om,, Vl2 b1y4,o2 md4vi, 
lblilv, 9vbd,4 d4imrbi.
IPregnant?
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us - we will help you.
AMERICAN
FAMILY
Call 441-4444PLANNING
ASK FOR JEFF
;
(215) 449-2006 
(215) 449-2007 
(anytime)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
ENTERTAINMENT
Films
CMU
I'm All Right Jack. Thursday. 4:30, 7:00, 
9:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Admission: 
Film Arts Ticket.
The Liberation of J.B. Jones. Friday, 7:00, 
9:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Admission: 
$.50 with AB film card.
The Grasshopper. Saturday, 5:30, 8:00, 
10:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Free.
PITT (
Clowns. Saturday, 7:00, 9:30 pm. 120 
Lawrence Hall. Admission charge.
COMMUNITY
Independent Film Maker: George Landow, 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Thursday, 8:30 pm. 
Admission: $1.00.
The Lodger. Carnegie 
Sunday, 7:30 pm. Free.
Lecture Hall.
To Have and Have Not and Casablanca. 
Guild Theatre. Call theatre for further 
details.
Night of the Living Dead. Friday through 
the following Tuesday. Pittsburgh Play
house. Call for times. Admission: $1.50 
with a student I.D.
Films and Television
Until The Better Film Arrives
by Frederick Gormley
There is nothing new of interest in Pitts
burgh. (Floored you, didnt I? I felt com
pelled to say something outrageous and 
controversial.) Ive looked for a film worth 
reviewing this past weekend (Ive excluded 
A Separate Piece, because I understand 
the attraction of the film is the translation 
from novel to movie, and the nuances 
therein; as of yet, I havent read the book.) 
I am not going to see The Unholy 
Rollers even if (or because) the star is 
Claudia Jennings, Playmate of the Year-I 
dont watch roller derbies, and I only read 
Playboy for the articles. And television can 
be little relief. One can sit through four 
years of Mannix, praying that Peggy 
(ever notice secretaries are all named 
Peggy? Even the male ones?) will jump up 
and tell Joe Mannix to take his machismo 
and shove it up his Pontiac. Pipe dreams of 
that sort only beget more pipe dreams.
So I sat begetting last weekend, wishing 
I was in New York. Not to lend my 
support to either side of the argument 
about which city is better, Big Apple or Big 
Mellon, you must admit that new films 
good and bad will play there first, and 
sometimes Pittsburgh waits months to get 
what New York has already gotten over. 
And I wanted to be there with lots of 
money, or a universal press pass, without 
the least desire to sleep, eat, or pee, and 
satiate myself with nothing but films.
Theater
Snter A ifree Man
by Susan N. Klein
Enter a Free Man, which closed 
Sunday night after its premiere run at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, is an unimpressive 
new play by the impressive young British 
playwright, Tom Stoppard. Stoppards 
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
won all kinds of awards five years ago, and 
his pair of one-actors, After Magritte and 
The Real Inspector Hound are currently 
among the best things to be seen off or on 
Broadway. One of the ridiculous things 
expected of.a playwright is that he always 
top his last work, and whenever he doesnt, 
critics and audiences run around saying 
what a pity it is that So-and-so lost all his 
talent. I dont know if Enter a Free Man 
will ever be produced in New York, but I 
would imagine Stoppard will be in for that 
kind of talk if it ever is.
Stoppard likes to toy with reality. He 
presents to us ordinary situations and then 
has them metamorphosize into illusions, 
like the drama critic in The Real 
Inspector Hound who suddenly answers a 
phone ringing onstage and finds himself in 
the very play he is reviewing, Stoppard 
plays games with these overlappings of 
fantasy and reality, and does it with a slick, 
smooth, sleight-of-hand style that is 
devilishly clever.
In the overlong Enter a Free Man, 
Stoppard deals with reality as it exists in 
one mans mind. George Riley is an 
inventor, and as it is pointed out in the 
beginning of the play, there arent too 
many inventors around any more. He lives 
with his daughter Unda, who supports the 
family by working a counter at Woolworths, and his Edith-Bunkerish wife, 
whose name is Contance, but whom he
calls Persephone only because he never 
knew anyone with that name. George is 
getting older now, and nothing he has 
invented has ever succeded. There has 
always been a flaw, always something he 
has overlooked. He is watching his 
daughter grow up and grow restless as she 
threatens to elope. He impatiently listens 
to the mindless banter of his wife, who 
spends her every waking minute cleaning 
house. George wants to escape, he wants to 
meet a woman and rup away, but he cant, 
and everyone knows this. He deludes 
himself with visions of wealth and success 
with every new useless invention, but at 
the same time clings tenaciously to the 
past, keeping his daughters childhood 
books in his bedroom and reading them 
over and over on the sly.
He spends hours, often days, at the pub, 
talking endlessly to anyone and everyone, 
in essence pleading for someone to listen 
and understand. He is instead laughed at, 
taunted and mocked by those he sought 
only to entertain.
The stage included both sets used for 
the story; the Riley home, and the pub. 
Each was an omnipresent reminder of the 
other, the real world as opposed to Rileys 
dreams and fantasies in the bar., John 
Pasquins direction was swiftly paced, and 
the comic nuances of the play were 
enhanced by this speed. However, the 
dialogue in the play itself is annoyingly 
spotty. Light humor was frequently 
followed by poignant and introspective 
reflections, followed in turn by a return to 
witticism. The audience response should 
supposedly have been laugh, ponder, laugh, 
but that second laugh was always stilted 
and hesitant, as if the audience was not
Scott Antony in Kn Russell's new film, "Savage Messiah.
Such as ... ? Well, the films themselves 
support the theory I hold that we are in an 
era of The Director as Star, and The Actor 
as Actor. An example of an acting perfor
mance as the saving factor in an otherwise 
mundane film is Diana Ross (yes, that 
Diana Ross-without the gown) in the 
biography of Billy Holliday, Lady Sings 
the Blues. Other examples of good work 
are Susanna York as a schizophrenic in 
Images; Gene Hackman in The King of 
Marvin Gardens, and Peter OToole in 
The Ruling Class. In The Director-as-Star 
category, we have, of course, Fellinis 
latest, Fellini Roma-The third part of 
the trio of Fellini films working out of the 
citys decadence; Ken Russell, with his new 
film, The Savage Messiah, based on the 
llife of Henri Cartier-Bresson, sculptor; and 
what is supposed to be a great film by Luis 
Buuel, The Discreet Charm of the Bour
geois. And Warhols factory has done a 
film called Heat with Sylvia Miles and 
Joe DAllessandro. taken .from Sunset 
Boulevard. Of course, sometimes a film-is 
charmed by the presence of both Director
and Actor; new examples are Tout Va 
Bien-Jane Fonda and Godard, and Play 
It As It Lays-Tuesday Weld, Tony 
Perkins, and Frank Perry.
If you wish to contemplate the distant 
future, and dabble in Ripleys Believe It 
or Not, we have film versions of plays - 
and funny (Ah-ha-ha) casting: Lucille Ball 
as Mame, Jesus Christ, Superstar shot 
on location in Israel, and Elizabeth Taylor 
in Twigs (she bought the rights).
About that last item . . . find some 
comfort that Joanne Woodward is starring 
in The Effects of Gamma Rays on Manin-Moon Marigolds. Even if you still 
would rather Sada Thompson was playing 
in the film version, Woodward seems a lot 
more credible than Elizabeth Taylor in a 
Thompson role. So if all is indeed lost, and 
it is quite likely, you might agree with 
Gloria in They Shoot Horses, Dont 
They?; she says the whole world is run by 
Central Casting. Some of us, then, must be 
satisfied that we are Elizabeth Taylors, 
answering casting calls for Sada 
Th p mpsons.
. t ^--------
certain it had a right to laugh after a sad 
line.
Another annoying aspect was the 
terrible feeling that absolutely nothing had 
happened. The situation was exactly the 
same when the curtain came down as when 
the house lights went off two hours before. 
George has tried to leave home but failed, 
his daughter has been on the verge of 
running away but returned, and it seems to 
be a situation that has happened before 
and will happen many, many times again in 
this family. They will never leave because 
they know each other too well and need 
each other too much. Theres a lot that can 
be said about the family interrelationships, 
father to daughter, mother to daughter, 
husband to wife, but these can best be 
summed up in the words of Persephone to 
Linda when asked why George never went 
into the family business. 4if he was going 
to be a failure, isnt it better that he failed 
at something he wanted to succeed in? 
And there you have it; in Georges 
repetitive situation he hates his life, but he
just could not have lived it any other way.
The cast performed energetically and 
admirably, and although the age-old 
problem of American actors feigning 
British accents still exists, it is in this case 
irrelevant. Earl Boen as George was beauti
fully intense, and as his wife, Lynn Archer 
achieved an exquisite balance between the 
simplemindedness and sanity of her 
character. Kathy W. Rubbo seemed to be 
having a lot of fun with her role as Linda, 
as did David Emge as Harry, a crafty man 
who humors George to the utmost. 
Anderson Mathews, Alan Carey, Arthur 
Pingree and Donna Pelc were adequate in 
their smaller roles. Mary Ellen Kennedys 
set was handsomely executed and cleverly 
workable, and both the lighting and 
costumes were simple and unextraordinary. 
Certainly this should not be a post-mortum 
for Enter a Free Man. Stoppard is a 
formidable playwright who deserves more 
than a half-filled house in a 300 seat 
theater. Why doesnt the Playhouse do 
itself a favor and get some better publicity?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, November 14, 1972Page 13
ReviewJacques
by Bob King
There is a certain attitude in jazz which 
tends to set it apart from all other forms of 
music. Its a feeling of HAHA-YOU 
LUNKHEADS-1-KNOW-MORETHANYOUI -DIG-BRUBECKivness. 
No, this has nothing to do with conceit, it 
is just known pure and simple, and exactly 
what the Jacques Loussier Trio was able to 
bring out in their performance at the 
Carnegie Music Hall last Saturday.
Loussier is no regular jazzman, though. 
While his style is definitely jazz, he works 
with the musical ideas of Johann Sebastian 
Bach.
Loussier
BACH! Purists shudder to think that 
Bach could be raped in such a way as being 
jazzed up, and rock cuckoos wail 
Church music!. Attendance was rather 
poor.
So it goes. For those of us, though, who 
know it all already.or who are willing to 
try something new, the concert was a 
remarkable showing. When Loussier plays 
Bach, he is not merely running through a 
few themes with variations, as is rather 
popular today; on the contrary, he actually 
plays the piece, changing the tempo now 
and then, exaggerating Bachs dynamism 
yet still capturing all the innuendos and

The rest of the Trio
subtle suggestions of the work. His 
arrangement adds a persuasive bass in 
counterpoint and emphasizing the rhythm 
and tempo is a vast array of percussion. 
The music flows along Bachs melodic line 
surging with a powerful freshness, taking 
time off only for a free-style solo by one of 
the three. It is full of wit and satire; it is 
that knowedge of jazzmen which allows 
Loussier to be as free as he is. Accepting 
the greatness of Bach, he can transform his 
music into anything he wants without 
infringing on the original piece.
Technically, you could ask for no finer 
musicians. Loussier, whose style and 
mastery of the keyboard has been matched 
by no one, led the group through the
Photo by Ric Werme
fantasias, preludes, and fugues of Bach 
with ease. Pierre Michelots bass solos were 
magnificent displays of manual and 
aesthetic dexterity, and Christian Garros, 
set the pace with his brilliant manipulation 
of his drums, cymbals, and triangle. The 
enthusiastic audience gave them a standing 
ovation and urged on the playing of two 
encores.
I left the hall with a certain feeling of 
superiority and cockyness. As I made my 
way into the cold reality of Pittsburgh I 
saw a girl walking out with her boyfriend. 
She looked at me and give me a very wry 
smile. Yes, I think we are smarter than 
everybody else. As for you who missed 
Jacques Loussier, Well..............................
f- '
Loussier in deep concentration
Mark/Almond Cancelled
The Mark/Almond concert, scheduled 
for Saturday, November 18, was cancelled 
by their agent Thursday, November 9. 
They cancelled because Jon Mark, a co
leader of the group, collapsed on stage the 
previous night, during a concert at the 
Main Point in Philadelphia due to compli
cations involved with a finger which he 
severed several weeks earlier while on vaca
tion. His finger graft doesnt seem to be 
taking and it is feared that he also has 
gangrene. As a result the rest of the 
Mark/Almond tour has been cancelled until
further notice.
Mark/Almond, who were to have been 
CMUs Homecoming Concert, cancelled at 
that time due to the initial loss of Marks 
finger and his resultant hospitalization. 
They were rebooked for the November 
18th date because of the large amount of 
favorable response the Concert Committee 
received from many disappointed fans.
The Concert Committee regrets this 
second inconvenience to the students and 
hopes to do another concert, if possible, 
the first week in December.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Festival presents:By Popular Demand: Series I
Night of the Living Dead
November 17-21Woodstock
November 22-25King of Hearts
November 26-29\fellow Submarine
November 30-December 6Performance
December 11-13Gimme Shelter
December 14-16
T
December 17-19Hour of the Wolf
December 20-23Satyr icon
December 26-28Putney Swope
December 29-31
The Pittsburgh Playhouse 
222 Craft Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pa 15213 
621-4445
General Admission $2 00 
Student Rate with I D $1 50 
Sunday 7:00 pm and 9.00 pm 
Monday through Saturday 
7:30 pm and 9 30 pm (Unless stated
V
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH THEATRE
PRESENTS 
Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill's
THE THREEPENNY OPERA
rri^r FOSTER MEMORIALBOX OFFICE 8 30Pm
621-3500, ext. 331 Nov j7 jq
1-5 p m - Mon. - Sat Dec y 2 7 g 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14THE TARTANTuesday, November 14, 1972
os (ustevnev
Crolli
The Tarpan. 
OCT. 2S, 975 .
The Tartan >
OCT. 3t , 1972. :
11 Gallery Close11
v
"Skiboto Shut Doors v 
"Students Most Provide Own Meals "
The Tartxxn.
MAR. IB, 1980 :
 Dorms Locked Up #f
11 To be Tom Down for Parking Space 7
\ ( ' 
u v
3bi Tartan, 
APR. Zlt 1983 :
wUniversity Goes Bankrupt" 
Pal* Semester Canceled for Students
VI
The Pitt Ntws,
SEPT. 6 , 1983 :
11 Enrollment at New High "
Tmo Thousand Transferees from Tech *
# Reco3mx.m3 -fcfc*e responsi bi I rttj to presejrft 
odi sides o*f important -topics  CT.C^.
P Lecture Bg T ifi Huddle/ton UJftrS Film 
Of FIDemon/tration
ABORTION
0bP1ewvom1b
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
kb kV1eom1b 9vb V4 veevbr4d 
nmo7mb jq 71lei 
You can return home the same day you leave.
Call Collect 
215  735 * 8100
Ec4b 7 Cv2i k O44u
P/YCHOKinE/l/: miflD COflTROL/ mflTTER
fTlondoy Hov 20 7*30pm Carnegie Lecture Hall S3 /tudent/$2
prtMnlad by PSl Raworch & Development Corp coll (421) 281 ~4166
INDEPENDENT FILM MAKER: 
George Landow 
FILMS AND DISCUSSION 
Thursday, Nov. 16th at 8:30 P.M.
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall 
Tickets: $1.50 Students: $1.00
BETO'S PIZZA
Bmxxvt M1o M1vrm4i
11 pm-l am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
Amateur and Free Lance
PHOTOGRAPHERS
Obtain a Photographer's Identifica
tion News Card, which helps to get 
you past "lines" to where the money 
shots* are.
To receive your NEWS CARD, mail $2.25 ($3.00 
for Card and Carrying Case) to:
QUINN
Y. O. BOX 4719  PITTSBURGH, PA. 15206
hvwcli hvw4ev M4vdUlveo4ei 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
-m,w
Be194iimbr  fUlmcw4bo
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Nold4bo Cmi91lbo 1b a1io 0o4wi
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
Opening Up the 
Man-Woman Relationship
A one evening encounter for singles, using sensitivity exercises 
and techniques to provide insight into ways of freeing and deep
ening personal relationships.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 7:30 p.m. 
5417 WALNUT ST., SHADYSIDE
lin fl U   1L 1 ] 1 J

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972-Page 15
C-MU Hockey 
Opens With Victory
'A*
Halfback John Radic carries against Thiel with an assist from tackle Jim Stupar.
Tomcats Nail Tartans 
With Late Burst
Photo by Rie Werme
by David Girdany
The CMU hockey team opened its regu
lar season Sunday, November 5 with a con
vincing 9 to 5 victory over Duquesne. 
Johnny Hauser, Mike Gallaway, and Jim 
^ Powers each scored two goals for the 
winners.
Duquesne scored in the first twenty sec
onds to grab an early lead. A few minutes 
later, though, Hauser, trailing Gallaway on 
a breakaway, fired in the rebound to even 
the score. A minute later, Gallaway put the 
Tartans in front. But then, the puck rolled 
crazily off the stick of a CMU defenseman 
| and managed to elude goal defender Jeff 
Hart. Hauser finally put CMU ahead to stay 
by scoring on another short shot minutes 
later, and from then on, Duquesne was 
forced to play come from behind hockey 
against a Tartan team that was to control 
the game.
One particularly bright spot for the vicotrs was their ability to skate off the Dup quesne power plays. Jim Powers and Joe 
Molnar did so very effectively, and each 
even scored a short-handed goal.
Hart played a good game in goal, and, 
with the game out of the Dukes reach, 
Larry Gordon entered the game to prove
by Roger Geddes
This years first basketball practice got l underway November 1st under the new 
leadership of Coach Rudy Yaksick. A 
native Pittsburgher from Baldwin High 
School, Coach Yaksick attended Bethany 
College for his B.A. and West Virginia 
University for his M.A.. At Bethany 
College, he played varsity basketball and 
now holds most of their scoring records.
For the past 13 years, Coach Yaksick 
has been coaching high school basketball in 
eastern Ohio. During those years, he won 
numerous championships and in 1969 was 
elected to the Ohio Basketball Coaches 
Hall of Fame. He has also written several 
textbooks and articles on the game of 
basketball and the coaching of it. Also 
aiding in the coaching of the CMU Tartan 
basketball team is Assistant-Coach Jeff 
Hollis, a CMU graduate and varsity basket
ball player of last year.
At the first basketball meeting, 30 
players attended, but at this point only 24 
remain. Of that 24, half are upperclassmen 
and the other half are freshmen, There will 
be 12 players on the varsity team, which 
includes the five returning lettermen; Mike 
Wegener, Tim Taylor, Mark Donato, Doug 
Miller, and Gary Rentsch. The remaining
that he, too, can stop shots.
Except for some minor defensive lapses, 
CMU played an outstanding game. Of the 
nine goals fired past the Duquesne netminder, not one was scored by Mike Ken
worthy, last years leading goal-getter. This 
ability to score without Kenworthy points 
out increased depth and improvement of 
the team this year. Kenworthy, however, 
was not shut out, as he added three assists 
to the Tartan cause.
C. H. Bender played a fine game for the 
Dukes and may have been the one factor 
preventing the game from being something 
less than a game.
Scoring Summary: Period 1: (1) DuqBender (unassisted) (2) CMU-Hauser (Gal
laway) (3) CMU-Gallaway (Kenworthy, 
Hauser) (4) Duq-Stepinski (Sullivan) (5) 
CMU-Hauser (Kenworthy, Gallaway) (6) 
CMU-Pichai (Farman)
Period 2: (7) Duq-Cotton (unassisted)
(8) CMU-Gallaway (Hauser, Kenworthy)
(9) CMU-Molnar (Powers) (10) Duq-Boylan 
(Bender)
Period 3: (11) CMU-Powers (unassisted) 
(12) CMU-Bauer (unassisted) (13) CMUPowers (Molnar) (14) Duq-Kolakowski 
(Bender)
players not on the varsity team will play on 
the junior varsity squad.
Commenting on the season ahead. 
Coach Yaksick stated, We hope to 
improve the overall direction of basketball 
at Carnegie-Mellon and bring a winning 
record to this school for the first time in 
many years. One has to look back to the 
1966-67 year to find a winning basketball 
season at CMU. The Coach would 
definitely like to improve on only three 
victories last season.
Coach Yaksick plans to play city type 
basketball this year which consists of a 
free-lance offense and pressure defense. 
He sees this as the way basketball should 
be played because it is far more exciting 
for the players to play and the fans to 
watch. A competitive ball club that will 
run and pressure the ball at all times is also 
promised by the coach. This years 23 
game schedule looks to be very tough with 
no weak schools in it.
So far the enthusiasm of the players has 
been excellent. They like the style of play 
that their new coach has introduced and 
they are all hard workers who want to 
improve the basketball program and 
produce a winner at CMU. It is hoped that 
the student body will respond as 
well.
What should have been CarnegieMellons finest hour on the gridiron this 
season, Thiel nailed down the PAC football 
championship 14-12, Saturday at Tech 
Field. Tomcat fullback Mickey Kuhn 
crushed CMU with a 36 yard touchdown 
run late in the fourth quarter. The Tartan 
defense had bottled up the explosive Thiel 
offense up until this point, while the plaid 
offense was dominant to even a greater 
degree.
The Tartans spotted Thiel a quick 7-0 
lead by fumbling the opening kickoff at 
their own 23 yard line. The Tomcats 
roared in with the bullish Kuhn scoring on 
a one yard plunge. After the kickoff the 
Tartans drove into Thiel territory only to 
lose the ball again on a fumble. The Tartan 
outlook seemed as gloomy as the overcast 
sky. The teams exchanged punts before 
Ron Shinault hit Brian Carlock with a 19 
yard touchdown pass, capping a 61 yard 
CMU drive in eight plays. The two point 
conversion failed.
Stanley Nye recovered a fumble at the 
Thiel 19 to give the Tartans great field 
position for the second quarter. CMU made 
three big pushes for touchdowns, as Bob 
Curtis and John Radic avenged their earlier 
fumbles. Curtis scored from the eight on a 
play nullified by a penalty against CMU. A 
second drive was halted deep in Thiel 
territory when a Shinault pass was inter
cepted in the end zone. The third try 
proved successful when Radic scampered 
26 yards around left end for the score. 
Again the conversion failed. The Tartans 
took a 12-7 halftime lead which they felt 
should have been larger.
Opening the second half Thiel put an 
offensive drive together, but defensive 
stalwart Ray Terza intercepted when they 
finally crossed midfield. The Tartan 
offense controlled the ball and the defense 
continued to sparkle, until Thiels big drive 
and score in the fourth quarter. After this 
score CMU rallied 55 yards to the Thiel 17 
where two penalties erased the would be 
comeback.
Statistically the Tartan dominance can 
clearly be seen. CMU won in total yardage 
306 to 194, and in first downs 20 to 10. 
The offensive line of John Sabol, John 
Moore, George Pavlick, Tom Loughran and 
Jim Stupar had their best day, opening 
holes made good for 210 yards by Curtis, 
Radic and the hard running Chris OLeary. 
In the air, Shinault completed 9 of 22 for 
96 yards. Carlock and tight end Dan 
Maletic were his favorite receivers. Thiel 
failed to complete a pass, a credit to the 
defensive backfield and a furious pass rush 
led by ends Art Hunkele and Bob 
Pyzdrowski.
Thiel finished 6-1 in the PAC and 7-2 
overall. CMU drops to 3-3 in the con
ference and 3-5 overall. The PAC was well 
balanced this year and with luck CMU,
John Carroll or Allegheny could have been champs. Both Case and Hiram proved
tough as no team could go undefeated and 
each team was involved in three or four 
close games. CMU almost forced a four 
team playoff.
The Tartans will be gunning to improve 
on last seasons record when they travel to 
Hiram this week to close out the season.
f Tartan goalie Jeff Hart deflects a Duquesne shot.
Basketball Coach Optimistic

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, November 14, 1972
Foto Contest 
To Be Held
Recognizing the enormous popularity of 
the hobby of photography at CarnegieMellon, the TARTAN, the Student Gallery, 
the C-MU YWCA, and the Camera 
Exchange stores are sponsoring the 
TARTAN Photo Contest.
Up to three black and white prints may 
be entered by any member of the campus 
community in the three categories of 
competition, People, Events, and Still Lifes 
or Landscapes. Prints may be any size up 
to 11X14, and must be mounted (mounted 
size maximum 16X20).
First prize in each category will be a 
$15 gift certificate to the Camera 
Exchange stores. Second prize will be a 
$10 certificate. In addition, a special issue 
of the TARTAN will carry the best photos, 
and all will be displayed in a special show 
at the Gallery.
Prints must be submitted to the 
TARTAN office, YWCA office, or the 
Skibo Information Desk by November 30. 
Entry forms are available at those locations 
and at the Student Gallery.
Wright
continued from page 1
M.A. and PhD. from the University of 
Washington (Seattle).
Mr. Wright has taught at the University 
of Minnesota and Macalester College and is 
presently a member of the English Depart
ment at Hunter College in New York City.
Libraries Announce Vacation Schedule
The following hours will be in effect for the Hunt Library and Engineering and 
Science Library for the Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years Holidays. Also 
included are extended hours for exam period:
Thanksgiving
Wednesday, Nov. 22 
Thursday, Nov. 23 
Friday, Nov. 24 
Saturday, Nov. 25
Regular hours will resume Sunday, Nov. 26th 
Extended hours - December 8 - December 18 
Regular opening hours
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
9:00 am-5:00 pm
Christmas and New Year
Dec. 19-20-21 
Dec. 22-23-24-25 
Dec. 26-27-28 
Dec. 29-30-31 -Jan. 1 
Jan. 2-3-4-5 
Jan. 6 
Jan. 7
Regular hours resume January 8, 1973
Mon.-Fri. - 8:00 am 
Saturday - 9:00 am Closing 2:00 a.m.
Sunday - 1:00 pm
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED 
8:00 am-5:00 pm 
9:00 am-5:00 pm 
CLOSED
Charles 
Herbert 
Corle
381-2441 
Hours by
Appointment
NOTARY PUBLIC
"WE ARE LOOKING FOR a student to sell 
our 8 track tapes. We are respected through* 
out the country as producing a premium 
product; have your own thriving business. 
We carry almost 500 selections of all types 
of music. Soul, Pop, Oldies, Country and 
Western, Popular, etc. If you are interested 
call Melody Recordings, Inc. (201) 575-9430; 
ask for either Mr. Jones or Mr. Reid."
Sororities
continued from page 1
ested in sorority life should feel free to 
visit any of the sorority floors in Morewood-Chi Omega-5C, Kappa Alpha 
Theta-6C, Delta Delta Delta-7C, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma-3D, and Delta Gamma-6D, 
claims Pan-Hell President.
Registration
continued from page 1
all students who have not pre-registered 
regardless of their classification (i.e. Senior, 
Junior, etc.)
ACOUSTIC RESEARCH
Speakers
at
neduced frucc&f
Also Speakers, Amplifiers, 
Turntables, Stereo Compon* 
ents by Dynaco, Pickering, 
Scott, Empire, Acoustic Re
search all at comparable 
reductions!
SEND FOR PRICE LIST!
fidelity
Chouse
WRITE BOX 1290, DEPT.
POINT PLEASANT BEACH, N.J. 08742
ADMISSION?
ATOP
WINNING POET
Photo By Thomas VictorJAMES WRIGHT
8 p.m. 
In The 
Skibo
WHERRET
WINNER OF...
 1972 Pultizer Pr ize for his "Collected Poems"
 1972 Fellowship of The Academy of American Poets
"for distinguished poetic achievement"
 Ingram Merrill Foundation Award
 1971 Brandeis University Creative Arts Award for Poetry
 Fulbright Fellowship
 KENYON REVIEW Fellowship
 Guggenheim Fellowship
 Eunice Teitjens Memorial Prize for Poetry
 National Institute of Arts and Letters Grant
 Rockefeller Foundation Award
AUTHOR OF...
 COLLECTED POEMS
 THE GREEN WALL
 SAINT JUDAS
 SHALL WE GATHER AT THE RIVER
 THE BRANCH WILL NOT BREAK
Room
SUBJECT
"A VIST WITH JAMES WRIGHT" 
B14oe2 S4vdmbr lmo7 h1ww4bove2
 Presented by The Activities Board 
