VOL. XXI NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTEQF-TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1927
CARNEGIEWINS 
OVER PITT IN
VOL.XIN177
Skibos, Rejuvenated by Return.of HarpsterHo Lineup, 
Conquer Pantinr, 25-24
DOPE IS AGAIN UPSET
To Meet W. & J. Tonight; 
Have Never Won From 
Presidents On Floor.
Five Scotch huniers sallied forth last Friday night for the rocky slopes Fi . the Pitt Campue. They had heard rumors of e ferocious Panther that roamed unmolested oo theso wooded hillsides. Panther hunting has becoino v favorite sport among the Scotqfi and these (Ire bekilted individuals were, in the proper mood (or a good lively Pnnther hunt Rumor 
had It tht'thes Scotchmen wro ill equipped tor 6Uch big game as they were stalking and opinions were. expressed that tlio Panther claws would leiivo many,and deep scratches.
PantCers have a habit of fighting dearly for their pelts aod eF 
seli respecting Panther can vest peacefully in bis grave when he is 
baonted by tho vision of bin beautiful Jkin adorning the bony kueos of a. son of old Scotland. This particular -specimen was esperiuUy' ferocious and things lookod exceedingly bad Cor th five huntsmen. The Panther shrieked aod clawed, the huntgmon banged away with their artillery and If ever a battle* was fought savagely, Ola one wa6. Scotch ore for 
famed for their policies of.cnon omy: ajnmunuion Is very .expen* slve, so they made very eh&t confit Harpater, famed for his btrnts among the Irish., was > especially proficient with his bluuderboas,. He would creep up on the savage nnlmal, drive home a shot and b'olT In a flash, onlyto return again and. again;; ho was particularly annoying.' Amans.-a veteran
game, drove home many shots tbat nearly-, proved fatal: White wasvery [consistent'In bis efforts and when Hurd and Lynch would etop a particularly savage Panther as* 
saiilt, he woulld retaliate in a mannerthiat was very offeetlvo in loosening the animal's skin,. .->
TOe^raFfcalf o^ slightly 'in ioVor. of the nimrods. Their clothes were torn and tat-, tered, and their skin was marked' to many places. The Panther was 
in ' very bad shape. Hie Bnarls were not.as.aw-inBpiring as they
. had .been, his. tail , did not lash as vigorously as wht.ii . he firpt arrived on the scene .of battle, In fact It was a llmplng-Panther that crawled to the , treetop for a 10-
v During this rest period both parties were revived'to no-slight ex(Conttnued on i*age Two)
Y.W.C.A. to Hold Exam Teas. 
At Wraehs Club Room
Dae to the approaching examina
tions aud tiie end of.the first semester, the Student Industrial.dinner and exam teas are tho only activities sponsored by tbe Y. W. C. A. this month. : .- During' examiuation ...week^theY"-will hold teas in the Womens Club room "In the gymnasium-on the following days: Friday, January.Wednesday, January 26, and' Thursday, January 27. They will begin at 3:30. Miss Spurrier .-will' read from'-. Herbert (ray's, "Voinqn an<
promised.' The program will help the students to forget exam troubles for a while, In.fact, they must forget'them. for, anyone who even mentions the subeject wM/he. lined one cenC for each wonl spoken.At t;ie Student Industrial dinner hold at the East;Liberty T. W. C. A., Spahrand. Aider  streets, on 
Wednesday. Janbary 12, Miss Young, general secretary.' of the East' Liberty Y," led the discus. slon/ .Uifi subject, Relations Be; tween Men' and' Women, was a.of the topic discussed the last meeting. Students1 from iiigie, pitt and.- Pcnnsylvanl
contli
Jolle*/ Woi
ploynient. Dinner was. served at 6 and the discussion .hour followed. 
The place where the next meeting wlilbe held has nqt been decided upon, but there "will he another dinner-meeting' -immediately after the opening of ; ihe 'second; semester! .probably on, Wednesday,'jFels. rnary 9.
MUST OBTA1K .
PERMISSION FOB USE
OF TROPHY BOOM
1 Tho athletic department has 
announced, that any. one desiring^to use the Trophy lioom in 
the?,Gyinnasium building as a placfe for. meetings 'Tnuat first 
obtain permiasion. at.Mr, Over: 
ends officc. \ '
.-ThiB - applies to all organize lionsamong the undergraduate 
body. an^L also alumni organiza
tions'.'-.
REV. REID WILL SPEAK 
AT CHAPEL, THURS
DAY,. JANUARY 20
  Rev.--Reid of/the-St evens.. 
Episcopal Church will be the 
speaker In chapel, January 
20. The soloist from the Mu
sical Department will be /d Nern. 1 /
At 12:50 next Thursday, 
Rev. Reid . ot the Stevens 
Episcopal Church of Sewlckley will speak in the Little 
Theater. Each week the Y. 
M. C. A. scqircs a clergyman 
or priest to speak. The 
chapel Ib .non-sectarian and Is 
.open to all especially the Btudents.
AJ Nern, popular baritone,. 
will render "Aria from Handel's Messiah.". A1 Nern Is i member of tbe Clef Cluband a member of tbe Wood* lawn Club which heasreci ly received b charter fr the executive council pi Phi Kappa. Psl fraternity.
NEW TRIO TO 
PLAY T PROM 
NEXTFRIDAY
Harmans Versatile Three 
To Feature in -Novelty i 
Junior Formal in Schenley
PATRONS NAMED
GLEE CLUB TO SING 
IN CONTEST AT 
MEMORIAL HALL
Winners Will be Sent to 
New York to ompete in 
the National Contest
s Ournegio Tech Glee Club 
hnii be&a entered in the ltei-col testate Glee Club Contest ot .-Fenniylvanla which Is to be 
leld at^ tbe Carnegie Musi Hall In Pittsburgh' on the evening of February 19. The Carneglo Glee Club which ScFo ' progressed leptionally woll under the direction of Harvey Gaul, the music leader of Pittsburgh, will undoubtlly make an excellent showing, id Tech may well expect Its singers to carry oil the^ honors of this unique feature In which th Olce Clubs of Pennsylvania..State, tho University of FennsylvcnJa, Ruckncll. Juniata, and Washinga and Jefferson will participate: The intercollegiate Mulcal Coriratlon which ws founded in 
1913 and has had very successful usons since its beginning le fosring the contest The corporain has announced that the Glee dab! which meets with .ali the preribert rules and regulations, and wins th contest, will be .sent-to  York City in. Moresby ;the (Continued: on Page; Two)  -
MUSIC DEPARTMENT TO 
HOLD RECITAL SUNDAY
The students of the Musical 
Department will present their second recital in the Little Arts Thear this Sunday evening, January 
I,at 8:16 p. m.
The program will consist of sevat numbers by the String Quar
tz This quartet .is composed of the following , men: Raymond 
.ndi, Meredith Stump, Merroll Holllhshead, and Stewart BlackiclUl will also .include 
iy Ihe .following aololsta: Al Nern, Mary Kllen Thurston, le Murdock, Ella Scanlon, and Paul Kleyie.The program le as follows: Grieg ....String Quartet, Op. 27 Allegro nrnlte ed agitate 1 Raymond Band!,; Meredith-Stump,- Merrill Holllnsbead. Stewart Blackmore. . . . I. Mozart ................. ..........Alia, "II mlo tesaoro" (Don 
Giovanni)Allan V. Nern .Saint-Sans .!......................Introduction and. Rondo Ca>- priccloso ..
Mary Ellen 14. Schubert ...........Schubert . ^.......Das' Wlrtshaui
Schuhcr' .. Das Fiachermadchei Kizzle Murdock. Elegli
Blld
at-Saens 'Allegro. Appassionai
Whitilicad dub meeting, will . again'address'' the 
inemb.erB of the club and. their friends at <lie meeting of Februai 13 in the Church of the Ascenslo : Mr. Haft, one of the most pop lar student-past^rs at Lhe Unive slly of Peniiaylvanfa,-is well knov in', s'tudont.'circles ai).d ,Is' to 1 found , at ', many oE . liieir conf< ences '. He will speak otr'ft subject 
of interest .tn students, and, ( f<>re, the-Tineeting. will be...opi ail students, iri^ Carnigie, -Pitt and the.,^ Pennsylvania College , for jyVomen(-tir. -to-anyone else who may..he"intercsied;....... ...i The WhltatoeQd .Club  meets aj the Chiurck pt the. Asccnelon every 
bthpr .SandayV at, 5:30^ p.-. m. Sup:
the speaker^;!-, and; : :dicuas(n ampngihetudent, Although' the' V/hitehead ' Club ' i:'. composed mainly of ''EpTsfeopal studente: of 
Pitt, Tech and 'P.' .c;  W., . ail BtuTioket Sales Committees and 
Publicity Men. Near End 
- of Busy Two Months.
Scarcely more than a week re* ains before tbe. Mens Junior Dm, to' be held at tlie Hotel Schenlcy on Friday evening, Jan28. Tho group of patrons end neeasB for this formal function of ihe third year men will In-lude the following:Dr. Thomas S. Baker.Dvan Mary W. Green.Dean and Mrs. Arthur W. Tarbell. v. '
;rlg;
Director nnd Mrs. CliiTord B. Connelly.Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Morehead.Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Lanahan. Ju'lge aud Mre. Welter P. StetAmong the cllaperbnes to be
Pror. nnd Mrs.' Wllllnnl R. Work. Pnf. and Mrs. Henry K. KirkPatrick.Prof nnd Mrs. Charles C. Leeds. Prof. Frederick C. Swanson.Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Iverend.
doubtedly -pleasing to the Juniors, have been reported ' concerning Iiarmans Greater Orchestra, roup of - twelve - superb niuslthnt le to furnish the music for the Prom. The chief feature 
of the orchestrala'it-i extreme miiRUQl \ersalUli-y. Harman s that this cbaractcrlBtic Is nost important 1n amodern < organization, and in ful&ilteh his demands the players all handle at least three separate Ineats, and many are masters  even greater number. A . il trombone-trio: le one of the: iiove.lty^e^wea^wyj,'. pase.hlnifiilf.
ireh'ostra Is the player that orglnilly held: this position in Whltey Kaufmann3,popular 'band. Dave 
an has one ol the most pleas-, ing personalities ever found in an tCoatlnued on Page Two)
Carneglo. eludente may.be inter'rhid ln knowlog that the 'Campus' Week show of lust ^r^'A DM*- te Woman, by Sam Jdnneiv had a niarked1 success.during' the rust season on the metropoli; tan stage. .Tbe play.- opened -InPhiladelphia-early in tbe year, and. shortly after went Ui Now .York, 
& it'has ju6t finished a popuivnt}-on Tveeks run under lew title of "LcB'Anklea. It will open again shortly In Bos-, ton for a three weeks showing there, to be followed by .five, xnoiti woeks in New York, after which the play will again visit Philadelphia for a time. Before - going
elght^Bpi'lng carnival o his  credit', . "hod Ib a. senior rchitect an:l a member ot Sdgma Alpha Epsilon frtitemity. Among other honors, hu is a member f: >ragns, the Senior class honor loclely; Pi Delta Epsilon, the na-\ ionul jou'malictic honorary .- fra-' tornlty; Scaraib, a national pfofea^i sional fraternity in architecture; 
Tau Sigma Delta, another na-. ai honor society in the College (Continued on Page Two) -..
THE EXPANSIONS 
IN OUR COLLEGES
Complexities Caused by Bapid 
Growth In. Colleges.-
Christian'Science Monitor. ' ntericans are Just beginning to realite bow much the college* of tbe United States have been changing. in the past 20 years. Rather uncriticalljK. the * college, 
vhlch should be the nome of.crltl:iam. has grown, like other.Amerl:an institudoas; in. si2e .'of:-plant ind peTsonnel,* )n ' admlntBtratlye nachinery, lii complexity. One :an picture the consternation of the first faculties of Harvard or Willlani and Mary, should they re:urn today and see the thousands of students and hundreds - 'of courses-., in. ..Cambridge', and Wllliaiiuburg; one ' cAn -imagine' (Continued on . Pago Four.)
3 for the. week of Jan
which
Ity will *be royally feted; - Thursday and Friday evenings ive been set aside as "Carnegie Nights. The eutlrc program will center around Carnegie Tech. Initatlons-have b^n issued to. the 
ntlre football squad and a tal inied trio, consisting of Allan Neru, Meredith ^tump and Jackwill
will
th three of the knowledge iac i in the city, Carnegie Tech Pitt and Duquesno .College, th< Collegiate Week-1 program  iurely be a' success. .'The foatui if the program will be the po'puli Colgate^ College; orchstra. : This troupe of talented music maker? are either  alumni or' iindergradiiates of Colgate .and have Just completed a tour of Europe In which, tbfcy met' with highest pi several occasions Ihey played betre the Prince of: Wales; who lcted them'as'th peppiest'I most talented', orchestra he . has1 
healed.: Beside this attraction there arathree acts' .ail ot which1 arV headIlnera in the theatiical world. Tbe feature' picture,' ,,Thre You -e " 
strrng  Coiira ' Ngel. 'ywlll plet the' program. This etry. l.a 'roirtng : comey ..Inw;hich' Naiel takes the-part of a: college student
A Desperate Wojnan 7 th C.W. Show 
Has a Marked Success On the Stage
COUNCIL CHOOSES 
8TH C. W. HEAD
Elect Axnold Perreton to 
Head Spring Carnival 
of Second Term
B E Gl N PLANS NOW
the hoita ' elctd -lastweek;: i r this year'nold
i&tiia. recomn?endatlon .of last years chairman and the special committee. '
mpus Week chairman's } of the largest and mosi undertakings on Uie ich year, and it So Indeed 
to be considered
irked <Ini yi in i
Perreton very ably Lhe general committee an assistant chairman, posici
i In Chicago, itWestward Tor I? espected  that' "Looee .'Anklos" wlll play in two other cities, one of which will probably be Pittsburgh. The .hits of.tho-show aru the parts. ihat were ployed by Don McClure; rnnd Den Ford in the Campus Week p redaction.
- - .The moving pictuno production of /LooseAnkles".is having a phenomenal success under the title "Ijidles at Play,*-which appearodin Pittsburgh last week. -Mr. Jon* ney also recently sold the title rights for. Loose Ankles" and'-he Isnow preparing n new scenario to be produced shortly for. the motion pictures ender this head.
Cast For the, "Silly Goose, 
th Arts Ball Show Chosen 
andMusicNumbers Written
REGISTRATION TO 1 
BEGIN FEB. 1ST
Expect Large Number oi 
New Students in Spite 
of Higer Tuiton
FINE FOR LATENESS
 Registration for the second semester  will' bogln . February!; covering the .usual period bf two 'days. Day classes will he ,reBuincd on Wednesday.' February 3. V The. number of " new students who will register tho second senv ter. Is expected to pasa that of previous years, ln\spilto or tho slightly increased tuition rateo. . Although ^nid-eemester entrance is not en
couraged at .Carnegie, approximately seventy new freshmen will be admitted. It te ImpOBBlblo to obtain high school credontlals ft
Women to Hold Profrt 
In Fort Pitt Hotel
Prince of Wales Canadians 
Dave Harmons to 
Provide Music
TICKET SALE MON.
itudpnta desiring admittance for the second semeBter, as. the iilglv school term has not yel.endedl As a result of this delay.. It Is impossible to determine definitely the number entering S3 freemen.
; Particular interest In the College or Fine Arts is evident among those desiring admission. - Tho office -of Allien. Bright, roglBtrar, is constantly deluged with ..appicaMusic, P. & D. and othof courses, The popularity of this coUge.may be aUilbutud to act-that It is tho only school i klnd In tho country, 
spite-of the flood of applicafor tho college of Fino .Arte; tudenta will be admitted at 
ear. Margaret Morrison willadmit now students at this time, but there is n plan for handlling- ^ IBeSiBLryeajw --ftTft 
Preparations, are well under way >r the Womens Junior Prom,' blch will be held .February. 26,. In the English room of the Fort Pill Hotel. The affair promiseeto be of the outstanding /.social s of th season.. Undfec. the direction of LuclU Galmlstj^cfiairfn^r of the committee, the^ft-om eanu0t\h/0thr'4han-.uau3uaittna interesting.  ';*;
To help defray tlie expenses of the Junior Proin, the women of the lor' class will give a bridge. 
This, affair will take' place on 6th f February, In the Margaret Morrisoi
Tickets will be ^old forelx dotThe sales will be conducted In -tlje halls -of . Margaret^Mor.riuon
jate.rt at (he
light
order, to hold.the.Prom o 25th of February, it w:s very esaary for the Fort Pitt Hot give up their, regular Friday dance. The dance will be held 9 to I la tlie Euglish room of th< Fort PittA very attractive' dinner hai (Continued on Page Four.)
The regular 'meetlug of Studcn louncll, yesterday evening, Janu ry 11, was both busy and Intrt ig. Gabriel Wessanauer, Coun the ball roiiinj
-with a nor.thly i fhlck 601
full , lent ft :if the complicated term* 'had to be interpreted to a less accountlngly" Inclined Council.- Then Council . passed tbe Budget Committee's. recommendation to award.major letters to this years bead cheer , leader,. Jack Hotchkiss, aod to the' buslnei manager, Mark 'SelberL T.he In-; dutries Smoker budget. . ii passed musber. ; r A letter coiiceriilng damage il< at ' the Fraeiiman Ail:Carnegie dance in. th Union, January 7. namely disfigurement of th^walle
of .the.doors.^was; brought up, for. ton^lderatlon.: ;-'  it ' ',w; yoted;. to chajge up' the -repair bill' to th ^eshman -Class. ' ;.TJie  ap^; polntment of-Arnold' Perreton\,aa Chairman, o : the" 627 .Campus Week was. &n. important feature or
the meeting.
required'after thisidvantage iiientorlng nbw. ' usual flne of one dollar-per day for late registrants will-be 2mAlthough this fine Is cono the.-wisheB of (he ofllclals, ecensary to prevent vacanclasses on tho next WedneaSOPH GIRLS TO BE 
f ; GUESTS OF A.A.U.W.
Oilsta To Mak^iEipcctlim 
fe Tour (tfiOa^egieo
The Ajner1c6n.;-AB60clatlbn '. of Tulvorally Wo^eni/and Cafnegia Toch will entertain the Sophomore of the high schools of Pittsburgh and the vicinity on SaturJanuary 22. Invitations have eent to-tho glrls of slxty-nine ctoals; n'd - extensiveflns; -ar; being made to saute the visitors enjoyable'afternoon, - 'he girls will be the guests of the Women's Athletic Association In the gym from 2 to 3 p. m. A basketball game, y a [swimming ]m,q.ct'and,-other sporU ai chede*<i to shnw' the healthful exercise id (un that can be crowdod into gym period. The next hour will ) spent, touring the Margaret Morrison Carnegie-school and here remante 'will he served. From 5 the visitors will visit the 3l ot Fine Arts, . A program will be presented In the Little Theater by the Glee club, There will also be short talks given by repre
sentatives of. the various schools, Emlly^ Fui Ion will speak for the Margaret Morrison glrlB, Dorothy  " (Continued on Page Two)
Carnegie Professors 'Attend Conferences
Various members of the Carnegie Faculty.used their .'Christmas holt day 10 good advantage. The following members attended.meetings; of learned societies during this. bri<
.r.:D^ McLcod attended .the.Modern 
'Language Association, bridge; Professor Gcckeler,. tho American Association for the Advancement of Sdcnce, In Philaldel' ijhia; Professor Esquerre,..a :meeL,lng on . Btutleut. health, in -- New York; Dr. GrilTIss, the . American 
Economics . Association, rin. St, .Louis; . Professor Crandall,.' the. American ' Society. of University instructors in Accounting and the American .Statistical . AsaoctHdon, slao fn St.-Louls; -Professor Fettko, 
tho.GeoIogtaM Soclety of Amer' in MadlaonL; Mr^HOnter. the Ai lean' HrttoricaJ Aasociatian, . 
Rikhester. N., Y.,. and - Professor Kirkpatrick, the American
D. GREGORYS 
ORCHESTRA TO 
PLAY FOR BALL
POST BALL FOR $2.50
Arts Boll Decorations and Or* 
ohestra To Be Vsed At 
the Poat Ball.
Announcement has just been made by Arnold Perreton, Chair" ot the Arts Ball, oi the s lag of Don -Grogorys celebrated orchestra for the, 1927 Arl Ball. The' committee Is proud to ha\-e secured an orcheatra.of such assured standing: . These ten musicians are well khbwn In tbe Pittsburgh diS' trlct, as they have appeared here nomerous times! They played tor Avo weeks at the Willows. ! of their otber engagements thatwill testlty to' their popularity'___Crystal Palace,: New . Yor), lor threevyears; PennState Ball;Bnll, Phlladolphla; Donee land, Cleveland; Moonlight GardCanuton, Ohio; Alpha Sigma -Convention, \ ESrie.  unrs . and Phi Kappa Convontlon at Philadelphia. They will play at .Pehn State tho 25th and 26th of-February.
Dan Gregory's orchostr will play 
so (or the Post . Ball, Bnturday, February -P. ' The committee-for Post Ball, composed ot Allan____i, chairman, Davo Wilson and.Moredlth Stump, has completed oil arrangements necessary. The same decorations that are used for the Ball, will be used lhe following night A special entertainment Is promised as an added attraction. The tlokets will be priced at 42.60 couple - This will provide ad exllont opportunity for those students not Jn Arts School to-dance the miiBlo of one of the most popular.orchestras in the country. 
The cost'for the-Arts Ball Show, The - Silly Goose," has bsen chosen, Is tho announcement of___Rygg, chairman ot lhe showcommltte.. The play, written'; and directed' by Don WlllBon, concerne a vory mysterious an^. Illusive
memberst.of tho xuat are: TomLewis, Jack Horner, Ietei Rygg, Don (Continued oh Pago T^o).:. . ..
AT CARNEGIE THIS YEAR
Carnegie "will rocelvo the honor, 
the annual Scarab' exhibition this year.- The exhibition o* itches' of - Arehlteotural 'interest submltlod by Btudents from ihools^all over the couptry will be held In the Arts bulldlng wlthln ie next'few-weeks. '.Tim exhibition conslutB-of drawitags submitted by. students for tho itial Scarnb competjtii the first, limc' that th .bepn; held at Cak-nefi _ .nsored by the  Scarafi hity.v'/an ''architectural ' honoiory  has'chapters' in all of -the principle schools ofarchitecture throughout the. couulry.. - <The awards have not y^t"iwfu announced'' blit will proba>bly be medals and will be.awarded to tlm ownersvof the throe beat plates submitted-,, -. . Tpe  'competition' is openSEMESTER'S PINAL
Tho final examinations for
' Friday. January 28, both dayB inclusive. The schedale
tre6bman.- exams
This change will i sure the stadents of a' more comfortable place  In cold weather, since the gym Is much better heated than
 Tuesday and Wednesday. Freshmen will get .their grades from their faculty ad* visor, while upper dossmer
WJILL OPEN THIRD 
H. & V. INSTITUTE 
THIS AFTERNOON
Invit Students adn Faculty 
to Lectures, Tour, and 
Demonstrations
-annual Institute for Plumbing, Hoating and VonUlrilingIndwstrlos ia under way today. Reglstrattona began, thir morning,- 
nnd will probably continue -throughout the afternoon as the, more disdelegates 'orrlvo. Tbe Instl tute: will be a-busy oue wl.th  lec* tures, domonstiatioua. tours.of in* speetlon and 4be customary  "gotTho.,topic to be oovered by tbe faculty In the lectures have already appeared In this paper. In* vltatlnnewere mailed last week to 
very membei' of the Carnegie feqble.' - This ,Invitation Is accorded to all Btudents who aro interested ' sanitation aind ils advancement.. The talks, will be couched; in lan* 
guage' tnsUy grasped -by the.- l&y(ChUntted n -Page^^Two) :">'
Industries" Slitto 
Plans Completed
V Movfes^fi^tSnt Be i n g 
Feature^: With ; Smokes
.and Refreshments.
)-studei) of.arci/lecture'liah/ 'school wh'crelnythe^ organize on fiss a'chapter.The local chapter will hold a. judgement on work oubuitted In this school BomeUme next week. The final Judgement of work from ver the country will be mode group' of the best known architects In Unltod Sihtes. .'Is of particular Interest that went should bo held at Caraeglo this year in that 11 ie more or Saoo a forerunner of tho. annuulconvention of Scarab whioh la. to be held at Carnegie next year.
The Margaret Morrison Freshmen will honor Lhe Sophomoree Juniors and Seniors at a dancl which will be held in the. Uuloi Saturday evening, February 1! from9:00 oclock until 12:00. -: The efralrt..in the form; of i Georg; Washiugtou .dance, will bo 
given tor the upper.classmen who during tlio past few months
The committee in charge1. Mi garct Weinor, Virginia Krab. Margaret, ICenoy, Betty Raukin and Mary Tooiney'nave aunoiinced that decoration's will b ln keeping with', the occasion.' :
 .They ;wlil feature the .combination of cfass colors ' and fingsi Thero will alsobe sr'eclai. entrtalnmeut and. dsiuty.refreshments: The': Stndeai -Tramps OrclieBtra .has been engaged.' Fpf the added 
convenience or; the' crowd theypect to entertain, special permission haa' Ii.een:.secured to. keep 'the  fac-'nlty topen.Thos.ewho'^ve been asked tp chaeroh''.''&'v'rr':  'Mre. Phpu(;'MIa.,BoaeU,.Clis.dv(Hl 
and Mr* Weaver, Al*" a part, list of .pijrns and', patxoneaae which lias bcu drawn ldfy includea 
Dean: and Mra.: Tarbeil and. DeanPLEBES W|E LCOM E,
ms for tho 'annual-Indutrlos 
Smokor to bu -held February 1'4,- rapidly nearliig' completion.. Tags.' at the price o( fifty:'<pehta, will be ,on eale 'i this' week.-v'Ndth-' lug but an unusual evenings enter* talnment could be expocted'froth the College cr indualries, which la tlie oldeBt school' of the lnatltuto.The -piogram .for 'tho evening' promises' niany'novel and onLertalnlng' stunts.; A lately released cr>mdy, together with o news reel, vfll.lv Btarti;the evening's>' fun;- : Bob Siiyiidr la In-charge of the. works' management stunt, 'fbe building ruction stunt Is undertho direction of Dunk" Turner and (Continued onPage' Four.)
Puppet's Dirty Numbfr** For Sale on,Campus Today
The Dirty Number of the Carnegie Puppet will be sold ou the campus .today. It Is'said that .this number will answer that ancient question, "Can a humorous, magazine be dirty and get away Svith 
it?" 
vlow of Galahad, John Arskiiies new book Is Included in the number. One of the other features will be the exceptional aasortiuent
The name of the'Puppet has pienLy cf basis, as this Issue is a conglomeration of every variety oC .dirt, mild arid strong, with the Campus element In tho lead, .luet what the school ih. general and others In particular will. think of It remains to be*seen! It Is worth buying. ; ' '
At tho: monthly ,meeting of the Carneglo'' Meclinical. , Engineers Society^ which; was lild on Tiisday, January 11, Profes.Bi' Estep
chnnlcalEnglneyrti',..rep.orted,.tho coiiference .pioceedinga . aud . gave his ,impressions 'of .'the ' mebttng. At the coni^rencevPrefeeeor-EBtep was'  appointed;:.'Hpnbiniry. Chairman ;of the local atudent branch for,the;ml4g'year.v:'-.''\^'.y.'^^. ' A com'mltteer was.-ap^ointe.d by 
ihe^chalr^TV^C/.il. banket i-lo?.' be>Lhe1d flarly'lnthe.opring.^ com-mIttee 'conVl9tB qf H;' ,'W. - Joiler* 'on,!; gl BbnVt;'v R.V B^wn'steini VS. Hoirinan; and . Ernflst -proacher; ';
i  ^ " \ j.
CARNEGIE TO 
HOLD SERIES 
OF LECTURES
Program Brings Prominent 
Lectures to Pittsburgh For 
Technical Discussions
LECTURES ON LIGHT
Chemical. engineering Series 
Will Begin On Friday, - 
Pebniaiy.4th.
interestto Pittsburgh; eugiueers aud sciehtists, the Carneglo Insti, tuto oC ' Technology will prosent four series .of technical discussion* 
during.FebruaiT aod March, Pros-, -Idcnt Bnkor has announced.
Th nrncmm. It Is announced.
chomlstry ot Princeton University, ono' of the .outstanding physical chemistQ in-thls country; Dr. 'Robert W. Wood.i-prtifessor' of oxperi-' 
mentnl 'physics of' Johns Hopkins University,- widely knownphysicist; Dr. Cecil H. Peach, director o the department1 ot metallurgy of Sheffield University,' considered to bo the lending European anthprl'ty ' metallurgy, and s|z englnooro who, will givo-tbe fourth annual 
iu chemical englneorlng . problems nnAer the Joint nneplcta - of thei' Chemical' Equipment Asso^ clntton nnd the Carnegie Institute or Technology.
chemlcnl. engineering series planned to be ofInterest to cheml-.cal Vlll'-begla on1 Fiidfty, Fobiiiary 4, with a tectura by . W. C. Wo.lwr^ot  poor. Compaioy, oh "Hydraulio
Separation andConcentration withthe Fahrpnwald Slzor.1' The rc* mnlnlnp five lectures In this series will bo glveaT oh the evohlngK of Fobriiory ,18, March 4,18wand 25. Loclurers will inolttdo A; E. Mar^ ihnll,-Coming Gifl;88;-Worka;.E. A.; 
Siiherkrop; Durlron Company, tnav, H. 'J. Ruuytin. jr., ;Unitod Fllteta' Corporation; ;a.:;d. .Cartor; tindo. Air. Products-,.Company; C.  L. ftiegBl,],Q^heral...,aieotriQ/Cbmpany. :THesoiioi. by''>l>r/tTaylor .on :' 
chemistry, eubjocia ia--anhounood'  tort Monday,; Tucaijfty ,and Wednosv 
day,. I^Vuary 7, 0. ' He willdiscuss iho foilowing topics; .Mo-',. 
(lny^vFo^ruarV '7, Absorption  and
'^Tbo')MnChahlSrt'oivA.cUyaUon':nt Cftlaiyilo . jSurfncBB," -Wednosday,. February 3,;''Photochemistry ".and Catalysis ' Vf *
In; tho',.f6li6wlhg weok, a series ' ' >f; t\eo lectures, ou physics AvllV bo: '. delivered by; .Dr.,. Wood, .who, wlil^ ; sbenif ion!. Thursjlny  and Friday : weht^j.Febrwaty. 17 and i8, ou rs-: ceh^^rk .on V;U6; opi|cal ';exolta* 
tlonii^speci.ra.-jW';^ i;.,'.. .L.: 
The'Cesch lectui'03:will be.given' i Febvuary 21,28 ant] 4. Subjeicta. of.: the'1 V serifs'\ are:; annouhosd' as.. ie 'CnstaltlMtion ,' of " Stebl;'(Continued, op .Pago Thpje.)
Science Stag a Success; 
Seniors Win Stunt Cup
D&wea Plan. Payments To; 
Other douniriei. Not'. 
Discouraging. .
Last Saturday night tho 1927' Science Stag was held in the Un-, Ion and the Commons with an &t, tendance probably -thi> largest. In t(ie '.history, ot this .annual Engin*: eorlpg School event. Manyfaces familiar la. Cormor ;yearawero notlceablo. ns a very large group of aclentfl alumni supplemeated tho greater ' part of tho active -under*,, graduate body Sn.-.establlshlae-tho/ -. record crowd present  The ' Science  stag comniltee, deeirvea > ' high degree of crdit for jlht suecess of the smoiter. .,The evening's program starteil - about olglit o'clock .- with several opening inumbers by aplehe ^ orches'tra,'followed by a'very .appro* prlate address of .welcome by-Director. Mctt The FreBhman class' stunt "Cussingand Discussing" proved to be a, vory humorous and ohtcrtaialrig dialogue between,two blt\ck-face .comedian. The Sopho* - 
itibr. stunt wasa. 'rather aijiuslng 'comhnt entitled ' . Shades - atid 1 Shadows... Professor. Triaks of. the Mcchaiilcal - Department was the second speaker of tlie-eveningand ho obly lived up to his reputa*. tlon foivbelag. ajfluont 'and. inter, 
estiug talker. A HpQCiol. . PaUi9showrelctwhich Cavnegles fat__football team starred. Ihcluded I this were various othercampus vlows and acones of .paBt eventB. The:,.Junior Class ,stunt, .'titled , rSkltsf and . Sketches/ offered a 
nbyei mus'lcalKtrio anil an 'artlef of rank:'' The Senior^roductlon yas . 
'ft ^niualca'. , extfvagaaia' .' ,caiiert i-katjai. Sl^tchVkau.6ky.,'Bod-' savv-Jiorcd of a burlesque on .the-v'.'6tu;";.  dent Prlncc, The VagatohU'  
KlngV'^ liiits;:;. :
; i :i26
class<' prsentation ;^Bb"; Waddell.; gave on.- of-, his -v^ chracterlstlcaily ltor^sting'tQlcJ.v ^: :primirilytabut.tbls Irlsh-biatri. 
th; Ali
.t'.this-;y'e'a^si>tio^ Then*At ^tnirtU ln . ^ : ; .
'i is

---------------------------------------------------

LtARNTO DANCE:
Jacques flchoot of DancingrCRAlG AND FORBES 8TS... 
. Beginners Monday and Frfr day v-Evenlngs. .:' Advanced, Thursday J and. S&turdRy EveaJngs.1 .':irivate'. lessens by appointment.' .'.. Mayflower 7891
; BUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET'.Wo Deliver AllOrder. ;- <1. O.' BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7644 
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M. STAUPT
FORBES ANO BOOET STS.
. OAKLAND
GJhs largestseUvtg 
: qualtypenm
xjEms 
..VewiS:
j give best, service and _ I longest weaxt
JwmlasiS
Amuioo Patii Co., 215 Filth AT&.H.T. lofVNIQUETHoUeJ !>ln 12 color$1.00 per dw.
WbenYouFaeetbe Business World
When your aehool Ufa la over and you face the buslnpss
CATERING
Prices Reasonable
That onr Refreshment Entertainment is moat desirable for Fraternity and .all other School Affairs, experience -will' convince.
 Small orders receive the same careful attention as the mor. extravagant.'
Trip Began January 17; 
Movies and Slides to 
be Shown
MOVIES OF 26 TEAM
CAVREG IS TU-UQ 
FH-QHY, PBD,-
Buddy - Qvorend, Graduate Manner and Executive Secretary of the Alumni.Federation, started on his western trip yesterday, and all cions west of PiUs: burgh. Tbe puipoae'or the trip Its >. keep the alnmnl la closer touch 1th the' Alma Mater, and to give 
.them an opportunity to obtain first hand Information about Carnegie
gaged in school affairs.Arrangements for meetings, din. ners. or other '. gatherings of the alumni, has been left entirely to the Individual clans, -with the request, however, tliat the place he suitable tor showing 'motion pSc-Mr. Ov<will lia^
our major foes, and also a hundred slides showing views of the .campus and buildings, Including improvements and proposed improve
ments about .the campus.. The mo: vies .'were shown at tbe Science Stag for. the first time, and met with hearty approval; .
It should/be borne In mind by the alumni tbat they should invite thsir friends to thegathenngwhen Mr. Overend calls, especially .those who might he interested In attendJogy during tbe1 years 1921- .924. as. a. student In the College if Engineering, Ib now located in 
Brooklyn, tt Y., where he and two associates are engaged Jn construework, on the nowsubways in York.. Mr. Regan Is a memfun old established family In Fall River. Mass., and Is a grad
uate of Durfce High school. After ig Carnegie, Mr. Kegan, lor a v ns employed by the Pcnoola Slate Highway Departin the capacity of surveyor mgineer on highways about' i miles east yt Pittsburgh, in his career he was afflllwllli a prominent englneer,lnK firm in Chicago, trom -which position he recently withdrew to take up his present work In New  urine lhe time Mt. Regan Carnegie Tech he. was prominent in campus activities, be' member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, and an art contrite etad member of the Pupew ot this fact Mr. Regan, be^n Infuturethealso dcslrod tbi ilals of various Companies be inIted who mlght 4ie interested lu mploylngouralumnl inthefuture. Hr. Overend will be prepored to anewor all queatlona pertulniog to the school to the best of bis nbility The ^alumnl Office bas ilBts of ail
o communicate with rticse indi Idtinls. Individual alumni na) 
>btaln the timo and place ofi theli ocal meeting Irom their local clan questi
Alumni Invited to
Industries Smkr
ELLIOTTS 
4010 Fifth Ave. 
.Store is Convenient 
for Students 
Supplies
rchandtee required
with, low prices 
Engineer Supplies Artists1 Materials Technical Books .
. Still Canterai
iboutd be addressed tAndreAlumni SecMiss
' Institute of Technc Pittsburgh, Pa. All informal ilano or dates ehould also be n as soon ae possible. 1 Nov jr. Overends progress will tubllshed from time' to time.
.The first atop on lhe I rip 16 Cleveland,, after which Mr. Ov< 
end will go to Detroit; other poir hie Itinerary are: Wednesday, January 1!), Chicago; Thursday, 
January 20, Milwaukee;' Fritlay, 21, Chicago; Monday to Wednesday, January 24-26, San Francisco; Thursday, .January 27. to Wedni day, February 2, Los Ang6les; Si urdfty, February 5,-Tulsa; Mondf February 7, St, BSJU89  Tuesday, February 8, Cincinnati.
Section, which 1
j Theatre Tips
STRAND THEATRE
Patrons of the Strand Theatre, Oakland, have a very Interesting program ahead of them this com* lag week, starting. Wednesday and Thursday, , with. "Whispering starring Anita Stew an<\ Edmond Burns, in a mans if horrors. A demented crimii In the basement, working ieshly with hie instruments ot death.- Even better, than the play. Friday . 'and Saturday, . Colleen her latest TwinkleCollleen as. the,famous r. and the idol of. the she is known as The greatest role oi Monday and -Tuesday, Bebe - Daniels In Stranded In Paris. Ths story of a working girt wins a free ticket to. Paris, ro she 16 robbed.' Dont miss thevgreat excitement that follows. Selected comcdiea and* news events with each change of features.
, whei
MANOR THEATRE
& Clarks >urwonder
ful pictures - this coming week, starting Wednesday and  day, with Zano Greys Man Foraat," starring Jack Holt, made ZaneGrey fas the high Sierras ot Caltfori 
day Rod La Roque in " the story of na American who turns Glgolla or 'professional dancing man In order to earn a living in Paris after the war. Saturday KoTTnn Shearer and Oscar Shaw in Upstage," a story of the life behind the stage, its. joys, its sorrows. Monday and Tuesday Bebe Daniels in Stranded
Thea free .trip to -obbed. Be sure see the excitement that.' fol Selected comedies and news o with each change of feature.
SCHENLEY
ter,- Forbes street', Oaktand trict, in lhe program which has beet arrangedby .General' Mans ger Harry Davis for presentation during, the coming week. Monday and-/ Tuesday. January 17 and 18 
brings the clever comedy.- "Mai Balt," with. Marie Prevoet, K.et neth Thomson and Douglas . Fall -banks, jr.. In the principal rolei The-- attraction -'Wednesday ' and Thursday.- January ly and 20
ALUMNI PAGE
.Ve wiSSe:TESTIMONIAL FOR 
YODER A SUCCESS
Pittsburgh Clan Elects 
John D. Beatty New. . 
President
OVEREND PRESIDES
rhe testimonial luncheon ten-ed Lloyd Yoder on Saturday by 
the rejuvenated Pittsburgh Clan, ras a decided ucce6s. About ono hundred and forty, enthusiastic Pittsburgh alumni gathered In tho English room oC the Fort Pitt Hotel to do honor to this years great captain oi our - great team. The itlierlug Included about a dozen 
of ox-co-eds. - Buddjr Overend presided in. 
place of R. M. Walton, president of.' the Pittsburgh cion, who was unto attoud. Others at the 
speaker's table beside Buddy and Yoder were CoL Church, Fred 
Cogswell, and J. F. Labooi
ited IS contribute a epeclm iis urt work for .the AJumni Issue if Puppet, which will be releused iDout March 1.
Science Stag Draws Alumni; 
Al Minetti Entertains,
tho
Smoker. February 4. This an 
illusively Industries, event 
on u place of importance on ompue. and l.t was -thought why oftho ol bming back t
ijoy'this affair, which I the stage ot per, has now attained, alumni stunt will 
bf arranged;The Science Stag^proved. a drawig caTd foT alumni and many ere present Saturday , night. -A! Minctti . provided the. alumni porof the entertainment.
GLEE CLUB TO SINGIN STATE CONTEST*AT MEMORIAL HALL
(Continued mFom Kage One) Intercollegiate Musical Corpo ipets in th Nalloi 
ConteoL :h Cliib will he represented by 30 men with their leader rill direct them In the singing of three-selections. One sf willi be ot their own chl< the ,PrJ2e* sing, and one  College Stong! The cholco songa will, sleeted by the competing .col: 
and must be of high mu6ic ; the College Song will be 
typical college song ot the school:ed, : and 1PrizeHi be The Lotus Flower which ecelved the.honora in 1927.The judging of the songs will be based on a .scale of. 100, will be imputed as follows: the choice ng will receive. 30 pointa; th< rize" song, 50 points; and tb< College Song, .20 points. The, numHI b& judged latlon, e 
pretatlon end pitch 111 be named as honorable mention.
>rdlni
, interbo The Third Degree, based:elebrated ' speaking eUige; play by Charles Klein, and featuring Dolores Costello, Louise Rockllffe Fellowes, Kate Price and Thomas Santchl. Nor ma Shearer, scintillating alar, - it her latest - brilliant achievement 
Upstase. will , bo the attracltoi Friday, and Saturday, January 21 and 22.. A special stage offerint throughout the week will tie th< Savoy Revuej a talent
Alumni Issue of Puppet 
To be Released in March
Former Staff Hemben ' Asked 
To Submit Material
well :faculty.
Yoders All-Amei tlflcate was passed around during 
ie iuncheon, so that every one id a close up of this signed testlony of Yoders ability.Befiore introducing the speakers, Buddy apqke of lhe purpose of tbe gathering, and expressed the wish that tho Pittsburgh clan would bein the alumni organization. He thon read several -urns and letters. A letlei John L. Porter, who was to have been present, explained .that, ie was 'not .able to be there, but pressed his wishes and conxatulaUons to Yoder and ' the 
ilumni: A telegram of congi
Tbe Puppet stair Is planning to 
sue nn Alumni Number of Pup
pet this year. ' This idea will offer 
!Scellent opportunity for old 
grads, alumni and former students 
break Into.print and 
glorify their old campus publics. 
Ion with specimens of artistic art 
vork and examples oi inspirational 
iditorial material for the go<! of arnegle Letters already have been 6ent out to former staff memrs and cr6lwhile ' contributoru ith special Invitations to coutrlbo wlintever they like for this imber.. This, however, does not ;clude non-sta([ membera from submitting material. All alumni quested to send in controbuart, editorial or otherwise ispectivc contributors would > sea somo back issues of Puppet lor ideas or suggestions, these be secured by writEditor-in-chief, caro Puppet ofilce. Tlie Alumni Issue ill probably be released some no in Marcb, but all material, to published, should be in by Maivb 1. No special inducements should bo necessary .to convince
latlon:i tho Soi
clon, o
 first apeak Colonel Church, w ?3tlng storJee
bodied ii himself > he vet> his
Yoder's . t: as then call modestly a 
achic
i callfoi
lauded Wally Steffen and the ot ;he team. Fred Cogswul! cently appointed on the Can institute board ot trustees, et ed the fact that Yoder was only a wonderful player himself, but was doubly great for his ability to inspire the team  as he 
did in the past season. John Laboon added.his word of praise for Yoder, and then put in of word for Budy Overend's part in putting
Entertainment was provided by the Aadeans, . popular Camegh 
Tech orchestra,  who provided tbe music end-of the program. Twi 
reel* of movies were shown, in eluding, .scenes from Campu
gle, and viewE the ttlon against Pitt and Notre Dam Election of new officers took place at the meeting, with 'following results: president, J. D,Beatty, head of the Placement Bu reau.at Carnegie; vice preBlcent, BUI ' Sklnkle: aocretary treasurer, 
Buddy Ovorend. With these new officers and a good start, the Pittsburgh-clan expects to have an actost
dans, featurlug Bob Carter, dancer aordlnary. The . feature . pic;Monday and Tuesday, Jana24 and 25, will be a massive thrill , production,- Spangles," an .mazing, comedy., drama ot life beilud the sconce of th circus. Pat O'Malley and Marian Nixon have, the romantic roles. The bill will be completed by comedies, news reels and novelty films. The, program Is completely changed eacli Monday, Wednes
day and Friday. Parking space tor motors -Is plentiful at the Theater and performances are. continuous each day from 2 to 11 p. m.
CAMEO
 foreIn the TiJTaoy product! lee Days,J by A. P. Youi adapted Brown of Hai y the.6creen, are assembled most college gridiron etars whohave made football history, .......The. collogiana were used to show their skill In the great football game, one pt the eitcltlug features of the story ofcollege life. During .the playing of the
ties; thei playing as if tbe r Alma Mater de."Collegc Days" is the fea< attraction., at the Cameo The commencing on January 17 . Io
:iINCOi.S FO: MeN iNS WOMeN
Mens, $6 00Color: Grey.
Women's, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and red.Aufhammer and Evans' 6100 PENN AVENTTi
(Continued from Page One) new lines At again captured a the one-man popularity contest The Faculty stunt, directed by ProfessorPorter, was once m big feature of the evening with ita "Laboratory Quartet and' historic news reel. r. 'No one needed-a second invitation to adjourn to the Commons at 
this time to enjoy the tasty luncheon provided tor by the Stag Committee. Mtnetti -Benin look the stage and made the awards M victors in the popularity coi The closing event of the evenlug was the presentation of the best
honors last
CLAN NEWS
3T. LOUIS
'deration consisting of the 
Atunml of 83 colleges ie.in process formation in St. Louie, being 
promotod by the Coronado Hotel. On January 10 a groiip of officers the various Alumni groups 
mtertaind at a luncheon' by the Hotel and the plane presented' and commented 
Those present -were as folMr. Carmichael oC Illinois, 
Mr.' Ebbs of Wisconsin,' Mr. Drew of tlie University ot Georgia, Mr. McClain of the University , of CorII, Mr. Henn of Ames. Mr. Carleo or Kansas, Mr. SWeetxer of Dine, Mr. Jones of Stamford, Mr. 
Warnke of Nebraska, Mr. Coffey of iseourl, Mrs. Street ot Oberlain. id Mr. Zeller of Carnegie.It was agreed to fit up a pershent intercollegiate' room whew1 v various college 'groups can ild their meetings. This room will also contain a complete file ape and magazines as pubid by tho 83 collges. There loo a directory in which aro d the names and addresses of all alumni members in <S1. Louis.voted to have an lection illegiat officers on Moni Urnthe]I for this number, but nil
hing, will be r 
:omplimentaiy
them for tho.rei
(Conti
BASKETBALL
med From Page One) tent, as was shown by the action when hostilities, were renewed 
The first onnishes'^bf the Panthei were fearful an.q if he had noi Lopped by a few well placed; thiBiuld ha'i'dlf:rerent tone. The contestants iocked horns or whatever deadly rivals arc supposed to lock, and the very hilsldes vibrated fro.m t^eir strenuous efforts. A few vicious jabs to the Panther: vitals and from that moment or the poor creature was fighting foi bis life. It was a cold evening; the Scotch garb is more plctur esque Ihan it is warming, po fate decided, that tbe .Panther musi lose' its skin. A final effort on th< huntsmen's part and - the Panthei lay stiff and stark.' There wen no cose pimples on Scotch kneei &at;eYening testifying to the ex cellent insulating value of PantherBkln. .A eloee relative ot the-dece Panther perhaps a couBln, vowedto revenge his klnsn \euth. It is understood hat this edition of the Panther is so vicious tbat bo will invade Scotch terrl' tory to wreak his vengeance < February^.'
Meanwhile Little Washlngti tonight in im attempt to bring back the scalps of those twe ous presidents, Washlngtoi Jefferson. Thirteen Umee theyhav<:ed toibis'
; Jam 17.
AlluiBall
held in February at (he Coronado Hotel, invitnlions for this ball be isuud to botween three nnd thousand alumni. Alumni inted in the possibility of attending this ball should watch in for iurtfcer. announcements
otherdellni
YOUNGSTOWN 
The dinner dauco given 1 enn State and^. Carnegie lumni Thursday evening ijsted: 42 couples.Robei
resident of each club. R. L. ichor, president of the Car, Tech group, spoke in the in
terests of his school and L. B. Grlndley, president of Penn State, spoke for bis college. Elmer T. McClearj and B. M. Stubbloileld were other speakers. Cards and dancing  were enjoyed and at bridgo Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Fogg were winners.A similar affair ia planned for 
the spring.
PITTSBURGH.
The Pittsburgh Clan, in line with other dane throughout the country,. has instituted the custom of haying weekly luncheons.. -These are' held In lb& Kaufmann & Baer Restanrant .everyMonday at 12:00 odock. Alumni in Pittsburgh at this time are Invited to 
attend. 'i!;..
1917, and 13 times the 
failed. Surely those scalps now. Lineup for Pitt game: Bravo, Carnegie]Car. Tech, 25. U. of Pitt, 2i.Amans .............F........... McGillWhite .......... ..F. KowalUa (A.C.)Harpstor __...C..........  Rlhanelt
Lynch ...............G............. HobahHurd (C) . .:..Q___ ... Fisher
by period:TechPitt1915 <*24Substitutions: PittWroblcskifor McQJll. Reed for Woban, Mc
Mahon -tor Rlhanek, Rlhanek tor Rccd. TechCrum Tor Amans. Hitchcock for Hurd, Amans for CrumField goals: PittWroblesUl 2, Kowallls 1.. ltihanek 5, Reed 2.TechAmans 2, White 3, Horpster 5, Lynch 1.
Fouls: PittWrobleekl 2 out oi4, Rihanclt 1 out of 2, of 2. TechWhite
. A. U. W.
(Continued from Page One) Byle for the College of Fine Arts, and Altco Riblett for the women in the dormitories.This entertainment has become a yearly affair. .It 1s sponsored by Carnegie. Tech, the University of Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania College for Womeu, and. its purpose Is to enable high ,school girls to get a glimpse of campus life and an idea of the several colleges of tlie city. The girls visit a different institution each year and are the guests of the dass that will be seniors the year that these high 
school girts enter college. The freshmen girls will be hostesses .on Saturday.
UmpireLeo McGIlnchy.
. (Continued From Page One.) Adagio Scherzo:
 Paul Kleylc. AccompanistLucille Burrell.- A recital wasvheld in the Little Arts Theator lafct-Sunday evening.' Janunry. : 10. ---Tbe admlealqn to these recitals-is tree.
- Both ; new'and old tudenta should note thatthey oen get urt* uaual fountain pen ervlee-by eall. 
Ing - at .th -branch ttore of Slnoer Pen and Olft Shep. No. 4M1 Sorbet atraett-ftehenley Apartment -bloek, or the Main Mare In Jenk* Ina Arcade.
(Continued from Page One).of Fin Arts. Perrctc.n is business manager of the Tartan this year, >g been on the staff for four ind bas Wen particularly
ot the Arts Ball. ,
In addition to his prominence In campus activities, Red has consistently won recognition . tirom th< Beaux Arts Institute of Design fo: hie architectural . work.
Perret'on has already begun u formulate his plans for 'the eveni and the faculty is supporting him in every possible Carneglea 'best Campus Weert.The chainwill sL bis
WILL OPEN THIRDM. AND V, INSTITUTE. THIS AFTERNOON
(Continued From Page One) men. .-In the two laboratories ot the department an set up model bathrooms and  exhibits oC air tbe goods used In'the three allled'lndustriee, -which are-manufactured In the Pittsburgh district Admission for students and faculty to 
these lecture* and exhibits willbe
NEW TRIO TOPLAY AT PROMNEXT FRIDAY
. (Continued From Page One) . entertainer, and his .imputation as a singer has been well earned.' He baa been In orchestra work since an early ago and ie one of the few leaders ' who nave been able to maintain thelr^ early popularity.
With most of the work by the committees finished, only the gen
eral chairman, Alyin Brown; .tho publicity committee, to which O. Lu Selbort and W. L. Wlmer were 
recently added; and ' tire ticket sales committees, have unfinished tasks, and these only because of their uature, for. these men have worked. hard and earnestly to Insure a successful Prom. The ticket salea committees consist of the following men: Arts SchoolD.McClure, Crawford,. J. Horner, J. 
Graham-and M. Stump; College of industriesJ. B. Co*, J. Auatraw, Clyde McKee and John Brooks; 
ScienceDon Cftllen, J. M. Sherman,i R K. Foliansbee and Donald
(Continued, from Pago One) McClure, Ruth Aston, Mary Shaw, Ruth Perrott, ClaritaStevens, Michel Blisstlno and Josephioe Co-pa-'Wally Poyntz. hae written two jazz numbers for the show, and they are very warm.: On the other hand, Josephine McGrall has a dared to musical heights in the composition of her love theme.The show* glrls of the chorus charge of Vic Eskerf are showing plenty of talent under his : tutelage.Several interesting stories
inch
with the show, attractions will be a lady 'who stands six feether <hose. She
.VewiV S: tV* AtmetiSe
- (Eplacopat)Corner Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street H. BOYD' EDWARDS, Rector E. L;TifTany, Associate Rector ' Sunday-Seryltes:- 8 a. m.1,'Holy Communion.11 a.. m.. MornJng Prayer "and'Sermon'. * ' .4:30: p. -m.. Vesper Service
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde 'Street, Near Fifth Avenue , Sunday. 11 A. M. and 8 P, M. i . Wednesday, 8 P. M..ol, 11 A. f
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACE FOR 
SNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
. 4618/2 FORBES STREET
Let's  Go To TheTECH
Barber Shop
For Our Hair Cuts 
CBAIOr AND 
FOEBES
Vanities." and she tells how she began her rise to fame. One. day.she eaid to her father,' Pa, I can. dance.* Her father doubtfully said, Prove it." Whereupon sbe. broke'. Into the exotic rhythmb of/the Russian Black* bottom, which will be' repealed at the' show. .Late'night owle. have tell of the girl of the beautiful complexion. They weepNae they recite the tale of the staggering milkman, overladen withbottles. , as he delivers them at the young ladys do^m. The secret Is milk haths at 6 every morning. Bhe will also be In theahof.    . v. The .second, attendance, held last Thursday, o; was a ^ success from every point of view.. .its purpose, to. help the Plebe* get.acquainted was .adequately, carried further help along these lltoei
be cared In thta manser.
MORE CORONAS 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE OF POHTABLE
I typewritten. Yoi
bigotheionly $60.00.j (n used Cor nas as low ae $25.00. STANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
129*F(FTH AVENUE 
' Atlantic 0342 .
Of course you can go to
EJJROPE
a Scotland, ogimd, Hoi* hnd,BcIgiiiiaFniice,Gtiinany, * ad and Italy. Juaeti >r^-$485 up. ; ; #
GATES
Q2WkY225 Fifth Ave., N.-Y.
Cliff :estaurant
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Try our Special Lunchet
willentitle-you to a 60c dinner. 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:30-8:CO P. M.
TRY OUR 35o LUNCH 
.Special Pastries with Fraternity letters for. occasiona:
Shorall's Tea YSSNS
371D FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9318
4605 FORBES ST. (Near Crale)
Came
FIFTH AVENUE, Downtown
(OLIEBE
f THREE COLLEGE f NIGHTS
Oakianti 
Savings & .rust 
Company i
Member Federal 
Reserve System,
"The Oakland Bank"
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----$300,000.00
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
BEAUTY 
ROMANCE 
ADVENTURE
with
MARCELINE DAY 
CHARLES DELANEY 
DNA^MURPHY 
JAMES HARRISON 
KATHLEEN KEY , 
BROOKS BENEDICT 
DUANE THOMPSON 
. GIBSON GOWLAND 
and'25 Univmity Football Sow
STANLEY-flOWLAND-CLARKS
STRAND
Anita Stewart
Friday and Saturday
Colleen Moore
Sebe Saniels
MANOR
"MAN OF THE FORESr1
JA.K HOLT
Igola
HOD LA ROQUE
Upstage
NORMA SHEARER
GET STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
r Floor and1' Balcony26o. 
Mezzanine39o
continuous z to 11 P. M. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager Most Beautiful Neighborhood Thoater In Pittsburgh.'
 WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 19 AND 20 
The Third Degreefrom Charles Kleln'e cetebratod. stage play, with 
DOLORES COSTELLO, LOUISE DRESSER, ROCKLlFFE FEU, LOWES, KATE .PRICE, THOMAS SANTCHIFRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JANUARY 21 AND'22
Norma Shearer
wth OSCAR SHAW DOROTHY PHILLIPS WARD CRANE in
UPSTAGE
ON THE STAGE ~ ^ ALL WEEK
The Savoy Revue
:Clever Ensemble ef Yeuttiful - Artists In . Proorspi: of Singing, i'-Oencing-pntf instrumental Music, featuring BOB . CARTER, the'  Prince, of.Fast.Steppers.- "v  
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, JANUARY 24 AND'2S
SPANGLES, Massive, Thrilling, Orania of Life Behind-the -Scenes o/ a Clrcua-'
MARIAN NIXON,.PAT O'MALLEY, HOBART BOSWORTH,' tiLAOYS BROCKW8LL and atliera. 

---------------------------------------------------

Talo( ln U)o Carnegie, Union. 
The chmlcal engineering lectores 
wlU Tje'JeUvercd at 8:30 la 'oom
d (he performance or his tea credit on his coaching ability. Few lo;iG team relying instead on .a pawing attack or penetrating the Pitt five man defense.
WITH VICTORIES over Pitt Id three varsity sports it beg look like a Carnegie Year: Already victories have been von li ball and cross country, and the first basket ball game Is safely s away.. Last year. Pitt cleaned up in football, basket ball, cross ci
man been, ejected from tbe
Carlshould bay
, bad not Bond and <3111-
With material like that. Coach
THE ADDITION of th. schedule, replacing Notre
Oregon sehool Is ranked a: Coast, and it Is a real horn card.
WhUi
. leading football 1
i that ( the
To all men who make a 
hobby of pipes
iV1bNR you've spent half your life and 
fortun on this old, hobbycollecting 
everything from peace-pipes down to the 
latest L and Maia1' underslung. Maybe 
you know the pipe encyclopedia from 
amber Americanus t Zula zuago.
But*ff you re a pipe sm^er. yo learned 
long ago that no matter how much a 
man may know about pick pipes and 
pipe tricks what he gets out of any pipe 
depends on what he puts in it.
And if you know your tobaccos,,you 
know that any pipes a sweeter smoke 
when packed with grand and glorious 
old Granger Rough Cut.1.-. The finest 
Burley that grows, mellowed Wellmans 
way and 'specially cut for pipes. . .
, A man may have a hundred pipes but  
he needs only one tobacco... and that's 
Granger. For whether you put it in a 
meerschaum or a corn-cob, Granger is al'
. ways the same cool, sweet tobacco, 
worthy of.any pipe in the world.
GRANGER
Anita Sie
Granger Rough Cut is rriadeby the Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
featcd West Virginia in a nutcli fired attbe respective .Institutions 
luring Uie week ending .January 8; tbe scored' belpg tolegvaphed.' Th<i scores were: Carnegie. 1859; West Virglnid, 1628. Thie ia an Improvement over last year's, scons, which wen:. Carneglo,' 1826; We gloa, 1809.A. M. Fisher was high scorer, with a scon; which approaches that' which he is ordinarily capable of making. His good slicoting is going to be an aid to tbe team.The Hneup3 were: . /For Carnegie1. Fisher, A. M........\........... 3S32. Bctyno ................'..........37G3. Weatherell . ................... 3734. Sweadner ...o. Park ...........
Total ..........G. Cole ............
7. Cuthbert ....8. Eichelberger,,Shlrey ......JO. AfcConnghey.
For West Virgii
. 363
. Rinehart ............................................................................. 368
. Miller ................. 354Pike .;............................. 354
. Barb ............................... 34610. Thnyer ...........................343Carnegies score was a , little ower than that of the M. T. T. natch in Decomber, but this was 
argely due to Lhe fact that or. hooting had beon done since the natch before the Christmas vacatlon.
This Is. the Age of Specialization
routh Is attending College 1 
IT IS WITH US 
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
DayGrant 2604PHONE NightLafayette 4791-R
to be
Plebe Quint Defeats Gen
eva; Losses-to Piit Frosb
Last Friday evening on the P1U 
Stadium Pavilion floor, lhe Plebe cagors' were overwhelmed by, the fierce attack of, the Panther yearlings, losing by the one-sided score 
of 51 to 19.
The whistle, bad hardly blown, when Hartman dribbled ilowa through tho entire Pitt team, and made a basket, giving tbe Plaid the lead in 'scoring. During the
tuck, first one team forging ahead and then tho other. At half time the score stood aL 23-14 in favor of Pitt. Tho game at this polnlwas not as ouo-sldod as U might seem, for though Pitt was sloodily toreInsofar.ahead, the3ilbosvhad.notbeen entirely Idle, and the. game looked to be either team's. The second half proved disastrous, for the, PlobSB bail apparently spent themselves against the superior weight and height of their adversaries. PUt bad no trouble from then on. apparently being able to score at .will. When tho final whistle blew Lhe. score stood at 
fil to i?.
Haii highId, scoring four field goals. Brown completed.the field goal scoring for the Sfaiboa, by annexing one in the early part of the game. ' Pounders played on excellent guard game throughout the
' Arthurs was tho outstanding star of the game, accounting for *lght ot Pitts Held goals, and play
that It would give the Pitt vavslty a. run for its mouey. Every man on the. team: stands .well over six 'feet, . end with their superior weight they proved more than a:
ArthuiReglsihbaugh SubstitutionsMoritz for Reglstcrer. Field goalsHyatt 6, kpv hen 5. Arthars'8, MorlLz 2, Ashbaugh. Hartman 4, Drown: FoulgoalsPitt, 7 out of 11; Tech, i out of 15. RefereeMcGlinchy.The Carucgle Tccb Plebea won thilv opening .game last Tuesday evening when "they outclassed the Geneva Reserves, 31-19. Tlio pfobcs were pressed at times dur
with their passing and' shooting. Bro^'ti and Gammell featured, the 
former on the attack and the locter, with .a brilliant, defeiise. The lineup: s
IJlebes31. Reserve19..Mesnick
FA TRONIZE . QUE ADVERTI SERS
Hartman . pond 
Pouuders GmihU :.
.SubstitutionsRan for Barnes, tunean tor Rau, Rau for Duncan, innon for Hecker, .McElroy for
We Have Learned That it i*
KisseF: Skiles Rent a Car Service
For All Occaiions
THREE STATIONS 
. 6107 Broatl 4trMt -   MS With AvtniMHlland 1300 Grant 1900
125 Seventh Street Student Passee Issued at\ Atlantic 4M Tartan Offlce
last lew' inlnuteB of play by. the Geneva College quintet, 29 to 22.Carneglo started off like a we: old ' machine' uncorking an offerse which ran up a 9 to 0 lead In the first threo minutes ot play. Thi Geneya players were unablo to get bold ol the ball during Uio opening period. The fiist half ended with 
Carnegie leading 15 to 12.back strong Jn the i with live i 
Then Hubenstein and Clarke sc field goals and' Dcuce .mude foul points.Harpslcr, who has beon on tho dick list, was back in the game, placing Kalloch at centcr In the jocond half. Lynch, who whs luJurcd In the West Vlrgiula game, was :ilso bock In the lineup.Hubenstein was the outstanding star of the game, his scoring, which tfas as sensational as it was badly needed, coupled with Merrimaos stellar defensive playing.- contributed tho major portion of tho victory.
For Carnegie." Amans and White played especially well, with the rest of tho team coming In or u large 6haro of tbe urodltFriday evening, January 14. Tech will have an opportunity lo rodcem her two defeats'when she meets Pitt In the openlug contest of tho annual ' three game series. The game will be played oh tbe Pitt Stadium court. The Plebee of both school9 will meet In the pre*
Lineup:
Hubenstein ........F............Amans
Frlef.Wh
...C...........Kal'.ochirke (Capt.1... .G. .Hurd (Copt.)oerlck ...........G.........HitchcockScore by psirinrtsGeneva ................'....12 620Carucgie ..........:.v....l6 722
SubstitutionsBruce for RubenEtoiu, Staulter for HurC, Hubenstein for Bruce, H<irp;<ter for Kalloch. Lvnck Tor StnulTer, Stmiiler 
for Hifchcotk. , Klclrt goalsRubenateln 6. Meiriman. Clnrke 2. Emerlck, Amnns s. White, Hurd. Hitchcock. H.irpster, Kalloch. sFoulaGeneva, 8 ont of 14;'carnegle. 4 out of 11.'RefereeBuck Stiyder.
WOMENS RIFLE TEAM 
DEFEATS W.'VA. 497-489
other college team hna bowed he Caruegle Women'B Rifle Tenm. Last, week the girls' -fired i match with West Virginia co-eds inti won by the core of '497 out ot i pcTslblo 500 while their opponents score was 489 points.
The' totiai score Is taken from the urn of the five highest scordB of a o&m of ten. Tbe Carnegie marksvumen and their Individual scores ire as follows:1. Ruth Dawson .................'. 1002. Vlrg*nla Rose .......... ... iOO3. Jean Roy ..................... 994: Florence Shapiro ........ : 9U5 ' Eunice Wyman  .............. 99
Total score ...............4976. Alice' Bright... .............. 937. Helen Bright ............... 9*K Eunice Clark ................ 979 Barbara Ren wick ....... 95.0 Catherine Boyd . ......... 92The scores of the West Virginia sam and the nartlclnants:1.. Elizabeth Rupert ......... 1002. Marie Suter ......... 983. llefcocca Allen .......... 9B4. Virginia Hill ................................................................. 975.- Naomi Dushman .......... 96
otal 489
TaneSeabrlght ........ 96Lois Mctjualu ............... 933uholastlca Gazdlsh ...... 92G*fts Molli ...................... 9110. Christine Arnold 91This week the girls are firing or ;he Intercolleglatc Champloaihlp sponsored by the National Rifle Asoclatlon. If they continue ake the high scoves they have In their, meets so fax theywell <ivd theif tho list
A CHALLENGE;
Alpha Tau,' national ' istlc honorary fraterni he College f Industrie:
K'eviMs, Barlow for McKenney. 
Penny for j:au. Field goals Brown 5. H^rtmsrt' 2. Bond 2 Pounders 2, Gammell 3.. Mesnick 4, Hucker 2, Kevins 2. Foul goals rPlebes, 3 out at 11; Reserves, 3 out of 7, RefereeMsrriman,
NOTICE. FRESHMEN'
present squad is *  very small and there is pl,en-. * 
;.ty of opcwrluity fr anyne < '.with previous experience to 4-  eBrn - numerals. Report t -* Coach. Allison any eveulng at +  five oclock. lt^ the gym! ;  4*
At Oberlin College a committee was recently organizedto - see what-could be done to m&tae the college more attractive to men. In order-.to increase male attendance.
' Co.i;\pgle Techs football team 
will' play the Oregon Agglea on 
November 2tJ, 1987, lu Portland, 
Ore., according to au nnnounc> 
moat made by Buddy Overend tho 
lutter part of lost week. The de
cision yto play th lmporint game was reached by theCarnegie Athletic CouUol in a special meeting. Buddy Overend was largely responsible /or the scheduling of the gnifl. lie had to get the Facultys approval, frhtch in itself was  very difficult task, because tho 
Faculty ' would  consent to the schcilullug of the game only when they received each player's prom
ise that he would make an extm effort to keep up in bis studies.
The contoat will take the place on the Carnegie schedule which was held last season by Notre' Dame. Tho trip to the coast will be boguu on Sunday,' November 20, the day following the Detroit Uni verslty game. The squad is sched* uled to arrive in Portland.on Wednesday night, November. 23. and rotura home on Wednesday, November 30.
Owing to tho faci tbat practicably all tho timo consumed on tho trip will bo. during the Thonksglving.vacatlon. very little school, will 
be missed. A ruling at school prohibits the players from being away for more than'four days during the regular season.'
The signing of the Oregon gamo. 
will Ukcly be received with high favor by Carnegie' followers' throughout the country. It ie only nnotber indication of tho high place the Tartans ocupy in tho notional coUeglalo toolbul! world. Oregon, under -the coaching of Paul J. SchlsFier, ranks as one of the loadais in the Puoiflc 1Ib260 ContOTfnc. It has the lftrgest student body of any school In the state of Oregon, having at least four thousand students whereas Oregon University has about twehty-ilve Iiur.drod,
(Contlauea trom rage one.) odeni Views on Deformation ol Metals1 and "Diffusion In Solids." In addition to these lectures, ie second annual course , of lighting discussions is being held during the month of January by the ltgio Institute of, Technology mnjunctlon'.with the .Electric League of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh Chapter of the Illuminating Engineering Society.. Those which not yet been given ave: "Comial, Ofllcs and Public building Lighting," by Mr. A. B. ODay, enginecr In the Edlsbn Lamp Works, General Eljclric Company, which 
scheduled. Cor Thursday, January 21; -"Display Windows, Show Case
Flood Lighting, by SG: Hlbbon. 
manager ol Commercial Engineering department, Wcstlnghouse Lamp Company, on Tuesday.'January 26; . and "Street Lighting and Trftlhc ^Control, .by Hr. C. A. B. Halvoison, designing' : engineer .
Cenemi Electric Company. Jonu* aiy S7.
Accordine ;o tho aunouncoD:ent no carde of udmlsslon are .requtred to attoud any of th dlscusalens. Tho Taylor, Wood and Desch lectures wlll be' given at S:30 each.
letters of 
reconmiendation'
/
EXPERIENCED ppe-smokerd from Cape Lisbume to Cape Sable (get out y our map of North 
America!). recommend P. A, to you as the 
finest tobacco that ever lined th bowl of a pipe* 
You'll check*in with their recommendation.
Why, the instant you swing back the hinged 
lid on the tidy red tin, your olfactory nerve reg
isters a fragrance like that of a pine-grove on a 
damp morning. And when you tuck a load of 
this wonderful tobacco into your pipe  say* 
Mister!
Cool as Cape Lisburne, mentioned above* 
Sweet as the plaudits of a first-night audience. 
Mild as morning in Cape Sable. (That's working-in. tlie old geography!) Mild, yet with a 
full tobacco body that completely satisfies your 
smoke-taste. Buy some Prince Albert today and make the test!
/rince Albertj no other tobacco is like itl
i toil/ iCMrim te
i
What he didnt learn 
at coiieee
I In his class work, 
Lawrence Day 
Howell, Prince
ton, Litt. B. 13, 
E. E. 19, never 
I heard of marine 
applications for 
iiowBLi electrical, equip
ment. In /act, they Were prac
tically unknown. Yet he now is 
in charge of the Marine Section, 
Transportation Division, of the 
Westinghouse Sales Depart
ment, located at New York.
When Howell came from col
lege to the Westinghouse Grad
uate -Students Course, he. had . 
. twelve months of thorough
going work in the shops at East 
Pittsburgh. Then he decided 
he wanted to enter the field 
which seemed most undeveloped
 Vjp What's tht futuri with a 
^ large organization?" That 
it what {dlege men want to knoto, 
first of all. The question is hist 
. answered by the accomplishments 
of others-with similar training 
and liie opportunities. This ii 
one of a series of advertisement, 
portraying the progress at fPeJtinghouie of college graduates, 
of the campus some Jiveeight
and perhaps most promising 
of broad expansion. This was 
marine: engineering.
Not five per cent of the pres
ent opportunities on the water, 
have been opened for electrifica
tion. Yet there is more horse
power, in prime movers, on the 
ocean than there is on the land.
In Howell's undergraduate
's, this field was scarccly 
scotchedjust as radio' Was:not 
known to many young engineers 
when they, were in college. A 
college mans opportunities are 
'not limited to the electrical de. velopments now in existence.
In marine applications an or
der may assume large propor
tions. A single installation, 
negotiatedby Howell recently, 
of the newly-developed Diesel. 
electric drive for a yacht, totaled 
175,000. Such sales are not 
made overnight. They .result 
from understanding fully a cus
tomers needs. ' \ . *
To men. with the knack of 
taking the other -fellow's point 
of view, & carecr as Sales Engi: neer at .Westinghouse brings re
turns in personal satisfaction as - 
well, as in worldly-reward.
Westinghouse

---------------------------------------------------

MOKI KATFLOWIB HMa lsotoiIv6rv*r wk tbe'eolWc* ** bj oAr-^dotUj PJoD TtehnoMr. EUnd I tfc* -
. .-''.> EDITORIAL STAFF "
EdltoMo-Chler  ............Merrill HolltuheadManaging Editor........................................Sam WeUNew* Editor.........................................Franela KolbAthletic Editor................. . .. .FrederlckD. Woods
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Ellenor Tallmadge Robert M. Pe'-'Russell Bollinger Ralph Hltcbo A .E.. .Flsher
Harold Jacobson Harto GrlfflssEogene Scanlon .
JUNIOR' EDITORS.............Meredith Stump Milton CohenFenton Finn _ v Jean R07
ALUMNI EDITORS Margaret Russell Herbert Grau 'JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
; McLaughlin Helen Reed .Josephine Clark.Charlea Hartung
Joseph O.' RlUer - Miriam Margolis Malcolm Gaj Harr7 Wldom . Henry Buuker Clyde Park Cyril Letzelter.
Nte* ofMuaicBy Allan V. Nern
Hundreds of. the students and 
faculty - patroulze the concerts llsted-ln this column.every week, yet only a small percentage-attend 
the tne Sunday ' evening recitals gives periodical/ by the-students of the Department o!-Music la the 
Little Theater of the College ol its.
Last'llghtfuripTbgiim^aa'presented' ore an attentive and intelligent 
ludlence, but 'the number of
Circulation - Manager.
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sachs - G. W. Brahmst J. R. BrownH. Kandell A. Teplllz HL MarshalB. Wedoer - - C: E. Blaas , ,M.' Maltaick
Where's my Wandering boy to day 
He's 5one io take a Qui 7 . 
s Wever Mln^ Mother Dear  
"tie's StuJleJ Zery Hard"
EDITORIAL COMMENT
In the next issue of the Tartan the Contribs 
and Comments" column will be devoted to a 
discussion of our student General Assemblies. 
The editors suggest this topic for tlie coming 
issue, as several people have been asking for a 
general discussion. The assemblies are poorly 
attended, especially by uppcrclassraen, many 
of whom acknowledge that they havent at
tended an assembly this year, dismissing the' 
whole question with a Well, they dont do 
anything down there when we-do go."
So all those of the student and faculty bodies 
who hove anything interesting to contribute on 
the subject suggested will be riven' space on 
tho hack page of this paper to voice, their ideas. 
Address all contributions to the Carnegie 
Tartan," and drop them in the post office in 
Central Building as soon as possible.
From time; to time the editors will suggest 
topics for discussion in this student column, to 
aid contributors and readers alike. All letters 
should be sigued, but the, names of the senders 
will he withheld upon request.
We jolly pass riders" have lately hecn 
subjected to a species.of . excitcment known to 
the kings of Big Business as the Advertising 
Campaign. For the past week wo have been 
the innocent victims of a huge vulgar attempt 
to wheedle the street car public into elevating 
the weekly pass to the same position iii its life 
which the flintlock and the family Bible oc-' 
cupied in the life of the Pilgrim Fathers. And 
I hereby wish to testify that there has never 
been spread before the people a more irritating 
<irray of nonsense in the -whole history of Bab
bitry; than-this recent outburst, planned at 
best to be an artificial stimulus toinerease the. 
ale of the' pass, turned out to be amusing, an
noying, and downright offensive in turn; and finally that the ditty:
 Wheres my wandering boy tonight?
Hes gone to sec sonic lass,
Never fear, mother dear, . .
!Hc's got a "Weekly Pass."'
. causedi to give my weekly puss to ;
It may have been good advertising, accord
ing to tho text books;.it may have been good 
advertising by virtue of the fact that Im still 
thinking about the Weekly ' Pass. But when 
the press agents get around' to, counting up to
tals, the gains may not bVhuvy enough-topay 
for colored strips of paper on the car windows. 
For most people ride the street cars from ne
cessity, and most people buy a Weekly Pass 
if they are forced to use the cars more then 
eighteen times a week. It would be foolish 
to buy checks at three for a quarter if one 
hod to use the car service three or four times 
a day; likewise a man who rides the street 
cars only occasionally will not indulge in n 
Weekly Pass even though his brother-in-law 
were a General Manager in the Company. ' In 
other words, the trade in this well, advertised 
commodity is .a staple one; I cither buy a pass, 
or else I dont''need one. The number of peo
ple who are on the verge, hoveVing between 
sixteen and nineteen rides a week'are the only 
ones who might; be in..ony way interested in a 
pass campaign! The per cent of these folks is 
'small indeed.
But those who were pass holders already, all 
the occasional riders, transients nnd visitors, 
were given the same dose of a press agents 
wit. I have vague memories of Sweetie 
movies," Old Man,Noahhis pass, etc., 
From inside and outside thse 'signs glared 
their little messages, adding annoyance and 
bum vers to the car riders daily routine. And
I hereby advise all persons who anticipate 
clustering up the days work with advertising 
undertakings of this sort to go into their.re
ceiver's hands before.their attack on the pub
lic materializes.  By doing, this, editorials of 
this sort will never be written. . As for th 
Pittsburgh Railway Company, a few sugges
tions which will pack the street cars and sell 
the passes: A resting place for ones elbow on 
the window ledge,, a positive elimination of all 
signs concerned with the courtesy of P. R. C. employes,..and of. Greater Pittsburgh," and. 
discontinuance of that silent companionThe 
Transit Guest.-
' M. T. H.
PROSPERITY IN 
GERMANY NOW 
DUE TO CREDIT
Business Conditions. There 
Are Better Than in Several 
Other European Countries
Lloyd Yoder Describes His Recent Journey to
California With Picked Eastern Football Team
"From snow-driCle to rosea; then hack to snow-drifts, wag the way Lloyd. Yodor described  1(3* recent .trip to California, where he playeu 
on the picked Eastern ' footbli team against a picked Western team. ' Although Lloyd was feted and Toasted and showered with honnlra, add thrilling tales, but sUU theold .: that"Tlierq's no place like hoi
After having been duly received Ty Mayor Rolfe, of. San Francisco, jnd after having been presented with the golden key (not to the te, but to the city). Lloyd wasby thi 
to give tlie speech of a< , which he says he did t of his ability. The-city
 the boys; stopping tbe traffic
tashion, out where the iian :)aap3 a little stronger."
They treated us like royalty,. Ie continued. "Beautiful big car
i theand iglori
1 Lloyd came back with souvenirs In galore; everything from sweaters to beautiful, leather wallets:. ,Every i>lnce. the boys went 'they, received some gift by which they would remember t^e West. He also received a pair of stunning cuff links in the form of small gold footballs with the words 
East-West Qorae" and his name Inscribed on them. He also tells' of tho many big business positions that were offered to himand as to the movies, he oniy smiled when I ackud what 'they had to offer ;
r la everything that
'(Continued prom Page One.)
Vandergrlft. E. W. Fell directs tho printing stunt, and Schneider, the aoii-degvce stunt., The iruiusSchaffer, pattern shop -director, bas sha^go of tlie faculty stunt.
la addition to the stunts, there 
will berefreshments and smokes
Only the alumni, fneu in Indus
tries aud Freshmen may. attend 
the affair. The.Industries alumniwill have tlielr annual reunion at the smoker. . All Freshmen should turn out for the .event, as:.it will .be their only chance to attend both 
the Industries smoker and.. the
Wlllli
.refreshments:. Howdy Meredith:- orchestra: Dunk' Turner:-decora- tions: .' E.- W. Fell, advertising: - J. W. McNair, tickets, and Fred 1 Woods.^publicity and ^advertising. Clyde McKee: andBartCarley will attend tp the-llghtlng-and printing
(Continued From Page One) 
boeu planned, which will bo served fronv 11 to 12. The gold room has been c'.ioeen as the scene for the mid-night dinner. The rose room has ulso been -reserved; in order to accommodate the large number of expected guests. The following .menu uas been arranged  Celery and olives; chicken a la king lu
olle; ice c
Mian and cake;. coffee'.
ntttcc
relionged-charof decorallo
r the 
n thedining room aud .the English: roomare also-well under wav.
 The favors for the Prom  have been decided upon. They-are extremely different and  unusually clever.. No -, other,'. Toch. organizaUon-hss ever before gtven'- su^h a favor. -  v .. -
Tickets maybe had. beglnntng Monday. January 17. for six-dollars. In the hall oft Margaret-MorTi* son and: Arts* Schools:
the taut that they boast ot th dome on tbe city hall which thy claim Is' 27 feet higher, than th dome on the capitol at Washing
ton. Lloyd was particularly Ini preyed by the beauty ot Leland Stanford campus with its arboreal avenue a mile longbut just
t be i
, then-Stai
CREDIT IS ABUNDANT
facttbat Sho must make paymentB to other countries the provisions of the Dawei It might be said that th
. holiday si money', spent In most of thosu /ere on the ' viesemed-to have dlscpuraged-buying.
One of the most promising features In the business situation iu 
Germany Is the. present abundaut supply of credit' Business recovery has 'been retarded there b-' cause ot the high intorest rates
i Sunday eveniamo very dI rfrrtogi'am ;;waa presented > be-'
i lies an opportunity to bei acquainted with the classics ocul and Instrumental mu interpreted by youths with all I ipontanelty and freshness that iverpresenf In -the young, 'wh nore than makes up for.wbat lack here may be of mature expression.
Next Sunday evening, January 
23. the second recital of the pres. series will be given, and a k at the pTOgram to be found on > front page of this issue will
nine at., eight-fifteen and hear what your own feltov 
itudents are accomplishing In th<
teB'yforsUpt'v,^ rt - lIcMur 
iat coairaltiIn the llst ot attractions Ing for local mo^lc lovera thU seaot artists ot parucandounced.;_ In .the 
number ' onewoman In particular 
trikes 
laclty eptloi
ciif the greatest voices of in artist of brilliant ability, a r wtiose recitals are UTjequaV the fleid of concert singers. 
Mtpe. Onegin abould . be heard by everyone who app^lnt'eV the'trulr' 
great In art.SigTld Onegin will be heard Tuesday, February 1, In Carnegie Mualc Jail. Her program last year, sh< 
ang Tbanltsgivlne night was one t the most beautiful redial pro* 
grams we have ever heard, 8nd Ith -glowing reports of her .artistr-being writtenelsewhere this 
son. tbe recital Is cne of the 
bright spots of the music
FRITZ KREISLER
i'rUz Krelsler -wilt give a recital ot violin music at Caraegle Music Hail next Thursday, January 20 Krelsler has longbeen, known t< the public not only as a faeclnat ig interpreter, but as a compose) 
positions and armall formintly t
home In Berlin, ed with art fr< world, they pini
A GREAT ARTIST
n taking the liberty of quotthe wholeyrid, aulflcieiwhich
mUet^be made.year after year other countries Insisted upoc cotting Gorman goods which Imported they woutd be killing the goose which lays the goldi In that It would then be Impossible ffr (9 err
the piei, howev BerlinThla
. the dlsThe Western coast eeems 
just'a step behind the East; Lloyd, 
remarked that this w,os noticeable 
by the fact that tlie ,1azz classics which werft qnite novcl and.nl us iaet nauoween. ijave just neen Introluced Into the land of th GcldotL.Gate this year.. - '
Speaking of the ladlea^Oh 
yts, Lloyd smiled; maybe he had a. few addresbes ' secreted away some place, for he confessed that he had met many charming and lovely girls in -. the . land of the orange blossomsbut he also confeesol that he was how convinced 
that she girls at home-were the
ijorlty of the European countries; In Belgium, Italy-and Austria it is seven per ceut'andlnFrancert Ha * six and onVhalf per cent The gold held by the Imperial Bank of Ger
many . has Increased, by about 50 per ceniin. thQ past-year, and-Inis increase has permitted a large expansion of credit by tbe whole banking sy9tom.The cause of the recovery of German credit is based to a largo extent upon the confidence shown, both at home and abroad, In the liulustrf andability of the German people. There has been no vexing unemployment problem as hasj been'the' case in England, and .the German laborers have worked longer hours than' in England. Other countries are beginning to feel severe pressure of German competition In foreigntrade.The feellug against.the purchase of; German . goods by other countries. which was a result of the World War, seems to -be fading In view of the fact that Is issn^ cases these German goods can be bought cheaper than -' domestic products. It is most fortunate that Germanys export trade is growing because'that is the only means by
FUR COATS
College Girls Models 
Formerly $325 to $375
*250
Natural Pony Blonde Pony 
Brown Pony -
No fur la more youthful than pony.-.and these coats 
are made In ehlc, llttle models. some with a decided sperti 
air..- They are trimmed with beaver, red fox, barundukl, 
fitch. Japanese' mink. Japanese marten, susllkl and leop; ard. ;v Some' of - the . porta-type models are - stripedIth
mede.
Camellatresa
>ver. im
If thpre is a ;ty In Germany, ccutiaue to n then It mAy be doubt as . to >
least ill eifec ch of her si
-the
balai
which
reparation pay
rmany in the imsary for her to - go throug national bankruptcy.BARTOW GRIFFlSa.
PONSELLE SISTERS
sa Ponselle, tho great dra; soprano of tbe Metropolitan Grand Opera Company who, with her sister Barmela FonseKc, 
give the slsth concert in the May Beegle series at Syria Mosque nt Friday night. January 21. Ma interesting things will contributebis one oi the outstanding 
of the musical Beast complete program is' ani 
here for the first time.(a) - The Glonl Son Che Nil
(b) Chi Vu................................ -Palsfello
(c) Stille Tranen.........SchumannRosa Ponselle.AriaVissi D'Arte (from the ipera Tosca) ..................Puccini
_________ 'kate:
people. Mr.-Damro*ch has nta^ llshed a name for hlmaelC not only, u an Interpreter, of old masters, it also as a bold '. experimente* __id brilliant .innovator] 'H is one of the most versatile ot conductors, 
d bas always been among the produce interesting novelUea and expei^menta.- '
A6 GENERAL PATART SAW US
* The Paris editlon of the -New 
York Herald published an luterSlewwUhiGeneralPatart.: who w as
on of the speahere at the Coal 
Conference, on. bis arrival In 
Prance. Among other things the 
paper says: The general was im
pressed by the strennous and rush
ing activity of Americans, which 
be said somewhat overtaxes tbe 
strength of Europeans, used to 
more quiet and pondration. He 
criticized the sameness of things 
In America, declaring that one to
bacco shop resembles thousands of 
tobocco shops, and a magnificent 
basket of apices will have every 
apple the same size, the same shape and tbe ssme<coIor. It' Is perfection, he said, but dangeroousl. near the mon animation. Ho was lavish expenditure
dimscale of luxury
icepth
uk by the
being on a i tally unknown
 (Contlaaed from-Page One) > Thomae* Jeffenoa d be osa ing college pollcles with-an alumni seer. - 
tary or a graduate manager of athletics.' For alms . and methods 
have changed-no tes^than mate- rial'equipment.
Out ihe period cf unciIUcal expansion Is nearing an end Sheer 
Increnso In uiunbre of. students' seeking admission .tocollege has. forced administrators ond teachers to analyze more acutely than ver 
tho function ond procedure ot college training. What is ,the essea'tiat'fesponslbilitr^th^collegek in our social scheme? Who should 
gii \to college?- What 6houid they do there, and bow should they do It? What does the college owo its ulumsi and other adult leamere? 
These aro questions which ar being earnestly reconsidered today in tho Unltod Slates. such f.ntherings of teacbcrs as tbe Associalion of American Colleges.' the AsBociatien of American University Professors, and various regional nnd departmental societies. They are boing considered qjjltc as 
earnestly by undergraduates, whose interest In the problems 0! their own education is constantly becoming keener. The . culmination of nwny smaller conference* was the Teceut-meetlng of the National Student Federation at Ann 
Arbor, with some-SQD colleges and universities represented. - Thero questions of curriculum and teach
ing. ns well os student activities, were vigorously debated..
Carmela Porelle.ArlnErnnnl Involaml (from the opera Ernanl)......V. l-VtfrdRosa Ponselle.Theme and Variations of Corelli..........Arranged by Stuart RosDuet from second act of Gioconde.......................... PonchieUl
Rosa and Curmela Ponsello.(a) Radamisto ............... Hande(b) The Mermaid's Song..Hsydi(c) Plalelr dAmour .......Martin
(d) April, My April........................................../.H. V. MllllgniCarmela Ponselle.(a) Wings of Night.Winter Wutfc(b) Eros .......................... Grieg(c) Lnllaby .......*.... .Cyril S<(d) Piper of Love.............CarewRosa Ponselle.DuetDeh! Con te. LI Prendl . from the opera Norma). .Bellini nbsa and Carmela Ponselle.
NEW YORK SYMPHONY
Walter Damrosch, dean of An lean conductors, will be welcomed -in Pittsburghafter many years* absence. when his New York Symphony Orchestra gives the fifth pair of concerts in the Pittsburgh Orchestra Association series at Syria n Friday and Saturday.r 28 iI 29.Mr. Damrh has been condui jf the New'York Symphony for 42 years, and the newjs of his resign;
vith regret by his thousands ot adnlrers. Statistics in connection fflth his career reveal that he has
Cloaks the beard softer
W
HEN you shave with Williams Shav
ing Cream notice, how much sharper 
your razor seems. Williams remarkable 
beard softening qualities are responsible for 
this. For Williams lather is saturated with 
moisture that soaks the beard soft for easy 
shaving. A Williams shave leaves the face'
' glove smooth. Two sizes, 35c and 50c.
Williams Shaving Cream
PC opportunity is mpe for saving 
about seven-eighths of the power 
now needed to start trains.
Hence heavier freights and smooth
est passenger service are practical 
with present motive power.
A major economy can also be^ ef
fected in car lubrication. Most of 
this cost i$ avoidable with every 
requirement of maintenance and 
safety being met by journal inspec
tion months apart! ^Yet hot boxes
Indeed, all the chief causes of wear 
and tear disappear from trucks 
and draft gear, as the old sliding^ 
friction m journals 16 supplanted
by^perfectly lubricated rolling mo
tion, confined entirely to hardened, 
ground, special alloy steel, of 
'Utmost durability.
An established, conservative, highly 
successful, world-respected engi
neering institution sponsors all this. 
It i^being; accomplished today by 
means of Timken Tapered Roller 
Beanngs THey have become Tiniver al throughout transportation 
and other industries
Data on Timken Beanngs in car 
journal , and apy desired engineer
ing counsel, ''are at the disposal 
of every railroad/ IsR IeojRE
ROLLER BEARING CO., CANTON; OHIO
...................................................
