<
WRITE Contest 
Winning Editorial 
See Page 2
Track Team 
Loses WP Title 
See Page 3
VOL.51No. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUESDAY, MAY 6, 1953
Techites
Draft
If you are under the juris
diction of selective service 
regulations and plan to con
tinue your education next 
year, 1958-59, at C.I.T. or any 
institution, report immediately 
to room A.H. 150 and complete 
S.S. Form 109. Otherwise, you 
will be 1-A subject to call to 
active duty. Very important.
New Housing
Married Techites Get 
Apartment Building
Queen Ginny Reigns 
At Tuneful Carnival
At
Carnegie Tech is scheduled to begin construction of a new mar
ried students apartment building. Work will begin sometime during 
the week, according to the contractor, D. W. Smith, Inc. The new unit 
will be completed by next year and will provide space for 52 families.
The apartment building will be located next door to the present 
student union on the Beeler Streets 
side. It will replace the 24 apart
ments available in the barracks 
pe buildings across Forbes 
reet, which will then *be demol
ished. Tech officials say that they 
expect the building will be filled 
as soon as it is finished due to 
the present great demand for such 
housing.
Assembly
President Warner will speak 
at the assembly of May 13, 
11:30, in the Fine Arts Little 
Theatre. This assembly will 
climax this years series. Dr. 
Warner will speak on a sub
ject of his choice, one of in
terest both nationally and to 
Carnegie Tech.
The facility Is expected to cost 
approximately $680,000, includ
ing kitchen equipment. Since a 
C-rvey of present married stu
dents has revealed that most of 
them already have furniture and 
laundry equipment, the apart[continued on page 4]
Under Milk Wood9 
Produced By The 
DramaDepartment
-C^fhe Department of Drama of 
Carnegie College of Fine Arts 
will present Under Milk Wood, 
a play for voices by Dylan 
Thomas, in eight performances 
beginning Friday, May 9. Profes
sor Mary Morris will direct the 
student production.
Under Milk Wood was creat
ed experimentally by Thomas as 
a staged reading, without scenery
d costumes. The first performce was held in New York City 
in 1953, with the author directing 
and playing several parts. Sada 
Thompson and Nancy Wickwire, 
Carnegie drama graduates now 
active on television and offBroadway plays, performed the 
womens parts in that perform
ance, which took place just prior 
to Thomas death.
The play does not follow a foraaal Plot but attempts to charHterize the people of a Welsh 
[continued on page 4]
Construction is scheduled to begin this week on the 
dents. The building is to accommodate 52 families when it 
pletion sometime this year.
new apartment building for married stuis completed. The contract ealls for comCarnival Queen Presented 
Twelve Trophies At Dance
At Last Humor: 
Great Scot!
By Mike Clayton
While tradition would seem to 
demand a cynical view of the new 
(j>eat Scot, we must admit that 
the quality of this issue deserves 
commendation. Ginger Dancull is 
to be congratulated for her suc
cess in achieving honest ribaldry 
uncompromised by crudeness. The 
satire on Spring Carnival activi
ties was exceptionally good and 
Jack Z i e r o 1 d  s Whistle-Stop; 
Earth" shrould initiate a series of 
high quality short stories.
The art work and photography 
,<gjVe of the usual calibre and the 
[continued on page 4]
Highlighting the 1958 Carnival 
festivities were the jazz concert 
Friday evening and the Carnival 
Ball Saturday, both of which were 
well-attended.
The Jazz Festival 
were featured in an informal con 
cert at which most of the attend
ants sat on the floor or in the 
risers. From time to time a few 
enthusiasts danced; however, the 
majority of the numbers were de
signed for listening.
Carnival Ball 
Over twelve hundred people 
crowded into the gym Saturday 
evening for the Carnival Ball, 
which featured Art Mooney and 
his orchestra. The decorations 
murals of store fronts depicting 
various Tinted Tuneswere de
signed by Gail Garvin and Sally 
Schwerzler.
At 10:15 drawings were held cm 
dance tickets, with various prizes
awarded to holders of winning 
tickets. The 11:00 intermission feaThis Morning's Stveepstakes 
Finals Give ATO Top Cup
In the hush of an overcast morning two Tech fraternities 
quietly made their way to the starting line of the buggy race 
course. At about 5:30 a.m. ATO and PiKA decided the post
poned fates of the three sweepstakes trophies.
A near record time of 2:28.44 _____ _
was set by the blue ATO Andy 
The PiKA' Shark and ATO 
Golden Cigar turned in times of 
2:43 and 2:45 respectively. This is 
the seventh consecutive year that 
ATO has won first lace and at
least th fourth that PiKA has 
won second.
About 70-80 college men plus j 
the police witnessed the early !
morning event. The race 
school and police sanction.
had
On Friday afternoon of last week, the Spring Carnival 
festivities were officially opened by Techs Spring Carnival 
queen, Ginny Tennant. A few minutes before this, Ginny had 
been crowned as the reigning queen by Dr. Warner. This
?coronation was the climax of sev
eral weeks of campaigning by the 
sororities for their respective can
didates.
This year a new feature was 
added to Carnival campaigns. Two 
trophies were awarded to the two 
best sorority queen campaign 
skits. At the carnival's formal 
on Saturday night, first 
was awarded to Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, with the second 
place trophy going to Delta Delta 
Delta.
Winning Skits
The theme of Kappas winning 
ts was Black Magic. It fea
tured a chorus costumed as bats, 
candidates dressed as Kappa 
Witches, hypnotism, and red 
masks. The Tri-Delt skit, The 
Old Grey Mare, copped second 
place with its grey mare, trotting 
and Tri-Delt horseshoes. 
Large Turnout 
Elections for the queen wrere 
second
for this election in recent years 
voted. In fact, 504 male students 
voted. (Frank received 20 votes.)
Queen Ginny, a senior music 
major and Tri-Delt representative, 
was attended by her court, Rita 
Menke and Anne Howard, both 
Home Ec. majors and representa
tives of Kappa.
Rain Dampens 
Colorful Cut
Although the gay midway look
ed a little bedraggled the last Sat
urday night, the first two days of 
Carnival were extraordinaryily 
successful this year.
Enthusiastic students poured on
to the cut both Thursday and Fri
day to stuff themselves with a 
mixture of cotton candy, candied 
apples and hot dogs. After this 
unsavory mess they continued the 
day by tilting and whirling on the 
octopus, ferris wheel, merry-goround and rollo-plane. Meanwhile, 
the fraternity men worked fever
ishly to finish their booths before 
judging. The booths, this year, 
followed the theme of tinted tunes 
and were all so original and color
ful that the cut looked like a min
iature Disney Land. A blue moon 
yellow dog, pirate ship, giant 
jukebox, voo-doo huts, red robin, 
genie with a light brown hare, 
and even a covered wagon were a 
few of the many fraternity dis
plays.
Carnival Contests
A new addition to carnival this 
year was the platform in the mid
dle of the midway where various 
acts and the judging of the mus
tache and hatmaking contests 
were to have taken place had the 
weather been cooperative, The 
winners of these two unusual con
tests were announced at the dance 
Saturday night. Bill Lane and 
j Robert Odeh won the mustache 
! contest after having worked on 
I their display for several weeks, 
j The winner of the hat contest was 
j Luvern Baker who was awarded 
 the prize for designing a hat 
I which could be worn in public and 
i followed the theme of tinted tunes.
MoNell
tured the presentation of Carnival 
awards by Carnival Queen Ginny 
Tennant.
Award
Kappa Sigma was presented 
first prize for its booth, Red 
Garters, which was fashioned 
after a western saloon. Second 
place went to Alpha Tau Omega 
for its booths Red, Red Robin, 
while the Tau Delta Phi booth, 
Blue Moon, was chosen third.
In sorority competition first 
prize for queen campaigns was 
awarded to Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
w'hose theme was That Old Black 
Magis, Delta Delta Delta placed 
second. The trophy for sorority re
lays was also won by Kappa 
Kappa Gamma.
[cojitinM.eti on page 2]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 6, 1958
WRITE Editorial
Active Education .
In one of a series of lectures reprinted in The Aims of 
Education, Alfred North Whitehead has stated that the pur
pose of a university is neither to convey bare knowledge nor 
to provide opportunities for faculty research, but rather to 
preserve the connection between knowledge and the zest of 
life. He says further that such an institution ought to weld 
together imagination and experience. It is my opinion that 
Carnegie Tech is not fulfilling this purpose as well as it might.
I This notion has been prompted by the large number of 
students who are seemingly dissatisfied with their choice of 
a major course of study. Some whom I know personally 
(many of these with superior intelligence) have based their 
dissatisfaction on the grounds that the subjects are uninter
esting and the instructors boring, incompetent, and unimag
inative.
Students At Fault
It is granted that some teachers are inferior to others in 
interest, intelligence and the art of pedagogy. I should like 
to suggest, however, that the fault lies not so much with the 
instructor as with the student himself.
? Instructors who, time after time, are confronted with a 
group of unresponsive neophytes cannot be expected to con
tinue any enthusiasm which they may once have had. An in
structor met with enthusiasm and interest, however, is likely 
to do his utmost to satisfy the student reaction.
A number of classes of guilty students exist: (1) those 
who enter a class with a preformed, though passive, set 
against the teacher (because of terrible tales related by his 
former disgruntled and disillusioned students); (2) those who 
openly defy the instructor to teach them anything (usually 
for the same reason); and (3) those who enter a class begging 
to be inspired with knowledge of the subject, but unwilling to 
co-operate by supplying the necessary mental exertion.
Discipline Necessary
Whitehead has said that discipline is necessary to the 
successful harnessing of the energies of imagination. The ideal 
student, then, is one who leaves the intellectual door opn ancfcfi 
is willing and able to learn well what is to be taught. Accord
ingly, the ideal teacher is one who wants to and can fill this 
intellectual gap by direct transfer of knowledge, by encourag
ing the student to do more on his own. and by giving him a 
feeling for the subject which he cannot possibly get from the 
inert printed page.
The teacher is the organ most necessary to a university 
if it is to fulfill its purpose of providing the connection be
tween knowledge and the zest of life. It is my suggestion, 
therefore, to all student at Carnegie and especially those who 
have not yet experienced the zest of learning to give the in
structor deserved response to his efforts and to take advantage 
of his knowledge and abilities. Only by so doing can each of 
us hope to make full use of our college education and to derive 
the greatest benefit from this community of learning.
Louis Pondy 
Physics 59
(This editorial is the winner in Jhe Tartan section of the 
WRITE contest, sponsored by Pi Delta Epsilon a short time ago.
The Tartan hopes that the thoughts expressed herein will stir the 
Tech student body to discover the satisfaction gained from the acproccss of learning compared to the passive process of being 
taught. Try it.)
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-4557: Managing Editor, MU 2-8877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manager . MU 2-8851 Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination period by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Uanaginc E4itr .............................................................................................................. Carol Sooby
Executive Editor ..................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
^..oeiate I ditar ..................................................................................................... David Doll
Huvinrs Manager .................................................................................................. Michael Bass
F.ditar ..............................................'.......................................................................... Ton Bier
Sports l.ditor ..................................................................................................................... George Paris
Cpy l.ditor ................................................................................................................... Jerry Sullivan
A si taut News EditorJanyce Notopoulofi, Features EditorLex Baker, Pho
tograph l.ditorA1 Gickler, Assistant Business ManagerLee Adelsburg, Advertis
ing ManagerMike Balsam, SecretaryRena Siegel, Assistant Sports Editor
Ed Blum.____________________________________________________ft_______________
News StaffRon Abrams. Mike Clayton, Peggy Ford, Mary Ann Gaertner, Mar
lene Garland, Val Goodrich, Marianne Hadel, Dick Hartman, Natalie Laird, Beth
Liden, An Marino, Lou Pondy, Cissie Rafferty, Terry Rudy, Margie Spock.
S|>rls StaffTom Bieg. George Gross, Jim Mullin, Hilliard Wood, Stan Zionts, 
Mtke Berman. Pete Pence. Dick Hamilton, Bruce Bowen.
Copy StaffFrank Baloh.
Art SUITRoy Brodsky, Don Beaman, Ned Ardalan.
Photograph StairJohn Philbrick.
Secretarial Sta*Marsha Lowe, Pat Downer, Betsy Moos.
< ir< ulation StaffGary Brandenberger, Jim Phillips.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsrgh Pa under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates of poetprovided for in the act of February 28. 1925
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Letters 
To The 
Editor
Tuesday Lectures
Editor, the Tartan:
At last Tuesdays 11:30 assem
bly, Tech students had the oppor
tunity to hear Dr. Alfred Jospe 
present his topic, In Defense of 
Tomorrow. One of the major 
points of Dr. Jospes talk cen
tered around the general apathy of 
todays college students. Was his 
observation valid? Those that 
were there had only to look about 
them to realize that his contention 
might have been well founded. 
The Fine Arts Theatre was less 
than third full; 2.1% of our 3,300 
student body. At the Pierre Zoelly 
lecture the previous week there 
were even fewer .studnts.
When our weekly assembly pro
grams began this year with the 
series by the English department, 
lectures were wrell attended. I was 
quite pleased, for I felt that the 
secret had been found. Create a 
committee of 6 interested stu
dents and 6 faculty members to 
program stimulating lectures, 
widely publicized and scheduled 
every w7eek, the students will at
tend.
Attendance Required
My bliss was in ignorance how
ever. For it was not long before I 
found out that the greater major
ity of attending students at the 
English lectures were not only re
quired to attend, but in many 
cases were being tested on the 
material presented! My indigna
tion was high. Were we in a colege or a kindergarten?
I knew we were In the former 
but after a few weeks I wondered 
whether we had really outgrown 
the latter. As soon as required at
tendance was abandoned, the stu
dent audience diminished by tlyee 
fourths of its original size and has 
remained at that level to the 
present.
Wake Up
We are students in a college 
that is unique in that it is, in a 
sense, a small university. Being so, 
we have many additional educa
tional opportunities outside of the 
classroom. Drama productions, art 
exhibits, student and faculty 
music recitals, assembly programs, 
and Tech Forums, is to mention a 
few. Yet where is our supposed 
maturity to realize and take ad
vantage of this wealth at our very 
fingertips? Must we be literally 
led by the hand to these sources 
of education (and entertainment I 
might add) before we are awake 
enough to recognize their value?
Let us not get so tied up in our 
small academic tasks that we fail 
to take advantage of these oppor
tunities which often, in the total 
educational picture, have more 
significance and value than we 
realize. Let us wake up and get 
educated!
Don Telialian 
Sub-Sr. Areh
W&J Victorious 
8-1 Over Tartan 
Tennis Squad
Techs tennis team suffered a 
decisive defeat at the raquets of 
W & J, 8-1 last Friday, May 2 on 
the plaid courts in the shadow of 
the carnival midway. It was a 
disappointing day for the Tartans, 
who had hoped to avenge last 
years narrow 5-4 defeat, as only 
Mario Volpe, playing 4th singles, 
won a point.
Earlier in the week two matches 
were rained out, both of which 
have been rescheduled. Mondays 
match at Allegheny will be play
ed this Saturday, May 10,* and on 
Tuesday with Duquesne will be 
held May 17. The squad faces a 
busy schedule now with matches 
on Monday, Wednesday and Sat
urday of this week and next.
QnC&iqnswith
MaxShuJman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
THE ENGINEERS HAVE HAIRY EARS
Today in this age of technology when engineering graduates are 
wooed and courted by all of Americas great industries, how do 
you account for the fact that Rimbaud Sigafoos, who finished 
at the very top of his class at M.I.T., turned down hundreds of 
attractive job offers to accept employment as a machinery 
wiper at the Acme Ice Company at a salary of $20 a week with 
a twelve-hour day, a seven-day week, and only fifteen minutes 
for lunch?
w vooeJ courtedI know what you are thinking: Cherchez la femme! You are 
thinking that Mr. Acme, head of the Acme Ice Company, has 
a beautiful daughter with whom Rimbaud is madly in love and 
he took the job only to be near her.
Friends, you are wrong. It is true that Mr. Acme does have 
a daughter, a large, torpid lass named Clavdia who spends all 
her waking hours scooping marzipan out of a bucket and staring 
at a television set which has not worked in some years. Rim
baud has not the slightest interest in Clavdia; nor, indeed, does 
any other man, excepting possibly John Ringling North.
So how come Rimbaud keeps working for the Acme Ice Com
pany? Can it be that they provide him with free Marlboro 
Cigarettes, and all day long he enjoys that filter, that flavor, 
that flip-top box?
No, friends, no. Rimbaud is not allowed to smoke on the job, 
and when he finishes his long, miserable day, he has to buy his 
own Marlboros, even as you and I, in order to enjoy that 
estimable filter, that incomparable flavor, that crazy flip-top box.
Well, friends, you might as well give up because youll never 
in a million years guess why Rimbaud works for the Acme Ice 
Company. The reason is simply this; Rimbaud is a seal!
He started as a performing seal in vaudeville. One night on ^ 
the way to the Ed Sullivan show, he took the wrong subway.
All night the poor mammal rode the B.M.T., seeking a helping 
hand. Finally a kindly brakeman named Ernest Thompson 
Sigafoos rescued the hapless Rimbaud.
He took Rimbaud home and raised him as his. own, and 
Rimbaud, to show his appreciation, studied hard and got ex
cellent marks and finished a distinguished academic career as 
valedictorian of M.I.T.
Rimbaud never complained to his kindly foster father, but 
through all those years of grammar school and high school and f 
college, he darn near died of the heat! A seal, you must remem
ber, is>by nature a denizen of the Arctic, so you can imagine 
bow poor Rimbaud must have suffered in subtropical New York 
and Boston, especially in those tight Ivy League suits.
But today at the Acme Ice Company, Rimbaud has finally 
found a temperature to his liking. He is very happy and sends 
greetings to his many friends.
 Mai SbahMW 
   &
WRI TEdit oRI raEdit Il3 4iT o TlT Tl aE6i 0ETF  fohaAlhlt 
0Flvi do6ihv To6i eaiov3hi ER AhER4ER4 Il3 TFEv rla3dR 
TFhl34F TFi vrFlla Iioh.
GIRLS!!! v
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR SUMMER POSITIONS! *
There are a few positions available for the 1958 camp 
season and if you are certified by the American Red 
Cross as a Waterfront Instructor contact Isabelle Levy 
at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, AT 1-7100 from Friday af
ternoon, May 9 to Sunday, May 11.
Waterfront Director and 
Registered NurseAlso Needed
5

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 6, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPa* S
Nice 4 room and bath fur
nished apt. Large living 
room, complete kitchen, 2 
bed rooms each with twin 
beds. Laundry facilities. 
For 4 students $31.25 each 
per month. Available June 
1st.
Also
Nicely furnished 2 room 
private bath and kitch
enette apt. Twin bed for 2 
students. $42.50 each per 
month. Phone JA 1-2497 
after 5 p.m. Available May 
1st.
Shanahan 
Storage
All Privte Rooms
3460 Fifth Avenue
* The beautiful Delray 2-Door Sedan, one o( threeDelray models.
Chevrolets dollar-stretching WRITEd 
dit otra lE3a a4R a64r 0tdF
Here's surefire proof Chevrolet always knows how to give you more for 
your moneyfrom longer, newer, lovelier bodies to a wider range of 
engines, transmissions and suspension systems. The more you look 
the more you'll find to like in Delrayfa6R IihRra AT4lRW 
iv EII a6R IiheAT4lRW l6RnTiIRarF
Choice of time-proved Powerglide* or' supremely smooth 
Turboglide*the only tripleturbine drive in Chevys held.
UNIQUE 
Full Coil Suspension
Delrays standard suspension system 
puts a cloud-soft coil spring at each 
wheel, blends this with the beautiful 
roadability of four-link rear control arms!
Chevy doesnt have any smaller 
models. The big, beautiful Chevrolet 
Delray is just as long, just as wide, just 
as softly sprung on the same 117-inch 
wheelbase as the luxurious Bel Air 
models. Like every other Chevrolet, 
it has the extra soiidity and quality of 
Body by Fisher. Theres no stinting 
on optional equipment, either. You
can get anything from Fuel Injection* 
to Level Air* ride, any Chevrolet 
transmission, any Chevrolet engine, 
just as you choose. Take a long, long 
look at this one next time you drop in 
at your Chevrolet dealershipbecause 
the more you demand for your money 
the surer it is you'll decide on Delray!
nueTElRoa oT TUTho ilTTN
and Delray is the only
ear in its class with the extra 
rigidity of an all-new Safety-Girder 
frame, the extra clarity of Safety 
Plate Glass all the way around, the 
extra convenience of crankoperated vent windows!
Drive with core... everywhere!
7535 Penn Avenue
Mayflower 1-7800
Nation Wide 
Furniture Movers
See your local authorized Chevrolet dealer for quick appraisal-prompt delivery!
ftm
APARTMENTS TO RENT
You can order a Delray with Chevy* 
top Fuel Injection V8 if you likeor 
get any one of the five V8s or the 
Blue-FJame Six!
Smedley
Mennen Spray Deodorant for Men keeps 
on working all day longworking to 
prevent odor, working to check perspiration. 
For this non-stop protection, get Mennen!
60c and *1.00
WIN $25! For each college cartoon situation 
submitted and used! Show how Smedley gets the brushoff! 
Send sketch or description and name, address and college to 
The Mennen Company, c/o Smedley, Morristown, N. J.
Tech Defeated By Westminster 
In West Penn Championship
Carnegie Techs harriers split two track meets this past 
week defeating Grove City, 76-55; and then bowing to a pow
erful Westminster aggregation, 81-50.
Much excitement was shown in the Grove City meet as 
ric Ottervik, Techs tri-state two#------------------------------------------------
mile champion, just missed break
ing the school record for this 
event by half a second. The re
cord of ten minutes flat is held 
by ex-track coach Bob Carman.
Ottervik 
Ottervik ran his first three laps 
in fast time and then settled down 
in the middle laps. He startled 
the crowd by sprinting the last 
<ap in fifty-two seconds, a phenominal time. Dick Hamilton came 
in second in this event, also, run
ning a fine time of 10:13.
Ty Porter won both his spec
ialties, the 100 and 200 yard dash
es, while Joe Frick won the jave
lin, Don Humes the pole vault, 
and John Berg the discus. The win 
gave Tech a 5-1 record for the 
season and assured the team of a 
winning record.
Westminster 
The Westminster meet was to 
decide the West Penn Conference 
champion, but the team from New 
Wilmington proved too much for 
the Tartans in the field events 
and this gave them the meet.
Bright spot in this meet was 
Eric Suggs, who had not had much 
success earlier in the season due 
to a pulled leg muscle. Suggs won
Leo Alman & 
The Combo
HA. 1-2083
the 440 in fine time, 51.7 seconds.
The lanky runner also anchor
ed the mile relay team which won 
in the excellent time of 2:40. This 
race was nip and tuck all the way 
till Suggs took the baton about 
eight yards behind. He passed the 
Westminster runner with about 
100 yards to go and won the relay 
event by about one foot.
Awards[continued from page 1] 
Phi Kappa was again awarded 
the first place trophy for the best 
buggy design with ATO placing 
second. Since the final races in 
buggy competition were postpon
ed because of rain, trophies could 
not be awarded. Preliminary fin
alists, were ATO, first and second 
with 2.25.6 and 2.33.8, and PiKA, 
third with 2.36.8. At the time that 
the Tartan went to press, no defi
nite decision had been reached as 
to when the finals would be held.
Faculty Egg Toss 
The award for the faculty egg 
toss went to the chemistry de
partment, while Bill Lane and 
Bob Odeh were announced as 
winners of the mustache-growing 
competition. LaVerne Baker won
Codetjiate
CJturai
(^aiendtar
The department of painting, de
sign, and sculpture is showing 
graduate students work in the 
Hewlett Gallery or) the first floor 
of the Fine Arts Building. This 
exhibition will continue through 
May 9.
The Music Department will 
present a Student Recital at 8:30 
tomorrow evening, May 7, in the 
Exhibition Hall of Fine Arts. Fea
tured performers will be Margaretta Dascalos, Conrad Sousa, Ro
bert Hamilton Ronald Reich, and 
Filia Moraitis.
Music Department
Correction: The concert by the 
orchestra of the Music depart
ment on May 11 at Carnegie 
Music Hall will be held at 8:30 
p.m., not 1:30 p.m., as previously 
stated.
Pete Seeger, the famed folk
song artist ana musician, will be 
heard in a YM-YWCA-sponsored 
concert in Carnegie Lecture Hall 
May 13 at 8:30 p.m. Moderately 
priced tickets are available at the 
Y office in Carnegie Union.
the girls hat-making contest.
The 1958 carnival was, accord
ing to carnival committee, one of 
the most successful in several 
years. Carnival co-chairman Marlyn Jakub announced Saturday 
evening that for the first time in 
recent years, Spring Carnival was 
in the black, with over eight 
hundred tickets sold.
Air Conditioningtemperotures mode to order. Get o demonstration!
I  Theyre Full-Size Chevies I 
--------------I No skimping in seat width, leg| 
I room, wheelbaseDelray gives I 
I you every generous dimension I 
| offered by any Chevrolet.J
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
end GIFT SELECTIONS 
' (  Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
I 3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 6. 1958
Apartments
[continued from page 1] 
ments will be unfurnished. Each 
will be provided with a laundry 
space and a locker room in the 
basement. In addition, there will 
be two playrooms located in the 
basement for use by the children.
The present driveway to the 
union will be widened and re
paved and will serve as an en
tranceway. The area in front of 
the building will serve as a park
ing area, with a playground lo
cated at the side. The exact 
rental charge is not known at the 
present time.
Walt Harper
Orchestra
MAyflower 1-5270 
7IS Clarissa Street
START 
YOUR m VACATIONm THE
SMART 
WAY
Travel by Train 
means low fares 
... no cares f
COACH PARTY FARES
save each person in your 4hl3e 
lQ 75 lh dlhi 7PM lQ regular 
round-trip fare.
Special for Married Students !
Use The Family Fare Hon  
wive* ride one way free.
WONDERFUL FUN 
FOR EVERYONE
Nave a "party while you 
travel? Enjoy fine food..; 
delightful refreshmentyNNE 
happy talk. Avoid worry about 
traffic congestion, highway 
hazards, and weather conditions.
Ask yowr lecel ticket er travel 
 gent NOW ebewt the greet 
meney-sa vinf plan*.
REraRT3
TE4ITiEWr
Play
[continued from page I] 
village by describing their activi
ties from dawn to dusk on a single 
day. Such persons as Captain Cat, 
Rosie Progert, Mrs. Dai Bread 
Two, Organ Morgan, Lord Cut
lass, Nogood Boyo, Butcher Beynon. and Sinbad Sailors are in
troduced, with as many as five 
parts assigned to one actor.
Six members of the cast, Sen
iors Jay Kobler, Denise Huot, 
Philip Jacobus, Carol Cox, Nancy 
Pickhardt, and Jack Randall, will 
be making their final appearance
on the Carnegie stage. Mr. Kobler 
and Miss Huot have won Fulbright scholarship awards for 
1958-1959 and will take graduate 
work at drama schools in Eng
land. Other cast members include 
Jeanne Paynter, Joel Levinson, 
Martha Buhs, Gayle Greene, and 
Janet Young. The setting will be 
designed by Alan Kimmel and 
the lighting by Neil Bernstein.
Under Milk Wood will be 
presented evenings except Sun
day from May 9 through 16 at 8:15 
p.m. in the theater of Fine Arts. 
A matinee performance will be 
given on May 8 at 2:15 p.m.
FOOTWEAR FOR COLLEGE HEN AND WOMEN
Acrobatics, Ski Boots, Soft and Hard Toe Slippers, Des
ert Boots, Tap Shoes, Bedroom Slippers, Ice and Roller 
Skates and Shoes, Tennis Shoes, Dress Shoes, Rubbers 
and Galoshes.
Save up to 40% Open 9 to 9
LITTLE'S Shoe Store
Belter Shoes For Less5850 Forbes SI.
Great Scot
[continued from page'll 
joke sections abound with humor 
which was amazingly uncensored.
The whole issue represented a 
new direction in Scot productions, 
and it is hoped that those respon
sible for the earlier issues remain 
submerged.
ivfr . . . *
bidders!
.AR EY O UALAKIYI YAKNG
''SsSv
H. I KftOHNC*. 
WAY MC STATE V.
Yen wiR
WHAT IS A SOUTH AMEIHCAN MAW?
VOLLO.5 osino. Chile Filly
INDIANA TECHNICAL COLL.
WHAT'S A MINK-UPHOISTERED CARRIAGE?
Furry Surrey
WHATS A POOH.Y UCHTEO 
ASKETOAU COURT?
IF SILENCE WERE REALLY GOLDEN, fishermen 
would be up to their hip boots in cash. Theyre so 
noiseless, they wont even wear loud shirts. But 
when they (Groan!) run out of Luckies, they 
almost lose control. They rant, rave and blow their 
stacksall in sign language, of course! Result? 
The unusual phenomenon called a Quiet Riot! 
Luckys popularity, after all, is no fluke. A Lucky 
is the best-tasting cigarette you can buyand for 
good reason. Its made of naturally light, goodtasting tobacco, toasted to taste even better. So 
why flounder around? Get Luckies yourself!
CIGARETTES
MARTIN CIISIRT.
3 or
WHAT IS A WANOEWNG ESKIMO?
1NLoO2 54LOTUE
STAN FOR
Polar Stroller
WHAT 00 WPIOMATS NEED?
o* COLSE AS. 
MANKATO STATE COLI.1orT -orT
Stuck for dought 
START STICKLINGI 
MAKE $25
Well pay $25 for every Stickler 
we printand for hundreds 
more that never get used! So start 
Sticklingtheyre so easy you 
can think of dozens ip seconds! 
Sticklers are simple riddles with 
two-word rhyming answers. 
Both words must have the same 
number of syllables. (Dont do 
drawings.) Send em all with 
your name, address, college and 
class to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
LIGHT UP A II
FSOM r. c#.#'
SMOKE-LIGHT UP A LUCKY!
Product of is our middle name
Handout, finely tailored shirts; featuring  
the Ivy Button-domi and Tab Collars in 
fine combed oxford cloth. Made by skilled 
craftsmen in one of America's oldest shirt 
factories.
Sold exclusively on campus  by collegiate * 
agents.
JERRY LISOV1CH 
Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity Agent
*'
