Computer Center News...Pg. 6
October 3, 1972 Volume 73 Number 42.79 Average QPA 
Expected To Rse
Security Director Ron Jaylorphoto by Carl Grefenstatte
by John Spaulding
For the last ten years the C-MU student 
body has experienced the phenomenon of 
rising grades. The cumulative grade point 
average of senior classes has risen by almost 
four tenths of a point, to 2.79, in the past 
four years. The average grades of seniors 
range from 3.05 in CIT to 3.26 in MIS.
There is every indication that the trend 
will continue and grades will go still higher. 
If grades rise much beyond their presentGUARDS AVOID VIOLENCE; TAYLOR TALKS OF GUNS
by Steven Correll
Security Director Ron Taylor says 
that C-MU must decide soon either to 
selectively arm and train its security force 
to deal with violent crime or to ask Pitts
burgh Police to familiarize themselves with 
details of the campus, including academic 
buildings and dormitories.
Taylor says it is unfair to send his men 
into potentially violent situations that they 
are not equipped to handle, since they feel 
uncomfortable if they cannot intervene. He 
cited the armed robbery in the hill dorms 
last year. In that incident, two unarmed 
officers saw two men, one of whom carried 
a half-concealed gun, in the process of 
robbing a student. When the officer asked 
if the student was in any trouble, the men 
fled with the students money.
Under current procedure, a security 
officer who discovers a dangerous situation 
in progress is required by his Department 
to contact Security headquarters and con
tinue to observe the incident, avoiding di
rect confrontation. Security headquarters
Alliance Asks Election Day 
Suspension
by Gary Singer
The Alliance of C-MU Students, Staff 
and Faculty for McGovern-Shriver circultaed a petition early last week asking 
that C-MU suspend classes on Friday 
November 3, Monday November 6, and 
Tuesday November 7 (Election Day) in or
der to lend support to the notion that 
students-as citizens and voters-should be 
actively engaged in the political process. 
The petition also calls for the pushing back 
of the end of the semester three days, to 
December 22.
The purpose of this suspension of 
classes, according to Bennett Uncoff the 
student coordinator for the C-MU 
McGovern campaign, is in the interest of 
promotion of political and social awareness 
of the staff and students of Carnegie. He
continued that his moratorium of classes is 
strictly non-partisan, providing both 
McGovern and Nixon forces the oppor
tunity of last minute campaigning. Lincoff 
sited two reasons for the present effort. 
The first, which he considered short
continued on page 3
then calls the Pittsburgh Police.
Asked if arming the security force 
would increase the danger of a violent con
frontation on campus, Taylor said carrying 
guns and not carrying guns both present 
risks.  Obviously, we cant have shootouts 
in the Tartan Grill. Hopefully this risk 
could be minimized with well trained se
curity officers. A weapon if worn should 
probably be concealed as much as possible. 
There should be strict guidelines on the 
drawing and discharging of the weapon. 
Only those officers should be armed who 
can pass a range qualification and who pos
sess the physical stamina to defend them
selves from unarmed attack without resort 
to the weapon. This might mean that some 
differentiation would need to be made in 
the officers. Some might not be armed at
all but would also not be expected to re
spond to high risk situations. These issues 
are complex.
Several members of the security force 
now carry guns between 8PM and 8AM. 
Taylors would arm more, though not all, 
of the force. Each man would have to 
qualify yearly to carry a revolver, and he 
could only draw it under specified condi
tions.
If the CMU administration decides not 
to arm the force, Security would continue 
to provide rescue service and anti-theft and 
anti-vandalism patrols. The city police 
force, which currently assigns only one car 
to the patrol which includes the campus, 
would take responsibility for general crime 
control. Taylor points out that City police______ continued on page 3
Dorm cooking privileges sought by MDC will be ruled on by the 
C-MU administration.
photo by Frank Stein
MDC To Request Dorm Cooking Rights
Amendments to the Mens DOR
MITORY HANDBOOK (to be printed 
within the next two weeks) will give resi
dent students new dorm privileges.
These Amendments says Mark 
Leinonen, A level floor counselor at 
Donner Hall and MDC representative, 
have been passed by MDC and are pen
ding approval by the Administration. 
Students will be allowed to use hot cups 
and popcorn poppers under 500 watts in
their dorm rooms. Also any student will be 
permitted pets in his room provided he 
submit a petition signed by everyone on his 
floor to MDC for approval. Name tags will 
be issued for these pets and the owner will 
be held responsible for any damages or 
extra maintenance costs resulting from the 
pet.
New bike locks, promised by MDC, are 
now in the Bookstore. The Bookstore is 
selling these 7 pin, Ace, fully hardened 
locks for only $9.00.
levels, basic questions of what they ac
tually measure in their inflated state will 
have to be answered, claims CIT-MIS 
Dean Robert Siekman. In four years, the 
cumulative average for incoming greshmen 
could reach from 2.95 to well above 3.0. 
Part of the change has resulted from a 
decision in the fall of 1968 to raise the 
minimum grade level to a height commen
surate with other schools in the country, 
2.0. The average grade level then rose to 
about 2.8. Other factors have kept the 
grade level rising, despite the fact that the 
desired level has already been reached.
Tables of various statistics show that the 
type of student at C-MU has changed re
latively little; the average score on tests 
such as the SAT has even declined slightly. 
Dean Seikman attributes the difference to 
changing ideas on the value of grades, often 
made unconsciously in the mind of the 
professors. He emphasized the loose knit 
nature of the university, stressing the ab
sence of any real power by any organi
zation to change grade levels.
Students are now having less trouble 
with job recruiters from companies com
paring them to students at other colleges. 
In the past, recruiters have taken the stu
dent from another institution with a higher 
grade average, all other qualifications being 
equal, despite frantic explanations by 
C-MU placement officers that lower C-MU 
grades actually measured comparable 
achievements. Placements Director J. 
Dennis Ryan attributed this to the lack of 
professionals among recruiters, most of 
whom have only one to two years ex
perience. The recent rise in grades has thus 
removed discrepancies among C-MU and 
other colleges, thereby eliminating the 
continued on page 6
GSIA Profs 
On Both Sides 
Of Ford Case
by Laurel Felix
GSIA lawyer Tom Kerr recently re
vealed the facts about an antitrust law 
suit in Federal court which is now in the 
process of appeal. This case, which is of 
national importance, involves a local Ford 
dealer, 22 Ford in Monroeville, and the 
Ford Motor Company. The dealer charged 
that Ford had violated the anti-trust laws 
of the U.S. in business dealings. He alleged 
that Ford and the rental car companies of 
Hertz and Avis had illegally fixed the price 
at which dealers could sell cars to Hertz 
and Avis and he charged tjat Ford Motor 
Co. had opened its own dealerships in and 
around Pittsburgh to unfairly compete 
with him.
Of interest to CMU is the fact that three 
professors from GSIA took part in pre
paration and presentation for each side in 
the lawsuit. Professor Richard Staelin and 
T.W. McGuire offered expert economic tes
timony in support of the plaintiffs case. 
Professor Kerr was legal consultant for 
plaintiff and offered oral arguments in 
court on the legal issues in the case.
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

Letters:
Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 3, 1972
editors note
Television reveals what dreadful people Americans are.
We smell bad. Our breath cowers our fiances and turns father against 
daughter. Our armpits and crotches reek. The situation is so bad we're 
now blessed with a deodorant called Body All for the total problem.
We are sickly. Headaches assail us whenever we somehow escape 
arthritis, colds, sore throats, hay fever and rheumatism. Constipation is 
such a national preoccupation, it is baffling why that old lady needs to 
smuggle (shh!) toilet paper; shell never need it. At least were sufficiently 
rested to pop our pills and swill our brews, for although we cant sleep, an 
aid is nearby; then there are always our (safe as directed) tranquilizers.
Women know their place. Husbands are free to make comments as, 
The way you make coffee it doesnt matter that weve run out. The. 
woman then admits that shes too good a wife not to want to make good 
coffee. And get the clothes soft and white, and get the floors shiny, and 
prepare a fine (synthetic) dinner. For these virtues we can forgive them 
such inadequacies as wearing their bras on top of their sweaters, spraying 
crotch deodorant on their wrists, and forgetting that their 18 hour girdles 
are in place.
We cannot enter an automobile without swiveling bucket seats to aid 
us. We must come up to the prestige of some better idea (breakaway 
rear wheels?) and be deemed inadequate if we cant afford such a rolling 
edifice. Indeed, when God and money fail, GM is something to believe 
in. 
The examples are endless. Models in diet commercials are invariably 
candidates for Nutrament, as well as setting impossible standards for us. 
Running why do you think they call it dope? commercials back to back 
with Nytol and Sleep-Eze must create some confusion.
Americans, especially youngsters, watch hours of this boorish, materialsitic, absurd hypochondria each week. One can only wonder, and fear, 
at the effects of this on the national character.
Steve Jurman
STAN VANN
74
Whatsoever that be within us that Feels, thinks, desires, and 
animates, is something celestial, divine, and, consequently 
imperishable.
Aristotle
Editor in Chief.....................Steve Jurman
Special Editor..........................Mina Gerall
News Editor................................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Ann Friedman, Laurel Felix, 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna, 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhaus, 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble 
Features Editor ..... . DaveGuida 
Features Staff . .  . . . Chris Infante 
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor...........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Ellio t Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Rick Werme, Nick Lardis 
Bruce Edelstein, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman 
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Kaywood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr, 
Stephen Hamm
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout .................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ..............................Mina Gtrall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
Editor:
The mention of letters from the Pitts
burgh Free Clinic and Planned Parenthood 
in your recent article Gynecologist Called 
For deserves some clarification. First, 
though the letter from the Free Clinic was 
addressed to Susan Christian, the one from 
Planned Parenthood was written to Margar
et Frederking, a student member of the 
Womens Monitoring Committee.
Planned Parenthood expressed the 
feeling that easy access to family planning 
services should be a part of student health 
care on campus and the importance of 
regular gynecological care for women of all 
ages.
The Pittsburgh Free Clinic Medical Co
ordinator, John Pfahler, Jr., stated: We 
prefer to see patients who have no other 
resources to obtain medical or health care. 
We also believe that the universities should 
be providing adequate health services to all 
of its students; this includes women; (men 
fortunately can obtain most of their health 
services from the university health services 
because of the nature of those services and 
possibly the sexist way in which they were 
developed).
Mr. Pfahler continued to say that the 
Free Clinic does not have the facilities or 
resources to pay for the care of all those 
who have requested it from us, simply be
cause it is more convenient or less hassle.
Both agencies indicated that they would 
not refuse service to anyone who presented 
herself or himself for medical care or coun
seling. Rather than relying on community 
health centers, it is hoped that C-MU stu
dents and administrators will develop their 
own sex education, counseling, and health 
program which will coordinate gyne
cological, contraceptive, and other sexoriented medical services for both sexes. 
Such a program is in line with others al
ready operating on campuses across the
country. Margaret Frederking
Susan Christian
Editor:
With regard to your article CMU 
linked to Skybus, you attributed to me 
the view that universities exist to serve 
the powerful. This is too extreme a view 
and one that I do not uphold. It is unclear 
why you attributed to me such a sweeping 
generalization about universities during an 
interview on the narrow subject of my rea
sons for opposing Skybus.
In any event, you do raise a complicated 
but important issue. Keep in mind, how
ever, that individuals at universities, inclu
ding CMU, have at times spoken out and 
written against the interests of the power
ful. Therefore, a more precise statement 
would seem to me to be the following: He
who pays the piper calls the tune and given 
the unequal distribution of wealth and in
come in American society, the wealthy call 
a lot more tunes on university campuses, 
and elsewhere I might add, then the poor 
and disinfranchised.
The source of money often determines 
the question that is asked and some ques
tions cannot be posed for lack of funds. 
The issue is not the quality of the answers 
nor the integrity of the investigator, but 
rather the self-serving nature and con
straints of the questions.
Leonard Rapping
Editor:
A recent decision was made by food 
service management with regard to cooking 
policies at the Tartan Grill. Food Service 
admininstration wants to imitate the prac
tice of having all food cooked and prepared 
ahead of time ready to be served in bags a 
la McDonalds. This is a great idea to cut 
down on time spent waiting for food, but 
is it worth the 5 minutes you save to get 
food that has been sitting around for peri
ods as long as an hour? I for one, would 
rather wait and see my food cooked fresh 
than get a dead, dried-out hamburger. 
Cooking food to order better serves the 
needs of people eating at the grill and im
proves the quality of the food. I work in 
the TartanIm not trying to knock it 
down but rather am trying to improve its 
service. The major point however is that 
Food Service would have been wise to poll 
its patrons as to their preference. There is 
still time to do so before such a practice is 
initiated and it would better benefit both 
the patrons and Food Service to do so.
Richard Weiss, 75
Editor:
Your editorial (September 26) opens 
new and perhaps dangerous ground. If I 
should defer to you (students) as my em
ployers, what obeisance do I owe the 
Board of Trustees or the Department of 
Defense, who are much more directly re
sponsible for a much larger part of my 
budget?
John Detwiler
(The employer concept is extreme 
and was utilized only because of the 
noted extreme behavior of the 
people to whom the remarks were 
directed. Ideally the student-faculty 
relationship should be a co-operative 
one in which neither dictates. The 
editorial was also an always needed 
reminder to the powers of the 
university that students own as much 
of a say in University affairs as any 
corporate contributor-ed.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972Page 3
This past August six of the outstanding 
C-MU Upward Bound students were se
lected to be in Carnegie-Mellon Action Pro
grams (C-MAP) Pace and Go program. The 
purpose of the program was to evaluate the 
skills of the incoming freshman and correct 
deficiencies in their weak areas.
Three students, Judy Searles and An
thony Patterson, both from Fifth Ave. 
High School, and Kenneth Bell, a junior 
from Westinghouse High School, carried 
full course load schedules, while the three 
other students carried only one course.
One of the students did above average 
work, claims a math instructor who was 
involved in the program. The two others, 
he added, benefited greatly from the pro
gram. Similar sentiments were voiced by 
one of the programs English instructors 
who felt that the students were all in the 
average or above catagories. He particularly 
noted their high aptitude in concep
tualization. All of the students felt that 
they were capable of keeping up.
The three other students in the program 
were Aleta Jackson, Kim Finch, and 
Helena Hardin O
I RUGS
for cto
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS $19 S29 $49
mmm Mi, 12*12*. 12x19% *.
 WMOUESAlf FURNfTURf 
KO ROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Piwdtf Cfcainv Mi% Chain
CHASES
542 WALNUT STRSET, SHADY SIDE
OMN DAILY 10 o.m. to 9 p.m. - 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p-ra.)
Mr hfcwHn ... Col 421-1023
Or, if you stump us with one of these questions, well give you the T-shirt for nothing.
1. What is sensitivity?
2. What does a muting control do?
3. What is a Hertz?
1. A car bearing a corpse
2. The number of back and forth 
vibrations of an AC signal in
1 second.
3. A national car renting company.
4. What docs the term selectivity mean?
5. The control that makes it possible to 
listen to the full range of sound when 
music is played at a low volume is called:
1. Range control.
2. Loudness contour control.
3. Volume control.
6. What purpose does a high filter 
control perform?
7. What are Baxandall controls?
8. What is a watt?
1. A unit of light.
2. A unit of power.
3. A unit of efficiency.
9. What is distortion?
10. How do the various power 
measurements, such as Peak-to-Peak, 
1HF, E1A and RMS relate to actual 
output power?
11. The ability of a speaker to follow 
low-frequency signals of large 
amplitude is called:
1. Transient response.
2. Compliance.
3. Efficiency.
12. What is the function of a 
crossover network?
13. What is meant by an acousticsuspension speaker system?
14. What are the advantages of a 
heavy turntable platter?
15. Wow and flutter are:
1. Changes in power output 
of an amplifier.
2. Distortion caused by variations
in turntable or tape deck motor speed.
3. Irregularities in the human voice.
16. What are the main benefits of 
electronics tuning?
1. More accurate than manual tuning.
2. Lower cost than manual tuning.
3. Provides convenient remote 
control tuning.
17. What does the term capture 
ratio mean?'
18. What is an IC?
19. What do tape monitor circuits do?
20. What is the TS-100?
r iff(/(//< ffflbfa/l-n
cfrocd
/fin' anil trivmlh Unumphere!
"STUDENT LUNCHEONVEGETARIAN DISHES
Weekdays: 11:30 am-10 pm  Weekdays 4 pm-10 pm 
404 S. CRAIG STREET PHONE: 682-2829
Election
continued from page 1
ranged was that it would get the members 
of Camegie-Mellons community involved 
in this very crucial election. The long 
range purpose, according to Lincoff, is the 
enhancement of the general political and 
social education of this community. In 
order for a participatory democracy to fun
ction, the people must learn to partici
pate, added Lincoff.
Dr. David Demarest, of the English De
partment, commented that this kind of 
university should cooperate with the 
Alliances suggestion in order to be con 
sistant with the general university policy of 
building effective citizens.
Asked to comment on the petition, Vice 
President for Academic Affairs, Edward 
Schatz replied that the university would 
be glad to accept it and will then discuss 
it with the Faculty Senate. The final de
cision will depend on the Senates reaction 
as well as the number of signers.
Mr. Schatz continued by pointing out 
that the same type of class suspension was 
tried two years ago, at which time the 
majority of students failed to participate in 
any kind of political action. Another con
sideration must be the effect of postponing 
vacation, added Mr. Schatz.
As of Wednesday evening there were 
468 signatures. Action by the admini
stration is forthcoming, at which time it 
shall be reported in the TARTAN.
Security
continued from page 1
men would have trouble finding theri way 
around the campus, and that Security of
ficers are more familiar with student beha
vior. If we see somebody walking across 
the campus at 3 am with a drafting board 
we dont assume immediately that he just 
ripped it off.
Campus policemen at the University of 
Pittsburgh have carried guns for several 
years. Joseph Gill, Superintendent of Po 
lice, reported no problems, saying, It 
seems natural. The expected image of a 
policeman includes a gun. 
need for large adjustments when comparing 
grades.
The rate of increase in grades should 
be slowed or stopped, taking care to main
tain C-MUs position in relation to other 
schools. A small amount of relative sanity 
to keep the grades within meaningful levels 
is all that is needed, added Siekman.
Anti-Trust
continued from page 1
On the other side, offering expert 
economic research and testimony on behalf 
of the defendent Ford Motor Co., were 
President-elect Richard Cyert, Professor M. 
Geisel, and R. Kaplan. All six are on the 
faculty at GSIA. After 29 days of trial, a 
jury of six women and six men returned a 
verdict in favor of the plaintiff. They 
judged that the plaintiff had been damaged 
$1,750,000. In private party anti-trust 
cases such as this one, damages are auto
matically tripled by law. The case, 
however, is by no means over as the defendents have asked the court to review the 
verdict and the right to appeal. An appeal 
would take approximately one to one and 
a half years.
Legal Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
C-MAP Program
Evaluated
by Brandon Dula
Introducing the Fisher TS-100 T-shirt.
Its at least a $3.50 value, as you know if youve 
priced T-shirts lately.
And were selling it to you for only $ l.
Not only that, but were making it easy for 
you to avoid paying anything for the T-shirt.A WHERE CONVENIENT CREDITi jf IS AVAILABLE\fJ\m N D E R
Just ask any Fisher salesman any of the twenty 
questions in this ad, and, if he doesnt know the 
answer, you win the shirt.
And we have a heart-to-heart talk with that salesman.
Note: If you want a copy of the official answers, 
ask any of the dealers listed below.
Eastland Shopping Plaza 
North Versailles, Pa. 15137
7901-7903 McKnight Road 
Ross Township, Pa. 15237
Monroeville Mall 
Monroeville, Pa. 15146
II sell uthis for$l

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 3, 1972
Classical Ravi Shankar Cheated By Drugged Audiences
by Paula Shubock
I had the strange but beautiful ex
perience of being with Ravi Shankar this 
past weekend. After a press conference, a 
fine concert at Heinz Hall, a reception and 
dinner with him and Alla Rakha (who 
plays Indian drums, or tabla), I am over
whelmed by the man both on and off
stage. He is an artist, a genius, in that there 
is no separation between him and his 
music-it bred him, and he is in turn pro
pagating it.
His is a natural music, growing through 
and beyond tradition. It has never been 
written, that is to say, translated to musical 
notationit is an extension and outgrowth 
of Indian music from the seventh to nine
teenth centuries. Even now he does not 
read music, but rather has studied patterns; 
the music is 90% improvisational. Alla 
Rakha has been with him since 1963; they 
grow together. Nodu Mullick, the third 
member of the Shankar ensemble, has close 
ties with them in that he studied with the 
same masterand hand-crafted the sitar 
Ravi Shankar plays today.
All speak English well, though they con
verse in native Indianbut Shankars speech 
is a blend of five languages. When very 
young he traveled in France as a dancer 
with his older brother Udays Company 
of Hindu Dancers and Musicians, but re
turned to India when invited by Allaudin 
Khan to become a student. (He later 
married this music gurus daughter). 
Baba, as he called him, has died sinceless than two weeks agoand so his concert 
here had a sad color. But his religiuos guru 
still influences him; the large diamond he
wears third finger, plucking hand was made 
to appear from nothing by spirit forces. 
It still shines with a red fire.
Americanand Englishis his most 
fluent foreign tongue; he has played to full 
houses hare since he first arrived in the 
1950s. The western cultural influence he 
readily acknowledges as having vastly 
changed Indian life; but he believes that it 
is for the worse. We have a poor picture 
of Americans; our younger people have ac
quired what is worst of the hippie move
ment. But of course they dress the same 
around the world. They have lost their 
taste for Indian custom, and what is bad, 
the picture that Americans have of our 
Indian way of life has been distorted by 
con-men who profess to know our customs 
in order to market cheap Indian things. 
The idea of marijuana and hashish as 
naturally accompanying and enhancing the 
Indian musical experience angers Shankar. 
In India, smoking is a low-class habit, For 
those who are too poor to afford alcohol. 
He cannot appreciate its attraction to the
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
Be Aware
Get your own subscription to TIME 
at special student rates.
At the bookstore or through 
the TIME representative on campus.
West. He feels cheated when his 
audience is stoned, He describes a natural 
high as resulting from his interaction with 
the audience; one must be properly 
attuned. His disciples, which as guru he 
calls his students, must give up any arti
ficial euphoria-inducers to be pure and to 
interpret the music.His favorite Western music is Baroque, he especially admires Bach. Though the 
Beatles, particularly George Harrison, made 
his name almost a household word, he is 
disappointed that his music is interpreted 
as pop rather than classical by his Ameri
can listeners. Though related to jazz in 
improvisation and in its wide appeal in 
India, it is still elitist in the sense that its 
growth is mainly through the efforts of a 
small group of master musicians.
As much as Shankar appreciated ex
posure to young Americans through festi
vals such as the Monterey Pop of 67 and 
Woodstock, he will not do another. He 
finds American concerts difficult; they are 
either too formal, or not formal enough. 
Indians consider seeing the soles of the feet 
an insult, during informal, sit-on-the-floor 
concerts this view is all too common, and 
the deeply-rooted annoyance interferes 
with necessary concentration. Smoking is
bothersome, first to smoke, and then to 
neck, and then they cant hear the music. 
Formal concert-hall performances create a 
cold theatrical distanceit is hard to build a 
rapport with an audience one cannot see. A 
middle ground, the men agree is best, as in 
India. Listeners sit, respectfully, close to a 
low dias; those with back trouble or tight 
skirts sit on chairs to the reat. All are 
invited to participate with interjections and 
an appropriate occasional clap. A decora
tive cloth covers the platform to make it 
home; they wear their own clothes, not 
costumes, for comfort. Ravi himself likes a 
close aura of fragrance in which to worl, so 
he holds cardamom seeds and cloves in his 
teeth. Indian surroundings, he says, bring 
to mind his heritage; incense is always 
burning on stage and while rehearsing or 
teaching. He encourages students to choose 
a special aroma in which to practice. He is 
a connoisseur of incense, finds American 
blends very poor. What is strawberry? 
His is a private blend of spices and per
fumes native to Beanres (Varanesi), holy 
Indian city where he was born 
(incidentally, in 1920). He is an Aries, 
fixed sign of the sun; Ravi is Indian for 
sun. And he shines on.
Ballet Theater Opens, 
With "Ninth Symphony
//
Human brotherhood, an ideal cherished 
by all mankind since the beginning of civi
lization, is celebrated in Beethovens mag
nificent Ninth Symphony, which will be 
performed as a ballet Friday evening, Octo
ber 6, and Sunday, October 8, when the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre opens its second 
season at Heinz Hall.
This performance brings together over 
300 talented professionals and three of the 
citys major cultural groups, the Pittsburgh 
Ballet, Mendelssohn Choir, and Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra under Director Mich
ael Semanitzky.
Never seen in this country as a ballet, 
the Pittsburgh premier of the Ninth will 
feature Dagman Kessler and Peter Schaufuss, stars of the London Festival Ballet. 
The entire 90 member company of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will dance during 
the three orchestral movements.
Analysis of the Ninth Symphony by 
avid musicologists has often pictured it as 
either a Christian document or a pagan 
celebration of beauty and goodness. Neith
er definition has been accepted over the 
centuries because all of Beethovens third 
period music is difficult to classify. Consi
dered the greatest of all the composers 
symphonic works, the Ninth is a gigantic 
extension of the spiritual awareness of 
man. It is not concerned with the creative 
aspirations of the individual, but rather
with the universal life itself.
Beethoven, in this rather mystical work, 
has explored to the utmost the three fun
damental ingredients of music. The first 
movement examines the potentialities of 
an interval, the second of rhythm and the 
third of melody. The choral Finale, set to 
the poet Schillers Ode to Joy, is a single 
outpouring of all that has gone before and 
will feature the Mendelssohn Choir.
Nicolas Petrov, Artistic Director of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, and Choreo
grapher for the Ninth Symphony says of 
this monumental somposition, Beetho
vens Symphony proceeds from chaos to 
order, for the First Movement signals the 
end of the world. This is not by a nuclear 
explosion of from a solar accident but it is 
treated as a spiritual eventuality. From this 
upheaval we come to the Second Move
ment with its freshness and gaiety, and, of 
course, the choral Finale which heralds the 
forces of regeneration and rebirth seen in 
the Scherzo. The entire Symphony offers 
rare and exciting dance possibilities for the 
entire company.
In addition to the Ninth Symphony, 
the program will include the Don Quixote 
Pas de Deux danced by Miss Kessler and 
Mr. Schaufuss, as well as the Fourth Act of 
La Bayadere revived by Alexander Filipov and performed by Eleanor DAntuono 
of the American Ballet Theatre partnered 
by Mr. Filipov.
THIS WEEK ON
PERSPECTIVE: C-MU
student government president
MIKE GARL
tune in 
call in 
Sunday at 6:15
WRCT/9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972Page 5
(KM, DAYthe opposite sex...
Can we get by sex roles and fears to find 
friendship?
We can try.
Sono Institute's one evening workshop is light-heated, 
insight-provoking ancl fun. You may learn new ways 
of
Making Friends with the Opposite Sex
Thursday, October 5, 7:30 ... SS
SONO INSTITUTE, 5417 Walnut St., SHADYSIDE 
Reservations: 687-3666
THE ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS
ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYNS
IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH
with TOM COURTENAY 
ALFRED BURKE / James Maxwell / Eric Thompson
Review Preview
Edward, Ro(j
Harding _ .
Setting& ueorge
Some of the glassworks currently on display at the Student Gallery. photo by Nick Lardas
IRUGG
by Stephen Hamm
The second show of the year at the 
Student Gallery opened on Monday, Sep
tember 25. Its title is Glass and there is 
some glass work on display, but the show is 
dominated by the work of four painters: 
Marty Schechter, Mark Mentzer, Odelle 
Abney, and Jim Dugas.
A large crowd turned out for the open
ing and the gallery was clogged so that you 
had to get up close to a painting to see it. 
And the bodies and noise made it hard to 
concentrate on the work, but despite the 
poor viewing conditions the work of two 
of the artists, Jim Dugas and Odelle Ab
ney,''stood out as excellent. Dugas work is 
a collection of small drawings, acrylics on 
glass and canvas, and silk screens. The glass 
paintings are the best. Dugas works on the 
back of the glass giving the one dimen
sional color designs depth and an illusion 
of transparency. Then he breaks up the 
irregular shapes of the painted surface by 
interjecting geometric forms. The synthesis 
of the two modes gives the pieces move
ment and even more depth. His style is 
unique and stimulated intense discussions 
of aesthetics wherever people gathered in 
the gallery. Phrases like organic unity 
and getting back to th? basics of paint 
were heard. One conversation ended when
the consideration of the anthropological 
history of Mankind came up as a key point 
in the discussion. The phenomenon of 
mingling served up a moveable feast of 
words and ideas that was sometimes hard 
to swallow. The art was easier to consume 
and digest.
Odelle Abneys paintings were the topic 
of a lot of discussion and they warranted 
the attention they got. He showed three 
large acrylic canvasses which had qualities 
of suggestion that elicited comments like, 
theyre almost erotic, His work is basi
cally abstract but he manifests forms and 
colors that intimate real objects. Part of 
one of the paintings looks like a human fist 
at one moment and later the same shape 
suggests a hunk of guts. Viewed once more, 
something entirely different is suggested. 
\n addition to this quality, Abneys pain
tings possess an emotional aspect that is 
missing in the other work. He seems to 
have found a balance between technique, 
intellect, and feeling in what he is doing.
Over-all, the Glass show is good. 
Competent organization and fine material 
have made it that. Predictably, the show is 
best when the gallery is almost empty, 
which is most of the time except for 
opening night. The show will continue at 
the Student Gallery until October 7.
by Arnie Karr
It is difficult to give your all when the 
acoustics are poor and the audience is 
absent. Yet, EDWARD, HARDING and 
GEORGE did just that last weekend on 
four different occasions; twice on Friday 
night, September 29, and twice again on 
Saturday night in the Wherrett Room of 
Skibo.
On Friday night, these three Canadians 
played at the Cats Cradle and competed 
against the Rolling Stones, who were per
forming on celluloid in Doherty Hall. 
Those who attended were pleasantly sur
prised. There was very little publicity and 
no one had any reason to expect E, H,& G 
to be any more exciting than the Skibo 
jukebox, which has done to Slippin Into 
Darkness what AM radio did to Layla.
The surprises started coming 
immediately. The trios rendition of Seals 
and Crofts Gabriel was very well sung 
and the two guitars and bass were well 
coordinated. Though slightly imitative, the 
overall effect was rather exciting and al
most as refreshing as the original.
The group shifted back and forth be
tween lyrical and musical emphasis. Since 
You Said I Love You, an original com
position, has a tremendous rhythm to it, 
practically a folk-funk.
Edward, Harding and George have been 
together for only eleven months, yet their 
music is mature, sensitive and progressing 
well. Their presentation could stand some 
polish, but Im sure that as they play more 
together, this will develop. The group is 
innovative, supplementing their fine, well 
regulated guitar work with mandolin, re
corder, 12-string electric guitar and their 
own straight-from-the-mouth whistling. 
They are also learning about audiences, 
different types of music and themselves. 
Since commencing their touring career, 
they have performed in and around their 
home town of Toronto, as well as in New 
England, Pennsylvania and New York, 
where they recently played to packed 
houses for three days in Cobleskill. At a 
concert in Hartford, Connecticut, they 
were billed with Jerry Jeff Walker. Their 
version of his Mr. Bojangles is parti
cularly good, maintaining the sincerity and 
involvement of the original, while escaping 
the overdone commercial potential of 
the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band hit.
From Pittsburgh, the three will be 
touring in Central Pennsylvania, Virginia 
and Tennessee.
The networks hate to work with me, 
says Rod Serling. They hire me...then 
close their eyes.
Serling created the long-running Twi
light Zone TV series and was the on
screen host of Night Gallery, the TV 
series of tales from the inner man and 
outer space. He also wrote such TV highscoring dramas as A Storm in Summer, 
Requiem for a Heavyweight and 
Patterns and the big screen plays Seven 
Days in May and Planet of the Apes.
A partial list of his honors reflects the 
mans genious as a creative writer - he has 
received six Emmies for TVS Best Dra
matic Awards; the Christopher Prize and 
the first Peabody Award ever presented to 
a writer.
Yet executives, sponsors and producers 
are wary of this accomplished writer. He 
says it is because they know Im tempermental, irrascible, controversial-and a per
fectionist. Despite such problems, Rod 
Serling offers himself as an enthusiastic 
apologist and champion of what he calls 
the little screen and big screen: the 20th 
century art form. In 25 years of writing 
Ive been part of-and Ive been impressed 
by-the way film relates to the times. Right 
now, film is reflecting the cycle of re
levancy, says Serling. No other art form 
matches it.
To date, Rod Serlings list of TV credits 
numbers more than 200 plays on every 
major television dramatic show. He also has 
a pocketful of career distinctions: he wrote 
the first original ninety-minute drama 
created especially for television-the widely 
acclaimed Requiem for a Heavyweight. 
His script, Patterns, presented by the 
Kraft Television Theatre, was the first live 
TV drama to be repeated in the history of 
television.
Because of his tremendous impact on 
the television industry, Rod Serling is the 
first writer ever to be elected National Pre
sident of the Academy of Television Arts 
and Sciences, a post he held for two years.
Rod Serling will present a lecture, en
titled THE 20TH CENTURY AND 
OTHER INSANITIES, at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, on the 14th of October, at 8 
P.M., in the Skibo Ballroom.
Draft Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Oct. 6, 7and 9  Doherty Hall 2210  50< with AB Card

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 3, 1972
Computation Center News
Tektronix Graphic Terminal Installed
The Computation Center has installed a 
Tektronix graphic display terminal in the 
terminal room on the fifth floor of Science 
Hall. The Tektronix combines all the abil
ities of a teletype with a facility for dis
playing pictoral information such as graphs 
or charts. It uses a cathode ray storage tube 
to provide a screen on which text and 
graphics are electronically displayed.
The Tektronix was installed to aid cus
tomers who use the CalComp plotter. They 
can now preview their plots on the Tek
tronix before submitting them to the plot
ter. The tektronix can also provied a hard 
copy of whatever is on its screen. In some 
cases, this might completely eliminate the 
need for conventional plotting.
Using this plot previewing facility is 
very simple. The Computation Center has 
created a program that takes plot datasets 
created on either the 360 or the 1108 and 
plots them on the Tektronix. The program 
is called REFMT8. To plot a VS dataset 
named PLOTDS, the customer enters the 
following commands:
DDEF FT07F001,VS,PLOTDS 
REFMT8
The program will automatically process 
the records of the plot dataset, PLOTDS, 
and plot them on the Tektronix. If the 
dataset to be plotted is VI, you mist first 
enter the command DEFAULT 
FTNVIIN=VI.
Although the Tektronix was primarily 
intended as an extension to the facilities 
available to customers who use the plotter, 
it has the potential to do much more. Cus
tomers can also use a system of FORTRAN 
subroutines called TEKPLOT to write their 
own graphics programs. These subroutines 
can be called by the customers program to 
provide both graphic and alphanumeric in
put and output.
To input graphic information, a routine 
is called that draws crosshairs on the 
screen. A joystick is then used to move the 
crosshairs to the desired point. Any key on 
the keyboard is then pressed and the cur
rent position of the crosshairs is transmit
ted as an ordered pair of numbers.
The Tekplot system is documented in 
the TEKPLOT USERS GUIDE available in 
the bookstore. The routines themselves can 
be accessed by entering the following com
mands:
SHARE USER,SSOO,USER (if you 
have not already done so)
DDEF DDN AME,VP,USER. 
TEKPLOT,OPTION=JOBLIB 
Detailed instrudtons for operating the ter
minal will be found beside it.
There will be no additional charge for 
use of the Tektronix for the next few 
weeks, but a charge will be added in the 
future.
6rides
continued from pagel
need for large adjustments in comparing 
grades. The rate of increase in grades 
should be slowed or stopped, taking care to 
maintain C-MUs position in relation to 
other schools. A small amount of relative 
sanity to keep the grades within meaning
ful levels is all that is needed, added 
Siekman.
The LIST Command
The Typeset command LIST enables 
you to print existing datasets (both Type
set and TSS) on the machine room line 
printers. Your output will be filed under 
your customer number in the third floor 
customer area shelves. The form of the 
LIST command is exactly the same as that 
of the PRINT command available on TSS; 
the simplest form is:
LIST dsname 
where dsname is the name of the dataset 
to be printed.
When a LIST command is issued whan 
you are in VERIFY mode (which is the 
usual case), a batch sequence number 
(BSN) is assigned to your print request. 
This BSN will be printed at the terminal if 
issued from a batch job. In either case, a 
separate listing will be printed for each 
LIST issued.
If a colon is printed instead of either the 
message BSN=nnnn where nnnn is the 
actual batch sequence number or the mes
sage PRINT IS QUEUED, then the LIST 
command was entered incorrectly. You 
should issue the command again after cor
recting your error.
Rate Schedule
All of the parameters of the TSS PRINT 
command can also be specified with the 
LIST command. For information on these 
parameters, read the section on the PRINT 
command in TSS Documentation 6, TSS
photo by Greg Nickel
FORTRAN 1/0: Using Datasets for Input 
and Output. Additional parameters are 
specified just as for the PRINT commandwith or without keywords and separated 
by commas.
The following rate schedule went into effect 
schedule are marked with arrows.
Oct. 1, 1972. Changes from the last
IBM 360/67 TSS
Base Charge$l/custno/i
Connect Time
General TSS Class R$4.50/hour
Class S*$10/hour
Class T**$25/hour
MTT-APL$.25/hour
MTT-TYPESET-RUNOFF-RJE$.25/hour
CPU Time
Conversational:
Public MTT-APL-TYPESETRUNOFF-RJE$180/hour
Class R + Private IfTT$150/hour
Class S*$270/hour
Class T**$420/hour
4- Batch:
Class A$225/hour
Class B$150/hour
Class C$110/hour
Class D$75/hour
Class S Command$2/command
Class T Command$5/command
Card Input$.001/card
Card Input Surcharge$1/j ob
Off-Line Storage 
Page Requests (no.
of requests) 
Printing
Print Job Surcharge 
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
Read Tape Coamand
$.0005/page/day 
$.000005/hr. CPU 
time/request 
$.01/page i 
$.0006/line 
$.25/job 
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$10/command
+ $.001/record*
(There is no 
charge for jobs 
printed on the 
customer printer)
$5/request 
$.01/page i
$.0012/line 
$1/mount 
$7.50/request
Special Print Train 
Printing by Special 
Train H
Tape Mounting 
Special Ribbon Mount
with special print train 
Special Ribbon Mount $10/request 
without special print train 
Tape Storage $.50/tape/month
(1 mo. increments)
Tape Drive Use $10/hour
(1/4 hr. increments)
Tape Library Entrance
(There is no surcharge on decks read in 
by the customer on the card reader.) 
On-Line Storage
Non-migratable $.015/page/day
Migratable $.007/page/day
Fee**
THAW Command 
THAW Later Command 
Use of Unlined 
White Paper 
Virtual Memory 
Conversational 
Batch****
?Class S - higher priority conversational CPU Time only. $2 Surcharge/command.
**Class T - higher priority conversational and compute-bound CPU Time. $5 Surcharge/command. 
***A11 tapes must be entered in the tape library. If a reel is submitted for a job
and then returned to the customer, the library entrance fee ($2) and the tape storage 
fee (.50) will be charged for each submittal. ^
****Page hours batch  page hours x CPU Time (hours) x 
#Page count is by page eject or every 66 lines.
$2/entry 
$2.50/command 
$.50/command
$5/request
$.01/page hour 
$.01/page hr. batch
habitation time
WATFTV, PLC & PLAGO
CPU Time
Compile Time
Up to 2 seconds $180/hour
Over 2 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour 
Execution Time (3 sec. max.)
Up to 1 second $180/hour
Over 1 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour
PDP-8 TSS/8
Printing
4 pages or less 
Over 8 pages 
Card Reading
128 cards or less 
Over 128 cards
$.02/page 
$.08/page
$.0005/card 
$.001/card
Base Charge 
Connect Time
No charge Storage $.002/segment(256 words)/day
$.25/hour CPU Time $9/hour
4-Please note that Batchy classes formerly designated F, F and A have been changed 
to A, B and C, respectively.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972Page 7
EXTENSIONS TO UNITREC
. Attention All Students:
Did you know that you have free com
puting time available to you under the gen
eral student self-education account, Y415? 
Every Carnegie-Mellon student is automat
ically allocated approximately $1 of com
puting time every month. This allocation 
can be used on the three card systems 
available on IBM 360 (WATFIV, PL/C, and 
*2? PLAGO), and it is enough to run up to ten 
jobs. It can also be used on the PDP-8 
time-sharing system. The funds must be 
used during the month for which they are 
allocated; they do not accumulate from 
one month to the next. Your costomer 
number, which you need to gain access tc 
the computer, is posted on the bulletin 
board inside the door to the keypunch area 
r on the third floor of Science Hall. Your 
Y415 customer number will be different 
from the customer number you have tor 
any other accounts. Your initial password 
is your student number. But you should 
change your password immediately in or
der to protect your account. If you have 
not taken a programming course, docu
ments available in the bookstore can help 
you to learn these systems so that you can 
take advantage of the facilities of the ComPDP-11 Now Handles Remote Terminals
On October 1, a PDP-11 computer took 
over the job of communicating between 
remote terminals (tetelypes or 2741s) and 
the IBM 360. This function had formerly 
been performed by an IBM 2703. At pres
ent, the PDP-11 merely substitutes for the 
2703, but it is capable of doing much more 
than that. A few changes resulting from the 
conversion will affect customers imme
diately:
Connection Message:
When you connect to the computer, the 
message CMU Computation Center 
LINE=nnnn is printed out. In the actual 
message, nnnn will be replaced by the 
number of the line connecting your termi
nal to the computer.
Full Duplex Mode:
All teletypes now operate in full duplex 
mode. This means that when you press a 
key on the teletype, the character is sent to 
the PDP-11, which stores it and sends the 
character just received back to the teletype 
printer. The characters on the teletype are 
actually printed by the PDP-11. This pro
cess causes a slight delay between the time 
you type a character and the time it is
printed out, but it provides more flexibility 
in the handling of special characters like 
tabs.
Because teletypes operate in full duplex 
mode, the acoustic couplers used with 
dial-up teletypes must be switched to full 
duplex instead of half duplex as before.
Tab Characters:
The PDP-11 s ability to echo characters 
lets it print tab characters. This facility 
works as follows on teletypes:
1) A tab character entered at a teletype 
is received and stored as a tab character, 
just as before.
2) The PDP-11 echoes a number of 
spaces in response to each tab character. 
These physical tabs are set at every eighth 
space, so the carriage spaces over to the 
next position that is a multiple of eight.
3) While the carriage is spacing for a tab, 
any character except another tab may be 
entered. If a second tab is entered while 
the carriage is still spacing for the first one, 
the second tab is ignored.
putation Center.
Job Surcharge 
CPU Time - Class D:
CPU Time Used
0-1 minute
1-2 minutes
2-4 minutes 
4-10 minutes 
10-24 minutes 
24-48 minutes 
over 48 minutes
UNIVAC 1108 EXEC II 
$1/job
Charge
$420/hour
$7/first min. + $300/hour/each additional min. 
$12/first 2 min. + $150/hour/each additional min.
4 min. + $60/hour/each additional min.
+ $30/hour/each additional min. 
+ $75/hour/each additional min.
$17/first 
$23/first 10 min.
$30/first 24 min.
$60/first 48 min. + $150/hour/each additional min.
Class A: 2.0 times Class D
Class B: 1.3 times Class D
Class C: 1.1 times Class D
)
PRINTING*, PUNCHING, CARD INPUT AND TAPE HANDLING 
charges are the same as for the 360. At present, 
there is no charge for tape drive use on the 1108.^gee 350)
*There is no print job surcharge for jobs printed at the customer printer, 
customer is responsible for retrieving his output from this printer.
The
PLOTTER - CALCOMPHYBRID EAI 680/PDP-9
Job Surcharge $l/job
Plotter Use $2/hour
Plotter paper (12" vide) $.02/inch 
Colored Ballpoint $2/job
y Liquid Ink $10/job
Felt Tip Pen $3/job
(There is no charge for mounting the 
standard plot tape for plotter output 
either the 360 or the 1108.)
UNITREC - Duplicating and Listing Service
Computer Use:
First shift weekdays
Second and third shift 
weekdays, weekends, 
legal holidays 
Patch Boards 
Strip Recorder Paper
$20/hour (1/4 
hr. increments)
$10/hour (1/4 
hr. increments) 
$l/day 
$.05/inch
on
Printing $.04/page
(Jobs submitted at the customer card reader
are printed at the WATFIV printer.)
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
Card Input
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$.001/card
Account Number
Creation of New Accounts
Addition of Customer to Existing Acct
Reallocation of Funds Between Accounts
Locker Storage*
J Programming Consultation
Other Charges and Services
$2/account number/month 
$5 + $l/customer number
$2/customer number 
$l/transfer
$3/Fall Semester; $3/Spring Semester; 
$3/Summer; $5/Full Year 
$3 1/4 hour
(Limited use only. Non-occasional demand will be referred to Programming Services.) 
Programming and Engineering Service* $10/hour and up
(Limited availability. Rate will be based on personnel involved.)
Acoustical Couplers* Approximately $300
Teletype Purchase* Approximately $650
(Requests for maintenance or information about purchase of teletypes should
be directed to the Computation Center, Ext. 195) <----
Maintenance of Teletypes*(Model 33 only.) $10/hour + materials
J Special Handling $5/request/minimum
(Special requests will be honored whenever possible. A $5 minimum will be charged for 
any request honored, and up to $25 may be charged without consulting the requester.) 
PDP-11 Paper Tape Reader $5/surcharge; $10/hour (1/4 hour increments)
Tape Cleaning $2.50/tape
Tape Cases* $3.25 - available in Science Hall 5216
Available from the Bookstore*: 24001 magnetic tapes for the 1108 and 360/67;
DEC tapes for the PDPr8, PDP-9, and PDP-11; teletype roll paper; and teletype ribbon
 *CMU computing funds cannot be used for these services. Any other source may
Several extensions have been added to 
UNITREC to give it all the capabilities of a 
514 Reproducer. Now, in addition to 
punching and listing, UNITREC can selec
tively reproduce, gang punch, and Inter
sperse gang punch. To use these extensions, 
an additional parameter (CTL) must be 
specified on the SDUP card. Either PRINT 
or PUNCH or both must also be specified 
to determine the destination of the output 
records. When the CTL parameter is speci
fied on the SDUP card, all following cards 
until the next with a $ in column one are 
taken as additional control cards.
A UNITREC job that used the CTL 
parameter would have the following for
mat:
BATCH UNITREC
SDUP acctno/custno, password, PRINT, 
PUNCH, CTL
(additional control cards)
$
(cards to be processed)
BATCHEND
There are four additional control cards: 
1) Selective Reproduction. The format of 
the control card is: AxxyyXXYY.
This card directs the Information in col
umns xx to yy of the Input records to be 
put in columns XX to YY of the output 
records. To have the information from col
umns 1-20 of each Input record put in 
columns 61-80 of the corresponding out
put record, you would use the card 
A01206180. Note that blanks can NOT 
be used instead of zeroes. All numeric 
fields must contain a digit (0-9). As many 
selective reproduction cards as desired can 
be included after the SDUP card as long as 
their output fields (cols. XX-YY) do not 
overlap.
2) Gang Punching
Any card whose first character is not an 
A, a G, a period (.), or a dollar sign ($) is 
taken as a gang punch control card. The 
information in each column of the gang 
punch control card will be placed in the 
corresponding column of every output 
record.
3) Special Gang Punching
To gang punch an A, a G, a period, or a 
dollar sign in column one, the gang punch 
control card must be immediately preceded 
by a special control card with a period in 
column one. When a card with a period in 
column one is found, the next card is inter
preted as a gang punch control card, re
gardless of its contents.
4) Interspersed Gang Punching
The format of the control card is 
GxxyyXXYYcZZ.
This card allows the gang punched infor
mation to be changed during a run. The 
card directs UNITREC to look in column 
ZZ of each input record for the control 
character c. When the specified control 
character is found in the specified column, 
the information in columns xx to yy of the 
next card is established as the gang punch 
field and it put in columns XX to YY of all 
subsequent cards until another input con
taining a control character is found.
Notes on Usage
Note that for interspersed gang punch
ing, whatever character is in the control 
character field of the control card becomes 
the control character. If the control 
character field is left blank, a blank will be 
used as the control character. An error will 
result if the output fields of two selective 
reproduction cards overlap. But, if the out
put field of a selective reproduction card 
overlaps information in a gang punch con
trol card, the character specified by the 
selective reproduction card REPLACES the 
gang punch characters and no message is 
produced. The input fields of two selective 
reproduction cards MAY overlap. This 
means that the information in selected col
umns of the input records can be placed in 
more than one set of output columns.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972
A real stay millions of 
people refuse to believe
SHADYSIDE THEATRE ... 2nd Week
WALNUT STREET - 682-1901
You've newer seen a 
movie like itMARJOE
Produced and Directed by Howard Smith and Sarah Kernochan [pqj
A CmeVest-Maxpal Production. A Cinema 5 Release
When in Southern California visit Universal Studios
WINNER 1972 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL JURY PRIZE AWARD
Only American Film to be so Honored
A GEORGE ROY HILL PAUL MONASH PRODUCTION
SLAUGHTERHOUSEFIVE
One ot the
most darng,
; original and 
totaHytascinatmg
 pictures ever 
made.
ReViToaiiv Ne*s
Starring MICHAEL SACKS  RON LEIBMAN  VALERIE PERRINE
Based on tfw noni by KURT VONNEGUT. Jr.  Screenplay by Sientan Gellf Directed by Geoije Roy Hill Ptoduce by Pool Moiwsh ^ - _ ,n..ii.i.  Music by Glenn GotiW  A Uniersi Pictwe * TECHNICOLOR*FIESTA
NOW SHOWING 
Downtown 281-1213
ARE YOU READY FOR ALL THIS?
The C-MU Activities 
Board presents
thePAULWINTERCONSORT
Saturday, Oct. 7 
8:30 p.m.
SKIBO BALLROOM 
Tickets:
FREE with CMU ID$1.50 without
INSTRUMENT KEY
1. ENGLISH HORNC,ordet
2. OBOE bx Loiee
.V CELLOVienna, ci ica 1750 
4 TABLA AND BAYAN by Xibnnkar, Bombay
5. ELECTRIC BASS by Vender
6. CLASSICAL GUITAR by Jose Ramirez
7. STEEL STRING GUITAR by S\licbacl tintm 
8 12-STRING GUITAR by uild
9. SOPRANO SAX by Seltner
Kl. SURDOS Sel oj 7 Lscola da Samba Drum*. Rio de Janeiro
11. SITAR by Radakrishnan, Calcutta
12. KALIMBA Ajiic<m Thumb-Piano by Hutfh Tiacey
I 3. REGAL rt'f>ii>i/nclii>ii of Renaissance Reaal by A'odcfc Or<Mi i.o.
14 GRAND CASA by Stingerland
15. SNARE DRUM by (jrctscb ; Gladstone)
16. CYMBALS by Zildjian
17. TRAPS BASS DRUM by (jtelsch
18. MRIDANGAM South Indian C oncert Drum. JLidras
19. AMADINDA Ihuindiiii Xylophone by Andrew and Jaul Tracey
20. CONTRABASS SARRUSOPHONE by ( ouesnon. Pans {I9th Centuryj
21. SOGO ( eiemonial Di um. Live Tube, (hana*
22. KAGAN Ceicmomal Umm, we Tribe, ()hana
23. CONGA by Znnaai. fC,orde
24. ATUMPAN Piiii oj Talkuiil Diums. Ashanti Tube, (jbiina
25. ASAFO Pan oj llatnnui hi urns, Tanh Tribe, (hana,
2b. AXATSE Beaded Cjourd. fare Tube, (/liana
27. GANKOGUI Double Veil, tee Tube, i/lwiui (hidden behind classical guitar)
28. TAMBOURINE by Studio 49
29. BUSH ORGAN by Pearl Rivet, Melbourne, Australia
30. KETTLEDRUMS by Hunter Touch-tone
31. CROTALES Antique ( ym/nils by Zildjian
32. DONNO Sijueeze-Drum, (jbana
33. AFUCHE, Beaded Coconut, Brazil
34. DARBUKE Israeli Jar-Drum. Jet Aviv
35. BASS MARIMBA by Deaifan (courtesy C.airoll Music. Af.Xj
36. CUECA Brazilian Talknui Drum, Rio de Janeiro not pictured)
37. WUHAN GONG China (not pictured)
38. RESONATOR GUITAR{cotitlwy oj Paul Piestopmo not pictured.
39. WHOLE EARTH FLAG by Whole Carth Catalogue
40. CONSORT BANNER by Arlene Osifood and ,"Wiiry Lou Albereiti
*(Drums o) (/hana courtesy oj Abraham Kiibniti Adzenvah. H o) (/hana. Accra)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972Page 9
- Announcements:
On Saturday, October 14, 1972 from 8 to
10 p.m. at The Soldiers and Sailors Memo
rial Hall, 5th Avenue, Pittsburgh, Penn
sylvania, The Irish Centre of Pittsburgh will 
"fcst a Male and Female Group of eighteen 
(18) trained, top-rated Entertainers, direct 
from Ireland, who will perform as Singers, 
Dancers, also Violin, Piano, Flute, Tin 
Whistle, Accordian, and Ulean pipe players.
The Men's Dorm Council will show "Von
Ryan's Express" on Saturday, October 7, 
in D.H. 2210. Showings are at 5:30, 8, and 
*30:30 p.m.
Jazz Workshop will be held again Sunday,
October 8 from 4 to 7 p.m. in the Kiltie 
Coffeehouse. Bring your instruments and 
join in, or just come and listenit makes 
great dinner music. Sponsored by the 
YWCA.
7
Society of Physics Students will hold a
membership meeting for payment of na
tional dues ($5) for new members and re
newals of old members, on Thursday, Oc
tober 5. Times: 12:30 and 4:30 pm in SCH 
6325. Come to meeting at that time that 
fits your schedule.
United Artists Records and WRCT present
George Gerdes and Spencer Davis live in 
concert Monday evening, October 9, in the 
Skibo Ballroom. There is no admission 
charge. The event is faci I litated through the 
Activities Board Programming Fund.
The Chatham-C-MU German Film Series
will present on Wednesday, October 11,
 Hokus pokus'', a comedy by Curt Goetz. 
The film will be in Porter Hall 100 at 7:45. 
No admission charge.
Cafe Tel Aviv sponsored by B'nai Brith
Hillel will hold its grand opening Wed
nesday October 4 from 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. in 
the Y-IKC, 1st floor, 315 S. Bellefield. It 
will feature Hot sandwiches of Kosher 
corned beef, balogna, and salami. Also 
music and films. On October 11 at 1 p.m. 
Cafe Tel Aviv will feature Shlomo Carle 
bach, Jewish Soul Singer. No admission 
charge.
BETOS PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
1
11 pm-l am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
The Women's Club of CMU will honor Mrs.
Richard Cyert, wife of the new CMU 
president, at a tea held at 3 pm, 
Wednesday, October 4 at the Women's 
Club House, 15 Roselawn Terrace. Also 
honored are women joining the CMU 
faculty and wives of new faculty members.
People are needed to meet with a Christian
group of Western Penitentiary inmates on 
Sundays. They need the outside contact. 
Call 621-2600, ext. 633 of 621-6760.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold a party for all
college students, Saturday night, October
7, 9 pm at the Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 
Y-ICK, 315 S. Bellefield.
SPIRIT PRESENTS: BLACK FASHION
EXTRAVAGANZA
Sunday October 8, 1972
5:30 p.m.
SKIBO BALLROOM 
Coordinator Sandra Sowell, Assit. Bill 
James. Total Campus Welcome. Fashions 
are from the House of Nine.
The fourth annual CMU Film Festival will
hold its first organizational meeting on 
Wednesday, October 4 at 7:00 in Room 46 
of Skibo. All people interested in submit
ting films or helping to run the festival 
should attend.
Taking the GRE exams? An organizational
meeting for a series of seminars to prepare 
for the GREs, sponsored by the electrical 
engineering honorary Eta Kappa Nu will be 
held on Thursday, October 5 tentatively 
scheduled for Science Hall 7500. Inquires 
should be directed to J. Bloom, Box 561.
y^5hop\
/x\ovt for giftsX
5^ / election '72 \
/ memarabalia,, \ 
wearables, art objects 
Your buying dollars
Wl will help elect
McGovern & Shriver.
^ \ OAKLAND
_ \ 10-9 Daily /
\ N. Craig Street^/P x McGovernC ShriverBOUTIQUE
Student tickets for "Under the Gaslight",
by Gustin Daly, the first mainstage produc
tion of the Drama Department, will be 
available between 3:30 and 5 pm on Tues
day, October 3 and Wednesday, October 4. 
They may be picked up in the hall in front 
of the Drama Office, CFA 108. One ticket 
per ID card, limit 2 tickets per student.
Friday, October 6, SON OF MOVIE
ORGY is coming to C-MU. This wild 
nostalgic filmic revival is sponsored by the 
Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company, and is being 
presented here by the Activities Board. The 
three and one-half hours of mind-blowing 
thrills gets underway at 9:30 p.m. in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Admission is FREE.
Classified Ads:
For sale: 1) Phonograph radio TV com
bination $45, 2) Gold upholstered rocking 
chair $12, 3) Gold living room chair $10, 
421-7038.
Dancing  Group Instruction, Ballroom,
latin, discotheque, variety dances. "Learn 
latest dances" at YICK, Squirrel Hill. En
roll now. Steve Bayer 621-6500.
to
Needed: Leaders for social development
groups at the Y-ICK for grades 1-12. Call 
Elaine Ziegler at 521-8010.
Wanted: A guitar teacher (girl student
preferred) to teach a 7 year old girl. If 
interested please call: Dr. D. de Torok, 
362-8462. Want lessons to begin 
immediately.
Needed: a caracturist to draw up political
satire cartoon in conjunction with .Tartan 
political commentator. After 9 pm, ask for 
Jim, 371-3468.
Lost: silver ring with black stone, Friday,
22nd in Porter 125D' Extremely depressed 
over loss. If found call Marc 687-2736, 
reward.
Reward: Umbrella fetishist seeks return of
lost object of passion. 681-9294.
Personals:
Marge is beautiful and talented and I'm just
a poor working slob. But it could work. 
Sledge Hammer
Dead Chickens on a cold summer eve,
Counting tiles and cracking nuts,
Without the choice of vegetable,
Or a pig to call your own.
Lone
Soggy wafers and graham crackers, 
Falsetto gespranchne ohne den Glitzfried,
Going through a bed of grass,
Eating only sassafrap. Ranger
i 6GSMlullMjtaJ ffldlW0@(
BIRTH CONTROL HANDBOOK
KFREE
SKIBO INFO. DESK
Dr. Cyert vs. Student Senate
Dr. Cyert, President of C-MU Will Meet With the C-MU Student 
Senate on Tuesday, October 3, at 4:30 in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. They Will Discuss the Problems Between Students and the 
New Administration. All Students Are Invited to Attend.
C

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANTuesday, October 3,1972
Foot Stompin' Muzak
by Craig Collins
Nostalgia is supposedly reserved for the 
insecure and elderly, to be used as an es
cape from the horrors of the day. People 
calling themselves realists condemn the 
past: It traps you in its state of former 
reality, not allowing you to function in 
todays world. Weve all heard the tirades. 
Yet most of us recognize that in society 
there are certain situations where a look 
back becomes necessary, if only to see 
what has been lost.
Such a need to return is evidenced by 
one hour of listening time on any commerical radio station today. Never have 
oldies sounded so good in comparison to 
the music currently on the playlists. The 
trend seems to be worsening. Our ears, 
spoiled by 1960s rock, are being deadened 
by 1970s muzak.
Many people have compared the rise of 
rock with the ascent of the Beatles, but 
few have looked at what has happened 
since the decline of the group. The Beatles 
were readily adopted by the teens of 1964, 
grew up with them and sent Sgt. Pepper to 
follow them into college, becoming the 
symbols and mainstays of the musicoriented masses until their dissolution. 
There was a great deal of trust in rock at 
that time: if nothing else, one could be 
sure of the Beatles. Lyrics from rock songs 
became popular for reminding yourself 
that love is all you need, and especially for 
enhancing the feeling of being joyous or 
sad.
The Beatles provided a wide variety ot 
mood music: one could contemplate while 
listening to Within You, without You, 
dance to Lady Madonna, clap hands and 
sing to Hey Jude. Their songs were al
ways good for nostalgic associations as 
well. Almost everyone has some event or 
feeling that the playing of She Loves 
You or Strawberry Fields Forever 
brings to mind.
Now its been stolen away from us. 
Dope continues to hold intrigue for the 
lingerers-on, but smoke is no replacement 
for a mood-elevating album by John, Paul, 
et al.
So where have they gone? Lennons last 
album shows his lack of concern for per
forming quality music: Yokos hellish 
warblings appear throughout. John appar
ently feels that his music now must be 
justified by a cause. The fun is removed, 
leaving chords, Klaus Voorman, and Japa
nese terror.4McCartney? Everyone is convinced by 
now that his death hoax was no hoax. His 
obvious ploy is to get the listeners back 
into good-time music. Big Bop and 
Give Ireland Back to the Irish are in
dicative of his success in this area. Lindas 
harmonies have become almost as annoying 
as Yokos discordants: the fault being 
Pauls for producing his own songs, thereby 
remaining in the rut.
Gone are the days of buying Beatle al
bums unheard.
Harrisons last album can be compared 
to receiving a refillable felt-tip pen and 
then finding that the refills are no longer 
available. Its been a long, long, long time 
since All Things Must Pass, but George 
has been wrapped up in Bangladesh, pro
ducing, and playing token leads for other 
artists recordings to the extent that we 
may not hear his own material again. Hope 
is dying.
There have been rumors about John, 
George, and Ringo doing an album to
gether, but most hopes of this nature are 
never fulfilled. Even if such a project did 
come off, the feeling wouldnt be the same. 
The Beatles retired as everyones night-lite 
long ago.
What we have now to comfort us: me 
and Julio down by the schoolyard, the real 
feeling behind Alice Coopers Schools 
Out, and Nilsson Schmilsson consistently 
trying to out-camp himself. Not much to 
place your faith in, let alone your money.
Sixties rock built its own 
superstructure atop which it rested in 
1969-70 above all predecessors. Every time 
Foot Stompin Music by Grand Funk is 
played on the air, a bit of that structure is 
chopped away, leaving rock on somewhat a 
lower level than before. The same applies 
to recordings by Donny Osmond, Melanie, 
Michael Jackson, Lee Michaels, David 
Cassidy, Paul McCartney with Linda, the 
Doors minus Morrison, among many 
others.
Rock wont crumble, it will simply 
shrink, and well be left with the classicalrock hybrids such as Emerson, Lake and 
Palmer, and the avant-garde Zappas. Plus, 
of course, James Brown. But the loss we 
feel could have been greater and at the 
same time nonexistent. We might never 
have had the Beatles; subsequently, there 
would have been no group to dissolve and 
leave us gasping for air. Had rock not de
veloped, we wouldnt know what were 
now missing: music as an integral part of 
living/feeling. And had music not declined, 
I wouldnt be looking back at how good it 
used to seem.
The listeners lament: oh well.
Abortion Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Whos Listening?
by David Stewari
Hello. Do you know what the Guinness 
Book of World Records is? Take a guess. 
Right, its the book that tells which is 
highest, lowest, biggest etc. among all the 
things on Gods earth. It makes tremen
dous bathroom reading, because it tells 
more than youd like to know about things 
you dont even care about. For example: 
(You were waiting for this, werent you?) 
The highest stilts ever mastered were 
twenty-two feet from ankle to ground. The 
largest bribe on record was 
$84,000,000,offered to Sheikh Aid bin 
Sultan by a Saudi Arabian official in Au
gust, 1955. The last public guillotining was 
Eugene Weidmanns at Versailles, June 17, 
1939.
Who cares? Are you kidding? Theres a 
world full of people, just waiting to be 
impressed (and bored) by such knowledge. 
People are fact fetishists which makes a 
book like this indispensible. Is there some
one youd like to impress? Then just saun
ter up to him and offhandedly say, By the 
way, the largest sausage ever made was 
2,000 feet long and weighed over 840 
pounds. Hell be floored.
Imagine, though, if all life on earth were 
destroyed and everything ever written was 
burned except a copy of this book. An 
intergalactic nomad might happen upon it 
and the accomplihsments of homo sapiens 
will herein be preserved. For that wanderer 
will know, beyond doubt, that New 
Guineas South Pacific Post with circu
lation 5,200 is probably the most sought 
after newspaper for smoking. And balladeers will sing of a small green planet 
where the longest abbreviation was S.O.M.- 
K.H.P.S.K.J.O.S.S.D.P.M.W.D.T.B. and the 
most prolific murderess was Bella Gunness 
with sixteen certain victims and possibly 
twelve more.
If youve ever looked at a country sky
on a starry night, you know what insigni
ficant means. But dont you feel just a 
little better knowing that you are one of a 
race of men among whom the face-slapping 
contest duration record is thirty hours and 
the greatest number of children produced 
is sixty-nine? (Mme. Vassilet of Russia, 16 
pairs of twins, 7 sets of triplets and 4 sets 
of quads.) You dont? Then pray to St. 
Jude, patron saint of lost causes. It worked 
for Jack Oleary, world hiccup record 
holder, (6/13/48 - 6/1/56) when nothing' 
else did.
At last....
through the privacy of the mail
Whether you live in a big city with its crowded drugstores, or in a small town where people know each other so well, obtaining male contraceptives without embarrassment can be a problem.Now, Population Planning Associates has solved the problem...by offering reliable, famous-brand male contraceptives through the privacy of the mail. Popular brands like Trojan and Sultan. The exciting pre-shaped Conture. The supremely sensitive Prime. And many more. All are electronically tested and meet rigorous government standards of reliability.Well be glad to send you our free illustrated brochure which describes the products and services that we have been bringing to 10,000 regular customers for nearly two years. Or send just $3 for a sampler pack of a dozen contraceptives  three each of four leading brands plus our brochure. Money back if not delighted!
For free brochure or S3 sampler 
mailed in plain package, write:
Population Planning Associates 105 North Columbia Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514
Please rush me in plain package:
S] Sampler pack of 12 assorted conomsthree each of four brands-plus 
illustrated brochure-$3 
? Illustrated brochure only, 25<
Name
Address
CityState
Zip
V 269
I enclose payment in full________________
tudeijt OS Customer
"  MPROVEM6NT IN THE COLLEGE MARKST "
A, CARTS WILL BE 
PROVIDED FOR YOUR 
SHOPPING EASE |K4 
OUR PINE BOOKSTOftCB. THfc CASHIERS 
OFFICE WILL CONVERT 
THE MONUMENT ftCFORC 
HUtfT U&RARY TO A 
PRIVE*IN WINDOW.
O. AND, OP COURSE, ALL 
PRICES AND FEES WILL 
CONFORM TO THE, GUIDE
LINES SET BY PRESIDENT 
NIXON I AUGUST 19*71.
UvCvS
C. ALL DORMITORIES AND 
fraternities will be 
CARPETEDI and quiet, 
PLEASANT music will be 
PIPED INTO EACH ROOM 
to enhance CONCENTRATION.
9-ia

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 3, 1972Page 11
A coffeehouse setting at the Cat's Cradle provided a new experience for student 
Jazz musicians to jam with professionals. This sessioti was a successful first for a 
series sponsored by the YWCA. photo by Ed Levine
Commentary
Pseudodom's War In A Land Called Ho
by Jim Slivka
During the campaign for Monarch in the 
pseudodom of Ego there was discontent 
resulting from hostilities between Ego and 
a far off land called Ho. The Hundred 
J^ears War (or so it seemed) divided, ripped 
apart, severed Ego. It pitted young against 
young in the province of Kent where green 
knights in the Kings army slew four 
learned peasants who were in difference 
with Richard Is incursion into the King
dom of Khmer from Ho. The Minister of 
Justice in Richards Court, John of Martha, 
dismisse,d this incident as an inhumane act 
>n the militias part, refused to prosecute 
and closed the case.
The King, through a plot kept secret, 
withdrew scores of knights but in their 
place sent superior catapults capable of ad
ministering vast destruction. The war, the 
King claimed, was wound down, and so it 
was?
Sir George the Reformer bitterly ob
jected to the Kings handling of the combat 
and claimed he could end the deplorable 
affray and have the prisoners held by Scar
let Ho released within ninety days of his 
installation as Monarch.
Melvin the Lard, Knight Spiro the Witt, 
and King Richard I, all scoffed and debased 
Sir Georges remarks as rubbish and 
charged that Sir George was abetting Scar
let Ho. The members of the House of Goldandsilver claimed they were the proper citi
zens to discuss captive releases, but as they 
babbled like a brook, ever more catapulters 
were taken by the forces of Ho. Mean
while, as they were preparing to send as 
expeditionary force to Scarlet Ho led by 
James the Teamster, a rascal released from 
the dungeon Christmas Eve past, for the 
express purpose of seeking the liberty of 
prisoners; Spiro, Melvin, and the others 
from the Court of the King derided Sir 
Georges sending Pierre, the Pressman for 
John the Monarch, to the Towne of Paree 
on a mission of similar intent.
Sir Georges rebuttal to the attack upon 
his prisoner freedom plans was that how 
could one expect the embattled to release 
its captured enemy whilst its foe con
tinually bombasted its land.
Humanitarian Sir George deplored the 
death of children in all the lands about Ho. 
Spiro the Witt retorted that Sir George was 
an unpatriotfor shame on a man who 
cared about the welfare of children in the 
enemys land. But George the Reformer, 
unrebuffed by the Witts incessant attack 
on his character, persisted in deploring the 
wanton death of any lands young.
The citizenry of Ego, however, amidst 
all this dungslinging and strife, appeared to 
be impervious to reality and accepted the 
edict that the war was wilting like a folding 
rose-long live the King?
Film Workshop 
Promotes Film Making
by Joan McGuskey
Not so long ago, Teleflex sounded 
^fike a dirty-joke punchline. Cameras were 
box type Brownie affairs used at Easter 
and Christmas, and home-movies were to 
be avoided like bubonic plague. But in
creasing interest in photography and film 
making, lead, in 1969, to the founding of 
the C-MU Film Workshop, an organization 
which has flourished ever since.
The clubs main purpose, says Presi
dent Jim Oppenheimer, is to promote 
film making on campus. Club membership 
is open to anyone, from the ten-thumbed 
beginner to a professional, and the $2.50 
dues provide more than just an oppor
tunity to meet others sharing an interest. 
The clubs equipment, including lights, 
cameras, sound and on-the-spot projectors, 
and processing equipment, is available for 
^joan to members. The workshop provides 
instruction in the use of equipment, brings
in outside speakers for weekly meetings, 
and also gets film at considerably lower 
than retail prices.
The club encourages movie makers to 
bring their work to workshop meetings. 
Films, finished or still in progress, will be 
shown to members, and advice offered, 
praise and/or criticism given by those 
whove had experience.
For the last three years, an annual film 
festival has encouraged local movie making, 
and students were eligible for grants of up 
to fifty dollars towards the cost of 
production. This year, however, chances of 
obtaining such generous backings are slim. 
The club is subsidized almost entirely by 
Student Government (except for 
membership dues) and the financial 
squeeze is being felt almost everywhere. 
Students interested in filming however, are 
still encouraged to submit their work to 
the festival.
FA Students Resentful 
Over Seeing Neglect
by Marc Field
Reaction to the Administration move 
that snuffed out all hope for a new fine 
arts complex within the next five years has 
drawn mixed reactions from Fine Arts stu
dents. Yet within the range of comment 
that has been expressed is the unanimous 
conviction that conditions in the old 
building are far from ideal.
Several of the students who have been 
moved to other buildings such as Doherty, 
Baker or Margaret Morrison note that con
ditions are better, but not good. Students 
now feel that their departments have been 
broken up and much of the old depart
mental unity is slipping away. They seem 
to be saying they want someplace to call 
their own that is also fit to work in.
Naturally there is some bitterness over 
the Universitys building the computer 
science center. (Millions for science, but 
not one cent for art.) Some students, es
pecially dramats, have ceased to believe in 
a new fine arts complex. It is something 
that has long been promised to them but 
taken away each year with a new stall.
Meanwhile work goes on in much the 
same way it has since 1914 in exactly the 
same conditions. Another drama student 
told me he believes it is now impossible for 
C-MU to maintain its prestige as one of the
finest drama schools in the country. With
out the proper facilities for training stu
dents newer schools will certainly move 
into the number one spot that C-MU has 
held for so long.
Everyone in Fine Arts agrees that the 
facilities are not all that they should be yet 
the students in the music department are 
faced with a bigger problem. This year they 
may have to take some of their classes at 
Mellon Institute and no one is happy about 
this. The two principle objections seem to 
be that the move will isolate the music 
majorsfrom the campus and each other, 
and that like other students in Fine Arts 
they will have no longer a complete area 
they can call their own. One student siad 
quite bluntly that if she had wanted to go 
to school in downtown Oakland she would 
have gone to Pitt.
This leads to the second objection 
which centers around the fact that the 
College of Fine Arts is supposed to be the 
closest thing to a professional training pro
gram that can exist in a university environ
ment. The current attitudes of the ad
ministration seem to prove that it is not 
willing to maintain the spirit and the fa
cilities to perpetuate this professionalism.
A New Place to Go
Venture Over the Bridge
   io   The Lost Weekend
Located at Point Park College, 
second floor of Lawrence Hall.
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT 
beginning 10 p.m. to 2:00 a.m.
 Refreshments Available  
DIFFERENT BAND EVERY MONTH
Drug Emergency 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us  we will help you.
AMERICAN 
FAMILY 
PLANNING
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardu'are
* Desk Lamps ^ Key Service ** Artist Brushes 
** Hpt Plates ** Poster Paints * School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
$10 and $20 COUPON BOOKS
at a
5% DISCOUNT
I STARTING OCTOBER 2nd 4
COUPONS MAY BE USED AT ANY 
FOOD SERVICE FACILITY
PICK UP YOUR COUPON BOOKS 
from 201 SKIBO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 3, 1972
COME FLY WITH US
Have you ever wondered whether you were cut 
out to be a flyer? Well, now's your chance to find out. 
Come on out take an orientation flight in a Navy 
T-34  an honest-to-goodness primary flight trainer. 
There's no obligation and its absolutely free. Find out 
what the campus looks like from the air and find out 
out a lot about yourself at the same time.
_The Get details on these free flights on Oct.
2-7 and how you can have a starting salary of 11,500 after graduation. Call Don 
Martin at 644-5889.
TO REGISTER WEEKDAYS
call 687-7755 before 2:00 p.m.
IF NO ANSWER LEAVE MESSAGE---------------------- 682-0405
Come in and buy your Superbox at
C-MU Book Store
Home or Office
AN ADDRESS OF DISTINCTION
A limited number of select Studio rooms and Suites  
all air conditioned  are still available.
Monthly Rentals from $160.00
In the heart of the University-Cultural Center, here is 
truly an address of distinction, a location of conven
ience, a life-style of leisure.
 24 Hr. Switchboard &  Maid & Porter Service
Message Service  Automatic Elevators
 Coffee Shop, Restaurant &  Barber Shop &
Lounge Beauty Parlor
 Room Service  24 Hr. Security
 Adjacent Parking
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
621-7700
"All The Conveniences Of Home And Then Some"
OVER TWENTY YEARS IN THE 
TEACHING FIELD
Shadyside Studio Opens In October
BALLET - TAP - EXERCISE - MODERN JAZZ - KARATE 
MINI MODELING - BALLROOM 
 Special Choreography For Special Events 
Superbox. It has over $5.00 worth of products you use for 
only 990. There is a TRAC II razor by Gillette in both the 
Superbox for men and the Superbox for women. That 
alone is what is commonly referred to as a good deal. 
But there is more. There are shave creams and deodor
ants. And more:
All the products listed below are in each Superbox
Superbox tor women Superbox lor men
Trac II by Gillette Trac II by Gillette
Crazylegs Shaving Gel Edge Shave Cream
Tame Cream Rinse Man-Power Deodorant
Soft & Dri Deodorant Bufferin
Foot Guard  MacLeans toothpaste
Lemon Up Shampoo Flair Hotliner Pen
My Own Towlettes Cepacol Lozenges
Cepacol Lozenges
photo by Elliot Arons 
Sophomore halfback Bob Curtis( 40) takes a handoff from quarterback Jim Allera.
C-MU fell before Oberlin 21-14 on Saturday.
uLJUCD
DANCING SCHOOL
Secretary and Member 
Pennsylvania Professional Dance Teachers Association
PRE-SCHOOL thru 
PROFESSIONAL
THE UNCOMMON BOX WITH THE 
UTTERLY UNCOMMON BARGAIN INSIDE
Tartans fared badly last weekend. Here the Soccer team loses to Pitt (3-0) after a loss earlier in the 
week to Thiel.
