The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 24 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA, TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1944
tf-aneujelt
C.I.T. Will Miss You; Good Luck
In these times of flux and uncertainty, the one thing which tended to 
become a permanent institution on the Carnegie Tech campus was the pres
ence of those sliderule soldiers of the ASTP. Sliderule soldiers . . . that 
was an insult in those initial days of friction and mutual dilike between 
the civilian and the uniformed students at Carnegie Tech, when the sol
diers looked down upon the draft dodgers and the civilians scoffed at the 
GIs with the soft job. All this has changed nowthe soldiers realized 
our importance, and we recognized theirs. We understand now that the 
Army has a great need for specialized men, and from personal experience 
many of us know that it is just as hard to be a student at C. I. T. as it is to 
be a KP in acamp. AST Joe knows that civilian engineers design and pro
duce the weapons and other equipment without which he cannot fight.
We grew to like each other, and now most of the ASTs are going to 
leave, destination unknown. We have had some good times togetherat 
the dances, in the canteen, and during mushball gamesand we hope 
that they will remember us as well and as long as we will recollect their 
stay. Good luck, men, and until we meet again.
To you, Harvey Sherman, our long-suffering military editor, manwith-the-bass-drum, and Don Juan, go our special farewells, for in the 
month of our collaboration and even occasional cooperation we came to 
know you as the swell guy you are. Now that it is thirty for you, the 
Tartan wont be the same anymore. Cheerio, Harvey, and lots of luck.
ASTs Graduate Next 
Friday; Class Includes 
6th and 7th Term Men
Graduation exercises for many of 
the ASTs still on campus are to be 
held in the Sylvan Theater Friday, 
July 28th. At this time approxi
mately seventy AST men are ex
pected to receive certificates for the 
work that they have completed 
here.
, At 10.00 A. M. the graduating 
class will pass in review before 
Col. Richard W. Cooksey. Director of 
the AST Division, Headquarters 
.Third Service Command, who will 
be the principal speaker at the ex
ercises to be held immediately after 
the review.
. The graduating class includes 
both sixth and seventh term men  
special arrangements having been 
made recently to have the former 
complete their courses.
The certificates that are to be 
awarded will give full recognition 
to the men for their work. Although 
the work was of college level the 
definite value of the certificate can
not be stated since they will be 
evaluated differently by various 
colleges after the war.
, The schedule of events for the 
day is as follows: Thursday, July 
27thLast day for clashes of ad
vanced ASTs. Friday, July 28th 
Dismissal of ASTP* Reserves until 
11:00 when scheduled classes will 
resume. Civilian classes will con
tinue as usual. -
College Students Help 
Do Work On Farms
Every Sunday a group of college 
men and women don their blue 
jeans and plaid shirts and pitch in 
to help harvest the waiting crops. 
Assembling in front of the First 
Unitarian Church at Morewood and 
Ellsworth at the early hour of 7:55 
A. M., the would-be farmers shove 
off for a good days work. The 
church provides the transportation 
to and from the farms, which are lo
cated near Brentwood. There the 
crop, berries, fruit, tomatoes, corn, 
or whatever the season produces, is 
gathered. By the end of the day, 
the farmer, grateful for any help 
whatsoever, has accomplished work 
which otherwise might not have 
been done. By the end of the day 
or rather six oclock, these farm
ers helpers who are healthily tired, 
sunburned, and pleased with a good 
days work, return to the church 
for a tasty and welcome dinner. 
Afterwards there is a party, dance, 
tliscussion, or some form of enter
tainment to which everyone is in
vited. By the time one gets home, 
bed feels mighty good for it has 
been a different, worthwhile, and 
pleasant day.
The discussion for Sunday, July 
30, will be by Dr. L. O. Grondahl, 
Vice President, Union Switch and 
Signal Company, on The Buzz 
Bomb and Other London Experi
ences.
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Plans Winter Program
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra with Fritz Reiner as Music
al Director will again give sixteen 
pairs of concerts on Friday evenings 
and Sunday afternoons at Syria 
Mosque next season.
The soloists scheduled for the 
season are Vladimir Horowitz, Rob
ert Casadesus, and Beveridge Web
ster, pianists; and Heifetz, Yehudi 
Menuhin and Nathan Milstein, vio
linists. Samuel Thaviu, the Or
chestras concertmaster, will also 
appear as a soloist during the sea
son.
In addition to the regular con
certs, a special concert is scheduled 
for January 14, with Leonard Bern
stein as a guest conductor. Two 
Childrens Concerts are scheduled 
at Carnegie Music Hall January 20, 
and February 24, with Vladimir 
Bakaleinikoff conducting.
The schedule of date and soloists 
for the regular series is as follows:
November 10-12  Opening Con
cert.
November 17-19Vladimir Horo
witz, Pianist.
November 24-26  Nathan Mil
stein, Violinist.
December 1-3  Orchestra Con
certs.
December 8-10Yehudi Menuhin, 
Violinist.
December 15-17Orchestral Con
certs.
December 29-31  Miliza Korjus, 
Soprano; Vladimir Bakaleinikoff, 
conducting.
January 5-7  Robert Casadesus, 
Pianist; Vladimir Bakaleinikoff, 
Continued on page 3
Technical Notice
Subscribers who do not have 
boxes in the C. I. T. post office and 
have heretofore been receiving 
their issues by interschool mail 
will now get their copies of the Car
negie Technical at the booth on 
campus. Watch the bulletin boards 
for the place.
Carnegie Tech Plans 
Six Football Games 
For Coming Season
Carnegie Tech has tentatively 
scheduled six intercollegiate foot
ball games for the coming season, 
and is now signing students inter
ested in participating, the athletic 
office announced recently.
The games, which are subject to 
cancellation at any time, are with 
Pitt, West Virginia, Case, Lehigh, 
Kentucky, and Michigan State. The 
dates of all but the Michigan State 
game are indefinite. Michigan State 
will be played at East Lansing on 
November 12. The first game will be 
on October 7.
Any student in good standing, 
that is, with a 1.25 factor or above is 
eligible to go out for football, and 
all boys who are interested are in
vited to see Mr. Clarence Overend, 
director of athletics. The freshman 
rule was suspended in 1942, so that 
all undergraduates may play.
Last year Tech played five games, 
against, Pitt, West Virginia, Roches
ter, Case, and Lehigh, losing four 
and tying one. The only student 
returning from last years team is 
Cliff Mikus.
Radio Magazine Publishes 
Teares & Schatzs Paper
Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr., Professor of 
Electrical Engineering, and E. R. 
Schatz, a former student at C. I. T. 
and until recently an instructor in 
the Electrical Department, have 
written a paper entitled Copper 
Covered Steel at Radio Frequency. 
This paper will be found in the July 
issue of the Proceedings of the In
stitute of Radio Engineers.
Dr. Teare was recently awarded 
the prize for the best paper in the 
Field of Theory and Research by 
the American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers. His paper was entitled 
Skin Effects in Bi-Metallic Con
ductors, and is a definite advance
ment in the field of Electrical Engi
neering.
Dr. Elliot; Smith 
Is New Lecturer
Yale Prof. Accepts 
Faulk Chair For 1944
Professor Elliott Dunlap Smith, 
Chairman of the Economics Depart
ment and Master of Saybrook Col
lege, Yale University, has been ap
pointed Visiting Professor at Car
negie Institute of Technology for 
the academic year 1944-1945, Presi
dent Robert E. Doherty announced 
Saturday. During this period, be
ginning October 1, he will fill the 
Maurice Faulk Chair of Social Rela
tions made vacant by the recent re
tirement of Dr. Willard E. Hotch
kiss.
Professor Smith is a native of 
Chicago. He received the A. B. de
gree from Harvard in 1913, the 
LL. B. degree in 1916, and the hon
orary A. M. degree from Yale in 
1928. He began the practice of law 
in Chicago in 1916, was with the 
Council of National Defense in 1917 
and 1918 and became Director of In
vestigation, United States Tariff 
Commission in 1919. He was per
sonnel manager and division man
ager for the Dennison Manufactur
ing Company, Framingham, Mass., 
from 1919 to 1928. In 1926 and 1927 
he was a lecturer in social ethics at 
Harvard and became professor of 
industrial relations at Yale in 1928. 
He has been director of industrial 
investigations of the Yale Institute 
of Human Relations since 1931 and 
has been Master of Yales Saybrook 
College since 1932.
He is also director of Yales Com
mittee on Student Preparation for 
War Service, which had responsibil
ity for the readjustment of under
graduate education for war. Also, 
one of his principal interests has 
been the development of instruc
tion in the field of human problems 
in industry as a part of engineering 
education.
Professor Smith is President of 
the Board of Trustees of Sarah 
Lawrence College, Bronxville, New 
York, and a trustee of Francis 
Parker School, Chicago. He is a 
member of the Advisory Committee 
on Industrial relations, National In
dustrial Conference Board. He is 
author of Psychology for Execu
tives, co-author of Union Manage
ment Cooperation in the StretchOut, and has contributed numerous 
articles on industrial and educa
tional subjects to professional 
journals.
Professional Donors 
Needed At Montefiore
Due to the lack of regular donors, 
Montefiore Hospital has an acute 
need of persons to act as profession
al blood donors. The usual fees 
will be paid, ranging upward from 
$25, according to the blood type.
Everyone who can help is urgent
ly requested to go to the Carnegie 
Employment Bureau, where they 
will be given further information 
and will be registered for bloodtyping. ___

---------------------------------------------------

2THE OARNEOIE TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 26, 1944
Z&Uanh AimcltcUn.
Wake Up ACAC!
With the feeble excuse that they had nothing to do anyhow, the mem
bers of the Army-Civilian Activities Council recently decided to call it 
quits for the summer and, we suspect, for the duration, and rest on their 
laurels . . . frankly, we did not know they had any.
We quite agree that A. C. A. C. has not done anything for a long time, 
but that it is due only to their unwillingness and inability, and certainly 
not for a lack of possibilities. We are engaged in a war, we have very few 
students, and we did lose most of our student body, but these are just the 
reason why now, more than ever, A. C. A. C. should be working on full 
capacity. Now that the many organizations which used to sponsor dances 
and other activities, organizations like Citcom Clan, I. F. and I. S. Councils, 
are unable to do so, it should be the duty of our student government to 
give the students dances and picnics and other forms of amusement. It is 
not necessary to engage large bands and rent expensive ballrooms, no one 
expects A. C. A. C. to spend much money, but a heck of a lot of fun can be 
had on a shoestring, and A. C. A. C. should give it to us.
There is another thing A. C. A. C. could very effectively, even most 
effectively, do right now. This is the time for postwar planning, and 
A. C. A. C. should spend a lot of time this semester and next to eliminate 
many of the large and small controversies which before the war caused so 
much trouble and bitterness. A. C. A. C. should meet now to draw up 
new election rulings eliminating once and for all the reincarnation, of the 
old fraternity combine and of the sorority cliques which used to deter
mine the election of our beauty queens.
Every present memberbeg pardon, retired memberof A. C. A. C. 
will have left school by the end of this semester, and unless something is 
done fast, the student body will find itself without a government, and con
sequently without dances, and fair elections. Get busy, members of 
A. C. A. C., we did not elect you to do nothing.
Student Liaison Committee
The meeting was called to order on June 21 at 4:30 p. m. in the office of 
the Director of the College of Engineering.
Present were Director W. N. Jones, Professors Teare and Work, and 
Messrs. D. Jones, Lerman, Lowenstein, Pake, Pollock, and Stephens.
The members of the Committee decided to prove its worth and ability 
to the faculty by working on some major projects and reporting the re
sults of these activities.
The following projects were assigned:
1) Messrs. Lerman and Lowenstein will investigate the possible applica
tion of visual education to the C. I. T. curriculum. It was suggested that 
they consult Professors Teare and Mulenbruch, as well as the S. P. E. E. 
bibliography of education movies.
2) Messrs. Jones and Pake will draw up a new Freshman Curriculum 
which would facilitate the curricula of the upper classes by accelerating 
certain courses and eliminating others.
3) Messrs. Pollock and Stephens will investigate the present situation 
where the decreasing number of students often does not justify the sched
uling of certain courses. They will draw up Junior and Senior general en
gineering and science schedules.
4) Msesrs. Lerman and Jones will investigate the effect of the concentrat
ed program on student originality.
5) Mserss. Pake and Stephens will formulate the aims of the Committee. 
The meeting was adjourned until July 12th.
Respectfully submitted,
Jack S. Pollock, Recorder.
We would like to add a few more remarks to our introduction of the 
Student-Faculty Liaison Committee, whose formation was announced last 
week.
The aims of the Liaison Committee, quoted and explained in this col
umn last week, need hardly any additional comments. They simply state 
that the Committee was created to call the attention of the faculty to ques
tions which we, the students, believe merit consideration, and to furnish 
the opinions of the students in the discussion and elimination of these probOpinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
Know Pittsburghs History . . . 
City Founded On Bloodshed
Continued from last week.
The Carnegie Tartan
Cintile Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONK MATFLOWEB *000 PHONE 8CBCNLEY MSI
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief.............................EM. 424
Business Manager..........................EM. 9424
MSMMNTID FOR NATIONAL ADVtRTlllN *National Advertising Service, Inc.
Galtet Pwklhbtn Repreuntstwt 
C.I TWilMsY oul; Gld LsYc; G; L;
kdASs  eoeroo  Las Aaecus * S rlSAlca 
gatirsl aa m  matter to the Pittsburgh Paal Offlee ander the Act af March t, 1171. PiblisM weekly taring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ....................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor..............................................................................Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager .............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
Managing Editors.............................................................. Adeline Herlickt Clara Herron
News Editor................................................................................................... Jerry Brickman
Copy Editor........................................................................................................... Dottie King
Headline Editor................................................................................................. Augie Binder
Sports Editor.............................................................. .................................... Howard Roby
Photography Editor ................................................................................................ Bill Jones
Reporters: Millard Brown, Bob Connelley, Warren Helmer, Dick Herrmann, Mary 
Horridge, Audrey Ho be, Bob Johnson, Rosemarie Lang, Kenny Lipman, Anita 
Newell, Georgette Paljug, Frank Peterson, Vincent Pros, Clark Sloan, Johnny 
Vansiich, and Dale Wright.
When America, that strange vast 
land, was still being explored, 
claimed, and fought over; when the 
Ohio valley was still a wild and 
wooly western frontier, the French 
militia planted their tricolors on the 
green, not yet golden, triangle. 
There arose Fort Duquesne, a diamond-shaped stockade not ten yards 
from the point. There also along 
the Allegheny in plain log barracks 
dwelt the homesick Frenchmen, 
who had come seeking adventure, 
riches, or freedom and had found 
instead the loneliness and terror of 
the indian haunted, endless forest. 
Yet before this new fort, its parade 
ground, its moats, its barracks, had 
become the familiar grounds of 
home, its occupants heard that the 
tenacious English were hewing a 
narrow mud road through the 
mountains. This road was to allow 
a quicker passage of troops and sup
plies into the regions near Fort Du
quesne.
In spite of the fact that these 
Virginians were poorly equipped, 
the reports brought to the fort by 
indians and travellers were far from 
comforting. The French, unwilling 
to lose their acquisition in Penn
sylvania, sent forth an important 
scouting party. This party was de
feated and captured by the English. 
Not for long, though, was this dis
grace to remain, for shortly after
wards a French army marched 
forth to meet the foe. Washington 
retreated to a favorable site for bat
tle and erected a stockade, which 
was aptly named Fort Necessity. 
Here on July 4, a date which we re
member only as one of victory, 
glory, and honor, Washington was 
ignominiously defeated. The Eng
lish were forced to withdraw from 
Western Pennsylvania.
In the months that followed this 
battle, the land where the three 
rivers meet became a colorful and 
somewhat gruesome * spot. Here 
where warehouses, railroads, and 
office buildings now stand in ugly 
disarray, indian campfires burned, 
indian braves played lacrosse, and 
indian chiefs warily watched the
white men. Where there are now 
cobbled wharves and concrete park
ways hardy pioneers once tended 
vegetable gardens; here where 
streetcars clang and shoppers trot 
the sidewalks, French soldiers drill
ed and paraded. Bateaux steered by 
rugged French boatmen and carry
ing supplies from Canada sailed 
these waters. And often, too often, 
this valley heard the scalp cry and 
the groans of tortured Englishmen. 
This was Pittsburgh in her first wild 
days.
It was not long until the Eng
lish were again enroute to the forks 
of the rivers. This time, however, 
there was a plentitude of welltrained, well-equipped soldiers, 
straight from the battlefields of 
Europe. Under General Braddock, 
a Swiss mercenary, who knew strat
egy and tactics from many years of 
experience, the red-coated British
ers marched towards Fort Du
quesne. On the day that they reach
ed Turtle Creek, the French, who 
had observed their progress with 
keen interest, rallied their men and 
their Indian allies. Early on that 
historic day, these Indians in war 
dress and paint danced the dance of 
war and helped themselves to guns, 
powder, and balls. Off into the hills 
above the city and through what is 
now Oakland and Wilkinsburg went 
the French forces. By twilight the 
land around the point witnessed an 
orgy of blood and death. Indians, 
wearing the red coats and sashes of 
dead British and carrying bloody 
English scalps, stuck on stolen 
swords, whooped into the fort. With 
them they brought twelve captives, 
stark naked and blackened for 
death. Along what is now Du
quesne Way the twelve were tied to 
the stake, tortured, and roasted 
alive. Human grease soaked that 
ground where for years no grass 
would grow, but where now no sign, 
no monument bears memory to the 
martyrs who perished there. Yes, 
Braddock was defeated; Pittsburgh 
saw the horrors of Indian war; and 
the French and Indians still held 
the land where the three rivers 
meet.
lems. Furthermore, the Liaison Committee will attempt to improve teach
ing methods by suggesting changes and innovations in our curriculum.
The means by which the Liaison Committe will achieve these ends, 
however, have not yet been fully determined, for nothing like this project, 
intended to become a permanent institution on the Carnegie campus, has 
ever been attempted before, and the members of the Committee have no 
precedents upon which they can base their course of action. They are con
fronted by a very difficult task: within the next few months they must pro
ceed by the trial and error method, searching for the most efficient and ef
fective procedures, and at the same time they must be able to impress both 
the faculty and the student body with their ability to become a great ad
dition to the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
At the moment, as evidenced by the minutes of the first meeting of the 
Liaison Committee published in this issue, the members are working on a 
few major projects such as the possibilities of visual education in our cur
riculum, and a possible revision of the Freshman program. Soon they hope 
to arrive at some concrete suggestions, and thus to establish a good reputa
tion. Once this has been achieved the Committee will begin to tackle the 
innumerable specific problems and gripes which the students would like 
to be remedied, and then only will the student body really be aware of the 
existence of the Committee.
Many questions about the procedures of the Liaison Committee have 
already reached us; some of which, as we just pointed out, cannot be dealt 
with yet, and others which we shall attempt to answer now.Will the Liaison Committee really be a student organ?
The answer to this question is a most emphatic yes. The Committee 
was originated by students and will continue to be run by students. The 
three faculty members will act solely in an advisory capacity.
Continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

If
TUESDAY, JULY 25, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Girls
She Knows Everything About Everything
She knows everything about 
everything.
When is ACAC going to throw 
that* big brawl? Where are we go
ing to get the food for the sorority 
picnic? Who is the little man who 
points those white signs all over 
the campus in the dark of night? 
Just what course of studies is the 
Secretarial Department following 
this summer? And who can in
form me of the price of small green 
peas on the Peruvian market this 
season? Im afraid I really cant 
give you any accurate information 
on the subject, bu if you should ask 
Mary Ann Rial . . . How the heck 
should I know? Ask Maizie Rial 
... Our plans arent really official 
as yet, but if you ask Maizie Rial 
... Maziell know . . . Ask Maizie 
... Ask Maizie . . . Mazie.
And when you ask our charming 
senior secretarial, Maize always 
knows the answers to everything 
except maybe the vegetable ques
tion. Ever since her freshman days, 
Maizie has been in the know on 
what goes on campus. She started 
her college career off right by be
ing president of the freshman 
CWCA and being chosen a Cwen at 
the end of her first year at Skibo. In 
her Junior year, she was chosen 
president of her class, and last year 
she served as chairman of the 
Spring Carnival Committee. Shes 
now serving as Social Chairman of 
ACAC, which may explain her in
side information on Skibo social life, 
is Secretary of Mortar board, a 
Carnegie Tech Senior honor
ary, and a member of the CWCA 
cabinet. She plans to trade her 
present membership in Gamma Phi 
Sigma sorority for one in Delta 
Gamma Sorority when she joins her 
sorority sisters in the National come 
fall.
Maizie is usually so busy with 
campus life that she barely finds 
time to indulge in her favorite 
hobbybridge, but you can usual
ly find this rather tall, blonde, blue
eyed gal indulging in a round of 
the sport in the canteen. When 
shes not making grand slams in no 
trump, Maizie likes to pull up her 
bobby socks and listen to The 
Young Man With A Hornnatch,
Tennis Tournament 
Opens As Ten Enter
Beginning yesterday the tennis 
tournament finally got under way. 
The final plans were drawn up last 
night after ten men entered the 
singles tournament and four teams 
signed up for the doubles competi
tion. It was hoped that more play
ers could be found, but evidently 
only the cream of the crop were in
terested. Sill Scherb and Murray 
Slone, P. Fekete and Grant Cavender, Irvin Aisenberg and David 
Fleck, and Ken King and Dick 
Eschenbach are teamed up in the 
doubles to meet each other for the 
championship. In the singles Bill 
Jones, J. Murray, David Fleck, Ken 
King, Dick Eschenbach, Grant Cavender, Bill Scherb, J. Bartley, Irvin 
Aisenberg, and P. Fekete are scheduled to play each other to determine
Harry James. She likes to dance to 
music a little smoother(no insult 
to Harry meant) with something 
tall and blonde with optional blue 
eyes. Her dream man will fill these 
qualifications along with being filthy 
rich, tall, a good dancer, and funny. 
(Not queer, funny, Ha! Ha! funny). 
Her chances for getting what she
wants look pretty good for she has 
only dated one dark man in her 
life.
When Maisie gets her sheepskin 
this fall, shell be leaving Carnegie 
with only three years of college life 
behind her. She really thinks her 
last two years here was pretty much 
of a grind, but now that theyre 
nearly over shes a bit homesick for 
the old school already. After grad
uation Miss Rial plans to take a few 
weeks rest at the Sorority cottage 
and then to get herself a job pre
ferably in a secretarial position con
nected with personal work . . . and 
to marry eventuallynatch. In rem
iniscing over her college years, Mai
zie said that what she really would 
like to see is a real Carnival once 
again before she leaves, but thatll 
have to wait until after the war. 
She also expressed the hope that the 
Canteen will soon be really fixed up 
for the campus kiddies, with cur
tains and a smooth floor and murals 
on those bare wall spaces. And it 
would be nice if people would get 
the habit of dancing instead of just 
sitting around.
the singles king. At the end of the 
tennis season keys will be awarded 
to the singles champion and to each 
of the two members of the winning 
doubles team.
There will be no definite time set 
for each match, but rather a limit 
will be set within which the com
peting players will decide on the 
best time for themselves to play. 
This time limit will be for just sev
eral days for each round of play. 
Both singles and doubles tourna
ments will be of the elimination 
type Mr. Munhall, head of intra
mural athletics, will be in charge of 
the tennis tournament.
District Blood Donors 
Fail To Meet Quota
In this sixth week of the inva
sion, 35% of the blood donors have 
failed to keep their appointments 
at the Pittsburgh Blood Donor Cen
ter in Wabash Station, the most 
common excuse being hot weather.
Roy G. Bostwick, chairman of the 
Blood Donor service of the Pitts
burgh Red Cross made the follow
ing statement:
Up to the present time, I have not 
heard of soldiers who fall out of 
line because it is too hot to march. 
Nor have I heard of sailors who 
abandon their ships, or marines 
who leave their foxholes because 
the thermometer is crawling around 
the nineties. But I do know of one 
donor in Pittsburgh who gave blood 
last Tuesday, one of the hottest 
day's of the summer and who felt 
cooler after donating.
The number of casualties is 
mounting, and probably will con
tinue to do so, and these casualties 
will require an ever increasing 
quantity of plasma. Sometimes one 
soldier requires as much as 20 
transfusions. The supply must come 
from us, and hot weather or no hot 
weather, we are going to have to 
give more and more.
The Wabash Station center 
(GRant 1680) is serving the usual 
hours during the summer . . . 
Mondays through Fridays 9:45 a. 
m. to 8:00 p. m., and on Saturdays 
from 10:15 a. m. to 2:30 p. m.
I Dont Like People
I HATE people. I wish people 
would put on dark glasses, gag 
themselves, bind their arms and 
legs, stand their bodies in corners 
with their noses to the wall, and 
petrify. I wish people would take 
a deep drink of acid and watch 
themselves dissolve into sizzling 
pieces of air. I wish people would 
crouch, take a mighty jump straight 
up, and manage to get clear of the 
earths range of gravity so that they 
would whisk off into blank space 
and stay whisked. I wish people 
would all start walking off briskly 
in all directions so long as they went 
away from me. And I wish the 
world were flat so they would not 
eventually bump into me again on 
their way back. In short, I wish 
people would hate me as much as I 
hate people.
The Williams Review.
C S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
On The Record
Featuring both popular hits of the 
day and more serious selections, the 
latest releases of Decca Records, 
Inc., are sure to find a warm wel
come among young and old alike. 
Perhaps the most outstanding of 
these is the album of A Connecti
cut Yankee, in Deccas Original 
Cast, Chorus and Orchestra Series. 
This Rodgers and Hart musical 
adaption of Mark Twains famous 
tale was originally produced on the 
stage in 1928, but today its hit tunes 
are just as popular as they ever 
were. The album consists of ten 
sides and retails for $4.25 (plus tax) 
and includes the following:
A Connecticut Yankee
Album No. DA-467
A Connecticut Yankee, Con
necticut Yankee Overture, My 
Heart Stood Still, You Always 
Love the Same Girl, To Keep My 
Love Alive, I Feel At Home With 
You, Cant You Do A Friend A 
Favor, and many others.
DA-23312 Connecticut Yankee 
Overture 
Finale
DA-23313 My Heart Stood Still.
You Always Love The 
Same Girl 
DA-23314 Thou Swell
I Feel At Home With You 
DA-23315 On a Desert Island With 
Thee
Cant You Do a Friend a 
Favor
DA-23316 To Keep My Love Alive 
(2 sides)
Symphony ...
Continued from page 1 
conducting.
January 19-21  Orchestral Con
certs.
January 26-28  Rose Bampton, 
Soprano.
February 2-4Jascha Heifetz, Vi
olinist.
February 9-11Soloist to be an
nounced.
February 16-18Orchestral con
certs.
March 2-4  Samuel Thaviu, Vio
linist.
March 9-11  Beveridge Webster, 
Pianist.
March 30-April 1Final Concerts.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

4THL dARNEQIS TARTANTUESDAY, JULY 25, 1944
^al&i In Khaki . . .Interesting Useless Knowledge of Campus v 
What Is Mystery Surrounding Fountain?
Jack Miller, a member of the 
freshman class that entered Car
negie Tech in May, 1943, and who 
later went to Yale in the V-12 pro
gram, has finally received his ap
pointment to West Point, and will 
report to the Academy in New York 
at the end of the month . . .
. . . Leon Levy, now Seaman First 
Class Levy, made his appearance on 
the Tech campus this week after 
finishing boot training at Great 
Lakes, 111., where a lot of Tech men 
are stationed in the Radio Tech
nician group . . .
. . . Last week, we ran a column 
of men who have left for the service 
from fraternities on campus. This 
week we have a list of independents 
who are also serving their country. 
They are: Steve Korfonta, Monroe 
Munsell, Charles Pollis, William J. 
Blasdell, Albert C. Ghizzoni, Joseph 
L. Kelly, Joseph F. Trant, Glenn 
Ertell, George H. Kapp, William A. 
Margraf, Burton J. Miller, Lindsay
E. Kerr, Howard A. Levy, Leon 
Forman, Paul U. Savage, Edward
F. Bell, Jr., Robert Korn, Richard
G. Yard, Roy A. Clark, Robert J. 
Dunsmore, Charles L. Hutton, Jr., 
Karl E. Sieber, Frank H. Maskiell, 
Ralph L. Adamson, William F. 
Blake, John N. Tarle, Harold R. 
Williams, Paul M. Mikus, Garrison 
Cattell, James M. Flaherty, Charles 
R. Fisher, William W. Griffen, Rob
ert M. Stanley, A1 Perry, Richard 
E. Teller, Anonda Srivardhana, mil
itary intelligence; R. C. Smith, Navy 
V-12; Robert M. Stanley, Navy; Almont J. Walsh, Army; Claire H. 
English, Jr., Army; George Y. 
Meyer, Jr., Army; Joel M. Alperin, 
Army; Wallace P. Prass, Army; 
Donald G. Spring, Army; Murray 
Levison, Army; David M. Schiller, 
Navy V-12; Robert A. Wenston, 
Navy; Robert B. Gordon, Army; 
Dan Ossman, Naval reserve; Rudy 
J. Stankus, Army; Mike Zoretich, 
Army; Gilbert W. Bassett, Army; 
Hollis McDaniels, Jr., Army; John
G. Murray, Naval reserve; Raoul J. 
Quantz, U. S. Military Academy; 
Varick Swartz, Navy; Robert G. 
Smith, Navy V-12; Rodes Trautman, 
Navy V-12; John L. Wandrisco, 
Navy V-12; Tom Willoughby, 
Army; J*an J. Arbona, Army; Jo
seph A. Fromelius, Navy; A1 Bennet, V-12; William W. Griffen, 
Army; Edward W. Kartlick, Jr., 
Army; Lawrence Levine, Army; 
John R. McClain, Jr., Navy; Harry 
C. Noschese, Aviation Cadet; Robert 
W. Bowler, Navy V-7; David C. Say
lor, Jr., Army; William M. Sherts, 
Navy; Herb Asten, Navy V-12; Don
ald C. Beaumariage, Navy V-12; 
Carlyle J. Hussey, Navy V-12; Her
bert G. Keating, Jr., Navy V-12; 
Stuart Levin, Navy V-12; Alphonse 
A. Toppeto, Army; Michael G. 
Turner, Navy; Alvin E. Waslohn, 
Army; Maurice H. Welsh, JJr., Navy 
V-12; Leonard J. Zydel, Navy V-12; 
George A. Markell, Jr., Navy V-12; 
Charles L. Wagner, Navy V-12; Lar
ry R. Luther, Army; Rolland L. 
Hoffman, Air Corps; William W. 
Bock, Navy V-12; Ernest S. Berez, 
Navy V-12; Stanton F. Zoglin, Ma
rines; James D. Garner, Army; 
Maurice Mednick, Navy; Glenn 
Thomas, Navy; Kenneth B. WoolBy Jerry Brickman
dridge, Jr., Navy V-12; Eugene A. 
Mash, Navy; Irving D. Ross. Jr.,; 
Jack Conrey, Marines . . .
. . . From Maxwell Field, Alaba
ma, comes news that four Tech 
men, John Bigley, Orlo I. Lemmer, 
Fred R. Quill and William C. Weltman have started on the second 
phase of training in their Army Air 
Corps career. Weltman, who was at 
Tech last summer when the class of 
43-Ex. entered, is well known by 
many of us. In the dispatches which 
come into us from the various mili
tary installations throughout the 
country, we may sometimes skip 
over men who are unfamiliar to us, 
and Weltmans name was almost 
skipped over lightly, loo, until some 
one in his class happened to recog
nize his name ...
While they were here at Tech, 
Gerry Abelson, Tau Delt, and Bill 
Carpenter, Beta, were pretty close 
chums. When the roster was re
scinded, both left for the army, and 
the latest word has it that Gerry is 
in the Medics at Camp Barkley, 
Texas, and Bill also in ,the medics, 
but in the state of Washington. Per
haps they will get -together again 
soon ... ,
Disgruntled Rider 
Writes Rlwy. Company
This exchange of letters, taken 
directly from the files of the Schen
ectady Railway Company, tickled 
harassed war workers in the area 
so much, that hundreds of extra pa
pers were sold on the strength of it. 
Gentlemen: i
I have been riding on your buses 
for the past 15 months and the serv
ice seems to be getting worse every 
day. I think the transportation you 
offer is worse than that enjoyed by 
the people 1,000 years ago.
Yours very truly,
HENRY BLANK.
(Real name withheld) 
Reply from the Schenectady 
Railway Company: ,
Dear Sir:
We received your letter of the 1st 
and believe that you are somewhat 
confused in your history. The only 
transportation 1,000 years ago was 
on foot.
Yours truly, 
SCHENECTADY RAILWAY 
COMPANY.
Reply from Disgruntled Rider: 
Gentlemen:
I am in receipt of your letter of 
the 18th, and think you are the ones 
confused in your history. If you 
read the Bible, Book of David, 9th 
verse, you will find that Aaron rode 
into town on his ass, and that gen
tlemen, is something that I havent 
been able to do on your buses for 
the past 6 or 7 months.
Yours very truly,
HENRY BLANK.
Notice
Entries in the intramural softball league to begin soon, must be turned into Mr. Munhall before 5 P.M., Wednesday, July 26. Any civilian team desiring to enter the civilian league must have its entry in. There will also be an army league.
Why is the Cut called by that 
name? Is it true that there is an 
abandoned mine on campus which 
was formerly operated by mining 
engineering students? Does C. I. T. 
generate its own electricity? Cer
tainly all the eager, questioning 
freshmen and many of the staid, 
wise upperclassmen have been won
dering about certain parts of the 
campus ever since entering Tech. 
The Tartan this week, deciding to 
set the collective minds of the stu
dent body at rest, has undertaken 
a slight investigation which uncov
ered these facts about Carnegie, 
Carnegies campus, and C. I. T. in 
general.
One of the intriguing mysteries of 
the campus is the fountain and pool 
on the north side of Machinery Hall. 
The apparently abandoned pool 
looks as if its only purpose is to pro
vide a haven for the dragon flies, 
mosquitoes and bits of leaves, pa
per, and trash that adorn its slimy 
surface. The concrete pool, is ap
proximately twenty-five feet square, 
with greenish, murky water filling 
it to within about four feet of the 
top. The water is covered with 
rainbow-hued patches of oil that 
lend an unreal spirit to the other
wise drab and neglected spot.
Rising like a sentinel from the 
center of the pool is a rust covered 
fountain tube, the only reminder 
of the original purpose of the struc
ture. The fountain, about fifteen 
feet deep, holds a small puddle of 
water at its top which is used by 
birds as a convenient and safe bath
ing spot, it seems. The pool is sur
rounded by a strong steel railing of 
contrasting up-to-date appearance.
As the wind blows the muticolored oil patches over the surface, one 
wonders what the purpose of the 
structure could be. A little inquiry, 
however, proves that the appear
ance is only due to the method of 
use of the structure. It furnishes 
water for the cooling jackets of the 
engines in machinery hall. (Big let
down, wasnt it?)
The search, which brought this 
fascinating (?) discovery to light 
also uncovered the following assort
ment of information concerning 
Machinery Hall, its ever-smoking 
dome and how it got that way.
C. I. T. is almost self-sufficient in 
certain fields because of its power 
plant. For example, all the direct 
current used on ^campus is made 
by the four large generators locat
ed in Machinery HallIn addition, 
the dormitories and the school 
buildings on campus are heated 
either by hot water or steam from 
the boiler room. The steam, elec
tricity, and hot water are carried 
from the power plant in proper con
ductors through an underground 
tunnel connecting all the buildings.
The power plant operates in an 
interesting manner. Coal is brought 
to the plant by truck and fed by a 
stoker system into the furnace in 
the basement. The steam formed in 
the boilers connected to the furnaces 
is used to power the two large steam 
engines located on the first floor. 
There are also two gas engines oh 
the first floor. The engines are used 
to operate the electric generators. 
The spent steam from the steam en
gines is used in the heating system 
of the college.
One of the unique possessions of 
Carnegie Tech is the uniflow steam 
engine in Machinery Hall, it being 
the first actual engine of its type 
built in America. - It was construct
ed by Mesta Machine Company 
from plans and, patents obtained by 
Prof. Trinks in 1908 in Germany, 
where the engine had just been de
veloped. The engine, still in good 
working order, has a twenty-seven 
ton fly wheel Uniflow steam engines 
are now used all over America.
The power plant at the present 
time is operated by four engineers, 
three firemen, and two coal passers. 
The machinery of'the plant is open 
to inspection by the seniors in the 
electrical and mechanical engineer
ing departments. In the plant are 
several series of gears made by stu
dents illustrating* . principles of 
kinematics.
As a matter of interest, the fur
naces burn about 9,000 tons of coal 
a year. The amount of coal used 
per day varies with the tempera
ture, the number of'degrees below 
65 degrees Fahrenheit being ap
proximately the actual number of 
tons used.
Until next week, when youll find 
out why the Cut is so named, so 
long!
Student Liaison Committee . . .
Continued, from page 2
Will the student body as a whole have any say in the Committee, and if so, how will this be accomplished?
Again the answer is yes. The six student members of the Committee 
are the representatives of the student body, and will at all times keep in 
touch with it, by formal ballots, and by simple gathering of pinion. Furth
ermore, the students are urged to bring any question which they believe 
merit consideration, to the attention of the Committee. How this will be 
accomplished most efficiently has not yet been determined, bvft the members 
of the Committee have pledged themselves to make it possible.
How are the members of the Liaison Committee selected?
Although the ultimate aim of the Committee is the promotion of de
mocracy at Carnegie Tech, the members preferred to be efficient rather 
than blindly democratic in the selection of future members. Previous elec
tions at Carnegie Tech have shown but too well that the victory of the J>est 
man is the exception rather than the rule due to the power politics everted 
by certain groups. The Committee therefore decided to appoint its mem
bers, hoping that someday the students of Carnegie Tech will be able to 
elect men on their ability. When this has been achieved, members to the 
Committee will be elected.
Th Liaison Committee will only concern itself with questions arising 
in the College of Engineering. However, there is a decided need for similar 
committees in the other colleges, and the students of these colleges should 
consider the existence of the Liaison Committee as challenge to their initia
tive, prompting them to originate such a committee in their own college.
f
