Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaVolume 84, Issue 9
Crash kills studentPolice chase ends in Shadyside fatality
By ERIC W. LEULEETTE
Tartan Contributing Editor
Junior Michael Golden died 
early Saturday morning after 
crashing his car in Shadyside. 
Golden, 20, was fleeing from po
lice at the time of the accident. An 
Electrical and Computer Engi
neering major, Golden was a 
member of Sigma Nu fraternity.
According to Pittsburgh Police, 
Golden had been traveling the 
wrong way on Bouquet Street near
Forbes Avenue at about 1 am 
when he hit a car stopped in traf
fic. Policeman Robert Zwyer was 
on foot patrol at that intersection 
in Oakland and was nearly hit by 
Golden.
Golden proceded to Fifth Ave
nue. Speeding eastbound, he 
struck another car at Bellefield 
Street. City policeman Jeffrey 
Dean received a radio report from 
Zwyer and began pursuing 
Golden. Officer Tracy Schweitzer 
was waiting in her patrol car at
Fifth and South Negley Avenues 
when Golden apparently at
tempted to make a sharp turn 
into a parking lot near Shadyside 
Manor.
His car skidded 150 feet across 
the inbound lanes, flipped over 
the curb, and crashed through 
hedges. The car landed upside 
down in the front yard of the home 
of Dr. J ay Silverman at 5619 Fifth 
Avenue. Special tools were re
quired to free Golden from the Junior Michael Golden was killed early Saturday(morning when I 
continued on page 4 control of his car and crashed in the front yartj'of a Shadyside I
GLENN m ' LENN HILLER T - Hium
CCCI-tESTOAj f I
Ballroom swine's to 40s tunes ...
photo by Dan Giure;
Larrry O'Brien, leader of the Glenn Miller Orchestra, plays the trombone In front of a crowded Skibo Ballroom Friday night. The concert 
was sponsored by AB Dance.
Senate
slashes
budgets
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan News Editor 
& JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Contributing Editor
The budgets of all Activities Fee funded 
organizations will be trimmed by two 
percent and the budgets of 11 groups 
that will come before Senate tonight will 
suffer deeper cuts, if a proposal passed 
3-0 in the Funding and Recognition Com
mittee is approved by the full Senate.
The things that get cut, said F&R 
Chair Nicole Brockmann at last 
Tuesdays Senate meeting, will be the 
extravagances  the things that can 
wait until next year.
The cuts represent Senates attempt 
to make up for an overestimate in avail
able Activities Fee monies. If approved 
by the full Senate, the plan will replace 
a motion passed by Senate last Tuesday 
that called for a two percent cut from 
budgets approved last spring and a five 
percent cut from the 30 budgets to be 
approved tonight.
Senate passed that motion nearly 30 
minutes after making $1,248 in special 
allocations. Members of both Senates 
Executive Committee and F&R Com
mittee were aware of the budget probCarnergiM ar loUi v
Committee continues planning for 90 Beaux Arts
By RANDY UDAVCAK
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Plans for the 1990 Beaux Arts 
Ball have moved ahead signifi
cantly, as a final proposal outlin
ing the rules and regulations for 
the event has been ratified by 
student and administrative com
mittees.
Despite the lack of detail in the 
document, its ratification marks 
a turning point in negotiations, 
as regulatory questions have been 
the largest obstacle to the Ball.
The proposal calls for a number
of specific regulations. Among the 
major points outlined by the pro
posal is the prohibition of any 
alcohol on CFA premises  alco
holic beverages will neither be 
served nor allowed.
The proposal mandates that a 
maximum 2,200 tickets be avail
able for purchase and requires 
minimum sales of 1,000 tickets 
for reasons of economic feasibil
ity. Attendance will be limited to 
CFA students, staff, faculty, 
alumni, and their guests. No more 
than two tickets will be sold to 
any person.
Ticket prices have been set at 
$30 for students and $35 for fac
ulty, staff, and alumni: According 
to the proposal, the prices reflect 
the freedom from need of any 
supplemental University fund
ing, the aim being for the entire 
event to operate on a balanced 
budget. The proposal does, how
ever, allow for a seed fund of a 
presently undetermined amount 
to be borrowed from the Univer
sity and paid back in January to 
cover initial expenses in lieu of 
funds that will be later generate^ 
from ticket sales. The loan procedure will be uncjer the auspices of 
the finance office of the Dean of 
Student Affairs.
In contrast to the guidelines, 
the format of the proposal is de
cidedly vague in regards to mat
ters of maintaining order. It out
lines few specific plans for pre
vention'of damages and violation 
of ruls.
Oi/e provision that is clearly 
delineated in the proposal, how
ever, is that no one is to be admit/ed or re-admitted to the Ball after 
midnight. It seems harsh, but 
its kind of necessary to keep some
semblance of control, said Beaux 
Arts Ball Committee Co-chair 
Mariko Braswell. It was really 
raucous before.
According to sources within 
Physical Plant and Campus Po
lice, the lowest estimates for 
damages that occurred during the 
last Beaux Arts Ball, in 1985, 
were above $40,000. Numerous 
sporadic incidents of vandalism 
occurred, such as the splitting of 
the door to room 300 during a 
break-in attempt and the removal 
of a bathroom partition in the 
CarnergiM ar loUi s
CFP rush chair proposes 
structured spring rush
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Spring rush at Carnegie Mellon has never 
been as big an event as its fall counterpart. 
However, a new proposal for a structured 
spring fraternity rush that is to be brought 
before the Council of Fraternity Presidents 
Thursday may change that.
CFP Rush Chairman Fred Goff, a Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon brother, is behind the new 
proposal. The main points to be considered 
will be the date to begin, pledge night, and 
general policiesthe proposed structure is 
nearly identical to the fall.
A structured spring program, according 
to Goff, will not only increase the Greek 
population, but may help reduce pressure 
on those who are rushing. People will be 
aware that recruitment is officially twice a
year. Fall rush involves a great deal of par
ties, and there is a good deal of pressure with 
that. In the spring, the party pressure would 
be less, and the understanding of the Greek 
system would be a little better because people 
will have been on campus for a while  
maybe it can break down some of the stere
otypes that all Greeks do is party  but we 
can only hope.
Since there are 14 fraternities on campus 
and none has a membership quota, Goff said, 
anyone interested in Greek life can find a 
house he clicks with. A spring rush will give 
people that much more of an opportunity to 
find that particular house.
Vem Lei, rush chairman at Delta Tau 
Delta, is in favor of the proposal. Why 
shouldnt we try  it can only add to the 
Greek system.
CarnergiM ar loUi t
photo by Thomas Nichols
Soviet student Maria Frolova (left), speaks with Jeff Rosenblum and Student 
Government President Mark Mlttelhauser at a luncheon Thursday hosted by 
Student Pugwash, a group concerned with the ethical applications of technology.
CMU football joins 
Washington and Jefferson 
at the top of the PAC after 
beating the Presidents 
Saturday.
See page 9.
Dr. John Harvey has his 
work cut out for him as 
Carnegie Mellons athletic 
director.
See page 9.
The CMU rugby team 
wins one and loses one 
against the Allegheny 
Gators.
See page 10.
Features
What students do to 
their rooms.
See page LI.
A war correspondent 
talks about the Vietnam 
War.
See page L3.
Diversions
The Drama Department 
presents Billy Wilsons I 
Heard America Singing.
See page L9.
Woody Allens new 
movie, Crimes and 
Misdemeanors, is his best to 
date.
See page L9.
Index
Classifieds...........................11
Comics................................L5
Diversions...........................L9
Features.............................LI
Forum.....................................6
Sports....................................9
University Calendar........12
Inside
News
Reserve funds accumu
lated by campus stores may 
be used for the University 
Center.
See page 3.
 Six days of glasnost 
ended Friday when 
Chautauqua at Pitt closed.
See page 5.
Forum
The administration 
explains its reasons for 
closing the HH20 cluster.
See page 6.
Columnists dismissal of 
left was uneducated and 
stereotypical, according to 
one reader.
See page 8.
Sports
THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

y,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Only 163 more days until Carnival!
It's not too early to get involved. 
The Carnival Committee is looking for chairs and assistants in all areas. 
Come to the next meeting  today at 5:30pm in Skibo 201.
City posts signs, tickets cars 
along Margaret Morrison
Street cleaning on Margaret Morrison Street last week meant 
parking tickets for many Carnegie Mellon students.
Pittsburghs Department of Public Works cleaned one half of 
the street where many students park their cars. The city issued 
fines of $32.50 to any cars parked on the street. According to 
Campus Police, cars received tickets for each day they were on the 
street between 7 am and 3 pm.
The citys Department of Public Works posted no parking 
signs along Margaret Morrison to inform students of the change. 
The Campus Parking Office claims it was informed by the city 
just before students, and further states that the University was 
not consulted on the move. Margaret Morrison Street is city prop
erty, not campus property, allowing the city to perform the 
cleaning at will.
Students are warned that cleaning of city streets will continue 
this week and that they should find other places to park their cars 
until cleaning ends.
Campus leaders implement 
recycling programs
Student Government President Mark Mittelhauser told Sen
ate last week that he is setting up a recycling program in 
cooperation with BFI, the company that handles most of the 
schools waste. He said that he hopes to have a program set up 
soon in Warner Hall and UCC. Mittelhauser is also planning 
meetings in the future with Alcoa to discuss aluminum recycling 
and with P&S to discuss glass recycling.
The Department of Environmental Health and Safety is de
ploying a pilot recycling program in Morewood Gardens. Recep
tacles for all beverage cans will be placed in each lounge, hallway, 
apartment, and recreation room. The program will be in place by 
the end of Thanksgiving break.
For more information, contact Jeff Rosenblum at x7858 or send 
electronic mail to recycling@andrew.
Former statistics department 
head, DeGroot, dies of cancer
Morris H. DeGroot, a professor in the statistics department, 
died Thursday of lung cancer. He was 58 years old.
DeGroot held degrees from Roosevelt University and the Uni
versity of Chicago. He came to Carnegie Mellon in 1957 as an 
assistant professor in the mathematics department and eventu
ally became the founding head of the statistics department.
DeGroot was well known for his research in economics. He was 
elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1980 and in 1987 he 
co-authored a book on Bayesian economic analysis with Carnegie 
Mellon President Richard Cyert.
Carnegie Mellons flag flew at half mast on Friday in memoriam of DeGroot.
High school students recognition 
of Carnegie Mellon goes up
Removing the dash between Carnegie and Mellon and chang
ing the Universitys logo four years ago were ridiculed at the time, 
but may now be paying off.
According to Carnegie Mellons University Relations division, 
almost 83% of college-bound seniors now recognize Carnegie 
Mellon, up from 71% two years ago.
The University is also now a more popular choice for highschool seniors, according to the survey. When asked which of 12 
competitive universities they wanted to attend, students ranked 
Carnegie Mellon sixth. This new ranking placed CMU ahead of 
other competitors such as Michigan, MIT, and the University of 
Pennsylvania.
Congressman 
proposes acid 
rain fee
WASHINGTON (DJ)  An 
acid-rain proposal floated by Rep. 
John Dingell (D., Mich.) would 
help subsidize cleanup of the 
nations dirtiest utilities, break
ing with the White House over 
the crucial issue of cost-sharing.
The proposal, circulated for dis
cussion to members of Dingells 
House Energy and Commerce 
Committee, calls for a pollution 
fee on utilities, industries, and 
manufacturers that emit sulfur 
dioxide, which is a chief culprit of 
acid rain.
The fees, which could raise as 
much as $10 billion by the year 
2000, could be used by the dirtiest 
coal-fired utilities, mostly in the 
Midwest, to help pay for expen
sive scrubbing devices to reduce 
their stack emissions.
The proposal is an attempt by 
the Michigan Democrat, who is a 
key sponsor of Bushs clean-air 
bill, to help Midwestern 
lawmakers whose states would 
be hit with high utility-rate 
increases, without violating the
Bush administrations pledge 
against new taxes.
However, lobbyists and con
gressional staffers are already 
calling the pollution fee a tax.
Savings bond 
sales postponed 
indefinitely
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Sales 
of U.S. Savings Bonds have been 
suspended indefinitely because 
Congress has failed to enact leg
islation raising the federal debt 
limit, the Treasury Department 
reported.
Without new legislation to in
crease the debt limit, the govern
ment lacks authority to issue any 
new debt obligations, a Treasury 
statement said.
Without the legislation, the 
governments borrowing author
ity at midnight Tuesday dropped 
from $2.87 trillion to $2.80 tril
lion.
The House voted to raise the 
debtceilingto $3.1 trillion forthis 
fiscal year, but Senate legislation 
has been blocked by a squabble 
over whether to cut the capital 
gains tax.
Congress votes 
to restore 
Norths pension
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The 
Senate approved legislation that 
would restore the military pen
sion of $23,000 a year to retired 
Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North 
despite his felony convictions in 
the Iran-Contra scandal. Adopted 
78-17, the bill was initiated by 
conservative Sen. Jesse Helms (R., 
N.C.), but won bipartisan sup
port after being modified last 
night at the suggestion of Senate 
Judiciary Committee Chairman 
Joseph Biden (D., Del.).
Exxon steps down 
from wildlife 
advisory board
WASHINGTON (AP)  Exxon 
Corp. is resigning from the Na
tional Wildlife Federations cor
porate advisory panel, saying the 
conservation group has been un
fairly critical of the Exxon Valdez 
oil spill along the Alaskan coast.
The federation said Friday that 
it regrets the resignation, but is
sued a stinging response that 
called Exxon a corporate pariah 
that should keep am open dia
logue with environmentalists.
Bush, Congress 
agree to raise 
minimum wage
WASHINGTON (AP) Presi
dent Bush and the Democraticcontrolled Congress agreed today 
to raise the hourly minimum wage 
to $4.25 by April 1991, the first 
increase in nearly a decade.
For the first time since the mini
mum wage was established 50 
years ago, employers will be able 
to pay a sub-minimum training 
wage to teenagers with little work 
experience.
Briefs courtesy of 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Page two edited by 
Farron W. Levy 
and 
Michael J. Ewedosh
WORLD NEWS
Ortega suspends 
truce with 
Contra rebels
MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) 
President Daniel Ortega today 
ended his leftist Sandinista 
governments 19-month truce 
with the Contra rebels, citing con
tinued rebel attacks.
He accused President Bush of 
supporting terrorism in Nicara
gua.
By suspendingthetruce, Ortega 
was inviting renewed U.S. mili
tary aid to the Contras. Ortega 
made the announcement at a news 
conference this m oming that was 
broadcast five on a nationwide 
radio chain.
Ortega startled a meeting of 
hemispheric heads of state in 
Costa Rica Friday by announcing 
he would not renew the cease-fire 
as the government has done 
monthly. He has since been sof
tening his stance.
By going through with the 
threat, he could trigger interna
tional condemnation and loss of 
support of Western European 
friends, who in the past have 
defied U.S. pressure and aided 
Nicaraguas leftist Sandinista 
government.
Nixon urges 
Chinese to keep 
ties with U.S.
BEIJING (AP)  Former U.S. 
President Richard Nixon urged 
China against returning to the 
backwater of oppression and 
stagnation and called on the U.S. 
and China to rise above the acri
mony of the moment and restore 
good relations.
Nixon, the most prominent 
American to visit China since the 
June military crackdown on pro
democracy dissent, made the 
remarks at a banquet hosted by 
Premier Li Peng.
He said the killing of unarmed
citizens as troops stormed Bei
jing to recapture student-held 
Tiananmen Square had cast a 
shadow over our relations.
The two sides must recognize, 
he said, that our differences over 
recent events are huge and unbr
idgeable. But he added: Let us 
not become mired in endless and 
fruitless recriminations over the 
seeming impasse ... Both of our 
nations must now deal realisti
cally with the aftermath.
Bush keeps open 
possible aid to 
Contras
WASHINGTON (AP)  Presi
dent Bush is sending mixed sig
nals about seeking military aid 
for the Nicaraguan Contras. We 
will leave our options open, Bush 
said yesterday after visiting El 
Salvadors ailing former presi
dent, Jose Napoleon Duarte, at 
Walter Reed Army Medical Cen
ter.
On Wednesday, after 
guan President Daniel 
called off a 19-month cease-fire 
Bush spokesman Marlin Fitzwa! 
ter said regarding the possibility 
of seeking military aid for 
rebels, We dont want to go 
route. We want free elections.
U.S. mission to 
Poland to help 
with reforms
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Presi. 
dent Bush said that three mem. 
bers of his cabinet will lead a 
presidential mission to Poland 
gauge how the U.S. can help.thij 
new non-Communist govern
ments economic changes.
Bush announced several weeks 
ago that he intended to send such 
a mission, composed of top gov. 
emment aides and business and 
labor leaders.
Bush said the group is to Toonon economic sectors where U,S, 
expertise can make a difference.

---------------------------------------------------

,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
senate to vote on proposal tonight...
Budget cuts come before Senate
CarnergiM fba9 loUi d
lems, but Senate as a whole was not in
formed of the budget crisis.
Senate allocates the $40 per semester 
fee paid by students carrying 19 units or 
more to student organizations. Funding 
from the Activities Fee is a two-step 
process. An organization must be recog
nized by Senate, and, if it desires fund
ing from the Activities Fee, the organiza
tion must submit a request to Senate, 
which has the authority to allocate Ac
tivities Fee monies.
Several senators questioned why the 
full Senate wasnt informed of the budget 
problems before making the allocations.
Brockmann said Friday she would have 
informed the full Senate of the crisis first 
if the allocations had been for larger 
sums of money. It occurred to me, too, 
she said. Informing Senate wasnt neces
sary, she said, because the allocations 
either had been reviewed by committee 
or were of a nature that couldnt be cut.
Associate Dean of Student Affairs Lois 
Cox discovered the overestimate in the 
activities fee fund two weeks ago when 
she received figures that differed from 
the original projection made last semes
ter. The exact amount of the overesti
mate is not known, but it was estimated 
at $26,000 by Student Government Pres
ident Mark Mittelhauser "and H&SS 
Senator Matthew Ruben.
The F&R committee decided to cut 
budgets passed last spring as well as the 
fall budgets to be decided on tonight. In 
the opinion of H&SS senator and F&R 
committee member Kirk Lenga, Its not 
fair for only certain groups to bear the 
cuts. Cutting both makes a fairer distri
bution of cuts.
If Senate were to approve the budgets 
tonight without making any cuts, it would 
go into a deficit of nearly $500. Senate 
would have no money available until 
July 1 unless it dipped into the reserve.
The reserve contains the six percent of 
the total activities fee budget that Sen
ate is required by its fiscal policy to set 
aside. That contingency fund now holds 
approxim at ely $30,000. Accor ding to the 
fiscal policy, the purpose of the reserve is 
to protect Senate from financial loss. The 
reserve has been used in the past to cover 
unexpected expenses such as $10,000 in 
unbudgeted Spring Carnival electrical 
expenses last year.
It is not clear whether Senate would be
permitted by its constitution to use the 
reserve in place of the proposed budget 
cuts, but neither Cox nor any of the 
senators interviewed thought that it 
would be advisable to do so.
Nor is it certain that Senate is permit
ted to reduce appropriations that have 
already been made. No section of either 
the constitution or the fiscal policy ad
dresses the issue. According to .Brock
mann, the question of whether Senate is 
permitted to cut budgets in this way was 
not raised at Tuesdays meeting and was 
not being investigated by Senate.
Organizational leaders contacted by 
The Tartan werent greatly disturbed by 
the news of the two percent cuts.
Im disappointed, but I understand 
that its something that has to be done, 
said Fred Goff, president of CMUs Big 
Brothers and Sisters. Its going to limit 
our expansion and growth this year. 
The organizations budget was cut indi
vidually, prior to the across-the-board 
cuts.
Ed Abadines, president of the Asian 
Student Association, said that his or
ganization plans to rely more on fun
draising. Well be short-handed on a few 
events, he said. Were just going to 
have to try to make up for it in fundrais
ing.
Mark Robson of the Hockey Club said 
he didnt think the cuts would affect his 
club a great deal. However, he ques
tioned exactly where cuts could be made. 
I dont know what we could cut, he said.
Robson was not happy with Senates 
decision, though. I dont like to see 
[Senate] taking money away that was 
budgeted.
ASAs Abadines agreed. It will be a 
problem if they make cuts every year, 
he said.
Confusion centered on the nature of 
the error that led to the incorrect esti
mate that Senate eventually received.
I always expect a September adjust
ment, Cox said, but I dont expect it to 
be that large an amount. Cox told the 
Senate last Tuesday that she thought 
the error resulted from students who are 
not required to pay the entire Activities 
Fee being counted as Activities-Fee-paying students.
The Student Activities Fee is paid by 
every student who is registered for 19 
units or more, Cox said. When the 
information was put into the system this
year, they put in credits for every stu
dent, not just the ones who were taking 
19 units and greater, and we based things 
on that income. When we discovered the 
mistake, and got the true figures of the 
total number of activities fee paying 
students for fall of 1989, thats when we 
realized that the budgets had to be cut. 
According to Cox, there are usually 
minor adjustments from the estimated 
activities fee total, generally a few thou
sand dollars at most. However, the size 
of this years adjustment indicated to her 
immediately that something was wrong.
When I saw this journal entry taking 
$26,000 away, I said "Wait a minute, 
whats going on? You usually dont have 
transfers of $26,000. I went to the 
Registrars Office and asked them for a 
number of all activities fee paying stu
dents - 19 units or more, undergradu
ates and graduates. That was when I got 
that figure and compared it to my poten
tial income statement, and there was 
this big difference. That was when I 
discovered the error.
According to Registrar Richard 
Rainsberger, Information was not mis
takenly entered.
Rainsberger said Friday that his office 
did not do anything differently this year 
than in the past five years, with the 
exception that activities fee adjustments 
for part-time and graduate students were 
made manually. He said that the prob
lems surrounding the numbers were a 
complete surprise.
Last spring, we discovered that the 
program we use was not automatically 
making the student activities fee adjust
ment, Rainsberger said. We didnt try 
to make any changes in the program (to 
repair it) in June when we discovered it, 
because our resources were devoted to 
the new Student Information System. 
Manual adjustment of Activities Fees 
for part-time and graduate students 
should not have affected anything, 
claimed Rainsberger, because it was 
finished by mid-September, which is 
when it is normally computed.
Rainsberger said that he didnt under
stand why a problem arose this year. He 
said that since his office did nothing 
differently, he doesnt understand where 
an error could have been made. Shes 
[Cox] been controlling the Student Ac
tivities Fee for a longtime. I cant believe 
she [got the figures] at any other time
Senates proposed cuts in fall budgets
^OrganizationAmount
CutSpecific Items Affected^
[^Ballroom Dance
V
2750Four dances instead of 
eight, has to charge $2 
for lessons instead of $1 J
Big Brothers/Big Sisters
V___
1750Programs will begin later 
this year tiian expected, 
fewer visits per child, less 
printing and advertising
J
Juggling Club 
V
145AFewer office supplies, has 
to choose between a 
unicycle or books and 
periodicals J
r .........
Macintosh Users Group
v
1525No backup storage unit
J
^Mens Lacrosse750No new uniforms ^
/^Objectivist Club
V
1100Lost travel money for ^ 
speakers; told to try to 
make cooperative 
arrangements with 
Political Speakers Forum 
Board J
Spring Carnival
V
5000Less money for repair ^ 
and maintenance, may 
have to return to Senate 
for more money later in 
the year J
sUniversity Rowing Club
V
2400One new boat instead of ''j
two J
fVoices United Gospel Choir
V
250No hand painted publicity 
bannerJ
f Womens Lacrosse 
V
250Fewer lacrosse sticks 
than requested J
In addition to these cuts, Senate will vote tonight on a proposed two percent 
across-the-board cut for all Activities Fee funded organizations.
than she did any other year.
Nor did he know where Cox got the 
figures she used in her initial estimates. 
He said that she never asked him any
thing about the Activities Fee adjust
ments made by his office.
Student Senate Chair Frank DiVito 
said he didnt think that all of the ad
justments were made as late as two 
weeks ago.
Computer Science Senator Michael
graphic by Grant Carmichael 
Witbrock inquired at Tuesdays Senate 
meeting whether the Activities Fee should 
be raised.
Cox said she would like to see the Ac
tivities Fee raised for next year. I dont 
think that the Student Activities Fee at 
its current level was meant to support the 
number of new organizations that are 
coming in, said Cox. She said that she 
would like to see the fee raised to at least 
$100 per year.
Bookstore, art store reserve fund may go to University Center
, By FARRON W. LEVY
| Tartan Assistant News Editor
A $1.4 million reserve fund built 
' up through bookstore and art store 
i profits may be applied to con| struction of the planned UniverJ sity Center, according to Associ\ ate Director of Campus Opera! tions Oscar Mayer.
Though they are non-profit, 
! neither the bookstore nor the art
store has ever realized a net 
annual loss. Deposits into the 
reserve are made each year from 
a certain amount of money budg
eted specifically for that purpose 
by the stores, as well as from any 
profits realized by the stores in a 
fiscal year.
We budget about $25,000 for 
the art store and $90,000 for the 
bookstore a year, said Mayer. 
The money is taken out of the
earnings from the two stores and 
put into an account earmarked 
for the replacement of equipment 
and keeping things running 
smoothly  its a standard prac
tice for businesses.
In the 1984-85 fiscal year, after 
expenses, $124,500 remained in 
the bookstores account, and 
$9,100 remained in the art stores 
account. In the 1985-86 fiscal year, 
the bookstore had $144,700 and
the art store $8,200. This money 
has been added with the capital 
transfers to equal the present $1.4 
million fund.
Mayer said that this accumula
tion of funds has been made in 
anticipation of a new bookstore. 
Mary Lou Hartnett, the manager 
of the bookstore, describes the 
situation. Ive been trying for two 
years to get more space. We just 
dont have space for the books any
more.
She also points out that the 
problem is multiplied with the 
rush on books at the beginning of 
each semester.
The bookstores space problems 
are so bad that action to alleviate 
the space problem may have to be 
taken before the new building can 
be built.
According to Hartnett, using the 
space occupied by the Kiltie Cafe
is an option under consideration. 
When food service moves out of 
Skibo next year, we can move our 
gift stock over there  or at least 
I hope so.
The best and most likely solu
tion to the bookstore space crunch 
is to utilize the proposed Univer
sity Center, according to Mayer. 
He said that the money accumu
lated in the reserve fund will go 
CarnergiM ar loUi s
University Student 
Ambassadors
Would you like to:
- Have dinner with Carnegie Mellon University
Trustees
- Give a campus tour to the Israeli ambassador
- Meet U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh
- Attend a reception with Peter Ueberroth
These are just some of the advantages of being 
a University Student Ambassador. To find out 
more about the program, plan to attend one of the 
informational meetings. They are scheduled for 
Thursday, November 9 in Skibo Room 13 and 
Wednesday, November 15 in the Faculty Lounge, 
Skibo at 6 p.m.
Requirements:
- Full time undergraduate student
- Q.RA. of at least 2.5
- Outstanding communication and leadership skills
Application forms are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk, the Office of Special Events at 
3030 Hamburg Hall and at the University Relations 
Office at 5017 Forbes Avenue. Applications must 
be returned to the Office of Special Events, 3030 
Hamburg Hall, no later than 5 p.m., Friday 
November 17.
The University Student Ambassador program is sponsored 
by the University Relations Division.

---------------------------------------------------

s,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Beaux Arts Ball planning includes optimism, prevention
CarnergiM fba9 loUi d
mezzanine floor mens room. One 
of the most serious damages was 
the tampering with a water valve 
in room 401, which, according to 
the police report, caused water 
damage through much of the rest 
of the building.
Citations and arrests duringthe 
1985 Ball were also numerous, 
includingoffenseslike disorderly 
conduct and possession of an un
identified white powder by two 
students, which field tests later 
identified as cocaine. It was like 
the fall of Rome, recalls Campus 
Police Sergeant William Ricci.
Because of past occurences, the 
administrations main concerns 
remain the problems of alcohol 
and damage to the building. Al
though the proposal is straight
forward in its prohibition of alco
hol, it offers no guidelines for 
prevention. As for damage, the 
proposal states only that Dis
creet surveillance for illegal sub
stances and vandalism will be 
provided during the Ball accord
ing to the satisfaction of the CMU 
administration and the Beaux 
Arts Ball Committee.... Necessary 
precautions will be taken to pre
vent unintentional damage to 
University property."
According to Braswell, the aim 
of the committee now is to get 
more students from all areas of 
CFA involved in the process. 
What were kind of hoping is that 
more students will get involved 
as the momentum builds toward 
the actual date ofthe Ball.... Were 
really encouraging music stu
dents and more drama students 
to help out as well. We already
Discreet surveillance for illegal substances and vandal
ism will be provided during the Ball according to the sat
isfaction of the CMU administration and the Beaux Arts 
Ball Committee. Necessary precautions will be taken to 
prevent unintentional damage to University property.
 Beaux Arts Ball 1990 Rules and Regulations
have a lot of art students and 
architecture as well as some de
signers involved, and wed like to 
get everybody represented. Thats 
the whole point of the Ball, it is to 
really celebrate the art and to 
make this ball a culmination of 
all our talents and imagination. 
The theme of this years Ball is 
Risorgimento, which according
to a promotional document, con
notes a renaissance, a cultural 
revival, an infusion of new deter
mination. Originally, the student 
committee had decided on the 
word syncopy. Everyone was 
really excited because it was one 
word, and it was mysterious  
no one really knew what it meant, 
said Braswell. The idea was
dropped, however, after it was 
later discovered that the term 
meant a sudden loss of conscious
ness. It seemed funny, said 
Braswell. We rethought it, and 
also we looked it up, and in fact 
its a medical term, so we decided 
against it.
We came up with something 
that, rather, meant a reawaken* i
ing and a renaissance.... Its very 
appropriate in all senses of thei 
word.
Current plans also call for an 
additional $1 to be added to the 
price of a ticket to create a sepa-^ 
rate fund to be donated to a char
ity upon the completion of the, 
Ball. No decision has as yet been 
reached on any specific cause or. 
organization. It will be something 
in Pittsburgh, said Braswell.
The Ball will be held on Satur
day, February 10. The event wil( 
begin at 10 pm and entertain*' 
ment will continue until 4 am. 
The event will be officially closed, 
an d the premises vacated at 5 am.) 
Ticket sales will begin near the 
start of the second semester.
Tartan Staffwriter Kelly WaU 
ter contributed to this story.
Crash claims students life
CarnergiM fba9 loUi d
car.
Neither Silverman nor his 
wife, who were sleeping on the 
third floor of the house, heard 
the crash or the medics who 
arrived at the scene. Golden 
had been extricated by the time 
Silverman came downstairs.
The county coroners office re
ported that Golden died at 2:16 
am Saturday morning of mul
tiple blunt-force trauma at Presbyterian-University Hospital. 
Jim Shaw, president of Sigma 
Nu, and CMU alumna Lori 
Brassaw were taken to the 
coroners office to identify the 
body. Golden was not carrying 
identification.
Acting Dean of Student Af
fairs Michael Murphy talked to 
brothers of Sigma Nu at their 
house on Saturday morning. 
Murphy said the counseling cen
ter is providing support for 
Goldens friends and members 
of Sigma Nu. The center had 
scheduled a meeting yesterday 
afternoon for people who wished 
to talk.
Murphy spoke to Goldens 
parents on Saturday. Golden, 
an only child, was a resident of 
Silver Spring, Maryland.
At press time Murphy antici
pated that a memorial service 
would be held here early this 
week.
Golden had pushed for Sigma 
Nus buggy program and was a 
CMAP participant.
According to Gloria Hill, di
rector of CMAP, Golden was a 
good student. He was one of the 
students we had identified as 
the recipient of a Kodak schol
arship based on his perform
ance of his freshman year. He 
was just a good kid.
Stores reserve may go to University Center
CarnergiM fba9 loUi v
towards establishing the new 
bookstore; remaining funds will 
be put into the University Center 
project as a whole. It seems to me 
to be perfectly appropriate to 
apply [the extra funds] to the 
University Center  it is money 
from the university community 
and it will go back into the community by way of helping with 
the new University Center, he 
said.
Mayer said he feels that some of 
the extra money has already been 
put back into the university com
munity by discounts given at the 
two stores.
We have increased the student 
discount from 5 percent to 10 per
cent to 15 percent, he said, a 
rate that you wont find at other 
universities.
As for the excess income that 
still exists, Mayer feels that it is 
better to run the stores with a 
surplus and route that money 
back into the university commu
nity than deal with the problems 
of running the stores with annual
losses.
Plans for the new center have' 
not been finalized, Mayer said, 
and until they are and planning* 
for the new bookstore can begin, 
the cost is still up in the air. 
simply dont know the costs. 
dont have a clearly defined pron 
gram of space or content of the 
bookstore. said Mayer.Crime and incident report: 10/23 to 11/3
10/23 PROPERTY DAMAGE,
5:57 pm. A student reported to 
Campus Police that he acciden
tally broke a window in Doherty 
Hall with a ball. The student was 
playing on the Cut at the time.
10/24 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 3:07 am. A male was is
sued an internal citation after 
being caught running in his 
underwear outside of Morewood 
Gardens.
10/24 THEFT, between 12 and
5 pm. A wallet was removed from 
an unlocked office in Porter Hall.
10/24 VEHICLE THEFT, 5:25 
pm. A red Honda was reported 
stolen from the Doherty Apart
ments parking area.
10/25 BURGLARY, 9:21 pm. 
Burglars entered through a par
tially opened window and stole 
over $20 from one of the London 
Terrace Apartments.
10/27 PROPERTYDAMAGE, 
5:23 am. Blue paint was thrown
on the windows and walls outside 
of Pi Lambda Phi.
10/29 THEFT, 1:55 am. A per
son reported that his jacket had 
been taken from one ofthe frater
nity houses.
11/2 THEFT & RECOVERY, 
4:50 pm. A purse was stolen from 
an unlocked room in Mellon Insti
tute. The purse was later recov
ered by Pitt Police in the Bellefield Annex and returned to its 
owner. Nothing was reported
stolen from the purse.
11/2 THEFT, 9:23 am. A2'by6' 
grey gym mat was stolen from the 
child care center in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall.
11/3 DISORDERLY CON
DUCT, 2:24 am. Two students 
were caught painting the eleva-' 
tor inside the CFA building and, 
were issued internal citations. Z
Compiled by DANIEL 
DE GRANDPRE
Gemi
With Macintosh 
you can even do this:
Macintosh* computers have always been easy to use. But theyve never 
been this easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale.
Through January 31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety 
of Apple Macintosh computers and peripherals.
So now theres no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The 
Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer.
Without spending a lot more money
New
Open...o
hmaLi
Eogi
Print...gp
Ngenm
masugetstBB isfr
019H9 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, tlx Apffle Icffo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc
The Macintosh Sale.Now through January 31.
CMU Computer Store 
UCC Bldg., A Level
Mon. 8:30-6:30, Tues.-Fri. 10:00-4:30


---------------------------------------------------

,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSct
Chautauqua at Pitt ends Friday; Soviets return home
jjy DANIEL DE GRANDPRE
Tartan Stafjwriter
Over 200 Soviet citizens said farewell 
lo Pittsburgh last Friday as Chautauqua 
at Pitt ended after six days of glasnost, 
tjr openness.
Thousands of Soviets and Americans 
participated in public forums unprece
dented in the United States, most nota
bly a Citizens Open Dialogue hosted 
1'astMonday by television talk show host 
fhil Donahue and Soviet journalist Vla
dimir Pozner.
Chautauqua at Pitt was a week-long 
international conference that brought 
^Soviet leaders and citizens to Pittsburgh 
to meet with their American counter
parts in open public discussions.
As part of the program, many of the 
Soviets lodged in the homes of local Pitts
burgh families for the week.
The conference ran from October 29 
through November 3, and featured pres
entations by U.S. and Soviet officials, as 
well as internationally known experts 
on trade and economics, nuclear and 
conventional arms reduction, human 
rights, womens and family issues, re
gional tensions, religion, the environ
ment, drug abuse, and space explora
tion.
Plenary sessions and workshops 
throughout the week were free and open 
to the public. During the weeks activi
ties, headphones were supplied to every
one inside the Syria Mosque for simulta
neous translations in both Russian and 
English.
Chautauqua Institution President 
Daniel L. Bratton opened the conference 
at ceremonies in the Syria Mosque on 
Sunday, October 29.
Bratton elaborated on the importance 
of the Chautauqua conference series as a 
way for Americans and Soviets to be
come better acquainted without govern
ment propaganda and media bias.
Director of the U.S. Information Agency 
(USIA) Bruce S. Gelb delivered a parcipatory message from President Bush. 
Chair of the Union of Soviet Friendship 
Societies, Valentina Tereshkova, the firBt 
woman in space, then read a similar
message from Soviet Premier Gorbachev.
Both Gorbachev and Bush praised 
Chautauqua as a major step towards 
furthering economic and social alliances 
between the superpowers.
Glasnost and perestroika were the two 
key words in the Citizen Open Dia
logue held Monday, October 30.
Donahue and Pozner responded to 
dozens of questions from audience par
ticipants. Participants not directly in
volved with Chautauqua were required 
to pay a general admission charge to par
ticipate.
Donahue and Posvar responded to 
various questions, including the impli
cations of the recent police breakup of a 
protest outside of KGB headquarters in
Moscow, where 40 protestors were re
portedly arrested, and whether or not 
the Soviets stereotype Americans as 
drug-addicted, homeless, racist, unedu
cated, arrogant pimps.
Noteworthy plenary sessions included 
The Current State of U.S.-Soviet Rela
tions with USSR Deputy Minister of 
Foreign Affairs Vladimir V. Petrovsky 
and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State 
Curtis W. Kamman, Questions of Coop
eration in Space for the United States 
and Soviet Union, Women in Contem
porary Society," The Environment: 
Cooperation of the United States and 
Soviet Union in Solving Global Prob
lems, and Medical and Social Aspects 
ofDrug andAlcohol Abuse in the 1990s.
Ahrideed Senate minutes 10/31...Senate discovers funding shortage, tables proposal to limit postering
Special Business: Mr. Frater
nity received a special allocation 
for $678. Mr. Fraternity is a non
profit fundraiser for the Karin 
Johnson Fund. The event is exjjfected to raise $3,000 for charity. 
*The Dance Marathon for the 
Make-A-Wish Foundation was 
given $100. This will be used for 
th sound system provided by AB 
Tech.
^ Focal Point was given a special 
Allocation for $470. This money 
will be used for an evening of 
cultural exchange.
President  Mark Mittelhauser: Mittelhauser and Jeff 
jfosenblum of the Environmental
Concerns committee will meet 
with BFI, who handles most of 
the campus waste, to set up a 
paper recycling program. He will 
be meeting with Alcoa to discuss 
aluminum recycling, and with 
P&S to discuss glass recycling.
Funding and Recognition 
Nicole Brockmann: The com
mittee has been looking into the 
recent problem of a shortage of 
funds available from the Activi
ties Fee. This situation has oc
curred due to a variety of reasons, 
among them an error in the 
Registrars office. The actual 
amount of money available from 
the Activities Fee is lower than
originally anticipated. As a re
sult, fall budgets are being re
evaluated.
Student Senate will be reduc
ing all fall budgets by a uniform 5 
percent and all spring budgets 
will be reduced by 2 percent. The 
motion passed on a hand vote of 
23 for, 0 against, and 1 absten
tion.
New Business: Hoy Conard 
brought up a postering proposal 
that was referred back to the 
Campus Affairs Committee by a 
voice vote. Please see Appendix I 
for the proposal.
Appendix I
As of January 16, 1990, there
will be a limit of three posters per 
event per billboard.
This ruling will help to reduce 
the amount of clutter on billboards 
on campus, reducing the strip
ing of billboards with posters, 
reduce the needto tear down other 
organizations posters (although 
not a final solution to this specific 
problem), and would also reduce
the amount of activity fee funds 
needed to be spent on posters (less 
posters, lower cost).
A limitation of three posters 
has been taken by Greek Organi
zations on campus, and it has 
been obeyed by Greek organiza
tions.
It has been successful at reduc
ing the amount of tearing down
and postering over of other post
ers.
This motion will be tabled and 
then untabled one week later to 
give time for the public relations 
committee to notify student or
ganizations and the general stu
dent body of the change, as well 
as to allow feedback from said 
students.
GFP to consider structured spring rush
CarnergiM fba9 loUi d
=Lei has reservations, however. 
With all the things going on in 
fhe spring  Greek Sing, Buggy, 
Booth  people are already 
stressed out, he said. For every
one to handle a rush in addition to 
that will be tough.
Darren DeFabo, rush chairman 
^f Kappa Sigma, agrees that the 
proposal is a good idea. The formal structuring of a spring rush, 
according to DeFabo, makes rush 
that much more effective. Under 
CFP, the Greeks can come to
gether and act on ideas that 
wouldnt be as effective if only one 
house did it  the effect of the 
whole is greater than the effect of 
the sum of its parts.
Now is a good time to imple
ment a serious spring rush program, says Goff. In 4-5 years it 
could become as strong an insti
tution as the fall rush.
At Thursdays CFP meeting, 
Goff said, we need to vote on 
dates in order to begin planning, 
but those will be flexible because 
there will be a new rush chair
man in December, and itll be up 
to him to run the program. I just 
want to get it started.
IORESEARCH TOOLS OF THE 1990s
A seminar via satellite sponsored by Millipore and 
the Pittsburgh Center for Biotechnology and Bioengineering
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1989 ROOM 232 - THE CATHEDRAL OF LEARNING
12:30 - 4:00 PM
Keynote Address: Dr. Charles R. Cantor of Lawrence Berkelv Laboratory 
TOPIC: HUMAN GENOME INSTRUMENTATION, 1999
Call the Center at 648-7956 to pre-register and receive free seminar materialsV
Sometimes you are what you dont eat
Think fast November 16.
Dont eat a thing on the Thursday before Thanksgiving.Then join the six million Americans who, since 1973, have mailed us the money they saved to support our life-saving projects.You'll not only tan what its like to go hungry.You'll know how good it feels to help those who are.Please write: Fast for a World Harvest, 115 Broadway, Dept. 4000, Boston, MA 02116. Or call for y-v < j. more information: I IVTiltYI MAmffieaT
Hal's Pizza234 Meyran Ave.
683-2525
All Ingredients made fresh daily 
Over 15 toppings 
Free 25 minute or less delivery
(weather permitting)
No one tops Hal's pizza!!
WALK-IN TUTORING
Sunday through Thursday, 8:00 -11:00 pm
Calculus
Physics
Chemistry
Biology
Academic Writing
WeH 5403 
WeH 5427 
WeH 5205 
WeH 5205 
WeH 5427
The Right Place to Turn.
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs.
Choose a job you love, 
and you will never have to work a day in your life.
-Confucius
Who are we?
- We are the Applications & Systems Consulting Group of 
DRI/McGraw-Hill.
- We are committed to producing quality products.
- We are committed to meeting project deadlines.
- We are professionals in all our client engagements.
- We encourage innovation from our staff.
- We welcome new ideas.
- We discuss all ideas in an open forum, involving all group 
members.
- We work hard to create an exceptional working environment.
- We are dedicated to our work and to each other.
- We are a team.
DRI/McGraw-Hill, the leading provider of economic and financial 
information, serves more than 1,000 client organizations in finance, 
industry, and government worldwide. We provide information to 
corporate and business professionals, financial managers, 
government analysts and policy makers to help them understand the 
past, clarify the present, and anticipate the future. We are a $60 
million/year, 500 person international company headquartered in 
suburban Boston, Massachusetts. To maintain our leadership, we are 
continuing our search for talented, highly motivated computer 
science professionals to develop the next generation of DRI 
microcomputer based products. In particular, we are seeking 
graduates with a B.S. in Applied Mathematics, preferably with, 
experience in PCs and 'C\
DRI/McGraw-Hill will be interviewing on-campus on November 9. 
We hope to see you there. Or call us at (617)860-6254.
DRI/McGraw-Hill
Choose a job you '11 love.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Be careful with our money
Although the reasons are com
plex and still unclear, it seems our 
elected representatives in Student 
Senate plan to slash the budgets 
of every Activities-Fee funded 
organization.
Senate needs to reclaim about 
$26,000 of the money it has al
ready allocated; early budget fig
ures apparently overestimated 
Senates income by roughly five 
percent. The fault for that miscal
culation probably lies in Warner 
Hall, but nobodys quite sure who 
made the mistake.
To reclaim the money, Senate is 
expected to hack two percent out 
of the budgets of every funded 
organization tonight, even though 
more than half of those budgets 
are for the fiscal year that began 
last July.
In addition, Senate is gouging 
deeper at 11 of the 30-odd organi
zations up for funding approval 
right now; Senates Funding and 
Recognition Chair Nicole Brockmann says Senate is eliminating 
extravagances from those 11 
budgets.
Its probably the best solution 
possible, given the pressing ne
cessity of keeping student govern
ment afloat  but its a solution 
nobodys going to like. Senates 
most recent fiasco has caused us 
to look deeper into how student 
money is handled in general, and 
we dont like what we see.
Last Tuesday, Senate passed 
more than $1,200 in special allo
cations just 30 minutes before it 
considered the problem of how to 
reclaim the needed funds. But 
nobody told Senate as a whole 
that there was a financial prob
lem looming on the horizon, and 
most Senators were unaware ofit.
Brockmann, who as F&R chair 
is accountable for keeping Senate 
up-to-date on how much money is 
left to allocate, claims that 
Tuesdays allocations either had 
been previously reviewed by the 
F&R committee or were of a criti
cal nature  so she didnt feel it 
was necessary to bore the Sena
tors with their bottom line.
Two of Tuesdays three alloca
tions totalled $778. That money 
was given to non-funded Greek 
organizations sponsoring chari
table events: Kappa Alpha Theta, 
for next weeks Mr. Fraternity; 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma and 
Phi Kappa Theta, for last 
Saturdays Dance Marathon.
Giving to charity is great  if
you can afford it. Brockmann says 
Senate is going after extrava
gances in student budgets, but 
didnt seem to think charitable 
events were extravagant enough 
to inform Senate to think twice 
before giving the money away.
Student Senate has a history of 
spending money like it grows on 
trees. We speak from personal 
experience  at our most recent 
budget hearing last Spring, Sen
ate gave The Tartan $5900 which 
we didnt ask for this fiscal year.
At about the same time it upped 
The Tartans budget, Senate ap
proved H&SS Senator Matthew 
Rubens impromptu proposal to 
give the Political Speakers Forum 
Board an unrequested $5000.
And before last weeks meeting, 
Senate had already used up nearly 
$20,000 out of the $30,000 ear
marked for this academic years 
special allocations, even though 
were just over one-quarter of the 
way through with the school year.
Meanwhile, each year the Ac
tivities Board and Carnival com
bine to come in typically $15,000 
over budget  but nobody thinks 
of making those organizations 
accountable for student money.
No one seems prepared to use 
part of the contingency fund, an 
emergency fund set up to handle 
extraordinary cases Senate can
not expect. Money from this fund 
could lessen the blow to the extravagent eleven. Why hasnt 
anyone thought about using it?
This isnt fun and games. Our 
elected officials are mishandling 
nearly a half million student dol
lars, and someone isnt keeping 
tabs on the bank account too well. 
Who is supposed to? On this point, 
the Student Government 
Constitution is vague.
We demand that Senate develop 
a plan to make sure it never again 
runs out of money. Some simple 
ideas: Dont spend what you dont 
have, and when you give out 
money, make someone account
able for how it gets spent. And for 
goodness sake, make a single 
elected official ultimately respon
sible for all our money.
Well, those of us who belong to 
Senate-funded organizations are 
going to have to tighten our belts 
a little. It also looks like all of us 
should pause and wonder where 
our money is going.
Maybe we should really think 
hard come Senate election time 
next month.
THE TARTAN
MenabHerHhPeifRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRTa-MO AeibCi
VoroUerU MenabRRRRRRRRRRRREni-obn jR piIeri
gLeriLL VoroUibRRRRRRRRRRR0gLL EimeU9or
4i-L MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRVeCPoim jR -iMaLP
BLLnR 4i-L MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRGobbar xR piIO
Gabg9 MenabLRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRREgi Bkbo9L
Far AeCDinn
GiongbiL MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRwiIer obriO
BLLnR GiongbiL MenabLRRRRRRRRRbeC VCBrommir
FiWnib ,R wakoOoLPm
ElabnL MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRwobOr EemIo
BLLnR ElabnL MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRwonei hgmkibnLar
FeIibLearL MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRVeCPoim ,R 0aLi
BLLnR FeIibLearL MenabLRRRREnilPir .mmCDib 
Fo-r baLarLDe
APana MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR,Pa9oL 4eCPamL
FobDbaa9 VoroUibRRRRRRRRRRRR,oM FaCDLnoMib
Bbn MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR.born hob9eCPoim
BLLnR Bbn MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRxemmeo9 hR Eokbo9
VoUoeri MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRjgMO TobokgbMo
BLLnR VoUoeri MenabRRRRRjirrefib wibLnimr
FaLLeib penibobO Menab RRRhPbeLnalPib wgLP
FaLLeib FiLeUr MenabRRRRRRRRRRRRRREaaH,Lg pirU
AbaMgCnear VoroUibRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRxemmeo9 gbDO
homirMob VoroUibRRRRRRRRRRRRR4onPor Ggmmibnar
halO VoroUibRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR4onomei AinibLar
harnbekgnerU MenabL 
jo9iL R rMbiL beC pigmminni
FgLner Gboeib jaiO pOrr VaroCa
jaronPor piIO jaLP 0gkir
Carnegie Mellon University's student newspaper since 1906
Tho Tartan is tha student newspaper ol Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspapor published by students during tho (all and spring semesters, at no cost to membors o( tho Univorsity community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing.Inc. Subscriptionsaro available lortho somestororacademicyear. The Edltorlalsappearingatthebeginnlngolthe opinion section are tho official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns are tho opinions of Individual authors. Lettors to tho Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily members of the Univorsity community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and includo the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names will bo withheld upon request. The Tartan reservos the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copy
right  19B9 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves thorighttowithholdfrompublicationanycopyitdeemsunfitforpubllcatlon.
:ffeCi1 EDeka t/ 2sdy3ySHyddd 
VoemerU oMMbiLL1 ,Pi ,obnor  aW d8
hobriUei Vimmar JreIibLenO 
AennLkgbUPq AB dtydvHvSc/ 
GgrMiM kO nPi BCneIeneiL GiiR
Bmm beUPnL biLibIiMR
pekbobO af harUbiLL ;EE4 61 /Sc/Hvd/8R
TiomerU -ar'n LgCCiiM -enPagn LngMirn Piml
Editor:
I am writing in response to a letter 
that appeared in the Tartans last issue 
[Students must have adequate health 
service, 10/31]. There are inaccuracies 
detailed in this letter that I am com
pelled to address.
Josh Ruben states that his girlfriend 
was told by the people at the Health 
Center that she had the flu and to 
rest up. He also notes that her tem
perature was not taken, which leads me 
to suspect that this individual simply 
sought advice rather than requesting to 
see a clinician. General advice is avail
able for students who choose not to see 
a nurse. If this student had been seen by 
a nurse, the minimum treatment would 
have included taking her temperature 
and giving her a physical exam for her 
complaints. If indeed the diagnosis was 
a viral infection, she would have been 
told to rest, drink fluids, and take Tyle
nol for bodyaches.
Students suffering from a viral illness 
are always told if they do not improve in 
5-7 days, they should return to the 
Health Center for recheck. The reason 
this advice is given is because a small 
percentage of those individuals who ini
tially develop a viral infection will go on 
to develop a secondary bacterial infec
tion which would then require antibiot
ics. It is not always possible to identify 
those individuals in whom this is likely 
to occur, and unfortunately, this is what 
happened in the case Mr. Ruben relates.
pinnibL na nPi Menab
This does not mean that the initial diag
nosis of viral illness was incorrect, but 
rather that this individual fell into the 
small percentage of individuals who go 
on to develop a secondary bacterial infec
tion. Lack of proper rest and nourish
ment can contribute to this happening.
Certainly, it is stressful for a student to 
miss classes or performances because of 
illness. However, the long-term risk of 
prolonged disability that can result from 
a secondary infection outweighs the short
term benefits of attending classes and 
continuing to perform while ill. When a 
voice major suffers from laryngitis, the 
most damaging thing to do is to continue 
singing. If Mr. Ruben is suggesting that 
we prescribe drugs for the sole purpose of 
keeping people in classes and perform
ances, I strongly disagree. Indiscrimi
nate use of drugs in this situation can be 
likened to the use of steroids which keep 
injured athletes in the game. Indiscrimi
nate use of antibiotics has led to the 
development of resistant strains of bacte
ria. Further, risk of allergic reactions, the 
development of secondary yeast infec
tions, and the effects on the gastro-intes
tinal system must be taken into consid
eration. Indiscriminate use of antibiot
ics, especially when used to treat viral in
fections, is not good medicine.
I, like Mr. Ruben, have been at CMU for
three years. I have been part of the trans
formation of the Health Center from 
limited operation with a full-time staff 
two registered nurses operating in an 
antiquated facility, to a completely reno
vated clinic with a professional staff of 
three registered nurses, two nurse prac
titioners, and a physician who is board 
certified in internal medicine. These in, 
dividuals have varied backgrounds ana 
have worked in emergency, medical-sur
gical, and even transplant medicine be
fore choosing student health as an area 
of specialization. College health medi
cine is our specialty and the suggestion 
that we are unable to deal with anything 
other than minor or superficial illnesses 
is indeed an insult to a highly experi
enced, well-educated staff.
I agree that drama and music students 
need, and are entitled to quality health 
care, as is every student on this campus 
regardless of major. There are no special 
cures for drama majors who develop viral 
infections. Unfortunately, medicine has 
yet to develop effective medications for 
or even develop an understanding of the 
workings of many viral organisms.
In conclusion, I would encourage any 
student who has a problem or complaint 
about the service to first approach the 
administrator in charge. We are sincere 
in our efforts to provide quality care and 
appreciate your input.
Anita L. Barkin, CRNP, MSN 
Director, Student Health ServiceFocus should have been CIA recruitment itself
Editor:
After reading last weeks Tartan, one 
could easily get the impression that some 
students felt that the protesters against 
CIA recruitment on CMUs campus had 
less legitimacy than the CIA had in 
being here.
They seemed to think that the CIA 
had a right to recruit on campus, and 
that the demonstrators were, in some 
way, interfering with this right.
When the CIA (or anyone else) re
cruits on campus they are exercising a 
privilege, riot a right. The privilege is 
one which is granted to them directly by 
college administrators, and indirectly 
by the student body itself. When the 
CIA recruits.it is not participating in a 
public debate or exercising freedom of 
speech, it is conducting private busi
ness and solicitation.
When people demonstrate in a peaceful 
and orderly fashion against granting that 
privilege to the CIA, those people are 
exercising a right. It is also their right to 
act collectively rather than to sit around 
and curse the CIA under their breath, so 
long as their collective action is peaceful 
and orderly (as it was at CMU).
It was also argued that since we do not 
see an effort to scrutinize the activities of 
other agencies and companies which 
recruit on campus, we should not scruti
nize the history and the activities of the 
CIA.
One would get the impression from 
this line of thinking that so long as one is 
on a roll in the area of silence and apathy, 
one should not want to break the momen
tum by actually taking a stand every on ce
in a while.
Although the privilege of the CIA to 
recruit on campus could be debated, I can 
hardly see much room for debating 
whether or not those who protested 
against the decision to grant the CIA^ 
that privilege had the right to do so 
Rather than dwelling on whether or not 
the-protesters should have been there, 
the proper focus should have been on the 
issue of CIA recruitment itself.
The protesters were not the issue that 
day. I would hope that we can all take fon 
granted their right to protest, and that 
we have not reached the point where we 
feel free only to affirm, and not to dissent 
against, the status quo.
Matt Hawkins 
Graduate Student, Applied HistoryClosing Hamerschlag cluster has multiple benefits
Editor:
I would like to communicate to you the 
action taken by the Space Allocation 
Board regarding the Hamerschlag Hall 
computer cluster, an'd the rationale for 
this action. At its October 27 meeting, 
the Space Allocation Board decided to 
close the Hamerschlag Hall computer 
cluster, located in Hamerschlag B130. 
This space was allocated to Electrical 
and Computer Engineering. This allo
cation will result in Electrical and 
Computer Engineering vacating four 
offices in Bureau of Mines Building B, 
which will provide needed space for the 
Office of International Education.
The Vice President for Academic Serv
ices made a presentation of computer 
clusters in general, and the Hamersch
lag Hall cluster in particular. Below is a 
summary of the presentation and dis
cussion which followed:
Currently there are almost 690 com
puters located in clusters and available 
to students on campus. Approximately
half of these machines are located in 
public clusters, and half in departmental 
clusters. Twenty machines are located in 
the Hamerschlag Hall B130 cluster.
A sampling, of utilization patterns was 
presented for the clusters located in 
Margaret Morrison Plaza, Wean Hall, 
the Hunt Library basement, and Hamer
schlag Hall. As was indicated by the Vice 
President for Academic Services, the 
Hamerschlag Hall utilization was sig
nificantly lower than that of the other 
clusters, and represents the lowest utili
zation pattern across all clusters. For the 
Spring 1989 semester, the sampling indi
cated that fewer than 50% of the ma
chines were being used during its heavi
est utilization period, with the normal 
utilization rate much lower.
There was a consensus among the Space 
Allocation Board, and members of the 
Academic Computing staff, that this clus
ter was not effectively addressing the 
computing needs of the student popula
tion. The machines currently located in
Hamerschlag B130 will be added to the 
other Academic Services clusters. This 
will increase the number of high demanfj 
machines in more accessible locations.
This action does not indicate a desire 
or effort to reduce the number of com
puter clusters or machines publicly avail
able to students on campus. While this 
cluster is being taken off line, it was 
pointed out that three new clusters wil 
be in operation by the fall of next year: 
the cluster in the new dormitory, a Mel
lon Institute cluster, and the Informa
tion Networking Institute cluster to be 
located in Hamburg Hall.
While the Mellon Institute cluster an 
the Hamburg Hall cluster will serve 
primarily students of specific depart
ments, they will reduce the overall 
demand for computers by students. These 
clusters will add more than 75 machine3 
to campus.
Patrick J. Keating 
Vice President University Plani11*

---------------------------------------------------

,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc8
CMU can prove itself better
Stew Levine
Finally, Carnegie Mellon is 
starting to get some recognition.
US News & World Report has 
come out with its 1989 university 
ratings. We missed out on the 
top 25 again, unlike Notre Dame 
and Georgetown. However, we 
did make the list of up and 
coming schools along with 
Arizona State and Rutgers. 
Carnegie Mellon is clearly on 
the rise.
Its good to see the University 
finally get some recognition. It 
seemed like all of those new 
information kiosks had been a 
waste of time, but maybe they 
werent after all.
US News ranked universities 
on academic reputation, student 
selectivity, retention patterns, 
faculty quality, and financial 
resources.
Call it a hunch, but I think I 
know where we got clobbered. 
Does the number $200 million 
mean anything to you?
Unfortunately, well never 
know where we didnt measure 
up. Maybe it was academic 
reputation after all, or th food 
in the cafeterias.
At least university presidents 
thought enough of CMU to vote 
it up and coming. Gee, thanks, 
the collegiate equivalent of the 
attaboy.
The Admissions Office should 
be able to take advantage of our 
new title. Instead of Carnegie 
Mellon: Commitment to
Excellence, it can put on our 
recruiting brochures Carnegie 
Mellon: Were not there yet, but
maybe someday or Carnegie 
Mellon: On its way up, even 
though were not quite sure 
where.
If it seems that Im not that 
excited about the ranking, its 
because Im not. Who wants to 
go to a school whichis acquiring 
a reputation? We want to go to 
schools which already have 
them.
We need to start thinking 
towards quick fixes which will 
put Carnegie Mellon in US 
News Top 25 in 1990. Picking 
the new president is a good 
place to start.
Maybe we should think about 
Ronald Reagan. People would 
finally know who we are and 
his hands-off management 
would make sure he doesnt do 
anything that could actually 
harm the school. Maybe hed 
even get us some more Star 
Wars contracts.
A simpler solution, but a more 
long-term solution, would be to 
create a journalism degree for 
the English department. Since 
its journalists who do these 
rankings every year, 
specifically journalists from 
Yale, Princeton, and Harvard, 
if we had a few of our own 
alumni writing the surveys we 
might do a bit better.
There is though, the 
possibility that Carnegie 
Mellon really isnt all that good, 
but we wont believe that, will 
we?
Stew Levine is a masters 
student in GSIA. He wants to 
know if CMU will do better in 
Playboys next party school 
rankings.
Cambodian killing fields soon to be a reality
Parking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment  Student Senate 
Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Constructioi 
Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dininj 
Serviw^JSnvironment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weathei 
Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  
Ad^liflittg * QiflaMLCrime * All 
ons  SE 
DC-10s
I i t>n i^ver
Jfcrt
Wei
Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs  Budget  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Th< 
Flag  Woody Allen  Funding # Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Traci
pinnibL na nPi Menab u EDeka t/ u 
FioMmeri1  l9 GbeMoO
crow<
Hosi
GO TO OFFICER 
TRAINING 
SCHOOL.
Put your college 
degree to work in the Air 
Force Officer Training School. 
Then, after graduating from 
Officer Training School, become a 
commissioned Air Force officer 
with great starting pay, complete 
medical and dental care, 30 days 
of vacation with pay per year and 
management opportunities. Learn 
if you qualify for higher education 
in the Air Force. Call
USAF OPPORUNITIES 
1 -800-423-USAF
A captivating 
cut. Seductive 
styling. Our staff 
of highly trained 
professionals 
know what It 
takes to create 
a look that lives 
up to our ex
pectations
237 Atwood St. 687-3500
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office 
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
 Perms
 Coloring
 Frosting SATISFACTION
 Conditioning GUARANTEED
, $3-obo7r":
On a Precision Haircut
(complete with wash & style) 
Expires 11/30/89 |L _ ^USTJHAVE COUPON \
Just when you thought the 
world was rid of homocidal mani
acs such as Hitler and Stalin, an 
old and dangerous maniac re
turns. Who am I talking about? 
Well, none other than Pol Pot, 
leader of the Khmer Rouge. With 
the recent departure of the Com
munist North Vietnamese from 
Cambodia, the threat of a return 
to the killing fields is ominous.
Pol Pot is one of the most repre
hensible individuals in the his
tory of Cambodia. After the Viet
nam war, when U.S. forces de
parted in 1975, the Khmer Rouge 
had begun what would be a mass 
slaughter of 1.2 million Cambo
dians. In 1977, CommunistNorth 
Vietnamese forces pushed the 
Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge 
out of Cambodia.
Dave Schwartz
At that time, and even to this 
day, Vietnam and China were on 
less than friendly terms. Since 
1977, when the Khmer Rouge 
were forced out of Cambodia, the 
Communist North Vietnamese 
have maintained a formidable and 
dictatorial presence in Cambodia. 
That is, until this past summer.
With the North Vietnamese 
pullout, the Khmer Rouge lie in 
waiting, ready once again to strike 
and till the killing fields. As Mona 
Charen said, ... events are slid
ing inexorably down to disaster.
A conference was held in Paris 
this past September to somehow 
settle the political instability.
Unfortunately, the conference 
ended in failure. The U.S. hoped 
that Prince Norodom Sihanouk 
would claim his rightful position 
as Cambodian leader without 
recognizing the Khmer.
However, Sihanouks decision 
to include the Khmer Rouge in a 
coalition government weakened 
U.S. support. I see this mistake 
on the part of the Sihanouk as 
deadly. If the Khmer Rouge is 
included in the coalition govern
ment, Sihanouk will become a 
puppet to Pol Pot who would then 
gain control.
It should be understood that 
the Khmer Rouge is not a small, 
trifling organization with no 
power. With strong Chinese sup
port, the Khmer Rouge have be
come very strong. And yes, the
support is coming from the same 
Communist Chinese responsible 
for the massacre in Beijing. Thus, 
the possibility of further blood
shed is not far off. The Cambo
dian situation should be looked 
at very carefully.
Using Lebanon as a paradigm, 
a settlement in Cambodia should 
be accomplished as soon as pos
sible, and neither the Chinese, 
the North Vietnamese, nor the 
Khmer Rouge should be included. 
They have no say in this matter. 
It is only logical that the citizens 
of Cambodia determine who they 
want as their governing body and 
hopefully prevent another kill
ing fields.
Dave Schwartz is a freshman 
IM major.
Pittsburgh is not well prepared for its weather
Splish, splash, I was taking a 
bath,
Going for a walk on Pittsburgh 
streets;
Ooh, yeah, there was a bad af
termath 
Walking home with soaking wet 
feet...
Does the tune sound catchy? 
Maybe we should all sing it, since 
it is the one thing everyone in 
Pittsburgh has in common: We all 
get wet from the crazy weather 
around this southwestern part of 
Pennsylvania.
Uh, wait... let me rephrase that. 
You get wet I always get soaked. 
No matter how extremely careful 
I am, as far as being dressed for 
the weather goes, or even if I carry 
an umbrella with me on warm, 
sunny days, I still manage to make 
it into a dry, sheltered place 
looking like a drownedrat straight 
from the gutters of New York. 
And if you havent seen one of 
those, let me assure you that they 
are not a pretty sight.
Sure, it rains in the town I come 
from, sometimes for days on end, 
but it was never quite like this
Sevrral
COLLEGE
oi MUSIC
150 Went 85tli Streel 
New York, N.Y. 10024 
212-580-0210 
800-292-3040
Egi Bkbo9L
back home. At home, the rain is 
much nicer than it is here. Pitts
burgh undoubtedly gets a lot more 
rain than the little town I come 
from in northeastern Pennsylva
nia, as well as just about the rest 
of the United States and many 
other countries, but one thing is 
certain  my little town has 
gutters. The gutters are so abun
dant at home  about every five 
houses you walk by, on almost 
every street. To my knowledge, 
Pittsburgh (or at least the parts I 
have seen) has never heard of 
gutters. Amazing, isnt it? And 
even with gutters, my little town 
was almost completely submerged 
by the fearful waters of a major 
flood back in 1972. To date, some 
parts of the town are still in the 
process of renovation. Imagine 
what would happen if Pittsburgh 
were to go through the same exact 
thing! I shudder just thinking 
about it.
On Forbes Avenue near the
Cathedral of Learning (as well as 
the rest of Iron City) the sidewalk 
is so low that a car has relatively 
little difficulty getting onto it from 
street level. And in case you 
havent yet noticed, the rain in 
Pittsburgh can make puddles in 
the street as high as the sidewalk. 
This means, of course, that you 
will eventually be walking 
through a what-seems-to-beshallow-but-really-isnt pool of 
some grey sort of semi-aqueous 
substance. What this mysterious 
substance does to your shoes is 
unbelievable. And what it does to 
your clothes when cars drive down 
the street and splash it all over 
you isnt very nice, either. I am 
speaking from experience.
When I was younger, I used to 
like the rain a lot, especially in 
the summer when it was warm 
and smelled good. We surely have 
had some absolutely beautiful, 
warm Indian summer days quite 
recently  who can complain? 
But it just wasnt the same even 
when it rained on one of those 
days. In the summer, the rain in 
Pittsburgh comes down so 
suddenly that most people are
not prepared for it. And then the 
rains are gone just as fast as they 
have come. There is not even 
enough time to enjoy the sight of 
the rain from a dry indoors.
Of course, some people might 
appreciate the fact that the 
summer rains dont last very long 
here. But then how are we going 
to be able to enjoy nature if it is 
not with us long enough?
I wonder if these may be a few of 
the undersized reasons why 
Pittsburgh is no longer the most 
livable city. Maybe the people who 
did the judging got caught in the 
inescapable rain, and deemed it 
to be one of Iron Citys lesser 
qualities. Who knows? Perhaps 
Pittsburgh can once again be the 
most livable city, if we do 
something about it. So come on, 
Pittsburgh, keep me sane  build 
a gutter or two to hold all the rain.
Besides, Id rather drown in my 
bathtub than in the street.
Sue Abrams is a freshman pro
fessional writing major. She is 
currently seeking various new 
ways to help keep Pittsburgh more 
livable.
MANNES.
Artistry & Community
MB At Mannes they go together. The skills, understanding and originality 
of artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive 
community. l^H Thats why Mannes graduates succeed.
1990 AUDITIONS
NEW YORK CITY: January 8. 1990; March 7. 8, 9, 10. 1990; May 23, 24, 25, 1990; August dates 
to be announced. LOS ANGELES, CA.: January 29,30,1990 at The Music Center of Los Angeles County. 
DALLAS-FT. WORTH, TEXAS: January 31, 1990 at Texas Women's University, Denton, Texas. 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: February 1, 2, 1990 at Classical Symphony Hall, Fine Arts Building.
Call 800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210 for application, audition appointment and additional information about the College.
The Gallmlr String QuartetFelix Gaiimir. Violin Hiroko Yajima. V'iofin Steven Tenenbom. Wola Timothy Eddy. Violoncello 
The Mannei Trio Hiroko Yajima. Violin Melissa Meell. Violoncello Diane Walih. Piano 
The Newman-Oltman Guitar Duo Michael Newman Laura Oltman 
PIANO Edward Aldwell Arkady Aronov David Bar-lllan Claude Frank Richard Goode Jeannette Haien Grant Johannesen Lilian Kallir Leon Pommers Marie Powers Joiei Raieff Peter Serkin Nina Svetlanova Diane Walih 
ORGAN and CHURCH MUSIC Ford Lallerstedt McNeil Robinson William Whitehead 
TIMPANI and PERCUSSION Norm Freeman Norman Grossman Howard Van Hyning Walter Rosenberger 
HARPGloria Agoitini Lucile Lawrence
STRINGEDINSTRUMENTSNina Beilina. Violin Isidore Cohen, Violin Alexander Cores, Violin Felix Galimir, Violin Shirley Givens, Violin Lewis Kaplan. Violin Ani Kavafian. Violin David Nadien. Violin Aaron Rosand. Violin Dora Schwaraberg. Violin Sally Thomas. Violin Hiroko Yajima. Violin Sol Greititr, Viola Karen Riucher. Violo Timothy Eddy. Violoncello Melissa Meell. Violoncello Paul Tobias. Violoncello Peter W.ley, Violoncello Julius Levine. Double Ron Homer Mensch. Double Ban
WOODWIND and BRASSJudith Mendenhall. Flule Thomas Nyfenger, Flute Laura Ahlbeck. Oboe Elaine Douvas. Oboe John FerriUo. Oboe Mark Hill. Oboe Gervase de Peyer. Clannet Peter Simenauer. Clarinet David Carroll. Bassoon Harold Goltzer. Bassoon Leonard Hindell, Bauoon Judith LeClair. Bauoon Allen Won, Saxophone Ranier Delntinis. French Horn David Jolley, French Horn Philip Myers, French Horn Mel Broiles. Trumpet Vincent Penzarella, Trumpet James Smith. Trumpet Joe Alesn, Trombone Per Brevig, Trombone Donald Harwood, Boss Trombone Stephen Johns. Tuba
CLASSICAL GUITAREliot Fisk Frederic Hand Herbert Levine Michael Newman David Starobin 
VOICE Richard Barrett Charles Bressler Thomas Cultice Peter Elkus Antonia Lavanne Dan Marek Marian Thompson Theodor Uppman 
SONGINTERPRETATIONAntonia Lavanne DICTIONNico Castel. French.German, and Itolian Kathryn LaBouff. English 
OPERAPaul Echols, Chairman Christopher Alden Joan Domemann Richard Getke Benton Hess Valery Ryvkin 
MOVEMENT FOR SINGERS Nma David
CONTEMPORARYENSEMBLEMadeleine Shapiro, Director
COMPOSITIONRobert Cuckson Charles Jones David Loeb David Tcimpidis Frederick We rie
CONDUCTINGMichael Charry, Orchestral Amy Kaiser. Chorol
TECHNIQUES OF MUSICElizabeth Aaron Edward Aldwell Poundie Bursteln Terry Champlin Robert Cuckson
Steven Freides David Gagne Charles Jones Ford Lallerstedt Larry Laskowski David Loeb Mei-Mei Meng William Needelman Frank Nemhauser Marie Powers Carl Schachter David Stern
HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE ENSEMBLESThe Mannes Baroque Chamber Players.Nancy Wilson. Director The Mannes Camerata,Paul Echols, Director The Mannes Renaissance Band.Benjamin Peck. Director 
HISTORY and LITERATURE OF MUSIC Frederic Fehleisen. M A .Hiitory of Music Deborah Davis, M A.. M.S .Graduate Studies L. Michael Grifftl, Ph.D, Graduate Studies. Literature of Music Charles Kaufman. Ph.D.- History of Music Kenneth Stern. Ph D..Studies in Opera History
PROGRAMS OF STUDY Bachelor of Music, 
Bachelor of Science. Master of Music, Diploma and Po.stGraduote Diploma. Professional Studies Certificate. 
MAJOR STUDIES All orchestral instruments, piano, 
harpsichord, organ, voice and opera, guitar, composition, 
theory and conducting.
DORMITORY ROOMS.
SCHOLARSHIPS AWARDED/ALL MAJORS. 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Write or call Ms. Marilyn Groves, Director of 
Admissions. The Mannes College of Music.
150 West 85th Street. New York. N.Y. 10024. 
800-292-3040 or 212-580-0210.
A division of the Nctc School for Social Research
i

---------------------------------------------------

S,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Career Office has more than Big Business
Editor:
though I was pleased that 
ThEl Tartan had done a career 
focus for the October 24 issue of 
the'Karnege, I was disappointed 
about the coverage in two areas. 
l) i was not mentioned that our 
office can assist students with 
choosing majors, and 2) private 
sector employment was empha
sized over public and nonprofit 
em'ployment. I feel it is particu
larly important to bring this to 
light to further dismantle the 
stereotype that our office primar
ily serves job seekers interested 
in big business.
Asassociate director of career 
development, I am primarily help 
students in making decisions 
about careers and majors, as well 
as minors and electives. Our of
fice serves as an important compinnibL na nPi Menab
ment to exploring academic 
choices through coursework and 
academic advising. Our interest 
and ability inventories link infor
mation directly to general aca
demic choices. The Career Re
source Library contains relevant 
books, such as What Can I Do 
With a Major In...?, and Career 
Choices for Students of History. 
Many career books like the Oc
cupational Outlook Handbook 
have training sections that give 
advice aboutmajors and electives. 
Although our office steers clear of 
coursework advising, and rou
tinely refers students back to 
advisors and faculty for deeper 
information, it is important for
students to know that they have 
another place to come when 
making academic choices or ex
amining second thoughts.
In reference to mysecondpoint, 
I believe students should be en
couraged to evaluate a broad 
range of options, including the 
public sector, which, in addition 
to government, could include 
research centers, professional 
associations, and lobbyinggroups. 
Another less visible option is the 
nonprofit sector such as cultural, 
health care, and educational or
ganizations. The Kamege rein
forced the big businesis stere
otype through the multiple Mega 
Corp illustrations and using 
business rather than organi
zation. Our office already has a 
difficult time breaking this stere
otype, since so many formal business suits are seen in conjunction 
with our very visible campus in
terviewing program, whichis just 
a portion of our services. I am par
ticularly interested in challeng
ing this stereotype since I am 
chairing the Toward Tomorrows 
World Career Fair co-sponsored 
by our office, Student Pugwash, 
and the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs. This March 21 
event will primarily feature these 
often overlooked organizations in 
the nonprofit and public sectors.
Thank you again for your cover
age in the Karnege and also for 
allowing me to now mention these 
less visible services and issues.
Sincerely,
Karen A. Litzinger 
Associate Director of Career 
Development
Defeat of liberal paper lion is a hollow victory
Editor:
I-was appalled (and a bit 
amused) at the self-righteous 
polemic that Dave Schwartz 
dumped on your readers in the 
October 31 issue [Liberal mind
set is absurd]. Mr. Schwartzs 
rhetoric is strangely reminiscent 
of McCarthyism (with a healthy 
dose of visible tolerance added to 
demonstrate his commitment to 
freedom of expression). Ive never 
seen such a collection of emotion
ally loaded verbage: subversive, 
radical, pervasive, hypocrisy 
an^lies. With a little work, Mr. 
ScJjwartz could become an expert 
at* appealing to our lowest natuWs.
I must admit, however, that I 
havent yet developed the hardheaded realism that Mr. Schwartz 
seems to value so much. Please 
forgive me, but I am naive enough 
to believe that rational arguement 
is superiorto shameless emotional 
diatribe. In consequence, I would 
like to know why Mr. Schwartz is
convinced that the concepts and 
ideology of the left wing have 
major flaws. I would like to give 
leftists a chance to state their 
best case, before concluding that 
a total blockage of logic and rea
son with contradictions, hypoc
risy, and lies is the cornerstone of 
their thought processes. Mr. 
Schwartzs brief review of the lit
erature of a single left wing or
ganization does not do justice to 
the breadth and depth of leftist 
thought. I dont know what or
ganization Mr. Schwartz was re
ferring to, but I am prepared to 
concede (for the sake of argument) 
that it was little more than a 
propaganda machine. The exis
tence of a single organization of 
this caliber does not, however, 
justify Mr. Schwartzs broad 
generalizations of the left wing. I 
couldridicule the entire right wing 
just as easily by generalizing from 
the views of Lyndon LaRouche. 
Mr. Schwartz has indeed devesnent was a paper lion. I doubt he 
could dismiss serious leftist think
ers with such ease.
As for the CIA, Mr. Schwartz 
has misrepresented the com
plaints of the demonstrators en
tirely. They were not protesting 
the existence, of an intelligence 
organization as such, but rather 
the morally questionable activi
ties of the CIAactivities which 
often have nothing to do with 
intelligence. Perhaps we do need 
an intelligence agency. Do we also 
need an organization that orches
trates assassination and coup 
attempts, an organization that 
regularly violates the right to selfdetermination?
Finally, I must address the is
sue of logical consistency which 
Mr. Schwartz so vehemently ac
cuses the left of lacking. Why do 
leftists not protest the oppression 
of people around the world, he 
asks, particularly when such 
oppression is instigated by com
munist governments? After all,
their actions are as morally rep
rehensible as those of the CIA, 
and often worse. While I agree 
the United States is not the only 
offender of international justice 
and human rights, the important 
issue is that, as citizens of the 
United States, we are responsible 
for our nations transgressions. 
Apart from the fact that Ameri
can demonstrations are likely to 
have little effect on the actions of 
other nations, Americans do not 
have a particular moral responsi
bility for those actions. We do, 
however, hsive a serious moral 
obligation to carefully monitor the 
actions of our own governments 
organs of foreign policy.
Mr. Schwartz needs to take a 
closer look at the arguments of 
the more reputable segments of 
the political left. He might find an 
opponent who is not guilty of 
hypocrisy and lies.
Brian Gill
Senior, Philosophy/Historytated his opponent, but his oppo-Time for a sign of life from the White House - any sign
----------------- ingfromscrewingoveryourbuddy..................
for a quick buck.
Now that this whole Reagan 
Revolution joke seems to be los
ing steam, I wonder how long we 
will have to wait for the Bush 
thing to emerge. Will it be a cau
tious, bet-hedgingapproachtothe 
future, indicative of a power struc
ture content to sit back and let 
things go to hell, or will it be a 
Reagan thing  a huge media 
blitz, wherein we sweet talk 
America by telling it things we 
want to hear? Give big promises, 
filled with lots of easy solutions 
ya lfnow, things that wont make 
people actually have to think', 
make it seem that if they keep 
doig what theyre doing, things
Far AeCDinn
will get better without having to 
work at it, and we wont have to 
get off our lazy asses and actually 
sweat it out.
It seems that govemmentneeds 
to be reintroduced to the idea 
that government is by the people 
and for the people. It is not a selfserving ticket ride to power and 
influence, but an office, a privi
lege, that has certain duties and 
considerations with it. Chief 
among these might be things like 
honesty, integrity, and refrainBut lets give George some 
credit. By assiduously working 
around major crises and ducking 
any problem flung towards him, 
he has managed to gamer the 
highest approval rating of any 
president for whom a rating was 
taken. I bet youd love your nosy 
in-laws, if theyd just stay out of 
the way and be quiet.
It is a managment technique 
perfected by Sam Pierce. If you 
wanted to be wise, it might be 
called the What, me worry? 
management technique. As long 
as the president can look like
AlfredE. Neuman, thennothings 
wrong.
There is one slight problem. You 
cannot effectively lead a country 
by avoiding problems. It is a fact 
of the world that somewhere, 
somehow, someone will screw up, 
and the problem will have to be 
faced.
George, why not be original, 
and do the one thing that, to my 
knowledge, no one has ever done 
before? Be the first president to 
live up to his campaign promises. 
Thats history right there.
Don Pickett is a freshman in 
H&SS.
h;B lbiLirCi LPagmM ki 
alir na lgkmeC Mikoni
Editor:
A modest proposal for demo
cratic process for CMU:
Im quite pleased at the 
lively interchange of ideas in 
last weeks Tartan. Im glad 
that Educational Action on 
Latin America (EALA), of 
which I am proud to be a 
member, sparked this latest 
outburst of pondering the 
individuals moral role in a 
complex society. Its a longoverdue event at CMU. Id like 
to respond to a letter in last 
weeks Tartan entitled, CIA 
no worse than other agencies.
The gist of Susan Gambles 
piece was that moral deci
sions such as whether or not 
the CIA should recruit on 
campus are best left to the 
informed decision of the indi
vidual. As she states, The 
point is to let each person 
decide which companies they 
would or would not be able to 
work for and support in good 
conscience. MuchofEALAs 
intent in organizing the dem
onstration was to get people 
thinking about the issue. 
However, it is not enough that 
decent, moral people refuse to 
take part in questionable ac
tions. They also have to at
tempt to prevent the perpetu
ation of wrongdoing by oth
ers.
The covert operations of the 
CIA are a matter of public rec
ord. Four decades of direct
ing, training, and funding 
state-sponsored terrorism, 
generally directed against the 
poor, trade unionists, or le
gitimate political dissenters 
has made the CIA a synonym 
for torture, repression, and 
fascism throughout the world.
To respond that the Rus
sian KGB has a similar repu
tation is to miss the point en
tirely. I dont think Ameri
cans should pride themselves 
onhavingthe democratic prin
ciples of Stalinist goons.
The point is that the CIA 
operates in our name, with 
our money, and supposedly in 
ourinterest. Im confidentthat 
in a free and frank evaluation 
of the CIAs success either in 
furthering democracy or  to 
be blunt  protecting our 
standard of living, mostwould 
agree the CIA is a failed, cor
rupt institution, with no place 
in American society.
In short, I take issue with 
the authors view that such 
moral decisions are strictly
private ones. Morality is a 
purely private affair in a police 
state where public discourse is 
impossible. In an open society, 
morality is a mix of public and 
private decision-making. Of 
course, the rights of the indi
vidual  just as the rights of 
the minority  should be pro
tected in our society.
However, the actions of an 
institution, formed in the pub
lic interest, as any governmen
tal agency or private corpora
tion is, should be subject to 
public scrutiny and public con
trol.
However, I want to give credit 
where credit is due. Ms. 
Gambles argued that the re
cruitment policies of any and 
all suspect agencies or corpora
tions should be open to public 
debate, now while this point 
was apparently made ironi
cally, it is an excellent one.
I propose a challenge in de
mocracy to the CMU commu
nity: Namely, that any re
cruiter who wishes to make use 
of CMU space to conduct its 
business should be.subject to a 
public debate with a non-binding decision of the majority of 
the audience.
In other words, if petitioners 
can get enough support, say 
10% of the campus community, 
then the recruiter, in order to 
carry out its business, must first 
be willing to publicaly discuss 
the policies of the company. 
Regardless of the outcome, it 
can recruit. Incidentally, this 
is the policy at Amherst Col
lege.
Whats the point, you ask, of 
this exercise in public, non
binding debate? The point is 
the value in the democratic 
process and the exchange of 
differing viewpoints. I dont 
think the CIA is comfortable 
with it.
If they are, let them come, let 
them discuss, and then let them 
recruit. If they dont have a 
stomach for free and open de
bate, they have no business on 
this campus. If they do, so 
much the better.
By the way, petitions are 
being circulated throughout 
campus to implement this 
modest proposal. Theres a 
contact person in your depart
ment. Think aboutit, talk about 
it, then act.
John Hinshaw,
Graduate Student 
Social History
mWE'RE MUCH MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
; AbeIoni Voem aW 0irnomRRRys Pagb oCCiLL 
; :ffeCi EgllmeiL 
; AoCDerU orM EPellerU 
; gLeriLL hobML
z JAEq 9ibOq FTpq :IireUPn pinnibL
z APanaCaleiL
z AoLLlabn APanaLq inCRRR
z GB5 EibIeCi
Postal and Business Services
MAIL :5E ETC. USA
414 30^^3^'' 
(412) 687-6100
Double Shots
of
[SCOT cm
IHPP^l
An evening of two one-acts
Every Woman's Right
by Beth CroniseBoxed In
by Nancy Gleason
Friday  November 10th  8:00 pm & 9:30 pm  SKIBO Wherrett Room 
Admission is FREE  Funded by your activities fee
HELPA TCRITICALTIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center. .......................268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach 
the Counselor on call.
Walk-in Tutoring.......................................................................................... 268-2922
Calculus, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Writing, Computing 
Sunday - Thursday 8:00 - 11:00 pm (see Tartan Ad)
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................................... 782-4023
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Student Health Service..............................................................................268-2157
Hours: Mon, Tue, Thu, Fri 8:30 am-5:00 pm 
Wed~9:30 am-6:30 pm 
For after hours emergencies, call Campus Police (x2323) for 
transport to hospital.
BACCHUS....................................................................................................... 268-7071
Student organization which promotes substance abuse prevention.
Meetings are held on Mondays, 5:30-7:30 pm
Room 121, Margaret Morrison, and are open to all students
Drug Connection............................................................................................ 854-0700
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline, 5:00-9:00 pm
Counseling and Student Development Center, a Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Josh RubensSportspeakTartans tie W&J for top spot in the PAO
Thank God for ESPN 
in the Iron City
Basketball season started 
everywhere this weekend, 
except for Pittsburgh. As a 
result, were stuck with our 
mediocre local teams.
The Tartans are winding 
down their regular season.
With their win over W&J, they 
tie for the top spot in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference.
The Panthers were off last 
week but take on Miami this 
Saturday in what should be 
Pitts toughest game of the 
season.
The Penguins are failing to 
fulfill pre-season hopes left and 
right. What was touted as the 
hottest team in hockey has 
proved to be a chilly squad at 
best.
The Steelers, uh, well, they 
still have the best uniforms in 
the NFL.
But there is hope on the 
horizon. Yes, by God, college 
basketball season is upon us.
The CMU basketball teams 
are gearing up for action. Pitt 
will open up play in the Big 
East soon, which will quench 
most of the citys thirst for 
hoops. Alas, there is no NBA 
team here, still.
But what about the NBA? 
Even if you have been watching 
the news and reading the 
papers in this city, you may be 
surprised to know that the 
professional basketball season 
has started already.
The night before a Steelers 
game, you can forget the local 
TV sportscasters even recogniz
ing anything else happening in 
sports outside Pittsburgh. The 
same holds true for the papers. 
The Pittsburgh Press buried the 
story about the NBA season 
openers on the very last page of 
the sports section.
The fact that Pittsburgh does 
not have a professional team 
does not mean that there are no 
fans who care about what is 
happening in the NBA.
This season had a lot of ques
tions to answer  questions 
that fans all over the country 
had been asking. The most 
pressing question of all: Will 
Larry Bird play well in 89-90 
after missing almost all of last 
season? Even if you are not a 
Boston Celtics fan, any basket
ball fan would take an interest 
in one of the greatest players in 
the league.
Well, rest easy, sports fans. 
Bird had 32 points in the 
season opener last week and led 
the Celtics to a 127114 victory 
over the Milwaukee Bucks.
Another big question con
cerned the Los Angeles Lakers: 
How would the Lakers play in 
their first season opener 
without superstar center since 
1975 Kareem Abdul-Jabbar? 
Abdul-Jabbar, who retired last 
season, was not only a scoring 
leader for the Lakers, but a 
type of team patriarch. His re
placement, Mychal Thompson, 
had 18 points and four re
bounds. The Lakers beat the 
Dallas Mavericks 102-94.
Once college basketball heats 
up sportscasters and papers are 
sure to give the entire sport 
more coverage. Until then, keep 
scouring those sports pages. If 
youre lucky enough to have 
cable, tune in to ESPN relig
iously.
Josh Ruben is a senior 
professional writing major in 
the college of Humanities and 
Social Sciences.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Managing Editor
Carnegie Mellon upset the 
undefeated Washington and Jef
ferson College Saturday, tying the 
W&J Presidents for the confer
ence title. The game was the 
Tartans last in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference.
The loss was W&Js first since 
the team was defeated in 1985 by 
a CMU team bound for the NCAA 
playoffs.
The Presidents had been 
ranked number one in the South 
region, but could fall as low as 
fifth in this weeks rankings. The 
top four teams in each Division 
III region make the playoffs.
[Were] co-champs, but in my 
mind were champs. We beat them 
head to head, said Tartan Head 
Coach Rich Lackner.
Carnegie Mellon was able to do 
two things to the Presidents that 
no one had done to them this 
season. The Tartans successfully 
ran the football and shut down 
the W&J scoring machine.
Washington and Jefferson had 
given up 297 rushing yards total 
in its first seven games; CMU ran 
for 256. The Presidents have been 
averaging 36 points per game, 
but managed only seven against 
the Tartans.
That was the most fired up we 
were all season, said Freshman 
linebacker Matthew Pieler, who 
was credited with two sacks and 
oneinterception.
The defense played its most 
inspired football of the season, 
forcing six turnovers, three 
fumbles, and three interceptions, 
allowing the Presidents to hold 
the ball for less than 21 minutes 
in the game.
lPana kO For .egbCo
Junior Dean Garofola carries the ball through W&Js defense in Saturdays game. The Tartans beat the 
Presidents 17-7 to tie for the number one spot in the PAC.
The offense also had its share 
of heroes. Junior halfback Scott 
Bamyak moved into fourth place 
on the all-time Tartan rushing 
ranks with a 78-yard effort as 
well as one touchdown.
Bamyak needs only 29 yards 
in the season finale against Case 
Western Reserve to break the 
schools single-season rushing 
record. Junior fullback Fran Bellante added 88 yards and an
other touchdown.
The first indication that an 
upset was in the making came 
during W&Js first drive. On 
fourth and three from the CMU 
37, Senior Chris Balouris knocked 
down a John Ivory pass to end the 
drive. Ivory was harassed in the 
pocket all game, was sacked five 
times, and had several passes 
batted away.
The Tartans took over at the 37
and used eight plays to bring the 
ball down to the three. Bellante 
then took the ball around the right 
side of the line for the touchdown.
Carnegie Mellon had chances 
to add to its lead in the first half. 
On their next drive, the Tartans 
drove down to the 25, but Junior 
kicker Joe Schwerhas field goal 
fell short.
On the next play, Junior cornerback John Riesmayer picked
off an Ivory pass. The Tartans 
were unable to move the ball af
terwards, and another Schwerha 
kick, this one from 42 yards out, 
also fell short.
The third time in the half was 
the charm. A 33-yard pass from 
Junior quarterback Billy Snyder 
to Bamyak brought the ball down 
to the five with one minute left in 
the half. After bringing the hall to 
the one with three seconds re
maining, Schwerha hit a 19-yard 
field goal to give the Tartans a 
10-0 lead.
We felt that we had to go out at 
halftime on an upbeat note/^aid 
Lackner.
The Presidents roared back in 
the second half. They used, only 
five plays and 95 seconds to score 
a touchdown and close within 
three. However, they would get 
no closer. -~
Carnegie Mellon added an in
surance touchdown in the fourth 
quarter. Bamyak carried thaball 
from the 24 for the score with 
under nine minutes remaining.
Washington and Jefferson lost 
its last two chances to win when it 
turned the ball over on each of its 
last two drives.
Next week: The Tartans finish 
out the season against University 
Athletic Association rival..Qase 
Western Reserve University. The 
Spartans defeated the Tartans in 
Cleveland last year, 33-22.
This will mark Carnegie 
Mellons final off-campus home 
game at Mt. Lebanon. The Tar
tans are expected to return to 
campus next season, opening;,the 
East Campus Stadium against 
the University of Chicago.
Next weeks game time is at 2 
pm. The game will be broadcast 
on WRCT-FM (88.3).ammiOkomm CmaLiL LioLar -enP maLLiL na .baIi henOq xoOriLkgbU
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Staffwriter
The last two matches of the sea
son were a disappointment for the 
womens volleyball team. Carne
gie Mellon lost to Grove City 115, 
115 and to Waynesburg 715, 
14-16.
I dont know what happened, 
said head coach Sue Flaherty 
about the Grove City match, We 
looked really nervous.
Nicole Hanak, the teams best 
hitter, injured her shoulder. 
Hanak still played but not at her 
usual level. With that loss, Carne
gie Mellon ended the season tied 
for second in the Presidents Ath
letic Conference with Bethany.
During the first game of the 
Wayneburg match, said Flaherty,Lacrosse pounds Pitt in exhibition game, 10-4
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The CMU lacrosse club took an 
important step toward the 1990 
spring season by beating the 
University of Pittsburgh, 10-4. The 
Saturday exhibition match served 
not only as a test for a new coaching 
staff, but also as a warning to future 
opponents that the team will be 
competitive in the upcoming 
season.
The start of the game was not 
encouraging as Pitt scored within 
the first half-minute of play, but 
that would prove to be the high 
point of the game for the Panthers. 
Over the course of the next two 
periods, the Tartans struck for 
seven unanswered goals, including 
a game-high three by junior Rob 
Kendall. The rest of the game 
proved to be an exercise in clockkilling as the Tartans held on for 
the 10-4 win.
The Tartans strong performance 
was an exceptionally good sign 
considering the fact that the team 
is in a state of transition. The
Mistakes we made were mistakes 
a young team makes. 
Coach Sue Flaherty
ByERVis (togs
I5l
[Wei kind of regrouped. We 
started playing really well but it 
was late in the game and hard to 
catch up. The Tartans began 
strong in the second game against 
the resepected Waynesburg team 
but lost by two points.
Looking at the season as a 
whole, Flaherty believes the The 
mistakes we made were mistakes 
a young team makes. Seven of 
the ten players this year were 
first year players. Also, the aca
demic schedule at CMU makes it
hard for players to stay on the 
team, which is why there were 
many new players this year.
The team played a lot better 
than I expected at times, Flaherty 
admitted.
We just struggled. We could 
win rallies but we couldnt win 
games.
Carnegie Mellon was able to 
score many points against some 
good teams but just could not beat 
them, resulting in many close 
matches by the end of the season.
4iBF TobIiO PoL keU CPorUiL 
er Lnabi fab onPmineC Milobn9irn
lPana kO EnilPir worU
Junior Phil Kaplan attacks from behind 
the goal in Saturdays game against the 
Panthers.
Tartans have to contend not only with 
a new group of freshmen players, but 
also with coaches that havebeen with 
the team for only a few weeks.
With winter on the way, the lacrosse 
club will not play any more games 
until next spring. However, when the 
new season begins, its schedule will 
include games against Duquesne and 
Pitt, as well as possible games against 
West Virginia and New York 
University.
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon isnt exactly elaborate 
when it comes to sports.
Take John Harveys office, for example. It 
isnt plush, the chairs are a little worn, and 
the view of the GSIA building from the office 
window is hardly breathtaking.
But Harvey, Carnegie Mellons athletic 
director, doesnt mind his surroundings. He 
is comfortable enopugh to relax in his modest 
office in his plaid, flannel shirt.
In his eighth month as athletic director, 
Harvey is still forming ideas about what he 
wants to do with the department. 
Haphazardly pinned-up lists on his office 
bulletin board display some of his ideas, but 
those just scratch the surface. Since his 
arrival, Harvey has accumulated a repertoire 
of ideas that wouldnt begin to fit on his 
bulletin board.
Much of Harveys inspiration for change 
has come from his experience in high school 
and college athletics. Harvey has coached , 
and served as an administrator and faculty 
member of different athletic departments.
Harvey says his main goal at CMU is to 
gain a balanced perspective [and to] consider 
all of the elements that constitute the 
athletic department. Its easy to get wrapped 
up in varsity sports, with its publicity, he 
says, but you have to keep your eyes on the
P;;P
  : I
mk W
&L . $
.
.
lPana kO .gO AoXginni 
CMUs Athletic Director, Dr. John Harvey.
whole forest.
Harvey also wants to concentrate on what he 
considers the unattended areas. Right now, theres 
not enough attention to free individual recreation 
and opportunities for personal fitness, he says. 
Harvey agrees that varsity sports are a vital 
element of the department, but thinks that other 
areas too often take the back burner.
We have to expand the general services, said 
Harvey. This entails extending pool and equip
ment room hours, putting directories in the gym
nasium, and cleaning up the gym.
Harvey would like to see more people involved in 
the departments services, as well as better comccntinued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

d/,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
a.i.d.s. in the college community
from crisis to management
t'XIIXIlXKKXXlXlIXIl.IKIXKXXKKIIXIXIIIIIX.IXIXX'XXXK XIXIIIIII1KXXI1I1IX1)
a live-interactive conference
thursday, november 16 
the wherrett room, skibo 
1:00-4:00 pm
pre-registration: 
please make 
reservations by 
friday, november 10 
call student affairs:
\2074 mon-tri
a:i.d.s. and the carnegie melln community
co-sponsored by: 
student affairs 
the housing office 
s.d.c./a.b.
a follow up discussion ' 1*- ----- 
monday, november 20, DH 1212: 4:30-6:30 pm (dinner will be served)
Rugby splits two games against Allegheny Gators
By THOMAS ANFUSO
Special to The Tartan
Blustery winds and tempera
ture of 35 degrees didnt stop 
CMUs Eggmen from making a 
stand at Allegheny College 
Saturday afternoon. The rugby 
team split a contest against 
the Allegheny College Gators.
Carnegie Mellons A team lost 
a defensive battle by a single 
first-half try, 6-0, while an 
angry B team avenged the loss 
with a 14-0 rout of the Gators. 
The match was marked by 
strong defensive play; both 
teams scrums, roughly com
parable to football linemen, 
battled to stop short runs and 
get the ball to the backfield.
In the A game, scrummies 
Richard Popper and Bucky 
Croushore provided momen
tum to the CMU attack with 
pivotal tackles and handy pass
ing.
GSIAs Paul Schneider re
peatedly defeated the oppos
ing hooker, deftly footing the
ball back towards CMUs of
fensive backfield. In the sec
ond half, CMUs scrum had 
three consecutive tries, each of 
which would have tied the 
game, called back because of 
penalties. Matt Benedict, an 
H&SS freshman, drove the ball | 
again and again into scoring ' 
territory only to ha ve his gains 
reduced by repeated clumsy 
CMU penalties.
Although CMUs Eggmen 
repeatedly drove Alleghenys 
scrum far off the ball, the : 
quicker Gators outran a slower 
CMU team, making crucial 
tackles and breaking up CMUs 
offensive attack.
A fast Gator A team club 
again and again put an end to 
CMUs offensive forays into 
Allegheny territory with excel
lent gang-tackling. Seniors 
Dominic Ianno and Pete 
Wolcott repeatedly connected 
on deft passes and speedy S 
running plays deep into Gator 
defensive zones, only to meet 
continued on page 11
The Ivy League Spring 
in New York
Qualified upperdassmen are invited to apply for admission to 
Columbia College as visiting students beginning in January 
1990. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper divi
sion courses. For further information and an application, write 
or call:
Columbia College Admissions Office212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 854-2522 
Application deadline: December 15, 1989
RSVP WITH REICH/FRANK
We rent and sell ruxedos from 
Pittsburgh's largest selection of formol 
wear. Includes the complete formal 
outfit - the right tuxedo, for the right 
occasion, for the right price.
Enhance your distinctive formal 
look with the meticulous fit and atten
tion to detail assured by our Formal 
Wear Consultants, Raymond Petronio, 
Stephen Margolis and Ed Peresman.
REICH/FRANK
Forbes-Shady Plaza, Squirrel Hill, 421-9600Tuesday and Thursday Until 9 p.m.Plenty of Free Parking Right in Front
SHORTTERM LEASES
ELEGANT FURNISHED STUDIO
1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES
B Gx E,AE G0:V ,T GBET;:4Bp ET:AE B4F 0E,BJ0B4,E :4 
xBp4J, E,0,R
ET:0,H,0V pBE G0:V !vv(( A0 FB) 2V:4,Tp)3R
FB;p) B4F xwp) 0B,E BB;pBpR
;4hpJFE G0 p:hBp AT:4q hBp ,RR 2y V:; hTB44pE3
Bpp p;44Eq B h:VAp,p) NJ;AAF w;,hT4q
B4F AB0w;4.R
VB;F B4F h:4h;0. E0;hE BB;pBp
m
5405 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, Pa 15232 
(412) 441-4444 
TOLL FREE 800-767-7666
,Pi Ca99ar CamM eL nPi LngMirn'L -abLn iri9O
By SHEILA SKAFF
Tartan Staffwriter
Most students, at some time in 
tftSir careers, face one or several 
ofT'the dreaded illnesses which 
accompany university life. Some 
of these are curable, but it seems 
th most prevalent are the incur
able viruses  the common cold, 
influenza, and mononucleosis.
The common cold, the most 
common of all infectious diseases, 
is* an acute viral infection that 
causes inflammation of the upper 
respiratory tract. Over 100 differ
ent viruses can cause the com
mon cold, and contrary to popular 
belief, fatigue or drafts do not 
increase susceptibility to it. Acold 
isl*transmitted by hand-to-hand
contact and through airborne 
respiratory droplets coming from 
the mouth of an infected person.
A cold is communicable, or able 
to be transferred to another per
son, for two to three days after the 
onset of symptoms.
Since there is no cure for the 
common cold, the best that can be 
done for the virus includes aspi
rin or acetaminophen to ease 
headaches, fluids to help loosen 
accumulated respiratory secre
tions and prevent dehydration, 
and rest to combat fatigue and 
illness. Decongestants can relieve 
congestion, throat lozenges relieve 
soreness, and steam encourages 
expectoration.
For combating a cold avoid the 
overuse of nose drops. These, 
along with nose sprays, may 
temporarily help congestion, but 
they may also lengthen the ef
fects of the illness. These so-called 
remedies cannot cure the cold, 
and can actually cause rebound 
congestion. As the cold is not a 
bacteria, antibiotics do nothing 
for it.
Infectious mononucleosis, or 
mono, is also an acute infectious 
disease. Mono is caused by the 
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a
member of the herpes group. Mono 
spreads by the throat, via the 
mouth, but can also be transmit
ted through blood transfusion. 
The symptoms, after an incuba
tion period of 30 to 50 days, in
clude headache and fatigue for 
the first couple days. After 3-5 
days, a sore throat, mouth and 
throat lesions, and temperature 
fluctuation occur; numerous other 
symptoms may develop.
Mono is contagious from before 
symptoms develop until the fever 
subsides and mouth and throat 
lesions disappear. Symptoms 
usually go away about six to ten 
days after the onset of the dis
ease, but may persist for weeks.
Although the symptoms men
tioned above are the first indica
tion that mono is present, further 
testing can confirm it. Leukocyte 
count in the blood doubles during 
the second and third weeks of 
illness. Heterophil antibodies in 
serum drawn during the acute 
illness and at three to four week 
intervals rise to four times the 
normal, and EBV antibodies can 
be found in an infected person. 
Liver function studies are also 
abnormal.
Therapy is essential to this
disease. Because it resists both 
prevention and antimicrobial 
treatment, the best treatment 
includes relief of symptoms, bed 
rest during the acute period, and 
aspirin or its equivalent for head
ache and sore throat. If a severe 
puffy throat causes airway ob
struction, steroids can be used to 
relieve swelling.
About 20% of mono patients also 
suffer from a type of strep throat. 
In these cases antibiotics can be 
useful.
Mono in itself doesnt require 
hospitalization, but it may take 
several weeks before an infected 
person is back to normal. Bed rest 
is essential, and long, difficult 
school projects should be put on 
hold.
The main point about these ill
nesses is that they are viruses 
and cannot be cured through 
antibiotics or cold medicine. The 
only way to really get rid of a 
virus is to let it run its course, get 
plenty of rest, and stay away from 
potential illnesses until the virus 
is completely gone.
Sheila Skaff is an H&SS 
freshman.This column is the first 
in a two part series on viruses.
SHORT AND SUITE
411 S. CRAIG ST. oai PENN AVENUE, DOWNTOWN
A1 O /flOq AAA A ROBINSON TOWN CENTRECal80-29CCCC 34or15f pr1i 3ct4n
what a buy!
FOLD-A-WAY TABLE
SIZE 31X42 WHITE - LIST $169.95
.95
7-PEN
TECHNIC'AL
PEN SET
STOP
IN
FOR
FREE
PENCIL
Hundred of other art iteme
$38.95Reg. $97.1

---------------------------------------------------

----------------
,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcScdd
IM StandingsHarvey working for facility improvements
6-Person VolleyballIntermediateKappa Sig20
MajorsDIVISION GQuantum Chaos21
Barcrawlers30KGB A20Beta D11
The Networkers20Theta Xi A20Mutant Krishnas02
Haagen-Daz Kids12KSA21WTHM03
Name Server12Iron Eyes11
Spycho12Kappa Sig B02DIVISION C
Mech. Eng.02Dudes03USS Carnegie20
Sig Tau20
MinorsDIVISION HZoo11
m'B'a'lr oMechanical B20CIA11
Trojans II20Sig Tau A20Charlie Challengers02
Pi Alpha Delta20Theta Xi B11Architorture02
KGB B11Brown Wax11
Boys from the Hill11Fringe02DIVISION D
Sig Tau B11ASA A02DTD B30
The Crumbsuckers02Phi Kappa Theta20
DTD A02DIVISION JUSS Mellon11
SAE A20Peat Moss02
m'B'a'lr sPhi Kappa Theta20Psy Clones03
Yinzers30Penthouse Hamm.10
DU20Gaudeamus12Majors Water Polo
The Jazz11SUPA the Day01Sudsuckers20
Mudge Sludge11Zoo A03SAE11
USS Mellon12The Sperm Whales11
A Phi O Lobsters02DIVISION KDTD02
KDR02Slammers30
Benwaballs20Minors Water Polo
DIVISION CSAE B11Pika20
Pasqualins Team30The Working Sets12USS Molly20
ASA B20Pika12USS Carnegie20
SDC II11Damped Harmonic02Pioneers11
Mean Values11TX11
Sig Tau C12Majors SoccerTeam Welch01
Little Feet02SAE 130Phi Kap01
CIA B02Real Mellon20AFROTC02
KSA20Zoo02
DIVISION DTheta Xi20
Trojans20Ballbusters02Intermediate Raquetball
Kap Sig Boys20Delta Upsilon A02Mech E Overgrads10
CIA A21World Cup03Kap-Sig Boys10
B-l Bombers12Theta Xi00
The Knobs01Intermediate SoccerThe Lackner Crew01
SDC-702ATO Wolfpack20SAE01
Ledges United11
DIVISION EDelta Tau Delta A20Minors Raquetball
Pioneers B20Pika20DIVISION A
Iffies21Mech. Engineering12CIA10
Hoggin11Delta Upsilon B02Sig Tau A00
Umpalumpas12Spartans03Hugo00
Army02Pi Lam00
Twr/Power 3rdMinors SoccerUSS Mellon00
Floor02DIVISION APhi Kappa Theta01
EPP30
DIVISION FPioneers10DIVISION B
Pi Lambda Phi20KDR20Sig Tau B10
Crevice21SAE 221Delta Upsilon00
Spike&TheDoherty Dynasty12The Visitors00
Ballbrkrs11Top Roor03Anti-Nazi Warlords00
WTHM02Racquetball00
USS Carnegie02DIVISION BThe Asylum00
DTD B02Pi Lambda Phi20USS Forge01
Rugby splits two against Allegheny Gators
continued from page 10
with strong opposition at the 
most crucial, try-line moments 
of scoring attack.
Senior Tom Cowlam, an A 
team backfield wing, said, We 
had so many chances to score. 
If wed capitalized on even half 
of the critical opportunities, 
we would have easily taken
the game.
In the B game, mostly a replay 
of the A game, CMU devastated 
the opposing Gator scrum, driv
ing it downfield while the back
side delivered lethal licks to Al
legheny team. Several inexperi
enced Gator backs fumbled the 
ball into CMU hands at clutch 
moments in the game.
Capitalizing on these turn
overs, backs Mike Lindenberg, 
JeffGilligan, andNeilTalsania, 
all of whom played in the A 
game, easily outran the Gators 
to score offensive tries for the 
Eggmen.
Carnegie Mellon faces Wheel
ing College of West Virginia 
Saturday.
Classifieds
For Sale
PARTY* PARTY* PARTY Visit 
Papermart - one stop party shop
ping. Corner of MorewoodAve. 
and Baum Boulevard. We have 
everything for any celebration!
NEVERPAYATYPIST AGAIN! 
Learn to touch type on an elec
tronic keyboard which guides 
you through the lessons. Small 
computer screen di splays speed 
and accuracy. Beeps when you 
make a mistake! Comes with 
workbook, cassette tape, 
manufacturers warranty. 10 
day delivery just $79. Tharp 
Assoc., Box 19078, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
Miscellaneous
Garage - space needed for this/ 
next semester, preferably walk
ing distance from campus, will 
pay rent for space. Call Wendy 
X4421.
ADOPTION - Happy married 
couple Yearns to share our 
hearts and home with a new
born. Medical expenses paid. 
Call collect (412) 423-2838.
Happily married Caucasian 
couple with 4 year old adopted 
child would like to share an
other childs love. We well pro
vide your baby a loving, happy, 
andfinancially secure home. All
expenses paid. Call collect (814) 
825-8452.
Pregnant? Looking for terrific 
adoptive parents? Call us! We 
have lots of love to share. Bonnie 
and Bob. Collect (412) 443-8938. 
Legal and confidential. Expenses 
paid.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for 
$44. Through the U.S. Govern
ment? Get the facts today! (312) 
742-1142. Ext. 3401-A
Services
ABC OFFICE SERVICESSouth 
Hills Village area; typing, word 
processing, term papers, resumes; 
editing service; 7 days, 9-9; fast, 
reasonable; 835-3488.
Lonely? Need a date? Meet that 
special someone today! Call 
DATETIME (405) 366-6335.
Housing
Squirrel Hill furnished 2 bedroom 
apartment. $360 per month plus 
utilities, 421-0671.
Shadyside Apartment Suites. 
Elegantly furnished, well ap
pointed 1 and 2 BR suites. In
cludes cable (HBO), phone, park
ing, linens. One block to Walnut 
St. shops. From $33 per day, one 
month minimum. Daily and 
weekly rates available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Small game company looking for
continued from page 9
munication with the campus and 
outside community to actively 
promote participation. You cant 
just hope they will see it [depart
ment news], he said. Harvey 
hopes to organize newsletters, 
flyers and signs to publicize 
events.
Geographic expansion and di
versity also need attention. Said 
Harvey, I would like to attract 
students from other states, 
through the recruiting of student 
athletes.
Harvey feels that the Univer
sity Athletic Association (UAA) is 
a step in the right direction to
ward varying the schools Carne
gie Mellon plays. Harvey would 
like to broaden the students ho
rizons through sports even more 
by incorporating geographically
diverse opponents into the Tar
tans schedules, like Massachu
setts Institute of Technology, the 
Coast Guard Academy, and some 
teams in California. Eventually 
he would like to take some teams 
abroad to face foreign competi
tion.
The tangible ideas on Harveys 
agenda include facility improve
ments. He is eager to see the 
completion of the new fields and 
stadium, as well as to get started 
on the plans for gym renovation, 
which he hopes will begin in 
February. The new stadium will 
offer lights and artificial turf, to 
extend possible playing hours and 
the quality of the field.
According to Harvey, these 
changes are part of the reason he 
took the job in March. The fact 
that we were deficient in some
areas attracted me to CMU, he 
said. 'Its a challenge to see if we 
can improve in these areas in the 
next few years. The negative 
things attracted me as much as 
the positive things.
The positive attractions of the 
job include Harveys repsect for 
the caliber of the student body 
and the strong reputation of the 
faculty. The students are ener
getic, enterprising and active and 
we [the department] have a staff 
of very capable coaches and teach
ers. He also acknowledges, the 
strength of the intramural pro
gram.
From his perch in the second 
floor of CMUs modest gymna
sium , although he admits there is 
a long way to go, Harvey glances 
at his bulletin board and says he 
is slowly chipping away.CMU Hockey trounces Allegheny, 9-2
By KELLY STERLING
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon hockey 
team faced off against Allegheny 
College Sunday and skated away 
the decisive victor. The Tartans 
overwhelmed the Gators by a 
score of 9-2.
The scoringimproved with each 
period. During the first period, 
Carnegie Mellons Chris Galvin 
scored the first of his two goals. A
IM News
goal by the opposition made the 
score 11 after one. In the second, 
Galvin, Craig Palli, John Caron, 
and Dave Collins each scored and 
the period ended 5-2.
The third period was all Tar
tans as they exploded for four 
goals. Scoring that period were 
Caron, Jan-Marc Featherston, 
Randy Walter, and James Th
ompson, who put in the gamewinner.
Other highlights of the game
The next Intramural Board Water Polo Certified Lifeguards: 
meeting will be held next ThursJulie Sterbank x4574 
day at 11 am in the gym lounge. John Bender x4574
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Touch Football
Commissioners:
Major League  Pat Jeffries 
Intermediate  Don Michel 
Minor  Rich Romeo 
Women Only  Sujit Bhattacharya
Campus Champions:
Major League  Beta Theta Pi 
Intermediate  Spirit A 
Minor  Pi Alpha Delta 
Women Only  Pi Alpha Delta 
A new IM record was set this 
year with 60 touch football teams 
participating.
Tennis
Campus Champions:
Major  IMM Upsets 
Intermediate  KSA 
Minor  Untitled 
A new IM record was set with 
30 tennis teams and 177 indi
viduals participating.
Water Polo
Commissioners:
Don Michel x5306 
Tom Fabian x4290
Soccer
Commissioners:
Majors  Pat Jeffries x4204 
IntermediateJ eff Myers x5478 
Minors, Women Only  Sujit 
Bhattacharya x4118
Volleyball
Commissioner:
Rich Romeo x4417 
Check IM bulletin board for 
playoffs schedules.
Table Tennis
Commissioner:
Jong Wei x4492 
Schedules can be picked up in 
the IM office.
Racquetball
Commissioner:
Sujit Bhattacharya x4118 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office.
Bowling
Commissioner:
Kris Pasqualin x4594 
Please pick up bowling rules 
and revised bowling schedule in
included play-makers by Palli 
and Featherston. Aplay-maker 
means having three assists yi one 
game.
Missing from the game,.were 
two of Carnegie Mellons,.best 
forwards. Ed Kildoff is under a 
game suspension from the league 
for fighting and Todd Henderson 
is suffering from a broken collar 
bone. Despite this disadvantage, 
the team played fantastic, said 
Captain Denny Frey.
the IM office.
Games will be rolled on the For
ward Lanes on Saturdays.
UPCOMING SPORTS 
Bridge
Commissioner:
Matt Murbach x8670 
The final entry due date is 
Thursday at 4:30 pm.
Darts
Commissioner:
Sujit Bhattacharya x4118 
The final entry due date is 
next Thursday at 4:30 pm.
Three-Man Volleyball
Commissioner:
Todd Balbera x5995 
The final entry due date is 
Thursday at 4:30 pm.
Backgammon
Commissioner:
Rich Romeo x4417 
The final entry due date is 
Thursday at 4:30 pm.
Chess
Commissioner:
Matt Murbach x8670 
The final entry due date is 
Thursday at 4:30 pm.
capable and innovative pro
grammer. Graphics experience 
desired. Flexible schedule. Call 
683-5729 evenings for details.
Babysitter wanted for 3 year-old 
Squirrel Hill, near transporta
tion. MWF, 12-5. Call 521-4032
Exotic Dancer WantedDo not 
work in Go-Go bars. Earn 200- 
500 per week. Part time, danc
ing only! Highest quality work 
and wages paid for quality 
people. (Dance-A-Grams and 
Vegas-Style shows.) We train 
you to be top notch! For big 
earnings and unbelievably easy 
work, call Blondie at 931-0900... 
Professional and reputable since 
1983.
Spring break 1990 - Individual 
or student organization needed 
to promote our Spring Break 
trips. Earn money, free trips 
and valuable work experience. 
Apply Now!! Call Inter-Campus 
Programs: 1-800-327-6013.
WANTED: Sympathetic Alge
bra I tutor for 13 year-old 
Shadyside girl. $15/hour. Must 
have car. Call 752-3501 (8:00 - 
5:00).
Models needed: Men, women, 
children, teens. Catalog, Bro
chures, T.V. State licensed, in
sured, no trainingrequired. Es
tablished 1973. Van Enter
prises. (412) 355-0412.
continued from page 12
Happy Birthday, Uncle Mich, Cousin Jeff, and 
Hippie Alan!
-Laura
P.-
They dont come any better than you.
~J.MRK CHPLK
Roses are black, Violets are black, U are black, I 
am black.
-Deuter
Heyjen K., 
Congrats, Buddy.
-Love, B.J.
Mike and Norm:
10 CHIPS???
18-133
Kirsten -
Happy 2 years, honey. Im dying to see you in 
two weeks. Can I pick you up at the airport? Jeg 
clsker dig forcvigt.
-Claus
2R:
Y<pu R incredible in every way, I miss your hairy 
legs. Howbout a trip to the V?
-Love you always,
R
Wheres Lalli???
BI still cant stop smiling.... Could we have a few 
more awkward moments together?
-? 10 1/2 ?
Beta Iota Omega:
The few, the brave, the sleepless.
Parker cant see in 3-D.
Happy, Happy, Happy Birthday to LHSB 
jj 1 r!!! Many green returns!
To the Sig Tau Kitty Cat,
Will you scratch our backs? Happy Belated 
Halloween.
-S.T.G.
Fluffy -
So how are the handcuffs working?
-DDD
So, Who did we lose to this week?
-Sammy MOB rules 
and Ruppster
Pete. Sweet.
Paul, (mech-e STUD)
Why dont you say Hi to me?
-The Girl
So Matt, how is your BIG hairy spider?
-The Girls
Watch out! Howdys hard!
EJ:
Youre the only one for me, ever...
Rock me, Howdy, Rock me...
-The Tartan Gang
This space intentionally left blank.

---------------------------------------------------

IHM?Ui
Tuesday 7
Academic 
Junior advance registration
for spring 1990.
Special Events 
Student Senate meetings are
held every Tuesday at 7 pm in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. The sen
ate office is located in Skibo 59.
For info call x2115.
?WRCT features a variety of in
ternational poetry on Interna
tional Poetry every Tuesday at 
8:30 pm.
Workshop 
?French language table in the
Morewood Dining Hall at noon.
Career Decision Making 
Workshop for Freshmen; first of 
a four part series designed to help 
you assess interests, abilities, and 
values as they relate to academic 
and career choices. Attendance at 
11/9, 11/14, and 11/16 is essen
tial. 5-6 pm, Warner 19.
?Richard M. Cyert, President 
of Carnegie Mellon University and 
MSIAs Distinguished Lecturer 
for 1989-1990 will give the lec
ture Impact of Technology on 
Employment in the Main Audi
torium of GSIA from 3:30-4:45 
pm. For info call x2271.
Movies
The Second Animation Cele
bration  The Movie. Brand 
new compilation of 24 animations 
from around the world including 
the Oscar-winner Tin Toy and 
The Simpsons. 7:30 and 9:30 at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, $4.
Wednesday 8
Academic pus. Two local comedians will per? Sophomore advance regisform before the contest begins, 
tration for spring 1990. Contestants will be judged by the 
Special Events professional comedians and winA Comedy Revue and Conners will be given gift certificates 
test will be held from noon until to the Campus Bookstore. The 
2 pm in West Hall Auditorium at Comedy Revue and Contest is free 
the Community College of Aland open to the public. For info 
legheny County, Allegheny Camcall 237-4630.
The theolog is in. Come and 
discuss questions you have about 
theology and religion with one of 
the members of the Campus 
Ministry Council. Every Wednes
day from 1-3 pm in Grey Matter. 
Sponsored by the CMU Campus 
Ministry Council.
Workshop 
?Spanish Language table in
Morewood Dining Hall at noon. 
?Macintosh Training Session 
Pagemaker. From 9-12 pm. See 
the announcements.
Dr. Raj Reddy, Director of the 
Robotics Institute, will give a 
lecture on achieving world
class competitiveness from 
12:30-1:45 in the Main Audito
rium of GSIA. For info call x2271. 
Movies
The Second Animation Cele
bration  The Movie. 7:30 and 
9:30 pm at the Pittsburgh Play
house, see above.
Thursday 9
Academic 
Freshman advance registra
tion for spring 1990 (except CIT/ 
MCS)
Special Events 
Convocation  Professor 
T.N.Krishman, Indian Classical 
Music at 12:30 pm in the Alumni 
Concert Hall. For info call x2383. 
WRCTs weekly call-in sports 
talk show where lucky listeners 
can win Pizza. At 8:30 pm on 
WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Tobias Pickers Old and Lost
Rivers receives its Pittsburgh 
premiere in a concert that also 
presents the 28th set of subscrip
tion concert performances of 
Brahms beloved Symphony No 1. 
Heinrich Schiff makes his Pitts
burgh Symphony debut in 
Haydns Cello Concerto at the 
Heinz Hall for the Performing 
Arts at 8 pm with a pre-concert 
conversation at 7 pm. For info call 
392-4800.
?Alpha Phi Omega has meet
ings every Thursday at 8 pm in
Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison. 
Alpha Phi Omega is a co-ed or
ganization. All activities are open 
to non-members. For info call 
x2116 or stop by Skibo 54. 
Medjugoije...Miracles? A 
Story of Renewed Faith will 
be the topic of discussion in the 
West Hall Auditorium at the Com
munity College of Allegheny 
County at 7 pm. Joan Ulicny, 
formerly of IBM W orld Trade Cor
poration will speak about her 
personal experiences in
Medjugoije, Yugoslavia. For info 
call 237-4630.
Workshop 
?Educational Action on Latin 
America presents Pedro 
Valenzuela, Department of Po
litical Science, University of Pitts
burgh. A Regime Under Stress: 
From Negotiations with Gueril
las to War against Drug Lords in 
Columbia. 7 pm in BH 231 B. 
?German Language table in 
the Morewood Dining Hall at 
noon.
 Business Opportunities C onference will be held all day in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
Macintosh Training Session 
 Pagemaker. 9-12 pm. See an
nouncements.
Movies
Time Bandits. Playing at 6, 
8:30, and 11 pmin Doherty 2210. 
Cost $1 with CMU ID.
The Second Animation Cele
bration  The Movie. 7:30 and 
9:30 pm at the Pittsburgh Play
house, see Tuesday.
Friday 10
Academic 
?Last day of formal advance 
registration.
Special Events 
?Mr. Fraternity Competition at 
9 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
Scotch'nSoda - Double 
Shots. "Every Womans Right" 
and "Boxed In." 8 and 9:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. 
?Pittsburgh Symphony at 8:30 
pm  see Thursday.
Workshop 
Japanese language table in
Morewood Dining Hall at noon. 
Movies
Bill and Teds Excellent Ad
venture. Playing at 6, 8,10 pm,
and midnight in Doherty 2210. 
Cost $1 with CMU ID.
?Batman (US, 1989), director: 
Tim Burton. Jack Nicholson, 
Michael Keaton, Kim Basinger, 
Michael Gough. The Joker takes
on Batman in this tribute to the 
original comic book creation and 
to the films Metropolis and Blade 
Runner for set design. 122 min
utes. 7:30 and 9:40 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
Saturday 11 -
Special Events 
? Swedish National Basketball 
Team vs CMU. Women at 6 pm, 
men at 8 pm in the gym.
Movies
Dangerous Liaisons. Playing 
at 6:30,9, and 11:30 pm in Doherty 
2210, cost id $1 with CMU ID, $2
without.
Batman (US, 1989), director: 
Tim Burton. Jack Nicholson, 
Michael Keaton, Kim Basinger,
Michael Gough. The Joker takes 
on Batman in this tribute to the 
original comic book creation and 
to the films Metropolis and Blade
Runner for set design. Nicholson's 
performance is magnificent. 122 
minutes. 7:30 and 9:40 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
JSunday 12
Special Events 
?Carnegie Mellon Philhar
monic Orchestra  8 pm in the
Carnegie Music Hall. Forinfocall 
x2383.
?Pittsburgh Symphony at2:30 
pm with a pre-concert conversa
tion at 1:30. See Thursday.
?The Mobilize for Women's
Lives march on Washington DC. 
If you are interested in prochoice, and would like to attend 
this monumental gathering, bus 
sign-up sheets are available in 
the Skibo Lobby - the deadline 
for sign-up is Nov 6. For info call 
361-1951.
? Fifth Annual Ferret show from
11 am-5 pm at the Birmingham 
Gallery, 20 South 14th Street. 
Students exhibiting ferret get in 
free with student ID. For info call 
322-1161.
Andreas Bach on the piano, 
from 12-4 pm at the Frick Art Mu
seum. Concerts are free and open 
to the public. For information
call 371-0600.
Movies
 Thunderball. Showing at 
6:30,9, and 11:30 pm in Doherty 
2210, cost $1 with CMU ID, $2 
without.
Citizen Kane (US, 1941) direc
tor: Orson Welles. Orson Welles, 
Joseph Cotton, Everett Sloane,
Agnes Moorehead. Possibly the 
best American film ever made. 
You wont see one like this again. 
A monumental film about wealth 
and ambition, going out of release 
after 1989.119 minutes. 7:30 and 
9:40 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
cost $3.
Monday 13
Special Events 
?Citiparks College ID Night at 
the Schenley Ice Rink. Free re
freshments from 7-9 pm. Admission is only $1 with a college ID.
Workshop 
? Macintosh Training Session:
Excel - Intro to Spreadsheets. 6-
9 pm. See announcements. 
Movies
?King Kong (US, 1933), direc
tor: Merian C. Cooper. Fay Wray,
Bruce Cabot. The classic beauty 
and the beast film about the go
rilla who climbs to the top of the 
Empire State Building with
screaming Fay Wray. The special 
effects are still wonderful. 105 
minutes. 7:30 and 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
Next Tuesday
Special Events 
?WRCT features a wide variety 
of international poetry on Inter
national Poetry. Every Tues
day at 8:30, on CMU's finest, 
WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Workshop 
Richard M. Cyert - MSIAs 
1989-1990 Distinguished Lec
turer will give the lecture Lead
ership versusManagementin Or
ganizations from 3:30-4:45 pm
in the Main Auditorium of GSIA. 
The lecture will be followed by a 
reception at 5 pm in the GSIA 
lobby. For info call x2271. 
?Macintosh Training Session: 
Excel - Introduction to Spreadsheets. 6-9 pm. See announce
ments.
Movies
Day for Night (France, 1973), 
director: FrancoisTruffaut. JeanPierre Leaud, Jacqueline Bisset,
Valentina Cortese. Delightful film 
about the making of a film in this 
tribute to American Movies. Os
car for Best Foreign Film. 116 
minutes. 7:30 and 9:40 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
The five rules of Socialism:
1. Dont think
2. If you do think, dont speak
3. If you think and speak, dont write
4. If you think, speak and write, dont sign
5. If you think, speak, write and sign, dont be surprised
Tad,
Gee, I guess youre just an athletic kinda guy...
TadYou slut. Hanging out with both the blondes in the office that youve 
had love affairs with. Arent rumors great.
Part two of The Rules:
5. The female is never wrong.
6. If the female is wrong it is.because of a flagrant misunder
standing of something the male has said or done.
7. If rule 6 applies, the male must apologize immediately.
8. The female can change her mind at any point.
9. The male must never change his mind without express 
written permission from the female.
Craig, Heidi, Lisa, and Mike -
Good luck! Knock their socks off! (I know you will) You guys are so 
great!
~L
Life is a pain. Anyone who tells you otherwise is trying to sell you 
something.
-The Princess Bride
I want somebody to love me for me...
-Heavy D.
continued on page 11
Do you have an event of 
interest to the CMU 
community?
Send information to the 
University Calendar. We'll 
include just about anything 
(let's face it, CMU isnt 
known for its social atmos
phere so we're desperate). 
Send calendar entries to 
the University Calendar 
The Tartan, Skibo 50 
or just submit them to the 
Skibo Info Desk c/o 
the University Calendar.
Announcements
Vector Marketing Corpora
tion will sponsor its Third 
Annual Essay Contest
with scholarship monies 
totaling $3,000 for winning 
entries. Students are asked 
to write a 500 word essay on 
the topic: Beyond Your 
GPA: What More Does it 
Take to Be Successful after 
College? Deadline for 
entries is December 1. For 
info contact Lauren Melone 
at 215-543-2236 or Bob Haig 
or Carol Quigley at 21 5-544- 
3020.
Exhibit in the Libraries. 
Using items borrowed from 
the University Archives and 
the Drama Department, the 
main exhibit is a celebration 
of the 75th anniversary of 
the Drama Department. 
Hunt Library, Fourth floor, 
September through Decem
ber. For more information 
contact Gabrielle Michalek, 
University Archivist, at 
x5021.
?Exhibit in the Libraries.
Hunt Library's Fine and 
Rare Book Room exhibit 
features the collection of 
Professor William A. 
Nelson (emeritus, CFADrama). On the fourth floor 
of Hunt Library, Monday 
through Friday, 1:30-4:30 
pm and Tuesday 7-10 pm, 
through November 15. 
Carnegie Museum 
Passes on sale at the Skibo 
Information Desk MondayFriday, 9 am - 5 pm for just 
$2, normally $5. Passes are 
good through December 31. 
?Fringe Run Practice. 
Come out and run with us if 
youre interested in running, 
Fringe or both. Tuesday and 
Thursday at 10 pm in the 
CFA lobby.
?The Hunt Institute for 
Botanical Documentation at 
Carnegie Mellon University 
will present Botanical 
Watercolors by Marilena 
Pistoia from November 6 
until February 23. Free and 
open to the public the exhi
bition will be on display on 
the fifth floor of the Hunt 
Library from 8:30 am to 
noon and 1- 5 pm, Monday 
through Friday. For. more 
information contact the In
stitute at x2434.
?Citiparks brings back 
College ID Nights at the 
Schenley Ice Rink. College 
ID Nights will be held Tues
days from 7-9 pm and 
Wednesdays from 1:30-3:30 
pm.. Admission is only $1 for 
college students with valid 
university or college ID. 
?The Macintosh Training 
Center offers small, infor
mal, hands-on training 
sessions for the Macintosh. 
Classes are open to anyone, 
the cost is generally $50 for 
a three hour session. Regis
tration and prepayment is 
required at least a week in 
advance. For info call x2199. 
The Admissions Christ
mas Campaign is Carnegie 
Mellons unique answer to 
high school visitation. Pro
spective students discover 
the school through the eyes 
of current Carnegie Mellon 
students in short presenta
tions made at the students 
hometown high schools 
during winter break. If you 
are interested, stop by the 
Admissions Office, Warner 
Hall 101 or call x2082 by 
November 13,1989. Train
ing material wil^be avail
able after Thanksgiving. 
Impressionism: Selec
tions from FiVp American 
Museums. Thisiexhibition 
at the Heinz Galleries 
gathers impressionist and 
post-impressionist master
pieces from five-American 
museums. Among the artists 
presented are Degas, Monet, 
Renoir, Gaugin, .and Van 
Gogh. Through December 
31.

---------------------------------------------------

Published by The Tartan 
Carnegie Mellon University 
November 7, 1989 
Volume 1 1, Number 2

---------------------------------------------------

mice A men
To Walt Disney a mouse was always a mouse. You 
could make him a railroad engineer, a ship's captain, 
a middle-class husband and father if you wanted to, 
but a mouse he was still. In the shadow Walter saw 
the substance, in the movement he perceived the 
constant. Mouseness, not humanity, was the heart of 
his creation. The business Disney saw it otherwise. 
The mouse was only a cute disguise for the man who 
lurked within. If you put tits on girl mice, then Mickey 
could walk up and squeeze one and everyone would 
get a kick out of that, even people who would be 
surprised or offended to see a human caricature do 
such a thing on a public screen.
 Max Apple, "Walt and Will" from Free Agents

---------------------------------------------------

of Introduction
S*s

m
Mrs. Vertuno is like a ghost 
that haunts all our family events 
confirmations, graduations, 
weddings, you name it. She's 
always there and always has been. 
Invariably, she shuffles in with two 
things: a patent leather, brassclasped purse that can only be 
called a pocketbook, and Ruth, her 
elderly, co-shuffling, Hawaiian 
sidekick whom we all but ignore. I 
greet Mrs. Vertuno like she is the 
prodigal daughter returned. It 
wasn't until recentlymy sister's 
wedding last summer when I had 
my arms wrapped around the 
womanthat I realized I had no 
idea who Mrs. Vertuno really was 
besides someone who I was 
supposed to be happy to see.
Now I find myself asking all sorts of 
questions about her: Where does 
she come from? Where does she 
go to? Who is Ruth anyway? 
Where is Mr. Vertuno? These are 
questions I never thought to ask 
before, and it's too late now. 
Twenty-one years of warm reception 
would make it improper for me to 
call Mrs. Vertuno a stranger. I plan 
on grilling Ruth at the next gettogether if it turns out she speaks 
English. I figure after years of being 
ignored, Ruth will spill her guts, if 
only for want of something else to 
do.
There are a great many 
things in my life life besides Mrs. 
Vertuno that I have incorporated at 
face value. I have just recently 
begun to weed them by reviewing 
my childhood experiences in a light 
that reveals them to be more than 
innocent fun.
And what could be more 
innocent fun than Chuck E.Cheese?
Chuck E. Cheese was 
mostly for birthdays. It was the 
place you could go and gorge 
yourself on pizza and drink, play 
video games and pinball, and listen 
to an almost live band. Actually, 
aside from beer, this is not far from 
what I do on the weekends now. I 
revisited Chuck E. Cheese a couple 
of weeks ago and discovered that 
Chuck E. has all the beer you could 
want and wine, too, if only you are 
old enough. And you win prizes 
from Jasper Jowls' General Store 
when you play their games. Give 
me an import night, and I'd take 
Chuck E. Cheese over the Squirrel 
Cage any day.
The height of your visit to 
Chuck E. Cheese takes place in the 
Pizza Time Theater where you 
watch these huge, mechanical 
puppets buck around to songs like 
"Down on the Corner" and "I Want 
to Stay Up and Party."
Chuck E. is the master of 
ceremonies. He's a mouse and has
all the trappings of onegray skin, 
long whiskers, buck teeth, a 
protruding nose. Backing him up 
are Jasper Jowls, a bear, who 
ostensibly owns the General Store 
where you pick out your prizes, 
and Mr. Munch, a purple, nicemonsterish something-or-other.
Helen Henny is the only female 
element in the band. She looks like 
a bulging pile of white fathers 
being held together in a dress.
She's supposed to be a hen except 
she has a big floppy red comb 
crowning her head which means, 
of course, that Helen is really a 
cock in drag.
I am sure Chuck E.'s 
people had no intention of hiring a 
transvestite chicken-in-a-dress to sing 
in Chuck E.'s band. The comb is 
so you know that Helen Henny (or 
Helen/Henry as we began calling 
him) is a chicken and not the 
exploding pillow creature. But 
once you notice it, the illusion is 
shattered. The show becomes 
downright campy. The kids don't 
notice it.
One boy at the fable next 
to me was so moved by Helen's 
rendition of "I Gotta Be Me" that he 
stood on the picnic table bench 
and started clapping his hands. I 
pictured him a dozen years down 
the road saying things to his analyst 
like, "I guess I had what you would 
call a normal childhoodhouse in 
the suburbs, birthday parties at 
Chuck E. Cheese ..." while 
expertly yanking panty hose out of 
his crack.
There is also a human 
character up on stage. Now, they 
don't just outright give away who 
he is, but the stained pizza apron, 
the red, white, and green shirt, 
handlebar moustache, accordion, 
and thick accent seem to indicate 
he might be Italian. If you don't get 
it on looks alone, they named this 
character Pasquali to dispel any 
further doubt of his heritage.
We do this with characters 
on television, in movies, and in 
songs where there is no time to 
develop a person with 
contradictory motivations, the 
complexities of intention that 
indicate a human being. For the 
sake of consistency, characters are 
reduced to archetypes that are 
readily-identifiable with a few 
physical markings. The problem is 
that identification soon becomes 
definition, and a self-generating 
cycle starts up where people begin 
to believe that these character types 
are real. Halloween is so scary 
because it gives us a chance to 
practice this belief that imitating 
another person depends on how 
well you can accessorize. Oh, I
know, they are only children.
I have a hard time 
understanding why kids find the 
Chuck E. Cheese band such a gas 
anyway. Watching these robots 
jerking around and blinking their 
eyes in some spastic approximation 
of life is unsettling in a way.
You can buy these kind of 
things nowTeddy Ruxpin and that 
whole line of toys is based on the 
same principles. I saw the internal 
workings of Teddy Ruxpin on the 
news when he first came to town. 
Without the outer bear shell, he is 
basically two eyeballs and a piece 
of jaw that run on a little motor. If 
you think it's freaky seeing a whole 
Chuck E. Cheese jerk around, you 
should see just two eyes and a jaw 
do it.
I have a Teddy Ruxpin. He 
was the toy you couldn't buy when 
it first came out, the Christmas 
shopping challenge of the season. 
People were walking around malls 
like they were playing a huge game 
of musical chairs, ready to grab a 
seat and pull out their charge should 
some department store get a 
shipment in and dump them on the 
main floor. Someone where my 
mom works had done just that, and 
then realized he did not need a 
Teddy Ruxpin at all, so he sold it at 
work for profit like a true scalper.
My mom was the highest bidder.
"You'll never guess what I 
got you for Christmas," she told me. 
"I think, you're going to like it a lot; 
you may not, but I think you will."
I was eighteen years old. 
"Wow," was all I could say on 
Christmas morning after revealing 
Teddy, but I said it in a way that 
could mean any number of things.
My mom gave me Teddy 
Ruxpin because I have this other 
teddy bear. I have had Brown Butt 
for as long as Mrs. Vertuno has 
been showing up at our family 
functions and maybe longer. The 
only place he had any fur left when 
I finally named him was on his 
nether parts. The name has always 
upset my mother. I remember 
hanging out, watching television, 
with Brown Butt's bottom plastered 
to my cheek (if was the only part of 
him that was soft), and my mother 
asked to see him. She held Brown 
Butt out from her at arm's length, an 
artist contemplating her work.
"Now I just wonder all the time," 
she said, "if there isn't a different 
name we could come up with for 
your little friend."
Brown Butt elicits a strong 
reaction from whoever I show him 
tosome see a stuffed animal who 
has been loved to the point of 
exhaustion; to others, he looks like 
when you don't throw away your

---------------------------------------------------

by Mark Bukovec
He adjusts the wiry spectacles 
hanging from his ears. Mom 
shoots a quick look at my brother 
stifling him. Mr. Joyce begins 
with his thin, reedy voice, 
a flood of words, 
some English, some Gaelic, 
many of a language all his own.
I whisper to my parents,
It's a stream of conciousness. 
Their mouths form two O's 
both nodding with solemn 
understanding. It goes on like 
this for an hour, until he glances 
meekly from the page; my brother 
bursts out laughing. I try 
to explain the significance 
of masterbation as the climactic 
scene; my parents laugh, too.
Mr. Joyce is pleased.
Mom pours him more wine.
Dad calls him Jim, pats 
him on the back. Grandmother, 
not hearing anything, tells 
me to bring him back home 
for Christmas.James Joyce at Our Dinner Table

---------------------------------------------------

D erg
Q S-*<9 </> "DS -O Q
(D
o r-^ c 
9- c CD -i 5
Q_g-Q E_ Q_
^ m Q^ CD00 Z!00 Q
O CD
SS-9r. 3 CD CD
5' mE?" Q_
S~l-ir - ^ Sn 
Q_ CD <
ICW. LUTy_ in 00
0^8 
< < S5- 7T<_ CD O
O .O =pZZ'I = < CD ; 
Q 2 IT
-3 
- ?r H
Q - <<1  n 3 JuST K iZ  
5= S.' 3^ L
Michele Garvey

---------------------------------------------------

sponge after a couple of years. I 
don't even know what holds him 
together anymore, but I am sure it 
takes more than thread.
Mostly because of his 
nameyou know how intriguing a 
bit of suggestion isBrown Butt has 
achieved a sort of celebrity status in 
my family. My Uncle Topper started 
this thing where, because we 
suspect he gave me the original 
Brown Butt, he tries to buy me a 
new Brown Butt for Christmas, so 
every year I unwrap a brand new 
teddy bear from him which I have to 
consider and point out the features 
where the new bear looks like 
Brown Butt. I don't know why 
Topper thinks I would want to 
replace the original. It would be 
like discarding my father just 
because he's going bald.
The rest of my family has 
followed Topper's lead, and now I 
get at least three stuffed bears for 
Christmas. It's a sure thing on the 
shopping list, right next to Grandpa 
gets a bottle of hooch.
This year promises to be no 
different. I was home last weekend 
and saw an ad in the Chicago 
Tribune: "Mistletoe Bear is Back." 
Mistletoe Bear is this white teddy 
with a red and green sweater that 
you get for free with every twentyfive dollars worth of purchases at 
Marshall Field's department stores. 
They started up last year, and 
everyone in the world had Mistletoe 
Bears to give away. I got four that 
year alone because what could be 
a better deal? My family not only 
knows what to get me for 
Christmas, but now it's free.
I see myself unwrapping 
them already, "Oh, isn't that funny, 
more Mistletoe Bears. And they 
look almost exactly like the other 
seventeen I have at home. I'll name 
this one Jason and this one Freddy, 
just to keep them separate in my 
mind."
My cousins think I'm 
something like the biggest sissy 
ever. Last year, I heard two of them 
talking about me in the kitchen.
"How old is he?" one 
asked, was told. "God, why is he 
such a pussy?" They saw me 
standing just outside the kitchen 
door clutching a Mistletoe to my 
chest. I was pretty pissed off, but I 
didn't want to make it seem like I 
was eavesdropping, so I put teddy 
down and started washing the 
dishes.
Sometimes I wonder what 
they think I do with all these teddy 
bears. I throw them in my closet 
without even bothering to name 
them anymore, having long since 
grown tired of trying to establish 
fictional linages to Brown Butt. I
think if I spent a summer sorting out 
the relationships of the bears in my 
closet, I would have my own 
Yoknapatawpha County to write 
about.
My Aunt Dotty talks about 
how I collect teddy bears. I think she 
says "collect" so it will seem more 
normal. But I don't actively collect 
them. I play with the idea of putting 
a stop to the whole messy business 
by introducing the paranormal into 
our Christmas gatherings and 
predicting what will be in the 
packages I am handed, but that 
would be snotty, and it is Christmas 
after all. What's the use in not 
keeping everything light? It's the 
thought. . .
I know I will feel dejected 
when I climb the salted steps to my 
grandmother's house this Christmas. 
Each year, I don't know if I can 
whoop it up believably for another 
four teddies. Seeing Mrs. Vertuno 
was always a welcome relief from 
my troubles but that has been shot 
now as well.
It really is no surprise at all 
that I feel for Pasquali when I go to 
Chuck E. Cheese because I have 
been stereotyped as well, reduced 
in the minds and eyes of my family 
to someone collects teddy bears at 
far too old an age.
Because I am feeling 
victimized, and because the 
shopping season starts earlier with 
every coming year, and that means 
people I know will be spending 
more Christmas dollars at Marshal 
Field's, we are publishing this 
Dossier expressly against 
stereotypes. There will be no pizzacooking, handlebar-moustached, 
accordion-playing Italians; no teddy 
bear-loving, thumb-sucking sissies; 
no blond bombshells described in 
terms of their long legs and even 
longer blond hair; no tall, dark, and 
handsomes, and not a single eye 
that can see to forever; No smart 
geeks, or dumb jocks, or nerds with 
scotch tape on their glasses and 
pocket protectors in their pockets; 
no muscle-bound brave army-types; 
no ugly bad guys or handsome 
good ones in white; no hardened 
criminals; no hookers with hearts of 
goldno one that is especially 
beautiful or admirable in any way, 
and no one who entirely despicable 
either. You could not use a single 
character in these pages for a thirty 
second commercial, three minute 
song, or Hollywood movie, and you 
will almost certainly never find one 
backing up Chuck E. Cheese in the 
Pizza Time Theater.
As a matter of fact, the only 
person that is a stereotype in this 
issue is James Joyce, but he deserves 
if for writing Ulysses.
0 0
Christopher Kush

---------------------------------------------------

Contents
The First Chile!
by Christopher Sheehan 
designed by Margaret McCormack
The Shaft
by Mark Schmick 
designed by James Baker
The SouE of Helen Stays
by Trina Pundurs
designed by Christopher Shields
In Lispeth Room
by Michael Rose
designed by Allison Culbertson
RifuaE
by Michele Garvey 
designed by Andy Simons
Janies Joyce at Our Dinner Table
by Mark Bukovec 
designed by Kristin Chase
Submissions
Dossier is The Tartan's monthly literary forum and welcomes the 
chance to read any submissions. Send us your poetry, fiction, 
plays and essays. All submissions must be accompanied by 
name, address and phone number.
Send submissions to:
Dossier
c/o The Tartan 
Box 50, Skibo
Next deadline: Friday, November 17, 1989
Credits
Literary Editor: Christopher Kush 
Design Editor: Soo-Tsu Leng

---------------------------------------------------

In Lispeth Room
Theres a fireplace painted white, cold 
As the snow on the ground outside. 
Walls have ears and speak in tongues:
There are two people in Lispeth room
Poor lamb has lost his skin, it covers 
Some of the rug and the floor,
The warmest spot of all.
One of them is Lispeth
In darkness, the closet disappears. 
Garments laugh and exchange 
Places on the floor;
Bogart, Bacall, and the rest look on, 
Betly Blue watches from the side.
Michael Rose

---------------------------------------------------

Trina Pundurs
No one thinks her a mystic. 
This brutish girl has eyes 
as flat as dimes, the hands
of a man. She is not beautiful 
like her sisters. She is rarely 
When a sudden illness takes her
she goes gladly, free now to grow 
lovely in the knowledge of the dead. 
She is wise enough to settle in walls
and let her name seep out
like a fragrance, the hint lingering
soft as the feet of the deceased.

---------------------------------------------------

The First Child
Between the languid span of delirium 
the disappearing moments of the present 
warm salty tears run through my skull 
I bathe in the lifeblood of memory 
Christened again 
1 am new
The holy water thick as blood 
pure as angel hearts 
envelops me like music 
plays deep inside me my childhood 
like the sweet music box that once lulled me to sleep 
The dreams take me back home 
The spirit pulls me 
Absorbed into the womb 
wrapped inside the mother 
Dreams flow like water 
I drink so free and innocently 
My eyes open slow 
The light stings for a second 
and I have never felt so old before
Chris Sheehan

---------------------------------------------------

There was a small, small sound off to his 
left, and Mark craned his head toward it. He 
looked at the grey dumpster which sat in 
the corner, wheeled in for storage over the 
Christmas holiday. It seemed as if, in this 
quiet, he could hear the softest scrape, the 
tiniest scratch. Mark peered into the darkness 
beneath the dumpster, into a darkness that 
seemed almost liquid, as if it had dripped 
down from the dumpster's murky contents. 
He saw nothing, and slumped hack against 
the wall, reviewing once again the events 
which had landed him here, in this strange 
basement corridor, among these strange 
basement sounds.
He had arrived in New York City by 
bus only three hou cs earlier. He was hungry 
and die masses of people were making him 
skittish. As the escalator carried him 
smoothly up to the ground floor of the Port 
Authority, a black man detached himself 
from the tiled column against which he had 
been leaning. The man swam skillfully 
through the crowds, falling into an easy 
step next to this clean, nervous, young 
white boy.
Mister." His voice was tentative. Mark 
continued walking, ignoring the old man, 
who waited a few moments before speaking 
again.
Mister? You need some help with that 
bag?
Mark swung the bag to his other hand. 
The black man continued to walk along 
beside him. After a few more steps Mark 
finally turned to look at him. The man's 
eyes were turned forward and down, 
studying the course ofhis shuffling feet. He 
seemed young, yet his face was drawn into 
a dark cloth of folds and pockets, and a 
streak of grey above his ears had survived 
a recent and primitive haircut. Instinctively, 
Mark found himself repulsed by this man's 
downward looking, by the wrinkles ofhis 
face. In their folds he pictured the lice of the 
city breeding, the drugs and the trash and 
the dirt. He wanted nothing of it.
No thanks. I can handle it just fine." 
He tried to speak firmly but heard his voice 
waver. The man beside him took a deep 
breath and tried once more.
Listen, Mister. My kidsll be lucky if 
they get a full stomach for Christmas.
What's the trouble? Ill carry that bag>*-'<11
,, ... c^ifomoreas you re going and I won tajji^
than a dollar."
.. ,-ad taken his eyes away. HeBut
j. _^ofw:\rd, studying now the course of 
-tils own feet. It made it easier to talk.
Forget it. Its no problem. I don't have 
far to go.With that he quickened his steps. 
He left the man behind and wound his way
he door 
*
toward the main entrance on Triborough 
Street. Behind him, the man ran slowly out 
of gas. He stopped and began sinking into 
the enveloping crowds. He was breathing 
heavily, dragging air in, the dark folds ofhis 
face growing deeper with each breath.
On the outside, Mark was hailinga taxi 
to drive him over to the Baxter Building on 
Bleecker in SoHo. Once there, he sloshed 
in the main entrance and took the elevator 
up to the 7th floor. To his left he found a 
glass-faced office, with Joiner and Sons, 
Builders silkscreened on the glass in red. 
Around the red lettering, someone had 
hung a green Christmas wreath with tiny 
white lights. When he walked in the door 
he heard a whoop to his right:
Mark! Thank God!...
Jackie ran up and gave him a hug that 
could have been powered by hydraulics. 
He dropped his bag and caught her up, 
noticing in the back of his mind how 
pungent sensations were when you were 
hungry: the smell of her hair was dark and 
rich and he could feel every ripple of her 
body through the thick blue sweater. He 
could feel her breath on his ear as she 
spoke.
"We were worried about you. What 
happened? They parted and he couldn't 
help noticing that she had lost a few 
pounds since the last time he was in the 
city. She was brighter, more energetic. He 
smiled and shrugged his shoulders.
My bus was late getting in. Late leaving, 
actually. Im sorry about thatI should 
have called from the terminal, but I just 
wanted to get out of there." He shrugged 
again as she continued to purse her lips at 
him. Don't I look sheepish yet?"
She gave way into a smile. OK, but 
you should have called!" She looked down 
at her watch. Dont you need to make 
some calls now?"
Mark looked down at his own watch 
and his eyes bugged out. Jesus! It late 
I need to call Bob and Dolores right away. 
Whered they move the phone toi< 
He looked around the roopJ'jirani5c with
renovations. .-
ja^^Jfnted through a set of double 
../rs behind his left shoulder. When are 
we going to have a chance to talk, Mister? 
Tonight! Ill call you at about eight 
will you he home?"
Should be, she said. "If not, leave a 
message, and Ill call you back later, 
alright?"
Mark nodded and gave her a smile 
which apologized for the rush. She nodded 
her understandingand went to gel her coat. 
Mark walked into the phoning room and
sat down at one of the empty cubicles. The 
room was silent now, but he remembered 
what a madhouse it could be-from his 
soliciting job there last summer.
He tried Bobs numberbutkeptgetting 
a busy signal. He called his mother back in 
Cleveland, as promised, letting her know 
that he was safe and warm in this city which 
terrified her. Before he left she had pointed 
out an article in the New Yorker about the 
citys drug trafficking problem. She had 
never read the New Yorker before to the 
best of Marks knowledge.
He sat patiently while she vented her 
store of anxieties upon him. Jackie leaned 
in die door and jerked her thumb toward 
die entrance. Mark nodded, balancing the 
handset on his shoulder while he made a 
phone widi his thumb and pinky. She 
nodded and ducked back out die door. 
Mark returned to his mother and smoothed 
die last few ruffles. After he hung up, he 
uied Bob again. It mng once and dien 
picked up.
Bob! Howya doing? Its Mark!" They 
chatted for a short time, long enough for 
Mark to get directions to Bobs apartment 
on Carmine Street. But he was starving, and 
all he really wanted right now was to find 
himself parked in a warm little Italian 
restaurant, reenergizing his spent reserves 
with a big plate of caligari.
Mark never got out of die Baxter 
Building. Hesatnow, ina basement corridor, 
with his back against a wall, thinking 
ruefully diat as much as he preferred caligari 
over clubbed rat, he wasstill getting mighty 
hungry. When hed walked out of die 
phone room the office had darkened, and 
the front glass doors had been locked. In 
die renovations they had moved the familiar 
stairwell he had used at late hours, so now 
he wandered down die darkened hallway. 
He found a young man sitting at a desk, 
completing die days notes in a ledger| )pok.
Excuse me... could you tell me how 
Im supposed to get out of here? It seems 
the front doors have been locked."
Mark caught a flash of startling blue 
eyes as the man looked up, annoyed at the 
interruption. He quickly returned his gaze 
to the ledger; for one confusing moment 
Mark thought he was going to be ignored, 
dien the man raised one finger to point 
coldly at die other end of the office.
"Jerk." Mark tossed the thought over 
his shoulder as he picked up his bag and 
headed in the prescribed direction. He saw 
an exit sign which seemed to point to one 
of two doors, but the queer angle made 
Mark pause for a moment, uncertain. He
thought to go back and ask the ledger-man 
again, but it wasnt worth it. Mark took the 
nearer of the two doors, finding a stairwell 
which he began to descend.
His trek had bottomed out in this 
basement corridor. Mark had looked arou nd 
for a while, expecting to find a door or a 
hallway diat would empty him onto the 
Manhattan streets outside. But when he 
found every door locked, including the 
badirooms, he decided that die imbecile 
upstairs had pointed him to die wrong 
stairwell. He went back to die stairwell 
door, grabbed the handle and gave it an 
angry tug. It solidly ignored him, and Mark 
stood for a moment, blanked in complete 
surprise. He tugged again. Locked. Marks 
chin dropped as his predicament crashed 
down on him; he knew widi an immediate, 
prescient surety that he was trapped in die 
basement of diis building which had just 
shut down for the winter holiday. There 
would be no phone, no food, and no heat. 
The rat, he would discover later.
Mark managed to break into die womens 
badiroom first, then the mens. He was 
hoping to find a window he might crawl 
dirough or yell out of, but die corridor was 
apparendy subterranean. There was a large, 
steel, rolling door, which seemed as if it 
might hide a loading dock, but its opaque 
windows were laced widi security wires, 
and no banging could raise a response 
from die other side.
Mark pulled back his thumbnail while 
breaking into die womens room. The lower 
half of the nail turned red, and a crimson 
sliver of blood snaked its way around die 
nails perimeter. He sat on the cold concrete 
and counted off nine drops of blood falling 
before die bleedingstopped. What remained 
was die sensation of a hammer being 
brought down repeatedly on die end ofhis 
thumb. The pounding resonated widi die 
gnawing pangs in his stomach. He heard 
anodier faint sound and turned to the 
dumpster once again. Again hesawnodiing.
He sat diere for what seemed like a 
long time, imagining that time was becoming 
elastic. His heartbeats, which had seemed 
to come once every second, now came 
once every minute, and seemed finally to 
stretch ou t in alarmingly vast spans between 
each reassuring beat. But he knew this 
wasn't so. He sat and watched his mind 
float into two halves; one half was aware, 
and alarmed at what was happening. The 
other half was a simple observer, impassive 
and peaceful. It observed the pain coming 
from his thumb; the rat crouched beneath
die dumpster, chewing the grisde off a 
bone in the absolute dark. It observed a 
seam in die wall in front of him, rising from 
floor to ceilingsomething suddenly 
gadiered him back and propelled him to his 
feet. In front of him was a pair of freight 
elevatordoors wliidi he hadnt even nodced. 
Theywere flush with die wall andunmarked, 
painted the same pale and dirty yellow as 
die rest of die corridor. He walked up to 
them and looked for some sort of handle. 
There was none. He placed his hands flat 
against die doors and tried to move them, 
but they were locked firmly. He looked the 
doors over, every inch, looking for a 
loophole, and on die left, he found diat he 
could just pry his fingers into the crack 
between door and wall. The doors swayed 
slighdy, heavily, and Mark nodced that they 
swayed more on the bottomthey were 
locked on top.
Eagerly, he got down on his back and 
wedged his fingers on the edge of die door. 
Near die bottom, die door gave his fingers 
some room to spare, and that was all he 
needed. He rocked the door twice before 
hearing a crack near the top as die lock box 
broke away. It swung crazily from two 
wires as the doors rolled open.
He looked into die ink-black shaft 
which his effort had revealed. It yawned 
down diree more floors. Cables caked with 
grease snaked down past him to a pair of 
freight elevators parked at the bottom. 
Grease and soot had blackened die brick 
walls of the shaft to which angle-iron was 
bolted in a latdcework which provided a 
track for die elevators.
Anxious as he was to get out of diere, 
something made him pause at the edge of 
die shaft, his legs dangling down die long 
drop. He leaned forward and looked down 
into the pit, considering better ways to kick 
off. If he stayed here, perhaps a janitor 
would chance upon him. On die other 
hand, if he waited, his degrading strength 
would amplify the risk.
A metallic scratch creeped out from 
beneadi the dumpster behind him. To hell 
with thisMark got up immediately and 
gave one foot to die darkness, placing it 
gingerly on a piece of angle-iron. As he 
swung the rest ofhis body into the shaft, he 
fought back a flash-flood of anxieties that 
poured over him. He imagined die elevator 
suddenly stalling up, pinioning him against 
die walls, or perhaps chewing his limbs 
between irresistable gears. He stopped for 
a moment to catch his breadi. He funneled 
his attention into every placement of his 
foot, every handhold, and afteronefloorhe 
found that he could traverse the rear plane
of die lattice like a tall ladder. Within a 
couple of minutes he stood atop one of the 
elevators, tugging at die hatchway set into 
the roof. The inside of die elevator was 
dark, but Mark thought he could make out 
the floor below. He jumped down, fell a 
few feet further than hed expected, and 
landed hard.
For two minutes he sat diere breadiing 
and listening. Slowly his eyes adjusted and 
he began to make out a few blurry features. 
Above him a gutted switchbox was choked 
in a thick layer of dust, the cloth insulation 
rotting off the wires. He looked through the 
dust ofhis landing, still hanging in the air 
at rusted hinges inside a space no one had 
seen in years. The realization setded slowly 
that he was crouched inside the corpse of 
an elevator buried long and deep. His mind 
flared fora moment; claustrophobia made 
the walls of the dead elevator seem to 
pulsate, and he scrambled to his feet. As he 
did so, die darkness deepened and clutched 
at him. It grabbed his ankles and pulled him 
back into die black cage, down, widiout a 
sound.
When Mark woke up, the first thing he 
realized was that he had fallen out of time. 
He didnt know whether he had been out 
for seconds or hours; he couldn't see his 
watch in die dark. His mind had calmed 
considerably, and he remembered now the 
elevator that was neighbor to this one. He 
got up slowly and began clambering his 
way up die chain-link wall to die ceiling. 
Once out, he hopped gingerly over to die 
next elevator and once again, yanked open 
the ceiling hatchway. He jumped down 
more lighdy this time, his vision improved 
and his body was accustomed to die fall. 
Near the door sat a tiny, three-legged stool, 
and next to it gleamed a stocky brass direebell controller. There was no dust here. 
Beneath a tiny shelf Mark found a singlethrowswitch. He looked at it a long moment 
before throwing it. Far above at the top of 
the shaft, a strong motor came to life with 
an electrichum, and Mark nearly cried with 
relief. As he reached for die warm brass 
handle, he closed his eyes for a moment, 
listening to his thoughts. He would soon be 
rising swiftly to the patron elevators on die 
fifth floor, butfornowhedioughtintensely 
of the man in the Port Authority terminal, of 
this giving season, and he thought of 
something at the pit of him which had been 
revealed, something cheap and irrevocable.

---------------------------------------------------

/olume 84, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania7 November 1989
Creating the perfect room
ByDEXTERT.KOBAYASHI
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Living in a dorm can be tough. 
Along with possibly living with 
one or two complete strangers, 
there is the problem of the dorm 
itself. When we first moved in, 
the dorms were just rooms with a 
few bits of furniture tossed here 
and there. Hardly a welcoming 
sight, many of us looked with 
despair in our eyes at the place 
that we might be . living in for 
years to come. Most of us quickly 
put up our posters brought from 
home with pictures of things we 
like to look at  Teddy Bears, 
black Lamborghinis, Nagel illus
trations, Christie Brinkleybut 
some have gone a step further. 
This is the story of five dorm 
rooms in Morewood and the people 
who live in them.
Unknown to most people, Morewood B tower has an eighth floor. 
Actually, its just one room above 
the seventh floor. Katrina 
Chizmar, Mary Grace Strauss, 
and C.J. Apel live in 7-B-13 and 
their room is located at the end of 
a flight of stairs that begins on 
the seventh floor. Their room con
sists of a small lobby, a bedroom, 
a bathroom, and a walk-in closet. 
What makes this room even more 
interesting is the fact that Apel 
lives in the walk-in closet. I have 
everything in here: my books, 
computer, radio, and dresser. 
Everything, except my clothes, 
said Apel. Her father built the loft 
in three hours. It was very hard 
to get it up the stairs and into the 
closet.
Mike Barmada, A.J. Marzuc, 
and Curtis Sayer live in E-206. 
Barmada and Marzuc sleep on 
lofts they put together. Theyre a 
lot more comfortable than beds, 
said Barmada. They are very
sturdy because they are supported 
on four comers with cross sup
ports. Four people can safely sit 
on the top without worrying about 
it collapsing. The plywood and 
carpeting for the lofts came to 
about $200.
Rob Johnston, Frank Ross, and 
RickPasetto came to school a week 
early to room 4-A-4 and to add 
some interesting touches. They 
have mirrored walls, a neon light, 
a traffic light from Florida, an ar
cade game, 3 sets of track lighting 
with dimmers for each light, 
shelves, and a sofa in their dorm 
room. They put their beds in a 
small room that was intended for 
one bed and a desk. The three 
Computer Engineers even built a 
remote control that controls the 
lighting. Everyday something is 
different, said Rob Johnston.
Gray Jones, Mike Vartanian, 
and Jae Yang have a huge loft in 
their room. It measures 8 by 13 
and stands 7 tall. Originally it 
was designed and built by Tony 
Shribman in his freshman year
and they bought it from him. The 
clearance on the loft is 66. Its 
great. Only thingwe needis areal 
kitchen, said Gray Jones. Once, 
on Superbowl Sunday, ten people 
were on it and it cracked. They 
said that whoever stays there next 
year can have it. It was designed 
specifically for that room and it 
couldnt go anywhere else.
Jessica Bier and Suzanne Sacco 
live in room 6-B-12. The room es
sentially has two stories. It took 
four guys from SAE to put it to
gether. Six or seven people can 
stand on the second story at a 
time. They have to take it down 
during the summer because of 
dorm regulations, but they put it 
back every year. They plan to sell 
it to whoever moves in.
There are many things that you 
can do to liven up your room. 
Although adding a second story 
to your room may seem a bit dras
tic, rearranging a few bunkb'eds 
might do wonders to the aesthetic 
value of your room. After all, your 
dorm is your castle.
le eIeg kO ,Pa9oL 4eCPamL
Above: Mike Barmada is seen here sitting on his loft in Morewood Gardens. One of his two 
roommates also has a loft, which is a little smaller. It took Barmada and two friends three 
days to build the two lofts. The materials for the lofts cost $200. According to Barmada, 
the lofts are great because they save a lot of space. The only problem with the lofts are 
the height, sometimes Barmada and his roommates bump their heads as they pass 
underneath their lofts.
Above: Rob Johnston, a junior CE major, is playing the video game Gyruss. In addition to 
the video game, Johnston and his two roommates have a neon sign, a mirror, a traffic light 
and some track lighting to add to the decor of their room.
Left: Jessica Bier is eating a quick 
dinner on top of her loft. This huge 
loft was built several years ago and 
it is continually passed down to 
whoever lives in the room.
"it

---------------------------------------------------

py,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Dan Cohen, candidate for City Council, discusses the economy of Pittsburgh
By DEXTER T. KOBAYASHI
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Carnegie Mellon University was 
founded in a Pittsburgh that was 
' a bright and blooming industrial 
city, Dan Cohen said. But in recentyears, with the decline of the 
steel industry, Pittsburghs econ
omy has faltered.
According to Cohen, candidate
latest estimate, Pittsburghs 
population had dropped to
365,000. Cohen also noted that 
Pittsburgh has dropped from the 
third to the fifth largest national 
corporate headquarters and has 
lost 32,000 jobs to other cities.
Whats the problem? asked 
Cohen. His answer: Were not 
selling Pittsburgh properly. 
According to Cohen, Pittsburgh
for City Council, Pittsburgh has has great assetsthatmany people 
only a shadow of the greatness outside of this city do not know 
that it had during the middle of about. Several examples that he
the industrial revolution. Cohen 
gave a lecture Thursday in Ham
burg Hall on what Pittsburgh can 
do about its economy and the fu
ture.
Cohen started by pointing out 
that Pittsburgh is losing its in
habitants. In the early 1950s the 
population was 750,000. By the
cited include relatively low cost 
housing compared to that of other 
large cities; a low crime rate; great 
research and health facilities; and 
alocation within 500 miles of over 
half the population of the conti
nental United States.
Outside of Pittsburgh, we still 
have an image of being an old,
smoky steel city, said Cohen. He 
hopes to rebuild Pittsburghs 
image and attract new businesses. 
Cohens plan involves the crea
tion of an Office of Economic De
velopment. Many other cities have 
such an office for the purpose of 
developing struggling economic 
potentials and for the mainte
nance of the citys economic 
health.
Cohen also wishes to allocate 
more money towards the Office of 
Promotion. Offices of Promotion 
in cities like Cleveland, Baltimore, 
and Atlanta have budgets be
tween $1 million and $1.6 mil
lion. Pittsburghs Office of Pro
motion has only $300,000.
Cohen said that the money for 
thenewbudget should come from 
private contributions, especially 
from large corporations. The
purpose of the office is to promote 
a good image of Pittsburgh.
We need to be long sighted. We 
cant be short sighted, said Co
hen. Putting more money into the 
Offices of Promotion and creating 
an Office of Economic Develop
ment would drain the economy 
for a while, but in the long run, it 
would boost the economy.
Accordingto Cohen, Pittsburgh 
needs to aggressively find compa
nies that are thinking of relocat
ing or opening new branches. An 
example is the Sony corporation, 
which is considering Pittsburgh 
as the site of its new plant. Cohen 
feels that Pittsburgh is not doing 
enough to attract prospective 
corporations. He said, We must 
make sure that we go to them and 
tell them what they can get in 
Pittsburgh.
Cohen believes that Pittsburgh 
isslowlymakinga transition from 
a manufacturing - to a service - 
oriented city. Because of the 
strong research and health facili
ties, Cohen thinks thatPittsburgh" 
should actively seek out compa
nies that would be compatible.
Also, Cohen says that Pitts
burgh should take care of the 
companies that are already here. 
Seventy percent of all businesses 
that fail fail within the first two 
years.
Cohen suggests a new business 
incubation period in which the 
city helps out new businesses by 
lessening the burdens placed on 
them. Lowering the rent or less
ening taxes for the first two years 
would help fledgling companies 
get over the two-year hump.
Cohen sees the future of Pitts
burgh in the riverfronts: "Tri 
riverfronts are what caused oui 
pioneers to settle here. What 
like to see is the riverfronts is 
continuous public accessa plat. 
where people would like to coine
something that would be the hall
mark of the city of Pittsburgh * 
He added, Im confident that 
we can make the city of Pitt,, 
burgh even greater. I think Pitt? 
burgh is, in some ways.
approach the 1990s, teeteri^ 
between being... ahistorical shell 
and... a progressive and dynainit
city that will attract people, 
that will have a revitalized ecoi 
omy. I am confident that we cai 
marshal resources, that we cat 
make Pittsburgh teeter in the 
right direction and ultimatel 
crawl into a dynamic and p^. 
gressive city.
A Persons Opinion
Most CMU students dread 
that inevitable event that comes 
towards the end of each semes
ter registration. It is a time of 
getting up early and skipping 
classes to stand in long lines 
with your R3D form, just to reg
ister for courses. And the oddest 
thing is that here, at one of the 
nations most computerized 
schools, registration is done with 
pen and paper.
However, all of that is chang
ing. Recently, the University 
initiated a new registration 
process.
This semester, the University 
has changed from pen and paper 
to computers, from R3Ds to 
RADs, and from three days of 
general registration chaos to 
four days of organized registra
tion sectioned by class level.
How do the students feel about 
the new pre-registration proc
ess?
Sharon Melia 
Freshman MCS
Its probably good, rather than 
have everyone go at once. I didnt 
have to suffer through that be
cause Im a freshman. Its easy for 
us, we just have to turn in the 
sheets. Im sure its better if it 
gives everyone more time.
Robert Brumfield 
Junior EM
Actually, I rather like it. It 
makes more sense this way. They 
divide it up over days and of course 
that makes less work per day for 
the administration. In addition, 
students have less lines to stand 
in and less waiting time. They 
[the administrators] are finally 
taking our advice and changing 
the whole thing around.
Henry McGrath 
Freshman CIT
Its not really that big of a 
change to me. It doesnt make 
much of a difference, as long as I 
get the classes I need. I dont see 
any problems with it; in fact, 
maybe it may be an advantage. 
The system seems to be working 
effectively to me. I think its a 
good idea.
Sheila Farrelly 
Junior H&SS
I guess its going to be better 
because its going directly to the 
registrar instead of you signing 
up lists and having six little scraps 
of paper that have your classes on 
it. So I guess its more efficient, 
but its not working well right 
away.
photos by Lauren Poyant 
Steve Snyder 
Senior MCS 
Dividing by classes is great. 
Its about time. As for the com
puters, wait until next semes
ter when they start screwing 
stuff up, well see then. If it 
works, great. They havent had'' 
time to mess anything up yet.
CFA............ 2 fall seats
5 fall seats 1 spring seat
H&SS......... 3 fall seats
3 fall seats
1 fall seat
2 spring seats
SUPA......... 1 fall seat
2 spring seats
 Petitions at Skibo Information Desk
. m-% 
ff?* 
Petitions due November 14th (at the Info. Desk) 
Elections will be Nov. 28-29 in front of Doherty Hall

---------------------------------------------------

,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcScpv
Neil Sheehan, war correspondent, speaks on Vietnam
By KEVIN BARNEY
- Tartan Features Editor
U J There can be no parades for 
'' Vietnam, no floats, no John Phil"lip Sousa marches. At the end of 
the ceremonies [of the dedication 
of The Vietnam War Memorial] 
when the dignitaries were leav
ing and the crowd was dispersed, 
'a veteran from Richmond with a 
" trumpet walked up to an official 
'of the American Legion and asked 
111 if he could play Taps. The officer 
"Qwas a veteran from WWII and he 
' said, Go ahead, play Taps. The 
former sailor from Richmond, the 
veteran of the war in Vietnam, 
,J stood on top of the wall with all of 
the names, put his trumpet to his 
lips and played taps for Vietnam. 
 And a hush came over those who 
^were still around the monument.
A number of the other veterans 
who were there came to attention 
) and saluted him. The Vietnam 
 War Memorial had been fittingly
dedicated at last.
Neil Sheehan, a war journalist 
who spent three years covering 
the war for UPI and The New 
York Times, opened his lecture 
Thursday about the Vietnam War 
with the previous comment.
According to Sheehan, the Viet
nam war was not a total loss for 
the United States. A defeat in a 
war we should never have fought 
can be as precious as victory if we 
can learn from it. And we learned 
never to fight a war for the wrong 
reasons in the wrong place.
The wrong reasons consisted of 
some bad reasoning in the high 
levels of the United States gov
ernment. According to Sheehan, 
the government was convinced 
that Ho Chi Minh and his follow
ers were pawns of the Chinese 
government and they would even
tually take over all of Southeast 
Asia. We thought we were stop
ping the first wave of the national 
liberations that would eventually
To forget Vietnam is to forget the
fallible humanity we share with the
rest of humankind.
 Neil Sheehan
sweep all through all of the third 
world countries.
This, in fact, was almost the 
exact opposi te of what would have 
happened. Vietnam was Chinas 
enemy throughout the centuries. 
Every time a new dynasty came 
into power in China, thatdynasty 
invaded Vietnam and each time 
Vietnam was invaded, China lost. 
Vietnam has the distinction of 
being victorious three different 
times over the Mongels, who 
rarely lost a war.
Various foreign government 
officials thought that the United 
States shouldnt enter into the
problems that Southeast Asia 
had. Sheehan gave an example of 
this with a story of Ho Chi Minh 
and a polish diplomat. In early 
1963, Ho said to the diplomat 
that the United States is too wise 
and pragmatic to get involved in 
our affairs. Ho Chi Minh went on 
to say that the United States 
would never pour its resources 
into Vietnam endlessly.
Sheehan went on to talk about 
the history of Southeast Asias 
problems and how the United 
States became involved in them. 
The problems of the Vietnam war 
destroyed the careers of at least
two presidents. Lyndon B. 
Johnson had so many problems 
stemming from the war that he 
decided not to run for re-election. 
Richard Nixons career as Presi
dent ended with Watergate, which 
can be attributed to the Vietnam 
War, according to Sheehan: I 
dont think there wouldhavebeen 
a Watergate if there had not been 
a war to precipatate it.
Sheehan also stated that in 
1965, Americahad the finestarmy 
that our country had ever seen. 
Th at was one of the saddest things 
about the war; all of the lost gal
lantry. One of the first battles 
involved 100 Americans in com
pany C holding a ridge. An entire 
North Vietnamese battalion en
gaged in a battle. Three hours 
later, only 40 Americans could 
walk away, yet the enemy could 
not get the ridge.
The soldiers were the people 
who had captured the senseless
ness of the war, the dehumanist
quality that the leadership had 
degenerated into with its killratios and body counts. [The sol
dier] caught it in the language he 
devised to describe the war. If you 
got killed in WWII, you bought 
the farm. If you got killed in Viet
nam, you got wasted, you got 
blown away.
Sheehan closed out his lecture 
with the reason that we should 
not forget about this war. Viet
nam must remain an adamant 
memory. The lives of the 58,000 
remembered on the wall demand 
it. The crippled veterans in the 
wheelchairs who need special 
courage to face each day, demand 
it. The dead in Indochina, and the 
widows and the orphans we left 
behind there, demand it. To for
get Vietnam is to forget the fal
lible humanity we share with the 
rest of humankind. It is to forget 
our capacity to do evil as well as to 
do good. And that I hope is unac
ceptable.
The Barbershop Quartet sings high praises to local barbers
! By RAJESH V. PUTCHA
! Tartan Staffwriter 
i & WASEEM HUSSAIN
; Tartan Staffwriter
 Editors note: This is the final 
\ part of a two part series, in which 
I four people go out and try to find 
the best place to get a haircut in 
the Pittsburgh area. We sincerely 
hope that you will be able to find 
a barber that suits your style.
Mikes Barber Shop
Looking for a good haircut by 
"hands as gentle as the caress of 
' your mother? Mikes Barber Shop 
. on Corey Avenue in Oakland has 
what you are looking for. I had 
heard about Mikes Barber Shop 
from my friends. My first cut by 
Mikes was impressive enough to 
bring me back there every time I 
get my hair cut in Pittsburgh.
Even though Mikes Barber 
Shop is a one man operation, 
manned by Mike himself, the 
unmistakable feeling of a family 
atmosphere fills the air in the 
quaint, two chair establishment.
Located near McDonalds on 
Forbes, Mikes is a manageable 
ten minute walk from campus. 
Mike has been around the barber 
business for about forty years, 
and proudly displays the docu
mentation of being a certified bar
ber along with a nostalgic picture 
of him and his mentor.
When you arrive, he greets you 
with a warm hello. Throughout 
his shop, Mike places a variety of 
interesting magazines to occupy 
the time, which usually is only
about fifteen minutes  conven
iently, no reservations are re
quired. Mike has a fatherly na
ture and from just a few initial 
questions knows exactly how to 
cut your hair as you like it. He 
indulges you with conversation 
as he delicately snips here and 
trims there and if probed enough 
will relate stories of Pittsburghs 
change over the years. Not being 
from Pittsburgh, I found these 
anecdotes most interesting. His 
natural Italian accent adds a 
unique flavor to the shop. His 
fingers glide ever so smoothly 
through your hair as does his 
comb, which he then uses to set 
up his scissors. The scissors pre
cisely and unerringly finish the 
job. When he handed me a mirror 
to inspect his performance, I could 
clearly see a job well done.
At a cost of only $8.50, Mikes 
Barber Shop somehow adds an
other enticement for me. So, if 
you are looking for a good cut, a 
reasonable price, and a friendly
atmosphere, Mikes Barber Shop 
is highly recommended.
Mikes Barber Shop: 649 Corey 
Avenue in Oakland; phone num
ber, 271-9703.
Hair USA
RESEARCH PAPERS
dcqy8S na CPaaLi fba9 H om Lgk7iCnL 
:bMib honomaU ,aMoO nenP eLoVh ab h:F 
,:pp G0 T:,p;41 S//HvtdH/yyy
Or rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Ave., 206-SN Los Angeles.CA 90025
WORSHIP WITH QUAKERS
!l on arc invited to join us in our 
silent worship 
and our witness for 
peace and social justice 
10:30 am Sundays
4836 Ellsworth Avenue
RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF 
FRIENDS
Beta Zeta chapter ofXattttoa
lbiLirnL nPi
Third Annual
na kirifen nPi
United Cerebral Palsy Rssociation
On Nouember 10th twenty Pilam chapters from around the 
nation will be Inuoding Pittsburgh to raise money for UCPR.
PLEASE HELP SV DONATING AT A FENCE NEAR. YOU
Its important to make a dis
tinction between a hair salon and 
a barber shop. In barber shops 
the fulfillment of getting a hair 
cut is a function of how many 
ounces of hair are on the ground. 
Hair salons are different, though. 
In hair salons the emphasis is 
more on style. Hair USA is such a 
place.
It takes about thirty minutes to 
get there from the intersction of 
Morewood and Forbes. Just walk 
up Forbes Avenue towards Squir
rel Hill, and then take a right on 
Murray Avenue. Hair USA is 
about five minutes down the street 
from Giant Eagle.
You get a haircut and a sham
poo for just $9, which makes Hair 
USA one of the most inexpensive 
places you can go. The place itself 
is extraordinarily ordinary for a
hair salon. Its decorated with 
mobiles of women with all sorts of 
hairdos, intermingled amongst a 
spattering of GQ-ish men and 
plants hanging from the roof.
Hair USA wants to be Your 
Family Hair Care Center, and it 
shows in the clientele who go 
there. There was a father with his 
young son, a lady with her mom, 
a college student, and a local kid 
from the neighborhood, all of 
whom seemed very comfortable 
with the place, which gave it a 
really nice John-Cougar-Mellancampish-My-Home-Town type 
feel.
The haircut itself was pretty 
good. The stylist was quite pleas
ant and she made it a point to 
thoroughly understand what kind 
of haircut I wanted.
You dont part your hair, do
you, she asked. I said I do, and 
brushed it the way I usually brush 
it. Oh... so you kinda flop it over 
to one side, she said in a WhoThe-Hell-Styles-Their-HairThat-Way tone of voice. Gawd, 
you have long bangs, she said. 
She told me that she could tell 
that I usually had my hair thinned 
out because it was thinner at the 
end and thicker towards the cen
ter.
The in-depth analysis of my hair 
structure was quite enlightening, 
and I came away from the whole 
experience feeling a little better 
about myself and my hair. In the 
final analysis, thats all that re
ally counts anyway, right?
Hair USA: 2111 Murray Ave
nue in Squirrel Hill; phone num
ber, 521-2250.
SALE 25% Off All Products !
TRISUKESHAPAUL MITCHELL 
SEBASTIANREDKENNEXXUS
A FEW EXAMPLES OF THE SAVINGS:
Nexxus Therappe Shampoo (8 oz.)
Reg. $4.50 Sale $3.37
Sebastian Shaper Hair Spray
Reg. $6.80 Sale $5.10
Paul Mitchell Awapuhi Shampoo (8 oz.)
Reg. $4.35 Sale $3.26
Sukesha Normalizing Shampoo (6 oz.)
Reg. $2.79 Sale $2.21
Sukesha Moisturizing Shampoo (6 oz.)
Reg. $3.50 Sale $2.63
i Must Present
Coupon
i
S Expires 11-30-89
1 
INO OTHER OFFERS
I APPLY 
I
813 S. Aiken 
Shadyside 682-4063
sntonquid 
whyrrfr 
ollmbfygalp frbk
WASHINGTON  NEW YORK  LONDON  PARIS  GENEVA  SINGAPORE 
Cordially invites you to a presentation on
Opportunities in Management Consulting
Please join Richard Noll, Manager, and other members of 
SPAs professional staff at Carnegie Mellon University:
Monday, November 13, 1989 
Skibo, Room 12 
7:00 p.m.
An informal discussion and reception will follow.
Interested 1990 graduates 
submit resumes and transcripts to: 
Career Services and Placement
November 27 - December 15, 1989

---------------------------------------------------

ps,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
REACH FDRTHEBEST
HI! Letraset T-Shirt 
w/Purchase of any 3 shts of 
Letraset Instant or 
Letragraphica Lettering
------------------------,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------iAssorted column ideas that never made it to the paper
lPana kO ,Pa9oL 4eCPamL u
The people danced all night and had tons of fun for charity. Saturday night, Kappa Kappa Gamma and; 
Phi Kappa Theta sponsored a dance marathon in Thistle Gym. According to Jill Winer, Philanthropy: 
Chairman of Kappa Kappa Gamma, the name was misleading. Instead of an all-night dance-till-you-drop 
contest, the event was a night of dancing, music, food, and crazy contests. The contests ranged from 
the limbo to a 50s dance contests to an originality contest. All the proceeds from the ticket and t-shirt 
sales, which totaled $3,225, went to benefit the Make-A-Wish Foundation.The bands Tumbling Dice and 
The Shift were on hand to play, and refreshments were donated by Coke, Pepsi, Dominos, Taco Bell, 
and TCBY.
C ttiiu,
By J. GRILLO-MARXUACH
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the most interesting 
aspects of writing a weekly col
umn  apart from constantly 
having to expose myself to all 
sorts of hideous, life-threatening 
perils in order to bring you the 
most stirring sensational stories 
possibleis the sheer number of 
ideas that never quite make it 
into the column. Some of them 
are too short, others too whimsi
cal and others just too stupid and 
half-baked to merit seeing the 
light of day. With this caveat in 
mind I would like to present a 
sampling of ideas which havent 
quite made it as columns but have 
thankfully surfaced in time to save 
me from another deadline.
Today, during a tour of the 
Houses of Parliament, I made a 
startling discovery: that the word
cop, a term which I have casu
ally used all my life, is actually an 
acronym for constable on patrol. 
I was stunned, though not as 
stunned as I was when I conse
quently discovered that constable 
on patrol is itself an acronym for 
consolidated organized national 
statewide territorial amalga
mated bilateral linked enterprisingofficers navigatingparalegally 
active targets  refrain or lan
guish.
1992 appears to be shaping up 
to be a banner year for the whole 
of Europe. Not only is the unifica
tion of the European Economic 
Community, the Olympic Games 
in Barcelona, and the opening of 
Euro-Disneyland somewhere in 
the outskirts of Paris going to 
make Europe a truly exciting place 
in which to live, but there is also 
the added solace that can be drawn 
from the knowledge that the 
charter of the Spanish inquisi
tion will at long last expire in the 
year in question. It truly warms 
my heart to be secure in the Eu
rope will at last be a safe haven 
for pole vaulting heretics who wish 
to cross international boundaries' 
in order to see The Country Bear 
Jamboree.
I have discovered a bizarre 
twist. Although British Kit-Kat 
bars taste the same as American 
Kit-Kat bars, British Kit-Kat bars 
are wrapped vertically. The thin 
end of the candy bar are covered 
by the red wrapping while in the
American Kit-Kat bars it is the 
fat end of the candy bar that is 
covered by the wrapper. Its all 
fun and games when American 
candy bars are wrapped widthwise and English candy bars are 
wrapped length wise Ijusthope 
none of these amusing little 
anomalies decide to pop out should 
England and the United States 
ever decide to build a trans-atlantic tunnel by having each nation 
dig from their side and meet each 
other at the center.
Recently, I saw a commercial 
which disturbed me. A man is 
dared to eat all of the items on a 
restaurant menu. After he has 
eradicated every item on the menu 
it is discovered that he has eaten 
everything but that other cola. 
The man refuses to drink that 
other cola, claiming that he only 
drinks Pepsi, and loses the wa
ger. The moral? Pepsi  the taste 
of America. Excuse me, but on 
behalf of those Americans whose 
decision to consume Pepsi is not 
based on nationalistic or social 
pride but rather which can is clos
est to the refrigerator door, I would 
like to extend my warmest and 
sincerest thanks to the Pepsi Cola 
company for perpetuating this 
much-needed positive vision of 
America. I would also like to 
suggest some alternative adver
tising slogans which may accom
pany future advertising cam
paigns Gluttony  the vice of 
America, America: gluttons, but
tasteful gluttons, America: go 
ahead and hate us  were better 
than you and finally the sublime 
America: we invented the bomb. 
The biggest social and cultural 
fear of these days seems to be a 
fear of homogeneity. Somehow, 
national governments, scholars, 
and intellectuals ofthe world seem 
to have contracted this fear that
with a security guard. He ex
plained to me, in great detail, the 
great number of things which are 
wrong with this country, relating 
the vast bulk of them to the long
haired, hippie, liberal, college 
kids (he obviously had mistaken 
me for a middle-aged business 
man and felt he could speak 
freely).
After we finished our invigorat
ing and informative colloquy, I 
was pleased to see two young boys 
playing tag, with typical youthful 
high-spiritedness, right next to 
my chair. Im really just a big kid 
at heart, and couldnt help but 
join in the fun by giving them 
each a number of playful raps 
about their little heads.
Im sorry to say that I must 
have worn the poor tots out. Inex
plicably, after only forty-five 
minutes of this horseplay, they 
were both unconscious. Their 
stitches will come out next week.
Finally, it was time to board the 
bus. The fun and games started 
soon after we had left the termi
nal. When the bus began to make 
a noise somewhat akin to a cat
Jason travels to Baltimore by his favorite mode of transporation
By JASON LEE SMITH
Tartan Staffwriter
Now you may talk of root ca
nals, of open heart surgery, or of 
keel-hauling, but for an activity 
which gives more, sheer, unadul
terated enjoyment, give me a bus 
trip any day.
Yes, call me old-fashioned, but 
for me, theres not one thing which 
can quite compare with a ride in a 
humble prairie gondola.
What brought me around to this 
way of thinking? How did I be
come such an advocate of bus 
transportation? Listen carefully 
and Ill tell you.
Recently, I decided to travel to 
my home in Baltimore, via The 
Bus. Eagerly anticipating this 
monotonous journey, I arrived at 
the bus depot at 5 am in the morn
ing, a good two and a half hours 
before my departure time. This 
afforded me an ideal opportunity 
to observe, and talk to, many of 
the fascinating people who inhabit 
a bus terminal before dawn.
I spent a good half-hour deeply 
involved in a political discussion
placed in a washing machine (a 
noise which I dont usually asso
ciate with busses), our driver was 
forced to pull over. Exhibiting a 
knowledge of machinery which 
would have dwarfed Edison, he 
gave us a detailed explanation of 
the problem.
He told us, Its broke. While 
waiting for a repairman, my fel
low passengers amused me with 
stories about their favorite bus 
tragedies. Oddly enough, all the 
busses which they mentioned 
made noises exactly like those
which our bus had so recently 
been making  right before they 
blew up, drove off a cliff, or simply 
vanished in a puff of smoke. This 
eased my mind to no end.
Finally, a repairman came. He 
puttered around under the hood 
of the bus for about five minutes, 
evidently saw that our bus was a 
hopeless wreck, and then left us 
to fend for ourselves.
Im sure my fellow passengers 
must have felt extremely lucky to 
have such an alert young man on 
board their bus. Using the old 
eagle eyes which earned me the 
nickname, Old Eagle Eyes, I 
looked out for any possible me
chanical failures. Whenever I 
thought I had spotted one, I would 
loudly let the driver know about 
it. This so endeared me to the 
other passengers that they sug
gested that I ride someplace where 
I would be in a better position to 
spot potential errors, such as the 
roof. It was kind of them, but due 
to the nippy temperatures, I de
clined.
Whilst traveling through the 
mountains, I became conscious of
a conspiracy. I was looking out 
the window at the scenery when 
my in stin cts told me th at we must 
be in West Virginia. I have never 
been to West Virginia, but Ive 
learned over the years to trust my 
instinct implicitly. Obviously, the 
bus driver was misdirecting our 
bus for his own sinister purposes 
which I felt must involve white 
slavery, branding irons, and pos
sible communist connections.
I decided to voice my suspicions, 
discreetly to the other passen
gers.
Boy, I said to the woman sit
ting next to me, this sure looks 
like West Virginia. I sure hope 
were not being kidnapped. She 
gave me a smile which people 
only seem to use around me, and 
then went back to her knitting.
I decided to take matters into 
my own hands before it was too 
late. Jumping on my seat, I 
shouted, Follow me, this is our 
only hope for freedom! and tried 
to force open the emergency win
dow. I almost got it, too, before 
some of the other passengers 
restrained me.
My efforts were not for nothing, 
because as soon as I made my 
escape attempt, the charlatan at 
the wheel, realizing that the jig 
was up, put us back on cours. 
And after only two minutes, I sayv 
a Maryland road sign.
Finally, and too soon for my 
tastes, our amusing little jaunt 
was at an end. We had made it to 
Baltimore. The journey hadmade 
a new man of me. My parents, 
greeting me at the depot, com
mented how the trip had changed 
me, saying it looked like it hdld 
aged me twenty years. This effect 
was enhanced by the healthy 
shade of white which my hair had 
turned.
Next holiday, Ill be going home 
again. However, this time I think 
Ill take a more traditional method 
of transportation, a horse. The 
motorbus, though filled with inter
esting diversions, is just a fad arid 
wont be around very long, espe
cially if I have anything to say 
about it.
Jason Lee Smith is a freshmaji 
in CIT.
SPECIAL OFFER
SAVE! $4.00
* Letraset Standard Instant 
k Lettering for Only $7.95.
JACK LEMMON-TED DANSON
Sometimes, the greatest man you ever meet..the first one
xiKao  a ihhi ohub us di I V
OPENS FRIDAY AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU.
multinational conglomerates, 
cultural apathy, the development 
of shopping malls and the rise of 
the consumer society will turn 
our world into the kind of society 
where anybody could walk into a 
MacDonalds in any major city of 
the planet and orderthe same Big 
Mac as every other person in every 
other city. I dont think this fear is
groun ded on any real  oh, sorry, 
gotta go, Dominos Pizza delivers 
fast and free  even in London.
Thats it for now. Coming soon, 
a full-baked report direct from 
Paris ... France.
Javi is a junior professional 
writing major who is spendirig 
the semester in London.
Store Hours: Monday thru Friday - 8:45 - 5:30 Saturday - 9:30- 5:30c/vppy & Co. Inc. 323 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, PA 15222 (412)281-2133
Carnegg iMnlo Uvs arnegg ty,PbMuh iVmmrv 84 IoVVy 9ykggkMvuVd
Ted Danson has never been better and Olympia Dukakis outdoes her role in Moonstruck!
-Pal ColDns. YVWOR.TV
 Experience the range and 
quality of Letraset Typography 
- over 650 typefaces.
 Just show your valid student 
I.D. and buy standard instant 
lettering for $7.95
 No limitations. No fine print.
FILLED WITH LIFE AND JOY, DAD IS A VERY RARE FILM.
A towering achievement for Jack Lemmon! - Rex Reed, at the movies
APPLAUSE FORDAD
Itt original, moving, witty and truthful!- Daphne Davis, WOMAN MAGAZINE
JACK LEMMON AND OLYMPIA 
DUKAKIS ARE SENSATIONAL
These are two of the best performances 
of the year!-Lisa Karlin, ABC RADIO
FUNNY AND 
HEART-WARMING, 
DADHAS GOT IT ALL
Easily one of the best movies 
of the year. Its a movie 
you wont soon forget!- Neil Rosen. WNCN RADIO

---------------------------------------------------

HUM AM  GOING TO DO 
about ms REPORT OH 
BATS? lOU'VE GOT TO
Bd+S'- BuSs
TO FW, RiGUT? 
TO'RE UGL1 ANO HMW, 
RIGHT? C'MoH, 
THIS \S TAKING 
V ALL DM /
jx
~J.~P ubli~sh ~Jl ~edl
VE ADO AN INTRODVJCTTOU, 
A FEW ILLUSTRATIONS, AND 
A CONCLUSION, IT YHIL 
LOOK L\fc A GRADUATE 
THESIS.
E;FEq ;& .: B 
Eh0, xBA:4 ,TB, x;pp 
GUARANTEE V B .::F 
.0BF  4: 
,BhT0 hB4 
0EE, THIS.
U\ SOSIE\ '{EAH, I 
DID VOU SPENT ALL 
WR\TE SOOR LAST EVENING 
REPORT? J OH IT. DID
WELL, WHEN SOVJ V--------^
KNOW AS MUCH [ \5 
AS r DO, IT MINUTES?.
yClPia~ ~.rl .P n bl~P
LONG. MINE T03K\ SEE.
about is mms.y^y
Q3
I GUESS foU 
WONT BE. SETTING 
THE GRADE CURSE 
THIS TIME, SUSIE! 
READ IT AND 
Y4EEP.
ViUM CALVIN, WHAT A SURPRISE 
TO SEE HW VOLUNTEER..' W 
MUST HAVE DcNE A (3D JOB. 
GO TO THE FtoNT Of THE CUSS.
NON LETS^ Ail m 
ATTENTION 
GO AHEAD, 
CALVIN.
TUf^NK 1CW. BEWRE 
I BEGIN, ID U< 
EVERYONE TO 
NOTICE THAT W 
REPORT \S IN A 
PROFESSIONAL, 
CLEAR PLASTIC 
BINDER.
WHEN A REPORT 
LOOKS THIS 
GOOD, XOJ KNOW 
IT'LL GET AN 
rA'. THATS A 
TIP, WDS. WRITE 
e~ Down
" DUSK!W\TH ACREEPH,TIN
GLING sensation, 'too wear the 
FLUTTERING OF LEATHERS WW5! BATS.' WITH GLQWNG RED 
E1ES AND GLISTENING FAHG5, \ 
THESE UNSPEAKABLE GIANT ; 
BUGS ORdP ONTO..
BKTS ARENT
BUGS!.'/, |. 111 *\'x \
LTK, VJUOsT CALVIN, 
GIVING THE \ ID LIKE 
REPORT? fOJ TO SEE 
CUOWDERHEADS fOU A 
...OR ME?/ L MOMENT.
AS YOU PIG OUT, YOU W0NP6R 
IF YOU'LLEVERBE THE SAME, 
IF YOUR WEAMS HAVEPERJSHEP 
ALONG mH YOUR. ILLUSIONS.
BUT THEN YOUR COMMUNITY . Tarrt nCoibugEd Ne ws &Sf 
A p9sTeitg .1 si90uL.Et I.a 
A 1ws. u.Tt3 NsTN tisti nuNn 
t.Hiu.e I.a ewrrm taE cM ci 
Nrrnuwtddd
^PYARRIV^JNWEE^^
I CANT BEJJEVE THEY GOT 
YOU OUT OF THERE, MAN! 
YOU'RE ONE LUCKY DUPE!
1 ^ WHY PONT 
I FEEL 
LUCKY?
YOU'RE LUCK/. ALL RIGHT! A 
WHOLE HOUSZ FELL ON YOU, 
MAM! AN PALL YOU PIP 15 
BREAK YOUR ARM! C'MON, 
SfT UP, GOTTA TAKE AN X-RAY.
EASY...EASY...
HEY. ACE!
,f56&8J\ Kl6,yW53
OF YOU! DOC !
YOU'RE SUPPOSED
TO BE BACK ON YOUR
FEET THESE PAYS,
ANPY! H/HAT&VES* I GOT. /A BUSTED
{sf* ^
ARM. ANP
TWOBROKEN
RJBS.
\
lr
DAMN, THIS 
DISEASE IS 
CONFOiJNPING!
HELLO? ACTUALLY. I WAS 
MAY I HON PER]NG IF I 
HELP COULP HELP YOU. 
YOU ? ANPY. I'M ANGELA
JAN IS, FROM THE
/ TRAUMA J;
CENTER. /
GLAD TO TM AFRAID SO,
HtUnI.a NsCId nuwt ShZ 
Ns0irN1 BEEN A TERRIBLE 
YOU MUST tXPeRJWCBFOR 
05 A BUSY A LOT OF PEOPLELAPY \
THESE 
PAYS.
IN THE PAYS AHEAP. YOU MAY 
START TO FEEL PEFRE&SED OR 
ANXIOUS OR EVEN GUILT/ OVER 
HAVING SURVIVE P. THATS WHY 
I'M HERE -TO OFFER ANY 
COUNSELING 
YOU MAY \
ANDY. AN EARTHQUAKE 
CAN BE AN EMOTIONAL-, 
SHATTERING EXPERIENCE, 
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'VE 
LOST YOUR HOME AS YOU ' HAVE...
MAN ALWE 
( CAN VOU BEUBE 
WHAT tAH TEACUER 
k WROTE ON M RETORT?
SHE SA^S 1 OBVIOUSLH DID 
HO RESEARCH WHATSOEVER 
ON BATS AND THAT M 
SCIENTIFIC. ILLUSTRATION 
LOOKS LIKE I TRACED THE 
BATMAN LOGO AND ADDED
CAMCc:
EVENING,I MUST
ANDREW.BE. I
HANGINGJUST SUR-IIN THERE?VIVED MY
TRAUMA
j
THERAPY
\
i3)
QiV
YOURANGELA JAN IS? 
WHAT * WM THE CENTER ? ' SHE'S ACTUALLY
WATT A MINUTE.
YOU'RE GETTING YEAH. 
TRAUMA COUNYOU THINK 
SELING AS WELL ITS TOO 
AS AlPS COUNHEAVY A
SELING * LOAD *
I THINK
TCO/iov JUST TAKE
FRENCH LES' 
SONSINSTEAP.
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.Dooncsbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.

---------------------------------------------------

NDERCOVER/
$<2> 'i
THIF yoO T*2^VJ \T, 
ITS ST\\_J_ LIFE
IP YaJ C^T DeKVJ ph o
XT 'S N&STRtSC-TIF >toU UWU VT -TO tb yDanGo IF* ^OO ^-T IT ON TV^E-, tF ViDO VhJ&fcJZ. VT,
ITS \^STNUUKT\CA -Plg^g. ITS ATECF^etAfM^E. -plE^t ITS K STAcrTE.ME-^T'
^  i'-v"
iJF V>0 I^2AUi IT /^dO^Teuy, XF you FVUM 'T ,
;, E mp5B*E,mye, &/d 5,&E w ZQ*pQ*=KTH Bn*
Ca Iaa Lepgglb bbq
ITS fs 3-t> EFMZES&m*T'C*\
<T -V -
s=-yaJ Junnior Mr ochaelGd yco IF VoO 6ET wsMky -t=oe. Mrd Mo MrJ HOPELESS t_y 
Sst( N^-rutseD. i-ps. E3s&t4 MrJ pfesi^u JJhrmtejc.... MrJ
snraamN U.Sj
Ho'o WO,^ vjid).ioc^ 'jo* '*ji.n\ ifl las'i
WeH,"^ o^ir^r i^nd bomjuA..
:.u T cau^\t "train ou^ of "iowo
Ow,Pue^sepLPtsepLeAse /Vip.
SlR G-P-eAvT WDfOOe^FUL 
niorWMchWc CCrsXT Goo CsP TMC 
Uf^l'/e-Rs.^ W|2:P(f^D> suPErRCoMPirre^ An^ew?
Weu_/ nou H-A^e to par 
IN vour, passvj ORO. s. 
Password? v ) 
Yep\\-\, wife's opuds 
/VV^cke^ie is -me 
Antichr\stt. "
nK MOuOi^Gr VOUR PROfrRA/VI 
hoS'T/qG-G! What's, the 
password^ lowlv PceBeiArJ 
HO aaaM SOJ/v-i I.
f?fe>w yae hlGdStURemBeRe's
VOJP, PP.OGr'RA/VN.
Mev, VOU ICnJOW TUIS V.S. 
RB^t-OV PR^TTV eASNi
gyU aea ev/eRWOME...
Ity cfffe: , fsR, peex, Ge^y, &
20wpGyAjEb NoGNPEonvW qFm
37 wooi'MS ZTIYAS 
A,1 JrO'i?~-/l BoV/ [V\A151MS-S.
H Av/E M O f^JC>0 OP HU/Mopi

---------------------------------------------------

By gIMJrMp MPe
4H, rrSTHATTiiie of ye/lR. 
THe -H SHlNlNQ.THC. 
WAtiKTepitL.. aved inrvwt 
A BLOOMIf''.- 
B,g0e IN ;,E Finesr Ff*t, 
TtfOCReATKReS WITIAJGi 
iKHAHMOtfy...
THAT BUSSFUL,rxilfAT< 
Mowerfr, utficwe. 
4ut> speeiAiW
i
r^oV\v\ W----
Lou-knee.
\\\i ds 
00
'^_OYx-\<^C
By Lou Henry
qPJl1Ra rs JyE1PZRe
The
Far
Side
ByGaryLarson
\hPeif LoOq :Pq OioP? RRR ):J0 PabLi gUmOR[&
{:D+ 4aMar'n 9aIiq BrMO+RRR Tibi Ca9iL Va9+\{; -ageHr'n Ma nPonq 9eLnibRRR :mM iiD&L meokmi na febi 
nPon LgCDib glR[
{;n'L nbgiq obkobo RRR )ag'bi nPi febLn -a9or ;'Ii 
iIib kbagUPn PibiR[

---------------------------------------------------

Ottio\JS</ I
5pewrte> I 
(jy
/v\iite I s^* +TUt C\^CLE
jtfyouVe bee* foilo'*'>yy J0e s 
la^v/eotVfeS TM F*^, cba.mc$ 
icx tlaul y^ ^iKclo live P\& 
jWttar) ov\ly hv.\le a V/CStijini/ 
J civA/xTe^e5S 0y whaj 5- g<?iri<? >njTUj, Piyfflir wt
Itnre. -time +*> rei*stt>i?e.
3c'ri. 'omcKcovJ
Joe -the Circle
OW
'S .
ftonriie ,.
+f>a^3(c.
-W5 coi^p^ni?^
Bert Smerr 
An oy prirJ
oi i>e
CAiie^ty")
|Q; vJhoCTf <^o\r)a on? M QvJe$i*nl
; oe is c^5e> 6y . t+rye afp-A; 
1 (if hoS-hlt, SWip5 o.fttr 9+(in5 i 
i oVP'tcphdonic $>ft boar ) ffiw , 
;tViT Tr\K(Cifl.. . !
Jce el -' 
pe<^
/vc^0-10.
|once There, ger-r inTTtfeW5 ot \ 
it0 The ha.ppi'e.5,, (x. rceoF 
|cfe<\-n/r5 wy0 ace eterei*/
 hapPy c(.bavT e'/eryT^ta} , r'o, 
XlvoS'n^ eauh. Joe. fS +olc) 1><td 
! ke mvfT ^i6lP 5.*/e Tht-^V 
i Pf regions -S op/et Afe v0c^!
Q; \w oftS )oe c~rry Sntfi?|
In The. AtSence. of w'/ j
/StMA MmM, oe? Tetc h.$ i
\3/jf e\Jo\.\itJ a. limiti pMVn j
A/eTe^ of: 'f&lePineSij F*r 7V<, i
w --------------------------------------i
TW OskiU E V>ll fs 6^7
5ob *> * fcota", of)e f ! 
orce op e'tef^My j
beings wviose voca.b'Jhfy i
i QoflStStS of T*ie cSgb.wV j
! 6er-r Sv^err ftn ow Friert at j 
jioO am Ve 5 fn TV prov^rW*/ | 
i^icK O5 -timea-r\d Ce^coeS Joe 1 
! by Wo-rpio^ Wm ajnd hi'5 |
j "to ex. Aei^Kfce<'i'n^ tplq^t colteci HcippyvL/fl^-
5^- '  
f$A,
i JaCj (Soooiej 0o b a-^el 8&CT
pre^enTiy R-<^
1-7 <\p p y f-ovN/io F<" Fu\(ti'
 Xp fe^n cifi'or' 
Untrrtivv/r)
; wi
/rrs HipPie 5
M-a.v U5 o 1  (,y TKe Society t* 0-ec('phe^ 
donViv/re^ Cooni'c p/oT5- : 
A/ft XT WeeK : TVie 5lP<~y artTin^!
-collegiate crossword23456 MB/89101112

17:
19
202223
2627
_293C1
313233
3
353637
38?
39
a041
,r*
44|^W546
474849
50
bJ*52I53
 Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-7
ACROSS
1 Highly-seasoned 
stew 
7 Rise
13 Smooth wood again
14 Popeye, e.g.
15 Criminal's goal 
(3 wds.)
17 Search and rob
18 Group character
istics
19 Uncle -------
20 Arrow poison
21 Anesthetic
22 Prank
23 "...- 
a cage"
24 Modify
25 Grill
26 Perfumes
28 White: Sp.
29 ------- crazy
30 Filter brand
31 Descriptive of 
sailing ships
34 Expressions of 
disgust
38 Did stage work
39 Student evaluation
40 Ms. Gardner
41 Wound mark
42 Feudal lord
43 English architect
44 Thermometer scale 
(abbr.)
45 West coast capital
46 Laughing
47 Adjusts (3 wds.)
50 Feel remorse
51 Isolates
52 Balance sheet 
section
53 Emphasize
iron bars 1
DOWN
Double-breasted
coats
2 ------- Annie
3 ------- club
4 Paddle
5 Free from restraint6 Cuts incisors
7 Actress Mary -------8 Pouches
9 Approximate date 
(abbr.)
10 A slurring over
11 Wandering
12 Rapid fluttering 
of a tone
13 Large African 
mammals
15 Threefold
16 Sonny and -------
21 Charlton Heston 
film (2 wds.)
22 O'Neill output
24 Fed the kitty
25 Hold accountable 
for
27 Organic compound
28 Wedding component
30 Scrap
31 Eye makeup
32 Acquiesces
33 P0W camps
34 Nathanael and 
Lome
35 Water bottles
36 Happenings
37 ------- Domingo
39 East Indies
woody vine
42 Endures
43 Baseball great
Maury -------
45 Let it stand
46 Tremble (obs.)
48 Beginning for 
dominent or eminent
49 Title for Olivier
These are the answers 
to last issues puzzle.
??BENDO CSSHBEai^ 
000HE3EJ0 SBOBBIE] 
EH3BDIIQQQBDBI3DC10 ??Q[9{i BDOBQ 0013 000 HQCIHQ 03000 ?00 QBDSO B000H QBBQE3Q0 BBESEJGI0 BOOB BBH13 HQ0BBGI HBOElHHHia ?BOBO BQQE1B 000 EQE3Q BDBBB E30BI3 E1BB BE80HG3 [30000 ????OBSBBSBBBilQ QBBBBO BdflBBBEl BBBBOB BOBBBB
ornrletSo, WOUUD >pu UKe ToO' i am 'X'
(auw/nBU+ -Hue pex-ceiv&v 
fer aeon 6 it Via*, toee/i 
my jot> -te -perceive ancX 
ricord o\i -thaV -trainspires on ear+Vi. -tViat 
rotaie i'rv\ +V\c only 
living being wi+Vi a 
Compile set of doctor 
Who -tapesi loave 
-take>n an oatto never -to
\Ythtr-Pere, t>ui i usually 
do anyway*. yee-VoeeV dee-Wet-dee-vn eel JJ
So it's N not a pepwTe\ No'; THEN? I
Sii1AfJhnDzeP UrR oDzbers
WATCH1M&- fa signs OP R6LUot<j\.nr suV i digress. lasM\ 
'week, darwy -fsVis did' 
riot write an episode of warped imagination,, 
bu+ in an alternate 
universe/ ver-uj wuac.W 
like tMt one,dan did 
.do a .strip--WhicVi  / A we mow 7 present
/ CV >y
1 GET SUH 
A KICK our OF 
^OA'OMATOPOCH1.
OK, SO WILL ,VbU So OUT WITH HS MM/':
OP THe o-M&v\s
TO ueveu
 ,TB,&e VLY S/.e\/EAj\
// and nowa ^ 7 SiPec/c/ bonus?at /f d anry 
Fahs were a r\fi/ 
QirI? welly WrK
ind i/on mfgVnf j 
look So met hi na I
ifa/sf A I
I FiLuec. WITH
^WHrn?THe E66& p/r\ 1
iB:Ae4.H bI PONG BAUS/ WITHIN 2o U

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
CMU Drama presents Billy Wilson's new musical.
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Stoffwriter
Choreographer and Drama 
Department faculty member Billy 
Wilson, along with Musical Di
rector Jerry Dantry, presents the 
musical revue I Hear America 
I Singingi opening this week in 
CFAs Kresge Theatre. The show 
features a cast of junior and sen
ior students of Carnegie Mellons 
musical theater department. 
Wilin conceived the idea for 
I this production, which mixes 
i poetry with musical numbers to 
celebrate America and its ideals. 
He explains, The theme is Amer
ica. And the poem by Langston 
UnghesFreedomsPlough, which 
| itsbasedon.isabouteueo'&ocfy... 
for some reason I didnt start with 
the idea of doing a patriotic show;
I just thought it might be very 
interesting to just do something 
about Americans, and not just 
(one group of Americans but 
people: women, blacks, whites, 
workers, lovers, housewives, reli
gion, war, and hopefully in a very 
unpretentious way. Im not trying 
to create a great message.
The featured poets in I Hear 
America Singing include Lang
ston Hughes and Wilsons brother, 
Ernest J. Wilson. The poets are 
primarily black writers because 
Wilson feels that too few black 
.. writers have been represented in
* America, particularly in the 
Kresge. However, he also feels 
that these particular works speak 
to all people. The thing thats so 
wonderful about it [is]... if I didnt 
_ say to anyone that these poems 
^ are by black writers they would 
never think [it].
Wilson was bom in Philadel
phia where he got his first taste of 
dance training at the Sidney Ring 
School. After graduating from 
f high school he entered the Pierce 
Business College at his parents 
suggestion. Their reasoning was 
that he would then have another 
skill to fall back on.
Ironically, the Pierce Business 
j College sits right across the street 
from the Art Alliance. Wilson 
remembers wonderingWhy am I 
sitting here with these machines 
when I can look across the street 
and look, this arts school is where 
4 I really should be. He then adds, 
But I did graduate from Pierce 
Business College  I dont know 
how, but I did ... it has come in 
handy, I mean, in the business of 
dealing with producers .... [I]n 
, show business, the business part 
i? of it is very important.
Bob Fosse directed Wilson in 
his Broadway debut, a show called 
Bells Are Ringing. Ever since his 
first job in the theater, Wilson 
t. has never found himself without 
work. In fact, in his early twen
ties he landed a role in the origi
nal production of West Side Story
I Hear fimerka Singing
Right: Junior W. Ellis Porter 
cuts loose in a dance 
number from I Hear 
America Singing.
I
Right: Director Billy Wilson looks 
on as senior Kena Tangl Dorsey 
works on a scene.
lPanaL kO wir BrMbiOaCagbniLO JreIibLenO 0imonearL
89s
Above: Senior Mark K. Lewis runs through the gamut of odd 
facial expressions in lahearsals for Billy Wilsons / Hear 
America Singing.
and following that rui, he never 
had to audition for aryone again.
Accordingto Wilson; Its botha 
blessing and a curse that I am 
often sought out to Ho things ... 
there are times I geptired.
Donald Marinelji. associate 
head of the Drama/Department, 
says that Wilsons/work here is 
only one of his raany commit
ments. He describes Wilsons 
schedule as unbelievable... Hes 
always working, join Broadway 
shows to ballets to the dance 
theater of Harlim, to choreo
graphing and directing things in 
Europe, and thfn also teaching 
here.
Wilson concedes that he does 
often spread himself very thin. 
Its just that rnese projects come 
up and I fincWm saying Oh, yes. 
That soundaexciting, and all of a 
sudden one day its Oh, you know, 
youre supposed to be here next 
week. And before I know it, Im 
there ... I ijont really plan it this 
way.
"4f least when you're doing it, you get 
lost in doing it But when you have to sit 
there, you dance every step for every
body, you say everybody's lines."
 Billy Wilson
As opening night approaches, 
Wilson is growing apprehensive. 
Having worked as a dancer for 
years, he expected that the anxi
ety he felt would be lessened the 
day that he did not actually have 
to step out on stage. Now, as a 
director arid choreographer he 
finds that those jitters are still 
there. I dont sleep at night. The 
music goes around my head. 
Sometimes I just hate the music 
because I cant sleep.
Wilson finds that watching his 
own show can be more nerveracking than performing. You sit
in the audience and you cant do 
anything about it. At least when 
youre doing it, you get lost in 
doing it. But when you have to sit 
there, you dance every step for 
everybody, you say everybodys 
lines.
Part of this anxiety comes from 
the fact that Wilson creates shows 
for CMU in the same way that he 
creates shows for Broadway or 
other professional arenas. If I 
were doing this show on Broad
way I would still be working at it 
the same way. The difference is 
that I never pretend that I am
there because I think one of the 
most important things is that this 
is an institute of learning and 
that the process must be about 
[the students] growth.
This process includes a good 
deal of experimenting. By creat
ing his own show, Wilson and the 
cast have more freedom to try 
new things. Outside of here, if 
Im creating these moments, Im 
creating these moments for a lot 
of very famous people and people 
who are accustomed to that ... 
with these students, sometimes I 
dont know that they are as con
scious of that fact  I mean, to 
have someone creating something 
for them who creates for a lot of 
professional people. I think thats 
kind of exciting.
Wilson encountered many unforseeable difficulties while work
ing on the revue. Ive had to 
become very, very creative in a 
way that I didnt think I was going 
to have to be. I had it all sort of 
mapped out what it was going to
Left: Director and 
Choreographer Billy 
Wilson confers with 
Musical Director 
Jerry Dantry.
be and then they kept saying,Oh , 
no, you cant do this, you cant do 
that, you cant do this.  
Marinelli commends Wilson for 
his contributions to Carnegie 
Mellon. Billy works fabulously 
with young people. Hes a natural 
bom teacher.
Wilson feels that hes been very 
fortunate throughout his life, 
having both a wonderful family 
and the opportunity to work with 
the best in the business. He con
cludes, Ive been very lucky. 
Yeah, thats for sure.
For th ose who are still skeptical 
about what a colossal event I Hear 
America Singing is going to be, 
Marinelli adds a final endorse
ment: Waittillyou see this show. 
Itll knock your socks off. 
Carnegie Mellon Drama 
presents I Hear America Singing, 
showing in the Kresge Theatre. 
Previews begin tomorrow and the 
show opens on Friday. For ticket 
information, call the CFA Box 
Office at x2407.
Allens Crimes and Misdemeanors is his finest film
ByA.S. GOLDMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
My roommates theory is that 
with a few small adjustments, 
\ any tragedy can become a real 
hoot. Even Hamlet can be the 
Elizabethan equivalent of a Marx 
Brothers flick with the addition 
of a few pratfalls and a squirtingflower-on-the-lapel gag: Hey 
Hamlet, use this sword [wink, 
wink], insists Laertes with an 
exaggerated gesture. Oh! This 
wine is gross' cries the queen as 
she pulls off a hilarious spit-take. 
Stuff like that  pure comedy.
Allan (my roommate) would; 
have a nice chat with Lester, an 
obnoxious sitcom producer whose 
brew for the perfect laugh is 
tragedy plus time. But how can 
you be sure youve left it in long 
enough? If it bends, its funny; if 
} it doesnt bend, its not funny  
a test Ill be sure to apply to my 
brothers overplayed tape of San
ford and Son reruns.
Woody Allen has other theories 
on the/proper relationship be
tween comedy and tragedy, many 
of which are tested in his latest 
film, Grimes and Misdemeanors. 
Never has the Great American 
Nebbish displayed such deep 
understanding of what makes 
people laugh and what makes 
them think; it is a solid founda
tion of philosophical drama high
lighted by the laughs necessary 
to keep a serious film above the 
indulgence mark.
Allens favorite topics, sex and 
death, are represented here, but 
this time the film transcends those 
motifs altogether, and they serve 
only as a basis for the questions 
Crimes struggles to answer. The 
movie is funny, but without be
traying its serious subject matter
 a delicate piece of cinematic 
juggling, considering Crimes' 
basic premise is the need for a 
moral code, or the futility of it in 
an existential perspective. Crimes 
is Allens most provocative, con
templative work, eschewingmelodrama and the didactic stance for 
a more effective combination of 
deep thought and belly laughs.
In the past decade and a half 
(from about Annie Hall on), Allen 
has run the gamut between the 
maudlin and the silly, all in an 
effort to express himself to an 
audience who would much rather 
watch Bananas than Interiors. In
teriors was the cinematic tran
scription of a successful 
filmmakers cry to be dealt with 
on a serious level; it was as if he 
was defecting to the pretentious 
intellectuals he so often mocked, 
and it was a damn depressing 
film. Since then, his output has 
suggested the stability of a lith
ium patient who keeps forgetting 
to get his prescription filled. 
Allens bout with manic depres
sive filmmaking left fans very 
confused, especially his 1988-89 
one-two of the psychological 
drama, Another Woman, and 
Oedipus Wrecks, a goofy fantasy
he contributed to New York Sto
ries. Confounded Allenophiles 
demanded to know: Drama? 
Comedy? What? Make up your 
mind alreadyhoping, of course, 
that he would choose the latter.
Allen has made his choice clear. 
It would be impossible for him to 
go back to making the riotously 
silly satires (Take the Money and 
Run, Sleeper) that brought him 
fame, yet he has not found suc
cess, commercially or artistically, 
in the serious genre (Interiors, 
September, Another Woman). At 
the crossroads, Allen created 
Crimes and Misdemeanors, a proc
lamation of his will to make the 
films he wants to make without 
bringing the audience to its knees, 
a great film.
Judah Rosenthal (Martin Lan
dau) is a man of many contradic
tions. He is honored for his phi
lanthropy, but he has embezzled 
funds. He is wealthy, but he says 
God is a luxury I cant afford. He 
is a doctor, sworn to preserving
human life, but he contemplates 
murder. Although brought up in 
a religious household, Judah has 
rejected God and does not fear 
retribution for his actions  
adultery, embezzlement, and 
worse things. Judah fears that 
there is no supreme force, no moral 
balance in the universe, and he is 
delighted to be proven right. This 
movie isnt about justice, its about 
the absence of it.
Cliff Stern (Allen) certainly 
receives none of it. Cliffs rela
tionship with his wife has just 
about lost all its steam (The last 
time I was inside a woman was 
when I visited the Statue of Lib
erty) and while he cant get work 
making documentaries, his wifes 
brother Lester (Alan Alda) rakes 
in the babes and the bucks as a 
wildly successful television pro
ducer. Ironically enough, Cliff is 
given the job of filming a show on 
Lester for public television  a 
project he reluctantly takes on 
with hilarious results. In the
process, sexual tension develops 
between Cliff, Lester and Hailey 
(Mia Farrow), a production assis
tant. In the end, as Cliff points 
out to his niece, great depth and 
smoldering sensuality dont al
ways win.
The movies philosophical fla
vor comes from three sources: 
Conversations between Judah 
and the gentle rabbi, Ben (Sam 
Waterson), Judahs flashbacks 
from youth, and films Cliff has 
shot of an old philosophy profes
sor, Louis Levy. The conversa-: 
tions shed light on Judahs rea
soning behind how he deals with 
his hysterical mistress (Anjelica 
Huston), and pit his atheistic 
views against Bens conviction 
that life would be unbearable 
without the belief that there was 
some moral structure in the 
scheme of things. The decision 
Judah makes to take care of his 
unstable lover causes him to re
consider Gods existence (Withcontinued on page L10

---------------------------------------------------

p;:,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Finding import releases is sometimes challenging
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Ex were amazing, Bullet 
LaVolta were great, my neck 
hurts, and Im way behind in all 
my classes. Its obviously time to 
go buy records.
Lots of excellent imports have 
been showing up in local record 
stores as of late. The prices run 
from eight to twelve bucks, de
pending on the store. Bargainhunting isnt such a great idea, 
though, considering the limited 
nature of these records  if you 
wait to find a better price, you 
might not find it at all. This is 
consumerism in its highest form, 
folks.
A lot of the great imports that 
are appearing are actually reis
sues of rare out-of-print Ameri
can releases. A West German
Funkadelic fan club has re-released Funkadelics debut LP, 
which has been both out of print 
and impossible to find forever. 
This is where it all started  
Funkadelic, Parliament, George 
Clinton, Bootsy CollinB, the whole 
shebang.
Just about everyone in the Top 
Forty owes something to these 
groups, and if you have the slight
est interest in funk or things 
funky, you need this record. (A 
newsletter from the fan club hints 
at further Funkadelic reissues. 
One can only hope.)
Another batch of reissues have 
come from Glitterhouse, another 
West German label. The latest 
thing to show up from these guys 
is a reissue of the first four singles 
from Halo Of Flies called Singles 
GoingNowhere. The album jacket 
follows the Buzzcocks theme (you
very punk rock 
band from Minneapolis who have 
managed to figure 
out the proper pro
portions of grunge 
and oomph to cre
ate some very tasty 
rock indeed. The 
material on Sinknow, their singles collection, gles Going Nowhere is all mustcalled Singles Going Steady) with 
lovely pictures of the fine fellows 
in the band, which you may or 
may not want to see.
The record is the same as the 
cassette that came out a while 
back compiling Halo Of Flies first 
7 releases, which existed in depressingly small numbers and 
were exceptionally hard to find. 
For those of you not in the know, 
Halo Of Flies are (or maybe were
 breakup rumors are flying) a
have stuff, in whatever format 
you can get it. (Halo Of Flies also 
have a new 7 out, calledDeaf/i Of 
A Fly, that may be their last. Get 
it while you can.)
But enough of old stuff. Blast 
Firsthas finally released their inhouse compilation, called Noth
ing Short of Total War, and a fine 
compilation it is, too. Blast First 
is an English label that releases 
both their own stuff as well as 
stuff from smaller American la
bels like Touch And Go and SST. 
Full of new or hard to find stuff by 
bands like Head Of David, Sonic 
Youth, Rapeman, and Ut, their 
record provides a good, and rela
tively cheap, initiation for any
one unfamiliar with the new wave 
of noise. All of the bands on the 
compilation have other wax out, 
much of which is available domesticallyfor cheap, andthesongs 
on the record are fairly represen
tative. If you like whats on the 
compilation, youll probably like 
whats on the groups respective 
albums.
For you collector types, the 
record is available as an LP, as a 
CD with extra tracks and no 
spaces between anything, or as a 
boxed set of seven inchers with 
extra stuff and a lovely red velour 
box (and a $40 price tag). Take 
your pick. While youre in the
store, you can pick up more good 
stuff, like the new Killdozer Lp 
the new Butthole Surfers LP, aj 
the new Fire Party LP. What the 
hell, vinyl before food. i
Coming to town this week: tit 
night, Camper Van Beethoven is 
at the Metropol for an eighteen 
and over show; Thursday, Black 
Spot will be at the Upstage along 
with Lesser Apes and the debut, 
performance of Thumper; ATS 
Guaracha, and the Dub Squad 
will be playing an El Salvador 
benefit in the Frick Fine Arts 
Building on Friday; Arcane De., 
vice, Powder French, and Mi-i 
noizeniv will be at th Turmoil 
Room on Saturday; Soundgarden 
will be at the Upstage next Mon
day. Have a nice day.
Dan Bidwa is a senior writing 
major and the music director o/i 
WRCT-FM.
Crimes and Misdemeanors redeems 
Allens filmmaking track record
CarnergiM fba9 loUi pc
out God the world is a cesspool.), 
but it smacks of guilty conscience.
The sparks of memories are also 
revealing. In one interestingflashback, Judah returns to a Passover 
seder which is the scene of a terri
fic theological battle. Judahs 
father and his Aunt May argue 
over whether there is punishment 
for sin, and whether we look to 
God for morality or to ourselves. 
These are the issues Crimes deals 
with, and the film offers ambiva
lent solutions.
Without a doubt, though, the 
most interesting philosophy in 
the film is Professor Levys. Levy, 
who comes to us only through 
Cliffs films of him, is keen to
point out paradoxes in religion 
and love, and insists that we 
define ourselves by the choices 
we make, a thought germane to 
Judahs predicament. The over
all optimism of Levys outlook is 
partofthemoviescrushingirony, 
but it also provides the narrative 
at the movies end with a beauti
ful twinkle of hope. The uni
verse, says Levy, is a pretty cold 
place. Cold, that is, until we fill it 
up with whatever warmth we can 
muster.
The cast is responsible for the 
facility with which Crimes gets 
through its subject matter. Lan
dau is at times endearing and 
haunting as the ambivalent Ju
dah, while Waterson, as his foil
Ben, deserves special recognition 
for his tender portrayal of the 
blinding rabbi. The scarier side of 
love and obsession is chillingly 
brought to life by Anjelica Huston 
as Judahs crazed lover.
On the other hand, Hailey, as 
played by Farrow, is the cool face 
of love; she distances herself from 
her affection in an effort to pro
tect herself.
Finally, there are Allen and 
Alda, two men who work bril
liantly together  Allen as the 
enduring loser and Alda as the 
insufferable winner. Allen is still 
the best person he has ever cast.
At the films end, Cliff and Ju
dah meet. They are diametrically 
opposed on the universal scale of
welcome back
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
SKVUXii PARTY
Schenley Ice Rink
monday, november 13 
7-9 pm\
j/ \ * \
free refreshments courtesy of \
\
\f/\Roy Rogers
\?/
$1 including skate rental 
w/ valid college ID
Roy
sponsored byOooers and Quarks/
" I8 0E,BJ0B4, /
_Z_
things, and their discussion is 
short. Judah offers Cliff a story of 
a heinous crime and Cliff insists 
that it would work better as a 
tragedy  if the guilty party 
turned himself in. Cliff reasons 
that if there is no God, then man 
must take on the responsibility of 
morality himself. Judah scoffs at 
this notion, and leaves Cliff with 
this advice: You want a happy 
ending, go see a Hollywood movie.
Allen hasnt lost his touch for 
irony.
Woody Allens latest film, 
Crimes and Misdemeanors, is 
currently playing in the Pitts
burgh area. Check local listings 
for showtimes.
lPana kO beor To9emm?dcSc ,agCPLnari AeCngbiLH 
Actor, director, writer Woody Allen produces a masterwork with Crimes 
and Misdemeanors.
Senior Portraits
Next week...
November 13-17
RSVPW IT HTEW C/WF 
ANKV oy NTar ThT IVES RTsk
TODAY!
Dont Miss it!
Funded by the Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Jethro Tulls Rock Island stands out in retro-rock
|y MIKE SHAPIRO
'artan Staffwriter
The coming of the 80s marked 
significant signpost in the inte
ntion of democracy into the 
development of music the elimiiStion of talent as a criterion for 
access. No more would fame and 
jrtune be restricted to a few elitt-aristocratic entertainers by 
ourgeois tyranny. Nay, finally, 
a long-awaited actualization of 
lie populist Utopia, the benefits 
f-mass adoration and critical 
cclaim would be accessible to all, 
egardless of race, color, or musiA\ ability.
A minor side effect of this break
through in social conscience is 
hat the quality of popular music 
ias dropped like a tractor heaved 
iff Mount Olympus. As a result, 
ur generation has nearly 
gapped its cultural vertebrae 
eying to bend over backwards
*and grope with nostalgic despera
tion for some of the days of musi
cal splendor gone by. In such an 
atmosphere, then, it is hardly 
surprising that many age-old rock 
groups have reappeared after 
years of comfortable retirement,
perhaps to make a 
fast buck in this 
wasteland of me
lodic mediocrity, or 
perhaps to pump 
some lifeblood into 
an era devoid of 
much sign of prom
ise.
Among the ranks 
of these time travelers walks the 
Grammy Award 
winning group 
Jethro Tull, now 
two decades old, 
with their newest 
work, Rock Island.
Rock Island 
could easily be considered a typi
cal album for Jethro Tull. It con
stitutes no great stylistic depar
ture. All the Tull trademarks are 
there  the thundering waves of 
guitar; the dark, eerie, shifting 
chords; and the mischievous danc
ing tones of Ian Andersons flute 
intertwined throughout. The 
power of Tulls music is that it 
doesnt rely on the instrumenta
tion, but rather utilizes it as a tool 
to proudly express the underly
ing musical ideas. Lead singer 
and songwriter Anderson is a 
modern minstrel, deftly mixing 
the playful with the overwhelm
ing, the comic with the climactic. 
His lilting, elfin voice can gently 
mock in one moment, then sud
denly twist into harsh cynicism 
in the next.
Anderson commands respect, 
both lyrically and musically. 
Many people dont appreciate Tull 
because it doesnt leap out and 
throttle you with blaring noise 
and percussion  it goes exactly 
where Anderson wants it to. Every 
step is precisely engineered, and 
invites you to sit down and appre
ciate the workmanship.
Rock Island is a prime example
of Tull handiwork. We are offered 
pieces like Kissing Willie, an 
energetic, embittered tale of infi
delity, and Another Christmas 
Song, which impishly integrates 
holiday melodic tones into its rock 
contexta clever idea that works 
surprisingly well. Ears of Tin is 
a relentless masterpiece, high
lighted by its incessant, pound
ing rhythmic chorus. The 
Whalers Dues pits the plaintive 
plea of an aging seaman against 
the unforgiving howl of his con
science, brilliantly represented by 
the bold background vocals. 
Heavy Water is gentler but still 
effective, most notable for its rich, 
medieval harmonies.
The rest of the album, while 
perhaps not as outstanding, is 
nonetheless of exceedingly high 
quality as well. In fact, the lowest 
common denominator of any song 
on Rock Island is that of being 
simply good  never is there a
single musical expression with 
outmeaning. The solos arent sim1 
ply excuses to let the lead guitar-'' 
ist lapse into a wild frenzy, but 
melodic extensions of themes that 
cover a lot of ground without" 
meandering. A work like this all7 
too clearly distinguishes those art-:- 
ists who have something to say'-4 
from those who like the way their;1 
instruments sound and marvel ' 
that they can pass as musicians."
Whether youre looking for an" 
introduction to Jethro Tull, or you " 
want to complete your collection, 
or you simply like the idea of a - 
contemporary album that isnt 
digitally mastered drek, Rock 
Island is certainly a worthwhiler 
purchase. Grab it at your local 1 
vendor, sit back, and hear a pow
erful reminder not only of how. 
rock once was, but should be. I
Jethro Tull plays the A.J. 
Palumbo Center at 7:30 tomorrow 
night. Tickets are still available. \
AB Dance was in the mood.
-Right: Students swing to the big band sound of the Glenn Miller 
Orchestra.
lielow, and below right: The musicians of the Orchestra blow that hot 
swing on a cool autumn night.
photos by Dan Giurca
Glenn Miller Orchestra sets the 
Skibo Ballroom dancing Friday
, The mirrored ball was sadly 
unlit, but aside from that minor 
detail, the Glenn Miller Orches
tra provided a magical evening 
of dance and romance for the 
campus last Friday night.
The Orchestras visit was pre
sented by AB Dance, in response
to the success of George Gees 
Make-Believe Ballroom Orches
tra over the past two years. AB 
Dance Chairman Rich Ford, who 
estimated dance attendance at 
600 people, said, Its not makebelieve this year... It was great 
to see so many smiles.
Stone presents photos
By MICHELLE JONES
Tartan Staffwriter
An exciting exhibition of inter
esting, familiar faces is coming to 
Pittsburgh November 12-14. On 
these dates the Maxwell House 
Coffee Presents Rolling Stone: 
The Photographs exhibition will 
be at the Assembly Room in the 
William Pitt Union.
Perception: Rolling Stone is a 
weekly magazine which covers 
music and other important as
pects of popular culture. Real
ity: Rolling Stone is also a leader 
in the field of photojournalism. 
Over the magazines 22-year his
tory, its art directors, photo direc
tors, and contributing photogra
phers have won prestigious 
awards. In 1988, the magazine 
received a National Magazine 
Award for Excellence in Photog
raphy.
In celebration of the award, 
Rolling Stone photography editor 
Laurie Kratochvil has put to
gether a coffee table book for our 
generation. Aptly titled Rolling 
Stone: The Photographs (Simon 
and Schuster, $50), the book fea
tures 150 photographs selected 
from the vast number featured in 
the magazine.
A touring exhibition of larger 
than life samples has been or
ganized so that everyone has the 
chance to peruse the photographs 
without having to loiter in book
stores. In other words, expect a 
display of the heroines, heroes 
and icons which for years have 
stared at us from album covers, 
posters, and television and cin
ema screens: the stuff of latter
20th century American culture. J 
The tour will eventually visit 
26 university campuses across the  
United States. It may seem odd  
that the exhibition is sponsored'* 
by Maxwell House Coffee. How+ 
ever, Ray Viault, the vice-presi-: 
dent of Kraft/General Foods Corporation and president of the," 
Maxwell House Coffee Division,', 
saw the connection immediately. 7 
Coffee houses and music have*/ 
historically been linked as a ma-" 
jor center of social activity on 
campus. Viault feels that spon-- 
sorship of the tour allows Maxwell j 
House to re-establish this his-, 
torical relationship.
To ensure that the message is ; 
not lost, complimentary com! 
memorative mugs will be avail! 
able. These are the same mugs  
offered by the magazine for only  
$3.95 with proof of purchase of ; 
any Maxwell House product. (This ; 
is a hint to drop by the exhibition ; 
if only to snag a cool mug.) \ 
Some of the subjects include: ! 
The Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix, ! 
Ziggy Marley, Michael Jackson, ! 
Keith Richards, Sting, Tina ' 
Turner (who graces the front cover ' 
of the book), Norman Mailer, ; 
Hunter Thompson, and Tom ; 
Wolfe (a frequent contributing \ 
editor to Rolling Stone and the ! 
author of the books preface). The I 
photographers include Richard I 
Avedon, William Coupon, Hiro, ' 
Annie Leibovitz and Herb Ritts.  
The exhibit will take the Wil; 
liam Pitt Union by storm Novem; 
her 12 to 14, and will be located in \ 
the Assembly Room. It can be \ 
viewed between 10 am and 6 pm. I 
Admission is free.
^FHA ETA PREsE/y
MR. FRATERMI TV
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 0th
7:00 pm, SKIBO BALLROOM
$3.00 donation
PROCEEDS GO TO THE KARIN JOHNSON FUND WITHIN THE CENTRAL OHIO LUNG ASSOCIATION
,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc pmm\

---------------------------------------------------

Business
Opportunities 
Conference 1989
November 9, 1989 
Skibo Ballroom 
10:30 am to 4:00 pm
All Students interested in Accounting, Business, Economics, Finance, Graphic Communications, Management Information Systems, Marketing Operations Research, and Production are invited to attend.
Companies attending include:
Andersen Consulting AT&TInternational Paper Kurt Salmon Associates BowneO'Connor & Associates Putnam, Hayes, & Bartlett Kaufmann's
Electronic Data Systems Central Intelligence Agency Clarke America Peterson & Co. Consulting Peat, Marwick, Main, & Co. MeadThe Prudential
Sponsored By AIME (Association for Industrial Management & Economics) And CCMSO (Graphic Communications Mgt. Student Organization)

---------------------------------------------------

idaris Savage Beach is no big surprise; more breasts, guns
,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcScpdv
One of the many Playboy undercover agents starring in Savage Beach.
My friend Shank Struthers 
came by last week to play golf. I 
jjidnt wanna do it. Theres still 
green grass on the courses, and I 
normally refuse to play until 
everythings turned yellow and 
theres dead sweetgum balls lay
ing around and all the leaves are 
e off the trees so I can find my 
golf ball. But Shank said we cant 
wait all year long for winter to 
come, and, besides, he had the 
new 1990 model golf balls, which 
we needed to test out.
So we went out to the Highway 
80 nine-hole course that looks like 
cow pasture, and I tested out 
the balls on the first tee with my 
driver. Heres the results, in case 
youre planning to play golf this 
year:
Titleist: 87 yards.
ProTest: 42 yards in the air.
JackNicklaus: 16 yards, scootin 
along the ground.
XXXXXXXXX: 132 yards.
I dont know about you, but I 
think thats pretty conclusive 
evidence that the XXXXXXXXX 
people have done a lot of work on 
the aerodynamics of their ball 
during the past year. We only 
played nine holes, but I used 34 
XXXXXXXXX balls just on that 
one day.
One thing I noticed about golf 
this year, though, is that people 
are forgetting their golf etiquette. 
For example, here are some golf
ing no-noS you should be aware of 
if youre planning on going out:
1. If people see you wading 
through the weeds, swingingyour 
five-iron like a machete, trying to 
get down in the bushes to find 
your ball, theyll only stand there 
waiting for about ten minutes 
before they start screaming Get 
out of the way, you stupid idiot! 
Your ball is lost! I believe the
correct term is Fore.
2. Inexperienced golfers get very 
upset if you drive your motorized 
electric golf cart too close to the 
hole. For example, on the parthree seventh hole, I hit a fiveiron, a seven-iron, and a nineiron to the green  and left my 
ball just inches from the hole. I 
parked the cart about two feet on 
the non-putting side of my ball, 
holed the putt, and then yelled 
back Look out for the tire tracks 
on the right side of the green! 
And they got upset. What did they 
want me to do, not warn em about 
it? Next time Ill keep my mouth 
shut, let em use sand wedges to 
putt with.
3. You know those guys that 
wear the white shorts and white 
socks and white shirt and white 
shoes? Theres more of em this 
year. But if you do stuff like flip 
on the automatic sprinkler sys
tem when theyre not looking, 
chunk rocks at their thousanddollar set of Ping-brand golf clubs, 
make fun oftheir hair, most of em 
will eventually leave.
4. If the pond goes dry, they 
dont let you go down in there and 
hit your ball off the old tires. They 
say too many people never did 
come back up out of there once 
they went in.
5. If you put black paint in the 
ball-washers, they make you go 
home. I dont see why. Anybody 
that can play golf with a white 
ball, or one of those fluorescent 
atomic-radiation orange balls, can 
play with a black ball. I person
ally use a black XXXXXXXXX 
with two giant cuts in it so I get 
double reverse English on every 
shot. But I guess not everybody 
has thatlevel of golfing expertise.
Shank Struthers shot a 32 on 
nine holes. I wont tell you my 
score, but if my handicap ever 
went up to 194,1 might could beat 
him. And speaking of lost causes,
I Joe Bob Goes
9
 mmm mmmmmmmm
I called up Andy Sidaris last year
 the ABC sports director who 
spends most of his time pointing 
cameras at the nekkid breasts of 
Playboy Playmates  and I said,
Okay, Andy, listen. Youve made 
eight movies now, but the last 
five have made absolutely no 
sense.
And Andy said, I resent that.
Malibu Express made sense.
There are only four that made no 
sense.
And so I begged him. I said,
Andy, you are by far the finest 
director working with Playboy 
Playmates, machine guns and 
exploding helicopters today...
What about the deadly mutant 
killer snake in Hard Ticket to 
Hawaii.
Okay, youre the greatest di
rector of deadly rubber snakes, 
too. But when you write this next 
script...
Ive just about finished it,
Andy said. It weighs about a 
pound and a half.
Well, Andy, put some scenes in 
there that make sense, okay? It 
would be a lot more enjoyable if, 
when people blow up, we know 
who they are and why theyre 
blowing up. It would help also if 
the girls that jump into the hot 
tub every ten minutes had names 
we can remember. Little things 
like that go a long way, Andy.
And so Andy promised hed do 
better, and then  I swear to 
God, Im not making this uphe 
had to leave to go to Florida and 
direct the space shuttle Chal
lenger launch for ABC News.
Andy! I said. Andy! He came
back to the phone.
Savage Beach 
he told me.
What?
Savage Beach. 
Thats the name of 
the new one.
And ever since 
then Ive been waiting for it to 
come out. And now, from the man 
whos won 11 Emmys, Andy Si
daris, comes the sequel to Malibu 
Express, Hard Ticket to Hawaii, 
and Picasso Trigger, the only 
movie ever made with four Play
boy Playmates of the Month, a 
Playgirl Man of the Year, Miss 
Tecate 1988, the two-time world 
champion Indoor Speedway Mo
torcycle Racing Champion, the 
regional media spokesman for 
Panasonic, and the world kung fu 
champeen.
The basic plot is that Dona Speir 
and Hope Marie Carlton, the two 
undercover DEA agent Playboy 
Playmates from the last movie, 
are still running around in jungle 
shorts, cowboy boots and spaghetti-strap T-shirts, firing their 
machine guns at drug smugglers, 
Filipino communist guerrillas, 
and corrupt federal agents while 
their two friends, Lisa London 
and Miss May 1984 Patty Duffek, 
lounge around the pool a lot and 
talk on speaker phones that look 
like Fax machines. Theres some
thing in there about how the 
Japanese stole all the gold from 
the Philippines in World War II, 
and theres a crazed Claymation 
ninja living on a deserted island 
with the gold, and our two Play
boy Playmate agents just happen 
to find him while theyre deliver
ing life-saving serum to poor dying 
orphan children.
In other words, way too much 
plot getting in the way of the 
story, but Andy has done it again. 
In an act of totally unethical 
behavior, Andy put a scene in the
movie of himself sitting in an of
fice reading a copy of We Are the 
Weird, the official Joe Bob Briggs 
newsletter. Just so he could geta 
halfway decent review.
In other words, Andy, youre 
my kind of guy!
Thirty breasts. Thirteen de^d 
bodies. Onenecessary-to-the-plot 
Lets all get in the hot tub arid 
relax scene. Exploding van. 
Exploding boat. Exploding Yup
pie. Cocaine-infested pineapples. 
Machete through the back. 
Rooster shot with Uzis. Hari-kaji. 
Kung Fu. Uzi Fu. Drive-In Acad
emy Award nominations for Dona 
Speir, Miss March 1984, for flying 
an airplane through a terrible 
storm and saying Shouldnt we 
get out of these wet clothes? and 
putting the plane on auto-pilot so 
she can change blouses, and or 
being tied up by her cowboy boqts 
but not figuring out how she could 
possibly get loose; Hope Marie 
Carlton, Miss July 1985, for get
ting stranded on a desert island 
and saying What do you say we 
check out the beach?; Michael 
Shane, Playgirls Man of the Ye fr, 
for having absolutely nothing"to 
do in the movie; Dann Seki, as the 
dying Japanese admiral, for say
ing The cancer clutches ever 
tighter at my heart; Teri Weigel, 
Miss April 1986, for saying My 
ideology means far more to me 
than fame and adulation right 
before she whips off her blouse; 
Rodrigo Obregon, for exploding 
people for no reason and then 
saying Dont spend it all in one 
piece!; and Andy Sidaris, for 
writing a plot about computers 
and lost gold and satellites and 
probability vectors that not even 
Andy can understand.
Four stars. (Theyve made four 
of these!) Joe Bob says check it 
out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the drive-in 
movie critic of Grapevine, Texas.
E
r
lectronic Pre-Press Systems, Inc. Eastman Kodak Company
A dynamic member of the Eastman Ko
dak family of companies, Electronic PrePress Systems (EPPS) serves as Kodaks 
primary agent to supply electronic pre
press products, integrated systems and 
support services to the printing and pub
lishing industries. These include 
computer-based systems to capture, cre
ate, manipulate, integrate and produce 
electronically all elements of newspapers, 
magazines and legal and corporate 
documents. EPPS serves specific 
worldwide markets within these industries 
through four business units: Atex Pub
lishing Systems, Magazine Publishing, 
Kodak Legal Systems and Electronic 
Printing Systems. These units, in turn, are 
supported by several Research and 
Development Engineering groups as well 
as other centralized support groups. 
EPPS is a 1,100 person company, located 
in Billerica and Bedford, Massachusetts. 
In particular, we have entry-level openings 
for those with experience and/or educa
tion in the following areas:
EPPS, Inc.
graphicsuser interfacesx-windowsimage processingdigital signal processingrelational databasesUNIX and VMS operating systemsC programmingdistributed applicationsnetworking and communicationsI sun workstations
AAEq ;rCR affibL PeUPmO Ca9lineneIi 
LomobeiL -enP kirifenL nPon erCmgMi 
9iMeCom orM Mirnom erLgborCiq s/d2w3 
lmorq lbafen LPoberUq fgmm ngenear bie9Y
kgbLi9irnq fenriLL Cirnibq orM o kbeUPnq 
9aMibr foCemenOR
f
We are seeking graduates with 
a B.S. in Computer Science, Ap
plied Mathematics and Physics. 
We will be on campus recruiting 
on November 20th. Stop by the 
Career Services and Placement 
Office for more details.

---------------------------------------------------

dds,Pi ,obnor u hobriUei Vimmar u 8 4aIi9kib dcSc
Apply yourself to some world-class problems.
Thursday, November 9
Time Bandits
ABs Terry Gilliam Mini-Quasi-Sorta-Festival be
gins with this cult classic ride through time and 
space. Director Gilliam, of the BBCs Monty Pythons 
Flying Circus, drags his audience, along with a 
young boy and the obligatory cast of midgets, on a 
daring burglary to the end of time. While less pro
found and intricate than Brazil (showing next 
Thursday), Time Bandits is much funnier. Its also 
much more subtle than Baron Munchausen (next 
Friday), although it lacks the star-studded cameo 
cast of Gilliams more recent project. All in all, Time 
Bandits is definitely the best time-travel movie of 
the week (see below).
At 6, 8:30,11  Rated PG-13
lPana ?dcSc :bear AeCngbiL 
Bill (left), Socrates, and Ted take a spin through time in Bill & 
Ted's Excellent Adventure.
Burgh boasts good jazz shops
By JEFF MULLER
Tartan Staffwriter
This week Im going to take you 
on a guided tour around the recT 
ord stores of Pittsburgh in search 
of jazz. I know what youre saying 
 its kind of late in the semester 
to be going out and buying rec
ords. Well, if you dont get around 
to any of these places this term, 
then clip and save this article so 
that youll know where to go after 
the Christmas holidays.
Lets begin at Stedefords, lo
cated at 417 East Ohio Street on 
the North Side. Here, owner Ron 
Liest has created a virtual Gar
den of Eden for jazz enthusiasts 
in the Burgh, with an album se
lection that includes all of the 
masters as well as countless 
younger talents. This is the only 
place in Pittsburgh that you can 
consistently findjazzmasters such 
as Charlie Parker, Charles Min
gus, Thelonius Monk, and Clif
ford Brown.
In fact, you can find just about 
anybody whos done anything in 
the genre here, and if you cant 
find it in stock, they can order it 
for you.
For those of you who dont know 
exactly what you want when you 
walk into a record store, theres 
Butch. Butch, who does a morn
ing jazz show on WYEP, works 
days at Stedefords and will help 
you find what you want. Even if 
you dont know any names, just 
tell him the sound that youre 
interested in and hell turn you 
onto a slew of recordings, both old 
and new.
Stedefords also carries a selec
tion of jazz CDs for those of you 
who no longer have turntables, 
although the compact disc selec
tion isnt quite as complete as the 
vinyl. Prices are the same as any 
other new record store, but the 
selection is the reason to shop 
here.
For those of you who cant get to 
the North Side  however poor 
your excuse may be  there is
Record Rubble at 5824 Forbes 
Avenue (downstairs) in Squirrel 
Hill. The selection here is not as 
complete as Stedefords, but there 
are a good number of new and 
used titles on most of the jazz 
labels, including Black Lion and 
Concord. The prices here are 
reasonable and Rubble does have 
the best selection of new jazz, 
especially reissues, in the imme
diate vicinity. Compact disc and 
cassette tape selection here is 
sparse, though its worth a look.
Heading down Forbes in the 
opposite direction we find our
selves at Jerrys Fine Used Rec
ords (3710 Forbes Avenue, up
stairs beside McDonalds). Jerrys 
has the best prices around and 
actually does carry a fairly large 
collection of used jazz records, 
though it seems that you can never 
find anything by Charlie Parker 
or Thelonius Monk or many other 
legendary jazzmasters here.
But there are a number of other 
great players that you can find 
recordings by, plus every week 
theres something special in the 
new records bin. I guess the motto 
for shopping at Jerrys should be 
persistence pays off. Jerrys does 
have tapes and CDs as well, but 
once again, the non-vinyl selec
tion doesnt quite compare to that 
of the records.
Next well wander into the city 
to Eides Comics and Records, 
located at 940 Penn Avenue 
downtown. Eides doesnt really 
have a great jazz selection  it 
does have a hefty helping of the 
blues  but it does carry a good 
selection of albums by Miles Davis 
and John Coltrane. Other than 
these two pioneers, Eides mainly 
has the normal recent releases
and a few reis
sues. The prices 
are okay, and if 
you cant find 
the jazz you 
want, theres a 
large selection 
of rock and un
derground, plus 
comics, comics, comics.
For those of you who dont have 
a turntable or compact disc player, 
theres really only one place I know 
of that has a fairly extensive range 
of cassette tapes. The only catch 
is you need a car to get there. This 
is National Record Mart Plus in 
the Waterworks Plaza in Fox 
Chapel (for those of you who dont 
know your way around Pitts
burgh, this is across the Allegheny 
River off Route 28). Prices here 
are typical and the place really 
isnt all that special, but if you get 
desperate, make the trip.
Thats really it for finding jazz 
records in Pittsburgh, but while 
Im on the topic Ill give you some
thing to look for. This is the re
cent release of the music of jazz 
innovator Thelonius Monk, en
titled Straight No Chaser.
The music on Straight No 
Chaser was taken from the up
coming motion picture ofthe same 
name, a documentary about the 
life, music and personality of 
Monk, an influential pianist who 
changed the way that jazz was 
played.
The album opens with Monk 
saying Im famous, aint that a 
bitch! This is fitting, for the vir
tuoso was not critically recognized 
until a decade after he began to 
record. Following this opening 
quote is the classic Straight No 
Chaser with narration from the 
movie over it.
The narration is interesting, but 
I almost wish that the song had 
been included without the narra
tion. Two other pieces on the al
bum have commentary over them, 
and even though I would have 
preferred the music by itself, the 
talking is kept to a minimum.
The talking aside, this albumi 
has some definitive Monk. In. 
eluded is a recording of Trinkle 
Tinkle with tenor saxophonist 
John Coltrane. Coltrane, whose' 
blistering phrasing influenced a 
generation of players, works 
amazingly well with Monk, who 
acts as the perfect foil. Unfortu 
nately, Monk and Trane only 
recorded three songs together' 
which makes this track all the 
more important.
Also notable is I Mean You 
(Stickball), a piece that had to be 
pieced together by sound engj.- 
neers because it was not recorded' 
in its completion when it was per-' 
formed live. Monks solo on this* 
as well as on Evidence, is a classic example of his imagination 
and technique.
The beautiful ballad Pannon-i 
ica is included from a home re
cording which is said to be the 
first performance of this piece 
ever. Written for the Baroness) 
Nica de Koenigswarter, New 
Yorks premiere jazz patron whom' 
the ailing Monk spent his final; 
years with, this song is a beauti-l 
ful composition elegantly played! 
solo by Monk on piano. ,
The album also includes three 
other solo piano pieces running 
the range of Monks style, from 
stride to bop, as well as perform-; 
ances by Monks quartet and oc
tet from the late 1960s.
Despite the talking on three' 
tracks, this album is essential 
Monk. Now close your eyes, put 
your finger on a record store 
mentioned in this article, and go 
there and buy this record.
One final note: the Heavy Cats,' 
Carnegie Mellons only jazz combo 
(though there is another on the 
way!), is back and it sounds great. 
Although less than half of the 
bands members are currently 
CMU students, I am told that 
they will be playing at Scotland 
Yard fairly regularly, so keep an 
eye out for them.
Jeff Muller is a junior writing 
major.
The global weather pattern has 
shifted, leaving much of Africa in 
severe drought. What can be done 
until the weather system 
reverts to normal?
Once again, our dependence on 
petrochemicals is on the rise. 
Find practical, cost-effective energy 
alternatives that can be used 
before our reserves are depleted.
Oil spills around the world 
threaten our wildlife and shorelines.
What new oil tanker design can 
prevent these spills, or what new 
method or instrument can be used 
to clean them up?
For nearly a century, industry 
and automobiles have wreaked 
havoc with our planets ozone 
layer. How long will it take 
to reverse the damage?
Friday, November 10
Bill & Teds 
Excellent Adventure
Take the worst parts of Valley Girl, Fast Times at 
Ridgemont High, and your world history textbook, 
and youll have a close approximation of this film, 
which is quite possibly one of the silliest of the 
decade. Bill and Ted (Alex Winter and Keanu 
Reeves), high school pals without a care (or a clue) 
in the world, set off for the past in a time-traveling 
phone booth. Guest star George Carlin is quite good, 
and some moments are actually funny (watch for 
Sigmund Freud with a chocolate-covered frozen ba
nana), but dont go to see Bill & Teds expecting any 
substancethis cotton-candy movie will melt away 
the minute it ends, leaving you saying Party on, 
dude! with a blank expression.
At 6, 8,10,12  Rated PG
Saturday, November 11
Dangerous Liaisons
This lush story of seduction and betrayal will 
grab you by the collar from the very start. It stars 
John Malkovich and Glenn Close as scheming aris
tocrats in 18th century France, and these perform
ers can scheme with the best of them. Add Swoozie 
Kurtz, as a befuddled matron, Michelle Pfeiffer as a 
virtuous (and beautiful) noblewoman, and the sul
try newcomer Uma Thurman as an innocent teen
ager, and the combination is cinema dynamite. 
Easily the best film ofthe weekend; bringing a date 
is bound to be interesting.
At 6:30, 9,11:30  Rated R
Sunday, November 12
Thunderball
Can it be yet another James Bond film? Yes, it can
 and it happens to be one of the better ones. Sean 
Connery plays the debonair 007 in an action-packed 
adventure that involves the theft of a pair of NATO 
nuclear missiles. Underwater chase scenes, car 
chases, great fights, beautiful women, and the first 
appearance ofthe JetPack all highlight this round
about with the finest of Her Majestys Secret Serv
ice. Next week: You Only Live Twice.
At 6:30, 9,11:30  No Rating
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
On April 15,1990, well award prizes 
based on appropriateness, thoroughness, 
and originality of the solution. First prize 
is SI,000, second prize is $500, third prize 
is $250, and honorable mentions are $100.
Call 1-800-MATHCAD (617-577-1017 
in MA) for your complete Math Is Rad
ical contest kit, including full contest 
rules, and get started right away. Enter 
independently, or make 
it part of a class project \ s 
or paper. But just make i W?
sure you get involved. pHp*
Because our planet ;J> 
can use all the help it 
can get.
math is radical
VA contest for engineering 
and science students.
 1989 MiihSofr. Inc.. Cambridge. MA
Introducing Math Is Radical, 
with a $1,000 prize for the 
best solution.
Announcing 
a contest for the benefit 
of our entire planet. Its 
Math Is Radical, a chance 
for science and engineering 
students to take their best shot 
at solving some of the worlds 
most pressing problems. And 
win some cash if yours is judged 
among the best.
Heres how to enter. Choose 
any problem you feel poses a thre; 
to our planet-the suggestions above 
should get you started thinking.
Then develop a solution, complete 
with the assumptions, formulas, and 
graphs that support your conclusions.
The only hitch is a good 
hitch-you must 
y? uscMathCAD 
^software to prepare 
your submission.
But thatll just make 
the project go faster. 
Because with MathCAD, 
you simply enter formulas 
as you would on a scratchpad 
and let MathCAD do the work. 
Change a variable, and MathCAD 
calculates your new answers in
stantly. And because MathCAD 
is the worlds most popular engi
neering and scientific calculating 
software, youll be using a tool you 
can use for the rest of your career. 
Youll find a copy of MathCAD on 
your campus, or you can purchase it 
at a special student price of $99 (reg. 
$495) between now and 1/31/90.
