OTic Carnegie STartau
Men must be at liberty to 
say iu print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1932
Beta Sigma 
Rho Leads In 
Scholarship
Average Of 4.04 Wins 
New Cup For Second 
Consecutive Year
McGILL HALL HEADS 
MENS DORMITORIES
Alpha Kappa Psi Leads 
Sororities; Hawthorn Ilall 
Womens Dormitories
By JACQUE MINNOTTEThe Beta Sigma Rho fraternity 
with an average of 4.04 heads tne 
list of fraternity scholarship rat
ings for the year 1931-32, Dean 
Tarbell, secretary of the Commit
tee on Scholarships, Grants and 
Prizes has announced.
The Alpha Sigma Phi fraternity 
ranks second with an average of 
 3.834. Sigma Nu, 3.830; Phi Sigma 
Kappa. 3.81; and Theta Xi, 3.75; were third, fourth and fifth respectively. Awards to the highest ranking fraternity, men's dormitory, womens sorority, and womens dormitory were made at the annual Carnegie Day exercises today in Carnegie Music Hall.This marks the third consecutive year that the Beta Sigma Rho fraternity . has lead the twenty campus fraternities in the annual scholarship ratings. This group gained permanent possession of a cup in 1929-30, by leading for the third time in five years, and in 
1930-31 gained a leg oh a new cup by again ranking first. By winning last year, Beta Sigma Rho need lead but once in the next three years to gain permanent possession of the new cup.
McGill Hall Leads
McGill ,1-Iall with an average for the year of 3.G6 ranked first in the list of mens dormitories. Boss Hall, 3.(55; .Scobell Hall, 3.GO; Henderson Hall, 3.48; and Welch Hall, 3.30; followed in the order named.Alpha Kappa Psi leads the four 
Colleges of Fine Arts sororities for the second consecutive year, with an average of 4.G1. Gamma Gnmmji Gamma, 4.41;. Beta Pi, 4^5; and Beta Tau Lambda, 4.32; resnpVitiv^iy were second, third, 
and fourth.
Hawthorn Hall, in last place for the year 1930-31, ranks first among the nine womens dormitories for the past year with an average of 4.17. Forbes Hall is in second place with 4.13; Mellon Hall. 4.LI. third; Cedar Hall, 3.99, fourth; and Linden Hall, 3.79, fifth.
First In 1930-31
For the year 1930-31, Beta Sigma Rho had an average of 3.88. Delta TJpsilon. Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa Delta Rho, and Beta Theta Pi, followed in the order named.Boss Hall with an average of 3.90 lead (ho mens dormitories forI.he year 1.930-31 and Henderson Hall, Scobell Hall. McGill Hall, and Welch Hall followed.
Mellon Hall lead the womens dormitories in 1930-31, with an average of 4.23 and Forbes Hall, Cedar Hall, Linden Hall and Magnolia Hall ranked in the ordernamed.
Womens sororities in 1930-31ranked as follows: Alpha KappaPsi, Beta Pi. Gamma Gamma 
'Gamma, and Beta Tau Lambda.The complete lists of the ratings follow:
Fraternities
1. Bolu Sienna Rho-------------------------_4.(M
2. Alnhn Pi-rma Phi_______________3.8343. Pirrma Nu ______________________3.830
i. Phi Sipma Kappa_________________3.81II. Theta Xi ________________________3.75fi. Pi Kapna Alpha_________,________3.7*1
7. Alpha Tau Omejra_______;_______3.739
8. Phi ICappa _____________________3.73G0. Tau DHta Phi___________________3.G230. Bota Theta Pi__________________3.619II. Delta Sienna Lnmbda___________3:611-
Kappa Delta Rho__________Sit-ma Phi Epsilon________Delta Tau Delta__________
Dlta TTpsilon
____3.489____3.482
____3.44
Alpha Delta___________________3 36Kappa Sitrma -----------------------------3.35Sipma Alnlia Epsilon____________3.30
Lambda Chi Alpha_______________2.98Phi Kappa Psi__________________2.88Men's Dormitories
McGill Hall _________________;__3.GG
Boss Hall_______________________3.65
Scobell Hall ____________________3.60(Continued on Page Three.')
New Biography Of Carnegie 
Reviewed By Dean Tarbell
Contains Two References To Events On Campus; 
Numerous Anecdotes About Founders Life 
Are Related By Burton J. Hendricks
By ARTHUR W. TARBELL, 
DEAN OF MEN
Coincident with the Institutes 
observance of the anniversary of 
the Founders birth is the publica
tion of Burton J. Hendricks Life 
of Andrew Carnegie. In reading it one forms the opinion that it is certain to prove the ultimate and authoritative source of informa
tion concerning the career of the great steel-master. It thus becomes a book of value to anyone associated with his benefactions; to the faculty, alumni, and under
graduates of our own institution it will have a special appeal.Readers of the Tartan will be interested to have brought to their attention two references in the book that are related to our own
C HARLE S.LLDN
BYN TORLWEI.M.LI
The Y. M. C. A. is planning to serve a Thanksgiving dinner 
at 6:00 p. m. on Thanksgiving evening at the Carnegie Inn. The dinner, which will cost 50c, is being given for the students who are not going home for the Thanksgiving recess. Richard A. Blair '35 is chairman of the dinner and of the entertainment which after the meal will be presented at Laurel Hall. Reservations should be made in the Y. M. C. A. office before Tuesday evening.
Plans are being made for a joint Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. meeting during the week preceding the Christmas vacation. Since this will be the first joint meeting this season, an inter
esting entertainment is plan
ned.
Drama Students 
Present Studio 
Matiuee Today
The third of this years series of studio matinees will be given in the Union at 3:30 this afternoon under the supervision of Professor E. W. Hickman. No tickets are needed for admission.Listed on this afternoons program as one of the three one-act 
plays to be presented is the story of a young man whose future is denied to him by liis Aunts devotion to the past. Vernon Crane 33, is directing the players, Fern G. Ball, graduate, Dorothy Neumann 3T>, and Edward V. Iiarmle. A special lot of fun and comedy played against a musical background will be offered by Eloi.se M. Campbell 33, Edward F. Kelly 33, and George A.M,cCalmon, gradate, under the direction of Helen 
B. Sisenwain 33. John Sollers, graduate, will present Louise E. 
Amsler 35, Marcia E. Leety 35, and Charles Frost 35 in his idea of how a husband goes about discovering that his wife is fundamentally dishonest.
Chairs for late-comers were again at a premium at the preceeding studio matinee. The audience present at each succeeding 
performance seems to increase in size, a reliable indication of the value and enjoyment offered by 
this campus innovation.
Jewish Council Hears 
_ Mr. Kenyon Lecture
ProfessorKenyon, head of the Department of Drama, is delivering a series of six lectures before the Council of Jewish Women on the dramas and the dramatists of the various countries.His first talk, Contemporary American Dramatists, was given at the home of Mrs. Karl Kauffnpiin last Friday._____________
Much Practice Required By Band 
To Perfect Formations At Games
The whistle blows for the half of the game, the team leaves, and the band .marches out on the field, a block of gleaming instruments bright plaid, and gay balloons. After some preliminary strutting about, by some amazing and intricate quarter-wheoi rights, open and closed orders, the band has astonishingly resolved itself into TECH, or-some other equally picturesque formation.The letters or designs which the band very skillfully executes, are dependent on more than a precise disposition of marching lines. When the band managers decide upon formations to be used, they must keejp in mind the marching appearance, the formation appearance, and the music which is to be presented on the march and at the standstill.The showiest and largest instruments of a band are the ones that placed in the front lines when -and is in rectangular form, are followed by the less
By MARY McCULLOUGH
conspicuous instruments, with the drums bringing up the rear. This arrangement presents a satisfactory appearance and also allows for harmony in playing. If. however, letters are formed with the band in this order, a huge tuba among the . cornets should probably mar the symmetry of a C, and an inconspicuous piccolo might ineffectively start a line of drums in the H.
In a Carnegie-W. & J. game some years ago, regular marching order of the band placed the tubas and French horns in the curve of the J and at irregular intervals in the straight lines of the W. At the game; however, these large instruments appeared at the points of the W and at the beginning and end of the J. The piccolo players, who were left over, were to form the hyphen between the letters, but due to some misunderstanding, all except one of them found places for themselves in the letters.
campus. It so happens that one is of unique timeliness in view of the fact that our distinguished guest and speaker at the Carnegie Day Exercises today, Sir James Irvine, is the head of the University of St. Andrews. On the same day, October 17, 1905, that Andrew Carnegie was being drawn by redgowned students of this oldest seat of learning in Scotland to the ceremony that was to install him as Lord Rector of St. Andrews, the first classes were being held at Carnegie Institute of Technology, the newest college in America.
The other is a story told of Carnegie to illustrate how lie sometimes got himself into difficulty as 
a result of impromptu speeches. It concerns the Margaret Morrison 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Plans Made 
For Womens 
Junior Prom
Betty G. Farrel, VicePres. Arts Juniors, 
Will Lead March
At a recent meeting of the wo
men of the junior class, Virginia 
Artz, Junior Social Chairman of 
Margaret Morrison and Chairman 
of the Womens Junior Prom com
mittee, announced the first plans 
for the Prom, which lias been 
scheduled for Friday eveniug, 
March 17. The Prom, fourth for
mal dance of the second semester, 
will be arranged by women of the 
College of Fine Arts and Margaret 
Morrison who' are prominent in 
campus activities. Miss Artz is a 
former Cwen and a member of the Womens Rifle Team.Six Women on CommitteeThe members of the committee 
are: Mary Husband, Jean Ritzel, Loretta Conlin, and Doris Collins, of Margaret Morrison, and Betty G. Farrell and Rosemary Saxton, of the College of Fine Arts.Miss Farrell, a vice president of the Womens Scholarship Organization and the vice president of 
the junior class at the College of Fine Arts, will lead the grand march. . In second place will be Mary Husband, who is president of the Junior Class of Margaret Morrison, a former Cwen and a vice president of the Womens Scholarship Organization. The honor of leading the grand march is alternated annually between the 
highest women officers of the junior class of Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Arts.
Mortar Board Serves 
At Tea For Alumnae
At a joint meeting of the present 
members of Mortar Board and last 
years members held November 16, 
the members of the honorary so
ciety decided to charge each organ
ization which uses the womens 
club room $5.00 a year. Provi
sion was made at the meeting for 
the addition of new lamps and 
cretonne covers for the furniture 
in the club room.
Members of Mbrtar Board served 
at a tea given in connection with 
1-Iome-coming Week for the Alum
nae of Margaret Morrison by the 
present Senior Glass at 1.00 p. m., 
Friday. The honorary society also 
attended the presentation of the 
reunion class plates in the main 
corridor at Administration Hall at 
2:00 p. m. on Friday.
LOST AND FOUND
The following articles have been 
left in various buildings on the cam
pus and if their owners will call 
at these places they may obtain 
them upon identification:
Lost and Found Office, basement 
Administration Hall: One plebe
dink, a girls blue tam, a lady's 
brown jacket, a chemistry book, a 
brief case belonging to II. G. Semple, and a green fountain pen.
Skibo Inn: A pair of black lace 
gloves, a pair of white kid gloves, 
a ladys blue umbrella, a Labora
tory Experiment belong to Rosita 
Connelly, and G. L. Frauenhelms 
Plane Trigonometry.
Grill: One leather cigarette case.
Commons: A black raincoat, two 
riiens hats, a pair of black kid 
gloves, and a pair of silver rimmed 
glasses.
The Hut: One pair of ladys
brown gloves and Frank Koprivas 
Chemistry Laboratory report.
Students To 
H ear Editor 
At Assembly
Waldemar Kaempffert 
To Speak In Little 
Theatre Dec. 6
HAS BEEN LAWYER, 
AUTHOR AND EDITOR
Delta Skull Sponsors; Seats 
Reserved For Faculty 
And Ilonoraries
By DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
Waldemar Bernhard Kaempffert, author and science editor of the New York Times, will be the speaker at the assembly to be held in the Litte Theater at 11:30 on December 6. The subject of his 
speech will be announced at a later date.Mr. Kaempffert has had a varied career since his graduation from Columbia University in 1S97. Upon graduation he received his Bache
lor of Science degree and was made assistant editor of the Scientific American, which job he held until 1911. For five years following this he was editor of Popular Science Monthly.Admitted to Bar in 1903Besides being an editor, Mr. Kaempffert has been a curator, 
and is the author of several books 
and translation'as well as a member of the New York Bar; Associa
tion. He was admitted to the bar 
as a patent lawyer in 1903, the year before he was awarded his degree of Bachelor of Law at New York University. His. writings consist of a History of Astronomy which was published in 1910 and a book on aviation entitled the New Art of Flying which was published the following year as well as several translations and numerous magazine articles. M(ost recent of all was his position as director of the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago which lie held for three years until last year when he was appointed science editor of the New York Times.The assembly will be sponsored 
by Delta Skull, the junior honorary, with Samuel. C. Wicks as chairman. Special seats will be reserved for faculty members and 
members of the various honoraries who are urged to be present.
Transfers Will 
Be Guests At Tea
The transfer students of Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Arts with their twin sisters of the sophomore class will be the guests of Dean Green and the Cwens at a bridge-tea on Saturday afternoon, December 3, in the Recreation Hall of Margaret Morrison from 2 to 5 oclock.On Wednesday, December 7, the Carnegie Cwens will be the guests of the Pitt Cwens and Druids at a tea dance, from 5 to 8 oclock in the Heinz House on the Pitt campus. Frances McLaughlin 35 is chairman of the reception committee, which includes Jean Shrawder 35, Janet Savage 35, Virginia Sepp 
35, Helen HoeVeler 35, and Katherine McGuire 35.
Anatole Club To Hold 
Dance Next Saturday
The Anatole Club will hold a dance on Saturday, November 26, 
the night of the Pitt-Stanford football game, at the Schenley Hotel. 
Daum Sandersons and Austin Wylies orchestras will furnish the music. The price of the tickets, which may be purchased at the Schenley Hotel or at the Hotel Roosevelt cigar counter, is $2.20 
during the presale and will be $2.75 at the door.
Holidays End 
Welfare Drive; 
Not Extended
Contributions May Be 
Made At Y Office 
At Any Time
COMMITTEE ASKS 
$1.00 PER STUDENT
Honoraries Call New Men 
Today In Carnegie Exercises
Tau Beta Pi, Etta Kappa Nu, and Tau Sigma Delta 
Call Twenty-Eight New Members Who Have 
Attained High Scholastic Records
Solicitors Asked To Check 
In Cards And Money 
At Y Office
By JOHN P. HILTZ
Carnegies annual charity drive, which is unGev the direction of Student Council and. is a part of the national Welfare Drive movement, will officially close on the 
campus tomorrow. The national organization has extended its solicitation for another week, but 
the drive at Carnegie, because of the fact that the Thanksgiving holidays make it necessary, will be governed by the originally-set period.
In case anyone has not been solicited and wishes to contribute something to the movement, they may do so at the "Y office where their contributions will be received by Mr. Rollin V. Davis or by .lohn P. Hiltz, chairman of the Welfare Drive committee. Those who wish to receive the Y. M. C. 
A. membership cards which have been offered for one and three dollar donations must also go to the ;Y office where the card will be given  in exchange for. their receipts.
Cards Must Be in Today
Solicitors are asked by the committee in charge of the drive to check in their cards and their money at the Y office beginning today at 4:30. All check-ins 
should be made before tomorrow at 1:30. If, however a solicitor has not yet had the time to see all the persons that he was sup
posed to see, lie may wait until after the Thanksgiving holidays to turn over his accounts to the committee.
It was the hope of the committee to realize a contribution of one dollar per student; if however, anyone feels that he cannot afford such a contribution, any that lie desires to give will be gladly received at any time.
Mens Glee Club 
Will Sing Sunday
The Mens Glee Club under the direction of Professor Karl A. Mai cherek, will take part in the regular services of the Third Presbyterian Church on December 11. Dr. Louis I-I.'Evans, who is the pastor, has arranged for the Glee Club to replace the regular choir on that evening. They will sing the following numbers: Bachs Chorale, Now Let Every Tongue Adorp Thee, a Welch melody, All Through the Night, Richard Wagners, Pilgrims Chorus, and the Prayer of Thanksgiving, an old folk song.
The Third Presbyterian Church is located at the corner of Fifth 
and South Negley avenues.
Tickets Are On Sale 
For Guild Production
Professor Kenyon, head of the 
Department of Drama, is sponsoring a theater party at the Nixon Theater for the night of December 9 when the Theater Guild will present its production of Biography by M. S. Behrman, with Ina Claire and Earl Larymore. Tickets at the student price of 55 cents may 
be reserved and paid for at Professor Kenyons office in the College of Fine Arts.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
BY STANTON WILLIAMS
The coming of Dean Green to 
Carnegie gave^to the post of Dean 
of Women not only one of experi
ence but also one of sympathy and 
enthusiasm for the work. She was born in Newport, Delaware, and took her A.B. degree at Gouclier in 1897.
For the twenty-three years following her 
g rad uation 
Dean Green was actively 
interested in civic and social problems, ranging from those of local nature, such as agitation for playgrounds, to those involving the state__________________ 1 e gislature.She relates Dean Green that as a lobbyist for regulation of working hours for women and children she 
gained her first insight into political technique.During the World War Dean Green became a member of the Red Cross and The National Defense League, whose function it was to determine where women could be employed in place of men
to the best advantage. Realizing about this time the necessity for certification of capability, she attended Columbia and there received her A.M. degree in 192-0.The following five years were spent at Rock Island College in Illinois, where she served as Dean and as a member of the Board of Trustees. Meanwhile she engaged in outside activities somewhat in line with her previous work.Dean Green came to Carnegie in September. 1925, succeeding Dean Brown. Since that time she has become active in such organizations as The Twentieth Century Club and the Monday Luncheon 
Club. She is president of the Western Pennsylvania Association of Deans of Women and Advisers of Girls.Dean Green likes to travel, and although she expresses a preference for Europe, she is very fond of the west. Moving about slowly offers the opportunity for studying customs in foreign countries; these she likes to learn first-hand from the people.She associates music, reading, love of nature, and study of people in a philosophy which lends an ever-present enthusiasm, and she uses it with rare charm to impart to those under her influence a realization of the possibilities life can hold in store for them.
Twenty-eight students, ten ju
niors and eighteen seniors, were 
called to three honorary fraterni
ties today at the Carnegie Day ex
ercises in the Carnegie Music Hall.
Wilfred Uffelman 33, Richard 
Jones 33 and Joseph Lentz 33, presidents of Eta Kappa Nu, Tau Beta Pi, and Tau Sigma Delta re
spectively made the calls from the platform. Twelve of the eighteen seniors and three of the juniors were called to Tau Beta Pi, National Engineering Honorary, 
which calls new members twice each year. Eta Kappa Nu, National Electrical Engineering Honorary, called seven juniors, and Tau Sigma Delta. Architectural and Allied Arts Honorary, called six seniors.
Thanksgiving 
Dance To Be 
Held This Fri.
Night Student Council 
To Sponsor Dance In 
Mens Gymnasium
On this Friday evening the stu
dents of Carnegie will be given an 
opportunity of attending the 
Thanksgiving Week Recess Dance. 
This is one of the major dances 
which the Night Student Council 
schedules for the night students 
and their friends.
The dance is to be held in the 
large auditorium of the mens 
gymnasium and those in attend
ance will be given a treat because of the many Innovations which are always in evidence when the Night Student Council puts on an affair.
Bill Kulesz and his Kilties have been engaged to furnish the music for the occasion and while this is the first time this band lias played for the Council, they come well recommended since they have 
played successfully for several functions recently held on the campus.
Committees Working on PlansVarious committees have been working on plans to make the dance a success and their efforts will be climaxed on Friday evening when the auditorium will be thrown open to the student body.Dancing will commence at 9:00 p. m. and continue until one a. m. A pleasing program has been ar
ranged and refreshments will be served during the dance. Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Sihiboli, Mr. and Mrs. Edmund Ashe, Mr. and Mrs. William E. Dosey, Mr. and Mrs. (Continued on Page Three)
Carnegie Buys Buick 
For Streamline Test
The school has purchased a new 
Buick Sedan to be used by the 
graduate students to carry out full 
scale experiments in streamlining. 
The students drove tile sedan back 
from the factory where they spent 
the week-end of November 11 in
specting the Buick factory and 
testing grounds.
Until recently the experiments 
have been confined to tests with diffrent sizes of cylinders in channels of various widths. The experimental results have agreed closely with calculated results and the stur dents believe that they may be able to work backwards from the data they have obtained and exnress accepted theories in new forms.
Beaux Arts Awards 
Medals To Architects
Three students in the Department of - Architecture were award
ed medals for their projects in the recent Beaux Arts Institute compe
tition in Class A Design. These men were William T. Manning 32, 
Ezekiel Levinson 32 and Edward K. Scliade 32. This problem, which 
was the first of the current school year, called for the design of A Synagogue. Pictures of the winning projects will appear in a 
forthcoming issue of the Bulletin oof the Beaux Arts Institute of Design.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, November 22:Carnegie Day Exercises, 10:30, Carnegie Music Hall.Wednesday, November 23: Thanksgiving Recess Begins at 5:30 p. m.Thursday, November 24:Y. M. C. A. Thanksgiving Day Dinner, 6 oclock, Carnegie Inn.Friday, November 25:Night Student Council Dance, Mens Gymnasium, 9 to 1.Monday, November 28:Resume Classes After Thanksgiving Recess at 8:30 a. m.
High scholarship, integrity, and unselfish activity are requisites for membership in these honoraries. Only members are chosen, 
who by their attainments as students manifest exceptional interest and marked ability in their respective fields. The purpose of the honoraries is to reward exceptional students and to allow closer cooperation among, and mutual benefits to, the students. The new members called are:
Tau Beta PiA. P. Fenderson, J. E. Saylcs, H. C. Wcstin, J. W. Clinnrerman, A. R. Matteso. W. A. Smith, W. E. Groves, J. R. Vensel, II. Miller, M. L. 
Jones, J. C. Lightfoot', T. ODonnell, L. E. Dempsey, V. E. Thornburgh, II. F. Zinser. To Tau Sipma DeltaL. Mispele, M. Piekarski, L. Thompson, and Messrs. Law, Jandl, and James. To Eta Kappa NuJ. D. Campbell, II. T. Harrod, J. M. 
Harvey, H. L. Kinpr, J. L. Loeb, R. H. Seitz, and C. J. Yohe.
i520DL5 HARFAD5E
TY |D |NYR0oRE5
Two students in Professor Chester Wallaces playwriting class have written playlets which have been accepted by the Tuberculosis League for production over the radio as a part of their Christmas seal publicity program.
Katharine E. Smith is the authoress of the first skit, which will, be given over station 
KDKA on the evening of December 3. The hour is to be announced later. The players will be cast from students in the Department of Drama.
Billy Invests. the second playlet, was written by Isabelle Jones. It will be featured on one of the Leagues programs at a later date. Several other skits are being composed by other members in the class.
Late Founders 
Daughter Visits 
Assembly Today
Mrs. Rosewell Miller, daughter of the late Andrew Carnegie, ac
companied by her husband, is in Pittsburgh today and attended the 
annual Carnegie Day Exercises at Carnegie Music Hall, this morning at which Sir James C. Irvine, principal and vice chancellor of the University of St. Andrews iu Scotland, was the main speaker. This marks the first visit to Carnegie of Mrs. Miller in a number of years.
While in Pittsburgh, Mr. and Mrs. Miller have been the guests of Mr. and Mrs. John L. Porter, 650 Morewood avenue.
Mr. Miller is a special member 
of the, committee of trustees of Carnegie Institute of Technology.Mr. and Mrs. Miller arrived in Pittsburgh last evening and were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Porter at a dinner at the University Club, The dinner was attended by mem
bers of the committee of trustees.Tonight they will be guests of honor at a dinner attended by 
close friends at the home of Mr. knd Mrs. Porter and will later leave for New York.Fraternity, sorority and dormitory scholarship awards were made at the assembly this morning by Dr. Baker.Calls of new members were 
made by the campus honoraries.
No Issue of Tartan
Until December
Because of the Thanksgiving 
day holidays there will be no issue of the Tartan published next Tuesday. Reporters may receive assignments by reporting at the Tartan office Tuesday afternoon. The next issue of the paper will be on December 6.
Fall Rushing
Will
November
Begin
30
Contacting In Freshman 
Dormitory Rooms 
Prohibited
FRATERNITIES OFFER 
BIDS AFTER DEC. 5
Regulations Committee To 
Decide Any Infractions 
Of Rushing Rules
By ANTHONY J. CACCHIONE
Fraternity rushing season will formally open on Wednesday afternoon. November 30, at 4:20 and will terminate on Sunday morning, December 11, at 1:00. That they will do no contacting before the contacting period commences and no rushing before the open rushing period begins, the fraternities have all agreed to observe.One of the most important changes in this year's set of rushing rules is the one forbidding communication between fraternity men and rushees from Sunday morning, December 11, to Monday morning, December 12, unless the rushees presented themselves at the houses of their choice Sunday. As an interpretation of the rules, 
rushees who at such time pledged themselves to fraternities are considered to be fraternity men and are likewise prohibited from com* munlcating with the rusnees.For the convenience of both freshmen and fraternity men the following. set of rushing rules which was adopted by tile Inter
fraternity Council is reprinted. 
These men are asked to cut out the rules for later reference.The following set of fraternity rushing rules, including a detailed explanation of each rule, was officially adopted by the Interfraternity Council. Freshmen and fraternity men are asked to clip these rules for reference.
Section 1The rushing soason shall bo divided into two periods: a contacting period and an open rushing period.
Section 2The contacting period shall begin at 4:20 p. in., Wednesday, November 30, and shall extend to 9:00 p. m., Thursday, Decomber 1. There shall be no contacting in any of.the educational buildings on Wednesday, November 30.Section 3All contacting shall terminate at 9:00 p. m., Wednesday, November 30, and shall not resume until 8:30 a. m. tiie following day.Contacting To CeaseSection 1At 9:00 p. in., Thursday, December 1, all contacting shall cease. The period from 9:00 p. in., Thursday, December 1, to 8:30 a. m.. Friday, December 2, . shall bo a silence period when no 
contacting or rushing shall bo done.
Section 5  Contacting consists only of making dates.Section 6No contacting shall be done in places where students are assembled for instruction, dormitory rooms, the Carnegie Grill, the Commons, Skibo Inn, or ofC campus 'except at the home of a freshman. Contacting shall be permitted in dormitory hallways.Section 7Open rushing shall begin at 8:30 a. m., Friday, December 2, and shall terminate at 1:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11.Section 8Bids may be offered after 8:30 a. m., Monday, December 5.Freshmen Leave EarlySection 9During the open rushing period, all freshmen shall leave the fraternity houses by 9:00 p. 
m., any night preceding a school day, and all fraternity men shall leave all freshmen by 10:00 p. m., any night preceding a school day. There shall be no rushing before 8:30 a. m., except on week-ends when fraternities have social events lasting into the a. m. hours in which cases the fraternity men shall leave the freshmen by one hour after the event ends. No function held in any fraternity house shall last later than 1:00 a. m. Saturday morning or 12:00 mid(Continued on Page Four.)
Higher Education Does Not Assure 
Monetary Success Or Prosperity
By MARGARET GRIFFIN
After thirty-five years of childlike faith in the monetary value of an education, students throughout the world are awakening to the fact that the riches which education has to offer are not convertible into cash.Based upon the query, Will your future income be increased if you receive a college education? a signed article in a recent New York Times discusses -the changing attitude toward education as a guarantee of financial success. Many parents sacrifice heavily, that their children may profit by the opportunity to acquire sufficient wealth to lead happy, successful lives, while at the same time many million less fortunate individuals will, supposedly, be under a severe handicap in the struggle for a livelihood.This opinion, supported for many years by independent inquiries into the earning power of college graduates, has been almost undisputed both inside and outside of colleges. Authorized decision^
have stated that it is the college graduate who in the end gathers the financial plums. As a result of such widespread belief in the magic power of education, youth 
has been stimulated to rush to college so. that enrollment has quadrupled 3ince 1900. Colleges and universities are turning out almost twice as many graduates qualified to work in various fields than those fields can absorb. According to Silas Strawn, former president of the American Bar Association, 
some 9,500 young lawyers are being turned out annually to replace , the 4,500 retiring each year from the profession.A skeptical attitude towards the glorious legend of the success of the college graduato is gaining many distinguished supporters. Have the investigations, it is being asked, given enough credit to the 
ability or patience, the hard work or even the family connections of the graduate? Have they considered business conditions? It might 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1932
Aver agOf4.0
I actually find myself look
ing forward to the moment 
when you pack the bowl with 
Grangex-. Its the aroma that 
I like.
Smokers like Granger be
cause it is made just right 
for pipes.
t elchn 
Liccett&Myebs 
Touacco Co.
The tobacco
-------------President
___Vice Prcalilent__________Cashier.Aanliitnnt Cniihier .Assistant CashierI Woodlawo Pharmacy
i 5200 FORBES STREET|
p We Have Something
ifl Suitable For Everyone
Johnstown $2.25 $3.40
Sunburv $6.40 $9.60
Akron $3.00 $4.50
Scranton $8.75 $13.15
Wilkes-Barre $8.25 $12.40
Greyhound Bus Station
Liberty Avenue at Grant Street 
Phone:' Grant 5700
GREYHOUND
Womens Athletics by Gloria Kloos
FORBES NATIONAL BANK
Your Home Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND - - - PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
KICHAKD K. MELLON.................................
Menemu st baliruyyttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt
HARRY S. imOWN____________________MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK.........................
J. NEVIN GARBER____________________
BOARD OF 
JOHN G. BOWMAN Ohnncollor University of Pittsburgh 
THOMAS S. BAKElt President Carnotrlo Institute of TcohnolORy 
JAMES M. BOVAKD 
Moorhoted & Knox, Attorneys GEORGE H. CAMPBELL Vice President 
JOHN F. CASEY President John P. Casey Company 
A. REX FLINN President Booth & Flinn Company 
HOWARD M. JOHNSON Auditor Llgonior Vnlley Railroad ELMER E. COLE 
President National Union Fire Insurance Company
DIRECTORS
RICHARD K. MELLONPresident Director Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HERBERT A. MAY Vico President Union Drawn Steel 
Company 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE Vice President Win. B. Scaifo & 
Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of 
Industrial Research
In an effort to accommodate the 
large number of shooters "who are swarming the range every afternoon a schedule has been made out for practice periods. The girls are asked to cooperate in using the schedule to avoid over-crowding in the late afternoon.
MondayNo shooting.Tuesday2:30-5:30.Wednesday1:30-5:30.Thursday2:30-5:30.Friday1:30-5:30.Week of:
November 23Each, girl to shoot one match target.
December 3All low scores receive extra coaching from Mr. Genter.'
December 10First match.December '17Second match.
At the first regular meeting of W. A. A. Board held in the Womans Club Room on November 7, it was decided to appropriate additional funds for the purchase of new equipment for the Rifle Team. The question of whether 
Carnegie should continue its membership in the International Rifle Association was also discussed. The expenses of the team are so large in proportion to the number of girls who participate in the sport that the Board is anxious to know whether the other members of W. A. A. are in favor of continuing the membership or using 
the funds to promote some other sport on the campus. If Carnegie is to drop its membership action
must be taken in the near future. Marion McNary will be glad to receive all opinions on the subject.
Peggy Ralston was looking for the key to the elevator last week. She claimed that she couldnt make her class on the third floor of Maggie Murph without some strong assistance. So thats what bowling does to you!!! Since the season opened there has been a regular epidemic of strained 
muscles and stiff necks among our fair athletes. Cant somebody find a bottle of wintergreen to carry along on their next trip?
With turkey time stealing upon us the air is getting crisp and cool. In fact, its just ideal weather for a big long hike. What say you, Mgr. Mary Kelly, cant you find the Maggie Murplis some nice trail to follow with hot-dogs and coffee waiting at the end of 'it? The Freshmen have yet to be initiated into our custom of breakfasting in a dug-out.The young lady who rated the feature column of. the Press the other night was our own Rifle Manager, Leah Yoegetly. That cocked rifle and squinted eye looked like a typical ranger. We are expecting great things of you, Leah. Isnt it about time we werehaving a real match?And!!! If you dont publish my work of art this week, Mr. Bronson, Im going to put fleas in your army supplies. Now will you he good ?
offer, the Violets stumbled and the Tartans gained sweet revenge and a 20-0 victory. In 1930 New York made its second visit to Pittsburgh and took a surprising 20-7 win from a favored Skibo team.
Last year those famous fighting Tartans met with the hardest kind of luck and lost to New York, 7-6. Red Stewart pulled a pass out of the air for a 6-point advantage in the first quarter and then pro
ceeded to miss a couple of other golden scoring Opportunities. Just when a Tartan victory seemed certain regardless, New York rose up, scored a touchdown and kicked the necessary extra point.
New Yorks record for this sea.- son is somewhat spotted. The Violets won handily over Hobart, Rutgers and Georgetown but lost | a 14-0 decision to the unbeaten! Colgate outfit and followed this up by taking the short end of a 34-9 score against a powerful Purdue team. N. Y. U. rallied the next week and repulsed a Georgia invasion, 13-7. In the last game they played, New York bowed to Fordliam, 7-0.
yNDE5ADNE TY
GDKYN5 At OLoD
Mr. Rentlln wants to an
nounce that all persons interested in wrestling report to the Wrestling Room In the Gymnasium. Mr. Rentlin will give 
instructions to all those who come out. If enough interest is 
shown it is hoped that a regular team can be formed.
From the International Press we learn that Professor G. Harry Wright, head of the public speaking department at MARSHALL COLLEGE, maintains that a girl covers up three-fourths of her personality when she wears a coat. Not to he sensational, we must add that the professor was speaking of coats in relation to public speech making.
Consider your 
P' - men T
The next time you run down to 
the big town for a week-end con
sider your D. A.
The new low rates at the modern. 
Hotel Empire are kind to your 
D epressed A llowance. $2 forone, $2.50 for two, for quality, 
accommodations.
Your IIosc will be
EMIL H. REINERS
General Manager of ibe
HOTEL EMHIGE
Broadway at 63rd St. 
NEW YORK CITY * /
BY JOE BRONSON
RAIN, SNOW AND SLEET, FAILED TO DAMPEN THE SPIRIT of 
that bravo Carnegie Tech eleven which out fought and played on even 
terms the supposedly great Pitt team. It was a lucky break early In 
tho third quarter which gave the Panthers six points and subsequently 
6-0 victory; a victory which they were very, very lucky to get. The 
break which decided the contest came when a long punt by Mungas 
went sailing down to Deugcr.and the wet ball slipped out of the fingers 
of the quarterbacks hand and was fallen on by Harvey Rooker on the 
two-yard line. At this point the Tartans displayed the greatest courngc of the gamo. Pitt , with that All-American backfield containing 
Heller, Sebastian, and Welnstock, and a line which has been praised 
all year, needed all of the four downs to make two yards. On fourth 
down the Panthers still needed a half of a yard for a touchdown, but 
when tho mass of players was uncovered after the fourth play it was 
found that Wcinstock had just barely gotten across.
IT IS STRANGE HOW GREAT A PART KICKS HAVE PLAYED in 
the success of the Panthers this year. It was that mammoth hoot of 
Hogans in the Notre Dame game which started Pitt towards victory 
and it certainly was Mungas' punt which spelled defeat for the Tar
tans Saturday. Not only did that punt prove a godsend to Pitt but 
three others which were very lucky kept that lead for our opponents. 
Three times in the last half the pigskin took such, crazy bounces that 
the safety man was unable to get it until it had gotten within the fif
teen-yard line. On one occasion the ball came rolling along the ground 
and for no reason whatever jumped over tho quarterbacks head and 
rolled to tho eight-yard line. Consequently the Tartans were unable 
to get away from the goal line most of the second half. In the last 
two' minutes the Sklbos managed to open up with several beautiful 
passes which put the ball on Pitts 40-yard line but here the game 
ended.
THAT THE PANTHER ATTACK WAS ALMOST COMPLETELY 
BOTTLED UP can be shown by the fact that they were able to gain 
only five first downs In the second half,, two of which were the results 
of penalties. In fact after the first few minutes of the game, when the 
Plaid had their second string line in action, Jock Sutherlands boys 
could do very little In the way of ball toting. In the first five minutes 
the Panthers marched up the field from their own twenty-yard line to 
the Tartans twenty-yard stripe at which point Steffen sent in his 
Varsity linemen who stopped the Panthers touchdown march on the 
spot.
CARNEGIES CO-CAPTAINS, GEORG IE KAVEL AND HOOKS SAMPLE, played in a manner which would have earned them a place on 
any college football team. Kavel, who, as we have said before, is one 
of the hardest working football players wo have ever seen was without 
a doubt the best back on the field. George ran harder and trickier 
than any of Pitts backs and tho way be hacked up that line was almost 
phenomenal. "Sunny Bill Samplo gave the best exhibition of guard 
playing that I have ever onnppw Ho stoppod line plays on his side of the 
confer and end runs on the other side. He rushed Pitts assors and 
was always down quickly on punts. There was hardly a play in which 
ho was not in on it in some manner. But our praise cannot ho con
fined to just two moil. Of almost equal merit was the work of tho rest 
of tho team. "Bunny Bur/Jo time and again knifod through the 
Panther lino to throw hall carriers for a loss. Tho ontlro lino charged 
hard and fast and seldom gave the opponents a chance to get started. Tho hacks played a smart game on the defense. They came up fast on line plays and were alert onough on passes to keep the Blue and Gold from connecting with any of their tossos.
THINGS WE FAILED TO SEE AT THE GAME which we have heard no much about since the football season begun were . . . Pitts AllAmerican bnokflcld . . . That bone-crushing forward wall . . . The groat Panther passing nttaok via Rolder and Holler ... It completed exactly none out of eight attempts. But things we did see were ... A fighting Plaid team which would not be trampled upon ... A pair of co-oaptalns who played the game as It should be played.
NO REST IS IN STORE FOR THE SKI BOS THIS WEEK for tomorrow they Journoy up to Now York to moot tho Violof team from Now York University in a Thanksgiving Day ongrigoment. II will make tho seventh tlmo tho two foams have met from which I lie Tartans have emerged victorious hut once. That was back in 1020 when Carnoglo played probably tholr host game of tho year to Upset tho Now Yorkers 150-0. Lust year when tho Sklbos were not conceded a chance against the supposedly superior team they outplayed their opponents but lost by tho slim margin of one point. Tho final score was 7-0. Now York University has often boon a thorn in tho side of Carnegie. In tho first 
encounter In 1020, Ken Strong kicked two field goals to give his team a 0-0 victory. And tho memorable battle in 1928 Is now history. Chick Meehan's team on this occasion blasted tho championship hopes of the Plaid in tho last game of tho season by walkingoff with a neat 27-13 victory. In 1930 a team of sophomores came to the stadium and surprised tho entire football world by downing that great Carnegie machine 20-0.This year despite the fact that New York University has lost several important games they have practically the same team which represented them in 1930. In losing their famous coach they seemed to have lost some of the old time pep but even at that they will enter the game as the favorites over the Tartans. But favorites often find themselves at the low end of the score and that is just what will happen this week if Coach Waddell can get his team into fighting condition by Thursday afternoon.
THE CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM MET A SUPERIOR FOE Friday afternoon when they encountered the Pitt Harriers in their closing meet of the season. The Pitt runners splashed their way through the rain and mud of the Schenley course to win the first five places. Shorey Allan, who came in sixth was the first man on the Plaid team to finish. Captain Bob Schell followed close after his teammate. Immediately after the meet the squad elected Shorey Allan as captain of next years team.
Fighting Tartan Team Nosed 
Out 6-0 In Annual Pitt Game
Plaid Invades 
New York On 
Thanksgiving
One RoundWay Trip
Cleveland $2.50 $3.75
Detroit $5.00 $7.50
Youngstown $1.25 $2.25
Philadelphia $8.00 $12.00
Washington $7.00 $10.50
Harrisburg $5.65 $8.50
Gettysburg $4.75 . $7.15
Columbus $4.50 $6.75
Fort Wayne $7.90 $11.85
Dayton $5.50 $8.25
Baltimore $6.25 $9.40
and Greyhouno will save 
dollars for Christmas fun
HERES sober fact .... you can save 
enough dollars on your Greyhound bus trip home for Thanksgiving to buy several worthwhile Christmas gifts, or to make a trip to the next big game.
And Greyhounds the preferred way to make holiday trips. You roll along smooth highways, with congenial fellow-passengers, cheered by healthful Tropic-Aire heat, no matter how crisp the air outside.
Only one bus company in the world can give you the security, the nation-wide service, the convenience of schedules that Greyhound offers. No matter where youre goinghow short or how long the tripask the Greyhound agent first. Nine chances out of ten, he can serve you best and save you real money.
GRANGER IS AMERICASPIPE TOBAC'
THE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
T.oWD5E BYN N. C. U. 
GRmD AMR.ARbAD NYw
Students wishing to procure tickets for the Thanksgiving Day game with New York University in New York may do so 
by applying at the Athletic Office in the gym. A student ticket and $1.10 will procure a reserved seat ticket for the game. Only one will be given to each person.
North-South 
Teams Meet 
In Baltimore
Leading Players From 
Many Schools Will 
Participate
Baltimore, Md., Nov.*The City 
of Baltimore, through Mayor How
ard W. Jackson, will toss its hat in 
tho football ring on December 10, 
when it will stage a North-SouLli All-Star football game at its huge municipal stadium seating more than 00,000 persons.
The North team will be recruited and coached by Jock Sutherland, of the University of Pittsburgh, whose Panthers recently electrified the football world by a brilliant victory over Notre Dame, wliilrf the Southerners will have Dick Harlow, great coach of the Western Maryland eleven, as mentor.
In order to insure a real football game played on its merits, the squadseach 22 strongwill be 
brought to Baltimore a week ahead of the .game for frequent practices, and, in addition, as guests of the 
City, they will be honored in mumerous entertainments.The leading players of both sections will be seen in action, and it is planned by the committees in 
charge, of which Louis E. Shecter, of Baltimore, is director, to make the event an annual affair, veing 
the event an annual affair, vying East-West series.From the North it is expected 
that such colleges and universities as Pittsburgh, Colgate, Cornell, Columbia, Pennsylvania, Princeton, Fordham and a host of others will be recruited for outstanding players, and the pick of gridders from the smaller institutions will also he on the eligible list. The South has colleges like Alabama, V. P. I., Georgia, Tennessee, Western Mary
land, Tulane and many others on which to draw.
Football Games 
To Be Broadcast 
On Thanksgiving
Two important football games go on the air over WABC-Columhia within a week when that network will carry descriptions traditional of the Thanksgiving Day contests, Thursday, November 24, with a gridiron double-header, comprised of the Brown-Colgato and Pennsylvanla-Cornell games.Tho first of tho Turkey Day tussles, that between Brown and Colgato, will bo broadcast from Providencio, R. I., by Ralph Gilroy, sports 
announcer for Columbias Yankee (Now England) network, starting at 11:00 a. m., EST. Both undefeated at tills writing, Brown and Colgato stand out as loading Eastern contondors for championship 
honors, and the "Maroon Marauders lmvo yet to ho scored upon. Gilroy, bright-shining light of Princetons football team a docado ago, also hits had considerable ox-- porionco In coaching and in professional football, thus bringing an experienced and colorful back
ground to his announcing assignments. Tiio afternoon half of the Thanksgiving Day gridiron bill goes on the air. at 1:45 p. in., EST, when Ted I-Iusing airs the Penn-Cornell affair from Franklin Feld, Philadelphia. Both teams 
have met defeat this year, but their annual holiday meeting is always regarded as a standard football cassic of the Eastern season.
Radio programs settle back to normalcy with a sigh following the 
climax of the late clash in the political arena, and you can now be fairly certain of finding your favorite program at its allotted hour. 
One of the heaviest sufferers from campaign oratory was the AllAmerica Football Show, which 
bowed out of the broadcasting picture for two consecutive Friday evenings.
Ski bos Courage Agai nst 
Rival Gains Plaudits 
Of Spectators
SAMPLE AND KAVEL 
STAR IN HOME FINAL
Breaks Help Highly-Touted 
Panthers To Win By 
Lone Touchdown
Carnogie students are proud of their football team  pu-lenty 
proud. And well they might be for the old Skibo school was represented In the nineteenth annual Pitt classic by one of the scrappiest elevens ever to don the battle red of Carnegie. It was a team who entered the game with the
stinging criticism of its earlygames ringing in its ears, and then proceeded to fight its way up in a single contest to a place in the Tartan hall of fame beside that great club of last season. All the latent power and drive so conspicuously absent in the October game, burst forth in all its fury against the Panthers and proved beyond any doubt that the Skibosare at last the team that preseason dope claimed.
Pitt Outfought Carnegie didnt win that game 
last Saturday. But there is not a Pitt backer in the country today who is bragging about the meagre 6-0 score which Fate handed the Gold and Blue. A prospective championship team boasting a galaxy of 
stars was outfought and outgamed by a group of Tartans who didnt know the meaning of the word quitand thats why Carnegie Tech is proud of its football team today.
Tartan followers wanted a victory more than anything else in the world, make no misake about that. But when the Clansmen 
iouglit and'gave the very best.they had and endearqd themselves to their fellow Carnegians in defeat as they did, then something greater and more lasting than a mere material victory lias been gained.Sample and Kavel Star If ever two All-American play
ers strode the barred field, Carnegiq had those two last SaturdaycoCaptains Bill Sample and George Kavel. It is doubtful if Pittsburgh 
fans ever saw a greater guard than Hooks as he hobbled in and out of the Pitt backfield tossing half
backs all over the landscape with little regard to their newspaper ratings. And Kavelrugged, nasty, 
bruisingbacked up the line like Karels and ran the hall in the man
ner of a frightened express train. So wiien Carnegie fundamentals are being condemned in the future let no man forget the deadly blocking and vicious tackling of our "Kingle.
Exit Captain Relder Not that tho other men who performed against Pitt werent outstanding because they were. Burzio was especially unpopular with 
tho Panther backfield and his clean though deadly tackle of Captain Relder In the third quarter 
was too big a dose for the "forgo tton man" to handle. Stewart and Tesser played brainy games at the 
terminals and Rod .Tones was his usual great defensive self. And Plummer and Croft continually 
smashed Pitts Interference and proved most embarrassing to the potential All-American , Heller. OToole, Ileinzer, Dresher, in fact the whole starting team outdid 
themselves. Tom Coulter, injected in tile third quarter, showed such surprising driving power that 
spectators went home muttering, Why wasnt Tom out last year.
Breaks Decide The story of the game reveals I hat both teams got one big break 
apiece. Carnegies unfortunately came at the start of the game when the Skibo shock troops recovered Hellers fumble on the Pitt 12 but lacked the punch to push it over. Pitts big chance came in the third quarter when the slippery oval eluded Dueger, as he prepared to gather in a punt, and Rooker, Pitts elert end fell on the ball. With only two yards to 
make and four downs to do it in,
Cross-Country 
Squad Loses 
To Pitt, 15-45
Allan Elected Captain 
For 1933; First Plaid 
Man To Finish
Carnegies cross country squad 
ended its season Saturday with a 
disastrous 15-45 defeait at the 
hands of a strong Pitt team. Ill
ness among several of the Plaids 
best cinder pounders reduced their 
chances to practically nix.
Lawrence of Pitt nabbed first 
place with the fine time of 28:28 
3/10 and was closely followed by 
Clise, also of Pitt. Shorey Allan, 
who was sixth, was the first Car
negie man to cross the finish line. 
Captain Schell followed close on 
his heels to nab position No. 7. 
Burke, Stankey, Netzer, Giolma, H. 
Neff, and Wilson followed in that 
order.
Bob Schell, who has been acting 
captain of the team this season, 
was formally elected official cap
tain after the meet Saturday. 
Schell has been a consistent first 
placer all year, although he has 
been handicapped by illness dur
ing the. last two weeks.
At the same time, Shorey Allan 
was elected captain for next sea
son. 1-Ie has been right up in the 
list every meet this year. 1-Ie was 
the first Skibo runner to cross the 
line against Pitt.
The list of lettermen has not 
been announced as yet.
Violets-Skibos About 
Even In Strength 
This Season
Only once in the last six years 
have the Clansmen of Carnegie in
vaded New York and come away 
with a bouquet of violets symbolic 
of victory over N. Y. U. So when 
the Tartans line up for the opening 
kick-off in the Yankee . Stadium, 
Thanksgiving Day they will be 
facing another of those teams who 
seem to hold an uncanny advantage 
over Skibo* elevens. Three times 
in the metropolis and twice here 
at home have the Plaid been 
forced to bow to New York while 
the lone Scotch victory was gained 
on foreign soil.
When Carnegie first faced N. Y. 
U. the dapper Chick Meehan and 
his famous military huddle were 
just coming into glory. Not that 
Chick was a new hand at the coach
ing game but it was at New York that he turned out his greatest teams. That 1920 game was unique in that Carnegie had been scouted so thoroughly by the Violets that the New Yorkers knew every Plaid player by his nickname and were just as familiar with their opponents plays. Consequently the Tartan offense never got under way and two field goals by Ken Strong were the margin of defeat.In 27 New York was having a good year and won handily from a 
mediocre Tartan team, 20-6. The Meehanites boasted a great array of coming stars and were too much for the unseasoned Skibos.In 1928 however, the picture was entirely different. The setting was a cold, clear Thanksgiving Day with 40,000 witnesses packed into Forbes Field to watch a battle which was destined to go down in the grid history of Pittsburgh. Carnegie, the favorite, flushed from 
successive victories over W. & J., Pitt, Georgetown and Notre Dame, needed only to down N. Y. U. for 
a national championship and the Rose Bowl bid.
The result of that epic battle is now past history. Carnegie drew first blood when Tony Sweet caught a I-Iarpster pass but New York with Ken Strong lugging the oval, soon tied things up. In the second half the effect of a hard campaign and the merciless hammering of the late Ed Hill at block
ing half, and the Violet captain and All-American tackle, A1 Lassman, showed up and New York 
went home with Carnegies Rose Bowl hopes and a 27-13 victory.Fate decreed, strangely enough, that Carnegie should repay the compliment, for the next season in New York, with only the Tech game to get by for the tournament
Pitt was barely able to punch the pigskin across the final marker on last down, a great tribute to 
tiie staying qualities of the Tartan line.
A summary of the contest from an unpartisan point of view would 
show that Pitt, outfought from whistle to whistle, has merely another good team but nothing of the calibre for which they gave promise of possessing earlier in the season. It seems to be the
old story that a team is good or bad by comparison only and when it is forced to combat with the fury and desperation presented by Carnegie last Saturday, it is lucky to appear even mediocre. And so, once again "the breaks, the guiding spirit of this very complex game called football, went against Carnegie just when courage would seem to have deserved its reward, and thereby another Pitt battle 
goes into history.
Lowest Rates 
for First Class 
Travel

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 22, 10323
Student Reviews 
Burkes Latest 
Book Published
Students Asked 
To Obey Parking 
Rules On Campus
For some time past there seems 
to be a let up in the manner in 
which the parking rules have been 
observed on the campus and these 
infractions have necessitated the 
publication of the regulations 
which obtain so that the largest 
number of students can be accom
modated :
No parking is permitted on the 
Industries side of the drive parelleling Industries and Langley Lab. 
However, right angle to curb parkj ing is permitted on the Park side 
of this drive. Machines should be parked' with the rear to the embankment. They should also be parked reasonabljr close together so that as large a number as possible can be accommodated.No parking is permitted on the 
Quadranglenor between barriers on this drive at any time. This rule must be observed.
No parking is permitted on the drive between the Fine Arts Build
ing and Langley Lab.Parking is permitted on both sides of Woodlawn avenue, and on both sides of drive between Fine Arts Building and the Gymnasium. 
Driveways, however, are to be kept clear.Cars should be parked as close 
as possible to the next one so that much waste space will be eliminated. If all night students will 
obey these rules and regulations much annoyance will be eliminated. Please do your part.
Students Should Make 
Ticket Returns Early>igul Arts Dance 
In Thistle Hall 
Is Great Success
INTERCOLLEGIATE
CLIPSNY CAREEDE TO2N0RF 
AL0 BN.0RF EMDL.LI
IN.IO5 DLI.LDDNE 
HYE5KYLD |RLq2D5
Because of unforseen circum
stances, the banquet scheduled 
to be held on December 3 by 
the Night College of Engineer
ing has been postponed. The 
officers-of the college are con
sidering several plans at the 
present time which will be more 
advantageous for their group 
and as soon as a definite - program has been decided upon announcement will be made in the Tartan.
All students selling tickets for 
the Thanksgiving Week Recess 
Dance are requested to make re
turns immediately after tlio dance. 
Tickets sold count toward an in
signia award and prompt returns 
for all sales is urged so that proper 
credit can be given.
Returns should be sent to John
F. Simpson, Treasurer, Night Stu
dent Council, Box 137, C. I. T. post office.
Did you know that:
1. Red-haired persons are not 
necessarily quick-tempered.
2. Brains and beauty usually go 
together.
3. If you aro born dumb, noth
ing can make you brilliant.
1. Blondes aro as trustworthy 
as brunettes.
5. Slender, sensitive hands dont 
indicate artistic ability.
6. A square jaw does not mean will-power.
Two Columbia professors lmvo 
scientifically approved the above statements, thus blasting a number of our favorite superstitious.
No classes will be in session this Thursday and Friday evenings, November 24 and 25. This is the Thanksgiving recess vacation and gives the night students a double holiday. All classes will resume sessions on the regular schedules Monday 
evening, November 28.The Plaid staff wishes all a happy Thanksgiving period.
Despite a cold wlntery night the 
dance held recently by the Night 
College of Fine Arts was an ex
tremely successful affair. The 
biting wind did not seem to make 
any difference In the size of the 
crowd or its enthusiasm.
As is usual for a night arts 
dance, the affair wi|s very colorful. 
Decorations were carried out in 
green and pink and with the soft 
lights of Thistle Hall the whole 
made a striking picture. The big 
plaid spot with its green rays at 
the rear of the orchestra* platform 
was an appropriate finishing touch 
to a pleasingly decorated hall.
Bill Rose and his Rose Buds 
again outdid themselves and the 
music they furnished was reflected 
in the carefree, happy antics of the merrymakers. The evening sped away all too soon and before the dancers realized that another night arts dance had become . history, the orchestra began to play its closing number and the lights blinked. This was the signal for a grand rush for coats and hats as the happy crowd left Thistle Hall, some to continue their merrymak
ing elsewhere, bidding each other good night and "well see you at the next dance.
We are in for a lid blowing off 
this week at the Gym when the 
Night Student Council stages its 
first big dance of the year. There 
has been a great deal of talk about 
this affair and, from remarks I have heard as I glid& about picking 
up what I can find, the guests will be in for a good time during the evening. The Thanksgiving Recess 
Dance certainly will give us, a chance to unlax from the steady 
pace we have been going here of late. You know, too much X-Y-Z, 
and the rest of the stuff we call education, not that it isnt all important, would soon make us all onetrack minds, and of all the monstrosities, deliver me from that brand.One would think all the automomobiles in Pittsburgh were driven over to our campus the past week. 
Everywhere you looked you saw cars. Some were on the lawns, 
some on the cinder paths, some in the driveways and some on the 
wrong side. Wrong side-yes I said wrong side. We read somewhere in the little handbook that parking is prohibited on the side of the drive nearest the Industries and Langley Lab. Buildings. Some people are evidently blind, or dont 
want to see. What caused the general influx of patrons is a mystery to me. I didnt see any increased registration line, so it couldnt be 
blamed to that activity. Maybe it was the Pillars" that caused the increased nightly population. At all 
events, the campus was popular with the automobilists.Such popularity must be deserved or else. But this is the rub. Here we are a group of night students coming night after night, week in and week out, month upon month, from near and distant points, all with the expectation that 
we will have a place to park our cars and go to classes. Imagine our chagrin when we found our 
accustomed stalls occupied by some casual visitors, pleasure bound per
haps, and with only a thought of the moment. Their cars parked in any old fashion, illegal or other
wise, and because of this fact, we were forced to drive away from the campus in order it> find a place to put the car for a couple of hours and then dash madly back, ten or fifteen minutes late for class. Its a sad world for us. We have learned to park according to rules because we were educated to the fact that tags were passed out to those who didnt; then all of a sudden the whole scheme has suffered a demoralization and cars are 
DMDNFwODND. Wonder why some of 
those tags were not passed out? But then, I am only an Idle Night Student, wondering.
Bet our alumni had a good time 
the past week-end. If they didnt 
it was not the fault of the commit
tees or the programs. And speak
ing of programs, why I never saw 
such a complete layout as was 
placed at their disposal. Every 
minute seemed to be taken up. It must be great to belong to such a group. Included in the program is placing of another group of class plates in Administration Hall. The 
scheme of placing class plates from year to year was a bully idea and gives us something to look forward to. Before long we will know what it will be like to walk on a brass; floor instead of brick. Every time you pass over the plates your class, 
that is if you can affiliate yourself with one, will salute youhowdy 18, hello 23, or glad to see you 32. 
Sure is fine.
I see that there is some talk of building a house of steel. Gee that is a big jump from the usual type of house. Imagine a house built of steel where everything would be fireproof, in fact I suppose it would be proof against everything one could think of. A sneak thief would have a hard time getting into such a building. Think'of the possibilities that are presented if this type of house can become popular. We will start a steel and iron age all over again and Pittsburgh will 
come into its own once more.
Yes, I am getting my Tartan each week and I dont know what I would do if I didnt. It Is sorta nice to be able to read all the campus news and the arrangement which exists between the various groups seems to be working like clock work. The weekly has taken on a new, unexplainable something 
which appeals to one unconsciously. After you have read all the news you put the paper down feeling that some pleasant moments 
have been spent and you eagerly await the receipt of the next issue. There seems to be an element of refinement in the makeup and editing of the paper which denotes that somebody has spent considerable time and effort to bring about such a feeling in the minds of the reading public of our Tartan. Of course,I have had nothing to do with this feeling, contributing only idle thoughts from week to week, and this, by the way, brings me to the 
point of signing off with So long until next weekThat was the Idle Night Student of Station PLAID who will return again next week at this same hour. The Tar
tan bids you all Good Night.
yYNWDNE TY GDKYN5 
TO2NE0RF IL GFm
Night students of all three 
colleges who are interested in 
earning points toward an insig
nia award are to report in the 
mens gymnasium Thursday morning, Thanksgiving, by. 10:30 o'clock. Students who find it inconvenient to come out at this time are requested to report at the earliest possible 
time in the afternoon. All members of the Night Student Council are expected to report and assist in the necessary preparation.
Technical Meu 
In District Are 
Now Registering
The Collegian, Grove City publication, lias the nerve to submit 
this: If all those who eat in hoarding houses were placed side by side at one table they would roach.
From the Pitt Weekly, we learn 
why a recent party was so. well attended. The invitation read: The party will be gin at 10 oclock.
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OHTOMETIIiT 
iKDo.RA.z.LI .L ExRm.L.LI EFo2 RL0 
B2NL.EO.LI GAREEDE.
iKDo.RA i520DL5 G2ADE
eec SIAMONS |ANK |UILSINGThanksgiving Dance 
This Friday Evening
CYL5.L2D0 BNYm HRKD e 
Allan H. Blaisdell, Mr. and Mrs. L. I-I. Miller, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles 
W. Prine and Mr. and Mrs. G. R. Patterson will be guests and 
chaperon the dance.The assessment for the dance will be one dollar per couple and tickets are being sold by night students in the various colleges. All students are invited to participate in the festivities. See one of these salesmen and obtain your ticket, then make your date and attend the party. Tickets of admittance may also be secured at the door.
Follow the Team
Beta Sigma Rho Leads 
In Fraternity Ratings
CYL5.L2D0 BNYm HRID e
A. HDL0DNEYL HRAA ________________c.<e85. yDAoO HRAA ____________________c.c0Womens Dormitories
e. HRw5OYNL HRAA_________________4.e7h. BYNbDE HRAA '____________________<e.ecc. MDAAYL HRAA ___________________e.ee
4. CD0RN HRAA_____________________c.0l
5. L.L0DL HRAA ____________________c.7lG. |.NoO HRAA ______________________c.68
7. LR2NDA HRAA _____________________c.078. MRILYA.R HRAA __________________c.Ghl. EAm HRAA ______________________.c.57Sororities, College of Fine Arts
e. AAKOR KRKKR HE._______________-en0e
h. GRmmR GRmmR GRmmL__________4.4ec. |D5R H. _________________________4.c5
4. |D5R TR2 LRmb0R-----------------------------4.ch
Leave Wednesday, November 23
Round Trip 
Bus TransportationDIDJA NOTICE
THAT the first big dance of the year takes place in the gym this Friday p. m. Everybody is going to be there, including Tarzan and his gang.THAT those signs advertising the shindig are darn clever. Congrats. Mr. Signmaker, youse is an artist, maybe.THAT the two days of vacation we are going to have this week suits me perfectly. Wonder how it will affect the Idle Night Student who loafs on a scientific schedule?THAT I crashed Night Arts dance just as I promised. Oneeyed Connley has nothing on me.THAT a brother engineer gave his impressions of an art exhibit last week, and from the tone of the report he must have gone through the show like a cyclone. Say, old man, why dont you go back and take a good look because its a good show.THAT the night mud siinger got his name on the first page again last week. Think youre smart, dontcha, you big sarsaparilla.THAT there are quite a group of night students living in the mens dormitories. Why not start a night students dormitory club boys with headquarters at George's place?THAT once again Im reminding you about the dance Friday night. Ill be there looking for you, and you, yes and you, too.THAT our famous hunters have returned, bag and baggageand did they make a hit, well, you?re asking . . . Im telling you . . . The net proceeds were five goats, nothing personal; four sheep, they looked like them; and three nuts, at least, or was it squirrels? Well, anyway, it was sumpin.
THAT thats that and Ill be seenya.
Higher Education Not 
Prosperity Assurance
CYL5.L2D0 BNYm HRfjo e 
be that education, instead of making men, is rather a sifting process in which the best survive. It is said that "In promising a boy financial returns for his college work, we are representing education as the pill to be swallowed in the hope of abounding health and prosperity.Educators Protest Theory The protest from educators against placing a monetary value on education has been growing in volume. Professor George S. 
Counts of Teachers College, Columbia University, points out that the philosophy of our new pecuniary order has dominated the theory of education, setting up the hope of monetary gain as the reason why youth should go to college. Education should be an end in itself rather than the well known means to an end. The clearing away of existing false ideas, says Professor Counts, will enable us to concentrate on the real value of education. Actually, financial rewards, particularly in the professional ranks, do not bear out the rosy pictures of the earning power of alumni, pointed out some of the leading colleges and universities. A report from the Columbia University Law School prepared in the gay days before 1930, shows that the average income of the older alumni, computed by classes, hovered above the $10,000 mark. Only one of the classes out of college from ten to thirty years earned as low an average as .$6,800 per member; all but six_classes were drawing an average of more than $10,- .000; and one class in the entire group averaged $29,400' a year.The average salaries for professions are, as a whole, less flattering to education. Some of the average salaries in professions, in which a college degree is virtually required or in which college graduates are engaged, have been estimated by Professor Harold F. Clark, of the Teachers College, Columbia University. Among them are: Law, $5.250-; Medicine. $5,-
Round Trip 
Bus Transportation 
Hotel Accommodations
INFORMATION AND RESERVATIONS
"Y" OFFICE
Conducted by
H.55Eb2NIO TNRMDA RL0 iDNM.oD |2NDR2
6232 Penn AVENUE Montrose 8734
Cut rate tickets to all points for Thanksgiving Holidays
oneome
250; Dentistry, $4,725; College Teaching, $3,260; Journalism, $2.- 220; Social Work, $1,517; Teaching (Median), .$1,360.
More than one hundred students at William and Mary studied Czechoslovakian last year, and nohody flunked._____________________
ERES a New Year resolution thats a pleasJL/ are to keep. RESOLVED: Im going to 
telephone home each week Iv
Think of the thrill it will give your Mother and Dad 
of the joy it will be to hear their voices each week! 
Its more than a substitute for eut-and-dried letters. 
A telephone chat with home is next best to being 
there.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
Get the telephone habit. Its surprisingly inexpen
siveespecially after 8:30 P. M. That is when low 
Night Rates go into effect on Station to Station calls. 
For 35 cents you can then call as far as 100 miles 
away!
To take advantage of the night-time reduction, be 
sure to make a Station to Station call. (Just give the 
home telephone number and do not ask the operator 
for any specific person.) If you like, of course, 
charges can be reversed.
F'eoplesPitfcsburgh 
Trust Co.wettere services or exrienced officers areAs smokers become more experienced, they demand 
milder cigarettes. Chesterfields are milder. Their mild
ness is just as much a feature as the beauty of their 
package.
The tobaccos are mild to begin with. Patient ageing 
and curing make them milder still. And Chesterfields 
contain just the right amount of Turkish  not too 
muchcarefully blended and cross-blended with ripe, 
sweet Domestic tobaccos.
Chesterfields are milder. They taste better. Thats 
why "The/V Satisfy.
avai lab 
positorsOakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
i5R5.YL 5Y i5R5.YL CRAA 
c-M.L25D CYLLDo5.YL 
yODNDMDN RKKA.oRbAD BD0DNRA 5Rx .E .LoA20D0. 
Day Rate Night Rate 
. $0.65 $0.35
From Pittsburgh to
Altoona ..............
Cumberland, Md.Meadville ..........Salem, Ohio-----Zanesville, Ohio
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
 1932, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

---------------------------------------------------

4TITE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1932
2Ttie Carnegie 2Tartau
Edltor-ln-Chlof-----Business lppmuter _
PIIONK MAYFLOWER 2000 
After Oillco Hour Call 
_8chcnley OI.'IO Spoils Editor 
____lln/rl UI73 Plnld Editor___
.___8clicnlcy 0G80 ___Hclieiilcy 2380
Fall Rushing
Will
November 30
Begin
Published v/eolcly during tho college your by undergraduates of Carneglo Iimt.ltuto ol Tochnolo gy. En to rod In tho Pittsburgh Pont Oillco an sccoml-elnmi matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF---------BUSINESS MANAGEK--
NEWS EDITOR-------------
ATHLETIC EDITORPLAID EDITOIt-------------
..ELIZABETH I'HELLElt 
____JOSEPH C. BRONSON...............................................EDWARD 15. McDONALD
Contacting In Freshman 
Dormitory Rooms 
Prohibited
AiiOCIATI! ESITONi 
Copy Editor: Christine Lolghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta StfllnborgDolly Allison Exchange Editor: Marjorie Dougherty
llarry Ilower Ruth PhillipAssignment Killtor: Anthony Cnrnvnlo
MANAGING HOARD THIS ISSUE John Hill?., Edmund McCormick, Alleo Honzl, Lorotta Conlln.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Jonoph Ailamii, Anthony Cacoblono, Lorotta Conlln, Alleo llonzl, 
Jolin Hlltx, Edmund MoCormlek, Samuol Wlcltn, Jaeiiuo Mlnnott.
SPECIAL "WRITERS: Mary McCullough, Stanton Wllllamn.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloon, Women Editor; Nod Stirling, John Lowes,
James Hal forty, Jorry Hansen, Clifton Carr.
PLAID STAFF: Jnmci II. Snnnonettl, New Editor; Frank Consol, A. N. Evon, It 
E. McGnnnon. ...ADVERTISING STAFF : Jninen E. Stahl. Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; 
Morion Carmine, William McKenna, Edgar Moyor, Joromo E, ICappol.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Flnglnsn, Manager; Sldnoy Foldmnn, Leonard Ro
senberg, Albert Pryco-Jonon, Alw Leipzig.
REPORTERS: Margaret. Grlilln, Veronica Kloon, Anna Ladd, Tholma Sholloy, GorI'ruiln Breakstone, Jayno lloridornon, Potor Poulun, Harold Baor, Jannotto 13lack, 
Marian MalakofT, Gvvon'Haddoek, Ruth Guntafiion, Jane Miller, Roy Minot, Vir
ginia Siegel, William Landsberg, Jano Livingston, Davlnon Ironu.
TYPISTS: Luelllo Jacob, Ann Kaufman. ______
A Word To Prospective Fraternity Men
One week from tomorrow the contacting period for the 
current fraternity rushing season will begin. New registrants 
will be invited to the various houses in order that the men in 
the different groups may meet them and perhaps later ask them 
to become members.
Not all new registrants will be asked to join a fraternity. 
This is because of the lack of freedom the fraternity men have 
in contacting new men before the rushing season opens. The 
fact that a man is not asked to join a fraternity should not dis
courage him, for while there is much to be derived from frater
nity associations while in school and during later years in busi
ness and social life, the non-fraternity man can be successful.
During the contacting period, it will be to the advantage 
of all rushees to make dates with as many fraternities as possi
ble. Mr. Allen E. Kisedorph in a talk 1o a group of some 125 
freshmen last Thursday in. the Little Theater urged, that the 
rushees visit all houses they are invited to at least once or twice 
during the first few days of rushing and then narrow the num
ber to two or three during the last part of: the period.
The selection ol! a fraternity should be done with care. Too 
often men arc rushed headlong into a fraternity life which will 
later be disappointing. The glitter of shining trophies and the 
palatial fraternity house do not constitute the whole ol! frater
nity life and they should not overshadow the ideals of fellow
ship and congeniality. In selecting a fraternity, one must rea
lize that he is choosing a group with which he must .live 
for the rest of his school life. Their ideals and interests should 
be the same as his, for otherwise he will be unhappy.
There are several important things which should be consid
ered in selecting a fraternity (some <>l! the following were men
tioned in Mr, RisedorplyS talk):
1. The congeniality of the members. Is it natural or ar
tificial V
2. Tho ido'als,and interests of the group.
!{. Tho personality ol! the members.
4. Tlie scholastic standing, denoting conditions for study
ing.
5. The financial stability of the house.
(j. Is the group woll roundod 1
As Mr. Kisedorph put it, be not misled by gilt tassels. Selool; the fraternity with care, for fraternity life will he ol! great 
value to you if you ohooso tho right group.
Have You Contributed?
Tomorrow the Welfare Drive on (lie campus will end. For 
the past several weeks'students have been asked to contribute 
something to the general Welfare Mind ol Allegheny County 
hn that the welfare organization may successfully carry on ili 
very worth-while and necessary work during the coming year 
Certainly little need be said of the urgent need ol' a generous 
Contribution from every student and instructor. II anyone, has 
not been solicited, lie may make his contribution at the Y. M. (' 
A. ofileo. The fortunate should help the unfortunate 1
The Student Body Has Awakened
It was gratifying to sec the revival of spirit among the 
Carnegie students last week-end. Spirit has been dormant for 
so long that one wondered whither it had gone. Perhaps the 
revival came about because of the splendid game played by the 
Plaid gridders, who displayed a degree co-ordination, fight, and 
spirit which has taken over a month to develop, or maybe it 
was because* of the thrill given the spectators by the snappy 
Kiltie Band and its unusual balloon demonstration. One could 
not ask for a much better football game or a more spirited, 
well-behaved student body. Carnegie, we are proud of yon!
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
A few weeks back this column intimated the possibility of a war 
in the Balkans. During the intervening time a series of events have taken place which might kindle the smouldering ashes into a flaming revolution such as the Balkans are known Tor. Recently, a treason trial was held at Tirana, the result of which seemed to indicate the collapse ol the Albanian regime, together with its disgulsod Italian protectorate. Meanwhile, the Jugo
slavia all of the Croats and Slovenes who rushed to tho protection of the Serbian government after the war are struggling to be free. 
Despite the rigid censorship established by King Alexander, reports of the condition of unrest have leaked through. A collapse oC tho Jugo-Slavian kingdom would moan an overwhelming Lomptatlon to tho neighboring Powers to intervene. 
Tho situation is more serious than it looks and might even draw other 
countries Into the struggle.
The recent election in Germany shattered Adolf Hitlers hopes of becoming dictator of that country. 
For tho first time since, it leaped into prominence two years ago, the National Socialistic party suffered 
a set back at the polls, losing thirty-flve seats in the Reichstag. Yon 
Papens Nationalist party secured fourteen more seats in the Reichstag, but still is only in flftli place 
as far as numbers go.
Europe is continuing its attempts to ensnar the United States into agreements which will eventually
lead to the cancellation of the war debts owed to us by them. President Hoover has said that he will male neither treaty nor agreement with any European power until President-elect Roosevelt explains 
his point of view on the situation He is doing this so that there will be no gap between the policies of the old and new administrations, Tho essentials ot the French plan for disarmament, obviously aimed at the United Slates, are as follows: "First, additional pledges
for the arbitration of international differences. Second, a promise by 
tho United States to consult, with the other powers in case of aggression under the Kollog-Prland 
treaty. Third, a general reduction of armament, including a. return to compulsory military service in Ger many. Fourth, the establishment of tho nucleus of an international force, subject to tho control of tin League of Nations." The signing of any such agreement would mortgage tho freedom of our government.
Leon Trotzlcy, pioneer of the 
Russian Communistic movement who was exiled from that country when his supporters were defeated, is in constant fear of Soviet, plots 
which threaten to take his life, Consequently, he has secluded himself in his cabin on the Steamer Praga, which is taking liUjx to Mar
seilles. He was forced I leave his son in Istambul (Cowjintiho' pie) where he is supposed to be 
exiled to assure his return after his European trip.
(Continued From Page One) 
night Saturday during1 open rushing.
Section 10All rushing and bidding shall cease at 1:00 a. in., Sunday, December 11.
Section 11There shall be no communication between rushees and fraternities from 1:00 a. in., Sunday, December 11, to 10:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11, at which time a rushee will signify his choice by presenting himself at the house of his choice. From that time on, all men so pledged shall wear pledge buttons that shall be strictly honored by all fraternities, unless the pledge Is announced iregular by the Interfraternity Council.
Open Rushing To Begin 
Section 12Unless a rushee presents himself at the house of his choice at 10:00 a. m. or after, Sunday, December 11, no fraternity shall have communication with that rushee until 8:30 a. m., Monday, December 12, after which time open rushing in regard to fall registrants shall prevail.Section 13The rushing of the second semester registrants shall begin Wednesday, April 10, and shall he subject to regulationsmade by the Interfraternity Council.
Section 14(a) Before 4:20 p. m., Wednesday, November 30, no 
new registrant shall be invited hy any member of any fraternity to any function given off campus.(b) Before 4:20 p. m., Wednesday, November 30, no new registrant shall be invited to, by, or attend with, any member of any fra-ernity any function given on the rjampus, except those functions given for the orientation of freshmen.(c) Before 8:30 a. m., Friday, December 2, no new registrant shall attend with any member ofy fraternity any function given off campus.(d) After 8:30 a. m., Friday, December 2, no new registrant shall attend with any member of any fraternity any function given off campus, except those functions given in fraternity houses.
Off Campus Funptlons Barred(e) A rushee will not be allowed to attend any function off the campus with a fraternity 111:111. In other words, fraternity men are not to entertain freshmen at any place except the fraternity house. This Includes buying food for the freshmen 011 or off the campus, ex-ftp t at a fraternity house or lunch 
n school days.(f) Lunch hour is to bo defined s the period from 11:00 a. 111. to2:00 p. m. each day.I11 short, tills section means that 
fraternities are to do 110 contacting before tho contacting period begins, and 110 rushing before the rushing period begins.Section 1REach fraternity and ivory member of each fraternity igreos to observe these regulations 11 spirit as woll ns in letter, and lino agrees to report at. orico any nlraotion thereof to the investigation committee of the Tnlerfrator11 Ity Council, Furthermore, the 
iorgrnduiite members of every fraternity agree to use their In flu nice with their friends, pledges, lumnl, and members of other huliters to soo that they observe tlie spirit and letter of those rules.Section 1(1-All power of decision of oases arising out of the interpretation and application of 
these regulations shall bo vested in 1 ho Regulations Committee. Any fraternity guilty of the infraction of any of those rules shall bo penalized $.50 for each infraction. All barges shall be put in writing by lie fraternity making the charge and shall be presented to the chairman of the regulations committee consisting of three faculty members and three council representatives, whose duty (chairman) 't shall he to see to it that the charge shall come to trial at the earliest possible date, and that a decision be handed down within a period of one month from the date the charge is brought before the committee. The decision of the committee will be accepted by the 
Council.
$50 Fine for Infractions Section 17If any fraternity is found guilty of breaking any of these rules between 1:00 a. 111., Sunday, December 11. and S:30 a, m., Monday, December 12, the penalty shall be a fine of $50 plus the loss of the privilege of competing in intramural and interfraternity competition for the remainder of the school year.Section ISVoting and non-vot*ng members of the Interfraternity Council shall be required to post 
a bond of $50 with the treasurer of the Council within a week after the adoption of these rushing rules.Section 10^11 publicity regardPRE-GAME PEPDespite the fact that the Carnegie boys heeded Dr. Bakers plea delivered a year ago today and kept their names out of the papers, there was an abundant display of the good old Tartan spirit. Early in tlie week the Forbes street houses got out their illuminated signs of the Scotchman and tlie Panther.The old D. U. standby was the cause of much excitement one night toward the end of the week when a couple of the seniors,  recalling a prank that had been p rec ipitated upon them a couple of years ago sought to victimize the other members of the lodge. Waiting til the unsuspecting underclassmen had tucked themselves snugly between the covers, the villains stalked forth with overcoat collars upturned and hats pulled down. Lining up in front of thehouse they began to chant Pitt cheers. Theboys upstairs rolled over and sought to bury their ears In the pillows. Louder and louder came the cheers, but still no response from above. Finally the boys were about to give up in disgust when eight loyal sons of Skibo emerged from the Sigma Nu house 011 the run. The D. U. brethren taken by surprise and feeling perhaps a trifle ashamed dashed up the street, never pausing to look around until they were well up into Squirrel Hill.* * * * *
The Arts freshmen continued to show theirschool spirit with the frosh architects, including their three co-eds, parading about tlie campus Friday with a big banner bearing a Slogan appropriate to the occasion. They went so far as to invade Machinery Hall, something which no art student has ever done before.*****
HAVE YOU NOTICED?I-Iow sleepy good Bill Reed is every Monday morning. Last Monday he reported to one of his teachers that hed only had half an hours sleep 
since Thursday night. Yessir, its a grass widow this time.The new entry way into the engineering building. Mr. Orbin has just installed a new flood floor and storm door at the entrance from the new parking lot.That the Kilties continue to be the finest band in the country. The balloon stunts on Saturday were just another sign of the fact that they keep several jumps ahead of the pack.* * . * * *
FRIDAY NIGHTIt was a cold and drizzly night but a goodly crowd was there. The first ofiicial Student
Council bonfire, with a talk by Wally, served to get the bunch together before the battle for a little of the good old Al Minetti cheer leading. After the official program was over, the gang started to play the old game of stopping cars and keeping them 011 the spot until they admitted the occupants were for Carnegie 100 per cent.
While all this was going on in the Bowl, the happy dancers at the Glee Club shindig were peeping at the bonfire from the windows in'Thistle Hall and having a little pep rally of their own with the singing Fight for the Glory of Carnegie' and cheers led by Will Ryshanek, excheerleader, full dress suit and ail.
All the musically minded were on hand, Ed /.Tohe and Dorothy Morse, John Harvey and Gertrude Ufileman, William Wiegman and Esther Ham merle, Ronald Teare and Louise Wingold, William J. Burns, Bill to you, and Helen Charters. Lots of faculty members, too, Doctor and Mrs. Watkins, Dean Green, Dean Tarbell, Dean Keeble, Doctor Neeley, Professor Lang, Doctor Schultz, and Professor OBrien.
*****
WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THIS?
Yes, yes, it has happened. The Plebes, hoodwinking the other classes, held their traditional banquet at the Penn-Lincoln Hotel in Wilkinsburg last Saturday night while' all the rest of the campus was dancing and making merry. Its reported that Dick Jones was a special guest of honor. They even made him say grace and lead cheers. Well, Plebes, more power to you, maybe the Sophs will wake up some day.*****
THE BATTLE OF THE CENTURY
Youve probably read about great battles of music where famous dance bands are pitted against one another seeking to win more acclaim than the other. Never before, liowe er, has an . account been printed of a battle of the baton w i e 1 d e r s, a contest which took place at the pre-game party staged Friday evening in honor of the ex-,Dragons.Fran le J.Schneller, Jr.,and McClelland (formerly Buzz) Kohntz staged the original battle of this type when Buzz attempted to give his usual act in front of Franks new band (is ther.e anything our local hero cant do?). Frank became aroused at the thought of an interruption in his premier performance and attempted to put McClelland out of the running by some very graceful hip action, which resulted in his receiving th plaudits of the multitude for his little act.
Music School 
Alumni Obtain 
New Positions
Carnegie Music Course 
Is Well Liked By 
The Students
Dean Tai-bcU Reviews 
Carnegies Biography
Continued From Page 1
Carnegie College "brides. In an address to an early graduating class he remarked that all the girls in their white dresses looked like brides. By the way, he added, ii new idea popping into his brain, "if any ol! you are going to be married, let me know. Such a hint was not likely to be ignored. Next day one of the, girls wrote the news of an impending husband; Carnegie, good as his word, sent as a wedding present a check for $500. A matrimonial epidemic ensued, each new bride receiving the same gift. Finally came a letter saying that a certain improvident girl had made the mistake of marrying six months before his speech: if she had only known she 
would have waited! This was too much. Carneglo responded with 
tho usual check, enclosing it in a letter to Arthur Hamerschlag, head of the Institution, adding this warning: "Any further marriages 
are at tho risk and expense of the contracting parties."
Lot 110 ono think, that this new book is just another biography, to bo consumed as a duty In keeping 
ones self abreast of the literary times. It Is far from being that sort of a volume. Tho foregoing 
passages from ;lt will perhaps indicate how diverting it can be in places. It is, first and last, a very entertaining affair, written in a most engaging style. Carnegie Hilled his life with too many dramatic events to permit any account of it to ever become dull. Thus the author had the way made easy to produce a very readable chronicle, and he took full advantage of the opportunity. There are certain qualitiesfreshness, 
variety, sprightliness of treatment, and vividness of description-^-that move along through the pages in such fashion as to be irresistable. Of more importance, of course, is
ing rushing shall be handled by the Interfraternity Council.Section 20Each fraternity shall be limited to one orchestra dance during rushing season.Section 21The terms rushee" and Freshman refer to new registrants only. Upperclassmen who have been in school for one semester are not subject to these rules.Section 22The term "campus refers to the campus as described in the Handbook with the addition of Skibo Inn.Section 23  This set of rules shall be in force until theadoption of a new set of rules hy the Interfraternity Council.Section 24This set of rules is officially adopted by the Interfraternity Council on November 5, 1032.
the serious purpose of the undertaking, that of faithfully portray
ing the outstanding achievements of Mr. Carnegies life, and the sweep of his rare personality. The five years that Mr. Hendricks devoted to writing the two volumes have resulted in a thoroughly complete and authentic piece of work. 
He had at his elbow the private papers of his subject that had accummulated over a period of almost eight years.
When Richard Watson Gilder 
once said that Carnegies life was "well-worth Boswellizing," he referred to its extraordinary range of interesting aspects. Few men 
in the last' hundred years were privileged to crowd so many riches into a single lifetime. Not material riches solely, ' although that thought comes first to mind. Time will proably shade that angle of 
his life more and more into the background. Great business suc:ess may enable a man to amass a wealth of nearly half a billion dollars, as Carnegie did, but if that was all lie did no biography of him would be worth the paper on which it was printed, nor would the world bo much interested in reading it. The riches possessed by the great manufacturer and philanthropist of his age were of a higher mouldhis achievement in changing structural America from iron to steel, his extensive gifts for the betterment of mankind; 
liis long friendships with such world figures as Gladstone, Spencer, Balfour, M or ley, Roosevelt, Root, (who wrote the foreword to the book) Blaine, Mark Twain, Taft, Morgan; his influence as an unofficial intermediary in cementing the bonds between the American and British people; his crusadership in the cause of international peace; and his promulgation of the doctrine that private wealth is a public trust, and to die rich 
was to die disgraced. It was such notable concerns as these that gave purpose and color and accomplishment to his life, and that constituted his contribution to his time.If one were to look for a moral in the tale, it is a very sound and heartening one that comes at once to the front, and that lias a special
message in this depressed period. 
It was during the panics of 1873-78 and 1803-97 that Carnegie went ahead and laid .the foundations for the successes that were to come later. When others were inactive and pessimistic, he was busy and 
buoyant. He had faith in Americas future.
Heres a new one in . football. 
The United News tells us of Henry 
Hughes, of Hawaii, quarterback on 
the BostonBraves professional 
football team, who does his punt
ing barefooted. Shoeless and 
stoclcingless, he can boot a foot
ball fifty to sixty yards.
Romance at Northwestern. The 
most beautiful" and most pop
ular co-ed was recently married 
to the student who was voted the 
ideal" man.
C. S. EDRflAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
TWO ORCHESTRAS
Daum-Sanderson and Austin Wylie
AND THEIR ORCHESTRAS
Dancing at 10 oclock
AMATOLE
Hotel Schenley
Table Service 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26th 
TICKET SALEHotel Schenley 
PRE-SALE $2.00 Couple
-Hk
A Sure 
Foundation
One of the safest foundations 
on which to build your finan
cial independence is a savings 
account. Systematic saving 
begun while you are in college 
will pave tho way for ? suc
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pay liberal interest 
compounded Bemi-annually.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Ks=qdh. Pa.
Two graduates of the Public 
School Music course have recently 
been appointed to positions of im
portance in the teaching field. Al
lan Nern 27 is now Director of 
Vocal Music in the Lower Marion 
Township Schools at SArdmore, 
Pennsylvania, and Ben Graham, 
Jr. SO is in charge of music in
struction in Junior High School at 
Mamaroneck, New York. Another 
music graduate, Walter Poyntz 28, 
has been teaching at New Ro
chelle, New York, for four years. 
These communities are among the 
most progressive educationally in 
the country; their schools afford 
the finest types of buildings and 
equipment: and the fact that our 
alumni were offered such desirable 
positions in fields which naturally 
would be served by graduates from 
the large' nearby Eastern colleges 
speaks very well for the training 
they received at Carnegie.
Course Statrted Here In 1921
It is interesting in this connec
tion to recall that a course for 
training teachers of music for the public schools was started in the University of Pittsburgh and was only transferred to Carnegie in 1921. At that time the Carnegie Corporation, which had made a survey of the educational situation in Pittsburgh, recommended that 
the duplication of curricula in the two schools be eliminated as far 
as possible. An agreement was reached between President Hamerschlag and Chancellor Bowman, which the Chancellor recently confirmed in conversation with President Baker, whereby Carnegie gave certain of its courses t.o the University and in return took over, 
the Music Department and its faculty from the Universitys School of Education.At the University no instruction in the practice of music had been offered, and students were forced to get their training  along technical lines in studies off the campus. The Music Department at Carnegie hitherto had specialized only in.preparing for concert performance. The union of the two departments had very happy results and the option in Public School Music lias prospered greatly. Many  graduates have lieen placed in important positions, and the flourishing School of Music at Duquesne University may be re
garded. as an offshoot, since the head of that school and nearly all of his staff are graduates of Carnegie.
English Ways
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
Together with such obviously 
incorrect usages of language as 
the ungrammatical have did or 
I seen, the solecistic between 
him and I, the barbarous and un
necessary preventive and the 
improper to suicide, there are 
some very current phrases and 
coinages that are not quite within 
the boundaries of good grammar or 
accepted idiom. Their loose usage 
is objectionable for one reason or 
another.
We hear the ohrase due to employed so commonly-in the manner of its use in the following illustration that it seems correct Due to unforseen causes the voyage of the Indian Girl was de
layed. Here, "due to limits or modifies was delayed. This use is grammatically in error, for due is by nature an adjective and should not be used to qualify a predication. Furthermore, etymologic? ally due means owed or belonging to, as "a debt owed," or mealth belonging tothus being abjectical; and as used to modify was delayed in the foregoing illustration would be illogical. A 
correct substitute is owing to. It is not difficult to see that the misuse is by analogy. The similarity of the phra'ses, occasioning their, interchange, may eventualiy 
produce the approval of due in the adverbial sense, but at present the sense is not accepted.
Another illogical combination which is on the border line is 
quite a few. Translated it means "wholly a few. It may be likened to such hypothetical 
phrases as a large small, or "a great little. The mental process 
which combined quite and a few is very natural. An illustration will serve to demonstrate 
it. An immigrant employe, wishing to complain of a shortage in the amount paid him for his labor, said to his employer, My pay is too much too little. He wished 
to be emphatic; so he used the intensifying adverb. We may smile at the unidionmtic language of the foreigner, but the use of "quite a few is as illogical.
Language has strange ways. Owing to the currency of the two phrases objected to, they may in the near future be assigned places as sanctioned idioms.
You Cant Be Popular . . . 
If Youre a Poor Dancer
We Will Teach You in 3 Prlvato LessonsOnly $5 
Expert Instruction
JACQUES SCHOOL 
OF DANCING
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS Mayflower 7891 Beginners ClassesMonday and Friday Evenings, 8:30 oclock. 
Social DancesWith Orchestra Thursday and Saturday EveningBi 8:30 oclock.
In Uie Heart of Tech and Pitt
(WloAvo/D ONgRX
A SATIREIS A
MAN WHO ISsotGOAT
T
HIS sort of thing ha3 gone too 
far! When asked what product 
we get from whales, Bill Boner said, 
Little whales.
Lets take action at once. Get him 
a good pipe and a tin of good tobacco. 
We all know a pipe smooths out the 
wrinkles, clears the mind for its best 
thinking. And we all know what 
smoking tobacco goes best in a good 
pipe. For a recent investigation 
showed Edgeworth to be the favorite 
smoke at 42 out of 54 leading colleges.
Next time you cram for an exam, 
light up a pipeful of Edgeworth. Ah! 
See how that different blend of fine 
old hurleys makes even the -toughest
problem a whole lot easier.
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two 
forms  Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed 
and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes 
 15jf pocket package to pound hu
midor tin. If you would like to try 
before you buy, write Larus & Bro. 
Co., 120 S. 22d St.,
Richmond, Va., for 
a free sample packet.
EDGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCO
Ihaunted clerks 
for generations
The first of the month used to be a time of 
feverish activity for ledger clerks. But the Bell 
System accounting staff  breaking away from 
tradition  simplified the keeping of accounts and 
rendering of monthly statements to customers.
They applied a modern system of rotation bill
ing to the telephone business which now spreads 
this work evenly throughout the month. In co
operation with manufacturers, they devised special 
typewriters and bookkeeping machines. Thus 
they did away with inefficient rush and achieved 
greater accuracy, speed and neatness.
This is but one example of a point of view found 
throughout the Bell System. Even long accepted 
routine is constantly studied its always worth 
looking for the more efficient way!
BELL SYSTEM
%
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER - CONNECTING TELEPHONES
