2Ttve Carnegie 3Tartau
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1932
Fraternities Pledge 
170 New Registrants 
During Fall Rushing
Fraternities Satisfied 
With Higher Type 
Of Pledges 
RUSHING EXPENSE 
CUT TO MINIMUM
Rushees Express Greater 
Desire To Visiti 
Fraternities
By ANTHONY CACCHIONE
Fraternity rushing season, con
sisting of a contacting and an open 
rushing period, terminates Sunday 
morning with the pledging of 
rushees by the fraternities on the campus. The decrease over last years total was expected, but the fraternities hope to increase the number of pledges when those rushees who have delayed making 
their final decisions until after the Christmas holidays are added to their lists.In commenting upon the value of the contacting period, the various fraternities were of the opinion that the only thing that it accom' plished was in lending a dignified atmosphere to the rushing. A few , fraternities expressed the willingness to return to the old Saturday rush across the dormitory lawn, although they offered no particular objection against the contacting period.It was generally agreed that the silence period lasting from Sunday to Monday, wliiie unfavorable to 
the fraternities themselves, permitted the rushees to make their own decisions, rather than be the victims of fraternity sales talk. By limiting the number of orchestra dances to one, the primary aim of the rushing rules in reducing financial expenses was accomplished.Among the rushees there prevailed a greater Interest to visit 
as many houses as possible during the rushing season. It was felt
that this years prospects for fraternities were of higher type than (Continued on rage Two)
Dept. Of Music 
Party To Feature 
Maskers Pageaut
The annual Christmas party of the Department of Music will be held Thursday night at S p. m. in the Exhibition Room, College of Fine Arts. The party is limited to music students, although each music student may bring a firlend outside the school. The assessment is twenty-five cents per person; tags will be issued to serve as cards of admission.
As in former years, a maskers pageant will be the chief event on the program. The subject of this years pageant is a. banquet fea.- turing Good King Wenceslas, who 
will be played by Norman Winkler and Old King Cole, played by Richard Cole. There will be accompanying costumed musicians. Other events of the evening will be a play, The Wise Man, to be given by members of Sigma Alpha Iota, national honorary musical fraternity, and the singing of 
Christmas carols. Dancing, the distribution of gifts, and refreshments will follow the program.The committee in charge of the party includes: John Powers, committee chairman; Chauncey Kelley, George Youngling, and Joseph Corbett, in charge of the program; Dorothy Morse, finance and assessment; Russell Becker, invitations; Robert McGregor, dance orchestra; Edward Matlat, stage management and admission; Merle Bechthel, gifts; refreshments, Grace Metzger and Jeannette Fiscliel; Margaret Varner, costumes; Jack 
Brammer, decorations; ' and Ed. Garbett, secretary of the committee.
Offer Reductions 
In Theater Prices
Carol Service 
Features Yule 
Chapel Today
Service Will Be Held 
At 11:30 In Carnegie 
Little Theatre
Mr. Kenyon, head of the De
partment of Drama, has arrang
ed for reductions on both first 
floor and first balcony tickets 
for Wednesday, Thursday, Fri
day, and Saturday nights pro
ductions of the Abbey Theater 
Irish Players.First balcony tickets, regular
ly $1.10, can be secured for 60 
cents, and the $2.20 first-floor 
tickets, for $1.70. Reservations 
and payment should be made 
promptly in Mr. Kenyons office 
in the College of Fine Arts.
The Abbey Players are scor
ing one of the outstanding suc
cesses of the theatrical season. 
It is neither a high-brow nor a 
low-brow organization, but a 
group of gifted players present
ing some of best plays now be
fore the American public.
Employment 
Blanks Due 
Before Friday
Forms May Be Secured 
In Room 155, College 
Of Industries
Seniors are urged to turn in their employment blanks to the Bureau of Recommendations before the Christmas vacation. To date less than a dozen have been submitted.Care should be used in the recording of information on these forms, as quite frequently employers will use the employment information sheets to make a preliminary survey of the prospective employees, and a poorly presented form will naturally have a detrimental effect.When filling in the Personal History record, be sure to put in tlin line marked Name and address of some relative or .person who will habitually know your address, the name and address of someone whose residence is^ permanently established, and if possible, some Pittsburgh person. This will prove a great aid in future years to the Alumni Recorder office in searching for lost addresses.
If there are any seniors who were not present at Mr. Beattys talk several weeks ago, and consequently did not receive these blanks, the forms and other information may be secured at the Bureau of Recommendations, College of Industries, Room 155, any day between 9:00 and 5:00 oclock. Seniors are invited when they turn in their blanks to spend a few 
minutes in the Bureau to discuss fheir problems and outlook with members of the staff.
If possible, several photographs (passport size is satisfactory) should be submitted with the employment forms. This will facilitate the work of the Bureau, and Is quite frequently required by hiring companies.Information of interest to seniors will be published in the Tartan from time to time.
Civens Will Sponsor 
Tea Dance In January
The Cwens, sophomore womens, honorary, are planning to hold the first tea dance of the New Year on January 4, in Thistle Hall from 4 to G. The admission fee will be 25c per person. A popular local orchestra will be selected.Each year at the Christmas season the Cwens carry on some philanthropic work. This year they will aid a need3r family by providing food and clothing.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
BY STANTON WILLIAMS
That engineering graduates may be successful as well as content in other fields of endeavor .ban those for which they are specifically grained is well demonstrated by .Mr. Alan Bright, a Carnegie graduate who finally returned to be Its Registrar.Mr. Bright was born in the East End of Pitts
burgh, attend
ed the city 
schools, a n d g i' a d u a. t e d 
from Carnegio 
in 1911 with a
B.S. degree. 
During his underg r aduate 
days he was 
very fond of
i c e skating, 
and was a 
member of the 
Carnegie
Alan Bright 1,ke>' fms when they were making very respectable
showings. One year he held the speed skating championship of Pennsylvania.
After graduation Mr. Bright entered the employ of a Pittsburgh glass company, doing research work in photometry under Prof.H. IT. I-Iower, who was a consultant for the same company at that time. This led to' his being selected to make a nation-wide tour to inspect street lighting systems, a trip which he found pleasant and engrossing. But Americas entry into fhe World War put an end to this kind of work, so in May, 191S, a time when provision was being made on the campus to train officers, he returned here as Registrar.Mr. Bright vastly improved the efficiency of ttfie Registrars Office by a new record system which was adopted by many other schools. The centralization of records and the speed and accuracy with which changes are made In them are results of the new system.
(Continued on Page Two)
PROFESSOR KEEBLE 
ARRANGES PROGRAM
Old Favorites On Program; 
Mr. Matthew Frey Will 
Accompany On Organ
The annual Christmas carol serv
ice will be held today in the Little 
Theater at 12:30. Each year the 
chapel program before the Christ
mas holidays is devoted to the 
singing of Christmas carols by the 
students. The purpose is to con
tinue the traditional singing of the 
best loved carols. Dr. Baker will 
preside at the service and will de
liver a brief Christmas address. 
The program has been arranged by 
Prof. Glendinning Keeble, chair
man of the Fine Arts Faculty. The 
organ accompaniment, for the sing
ing will be furnished by Mr. Matthew Frey, a member of the faculty of the Department of Music and organist of the First Unitarian Church.
The program will include the following carols:Adeste Fideles..........John Reading
As With Gladness. .Conrad Kocher Lo, How a Rose Eer Blooming........................ Praetorius PrayerIt Came Upon the Midnight Clear............................Edward H. SearsThe First Noel...........TraditionalGod Rest You Merry Gentlemen
...................................... TraditionalO Little Town of Bethlehem.................................. Philip BrooksAll students are invited to attend this service and join in the singing. The service has always been very popular in the past so that in order to obtain good seats it is advisable to come early. Almost as 
many alumni come to these services as come to the annual home coming.
Dr. Baker Will Fete 
Children Of Faculty
Dr. Thomas S. Baker will entertain the children of the members of the faculty at a party to be held in the exhibition room of the College of Fine Arts on Saturday 
afternoon, December 17, from 3 until 6. Invitations have been extended to the children and their mothers.A very interesting program, including entertainment by a magician, has been planned. A Christ
mas tree will be a feature of the party, and the children will be given gifts and candy. Miss Einr 
erts recreation class is in charge of the plans for the party.
Alumnus Speaks 
To Pi Tau Sigma
The semi-annual call of Pi Tau Sigma, honorary mechanical engineering fraternity was issued the week before Carnegie Day in order to initiate the men before the rushing season and the holidays. On November 20 the following men were initiated: H. R. Ivrider, W. C. Lazarus, IT. F. Carr, R. S. Wentz and C. B.. Lyman.At the initiation banquet in the Hotel Sclienley Mr. Blenko, a Carnegie Tech graduate, spoke on the 
responsibilities of the engineer to solve the problems arising from the introduction of new labor saving 
machines and devices.The national convention of 1932 was held at the University of Illinois at Urbana, Illinois. The principal business was the installation of Georgia Tech as Nu Chapter in Pi Tau Sigma and the election of Prof. J. V. Warterus as the Supreme President for the next year. IT. P. Miller represented Carnegie Iota Chapter No. 157.
Junior Prom 
Will Be Held 
February 10
Red Nichols Orchestra 
Among Bands Being 
Considered
LOWER ADMISSION 
PRICE PROMISED
All-Carnegie 
Dance Takes 
Place Jan. 6
Price Of Tickets Set At 
1.50 Per Couple; 
Leighoo Head
The Freshman All-Carnegie 
Dance will be held on Friday 
night, . January 6, in either the 
Gymnasium or Thistle Hall. The 
orchestra has not as yet been , se
lected, but dancing will continue 
from 9 to 1. The price is $1.50 
per couple.
The general committee was ap
pointed recently at a special meet
ing of the presidents of f the fresh
man classes of the four colleges. 
The committee includes: Evelyn
Leighou, chairman; Thomas Bernardi, Horace Tantum, Jr., James 
Hughes, Mary Lord, and Sue Ful
ler. Thomas Bernardi is in charge 
of refresnments, James High is in 
charge of tickets and programs, and Mary Lord and Sue Fuller are in charge of advertising. The committee urges all freshmen to attend, as this is the only time during the year that the class, as a whole can assemble at a social function.The patrons and patronesses for the dance include Dr. Baker, Mr. and Mrs. Jewett, Mr. and Mrs. Webster Jones, Mr. Glendinning Keeble, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Watkins, Mr. and Mrs. Roscoe Ihrig, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Munn, Mr. and Mrs. .Robert Leighou, Dean Mary; Watson Green, Dean and Mrs. Arthur Tarbell, and Mr. and Mrs. Alan Bright.
William Penn Urban Room 
Or Schenley Ballroom 
Under Consideration
Students Are Invited 
To Christinas Dinner
A Christmas dinner for Carnegie students who are not going home for the holidays will be given on Christmas Day, December 25, at six oclock. The place will be announced later. If you are interested in being a guest of the committee at this dinner, give your name to any member of the committee before December 21. The committee copsists of Dean Green, Dean Tarbell, Mr. Allen E. RisedorL, Mr. Josef Lentz, and Mr. Rollin V. Davis.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, December 13:Christmas Carols, Little Theater, 11:30, President Baker presiding.Social Workers Supper for Settlement Children, Margaret Morrison Recreation  Hall, 7:00-10:00.Wednesday, December 14:Y. W. C. / A. Supper, Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 5:30-S:00. Reading by Chester M. Wallace of Department of Drama.Thursday, December 15:Science Club Christmas Part}7, Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall, 7:00.
Honorary Pledges 
Will Write Papers
The pledges of Tau Beta Pi, national engineering honorary, will 
write essays of 1,000 words upon subjects not directly relating to engineering. The subjects of the themes are to be approved by the Advisory Board of Tau Beta Pi which includes Professors Blaisdell, Work, ITower, and McCul
lough. A prize will be awarded for the best essay.Tentative plans are being made by Tau Beta Pi for the initiation and banquet on January 5. This honorary in conjunction with 
Theta Tau, Eta Kappa, and Pi Tau Sigma, is considering plans for an all engineering honorary dance. Members of the committee include Harry Miller 33, Wilfred Uffleman 33, Arch Matteson 33, and William Burns 33.
The Mens Junior Prom commit
tee is considering a.group of prom
inent eastern orchestras from 
which they will choose one to play 
at the Prom on February 10, 1933. 
The Prom will be held in either 
the Urban Room of the William 
Penn Hotel, or in the Ballroom at 
the Schenley Hotel.
Among the orchestras under con
sideration are Red Nichols and his 
prchestra from the Golden Pheas
ant Cafe in Cleveland; Emerson 
Gill and his orchestra, also from 
Cleveland; and Don Bigelow and 
his New York orchestra. Pitts
burghers are particularly familiar 
with Don Bigelow, who has played 
for many local functions of note, 
the most recent of which was the 
Carnegie Interfratemity Formal 
last winter.
Oother well-known orchestras un
der consideration are Jimmy Joy, 
now playing at the William Penn 
Hotel; Joe Playmes and his orches
tra; Gene Cardos, of the Roseland 
Ballroom in New York City; Dock 
Peyton and his orchestra; Harry 
Barris, appearing at the Park Cen
tral Hotel, New York; Henry 
Busse and his orchestra; Don De 
Forrest and his Palais DOr Or
chestra, New York City; Opie Cates and his Californians; Felix Ferdinando and his orchestra. Kay Kaiser, who played at the 
Womens Junior Prom last year, Marion McKay and her N. B. C. orchestra; Dick Schneider and ljis Detroit orchestra; and Tommie ..Christian and his orchestra.1 Although the admission fee has not been definitely determined, the 
committee has announced that the fee will be appreciably less than the admission last year. The final choice of an orchestra, as well as the date of the pre-sale andthe price of admission, will be announced in the Tartan appearing on January ]0.
The Prom committee consists of Charles F. Slater 35, chairman; Louis E. Jagnow 34, vice chairman; Libbus Lewis; Julian von der Lancken; Charles E. Davis; Colin M. Stewart; Samuel C. Wicks; James E. I-Ialferty; Carl De Witt Forsman; James Boyle; and William A. Trimble.
Three Playlets 
Given Tomorrow
Another group of three one-act playlets will be presented in the Union tomorrow afternoon at 3: Professor Chester M. Wallace is supervising the drama students who are presenting this, studio matinee.Eloise Campbell is directing a poetic drama played by Suzanne Bennett, Irene Cyphers, Mary 
Dingfelder. Maraine Haythorne, Dorothy Neumann, Jean Speller, 
Charles Frost, and George McCalmon.A light, sophisticated comedy with the briskness of a vaudeville skit will be played by Janet Patrick and Edwin Copper under the direction of Maraine Haythorne.Herman Liveriglit will present a portrayal of the farcical troubles of a Munich artist incident to his attempted excursion into the ranks of society as played by Audrey Kelley, John Dawson, and Walter 
Derdeyn.
Waddell Resigns Post 
As Carnegie Coach; 
Harpster Mentioned
Household Economics Course 
Provides Practical Training
Groups Of Students Alternate In,Living In Practice 
House; Small Sum Alloived Per Person Each 
Day; Economy, Efficiency, And Variety Rule
The Department of Household Economics of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College offers, as a part of its curriculum, a course in Home Management, in which students are given an opportunity to test theories of efficient budgeting and regulated housekeeping. This practical experience is a culmination of three jrears of theoretical training in class and is the final test of the students ability to apply principles to practice.Groups of five or six students alternate in living in the Practice House. The individual members of each group take shifts in performing certain duties designed to acquaint them with the various phases of responsibility in liomemaking. Everything is planned in
such a manner as to result in a definite, well-organized system of work.
The Practice House slogan is economy and efficiency. All meals are arranged In advance with an allowance of thirty-five cents per person for two meals a day, a sum large enough to provide sufficient quantity and a great variety of food. No wasting is permitted, and the women vie with one another to make tempting dishes from left-overs.During the past week Betty Cooper, Mary Iv. Diever, Rebecca Linn, Margaret Ralston, and Judith Whitaker were in charge, under the guidance of Miss Marguerite Abbott, an instrctor in the Home Economics Department.________
Ole Singstad 
Will Lecture 
H ere Dec. 14
Will Speak on Planning 
And Construction of 
Holland Tunnel
Ole Singstad, chief construction 
engineer on tunnels, Port of New 
York Authority, New York City, 
will lecture here tomorrow evening 
on the. "Planning, Construction and 
Operation of the Holland Tunnel. 
The lecture, which is open to the 
public, will be held in Room 101, 
Industries Building, at 8:30 p. m.
Having designed the Holland 
Tunnel and developed its novel 
ventilation system Mr. Singstad 
operated it for two and a half 
years. An authority on subaqueous 
vehicular tunnels, he has served as 
consulting engineer on construc
tion in this country and abroad. 
ITe has been construction engineer 
of the Detrolt-Windsor Vehicular Tunnel, advisory engineer on the design and ventilation of the tunnel approach to the Hudson River 
Bridge, and construction engineer on the vehicular tunnel under the Schelde River, AnUverp, Belgium. 
He is also the author of The Holland Tunnel,, the Relation of 
Tunnels and Bridges to Traffic Congestion, A Years Experience Operating the Holland Tunnel, and Ventilation of Vehicular Tunnels.
The Holland Tunnel, which is 9250 feet long, 5480 feet of which are under w^ater, wras completed in 1927 and extends from New York City to Jersey City. A masterpiece of engineering, it ranks with the Panama Canal as an engineering feat. The actual construction work required seven years, five hundred thousand cubic yards of* earth being excavated by manual labor working in a shield under compressed air. The maximum depth of the top of the tunnel below high 
water is seventy-twro feet, and the tunnels immense size created some very serious problems.Most serious was the problem of removing the exhaust gases from motor-driven vehicles thus making 
(Continued on Page Four.)
FRATERNITY PLEDGES
List Complete to Monday Afternoon, December 12, at 4:00 and Includes Only Fraternities Making Reports
ALPHATAU OMEGADELTA SIGMA LAMBDAPHIKAPPASIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
J.GeffelW. Snair0.HakmanJ. AllenR.BoehmeJ. SullivanV.BenderE. PlawkinsW. HavekotteJ. JoyceF.MoffetR.SchubertL. GerberW. Hubert
D.dlandH. PattersonE.WhalenW. Graham
G.SuttonDELTAUPSILONJ.D.MarinoKellnerP. Miller . F. NeilanR.
llVIA IN U
Wentz A. Speer
BETASIGMA RHOF.CrandellW. HolidayJ.TayntonM. McAIpine, JrP.PerrinA. PaulR.CoblentzR. DavisPHI KAPPA PSIR.PlornerD. PrestonA.YasgurPI. MalakoffWHallerJ. AltmanS.Brittian, Jr.J. KellyJ.TitoB. Moulten, Jr.
I.GruberJ. KappelITEidenC. GableM. BallyWDornausC. BelangerR.PotterA. SchmidtBETATHETA PIL. V. ValkenburghF.BolandR. SmithSIGMAPHI EPSILON
R.FisherT. ClisbeeD.BranningW. StiflerG.Ivittredge, J. W. BosworthKAPPA DELTA RHOPHI SIGMA KAPPAF.DellamanoE. Dice
C.EhrichA. FendersonA.BlackR. MichaelsD.GreenR. RogersR.TraversW. ConallyJ. Reese, Jr.P.DltzlerE. MoilesIT.HatchF. SchwartzTAUDELTA PHIS.StolzR. GreinerB.FirminJ. SpotzJ.HouseJ. Wallace
WSchneiderR. SchultzD.SullivanJ.KrebowM. Schlossman M. Knopff
J.HughesS. CharlesD.LevineB. DryerKAPPASIGMAPI KAPPA ALPHAA.GurshaA. LiffDELTATAU DELTAJ.RayP. GibsonW. AdamsonH. HuettnerM.BucknerB. WestermanJ.ProvostJ. MortenC.BaylessPI. JacquesC.ShapiroG. LevinsonF.SanfordB. ShuttsR.MooreJ. TuckerC.BoutelleH. Lehne
B.NealJ. BartonK.SpencerN. OlsenR.CarlsenJ. MacalkaTHETA XIB.RickettsJ. BellWLeetyP. BrightH. CorningJ. McKeeJ.DivinsC. EiflerS.BrenamanB. MillerB.GrahamR. ShermanF.GiolmaA. MillerL.JetterJ. ConnorE.Emerson.L. SimpsonR.HammondJ. Parker, Jr.K.MunhallC. SpisakFSvnrlPrF. BeersO.BauserH. BuntingJ.HaysW. SharpS.TrbovichR. Heppel
B.McFarlinG.RialE. HudsonH. HipwellW. ApplegateA. Ruprecht
Y.M. and Y. W. 
Arrange Joint 
Yule Program
Special Y Priveleges 
Offered To Men For 
Vacation Period
There will be a joint supper 
meeting of the Y. W. and Y. M. C.
A. tomorrow at 6 oclock In the 
Recreation Hall, Margaret Morri
son College. Professor Wallace of 
the Department of Drama will 
reacT'a few Christmas selections, 
and everyone will join in the sing
ing of Christmas carols.
Prior to the supper meeting the 
Y. W. C. A. Cabinet is inviting all 
freshman girls who are Interested 
in Y. W. work to come to a meet
ing in Recreation Hall at 4:30 p. 
m. At this time Mary Husband, 
chairman of the freshman move
ment, will announce the' cabinet. 
As usual the freshman cabinet 
will take charge of the luncheon 
discussion held once a month. In 
this way the freshmen are able to 
become acquainted with the Car
negie Y. W. C. A. organization and 
its purpose.
The Y. M. C. A. will again see 
that all the dormitory men in the 
city during the Christmas holidays 
have a Christmas dinner. In addi
tion to this the Cabinet is malting 
an arrangement with the Central 
Y. M. C. A. whereby each dormi
tory student remaining in the city 
will be supplied with a full mem
bership card to the Y. M. C. A. 
for two weeks. All men interest
ed in this should see Mr. Davis in 
the Y office.
Next Tartan Issued 
Tuesday, January 10
The next issue of the Tartan will 
appear on Tuesday, -January 10. Reporters can get their assignments on Tuesday, January 3, from 11:30 to 1:30 at the Tartan office.Members of the staff should report for make-up on Friday, January 6.
Press Of Business Leads 
To Retirement Of 
Head Mentor
SUCCESSOR MAY BE 
NAMED NEXT WEEK
Overend Accepts Resignation 
With Regret; Praises 
Waddell Highly
By EDMUND McCORMICK
Robert N. Waddells resignation 
as football coach at Carnegie was 
accepted Sunday night by Clarence 
Overend, graduate manager of athletics at Carnegie. He resigned a post that he has held with one brief intermission since 1920.In a message given to the Tartan late yesterday afternoon, Mr. Waddell said, My resignation was a mighty hard decision t.o make, but as it was in the interest of the Waddell family I thought it best.My years at Carnegie Tech have been some of the most pleasant I have ever spent. My heart will always be with the school. Any time I can be of assistance I would 
appreciate it if the school called on me.
The spirit of the Carnegie Tech boys is remarkable. They are always ready to fight hard even when the odds seem overwhelming. My association with the team was one of the most pleasant things In my life.George C. Kavel, co-captain of the football team, said in speaking of the teams reaction to the announcement, It came as a surprise. It is with great regret that wo see the passing of one of the most, promising young coaches on tlie football field. Our association with the coach has been of the warmest type. His policies were never questioned.Mr. Waddell will devote all his time to Ills business and family. He was recently appointed head of the Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Company office in Pittsburgh.Among the names mentioned as possibilities for filling Waddells position are Howard Harpster, AllAmerican quarterback at Carnegie in 1928; A1 Irwin, a former Carnegie star and present assistant to Mr. Overend; and Harry Stuhldre(Continued on Pago Two)
Executive Board 
Alters Official1:Calendar Dates
By action of the Executive Board, on November 2 and 1G, several changes have been made in the official calendar for the current college year. The registra
tion period for the second semester has been reduced from two days to a day and a half and will take place one day earlier. Second semester classes will ..accordingly commence one day earlier, beginning on Wednesday, February 15, 
instead of Thursday, February 1G:The week of February 13 on the official calendar has been revised to read as follows: On Monday,February 13, faculty meetings and interviews will be held from 9:00 a. m. to 12:00 m. Registration for the second semester will begin at 1:00 p. m. and will extend to 5:0-0 p. m. On Tuesday, February 14,. registration will be continued in the hours from 9:00 a. m. to 12:00- m. and from 1:00 p. m. to 5:00 p. m. Second semester classes resume on Wednesday, February 15 
at 8:30 a. m.The date for commencement has been moved from its previous date of Tuesday, June 13, to Monday, June 12. There is no other change in the week of June 11 to 17.
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
The American Federation of 
Labor issued a demand for aksixliour day and a five-day week at its 
convention in Cincinnati. William 
Green, who is president of the or
ganization, made this first formal 
demand by labor for a change In 
working hours. He was given 
hardy applause by the candidates 
to the convention, signifying that 
the sentiment of the working-man 
was with him. Mr. Green said that labor would use economic force lo accomplish its aim.Just what he meant by economic force Is hard to say. If he meant 
strikes, labor is pursuing a poor method of attack with conditions as they exist. Many employers will welcome strikes as a method of saving money. If a strike should develop under the present conditions, open shop would undoubtedly be declared by the affected industry. Industry can not meet 
their demands and pay them as
much for thirty hours work as they have been paying for fortyfour. Since only 11,000,000 men are employed, labor is in no position to coerce industry. That the shortened day and week should be in effect is fairly evident. The only thing lacking at the present 
time is the means to effect it.
Too Many Banks 
Thomas W. Lamont, one of the most influential bankers In this country and right-hand partner of 
J. P. Morgan, has come forth with his explanation of the great number of bank failures. Mr. Lamont's 
opinions have always carried a great deal of weight with the bankers of this country and because of that the country will listen to his plea for the dissolution of many of the small banks which' 
are not members of the Federal Reserve System. He goes as far as to say that every bank in this country owes the protection of the Federal Reserve System to its depositors.

---------------------------------------------------

2TUE CARNEOTE TAKTAN, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1932
THE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN 

BY JOE BRONSON
Ofer Rddeuctt iocidn dsoI cnT ucihoeuctt iocidn aPA 
LUMN. AP gUFla AbULU lv Bort PS M B8BB la AbU a7PLA M3Al4lAlUv PS AbU eMLG
AMav Ebl3b YMHUv lA LMAbUL bMLN AP FPA M 7MFU APFUAbUL BUA MBPaU ELlAU 
M 3PB8YaD ebULU vbP8BN gP M BME MFMlavA M vlBUaA 7ULlPN la AbU CMLG
aUFlU i7PLA CMBUaNMLD rPEU4ULm AbULU ML3 M SUE AblaFv Ebl3b YlFbA 
gU NBv383u3N MaN P8L PaB. bP7U lv AbMA AbULU ElBB gU UaP8Fb PS AbUYD
SINCE SEEING SO MANYALLA MI3IUCAN TEAMS being picked by most every sort of a scribe throughout the country, I decided, last week, to pick one inyHelf.' and alt quietly by and await Cor the howling to begin. Since then I have seen ho many of the no-called A11-T1Men and All-That teams with no two agreeing that I decided that my guess could be almost as good as the next fellow. With thin in mind I net about to chooHe my representatives and after many hours of hectic discussion I arrived at the following combination which will cauBe lpss disagreement than any one we have seen to date. So here it Is and who can say that it is not as good as some of the others?Loft End....................................................................................Stewart, CarnegieLeft Tackle...................................................................................Croft, CarnegieLeft Guard..................................................................................Sample, CarnegieCenter .............................................................................................Jones, CarnegieRight Guard................................................................................Burzio, CarnegieRight Tackle..........................................................................Foresman, CarnegieRight End.................................................................................Teaser, CarnegieQuarterback ..............................................................................Deuger, CarnegieLeft Half ...................................................................................Splsalc, CarnegieRight Half........................................i..........................................Kavel, CarnegieFullback .......................................................................................Mihm, CarnegieHonorable mention: Siegal, Dreshar, Heinzer, Keebe, Plummer, Nutter, Anderson, Doloway, Goodrldge, OstroBky, Coulter, Milim, Sayles, O'Toole, Bevevino, McCurdy, Brewer, Carlson, Croissant, Burns, all Carnegie Tech.
dxI uceefny csoIcyo erfi Oooh RdI !fChfny ero OfnG
noIi fv 98vA MgP8A aPAblaFD f PaB. 7l3HUN AEP ELPaF g8A AbU ALP8gBU 
lv AbMA lv MBB AbMA EPLU 7BM.UND TUv7lAU 2r8aH$ caNULvPa6v 7UvvlYlvYm 
AbU nPALU TMYU IMYgBULv BPPHUN AP gU MA BUMvA PaU AP83bNPEa gUAAUL 
AbMa iP8AbULa CMBlSPLalM g8A AbU eLP9Mav 87vUA AbU NP7U g83HUA MaN 
FM4U AbU fLlvb M vP8aN 0p:; ALlYYlaFD OUBBm lA vPLA PS BPPHv gMN SPL 
!lAA EbUa AbU. YUUA AbU CMBlSPLalMav Pa nUE WUML6v TM.D RPL vPYU 
LUMvPa PL PAbUL f 98vA 3Ma6A SPLFUA AbMA 46:0p NUSUMA AbMA AbU !MaAbULv 
v8SSULUN la 0929D
THE OTHER TEAM WHICH DID US DIRT ON SATURDAY WAS the All-North Team which lost to the All-South 7-G. Jock Sutherland who coached the northerners seemed to have the best material to work with, but the southerners didn't seem to mind the snow a bit and eked out a victory by one point. Clift Aultman intercepted a pass to score a touchdown for the North and oven though the lclek for the extra point was blocked the nix points seemed enough for victory. But in the closing minutes of the game Hunter blocked a kick and fell 011 it ovor the goal line to tie the score. Guy Turnbow, from the University of Mississippi kicked a porfect placement to sew up the game.
COACH HANNUM HAS BEEN WORKING HIS BASKETBALL PLAY
ERS quite hard lately In the endeavor to get them into shape for the 
opening game of the year with West Virginia University on January 
7. Max haB his work for the next few weeks cut out for him because 
he Is still doubtful whether Jim Fergus or Jagnow will be able to play In tho first few games. Although there are several men from last 
years freshman team who are fighting it out for the position It is hard 
to fill tho shoes of two veterans. Co-captain Bob Smith has been flash
ing fine form in the practices so far and should have the best season 
of his career. Ed Stontz seems to have grabbed off the center post and 
of Ills career. Ed Stentz seems to have grabbed off the center post, 
Johnny Ewalt has been starting with Smith at forward and Rod Sil
verman and Ed Rlgg have been holding down the guard positions.
TUE SCI INDULTO CONFRONTINO THE TARTAN PASSERS thls yonr apponi to l)o nnythlng bui. easy. Thro are ninotoon game schoduled botwoon January 7 and March 17. Elght of theso aro wlt.li oppononts in tho now Eafltorn Intorcolleglato Conforonco. This conferenco was just formod Inni; sprlng and thls wlll ho tho ilrst yonr of ll.s exlsl.onco. II. In oomponod of Ilvo tennis nt tho prosont timo, bui, moro aro oxpocted to onl,or ni. tho oml of l.hln yonr. The conforonco now In coinponod of Pltt, Wonl; Virginia, Goorgotown, Tempio, nnd Onrnogjo Tech. Elicli tonni pliiys ondi of tho otliorn twloo. Pltt hns nlrondy won 0110 gnnio. Dr. Cnrlnonn boyit (.riminoti Cloorgol.own 011 Snturdny night 82-18.
THE PLEBE BASKETBALL TEAM HAS BEEN TAKING SHAPE 
VERY QUICKLY under tho direction of Conch Jim Leonard. Jim has 
lind bln candldntmi working almost an long as the varsity and by Jan
uary V they nhould bo In shape for the Mountaineer Frosh. Several of 
the boyn 100 tho team would like to got revenge for tho defeat suffer
ed by tho Ploboti at tho linndn of tho Wont Virginia Fronh football team, 
.and they are determined to even thlngu up. There 1s some good ma
terial on tho freshman squad and they have given an excellent ac
count of thomnolveii In tho uorlmmago uotmlonu against tho Varsity. 
Coach Leonard has not as yet decided upon tho combination which will 
tart in tho opening game but It wlll probably bo tho ono lie Is using 
most frequently agalnnt tho Varsity.
COACII RIlflSDORPHS SWIMMERS liavo boon splashing around in tho pool for tho past month in preparation for their strenuous cumpnlgn this year. Throe teams wore formed out of tho squad and they hold a regular meet yesterday and they intend to hold one tomorrow. Boyor is the captain of one team, Jorge has charge of the second, and Lo Chance tho third. Quite a bit of interest has been stimulated and tho moots should bo spirited.Despite the loss of Captain Edwards and Ted Estebroolc from last years team the prospects for this year are exceedingly good. Captain Norm Franke and his mates have been working hard and Beem to be improving over tho form shown last year.
Basketball Team 
For Opening
oach Kipke 
To Broadcast 
riday
WE HAVE JUST RECEIVED THE WORD that the schedule for the 
practice periods for Intermural Basketball has been made out. Only 
thirteen teams have so far signed up for the Intermural competition; 
so Mr. Moses would like to see representatives from those organiza
tions who intend to enter into the competition but who have not 
signed up.
MR. RENTLIN WOULD LIKE TO ANNOUNCE that all men interested in wrestling should report to him in the gymnasium. There will be no intercollegiate competition in wrestling this year but there will be Intramural Wrestling and he will be able to give any one instructions on Monday or Wednesday afternoons. There has been a growing interest in wrestling so Mr. Rentlin would like to have as many men as possible can come out for mat instruction.
ALUMNI NEWS
Michigan Coach Will Be 
Guest Speaker From 
Station WABC
Harry G. Kipke, coach of Miclii;ms Big Ten championship aggregation, will be the guest speaker during the 'final AH-America Football Show, to be broadcast over the WABC-Columbia network !rom 9:00 to 9:30 p. m., EST, Friday, December 10, Avlien that series bows from the air after a season full of thrills. These weekly shows, with Harry von Zells dramatic re-creations of big moments from big games, Christy Walshs 
interviews with the countrys leading coaches, his rankings of individual players, and the various other football data broadcast, have kept followers of the sport posted 011 all its developments throughout lie season, and the baud and 
chorus renditions of college songs ave brought the spirit of the gridiron and the enthusiasm of the campus into the widespread parlorn of the kind. In addition to 
Kipkes appearance on this closing period, which will look back in etrospect upon one of the most colorful of football seasons, there will be other features, now in process of formation, which will be of deep Interest to all football followers and college students.Kipke, who attained renown at Michigan as one of the greatest 
kickers ever developed in football, eturned to his alma mater as assistant to coach Fielding II. 
Iiurry-up Yost. When the latter was appointed Athletic Director, Kipke stepped into his coaching shoes and filled them well, turning out consistently strong teams. The 1931 Michigan team tied with Purdue and Northwestern for the Western Conference, or "Big Ten" title. The 1932 team, undefeated and untied, has now attained full possession of the championship laurels.
The following liavo sent in additional contributions to tlio annual Carnegie Dollar Day which, began 011 Tuesday, Novembor 22 and which will continue until Decomber 3.1: T. A. Elkins, TliolnmHontuohol, IT, B. Not man, H. B. Choawlch, C. C. Krn.no, H. M. Sinclair, Clnronob Ovorond, Alan Rolsdorph, i!. A. Nlmiok, L, E. Oonaldlno, J. Wm. Kennedy, C. A. Llok, Jr., Orval Kipp, Paul L. Irwin, Loah A. Koller. I-I el on B. Galloher, M. J. Ilodlund, Charlotte Smith, Joan McQlnr, John B. Moore, John Ferguson, Joseph Kuzma, Arthur U. Johnson, Mary T. Slonakor, 
Mrs. II. B. McCully, Harry B. MeCully, John D. Beatty, Sue F. 
Smith.
Under tho Endowment Fund Plan, Carnegie must raise four million dollars by 194G. At this time the Carnegie Corporation has agreed to double the principle, plus the interest. Thus a single dollar turned in this year will amount to over fiveidollars in 19*1*3, providing the four millions can be 
raised.
The Dollar Day plan was originated by John L. Porter, chairman 
of the school committee of Carnegie, and has been in operation five years. The campaign is not
limited' to alumni only. Contributions can be made at any time dining the year and still be accredited to tho Dollar Day Fund. Checks should be made payable to' the Alumni Federation and sent, to the 
Alumni Otllco as soon as possiblo.
MENS CLAN OF PHILADEL
PHIA
Tho Philadelphia Mens Clan will hold their annual smoker 011 Monday, December 19, John 1* Hotchkiss Is In charge of this affair. Plans are bolng made to so euro tli' moving picture rools of this year's and last years TempleCarnegie football gaums which will bo shown at the smoker.
NEW YORK CLANO11 Thursday, December S, Direc
tor Jewett and Professor Trinks met seven members of tho New York Clan for luncheon at tho Pennsylvania Hotel, New York
c. s. Emm
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor Street
Prepares
Engagement
Night
Varsity Basketball. 
Schedule1933
January 7West Virginia University at Morgantown, W. Va.January 10Temple University t, Pittsburgh.January 13W. & J. College at Pittsburgh,January 18University of Pittsburgh at Carnogie gymnasium.January 2*1Geneva College at Reaver Falls, Pa.anunry 27,Duquesne University at Carnegie gymnasium.bruii,ry 1Notre Damo UnlverIIy al. Notro Damo, Ind.
Imiary 11Wentorn Reserve University at Cleveland, O.
ibrnai'y IliW. & J. College at Washington, Pa.February 18-Georgetown Unierslty at Pittsburgh.February 22New York UnivorIty at Now York.February 2-1 -Tempio University 
nt Philadelphia.abrualy 25Penn State at State College, Pa.February 28Grove City College at Pittsburgh.March 3Duquesne University at Duquesne.March 7,Geneva College at Pittsburgh.March 11Georgetown University at Washington, D. C.March 14West Virginia Univerity at Pittsburgh.March 17University of Pittsburgh at Stadium.
?May 'be played in Carnegie gymnasium.Games with Pittsburgh, Temple, West Virginia and Georgetown are Eastern Intercollegiate Conference games.
First Game Scheduled 
With West Virginia 
On January 7
FERGUS AND JAGNOW 
MAY MISS OPENER
City. The following were present: 
G. Byler, '22, C. W. Gibbs, '15. W. S. Firgau, 23, A. J. Kerin, 17, C. Hobbs, 10, K. T. Stearns, '12, 
H. G. Nichol, 21.The alumni spoke very highly of the letters which Dr. Baker sends 
out at regular intervals to them and requested that Professor 
Trinks resume his former, practice of sending out similar letters. The department of Mechanical Engi
neering sent out its last letter to the Alumni in 1931.
THE LADDER
Howard N. Fawcett, 32, is connected with the development department of tho Cambridge Instrument ,Company. His address is 
Wolden road, Ossining, New York, Margaret Koonoy, 30, recently, became the bride of Richard F Connolloy, 28. Thomas Connolley !50,' was his brothers best man.
Knee Injuries May Keep 
Two Veterans Out Of 
First Game
With the loss of but one man 
from last years basketball team, 
the prospects for a successful sea
son this year are quite good. Cap;ain Jimmy Leonard is the only 
man of last years team who will 
not be back this year. With the 
est of the 1932 team intact and 
seveial new men from freshman 
team trying out for positions, 
Coach I-Iannum will be able to put
team on the floor which will be 
able to more than hold its own 
against most of the opponents this 
year. The only catch to the whole
ablem, however, is the fact that 
Co-captain Jimmy Fergus and 
Louie Jagnow who are recovering 
from knee operations may not be uble to play in the opening contest.
The team has been practicing for over a month In the fundamentals of the game and in learning a new 
system of play under Coach Hannum. The biggest problem which confronts the squad is the learning of the new system of play. All of the players had previously used a 
method of play taught by Ralph Hogan, but Max I-Iannum has discarded that system in favor of one of ills own. For the past two weeks the varsity has been engaging in scrimmages with the freshman team and although playing has not been that of mid-season form it lias been coming along rapidly. ,
Co-captain Bob Smith and Johnny Ewalt seem almost sure of po
sitions at the forward posts and big Ed Stentz, so far, has had the call at center. With Fergus and Jagnow out at the present time, the guard positions are wide open just now. Rigg and Silverman have been working well together and may get the call in the opening contest, although Freedel has been fighting hard to break In. The rest of the squad is made up of TMleblut, Petransky and Biggin.
With the close of football season it is expected that several of tho grldders will attempt to gain positions on the varsity.It is expected that there will bo 
more interest tills year in basketball at Carnegie than any year in the past because of the new Eastern Intercollegiate Conference which lias been formed. This conference is composed of Pitt, West Virginia U., Temple, Georgetown and Carnegie. Each team plays each of the other teams twice. The Pltt Panthers have gotten a head start over the other members 
of tho conference. In their first game of the season they defeated Georgetown -32-18.It Is a difficult nineteen game schedule game which the Tartans 
have to go through this year, and it will take a lot of work and good playing to emerge from it with a good record. In addition to the conference games it includes games with: W. & J., Geneva, Du
quesne. Notre Dame, Western Reserve, New York University, Penn State, and Grove City.
Bob Waddell 
Resigns Post 
At Carnegie
Press of Business Leads 
To Retirement of 
Head Mentor
Fraternities Pledge
170 Registrants
(Continued From Page One) 
her, former Notre Dame horseman, who is not expected to return to Villa Nova.
The athletic office will make no announcement as yet as to what course they will pursue in handling the coaching staff for next years football team.Walter Steffen, advisory coach at Carnegie and supreme court judge in Chicago, has made no comments on Waddells move.Before he came to Carnegie in 1920, Waddell captained the Buclcnell team. He came to Carnegie to serve as assistant coach and assistant graduate manager. In 1923 he returned to Bucknell as assistant football coach and came back to Carnegie the following year. In 1925 he was named head coach.Formal action on Mr. Waddells resignation will be taken at a meeting of the Athletic Council next week.
M. Pikarski Is 
Dance Chairman
Maxine Piekarski, 33, a student 
in the Department of Painting and 
Decorating, College of Fine Arts, 
has been chosen chairman of the 
aides for the annual charity dinner-dance of the Southern Club 
that will be held December 27 at 
the Hotel Schenley. Rebecca Wil
liams, '33, also a student in the De
partment of Painting and Decorat
ing is a member on the committee.
The Southern Club, composed of 
residents of Pittsburgh who formerly lived in southern states, holds this affair annually for charity. Miss Piekarski lias been an aide to the club for the past five 
years.
Phi Mu Alpha Pledges 
Initiated Informally
Last Saturday evening the men who had recently been pledged to Phi Mu Alpha were conducted through the Informal initiation 
which Alpha Omega Chapter holds previous to the formal Induction of members into the honorary.The men who received the purification rights were Jack D. Brammer '34, Bernhard I. Everson 33, James ABra.y, Walter R. Genge '33, Anthony F. Noce 33, Wilfred R. Uffelman 33 lind John L. Pow
ers 33.On December 18 the formal ini
tiation will take place at the little theater following which a banquet 
will be served at the Hotel Schenley. The chapter will have present 
as guests Mr. Marshall Bidwell, Director of Music at Carnegie Institute, also Mr. Norval L. Church, Province Governor of the fraternity, Professors J. Vick OBrien, Karl A. M,alclierek, honorary members and Mr. Edward F. Sullivan, Director of the Kiltie Band.
Directory of 
Carnegie Clans j
AKRON. OHIO 
President: C. Hixenbaugh, 860 Packard Drive.
Secretary-Treasurer: T. B. Gotham, Mohawk Rubber Company.
ATLANTA, GA.
President: John Nation, care J. M. Tull Rubber & Supply Co., 285 Marietta St. Secretary-Treasurer: A. F. Eichorn, care
Johns-Manville Company.
BUFFALO, N. Y.
President: Arthur L. Beck, 1064 EllicottSquare Building.
Vice President: Herbert Tumin.
Secretary: H. S. Beers, 502 Michigan Avenue.
Treasurer: Josephine Soisson, 39 IrvingPlace.CANTON, OHIO 
President: Harry B. Illey, 817 FifthStreet, N\ W.
Secrctary-Treasurer: Mary S. Downes,611 Twenty-second Street, N. W.CHICAGO, ILL.
President: Homer C. Porter, 809 Michigan Avenue. Evanston, III.CINCINNATI, OHIO 
President: W. M. Ball, Jr., 3328 AveryLane.
Vice President: Donald Du Vail, 701Fourth National Bank Building. Secretary-Treasurer: M. C. Schwerha,care Worthington Pump & Machinery 
Co., 1504 First National Bank Building, Cincinnati.CLEVELAND, OHIO 
Mens Clan 
President: E. A. Johnson, 1310 HannaBuilding.
Vico President: Raymond J. Weppner.Electric Refrigeration Dept., General Electric Company, H'>nna Building. Secretary-Treasurer: Riehard H. Cutting,
2915 National City B-nk Building.Womens Clpn President: Margaret Fog". Suite 5, 2130
Surrey Road, Cleveland Heights. Secretary-Treasurer: Irere La Lone,
26939 Bruce Road, Bav Village.
COLUMBUS, OHIO President: N. J. Engle, 26'i S. High St.Secretary-Treasurer: J. R. Paloma, Dept, 
of Romance Langnges, Ohio State University.
CONNECTICUT President: W. F. Gallagher, 74 Orange
Street, Hartford, Conn.Vico President: Arthur Nelson, 85 RoseAvenue, Hartford.Secretary-Treasurer: Samuel Lebon, 48
Village Street, Hartford.DETROIT, MICH President: W. Ray Williams, 5590 Lins-dalo Avenue.Secretary-Treasurer: NorriB Tilbrook, 10-
137 General Motors Building.
ERIE, PA.President: W. Spangenberg, 337 West
Eleventh Street.Vice President: Maitland Smith, 230 East Sixth Street.
Secretary: Michael Sanera, 944 WestEleventh Street.
Treasurer: E. J. Hedlund, 453 West Thirty-first Street.
GOLDEN GATE (CALIFORNIA) Secretary: Mrs. R. L. Wharton(Eliza
beth Dearlng), 3902 Clinton Avenue, 
Richmond, Calif.HARRISBURG, PA.President: Henry Y. Shaub, 1126 Wheatland Avenue, Lancaster, Pa.JOHNSTOWN, PA.
President: D. C. Crum, 401 Oak Street,Conemaugh, Pa.Vico President: Walter Sontum, 304 Thoburn Street.Secretary-Treasurer: Mrs. Dale McMasters (Mary Williams), 1106 Confer 
Avenue.MILWAUKEE, WIS.President: R. O. Perrine, 1133 East
Pleasant Street.Secretary-Treasurer: Howard Dowhower,
2840 West Highland Boulevard.NEW YORK CITY Secretary: Mrs. O. A. Dickman, 190-14ABcan Avenue, Forest Hills, Long Is-, 
land, N. Y.NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President: L. E. Krebs, 247 North Ora-ton Parkway, East Orange, N. J. Secretary: J. H. Kinghorn, 151 Sip Ave
nue,' Jersey City, N. J.PHILADELPHIA, PA.Mens Clan President: R. M. Ward, 223 N. 34th St.Vico President: John Gicking, 7808Lenox Avenue, Highland Park, Phil
adelphia.Secretary-Treasurer: Paul V. Shaver,,
1210 Penna Building.Permanent Chairman of Advisory Board: L. E. Exline, care Herman Hoopes, 
Inc., Real Estate Trust' Building.Womens Clan 
President: Mrs. Robert E., Lees (MaryRido), 3 Schiller Avenue, Narbeth, Pa. 
Secretary-Treasurer: R. Leah Rothaus,
910 Pine Street.PITTSBURGH. PA.CARNEGIE TECH CLUB OF
PITTSBURGH
421 Fifth AvenuePresident: Howard A. Bowman,  careAmerican Radiator Company, 319 
Boulevard of Allies.Vice President: G. L. Comfort, 7923
Union Street, Swissvale. Secretary-Trcasurcr: Clarence Overend,
Athletic Office. C. I. T., Alumni Office, 
206 Gymnasium Building.SCHENECTADY, N. Y. 
President: J. M. Sampson, 45 Bedford
Road.Secretary: B. R. Hill, 219 Alexander
Avenue, ScoHa, N. Y.SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA President: J. R. Brandin, 308 Transpor
tation Building. Los A;igelea.________
Continued From Page 1
in previous years, a natural result of the present economic conditions. A keen rivalry existed among the 
fraternities, all the more intensified by the small number of dormi
tory men.Any infraction of the rushing 
rules will be known at the next meeting of the Interfraternity Council. If any infraction oc
curred, the Regulations Committee, consisting of three faculty members and three members from the Interfraternity Council, will give 
final decisions one month after the infraction was brought before it.The complete list of the frater
nity pledges as given to the Tartan appears at the bottom of the 
first page.
Womens Athletics by Gloria Kloos
FOR THE HOLIDAYS!
Mr. and Mrs. Connelley are residing in Greenville, Pa.Howard Claney, National Broad
casting Company announcer, is a 
former Carnegie student.John E. Barnes, 31, is in Auburn, Alabama, with his fathers firtn building a newpost office building. 
Mrs. Barnes, Mary Elizabeth Hoffman, 32, is with her husband. Mr. and Mrs. May be reached by addressing them at the Jones Hotel.
RESERVATIONS Taken for Buses, 
Railroad, Air, Private Car
.......at........
Tartan Travel Bureau in "Y Office
Using the Facilities of the Pittsburgh 
Travel and Service Bureau 
Mo. 8734
Effective Dec. 15th to Jan. 1st . . . Return Limit Jan. 15th
Greyhound-! fi 1 'es re cut lmost half tor yew-end trip. Jhjt Means first class travel, cozy Tropic-Aire heatschedule convenience unequal .
ROUND TRIP EXCURSIONS.........$ 7.00
DDDDDDDD 8.00
......... 7.25
......... 11.50
......... 9.75......... 3.40
Cleveland .. Youngstown 
Columbus . . 
Fort Wayne
Akron ...........
Wilkes-Barre
$3.75Detroit ........
, 2.25Washington
. 5.50Baltimore ..
. 8.90Chicago -----
, 4.00Scranton .. .
. 9.25Johnstown .
. 8.50
. 9.00Louisville . .
. 7.75
. 7.40Philadelphia
GREYHOUND BUS STATION
LIBERTY AVENUE AT GRANT STREET 
Phone: Grant 5700
r.r>n-,nnc Anpnt. Rnx 30FP>>o"e: Sehenlev 9068
GREY/HOUND
Harriet Rodenbaugh, crack player on the Freshman Hockey team, 
has been elected by the W. A. A. Board as its representative from the class of 36. This appointment, which is made annually at the December meeting of the Board, is an important one because the representative is responsible for interesting the members of her class in all campus sports. It is one of the few Freshman offices that is held for the entire year. Two other new members were also appointed by the Board. They are Mary Warner, speedball manager, and Agnes Stevens, Arts representative. Mary has been named to fill the position left vacant by the resignation of Hazel Gough, and Agnes is a transfer student who will endeavor to create more interest in athletics among the girls of the College of Fine Arts.The basketball season opened last Thursday with a short meeting in the womens gym. The 
number of Sophomores who attended is a strong indication of their determination to carry off
Intramural Fives 
To Begin Practice 
After Cli ristmas
Preparation for the Intramural Basketball season parted last 
Tuesday, December G, with the scheduling of practice periods for the various teams as represented at a meeting held for that purpose. Since only thirteen of the twentyodd teams usually entered were represented at the meeting, Mr. Moses, supervisor of intramural basketball activities, requests that managers of teams not yet signed up for practicing consult him immediately, that he may be sure of an early start and the more thor
ough and equal preparation of competing teams.
If the liard-fought competition in fraternity rushing as exhibited last week is any indication of the prevalent interfraternity spirit, this 
seasons games should prove to be exceptionally exciting, and their outcome equally indeterminant.A cup is given each year for the championship in this sport, one of the most sought-for trophies by intramural sports competitors. Last years cup was won by the Kappa Sigma fraternity.
Secrotary-Trensurer: MiBS Betty Finkel-hor, 200 North Oakhurst Drive, Bev
erly Hills.TULSA, OKLAHOMA tProsident: Walter D. Smith, 20051 SouthX an thus Street.Vice President: H. D. Skyrm, 330 Philcade Building.WASHINGTON, D. C.President: W. D. Hall. 2301 CathedralPlace, N. W., United Typothetae of America, Tower Building.Secretary: Miss Annabel Leo Glenn, 1401 
Fairmont Street.YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO
President: B. F. Anthony, 66 Shady Side
Drive.Vice President: J. D. Evans, 375 ParkAvenue.Secretary-Treasurer: William H. Hoob-ler 204 Regent Street._______________
this years trophy. The tentative schedule made out for various 
class practices is as follows:Tuesday2:30, Juniors; 3:30, Sophomores.Wednesday12:30, Sophomores; 3:30, Freshmen.
Thursday3:30, Juniors; 4:30, Seniors and Sophomores.Friday3:30, Freshmen; 4:30, Seniors.Contrary to expectations Freshmen are not permitted to substitute practice for gym classes. Sophomores may substitute basketball 1 for any classes except swimming or tap dancing. So its up to the Freshmen to prove whether they, are interested enough to come out for practicesjust for the fun of it.
The 'bowling team is getting in shape for the coming tournament. Practices are still held every day at the Murray Beacon Alleys. In answer to the many queries as to whether the alleys are open on Saturday we wish to announce that anyone may bowl their lines on. that day.
Campus Personalities
Continued From Page 1
Mr. Bright is now president of the Allegheny County School Board and a member of the Engineering Society of Western Pennsylvania. In 1930 he was treasurer of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars.His hobby is botany, and he likes to spend all available time tramping through the woods with his two sons who share his enthusiasm. A very fine garden suffices when he cannot make longer trips. He is also interested in music. Mr. Brights home is in Emsworth.
Prof. Trinks Addresses 
Mechanical Engineers
At 11:30 today the Carnegie 
Mechanical Engineering Society 
will hold a meeting in Room 10, 
Machinery Hall. Professor Willi
bald Trinks, head of the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, 
will report on the convention of 
the American Society of Mechani
cal Engineers, which was held in 
New York City over the past weekend. This society, of which the C. M. E. S. is a branch has a membership of over 19,000 engineers, among which are President Hoover and Orville Wright. Lack of funds prevented the Carnegie Society from sending a representative to the convention.
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST 
Specializing in Examining Eyea and 
Furnishing Glasses.
Special Student Rates
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
The advantages of 
ample resources and 
the services of ex
perienced officers are 
available to our de
positors
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
rdO ed csdfT udnoIi
ero xnfeoT ieceoi 
fi tdCceoT fn ero 
eoM!oIcnCo Zdno
P
OOR BILL BONER-he just 
cant think straight. He thinks 
a person is safe from contagious 
disease if he is intoxicated!
But no college man ever pulls 
boners with a good pipe between his 
teeth. Theres something about a 
pipe and tobacco that soothes a man, 
helps him think straight. That is, of 
course, if he uses the right tobacco. 
A recent investigation showed, Edgeworth to be the favorite tobacco at 
Jf2 out of 5It leading colleges.
If youre not already an Edgeworth 
smoker, theres new smoking satis
faction waiting for you. Edgeworths 
blend of fine old burleys is distinc
tive, different Youll know  after 
the first puff.
You can buy Edgeworth tobacco 
anywhere in two formsEdgeworth 
Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug 
Slice. All sizes15ji pocket package 
to poynd humidor tin. Or, if you 
would like to try before you buy, 
write for a free sample packet. Address 
Larus & Bro. Com
pany, 120 S. 22d 
St., Ridhmond, Va.
oTyoOdIer iMdhfny educCCd

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. DECEMBER 13. 10323
IdlMght tpflent
Night Eng. To 
Dance Sat. In 
Thistle Hall
I notice that tlie lanterns which 
hang high over the entrances of 
the arts building are getting sorta 
weather worn. Its a wonder some 
ambitious art student doesnt de
sign some new lights for these im
portant entrances. Tell you what 
would be a good iaea<have an all
arts contest for a design to be 
executed into new lights. No, Im 
not infringing upon the sugges
tions of some of the other all-soand-so contests .which have been 
suggested from time to time.
Apparently some one thinks that 
college degrees are not necessary 
for success. Well, I am of the 
opinion also that these are not al
ways the all important considera
tion when it comes down to wooden 
tacks on a decision of importance. 
Too often the holder of a piece of 
paperwhere did I hear such an 
expression?thinks he is about the 
one and only when it comes to 
knowing something, but they are 
wrong. Often those who do not 
have the certificate can put a prof*- 
lem over in such a fashion as to 
make the other feel like a nickle. 
What price knowledge?I see that the all absorbing parking problem has come up again for discussion. It seems that somebody got tagged and. he was it. It is too bad that we dont have more space available for all the night students to' put their steel chariots up for the couple of hours each night they are out. Guess I better put my thinking cap on and i:ry for a solution. Give me some time and I may have one to offer. Anyway, a word to the wisedont .get on the wrong side or else you will be "it again.
Well the Hi-Ho fever has got 
me. I am just about now trying to 
fit my pocketbook into some sort 
of a figure which will resemble a 
silhouette like a full money bag 
makes. That is a puzzle these days 
of so many distractions. One can 
hardly turn around without being 
greeted with a request for some
thing or another. My but that 
money bag of ours gets a going 
over. It would be a good idea to 
invent some sort of rubber money 
no I dont mean rubber checks 
for they have already come bounc
ing backbut money that you 
could stretch as far as you liked. 
That really would be a good idea 
and someday maybe Ill work on it.
Speaking of habitsI see that the snuff habit is in for a ride. No I wasnt thinking of snuffing out lightsjust that old fashioned snuff habit which we indulge in when we chew the ragor something. Those pinchers certainly 
help the weed manufacturers along to the tune of declaring extra dividendsand dividends these days are nothing to be snuffed at. Wonder how many of the night workers snuff the chewing habit?
Another explanation has been of
fered for the slump in student reg
istration experienced in some col
leges. It appears that the odd and 
even figures of the school years 
have something to do with it. The 
last two figures of this year repre
sent an even number and this is 
held to contain the charm which 
would bring forth a decrease. The 
odd figure denotes an increase and 
there you have it1932 should be 
a low year and 1933 should be n 
high year in registration. This 
theory is advanced by some south
western teachers college and the 
facts justify the case according to 
statistics. Lets see what the 1933 
year will bring.
A million shaves built a college dormitory on one of the lead
ing college campuses of the country. My that must be some building. Think of the lather which-was used and the hair which was cut off to make it possible. Wonder if they staged a shaving contest to produce the results. I got an idea how would it be to start a contest of something or other on our campus for an activities building. Lets have some suggestions.Here we are, Christmas is at our door with the usual spirit which abounds at this time. My best wishes to everyone on the campus. That was the idle night student signing off until next year. The Tartan bids you all good cheer.
Council Workers Should 
Sign After Doing Work
Night students working on the various activities should make sure that they have recorded their 
names when worlc has been done. The work ofthe Council consists 
of the four major dances as well as that of the individual college. 
It is very important that each student works on his particular colleges activities, but this is not enough, to secure the award at the end of the year, so an opportunity is afforded him of working on the four major dances held by the Council. One of these dances has been held, and there remains three more.
Will Be Last Function 
Prior To Christmas 
Vacation Recess
The Night College of Engineer
ing will hold its second function of 
the school year on December 17. 
The plans are made for a dance 
on this occasion in Thistle Hall. 
This dance is scheduled to take 
the place of the usual banquet 
which lias been held during previ
ous years but because of unforseen 
circumstances was postponed.
The orchestra engaged for the 
party is under the able leadership 
of Ken. Kai-row and should prove 
of interest to the night engineer
ing students especially those who attended the dance held last year. The rytlim of the band was much 
enjoyed on that occasion.Dancing will commence at 8:30 p. m. and will continue until 12 midnight. The party is intended 
for the students registered in the Night College of Engineering and students registered in this college will be admitted without charge upon presenting their registration 
cards. All other students will be charged an assessment fee of $1.09 a couple.The committee working on the dance expects to hold a successful affair and the engineering students can show their appreciation by their attendance. Better get your 
partner now and plan to attend this Saturday evening.
Claim High Heels 
Are Aid To Women
Women wear high heels in order to appear graceful and light according to Professor Hyde of the 
arts school. High heels he believes were suggested by the terpslchorean art. A rhythmic, harmonious grace of body is most naturally attained by the toe dancer. Consequently walking on the toes gives the body a graceful appear
ance. Since the feet of women are relatively small and have a tendency to broaden, they find it necessary to create the illusions of 
grace and lightness by resorting to the antics of a toe dancer. It seems that this is very cleverly done through the medium of high heeled shoes.
A very logical argument, it is generally conceded, but the fact remains that twenty million women have still to leam that they 
are really toe dancers trying to appear graceful and light. And then they talk of forming a great American ballet.
Depression Art 
Shows Attract 
Many Exhibitors
The revolt of impecunious artists last summer appeals to have been favorable for-art in Pittsburgh, if nothing else can be said in favor of the depression, it is an obvious fact that poverty is fertile atmosphere for the development of artistic talents as is apparent from the unprecedented number of exhibitions throughout the city.
Unemployment has caused many talented people who would have otherwise been busily occupied in a machinized work-a-day world to concentrate on creative art. As an ultimate result some of the finest artists may rise from these ranks. 
Numerous exhibitors in the various art shows are recruited from the ranks of the unemployed and while the efforts of some are peculiarly 
amateurish, many appear to have become imbued with the modern spirit.
Exhibitions in the large galleries impress  one as a potpourri of art. 
Here one sees the works of dignified traditionalists of years gone by as well as creations by the followers of the cubic conception movement.
Men deliberate and hold numberless opinions about this movement and it is unfortunate that the average layman does not understand this advanced movement although lie does not hesitate to show his contempt. As a matter of fact appreciation of art is an intimate experience and its value cannot be estimated with any scientific exactness. Followers of this movement have abandoned literal copying of 
natural objects and concentrate on simplicity of pattern and tone.There is no such thing as correct drawing or an outside standard of truths for works of art. The old master Leonardo De Vinci said that the more art involves physical labor the baser it is. It is claimed that what the true artist desires to bring into his picture is the power to move finely touched and gifted men. A methodical system of education, however, would recon
cile the layman to modern art and help him to comprehend the modern artists perplexing creed, the 
greater the interpretation the less realistic the object.
You Can Now Have Your Private Dances 
At the FINES
Ideally Situated 
Exceptional Parking Place 
Reasonable Rentals 
Phone Perrysville 23
Christmas Recess 
Starts Next Monday
Starting Monday, December 
19, 1932, and continuing through 
until January 2, 1933, inclusive, 
no classes will be in session in 
any of the schools on the night 
campus. All classes will resume 
on Wednesday evening, January 
3, 1933. This is the regular 
Christmas vacation period and 
is the longest vacation from 
classes during the school year.
The Plaid Staff wishes to take 
this opportunity of wishing all 
night and day students a very 
Merry Christmas and a very 
Happy New Year.
Arts School Trip 
Is Interesting 
To Eng. Student
Several weeks ago there ap
peared a short resume of a trip 
made through the Industries school 
and a promise was made to report 
a similar excursion through the 
Arts school. It will be recalled 
that the Industries trip was indeed interesting and a trip recently/ 
made through the Arts was equally' as interesting so we might as well begin now.Having nothing important to do on a certain evening we wandered 
over to the Arts school and the first place we walked into was the sculpturing room. Here we saw many things of interest and our eyes gradually discerned a tightly drawn curtain in one corner of the room. Thinking this enclosure covered some hidden objects we sauntered down in that direction. Our curiosity was somewhat dampened when we were-told that the person we were looking for as not in that evening and that we should keep moving. Being timid engineers, not knowing the ways of an artist, we decided to retrace our steps to the exit, since discretion 
was the better part of valor.Walking up to the second floor 
brought us to a point where we hear a bedlam of musical noises. This evidently was the music section. From one side came the 
sounds of violins and from another the notes and denotes of pianos were in evidence, and then from another direction other sounds rent the night air. It all made a racket which was rather hard to withstand, and for once we longed for the quiet halls of our own school.Going up another flight brought us to a large drafting room where a number of men were bending over tables and boardsarchitects in the malting, no doubt, but we were somewhat puzzled to explain 
why there was such commotion and confusion and with it all noises which would indicate that the place 
was not wholely sane. How anyone could rave and work at the same time is beyond our ability to figure out, so we left firmly convinced that these artists are cer
tainly queer people.Our next point of inspection was on the floor above. 'Well, well, we like this, pretty girls walking 
around the place, smiles were on everybodys face. Happiness seemed to control and reign here. It is no wonder art students are always so happy. Who wouldnt b.e with this ^unrounding? We tried to appear nonchalant and looked at some of the drawings on the walls but the pretty faces all around us proved too much. Wo finally summed up enough courage to speak to one of the fair sex and when we left we had a new name and address leading perhaps to a possible date. Hope she doesn't 
fool me.As we made our way down the steps we suddenly found ourselves in the sacred grounds of the drama 
student. But oh! ye shades of Shakespeare, we care not for the 
make believe, so we hied ourselves from there and retired to our warm 
firesides there to work on our calculus assignments.
Night Eng. Workers To 
Report In Thistle Hall
All night engineering students 
interested in earning points toward the Night Student Council Insignia award are requested to report at Thistle Hall, Saturday afternoon, December 17, at 2:00 p. m. to complete arrangements for the dance which will be held by the Night college of Engineering in the evening. Help will also be needed in the evening so that the affair can 
be a success and those who can work are requested to come out.
Nu Sigma Alpha 
To Hold Supper 
Dance On Dec. 28
Nu Sigma Alpha, the night school 
honorary fraternity, will celebrate 
its fifth anniversary on Wednesday 
evening, December 2S, when a 
party will be held in the Hotel 
Schenley. The plans call for a 
supper and dance for the members, 
guests, and friends.
. The fraternity has held a party 
each yar commemorating the 
founding of the organization and 
these affairs have grown and be
come so popular that larger quar
ters are necessary to sufficiently 
accommodate the attendance. This 
year it was necessary to reserve 
both the ball room and the diniug 
room of the Hotel Schenley to 
amply, care for everyone.
Invitations and tickets have now 
been sent out to the members and 
their friends and the indications 
are that the party will be well at
tended.
A Student Would Feel 
Much Better If He Knew
When are night Dramats going 
to give .us a show of their own? 
No use keeping your light under a 
bushel folks, let the public see 
what you can do.
What are we going to do with 
that old college spirit, the AllAmerican Girl, etc., now that the 
football season is over?
What are the Carnegie basket
ball heavers going to do this year? 
We hope Der Maxie and his lads knock their Opposition for a bunch of baskets, and we mean Pitt too.
What does Dad Manson think about after the last niglit student has gone home, and after everything is dark and quiet?
What pops into an instructors mind when he observes that half 
of his class has fallen asleep in the middle of his explanation of the so and so theory?
Who the author of Didja Notice and the Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student are and how they get all the dope on the rest of us?
If the day will ever come when parking on the campus will be a 
pleasure and not an ordeal for those of us who are unfortunate 
enough to arrive a little later than usual?
Why doesnt some kind soul donate nice warm blankets to those horses that guard the drive through our campus on which only the select few are allowed to drive their gas buggies?
Why we wrote tills stuff and who would waste their time reading it? Selah.
Night Industries 
Hold Dance Jan. 7
On January 7,' 1933 the Night College of Industries will hold its first dance in the large auditorium of the mens gymnasium, reservations for which have already been made.
This will be the first dance given by the night industries men and the plans are being made to have the dance successful. To this end a committee is working and they expect to have new and novel arrangements for their classmates. A good orchestra will be engaged to furnish the music for the occasion. However,' nothing definite can be made at this time except that the dance will be free to the students registered in the Night College of Industries, and admittance can be obtained by presentation of their registration card at the door.
There will not be another issue of the Tartan before the dance will be.held so this announcement will have to suffice to remind the industries men of their dance. Make a note of the party in your handbook so that when January 7, 1933 rolls around you will be all set to attend.
Students interested in working for activities are to report on Saturday afternoon, January 7 at the mens gymnasium at 2:00 p. m. to make final arrangements for the dance.
Student Finds 
Physical Rest 
Is Only Myth
All In State Of Mind 
Night Student Says 
Citing Proofs
Alas! another delusion has been 
shattered. Physical comfort is not 
a reality, its all in the state of 
your mind. This we learn from no 
less an authority than a night stu
dent who has just concluded a 
comprehensive study of the mind 
theory.
Art students were chosen as sub
jects of study because of their 
natural inclinations to revert to a 
lethargic state each time the mind 
is in danger of being taxed to its 
normal capacity. The study was 
extended to include other students 
of fine arts, and all were found to 
possess the same salient character
istics. The object was to learn 
whether these people in choosing 
a place to relax would select a 
comfortable spot. In most in 
stances they do not, so the study 
reveals.
Drama students (opposite sexes) 
were foimd to be most comfortable 
in each others arms, but are not 
averse to sleeping on the shelves 
back stage, or lounging on the 
marble benches in the arts foyer. 
Their greatest diversion is sitting 
between the legs of overturned 
chairs.
Music students find greatest re
laxation while sitting on a long 
.table or the tops of chair backs. 
A coveted privilege is to lean 
against a big bass viol.
P. & D. students are most com
fortable while sitting on the 
rugged base of the statue of Venus 
de Milo, or on the brass rail over
looking the dizzy abyss, or on a 
stool heavily covered with char
coal dust. Great pleasure is de
rived from lying across the model' 
stand in the anatomy room with 
the skeletons foot in one hand.
Architects are found to be most 
industrious and manage to find re
laxation while working. They tangle their feet in the legs of their stools in an undescribable manner, then alternately untangle them to 
roll over their drawing boards meanwhile balancing their feet in 
midair. Their greatest comfort is derived from rushing upstairs to the P, & D. department at least once a day to glance at the fair femme art students, then return.Promulgators of this theory are cautioned to revise It to conform with this latest psychological ob
servation. It was found that on a rainy .day for example one becomes dripping wet, despite all efforts to convince the mliul otherwise.
Former Carnegie 
Student Exhibits 
Work-In N.Y.C,
Richard Crist, 22 years old, a 
student in the Department of Painting and Decorating, College of Fine Arts in 2G and 27, is receiving much favorable attention for the etchings and water color paintings he has submitted in the current exhibit at the Art Center in Now York City. His works make up a one-man show of 20 etchings and seven water colors.After finishing two years work at Carnegie, Mr. Crist, transferred 
to the Chicago Art Institute where lie received a scholarship that made it possible for him to visit Mexico in 1931 and complete some of the paintings he has placed in the exhibit. Others were painted in New York.
He is also exhibiting some of his work now in Pittsburgh at the first show of the Contemporary Art Center that is being held until Saturday in a showroom in the Union Trust Building.
Mr. Crist, who is a resident of Pittsburgh, won the first prize last February at the annual exhibit of Associated Artists of Pittsburgh. 
Last fall he was one of the outstanding artists at a free-for-all open air depression show that was held on the Hotel Schenley lawn.The exhibit in New York will continue until Saturday.
A NIGHT OF SPLENDOR____
The Annual IntercollegiateXmas Ball
.....FEATURING ......
Rudy Vail ee
and his Connecticut Yankees 
HOTEL WILLIAM PENN
Monday, December 26 
Dane! ng from 9 P. M. to 2 A. M. 
$6.00 Per Couple : : ; (including tax)
Prompt Return Of 
Tickets Are Asked
All night students who have not already done so, are requested to make prompt returns of all Thanksgiving Week Recess Dance tickets. 
Returns should bo sent to John F. Simpson, treasurer, Night Student Council, Carnegie Institute of Technology. Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa. If the returns are deposited in the inter-school mail slot of the post office in the basement of Administration Hall, no postage will be required.
Tickets sold for any function count toward an insignia award, and in order that full credit may be given all students are urged to make returns promptly.
Public Clamoring 
Disturbs Leisure 
Of Politicians
The repeal motion that was 
placed before our august lawmak
ers recently lias gone down to de
feat by a narrow margin. The 
politicians, at least many of them, 
seem at last to realize that the de
sires of the people possibly should 
be considered. The fact that the 
bill was defeated is not important. 
The law prohibiting the use and 
sale of intoxicating liquors has al
ways been rather ineffectual. The 
defeat of the bill leaves those who 
wish to drink faced Avith the same 
necessity of trusting their boot
legger to deliver the right bottles; 
and those who do not drink or even 
approve of drinking are rejoicing 
at this new supposed victory over 
the demon rum.
The really engaging fact that has 
been brought out is not that the 
wets or drys have gained or lost, 
but the fact that for the first time in some while, an issue that has been regarded by the general public has been seriously considered by the politicians within five years of the publics request for action.These august men, elected pre
sumably by the will of the people, have at last condescended to ro* 
gard the so-callod voice of the people as being something more than an idle gesture. The recent elec
tion was full of surprise, and carried a threat of enormous possibilities, using the ballot box as their main weapon, In the campaign of the people versus the politicians, at subsequent elections. If not because of a senso of public duty, but rather because of the fear ongondered by the results, the politicians liavo at last recognized the general public as an existing1 entity.
Night Ind. Workers To 
Report Jan. 7 In Gym
An opportunity will bo given to 
the workers on the Night College1 of Industries activities to earn points toward tho Night Student Council Insignia award on January 
7, 1083 when preparations will bo made for the dance to bo given that evening. All workers are Ihorefore requested to report at the mens gymnasium on Saturday afternoon, 2:00 p. m. This Is tho only announcement that will appear since there will not bo another issue of Tartan before tho affair. 
Do not, however, confuse this dance with the dance to bo hold this week.
Liberty Engraving Company
!rded TndIcsuIi *
A Sure 
Foundation
One of the HnfcHt foundation! 
on which to build your finan
cial independence 1m u savings 
account. Systematic saving 
begun while you are in collcgc 
will pave the way for \ suc
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pay liberal interest 
compounded semi-annually.
Mellon National Bank
=sc
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes 
Sold and. Rented 
SPECIAL RATES 
TO STUDENTS
Agency 
UNDERWOOD 
ROYAL 
REMINGTON 
and 
CORONA 
PORTABLES
iAMaNMLN 
e.7UELlAUL CPD
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Phone: ATlantic 0342 
Corona Personal 
Writing Machines
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT the engineers are gon
na trip the light fantastic in 
Thistle Hall this Saturday P. M. 
And am I going to forget all 
about slip sticks and circuits 
yes sir, believe you me.
THAT a well known typo
grapher was seen hanging 
around the arts school the 
other night. Spy No. 134 re
ports that he tried to make an 
imprint on a day school lassie, 
and did he have fun?
THAT if all the people with 
colds and coughs did their bark
ing en concert the noiso 
would be terrible.
THAT the parking rules rub
bed someone the wrong way 
when he got tagged, but we still 
think his kick was Justified.
THAT next week at this time 
we won't be with you. Its only 
vacation time and I'll be back 
to dish you some more dirt. 
Thought you had gotten rid of 
me, huh?
THAT the sponsor of an AllAmerican competition bars me 
from participation. Are we 
gonna have fun with that idea, 
dunt esk!THAT these cold nights test 
the mettle of every night stu
dent, and the desire to stay 
home near the fireside is
stronger than ever.
THAT the daily papers 
claimed that at a recent lecture 
given on our campus the speak
er stated that the usual engi
neering student neglected the 
cultural side of his education 
and thus tended toward narrow
mindedness on liberalizing sub
jects. Hum, this must mean 
something especially since the 
speaker was a famous engineer 
himself.THAT our old entertainer 
"From the Fence was conspic
uous by the absence from last 
week's issue of the Tartan. 
Come back F. T. F. all Is for
given.
THAT someone has threaten
ed to put fleas in somebodys 
army rations. Hey, we have 
some choice ones well lend you 
if you'll let us tie a string on 
them.
THAT we're gonna be gone 
till next year.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
seenya.
Phi Nu Confers 
Honors On Two 
Members Recently
On two occasions Phi Nu,' the 
niglit school social fraternity, paid 
honor to two of its members who 
were formerly registered in the 
night school.
The first, honor-was paid to the 
memory of Louis E. Glucksmau 
who was killed in action in tho 
World War on October 9, 19IS. 
The memorial was a gift of $300.00 from the fraternity to the 1946 
Carnegie Institute of Technology Endowment Fund. This donation is to be used to oquip a study room 
or a class room in some building on tho campus or in a building to bo erected in the future, but preferably in the College of Eigineering. The room when set aside is to be designated as the Louis E. Glucksmau Room.
Tho second honor was conferred upon Mr. William B. Skinkle at its fall meeting when the fraternity made him an honorary member in recognition of his services to the* organization and his record as a night student. Mr. Skinkle is one! of the charter members of the fraternity, having helped to organize it in 191G.
Puppet On Sale This 
Week On Night Campus
The next issue of Carnegie Tech Puppet will be on sale all this week. The last number was a soil out so you better make sure that 
your regular night salesman has a copy of this issue reserved for you to avoid disappointment.
You Cant Bo Popular . . . 
If Youre a Poor Dancer
We Will Teach Yon In 3 PrlyaU 
LossonsOnly $5 
Export Inatructlon
JACQUES SCHOOL 
OF DANCINGFORBES AND CRAIG STREETS Mayllowor 7891' HeirlnnorH ClasscHMonday and 
Friday Evening, 8:U0 o'clock. 
Social DancuHWith Orchestra Thursday and Saturday Evcninga, 
8 sito oclock.
In Uio Heart of Tech and Pitt
Vas You Dere, Charley ?
Was I there? And how! Never had a better time In my 
life!"
All of which you will bo happily shouting the morning after 
the night before, on which you attended tho Freshman AllCarnegle Dance. Perhaps you didn't know that tho date has 
been changed to January 6, or that tho tickets per couple are 
ONLY ten bits, orin dollars and centone dollar and twentyfive cents. Now, I ask you, who can afford to mlns this chance 
of a life time? Soft llghtn, iiweot music, and an Irroslutablo 
partnor. What a picture! And all for tho Insignificant sum 
of $1.25. So sot Janaury 0 aside for tho big ovent, and help 
the Freshmen make a big success of their first dance.
uUSPLU 
tUM4laF
for Home
Don't fail to inspect our line of
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
We have something for everyone
Priced to meet every purse
W00DLAWN PHARMACY
5200 Forbes St., Corner Woodlawn Ave. 
Phone Schenley 6300
LOUIS GORDON WISHES TECH A MERRY 
CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR
%
FORBES NATIONAL BANK
Your Home Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND - - - PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MUM-ON______________________________President
GEORGE II. CAMPBELL_____________________Vico PresidentHARRY S. BROWN .............................................. ........... CiiNhler
MISS N. C. FITZPATRICK...................................Assistant CashierJ. NEVIN GARBER_____________________Assistant Cinthlor
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
JOHN G. BOWMAN RICHARD K. MELLONChancellor Unlvorulty of Plt'tnhurgh Pronldont)
THOMAS S. BAKER Director Mollon National Bank
President Cnrnogj In.tltuto of WILLIAM S. MOOBIIEAD
JAMES M. BOVARD Moorhead & Knox. Attorney*
Moorhead & Knox, AI.U>rnoyn HERBERT A. MAYGEOROE H. CAMPBELL Vico President Union Drawn Steal
Vico Pronldont Company
T> II .J0,II,N & 9.ASEYr. HENRY A. PHILLIPSPresident JohniF. Casey Company Koul Estate
A. REX I* LINN AT AM AT or-A 1171?Pronldont Booth & Fllnn Company t> i i * w w a ir aHO WARD M. JOHNSON Vlco Prciildont Wm. B. facnlfo &
Auditor Li icon lor Valley Railroad bona Company
ELMER E. COLE EDWARI) It. WEIDLEIN
Prcaldont National Union Flro Director Mellon Institute ofInsurance Company Industrial Research

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEOTE TARTAN, TLSDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1932
<il\c Carnegie Hartan
Edltor-ln-Chlcf 
IIuiiIiichh Mnnngcr _________Hnzcl 0473
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2C00 
After OHicc Iloti Cnll 
__Sehcnley 0430 Sport Editor
Fluid Editor___________Scltcnlcr 0C80_____Hciicnlcy 2389
Publliihed weekly during Iho collotfo year by undorifrtulimtG of Curnojjlo InntituUj of 
Tochnolojfy. Entorod in the PillMburj'h Post Office an econd-elami natter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF---------
BUSINESS MANAGER..
..JOHN W. LADD
PLAID EDITOR----------------
____________JULIUS HALFERN------------ELIZABETH FRELLEK
________JOSEPH C. BRONSON_____EDWARD E. MCDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editor! Ghrlntlno Lolghou Alumni Editor: Honclcttn StolnborKDolly Allliion 
Hurry Howor
Excliunuo Editor:
Annliiiimcnt Editor: Anthony Cnrnvnlo
Marjorie Dougherty 
Ruth Phillips
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE 
Edmund McCormick, Anthony Gncchiono, Jonoph Adam, Jncque Mlnnotto.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Jonopli Adnrn, Anthony Cncchiono, Loretta Conlln, Alico -Honzl, John lillU, Edmund McCormick, Surnuel Wlckn, Jiicquo Mlnnotto.
SPECIAL WRITERS: Mary ustbaalbiary Stanton Williamn.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Klooi, Women' Editor; Ned Stirling;. John Lowes, 
Jnmen Hnlforty, Jerry llnnnon, Clifton Carr.
PLAID STAFF: Janie II. SniiMonetti, New Editor; Frank tMboplay A. N. Even, H. 
E. McGannon.ADVERTISING STAFF:' Jamen E. Stahl, Mnnnirer; William Waldrnan, AoBlBtunt; Morton Gurmlne, William McKenna, Edtcar Meyer, Jeromo E. Kuppol.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Flncln, MunnKcr; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Rononlx-rK. Albert lryce-Jone, Al>e Lolp/.ljf.
REPORTERS: Mariiarot Grlflin, Veronica KIoob, Anna Ladd, Thelma Shelloy, Ger
trude UreakBtone, Jayne Henderiton, Peter PauluB, Harold Bner, Jannetle Black, Marian Malakoir, Gwen Haddock, Ruth GuBtafson, Jane Miller, Roy Minet, Vir
ginia wasisay William Landflberji, Jane Livingston, Davlnon IronB.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacob, Ann Kaufman, Sarah Patterson, Lillian Diamond, Sarali 
Friedman.
The End of Another Rushing Season
Another fraternity rushing season has come to an end ancl 
170 men have affiliated themselves with the different fraternal 
groups. For some fraternities, the results of the rushing sea
son are satisfactory. On the other hand, there arc the usual 
dissatisfactions about the rushing rules.
Many comments have been made about the new system of 
contacting and many of the fraternities, as well as the adminis
tration, are highly pleased with the dignified manner in which 
rushees were contacted. 'While the adoption of the new system 
naturally caused some misunderstandings, the contacting period 
proved highly successful. In several eases, there was the usual 
unco-operative spirit on the part of some of the fraternities 
during the first day. Some fraternity men deliberately went 
into shops and drawing rooms and made dates with rushees 
before the classes were dismissed. These infractions are minor, 
yet the Interfraternity Council should see that they are prop
erly brought before the Regulations Committee for disposal. 
Unless this is done, little respect will be held for the Interfarternity Council rulings.
One of the greatest drawbacks of the present rushing sys
tem is the lack of opportunity for rushees to thoroughly con
sider the two or three houses in which they are most interested. 
However, the thought of a longer rushing season as intensive as 
the one just past is abhored by all fraternities.
The Function of a University
At the recent Conference of Universities held in New York 
opposite and interesting views on the function of the univer
sity in modern society were presented by two eminent educa
tors. Sir James Irvine, principal and vice chancellor of the 
University ol! St. Andrews, Scotland, and speaker at the recent 
Carnegie Day exercises, contended that the function should be 
to train leaders, while Dr. L. D. Coffman, president of the 
University ol! Minnesota, said that a university most nearly 
fulfills its obligation to society when it constantly measures 
itself by the extent to which tho life of the community it serves 
lias been improved.
Sir Irvine maintained: "It is tho old question of whether 
it is better to pursue knowlodgo or to acquiro wisdom, and if 
I road the situation aright the seekers alter wisdom are in 
tho ascendancy. In short, a university is responsible for en
larging tho boundaries ol! knowledge, rather than for coloniz
ing the toi'ritory it explores.
It is a truism to say that tho world noods leaders and 
that no educational system can ho so organized as to produce 
leaders with same regularity as tho universities provide doc
tors or barristers or politicians.
Yet the power ol! leadership is greatest when couplcd 
with the wisdom and understanding tho uiversities strive to pro
vide and I often wonder il! our present methods in whieli wc 
attempt to ignore the biological law that the efficiency of the 
few is secured by the sacrifice of tho inefficient many arc more 
likely to lead to a dull uniformity tliun to produce the partic
ular men the world requires.
The swing of the pendulum is in the direction of more 
personal tuition and this in the end demands a more drastic 
selection of students and a more widely spread adoption of tho 
tutorial residential system. The traditional lecture courses 
may not be altogether doomed, but they will become less prom
inent than at present and the same may be said of the examina
tion system, which, after all, has a comparatively short history.
Opposing this view, Dr. Coffman declared: Growing out 
of and flourishing in the very soil of democracy, supported 
and maintained by all the people, committed unequivocally to 
a more highly trained intelligence of the masses, believing 
that the road to intellectual opportunity should never be closed, 
maintaining a wide-open door for all those who are willing to 
make the trial, the state universities, nevertheless, have held 
in common with the private universities, a high sense ol! obli
gation with regard to the necessity and importance of advanc
ing human knowledge, of promoting research, and of training 
those of superior gifts for especial leadership.
These views are typical of the system of college training 
popular in Great Britain and the United States. Too often the 
newer American system is allowed to turn into a mass pro
duction schemesvfggosted by Dr. Coffman's wide-open door 
policywith unsatisfactory results. Men and women are grad
uated into tho world, supposedly educated, who are inadequate
ly equipped to face lifes problems.
In America it is believed that everyone should bo given an 
equal opportunity, and, consequently, individuals are admitted 
to universities, trained in masses, and turned out at graduation 
in multitudes. Some are ready to take their places in the world, 
others arc not. Possibly tho greatest criticism of tho Ameri
can system is tho opportunity for the windy instructor with his 
pet theories to guide the students thoughts instead of allowing 
them to think for themselves.
Admitting that ones thoughts should be guided along 
proper channels, it is undeniable that Sir Irvines statement 
the swing of the pendulum is in the direction of more per
sonal tuition and this in the end demands a more drastic selec
tion of students and a more widely spread adoption of the tu
torial residential system indicates a desirable educational sys
tem. Many students would get more out of their college careers 
if they were allowed to acquire their education under the tu
torial system and not subjected to the retarding influence of the 
rambling lecturer and uninterested student.
National Exhibit 
Will Be Shown 
Week Of Jan. 25
The national exhibition of "The 
Fifty Books of the Year -will be 
shown in the College of Fine Arts 
under the auspices of the Department of Printing during the week of January 23, 1933. This will be the only opportunity for Pittsburghers to see this exhibition which is sponsored annually by the American Institute of Graphic Arts.The exhibition, which will be open to tiie general public, Is to be started by a lecture meeting at which Laurarice B. Siegfried, editor of the American Printer, is expected to give the address.More than G50 books were submitted this year by 150 publishers, printers, and designers. A jury comp6sed of Lester Douglas, art director of "Nations Business, Washington^ D. C.; Arthur W. Rushmore, and Joseph M. Bowles made the selection of books. Selection was based on physical merits of the book, irrespective of price, from the viewpoint of typographical design, press work, binding, and in general the extent to which the publisher had solved the problem involved.The exhibition, which opened at tho New York Public Library on February 9, goes to all the important cities in the United States. The exhibition committee is composed of Edward F. Stevens, Pratt Institute Library; James A. Anderson, and George G. Nelson.
Fraten --fME ] " EsfG
R. L. Templin To Speak 
At Theta Tan Meeting
Tlieta Tau, honorary engineering fraternity, will conduct an open meeting tomorrow night at 7:30 o'clock in Room E: Ii-51. The guest speaker, Mr. R. L. Templin, 
will speak on "The Testing of Materials and Structures in the Aluminum Industry." Mr. Templin is tiie chief engineer of tests in the Aluminum Research Laboratories of the Aluminum Company of America. He is also very active in tiie American Society of Testing Materials. Because aluminum is coming into prominence as a structural material, the talk should be very interesting to students. All engineering students are invited to attend.
INTERCOLLEGIATE
CLIPS
An "American Intercollegiate Association of Gigolos has been organized at Santa Barbara College to escort the co-eds, who far outnumber the men, to social events. The student sponsors dedicated theniBelves to provide the proper men in proper attire for any and every occasion. The association said they would seek to 
organize chapters throughout the 
country.
If you wish to be up to date, dont say "quick as a wink. Say one-fortieth of a second. That is tiie avorage time required for a wink, as determined by a highspeed photography device at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology.
Gary Cooper, the popular fllm star, tried three times to get Into tiie dramatic club at 
Grlnnel University and failed. Now Ihe club has invited him to become an honorary member. 
Speaking of Grinnell, we bear that I,ho football team has acquired the nickname of "Bulbs because its 
coachs name is Watt.
At tiie University of Rochester all graduates ol! the class ol! 1932 who have been unable to secure employment are permitted to return to the institution and study for their master or doictors degree without charge.
The Buchtelite, college publication of University of Akron, recently contained the head, "Want to Neck? Heres Chance. The news story proved to be an item about the value of wrestling education.
The cost of cutting classes at the University of Edinburgh is a sixpence flue, the revenue being used to buy a Christmas present for the president of the college. Last year the present was a cigar.
An asterisk is placed before the names of unmarried profs in the University of Minnesota catalog . . . merely for the convenience 
of the co-eds.
A sign placed on the deans door at Creighton University read: "Get your grades here and pass out 
quietly.
All students attending the spring dances at Michigan State College may cut classes from 3 p. m. on the day of the dance, and all classes on the folloAving morning. Its nice to learn the customs of other campuses, isnt it?
Music Student Give 
Mt. Mercy Musicale
Last, night, three piano students from tho Department of .Music 
gavo a recital by special Invitation at. Mount Morey Collego, undor tho auspices of tho hitters music department. The invitation was tendered by Sister Sebastian Phelan, head' of the Music Department. of Mount Mercy College, and 
a graduate of the Carnegie Music School.The program, arranged by Mr. Selmar Janson, piano instructor here, was as follows:"Emperor Concerto-----BeethovenMarion SwanSymphonic Variations...........FranckBess Moredock
Concerto in A Minor................GreigEarl Wild
LITTLE OLD NEW YORK
While the football team and as many others as 
could make it were in New York for turkey din
ner a bunch of boys went out to take in the 
sights of Manhattan. Tom Coulter was strolling 
along telling the boys how much taller they grew 
them in the Icings country when the group blun
dered across the Empire State building. Tom immediately became engrossed in counting the number of stories from the ground floor to the
observation platform, continuing to walk along with the group as he counted. Our hero had become so engrossed in his task that he failed to call a halt with the rest of the group when they reached the corner and was making rapid strides toward a collision with a parked horse when one of New Yorks finest made a flying frog block and took Tom out just in time to save the horse.
IN THE BIG CITY
Jimmy Stahl, Clyde Heinzer, and Hank Dresliar 
talked the man at the box office of the new Earl 
Carrol Vanities into letting them sit in orchestra 
seats for half price.
Three other Tecliites went to the Lexington to hear Don Bestor and got themselves announced over the N.B.C. net work. In case you hard the announcements and wonder who the hot shots were Greek Gossip confided in me said the names would appear in this issue of Puppet.
John Kroneberg still lives up to that new nickname he acquired in New York Thanksgiving time. The "First Nighter still continues to attend the openings.
John Ladd wanted to utilize Emil Stanleys wonderful head of hair by getting him a violin case and crashing the stage entrance of the Paramount as Rubinoff, but when the boys alighted at Times Square they found they were a week early, since neither could double for Rudy Vallee they had to pay to get in.
*****
SINCE THE LAST TIME
We finally heard that Joe Lentz was the first 
to give up a Dragon key for years and years. And
speaking of Maxine did you see the pictures in 
the recent Sunday tab? Despite the photograph
er we could recognize Beky Williams.
One old campus couple now retired, visited re
cently. Yessir, Bill Crosby and Ruth Osborn are 
the duo in question.
Greekess Gossip hinted that maybe we were 
slightly prejudiced on the subject of sororities, but we counted, to see how often Tri-Gam was mentioned in her own column. The glass house was making so much noise we couldnt think up an excuse just off hand.
*****
HERR MAX
Our old pal Max Hannum is now a full-fledged coach. If you dont believe it, get him to show you the pictures he had in the Sun-Tele last week. TJhe one with the whistle that looks like a kid liCking an ice cream cone is the berries. Dont let him hold it out. After watching a practice or two we predict that Max will begin to get bald in the very near future. When a play jams up he has a standard Nonononono that he uses and the other night when one of the new ones clicked the first time he. came out with a hot chacliachacha.*****
THE EPEDEMIC
An influenza epidemic during rushing season 
certainly gave Mrs. Kirkpatrick more than her 
share of worries during the past week: The fra
ternities had to get in touch with the sick fresh
men, the laid-up brothers, and dance dates that 
were temporarily off their feet. But Mrs. Kirk
patrick wasnt the only one that had worries. Think of those poor D.U. boys that got word of the fact that their tuxedos had been b u t che reddown to the dimensions of some of the freshmen who lacked the proper attire for the rushing formal. Well be looking for them at the Junior Prom.
We dont know why but when those two Beta lady killers, Jacques Croissant and Brad Edelblut, went down with the flu they put them in the girls infirmary.
DRAMA REVIEW
By WARD WARREN
Nearly sixty years have passed 
since the first performance of Tom 
Taylors Ticket-of-Leave Man 
was given in the Olympic Theater, 
London. In that interval the dra
ma gradually dropped the stage 
conventions displayed in that Vic
torian production, and grew into 
'the present-day realistic play. 
Modern audiences, however, seem 
to enjoy their little bit of hankypanky just as much as audiences 
did back in the GOs. After watch
ing the Department of Dramas 
production of the Ticket-of-Leave 
Man last Tuesday evening and 
observing tho flushed elation 
shown on the faces of most of the 
patrons as they left the Little 
Theater, we had a new respect for 
the older dramatists and their abil
ity to strike aciross the footlight 
and bind their audience into a responsive whole.
Tuesdays audience got into the spirit of the play almost at once, and rode along right up beside the 
players, hissing the villain and 
applauding the hero. The production was done seriously and it was 
received in the same manner.From the performance itself the outstanding impression received was one of unity, of point, of di
rectness. The work of the players was unusually uniformly good, each performer playing his part as one of a group rather than as an Individual striving for prominence. 
This teamwork obviously can be attributed to the direction. The directors hand, > though, never 
seemed obtrusive; rather, it apparently had the effect of liftingup the whole cast to the point where the combination clicked.Helen Siseinvain, as Sam Willough, by Esquire, gave as fine and as enjoyable a performance as we 
have seen in the Little Theater this year. Her impish, swaggering characterization of the chap who thought that lie had cut his eyeteeth early held throughout, espeially in the second act. Jane Witmer nicely developed the part of May Edwards from the patlietc singing lass of the first act to thai of the brave wife and companion in the fourth. Faced by an embarrassing missliap. in the second 
act, she went right on like an experienced trouper. Henrietta Sis
kin, who played'the garrulous Mrs. Willoughby zipped through her 
lines with such energetic speed that she got the desired effect in spite of the fact that her tumbling 
words could not be understood much of the time.
Through no fault of his, Thomas Gorman seemed too mature for our 
conception of Bob Brierly, though this objection was somewhat minimized by his sincerity. Donald
Gallagher apparently stepped quite naturally into the role of the extravagant Hawkshaw, playing him right up to the hilt. He did his 
best work with the fine opportunities given him in the third act. The edge of his big climatic line at the end of Scene 1, Act IV, was lost by dropping his Ginger characterization before removing his dsguise. Willia Beals unquestioned ability to triple his years for 
stage purposes won for him another thankless role as Mr. Gibson. The Green Jones pair, Irene Cowan and Robert Gill, were equally able in their respective parts, and 
especially so in their song and 'dance numbers.
The villains have been put last where they find themselves after 
the fourth act has umvound itself. Franklin Heller went his evil way 
with a clever persistence that repeatedly drew hisses from the audience; yet in the fourth act he almost made us feel sorry for the poor wretch who was forced to travel the lower road because of 
the curse of Portland. Lisping Melter Moss reminded us of a character cut from the pages of Dick
ens. William Bales gave a splendidly steady performance in the first 
major part we have seen him play, 
shuffling in and out with a buz
zard-like intentness on his filmflaming schemes.
The Maniacs Tear, which is reported to have been written and 
composed by students in the department, Avas one of the brightest 
interludes in the performance and commanded an encore. Miss 
Bernice Austin is to be complimented for her apt arrangement of the music which delightfully 
served to complement the work of the players. 0The settings, done in the style current when the Ticket-of-Leave Man was written, added their quiet influence to the creation of the Victorian atmosphere. The act-curtain in particular was very well done and, in the darkened theater with only the illumination from the footlights playing upon it, served to heighten our feeling, of pleasurable anticipation.
Ellington and Peyton 
To Play Anatole Ball
The annual Anatole Club Christmas Night Ball will be held at the Hotel Schenley. It will begin at midnight, Sunday, December 25. The music will be furnished by 
Duke Ellington and his famous orchestra and Doc Peyton and his orchestra. Table service will accompany the dancing.
Tickets, which cost $3.30 a couple, are on sale in advance and may be secured from Marion McNary and Harry Hower, campus agents.
ANATOLE 
Christmas Ball
Hotel Schenley
With Table Service
DUKE ELLINGTON
----------and----------
HIS FAMOUS ORCHESTRA
------Also------
DOC PEYTON
AND HIS ORCHESTRA 
CHRISTMAS NIGHT AT MIDNIGHT 
Pre-sale $3.30 per couple until December 21
Ole Singstad Will
Lecture Here Wed.
Continued From Page 1
atmospheric conditions safe for 
drivers. Mr. Singstad, however, 
solved this problem so successfully 
that the ventilation was pro
nounced one hundred per cent 
efficient. Every minute 3,761,000 
cubic feet of fresh air are supplied 
to the tunnel, and fourteen highly 
sensitive, automatic carbon mon
oxide recorders, developed by the 
Bureau of Mines, are employed to 
test the carbon monoxide content 
of the air. . In an article in the 
Sheet Metal Worker the Holland 
Tunnel was called the eighth 
wonder of the world.
Intercollegiate Ball 
Features Rudy Vallee.
The annual Intercollegiate - Ball 
will be held this yeax* Monday 
night, December 26. The dance 
will feature Rudy Vallee. Once 
more the entire seventeenth floor 
of the William Penn has been re
served for the occasion and enter
tainment will be offered during in
termissions.
This year balcony boxes will be 
sold, the entire proceeds of these 
sales going to the Welfare Fund. Tickets for the dance are six dollars including tax and may be secured from Harry Hower until December 24.
Incidents like this never 
harm Nisley quality <
because Nisleys two factories 
produce quality that can be 
compared, only to high priced 
shoes and styles you 
know are right!
Eleanorof Rnvcn black or Javanese brown
533 Liberty Avenue 
6016 Penn Avenue
Ex-Consul Will 
Lecture In Music 
Hall On Thursday
The Academy of Science and Art, a local intellectual organization formed for the advancement of science and art in the Pittsburgh district, will present the 
seventh of a series of lectures on subjects of world-wide interest on Thursday evening at 8:15 in the Carnegie Music Hall. The topic of the lecture will be, The Conflict in Manchuria. It will be delivered by E. Carleton Baker, former United States^Consul General at Mukden.
Mr. Baker believes it is time for some one who knows how to speak boldly and give the facts in regard to this conflict in which the rights and interests of America and other countries are so vitally involved. He will present these facts in his lecture. His account of life in Manchuria, its people and resources, the dominant figures, the personalities and policies of China, Russia, and Japan, throw a flood of light upon the history, and destiny of this disputed danger spot 
of the Orient.
Methodists Pledge Six 
To National Sorority
Kappa Phi, national intercollegiate Methodist sorority for women announces that it has pledged 
the following women from Carnegie: Jane Myers, Florence McCullough, Lurline Williams, Jean Lydich, Emma L. S.uess,. Virginia Jones.The following have been pledged 
from Pitt: Letitia Oster, Eliza
beth McKarney, Margaret Lehm, Alice Maclien, Harriet McMaster, Virginia Dawson, Margaret Riggs, 
Frances Goodwin, Thelma Mykoff, Janet Sliose, Emma Leighty, Mary Ann Pragner, Gracia Faust, Dorothy Armstrong; and the following from Frick: Pearl McKissock, Mary Speaker, Lillian Smith, Gertrude Miller.
The annual Christmas party of 
this fraternity will be held tonight at the Carnegie Inn.
A new gag to use on the Oakland Coppers and erstwhile hold-up men comes to us from Syracuse: Dont shoot, mister, weve got an aged mother and a football team to support.
English Ways
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
The wise ones tell us that the 
thought is what counts, meaning 
thereby that the idea to be con
veyed by any given bit of discourse 
is the important part of it, and im 
plying that the rhetorical devices 
for presenting or conveying this 
idea are quite secondary.
But if this idea is not clearly and unmistakably expressed for the reader or hearer, or if it is so vague and distorted that it is misunderstood, and cannot form thebasic for any required response,, what then?
We have experienced cases of this obscurity. The college lecturer, for example, has many times been credited with a thorough 
knowledge of his subject matter, and charged with failure to explain it clearly to his students. Some of them, the rawer and greener ones, will probably say that ProfessorEnglish sure knows his stuff, but he cant get it across; others with a little more discrimination, but no more sympathy or appreciation,, will say that we think ProfessorEnglish knows his stuff, but w&- have no way of knowing, for Tvhen he isnt talking over our heads by taking too much for granted, orstressing something beside themain point, he is so dull and uninteresting that we go to sleep.Obviously something is wrong,.. 
and that something is the expression of the thought. Let us grant that the thought is important, vital,, significant, moving, instructive, elevating, or entertaining, of what value is it to apy one save him in 
whose mind it remains locked?" What effect can it have if it is expressed without regard for its pro^ 
portionate worth among several thoughts? Who will give it the attention it deserves if it is no so phrased as to be interesting? Who 
tention it deserves if it is not so explained in terms with which the reader or hearer is familiar, as to be understood?The power of clear expression is as essential to the life of great creative thought as any form is toany matter.
How to make money while at school: A co-ed at Manchester inherited an entire museum of natural history, and the college purchased it from her to add to its collection.
ANATOLE 
New Years Eve
HOTEL SCHENLEY
------with------
TOMMY CHRISTIAN
AND HIS ORCHESTRA 
$3.30 per Couple
Settle ^IJour 
Christmas (Plans at
Frat erni ssPldig
/^/f FEW days moreihen home for Christmas t 
S Let the telephone settle your holiday plans. 
[Thats the easy way to make your dates, decide on 
gifts and tell the family when youll arrive.
Call home tonight! After 8:30 P. M. low Night Rates 
go into effect on Station to Station calls. To take 
advantage of the saving, just give the operator your 
home telephone number.
Inexpensive? These night-time Station to Station 
- - calls are so low priced you can make it a habit to
call home regularly once a week. Fix a day and hour. 
 1 Then Mother and Dad will he waiting and you can
"d* always use Station to Station service.
From Pittsburgh to:
Station to Station Call 
3-Minute Connection Wherever applicable 
Federal tax ia included. 
Day Rate Night Rate
.. $0.65$0.35
.85.45
.80.40
Hagerstown, Md. ...85.45
Youngstown, Ohio ..45.35
