TARTAN
October 25. 1977 Volume 78, Number 8 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Oct ober 2c5c.19 7151Vc. 7luc mc..85 ,cNc5,C anc Ca1al85g
CMU switches to Centrex
WRCT elects Manager
by Ed Frankenberry
Following the stormy resignation of exGeneral Manager Amy Boyle, WRCT staf
fers have elected Mike Herron as sucessor. 
This installment, made October 13, com
pletes the stations Executive Board for 
1977-78.
When explaining her resignation last 
-week, Boyle made numerous charges con
cerning station personnel, which Herron 
termed inaccurate and erroneous. 
Specifically, Boyle alleged that a general 
lack of cooperation...motivation and 
foresight on the part of the staff prevent
ed her from making any progress. Herron 
suggests, however, that the resistance 
was a distortion possibly stemming from a 
** personality Gonflict with a couple of 
people who, he says, Boyle perceived as
Monitor hurt 
while on duty
By Saul Carliner
Last week, the Morewood Desk Mon
itor was injured in the line of duty when 
answering a distress call.
According to Morewood Resident As
sistant Claudia Geraci, the monitor, whose 
name is being witheld on request, had 
received complaints of noise last Saturday
* night. October 15, between 2 and 4 AM. 
When the monitor went out to investig
ate the situation, he encountered a group 
of non-CMU students who punched 
him out."
The monitor was taken to Shadyside hospital, where he was treated for 
face injuries. Geraci stated that his eye
glasses were broken, and his face was 
, cut and swollen. The monitor was re^ leased, and was back on duty by 4 AM.
Geraci said that she has a pretty good 
idea of who the assailants are. but would 
not elaborate upon that except to say 
that they were outsiders.
When questioned about the incident, 
the injured monitor, who is back on the 
job again this week; had no comment 
on the experience^
Geraci added that many thefts have 
occurred in Morewood A-D-Towers. as 
well as destruction to lounge furniture.
Rumors quelled
One day during my freshman year, I was 
cleaning my room in Dormer, and a young 
man walked slowly past, peering curiously 
in the door. I ignored him and he left. A 
few minutes later, he reappeared and stood 
solemnly in the doorway.
 > ") 'on live here *" he asked.
I looked at him strangely. "Yeah, what 
**f it? "
7 don't know," he said, shuffling liis 
feet. "Mayhe / shoiildn't tell you. "
"What? Tell me what *"
"Well," he said forebodingly, "I lived 
here last year. And the guy who lived here 
the vear before commit ted suicide in this
* room."
a personal affront to her authority. 
Programming Director Judi Vitale be
lieves that most of the difficulties resulted 
from a lack of team effort. One per3 
son who doesn't run a radio station. she if 
explained. Amy was trying to. thats how 
she failed.
ia1al85 91-uc, -8ncCl85
The main thing both Herron and Vi
tale agree, is that there was no communi
cation [while Boyle was General Mana
ger] . Instead of clearly defining jobs and 
delegating responsibility (as Herron says 
he had doneX Boyle seemed to be trying 
to do it all herself, Herron stated.
One example concerns the proposed re
location of the stations broadcast antenna 
to Warner Hall to increase broadcast range. 
After the paperwork of filing forms with 
the Federal Communications Commission 
had been completed, and the go-ahead 
given, a snafu arose in having the physical 
plant lay the cable. According to Vitale, 
paralysis came about because everyone 
assumed that...Amys O.K. was [neces
sary]  before the already-approved project 
could commence.
Rather than a lack of cooperation or 
laziness as Boyle described, Vitale feels 
that confusion resulted from a lack of 
guidelines, communication, and no 
[sense of] direction imparted by Boyle.
She says Boyle wouldnt use her author
ity. In contrast, Vitale describes Herron, 
who uses his AMS background, as a good 
organizer [who] encourages each of us to 
do our jobs.
mc..85 9lCaC M.l8.lalcC
High on Herrons list of priorities are 
the completion of WRCTs new master 
control room (a task thats been variously 
attempted for the last six years). relo - 
eating the stations antenna by September, 
and improving WRCTs campus image.
He plans to do this through a survey of 
music preference among student listeners, 
to be kept in mind for programming. 
Herron also plans to appoint a new Dir
ector of Public Relations.
WRCT will retain its free-form for
mat, but with some innovations planned to 
provide the best service we can said 
Programming Director Judi Vitale. Timeblock structuring, in which 60-minute 
periods are scheduled with emphasis on 
specific types of music is in the works.
A daily local news feature has been intro-85al5Uc, 85 M1Vc v
"You re kidding!"
"Nit. He hung himself from the chan
delier. They say during finals you can see 
his ghost sw inging back amijorth. "
Everyone at CMU has heard this conver
sation at least once. And everyone knows 
that CMU has the nation's highest suicide 
rate, especially among architects, right?
Wrong, according to Dr.1 Robert Morgan, 
head of the Counseling Center. Dr. Morgan 
says that he knows of no study in which 
the suicide rates of different campuses have 
actually been tabulated. However, he does 
know of a study which indicated that this 
rumor circulates on every high-pressure 
campus in the country.
by Linda Deak
A little over three weeks ago. all uni
versity phones were given new 578 ex
changes and put on the Centrex system, 
except the phones in resident dorm rooms.
Centrex makes it possible for any
outside caller to dial direct any university 
phone without having to go through an 
operator, as before. For example, if one 
wished to call the Admissions Office
under the old system, he would have to 
dial 621-2600, and wait for an operator 
to connect him with that number. Now, 
one can dial th;t office directly.
Centrex also makes it possible for 
anyone to dial an on-campus number by 
dialing just the last four digits of the
phone number, since all p-ones are on
the same exchange. Because of this, anyone 
wishing to dial a number outside the 
578 exchange must dial 9 first, and then 
the number.
Telephones in resident dorm rooms, 
however, will not join the university 
Centrex system until January, even though 
some of these rooms already have phones 
with a 578 exchange. By January, in
stallations of a 578 phone in every dorm 
room should be completed, and then the
suicide rate
The rumors are a way that students can 
reassure themselves of their worth in a 
high-pressure atmosphere, says Morgan 
Also, its something to tell your mother 
and father: 'Hey, you think its bad that 
I'm on probation...all these people are 
committing suicideV Some reasontor 
the intense atmosphere at CMU j c the 
professionalism of the school and the 'Pstant judgment of students by the tacu 
notes Morgan. However, many student 
bring problems with them to CMU.
Morgan believes that there may have 
been more than a few attempts; however, 
the last realized suicide here was the one at 
Mudge last spring. The last one before that 
was five years ago.
switchover of this portion of the campus 
community to Centrex will be possible.
Work on installation of these telephones 
began October 17 in Mudge. The workmen 
will move on to Morewood. and then go 
on to the Hill area dorms. Fraternities will 
not be on the Centrex system.
Each dorm room will receive a beige 
wall phone, installed near the doorway in 
most cases, so that it doesnt belong to 
any side. Phone service is restricted to 
45 message units a month (a message 
unit varies depending upon length of call 
and distance called).
Students who wanted private telephones 
before January could have them installed, 
but only under the conditions set forth 
by the University, as stated above, so that 
all phones will be uniform in style and ser
vice for the January switchover. Until 
that time, students are responsible for 
their telephone bills.
-85al5Uc, 85 M1Vc vinside
news...
S.W.E. promotes engineering (pg.2)
SARC representatives meet (pg.3) ;
Senate makes expenditures (pg.3)entertainment. i
I Mayall comes up with remarkable I
band (pg. 16)
Valentino fails as movie (pg. 16)
sports...
T:t t.tns no 1. i i M'. title (p 20
| Women's Field Hockey finishes
; seas tn (p l>)
folio...
My favorite course (pg. 7)
-J
Students exaggerate high
by Stephanie Waite

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANOctober 25, 1977
Not for women only
Organization promotes engineering
by Dan Livak
Youve probably noticed the letters 
S.W.E. on posters and in the TARTAN or 
Campus Calendar, but do you know what 
they stand for? If not, then you are unin
formed about one of the largest and most
active organizations at CMU; the Society of 
Women Engineers.
S.W.E. has nearly ninety members and 
despite the name, the organization is not 
restricted to women or engineers. It is open 
to all members of the campus who have an
interest in engineering or might have to 
deal with engineering in future situations.
S.W.E. aims to prepare students for en
try into the job market. S.W.E. argues that 
it is becoming increasingly more and more 
helpful, regardless of area of specialization, 
to have a knowledge of engineering, and 
deal with the engineering aspects of an or
ganization. S.W.E. attempts to accomplish 
this through interaction with local corpor
ations and by sponsoring talks with local 
experts in the field.
S.W.E. is a national organization and se
veral chapters exist in Pittsburgh besides 
the one at CMU. The University of Pitts
burgh, Seton Hill College and Duquesne 
University all have chapters, and occasion
ally S.W.E. members from these Pittsburgh 
schools meet and hold joint events, such as 
tours of local corporation, so that students
 can see engineering, as they will experienceia3 it in future years.
3 Another purpose of S.W.E. is to encour
age the development of women engineers. 
Nationally, women comprise less than 10% 
of all engineering students. CMU has 
nearly twice the national average and today 
approximately 200 of the almost 1300 CIT 
students are women.
S. W. E. sponsors numerous events. 
Upcoming events include trips to Ohio Bell 
and U. S. Steel, a spaghetti dinner Novem
ber 6th, and a Technical Careers Day.
S. W. E. meetings are held the first 
Sunday of every month. Anyone inte
rested in S. W. E. should attend a meeting, 
or contact President Marilyn Schnell,
Phones installed
-85al5Uc, N.8s M1Vc y
However, after January, the University 
will absorb the monthly charge for tele
phone service, except for toll calls and 
long-distance calls.
Students whodo not wish to have 
phone service will have a phone installed 
anyway, as the phone does not go into 
operation unless everyone in a room pays 
a $22.00 hook-up fee. This can be paiu 
any time after installation (even if service is 
desired prior to January). .
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, commented on the delay in 
student Centrex. We decided to take 
Centrex at a very reasonable pace. The 
agreement with Bell of Pennsylvania was 
to install the administrative Centrex first, 
then to continue with the service to stu
dents. The basic reason for it beginning in 
January is that it takes that long for the 
large number of phones to be installed. I 
think this was a good decision, because 
the Administrative Centrex worked very 
smoothly after being similarly installed.
Representatives i
POh3wbihrx
dS p
 idPrmwbO
eTAhSdbOhT
to be on campus (
. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18
? <
, Graduate study information - all <, fields of Letters, Arts & Sciences <
, and Engineering. Special em<
, phasis on Sciences, Math and <
> Engineering. <
, Contact <
Career Services <
> and Placement (
RRRRRRRRRRRR
The SDC space
by Stephanie Waite
Lounge renovations and security were 
among the topics discussed at the last 
SDC meeting, on October 15.
John Muse returned to the SDC this 
week to hear the residents suggestions 
for lounge improvement, through their 
SDC representatives. Some basic needs 
were brought up, such as improved lights 
in the lounges, better dining and kitchen 
areas, a bigger Servomation area, and the 
need for a central meeting place on 
campus, something like a pub (a pro - 
posal which is hampered by Pennsylvanias 
liquor laws).
Other ideas brought up included a glass 
enclosure on the top of Hammerschlag 
to be used as a lounge area, an indoor 
garden in one of the basements, and some 
newer video-pinball games.
iaU,c5aC M.8M8Cc l,c1C
Muse also asked the representatives tor 
some totally outlandish ideas; things 
they thought the school would never do. 
A room where people could go to smash 
things, a room with a water bed, (for 
people in need of a physical outlet), a 
computer terminal on the Hill, an en
closure on top of Donner Hall in which to 
play sports in during the winter, a padded 
hall to play Frisbee in, and an above
ground passageway to walk to classes in 
were mentioned.
Resident Director Corey Chase an
nounced that the Welch lounge has finally 
opened, except for one enclosed area. He 
also announced that there is a box in front 
of the Housing Office, where residents 
can place a work order that has been filled 
out specifically.
ic-U.laz GUcCal85 .1lCc,
Morewood Resident Director Claudia 
Geraci urged Morewood representatives to 
find out their constituents feelings about 
security. Thefts have been reported in 
Morewood, and the desk monitor was 
beaten up recently when answering a 
distress call.
As a result of suspected phony receipts 
turned in for SDC subsidized parties, SDC 
will now require alcohol receipts and an 
itemized accounting of alL party expendi
tures.
President Sam Grego announced the 
crime report from September. There were 
3 assaults, 23 burguianes, 2 indecent 
exposures, and 4 fires on campus in Sep
tember. Personal property losses amoun
ted to $1,904 and University property 
losses amounted to $597. Grego also 
announced that Henderson will be locked 
soon, at the request of residents there.
Monies were appropriated for the 
SDC Buggy, and a motion was passed to 
send a letter to the Housing Office re
questing that the SDC be reimbursed for 
buggy tools that were lost this summer due 
to Housing Office carelessness.
WSCT announces 
staff changes
-85al5Uc, N.8s M1Vc y
duced within the 7-8 PM hour which will 
be expanded to include sports reporting. 
Plans are being made for comedy shows, 
and possibly live concerts and dramatic 
productions.
The station is licensed to serve and 
involve the campus community. In line 
with this policy, Herron said WRCT will 
be highly visible during the Spring Carni
val. He emphasizes, for anyone interested 
in radio, that recruitment never ends. 
Everyone is welcome to come and 
join,, totlearn a(skill Jor|...get.a license.
rnc 8NNl-c.C 8N igogwg l5flac anc c5al.L e7P -1sMUC a8 &8l5 anc 8.V15l<1al85g
NEWS BRIEFS
Maintenance requests placed
Students living in resident housing all 
over campus are reporting maintenance 
complaints.
Donner and Hammerschlag Hall resi
dents are complaining about missing bath
room window screens. A-level residents in 
Donner allege that birds and insects often 
come in through the unprotected window 
openings.
Students in Scobell report that some of 
their bathrooms do not have shower fix
tures. Mr. William Blue Fol the Housing
Maintenance Office says that he is at the 
mercy of the suppliers from which he 
ordered the window screens and shower 
equipment. The problems in Donner, Ham
merschlag, and Scobell cannot be corrected 
until supplies come in.
Additionally, students who at first 
found Morewood a bit cold before the 
heat was turned on, are now complaining 
of excessive heat. Blue said that a new 
boiler was installed, and takes time to work 
properly.
Sidewalk cotfer protects in winter
Pedestrians at CMU probably noted 
slippery conditions on the sidewalks re
cently. Two weeks ago, sidewalks on TTie 
Cut were sprayed with a coat of linseed
oil.
The oil is supposed to protect the con
crete from the salt and calcium chloride 
used to melt snow in winter.
According to Physical Plant personnel, 
this method, used once every other year, 
will prevent the sidewalks from cracking 
as they did last winter. To further protect
the sidewalks, a mixture of sand, sawdust 
and cinders will be sprinkled to help melt 
the snow, rather than salt.
Also, sidewalk borders have been re
sodded. These areas were sodded last 
spring, but after a dry spell in summer, 
the sod died. The contractor had gua
ranteed his work, so he was obligated to 
redo it.
Additionally, Physical Plant is super
vising the replanting of grass on the mall. 
The area to be seeded has been roped off.
rmw Ehrri>Pb2m emT7>wb 7Pihe idehwrx 
yKYY I yKYQ ic1C85
OCTOBER 17 TOKYO STRING QUARTET 
NOVEMBER 7 THE SUK TRIO 
JANUARY 23 TASHI With DANIEL PHILLIPS 
FEBRUARY 13 ALBAN BERG QUARTET
MARCH 20 JULLIARD STRING QUARTET with JOHN GRAHAM
All concerts Mondays at 8:30 p m. in Carnegie Music Hall
SPECIAL RATE FOR STUDENTS: $7.00 for the series
Special Student Ticket Sale: Oct. 4 from 9:30 to 4 in Skibo Lobby 
Thereafter tickets available at Skibo Information Desk 
ID Cards must be shown
ST. ANDREW'S - LUTHERAN
Centre & Morewood in Shadyside 
 SunJay Liturgy at 11:00 
Holy Communion - 1st Sun. 
Trial Services - 5th Sun's.
Activity & Worship for 
Students in Parish Context

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977TARTANpage 3
????????????
Senate murmursSARC representatives attend convention
by Linda Deak
In the space of 40 minutes, the Student 
Senate allocated approximately $4000 to 
three organizations: The Student Govern
ment Corporation; Activities Board; and 
the blood drive committee, October 19.
Steve Belanich, speaking for the Finance 
Committee, announced that the committee 
had approved a $2,000 allocation to the 
Student Government Corporation. Belan
ich maintained that this money is to be 
used as capital for future student entrepreneural projects. SGC Vice President 
Don Simon represented SGC at the. meet
ing and he stated that last year an archi
tecture student asked if SGC could purch
ase a blue-printing machine. This would 
have been both a profitable venture for 
SGC and also a service for the students on 
campus, as they usually have to go down
town to get blue-printing done.
Simon commented that SGC, which is a
branch of the Student Senate, is charged 
with creating student businesses which be
come self-supporting. He feels that SGC 
has been handicapped until now because of 
a lack of capital.
. Belanich continued with his many moneterial proposals, announcing that AB is re
questing $251 for increasing salaries for 
Coffeehouse and TGIF workers. The funds 
were necessary to increase the $2/hr. wage 
to $2.30/hr. in compliance with the new 
financial aid policy. The Senate unani
mously approved the AB proposal.
AB also requested a $1,200 allocation 
for a headset system. They feel that it is 
essential for communication between the 
production staff during the six annual 
events they handle. A representative from 
AB explained that the equipment is us
ually rented from a Pittsburgh dealer at an
-85al5Uc, 85 M1Vc yH
J.B.Phillips
Four weeks ago nine representatives 
from Carnegje-Mellon went to the National 
Student Alumni Associates Convention at 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute in Blacks
burg, Virginia.
Jane Giamporcaro, Sherry Dean, Mark 
Bach, Neal Payton, Kim Kraeuter, Claire 
Nadorlik,Doug Konopka, Amy Boyle and 
Linda Schorr, all associated with CMUs 
Student Alumni Relations Council(SARC), 
made up one of the largest delegations 
attending, despite the fact that many 
other participating schools have much 
higher enrollments than Carnegie-Mellon. 
The purpose of the convention was to 
bring as many student-alumni groups 
together as possible.
Five topic sessions, scheduled through
out the convention weekend, gave partici
pants an opportunity to exchange ideas 
and information concerning problems they 
have encountered. Each session consisted 
of three panel discussions on different 
areas of interest to student alumni groups. 
SARC representatives were asked to serve 
on two of the panels.
e7P M15c9C 1,sl.c,
At a discussion centering around Job 
Placement Programs, Mark Bach explained 
the Summer Job Directory and Neal 
Payton spoke about the Career Develop
ment Program. Few other schools have 
programs similar to these but many seemed 
interested in starting such programs.
Later in the afternoon Doug Konopka, 
president of SARC, chaired a delegation of 
four SARC representatives in a discussion 
of Annual Program Planning. Sherry Dean 
discussed the Freshman Information pro
gram and SeniorBanquet;Jane Giamporcaro 
talked about Homecoming and Sorinp
Carnival. Kim Kraeuter and Claire Nadorlik 
explained how SARC handles the publicity 
for all of their programs and events. SARC 
members also picked up some ideas about 
how to improve their own committees.
iTbe 1l,C CaU,c5aC
SARC, founded in 1976, is composed 
of eight working committees, which 
concentrate on student concerns at CMU: 
Career Development, Freshman Informa
tion, Homecoming, Hospitality, Publicity, 
Senior Banquet, Speakers Bureau and the 
Summer Job Bank.
The Career Development committee, 
chaired by Bob Lutholtz, works to match
interested students with alumni who have 
experience in that students intended field. 
The purpose of these encounters is to 
familiarize the CMU student with his/her 
profession. Students with questions about 
specific careers are encouraged to try to 
answer them through this avenue.
Freshmen are probably aready familiar 
with the product of the Freshman Infor
mation committee. This committee, head
ed up by Sherry Dean, researched, col
lected and distributed information to 
freshmen during fall orientation.
Sue Case and assistant chairperson 
Jane Giamporcaro lead the Homecoming 
committee in planning several events for 
-85al5Uc, 85 M1Vc yH
Nobody paid Frank Lloyd Wright 
millions to create this.
"Architecture can mean tree houses, shantytowns, medieval 
castles, even termites' Gothic nests, as Rodofsky demon 
strated in an earlier book. Architecture Without Architects, 
based on his 1964 exhibit at New Yorks Museum of Modern 
Art. The PredHious Builders carries forward this archeo 
anthropologists maverick vision. With the aid of over 250 
photos and drawings, Rudofsky takes readers on an eye 
opening tour down seldom trodden bypaths of architectural 
history, past and present. His rediscovery of vernacular of 
nonpedigreed architecture ranges from prehistoric caves to 
modern subterranean cities in northern China, from mobile 
Balkan sleigh houses to Thoreaus cabin. He re awakens a 
sense of architectures purpose and human possibilities 
-Publishers Weekly 
$14.95
HE PRODIGIOUS BUILDERS
z W
BY BERNARD,RUDOFSKV
BACK IN STOCK! 
 CMU BOOKSTORE
?????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
DON'T JOG... RUN! *
* FOR STUDENT SENATE *
Petitions are available for the upcoming election.
LIKE HANDLING MONEY?
Be one of the prestigious 21 people responsible for appropriating over $110,000.
FOLLOW THESE INSTRUCTIONS:
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
???????????
lD
vD
3)
Obtain petition at the Skibo information desk.
Petitions must be signed by 25 full-time students of any 
college. Students signing petitions are reminded to list address 
and social security number. Students may sign as many 
petitions as there are colleges, but only sign 1 petition per 
college.
Return petitions to the senate mail box at Skibo information 
desk by November 3.
SEATS ARE AVAILABLE IN ALL COLLEGES.
For more information: call Ken Meinert 682-9455.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
M
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
"Frankly, Scarlett
"What'd he say?"
It is a sad thing when a weekend movie, shown by AB or 
SDC, both student organizations, and viewed by audiences 
almost entirely made up of studentsit is a sad thing when a 
small group of students makes it impossible for others to 
watch the movie in quiet.
This small group of students seems to find delight in 
screaming out curses, holding loud conversations among 
themselves, and insulting any other members of the audi
ence who tell them to shut upall when the movie is going 
on.
Clearly, it is unreasonable to expect mausoleum-like si
lence or even the silence found in real movie theaters: stu
dents feel theyve had a harder week than any 9-to-5 worker 
and believe theyre entitled to a greater outburst of vocal 
and physical activity than would be tolerated in the real 
world. 
But the extent to which some students disrupt campus 
movies is wrong. It has gone beyond the point of fun. Prob
ably these people who have no respect for other students 
wishes to see (and hear) a movie are the same people 
who have no respect for students  and University property. 
If their childish bid for attention during movies is, to them, 
so much fun, then it stands to reason that they adore the at
tention they get when they break windows, discharge fire 
extinguishers, and steal lounge furniture.
In junior high, there was a name for this disruptive ele
ment of students who, though always in the minority, made 
life for other students miserable. They were called the onepercenters. But that was in junior high. Who expected that 
these same stupid people would some day make it to 
college?
Season of 
the slump
Dont despair. If things seem to be going badly for you 
right now, it may just be those mid-semester slumps. The 
Counseling Center has explained it this way:
By the time mid-semester rolls around, work routines 
have become just thatroutine. Students feel that theyre 
not learning anything new anymore.
But soon after Thanksgiving break, before the end of 
the semester, morales will pick up. Students will come back 
refreshed from their vacation and anxious to get this thing 
and that thing done before the semester ends.
Teachers, too, go through a mid-semester slump. But 
after Thanksgiving, theyll also realize the semesters end 
is nearing, and theyll want to teach certain things before 
their course is over.
High points are beginnings and ends of semesters, it 
seems. Lucky for us that these times come around twice 
as often as mid-semesters.
To those students who find their mid-semester slumps 
lasting for the whole semester, we suggest they stop moping 
around and go talk to someone. Peer Help offers coun
seling by other students who have been trained in the art 
of listening, among other things. The Peer Help Center 
is a good half-way place it youve tired out you room
mates and friends by constant complaining, and if youre 
not quite up to walking into the Counseling Center.
The Counseling Center offers professional counseling 
by experienced psychologists. Most people whove had 
dealings with the Center are satisfied with the help theyve 
received.
Take advantage of the resources available to you. CMU 
prides itself for its problem-solving abilities; lets work 
on solving our own personal problems for a change.
Reflection
We d like to work the recent Lynyrd Skynyrd tragedy 
into this column, but realize its not possible. Live life 
while you can? Make sure your tank is full before starting 
a long trip?
No, its just not possible.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-ChiefBEEERNR ; .m.q ,v
Letters
The case of the missing sod 
Editor:
Being the fine example of 
public conscience that you are, 
Im sure your paper is the perfect 
forum for a discussion of the 
efficiency of CMUs Physical 
Plant. Specifically, I would like 
to single out the strange case of 
the missing sod.
During my exciting year and a 
half here. Ive noticed that strips 
adjacent to most sidewalks are 
now bare, now seeded, now sod
ded, then again bare and so forth. 
It would seem that much ex
pense has been buried in this 
cycle. Ironically, now the side
walks are being oiled to such a 
degree that students, after vaudevillesque efforts to maintain bal
ance and traction on the concrete 
surfaces, are padding their rec
ently-oiled soles on the aforesaid 
sod strips. Having no extensive 
knowledge of agronomy, I can 
only surmise that oil would either 
hasten the cycle of resodding or, 
cool heads prevailing, bring it to 
a logical conclusion.
With tuition what it is, and 
with departments requiring re
quisition forms for everything 
down to new ideas, I ask, who 
is funding this rich, green carpet? 
Perhaps they might profitby 
more fertile ideas and less fruit
less shovelling.
John W. Tribby 
Assistant Engineering & Science 
Librarian
Boycott Centrex 
Editor :
After reading the notice con
cerning the new Centrex system, 
we called Housing and asked if 
this year is the only year the in
stallation fee would be charged 
or if the phones would be dis
connected at the end of each year 
and the fee charged again the fol
lowing year. We were told that 
this is the only time the fee would 
be charged.
It is apparent that the Univer
sity is trying to save a buck at the 
expense of this years students.
Since the phone is a permanent^ 
improvement on the room, the 
University should be responsible 
for the installation. For this rea
son, we feel the Centrex system 
should be boycotted.
Dave Kinder 
and 14 other residents 
of Scobell Hail, } 
Third Floor
Unfair reporting
Editor.:
Last year I wrote a letter crit
ical of the editors of the TAR
TAN, but it was not printed. 
1 hope this letter does not meet 
with the same fate.
Your October 18th editorial 
states the purpose of the TAR
TAN. You say that the TARTAN 
should be ethical, truthful, and 
accurate. Yet at times it seems 
that you dont even know what 
these things are. An example 
of this was the subject of my unprinted letter last year. At that 
time, the issue directly prior to 
the final election for Student
4
TARTAN
389Usc YQd-a8Bc. vHJ yKYYOUsBc. Q
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Editor : 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor . 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
inc..z ilcVc9 
>.c5,1 bcc, 
w99c5 il9fc.s15 
i1U9 e1.9l5c. 
e:Cc enl9,C 
0cFL.$f k1C98t 
r8s >l55lc 
3gbg3g b1s1515
E.8,U-al85 TCClCa15aC4 
En8a8V.1Mnz ia1NN 4
Gary Wal/er, Ed Franks t>e ry
Brian Batchelder, M.k B* an. Skip Brazelton, John Fong, Greg Lebowitz, Geqrge 
Lecomte, Ken Ream, S ve Salagaller, Mark Segal
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2000 ext. 2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
TAA bh2mri bwiwb3w

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977TARTANpage 5
more Letters
Senate President, you printed 
letters very critical of Rick 
Edahl; plus Don Simon was en
dorsed for the office in your ed
itorial, all at a time when there 
was no way for any of the candi
dates to respond. This was 
grossly unfair and no newspaper 
that answers to history would_ 
do such a thing.
In reading the 10/18 issue I 
also found the article on Amy 
Boyles resignation as General 
Manager of WRCT. This article 
describes Ms. Boyles feelings about WRCT. If you have people 
who are investigative reporters,' 
why didnt you have somebody 
get the whole story instead of 
one very biased, disgruntled side 
if it. While there is some sub
stance to some of the things she 
said, most of the problem was one 
of personality conflicts and dele
gation of responsibiltiy and Ms. 
Boyles failure to do it properly. 
Most of her charges are a result 
of her frustration that things 
wouldnt work just the way she 
wanted them to.
One of the statements Ms. 
Boyle made was in reference to 
WRCTs poor image on campus. 
If this is true (and in some re
spects it is), it can be attibuted 
to articles like the one on Ms. 
Boyles resignation, which in 
essence do everything it can to 
demean the radio station. After 
all, the different media in this 
school should not feel antagonis
tic towards one another, but in
stead should work together to 
better serve the campus commun
ity, and when its all said and 
done thats the real purpose of 
the TARTAN, WRCT, or any 
other university-funded program.
Bill Goold
VJe do not know why your letter 
was not printed last year.-Ed.
Humanistic, not trivial 
Editor :
This letter is written in defense 
of the Morewood Gardens desk 
monitors and in rebuttal to Bill 
Dillons false accusations concern
ing us in the October 11 issue of 
the TARTAN.
Firstly, reporting maintenance 
requests was one of many of our 
responsibilities about which 
Dillon knows nothing and is in no 
position to criticize. When he 
was given the responsibility of 
supervising the desk workers I 
gave him a typewritten copy of 
our responsibilities to familiarize 
him with the operation of the 
desk. And using that he proceed
ed to eliminate and restructure 
the system. The trivial func
tions that were eliminated were 
the humanistic aspects of our 
work, some of which were sketch
ed in the synopsis and others of 
which were not. And, I think, 
students have expressed* this 
through their petition. Further
more, I cant recall failing to-turn 
in maintenance requests and if we 
ever did certainly Dillon was not aware of these errors. Mr. Dillon 
was not even aware that we were 
legally entitled to one hour of 
relief each work shift. When 
Dillon superseded Dean Williams 
we became administrators re
sponsible for finding our own re
placements. In addition, he was 
not aware of the one extra shift 
a week for which we also needed 
an employee. Consequently, the 
desk was left unmanned several 
times and on one occasion one of 
us worked sixteen consecutive 
hours, from four oclock in the 
afternoon to eight oclock the fol
lowing morning. Clearly, the rrtan 
knows nothing about the detailed 
operation of the desk.
Finally, Dillon pleaded with us 
at a meeting of the desk monitors 
to stay for the sake of the Uni
versity until after the return of 
the students. Yet, he can hypo
critically slander us at a later time. 
When the desk officially closed 
September sixth, following the on
slaught of entering students, Mr. 
Dillon had made no provisions 
whatsoever for the sudden change. 
It wasn't until two weeks later 
that housing was physically pre
pared to handle the desk responsi
bilities. And until then the mem
bers of housing were angrily and 
rightfully sending all distressed 
students to Dillons office.
Plainly, Dillon is in no position 
to ridicule us or use us as a scape
goat for his inadequacies and, in 
my opinion, inhumanity.
Mary Lou Emerson 
No easy answer
Editor:
I am writing in reply to the 
letters of Messrs. Lafue, Edalh, 
and Doremus criticizing President 
Cyerts views on Israel. While I 
dont necessarily agree with 
Cyerts reasoning, I take excep
tion to some of the views expres
sed in the afore-mentioned letters.
Mr. Lafue states that Israel 
never applied the UN resolution 
of Nov. 1947. First, the UN 
resolution called for a partition
ing of British-controlled Palestine 
into separtate Jewish and Arab 
states. But on the date of creation 
of those states, Egypt, Syria, Le
banon, and Trans-Jordan attacked 
Israel on all fronts. Where did 
Arab Palestine go? Trans-Jordan 
and Egypt annexed it. Where 
were the Palestinian cries for 
their homeland? Why didnt the 
Palestinians ask Trans-Jordan and 
Egypt for the land back? They 
had it from 1949-67. Why should 
Israel support a resolution both
rejected and violated by the Arab 
states who on numerous occasions 
have announced their determina
tion to push Israel into the sea?
For the next 19 years the Pal
estinians lived the squalor of 
UN-funded refugee camps. A 
drive near Jericho will show you 
the destitute conditions of life in 
a camp. Where were the Pales
tinians Arab confederates during 
those years? They were certain
ly not assimilating the refugees 
into their own* societies, or even 
easing their living conditions. The 
Arab states kept their brethren in 
the festering condidtions of the 
camps to be used as political 
pawns. The refugees have a valid 
grievance, all rightagainst the 
Arab states whicli have so recently 
declared themselves the protectors 
of Palestinian Arab rights.
Mr. Lafue decries the plight 
of the Arabs on the West Bank, 
specifically their lack of self-determination and second class citi
zenship. (Though life is better 
there than in the refugee camps.) 
The west bank was captured dur
ing a state of war, and Israel, be
cause of the attitudes of the Arab 
countries, must remain in war 
readiness until peace is reached. 
Until that time the West Bank 
Arabs cannot and should not ex
pect rights of full citizenship, 
when it was they that were open
ly in arms against Israel.
The Israelis treatment of the 
Arabs in the occupied West Bank 
should be compared not with 
Americans treatment of minorites 
but with the Allies treatment of 
civilians in occuped Germany and 
Japan during World War II. By 
these standards, the Arabs in the 
captured territories are rather well 
off.
As for forbidding Arabs from 
dwelling, opening a business, or 
seeking employment, I cant be
lieve I read that. Arabs in Israel 
do all of the above. In fact Is
rael has always allowed Arabs 
from Jordan to cross into Israel 
(via the Allenby bridge) to find 
work. I dont see Jordan recipro
cating.
What about the rights of Jews 
in Arab countries? Who stands up 
for them? They seem to have been 
forgotten in the shuffle. Actually 
there are few of them now. Be
cause they were allowed to leave 
those countries with only their 
lives.
To equate the PLO with Is
rael before Independence is ludi
crous. The activits of the Irgun 
and Stern gang were supported 
by few Palestinian Jews. Viewing 
them as representative of Jewish 
opinion and action around 1948 
would be the same as believing 
that UJS. actions and ideals are 
fairly represented by the Ku 
Klux Klan. It was the Jewish Agency who represented the Pale
stinian Jews and what was soon to 
become Israel. Its actions are above comparison to the actions 
of the PLO.
As for the worldwide support 
of the PLO, no one cared until
oil politics came along. It is a sad 
fact that money is the god that 
most countries worship.
When Arafat publicly promises, 
as he has on many occasions, that 
the PLO will drive the Jews into 
the sea, youd better believe it. 
If all the Arabs want is the pre1967 boundaries, why did they 
precipitate the 1967 war by 
blockading the gulf of Aquaba, 
mobilizing troops in the Sinai 
desert, and ejecting the UN obser
vers?
Clearly there are many sides to 
the issue. As one digs deeper in
to the problem, one begins to see 
the complexities involved. I can 
only hope, for the future of all 
parties involved, that peace will 
soon reign over the land.
Mark Fox 
Jack Mostow
ANNOUNCEMENTS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY for all 
announcements and classified ads. Per 
word rate of classified advertising: $.05.
3eneral
PAAR Announces fall victim service train
ing program. The fall volunteer training 
program to assist victims of sexual assault 
in Allegheny County has been announced 
by Pittsburgh Action Against Rape 
(PAAR). After completing the eight ses
sion training program volunteers will be 
qualified to accompany sexual assault vic
tims to hospitals, police interviews, and 
court proceedings, as wellas to provide 
crisis counseling. Volunteers staff PAAR's 
24-hour hotline, and work as advocates 
for sexual assault victims.
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape con
tinues to provide Allegheny County res
idents with a full service program for adult 
and child victims of sexual assault. These 
services include, in addtion to the 24-hour 
hotline and advocacy program, transporta
tion for victims in crisis and temporary 
shelter as an alternative to potentially 
dangerous or non-supportive home envir
onments. PAAR's program has an educa
tional component which includes public 
speakers, a monthly newsletter and a series 
of publications, all of whi0h place substan
tial emphasis on the elimination of rape.
The Victim Service Training Program is 
open to any person who wants to stampout sexual victimization in our society. 
The training program is free and begins 
on October 25 running through November 
29. For further information or to register 
for the training contact Victim Service 
Coordinator, Christine Fowley, at 682- 
0219.
Confidential Services including pregnancy
and V.D. testing, all methods of contracep
tion and counseling are available through
out western Pennsylvania without restric
tion on age or ability to pay. For referral 
to a clinic near you, call The Family Plan
ning Council of Western Pennsylvania toll 
free at (800) 242-2532
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will
feature a double billing on Friday, October 
28, 1977 of folk music and poetry. Leslie 
Smith will present original and contem
porary folk music and Dieter Weslowski, 
well-known Pittsburgh poet, will present 
poetry "Toward the lyrical through the 
humane" at THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee 
House, Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave.. Oakland, from 8PM through
12 midnight. For information, please 
call 682-6886
Women's Rugby team now forming. No
experience needed. For information, call 
,61-54p2.(_ ,
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Par
ish Charismatic Prayer Group Meets at the 
Oratory (4040 Bigelow Blvd.) every Mon
day evening at 8:15. For information or 
if you need a ride, call 682-6482 (Tom 
Berna). Everyone welcome!
Are you looking for part-time employ
ment? And you just can't find the right 
job? Rent-A-Tech can help solve some of 
your frustration. At no cost to you, we 
will help find you the right job. Come sign 
up Thursday and Friday of this week in 
the lobby of Skibo. This is a service of 
Student Corporation.
Mother Teresa: "Love Without Bound
aries" This film captures in sight and 
sound the incomparable story of Mother 
Teresa of Calcutta. In her own words she 
tells of her work with the lepers and the 
poor in the slums of Calcutta, the Pal
estinian refugees and the poverty-stricken 
of Harlem. CMU's Roman Catholic chap
laincy (the University Oratory) invites you 
to join us for this free (30 minutes) film 
and discussion on Tuesday, October 25. at
8 00 P.M: in CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39). 
For the first time locally, lawyers, 
psychiatrists, psychologists, and other 
other mental health professionals will 
assemble to explore the various issues 
and perspectives of Act 143 : the Mental 
Health Procedures Act (commitment pro
cedures) at a conference to be held Friday, 
October 14, 1977, at the Holiday Inn, 
Parkway East (Exit 7 - Wilkinsburg), from
9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Ke'ynote speaker at
a luncheon highlighting the conference 
will be Senator W. Louis Coppersmith 
(D-Cambria), who will discuss the amend
ments to Act 143, recently introduced 
(September 27, 1977) to solve some of the 
problems which evolved from the original 
act. Senator Coppersmith, the prime 
sponsor of Act 143 and the proposed am
endments, also serves as chairman of the 
State Senate Public Health and Welfare 
Committee.
Senate. Coppersmith will conduct a news 
conference on the new amendments to Act 
14o, Friday, October 14, 1977, in Suite 
1124 at the Holiday Inn, Parkway East 
(Wilkinsburg) at 10:30 A.M.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship-Ken
Smith will speak at the regular meeting 
of InterVarsity on Wed. October 26 The 
meeting will be in Skibo room 39 at 7 00 
PM and the talk will be on "Habakkuk ; 
Programmed for Invasion. All welcome.
Hallowe'en is just around the corner!
Have you thought of making your own 
mask cheaply? The Creative Recycling 
Center will offer a Mask Making Work
shop open to all ages, on Sat., Oct. 17, 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM. The cost to you 
will be only $1.50. We will supply the 
recycled material and instruction, and you 
will supply the creativity. Tfte workshop 
will be limited to forty. So please call 
early 687-0900. That is, the Creative 
Recycling Center, 4614 Liberty Ave., 
Bloomfield Phone 687 0900

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOl INCEMENTS&.CLASSBEDADS_________________
or business.
For entry forms and information, stu
dents should write to : The Editorial
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
The Allegheny County Young Black Rep
ublican Council will present its Second 
Annual Awards Dinner, October 21, 1977 
from 6.00pm. until 11 DO pm. The dinner 
will be held at Wilson's Caters, 5852 Baum 
Boulevard. The Donation will be $12.50. 
The Master of Ceremonies for this event 
will be Louis Kendrick and the guest spea
ker will be Attorney Bryd R. Brown. The 
following persons will receive awards for 
their outstanding contributions to our 
community: Mr. Tony Upshur, Judge
James MacGregor, Attorney Wendell 
Freeland, Ms. Doris Carson, Mr. Phillip 
Carter, and Attorney William Webb. 
Carnegie-Mellon University and Mr. Luther 
Sewell will receive Honorable Mention for 
their recent contributions to the Black
Community. _________
Residents of the area immediately sur
rounding the University have complained 
to the University several times recently 
that students are parking cars so that they 
obstruct residential driveways.
The University regularly asks residents 
of the neighborhood to be tolerant of Uni
versity activities which cause them incon
venience. It is important, therefore, for 
students to make every effort to insure 
that their routine activities do not cause 
inconvenience or hardship to residents of 
the area surrounding the campus.
Catholic Graduate Student -Every Thurs
day evening a group of grjjuate students 
meets at the Oratory (4040 Bigelow 
Blvd.). This week Fr. Clancy will cele
brate Mass at 8 .00 PM. Mass will be fol
lowed by a wine & cheese social. For fur
ther information, call the Oratory (681 - 
3181). Everyone Welcome!
Buggy: There will be a meeting for the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Association 
(CIA), on Monday, October 24 at 8 30 
PM in Skibo Room 11. All interested 
people are invited. New members are wel
come. Elections will be held and plans for 
1977-1978 will be discussed.
RECYCLE '77Industrial discards col
lected by the Creative Recycling Center 
have been fashioned into designs by three 
Pittsburgh craftpersons. Through a grant 
from the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, 
Lori Hornell, Jean Brenholts, and Walter 
Yeschke will present their involvement 
with these "waste materials in an exhi
bition, a slide presentation, and a work
shop.
The exhibition begins October 13 through 
November 19 (Tuesdays through Satur
days) at the Creative Recycling Center, 
Bloomfield. No charge. All are welcome. 
Slide Presentation, Thursday, October 20, 
8 00 pm at the Arts & Crafts Center, 
Fifth & Shady Aves., Pittsburgh, in the 
Commons Room.
Workshop, Saturday October 22, 10 00 
AM to 2 00 PM at the Recycling Center. 
$5.00 charge. Pre-register. For more 
information, call 687-0900.
All the spaghetti you can eat-Sunday,
November 6, from 4 30-7 00, the Society 
of Women Engineers will sponsor a spag
hetti dinner, to be held at Pi Lambda Phi 
Fraternity. Tickets are $2.50 and may be 
purchased in advance from SWE members, 
or at the door.
JOBS AVAILABLE THROUGH RENT
A-TECH! Housekeeper/Babysitter on parttime or live-in basis needed tor two child
ren. Salary is negotiable. Housecleaning 
on Monday mornings8:30-1 30 $15/day. 
Full or part-time lunch steam table and 
pantry person wanted for local restaurant. 
Hours: 10am-5pm, $2.35/hr. Free living 
quarters in exchange for housekeeping 
and babysitting. Private three rooms on 
third floor. Native French babysitter de
sired for bilingual 5 yr. old boy. Baby
sitting 9am-12 noon daily with some 
housekeeping chores. Full time babysitter 
needed. Hours are from 6-5 all day five 
days per week. Companion wanted for 
89-year-old woman to take for walks, 
shopping, and lunch. Looking for good 
conversationalist. Local industry looking 
for students on part-time basis. Week
end shifts include: Fri. night-11 ,00pm7 00am.; Sat. morning-7:00am-3:00pm, 
afternoon-3:00pm-11 OOpm, night-11 .00 
pm-7 ,00am; Sun. morning-7:00am-3 OOpm 
afternoon-3 OOpm-11 OOpm. If interested 
in any of the above, please come to the 
Student Employment OfficeRent-A-Tech 
located in Skibo, Rm. 58 during office 
hours: 10:30-2:30 Monday-Friday, 6-9
in the evenings, 1-4 on Saturdays. Or call 
682-5482. This is a student service spon
sored by Student Corporation and is free 
to all C-MU students.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1 30 to 5'-00.
A new brochure with a special intro
ductory offer for 12 self-guidance and 
career publications for undergraduate 
women has been released to colleges and 
universities by Catalyst. The booklets 
enable young women to consider fields 
that, at managerial and professional levels, 
have been traditionally male-dominated:
The series includes two self-guicrjnce 
work-books,  "Planning for Career" 
and "Launching Your Career" and 10 indepth career information,booklets, "Have 
You Considered-" government and pol
itics, industrial management, finance, eng
ineering, retail management, accounting, 
sales, restaurant management, insurance, 
and banking.
The career booklets cover the spectrum 
of positions within specific professional 
fields, educational preparation, the em
ployment outlook for the next decade and 
case histories of successful women.
Catalyst is a national nonprofit organi
zation that helps women choose, launch, 
and advance their careers. Booklets are 
available to students at $1.95 each. For 
further information, write: Catalyst, 14
East 60 Street, New York, New York 
10022.
scholarships awards prizes
New York City, September 28, 1977...
A $500.cash prize is to be awarded by the 
American Health Foundation's quarterly 
journal, PREVENTIVE MEDICINE, to the 
student author of the best original paper 
on the subject of preventive medicine. A 
runner-up prize of $200 is also being 
awarded. Winning papers will be published 
in the Journal.
The deadline for receipt of papers is 
January 31, 1978, and the contest is 
open to any student (except postdoctoral 
students) currently enrolled in undergrad
uate or graduate courses in medicine, den
tistry, public health, epidemiology, phar
macy, life sciences, nutrition, the social 
and behavioral sciences, economics, law,
Office, PREVENTIVE MEDICINE, Amer
ican Health Foundation, 1370 Avenue of 
the Americas, New York, New York 10019
clubs
PRE LAW STUDENTS-There will be an
organizational meeting of the CMU Law 
Club on October 24 at7 00 PM in Room
11 in Skibo. Anyone with an interest in 
law is urged to attend. If there is not a 
substantial response the club cannot be 
formed.
classified
Pregnant? And you didn't mean to be?
Call BIRTHRIGHT 621-1988 We care.
Hundreds of Science Fiction books and
magazines! Some records, tapes, and tape 
player. Call 687-2650.
Typing-own typewriter, in my home
(Shadyside), reasonable, efficient, accurate. 
After 6 PM. 665-9531
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458.
Earn $20.00 a week for 4 or 5 hours work.
Clean my house every week. Call Ext.2790
The entire campus community wishes
Neil Ostrosky a happy birthday. We love 
everything about you, Neil, we're glad you 
lived another year.
Very sincere postdoctoral student, Jewish,
age 28, recently moved to Pittsburgh, 
would like to meet a sincere, well-educa
ted, well-adjusted young woman with 
high moral values. Object: friendship and 
companionship, possibly leading to mar{ 
riage. Depth of personality and warmth of 
character more important than physical 
appearance. Sincere replies only, please.
If you're suspicious or shy, have a friend 
reply on your behalf. Please write to P.O.
Box 9068, Bloomfield Station, Pittsburgh,
Pa. 15224.
Earn $20 a week for 4 or 5 hours work:
Clean my house every week. Call Ext. 
2790.
Florian's Hairstyling Salon of Vienna.
Super haircutting for girls and guys.
15% Discount for college students. 1831 
Murray Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217. 
Call; 521-9900
Native Russian speaker interested in tutor
ing any student in Russian. Phone 665- 
1363, ask for Igor.
Good looking young man, 28, Haverford
graduate, good sense of humor, consid
erate, bright and recently relocated to 
Pittsburgh, interested in meeting a very 
attractive, sweet, intelligent, vivacious 
young lady 21 to 28. Send photograph, 
name, address, phone number and a 
brief self-descriptive note to Mark, P.O.
Box 1804, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219. All 
sincere replies answered.
One bedroom apartment, EdgewoodWil
kinsburg area. Close to 61 bus. $150/ 
month, includes heat. Call Mary 624-2161 
or 242-4708 evenings. >

---------------------------------------------------

OCTOBER 25, 1977/ISSUE 16 
MY FAVORlTf,OYBSf.

---------------------------------------------------

page 8TARTANOctober 25, 1977
omY Fovrt kLosS
JV "Ar"crhi teu k/af if ahnmos,yw cdhvlw'GWhm I Cem h&r<? iff O Ahmao,yw foe-,
cctober h: 2Occb X CflV.f 5ecRfrk b. O.19n7 o Wc... Vc 2l Vcu cm O 8c, mNeo9 OeNc OcOC,9
iri1l papfrx. JlnCP a aaV>+ ecng i-MUv
s9 V>|d UMy9 PM OmihCci3w9 M2x /ne
O o .O d SpOw nTlh 71ncncV A pg .
r./p ORzU9 We gGc egOU MfL TlmU enbPf&<v/
sr1Ec wc Hte ,O,gel +AiJ* /f ,
4Ke r M1Ngc Mn m >KfePAyOm
I 1TlOeet pM1Y K1mI ctob QntIHe Onm1 OM.o..-.!WfDnpEmOmP hCM 5e.BJP :z1rxe /ne.
0tOM
TARTAN FOLIO
FOLIO's next theme is....
INTIMATE CONFESSIONS 
( IF THE DORM ROOMS COULD SPEAK)
Tha HiUon
Is Cheaper
by Scott Sibley
I used to sleep in Calculus. It would happen 
every day. I'd go to class, listen for about ten 
minutes and then fall asleep. Good thing, too, 
because it gave me a chance to catch up on the 
sleep I missed by staying up all night working 
on my calculus homework.
I could have kept this up all semester except 
that one day it occurred to me; I was paying 
for this. Last August, Dad sent a heap of money 
to Warner Hall so I could try to survive in 
Pittsburgh. That money was sent so I could 
listen to this Calculus professor each and every 
day. But instead of listening, I just slept. So 
I sat down with my HP-21 and started calcul
ating: $3400 tuition, 20 hours a week, 30
weeks ... 11 cents a minute.
Eleven cents a minute! And I was sleeping 
in Science Hall 7500! Eleven cents a minute!
I learned my lesson; Now I sleep in the com
fort of my own bed -- forget Science Hall 7500!
derd>wb vHJ yKYY' hiiPw y?)7x ST3dbhrw edPbiw
I FOUO'S NEXT THEME IS
* INTIMATE
* CONFESSIONS
{ (If the dorm rooms* could speak)
J STORIES ARE DUE B\ TUESDA Y MORNING 
 NOVEMBER 1st, AND SHOULD BE LEFT AT THE, 
^ SKI BO INFORMATION DESK, IN CARE OF THE 
^ TARTAN BECOME A FOLIO WRITER BY 
^ TELLING 5,500 CMU READERS YOUR 
 INTIMATE CONFESSIONS.
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ARTDIRECTOR ANDREW EPSTEir 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANT MORY BRENNER
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS SCOTT POLLACK
SCOTT SIBLEY 
STU SEIDMAN 
NEIL BLOOMBERG 
JOHN BURGE 
BRENDA REED 
DAVID SHE WARD 
LISA AMOWITZ 
JULIE GOETZ 
BRIAN KING 
ROY McKELVEY 
CAROL JACOBSEN
COVER DESIGN BY SCOTT POLLACK
Addendum
All students should feel free to include these in their curriculum.
by Scott Sibley
The University recognizes the fact that college freshmen's S.A.T. scores have been continually 
declining. In keeping with the University's comprehensive plan, the registrar has announced the 
following new course selections for Spring, 1978:
History79-211Predicting the Past9 units
Art60-103Proper use of Round-end Scissors14 units
Psych85-005Breathing for Credit9 units
Comp Sci15-001Identification of a Punch Card9 units
Math21-010Using a Calculator for Addition11 units
Drama54-312Simultaneous Perambulation and31 units
Latex Mastication (lab fee forchewing gum)
Economics73-100Economic Analysis and contemp
orary Problems9 units
English76-457What I did this summer (writing)11 units
Design51-331Cut and paste9 units
Civil Eng.12-421Sand (prerequisite: Dirt 12-325)15 units
Philosophy79-100Comic Books and You9 units
AMS70-3221/2 Creative Bookkeeping17 units

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977TARTANpage 9
Sidewalks
by Stuart Seidman
Well it's that time of year .again, time to pick 
classes for next spring. I stopped by the lobby of 
Doherty Hall one day and picked up the course 
selection pamphlet. As usual l-flipped through it 
to the section on the Department of Architecture. 
Okay, check off D.T. II and design level II. I still 
had space left on my schedule for three classes so 
I checked out the architectural history choices. 
There it was: The History of The Egyptian Tem
ple, just what I needed to sleep through on tuesday and thursday mornings. Now time to pick an 
easy course. Not history, too much reading, english, too much writing, how about Intro to 
Photography, it had to be easy, I had already had 
it in high school. One more class to decide upon. 
This should be a design elective I decided. I 
looked at the list of available electives and there 
were the usual choices. First there was Urban 
Places, then New Town Planning, Design for the 
Handicapped was next, but the last one was new. 
It was the course that I had been waiting for 
through all my years at CMU. It was a topic that 
affected every CMU student and the department 
had gone through the trouble of hiring an expert 
in the field to teach the course. I flipped to the 
back page and in the Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday 12:30 slot filled in TECHNIQUES OF 
SIDEWALK BUILDING.
The next day I decided to find out some addi
tional information about the content of SIDE
WALK BUILDING so I wandered down to the 
depths of Porter Hall to see that all potent cham
pion of sidewalk building Bill Banks, the director 
of (B.S.) Bgilding Services. I sat down in the con
crete lounge chair and looked across the large
concrete desk at him. He began to describe what 
the course content consisted of. The first week he 
would give a lecture on the History of Sidewalk 
Building from the Greeks with their stone side
walks of the Acropolis to the use of wooden side
walks in old western towns. The following week 
we would get into the aggregate of the course: the 
invention of concrete and its implications on so
ciety. These lectures would range from concrete 
increasing the amount of leisure time of modern 
man (no need to mow a concrete yard) to the 
elimination of mud (except where the runoff col
lects). Other lectures would include the proper 
technique tearing up old sidewalks with jackhammers to th newest fad: asphalt sidewalks covered 
with tiny pebbles to keep bicycle riders off them.
Field trips during the course would include a 
visit to Forbes Avenue in Squirrel Hill to observe 
how slow construction workers could build side
walks and a visit to Three Rivers Stadium after a 
baseball game to see what happens when side
walks don't exist and the people have to walk in 
the streets blocking traffic. However the thing 
that thrilled me was the final project. Since this 
was a spring semester course we would be broken 
into groups of five students each. Each group 
would pick a section of sidewalk on the CMU 
campus to replace before Spring Carnival. In ad
dition we would reinforce our knowledge by 
building a brand new sidewalk in the location of 
our choice.
Then Mr. Banks explained the book list. It 
included THE USE OF SIDEWALKS by Dr. P. 
Destrian and SIDEWALK APPEARANCE AS 
PART OF URBAN LANDSCAPE hy I. Sore, C. 
Ment and D. Sign. The books sounoed fascinating 
until he explained that to complete the final proj
ect it would be necessary to purchase your very 
own jackhammer (available at the CMU Book 
store for $499.00-5%). Since I wouldn't be able 
to afford this outlay for a single course it was 
back to the course selection pamphlet to pick 
that last course. I thought I might take a course 
offered by GSIA. It's titled INTRO TO CREA
TIVE BOOKKEEPING and its instructor is listed 
as R. Cyert. Or else I'll take a course offered by 
the Alumni Office and SARC. It's entitled Funda
mentals of Sod Laying and it's instructor is listed 
as P. Plant.Call your father.
Hes the one you always call when you need money But when was the last time 
you called him just to say Hi? To tell him you really appreciate his help. To tell 
him to come and visit you.
Call your father tonight...Long Distance. Because if you dial the call yourself, 
station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., youll be able to talk for ten minutes 
for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. except Alaska!
Dial direct rates do not apply to person to person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number 
Dial direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

page 10TARTANOctober 25, 1977
Marie Eden Coursa
by Brenda Reed
I was met at the door by Ms. Mary Kottman 
herself. She was a well-preserved woman of fifty 
or so. Her hair had turned the regulation blue, 
and it was painstakingly laquered into the curls 
and waves of a high sea. She wore a tan pantsuit, 
the jacket open, and there; displayed in a scoopneck shell top, were the breasts she claims made 
her fortune twenty years ago.
"Coffee?" she enquired, motioning towards a 
silver pot.
Balancing a plate on my knees, cookies in my 
left hand and a china cup of expresso in my right, 
I began the interview, "Ms. Kottman, you are be
coming quite a name on the daytime television 
circuit. You have been seen on the screen in five 
cities, and had a small segment on 60 Minutes. 
You have fan clubs in towns in twenty states, and 
there is a report that you will soon head a small 
religious organization. What do you attribute all 
this to?"
Ms. Kottman gestured dramatically to a por
trait over the fireplace, "I owe it all to Mark!"
If you are a woman, you were once a small 
girl, and no doubt saw many fashion magazines 
on the coffeetable where your mother kept the 
dried flower arrangement. In the back of these 
magazines were ads that you might have looked at 
then, and in adolesence, poured over.
These ads were packed with copy of the very 
smallest type. There was a picture of a smiling 
face hovering over a large, half-uncovered pair of 
breasts. The face belonged to a girl who told her
story in the ad. "I was always embarassed by my 
flat chest. The boys used to call me embarassing 
nicknames and I was ashamed to undress for 
gym." A friendly interviewer in bold type came in 
here, "And how, Marsha, did you hear about 
Mark Eden?" "I was reading a magazine, and saw 
an ad. I'd tried everything." the girl responds in 
light type, "I had almost given up when I decided 
what-the-heck? and sent away for the Mark Eden 
course. It was fabulous! In just two short weeks, 
I had gained a full five inches." The interviewer 
enquires, "And do you see any difference in your 
date-life now that you are a Mark Eden grad
uate?" "Oh, my date-life!" the girl exclaims, 
"Yes, there is quite a difference in my date-life,
I have quite an active date-life, whereas before, I 
had no date-life. Now I date constantly, I date 
three times a night, and could date more if I chose 
to date more. However, I have accepted a pro
posal of marriage from a high-income lawyer, 
and after we are lawfully wed in matrimony, I 
don't think I will need to date/
Yes, flat-chested girls, pouring over the maga
zines, Mark Eden will give you the bust of your 
dreams, and perhaps the hapiness found in an
other Eden. (Did you think the name was gen
uine?) For this article, I had read the back pages 
of every woman's magazine printed in the last 
five years. I had seen ads for Slim-n-Trim, Beauty 
Bust of Paris, Treasure Chest, Steam Away, and 
Build Rite. I had searched out the Eden ads in 
all their variety. I had read until my eyes burned,
thumbing through medical books in libraries to 
see, "BREAST; either of two milk secreting 
glands..." I had scanned fashion magazines, an
alyzed the covers of "Cosmo," and all to have a 
thorough background as I met Ms. Kottman, 
balanced her plate and ate her cookies.
"Yes, I owe it all to Mark," she continued, 
"without his course, I could not have won the 
love of my husband, written my book, or entered 
into the field of morals."
I wondered if she meant she had been a whore, 
but asked instead, "How did Mark Eden help you 
to win Mr. Kottman's love?"
Ms. Kottman put down her coffee, and seized 
her breasts in her hands, "He gave me these!
"Pardon?"
"At the age of thirty five, I had risen to the top 
of my profession of waitressing. I worked at the 
U.N., was hired for all the big dinners, and could 
serve nine courses without dropping a spoon." 
here Ms. K. unloosed her hands, and had a cookie, 
"But my life was empty. My cat and portable TV 
no longer filled my emotional needs. I wanted 
marriage. I tried going out with different men, 
but all of them wanted full-breasted women; and 
I just didn't measure up. I tried being cute; I 
made Valentines with pictures from Playboy, and 
little poems like, 'Roses are red/Violets are blue/ 
If I could/l would grow these for you/ None of 
them ever saw the joke.
"But I was lucky. My dear friend, Louanne, 
came in one day with the most amazing full-chest 
development that I had ever seen. Her figure was
IBM NEEDS OUTSTANDING PEOPLE
And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing, Engineering or Computer Science. We will be interviewing at
Carnegie^Mellon University on November 1, 1977.
To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: I.C. Pfeiffer,College Relations Manager,IBM Corporation,One IBM Plaza,Chicago, Illinois 60611.
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977T ART ANpage 11
striking. She said it wasn't surgery, it was a course 
she'd taken. I asked her why? and she gave it to 
me straight. "Honey," she said, "At our age, 
we're getting up there, and it pays to do some
thing to keep their eyes away from the crows' 
feet. See my drift?" Well, that did it. I went right 
out, bought a Mark Eden course and got to work.
I was at it all day, and achieved my present meas
urement of fifty two and one half inchesa gain 
of 20 inches in 7 hours. I had to serve a big for
mal dinner that night, and all through it I was 
bending over in my uniform, which was now too 
tight. Suddenly, between the fruit and the first 
dessert, Mr. Kottman fell to his knees and pro
posed. I had never seen him before, but he told 
me he was in oil, so we got married and lived 
happily ever after.
Here, Ms. Kottman paused reflectively, "It 
was three years afterwards that I wrote my book; 
"How Mark Eden Changed My Life And Why. I 
am an active person, I like to do things."
"You decided to spread his message?" I asked,
taking quick notes.
"Yes. I figured that if Mr. E. could revolution
ize my life, he could make everyone happy. I 
mena, if all the chest-men had big-chested women 
there would be no war, right?"
"Well, maybe," I wanted a new subject, "Have 
you met Mr. Eden?"
Ms. Kottman gave a perfect half-circle smile, 
"Yes, I did. It was after my book and before the 
formation of Better Utilization of Social Tran
scripts. Mr. Eden is a lovely gentleman, with a 
pretty good chest for a man."
"Better Utilization of Social Transcripts?" I 
asked and wrote.
"BUST," she replied, "It's my newest venture. 
We at BUST teach a conglomerate of the world's 
best religions in conjunction with Mark Eden 
method seminars."
"What does Mark Eden have to do with 
religion?"
"Oh, alot! The bust is dicussed in many relig
ious writings. We have culled the best of each and
teach them in the classes. As it says in the Bible,
I believe, "And the men, they shall be flat chested 
and the women, their chests shall protrude, and 
that is how ye shall tell them apart in most social 
situations."
It was definitely time for some pictures. I got 
my camera and took several; Ms. Kottman beside 
her electric piano, with her pet pug dogs, and fin
ally, holding a framed photgraph of her family.
I began to pack up my photographic equip
ment.
"Well, honey," I heard her say, "Are you mar
ried? Boyfriend?"
"Not at the moment", I replied.
There was an embarassed silence. Then she said 
"Well, what do you do?"
"I have an apartment," I answered, and after a 
pause, "I write for this magazine."
"Oh, " there was another embarassed silence.
"Wait a minute, honey!" Ms. Kottman sud
denly cried.
She disappeared into the kitchen and came 
back holding a long bar. At either end was a hand 
grip and in the center was a rubber accordianpleated section.
"A beauty bust developer for you from me and 
Mark," she said, "Start working right away. It 
won't be long before you'll be like me with the 
crows' feet."
I thanked her and left. Ms. K. stood in the 
doorway and waved good-bye.
I started down the street towards the busstop. The beauty bust thing was in my hand. I 
gave it a quick squeeze, and then carefully 
checked my chestno difference. I thought of 
all the girls all over the country developing their 
chests for love, and all the guys they could meet.
I decided the developer would make a good 
plant hanger. I thought of my favorite philos
opher's belief that the penis envy theory re
sulted from breast envy. I thought maybe I 
would buy a scoop-neck shell top. I threw the 
developer in the bushes and headed for the 
bus.
An Intramural Sport
As a prospective student of CMU, I invarably received a large amount of information 
pertaining to CMU and its options. I was 
pleased to note that CMU had a large offering 
of intramural sports, and that participation was 
generally recommended and condoned by the 
faculty and administration for purposes of 
relaxation.
Upon arriving here however, I was appalled 
to find that CMU was severely diffident in having 
America's number one indoor sport as an intra
mural option. From information that I have 
gathered, it seems there is a limited participation 
on the Varsity level, with a small fraction of 
students attempting to pursue it on a profes
sional level. I, however, cannot find the time for 
sufficient practice required, and I am not inter
ested in Professionalism in that area of athletics.
I was soon to learn that the lack of partici
pation in our number one sport is due to lack 
of enthusiasm. Student enthusiasm, especially 
in the colleges of CIT/M IS seems to be directed 
toward academics. Athletic endeavors are limited 
to wrestling with computers, and physical inter
action (such as eating) of textbooks. Students 
are known to develop leg cramps from extended
desk sitting, which reduces flexibility and makes 
any form of athletics painful.
I should mention that I am a student of CIT/ 
MIS and I am well aware of the deficiencies in 
this department but, not all students of CIT/MIS 
are athletically stymied; we do have one or two 
football players. In fact, there's this one guy 
in my computing class . ..
Well, anyway, It.seems that due the large 
amount of free time that H&SS and Fine Arts 
students are blessed with, they seem to have 
more active participation in America's number 
one. Their choice of players, however, is not 
always consistent, being that there seems to 
be a misconception as to the male-female rules 
of the game.
Another obvious problem is the element of 
competition. It just doesn't exist like it did in 
high school! ! The only hint of competition lies 
in occasional rivalry between roommates, either 
by attempting to "outdo" another, or severely 
inhibiting practice time by disturbances (such 
as entering unexpectedly).
In any case 1 am attempting to emphasize 
the need for relaxation in athletics. This is a 
competive school, and we njjed time to enjoy 
ourselves. What better way than physical exer
tion and consequently, dreamless sleep.
Saf/y Student

---------------------------------------------------

page 12TARTANOctober 25, 1977
First Course
by Mory Brenner
The base is always green,
On the best that I have seen,
It's so good though it sounds mean. 
ANTIPASTO
You can hear our hungry glees,
As we finally hit the cheese,
And we're downing those chick peas. 
ANTIPASTO
Anchovies are the fish,
That really make the dish,
They're so salty and delish. 
ANTIPASTO
Spices from Barbados,
And the slices of tomatos.
Be too full to eat potatos. 
ANTIPASTO
Little bits of Pepperoni,
With the pieces of bologna,
And of course the cantaloni. 
ANITPASTO
Topped with vinegar and oil,
Oh God, how those mamas toil, 
to make the course that's truly royal 
ANTIPASTO
Py9mtes
by Fred Lapo
I lit a cigarette and started puffing wildly. I 
took in a lungful of the cool smoke and began to 
cough my entire plumbing system up through my 
nose. I guess it was because I don't smoke. But 
that is a small scenario of my entire life; getting 
into trouble without realizing it. Let's see. . . . 
when did it all start?
In english lit we had to write a creative paper 
on the subject of "My Favorite Class". Naturally, 
I wrote with my usual enthusiasm about the 
aborigines of New Guinea but to my consterna
tion, I received the paper back scrawled with 
"Nein, Nein, Nein!" and several Nazi swatiskas. 
I just knew that it had to be my teacher,
Miss------,who suffered from some Kantian
complex over her 4'7" height. Sure life is rough 
when you're mistaken for a pothole on the 
Parkway East but I felt little sympathy for
Miss------. My grade was more important than her
puny problems.
Where was I.... oh yeah. There I was lying dead 
in bed when the phone came to life. I opened my 
eyes and looked around the dorm room and saw 
on the rug an empty bottle of gin, 3 empty 
glasses, and a pair of torn nylons. My throbbing 
head ached as I tried to figure out what had gone 
on the night before. The last thing I remember 
was buying a box of chocolate mint Girl Scout 
cookies. So, I bounded out of bed with the 
enthusiasm of a dumb highschool cheerleader to 
answer the smirking telephone.
"Casuello," It was the head of the English 
Department, "This is the head of the English
Department, Professor-------I'm initiating this
communique in regard to your melee with
Miss------concerning the amelioration of a grade
on your cogitation nomme "My Favorite Class"."
Not knowing Yiddish, I replied, "bon appetit" 
demonstrating my superior knowledge of French.
He asked me how I could compare my peurile 
talents and obfuscated, banal insights with the 
infinite arcanum of wisdom and literary opinions 
of someone of his own staff. Although flattered 
by his kind words, I insisted that I deserved a 
better grade than a Z. ! pointed out the high
better grade than a Z. I pointed out the high 
points of my New Guinea pygmie paper. I had the 
social science issue in my paper. I had talked 
about how the cute little cannibals lived in social 
harmony enjoying nature and their fellow man. I 
had even touched upon philosophy mentioning 
Randy Newman's thesis on "Short People". But
Prof------insisted that I had missed the thrust of
the entire theme and deserved to be shafted. I 
tried to tell him what an obvious mistake it was 
to misinterpret the theme. After all, all the other 
students in my class wrote about the wrong sub
ject but had not been penalized. Needless to say, 
we could not see eye to eye over the phone. Be
sides, like Miss------, he was a short balding
fellow.
I planned vengeance and so I speak to you out 
there. I ask your judgment and your help. To
gether we can beat the system's hypocritical 
standards. Together we can right this wrong. And 
remember even though this may be a little thing, 
(worth 60.53% of my grade) remember that 
"even pygmies started small."
Rocky& 
GuUwink
by David Sheward
Everyone was on time. For some reason every
one was always on time to this course, Political 
Satire 101. Perhaps it was the stimulating conver
sation that occurred before, during and after the 
class. Perhaps it was the quick wit and contagious 
charm of the Professor. Perhaps it was the fascin
ating subject matter that we studied. For what
ever reason, everyone was on time. Today some 
came a few minutes early. All were eagerly awaiting the entrance of the professor to the 
crowded classroom. Today we were going to dis
cuss the most fascinating and absorbing of all 
political satires. We had previously studied Jona
than Swift's "Gulliver's Travels" and "A Modest 
Proposal," George Orwell's "1984," the political 
cartoon of Herblock, even Al Capp's 'Til Abner." 
But today's subject made all the others seem pale 
by comparison. Today we were going to discuss 
the political satire in the Rocky and Bullwinkle 
cartoon series.
Amid the expectant and eager chatter of the 
students, the professor entered. A hush immed
iately fell over the scholarly crowd as the instruc
tor quietly placed his briefcase on his desk and
turned to address his students.
"Today," he said, "We will view four hours of 
Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons." He was inter
rupted by wild applause. After it died down he 
continued, "We will see in its entirety the first 
series of Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons in which 
Bullwinkle makes a rocket fuel out of his Grandmother Moose's old Chocolate fudgepan downies 
recipe. He and Rocky are beset by the govern
ment to develop the fuel before the Russians dis
cover it. Of course they are spied on by those two 
nefarious villians, Boris Badenov and his beautiful 
accomplice Natasha Fatale. We will also meet 
Captain Peter "Worngway" Peachfuzz, the Two 
Moonmen Cloyd and Gidney and Boris' boss from
Pottsylvania Fearless Leader." He was again inter
rupted by an ovation and continued when there 
was silence. "After the film we will analyze the 
treatment of the Cold War, Bui twinkle's attitude 
towards his country, and the attacks on the mili
tary and Congress. OK, roll it."
The room went dark and the screen filled with 
a picture of our hero, Rocky the Flying Squirrel 
and his friend Bullwinkle the Moose. For the next 
four hours we sat enraptured watching Rocky and 
Bullwinkle dash from one perilous adventure tor 
another, escaping from the evil Boris and Natasha.
After the film we discussed political signifi
cance of Boris Badenov. We asked who is Boris 
the man? Is he more than a cartoon character? 
And what about his relationship with Natasha? 
Do they love each other? Are they working to
gether on purpose? We got into the relationship 
of Rocky and Bullwinkle. Do they represent 
brotherhood because they get along in spite of 
the fact that they come from different parts of 
the animal kingdom? Or are they just a pair of 
kinky animal perverts? Why are they the only 
non-humans in the series?

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977-TARTAN-page 13
The Winner
FOLIO PROUDLY ANNOUNCES THE WINNER 
OF THE "GIVE US A BETTER CAPTION 
CONTEST". The winner is John Burge.
His entries for the "What's that thing doing on 
top of Warner Hall if it's not a piano?" competittion:
1. Got straight A's in everything but swimming.
2. I hear the Architect's coming to commence
ment.
3. We'd better get it off before Cyert arrives.
4. Would you buy a used orange peel from this 
man?
5. Tudai I ar an injuneer.
6. Tudai I ar uh Tratan prufereeda.
7. If H.Q. Bovik could do it, so could I.
8. Don't be silly, it's just an honorary degree.
9. Didn't you notice the banana on Fine Arts?
10. You should see the kilt around Skibo!
11. It's good for the corporate image.
12. CMU means Business (this slogan is Copy
right me 1977).
13. I suppose it's to protect the hair conditioner.
14. At CMU, being a building is an advantage.
15. I thought Halloween was NEXT weekend.
His one dollar prize is now in the mail.
tfywuEu
(teTvWTiNC
ll
..4,
3itn your fuure
I HEAUD -r-MAr THEY KIEX 
TTJN&A cap AND (row RLF 
WAKNR $rkkbF DIDMT BE
LIEVE it. *
T.THC CrOWAj I 5IMG TMOKSltfr
r
THOUGHT TW 
er25.19 15 buPft)i0 TO OH 
TUB Rl6firSiG*
fWE ARE Dfcb 
F<?R FUAMJV IMGIFro 
XUASt SU&HIT TV 
TAZtAH t>TAFFR#
,Rum rurvze aoa
BOOT*. tilLl ZE 
1Mnn.74 s s7' 
UWAR)
I
......
'our vhs one. ~rj0k) Mo oui 
VU ooTtcB WAmZMlt is (*VG 
SALO*
smafrvwxn***
TECHNOLOGY 
AND POLICY 
PROGRAM 
AT 
MIT
The Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology is now offering a 
Master of Science Program in 
Technology and Policy. This 
program is designed for persons 
wanting to participate in leading 
the development, use and control 
of technology and its products. 
Students apply systems ap
proaches to such problems as the 
control of automotive emissions, 
energy conservation policy, the 
use of automation in manufac
turing, and the life-cycle design of 
goods. The program may be par
ticularly appropriate for 
professionals with practical ex
perience . For information write 
to
Prof. Richard de Neufville
School of Engineering 
Room 1-138, MIT 
Cambridge, Mass. 02139
WHAT DOES ARMY ROTC 
MEAN TO YOU?
1. Leadership Training
2. Management Training
3. Responsibility
4. Challenge
5. Adventure
If you are looking for job or career options come and 
see us.
The next Adventure Day will be
ORIENTATION
d-a8Bc. vKJ yKYY
The bus will leave from in front of Margaret Morrison at 
8:00 AM.
You don't know anything about Orienteering. Don't let 
stop you. There will be people from the US Orienteering 
Federation to teach you. This event is open to everyone.
For more information call: MSG Adderly
578-2204
or
Stop by MM Rm B-5
ARMY ROTC
C-MU FOOD SERVICE CROSSWORD
ohOOwbi dS eI7P ebdiiodb edOrwir
1*t Kevin Cline
2nd Keith Hordatt
3rd Tom Binnie 
4th Michael Alston 
5th Lisa Cohen
$20.00 Book of Food Service Coupons 
$10.00 Book of Food Service Coupons 
Pizza
Pizza
Pizza
PRIZE WINNERS CAN PICK UP PRIZES 
IN ROOM 62 DURING OFFICE HOURS.

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANOctober 25, 1977
1977 BENJAMIN F. FAIRLESS MEMORIAL LECTURES
WHERRETT ROOM, 5:30 P.M.
NOVEMBER 8, 9, 10
SPEAKER: MONROE E. SPAGHT
DIRECTOR, ROYAL DUTCH-SHELL COMPANIES
"THE MULTINATIONAL CORPORATION: 
ITS MANNERS, METHODS AND MYTHS"

LECTURE TOPICS:
BACKINST O!VCMBCR 8: "MNOOCRK" 
WCIOCKINST O!VCMBCR 9: "MCBH!IK" 
BHARKINST O!VCMBCR 10: "MSBHK"
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK.
FRIDAY, NOV. 11th
TWO SHOWS: 7:30 P.M. & 10:30 P.M.
SKI BO BALLROOM
Tickets: $3.00 with I.D.
$5.00 general public
Tf1l91B9c 1a anc iulB8 h5N8.s1al85 cCu 15, Elaa rl-uca dNNl-cg
AB CONCERTS PRESENTS
THE JOHN MAYALL BAND
with special guests
THE JAMES COTTON BAND

---------------------------------------------------

SARC representatives explain group's functions
-85al5Uc, N.8s M1Vc 6
the Homecoming weekend. During this 
weekend students involved in these pro
grams are able to meet with alumni from
all over the country to hear about the 
good old days and to answer questions 
about the way things are today.
The Hospitality committee arranges
Senate to run contest next month
-85al5Uc, N.8s M1Vc 6
annual cost of $450. Senate approved ABs 
proposal for the money to pruchase the 5 
headsets and accompanying equipment.
Blood donations in Central Blood 
Banks drive November 15, 16 could make 
one dorm area or fraternity $150 richer! 
Senated voted to appropriate $300 to the 
blood drive committee, with $150 going to 
the best-represented frat, and $150 desig
nated to the dorm area with the greatest
to t al number of residents.
During the course of the committee re
ports, Viv Kerstein asked what has been 
done by the Academic Affairs Committee 
concerning the non-e..i:;ng Student Ad
visory Committees of many departments. 
Chairman Jim Gasbarro plans to put the 
SAC proposal on the agenda of the Faculty 
Senate meeting.
student-alumni-faculty dinners and spon
sors a program when; a CMU student 
can spend holidays with alumni hosts. The 
Senior Banquet is also arranged and co
ordinated by a SARC committee.
The Speakers Bureau committee,chaired 
by Neal Payton, has a unique function. 
Students on this committee visit CMU 
Alumni Clubs (known as Clans) all over the 
country. Students have a chance to visit 
alumni in different cities and the alumni 
can talk with the students about life on 
campus today.
The Summer Job Bank committee
published a Summer Job Directory last 
year and mailed it to corporations with 
summer programs. The Directory con
tained the resumes of students interested in 
Slimmer jobs. This year the committee is 
considering a directory of companies for 
students. If published it would include 
information such as how many people they 
usually hire, what degrees they are looking 
for, and who to write to in the company. 
Mark Bach, chairperson of this committee, 
is interested in hearing new ideas and 
welcomes any suggestions students may 
have.
McGEORGE SCHOOL OF LAW 
UNIVERSITY OF THE PACIFIC
Accredited: American Bar Association 
Member  Association of 
American Law Schools
KNCRNMCOB!T CNLIF!ROIN
May 1, 1978 is application deadline 
for first year students seeking 
juris Doctor degree in 3-year Day 
and 4-year Evening Program beginning 
in September 1978.
Pre-Law Discussion
FOR PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS
DATE:
Friday, October 28, 1977
TIME:
1:00pm-3:00pm
PLACE:
Room 19 Warner Hall
FOR APPOINTMENT 
OR FURTHER INFORMATION
We have a few openings in the vineyard. Come labor with us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we promise is opportunity to help others and a quiet pride in your work. A few peope will even thank you. One will be eternally grateful. His name is God.
If interested in studying for the Catholic PriesthoodT contact: Father !'BooleT 
Pittsburgh IioceseT 111 Blvd. of the NlliesT 15222 or call 412-256-3070.
THE BEST MUSICALS
From Show Boat to A Chorus Line: 
Broadway, Off-Broadway, London
By Arthur Jackson
Overture, curtains. lights tte eicitement ol the musical 
theatre ts more powerful than fit' and here it > mat 
velous |uide to every outstandmf musical to ham hit the 
boards since the nineteenth century1 Wonderful classics 
like Show Boot. Porgy and B*<> Ohlohomo I 
Thraapanny Optra, and wonderful performers are 
spotli|hted in the text and illustrations befinninf with a 
lively history of the musical from the revue spectaculars to 
"book" musicals Hundreds of shows and performers are 
discussed and placed in a historical conteit from the early 
classics up to the new wave started by W**' S/d* 
Story + shows like Ja%u% Christ Suparttor Hair. A 
Chorus Una, My Fair Lady. Fiddler on tha oof. 
and Godspall Here are the well loved stale personalities 
and performers |ian|S like Georfe M Cohan the father of 
the American musical Flo Ziffetd the Shuberts and many 
others Illustrated with ver 150 |or|eous Mack and white 
photofraphs and 24 full color this irresistible book even has 
a musical calendar of the bi| events a Who's Who of show 
and film music a list of all the peat sonp and a 
lilmotraphy ol all the real musicals made in Hollywood174 illustrations, 24 fuH color,
14.99
CMU BOOKSTORE
HEAVY DATE
Appointment With The Future 
For Engineering Grads
Engineering opportunities exist at Hughes Aircraft Com
pany, Culver City, California, in its Radar Systems and 
Electro-Optical & Data Systems Groups, for graduates with 
the following degrees:
 BS in EE. Comp Sci, ME
 MS in EE, Comp Sci. ME
The positions involve the development of advanced radar 
and avionic systems, electro-optic and space sensor 
systems, laser systems, and airborne computers and soft
ware. Opportunities are available in the following 
specialized areas:
Analog & Digital Circuit Design 
Hybrid Circuit Design 
Systems Analysis 
Systems Enginnering 
Signature Technology 
Recognition
Image & Information Processing 
Computer Architecture 
Scientific Programming 
E. O. Sensor Design 
Optical Systems Design 
Signal Processing Circuit Design 
Structural Dynamic Analysis 
Mechanical Product Design 
Servo Design
Positions are also available for BS graduates on our 
Masters Fellowship Work-Study and our Engineering 
Rotation Programs. For details, interested graduates are 
requested to schedule interview appointments with our 
recruiter. Your placement office will schedule you for our 
recruiting visit on November 10, 1977.
HUGHES
i-------------------------------------------------------------1
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY
U. S. Citizenship required  Equal opportunity M/F/HC employer

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENTNUREYEV, VALENTINO AND RUSSEU
show is between Valentino and another
A legend in his own time, May alls mu
sical stylistic innovations have run full 
circle; from blues to jazz to rock and roll. 
And now, with 26 albums to his credit, 
Mayall once again has come up with yet 
another remarkable band. Hes struck 
gold with guitarist James Quill Smith, 
whose fiery virtuosity on his instrument 
had, until now, been buried within the 
backing bands of Three Dog Night, Dr. 
John, Dobie Gray, and Roger McGuinn.
Drummer Soko Richardson played with 
Ike and Tina Turner for 10 years before 
joining Mayall for several albums and tours 
in 1974. With this new band, he makes a 
welcome and powerful return.
The edge to the rhythm section is con
tributed by bass guitarist Steve Thompson 
who, at 18, made his debut on Mayalls
album Blues From Laurel Canyon and was 
later the cornerstone of the historic Turn
ing Point band of the late 60s. After 
forming Stone The Crows and later work
ing with Alvin Lee, Steve this year happily 
responded to Johns call.
So a new band had been born. Whats 
followed is becoming history. Its included 
an exhausting but wildly enthusiastic 
stream of one-nighters over a period of 
five months, covering 13 countries inclu
ding the United States. And its led to a 
string of glowing reviews from the press,
near hysteria from the raving, dancing 
audiences, and the completion ot a new 
album on ABC Records.
This band is stressing surprises, as you 
can hear on A Hard Core Package. The al
bum is basically * rock n roll withof 
course-the blues flavor everyone anxiously 
anticipates from John Mayall. With it, the 
new band is ready to reach a wider audi
ence, a spectrum of listeners to match 
their sophisticatedly eclectic yet lowdown 
vigor.
John Mayall will perform on the same 
bill as the James Cotton Band at the AB 
Concert on Friday, November 11. Shows 
are at 7:30 and 10:30 in the Skibo Ball
room. Tickets are $3.00 with ID and 
$5.00 without and are available at the 
.Skibo Information Desk.
Editors Note:
This is part one of a two part article. 
The second part will appear in the Novem
ber 1 issue of the Tartan and will center 
around James Cotton.
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
AB WILL PRESENT JOHN MAYALL
In the early 1960s, John Mayallre
cognized world-wide as the leader of the 
British blues revivalwas almost singlehandedly responsible for introducing 
countless now-famous names to the rock 
world. Among them; Eric Clapton and 
Jack Bruce of Cream, John McVie and 
Mick Fleetwood of Fleetwood Mac, and 
Mick Taylor of the Rolling Stones.
A film review 
Film: Valentino 
Director: Ken Russell
by Joan Livitski
Opening with footage simulating a news 
reel of Valentinos funeral, not only sets 
the time period, but also shows the angle 
the director, Ken Russell, has decided to 
use. The wrong one. Instead of using his 
media to its fullest advantage, Mr. Russell 
tries to revert back to the 20s style of film 
making. This fails due to the fact that 
Valentino ends up having neither the charm 
of that by-gone era nor the substance of a 
modem film.
man.
Theres more justification for this than 
just Valentinos suggested homosexuality. 
Considering the various female characters it 
is no wonder Nureyev would do better 
without them. Michelle Phillips, Natacha, ^ 
would do better to stay with music; 
Leslie Caron should grow up and realize 
she cant play ingenues like Gigi; and 
Carol Kane could straighten her hair, but 
it really wouldnt matter.
The audience is given a feel for the 
times. Costumes, architecture and art 
are all amply and well depicted, but I 
was led to believe this was to be a movie 
about Rudolph Valentino and not Art
work of the 20s. Yet anyone interested 
in Art Deco would greatly appreciate this 
flick.
At age 44, Mayall is a poll-winning 
harmonica player without rival. But his 
music wouldnt be complete without his 
distincitve keyboard and guitar-work. Add 
to this his unique vocal command of the 
blues, more than 250 original recorded 
songs, self-designed album covers, and 
efforts as a producer on most of his re
cords, and you have a man with few 
equals. Not only does Mayall have the 
energy of a person half his age, but he 
freely demonstrates that, after 15 years in 
the business, blues power is like spare 
change in his back pocket.
The only change for the audience from 
seeing an actual silent film from the 20s 
and Valentino is the use of color and sound, 
the latter of which is shown to be no major 
advancement in film-making. All the melo
drama is left in. The actors exaggerate their 
acting, emotions, etc. without worrying 
about being realistic.
The first glimpse one gets of Valentino
is as a corpse, and he pretty much stays
one throughout with the exception of his - , t u . r .u c Valentino, just doesn t get enough chancesdancing. Here we get one of the few saving_________________________f__________________
Its a shame the director didnt have the 
same idea. Not only did Valentino lead an 
interesting life, but it was also a tragic 
one leaving many openings for a good dra1 
matic script. Instead, a second rate vaudevillian slapstick takes its place.
I would have thought Valentino had 
suffered enough while he lived. Why make 
him go through it all again, let alone us? 
Valentino is refered to as the eighth 
wonder of the world, but the real wonder 
The one spellbinding dance routine in the js the reason for the making of this film.

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977TARTANpage 17
camPus
 ers M here 0" N 
/Ua*q$.JJcfo
'SZ*s$**Mm .,**
w*c
WRRCTRRRel
Operai es ocement 0<ce
Q6NePfrU!,-'-'
The story of two women whose friendship suddenly became a matter of life and death*
Based on a true story
20th CENTURY-FOX Presents
A RICHARD ROIH Presenten ol A FRED ZINNEMANN Film
JANE FONDA VANESSA REDGRAVE 
---------------JULIA----------------
also
StarringJASON R0BARD5 HAL HOLBROOK 
ROSEMARY MURPHY ^ MAXIMILIAN SCHELL
as
Johann
Directed by Produced by Screenplay by Based upon the story by
III
Music byGEORGES DELERUE
PG PARENTALGUOANCE SUGGESTED SS>PRINTS BY DeLUXE1977 20th Century-Fox
OPENS THISWEEK AT
SQUIRREL HILL THEATRE
PITTSBURGH DANCE ALLOY TO OPEN
by Julie Sutton
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy Pittsburghs 
rising modern dance repertory company, 
will present their first major concert of the 
) 1977-78 season. They are a dynamic, 
democratic synthesis of dancers with di
verse dance backgrounds. Their various 
choreographic styles produce a wide array 
of dance forms which allow company 
members to display their fortes that ap
peal to a broad audience.
The program for their upcoming concert 
will feature Partita, a classical modern 
dance by Doris Humphrey (a forerunner of 
modern choreography); Getting a Handel 
on Bach, a duet of subtle Baroque play
fulness choreographed by Susan Gillis, and 
Chairisma, a whimsical folly for three
dancers and three chairs, also by Susan 
Gillis. Two pieces by Rebecca Rice, an 
Alloy member, will be presented; Stringed 
Orb, a solo piece done in silence which 
experiments with space and rhythmic 
movement; and Ricochet, a group piece 
depicting the abstract portrayal of dance 
as ritual, performed to the music of Tan
gerine Dream.
Community involvement is a major goal 
of the Pittsburgh Dance Alloy. Through 
performance they attempt to develop audi
ence appreciation of modern dance. They 
provide open classes for the community in 
modern dance technique, improvisation, 
and composition for beginning through ad
vanced students. The Alloy also acts as a 
continuing resource for dance education, 
demonstration, and professional perform
ance in the Pittsburgh area.
The Alloy will perform Friday, October 
28th and Saturday, October 29th, at the 
Edward Eddy Theatre located on the Chat
ham College Campus. The performances 
begin at 8:00 PM. Admission is three dol
lars and two dollars with student identifi
cation. Tickets may be purchased at the 
door, at the University of Pittsburgh Stu
dent Union ticket office (624-5882), and 
at 104 Trees Hall (624-4396).
.then call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127 Monday 5-6pm
^ * V * % % % % 4.-. . - * %, V* * * * ft. I % V % *V_V'V JfOlAA ,-vUr4 -vT'TV -Cm % * % % %<* *  ^ v * ' '-w * % % < *%  -C % % % * v -m % % * -*vv -m% *.? -'

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
MUSIC
The Pittsburgh Symphony, together 
with guest artists Ingrid Bjoner and Spas 
Wenkoff, will perform music from Richard 
Wagners beloved music drama Tristan 
and Isolde in concerts in Heinz Hall on 
Thursday, November 3 at 8 p.m., Friday, 
November 4 at 8:30 p.m. and Sunday af
ternoon, November 6 at 2:30 p.m. Atten
dance at Pittsburgh Symphony concerts is 
< by subscription only, but tickets are some
times turned back to the box office for re
assignment. For information, phone 
281-5000.
For the 16th year the City of Pittsburgh 
is sponsoring a number of free Pittsburgh 
Symphony concerts for residents of the 
city. The first of these concerts will be 
presented in Heinz Hall at 8 PM, Wednes
day, November 23, to be conducted by 
the Symphonys associate conductor, Don
ald Jahonos.
These concerts are the result of a 
grant from the citys Performing Arts 
Program. Each year the series consists of 
four concerts, the last of which is pre
sented in early summer in Schenely Park.
Appearing as the second feature in Heinz 
"Halls Cavalcade of Great Bands series 
will be the New Brubeck Quartet for one 
concert only Tuesday, November 1 at
8 PM
Tickets to hear this special jazz en
semble are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Sears, Gimbels, 
and Hornes.
This season the exciting organ recital series 
at Carnegie Music Hall, Carnegie Institute 
will feature prominent Pittsburgh Musi
cians as guest soloists along with the 
scheduled organists.
The concerts, given every third Sunday 
of each month from October to March, at 
3 oclock provide a leisurely afternoon of 
family enjoyment in the beautiful setting 
of the Music Hall.
Scheduled for the first recital on Octo
ber 16th are organist Paul Koch and guest 
soloist Elizabeth Youngue, mezzo-soprano.
Jazz saxophonist Eric Kloss and his 
quintet will perform in Point Park College's 
student lounge, Wednesday, October 26 
from 3-5 p.m. The event, sponsored by the 
Office of Student Affairs, is free and open 
to the public.
A Fall Jazz Concert will be held on Octo
ber 29 from 1 to 5 p.m. at Chatham Col
lege. Admission is free. Featured will be 
the Pitt Jazz Ensemble and Kid Smoker 
will be the special guest. The concert will 
be held in the Chatham Chapel if it should 
rain. For more information call 441-8200.
An international program, featuring Amer
ican, German and Russian composers, 
has been announced by the Pittsburgh 
Symphony for its City Concert, Wed
nesday, November 23, 8 PM, in Heinz 
Hall. Admission is free to city residents 
only for the City Concerts, funded by 
the citys Performing Arts Program.
* For the 16th year the City of Pitts
burgh is sponsoring four free concerts 
by the Pittsburgh Symphony, the last 
of which will take place in early summer 
in Schenley Park.
Music giant Andre Kostelanetz will con
duct the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops Or
chestra in concerts in Heinz Hall on Sat
urday, November 5 at 8 p.m., Sunday, 
November 6 at 8 p.m. and Monday, Nov
ember 7 at 7:30 p.m. Attendance at Pops 
concerts is by series subscription only. 
However, tickets are occasionally turned
back to the box office for reassignment. 
For information phone 281-5000.
THEATRE
As part of its artistic expansion plans for 
the 1977-78 season, Pittsburgh Public The
atre will initiate a New Play Development 
Program of staged readings including three 
new plays never before produced. The 
series is intended to develop and refine 
plays with the playwright for eventual 
mainstage performances at the Public,. Due 
to extremely limited seating, this series is 
available only to the Publics subscribers.
All readings will be presented on Pitts
burgh Public Theaters mainstage at the 
Allegheny Theater on the city's Northside.
Same Time, Next Year, the romantic 
comedy hit starring Barbara Rush and 
Tom Troupe, will continue Heinz Halls 
Broadway Theater Series for eight per
formances on November 8-13.
Ranging from $10 to $4, tickets for 
this Broadway smash comedy are on sale 
at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Hornes, Kauf
manns and Sears. Discount information 
for students, senior citizens, and groups 
of 20 orsmore is available by contacting 
Ms. Nancy Sieber at 281-8185.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
THE RULING CLASS by Peter Barnes, 
Fridays through Sundays, October 14-16, 
21-23, 28-30; November 4-6, 11-13, and 
18-20, at 8:30 PM. The Lab Theatre is 
located at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of 
Fifth and Craft), Oakland. Seating is lim
ited and advance reservations should be 
made by calling 621-2876.
Applause, a musical version of the film 
All About Eve, which starred Bette Da
vis and Ann Baxter, will begin a 12- 
performance run October 28 at McKee
sport Little Theater. Playdates are Octo
ber 28, 29, 30, November 4, 5, 6, 11,
12, 13, 18, 19, and 20.
David Rabes electrifying play Streamers 
will have its Pittsburgh premier at Al
legheny Campus College Community 
Theatre on October 20, 21, 22, 28, and
29 at 8:30 PM and on October 23 and
30 at 2:30 PM. Reservations can be ob
tained by calling 237-2622. Admission 
is free.
Pittsburgh Public Theater this season intro
duces a dynamic new concept in its on
going Community Arts programming. A 
series of in-theater symposiums, entitled 
THE PUBLIC FORUM, designed to create 
open discussion between experts in a var
iety of fields and the general public on 
some of the contemporary issues expound
ed in today's drama, will be presented as an 
outgrowth of two of the Public's 1977-78 
season productions.
For additional information on the Pub
lic Forum, contact the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater at 765-3400.
CINEMA
AB has reserved October 27th for their 
Film Arts Horror Night. They will be 
screening Un Chien Andalou and The Cab
inet of Dr. Caligari. Both are important 
classics. Admission is .75 with an ID and 
the showings are at 6 and 8. All showings 
for AB are in Doherty Hall.
AB will be presenting Ladies and Gen
tlemen the Rolling Stones for the benefit 
of the music lovers on October 28 at 6:30,
9, and 11:30. Admission is one dollar with 
ID. Screenings are in Doherty Hall.
SDC is showing Bye Bye Birdie on Oct
ober 29 at 6, 8:30 and 11 in Doherty Hall. 
This low budget musical was conceived 
during the Elvis era and has some fun mo
ments despite its lousy filmmaking. It's 
free.
The Carnegie Institute sponsors several 
films a week in their building down in Oak
land. Admission is always one dollar. Call 
the film section of Carnegie Institute at 
622-3212.
Expedition to Excitement is the theme 
of Carnegie Institute's 1977-1978 Travel 
Film Series.
On October 24-27 Eric Pavel will pre
sent the first series travelogue, "The Rhine 
River. Mr. Pavel's travelogue career began 
here at Carnegie Institute. His European 
background and education pervades his 
vision of the Rhine River and the people 
who dwell along Europe's busiest water
way.
ART
The Hewlett Gallery located in the building 
of Fine Arts will begin an exhibition of the 
works by the Carnegie-Mellon University 
Department of Art Faculty. The show will 
run from October 10 until October 27. 
The Gallery is open Monday through Fri
day from 11:00 until 4:00 PM.
A show of visual metaphors by Roches
ter (Pa.) artist Elizabeth A. Douglas is be
ing featured at Heinz Hall this month. The 
works exhibited in the Gallery of Heinz 
Hall are all recent, most being shown for 
the first time. The paintings can be
viewed before and after each scheduled 
Heinz Hall performance, through October
31.
WRCT
WRCT has acquired a new live concert 
series. The first concert will be aired on 
October 30 at 8:00 p.m. Artie Traum and 
Andy Pratt will be featured on this initial 
event.
MISC.
TGIF will be presenting a dynamite 
Pittsburgh band named Church Street. 
Theyve played in many lounges, discos 
and bars in the area. Theyre set to appear 
in the Skibo Ballroom from 9:30 until 
12:30 on November 4. Get there early.
Richard Leakey, one of the worlds 
renowned anthropologists will deliver a 
lecture on his new book Origins here in 
Pittsburgh. The lecture is scheduled for 
October 26 at 8 p.m. in David Lawrence 
Hall at the University of Pittsburgh. Tick
ets for the free lecture may be picked up in 
person at the Student Union, University of 
Pittsburgh, or at the Public Relations 
Office at Carnegie Institute.
The International Poetry Forum will 
present poets, Anthony Ostroff and 
David Wagoner, on Wednesday, October 
26, at 8:00 PM in Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Tickets for this reading are $3.00 
and are available to students for $2.00. 
Tickets may be purchased at Kaufmanns, 
Sears, the Pitt Student Union or the 
Forum office in Carnegie Library, Oak
land.
yCutout for a weekend
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you ... its time to escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. So make plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever pastures are greener. Make your reservation with National today.
*You pay for gas and return car to renting city. Rate available Friday noon to 
Monday noon. Non-discountable rate subject to change without notice.

---------------------------------------------------

October 25, 1977TARTANpage 19
Intramurals THINCLADS SET FOR CASE
CO REC VOLLEYBALL-Major league 
playoffs are being held tonight. 8 PM 
Coaches All-Stars vs. Phi Kappa ThetaA, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Beta Theta Pi. 
At 9 PM winners will meet to decide the 
Co rec champion. All action takes place in 
main gym.
Minor league playoffs on Wedneday, 
Oct. 26 at 8 PM with Flying Fubar vs. 
Biohazard, and Beauty and Beast vs. Kiss. 
Winners will meet to decide championship 
at 9 PM.
WATER POLOCompetition has begun 
with PKA-A and The Fox Catchers both 
undefeated at 3-0.
CHESSPlaying schedules are out and 
can be picked up in the I.M. office. Any 
question can be referred to Commissioner 
Ken Bosch at Delta Upsilon.
SOCCER-Play begins on November 2. 
There will be 31 teams competion in 3 
divisions. Questions can be directed to 
Commissioner Mike Snizek at Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon.
TEAM VOLLEYBALL-Check I.M. Bul
letin board for game schedules. All games 
will be played at 8 and 9 PM. There are 
36 teams plus 10 womens teams and 
all questions can be directed to Com
missioner Dave Chandler at SAE.
SQUASHAll games will be played as 
soon as court repairs are completed. Com
missioner is Ken Bosch from DU.
TENNISThe GSIA Bucks defeated 
Delta Upsilon for the I.M. tennis cham
pionship. After dropping 1st singles 
6-4, 6-2, the Bucks won 2nd singles 6-2, 
6-1 and doubles 6-0, 6-1.
UPCOMING SPORTS-Rosters due No
vember 1st. 1) 3-Man Volleyball, 2) Darts, 
3) Backgammon.
MAJOR LEAGUE FOOTBALL 
FINAL STANDINGS
By Cre with M. A.
When last heard from, CMUs cross 
country team had assembled a string of 
victories, and was prepping for its faceoff against arch-rival Case-Western Reserve. 
Despite a valiant effort, the Tartans were 
edged by Case, but have defeated their 
five subsequent opponents and are build
ing up steam for next weeks PAC Cham
pionships.
Racing under cold and rainy condi
tions, the Tartans emerged a temporary 
second best during their triangular meet 
with Case Western and Washington & Jef
ferson on Oct. 8. Refusing to submit 
to the competitive Case harriers, the team 
was led by freshmen Dario Donatelli and 
Steve Crelli in third and fourth places. 
The wet Homecoming crowd enjoyed the 
action as the entire team ran well.
Westminster College arrived next in 
town, and was a willing victim for the 
hungry Tartans. Leading CMU again were 
the two Italian yearlings, Crelli and Dona
telli, who ran to a tandem victory. Junior
behind, and freshman Mark Tarantino and 
sophmore Bernie Ivanshultz rounded out 
the scoring in fifth and sixth. The team 
shut-out the opposition with a perfect 
15-50 score (low score wins).
inspired by the beautiful fall foliage of 
Greenville, home of Thiel College, the 
Tartans annihilated the competition, win
ning easily over Thiel and John Carroll. 
Steve Crelli established a new record over 
the hilly 5-mile course with a time of 
25:37.* - Donatelli, Faloon, Tartantino, 
Ivanshultz, sophmore Barry Vukoder, and 
junior Larry Gordon completed CarnegieMellons scoring.
The hardy thinclads next feasted on 
the hapless Hiram harriers. Racing through 
the cold and damp trails of Schenley Park, 
CMU punished the competition with gruel
ing hill running. Faloon, Donatelli, and 
Crelli shared the win. Prancing sophmore 
Jim Biery and Jay Simmons, the 1976 
high school city champion, set personal 
bests. Exhibiting perseverence, Bruce 
Krebbers and Steve Medvetz ran well in
standout Steve Faloon finished closely completing the team effort for CMU.
In their most recent action, this past 
Saturday, the Tartan harriers travelled to 
Moon Township to race Robert Morris, 
an NCAA Division I school. CMU, a Di
vision III power, bowled over their 
hosts. Steve Faloon led the team with a 
second place finish in a time of 26:33, 
which bettered the established record 
for the hilly, obstacle-ridden 5-mile course. 
Tallying the score, CMU garnered the win, 
23-34.
Due to retirement and injuries among 
the veteran brigade, the teams all-important pack has undergone several changes. 
Shooting to fill the Varsity have been 
freshmen Tarantino and Simmons, and the 
re-vitalized sophmore, Bernie Ivanshultz. 
They now rival their teammates Vukorer, 
Gordon, and Biery for the last four posi
tions on the travelling squad.
Coach Meckely is anxious for his run
ners to get another race behind them befor the November 5 championship race. 
While an opponent has yet to be enlisted, 
the Tartans will hold their final home 
meet this Saturday morning.Tech Booters Trip Two
bv Gordon Banks TTio Hpfoncp r*rnciQtino rf r^nrop B TVia i-iintpft althmioh
TEAM
Coaches All-Stars 
Alpha Tau Omega 
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
C-Map A 
Beta Theta 
Glorified Plumbers
WON LOST 
6 0
4 2
3 3
3 3
3 3
2 4
0 6
????????????
FOOTBALL-In I.M. football playoff 
action on Sunday, Alpha Tau Omega de
feated Pika by the score of 36-12 and 
Coaches All-Stars dropped SAE 40-18. 
Coaches and ATO meet for the champion
ship tomorrow at 8 PM.
by Gordon Banks
Playing with hopes of salvaging a dis
appointing season, the CMU soccer team 
charged their batteries and proved that 
wins come to those that truly desire them. 
The Tartan booters picked up two big 
wins while displaying a combination of 
some awesome offense coupled with 
tenacious defense.
On Tuesday nox conference foe St. 
Vincent visited the CMU campus only to 
be greeted by a goal hungry tech squad 
which scored no fewer than nine times 
while shutting out the potenially dangerous 
St. Vincent offense. Captain Keith Hordatt broke the ice at about the eight min
ute mark of the first half and the Tartans 
were off to the races. It was Morion Mil
ler who had the goal of the game on a 
high cross into the middle which Miller 
headed into the empty net. Hordatt was 
to score three more times in the half to 
bring St. Vincent to their knees as CMU 
led at intermission 5-0.
The second half was almost a xerox 
copy of the first with many of the second 
team getting greatly deserved playing time. 
The tech squad got goals from freshman 
Rick Briesch and Carl Pavelko and sopho
mores John Hawkins and Bob Sikora.
The defense consisting of Sikora, George  The contest, although close scoring, was not
Canepa and Tom Meagher with later help 
from Scott Levy and Mike Snizek was once 
again excellent and goalies Hawkins and 
freshman Dan Carlin teamed for CMUs 
third shutout of the season.
On Friday, CMU won their third con
secutive shutout defeating Hiram 1-0.
indicative of the class of play CMU 
needed but the halftime break organized 
and set up what has become a consistent 
offense. The Tartans had many close calls 
with Tom Binnie getting the tie breaker 
and what proved to be the game winner 
at the 75 minute of the contest.
Hockey Harvested
By Lynn Ritter
The CMU Womens Field Hockey team 
concluded its season on Thursday with a 
good game against always tough Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania. Indiana 
scored early in the first half and then the 
CMU game came together. Excellent 
teamwork was shown; good passing and 
few mistakes. Everyone seemed to be in 
the right place. The momentum carried 
into the second half where Ann Schauer 
scored a beautifully executed goal early
in the second half. CMU had many 
close calls but Indianas tough defense 
managed to hold us to one goal. Three 
quarters of the way through the second 
half, Indiana scored again, making the 
final score Indiana2, CMU1. Despite 
the loss it was the best played game CMU 
has had all season.
Audrey Goldstein was re-elected to 
captain the team through next season. 
Also-Good luck to Kim, Joan, Judy, 
Crystal and Ingrid.
FILM & DISCUSSION:
Mother Teresa:
Love without Boundaries" 
TUESDAY 8:00 P.M.
October 25 CMUs Chapel (Skibo 39)
iPOTx 7Tiiwi4
7:00P.M. Saturday Folk Mass 
10:30 A.M. Folk Mass 
12:00 Noon Solemn Liturgy ----
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose Room 
Heinz Chapel
DAILY MASSES Monday through Friday
12:30 Noontime CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
&
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMUs R.C. Chaplaincy - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
(412) 681*3181
ChemicalEngineering
Chemistry
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, 
one of the fastest growing specialty chemi
cals companies and a recognized leader in 
its field, has unique opportunities offering ex
ceptional career potential for Spring graduates 
majoring in the above.
Please visit our Representative 
On November 10
If unable to attend please send your resume to 
Richard Ranieri, Coordinator, Employment/Training
STARCH ANO CHEMICAL CORPORATION
10 Fmderne Avenue 
Bridgewater, New Jersey 08807
Af Qu.tl OfWtUlunify i mplotiu U/f
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS____________________TARTANS CUNCH TITLE TIE
by Dave Wills
An overflow crowd at Tech Stadium 
watched Carnegie-Mellon clinch a tie for 
their first P.A.C. football title ever.
What was supposed to be a close game 
between the two conference favorites 
turned into an offensive show by CMU, as 
the Tartans equaled their average of 396 
yards in total offense against the Gators. 
This was most impressive, considering that 
Allegheny was ranked number 1 in Divi
sion III in scoring defense, as well as pos
sessing an All-American candidate at line
backer in Mark Matlack.
The Tartans were ranked number 5 in 
the Sourthern Division of Division III, and 
hopefully will move up after this victory. 
These rankings have some influence over 
which colleges get a chance to play in the 
A. Alonzo Stagg Bowl in Alabama for the 
Division III championship.
Mike Kostic kicked off to Allegheny to 
begin the game, with Allegheny returning 
to the 32 yard line. On third and six. Mark 
Matlack tried the middle for 2 yards before 
he ran into Bob Hantz, and the Gators had 
to punt.
CMU started off strong on offense, with 
Rick Leamon gaining 9 yards on a counter, 
and then Gary Bonn getting 8 yards on an 
outside veer, coming within a step of 
breaking for a touchdown. CarnegieMellon's offensive line began pounding 
Alleghenys defense, allowing Leamon and 
Bonn 4 and 5 yards a crack, with Bob Ken
nedy providing some variety with his op
tion run to the outside. The first score of 
the game was set up by Kennedy on a 
sprint out pass, where he couldnt find an 
open receiver and turned upfield. moving 
the ball 12 yards to within a foot of the 
goal line. Kennedy was shaken up on the 
play, so Rick Brown came in and scored on 
a quarterback sneak. Kostic's P.A.T. made
the score 7-0. This drive went 70 yards in 
16 plays, consuming 8 minutes in the pro
cess, and exemplified CMUs ball control 
offense.
Allegheny moved the ball up to mid 
field after the ensuing kickoff, only to have 
the Tartan defense shut them down. The 
Gators lost 14 yards on two plays, one 
being a nine yard sack by linebacker Don 
Fastuca. Once again Hantz made a big stop 
on third down and CMU got the ball back 
again.
Allegheny got their only score of the 
game when Matt Wchile wasn't able to get 
away a punt, and was tackled on CMUs 13 
yard line. Matlack gained 12 yards on a 
sweep, then scored on a dive over center. 
The extra point made it 7-7. with 13:38 
left in the first half.
Ralph David got Carnegie-Mellons next 
drive started, returning the kickoff 24 
yards to the 30 yard line. Bob Kennedy 
passed to Craig Hladik for 13 yards, and 
then after gaining 9 yards himself, fired a 
41 yard scoring strike to Tony Digoia. Jim 
Starr insured that Digoia got the T.D. by 
knocking over two Gator tacklers. Kostics 
kick made it 14-7.
The Tartan defense came up with a big 
play with 3:54 left in the half, as Pat Olivo 
recovered an Allegheny fumble on the Tar
tan 33 yardline.
After two runs by Leamon. Kennedy 
circled end for 1 1 yards, and as he was 
tackled, lateraled to Bonn who picked up 
five more. A counter by Leamon put the 
ball on Alleghenys 35 yardline, and a 
holding call against the Gators moved the 
ball to the 17 yard line. With :52 seconds 
left in the half. Kennedy rolled out to his 
left and tossed a perfect pass to Hladik. 
who caught the ball over his shoulder in 
the coiner of (lie end one. Kostics P.A.T. 
made the score 21-7 as the half ended.
>8B c55c,zJ .cV1.,9cCC 8N 1MMc1.15-cCJ lC 58a ,15-l5V tlan ancCc 21a8. ,cNc5,c.Cnc ,l, n8tcfc. 
UCc C8sc N15-z N88at8.u a8 anc aU5c 8N y6F z1.,C .UCnl5V 85 i1aU.,1zg
ending Alleghenys lastThe Tartans wasted no time scoring in 
the second half, taking only 2:51 to do so. 
Five straight power runs by Bonn and Bob 
Gasier put the ball on CMUs 47 yard line. 
On the next play, Kennedy called his fav
orite play, optioning left off of the veer, 
and then turned upfield. breaking several 
tackles enroute to a 53 yard scoring run. 
Hladik scored two points off of the muddle 
huddle play, ending the scoring for the day 
at 29-7.
The remainder of the game saw CMU 
pile up yardage on long time-consuniing 
drives, only to come up empty handed be
cause of a missed field goal and a fumble.
Allegheny came close to scoring twice, 
once when Frank Civitarese caught a pass 
just out of the end zone, and the other 
coming at the end of the game, when Matt 
Wehile made a Gordon Jones-like catch of
an interception, 
chance of scoring.
Mike Jochman remarked that Allegheny 
was. probably the most physical team 
CMU played all year, and he was im
pressed with Allegheny's Mark Matlack, 
who accounted for most of the Gators 
offense. The Tartans werent able to stop 
Matlack cold, as he finished the game with 
124 yards in 22 attempts, thereby retaining 
his lead as the number one runner in the 
P.A.C.
Jochman, Hantz, Fastuca, Olivo, and 
Jac Caine led a tremendous defensive ef
fort to control the Gators offense during 
the game.
The Tartans can.claim the P.A.C. title 
outright next week if they can at least tie 
Hiram. Hiram was the only team to beat 
Allegheny before Saturday.
The Trenchmen-Our Forgotten Heroes
by Bob Firm
Coaches in all sports follow the creed of 
Offenses score points, defenses win cham
pionships.'' At Carnegie-Mellon this season, 
defense has been a major part of the Tar
tans drive for the Presidents Athletic Con
ference title. Much of the success can be 
attributed to the men in the trenches.
CMUs defensive line of tackles Mike 
Jochman and Bob Hantz, ends Jim Dicken
son and Mark Demo, and noseguard Rick 
Arturo has been a large factor in placing 
Tech among the nations elite for scoring 
defense and total offense defense. CMU 
ranks high in both categories for NCAA 
Division III schools.
Defensive co-ordinated Mo Smith has 
high praise for the defensive line this sea
son. He felt that The most important part
of the defense this season is that the line 
has improved 100%. both in strength and 
quickness. They also work well as a unit. I 
think this comes from working with the 
same coaches for a second year."
A big part of football is controlling the 
line of scrimmage. CMUs opponents have 
found it nearly impossible to move out the 
front five that averages 6 feet 210 pounds. 
Theyve also been responsible for forcing 
nearly four turnovers a game.
Hantz and Jochman have been at CMU 
for four years. The two seniors feel that 
this years team is the best in their college 
careers. Hantz. a metallurgy and materials 
science major, said, The biggest change 
has been the coaching staff. Theyve instil
led a winning attitude into the program.
Dickenson also feels that organization 
has been a reason for the improvement in 
Tartan football. He said. We don't prac
tice any longer than we used to a couple of 
years ago, but Coach (Chuck) Klausing is 
more organized. As a result, we accomplish 
more at practice.
Coach Klausing and his staff have made 
it easier to get the outstanding athletes. 
Demo, who Coach Smith said is probably 
the most outstanding all-around athlete on 
the line, said Coach Klausing had a major 
influence on his choice of CMU. The win
ning program has also attracted the highly 
touted high school stars like freshman 
Arturo. The outstanding noseguard from 
WPIAL champs Penn Hills was sought after 
by several colleges because of his All-State 
credentials. He chose CMU because of the 
academics and also the winning program. 
Hitting and physical contact were the 
main satisfactions that the linemen got out 
of football. Dickenson summed it best by 
saying, Youre involved in the game on
'ti
l
SwTbid7w Sh3wid7wPg a8 r.) 71.u cs8J 7luc 08-nsl5J bl-u T.aU.8J >8B m1Ua< 15,J 0ls l-uc5C85
every play.
If hitting is his main enjoyment, Joch
man should be happy for many a year. The 
5-11, 230 pounder is the leading tackier on 
the defensive wall. He said that the biggest 
problem of playing on the defensive line is 
coping with the anonymity. He may be 
anonymous to the average fans, but 
coaches and offensive guards have to recog
nize him as one of the best that theyll see.
Statistics, and obscure ones at that, are 
the main Recognition that a defensive unit 
can receive. Coach Smith has a chart in the 
locker room with, such items as holding a 
team to under 100 yards rushing or pass
ing, preventing runs of over 20 yards, and 
quarterback sacks. Demo said that this 
chart is something that we all take pride 
in because it shows that weve accom
plished our goals.'' Dickenson added that 
the incentive has made the line a closer 
knit group.
There also is the added incentive of in
dividual accomplishments. Besides fumble 
recoveries, number of tackles, etc.. each 
player is rated by the coaches on how well 
lie did his job on every play. This comes 
from the game films. He is then given a 
total grade for his Saturday afternoon ef
fort. Hant/ attests to how tough the 
grading can be. Some of the grades that 
are given would put any CMU professor to 
shame."
Although the combination of Dickenson 
Hantz. Arturo. Jochman, and Demo will 
never rival Greenwood. Greene. Furness, 
and White, they have had the same terror
izing effect on PAC opponents that the 
Steel Curtain has on the NFL. The front 
five has made things happen all season for 
the Tartans by putting into practice their 
favorite Coach Moism. If they don't score 
we dont lose."
