t ;-w5 -1 w
SB

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Presidents Distinguished Lecture Seri<
presen
Th
The Honorable Livingston L. Biddle
former Chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts
with a response given by
William Lafe
Associate Director and Chief Program Officer of the 
Pittsburgh Foundation
Monday, April 15, 1985 
4:30 p.m. 
Alumni Concert Hall 
Carnegie-Mellon University
(Sponsored by Student Senate)

---------------------------------------------------

Sweepstakes '85
MENS HEATS
HeatLANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1BETA-DPKT-DKS-D
2TX-DSN-DDTD-C
3SAE-CPLP-CDU-C
4FRINGE-BCIA-DSDC-A
5BETA-CPKT-AKS-C
6PIKA-DTX-BATO-C
7SN-CDU-BCIA-B
8DTD-BSAE-BKS-A
9TX-APKT-CPLP-B
1CCIA-CPIKA-CSDC-B
11BETA-BSAE-ASPIRIT-A
12ATO-BDU-ASN-B
13KS-BPIKA-BFRINGE-A
14CIA-ATX-C
15SPIRIT-BBETA-A
16DTD-APIKA-AATO-A
17SN-APKT-yBPLP-A
WOMENS HEATS
1t;-wSN-ABETA-A
2CIA-CKS-BFRINGE-B
3PLP-ADU-ASPIRIT-B
4ATO-ACIA-BTX-B
5SDC-AKS-A
6PLP-BPKT-AFRINGE-A
7SDC-BSPIRIT-ACIA-A
Key: BETA - Beta Theta Pi; PKT - Phi Kappa Theta; KS - Kappa Sigma; TX - Theta 
Xi; SN - Sigma Nu; DTD - Delta Tau Delta; SAE - Sigma Alpha Epsilon; PLP - Phi Lambda 
Phi; DU - Delta Upsilon; CIA - Carnegie Involvement Association; SDC - Student Dorm 
Council; FRINGE - Fringe; SPIRIT - Spirit House.
April 16, 1985The Tartan 1985 Spring Carnival Preview Page 3
Is this the way of the future? Delta Upsilon rolled the first two-wheeled buggy this weekend. It finally made it through the chute Saturday
Gnome predicts typical Pika, Beta, Sigma Nu finish
By COMPUBOOKIE
Special to The Tartan
Compubookie is a little green gnome who 
lives under the Panther Hollow Bridge. 
Despite being buried under snow last week, 
he shoveled his way out to provide us with 
his (her?) yearly prediction.
Last years races were close and exciting. 
Sigma Nu was left with an empty feeling 
after losing to Pika for the second straight 
year, while Others were left hanging. The 
margin of victor, was so close that its time 
for a new system, and this years should be 
a real lulu.
Of course, last year was rough on the 
drivers, and with all the rain this year, the 
driving may be pour. However, the newly 
resurfaced course should pave the way to a 
new record.
This year, everyone is chuting for Pikas 
triple crown. Theta Xi and Fringe have 
shown much improvement, while Sigma Nu,
^eta, Pika and CIA should remain at the
top.
In the womens heats, will Aplha Theta 
and CIA finish one and two, or will that 
order be exchanged?
At any rate, this years Sweepstakes should 
as exciting as ever.
Theta Xi: Theta Xi wohled its way to 
Seventh place last year. But I doubt theyll 
among the winters this year.
Fringe: After last years good showing,
they are on the fringe of run-ng in the topsix.
ZBT: Even though ZBT never had a shot 
at lhe summit, theyll be there in Spirit.
ATO: ATO may be worth a gander. As 
a,Ways. they will be able to feld a few good 
J^en ^0r their push team, and with the new 
'jSgy. they may not be the door matt theyve 
een recently.
DU: Du think theyll roll the two-wheeler? 
wuldnt if it was up to my.
CIA: The days of magic are gone at CIA. 
The days of pane are here. It seems that they 
cant build anything but Sherman tanks 
because theyre haunted by spectres.
SDC: Theyve lost the lust to win.
Sigma Nu: Sigma Nu is calugoless as to 
which buggy to roll. They meir may not roll 
Lemur A-team. Although theyll save face 
on Hill 1, the rest of the push team needs 
more doctoring.
Kappa Sig: Are they going to finish under 
three minutes, man, or is it all a mirage?
SAE: Theyll finish second... in Greek 
Sing.
Phi Kap: Last year, Phi Kap flipped after 
kurting with danger. Since they meir may 
not get good rubber this year, theyre hang
ing in the shadows, ready to hit the rhoads.
Pika: Despite bearly winning last year, 
some say it will be loe-big deal for the Pukes 
to paul away from the field. Even though 
their buggies arent spic-and-span, they cer
tainly shouldnt be mached.
Pilam: They have such a rich history of 
spinning out in the chute that theyve 
become a legend.
Beta: Beta is rejude-inated with the 
presence of their new buggy. With their 
golden push team and Nikes, theyre vixen 
to win. All they need is a brake at the end.
DTD: No comment; Ive had my phil of 
picks this year.
PICKS:
Mens Heats
1. Pika A-Things are looking sonny for Pika 
this year.
2. Beta A-If the chemistry is right, they 
could be in for a real treat.
3. Sigma Nu ACould be gold, silvers, or 
bronze.
4. CIA AAn abel push team.
5. (tie) Beta B, Pika B-Theyll duke it out 
for 5th place.
Compubookie picks Pika

---------------------------------------------------

Camegie-Mellon University Spring Carnival
Thursday, April 18
9 AMGymSkibo Desk 
NoonGrey Matter
Buggy Display and Design Competition Pre-Sale of Ride Tickets (until 3 p.m.)
Pick Up Snoopy and The Red Baron Dog Fights Assignments (Spies)Pick Up Scavenger Hunt Lists
Picnic Sponsored by Sophomore Class
4:30 PMCut/FlagpoleFlag Ceremony Featuring Air Force R.O.T.C. Army R.O.T.C., and Kiltie Band
5:00 PMMidwayOpening CeremoniesFeaturing Renko from Hill Street Blues'
AB Movie: Lolita
SDC: The Dating Game
8:00 PMBallroom Kresge Theatre
9:00 PMTentDH 2210 Wherrett Room
10:00 PMTech Stadium (Rain: Saturday)
MidnightMidway
Scotch n Soda Zelda!Drama Production The Beggars Opera
AB Dance: Phil Dirt and the Dozers AB Movie: LolitaSARC Presents All Night Cartoons (until 2 a.m.)
Friday, April 19 
9 AMTech Street
Fireworks
Sweepstakes Races
NoonMidwayTentCut
Midway ClosesMidway OpensAB Coffeehouse: Michael SpiroSpecial Food Extravaganza: Dagwood Sandwich
1:00 PMMidway Wherrett RoomCaricaturist (until 4 p.m.)Cartoons Continuous (until 7 p.m.)
SDC Concert: Leave of Absence Team Competition
Tom Willmorth (Mime)
4:00 PMGrey Matter
4:30 PMIM Field(Rain: Saturday)
T-Shirt Display and Competition
Skydiving Exhibition/Raffle
It Comes In Colors

---------------------------------------------------

5:00 PMTent
6:00 PMDH 2210
7:00 PMTech Stadium (Rain: Gym)
SDC Presents: Jazz Choir
Movie: Missing in Action
AB Concert: NRBQ with Special Guest 14 Karat Soul and Denny Dent and His Two Fisted Art Attack GSO Square Dancing
8:00 PMBallroom Kresge Theatre
8:30 PMDH 2210
Scotch n Soda Zelda!Drama Production The Beggars Opera"
AB Movie: Missing In Action
Documentary Film about Buggy
11:00 PMTentDH 2210
MidnightMidway
AB Movie: Wizards AB Movie: Missing In Action
Midway Closes
Saturday, April 20 
9 AMTech Street
NoonMidwayCutCut
1:00 PMTentMidway Tennis Courts
Sweepstakes Races
Midway Opens Special Food Extravaganza A Phi O Musical Chairs
SDC Presents: Kiltie Band Caricaturist (until 4 p.m.)CMU Mens Tennis vs Washington & Jefferson
Team Competition
SDC Concert: P Love Project
Jim Krenn (Impressionist)
6:00 PMTentDH 2210
8:00 PMBallroom Kresge Theatre 
DH 2210
8:30 PMTech Stadium (Rain: Gym)
9:00 PMMidway
10:00 PMTentDH 2210
MidnightDH 2210
Mr. G (Hypnotist)SDC Movie: African Queen
Scotch n Soda Zelda!Drama Production The Beggars Opera' SDC Movie: African Queen
Closing Awards Ceremonies Featuring Juggler Chris Bliss In A Concert For Your Eyes
Midway Closes
SDC DanceSDC Movie: African Queen
SDC Movie: African Queen

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The Tartan 1985 Spring Carnival Preview April 16,1985
Buggy chairmen
SAEs Roaring Twenties booth was a highlight of last years Mid*3?
A little science, athletics and insanity
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
It's 6 a.m. on a chilly spring Sunday 
morning. Representatives from all the cam
pus fraternities and several other organiza
tions litter upper Margaret Morrison Street. 
What brings these hundred-odd supposed
ly sane people out at such an ungodly hour? 
Buggy fever.
Since 1920, the buggy races have been the 
highlight of Spring Carnival. And since that 
time, the basic object has remained the 
same: to complete the one mile course in the 
shortest time. The course begins at the front 
of Margaret Morrison Hall, proceeds up 
Margaret Morrison St., then curves through 
Schenley Park, then makes a u-turn up the 
back hills on Frew Street to the finish line 
at GSIA. The most crucial part of the course 
is the chute, the part of the course where
the buggies make the sharp turn on Frew 
Street. The hay bales lining both sides of the 
street are a testimony to the frequent spin
outs and crashes that insure an extra large 
crowd on race day.
Although the course has remained un
changed, the technology of the buggies has 
advanced hugely from the original crate-like 
creations of the 1920 s. The buggies are now 
sleek, aerodynamically designed vehicles 
which roll at up to 40 mph. Currently, the 
latest buggy design change is a reduction in 
the number of wheels. Three wheelers ( one 
in the front, two in the rear) are gradually 
replacing four wheelers that have dominated 
since 1920. Sweepstakes 1985 is unique in the 
context that it marks the introduction of the 
first two wheeler by a surprise candidate, 
Delta Upsilon. Although more resembling 
a shrouded bicycle than a buggy, it is uni
que nonetheless. Technological im
provements, such as better wheels and 
chemically treating and pre heating of those 
wheels, have been the major impetus behind 
the steady decline in course times over the 
years, although the record time of 2:09.0 in
1983 has not as yet been bettered. The next 
major barrier is the two minute mark. Beta 
buggy co-chairman Denzil Boss predicts the 
two minute mark will be broken, but no tell
ing when.
Technology is only half the secret to buggy 
success. A good push team, the five in
dividuals responsible for shoving the buggies 
over the uphill portions of the course. The 
key individuals of a successful pusher are 
speed combined with good upper body 
strength.
No less crucial is the sixth member of the 
buggy team, the driver. The difference bet
ween a good and a merely average drive: 
be the margin of victory. Usually a coed 
or smaller, and weighing less than 
pounds, the drivers are expected to sacs
much free time for free-rolls' on Saffi 
and Sunday mornings and push-prad 
each weekday night. During runs, they 
belted into the buggies and have not 
of movement, save that of their hands 
feet to work brakes and to steer. Theb 
gies, however, are carefully tested toins 
driver safety, and injuries are few.
The total focus of all of these efforts 
minutes on Carnival Saturday. During 
and the preliminary Friday, buggiesr 
course in pairs, starting at 9 a.m. each 
competing for the next years brag 
rights.
Hill One is a key hill in Sweepstakes 85.
The Outlaws played last years
By C.D.L. and B.J.J.
Tartan Staffwriters
Buggy chairmen are perhaps the busiest 
people on campus this time of year. The Tar
tan woke up many of these gentlemen and 
asked their views on various aspects of 
Sweepstakes 1985. Through glazed eyes and 
strained voices, they gave us these answers. 
In alphabetical order:
Alpha Tau Omega 
Names of buggies entered: Gander, 
Mercury.
Technological developments: Getting the 
buggy out.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top ten with a 
break or two.
Winners: Beta, Pika, Sigma Nu.
Beta Theta Pi 
Names of buggies entered: Vixen, Presence, 
and a fourth buggy (name not yet 
determined).
Technological developments: None. 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Optimistic.
Pika, Sigma Nu, and Fringe 
I feel like it.
Carnegie Involvement Association 
Names of buggies entered: Black Magic, 
Dark Star, Spectre, and a fourth buggy. 
Technological developments: Internal improvements.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top six 
Winners: Hard to pick. Two 0r 
seconds here or there.
Delta Tau Delta 
Names of buggies entered: Cyclone V 
and a third buggy.
Technological developmenmts: 
zoo. New, very light design. 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: We plan toK. 
the Delt record (2:25 in 1979). 
Winners: Sigma Nu, Beta.
Delta Upsilon 
Names of buggies entered: Lame, ft, 
Horned Screamer.
Technological developments: Lotsofi 
tape.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Well be then 
race day.
Winners: Too close to call, between] 
and Pika.
Fringe
Names of buggies entered: Benefit, 
Flying Buttress.
Technological developments: Duct \ 
and Ben Gay.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Mens - * 
ten. Womens  First place. 
Winners: Sigma Nu, Beta, Pika ini
Photos by: Bob Fishel, JVe 
Greenblum, Mike Pilewski, an 
Olve Peersen

---------------------------------------------------

April 16, 1985The Tartan 1985 Spring Carnival Preview -Page 7
ell their stories
fler.Kappa Sigma
,e5 of buggies entered: Minuteman,
Discipline.
[hnological developments: Were just 
Ling along.
Li0()k for Sweepstakes: Better than the 
|t few years.
nners: Pika, Beta, or Sigma Nu. All rollquite well.
Phi Kappa Theta
I mes f buggies entered: Gumby, 
louette, Stiletto, Shadow.
[hnological developments: Fast rubber, 
push teams. Jet propulsion.
I look for Sweepstakes: Aiming to break 
lise record. Outside possibility at top six. 
ving a good time.
nners: Beta to win, Pika and Sigma Nu
Pi Kappa Alpha
ms of buggies entered: Godzilla, Mach 
Bullet, Breathless.
\hnological developments: Push bars. 
\look for Sweepstakes: Near the top. 
|a and Sigma Nu will be tough. 
mers: Beta, Sigma Nu, CIA and Pika.
Pi Lambda Phi 
us of buggies entered: Legend, Falcon,
Miss Budweiser.
Technological developments: Improved 
braking system.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Surprised recent
ly. Hoping to be in top ten.
Winners: Pika. Audreys back in Mach I. 
Sigma Nu and Beta.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Names of buggies entered: Hustler, In
trepid, Limo.
Technological developments: Square 
wheels.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Five seconds bet
ter than last year (2:23 in 84).
Winners: Pika, Sigma Nu, Beta.
Sigma Nu
Names of buggies entered: Lemur, Colugo, 
Yama-bachi.
Technological developments: Nothing dif
ferent.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Well be close. 
Winners: Pika, Beta, and Sigma Nu. 
Theta Xi
Names of buggies entered: Vapor, Rapier, 
Little Nip, Sabre.
Technological developments: Sticking to 
basics.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Maybe top ten. 
Winners: Beta, Sigma Nu.
A Theta Xi pusher runs hill five with relative ease.
Young and old alike enjoy the rides on the Midway, which opens at 4:30 Thursday
Concerts abound at 
this year's Carnival
51BE The New Rhythm and Blues Quar.et ill perform this weekend.
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Staffwriter
Its especially hard to concentrate on 
schoolwork as the nice weather approaches. 
We all need a break from work, and Spring 
Carnival is our chance to live it up.
Understandably, CMU is not exactly the 
pleasure palace of the world, considering the 
amount of pressure on us all. Nevertheless, 
this years Spring Carnival has an entertain
ment line-up that's sure to get the campus 
rocking. The entertainment begins, weather 
permitting, on April 19 at 7:00 p.m.. at the 
football stadium. There will be no excuses 
not to come out when you hear whos play
ing. The main show will be put on by 
NRBQ, One of Americas most unusual and 
highly praised rock and roll bands. Open
ing the show will be Denny Dent and His 
Two Fisted Art Attack and following NRBQ 
will be 14 Karat Soul. In case of rain, the 
concerts will be held in the Gym.
The New Rhythm and Blues Quartet, 
better known as NRBQ, is a popular club 
band whose styles include rock, jazz, pop, 
swing, and bop. Naturally, they are hard to 
categorize, but critics describe their shows 
as the best theyve seen. The Soho News calls 
them the greatest live band available to the 
paying public. Well, students dont have to 
worry about paying, because the concert is 
free.
Opening the show is Denny Dent am His 
Two Fisted Art Attack. He has played with 
such headliners as U2, David Bowie, and the 
B52s. His show is unique at combining 
music, dance, and paint on the stage with 
his oversized canvases. Using both hands to 
paint as he leaps to reach the top of his 8 
foot square canvas, he has painted master
pieces of such superstars as Jimi Hendrix, 
Bruce Springsteen, Neil Young, and Prince. 
Dennys act was sparked by the death of John 
Lennon. He painted a four foot tall portrait 
of Lennon in minutes while performing on 
stage as a tribute to his music.
In addition to these acts. 14 Karat Soul, 
an up-and-coming a capella blues group, is 
performing. They have performed with The 
Stray Cats and The Honeydrippefs. as well 
as others.
In addition to the above performances. 
AB Concerts is proud to announce Chris 
Bliss' "A Concert for the Eves." Chris Bliss 
is the worlds only known high-tech, electric
This is a band that can on
ly be truly appreciated live, 
where dizzying musician
ship and unpredictability 
has made some of the best 
concerts in my life a 
guaranteed good time.
- Paul Yamada 
NEW YORK ROCKER
rock-and-roll juggler. Chris is billed as the 
final event of the 1985 Spring Carnival, on 
Saturday, April 20, at 8:30 p.m., in the foot
ball stadium. His talent is so individual that 
the Jacksons chose him as their opening act 
for their Victory Tour. He uses popular 
music to enhance his performance by chang
ing lights and tossing balls in time with the 
music. Bliss concert is a special experience 
that will end the entertainment with a bang.
Students will be dancing on the football 
field as the entertainment gets underway. 
This year, the groups are geared to get the 
audience involved in sights, sounds, and 
special effects. The activities board has out
done themselves with the quality acts theyve 
arranged for CMU students. Whether you 
come to listen, to watch, or to dance, the 
Spring Carnival 85 entertainment round up 
has you in mind. So, leave whatever youre 
doing behind, and dont miss CMUs enter
tainment outdoors.

---------------------------------------------------

ABC Concerts presents 
N R B Q
with special guests 
Denny Dent 
 14 Karat Soul 
Friday, April 19
7:00 pm 
Tech Field 
Admission Free
Rain Location: CMU Gym
WRCT presents the NRBQ
Special:
a 40 minute show featuring a 
conversation with NRBQ's 
guitarist Al Anderson and music j
spanning the 15-year history.
The show can be heard on 88.3 
WRCT-FM.
Thursday April 18 at 2:00pm
Funded By Activitie
