Pika sets new sweepstakes record!
Volume 80, Number 26
April 22, 1980TARTAN
Camegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Space sought for robotics
by Jim Balsom
The university is making plans to house 
the preliminary stages of the Robotics In
stitute . In order to accomplish this, several 
offices and departments must be shuffled 
around to create the necessary space.
Over the past two months, a committee 
consisting of several people, including Pres
ident Cyert, Vice-Presidents Van Horn and 
Schatz, Deans Jordan and Berg, and Robot
ics Institute head Raj Reddy, have been 
meeting to discuss various ways of creating 
the 15,000 square feet the Robotics In
stitute will need.
Several courses of action had been dis
cussed by the committee members and 
last Monday Van Horn outlined what was 
considered by the administration to be the 
most feasable plan. Robotics will have 
5,000 square feet from the area currently 
being expanded near the E&S library on 
the fourth floor of Science Hall, and an 
additional 2,000 square feet will be made 
available by moving Administrative Sys
tems, which now occupies part of the 
eighth floor of Science Hall, to the second 
floor of Warner Hall. The remaining 8000
Tuition hike planned
square feet needed to adequately house the 
new research project will be created by 
reassigning space currently used by other 
departments. This will come from other 
moves in a domino arrangement. Dean 
Earle Swank and the Office of Student 
Affairs will probably be moved to Skibo 
where the information desk and Anne 
Witchner (Director of Student Activities) 
are now located. Witchner and company 
would then be moved to the offices above 
the information desk where Activities 
Board, University Graphics, and the 
machine room are now located. No plans 
have been set for the location of the infor
mation desk or the machine room; how
ever, AB and University Graphics would be 
moved to office space in the lower level of 
Skibo. According to Van Horn, the two 
organizations would divide up the space 
available from the old Mens Commuter 
Room which is now used as a custodial 
lounge and an additional office by moving 
Off-Campus Housing out of its Skibo of
fice, possibly to the Housing Office in 
Morewood Gardens. Nobody has suggested 
where a new area for the custodians would 
be located.
Further moves outlined by the plan in
clude the possibility of moving Physical 
Plant offices out of Porter Hall and into 
trailers. That would free space which could 
then be renovated and used as academic 
space, possibly to be filled by some present 
occupants of Science Hall. This would 
create more space for Robotics.
Several people affected by the moves 
say they do not know what the effect will 
be on the services their departments prov
ide. Anne Witchner said that if her office 
is located away from the information desk, 
direct supervision would be impossible and 
would prove inconvenient for those people 
using the desk. One of the desks main ad
vantages was the immediate accessibility it 
provides students to Witchner and her 
staff.
Moving Off-Campus Housing to Morewood has also raised some questions. Hav
ing two competitive operations sharing 
the same office space would be like putcontinued on page 6
by Susan Borg
The Tuition Committee presented its 
report last Saturday recommending a $700 
tuition increase for the 1981-82 school 
year. Committee chairperson, Dr. Richard 
Moore of the Math Department, began his 
report saying that the committee had 
mixed feelings all the way, working from 
data [on income and enrollment, the histo
ry of income and expenses, and the tuition 
history at CMU and its competitors! and 
fully realizing that they may be putting 
some undergraduates in a bind.
A large portion of the discussion was 
subjective and personal, dealing with two 
major areas:
whether or not enrollment of quality 
students is inelastic with respect to tuition 
level and;
the feeling among students on finan
cial aid that they had already reached the 
limit of their resources.
On the first question, the committee 
found evidence for both views: a complete
ly unrealistic increase will drive away stu
dents. For the range of increases sufficient 
for the 1981-82 year, however, the com
mittee did not find enough substance in 
the research on either side to give it any 
importance in its recommendation.
The committee did not reflect the 
second question on the limited resources of 
students on financial aid directly in their 
report, but, they feel it is an important 
message to the university on the morale of 
students. The report states: If students 
perceive Financial Aid as an aggressive, 
imaginative operation which will go to 
extreme lengths to meet student crises, 
then students will weather the increased 
cost. If not, we are at a point where some 
students will simply finish their career else
where.
To the committee, an examination of 
recent tuition history at CMU and other 
schools indicates that an increase of any
thing less than $800 would be consistent 
with past CMU patterns, the patterns of 
the competition and inflationary trends. 
The idea from our recent past raises every 
two years was rejected with little discus
sion, states the report. The resulting 
catch-up raise of, say, fifteen hundred
dollars in 1982 would be a public relations 
disaster, the committee concluded.
The committee recognizes the expense 
side of the problem with increasing utilities 
cost. We are also aware that faculty and 
staff salary increases for 1980-81 are 
unusually high for CMU. We might reason
ably expect them to be at least that high in 
1981-82, the committee states.
When President Cyert asked the com
mittee members and the student leaders 
who were asked to attend Saturdays 
meeting to present their views, it was clear 
that the students favor an increase of no 
more than $500, while the other commit
tee members believe that an increase of 
$700 or more would be more appropriate.
Dr. Richard VanHom, Vice President 
for Management, stated that he would like 
to see a $1500 increase, however he realiz
ed that this would be an unreasonable one
year increase. Student Government Presi
dent Ralph Sherman stated that he could 
not, in good conscience, vote for an in
crease of more than $500.
President Cyert said, I have always had 
a lot of sympathy for (the students) 
position and maybe that is a part of the 
reason why we are so low. But,  he con
tinued, we might be so low that we are 
hurting ourselves with respect to faculty 
salaries. Cyert added that some people 
continued on page 5
SAE's winning booth 'Broadway" (above) and PlKA's record breaking buggy team are some of 
Carnival's highlights.

---------------------------------------------------

Raise the quality
President Cyert believes that selecting a university is sim
ilar to buying a car  the more expensive the price tag, the 
ibetter the car (or at least so it seems in the mind of the 
buyer). Dr. Cyert believes that since CMUs tuition rate is 
lower than many of our competitors  MIT, Harvard, and 
Cornell, for example  people will think CMU is an inferior 
school. Since this is no way for people to think, he feels 
that the only alternative is to raise CMUs tuition to the level 
of the Ivy League and other first-rate institutions. This 
would, the argument goes, make people think that because 
CMU costs as much as the Ivy schools, the education would 
be of the same quality.
Perhaps we have no right to complain  we who are 
economics majors should stand in awe at such a fine display 
of free-market thought, and merely wait (but not hold our 
breath) for a new equilibrium between tuition and those 
students willing to pay it. But then, some of us feel the 
same way about OPEC price increases (ignoring the appro
priate amount of pity and understanding deserved by the oil 
states in light of their unique situation, which perhaps does 
not apply to those in Warner Hall).With oil, the price of a barrel keeps going up, while the 
quality remains fairly consistent. In past weeks we have 
described the quality of a CMU education, which we have 
a tough time describing as consistently good.
Yet Dr. Cyert believes that Carnegie-Mellon is one of the 
top schools in the country. We are in a position to chal
lenge MIT, Stanford, and Harvard, he says. But tuition has 
got to be raised, he explains, because our faculty salaries are 
lagging.
We quite agree with this latter observation. A report dis
tributed at a Faculty Senate meeting earlier this year 
described CMU faculty salaries in 1978-79 as compared to 
other schools, and painted a rather ugly picture. An aver
age CMU full professor is paid $29,000  not quite the 
$34,000 a Stanford professor is paid, or even the $33,900 
an MIT professor is paid. Cornell, supposedly our equivalent, 
manages to pay its full professors $31,900.
Yes, CMU definitely needs to raise faculty salaries. But 
what has been done with the tuition that students have already been paying? It doesnt pay for things like the Marg
aret Morrison Apartments; that comes from different 
sources (the same sources that paid in 1979-80 the 
$3,650,000 CMU spent in Special Projects, whatever they 
are).
How can we honestly believe that tuition should be 
increased $700 or even more? It takes more qualities than 
high tuition to make CMU comparable with the afore
mentioned institutions; it even takes more than proper 
faculty salaries. Maybe the Administration should think 
about raising these qualities instead of student tuition.
Remember us!
The Robotics Institute is coming to town and once again 
the Administration has demonstrated their characteristic 
lack of concern for students. It seems that once the Univers
ity realized the dollar potential of a Robotics Institute, they 
agreed to take on the responsibility without knowing where 
they were going to put the thing.
With a little thought and debate (that did not involve 
student input, of course) the Administration arrived at an 
answer to their space problem: shuffle some offices around, 
cut back sbme space that current offices are using, and the 
Robotics Institute will have a home.
It seems painless, but even the most uninterested observer 
cant help but notice that the services that will be hurt 
belong to the students. Financial Aid will be crammed into 
less space; the Registrar will be operating out of crowded 
quarters; Student Affairs will be moved, in its entirety, to a 
much smaller area in Skibo; and Activities Board and 
University Graphics will be stuffed into a closet-like room in 
our student activities center where student activits have 
lowest priority.
As if it werent bad enough that students were not con
sulted in the first place, once the TARTAN became aware 
of the situation we received conflicting accounts from 
various members of the Administration. Dr. Van Horn 
claimed that he was presented with the space proposal by 
Deans Berg and Jordan. The Deans promptly informed us 
that Van Horn, along with President Cyert, was a member 
of the committee that drew up the space proposal. The an
swers to many other questions varied from person to person, 
and it became painfully obvious that students were again 
being shut out  shut out of university decision-making and 
the consideration that should be due any such consumer.
This University spends so much time harping on the 
pursuit of excellence  the Robotics Institute can contrib
ute to this pursuit  but the Administration consistently 
fails to realize that you cannot have true excellence until 
you recognize some basic tenets of dealing with people. 
CMU students must be consulted on matters that affect 
them, and the Robotics Institute is clearly affecting us all. 
This University can never achieve greatness until its students 
feel that thcty are at least receiving a fair shake.
*
Theuhniv rsstry
TUITION FOLLIES 
Dinner/Dance 
APRIL 22 1980 
MENU S
Roasted Leg 
of Student. 
with Sauteed
______Empty Wallets
MAIN 
EVENT:
Watch Dickie empty 
your Parents' wall
ets for the 8th 
year in a row.
TICKETS AVAILABLE
AT THE DOOR.________
D inner-100.00 
Dance-100.00
letters
Kije! sounds off
Editor:
Without taking issue with the 
individual praises or criticisms put 
forth in the review of Kije! in the 
April 15th edition of the TAR
TAN, (an action that is neither 
professional nor becoming of 
inyone associated with any mu
sical or dramatic production), we 
would like to state our disappro
val of the form and circumstance 
of the TARTAN review.
In particular, we take excep
tion to the disparaging comments 
made in the opening of the re
view. While CMU does indeed 
have a fine pre-professional the
atrical troupe, ScotchnSoda, an 
admittedly amateur group, does
not wish to be reviewed on any 
different standards from other 
theatrical productions on or off 
campus. All productions must 
eventually stand on their art
istic conception and whether they 
are entertaining. In this, Scotchn 
Soda, Drama department produc
tions, community theatre, and 
professional theatre must stand or 
fall alike. Either a show is enter
taining or it is not; there can be 
no room in a review for special 
considerations based upon 
whether the work is vocational 
or avocational in nature.
Secondly, the cast are not 
simply out to have a good time. 
While many members of the cast 
crew and technial staff are enjoying themselves in the course of 
this production of Kije!, their 
principle objective is to produce 
and perform an entertaining show. 
We will only be satisfied if it is 
our audience which is having a 
good time.
Apparently, because the re
viewers considered the show too 
non-professional they felt that it 
did not require the courtesy of a 
professional review. This is unfair 
not only to the members of the 
cast, crew and staff of Kije!, but 
to the readers of the TARTAN, 
and to the level of professionalism 
to which the TARTAN aspires.
As we are sure the reviewers 
would agree any dramatic re
view ought to fully discuss the
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 24 
April 15,1980
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor:
Contributing Editors:
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
Associate Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Jim Bai som 
Renee Rosenfeld 
Richard Gorelick 
Michael Brzustowicz,
Jean Pellegrini 
Kan Kulak
Susan Borg 
Smita Pai 
Karen Stevens 
Doug Kirsop 
Ed Zayas
Sports Editor: 
Dossier Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Wesley Seeley 
Lynn Epstein 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Hart
News: Jeanne Abmayr, Assistant Editor; Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed 
Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Dan Horgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, 
Elliot Ohlberg. Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry, 
Dave Kirby, Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Rabineau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Smits, Karen Stevens"
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser.
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak. Assistant Manager; Michael Brzustowicz.
Photography: Larry Duffee. Jenny Ladd.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206

---------------------------------------------------

opinions
Kennedy and Chappaquidick: Myths and realities
The following opinion on Ted 
Kennedy and Chappadquidick was 
written by Barton Levenson, a 
sophomore in H&SS.
On June 18th, 1969, Senator 
Edward Kennedy (D-MA) was at
tending a party near Edgartown, 
at Marthas Vineyard, Massachussetts. The party was being given 
by Joseph Gargan, a cousin of 
Kennedys, for six former secre
taries in Robert Kennedys presi
dential campaign. At approximat
ely 11 PM, one of the secretaries, 
Mary Jo Kopechne, complained of 
not feeling well and asked Kenne
dy to drive her to her motel. The 
motel, Lawrence Cottage, had 
been rented by Gargan for the' 
secretaries, and was located on 
Chappaquidick island, accessible 
by a ferry. Kennedy started to 
take her to the rendezvous point 
for the ferry, but instead took a 
wrong turn (right instead of left). 
The road was not lighted, and 
Kennedy, who had been drinking 
at the party, was driving too fast. 
His car went off the side of the 
bridge into a tidal pool and landed 
upside-down in eight feet of 
water.
Kennedys doctor, Robert 
Watt, who examined Kennedy 
after the accident, stated that the 
Senator had suffered a half-inch 
abrasion and hematoma over the 
right mastoid (a bone in the 
head), and numerous other small 
injuries including a big spongy 
swelling at the top of his head 
where it struck the windshield. In 
Watts' opinion, Kennedy also 
exhibited a temporary loss of 
consciousness, for which im
pairment of judgement and con
fused behavoir are symtoms
consistent with an injury of the 
character sustained by the pa
tient.
At any rate, although Kennedy 
was able to struggle out of the car, 
Kopechne was not. Kennedy 
made it to the bridge, rested 
briefly, and then, realizing that he 
was alone, turned and went back 
into the water. He tried six times 
to get to the level of the car door, 
but could not either keep himself 
down long enough or locate the 
door handle. In a while, he gave 
up, and swam back to the bridge.
Kennedy says that one of the 
reasons he failed was that ,the 
tides were too strong to fight. A 
recent article in Readers Digest 
notes that a study by the US Navy 
shows the tides to have been just 
as strong as Kennedy says they 
were. Nonetheless, the Digest 
suggests that a determined 
swimmer could have made it. I 
dont know what they consider a 
determined swimmer. Surely a 
man who has just been in an 
accident, whose back was broken 
in a plane crash five years earlier, 
does not fit into that category.
Kennedy pulled himself 
onto the road, got up and started 
walking. There was a lighted 
house by the side of the road at 
which he could have stopped and 
called for help. Instead, he walked 
past it and continued on, a mile 
back to what was left of the par
ty. There he was met by Gargan 
and Paul Markham, a Kennedy 
attorney, who asked him what 
had happened. He told them .and 
the three of them drove back to 
the site of the accident, where 
Markham and Gargan attempted 
to save Kopechne. Neither of 
them were successful, although
Markham did get close enough to 
cut his forearm open on a ragged 
edge of fender plate. They gave 
up, and Kennedy, inexplicably, 
dove back into the water and 
swam back, almost drowning 
again, while Markham and Gargan 
drove back.
Although Markham had re
peatedly told Kennedy that he 
had to report the accident at 
once, Kennedys first action on 
getting back was to fall asleep for 
12 hours. It was local police who, 
after finding the submerged car, 
finally phoned Kennedy. There 
was an inquest and atrial. It was 
ruled that Kopechnes death had 
been accidental, but that Kennedy 
was guilty of involuntary man
slaughter. His Massachusetts driv
ing license was revoked for a 
year, suspended sentence.
With the objective facts on the 
record, let me try to dispose of 
some myths surrounding this 
tragic incident.
THERE WAS A COVER-UP. 
Wrong. There is no evidence 
that any such thing ever hap
pened. Kennedys failure to report 
the incident was solely the result 
of his condition at the time. The 
sentence was as light as it was, not 
because Kennedy money paid off 
the judge, but because no heavier 
sentence was justifiable in view of 
the facts. The suggestion that 
Kennedy failed to stop at the 
house because he was trying to 
prevent anyone from finding out 
about the accident is another 
piece of nonsense. He passed the 
house because he did not notice 
that it was there. Again, this was 
caused by his physical state at the 
time. To lggest that Kennedy 
deliberately and cold-bloodedly
avoided getting help for Kopechne 
so as to conceal the entire inci
dent is ludicrous. Could he also 
have concealed the overturned car 
by the side of the bridge? If so. 
how? Obviously, someone would 
have found out about the accident 
sooner or later--police, passerby, 
someone. Eventually Kopechnes 
parents might also have been 
expected to wonder where their 
daughter was. But people dont 
think of these things when they 
formulate conspiracy theories.
KENNEDY WAS HAVING AN 
AFFAIR WITH KOPECHNE. 
Wrong. There is no evidence of 
this, either. It has been suggested 
that Kennedy took the wrong 
turn because he was looking for a 
place to stop and make out, but if 
this is true, why didnt he stop on 
the dirt road he was on? Why did 
he continue to drive?
Furthermore, the secretaries 
back at the party were expecting 
Kennedy to return shortly so that 
they, too, could be driven back to 
Lawrence Cottage. It would not 
have made sense to raise their sus
picions by coming back late.
KOPECHNE WAS PREG
NANT, THE AUTOPSY RE
VEALED. Wrong again. First of 
all, there was no autopsy, and 
second, the standard physical ex
amination showed that she was 
not pregnant.
KENNEDY MONEY STOP
PED THE AUTOPSY. Wrong again. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kopechne asked that 
there not be an autopsy, and 
their request was agreed on by the 
court.
KOPECHNE DID NOT 
DROWN IN THE ACCIDENT, 
BUT SUFFOCATED SLOWLY. 
Despite testimony to this effect
by the highly imaginative diver 
who recovered her body, the 
physical examination indicated 
the opposite. The characteristic 
bloody foam brought up by 
drowning victims had stained 
Kopechnes collar and the back of 
her blouse, for those who enjoy 
speculating about such things.
KENNEDYS STORY BE
FORE AND AFTER THE 
ACCIDENT WAS INCONSIS
TENT. No, it wasnt. He has 
never made an inconsistent 
statement on the subject. The 
story is too simple to be easily 
tampered with.
KENNEDY LEFT THE CAR 
BEFORE IT CRASHED AND 
LET KOPECHNE DRIVE IT OFF 
THE BRIDGE. Although a certain 
strange paperback book gave this 
theory popularity for awhile, it 
has since lost backing among the 
conspiracy crowd. Suffice to say 
that all the evidence is against it.
KENNEDYS INTEGRITY 
WAS SHOWN TO BE SEVERELY 
DEFICIENT BY THE INCIDENT. 
I dont think so. Kennedy did 
what he could to save Kpechnes 
life and cooperated with the in
vestigation as soon as he was in 
a condition to do so.
We would all like to think that, 
had WE been there, we could have 
saved Mary Jo Kopechne. The fact 
is that no one could have. One 
does not usually behave he
roically after a car accident, es
pecially if one is tired and hurt 
and has a broken back and prob
ably a concussion and have to 
fight a 13-knot tide to look for a 
door handle six feet underwater 
which you cant see. Kennedys 
critics should try it themselves 
some time.
MIT vs. CMU: 'Never the twain shall meet'
The following opinion was writ
ten by Gene Mitchell, a graduate 
student in CIT.
1 came to CMU this past fall 
with a fresh S.B. (equivalent to a
B.S. at most colleges) 
from MIT. Since then, I have 
heard of people in this schools 
administration making compar
isons between CMU and MIT. I 
have, up till now, suppressed the 
urge to laugh. Now that some are 
trying to use it as a rationale for 
raising tuition here, it is no longer 
funny. For the benefit of all those 
involved, I have decided to give a 
short discourse on why MIT is 
MIT and CMU is CMU and never 
the twain shall meet, unless this 
administration seriously reorgan
izes its priorities.
One of the biggest differences 
between CMU and MIT is not one 
of money or quality of students, 
but attitude. More money could 
not change this place into an MIT 
any more than black magic could. 
MIT treats its students like adults 
and is generally concerned with 
people.
The MIT administration trusts 
hs students in ways that would 
make the CMU administration 
cringe. In return, MIT students 
ise to the responsibility. For 
example, registration is run by Al
pha Phi Omega in a single day (for 
which they are paid) and usually 
goes without a hitch. The Student 
Center (a real one) is run mostly 
by the Student Center Commit
tee, a student organization. Stud
ent organizations may keep their 
own financial books provided 
they pass an annual MIT audit. 
Students are included on all stan
ding faculty committees and are 
nominated to these committees 
by the student government. Im
provements to the main computer 
system are often wrought by stu
dent minds and hands.
On the academic side (which is 
part of the reason most of us are 
at school), MIT students are given 
many options in all majors. Un
dergraduates are invited from day 
one to participate in faculty re
search (this includes research in 
the non-sciences) by the Under
graduate Research Opportunities 
Program. They can take as many 
courses as they like, as long as 
they are doing reasonably well (as 
opposed to having to demonstrate 
that they are working well before 
being allowed to overload.) 
Furthermore, they are allowed to 
take whatever courses they find 
interesting, as long as they feci 
they can do the work. The grading
system is what keeps people out 
of courses they cannot perform 
in, not artificial divisions between 
colleges. In fact, the division bet
ween schools is so de-emphasized 
at MIT that it is often difficult to 
say off hand what school a par
ticular major is in.
MIT doesnt stop with respect 
for student abilities. Ability is 
assumed in each student; other
wise, the student would not have 
been admitted. MIT also shows 
concern for the students and hum
anity in general, which could not, 
in fairness, be said about CMU.
The advising program at MIT is 
one of its strongest points. Every
one has an advisor to whom he or 
she can turn if unsure about any
thing. Changing advisors for any 
reason is simple and painless. And, 
if having such an available refer
ence resource is not enough, the 
vast majority of professors at MIT 
have an open door policy which 
allows anyone having a legitimate 
reason to walk in, without an ap
pointment, and talk. I have wal
ked into the offices of professors I 
didnt know many times to talk 
about their research, their courses, 
or what their field is really like. 
Their doors are always literally, 
physically, open, which removes
at least one "psychological barrier 
that is overpowering at CMU. The 
administration, while somewhat 
more formal, is also responsive. I 
had a charge removed from my 
MIT account once when it was my 
word against theirs, just for the 
asking. Try that at CMU some
time.
The concern that is manifest at 
MIT goes beyond academics, how
ever, as MIT is truly dedicated to 
preparing one for life. MIT fields 
32 varsity and sub-varsity teams as 
well as having an extremely exten
sive intramural program and a 
broad physical education prog
ram. There are over 100 student 
activities which must ultimately 
get some form of support from 
MIT. MIT is the home of the Un
ion of Concerned Scientists, 
whose name has become synon
ymous with concern for the prop
er use of science and technology. 
Students are constantly reminded 
through mailings and the campus 
media of important deadlines, ev
ents, and items of interest.
One would think that since col
lege students spend % of the year 
in a dorm room, housing would be 
of great concern to someone going 
to college, and thus to colleges in 
general. CMUs housing system
ends up segregating the classes and 
providing less than optimal living 
conditions, of variable quality, at 
a fixed price. At MIT, freshmen 
do not choose their housing sight 
unseen, but wait until they are on 
campus, one week before every
one except the Residence/Orien
tation (R/O) committee. 90% of 
them get their first choice in hous
ing. All houses are balanced with 
respect to class, with better ac
comodations in better dorms sen
sibly costing slightly more. R/O 
week (also Rush Week for the 
Greeks on campus) is run every 
year by students in cooperation 
with the Freshmen Deans Office.
In addition to all these dif
ferences, there is one more that 
makes MIT someplace special and 
CMU a diploma mill. At MIT, stu
dents are encouraged to be innov
ative in all aspects of life, includ
ing academics, while at CMU it is 
difficult to alter any aspect of any 
set program. Substitution of simi
lar courses for each other or 
placement for courses on the basis 
of real knowledge is routine at 
MIT. It is easy to design your own 
major at MIT if it is substantive. 
There are usually many options in 
any major. Even the tests tend to 
require synthesis, where the tests I

---------------------------------------------------

T.G.I.F.
Sponsored by
THE GRADUATE STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION
FRIDAY, APRIL 25 
4:30 P.M. 
FIFTH FLOOR 
SCIENCE HALL LOBBY
(OUTSIDE IF WEATHER PERMITS)
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
have had here require mere regur
gitation. MITs innovation lab 
puts its money where its mouth is 
by supporting the development of 
student ideas into reality while 
the students retain the rights. In 
short, MIT is flexible and relative
ly unstructured, while CMU is 
structured and rigid. This leads to 
easy stereotyping which I believe 
is the root of the eternal H&SS vs. 
CIT Vars in the TARTAN.
Notice that I have not yet men
tioned physical facilities or sup
plies. If I so desired, I could more 
than triple the length of this essay 
with those types of examples. For 
one, I never saw an MIT professor 
forced to leave a lecture hall to go 
scrounging for a piece of chalk. 
Getting access to the computer at
CMU during the term is worse 
than at MIT at the end of the year 
when all the projects are due.
The telling differences are not 
ones of money but of attitude. 
Fear of change is making CMU
opinions
'orse A
stagnate. If CMU aspires to attain 
a reputation like MIT, it must be 
willing to make the necessary 
changes in areas like attitude and 
not use money as an excuse.
three bases of dramatic producttions: material, performance and 
technical staging. In all three 
areas, the TARTAN review was 
woefully dificient. In a musical 
such as Kije!, material ought to 
be evaluated by the reviewer in 
terms of dialogue, lyrics and 
music separately an not as an 
indiscriminant whole. In perform
ance, acting, choreography and 
voice and orchestration should 
each be discussed. It is ironic, 
but perhaps indicative of the re
viewers preconceptions of what 
might be expected from an 
amateur production, that there is 
no discussion of the acting in the 
entire review of this dramatic 
production.
The review was also lacking in 
its evaluation of technical aspects 
of the production: set, costuming, 
lighting and make-up as well as 
special effects. In particular, the 
unusual lighting and make-up was 
not discussed at all (favorabley or 
unfavorabley).
In additon to failing to observe 
professional reviewing standards 
by discussing each of the above 
aspects of the production, the re
viewers failed in most cases to 
name those individuals deserving 
of praise or criticism. While we 
understand that the reviewers did 
this to protect individuals who are 
not_ professional or pre-profes
sional from adverse criticism, we 
feel that their intentions were mis
guided. Every performer, director 
and staff member realizes that 
they may be reviewed favorably 
or adversely, and consequently, 
put forth their greatest effort to 
ensure a favorable notice. It is 
only fair to parcel out praise and 
criticism where it is due. For 
this reason, our names are in the 
programs. They should just as 
well be in the TARTAN or any 
other reviews by the media.
One final criticism of the re
view is that the main reviewer did 
not see the entire performance. 
In fact, she left after the first* 
intermission. If indeed, the per
formance was deserving of the 
scorn indicated by this action, 
then an adverse notice rather than 
a mixed review was deserved, and 
the reviewer should have detailed 
her reasons for an early exit. 
It was thus particularly deceptive 
and misguided for the reviewers 
to suggest that the show runs a 
full 3 hours when it actually runs 
considerably less.
In summary we would like 
to reiterate that we do not wish to 
take issue with any criticisms 
made by the reviewers but only 
to protest the lack of considera
tion demonstrated by the way and 
the extent to which the play was 
not reviewed. We hope that the
editors and reviewers take this let
ter in the spirit in which it is in
tended. We wish only to suggest 
that more care and professionalsim could have been put into the 
review. In keeping with the 
spirit of this letter we would 
like to cordially invite the TAR
TAN to review the second set of 
perfomances this week with the 
same care, courtesy and diligence 
given to any other productions. 
We hope that the TARTAN and 
any others who view the pro
duction will find the show enter
taining, an in the final analysis 
of any dramatic presentation, a 
success.
Sincerely,
The Cast, Crew, Technical Staff, 
Writing Staff and Directional 
Staff of Kije! and the 
ScotchnSoda Board 
Polling the Fringe 
Editor:
I want to complain about the 
Tartan write-up for Sweepstakes. 
There is little mention of Fringe 
in a poll taken that had polled all 
the buggy chairmen for the top 
spots. I was not contacted. Some
one did call me for the last week 
in January but that was a long 
time ago, and I never had time to 
return the call. I realize all of this 
is after the fact, but I am still 
pissed. Steven Zirinsky
No, let's just fight...
Editor:
This letter is being written in 
regard to a statement I read 
Fridays TARTAN dealing with 
the candidates for Senate and 
Student Government President. 
Specifically, the statement in 
question was made by Nina 
Houska, a candidate for President, 
and dealt with the idea of the 
GSO and SDC becoming separate 
governing bodies free from 
Senates jurisdiction.
Regardless of what the GSO 
may feel, I must point out to you 
and your readers that SDC has 
never considered such action. We 
are separately funded, as we have 
always been, but are recognized 
by Senate as a representative 
organization. This relationship in 
the past has been a good one and 
we plan to continue with it as 
long as it remains so. I have no 
idea where Miss Houska got the 
notion that SDC was going to 
follow in the GSOs footsteps, 
but I can assure you that, if 
anything, we plan to strengthen: 
our relationship with Senate in 
the interest of bettering campus 
life. I believe many other organi
zations, including the GSO, 
should work with Senate rather 
than against them. Remember,
there is power in numbers. If all 
the campus organizations united 
in a common effort toward im
proving campus life, we would 
accomplish much more than any 
one of us do now. Lets fight 
together the common battle we all 
face rather than fighting each 
other and losing that battle.
Jeffrey L. Pitchford 
President, SDC
Bob Hopesays,Help keep Red Cross
A Public Service ot This Newspaper
& The Advertising Council <ftl

---------------------------------------------------

April 22,1980 - TARTAN - Page 5
Drain pipe breaks in MG
Last Friday night a drain pipe broke 
on the fifth floor of B tower in Morewood 
Gardens. The pipe connected the sink and 
bathtub of the fifth floor bathroom and 
leaked down into rooms on the second, 
their, and fourth floors causing the plaster 
on the ceiling and walls to bubble and 
water to leak through the light fixtures on 
various rooms.
Trouble was reported to maintenance 
last week by the residents on the second 
floor of B tower and Housing investigated 
the situation, but could not discover the 
source of the leaking water.
In addition to causing problems in se
veral rooms in B to^er, the water also 
caused part of the ceiling in the Morewood 
Lobby, near the SDC kitchen, to collapse, 
fortunately when no one was standing 
under that area.
Bill Blue, the supervisor of the Hill 
area dorms said that residents in the af
fected rooms should unplug outlets and re
move light bulbs until all the water had 
dried up. No one was sure how much water 
might still be between floors, but Blue 
stated that the wiring should be in con
duits, and protected from the water, 
but he couldnt be sure that this was the 
case.
Vali-Dine refunds set
Food Service will deactivate student 
Vali-Dine accounts after supper on Mon
day. May 12. However, account holders 
may close out their accounts, without a 
$25 cancellation fee, beginning on Mon
day, April 28. Students who plan to use 
their Vali-Dine accounts during the sum
mer, should notify the Vali-Dine office by 
May 12.
Food Service will calculate the amount 
of each refund by reducing (dividing) the 
current account balance by a factor of
1.1765. This is the reverse of the calcu
lation that increased each person's balance 
by multiplaying each account deposit by
1.1765.
Account holders who wish to use their 
Vali-Dine accounts through supper on 
Monday, May 12. may do so without 
any special arrangements. Once each 
account is closed on May 12, the refund
able balance will be transferred as a credit 
to the individuals student account, adminis
tered by the Cashiers Office. This credit is 
available for refund if the Cashiers Office 
receives the request and an address for 
mailing the check by May 31. Thereafter, 
this amount will appear as a credit entry 
on next years student invoice.
Account holders who choose to close 
their accounts once the S25 cancellation 
fee is eliminated, may receive refunds while 
they are still on campus. To do this. 
Food Service will operate two special reObservations:
fund stations daily, except Saturday and 
Sunday, in Morewood Gardens between 
2:00 PM and 6:00 PM from Monday, 
April 28 through Thursday, May 8. We 
will process refunds according to the 
following schedule,by last name:
Each persons Food Service l.D. or 
temporary card will be used to read each 
balance and close the account. UFS will 
process only close-out transactions (not 
partial withdrawals) starting April 28. 
For refunds up to S50, a cancellaton 
voucher will be issued for an immediate 
cash refund in the Cashiers Office. For 
refunds over S50, UFS will deliver each 
days vouchers to the Cashiers Office by 
1:00 PM two days after the voucher is 
-written. Again, the Cashiers Office will 
mail refund checks to those students 
who request this service.
If there are unpaid obligations on other 
portions of a students account, the Cashier 
must first apply Food Service credits to 
cover those other obligations before that 
office can pay any refund, either in cash or 
by check.
Monday, April 28 A through M
Tuesday, April 29 N through Z
Wednesday, April 30open to all 
Thursday, May 1 N through Z
Friday, May 2 A through M
Monday, May 5 through Thursday, 
May 8 open to all
JDL chapter in Pittsburgh
by Mark Kennet
The Jewish Defense League (JDL) is a 
radical militant Jewish group founded in 
the early 1970s by Rabbi Meyer Kahane 
of New York. The Leagues aim, according 
to Kahanes book, Never Again! and litera
ture written by the organization, is to pro
vide Jews in America with the survival 
tools held by Israelis so that perceived 
threats to Jewish existence could be 
thwarted. The books title, which is also 
the Leagues slogan, refers to the vow 
taken by all Israeli soldiers upon their in
duction  enlistees swear that Massada 
shall not fall again. (Massada was the 
scene of the last Jewish resistance to the 
Roman conquest of Judea in 70 C.E.  
and remains a symbol of courage and 
devotion to freedom for Israelis).
Throughout its short history, the JDL 
has otten been in die national spotlight, 
most notably in its novel protests against 
the Soviet Unions harassment of Jewish 
citizens. In one such incident, JDL mem
bers purchased all the tickets to a Russian 
cultural function, and left the performers 
an empty hall to close their performance.
I he JDL was also involved in clashes with 
hanian demonstrators in Berkeley, Califor
nia. alter the hostages were taken in 
Tehran.
The following is an interview with 
nathan Sachs, a University of Pittsburgh 
Ashman English major who has been atA whole about one half inch in diameter caused the water leak in MorewoOd's B tower lest Sunday.
Tuition hike planned
continued from page 1
judge a school by the tuition, and he 
compared the purchase of an automobile 
to the selection of a university: car buyers 
would consider a car with a $10,000 price 
tag to be better than a $8,000 automobile.
We are one of the top schools in the 
country; we are in a position to challenge 
MIT, Stanford, and Harvard, but weve 
taken some of the hardship from students 
by having lagging faculty salaries, Cyert 
said. We cannot maintain ourselves as a
first rate institution without strong taculty 
salaries, he added.
Dan Nichols, President of the United 
Fraternal Organization pointed out that 
those other institutions tend to attract a 
different class of peopleCMU tends to 
attract middle class people.
Cyert concluded by saying that on the 
$500-$700 scale the increase will probably 
be closer to $700. We hope that well be 
able to get enough financial aid so that 
those on financial aid will not be hurt.
Escort service improved
Several improvements are planned for 
CMUs escort service next year. Among 
them is the purchase of a new seven pas
senger Volkswagen bus exclusively for 
their use.
The service has really caught on, said 
Lt. Castelli of Campus Police. Since it 
started, the number of transports has in
creased from 300 to 1800 passengers per 
month. The new van will allow the police 
vehicle, which they use now, to be avail
able for emergencies. As before, the athle
tic departments van will serve as a backup.
Castelli also plans to hire seven additio
nal students next year as dispatchers, 
though the service will still be run through 
Campus Police.
However, according to Castelli, the sys
tem is being abused. Initially provided to 
get people home safely at night, students 
have called for rides to off-campus parties, 
etc. To prevent this in the future, Castelli 
is looking for a way to provide an ID for 
those commuters who utilize the service. 
He feels that, Its a good system, but we 
have to avoid its misuse to better serve 
diose who need it.
tempting to organize a local chapter of the 
JDL.
Q: What is the purpose of the JDL in Pitts
burgh?
Sachs: It is the same as in any other city. 
We want to see that the rights of Jews are 
protected, our heritage preserved, and 
negative propaganda countered. If necess
ary, we will use physical defense.
Q:How do you react to charges that the 
JDL is racist, prejudiced against blacks? 
Sachs: Over the years, blacks and Jews 
have had good relations. We feel hurt by 
blacks like Jesse Jackson embracing the 
Palestine Liberation Organization which we 
feel is a racist organization, a counterpart to 
the Ku Klux Klan. We feel much in com
mon with blacks; we do not feel that 
squabbling amongst ourselves is helpful 
while fighting our common racist enemies. 
Q: What signs do you see of that?
Sachs: Well, for example, not long ago the 
Bnai Brith Hillel was raided and covered 
with swastikas, and signs saying, We 
shall rise again.
Q: Do you feel that your program of sim
ple answers to complex questions is any
better than the Nazis?
Sachs: We dont believe in decimation of 
any other group. We dont use violence 
unless we are forced to; we do not violate 
legal channels unless they have been pre
viously violated by someone else
Carnival's Here
Memories so dear 
It's been a great year.
Remember it 
in the 1980 Thistle.
Just a tew left 
on order 
at the
Skibo Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN - April 22,1980
CMU and Simon organize support for Sakharov
On April 23, at 8 PM, an expert on So
viet affairs from Amnesty International, 
Joshua Rubenstein, will speak in the Skibo 
ballroom. His subject will be Soviet dissi
dents and their struggle for human rights. 
He has written a book on the subject to be 
published this summer by Beacon Press.
Amnesty International is an apolitical 
organization which monitors the numbers 
and conditions of political prisoners 
throughout the world, and organizes sup
port groups which work for the better 
treatment or release of individual prisoners. 
The lecture, sponsored by the student 
Activities Board lecture committee, is free 
and open to the public.
Student Senate has passed a resolution 
to print 500 postcards with Andrei Sak
harovs name and address, and encourages 
the entire campus community to join in 
sending the cards to Sakharov, supporting 
him and asking him to come visit CMU. 
People should say something about them
selves in the cards such_as campus organi
zations theyre in, major or field.
Sakharov is a Nobel-prize winning physi
cist who is a leader of the Soviet human 
rights movement. He has recently been sent 
to internal exile in the special closed city 
of Gorky, set up to keep the inhabitants 
from any contact with the outside world. 
Sakharov, in his last, clandestine, message 
to the West, asked for help in getting out 
of the Soviet Union. He and his wife fear 
further reprisal - they were beaten up 
when they were arrested  and both des
perately need medical treatment. He has a 
serious cardio-vascular ailment, and his 
wife is going blind without medical care. 
He also cannot help his fellow dissidents 
while so isolated. Says President Cyert of 
CMU: The Soviets would probably like to 
see Sakharov die quietly of natural causes 
while hes hidden away.
Dr. Herbert Simon of CMU, a Nobel 
prize winner, has written in support of the 
project. The American Federation of Sci
entists is very interested, and the Voice of 
America will broadcast the results to 
Russia. Also, Congressman Don Bailey or 
one of his aides will fly in for the lecture. 
The following is Simons statement:
Students win scholarships
The Architecture Department recently 
awarded over $11,000 in scholarships to 
four students. The four winners were among 
seventeen students selected on the basis of 
grade point averages in Design(Studio). At 
a closed jury, the winning students were se
lected by departmental faculty as well as 
three outside guests invited by the Pitts
burgh Chapter of the American Institute of 
Architects. William Petrone was the winner 
of the John Knox Shear Memorial Traveling 
scholarship for $3,OCX). Kenneth Jenkins 
received $2,500 from Pittsburgh Plate Glass 
in the form of a traveling scholarship. Hattie
Russell won $300 from the Blumcraft 
Fellowship. The Steward L. Brown Award 
is sponsored by the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
the AIA and will not be announced until 
April 29. This award will pay one semester 
of tuition for the winning student.
Additionally, Briar Tomlinson brought 
home to CMU the Stewardson Competition 
Award of more than $3,000 in a state wide 
contest of architecture schools in Pennsyl
vania.
The Department of Architecture wishes 
to thank all students involved in the schol
arships competitions
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls.
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
ltf mmwmm.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1100
Mon. Tues. Wed. -10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25
NO
APPOINTMENTS
Organizations like Amnesty Interna
tional and the American Civil Liberties 
Union make it their job to defend human 
freedom wherever it is threatened. Con
cern for human rights is more than chari
table sympathy for people in strange lands 
who are fired from their jobs or sent to 
prison because they speak or write what 
they think and believe. Concern for world
wide human rights is equally a concern 
for our own freedoms, right here at home.
At present, even though it would be 
easy to exaggerate the tolerance of our 
own society for dissenting views, there is 
a vast difference between the Gulag Archi
pelago or a Chilean prison and the penalties 
inflicted in the United States upon those 
who stray from the majority opinion.
But with only a moderately long mem
ory  less than ten years  one can recall
Watergate and the illegal Gestapo tactics, 
fortunately unsuccessful, of the White 
House plumbers. And with a somewhat 
longer memory, one can recall the paranoid 
atmosphere of the Cold War, with its sup
posed Communists hiding under every bed, 
and its Senator Joe McCarthy seeking to 
use this largely fictitious threat to destroy 
liberalism in America.
Ask not for whom the bell tolls; it tolls 
for thee. Freedom is a fragile thing in 
foreign lands and at home. When we ex
press our solidarity with the victims of 
Communist or Facist political oppression 
abroad, we are striking at least a small blow 
for our own freedom. Call it altruism or 
call it enlightened selfishness. By defending 
the liberties of others  especially those 
with whom we disagree, we contribute to 
the defense of what should be most 
precious to us.
Space sought for robotics
continued from page 1
ting a McDonalds inside a Wendys, com
mented one university official.
Swank is not sure how effectively his of
fice could operate in Skibo. He feels that 
the Skibo location would put him even fur
ther out of the daily traffic of most stud
ents, hence making Student Affairs less ac
cessible. Swank would need to have spec
ific details about the amount of money 
that would be available for renovations in 
Skibo in order to judge the quality of ser
vice Student Affairs could offer from that 
location.
Although the Financial Aid office has 
asked for space in which to expand, they 
will have to operate in less space than they 
are currently using. It is difficult to specu
late how the quality of its service will be 
affected by the cutback.
Student Senate passed a resolution last 
week condemning the move because of the 
damage that could be done to student ser
vices, such as Financial Aid and Student 
Affairs, and the cutback in the already 
scarce Student Activities space. Senate also 
protested the decision-making processspecifically the fact that the administration 
failed to notify students of the possible 
changes or consult students for possible al
ternatives.
Van Horn says he is concerned about 
student response and has directed Dean 
Swank to form a committee to investigate 
alternatives to the proposed action.
The lack of space for the proposed Ro
botics Institute and the proposed shuffling 
of various offices was discussed at yester
days Board of Trustees meeting. The de
tails will be in next weeks TARTAN.
OOPS!
MARK WRIGHT 
MCS
No, you dont know this guy. Im new, 
a transfer, but I think I can use this to your 
advantage in Student Senate. I havent 
made CMU a habit yet. I was involved at 
other schools and I saw what worked there. 
Rather than seeing only the CMU problems 
that directly affect me, Ive seen things 
CMU lacks that other schools have. Things 
like athletic facilities and student unions.
1 have formed several opinions. I like 
the Vali-Dine system. It makes food ser
vice work for your food dollar. However, 
food service needs more competition to keep 
them honest. Funny, no one has men
tioned using the Margaret Morrison store 
fronts for some private food establishment.
Let me think... student apathy, more 
responsive government, more for the stu
dents. Yes, these are problems I would like 
to work on, but the arguments are always 
the same. They are probably given in most 
of the other candidates speeches.
Im interested, I'll work. Im new. Try 
me.
JOHN LICATA 
H&SS
I, John Licata, announce my candidacy 
for Student Senate from H&SS. I intend to 
expose Student Senate as the powerless 
joke that it has become. What has the or
ganization done for H&SS? Their funds al
location has not been favorable for H&SS 
students. They have not promoted the 
value of a liberal arts education to either 
the students or the money worshippers in 
Warner Hall who refrain from allocating 
money for causes the students consider 
worthy. I refuse to vegetate like past Sen
ators, but rather use what little funds are 
given us efficiently. Liberal arts is the 
trademark of great universities. I will fight 
to use the miniscule power Student Senate 
has to further our cause. Lets try to 
change Student Senate from the laughing 
representative student government. Please 
vote for me, Big John, for Student Sen
ate.

---------------------------------------------------

If you were tired of the Midway by 8:00, Friday night was the Muddy 
Waters concert, the annual garden party at Roselawn and fireworks. At 
8:00, Muddy Waters provided the blues. The audience swayed to the music, 
v although they couldnt decipher the words due to poor acoustics in the 
Gym.
At 15 Roselawn, disco was the beat. Three kegs didn't last long, and 
neither did the grain, but that didnt stop the party. At 1:00 there was still 
a mass of dancers on the patio and the roof, but by 1:30 Security ended 
that. The music was unplugged.
Friday was a late night for most, but it didnt seem to affect the turnout 
for early morning buggy races on Saturday. With the exception of a few 
accidents, the event ran smoothly. Pika won.
By the afternoon, everybody headed over to Midway to use up their last 
few tickets. It was Squirrel Hill day on Midway with a mob of blossoming 
young JAP's replacing the Central Catholic crowd.
Booths were falling apart and prizes were running out. You thought you 
would definitely get sick if you rode the Enterprise one more time, but you 
still wanted one last chance at a goldfish. The tent held a gong show that 
was more talent than gong, and later that night it held the Cabaret and 
awards ceremony. The Spring Carnival program was ending, but the spirit 
would have a hard time dying out.
As you watched the carneys leave and the booths self-destruct, you 
realized that you had gotten no work done that weekend, but that you had 
had one hell of a good time.
Carnival 80: Give my regards to Midway ...
by Renee Rosenfeld and Lynn Epstein 
"WATCH OUT, I DONT KNOW HOW TO STOP! As you strolled across 
the cut leaving your last class, you heard this and other shouts of despera
tion, frustration, and fun echoing from rookie roller skaters.
You probably never made it back to your room. The cut was full of 
action. Everyone had dropped book knowledge for carnival knowledge.
If you werent enticed by skating, you found a frisbee, a skateboard, or 
you followed your nose to the origin of that popular sweet aroma.
Meanwhile at the Midway, booths were going up and rides were being 
tested.
"Pass me the hammer! 
Goddammit, somebody brought the wrong color paint! 
"... forget the 5:00 deadline, lets get wasted.
By 5:00 Thursday, Carnival was ready to begin, and the traditional 
ribbon cutting took place. (What are the opening ceremonies, I never 
knew they existed?)
That night you took your first cruise down the Midway, A New York 
State of Mind. Most of the booths were up, and most of the rides were 
working. The Enterprise and the Zipper took turns breaking down. The at
mosphere was PARTY. After all, you had the whole weekend to work.
The next morning saw the start of buggy and the end of runners in Baker 
Hall. ("Finally, say all the designers.) And get this, Guiness: Pika broke its 
own buggy record. Aside from this momentous event, the activities and the 
spirit were much the same as Thursday afternoon. Greenwich Village was 
hopping with jugglers, musicians and dancers, and the Midway was in full 
tilt. Mobs of high school kids, girls with their long hair and combs along
side Central Catholic guys with their T-shirts and cigarettes invaded all
nooks, crannies, and available leaning space. Everyone and his parents, 
brother and sister were there. With the return of many alumni, you realize 
that someone liked CMU enough to come back.
As you approached the Midway, the first thing your eye caught was the 
tent. This structure lent itself to many activities, and Friday afternoon 
the biggie was entertainment by the Rave-ups. From here, it was on to the 
ticket booth and then to the WRCT truck. WRCT was almost a booth in 
itself, holding contests and giving away prize records and T-shirts:
OK, anybody who has a last name that spells the same thing forward and 
backward wins a record. . . except OTTO.
From WRCT, you entered the world of New Yorks Manhattan, a runway 
of booths, people, popcorn, and cotton candy.
Goldfish!
What does ZBTs Empire State Building do anyway?
I never knew FAO Schwarz was a toy store.
And from the Kije crew: "Lets go to the Tartan booth and throw darts 
at Richard Gorelick.
It was your first snocone of the season, the first day to wear shorts and 
the first and only time to see New York in Pittsburgh.
As usual during Spring Carnival, the question of the day was, Whos 
ing to win buggy?
Although the most popular candidates were CIA and the everpresent Pika, 
some of the student responses went like this:
John Anderson, the write-in candidate.
s gonna win buggy races?. . . Pi Lam, of course!  
doesnt really matter, Im not running.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN - April 22, 1980
Leon Arkus resigns as fifth museum director
by Molly Silver
The primary objective of a museum as 
far as Im concerned, states Leon Arkusv 
the fifth director of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, is to give people 
a rich experience in art and at the same 
time provicate them with a taste for ex
cellence. Mr. Arkus has fulfilled his ob
jective of showing the Pittsburgh commu
nity what artistic excellence is in an 
exemplary manner since his election as 
Museum Director in 1969.
Leon Arkus has been involved in the 
arts throughout his entire life. He began 
his career in the field of Concert Manage'Mr. Arkus is an old 
Manhattanite and 
is extremely 
knowledgeable in 
many facets of art/
ment. Prior to serving in World War II, 
Arkus became interested in painting. 
Although he majored in English Litera
ture in college, he entered the arts at 
an early age. In 1939 and 1940, Mr. Arkus 
was the Assistant to the Director in the Old 
Masters Exhibition at the New York 
Worlds Fair. That was a fantastic exper
ience for a kid, Arkus said. I picked upi 
a tremendous amount of knowledge in 
this fashion working directly with the 
object rather than with its history. 
When Arkus joined the staff of the 
museum in 1954 as its Assistant Director, 
he had already had full exposure to the 
New York art scene. Mr. Arkus is an old 
Manhattanite and is extremely knowledgable in many facets of art. He is primarily
concerned with the creative process of 
painters. His main interest is the contem
porary, but, as Arkus explains,all 
great art is alive despite its period.
When asked about the responsibilities 
of a Museum Director Arkus said that he 
is chief cook and bottle washer. He 
supervises the Museums operation and that 
includes purchasing for its collection with 
the consent of the Board of Trustees. 
When Arkus arrived in Pittsburgh, the 
Museum had about two dozen works of 
museum quality. Arkus is most proud 
of the fact that the Museum now has one 
of t)ie finest art collections in the coun
try and that it is constantly upgrading 
that collection.
Our problem, said Arkus, is that 
most museums experienced their greatest 
growth around the turn of the century, 
ours began about 1960. By that time the 
cost of paintings had become fairly pro
hibitive and finding major works was 
difficult, so it is doubtful that we will
ever succed in becoming a museum repre
senting the great artists of all periods. 
We have not tried to be the Metropolitan 
Museum, rather the Frick. Let us show 
only works of quality. You cant achieve 
excellence by securing a souvenir of the 
Renaissance. You achieve it by showing 
a major work of the Renaissance.
Arkus worked closely on the architec. . the 
museum has 
changed its 
entire 
appearance.'
TuraT^eveIopmentofMhe^aral^^ca^ 
Gallery of the Museum of Art. Since he 
has been the Museums Director, the mu
seum has changed its entire appearance.
Arkus said that a great deal of his lifes 
blood went into the creation of the build
ing. I agree with John Russell of The 
New York Times who called the Museum 
an unflawed paradise. said Arkus. It is 
not only a superb building, but it works. 
We have seen beautiful buildings which do 
not serve the purpose for which they were 
intended. This does.
When questioned as to what new trends 
he has observed in the Museum during his 
long and prestigious career, Arkus said that 
the primary change has been the entrance
continued on page 10
- *
Blowout party!
Promising to be the party of the semester, surpassing even the Passion Party in Feb
ruary, is the End of the Year Blowout, cosponsored by AB Dance Committee. This 
will be one of the last opportunities to really enjoy yourself before finals headaches set 
in. Two bands will provide entertainment for the outdoor extravaganza this Friday, 
April 25 at the Margaret Morrison Apartments courtyard beginning at 8:30 PM. The 
Silencers will be featured, a hot new rock n roll band with a new album being re
leased in June. Their special guests will be The Clique, a local band that is becoming 
increasingly well known.
This is the second party AB Dance Committee has promoted this semester, working 
in conjunction with other student organizations; the Blowout will also be sponsored by 
AB Lectures, SDC Programming, and the residents of Margaret Morrison Apartments. 
The AB Dance Committee is hoping to emphasize the importance and usefulness of or
ganizations working together on events more people becoming involved, and the 
increased amount of resources available.
This will be a party too good to miss. If the weather interferes, the blowout will be 
held at the Morewood Rec Room. Be there.
IRON CITY
SCHUTZ
BUD
SCHMIOTS CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE ROLLING ROCK 
SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHEL06 
PABST 
MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS  PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 46 MOL SON ALE. LOWEMRAU DA UK 
STROMS MEINEKEN LIGHTOne totter ent '60160* h* lured etch 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MAI T  strom s * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVE0 TILL 3 AM HOT DOGS CHOICE Of 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------- IMPORTS ----------------
ft
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC
BASS AL England OORT HANSA Garmany
 SAM MIGUEL PtUfcpmaa
 SPATENBRAU Qwmtny
 ST PAULI OWL Garmany 
PILSNER UROUELL CtacH
 QUINE SS STOUT Iraland 
DAS XX ECXIIS Maxico
 WURZBURGER Garmany
 HARP LAGER Ireland
 LOWENBRAU Germany 
O KEEFE ALE Canada
 CHNKEL ACKER Garmany
 TECATE Mamco
 ISENBECK W Garmany 
IRYSTALL Italy
MACKE SON EnglandCamegi-- Ml Camemm-o
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
 KIRIN Japan
 PERONI ttaty 
RIGNES Norway 
BECKS Garmany 
MOFBRAU Garmany 
ZYWIEC Poland
 KRAKUS Poland
 SUPERIOR Maxco EOiifcRS AuaMma 
HEINEKEN HoSand
 MOL SON ALE Canada
 PAULANER Garmany 
GOSSER Auatna
 TANKARO London
 UNION W Garmany 
PALE ALE London DINKEL Garmany
 W ARFTEINEL Garmany
Iran: Crisis and campaign
by Joyce Stevenson
Has the Iran hostage crisis grown to be an issue in this years Presidential Election? 
Has the crisis and the subsequent Soviet invasion of Afghanistan become the crux of 
President Carters re-election campaign, the main issue in many primaries? The President 
neither welcomes nor elongates the crisis yet he benefits politically from his role as Pres
ident during crisis. Talk of breakthroughs and troubles in Iran and Afghanistan domi
nate both national news and Carters campaign, International crisis has molded a new 
Carter, a Carter^quite different from the unknown Georgia governor who swept through 
the primaries four years ago.
Having established a clear cut leader image, Carter once again leads in the Democratic 
race for President? What do his opponents say about Iran and the Presidents handling 
of the situation? Republicans George Bush, John Anderson, and Ronald Reagan either 
avoid the issue or offer only criticisms, never solutions. Of all of Carters competitors 
only Senator Edward Kennedy can claim any role in the crisis. As early as December, 
Kennedy denounced the Shah and suggested a U.N. Security Council investigation. 
Kennedy opposed the President and administration policy during our international 
crisis. Although some of his suggestions became policy, his popularity fell as a result of 
his politics. Since then, hes joined the other challengers in avoiding the issue. Qearly, 
Iran is the Presidents issue.
President Carter milks the strife in Iran and Afghanistan for all the political mileage 
he can manage. A man who took office claiming human rights his prime concern ancf 
who pardoned Vietnam draft evaders as his first official act, Carter now presents a dif
ferent, less liberal image. His January 22 State of the Union Address called for renewed 
military registration, a more aggressive America, and a return to U.S.-Soviet anxieties. 
The President calls on Americans and our allies to sacrifice while presenting a new force
ful image demanding embargoes against Iran and boycotts of the Moscow Olympics. In 
a sense,the President further polarizes East, West,and 3rd World.
Have his politics worked? Western Europe balks at the idea of boycott and em
bargoes, while Soviet troops still occupy Afghanistan and militant students still occupy 
our embassy in Teheran. His image of a strong leader unifying America wins him con
siderable support at home. The Middle East crisis and Carters aggressive approach 
overshadow inflation problems. Salt II controversies, and the failing of Carters econom
ic reforms and Camp David triumphs. His seven AM day-of-thg primary hostage crisis 
breakthrough announcement won him considerable support in the crucial Wisconsin 
primary.
This breakthrough never materialized and as the important Pennsylvania primary 
nears the situation in the Mid East looks as bad as ever. Carter has changes his image and 
the mood of the American people , but he still hasnt altered the situations in Iran and 
Afghanistan. With the Common Market countries pondering Carters boycott pleas, 
international politics play a huge role in the April 22 Pennsylvania primary. No one, not 
even the President himself, knows whether the crisis will be his ticket to re-election or 
his and Americas downfall. Soon we hope to find out the answer.
'UiU: J'A. ----------  - - - - - -ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential frlond, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0343. Fraa Pragnancy Tasting. 
Evanlng Hours Avallabla

---------------------------------------------------

AB LECTURES PRESENTS
Joshua Rubenslein 
ofAmnesty InternationalSOVIET DISSIDENTS
Their Struggle For Human Rights
8RM. Wednesday, April 23,1980 skibo ballroom funded by activities feeFREE!
OPtH ToTKfc

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - TARTAN - April 22, 1980
Four artists to be featured at Forbes Street
by Alex Czajkowski
This weeks show at Forbes Street 
features the talents of four artists: Sue 
Bachemin, Leslie Hershberg, Crisanne 
Lam ark, and Roma Slack. Their work 
encompasses a variety of media, including 
drawing, color xerox, printmaking, metal, 
photography and painting.
Sue Bachemin, a drawing and printmaking major, is featuring figure work, 
prints and small. drawings. Interested in 
video and color xerox, she views them 
along with printmaking as forms of draw
ing. Worth noting is a color xerox series 
entitled Operation Asteroid. This is a com
ical yet blatant series influenced by 50s 
ad art. Bachemin finds with the xerox 
medium she is able to introduce elements
which are widely different, because they 
take on -an overall sameness due to the na
ture of the medium. The artist acknow
ledges that her way of seeing is often 
shaped by the media.
The second artist, Leslie Hershberg, 
a metalsmithing major, will display 
metal works along with some recent photo
graphs. Hershberg is a remarkable crafts
man with an excellent sense of design and 
form. There is a surrealistic twist in several 
pieces created by the translation of ideas 
into metal. A good example is a well de
signed piece which seemingly resembles 
a matchbook. The matchlike forms on the 
inside of the book are really containers 
for pills. A similar piece is a pin, created 
from a veal dragonfly fashioned from silver
and bronze. Also worth noting is a beau
tiful pitcher constructed out of bronze and 
walnut.
Crisanne Lamark, a drawing major 
uses the figure as a primary source of in
formation for much of her work. The 
active marks of her figures create a sense 
of activity and vitality synonomous with 
human anatomy. Also shown will be a se
ries of pencil drawings which are much 
more abstract and geometric. Lamark 
feels that this series is very similar to 
her figure work. Both work in terms of 
creating the same sort of relationships 
to a whole, while her anatomical forms 
come together to create marvelous con
structions. In this series the geometric 
elements blend to form a satisfying total.
Paintings and drawings comprise the 
works being shown by Roma Slack. Shes 
featuring a small variety of pieces, the ma
jority related to a grid. Several paintings, 
a drawing, and a print are all variations on 
an old Tibetan Buddhist grid. A Jattice 
work of lines, horizontal and vertical, 
once defined the proportions used to 
consistently create the Buddhist image. 
Subdued muted colors characterize these 
pieces in what Slack terms as contempla
tive works, compared to past works which 
tended to be more energetic and uncon
trolled. The four women are exhibiting 
their works from April 22-27. It proves 
to be a super show. Gallery hours are 
Wednesday thru Sunday, 12:30 to 4:30, 
and Tuesday thru Thursday 7:00 to 9:00.
East Wing architect awarded honorary degree
by Stuart I. Seidman
From Washington D.C. to Peking China 
some of the most popular buildings of our 
age have been designed by one architect. 
Over the past thirty years Ieoh Mong Pei 
has designed over three dozen buildings. 
In recognition of I. M. Peis contribution 
to humanity CarnegieMellon University 
will be awarding Pei an honorary degree of 
the Doctor of Fine Arts at commencement 
May 12.
Pei is probably best known for designing 
the East Wing of the National Gallery of
only major work. Widely acclaimed is his 
design for the Dallas City Hall, the J.F.K. 
Library in Boston, and the Everson Mu
seum of Art in Syracuse. Locally Pei has 
designed the Washington Plaza Apartments 
which are across the street from the Gvic 
Arena.
Pei is currently working on several ma
jor projects. The Fragrant Hill Hotel in 
Peking is scheduled for completion this 
year while the design phase for the new 
New York City Convention Center was 
recently completed with construction to
to the United States to study architecture 
at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology. He has a Master of Architecture 
degree from the Harvard Graduate School 
of Design. Pei is a Fellow of the American 
Institute of Architects and is a member of 
the Royal Institute of British Architects.
Pei has received many awards over the 
years for his work. Among the numerous 
awards that he has received is the AIA 
Gold Medal-the highest honor of the 
American Institute of Architects.
Pei will be the first architect to receive 
an honorary degree from CMU in twenty 
years. While this appears to be a long time 
he is joining a select group. At commence
ment in 1960 Ludwig Mies van der Rohe 
was awarded the D.FA. It is an appro
priate relationship. While van der Rohe 
was one of the founders of the modern 
movement in architecture, Pei is from the 
next generation and has designed some of 
the finest public buildings of the last two 
decades.
Art in Washington D.C. While this is his start soon.
best known building it is far from being his Piei was born in China in 1917 and came
>VTTH.JS
TO: DOSSIER MAGAZINE 
FROM: ANDREW CARNEGIE.
SUBJECT:DOSSIER MAGAZINE.
DATE: APRIL 17. 1980.
Dear Editor,
This is the Best Damn 
magazine weve had in 
years j>! Keep up the 
Great work!!
Sincerly,
i0f
Museum head resigns
continued from page 8
of the government into the arts with the 
creation of the National Endowment of the 
Arts. To a great extent we depend on 
government money, and I wouldnt be sur
prised if, unfortunately, we are forced to 
take on the coloration the government 
wishes us to assume. I think that is the 
dominant trend of today and tomorrow. 
Is it healthy? I wonder. Arkus deplores 
the fact the government has put almostall 
of its funding into exhibitions. He goes on 
to say that the government could help 
museums the most if it offered financial 
assistance for normal operations such as 
maintanance, electricity, heat and guards. 
He would like the government to permit
Responsible Mellon undergraduate 
Research Fellows University of Pitts
burgh require inexpensive housing 
for june 2 thru July 28. Will house 
sit or sublet apartment, Oakland, 
Shadyside, Squirrel Hill. Contact 
Mrs. Kaufman 624-2360. Weekdays 
9 to 5.
museums to retain their own individuality 
and not shape museum policy.
Retirement is inappropriate to describe 
what Arkus will be doing shortly. I dont 
think of myself as retiring, I say I am 
about to graduate. Im too full of ideas to 
give lip the ghost. I really look forward to 
a period when I think I can do some of my 
best work. I will be involved in art con
sultation. People have asked me to buy art 
for them. I love the search. Incidentally, I 
am very interested in Pittsburgh as a city, 
describes Arkus
Arkus would like to see greater and 
more important things happen to the muse
um but within the realm of what has hap
pened, Arkus feels it is a miracle.
To Leon Arkus, art isa vital part of life. 
You cant emergfe into this world full 
formed, he said. You have to experience 
a past. With a prestigious and admirable 
past behind his and a list of lifetime accom
plishments, Arkus is as much of a Pitts
burgh, institution as the reknown museum 
he heads. Arkus is leaving his position hav
ing reated a standard of excellence.
SUMMER INTERNS WANTED
One of the top Wall Street Investment Banking Firms is undertaking a major review of all 
operations with the goal of:
1. Indicating revenue expansion and/or cost reduction opportunities that can be accomplished in the near future.
2. Developing detailed requirements for an integrated securities trading and processing system designed for expense reduction, revenue expansion and risk 
control.
Ideal candidates will have outstanding academic credentials in Industrial Engineering, 
Finance, or Management Information Systems, will have completed one year of graduate study, and have two to three years of business 
experience.
Compensation is extremely high, but so are the 
hours.
If you have an interest, please forward your resume, along with a cover letter indicating why you should be selected for this project to:
MRS. JEANETTE WIRFEL Doremus and Co.
120 Broadway New York, N.Y. 10005

---------------------------------------------------

Photograph* by: Michael Brzustowicz, Chuck Chidekel, Tom Hart, Dave Huchstte, Jen ty Ladd, Andrew Spewr^ck. Skip Stong, Robert Zusn.-in

---------------------------------------------------

. , ' '

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
Cabaret and awards are climax to New York weekend
by Richard Gorelick
About 250 people crowded into the 
SDC tent Saturday night for Spring Carni
vals closing ceremonies. Some people were 
there to see the New York cabaret style en
tertainment and some were there simply to 
hear the carnival contest winners. Both 
groups of people got to experience an 
aspect of life at CMU that they otherwise 
may have been missing.
The evening was emceed by the na
tionally known comedy team of Edmonds 
and Curly, one of scores of acts that have 
appeared on the Tonight Show and Merv 
Griffin. Even though their comedy was 
extremely well received, their material 
lacked originality and wit. Their jokes 
dealt with topics ranging from Pittsburgh 
to drinking to airplanes, but their biggest 
response came from a bit on urinating. 
Again, their comedy was polished and welltimed (and funny), but it was certainly 
nothing that Carnegies own talent couldnt 
have produced at considerably less expense
The first cabaret act was Chris 
OConnor, who sang a combination of 
American and Irish folk songs to the gui
tar accompaniement of Kirk Morrison. 
OConnor has an inviting, relaxed style, 
and even though his brand of music was 
not suited to the large,airy tent, the crowd 
was attentive and appreciative.
After Edmonds and Curly presented 
some more comedy, the stars of the pre
vious weeks Coffeehouse, Robbin Slade, 
Maxine Lapiduss and Alan Harp took the 
stage to perform some of the numbers that 
had overwhelmed the Wherrett Room aud
ience; The Rose, Old Cape Cod and 
Chapel of Love. These three have 
proved that they can sustain an audiences 
attention for ninety minutes. It was unfor
tunate that they had to dress up for only 
four songs on Saturday night. Nevertheless, 
their performance, especially a superbly in
ventive rendition of The Rose, was a 
success.
The third cabaret act was Michael 
Connor. Michael not only has a well 
trained, vibrant voice, he has developed an 
extremely friendly stage presence. His ver
sions of New York, New York and 
Billy Joels New York State of Mind 
were performed with class and enjoyment.
Unfortunately, one member of the 
audience, before Michael began his second 
number, announced his desire to get on 
with the awards. This may have been the 
problem with combining the. awards and 
cabaret under one roof. The acts were not 
given enough time to really show their 
talent or develope a rapport with the aud
ience.
The awards ceremony progressed 
smoothly with the chairperson of the ap
propriate committee announcing the
Edmonds and Curly are looking up
awards. However, the carnival committee 
might have involved those people outside 
of the competitive world of carnival by of
fering small explanations of each awards 
significance.
For instance, the first award was for 
design. Now, everybody who was at all 
involved with buggy competition under
stood that this award was for buggy 
design, but those who came to see the 
cabaret may have been wondering, design 
for what? A small explanation of the 
criteria for buggy design would have made 
a big difference.
It also would have helped the audience 
to appreciate the awards ceremony if the 
winning T-shirts and slides of the winning 
booths were displayed. It was hard for one 
to get a mental picture of KATs winning 
T-shirt or SAEs winning booth.
Of course these are minor points, but 
when two very different aspects of Car
negies life are brought together under one 
roof, problems such as these should be an
ticipated.
Almost all of these problems can be for
gotten, however, when people who have 
never even been to a fraternity mixer can 
see the sheer and spontaneous ecstacy of a 
group of women like the Delta Gammas, 
who have learned that something they 
have all worked on together has been ap
preciated and rewarded. The spirit of 
friendship and sisterhood was never more 
exhilirating then when the DGs heard that 
they had won the booth competition.
Another beautiful picture was the 
brothers of PIKA dousing each other with 
champagne upon receiving their buggy 
award.
When the awards were finished, the 
group of people whose interests were wait
ing in kegs back at the fraternity house de
parted , leaving a curious and excited audi
ence for The Bean Team.
The Bean Team, consisting of Kirk 
Ewalt, Steve Levy, Chris Zito, and Beth 
Watzke hopped on stage and rocked into 
what must be their theme song. Ewalts 
deft handling of the electric floor sweeper 
is of special notice.
The group urged the audience to bean, 
which may have been their way of inform
ing them that some of their fast paced 
vignettes were going to work and some 
were going to fall perfectly flat. A clever 
satire of Combo-Tactics (The Shakes to 
you and me) Bobby Angel, worked, as 
the saga became Paul Preston. A game 
show satire, Can You Bob This?, failed, 
mainly because two front row spectators 
almost got slashed by flying glass from a 
television set.
Overall, The Bean Teams concept of 
fast-paced irreverent theater was success
ful, due mainly to the versatility and 
energy of the performers. Beth Watzke has 
one of the most entertaining faces on cam
pus. One skit had Steve Levy attempting to 
escape from Saran Wrap in twenty seconds:
Beths look of determination before she 
wrapped Steve up is a classic.
Hopefully, some people who came to 
see the awards lingered around for The 
Bean Team. They might not have liked 
all that they saw, but they still had a 
chance to experience something off the 
main track of CMU life. And hopefully, 
some people who came primarily to see the 
cabaret got a chance to see a little bit of 
what makes fraternity and sorority life so 
worthwhile.
Spring Carnival Awards 
Buggy Design
1) Beta Theta Pi (Echo); for the third year 
in a row.
2) Sigma Nu (ESP)
3) Delta Tau Delta (Cyclone)
T-Shirt
1) Kappa Alpha Theta (Radio City Music 
Hall); dancing legs.
2) Zeta Beta Tau (Pegasus-Buggy)
3) Sigma Alpha Epsilon (Nights on Broad
way)
Booth
Independent
1) Lambda Sigma (Central Park); goldfish 
and fountain
2) Student Alumni Relations Council 
(Studio 54)
Sorority
1) Delta Gamma (New York Stock Ex
change)
2) Chi Omega (Metropolitan Opeia); large 
stuffed dolls.
Fraternities
1) Sigma Alpha Epsilon ( Broadway)
2) Kappa Sigma (Brooklyn Bridge)
3) Delta Upsilon (Blackout)
The judges for these contests do the 
best job they possibly can. When so much 
work is put into each booth, it becomes 
difficult to find discriminating attributes 
among booths and t-shirts. Nevertheless, 
the sheer magnitude and authenticity of 
the Brooklyn Bridge made Kappa Sigmas 
booth the expected winner.
When Kappas booth was announced 
to be the second place winner, the aud
ience responded with a chorus of boos. 
One was curious as to what booth had been 
chosen over the bridge. SAEs Broadway 
booth took first prize, and their booth was 
a fine artistic and amusing enterprise, but it 
was not the eye catcher that Kappas was.
Zeta Beta Taus Empire State Building 
was another outstanding booth, although 
the purpose of the game was mysterious to 
most strollers. Delta Tau Deltas Con Edi
son was also an eye-catching, impressive 
booth, and the swim teams booth may 
help to revive the wet t-shirt craze.
Lady From The Sea is a success in Kresge
by Michelle Weinberg
The CMU Drama Departments produc
tion of Henrik Ibsens Lady from the Sea 
deserves the highest praise for its fastidi
ously professional performance. Using a 
more modern adaptation of the classic 
romantic drama, both the director, Elisa
beth Orion, and the cast breathed a spark
ling new life into the script.
Orions directing and staging made an 
otherwise stiff and static play a marvel
ously comic, fast-paced piece of theater, 
without damaging Ibsens sombre and 
traumatic attitude. Every member of the 
cast effectively revealed his/her inner being 
in a perfectly believable manner. Charac
terizations were neither to the extreme of 
caricature nor underplayed
Lri Herbison engagingly skittered, 
Pranced and scrambled across the stage,
emoting with a comic vivacity perfectly 
suited to her disarmingly precocious cher
ub/devil role as the younger daughter of 
Dr. Wangel.
The doctor was played gracefully and 
with the proper tragic manliness by Gary 
Boyer and Bolette, his elder, was the pic
ture of ladylike sobriety and feminity as 
portrayed by Patricia McClanahan. The 
local jack of all trades, Miss Ballested, 
possessed all the merry truculence of a 
girls camp headmistress as she bustled with 
a bawdy sense of humor that seemed to 
come naturally to Wendy Hall. The most 
startling performance, however, was given 
by Catherine Haun in the title role. Miss 
Haun possessed a striking magnetism that 
immediately announced the presence of 
some extraordinary element on the stage. 
In her character, Ibsen vested the essence
of his drama. Her internal torment was 
palpable and realistic. Her abrupt changes 
of mood and her wandering, impulsive ges
tures clearly suggested the state of mind of 
a woman distraught and tortured by her 
own conflicting longings: A passionate
performance.
However it does not end there. The fine 
attention to detail and atmosphere evinced 
by the actors was not lacking in the design 
of the set. The construction was a highly 
imaginative one, offering easy flexibility of 
scene plan as well as visual interest. The 
set consisted of a few simple structures 
which were interconnected in a variety of 
ways dictated by the change of scene.
A perfectly wonderful touch was the 
costuming of the run crew. Orions choice 
to do so revealed her desire to unite all 
aspects of the theater into or taining
image. The physical reality and workings 
of the set were not disguised in some 
clumsy way, but were rather incorporated 
into the drama. Her pictorial sense was 
very strong.
The lighting emphasized the Ibsenish 
starkness of the figures struck midway 
between the mountains, fjords, and sky. 
Gently colored, the lighted backdrop 
resembled Monets V/aterlilies with a soft 
mauve overcastness that is at once robust 
and depressing. It beautifully depicted the 
brooding, dreary Scandinavian atmosphere 
without allowing the coldness to become 
overbearing.
On the whole, everyone involved must 
be commended upon the presentation of a 
carertilly and sensitively constructed classic 
drar.ja. Performances will continue nightly 
in the K *sge theatre through April 26th.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - TARTAN - April 22,1980
Concert Review
Robin Trower gives tight and never faltering performance
by Charly Rhoades
A trip to a Robin Trower concert has 
been termed a gamble, at the least. The 
man has come up with some phenomenal 
music in the past, but he recently has pro
duced some works that have been consid
ered in equally unflattering terms; some 
critics labeled his last two efforts as subpar or ** commercial.
Understandably, it was with this ambi
valence that I took my front row seat in 
the Stanley last Wednesday night as the 
opening act Shooting Star took the stage 
at 8.
This sextet played a solid 50 minute 
set. They were a clean unit, working with 
each other well and with well-oiled preci
sion. Their second song was their current 
single, You Got What I Need. The lead 
guitarist expanded his playing style during 
this number, but was still playing heavily 
used riffs. He tried to attain a heavy metal 
style which just didnt click with the 
bands Kansas-like back-up; they used
heavy rhythm changes which were quite 
clean and, at times, even lyrical. Overall, 
however, their compositions werent very 
substantial, lacking originality.
The Shooting Star crowd responded, 
nevertheless, seeking some rock n roll; 
and they left, after an encore, leaving the 
audience with a feeling of anticipation for 
Trower and some wild electric blues/rock.
He and his band delivered, as they took 
the stage in sylishly short haircuts, and sent 
the crowd to their feet. The bassist, James 
Dewar, pounded out plodding chords while 
taking responsibility for the distinctive 
vocals in the group Drummer Bill Lordan 
was equally psyched for the night, and he 
and Dewar amply supported the obvious 
attractionTrower on 16ad guitar.
Aided by a bevy of equipment laid out 
at his feet (the string of pedals and 
buttons stretched nearly 4 feet), huge 
Marshal stacks in back of him and an
assortment of guitars, Trower squeezed 
two quick songs out before going into one 
of his characteristic classicsBridge of 
Sighs. Its masterful execution was slightly 
hampered by some feedback, but the 
roadies at the mix board corrected the 
problem as Trower went into Jack and 
Jill, from his latest IP Victims of the 
Fury.
The band continued the set by alternat
ing songs from the new album and rock 
sprinkling of old favorites typifying 
Trowers penchant for straight electric 
blues/rock. Trowers guitar-work was not 
overlong or too flashy, but increased in 
intensity throughout the concert until the 
fans were literally screaming for an encore. 
They got two before the band called it 
quits.
The concert was deftly executed as the 
band kept the crowd enticed by their
tunes from earlier releases. Songs trom the 
latest disc included The Shout 
(surprisingly shorter than the studio 
version), Mad House (highlighted by 
some uncharacteristically active lighting 
which complemented the total Hendrixlike jam by Trower) and the title cut, 
Victims of the Fury.
The band was on stage for hardly 70 
minutes, but Trower kept the ticketholders entertained with his powerfully 
expressive blues. The sparse lighting was 
a dissapointment; the only effect was 
created by a mirrored ball giving an inte
resting starry effect to the stage. The show 
was mixed adequately, with perhaps the 
exception of an overpowering bass near the 
opening. As a whole, the show was tight 
and never faltered; the performers suitably 
entertained their audience.
Art ReviewForbes Street's juried Art Show disappointing
by Alex Czajkowski 
Last weeks Juried Art Show at the 
Forbes Street Gallery was, to say the least, 
disappointing. Given the opportunity to 
pick and choose among the best work of 
CMUs best artists, I expected the juror 
to provide a wide spectrum of impeccably 
done work, consisting of the greatest 
hits of previous shows as well as excep
tional works of talented underclassmen. 
For several reasons, this was most certainly 
not the case, and the show became little 
more than a reflection of the jurors own style.
Several or our finest art students did not 
even bother to submit samples of their 
work, foreseeing exactly what did happen, 
and not wanting to have anything to do 
with it. Their fear? A prejudiced and sub
jective juror. Even with this possibility, 
over one hundred and twenty pieces did 
get submitted, mainly from underclassmen 
(the voice of experience, perhaps?).
Unfortunately,  juror, artist 
Dorothea Rockburne, was totally subjective and definitely prejudiced in her taste. 
Over 87 percent of the works were ab
stract, color and/or geometrically oriented 
This fact alone is not necessarily a bad 
indication since tight thematic exhibits
are often the best; however, after seeing the 
wide range of varying mediums, styles and 
talent available for the show, there was 
absolutely no excuse for her extremely 
dosed-minded selection.
Rockburne denied being a conceptionalist (although the artist I talked to 
tended to describe her that way), but this 
can be attributed to almost everybodys 
reluctance to be labeled. Her choices, 
those she responded to, were largely 
conceptualist in form. When asked to jus
tify or explain her preferences, she said, 
I dont like questions like that.
Objectivity is difficult in art reviewing, 
but when there is cash-flow involved, not 
to mention the educational aspects of an 
exhibit like this, an honest effort should 
be expected from any judge. Rockburne 
claimed that she felt that the work she
chose represented the overall submission, 
but she was wrong: There were many 
facets of art represented in the work 
submitted for judging, yet she ignored the 
majority of multi-media pieces and sculp
ture, as well as the few variations of 
realistic pieces.
Even the work she chose was not the 
best available of its type. For instance, 
Bob Kiley has done far superior figure 
studies and two of Antoinette Coniglios 
acrylic Sub Structures were unnecessary 
when one would have been sufficient. A 
couple of the chosen few just should not 
have been in any show... except one judged 
by Rockburne with criteria that can be 
gleaned from a first examination of the 
show.
At least two out of three attributes 
were apparent in a mjaority of pieces: 
These were 1) Geometry, 2) Color and
3) Abstraction. With the exception of three 
pieces, the entire show can be fitted into 
two or all of these characteristics. The exceptions were especially interesting, and
You dont need a credit card to rent from us.
200 Miles Included 
Each Additional Mile 20*
PER 
DAY
Just because you dont have a credit card 
doesnt mean you cant rent a car from 
National Car Rental. All you have to do is 
fill out a short form which we verify with a 
few quick phone calls and leave a cash 
deposit. Gome into National during 
normal business hours any weekday and 
well take care of it. Available from 6 pm 
Thursday to 6 pm Monday. 2-day 
minimum on Thursday. You pay for gas 
and return car to renting location. Rate 
applies to car shown or similar-size car, 
is non-discount able and subject to change 
without notice. Specific cars subject to We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette. availability. We offer S&H Green Stamp 
certificates on rentals in all 50 U.S. states.
National Car Rental
4621 Forbes Ave.............................................................682-1444
jave some credibility to Rockburnes 
aste. As Ive mentioned before, Kileys 
alent is obvious in all his figure drawings 
ind this was noticed, also: Bruce Dempsey 
s one of the best weavers currently in 
>chool. Lou Welshs pastel, Portrait of 
Lauren is fine if he admits that his sub
ject was dead when drawn.
There were also some excellent pieces 
that met Rockburnes criteria. Jeff Brices 
untitled acrylic with a custom-shaped 
frame was very eye catching, due mainly 
to the original frame. The painting itself, 
however, was right on Rockburnes criteria 
geometric, colorful and abstract.
Leah Barkanics pornographic Suck It 
Up and Throw the Bag Away, combining 
paint, paper and plaster (multi-media in 
any sense of the expresssion) to create 
graphic images of a womanized vacuum, 
and two hand-dipped landscapes by 
Sharon Lewkowitz also met the required 
critieria. Barkanics pieces had color and 
abstraction while Lewkowitzs work had 
abstraction and geometric form.
three three-dimensional pieces met 
Rockburnes standards, two of which are
especially note-worthy; Bob Kalkas This 
Time Around, a large, abstract wooden 
structure with a touch of color, and Susan 
Benns Metranome, a multi-media, large
ly wood piece that looks somewhat like a 
framed metranome.
The third was another wooden construc
tion similar to Metranome in size, but 
with no time-keeping device inside. In
stead, in Jim Kozliks Corner Shape, 
new dimensions are formed by contrasting 
shades in the comer of the box. In the 
light of the Gallery, this piece did lose 
some of its effectiveness, but was still 
a worthy distraction from all the hanging 
work.
* Hopefully, next year the Juried Art
Show will have a full jury, or at least an 
unbiased judge. The idea of a juried art 
show is a great one, but having to pay 
Some apparently non-interested artist to 
tell us what she responds to is a waste of 
time and money.
More pieces should have been chosen,
(many unchosen pieces were meritus, 
as Rockburne did admit), and 1 saw the 
need for some restraint in the comparison 
of her own work with that of the students, 
subconsciously or not.
With the obvious problems present in 
this show, more control is necessary: One 
cant trust the juror to be objective, and 
more responses are important to create 
a great, varied art and artist show.

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 1980 - TARTAN - Page 17
Rundgren brings a night of Utopia to Stanley
by Alan Spero
Music Editor 
Utopia, featuring Todd Rundgren, 
Kasim Sulton, Willie Wilcox, and Roger 
Powell, provided last Fridays jam-packed 
Stanley audience with one of the most 
inventive, original and refreshing concert 
experiences ever presented here.
Rundgren, Powell, and Sulton each 
stood on their own podium, complete with 
microphone and monitors, keeping the 
stage set-up lean and neat. The show was 
divided into two parts; the first half con
centrating on material from their latest 
album, Adventures In Utopia, and the 
second half dedicated to solo video pre
sentations by each band member and, of 
course, some of Todd Rundgrens more
Trapped In A World, and Love In 
Action. Roger Powell, sporting a portable 
synthesizer set-up hung over his shoulder 
like a guitar, displayed some brilliant 
keyboard playing during his swirling, misty 
song, Caravan.
The band played musical chairs for 
Willie Wilcoxs Gangrene, with Todd on 
drums, Wilcox on vocals and bass, and 
Kasim on guitar. The first half also in
cluded a stunning version of Love Of 
The Common Man.
After a short intermission, Utopia 
returned with a visual-musical presentation, 
broken down into four solo spots. During 
Powells Sands Of Arrakis, cosmic, 
three dimensional sequences were projected on a large screen, perfectly synchroTodd Rundgren
popular solo material.
For the majority of the first half, Rund
gren stuck to playing his energetic, screamming guitar leads, even though he was not 
very enthusiastic on stage. Still, it is easy 
to understand why Rundgren seemed so 
distracted while he was playing: The first 
set was plagued by just about every pos
sible kind of audio-technical problem, from 
bad mikes and poor connections, to broken 
strings and buzzing amps. Yet Rundgren 
and company carried on admirably under 
sound conditions which were so poor that 
a band of any less quality would have been 
booed off the stage.
Highlights of the first half included the 
opener Road To Utopia, Set Me Free,
and Utopia
Wilcoxs solo was all video; a hysterical 
soap-opera entitled You Make Me Crazy. 
Probably the most refreshing segment was 
Kasim Sultons melodic keyboard piece, 
Love Alone, which gave the feel of an 
old-fashioned sing-along by having the 
words projected a la bouncing ball on 
the screen while the other Utopians sang 
harmonies barber-shop style.
Compared to the constant drone and 
abrasive posings of mega-decible, boogierock bands, this was a thoroughly enter
taining change of pace, and is a credit to 
the imagination displayed by the members
Todds solo spot did not incorporate 
any visual effects but was an equally enjoy-Genesis: Regression
by Scott Schaffer
Whether long-time Genesis aficionados 
want it or not, the band they used to love 
has released its first album in two years. 
Duke has some value, but should none
theless elicit cries of pain from those who 
are familiar with vintage Genesis.
The deficits of Duke are not hard to 
spot. The three members of the band 
turn in uninspired performances. Key
boardist Tony Banks rarely varies his in
strumentation, which consists primarily of 
electric piano and string synthesizers. 
Banks and Mike Rutherfords futile at
tempts to replace Steve Hackett on guitar 
do not relieve the monotony.
In addition, the group seems to have 
abandoned what were once potent wea
pons acoustic passages. The only non
electric instrument that makes waves on 
this disk is the drums. While the instrumen
tation is not up to par, Phil Collins' vocals 
are not much better. He scratches and 
strains on several songs, probably trying 
either to keep a straight face or to stay 
awake while recording this stuff.
The biggest problem pf all is simply 
a shortage of good material. The three song 
medley of Behind the Lines, Duchess, 
and Guide Vocal is acceptable, as is 
the lengthy, predominantly instrumental 
Dukes Travels. Most of the remainder of 
the collection, however, falls short of the 
standards of excellence Genesis has set over 
the years.
While Cul de Sac, and Alone To
night are way overproduced, Heathaze 
is downright boring. Misunderstanding 
and Turn It On Again are attempts to 
follow up Follow You, Follow Me
able medley of some of his greatest solo 
hits, including, It Couldnt Have Made 
Any Difference, Can We Still Be 
Friends, A Dream Goes On Forever, 
and Hello, Its Me.
Shortly afterward, there followed a con
densed, but still fiery, version of the Ra 
album. Todd and Kasim used their wildly 
designed Ra guitars for this, while 
Wilcox was highlighted on his own futuris
tic, space-ship designed drum set.
The group closed the show with its own 
namesake song, Utopia, and then 
returned for two encores; a kick-ass 
Couldnt I Just Tell You, and a powerful
Just One Victory, which had the whole 
audience standing up and singing along. 
Before they left, Rundgren asked the 
crowd to write to their networks and 
convince them to allow him to bring his 
Utopian video to TV.
After experiencing their concert last 
Friday night, there is no doubt in my mind 
that I would eagerly switch to Adventures 
In Utopia over Mork and Mindy, Chips, 
or Don Kirshners Rock Concert. Utopias 
concert brought back the imagination so 
desperately needed by rock and roll today.
Going, Going, Gong!
The second annual SDC Gong Show 
fumbled its way through six different acts 
in the Carnival tent on Saturday. Of the 
six, two were gonged by judges Mary 
ONan, Dr. Bob Eisenstein, and Dr. Gerald 
Costanzo.
Before the actual show began, some of 
the staff and cast of the Scotch n Soda 
musical Kije sang a short medley from the 
show, ending to a mixed applause and 
shouts to gong them.
The Tartones, a barbershop style quar
tet composed of three males and one fe
male provided a brief opening, as they were 
gonged within 30 seconds.
Acapella soloist Benetta Chisholm was 
the next act. The crowd which jammed the 
tent responded well, but began to become 
restless by the end of her perfomance. She 
received a score of 28 out of a possible 30.
A score of one from each judge gave the 
human pile the lowest score of the day. 
An act organized minutes before the show, 
nineteen people stacked themselves in 
layers of two and three. Needing a little 
release, the crowd reacted with applause 
while the group was stacking themselves.
After a long 20 minute fill-in period by 
emcees, Sloppy Joe and Deveraux of 
WRCT-FM, the Bang Gang took the stage. 
The disco performance by the four guys 
was obviously well rehearsed, but was on 
the simple side,and again went longer than 
it should have. Their score tallied to a 14.
Surviving only a few seconds longer 
than the Tartones, the WRCT Make Believe 
Band tuned up their kazoos and buzzed 
until well after they had been gonged.
George Gee and His Big Band \Vere the 
last act, and the one that most of the 
crowd came to see. The group of non
music majors began playing together only 
three weeks ago, but opened to spontane
ous applause with Moonlight Serenade. 
After the judges sat down from dancing 
with members of the audience and the 
deafening response died down, the band 
continued with In the Mood. They were 
rewarded with a standing ovation, and 
played String of Pearls as an encore.
The band was awarded the first place 
trophy for their perfect score of 30 with 
second prize going to Benetta Chisholm.
The timing of the release of this record 
is, at the very least, puzzling. After a long 
stretch without any output by the trio, 
Duke was released almost simultaneously 
with solo albums by both Banks and 
Rutherford. In light of the quality (or 
lack thereof) of these products, and the 
on the AM airwaves, and could be a 
source of great embarrasssment to veteran 
fans.
soaring price of vinyl, anyone who would 
expect all three recordings to sell well 
should be given a saliva test. Indeed, by 
spreading themselves so thin, Genesis may 
have worn out their welcome.
The Silencers
by Ervin Lee
This Friday night, April 25, the CMU 
community will be treited to a perfor
mance by one of the best local rock acts 
The Silencers. This quintet, which can be 
seen regularly at Fat City, points some 
deep musical roots in a new direction.
The leaders of the group are vocalist 
Frank Zuri and guitarist Warren King, 
formerly of the home-grown (but now de
funct) Diamond Reo. Drummer Ronnie 
Foster has recorded three albums with Roy 
Buehanon. The Silencers play kick-ass 
cover songs by artists such as The Kinks and 
The Rolling Stones as well as unique 
originals. The band has recently recorded 
an album which will be released by Warner 
Bros, in early June. Dont miss the oppor
tunity to see a fine rock and roll show for 
free, at eight PM in the Margaret Morrison 
courtyard.
ICELANDAIR TO EUROPEOft A ___________BIG BIRD
AND ALOW EWE
499*533
Roundtrip from 
New York 
to Luxembourg
Roundtrip 
from Chicago 
to Luxembourg
Mo restrictions
Confirmed reservations* free wine with dinner, cognac after 
no restrictions on stays to 1 yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid 
from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and 
prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase 
tickets in the U.S.
See your travel ageni or write Dept. #CN 
Icelandair P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.
Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
toll-free number in you
Please send me: ? An Icelandair flight timetable.
? Your European Vacations brochure.
Name_____________________________________________________
Address__________________________________________________
Cirv_____________________________________________________
n
State.Zip_ICELANDAIRStill your best value to Europe *

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - April 22,1980
album review
God Save The Queen & Under Heavy Manners
by Dave Kirby
As a self-styled maverick in this cynical 
world of music, Robert Fripp is making a 
renewed effort to break down the pillars of 
conventional artist-audience relationships. 
A formidable task, to say the least, and if it 
were attempted by someone of less vision 
or sincerity than Fripp, the forces of 
stodgy convention might win hands down. 
As it is, Fripp succeeds to an admirable 
extent.
God Save The Queen and Under Heavy 
Manners is Fripps latest release, and 
though it might be chillier and more alien
ating than last years Exposure, it is cer
tainly more consistent and intriguing, in 
its various musical excursions. (Lest the 
unsuspecting record-buyer be misled, each 
side of the new LP has a title all its own)
On the new record, Fripp expounds 
upon his technique of Frippertronics, a 
tape delay method of gradually layering a 
track, that has appeared in snippets on 
albums by Peter Gabriel, Daryl Hall and 
others. This technique came to Fripp via
his friend and musical cohort Brian Eno, 
whose own work in ambient music pre
ceded and heavily influenced Fripps. 
Frippertronics has the peculiar character
istic of sounding both incredibly austere 
and somehow soothing at the same time, 
and if theres any real conflict in Fripps 
work, it lies in this dual nature of his 
discipline.
Side One, God Save The Queen, is pure 
Frippertronics, three tracks, and the un
suspecting listeners may be immediately 
struck by its slow, unhurried unraveling. 
Boring may not be inappropriate as an im
mediate response, but its incredible 
breadth and subtlety is bound to reveal it
self eventually to the listener. 1983 may 
work best on this side, involving a number 
of diverse sounds and a quicker develop
ment pattern. Although far from rowdy, 
its the least subtle and most dynamic of 
the strictly Frippertronics side. As a re
viewer, I feel an obligation to point out 
that some wont be able to tell the differ
ences in the tracks. Only after a number of
close listenings will the distinct character
istics of the cuts reveal themselves.
Side Two, Under Heavy Manners, is 
similar, but also involves a basic disco 
accompanyment that anchors Fripp's com
positions and. tends to give them a direc
tion. The title track to this side also 
features a somewhat depressing and vague
ly suicidal poem by Fripp, sung in mani
acal breathlessness by David Byrne. Again, 
this calls forth the desperation of Expo
sure, though Byrnes vocals are more dis
jointed and paranoic than Daryl Halls
The Zero of the Signified is the long
est. cut on the whole album, pushing 13 
minutes, and might be the most approach
able. With the steady, almost metronomic, 
accompanyment behind him, Fripp returns 
to manual guitar, and puts in one of the 
finest solo performances of his career. The 
long instrumental finally winds down as 
Fripps electronics turn to sonic and tonal 
washes, and at the conclusion, the listener 
truly feels as if hes been somewhere. A
rare quality in musical adventures like this.
For some reason, though, Fripp at
tempts to justify his admittedly austere 
technique and approach with tortuously 
long and somewhat pretentious album 
notes; he tells us why its alright to make 
boring music if the listener really thinks its 
boring, and why its important if he 
doesnt. The history of Frippertronics, as 
well as the basis for the breakup of King 
Crimson, is included, and thats nice to 
have, but the rest is obscure, cynical, and 
fairly irrelevent if you happen not to care 
about the vampiric relationship between 
artist and audience. For an audience of 
one, Fripp makes his point with his music, 
and thats all that matters; the rest he 
could save for his live audiences.
Under Heavy Manners/God Save The 
Queen is Robert Fripp playing guitar and 
tape recorder, and though it doesnt reach 
out and grab you by the hair, or inspire a 
spontaneous beer bash, it should be 
counted as one of the years best, or at 
least one of the year's most courageous.
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW GM "PROJECT CENTERS" CREATE CARS
FROM CONCEPT TO CUSTOMER IN THREE YEARS AND THREE BILLION DOLLARS
Throughout the history of 
the automobile industry, prod
uct change was almost always 
evolutionary. But in 1973, GM 
determined that the times re
quired revolutionary changes. It 
started its first Project Center 
which by itself heralded a revo
lution in the use of science and 
technology to meet the chang
ing demands of the market
place. A few -months later, the 
Arab countries launched the oil 
embargo. Fortunately, machin
ery was already in motion in 
GM to create and develop new 
cars and components in a new 
way and faster than ever before.
GMs first Project Center 
brought out totally new fullsize cars: smaller, yet roomier, 
and far more efficient than their 
predecessors. The advertise
ments said they were "designed 
and engineered for a changing 
world"and they were. Another 
Project Center, begun in 1975. 
developed the immensely popu
lar GM X-cars.
Led by the five car divi
sions, Project Centers gather 
people, ideas, and knowledge 
from all 30 divisions and staffs 
of General Motors. In the first 
stage, which we call "concepting." experimental engineers, 
environmental scientists, for
ward planners, and marketing 
experts pool their thinking. 
Their obj#* what the mar
ketplace w hi require. This is the 
most important stage. Here we 
must determine not only what
kind of car. but how7 many we 
might be able to build and sell 
years later. Economics, cus
tomer tastes, availability of 
various kinds of fuels must be 
compared with state-of-the-art 
technologyand what steps 
must be taken to advance that 
technology quickly yet surely.
In the "concepting" stage, 
a new car is conceived. If the car 
is to be sold to customers three 
years later, construction of newr 
plants must begin and basic 
tooling must be ordered.
The second phase of the 
Project Center takes 24 to 30 
months. It encompasses devel
opment. design, structural 
analysis, handling analysis, 
emissions, noise and vibration, 
safety, reliability, serviceability 
and repairability. manufactur
ing. assembly, marketing, fi
nancing.
Advanced product engi
neers and research scientists 
work with the one hundred fifty 
to two hundred people at the 
Project Center and thousands 
more in the staffs and divisions 
to transfer new science and 
technology to the new car. Com
ponents are hand-built and 
"cobbled" into existing models 
for road testing.
Prototype cars are handbuilt at a cost of more than 
$250,000 each. These enable 
the Project Center team to de
termine how newly developed, 
pretested components ojxjrate 
as a unit. Then, pilot models will 
be built from production tooling 
and tested some more. New 
technology, such as structural 
analysis by computer, saves
time. Lead time has been re
duced by 25^? from ten years 
ago, w'hen cars were far less 
complex.
After almost four million 
miles, nearly three billion dol
lars, and nearly three years of 
work, the new cars-quite un
like anything before them 
start coming off the production 
line at a rate of better than one a 
minute.
There are now eight 
Project Centers in General 
Motors. Four are developing 
new cars using hydrocarbon 
fuels, one is creating an electric 
car, and others are working on 
computerized engines and 
emission controls, a new kind of 
automatic transmission, and the 
inflatable restraint system.
New and revolutionary 
cars can't be mass produced for 
the road overnight. But by put
ting all the parts of General 
Motors to work together, we 
found a way to speed up the 
process. We have integrated the 
creativity of thousands of 
human minds to make invention 
into reality when its needed.
This advertisement is part of our 
continuing effort to give custom
ers useful information about 
their cars and trucks and the 
company that builds them.
General Motors
People building transportation 
to serve people

---------------------------------------------------

Pika rolls to Sweepstakes title in record
by Wes Seeley
White Lightning, the new Pika buggy 
that had everyone talking during free roll, 
did not disappoint as it rolled to a decisive 
victory in this years Sweepstakes, shatter
ing the old course record in the process. 
Pikas opening day run of 2:15.4 took 
more than two seconds off the old mark. 
Pikas run in Fridays eleventh heat high
lighted the first day of runs that featured 
several very fast runs and only one minor 
mishap.
The fast times started coming early in 
the day with SAEs Intrepid turning in a 
2:28.6 in the third heat. Pikas C buggy 
came in second in that heat with a time of 
2:29.9 but was disqualified when the hill 
5 pusher was not touching the buggy when 
it crossed the finish line.
Pikas Python, until this year, their 
number one buggy, turned in the next sub2:30 run of the afternoon in the sixth heat 
when it ran the circuit in 2:26.3.
After heats seven and eight, which saw 
Betas B team and SDC turn in fine 
times, CIAs Black Magic rolled up to the 
line and, mainly on the strength of their 
fine push team, chalked up a time of 
2:21.0. This time, with only three heats 
remaining, gave the independants thoughts 
of a first seeding in the fianls.
Their lead was intact after heat ten 
which had the only accident of the day 
In the first part of the free roll down 
Schenley Drive, Sigma Nus buggy, ESP, 
and Phi Kaps Shadow had a confronta
tion and, while no contact was made, Phi 
Kap contended that their buggy was cut 
off. Their protest was upheld and they 
were permitted a rerun in the finals Satur
day. ESP went on to post a fine time of 
2:26.5. They were allowed to keep the
time
The push off hill two that sent White Lightning on its amazing free roll.
The brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha celebrate their buggy victory.
DNF
2:15.4
2:40.7
2:31.1
2:20.8
234.5
Pika's hill five pusher guided White Lightning to its record-breaking 2:15.4 time.
PIKA D 
SDC D
SAE C 
TX B
:  :FRIDAY'S RUNS
WAC 
SAE A
SDC B
KS A 
PI LAM B 
CIA B
FRINGE A 
A
DTD B 
PIKA B
BETA C
DQ
2:23.6
3:14.1
2:53.2 
3 18,0 
2:33.4
2:40.4
2:49,6
2:57.8
2:51.3
2:26.3
2:50.9
ATOB
SNA
DU A 
PIKA A
SAE B
DTD A 
BETA A
ATOA
DNF*
2:47.0
2:26.5
time despite the protest and qualified for 
the finals.
In heat eleven, White Lightning turned 
in its record run on the strength of its amazing rolling capability. Rich Kozar, 
Pikas hill three pusher, did not have to 
pick up the buggy until it had rolled more 
than a third of the way up the hill. That 
roll, plus some excellent pushes, made Pika 
the team to beat on Saturday.
The last heat on Friday put the defend
ing champions, Beta, and their Echo buggy 
on the starting stripe. Echo turned in a 
time of 2:20.8 to place second overall on 
the day.
That set the six competitiors for Satur
days finals as first, Pika A; second, Beta A; 
Third, CIA A; fourth, Pika B; fifth, Sigma 
Nu A; and sixth, SAE A.
:40.0 
3:06.3
3:30,5
3:14.0
3:39.9
PfCTA
SAB A 
CiAA
2:30.6
2:27.4
2:18.7
2:22.5 * 
2:18.0
2:16.4 \ 
2:24.2
Saturdays competition opened up with 
four heats of alumni races and, when the 
dust had settled, Beta had taken the crown 
with a time of 2:39.1. Pikas 2:42.8 was 
second and third place went to Delta Tau 
Delta with a 2:45.0.
The next order of business was the battle 
for the womens crown and the title went 
to CIA as their women pushed Synergy 
in at 3:06.3. SDCs A buggy checked 
in second with a time of 3:14.0 and Sigma 
Nu was third.
That left only the mens finals to be 
completed. The first run was that of Phi 
Kap who had been given the rerun the day 
before. They ran against a team of Phi 
Kap alumni and it almost cost them dearly 
as on the push off at the crest of hill two, 
the two buggies came together, injuring the 
driver for the alumni. The regular Phi Kap 
buggy came in with a time of 2:30.6
The first scheduled final run saw SAE 
go up against CIA. The cigar-shaped Black 
Magic buggy came in first with the spec
tacular time of 2:18.7. That time, which 
any other year would have been nearly 
impossible to match, was not unbeatable 
this time around.
Betas Echo matched up with Pikas B 
buggy in the second heat and came across 
at 2:18.0 thanks, not only to the strong 
pushes that it always has, but also to its 
tremendous roll that surprised even their 
hill three pusher.
Despite the two fine runs that came in 
the first two races, the day was Pikas. 
Proving that the first days run was no 
accident, they turned in another fine time, 
2:16.4, in their run with Sigma Nu.
The two amazing runs of White Light
ning, the slower of which was still more 
than a second better than anyone elses 
fastest, will most certainly have other 
buggy chairmen thinking about how to 
keep Pika from running away with the 
buggy competition in the next few years.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20 - TARTAN - April 29, 190
SPRINGTIME IS PICTURE TIME AT
FOR SAME DAY HIGH QUALITY PRINTS STOP IN AT ASA-PHOTO AND WATCH US DEVELOP THEM AS SOON AS POSSIBLE"
We do instant passport photos while you wait 
no appointment necessary
SAME DA Y EKTACHROME 
SAME DAY KODACOLOR
3527 Forbes Ave
ACROSS FROM PARKVALE SAVINGS
The Tartans were led by strong perfor
mances by Joe Goldcamp, Avi Orenstein 
and Dario Donatelli. Goldcamp set a new 
school record in the intermediate hurdles 
with a time of 56.4 seconds. He also won 
the high hurdles, placed third in the javelin 
and ran a leg for the victorious mile relay 
team. Orenstein tied for first in the 100 
yard dash with Joe Giansante, and handly 
won the 220 yard dash. Donatelli cruised 
to impressive victories in the 880 yard, 
mile and three mile runs.
Tri-captain George Canepa led the Tar
tan charge through the field events with his 
win in the triple jump with his leap of 44 
feet. Vic Parrots jump of 20 feet, five 
inches was enough for a victory in the long 
jump and Chris Grinnell took top honors in 
the shot put with a heave of 44 feet, eight 
inches. The mile relay team of Goldcamp, 
Fran Dobscha, Mark Krein and Ken Hallinan won its event with a time of 3:31.0.
The next action for the Tartan track
men will be tomorrow afternoon at 3:00 
against Hiram at Tech Field. Their final 
meet of the season will be held next 
Saturday at home with the Tartans two 
toughest opponents, Allegheny and 
Bethany. That will leave on the PAC cham
pionships which will be held at Hiram on 
May 2 and 3.
The Tartans have had no trouble running with their PAC competition to date. Saturday they face their toughest testAllegheny and Bethany at home 
at 2:00.
TOP TARTAN FINISHERS
100 yard dash1, Orenstein, 10.3. 1 (tie), 
Giansante, 10.3. 3, Cureton, 10.4.
3 (tie), Wooldridge, 10.4.
220 yard dash-1, Orenstein,223.2, Wool
dridge , 23.4. 3, Cureton, 23.5.
440 yard dash - 2, Halinen, 52.3. 3, Loomis 
53.9.
880 yard run1, Donatelli, 2:00. 3. 3, 
Lentz, 2:02.0.
One Mile Run-1, Donatelli, 4:31.8 
2,Wachter,4:37.5.
Three Mile Run-1, Donatelli, 15:16.9.
2, Knapp, 15:44.0.
High Hurdles-1, Goldcamp, 15 2
3,Gannis,16.1.
Intermediate Hurdles1, Goldcamp, 56.4 
(new CMU-Tech Field record). 2, Delo, 
59.0. 3, Gannis, 60.1.
Mile Relay1, Carnegie-Mellon (Goldcamp, Shot Put-1, Grinnell, 44 - 8.
Dobscha, Krein, Halliman), 3:31.0 Discus2, Hall, 129 - 1.
Pole Vault3, Lynch, 12-0. Javelin2, Conrad, 174 -6.3, Goldcamp,
High Jump-2, Walch, 6-0. 166-1.
Long Jump1, Parrott, 20-5. 3Jaworski, Triple Jump1, Canepa, 44 - 0. 2, Par19 -5. rott, 41 -10.
Netters share conference lead
CMUs tennis team remained undeafeted 
for the conference schedule last week with 
a victory over Case Western last Wednesday 
and one over Hiram on Saturday. The score 
in both matches was 7-2. The win over 
Case was the Tartans first in eight years 
over the Spartans, who have been Pres
idents Athletic Conference champions for 
each of those years.
The Tartan season, so far, has been 
highlighted by the play of Mike Straub, 
John Sze, and Chris Kopchak. Straub and 
Sze are undefeated in singles play. Kopchak 
is six and one on the season.
Carnegie-Mellons final home match of 
the season will be on Wednesday at 1:00 
against Thiel. They close the season on 
Saturday at Allegheny. The Gators are 
also undefeated to date.
Camegie-Mellon 7 Hiram 2
John Kerr(H) defeated Greg Miscarnick, 6-2, 6-3.
Jim Silvey (CMU) defeated Rich Henry, 
6-0, 6-3.
Brian Wolf (CMU) defeated Kevin 
Erosky, 6-2, 6-3.
Chris Kopchak (CMU) defeated John 
Bray, 6-2, 5-7, 6-2.
Mike Straub (CMU) defeated Jim 
Morton, 7-5, 6-4.
John Sze (CMU) defeated Kevin Duthrie, 
6-0, 6-4.
Kerr-Bray (H) defeated Miscarnick-Silvey
6-2, 6-3,
Wolf-Straub (CMU) defeated EroskeyHenry, 6-3, 6-2.
Kopchak-Henry Chung (CMU) defeated 
n-Scott Karl, 6-3,4-6, 6-2.
Jim Silvey defeated Rich Henry of Hiram last Saturday, 6-0, 6-3. He will be playing second singles against 
Thiel and Allegheny this week.
I MQOOQOOOQQMQOQQOOQOQQQQOOOOOO 00000 000 00000000 000 00 00 00 00 0000 00 QQQQQSLM&iMMMMMMMMMMMllMiMiflAM&OCA^" CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
flQOOOQtOOQOOOOOOOQOOOOOQOOQQgjUMmMmMMMMMMjMmMMMMMMMMMflilOOQggOOQQOQQQQQOQOOOQQOOOOOOOO
by Dario Donatelli
Track menstay undefeated with wins over Thiel, JCU
The Camegie-Mellon track team contin
ued its domination of the Presidents Ath
letic Conference by scoring two decisive 
victories last Saturday in their double dual 
meet. The Tartans rolled over John Carroll 
11046 and downed Thiel 107^-37!^. The 
win made the Tartans record four wins and 
no losses in the dual meets.

---------------------------------------------------

-April 22, 1980 - TARTAN - Page 21
------- --------------------x
Computer Science and jEngineering Graduates I
A Mutual Investment Plan for Your Career I
i iI
I
What you can learn about us may well be the answer to your career 
needs. Our business is the development of sophisticated banking and 
brokerage systems for the worlds financial institutions, complex 
intelligence systems for government and military application, deep 
ocean sonar surveillance systems, electrical and electronic 
components, deep pile fabrics and much more.
At Bunker Ramo, we recognize that meeting the challenge for the 
future lies in our ability to continually attract and develop new talent. 
As a result, were dedicated to this fundamental concept: by investing 
in your future, we can achieve a significant return on our own, and 
that's one of the best investments we can make.
Were a Fortune 500, multi-national corporation, with locations 
throughout the United States and abroad, and sales nearing $5(X) 
million per year. We are not so large that we don't know our people 
well, but large enough to provide excellent opportunities for those 
willing to invest their talents in us.
If you'd like to find out more about how we can fit into your plans, 
please send us your resume:
Bunker Ramo Corporation 
Career Opportunities 
900 Commerce Drive 
Oak Brook. Illinois 60521
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER <M F>
BUNKER
RAMO
Gene Hetzer, zone manager of the Chevrolet Motor Division. The presentation was made at the 
City of Champions Soorts Night held last Sunday. A review of the event that benefitted the Jimmy 
Camegie-Mellon football coach Chuck Klausing (left) receives his Coach of the Year trophy from. 
Starr Scholarship Fund will appear in next week's TARTAN. ____________________________
.............................................................................................il
|M track meet this Thursday
by Leslie Weiser
intramural sports are winding down to 
a close but there are still lots of announce
ments.
Softball intramurals are under way; 
please remember to write the winning team 
and the score on the score sheet. There 
cannot be any postponed games. Check the 
I M. bulletin board for the playoff sched
ule. The commissioners for softball:
I Majors  Mike Pochan  683-0372 
Intermediate  Dave Hofmeister 
578-4007 
Minors - Wes Seeley - 578-4004 
Womens  Mariano DeFilippo 
5784002
Please get the games played and scores 
1 turned in for all of these sports: Team 
I Badminton, Bridge, Co-Rec Table Tennis, 
i Individual Table Tennis, and Call Pool.
I Fencing intramurals are coming up very 
soon. The mens and womens foil will be 
I held Tuesday, April 22 at 5 PM in Thistle 
Hall. Miss Fisk is the fencing commissioner.
Please turn in your votes for All-school
I and Most' Valuable Player awards for 
basketball. Also, all board members should 
submit their votes for the 1980-81 intraI mural board president and Intramural 
I Person of the Year._______________
The Intramural Track Meet will also be 
held on Thursday, April 24 at 4:30 PM on 
the CMU track. Here is a list of events and
their approximate times:
Shot Put........................................4 30
High Jump......................................4:30
Long Jump.....................................4:30
100 yard Low Hurdles...................4:45
880 yard Relay.............................5:00
Mile Run........................................5:10
100 yard Dash.............................5:20
440 yard Dash.............................5:35
880 yard Run..............................5:45
220 yard Dash...............................6:00
Mile Relay..................................... 6:15
Scoring  6 places (10,8,6,4,2,1)
There will be women only heats in every 
event. The track commissioner is Craig 
Woolheater who can be reached at 
682-7088.
The last big event of the intramural 
season is the Intramural Dinner. It will be 
held on Tuesday,'April 29 in Room 100, 
Skibo. There will be a social hour from 
5:30 to 6:30 and dinner will be at 6:30 
sharp. To reserve your spot for the I.M. 
Dinner sign up in the intramural office, 
Room 104, Gym.
NOW OPEN
The Munhall Golf 
DRIVING RANGE
NOT SOFAST
Youll get about 20 
more miles from every tank 
of gas if you slow down 
from 70 to 55 mph on the 
highway. For a free booklet 
with more easy ways to 
save energy and money, 
write Energy, Box 62,
Oak Ridge, TN 37830. '
ENERGY.We can't afford to waste it.
U.S. Department of Energy
461-9246
Under New Management
HOMESTEAD-DUQUESNE
ROAD
Only a short 10-minute drive from 
Squirrel Hill -
DIRECTIONS
Across Homestead Hi-Level Bridge. 
Straight ahead up the hill (West St.) 
past Homestead Hospital. Turn left 
at Bi-Rite Gas Station to Homestead-Duquesne Rd., Range is % 
mile on the left.
11 a.m.-H p.m.
OPEN EVERY DAY

---------------------------------------------------

BEFORE YOU NERD OUT
BLOWOUT!
From the People Who Brought You The
IRON CITY HOUSEROCKERS 
and 
THE PASSION PARTY
Activities Board Now Brings You The
END OF THE YEAR
BLOWOUT!
FRIDAY, APRIL 25th, 8:00 P.M. 
MARGARET MORRISON APARTMENTS 
COURTYARD
Featuring
"THE SILENCERS"
Pittsburgh's Newest and Hottest Rock n' Roll Band
With Special Guests
THE CLIQUE"
RAIN LOCATION: MOREWOOD REC. ROOM
Presented by AB Lectures  AB Dance  SDC Programming  And The 
Residents of Margaret Morrison Apartments
Funded by Student Activities Fee 
Organized by Mike Jamgochian, Ervin Lee, Ken Cohen

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
in DH 2210 
Aprii 24 at 6,8, and 10 PM
High Noon
Aprii 25 at 6,8,10, and 12 PM
Love At First Bite
theater
April 19-23,8 and 10 PM
CMU professor Gregory Lehane stars in 
Samuel Beckett's one-act play, Krapp's 
Last Tape, at the Lion Walk performing 
Arts Center. Seating is limited; reservations 
are advised. 621-7887 for information.
April 22-27 
Stanley Theater
The Blackstone Circus of Illusions, starring 
Harry Blackstone, will be appearing at the 
Stanley. Blackstone will perform nine 
shows with 8 PM shows Tuesday through 
Saturday, matinees at 2 PM Wednesday and 
Saturday, 3 PM on Sunday and a special 
Children's Edition performance at 10:30 
AM on Thursday. Tickets are available at 
the Stanley box office, Kaufmann's, by 
Phone-lt at 765-2266, and by mail. Group 
discounts are available by calling 391 -5074.
Through May 3 
Footlight Dinner Theater
CMU students Gregg Kirsopp, Debbie 
Pollack, Robby Marshall and John 
McDaniel star in Five, Six, Seven, Eight, a 
revue of current Broadway tunes. At the 
Old Allegheny (next to Heinz Hall). 281 - 
0803 for reservations and information.
April 9May 18 
Pittsburgh Public Theater
The Public's final production of the 1979- 
80 season is Mac Beth, one of Shakespeare's 
darkest tragedies. Performances at the
Allegheny Theater. 323-1900 for tickets 
and information.
May 2 thru 4 and 9 thru 11
The Allegheny Repertory Theatre will be 
presenting its first production, The Trans
figuration of Benno Blimpie by Albert 
Innavrato (also the author of Gemini). The 
performances will be in the Pitt Studio 
Theatre, in the basement of the Cathedral 
of Learning in Oakland. For reservations 
and other box office information, call the 
Studio Theatre at 624-6587.
April 25-26 
Iron Clad Agreement
A double bill of original plays: My Dear 
Sisters, CMU professor James Rosenberg's 
play about the Grimke Sisters, early social 
reformers, and 57 by Two, a Vaudeville 
treatment of the life of H.J. Heinz, the 
famous food processor. At the Lion 
Walk on Baum Boulevard. 731-2445 for 
tickets and information.
April 17-26
CMU Drama Department 
The Lady From the Sea by Henrik Ibsen 
stars Catherine Haun as a wife who dreams 
of her former lover' and feels trapped in 
her marriage. Adapted by graduate playwrighting student Neil A. Ward. At the 
Kresge Theater. Free tickets at drama 
box office.
April 30 at 8 PM
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Nan Mouskori in concert. Ms. Mouskori 
has toured all over the world, and will be 
performing vocal works in Greek, French, 
and English. Tickets may be purchased at 
Heinz Hall or Kaufmann's for $11.00, 
$9.00, and $7.00. For more information, 
call 621-9893.
Through May 3, Thurs-Sun 
University of Pittsburgh
Ronald A. Wisniski stars in the one-man 
show, Bully: An Adventure With Teddy 
Roosevelt. This acclaimed production
coming events
moves to the Mattress Factory on the 
North Side. 231-6036 for tickets and 
information.
April 25 and 26 at 8:00 PM
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will perform 
with Janet Gillespie and Present Company, 
and the Pittsburgh Black Theatre Dance 
Ensemble both evenings at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Craft Avenue Theatre. Tickets 
are available at the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council's office in Heinz Hall, or at the 
Craft Avenue box office on performance 
nights. For more information, call 355- 
0330.
E5E53HI
April 25,27 and 28
The Pittsburgh Symphony 'Pops' Orchestra 
will join with the Mendelssohn Choir and 
guest soloist for "An Evening of Lerner & 
Lowe" at Heinz Hall. Robert Page, Chair
man of the Music Department at CMU and 
Music Director of the Mendelssohn Choir, 
will conduct all three concerts. For more 
information, call 281-5000.
.ay 6 at 8 PM
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh will present 
Felix Mendelssohn's Elijah at the Church 
of the Ascension at the corner of Ellsworth 
and Neville Street. Tickets are $4 (stu
dents $3), and more information can be 
obtained by called 681-4302.
Julie Christie, James Mason, and Dyan Can
non.
April 23
Mean Streets directed by Martin Scorcese 
and starring Robert DeNiro.
April 24
Woman in the Dunes directed by Hiroshi 
Teshigahara.
April 25
The Onion Field directed by Harold Beck
er.
April 26
Women In Love directed by Ken Russell; 
starring Glenda Jackson, Oliver Reed, and 
Alan Bates.
April 27
Breakfast at Tiffany's directed by Blake 
Edwards and starring Audrey Hepburn and 
George Peppard.
arts
April 28 thru May 9
"Prospectus 80," a show by CarnegieMellon senior Design students, will be on 
exhibit at the Design Center, 5001 Baum 
Boulevard, Oakland. The show opens at
7 PM April 28 and continues Monday 
through Friday from 9 AM to 5 PM.
filmswrct
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
Showings at 7:30 and 9:30 at the Craft 
Ave. Playhouse, except when noted. 11:30 
late show on Friday and Saturday. 2:00 
matinee oo-Saturday and Sunday.
April 22
Heaven Can Wait starring Warren Beatty,
April 22 at 8 PM 
Profiles on Parade
An intimate interview with George Gee, 
WRCT program manager director, DJ, Big 
Band enthusiast and aspiring Big Band dir
ector.
JL%* .%% A?v *  
;XvA
;!vl;
.V.
yy.
$>vv
&s.-:
y :A

SS
*%
y V
KffMf^
CONGRATULATIONS
To Dave Mongeau and 
The Spring Carnival Committee
Thanks for bringing 
The Big Apple to Steel City
the TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

classified
Three bedroom, carpeting, appliances
laundry heat paid. From $389. Available 
May, June, and September. 682-7010. 
Shadyside-two and three bedroom luxury
apts. Equipped kitchen, dishwasher, dis
posal; a/c,w/w, fireplace, bay window, 
security door. $325-$375 plus gas and 
electric. Available May-Sept. Now taking 
applications 3-5 PM 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
Lauren and Les Suisses
Merci beaucoup pour la surprise party. Je 
vous aime. The C.I.A.
Male roommate to share Shadyside apart
ment. 2 BR, furnished, fireplace in bed
room. 687-7739 after 7 PM. Ask for Jim or 
Sam. $150/month.
TYPING. Experienced. My Home. SelectricII. 521-7888.
Lunch-Lutheran University Center, 4515
Forbes. Mon-Fri. 11:30-1:15. Soup, sand
wich or salad, dessert, beverage, $1.25. 
Everyone welcome.
GIRLS... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A
SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION ? 
Applicants are now being considered for 
the 1980 camp season. Must be able to 
teach one of the following: Arts & Crafts, 
Arts & Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing, Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General 
Athletics. COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, 
must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for 
activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise 
large staff. Write Camp Office, 6410 
Beacon St., Pittsburgh, Pa., 15217, or 
phone, 412-521-2376.
Silver coins wanted. Highest prices. After
5 PM. 521-2749.
College Students'  Summer Jobs!!
Interviewing and reserving now for full
time/part-time local work, Pittsburgh, and 
surrounding counties. Car necessary, start 
at $5.83/hr., hours flexible. Call (12 noon 
to 4 PM) Monday through Saturday. 
682-6127.
FOR RENTOakland area. Furnished 2
and 3 bedroom apartments plus one room. 
Convenient for 14 students. Available May 
1 or Sept. 1. For more information call 
655-1872 after 6 PM.
Intermedia will be filming an art event in
Shenley Park Thursday May 1st. We need 
bagpipe players to cameo in performance. 
Contact D. Poche, X 5987 or leave a 
message with Helen in the Art Dept, office. 
High school ring found. Call X 4348. 
Hazelwood apartment. 3 rooms and bath. 
$150/month plus utilities. Woman pre
ferred. Call 665-5654 ir 421 -8682.
LOST: Young, teenage cat. Black with 
white paws and face. Lost in the vicinity 
of Doherty Apts. Sat. April 19th (during 
Spring Carnival). If you know of the 
whereabouts or can give any information 
please call 578-4290. Very important. 
REWARD
Summer Housing - Single: $110/month,
double: $80/month per person. DTD
682-9166. Ask for Don.
'rsr
TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED: Ex
cellent high paying Summer jobs (clubs, 
resorts, camps) available through Washing
ton Tennis Services for students with 
tennis playing or teaching experience. Call 
Mr. Covyeau at (301) 654-3770.
THANK YOU for being the sweetest and 
most thoughtful friends I could ask for - 
you made my "20th the best. Love, 
Kathy K.
Want it done right? Professional typing, ed
iting prepared by PhD graduate. Manu
scripts, term papers, theses, dissertations. 
IBM Selectric. Prompt, efficient, reason
able. Convenient location. Susan, 281-5222. 
For sale: Harman Kardon 230E stereo re
ceiver, Sankyo STD-1700 stereo cassette 
deck, two SB-1100 Panasonic Thrusters. 
$350.00. 621-7252-John.
Research Assistant needed to schedule and 
run subjects in computer-controlled exper
iments. If interested, please contact Profes
sor John Anderson, Psychology Depart
ment, X2788.clubs
COCO (Commuter 8c Off-Campus Organ
ization) has established a set meeting time 
and place: Wednesdays at 11:30 AM, Skibo
11. Work is beginning on a lounge and 
office spaceAll are invited to come and 
help. Bring your lunch and come to 
tomorrow's meeting; we'd be glad to have 
you.
The Astronomy Club meets Wednesday at
7:30 PM in Science Hall 7421. If weather 
permits, the ten-inch reflector will be used 
for observations. For further information, 
leave name and telephone number in the 
club mailbox. Physics Department (SCH 
7322). Everbody is welcome.
The Art Sac will be selling fresh brewed 
coffee, tea, cocoa, and doughnuts every 
Monday through Wednesday mornings 
9-11:30 in the lobby of the 3rd floor, 
Fine Arts. Proceeds will finance the 
Fine Arts Film Series. '
The CMU Chess Club meets Tuesday eve
nings at 7:30 at Antonino's on Craig street. 
Those interested are invited to attend. 
Bring a set and board if you have one.
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office on Thursday April 24. Stu
dents who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to 
set up an appointment. It is hoped that this 
program will be a benefit to both the pres
ident and the students in allowing students 
direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Spanish SPI STUDENTS: The final testing 
period for Self-Paced spanish will be on 
April 28, 29, and 30 in the language lab, 
310 Margaret Morrison Hall. No tests will 
be given during the final exam period due 
to closing of the language lab. My office
hours are Tuesdays, 1:30 to 3:30, Baker 
Hall Rm 232C. Lisa Fedorka-Carhuaslla. 
EXIT INTERVIEWS FOR ALL MAY 1980
GRADUATES with National Direct/De
fense Student Loans will be hold from 
April 21 thru April 25. Interviews will also 
be held for any NDSL borrower who, 
although not graduating, will not be re
turning for the Fall 1980 semester. The 
interviews will last approximately five 
minutes and will be scheduled as follows: 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse, 
Monday thru Friday, 9 AM to 4 PM. If 
unable to attend or for more information 
call Mr. Rapin, 578-2094 or come to the 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse.general
"Shakespeare: The Folger Library comes
to Pittsburgh" will be the topic of a lunch
eon forum by Beekman Cottrll of the En
glish Department and Heien Moore. The 
forum will be held on Thursday, April 24 
at 12:30 PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, 
and is sponsored by Campus Program Plan
ning.
Hillel has applications for the National
Hillel Summer Institute to be held August 
20-27, 1980, in Starlight, Pa. The theme of 
the week will be JUDAISM IN TRAN
SITION. Deadline for the application is 
May 1.
Delta Upsilon Fraternity and Delta Delta
Delta Sorority of Carnegie-Mel Ion University 
are co-sponsoring an Olympic Day for home
less children on April 26. In the day-long 
event, one hundred boys an girls between 
the ages of 13 and 18 will participate in var
ious Olympic-type events including the tra
ditional track and field games and 'almost 
anything goes' type of events such as ob
stacle courses and 3 legged races. The event 
will take place from 12:30 PM to 3:30 PM 
on the CMU lawn between Skibo and War
ner Hall. In the event of rain, activities 
will be held in the Gym.
Celebrate Israel Independence Day. Come 
to Pittsburgh's Annual Salute to Israel 
Parade on Sunday, April 27. The parade 
will begin at 1:00 PM from the corner of 
Beacon and Wightman and will proceed to 
Frick Park. B'nai B'rith Hillel will be 
marching together with BBYO. The CMU 
Hillel Club will have a barbeque and elec
tions for next year's officers after the 
parade at Frick Park.
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation has summer job open
ings in its concert and film program. Appli
cants must have some knowledge of audio
visual equipment, be willing to work evenigs and weekends, and the ability to lift 
and carry heavy equipment. Those students 
who are interested, should send a resume 
to Christina Beaman, 400 City-County 
Building, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. Please re
member to include a current phone number 
on your resume. All applicants must be city 
residents and able to qualify under summer 
employment guidelines. For more informa
tion, Please call 255-2354.
Calliope House Inc. presents a benefit 
Fourth Annual Smokey City Folk Festival.- 
Devilish Merry and Dwayne Thorpe will
CARNIVAL
**----i t
BIG ONE
be presented on Sunday, April 27 at 7:00 
PM, at the Third Presbyterian Church at 
Fifth and Negley Avenues, in Shadyside. 
Donation is $5.00 and for more information, 
call 322-6359.
BE A BIG BROTHER OR BIG SISTER.
There is a boy or girl in the Pittsburgh 
area who needs just a little of your timeto know you care, to know you are there. 
Call Big Brothers and Sisters of Greater 
Pittsburgh, Inc., 621-6100.
Local artists and craftsmen are invited to 
exhibit and see their original work at the 
4th annual Highland Fling Arts & Crafts 
Festival on Sunday, June 29, in Highland 
Park (East End), the Fling will also host 
musicians, dancers, children's activities, a 
mini-marathon and food concessions. The 
Highland Park Community Club and the 
City of Pittsburgh Department of Parks & 
Recreation are co-sponsoring this popular 
event. For further information contact 
Nellie Curran, 1012 N. Sheridan Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 or call 363 - 0872. 
B'nai B'rith Hillel of Pittsburgh,the campus 
Jewish Student Organization seeks a parttime graphics/publicity person. The job in
cludes designing posters, flyers, invitations 
and program announcements; writing news 
releases; coordinating publicity of events 
with printers and new editors. Hours flexible. Contact Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, 621- 
8875 or 621-6500, ext. 77.
The T.C.A. Play Guild will be presenting 
their production of "Jesus Christ Superstar" April 24-26 at 8:30 PM in the Turtle 
Creek High School Auditorium. For reser
vations, please call 824-9273 or 824-4020. 
In advance, tickets will be $3.50/adults and 
$2.00/students. All seats are reserved.
National B'nai B'rith Hillel is sponsoring
four exciting programs for university stu
dents to experience and learn about Israel. 
It is possible to obtain from 3-6 units of 
college credit. Approximate cost of trips 
is $1,150, including airfare. Programs are:
I. Kibbutz Seminar;- II. Sephardic Culture
& Community; III. Political Culture and 
Ideaology; IV. Holocaust and Redemp
tion. For more information, pick up a 
brochure in the Hillel office, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Beliefield Avenue.
On April 24 at 8:45 PM The Pittsburgh 
Council American Youth Hostels will Pre
sent a canoeist who will introduce the 1980 
season by sharing slides of various water 
activities from the past year. At the Pitts
burgh A.Y.H., 6300 Fifthe Ave. The pro
gram is free and open to the general public.
Christians from all over the United States
are having a rally in Washington D.C.. April 
29, 1980 marks the day that over one mil
lion Christian people will gather in Washing
ton to pray, fast and meet with political 
leaders. Jim Laine, Pastor of Faith Com
munity and co-host of the Getting It To
gether Show on WPCB-TV Channel 40 ex
tends an invitation to ell churches and 
people to join him on the trip to Washing
ton. Transportation is being arranged so 
that the groups will arrive in time for the 
morning prayer and will depart after the 
communion service. Anyone interested call 
831 -1910 between 10 AM and 4 PM.
BIT THE 1
.- - . _____4
(Apple, that is) ]!, 
