pBASKET BALL 
[Schenley High Versus 
Plebes,: Jan. 20th.
VOL. XI. NO. 16(lari an
BAND CONCERT 
AND DANCE __ 
Carnegie Union, Jan. 19
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAJAN. 17, 1917
JUNIATA WHIPS TECB-ON TECH BAND, WHICH WILL GIVE CONCERT FRIDAY NIGHT ' HOME FLOOR 27-22
Tech Players Lack of CoOperation] Gives V isitors 
the Game
___________
Saturday evening the Tech basket 
hall fans hacl the displeasure of see
ing Carnegie nosed out of the most 
closely contested battle in some 
time. Yes, it may he called a battle, 
since it more nearly resembled a 
gridiron war than a basket ball "five 
on a gym floor. A glance at the 
number of fouls would not indicate 
a rough tussle but ii few fouls occur
red on both sides which were not 
called by the referee.
Techs downfall may be attributed 
to the lack of teamwork. Individual 
starring seemed to be the ambition 
of almost everyone on the team. 
Time after time Tech had the ball 
in their possession with a clear field 
and would throw their chances on 
an almost sure basket by a long shot 
from midfloor. This great misfor
tune was offset somewhat by the 
fight the plaid tossers showed 
throughout the entire game.
Owing to a sprained ankle Gretzler, 
' last weeks star at center, did not en
ter the game until the beginning of 
the second half. Cary and Toxen di
vided the first half at center, each 
man playing a good game but unable 
to get the jump on the wily Ju
niata nucleus. Captain Green did not 
 play up to his usual good form Sat
urday night and even mighty Nig 
eould not hit his stride, although he 
did walk half way up the side of the 
gym to pick one out of the air. 
Judging from all standpoints Abrams 
played the most consistent game for 
the plaid squad while the honors for 
Juniata must be divided between 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MORE MONEY FOR 
ACTIVITIES
M. M. C S. Activities Fee 
IncreasedTheChoral C'.ub 
Wants to Present Robin 
Hood
LETTER RECEIVED FROM 
I PITT STUDENT SENATE
--------------
A Misunderstanding About 
Midnight Frolic Cleared 
Up
-HOME CONCERT WILL BE HELD MARCH 0
Within the last few weeks, one oL 
our students, while delving in various, 
.musty documents relating to such mat
ters as the antiquity of man, the cen
sus reports before the flood and the 
birth certificates of Pitt football play
ers, discovered an old worm-eaten and 
faded papyrus which, after being 
translated, read as follows:
In the year of our Lord, 1905.
"We, a certain group of students of 
the Carnegie Technical Schools, have 
decided that the courses of instruction 
in this institution have a narrowing 
influence upon the human mind, that 
-they deaden one's sensibility to the 
pleasures of life, and that they tend 
to change the normal being into that 
loathsome, crawling animal, the book
worm.
Realizing these horrible conditions, 
we have ordained that an organization 
shall be formed, whose duty it shall be 
to appear before the student body on 
a certain' evening in March, on each 
and every year hereafter, and to pre
sent an entertainment which will 
cause the aforesaid students to forget 
the trials and tribulations of the days 
labor, and will force them to learn 
that after al'i there is. something in life 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The following letter was received by 
The Tartan in answer to an editorial 
appearing in The Tartan concerning 
the Victoria production:
University of Pittsburgh 
Student Senate 
Pittsburgh, Pa., Jan. 8, 1917. 
Mr. A. M. Staehle,
Editor Tartan.
Dear Mr. Staehle:
The attention of some of the mem
bers of the Student Senate having 
been directed to your editorial in ref
erence to the proposed performance at 
the Victoria Theater, I was instructed 
at the meeting of the Senate this 
morning to transmit the following 
statement to you:
In connection with the proposed 
Midnight Frolic, a misunderstanding 
exists both in Tech and Pitt regarding 
the purpose and management of the 
said show. The position of Tech has 
now been made clear by the editorial 
in The Tartan of this week; and the 
President of the Senate is hereby in
structed to transmit to the Editor of 
The Tartan the position of our Univer
sity as follows: That neither the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, the student body 
of same, nor any organization connect(Continued 'jn Page Two)
BAND TO GIVE THEIR SECONDANNUAL CONCERT AND DANCE
Aff.-iir Will Be Held on Friday Night, January 19, in the 
Carnegie Union in the Central Building
On Friday night, January 19, the un
iformed Tech Band will give a con
cert and dance in the Carnegie Union. 
This will be the second annual con
cert and dance given by this organi
zation of which Mr. E. F. Sullivan is 
director, and Andrews, '18, is manager. 
The concert will begin promptly at 
8:15. At 9:45 the dancing will begin, 
the music being a five-piece orchestra 
under the leadership of C. L. Boyle, 
'13. .
Last year the band gave a concert 
and dance, but due to a number of 
other affairs held on the same night 
the attendance was very poor. Those 
who did attend, however, were loud in 
their praise of the music rendered by 
the band and also of the dance held
afterwards.
The concert program is as follows: 
1. March, Iron King, St. Clair. 2. 
Overture, Golden Wand, Laurendeau. 3. Novelette, Apple Blos
soms, Engleman. 4. Waltz, Wed
ding of the Winds, I-Iall. 5. -Caprice, 
"Whistler and Ills Dog, Pryor. (>. 
Tone Poem, "Humoresque, Dvorak. 
7. Medley Selection, Sounds from the 
Sunny South, Isenman. 8. March, 
My Maryland, Panella.
The admission to the concert and 
dance is one dollar a couple. For the 
benefit of those who might care to go 
to the concert, but not for the dance, 
an admission of thirty-five cents each 
will be charged. Tickets may bo pro
cured from any of the band mem hers.
NEXT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
TO BE IN FEBRUARY
Arrangements are being made for 
the next general assembly or day stu
dents, which will be held in the Car
negie Music Hall about February 15. 
A general assembly of all the night 
students will be scheduled for the last 
of February. Deans Breed and Bossange will be in charge of the day as
sembly, and Messrs. Esquerre and 
Taft of the night one.
JUNIOR PROM DATE CHANGEDTO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD
Committee Is Rapidly ComPARTY FOR M.M.C. S. 
pleting Arrangements for JUNIOR CLASS
Largest Affair of Year
The Junior Prom. Committee has 
announced a change in their arrange
ments concerning the date set for the 
Prom. The fact that Wednesday, Feb
ruary 21, would be Ash Wednesday, 
was overlooked by the committee, 
which, in order that no student might 
feel any religious compunction in at
tending a dance on that evening, has I 
advanced the date to February 23, '17. | 
The music will be furnished by 
Nirella, who will supply eight musi
cians, led by Herbert Gilg. This is 
the same orchestra that furnished the 
music at the Design Costume Ball, on 
December 14, contributing in no small 
degree to the success of the affair. 
The Kuhn Catering Company, of East
Miss Lorine Freedman of 32G South 
Graham street, entertained the junior 
members of the Social Work depart
ment, at an informal dinner party at 
her home Friday evening, January 12. 
The evening was spent in a most en
joyable manner with dancing and 
playing of appropriate musical selec
tions.
INTERESTING ESQUISSE FOR CLASS B MEN
The* class B men took their esquisse for the next problem, last Fri
day afternoon. The subjects were: 
Class B, Analytique, "A Doorway, 
which more definitely designated an 
entrance to a governors room. The 
plan was a battalion armory. Both 
Liberty, lias been secured to serve the of these wilI hevery interesting and
supper. The high quality of service j 
(Continued on Page Three.)
will demand 
study.
lots of work and hard
JEi/S/SiSJSJSJSJ^IicIfS/IliSJclJniJnJcIiSinfSJSibiJUiniDlicL'L/tn/l/QlfiiliclQin fi^/SiiirtiLrtiiJ fli AI VOLVO.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
Pay up all I. 0. U.s promptly as it is now near 
the close of the first semester.
Students leaving school should drop tlie Tartan 
a letter giving their address and enclosing subscrip
tion card. The Tartan will be mailed each week to 
them;
The stubs of the old cards will lie exchanged for 
|j new cards for next semester.
ALL TRACK MEN CALLED INTER SCHOOL AND DOT FDR PRACTICE; CLASS BASKETBALL
Coach Eyman to Start SpeAH Classes of Each of the 
cializatiori in Various Lines; Three Schools to Be Rep
at Once resented
Beginning yesterday all track men 
are to report on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays to Coach Eyman who in
tends to start at once the specializa
tion in the various 'events. This 
summons also includes all polevaulters, high jumpers and weight men. 
A very interesting schedule has been 
arranged by Manager' Rembler and 
every man in school who has any 
ability at all in track work and also 
those who wish to become track j 
men should come out and help Mr. 
Eyman make this year the banner 
year for Carnegie Tech in track cir
cles.
The inter-school and class .basket
ball league is very nearly arranged, 
and every class which desires to 
compete in this series of contests 
should report to Mr. McCulloch at 
the gym immediately. Already the 
Junior and Senior Science classes and 
the Junior, Sophomore and Plebe 
classes of the Design school have sig
nified their intention to compete. It 
is desired to have all the classes of j 
all the schools represented, as it will 
give an unlimited opportunity for the 
men of each school to get acquainted 
with their fellow students.
ANNUAL SOPH HOP
IS BIG SUCCESS
Carnegie Union Crowded to 
Capacity Last Friday Ev
ening
The second anpual Sophomore hop, 
held last Friday evening, crowded 
Carnogie Union to its capacity. The 
hop was the greatest informal affair 
of the year, not only from a social 
standpoint, but also from a financial 
one. All the tickets woro sold and 
the sophomore classes of the four 
schools will realize a substantial sum.
The program consisted of twentyfour dances, mostly ono-stops and 
foxtrots, with a waltz put In occa
sionally. The music was all that 
could be expected and consisted of 
Bowens five-pleco orphestra.
All classes of the schools woro rep
resented by their respective presi
dents, who were Invltod as guests of 
the 19 class. The patrons and pa
tronesses woro: Dean Brood of M.
M. C. S., Dean and Mrs. Boaaange of 
Design school, Dean and Mrs. Oonnolloy of Industries school, Mr. and 
Mrs. Crabtroo of the Sclonco school, 
and Mr. Vick OBrien.
The committee for the dance was 
1. S. Stark, chairman; Miss Gladys 
Fleming, Miss Ruth Toborg, G. R. 
Brandln, .1. (J. Todd, C. 1C. Little, C. 
F. Soldol and T J. Williams. To 
these persons goes the credit for the 
success of the hop, a function that 
will go a long way towards bringing 
togethor the sophomore classes of the 
four schools.
MODEL BEING SHOWN FOR 
CEILING IIFJESIGN FOYER
The Hewlett Studios of New York 
City have on show in the small ex
hibition room of. Design school the 
models and sketches for the ceiling 
of the foyer of the Design school. 
The work on the ceiling itself is only 
partially completed, and from these 
models one may obtain a good idea 
of how the finished work will look.
The Student Activities Board held 
its monthly meeting last Wednesday, 
January 10, and at that time received 
two important reports. The first was 
that the Margaret Morrison school 
had decided to raise its activities fee 
from $1 to $2, half of which is to be 
paid to the Student Activities Board. 
Formerly the Margaret Morrison stu
dents paid nothing to the Activities 
treasury, and on that account they 
were denied the free use-of the Union. 
The present decision to double the 
fee will doubtless change that condi
tion.
The Activities Board then heard a 
report from Schtz, representing the 
Chdral Club. The club this year 
wishes to produce the opera, "Robin 
Hood, but will need an advancement 
of part of the cost before the play. 
Scliutz stated that $800 would be the 
maximum cost of the production, and 
that $1000 would be realized from 
even a femall house. If this estimate 
Is correct, the play would be more 
than self-supporting, and all that the 
club desires is an advancement of 
part of the expenses and permission 
to proceed with arrangements. Al
though the board took no action ex
cept. to ask that Schtz prepare an 
exact budget for presentation at the 
next mooting on February 14, still the 
outlook is vory favorable, and in all 
probability the Choral chib will pre
sent "Robin Hood sometime during 
the spring.
LECTURE GIVEN BY 
THOMAS MOTT OSBORNE
Last Wodnosday Tech students 
woro given the ploasuro of mooting 
with ono of the docadoa groat mon, 
Thomas M. Osborno, whose clear 
thinking and plain speaking has done 
so much In bringing about prison re
form throughout the country.
It has long boon a recognized fact 
that our prisoners, after having served 
their terms and again given freedom, 
have In many cases again turned to 
their former standards of living. Doos 
this speak well for the methods used 
In our prisons? Doos not, I.ho fact that 
In ono year, from 2,900 Institutions, 
there have boon as many as 470,000 
prlsonors returned to take their places 
in society, and that a large proportion 
of those take up their former modes 
of living, show that at present we are 
not dealing with the problem in an in
telligent way? Under present sys
tems the qualities that make up the 
man, physically and morally, lie dor
mant during his term. There is prac
tically only one thing the prisoner can 
do normally while in custody, that is, 
breathe, and often this is quite impos
sible, because of unsanitary conditions. 
These men, who have shown them
selves weak, should be strengthened 
and trained in every way to resist 
temptation, to be better able to take 
(Continued on Page Three.)
INDUSTRIES TO BE IN 
THE SWIM TONIGHT
Tonight at 7 o'clock is the time and 
the Pittsburgh Natatorium is the 
place, where the first annual swim 
of the students of the Industries 
school is to occur. The plans for this 
big annual bath" were completed at 
the assembly meeting last week, and 
from present indications a prodigious 
volume of water is scheduled to be 
displaced when the swimmers enter 
the tank.
A big bit for six bits.
WEST DORM DEFEATS TAU GAMMA PHI
The West Dorm team won its bas
ketball gamo from the Tau Gamma 
Phi fraternity to the tune of 20 to 10 
last Thursday night. Pugh starred 
for the fraternity team, while Rob
erts was the strongest player on the j 
dormitory team. Lineup:
West Dorm. Tau Gamma Phi
Riblett ................F......... Mathews
Mayer .................F............... Sundeen
Reede ................C................... Heston
Roberts ..............G................ McAleer
Gage ..................G...................... Pugh
Yelle, Cheswick sub.
Murphy, sub.
PROF. LEEDS SPEAKS TO INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
Prof. Leeds, head of the department 
of,Machine Construction, gave a most 
interesting talk to the Industries As
sembly at the regular meeting last 
week. His subject, dealt mostly with 
the opportunities offered the Indus
tries graduate in the Industrial world 
and he further elaborated by enumer
ating a number of responsible posi
tions held.at prosont by alumni of the 
Industries school.
BOYER IS DESIGN SENIORJRESIDENT
A mooting of the Senior class in 
Design school was held last Thursday 
and officers were elected. The officers 
elected are Martin E. Boyer, presi
dent; Miss Bertha Bates, vice presi
dent; "Jerry DeYoung, secretary; 
Bennett Cardwell, treasurer.
New Equipment Enables the 
Station to Hear Messages 
Sent from Two Stations in 
Germany
It may interest The Tartans readers 
to know that the experimental wire
less receiving apparatus of the Elec
trical Engineering Department is now 
completed. Some of this apparatus 
forms what Is known as the "ultratidion receiver, by means of which the 
station in Machinery Hall hoars the 
stations In Germany which communicate with the United States stations 
at Sayvllle and Tuokorton. The two 
Gorman stations are In Nauon and 
Ellvoso and furnish the only reliable 
means of communication between Ger
many and the outside worjd at pres
ent, and are consequently kept very 
busy. These two stations handle about 
ten thousand messages a month and 
may be heard any hour of the day or 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page TxuTHE TARTANJanuary 17, 1917
(frr qfartan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates o: the Carnegie 
Institute oli Technology.________________________________
Entered in the postofficc oi Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPT JON RATES  
_________5c the copy_________Can adii, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief........
Business Manager.. 
Managing Editor...
........................................Alfred M. Staehle, 17
Phone Schenley 9067
...........................................Paul W. Emmel, 17
Phone Schenley 91.67
...............................................G. II. Haynes, 19
Phone Schenley 2508
News Editor?.
.!. Russell Hoxworth, '37 
Phone Schenley 9031 
A. G. Pearce, '18, dsslstant. 
Athlctic Editor 
.1. J. Kennedy, '17 
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
J. P. Davis, '18 
P. C. Tucker, 15)
Staff Photographer 
M. A. Zeller 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Rice
Editors
M. D. Meyoi'Bon, '10 
Alex. Sharove, 18 
Sue Smith, '17 
P. II. Armor, '19 
Associato Editors 
F. C. MeConnell 
H. .1. Scobell, '18 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richtor 
Circuiation Manager 
II. R. Mumm, '17 
Pilne Schenley 9070
TARTAN OFFICE.....................................................Room 162, Design
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
'The Editor-In-Chief .X responsible for policy of this paper; the Managing 
Editor for the make-up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of Student interest, if signed, 
the signature to he withheld it desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news items must be in the student postonico, Central Building, by 
Monday noon. .
ization made an effort to collect and 
save all these songs, our supply of 
such would undoubtedly be greater 
than it is.
No one doubts the value of inspir
ing influences, the moments of pure 
joy and happiness which have come to 
us while singing that wonderful song, 
Dear Old Tech." College songs are 
really a part of the school life, and in I 
after years arouse some of the most J 
pleasant memories. Memories which j 
are dear to the hearts of the alumni.
In order to increase the supply of 
songs, we would suggest to the Glee 
Club, that they endeavor to collect all 
the songs together, possibly to make 
it a custom to add one themselves 
each year; and some time in the not 
too distant future the idea of a Tech 
Song Book would became a reality.
BASKETBALL LEAGUE IS PROGRESSING RAPIDLY
Gym Is Scene of Many In
teresting Manoeuvers
FLETCHER STARS
FOR ZETA LAMBDA
A STUDENT GOVERNMENT
In several of our issues in* the past we have suggested a student, 
government for all the four schools, but have not as yet mentioned 
any tangible scheme or method by which this could be accomplished. 
For several weeks an important organization has been working on a 
system to combine all the four schools under one governing body, in 
order that concerted action may be taken by the entire school, as 
representing the student body of t he Carnegie institute of Technology 
upon subjects of general school import.
In looking over the past history of the School we find few in
stances in which Tech as a unit has taken up matters of student inter
est,. We find that the Science School was the first to inaugurate some 
activity, then the Industries School alone may have taken a .stand on 
some subject, and even today we find the M. M. C. S. attempting to 
put through a movement represented as coming from the Tech stu
dent body, while the other schools remain almost in utter ignorance 
of the plan, its purpose, or its origin. Is it reasonable to expect that 
such a movement can succeed without the co-operation of the other 
schools? And this represents merely, one instance. How about Plebe 
regulation? Each of the three mens schools have different rules. 
There seems to be no uniformity in the student, activities at all.
hot us cite another instance in which a uniform, action was re-vfuirod of the student, body, namely, the recent Victoria affair. Each 
school had to take, separate action. Some took a decided stand. 
Others took none,. So we ask, what really was the attitude at Tech 
concerning this affair? We know the Science School took a certain 
attitude, as did the Industries, lint, these two schools do not repre
sent the entire student body. Yet their action was taken as the 
action, of Carnegie Tech. Anyone can see the inefficiency, and lack of 
system in the present student, government if it may be called, such.
What Tech needs is a central governing body, composed of repre
sentatives from each of I lie four schools, having certain Acids of activ
ity definitely defined, so that they will not interfere with either the 
Student, Activities or Athletic Association. The present form of gov
ernment in each school should stand as it is, for the separate senates 
still have their functions. Their activities and decisions, however, 
should be subordinate to the superior governing body.
Such a body will be invested with power and authority to repre
sent the voice and sentiment of all the students of Carnegie Tech. 
Its formation and proper organization will be the greatest step that 
the school could take toward that ideal which we have so often ex
pressed  A United Tech.
THE BAND
Next Friday evening, the Carnegie Tech Band will give a com
bined concert and dance at the Student Union. This is the one big 
affair of the school year for the band and promises to be an event of 
unusual interest, deserving the support of every true Techite.
We would like to mention a few facts concerning the band, Vhicli 
are unusually interesting. Five years ago, E. H. Sullivan gathered 
seven or eight men together to form a band. Today the membership 
of this organization numbers more than thirty. And represents one 
of the highest types of student bands in the country! Its growth has 
been phenomenal.
Let us turn our thoughts and memories back a few weeks and 
picture the great work our band did during the football season. We 
can still picture them marching down Forbes Field on that great day, 
November 18, when our hearts beat with pride for those fellows, who 
formed such a large factor in that outburst of Tech Spirit. And 
even now we can realize that the band has been the very life of many 
an athletic event.
' The baud receives support from the Student Activities, but not 
content with the great service Sullivan and his men are rendering the 
school, they arc giving a concert and dance in an endeavor to make 
their activity self-supporting. This seems to us an undertaking 
which deserves the termnoble. It is an unselfish effort to render 
Carnegie a still greater service. Evory true Tech student realizing 
the great spirit of these men, having only a fraction of the spirit they 
have, will do his utmost to support-such a worthy onedavor.
We wish to congratulate Sullivan and the band, and to them ex
tend our heartiest appreciation 1
A TECH SONG BOOK
Sometime ago someone suggested to us the idea of a Tech Song 
Book. We immediately took the matter up and investigated its pos
sibilities. We find, as most of us already know, Carnegie, due to its 
youth, has few songs. From time to time spasmodic efforts have been 
made to write a new song for the school. Some of these have been 
fair, some otherwise. But, nevertheless, had someone, or some organThe inter-organization basket ball 
league is now the cause of some very 
exciting and interesting strife. Some 
very good material rises to the sur
face during these struggles and one 
wonders why it is not placed at the 
disposal of the Plaid coach. Perhaps 
Fletcher, after his debut as a Zeta 
Lambda star last week will have more 
confidence in himself and try for 
'varsity honors.
On Tuesday evening Tau Gamma 
Phi suffered defeat before the Theta 
Xi aggregation to a 10 to 15 tune. 
Woodlawn Club also trammeled on 
Phi Epsilon Pi, 27-5, but on Friday 
evening were nosed out of a game, 
19-18, by the Zeta Lambda fraternity. 
The same evening the Dormitory 
whipped Tau Gamma Phi. 20-12.
Much interest is shown in all these 
games and as the contest progresses 
it becomes more difficult to predict 
just what team will carry away the 
honors for the league.
TECH BANQUET HELD 
AT BUFFALO, N. Y.
To the Editor of The Tartan:
On the 29th of December, 191G, the 
Buffalo Branch of the New York 
State Club of Carnegie Tech held 
their second annual banquet at the 
Hotel Statler. There were fifteen 
Tech men present besides the speak
er of the evening, Mr. G.. E. Dorland, Yale, '94.
Shortly after 10 oclock Toastmas
ter Morley introduced Mr. Dorland, 
who gave a very interesting talk on 
the value of a college education and 
made a plea for lives that should be 
broad in every sense of the word. 
Mr. Curtis, Mech. '17, then introduced 
the idea of a Buffalo Clan of Car
negie Tech. From the speeches made 
during the rest of the evening, the 
idea of a Buffalo Clan struck the 
right keynote. Mr. Koethen, '08, then 
gave us some interesting reminis
cences of the early days. He re
membered when the M. M. C. S. as 
well as the science school were lo
cated in the Industries building, and 
all they had to do to get doughnuts 
was to climb over a wall in one of 
the halls. He also remembers of 
one awful stomach ache which fol
lowed such ,an escapade. Mr. Fred
ericks, '09 Elec., backed Mr. Koethen 
up in reference to the burying of an 
anchor just previous to a tug-of war. 
The anchor didnt pull out but the 
rope stretched enough so that the 
guilty side lost. The next speaker, 
Mr. B. H. Work, reminded us of the 
time the Pitt sign read Tech. After 
this the underclassmen one after an
other gave us short talks on school 
life, football, etc.
In this connection I want to thank 
the 'members of my committee, 
Messrs. Stimin and Hinckley, for 
their assist a'nee in making the ban
quet a success. Mr. Curtis also ren
dered valuable assistance for which 
I thank him. Mr. Rozan, a former 
Tech student, printed our programs.
A. L. MORLEY, Elec. 17, 
Chairman.
JUNIATA WHIPS,TECH ON
HOME FLOOR 27-22
(Continued from Page One)
Oiler and Manbeck. Horner, Juniatas 
captain, was. also at a loss when it 
came to rolling up points as was 
Newcomer, one of the forwards.
Looking forward to this weeks
conflict with Allegheny College the 
plaid rooters are hoping that their 
tossers will got together as they did 
ill the Westinghouse game and show 
what they really have. Allegheny 
has a reputation for winning games 
which has boon found in previous 
yoars very dillloult to put asunder.
Saturdays game in detail: 
Juniata27. Carnegie Tech22.
Ollor ...................F.............. Greene
Newcomer ...........l<\ .. Abrams-Slater
Cary-FoxenBakor ...................G.............. Gretzler
Manbeck ..............G.................. Finlay
Monier (Cap!..) ..G.................... Levy
Goals - Oiler 'I, Baker 3, Manbeck 
3, Greene 2, Abrams 5, Finlay 1, 
Levy" 2, Gretzler 1. FoulsAbrams, 
4 out of 8; Oiler, 2 out* of 4, Man
beck, 5 out. of 7.
In point oil scoring the Tech squad 
ranks as follows so far this season:
Greene ..........................It!
Abrams ............-..........16
Finlay ......................... S
Levy ............................. S
Gretzler ......................... 2
A big bit for six bits.
HORNBOSTEL TO BUILD 
ART SCHOOL IN SOUTH
For the 
College 
Boys
pB ASK ETL [ Bc( LSTaupAN
hencn l[SB yHiBgVBASKK gTL 
Ahone 9634 Grant
A Good 
Place 
to Eat
THE NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
BETWEEN FIFTH AND FORBES ON ATWOOD 
Special 35 cent Lunch11:30-2:30 
The Home of Home Cooking" j|]
Here Youll Find the Com
bination That Pleases 
Cuisine, Service and Tempt
ing Dishes
THE BLOSSOM 
RESTAURANT
(The Original)
3719 FORBES STREET
LETTER RECEIVED FROM
PITT STUDENT SENATECHURCHES
HOME CONCERT WILL
BE HELD MARCH 9
(Continued From Page One.) 
beside the dull monotony of the schol
astic grind.
The name of this organzation shall
be The.......................
At this point the document is torn 
away, but after much eifort the re
mainder was found'and it was discov
ered that the organization referred to 
was the Carnegie Musical Club, and 
the event the Annual Home Concert of 
that organization.
The institution still grows and im
proves, even in tlieso modern times, 
and in keeping with the old document, 
the Twelfth Annual Home Concert 
and Dance will bo hold at Carnegie 
Music Hall, on Friday, March 9, 1917. 
Better make a noto of it now. Got in 
lino for an evening of good music. See 
that Socond Part. Entirely newdif
ferent from anything presented be
fore.
And dont forgot to fix it up with 
her for the dance. All Tech men 
are eligible. Here is your chance to 
pay up for some of those meals with 
the family and get a permanent stand 
In with the lady at the same time. 
The only All Schools dance and the 
social event of the season.
Tickets-will be on sale by section 
representatives within a week.
(Pittsburgh Sun, Dec. 9.)
Henry Hornbostel, architect of the 
buildings of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, and patron of the insti
tute's school of . applied design,, has 
just been commissioned to design a 
$60,000 art school for the. University 
of Atlanta, Ga., where he has been 
the architect for the university group 
proper.
Rustic cottages of the Petit Tri
anon at Versailles, France, where 
Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette and 
their court played at pastoral life, 
will be the dominant influence in 
the proposed school, according to Mr. 
I-lornbostel. The idea which - he 
plans to work out, he asserts, will be 
radically different from that which is 
the. basis of the design school at 
Carnegie Tech.
Instead of having a central build
ing in which all the departments of 
the art school will operate, as in the 
school of applied design, Mr. Horn
bostel said, the school which I am 
planning for Atlanta will consist of 
a group of buildings. It will ulti
mately work out into a little artistic 
community.
Every instructor will be given his 
own cottage and his studio in this 
group. For every group of 30 - stu
dents in any branch of the arts a 
workshop will be erected, and when 
there are more than that number of 
students in a given art another work
shop will be erected and another in
structor put in charge.
The rustic cottages of the Petit 
i Trianon suggested the idea. The cot! tages will be built of the pink 
| marble which is obtainable in large 
1 quantities in Georgia.
The purpose behind this plan is 
to make rather a school of masters 
than a factory for making educat
ion in the arts.
The University of Atlanta, Mr. 
Hornbostel said, has 120 acres of 
ground, which has been laid out in 
beautiful parks in the English style. 
Five buildings designed by him, all 
of marble, have been erected, in
cluding the law, theology and chem
istry buildings, and two dormitories, 
all in marble.
The remarkable part about the 
building of the University of Atlan
ta, Mr. Hornbostel said, is that the 
institution was willing to expend $40,- 
000 for the construction of a monu
mental colonnade, a thing valuable 
solely for its beauty and without 
practical use. This appreciation of 
the beautiful is rarely found in so 
concrete form anywhere in this coun
try.
Meanwhile Mr. Hornbostel will 
continue his work on the completion 
of the Carnegie Tech group. Ap
proximately 70 per cent of the entire 
group, he said, has been constructed
(Continued From Page One.) 
ed therewith, has in any way been in
terested in or associated with the af
fair.
The whole matter is extremely un
fortunate and is to be regretted as 
the action of a few individuals who 
either thoughtlessly or deliberately 
risked  lowering the names of their 
schools for the sake of personal gain. 
It was the general impression among 
the students, at Pitt that the show 
was being written and produced by 
Tech students, while your editorial 
shows that the Tech student body be
lieved Pitt to be. behind it.
There is not the slightest founda
tion in fact for the rumor that the af
fair was being arranged in return for 
the Pitt-Tech smoker. The Senate is 
now working on plans for a smoker 
similar to that given by you last year, 
in order to continue the precedent 
which you so well established. When 
the plans are definitely completed I 
shall communicate with you to re
ceive the proper publicity and co-oper
ation.
Please see that this letter is given 
space in the next issue of The Tar
tan, in order that there may be no 
ground for misunderstanding as to our 
position in this matter.
Cordially yours,
J. R. WILLI SON, 
Pres. Student Senate.
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. R. 
Hamiltons Class. All young wometv 
to H. C. Young's Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park carsi to Alder stret.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.)
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
8hady and Northumberland Avenue*.
Graded Sunday School 9:45 A. M 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A.M. an* 
8:00 P. M.
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M_ 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages, 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D., 
Pastor
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street*. 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector.
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. an* 
7:45 P. M. Splendid music, short 
sermons. 
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
EXHIBITION OF THUMB BOX 
SKETCHES AND SMALL PAINTINGS
There is an exhibition of Thumb 
Box sketches and small paintings in 
the exhibition room of Design school 
which is attracting an unusual amount 
of attention. These sketches and 
paintings are the work of the night 
students in the Department of Paint
ing and Decorating. The work is 
most excellent and the interesting 
part is that, the work was done by 
persons employed during the day in 
work along very different lines. One 
piece was executed - by a street car 
conductor and others by clerks in 
various stores throughout the city. 
Tlie school can well be proud of such 
students.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00,, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
Holy Days.
Vesperson Sundays at 7:30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
EXTENSION BUREAU
in the last 11 years.
A big bit for six bits.
The following is a list of lectures 
which will be given by the Exten
sion Bureau. These lectures are in 
addition to the list published in The 
Tartan three weeks ago.
Importance of Mineral Resources 
in History, by Prof. Joseph Jensen.
Military Engineering in War and 
Peace, Engineering Facts for Ev
ery-Day People, by Prof. H. R. 
Thayer.
Two Thousand Years of Machin
ery, by Prof. Willibald Trinks.
Galileo Galileo. His Contribution 
to Science, by Prof. H. S. Hower.
The Conquest of Air, Science of 
Every-Day Personal Efficiency, by 
Prof. G. H. Follows. 
Radio Telegraphy, by Dr. A. F. 
V anDyck.
The Romance of the Printed 
Book, by Harry L. Gage.
The Story of a Sheet of Paper, 
by A. V. Ingham.
Square Deal in Education, by 
Dean C. B. Connelley.
What Shall I Do With My Boy? 
by Prof. J. T. Morris.
Opportunities for Trained Women 
in Institutional Administration, by 
Clara H. Shaw.
Educated Women Who Work, by 
Marion Holmes.
Nature Method in Education, by 
John A. David.
Fairy Lands of Astronomy, by 
Prof. S. S. Keller.
Radium (with experiments), 
Crystals and Light, by Prof. L. O. 
Grondahl.
Microbe as a Social Factor, 
Science vs. Custom, Autocrat of
Shadyside Presbyterian |
Church - |
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. |
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR |
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M.
AT 9:45 OCLOCK 
Young Mens Bible Class 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Men's Bible Class 
Prof. William R. Farmer g
Western Theological Seminary j|
Margaret Morrison Class J
Mr3. Frederick B. Shipp j|
Women's Bible Class 
Mr. George M. Kirk ^
Breakfast
Sunday, 8:15-9:30.
The best one since you left home, 
at the Oakland M. E. Church, near 
Forbes Field, 10c. Come early an<ft 
: meet a live bunch of. fellows. After 
: the eating contest, at 9:45, the Brothj erhood Class listens to A Mans Re^
| Iigion Taught in a Manly Way.
11 Ij East Liberty |
1 Y. M. C. A. |
@ a| 122 WHITFIELD STREET Ej
| j|j Come in and see what we have 
. p to offer. t|j
Grace Reformed Church
(The ChurchBeautiful) 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS.
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor
ship at 11, Evening Services at 7:45, 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services.
1 Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.
| the Breakfast Table, by Prof. Ed; mond Esquerre.
Early History of Iron Making in 
America, Founders of the Iron ln1 dustry, How Gold Is Mined, 
i Story of the Comstock Mine, A 
I Great. Copper Mine/ A Great In
ventorSir Henry Bessemer, Min| ing in the Middle Ages, by Prof. 
 Fred Crabtree.
14988333

---------------------------------------------------

January 17, 1917THE TARTANPuge Three
The Young Man's Great Opportunity
for success today is salesmanship. Life In
surance selling offers unlimited opportunities 
for success. Policies from $1,000 to $100,000. 
Write us about an agency.
FRANK C. PIERSON, Manager
Western Penna. Ordinary Dept.
Tenth Floor Diamond Bank BuildingPITTSBURGH, PA.
' Zoel J. Parenteau V. D. Nirella A. David Broudy
Efficiency with Elegance
The Nirella Orchestras
410 SIXTH AVENUE :::::: PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone Grant 360 
Service which is a Distinctive Asset to Host and Hostess.
5iaM3MS3MaaMaMaMaiaMeMSjeMMaMaMS/aMe!M3ja!
NREW G. WIRTH
BOOKBINDING
BINDING OF MAGAZINES AND RE
BINDING OF OLD BOOKS 
A SPECIALTY 
*109-111 FEDERAL STREET, N. S.
MODERN DANCES 
Classes and Private
R. E. JAQUES
FORBES and CRAIG STREETS 
PITTSBURGH
Many ^ 
Styles 
of Type 
and Many 
Languages
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change your type in an instant from one 
style to anotheror any language.
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine.
Jut Turn the Knob Presto one or the oilier 
SimpleCompact---Portable 
Beautiful work-beyond compare.
If not inclinedto a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
PatronsPresident Woodrow Wilson 
Cardinal V .ry del Val 
Dr. Alexajcr Graham Bell 
Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant 
Bishop John G. Murray 
William Dean Howells 
also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 Eust fi9th Street New York Ciiy. N. Y.__________
1 ENTERPRISE CLEANING CO.
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work In Ladles', Children'* 
v and Household Work. 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies e 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland 
Works 4912 Hiland.
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
409-413 Fifth Avenue 
B10-514 Smlthfield Street 
406-410 Oliver Avenue
FIRST ELIZABETHAN 
PRODUCTION IN U. S.
(New York Times, Dec. 31.)
William Poel, founder and director 
of the Elizabethan Stage Society of 
London, England, gave an Elizabeth
an production of Ben Jonsons satir
ical comedy, "Poetaster, in the the
ater of the School of Applied Design 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, a few weeks ago, and fol
lowed it up early this month with one 
in Detroit. This is the first time a 
purely Elizabethan production of any 
kind has been made in the United 
States, and it is  the second time 
Poetaster has been seen on the 
boards since the death of. Jonson, Hr. 
Poel having first produced it in the 
Jacobean hall of the Apothecaries' 
Society, on April 26 last.
Mr. Poel is asserted to be the great
est. living authority on the Elizabethan 
stage, having, in 1881, made ajjroAuc
tion of "Hamlet with two hours con
tinuous action, staged on a fore-plat
form, without scenery and with Eliza
bethan costumes. Out of this revival, 
which was the first of its kind since 
the seventeenth century, grew the 
Elizabethan Stage Society, starting in 
1893 with Mr. Poel as founder and 
director.
He came to this country last spring 
to give the students of the depart
ment of drama at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology readings from Calder
ons Lifes a Dream, and at that 
time was urged to produce an Eliza
bethan play. After Mr. Poel's pro
duction of Poetaster he went to Chi
cago and Detroit, where he helped ob
tain recruits for the British army. 
Returning by way of Pittsburgh to 
Philadelphia, he will sail tor England 
on the Baltic in December, never to 
return, it has been announced, as a 
producer.
The proscenium arch, according to 
Mr. Poel, as first built in the Drury 
Lane theater near the middle of the 
nineteenth century, did irrevocable 
damage to the Elizabethan theater.
When you have a frame such as 
that formed by the proscenium arch, 
said Mr. Poel in the costume room at 
i Tech theater, between rehearsals,
I you must have a picture to put be 
hind it. And realism is not possible 
! on the pictorial stage where, instead 
' of the scenery serving as background 
j to the actors, the actors are baclc| ground to the scenery, 
j tn the Elizabethan stage, on the 
; other hand, the actors played on a 
1 platform, surrounded on three sides 
by the pit, it in turn by galleries. At 
the -back were two doors, for it was
not until commentators, publishing 
Elizabethan plays in book form, decided to divide them into the classic | 
five acts that the action of the Eliza
bethan play was not continuous.
Originally, one set of actors disap
peared at one door, as another set 
appeared through the other. The back 
of the stage was simply liung with 
curtains, behind which the orchestra 
was placed, not forward, as in the 
modern theater, and the lighting was 
done by candles or torches, not by 
footlights.
In Mr. Poel's American production 
of Poetaster he followed the Eliza
bethan rule almost to the letter. In 
this case the proscenium arch was 
covered by black velvet draperies 
that hung in straight folds to a fore
stage, likewise covered. At the back 
was a. rough scaffolding supporting 
a balustrade, that served as an open
ing in a hedge, a doorway or support, 
to a balcony as occasion required. The 
seats, other than two three-legged En
glish stools and a gray English chair, 
were also covered with black velvet.
Approach to the stage was by steps 
from either side, or through the one 
door at the back. And indirect light
ing was produced by placing a hang
ing lamp behind black velvet draper
ies. The New York productions ap
proximating it were The Magical 
City o the Washington Square Play
ers, in ''lighting effect, and Granville 
Barkers production of The Man 
Who Married a Dumb Wife on an 
apron stage. '
The next greatest loss of the mod
ern theater, said Mr. Poel, is in the 
matter of voice. The reason Ameri
cans cannot read Shakespeare is be
cause you cannot tongue him.
This is a point upon which Mr. Poel 
is so sure, that he will put girls in 
boys parts, destroying the validity of 
the figure, in order to obtain proper 
co-ordination of the voices in the 
play. To that part of the audience 
with slow ears, used to 'he equal em
phasis of words, the speecnes m many 
cases seemed -incoherent and at times 
unintelligible. But to those whose 
ears were alert to this subtle distinc
tion, the laughs in Poetaster fell 
hammerlike on certo.ii notes, the 
parts Mr. Poel wishing emphasized 
being stressed, the rest running trip
pingly from the tongue.
Also, if a play is staged true to the 
Elizabethan manner, continued Mr. 
Poel, it is impossible not to dis
tinguish the maids from the ladies, 
or the students from the gentlemen.
In his production of ''Poetaster," 
the ladies and lords were tall after
Rossetti, while the pages and the
tradesmans wife, were small and the 
maids and the Morris dancers were 
stocky. This rule was broken only 
once, in the case of. Augustus Caesar, 
where the figure was sacrificed to the 
Aroice, as already mentioned.
Lent by the Elizabethan Stage So
ciety, thecostumes of Poetaster 
are not only authentic seventeenth 
century costumes, but they, are pe
culiarly beautiful in color and design, 
besides being full of meaning in their 
subtle class  distinctions. Although 
the characters and events are sup
posed to belong lo the time of the Em
peror Augustus in Rome, it must be 
remembered that the comedy gives 
an excellent idea of contemporary 
London, the costumes being an Eliza
bethans idea of classic attire.
Poetaster was first acted, private
ly. at the Blackfriars theater in Lon
don in the summer or autumn of 1601.
JUNIOR PROM DATE CHANGED 
TO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD
(Continued From Page One.l 
rendered by this well-known concern 
makes certain the success of this por
tion of the program.
The architectural beauty of the 
Music Hall Foyer, where the Prom 
will be held, will be enhanced in color 
and beauty by palms and greens which 
will be effectively placed as decora
tions.
Tentative programs of thirty dances 
are being arranged. The Prom will 
continue from 9:30 p. m. to 5:00 
oclock the following morning. The 
favors will be distributed with the pro
grams. The committee expects to 
spring a surprise when the favors are 
seen, since they are being very se
cretive about them.
The committee is experiencing great 
difficulty in holding expenses down for 
this years Prom, for food, service, etc., 
has gone up in price. Nevertheless, 
the committee is sparing no pains or 
expense to make this year's Prom the 
best one ever held at> Tech.
Invitations will be sent out now very 
shortly, the lists having been com
pleted.
TECH RADIO STATION HEARS 
MESSAGES FROM GERMANY
(Continued From Pago Que.) 
night. The messages are mainly of 
a business character, interspersed 
with news items, from which the world 
learns Germanys side of the story.
Such long distance reception has 
beeii made possible only within the 
last two years by the development of 
wonderfully sensitive receiving do* 
vices. The stations in Honolulu and 
Japan have not yet been picked up, 
but it is hoped that these also will be 
heard before the winter is over.
A big bit for six bits.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS AND 
PROFITS, $9,500,00
TOTAL RESOURCES OVER G 
$95,000,000
Now that another school year has 
begun, why not make It r point to 
care for your personal appeurance and 
have your suits pressed regularly^ 
We will call for your suit, press ant 
return It, all on the same day. Pho.nt 
us and arrange the details. Schenlej 
875.
J E. T. Shuman
3911 FORBES STREET
iSJSMSISMS/SMSMSMSMPISMSMSMSMSJS
Pierpont. Siviter S Co..
ENGRAVING PRINTING
LITHOGRAPHING EMBOSSING 
Engraved Calling Cards 
Wedding Invitations 
Announcements
Dance Programs 
Phone 358 Hiland.
119 SHADY AVENUE
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENT
IN1N6C
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
A big bit for six bits.
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
A big bit for six bits.
BOWLING LEAGUE FORMED!!BY FACULTY
At a recent meeting of representa
tives from the four schools, plans 
were discussed for the 1916-17 season 
of the Faculty Bowling League, and a 
schedule aclopted. Five teams will 
compete: Administration, Applied De
sign, Applied Industries, Applied Sci
ence, and a team composed of mem
bers of the Psychology and Health De
partments, and any male member of 
the M. M. C. S. faculty. Two alleys 
at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
have been reserved on Tuesday and 
Thursday afternoons at 4:00 oclock 
for the matches. The first tournament 
will be' duck pins and the second ten 
pins. The team  having the largest 
percentage of games (not matches) 
won will be declared the winner. The 
men having the ten highest averages 
in each tournament will select cap
tains and bowl a final match. The 
first, match will he held Tuesday, Jan
uary 16, at 4:00 oclock, Applied In
dustries vs. Applied Science. The sec
ond match will be bowled Thursday, 
January 18, at 4:00 oclock, Adminis
tration vs. Applied Design. A sched
ule of the entire tournament is being 
printed and will be sent out to every 
member of the faculty. Mr. Milligan 
is in charge of the arrangements at 
the Club.
Miss Ruth St. Denis will give a lec
ture on "Interpretative Dancing at 
the General Assembly of the Design 
Students in the Theater, on Wednes
day morning, January 17.
LECTURE GIVEN BY
THOMAS MOTT OSBORNE
. (Continued from Pago One) 
the ill', places in society. Tills can only 
be tione by application of modern edu
cational practices and the full recog
nition of the principle, It is liberty 
alone that fits men for liberty, which 
was first voiced by that immortal 
statesman, Gladstone.
For nine years Mr. Osborno awaited 
the chance to verify his theories. His 
chance came when he was given the 
war'denship of Sing Sing. In order to 
fully understand his problem, Mr. Os
borne voluntarily served a term of ono 
week among the prisoners. It was 
here that he gained knowlodge of 
actual conditions at first hand. Here 
he was able to see Llio prisoners point 
of view. Thereupon ho set about 
working out a scheme of procedure 
and started Lo apply It in filling his 
position. The rosults thus far have 
been surprisingly excellent. Sing Sing 
is no longer a dungeon, making out of 
poor characters, worse than useless 
beings, but is now an Institution for 
strengthening the weaker memhors of 
society.
Unfortunately, Mr. Osborne is a vic
tim of our political system, and is no 
longer In a position Lo carry on his 
good work, and so In place of direct 
inlluence, he is endeavorlng to educate 
the public to the newer methods by 
lecturing throughout the counLry, in 
the hope that the people will use their 
influence in bringing about better con
ditions.
Recognition of Llie worth of Mr. Os
bornes theories is shown in the fact 
tliaL his successor at Sing Sing is at 
present carrying on the work on much 
the same basis inaugurated by him, 
which resulted in the formation of the 
prisoners "Mutual Welfare League, 
and the breaking down of the wall 
that so ruthlessly separates the man 
in prison and those outside.
Who is not a better citizen after 
having heard Mr. Osbornes experi
ences?
RALPH ADAMS CRAM TO SPEAR AT TECH
Mr. Ralph Adams Cram, one of the 
greatest architects of our time, will be 
entertained by Dean Bossange and the 
faculty of Design School on Saturday 
morning, at an informal breakfast at 
the P. A. A.
Mr. Cram* will probably address Lhe 
sLudents informally. His stay will he 
brief.
Mr. Cram is the designer of the 
First Baptist and Calvary Churches In 
Pittsburgh, as well as other churches 
of singular beauty all over the country. 
Mr. Cram, is has been said, has done 
more to re-develop Gothic architecture 
in his own time than was accomplish
ed in all the years between the decline 
of Gothic archlteclure and Ills own 
day. He has demonstrated iLs adapt
ability to such a degree that a verita
ble revival of a Gothic architecture 
suited to modern uses has resulted.
A big bit for six bits.
Carnegie Institute of Technology
THE Carnogie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses in science in preparation for teaching or 
for research.School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men. and .women, leading lo Lhe degree of Bachelor 
of Arts.School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construcLion, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training indus
trial teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in 
Industrial Education. Short courses of eight, months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, olectrlc. 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying for more maLure applicants who have had some experience in Lhose trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Olfers a 
regular day course of general training, with particular emphasis 
on home-making, foliowod by specialized training in household 
economics, secretarial economics, costume economics, home arts 
and crafts, general science, or social work, leading Lo Lhe degree 
of Bachelor of Science. Also courses for the training of teachers 
in the above subjects.Night Courses 'Plie four schools offer night courses in prac
tically all of tho above subjects Lo provide pducaLional opportuniLies for I.li6se who are at. work during the day.
FeesThe total fees for a day course are $48.00 a year for 
rosldonLs of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. Tho Lotal 
fees for night courses are $16.00 for residents and $18.00 for non*
residents.------------------------------For further information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
16ledracks.Till1 IIOUtlE OP atlHVICU
ALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the Victrola to Play Them on
at any time
W. F. FREDE
635-37 Smithfield St., PITTSBURGH
mtxa
i^S/S/c?/S/c/0JI3/iD/S/3/^/tn/S/cn/y3/(9/i3/Iin?/n?/i?J2/SJ 
GET YOUR HAIR CUT a 
i ---------at the---------
|.j THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE
TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
g FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
13/3M(3/S/S/2MS/3JSMn3I'\JM5M3/2M3/SMi5M3]
SHOP IN OAKLAND 
18 at
117 OAKLAND AVE.
WEAR-WELL SHOE 
REPAIRING SHOP
I3'i
.-i
i13

---------------------------------------------------

I FIFTEEN
CENTS
Gm/m&'im/cuL
wkawAf 25(m
-r., THETURKISH
CIGARETTE,
Makers of the Highest Grade Turkish 
and Egyptian Cigarettes in tlm World*hia/um
A Corporation
Page FourTHE TARTANJanuary 17, 1917
I send these
most deliciousII'1 I1 !' g 
\?I'1 I ii'I-1 II-1 I'11
Sweettooth 
Tempters to 
your Friend or 
the Folks at 
home?
[SMcMJc
||j THEY EXPECT IT |
|] AT CHRISTMAS |
|j TODAY IT'S A HIT |
.AREGLSTLSGLSSSLULULSTEGLFLFHFLULULY,
( ffrq
JomJit COLLARS
arc cum cut to fit theslwMrs pciftctly. if cents cach.bryy
CLUETT. PEABODY CtCO; INCflM<;r.<
]SJSiSJi2Jini3/3iii2/QlfiIIfD!JS/Sn5ii3/Q!JQlini/S/S/3ii3iGii 
FOR EATS COME TO US
I We want to furnish the Baked 
Qooda for your Frat. May wo? 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
In the Center of tho 
I IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND 
/RUi5/i?/i9/(5/i9nDii3/injniiMii?/0/tnJi?/eIicIJe,,3/i3iSi3/cIiSi
SMOlMijifi
Forbes Quality 
Shop
FORBES and BOUQUET 8T8. 
LUNCH AND SODA
jsfo!/sji3/ifnu/si^ isinyiiyip/iiiiui/nj/iiijinisyiy
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Boll Phono 239 Sohonloy. 
Moving, Packing nnd Storing 
of Furnlturo and Pianos. Geni 
oral Hauling Baggage to and li 
from Dopota.
4010-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
LECTURE ON "THE 
HIGHLANDS OF ONTARIOINDUSTRIESSNIGHT 
, ELECTRICALS SMOKER
An Illustrated Lecturejto Be 
Given By Prof. Follows
On Thursday night, January 18, at 
8:00 oclock, the Fulcrum Club will 
hold their regular monthly meeting 
In the Fulcrum Club Room, Science 
Building.
Prof. George II. Fellows has very 
kindly consented to apeak to the club 
members at this time and has chosen 
as his subject, "The Highlands of On
tario. He has spent, 011 and oil, about 
twenty-one years I11 tills part of Can
ada, and In that time has made a col
lection of very Interesting lantern 
lldes, which he will show at tills time 
I11 connection with Ills talk.
This Is a splendid opportunity for 
those who are fortunate enough to 
hear Prof. Fellows, to learn something 
of the life and habits of the people in 
this section of Canada. The lecture 
will be entirely descriptive and at the 
same time highly interesting.
All students of the Commercial De
partment, whether members of the 
Fulcrum Club, or not, are invited to 
attend this meeting. Smokes and re
freshments will be served. A large 
turnout is expected.
CALL I SU S SU EITFO R TA LLWRESTLING CANDIDATES
Tech to Have Coach and 
Schedule of Meets If Men 
Show Interest
Every Tech man who is at all in
terested in wrestling is .most urgently 
requested to report to the office at 
the gym on Thursday, January 18th. 
The purpose is to find out if there are 
enough men in school sufficiently in
terested in the game to make it prac
tical as a school sport. Also the ex
perience of tho men Is a thing which 
must he found out.
If enthusiasm enough is shown in 
the movement a coach will be en
gaged and a schedule of meets worked 
out which will give the men of wrest
ling ability a chance to make a name 
for themselves in that line.
A big bit for six bits.
 * 4* *fr 4* * * 4* 4* ? >& *2* ? 4* rb
 * *
j 4* The Managing Editor wishes 4* 
4* to state that the story of the 4* 
14* Industries Night Smoker was 4* 
; 4 inadvertently carried over from 4* 
4* the issue in which it was due. 4* 
4* He assures the Night Men that 4* 
4* this oversight will not be re4* 
4* peated. 4*
4* 4*
4 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4 4* 4* 4* 4 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 
The fall smoker or the Industries 
'Night Electricals was held on the 
evening of December 22 in the Union 
with an attendance of 65 men. When 
the men had assembled in the Union, 
fancy paper caps, smokes, and other 
incidentals were distributed as nec
essary preliminaries to the evenings 
enjoyment.
Every man was-labeled with a large 
white disk bearing his name, for the 
purpose of rendering an introduction 
unnecessary and of permeating the 
atmosphere with the get-together 
spirit. The newcomers, A classmen, 
were given a cordial welcome by the 
older men of classes B, C and D.
Mr. Chop era of India, a student of. 
Tech, gave a graphic description of 
the manners and customs of his coun
try. Dean Connelly spoke in his usual 
very interesting manner, and was fol
lowed by Mr. Tarbell.
Adjournment to the beanery fol
lowed these remarks, where an invit
ing lunch was served.
Chairman Stroup of the committee 
called upon several of the classmen 
for remarks, during which D. W. 
Jones got a bath of coffee and C. D. 
Ward related several lively stories. 
Ascension to the Union, took place 
after feeding, and here Beasley enter
tained in a Charlie Chaplin make-up, 
assisted by D. C. Smith. Roy Fink 
performed several quite clever acro
batic feats on the mattress, and when 
this had been finished Mr. Dodds took 
a flashlight picture and Mr. Calderwood made entertaining remarks.
At midnight the evening's affair 
broke up and left each man feeling 
proud of his connection with . this 
live wire bunch.
The following men engineered the 
affair to its successful conclusion: 
J. P. Peetz, R. L. Gretzler, J. C. 
Ober, H. C. Smith, E. J. Stroup, R. J. 
Drummond, 11. L. Fox, S. A. Coburn.
M. M. C. S. GIRLS 
FROM FACULTY
The Teachers No Match for 
Students Use of Schenley 
High Pool for Girls
f^J.CBRAGDON
10
is^/s/sis/iniiniiiijDiiQi/iiUuiiQii^iy/cUiniuiicysjDi/ciis/iiirDi/Gi/ 
m  H|@ Ho

I'- ('
 / COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER 
I? f VVOODCUTS.ZINCETCHING,HALF-TONE \
P6BeCcPe FhlllayCNN AVll Pn'TSIiVRpfo. P/I. jH
.rsLOLF.rGLULG.GLAOL3J3M3M3M3J3M3M 
!M3MSM3M2MSJ313MSJ3J]iJ
Cameraphone
THEATER 
BC8T PHOTOPLAYS 
All The Time
i-'jiin iv.i
The students wore tho winners in a 
basketball game played against the 
faculty In tho M. M. C. S. gym last 
Thursday noon, with a score of l'1-O.
Another line of, sports Into which 
the athletic association lias brnnchod 
this your Is swimming. Every Mon
day from <1:30 to 5:30 p. 111. the pool 
at the Schenley High school Is at the 
disposal of the M. M. C. S. Athletic 
Association. Many of the girls are 
.taking advantage of this opportunity 
to learn to swim, under the able in
struction of Miss Caverley and Miss 
Browning.
LOSES MKEES ROCKS 
MEET TOCARNEGIETECH
Decision Concerning Award 
of Meet to P. A. A. Re
versed in Favor of Tech
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown 
Footprints Lead to Detection
604-506 Federal Street, 
North Side
fv rTsuTKPb
i HARDWARE CO. |
Hardware and 
 House-Furnishing Goods
f 3606 FORBES ST. f J P ttsbureh, P;
The standing of a man is a3 often 
as not told by his footwearif he la 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you 
may be certain of looking all rightj 
feeling all right and impressing oth* 
or a with the fact that you aro all 
rijjht. Our Shoes are built by som 
of the most representative Shoe Man 
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
'a.
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTION |
XIJI
A

Browning, King <5* Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS 
FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
j W. O. JBreckon
I STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS. S!
Phones 1503161 Schenley  ' 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH ' 
STUDENTS 
Oakland Savings & Trust Co. |
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
THE OAKLAND BANK
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200.000.00 .j. 
$200,000.00 * .
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
| C. c7l4. S-auft i1 3702 FORBES STREET
1] PITTSBURGH, PA.a
I STATIONER AND
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 Schenley.(f rqattan Tthhhid
GEORGE BROTHERS, Proprietors 
FIRST CLASS SERVICE HIGH GRADE COFFEE g
Were Here To Please.
114-116 OAKLAND AVENUE j[5J
f5jgMgMgMgJgMgMgM5MgM5M5M5MgM5jgMgM5MMgMBMgM5MgMgjgMg.fgM.ig/gM 
Phone 1254 Grant
#mi li'rdctl da.,
406 PITTSBURGH LIFE BUILDING
FOR RENTAL
FULL DRESS AND ALL MEN'S FORMAL WEAR, FOR 
DAY OR EVENING
No Extravagant Statements, But Good Service.
EAST L BERTY
iI5J5MgJ5J5i5J5J3iSJgJ5JpJISMS1i5J5I5J5Jr5MD]J5ifa 
FLOWERS for all OCCASIONS 1
RANDOLPH & MOMENTS j
FLORAL EXPERTS 
6936 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avenue
isfgi5igi0fi?.igrgigigM5Jgigjsi3fMS
EMgjgjgjgMgjgjgfgjgjgjgigigjgigMgjgjgigigjgigj
Liberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Bell Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
.gjgjgigjgjgjsjgjgigigigjgjsMgjgigjgfgjgMSMgjg]
MUSIC STUDENTS WILL 
GIVE CONCERT'SERIES
A very interesting series of con
certs is to take place in the Design 
school, starting with one on Friday, 
January 19, at 4:30 p. m. These will 
be held in the school theater and will 
continue throughout the winter. The 
concerts will be held as follows: 
Friday, January 19, at 4:30; Sunday, 
February 11, at S p. m.; March 2, at 
4:30; March 25, at S p. m.; April 15, 
at 4:30; May 6, at S p. m.; -May 25, 
at 4:30 p_ m.
The faculty and students are in
vited. No tickets required.
TECH MIDDLE
ATLANTIC CHAMPS
The Carnegie Tech Cross County 
team was most agreeably surprised 
this week when they learned that 
they were really the winners I11 the 
Middle Atlantic Junior Cross Country 
meet hold at McKees Rocks on No
vember 25th. Caugliey of P. .A. A. 
placed first in tho meet but on a 
count at tho time Tech and P. A. A. 
were tied. The judge after consult
ing the rule book governing such 
meets awarded the cup to P. A. A. 
and the medals to Carnegie Tecli.
A recent study of the judges de
cision reveals the fact that Wiegel, 
running unattached, had placed fifth * 
and was counted in summing up the 
total scores. This is contrary to 
amateur athletic rules. With Wiegel 
removed another Tech man would 
have placed making the score 30 to 
2S in favor of Tech instead of 32-32 
as was first given out.
The winning of the Middle Atlantic 
Junior Amateur Cross Country cham
pionship has been the ideal of every 
team for several years back and so 
to this years team goes the credit
friends of the Oplieleum Fraternity at 
the Schenley last Wednesday evening. 1 
Many plans for the coming calendar 
years were discussed and much interj 
est was manifested in the coming CJ 
semesters activities in and about 11] 
school. Among the late pledges are |1 
noted Messrs. Steele, I-Iight and f]
Howell. JtI .*Jf
BATTERYIRON CITY ELMO CO |
6033 Broad St., E. E.
All Kinds 0; BATTERIES SERVICE Repaired and Rechargcd
li^J(i^Mi!llh!Ji;J/['J(('ll!iiii.uii,!ii;ijii!JQilt}iJfl,iQlJr!|irJicJ|p1if'!ip|fni|i'iigfgJgMgMgMBJgi5J5i5i5iBMgJBJ5J5JgJ5J5ic
JUNIOR ARCHITECTS OUT
FOR BASKETBALL CHAMP
of obtaining for Tech a position in 
track circles well up toward the top 
step of the ladder. The men running 
under plaid colors were in the order 
of placing in the meet; Densietli, An
drew, Benter, Miller, Baird, Lawson, 
Howe and Kossler.
Manager Trent called his team to
gether last Thursday afternoon at 
tho gym for another round of. frolic. 
Tho team appeared as usual with tho 
old time pop, along with many 
anxious substitutes. The fellows aro 
gottlng away from tho Marion Mor
gan Dancing style and are develop 
lug.into a Cast aggregation, with hopes 
of winning the intor-school champion
ship.
FARM SUPPLIES 
BUTTER TO FACULTY
A big bit for six bits.
Mr. Harry L. Gage recently ad
dressed the Detroit Typothetae, which 
is now considering the question of 
giving a Detroit Scholarship in the 
Department of Printing.
iu&4! lk ..te. or some or^
Today Miss McGinnis, at the Bean
ery, is disposing of butter from the 
Schools farm at Glencairn, to any 
faculty member whose salary permits 
him to purchase it. This lot includes 
40 or 50 pounds, which is sold at above 
40c per pound, which is cost price plus 
expressage.
OPHELEUM ENTERTAINS
MEMBERS AND FRIENDS
An informal dinner and get-together 
was held by thirty members and
