SEE YOU AT THE 
GAME FRIDAY 
NIGHT(Ehr (Jaran
COME OUT AND 
HELP HANS MAKE 
A TRACK TEAM
VOL. XIII. NO. 3.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAFEB. 12, 1919
BRIGHT PROSPECTS FOR BASE BALL SEASON
Great MusicGreat EatsGreat Girls
Everything GreatLets go
TECH BAGS TWO GAMES ON EASTERN TRIP ICLASS SIX GRADUATES FROM NAVAL SCHOOL
The Junior Prom
FEBRUARY 28
SIGMA RHO WELCOMES OLD MEMBERS RETURN
First Lieut. M. Edwin Green, cap
tain of the basket ball team of 16 
and '17, came back to school last 
week on a visit.
Lieut. Green was a Junior Design 
student and a member of Sigma Rno 
Fraternity.
He enlisted in the air service, and 
was sent to France early in the war. 
In January, 1918, he was sent to the 
front, and was leader of the famous 
94th Aero Squadron, made up of 
Lieuts. Campbell, Rickenbacker and 
other famous American aviators. 
Lieut. Green has five planes to his 
credit, three of which , are official.
Lieut. C. J. Schuemacher, first as
sistant cheer leader, 16-17, is back 
to school to finish his course in 
pbchitecture. Lieut. Schuemacher ensted in the air service in August, 
,nd was made flying instructor later, 
iter which he was sent to France, 
le came back in January.
The alumni and active members of 
Sigma Rho fra/ternity held a smoker 
Saturday night. Lieutenants Green, 
Schuemacher and Ammerman told of 
heir experiences in France.
First Lieut. W. T. Ammerman has 
[eturned from France, and is spendng a few days with some of his 
friends at. Tech. Lieut. Ammerman 
was varsity basket ball manager in 
.1916. He was Senior Design Student 
Vhen he joined the army and a mem'ber of the Sigma Rho fraternity. 
Lieut. Ammerman was commissioned 
first lieutenant in Field Artillery, and 
-went to France in command of anti
aircraft machine gunners.
SCIENCE SENATE HOLDS IMPORTANT MEETING
;A meeting of the Student Senate 
of Science School was held Thursday, 
February 6, 19&.
Mr. Nufctal ported for the Bulle
tin Board Committee. This commit
tee will submit new' regulations for 
bulletin boards in the near future.
Mr. Armor read 'the' letter which 
the Club Room Committee had sub
mitted to the faculty. The answer 
to this letter has as yet not been 
received.
The faculty proposes to make a 
technical reference library out of the 
room which was formerly used as 
club room. The Senate desires that 
the room remain a club room. At 
the present time there is no club 
room for general use in the Science 
School.
The condition of the campus was 
discussed. In order to have uni
formity in the freshman regulations 
of -the Science, Design and Industry 
Schools, the student council submit
ted new regulations for approval. 
Several details did n6t satisfy the 
Senate so the regulations were not 
accepted but are to be resubmitted 
after being amended.
Thursday morning saw the depart
ure of 'the Tech basket ball team on 
its Eastern trip. Scoops Carey 
caught the train. The party included 
the new coach Bert Bianchi, for
mer Allegheny College star, and 
eight players. Gretzler (captainj, 
Lynn, Carey, Abrams, Hammann, Foxon, Nicliol, Good and manager. The 
first stop was Milton, Pa., from 
which place the team traveled to 
Lewisburg (Bucknell College), on the 
original Tunerville Trolley. Every
one was pretty well shaken up except 
Gretzler, who read a magazine the 
whole way and said he felt right at 
home. Just like the street cars in 
Corry.
The first game .on the trip was 
lost to Bucknell. The game in detail 
is as follows:
Tech37. Bucknell45.
Abrams ...................................... Townsend
Hammann ............................... Mathieson
Gretzler ...................................... Gerhart
Lynn .................................................. Waddell
Carey ......................................................... Bell
' Score end of first halfTech, 16; 
Bucknell, 25. GoalsAbrams, 3; 
Greztler 5; Lynn, 1: Townsend. 2; 
Mathieson. 6; Gerhart, 5; Waddell. 
2; Bell. 1: Dorris, 1. Foul goals 
(Continued on ^age Four.)
CANDIDATES FOR TRACK
MANAGER WANTED
With 'the opening of spring
 training today the call is sent
 out for men First expect to become candidates for Track Manager. These men will report to
 track room. Tech Gym, at. 
4:30 this afternoon.
On Friday, February 7, 1919, Class 
Six. of the United States School of 
Turbine Engineering, held their 
graduation exercises, which were in 
every way a great success.
The men formed in front of the 
Central Building, and from there 
marched in good order toward the 
Barracks, where they were reviewed  
by Dr. Arthur A. I-Iamerschlag. The 
review was one of the best ever seen 
about the school, and no remarns 
other cluin favorable, were to be 
heard anywhere. One of the most 
interesting moments of the mens 
stay here was the speech, later de
livered) to them by President I-Iamerschlag. His acklress was delivered 
on The Principals of Efficiency Re
quired by the Merchant Marine. He 
clearlydwelt upon t he importance of 
the operation of the turbine engine, 
and the part it had and would play in 
the countrys welfare Such import
ance had long been fel't. and the pro
duct which this school was now 
turning out was a .realization of the 
fact.
When the officers have finished 
their four weeks course here at Tech 
they are sent to the works of the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
CLUB TO HOLD BANQUET
The Building Construction Club 
held a special meeting Friday, Febru
ary 7, to make special arrangements 
for the get-together feed, which is to 
be given Tuesday, February 11.
The banquet committee reported 
that the plans were complete. All in
dications joint toward an equal pre
war Leu1.'! banquet. Watch us go.
HANS WAGNER TO COACH PLAIDBASEBALL TEAM THIS YEAR
Courtesy Pittsburgh Post
HANS WAGNER
Named As Physical Director. 
Good Baseball Schedule
AN EVENTFUL SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
MINERS AND METALS ENJOY PLEASANT EVEN'G
The C. I T. branch of the American 
Institute of Mining Engineers, Col
legiate iSection, held a meeting and 
smoker last Monday night. The fea
ture of themeeting was a talk by 
Mr. Wile on Electric Tin Smelting 
in Bolivia. Mr. Wile is the manager 
of several smelters in Bolivia, and his 
talk was very interesting and in
structive, covering the living con
ditions in Bolivia, as well as the 
;echnical side of his w.ork.
After the talk, an enjoyable hour 
amid the stogies was spent, and 
doughnuts and cocoa were served.
LENTY CONCERTS F0R_ 1USICAL CLUBS1PR0GRAM
The Glee Club made its first pubi appearance at the general assem
bly in Carnegie Music Hall on 
Wednesday morning. At present the 
members number 50. There are 
tiany candidates for every position, 
with -the result that the competition 
very keen. Both clubs are work
ing hard on a program for the first
I fir concert, which is only three weeksIf' off.I
 During the past week Messrs.
Sweeney and Cost returned to school.
| Their presence has greatly strength
ened the mandolin club. Mr. Bat| man has also returned and has en
tered into his duty as assistant mana
ger with much pep.
The Musical Clubs will have their 
picture taken next Sunday, February 
| 16, in the foyer of the Design School, j 
It -at 2 p. m. sharp. All men out for j 
\\ the clubs should be there at 2 oclock!
II sharp. The men must have on dress if suits with white vests and ties. Be
there ait 2 oclock sharp.
|ljf' The get-together smoker of the 
\j| Musical Clubs will be held on Tuesday evening, February 25, in the 
Union. Come out and learn to know 
the fellow next to you. Tliere will 
be plenty of smokes and cider, as well 
as stunts. The best stunts will be 
used as specialties on the program.
Mr. Faville, the manager, reports 
that concerts are coming fast. Arangemtns are just completed for the 
hio trip. Announcement later 
atcli for the date of the Home cont.
WILL THE. PIECES
tVER LEARN?
NEW STUDENT CENTER ORGANIZED IN OAKLAND
-? Yes, of course, you have noticed^ 
the cartoon. No, it is not an illustra
tion from Dickens. The pictured 
event actually occurred. Right in 
that proverbial workshop, Science 
School.
An institution of general interest to 
Tech students is the New Oakland 
Community House, which is being 
organized in connection with Oak
land Methodist Episcopal Church and 
is to occupy temporary quarters in 
the parsonage next to the church. 
While the enterprise is being sup
ported by the above mentioned 
church it is interdenominational in 
its purpose and plan, the idea being 
to furnish a general center that will 
act as a clearing house for the activ
ities of all organizations interested 
in student welfare. The ultimate 
aim is to organize an Institute of 
Morals and Religion which, by 
means of scientific laboratory methods, 
will do the same thing in its general 
field that the Carnegie Institute is at 
present doing for music, literature, 
art and science. This program is to 
be supplemented by abundant social 
and recreational features, not the 
least of which will be a high class 
restaurant, where home cooked meals 
will be furnished at cost. The last 
mentioned feature will be added as 
(Continued on Page Three)
Take special note of the enlighten
ed expression on the faces of the 
seated gentlemen. They are. Science 
freshmen. Incidentally, it may he in
teresting to know that those wield
ing the paint brush and shearsare 
Sophomores.
The Science Assembly met atjll:30, 
Wednesday, February 5. Several 
men were tried out as cheer leaders. 
President Creighton of the Freshmen 
class spoke to the Freshmen. He 
advised them that any impending 
action was sanctioned by Dean Mott. 
Chairman Mills, of the Freshmen 
regulations committee of the senate, 
explained the functions of his com
mittee and of the Sophomores.
Chairman Nicliol, of the Freshmen 
conduct committee, now took charge 
of the meeting. Four Freshmen were 
summoned. This was to be the first 
haircutting rwrty of the year.
I Oh, how the Sophomores did rush 
for a place of prominence! The 
Freshmen quietly viewed the pro
ceedings. Before the meeting ad
journed three men lost their hair and 
a fourth Freshman went back to 
babyhood.
INDUSTRIES SENIORS HOLD DINNER PARTY
The Senior Class of the School of 
Applied Industries held a dinner party 
at the Laurel restaurant Monday, 
February 3. Each Senior had nothing 
but congratulations for the committee 
which made the arrangements for the 
party. Oh, Boy! It was 100 per 
cent Tech.
Men, this is another manifestation 
that the ol Tech spirit is returning.
ATHLETIC BOARD HOLDS FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
The first meeting of the Athletic 
Board of Control was held last Wel-! 
nesday evening at 7:80 p. m. The 
election of a president was the first 
item to be attended. The result of 
the ballot announced Geo. Ellerton, 
Jr., as president; Early was elected 
vice-president, and A. F. Colmery, 
secretary.
The first business to be 'transacted 
was the approval of athletic mana
gers and captains, 0, B, Sjchmlclt 
was approved as Crack captain, and 
C. K. Little as track manager. N. ,1 
Campbell was declared football man 
ager.
A discussion was held ovor a track 
coach but no doclnlon was reached. 
A meeting has been called for the 
near future.
ENCOURAGES SCHOOL TO WELCOME I5TH ENGINEERS
At last weeks assembly of the 
School of Applied Industries, Prof. 
Leeds gavp a very' Interesting talk. 
He spoke of Tech Spirit" in Clio past, 
and what it, will be In the future. He 
told of the. success of graduates and 
the opportunities which await the 
men of the School of Applied Indus
tries.
Prof. Leeds spoke of the men from 
Tech who enlisted in the old Fifth 
Pioneers, and were later changed to 
the Fifteenth Engineers. These men 
are to return from France in the near 
future. Prof. Leeds urged that some 
action be taken to help welcome these 
old Tech boys home.
At the same assembly, Mr. Hox 
worth, an old man from Industries, 
spoke. Mr. Hoxworth was discharged 
from the Ordnance Department of 
the Army several days ago.
John (Hans) Wagner, greatest 
figure in baseball history, has been 
signed to a contract to be a physical 
director at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. 1-Ie will not be merely 
a coach, but he will have charge of 
the development of a general athletic 
program. While he will personally 
coach the baseball team when the 
season opens at the local school, he 
will not confine his work to the var
sity teams alone. 1-Ie will have charge 
of regular competitive games among 
all students.
His work will be similar to Hugo 
Bezdelcs at State, Bill Donovans at* 
Harvard, Fitzpatricks at Princeton, 
and the late Mike Murphys at the 
University or Pennsylvania.
The mass athletic idea which Bezdek worked out so well at State dur
ing the last six months will bo car
ried out by Wagner at Tech. Where 
Bezdek specialized on the coaching of . 
the football team, Wagner will con
centrate his real coaching work on 
the baseball nine. With any kind of 
material the famous Dutchman will 
bo able to got together a strong dia
mond, organization.
1-Ie will pay particular attention to 
the physical conditioning of the stu, dents. His long experience in the 
major leagues, during which he made 
so many trips: South and learned the 
fundamentals of keeping athletes In 
shape, will stand him in good stead 
In his present position.
This Is virtually the first job Wag
ner has. taken since his retirement, 
from baseball. 1-io has been offered 
many lucrative positions, but, ever 
conscientious, the famous shortstop 
refused to trade on his reputation as 
a baseball hero to got a soft thing in 
some other lino of work. His salary 
at Tech was1 not dlvulgod, although It. 
is believed that the contract contain
ed substantial figures.
Tech lltUJ uuulo a ten-strike In se
curing the services of the great Wag
ner. Tech Is In for more recognition 
In an athletic way with, J. IIonilB 
there to develop Che stars.
LIBERAL SUBJECTS IN 
ENGINEERING SCHOOL
At the request of the Doan of Lho 
Central Faculty, Dr. Whipple'of the 
Department, of .Educational Itesearch 
at. the Institute, has prepared a com
parison of the percentage of time de
voted In engineering curricula 'lo nonprofosslonal subjects (ISngllsh, his
tory, modern languages, political sci
ence, economics and free electives )- 
which reveals the following figures: 
Modi. Elec. Civil 
Eng. Eng. Eng.
C. I. T.......................... 19.3 26.4
Cornell ........................ 2.8 2.7
, Pennsylvania, .......... 9.7 10.1
Mass. Tech.................. 14.5 13.9
Univ. of Wash......... 10.2 17.8
Wisconsin ................ 9.2 17.8
Illinois ........................ 19.1 19.6
Purdue ........................ 27.2 31.5
22.9 
6.0 
8.3
18.1
17.9 
7.0
16.8
27.2
GIRLS OF MELLON HALL EN JOY IDANCE GIVEN THEM
The girls of Mellon I-Iall enjoyed a 
dance Friday night;, given by the girls 
in the Annex, in honor of those in 
1 the Main House. They danced from 
j 8.30 to 12, Punch and cakes were 
served throughout the evening, DecoI rations and pragrams earled out the 
I suggestion of St. Valentine's Day. 
j The music consisted of Barrows at. 
I the ni*no. with bnnlo nccOmnainmont.
DESIGN COSTUME BALL TO DE HELDJN MARCH
Plans are under way in the Design 
School for the great Costume Ball, to 
be given in that school. The Senate 
will hold a meeting in the near future 
at which these plans will be disj cussed. The exact date of the ball 
j is not decided upon, but it will prob
ably be held in the latter part of 
March. The Costume Ball this year 
I promises to be an extraordinary afI fair, and, according to present plans,
| will be either Oriental, Cubist or 
I Allied. Mr. Hornbostle Is chairman 
of the committee on arranging the 
I hall. There will be faculty members, 
art well as students, on this commit
tee.
| The Senate of flu* Design School 
j has had no regular meeting as yet. 
The question of Plebe Regulations 
will also be taken up at the forth* f'OrnfnP moptlnrr,
EAST DORM MEN ALSO 
JAZZ UP TOE FROSH
The hair-cutting which took place 
at the Science Assembly made the 
governing board of East Dormitory 
feel that it was a little lax with the 
Freshmen who have persisted in 
breaking rules.
A meeting of the board was called 
Wednesday evening. The offending 
Freshmen were given a very formal 
trial, and then awarded appropriate 
punishment. The governing board 
acted as jury, with President King as 
judge.
It has been rumored that several 
of those who were sontonced com
pleted their studies for Thursday, 
.wlfliout sitting down. Quiet has pre
vailed in the dormitory ever since.
The dale for commencement for 
1919 has been set for June 27. It 
| will bo the same for all schools.
A foolish consistency in the hobgob
lin of little minds, adored by little 
statesmen and philosophers and dts.MEdw lijripr^on
ECH. vs. WESTMINSTER, FRIDAY NIGHT

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1919
ariatt
Published e.ery week by undergraduates of the ('arregle Institute of 
Technology.
Entered In the posto/llce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.00
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.25
Editor-in-Chlcf ..................................................................................................LeRoy K. Emerich
Phone Hazel 9422
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
Assistant Managing Editor
School Editors
M. M. C. S................Margaret Sondheim
Design ...................................... 0. L. Miller
Industries..............................I. R. Rudisill
Science ........................................A. C. May
Night...................................... Julius Foster
Athlctic Editor 
M. S. Care 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
TARTAN OFFICE...
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaeffer 
Helen Young 
Other Assistants 
I. Sissman 
BUSINESS 
Business Manager 
T. A. Alsworth 
Phone Hazel 425 
Assistant Business Manager 
II. F. Scheetz, Jr. 
Advertising Manager 
W. F. Kelley 
Circulation Manager 
1-1. 0. Atchley
Hours2:00 to 4: 
4.30 to 8:00
......................................Room 162, Design
00 Wednesdays.
Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to (he Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The. Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if-desired.
All news items ..,ust be In the sluGent postoilice, Central Building, before 
noon on Saturdays. 2
A NEW ALMA MATER
The decision ,of the Student Council'to adopt a new Alma Mater 
for Carnegie Tech deserves serious consideration. To thus set aside 
this song, which our predecessors adopted as the highest tribute to 
our college, must have required most earnest deliberation.
Each, of the many students who have graduated' from Carnegie 
since her foundation has carried with him this song as a fitting mem
ory of the school he loves. This prompts us to inquire, Why should 
the old Alma Mater be discarded and a new one substituted?
We could not expect those Carnegie men and women, who have 
spent the utmost of effort to defeat Germany and her allies, to sing 
with reverence, an Alma Mater written to the tune of  Die Wacht 
Am Rhine. Yet ours is written to the tune of .the Austrian hymn-.
 This is all we must say to justify,a change in the music.
Now for the words. We know that this song was composed with 
the best of intentions. It has hardly a flaw in its composition. But 
why do the FreShmen learn this song with such difficulty.?.* Certainly 
not because they have inferior mentalities. Is it not because of its 
abstractness in meaning? Who has as yet exactly understood the 
meaning of Gypsy tide and toiling shore?
The co-operation of each member of the four schools and of all 
Carnegie alumni should be with our present Student Council in its 
endeavor to find an appropriate Alma Mater. All who have any tal
ent whatever should try their best to compose an Alma Mater which 
will most fittingly fill the place of the song about to be discarded.
The Student Council will welcome the result of any and all 
efforts. Hand your compositions to any member.
SPIRIT
Now and then we hear expressions about the old Tech spirit be
ing revived. The statements cannot be appreciated unless you have 
a few spare moments at the noon hour to lake a stroll through the 
Hennery. There a section of tables is maintained for Faculty find 
Seniors only. II is not an uncommon sight to see Seniors come in and 
fail to find a sealin I Ik* section which is reserved lor them. Under
stand, I lie mimic Senior does not apply to every man above the status 
of a Kreshman. VVhnl we commonly see is a group of manly Juniors 
or Sophomores occupying the Senior tables, (anI they road the 
signs posted all about or are they the upholders of the old Tech 
Spirit?
11! basket ball games come under lliis heading-Spiritas they 
surely do, there certainly is some pep to us. Our team hasnt played 
before a crowd at home yet. Why dont you loosen up your weary 
muscles and put away your hammer and buy a horn. Youre paying 
for the game, why dont you go to see it? Lets see a crowd at the 
game Saturday night and raise the roof oil the gym with yells. Let 
the team know youre backing them up. .
THE CAMPUS
Did you ever hear an upperclassman yell Keep off the grass 
at a Freshman? Too bad, if you did not. Only the conclusion is 
 reached now that the old adageWhen you start to reform, re
form the reformer first-should come into practical use. We dare 
say upperclassmen and Faculty members too are helping to dis
figure our campus worse than it has been by our recent camp. We 
are glad to see the administration start to improve it by removing 
the garbage adjacent to the Science Building. The shortest line be
tween two points is a straight line of course but not when you figure 
on the beauty of the vicinity traversed by the straight line., Is it 
necessary to put up signsKeep off the grass? Not unless you 
continue to take a short-cut from Science to Machinery Hall and also 
across the Design lawn. Also, what will be done with the beautiful 
surroundings about Machinery Hallcinders, bricks, etc.?
Official Announcement
GENERAL ASSEMBLYPresident Ilamerschlag has called.a 
General Assembly of all day students and faculty at which he will 
outline policies as affecting the students for the remainder of the 
current college year. The Assembly will be held in the Carnegie 
Music Hall at 11:30 Wednesday morning, February 12th.
(Signed) ELIZABETH B. BERRY,
Secretary to the President.
zztztzzztztzzttzzztzzzzzzi 
II JUNIORS!tz tz tz
FROM : 
TO:
SUBJECT:
MJ.C.S.NlliHTSTUDENTS ENTERTAINED WEEK PAST
On the night of Thursday. Febru
ary 6, (he Secretarial Department of 
M. M. C. S. gave a party to all the 
girls who had attended secretarial 
night studies for the past few years. 
iSlxty girls came to the party, which 
was heul ir. '.lie Recreation Hall. The 
evening opened with a short business 
meeting which was followed by sing
ing Tech songs and games and danc
ing. The refreshments served were 
fiiocolate and cakes.
Ethel Sturtevant, head of the 
M. M. C. S. Secretarial Department, 
was in charge.
AVO CLUB ADOPTS A 
NEW CONSTITUTION
At. a meeting of the Are Club on 
Friday, February 7, a new constitu
tion was adopted. The Aro Club Is 
open to all students taking electrical 
courses in the School of Applied In
dustries. Profs. Calderwood and 
Mayo were members of the faculty 
who attended this meeting.
The next meeting of the Aro Club 
will be held February 14. At this 
meeting the ofllcers for the year will 
be elected. Plans for a smoker, to 
be held in the near future, will also 
be discussed.
THE R. O. T. C.
Washington, D. C., Feb. 5, 1919. 
Committee on Education and Special'Training. 
President, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
Establishment of a Field Artillery Unit of the Reserve 
Officers Training Corps at Carnegie Institute of 
Tech.
1. This war has taught the imperative need for a large num
ber of trained officers, and while this applies to every branch of the 
service, it applies in particular to such a branch as the Field Artil
lery, the officers for which, cannot be adequately trained in the 
technique of their arm within a few months, if at the same time they 
must receive their basic military education. By means of the trainingafforded af the Field Artillery R. O. T. (..unit successfully operated 
at Yale University prior to the entrance of this country* into the 
great war, a large number of very valuable officers was obtained by 
the Field Artillery. The.great value of continuing to utilize the 
schools and colleges of the country for such training is apparent, and 
it is now desired by the Field Artillery to establish a Field Artillery 
R. 0. T. C. unit at your institution, as well as other colleges. It is 
realized that the work of the R. 0. T. C-. un-its.-at colleges and univer
sities must be made worth while, both in an educational and military 
way, and must be so outlined as to make the results of permanent 
value, and produce efficient officers.
2. Such units can be established very effectively under the Act 
now in force, but it is believed that the Act can be so modified and 
G. 0. 49, W. D., 1916, prescribing the regulations governing the Re
serve Officers Training Corps be so redrawn as to allow this work 
of training officers to be performed in a much more efficient manner 
and on a larger scale than formerly. This, however, is largely a mat
ter of military policy, and the process must be spread over a period 
of some length. G. 0. 49 is now in the process of revision along 
broaclcr and more liberal lines, but until such time as this has been 
completed the R. 0. T. C. units will continue' to operate under this 
order, it being understood with the Faculty and the detail officers as 
Professors of Military Science and Tactics that pending -the restora
tion of normal conditions in our colleges, the provisions of this order 
will be applied very liberally.
3. The Field Artillery courses of instruction will be flexible 
enough to fit local curricula; and conditions. It is intended to supply 
trained instructors and a well organized course will justify the in
stitutions in giving credits towards a degree for military work. Only 
the strictly essential subjects will be required, permitting the student 
to fit these, as well as elective subjects, into the course which he de
sires to pursue at college. All subjects except those in Military 
Science should be taught by College Instructors.
4. The Field Artillery courses ultimately decided upon will em
brace the following salient features:
a. A few academic subjects prescribed as prerequisites for a 
commission, as, for instance, mathematics, to include algebra, geom
etry, trigonometry, and analytical geometry; general physics, or 
ganic and inorganic chemistry, etc.
b. A minimum of strictly. technical military subjects; to be 
taught by Army officers detailed for the purpose.
e. Physical training will be an important feature of the course 
(equitation and horsemanship to be a part of the Field Artillery 
couV.se).
cl. During the academic year the major part of the course will 
be devoted to academic and theoretical work.
e. Three summer camp^oT approximately six weeks each, where 
it will be the plan to give .the most interesting and instructive kind 
of intensive training.
5. The complete necessary equipment, including artillery ma
terial. and animals, and an adequate staff of Field Artillery instruc
tors, will be furnished so that the course as given will be interesting 
popular, and of unquestioned educational technical value.
6. Attention is invited to the fact that the establishment of a 
Field Artillery unit may be in conjunction with other types of units 
already established, or which may be established in the future at your 
institution, except in conjunction with a Coast Artillery unit. It is 
the policy, of the committee not to establish both Field Artillery and 
Coast Artillery units in the same institution.
7. In order to efficiently conduct a Field Artillery unit, an en
rollment of between one to two hundred members in the unit is 
desirable.
8. It is requested that you take under consideration the estab 
lishnient of a Field Artillery unit of the R. 0. T. C. Immediately that 
a favorable reply is received from you, aField Artillery Officer of 
suitable rank will be directed to proceed to your institution in order 
to perfect all arrangements for the organization and equipment of 
the unit.
9. It is requested that you notify this committee through the 
District Military Inspector, 3d District, No. 6, Law School Building, 
Univ. of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., your wishes concerning the 
installation* of a Field Artillery unit at your institution.
Committee on Education and Special Training.
By: B. A. TOLBERT,
Major, C. A.
Officer in Charge of Special Units'.
FROM: Committee on Education and Special Training.
TO: President, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
SUBJECT: Coast Artillery Units of the R. 0. T. C.
1. During this war, the Coast Artillery Corps furnished the 
officers and enlisted personnel for the army artillery, the trench motor 
artillery, .the railway artillery, and the anti-aircraft artillery used 
on the western front, in addition to manning the coast defenses of 
this country. In so far as now can be foreseen, it will be the function 
of the Coast Artillery to man this armament in the future.
2.' The large number of officers required for this expanded ar
tillery service were, during tl^ war, obtained, to a great extent, from
tztztztzitztztz
SENIORS!
Were counting on you for
ALUMNI!
The Junior Prom
FEBRUARY 28
the graduates and students of the engineering courses in our univer
sities and colleges. It was necessary to give the officer candidates 
thus obtained an intensive course of instruction at the Coast Ar
tillery Training Center before they werC competent to function as 
commissioned officers." A properly organized course of military train
ing in these colleges, such as is authorized by G. 0. 49, W. D. 1916, I 
would have increased very greatly the efficiency of the officers ob-/ 
tained from these schools and would have decreased materially th 
time required to fit them for service with troops.
3. It is very necessary and desirable that advantage be taken, 
of the provisions of G. 0. 49, and that a Reserve of officers suitable for 
service with the various types of armament above mentioned'and for 
other technical services required of the Coast Artillery be built up 
in your universities and colleges, taking advantage of the military, 
value of the courses already existing in the schools and adding there 
to such military subjects as may be necessary. The standard engi
neering courses as taught in our universities and colleges furnish an 
excellent foundation for the training required for an officer of heavy 
mobile artillery, anti-aircraft artillery, and artillery of position. The 
establishment of Coast Artillery R. O.T. C. units, in accordance with 
the Act of June 3, 1916, and G.60. 49, W. D. 1916, will enable the 
universities and colleges to supplement their regular courses of in
struction with military instruction, which together with the military 
value of the subjects contained in the regular courses will enable 
their graduates to qualify as Reserve Officers of the Coast Artillery 
Corps,
4. G. 0. 49 is in process of revision, and will be redrawn upon as 
broad' and liberal lines as possible, in order to allow the maximum 
advantage to be taken, in the process of training officers, of the 
existing courses and facilities of the universities and colleges and to 
cause the added military instruction to be of the maximum value tothe institution, not only by reason of the military training -but be
cause of its general educational and technical value.
5. A course of instruction for Coast Artillery R. O.T. C. units, 
is in process of preparation, and will be furnished you upon its com
pletion. The following will govern in formulating this.course:
(a) ,Full advantage will be taken of the technical subjects al
ready in the several courses at. the universities and colleges and 
which logically form a part of the education of a Coast Artillery R. 
0. T. C. officer, and military credit will be-given thei-efor.
(b) Such military subjects as may be necessary will be added,! 
but every effort will be made to select such subjects and to teach 
them in such a way that they will be of real interest and valuable ad
dition' to the academic course.
(c) The work during the academic year will be mainly aca
demic and theoretical instruction, with a necessary amount of sys
tematic physical training. At least two summer camps of instruc
tion will be required during the four years course and practically all 
drill instruction and outdoor training will be given in these camps 
and not during the academic year.
(d) The course will be made so flexible that it can be readily 
adapted to the special conditions of each university or college*.
(e) Academic subjects included in the military course will be 
taught by the college instructors. The military subjects proper will 
be taught by specially selected officers detailed as professors or as
sistant professors of military science.
(f) It is not intended to disturb or displace any units of other 
branches which may be already established at an institution and a 
Coast Artillery Corps unit is offered in addition thereto, dr as a sub
stitute in any case where a Coast Artillery Corps unit may be pre
ferred by the institution authorities to one already existing.
(g) The purpose will be to make the military course of such 
general instructional value that credit will, be given toward a degree 
in the academic department for work done in the military course.
(h) It is desired that each Coast Artillery R. 0. T. C. unit 
numbers at least fifty students.
(i) The Coast Artillery course of instruction will include all 
artillery other ihan the Divisional Field Artillery. The instruction 
in the service of coast defense guns will be but a part oi; a broad gen
eral course of instruction in the theory and practice of artillery of 
position and mobile artillery.
6. Upon the granting authority for the establishment of such a 
unit a suitable Coast Artillery officer will be sent to the institution 
to take charge of the organization and equiinnent of the unit .and to 
conduct the training thereof.
7. Such material pertaining to the various types of mobile and 
fixed armament manned by the Coast Artillery as may be available 
will be furnished the institution as training equipment.
S. It is requested that you take under consideration the estab
lishment of a Coast Artillery R. 0. T. C. unit at your institution; 
Should you-decide to make application for the establishment of such 
a unit, it is requested that you .inform this office through District 
Military Inspector, Third District; Univ. of Pennsylvania, Phila
delphia, Pa., of the approximate number of students that would be 
enrolled therein. Upon the receipt of this information, a decision will 
be made as to the practicability of establishing a Coast Artillery R> 
0. T. C1. unit at your institution.
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND SPECIAL TRAINING.
By: B. A. TOLBERT,
Major, C. A.
Officer in Charge of Special Units.
TECH PLAYS WESTMINSTER HERE FRIDAY, FEB. 14
Tech will play a home game Fri
day night this week. The basket ball 
team will meet the Westminster five 
on the gym floor. The game is going 
to be a fast one, as the Tech passers 
are putting up a good game, and 
Westminster also is expected to be 
on their roes that evening. There will
be dancing after the game, 
body come.
EveryNEW APPOINTMENT MADE IN MILITARY DEPARTMENT
The Military Department has an
nounced the appointment of Major 
Harry W. Holland, of the Engineer 
Corps, to Tech. Major Holland will 
be an instructor in Military Science 
and Tactics, and. will report at Tech 
in the near future.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 11THE TARTANPAGE THREE
I
BULLSHEVIKI BUREAUINTERFRATERNITYLEAGUE SCORES OF LAST WEEK
OKEH
NEWARROW
SEYYOU
CLUETT. PEABODY li Co. Ac. jKqkers
i
EATS
Cigars and Candies
pi ra mi1nil f fi^jg f3jjajg_rgig|gjQ]fQijgj3j2f3M332J3Jc!J2/
Get It At Theo 5 a 10 I
i W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS 
I Forbes and Atwood Sts.
jgj Phones 1603160 Sehen ley H
I special Prices to tech g 
STUDENTS
lll!lll!ll!IIIIIII!niI!l!!llllllllllll!!lll!IIIII!ll!l!l!lli^
Mens Handkerchiefs
CHURCHES
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, lu:00 and
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu
dents.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
-.hady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
100 P. M.
I Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
/Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
^YARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
|Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN j 
CHURCH .]
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.,
Minister. !j
Preaching Services 11 and 8. *
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7. ?;
We want the Tech boys to at*j
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of *\ 
Friendly People. A hearty *s 
welcome awaits you.
EditorMr. Phillup Space. 
ReporterMr. I. Gettem. 
Women's Dept.U. B. Have. 
CensorC. Kuttem.
THAT WEDNESDAY MATINEE
Whats it like to have a nice, new 
hair-cut? Ask the man who owns 
one.
Wanted.A scythe, by Science 
Sophs.
The man who invented interest 
must have been a distant relative of 
the barber who loaned the clippers 
for Wednesdays entertainmpnt. as 
Red Sweeley was seen late Wednes
day afternoon in this Darbers shop 
getting the remains of his fleecy 
locks shaved off. This barber's 
business ability is being wasted. He 
should be selling suits for SecondStory Morey.
The clippers took one look at' that 
red hair. and then went on a strike. 
F. I. Smith and C. T. McClean, after 
a considerable amount of coaxing? 
went to Margaret Morrison for scisDoctor Esqueire Utended the mati
nee on Friday. Hair pie was the des
sert at the beanery. Efficiency
To increase suffering and lessen 
happiness: to aid mankind in its 
downward path; to degrade and de
face lifes work, however noble; these 
are womens preogatives.
I. M. A. FLUICER.
Science1492. 
I n d u s tryMa y be.
DesignNever.
M. M. C. S. would like to be.
We think this poor boy is just a 
little hard on the women. We are 
sure he is not a woman-hater. Maybe 
some bird got HIS favorite girl for 
the Triangle Dance and he was . feel
ing pretty rocky when he wrote it.
The Civil Engineering Section 
wishes to call to the attention of the 
proper authorities the fact that, as 
yet, no classes have been scheduled 
for Civil Sophs on Saturday morn
ings. They do not wish to intrude in 
any way,'but at this'time is most cer
tainly wasted, they thought it 'had 
been overlooked. Dancing, book
keeping or oral penmanship might 
well be scheduled for that morning.
Say, have you been in Sciences old 
club room since it hasbeen fixed up 
again? Its all there. Leather chairs, 
duspidors, Pall Malls, n everything.
It is rumored that the Triangle 
Club held a meeting in Design School 
Boiler Room,-at 7:11, Satruday morn
ing.
According to Prof. Keller, the only 
time a good engineer does not have 
a log book with him is when he is 
half dressed.
Have you heard that piano in the 
Union lately? About the only thing 
left to identify it is its looks. It 
sounds like the testing department of 
the Klaxon factory.
O, I do wish they would give us 
Military Drill! Chorus: Drag'im
out!
[ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Services, 8:00 a. m., 11:00 
.. m. and 8:00 p. m.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, 
led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
Students Welcome
1920.
SonSay, .Dad; what did you do 
in the World War?
FatherWith a tear in each eye, 
with words that came from his heart, 
in a deep, saloonisli tone, that re
sounded over the whole house, even 
unto the neighborhood, answered: 
My. boy, I was a corporal in the S. 
A. T. C.
The basket ball games of the Interfraternity League, played last 
week showed that there is some real 
pep being displayed among the 
amateur passers. The contests are 
becoming taster and more exciting 
as the games go on. The leading 
teams at present are Tau Gamma 
Phi and Woodlawri Club both having 
won their two games played. A 
larger attendance is desired at the 
games as the players always re
spond to support from an audience. 
The games come on Tuesday and 
Thursday nights and are free. Every
one is welcome. The results are as 
follows:
Zeta Lambda Epsilon30
East Dorm.27.
Greiner ......................F.................... Roma)
Giffon .........................F...................... Wo ton
Elliott .............C................................ Petry
Ravenscroft ...........G....................... Keller
Fawcett ....................G................. Kennedy
Field goalsRavenscroft, 5: Gifton, 3; Elliott, 3; Greiner, Norton, 
5; Petry. Goals from foulsElliott, 
6; Petry. Goals, ,15. RefereeLynn.
Delta Epsilon33. Theta Xi11
Dreux .......................F----... Stopalcoff
Schlumf ...................F................... Sample
Davidson ...................C.......................... Y lie
Smith ..........................G........................ Rehm
Lawson .....................G............ Hender on
Field goalsSchlumf, 6; David cn 
5; Lawson, 2; Stopalcoff, Sample, 
Yelle. Foul goalsStopalcoff, 5; 
Schlumf, '7. RefereeLynn.
I CARNEGIE TECH 
I RINGS AND PINS
 NEAL J. CAMPBELL
 JUNIOR CIVIL, SCIENCE SCHOOL
 5540 FORBES STREET, PITTSBURGH
= Representing College Shop Jewelers, St. Louis. Phone Hazel 1997
illlmr
FIRST CALL FOR TRACK MEN MADE BY NEW COACH
Sigma Nu11. Woodlawn Club15.
Daggert ............ ..F.......... Miller, J. R,
Krane .....................F....................... Iioban
Slcyrm ' ......................C........................ Gare
Aul ............................G................... Ellerton
Curtice ....................G...................... Schmdi
Field goals'Slcyrm, 4; Kraue, 2; 
Hoban, 2; Miller, Gare. Foul goals 
Miller. 7; Daggert, 1. , Referee 
Davidson.
T. G. P.29. Phi. Ep. Pi17.
Rudy ........................F.................... Reisman
Mathews ...............F.:... Weiscluvlcy
Lind .........................C.............. Finlcelhor
Montstream .........G........................ Levine
Bliss ........................G...................... Cohen
Field goalsRudy, 3; Mathews. 2; 
Lind, S; Wefschoslcy, 3; Finlcelhor.. 
2. FoulsLind, 3; Weisclioslcy, 10.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT RECEIVES COSTUMES AS TRIBUTE TO MANSFIELD
The widow of Richard Mansfield 
has given our drama 'department a 
'trunkful of costumes that, her hus
band wore in some of his best known 
plays: Her gift came as a tribute to 
her son, Richard, who diedlast au
tumn at a.Texas flying field. Before 
enlisting he was a student in the 
drama department. Costumes that 
Mansfield wore as Peer Gynt in Isbens play, Beau Brummel in Irv
ings sketch, Robert Louis Stevensons 
Macare, Rostands Cyrano de 
Bergerac, and in Shakespeares 
Sliylock in the Merchant of Ven
ice. Brutus in Julius Caesar and 
Richard 111 in the play of that name 
are included in the collection. Mrs. 
Mansfield gave the 'rest of the ward
robe to the Smithsonian Institute, 
Washington.
NEW STUDENT CENTER
ORGANIZED IN OAKLAND
Have you. noticed that fur coats 
are almost as common this year as 
Second Lieutenants?
FRED SUDDABYS 
CAFETERIA 
BUREAU OF MINES BLDG.
11 A. M. to 2 P. M.
Every school day. g
Great Eats at 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STS. 
Fred Suddaby, Propr.
a 
a
pGHT BUZZER COURSE COMMENDED BY STATE
Mr. E. F. Reed has received from 
>lr. W. P. Loomis, supervisior of Inlustrial Education at Harrisburg, a 
letter of appreciation for the work 
[tTech has done in offering night 
Ifourses in radio and buzzer work.
A list of schools which offered these 
^ourses was contained in this letter, 
he schools being arranged according 
 the merits of the courses offered, 
ech headed the list.
ATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS.
This department has not found it 
necessary, as yet, to hire any extra 
help to handle contributions. These 
columns are open to all Techites to 
publish their comic essays, poems, 
stories, etc. - The etc. covers the 
other stuff, so please get busy and 
write something. Write on one side 
of paper only and sign your name, 
school and class numerals. If you 
wish it, your name will be withheld.
SOUTH IIORM MEN RE ENTERTAINED AT TEA
Sunday afternoon from 3 to 5, 
February 2, Miss Marion Faye of Mel
lon Hall gave a tea for the men of 
the South Dorm. She had as her as
sistants the Sophomore girls of the 
hall. Chocolate and cakes were 
served to the guests and the after
noon was spent in singing and con
versation. This is the second of a 
series of teas that Mellon Hall ex
pects to give this year.
(Continued From Page One.) 
soon as the new home can be plan
ned and constructed. This building 
will be centrally located, and will be 
commodious in construction, so as to 
meet the various needs of the above 
mentioned program. The dominating 
idea is to furnish a home for the 
students of the Oakland district.
The present quarters at 3904 Forbes 
street promise to be pleasant and 
home-like. On the evening of Friday, 
February 21, will be held a grand 
opening and house warming, which 
will also serve as a reception for all 
students of the district. Dont forget 
the date.
At present, on each Sunday after
noon at 4:30, you will be welcomed 
at open house at the above address. 
If you are lonesome for friends this 
is the place to find good ones. You 
will also be served with a hot home 
cooked lunch for the sum of 15c. This 
is one place where good fellowship 
| reigns supreme and joy is unconfined.
CLASS SIX GRADUATESFROM NAVAL SCHOOL
(Continued From Page One.) 
General Electric Company, Schenec
tady, N. Y., for an intensive one 
weeks course on general electric 
equipment. Here they learn all the 
finer details required of an engineer
ing officer from the viewpoint of 
economy and efficiency.
DID YOU GET YOUR TICKET FOR
The Junior Prom
FEBRUARY 28
Hans Wagner today issued a call 
for all men who are interested in 
track work. This is the first sign of 
spring to be seen around Tech, and, 
judging fiom the early start our new 
coach is taking, the squad will be in 
fine condition for our first meet. The 
men will work out three afternoons a 
week at firstMonday, Wednesday 
and Friday; work-out being scheduled 
for 4:30 011 those afternoons. Wea
ther permitting, the squad will take 
a short jog through the park, under 
the leadership of Schmidt, this .years 
captain. On days when the weather 
is bad, the work will be in the gym. I 
The call is for all events, short dis-1 
trances, long distances, hurdles, broad j 
and high jump, pole vault and theweights.
AH events are open for new maj 
terial this year, and the early train
ing will give new men ample oppor
tunity to get the coaching and train
ing they need to compete for posi
tion's on the team.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES UNO HOSIERT ...........PEHN AND FRANKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearIf he is 
careless of that, he's apt. to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes arc built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair. Spccial Mens Dept.
DESIGN NIGHT STUDENTS OPEN EXHIBIT OF WORK
The night students of the Painting 
and Decorating Department, Design 
School, will place on exhibition 
sketches and paintings made since 
last spring. This exhibit started 
Monday night, and will continue for 
two weeks. The exhibition room, to 
the left of the-entrance to . Design 
School, will be open through the day 
and in the evenings.
WHY YOU SHOULD GET YOUR TARTAN EARLY
The Tartan wishes to extend its 
hearty thanks to the Student Body 
for its co-operation on the last edi
tion of the School Paper. There is 
nothing more encouraging, to the 
staff than to cherish the support of 
Tech.
Although Its edition is now larger 
than ever, a few hours after The Tar
tan was placed In sale, last week, 
there were 110 copies to be had. Why? 
Because the Student Body has now 
started to make itself a part of the 
staff. Every student of Tech Is a 
Booster, every one a reader.
Boxes will soon be conveniently 
placed for your write ups. Until 
then hand them in at the Postoffice.
Dont miss that next weeks copy!
AT THE THEATRES
THE DAVIS
The Davis Theater next week, be
ginning Monday afternoon, February 
17, is to present a Keith vaudeville 
program of nine acts, in which every 
note in the variety lute will be sound
ed. Twice each day, beginning re
spectively at 2:15 and 8:15 oclock, 
the performance will be given. Ed
die Leonard, with a company of 12 
burnt cork comedians, will present 
Dandy Dans Return, a tabloid ex
position of minstrelsy and the pasttimes of the Southern plantation in 
ante-bellum days. Mr. Leonard, who 
is as popular a vaudevillian as he was 
minstrelman, has surrounded himself 
with singers and dancers who visual
ize the darkey in his merriest moods, 
with a minstrels first part and an 
olio of songs and dances which will 
be interspersed with humorous dia
logue. As a composer of darkey 
melodies, Mr. Leonard occupies a 
niche in the theater of the present 
day similar to that of Stephen C. 
Foster among American song writers. 
Many of the sweetest Negro melodies 
have come from his pen. With Dandy 
Dans Return he is to introduce his 
latest song successes. These include 
Norahs Beautiful Goo Goo Eyes, 
Look er Yonder, Thats All, and 
Sweetness. A pretentious produc
tion, in scenery and special costumes, 
garnishes the act.
ing Monday morning, February 17. 
Miss Clark, .in this, is expected to 
add a captivating chapter to her 
career of good pictures. The role of 
Lovey Mary Is one that suits her 
winsome prettiness, and she has been 
surrounded by a cast that holds up 
well the standard of quality set by 
Miss Clark. The rights to pfcturlze 
the story were obtained by the Fa
mous Players-Lasky Corporation at 
great expense, but the success which 
has been predicted, for II Is expected 
to fully justify the expenditure.
The rich humqr of Mrs. Rices 
novel and play has been caught, with 
wonderful effect by Miss Clark. Lovey 
Mai^y is an immortal character, Co
in liar to all who like good stories, and 
she stands out just as Mrs. Rice 
imagined her, I11 Miss Clarks por
trayal. Besides, there are Mrs. Wlggs, 
Miss Hazy, I-Ilram Stubblns, Europena, Asia, Australy and all the rest 
of the Cabbage Patch residents. 
No truer presen I utlon of t he char
acters, homely comedy and hoart-appeal of the story could huvo been 
created, and the picture has a. touch 
of the dramatic that thrills and Inter
ests as well.
Lovey Mary Is a sort of tomboy In
mate of an. orphan asylum. She 
mothers the babies and fights the 
monitors 11 their behalf. After a 
lapse of several years she herself be
comes a monitor, taking charge of 
Tommy, child of Maggie Duncan, 
former monitor of the institution, 
now a circus woman. When Maggie 
sends word she Is coming to get 
Tommy, Mary runs away with the 
boy, and .together they arrive at the 
Cabbage Patch, where Mrs. Wiggs 
takes them in, adding them to her al
ready too numerous brood. A story 
of unusual and endearing qualities is 
developed, for the characters are true 
to life, though cast in an environment 
rarely held up to public, vehv in its 
actual light. Mrs. Rice shows them 
as they are, and Miss Clark completes 
the picture.
In the role of Mrs. Wiggs is Mary 
Carr; Miss Hazy, Vivian Ogden; Mag
gie Duncan, Gladys Valerie; Billy 
Wiggs, Gareth Hughes; Hiram Stubbins, Hubert Milash; Asia, Lola Her
nandez; Australy, May McAvoy; 
Europena, Manda Valle; Baby Wiggs, 
Marion Stewart. Others in the cast 
are Jack MacLean, Maud Hosford, 
Anita Brown and Lawrence Johnson.
Besides Mrs. Wiggs, the Grand's 
program next week will include a 
laugh-provoking Mack Sennett comrc!JcMDl/3/S/c3l2Siin/l/S/3J3/2fQ!McI/cJSJDyMij'
OAKLAND EXPRESS ID 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phones 578 and 9169 
Schenloy P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.IHouoohold Goodt. Movod, Stored, h'j 
Packed and Shipped.P
East Liberty Cameraphone
ALL WEEKNORMA TALMADGE
THE HEART OF 
WETONA
Supportod by 'Thomao Molghan. 
Coming, Frank McIntyre in 
Too Fat to Fight.
Louio Bonqlaon In "Oh, Johnny.
BELLEFIELD SHOE | 
REPAIRING
FORBES STREET 
Opposlto Carnegie Library. 0 
High class work dono while you \\ 
wait.
I. SCHWARTZ 
LOW PRICES TO TECH !; 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
BARROWS 
Jazz Orchestra
Two to Five Pieces 
AL EPSTEIN, VIOLINIST 
of the Musical Nuts of New York. 
J. RALPH BARROW, PIANIST 
of the Washington. Jazz Orchestra, 
Washinqton, D. C.
Phone Hazel 1997.
edy, Rip and Stitch, Tailors, repre
senting I-Iughle Mack, Myrtle Lind, 
Harry Gribbon, Alice Davenport, 
Teddy and Pep; a Burton Holmes 
travelogue, St. Dunstans Happy 
Blind; the Grand Novelette and the 
Grand News Weekly. The symphony 
orchestra and organ, which will be 
all-day features, will play an attrac
tive score in addition to a special 
number. Performances will be con
tinuous from 10 a. m. to 11 p. m.
(ADVERTISEMENT.)
INTERCOLLEGIATE ZIONIST AND MENORAH MEMBERS 
There will he a lecture on Zionism Th, ls one 0( a cour)je of a0V(jn
THE GRAND
Marguerite Clark, one of filmdoms 
most charming li'ttle actresses, In 
Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch, 
a photoplay made from Alice Megan 
Rices noted novel and play of the 
same name, will be the principal at
traction in the program of high class 
pictures and music at the New Mil
lion Dollar Grand all next week, startand Religion in Carnegie Lecture 
Hall, Wednesday, February 12, at 
8:15 p. 111. by Prof. Israel Friedlander, 
member of the Board of Governors of 
the Intercollegiate Menorah and' of 
the Board of Editors of The Menorah 
Journal, professor at the Jewish 
Theological Seminary, a great scholar 
and historian.
lectures, equally good. A special rate 
of $1 per season ticket wlll be glven 
any student who sends Ibis advertlsement to th undersigned, or who 
presenti II. al. ilio door of th Lecture Hall. Regular price is $2.
ZIONIST LECTURE COURSE, 
615 Berger Building, Pittsburgh.
(ADVERTISEMENT.)
0201004823482353235323532353232348235323

---------------------------------------------------

if this advertisement  
were a mile square, 
jammed with words
It wouldnt beit couldnt behalf so ;noking a Murad.convincing as sx:
"huuuuL
iSOMt
REMEMBERThere are no other 
like Murad.
cents
W
HEN you buy a pipe bearing the 
IDC trade-mark, you have the 
satisfaction of knowing that your money 
could not have bought a better pipe. The 
WD C is strictly American made. You can 
choose among a multitude of styles, sizes and 
grades at the best shops$6 down to 75 cents.
WM. DEMUTH & CO.. New York
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer
Look at the lines or this one. They flow, a delight to the eye, from the rich brown of the genuine French Briar bowl, through the sterling sheen of the ring, to the jet black lustre of the vulcanite bit.
PAGE FOURWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1919
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH! 
Smithfield Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000 
Surplus - - - - $4,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
DTD YOU MAKE TH DATE YET?
The Prom
^ IFEBRUARY 28 1
.5Hgjaf5JEHSEMaa30asa02HaEHaM25i3MiMSiaHSBaiEHEJEHajajE0Eiaiaa
LETTERS RECEIVED BY GIRLS FROM WAR ORPHAN
fillillllliiltlllllllllllllllllllllilllHullBchcnlcy :!>
* MISS OLEARY
(Formerly wllli J. 13. T. Shuman)
DH Y CLEANINGREPA I KING 
' Ladle and Mon' Clothe, Carpet, KtiitH, Portiere
I : Work Guaranteed and Turned Out on ;Bhort Nolle.Will call for all iiremdnii and cleaning [ ut Frat nrtGwG,c
3U33 FORRES STREET (Oakland) PITTSBURGH. PA.
OllllllliMilillllMIIM^
mummmmimtmwnmmummnittt,
5! OAKLAND 
SHOE REPAIRING 
COMPANY
Angelo Clemente, Prop. 
126 OAKLAND AVE. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
: mitmtimmtmmmittmmttmnmmt 
\xxxxxxxixixxxxinxmmnixnxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxixt^ 
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
; Cloths.
B. K1 JO'rT ^O.
126 SIXTH STREET, 
'.mmmiiiixniumjixmmxxiHtllttm!
immmmnmmmmmimmummmm
Buy a French Orphan of your own, 
or if you can not afford it, get your 
claBH or Hchool lo buy one. For a 
comparatively mall sum you gain a 
world of amusement and gratitude.
A number of French orphans have 
been adopted by the M. M. C. S.' 
students, both this year and last. 
Last years orphans were three in 
numbertwo" little girls adopted by 
the whole college and a little boy, 
adopted by the Class of 1920. Many 
interesting letters have been received 
from these children and their parents. 
Repeatedly writes Mademoiselle 
Marie Jeanne Capel, aged i), whose 
"Papa was slain by the wicked 
Boclie, and who "loves you, dear 
godmother (her letters are all ad
dressed to Miss Margaret Morrison) 
next to Mama. In-each of her letters 
little Marie Jeanne assures us of her 
gratitude and promises to repay 
votre bonte by being very good, 
kind and obedient, 
Here are two of Maries letters 
(translated):
Laroguebron, December 1. 
Dear Benefactress:
Although I am still a little girl, i 
have had for a long time the wish to 
write to you. 1 am very happy to be 
able to thank you today for your 
kindness to me.
I am so glad that Mother does not 
have such a hard time to bring us up. 
She speaks often of you to us, and, 
after her, you are the person whom 
love the best.
Also, as 1 know the best way to 
please you is to become a good little 
French girl, I study my hest at school, 
where.I go every day.
The school teacher tells us often 
of what the Americans did for us. 
then at once think of you who are so 
good, and who replace a little, the 
Papal whom the wicked Bodies have 
taken from me.
Yet again thanks, dear Benefac
tress.
From a little orphan of France, the 
grateful kisses are sent towards you. 
(Widow) LOUISE CAPEL.
MARIE CAPEL.
th familles of Pittsburgh, who bave 
sudi letters from thelr friends or 
relative who were in France, and 
who are willing to allow copie of 
them made, can he of very gre al help 
at Ibis lime in assisting th War De
partment to write an accurate history 
of th part our Pittsburgh men played 
in th air in th Great War.
TECH BAGS TWO GAMES
many girls will take .advantage of 
this wonderful opportunity to have an 
ideal vacation with people of like in
terests sharing good times, inter
change of wit, physical sports and 
spiritual development.
A delightful feature of Thursdays 
meeting was a scrap book, which was ; 
circulated showing pictures of vari-1 
ous events, such as games of water, 
polo, baseball between men leaders) 
dressed as women and women leaders 
in bloomers, hikes pnd boating, as 
well as wonderful landscape pictures.' 
The meeting closed with a miniature 
Eagles Mere "sing with songs and 
cheers.
UNRULY FROSH TRIED BY INDUSURY Ml
17.
Forbes and Atwoocl Sts.
WHITE
OVERALLS
FOR TECH STUDENTS
Special value 
Shirt;, Underwear 
wont*.
in Hoolory, 
and NeokXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXt
Oakland Annex
3708 FORBES ST.
Try our 40c Regular Dinners.
From 11 A. M. to 8 P. M. 
Soup, Meat, Two Vegetables, 
Dessert and Coffee and Tea.
Laroguebron, December 
Very Dear Godmother:
Now is the time for the children of 
France to write letters to those they 
love, and to sehd them their wishes 
for a Happy Year.
 As for myself, 1 take care not to 
forget you, my dear godmother, and 
with all the strength of my little 
heart, 1 wish you a. Happy New Year.
You must, indeed, believe that I 
love you dear, unknown godmother, 
and that I wish to do whal would 
please you.
It. is for that that T work a little in 
class. The teacher says she Is satisllod with mo, but I am a pleasureloving creature and like too much to 
play.
With my little friends and my 
sister, Anna, I Jump the rope, play 
hull, and as for the other games I 
play, r like all those that make me 
run or Jump, but I never miss school 
for four the teacher would scold m 
Today we have a holiday, because 
Mr. Wilson Is In France. We an 
very happy.
Mother tolls me to add to my let 
ter ,that she also wishes you a Happy 
New Year, and, as for myself, 1 send 
you my most loving caresses.
MARIE CAPEL.
PITTSBURGH FAMILIES1 URGED TO CO-OPERATE
J. I F.
SHAVING PARLOR
Hair Cutting a Specialty
3721 Forbes Street
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Abrams, 19 out of 26; Waddell, 11 
out of 18. SubstitutionsFoxon foi 
I-Iammann, Dorris t'or Townsend. 
RefereeJackson.
Loose handling of the ball and 
poor guarding caused the loss of this 
game.
The team was entertained Thurs
day night at the various fraternity 
houses at. Bucknell. Friday morning 
we left for Gettysburg by way oi 
Harrisburg, where we laid over for 
three hours and took in all the 
sights. Arrived in Gettysburg about 
7:30 p. m., Friday, and started the 
game about 8:30. Tech held a good 
lead throughout the game until the 
last few minutes of play when Get
tysburg dropped three pretty field* 
goals which brought the score to 
32 to 31 for Tech with five seconds, 
to play. Gretzler got the tip from 
center which overthrew any possible 
dangers of Gettysburg getting an
other field goal. The lineup: Score 
Tech, 32; Gettysburg, 31:
Tech. Gettysburg.
Abrams .....................F................ Mundorf,
Hammann ..................F............... Widman
Gretzler ......................C........................ Miller
Lynn ...........................G.............. Gingerich
Carey .......................G.................... Ziegler
Substitutions  Shouiss for Wid
man, Widman for Miller. Goals 
Abrams, 1; Hammann, 2; Gretzler, 
5; Carey, 1; Mundorf, 2; Widman, 5; 
Miller, 1; Gingerich, 1. Foul goals 
Abrams, 14 out of 22; Gingerich, 
11, out of 23. RefereeFluhrer. 
Score end of first half, 19 to 14 favor 
Tech.
The team left. Gettysburg at 5:55 
Saturday morning for Carlisle. Ar, rived at Carlisle about 8:30 and 
loafed until 12:00. The game was 
j called at 3:00 p. m. Of the three 
games played this was probably the 
slowest and most uneventful except 
the score which at the end of the 
game was 54 to 30 favor Tech. The 
lineup:
Tech. Dickinson.
Abrams ........................................ Mervlne
Hammann ......................................... Cohen
Gretzler .......................................... Brock
Lynn .................................................. Minlcer
Carey .................................................. Lemicli
SubstitutionsDorson for Mervlne, 
Critcher for Cohen. GoalsAbrams, 
I; Hammann, 9; Gretzler, 2; Lynn, 
-I; Carey, 1; Mervlne, 2; Cohen, 3; 
Brock, 2; Minlcer, 2; Lemicli, 1. Foul 
goals-Abrams, ,14 out of 2-1; Brock, 
8 out of 15; Coheh, 2 out of 8. 
RefereeKennedy.
Mervlne was a big boy, stood (5 
feet 2, inches and weighed 230 
pounds, lie was the supposed star 
and heavy scorer of the team, but 
was held down to 'two goals by 
"Scoops Carey.
The trip was very successful and 
showed signs of much improvement 
over the work of the first of the 
season. Practice for the Westmin
ster game Friday, February 14. will 
be started on Tuesday with the sup
port of the student body. The team 
should make a good showing against 
Westminster.
Last Wednesday afternoon the mid
dle class of the Industry School held 
a trial for several unruly Freshman, 
whose cases were tried before a court 
comprised of members from the mid
dle and upper classes. Mr. Oakley, of 
the upper class, presided as judge of 
the court, and President Lynn, of the 
middle class, served as prosecuting 
attorney. The cases of the different 
prisoners were heard and argued pro 
and con, after which the judge in
structed the jury to retire and decide 
upon the cases mentioned. The ver
dict of the jury was that two of the 
prisoners were guilty in the first de
gree, while a third was to receive 
punishment for a second degree of
fense. As a result the would-be out
laws are now wearing the Tech style 
hair-cut, which shows the proficiency 
of our new middle class barber. The 
others less fortunate to secure a free 
hair-cut have a very keen sensation 
as the result of "spanking. We do 
not believe in the old adage spare the 
rod and soil the child.
This little incident of last .Wednes
day may have to be repeated, so the 
Freshman who prizes his crop of hair 
should let this serve him as an ex
ample and take warning.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
 CAPITAL, 
SURPLUS,
"THE OAKLAND BANK
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
- $200,000.00
- $200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
WEBER EXPRESS & 
STORAGE CO.
Bell Phone 239 Schenley.
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
BEGINNERS CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
BATTERYfy
i>e
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
lj|lllllllllllllll|||llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllliililliMtlllllllllllllllllllllllllM
436 SEVENTH AVE.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
EAGLES MERE SUMMER CONFERENCE DESCRIBED
Major General Kenly, Director of 
Military Aeronautics of the War De
partment, has just announced his in
tention of gathering from every pos
sible source the personal stories of 
the men who have been with the Air 
Service overseas. These stories, for 
the most part would be contained in 
letters to friends and relatives at 
home, and would furnish information 
so vivid and authentic as to be of 
prime historical value to Govern
mental war records. The co-opera
tion of many agencies, including the 
press, is, being asked by General
A very interesting and peppy meet
ing of the Y. W. was conducted on 
last Thursday in Recreation Hall by 
Lydia McCarthy, who described the 
summer conference of college stu
dents at Eagles Mere, Pa. Margaret 
Morrison had three delegates, includ
ing Miss Holmes, our Vocational Ad
viser for Women, who is also faculty 
adviser for the Tech Y. W. C. A.
Eagles Mere is a fashionable, but 
quiet summer resort up in the moun
tains near Williamsport, about 200 
miles from Pittsburgh. The place
1 BARNES
g WALL PAPER
Wholesale and Retail 
Books furnished Paperhangers 
and Dealers.
Picture Framing a Specialty 
3618 FIFTH AVENUE 
At Atwood
xhxxxxxxxxnxxxxxxxxtxxxxxxxnixxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxii
Keney.
The authorities at' Washington, D., 
C., communicated yesterday with the i 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, re
questing that it act as a clearing | 
house in the assembling of this ma
terial, hr addition to collecting dataj 
from Its own graduates and students 
who were In the war. The people of 
Pittsburgh, who have letters of this 
kind can co-operate with the Depart
ment of Military Aeronautics in one 
of two ways: First,, by sending copies 
of their letters or excerpts from 
them, direct to Washington, address
ed to the Director of Military Aero
nautics, Sixth street and Missouri avonuo; or second, by presenting the 
original letters to Mr. Kendall D. 
Stuart at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in person or by mall, who 
will have copies made without ex| pense, and then forward the material 
to' Washington.
As this is a matter in which the 
War Department is deeply concerned,
,was not very quiet, However when 
400 college girls swarmed the two 
largest hotels, talcing advantage of all 
sports provided by lake, tennis 
courts, golf links, bowling alleys, arrow-trails and others furnished 
through their own ingenuity.
The purpose of this conference, 
which occurs annually, is to exchange 
ideas and receive inspiration for the 
V. W. C. A. work of the following 
year in colleges, Different phases of 
social service, religious worship, 
school spirit and loyalty, work for 
missions, etc., are discussed. About 
53 colleges were represented this 
year. Student government controls 
regular hours of rising, "lights out 
at night, quiet hour; etc. The fee is 
small. The conference gets the 
special rate of ?lli for bonrd and 
ooni for 10 clnys, whereas the rooms 
'or regular vacationers cost from $S0 
a week upwards. This year the Tech 
Y. W. hopes to pay the expenses .oi 
at least one delegate, but it is hoped
16561274
