YOU CANT BOOST 
THE THISTLE BY 
TEARING DOWN ITS 
POSTERS
THE TRACK TEAM
ISINT.MCWOnk"  \ \otw cumci| // n ^ I900.\^/v'
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAAPRIL 9, 1919
Keen Competition For Places on Penn Relay TeamGood Schedule ArrangedOpen With Duquesne University
The annual Soph Hop was held 
Friday night and Saturday morning 
in the Carnegie Union. About 110 
couples attended the hop, which was 
the best ever, and proved to be tlie 
best school dance of the season. A 
clever scheme o decoration was car
ried out, and it changed the dance 
hall into a place of beauty and pleas
ing to the eye. A color scheme of 
blue and gold was carried out on 
the programs while punch and fancy 
assorted cakes were served during 
the evening.
The feature of the evening was the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The war is over and most of you are 
back at the old grind again. You have 
come back to college with a deeper 
feeling than ever for your alma mater. 
But let me ask you. what are you do
ing for your college. True, you are 
doing the class work required of you, 
but is that all? Just what are you do
ing to make your college a better col
lege? What part are you playing in 
the reconstruction of all its branches? 
Do you imagine that the college will 
grow and progress without your help? 
Are you willing to sit by and let the 
procession pass, and ai'ter you grad(Continued on Page Three.)
-Coulitesy Gazette Times.
April 30th Tech 
CleanUp Day
Inter scholastic 
Meet To Be 
Big AffairAnd such a clean-up day! It will 
be one of the history-making events 
of the year. April 30 is the day set 
for the big. event. Everything will be 
done to add dignity and pleasure to 
the labor. If you are a studious upper-classman and have definitely de
cided never to do any real work, come 
out, anyway, and call it play. For it 
sure will be fun.
Imagine going to the Music Hall for 
a general assembly, hearing all the 
illustrious speakers of the school 
elucidate, then having dinner served 
by Maggie Murphs right on the 
campus. After,this, to reciprocate, 
working very diligently, cleaning up 
the debris which adorns that marvel 
of engineering achievement, the 
Hamerschlag Dam.
' We have noticed that a gang of 
men are already at work repairing' 
the campus. But don't worry, there 
will be plenty of work remaining.
Now for the momentous announce
ment. In the evening of this very 
same day there will be a "simply" 
wonderful jazz in the Union. The 
compliments of th committee in 
charge. JUst think! Something for 
nothing. And then this startling 
revelation. There will be no classes 
during all this activity. You will be 
able to labor without your conscience 
hurting you.
Mr. Stark (yes, the man who ran 
the Design Ball) .is chairman of the 
committee in charge. He will be 
gang boss. We know you certainly 
wouldnt miss seeing Mr. Stark in 
over-alls.
The Musical Clubs gave a very suc
cessful concert on Thursday evening 
in the East. Liberty Y. M. C. A. This 
is the last Concert to be given before 
the clubs leave on their trip. Owing 
to examinations, there will be no con
certs next week. The clubs will leave 
Pittsburgh on Wednesday, April 23, 
and will begin immediate preparations 
for calls for concerts in New Castle, 
Pa., Waren, Youngstown and Akron, 
Ohio.
The clubs will return from tills trip 
and will begin imediate preparations 
for the Home Concert on May 5). The 
trip has been arranged as near the 
Home Concert as possible, In order 
that the clubs will benefit from the 
trip and thus be in better practice for 
the big event.
The clubs will hold a formal dance 
after the Home Concert. This year 
has been one of the most successful 
years the Musical Clubs have ever 
had, considering the late start they 
got. It is planned, to make the Home 
Concert the climax of the most suc
cessful season.
I The big meet which is to take 
! place on May 31 will be one of the
II largest the school has ever held. A 
large number of high schools have 
^signified their intentions of entering
I and that Saturday will be a big one 
\ indeed. Elaborate plans are being
I made for 'the reception of these
I school boys and a big smoker will 
he held in the Union on that even
ing. The varsity team will have a 
dual meet at the same time which 
'  rill make the day more interesting.
Protect Your 
Campus; Keep 
Off the GrassRev. Kerr of the Shadyside Presby
terian Church was the speaker at the 
Easter meeting of the Y. W. C. A. on 
Thursday, March 27. He took for his 
subject the application of the Easter 
message to our every-day school lives. 
It was one of the most eloquent and 
interesting addresses Tech has had 
the opportunity to hear for some time. 
We feel certain that if it were .pos
sible to have a man of Dr. Kerrs 
ability at our Y. W. meetings it 
would be much easier to secure a bet
ter representation of the girls. We 
hope that Dr. Kerr will be able to 
visit us again, when we will invite the 
rest of the school to hear this elo
quent speaker.
The meeting closed with a few se
lections by a quartet from the Y. W. 
C. A.. Club.
From right and loft; wo hear 
slams" at our beautiful campus. 
Evoryone with one accord acclaims 
it a disgrace to the school. No mat
ter how practical wo become, beauty 
may always be appreciated. No mat
ter how intensive a course may be, 
with proper environment, It may bo 
made attractive.
Every student can not help but 
feel proud that Carnegie Tech has 
been selected the site of the United 
States Navy School of Turbine Engi
neering. Yet every student may 
rightly expect that the officers and 
men who have been sent here owe 
to the school at least the attitude 
that no one of them should do any
thing which will deter in any way 
the objects of the school. At pres
ent every member of the administra
tion and each student organization 
is bending every effort to make our 
campus what it should be. Money is 
bing spent andi will be spent until 
this object is attained.
On Sunday, after work had already 
begun at reclaiming the once beauti
ful Design Lawn, almost every mem
ber of the naval unit, who had occa
sion to pass this place, walked 
across the corner of the lawn. They 
did this notwithstanding signs placed 
in their way and the difficulty en
countered in plodding through the 
freshly prepared seed bed.
How can we devote our efforts in 
aiding the school in the better cam
pus movement, if we must tolerate 
such thoughtless actions on the part 
of the naval men?
There is nothing slow about .the 
Science Seniors. They believe that 
the old saying, All work and, etc. 
you know the restis true and, not 
particular about being dull, went 
out, and they fent, too. The place is 
a deep, dark secret, but they went, 
anyway, it was a good show. After 
the exhibit, they decided that the 
Seventh Avenue Hotel did not live up 
to the contract, and therefore sallied 
over to a Chinese Restaurant, and 
partook of chop suey, chow main and 
it cant be said without a mouth full 
of mush and a sneeze.
Pete Wersent thought he found a 
rats foot in his chop suey and de
cided it was -------------. Ellerton was
said not to indulge in the profanity of 
foreign dishes, but was the first to 
start .and last to stop. No wonder he 
is an athlete. Such a gift is necessary 
for noodles, anyway, or they slap you 
on the ear before they disappear.
WE ALL ADMIT IT
Yes, or, yes; we dont deny it,
So dont crab before youre sure. 
What d'yu think of this weeks 
Tartan?
Even tho last weeks pretty poor. 
You know our chief has proven able, 
So why take all your faults to him?
Who the ---------- can write a paper,
When you dont hand copy in? 
You, you pretty little freshman,
And you too, four letter man,
You can boost like all creation,
Yes, of couse, you know you can. 
So next week why write a little, 
Spend a jitney of your wealth, 
And when you read that Wednesday 
Tartan,
You wont have to curse yourself.
Write to your high school and tell 
them about the big meet on the 31st 
of May. Urge them to come and 
then show them around.
At the last meeting of the Industry 
Plebes much discussion was prompted 
by the future plans of the social side 
for the class.
The coming dance, in honor cf the 
Sophomores, was reported and favor
ably acted upon, this will be the first 
of a long string, of activities for this 
semester.
The Freshman president appointed 
a permanent entertainment commit
tee, composed of Messrs Huff, Pennypacker, Feltyberger and Sodden. This 
committee will shortly meet and start 
plans for regular, get-together suppers, 
also1 for a picnic when the warmer 
weather comes to stay, and last, but 
not least, the class banquet.
One thing which was emphasized 
was the necessity of keeping the de
tails from reaching the keen ears of 
the Sophomores, thereby preventing 
destruction of the plans.
Remember, Freshmen, youre only a 
Plebe once in a lifetime, so lets re
member it.
Track practice every day at 4:30. 
Everybody outrain or shine. If its 
real track training you wantyou 
will get itIf its exerciseyou will 
get that too. Everybody out.
Track practice every day at 4:30. 
Everybody outrain or shine. If its 
real track training you" wantyou 
will get itIf its exerciseyou will 
get that too. Everybody out.
THE FOURTEENTH ANNUAL
HOME CONCERT 
MAY 9
It sometimes happens that welldeserved credit is given to the wrong 
party. A case of this sort came about 
last week when some of the Pitts
burgh daily papers commented upon 
the inauguration clean-up day at 
Tech. Like many other up-to-theminute movements this was started 
by M. M. C. C., and not by the persons 
of whom the papers tapoke so highly.
Let credit go where credit is due.
TODAY?
TINY the Cafeteria KingHAVE YOU ASKED HER YET 1

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 1919
No excuses will be accepted except oh account of illness.
After two warnings for unexcused absences the student will be referred 
to the Dean of his school for Faculty action.
EXEMPTIONSAny student who has been notified by the Department 
of Student Health to report daily at the Gymnasium for corrective work.
(Signed) FRANK Pi DAY,
Acting Dean, Division o Academic Studies.
Wht alaran
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Entered In the postofilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyRESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS
Tcrrencc AllsworthEditor-In-ChiefIt is proposed to start work in several R. O. TC. units at the beginning 
of the Spring Quarter, if a sufficient number of students signify their inten
tion of joining. The election of this work will be optional with Ihe student.
It was announced at the General Assembly on February 12, 1919, that the 
R. O. T. C. would not resume until the Autumn Quarter, but recent informa
tion from the War Department establishes the fact that some work must be 
done during the College year of 1918-19 in order to get credit for past mili
tary training. Students enrolling in the Corps for the Spring Quarter will 
thus gain a year or more towards commissions.
Three units will be offered, Engineering, Field Artillery and Signal Corps. 
Within a few days moving picture films and slides are to be exhibited, show
ing the work to be expected in each one of these three departments. Stu
dents will be given their choice to join any unit.
The Institute applied for, and has received the opportunity to offer, these 
three special technical units, because, first, ihey offer practical and theoreti
cal instruction in scientific branches that will be of benefit to the students in 
preparation for their future careers; second, they do not require the large 
amount of drill and manual of arms demanded by the Infantry Units.
Students enrolled during the Spring Quarter will be given credit for the
amount of military work accomplished in the R. O. T. C., S. A. T. C., and
past camps. Also they will be given credit for past academic work. This 
means that a large number of the present freshmen, sophomores and juniors 
will be eligible for recommendation for commissions in the Officers Reserve 
Corps upon graduation. These recommendations cannot be made if there is 
no military work this spring.
Also the juniors and sophomores who join the R. O. T. C. this spring 
will be eligible at the beginning of the Autumn Quarter to commutation of 
rations amounting to a little over 40c a day for the balance of their course at 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, including the summer vacation, and
the present freshmen will be eligible for this commutation of rations in
another year. The payment of this depends upon the action of the next 
Congress. Such a bill recognizing the past military and academic work was 
introduced into the last Congress, but failed on account of the filibuster. The 
bill will be re-introduced and. strongly urged by the War Department. De
partment officials feGl sanguine that it will pass.
- Also, by joining the R. O. T. C. now, students upon graduation will be 
eligible for recommendation to go into the Government positions at a good 
salary for three months after graduation. This work will afford further tech
nical training for a student just prior to entrance in his professional career. 
The acceptance of this opportunity will be optional.
The question of summer camps is still undecided. If summer camps are 
offered, there will be financial remuneration for attendance.
There will be a number of credits towards the Institute degree granted 
for R. 0. T. C. courses. The number will be announced later. Uniforms will 
be issued by the Government, the wearing of them being required at drill, 
and optional at other times.
Among the equipment of the Field Artillery will be furnished: 30 horses
and saddles; 4 Browning Machine Guns, L155 m.m. Howitzer; 1 American,
1 French, 1 British 75 m.m. Field Gun; 14.7 inch Field Gun; and a detach
ment of enlisted men to care for the guns and horses.
The Engineering equipment will consist of a sapper equipment, equip
ment for pontoon and trestle bridges, wire entanglement outfit, a light rail
way equipment, horses for riding, etc.
The Signal Corps will furnish radio, telephonic and electric outfits,'etc.
Students interested should visit the officers in the Military Department, 
Room 229 Industries Building, before April 14, 1919, for a personal interview.
(Signed) COL. .T. C. W. BROOKS, U. S. A.,
Commanding Officer, R. O. T. C.
Call for Photographs
A Book of Views illustrating the 
work of the Institute, as well as the 
student activities, is being prepared. 
Any students who have photographs 
of unusual interest are requested to 
submit them to the Secretary. It is 
desired that the material for the new 
book be in hand as early^as possible.
Thomas S. Baker
Secretary.
Phone, Hazel 9425.
Henry F. Schectz, Jr.Business Manager
Phone Schenley 9025
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C-, S. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaeffer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistant Business Manager 
John G. Keelan 
Advertising Manager 
W. F. Kelley 
Assistant Advertising Manager. 
Martin I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
II. G. Atchley
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editors.
F. I. Smith.
.T. R. Rudisill.
Assistant Editors.
A. C. May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. C. S...................Margaret Sondheim
Science ................................... K. K. Knaell
Industries ...............................II. W. Lynn
Design ...................................... G. T. Miller
Night...................................... Julius Foster
Athletic Editor 
W. J. Ravenscroft
TARTAN OFFICE................................7....
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
4.30 to 8:00 Thursdays.
Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag
ing Editor for the make up.
AU business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. 
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items ..,ust be in the student postofilce, Central Building, before 
noon On Saturdays.
IN THE NAME OF THE FALLEN SOLDIER
Six thousand civilians killed in Belgium during the Warl Seven thou
sand orphans now in Belgium! What American can appreciate the full 
meaning of these awful figures? What American but wants to help to his 
utmost and then more? You are an American. You have your chance to
day, in Tech, to help to your utmost the starving babies of Belgium, babies! 
in years, but old in sorrow. Let your dollars ra'ise a monument of pity! 
This is the only way to show your personal appreciation of the nobility 
and spiritual beauty of gallant, shell-torn, little Belgium. Will you refuse 
to show that appreciation? In the name of the brave Belgian fathers who 
lie in the bloody, ugly fields of Flandersugly fields but beautiful with their 
sacrificewill you refuse?
...................
GYM FOR JUNIORS AND SENIORS
The policy of the Tartan has been neutral. The ideas of various students 
have been so conflicting that it was difficult to arrive at aiiy definite deci
sion as to what the majority of the students want.
Some time ago the Tartan spoke in favor of some form of exercise, 
but did not say what that was to be. The Seniors and Juniors of Science
School have drawn up and signed a petition requesting the administration
to allow them to take gym work.
They realize that it would be next to impossible for all the students to 
take "gym," but certainly there are ample facilities for some to take it. 
Surely not every one will be denied the pleasure and benefits of gym work 
because there isnt room for all.
The Junior and Senior classes are small, their ranks being depleted by
the Grim Harvesterthe facultyand it seems reasonable that since they 
want gym and priority should go to the upper classes, that they should have 
It. One plan will surely be as practicable as the other for while the admin
istration of one is a little more difficult, it has the added advantage of being 
backed by students doing what they believe is best.
Why not gym for the Juniors and Seniors? There is plenty of room.
REGISTRATION FOR SPRING QUARTER
THE (NATIONALAll students of the Divisions listed below will report in Carnegie Union, 
Central Building, from 9 A. M. tp 10:30 A. M..on the dates given. The pay
ment of the quarterly fee of $25.00 is due at this time.
Students should be prepared to present the registration card issued at 
the beginning of the winter quarter. In case this card has been mislaid or 
lost a duplicate should be obtained at once at the office of the cashier, be
fore registration day.
Division of the ArtsMonday, April 7.
Division of Applied PsychologyMonday, April 7.
Division of Science and EngineeringMonday, April 14.
Margaret Morrison DivisionMonday, April 21.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
114 ATWOOD STREET 
Oaklands All-American Restaurant. The Home of Good Eats.
When feasting, fill not your mouth too full, ye cannot call for more!
Thursday.
fine.
The Admiral is. lookingMENS WEAR STORE I
IROQUOIS BLOCK OAKLAND |
Special This Week, Mens Hose, 25c a pair.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
The monthly alumni dinner was 
held at the house last Sunday.Wednesday, April 23, has been designated as the day for the next general 
assembly. School will be had as usual until 11:15 when all classes will be 
dismissed and the rest of the day turned over to the students. It will be a 
studenti meeting and nothing else.
Surely no better move could be taken by the ones In charge, than to give 
the students tills day to discuss the topics of common interest. It brings the 
schools closer together, and gives an opportunity for one school to learn 
what t/oer. on In another.
The students In Tech feel the lack of any possible chance to get acquaint
ed with PAGET other. These general assemblies furnish an opportunity! the 
students should take advantage of it and the Tartan expresses the sentiment 
of the students In thanking the Faculty and Administration.
OPHELEUM FRATERNITY
Loewy Holt officially announces 
that lie has contracted, a contagious 
case of vernal fickleness and indo
lence.
The fraternity announces the 
pledging of James William Batman, 
Lincoln T. Young and Richard W 
Arnold.ALPHA KAPPA PSI
The Alpha Tau honorary fraternity 
held its meeting' and smoker at the 
house on Thursday evening.
The annual initiation of the Kappa 
Chapter, Alpha Kappa Psi fraternity, 
was held Saturday, April 6, at the 
Hotel Schenley. Several charter 
members and Miss Catherine Kenne
dy of the Beta Chapter (founder of 
the Kappa Chapter at Design School, 
1911), were present.
Following initiation of new mem
bers:
Miss Betty Milligan 
Miss Virginia Stifel 
Miss Betty Register,
Miss Mary Frances Murdock.
Tea was served in the French 
room.
FACTS
Many of the brothers took advan
tage of the vacation between quarters 
(Saturday and Sunday), and ,took a 
little stroll home.
Tho day In twonly-l'our hours long.
Tlio Editor uro human beings and nothing more.
No throe people can get, out, a paper.
Many events are never mentioned In tho Tartan.
It would bo easy for any one to write them up, and drop them In the 
Post Office.
Tho biggest crabs are tho ones who do the least.
A few good reporters are needed.
The Tartan Is mailed every week to over a hundred High Schools and 
Colleges.
That you can render the school athletics an invaluable service by send-,
ing your Tartan to your High School.
That if you wrap it up and address it, and drop If in the box, the
Tartan will mail it for you. (Do not. stamp it.)
That the Tartan is being mailed weekly to High School students who
are known to be good athletes. > '
That the Tartan boosts Tech in every way at its disposal.
The Tartan solicits your help.
That it would like a few words from the Alumni.
That the Tartan finance accounts will be audited by the dean of men 
and published in June.
That the Tartan is the official publication of the Tech students.
HONORARY FRATERNITY
On Thursday evening, April 5,
Alpha Tau held a joint meeting of 
active and alumni members. Mr.
Christenson was added to the list 
of pledges.
---------- SIGMA RHO
It was decided to again grant the ----------
annual scholarship to the man holdLast week a letter was received
ing the highest record, in scholastic from Lyman Sherwood, 17. Sherstanding, activity and general perwood, is now at a lieuantant (j. q.) 
sonality, in the last years Freshman U. S. N., and is in charge^ of a 120 
class. | ton refrigerating plant on one of the
  Governments newest meat transports,
The date for the first initiation the polar Sea.
was set for April 26, the place as yet 1------
not decided upon. Captain Tom Orr, 17, who was
----------------------------president of the Science Senate, has
WOODLAWN CLUB been in a great deal of fighting in
---------- France. In all probability he will
L. W. Micols was. a guest at the soon be in Pittsburgh to greet the 
house last -Thursday evening. Mr. members of the active chapter.
Nicols graduated from Design in ---------------------------
1912. He was editor of the Thistle The next meeting of the Menorah
as well as The Tartan while: in Society will be held Friday, April 
school. 11, at Temple Rodef Shalom.
---------- The lecture by Dr. Goldenson, preMessrs. Dawson and Dorbritz of W. viously announced, but which had to'
& J. spent several days at the Frahe postponed because of a conflicting 
ternity House. These men are ediappointment, will be given at 'this 
tors of the W. & J. Year Book. meeting. A large turnout Is expected
---------------------------- to welcome our noted adviser.
ZETA LAMBDA EPSILON important announcements will be
  made at this meeting. A profitable
Lieutenant L. T. Barry and hir evening is assured. We count on 
brother unexpectedly dropped in last your coming.
Mondays, Thursdays, Saturdays 
Two Orchestras Two Dancing Floors
Continuous Dancing
Beginners Mondays and Thursdays
OPEN ALL SUMMEROfficial Announcements
April 5, 1919.
REGULATIONS CONCERNING PHYSICAL EDUCATION
All male day students carrying 15 scheduled hours or more work a. week 
are required' to report for physical education beginning April 15, 1919. 
TIME: S:35 every morning except Saturday.
DURATION OF WORK: From S:35 to S:50.
DRESSING: From 8:50 to 9:00.
During the first week, to enable better organization, students will report as follows:
All Freshmen .........................................................................April 15th, 8:35 A. M.
All Freshmen and Sophs.................................................April 16th, S:35 A. M.
All Freshmen, Sophs, Juniors and Seniors, April 17th, 8:35 A. M.
And every school day afterwards. 
. PLACE: Fair WeatherATHLETIC FIELD.
Inclement Weather
ScienceLangley Laboratory for Freshmen.
Hallsmain Science Buildii)g for Sophomores.
WOHARNTDH SY, IDATY,N RAL 9PATY,N1
Industries Halls of their Building.
DesignHalls of their Building,
Green flag flying from flag polo on Campus will mean fair weather and exercise on the Field.
Red (lag meaning inclement weather. Exercise to be taken as directed above.
Students will report for exorcise wearing a gymnasium shirt; no special 
trousers or shoes required.
To facilitate matters it is suggested that students living in tho Dormi
tories use their rooms for dressing and undressing.
That students living in Fraternity Houses up Forbes Street, or any stu
dent using the Woodlawn Street entrance undress in the Gymnasium. Lock
ers will be assigned without charge, a deposit of 50c to be refunded when 
key is returned, being charged when key is issued.
That the rest of the student body utilize the lockers in their respective schools.
All students must bo on the field at S:35 ready for work; lateness will 
he reported as absence.
Oakland Kitchen
116 OAKLAND AVENUE 
Cove Over and See Fred and Charlie.
Everything the Best. Prices Right. Try a meai and be convinced.
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY
Baseballs and Gloves Tennis Balls
3606 FORBES STREET
THE 1919 THISTLE
BE A ROOSTER AND A BUYER 
I--------BUT--------
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince Al
berts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEFEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEUE11111BE A CONTRIBUTOR

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 1919
orta SamplesPAG ETGWOH RNDWSWYDoc. Marks manages to keep a 
steady practice at the girls dorms. 
Perhaps the cases cant be cured with 
iodine and aspirin.OICEH"
HARROWu^or-m -cft
YOUUCA
Sis has a little lamp.
It is well trained, no doubt;
For every time that Windy comes, 
That darned little lamp goes out.
The girls adored the Bull Durham 
cords on their programs at the Soph 
hop.
A fool and a pen generally run 
amuck. Watch this column for proof.I
BELLEFIELD SHOE J 
REAIRING 1
FORBES STREET 3
Opposite Carnegie Library. j|j 
High class work done while you |f 
wait.  [a
I. SCHWARTZ |
LOW PRICES TO TECH [| 
STUDENTS E
Give us a trial.. fg
WILL BE HELD AT
CARNEGIE TECH
IN THE UNION
CENTRAL BUILDING
TOMORROW
The newest fancy models 
in the most stylish colors
Attend and bring your friends
^ 507 Market St.
JdlOwS 209-211 Smithfield StGood Clothes 932 Liberty Ave.
Two of Mellon Halls shining lights 
being, temporarily, under cloud for 
the next two weeks, on account of 
their playful nature, their friends are 
asked to remember that telephone 
calls are not forbidden them. Pitt 
Panther, please copy.
industry admits there are two or 
three good boys in ScienceDesign 
doesnt.
Where are you going to work next 
semester?The M. M. Editor says that there 
will be little or no news from there 
next week and the week following, 
except a list of the Hunkers!
A little ditty entitled, The Begining of the End.
Characters:  Prospective student 
and Senior.
Place:Campus of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Time:July 3, 1919; S:30 a. m. 
Left leg in air; right leg around 
neck; hands on hipsplace.
Pros. Student:Where doth that 
voice come from, Senior?
Senior:Ah, friend, that is the 
voice of one Second Lieutenant crying 
from the depths of Flagstaff Hill. 
Pros. Stude:It was ever thus. 
Senior; but he speaketh of legs, hands 
and hips. Surely 110 one could be try
ing to rob him of his qfficial adorn
ment?
Senior:No. Young Man About to 
Make a Mistake; you are a poor 
guesser. This officer is immune 
from robbery; he is a friend of the 
administration. The only ones being 
robbed around here are the students, 
and they are being robbed of their 
health. What you hear are the 
honeyed words of the Lieutenant (sec
ond grade) directing what will be ad
vertised in the catalog as Physical 
training, or P. T., but when translated 
into -American means Partial Tubercu
losis.
Ex-Prospective Student:  Thank 
you so much, brave Senior; you dont 
know how much this means to me. 
You have saved my young life and I 
can never repay you. But if you ever 
need a true friend, come over to Pitt 
and you will find me. But for the 
present, lets go to Oakland and shoot 
a sundae. 
Senior:Thanks, just the same, 
old man, but Ive put my application in 
to get a shower-bath at the gym this 
afternoon, and if 1 dont go this after
noon, I wont be able to get placed, 
again for a week. Wellso long.
.TEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESTEEEEETETa
| W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
I Forbes and Atwood Sts,
H Phones 1603160 Schenley
1 SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
Now that the editors of this column 
have won such a warm spot in the 
hearts of the readers, we feel that an 
apology is due the latter, for being 
forced to endure a substitute this is
sue.
Mr. Clark, of The Thistle, is desir
ous of knowing whether or not the 
student body wants a picture of the 
beanery lasses in this years annual. 
Some say because of his intimate ac
quaintance he would be able to get a 
regular one.!
 Students Welcome S
FRED SUDDABYS 1
CAFETERIA 
BUR'iAU OF MINES BLDG. m
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. g
Every school day.
Great Eats at [g
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH W
I FORBES AND CRAIG STS. jg
Fred Suddaby, Propr. g
After one look at The Tartan, Prof. 
Trinks said, You cant make an ed
itor out of a grease wiper.
Our self-appointed cheer leader i: 
(Im some) Stark, really did get i 
position without appointing himself 
chairman of the clean-up committee.
Speaking of caps and gowns for 
graduation, we would like to say of 
the question, that there are two sides, 
i. e., the right and Nuttals.
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty
Written guarantee with each 
machine. Victor and Fox 
agency.FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
Phone Court 866.
The Design School schedule for the 
last three weeks has been made of 
th~ee words: Nothing to do.
Wouldn't it relieve the strain on cer
tain eyes if the Naval officers marched 
around the M. M. C. S. court at noon?
Secret service men have solved the 
mystery of the slackening trade at the 
SkiboBert Munhall.
The committee assumed all re
sponsibility for having music at the 
Soph. Hop.
Reasons why Tech. spirit is dead 
DesignToo exclusive.
Tiul.Too jealous.
M. M. C. S.Too confined. 
ScienceToo egotistical.
Ira has threatened The Tartan with 
destruction if we dont quit trifling 
with his hobbies.1
mmk
MURADS are as different from
ordinal cigarettes as morning is from 
midnight. 
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes.
The trifling additional cost of Murads will 
bring bigger returns in Quality than any^investmentyou ever made. A
Because Murads are I j
I00'; PURE TURKISHTHE WORLD'S MOST 
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES.
Judge for 
yourself-!
3708 FORBES STREET {g
TRY OUR SPECIAL 35c 1
DINNER [|j
From 11 A. M. to 8 p. m. W.
Soup Meat Two Vegetables 3
Dessert Coffee and Tea g
Write to your high school and tell 
them about the big meet on the 31st 
of May. Urge them to come and 
then show them around.
The mouth is the grocers friend, 
the singers pride, and the lovers de
light.
Track practice every day at 4:30. 
Everybody outrain or shine. If its 
real track training you wantyou 
will get itIf its exerciseyou will 
get that too. Everybody out.
Why not dedicate the musical sec
tion of The Thistle to Mr. Giffin?CHURCHESThis week Scienve men find out 
what they aint.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stuoents.
Next year Industries graduates get 
their B. S. instead of the B. and O.
Smoking has been abolished in In
dustries. The next upward step will 
be to install a W. C. T. U. chapter.(Continued From Page One.) 
home.
June 5Pittsburgh Collegians, at 
home.
June 7Penn State, at Stat e College. 
June 14Penn State at State Col
lege.
June 21Alumni still pending.
Labor-Saving Devices.
Water is used to transport fine coal 
through pipes, and In Oregon a blast 
of air Is used to load hay In freight 
cars. The hay Is drawn up to a deck 
or iloat beside the car to be loaded, a 
crane then lifts the hay to this plat
form, and a blower, driven by a gaso
line engine, hurls the hay forcibly in
to the car, packing it better than can 
he done with old-fashioned hand fork.
This space will be devoted to the 
congratulation of the . school fathers 
upon the added atractiveness which 
they have given the campus. Yes, its 
our new library or the old Y. M. C. A. 
hut.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Thorpe, was suggested.
Write to your high school and tell 
them about the big meet on the 31st 
of May. Urge them to come and 
then show them around.
IN MEMORIAM 
Thomas Smith, S. A. 
Physics Department 
Industries
(Continued From Page One.) 
uate look back on your college years 
and saywhat can you say? The col
lege gave you a remarkable education, 
but what did you, during your four 
years, give the college? Did you join 
the college activities,and I don't 
mean its social activities. Did you live 
at your dorm with your nose in a book 
and forget that there was such a thing
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
Worth It.
Tommy (laid up from eating ton 
much dinner)I feel awfully sick 
ma, hut it was worth it."Bostoc
IMPOSSIBILITIES
Walking on sidewalk when M. M. C. 
S. girls are coming to school.
Reading The Tartan and under
standing it.
Dancing in holy sanctuary of Design 
without Starks permission.
Thinking about P. T. without curs
ing the idea.
Getting co-operation from the stu
dents in the publication of The 
Thistle.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
It has been whispered about that 
plans are on foot to start a red neck
tie society. A certain sharpshooter is 
back of the project. Willieyou 
chase me?
The Sixty Bucks you get from 
Uncle Sam will get 3rou a nice suit 
and top coat from
Due to the extensions of the new 
manager, the beanery is improving.
Any one desiring news from the Ski
bo, see Mr. Akins.
We believe that the Science men 
would be greatly aided, if Tiny  
placed some engineers scales with the 
hardware. They could be used for 
measuring the pieces of pie.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Services, 8:00 a. m., 11:00 
a. m. and 8:00 p. m.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:00, 
led by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Genuinely Welcome.
FULL
DRESS
SUITS
Young Fellows Clothing 
$25.00 TO $40.00 S 
Entire Second Floor 
FIFTH AVE. AND WOOD ST,
Open 
Evenings 
Monday 
Wednesday 
'x Saturday
There seems to be a doubt as to 
whether the Bolsheviki. editors are 
printing all the news they gleam from 
the Military Dept-,Valen tf lA* Uslicsl Calde TurhlsA und Cyorxttii n iht Urii

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 9. 1919
EEEEEEStEEEEEaEEEEEEEETTEEEEEEEEa
BellSchonloy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Formorly with .T. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANINGREPAIRING 
\otwc mul Mcun Clothe, Carpet, umiw| PortiereWork Cimruntood and Turned Out on Short Notice.I
 Will call for all preHfdiiK and cleaning 
at Frat PPAGGETEW
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
TEEEEEEEEEEEtEEEEETEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEETK
If TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
8 26 SIXTH STREET g
tmmmmtmjammmmmimmwmm!
M. M. GIRLS TO AID IN CAMPAIGN FOR THE 
CHILDREN OF BELGIUM
Individuality ha always been 
characteristic of Tech. Today 
(Wednesday) you are to have an op
portunity of showing yours by con 
trlbuting JO cents or more, if you 
have it, to each M. M. C. C. girl who 
pins a small flower on your coat. It's 
worth it; dont you think, boys?
The regular day for soliciting of 
money for the Belgian babies is this 
coming Saturday, April 12, but 
Techor Margaret Morrisonhas her 
own babies, she feels privileged in 
having her special day to collect for 
them.
Everyone in Tech is expected to 
buy a flower. These flowers are to 
be worn on Tech campus only, and 
you are not to keep ij. and wear it 
again on Saturday. The flowers 
might be of different colors, anyway. 
Besides helping the poor Belgian 
babies, you will win the everlasting 
gratitude of the M. M. girls, and what 
more do you want for a dime?
i cJhe largest selling 
quality pencil in. 
ihc wovld.
ENUS
PENCOS
17 black degrees 
and 3 copying
FREE
Trial samples of 
VENUS pencils sent 
free on request.
American Lead P'*y"il Co.
21l> Fifth Avo., Dcpi W27 '* Y
0/ all stationers ami stores tftroughoui ,ne. world.
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phones 578 and 9169 
Schenley P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Gooda Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
ra/mw
r
i
Mellon 
National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
Smitliiielcl Street, 
Fifth & Oliver Avenues
Capital------ $6,000,000
Surplus------$4,000,000
Resources Over 
$125,000,000
BARNES |
WALL PAPER 
Wholesale and Retail ;;
Books furnished Paperhangers 
and Dealers.
Picture Framing a Specialty j| 
S . 3618 FIFTH AVENUE 
At Atwood
SOPH HOP PROVES TO
BE GREAT SUCCESS
(Continued From Page One.) 
fine snappy music rendered by Benny 
Levants orchestra.
The committee in charge was C. T. 
McClean, chairman; Misses Dorothy 
Turkic and Mary Donley, I-i. W. 
Lynn, H. C. Hammann, A. J. Dreux 
and Ii. A. Hildebrand.
M. M. JUNIORS ASK MEN TO AID IN SEARCH
$300.00 IS TO BE USED
FOR STUDENT WORK
Methodist Centenary Movement Sets 
Aside Money for Local Work.
One of the largest projectsof the 
work to be done by the Centenary of 
the Methodist Episcopal Church is 
the work among students. The local 
work has begun in the establishment 
of the Oakland Community House, 
390-1 Forbes street.
Mr. William Price, president of the 
Diamond National Bank of Pittsburgh, 
one,of the leading financiers, of the 
city, is the executive chairman of 
the Centenary Movement of the 
Pittsburgh area.
Mr. Price will be the speaker and 
will deliver his already famous ad
dress entitled My Pardirer and I, 
at the Oakland. Mtiiodlst Episcopal 
Church' on Sunday morning, April 
13, at 10:46 p. m.
Mr. Price Is well known In the 
Pittsburgh District, and all who are 
Interested In what he has to say are 
urged to be present at the services i 
on April 13.
What man, group of men, fraternity 
or club Is willing to assist the Junior 
Class of M. M. C. S. in a scheme? 
Absolutely no fees, money to he so
licitedIn short, the word "money is 
out of place here. Sentiment, pure 
and simple, Is all that is asked to be 
considered. Call it romantic, if you 
like, but if something isnt soon done 
nothing hut "tragic will apply.
Did you know that the Sophomores 
of M. M. C. S. have been weeping for 
more than two weeks? And now the 
Juniors are about to take up the fad. 
Won't you men come to the rescue, 
before all Tech becomes a regular 
reservoir? Heres that rainy day 
some of you men have been watching 
for; and you need not go out Into the 
mud on the Cut this time to become a 
hero. For the man, or group of men, 
who returns the banner taken some 
weeks ago from the Union, the Sopho
more Class proposes towhy an
nounce the reward now? Do it to 
show your Tech spirit and then have 
the reward come as a surprise.
Really, it is rather serious when a 
group of girls cant leave a thing in 
the Union over night and then expect 
to get it next day. Of course, the girls 
realize the Union is the boys club 
room, but have you ever forgotten 
anything when attending a dance in 
the Recreation Hall -at Margaret Mor
rison? If you have, it was yours for 
the asking next day. Now, wont 
somebody have enough sense of jus
tice in them to see that this banner is 
returned 'to its rightful owner? There 
is no use saying we will do this or 
that. We cant. We are helpless 
without your assistance. So, if you 
can secure the banner or know where 
it reposes, wont you leave,your name 
and address, plus the banner or the 
desired information, of courseat the 
Central Post Office? Please dont be 
too modest to attach your name.* We 
can get the address, school, year and 
all the rest to put on the medal.
CHATEAU-THIERRV CHEERS AND HELMET FEATURE AT ASSEMBLY
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt; 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
3McUSMSMc!M3MSM2M3MSM3MSSM3M flGrant 3465
The Battle of Chateau-Thierry was 
vividly described to the M. M. C. C. 
girls in Assembly on Tuesday, April 1, 
when Rev. Dr. Marsh, representative 
of the Womans Council of1 National 
Defense, himself having been in 
France during the war, spoke for the 
Victory Loan. His picture of -the 
glorious battle was so thrilling and 
inspiring that it was followed by the 
most spontaneous applause J from all 
present.
The speaker said the Victory Loan 
should be over-subscribed from a 
purely business standpoint, because of 
the surer-than-ever position of Ameri
ca, and because of the 5 per cent, in
terest. He said it should be over
subscribed when we consider the men 
in France, and how much money is 
needed for thembut more than this, 
it should be over-subscribed because, 
though the material side of the war 
had been nobly won, there were moral 
and spiritual qualities as yet unwon; 
in other words, a great answer of 
American Democracy is now needed to 
combat Bolshevism.
After Dr. Marsh had spoken, the 
classes showed their patriotism by 
cheering for themselves and the Vic
tory Bonds. The faculty of the Sci
ence Department were assigned the 
difficult task of deciding which cheer 
was best. You will appreciate that it 
was well scientific men were chosen, 
when you learn that the coveted prize 
was a helmet, which hd once cover
ed the thick skull of a creature from 
the Rhine. This trophy was awarded 
the Freshmen, though the Junior 
Class received honorable mention. It 
may be sour grapes, but the Sophs are 
now wondering -what they can do 
with it now they have it, as its too 
hot to wear in summer, anyway.
AVO CLUB ELECTS FOR SPRING QUARTER
Write to your high school and toll 
them about the hi meet on the 31st 
of May. Urge them to come and 
then show them around.
I C. M. Stauft |
,j! 3702 FORBES STREET 
X Pittsburgh, Pa. X
j: STATIONERY AND k
NTBSCUA :j:
y. Phono 907(1 Schonloy X
Courteous and Prompt Service.
DEUC10USCAKES"
----------for----------
SOCIAL AFFAIRS
THE HALLER BAKERY
3010 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK
R. SIEDLE & SONS
Jewelers and Silversmiths 
518 WOOD STREET
Pittsburgh
Unbreakable Watch 
Crystals
Track practice every day at -1:30. 
Everybody outrain or shine, if its 
real track training you want you 
II got IIIf it's exerciseyou will 
got that too. Everybody out,
SCHDDL NOTES
March 2,S. Mellon Hall gave a dinicr In honor of the birthday of the 
haporon, Dr. Marlon Fay. Easter 
flowers and yellow candles were used 
to decorate the tables, and a huge 
birthday cake was used us a center
piece. Ice cream, frozen in the shape 
of lillles, was served as dessert, each 
girl getting a generous share of the 
cake.
Miss Helen Savard of the Senior 
class was hostess at a most enjoyable 
tea given on Thursday afternoon, 
A.pril 3. This was the first of the 
Arts and Crafts Department's Round 
Table teas. Mrs. Reddenbau, who was 
one of the first students in this de
partment, talked to the girls about 
the possible positions in their line of 
work.
Saturday afternoon the Junior 
Champion Basket Ball Team will en
tertain the Freshman team at the 
Davis Theater. Reymers will be the 
goal for both team's, after the thea
ter.
Tuesday afternoon the Costume 
Economics Department gave a tea In 
the faculty parlors for the faculty of 
M. M.
THEtJ. G. MARSHALL CO. Office Furniture
of Wood & Steel 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Standard Desks 
Macy Files and Bookcases 
B. L. Marble Chairs 
Eckai't's Steel Files and 
Furniture
{3iIJiD/i3/iIi/S//5/3Jl/3/IJin/i]JJQ/?i3/IS/S/S/S3/3J
The Avo Club held its meeting on 
Friday, April 4-, Room 208, Industries 
Building. The following officers 
were elected for the spring quarter: 
G. T. I-Iaeddens, president.
W. N. Clauser, vice president.
Ii. G. Culin, secretary.
B. Stalnaker, trearurer.
R. W. Guyton, publicity manager.
WHEN you buy a pipe bearing the 
W D C trade-mark, you have the 
satisfaction of knowing that your money 
could not have bought a better pipe. The 
W D C is strictly American made. You can 
choose among a multitude of styles, sizes and 
grades at the best shops$6 down to 75 cents.
WM. DEMUTH & CO., New York 
World's Largest Pipe Manufacturer
Look at tho lines of this one. They 
fiow, a delight to tho eye, from the rich 
brown of the genuine French Briar bowl, 
through the sterling sheen of the ring, to 
tho jet black lustre of the vulcanite bit
inmnnntmwmwiwfflmnttmiiwwtmtmtiiimiiiiiimffliimimiiimstts
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
Members of Federal Reserve Systerr 
THE OAKLAND BANK
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
R. T. LEWIS CO.
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS 
AND FRATERNITYPRINTING
Phipps Power Building
Bell Phone 4418 Court Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. Gr. MARSHALL 
COMPANY
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
INDUSTRIES BRANCH ON INSPECTION TOUR
On Wednesday, April 2, thirteen 
members of the department of Build' 
lug Construction secured passes to 
visit the Jones & Laughlin By-Product 
Coke Plant In Hazelwood. The studonts wore accompanied by Mr. Young 
and Mr. Miller. It, was through the 
courtesy of 11. Koppers Company that 
this Inspection tour was made pos
sible.
All I lie afternoon was spent viewing 
the site, which is being constructed 
by the big steel company. Much inter
est was displayed by all members of 
the -party at the magnitude and char
acter of the work which has been un
der way since May 1, lfllS.
Many new and valuable ideas were 
gained' by the students. It has been 
said that the B. C. Dept, will hold at 
least one inspection trip a week.
Optimistic Thought.
A true soldier never bends his sword 
to cruel slaughter.
BARROWS
Jazz Orchestra
Two to Five Pieces 
AL EPSTEIN. VIOLINIST 
of the Musical Nuts of New York. 
J. RALPH BARROW, PIANIST 
of the Washington Jazz Orchestra, 
Washington, D. C.
Phone Hazel 1997.
NIGHT SCHOOL CLUB. c. c.
Aprirl30th
You will find that 
Reymers Candies stand 
first with nine out of ten 
There surely 
a reason for
at nearly all 
| Drug Stores and at our 
!;!] own Retail Stores
237 Fifth Avenue
437 Fifth Avenue [jj 
6018 Penn Avenue |
I;! GET YOUR HAIR CUT *Y
----------at the-r--------1IEGH BARBER SHOP INEAREST TO TECH
* Cor. Craig and Forbes ?
 FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.  
y Nearest ^nd Best Laundry 
X Agency.
Marguerite Spilman, graduate of 
Margaret Morrison, class 1915, organ
ized under the Western Pennsylva
nia League for Women Workers a 
Night School Club for Working Girls. 
The first meeting, which had an at
tendance. of 100 girls, was held in the 
Assembly Hall at M. M. C. C. After 
the girls had been addressed by Dean 
Breed and Miss Spilman, they regis
tered In the following night classes: 
Physical Training, Cooking, Millinery 
and Current; Events. They then went 
to the Recreation Hall, where they 
played games and danced, and where 
punch and calces were served.
Miss Margaret Worth was assistant 
to Miss Spilman. It has also been 
planned to have Miss Spilman act as 
head of the farm at Camp Louise Car
negie, this summer.
iiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiigiiiiiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiu
BATTERY
SERVICE
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 SEVENTH AVE.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
M. M. JUNIORS WIN OVER FRESHMEN
LARGEST SELECTION OF
Musical Instruments
IN THE STATE
Every necessary instrument 
Brass or Stringfor Bands and 
Orchestras.
New and Slightly Used Instru
ments at specially low prices.
Strings and Supplies of all kinds.
GALLINGERS
929 LIBERTY AVENUE
Established 65 Years
It is getting to be a habit witl 
the .Junior Girls at Margaret Morri
son to carry off athletic honors. 
Never before, however, has the chain 
pionship been so hotly contested, 
nor the spirit of rivalry so keen 
Sister classes, the Juniors and Fresh 
man, have stood together all year, 
the basket ball game being the only 
point in difference of opinion. So 
great has become the interest 
athletics in the womans school that 
on the fatal day, April 1, the gymna
sium was crowdedyes positively 
crowded with students and faculty 
to witness the struggle. It was a 
great game. It was, in fact,, the best 
game of basket ball played in Mar
garet Morrison for years.
- Good team work was exhibited by 
both teams, the freshmen forwards 
having unusual speedi and clever 
passing. As side center for the Jun
iors, Miss OConnor played an excep
tionally good game. Miss Batchelor, 
Junior forward, as well as Captain 
Endres, Junior guard, did especially 
good work. in fact, everyone on 
both teams played such a good game 
that individual starring can hardly 
be cited with fairness. After the 
game, the score giving the Juniors 
the championship pennant for the 
second time, the teams were given a 
most delectable spread* by Prof. I-Iainer, an athletic enthusiast and a fa
vorite of the Freshmen, and tlt< 
Juniors paraded, cheering wildly, 
through the building. Lineup:
Junio rs 32. F r eslim en14.
M. Batchelor............F..................I. Winner
M. Bechtel..............F.....................H. Reed
H. Stone...................C..................H. Weedy
A. OConnor___S. C...............M. Smith
B. Endres (C.)....G....J. Aiken (C.)
I. Friedman..............G.................H. Wilcox
SubstitutionsJacobson, for Wil
cox.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY ...........PENN Si FBAISTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearif he is 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair. Special Mens Dept.
BOWLING S BILLIARDS
OAKLAND 
JOSEPH H. KENNY
Strand Building------------Forbes and Boquet Streets
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
BEGINNERS CLASSES MONDAY AND FRIDAY 
Advanced Class Wednesday and Friday.
^
