* G A R N E G IE
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 58  NUMBER 17WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1964
Hayes Delivers 
* First Lecture 
In New Series
The next assembly on Tuesday 
opens a series sponsored by the 
Department of English on Wil
liam Shakespeares Poems and 
Plays, which will commemorate 
the four - hundredth anniversary 
of the writer's birth and the 
fiftieth anniversary of the Drama 
Department of Carnegie Tech.
The first lecture will be given 
by Ann L. Hayes, an Assistant 
Professor of English at Tech. She 
received her B.A. and M.A. from 
Stanford University and is pres
ently a faculty advisor for Cwens.
Her topic at the first assembly 
will be Shakespeares sonnets. 
Last year, Professor Hayes spoke 
eloquently oh Othello," the 
Drama Departments Shakespeare 
production of last season.
The following five lectures, 
given by other members of the 
English Department, concern 
Shakespeares Histories, Roman
tic Comedies, Dark Comedies, 
Tragedies, and the Drama Depart
ments up-coming production of 
Julius Caesar.
Fs Open Scuba 
Classes to Last 
Eight Weeks
The Campus YMCA and YWCA 
will again provide competent in
struction in SCUBA (Self - Con
tained - Underwater - Breathing - 
Apparatus) by experienced Scub3 
divers, supervised by a Certified 
Scuba Instructor. The course pro
vides an opportunity for Tech 
students and faculty interested 
in water.sports to join the ranks 
a, of other Tech scuba enthusiasts.
Students will provide their own 
| mask, snorkel and fins. Aqua 
lungs will be provided.
| Because the course will be limj ited to 15, those interested should 
1 register by March 17* The eight 
j sessions will meet on Monday evej nings from 7:00-10:00 p.m.' in the
) Tech Pool. The first session be] gins March 23 and extends to May
I 18. (There will be no session
J March 30 due to Easter recess.)
The cost for Y members is $12.00 
and for non - members $15.00. 
Registrations are now being taken 
in the Y Office, Room 57, Skibo.
 Photo toy Jim Pawley
Friday Audition Last Chance 
To Join Cast of Scotch n Soda
This week is the last opportunity {or aspiring thcspians 
to join the cast of Scotch n Sode. One audition will be held 
Friday, February 21, from 3:30 to 7:30 p.m.; and the final 
audition will be on Saturday, February 22, from 1:00 to 5:00 
p.m. Any interested student who absolutely cannot audition 
on either day is asked to contact Ken Johnson or Regina Ress.
Tech Presents 
Chamber Music
."j The fifth concert in Carnegie 
Techs 1963-1964 Carnegie Con
cert Series will feature a pFOgram 
of Eighteenth Century Chamber 
Musiu to be presented on Wed
nesday, February 19, at 8:30 p.m. 
n Carnegie Lecture Hall.
The concert is being held in 
cooperation with Wilkes College. 
Tha performers are Laila Storch, 
oboe; Martin Friedmann, violin; 
^and Kurt Safflr, harpsichord.
Ski Club Adds 
Sunday Jaunt
The Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Conference of Ski Clubs will run 
a weekly ski bus on Sunday to 
Laurel Mountains in addition to 
its weekly Saturday ski bus to 
Seven Springs.
The fees and times are as fol
lows:
Saturday bus to Seven Springs 
leaves at 7:45 a.m. on the Forbes 
Street side of Skibo Hall. Costs 
are $13.00 with ski equipment 
rental and $8.50 without.
-Sunday bus to Laurel Moun
tains leaves at 7:30 a.m. from 
Skibo. Costs are the same as 
Seven Springs.
For information or reservation 
contact Richard Accetta 561-4719 
or Tony Williams at 683-5496 be
fore Friday noon.
Britain Seeks 
War Revenge 
With Beatles
Britain is getting revenge for 
the Revolutionary War! What 
King George couldnt accomplish 
with he Redcoats is being ac
complished' by four shaggy youths 
called the Beatles  America has 
been conquered!
The height of this mania was 
reached Saturday night at the 
Delta Upsilon fraternity house 
when The Beatools brought 
down the house, figuratively. Two 
(continued on page 2)
Summer Jobs 
For Students 
Increase 10%
There is an inrease of approxi
mately 10% in summer jobs 
throughout the United States 
available to students and teachers 
in 1964 over, last year, according 
to Mrs. Mynena Leith, Editor of 
the Summer Employment Direc
tory. The greatest increase is 
found in summer camps (partic
ularly camps for exceptional chil
dren), summer theaters, and re
sorts in th New England and 
North-Central states.
A limited number of jobs are 
open at the New York .World's 
Fair (students who want to go to 
The Fair can obtain a job in the 
eastern states within day's off" 
distance of New York). Some 
camps plan a trip to The Fair as 
a part of their planned program 
of activities.
The 1964 Summer Employment 
Directory lists 35,000 specific 
summer job opportunities all over 
the country, names and addresses 
of the employers which offer 
them, salaries, and a sample let
ter of application and personal 
data sheets to assist in making 
application. Employers are listed 
at their request and they invite 
application from college students.
Students who would like to ob
tain an individual copy can do so 
by asking for the Summer em
ployment Directory at the book
store or by ordering through the 
National Directory Service, Box 
32065, Dept. C, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
45232. The cost is $3, a special1 
college student price* .
Dorm Rents Upped $30; 
Effective in Fall 1964
by Sharon Shuttleworth
Last Wednesday, February 12, Dr. George Brown, Dean 
of Student Affairs, announced that the Executive Board of 
Carnegie Tech had approved a room rental increase of $30.00 
per year ($15.00 per. semester) for all student accommoda
tions in the undergraduate dormitories (excluding fraternity
dormitories) and the Mudgc?~-------------- ' '
Graduate House. These rate in
creases will be effective for Sep
tember 1964.
Dean Brown explains the rental 
increase a follows: Dormitory 
income is not keeping up. with 
operating expenses , and amortiza
tion of mortgages. For example, in 
Morewood Gardens, for the pres
ent year, a deficit of $6,383 is ex
pected. For the next year (1964- 
65), an additional $10,000 in 
amortization must be added to ex
penses so that, under . present 
room rental rates, a deficit of 
$19,589 would occur.
In the mens dormitories (ex
clusive of the fraternity dormi
tories, wherein a room rental in
crease of $40.00. per year was 
made effective in September,
1963) a deficit of $14,090 .is ex
pected this year. The $30.00 in
crease for 1964-65 is expected to 
decrease this, deficit to $2,099. .
Tech's policy regarding auxil
iary services is to attain a noprofit-no-loss position. Thus, the; 
administration has approved the I 
moderate $30.00 rental increase. I
Over the past fifteen years colI 
lege costs have been rising fast, 
although it has only been in the 
last few. years that these costs 
have risen faster than per capita 
income. On the average, there has 
been a room and board increase 
tuition increase every two 
years in private colleges. This 
trend is expected to continue for
Film Arts Runs 
Breathless
Last week, the Film Arts So
ciety opened its new Spring Ser
ies with, the outstanding musical, 
An American In Paris. The sec
ond offering in the new series 
will be the New Wave French 
film, Breathless."
I was out to attract attention" 
said the young director, Jean Luc 
Godard. Significantly, he has at
tracted the most attention from 
the world film critics who have 
given Breathless many. awards, 
including the Best Director Award 
at the Berlin Film Festival. 
Breathless is an unusual, so
phisticated, and certainly daring 
motion picture.
Other films to be seen in Film 
Arts Spring Series include What 
Price Glory, James Cagney in 
The Public Enemy, A Mid
summer  Nights Dream, Alfred 
Hitchcocks rarely seen Sabo
tage, Jean Cocteaus Beauty 
and the Beast, George Stevens* 
classic, A Place in the Sun, and 
seven other films drawn from the 
worlds library of cinematic mas
terpieces.
A limited number of season 
tickets are still available and can 
be purchased at the door this 
week. Showings, are Thursdays in 
Porter Hall 100 at 4:30, 7:00, and 
9:30 p.m. Admittance is by sea
son ticket only; no single admis
sions are ever sold. The price of 
a season-ticket is. $3.00.
some time in the future. Some 
educators, predict that tuition 
alone in the prestige private col
leges will be near $2500 by 1970.
At the present time, costs at 
Carnegie remain about average 
for room and board, and low for 
tuition. The following data is 
largely from Basic Educational 
Charges at College, published by 
the Department of Health, Edu
cation, and Welfare:
I. Room, and Board Charges for Undergraduates at Comparable Cplleges A. Women -(median charge for room and board*, 1902-631 :Carnegie Tech (1064-65)  $900
University of Rochester Cornell  $1065 Syracuse  $027Univ. of Pittsburgh (1003-64)  $900 Go.uchcr  $1250 Brown  $970
 Usually includes double room and 21 meals per week;
B. Men (median charge for room onjy, 1863,64) : 'Carnegie Tech'(1964-65)  $410
Lehigh  $360 Harvard  $510 
.University of Rochester  $370 Syracuse  $407 M. I. T.  $370 Brown  $400 University of Chicago
$1800 R. P. I.  $1800 ' University, of Rochester  $1800
M. I. T. (1963-64)$1700Lehigh  $1600 Case  $1600 Radcliff  $1760 ChaUiain  $1600 Cornell (1963-64)  $1600 
T"* * ~ .
6 Fraternities 
Elect Officers
Six of the twelve social frater
nities on campus have elected offi
cers, who will serve from the sec
ond semester of this school year 
through the first semester of the 
next school year. The other six 
fraternities will elect officers in; 
the spring. The newly-elected offi-: 
cers are: ^
Alpha Tan Omega: Worthy
Master, Joe Hartman; Worthy 
Chaplain, Jim Lawler; Worthy
Keeper of the Exchequer, Bob 
Roberts; Worthy Keeper of An
nals, Allen Green; Worthy Scribe, 
Joe Pagliaro; Worthy USher, Ron 
Robinson; Worthy Sentinel, Tom Kline.
Beta Sigma Rho: Chancellor.
Butch Davis; Vice-Chancellor,
Arthur Stern; Warden, Richard 
Mitchell; Comptroller, David Rob
inson; Auditor, Steve Zimmer
man; Recorder, Murray Eisenberg; CFP representative, Steve 
Zimmerman; Executive Council 
Reps., Richard Hochauser, Steve 
Kessler, (alternate) Murray 
Eisenberg.
Pbi Kappa Theta: President 
James Bryan; Vice-President 
Gary Lindstrom; Treasurer, Jo
seph Lusardi; Secretary, Wallace 
Block; Social Chairman, William 
Bail; House Manager, Robert 
(continued on page S)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 19. 1964
frtC Book Supplement
Alpha Phi Omego needs correct addresses, phone num
bers, and departments for the 1963-64 student directory 
supplement which will be published in a few weeks. Those 
studenits who have changed residence, or changed' depart
ments, or even changed names, are urged to send the new 
information to C-Bo6k, Box 282, Campus Mail before Feb
ruary 28, 1964. Include the following information:
: NAME ......................................................... DEPT. ..
I ADDRESS
: PHONE NO. ..... YEAR ..................
Tech Debaters 
Begin Season
Tech debaters began their busiesct tournament schedule in his
tory last week with the Columbia 
International Debate Tournament, 
leprestnted by Mike Gross and 
Tom Miller.
Future engagaments include:
Carnegie Tech Tartan Tourna
ment, February 21-22;
City College of New York Tour
nament, March 6-7;
District 7 Elimination for En
trance into Nationals, March 13- 
14 University of Pennsylvania;
Pennsylvania State Tournament, 
Later in March..
All students interested in par
ticipating in or observing debates 
are wclcome to attend the Car
negie Tech Tartan Tournament, 
February 21-22, on campus.
Britain Seeks 
War Revenge 
(continued from page 1) 
hundred students crammed the 
DU basement to see and hear a 
take-off on the current singing 
idols from the British Isles. Com
plete with stage, no-lapel jack
ets, and shaggy haircuts, the 
Beatools held the audience en
tranced for half an hour with 
I Want to Hold Your Hand* 
"She Loves You, and a number 
of other songs.
The Bealools also made their 
first all - Pittsburgh appearance 
Saturday night on Channel 4, 
WTAE-TV. A camera crew from 
the television station had made a 
tape during the afternoon, and 
it was broadcast on the 11:00 
news that night.
In real life, the Beatools are 
Dave Sawchak, a sophomore ID, 
John Greenhalgh, a junior EE, 
and Vern Leicht and Gary Leach, 
both sophomore Chem Es.
ProgramOffers 
Study in Israel
The Baskind Memorial Founda
tion has announced the availabil
ity of scholarship aid for local 
students from the Pittsburgh uni
versities for a years study at the 
Hebrew University in Israel.
The American Student program 
for a year of study at the Hebrew 
University was established in 
1953. Since its inception, this ex
change student program has at
tracted hundreds of students from 
American universities. The Amer
ican student program is' particu 
larly suited for students from 
abroad who wish to concentrate 
on the general field of the Hu 
manities and Sciences. The pro 
gram is flexible, allowing for. con 
siderable variation of interest to 
be pursued at the Hebrew Uni 
versity, but unified through 
planned and purposeful academic 
activity. The program encom
passes a concentrated period of 
study of the Hebrew language and 
extensive field trips and tours of 
the State of Israel.
Students interested in the 
American Student Program at the 
Hebrew University may apply 
for Scholarship aid to the Baskind 
Memorial Foundation, 302 Jones 
Law Building Annex, Pittsburgh 
19, Penna.
Strand
683-6992
 NOW SHOWING  
Elizabeth Taylor 
'Richard Burton
VOLOVUME5E85
U.S. Steel, GSI 
Begin Research
The United States Steel Cor
poration and the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration at 
Carnegie Tech have entered into 
a one - year research agreement 
under a $10,000 grant from United 
States Steel.
The contract involves a study 
(continued on page 8)
BULLETINBOARD
Meetings
Pennsylvania Society of Profes
sional Engineers, Wherrett Room, 
February 20, 8' p.m.
Physical Group of the American 
Chemical Society, Porter Hall 100, 
February 24, 8 to 10 p.m.
Panel of Amerieans
The Panel of Americans will 
meet this Thursday, February 20, 
at 4:30 p.m., in Room 54, Skibo. 
Anyone interested in learning 
more about this organization may 
attend the meeting.
Watch for signs on campus to 
announce subsequent meetings and 
further information.
Judo
Judo is both an art and a sport. 
Interesting and useful, it is the 
scientific method of turning an 
opponent's strength against him
self, and is equally applicable in 
defense or offense.
Judo fosters mental alertness 
and physical well-being.
The Tech Judo Club has an
nounced that regular practice ses
sions will begin this semester with 
meetings every Saturday at 1:30 
p.m. in the gymnasium, Thistle 
Hall.
All are welcome to learn the 
gentle art of Judo.
Europe Flights
There are three, yes, three 
money-saving flights to Europe 
this year lor students from Car-- 
negic Tech.
There is a flight giving you ten 
weeks in Europe (leaving on June 
11), one giving you thirteen weeks 
in Europe (also leaving on June 
11), and one for three weeks 
(leaving on July 14). The roundtrip jet fare is only $325.00, so 
you can save nearly $200.00 by 
flying with the club even with the 
new fare structures!
1 The club is also aranging some 
inexpensive tours in Europe in
cluding one to Russia for those, 
who desire it.
The final date for receipt of ap
plications and deposits from flight 
members is March 14, 1964.
If you . have any questions, 
please dont hesitate to call your 
friendly flight organizers: Dick 
Niehaus (682-8492), Tom Steffen 
(441-5449), and Harry Norris 
(682-8548). You may also write 
to: International Club Europe
Flight,; Box 235, Carnegie Tech.
A Phone Call Can Make 
You A Star Reporter
Can you sense a potential news 
story? Are you willing to find out 
who, what, where, when, why, 
and how  the basics?
Thats all the information that 
is needed to make a front page 
lead story with YOUR name as the 
writer.
TARTAN has a staff of specially 
trained writers to turn details of 
a news item into a readable story. 
Anyone who has the interest en
ough to dig up these basic six de
tails, will be given appropriate by
line credit.
Phone in details to Dale Chodorow, News Editor, at 683-0661 or 
682-4557, and the re-write staff 
will do the rest.
Tarquans
Tarquans, Tech's synchronized 
swimming club is now in prepara
tion for Us annual spring -water 
show under, the supervision of 
Mi jane Fisk. All interested stu
dents, male and female, who have 
some swimming ability are invited 
to attend practices on Tuesdays 
from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Tech pooL 
No previous experience in syn
chronized swimming is required.
Hillel Plans
From Friday to Sunday, March 
7-9, the joint Hillel Groups of 
Pittsburgh .will sponsor a TriState Institute at Carnegie Tech. 
Attending will be students from 
Penn State, Western Reserve 
Case Tech, West Virginia, Pitt, 
Tech, Chatham, and Duquesne. 
The theme will be The Mind of 
the Jewish College Student." 
There will be a banquet, a folk 
concert featuring T h e Coach
men Three, a dance, plus many 
stimulating discussion groups and 
speakers. For those interested in 
attending, call' the Hillel Office 
at the YMHA, 621-8876.
New Doors For AH
Because of the daily congestion 
at the entrance to Administration 
Hall, some ambitious students 
have drafted a proposal for the 
administration to have the heavy, 
narrow, brass doors replaced by a 
revolving door. Interested students 
may attend a meeting in Room 35 
Skibo,. at 4:30 p.m., on Wednesday, 
February 19. With a revolving 
door, traffic will. be increased 
from two or three at a time (as 
is the case now), to one at a time.
Classified ds
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk Guitar -Fred Albitz  Featured at the Ca'sbah and many other Pittsburgh spots  .and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons
PANAVISION* and METROCOLOffV 
 ALSO 
Shirley Jones
"A TICKLISH 
AFFAIR"
OAKLAND ONLY THEATRE
Opening Saturday Feb. 29th
Broadway Musical Splash ! 
All Tickets $2.00"Wish You
Were Here'
HAMLET ST. THEATER
CALCULATED RISK
Intrigue and Betrayal 
.in the world of finance
Seats $1.50 Sat. $2.00 TueS.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445
pwiuoUin
(i: /liberto Sordi.Tolsd-*
ititfbBttT
A GEM OF A FILM'
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo. 421 '2083. Evenings.
I room Kiicnen; oeaiwin-uving Hot water heat. Uitlilies. Adults. || >a availaVil/ .171-174.
Spacious deluxe duplex, '/a block irom school and bus. S rooms, front porch, garage and paneled game-room. $135/mon Call evenings 362-1040.
Gentleman  room for
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Want to use a wide range of your engineering skills? The 
Zinc Smelting Division of the 
St. Joseph Lead Company needs 
a wide-awake 64 graduating 
mechanical engineers for tech
nical trouble-shooting on plant 
equipment. Excellent opportun
ities. Complete job description 
available in the placement of
fice.Representative on campus 
March 6. Make reservations in 
the placement office now for 
campus interview.
They come 
at you with i 
terrifying power, he. ( 
with the sinuousness 
of a serpent, she. 
with the eerie force* 
of a corrupted child. 
Ha shocking power.'
Crowther,, N.Y. Times
flen arts  thursday  porter hall 100  4:30 - 7 - 9:30

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 19, 1964  CARNGI TARTAN  Pe S
s Shakespearean productions have been a must at Carnegie 
I Tech since it first offered an academic degree in drama in 
I 1914.J The fiftieth anniversary presentation this March will be 
| the immortal Julius Caesar. Professor Henry Boettchner, 
| who has gained a reputation for*' 
l^uccessfully staging. Shakespear1 
^an productions, will again han^ die Ihe directing chores.
? Professor Boettcher has directed 
Shakespearean plays at Tech with
al innovations to his credit. 
He produced A Comedy of Er
rors on a revolving stage; 14 
years ago he produced A Mid
summer Nights Dream/ magic
ally . beautiful, with puppets! 
When the students trust the di
rector; when they fit their parts; 
^iivhen they react to each other; 
1 when everyone goes  thats when 
I enjoy' a play. So speaks Professor Boettcher.
| Techs other Shakespearean ex| pert has been B. Iden Payne> visiting faculty member. and for 
Yi many 'years a guest director.
Payne preferred Elizabethan stag| ing, Boettcher has leaned to the 
proscenium production. Both have 
| achieved resulfs of continuing deaplight and excitement; Boettcher, 
| who once headed the department, 
resigned his administrative duties 
* to devote more time to teaching 
and directing.
The Department of Drama is 
now headed by Robert W. Corri
gan, the first regular appointment 
to hold a Ph.D. in some years, 
j Drama department enrollment is 
^ limited to 200 students, who are 
& admitted only after they have 
^Remonstrated a talent in a par% ticular phase of the theater at 
| privately held auditions..
1 Last year, Tech called on Minos 
| Colanakis, a Greek director, and 
:.$ his compatriot, Zouzou Nicoloudij 
v| a choreographer to stage EuripJ ides the Bacchae. New York 
critics acclaimed the production
Howard Taubman of the Times 
said: The virtue of the Carnegie 
'S production is that it captures the 
^quality of total theater inherent 
$ in the Greek classics.
Among the more illustrious al
umni of the department are 
Arthur Kennedy, George Peppard, 
Bob Finkel, Ken Welch, Jack 
Klugman and Alex Segal. Some 
alumni who have made their mark 
in the theater return to the cam
pus as lecturers and guest direc
tors. Howard Bay, scenic designer
for more than 150 top rated 
Broadway productions, returned 
last fall to direct Strindbergs 
Crimes and Crimes. Producer 
Harold Clwrman is often a visit
ing lecturer. Others who have vis
ited. the drama department arc 
Rod Sterling and Elia Kazan.
Ford Sponsors 
GSIA Seminar
A seminar for quantitative re
search on management problems 
will be held for faculty members 
of college business schools at Car
negie Tech from August 3 to Aug
ust 28.
Three workshops will be conducted by members of the jraciuate School of Industrial Admin
istration and a member of the 
Purdue University faculty under 
sponsorship of the Ford Founda
tion.
The program is designed to pro
vide an opportunity for about 25 
teachers in various fields of man
agement to work together in small 
groups to plan, organize and carry 
out research on problems of com
mon interest.
Seminar participants will take 
part in individual or group re
search projects as members of one 
of three workshops: (1) research 
in consumer behavior and mar
keting strategy; (2) experimental 
economics; and (3) research prob
lems in corporate planning.
The sessions will be held in the 
modern air conditioned class
rooms of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration. Among 
the research facilities which will 
be available to the teachers will 
be a large, high-speed digital 
computer, a behavioral science 
laboratory and a library.
Each workshop will organize its 
own schedule of formal m6elings. 
With the exception of a few gen
eral sessions, the balance o the 
time will be free for individual 
research. Participants will be able 
to attend sessions held by any of 
the three workshop groups.
TRAINEES FOR
INDUSTRIAL SALES & MARKETING MANAGEMENT 
TECHNICAL SALES/SERVICE
ENGINEERS...
Ceramic  Chemical  Civil  Electrical 
Industrial  Mechanical  Metallurgical
MAJORS IN...
Chemistry  Economics  Physics 
Business Administration (Marketing)
Americas leading manufacturer of carbon and graph
ite products offers positions to qualified bachelors and 
masters in the fields listed above.
Our products includc graphite anodes, electrodes, 
motor and generator brushes, arc carbons and special 
graphite shapes used in nuclear, missile, and a wide 
variety of industrial applications.
We serve such key industries as aerospace, alumi
num, automotive, chemical, mining, motion pictures, 
nuclear, steel, transportation, and the electrical manu
facturers.
Positions are available in our Marketing organiza
tion which covers the 50 states from seven key cities.
A representative will be on campus:
MARCH 4 
UNION CARBIDE CORPORATION
CARBON PRODUCTS DIVISION
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
West Virginia Caves Attract 
Carnegie Tech Explorers Club
During semester break, mem
bers of the Tech Explorers Club 
enjoyed cave exploring, rock 
climbing, and hiking in the moun
tains of West Virginia. Approxi
mately fifteen, members of the 
group participated in various 
phases of these activities.'
Action centered around two 
prinicpal areas. One of these, 
Germany Valley, is 160 miles due 
south of Pittsburgh. The other, 
the big cave country of West 
Virginia, is 100 miles farther 
southwest, in the vicinity of 
Lewisburg. In Germany Valley, 
highlights of the trip included 
famous Schoolhouse Cave, with 
its many deep pits and rugged 
walls requiring extensive moun
taineering technique, and Elkhorn Mountain . Cave, featuring 
some of the most beautiful forma
tions of any cave in the area 
and also boasting a sinkhole en
trance that drops straight down 
from the surface 135 feet.
Also in Germany Valley,. sev
eral members of the group 
climbed Seneca Hocks, one of the 
finest rock-climbing areas in the 
East, and hiked along the ridge 
crest of North Fork Mountain,; 
averaging 3,500 feet in elevation 
and overlooking the two forks of 
the South Branch of the Poto
mac River.
In the Lewisburg area were 
found Greenville Saltpetre Cave, 
containing many remnants of 
Civil War saltpetre mining ac
tivity, and Laurel Creek Cave 
with its huge subway tunneltype passages. One of these con
tains a small highway bridge, 
washed in during a flood.
The Tech Explorers Club in
vites all interested Tech students
Tech Explorers "spelunking" in near by cave
and faculty members to join in 
its activities* A full schedule of 
activities is planned for the Spring 
semester; these* include Sunday 
climbing, hiking, and caving trips 
to the Chestnut Ridge area of 
western Pennsylvania, weekend 
climbing and caving trips in West 
Virginia, and a four-day canoe trip 
during Easter vacation.
Of particular interest tonew
comers will be a series of trips 
especially for beginners. The first 
two of these are scheduled for 
the two coming Sundays, Feb
ruary 16 and 23. For each trip,
the group will meet in Skibo 
cafeteria at 8:30 a.m. Everyone 
is asked to wear old clothes, in 
quantity to suit the climate. New
comers will have an opportunity 
to learn basic climbing and cav
ing techniques from experienced 
members of the club. For further 
information about these andl other 
club activities, interested students 
may contact Alex Nesgoda, Roger 
Patterson or Dr. Hugh Young.
The Explorers* Club is also 
planning a public show featuring 
movies and slides illustrating the 
clubs activities.
Career opportunities 
for Mechanical and 
Electrical Engineers
For Seniors and Recent Graduates In
CARNEGI NSTUOFH ASTSLAGY & NS$S9RC0SFI 
TIL22 1 LCC9UGLIURF 4 TSA$UGS SFOUFSSAUFO 
0LFE2LGIEAUFO SFOUFSSAUFO 
ISGYFUGL9 TL9ST
Campus Interviews:
March 2nd
Appointments should be made in advance 
through your College Placement Office
WABCD
WESTINGH0USE AIR BRAKE DIVISION
WILMERDING, PA./Westinghouse Air Brake Company
World leader in the design and manufacture of 
air brake equipment and accessories for railroads, 
subways, and other rapid transit systems.

---------------------------------------------------

Pse 4  CABNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 19, 1964
Editorial
A New Directive to Fraternities
For over a year, the fraternities on the 
Carnegie Tech campus have Bartered with 
the administration to agree on an acceptable 
program of financial responsibility to the 
school. Membership in some fraternities has 
decreased below the break-even point of dor
mitory operation. Now, the administration, 
after several discussions with the fraterni
ties, has handed a proposal to the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents for their considera
tion. That the proposal contains harsh de
mands on the financial operation of the 
fraternities is not surprising. The discussions 
in the past year have all been based on finan
cial arguments. However, the school has 
gone one step further. They now feel that 
they must place more restrictions on the in
ternal operations of the fraternities.
Point I of the revised fraternity housing 
policy proposes, "The yearly membership of 
 fraternities shall, on the basis of a threeyear moving average, be 45 students. At 
first the plan seems largely to be a financial 
one. Houses with 45 or more members should 
have no trouble in filling their dormitory, and 
consequently fulfilling their rent obligations 
to the school. However points II and III ' 
cover the whole problem of finances. (A min
imum of 90% occupancy rate and a debt ceil
ing of $10,000.00 is proposed.) There seems 
to be no reason to require more of the frater
nities. But Dr. Strick stated that the school 
:s interested in more .than financial reasons. 
This point once again raises the problem of 
increasing restrictions on members of frater
nities at Carnegie Tech.
The past few years have seen two main 
restrictions. First, fraternities are required 
to have housemothers and are prevented 
from rushing and pledging new freshmen 
during, the first semester of the school year, 
next fall. Secondly, freshmen are not allow
ed to live in fraternity-dormitories. These 
restrictions alone place financial burdens on 
the fraternities. But now the administration 
will consider requiring a house smaller than 
45 members to disband on the basis that a 
larger house offers much more to its mem
bers. It seems to us that the administration 
has no right to tell a fraternity that it can
not operate as long as its meeting its finan
cial obligations. To better understand the 
relationship between the administration and 
the fraternities, we must consider the im
portant principles the school must require 
from them.
First, the school wants to house and feed 
their fraternity students. Second, they want 
the fraternities to encourage their members 
toward higher grades. Third, the school 
wants to be free of financial worries. Per
haps the school has other reasons. They may, 
in fact, want the students to enjoy the social 
privileges a fraternity offers. But consider
ing the main objectives in light of the schools 
meeting with all fraternity men when first 
semester rush was curtailed, and the schools 
idea of a good fraternity, we feel these 
three points are permanent and justified. To 
a newcomer, it appears that unless the fra
ternities comply to the schools goals, they 
will extirpate them through financial attri
tion. However, this is not the motive for 
their past actions.
Certainly, if these are the schools three 
main requirements, they are not at all un
reasonable. What makes them a problem is 
the fact that the school neglected to impress 
upon some houses the importance of financial 
responsibility. That the school has given 
these houses a chance until now to come out 
of the red can only show their willingness to 
have these houses remain on campus. But 
now that the school is hindered by other 
financial and dormitory housing pressures, 
they feel it necessary to take definite action.
Few can argue against the reasons for en
forcing financial responsibility. That the 
school waited too long, however; to enforce 
this responsibility is their mistake. They 
should not try to correct it by requiring more 
of the hpuses to immediately operate at a 
break-even point during a 3 year period. 
Moreover, they should not govern the inter
nal operation of a fraternity.
The arguments presented at the last Coun
cil' of Fraternity Presidents meeting in favor 
of requiring a minimum number of members 
to operate a fraternity do not hold water. 
Surely a larger house may offer more ad
vantages than a smaller one, but it is illogical 
to say that a smaller house offers little or 
nothing to its members. Dr. Strick said that 
the administration notices that in the last 
ten years, the bigger chapters have always 
been the best ones. What the school may 
fail to realize is that the size of a house is 
not the cause, but rather just a symptom of 
what it offers to its members. To correct it 
by requiring each house to become large is 
to reason as the child who thinks that run
ning a temperature should be remedied by 
taking a bath in ice-water.
What is most important is that there are 
many students on this campus who prefer a 
smaller house to a larger one. Indeed, there 
are many who prefer a dorm to membership 
in a fraternity. Should we punish those stu
dents who live in a dorm because they do not 
offer as much to their residents as a large 
fraternity does? The arguments over what 
the school believes makes a good fraternity 
should be given in an advisory capacity only, 
as the school has done in the past. They 
should not be made into restrictions for all 
fraternities.
In the CFP booklet Greek Life at Car
negie, Dean Brown states that each chapter 
on our campus is significant and individual
istic. The present policy, if enacted by the 
administration, will certainly seem contra
dictory in light of this statement. After 
moving many chapters into duplex dormitor
ies that give the same external appearance, 
they now may require all chapters to be 
roughly of the same size.
The members of CFP voted unanimously 
at their last meeting on a'reasonable modi
fication of the schools proposed plan. The 
members feel that the 45 men minimum is 
unnecessary. In fact, one person offered an 
example of a chapter at M. I. T. which limits 
itself to a maximum of 30 men. As a result, 
men from this chapter have never failed to 
graduate from the college. CFP also feels that 
the restrictions on the proposed occupancy 
rate are too harsh. A slight revision was of
fered as an alternative.
When the administrative committee that 
drafted the proposal meets to consider the 
modifications presented by CFP and decides 
on a final policy, we hope they realize the 
importance of this revision to the fraternities 
in future years. As it now stands, the pro
posal will put some houses in jeopardy. We 
think that the decision will be approached 
in a mature manner by both sides. Even if 
the decision is harsh to a particular chapter, 
they should not feel that drastic action (such 
as suggesting to their alumni that they cur
tail their contributions to Carnegie Tech) is 
necessary.
Dr. Warner has predicted that in ten 
years, there should be many more students 
attending this school than at present. To
days students, who will be interested alumni 
in that time, will hope to return to their alma 
mater and their fraternity. They may be in
terested in seeing more chapters developed 
on this campus. At least, they will hope to 
find their own fraternity represented when 
they return. M.L.S.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Teachers
Everyone complains about teachers, but no one does^ 
anything'about,them. So goes the old saying. The writer 
of this column has wide experience (4 years as a student) 
observing the performance of college teachers, and now 
feels that he can make suggestions for the improvement of 
the species.
The suggestions will be outlined below, but first some 
important observations should be made. The most vital 
element that the teacher adds to the learning process is 
something that has not been isolated (by me anyway). The 
result of this intangible is an intense interest on the part ot 
students for the subject taught, and an eagerness to lear^i) 
more. All this may sound trite, but the ability to inspire 
such a response is a rare and valuable one.
The list is not meant to be all-inclusive; every student 
surely has items which he can add -to it. At best the list 
will only be a beginning which can be built upon. It should 
be emphasized that the intangible quality mentioned 
above is more important than all the items enumerated to
gether. But the trivial characteristics may give some 
teachers a guide on how to improve themselves, and perhaps 
stimulate further discussion.
Here they are:Plan in advance what you are going to teach a class 
during a period.If you. dont think material is important dont teach it.
Try to make classes interesting.
Show up for and dismiss classes on time.
If you have nothing more to say, dont drone on  
leave.
Return papers and tests within a reasonable time.
Give assignments in advance and make them specific.
An occasional lapse is enjoyable, but dont thing thajj 
you are befriending students by making only infrequent as
signments; those who want to learn will resent it.
Conversely, dont make assignments more lengthy than 
seems necessary. Dont give more than you would be pre
pared to do yourself; if possible make your aim quality, not 
quantity.
Get feedback about how well you are doing, and try 
to correct your faults. If the attendence or interest of your 
class is poor, you are probably at fault.
Requiring attendence is a sign of weakness; if the stu
dent learns, what difference does it make, whether he listens 
to you or not?
Proctor all exams closely.
If you are teaching analytic material, demonstrate the 
method you are explaining. Usually working a problem 
given in the textbook is sufficient.
Give incentives for your students to be "creative if 
you value creativity.
Try to give the impression that you dont think all your 
students are idiots.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
ICTITUTE OF TCCNNOLOCV
Editor in-Chief.............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ...............................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ............................................A1 Polloch
Business Manager................................Michael McCoy
News Editor........... ................ Dale Chodorow
Featuies Editor....................................Martha Hodgson
Layout Editor ........................................Drew Lippay
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock
Copy Editor . ...................... .Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager-.............................John Norris
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ..................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 Scennd Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 33, .Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the sludenls oi Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
diaries Hofook, Annie IVioser, Margie Park, Pefifiy_ Ri
Glassberg, Bob GrisEllisa Parker, Peggy Ri\
Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie, Tom ihm Marti Moore, Marlon Mulligan, Jim Penny Ross, Gretchen Smith, Bob
ulligan, Carolyn Rysnai. Arnold. H -------  ----......... Macosko.r.ayout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder. Drew Lippay, Beverely PhiJofsky, Ted 
Pierce, Marion Mulligan, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Recco, Bruce McDonald, Sharon Shuttlcworlh.Copy Staff: Helen Beatty, Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Nancy. Green, Mike Groenawalt, Verna Ream, Ginny Salko, Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd.Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakariar Carol Karnell, Karen Kutne grad, Carol Young.
OsiS, Howard

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 19, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pai 5
Your Man
In Congress
The first congress meeting of the new semester opened 
promisingly. Tom Miller  commented favorably upon the 
growth the govrning bodies are showing, encouraging posi
tive attitudes toward both the electorate and the administra
tion and long-run consideration of the effects of Congressional 
Legislation. He recommended that everyone in the Congress 
familiarize himself with the constitution and his electorate, 
take a more active.interest in publicity for activities, enforce 
all-school events, and promote unity among all the govern
ing groups  CFP, Pan Hel, and Mens and Womens Dorm 
Councils, as well as Congress and Executive Council. Bob 
Mercer spoke briefly upon the role of student courts and 
recommended that two minor administrative changes be ef
fected by the Congress.
Dick Elder, new General Campus Chairman, announced 
that the parking lots will have the gates lifted for general 
student use as soon after 8:30 p.m. as the cop can get there, 
and the petition to extend weekend library hours (with per
haps time-and-a-half for librarians?) is being considered. 
Bulletin boards are being designed by our own architects for 
the campus  maybe theyll fit in better than the library 
does.
Activities chairman, Andrea Vidakovic, announced that 
applications for Junior or Senior activities keys may be pick
ed up now in Skibo 103. If you dont know what these are, 
ask Charlie Ho Fook. The chairman of Spring Carnival says 
he knows what the entertainment for Carnival 64 is, but 
refuses to disclose any names. We know the Kingston Trio is 
in town the end of March  and the Bolshoi in mid-April . . .
Give ear, all holders of keys in Skibo  all locks are 
going to be changed and if you want a key, application must 
be made by Friday to Tom Douglas, Sigma Nu, Campus Mail. 
And you must have a good reason. This includes sororities 
and their trophy chests.
The Thistle, in a vain attempt to assure every Senior 
(even those who didnt want one) a yearbook, proposed a 
seven-dollar addition to the graduation fee, which would 
cover sitting for the senior picture, mailing fee, arid year
book, a regular $9.75 value. The addition, of course, would 
also assure the Thistle purchasers equal to the number of 
graduating seniors. The gesture was a result of the number 
of requests for yearbooks received by the alumrii office. 
Thistle and Dr. Stricks office after graduation, estimated at 
about 60+. Congress, however, supported the 100 or so seniors 
who do not wish to have yearbooks by defeating the $2.75 
saving, and the mandatory purchase.
For lack of information on SAE  Motor.sports Club con
flicts, a motion t recognize the Motorsports Club was sent to 
committee. The International Club, sponsor of famous wine 
and cheese parties, was recognized by Congress. The meeting 
then tackled the extra day of Thanksgiving vacation. This 
issue seems to be one that will never die in this Congress; its 
history seems worthy of eulogy, for as the Congress stayed 
later and later, the members got hungrier and hungrier and 
more and more exasperated. The Congress had been asked 
only to recommend the day to make up the Friday of Thanks
giving vacation, which has been removed from next years 
calendar. Instead, it became entangled in a semantical melee 
and finally the question was called by a well-meaning mem
ber and the motion was defeated. The issue itself seemed 
inane for overuse, and any resolution by Congress rather in
effective, for the calendar committee will undoubtedly choose 
the day which suits its own purposes. Christmas vacation 
was recommended, not only for its length and closeness to 
intersession, but for the availability of a day on the right side 
of a weekend. The Congress, otherwise a very fruitful one, 
ended with this note of discord.
Thistle Needs
Salesmen and 
Layout Staff
Want to earn a FREE 1964 
Thistle? Interested in becoming a 
member, of a publication, business 
or layout staff?
At the present time, salesmen 
are needed for dormitories, fra
ternity . houses, and commuters. 
If you are interested in any of 
these opportunities, contact Judy 
I.itman or send your'narfie, tele
phone number and position de
sired to the Thistle, Box 122, cam
pus mail.
Openings on the layout staff 
i.'so present the opportunity of 
becoming a permanent member 
on the Thistle staff. If you are 
interested in this field, piease con
tact Tod Johnson, 682-2123.
JUNIORS, SENIORS and
<SUN0C0> GRADUATE STUDENTS On-Campus Interviews
------ MARCH 3rd -----------
Both Permanent and Summer Positions Are Available In Philadelphia, 
Penna., Dallas, Texas, and Toledo, Ohio For Men In These Fields:
 CHEM. ENGRG. 
o MECH. ENGRG.
 ELEC. ENGRG.
 CHEMISTRY
 OPERATIONS RES.
 MATHEMATICS
Visit your Placement Office nov 
sonal interview is inconvenient.
 ACCOUNTING
 BUSINESS ADMIN.
 IND. MGMT./ADMIN.
 ECONOMICS
 MARKETING
 TRANSPORTATION
t to Schedule an Appointment. IF perwrite to College Relotions Division 
SUN OIL COMPANY
1608 Walnut Street Philadelphia 3, Penna.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
6 Fraternities 
Elect Officers
(continued from page 1)
Stone; Steward, William Froelich; 
Sergeant-at-arms, Larry Lang; 
CFP rep., Kenneth Kelly.
Tlieta Xi:. President, Richard 
Blacker; Vice President, Richard 
Osman; Comptroller, Henry 
Stover; House Manager, Russell 
Stinebaugh; Steward, James 
Panepinto; Corresponding Secre
tary, Robert James; Scholarship 
Chairman, Henry Stover; Pledgemaster, Michael Bender; Social 
Chairman, James Panepinto; 
Treasurer, Harold Eberenz; Sergeant-at-Arms, Allan Merchant; 
Junior CFP Representative, Rich
ard Osman; Student Congress, 
James Geaman.
Pi Kappa Alpha: 3MC, Walter 
Kirchofer; IMC, Leroy Gunner; 
ThC, Andrew Langlois; SC, Rob 
ert Peterson; Asst. The,' Joseph 
Bowman; House Manager, Tim
othy Hiss; Steward, Lou Zaera; 
Social Chairman, Kenneth Don
nelly; Historian, Douglas Saun 
ders; Alumni Secretary, Dennis 
Taylor; Exec. Comm. Reps., John 
Elsey, William Suhie; Asst. Rush 
Chairman, Dennis Taylor.
Tau Delta Phi: Consul, Martin 
Skowron; Vice Consul, Carl Ballay; Scribe, John Ward; Commit
tee Chairmen: Financial, Meredith 
Long; Grounds, Kenneth Solmon; 
Pledge, Richard Elkman; Provi
sions, Stephen Weinreich; Rush, 
Ronald Werrin; Social, Stephen 
Sadacca; I. M. Sports, Stephen 
Albert.
WHERE ELSE
But From the Factory Author
ized Dealer such as M. W 
Motors can you get a new
VOLKSWAGEN
md 3,000 mile inspccti<
seats) and the factory guarantee uthorjzcd VW
Price is a low S1C7S and dein
Today's Best Buy
'58 Volkswagen Sedan 
fully equipped one owner
$895
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. ' Rt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. G-1810
This Week In Pittsburgh
MOVIES
Breathless, France, 1959, Jean-Ltic Godard, Thursday, 
February 20
LECTURES
The Education of Hyman Kaplan, YM&WHA, 315 
S. Bellefield Avenue, February 20, 8:15, Dr. Richard 
Tobias, expert on comedy, who teaches an upperclass 
course in comedy at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Zephaniah and Haggai, Irene Kaufmann Center, 
Forbes and Murray Avenues, in Squirrel Hill, Feb
ruary 20, 8:30 p.m., Dr. Bernard A. Purpko, in his 
series on The Latter Prophets - Their Messages a:r-d 
Influence.
MUSIC
Eighteenth Century Chamber Music, Carnegie 
Concert Series, String Quartet, Wilkes College, 
Wilkes-Barre, free to the public Carnegie Lecture 
Hall, February. 19, 8:30 p.m.
Bennington College Dance Group, Chatham College, 
Woodland Road, Chapel, February 20, 8 p.m. ' 
Pittsburgh Opera, Syria Mosque, Cavaleria Rusticana 
and Pagliaci, February 20, 7:15 p.m. Tickets: mail or 
phone orders  412 Farmers Bank Building, Pitt 
Book Center, Gimbels, Hornes.
Concert in cooperation with Misericordia College,
Dallas, Pennsylvania, Carnegie Lecture Hall, Febru
ary 19, 8:30 p.m., no tickets required.
Pittsburgh Symphony, Samuel Thaviv and Michael 
Grebanier playing Brahms Concerto in A minor for 
violin and cello, February 21 and 23.
Susan Starr, Pittsburgh premier performance, Y.M. and 
W.H.A., 315 S. Bellefield Avenue, Oakland, February 26, 8:40 p.m.
EXHIBITS
15th-17th century herbals and their woodcuts, Hunt 
Botanical Library, 1-5 p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Thurs
day, Friday; 1-5 p.m. Wednesday February 13  
March 31.
Photography 35, Herbert K. Barnett, Porter Garnett 
Gallery, AH 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Friday,9 a.m.-iioon 
Saturday, February 13-22.
Great Ideas of Western Man, Painting and Sculpture 
by leading contemporary artists, works originally 
commissioned by Contanier Corporation of America 
for its advertising series, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday-Sunday, Skibo, February 13-22.
Paintings and drawings by Harry Holland, instructor 
in drawing, Carnegie Tech, 10 a.m.-4 p.m. TuesdavSaturday, 2-5 p.m. Sunday, February 13-March 1. 
SPORTS
Basketball, C.I.T. vs. W & J, Tech gym, February I 
8:15 p:m.
MEETINGS
Pennsylvania Society of Professional 'Engineers, 
^February 20, 8:00 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Physical Group of the American Chemical Society, 
February 24, 8:00 - 10:00 p.m., Porter Hall 100.
So pressed for time that 
you havent kept in touch with home ?
With college activities making such heavy de
mands on you, telephoning is the quickestand 
most satisfyingway to assure the family that 
you havent forgotten them. Call tonight.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 19, 1964
Six-Week Training Program 
Introduces College Juniors 
To Peace Corps Experience
Of 6,000 volunteers to begin training this summer, 700 
are college juniors who will be available for Peace Corps 
service in June, 1965. On completion of a six-week program 
after their junior year, the trainees will return to their own 
campus for their senior year. They will thfen be encouraged 
to continue their language and*---------------------------------------------------
area studies on an individual basis. 
After college graduation in June,
1965, they will undergo a period of 
Peace Corps Training of four to 
eight weeks before going overseas.
Because volunteers are still 
needed with liberal arts, agricul
tural, or engineering skills, train
ing in physical education, health,
. home economics and 300 other 
fields to. fill requests from 4n for
eign countries, negotiations with 
colleges and universities regard
ing the summer program are now 
underway. If a sufficient, mimber 
of junior applicants qualify, there 
will be at least five different 
training programs. They are:
a) Secondary school teachers for 
English-speaking Africa
b) Secondary school teachers for 
French-speaking Africa
c) Urban community develop
ment workers for Spanish
speaking Latin America
d) Teachers of English as a for
eign language
e) Applicants to learn more diffi
cult languages, such as Thai, 
not ordinarily taught in Amer
ican Colleges.
According to Peace Corps Di
rector Sargent Shriver: "The main 
advantage to the summer program 
is that the applicants can plan for 
eventual Peace Corps service. 
They might then revise their sen
ior year curriculums to reflect 
their interest in a particular kind 
of Peace Corps assignment. Fur
ther, they will be able to devote 
their summers to a career-related 
purpose at .no cost, while possibly 
obtaining extra college credit. The 
additional lead time will give the 
Peace Corps a better opportunity 
to line up overseas, assignments 
appropriate to the individual skills 
and aptitudes of the applicants.
There will be no cost to the 
trainee either before or after the 
senior year. The Peace Corps will 
provide room, board, pocket 
money, and a monthly readjust
ment allowance of $75.
Any interested Tech student 
may inquire about the Peace 
Corps Questionnaire and the next 
nation-wide Placement Test with 
Dr. R. E. Parshall in Administra
tion Hall, Room 260.
Those juniors who are interest
ed and have already submitted 
Questionnaires may indicate their 
further interest by writing to the 
Division.of Selection, Peace Corps, 
Washington, D.C. 20520. All Tech 
applicants to the Senior Year Pro
gram should have an up-to-date 
tamscripl of college records.mail
ed to the Divisions Of Selection 
and if they have not already done
Tri Delta Gives 
Scholarships
. Executive Board of Detlta Delta 
Delta National Fraternity has re
cently announced its annual Na
tional Scholarship Fund Compe
tition. This year 6 scholarships, 
each of $750, will be awarded 
among the one hundred and eight 
campuses where dates of competi
tion are January 15 through March
1, 1964. Successful applicants will 
be notified on May 1, 1964.
The competition is open to Jun
ior women students, and awards 
must be used to complete the sen
ior year. The applicants may or 
.may not be sorority members and 
ere is no restriction as to race, 
lor, creed, or field of study. 
Applications are available in 
e Financial Aid Office, AH 150.
so, should take the Peace Corps 
Placement Test as soon as pos
sible.
Kleinmuntz
Researches 
In Computers
While it is difficult to imagine a 
computer eliciting a toe reflex or 
standing ready scrubbed , in and 
sterilized for major central nercous system surgery, the computer 
may someday be an effective tool 
for aiding neurologists in arrivinj 
at more accurate clinical diag 
noses.
Dr. Benjamin Kleinmuntz, asso 
ciate professor of psychology at 
Tech, hopes to demonstrate the 
computers usefulness for medical 
diagnosis in a three-year $57,000 
grant from the National Institutes 
of Health.
According to Dr. Kleinmuntz, 
It is not the purpose of this study 
to demonstrate that the computer 
can do a better diagnostic job 
than the neurologist, but rather to 
use the computer to point out to 
the diagnostician some of the 
ways in which he functions in the 
clinical situation. The concern of 
some people -that the computer 
would be eventually used to re
place the diagnostician is un
warranted.
Dr. Kleinmuntz recently finish
ed another three-year, NIH-sponsored research project in which 
he successfully demonstrated that 
it is possible to teach the com
puter to become a more efficient 
personality test 'interpreter than 
some experts. The new project is 
a more complicated extension of 
that research.
The major goal of the new 
project is to study the diagnostic 
decision making strategies of clin
ical neurologists and subsequently 
to incorporate into an electronic 
digital computer program, the op
timal diagnostic research strategies 
used by the best clinical neurolo
gists in the field;
"I visualize, said Dr. Klein
muntz, as a by-product of this 
present study, that the computer 
will be used routinely someday 
for the purpose of aiding the 
diagnostician to make more ac
curate clinical diagnoses. For in
stance, after the neurologist has 
made his decision on the bases of 
various clinical and laboratory 
tests, he can have his findings 
read into a computer and have the 
machine render a diagnostic judg
ment. If the computer has learned 
its neurology well, it should be 
able to offer the human clinician 
a.number of alternative diagnoses 
that he just did not happen to 
chance upon.
Carnegie Tech 
Aids Schools
Carnegie Tech has been awarded 
a $43,000 grant from the National 
Science Foundation to support a 
research participation program for 
high school students and teach
ers.
The program enables high school 
students and teachers to spend 
part of next summer on the Car
negie Tech campus as members of 
research teams engaged in high 
level experimentation in engineer
ing and chemistry. Another part 
of the project provides for Satur
day classes during the academic 
year in mathematics, computer 
sciences, physics, and electrical, 
engineering.
Kiltie Band Shows Versatility 
In Marching, Concert Selection
Concerts of the Kiltie Band which were presented at 
Carnegie Music Hall on February 9 and 15 gave ample pro6f 
of the vitality of this musical organization. With the close of 
the football season, the marching Kilties became a concert 
band oriented toward serious achievement.
The two most recent concerts
were presented for the College 
Band Directors National Asso
ciation and the Composers For
um. In December of this year 
the bands wind and brass en
sembles played on television sta
tions WQED and KDKA, respec
tively. A three - day tour is 
planned for April which will in
clude performances in Cumber
land, Maryland, and Winchester, 
Vinginia. .
Of the bands ninety-three 
members, fifty-one major in mu
sic. Membership is open to all 
students, regardless of depart
ment. The conductor of the Kil
tie Band is Richard Strange, who 
recived his degree of Doctor of 
Musical Arts at Boston Univer
sity and served as Director of 
Bands at West Virginia Univer
sity before coming to Carnegie 
Tech. Assistant conductor is 
Philip Catelinet, who has played 
tuba in the Philharmonic Orches
tra of London under the baton 
of such conductors as Herbert 
Von Karajan and Sir Thomas 
Beecham. The bands student of
ficers are President, Fred Sammel, a drum major, assisted by 
Gordon Blackie, a pipe major.
Also upholding the tradition of 
the Carnegie Tech Kilties is the 
oagpipe corps, which follows a 
schedule just as active as that 
of the Kiltie Band: After ap
pearing at Freshman Camp in 
September, the pipers join the 
marching band at football games. 
Traditionally, they lead the Fall 
Fertival parade and take part 
in pep rallies. Without their pres
ence, no building would be dedi
cated. The squeal of the pipes 
is also heard during Call Day at 
the crowning of the Spring Car
nival Queen, and all Kiltie Band 
concerts are completed with The 
Procession of the Pipers. In, 
June, the pipers play at the class
re-unions during Homecoming 
Weekend and then lead the grad
uates down the aisle at com* 
mencement.
When summer comes, the pipers do not pack their bags and 
disband. Under the leadership of 
Lew Davidson, who has directed 
the bagpipe corps at CIT since 
1939, the Carnegie Tech Pipe 
Band annually participates in 
Highland Games at Grandfather 
Mountain in North Carolina and 
at Ligonier, Pennsylvania. Last 
summer the pipers were an 
nounced at the Ligonier games as 
the only local band with enough * 
guts to take oh the Canadian 
bands in competition. Some 
Tech pipers have come from as 
far as New York and New Jersey 
to march with the pipe cops dur
ing summer vacation. That this 
devotion to the pipes continues 
after graduation is evidenced by 
Tlie presence of many former CIT 
pipers in bands throughout the 
country.
The Kiltie musicians, .band *-s 
members and pipers alike, have 
talent and spirit of which Car
negie Tech can certainly be 
proud.
Dennis Moffatt sought a job with responsibility
He found it at Western Electric
Dennis Moffatt, B.A., Coe College, Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa, '57, joined Western Electric in 1961 after two 
years of graduate work at the State University of 
Iowa and two years with the Army. Most important 
to Dennis was the fact that WE offered him the 
chance to move ahead ... fast. Dennis started 
at Western Electrics Hawthorne Works in Chicago 
as a Staff Trainee in Industrial Relations.
After only a year with the Company and the 
completion of one of WEs training programs for 
college graduates, Dennis became a Personnel 
Placement Analyst. Advancing rapidly, Dennis was 
recently promoted to Section Chief, Employment
and Placement, Systems Equipment Engineering.
If you, like Dennis Moffatt, want a career with 
a company that will recognize your skills and abili
ties, and have the qualifications we're looking for 
let's talk! Opportunities for fast-moving careers 
exist now for liberal arts, physical science and 
business majors, as well as for electrical, mechani
cal and industrial engineers. Get the Western Elec
tric Career Opportunities booklet from your Place
ment Officer. Or write: Western Electric, Room 
6405, 222 Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be 
sure to arrange for an interview when the Bell 
System recruiting team visits your campus.
E/CCffiCMANUFACTLifHNQ AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BEUL SYSTEM \
AH EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities  Operatine centers in many of these same cities pls 36 others throughout the U.S. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N.J. Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark.  Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New York

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 19. 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Paee.J
I Oakland to be Research Town 
I Smith Explains Projects Goals 
j Of Promoting Cultural Study
^ One February 11, in the Wherrett Room of Skibo, Freder
ick Smith, president of the Oakland Corporation, spoke on 
the Panther Hollow Research Park to a capacity audience. 
I Mr. Smith was elected president of the corporation in 1962 
and, previous to that time he had held such positions as vice; 
president of the Prudential In-4 surance Company, .assistant to the '
Secretary of the Treasury, and 
bead of the National Labor Con1 The essential purpose of the 
J ^Oakland Corporation, according to 
| ~\Mr. Smith, is to turn the Oakland 
!jj area into a University Town 
3 io capitalize on the educational,
:j cultural, and sceintific institutions
i already existing here; and to draw
| from Pittsburgh all who are inter:.\ sstcd in research and developj lent.
The corporation has made i study of the kinds of people whoji arc usually attracted to such re-t,^search areas. Their findings show | ' that these people must be located ;j near universities as they demandj cultural and recreational facilities| near their places of residence.i Panther Hollow seems ideally suit-( ed to meet these requirements be-j cause of the proximity of CarnegieJ Tech, the University of Pittsburgh,
jj Schenley Park, Carnegie Institutei and other cultural and recreational| facilities.
ject site and of artists conceptions of how some of the buildings will look. Following his presentation, he answered questions from the floor, and finally announced that a model of the entire project is now on display in the Commons Room of the Cathedral of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh.
jj^4- Mr. Smith explained that this | entire project was a long-term af-j /air which will eventually ex-j tend about one mile, from Forbes;4 Street to the Boulevard of. the Allies. The buildings themselvesj| will resemble giant inverted pyra-* mids, shaped to fill the existing;! void in Panther Holloa. About,
.j two-thirds of the project will be| devoted to research, both physical$ and thinking, while the remain-3 ^er will include a playhouse, an 5 extension to Carnegie museum, aJ restaurant, a retail store complex,4 and a large computer center.
J There will be parking space on ti the lower levels, while a cross-J town highway and the presentj railroad tracks will run throughi the ground level. The structuresj near Forbes Street will have fives stories, but near the Schenley| Park Bridge will have seven,| Jeight, or nine floors because of 3 1he depth of the hollow there,g Plant-lined paths leading fromI Schenley Park will extend, over| the roof of the project, which willI actually be ground level. A por-l tion of the complex, just behindI the bureau of Mines, will be ab-| sorbed and put to use by Car-| negie Tech.
jj Mr. Smith declares that theku*ldings will be easy to air con5 3 dition because so few of them are
i exposed to the sun in summer or
g the wind in winter. Perfectly con
trolled air conditioning is essen'ial where research is conducted. 
In some areas there will be few, 
if any, windows so that light in the 
rooms can be more rigidly con
trolled. in other areas light will be 
readily admitted by means of 
windows facing courtyards.
3 The entire project will be built phases, with the first phase {between Forbes Street and Sheniey Park Bridge) scheduled to be?in by the middle of the year. The tfrst building of the phase, an Eshaped research area, will take two years to build, according to Mr. Smith, and the entire first phase should be completed in about seven years.
Before the initial phase of the .'J research center is completed, there will be a housing project begun in this area to furnish low-income, middle class, or luxury housing ior the influx of families expected to move into the area. Mr. Smith predicts that 1200-1500 families would be willing to re-locate their housing by the time the project is completed, if adequate housing is available.
At the assembly, Mi-. Smith ^showed slides of the proposed pro
Visual Novel 
On Exhibition
Death is All the Time, the first 
part of a visual novel, entitled We 
Two, is a startling, powerful, and 
often prophetic series of drawings 
by the artist Joseph Kaglie. The 
series will be included in a oneman exhibition beginning Febru
ary 22 at the Pittsburgh Gallery of 
Fine Art.
We Two is hot a novel in a 
literary sense but strictly in a 
visual sense. In the 169 drawings 
of Book I the artist/author exag
gerates, analyses, and re-interprets 
the varied images of todays real
ity  war, commercialized sex, 
Presidential assassination ,et al. 
This work could be compared to 
Goyas etchings and Henry 
Moores drawings on war and 
death.
Not only will there be drawings 
in this exhibition. There will also 
be several Environment Paint
ings, some ofwhich open, re
vealing humor and seriousness, 
hidden environments. Others look 
like they should open but do not. 
Several small paintings have high
ly polished yet rough looking space 
expanses concerning Arizona, ad
vertised hell, and space. Many of 
the works have compartments, 
some have hidden objects, all have 
articulated interlocking realities 
on canvas or board, using photo
graphs, paint, epoxy, objects, sand, 
Elmers glue, etc. to state what 
must be said.
Joseph L. Kagle, Jr., a thirtyone year old painter, printmaker, 
and lecturer, was bom in Pitts
burgh and studied as a child in 
the Carnegie Museum School of 
Art for twelve years. Mr. Kagle 
has exhibited paintings, prints, 
drawings, and sculpture extensive
ly throughout the country. He has 
one-man exhibitions in San Fran
cisco; New York; Boulder, Colo
rado; Hanover, New Hampshire; 
Phoenix and Chicago. In Pitts
burgh he has exhibited with the 
Associated Artists, the Society of 
Sculptors, the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, and, in 1962, he had a 
one-man exhibit at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse. In 1963 he had a oneman exhibit at the Pittsburgh 
Gallery of Fine Art. His works are 
included in many collections, most 
notably in the G. David Thompson 
Collection, Pittsburgh; the Edwin 
Mosely Collection, Skidmore Col
lege; the Kimon Friar Collection, 
New York; the Stephen Spender 
Collection, London; the .DeJJelMuseum; and the Jhoenix Mu
seum.
In conjunction with his exhi
bition, which opens , on February 
22 and continues through March 
17, Mr. Kagle will present his _leeture-play The Dada Revolt, at the 
Gallerys location at 114 Meyran 
Avenue in Oakland 0IVsoa*urd*f 
evening, March 7 at 8:30 p.m. 
There is also a lecture series plan
ned with the general title Learn
ing to See; the dates to be an
nounced* '
1650 Volumes of Hunt Collection 
Start Drive For 4000 Rare Books
Music listening section
Book lovers have already be
gun to contribute copies of fine 
and rare editions to the collec
tion dedicated last month at the 
Hunt Library on the Carnegie 
Tech campus.
The two rooms, which house 
this collection and are located on
of new Fine Arts floor
the fourth floor of the library, 
were made possible by an addi
tional gift of $175,000 from Mr. 
and Mrs. Roy A. Hunt, whose 
original donation of $2.8 million 
built the library in 1961.
When plans for the special 
books rooms were first formuPhoto by Tom Clements
lated, Mrs. Hunt agreed that her 
collection of about 1,650 books 
would be transferred to the cam 
pus. It was Mrs. Hunts hope 
that other collectors of fine and 
rare books might contribute them 
to the library, which is capable 
of housing over 4,000 volumes.
Met ings Peea leP growth 
in data oPefsmmrJudnp IBM
IBM offers graduates with bachelors or advanced degrees in Engineer
ing, th Sciences,-Business Administration, Econpmics, or Liberal Arts 
challenging assignments rn the marketing of information systems and 
equipment, i
Rewarding opportunities exist in more than 190 IBM Sales and Service 
Offices located in major cities throughout the United States. B 
These opportunities increase with each new system that is designed to 
meet the growing needs of business, industry, government, research, 
education, or space. B
wide range of positions
Marketing: B The IBM Data Processing Representative is a consultant 
to his customers, i He demonstrates how customers can achieve bet
ter business management and controls through data processing, i 
Systems Engineering: B IBM Data Processing Systems Engineers are 
men and women who study customer requirements in depth, devise, an 
approach, define a preferred machine and operational solution, and 
assist in implementing this solution. B
opportunities for advancement
IBM, an Equal Opportunity Employer, offers you extensive training in 
the area of your special interest. B This training continues as you ad
vance along a planned career path leading to professional or managerial 
positions. B
We also have comprehensive company-paid Benefits plans. ..training 
programs to keep you abreast of developments in your field... and a 
tuition-refund plan to give you financial assistance for graduate study. B
eJdfnaotm rJpsPgrshm
See your college placement director to determine when IBM will inter
view on campus, and make an appointment to see our representative. 
If the interview date is inconvenient for you, please write or call: B
W. J. Deskin, Branch Manager, B IBM Corporation, 421 7th Ave., 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa., CO 1-6880. B
IBM will interview Mar. 12. 13.
MOVE AHEAD WITHIBM
DATA PROCESSING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TARTAN -sWednesday February .19, 1964
Dr.- 'Marcus Barth Discusses. _
;uValues? at Tuesday AssemblyStudents Earning Over $600 May
Claim Exemption On Tax Return,v..'"Values:- Personal-.versus Pro
fessional will be the focus of 
discussions in living units dur
ing the vweek of February 10th 
of the Campus Conference, on 
 Religion, climaxing in an Assem
bly on Tuesday, February 18th 
at 11;30 a.m. when Dr. Markus 
Barth, Professor of New Testa
ment at Pittsburgh. Theological 
: Seminary, recently of the Uni
versity of Chicago Federated The
ological Faculties, will speak. 
Representatives of Mens Dorm 
Council, Womens Dorm Council, 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
and Pan Hellenic are setting plans 
for discussions in living units, 
some of them coed, recruiting 
student leaders and faculty re
sources for these discussionswho 
will spend from 10:30 to 2:30 iil 
training on Saturday, February 
8th.
A panel of faculty and clergy 
including Dr. Barth, Dr. Robert 
Morgan, Dr. Robert Rothfus, and 
Father Henry ten KorTenaar will 
attempt on that training day to 
stimulate ideas with which to 
launch the living unit bull ses
sions, which will take place be
tween February 10th and 17th. 
It is hoped that each such dis
cussion can have two student 
leaders assisted by a faculty re.- 
eource person.
' Students and faculty who are' 
interested in "assisting with this 
leadership are urged to notify the 
rOfiice of Religious Affairs, or to 
get in touch with John Spare or 
Russ Newman of Men's Dorm 
Council, Hedda Bluestone of 
1 Womens Dorm Council, JudyPhillis of Pan Hellenic, John 
Parker of C.F.P., Peter Hotz of 
Executive Committee of Student 
Congress, or Tom Kenat, Chair
man of the Campus Conference 
on Religion. Ideas and questions 
raised in bull sessions and in the 
Assembly presentation can be 
brought to a dinner meeting on 
the evening of the Assembly, 
February 18, when a panel of
Pillsbury Seeks 
Home Ec Grad
The chance to take a gSant step 
into business as a junior executive 
is the unusual and attractive fea
ture of the 1964 Pillsbury Awards 
Program, now open for applica
tions from Home Economics 
seniors.
The top Home Economics grad
uate of the year  selected from 
applications on a basis of scholar
ship, extra-curricular experience, 
and personal suitability  will 
step into a key position as Asso
ciate Manager of Pillsburys Edu
cational Program. Her starting 
salary of $4800 will be supple
mented by cash award of $500, 
plus a $2500 scholarship for grad
uate study or a permanent posi
tion with Pillsbury following her 
year of executive training.
Other awards in the 1964 Pro
gram include grants of $150 and 
a two-day, expense-paid trip to 
Minneapolis for four award final
ists.
The years schedule for the top 
award winner is designed to give 
practical and personalized train
ing in the operation of such cor
porate departments as marketing, 
public relations, research, legal, 
and others which relate to the re
sponsibilities of the Home Econo
mist in business. The Award Win
ners assignments include inten
sive work in recipe development, 
preparation of educational mater
ials for high school students, and 
speeches before teen-age audi
ences. Her activities will also in
clude attendance at the AHEA 
National Convention, attendance 
at Pillsburys Annual Bake-Off as 
official hostess to the junior con
testants, and television demon
strations throughout the country.
Complete information on appli
cations, for the Program has been 
supplied to Deans and Chairmen 
Home Economics.
students with Dr. Barth-, willat
tempt to dig more deeply into 
the problem raised by the de
mands of our professional lives 
as they conflict with the expec
tations and values we set for our
selves in our personal lives.
High er Salaries 
Seen For 1964 
June Graduates
In a recent article published by 
the Wall Street Journal, it was 
announced th^t college students 
graduating in 1964 would receive 
salary offers of $10 and $20 more 
per month than figures of 1963.
The information was based on 
a survey of 205 large business 
concerns conducted by North
western University. The basis for 
the increase is the apparent de
pletion of graduates with bache
lor's.degrees, who, passing up sal
aries of about $600 per month, 
continue on in favor of more edu
cation. Many companies had re
ported that masters degree hold
ers had "inflated ideas of what 
they were worth.
Despite these reports, however, 
the 205 companies, that were sur
veyed said that they hope to hire 
32% more masters degree gradu
ates in 1964.
Although" more Carnegie 'iech 
seniors are going on to graduate 
work than ever before <13 out of 
27 in mathematics and 19 out of 
24 in. chemistry, as reported by 
the Bureau of Placements), the 
average acceptance salary for 
bachelors degree holders from 
Carnegie Tech is $590 per month.
Mr. Ryan, of the Bureau, said 
that although more masters de
gree holders are being hired from 
the ever-increasing crop, com
panies . look more at the person 
who holds the degree than at the 
degree.
In his report of June, 1963, 
Charles Wangeman, Director of 
the Carnegie Tech Bureau of 
Placements, announced that the 
majority of Tech graduates (44%') 
steps immediately after graduation 
into fields of employment, 41 of 
the 44% being hired by industry 
and the remaining 3 out of 44% 
by government. Thirty-seven per
cent go on to graduate work, and 
19%, either make other plans or 
serve in the armed services.
The summary of sa'ary offers 
for bachelors degree studer.ts, as 
it appeared in the Wall Street 
Journal, said that eugireering 
graduates can expect $610 per 
month, accounting graduates, $534 
per month, salesmen, $508, and 
men with general business educa
tion, about $490.
U.S. Steel9 GSI 
Begin Research
(continued from page 2) 
of ways to improve the appli
cation of linear programming to 
large scale industrial problems by 
reducing the amount of computationr' sters necessary for a so
lution. Linear programming is a 
method for finding the highest 
profit or lowest cost solution to 
a wide variety of management 
problems, including factory sched
uling, selection of transportation 
routes, and attainment of pro
duct performance specifications 
when there are limiting condi
tions or constraints.
The cost of solving such prob
lems on a computer can be low
ered by this research. Further, 
problems which were not pre
viously and economically feasi
ble to undertake, can now be re
duced to manageable size in terms 
of computational time and com
plexity, The results could have 
widespread value to firms and 
government agencies interested in 
using linear programming as a 
tool for decision making.
Students who had jobs during 
the summer vacation or part-time 
jobs were reminded by John H. 
Bingler, Director of the Pittsburgh' 
District of the Internal Revenue 
Service, of the special provision 
in the tax law which allows a par
ent, under certain circumstances, 
to claim a son or daughter as a 
dependent even though the stu
dent has income of more than $600 
and files his own income taix re
turn. This special provision ap
plies to all full-time students, re
gardless of their age. Exemptions 
in these cases may be claimed by 
the parents if they contribute 
more than half the students sup
port regardless of^the amount 
earned by the student. (This same 
provision applies to children un
der 19 years of age whether or 
not ..they are in school.)
-, The student, if he is 19 or over, 
must be engaged in full - time 
study at a recognized educational 
institution for at least 5 months 
of the taxable yoar. Attendance 
at night school while holding a 
day-time job does not qualify; this 
is considered as part-time attend
ance.
Even it a student is listed as a 
dependent on his parents return," 
he may still claim his own exemp
tion on his return. Employers will
Screen Writers 
Give Awards
Three awards' totaling $2,500. 
are to be given American univer
sity students by professional 
screen writers in Hollywood. A 
first prize of $1,000, a second of 
$750 and a third of $500 will be 
awarded graduate students on Oc
tober 1, 1964 in an-"unprecedent
ed script writing contest. Submis
sions close on August 1, 1964.
In a joint statement from Writ
ers Guild of American National 
Chairman James R. Webb and 
WGA'West Screen Branch Presi
dent Alien Rivkin said:
With fewer and more expen
sive pictures being made, it has 
become increasingly difficult for a 
young writer to break in. These 
awards are designed to aid him 
in making that all-important step. 
Though the awards are substantial 
enough to be of help financially, 
an even greater ^benefit is expect
ed to result from bringing the 
winners talent to the attention 
of motion picture executives who 
are in a position to purchase 
screenplays or to employ writers.
Contestants will be limited to 
graduate students regularly en
rolled in courses in Dramatic Arts 
as a major subject, as well as to 
graduate students in other fields 
who are presently studying, or 
who have as undergraduates 
studied dramatic writing. No con
testant with professional experi
ence as a dramatic writer in 
either motion pictures, television, 
or the theatre Will be considered.
Entries are required to be in 
accepted screenplay form and to 
range in length from 120 to 150 
typewritten pages, except in the 
case of "musicals, which need to 
be no longer than 100 pages in 
order to allow for the film footage 
taken up by song and dance num
bers.
As the motion picture industry 
is primarily concerned with fic
tion, documentary screenplays 
will not be eligible, although en
tries may have a basis in fact and 
a documentary style is permissible 
if it adds to the content of the 
story.
Final judging will be done by 
a panel of experienced screen 
writers all of whom are familiar 
with present trends in the film in
dustry.
Entries are limited to one from 
each author, but two copies must 
be submitted, one in a separate 
sealed envelope. As a protection 
to the author, the sealed copy will 
(continued on page 12)
have furnished the student with 
W-2 forms before January 31, 
.1964. These forms show total earn
ings .and the amount of .Federal 
tax withheld. These two figures 
will determine whether or not the 
student must file a return. A re
turn must be filed if the .gross in
come including earnings for the 
year, is over $600. Even though
total earnings are less than $600, 
if income tax was withheld from* 
the-wages, a return-should-also ba 
filed to have the withheld tax ro?j 
funded.
Answers to any questions re, 
garding individual cases may be 
obtained by phoning or visit in 
any local Internal Revenue Ser. 
vice office.
Oufentns i%Shuiman
(Author of "Rally Round the Flag, BoysV*. 
end "Barefoot Boy With Ckeek*.) 
y .......................HI II" *.......................mm...................I
ECONOMICS CAN BE CHUCKLES
Many of you have been avoiding economics because it is so 
widely known as the dismal science. Oh, good friends, stop 
cheating yourselves of many a laugh and cheer, because ecofc* 
noraics is a positive not! True, it is called the dismal science, 
but that is only because it was invented in 1681 by Walter C.
Dismal.
It ie easy to understand why Mr. Dismal's discovery of 
economics is today almost forgotten, for the fact is that ho 
himself only stayed with the subject for two or three days.
After that he took up embonpoint, which means fatness. It is 
said that at his apogee, Mr. Dismal reached 1200 pounds. This 
later became known as Guy Fawkes Day.
It was not until 1776 when Adam Smith published his Wealth 
of Nations (or Ozytnandias, as it is usually known as) that the  
world came to realize what a rosy, twinkly, fun subject eco
nomics is. As Mr. Smith showed in his jocular little treatise, 
there is nothing complicated about economics.
When there is a great demand for a product, a great supply 
is placed on the market. When there is a small demand, there 
is a small supply. Take, for example, castanets. You walk into 
any average American town today and Ill wager you wont see 
more than eighty or ninety castanet shops. That is because the 
demand is small.
For Marlboro Cigarettes, on the other hand, the demand is t
great. Thus,-you will find Marlboroswith all their yummy " 
rich tobacco flavor and pure white Selectrate filter and pliable 
soft pack and unpliable Flip-Top boxat any counter where 
cigarettes are sold in every one of our fifty great States and 
Duluth.
- To Adam Smith, I say, belongs the distinction of.popularizing 
economics. Mr. Smith was followed by David Ricardo. In fact, 
everywhere he went he was followed by David Ricardo. Mr.
Smith finally got so annoyed that he summoned a bobby, as 
British policemen are called, and had Mr. Ricardo arrested.
Tins later became known as the Louisiana Purchase. ^ .
Upon his release from gaol, as a British jail is called, Mr.
Ricardo reported to his parole officer, Thomas Robert Malthus.
They soon became fast friends, and one night over a game of 
whist they invented the stock exchange, or chutney, as it is 
called in England.
Well sir, wi,th the British having, you might say, a corner on 
economics, the French decided that they wanted some eco
nomics too. Being, however, a proud nation, they refused 
simply to borrow British economics, but insisted on inventing 
their own. At first they tried using the truffle hound os a medium 
of exchange. When this proved less than satisfactory, they 
switched to pomade. Discouraged by this second disappointmcnt, they finally shrugged and said, "Oh, who carcs about 
economics anyhow? and returned to the guillotine and Maurice 
Chevalier.
Amcrica, I am pleased to report, had much better success with 
economics. Our early merchants quickly broke down economics 
into its two major categoriescoins and folding moneyand 
today, as a rcsul t of thcirwisdom, we can all enjoy the automatio 
toll station.
Well sir, I could go on and on about this fascinating subject, 
but I know youre all in a tearing hurry to rush out and sign j
up for Econ I. So I will leave you now with two kindly words A
of farewell: G reshams Law. & mm snuJm&a
* * *
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, are tobacconist*} ^
not economists. But this much toe know about supply and. 
demand: you demand full flavor in a filter cigarette; ic* 
supply itMarlboro!

---------------------------------------------------

W<*Mdar. February 1*, 1964  CARNEGIK TARTAX  Pce 9
Dukes Defeat Carnegie Tech; 
Score For Last Contest Is 79-59
Tech Tartans couldnt avoid a Duquesne victory on Sat
urday, but they avoided a Duquesne fan-satisfying rout. Con
scious game-slowing passing techniques enabled the Tartans 
to return home from the Field House with only a 79-59 defeat 
from which to recover, after bidding Duquesne farewell in
the final meeting of the two*-----------------------------------------------
schools following the official Tech by the Dul;es as Borkowski and
announcement of the split.
The pace of the game was set 
within the first 3 minutes and 13. 
seconds as the Tartans were un 
able to follow through on their 
passing for scores or, until two 
minutes gone in the game, even a 
shot. The Dukes Ross, Lautch. 
and Somerset combined for  five 
point lead on a follow-up on a 
Morrison missed shot. Not. until 
after Somerset had added another 
point, matched by a free throw 
conversion by Jules Borkowski. 
could Tech convert a field goal 
with a hook from underneath by 
Metz.
Behind 6-4, Tech. recovered 
some of its composure with a foul 
shot and drive by George MeGeary, a short jump by Metz, and 
a free throw by Borkowski, while 
the Dukes could manage only four 
points, to tie the score at 10-10 
with 12:27 to go in the half. The 
Tartans could not maintain their 
tie, however, as Cuff, Cigalis, 
Somerset and Willard pulled the 
Dukes to a 18-10 lead they never 
again were to relinquish.
Tech maintained their philos 
ophy of waiting for'short shots or 
drives, but by the half they had 
found only fourteen more points 
available to diminish a few of the 
thirty-three Duquesne had gained 
on foul shots and jump shots of 
fifteen feet'or better.
Willard started the second half 
by converting a hook t give th 
Dukes a twenty-one point margin 
and convince both gides of the 
gathering gloom for Tech fans. 
McGeary lowered the spread to 
nineteen again on a layup but his 
score was not enough to initiate a 
confirmed Tartan offense of sufficent ferocity to overcome the 
Dukes scoring.
Although the spread between 
scores by eithr'team was lowered 
noticeably from the mistake-rid
den first half, the actual point 
spread changed little. The Tartans 
were able to match scoring spirits
Tech Tips Dukes 
In Rifle Match; 
Chance For 2nd
While the Tartans basketball 
team was being whipped by the 
Duquesne Dukes, Carnegie's rifle 
team took the measure of Du
quesne by a score of 1386 to 1375.
Mike Knepley, Phil Meyers, 
and Bob Fritz shot their usual 
280 scores; but the rest of the 
Tartans choked on the small Du
quesne range and could do no 
better than 271.
Knepley was high scorer for 
Tech with a 99 prone, 96 kneel
ing, and 88 standing for a total 
of 283. Phil Meyers followed with 
a 281 and Bob Fritz was right 
behind at 280.
After these three, Carnegies 
scores were rather poor. Schlitt, 
Burdick, Mersel, Damberg, Mc
Cormick, and Arnold, all blew 
up in the standing position after 
shooting well in the prone and 
kneeling. Joe Schlitt and Jim 
Burdick each shot 271 to round 
out the Tartan scoring.
The Tartans had better shape 
up if they expect to beat Alle
gheny anw W & J tokeep their 
hopes alive for sccond place in 
the southern division of the con
ference.
Niedra led the non-wilting at 
tack, but Somerset, was providing 
the same leadership for Duquesne, 
and neither team could gain.
With 7:24 still remaining, Bor 
kowski committed his fifth  foul 
and joined a cold Ray Morrison 
on the Tech bench. From there on 
both coaches substituted liberally. 
Chester Reft and Don Keefer op
posed the Duke leaders Brokos 
and Schipani with little change 
in the pattern.
Tn the final minute Reft and 
Keefer narrowed the margin back 
to twenty points with eight 
straight points between them after 
the score had built up in the 
Dukes favor. Their assistance was 
not sufficient to overcome the final 
79-59 victory, however,marking 
the fifth straight defeat of the 5- 
10 Tartan team.
Wednesday night the Tartans 
will unveil their final assault on 
an even season in an inter-class 
game with Washington and Jef
ferson at the Tech gyrn. 
CARNEGIE TECH
f;a tg ita ft reb ptsMorrison .........2 0 0 0 (Borkowski ....13 5 12 8 'Metz ...................9 3 4 1 11McGeary ..........3 3 11 "4Neidra :.............8 4 3 2 iFoels ...................5 2 3 11Cupps .................5 1 2 0 (Newell ................1 0 0  1Johnson .............0 0 0 0 CWerronen ......0 0 0 0 (Keefer ..............3 2 I. 0 1Reft .....................2 2 2 2 2Thomas ..............2 0 0 0 1
DUQUESNE
Somerset Willard .. Cegalis .. Schipani .
Totals 60 S 20 Zi S Halflime: Duquesne 43, Tech 24. Duquesne shot 33.7%; Tech .41.5%
Swimmers Succumb to the 'Rock'; 
68-27 Score Belies Tech Strength
By Bill Hartlep 
Last Saturday the Carnegie Tech swimming team lost 
their fifth meet of the Season at the hands of a powerful 
Slippery Rock team. The 68-27 loss does not, however, offer 
a true picture of the meet, for the Tartans were not beaten 
badly in any event. A few breaks in their favor would have
meant a Techx victory. The ma-0------------------------------------------; 
jority of the events in the meet
were decided by' under 2 seconds 
and some were as close as 0.5 
seconds.
One of these was the 200-yard 
free-style. Tech swimmers, Weiss 
and Andrews, led for 180 yards of 
the. race, only to see Sterling and 
Zuti of Slippery Rock slip by 
them in the last ten yards. It was 
the same story in the 50-yard 
free-style as Tartan Pete Hutter 
was beaten by Rocket Larry Garley by seven-tenths of a second 
Diving followed an increasingly 
familiar pattern, for although 
John Bennett of Tech put in his 
best performance of the' season, 
Rocket Ingersoll nosed him out by 
less than one point. Ingersoll and 
his teammate Scran were given 
gifts of first and second in the 
event by the diving judge.
Unique Event
Perhaps the most unique event 
of the meet was the 200-yard 
butterfly. Bob Scholler of The 
Rock took an early lead in th 
race, but Tartan Bill Burdett 
managed to stay close behind. 
Then Scholler began to tire and 
Burdett slowly closed the gap. 
Scholler saw him with about five 
yards left in the race, and to the 
astonishment of everyone, broke 
into a stroke which looked'like 
combination of butterfly, breast 
stroke, and doggy-paddle, and 
was as illegal as a six-legged race 
horse. Oddly enough the judge did 
not see fit to disqualify him. Be
fuddled Bill Burdett settled for 
second place.
Later in the meet, under very 
similar circumstances, Tech lost 
its only hope for a first place in an 
individual event. The 200-yard 
breast stroke had just begun when 
Tartan swimmers on the bench, 
including this reporter, noticed 
that the drains had been opened 
and the water level of the pool 
was slowly lowering. This caused 
the water to become quite choppy,1 
making it more difficult to swim.
High Scorers
As a result, Tech Captain Len 
Lester; who was swimming the
200-yard breast stroke, swallowed 
a mouthful of water in the last 
ten yards and found it a little 
difficult in finishing. Rocket 
swimmer McNany sped on forthe 
first place on his way to thank 
the Slippery Rock State College 
Janitorial Staff for 5 easy points.
High scorers for th Tartans 
were Captain Lester with 6 points 
and Andrews and Cotsworth, each 
with 4. High men for "the Rock 
were Gartley with ill/z and Sterl
ing and Scholler, each with 10.
Tech swimmers' are looking for
ward to the Penn-Ohio meet later 
in the year for another-chance at 
the Slippery Rock team under dif
ferent conditions.
All-Pen 
cartridges fit 
all these pens
Guaranteed for
 Sheaffer
 Parker
 Esterbrooh
 Wearever
 Venus 
 Eversharp
For tworpen studentsfor those with pen-giving relatives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges iniour present cartridge pen! )ont walk a mile for a cartridge. Come in and get All-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable Black, Peacock Blue, Jet Black, Cardinal Ked, Blue* Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
O leP kqf eP w leP Dqe
CIT 
Book Store
Niedra drives around opponent
 Photo by Walter Graymaa
Setween Classes or at Study Break ...
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3916 FORBES AVENUE
... and..,
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7910 FENN AVE.
BOAC shows you the Europe the European students know-from *1079 for 42 days.
inquiring minds and the fun-minded will both enjoy the 
11 BOAC itineraries specially designed for students* 
You visit little-known Alpine and Yugoslav villages as 
well as the Grand Tour classics. Heres what your tour price includes. . ^
 Serious cultural, economic and governmental briefings.
 Oxford and Cambridge graduate-student tour leaders. Shakespeare at Stratford, Salzburg marionettes, Edinburgh Military Tattoo.
 Evenings with European students at Tivoli, Munich Hofbrau. and the Left Bank.
 Independent leisure in the great cities. Most meals.
 All hotels, prices based on double occupancy of rooms You get there by BOAC Rolls-Royce 707 Fan-Jet Travel in Europe by bus, train, steamer and air.
See your Travel Agent or nearest BOAC officeand send in the coupon.
^Including Economy Class round-trip jet air fare from New York, subject to change.
Dept. BE-173-A 
530 Fifth Ave., New York 3$ 
Please send ti your free brochure <
Student Tours. 
NAME
My Travel Agent ls:_

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 19, 1964
Tech Easily Defeats Fenn 71-24; 
Kent State Beats Tartans 68-27
by Bill Hartlep
The Carnegie Tech Swimming Team created a new 
Golden Rule at the Fenn Pool in Cleveland last Saturday: 
Do unto Fenn as Kent State has done unto you. Friday 
afternoon at Kent State, the Tartahs had been severely stomped in a score of 68-27; on Saturday fternoon it was Fenns turn as the -Tartans stampeded^-----;-------------^7-----------------
to a 71-24 win over them.
It was an easy day for Kent 
State. Friday, for they took all. 
but one first place in the meet, 
and subsequently never relin
quished the lead. Techs only 
winner was captain Len Lester 
who won the 200 yard breast' 
stroke. Len shared the high point 
honors of the day with Geary 
Andrews, who salvaged two sec
onds, one in the 200 yard free
style, and one' in the 500 yard 
freestyle. T e c h freshman, Pete 
Hutter, was close behind Leri and 
Geary with a second in the 100 
yard freestyle and ? third in the 
50 yard freestyle. High point men 
for Kent were Greg Kannel with 
11% points and Don Hunston 
with 10 points.
First Relay Win 
This devastating loss did not, 
however, hamper the Tartans on 
Saturday at Fenn, for they took 
first in every event but the free
style relay. It was a day for per
sonal scoring records. The Tech 
medley relay won for the first 
time this season. Tartan antique, 
George Weiss, proved that there 
were a few good miles left in 
him as he took his - initial first 
place of the year in the 200 yard 
freestyle. Last .years top scaring 
man, Geary Andrews, finishing less 
than a second behind, gave Tech
IM. Basketball 
Season Begins
The 1964 intramural basketball 
season got underway with the top 
seeded teams rolling to easy vic
tories in the first round of play.'
The current champs, the Grad 
Eagles, defeated th Dorm-Tro
jans S 64-34 and DU B 74-17 
with a very balanced scoring at.tack. Other games in the Warners 
League found BTP easily whip
ping the Dorm-Trojans S 49-28, 
PiKa beating a scrappy ATO B 
team 41-3, and SN taking th 
Whales 40-19.
The big Grad Eagles are the 
favorites in this league. Their size 
and balance should be too much 
for anyone else except perhaps 
BTP.
DU, Civils on Top
The Lakers League is not so 
one-sided. DU A has a fine 
shooter in All-School John Pavlik 
and good rebounders in Bednarz 
and Robling. In their first two 
games, DU wasted BTP "T 67-8 
and KS B" 56-10.
The Civil Hammers with Mel 
Ramey and TX-Tech player Phil 
Rizo should make it a real twoway battle. They gave evidence 
of this by clobbering SAE 57-22.
The Met Grads beat the DormTrojans A 41-31 but didnt look 
strong enough to beat either the 
Grads or the Civils. Neither did 
TDP A althuogh they whipped 
KS 38-18. SAE beat BTP T 45- 
21 in the only other game played.
In the Celtics League, the Finks 
B" seem the strongest team. 
Rupnik, Wisniewski, arid Wincko 
give the Finks an attack that will 
be hard to stop. They beat the 
Dunkers 55-33 and. the Com
muters 65-37 in their first two 
games.
Paced by Frank Oliver, ATO 
had no intentions of letting the 
Finks walk away with things. ATO 
beat BTP B 29-22 in their open
er. PKT, paced by Larry Lang, 
whipped the Commuters 46-33 
while a tough Grad Physics team 
defeated KS A 38-22.
Dorm-Trojans Should Win 
Dorm-Trojans, hot behind 
d Eagles in the All-Sports 
(continued on page 11)
a 1-2 sweep in the; event. The 
Tartans went on to 'sweep five 
more events in themeet. Pete 
Hutter and Alan Wolff, both 
freshman, swept the 50 yard and 
.the 100 yard freestyle. It was, 
however, a frustrating day for 
Hutter. Pete was shooting for 
school records in both the 50 and 
100 yard freestyle, but cost him 
a first place in the 100 yard free. 
In the 100, Hutter was far ahead 
of the pack,, and well under the 
record time, when he missed the 
wall .in a flip-turn. He had to 
retreat 5 yards, touch the wall, 
then swim on again catchirtg 
Fenhs lead man,J but failing to 
recover the lead from Tartan, Al 
Wolff.
In the 500 yard freestyle Techfs 
Bill Cotsworth chalked up his 
initial first, with grand-dad Weiss 
close behind taking the second. 
Team captain Len Lester was in 
exceptionally fine condition, win
ning the 200 yard individual med
ley and taking a second in the 200 :
yard breast stroke, part of Techs 
last sweep, in which Dave Specht 
was the winner.
Other first place winners were: 
Dave Kiefer, who put on an out
standing show in his home town, 
winning the 200 yard baskstrolce 
and swimming on the winning
medley relay, John Bennett, who 
set a personal record in the div
ing with a one judge score of 
63.8 points, and Bill Burdett, who 
won the 200 yard butterfly with 
a time of' 2:40.5. Frank Wyman 
took second in the butterfly to 
complete a 1-2 sweep, and third 
in the 200 yard individual medley.
There was a four-way tie for 
high point honors among .Lester, 
Hutter, Weiss, and Wolff, all with 
8 points. These four scored more 
points together against Fenn, than 
the whole Tech squad did against
Kent State. Second place point 
honors were also divided four 
ways among Kiefer, Specht, Bur
dett, and Costworth, all with 6% 
points. High men for Fenn were 
Hoenes with 5% points, and Al
berts and Aiiderson, both 3 points.
The win against Fenn gives 
Tech a 2 and 6 win-loss record 
with, five meets remaining in the 
season. The next meet is at West 
Virginia on February 19. The next 
home meet is on February 29 > 
against Western Reserve at the 
Skibo Pool.
HAVE A NLIS 
on romKicKn e;
If youre about to get your electrical, mechanical 
or industrial engineering degree  sign up today 
with your Placement Officer for an interview oh 
the above date with a representative of West 
Penn Power. If you want a career and 
not just a job, sign up and learn all 
about this engineering-minded com
pany where you can surge ahead.
WEST PENN POWER COMPANY
Gn(rJ Yr..c OPssJm(tPuc CsJJm.gnJrn
NBR1187WD1875 SAUUE8 A Y,MF V,,M 9,6UA84 T
Good news 
for aficionados of medium-cubed V-8s 
who prefer to remain shiftless!
Four-on-the-floor is fine but not everyones cup of tea. If 
youre an automatic devotee, we think you'll be cheered by 
what Ford Motor Company transmission engineers have 
designed in the way of exciting goodies to go with our 
new hotter V-8 mills in the medium-displacement class. 
It's a spanking new 3-speed automatic drive that adds 
more hustle without extra muscle in Comet, Fairlane 
and Ford models for 64. Among its many virtues: less 
avoirdupois . . . fewer parts . . .smoother take-offs . . , 
up to 35% more go in Low . . . extra braking in downhill 
work.. . . whisper-quiet in Neutral . . . quarterback-style 
passing performance!
The men at Ford who design such intricacies as transmis
sions are not just walking slide rules or talking computers-. 
Theyre men who get excited about cars and the fun of
driving them. They enjoy meeting challenges like Design 
a new automatic drive with 4-speed stick-shift perform-1 
ance built right in." Frankly, they are among the most 
avid car buffs around and it shows n their workl 
More proof of the exciting things that happen at Ford'; 
Motor Company to bring brighter ideas and better-built 
cars to the American Road,
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road. Dearborn, Michigan 
YSAS SFOUFSSAUFO 9SLNSATYUC 
vAUFOT MRE vSIISAdvEU9I GLAT

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 1, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  F*e. U
 Photo by Walter Crayman
IM bowler q*s for that all-important' strike
pveh.rJu C.nellm FsnP
I Beta Theta Pi edged out Sigma Nu on Saturday 2464- 
I 2435 in one of the Closest matches of t{i year. Delta Tau 
I Delta romped over the Dorm-Trjoans 2319-2197, and in doing 
I so set the stage for the first all-fraternity finals in four years. 
I The Betas will be out to run their string of bowling champ-i onships to three in a row.
CsJJ Tpnps ytpmfePsm IsfiB)d Ql
Penn State, brought a little too much offense and board 
strength to Tech gym last Thursday night to allow the Tar
tans, to gain a sorely needed victory after Tech lost to 
Pitt, 108-75, Westminster, 93-54, and,St. Vincents, 69-61, in 
their last three games. State Sophomores Carver Clinton and 
Ray Saunders, and Junior Bob^'
Weiss combined their efforts to 
overcome the offensive punch of 
Techs Ray Morrison and George 
McGeary push the game to an 
easy 76-51 Lion victory.
Morrison got the tip-off but 
Penn State got the .first basket on 
a foul line jump shot by Saunders. 
An Andy Niedra: jump shot and a 
Morrison layup provided the only 
Tartan scoring in the error-plag
ued first quarter, while Saunders, 
Ron Avillion and Weiss unveiled 
their particular scoring aptitudes 
and board work to push the score 
to 10-4 with five minutes.
Farther Advantage
Five minutes later, with Jules 
Borkowski making , his first ap
pearance since reinjuring his 
shoulder, Weiss and Avillion had 
furthered the Fenn State advant
age to 20-IX despite the driving 
of McGeary, and the long shots of 
Morrison and Borkowski.
Despite McGearys continued 
driving underneath for layups, 
State maintained its rebuounding 
advantage over the shorter Tartan 
teamfl The tip-ins Clinton con
verted with his high jumping tac
tics increased States lead. Al
though the Nittany  Lions were 
missing many of their foul shots, 
Clinton and Saunders were jump
ing to recover the rebounds and 
initiate a two-point scoring play, 
often by the long-jump, shots, of 
Weiss.
State Maintains Lead
Tech returned to a 38-21 deficit 
from the first, half and again got 
the tip on a peculiar jump during 
which McGeary jumped alone. 
State again got the first basket on 
-another tip-in by Clinton, again 
resolving the Tartans to accurate 
shooting on the State zone with 
little hope of rebounds on either 
the offensive or defensive boards. 
Five minutes through' the half, 
State had managed to maintain 
their lead of seventeen points at 
46-29 with ho variation.
Penn State remedied the stale
mate by pulling away to a 57-38 
lead with only ten minutes re
maining in the frame eliminating 
Tartan prosepcts for an upset victory over the visitors. Substitutes 
for both teams did little to even 
the score a sTech finished the re 
maining ten minutes passing to get 
jump snots and opening a spot 
from which Foels could score.
Tech never could provide con
tention for the taller State. team 
and withtheir 31,3% average 
from the floor compared the 
48% the visitors shot, were forced; 
to settle for a 76-51 defeat plus 
the temporary loss of Jeff Kalin 
on a charge by a State .guard, 
whom Kalin was attempting to
stop.
CARNEGIE TECH
tea tg if to tbs pta
Werronen .........1.0 0 0 0 0Niedra ................7 2 1. 1 8 5Kalin ..................8 0 0 0 10 OMorrison ... . 22 7 6 4  5 18Foels ....................6 3 1 0 0 6Borkowski .....5 2 2 1 4 5McGeary ......6 3' 5-5 5 11MelZ ....................6 2 0 0 4 4Beit ....................o 0 2 2 4 2Cupps ................0 0. . 1.0 1 0
VI 19 18 41 I
PENN STATE
AviUon ...........7.-2Saunders .,,.:10 7Clinton . .......10 .6Donato -...........8 1Weiss ............19 10Hoover ........6 1'Malinchak ;,,..4 2Roseboro ........4 3Stepanau6ky ... 2 1
91 94 XI
The Betas and the Sns battled 
right down to the wire. Keith 
rce doubled in the tenth frame 
lo completely tie up the match 
with only two men on each team 
left to bowl in the final frame of 
ihe last game. Steve Kornblatt 
and team captain Bob Dervaes 
both doubled at this point for . the 
i Belas to give them their 29 pin 
victory over SN. The SNs had, 
also lost a heart-breaker to the 
^Bcias during the regular season.
1 For the Betas, Steve Kornblatt 
was high with' a 537, followed by 
Roy Gingery with a 535. George 
Kali held the top man honors for 
SN with a 521.
The Delts had no trouble at 
all with the Dorm-Trojans, who 
wore bowling with only four men.
. The Delts low man each game 
became the Dorms fifth man. High 
for the Delts was Suchan with 
a 518 and for the Dorms Fitch 
with a 503.
The finals next Saturday prom
ise to be a close battle. Both teams 
have shown that they, can .turn in 
good scores. The Delts led the 
league during the regular season 
^ with an 830 average, while the 
Betas had an 802 average. Dur
ing the playoffs, the Betas haye 
averaged 831,. the Delts 767. The 
advantage must be given the 
Betas, as they have had the same 
team members for the past two 
years, and are experienced in 
pressure bowling.
I.M. Basketball 
Season Begins
(continued from page 10)
trophy race, are. co-favorites, with 
SN in the Royals League...The 
Dorm-Trojans are fast and good 
yand they showed their power in 
79-30 pasting of the Finks A. 
SN has a big, well-balanced 
team and are a definite threat. 
They whipped the E. E. Grads 53- 
18 and the Finks 69-22 in their 
opening games.
In other games in the Robals 
League, the E. E. Grads clobbered 
TDP B 42-19, as'did th Grad 
Hawks 62-13. BSE beat DTD 20- 
M in one of the lowest scoring 
Jgames so far this year.
This fet.x (s pis mpnPp of something " " vUOb
If you are completing your BS or MS degree in EE, ME or 
Physics, AC-Milwaukee's "Career Acceleration Program" is 
the perfect way to launch an exciting career . . . and keep it 
moving! You will work on important inertial guidance and 
navigational system projects for Titan II and III, the Apollo 
Navigation-Guidance System, B-52C&D BombingNavigation 
Systems and other guidance and navigation projects for space 
vehicles, missiles and aircraft.
In AC's "Career Acceleration Program," you will spend one 
hour daily in formal class work, the remaining seven hours on 
a specific project. Courses include: ADVANCED THERMO*1 
DYNAMICS, INERflAL INSTRUMENTS, DIGITAL COMPUTERS,1 
GUIDANCE EQUATIONS, BASIC ASTRONOMY. TELEMETRY 
and DATA ANALYSIS, plus mathematics and undergraduate^ 
disciplines, as required.
In addition, AC-Milwaukee's Tuition Refund Ran enables you 
to improve your skills through additional education.You will be 
reimbursed for all tuition costs on satisfactorily completing 
college-level course of study when undertaken voluntarily. 
AC also offers an "in-plant" evening educational program for, 
additional technical improvement..
Positions also exist for recent graduates at AC's two advanced 
concepts laboratories:  *
BOSTONAdvanced Concepts Research and Development 
On-the-Job Training ProgramAC's Boston Laboratory It.
engaged'in research projects in avionics, space navigation and 
inertial instrument development.. This laboratory works from 
theory to prototype, advancing the state of the art in navigation 
and guidance.
LOS ANGELESAdvanced Concepts Research and Develop' 
ment On-the-Job Training ProgramACs Los Angeles La bora 
tory is occupied with advanced guidance research for space 
vehicles and ballistic missiles, plus research and development 
'in special purpose digital computers.
For further information on AC's ''Career Acceleration Pro* 
gram," contact your placement office or write Mr. G. F. Raasch^ 
Director of Scientific .& Professional Employment, Dept 5753,
AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Milwaukee 
1, Wisconsin.?  . 'PhDs, please note: Positions are available In all three AC. 
locations for PhDs, depending on concentration of study and 
area of interest. You are invited to contact Mr. Raasch for 
further information.
CAMPUS AREA INTERVIEWS - Mar. 4
AC SPARK PLUG'
THE ELECTRONICS DIVISION 
OF GENERAL MOTORS
MILWAUKEE ' LOS ANGELES i BOSTON  FLINT,
An quat Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

>,ft 18__CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 19, 1964
Hollywood Screen Writers Give 
Writing Awards to Students
(continued from page 8) 
be deposited with the Guild regis
tration Service and only the other 
Will be read by the contest judges 
or anyone else. On the cover of 
both scripts should appear the 
student's full name, university and 
personal address.
Manuscripts are to be-received 
at the Guild, office not later than 
midnight, August 1, 1964, and the; 
awards will be announced at a 
press deception on Thursday, Oc
tober 1, 1964. In the event that the 
contestant transfers from one uni
versity to another during the in
terim betwen th two academic 
years, his entry will be credited to 
the original institution and an
nounced as such.
The reason for limiting this con
test to graduate students is in 
order to reward and assist those 
students who are most likely to 
take advantage of the opportunity 
to become professional screen
writers.
Undergraduates, though they 
may well have equal talent, fre
quently have not yet made, up
their minds even as to the type of 
career they, wish to pursue.
It may seem strange that the 
awards are to be presented at the 
beginning of the academic year 
rather than at the end. One pur
pose is to give the contestant add
ed time during part of the summer 
months to complete or refine his 
screenplan. Preferably he would 
be allowed the entire summer, but 
the judges can spare only so many 
hours from their profession and, 
if the entries are as many as hopefor, the two-month period from 
August 1 to October 1 will afford 
little enough time for a thorough 
and just comparison.
1 : ' ; ft) Jag League Basketball Begins 
Team Plays for E^ertairnnent
jag League basketball got under way along with the 
regular I:M. play this week. Members of this league play sole
ly for entertainment,' as i evidenced by the strange scores 
turned in by the various teariisr. . '
The wildest game played this week was probably thC -^ 
one between BSRs J and the *
Killers  .which BSRs J" took 
by a score of 113-36.
SAEs J team beat last years 
champs, the Whales, 41-40, but 
lost to the Marauders 26724. In 
the only other game in the League,
ATOs jag team and the Phi-Clods 
set a precedent by playing to a 
28-28 tic. With four quarters com
pleted, the score at 28-28, and 
other teams waiting .to play, ATO 
an dthe Psi-Clods decided to let 
the score stand.
You are high over the Potomac River just 12 miles 
from the White House... and viewing 186 acres 
of extraordinary research activity
Of course, from this height you can't see much de
tail, which makes the imposing expanse of the two main 
buildings all the more intriguing. Perhaps you can guess 
their functions, but it's also what you can't see (and 
this is summarized in the.adjoining column) that makes 
the David Taylor Model Basin a completely unique fun
damental and applied research organization  and a 
place you should seriously consider for your career 
as a professional scientist or engineer. As the Navys 
advanced facility for research into submarine, surface 
ship, aircraft and missile design concepts, the Model 
Basin can offer the young graduate certain specific 
opportunities hard to find anywhere else.
1. Reach the $10,000 to $12,000 level WITHIN 4 VEARS.
2. Take graduate courses for advance degree with Navy 
help.
3. Gain diversified RDT & E experience with the best 
equipment anri facilities of their kind.
4. Work on research projects of recognized national im
portance.
5. Attain recognized professional stature sooner, at 
which point a number of futures are available.
Watch for the David Taylor Model Basin interviewer 
when he visits your campus, or contact Mr. S. Di Maria 
directly for information.
Washington, D.C. 20007An Equal Opportunity Employer
(D The Washington Circumferential Highway allows speedy ac
cess to best suburban communities in the District of Columbia, 
Maryland, and Northern Virginia.
1 HYDROMECHANICS LABORATORY facilities Include this HighSpeed Towing Basin almost 3/5 OF A MILE LpNG,50 feet wide, 
and 20 feet deep. This Laboratory is concerned with speed, sta
bility, control and seakeeping qualities of floating or submerged 
naval designs,, and with fundamental naval hydrodynamics.
 APPLIED MATHEMATICS LABORATORY facilities Include the 
latest, largest computer systems, and feature the LARC, the 
IBM 7090, and a 1401. This Is BuShips primary computing facilfty, working on engineering, research logistics, and numerical 
methods. Work carried on here involves mathematic simulation 
of the life cycle of nuclear reactors; automatic calculation of 
ship lines; and applications or computers to management prob
lems.
<D In thl g -nt new M ntuvnr rv nd p n plm f 11/ 
both ft 1 nd frc ur ? n d* n b tc t i under yp t le condition You rr y o /oh It l the H qh pe^d Ph mrre) Dvl on il L npl y n Id Vrp n
\j/ ACC0DYNAMIC LABORATORY ht I llts In I o<c I 
wind tinnel r ntJng fr m ub onL through h p r one at
M eh 10 hlrh ro u id to dtUrm und I npro e t Ile h
b 11/ c nini nd he t tr n fer eh r et ri II uf h llcopt r 
VT0L ipir onir r r ft mi il ctc Arfo# tudlcs il o
Invola bomb db gn bridge Iru ture a rcr It U bjlenc \ li n
irro ch g carri or nd oil r govtrnm nt d pi I it p obI m
Vj*/ The unque STRJCTURAL Mi'M/NC1' IAB0RT0ltY f clfl 
tic at C rde rfc r the now pr u e I l> wl h p r nit tli 
I / Ly mt r of I rgi t uctjr I mdl of tlic hull due
t.re. lor deep d...ng _l.m_r.ne_ _nJ dc-p__.e-e-wh ,eh.w,w
to reach all ocean depths. Additional Structural Mechanics Labo
ratory facilities are scattered throughout the 186 acres, and 
Include a tridimensional Statie-Load Frame, a Pentagonal Test 
Pond, Explosion Pits, and a 600,000-Pound Universal Testing 
Machine. With these facilities, Laboratory scientists and engl* 
neers conduct studies aimed at Improving the hull structure 
and increasing the resistance of the Navy's ships to enemy at* 
tack. This requires development of fundamental, theoretical ap* 
proaches of load and response, and development of engineering 
solutions based on the Increased understanding. A substantial 
portion of the ship protection research Is carried out at the 
Underwater Explosions Research Division of this Laboratory lo
cated at Portsmouth, Virginia.
The ACOUSTICS AND VIBRATION LABORATORY was just 
established to Intensify research and development of ships of 
Improved detection capability, and reduced vibrations and under* 
water sound output. Fundamental and applied research In hydro 
dynamics, structural acoustics, mechanical vibrations, and signal 
processing are supplemented by conduct of acoustic and vibra
tion trials, and development of acoustic and vibration Instru
mentation.
David Taylor Model Basin J U.S. Department of the Navy <[
To staff thece five operating Laboratories, w* ar. mfc. 
college graduate* with BS, MS, or PhD dvnrrwm In 
Aeroipaco, Electrical, Electronic, Mechanical or Structural Engineering; in Applied Mcciianlce, Mathematics, 
Fhmlca, and Naval Architect.
