Men must be at liberty to 
gay in print whatever they 
have in mind to say, provided it wrongs no one. .
CHARLES A. DANA3TKc Farnejie ^Tartan
Todays Editorials 
We Answer Mr, Hearst 
A Vast Contribution
VOL. 29, .NO.; 10CARNEGIE IiNSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOV. 27, 1934
Carnegie Day 
jervice Held 
|n Music Hall 
This Morning
phi Kappa Phi, Tau Beta 
Pi, Eta Kappa Nu 
Call Members
WRITER FOR LONDON 
riMES IS SPEAKER
Scholarship* Cups Awarded
Sigma Nu Wins Fraternity 
Scholarship Cup With 2.331
Beta Sigma Rho 0.008 Behind; Alpha Kappa Psi 
'Heads Sororities for Fourth Consecutive Year; 
Boss Hall, Forbis Halt Also L.ad Lists
Caraegie Day. Esere/ses were 
this morning at 10:46 In Car* 
^Vlegie Music Hall. All classes were 
^aaspended from 10:20 to 1:30.
$$ Sir Wilmott Harsant Lewis, 
'^Washington correspondent of the 
^London Times, delivered the prlnSiicipal address.
Honora ry Calls
Thelma M, Shelly '35
College of Engineer" Wllllani E. Bayers '35 
Alan C. 'Byers '35 Charls E. Crede 35 Morris Fisher '35 Robert M. Gerster '35 Francis V. Giolma 3f
Robert A. McConnell '35 Willard J. Osborn '35 . W. James Sharbaugh 35 College of Fine Arts ' Helen M. Bruce '35 Francis OC. Church '35 Dane -D. Morgan 35 Ri|th Schoenberger 35
ETA KAPPA NU : Robert C. Coblentz. '36 -T-Owan~-C^Coho.!36-i'-.--- v."Rb'ert Hi' Deahl '36  Paul H.; Dltzler 36 'J 'Nelson Jones '36 John C. Latham >36 Robert C. McMaster 36 Peter H. Wyekoff 36 ' John B. Rice 35 . Harold J. Corning 35 Michael Kovacevlch 35 Francis Mertz'^5 ' William A. Meszaros '35 Michael Voytilla '35
TAU BETA >1 Richard W. Dennison >36 Lawrence W. Ingold 36 Jack E. McKee '36 Donald L, Ashbaugh 35 William E. Bayers '35 John E, Born *3$Harry. E. Fitzgerald '35 James W. Herron '35 Arthur R Kommet '35 Harry L. King *35
Frank E. Rath '35 Harold A. Thomas '35 John W. WagenseH '35 Robert E. Warren 35
Three hohbraries made 'their ml-annu&l calls. They ' .were: Phi Kappa Phi, national scholastic irv, Tau Beta. Pi, national honorary, and Eta
Hanna '3E>, to the two engineering
Charles 'Watkins, acting president of Carnegie during the absence of Dr. Baiter, awarded tH fraternity, sorority, and dormitory scholarship cups.
special section of the M$usic Mall, in the orchestra circle, is reserved for the holders of scholar* in recognition o th'eiv scholastic achievement. ' '
Secretarial Jobs 
Available inTenn.
Competitive Examinations 
Will Given Soon
Word has been received bythe Bureau of Recommendations that there are openings for women sec* rolarles with the Tennessee Valley Authority.- Competitive.* examinations under the direction of Miss Edlm Winchester, Department of Secretarial : Studies, will be held in the very near future to deter-' tnlne eligible candidates.
Yh Authority representi'ff iiuBt construction project in the Ten'Our preliminary requirement consists of $ speed;.test inst'raght' conv wnri,_____________i*____J.the' typewriter andcopy .work
irking shorthand Picant is considered for' appolntlas not demonstrated his _ , . - ~~.,ity to tyne at a sneed of l06S than sixtv words a minute ot and to take shorthand at from to 120 words a minute or over.r
,accompanied by a neat, rapid, and curate transcription."- says. C.- L. ic*ey Director oC.Employmenl
The Sigma Nu fraternity with an average of 2.331 heads the list of fraternity scholarship ratings for the year 1933-34. and will bold the new fraternity scholarship cup for one year It was announced at the Carnegie Day exercises today; Awards were also made at this time to the highest ranking mens dormitory, womens sorority and women's dormitory.
The new cup l*s been given by Ph| Kappa Phi, all campus scholastic honorary fraternity.
wiucn was awarded permanent pi session of a cup lostyear after leading for four consecutive years, ranked In second place,
2.227, were, listed third and fourth respectively.Last year the Sigma Nu fraterly was in eighth place having an erage of 3.57. To be given the cup permanently it will be necessary for Sigma Nu to lead the list Ice in the noxt four years.
Add Provisions' 
To Constitution
Arts Senate Votes No Girl 
Can Be Class PresidentAlpha Kappa Psi which won per* manent possession of a sorority scholarship cup last year lead, the' six Carnegie sororities for the fourth consecutive year with an average of 2.69. Gamma Gamma Gamma and Phi Delta Mu ranRed in
ity listed average of 2.36.
BossHall with an Average of 2.229 ranked first in the list of men's dormitories. Scobcll 
wtffAriri. no Msecond and third respectively.
The leader in the list of the mens dormitories was Forbes Hall, which had an average of 2.38. Second and third places weut to Mellon Hall, 2.29. and Cedar Hall, 2.25.The first three sororities In the 1932-33 ratings were Alpha Kappa
Boss Hall, and McGill Hall ranked In that order In the men's dorms listing, and the leading r won
Closed Rushing 
 Ends Tomorrow
C o n t a cting Period Begins 
Next Monday at 4:30
The Arts Senat added 
visions to its constitution at its 
last meeting. The first wae that 
the president.of a class shallbe a 
an and the vice-president shall 
> a woman.
The second was that the. offices 
of vice-president of the Arts Sen
ate and vice-president of the senior class shall be considered as two separate offices. (Hitherlo these two offices had been combined inThese provisions were made in lieu of the recommendation of last years Student Council that thd senates of the various colleges revise their, constitutions paying particular attention to those questionswhich have been points o< <ntrovr.0y^n;-tUe;^aet.-.^:r^:f.ov. JLast .year the case aross where in a woman desired to run for th>/ presidency of her class tut was not peiiniLLed io because of precedent The first provision is being Incorporated into the copstltutlon
Ruth Nichols
Will Addregs 
Next Assembly
Famed Aviatrix to Tell 
Of Air Experiences 
During Career
SET NEW ALTITUDE 
UECORD IN 1932
Founded AviationMagaziuej 
Participated in Major  
Flying Competitions
Ruth Nichols, nationally known 
aviatrix, will speak at the monthlv 
assembly to be held next Tuesdav 
in the Carnegie Music Hall at 11? 30 
. m. She will speak, on a topic re
lating to aviation.
Miss Nichols was the first Inter
nationally licensed woman bydr 
airplane pilot. She is the .only 
woman to have held three worl.d 
records in different classifications 
at tho same time. These 
'Womens Altitude Record, Speed Record, and the Long Dlstkn Record.
The altitude record : women for Diesel footors
to prevent enof thatcontroversy and to definitely establish Jlhe fact that wlyyeas women 'will'not be permitted to run for the presidency .of their class they will be assured the vice-presidency.
The second provision Is being intlon of women in the College o' Fine Arts is greater than that of the .men.- This .will .provide for
ceive the approval of Student Council before they cap be includ-ed lu the constitution.
SENIORS NOTICE
Today and, Wednesday
rushees at the time scheduled the dating cards sent out to all freshmen nnd the fraternities by the -Council.
Restricted Period Ends Tomorrow 
Tomorrow the restricted period closes at 9:00 p.' m. From then until 4:30 p. m., Monday, December 3, no fraternity may contact or speak to a rushec. This is the silence period. At 4:30 p. m., December 3, open ruBhing will prevail and last until 12:30 a. m., Sunday, December 9. No dates may be made directly by a fraternity: with a.freBhmaii before open Tushtnirperlbtt aiid^!o~bltfs'-mny 'be' given before'Tuesday, December 4, it 4:30 p. m.
4All rushees .must be out of the fraternity houses by 8:30 tomorrow evening and out of' the presence of fraternity men by 9 o'clock even though  Thursday is not a school day. This Is an exception to the rule of rushees being out of the presence of fraternity men by 9 o'clock on an evening before'a school day.
New Period Eliminates Troubles 
The new four day restricted rushing period should help the-fraternities and freshmen to avert many of the troubles* which arise each year through misunderstanding, pre-rushing, and Jaxlty of time for. .both the fraternity men and freshmen to judge best 1n ,thetr
present the charges to -the Couned to the Council, but there
3 nembr o! the CoSin.-
sphere Did You Get TliaSrChapeau-or 
Why All Good Plebes Leave Home!
Odd Creature Found Lurking 
. About Campus Wearing 
Weird Disguise
 "Who is yon fellow with queer 
pointed hat with plaid band .and 
black cravat? Why* does he doff 
said hat in reverence as lie passeth 
before yon fence? Let us approach ^nd question him as to his odd behavior. Never before have we observed such as this jon our campuo.
Oh; I say, my good fellow. J have been watching you for the past few minutes and wondering why you have donned such a. hat and behave as you do before this fence. Is It that you are a member .Qf.spfne .o.r)enjl cult and that these things'1 have some mystic significance associated with-them? Is, perhaps, that hat to.ward.oil the prola. member of-a mystic order. These things wae t ordered to wear and to do by the members of the most holy order c: Cutlasses, who have sworn that unless,! so do, their wrath wilt descend upon me and I will be subject to the most dreadful of ordeals. Now, sir, do you understand why I
low.io/contJnuft our wanderings add to remark that he who had said that truth is stranger than fiction must have been indeed gilted with divine Insight.
We might have started this with: 'Todav the ptebes throw . away
liars and a flnr Ox that would be.
Polish, German 
Dispute Reviewed
Safety Valve-members who expected to. hear a talk on the philosophy of Fascism, at their meeting lost week heard instead a historical sketch and travel talk on the Polish. Corridor by Dr. Dirks of Duquesne University.
Dr. Dirks, who has recently come to this country from Germany, confined his talk to a survey of the history and conditions of the Polish Corridor and an offer of inducements for visiting Germany.
He hesitated to express an opinion on anything thing at all, but he did say that, since Hitler has assumd" cohxrol oi "theGerman gov-- eminent, Polish-German relations
Speaking, of war, he said that the corridor may .be& cause.for future war, but a^ long as there is poverty, there will be no war.  When there is no'money and no credit, there can be no war. He" refused  to make a direct statement of any opinion,. and did .not answer satisfactorily many of. the questions asked him by membera of th'e gro'up.The Safely Valye plans to continue Itajenrv.es^of the various;, pro.pbsaJs. .fOc.*'_-Tiew'. social order, but has made no definite anangements for a speaker for its .next meet
ing.The next meeting will be at 12:30 on Thursday.: December 6 in Room 113. s Engineering Hall. It has been decided to change the hoUr from 11..0 to 12 0 bo that xncro people will be able It attend
made by Mls9 Nichols in 1932 when she soared to a height of -19,928 feet. She-also bolds-the wi West  to East Transcontinental Record as well as a number of inter-city speed laps.
Several college groups have been jyjchols. These iuclude vassar, .Mount Holyoke, Skidmore, University of New Hampshire, and Wellesley College.
Miss Nichols was one of the founders and editors of America1! first aviation magazine devoted ex cluslvely -to private flying, namely the Sportsman's Pilot; She was the first woman executive of a million dollar aviation corporation.
Sixty Answer 
Sorority Bids
M. M. Societies End Ten 
Day liu9hing Period
Sixty girlsaccepted the bids the three sororities of Margaret, Morrison Carnegie College at the. conclusion of the fall rushing season. Alpha Theta Sigma pledged 23 rushees, Gamma Phi Sigma 16, and _Knppa Phi Delta 22.
After a., rushing ..period..of-.ten days, duration, aoroi*Lles sent bids to the selected rushees. The following are the pledges of the ous sororities: Alpha Thetama: Vinnie E. Baker 37,H. Chancellor 36, Mary B. Duncan 35, Claire A. Frederick 37, Clara E. Hall 36, Ruth J. Kennedy 36; Florence H. Kuslan '35; Mary Alice Lamb 37, Margaretha W. Lang 36;- Mary Lou Lowndes 35,  Vera M.- Markus 35, Margaret. H. McKelvey 'SB, Miriam H. Mellon 35, VirginiaI. Mpore 36, Mary Alice Shields '35, Marlon Spellmtre 37 Helen M. Steibel 35, Dorothy J. Stevens
W. Westbay '35 and Virginia M. Whaley T"
Gamma Phi Sigma: Louise Baldy 37, Alpha Jane Black '37, Frances I. Campbell 37, 'Elizabeth W. ColP. - CrKisiao.-
Ington 37, Helen L. Stulen 37, aud F. Virginia Yohe-T*
Kappa Phi 'Delt: Mary J:aneAtkinson ,3R,. Roxanne B. .Anderson '36, Dorothy J. Booth 37-, Dorothy L. Farrell 37, Anne Ferguson 36, Virginia E. Filler 37, Mary D.
Nlchol 35, : Ruth A. Nichols 37, Jeannette C. Paul "37, Elinor K. Rankin '37, Ollve/H. Robinette 37, Betty Schoenberg *37, Dorothy J. Taylor 37, Mary Lou Thommassy '37, Jane F. Tiernon '37, and Clara M. Weller 35. ^
Masons Make Plans
For Citmas Dinner
CarnegieMasons' wiil hoWtbei Christmas Citmas club meeting o Monday evening,-. December 10, a 5:30 p. m. in the new Faculty Club
 Prof. Robert B; LeighdlijTliead 5ofthe .^Department of Industrial' Science r chairman of 'themeetingThe program^  which la ' being planned by Prof. Lelghou and. Mr. Lawrence H. Miller, superintendent of equipment, will be typical of the UhhstOittB aeaaonv...  '
Dean Arthur W. Tarbell has pi pared a talk for the meeting. He will speak on Cape Cqditles. The address wlll.be illustrated with coloredr'sifdes.
 The new Faculty Club Room is locate'd" at tfife reir ot theComm'ans Annex building.
-Any day or night sludentwhojs
 - _________. - :
Assembly Speaker
Tuesday In the Carnegie Mu6lc
Welfare Drive 
Closes Today; 
Expect $6,000
Mr. Beatty Reports Total 
Of $4,661 Contributed 
By Friday Noon
The Welfare Drive, under the di
rection of John D. Beatty, Bureau 
of Recommendations, closes today. 
The time was ofncially extended last Friday. At that time Mx. ,'ftollin V. Davis, treasurer for tho student - contributions, reported that $152.10 had been given by the students during the week.- This brought the student fund total up to $202.00, as only $49.90 had been reported before.
^ Friday noon's figure as given, by M!r. Beatty alsorevealfed that a total of $4,661 had been collected from the school and Carnegie In<
responded, with .$3,290.26, to Mrs. <L. J. Mpore who is treasjirer for thefaculty. Mr. Georgo *F.* Sheara - reported'.$l,168;75: ifor 175 members of the Carnegie Instltu te staff.
It Is .expected that the estensiou of.the Welfare Drive until today will bring the total up to the ro\1 of :$6.000 for the three contributing groups. Many students promised the canvassers during last week that they would contribute to the
International Awards 
Popular Prize of $200
Visitors to the 1934 Carnegie International Art Exhibition are invited to cast their ballots for the prize painting in the exhibits. The popular prize voting will continue
Carnegie Iron Men Line Up 
Against Mighty Pitt Panther
A Message to the Football Team <
P
ERHAPS never before iii the history of the Curnc^ie-l*itt 
game has n Carnegie team entered with the odds so solidly 
against it. Considering the records of the two teams it is easily 
undersood why the Panthers are so strongly favored. But there 
are a few reasons why we refuse to accept as. gospel the predic
tions as to the outcome of the game that are based on these 
rds.
Two teams represented Carnegie on the gridiron this year 
-7-the one that, went through the schedule us a matter of course 
and the one that faced Duquesne. We are concerned only 
with the fighting, scrapping, .inspired bunch that dcfeutcd the 
Dukes. They possessed a certain stolid, rocky impregnability, a 
certain indomitable quality, fired from within, that would, shine 
in defeat as well os in victory. If Pitt must reekp witJi that 
spirit, we refuse to be pessimistic about tho game. 
We believe that if tho teams were matched irian foi1 man, 
there wotiid be very slight difference between the two.-' The 
Skibos have needed only the spirit to inako them click, and thoy 
did click in their hist game. They have shown us that. they, arc 
a courageous and determined team. To that team, then, we sny 
only this:  . . v
Behind you is ns solid nndns loyal a block of supporters 
ns any team ever had. It hones to 'feee that same courageous, 
detemined spirit against Pitt.*
No school could ask more of its athletes.
Three One-Act 
Plays Planned 
For Matinee
Plays Written, Directed 
Under Supervision 
Of ProfWallace
Three one-act plays will be pre
sented at the Studio Matinee today 
at 3:30 in the Union; Administra
tion Hall. All theeo plays were 
written in. Professor Chester Wal
laces class in play writing. , The entire program 1b under the. supervision -of Professor* Wallace:
Gray Eyed Morn; a medieval mnlodrama. in blank verse written by Jane Livingston '25 Department of General Studies Is being directed by'Roy Minet. The cast includes Barbara' Kocyan, Marlon Richards, and Ralph Nason. .
"Blood Will Tell,. Is a character study of two maiden ladles, by Dr. J.C. Logan, Elizabeth Levlnger
Delke, Virginia Martin and Dorothy E. Sachs comprise tho cast.
"Dorm Mouse, alao wTltten by Dr. Logan, the author of the second play in the program, Is dltheby Marcia Lely.
jeorgie Taylor, Barbara Burt
H^arst Answers Editors 
Questions on Nationalism
NtBtionfo M&st Influential-Publisher Prints Open 
Letter to President of Assn of College Editors 
Stating His Views on Disarmament
November 17,1934.
Atr. Francis G. Smith, Jr.,
President, the Association of College Editors,
354 Fourth Avenue, New York.
My! Dear Sir: . . .
 I am happy to learn that Mr. Norman Angell'is a probable 
Nobel prize winner but I have not been overwhelmingly .im
pressed by actual prize winnersas far as their political sa
gacity is concerned.
Bccause of which (and irrespective of which), I do. not feel 
obligated to answer categorically disingenuous specious ques
tions propounded on the recognized have you stopped beating 
your wife?Answer yes or no" basis.
Nevertheless, I have no objection to stating clearly arid 
comprehensively iny beliefs as to what constitutes visionary and 
what practical and patriotic internationalism.
I personally believe, in nationalism AND internationalism 
each in.its proper place.
I believe in benefiting all the people of the earth, whenever 
nd wherever wc can do so WITHOUT SACtilFICING*THE 
INTERESTS-OF-OUR. OWN PEOPJUK.....................
I believe in promoting the public welfare, but I do notbe
lieve' it necessary in doing so to be entirely indifferent to the 
needs of my own family and associates.-:
I believe iu loving my neighbor as myself, but I have: not 
yet reached tho point where I am ready to sell all I have and 
give every precious personal'and. national possession to covetous 
neighboring nations who desire them but do not deserve them;
I believe in good faith .and common honesty among indi
viduals ad-also among, notions, ............
I believe in honor even among thieves.
I believe that honest debts should be paid and a .word , of 
honor respccted among peoples and. politicians, even, when dis
honesty and dishonor are momentarily profitable.
Pledges must not be given unless they are to. be observed; 
obligations  caaaot -bo. -GoatrftctM uDTe$s..;lhi?y...0T:e..to.: he ..dis
charged.
 Business cannot be conducted unless the names on notesand bonds are valid and honored.
International relations can never be. maintained on a tnendIv basis ot even on a business basis if all men are liars and all uations repudiators of ;debts and duty
(Continued oh Page Tjro.)
Pf
Pitt Pep Rally 
Will Be Held 
Wed. Evening
Panther Effigy Will Be 
Burned at Bonfire; 
Harpster Speaks
Plans for the Pitt Pep Rally .in the Carncfelo Bowl tomorrow night .ro rapidly nearing completion under the dh'eclJon of Clyde Glschel, head cheer leader. The pep rally will begin at 7:30 with a parade, headed by the Kiltie Band, on Margaret MorjJspn street.;'Immediately ftr-the parade-tho crowd will gather around a. huge bonfire1 in the bowl. - The feature of-the evening, Mt. Glscliel has announced, will he the burning of an effigy of the Pitt Panther when the bonfire-reaches its height.
Make Elaborate Pfans 
Mb-. Glschelsays that elaborate preparations are being carried-torcaptains Dutch Croft and Lib1 Lewis, and all the members of the football - team will be present to give talks. Between the talks there will be cheers, selections by the Kittle Band, and eongB.
Mr. Glschel hopes that this will be the biggest pep rally Carnegie hasever witnessed. He says that enthusiasm stirred up at a successful pep rally the night before a game will show in the playing of the men on the gridiron th next day.
Students Back Team
"if the team knows,11 nr. is . states that] Oarhegfe ia baching them to the limit, and they play as they did in the Duquesne game, It will produce a combination which will be hard for Pttt to bet.- It ls lip to us to' turn out for the rally and show the team how we feel about ItV'The rally tomorrow bright will mark the last appearance of three senior cheer leaders, Clyde Glschel, William Davis, and jack Provoet at a function of this sort at Carnegie.
Carnegie Y Sponsors 
Annual Turkey Dinner
The Thanksgiving dinner, Jointly sponsored each year, by the Carnegie Y. M. and Y. W. C. A., will be held in tho faculty room of the Carnegte Inn on Thanksgiving day atj:00;
The dlnnflp is being held for all thoae students who .will be unable to go home during the Thanksgiving recess. Tho committee in charge has requested that all who expect to be present at the dinner sign the list which is posted in the YV Office before the end offu* day. : : The Thanksgiving turkey dinner fifty"Cea-tft; - A, will pay the balance.of the bill. There will be no-charge for dormitory .women.since the,dinner la.ln* eluded intheir board.After the dinner there'will be an open house, radio dance at Forbes Hajl. ; ;
a
Wee Scotch Lassie Thdnkegiving jerry Hanson. The Tuesdav Quarterback.-Guest'Star. Campus Highlights .  Wee Scotdr.LaasIe .:: :>.;T GueeB-It Had' toBe that Way1 Announcer;-:; CarUM:rDoier.'
Winner of Stadium 
Battle Takes City 
Championship 
PITT IS FAVORED 
OVER SKIBO TEAM
Game Steeped in Tradition 
Will Close Football Days 
Of 8 Tartau SeniorB
By Jim Hughes nmml meeting het>athers and tho <____Tartans throalenod to vie with the proverbial Thanksgiving dinner for popularity in the minds of the gridiron fans of Pittsburgh. This game between those traditional rivals lias always been one of the greatest interest, and since It has been mado a feature of Thanksgiving riay, tho Plll-Carnegle game Is fast becoming -a football clnRBtcWlnner Takes Title 
Tno City Championship had always been more"or -lossdecided bv this game, but.In past vears. it has been without the reckoning of Du-- quosne. This year, however, bIiico the Plaid has already met nnd defeated the Dukes, the winner oC this coining'battle will have un> disputed right to the football title of tho Smoky City.
Panthers. Favored In the general -opinion, the Pan' there are favored to take this en< counter. Some verygood rensons' are responsible for. this opinion, for  Pitt has already mot some of-the strongest teams In the country and has dropped only one game so far. . A schedule which includes Buch ; teams as Southern California. Min  nesota, Noti*o Dnme. Nebraska, and Navy iu not one to be taken lightly. nnd anyono with anv knowledge of the grand old gam will admit ' that ah outfit which can stand tho ; teat of a.schedule Ilke thJs one. and drop only one game, must certain*  ly have the stuff.1 Of all these tenme. Minnesota was the only one which, was strong ioiigh-tobredk\-up the -w Inn Ink 
of that game was l3-7. which . although decisive enough, does aot?~ possess a margin compared to that-, supplied by the scoroe by which-:
Such scores ee 31-7 uor 20-6 over Southern Oal; and 1D-0' qvr Notre Damo are enough t prove that the Scots are-golng^Of have the toughest opposition which'; they have had to face so far thl&;
Promise Good Fight 
Although the Tartans have nof ..
game will nevertheless be tereatlng spectacle. That little mat" ter of traditional rivalry may us-:, ally he depended upon to make a :: good game between two te&me which.differ greatly In the-matter . of strength and previous accom' pllshments. In the laat few years, - the Scots have usually been the  underdogs, but they have consist-': ently put up a good fight, and the : encounters have bean good exhibl: tlobs of football.
Mlhm, Munjas 
On.of. thffeefcumi of the pune:.. will he a miniature battle betwebs-^ the two quarterbacks. Joe Mlhm, of - Carnegie, and Miller. Munjas^. ct;"--
.thePanthers.. As a peculiar
1934 Dollar Day 
Campaign Opens
Alumni, Students Contribute 
To Endowment Fun J
Today is Carnegie Dollar Dav,- tlve opening day of the eighth annual Dollar Day campaign among Carnegie alumni. Today each alumnus and student Is askedto  contribute one dollar or more-lo the CaroegJo Endowment FuDd... Already $40 lias, been turned in-to the Alumni Office Contributions during the cam-.turned: over to th^,
Corporation by which the school .", will, receive eight million dollars In19-46,,provided It has raised ^four .v million.During'the six veore that the campaign has been held. $2500 had ^ been raised by the Alumni Federal tlon, but more than half ; of-rthla^ was raised the first two years. Be*:^ tween now and 146 the monev colinvested now will amount; vto-. much larger 6um-ln twelvc years.^: The Dollar Dav plan was origin nated by JObn L. Porter. vlce ohair*^- man - of .' the. ' Carnegie Board 'of y Trustees, and has been In opera* tlon for seven years. The cam*wpaign-is-not-llnrit-ed-i-to-oluaiali only but Includes all friends of the< school. Checks should be made. payable to the Alumni PedeTaUonv: and sent to . the Alumni .Officer List of; contributors will be .poV-*.TUI*,

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOYESfBER 27, 19
j5iUe (Satnc gie 3Tartati
 , EHONB X4TTIO^ES ICTC
WILLIAM LASPSBSBG  " . 3nrN*szESor saxer_  J_ RAPTRmnustsb salstiS1ARCARST caiFFDC
V e do not cuuuzzd me potc*Jftat A1EERCA 
most be a^nate*? deffendedagaEs^ fcreasiaa. 
Tha poEnCo eo6orriyn'^Ttat '-'mtnty 
Be coosr^red.'.^s ";Z]9- ADSQ ETATE cffens' 
Too sagTib ajnnjv ita*7nd air forre*eeood 
t ceueiT  Weciafe Cac^ s6* an irtrsa^fe 
minecesesarythat considering tie natural ad
vantages that accrue to AS0SRTCA Si fts ro<atfac.Qc the.g.tobe and the topographical disp<Mi. 
tiois of its land, AEKiCA can be jnits secure with much less.
By whaef&ifier. E&e3.-_ea_ype ccrast'Tue the 
fact Chat i AMERICA does cot hare thegxeacest amoun o armaments it wSr'he selling all
Ob Secpjad' .4
it-.
Dudejr O. Pendieran, Jr.
Qo3~Sfp EdniHh
Wlijdea? rb mofe-tfcuac -S coOeges-'ktd fiiTersittes-. oe foreetl. against siieir wilt ti tothe "ga^'stepr o f ' military'tiafaEn 
 foETw tte calSngs w they jsZAuretf * - - *._'  theS" COU5CSUCI5S?   His CfetiOCta* and stras eterjprecious, personal ,i=S _ the Bands at tte Sapreme Couit periVinational possessionneighboring .
 r - --------Jare the \,ub ubtc. fcmirersfCT set fts ftnpffcatioas ;exploitation Esy other | tn.g. nilicg will tafiuence "directly and indirectly 
fi'the character of them&ft *' Let's omit tie pretty, meaningless phrases, of tbe ether universities.3Ir. Se&rsC. , Lets strip* ouswords of aC rs\ Tiie esse concerns itself witb . ________
dwn to har taels. f.of the FTniTereity off Southern Calxionts at Losr two .students
SPOETVS STAFF":MglHauu Aiiiiitoc
BSDSSS STAFF; 3at AJIa
Loizna. SeiZA2CctciiM
CLBCULXSZQS STJLFF: Alberter. E_ Caadlmait. . G^n-i.Ptemliy. yo Bcttt. E.
SEAFF ASHST: G. Sae FttHer.
We Ajjsw er Mr. Hearst
F
My Dear JCr. Hsart,
KQK YOU TO dsclise to answer onr quess pertaps tfc easiest wajr for 73a 
60 defend yottr policy of ae arajr, angmi altd 
sir. force secoxril ter none.' Ton excuse yrarrse by cTalntEtrg: that tiie questiaos were *le. ceitfcl and tmfanr. and. disxes*iniing. them-.
 Exerety state your beliefs ccncercingnaCfonafisni and mtemationaltsm  yoor Exe way.
! Etereby  avoiding tiie rist of eipoefcs, your
self. and any fallacies ttet might exea t ta 
statu.
. T __ . ...___T, Angeles. ATonao Reyno-Tfe, Jr. ac Albert Ham-43ERICa is tfee Teadm caeroct of tre worfo , itfRr^ wb3 exoeTes for rscscs; as a at 
VTat : does, tire policies |t perenes haTe 2 j e6r cr eoaseianee to iem the R. O. T. C. Tbes> 
tremeccous nifiiietce an the actions at tfee fwys, 60th sons and sraadsoose "Miodis
ro-t ft-trip, ns.cras' - Emiotere. 2tsTe aeea pet st of the ITnfiTemsft:.. .. I. * ^ |:ai=e Qcta&sr. 1&33.In tzLL positiva it raust aAJIC [or pesc r nac ^ i0 pregectfa^ fe-js ase. te the Court, Mr. Jgbi
for war. ^ Beardsey f Los Angeles, eoacseS for tce sca-Fr ic to> adopt the policy yoc propose"*4 'dents, argued as fallows: Te R. O. T. C. js 
-----T j^-yy jjJj. totte oa t> con" i a iasr part off t&* Federal Slitasry Esaib-wonld mean simply th;
AS AILMA34ESTS RACE which ^octd fc2TitabIy lead to THE XEST WAR which 
wogM tce^ftabfy featf Co LB3UXBS
Sincerely yocr^.
WTLUAil LANIDSBERG.
A Vast Contribution
S
tudents atcarxegis nsi<~ but a
asne conception: of tli* rast. extent of 
Andrew Carnegie's beoeiackioa to fifr woritS. 
Eis sCts wece the most ^art aot to chari
ties lq. the current sense, relief of maneriai dis
tress. bit or meosssl and spiritoaf czEltrraiicc. 
H$- endowed undertakfnsa which in bis iadffmeat seemed best desigs-ed to piodcxee the 
mej'st 6eneScia results for his iellow-men.
Tpegreatest single fomri&tion fowded &y 
him is the Carnegie loatitcte which s. fa
miliar to ail Cirnegie studentsHcs nest great 
gift is the Carce^fe institution at Washington. 
Its purpose i? to> advance fondameniial research 
in gelds not normaUycoTered by the: activi
ties o( other agencies ini to ccrneeatLral& Rs 
actenti-on cpon specific research problems. A 
few of the diTigiiiis off the Inatrtati&a are: 
Moant Wiiscm Obsematory. Department of 
Embryorogy, Dmsion of Historical Researt-h, 
Department oi Merffftap Astrometry.
jri 0110302.1: endo-wmetit is - the Camegfe
Hero Fund Comnassioo, toonded in 1904. The 
Comnjissioo grants awards to recognition -tit 
heroic sees performed in the peacitol walks 
of Life Ini thosecases which have been per
sonally i&,?estLg&ticd and in which cc&clcsive 
e-rtience isobtained sbowtns that the person |
tife ia swing or attempting to aa^e the life. I 
of a CeEo-w-beingAs a result df ICr. Carnegies desire to aid ! 
the profession off college teacher, theCarnegie i
lisfcneot and coa-polsorr serriez  of _ peace amounts to ao abndgsn
aBd 'raiie Of Citizens e? E Tarted Stases, thn-s Tiorating the nth Amendmeatr_ miiicsry trainiBg tmposei upon 
lc:?Qa..GL5 oWeciow. such as Hamilton and To[at΀Ts' of the freedom cfReynolds, is. _ _____ wUgfeB goaranteed'iy'fee.'IstXntemaa-E^ compalsory mflitary craicmg is contrary ter
tS'S6 -a n<C C&e teiter of KeHoss ft. J^iw  J?_ ^fo?a ^ ^ QO means_ this sort fcay. 
OMo State^I0^J!" ISS:*inpe,a bom rasp^so ajmcary trawmg, coarse caosmg s coaanfttea 
Si r^JZ fscorty ntembere. mclndiog th& head ? KT* cTTorttobe appa toted to io 
emptedlerrfew the objectors. Fiiteen ____
Tentions objectors; and the
The whole
the qaestrtt o whether land grant eoloth^r sixteea. __
were ordered to drin or reave. SeTeaTeCtT
troversy seems to be rooted roiTO5 _ Hir'My*; ofl whether land grant eolIn^n,h-P csT^ & Fniffersity of California .and Ohio State are examples most F^airethe students to take military drift or mnst oafaoffer military trafning-. ia e. Attorney General ntied that even in the land grant cSleges. it is required ortl-y that naLitai-r tranm& be offered.1- Rnlings of local boards off regsats and state laws havefarther confused the C5sn& imta now ic  one which only tire SuErrerne Coon can antaiigle.
'^st^dents in California and
Anstyefs^^qrs
% . Questions or Nationalismm?
I beliee ia (Costinced From PagVOiie.T "
1,. . . - Ta"d * aH saas-measorei to pxamote pra,,at flome-and abroad and-smonBtionsBUTPABTICL-LALT AT HOME.
I believe that the best way to insure peace at home is 
1 out-of wars abroad andoat or urme^saiy^jRiehiatioi complications .which may J?ad to war.
I believe ia.disarmament -whexi nations are willingio dis.
I believe in sustained ecoris to persuade nations to dLs;
But I do not believe that a rich and envied country 
r own should place itself in the position of a shortsighted
__a misguided nation like Chics, and leave itself open to attack
and exploitation by hiber nations which are ambitions, unsc-rop. ulouSr and AKSEED.
X believe in abawdoning our miiitaty forces when our peopl? 
0222 be safeiv and sarelr defended witbont them.
I believe in aBolisbiug the police force when there are no 
longer criminal elements to necessitate it.
I believe in disbanding the Sre department'when all th? 
houses are boilc &f non-infiammable materials.
E believe ia closing the idiot asylumson the day when ti> fongeistich an obvious and urgent need for them.
The faet
does i _
affect as is the principiebehind 0.^
should the Court upbotd the mlfagSv wnn maaw rb* .< onid be in the pcwer of 
legally raase edoaffect nsr-bnt what does.
actios?
'oofd mean chat 
and Unive
_ t.h?e ^h? dl> Mi adjost thetr ideLojhose of the UniTersity asShorities.
the other hand, the SnpremeShoold.* that ( titntiouaLnfffcary etfm_____and that we are allowed rourse of our Ifres by onr ds-nap* weshali be a step nearr I
an open mindedaess trom whfcr I real understanding between tn'
..Bat ne-rertheless we contend that there are
 loopholes m yoTzr nationalistic, policies and 
'despite the evasive character of your Teater. ic
otQS can be used to nnccrer them.
Ccrrapar.entl-y, It tetls ns that the best way 
ta maintain peaceis. to stay o-at of war. Iadeed a remarkable thocgt. Quocisg rom yoar 
. letterbelieve that the best way to insurepeace at hocrs is to keep oat of wars abroad
 scd oa oi unnecessary international comp-lfcatSras which may lead 9 war. Of conree
. tha scun3 finebut is. it possible and if -o 
: how is t to be done? As yoar incongruous 
answer is Maintain an army, navy and itir 
urre second to cone. lie other words, eatftr 
.Eto an. armaments race with the rest of the 
:  worldand set thepace-, I
For a nacioato beseccre under the cota[  . - - -
-J_T^fjr>Vr. prfa-cipls is most be stresser taa airr 1 Focmdatkiis for the Advancement el 'Teaching j. |
.  possible rivai. What then blendes of the I toana i& x5vG.  its 5.5isutry"fsi:ctoa ;  
:  rival ts hs to go withaat defender How P ^ t&e sdmiaistrscion: of z system of old ag-s} 
aas tf-*ase f sseh ozs=5 cr hs ajannities, on a contraetua basis, depending oa ' *
?hB siste tbe seiimiy oi the one means the f J0*- paymentsby the teacher and the ioatifcsseurity of the other? Qoes WILLIAM RAXI' ^utfois witit which he is connectedIn connecV.BOLPH HEAItST think that there is same 1 ^oc witis thisundertatiDg. cruca smdSes of 
educational probtems. off Americao and Cana
dian; eolleses are made.
Cimegie keen foresight was repealed in 
his founding the Carnegie Endowment for in
ternational Peace in 10<l*. This foundation 
saelcs 0 ad^inc-i the cause of peace among 
nations. ta> hasten the nsaoneiacioa of war as
an fostnuneat ef cationa >oIicyr to promo:e 
methods for the peaceful settlement of international diffrences. The aim of the Endow. [ni beiWed to 
ment educational work is. 50 promote she ad): Uy of a. warless world taken fai 
vancement and efinsioni o knowledge and cn* [ Wltf* modem youth today Ues the choice bedsrstandms nuni the peoples of the worii | 1<ier sezerzcioa 3/> _ .. . i ^treaiy possnig, the war generation, shatteredThe Camssie .Cocporatioa of ,\ew \ors,  and ^bankmpt. recsae!? pocre way ^
D it in the air 
: bat they* mast % 
. it's' alC about, bni
A. C. E. Horizon
by 'which e&ch 
' d2te-other?
inorder to. be secure, AMERICA mast 
hersf stronger than a rival, dises Wii.- 
. '.yj* gapwhvdw HEARST snzgeet that that 
Tirol 'wilt accept tbs situation, and not resort 
-.'Bo alliance ma'AmsT
S'. .EG.oa the greonds oi oztio^zl seenn:yr 
i,'-.: JLSBECA cannot, accept the prepoadevaaee c 
.  fforeiga combtnatioa, why aliaald AMERI-.:CANSexpect foreigners' to accept THEER5. 
 spi&ciilljr as cher prepocdersnce (the 
:;..iEBS> resulted in imposing npom their rivals.
toeaty wbieh HR. HEARST himseU refer to 
V; : Sthe -1ITTKR IXJCSTICt: OF THE VERiv ,.ALLES TFtEATT."
t-AiIEEtICi were-, to heed WILLIAM 
RaXBOLPH 1SE4RST and enter the armacients racewhere would it. end? Woai'd ic gji
J.sar,=r,3e trHS~!?!T.7' for-5om^iB/r is is almost 
'inevitable tiiat e wL happen. Most che peo" 'ples of the world bear heavy tasacin to shtjV.' a method test didn't work in ESIiT 5Eis:.tfey es ceaeh valuable lessons if. the world -7 ad peopis likeWILLIAM RANDOLPH 
.'HEARST are. willing to learnTo state tiiat yoc -aelxes-e honest debts
- .siioal be paid and a word of honor respected 
..aasoca peoples end politicians, even wb.ee disfcoaestv an<t coshotor are momentarily proat- : --Fiedsss mEst ,s ft* eis-en unless thev are
to he srved;- -shi'^aticns cannot becon.-- 
--firacted nntess. the-r are to be discharged."
- &ss<sa<i of Posing oorsres in high sonndug 
p&cases. Mr. Fiearst. let's deal reatisttcaUy 
:v with the facts. Suppose those war debtsare 
settpafo. r& it to be expected that nations was 
  Bsve not ss cannot sufficientr recover from 
the ecoaotexe crippbn? of the last war can 
. p*y their dbts? H&v? EspeciaQv if an armaI 
-jaee'Ss'-a'-asbaSsigwyffed-e.'nt t^- r^ooe off ! 
->that BStion are are&dr paring Iteaw tnbn: 
to h^abs m the form o iar^e armies-an 
'_3sstis And is it-to be expected.that the t&ird
 aad.:.foarii gEoerations after the war shemid 
. sslneit. calmiy and placidlr to pTng debts
\h&r had no hand m incnmng? lender what
 jramft do yoQ caB that jnsttre?
- .- Toar mentg of tbese debts m coimectioa 
ijli yoar poEcy 03 armaments mtlmaEes to
"TB tJiit 'perh&ps &e".tfis -s^y iff?ae wti?.o.,iS;jrC5be >roper for ABSICA to collect thcne
- ' by forces If we are covrest in oar is 
--.tftrprelatioa sad that, dtonghc qo^s estst, ih5
perish . the thoo^tt. Those debts can never 
rebUected by foixa. That would ostr-disaTiitnlMaf-'IW" 'a*rv;asi>-r5p52Ei----cccsii.C;. 
^ttrsctnrc ot the debtor nadoa and make even 
i ' impossible any chance of pdsymect. . .
^on W1UM RANDOLPH HEARST adj 
ft tKataHhongfe he ha<* Sfc3.de
the snbict he has not come to reatfze I 
^BPbyal>{fc deter are the necessary legacy I 
EjH-SffSE. there .are-no victors. |
TOU GUESS . . . Too can sm
The fraternities all dread
The plebes dont know wh;
The donas don't evencare about ft. CCept Minnie.)
Tae co-eds get loads and loads of dates daring :c.
And everyone is gra^r when its over.
Ton said it. Rcshios Seasoa. Sundayoshered It fa with a 
baag. . . . Smiles . . . Handshakes . . . The lowly ptebe. now 
cock of the wait . . . Some taking it . . . Others letting it get 
tae best of them ... And with it ail. the usual run of boners 
wkicb at least ease the strain.
OF NOTE . . . Kappa STg Hays. Dragon. StUCoancil Treasurer, 
ec ai, calling at the P K A boose and having one of tbe bros .*J1 
surllesv fifp him She ontsfirete-hed paw with Sorry. I haven't met 
yon. Adamson's my name." Teh. Tch.
And the Belt hand-shaking line so Tong that several times 
the poor out-going piebes tnrtted and fais-wetled the boys waiting 
there to take th*m to another bouse. Toevery cze-'s amusement
A barEy freshman, one of the other side of tbe track, Mickey 
himseir typ% at the Beta house growling abont the minute size 
of his coffee serving. -It's s demi-casse,' chirped Scotty. Came 
back .M hero, 'Looks dec small to me.
THESE. THAT EtOTS - - - And heres 
and means, committee* reports from a ! xatwesWee WttUe" Clements stipem'sed the painting at the Sigma 
Xtt tifmse last Saturday night. Only one slip-uphe Torso? to re
member fcat a drier is necessary m ih? paint. Imagine his em
barrassment whan Sunday morning rotted around and the floats 
still wet. It ait ended up wi& the boys wiping up the stuff and
Bat oftentimes I am competed to realize tiat such a happy day is far distant. '
Sincerelv voors.
W1LLI RANDOLPH HEARST.
sending It bacGL
Do a Biacfcwood has made aH the brothers at the AT. 0. 
house get new soits (or rushing season. Be contends that a good appearance meaos as mnc&  ~ - 
... Oh yes. his brether's j 
people these A. T. O.s.
Sbuffle" Burke was seen ia the vicinity or the Stratford 
Club aarly Sunday morning. It seems the P. E. is wasted a 
canopy and -Shoffle was out to do his bes=.
Johnnie Richmond was all in favor of painting the stone 
pfifars in the front of the D. O, house . . . But tbe rest of the 
boy? were pretty well acquainted with soce of Johnnie's jobs, so 
they just Eet him put a lock on the arag?.
The E. D. R-s have secured some1, very pretty curtains . . . 
thaaks to Dodo Shafts . 1 . That feejtoe touch helps a Tot.
The Kappa Sig^ splurged and bought three'piog poag balls.
To be used only by the rushees. The brothers win keep playing 
with discarded egg sfcetts.
, One of the &eta Sfgma Rho chaps fa and an admiral's uni
form. Now Jerry Kappel Is their swanky doorman. Watch out for the goose.
WELL MISS HER . . . Eogenia Kehr. dramat and one of :he 
brightest of the MeTTon lites is with us no more. Poor health 
and n>?g Pittsburgh weather have resulted in her leaving bag and 
and baggage for sunny Arizona. Of course the gals gave her a 
big send-offA real party at the Schenley with pop-, iee cream, and everything.
THATS STOPPING 'EM . . . Prof. Goodfeitow. fa his public 
speaking classes, keeps bis charges froi^ running on forever by 
tapping on the desk with his penen when their time is up. The 
other day he himself was giving loag-wioded criticisms on the 
variaos speeches and was just beginning on Tom Lord. True to 
J he stopped abruptly when Tommy took a chance andtapped his <
SILLY SCIMITARS ... An enterprising female reporter cftTliag 
the Scimitar prexy for news the other day was greeted with 
Hello, Is that you, Toots.?" EtUie*- the Lennox-DeMoth" aEalr j 
has progressed to that stage of the-"game or Harvey, the old 
 feeling kittezish. Perhaps a check up is seeded
s; Brittain, zAMEFUCANDIDE. 2- author of the recently publish-4 Testameat of Yontt.- is west tem in t-ngiana for her activities fa peacemorea-incs and for r.'ne "tmancipatiouof her sex. Writing n the November Ilth tssne of the N*ew York Herald Tribane. she says:
I do no: believe that she youthiul and instrncted minoriiy ot modem youth wants wr ; .The old still privately believe that wn 
nature . . . ouh the cotiecp.iTe sys
founded te 19*1; was established for the par[sweet wine of youth and' taeut 
pos* of promoting the advancement ^rrrf dti-!. onT 3 outstanding persocatiti
fosion of knowedga and understanding amoUii il^e5 ͒acs_ 2-usr tae spine of deteztisus,mPw ?,- TT_r.^ a o-._._ ! eTer'permitted ia war. which lieslike a Jj-lLghttfee peopfe of the United states, and &y a later ! upca cfce 
gift, atso among those o the British; DctniLttfas | 'Peace.' i 
and Coloaies. The Corporation has received |;- war. but 
its phmity Lfi-i'ii t>-e"t3t iHl -3 -az.-<2-- Is0'1}' . .* 
erating agency but rather of a helping agsucy [ hilTtle^cti 
for other Carnegie endowments. The income Etions of that
f recoast ruction. i Spinoza, fs not the ab. firne boro from strength
i liquid aadership-. which has b<J pinfaJIy re-echoedfrom edaeacor to ecator'1 
p??t Cff. seems, to have had I. i little effect, if ojudge
lisiiatfot has US .ought sad action.
es. Stains &re
nacqualntedCcivei
000,000,
A trust for tile Universities of Scotian 
established at Edinburg. One half oi ti 
dowmeoc went to improve bnzTdings and api J^*Ci
paratus. The remainS&g tali goes toward the. r potsc " before i
payment oi class fees oi students of Scotch ^iead uadergfaj 
bicth or extraction. ' ji student gorenrmeats haveAmesg oaher lar^e endowmeats of 3>Ir. Carf rUEll,tlie. Ea?tmost m6mi. _ ................................... I tbe bast of nocsIarit-T -negie are the Carnegie li cited cviigdcm . Ttiey ar6. the ~weli ges
Trust,, the Chnre'a Peace Union. Palace of ! apeak nicely to everybody 
Peace JThe Rsfcs;r and the FiC-Atnirica/: ' - - - - '
Union Suclding.
Mr. Carnegies gifts to the wortd amoun 
o 35'i,9*-6^3; of this sum S2SS.T4=5i50 wen' 
co the Taited States. He has m^de possibI< 
the erection of 1,23$ library buildings in th<
United States and .-i'S church organs in the |-
wurid. Over SS>33S,^$ as bett girea lo ( any stand on the 3T O. T.~C. (e'ther
Amertcsa colleges, not including Carnegie. Ho |tn); they wonld consider' it's personal dis-gare away ail his funds to the people of th k-* -*
worid'exefept -wii& -fi-sst -asid^.
for Ms family.
No one hs ever so* royally returned 
public what fee had drawn from them. An
other. generation would have forgotten the 
mere successful business mac, however great; 
busit cnatd sat forget the splendid and perna> 
nently useful gifts which he has endowed iL 
, Andrew. Carnegie ha& truly carried out his 
own conriciiocav th^t ^surplus weslth |$ a 
sacred trust.ia bVsdnffiiliitered or. le ulgh-ist 
good of the people-."
TARTAN CORRECTiO
fn the story on rushing which appeared Ease KcFj^Tc^^EWAF^s - Shs-ai-W. men?-,
tioced as receiving two dates during restricted rashiag as well as Beta Sigxna Rho.
ful magnificence' which i
cases, .they seem perfeciiy
 " after year; their attitude" of 
fi councS activits
same people s
Penn State co-eds have discovered that, the old-fashioned  washbord -nsakes'the whitest shirts.  The drawback is that whfle the board 
cakes oat screuty-sefen-pei .cent oC:t|ie .diii. t. strength <^. tK ^rts:ir~Rdced: ^^.'7da
SSSI
! complete icdifferei is truly amazing-.Whatever the objections to cfes" aad fraternity ble<sPK tl}< tieaaNf-aora bsjltisy. tiisn tfte..Tbougit the Western coUeg^s ai^different problem, because of thetr larger si dent bodies. It seems safe to say that the' method wfcer&by candidates offer their piatform before election is productf-- -  and more intelligent action.
 particularly appropriate for*a change. ThrogW^he coturnos ot' the'news*' papers, students should be made to resize that all swell gents are not overburdened with brains, that dignityshoal cot be the' only, attribute of a governing group, and that the members of student government should feel free and able .to' express themselves not only ou-local issues,-but.on the vastly nor important .national and international problems, 
.............. ... _ .. . ,

---------------------------------------------------

4ft.
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
    
BY JERRY HANSON
3 THE BIG CLASSIC VIES WITH THE TURKEY pretty soon no-\
? mark a finish to this season's. grid activities for the Tartars.
If tbe injuries'which;deplete tbe squad at preseut get a .chance, to 
jieal up In time, the Scotchmen will not only give the Panther a 
battle, but IheyU be out.oo the field "with lull Intentions to upset the 
dope. The confident guys who are' giving points had better slow up
Lebmsn and Spisak are still lame with pulled muscles, and Ter* 
ilc Terebus had not seen practice since the Tartans dunked the 
SDukes. Otherwise the team is in fine shape,'and growling for a taste 
f ot the Kitty.
\ WE RATHER WONDER WHAT JOHNNY ANDERSON has to attract 
e recent publicity! An epidemic of broken arms is expected. 
\ Andy doesnt need the sympathy, reallyhell get his chance next year,
Harpster has been saving him for a rainy day, and next years 
ledule is tough enough to provide the latter.
BASKH7TBAI>li} PRACTICE WILL CONTINUE SLOW Tor a spell, to 
.rork up in a cfcjpscendo climaxing in the meet with'Westminster,'Which 
iviu take all tbe Plaid cagers can give. Westminster has about the 
strongest five oT the district, and are In championship Ishape this year.
A good sized group is oat on the floor already, and a short rest 
!:|aftor Thanksgiving will And a number of football players out, to add to, 
'ijthe individual and group slz^ of the squad. A number of plebe grldders 
_jin the loop shooters, also, after they are finished working Pitt 
Splays against the varsity eleven.
right, too.
?JtkE SWIMMING TEAM IS MISSING SOME OF THE stellar material 
i In the past. In the A. A. U. meet of last week at the Pittsburgh 
sf Athletic Association, in which the Plaid was entered, the SkJbos scored 
L a single point.
Notable among the missing is Ranny Boyer. We hear from Mr. 
ver occasionally, and the^most recent info has It that hes having 
| his usual trouble with fowl parses at the pretty waitresses.
If WE MUST RECTIFY ANY MISLEADING IDEAS vihlch might occur 
larding Carnegie boxing. Coach Ernie Sesto ie afrald that some good 
,terla1 might not go In for the sport In apprehension of cauliflower 
s and what not. Boxing instruction is Coach Ernie's ware, and its 
J purpose is" to provide against Ju6t that sort of thing.
Mr. Sesto devotes every afternoon from 4:30 on In the gym to 
ichlng the punch-minded elementsc dont be bashfut.
! THE RIFLE TEAM DESERVES OUR NOTICE AGAIN, for it is clearly 
heading for more national recognition, Th dead-eyes are already 
* shooting jn veritable championship form, and interest and keen com* 
fpetition will bring steady improvement.
THE ARCHITECTS SKIRMISHED WITH THE DRAMATS to the tune 
9 to zero in the mud last Saturday. The Dratf:ng Room aggregai had It all over the Actors In size and numbers, as well as mud. 
?The clever Arh boys wore cleats, putting the. Dramats at a decided 
advantage...
Big Boy Hart starred for the Drafters. Joyce did a clever bit from 
[the play by Charlie Horse. Arv Biggin bears mute testimony to the 
natuiof the battlea beautiful shiner!
Women9* Athletics
------by------ i
MARGIE GREEN
Last call lor the bowling season! In just two more weeks the tournament will begin, so all sixty of bowlers had better check up .our records before it is too late, ne down to the alleys next Friday if you want a good opportufrom cach classes will make the team and 100 athletic points. Mary Alice Shields, Mary Catherine SWell. and Ruth Weiler are all dong very well. As usual, however,  so-called ^lo^yly plebe, Louise Pace, is putting the rest of us to shame with a leading scoreof 122.
Poppy Warner tells me that the basketball season will begin next Monday, December third. It has s been a lively one in previous Let me i'feTrrivid you of tho splendid record held by our presentclasNot I: have theybeen defeated in "the intramural
of wearing a traditional, uck green ribbon which teems lo direct the ball into the liands of her forwards every time lie jumps for it. (If a real chalngp is .nil that you freshmen aro looking for, here is your chance for plenty tough competition.
All hoard membersattention, lease. To uvold any misundertanding, j -wish to correct my;
Beauty lines! Eveiy bot
tle of Higgins* American 
Drowing Ink isfullofthem 
free-flowing, brilliant,4
 precise and colorfulIry 
o sef. M Waterproof 
Colors,. Waterproof and 
General Blacks. . 
--CHAS,ikt.HlGO!Mi-aCO.,tfle.. #11 Nlilh St,' ' liMkltih N. Y.
HIGGINS'
American
HIGNS'1 DAks
Candidates Called 
For Swim Managers
Coach Risedorph wishes to announce that there is urgent need for freshman swimming managers. Any freshman interested in this work is asked to report to Mr. Risedorph at his office on the secoad floor of the Gymnasium.
Hockey Team, lo 
Form New League
.Varsity hockey is under way once more at Carnegie with arrangements being made with. Pitt, Duquesne,- and the Duquesne Garchasers will retain all of tlieir sity men from test year"* successful squad. This group includes Fred Dubiu, Da^ve Higgin and Al Bell, Harv Lennox, Xdamson, MeClincy, Meyer, Dana, and FiaMonoie reasons that since we wont have to pay for our dinner on Wediesday, December fifth, we may as
Tartans to. T'a e k l e  
Touted Pitt P&ntheF
Grd Finale Is Local 
Battle with Team 
Of NatI Rank
 (Continued From Pago One.) 
sides, acting as the field generals 
of their teams, are also the punting 
experts. Mihra has made him6elf nationally prominent on the strength, of his kicking. By bringing his big toe into play, fttibm has taken the Plaid out of danger, several times, and was responsible for the Tartan victory over the Dukes. Munjas also is a bicker Of no mean ability, and there promises to be a good punting contest between tUese two player
players on both the Carnegie and the Pitt teams. When the first whistle blows, it will be the last opening kick-off Cor Co-Captains Lewis and Croft, sturdy Tartan chiefs. Besides these two, the Scots will also loose Burns and Goodridge, ends; Doloway, tackle; Vorderburg and W. Spisak, half11 do their best and last for Welostock. Munjas, Weisenhaugh, Shotwell, and Captain
Positions.On Varsity 
Soccer Squad Open
up' until April. Games have been scheduled.
has been playing
adequate chance t
Sigma Nu Fraternity I 
Wins Scholarship Cup |
dorms were Cedar Hall, Forbes Hall, and Mellon Hall last year. 
The complete list of ratings fot
i
16. Kappa Sierra .
Womens Don
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY,
COLOR,NEWS and COMM ERClALj
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
ftl K1.^ hk W. FEDEAXi 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Defeated 2-0
Boys From Bridgevilie; 
Prove Too Tough
The Carnegie soccer team wa 
feated last Thursday at 'the hands 
oC a very strong Bridgevilie 
bination, 2 to 0. The kind i 
lions of dame'luck was all that 
bept the score from balancing fur
ther in' the favor ot the opposing 
team. .For instance, one of tbe 
Bridgevilie forwards made* a shot 
at the goal which Kissel, stellar 
Tartan player, missed completely. 
The ball sailed by, but missed the 
target to rebound from the goal 
post, and was kicked again by a 
Bridgevilie man only to fly. above 
tbe goal.
The opposing team was much the i 
ic the second the Bridgevilie gang able to push through with a tt which Kissel at first averted by throwing himself to th ground protect his goal; he was unable reach the ball, however, when sped towards tne. marker a second time. The second goal was made near the end of the game, hen the Bridgevilie inside right rove a speedy one pp6t tho Tartan goalie with unexpected adroitness. 3t before the-half period the ;r ball split on tbe 9eam, forcing the clubs to use an unfamiliar
sr of-the game.The team is just starting Its Bearn. and those scheduled for the next two weeks Include Geneva, Rochester, Swlssvale and Munball. Other games in the offing are City, (Harmony, and
?'iSt^ripigS^pii
Prospects Pood; Squad 
Developing Rapidly
With;, footbali ' season'rapidly 
nearing completion, the attc 
of the school is turning to Max 
'Hannums basketball squad which has been  slowly  rounding*'' into shape since early this semester. Practice has given the lads a chance to show their wares and so far the indications ' for the approaching season are good.Sophs Add Strength .At present there are' ab'iul seventeen candidates out for the quad. Alter? football season Is
able t teams
powerful plebe outfit It looks like this may be quite HtsVo^ le. Such an arrangement shoul^peed up the Tartan attacl---------inbly and keen tho game
last without any weak substitutions. . Thesophomores' on.*' th squadi .Tvill ^dd' bothweight and height ,to the .outfit an^ . should
tnaJte it-.arStea'dler-team* AVpreseric-they :ar&'lackiti 'the bnildo type ot guard such'as Silverman Leonard used to be. but Hannum may borahle/to. illl-this'. vacancy with, Carlson.
To-Meet Wlllgs 
The schedule-is much the same eslast year's. However, ,the Athletic ' Council has consented t ' ft Special preseason meeting with Pittsburgh's flashiest semi-pro out* fit, the Willies. This should be' ' exceptionally interesting game and a big drawing card in this city ai both teams have great potential! ties. The Willigs established, quite' i record for themselves last year ud have practically the same outfit this season. The Plaid squad has been completely renovated and has  team which represents an unknown quantity. Their perfrom* In this game should be a good indication of the season's possibilities. *
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5323 FORBES STREET
 v  ,.wy.-JUELEJWTes...
The high five In tlmed .practice 
picked* ups32-P9ltsT(anct'>Mgtj 
picked up 120, total for the first five 
bfc^ng 1,395, showing the squad tn 
be, In the r&t(enal3$hainplonshlp
Tech fiarberShop
Craig and Sorbes'.Oakland,;; .. *
On Tli  h ksg v n g N ig h t
' and eVery Saturday Night thereafter
Formal Dance 
Hotel Schenley
One dollar per person 
including breakfast at midnight
Wednesday and Friday nights informal as at 
present. Special arrangements for parties of thirty or more. For information . . , Phone JIAyjflower 6400.
HEALTH BULLETIN
1. Wear sensible clothes, light
- beauty.3. The eyes need to be treated'with care and respect.4. The teeth need an inspectiontwiceMODERATION -XTREMISM
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
PIPB smokers everywhere have labeled Prince Albert "The 
Natioaa]JoySznokebecausetheyhave/bundirasuperiornjuc* ture of choice, top-quality tobaccos. Every himof "biteis re
moved from mild, mellow "P.A, by a Special process. One pipe fill of Prince Albert will prove to you why smokers say, "You 
never know bow good your pipe can taste until you try 'P-A,'*
Fringe Albert
 THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKE/
r. BrmUl Totaeoo oCAMELS COSTLiER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1934
THE 
CARNEG1E 
PLAID
edited by Nlgbt Schcot ctnieeto of COM,yoL Xnstftote of Technolog?. All views pinion* ' preutj jti1 tho
by to Editorial Boaxd of tie Day School
H. INGRAM E. F. "WHITE WILLIAM E. BAR
Thanksgiving
' The Staff of the -Plaid wishes .to extend to the entire night student .body its best wishes for a pleasant Thanksgiving Day. From .th lu* creased enrollment and tho reports of the students,. It seems obvious that many of us can give thanks .for the betterment of our Individual conditions during the past year. Tiiose who have not been so fortunate at least have learned from the steady improvement of
weeks and months  of unemployment and reduced income. And that in itself is something to be thankful for.'; The Staff, too, is thankful, and wishes to express its appreciation of the cooperation and aid that has been accorded it by the Night Student Council, the Tartan Staff, student contributors, and everyone else who bas in any way helped us is our efforts to carry on the traditions of the night school page.
NIGHT LIGHTS
Russ Lahrs favorite song (and ine he dearly loves,to plunk on the piano) is Deep in my Heart, but ...... Kd
theArts school bought with such loving-care1 that they-hung without a 'wrinkle . . . Jimmy Fisher has ' threatened to come to blows wjth , the-next person who criticizes his manner of placing a pallette on the wall . . The very nice stage decorations .were designed by students, of course . . . Thumb-nail sketch of . Bill Vensel: 11 years, at C. I. T. Is thinking of applying for a penAttend. Readsvlhe funny papers. Likes .''Wimpy." Second year in C.ouncil. Has decided preference foriiblondes. Looks as if lie knew, all the questions; anti . never-admits more than' 29 years of ege . Wer their faces 'red dept; That gatip of engineers i sponsible, for'the blowing out of breaker. In electric lab. last week were Bill Hodder, Otto Ehlers, ant A1 Snyder, who is the ~ Ducjuesm Light Co.s pride and -joy ... A R.Bumle' found the going too tough t Flne Arts, so he switched engineers this year, the softy
You're Telling Me?
That 1 wrote (spoke) out of turn, 
because the very'next ^sstie of the 
Tartan, this weeks, came out with 
the usual four sheets. Well, I guess ihe Scotch instinct Isnt so had after'all, although it is nice to have the full news at -all time.
That we are to have a dance on the first of December. The posters le the Thanksgiving Dai
on the twenty-ninth librate the occasion on the week-end. I'll bet all the lads and lassies will be to the affair.
olumns of the last issue of the Tartan that ticket salesmen are being solicited. I have often thought ould like to sell some tickets, but I cant find anybody who would buy them. However, my inability to sell them should not deter any 
2 making the attempt to !, and by the way, perhaps
That our next vacation is a little longer than the flr6t one.. Yes, we ' lys Instead of one, Thursday and Friday of this. week.: to be In session, I ire wondering why I
tie rest he feels like the house tops aboui that every night stu
holiday period.
Prizes Offered to 
German Students
 V:T1
KJ-Rltlochlnger boys dressed a . fetchln. of his trousers . Mrs. Nlkhazys little boy .' blossoming forth In knickei . iesB! . . . More fun but no people .killed . . . Harry Ingrams slight English accent Is pleasantly differLangs bangs,1 very successfully employed by Sally in our Alley . . . Anne Hanson, c. I. T.s little worryVwart sat on Duquesne's side all . through the Tech-Duke game,  ing her most cherubic smile and loudly and vehemently cheering for .Tech . . .. The Pbl Nu boys attended the game in a body, and :.-helped to celebrate the Tech victory at their bustnesB banquet aftei^ wards . . . Bob Lahr, who ws . on Armistice Day, spent the : noon watching the twins while his '. wife went to town . . . "What Price Glorv? . . . John Schurko 1s fast becoming a victim of the Thistle
' from the Registrars office -A1 Cor. doesn't make a habit of '.running out in his
-It-oeema that the publication of tho ' officers pictures is slowly turning . this , sheet into a dating bureau Nell Blochinger has increased his 7f^n mail by this means. (Yoo-Hoo, : .Peggy) ... All we can say about -;the recent mlspelllng of names here .: aid there is thatIf it loo!;.-,Vour name (and you have a guilty ^conscience) it means
Universities In Japan have only 36 women students. ' Rensselaer 
^Polytechnic.
INDIAN
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night  
Student
NSC Presents 
Holiday Dance
Final*: Arrangements Fr 
Affair Are Complete
ORCHESTRA CHOSEN
Logans Ambassadors "Play 
At First Council Dance
The final preparations, have been fnade lojr,.the ThanksglvlngRecess Dance-sponsored by the Night Student Council. The efforts of the students who are responsible for the success of this aJid other council affairs are undoubtedly going to result in the m09t enjoyable function ever held on the night campus. New and unusual decoration have been planned, and will transform Thistle Hall into an ideal spot for a dance.
Jack Logan and his Royal Ambassadors have been engaged to furnish the music for the. dance. This orchestra enjoys a high reputation amoDg those who have experienced the pleasure of dancing to Its music. The choice of this orchestra is in keeping with the effortbeing made to give tjie students the best that is consistent with the budget.
Among the guests who have been invited to attend this affair are: Dean Mn.ry Watson Green, Dean A. W. Tarbell, Messers. Harold A. Thomas, Glendennlng Keeble, Kent D. Shaffer, Michael S. SchonvUner, Charles W. Pitkin, Robert B. Leighou, Karl L. Jones and Glen U. Cleeton.
Everyone who has made a practice of attending the Council affairs from year to year has marked the
Council began to sponsor these affairs. At the: present time, every dance is a treat, and outsiders find it hard to believe that all this work Js planned and executed by night
Vice President of College of 
Engineering Has FineRecord
A. C. Grimm Responsible' 
For^the Success cf 
Engineers* Event
We are pleased to present, this week, the campus record of Mr. A; C. Grimm, who was elected to the
the annual Election Smoker of that College which was held in the Car negle Uriio'n on Saturday evening,
the present school year,
Mr.- Grimm who is registered for the Civil Engineering Course in the Night College of Engineering, has been on\ the campus for a number of years during which time he has become associated with the various Night School Social Functions. He is now serving.his second year as a member of tben Night student Council.
During the past year, he served his College in the capacity of Secretary. 'The success of the Engineers Banquet of 1933-34, was due to a great extent to the untiring efforts of Mr. Grimm in contacting the various concerns which donated'the souvenirs and novelties for tbe occasion. Mr. Grimm also acted as a member of the Scholarship Committee for the Night College of Engineering during the past year, having been appointed to the Comittee by Mr. Lois.
In recognition for his activities record, Mr. Grimm has been awarded the Insignia for the past two s. At the first meeting of the >ent Night Studont Council, which. was held recently.. he wus unanimously elected to the office of Vice-President of the Night Student Council for the year 1934-35. In this capacity it will be his duty to keep an accurate record of the
year by the Night Student Council.
Schurz Memorial Foundation 
Competition Announced
The Carl Schurz Memorial Founilion, in conjunction with the Department of Modern Languages, iB offering this year a set fcf Goethe's orks to an outstanding'undergradate student who is taking, or has taken, a course in German nt the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
must have completed at least -the :cond year o# German, C-234 i56 (formerly C224 or C-234,Teepeethe Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The award will be made on the basis of:(1) The students scholastic record in German; andie writing either of a short story in German  on essay in English on of the following topic:(a) some prase of Goethes life and works;(b) German contributions to American political and social life;(c) the cultural value of the study of the German language.
All those who wish to enter this competition ere requested to make knows, in writing, their wish to Dr. Kamman, Head of the Department of Modern Languages, not later than January 15. Further inDidja Notice
hope he sticks to the Job.THAT this roving report gets In my hair.THAT the Plaid Editor Is ( >ing (films).
on the chin from dear old 
Tech. .THAT two of the Night Students have been spending quite a lot of time In GreeTisburg late-nery?THAT the N. S. C. has de-. 'eloped quite a number of two Ingered typlets...THAT, the ax-PrcGident of trt6 has a new car. 'THAT kibitzers, are beginning o line up for free dance tickTiket Returns to Be 
Made to Wm. A, Vensel
If you are wondering what to d< with those tickets that you go through the mail a few days age the answer is to sell them. Whej you have exhausted your original supply, more tickets can be obtained from your class offlcors or from the Council room on the flrst floor of the Industries Building; As you no doubt know, It is necessari'
they are sold or not. Returns should be made as soon as possible after the dance to William. Vensel, Treasurer, Night Student Council, box 136, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh,. Pennsylvania. You can save yourself the price of a stamp if you use the interschool mail box In the basement of the Administration Building for
CoS. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
Penn Stale Has Many 
Student Organizations
One has little difficulty In finding kindred spirits at Pennsylvania State College. With many organl; tions on the campus, a' spec group is available to meet every' taste. There is an .aviation club, fencing society, nine musical and dramatic organizations, five orchestrans. nine literary groups and Tour e arts fraternities. Forty-six prosionalsocieties contact members of the professions for the student's benefit. Forty-one fraternities bestow Tionors for achievement in each field.
Fraternity Dance 
Plans Announced
Freddy Herrick WiU ifrcoisb 
Muic for the Occasion
Pbi Nu Fraternity has announc
ed that it will sponsor a dance to 
be held in Thistle Hall on the 
evening of December 8. Attendance at this function Is not confined to members. Tbe entire student body .nd tbeir friends are welcome. Freddie 'Herrick and his orchestra have been engaged to play at the dance. The-remembrance of his fine performance . at the recent  Arts Dance \viil undoubtedly tempt many to treat themselves to more of his music. Admission will be one dolJar per couple. Tickets may be obtained from members of the fraity, at the Council oilice or at the door the'night of the dance.
Tbe flrst open dance held by this organization was so well received that the Board of Governors has decided to make a permanent place on the social calendar for other such events. ______
Student Activities 
Workers to Report
Preparations - for the.  Trianksglvhig1' ^Recess darlC willbe made onThursday afternoon, November 29tb, at 2 oclock, and on Saturday afternoon, December 1st, at the same time. Workers are invited to come and help prepare Thistle Hall foe the dance. Those helping in tbe work of decorating the ball will be awarded credit towards a Night Student Council Activities Insignia. This will be a fine opportunity for those Interested
this end.rot points towards
| New Officers Elected 
. At Fraternity Dinner
The annual business meetlnr and election of officers of the PM 
Nu ,frfttpn4ty..w,a%;Jbeld..at earn*0ie Inn; November 17. Guests in eluded Dr. Roscoe m." lhrig]E. W. Orsterrelch of the Duqucsue Light Company, Mr. j. Allen, Mr 
A. Mag and Mr. G. A. Blochinger The election followed the dinuer and Robert Graham was elected director, A. J. Lois, Seneschal, and W. J. Noigot, herald.
West Virginia University conducted a vote to determine the size of the diplomas to be given at graduSchools were for the first tin Massachusetts.
LARGEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 to $75.00
Ll 'io! nt'a^tY pV, w ii'm; h" m 1Fi ret Tbree^Months Reniai Appllea
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.44 LIBERTY AVENUE
Creighton University the law student who makes the dumbest remark in class is allowed to wear the clsiss's Brown derby.
HAIRCUTS, 35cC. CICEROBarber Shop 
3709 Forbes Street
DINING ROOM 
/or SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, $4 
served well, in a B 
pleasant place' g 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND 
DINNER EVERY DAY
/or.ial'DM,
Call MISS DRISCOLLFor ReservationsMAytlowe 
ivcnue and Clyde
Harvard men, alike in college and as alumni, are 
alert to all that makes for progress in apparel; 
they were among the first to discover and adopt 
the Kover-Zip closure for trousersthey 
quick to see its many advantages over the exposed 
metal of the ordinary zipper.
Leading Harvard tailors, creators of fine clothes 
for college men, are fully aware of Kover-Zips 
superior qualities.
-OlU Isiukob Jeto us Boston tailor to Harvard 
" men, says "When our patrons
;ers or slacks equipped with a slide fastener, we are 
prepared to provide for this preference. It is obvious that 
the Kover-Zip closure in which no metal shows i
keeping with the require 
uncovered zipper with ii
its of good ta'ste than 
rip of exposed metal.
OutstanAinq college lailats, axilteiA 
nd>ze vez^cj? OJ llt Ails
P il /; custom clotitt
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriters all makes, Portables and Standards, sotcf, rented, repaired. $100 one month $10.00 five months.
American WritingMachine Company
tb
New York$1.50$13.50
to
hleago..8.5015.30
to
'Detroit...5.509.90
to10.0018.00
