YOL. 42No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949
Dr. Herbert Simon Appointed 
New Head of IA Department
IIT Chairman Starts 
Duties Here Next Fall
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, former 
chief of the Management Engi
neering Branch of ECA, will join 
the faculty next fall as Head of 
the Department of Industrial Ad 
ministration, President Doherty 
announced today.
Dr. Simon is currently Chair 
man of the Illinois Institute of 
Technology department of polit
ical and social science.
Conducted Studies
In addition to his Illinois Tech 
duties, Dr. Simon is a consultant 
to the International City Mana
gers Association, the U. S. Bureau 
of the Budget and the Cowles 
Commission for Research in Eco
nomics.
A graduate of the University of 
Chicago, Dr. Simon has been 
member of the Chicago faculty,
Carnegie has both a Depart
ment of Industrial Administra
tion, under a head, and the 
graduate School of Industrial 
Administration established this 
year by a six-million dollar Mel
lon gift, which will be adminis
tered by a dean.
Dr. Simon irfill head the de
partment; Dr. G. L. Bach, Head 
of the Economics Department, is 
currently Acting Dean of the 
School. Until Dr. Simons ap
pointment today, Dr. Bach was 
also Acting Head of the Depart
ment of Industrial Administra
tion.
assistant editor of Public Man
agement, and WcS director of a 
three-year program of administra
tive measurement studies in the 
Bureau of Public Administration 
at the University of California.
Prolitic Author
He was awarded his doctors de
gree from Chicago in 1942, and 
joined the Illinois Tech faculty 
that year. Author of several books 
in his field, he has also written 
prolifically for professional jour
nals.
He is a member of Phi Beta 
Kappa, Sigma Xi, Sigma Iota Ep
silon, the American Political Sci
ence Association, American So
ciety for Public Administration, 
Econometric Society, and the In
ternational City Managers Asso
ciation.
Ball Tickets 
Now Available
Tickets for the Senior Ball on 
June 14 will go on sale today 
at $1.30 each. Jeanne Gannon, 
chairman of ticket sales, urged 
seniors to buy their tickets at an 
early date since the sale will be 
limited to 400.
Music for the June 14 dance 
will be provided by Buddy Mur
phys orchestra and singer John
ny Kirby. Contrary to a previ
ous announcement, the dance will 
be a semi-formal, no corsage af
fair.
Mortar Board, sponsor of the 
dance, states that original ticket 
sales will be conducted through 
the separate departments. Seniors 
are urged to watch their depart
mental bulletin boards for the 
names of persons selling tickets in 
their sections. Any tickets unsold 
by June 3 will be on sale the 
following week at noon in Skibo.
Ethel Friedman, publicity chair
man, announced that the dance is 
open only to seniors and their dates.
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, new head 
of the Department of Industrial 
Administration.
S n S Plans 
1950 Musical
Review Will Present 
Skits On Campus Life
Scotch n Soda club has an
nounced that their 1950 musical 
will be*a review roughly follow
ing the theme of campus life, its 
gimmicks, gripes and guffaws. It 
will be made up of skits, black
outs and musical numbers which 
may be chosen entirely from one 
author-composer or from several 
authors and composers.
All scripts and music will be 
due in the Scotch n Soda post 
office box or in the hands of an 
executive board member by 5 
p. m., Friday, October 14, 1949.
In choosing to produce a re
view, the executive board hopes 
that they have opened wide the 
doors to everypne on campus who 
may have a favorite campus gag 
or an idea for a skit or melody, 
but who might not feel able to 
involve themselves in a complete 
show.
All scripts must be complete 
and ready to go into production 
and all music must be accom
panied by completed lead sheets 
at the time of submission. All ma
terial must be submitted with un
derstanding that the executive 
board of Scotch n Soda reserves 
the tight to ask for changes in 
material in the interest of the 
show or at the suggestion of the 
directors.
Council 
Of Class
To Determine 
Organization
Fate
Plan
Dormicon Announces Platform 
Which Candidates Will Support
Four Point Platform To Push Hare System,
Establish Board of Arbitration On Council
The replacement of the present machine-politics system of 
elections by the Hare system of democratic representation heads 
a four point platform announced by Dormicoms chairman John 
Fondrk as the one which its candidates are endorsing in the campaign 
for student council elections. The~ -------
other three points in the platform 
are:
2) To increase the usefulness 
of Council, Dormicom will make 
every effort to facilitate the presentaion of students individual 
and group problems to Council.
3) Establishment of a Board 
of Arbitration that will prevent 
stalemates from wrecking Coun
cils effectiveness.
4) Adoption of a Students Bill 
of Rights that will let you know 
where you stand with the admin
istration in student affairs.
Aimed At Minority Rule
The independents have long en
dorsed the Hare system of elec
tions. If they are successful in 
putting it through Council, they 
feel that it will prevent the unfair 
rule of campus minority groups 
in the future.
While the second and third 
points are aimed towards aiding 
the individual student, the third 
one, proposing the establishment 
of a Board of Arbitration on Coun
cil, is without a doubt the most 
important in the minds of Dor
micom representatives.
Prevents Bickering
According to Fondrk, the or
ganization of such a board on 
Council would save the majority 
of the time which is being turned 
into useless bickering-at meetings. 
It would also keep business which 
Council should act upon from be
ing forced into hands outside of 
the' body.
Along with their four point 
platform, Dormicom maintains 
that the foremost qualification 
for election to Council should be 
the amount of interest that the 
individual has in representing the 
students.
WCIT Initiates Wide Campaign 
To Resume Campus Broadcasts
WCIT, Techs long dormant radio station, has begun to exten
sive campaign to return to the air. In a report submitted to Stu
dent Council last week, John Fondrk summarized the many ex
isting problems and the steps being taken by members of WCIT to 
remedy these difficulties. . ?  
Prime obstacle facing the staSinclair To Present Class Officer Plan Providing 
For President, Three Vice-Presidents In Each Class
Student Council will hold a large segm eut of CITs future in its hands today when 
Robert Sinclair presents for approval a list of proposals regarding class organizations.
The proposals which Councilman Sinclair will present stem from Jack Johnsons ODK 
pledge paper, which was presented to Council earlier in the seme&ter. The plan calls for
^the election of a president and 
three vice-presidents for each 
class.
Colleges Represented
Each vice-president will repre
sent one of the three colleges and, 
in addition, a secretary and treas
urer will be elected.
Working with each vice-presi
dent will be a committee compos
ed of as many members as there 
are departments in the college. 
This board is to act in an advisory 
capacity, insuring diversified opin
ions and suggestions.
The committee shall give sug
gestions to the vice-presidents 
who in turn will carry the pro
posals to the presidents of each 
class. The four presidents will be
come non-voting members of Stu
dent Council.
Test Run 
Pressed for time and assuming 
Council approval, the committee 
working with Sinclair has gone 
beyond these mechanical plans. It 
intends to give the plan its test 
run on the incoming freshman 
class next fall.
A program for putting the plan 
into operation will be incorporated 
with freshman orientation week. 
During this period the freshman 
will be introduced to the plan 
which tentatively calls for the 
election of their officers to be held 
the week proceding Homecoming. 
Alumni Interested 
The plan is the fruit of the la
bors of Sinclair and seven other 
students working in cooperation 
with the alumni office which is 
very interested in the success of 
the proposal.
These students were selected 
from recommendations based on 
apparent interest in campus activ
ities, representation from each of 
the colleges, and on membership in 
organizations affected by the plan. 
Guiding Body 
The members of the committee 
and the colleges and organizations 
represented are: Richard Shaffer, 
Engineering; Robert Kubiak, Fine 
Arts; Catherine Rudy, MMCC; 
Theodore Goodson, Student Coun
cil; Lynn Gasche, freshmen ori
entation committee; Dee Moore. 
Margaret Morrison Senate; and 
Kitty McGowan, serving as secretary.
The committee, realizing the 
scope of the work to be done and 
the need for a strong central guid
ing body, . has voted itself into 
existence for at least a year, 
pending Council approval.
tion is lack of broadcasting and 
storage space. Though promises 
have been secured of better quar
ters when they become available, 
present plans call for the use of 
temporary facilities to be set up in 
the basement of the Union.
In addition to submitting a 
budget for next years operation, 
the members of the station have 
elected a summer staff to continue 
work on WCIT during vacation. 
Arrangements are being made to 
provide this summer technical 
staff with adequate space and fa
cilities to insure a station ready 
for operation next fall.
WCIT, together with other sta
tions, will confer with the FCC 
this summer in an attempt to 
justify carrier stations on col
lege campuses. In the event FCC 
decides against them, plans are 
being laid to establish an Educa
tional FM station to replace the 
existing status.
Silent for almost two years, 
WCIT, with these increased inter
ests and facilities, seems about to 
return to its prewar standards 
when as many as 115 students ac
tively participated in the station.
Election Notice
The all-school Student Coun
cil election will be held Fri
day, May 27, from 11:15 a. m.
to 1:45 p. m. Voting may be car
ried on at the following polling
places:
Engineers: Industries Hall and 
Engineering Hall.
Maggy Murphs: Margaret
Morrison College.
Arts Students: Fine Arts
Foyer.
All School: Skibo.
The candidates from each of 
the colleges are as follows:
Engineering
Ten positions open. Candi
dates: Frank Becker, John
Braum, Robert Carpenter, Rich
ard Holl, Joseph Holland, Char
les Koester, John Listwak, Fred 
Lunt, James McShane, John 
Steiner, John Stewart, Frank 
Witt, Arthur Zuch.
Fine Arts
Three positions open. Candi
dates: Robert Broida, Don Er
vin, Helen Lewis, Lester Rosenberger, Janice Seiner, Robert 
Stevens.
Margaret Morrison
Two positions open. Candi
dates: Ella Baum, Analee Gelman, Helen Grimes, Hilde Jac
ob, Suzanne Menger, Justine 
Richard, Katie Rudy.
Assistant Secretary
One postion open, all school 
vote. Candidates: Ruth Camp
bell, Katherine McGowan.
Students must vote for candi
dates from their school at the 
designated polling places. No 
electioneering will be allowed 
within 100 feet of a polling 
place.
Jim Reynolds
Elections Chairman.
And Furthermore 
I Do Promise ..
Following are the platforms 
submitted by candidates for Stu
dent Council:
Jack Braun, junior, printing.
The Hare System, in my esti
mation, is the best and fairest 
method of electing officers for the 
various organizations on campus. 
It should be used throughout the 
school in order that the best can
didates are elected for their re
spective offices.
I am in favor of a complete in
vestigation of all organizations on 
campus in order to prove their 
worth to the student body and to 
the school. Those that are proven 
(Continued on page 5)
Variety Magazine 
Is New Publication 
To App ear In Fall
A new variety magazine will 
make its appearance next fall on 
the campus, according to John 
Fockler, chairman of the publicationg committee.
Though plans are not yet defi
nite, the committee is holding 
meetings now to decide the actual 
format of the magazine.
The new staff will be appointed 
at a publications meeting on Mav 26.
Members of the publications 
committee who have assisted 
Fockler in the molding of the mag
azine include Ted Goodson, Laura 
Ehni, Walter Ambrose, Bob John
son, and Barry Rowles.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN"WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949
Editorials
The Perfect Example
On several occasions during the last year the 
question of the usefulness of various organiza
tions has been raised in Council and elsewhere. 
Evaluating usefulness is very arbitrary and dif
ficult. but pointing to an excellent example is 
very easy.
Alpha Phi Omega, campus service fra
ternity, has certainly been an above and 
beyond the call of duty organization dur
ing the past year. The efficiency of APO was 
shown early in the fall when it published the 
Activities Directory in record time. About the 
same time APO came to the rescue of the. 
school and helped to proof read the C 
Eook.
Evidence of the organizations integrity has 
been definitely established by the capable man
ner in which APO has conducted the all school 
elections. The fact that all thoughts of possible 
fraud in the counting of ballots have disappear
ed since APO has been handling the elections 
could alone easily be their claim to fame.
However, the list of services and functions does 
not end there. Serving as guides of tours of the 
campus for prospective students, organizing and 
operating a book exchange, publishing varsity 
basketball programs, and providing checking 
services at dances are other campus needs the 
organization has filled.
Because of the record APO has established, 
the group has been invited to help organize the 
Campus Chest and next years C-Book.
Alpha Phi Omega seems to us the best defini
tion of a useful organization.
Problem Solver
Whether Council accepts or rejects the class 
organization proposals that will be presented this 
afternoon by Councilman Sinclair will determine 
a great part of the future of campus life. We hope 
Council is up to the responsibility and that the 
campus is ready to cooperate with the plan if 
it is passed.
As was pointed out by Jack Johnson when 
he first proposed the plan, the organization of 
classes can aid both the students and the 
campus as a whole. We believe the organiza
tion of the classes is just what is needed to 
coordinate the rising spirit which has become 
so evident this semester. By making the presi
dents part of Student Council many of the 
good plans and ideas that are now lost can 
find a direct route to Council.
Another problem that can be solved by the 
proposal is alumni interest and spirit. At the 
present time the alumni have no rallying point, 
but a strong class organized during undergraduate 
years could provide a focus for their activities.
Most of these objectives are long range; how
ever, the organization of classes could serve useful 
purposes in the immediate future. Today the 
classes are widely scattered because of the depart
mental educational organization. This fault could 
be corrected by the organization of classes and at 
the same time each class would be in a position 
to sponsor some all school function.
Another Good Deed
i ai noif Tartan
OFfiCfcS Carnegie Union 5075 frorbes St. Pittsburgh. Pa. TELEPHONE: SC 4557; after hours MU 70X7, SC 8951. Pubtishea weekly during the scnooi year, except noiidavs ana examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh Pa
Editor in-chief ............................................. Albert F. KimmelBusiness Manager ............................................ Herbert StoneManaging Editor ............................................. Paul OffermannPersonnel Manager .................................... Robert J. Kubiak
News EditorTom Birch. Sports EditorBill Dorn. Copy EditorLloyd Dyer Makenp EditorRalph Painter, Advertising ManagerMorty Baker. Circulation Manager Clarence Smith.Headline EditorCatherine Rudy. Proof EditorJohn Braun. Assisstant Business ManagerArthur G. Zuch. Personnel AssistantRay Mangold. Chief ReportersLaura Ehni, Frances Hamborsky, Catherine Rudy, Nancy Sitler, Joseph Weinreich. Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger. Copy StaffHamilton Bartlett, John Gerum, Analee Gelman. Marj Cauffield. Robert Cloud. Elizabeth Asche. Ed Muttart. Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson. PhotographerLeland Green, Howard Miskill. Senior ReporterJoseph Weinreich.ReportersJo Crisanti. Angela Pollis. Judy Block. Alan Blotcky, A1 Bader, Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell, Nancy Sitler. Cup ReportersSally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Dorothy Rams, Edward Koos, Patricia Kelley, Sus MaoFadden, Dolores Mitchell, Shirlee Ploeger, Bee Potter Jane Robb. Anita Tabellini, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood Sports StaffRichard Barr, Gerry Conlon. Robert Dougherty. Charles King Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt. Art Mensing, John Roslund, Bruce Updike. Business StaffEdmund Demburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Powers, Herman P. Alexander.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING. Inc., College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave.. New Vork City. Subscription SI. 10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh. Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28. 1925 Authorized Octo
ber 21. 1918.
Cheating Issue 
Discussed
Student-Faculty Liaison Com
mittee, in an attempt to find pos
sible remedies for the practice of 
cheating on quizzes, asked Tau 
Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Pi 
Tau Epsilon pledges to write es
says on the subject. As a result 
of these essays, the following sug
gestions will be made to instruc
tors:
1. About four or five tests should 
be given during the semester so 
that the final grade will not de
pend too much on any one test.
2. The same tests should not be 
used year after year. Different 
tests should be given to sections 
taking their test at different times.
3. The tests should be given In 
a larger room, so that the students 
can not easily see each others 
work.
4. The students should under
stand that the instructor will not 
tolerate cheating. The instructor 
should be on the watch for various 
types of cheating.
5. Since the use of cribs is a 
common form of cheating, open 
book tests should be used wher
ever possible.
6. Methods and procedures 
should be given more emphasis in 
grading than numerical or factual 
answers in order to minimize the 
benefit from copying anothers 
work.
Fitter To The Editor
Further Comment On 
Disputed Hare System
Editor, the TAPiTAN:
I read with interest the article appearing in 
last weeks Tartan concerning the merits and 
faults of the Hare system. However, I feel that 
the crucial features of the election controversy 
were glossed over, and I would like to present 
them.
Now the weighted preferential ballot allows 
any well organized minority, by means of a pat
tern vote, to override the wishes of a numerically 
superior but unorganized majority. This is not a 
theoretical speculation; this is an irrefutable fact.
At Tech, ten of the social fraternities, by means 
of sttch a ruthless and completely unethical pattern 
vote, have in the past both controlled and emascu
lated Student Council. They have controlled Coun
cil because, while the average independent man 
will vote for whom he thinks is capable, the aver
age fraternity man will vote for only those men 
in his pattern. And this pattern is so designed that 
in actuality he is casting several ballots! Because 
of moral pressures applied to him by his fraternity 
he will vote for these men irregardless of their 
qualifications. This allows no competition for 
Council seats, depriving it of the support of the 
general student body it must have in order to be 
effective.
On the other hand, the Hare system is specifi
cally designed to prevent such party machine 
tactics. Under this system, in no way can a regi
mented vote gain more representation than is their 
just due  in proportion to their strength at the 
polls. And contrary to the statements appearing in 
the article, the voter can and does express his 
preference. In fact, ballots are marked in an iden
tical manner under either system. Mr. Bigleys 
statement that . . only the first, second, and oc
casionally the third places votes of the voter are 
ever counted was made either as a deliberate 
falsehood, or through sheer ignorance. Not only is 
this not inherent in the Hare system, but also APO 
has publicly announced that in casting ballots for 
the Carnival Queen, it was possible that a voters 
eleventh choice would be counted. And it was 
certain that many of the lower choices were in
strumental in electing the^Queen and her court.
Although the Hare system is complex in ex
planation, it is simple in operation. It is democratic 
and flexible, and its prevention of machine 
politics is again not a theoretical speculation, it 
is an irrefutable fact. On this basis its adoption 
is a vital step toward a strong and useful Student 
Council.
Sincerely yours,
John Fondrk
Young man with good connections
I
N a Bell telephone central office, this Western 
Electric installer is. connecting thousands 
of wires to new equipment to provide more 
and better service.
Hes one of 18,000 trained Western Electric 
installers who do this job for Bell Telephone 
companies. Crews are working in some 1,600 
central offices to connect new equipment 
which, like your telephone, is made by 
Western Electric.
 Western Electric is part of the Bell Systemhas been 
since 1882. This assures closest cooperation between 
people who design telephone equipment, people who 
make it and people who operate it. Their teamwork has 
given this country the best telephone service on earth.
Western Electric
Y oung ma gwi tihhdcdgie dnusi Srr,

---------------------------------------------------

^Muie  wetcr
fO<6.0600?
Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre -mild ripe, light tobacco No wonder more independLuckies tine touuu h F , tenseputs ent tobacco experts  auctioneers, buyers and wareiow ..  e"'^sJOU *hat>3 lhy it-s so important housemen-smoke Luckies regularly than the next two
tcTremember tha^LucKY Strike YOL.4 2.O No5LCCo leading brands combined! Get a carton of Luckies today!
Stute Mean* fine 7b6acco
So round, so firm, so fully packed - so free ond easy on^draw
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
 TEAKS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
RENT Agcfilyngiy
For the Rest of Your School Terra
$>50
p k-^$>
(7% r: -*
50A
900/ fewer errors /0 In English
gcfilyngiyd
All Makes a* Low a*soaso
AMERICAN TYPEWRITER CO.
Co"w/s."sC0 1019
WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949____________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Bamboo Gatdens
3531 FORBES STREET
MA. 7493
dMERICN hT^R>EP W-O 
d$T.E^$P C^. tTPI^EPPkE^
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERVED
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO
ifiyg yifYnyd
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
ELECTRIC CO.
(123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 211
Student Council To Investigate 
Necessity, Aim Of Delta Skull
Councilman Questions Legality Of Honorary, 
WCIT Given Confidence Vote, Budget Approved
Thousands To Witness CIT
Cyclotron Unveiled June 4
CIT will unveil its million-and-a-half dollar Nuclear Research 
Center in Saxonburg, Pa., Saturday, June 4, when some five thousand 
guests prevue one of the nations newest scientific developments. 
High officials from the Atomic Energy Commission and the Office
the former KDKA transmittingof Naval Research will be 
the first-day crowd of scientists 
and engineers, industrial and bus
iness leaders and newspapermen 
at the Center.
Main point of interest will be 
the 1500-ton synchro-cyclotron, 
one of the most powerful ma
chines of its kind in the world. 
Expected to produce protons with 
400 million electron volt energy, 
the atom-smasher figured promi
nently in the news recently when 
extreme difficulty was encounter
ed in transporting its two 90-odd 
ton copper coils from Brooklyn 
to Pittsburgh.
During the 11 a. m. to 8 p. m. 
open house Saturday, visitors will 
also inspect numerous other lab
oratories which have been built 
for auxiliary nuclear research on
The Carnegie synchro-cyclotron 
project began in March 1948 after 
Pittsburghs Buhl Foundation 
started it rolling with a $300,000 
grant. Financial help was also 
supplied by the Office of Naval 
Research, the Atomic Energy 
Commission, Westinghouse Elec
tric Corporation and other indus
tries.
Each visitor to the Center Sat
urday will be given a souvenir 
booklet which traces the history 
of atomic and nuclear research, 
explains the Carnegie machine 
and offers a living room course 
in physics written by Dr. Ed
ward C. Creutz, administrator of 
the cyclotron project.
Special
u-$IREP
Reports To Be Filed
Dave Sapper moved that any 
organization not turning in a 
roster by May 30 will not be 
considered for points and keys. 
This was accepted along with Ted 
Goodsons motion that a copy of 
all committee reports be submit
ted to the Tartan for reference 
purposes.
In an unofficial report of his 
investigation on the NSA, Henry 
Clay reported that the organiza
tion did not appear on the U. S. 
Attorney Generals list of sub
versive activities. He will con
tinue his investigation of the or
ganization.
Wandering Greeks
All wandering Greeks are re
quested to register at the Dean 
of Mens office by May 28.
Key Distribution
The new all school activities 
key will be distributed to all those 
who have submitted applications 
on Tuesday, May 31, between 
11:30 and 12:30 in the Dean of 
Mens Office.
Rosters Due
Membership rosters of all 
campus organizations for the 
school year 1949-50 were due 
May 11. Any organization not 
returning its roster to the dean 
of Mens ocice by May 31 will 
not be considered for point 
awards next year.
Booh Exchange
APO will again conduct its book 
exchange next fall and students 
are urged to hold their books and 
sell them at that time.
V A Notice
All veterans are requested to 
come to the Veterans Office, IH 
133, before the end of May for 
the following reasons: to have 
remaining entitlement comput
ed, to plan for registration for 
summer session or fall semes
ters, to report completion of 
course, to apply for supplement
al certificates of eligibility, to 
report intention of not return
ing to Carnegie Tech during the 
summer or fall of 1949.
Delta Skull, junior mens honorary, is in for an investigation 
to determine whether or not it is a necessary ^organization on cam
pus. This action was requested by Councilman Barry Rowles in an
attempt to determine the purposeand efficiency of the organization. 
? Budgets for seven campus or
ganizations were approved for 
next year, and Councilman 
Fondrk submitted his report on 
the status of WCIT. (The con
tents of this report can be found 
elsewhere in this issue.) At 
Fondrks suggestion, Council gave 
WCIT a vote of confidence and 
officially went on record as sup
porting the station.
Activities Haphazard
In commenting on Delta Skull, 
Rowles said, Im not saying that 
there isnt a need for a junior 
activities honorary on campusits 
simply that Delta Skull doesnt 
seem to meet the criteria usually 
associated with an honorary. Its 
basis for membership and its ac
tivities are haphazardits pres
tige rating and incentive values 
are practically non-existent.
Vice-President Meyers appoint
ed Councilmen Reynolds and 
Rowles to investigate the situa
tion and report their findings to 
Council.
Budgets approved were for 
WCIT, the Carnegie Technical, 
Womens Glee Club, Margaret 
Morrison Senate, Debating Union, 
Mens Glee Club, and the Kiltie 
Band.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949
Plaid Relay Team Sets Record Time
Paul OffermannsWash-Jeff Golf 
Team Faces Plaid 
In Season Finale
Carnegie Tech golfers, following 
up their victory over Waynesburg 
and theif tie with Westminster, de
feated Thiel last week 15^-2% 
and then lost to Grove City by a 
17-1 score.
In the Thiel match, played at 
the Pittsburgh Field club, Collins 
of Thiel was the low medal scorer.
The match with Grove City, 
plaj^ed on their home course, was 
the second loss this season that the 
Plaid golfers have suffered at the 
hands of the Grovers. Aiton and 
Davis, both of Grove City, were 
low medal scorers.
Tech will play host to W&J to
morrow at the Field Club in the j 
final match of the season.
Moke "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
Tennis Team 
Loses Twice
McConnell And Moon 
Score For Tartans
McConnell and Moon were the 
point-getters for the Plaid as the 
Tartan tennis team bowed at 
Grove City last Saturday by a 7 
to 2 score.
McConnell breezed past Topi pleton in straight sets 6-1, 6-4, 
while Moon, outstanding fresh
man on the squad, trounced Jones 
6-2, 7-5.
In a match played last Wednes
day, Bassett and Cronin scored a 
victory in doubles play as a 
strong Pitt team overpowered the 
Tartans, 8-1.
Sportscope
Tartans SpectacularWinning or Losing ; 
Bright Future Seen
Luehok Scores 
For Scots In 
Broad Jump
By Gerry Conlon
Despite the upsets which were 
staged in Carnegie Techs favorite 
events, the Tartan track team 
managed to take fifth place in the 
Tri-State Track Meet held at Slippry Rock last Saturday.
Carngie Tech, with 23% points, 
finished ahead of Geneva, West
minster and Allegheny. Slippery 
Rock, with 47 V2 points, won the 
meet. Grove City placed second 
with 36V2 points while Bethany, 
with 34, and W&J, with 24 V2, 
finished third and fourth.
Only Victory
The Plaids only victory came in 
the mile relay, the most thrilling 
race of the day, as Cassler, Dor
man, Price and Davies broke the 
old record established by Carnegie 
Tech in 1948.'
Cassler, running the first leg of 
the relay, took an early lead of 
10 yards and Dorman held it 
throughout the second place. Price 
slowly lost ground in the third 
leg and when Davies received the 
baton, Slippery Rock had pulled 
up even with the Tartans.
From then on it was a two man 
race as Toler of Slippery Rock 
and Davies ran shoulder ot shoul
der leaving the rest of the field 
behind. Up until the last five 
yards it was anybodys race but 
Davies, summoning his last re
serve, pulled ahead of Toler and 
stayed there to take first place in 
the record time of 3:32.3.
Luehok, with a jump of 206 
took second place in the broad 
jump and Green vaulted 11 feet 
to take third place in the pole 
vault.
Cassler Third
Cassler, . running against the 
same kind of competition he has 
been meeting all year, surprised 
everybody by coming in only third 
in both the 100 and 220-yard 
dashes. Wiewel, favored to place 
in the 220 low hurdles, failed to 
qualify for the final heat and 
Hammann was eliminated from 
the high jump when he failed to 
clear the bar at 58\
Davis and Dorman teamed up 
to win third and fifth places in the 
880-yard run. McKibben, running 
a fine race, placed fifth in the 
220-yard dash and Hammann took 
fifth place in the 120 high hur
dles to contribute the remainder 
of the Carnegie Tech score.
Let's 90 to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty lunches
Three Stores In the College 
District
6808 Ferbos Street Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street Oakland
Mats Plant)
3380 Boulevard ol the Allies
IN RETROSPECTIn the last issue of the year, and in 
our last appearance in this column, we thought it to be most 
appropriate to pause and reflect for a paragraph or two on 
the past year in sports at Carnegie.
Although the Tartans ran through three major and five 
minor sports without a successful season in any one of them, 
the past year proved to me the most spectacular on the Car
negie campus since before the war. From the very first football 
contest last fall, when the Skibos came so close to an upset 
win over Washington, until the final track meet at Slippery 
Rock last Saturday, Carnegie athletic teams were as interesting to watch as they were unpredictable.
The top news making feats of the Plaid following the 
Washington game could probably be classified as following: 
the defeat administered by Marietta in a ganie which pre
viously had all the earmarks of ending Carnegies losing 
streak; the food poisoning the gridders contracted at Akron 
the night before their clash with Oberlin (we had a hardrunning team that day); the student protest rally following 
the Case game (the administration was forced to come to its 
guns); the final game victory over Grove City that sent the 
campus into a three-day turmoil (was victory ever so sweet) ; 
the hot and cold basketball team that at times looked like 
world-beaters and at other times just looked; the four-game 
winning streak in basketball, longest in more than a decade 
for a Carnegie hardwood combination.
Wils Bill Donohoe resigned his dual position of foot
ball and basketball coach, and w'as succeeded by Dr. Eddie 
Baker and Mel Cratsley
And then there were the individual performers: Simcic, 
Williamson, Meyers, and company  from Monday through 
Friday they were invariably to be found on Walt Willoughbys 
tables, getting patched up for Saturday; Mike Theodorebad 
back and all, still enough to break season scoring record; 
Ernie Cassler and Ivor DaviesGuy Halfertys runners, un
excelled in their specialties.
Most unpublicized athletesDave Luckeyundefeated in 
three years of competition in swimming the breast stroke; 
holds pool record, Penn-Ohio meet record, AVPIAL record, and 
others. Jack Riehlplaying in the shadows of Theodore.
Behind the scene stars  Walt Willoughby  in eight 
months he built up Carnegies training room with whirlpool, 
diathermy machine, newly-painted tables, exercise bicycle, 
and a friendly atmostphere; receives a big assist for keeping 
much-needed Simcic, Meyers, Williamson, Theodore, and 
Cassler in action. Walter Burnscoach, friend, and advisor to 
every Carnegie athlete; sponsor of football banquet every 
fall at Pittsburgh Athletic Association; graduate of Chicago 
but a 100% Carnegie alumnus.
dfYh"nu
* fSk
CHHP.ONSH.P
U.S.I.T. o -wooi con*
/NfYh"nu19p
^CHAMPIONSHIP i m, AW.V.t.l.T.A.-WOOl COVI*
swYefnmudwnf 
giuund glnud
The Wright & D it son and it 
twin the Spalding Tennis Ball 
lead the field in official adop* 
tions , for Major Tournaments, 
including the U.S. Davis Cnp 
and National Championships.
SPALQtm
sers our Pine i) u* tPlaot
5816 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
.V.V.V.V.V.VV.V.V.W.V.V.V.V.V/.'.'.'.V.V.'.V.V.'.V,'
Mention
Sun
Worshippers!
ARROW
dwnygd C^. gnid
ARROW BASQUE 
SHIRTS M.50 UP
Give your torso a big 
break this summer 
with a few Arrow 
basque shirts.
Perfect for golf, 
tennis, or basquing 
in the sun.
See your Arrow 
dealer todayl
ou"iyliYy U wYu"Hiyswniad U dfmygd dwnygd
VWAV/AWAWA-AfAWWA*AW.V.V.VAVW/
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
himuYy"Dd eiud dwmf
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
TNT Still 
Undefeated In 
Softball Play
Federal League Pace 
Tightens As Tau Delts, 
Sigma Nu Are Stopped
With approximately half the 
season over it seems that all the 
softball leagues are evenly match
ed and will provide some tight 
races for the first place honors.
Only two teams remained unde
feated in league play this week. 
In the American League the Delts 
lost to Dramats and beat the Beta 
Sigs. In the latter game Weber 
pitched no hit, no run ball and 
allowed only two Beta Sigs to 
get on base as his mates collected
17 hits and 16 runs.
Tau Delts Topple
In the National League the 
TNTs easily beat the Sigma Nu 
Qs and the previously unbeat
en DUs to stay ahead of the pack.
The Federal league race prom
ises to be a tossup as the pre
viously undefeated Tau Delts and 
Sigma Nu P fell by the way
side. The Gringos were too much 
for the Tau Delts by a 12 to 3 
score, but in their next game the 
Tau Delts came back in the last 
of the seventh to beat the -Ps. 
Neither side played errorless ball 
but the Tau Delts had more time
ly hits and capitalized on the 
breaks.
Emanon Runner-up
Emanon and the Freshman Ar
chitects both moved into the run
ner up spot in the American 
League by virtue of a win apiece. 
The Architects easily turned the 
trick over Citcom B and Emanon 
squeezed by the Betas by one 
run.
DUs are currently second best 
in the National League by virtue 
of their three wins of the week. 
One of these was a last of the 
seventh one run victory over 
Sigma Nu Q in which the DUs 
scored 3 runs on a walk and a 
hit. La Grone of Sigma Nu had 
a home run. In their 3-1 victory 
over SAE, Koch allowed only 4 
SAEs to reach first. The third 
win was by a one run margin over 
TX.
TX remained in 3rd place be
hind the DUs by wining two and 
losing one. Included were a 10 
to 1 victory over SAE, 11 to 5 
over the Graduate Physicists, and 
the 4 to 5 loss to DU.
Crop of Homers
Remarkable along with Web
ers no hit game is Highbergers 
(PiKA) one hit victory over the 
Graduate Chemists. Only three 
chemists got on base and none 
scored.
Games this week resulted in 
several home runs. Oxley of TX 
conked one in his teams vic
tory over SAE; Repovz of Phi 
Kappa connected fn the Gringo 
Phi Kappa game, and Keats hit 
one for the Dramats as they beat 
the Delts.
Softball Schedule
Wednesday, May 254:30 p. m.Stanley Steamers vs. Citcom B, Field No. 1; Dramats vs. Delts, Field No. 2; Sigma Nu P vs. PiKA, Field No. 3; Tau Delts vs. Phi Kaps, Field No. 4.6:00 p. m. Clippers vs. Grad Chemists, Field No. 2.Thursday, May 264:30 p. m.Betas vs. Citcom B, Field No. 1; Kappa Sigma vs. Grad Chemists, Field No. 2; Beta Sigs vs. Stanley Steamers, Field No. 3; Sigma Nu P vs Phi Kaps, Field No. 4.
Softball Standings
Platforms
[Continued from page 1] 
worthy of continuation be aided 
and backed whenever necessary 
and those of little or no value be 
disbanned.
Robert Broida, architect sopho
more.
I stand opposed to petty in
dependent versus fraternity 
wranglings. Student Council is an 
all school governing body, and a 
councilmans ideas and actions 
should be on an all school level.
Robert Carpenter, mechanical 
engineering, sophomore.
I am interested in establishing 
cooperation within the Student 
Council itself as well as further
ing more cooperation between the 
council and the administration.
If elected to council, I will 
try to encourage more interest in 
campus activities. As a part of
this program I will support a more 
rounded social and athletic pro
gram.
Richard H. Holl, industrial ad
ministration, sophomore.
I am running for Student 
Council because I would like to 
see a new variety magazine on 
campus and WCIT re-established. 
Council needs members who can 
seek out jobs that need to be done, 
and someone with determination 
to carry out these jobs. I see these 
responsibilities and I am willing 
to devote my time and energy in 
carrying them out.
Charles J. Koester, physics, jun
ior.
Council is a working body. It 
ras shown itself highly capable 
of doing constructive work as well 
as routine duties. Hence council 
members should be ready and 
willing to work as delegates from 
the whole student body.
My aim as a member would be
to further Councils constructive 
efforts. This year social planning 
and class organization were stud
ied; next year the honoraries, 
Scimitars, Cwens, and Delta Skull 
could be given greater significance 
through worthwhile projects. 
Frederick E. Lunt, Jr., indus
trial administration, sophomore.
I base my candidacy for Stu
dent Council on the following 
points: to work for a further im
provement of varsity athletics and 
for improved conditions for var
sity athletes; to strive for a better 
relationship between the student 
body and the administration; to 
obtain a wider student representa
tion in all student organizations; 
and to eliminate the useless and 
unnecessary friction between the 
factions on Council, and encourage 
Council to perform functions of a 
more constructive nature.
John K. Stewart, Jr., mechanical 
engineering, junior.
Each faction on campus tries 
to work for its own selfish inter
ests rather than for the good of 
the school. Only through the co
operation and concerted efforts of 
commuters, fraternity men, and 
doim students alike, can the spir
it at Tech be built up to the high 
pitch of the middle thirties. If 
elected, I pledge to work for the 
betterment, not of any specific 
faction on Student Council, but for 
the betterment of Carnegie Tech.
Arthur Zuck, electrical engineer, 
sophomore.
I propose to support in the 
firmest possible manner, the work 
of such student publication as are 
now on campus, and to help them 
preserve their existence and priv
ileges, both of v/hich are now en
dangered by the mounting pres
sure of ambitious but unthinking 
students, who, ill-advised and in 
callous disregard of the hard la
bors of past and present staffs, are 
attempting to undermine these or
ganizations the better to serve 
personal ends.
AMERICAN LEAGUE Delta 4Fr. Arch. 4Emanon 4St. St. 3
Dramats 2Faculty 2Betas 1Citcom B 1Beta Sigs 1NATIONAL LEAGUE TNT 5DU 4TX 4ATO 2SAE 2
Grad Phys 1SN Q 1Cit. A 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE Tau Delts 4SN P 3
Gringos 4Kappa Sig 3PiKA 2Phi Kap 2
Grad Chem 1Clippers 149ers I
J SPEC/AL OFFE
TO THE GRADUATING CLASS...JUNE '49
You May Be Accepted for an Early
U. S. Air Force Aviation Cadet Training Class
nW V-T COE C R-NNEBE BOC.TC$EK kCOOIE. -O PI^BNEK 6E$8EE^ $>E CBEP -W ,0 
C^. ,FS5 C^. M>VPIRCNNV C^. k-OCNNV bTCNIWIE.K V-T kCV 6E CRREM$E. 
W-O CPPIB^kE^$ I^ $>E oq dq YIO a-ORE Y3IC$I-^ sC.E$ RNCPPEP P$CO$I^B I^ 
NC$E PTkkEO -O ECONV WCNNq
c-T BE$ C 8ENN7MNC^^E. R-TOPEK 3CNTE. C$ 4)vK000 9 * * $>IP n^RNT.EP C6-T$ 
,v >-TOP -W WNIB>$ $OCI^I^BK C^. $>E WI^EP$ C3IC$I-^ E.TRC$I-^ C^. EGERT
$I3E $OCI^I^B I^ $>E 8-ON.q
Wilt your wings and then start a career with a future . 
College men are today's leaders of the U. S. Air 
Force. With new and complex aircraft and equip
ment being developed, scientific research becomes 
more and more important, increasing the need for 
college-trained men.
Aa a college graduate you will have an unlimited 
future in aviation fields of personnel manage
ment, operations, matriel, supply, research and 
development.
Its a year of learning, flying and time for recreation 
with a hand-picked top-string team of Americans.
Upon assignment to an Aviation Cadet class you 
will be sent to one of the U. S. Air Force bases
OFFICER CANDIDATE SCHOOL FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES
If you can meet the high standards required of candidates for 
officer training, theres a real future for you in the U. S. Air 
Force. Capable young executives are needed for positions of 
responsibility in non-flying assignments i ;. management, com
munications, engineering, research and other fields. That is why 
the Air Force is offering qualified, ambitious men and women 
with college training an opportunity to prepare for leadershiD in the air age.
in Texas for the worlds finest aviation training.
Here you will receive about 175 hours of flying 
instruction in the Texan T-6 trainer plus an ex
tensive course in aviation education and execu
tive training. Navigation, fuels, weather, radio 
and radar are some of the subjects you will take.
During this training period youll find plenty of 
hard, fast action to keep you fit and trim ... the 
best athletic facilities are available. Upon com
pletion of training, you will win your silver wings 
and receive a Reserve commission as second lieu
tenant in the U. S. Air Force. Outstanding gradu
ates receive Regular commissions upon graduation.
oq dq Yyec C^. oq dq Yny amysi yisyongnu diyLnsi
WIN YOUR WINGS
U. S. AIR FORCE
Single or married men with two years of college (or who can 
pass an equivalent examination) between ages of 20^ind 
26% with high physical and moral qualifications, act now! 
Get full details at your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting 
Office or write: Chief of Staff, Headquarters United State* Air 
Force, Attention Aviation Cadet Branch, Washington 25, D.C.

---------------------------------------------------

Every ISite This Week
y-^^IE "ECT3INNE
Dr..He
MVC6S
 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Bulletin Board
E. E. Department Sets Date 
For Picnic At South Park
The Electrical Engineering De
partment will hold a picnic for 
seniors, grad students and facultyon Thursday, June 9. It will be
gin at 4:00 p. m. at the community 
house at South Park. Refresh
ments will be provided.
Dorm Council Elects Officers, 
Announces Annual Picnic
Mens Dorm Council elected 
new officers last week.
Those elected include Louis J. 
Shulick, president; John M. En
gle, budget director; and Allen 
Greene, property custodian.
The annual mens dormitory 
picnic will be held at the main 
lodge, North Park, on Saturday, 
May 28. *
McNutt, Sophomore E. E. 
Named Citcom President
Harold McNutt, sophomore 
electrical engineer, was elected 
president of Citcom last Thurs
day. Other newly elected members 
of the executive board are Ronald 
Spray, vice-president; Bill West, 
treasurer; and Charlotte Meister, 
secretary.
Citcoms new president is the 
present editor of the Citcommentator and is the cadet-colonel of 
Carnegies ROTC unit.
At the last executive board 
meeting, the appointment of Mr. 
Lawrence McNamee, English in
structor, as faculty advisor was 
approved.
Also elected to new positions 
are Onorio Colucci, athletic chair
man; Howard McCoy, membership
chairman; Jack Cook, general ac
tivities chairman; Dee Douglass, 
social chairman, and John Sharbaugh, publicity director.
Claymore Clan Announces 
Election of New Officers
Claymore Clan, mens dormitory 
activities honorary, held elections 
for fall semester on May 12. New 
officers are as follows: President 
and Social chairman, Louis J. 
Shulick; Vice-President and Mem
bership Chairman,, Walter G. Gall; 
Recording Secretary, Henry A. 
Pawlicki; Corresponding Secre
tary, William D. Kesling; Treas
urer, Robert D. Rung.
The last activity that Claymore 
Clan has scheduled for this se
mester is a picnic at North Park 
on Saturday, May 28. Transporta
tion will be provided and tickets 
will be distributed in the mens 
dorm during the week of May 
16-22.YgnC^$IE ))5
Youn gmaw awi You tahdn mc eossSgoor hcr gmaw ,ossifin aoo
nW V-T 8C^$ C eIN.EO sIBCOE$$E 
I$DP swidgiyanih"
g>C$DP 8>V I$DP eV sIBCOE$$E
STARRING IN
"YOU'RE MY EVERYTHING"
A 20 CENTURY-FOX TECHNICOLOR 
PRODUCTION
194.& Mrtn Younno gom
>
Blue Cross Insurance 4
Due No Later Than June 1 *
WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949
Wayne Ashbee Named Latest 
Head of Scabbard And Blade
Results of the recent Scabbard 
and Blade election show Wayne 
Ashbee, president; John Mays, vice 
president; Harold McNutt, treas
urer; and Charles Vaughan, Jr., 
secretary. John Mays was also 
apponted as chairman of the an
nual Military Ball to be held De
cember 3.
Blue Cross insurance premium 
payments for the quarter of June 
through September will be ac
cepted no later than June 1. It is
suggested that all group mem
bers prepay their account through 
December to eliminate the possi
bility of a lapse in policy in the 
fall.

---------------------------------------------------

"WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
AoR SALE  Kitchen and 
front room furniture, only six 
months old. Moving out of 
state at end of semesterhave 
to sell. Phone FR. 7132 after 
6:30 p. m.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Co-editors .......................... Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelich
Associate Editor.......................................... Raymond Schwalm
Circulation Manager ....................................... George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
when you smoke PHILIP MORRIS!
Top ranking doctors  
eminent nose and throat specialists 
actually suggest EGISIT YoRRI4 in cases 
of irritation due to smoking.
Find out what a difference it makes... 
what a pleasure it is to smoke Americas AI.O4U 
Cigarette. Try a pack of EGISIT YoRRI4 today!
YOU'LL BE GLAD TOMORROW 
YOU SMOKED PHILIP MORRIS TODAY!
btSimHo
'T>f)t(/Teiy
taurxn"*
than any other 
leading brand!
NO OTHER CIGARETTE 
CAN MAKE THAT STATEMENTl
PHI UP MORRIS
Thirteen Eligible For
Degrees In Science
Candidates Have Spent Average 
Of Ten Years In Evening School
This year there are thirteen students who are candidates for 
bachelor of science degrees in the evening school of engineering.
Candidates for a degree in metallurgical engineering are: Ray
mond Bensey, Charles Cline, Jack Edgar, Chester Kielar, and Donald
mechanical
Final Examination
Final examinations of the 
spring semester will begin 
Tuesday, May 31. Schedules of 
the examinations have been 
posted on the bulletin boards. 
Registration for the supple
mentary term will be held Fri
day evening, June 10, with 
classes beginning Monday, June 
13. '
PLEASE DO NOT ASK OR 
PHONE FOR GRADES. Grades 
will be mailed out within a 
short time after 'the end of the 
semester. Students who expect 
to register in the supplemen
tary term may secure their 
grades the evening of registra
tion.
Spring; mechanical engineering: 
Francis Havrilla, William Vogel, 
and William Young; electrical 
engineering: David Jones, and
Chester Meyers; and management 
engineering: Robert Brown, Ray
mond Thompson, and Arthur 
Uber.
These students spent an aver
age of ten years in eyening school 
to reach their goal. They prove 
that it can be done and should 
serve as a impetus to the young
er fellows.
It definitely is a long hard 
grind, but half the battle is keep
ing up ones morale when the go
ing gets tough. The fact that the 
number of students graduating 
from evening school is steadily in
creasing is proof enough that it 
can be done if the incentive is 
great enough.
uE8P And LIE8P
by Frank Mihelich
Pardon us if we begin our closing News and Views with htanks 
to the readers who may have thought our column interesting 
enough to read during the school year. Dont get us wrong, we are 
just making a bold assumption that anyone has read us for nary 
a note, word or comment have wef
received in the many weeks that 
we have headed our information 
to evening students as News and 
Views. We sincerely hope that 
the new editors of the Plaid for 
the school year 1949-50, Bob Ell
strom and George Schulser, will 
have more success in shaking eve
ning students out of their apathy.
Although the fellows were 
rather reluctant to buy raffle tick
ets from Council President George 
Bogovich for the beautiful com
bination television, radio and 
phonograph set, most of them are 
now be-moaning the fact that they 
didnt buy any since they now 
know that George sold the lucky 
ticket to  member of evening 
school administration, Registrar 
Dalziel McKelway.
Strange that genial Bob Ell
strom should parade through Inlustries hall whistling a funeral 
dirge (honestly we heard him) 
now that Muriel has promised to 
become Mrs. Ellstrom on August 
26.
Evening Student Council mem
ber Jim Frape has returned from 
his trip from Arizona with souve
nirs of the west and a few ideas 
which he hopes to incorporate 
into jewerly designs.
Incidently, Tony Miscamarra is 
minus his fraternity pin, and if 
that is significant we probably 
will hear of his intentions any one 
of these days.
Ray Schwalm still has one more 
chore to perform as social chair
man of Council, the picnic he is 
planning on June 12 to acknowl
edge the work evening students 
have done in helping Council 
with its extra curricula activities.
Vice-President Will Schnarrenberger passes on the information 
that three members x>f Evening 
Student Council have had perfect 
attendance records at Council 
meetings, * George Bogovich, Ray 
Schwalm and Frank Mihelich.
Phi Gamma Phi, evening school 
sorority, is closing the social sea
son on campus with a dance to be 
held June 17 in Thistle Hall. This 
affair is open to all evening stu
dents and will be semi-formal 
with the tariff pegged at $3.00 per 
couple.
Senior Ball
All graduating night school 
students who are interested in 
attending the Senior Ball on 
June 14 may get tickets at the 
night school office.
Phone MU. 7995
Mollies 
dfYwiggnK wmodi
Steaks - Chops - Ravioli
5FS8L2 a-O6EP d$q fI$$P6TOB> S)K fCq
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 1949
Pop Weitz Leaving Chem E Lab
by Ray Kondrat
When next year's senior chemical engineers come down to the 
sub-basement of Engineering hall for their unit operations lab one 
thing will be certainthey will not be greeted by Pop Weitz, the 
originator of the lab. Augustine H. Weitz, better known around 
Tech as Pop, will resign his4 
position in June after a 30 year
tenure as an instructor in the 
chemical engineering department.
Pop was graduated from Car
negie Tech in 1915 with an engi
neering degree and worked as a 
chemical techinician in industry 
until 1919. He then returned to 
Tech and became a faculty mem
ber of the chemical engineering 
department.
Laboratory Needed 
After -teaching various courses 
in the department he realized the 
need for a laboratory where more 
practical experience could be 
gained by the Chemical Engineer
ing students.
In 1933 he was given the job 
of setting up a unit operations 
laboratory and its subsequent 
course of instruction. It all start
ed out as a half finished, empty 
sub-basement and is now one of 
the most valuable parts of the 
chemical engineering curriculum.
A Personal Library 
The first thing that Pop shows 
all the students that take his 
course is his personal library 
tucked away in the middle of the 
evaporators and distillation columns. Stacked with books he has 
bought and which senior classes 
of the past years have presented 
to him, his library is open to all 
students and has assisted many a 
Chemical Engineering student who 
was having difficulty.
During the past few years Pop 
has been spending his spare time 
and vacations in Forest County 
where he has eight acres of 
stumps and stones. From now on 
he plans to spend all his time 
there gardening, fishing, and just 
taking it easy.Pop Weitz
\hnard Studios 
Fine Portraitures
Application prints and 
photostats in a hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Boom *18
fmdngnmud mfiu 
s175 to $225 a month
Senior Men and Women
ADVERTISING  MERCHANDISING  CHEMISTRY 
TRANSPORTATION  BUSINESS  HEAVY INDUSTRY
There are positions open in these fields where you will work 
as an assistant to an executive and should soon quality for 
an executive position yourself  just as youve dreamed 
of doing. Your college placement office has these jobs, too. 
Butyou must have shorthandand you can get Speedwriting (the easy-to-learn shorthand system that uses ABCs 
instead of symbols) in only 12 to 14 weeks evening school 
(inquire about special short day course). Actually before 
the summer is on, employers will be begging for YOU. The 
best part of it is you can start right away. Classes are filling 
up, so register soon. Inquire D. C. Finkelhor, Dean, Business 
Training College, 634 Penn Avenue.
Call Grant 7227
Campus Chest 
Set For Fall
Campus Chest, newly formed 
organization for combining all 
campus charity drives, is now a 
functioning organization since the 
approval of its constitution by 
Student Council two weeks ago.
The purpose of the Chest is 
to concentrate the efforts of stu
dents and faculty and thus carry 
out one efficient charity drive 
next fall. There will be no other 
direct solicitations by separate 
charities during the remainder of
Thistle Notices
Anyone interested in workon the advertising or circulation 
staff of the Thistle please re
port to the Thistle Office in the 
Union on Tuesday, May 31, at 
4:30.
The annual banquet for the 
members of the Thistle staff will 
be held on Thursday, May 26, at 
6:30 p. m. in the Church of the 
Redeemer, 5700 Forbes Street.
the year, reported Bob Horsch, 
chairman of the organizing com
mittee.
NATION-WIDERAIL-AIR SERVICE
sYdw fYn"
Or c-T sC^
gyY"i cmoymh" gig tmmHd
-FO II -)0pe-OE
ON ANY MERCHANDISE IJV THE STOIIE
P5q00 I^ oPE. gEG$6--P tTVP Pvq,0 I^ --.PxmWWEO iG$E^.P o^$IN ;T^E r
Student Book.Exchange
CNN FIFTH . AVENUE
d Sq00 I^ odi" gigtmmHd
f.  *n$ T3 4(q,0 I^ eEO2%NC^.IP!
Ours is a Trade That Service Made
