Stanley Jordan Goes Virtually Unnoticed See Diversions 
Campus Fights Back in Support of GALA See Op-Ed
r*T| m aIne tartan
Volume 81, Issue 23Carnegie Mellon UniversityApril 21,1987
No Tops, No VAX, No Reason to Live...Blackout Plunges Campus 
into Two-Day Darkness...
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
aifsin csioomfeskf
The cause of the blackout, which affected most buildings south of Forbes, cannot be 
agreed upon by the staff who restored power. 
Richard Sikora, Manager of the Underground 
Department of Duquesne Light, found "the 
odds are that the cable fault is where the 
steam line" crosses Margaret Morrison Street 
along Boss Hall.
Neal Binstock, Director of Administration 
for Physical Plant, does not think a steam 
leak caused the outage, though a leak is 
nearby. Physical Plant has not pinpointed 
the location of the leak, but has erected a 
vent on the sidewalk of Margaret Morrison 
in front of Boss Hall to realieve some of the 
pressure. Binstock measured the cable that 
was replaced between 'Schlag and Donner 
manholes and could not find steam damage.
Bob Anderegg, Senior Facilities Safety 
Analyst, however said Friday "there is a 
good, strong possiblity that steam may have 
gotten into [the Donner] manhole. The 
water we pumped out of there was hot." 
Physical Plant believes the leak in under the 
street and postponed fixing it as to not 
distuib Carnival and Graduation.
The blackout began at 5:27 p.m. Monday,
 
April 13. Initially affected were 
Hamerschlag Hall, Scaife, Porter, Hunt, 
GSIA, the Gym, Margaret Morrison, CFA, 
Skibo, UCC, Donner, Tech House, and all Hill dorms. Porter, Scaife, and the UCC 
were restored in a four hour period by 
transferring circuits. The rest of campus 
remained in darkness while Physical Plant tracked down the break.
Shortly after 11 p.m., Security answered a 
call t investigate smoke coming from the 
manhole outside of Donner. A cable fire was in progress. Duquesne Light was called 
in because of the magnitude of the damage, though the cable was CMU's responsiblity.
By 8 a.m. a full compliment of Duquesne's 
underground team was on campus 
implementing a repair strategy designed in 
the early morning. Two breaks were found in the cable and split, dated from 1960.
Physical Plant believes that ground 
movement and water seepage wore away 
insulation, causing a short and fire.
Power was fully restored shortly before 10 
p.m. Tuesday.This was the worst blackout on campus 
since 1977 when a crane fell behind 
Hamerschlag, plunging the entire campus 
into darkness.
while Students Cope 
However They Can
BY ERIC W. LEULIETTE
aifsin csioomfeskf 
The reaction to the blackout was varied 
among staff, faculty, and students. Security 
called in ten officers to work overtime protecting dorms and buildings. University 
Dining Services trucked out food which 
needed refrigeration. Students flocked to E&S Library or Morewood, or resorted to 
partying or studying by candlelight. In 
Margaret Morrison Apartments, students gathered on front steps with candles, 
flashlights and barbeques. Nora Navin, a 
freshman in H&SS couldn't do anything on 
the computers, so I went to bed early. 
Sophomore Computer Engineer Stew Levine 
played whiffle ball in front of Donner. When asked what he did during the blackout, Russ 
Seligman, a sophomore Applied Math 
major, told The Tartan I live in Doherty, so 
I had lights. Ha-ha-ha...
photo by Andy Gillespie
Senate Election Results
Student Government President
Andrew Robitshek 316Allen Greenberg 275
Toby Ayre 153
Vidal Graupena 122
John Rentzepis 59Shep Bostin 56
CFA Senators (3 seats)
Glenn Kornbrek 
Norman Larson 
Dalit Berkowitz
9690
79 (Fall seat)
H&SS Senators (3 seats)
Shoshana Samuels 
Peter Berger 
Hal Levine
112
119
CIT Senators (4 seats)
Tamal Mukherjee 182 Laurie Gallo 167 
Jeff Trull 111
Elise Friedman 98
MCS Senators (2 seats)
Lisa Christina 99 Toby Ayre 90
Total Voters 1074
Campus Percentage 20.7%
MTV Holds VJ Auditions On Campus This Week
The morning after the blackout students were greeted with a message from President 
Cyert that the blackout would not mean the 
canceling of classes or assignments. Hill 
dorm residents found friends in Morewood with hot showers or braved cold showers 
after the hot water tanks drained. Dozens of 
unshaven students attended classes.Security has a variety of concerns during a 
blackout. University computers are protected 
by Halon, a gas released if smoke is detected. 
The devices to release this substance had to 
switch to battery power. Also, rare books in Hunt are kept in a humidity controlled room 
that shuts down without electricity.Computers in Wean Hall had to be shut 
down even though that building had power. 
Air conditioning to the building is on a 
separate circuit, which had lost power.
Security had no major incidents during the 
power outage.
When Cliffe 
speaks, people
listen. See Features 
for more on Cliffe.
By ALEX HOOSHMAND
aifsin csioomfeskf
An introductory meeting for MTV's 
campus VJ auditions was held on Friday, 
April 17 in the Wherret Room. Don 
Marinelli, Assistant Head of the Drama 
Department, was present to explain the 
details of the tryouts to interested students.The audition at Carnegie Mellon is part of 
the MTV College Caravan Screening Test, 
an attempt to find a new VJ from amongst 
ten of the nation's colleges. Carnegie Mellon 
was chosen due to the reputation the Drama Department here enjoys amongst the top 
artists of the country. Other schools known 
to be involved in the screening test are Northwestern! University and University of 
Maryland. The reasoning behind MTV's 
decision to choose a VJ from a college lies in the high percentage of college students 
making up their audience. Some students at 
Carnegie Mellon, however, pointed out that 
CMU's involvement is somewhat ironic
since MTV can not be accessed on this campus.
The preliminary meeting on Friday is to be 
followed by a general audition on the
morning of Wednsday, April 22. This part of 
the audition is to be limited to 125candidates from which 25 will be picked for 
further trials to be carried out on the
afternoon of the same day. They will be
asked to construct a video resume explaining 
their past relationship to MTV and what 
might distinguish them as an MTV VJ. 
Next comes an interview with an imaginary 
rock celebrity. The interview is to highlight 
the candidates' "rock insight", "intelligence", "research ability" and "personal style" according to a letter from Allen Newman, an 
MTV executive producer, to Don Marinelli. 
The battery of tests will be concluded with a 
"rock theatre game" and a music video 
history test. All proceedings are to be video 
taped and viewed by MTV officials. If a
cdhtinued on page 3Shapiro Leaves Drama Dept.
By ALEX HOOSHMAND
aifsin csioomfeskf
The resignation of Mel Shapiro, as the head 
of the Department of Drama, was announced 
by Akram Midani, Dean of the College of Fine Arts on March 27. Replacing Shapiro 
as the head of the department is Elizabeth Orion, acting head since last summer.
Professor Shapiro had expressed his desire to be relieved of his duties in order to make a greater contribution to the artistic and 
creative needs of the program and the
students. He will remain of the faculty of the department to teach directing.
In responding to Shapiro's request, Midani 
expressed his "gratitude and appreciation for 
the enormous effort he [Shapiro] put into 
directing the Drama Department." Cited was also Shapiro's "exemplary" work on the production of "The Greeks" .
Professor Orion's position as head of the 
Drama Department is to be a temporary, 
dependent on the success of an outside search for a new head.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 21,1987
World
News
MVIf\\M^7/
Reagan Advised to 
Nix 1/3 of Covert 
Operations
A review of U.S. intelligence operations 
reportedly is recommending that the Reagan 
administration cancel nearly a third of its 
covert operations. Sundays Washington Post quotes unidentified officials as saying 
the review determined that some of the operations were outdated. The review, 
conducted by an interagency White House Task Force, was ordered by President Reagan 
after it was suggested by the Tower Commission.
Waiters' Drummer Killed
Police in Jamaica report Carleton Barrett, 
drummer for the late reggae musician Bob 
Marley,was shot and killed outside his house 
in Kingston. Police say Friday nights 
killing is under investigation. Barrett, a 
member of the Wailers musical group, had 
just returned to Jamaica following an 
engagement in Miami.
London Punks Go On 
Rampage
Hundreds of punks fought with each other 
and police in the streets of South London 
Saturday night after a concert by the group 
Conflict, but Scotland Yard savs it was
not a riot. Six policemen were reportedly 
injured, and 500 punks arrested. Witnesses 
say a subway station had to be closed down, 
and streets cordoned off as the punks 
rampaged through the street
Soviets Held 2 
Underground Tests 
on Sunday
The official news agency Tass reports the 
Soviet Union conducted a pair of 
underground nuclear tests Sunday. The tests 
were the fifth and sixth blasts since the 
Kremlin abandoned a unilateral moratorium on testing in February. Tass said the tests 
were conducted in the interests of the 
national economy, but gave no other 
details.
Easter in Jerusalem is 
Peaceful
The holiest day in Christiandom was 
celebrated around the world. In Jerusalem, 
the crowds of worshippers were bigger than last year as fear of terrorism has apparently 
subsided. And at the Vatican, a recent bout 
with a cold didnt keep the Pope from 
celebrating Easter Sunday mass on the steps 
of St Peters Basilica.
PLO Scraps 
Agreement with 
Jordan
Palestine Liberation Organization 
Chairman Yasser Arafat has bowed to 
hardliners and scrapped an agreement with Jordan for a joint peace effort toward Israel. A radical PLO faction leader announced the 
Arafat move designed to mend fences with
Palestine opponents.
4 Die in Avalanche
An avalanche in the Swiss Alps has killed 
four skiers and left another injured. Eight people were skiing together when the wall of 
snow came crashing down upon them. Three 
who escaped dug out other skiers, but only 
one of those they rescued survived.
Falwell Calls 
Bakkers' Salaries 
Horrendous
The Reverend Jerry Falwell is using words 
like horrendous to describe salaries paid to 
former PTL head Jim Bakker and Bakkers 
wife, Tammy. Falwell, who took over PTL 
at Bakkers request, says figures reported by 
The Charlotte Observer appear to be 
essentially correct. The paper says the 
Bakkers received nearly 1.6 million dollars 
in salary and bonuses last year.
Shark Attacks Girl in 
Texas
Authorities of Nueces County, Texas will 
be touring 21 miles of beaches along the 
Gulf of Mexico, looking for sharks as they 
decide whether to close the beaches. A shark 
attacked a 16 year-old girl and severed her arm Saturday as she swam with her father, 
who battled the shark away with his fists.
Hinckley's Case 
Being Questioned
Experts in the field of psychiatry, law and 
forensic medicine will be called on to review 
procedures at St. Elizabeths Hospital, the 
facility where John Hinckley, Junior is 
being held. The National Institute of Mental 
Health is forming the panel after questions 
were raised about hearings on Hinckleys request to visit his parents. The hospital 
withdrew the request last week, after the 
disclosure that the man who shot President Reagan had written to convicted killer Theodore Bundy.
Chicago Building 
Raising Complaints
Chicago has seen the future, and it 
apparently doesnt work. The State of 
Illinois Center, dedicated in 1985, is a round, 
red and blue glass building once hailed by 
Illinois Governor James Thompson as the 
first office building of the year 2000. Now, 
its become the focus of lawsuits over its 
design and complaints by its occupants 
about heat and acoustics. As for its aesthetic 
value, an architecture expert says: You either love it or hate it
|'::NeWs blurbs app^ri wurt^y 
of the Associated Pres&lij
yuffkbseunr: In last week's Tartan, a
story was incorrectly tided as "Senate 
Adopts 2/3 Voting" Senate didnt pass this amendment 
The smoke appearing at Carnival's closing ceremonies came from AB Tech fog 
machines. This was incorrectly reported.
aherslk yu-kdesuf cifi Rid'r nimk mir 
enbuffkbsly pfenskd en shk kdesufeil.
Our reputation stands for auality 
haircare and up to the minute 
styling. . .all at affordable prices. 
Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheThe------------------------------I
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00only $1 3.00only $8.00
Complete with written guaranteeComplete with shampoo and blow styleCut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON
~SAVE~$2.00
un a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
yumplksk mesh rhimpuu & rsyleng
A nddre wRoberiApril 30,1987
MU
APPCKNTMINTNESSARV_ CMflTEXPCCTftTMftS
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
AaaENaION:
Want to work on an original
TV SHOW?
Open Format program for Pittsburgh Cable starting in the fall. Creative and technical people wanted  no experience necessary (free training provided). Short informational meeting Friday, April 24, 4:30 pm PH126A. From the CMU Film Club.
Sponsered by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage 3
Senate Election Board Amendment Fails
By KEVIN POECKING
aifsin csioomfeskf
Senate Rules Committee Chairman Allen Greenberg proposed an amendment to the Constitution which would allow the 
Chairman of Student Senate to choose two 
students from each college to become part of 
the election committee in governing the 
election procedure. Alpha Phi Omega will 
continue to run the election process. 
Selection of the students by the Chairman 
would have to include Senate's approval.
Under this proposal, the Chairman could 
appoint himself as co-ordinator of the 
committee and would be encouraged to do so 
as pointed out by Greenberg.
These students would also help to inform 
the election committee what must be done 
constitutionally. During the current elections, Treasurer ballots were handed out 
to voters early on. Later, the election 
committee discovered that the Treasurer is 
voted into office by a majority vote of the 
Senators and the ballots were withdrawn. 
One person working at the place of elections 
claimed that they were never told that the 
Treasurer was not elected by ballot.
A motion to table the amendment because 
the points of the proposal were numbered incorrectly failed. An amendment to the 
amendment was proposed that would allow 
the Chairman to appoint any activities-fee paying student to the position of co
ordinator, not just a Senator. This failed 
also. The entire amendment failed, with a vote total of 6 for and 8 against
Also during the meeting $279 was allocated to the Health Awareness 
Committee. This special allocation was in 
addition to the $168 originally given to the 
committee. This was because the Awareness 
Committee was incorrect in an estimate submitted to Student Senate.
Lirs mkkk mir shk oenil mkkseng ouf shk 
cknisufeil rpfeng rkmkrskf rkisr. ahk nkmly 
klkbskd cknisufr mell mkks is suneghs'r 
mkkseng uo csudkns cknisk. Mkksengr bkgen 
is 7:00 pm en shk Whkffkss Ruum.
MTV Search
continued from page 1
student is chosen as a VJ, he is expected to move to New York City and work full time 
for MTV. When asked about the pay, 
Marinelli replied only with "substantial."According to Marinelli, the tryouts are not 
restricted to drama students, but open to the 
whole campus community. The only 
condition is that candidates be enrolled at 
Carnegie Mellon as a student He encouraged 
students from all colleges to attend the 
Wednsday morning general session as there 
are still a number of spaces available for auditioning. To do so, a student must first 
contact Mindy Kanaskie at x2392.
THE ORIGINAL HOT DOGSHOPHours:
Mon-Sun 9am-4:30am 
Fri-Sat 9am-6am
Another 1st at the Original 
Coors Beer on draft
served by the mug or pitcher.
Coming Soon 
NEW FOOD ITEMS
In the hamburger section! 
Guaranteed to satisfy even 
the most discriminating taste.
IRISH BEER SPECIALS l|| 
Dempsey Beer $5.00/six
Beamish Cream Stout $5.00/six 
Harp $6.00/six
\ 1/2 ib HAMBURGER"FRIES, COLE SLAW 
AND SMALL Coke
Ionly $2.99
(must present coupon before order) 
I expires 4-22-87
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
_ondon Dock
Spring has arrived and so have the exciting new 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, 
Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel PlazaSquirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811
Referendum to Preserve 
Tech House Passes By 
Narrow Margin
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
aifsin csioomfeskf
Only 53.5% of the student body voting on 
the Tech House Referendum asked that the building at 5125 Margaret Morrison Street 
be included in plans for the new student 
dorm. The vote, 533 to 464, indicated to Assistant Director of Housing Michael 
Murphy, that students "pragmatically looked 
at the cost and all the other factors" in making their decision. Chris Keane, the 
Tech House resident most enthusiastic about 
preserving the house, "expected more people 
to vote for saving the house." Though the 
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) voted 
against efforts to preserve the house, SDC 
President Eric Wittle has worked outside of SDC on the issue.
Wittle has proposed, with others, ideas that would use Tech House for many students. 
One idea would use the upstairs as an office 
for the Hill dorms coordinator. The first 
floor could be furnished in turn of the 
century decoration and could be reserved by 
students for formal receptions or dinners. 
Wittle also suggested to President Cyert that 
an ombudsman be housed in Tech House 
rather than in Warner Hall. The University 
is considering creating the position of an 
ombudsman, who would investigate 
students' complaints against the 
Administration.
By proposing that Tech House be used for 
all students, Wittle felt the Administration "became more interested" in the discussions. In general, he was pleased with the
Administration's willingness to talk about 
Tech House.
So far, Chris Keane and Chris Durham of 
Tech House have collected over 300 signatures for their petition to save 5125. 
They have submitted copies of these 
petitions to the six architectural firms which are finalists in the University Center 
competition.
The cost of renovating Tech House is not a 
clear issue. According to residents, no one 
has visited Tech House to assess what 
improvements are needed, though they 
concede that wiring changes and the 
installation of a sprinkler system are 
probably necessary. Still Keane can not "see 
how it's possible to put $250,000 in here if 
they tried." He feels a letter to the editor by 
Eric Wittle and Dana Reinhart hurt the 
Referendum by stressing the costs involved. 
Keane feels that "the intact Tech House 
community in this building can return profits other than monetary."
Keane was "disappointed that [Tech House] 
is not being kept for us...It's hard for me to 
picture things the same [at Roselawn 
Apartments]. It's smaller and not as visible."
With efforts to save Tech House losing 
steam while creative reasons to save it are being proposed, Keane sums up his feelings 
by saying "It would be interesting to why 
people voted against it" Just over a fifth of 
the eligible student body voted in the election.
INVENTIONS
Sometimes they occur by design, but more often by accident 
During the curse of your research and/or studies here at 
Carnegie Mellon, you may develop an invention that could 
solve a problem, satisfy some need or make an improvement to 
an old invention. How do you go about protecting this 
valuable intellectual property? Is it patentable? Is it marketable?
Come to the INVENTION AWARENESS SEMINAR*
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22,1987 
ADAMSON WING(Baker Hall)
3:004:00 p.m.
to learn more about:
 INVENTIONS
 U.S. PATENT PROTECTION/FORIEIGN
PATENT PROTECTION
 PUBLICATIONS (Student theses, scholarly
reports, etc.) AND ITS IMPACT ON PATENT 
PROTECTION
 COMMERCIALIZATION OF PATENTS:
MYTHS AND REALITIES
Licensing 
Patent infringement
* This seminar is sponsred by Research Corporation, an organization 
which provides Universities technology transfer services for 
evaluation, patenting and commercialization of inventions.

---------------------------------------------------

Only 75 Thistle Yearbooks Left!
Only 75 yearbooks are left to be sold, and when these are sold, there will be no other 87 
Thistle yearbooks available. Books are $20.
To obtain your copy of the Thistle, please send the order form below to:
Thistle Yearbook 
Skibo 46-A
via Campus Mail, or drop it off at our office in person. Questions? Call x2121.
This is the only way to order a Thistle!
Name:
Campus/Local Address: 
Local Phone: ------------
College:Year:
Home Address:
Ive enclosed a check for $20 made payable to Carnegie Mellon Thistle.

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage 5
Minutes of the Student Senate April 14,
Meeting called to order 7:05pm
Present: Bendre, Bostin, Christina, Clark, Flynn, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Kombrek, Larson, D. Levy, E. Levy, 
Lewis, Liu, Martin, Maxwell, 
Mukherjee, Robitshek, Sharpe, Shastri, 
Staresinic, Urbanski, West.
Absent: Friedland, Hausman(exc.),Rapoport, Sherlock, Shipley,
Stachura(exc.).Ex-officio Members: Denburg.
Absent: Dean Cox, Dean Walters, Chu, DeLeon.
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Cox: No report 
President: Jim Denburg: It has been a
pleasure working with you guys! Good luck 
next year.SDC: Leanne Chu: No report 
IFC: Fred DeLeon: IFC has come up
with a proposal for a two week dry 
Fraternity Rush in the Fall. IFC Spring
Picnic is Saturday, April 25th.
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin: I
spoke with Fred Rogers and a University 
architect who is looking into parking areas 
in Doherty, Morewood and above the Skibo 
lot. The short-term plan entails the 
construction of single-deck parking lots. 
The long-term plan is for a parking garage near campus.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: I would
like to thank everyone who worked on booth.
The doorknob of the office is off but will be 
fixed soon. A round of applause to those 
Senators whose term is up. You have done a great job.
Treasurer: Fred DeLeon: No report 
Academic Affairs: Norman Larson:
Senator Martin has sent out letters to SACs on campus.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek:
We have compiled results from the 
shuttle/escort Survey. Received 130
responses. Will be meeting to discuss 
results.
Funding & Recognition: Tamal
Mukherjee: Motion to give special
allocation of $279 to Health Awareness 
Committee for extra money needed for 
security during the Triathalon. Motion 
passed.
Public Relations: Nadine Flynn:
Please hang up posters concerning elections. Sweatshirts will be in tomorrow. 
Rules: Allen Greenburg: Proposed
Constitutional Amendments that were tabled will be brought up in Old Business.
Old Business: Motion to remove
Constitutional Amendments: Bylaws:
Election Procedure Section 8 from table. Motion passed.
Friendly Amendment to remove second 
Section 8 as listed on paper. Motion fails. 
Friendly Amendment to shift numbers. 
Motion passes. Motion to table amendment Motion fails.
Senator Lewis: Friendly Amendment to
strike subsection 3. Not regarded as 
'friendly'.
Motion to make this a formal Amendment Motion fails.
Motion to pass Constitutional 
Amendments:Bylaws. Motion fails.
New Business: We tried to arrangesomething at Kennywood for a final Senate 
event Instead we will be going to dinner. 
Plans are in the works.
Points of Discussion Senator D. Levy: 
I would like to thank Senators for all the 
work they've done. It's been a great year. Good Luck!
Announcements: Senator Bostin: SpringFling Dinner on Sunday, April 26th, at 
Top of the Triangle. Tickets are $10 per person and are available at Information Desk. 
Check Senate door for time of next weeks meeting.
Meeting Ajoumed 7:54pm.
Former National Security Advisor On World Power Balance
By LISA McANANY
aifsin Edesuf-en-yheko
John F. Kennedy was the American version of King Arthur. Washington during the 
period of 1961-63 is often likened to the 
mythical land of Camelot found in Arthurian 
lore. The individuals who were associated 
with Kennedy in those days still carry the 
aura of legend. McGeorge Bundy, who was 
Kennedy's National Security Advisor, is no exception.
Bundy lectured to an audience of students, professors and businessmen in Forbes Quadrangle at Pitt last Thursday. Bundys 
short speech consisted of a loose grouping
of observations about the balance of power 
between the superpowers, world stability, 
the role of technology in the arms race, and 
other topics. Bundy believes that the world 
since World War II has been a remarkably 
safe place despite the plethora of nuclear 
weapons. Nobody has used a nuclear weapon. Nobody has even come close, he 
adds that No ones interest is served by 
letting differences degenerate into nuclear 
war. During the Cuban Missile Crisis in 
1962, President Kennedy is oftquoted as 
having estimated the probability of nuclear war at between 30 and 50%. Professor Bundy 
argued that these figures actually referred to
Kennedy's estimation of the possibility of conventional war, not nuclear war.
Bundy criticized the relationship between 
technology and strategy. The procurement 
and deployment process has been driven 
more by technological promise than by consideration of what happens when the 
other guy does the same thing. Bundy also 
asserted that the only danger facing the U.S. 
today is the danger of surprise attack. Bundy 
shares this opinion with Dwight 
Eisenhower, who perceived the same source 
of threatThe highpoint of the evening was not the 
lecture itself, but the discussion that ensued.
Questions addressed topics ranging from 
U.S.-Soviet relations to nuclear terrorism. 
In response to a question from Dr. Valerie 
Thomas of the Engineering and Public 
Policy Department here at CMU about the 
tension within NATO stemming from the 
arms reductions talks currently taking place, 
Bundy suggested that in the Politburo, 
dividing the alliance is probably perceived to be a good thing. But the speaker was 
optimistic about the negotiations saying 
that The soviets want [the Pershing II 
missiles] out of Europe and theyre paying a very high price. Bundy seemed very
continued on page 6
Hold the phone, seniors! 
don't miss your very last...
our
Thursday, April 23 
4:00 - 5:30 pm 
Scotland Y ard
22 days and counting...
GOING HOME?
We can package and/or ship any item anywhere, 
hassle-free & professionally.
Stereos  Books
Clothes  VCRs
Refrigerators
Computers
Furniture
TVs
We ship by UPS, motor freight, air; domestic 
and INTERNATIONAL; offer PICK UP service; sell assorted BOXES and TAPE. 
Call for free estimate.
PAyKAGING AND cENDING PROc
7206 McKnight Rd.  Phone: 412-364-7547
FREE PICK UP SERVICE FOR CMU:
Friday, May 1  Skibo, Grey Matter Area 
12:00 noon to 6:00 pm Monday, May 4  Donner Lobby 
12:00 noon to 8:00 pm 
Wednesday, May 6  Morewood Rec Room 12:00 noon to 8:00 pm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 21,1987
Thornburgh Speaks on Economic Transition
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
aifsin csioomfeskf
Using his two terms as governor of 
Pennsylvania as "a backdrop for his observations," Dick Thornburgh described 
the state's role in economic transition before 
an audience at the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs (SUPA). Speaking in Breed 
Hall on April 16, Thornburgh proudly 
outlined the blueprint that met "the 
challenge of the transition taking place in our economy." This strategy helped lower 
Pennsylvania's ranking from 7th to 40th in 
national unemployment
Thornburgh's strategy included six points, 
which included improving the overall 
business climate, aiding in the modernization of industries, stimulating the 
growth of advanced technology businesses, 
providing educational and job training 
assistance, investing in an adequate infrastructure, especially in transportation, 
and providing satisfactory "quality of life". 
The former governor gave specific details on 
how each of these six points were 
implemented.
For some of those details, he cited several of his accomplishments as governor, 
including the elimination of corruption in
several government agencies, especially in 
the Pennsylvania Department of 
Transportation (PennDOT). Tax cuts, the 
elimination of thousands of government 
jobs, and a balanced state budget rounded out 
the reforms that he considered crucial to any improvement in the economy.
The speech also included cautions about 
guiding a state through an economic 
transition. Thornburgh suggested that a full 
transition takes about ten years, putting 
Pennsylvania in the middle of this change. 
Because of the length of this change, he warned that politicians too often look for 
quick and easy solutions to broad economic 
problems. He also warned that traditional 
industries should not be written off, but 
modernized, while at the same time, 
selective high-tech industries should be 
encouraged to invest in the state. Thornburgh stressed the need for 
Pennsylvania to seek a more diverse group 
of industries and end the era of steel. As he put it, "When the steel industry sneezed, our 
state caught a cold."
After the speech, members of the audience 
asked the former governor a variety of 
questions. In response to a comment that 
his administrations policies left some of the 
needy out in the cold, Thornburgh responded
with an adage that the best social program was a strong economy. He also answered 
questions about home-rule charters, economic transitions in other states, 
economic improvement in Eastern 
Pennsylvania, judicial reform, and the 
inefficiency of dozens of municipal 
governments.
Dick Thornburgh has accepted the 
directorship of the Institute of Politics at 
Harvards John F. Kennedy School of 
Government The state's only two-term 
Republican governor, he narrowly won 
reelection in 1982 by supporting the Reagan 
Administration's economic policies. Barred 
from s third term by the 1968 Constitution and, although he was leading in early polls, 
Thornburgh refused to run against incumbent 
Senator Arlen Specter in the 1986 primary.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Joel Thome Chosen to Head Music Dept.
PITTSBURGH  Internationally known composer and conductor Joel 
Thome has been named head of 
Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
Department of Music effective June 1. 
The appointment of Thome, founder 
and music director of Orchestra of Our 
Time and World Sound, was 
announced March 27 by Akram 
Midani, dean of the Universitys 
College of Fme Arts.
Thomes best known compositions 
include Satyavan: Dream Twilight which featured an environment 
designed by painter Francoise Gilot 
and was premiered at the Guggenheim 
Museum in New York, and Adoration 
of the Divine Mother, which was first 
presented at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.
As a conductor, Thome has led such 
prominent groups as the Los Angeles 
Philharmonic, the Brooklyn Philharmonic, Jerusalem Symphony 
Orchestra, LOrchestre de Nice and the 
National Symphony Orchestra of 
Mexico. A Nonesuch label recording 
of a performance of the opera Four 
Saints in Three Acts, conducted by 
Thome at Carnegie Music Hall in New 
York, was selected as recording of the 
month and international recording of 
the year by Stereo Review.Thome frequently collaborates with 
other artists including sculptors, 
painters, and sound and lighting 
designers. He composed the music for 
the dance drama One Who Cared: An 
Homage to Janusz Korczak, presented 
by the Carnegie Mellon College of 
Fine Arts and the Holocaust Center of 
Pittsburgh in October 1985.
Lecture on World Power
continued from page 5
supportive of the goals of the talks.But Dr. Bundy would also like to see 
changes in the negotiating strategy. He 
believes that the superpowers should avoid 
making treaties. Treaties must be ratified by 
two-thirds of Congress. The pressure to 
shape agreements into a form hat will be 
acceptable to legislators can cause 
negotiators to get mired in petty 
disagreements and details. Bundy would like 
to see the leaders draft one-on-one 
agreements that would be observed until the 
end of a presidential term. The agreements 
might stand on more dubious legal ground, 
but would sidestep the roadblock of formal 
negotiations between teams of diplomats. In 
addition, such executive agreements would 
only require a majority of votes to gain 
Congressional approval. But if there are 
treaties in the future, Bundy believes that the 
next one should guarantee the nonweaponization of space.
One member of the audience asked 
Professor Bundy if he would stuff the nuclear 
genie back into the bottle if he could. Yes, 
I would if I could, was Bundy's response. 
Although he believes the present situation to 
be fairly stable, Bundy says that he does, 
Not have enough confindence in the long
term wisdom of the powers that be.
McGeorge Bundy, who is currently a professor of history at New York University, 
was brought to Pittsburgh by the University 
of Pittsburgh and the International Peace and 
Security Program at Carnegie Mellon.
^Xlvc(< It /. /. , d/ S.v'/t'jC*- +***
/ /* , ... ' ^ ^ _
Ws' frwr ~ At * * \ j&n' sr**/, 4&r*r ' *
r:~i, w. * mmm*?. .
jP*0*'" *}!' ' 
a***
In the bicentennial year of the United States Constitution, Bill Moyers takes the pulse of the nations celebration in the weekly series, MOYERS: St Search of the Constitution.Ten one-hour programs present one of Americas most respected journalists with Supreme Court Justices, historians, educators, scholars, and citizens who have taken petitions of their constitutional rights all the way to the high
est court in the land.The series is about ideas, Moyers says. The people you will meet have spent their lives wrestling with interpretations of the Constitution. They remind us this document is alive in our times...requiring us to make up our minds about what happens if we ignore or misuse it.
Gknkfil Musufr er pfkrknseng sher rkfekr uo pfugfimr 
su bfuidkn in ippfkbeiseun uo uuf yunrsesuseun en 
shk bkleko shis shk rsfkngsh uo Amkfebi lekr en undkf
rsindeng uuf ofkkdumr ind fkrpunrebelesekr 
ir besezknr.
Presented oa PBS hy WNET-New York and WTVS-Detroit. 
Check local listings for tme and channel.
A General Motors 
Mark of Excellence Presentation

---------------------------------------------------

eoiO 3'
idoad
uO
*
jiov
S'SSH
8|Qo. U81 01 w&a iO sdnoj
eiqeiiBAE aje AndrewReAAAe obits
*314j8>(ea ui\\evAvjsaO
O '
yedap -  ^ 
'u6 - * 
0^01 ;v *
\\
siuaPtUKiO^  .
sesnq - paP'.^d
tshk3h11o 6tlG
vV$ :^jep *** d0, 3VA. ^nS
*g i86v  
u)0S-W'00'
ggaG/

---------------------------------------------------

MOONLIGHT RESTAURANTCHINESE AND VIETNAMESE CUISINE 
4039 Penn Ave. JcpZX* Pgh., PA 15224 
FREE DELIVERY 682-7853 free delivery to limited areas
ON ALL ORDERS OVER $ 7.00 7 DAYS A WEEK 11K>0 AM-9:00 PM
LUNCH BOX $3.15 
DINNER MENU -EXPCXTCf tMSPC HORR IGNG
Chicken $4.95 Pork $4.95 Beef $4.95
Moonlight Hot & Spicy 
Chicken 
Sweat and Sour Chicken 
Curry Chicken 
Chicken with Snow Pea* 
Chickan with Broccoli 
Gordon Chickan 
Chickan Vegetable 
Chicken with peanut*
Chicken with caihew*
Chicken with almond
Moo Coo Gai PanFried Rice
Chicken Fried lice.................3.95
Pork Fried Rico____________3.95
Beef Fried Rice.........................3.95
Shrimp Fried Rice...................4.95
Swoet and Sour Pork 
Moonlight Hot & Spicy Pork 
Roa*t Pork with kroccoli 
Roait Pork with Snow Poa* 
Hunan Pork 
Szechuan Pork
Shrimp $6.50
Sweet and Sour Shrimp 
Moonlight Hot and Spicy 
Shrimp 
Shrimp with Lobstor Sauce 
Shrimp with Broccoli 
Shrimp with Snow Poa*
Shrimp with Cathew*
Pepper Stoak with Onion
Curry Beef
Hunan Boot
Gordon Bool
Boot Vegetable
Boot with Broccoli
Beef with Snow Poa*
Chow Mein
Chicken Chaw Moln......... 4.45
Pork Chow Mein...................4.45
Bool Chow Main ...................4.45
Shrimp Chow Mein.............5.45
Combination Chow Mein.. 5.95
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................  782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................................ 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid...................................... ....................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
and
GRADS
-ARE YOU CLOSE TO GRADUATION?
-DID YOU RECENTLY GRADUATE?
-WOULD YOU LIKE NEW TRANSPORTATION 
FOR YOUR NEW FIELD OF ENDEAVOR 
WITH ISO CO SIGNER NEEDED?
 Purchase or lease a New Samson
 Six months prior to Graduation 
or up to one year after
(four year or graduate degree)
 Verifiable Commitment for Employment
 Lack of credit history is NO Problem
PLUS 
$400 towards your purchase 
or
90 day deferral of 1st payment
WOUDNT YOU REALLY RATHER HAVE A SAMSON 
TO CARRY YOU INTO YOUR NEW PROFESSION? 
YOU DESERVE IT!
SAMSON BUICK CO.
5223 LIBERTY AVE.
PITTSBURGH, PA 15224
WHERE "WE CARE" ABOUT THE PROFESSIONALS OF
TOMORROW.
CALL OUR BUSINESS MANAGER, TREVA SMITH, FOR AN APPOINTMENT.
578-8402
Philosophy Summer Session Courses:
Session 1: May 11 - June 26,1987 'Session 2: June 29 - August 14,19871
80-100
Philosophic Methods 9 units
Instructor: Alieva
This course is an introduction to philosophic methods and 
problems by means of critical reading and analysis of 
classical and contemporary texts. The emphasis will be on 
issues of moral and political theory, but epistemological 
and metaphysical issues will be developed as well.
MTWTh 10:15-11:45 BH231A 
80-237
Topics in Social and Political Philosophy:
Sex , Drugs, Rock 'n Roll and Seat Belts - - 
Problems of Individual Liberty, Paternalism 
and Political Theory 9 units
Instructor: Alieva
A central problem of modern political theory, especially as 
interpreted and applied in liberal-democratic societies, has 
been the delineation and justification of a protected 
domain of individual liberty, where intervention by society 
or the state ought to be prohibited. Are there certain 
kinds of activities that ought to be permitted regardless of 
the actual or potential harm to those who voluntarily 
participate in them, or regardless of the offensiveness or 
perceived indecency of such activities to others, so long 
as no other individuals are harmed? Or. can such activities 
be justifiably restricted or prohibited for paternalistic 
reasons, or for reasons involving appeals to 
offensiveness, indecency, degradation or insult as 
ground for moral rights and obligations?
Issues to be discussed will be selected from the following: 
so-called "victimless'' crimes, such as prostitution, 
gambling, drug use, the sale of pornographic materials, 
etc.; seat belt and air bag legislation; paternalism in 
medical and occupational contexts: certain Kinds of sexual 
behavior; problems involving free speech, artistic 
expression and censorship as in recent debates about 
pornography, sexist and racist literature, song lyrics which 
are sexually explicit or about drug use. etc.; voluntary 
euthanasia and suicide; and invasions of privacy; among 
others. There are no prerequisites for the course and no 
familiarity with philosophical problems or texts is 
presupposed.
MTWTh 1:00-2:30 BH231A
80-210
Introduction to Logic 9 units
Instructor: Burkholder
This course is an introduction to formal symbolic logic and 
some of its applications. The course will go through both 
sentential logic and first-order predicate logic. It will, 
however, concentrate on applications of logic. One of 
these is Prolog, a computer programming language for 
programming in logic. This programming language is of 
interest to researchers in as diverse subjects as history 
and artificial intelligence programming. The course will 
look at the links between formal logic and this language. 
Another application of logic this course will 
investigate collective choice theory and multi-factor 
decision making. This subject is of interest to economists 
and political scientists. The course will look at a major use 
of logic in this area, Arrow's Theorem.
The course will assume no background in logic or 
computer programming. Extensive use will be made of 
various computer tutors. These include newly developed 
tutors running in Andrew. As a rule, one class meeting per 
week will be in a computer cluster. Grading will be based 
on frequent small take-home exercise and a programming 
project or paper.
MTWTh 10:15-11:45 BH231A
Courses being offered 1st and 2nd session:
80-595
Supervised Research In Philosophy 9 units
Instructor: Alieva
Independent study/projects conducted with faculty 
supervision.
TBA

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage 9
Crime and Incident Report
4/12 THEFT 6:25 pm Theta Xibasement; denim jacket removed.
4/13 THEFT reported at 1:49 pm
(occurred 4/11) Frew St.; sweatshirt removed from sidewalk during Sweepstakes.
4/13 BURGLARY 2:43 pm Doherty 
Hall; computer and disk drive stolen.
4/13 THEFT reported at 2:50 pm
(occurred 4/11 between 9 and 10 pm) 
Scotland Yard; duffel bag containing camera 
equipment removed.
4/13 THEFT 3:39 pm Hamerschlag Hall; 
tools removed from Mech E lab.
4/13 POWER OUTAGE 5:27 pm 
Most buildings south of Forbes. Partial 
power was restored by 12:35 am, rest of 
campus had power by 10:30 Tuesday night.
4/13 MEDICAL 8:27 pm Comer of 
MM and Tech Sts.; student riding in bed of 
pickup truck, as truck turned comer student 
moved to side of bed to avoid being sloshed 
with water on bed floor, fell out of truck.
4/14 DISORDERLY CONDUCT
12:25 am 5017 Forbes Ave. (PR building); 
Fraternity brothers climbing on fire escape.
4/14 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 2:05 
am Hamerschlag Hall; 2 persons outside 
room 206 trying to enter with key that didn't 
work. Police couldnt find them.
4/14 THEFT 11:29 am Clyde St. lot;
AM/FM stereo cassette, equalizer and 2
speakers removed from students car.
4/15 SPECIAL 9:16 am Bureau of Mines Road near Wean hillside; non-CMU student found burying a small dead deer. Said 
it was for project on natural decomposition. 
Was told he couldn't do that in city limits, according to PA. Game Laws. Found deer dead on 1-79.
4/15 THEFT 10:59 am Hamerschlag
Hall; computer terminal removed from lab.
4/16 THEFT 5:01 am Wean; 2 students
stopped for removing chairs from a computer clusters.
Help bring the worn together. 
Host an
student
International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, brings teenagers from other countries to live for a time with American families and attend American schools. Learn about participating as a volunteer host family.
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE Pueblo, Colorado 81009
55!The International Ybuth Exchange.
4/16 THEFT 2:06 pm Hamerschlag 
Hall; computer disk drive and connecting kit 
removed.
4/17 DISORDERLY CONDUCT
2:48 am Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother 
escorting girlfriend to her residence, when 
she was struck in face by egg. Fight 
possibly ensued. Victim refused medical attention.
4/17 HARRASSMENT BY
COMMUNICATION from 1:30 to 1:45 
am Student in MM Apts, receiving obscene 
phone calls.
4/17 THEFT 11:38 am MMCH; 5 
chairs removed from a terminal room.
4/17 THEFT 8:06 pm MG; tape deck 
and amp removed from room.
4/17 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:30 
pm MG D-tower, Extinguisher discharged.
4/18 ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY 
2:23 am 3 students arrested for attempting 
to remove banner from outside of Carnegie
Institute. Charged with Criminal Mischief 
and Criminal Attempt. All 3 spent night in 
jail.
4/18 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:54 
am MG D-tower, 6th floor, Extinguisher 
discharged.
4/18 ASSIST OUTSIDE AGENCY
12:20 pm Schenley Drive; 2 students driving at high speed flipped car, rolled 3 
turns. Students taken to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
4/18 THEFT BY DECEPTION
12:50 pm 2 frat brothers approached by 
person offering to sell them 7 kegs of beer 
for $100. Took money and left, never 
returned.
4/18 NOISE COMPLAINT 3:14 pm 
Residents on Devon Road called to complain 
about noise from frats. Frats complied with request to lower noise.
4/19 THEFT 2:32 am Student stopped 
for having 2 city parking signs in 
possession, alledgedly removed from 
Schenley Park._____________________
"Bridging the Gap" Lecture in Skibo Friday
Dr. Huberta Jackson-Lowman, 
clinical psychologist with her own 
practice, and senior partner of NIA 
Associates will speak on Bridging 
the Gap Between the Races at 12:00 noon in Skibo Hall Room 105-106 
on April 24. Cost is $5.00. Make 
checks payable to Professional 
Women on Campus, and mail to 
CMU Box 23 by April 22. Lunch 
will be served. Campus community is 
welcome.
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share More
Unibed Wy
2A75AT y7nVaup 
JTTnVTzw9 
SBw Kn7uaN9 mn9S 
wLywT9A2w JTa
VTznmDn7SJ0uw
DuA5BSSn unTanT(Unfortunately, you cant go on that flight.That privilege is reserved for Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Atlantic. This summer, hell actually be attempting to cross the ocean in a hot air balloon.And you? If you want to fly from Newark to London, youll just have to mtttm settle for our very inexpensive and comfortable Virgin 747s.Sorry. But while Mr. Branson gets to spend three fun-filled days (maybe even more) bouncing around in a tiny capsule, boiling by day and freezing by night, and staring endlessly at blinking instrument
music videos, comedy programs, etc. All coming at you through a pair of serious electronic headsets. Can you believe it?And while Richard is living it up on re-hydrated whatever-it-is and yummy 
4 vitamin supplements, youllhave to make do with a hot meal, and a snack besides.And get this. To top it off, Richard Branson gets to pay over a million dollars more than you do.Thats right! Over a million dollars more!
Some people have all the luck.
million dollars
A
panels and motionless pressure sauces, , . ___ ________
youll be forced to settle for a comfortable VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRW'WSseat and attentive service. Plus hit movies, Take us for all weve got
For reservations see your travel agent. Or call 1-800362-8621. In New York call (212) 242-1330.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 21,1987
Ford Motor Company Offers Special Deals to Graduating College Seniors
DETROIT  Ford Motor Company has 
announced a spring break by offering a 
$400 cash allowance under the 1987 Ford 
College Graduate Purchase Program. 
Graduating seniors and advanced degree 
students can apply the cash allowance towards the purchase or lease of selected 
vehicles from participating Ford and LincolnMercury dealers.Additionally, Ford Motor Credit Company 
will offer special terms and pre-approved 
credit for qualified individuals.The program consists of a certificate for a 
$400 cash payment, when a purchase or 
lease of an eligible vehicle is made from a participating Ford or Lincoln-Mercury dealer, 
and a certificate from Ford Credit for preapproved credit for qualified buyers. Seniors 
graduating with at least a bachelors degree 
from a four-year college or university and 
graduate students are eligible. Graduation 
must occur between October 1, 1986 and 
September 30,1987.
We realize that the purchase of a new 
vehicle may be difficult at a time when youre beginning your new career, Ford 
management officials wrote the students. So Ford Motor Company would like to 
offer you assistance with Fords College 
Graduate Purchase Program.
Letters are being mailed to more than 1.2 
million students, while more than 1300 
colleges and universities are receiving 
information kits on the program. Since only 
recipients with the purchase allowance and 
finance plan certificates in their names are 
eligible, those who were not included in the
initial mailing should contact local Ford or 
Lincoln-Mercury dealers or Program 
Headquarters for information on how to 
qualify.
The eligible vehicles include those normally appealing most to the lifestyles of 
the new graduates  1987 Ford Escort, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird and Taurus cars; and Ranger, Aerostar and Bronco II 
trucks, and 1987 Mercury cars; Tracer, 
Topaz, Cougar, Sable and Lynx. The credit 
available ranges from $7,500 for Tracer to 
$14,500 for a Thunderbird or Cougar, and no 
down payment is required if the amount 
financed is within the amount established for 
the vehicle chosen.In order to take advantage of Fords new 
and unique offer, students must take their 
certificates to participating Ford dealers, 
where the $400 allowance can be used toward 
the down payment or may be taken as a cash 
payment direct from Ford. Eligible vehicles 
can be selected from dealer inventories until 
August 31, 1987, but production orders 
must be placed by June 1.To qualify for the pre-approved credit, 
eligible participants must have proof of 
employment beginning within 120 days of 
purchase at a salary sufficient to cover 
ordinary living expenses and the vehicle 
payment A previous credit record is not 
required, but graduates with prior credit 
history must have made payments as agreed
Students interested in further information 
can contact their local participating Ford or 
Lincoln-Mercury dealers excall Program 
Headquarters, toll free at 1-800-321-1536. (In 
Michigan, call collect 313-540-9890.)
FF))
rIIII
Prints and Slides from the same roll
Seattle FilmWorks has adapted Kodaks professional Motion Picture film for use in your 35mm camera. Now you can use the same filmwith the same fine grain and rich color saturationHollywoods top studios demand. Its wide exposure latitude is perfect for everyday shots. You can capture special effects, too. Shoot it in bright or low lightat up to 1200 ASA. Whats more, its economical. And remember, Seatde FilmWorks lets you choose prints or slides, or both, from the same roll. Try this remarkable film today!
FREE Introductory Offer
? RUSH me two 20-exposure rolls of Kodak MP film for my 35mm camera. Id like 2-roll starter pack including Eastman 5247 and 5294. Enclosed is $2 for postage and handling.
100% Satisfaction Guaranteed
NAME
ADDRESS
ZIPCITY STATEMail to: Seatde FilmWorks 500 Third Ave. W., P.O. Box 34056 Seatde, WA 98124 2664
iIIII
TUTORS NEEDED 
 FOR FALL 1987i
WALK-IN TUTORING PROGRAM 
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY 
7:00 - 10:00 pm 
$3.50 HOURLY
Please call Counseling Center, Ext. 2922, if interested in 
tutoring in any of the following areas:
Calculus, Pre, I, II, III
Physics 
Chemistry
Economics 
Financial Accounting 
Academic Writing

---------------------------------------------------

EntertainmentComics
ClassifiedsEvents
Emo Philips isnt normal, but hes funny
By AMANDA COHEN
aifsin yumkdy yfeseb
Look at that face. Would you believe that this mans parents locked him in the basement till he was 
6? But that was only so the Devil wouldnt find 
me. Emo Philips also says that little old ladies 
going through garbage cans saved his life many times. Yes, the stories conflict, but when you hear 
Emos comedy routine you just might find both stories believable.
The product of a devout Christian upbringing, Emo 
doesnt seem to know hes not normal. He bends 
reality into his own paranoid nightmare and wont let 
people stop laughing at him. Hes been called a protestant Woody Allen, a secular humorist, and 
a dweeb. Never once has Emo given a straight interview, so we know little about his real life.
His fantasy life will do, however. Its gotten him 
through 10 years of comedy performance and into the 
upper echelons of the comedy industry. When Emo 
tells stories about meeting (and offending) people 
with horse-heads, feeding rats to snakes, and stabbing 
librarians to prove hes from New York, hes almost 
too macabre to provoke anything other than laughter. 
To say that he is twisted is more than accurate: his
Next week at the Funnv Bone

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanApril 21, 1987
A concert of guitar mastery from Stanley Jordan
By BRUCE KASREL
aifsin Enskfsienmkns Edesuf While I sat in Carnegie Music Hall last 
Saturday listening to Stanley Jordan play his 
guitar, I kept thinking that there is no way
Jizz is yMU
anyone can play better than this guy. Jordans incredible abilty to play both bass 
and lead lines simutaneouly (by placing both 
his hands on the neck) are his trademark, but it is his understanding and appriciation for 
all types of musical styles that sets his musical talents appart from the rest.
Discovered playing on a streetcomer in 
New York, Jordan has taken the jazz world
by storm. He has quickly become Blue Note 
Recording Labels most prized artist. On his 
second album, csindifdr Vulumk I, his 
ability to rework established songs into his 
own style has had critics exclaiming un
deniably genius. At the age of 27, he is 
now considered by many music experts and fans to be the greatest jazz guitarist playing 
today.Taking time off from recording his next 
album, Jordan gave those in attendance a sampling of what makes the critics go 
bonkers. He plays at an blistering pace and 
while his runs are incredibly fast, every note 
is articulated with great care. There is little 
question that Jordan is among the nimblest 
of pickers, perhaps the only question is 
which of his hands is the quicker. Jordan began many of the pieces by playing a
popular song such as Eleanor Rigby or 
Georgia on my Mind and then improvisies 
on the chords and themes. He gradually drifts 
off into his own world, occasionally 
returning to the orginal piece or moving on 
to another. Although his improvisations were imaginative and beautiful espically 
good was his cover of Stairway to Heaven, 
what was more impressive was that he 
continued to keep playing at a blistering 
pace through these extendend pieces.
Dont get me wrong; just because he played 
fast does not mean that he played with a 
loud, rock n roll style. This was a very mellow concert. Jordan got up on stage and 
did he does best There was no fanfare or 
extra props. Just Jordan, a stool, his guitar 
and amp. Coupled with the fact that Jordan 
has a very friendly stage prescence, the atmo
sphere at the afternoon concert was unquestionably mellow.
Even though the concert was FREE to 
Carnegie Mellon students, the attendence for 
the concert was abyssmal. Due to 
restrictions put on AB by an outside jazz promoter (who will be sponsoring Jordan in 
a pay admission concert in a few months), 
the amount of publicity was limited. Even 
the publicity for the superb jazz fusion 
group, Cab Frio, who opened the show, was 
supressed. Due to a slow touring season of 
most artists, the only concert they could get 
was Jordan and they were forced to abide by 
extremely strict publicity restrictions.If you 
didnt catch the show, then you will have to 
shell out 15 smackers to see Jordan this 
summer, but be assured that it will be well worth the price of admission.
Joe Bob Briggs rates the top live party schools
In honor of Spring Break, heres what you 
been waitin all week for  the annual Joe 
Bob Briggs guide to the Top Five Party Schools in America. I been spendin a whole 
heck of a lot of time researchin it this year, 
gettin drunk with numerous brain-damaged 
Professors of Wood Alcohol during the Joe 
Bob Briggs Dead in Concert world tour. 
The only students eligible to advise me on
dorm room on the west side of the campus and didnt come out for six days. They failed 
to set the record.Where is it? Fayettteville, Ark.
What do I have to do to get in? Repeat after me: Whoooooooo pig sooey. If you 
can say this accurately, youre in.
Drink of choice? A big ole Bud, unless we dont have a Bud, and then a big ole Coors,
Rating: 10 kegs.
And finally, this years grand champion 
school:Northern Arizona University. Recently set 
the world record for somethin called alcohol probation when three entire dorms spraypainted the resident hall director and distributed Coors 12-packs to every single 
member of a 48-member sorority in return
Ash is back. Remember the guy who couldnt decide whether to carve up his 
girlfriend or not after she turned zombie on 
him in the first flick? This time, he dont 
hesitate. Shes chainsaw meat by the end of 
20 minutes, and pretty soon Ash is gettin 
rammed through windshields, pitched 
through doors, and watchin his girlfriend 
come up out of her grave and do a little
the selections must have:
a) a criminal record;
b) the ability to gator while sober;
c) a minimum of three incompletes from 
fall semester, three failing courses as of 
March 1, and at least nine hours credit from 
the sociology department.
OK, lets roll. The results in reverse order:
The Fifth best party school in America 
is... 
University of Northern Colorado. This is 
the only one in the Top Five I haven't 
personally inspected, but their reputation for 
wild-dog bestiality, especially in the coed 
housing, has spread four states away and * 
caused me to include em even if theyre just 
amazing liars. Heres the facts:
Where is it? Greeley, Colo.Wheres that? I don't know.
What do I have to do to get in? Score a 
solid 230 on your SATs
Drink of choice? Triple-tequila lizard-tail 
shooters.
Spring break destination? Palm Springs, 
where they all hang around Bob Hope 
Boulevard goin, Wanna go chop down a 
palm tree and moon some girls in Spandex 
lift-and-separate body stockings? (Country 
boys.)
Rating: Four kegs on a 10-keg scale.
Numero four-O: University of Virginia.
The former home of Kappa Alphas able to 
bite the heads of muskrats and juggle 
magnums at the same time, these guys have 
slipped a couple notches in recent years.
Where is it? Charlottesville, VA.
What do I have to do to get in? Have a 
daddy named anything the third.
Drink of choice? Creme de Mr. Potato 
Head.
Spring break destination? Lauderdale, where 
you can recognize em as the ones with 
twitchy lips and the keys to Jaguars they left 
in Georgia someplace cause I dont 
remember, Officer.
Rating: Six kegs.
Numero three-O: University of Arkansas. It 
gets lonely in the Ozarks, so the official 
university drinkin age is 14. In January, 
three guys took eight cases of Coors into a
The cast of Evel Dkid 2 look on as Ash (Bruce Campbell) kills the first zombie.
unless we dont have a Coors, and then a big 
ole Old Milwaukee Tall boy, unless we 
dont have... Remember, were talkin 
Ozarks.
Spring break destination? South Padre 
Island, Texas, the guys crammed in the 
Broncos, cuttin donuts on the National Sea
shore and tryin to rip the bikini off any girl 
named Wilma.
Rating: Eight kegs.
Numero two-O: The State University of 
New York at Stony Brook. A newcomer to 
the list, these zoo animals have an annual 
student competition called Lets Get 
Handicapped Day. This years winner 
consumed seven undiluted bags of Arkansas 
Polio Weed and achieved total paralysis.
Where is it? Somewhere out on Long 
Island.
What do I have to do to get in? Talk 
through your nose and tip the admissions 
counselor a twenty. (Its New York.)
Drink of choice? Brandy Alexander Graham 
Bell. (After you drink it, you spend the night 
punchin MCI numbers until you find one 
you can steal, then you call 37 foreign 
countries.)Spring break destination? Any motel with 
an average temperature above 55.
for somethin called grease-monkey window 
dancin. 1 dont know what it is, but I dont 
condone it, and Id like some.
Where is it? Flagstaff, Ariz., up in the 
mountains.
What do I have to do to get in? Find it.
Drink of choice? The Grand Canyon 
Cooler, made from a Mescalero Indian recipe 
used for pregnancy tests.
Spring break destination? Rocky Point, 
Mexico. Im not kiddin. They make caravans 
for Sombrero-Land, Boys Town, Hasta La 
Vistaville, and play the old college game 
Dont Worry About It, Were Americans! 
Afterwards they have a memorial service for 
victims. Rating: off the scale.
Speaking of indigestion, Evil Dead II is 
the sequel to the winner of the Drive-In 
Academy Award in 1984, the original Spamin-a-cabin zombie flick where theres only 
one way to kill the geeks total 
dismemberment. And this may be one of the 
few times in drive-in history where the 
sequel is better than the original. They 
released it unrated, cause they were about to 
get an X for violence, and they were right. It 
scores a 99 on the Vomit Meter and sets the 
world record for biood-and-slime-spewing.
dance for him. She dont just dance topless, 
she dances Headless. And by the time her 
head gloms onto his hand and he has to put 
the head in a vise to squash the life out of it, 
we know that this time nobody is gonna 
forget that theres only one way to kill the 
zombies: total dismemberment. Arms. Legs. 
And, yes, heads must roll. Two zombie 
breasts. Six dead bodies. Bold-spewing. 
Zombie detached-hand attack. Hand-spearing. 
Hand-sawing. Flying-eyeball swallowing. 
Fruit-cellar demon attacks. Zombie axing. 
Heads roll. Everything else rolls. A 99 on 
the barf meter. Glopola City. Double-barrel 
sawed-off shotgun blast through the eyes of 
a demon Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Dan Hicks, as the redneck 
guide, for leading everybody into the woods 
to find his dead girlfriend and saying, These 
pages dont mean squat!; Kassie Wesley, for 
gettin raped, pillaged and killed by the woods 
(not in the woods, by the woods); Sam 
Raimi, the best director from Deetroit, for 
doin it twice; and Bruce Campbell as Ash, 
for sayin, Am I fine? We just cut up our 
girlfriend with a chainsaw. Does that sound 
fine?
Four stars. Best of 87. Joe Bob says check 
it out.

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage D3
Joe Bob Briggs Redneck Reader Mail Returns
Victory over Communism! A letter poured 
in from Angela Allen at KICKS i04 radio in Nashville, Tenn., informing me that 
employees of the station have personally 
examined 12 thriving drive-ins in the greater 
Nashville area, including four in 
Hendersonville, Tenn., home of the Man in 
Black, and that in several cases Angela 
herself has provided the in-car entertainment. 
To discuss the meaning of life with Joe Bob, 
or to get some free junk, write Joe Bob 
Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, Texas 75221.
Dear Joe Bob: Is it true that you are 
secretly in love with and tried to take Elvira to the world famous La Mirada 
Drive-Inn while in California last year? (I 
have a photo of you in my trunk to use as a 
wrapper for my brewz when Im at the show. 
You should sell a bunch . . . they work 
great!) Tell us all about this Elvira bimbo. Class of 67, Dallas
Dear 67: Ever since Elvira refused to put 
her name on the video of Make Them Die 
Slowly, cause she thought it was 
disgusting, Ive been tryin to expose her as a 
fraud, but mostly Ive just been tryin to 
expose her.
Howdy Senor Briggs! Was it me or was 
86 a bad year for bad films? A friend and I 
are thinkin aboih forming B.A.R.F.F., The 
Bay Area Repulsive Film Fanatics. Were 
into making our own films like The Care 
Bear Anti-Christ and The Cult of 
Koowan. The latter is about an evil panda 
in a Cheerios shirt. Chiooaw Babe!  Brad 
S., San Mateo, Calif.
Dear Brad: Are you the guys that made My Little Pony: The Kung Fu Version, 
where the little pony gets mutilated, shot up 
with heroin, and dumped in a Hong Kong 
dumpster to be burned alive by midget 
gangsters?
Dear Joe Bob: I was sitting here in a hotel room, reading your movie review with the 
television on, when a thought occurred to 
me. What will the increase in frontal, and 
backal, nudity on free TV do to drive-in 
movies? Theyre almost gone as is. Even in 
Southern California where you can go all 
year! Like heaven! But if drive-in movies disappear, what will you do for a job? Do 
you have some skill to fall back on? Maybe 
a trade? I hope so! Best Regards  Kevin 
Morton, Rodeway Inn, Palm Springs, Calif.
Dear Kevin: Any guy on spring break that 
dont have nothin better to do than write me 
letters deserves all the backal nudity he can get.
The day they show a boob close up on the 
network, Kevin, is the day I retire. The 
revolution will be complete.Dear Mr. Loud-Mouth-Know-It-All Joe 
Bob Briggs: Well now youve gone and done 
it! Ever since you put my engagement notice 
in print, Ive had no rest! The phones been 
ringin off the wall! My boyfriends have been 
callin day and night wonderin what the dang 
deal is! Joe Bob, honey, one little detail I 
failed to mention when I told you about my 
impending hitch-up is that I didnt intend to 
break the news to my vast horde of beaus until my hunnymoon nite! I had planned to 
jaw it out with each and ever one of em in a 
marathon phone session after all the I-Dos 
and hoop-lah, while my happy hubby looked 
on. Now yoitve ruined all my fun!
Also, since I met many of my hunnies at those sleazy parties Ive been appearing at far 
and wide, Ive been gettin collect phone calls 
from the ones who live the farthest away! In 
other words, you owe me a h unnerd and 
twenty smackers to cover the bills! General 
Telephone has been sending their collections thugs to my door to collect for 
these outstanding balances, as they so politely put it. And what makes me
maddem a dappled sow is that your calls are costin me the most! Where the hell didja call 
me from . . . Timbuck-2?!?!?! All My Love 
 Boveena Dance Captain Julie, Irving, Texas
(Editors Note: Julie Bramblett is indeed 
the dance captain of the eight-member, 2,200-
CMUs Drama
PITTSBURGH  The American musical classic The Pajama Game will be presented as the final show in the 1986-87 Carnegie 
Mellon Drama Season. Performances begin 
with previews Wednesday and Thursday, April 22-23, before the official opening Friday, April 24, in the Universitys Kresge Theatre.
A show portraying the union movement of 
the 1960s, The Pajama Game features the 
music of Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. 
Classic tunes from the production include Steam Heat, There Once Was Man, 
Hernandos Hideaway and Seven and a Half Cents. The original choreography won Bob Fosse his first Tony Award in 1954.
Director Gregory Lehane, a University of
pound Dancing Bovina Sisters, who appear 
with Joe Bob at his personal appearances and are billed as the worlds largest chorus line. 
Joe Bobs dream of marrying them all off 
one by one has fallen short. Julies 
previously announced engagement is off. For any of you guys interested: She weighs more
season finale
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon graduate who attended Central Catholic High School, 
says, We will not really be changing the show to update it, although well be slightly 
exaggerating the 50s style for a more 
modern look. Thirty years have passed, however, so our views of the show will have 
changed. Lehane will be assisted by 
Resident Conductor Keith Lockhart, who is 
the musical director for Pajama Game, and Assistant Professor Judith Conte, who will 
choreograph the production.Performances will be at 8pm, April 22-25, 28-30, May 1-2, with 2pm matinees on 
April 25 and May 2. For ticket information 
call the Carnegie Mellon Drama box office 
at 268-2407.
than you do, and shes available.)
Dear Julie: You know what happened, 
dont you? You lost too much weight durin 
Bovina Rehearsals last year, and then all the 
magic was gone. Start trainin again  now! 
Five meals a day, right up through swimsuit season, and Ill marry you my own self.
Sitar Music
One of Indias most outstanding sitar players of the younger generation will 
appear in a concert of classical Indian music at the University of Pittsburgh 
on Saturday, April 25 at 6:30 pm.
Shahid Parvez, from the lineage of 
the Etawa School of sitar playing, will 
perform at the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium.
He is acclaimed for his excellent alaaps in the gayaki style, and for the 
purity of style in his presentation of 
various ragas. He is also known for 
his original and scintillating improvisations.
For more information call 624-4126.
Stanley Kubrick'sDVuu mwSJu hJzPwS
anleyl JJor dGsVstiV runeUyc DvJlSCDmr pvUU FyunU gnCDyuSTARRING MATTHEW MODINf ADAM BALDWIN VINCENT D'ONOFRIO LEE ERMEY DORIAN HAREWOOD ARLISS HOWARD KEVYN MAJOR HOWARD EOO'ROSS 
SCREENPLgi STANLEY KUBRICK MICHAEL HERR GUSTAV HASFORO tmPshort^mersby GUSTAV HASFORO CO PRODUCER PHILIP HOBBS PRODUCER JAN HARLAN
uGhBruneUyc DvJlSCD kk
IN VIETNAM 
THE WIND DOESN'T BLOW
IT SUCKS

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanApril 21, 1987
Exciting jump blues from Little Charlie and the Nightcats
By DAN BIDWA
aifsin Rkbufd yfeseb
All The Way Crazy
Little Charlie and the Nightcats
Alligator
Little Charley and his band rip it up all over this album with a bunch of songs that show 
where rock came from. They play jump 
blues, the musical forerunner of rock and roll that, while still utilizing the musical 
structure and style of blues, puts a danceable
| 
I
wm ^ ^  J
beat to the music  The Fabulous Thunderbirds are another, more well known 
jump blues band. The band has been playing together for over a decade, and their 
familiarity with each other shows on this 
album, with all four members of the band 
fitting into a solid but not dense sound that 
really works. Charlie Baty, the guitarist for 
the band, has an especially exciting sound, 
laying down licks that sound like hes barely 
keeping himself in control. The band uses 
antique amplifiers to drive their music, and 
therefore have a suitably dirty sound that 
complements the tunes well, which are cleverly written, both lyrically and 
musically. With the late success of Stevie Ray Vaughn and The Fabulous 
Thunderbirds, Little Charlie and the band 
enters the fray with a well-written and 
perfectly executed album that should extend 
their popularity well outside their West 
Coast following.
Tartan Record Grade: 4.0
Ten Women 
Wire Train 415
Even though the folk-rock wave of last 
summer has died down, the bands that caused 
it are still around. Wire Train, one of the better of the genre, has finally released a new 
album that, while not matching the energy 
of In i yhimbkf, their debut album, still 
provides a healthy dose of jangly guitars and 
intruiging lyrics. On first listen, the album sounds fairly routine, like so many other 
bands' attempts, with the songs beginning interestingly and ending far too long after 
they should have. However, after repeated listenings, the songs become more appealing 
and less annoying. This is not an album to 
bear close initial listening-wait until you like the songs, then worry about the lyrics 
(which are printed in a nearly unitelligible 
scrawl on the liner). Only a few songs are 
immediately appealing, such as "She Comes 
On", the first cut, or "Certainly No One", 
which grabs attention by the use of 
production bells and whistles, but which 
sounds suitably clear nonetheless. A good 
album, but close to the sophmore slump when compared to the electricity exhibited 
on In i yhimbkf. Buy Wire Train's debut 
first (if you can find it), then buy this one as 
well.
Tartan Record Grade: 3.5
Midk en shk UcA Soundtrack
various artists
Chrysalis
Oh boy. Another soundtrack. "Made in the 
USA". Sounds like a real winner. Lessee, 
who's on it. Hmm, Tito Larriva and Chalo 
Quintana, never heard of them. Timbuk 3 - 
ah, the required popular group. The
& END OF SEMESTER   
V 2-DAY CELEBRATION * 
COUPON GOOD FRIDAY, APRIL 24,1987
for you & a guest ($10.00 value)
AT MIRAGE
Ladies receive:
Free Admission 9:00-12:00 
and
Free Drinks 10:00-12:00 
Men receive:
. Free Admission 9:00-11:00 . 
and V
Free Drinks 9:00-10:00
Everything courtesy of PBC.
MUST BE AT LEAST 21.
Proper dress required including dress 
jeans. No tennis shoes or hats permitted.
105 SIXTH STREET .- .FULTON BLOC. A DOWNTOWN rv281-0349
COUPON GOOD SATURDAY, APRIL 25,
1987
for you & a guest 
($10.00 value)
AT MIRAGE
FREE ADMISSION 
9:00-11:00 
FREE DRINKS 
9:00-10:00
courtesy of PBC
ENJOY MIRAGES ALL NEW 
COMPLIMENTARY BREAKFAST 
BUFFET AT 3 AM EVERY FRIDAY 
AND SATURDAY.
MUST BE AT LEAST 21.
Proper dress required including dress 
jeans. No tennis shoes or hats permitted.
105 SIXTH STREET FULTON BLDC. .tV DOWNTOWN . 281-0349
Fabulous Thunderbirds - no big deal. Sonic 
Youth. Wait a minute. Sonic Youth? On a 
soundtrack to a normal movie? Might be 
worth a listen. Okay, here we go. First song 
(Tito Larriva and Chalo Quintana - "In The 
Wait") is good. Second song (Timbuk 3 - "Life Is Hard") is good. Third song (John 
Hiatt - "Love Like Blood" (not the Killing 
Joke tune of the same name)) is a change of pace, but still good. Fourth song (Peter Case - 
"Old Blue Car"). Bleck. Fifth song (The Fabulous Thunderbirds - "Can't Tear It Up 
Enuff') really moves. So far so good. Flip 
the disc. First song (World Party - "Ballad of 
the Little Man") sounds really good 
following the Thunderbirds. Second song 
(Sonic Youth - "Secret Girl"). Wait a 
minute, this is a basic industrial intro (clank, grind, scrape, etc.). Where did they 
put this song in the movie? No, wait, it's getting pretty. What a neat song. Whups, 
next song (Flies on Fire - "Baptize Me Over 
Elvis Presley's Grave") Yeah. Yeah! Great 
song! Next song (Mojo Nixon & Skid 
Roper - "I Hate Banks") - wow! This is 
really good! Wait, it's over. Last song (The 
Tail Gators - "Rock 'N' Roll Till The Cows 
Come Home"). Whoop, whoop! This is so 
good. Um, wait, it's over. Oh. Well. That 
was great. Somebody give this guy (Joe 
Regis, the music supervisor for the movie) a medal.
Tartan Record Grade: 4.0 (with a
bullet)
Blue Train Station 
The Cynics 
Get Hip
The so-called Paisley Revolution has died, 
and in its space has risen the best music of 
the Sixties: the grunge bands, the ones with 
only the basic equipment - a fuzz box. 
Pittsburgh's answer to this genre, the 
Cynics, have finally released an album after 
a string of singles, and a good album it is, 
too. From the sound of the music, the band has been living in the Sixties for quite some 
time now, and have gotten the sound of the 
times down to a fine point. With Michael
Kastelic screeching away in front of Gregg 
Kostelich's raw guitar, the Cynics sound like 
the Byrds filtered through Minor Threat. 
They don't sound exactly like any Sixties group as a result. For that matter, they don't 
sound like most of today's groups either, which may be a point in their favor. If the 
Sixties had come after the punk revolution, 
lots of bands would have sounded like this. 
The album is really well-anchored, with all 
the songs sounding like they belong where they are. (The album cover is inspired as 
well - this album would look right at home 
in an oldies rack.) Occasionally Kastelic's 
squall becomes annoying, but most of the time the songs sound fine. (Call WRCT and 
request "Love Me Then Go Away"- the 
pulsing guitar intro is thick enough to break 
rock, and the rest of the song really rocks.) 
Keep your money at home - buy this album 
and support the local talent. It's well worth 
the money.
Tartan Record Grade: 3.75
Stan Bush & Barrage 
Stan Bush & Barrage 
Scotti Bros.
So you want to be a rock and roll star; 
well, take a few minutes, hear what I say; 
Just make an average band; go find some 
people that know how to play;
And even if you can't sing, buy your 
clothes at Chess King and go do your thing.
Then find your way into town, where your 
agent man won't let you down.
He's made you a deal that's final that'll let 
you get your crap on vinyl.
But that's so sad, 'cause you're so bad, and 
the buyers just won't be had.
So your album's a bust, but don't you 
worry;
So what if you can't be the next Bon Jovi? 
But be assured that in the final end,
You'll be around to ride the next trend.(my apologies to the Byrds)
Tartan Record Grade: .01 (just to be kind)
Y-Music 1987-88 Season Announced
The brilliant Pittsburgh Symphony violist, 
Joen Vasquez has been chosen as the Y 
Music Societys 1987-88 Passamaneck 
Award Recipient. Mr. Vasquez was selected 
from a group of five talented finalists by the 
reknowned pianist and conductor Christoph 
Eschenbach.
A native of Caracus, Venezuela, Joen 
Vasquez joined the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra in 1985. After Mr. Vasquezs 
performance in the 1985 Casals Festival in 
Prades, the Perpignan Journal reported that
Joen Vasquez deserves a very special place 
among the greatest.
In addition to Joen Vasquez and Patricia 
Prattis Jennings, the Y Music Societys 
1987-88 Recital Season features pianists 
Peter Serkin, Emanuel Ax and Alicia de 
Laroccha; violinists Viktoria Mullova and Joshua Bell, and soprano Lucy Shelton.
Subscriptions to the entire series are being 
sold at a 10% discount until May 31. For 
information or an illustrated flyer, call the 
Y Music Society at 521-8099.
r~
s,_STUDIO THEATRE
TomgM
8:30 pm 
TRAPS 
directed by Chris Coleman
utufuv
Thurs @ 4:30 & Fri @ 2:30 
BLAKE SUNG 
an original collaborative work
STUDIO TATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama

---------------------------------------------------

44HOW I MADE $184100 FOR COLLEGE BY WORKING WEEKENDS
When my friends and I graduated 
from high school, we all took part-time 
jobs to pay for college.
They ended up in car washes and 
hamburger joints, putting in long hours 
for little pay.
Not me. My job takes just one 
weekend a month and two weeks a year. 
Yet, Im earning $18,000 for college.
Because I joined my local Army 
National Guard.
Theyre the people who help our 
state during emergencies like hurri
canes and floods. Theyre also an 
impoi 
defense.
So, since Im helping them do such 
an important job, theyre helping me 
make it through school.
important part of our countrys military
As soon as I finished Advanced 
Training, the Guard gave me a cash 
bonus of $2,000. Then, under the New 
GI Bill, Im getting another $5,000 for 
tuition and books.
Not to mention my monthly Army 
Guard paychecks. Theyll add up to 
more than $11,000 over the six years 
Im in the Guard.
And if I take out a college loan, the 
Guard will help me pay it back-up to 
$1,500 a year, plus interest.
It all adds up to $18,000or more 
for college for just a little of my time. 
And thats a heck of a better deal than 
any car wash will give you.
THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-638-7600? OR MAIL THIS COUPON.
*In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam: 477-9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix h 773-6438; New Jersey: 800-452-5794. In Alaska, consult your local phone directory.c 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense. All rights reserved.
I----------------------------------------------------------------------------------1MAIL TO: Army National Guard, P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015
______________________________________________________? M ? FNAME
ADDRESS
C1TY/STATE/ZIP
US CITIZEN DYES ? NOAREA CODE PHONE
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
OCCUPATION
STUDENT ? HIGH SCHOOL ? COLLEGE PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE DYES ? NO
BRANCHRANKAFM/MOS
TH INFORMATO* *OU VOlU*TA*n.v **Ov *CLUC*NG *OU SOOA*. SCU*> NUM0CB WH.L Bt US0 FO CCRUiTtNG PU*PQSf S ONLY vOU* SOOAL SCU*TV MJMOE
WHA 9 US60 TO Hf SPONSt TO TmiS AO AUTmOT> OUSC 3
National Guard
A1CLJC13047NPArmy National Guard
^ A mknbinr As ahkef Bkrs.

---------------------------------------------------

Provided by SDC by Berke Breathed InkspotsBLOOM COUNTY
AWRs&Ha, W MOaZLmyKsNO yONcPIRAaORc.. MIL ME OUaaA aHIc cUME HOLE...
if mr isn fAGOOPVME, JUca cAY cO! mku come 
mck in a mkkp
Mt/.d 
Sv' Sjv .C 
v*v-C.t\.vOVR CONTRACTS.
YOU ALL SOREm/r \etTHIS? GO \ ON:
ykr/SURELY!OF COURSE'UH...
FUWORS, CJIOUU**-12MVIf
.r*kn*b
cuu*'*5HAK6S
f*AlT5
IP I \KK 11 "TF 
orn, mm guys.1VE REWRITTEN YOUR *&>#*< CONTRACTS. || !_I_u__li?
----------------------------
mfitfET (nve our best o Ar m youkv/r I bkumfk,jA\ I . li "ROLLO,I II mr mmrWV^cJe Tn P0& RAPIca. "
f AWRIGHT.
I 7\
1(612% OF THE RECORP ROYALTIESYOU 6ET 98.
RLUSmk barsEVERYBREAKFAca.
_APPARENTLY,111 5E SHARING YOU A MTERfiEI? mJtiPwrm ELEANOR ME, SIR.^ ROOSEVELT \HERE V N
YOU SOUNP
C urne 
pepressep.
5TEVE / WHERE ARE YOU GUYS ? OUTS I PE OF TULSA * WHAT?.. YOURE ALMOST BROKC *
YER HAVING TO POUBLE UP IN THE MOTEL ROOMS, EH?
Inkspots
osf*. (ufnfm sm'mnfmm&
Comics
r. EXCUSEM. W MIcaER 
SQUEAMISH.
SMELLS UK
FISH OIL.
\ TO EACH HISPENTlFRICe.
I
HEY/ WHOA/ - 
HOLP TT' 6ET 
THATOUTTA YER 
MOUTH/
FISCAL REAUTTES PEMANP V& 
SHARE A ROOM ANO SEP. .. BUT NOT MY TOOTHBRUSH.
MY GOP, THATS 
PfSGUSTiNG.
\
-
% wen, memmmr GsmfeG aOGkmkR /
OKAY/cO I'LL cHANE MY lGS FIRST THING IN we MORNING---------------------------------------------------

by Kurt Shaw
by Kurt Shaw
by Ed Baranoski
1 gAerk rr A &Hoo&ld 
A1QQ.y EAyH DAY.
OJHAT AUS Yuu thepnsi
I tfAlStMG THE oTps,
/ 0/=- GoPMR}s Oe.Shi.
/3arooo3fct
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh with Joe Ferrugia
HAOlk) BfiFM 7MBDUJU tUTO ft 
OGttT<UU\Vii -WE SlfT SUPF* OOWPtfTF* 
(stupid rAoue ou-me suss\auV Pfrer} K>occe*A 6eT5 into tennis -nsou^ie....
ou* akrf smeskr Hflwe" ALTeeeo ooucse; *wt> mk Hftuc T^ccTiive 
TTHVS oow\. UMAT havjc vdu pcoGeftvAeb thc
TO DO ? I ?
KT TW'ftT Y*C**6UT WiT^C *SKS
ftBOuF WKSCOU1...............
tOutOvj'T HC UKF TO KV>Gv4 !IOHEfcf 'tOA tfTTCF *mxz\c//," ^sk : x .
A Look Withinby Kneep Debends
Oh YoJrt  gecfc" !
Ar\d  tho\*f)t -f^r a SCio^ 
hat ^ou. rn^M be coo I o
He^/ Tha^ /ooks lekk 
3s coo I "ape/ D^a Mirv 
if X borrow ti?
Ec, \non
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw

---------------------------------------------------

 File Edit Drau Mone Measure Animation
# File Edit Window Search Format Font
Prelude1 Confuti (IMP)
Wordsworth's Preluditi vs. Honda's Prelude;
Tb get ahead in college, it helps if comes with either two built-in 800K lets you run MS-DOS programs,
you choose a brilliant roommate. Like a drives, or one drive and an internal Whichever Macintosh you choose,
MacintoshTpersonal computer. And now 20-megabyte hard disk. As well as a you can use the latest, most advanced
there are two models to choose from, choice of two new keyboards. software. And that means youll be able
The Macintosh Plus, which comes Inside, the SE also has an expanto work faster, better and smarter. ^ 
with one800K disk drive and a lull megasion slot, so you can add a card that lets No two ways about it. 
byte of memory(expandable to four), you share information over a campusrpi f A irKoefAnd the new Macintosh SE. Which wide network. Or another card that 11 Jc pUWa. IU Uc yUUI UCM.
CMU Computer Store 
University Computing Center
Now theres more 
tran one way to get
^ Affe0n^*A^kK>ifknprskffeee*ekmifkr(oAbkimuskKlfKl^ans()rhisnMekmBs()oAl^mpuskshKM-D()cerifkKerlk^

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage D9
French film about the life of a saint to play Fulton
Therese, the new French film about the 
life of the Saint runs through Tuesday, April 
28, at the Fulton Theatre, 101 Sixth Street, downtown. This intense, provocative picture 
won all six major Cesars (the French Oscar) including Best Picture and Best Director 
(Alain Cavalier). Filmmakers at the Fulton 
will also present special weekend matinees
simplicity of faith, Cavalier created stark, 
dramatic sets. The film has no background music. The rare touches of color seem even more dynamic against the black and white of 
the nuns habits. Commenting on this style, Andrew Sarris wrote in The Village Voice, 
The film, exquisitely photographed with severity and sobriety, keyed to the morbid
ahkfkrk and Mushkf akfkri will form a double feature
of Mother Teresa, back by popular demand 
after its initial run at the Fulton in 
December. For exact screening times of 
Therese and Mother Teresa, call Film
makers at the Fulton at 471-9700. General 
admission is $4.00. Admission for members 
and students of Filmmakers, senior citizens 
and children under 12 is $2.50.
Therese depicts the life story of Therese 
Martin, a young French girl living in the 
late 1800s who had an intense desire to join 
her two sisters who were Carmelite nuns. 
Aided by her father and a visit to the Pope, 
she attains her goal and becomes wedded to 
Christ. She is a cheerful, hard-working, selfsacrificing nun who is liked and admired by 
all. Therese eventually contracts tubercu
losis. Her condition, exacerbated by lack of 
proper care, the harsh conditions of the 
convent and the doubts that attack her faith 
eventually lead to her demise. Therese 
Martin died in 1897 at the age of 15, leaving 
behind her now-famous diary. She was 
canonized in 1925.
In preparation for the film, director Alain 
Cavalier studied many religious documents 
and met with many members of holy orders. 
He became fascinated with the relationship 
between Carmelites and Jesus Christ. He found that each nun literally took Jesus 
Christ as her bridegroom, loving him as a 
min, not as a spiritual entity or repre
sentation. As he reveals in the film, this 
union inevitably creates a problem of dis
placed sexuality and faith.
To emphasize the nuns purity of heart and
black of the nuns habits, is made up of terse tableaux of the everyday routines of a 
convent punctuated by interludes of quietly frenzied mortifications of the flesh.
This film not only swept the Cesars, but 
also won the Jury prize at the 1986 Cannes Film Festival. In addition to the fascinating 
subject matter and powerful images, the 
inspiration for these awards was no doubt 
due to the outstanding performance by 
Catherine Mouchet in the title role. When 
asked what determined his choice of 
actresses, Cavalier responded simply, Catherine lives her theatrical work with the same rigor that Therese lived her vocation as a 
Carmelite.
Like Therese, Mother Teresa is a 
small miracle of a film which chronicles 
the legendary benefactor to the poorest of the poor. This documentary was filmed by two 
Canadian sisters, Ann and Jeanette Petrie, 
who began to document the work of the 
energetic 76-year old in 1980. Five years 
later they completed the project, having filmed in ten countries on four continents. 
This prodigious venture was created without 
the backing of a studio.Sir Richard Attenborough served as 
executive producer and also narrates the film. 
Mother Teresa was filmed by Ed Lachman, 
known for his work on Susan Seidelmans 
Desparately Seeking Susan and David 
Byrnes True Stories.For exact screening times of both films, 
please call Filmmakers at the Fulton at 
(412) 471-9700.
SI68 PENN AVE. n ^
Pkene363-#Q5Zmii&gSgg 
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.tax
cpfeng cupkf - cpkbeil 
Student Film Showing at Pittsburgh Filmmakers
When Pittsburgh Filmmakers holds it annual Student Film Screenings on Friday and Saturday, April 24 and 25, a 
name familiar to and popular with local 
audiences will appear on the program. 
Lynn Cullen, famous for her witty and offbeat features on WTAE-TVs Action News, will be working with the students 
and instructors of Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
Film Production Program to make her
Show to feature a film by 
WTAEs Lynn Cullen
first 16mm film. The finished product will be showcased in the Student Screenings which will begin both Friday 
and Saturday evenings at 7:00 pm in Filmmakers Oakland Screening Room, 
205 Oakland Avenue. The show will 
exhibit selected works produced this year 
by the students enrolled in a variety of 
film and video classes. Each night a 
different program will be shown, and each 
includes super-8 and 16mm films as well as videotapes. The event is free and open 
to the public.Like other students of Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Film Production program, Ms. Cullen will learn the many stages 
and techniques required to produce a short, 16mm film. Assisted by PF instructors, 
student production crews and equipment, 
Ms. Cullen will write, direct, shoot and 
edit her two-minute film during the week
prior to the Student Screenings.Award winning filmmaker, Brady 
Lewis, Department Head of Pittsburgh Filmmakers Film Production program, 
will oversee the entire project with the 
help of PF faculty member and wellknown local documentary filmmaker Tony Buba. Currently, Mr. Lewis and Ms. Cullen are working on the planning and production elements of the upcoming film. Commenting on the forthcoming 
event, Mr. Lewis noted, In addition to her work in television, Lynn has some 
background in 16mm filmmaking. Tony Buba, the students and I are excited about 
helping her make this film.A grand opening extravaganza is planned for the Friday, April 24 Student 
Screening at 7:00 pm. Ms. Cullens debut as a filmmaker will be celebrated 
with a gala event unlike anything 
recently witnessed in the Tri-State area and WTAE-TV will be there, live on the 
scene, to spread the news to those unable to attend.
In addition to Ms. Cullens film, the 
Student Screenings will feature the work of many Pittsburgh Filmmakers students 
including Elin Drayne, Maureen Albano, 
Bob Bates, John Bick, Nick Danko, Casey Lawrence and many others. A 
different program will be presented each 
night but both evenings will begin at 
7:00 pm in the Filmmakerss Oakland 
Screening Room, 205 Oakland Avenue. For more information, call (412) 681- 5449.
Hvrer biiHMjHr d8e
rRorebrjfr(
After youre done with school, you face one of the hardest lessons in life:Without experience, its tough to get a job. And without a job, its tough to get expener.ee.At The Will Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something you dont start earning until after graduation.But while youre waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advantages that experience brings.For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer understanding of the whole complex world of business.Our tighdy focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitionswhether in management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or rall business.And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200.* Ext. 1066 or mail the coupon-and start your I subscription to The Vfell Street Journal at student savings erf up to $48 off the regular subscrip bon price.Thats a pretty generous offer. Especially when you consider what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.
Pro subscribe, call 800-257-1200?I I Ext 1066 toll-free.
Of mail to The Wall Street Journal, 500 3rd Ave W SeaIWA 96119
? Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal fcr *66I sai-ing at $4Koff Ikr regular snbsrrtptum pno
? Send me 15 weeks for $26 O Payment enclose
TheWfcll Street Journal.
74SHT TUe dmh (ban at the Amenam dmam 2QQ| 
*ln Pennsylvania, call 800-222-3380 Ext 1066

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanApril 21, 1987
Emo Philips to bring his own brand of comedy to Pittsburgh
Im a great lover... Ill bet
continued from page D1
body goes through as much contortion 
onstage as his mind
Granted, he looks like an accident 
performed by a confused fairy who tried to 
turn a treefrog into a prince, but he has a 
magnetism few 8-year-olds can resist No, 
really, Emo has his attractive moments. The 
pajama top he wears onstage brings but the 
green in his eyes, even though it makes him 
look like he just got up from his nappy
time. His comedy never made it out of 
nappy-time, though. He sounds perpetually 
tired and dazed, and his jokes sound like they 
come from that oblivious state between 
awake and comatose. Most of his one-liners 
become punch lines before he finishes them.
Although Philips claims to have sacked 
the religious jokes to avoid being 
sacrilegious, some of his jokes have definite 
pointers to his years of Bible study. He calls monotheism a gift from the gods. Emo is 
also one of a small number of Republican 
comedians, as evidenced by a joke about his 
grandmother whose brain had died but whose 
heart was still beating: Gosh, weve never 
had a Democrat in the family! References to 
his problems with asthma pop up too: I had
an asthma attack today... three asthmatics 
attacked me... but I should have heard them 
hiding.
The comedian is also an actor and a love 
machine. Im a great lover....Ill bet. Emo 
starred in the remake of Juufnky su shk 
yknskf uo shk Eifsh, playing Nimrod, the 
fearless, foolish scientist. At the same time, 
he volunteered for a string of win-a-date-withEMO contests, one of which yours truly 
came very close to winning. Sigh.
Emo has a musical side too, but it never comes unto its own. He plays with a 
trombone, but he never makes a note with 
it. His finale demonstrates about as much 
musical prowess as Steven Wrights Rachel 
Dear, which is composed of only three 
different chords. Emos Downtown Downers Grove is an nearly-rhyming backhanded tribute to Downers Grove, Illinois, 
home of the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship Press and former home of Emo 
Philips. Emo now has no fixed address. He lives wherever hes performing.
Pittsburgh will be Emo Philips home for 
a short time while Emo plays the 
Funnybone at 3002 Sawmill Run Blvd on 
April 28th. Comedy fans be warned though - 
- the Funnybone enforces the drinking age at 
the door, so dont spend the eleven bucks on 
tickets unless youre over 21. Yeah, Im 
upset too, but Emo will play plenty of other 
places before we hear the last of him.
PBTs Season to finish up with 
yuppklei
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
aifsin Arrersins Enskfsienmkns Edesuf 
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will conclude its final season at Heinz Hall with four 
performances of the classic full-length comic 
ballet yuppklei on April 23, 24, 25, and 
26. The fairytale of yuppklei , based on a 
story by E.T.A. Hoffman, features an 
eccentric old toymaker, Dr. Coppelius, who 
brings to life his many toyshop creations, including his favorite doll Coppelia. The 
ballet also presents the romantic story of 
Franz, a young Bavarian villager who spies 
the beautiful doll sitting in a window and, 
mistaking it for human, falls in love with it. 
This riles his real-life sweetheart Swanhilda, 
whose plots to show Franz that she is his 
only real love result in the main action of 
the ballet
The ballet is being staged by Frederic 
Franklin, after the choreography of ArthurSaint-Leon. Franklin has recieved praise for 
his staging of the classics, yuppklei being one of his specialities according to the 
Pessrbufgh Pfkrr. The ballet is set to the 
music of Leo Delibes, and decor is by 
William Pitkin.
For three performances, the comic role of 
Dr. Coppelius will be played by former PBT 
dancer Charles Hagan. Hagan, well known 
by Pittsburgh audiences for his superb 
characterization and comic timing, danced the 
role with PBT for eight years. The PBT last 
performed yuppklei at Heinz Hall during its 
1984-1985 season. PBTs Jay Kirk will dance the part in the April 25 performance.
Performance times will be at 8:00 p.m. on 
April 23, 24, and 25. On April 26, the 
performance will be at 2:00 p.m..Tickets for yuppklei range from $6.00 to 
$30.00 and can be purchased by calling the PBT office at 281-0360. Better reserve seats 
early, as some seating sections have already
YOU JUST GOT THE KEY TO YOUR FUTURE
- EX PCTf tCfMS HMORRLt I PITTSRURGH IGNfC ACfS SGOMGfRAND FORD CREDIT HELP YOU GET THE KEYS TO YOUR NEW CAR.
The key ingredient in your new car pur
chase can be pre-approved credit from you a $400 check after the purchase or lease.
Ford Credit and your World Class The money is yours whether you finance
Pittsburgh Metro Ford Dealers. If you COL^c> or not
^ c The amount of your credit
depends on which of these qualified 
vehicles you choose:
Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus. 
Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II,If you do, youll receive a $400 cash Ranger,
allowance from Ford. Make your best deal So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock
on any qualifying vehicle and use the money you must order by June 1,1987, and you must
toward your down payment, or Ford will send take delivery of any vehicle by August 31,1987.
GET ALL THE DETAILS TODAY AT
are working on an advanced degree or 
graduating with a Bachelors Degree ^ ^ .
between October 1,1986 and Sepd
tember 30,1987, you may qualify 
for this special college graduate ^
purchase program. ^
E.A.
BRIC
Motors
K3EVILLE
Bob Smith Ford
CASTLE SHANNONFORDI
sold out for this timelessly popular ballet
Time to... Care More, Share More
United Way
Allegheny Ford TruckBobe Charapp FordJohn Coxon & Sons Ford
HARMARVILLE
Donehoo Ford
BELLEVUE
McCrackin FordJim McKain Ford
WEXFORD
Ramsey-Sturman Ford
WEST MIFFLIN
Stuckey-Emes FordTalarico MotorsTarget FordWoltz & Wind Ford
HEIDELBERG

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage Dll
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Positions open for assistant com
puter operator. Part-time, no experience necessary, pay-rate variable, work study not required. For more info call Karen at 268- 7674.
Wanted: Youth Group Advisor for part time, flexible hours, prior experience working with youth. As participant or advisor. Excellent organizational, planning and communication skills. Call 279-7600. Send resume to Temple Emanuel, 1250 Bower Hill Rd., Pgh., PA 15243.
Counselors Needed: New Hampshireboys camp. 60th season. June 20-August 20. Tennis, swimming, water-skiing, archery, crafts, trip crafts, coaches. Call Chuck fllig, 412-337-6837 from 5-9 pm.
SUMMER WORK - Full Time. $7.50 pay rate. All majors can apply. Openings in various areas throughout the North Hills, South Hills, and East suburbs. Scholarships offered. Internships possible. Car needed. Call 1-5 pm 823-6690.
EMPLOYMENT: Engineers, CADDoperators - 100 Pittsburgh / SuburbanCompanies list, complete with addresses + phone numbers. $40.00 fee. Send your name, address, with check or money order to: Bottom Line Resume, P.O. Box 110167, Pittsburgh, PA. 15232.
Housing
Tech House needs Fall Residents(male or female). Will be located at Roselawn 15. Seeks people who arent afraid to talk about God. For more information call 268- 8618.
Excellent Summer Rentals  Furnished rooms near campus by the week or month. Featuring maid and linen service, utilities paid, private bath, parking and low rent. Call today 682-7010.
Roommate(s) sought  2 to share 3- bedroom apartment. $ 130/month -rntil. Shadyside. Call George or Steve, 682-2015.
Sq. Hill  large 2 & 3 BR for rent. Lg., w/w, laundry. Wilkins Ave., 5-min. walk to CMU. Sept. 1, $540-$685. 363-3560.
Sq. Hill area  Furnished 2-bedrm., living, equipt kit, wall to wall caipet, ample storage space. Available May 1, $425-t-electric, heat included. Call 731-3894.
Shadyside. Large two bedroom apartment Convenient to CMU campus. $385 (includes heat) + electric. Available May 1: 422-0262.
Shadyside Summer Sublet: 2 bedroomavailable, 2 baths, kitchen, dining, living, balcony, sunroom. 8 min walk to CMU. $145/mo + utilities. Call 786-1039.
Services
Attn: Greeks, Groups, S.G.A.: Getyour point across with Buttons N More. Quantity prices available for 25 ands up. 683- 3846.
Do you live in the New York /New Jersey area?If you do we can transport your belongings to your home at the end of this shcool year. For information visit the Morewood lobby today, April 21, or Thursday, April 23, from 4:30 - 7:30. A $25.00 deposit is required to insure your place. If you have any questions call Collegiate Movers @ 268- 4748.
Wanted:
Wanted: One reel to reel tape player that is probably taking up too much room in your apartment Price negotiable. X4268.
Autos
SEXY??
No! Reliable? Yes! 1976 Ford Granada..4 door, 6 cyl, automatic transmission, PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683-4262 evenings.
Graduating Students, First-time buyers, No credit  Call George Potts 264-9350.
Clnstle 87
faisfre# tfte best of luck to*.
Rudi, Jack and Chris in the 
upcoming year
and Ben with his future endeavors (especially on the sheep farm).
Safe, Permanent Hair Removal by licensed ElectrologisL Call Evie Wasosky at 521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
Training for the Pittsburgh Marathon? Call Hartwood Sports Medicine & Wellness Center for help in preparation and achieving peak performance. Ask for Dr. George Pappas; 681-3003 (Oakland).
Quit Smoking for Good NO Medication NO Weight Gain Reduces rates for students and employees. Day and Evening hours Monday-Saturday. For further information ask for Dr. George Pappas: 681-3003 (Oakland), Hartwood Sports Medicine and Wellness Centers.
QUESTION #2.
HOW CAN THE BUDGET-CONSCIOUS COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY?
a) Save over 50% off AT&Ts weekday rates on 
out-of-state calls during nights and weekends.
b) Dont buy textbooks when Monarch Notes will do 
just fine.
c) Save 38% off AT&Ts weekday rate on out-of-state 
calls during evenings.
d) Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high quality 
service.
e) Hang around with the richest kids in school; let them 
pick up the tab whenever possible.
If youre like most college students in the western hemisphere, you try to make your money go a long way. Thats why you should know that AT&T Long Distance Service is the right choice for you.AT&T offers so many terrific values. For example, you can save over 50% off AT&Ts day rate on calls during 
r weekends ^ until 5 pm Sunday, and from 11 pm 
\lo (to 8 am, Sunday through Friday.Call between 5 pm and 11 pm,Sunday through Friday, and youll save 38% off our day rate.Ever dial a wrong number? AT&T gives you immediate credit if you do. And of course, you can count on AWT for clear long distance connections any place you call.To find out more about how AT&T can help save you money, give us a call. With a little luck, you wont have tcThang arouncTwith the rich kids. Call toll-free today, 222-03Qfl
AT&T
The right choice.
1906 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanApril 21, 1987
Announcements
Carnegie Mellon Drama. The Pajama Game. A musical comedy directed by Gregory Lehane. Kresge Theatre, College of Fine Arts. For ticket and time information call the Box Office at 268-2407.Ruth Duckworth presents her work at 2100 Smallman Street through June 7. Sponsored by the Society for Art in Crafts. Gallery hours are: 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesdaythrough Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. For more information call 261-7003.Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation. Flowers of the Amazon: Watercolors by Margaret Mee is exhibited thorough June 13 on the fifth floor of Hunt Library. Gallery hours are: 8:30 am - noon and 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Friday. For more information call 268-2434.Papyrus, Pens, and Pixels Exhibit The ways that changing technology have altered our alphabet Letterforms have changed with the inventions of the steel pen, the printing press and the computer. Tools of lettermaking shown. Exhibit designed by five CM senior graphic designers. Hunt Library 4th floor, Fine & Rare Book Room. Hours are 8:30 am - 5 pm through May.The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the Graduate School of Industrial Administration Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more information call 681-3181.Buhl Science Center. Lirkfeum. Journey to an energetic and colorful world where blazing lights and magical images glow and gyrate to music by rock's most spectacular artists in Laserium, presented live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 321-5554.
"yuluf," nineteen do-it-yourself modules explore the mysteries behind everyday color phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 inn, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300."Beu yufnkf," interact with newly-hatched chicks and ducklings - new ones hatching weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
"Imigk Imigeniseun," hands-on modules explore amazing images - let your imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday, and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
"Fuubiuls Pkndulum," displays proof of the Earth's rotation Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321- 4300."ahk Reghs Muvkr" You're the star performer in Buhl's new action-packed exhibit exploring the body in motion! Exciting hands-on activities  Momentum machine, Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - let visitors investigate the mechanics of motion "step by step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
Obrkfvisufy. Weather permitting, view Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
Ribkmiyr. Discover Raceways, a traveling exhibit from the Association of Science and Technology Centers (ASTC). Explore momentum, gravity, acceleration and friction with four fast-action, hands-on modules that actually parallel experiments conducted by Galileo and Newton! At 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; through May 3.
yipsevkr uo shk cun. Journey through the solar system from the edge of the universe to earth. Audiences explore each of the planets and their satellites, as well as asteroids, comets and meteoroids en route. At 2 pm, Monday through Thursday; 2 pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4:15 pm, Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday; through June 9.
cpibk afep. Becone an astronaut aboard the space shuttle! Primary students will launce
from Kennedy Space Center on an imaginary journey to the sun and moon. At 12:45 pm, Saturday and 3 pm, Sunday.Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Children's Theatre. Rapunzel. Rapunzel, Rapunzel so pretty and fair is trapped by a wicked witch in a high tower. But have no fear for Rapunzel has long golden hair...and the prince is a pretty good climber! This ageold story is a Playhouse Jr. favorite, at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through May 31.
Events
1 Tuesday
 JL Movies
Pandora's Box, starring Louise Brooks, Francis Lederer ami Carl Goetz. Sensational film about a woman who becomes a prostitute, then is murdered. Brooks's performance may be the greatest of her era. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept of Architecture Lecture. Christian Norberg-Schulz speaks on "Thoughts on Current Architecture" at 8 pm in WeH 7500. A reception follows.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages Program sponsors a French Language table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
1 y Wednesday
mdmd Movies
Ginger and Fred, starring Marcello Masnroianm ana uiuneita Masrna. Acting mgnlights this latest Fellini film about an old dance team that is reunited on TV. The film becomes a satire on the television industry. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept of Mechanical Engineering Guest Lecture. Professor Thomas R. Kane speaks on "Formulation of Equations of Motion of Mechanical Systems" at 3:15 pm in Scaife hall Auditorium. Coffee and donuts are served at 2:45 in the Scaife Hall Lounge.
Workshops
Culture Workshop. curhe (Japanese Food) at 10 am in the Skibo Ballroom.
Music
Dept of Music Graduate Recital.Maureen Budway, voice, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages Program sponsors a Spanish Language table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
23Thursday
Movies
Murder Ahoy, starring Margaret Rutherford, Lionel Jeffries and Charles Tingwell. Another delightful Miss Marpler thriller, as Agatha Christie's super sleuth investigates a murder on a naval cadet training ship. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.Woman in the Dunes. DH 2210 at 6 pm. 
Admission $1.Japonese and Sandakan 8. DH 2210 at 8:30 pm. Admission $1.Broken Down Film and Yojimbo. DH2210 at 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Professor Glenn C. Loury, political economy at the Kennedy School, speaks on "Behavioral Aspects of Welfare Reform: AKey to Urban Economic Development" at 5 pm in Breed Hall, Margaret Morrison. Open to the Public.Dept of Psychology Collopuim. Dr.Golman-Rakic, Yale School of Medicine, speaks on "Regulation of Behavior by Representational Memory; Role of Prefromtal Cortex" at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH. Coffee is served before the lecture in the Psychology Lounge.John Reece, Mark Coblitz and Don Jones, Strategic Planning Associated, Inc., speak on "Value Realization: A Perspectiveand Approach" at 1:30 pm in the Main Auditorium of GSIA
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages Program sponsors a German Language Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.English Table. The ESL (English as a Second Language) center sponsors an English Language Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
J A Friday
 Movies
Lady and the Tramp. Wonderful Walt Disney feature about a cocker spaniel's romance with a free-spirited mongrel. Peggy Lee does four voices and sings three 'songs. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.A Trip to the Moon and the Purple Death from Outer Space. In Melies's classic, fantasy, members of the Astronomic Club conduct a successful space launch. The Purple Death is a compilation of episodes from the futuristic serial, Flash Gordon Con4uci> iiic univciio. vramegic iviuseum oi nri Section of Film and Video at 8 pm. Admission $3.Crocodile Dundee, sponsored by AB Rims. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight Admission $1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Seminar. Stanley Kunitz, poetry, presents his work at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH. For more information call x2850.
Music
Dept of Music Senior Recital. Timothy LeFebvre, voice, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Children of a Lesser God, starring William Hurt and Marleen Mailin. Sympathetic study of a speech therapist's romance with a young deaf woman in this film adaptation of Mark Medoffs award-winning play. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40pm and 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.Destroy all Monsters. In this, the twentieth science fictiqn film made by Toho Studios, all the monsters gather for a reunion of sorts. In this virtually peopleless battle of the beasts, Rod an takes on Moscow, GodzillaNew York, Mothra-Peking, and Mansa-London. Is Tokyo spared for once? Carnegie Museum of Art at 1 pm. Admission 
$3.Himatsuri. This spiritual film was inspired by a 1980 incident in which a man in a small village murdered his family and then commited suicide. Yanagimachi, not interested in lurid details, sees it as a manifestation of the changes taking place in the village and surrounding environment Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.Stand by Me, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight Admission $1.
Music
Dept of Music Senior Recital Lorrin Vessella, voice, performs at 5 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.Dept, of Music Senior Recital. Ellen Wolfman, piano, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
Gaming Club Meeting. Open gaming meeting. Relax with a game - try anything from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite board game or strategy game. Meeting at 1 pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. For more information call x4217.
Sunday
r!' vF Movies
Arsenic and Old Lace, starring Josephine Hull, Raymond Massey, Peter Lorre and Cary Grant. Two little old ladies murder their guests who they feel need help. Hysterical comedy. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.An Englishman Abroad, sponsored by GALA. Adamson Wing at 7:30 pm. Admission is free.The Odd Couple, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 p, and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Dept of Music Concert Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Keith Lockhart performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Monday
/ Movies
Hair, starring John Savage and Treat Williams. A joyous, imaginative view of the 60s with outstanding music and dance sequences. Excellent Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Io yuu merh su plibk in innuunbkmkns, 
merbkllinkuur eskm, uf kvkns en The Tartan, rknd es su AyME / Unevkfresy 
Rkliseunr / yifnkgek Mkllun Unevkfresy / 
Pessrbufgh, PA 15213. cknd es by bimpur 
miel su shk ibuvk iddfkrr uf dfup es uoo is 
5017 Fufbkr Avk (ahk huurk bksmkkn DU ind 
AaW).
Plkirk enbludk shk oullumeng enoufmiseun 
mhkn rubmesseng kvknsr: aeslk uo kvkns, 
rpunruf, bfeko dkrbfepseun, lubiseun, disk, ind 
semk. In iddeseun, enbludk shk nimk ind 
phunk numbkf uo shk pkfrun rubmesseng shk 
knsfy; sher enoufmiseun mell bk urkd unly su 
bunoefm shk kvkns.The Tartan er nus fkrpunreblk ouf shk 
ibbufiby uf viledesy uo iny Evkns lerseng. In 
iddeseun, es fkrkfvkr shk feghs su kdes uf umes 
iny lerseng ouf publebiseun.
All kvknsr ifk ofkk uo bhifgk ind upkn su shk 
gknkfil yMU rsudkns pupuliseun unlkrr 
ushkfmerk nuskd.
Dkidlenk ouf AyME rubmerreunr er 
Wkdnkrdiy is 5 pm ouf shk nkxs 
mkkkr erruk.
THE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY

---------------------------------------------------

>r G
our dough mode FRESH doily
810 IVY STREET  SNADYSIDI682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO:
 Shodyside  Pt. Breere 
 Sq. Hill  Oakland 
 Friendship Park 
 Bloomfield
 Highland 
FAST FREE DELIVERY .. .
CALI FOR FREE DELIVERY 1 2 NOON TO 1 2 MIDNIGH
FREE DELIVERYALDBeee
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(Ail sandwiches come with melted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie............................4.00
Vi Hoagie..................................2.00
Hot Sausage..............................3.90
Meat Ball ......................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie............................3.20
Steak Hoagie.:............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. .................4.20
Cold Sub.................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe).......................4.70
(Root Ittlton Cspicolls with Ora 
Peppers, Mushrooms 4 that Spocial Touch)
*rash lottos*, tomoto. onion  untoss specitH# 
Papporsor Mushrooms - 25* Extra)
Shed light on
the matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY  7 -10 p.m
CALCULUS 
(Pr*. 1.H. Ill)
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
Sponeerd by Couraetng and Student Development Center 
Division ol Student Affairs
PH126A
PH126B 
PH126C 
PH 125B 
PH226B 
PH226C 
WEH 5415
Summer Housing Near Campus
 Furnished Rooms & Apartments, Private Bath All Utilities Paid
 Maid & Linen Service Laundry & Parking 
Only $70.00 weekly $230.00 monthly
682-7010
3 B.R. Shadyside Apt. Large (for 4-5), creatively designed, 1 1/2 blocks from heart of Walnut Street. Dont wait for leftovers: sign lease now for September. Summer sublet available. $500 ++. 521-9555.
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?For a free pregnancy test and confidential help call Birthright 
of Pittsburgh at 621-1988
Now... Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland Downtown
Room 212 107 Sixth Street
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 300 Fulton Building
3520 Fbrbes Avi* (cor Meyran) Pittsburgh. PA 15222 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412)562-1900
(412)683 3730
Womens 
Health Services
Fn - pregnancy testing daily Call for hours and instructions Almrtion services and ctuifKlcntial counseling available
Time to... Care More, Share More
Unibed Wy
COUPONi ? ? Our Gang Pizza ? ? 
j $2.00 OFF
Lifgk 2 Iskm Pezzi
622-7000
^ Expires 4/28/87
4523 Centre Avenue, Oakland Sun -Thurs 11am - 1am 
Fri - Sat 11 am - 2am
PALEcc
We feature Fords
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates Weekend Specials Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students and Parents' cards accepted.) Passenger Vans available also I/2 mile from Campus
For Reservations Across The U S And Canada
Dial Toll Free 800 237-2804
WE RENT PASSENGER VANS
holiday521-5700___  _ _ _Ik
pdylGSS" Merge Rent A Car
rort Q par 5600 W,.h,ns Ave Pgh PAI Cl I ra'ual (Squirr.t HiH)
HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT A CAREER IN PUBLIC HEALTH?
We specialize in preparing people from all aca
demic and employment backgrounds for public 
health specialties tailored to their interests.
You Can Become 
A HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATOR AN INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 
A RESEARCHER A TOXICOLOGIST A BIOSTATISTICIAN 
AN EPIDEMIOLOGIST A HEALTH PHYSICIST 
A LABORATORY DIRECTOR A GENETIC COUNSELOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST
For information, caU 412/624-3002 or write to 115 Parran Hall,Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBUC HEALTH
University of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

wEbH8eb GC
Confusion Compromises Election Process
The confusion that surrounded this years Student 
Government elections warrants some clarification. To 
the detriment of the process, there was no presidential 
debate this year.The debate is an important chance for 
candidates to air their views to the community before 
the elections. A debate was scheduled for the day 
before elections, but poor turnout spurred the 
candidates to agree to cancel the event. Normally a debate takes place a week or two prior to the actual 
elections to allow time for press and radio coverage of 
the debate before the elections take place. Senate 
Chairman Dave Goldstein attributes the mix-up to 
attempts to computerize the election process. When this 
fell through, the dates had to be moved forward, 
leaving no time for a debate. The confusion left a 
noticeable void, which hopefully will not appear again 
in future years.In addition, this years elections were marked with 
misunderstandings about when petitions were due and 
who was actually running for seats. The due date for 
petitions was not set at the beginning of the semester as 
the Senate Constitution requires. Many potential 
candidates did not discover that their petitions were due 
on April 7, until they read it that very day in The Tartan.
Adding to the mayhem, Alpha Phi Omega, the 
organization in charge of validating petitions and 
counting the votes, listed presidential candidates who 
had the appropriate number of signatures from their 
college on their presidential petitions as running for 
their Senate seats, even though many of them, like Shep 
Bostin and Andy Robitshek, were not up for reelection 
to Senate.
Hopefully, future elections will see better 
communication and more timely decision-making to 
facilitate a smoother election process.
Lksskfr:Sweepstakes Assistant Chair Clarifies Carnival Events
Editor:
I am writing this letter for three 
reasons: to offer my opinion of the 
editorial "Taking Carnival Too 
Seriously" (4/14/87), to clarify the 
events surrounding last Saturday's 
Buggy races and Awards 
Ceremony, and to finally thank 
some people who made 
Sweepstakes 1987 possible.
The editorial which appeared in 
last week's Tartan addressed the 
issues surrounding the seriousness 
of Carnival. The fact of the matter 
is that we (the Sweepstakes 
Chairmen) made rules to insure the 
safety of all the participants and 
had to enforce these rules. Of 
course the fun of Carnival is 
hampered by following rules but 
it's a fact about Carnival we have 
to deal with. Five Buggy 
organizations were included in the
exhibition heats so that they could 
participate in Sweepstakes. 
Participation is what the event is 
all about and we did what we could 
to include as many students as 
possible.
The two articles on Buggy in last 
week's Tartan contained wrongly 
reported facts that I would like to 
clarify. The front page article, 
"Buggy Rule Waived," stated that 
several organizations "would not 
have been able to roll any buggies 
next year" had the rule remained 
intact. These organizations would have been permitted one team each. 
When the rule was written, we 
made sure no organization could be 
completely shut out from the 
competition.
The article entitled "Controversy 
Overshadows Closing Ceremonies" 
also contained false information.Compubookie Called a Useless Service
Editor:When the Buggy preview was 
published in the Tartan, we 
wondered why Compubookie chose 
to remain anonymous. Now that 
Sweepstakes is over, the reason is 
clear. We too would be ashamed to 
put our names to such a poorly 
researched, inaccurate, and sarcastic 
document So to Compubookie:
Rarely have we seen so useless a 
piece of writing. You discounted 
thousands of hours and dollars 
expended by some organizations by 
giving them a scathing two* 
sentence remark. Did you ever go 
to a push practice or 
free-roll this year? Obviously not 
May we suggest that you not 
perform your service to the 
university in the future? Nice 
predictions, buddy.A few mechanics and pushers of
the down and out group that put 
both of its buggies in the top 10 
in the first year.Brett Bosley Stuart Vernon Bryan Roessler 
Doug Armstrong 
Darin Mar 
Dan Galvin 
Harvey Shaw
Edesuf'r Nusk: ahk aifsin funr 
yumpubuukekr buggy pfkdebseunr 
kvkfy ykif. Is er i bifnevil sfid
eseun. ahk bulumn er nus mfesskn 
by i mkmbkf uo ahk aifsin rsioo, 
bus by in inunymuur mkm-bkf uo 
shk bimpur bummunesy. aher 
ykif'r bulumn mir hkively kdeskd 
pfeuf su publebiseun. Bkbiurk uo shk 
unpfensiblk quilesy uo pifsr uo shk 
bulumn, shk sfideseun miy bk 
derbunsenukd.
Beta A's time of 2:11.73 on 
Saturday did not beat Spirit A's 
Friday time of 2:11.35. The 
Pittsburgh Police began leaving 
their stations before the course was 
ever opened to traffic. Finally, at 
the closing ceremonies, no smoke 
bombs were lit but merely an AB 
Tech fog machine was set off. Beta 
was handed their trophy but refused
to accept it  for this reason it 
was placed on a table.
Now that I have clarified some 
information, I'd like to thank all 
the people who made Sweepstakes 
possible. Although some may 
disagree, Buggy went extremely 
well this year. The design 
competition saw record attendance, 
the heats went off without a hitch
on Friday, and most importantly, 
no one was hurt. There were no 
police reports of push practice 
trouble, the trucks were safer and 
all judgement calls were made 
instantly with the help of video 
tape.
Trish Dimarco Assistant Sweepstakes 
Chair 1987Spirit Overlooked in Tartan Coverage
Editor:The Tartan claimed that Spirit 
members let off smoke bombs 
during the awards ceremony. It just 
so happens that the smoke was 
caused by AB Techs fog machine. 
Please dont blame us for things 
we didnt do.
Besides the factual errors, we felt slighted in your reporting. Our 
entire girls team, all fifteen 
pushers, all drivers, all the crew, 
and all the flaggers worked very 
hard all year to win. Not only did 
our A Womens team win, but 
they set a new Sweepstakes record 
finishing in 2:37. This team went
faster than any other girls team in 
the history of Carnival. Surely this 
was worth mentioning.
Spirit also swept Sweepstakes this year, winning both Mens and 
Womens. To our knowledge this has never been done before in the 
65 year history of Buggy. Dont 
you think this is worth some note 
too?Your coverage of the other Buggy 
organizations was even worse. 
Certainly other teams besides 
Spirit and Beta worked hard and did 
well. Then why were there no 
other teams mentioned? There were 
also no pictures of any of the top
buggies (a picture of our Sting 
which won Mens and Womens 
would certainly have been nice), 
any description of the races, or 
picture of the Chairmen.M.L. Wagner 
R. Bowie 
B. Caldwell 
D. Sowers
Edesuf'r Nusk: Rub Bumek mir 
bunsibskd by i aifsin Edesuf un 
Mundiy, Apfel 13 ouf enoufmiseun 
un shk pkfoufminbk uo shk cpefes 
Wumkn'r skim. As lhis semk, 
Bumek hid nu enoufmiseun.Indictment of State is Unfounded
Editor:
Mr. Isenbergs indictment of the 
State, in his article (Tax) Money is the Root of All Evil, is 
completely unfounded. Yes, 
depending on a persons political 
or moral perspective, legitimate 
criticisms can be found and 
substantiated for any form of 
governmental system. But to claim 
that government as a social 
institution is illegitimate is 
tantamount to denying people the 
right to organize themselves into a 
society.By equivocating taxation to 
extortion, Mr. Isenbcrg implies 
that governments are immoral; 
they should not exist. If he thinks,
on the other hand, that there are 
some govenments which can exist 
without taxing individuals, and 
that some form of government is 
necessary and beneficial, then he is 
either advocating true communism 
(which I doubt he is), or he is 
denying the administrators of these 
governments the right to 
reasonable compensation for their 
labor. Does he expect government 
to be the result of charity on the 
part of individuals? I do not think 
so.His assumption that such social 
necessities as transportation 
systems and general education 
would definately be provided for by free markets is a confusion of
macroeconomic dilemmas with 
microeconomic principles. Would 
he prefer to pay a toll every time 
he gets in his car and drives down 
the street or sue for the repair of 
potholes, along with clean air and 
water? Does he deny that general 
education is good for all society? Reasonably uniform educational 
requirements help to promote 
degree of social cohesion. Is that 
not the very basis for 
governments, social cohesiveness? 
A developed government is the 
necessity of a developed societyWould Mr. Isenberg that we run 
around in the woods with bows and 
arrows? Yes, there are
continued on page 1*

---------------------------------------------------

April 20, 1987The TartanPage 13
Are College Students Today Really More Conservative?
By TOM ISENBERG
I rejoice with USA Today in the finding 
that today's college students distrust political solutions to problems. It would be a happy 
development indeed if this translates into 
more pressure to get government out of our everyday affairs. USA 
Today is wrong, though, to think this means 
college students are 
becoming conservative.
Conservatives, after all, no more want to 
reduce government than do liberals. They 
simply differ as to where they think the 
government should throw its weight.yunrkfvisevk yumkf:
By AARON SOLOMON AND 
THOMAS HEIM
Capital Punishment is an issue that has 
come under great scrutiny within America during the past few decades. The clear 
division between those who argue the issue 
seems to be whether or 
not a criminal convicted of certain crimes can be 
killed. We feel that those who argue against ever 
killing criminals are 
mistaken in their beliefs, for many reasons. 
However, even those who would condone the 
killing of criminals are missing some strong points in their presentation of the problem 
to the public, thereby turning the issue into 
a philosophical one, and failing to give the 
people (especially lawmakers and judges) a 
true sense of the necessity for capital 
punishment.
Clarence Darrow, who some see as an authority on the issue, feels strongly that a 
criminal should never be killed, even if he 
should cause the murder of thousands of 
others. We reject his view for a number of 
reasons: First, one merely needs to look at the case of a criminal who has been given a 
life sentence in a state where the death 
penalty is never meted out. This criminal 
has been given, due to the enormity of his 
crime, the worst possible penalty he can ever 
humanely receive. Therefore, what wrong 
can this person do? He can cause prison 
riots, injure his fellow inmates, even murder 
the prison gurads, yet nunk of these can 
possibly make his sentence worse. A counter
argument to this might be that many life 
prisoners, perhaps most life prisoners, due to 
the high security environment, do behave 
during the period of their stay in prison. 
However, that stay in prison, due to the 
parole system and the inmates good behavior, is generally not very long. Once 
paroled, the number of repeat murderers is 
enormously disproportionate to the number 
of parolees that actually reform, due to the 
complete failure of our prison reform 
system. Statistics show that most of the life 
prisoners let out of prison early do return to 
a life of crime. In Criminal Justice 
Abstracts, a 40-month study has found that 
after a criminal convicted of a violent crime 
(murder, rape,...) has been released from jail 
on parole, there is a 55-75 percent chance 
that he/she will return to jail for a similar or 
worse violent crime. The point is, how can 
we possibly justify to the murder victims 
family, the rkbund semk ifuund, that we let 
this person out of jail, knowing the state of 
the reform system? That we let this person live?
Another reason for rejecting the Clarence 
Darrow never kill view, is one that can be 
found by simply looking at the situation 
through the eyes of the victim, the victims family, the community, and ourselves. The 
reason that we punish someone for a crime 
is that they have done wrong, and to allow
Conservatives might let you run your business in peace (assuming you don't sell the wrong magazines), but Lord help you if the cigarettes you smoke smell funny or the 
person you sleep with is... well, you get the idea. They'd have the government on your 
back faster than a liberal trying to redistribute your last dime.
Young people are likely to be libertarian, favoring individual freedom in the economic 
and the personal spheres. Don't take my word for it, though. Read Beyond Liberal 
and Conservative by William S. Maddox 
and Stuart A. Lilie, political scientists at the University of Central Florida.
Maddox and Lilie have restructured the
the person to commit this wrong without punishing him for it, is to lower our values, 
and the values of those around us. Human 
life is something that is very valuable. If we allow a murderer to live, and assign his life 
a value, after he has killed someone, is to detract from the value of the victim. To say that this killers life is worth anything, 
lowers not only the value of the victims life, but that of each and every life within 
our community, and this detracts from our 
own lives, and sense of well-being. One 
could argue that killing a criminal would 
seem to defile that very same sanctity of human life, but this is not so. If a person 
attacks you, and tries to murder you, you are legally allowed to kill that person in selfdefense. The reason for this is that the value of your life outweighs the value of the person attacking you.
Our society recognizes that because your life is valuable,when someone demonstrates 
that they are going to kill you, you are 
allowed, and actually required to do anything 
you can to save your own life. To save your 
life, you can incapacitate this would-be murderer in any way, up to and including 
killing him as he has lost the right to be 
protected. In this same way, when someone 
has murdered, and demonstrated that they would be willing to kill another human 
being, they have lost that right to live 
within our society, and must be killed so 
that no other person could ever conceivably 
be hurt.Walter Bems and E. Van Haag, who are 
seen as authorities on the pro-capital 
punishment side of the issue, feel that there 
are times when a criminal should be killed. However, we do not feel that they present 
cases to the public that make it incumbent 
upon the juries and lawmakers of this country to apply this form of punishment in 
typical, everyday cases. People must be 
made to see the death penalty as the only 
solution to a large range of problems. Some 
bothersome situations that we see, for 
example: There are serial murderers who 
have killed fifty, or a hundred people, in the 
most horrible fashion before they are finally 
caught. These people have then been 
allowed, through loopholes in our justice 
system, to plead insanity, and escape any 
punishment whatsoever. There are people, 
who for some complaint or another, have 
tried to assasinate the president of our 
country. Our nations leaders have been 
killed or seriously injured, and these crazed 
killers have merely been given life sentences 
in jail, or placed in a modem insane asylum. 
It is a threat to our national pride and unity 
if the life of our leader can be threatened or 
taken, and the person who does this is 
merely placed in jail. Finally, after capturing 
and putting to trial Nazi criminals (after 
thirty or forty years of searching), who have 
caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of 
people  that is, a number followed by five 
zeroes  are they to be freed too?
window through which politics is viewed by 
showing that there have always been four ideological camps, not two: liberal,
conservative, populist, and libertarian.Liberals favor personal freedom, but would regulate economic life. Conservatives favor 
economic freedom, they say, but would 
restrict personal or moral freedom. 
Populists (or interventionists) favor state involvement in all spheres. At the extreme 
they become totalitarian and thus the complete opposite of libertarians.
Maddox and Lilie do not base their analysis on how people label themselves, but on 
their positions on issues. They conclude 
that among young people, conservatism is almost completely pre-empted by libertarianism.
Young people who oppose government activity in the economic realm usually 
combine that with a favorable view of 
personal freedoms that is not consistent with 
conservative ideology, they write.This doesn't contradict the survey finding, for instance, that students think cocaine and marijuana are harmful. As hard as it is for 
conservatives to grasp, you can personally disapprove of certain un-coerced activities 
(such as drug use or selling PCs to the 
commies) yet still believe people should be
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by students 
at no cost to members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Column* are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or 
staff. Latter* to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community
free legally to engage in them.
Without the freedom to make and learn from mistakes, society becomes a nursery of permanently arrested children instead of a 
community of responsible, self-governing adults.
Politicos in the two largest parties (Libertarians are the third, according to the 
Congressional Journal) are taking note of the libertarian coloration of today's youth. 
Edward Rollins, who headed Reagan's 1984 
re-election campaign, is said to have advised against pushing the New Right social agenda 
for this very reason. (The advice seems not 
to have lasted.)Those who think America is launched on 
some conservative era of indefinite duration may be as mistaken as those who think that after the Reagan aberration, Americans will re-embrace liberal welfare-statism.
If anything, the future looks libertarian. 
Not a bad prospect for a country bom, after all, in a libertarian revolution. Personal and 
economic freedom is what the Colonies and then America were about, and young people 
seem to understand these goals better than anyone else.
aum Irknbkfg er i gfiduisk rsudkns en shk 
Englerh Dkpifsmkns ind i bindedisk ouf i 
Mirskfr en Pfuokrreunil Wfeseng.
A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names wiH be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or refect any tetter 
or column. Copyright 1967 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie Mellon
University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AH rights raeerved.
Library of Congress ISSN : 0690-3107.
Necessity of Capital Punishment
Lksskfr yuns.:GALA Lashes Out at Heim andSolomon
Editor:
1) cenbk shk derbuvkfy uo AIDc en shk 
Uneskd csiskr, unly I.V. dfug urkfr ind 
humurkxuilr mkfk dyeng/
This is incorrect. An alarming number of 
young children have died of AIDS. None of 
them were homosexual. None of them wereI.V. drug users.
2) "...oundeng uo shk Giy And Lkrbein 
Alleinbk bundunkr emmufilesy, shk rimk 
emmufilesy shis hir lkd su shk AIDc 
pindkmeb
csup oundeng GALA, in ufgineziseun shis 
upknly pfumuskr pkfvkfrk rkxuil bkhiveuf."
GALA, as stated in our constitution on file 
with Student Senate, is an organization designed to provide a social atmosphere for 
the CMU gay community and its friends to 
talk and to learn. Our other goal is to educate 
the campus community about gay-related 
issues. The authors of this article prove that we still have a lot of work to do in the
campus education department. Neither person 
has ever been to a GALA meeting, so I dont see where they get the idea that we are 
immoral or that we promote perverse sex. 
The only sex we do promote is SAFE SEX
 avoiding contact with AIDS virus by 
avoiding certain sexual activities and using condoms for others. This is not perverse sex, 
this is fkrpunreblk sex! Were not spreading 
AIDS; were trying to stop it The gay 
community has always been at the forefront of AIDS prevention, and GALA, as a 
member of the gay community, does its part to educate its members and the community.
3) The authors quote a study performed (no 
year specified) in West Germany, and have 
neglected to check those findings with those of local organizations, such as the Pitt 
Mens Study, the Pittsburgh AIDS Task 
Force, and the Allegheny County Health 
Department. The authors have given us
continued on page 14
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Edesuf-en-yheko
Andrew Robitshek
Minigeng EdesufBurenkrr Minigkf
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
Nkmr EdesufFkisufkr EdesufEnskfsienmkns Edesuf
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
cpufsr EdesufPhusu Difkfuum EdesufPhusu Arregnmkns Edesuf
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Afs EdesufPfudubseun MinigkfAd Minigkf
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Durrekf Edesufaypkrksseng Minigkfyunsfebuseng Edesuf
John FriedmannJack Poller
yunsfebuseng Edesufyunsfebuseng Edesuf

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 21,1987
Lksskfr yuns.:Student Union Not Providing the Naked Truth
Editor:That this year's Student Senate elections 
drew a larger voter turnout than last's speaks 
to the increased concern over administration
journalism has played no small part in 
increased voter awareness. The pre-election 
flyer edition of The Student Union listed 
major presidential and senatorial candidates.
policy and quality of student life. Student It also made a pitch for its candidate, AllenHealth Center Explains AIDS
Editor:The letters A-I-D-S stand for Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome which is a 
desiase that is caused by a virus that attacks 
white blood cells (T-hymphocytes) in the 
human blood. The virus renders the person 
unable to fight other diseases because of the 
damage that it does to the immune system. The person infected with AIDS becomes 
vulnerable to life-threatening illnesses such 
as pneumonia, cancer, and meningitis;
The disease is passed from person to person chiefly during intimate sexual contact and/or the sharing of intravenous drug 
needles and syringes used for shooting 
drugs. When the virus enters the blood, the
Conservative Corner Called Attempt to Launch Holy War
Editor:
I would like to point out a very insidious 
immorality in the content of Solomon and 
Heims article. This is the incredible lack of 
interest in dealing with this important issue 
in a compassionate and constructive way. It 
is very obvious that they are simply trying 
to take advantage of the situation to disband 
GALA; otherwise, they would have spent 
time examining promiscuity among the 
heterosexual popultion of CMU. Theyve 
attempted to turn this into a holy war where 
all the homosexuals are evil, dirty people 
and all the heterosexuals are the good, 
virtuous people. In my opinion, if anybody 
is so evil and dirty, it is probably Solomon 
and Heim.
In all, it appears that the authors care more 
about disenfranchising GALA than they do 
about the publics well-being, and are using 
AIDS as an excuse and a smoke screen to 
launch a rather viscious attack on gay 
people. Anybody who reads the newspapers, 
or even watches the television for news, 
should be well enough informed about AIDS 
to know better than to believe the assertions 
in Solomon and Heims article. Its too bad 
Solomon and Heim dont have the guts to 
just present their prejudice against gays 
(based on their belief it is perverted and 
immoral) as the real reason they wish to 
eliminate GALA funding rather than drag in 
the whole tragic issue of AIDS and mangle 
the facts surrounding it
Christopher Young 
Research Programmer, Robotics
Former Lambda Criticizes Booth
Editor:
As president of Lambda Sigma Sophomore 
Honor Society during 1985-1986, I was 
pleased and very proud of my organization's 
performance in the 1986 Spring Carnival Booth Competition. The booth committee 
worked very hard and many of the members 
of Lambda Sigma devoted many valuable 
hours to the project. Winning the Independent competition was a proud and 
very happy moment for all of us. I was 
angered at The Tartan's lack of coverage of 
the Booth competition and especially upset 
that there was no pictures of some of the
body produces antibodies in response to the 
invader. These antibodies can be detected in 
the blood within two weeks to three months 
after infection. Once the individual is infected, several things can occur. Some 
people remain well but carry the virus and 
are able to infect others. Other people 
develop AIDS Related Complex (ARC) in 
which the person develops symptoms less 
severe than those with the classic AIDS. In 
some people, the immune system is 
destroyed and they develop the classic AIDS 
picture. The period of time from initial infection unitl the person shows signs or 
symptoms of the disease varies from six 
months to five years or more. Some 
symptoms and signs of AIDS may include 
persistent cough and fever associated with 
shortness of breath, multiple purplish 
blotches and bumps on the skin, night 
sweats, weight loss and fatigue. Some 
signs and symptoms of ARC may include 
loss of appetite, weight loss, diarrhea, fever 
continued on page 15
GALA Responds to Conservative Corner
continued from page 13
incorrect and obsolete data.
A) ahk rsknbh uo emmufilesy miny rkkm su 
hivk irrubeiskd en shkef mendr mesh AIDc 
vebsemr mir unduubskdly bfuughs ibuus by 
shk humurkxuil bunnkbseun su shk derkirk.
The authors imply that homosexual equals 
immoral. If we compared any group of 
straights, we would see that neither group 
has greater morality (assuming an objective 
definition of moral). In any case, AIDS does 
not go after the wicked and the promiscuous, 
as TV preachers, homophobes, and Messrs. 
Solomon and Heim would have us believe. 
AIDS, like all viruses, goes after anyone it 
can, gay or straight, promiscuous or 
virginal, young or old alike.
Michael John Marshall 
Treasurer
CMU Gay And Lesbian Alliance
Edesuf'r Nusk: ahk aifsin kdesufeil buifd 
nkeshkf bunbufr mesh shk upeneunr uo Mkrrfr. 
Hkem ind culumun, nuf igfkkr mesh shkef 
fkbummkndiseun ouf shk fkvukeng uo GALA'r 
oundeng. ahk aifsin isskmpsr su pfuvedk i 
oufum ouf shk ofkk kxbhingk uo edkir. ahk 
yunrkfvisevk yufnkf uo Apfel 14 mir 
publerhkd un shis birer.
Sigma Pres. Coverage
Greenberg, whose slogan, "He will not 
tacitly submit to administration injustice" 
unfortunately sounds like something one had 
to write 300 times in junior high. Though 
the flyer "centerfold" was entitled "The 
Naked Truth," TSU had a less-than-unbiased 
voters' guide. It presented candidates' stances 
on issues TSU (and Greenberg) considered 
salient without proving their salience to the 
student body. Divestment, for example, has not been established as the best policy for 
blacks in South Africa and for Carnegie Mellon. In lectures in his RSA history 
class, Andrew Barnes has argued that, rather 
than cut loose the slight percentage of blacks 
aided by Western corporate employment, the United States should recognize the African 
National Congress as a legitimate organization, making this non-drug-running 
organization eligible for the kind of funding 
that has been given to the South American 
"freedom fighters."Nonetheless, Student Senate candidates 
failing to toe the SU line were stamped 
"Weasel", a la Larry Flynt's "Asshole of the 
Month." "Weasels" included Toby Ayre and 
Andrew Robitshek, who, although they do 
not wear tie-dyed t-shirts, have good political 
and service track records. Candidate
Greenberg's major laurel seems to be 
condom sales at Entropy and the Bookstore: "He will not tacitly submit to lack of latex." 
One might argue, if he were that concerned about the utterly deafening outcry for 
available prophylactics, he would arrange to 
have them sold at Donner and Morewood desks: "Yeah, I'd like a pack of laundry 
tokens and, uh, two Rough Riders." (Could lead to more students doing their laundry at 
night.) It proved difficult to determine 
qualifications for weaselhood; two NO's 
garnered a weasel for one candidate, a nice, pretty black star for another, leading one to 
believe there were criteria other than those listed.
The Student Union's importance in light of 
administration media blitzes is pronounced. Watchdogs and whistleblowers are sorely 
needed here to avoid transformation into 
DOD University. Administration non
chalance over Tech House, reported by SU, 
in such an example. Certainly the noneditors 
may back any candidate they wish; anyone 
else may do the same. Presenting opinions 
as "The Naked Truth", however, leaves a bit 
to be desired in light of political 
bumperstickers on the collective tush.
T. VanderHeydenTruth With a Capital T
Editor:
Upon reading the Conservative Comer editorial (re: AIDS, April 14), my heart was 
filled with tremendous joy. At last, I said to 
myself, at last! In these days of blatant and 
outspoken immorality, here are two men 
speaking the truth. And I mean Truth with a 
capital T. Here we are, an institution of 
higher learning, funding GALA, a group of 
homosexuals so promiscuous that they could 
kill you with their spit. Misters Solomon 
and Heim gave me something real serious to consider through their breadth and depth of 
vision and research. I thought to myself, my 
goodness, theres a similar virus found in 
cattle, monkeys, and South African bedbugs. 
And what with all the perverse sexual 
behavior you find in that GALA group, the 
good Lord only knows if those homosexuals
should be allowed to have pets, or even what 
kind of new disease theyll threaten us 
normal people with next year. Brother Solomon, Brother Heim, please keep writing 
these insightful and informative pieces so 
that these immoral homosexuals will think 
twice about the way they defy Gods law and 
so that concerned students like me will get more involved in seeing that my money 
doesnt fund degenerate clubs like GALA. The only comfort I have is that in the year 
2014, more than 80% of the U.S. 
population will be dead or dying and that 
should pretty much take care of all the fruitcakes, leaving the good people alive and 
in peace.
Marie Parrette 
Creative Writing
Prof Questions Immorality of Homosexuality
Editor:
What moral perspective supports the view 
that AIDS is only a serious concern when it 
is discovered that people other than 
homosexuals and intravenous drug users 
contract the disease? What moral perspective 
supports the view that one ought to attack 
organizations providing support for the 
oppressed, a considerable number of whom 
are also sick or dying from a terrible disease?
Take away the funding of GALA in the name of morality, in the name of preventing 
the spread of AIDS to heterosexuals and 
those who dont shoot drugs? What moral 
perspective is that?''Whose morality? No 
morality that a thoughtful and 
compassionate person (or university) could 
embrace and be guided by in life.
Ernie Alieva 
Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Libertarian Perspective Disputed
winning booths.
I was pleasantly surprised at the additional 
coverage of this year's Booth Competition. 
Some of the pictures really showed much of 
the effort that was put into the booths. 
However, I should point out that you seemed 
to have overlooked some of the booths in 
the competition. While the winners of the 
Fraternity Competition were well represented 
in your pictorial, you neglected to show the 
first place winners of the Sorority and 
Independent Competitions.
Joseph A. Ferrugia 
Pioneers
continued from page 12governmental institutions and regulations in 
the U.S. that are prohibitive and 
unnecessary, to say the least. These are the 
results of a basically free and democratic 
system of government. I suggest that Mr. 
Isenberg reads the Federalist Papers. Mr. 
Isenbergs historical perspective is
completely off base. The claim that a tax rebellion was the impetus behind the 
Declaration of Independence and theConstitution is fallacious in the least. The 
Declaration was an assertion by the
Colonists that they had the right to be ruled 
by a relevant government, not one three 
months and three thousand miles away. 
Their cry was taxation without 
representation, not taxation alone, is 
immoral. The Constitution, in contrast, was 
anything but an act of rebellion. So much 
for our (as Mr. Isenberg defines the wend)
libertarian founding fathers.Mr. Isenberg is correct in criticizing some 
aspects of the present United States 
government, and especially its administrators. But to claim that taxation is 
extortion is to deny the legitimacy of the vast majority of existing governments. John 
Locke, a true libertarian, held that a society 
of people would not allow a tyrannous 
government to rule over them. So it is the 
governed that grant legitimacy to their 
State. If an individual has the right to 
governmental protection then he/she has a 
duty to support that government. In other 
words, it is Mr. Isenbergs responsibility to 
pay taxes, no matter how much he does not 
like it. It is also his duty to prevent 
governmental oppression and excesses. This 
is obviously where he is confused.
Mike Krill 
Jr. Economics M^jor

---------------------------------------------------

April 21,1987The TartanPage 15
Student Health Center Clarifies Risks, Causes of AIDS
continued from page 14
and fatigue.
It is estimated that 1.5 million people in 
the United States are infected with the virus. Of these, an estimated 100,000 to 200,000 
will develop ARC. With present knowledge, scientists estimate 20 to 30 percent of those 
infected will develop AIDS. Since there is no cure, many have died and many will die 
as a result of the illness. To date, approximately 73% of reported AIDS cases 
have occurred among homosexual and bisexual men. Seventeen percent of the 
reported cases have been among intravenous 
drug abusers. Hemophiliacs and people who 
have had blood transfusions prior to March 
1985 constitute 2% of the known AIDS cases, and about one percent of the cases 
have been among heterosexuals who have 
been sexual partners with an AIDS patientWho is at risk of getting AIDS? In order to 
answer the question, one has to understand 
how the virus is transmitted. The virus can 
be transmitted by sexual contact and sharing 
an infected hypodermic needle. An infected mother may transmit the virus to her baby
before or during birth. Transmission through 
blood transfusions is no longer the risk that existed prior to March 1985. Currently all blood donors are initially screened, and blood 
collected is tested for the AIDS antibody. 
THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 
STATES THAT THERE IS NO RISK CREATED BY LIVING IN THE SAME HOUSE AS AN INFECTED PERSON; 
CARING FOR AN AIDS PATIENT; EATING FOOD HANDLED BY AN 
INFECTED PERSON; BEING COUGHED OR SNEEZED UPON BY AN INFECTED 
PERSON; CASUAL KISSING; OR 
SWIMMING IN A POOL WITH AN INFECTED PERSON. There are no known 
cases of transmission by insect bite.
The populations at highest risk are:
1. Sexually active homosexual or bisexual men
2. Present or past users of intravenous drugs
3. Prostitutes, male or female
4. Female partners of bisexual men or male drug users
5. Heterosexual men and women with
multiple or experimental partners.
Although the AIDS virus is found in several body fluids, a person acquires the 
virus during sexual contact with an infected persons blood or semen and possible 
vaginal secretions. The virus enters the blood stream through small tears in the lining of the vagina or rectum during 
insertion of the penis, fingers or other objects. IT IS IMPORTANT TO KNOW 
THAT THE VIRUS IS TRANSMITTED BY CERTAIN HIGH RISK BEHAVIORS 
REGARDLESS OF SEXUAL 
ORIENTATION. The American College Health Association has differentiated sexual 
practices based on likelihood of transmission into three categories: Safe, Possibly Safe and 
Unsafe. Unsafe practices include;
1. Anal intercourse without condoms.
2. Vaginal intercourse without condoms.
3. Manual/anal intercourse (fisting)4. Oral/anal contact (rimming)5. Shared sex toys
Proper use of condoms reduces risk of transmission of the virus as long as the
condom does not break or tear. Use only 
synthetic condoms; natural skin condoms are not good barriers. Use only water-based 
lubricants; oil-based lubricants like crisco 
and vaseline can cause condoms to break.Drug use adds risk to the problem of 
stopping the spread of AIDS in three ways:
1. I.V. drug use may lead to sharing needles thereby transferring contaminated 
blood from an infected person to someone else.
2. Alcohol, speed, marijuana and poppers (nitrate inhalants) may damage the bodys immune system, making it more difficult to 
fight off disease.
3. Drugs impair judgment making it more 
difficult to make safe sex decisions.
If you would like more information on this 
subject printed information is available at 
the Student Health Center. Additional 
information is also available by calling the 
toll free hotline at the U.S. Public Health Service, 800-342-AIDS.
Anita Barkin, MSN 
Nurse Practitioner 
Student Health Center
SaysStudent 
Education and Prevention, 
Not Persecution 
Best Treatment for AIDS
SU Election Issue Causes Concern
Editor:
... In light of these [computer studies of 
the AIDS virus] our Student Activities Fee funding of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance condones immorality, the same immorality 
that has lead to the AIDS pandemic.
Using the same logic, Student Activity Fee funding of The Tartan condones bigotry and ignorance expressed in the Conservative 
Column, the same bigotry and ignorance 
that has led to atrocities committed against 
minority groups throughout all of human history. I think even Mr. Solomon and Mr. 
Heim would agree that ignorance and 
intolerance are far greater evils than any 
sexual practice. But nobody, as far as I
know, is proposing that The Tartans funding be revoked.
Everyone is endangered by AIDS. And drastic measures must be taken against the disease. Making gays and GALA into 
scapegoats will neither halt the spread of the AIDS vims nor find a vaccination or cure for the disease. We must fight the spread of AIDS by learning about it, by trying to 
eliminate or minimize our exposure to the virus, and by educating the uninformed. 
Education and prevention  not persecution 
 are the most effective defenses against 
that we have.Nancy Marie Ott 
ME/EPP 87
Editor:
On Wednesday, April 15, a special election issue of The Student Union was distributed 
to the students of CMU. In this issue, the SU vehemently endorsed Allen Greenberg for 
Student Senate President I have no qualms 
about Allen Greenberg or any of the other 
candidates. I do not know any of them 
personally. But I find it ironic that the SU is endorsing a candidate that has been a 
contributing member of the SU in its past 
issues. I believe the SU has stepped beyond a student publication to a propoganda newspaper to further its own interests.The SU has specifically identified Andy 
Robitshek as a candidate for President with 
too many conflicts of interest According to 
the SU, Mr. Robitshek is currently the 
Business Manager for The Tartan and a 
member of Theta Xi. How can they construe 
that these are conflicts of interest, when Mr. Greenberg, their presidential endorsement is 
affiliated with the SU? What is the
United States Senator Speaks on Soviet 
Outrages in Afghanistan, Urges Action
By SENATOR GORDON J.HUMPHREY
In its seven years of bloody warfare in 
Afghanistan, the Soviet Army has inflicted 
over one million casualties, mostly among non-combatants - - women, children, and the 
elderly  and produced five million Afghan 
refugees.Apply the numbers to our country: 
proportionately, they translate into 16 
million Americans killed and wounded, and 
80 million more living as refugees in 
Canada and Mexico. What this means is that 
many would be missing from your family 
and circle of friends.Tragically, the Soviets have largely 
succeeded in hiding their grisly crimes from 
the world. As catalogued by a number of human rights groups, these include burning 
civilians alive, bayoneting pregnant women, 
flinging the elderly from helicopters, and 
bombing and shelling villages 
indiscriminately, among other atrocities. The 
scale is so vast that a United Nations report 
warns that the war will lead inevitably to a 
situation approaching genocide.
In spite of these atrocities, for most 
nations, ours included, its business as 
usual with the Soviets and their puppets in 
Kabul.Incredibly, Afghan puppet diplomats are
still recognized as the legitimate 
representative of the Afghan people at the 
United Nations. The Afghan seat at the U. 
N. is held by traitors who maintain that 
Soviet forces were invited into Afghanistan to help maintain order. The 
New York Times has rightly called for the 
expulsion of these imposters but its call has 
gone unheeded by the U. S. and other 
governments.While we encourage and assist the Afghan 
Resistance in its struggle to liberate Afghanistan, we confer legitimacy on a regime which is cooperating with the 
Soviets in the genocide of the Afghan 
people.By sending these mixed signals, the United 
States appears weak in its support of the 
Afghan freedom struggle. Unfortunately, 
the American people, generally uninformed 
as to the extent of the carnage in 
Afghanistan, ask few hard questions of our 
governmentAmericans deserve better than a half-hearted 
policy in Afghanistan. You can play a role 
by letting your representatives in Washington know how you feel about the 
U. S. maintaining diplomatic relations with 
a government that has overseen the murder 
of a million of its own citizens.College students can also assist the Afghan
freedom fight in other ways. Students can 
organize letter-writing campaigns, fund
raising drives, class donations of food and 
clothing, and demonstrations in support of 
the resistance. Student groups can show 
various films depicting the fight in 
Afghanistan, to raise the awareness of their 
peers.
Students can also become active by sponsoring Afghan patients for medical 
treatment in the United States. Wounded 
freedom fighters and refugees arrive in the 
United States every month, and need 
sponsors to arrange hospital care and other 
assistance. My office and the Congressional 
Task Force on Afghanistan will be happy to 
assist you in this effort
You can also lawfully confront Soviet 
visitors to your campus. Dont let them get 
away with their propaganda. If you want a 
list of tough questions to ask, contact my 
office.
These are tangible ways you can help the Afghan people  a people who need your 
help desperately. Their struggle for freedom 
is our struggle, and their sacrifice an example of how even tne smallest ot nations 
can resist oppression by a communist 
power. They cant do it alone, though. Lets 
do all we can to help the Afghans regain 
their country and live in peace again.
difference?In recent weeks, the SU has come under 
fire from the Senate due to copyright violations. Ironically, it was Mr. Greenberg and Mr. Robitshek, who were the two 
senators arguing over the issues concerning 
the SU. It appears that the SU is trying to 
make a vain attempt to hamper Mr. 
Robitshek's candidacy to the Student Senate by endorsing their own candidate. How can a 
publication for the students of CMU. attack candidates without a rebuttal or argument 
from the candidates? It appears as if the SU is attacking Mr. Robitshek due to his past actions against the SU. This is not proper behavior for a student publication.
In determining the reactions of the 
candidates on certain issues involving 
campus life, the SU has shortened the 
responses into yes or no answers. The 
SU is being judgemental. It appears all the 
candidates that responded overwhelmingly 
yes to the the questions were rated with a 
star. Candidates differing from the questions 
were noted as weasels. How can the SU 
judge if an opinion question is correct if 
yes and wrong if no? Also, how can they 
rate a candidate as a weasel? It is detrimental 
to the candidates and to the election. There is 
no chance for a rebuttal against the SU for its labelling of the candidates. How can the 
SU, a student publication, which is paid 
approximately $8,000 from the activities 
fee, be allowed to do this?
By further examining the SUs chart, I 
found an astounding coincidence, Mr. 
Robitshek, who responded No to two 
questions was noted as a weasel, while Jeff 
Trull was given a star for answering No to 
the exact same questions. There is an obvious bias in the reporting from the SU. 
It is also interesting that two candidates, Mr. 
Greenberg and Greg Staresinic, have 
answered yes to all of the questions by the 
SU. These two candidates are listed as 
contributors to the SU.
I can not comprehend how the SU can be 
allowed to write articles harmful to others. 
Even as a possible joke, how can it be 
justified? Unless the SU is labeled as an 
Opinionated Newspaper by its staff, how can 
we justify funding it by students who object 
to its articles. I, myself, am not familiar with the organizations of the SU, The Tartan 
or the Student Senate. I can only understand 
the facts that are known to me and the 
campus through student newspapers. I do not object to the SUs existence. However, I 
object to the opinionated material in its 
issues. I also believe I am not the only 
student with these beliefs.
Bryan E. Wong

---------------------------------------------------

uAs LOGVi iE-ITis T dETbVO,EsAMD HISTORICALLY RECORDED CANDIDATE lOTRIGUmG.-Ttie Atlantic
m ASSOCIATION 1
with ATMITRRG ETTFreT
City Lights^)
Im -F-ly a -Mte
Up, up and away ... no, not beautiful balloons, but KITES. Kite Flight 87, 
Citiparks-sponsored kite contest takes place Saturday, April 25 at the Schenley 
Oval in Schenley Park. Registration begins at 11am and the actual kites 
begin flying at noon.
Bring your favorite home-made or 
store-bought kites to compete in one of 
the springs most colorful events.
Trophies will be awarded in the 
following areas for home-made kites: best constructed, best decorated and 
highest flying. For those with storebought kites, categories are most 
unusual and highest flying. All 
categories will have a first, a second and a third place winner.
All ages from junior to grandma can 
compete, so dont miss all the fun April 
25. Raindate is scheduled for May 2. 
For more information, call 488-8390.
Features
(Gtott m xitm 
rawpctt?
Calling all old racquets. Calling all 
racquets. Citiparks is now on the 
lookout for tennis racquets and tennis 
balls foruse by the citys youth. 
Citiparks is in need of 500 brave 
racquets to go into active service to help 
promote free city-wide tennis programs.
To donate your tennis racquet to the 
program call Citiparks at 244-4188. 
Release your old racquet from captivity 
and set a child free.
(GkD9 GdDirlM
The Carnegie Museum and Libraries 
along with Pittsburghs Aviary, Zoo 
and public Television station, 
WQED/13 have set up a program called 
Animal of the Month. This months 
animal is none other than the gorilla.The program is a co-operative between 
the participants that is based on a survey 
to find Pittsburghs favorite animals. 
Now complete the animals have each 
been given their own month and there will be special highlightings of an 
animal each month. For example, this 
month WQED showed A Passion to 
Protect which was the story of a unique 
animal sanctuary in Britain.
Look for more of these special 
exhibits at the Carnegie and learn more 
about Pittsburghs favorite animals.
Mfiew nit <Dff Aw.OURYes, there will be another issue of The 
Tartan next week. So dont forget to 
pick it up. If you do forget, you might 
miss our special stories on tans and 
travel.
Good Luck with the rest of your week!
King Arthur: Not just a fairy tale?
Personality Profile: Wendi Amos
IB Award
On Wednesday, April 22, an Invention 
Awareness Seminar will be held from 3 
to 4 pm in the Adamson Wing (Baker 
Hall 136). The purpose of the Seminar 
is to provide information concerning 
U.S. and foreign patent protection, the 
impact of publications on patent 
protection, and the commercialization of 
patents. The Seminar is sponsored by 
Research Corporation, an organization 
which provides universities technology 
transfer services for evaluation, 
patenting and commercialization of 
inventions. Robert Goldsmith, Director 
of Research Corporations Eastern Region Office, will be the Seminar 
spokesperson.
By LISA MCANANY
aifsin Edesuf-en-yhekoYes, Virginia, there really was a King 
Arthur. At least according to Geoffrey Ashe, author of the new book ahk Derbuvkfy uo 
Keng Afshuf, there was. But to tell you who 
Ashe believes to be the original King Arthur 
would be as bad as telling you that the 
butler did it before you saw the movie.
Although Geoffrey Ashe has conducted and 
recounted a meticulous study of early 
English history to search for the roots of Arthurian legend, ahk Derbuvkfy uo Keng 
Afshuf reads like a compelling detective story rather than a drab historical treatise.
Ashe begins by considering the role of one 
man in the creation of Arthurian legend. 
That man is Geoffrey of Monmouth, a 
twelfth century writer who portrayed Arthur 
as a great warrior and king after England's 
secession from the Roman Empire. While 
Geoffrey's writing is of dubious historical 
worth at best, Ashe holds that Geoffrey's 
writings are based in fact and contain 
valuable clues about who Arthur actually 
was.
The next step for Ashe is to recreate the 
fifth century England that was the setting for 
the life of the alleged king. The later 
Roman Empire, plagued by barbarian 
incursions and civil strife, cherished a dream 
of a World-Restorera Rkrsesusuf Ofber. He 
was pictured as an Emperor who would turn 
back the destructive forces and renovate 
Roman civilization, with some sort of 
divine aid, explains the author. Arthur may 
have been such a man, which would explain 
his monumental image in history.
Ashe goes on to examine the works of 
other scholars who searched for King Arthur. 
He concentrates expecially on Welsh 
writings that are rich with Arthurian lore. 
By piecing together what the author 
considers to be other scholars' mistakes in 
interpretation and his own hard-found facts, Ashe proposes a candidate, a fifth century
continued on page 18
By IRENE KAO
aifsin csioomfeskf 
A typical day for Wendi Amos?Well, the 
freshman graphic communications major 
(IM) tries to give the most accurate expla
nation, Its hard to say, the days just run 
into each other. Describing herself as a 
procrastinator and a late-night person, she 
usually stays up until 3 or 4 am doing 
homework. However, her first classes dont 
start until 12:30pm. After classes she then 
goes to lunch, works at ROTC lounge, eats 
dinner if time permits (depending if she has 
any last minute homework to do), and 
attends her evening classes. In the evening, 
she stays up to do her homework and then 
goes to bed. Sounds pretty boring, huh? Not 
if you include all the kxsfi activities in her 
busy and flexible schedule.
Red Cross, Student Advisory Committee 
for IM, ROTC, and a part-time job as a 
cocktail waitress at Chi-Chis are just a few 
of the activities that keep her busy. Lets not 
forget about her being a Carnegie Mellon 
student and a pledge at Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Although she was totally against 
sororities (too cliquey, she thought) in the 
fall, she just recently decided to join Kapn* 
Kappa Gamma because since its hard to 
meet good friends that are girls and that most 
of my friends are guys, I thought it would be 
nice to join a sorority. Also, I wanted to be 
in the Greek system; its shk means of a 
social life on campus. Now, she feels that 
Kappa Kappa Gamma has a lot of diversity 
and really enjoys being with the sisters.
Amos, a Pittsburgher from Pleasant Hills 
(20 miles south of the city), was even more 
active in high school. Amos explains, I feel 
college is faster-paced, but Im at my best 
when Im kept busy. Her involvement in 
high school theater led to her interest as a 
drama major. She applied to Carnegie
photo by Dan Dohan
Mellon as her first choice with a major in 
drama in mind, but due to an operation on 
her tonsils, she could not sing as well as she 
used to. She then realized that her better 
talents were in managing rather than in 
drama.
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

April 21,1987The TartanPage 17
The new Student Govt President speaks
By KARL BARNHART
aifsin Arrersins Nkmr Edesuf 
Last week, Andy Robitshek was elected 
President of the Student Senate by a margin 
of 41 votes over Allen Greenberg. 
Robitshek, a sophomore Electrical Engineering and EPP major, had represented 
CIT on Senate and is also the Businesss Manager for The Tartan. He has also been 
serving on various committees including the 
Senate Funding and Recognition Committee 
and Board of Trustees Alumni Committees. He has represented the student body on the committee that set tuition for the 1988-89 
academic year and served on the Retail Stores 
Committee that got students a discount at the Bookstore.
In an interview last Friday, Robitshek discussed his campaign and his goals.
You promised a lot of things in your campaign. Do you think you 
can get them accomplished?
Im going to try to do everything on my 
platform. Included in his platform were 
improving lecture halls and classrooms, 
getting price cuts at the book and art stores, 
improving relations between students and 
faculty, and fighting financial aid cuts.
In last weeks Student Union, you 
were criticized because you are a 
brother at and the Fundraising Com
mittee Chairman of Theta Xi. Do 
you think this may be a problem?
I dont think this is a problem. If anything 
it may help because I am in contact with 
more people...fundraising for Theta Xi is 
separate from Student Senate.
How do you feel about the 
administrations new point of view on the quality of life issue?
Im happy about it, butit is going to take 
all of our efforts to make sure that they dont 
sit around in committee all year just 
discussing it instead of trying to do 
something
Are there any problems or changes
photo by Dan Dohan
that you would like to make with 
Senate right now?
There are a lot of little things wrong now, but Senate is constantly changing  the 
Rules Committee has come up with lots of 
changes: some I agree with, some I do not. 
One thing I would like to see is Senate 
spending more time actually getting things done rather than worrying about the wording 
of an amendment; more senators should
work on amendments before theyre proposed.
Any other changes that you would like to make?
I would like to see student-faeulty relations 
improved. I want to work with Faculty 
Senate to make those changes. Id also like 
to see more student involvement on the 
Board of Trustees...Id like to get the presidents of other big organizations on 
campus together to discuss the quality of 
student life; thats a big issue that no one has come up with any real solutions for yet
What do you think about the new dorm policy on hard alcohol?
If theyre under age, theyre breaking the 
law, but if people think it [housings policy] 
is wrong, Ill stand up and help them fight 
it I would like to see Scotland Yard serve 
alcohol; Ive worked at Scotland Yard and I 
think it could be a great place for people to get together and socialize.
Anything else you would like to do in the upcoming year?
I would like to get more students involved 
in campus activities  this is not a degree 
factory. Students here have got to do other 
things besides get a degree...I am in favor of 
increasing the activities fee; it has to be incr
eased because of the budget but I see that as 
one way to get more people involved. A lot 
of organizations want to do more, but they 
dont have the money. If we increase the 
activities fee, they can have more money.
Alpha Phi Omega
would like to thank 
Carnegie Mellon
students 
and faculty
for supporting our concessions, McBooth, 
during Carnival 87. Through your help, we 
are giving $3,000 to fight world hunger.
-Another A Phi O Service

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanApril 21, 1987
Cliffe speaks out to all those that will listen
By DAVE LEVY
Fkisufkr Edesuf
Last Monday while you were passing the clock you may have noticed a man talking 
about life. You may not have agreed with 
him, but his name was Cliffe Knechtle and 
he wa> brought here by the Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship to try to get people to 
think about what they believe in.
Cliffe goes around to campuses throughout the year doing his question and answer 
session. He aims for heavy traffic areas on
the campus and then sets himself up, doing a 
short five minute speech and then opening 
up the discussion to those who have stopped 
to listen. This is where it usually gets the 
most interesting, for those stopping to 
listen, because he must defend himself from 
the questions that are always raised on a 
college campus.
Cliffe does a very good job of holding up 
the Christian perspective under these hostile 
conditions and continues his dialogue for 
over an hour in most cases. The Tartan
Wendi Amos, volunteer extraordinaire
continued from Page 16
Her leadership skills are evident in her 
involvement as an active member in Red 
Cross. Amos describes her intial interest in 
Red Cross as an accident, In junior high, 
my cheerleading practice was cancelled, and 
since I had to wait for a friend in Red Cross, 
I decided to go with her to the meeting. 
During the meeting, they asked if anyone 
wanted to attend the Leadership Development 
Center, and jokingly, I raised my hand. I was 
sent as a delegate, and ever since then, Ive 
been pretty active in this organization. Not 
only is she the youngest member of the Red 
Cross board of directors, but she is also 
providing direction for the soon-to-be 
established Youth Program and Activities 
Committee. This committee reviews youth 
programs and makes sure the programs are 
providing top quality services for youths in 
Allegheny County. Her role as a volunteer 
results in more administrative work than 
anything else.
Her feelings toward Red Cross? Volun
teering for the Red Cross is very rewarding. 
Not for the money of course, but now I have 
a good reference for my resume, meet a lot
of interesting people, get to do some public 
speaking and attend national conventions 
across the country. With my credentials and 
experience, after graduate school, I hope to 
reach my goal by working at the 
International Red Cross Committee in 
Switzerland. Also, I strongly encourage 
students to volunteer - its a great chance to 
meet a lot of other high school and college 
students.
In addition to her enthusiasm in her 
activities, Amos thinks Carnegie Mellon is 
a good school. It has a good department in 
business, the work load isnt that much 
different from high school, and the people 
here are great. However, her only complaint 
about this university is that the administra
tion doesnt care about the undergraduates. 
Amos does give credit to Linda Argote, Asso
ciate Professor and Head of Industrial Man
agement. I think Argote takes time to care. 
At the end of the interview, when asked if 
she would want to join any more activities 
she surprisingly said she would, but wasnt 
specific in what she would like to do. Her 
last comments were budget your time well, 
and you can fit in a lot of activities.
caught up to him last Friday after his final 
presentation in the Wherrett room and found 
out that he felt it was a priviledge to be here. He was also pleasantly surprised to find that 
many of the students here took the time to 
think through the issues, as opposed to 
those who just yell and argue with him.The following are a couple of the questions 
asked on campus and his replies.
If God is all powerful why does he 
allow suffering in the world?
I dont honestly know why. But as a 
Christian I think we can approach an answer. 
First, some have tried to solace the problem 
of evil by saying that God doesnt exist. 
Evil and good are simply two aspects of reality that war against one another. But if 
there is no God, there is no Creator to create
the ultimate values of good and evil. And if there is no good and evil, the problem of 
suffering is gone too... The conscience is actually a gift from the creator who is just 
and who defines good and evil. The fact that 
a conscience exists indicates, therefore, that there is a conscience-giver.
Whats wrong with sex?
My response was to ask who invented sex. 
Was it thought up by some of our media 
heroes? No. God invented sex. Its one of his 
most beautiful gifts to us. He is not a 
celestial grinch grumbling at anyone in the 
universe who might be having fun.
God could have arranged for procreation to take the place when a man and a woman 
mixed their earwax at the end of a Q-Tip. But he didnt
ahk Derbuvkfy uo Keng Afshuf shows that 
Arthur and Camelot may have existed
continued from Page 16
king that he believes to be the real King 
Arthur. Ashe's candidate is chosen from a 
list of known early British rulers. He uses 
events which, according to most sources 
available, Arthur actually took part in to 
trace a chronology and a trail of battles that 
make up the life of the legendary King 
Arthur.
Ashe even makes a suggestion for the 
location of Camelot, the castle in which 
Arthur and Guenevere enjoyed one brief and 
shining moment of heavenly peace and popular leadership. The author also gives a 
brief synopsis of the ongoing search for 
conclusive evidence of the life of Arthur.
Ashe's careful sifting of historical sources, 
facts, and nuances can be tedious, but his style is predominantly fluid, enjoyable and
even humorous. The argument presented in 
ahk Derbuvkfy uo Keng Afshuf is not air
tight, but it'll certainly hold some water. If 
not a logically definitive work of history, 
Ashe's book is at least daring, scholarly and a good read.
If youre a King Arthur buff or you need a 
fun way to brush up on fifth century English 
history for your world history course, or you 
just want something a little out of the ordinary to read, pick up a copy of ahk 
Derbuvkfy uo Keng Afshuf. Its one of the 
most entertaining history lessons I've ever had.
The Discovery of King Arthur, by Gkuoofky 
Arhk er publerhkd by Hknfy Huls ind 
yumpiny ind shk pipkfbibk er un rilk ouf 
$8.95.
row
MUSIC and VIDEO
i * DONATO** * NORTH HtLLS * SOUTH WLLS *[*WOWOVIU** OAKLAND *afOUCHAPEL*Cornac oi Wood &4 rj McKnigf*5000 Library RdMonrovfto Mali3712 Forfoaa AvaWatarworXiCHv.f StreetsRoadParuppar LavaP#t CampusStopping Pai**1 *75W7-4444*3*t222tM-7330*7*433781-3t3
With tracks like Wasteland, And The Dance 
Goes On & Stay With Me. The Mission UK. is 
undeniably the most heavy-hitting name in town. 
The Mission LlK.s Gods Own Medicine. Take 
it now and get your dose of rock reality Before its too late.
On Mercury Compact Discs. Cassettes and Records.
TAKE A DOSE OF ROCK REALITY. WITH GODS OWN MEDICINE.
The life you save may be your own.
Why Thousands of Doctors Have Learned 
and Recommend Transcendental Meditation
Transcendental Meditation is 
easy to learn and enjoyable 
to practice. In just a few minutes, 
TM provides a unique state of 
deep rest. This deep rest dissolves 
stress and refreshes the mind 
and body. Six thousand medical 
doctors in the U.S. have learned 
TM. Many recommend it to their 
patients as a way to stay healthy 
and young.
The benefits of TM are docu
mented by more than 300 scien
tific research studies. These 
benefits include:
 Less stress and anxiety
 Clearer thinking, greater 
intelligence and learning abiSty
 More energy and stamina
 More happiness, self-esteem 
and inner peace
 More harmonious relationships
Reduction of Aging
ri 1
Less Illness: 
Reduced Hospitalization
Nothing else is as effective as TM in producing deep relaxation and in combatting stress and tension.
Barry Charles, MD
People practicing the TM tech 
nique Tor 5 years or less had the 
biological age of a person S years 
younger. People practicing TM 
for more than 5 years had the 
biological age of a person 1215 y<sars younger.
TM eliminated the stress that made life a struggle. Problems just seem to solve themselves.
Jane Hotty 
Registered Nurse
Health insurance statistics on 
1800 people practicing the TM 
technique over a 4 year period 
found 55.3% less hospitalization 
and 76% less surgical utilization 
indicating significantly less ill 
ness for people practicing TM.
Free Introductory Lectures on Transcendental Meditation-This Week Only
Monroeville Sheraton South HiB NorthhiU Oakland Holiday InnHoliday Inn By S HiB Vfflge Shp Ctr Holiday Inn Soldiers & Sailors Mem Hall Parkway WestEx 6 off P.A. Tmpke Tues, 7:30 pm Me Knight Rd 5th Ave. Rt 22 A 30 off PrkwyMon, 7:30 pm ________________Wed, 7:30 pm Thurs, 7:30 pm__________Fri, 7:30 pm
Transcendrntal Mediation aad TM art registered icrvioe marks of WPEC-U S., a nonprofit educational organization.
I

---------------------------------------------------

April 21, 1987The TartanPage 19
i
The IM Report
>
A
i
gpnrts in Season 
DartsCommissioner - Paul Pecora 621-9124 
Campus Champion - Theta Xi vs. PiLamA. 
Floor HockeyCommissioners:
Majors - Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minors - Mike Gryzwinski x4651 
playoffs are posted on IM Bulletin Board. 
Playoffs will be finished this week. Championship - Wednesday, April 22 
Minors - 8 pm.
Majors - 9 pm. 
pinochleCommissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Table TennisCommissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Champions:Singles - Daeng Nazier (def. Joao Forcada 3-
0)Doubles - Daeng Nazier/Shuen Zen Liu (def. 
David Nighl/John Ojeda 3-1)
Great job, Stuart.
Call PoolCommissioner - Vic Banko x5403 
Please get matches completed and turn 
results to IM Office.
Weight LiftingCommissioners :
Guy Bennardo x2214 
Keith Gorse x2222Tournament is running now and will finish 
April 24.Please get all lifts completed next week. 
Indoor SoccerCommissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Playoffs have started for all three divisions. 
Championships Schedule:
Wednesday, April 22 - Majors
Championship 9 pm.
Thursday, April 23 - Minors 7 pm.
Intermediate 8 pm.
Triathlon
Commissioners:Mrs. Morosky x2075 Mr. Birdy x2214
This is last call for Triathlon. Over 125 
people have signed up already. Pick up and return entry forms to IM Office or Student 
Affairs Office. Entry fees are $3/individual or$7/team.
Volunteers are needed to help with the 
Triathlon. If you can help, please sign up inIM Office.
Triathlon date is April 25.
Prize: Individual male and female winners 
will receive lunch for two at Vincent's 
Restaurant, 214 N.Craig St.
Medals will be provided by the IM Department.Frisbee
Commissioner - Paul Drake 421-3242 
Schedules are out and all games must be played this week!Softball
Commissioners:
Majors - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediate - Mike Gryzwinski x4651 
Minors - Stuart Fox x4259 
Womens - Vince Carozza x5494 
Get games played as best as you can.Check IM Bulletin Board for playoff schedule.
Track Meet
Commissioner - Paul Pecora 621-9124 
Date of Meet - Saturday, April 18 4 pm atCM Track.
Events:
800 yd. relay 1 mi. run 
100 yd. dash 
yd. run 440 yd. dash 
220 yd. dash 
1 mi. relay 
shotput 
High jump Long jump
Board President for 1987 - 88.
Mike Gryzwinski and Vince Carozza have tied for IM Man of the Year.
All-Sports Trophy Standings:ATO - 1029 
DU-910 
The Squad - 720 Next Meeting
Thursday, August 27, 12:30 pm in the IM Office!
(jjREAT YEAR!!
Thanks to you...it works... 
for ALL OF US
United Why
I
Rob Schlackman has been elected Intramural
Tartan Sports Calendar ...
Remaining Sports Events for 1986 - 87 Spring Season
Men's Track and FieldWashington and Jefferson/BethanyGrove City @ Grove CityApril 22 @ W&J 3 pmApril 25 1 pm
Women's Track and FieldSlippery Rock @SRRobert Morris @ RM
April 21 1 pmApril 25 1 pm
Men's Tennis
Grove City @GCJohn Carroll @ CM
April 22 3 pmApril 25
GETTING THIS WASNT EASY.
WITH FORD CREDIT GETTING THIS...
CDflM YOUR WORLD CLASSrnUIVI Pittsburgh metro ford dej
At your World Class Pittsburgh Metro ^ COLLec 
Ford Dealers, we know getting ^ 
that degree wasnt easy. But when 
it comes to a new car, we can help with 
pre-approved credit from Ford Credit.
If you are working on an advanced 
degree or graduating with a Bachelors 
Degree between October 1,1986 and 
September 30,1987, you may qualify 
for this special college graduate 
purchase program.
If you do, youll receive a $400 cash 
allowance from Ford. Make your best 
deal on any qualifying vehicle and use 
the money toward your down payment,
MAKE IT EASY ON YOURSELF. GET
Allegheny Ford Truck
SOUTHSIDE
Humes Brothers Ford
ASPINWALl
Stuckey-Emes Ford
FOREST HILLS
Babe Charapp Ford I John Coxon & Sor
SCREENPLgi t msgSsghoro
you i $400 check or lease. The money you finance or not. of your credit depends se qualified vehicles
Escort, Escort EXP, ustang, Thunderbird, Taurus. Aerostar, Bronco II,
hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer you must order by June 1,1987, you must take delivery of any ncle by August 31,1987.
HE DETAILS TODAY AT
Donehoo Ford
BELLEVUE
M<Crackin Ford
^Lgim morrN
Talarico Motors
Jim M<Koir>
WEXFO
Bob Smith Ford
drGRmT GIriisi
Woltz A Wind Ford
HEIDELBERG
drewR
._l

---------------------------------------------------

rTartan Sports
As yUP InvesiseunilTracksters Give Superb Showing
By DON GAMBLE
aifsin cpufsr Edesuf
The Tartan Mens and Women's Track and 
Field Teams competed Saturday in the 
California University of Pennsylvania 
Invitational Tournament No team points 
were kept, but several Tartans had 
impressive showings at the meet, with equal strength in both the track and field events.
In the Mens 10km competition, Tartan Pat 
Noll clinched first with a time of 33:27, 
followed by Paul Mayer, who took third 
with 34:16. Kevin Helm took 6th with a 
time of 34:58. Keith Stopen (15:27.1) took 
first for Carnegie Mellon in the 5km run, 
while teammate Dave Supp (15:48.9) took 4th in the event. Donna Nyzio took 4th in 
the Womens 5km with a time of 24:01.4. 
Pat Fall took 6th place in the Women's 3km 
with a time of 12:47.2.
In the 1500 m., the Women's team placed 
3rd, 6th, and 7th with winning times by 
Fransesca Cranell (5:13.01), Sandy Payne 
(5:56.4), and Pat Fail (5:59.8), respectively. 
The Men's 1500 saw only one Tartan place, 
by Scott Foerst with a time of 4:09.In the 800m race, Fransesca Cranell took 
7th place with a time of 2:36.9, followed by 
Elizabeth Killmayer with an 8th place time 
of 2:43.8. Freshman Alan Loveless took 4th 
in the Men's 200m race with a time of 22.3 
seconds.
The Tartans did well in the hurdle
Pefiskr Anilyrer
competitions also. In the 110m High 
Hurdles, Damien McKnight captured third 
place with a time of 15.7 s for the men, 
followed in fourth by William Corcoran, 
who ran the distance in 16.1 s. In the 400m 
Intermediate Hurdles, Junior Leslie Williams placed fifth for the women with 1:14.9, 
while Damien McKnight took third for the 
men with 55.7 seconds.
An equally impressive showing was made 
by the teams in the field events. Lloyd 
Troy's javelin throw of 52.09m put him in 
third place for that event, followed closely 
by Jim Kelly in 5th with 45.27m. Chirs 
Luckett took third for the Tartans in the high 
jump, with a jump of 6'2. Donna Nyzio 
placed 5th in the Women's shotput with a 
shot Of 33'25". In the triple jump, Lesans 
Heards took 6th for the women with a total 
of 28'5".As the season winds down for the 
tracksters, several important meets are to be 
held within the next two weeks. Both teams 
have two meets remaining before going to 
the PAC finals at Hiram on May 2. The 
women's team will face off against Slippery 
Rock at The Rock today at 1 pm, and away 
against Robert Morris at 1 pm Saturday. The 
men's team will compete in a tri-meet tomorrow against Washington and Jefferson 
and Bethany at Washington and Jefferson, 
and then on to Grove City to defeat the 
Wolverines on Saturday.
Sis ta
The Men's Rugby Teams finished their season with an A Team Win and a 
B Team loss to Penn State/Altoona. The A Team finishes with a 1-3 
record, while the B Team winds up 2-2. Despite the unimpresive record, 
the game was still chosen as Michelob's "Game of the Week". Teammate 
Glen Schuster summed up the team's feeling about the season." We hope 
that Heineken sponsors the game next year."
Are Bucs Off to 
Another Bad
Season, or
IM Department and 
Student Affairs 
Sponsor First-Ever 
TriathlonPick Up?
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
aifsin yunsfebuseng Edesuf 
This weekend was an important one for the 
Pittsburgh Pirates. They were riding the crest of a mini-winning streak, the product 
of a two game sweep of a series in Chicago. 
They were getting pitching and hitting, in 
the right combinations at the same time, a 
rare commodity in recent years for Pittsburgh.
But the Pirates were doing more than 
playing ball games. They were tesing 
themselves and each other, trying to find 
how good this team, the most enigmatic 
club in the National League, was going to be this year.
So far, the players seemed pleased with the preliminary verdict. And their attitudes 
reflected this. First baseman Sid Bream noted 
"We're having fun...it has to do with 
winning." Rich Reuschel, the victor in a 
brilliantly-pitched 3-1 10-inning win 
Wednesday, echoed a similar sentiment 
"There's a different feeling on the club right now."
But that feeling might have changed this 
weekend. Although most people will 
remember Saturday's game for Mike 
Schmidts dramatic 500th home run, the 
significance for the Pirates runs deeper.
They were returning home to face the 
Phillies, expected to challenge the Mets for
Waiting to
the division lead with the addition of catcher Lance Parrish. But Parrish and the woebegone Phils started off 1-8, the worst 
for the team since 1938. If there was ever a 
team ripe to be taken, it was Philadelphia.
But Philadephia took the first two games 
from the Phillies, and it was the bullpen that 
let them down. Manager Jim Leyland has 
been trying to show confidence in his young 
pitching staff, but that backfired on Friday 
night when Barry Jones gave up 4 runs in 
the top of the tenth to preciptitate a 6-2 loss.
The losses put the Bucs two games under 
.500. The important thing is for this not to be the slide-trigger, the losing streak that 
cause the team to get in the elevator and say 
"Sixth place, please." Manager Jim Leyland 
has a solid-enough team with enough depth 
to prevent long losing streaks that wreak 
havoc on a team's confidence.
But with the Mets coming to town, a team 
that also lost two weekend games, it's 
important for the Pirates to put on their best 
face.Buc Notes: The Pirates conclude their 
homestand with the Mets tonight and 
tommorow night both 7:05 starts. Bob 
Ojeda (1-2) faces Bob Kipper (1-1) and Ron 
Darling (1-0) goes up against Bob Patterson 
(1-2). If you go, take a specially marked 
Coke can and get a $4 reserved seat for $2.
Pittsburgh-Camegie Mellon will hold its 
first-ever triathlon this Saturday, April 25, 
beginning at 9 am at the University 
swimmimng pool in Skibo Gymnasium.
The event sponsored by the health enhancement division of Student Affairs and 
the Intramural Athletic Department, is open 
to all Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, 
staff, and their immediate families. The 
triathlon will consist of a 400-yd swim, a 10- 
mile bicycle ride, and a 3.1- mile run.
"The triathlon is part of a university-wide 
push towards health awareness," said former 
swimming coach Donna Morosky, who was 
appointed Director of Health Enhancement 
last October. "The triathlon, which we feel 
will become an annual intramural event on 
campus, promotes physical fitness and
mental toughness, integral aspects of our 
awareness program."Awrds will be given for first-, secondand 
third-place finishers in the solo male and 
female divisions as well as in the male, j 
female, and coed team competitions.
Once participants complete the 400-yd swim, they will get their bicycles at the I 
comer of Tech and Margaret Morrison I 
Streets outside the Gymnasium. The 10-mile jl 
bicycle course will wind through Schenley | 
Park and the Carnegie Mellon campus and 
end in the Fine Arts building parking lot at ; 
the comer of Tech and Margaret Morrison, 
The 3.1 mile runin in the Fine Arts parking i 
lot and end on the front lawn of Skibo Hall. I
For more details on the triathlon, see this j 
week's IM Report on page 19.
INSIDE. . .
Last IM Report Remaining Tartan Sports
