3The Cartiere STartau,
Vol. 35 No. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941
Snow Queen Candidates are:
Standing, from left to right: Isabelle Gup, Gamma Phi Sigma;
Peggy Stuchell, Kappa Phi Delta; Dorothy OBrien, Beta Tau Lambda; 
Marisse Forbes, Beta Pi.
Sitting, from left to right: Virginia Bennett, Alpha Theta Sigma; 
Lucille Wissolik, Citcom Clan; Peggy Young, Alpha Kappa Psi; Anasta
sia Katsilas, Gamma Gamma Gamma.
The IgBoo Melts!
Bobby ByrneV oourl .rombyrnes3 
And Queen Featured5 at J. P.
Bobby Byrne and his orchestra, 
featuring Jimmy Palmer, who will 
play for the Junior Prom this Fri
day at Hotel Schenley from 10 to 
2, have had one of the quickest 
rises to fame of any of the newer 
big-name bands. In September, 
1939, Bobby Byrne left Jimmy 
Dorseys band, in which he had 
been the featured trombonist, and 
in September, 1940, ended a suc
cessful seventeen-week engage
ment at the Glen Island Casino 
which established him among the 
nations top-ranking bands.
Bobby organized his band in six 
weeks after leaving Dorsey, play
ed at Brooklyns Roseland and 
broadcast over the Mutual net
work. He was immediately sign
ed to make Decca records, and 
later was selected for the summer 
engagement at Glen Island Casino 
which has started many famous 
bands on their way, including the 
top-notchers, Glen Miller, and 
Glen Gray.
Bobby, only twenty-two, is one 
of the very rare musicians who 
possess the remarkable faculty of 
absolute pitch. He can spot dis
cord, where, to the average ear, 
none seems to exist. Bobby has 
studied music all his life, and has 
taken lessons on the flute, piccolo, 
drums, harp, trombone, piano, and 
cello. At the age of seven he had 
already decided on the trombone 
as his career.
Bobby stepped into Tommy DorVol.3l5N1 ol CARN E
N1CAR1EGI ST1R 
U.OFH NAELHEHEY
The Pittsburgh Savoyards will 
present as their next operetta, 
The Sorcerer, tomorrow and 
Thursday at the Twentieth Cen
tury Club. Of special interest to 
Carnegie is the appearance of 
former Tech students, Emerick 
Simboli and Margaret McClelland 
Morrow,. as principals; and Mary 
Cosentino, former special in the 
Music Department under Miss Sea
men, Norman Rose, night school 
drama, and Margaret Dent, in the 
chorus.
Staging and lighting play a large 
part in the production of the oper
etta, as much of the action depends 
upon them. Black light will be 
used for the incantation scene. 
Ultra-violet light, sometimes call
ed black light, has been noted to 
cause a peculiar fluorescence to 
particular types of paints and 
greases. This will be the first 
time that it has been used for 
stage effects in Pittsburgh.
Tickets on campus may be had 
from Connie Lewis, 42, Andrew 
Potter, 42, and Mr. John Rodspinner, Coal Research. Student 
tickets at 50c are available for 
qualified undergraduate college 
students.
Show flgueen 
Election Toilay
Today is the day that all Car
negie students will go to the polls 
to select the Snow Queen, who will 
reign over the Junior Prom this 
Friday at the Hotel Schenley. The 
election will be held in all three 
colleges from 11:30 to 1:30. An 
athletic card must be presented 
to vote.
The queen will be known to 
only three members of the election 
committee and her name will not 
be revealed until intermisison.
,TFPFBFTFDR 4AGH 
491nPHI w1GH
Beginning with the present se
mester, a basic change in the eli
gibility code is going into effect. 
Formerly, to maintain an eligibil
ity status, a student was required 
to carry a schedule of not less 
than forty-five units and to have 
obtained a minimum factor of 1.25 
during the preceding semester.
Under the new system, however, 
a student is only required to carry 
thirty-six units, but must have 
maintained an average factor of 
not less than, 1.25 for the preced
ing two semesters. This change 
was made because a student who 
participated in an activity one se
mester could fail in his studies dur
ing that semester, but by getting 
a 1.25 factor the succeeding se
mester, would be eligible for his 
activity the following year. Ob
viously such a practice defeated 
the fundamental aim of the school 
by subordinating studies to extra-curricular activities. Under 
the present system a student must 
consistently maintain an average 
factor of 1.25.
The above requirements pertain 
to students who wish to enter only 
one extra-curricular activity. Stu
dents who wish to enter more than 
one activity must have an average 
factor of 1.5 based as above on 
a schedule of not less than thirtysix units per semester for the two 
preceding semesters.
During the first; semester, Fresh
man are only required to carry a 
schedule of thirty-six units, but 
to be eligible ior the second se
mester, they must have obtained 
the required factor, 1.25 or 1.5 
depending on the number of activ
ities to be entered, and must con
tinue to carry a minimum sched
ule of thirty-six units.
As before, scholastic deficien
cies may be removed in summer 
school. Any courses taken dur
ing the summer session may be 
used to raise the factor, but can
not be used to satisfy the thirtysix units per semester require
ment.
Teeh Stage World Premiere
By Otto Krenn
Premiere! Yes, a World Pre
miere at Tech, the first presenta
tion of Dawn in Lyonesse, written-directed by Mr. Thomas Job 
of the Drama Department. Men
tioned in the New York Times, 
this is the first premiere to be held 
in the Little Theater since the pro
duction of Ed Hunts No More 
Marriages early last year, and 
the second play written by Mr. 
Job to be produced this season.
It is a contemporary play of 
three acts and seven scenes, the 
action occurring just before the 
present war. The locale is Tintagel, Cornwall, England, the scene 
of the Tristram and Iseult legend, 
a district about which few plays 
are written, though it is one of the 
most romantic in England. The 
Cornish people are not truly Eng
lish, but are descended from the 
earliest inhabitants of England 
whose origin extends beyond re
corded history. The plot follows 
the love story of a little servant 
girl in a hotel in the town of 
Tmtagel. The original part of the 
play is written to show how the 
story of Tristram and Iseult in
fluences the life and fate of the 
girl, Ellen Pascoe.
Mr. Job has endeavored to give 
an absolutely realistic representa
tion magnified to produce the 
beauty of the old romance of the 
Tristram and Iseult story. This
. . . GIoSAT UoO 
adherance to the Tristram theme 
makes the moving story even more 
moving, as does its close associa
tion to the locale, which takes us 
from tea shops, to swank hotels, 
to ancient rock formations above 
the sea, to fishermens cottages on 
the moors. In every scene the sea 
is suggested, either being includ
ed in the view or represented by 
the intermittant flashes from a 
lighthouse. Incidental. Wagnerian 
music accompanies certain scenes.
The fact that Dawn in LyonFHAlT LNH3R3o5T YNN,
Faculty, Students Join 
In Religions Discussions
.9FEG Qnnu1T ,ea91IFI 
dHHi tHPFnI NunG1R
See N13.oP3AH CARN EB
Religious Emphasis "Week begins again at Carnegie tliis Sun
day at 4 oclock when the Carnegie Methodist Association will 
meet in the Student Union to hear a guest speaker
Although the Week actually begins on Sunday, the part of 
the program which will be of most interest to Tech students will 
take place next Tuesday. At this time, in a Chapel program, we 
will have an opportunity to hear a representative from the Jewish,
the Catholic and the ProtestantMaji
esse is a new play provides the 
Drama Department with unusual 
opportunities for self-expression. 
The settings, including the ancient 
rock formations, are all of orig
inal design under the supervision 
of Mr. Weninger. Since the show 
is styled to create a definite mood, 
the lighting, being supervised by 
Mr. Kimberly, assumes excep
tional importance.
The opening date and run of 
the play will be released next 
week.
The cast is as follows: Mrs. 
Trevetha, Doris Bloomberg and 
Alice Morgan; Ellen Pascoe, 
Helene Jafiin and Rose Marie El
lis; Derek Tregonny, Marvin Einhorn and Wm. Eythe; Susan Pengilly, Miriam Amdur and Molly 
van Ameringan; Miss Penrose. 
Jenny Lou Law and Eleanor 
Weal; Mrs. Bond, Dorothy ODell 
and Ruth Orr; Miss Clark, Jean 
Layton and Judith Wirkman; Mr. 
Bugstocke, Richard Rose and Wal
ter Reid; Mr. Derby, Lester Stan
ford and Roland Kraus; Mr. Har
ris, Milton Howarth and John 
Blankenchip; Professor, Ed Hunt 
and Jerry Kurtz; Dr. Gregory, 
Henry Barnard and Samuel Liff; 
Mrs. Tregonny, Shirley Brown 
and Septa Sanderson; Grand
mother, Eleanor Collins and Esther 
Jane Coryell; Rectoi*, Richard 
Aiken and Carl Betz; Kitchen Boy, 
Robert Challener and Bill Thunhurst.
. . . DAPoH1 4B 4AlR
Industry Contact 
Men Interview 
Seniors for Jobs
Schedule of this weeks senior 
interviews, to be arranged in the 
Employment Bureau, Room 155, 
Administration Hall, is as follows: 
Tuesday, February 4
Chicago Pneumatic Tool Com
pany; mech. engineers. 
Wednesday, February 5
Dravo Corporation; all engi
neers.
Buffalo Forge; mech. engineers. 
Thursday, February G
U. S.. Steel; all engineers. 
General Electric; all engineers. 
Both ot the above companies 
will have representatives here on 
Friday, also.
Friday, February 7
Carbide and Carbon; all engi
neers.
Bendix Aviation; mech. and 
electrical .engineers.
Firestone; all engineers. 
Companies interested in cor
responding with seniors concern
ing: employment are listed below: 
Company Interested in:Hamilton StandardPropellers..................mech., aero., olcc.,mgt.Western Union Telegraph Co..................olec.Standard Oil Oo...........mech., cliem.Charles P. Cochrane Co.. mech., chem. Celanosc Corporationof America .............chem., chemistsDuPont Film Manufacturing Co.............chem.Pratt and Whitney AirCraft ......................mech., aero., mgt.Bogue Electric. Co.......elec.Keasbey and MathisonCo.............................chem. eng., chemists, mech.Stanolind Oil and GasCo.............................all eng.  seniorand juniorEastjnan Kodak Co......chem., elec.,mcch., chemists Aeroproducts Division..all engineers Revere Copper andBrass, Inc..................chem., mech., , 9 met., mgt.York Ice MachineryCorp..........................mcch.Chain Belt Co. ............mech., mgt., met.The Do Vilbiss Co......mgt.|h,6U_.On Co...............mcch., chem.The B. F. Goodrich Co.. all engineers Cptler-Hammer, Inc. .. elec.Atlantic Refining Co.... chemists, chem., ~ . elec.The Babcock and Wil-n cox Co......................mech., elec.,T. , ,  civicsImperial Paper and..Color Corp................mech.Kingsport Press, Inc__printingThe Hoover Co............mech., elec., mgt.Irico Products Corp.... met., elec., mcch. The Penn Mutual LifeInsurance Co............mathematical' abilityConsolidated Edison Co. of New York.... mech., elec., chem.
Application Blanks AvailableAtlantic Refining Company Babcock and Wilcox Company Celanese Corporation Chrysler Corporation . Detroit Edison Company Dravo Corporation Elgin National Watch Company General Electric Company Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company Imperial Paper and Color Corporation Hamilton Standard Propellers Keasbey and Mattison Company Revere Copper and Brass Incorporated
Scotch & Soda 
Calls Dancers
At last! That well-known op
portunity is knocking at your 
door. The Scotch and Soda Clubs 
revue Heres to You has sent out 
its first call for all chorus and 
specialty dancers. The time is 
tomorrow at 4:30, and this Sat
urday, at 11:30. The place is 
Thistle Hall. Anyone interested 
in this show, whether its in the 
line or in some specialty, be sure 
to come at that time.
sAE Sawders 
Speaks Today
Major James Sawders 17, emi
nent traveler and lecturer, and 
native Pittsburgher, will speak to
day at 11:30 in the Theater, Col
lege of Fine Arts. His topic "The 
Pan-American Highway will be 
illustrated' by photographs which 
he took himself.
Major Sawders has assembled 
the material for this lecture from 
his observations and experiences 
in his travels from the Alaskan 
border south through Canada, the 
United States, Mexico, Central 
and South Americathe route ol! 
the proposed highway.
Graduated from Carnegie in 
.19.17, Major Sawders served in the 
chemical warfare service In the 
first World War. Later, as a min
ing engineer in South America, ho 
traveled much. Consequently ho 
is well acquainted with that con
tinent. At the present time his 
headquarters is in Nutley, N. J., 
although lie still regards Pitts
burgh as his home.
Today marks Major Sawders 
fourth appearance at Carnegie as 
a lecturer. On previous occasions 
here he presented pictorial talks 
on Finland, Brazil, and Scandanavla. I-Ic also lectures annually 
at the local University Club and 
in the Carnegie lecture series.
The subject of today's lecture is 
especially pertinent at this time, 
as interest in Latin America is 
rising throughout this country in 
connection with the European sit
uation. It should be understood 
that the lecture is not purely pic
torial; Major Sawders interprets 
his pictures in the light of eco
nomics, politics, and history.
Men to Organize 
Discussion Group
International relations will be 
discussed in a new organization to 
be formed for men. It will be 
conducted on the same basis as 
the now-existing womens club. 
There will be no attempt to settle 
international problems or to at
tract name speakers. It will be 
the purpose of the club to promote 
understanding by means of a gen
eral round table where everyone 
will have an opportunity to state 
his views.
The Womens International Re
lations Club, which was organized 
six years ago, is affiliated with the 
Carnegie Endowment for Interna
tional Peace, which provides books 
and mimeographed material pe
riodically for the club.
All men who are interested are 
invited to attend a meeting in the 
office of Mr. Stuart W. Chapman 
in Industries 127-D at 4:30 this 
Thursday.
faiths. Rabbi Nathan A. Perilman 
from the Emanu-El Congregation 
of New York City will be the Jew
ish speaker. He is, incidentally, 
the assistant to Dr. Goldenson, 
formerly of the Beth Shalom Tem
ple in Pittsburgh. Representing 
the Catholic faith will be Dr. Rob
ert Connery from Catholic Uni
versity in the Nations Capital; he 
is also the director of the Commis
sion on American Citizenship of 
the Catholic University of Amer
ica. Dr. Everett R. Clinchy, Pres
ident of the National Conference 
of Christians and Jews, will bo the 
Protestant speaker.
On Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 
in the Union these same men will 
conduct a round-table discussion 
and forum on the subjects they 
talked about in Chapel. Here all 
students will have a chance to 
hear any questions they may aflk, 
concerning religion's part in the 
problems of the world, discussed 
and answered.
Throughout the week religious 
leaders 'from the Pittsburgh Dis
trict will speak informally to the 
various fraternities and the mens 
and womens dormitories. The 
Womens Y-Cabinet and the Cit
com Clan will also have guest 
speakers. The fraternity and dor
mitory meetings will take place 
after dinner and at this time the 
speakers will discuss and help 
solve group and personal problems 
as related to religion.
Among those speaking to frater
nity and dorm groups will be 
Father Rock, Dr. Freehof and Dr. 
Orr, all of whom are familiar to 
many Tech students.
Dr. Ii. L. Lang, Head of the 
General Science Department in 
Margaret Morrison, is Chairman 
of the weeks activities. He wlil 
be helped by Dr. Warden, Dean 
of Men; Prof. Lawler, of the Eng
lish Department; Miss Hays, of 
Margaret Morrison, and students 
from the Mens and Womens YCabinets; Jim Wills, DeForest 
Trautman, Bill Newman and Clara 
May Mackey.
Religious Emphasis Week was 
started three years ago by the Na
tional Council of Churches. The 
program was such a success that 
many of the colleges throughout 
the country decided to put on in
dividual programs  among these 
was Tech. The purpose of the 
Week is to help college students 
correlate their religion with their 
campus life and problems.
Tartan Staff
There will be a meeting today, 
at 11:30 in the Tartan Office, of 
the entire stafffreshmen through 
seniors. It is very important that 
everyone be there.
Religious Emphasis Program
DateTimePlaceEvent
Sunday, Feb. 9.........., 4:00 P.M.Carnegie UnionTech Methodist Club
Monday, Feb. 10..... 8:00 P.M.Scobell HallMens Dorm Meeting
Tuesday, Feb. 11___.11:30 A.M.Arts TheaterChapelThree noted 
guest speakers
4:30 P. M.Carnegie UnionDiscussion & Forum 
chapel speakers
Wednesday, Feb. 12.. 4:00 P.M.Carnegie UnionYWCA meeting, 
guest speaker
6:00 P. M.Carnegie InnDinner meeting, 
speaker; all wo
mens dorms except 
Mellon and -Forbes
Thursday, Feb. 13.... 3:30 P.M.Carnegie UnionMellon Hall, Forbes 
Hall, YWCA frosh 
meeting
Friday, Feb. 14......... 4:30 P.M.Carnegie UnionCitcom Clan meet
ing, guest speaker

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941
What Does Religion 
Have to Offer?
Religious Emphasis Week comes to Tech this year at a time 
when almost the entire world is witnessing an upsurge of religious 
sentiment, and at a time when almost all churches are reporting an 
increasing attendance and religious interest. Thinking college 
students must determine whether this renewed religious feeling 
represents an unthinking attempt to find reassurance in a blind 
faith or whether it is founded on the possibility and sincere desire 
for human betterment. Educated people must approach religion 
as they approach everything. They must have good, well-thoughtout reasons for their beliefs and actions.
This naturally brings us to the question, What does religion 
have to offer? Ought we to be satisfied with religion for re
ligions sake alone, or ought we to view religion from a point of 
view of the, good it can do for us as individuals and as members 
of a world community? The character of the renewed interest in 
religion is perhaps a sufficient answer to those questions.
What is being emphasized today is something to which many 
people have paid lip-service for generations but have unfortunate
ly not taken seriously enough. It is to the broad ethical principles 
which the great religious thinkers have expounded that we must 
turn in evaluating the role that present-day religion must play. 
These great principles of righteousness have become, to many of 
us, simply homey phrases which we know and recognize to be valu
able guides for conduct but which have appeared so commonplace 
that we lmve never considered whether we were actually living up 
to them or not.Love thy neighbor is a phrase that has perhaps been overpopularized, but it requires but one look at the world arolmd us to 
see that those who take that phrase seriously are few indeed. If 
we take the teachings of the great religious leaders seriouslyif 
we remain true to the principles of brotherly love and equality 
and democracywe will perhaps be able to effect the turningpoint in mans progress from savagery.
The people of Germany lost faith in those great democratic 
ideals with which present-day religion is synonomous, not because 
they were beset by a devil, but because those principles did not 
seem to work out for them in practice. They found that while 
democracy and equality were being preached, there existed pov
erty on the one hand and great riches on the other; they found 
that when a large part of the population was in misery through 
unemployment, there was no real attempt ty their fellow country
men to help them solve their problems. They found that the 
world was callous and indifferent to them as individuals; they 
found that in what should have been honest democracy, there was 
discrimination ; and where there should have been brotherly love, 
there was the slyness and cruelty that inevitably comes with mans 
exploitation of man. Their disillusionment was bitter, and it was 
through their disillusionment that they gave themselves up to a 
fate even worse than the state of things which had brought about 
that disillusionment.
Our job in America and in all free countries is to make such a 
reaction impossible. To do that it is not sufficient to repeat the 
principles of righteous living in a parrot fashion. We must apply 
these principles. We must make the teachings of the great re
ligious thinkers live, not in words but in deeds; we must model 
our society upon these teachings. We must create brotherly love 
between man and man. We must do away with discrimination 
against race or color or creed. We must close the abyss that 
separates the rich from the poor and the fortunate from the un
fortunate. We must substitute for the rule of money and great 
power the rule of wisdom. We must create order and plan where 
now there is chaos. In other words, we must make democracy 
work.
That is our task. It may not resemble the formal religion 
with which many of us have been brought up, but without the 
great principles of religion this task can perhaps never be ac
complished. We must do it or wo will inevitably travel the road 
that other nations who have failed in doing it are now traveling. 
It is to this practical application of religious principles that we at 
Tech must dedicate ourselves, not only for the duration of Relig
ious Emphasis Week but for every day and every hour and every 
minute of our lives.
wC3l3olT NQCPNTTN1 3l .IN CAlNT ou .IN GeLGea APN .IoTN ou .IN 
SNSONPT ou .IN T.Auud 3l .IN iAlNt ou .IN N13.oP3AH ioH5Slt.INl APN .IoTN 
ou .IN s13.oPB GINl APN lo.t .o be iolT.P5N1 AT lNiNTTAP3Hr .IN oC3l3olT 
ou N3.INP .IN T.51Nl. Oo1r oP .IN uAi5H.rB
(fravwecjic (ITartau
Cnritcglc Institute of 'fcclinnloRy, Sohcnloy Inrk, I'lllslnirirh, Ia.
PIIONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
PHONE SCIIENLEY 1B57
RBPnnnKNTBo ron Vol.3Vo5 o3N1Cl.A.V3 RE After Office HOUIS Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief .... jAckson 4257College Publishers Representative __
420 mdi.oh Avs. new York. n.y. Bus1,ilss Manager.. SChcnley 31HcnicAoo  R3Gl3V  Los Ancles  5AM ISoVG.TG3 AdvertisingManager.. HAzel 3898
Entered as sccond-cluss matter in the Pittsburgh Post oniec under the Act of 
March 3, 1870
rnbll.hoa weekly durlns school jor, o*cci.l holidays nnd c*i.mlnnllo,i periods. 
________________________ Subscription Price $1.00 per year.
s13.oP:3l:VH33iu ...................................................................4NolAP1 gIA.f,3l
m5T3lNTT hAlARNP......................................................................DNPONP. LN3iI
hAlAR3lR s13.oP.........................................................................sHNAloP wTIPr
aNbT s13.oP...............................................................................BBB gpH;,3l
yNA.5PN s13.oP.................................................................................BBBB LoT.
gCoP.T s13.oP..............................................................................Y3HH3AS yHor1
e1;NP.3T3lR hAlARNP.........................................................DAPPr eOPASo;3.f
V3Pi5HA.3ol hAlARNP.....................................................................cP;3lR KAPnNH
g.Anu FIo.oRPACINP.....................................................................s3 LHmiIONPRNP
gCoP.T FIo.oRPACINP..................................................................BBB Nli3H
VoCr s13.oPT..........s1r.IN yAPOSAlt L5.I mPo13N
gNlAPr.................................................................................BBBBB VINGT,r
BUSINESS STAFF: Sylvan Rosenfield, Dee Andella, Henry Rosenblum, Lionel Perrine, John Woodslde, Robert Detwiler, William R. 
Lloyd, Ted Burtis, Edward Fireman, Shirley Bernstein, David 
Moyer, Jack Fishkin, Ted Nierenberg.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Phyllis Buchman, Paul Guinther, Gilbert Kivenson, William Mercier, Saul Moses, George Patrick, Walter Stull, 
Joanne Tishlarich, Barbara Kramer, Mercedes Cunningham. 
SPORT STAFF: George Tondorf, Joe Thomas, Bob Cowie, Don Wat
kins, Jim Geist.
REPORTERS: Margaret Carver, Leonard Chotiner, Patricia Elman
Walter Haller, Jeanne King, Eva Rubban, Wallace Sadnusltas 
Melvyn Snyder, Margaret Goodman, Otto Krenn, Maita Sivitz 
Helena Aronson, Walter Darby, Joseph Dickson, Charles Goelirlng! 
Thalia Harmony, Louise Saul, Dan Ossman, Don Byrum.
AnH Ar D9H BARI
. . . U3S g3olT
Straightforward . . . frank . . . 
best describes Jim . . . tells his 
ideas . . . with deliberate man
ner . . . conscientious feeling
. . . has decided opinions . . .
as to how school should be run
. . . trys to fulfill his ideals on 
Student Council ... as Indepen
dent Leader . . . thinks Techites 
lack cooperativeness ... as well 
as school spirit . . . admires in
telligent people . . . has high 
humor rating . . . enjoys mak
ing people laugh . . . likes sports 
. . . especially ping-pong . . .
has earned a C in track . . .
couldnt be very lazy ... as he 
frequently takes long walks . . . 
hates to be kept waiting . . . 
can win almost any argument . . . 
and often depends on it . . .to 
get around a tight spot . . .
Has attained Tau Beta Pi and 
Phi Kappa Phi . . . yet has time 
for Claymore Clan, Dorm Coun
cil, Intramural Board, vice-pres
idency of Interhonorary Council 
... as senior Engineering presi
dent . . . knows many people 
whose names he forgets . . .
graduating in Civil Department 
. . . where he is the butt . . .
of friendly jests . . . exposing tall 
tales . . . which he must defend 
. . . Jim lives in Scobell . . .
hails from Martinsburg, West Vir
ginia . . . hibernated last sum
mer in surveying camp . . . thinks 
it will be fun ... to work . . .
for himself . . . does not think
that he will enjoy the rewards 
... as much ... as seeking 
them . . . detests grinds . . . 
thinks they are boring individ
uals . . . favorite activity . . . 
is catching up . . . on lost sleep 
... in classes . . .
Fulfills the tall, dark quota
tion ... is easily recognized by 
the fact . . . that he always needs
:unFAE SEAeggg
Vol.3l5N1 uPoS CARN M 
seys position in Jimmy Dorseys 
band, and it was his success in that 
position that made him wish for 
a band of his own. He had learn
ed much in the field of music from 
both his mother and his father,
... a shave . . . but just never 
. . . has the time . . . has an 
insatiable curiosity . . . which 
he finds hard to satisfy . . . likes 
Pittsburgh . . . despite its smoke 
and fog . . . thinks its main prob
lem ... is lack of adequate 
transportation facilities . . . en
joyed himself immensely . . . on 
recent trip to Chicago . . . likes 
dancing . . . when accompanied 
by sweet music . . . voted for 
Kay Kyser in recent orchestra 
contest . . . maybe because they 
both have southern accents . . . 
tho Jim hates to hear people talk 
about his . . .
Right now hes very enthusiastic 
. . . about the Interhonorary
dance . . . next week . . . be
cause its for both day and night 
school . . . thinks there should 
be more of - these affairs . . .
Off JbQ Cuff
Looks like the Foley-Asten duet 
is a thing of the Dim Past.
Flash! Don Ament has rolled 
up his sleeves and waded into 
the competition surrounding Helen 
Hershey. Oh well, the more the 
merrier, we always say.
Sammy Wigon and Mary Joe 
Hare are telling everyone that 
this is the real thing. It looks 
like that from here!
Add interesting facts: Janie
Brooke must have some reason for 
taking that course in Personnel 
Management, but we wouldnt 
know what it is. Would we?
Judy Clarke and Mary Pollis 
admit that they are losing their 
appetites and their interest in 
life . . . But the object of their 
affections remains a deep, dark 
secret.
They make the nicest couple 
department: Martha Sekey and 
Ted Burtis in Skibo. Ditto Lucille 
Orr and Nelson Crooks, anywhere.
This is for those two or three 
 of you who havent already heard:
GARDENIAS 
ORCHIDS, ROSES,
y PoS
GIDHS FLOHISTS
yoP Wo5P U5l3oP FPoS 
FORBES NEAR ATWOOD
MU. 1300
.fS,dmh.,mN
form,b.
3
 MONTHS < 4 pp 
FOE WK
First Rental Applies in 
Purchase
ROYAL CORONA
UNDERWOOD REMINGTON
.fS,dmh.,mN
for
N;y,
NEW PORTABLES
ALL MAKES 
pp per 
weekcF
oAED SFDD .RaHUEFDHE 4Aea1nR
614 LIBERTY AVENUE_____________________________ATlantic 8320
. . . moOOr mrPlN 
who was head oi the Music De
partment in Cass Technical high 
school. He married Patricia Far
rell last year after a two-date 
courtship, during which he acquir
ed a great liking for cheese sand
wiches.
Vocalist with Bobby Byrne is 
Jimmy Palmer, who won the Paul 
Whiteman Youth of America con
test. He has sung with A1 Kavelin,
Informal Dancing
Begins
Saturday, Oct. 5 th
BILLY HINDS
and his
ORCHESTRA
*1 PER PERSON IHCUIiDIHG 
i MIWIGHT SUPPER
UoO VH3l3i cl;3.NT 
GNiI g.51Nl.T
College students who will be 
seeking jobs after graduation are 
invited to attend sessions of the 
Pittsburgh Man-Marketing Clinic 
held from 7:30 to 9:30 every Tues
day night on the fifth floor at 526 
Penn Avenue.
Sponsored by a committee of 
executives from industrial firms, 
department stores, advertising 
agencies, newspapers and sales 
companies, the clinic shows peo
ple how to get the positions they 
want. This is accomplished 
through round table discussion of 
individual cases.
Sessions are free and open to 
the public.
Dick Stabile, and Reggie Childs, 
all of whom are well known to 
Carnegie students.
Tickets for the dance are $3.50 
and can be bought from many up
perclassmen, as well as class of
ficers and Delta Skull members.
FLOWERS 
For the
P.
yPoS
DAVE
HILL'S
Floral Shop
6th and Wylie Ave.
At. 2900
Dotty Comer and Bill Tinker have 
announced their marriage. From 
October until now is a pretty long 
secret, eh?
And for the other two or three 
Jane Frear (one of the TNT 
Twins) is now out of circulation. 
She and Jimmy Graves have de
cided to go steady in name as 
well as in fact.
It seems that A1 Burton is faster 
than the Tartan. We announced 
last issue that his pin was plant
ed when it had already been re
called.
Ginny Fullman and Jack Meyers 
make an interesting twosome.
Dates for th6 Junior Prom:
Norma Squitieri and Don Jordano.
Betty Parker and Andy Potter.
Peg Curtiss and Paul Guinther.
Dorothy Davidson and Harry 
Mallisee.
Joanne Tishlarich is bothered 
by Jim Sions silently stealing 
up behind her while she is talk
ing freelysometimes about him!
10 WAITING!
There are more than 6,000 
Bell Telephone operators 
in Pennsylvania 
' and more than 100,000 
in the United States!
Shaving seconds off 
the time required to 
make telephone connections 
is a constant goal 
of these highly skilled 
young women.
Thats one of the reasons 
why America enjoys the 
worlds finest . . . 
and the worlds fastest . .  
telephone service.
By the way . . . 
how long has it been 
since ro5 called home?
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
butterscotch
By Ruth Brodie
Sunday was groundhog day. We never did find out whether 
that occult animal saw his shadow or not, but the mere fact that 
groundhog day has come and gone is in itself a premonition of 
spring. When people start casting about for signs that will say 
whether were going to have six more weeks of winter, that old 
gentleman is showing signs of a gradual demise in the near future. 
Too, with the start of the second semester, evidences of spring on 
the campus begin to manifest themselves. Senior men begin wor
rying if they have enough credits to graduate. Senior girls put 
on their nicest smiles, and wear them until the campus queen nom
inations are over. The dirty white shoes give way to shiny black 
ones^ It wont be so long now until the lawn above the tennis 
courts is covered with prone collegiate bodies.
And Then What Did He Say?
We commented, not long ago, on'the comic strips. We re
member when they werent even serializedjust a different joke 
every day, like a vaudeville show, or Bob Hope. The joke would 
end with someone falling out of the picturePow !,! Ever since 
then, we have been the kind of person who. worries about what 
happens when the story is over. When Abe Ivabibble fell over, 
Pow!, what happened then? Did he hurt himself? What did 
he say? Its the same thing with stories. What'did the man an
swer when his friend told him, That was no lady, that was my 
wife? We suspect this all comes of an inability to regard im
possible situations as impossible. Way down deep, we believe all 
those things really happened.
Elmer Fauntleroy 
There was a picture in the paper, the other day, of the man 
who wouldnt cut his curls because theyd got to be a sort of 
habit with him. This great and glorious country of ours is full 
of people with notions, and that one is probably the least per
nicious of many. But how can curls be a habit? That bothers us. 
Does, the man play with them? Or maybe his wife likes to run 
her fingers through them, if he managed to get a wife. We have 
a rather improbable picture of Joe Glutz, 01* whatever his name is, 
sitting on a rock in the middle of his farm, combing his curls and 
singing, Ieh weiss niclit was soli es bedeuten. We see him 
luring tractors from all around to their doom. A male siren in a 
midwestern cornfield is a horrifying thought.
Maybe, though, he means hes just used to having his curls 
around. We knew a boy like that once. He grew a beard one 
summer when he didnt have anything else to do.
Ex Machina
We rode for the first time last week in one of those cars with 
hydromatie drive or hydrostatic drive or whatever it is. 
Its that business that lets you drive without shifting gears. You 
just press the gas pedal and you go. Although it was very won
derful, we felt a certain resentment about the whole thing,* which 
weve been trying to account for ever since.
It isnt that we have no patience with new-fangled contrap
tions. Its just that we feel that youre not really driving a car 
unless you shift gears. Probably our fathers felt that you werent 
really driving a car unless you had to crank it. Darn it all, 
though, we like to shift gears!
Wasted Education 
We took advantage of the between semester lull to ca',ch up 
on our reading. Although we have about five books at home which 
weve never read, we trotted down to the'library to shop around 
down there. After all these years, we find we stiil dont know the 
Dewey Decimal System. They first tried to teach it to us in gradeschool, and somehow or other it never penetratedprobably be
cause we are too intrigued with the silly alliteration of the name. 
Dewey-decimal-dewey-decimal-dewey-decimal, we burble, head
ing for what we fondly believe is the biography shelf. Needless 
to say, all we ever manage to find is the Old Testament in Armenian.
.EFniI mHCH1TI KHEe1n 
hnGuIDER tT1LiAuD ST1n
Tech Plays Host
NDuGHnDI rEAe 49FTH S1R FIFD 
.A .HL9 d9FTH .AuEFnP 4AunDER
By Bill King
Defense Students 
Show Surprising 
Mental Abilities
Uncle Sam starts his home de
fense training with a mental bang 
at least here in the Pittsburgh 
districtif the Classification Tests 
given here January 6th by the 
Bureau of Measurement and Guid
ance has anything to say about it. 
The results of these tests seems 
to indicate that if we go to war, 
the boys ^behind the guns will have 
quite competent support from the 
brains at home. These same 
tests, or tests very similar to them, 
are being used to section certain 
large classes into groups of equal 
ability and to recomment sched
ule changes.
Because this is true, a compar
ison may be drawn between the 
groups which take then, i. e. the 
Defense Ti-aining students, Tech 
freshmen, and high school seniors. 
The average mental ability of the 
defense group is not, as is easily 
supposed, as great as that of the 
frosh, but the upper half of the 
defense exceeds the lower 10 per
cent of freshman engineers, and, 
furthermore, a considerable num
ber of them would have gotten 
very good marks had they been in 
freshman engineering. Only about 
eight per cent of the entire one 
thousand and seventy-eight de
fense students fell entirely below 
the range of freshman ability. 
Compared t6 high school seniors, 
they are above average with the 
average defense student excelling 
about 73 per cent of high school 
seniors in mental ability.
The Bureau of Measurement and 
Guidance considers this very good, 
for the students for this course 
were chosen with considerable 
haste. An important thing to 
note is that the brains which are 
needed for this countrys defense 
behind the lines are there, and 
Pittsburgh is doing its part in 
more ways than producing iron 
and steel.
giIoHAPTI3C hNl 
mNR3l GPA3l3lR
Following the schedule of the 
Westinghouse scholarship plan, 
the first ten men of an eventual 
group of fifty haveleft school for 
a year of work and practical train
ing in the Westinghouse plants. 
During this interval, time will be 
spent in various plants, in the 
manufacturing departments, test
ing departments, laboratories, 
drafting rooms, and engineering 
offices.
The present group consists of 
the following juniors: Jack Bow
ers, E. E. Aberdeen, Washington 
working on army defense in the 
East Pittsburgh plant; Robert 
Banger, Mgt., Great Falls, Mon
tanaworking on Time Study in 
the Westinghouse Gear Works in 
East Pittsburgh; Victor Kuzmich, 
Mgt-., McKees Rocksdoing Pro
duction Engineering at East Pitts
burgh; John Claypool, M. E., To
ledo, Ohiodoing Production En
gineering in the Generator Division 
of East Pittsburgh; Richard Wil
son, M.-E., Westfield, New Jersey 
-r-is in the Inspection Depart
ment of the Generator Division at 
East Pittsburgh; Egon DeZubay, 
M. E., Bellevueworking in the 
Planning Department of the Emer
gency Products Division. This 
group has charge of building the 
two large armament plants for 
national defense at Louisville, 
Kentucky, and Canton, Ohio.
Bruce Memtt, Chem. E., Pitts
burghsent to chemical lab at the 
Westinghouse Lamp Division at 
Bloomfield, N. J.; Stanley Rosecrans, Met., Pittsburgh  doing 
metallurgical work at the West
inghouse Lamp^ Division at Bloom
field, N. J.; Louis Hauser, E. E., 
Mt. Pleasant, Pa.Circuit Breaker 
Department at East Pittsburgh; 
Gilbert Treloar, Mgt., Pittsburgh 
High Power Lab at East Pitts
burgh.
Those working in Pittsburgh are 
doing so in order to complete their 
night school courses.
Tech Professor 
Learns War Secret 
While Traveling
Willibald Trinks, Head of the 
Department of Mechanical Engi
neering, sent members of the 
American Iron and Steel Institute 
the secret method of Germanys 
steel industry in hooding or 
blacking out the Bessemer Con
verters so that they cannot be used 
as guides by enemy airmen.
The carefully guarded secret 
was obtained by the Tech profes
sor while" visiting Germany in 
1939. A year or two ago, a distant 
relative died in Germany, leav
ing a part of the estate to Profes
sor Trinks.
I knew it was impossible to 
even try to get the money out of 
Germany and I had been following 
the situation pretty carefully, so
I decided in the summer of 1939 
that the only thing to do was to go 
over and eat it up. I knew there 
was enough to pay for a nice va
cation, so I took it.
Prof. Trinks had access to prac
tically every , German steel mill 
through a reciprocal arrangement 
with university people in the 
United States and Germany.
The Nazis were moving tanks 
and guns around at night and the 
whole country was ordered black
ed out> That is when I first learn
ed that they had blacked out the 
steel mills. Theres no trick to 
shield the blast furnace or any of 
the other furnace operations inside 
a steel mill, but the converters, 
thats different. In fact its so dif
ferent that the Germans have dis
covered something else in connec
tion with it and thats the inter
esting part.
In addition to hooding the con
verter, making it absolutely lightOfficer Lectures 
On Coast Guard
This afternoon at 4:30 Lieuten
ant J. A. Dirks of the U. S. Coast 
Guard will give a talk and show 
motion pictures about the Coast 
Guard Academy. The lecture will 
be given in the Fine Arts The
ater and all students who are In
terested are requested to attend.
This lecture is one of several 
given by Lieutenant Dirks in col
leges and universities in this dis
trict to acquaint qualified students 
with the opportunities offered by 
a career in the Coast Guard. Ap
pointment to the Coast Guard 
Academy is by examination only. 
The next-examination will be held 
May 14, and is open to young men 
between the ages of seventeen 
and twenty-two.
The scholastic requirements are 
in general those required for ad
mittance to engineering colleges.
The Coast Guard Academy is 
located at New London, Conn. The 
course of instruction which cov
ers a period of four years, is 
basically scientific and engineer
ing in character, but also includes 
extensive nautical training and an
nual cruises to foreign ports. The 
pay of a cadet while in training 
is $780 per year, plus an allow
ance for subsistence. Upon grad
uation a cadet is eligible for a 
commission as ensign in the Coast 
Guard.
Lieutenant Dirks will supply 
further information in his talk 
this afternoon, and application 
blanks are available in the Deans 
office.
proof so that it cannot be discov
ered from above, it also saves all 
the material which we now dis
charge into the air when the fur
nace is blowing.
Approximately 10 per cent of 
the steel and all of the valuable 
vanadium found in ores is lost. 
The German process saves this 
and now is the source of Ger
manys vanadium. Most Ameri
can ores are lacking in vanadium 
which Swedish ores have.
Professor Trinks, born in Ger
many 66 years ago, has been a 
resident at Tech since the school 
organized. In fact, hes the only 
living member of the original 
teaching staff still at Tech. In 
addition to his work at Tech, he 
also serves as a consulting engi
neer for Jones and Laughlin Steel 
Corporation.
After Ive turned it over to the 
Iron and Steel Institute, I shall be 
very glad to help anybodybuild 
one of. the German types. I want 
to do everything I can to help this 
country. I
Last Thursday Carnegie Tech 
played host to a group of Chilean 
college students. The group, which 
consisted of twenty-six young 
men and women, is visiting the 
United States for a period of two 
months. At present the students 
are engaged in visiting several of 
the larger cities in this part oC 
the country, and later they will 
attend Columbia University. They 
have already been to Boston. 
Rochester, New Haven, and 
Buffalo, and will visit Washing
ton after leaving Pittsburgh.
The Chileans, except for their 
charming accent, would easily pass 
for American college students. 
Their dress and actions were typ
ically American. Their reactions 
to the many things they have seen 
since coming to the United States, 
however, are very interesting. One 
of then* biggest surprises came 
when they first saw the famous 
New York skyline, but, as one of 
the young men remarked, it was 
not as representative of American 
cities as the New York suburban 
sections.
The phase of American life 
which impressed the visitors most 
was the emphasis placed on cul
ture, for in every city which they 
have visited they were struck by 
the number and quality of mu
seums, concerts, philharmonic or
chestras, and art displays. In fact, 
one of the group remarked that he 
thought that the United States 
was becoming more and more the 
cultural center of the Western 
Hemisphere.
The students enjoyed the 'Pitts
burgh weather. In their native 
city, Santiago, snow falls seldom, 
if everin fact the temperature 
is almost never below freezing. 
Snow is, however, not a novel ex
perience for the Chileans for they 
often go skiing in the mountains 
only a few hours drive from tho 
seacoast.
Tho American colleges were 
found by the Chileans to be quite 
similar to their own, in fact, tho 
only marked difference is the 
school spirit so much in evidence 
in our own schools. In Chile, tho 
students merely consider college 
as an institution of learning 
an advanced high schooland at
tach no loyalty to it. But the 
methods of the instructors and the 
courses are quite similar to those 
employed in this country. In. fact, 
the history of the university to 
which the members oi' tho group 
attend in Chile is quite similar to 
the history of Tech. The Univer
sity was named for its founder, 
Santa Maria, who was a prominent 
Chilean industrialist. The school 
is noted for its engineering courses, 
was founded to provide well train
ed engineers and scientists to ex
ploit Chile's industry and re
sources.
The group which visited Tech is 
one of several who have been sent 
to America by the Pan American 
Cultural Society. At the present 
time there is a similar group in 
South Carolina, and shortly a 
group of skiiers will arive in Cal
ifornia. 
Bill Sivitz 08 
Stricken Suddenly
William Sivitz, Chem. Eng. 08, 
member of the first graduating 
class at Tech, died last Thursday 
morning.
Mr. Sivitz was President of the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the Society 
of Chemical Engineers. He has 
been listed for many years as a 
visiting lecturer at Tech. In the 
industrial world, he was manager 
of the Pittsburgh branch of the 
Duriron Corporation. .
His son, Robert, Chem. Eng. 40, 
was a sports editor of the TAR
TAN. His daughter, Maita, Gen. 
Sci. 41, is a member of the pres
ent TARTAN staff.
nmmwmmtmmmmmmmmmm
yoP Wo5P 
FPo3I VoPTARN 
VAHH 
grH;Al 
LoTNlu3NH1 
giB kJE
Campus
Representative
For
Victoria
Flower
Shop
Wm. Penn Way
YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY
You'll enjoy the relaxation of a 
pause more if you add the re
freshment of ice-cold Coca-Cola. 
Its taste never fails to please, 
and it brings a refreshed feel
ing you will like. So when you 
pause throughout the dqy, make 
it the pause that refreshes with 
ice-cold Coca-Cola.
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTS BURG II. PA.
Hetes the tetteshm 
 at you realty goiot "
\ delicious 33R1UOOO 3R
II
telpS
TheCCartiS u,HEhPC ROGFAEM
sweeten VoUl b6^  it costs so little
OM d WkJ 0
9

---------------------------------------------------

THE OAJRNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941
Yeliiidi Found!
FATFnFID dFD9 yAU 2E1rD bAg 
o1CAEI ,vHeaDFAn Ar quIB1nGI
By S. M. It. S.
Now we know who Yehudi is 
he.s a sandy-haired, aristocraticlooking young man of twenty-four 
who packs his two rare violins 
just as carefully as he does the 
pictures of his (two young chil
dren.
One of the violins is a Stradivarius and the other is a Gerneriusa present from his wife. 
Mr. Menuhin carries his violins in 
an especially built case  inlaid 
wood inside with room for both 
instrumentsand light leather 
outside.
At this point his main concern 
is the problem of the draft. Since 
he is only 24, and a native-born 
American, he is eligible for con
scription, and the fact that his 
draft order number is very low, 
presents somewhat of a problem. 
This came to his attention when 
he wanted to leave for a South 
American concert tourhe found 
that in order to leave the country 
he had to get a ninety day leave 
of absence. Iiis case will again 
come before his local draft board 
when he returns from the tour in 
August.
When asked if he thought army 
training would be harmful to a 
musician, he emphatically an
sweredNo. Rather did he 
think that the phyical training 
derived from army life would do 
a musician a world of good. And 
in many casesIts exactly what 
he needs.
But Yehudi thought that this 
should always be kept in mind 
that the symphony orchestra is 
the only contraceptive to band
music that we have. The sym
phony is vitally necessary to the 
lives of the people. He does not 
think, that musicians should be 
exempt for this reason alone, how
ever, but he does believe that men 
with dependents and families 
should not be called for these two 
reasons: first, so that no financial 
difficulties arise, and secondly, to 
keep the family intact. He ap
plies these rulings to himself as 
well, but on no other counts does 
he claim exemption.
He may have been thinking of 
his own children when he said 
No child should be driven to, oxtrained for a concert career. Music 
for the youngster should not be 
his sole interest. He should be 
encouraged to have hobbies, to 
read, to play. If, after several 
years''of such . living, he really 
loves music more than anything 
elsethen he should concentrate 
on it. But Mr. Menuhin doesnt 
believe that in order to be a true 
artist one must spend.every mo
ment of his time furthering this 
aim. Rather does he. repeat his 
belief that in order to be a true 
artist one must know life in all its 
aspects.
When we asked him what he 
thought of Carnegies policy 
combining an academic course with 
a music course, he said it was a 
marvelous idea, and very practical. 
Of course, he said, for solo per
formance, one must have special 
additional training.
As we left his hotel quarters 
Yehudi shook our hands and wish
ed us good luck. No more than 
we wish to you, friend.
g g g pn D9H 41eauI
Not One Bui Three!
Chapel service next week prom
ises to be one of the most impres
sive and most important in the life 
of the student. Three notable 
speakers representing the three 
various faiths on campus will take 
part in this, the biggest event of 
Religious Emphasis Week. Dr. 
Robert Connery of New York, 
Dr. Everett Clinchy of Washing' ton, D. C., and Rabbi Nathan Perilman of New York will discuss 
the Catholic, Protestant, and Jew
ish faiths respectively. Afterwnrds, opportunity will be given 
to the students for an informal 
forum in which all questions will 
be answered and discussed. In 
past years the participants have 
shown a notable cooperativeness 
and unusual interest in the de
bates, and it is hoped that the 
chnpel will again be a shining 
event.
IRC Holds Contest
The International Relations Club 
Is going to beat the professors to 
the draw. The first special meet
ing of this semester will start out 
with an examinationnot for 
grades, but certainly for a won
derful prize. Time Magazine of
fers to all IRC clubs having a 
membership of twenty-five or 
more people, any book valued up 
$5.00 to be given to the contestant 
making the highest score within 
the club group. It is important 
that twenty-five IRC members 
show up for the meeting tomorrov} 
at 3:30 in the Union.
The future of IRC was mapped 
out at a recent executive meeting. 
At the next regular meeting, the 
current and complicated lendlease bill will be discussed.
AXA Meets Today
There will be a meeting of AXA 
today at five oclock in the' faculty 
club room. Material for the Bard 
is now being copy-read.
CMA Meets Sunday
Religious Emphasis Week will 
open on the Carnegie campus with 
the monthly meeting of the Car
negie Methodist Association on 
Sunday, February 9, at 4 oclock 
in the Student Union.
A speaker has been invited, and 
after the program, dinner will be 
served. There will be a fee of 25 
cents. Everyone is invited to join 
the Association in its observance 
of Religious Emphasis Week.
Graduate Scholarships
Seniors are Invited by the Bu
reau of Placements to come in and 
browse through a folder contain
ing information on fellowships 
and scholarships to leading col
leges and universities.
APO Exchange 
To Lend Books
Alpha Phi Omega, Boy Scout 
honorary, is sponsoring a plan to 
lend books to needy students.
Persons intending to take ad
vantage of the plan are requested 
to write to Dr. Beryl E. Warden. 
Dean of Students, stating their fi
nancial need and giving informa
tion in regard to part time jobs, 
scholarships received, and other 
pertinent facts.
Alpha Phi Omega is also spon
soring a used book exchange in 
Industries Hall daily except Sat
urday from 11:30 to 1:30. Stu
dents should bring textbooks for 
which they have no further use. 
A service charge of five cents will 
be made to the person selling each book.
Kappa Chi Kappa, the Girl 
Scout honorary, is holding a sim
ilar book exchange in Margaret 
Mox'rison Building.
prr 41ea -N Aero Seniors
hnDHEHIDFnP SEAPE1e ST1nnHG 
oAE mHTFPFAuI ,ea91IFI dHHi
The upper third of the class is 
especially ux-ged to investigate 
these offers of post graduate work 
before Max*ch 1, when the time 
limit expires.
Honoraries Entertain
Sigma Alpha Iota, Techs na
tional womens music honorai-y, 
and Phi Mu Alpha, the mens mu
sic honorary, will entertain Saint 
Olafs Choir, a student gxoup of 
Oberlin College, at a tea on Wed
nesday afternoon at 3:30 in the 
Exhibition Hall. Dr. Melius Chris
tiansen, director of the choir, will 
present the group in a concert 
Wednesday evening at the Syria 
Mosque.
Citcoms Hold Dance
Citcom Clan will hold a Valen
tines Day party on Friday, Feb. 
14, following a special Religious 
Emphasis Week* program at the 
Union. The program will start at 
4:30. Admission will be by mem
bership card or by invitations, 
which are to be sent out by the 
executive board. Refreshments 
will be served at 0:00.
Hustle OITiee Hours
The Thistle office will be open 
Friday afternoons, Saturday morn
ings, and Saturday afternoons 
from now until the Thistle is dis
tributed in May. All membeis of 
the staff as well as any who would 
like to begin work should be pres
ent and prepared for work each 
week at one of these times.
The Thistle office will be open 
at other unannounced times dur
ing the week. For further infor
mation see or call Tom Riley, Sc. 
9108.
In the midst of a world torn by 
stx-ife and prejudice, Carnegie Tech 
students of three great religious 
faiths still unite in observing Re
ligious Emphasis week from Februax-y 10 to February 14.
This is an anual event of three 
yeax-s standing. It has met with 
considex-able success in the past, 
and is expected to be well sup
ported this year.
Two years ago, Px-esident Dohex-- 
ty perceived a need for religious 
thought and discussion on the Carnegie campus. In cooperation 
with Pittsburgh ministers, he ask
ed the Federal Council of Chux-ches 
to help sponsor a Religious Em
phasis Week here.
The Federal Council brought 
outstanding preachex-s and leadex*s 
to Pittsburgh for the Tech dis
cussions, and . the speakers were 
enthusiastically x*eceived by the 
students.
The services met with such suc
cess in 1939, that the following 
year the program was extended.
Dance On 15th 
To Be Sponsored 
By Iuterhonoi?ary
Inter-honorary council will 
hold an informal dance at Thistle 
I-Iall on Saturday, Februaxy 15 at 
9 P. M., This will be the fhst 
time that a dance is jointly spon
sored by the day and night school 
honoi*aries. Admission is $1.00 
per couple and the pioceeds will 
go to the general treasuxy of the 
council whose purpose is to px-omote scholaxship, culture, and 
character among Carnegie stu
dents.
Two years ago the intex--honorary council began with the in
tention of making the dance an 
annual afTaii', but because of the 
lack of interest and support the 
dance was not held last year. The 
honoraries are anxious to make 
this event an annual one and 
would greatly appreciate the sup
port of the student body.
The honoraries sponsoring this 
dance are: Mortar Board, Scab
bard and Blade, Sigma Alpha Iota, 
Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, Pi 
Tau Sigma, Eta Kappa Nu; Pi 
Delta Epsilon, Phi Mu Alpha, 
Tiet Tau, Tau Sigma Delta, Al
pha Chi Alpha, 'and Nu Sigma 
Alpha. ;
That year, Pennsylvania College 
for Women and the University of 
Pittsburgh joined with Carnegie 
Tech in sponsoring a Religious 
Emphasis Week for all three col
leges.
In 1940, the Federal Council was 
unable to aid in the event, and 
the three colleges depended upon 
local ministers as leaders of the 
discussion gxoups. It was found, 
that it was difficult to. schedule'a 
group of speakers for three diffexent schools in one week.
Consequently, still another
change was made in the Religious 
Emphasis Week axrangements this 
year. Religious ox-ganizations on 
the CaxTiegie campus are acting in
dependently of other college 
gx-oups.
Pennsylvania College for Wo
men is having a similar event the 
same week, but their aiTangements 
are entirely separate from Car-- 
negies. The Fedex-al Council of 
Churches sponsored the National 
Preaching Mission in Pittsburgh 
dux'ing the past week, but they ax-e 
not helping in the Tech arrange
ments.
Under the leadership of Mr. 
Rollin V. Davis, executive secx-etax*y of the Y. M. C. A. and of 
Student Cotxncil, and Dr. Bex*yl E. 
Wax-den, Dean of Students, plans 
have been progressing smoothly 
for the event next week.
Student cooperation in the Re
ligious Emphasis Week program 
has been admirable in the past, 
and the discussions ax-e expected 
to be well-attended and stimu
lating.
C. S. EDMM
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
THE PROGRESS OF A 
COMMUNITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE 
CHARACTER OF ITS BANKS
B
SUNNIY 
YLDBIYLN KLYy
mp2K,mN
2Qhmf N.pm,N 

hc40 gDe0sg
Made from Pure Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED 
AT
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Crais: Street
Tibbetl to Sing Here
Lawrence Tibbet will sing at 
the Syria Mosque on Febmary 12 
in the sixth performance of the 
May Beegle Series. Tickets are 
available at Mellors, 604 Wood 
Street. Prices range from $1,10 to 
$3.30.
Symphony Concert
For its concerts this Friday 
evening and the following Sunday 
afternoon, the Pittsburgh Sym
phony Orchestra, under the lead
ership of Fritz Reiner, will pre
sent the following program: 
Bachs Brandenburg Concerto No. 
5, Hindemiths Der Schwanendreher, the Variations for Or
chestra of Wendell Otey, and 
Weiners Suite, Opus 18.
Dr. Reiner will leave the podium 
to play the solo piano in the Brandenbux'g Concerto. The viola solo
ist for the Hindemith work will 
be Vladimir Bakalienkoff, Assist
ant Conductor and premier violist 
of the orchestra.
The Variations for Orchestra 
should be of special interest, for 
Mr. Otey, the composer, is a pro
fessor of music at the University 
of Pittsburgh.
Play Awards Offered
Cash Awaids are being offer
ed by the Dramatists Alliance of 
Stanford Univex-sity in a dramatic 
writing contest open to all. One 
hundred dollars and recommenda
tion to N. B. C., Samuel French, 
and American Educational Theatx*e Conference are offered for 
verse dx*ama and prose comedy. 
Fifty dollars and the same rec
ommendations are offered for 
shox't plays suitable for radio use 
and the same amount for dramatic 
criticisms.
Paul Muni and Thomas Mitchell 
will be the final judges. The 
final date for entrance is April 
15. Anyone desiring full details 
should address the Proctor for 
Awards in Drama, English, De
partment, Stanford University, 
California.
YM & YWHA Dance
Student Council of the YM & 
WHA on Bellefield Avenue will 
hold its annual mid-semester dance 
for all Jewish students in the five 
city colleges. Invitations should 
be received by Wednesday, Feb
ruary 5. If you dont receive yours 
by then, notify Ruth Ann Mervis, 
43, by a note on the Margaret 
Morrison bulletin board. The 
dance, is stag and admission is 
free.
Cornell U. Scholarships
Engineering Graduates are eli
gible for several fellowships and 
scholarships at Cornell University. 
Fifteen John McMullen Graduate 
Scholarships valued at $900 per 
yeax's and a score of others rang
ing in value from $500 to $200 are 
offered. Students desiring in
formation concerning these awards 
should see Dean Wax*den.
CORSAGES
yoP .IN U5l3oP FPoS
Lydia Snyder j
119 ATWOOD STREET 
MAyflower 9200
To Take Tests
The Aeronautical Engineering 
Department is conducting a num
ber of experiments to acquaint 
seniors with practical conditions 
associated with aeronautical engi
neering. Exhaustive tests will be 
earned out in the wind tunnel and 
flow analyzer, with all possible 
conditions of temperature and 
pressure being simulated. Em
phasis in the national defense 
px-ogram is on aeroplane produc
tion and improvement, and this 
course has assumed a new status 
commensurate with the import
ance of its subject matter.
The tests will be conducted xinder the guidance of Associate Px'ofessor Blaisdell of the Mechanics 
Department. The apparatus in 
the large aeronautics laboratory 
is up to date and is similar to that 
used by all the large plane man
ufacturers. Models of aeroplanes, 
trains and automobiles are tested 
for their wind drag at certain wind 
velocities. Models of smokestacks 
and similar structures are also 
tested in .this manner to see if they 
can withstand the highest wind 
velocity peculiar to the region of 
the country in which they are be. 
ing built. These tests are neces
sary to make streamlining effective as well as beautiful. The 
smooth sleek lines of the rail
way express and of the modern 
airship are attributable to the -., 
complete tests run in the wind 
tunnels.
The flow analyzer consists of two 
plates of glass set a few inches 
apart over a water bath. A set 
of suction tubes is set over one 
end; a chemical giving off white 
fumes is placed into the water. 
Then, by controlling the suction, 
the effect of air. currents can be 
observed. The practical nature of 
the course provides valuable 
down-to-earth experience for the 
aeronautics student.
yoP e LNAHHr YI3.N 
mAi,RPo5l1 e. .IN
./ FB
pTN .IN
qFP9T1nG 
y1unGER 4Ag
MOntrose 5222
TheCa PA rA
hN;yfN
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the 
College District
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
The FORBES NATIONAL BANK
of
PITTSBURGH
FIFTH AND OAKLAND SEVENTH AND GRANT
hNSONP ou .IN yB KB cB C.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
mr m3HH yHor1t gCoP.T s13.oP
Basketball Spiritless
Since the beginning oi the sea
son, those of us who have been at
tending the so called contests be
ing staged in the gymnasium have 
been shown a new style of play 
that has no place in the Carnegie 
scheme or plan of school life. To 
sum up. the situationthe Tartan 
basketballers have lost their will 
or desire to win.
The condition has grown in size 
until today the basketball squad 
that represents our school is the 
laughing stock of the town. One 
of the downtown papers tagged 
our boys as The Futility Five, 
another labeled them as The 
Hopeless Quintet, and still an
other branded them as Maxies 
Lost Children. A punch line in
vented by a downtown paper is 
good business for it increases in
terest, and that in turn boosts 
circulation. However, these socalled punch lines' become embarrasing when everything they im
ply happens to be true. Unfor
tunate as it is, the young men of 
young Slcibo do look rather hope
less and frustrated when they gal
lop aimlessly up and down the 
hardwood floor.
In my opinion (and the opinion 
of others who know basketball 
far better than I) the team is not 
as bad as they look, for they are 
capable of playing a winning 
brand of ball. The major ques
tion is then, why dont they? In 
answer to this the sideline critics 
have many answers, the coach, 
the captain, the lack of scholar
ships, the lack of team play, poor 
shooting, poor passing, etcetera, 
etcetera, etcetera, For my own 
part I fail to adhere to any of 
these theories, but prefer my own 
diagnosis of the caselack of 
the will to win. To my way of
Plight of Ho<;kc.y
thinking this explains why the 
team is licked before they set a 
foot on the floor, and the reason 
some of the players have gone so 
far as to suggest that the remain
ing games on the schedule be 
cancelled.
If this present attitude con
tinues I Jail to see how the team 
can possibly win a single one of 
their remaining contests. If such 
is the case, possibly the wisest 
thing to do would be to cancel the 
rest of the schedule and thereby 
save the school and the student 
body the disgrace of supporting a 
team that lacks the stuff necessary 
to win a single contest throughout 
the entire season.
New Conference Proposed
The Sports Editor of the Uni
versity of Dayton has taken the 
trouble to formulate a plan where
by the schools located in the Ohio 
Valley and the Tri-State area are 
to form a conference, each school 
to compete with the others in the 
proposed conference in a great 
variety of sporting events. This , 
gentleman suggests the following 
schools be represented in this 
group: Dayton, Akron, West Vir
ginia, Carnegie Tech, Cincinnati, 
Marshall, Butler, and Toledo.
A great majority of the persons 
with whom I have talked regard
ing this proposed conference point 
out the fact that all of these 
schools are west of Pittsburgh, 
and that few of them are known 
to the people of our school. For 
these reasons and some others that 
you or you might think of it 
seems that our good friend (the 
sports editor of the Dayton News) 
is going to have.to scout around 
for another school to take Carne
gie Techs place in his confer
ence.
NDEAnP hLH .H1e NDReFHG 
tR y1Li Ar NDuGHnD NuaaAED
By George Tondorf
Why dont we have winning 
teams has been the lament among 
followers of Tech athletics ever 
since the effects of the deemphasis policy began to be felt, yet 
this years ice hockey team is the 
best in the history of the school, 
and they cant even get games 
to play.
Lack of student support has 
made the icers unable to pay the 
guarantees asked by such colleges 
as Cornell and Lafayette with 
whom the Scots have been trying 
to arrange games. It seems inPittsburgh, and the league was 
abandoned.
At present the Tech hockey 
 coach,,Bob Simpson, is negotiating 
with a few other amateur teams 
for the formation of a local ama
teur league. If the Tartans can 
turn in some decisive victories in 
this competition their drawing 
power will be increased and they 
may be able to post guarantees 
asked by the big hockey powers. 
However, this plan is as yet very 
nebulous and, at best, could not 
be a's effective as whole-hearted 
student support.
credible that the student body of 
Tech is so lethargic that they 
wont turn out to see a winning 
Tartan team in .action against 
some of the finest hockey squads 
in intercollegiate competition.
The Plaid skaters proved their 
mettle in one of the few con
tests that they have been able 
to schedule this season when they 
conquered a picked team ofr hockey 
stars from our old rival, Pitt, by 
a score of 2-0.
Hockey League Dissolved
When Duquesne found most of 
their good players graduating, 
and, following an If you cant 
win, dont play at all policy, 
withdrew from the PennsylvaniaOhio intercollegiate hockey league, 
Tech was the only college ice 
squad left in the Pittsburgh dis
trict. This, of course, made dou
ble headers at the Gardens an 
impossibility and greatly increas
ed the cost per team of renting 
the rink for single games. Beceause of this, the Ohio colleges 
could no longer afford trips to
PORT ZIOLKOWSKI
Center Mel Port and forward Eddie Ziolkowski are two of the best 
reasons for the defeat suffered by Tech 011 the eve of exams, Port being 
a good pivot man and Ziolkowski a deceptive ball handler.
Tartans Lose To 
Pitt Squad, 45-30
Losing Streak 
Now Extended 
To Nine Games
On the Wednesday night before 
finals,, the Tartan varsity basket
ball team proceeded to continue 
their extended losing streak by 
taking it on the chin from their an
cient rivals, the Pitt Panthers. This 
defeat may be attributed to worry 
over oncoming finals by the op
timists, but the local boys were 
undoubtedly stymied in their own 
familiar groove. The Carnegie 
hoopsters again started the game 
with a lot of speed and spirit, but 
seemed to bog down toward the 
end of the third quarter and lose 
interest in the game. With only 
ten minutes to go, the score was 
only 38-28, but the players bog
ged down and the Panthers pro
ceeded to go on to victory to the 
tune of 45-30.
The starting lineup for Tech
Answer lo Sports Quiz
1. Babe Ruth received $80,000 
in the year 1928.
2. Billy Conn will try for 
Louis title in June.
3. Bob Feller and Buck Newsome.
4. Hank Greenberg and Arnovich have been called for the 
Draft.
5. Stanford, Tennessee, Iowa, 
and U. S. C.
6. Paul Brown is succeeding 
Francis Schmidt.
7. Boston College.
8. Bill Kuenzli, Frank Jordano, 
and George Muha.
9. Long Island University.
10. Pat Kennedy, Madison 
Square Garden.
was a combination of several 
previous lineups sponsored by 
Coach Max Hannum. Captain 
Red Burch again started at 
forward and was paired with 
sophomore Hugh Smith. Hank 
Iiolets started at center but the 
officials did not care for his type 
of defense, so he left the game 
the hard way. The starting guards 
were Dave Brinn and Herb Nie-1 
derberger. Coach Max Hannum 
threw practically every man on 
the ioster with any ability as a 
player into the game in an ef
fort to win ity but to no avail. 
Thoughts of a victory have dim
med considerably after the last 
several games arid it looks as 
though the basketball team will 
have a worse season than the 
football team. It is too bad that 
the roster does not contain the 
name of some player of the ab.ility 
of the captain of the two pre
ceding years, Rube Stark. Cap
tain Burch was again high point 
man for the Tartans with seven 
points out of the total of .thirty.
For the Pitt aggregation, Doc 
Carlson started Klein and Straloslci at forwards but Eddie Ziol
kowski played a good bit of the 
game for Klein. Mel Port start
ed at center and the guards were 
Kocheran and Claire Malarkey. 
Straloski was high point man for 
the evening for both teams with 
a total of thirteen markers.
A1 Minetti, of We want Al 
fame was the recipient of several 
gifts at the half, these gifts in
cluding a set of golf clubs, a meg
aphone, and a varsity C sweat
er. These presents represent the 
appreciation that the school has 
for Als presence at all the athletic 
functions of the school and his 
leading the Institute cheer. 1 1
2oAH3N yN3HNP bAP1T ouu A TIo. SA1N uoP I3T iARNB GIN Tv5A1 3T 
qCPAi.3i3lR uoP .IN;l lNQ. RASN ol yNOP5APr .bNl.r:u3PT.B
The members of th Skibo 
squad have been putting every
thing they have into their seem
ingly thankless task often jour
neying all the way to Greensburg to hold practice. On Feb
ruary 21 the Tartans will go to 
Johnstown to play the Nittany 
Lions of Penn State. The game 
must be played there because the 
State students . will follow their 
team to Johnstown while Tech 
students wont even follow their 
team to Duquesne Gardens!
Fate Undecided For Next Year 
If something cannot be worked 
out to insure the future of Car
negie Techs ice hockey fortune, 
we will probably have no team at 
all next seasonthis in the face of 
the fact that this year we have 
one of the strongest collegiate 
teams in the East! Pei'haps if the 
Tartans put up a guarantee and 
brought one of the big college 
teams here to play, Techdom 
would turn out and show the boys 
that were behind them. How 
about it?
dg Qg Qg b,dN
"By BETTY PARKER
Now that we are all recovering 
from cramitis of the first de
gree, we can turn toward a new 
era, a new semester and for the 
moment we all have a little more 
time. With that joyful thought, 
turn your thoughts and actions to 
the W. A. A; and slim your ex
am waistlines down to girlish 
normal again. All the indoor 
sports are in action, and there is 
no reason for you not to be in 
action too.
'The Badminton club forges 
ahead with a new and exciting 
tournament being played right 
now. Badminton is the indoor 
tennis of Tech and it is fast be
coming one of Americas most 
popular sports. Its a game of 
skill, all right, but the nice thing 
is you dont have to be skilled to 
enjoy it.
Bowling, Techs favorite of all, 
is still offered to those who signSquash, Badminton, 
Handball, Volleyball, 
Contests Begin
Although the school enrollment 
is probably depleted with the pass
ing of the first semester examina
tions, those few of us who are left 
can pick up the loose ends of our 
activities and athletics where we 
left off and start right in again do
ing too much for our own good. 
And so pulling together a few of 
those loose ends I begin to won
der just how the intramural pro
gram is progressing and who are 
and have been the winners of the 
various events.
If you recall with me, you might 
remember those spirited six-man 
football games played in the rain 
during the fall of 1940 (that seems 
so long ago). After many bruis
ing and exciting battles the Delts 
became the victors by virtue of 
completing an undefeated season. 
You might even remember our 
article on Windy Heer, the coach 
of the year. Second honors were 
given to the boys from dear old 
Delta Upsilon who lost only to 
the winners.
And then, just before the longed-for Christmas holidays, the In
termural Basketball season got un
der way with a bang with over 
two dozen teams entering the con
test. Up to the coming of ex
aminations the teams who show
ed the most strength and possi
bilities were the D. U.s in the fra
ternity league arid the Citcom 
Clan in the independent league. 
Just last evening this basketball 
tournament again swung into ac
tion and competition is settling 
down to knocking off the present 
top teams.
But now we are entering into 
another phase of intramural ac
tivity. Entries and schedules 
have been arranged for Squash, 
Handball, Badminton, and Volley
ball. Competition in Squash, 
Handball, and Badminton has 
been designed in a very unique 
manner. Each of these sports Is 
featuring a ladder tournament. 
All positions 011 the ladder were 
drawn by disinterested parties be
fore competition began. The plan 
works something like this: An en
trant may challenge a team with
in three positions of it on the lad
der. The winner assumes the posi
tion of the defeated team1 if it is 
higher up the ladder. Each team 
must play at least one match a 
week. Competition lasts one 
month. If a team fails to play the 
required games it will be drop
ped to the bottom of the ladder. 
A forfeit is the same as a defeat. 
All playing dates are arranged
by the competing teams. Each 
day the standings on the ladder 
are posted on the Intramural 
Board in the Gym. Each partici
pant has now a schedule of all 
available playing hours and may 
challenge and play accordingly. 
The rules are so arranged that 
the top teams receive a fair 
break on the challenging, and it 
is necessary for any entrant to 
keep a steady winning streak to 
emerge victorious.
With twelve teams entered in 
competition Volleyball is also on 
the general program. This sport 
is arranged in regular tournament 
form, each team dropping out as 
it is defeated, the winning teams 
advancing to the next bracket 
to compete with another winner. 
This schedule will last for th 
coming three weeks.
And so we are now up to date; 
that is, at least we have looked 
at past performances of the var
ious intramural teams and are 
looking ahead to more activity to 
come. Gradually the winners are 
amassing points toward the allimportant point trophy.
GIN AOo;N i5C 3T .IN .PoCIr ouuNPN1 Or .IN cl.PAS5PAH moAP1 uoP 
.IN oPRAl3fA.3ol IA;3lR .IN SoT. 
Co3l.T uoP cl.PAS5PAHTB
SPORTS QUIZ
1. Who was the highest paid 
baseball player of all time, and 
what was his salary at this time?
2. Who is the next contender 
for Joe Louis heavy-weight 
crown, and approximately what 
time will the fight be held?
3. What two major league 
pitchers have the possibility of 
receiving the highest salaries for 
the 1941 season?
4. What two big league base
ball players have recently been 
called for the Draft?
5. What football teams do the
following men coach: Clark
Shaughnessy; Major Robert Neyland, Eddie Anderson, Howard 
Jones?
6. What high school football 
coach has recently been appointed 
coach of the Ohio State squad, and 
who does he succeed?
7. Who won the Lambert Tro
phy symbolic of the outstanding 
team of the East?
8. What Tech football players 
had the following numbers in the 
1940 season: 21; 85; 42?
9. What basketball team does 
Clare Bee coach?
10. Who is the best basketball 
referee of the year, and in what 
games does he referee most fre
quently?
Answers to sport quiz, page 5, 
column 2.
ed up on the boards, and all the 
remaining lines should be played 
off very soon. If you have some 
free lines coming, to you, dont 
miss the opportunity ... go up 
to the alleys and roll your own.
Basketball is coming into its 
own as usual this time of the 
year, and  all those of you1 who 
shone on your high school teams 
should be out putting your energy 
to Techs glory. With more en
thusiasm on your part we can put 
Tech on the girls basketball map, 
and it looks as though the girls 
ought to come through with some 
winning teams. No one else does.
Look on the boards for news 
and follow the sports of your own 
W. A. A. Even if you dont have 
time to come out for all the sports, 
you can support the events of the 
associations as they come along. 
Well see you out for W. A. A.
B-O-W-L
N.-2,b. tpdyhbK zx LHnDI
Per line between the hours of' 12 and 5 P. M.
ONE FREE GAME W1TII YOUR STUDENT TICKET 
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET AT THE TARTAN OFFICE
-nFCHEIFDR mHLEH1DFAn
407 S. CRAIG ST. (Near Forbes) MAyflowcr 2998
THISTLEDOWN
THOUGHTS ON BASKETBALL
PANTHER SHARPSHOOTES.1ED1n NaAEDI dEFDHE 
mHCFHUI hg wg NaAEDIV 
,vaT1FnI bHU SEAPE1e

---------------------------------------------------

its the milder better-tasting cigarette 
. . . the smokers cigarette
Chesterfield has so many things a smoker likes 
so well that its just naturally called the smokers 
cigarette. You always enjoy Chesterfields COOLER, 
bettertaste. ..and theyre really MILDERnot strong 
or harsh. Get yourself a pack of Chesterfields.
zxxo5 iAx3 5r A uN..NP 2rAPN.uN
Jerry Greys Band 
Plays Vocational^ 
St. Valentine Hop
Feb. Is Set 
For Celebraiibn 
In Thistle Hall
Mister cupid, personified by the 
Evening College of Industries, will 
hold a Valentine Hop this Satur
day night.
Jer'-y Grey and his ten-piece or
chestra will break the heart 
strings with sweet dance music ior 
the dancing sweethearts. Jerry 
Greys orchestra has been furnish
ing the music for the dancers at 
the Mission Inn. This will be 
Jerrys first engagement on the 
campus and the music should be 
at its best.
Thistle Hall will be lavishly 
decorated with hearts and arrows. 
The hall will be filled with bright 
lights of red and white hues. Our 
much used crystal ball will cast its 
plotted reflections down upon the 
dancers.
Lovely corsages will be present
ed at the door only to the first 200 
niember of the fair sex, so be on 
hand early to be sure that your 
fair lady gets one. Dancing as 
usual will begin at 9 oclock and 
as necessary culminate promptly 
at midnight.
The officers of the Evening Col
lege of Industries include Ed Tiepel, President; Stanley Stolarczyk, 
Vice President; Frank A. Carlos, 
Treasurer; and Miss Eleanor Gor
sky, Secretary.
Evening Student Council Insig
nia Award workers will have an 
excellent opportunity to earn 
credit toward their awards. Those 
workers from Industries can ob
tain their four necessary college 
points at this time. Decorating 
will be done on Saturday after
noon at 2 oclock and the clean
up period on Sunday at the same 
hour.
ScHlhlins
Re-Exams
File Applications 
Before Feb. 5th
Many students think the only 
time they are able to take re
examinations is in September. 
For those students who have 
grades of F and I, there are week
ly re-examinations through Feb
ruary and March. In order to 
take them, all students with F or 
I grades must register at the Reg
istrars office. This should be done 
before February 5, 1941. How
ever, registration will be permit
ted for a few days after that date.
These re-examinations are of
fered every Saturday from Febru
ary 22nd to March 29th. They 
start in the afternoon at 1:30 P. 
M. and end at 5:30 P. M.
A schedule of the examinations 
will be on the bulletin boards 
soon, so that all students can know 
when to take their respective tests. 
If the number of applications is 
small, then entrants will probably 
be notified by mail.
GIN VAPlNR3N FHA31
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opinions 
expressed in Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Editor
Edward FR1T 
Hssociate Editors 
Jim Miller 
Adeline Nuss 
Jcrin Berkenbush 
StulT
Arnold P. Anex Frank Lncny
Jerome Bell Nancy Lewis
Isabelle BcnshoiT Steve Marcinizyn
Harold Geilmnn Mary McDermitt
Arthur Gibbons Jocelyn Pearsall
Dave Hoffman David Pettigrew
John Hopkins Catherine Puskar
Bill Hurtt Thomas Savage
Robert King Kay Schwartz
Dorothy Viets -'"-ui g,,',0,r__________
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
General News 
Editorial Comment 
111 rateili al Organ ization
In the twenty-two short years 
during which it has been my good 
fortune to be counted among those 
present on the battle scarred plane 
called Earth, I have waited for 
many things.
When I was younger, I waited 
patiently for Christmas, Easter, 
and the greatest of holidays, My 
Birthday.
Years slipped by and I entered 
school, during which time I waited 
somewhat impatiently for gradua
tion and my diploma.
After I had received said diplo
ma. I waited for a job, and since 
getting the job, Ive waited each 
day for the four oclock whistle 
because vnu all know The Five 
OClock Whistle Didnt Blow.
Then, despite the accumulated 
waits of twenty-two years. I 
arrived at school last Monday 
night eager, fresh, and ready to 
registerand what do I have to 
doWAIT.
My spirit was broken by what 
seemed to be the straw which 
broke the camels back and I 
wandered listlessly to my place in 
what was the first, of a long time 
of lines of which I was a part dur
ing the evening.
Eagerly I cast about for some 
sort of diversion, but all I could 
see were long lines of students 
WAITING. My Gosh, Ive been 
standing in one place for twenty 
minutes, I heard one fellow exJanuary 27, 1941.
Dear Sir:
I have heard many Evening 
School students express the wish 
that they might participate in a 
branch of the R. O. T. C. Now 
that the country needs trained 
men so bad, it seems most logical 
to me that such an organization 
could do much in giving .the Even
ing School student a basic knowl
edge in Military Training. I would 
appreciate it if you would bring
claim, while another quietly cuss
ed, everything and everyone, un
der his breath. I thought of some
one waiting at home for me, and 
then quietly joined him in his 
cussing.
Why must we spend so much of 
our time waiting? Its bad enough 
to take our hard earned money, 
but making us wait in line for two 
hours, during which time we can 
think of all the things we could 
buy with it, is just rubbing salt 
into open wounds.
There must be some solution to 
this difficult problem, but Im very 
sure that combining the Fine Arts 
and Engineering Students in one 
line is not the right one.
Perhaps we should have three 
nights for registration; one night 
for Engineers; one for Arts, and 
one for Industries. Or perhaps we 
should completely separate the 
cashiers who receive payments for 
the three groups. Maybe, the 
problem could be solved by sim
ply adding two or three more 
cashiers or allowing the students 
to re-reeister for each class on the 
last recitation before the final.
Just what the correct solution is 
no one knows, but there is one 
thing we do know. It is not fair 
to ask the students to wait end
lessly in the line after working all 
day. Something should and can 
be done to eliminate this bottle
neck in registration.
this question before the Student 
Council, or the entire Evening 
School student body via the Plaid. 
I would like to see what kind of 
response this idea brings.
LEONARD H. McCOY.
Editors Note: Since we have
no authority to make any decisions 
in matters, we are submitting the 
above letter to Student Council 
for consideration. We will pub
lish the results in a later issue of 
the Plaid.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
DANCE TO BUZZ ASHTON FEB. 22
PM Nu qATGI 
500 and Bingo 
Party Feb. D9
Phi Nu Social Fraternity will 
hold a Valentine Day Card Party 
bn Saturday night, February 8th. 
The party will be held at the Car
negie Union, 5075 Forbes street.
All Phi Nu members are invited 
to attend. The card party will 
give those members who have 
been inactive, an excellent oppornity to renew old acquaintances.
Those attending the affair will 
play bridge, 500 and enjoy an 
old-fashioned game of Bingo.
A light lunch consisting of sand
wiches, cookies and coffee will be 
served during the evening.
The card party will start at 8:30 
and culminate promptly at mid
night.
Social Calendar 
for
Second Semester
February 8Evening College of 
Industries Dance. Thistle Hall. 
February 22Washington Birth
day DanceEvening Student 
Council. Thistle Hall.
Max-ch 1Evening College of En
gineering Dance. Thistle Hall. 
March 15Evening College of 
Fine Arts Dance. Thistle Hall. 
March 29Nu Sigma Alpha 
Dance. Thistle Hall.
April 5Evening College of In
dustries Dance. Gymnasium. 
April 19Evening College of Fine 
Arts Dance. Gymnasium.
April 26Evening College of En
gineering Banquet. (Place to 
be assigned.)
May 10Inter - Evening College 
DanceEvening Student Coun
cil. Gymnasium.
All dates subject to change.
it. He also likes classical rec
ords, stamp collecting, and photo
graphy. He prefers smooth danc
ing, and long (commercial plug) 
dresses. He has no steady girl, 
but if he had one she would be a 
brunet. If any of you gals crave 
a handsome, blond soulmate, front 
and center, and meet David W. 
Pettigrew, Jr., vice president from 
Engineering and Student Council.
ON REGISTRATION
Our hats are off to all you peo
ple, and there were millions of 
you, who jarripaclced yourselves 
into the gym Mondny night for 
hours and hours just for the pleas
ure of plunking down your cold 
cash for something youll flunk 
maybe, anyway, Seems wo were 
initiated Into something new in 
registrations known as the stock 
hording method. No linestheyre 
ko regimented. Just let everybody 
mill around together and hope 
i. If somebody gets to 
L'sk at the right time, 
it completely unnecesnlcc thing about it, wc 
met so many of our fellow stu
dents race to face, cheek by jowl 
in fact. We are especially grateful 
to the gentleman who let us rest 
our elbow in his collar bone for 
half an hour. His name was Wal
ter, and he had big, blue eyes. He 
was wonderful. Oh well . . .
We also ran into a man who 
claims he runs the Bell Telephone 
Company. He wouldnt tell us his 
name although we coaxed and 
coaxed. All he would say was 
that he was not Mr. Bell and he 
had no telephone number to give 
us. Seems he doesnt believe in 
telephonesclaims theyre demor
alizing. What would ever have 
happened to A Message for Gar
cia if there had been no tele
phone, or was there? Anyway, see 
what we mean?
The Registration boys came 
through with another idea, ton. 
This one is really a darn good one. 
Seems that all the Defense Boys 
ave loaded down with money and 
drive long, long Packards to class 
with the result that there is no 
parking space for the ordinary 
Buicks the rest of us run around 
in. As a result, we girls of the 
'Thursday night sewing circle have 
been wondering what we are sup
posed to do with Fathers car. 
Comes the Reg. boy to the rescue 
with beautiful big parking stick
ers to stick hither and thither on 
various car windows and park 
here and there on previously sa
cred spots. See your nearest 
sticker owner .for locations. Youll 
love the stickers"Special Park
ing. My Heart is in the Work.
4, 1941
Dance 
Be-examinations
D. W. PETTIGREW, JR.
New Officer 
Elected At 
Annual Party
Our new vice president of the 
College of Engineering and Even
ing Student Council is David W. 
Pettigrew, Jr., who hails from Ar
nold, Pa.
Dave graduated from Arnold 
High School with the class of 1937. 
His record at 'high school reads 
like a page from Whos Who. He 
belonged to the National Honor 
Society, Glee Club, Dramatic Club, 
Order of Demolay, and was active 
in' Safety Work. Despite his 
heavy schedule of extra curricular, 
activities Dave was an honor stu
dent during the entire four years 
he soent in school.
After graduation he entered the 
Aluminum Company of America 
at New Kensington where he is 
employed in the research division. 
Came registration time and he en
tered the employ for the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology where he 
is in the Department of Metallur
gical Engineering.
Since coming to Tech he has 
earned one Insignia Award and 
been elected to membership in the 
Nu Sigma Alpha and Sigma Delta 
Phi fraternities.
When we asked him what land 
of food he likes he said, Any
thing, as long as there is lots of
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
rt itS u,tHE PRE OGFAMEPPE 
PRAP
Broadway s Newest Slar 
CAROL BRUCE 
of "LOUISIANA PURCHASE
Copyright 1941, Liccmr & Mr* LR.RGG3 Y3A
