rARTAN
VOL. 42No. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949
Greatest Political Campaign?Begins
SpringCarnival 
Decorations 
Heads Named
Bennard Perlman And 
Tom Sedgwick To Be 
Co-Chairmen
Bennard Perlman and Thomas 
Sedgwick have been named the 
decorations co - chairmen for 
Spring Carnival by general chair
man J. K. OHare. Their appoint
ment completes the roster of com
mittee chairmanships to be filled 
and marks the beginning of the 
operation of the full committee.
Carnival committee has decided 
to revive another of the pre-war 
features this year. Instead of 
holding two dances in the gym on 
successive nights, the Friday night 
dance will be a street dance in 
the vicinity of the Midway.
With a preliminary budget now 
completed by budget chairman 
Tom Hall, sizable reductions over 
last years expenses are antici
pated in many areas. Hall expects 
to sell the tickets at a price con
siderably below that of last year.
Selection of a Campus Queen 
will be made this year by popu
lar vote. Last year the method 
was for a group of judges to se
lect the Queen from among a 
court elected by the student body.
A return to a pre-war feature 
will be a fancy 16-page program 
which will chronicle the entire 
Carnival and provide a souvenir
Hoopla Accompanies Drive On Council
At the Dormicom rally last Thursday a brass band marched 
through Skibo (left) exhorting the lunching students to join in 
the rally. Later Wes Kenney (right) took the podium in front of 
Administration hall to stump for the Dormicom candidates.
Council Elections Notice
Margaret Morrison
Senior Exams
The Executive Board has 
adopted, effective with the 
spring semester of 1949, the 
policy of scheduling second - 
semester senior examinations 
concurrently with the exam
inations for other students. The 
Board has decided that it would 
be more convenient henceforth 
to schedule examinations for 
all students of a class at one 
time. The official calendar has 
been revised to schedule final 
examinations for all day stu
dents on June 6 through June 
14, 1949. The dates for Bac
calaureate (June 15) and for 
Commencement (June 16) con
tinue without change.
The all-school Student Coun
cil election will be held Friday, 
February 25, from 11:15 a. m. 
to 1:45 p. m. Voting may be 
carried on at the following 
polling places:
Engineers: Industries hall, 
Engineering hall
Maggy Murphs: Margaret
Morrison college 
Arts students:Fine Arts foyer 
All School: Skibo 
The candidates from each of 
the colleges are as follows: 
Engineering 
Seven positions open 
Wallace E. Parr 
Theodore C. Goodson 
Frederick Price 
John S. Fondrk 
J. R. Horsch 
Stuart Berkowitz 
Don N. Stitt 
Capel McCutcheon 
James R. Reynolds 
Robert Sinclair 
Richard Cutkosky 
Metro Spewack 
Frederick E. Lunt 
For the unexpired term, (1 
semester), one position open: 
Henry Clay 
Thomas J. Hall 
 James Fleming
Production Staff Appointed 
By Scotch and Soda Board
Full-scale production on this years Scotch and Soda show, 
Molecule Man, moved one step closer last week withxthe appoint
ments of A1 Lehman as head of costume design, Joe Jennings as 
scene designer, and Anne Pearson as dance director.
Also named were Gladys Ford,4--------
head costumier; Charles Larkin, 
head carpenter; Janet Cohen, 
lights; Wes Kenney, assistant 
lights, Romain Johnston, head 
paints; and Willard Hines, proper
ties.
Requires Variety
A1 Lehman, who did the cos
tumes for last years Ladys at 
Work and assisted with the de
signs for the 47 and 46 produc
tions, is a senior dramat, majoring 
in costume design.
Molecule Man will require a 
greater variety in costumes since 
the characters come from different 
walks of life and professions as 
well as different sections of the 
country. Lehmans biggest prob
lem at the moment is the design
ing of a costume for Molecule Man 
himself.
Scene designer Joe Jennings 
was head carpenter for The La
dys at Work last year. A sopho
more in drama, he was in charge 
of paints for this years presenta
tion of The Linden Tree, had 
a part in Midsummers Night 
Dream, and was assistant design
er for the Corner of God sets.
Has Big Job 
Anne Pearson, talented daugh
ter of Molecule Man director, 
Talbot Pearson and dance director 
for the show, is also director of all 
dancing in the drama department.
Besides doing a number in the 
show herself, she has the respon
sibility of changing the thirty-six 
member dancing chorus from its 
present standing as an eager, but 
untrained group into the polished' 
professional - like Terpsichoreans 
that the play requires.
Three positions open 
Marilyn Gasche 
Laura J. Ehni 
Jeanne Baker 
Elaine Sobol 
Janet Syle 
Nancy Thompson 
Sally Hutchinson 
Donna A. Durin 
Josephine Crisanti 
Geraldine Young 
Assistant Secretary 
One position open 
Nancy Williams 
Judith Garb 
Fine Arts 
Four positions open 
Dorothy Kaye 
Thomas Sedgwick 
Wesley Kenney 
John W. Meserve 
Louis Shulick 
Mary Jo Carraher 
Janice Seiner 
Dick Mitchell 
Robert J. Kubiak 
Students must vote for can
didates from their school at the 
designated polling places. The 
position of assistant secretary 
will appear on the ballots of all 
schools. Voters are requested to 
pay careful attention to the 
voting instructions on the bal
lot. Remember the ballot is 
preferential. First choice is 
marked (1), second choice (2), 
etc.
No electioneering will be al
lowed within 100 feet of a poll
ing place.
Stan Siegel 
Elections Chairman
Hobart Mitchell 
To Sing Famous 
iSermon-in-Song9
Hobart Mitchell, the wellknown baritone, will present his 
Sermon-in-Song at the chapel 
next Tuesday morning at 11:30.
This presentation is a combina
tion of the spoken word and of 
sacred songs. The sermon begins 
with a song, following which the 
music and the spoken text alter
nate, presenting a highly unusual 
rendition of the message.
Listed in his program for Tues
day are the Lords Prayer, 
Deep River, Were You There, 
and selections from Mendelssohns 
Elijah.
Dormicom Announces 
Slate of 13 Candidates
Party Tries Strength In All Colleges;
Giant Rally Tonight To Be Televised
Promising The greatest political campaign in the history 
of this campus, Dormicom (Dormitory-Independent-Commuter) leaders last week officially threw their partys hat into the 
ring by announcing that it would officially support seven can
didates for Student Council in Engineering, three in Fine Arts, and 
three from Margaret Morrison.
At the same time a series of compaign events were announced 
for this week. Tonight there will be a gigantic rally on the soccer
------------------------------------------------------?field following a torchlight parade
beginning at 6:45 at the mensEnd Tyranny!
War whoops and slogan-toting 
campaigners accompanied the 
Dormicom parade through Skibo.
Tartan Invites 
Candidates To 
State Platforms
But Only Five Have 
Presented Statements
All candidates for Student 
Council Council were invited to 
submit statements of their policy 
or platforms in running for of
fice. However, only the five pre
sented below presented state
ments.
Engineering
Jim Reynolds: I am interest
ed in seeing Student Council 
strengthening through efficient or
ganization and the establishment 
of cooperation. Unnecessary dis
cussion on the Council floor, a 
current fault, could be eliminated 
by a stronger committee system to 
sift or answer many of the prob
lems that serve only to lengthen 
and confuse Council meetings.
I would also like to see more 
students participating in the var
ious campus activities, and Coun
cils relations with the administra
tion made more effective.
Stuart Berkowitz: As a candi
date for Student Council, I pledge 
my support to the furthering of 
an extensive and well-rounded 
program of intercollegiate and in
tramural sports.
Through larger student par 
ticipation in these and other cam
pus activities I believe that our 
college spirit can be guided and 
developed to make campus life 
more enjoyable. In fulfilling this 
[Continued on page 6]
dorms and including Morewood 
Gardens on its itinerary.
To Be Televised
At the soccer field a bonfire will 
provide a backdrop for a pep rally. 
Representatives from the down
town newspapers as well as tele
vision will be on hand to insure 
that the rally gets coverage in the 
city press.
Also planned for this week are 
a series of sensational noon
time rallies in Skibo, starting yes
terday. However, they were so 
secret that Dormicom leaders de
clined to reveal their nature be
forehand.
Like Professionals 
Including a number of the hold
overs from last years IAC, Dorm
icom has borrowed some of that 
organizations tricks, to which it 
has added some taken directly 
from the field of professional poli
tics.
The campaign came into the 
open last Thursday with a rally in 
front of Administration hall and 
a march throupgh Skibo. Setting 
up a speakers platform, a brass 
band, and a sound truck, Dormi
com leader Gerry Meyers, Arbon 
Lang, and Wes Kenney exhorted 
the 150-200 students who listened 
to support the Dormicom plat
form and candidates.
In All Colleges
For the first time in the mem
ory of the present student body 
an organization was offering can
didates for Council in all colleges. 
Up to now all party battles have 
been restricted to Engineering.
By offering slates in all schools 
Dormicom leaders hope not only 
to edge out fraternity candidates 
in Engineering but also to pile up 
a large Council majority to ensure 
the election of their choice of 
Council president and to make 
possible the approval of the Hare 
system of counting ballots.
Meanwhile, fraternity leaders, 
though maintaining their custom
ary silence, are beginning to pri
vately express concern over the 
large following that Dormicom has 
apparently built up and were pre
paring to take steps to insure a 
large turnout of their voters.
Benny Benack 
Band To Play 
For IF Dance
Benny Benack and his band 
will provide the music for danc
ing at the Inter-Fraternity dance 
at the Syria Mosque on Saturday 
from nine til one. Dress is formal 
and invitations will be distributed 
through the member houses of IF 
council. There will be no cor
sages.
Arrangements for the dance 
have been made by A1 Mitchell, 
council vice-president, and Pete 
Austin, decorations committee.

---------------------------------------------------

TH CAfcNGE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949
Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. 
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ............................................. Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ................................................ Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ............................................ Burton L. Epstein
Personnel Manager .................................. Richard B. Mitchell
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Sports EditorPaul Offermann, Makeup EditorRalph Painter, Art EditorRussell F. Kulberg, Features EditorFrank Roth, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch, Circulation ManagerLewis S.Sternberg.Proof EditorJohn Braun, Asst. Business Manager Herbert Stone, Personnel AssistantRay Mangold, Chief ReportersJohn K. Fockler, Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy, Joseph Weireich, Frances Hamborsky, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief PhotographerRichard Deininger.Copy StaffJohn Bomman, John Gerum, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Jane Lawton, Elizabeth Asche, Features StaffA. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist, Jack Johnson, Makeup StaffA1 Bader.Senior ReporterBert Kimmel.ReportersJo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Cub ReportersSallyBachman, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell. Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos, William Lyell, Sue MacFadden, Bee Potter, Jane Robb, Nancy Sitler, Michael Stavish, Anita Tabellini, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Joan Blumenthal, Susan Flood, Laura Ehni. ports StaffRobert Dougherty, Charles King, Warren Lithgow, Frederick Lunt, Art Mensing, Gerry Conlon, 
John Roslund.Business StaffMorty Baker, Edmund Denburg, Shirlee 
Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Pow
ers, Mitch Bakon.TypistsPatti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
The Hour Approaches
Apparently Student Council elections are a 
necessary evil. While they serve to give extra
curricular life a needed prod twice a year, they 
also manage to virtually incapacitate Council 
for a period of months.
Probably the most successful job of prod
ding done in recent years is now being accomp
lished by Dormicom through the recognition by 
its leaders of the necessity of creating interest 
and a desire to participate in a large group of 
otherwise excluded students.
Well Planned
While fraternities can bring the power of 
suggestion to bear on their members in en
couraging them to engage in school life, an in
dependent organization must rely upon develop
ing in each individual a desire to participate. 
That Dormicom leaders have shown recognition 
of this factor is seen in the broad base on which 
their party is founded.
However their initial upsurge of power, if 
successful, cannot be considered enough. Main
tenance of interest to preserve the representa
tion they obtain is necessary to make the pres
ent efforts completely worthwhile.
Although there are apparently elements in 
Dormicom that feel that the elections have one 
and only one purposethe election of indepen
dent members to Student Councilthe organi
zation can live up to its promise only if it real
izes its long run, i. e. real, constructive possibili
ties.
Real Objectives
These should be (1) to arouse and maintain 
interest in campus affairs among its constituents 
and (2) to establish and carry out in Council 
aims that further the welfare of and benefits to 
the general student body.
If the Dormicom candidates can do a better 
job of the above than can fraternity candidates, 
then by all means we would like to see such 
candidates on Council, for we remain fully con
vinced that individual personal qualifications and 
contributions are more important than party af
filiation in making construction contributions on 
Council.* * *
Since we promised some time ago to state our 
recommendations for the Council positions, we 
feel obligated not to pass up this last oppor
tunity to keep that promise.
It may be recalled that we planned to point 
out only those outstanding candidates whose 
abilities and interest were proven and whose 
loss to Council we felt would be a significant one.
There may be many capable and hard-working 
students among the candidates, but the only 
ones who we feel have given positive evidence 
are Miss Lynn Gasche, who is running In Mar
garet Morrison, and Tom Hall, who is running 
for the unexpired term in Engineering. The 
others, so far as we can tell, are probably equal 
to one another as gambles.
Miss Gasche has been noted previously in this 
column for her endeavours, and Hall has been 
a Council work-horse in his years term of of
fice.
The Crucial TestDorm Bagpiper 
Comes To Life
Tom Sedgwick Editor 
Of Dormitory Paper
The Dorm Bagpiper, newspaper 
of the mens and womens dormi
tories, has resumed publication 
after several years of absence 
from campus life. Last week the 
initial copy of the new paper ap
peared and heralded the begin
ning of the Dormicom fight for 
Student Council by announcing 
their campaign platform.
Publication will be on a bi
weekly basis for the time being, 
but it is hoped by Editor Tom 
Sedgwick that it will become a 
weekly in the near future. Al
though the paper is to me pub
lished jointly by members of the 
mens and womens dormitories, 
most of the staff positons are now 
held by men until better organ
ization is possible.
In addition to Editor Tom Sedg
wick, the staff will be composed 
of news editor, John Eondrk; 
layout editor, Hugh Fitzgerald; 
production editor, John Engle; and 
photography editor, Lewis Klein. 
News Editor Fondrk will be as
sisted by Angelo Jaimee for sports, 
Wallace Parr for features, and Hal 
Davis for social reporting.
CIT-Chat
By Jack Johnson
In our last column we analyzed the students 
problem in getting a new idea or suggestion adopt
ed by the administration. Since the presentation 
and adoption of ideas are matters of a great deal 
of thought and discussion we must recognize why 
the person to whom the application is made acts 
as he does.
Even though a suggestion may be well organ
ized and presented properly, the possibility of 
apparent unthinking rejection is still present.
Unfortunate Effects
That apparently unreasonable or repeated re
buffs have a damaging effect on student morale 
is an important result which has too often been 
disregarded in the past. Fortunately impatience 
and unreasonableness at the presentation of ideas 
is not too frequent an event. But there are types 
of problems which almost guarantee that (1) the 
idea will not be accepted, and (2) the originator 
will not receive full satisfaction as to why it was 
rejected.
It is the latter eventuality to which some 
serious attention should be directed. Generally 
speaking, it is the more complex type of studentadministration or student-faculty problems which 
fall into this category. Thus, whatever misun
derstanding exists may easily worsen.
Dont Kill Interest
Administration failure to provide a complete 
explanation as to why suggestions are turned 
down can easily damage student morale enough 
so that the desire to make contributions will be 
killed. Recognition should be given to the fact 
that the student is actively trying to make an 
improvement. His interest should be encouraged 
rather than discouraged.
The easing of this perennial sore spot need 
not be too complicated. The obvious primary 
step is to make extra efforts to explain why ideas 
are rejected, whether the reasons be that condi
tions cannot be changed, or that the presentation 
is inadequate and disorganized.
Utilize Student Interest
There is room for constructive effort* along 
the lines of explaining the problem in full and 
then perhaps turning the students interest and 
initiative toward situations that are more likely 
to show improvement, or even to a less obstacle 
ridden phase of the same problem.
Another basic step to be taken in reducing 
the basis for gripes would be to find some way 
to let the students know where to go and whom 
t ose when they have an idea or a complaint. Per
haps a student group could aid in setting up some 
way to inform the student body.
It is surely in the interest of both the student 
body and the administration to promote and main
tain student interest in making improvements, 
for the students to create better conditions and for 
the administration to prevent a deterioration of 
student morale.
HU\ // pVy
UNDERWOOD
584i0
Hut M. MargeTeM to.07
igsnE FssFAPgT
The complete personal typewriter . . . with inbuilt tabulator and many other features that make the Champion a truly modem , 
portable. Finished in soft French-gray and 
chromium. Smart carrying ease Included*
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
644 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320
Hop
"tecs:
contains Viralol
Ayp wCsn.6F pgi4 LgsFiC6I
works wonders in the 
looks of your hair. 
It looks natural... 
it feels natural... 
and it stays in 
place! Try a bottle.
*This special compound gives lustre 
keeps hair in place without stiffness
tjlurts &uJu
hoh-Jlb
new Vaseline cream hair tonic
Marge trao i

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949___________ THE HARNEGIE TARTAN__________"____________________________________________________3
Cyclotron Takes Shape At Saxonburg
Left, one of the 
cyclotron yoke 
pieces is carried 
the last few 
miles to Saxon
burg by high
way. Right, another of the 
pieces is lower
ed onto a rail
road flatcar at 
the Carnegie-Il
linois mill in
Homestead.
New Ideas, Hard Work Make 
Research Center Outstanding
Tremendous developments are going on virtually under 
the noses of the Carnegie Tech student body and faculty, yet 
amazingly few of them are aware of these developments.
These noteworthy projects are the synchro-cyclotron and nuclear 
research center at Saxonburg. They are slowly taking form outside
the glare of publicity which their
While the eyes of the public* 
were first focused upon the giant 
magnet forging poured by Carnegie-Illinois at Homestead, and 
now are upon the coils as they 
mafte the long journey up the 
Mississippi and Ohio rivers (they 
are scheduled to arrive in Pitts
burg today) work has steadily 
gone forward at the Saxonburg 
site.
Installation Nears Completion
Last week the construction 
work on the buildings that will 
house the cyclotron was almost 
completed, and the final form of 
the laboratories and cyclotron in
stallation, both inside and out, 
could easily be visualized by a 
visitor to the site of the former 
KDKA transmitter station. The 
research center is located one 
mile south of Saxonburg, about 
35 miles by auto north of Pitts
burgh.
" J. H. Coleman, Jr., business ad
ministrator of the project, last 
week watched contractors put the 
finishing touches on the 20 labora
tory rooms and the many other 
facilities for research at the site 
in addition to the cyclotron itself.
Begin Operations in 1950
Although these laboratory 
rooms, which will be used primar
ily for research by the staff and 
graduate students, are nearly 
completed, except for furnishings, 
the cyclotron itself will probably 
not be in full operation until the 
summer of 1950.
Prior to that time the giant ap
paratus will undergo the most 
painstaking testing and adjusting 
by Dr. Creutz, whose baby the 
project is. A miscalculation at that 
stage of development could wipe 
out all the years of work that 
have already gone into the task.
Although the Buhl Foundation 
and the Office of Naval Research 
aid Carnegie in the support of the
significance should rate.
building and operation of the cy
clotron, and the Westinghouse 
corporation is giving special as
sistance in getting machinery, the 
design and construction of the 
buildings and most of the equip
ment is under the direction of the 
physics department.
New Type Oscillator
Dr. Creutz designed the cyclo
tron itself and Dr. Everard M. 
Williams of the electrical engi
neering department designed the 
oscillator, which is of a radical 
new design.
Working on a typically luxuryless budget, Mr. Coleman and the 
physics department have combin
ed war-surplus goods and cast-off 
furniture from other school de
partments with new equipment, 
the most economical of building 
materials, and inestimable ingen
uity to provide Carnegie with a
Theyre Strong!
With a strength more than 
40,000 times as great as the 
earths gravitational field, the 
magnets of Carnegies cyclo
tron are powerful enough to 
lift a load of 1250 tons were 
they to be used as ordinary 
magnets.
superb research center at a frac
tion of the expense that might 
have been run up had not such 
care and ingenuity prevailed.
Monster Crane 
A 45-ton capacity, traveling, 
overhead crane, one of the largest 
in the district outside of heavy 
industry, is a permanent installa
tion in the cyclotron chamber. It, 
too, was acquired through war 
surplus, costing Carnegie only 
transportation and erection costs.
To install a new crane would have 
cost about five times as much. 
Similar fantastic savings were 
achieved in the purchase of a 
large part of the other equipment 
at the center.
Tailored Laboratories 
Making the most of the money 
available, the laboratories are 
tailored to suit the needs of mod
ern scientific research and fea
ture the latest in color dynamics 
in their decoration as well as im
provements in facilities.
There will be no danger that 
laboratory workers in the cen
ter will duplicate the experiences 
of freshmen who often try to burn 
water or drink gas in their first 
chemistry labs, for all outlets are 
clearly labeled and even color 
coded.
New Ideas
Walls throughout the new struc
tures, which were added to the old 
KDKA transmitter building are of 
concrete block construction. In 
the labs, vertical channels have 
been set into the walls about four 
feet apart to accommodate a 
variety of adjustable fittings. 
These will be used to easily and 
inexpensively attach benches, 
shelves and other kinds of equip
ment.
Among the auxiliary conveni
ences are a photographic dark
room and a fully equipped kitchen. 
The kitchen, complete with all 
fixtures borrowed from Morewood Gardens, will provide meals 
for the late-working scientists 
who find it impossible to leave 
the center.
Cool In Summer 
The only portion of the installa
tion which will be air-conditioned
Size of Cyclotron 
Project Prevented 
Campus Location
Although the original plans 
for the cyclotron called for its 
location upon the campus, the 
project grew until it became in
creasingly obvious that another 
site would have to be obtained.
In addition to the space re
quirements of the project, it was 
found that the solid rock foun
dation needed to support the 
1500-ton installation was not 
available here nor could be 
great quantities of water need
ed for cooling purposes be easily 
provided.
Not only does the Saxonburg 
site provide an abundance of 
water and a solid rock founda
tion, but there is also limitless 
room for expansion on the 60 
acre site.
In addition to the original 
plans, the low-temperature re
search laboratories of Dr. Im
manuel Estermann and addi
tional nuclear research facili
ties have also been added.
is the cyclotron chamber, which 
must be protected against tem
perature and humidity changes. 
The laboratories, however, will 
have one of the newest types of 
cooling aids to battle the summer 
heat.
The flat roof of corrugated steel 
will be covered with a layer of 
gravel and pitch. Above it, a six 
inch layer of water in evaporation 
tanks will keep the building cool.
Power of one million watt mag
nitude will be required for the 
operation of the giant cyclotron. 
The West Penn Power company 
has already installed a complete 
sub-station for its sole use. Dis
sipation of the immense quantity 
of power in the form of heat 
through the coils of the magnet 
presents a great problem.
Oil Cools Coils
Solution to the problem was 
found by an ingenious method of 
arranging the immense windings 
of copper coils (about % inch 
thick and five inches wide) to pro
vide space for 600 gallons per 
minute of oil to circulate and cool 
the coils. The oil will in turn be 
cooled by water. While a nearby 
pond will furnish some of this wa
ter, one well has already been 
drilled and another is contemplat
ed.
Arrival of the magnet coils, 
first scheduled for mid-December, 
but delayed because of the states 
refusal to permit use of its high
ways, will set back completion 
about three months.
Need Elbow Room
At the present time the eightfoot thick concrete protecting wall 
which will surround the cyclo
tron itself on all sides cannot be 
installed because of the elbow 
room that will be required to 
place the coils on the magnet 
when they arrive.
Concrete to be used in this pro
tective wall contains an aggregate 
made up solely of magnetite which 
gives it special high density, high 
strength, and radiation shielding 
qualities. When the wall is com
pleted it will have two doors in 
it which will give access to the 
level of the pole faces.
Solid Concrete Doors
The size and the ingenious con
struction of these doors is amaz
ing. Solid concrete, eight feet 
thick and six feet wide, they will 
be mounted on hydraulic lifts 
similar to those used for auto 
grease racks. Although they will 
weigh 50 tons, their controls will 
allow them to be raised and low
ered very rapidly. When the door 
drops down, the top of it will 
serve as the floor of the doorway 
into the cyclotron chamber.
Only other access to the cyclo
tron will be through a tunnel be
low the floor level. A series of 
sharp turns will act to prevent 
harmful radiations from escaping 
to endanger the operators in their 
remote control operating room.
This Is Just The Pole Tip!
Machining of the cyclotron pole tips nears completion. The 
tips, weighing 30 tons each, will be placed in position after the coils 
Are put in place.
Dr. Edward Creutz 
Heads Carnegie 
Cyclotron Project
Dr. Edward C. Creutz design
ed the Carnegie cyclotron and is in 
charge of the development of the 
research center at Saxonburg.
* * *
A little nuclear research car. 
go a long way, is the pleasant 
discovery made by Dr. Edward C. 
Creutz, director of the cyclotron 
project.
What started out as a modest 
inquiry into nucleonics and 
then became a small (by pres
ent standards) cyclotron, has be
come a project involving a num
ber of private, educational, and 
research interests and the con
struction of an awe-inspiring 400 
million electron volt synchro
cyclotron.
Dr. Creutz, who received his 
doctorate from the University of 
Wisconsin in 1939, came to Car
negie in 1946. Later that year a 
grant of $300,000 from the Buhl 
Foundation gave birth to hopes 
of building a cyclotron.
Soft-spoken and broad-shoul
dered, Dr. Creutz looks more like 
the classical All-American full
back than one of the nations out
standing nuclear physicists. Along 
with Dr. Frederick Seitz, physics 
department head, he worked for 
the government in the develop
ment of atomic energy during the war.
Recently the Pittsburgh Junior 
Chamber of Commerce awarded 
Dr. Creutz the title of Pittsburghs 
Man of the Year in Science. He 
is one of three Carnegie faculty 
members who have recently re
ceived awards of merit from the 
Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Now the cyclotron project is 
his baby and the vast load of 
making sure that no slip-ups mar 
the complex project is all his.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949
Tartans Capture Fourth In A Row
Paul Offermanns'
Steady Improvement In
Sportscone?idJewrk ^kes* Oberlin Win Possible
Last Saturday night Carnegies basketball team accomp
lished a feat that is unparalleled in Tartan floor history since 
the season of 1938-39. That was the year that the Plaid last 
won four games in a rowtaking West Virginia, Georgetown, 
Penn State, and Temple in stride on their march to the Eastern 
Intercollegiate basketball championship, the second one they 
captured in the seven-year existence of the league.
With the Pitt game on the card for this evening, it would 
probably be going overboard to predict the present streaks 
continuancethat is, on the past performances of the two teams 
against each other and against common opponents.
However, the Tartans present streak has given their 
fans more then a few winning games to cheer about. The 
best thing we got out of it was last Saturday night when 
teamwork was revived, and the players were fast break
ing down the court with a passing attack that had more 
polish than the Skibo gyms clientele has witnessed in many 
a year.
The fact that Mike Theodore was not required to shoulder 
the scoring burden is a clear indication that teamwork is back. 
During the past two seasons, Mike has always been either 
first or second in the scoring departmentusually first. Yet, 
against Oberlin, Mike had an off nightin the scoring col
umn only, but where he left off, Pete Katsenfanas, Jack Riehl, 
Joe Matsey, and Tom Beck took over.
The Tartans proceeded to unfold a passing attack that 
was beautiful to watch whether they followed it with a score 
or not. The result was that Carnegie had five potential scorers 
on the floor at all times, and no longer had t rely on one 
or two men.
If they can maintain this type of passing against Doc 
Carlsons ice cream eaters tonight, the Panthers had better 
abandon any ideas of double-teaming Theodore and start wor
rying about other scorers, Katsenfanas should be able to give 
some of Pitts contact men a few lessons in play under 
the boards.
With Carlsons deliberate style of play against Carnegies 
fast break, the game should be one of the better ones on the 
remaining court calendar. It calls for a good attendance from 
the Carnegie student body, needless to say.
Reporters Notebook
Intramural
Summary
Table Tennis Standings
SCOTS LEAGUEWonLostTheta Xi ..................................50Pi Kappa Alpha ....................41Tau Delta Phi ........................31Stanley Steamers ..................42Beta Sigma Rho ..........3Phi Kappa ................................14Alpha Tau Omega ..................14..........05
SKIBO LEAGUEWonLost..........40Beta Theta Pi ..........................30Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............10Kappa Sigma ..........................32Delta Upsilon ..........................12Sigma Nu ......................2Delta Tau Delta ..................13TNT ............................................02Dorm A ..............................03
Basketball Standings
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Kappa Sig. A .................................4Fr. Architects ...................................4Emanon A .......................................4Stanley Steamers ...........................3Betas 1 .........................................2Purple Raiders ...............................1
Oblisks ...............................................2Pi Kappa Alpha .............................1Sigma Nu ............................................1Beta Sigma Rho ...........................1Scobell Hall .....................................0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Theta Xi ..............................-.........4
TNT A ...............................................449-ers ........................................... 3Betas 2 .........................................2ASCE ...................................................2Phi Kappa A ...................................2Delts ...................................................2Billikins .......................................................... 1Kappa Sig B .....................................0FPHA .................................................0
NATIONAL LEAGUE
TNT B .................................................4Big Five .............................................3Delta Upsilon ...................................3Alpha Tau Omega .......................3Citcom ................................................3Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................3
Wildmen ..............................................1Dons ......................................................1Tau Delta Phi ..................................1Emanon B ..........................................0Phi Kappa B .................................0
Basketball Schedule
Today: Fr. Arch.Emanon "A; Purple RaidersScobell Hall; DragonsTNT A; BillikinsASCE; DonsTau Delts; 
WildmenSAE.Thursday: PiKASigma Nu; Kappa Sig AOblisks; DeltsTX; FPHA Kappa Sig B;DU; Phi Kappa B Citcom.Friday: Betas 1Emanon A; Stan. SteamersBeta Sig; TNT AFortyNiners: Phi Kappa A-Betas 2; ATO Tau Delts; Big 5TNT B.Monday: Fr. Arch.Sigma Nu; Purple RaidersKappa Sig A; Dragons TX; BillikinsFPHA; DonsDU WildmenPhi Kappa B.Tuesday: Scobell HallEmanon A; OblisksBeta Sig; ASCETNT A; Kappa Sig BBetas 2; SAETau Delts; CitcomTNT B.
TO MEET THE PUBLICS REQUIREMENTS
for telephone service, this company has spent 
more than $176,000,000 on new facilities dur
ing the last three years alone.
During the next few years, we shall have 
to invest many more millions to meet expand
ing needs.
Most of this moneythe lions sharecomes 
from people . . . from thousands of people in 
all walks of life who invest part of their sav
ings in Bell Telephone securities.
We must pay a fair return for the use of 
these dollars, of course. And we must keep 
them secure. They are as vital to the telephone 
business as the telephone business is vital to 
those who invest in it.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
Final Quarter Spree 
Upends Oberlin 63-59
Katsefanas, Rielil Top Scoring;
Risk Streak at Pitt Tonight, 8:30
Carnegies victory-happy Tartans rolled to their fourth con
secutive win last Saturday night, bumping a strong Oberlin quin
tet, 63-59, in a thrilling contest which saw the lead change hands 
16 times. The win gave Carnegie a season record of B wins in RB
?starts, their best record in ten
Track Team 
Begins Daily 
Conditioning
Halferty Asks For New 
Men To Turn Out, 
Especially In Weights
Preparing for the Junior and 
Senior AAU indoor meets at South 
Park on March 12 and April 2, 
track coach Guy Halferty is con
tinuing emphasis on conditioning 
as daily indoor and outdoor drills 
move into the second week.
On Friday afternoon at 4:30 
around the bottom of Flagstaff hill 
tryouts will be held with freshmen 
opposing upperclassmen in a mile 
run and a 1200-yard shuttle relay, 
each man running 300 yards.
Coach Halferty is very much 
interested in getting anyone out 
to practice who is interested in 
track. Sprinters and hurdlers are 
practicing daily in the gym, while 
the distance runners are working 
outside. Especially needed are 
weight  men. Coach Halferty 
would like to have the chance to 
talk to those who would like to 
learn to throw the javelin, discuss, 
or put the shot.
Phi Kaps Drop 
To Third As TX 
Wins Three
The most important match in 
the Strike league was bowled 
Sunday night when Theta Xi up
set Phi Kappa three times. The 
Theta Xis bowled twenty pins 
over their average while the Phi 
Kaps dropped seventy-five pins 
below theirs. Tritle of TX led 
his mates in the first game with 
a 206. The triple loss brought the 
Phi Kaps from first place, which 
they had held for four weeks, 
down to third place.
Emanon fell below its high 
average but was still able to 
whitewash SAE 3 to 0. Carey of 
Emanon had a hot afternoon 
as he averaged 191 pins per game.
Sigma No 1 rolled three high 
games to sweep PiKA 3 to 0. Pastrick of Sigma Nu came within 
one pin of the league record when 
he scored a 233. Yarian and John
son of PiKA had high games of 
211 and 199 respectively.
Bowling Results
SPARESEmanon .................3T Squares ..........0
Sigma Nu 1 ..3DU ..........................0
SAE .........................0Betas B ..............3PiKA ..............0Kappa Sig..............3STRIKESBeta Sig ................11 Tau Delts ................2Phi Kappa ........0| TX ...........................3
Bowling Standings
SPARES LEAGUE Won LostSigma Nu 1 ........................17 1Emanon .....................................13 2PiKA .............................................10 8DU ................................................ 7 8SAE .............................................. 6 9Betas B ................................ 7 11
Kappa Sig .................................. 6 12T Squares .................................. 0 15STRIKES LEAGUE Won LostTheta Xi .....................................15 3Delts .............................................. 9 3Phi Kap .......................................10 5Tau Delts .................................... 9 6Citcom ........................................ 7 8Betas A .................................. 5 7
ATO .............................................. 3 12Sigma Nu 2 ........................ 1 8
Beta Sig .................................... 1 14
years.
Pete Katsefanas and Jack Riehl, 
with 19 and 15 points respective
ly, led a fast-breaking and 
smooth-passing Tartan assault 
that overcame a two-point halftime deficit and went on to win 
in the final minutes.
Yeomen Shoot Straight
A 50% shooting average, by the 
Yeomen in the first half was the 
only thing that kept them in the 
game as officials Dick Phillips and 
Tut Melman started to call them 
tight, mostly in favor of Car
negie.
Rangy Charlie Blackwell, one 
of the smoothest-travelling ball
players to appear here this year, 
and Bob Shults, as set-shot wizard, 
led the Yeomen at a torrid pace 
for the first half before falling 
off to only a 35% average in 
the second half.
Blackwell Goes Out #
Blackwell was one of the Ober
lin starters to feel the sting of 
the officials whistle, going out on 
five personal fouls in the third 
quarter. Sid Ward, a good board 
man and a double-figure scorer 
was the other Yeomen benched 
by Phillips.
The Plaid used a fast break at 
every opportunity they had, and 
used whip-like passing that daz
zled the crowd. Katsefanas. in his 
rebounding efforts was being 
roughed under the boards, and as 
a result was awarded fifteen 
throws from the charity line, con
verting nine.
Use Only Seven
Both Tom Beck and Mike The
odore scored three buckets in 
the first half, but were blanked 
from the field during the second 
half. Jack Riehl and Joe Matsey 
came along to assist Katsefanas in 
the second half, Riehl throwing in 
a brace of set shots in the final 
two minutes to send the Skibos 
forging into the lead.
Coach Bill Donohoe used only 
seven men in the game, the start
ing five taking care of all the 
scoring.
Tonight at 8:30 p. m. at the Pitt 
stadium basketball court the Ski
bos will clash with Doc Carlsons 
Pitt Panthers. In their first meet
ing of the season, Pitt chalked up 
a 48-43 victory.
T 
H 
E
C L 
Oc
K
PYYV nNU83 F20cKeN
Try Vs Soon 
Morn, Night, or Noon
The Clock
3814 Forbes St.

---------------------------------------------------

gLy ,nChyl kFny6, wCs F 
A.nXys Cw SyFs, FAlH
g hACp 4Cp ng6l kFny6, 
FsyH g nFly i4y ng6lAy,, 
iy,i F 6CAP igny FPCG
NOT ONE SINGLE CASE 
OF THROAT IRRITATION
COARSTTES
py66d 1C4AA% ,gAky g isgyl 
i4y 30*DAy ng6lAy,, iy,id 
kFny6, Fsy nS kgPFsyiiyd 
iCCH kFny6, Fsy ,C ng6l 
uFAl ,C FULL w6FLCsylG
Smoke Camels and test them in your own 
"T-Zone. T for taste, T for throat. If, at any time, you are not convinced that 
are the mildest cigarette you ever smoked, return the package with the unused 
and we will refund its full purchase price, 
plus postage. (Signed) R. J. Reynolds To
bacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Off to the Races
Action below is in the Fresh
man Architects-Scobell hall game 
last Friday night in which the 
Architects went on a scoring spree 
to win 113-34 and maintain their 
first place tie with Kappa Sigma 
A" in the red-hot American 
league scramble.
TNTs handed Betas No. 2 team 
its first defeat 30-28, and then 
walloped FPHA 63-18, Rafferty 
scoring 18 points for the winners.
Previously unbeaten ASCE had 
their hopes dashed by the Delts 
who edged them, 23-21.
Plaid Swimmers Drop Another 
Close MeetTo Allegheny 34-32
Carnegies swimming team led all the way before bowing to 
Allegheny in a dual swimming meet held at Meadville last Saturday. 
The score was 34-32.
The high spot of the match was the 300 yard relay event where 
the Plaid entry of Molny, Luckey ,? 
and Sapper broke the school rec
ord and also clipped two and onehalf seconds off the pool record, 
finishing in 3:13.4. This marked 
the second time this year that the 
school record has been broken. 
The Allegheny swimmers also 
broke their own pool record, 
showing the keen competition in 
this event.
Three More Firsts 
Tartan mermen placed first in 
three other matches. Luckey took 
the 200 yard breast stroke, Demas 
placed first in the 100 yard free 
style, and Eichholtz took the 60 
yard dash. Luckey was individual 
high scorer for the team with 7 
points.
Sayre was outstanding for Alle
gheny, placing first in the 220 and 
440 yard free style events and tak
ing anchor position on the meetdeciding 400 yard relay run.
All Matches Close
It is noteworthy that the Skibo 
swimming team has not been de
cisively defeated this year, with 
no loss actually being determined 
the end of the final event.
The next scheduled meet is at 
Westminster this coming Satur
day. 'The Penn-Ohio meet to be5'
WAA Basketball 
Team Meets Mt. 
Mercy Tomorrow
Mount Mercy college will be the 
host for the second intramural 
game of the Womens Athletic as
sociation basketball team. The 
game will be played tomorrow, 
at 8:00 p. m.
All girls interested in playing 
basketball are welcome to attend 
the practices, which are held in 
the girls gym on Mondays, Wed
nesdays, and Thursdays at 4:30 
p. m.
held in the Tartan pool March 5 
will close out the season.
Summary:
300-yard Medley RelayWon by Carnegie (Molny, Luckey, and Sapper). Time 3:13.4.220-yard Free StyleWon by Sayre. Allegheny; Macey, Carnegie, second; Schlitt, Allegheny, third. Time 2:32.4.60-yard Free StyleWon by Eichholtz, Carnegie; Byham, Allegheny, second; Demas. Carnegie, third. Time 
:31.8.100-yard Free StyleWon by Demas, Carnegie; Smith, Allegheny, second; Byham, Allegheny, third. Time :59.150-yard Back StrokeWon by Zuberbuhler, Allegheny; Molny, Carnegie, second; Schenk, Allegheny, third. Time 1:48.5.200-yard Breast StrokeWon by Luckey, Carnegie; Baum, Allegheny, second; Zoller, , Carnegie, third. Time 
2:37.4.440-yard Free StyleWon by Sayre, Allegheny; Macy, Carnegie, second; Freeman, Carnegie, third. Time 5:43.1.400-yard RelayWon by Allegheny (Smith, Rigley, Byham, and Sayre). Time 3:56.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
nK8b ,fUbN3 
XKv grN kmNUe kY2N3 
h8Y2VKbN3 
iU3c0 692rfN3
ifmNN ,cYmN3 g2 cfN kY88NvN 
lK3cmKrc
o5O5 wYmqN3 ,cmUKc ,W9KmmN8 4K88 
EBR wYmqN3 ,cmNNc CUb8U2V 
nUK2 8U2c3 
EE5O XY98N!UmV Y cfN F88KN3
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949 * THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Basketball Results
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Beta Sig29Scobell Hall26Kappa Sig A31Emanon A29
Fr. Arch.40Betas 134
Oblisks33Purple Raiders29
PiKA54Scobell Hall27
Kappa Sig A59Sigma Nu23Stan. Steamers44Oblisks31
Emanon A39Beta Sig17
Fr. Arch.13Scobell Hall34FEDERAL LEAGUE
TNT A63FPHA18Forty-Niners23Dragons18
Kappa Sig B32Billikins24
Delts23ASCE21
TX39FPHA19
Phi Kappa A53Kappa Sig B24
TNT A30Betas 2"28
ASCE29Dragons18
Billikins34Delts33NATIONAL LEAGUE
TNT B53Phi Kappa B19
Tau Delts32Dons26
ATO29Wildmen15
Citcom29Emanon B32
SAE47Phi Kappa B15
DU39Citcom20
Big 530Tau Delts21
TNT B84Dons17
SAE40Emanon B29
Emanon A, 31-29 and Sigma Nu 
59-23. Motter paced the winners 
in both games with 17 and 18 
points.
The National league found the 
Big Five and the TNT B teams 
making a runaway of the league. 
After walking all over SAE, 53-30, 
theTNTs obliterated the Tau 
Delts 84-21. In this game Tasso 
Katselas set an IM individual 
scoring record by dumping 51 
points through the hoop.
In their only game, the Big Five 
turned back Citcom 30-20, but had
a fight on their 
lishing a fourth period lead.
The Federal league has Theta 
Xi and the TNT A team at its 
front with identical records of 
4-0. The TXs lone game was a 
39-19 victory over FPHA. The
Ne w Scoring Records Set 
As IM Cage Races Continue
Scoring records fell by the wayside as six intramural basketball 
teams, two in each league, remained undefeated in quest of their 
league championships.
In the American league, the Freshmen Architects and Kappa 
Sig A teams each chalked up two victories during the week to remain 
in a deadlock for first place with 
records of 4-0. The Architects 
handed the Betas No. 1 team their 
second loss of the season, 40-34 
and then they set an IM scoring 
record by lambasting Scobell hall 
113-34. Thompson, Burt, and Reck 
paced this record scoring with 
36, 33, and 26 points respectively.
The Kappa Sigs two victories 
came over previously unbeaten

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949
Council Approves Of 
Reorganization Report
Reports Cites Four Major Problems;
Proposes Rearrangement of Council
Student Council last week uneasily took its eyes off the coming 
election to approve the reorganization report of Councilmen Fockler 
and Hall. This report cites four major problems and solutions through 
a reaarrangement of the Council structure.
Besides the presentation and discussion of the reorganization 
little new business ?------------------------------------------------plans, very 
was brought before the governing 
body. Committee reports were 
heard; the constitution of the 
Campus Squares, a new organ
ization to sponsor square dancing, 
was approved; and Mortar Board 
was given the go ahead for 
planning the senior ball.
New Committees
Two new committees, an Execu
tive committee and a Plans and 
Programs committee, were pro
posed in the reorganization pro
gram. The president, vice-presi
dent, and another mfember of 
Council will comprise the execu
tive committee. The duty of the 
committee will be to prepare an 
advanced agenda for Council so 
that all members can familiarize 
themselves with the issues to be 
presented at the next meeting 
Along with the announcement of 
any new business, the committee 
is responsible for a resume of the 
pro and cons of the issue.
Acting as campus trouble 
shooters, the Plans and Programs 
committee will keep abreast of 
campus trends and problems in 
an attempt to prevent the flare up 
of troublesome situations. The 
committee will report to Council 
whenever necessary and present 
the problems and possible solu
tions.
Written Reports
Bickering and confusion that 
wasted much of Councils time last 
semester prompted Hall and Fock
ler to suggest that all committees 
be of bi-partisan membership and 
that written reports be presented 
by them.
As an aid to better budget inEXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
RODGER'S 
DAIRY .
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
6FsPy ng6h ,4Fhy,
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
CUKm0 ,cYmN3
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Other stores downtown
formation, the report suggested 
that two assistants be appointed 
to the budget chairman. In the 
discussion that followed, however, 
many of the councilmen thought 
that this would not be necessary.
Council voted to pass the re
port on to Councilman Meyers and 
his Constitution committee to in
corporate in the constitution. Al
though Mr. Meyers commended 
the committee on their work he 
intimates that changes will prob
ably be made before the reports 
proposals become part of the re
vised constitution.
B. Iden Payne 
To Direct Here
Will Present 6She 
Stoops To Conquer
Carnegies drama departments 
annual E. Iden Payne production 
is one of the highlights of the 
year in. the Carnegie Theater. Mr. 
Paynes successes in the theater 
are legendary.
He has directed the Shakespere Stratford Memorial on the 
Avon for a number of years, his 
most recent New York production 
was A Winters Tale, and at 
present he is with the drama de
partment of the University of 
Texas. His association with the 
CIT drama department is almost 
as old as the department.
Breaking away from his tradi
tion of doing a Shakesperian pro
duction, Mr. Payne this year will 
do Olivers Goldsmiths She 
Stoops To Conquer. From all in
dications it will prove to be one 
of the Carnegie theaters most in
teresting offerings of the year.
Statements
[Continued from Page 2] 
program I shall be impartial to 
all factions, and shall do my best 
for the general welfare of the stu
dent body.
Thomas J. Hall: In order to 
give Tech a more efficient and 
representative Student Council, I 
have been working on the reor
ganization of certain parts of 
council procedure, and I would 
like to continue my work onthis 
very important project. My rec
ord in Council shows that I have 
performed my duties conscienti
ously and ably during my past 
term. For these reasons, I am 
seeking electioA to the unexpired 
term in Student Council.
Fred Lunt: Both the lack of in
terest of the commuting students 
and the woefully poor inter-col
legiate program have been major 
problems for many years here at 
CIT. It is time they were solved 
and if elected I intend to do ev
erything in my power to correct 
these undesirable situations.
The athletic situation could be 
improved through a closer under
standing between the administra
tion and the student body. The at
tainment of this understanding 
should be the job of Council.
Fine Arts
Janice Seiner: If I am elected 
as a representative of the Fine 
Arts school on Student Council, I 
will try to activate the interests 
of the students in Fine Arts in 
formulating all school policy. 
Furthermore I would like to rep
resent the true purposes of the 
Beaux Arts Society and other 
groups in Fine Arts in order to 
have the engineers, Margaret 
Morrison, and Arts students more 
united in affairs of school-wide 
interest.
4\Jinard Studio
Fine Portraitures
FDD8KrUcKY2 DmK2c3 U2V 
DfYcY3cUc3 K2 U f9mm0
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room 41S
Luckies fine tobacco picks you 
up when youre low    calms 
you down when youre tense!
Luckies fine tobacco puts you on the right levelthe Lucky
levelto feel your level best, do your level best.
Thats why its important to remember that Lucky Strike 
Means Fine Tobaccomild, ripe, light tobacco that makes a 
thoroughly enjoyable smoke. No wonder more independent tobacco 
NaDNmc3-auctioneers, buyers and. warehousemensmoke Lucky 
Strike regularly than smoke the next two leading brands combined.
Light up a Lucky! Luckies fine tobacco picks you up when youre 
low, calms you down when youre tense. So get on the Lucky level 
where its fun to be alive. Get a carton and get started today!
kCsHK i4y FnysgkFA iCXFkkC kCnFAS
lucky Stu&e Afeano Fine 7acca

---------------------------------------------------

Co-editors ................
Associate Editor .... 
Circulation Manager
Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelich
........................Raymond Schwalm
................................ George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
Views
After a lean first edition (this 
semester) the editors have again 
found the necessary space for our 
column; consequently here we are 
back at our old stand hawking 
evening school news.
In case you havent received a 
card, seen the posters on the bul
letin board, or been approached 
by a council member, Councils 
Pre-Lenten dance is to be held 
this Saturday, February 26, at 
Thistle hall. The ante will be $2.00 
per couple, so make every possible 
effort to be there. Most evening 
students fail to realize that a few 
of their group go through much 
trouble to plan these affairs for 
them, so show your appreciation 
by attending this dance.
The general consensus of opin
ion on evening campus (now-anevening) is that class room in
struction is improving and they 
also agree that it wont be too 
long before we again have the 
high calibre of instruction that 
prevailed before the war.
Incidentally, just in case you 
may be interested, square dance 
instructions are to be given at 
Thistle Hall for all Carnegie Tech 
students. The next session will be 
held March 5 and every Satur
day evening thereafter. So in case 
you care to brush up on your 
Doesee does, elbow swings,
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
F.i4yAigk k4gAy,y lg,4y,
also
FnysgkFA lg,4y, ,ysLylksg,ysd k6yFAys 
lsFpgAP,HHH 93N
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If Youre Particular, See theiyk4 XFsXys ,4C
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
the worlds largest selling
lsFpgAP yAkg6,Hospitality That All 
America UnderstandsA Few Steps 
Saves You Dollars
3811 Fifth Ave
SAVE TIME \ \ 
SAVE CARFARE!!
One Hour Rough-Dry 
LAUNDRY SERVICE
FOR THIS HELPFUL 
INSTRUCTION BOOKLET!
Try Venus on your 
drawing board! F
These Are Our Prices:
1 Washing up to 9 lbs,
Drying ............................
Soap................................
Blueing ............................
Bleach..............................
Send 25c. for Sketching 
with Venus ... 24 pages 
of valuable illustrated in
struction. Also you get at 
no extra cost a Technical 
Test Kit, featuring 2 Venus 
Drawing Pencils.
Clutcheruice t
You dont have to take your laundry 
elsewhere and wait until it is washed. 
WE DO IT FOR YOU without addi
tional charge. We can have it ready 
wheneveh it is most convenient for you. 
Just bring it in and call for it. Give 
us a trial.
American Pencil Company, Hoboken, New Jersey
makers of famous Venus Pens
American Lead Pencil Co.
Hoboken, N. J.
y2r8Y3NV K3 7or Ym e0 rYD0 Y ',bNcrfK2v 
wKcf LN293"-U2V cfN iNrf2KrU8 iN3c hKc 
wKcf 7 LN293 lmUwK2v N2rK83H
AUeN___HHHHHH ________________
Ask for it either way ... both pius ^
trade-marks mean the same thing. State Ta
XCii6yl .Alys F.i4CsgiS Cw i4y kCkFukC6F kCnFAS XS 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.4609 Forbes St. 
3-HOUR CLEANERS
I Address
 R99d ifN kYrUukY8U kYeDU20
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
News
And
Registration Figures Reveal 
Drop In Evening Enrollment

---------------------------------------------------

mzm
laAcAcy mcnoAie
KRAMER says../'Because theyre MILDER 
Chesterfields taste better all the way. 
Its MY cigarette/'
JACK
;J itocm * *Yt?c TOBACCO co.
kfN3cNmKN8V 3UcK3KN3
qNrU93N Kc 3 ng6lysH 6I
Kc 3 nS rKvUmNccN
STARRING iN
ONE SUNDAY AFTERNOON
A WARNER BROS. PRODUCTION
COLOR BY TECHNICOLOR
kY%fca 190, Ixarrt I nmT RtsnnE kI
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN ______ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1949
The Bulletin Board
Religious Week
Religious Emphasis week is 
scheduled to begin on the Car
negie campus on March 6. The 
general topic will be How do we 
determine right conduct? Twen
ty-eight organizations will par
ticipate in the program, including 
the fraternities, sororities, dormi
tory groups, and various religious 
groups.
Fraternities will hold their dis
cussions at their respective chap
ter houses, except for Beta Sigma 
Rho, Phi Kappa, and Sigma Nu, 
which will have simultaneous 
talks at Carnegie Union. Each 
group, however, will have its own 
speaker. Sororities have scheduled 
their speakers for March 9 at the 
Union.
Six of the organizations have
not yet announced their speakers, 
but will have made their decision 
by next week.
Dorm Dance
Dorm Council will hold a spring 
dance on Friday March 4 at the 
University club. The dance will 
be informal and admission is free 
to all dorm men.
Benny Benack and his orchestra 
will furnish the music.
SAM Meeting
Fridays SAM speaker will be 
William Whigham, Jr., a staff as
sistant in the Industrial Relations 
division of Carnegie-Illinois. His 
topic will be Management Align
ment.
SAMs newly elected officers
are: Ames Penfield, president;
Robert Crossman, vrce-president; 
John McDonald, recording secre
tary; Raymond McMann, corre
sponding seceretary; and Frank 
Procz, treasurer. A publicity 
committee will be appointed by 
the president.
ASG Officers
The new officers of the Archi
tectural Student group are: presi
dent, Tom Madden; vice-presi
dent, Arthur Silver; secretary, 
Anita Cole; and treasurer, Dave 
Moyer.
Metals Club
CITs Metals Club will hold its 
monthly social meeting today. The 
speaker will be C. Ernest Birchenall, of the Metals Research staff.
wick and Robert McKelvey, neg
ative, will represent CIT at the 
tournament where the national 
debate topic will be discussed.
CIT women's ana men's teams 
debated with Mount Mercy on 
February 19 in a non-decision 
tournament. The University of 
Pennsylvania met Carnegies de
bate team in a non-decision de
bate held February 8.
Debate Teams
Carnegie Tech debaters will 
participate in the Washington and 
Jefferson second annual debate 
tournament to be held February 
25 and 26.
Two mens tams, Joseph McCandless and Joseph Schuckert, 
affirmative, and Thomas Sedg3734
Every Nite This Week  . 
PATTI PAGE
Mercury Record's Newest 
Singing Sensation
ATIantic 3734
