The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 21 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1943
Shakesperian Play Thirty-Eight Colleges Dr. Bisbee, Near East Authority, 
To Open March 13 ^^c^ferenc^Here Speaks Today On Turkish Situation
Romeo and Juliet, this years Shakes
perian production, will open next Satur
day night in the Little theater of the Col
lege of Fine Arts. Reproductions of an 
original Elizabethan theater and cos
tumes of that era will be used for this 
play. The play is being directed by B. 
Iden Payne who has come to Tech di
rectly from England. Mr. Payne, for
merly the head of the Tech Drama De
partment, is a recognized authority on 
the Elizabethan stage and costumes. He 
has lived for many years at Stratford-onAvon, the birthplace of Shakespeare.
Practically all of the members of the 
Drama Department are working on this 
production in some capacity. In addition 
to the cast of about sixty-five, students 
will perform such important tasks as 
lighting, building, painting, and manag
ing the production.
Costumes for this play are being de
signed by the members of the advanced 
costume class. Student designers are 
Michael Sivy, Richard Hare, Robert Stev
enson, and Jane Pursch. In addition to 
the efforts of these students, costumes 
will be procured from the famous Rael 
collection which is owned by the De
partment of Drama.
Tickets will be available in about a 
week, and the play will run from March 
13 until March 27. The principal members 
of the cast are as follows:
Romeo .........................................................
... .William Myers and Manuel Rubin
Juliet ..........................................................
. .Jackie Vlaskamp and Patricia Walker
Lady Capulet .............................................
... .Jane Llyod-Jones and Ruth Fisher
Mercutio___Michael Sivy and Joe Dolin
Benvolio .....................................................
..........Richard Hare and Clark Marlor
Tybalt.. .Norman Apell and James Boyce
Peter.......... Fred Rein and Ernest Motyl
Nurse. _____Rye Trier and Cecile Strober
Paris..........E. Edmonds and Robert Parks
Revision of Air Raid 
Precautions Announced
On February 17, 1943, the new regu
lations regarding Air-Raid Alerts became 
effective.
The new system is as follows:
Air Raid Blue
Signaltwo minute steady b last of siren;
a get-ready signal.
Actionmembers of the Defense Staff 
(Air Raid Wardens, First Aid, etc.) 
who are not in class should report to 
their stations.
Dayno one should go to a shelter zone 
except the assigned members of the 
Defense Staff.
Nightas many lights as is practicable 
will be extinguished on this signal. Ten 
minutes after the Sfrens sound, a signal 
flash will be given all light circuits, 
indicating that in #ve^ minutes all lights 
will go out. ALL JtJiRSONS ARE TO 
GO TO A SHELTER ZONE AFTER 
THE FLASH SIGNAL.
Air Raid Red
Signal  two minute INTERMITTENT 
blast of sirens and ringing of class 
room bells.
Action
DayEVERYONE IS TO GO TO A 
SHELTER ZONE.
NightCOMPLETE BLACKOUT.
Air Raid Blue
Signaltwo minutes continuous blast of 
sirens and ringing of class room bells. 
Actionall persons resume their regu
lar duties whether the Alert is during 
the day or night. If the Alert is at night 
the partial black-out will continue un
til the All-Clear signal is received 
over the telephone.
The new system thus involves little 
change in the procedure which has been 
in use on the campus. During the day, 
the signal for seeking shelter will conContinued on Page 4
The Carnegie Tech Y. M. C. A. and
C. W. C. A. will be host to the Annual 
Western Conference of the Student 
Christian Movement of the Middle At
lantic Region during the weekend of 
March 5, 6, and 7, 1943. Thirty-eight 
colleges will be represented at this an
nual mid-year conference, which is usual
ly held at Bank Hills Falls, but will be 
held this year at the Carnegie Union, due 
to transportation difficulties.
The Conference theme is What Is 
Worth While? The members will dis
cuss what values our decisions shall be 
based upon in a time of change. Con
ference leader, Dr. William R. Farmer, 
chaplain of the University of Pittsburgh, 
will deliver the main address. Among the 
other leaders will be Dr. Edmond Kase of 
Grove City College, Dr. Clarence Yar
row of Allegheny College, and Miss Pat 
Sleezer of West Virginia University.
The program for the weekend is:
Friday Evening
Registration from 7:00 to 7:30.
Dr. FarmerWhat is Worth While? 
Saturday
Discussion Groups on What Is Worth 
While?
Question periods with Dr. Farmer.
Recreationfolk dancing, games, tours 
of Tech Campus.
Panel of Conference Leaders, led by 
Dr. Farmer.
Sunday
_ Sunday Breakfast.__
~~ Communion in ffefriz Chapel, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
Large Donation Made 
For Scholarship Fund
A gift of $26,667.00 has been made to 
Carnegie Institute of Technology by the 
Etched Products Corporation of New 
York for the purpose of maintaining two 
scholarships at the Institute.
The gift was made at the bequest of 
Albert Nierenberg, President of the Cor
poration ,who is now on active duty as a 
Captain in the Air Corps of the United 
States Army. His son, Ted Nierenberg, 
who left the campus recently to enter the 
Air Corps, was active in undergraduate 
affairs, serving as business manager of 
the TARTAN.
A fathers appreciation of the training 
received by his son, coupled with a de
sire to recognize the contributions of 
Carnegie Tech to the war effort, prompt
ed the establishment of the scholarship 
funds.
In transmitting the gift, the following 
letter was written by S. T. Nierenberg, 
Treasurer of the Etched Products Cor
poration:
In recognition of the magnificent 
scientific research carried on by your in
stitution and the extraordinary effort ex
erted toward the War Effort, the Board of 
Directors of the undersigned corporation 
has issued the enclosed check to be ap
plied toward the Scholarship Fund of 
your Institution. We understand that 
the proceeds of the enclosed check are 
equivalent to the cost of maintaining two 
Scholarship Funds.
On March 2, 1943, Dr. Eleanor Bisbee, 
recently of Robert College in Istanbul, 
Turkey, will address the student assem
bly in the Little Theatre of the College 
of Fine Arts on Turkey in the Path of 
the War. Director Hotchkiss will pre
side and introduce the speaker.
Dr. Bisbee has lived in Turkey for six 
years, three of them war years. To quote 
from a commentary in the Tufts Weekly 
(Tufts College, Massachusetts) on a talk 
she gave about Russia: There is nothing 
about Dr. Bisbee which smacks of the 
Cooks-tourist sort of traveler. A news
paperwoman before she captured a Ph.D. 
from the University of Cincinnati, she 
brings the reportorial approach to her 
lecturing and punctuates the more serious 
material she presents with humorous 
asides, which makes her a thoroughly 
enjoyable and informative speaker.
Among the small nations, Turkey has 
been the most potentially helpful and 
hence most wanted as an ally by both 
sides in this war. By sheer genius in 
diplomacy she has kept out of the war. 
The fighting forces of the Allies and 
of the Axis have detoured around her 
again and again. Today, the maps of 
arm-chair strategists have black arrows 
of offense drawn across Turkey. Many 
of these strategists do not hesitate to 
point out that Turkey affords the best 
route of invasion for an Allied force 
striking at the soft underside of con
quered Europe. Others have pointed out 
for some time that Turkey affords the 
best land -route for an Axis invasion of 
the Near East, and a joining of forces 
with the Japanese in the Orient.
Much of the discussion of Allied and 
Axis plans regarding the part they wish 
Turkey to play in their respective war 
plans carries an air of unreality in that 
it is discussion lacking a true under
standing of what Turkey has been, is, 
and wants to be. In other words, the 
armchair strategists too often are guilty 
of reasoning about Turkey from the 
point of view of an outsider not too well 
informed about Turkish history and 
Turkish aims.
In her talk to Carnegie students, Dr. 
Bisbee will present Turkeys peculiar sit
uation from the viewpoint of a resident, 
not merely as a traveler. Her lecture 
should contribute greatly to clarification 
of Turkeys position, and to a sounder 
comprehension of the European and 
Mediterranean theaters of war.
In the light of these facts, it is sig
nificant that Tech students will have an 
opportunity, at student assembly on 
March 2, to learn something of the im
portant facts that can be gathered only 
from inside Turkey.
Navy To Accept Group 
Of Jr. and Sr. Engineers
Under a new plan just inaugurated, the 
Naval Officer Procurement Office is now 
permited to accept a limited number of 
junior and senior students enrolled in 
accredited colleges who are pursuing (1) 
engineering courses or (2) courses lead
ing to a Bachelor degree with a major in 
physics, naval architecture, mathematics 
or electronics.
For this special classification the phys
ical requirements have been relaxed so 
that the Navy will accept vision as low 
as 8/20 in each eye, if it is correctable 
to 20/20.
Any juniors and seniors, not enrolled 
in an armed service program, who are in
terested in this program should see Mr. 
Wangeman, Bureau of Placements, 1-155, 
as soon as possible.
Tradition Shattered; Girl Cheerleaders Appear
Photo by Lewis Klein
Here they are! Our new Co-ed cheerleading squad, all ready to roll with the 
student bodies help. They are, left to right, J. Updike, J. OBrien, P. McCullough, 
A. Etkes, R. Hansen, R. Tidd, R. Beans and J. Braden.
By Asher Etkes
Rosie is a riveter, Beulah left the farm, 
and even Mary decided that making 
B-19s was more exciting than just being 
nineteen! Therefore, why shouldnt Pat 
and Ruth crash that strictly masculine 
Carnegie Tech profession of cheerlead
ing? Why not? you ask. And from the 
throng there is no word of disagreement.
After a delay of 35 years, Josephine 
college has become a cheerleader. Pat 
and Ruth had their coming out party last 
Wednesday, during the W. & J. mas
sacre. It left us wondering whether their 
appearance overwhelmed the crowd and 
left them speechless, or whether no mat
ter what happens, our boys and girls will 
never learn the elementary Institute or 
the Skibo.
To appease Brother Joe and satisfy the 
curious folk about this sensational in
novation, we relate this story: A long, 
long time ago, ooops, s-o-o-o-r-r-y, a few 
weeks ago, Techs cheerleaders and Don 
French, Sports Editor of the TARTAN, 
laid down their battle plans. The first
engagement was won as Mrs. Yon was 
interviewed and gave her permission. 
Buddy Overend was then approached. His 
full co-operation was promised before 
they uttered the fifth syllable.
Voila! Tech has girl cheerleaders. The 
only thing lacking was the girls. A man
hunt, no thats wrong, change it, just a 
hunt was started, and a few ambitious 
lassies were landed. El Capitan Bra
den showed up in full regalia for the 
first momentous practice. The gals went 
for it in a big way; in fact come to think 
of it, they just went, as only one of the 
enthusiasts was present for the second 
practice. But when A1 The Institute 
Minetti showed up to choose the lucky 
ones, four were given the honors, and the 
two upperclassmen made the grade for 
the W. & J. game.
With this all-star cast you should 
have no trouble giving your vocal chords 
a good work out at our next and last 
home game with Geneva, on Saturday, 
the sixth of March.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1943
Anmaluusi ---------------------------------------
To Be or Not To Be
One of Spring Carnival's most enjoyable events has always been the annual 
Scotch and Soda show. This year, however, the campus cannot look forward 
to this all-student production. For some obscure reason which we cant under
stand the Scotch and Soda club has decided to sit around on their well-uphols
tered complacencies and to forget about a production this year.
The reason we cant understand Scotch and Sodas attitude is that there 
is plenty of talent among the freshmen, sophomores and juniors; these under
classmen want to put on a show; there is plenty of money$1,600 in the S. and
S. account; there are a number of scripts already available; and the campus 
enjoy and wants Scotch and Soda shows.
We suggest that Scotch and Soda produce a show for Spring Carnival, 
and predict that if they dont produce some sort of show that it will mean the 
end of the Scotch and Soda club. If this is the end, it will be the direct fault 
of the present officers of the organization. They have shown an amazing dogin-the-manger attitude, coupled with a colossal lack of interest, laziness and 
inefficiency. They have held a grand total of three meetings all yearmeet
ings, entirely void of any parliamentary procedure.
The officers of Scotch and Soda should either produce of quit entirely.
P. S.If and when you quit, we suggest that you invest that sixteen hun
dred bucks in War Bonds.
Activity or Lethargy?
In the first two weeks of the drive for books for men in the armed services, 
less than 250 books were collected. If each of these books were contributed 
by a different student or member of the faculty, then the results of this drive 
relate a story which we have been hearing not infrequently these days. Less 
than one out of ten persons at Carnegie believes that it is worth going out of 
one  way to win a war.
Books for our soldiers will not win the war! No, nor will blood dona
tions, scrap collections, or penny drives; it is the conglomeration of all these 
things backed by an energetic, ambitious, unselfish nation that will win. The 
book, drive at Carnegie is a very minute part of this conglomeration, and the 
outcome recapitulates the outcome of every venture to aid the war effort we 
have had at this school. Why is this so?
is it because, in the case of the book drive, students are inclined to forget 
to bring books they have set aside for this purpose when they leave home? 
Is it because they are too apathetic to be   bothered  ? Is it because engineers, 
who comprise the major portion of the student body, do not read other than 
steam tables and handbooks, or is it because they do not consider it an im
portant enough matter! Surely, it cannot be said that the drive has not been 
publicized sufficiently. The SWAC working hand in hand with the P. & D. 
Department has pinned catchy posters and slogans on every bulletin board 
and has placed as many collection boxes at conveniently located places on 
campus.
Indeed, if the engineering student has not been made to realize even a 
little his responsibility to society, then our Social Relations course has failed 
utterly in its main purpose, and we will cast aside our pen in dismay. But the 
fact that worthwhile results can be accomplished with a little effort is clearly 
shown by the cases where one student went from room to room in his frater
nity house and collected sixty books, and one girl did likewise in her dormi
tory and collected thirty books. The ironical aspect of the entire situation is 
that the male students at Carnegie Tech comprise a group which will receive 
a maximum benefit from such a drive. Do students have to be hit on the head, 
as in the case of the blood donor campaign, before they will be moved to aid 
such a worthwhile effort?
It is not too late, however, for the students to cast these words back in 
our teeth, for the book campaign will continue for as long as is feasible. We 
are almost ashamed to admit that our quota is only one book per student. 
Come on, you Techites, nows the time to show your true blue. M. D. N.
... Council Minutes .. .
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 next week, 
p. m., February 23, 1943. Motion carried.
Absent: Messrs. Dolan, La vie, Lindgren, Mr. Jones moved that Council approve 
and Thompson. the petition from the O. D. K. Society for
COMMITTEE REPORTS March 26, which date will also be for
Budget Sing and Swing.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the revised Motion carried, 
budget from the Delta Skull Society be Mr. Jones said that since the new Conapproved. stitution of Student Council required it,
Motion Carried. he felt that the Treasurer of Student
NEW BUSINESS Council should give a monthly report.
Mr. Whiteside presented the constituAdjournment, 
tion of the Carnegie Chapter of the UnitRespectfully submitted,
ed States Naval Reserve Corps. He movELIZABETH BEALL,
ed that this constitution be tabled until  Secretary.
Opinion* expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The C arnegie Tartan
Crnegte Institute of Technology. Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PRONE MAYFLOWER 20M PHONE SCHENLEY 455?
OCMUtNTIO row NATIONAL ADVtNTIMNfl BY __ _ -
lnc ,^fflce. Hours.Can sc. 988,
*20 Madison avi. ncw yo*k. n. y. Business Manager.................................BR. 4759
Ciiexe  Bostoh  Los etas  Sum rAcisco___________________________________________________________
Eatered aa second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870.
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
___________________________________________Subscription Price tl.10 per year.______________________________________
Fditor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Butinest Manager............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor........................................................................................................Jeanne King
On the Campus
On the Campus is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be
fore publication.
Financial Aid Available!
Carnegie Tech or Government scholar
ships and loan applications for students 
returning in May or August are now 
available in the Financial Aid office, I. H. 
246. They must be returned by April 1, 
to insure prompt consideration; inter
ested students should see Dean Murphy 
as soon as possible.
Program Committee Open?
Spring Carnival chairman, Chuck 
Jones, announces that program commit
tees are now being formed for the dance. 
Students interested in participating are 
cordially invited to drop a note (address
ed to the chairman) to that effect in the 
inter-school mail.
Science Honorary Holds Round Table 
Discussion
The C. I. T. Chapter of the Sigma Xi 
presents a General Science Colloquium 
Tuesday, March 2, at 11:30 A. M., in the 
Faculty Lounge. Dr. R. G. Sturm, Re
search Engineer and Physicist of the Re
search Laboratories of the Aluminum 
Company of America, will speak on 
Mathematics in Research and Research 
in Mathematics. Everyone is invited to 
attend.
Win A Bond!
Tech will really swing out this Satur
day evening at the annual Mens Dorm 
Council Spring Dance, where Brad Hunt 
will furnish the music from nine to one. 
And, fellas! Dont forget to buy defense 
corsages at the dance for your dates, 
cause each corsage is numbered, and the 
possessors of the lucky number get two 
war bondsone for the fellow and one 
for the girl.
Bill Le Roy Swings Out For Womens 
Guild Dance!
Virginia Bruce, Chairman of the Wom
ens Guild Dance, reports that the music 
for this Pan-American festival will be 
provided by Bill Le Roys orchestra. Hot 
dogs and pop, penny pitching, and many 
other forms of amusement promise to fill 
in the intermissions and make this one 
of the big affairs of the year of the Tech 
Social program. Proceeds will help to
wards scholarship-grants for upperclass 
girls, awarded on the basis of need. Lets 
get out and support this worthy cause at 
a mere $1.40 per couple.
ir -ir Jx -{x fr $?
They Also Serve
At home and on the fighting fronts, the 
movements of men and military machines 
and supplies usually start with a message 
sent over a wire.
The prompt, efficient handling of a tele
phone call may often be as vital to victory 
as the firing of a gun.
Telephone Operators at their switchboards 
and telephone men who maintain the lines 
wear no uniforms. But they have the satis
faction of knowing that they perform an 
essential service.
They are giving swift wings to America's 
war-time messages. They are helping their 
country to win the war.
&
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Swimmers Defeat 
Western Reserve
Saturday arternoon the Tech swim
ming team broke a jinx which has been 
following them for the past seven meets 
as they defeated Western Reserve 47 to 
28. This was the last scheduled meet of 
the 1943 season and the first victory for 
Tech. The gods of fortune who have 
been siding with our opponents in pre
vious contests reversed their stftnd and 
gave the Skibo swimmers the breaks. 
Our team was almost full strength; only 
Venzer was missing from the regular 
squad; but Reserve was weakened by the 
lost of several key men. Gorman and 
Krohmer particularly were missed as 
they were responsible in large measure 
for th 39 to 36 beating that Reserve 
gave Tech earlier in the season at Cleve
land.
The Skibos started off right by taking 
the 300-yard Medley Relay in 3:28.1. The 
Carnegie relay team was made up of 
Eyeman, Ferguson and Spangler; and 
was opposed by Sackett, Feren and Rice. 
Ferguson set a new pool record of 1:08.6 
for the 100-yard breaststroke in this 
event. Clark of Reserve won the 220- 
yard freestyle in 2.41.9 with Galbraith 
and Taber of Tech following closely. 
Spangler and Fleck were first and third 
in the 50-yard freestyle, and Wise and 
Lewis came in second and fourth for the 
visitors. The time fas 27-8 seconds. Cap
tain Chris Smith amassed a total of 77.3 
points to take first in the Fancy Diving 
event, while Feren of Reserve was sec
ond and Taylor of Tech came in third. 
The score at this time was 11 for Re
serve and 21 for Carnegie.
Clark got his second win of the day 
for the Clevelanders in the 100-yard dash 
which he won in 1:00.7. Spangler and 
Eyman followed closely to take second 
and third for Tech, and Wise was fourth 
for Reserve. Sarosdy and Rerkowitz 
were first and second for Tech in the 150- 
yard backstroke in 2:00.8 and Reserves 
only contestant, Sackett, was third. Fer
guson won the 200-yard breaststroke in 
2:49.8 while Feren of Reserve, Beal of 
Tech, and Rice of Reserve finished in that 
order. This event clinched the meet for 
Carnegie as it gave them 39 markers out 
of a total of 75 possible points. Taber 
and Donahue grabbed first and second 
for Tech in the 440-yard freestyle and 
Mako of Reserve was third. The time 
for this event was 6:17.8. Reserve won 
the 400-yard relay in 4:28.5 with a team 
composed of Glasser, Lewis, Wise and 
Clark against Voelz, Fleck, Lewis and 
Magel for Tech. Carnegie could have 
put a stronger team in this event, but 
Coach Risedorph decided that experience 
for the boys was more important than the 
extra seven points.
ON THE RECORD
Today
Vol.36 Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles A. H. 
Pearson will present the following phon
ograph recital:
Fantastic Symphony..........................Berlioz
Thursday
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick
Dorian will be in charge of the following
program:
First Symphony .............................. Mahler
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Cagers Face Geneva 
Sat. In Curtain Game; 
Drop W. & J. Contest
By Asher Etkes
Looking forward, (our new slogan, 
Wait till next year) our basketeers 
will take a short jaunt to State College 
(O. P. A. restrictions) Wednesday with a 
strong will to avenge an early season de
feat at the hands of the Nittany Lions, 
32-30. They will return to face a strong 
Geneva team, this Saturday at Skibo 
Gym. This will be the last game of a 
season in which victories produced were 
as rare as a raw steak these days.
Looking back, our cagers fell victims 
to W. & J.s ninth straight victory last 
Wednesday. They suffered their fifth 
successive setback at the time. In a sur
prise move Coach Maxie started second 
stringers mostly. It was evident from 
the first whistle that a good football 
game was in progress as fouls were called 
by the thousands. However, Adam 
Sanders, coach of the invading Presidents 
caught on to our tactics and instructed 
his rangy prodigies to lay low and watch 
for openings. With the score 6 to 1 in 
favor of the Giants from Washington our 
regulars were injected into the fray 
and immediately proceeded to make 
things hot for the visitors. Playing on 
even terms, the Hannum men were 7 
points short of leading at half time.
Rest seemed to do our boys good as 
they flashed their best playing talent dur
ing the third period, scoring 11 points to 
W. & J.s 12. A powerful blow was dealt 
to the expected home-stretch-drive as 
Captain Dave Brinn was outsted as a re
sult of four personal fouls with 45 sec
onds gone in the fourth and last quarter. 
Eight points behind at the time Tech 
never had a chance during the next 10 
minutes with its leading scorer and play - 
maker on the bench. What with the out
come of the exciting game practically at 
hand, the two coaches started shuffling 
players, freely and the game turned into 
a rout as the visitors outscored the Tar
tans 14 points to 6 during this wild pe
riod. It brought the final count to 49-33 
in favor of W. & J. and proved to all that 
were present that they held undisputed 
rights for the districts top team.
It was interesting to watch during this 
and the past few games the improvement 
of one specific player, Frank Showman. 
This Junior Management engineer from 
Connellsville, Pa., started the season un
der a terrific handicap. Playing the past 
6 years at the forward position he was 
moved to guard this season by Coach 
Hannum. Starting slow, Frank saw 
many a heart breaking set shot go in 
and out of the hoop. As no one could 
keep him down he conquered his fears 
of the new position, turned around and 
became leading scorer in the last five 
games.
Weeks Sport Results
THE
PL ACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
-ISBILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Swimming
.47 vs. Western Reserve.... 28 
Basketball
W. and J.49 vs. Tech ..............................................33
Intramnral Bowling
Kappa Sigma ....... 2 vs. Alpha Tau Omega. . 1
vs. 
vs. 
vs. 
vs. 
vs.
Tech
Citcom B .............. 2
Delta Tau Delta... 3
Citcom A .............. 3
Pi Kappa Alpha... 2 
Theta Xi................ 2
Tau Delta Phi.......... 1
Scobell Hall .......... 0
Phi Kappa .............. 0
Beta Theta Pi.......... 1
Delta Upsilon.......... 1
Wrestling
Tech .. ....................IS vs. V. M. C. A................. 3
The scores for Intramural Volleyball will be found in the article directly below.
Five Teams Unbeaten 
In Volleyball League
During the past week there were many 
hotly contested games on the volleyball 
courts. Last years champs, the PiKas 
have yet to be defeated. The Betas and 
Kappa Sigs are still fighting to keep their 
slate clean. Both Citcom A and Citcom 
B have a perfect record of all wins. From 
all indications there is going to be a close 
race for the title.
The mostly hotly contested game of the 
week was played by the Delts and the
S. A. E. who battled through three games. 
The S. A. E. finally emerged the victors 
taking two out of three games 21-19, 21-
15. The Dorm boys from McGill Hall 
whitewashed the DUs; taking two 
straight, 21-12, 21-10. The Citcom B 
team kept up their good work and down
ed the Phi Kaps 21-4, 21-9. Sparked by 
Jim Taylor, the Kappa Sigs played a 
close game with Scobell Hall. Scobell 
went ahead and took the first game 21-
16. The Clyde street boys came back to 
take the next two games 21-11, 21-16 to 
win the encounter. The undefeated 
PIKAS trounced the Tau Delts 21-14, 21- 
13. Battling to stay among the ranks of 
the undefeated, the Citcom A team beat 
the Beta Sigs 21-5, 21-14. The Betas 
downed the Theta Xis, but the TXs came 
back to beat the Tau Delts later in the 
week.
C>ponti, SU&lti
We Need A Band! 
Where Is Ours?
By Don Frencn, Sports Editor
If there was one more addition to our 
basketball games, they would similate a 
college contest. The addition this writer 
has in mind is the Carnegie Band. We 
are reputed to have one of the best bands 
in the country, so why shouldnt we make 
the most of this talent by displaying it. 
Certainly there is no reason why our de
emphasized football team should be the 
only sport to receive the added prestige 
of the band, especially when the bask
etball contests have drawn a crowd al
most comparable to the football team.
With both cheerleaders and the band 
we can just about match most high 
schools in the country with one excep
tion; in most high schools the rooters 
can really let out with some cheers. At 
our contests the outside public must be 
amazed as they see our cheerleaders exe
cute one cheer while our cheering sec
tion remembers an older cheer and tries 
to out do the cheerleaders at yelling it.
It seems this article got off the track 
a little bit to throw in a side punch, but 
getting back to. the band, it would really 
be sensational if we could end our bask
etball season this Saturday like most 
schools commence theirs, namely, with 
cheerleaders, the band, and a real rooting 
section. How about it, Techites!
Harry Smith Leaves
Shortest player on the squad, and one 
of the best; this is Maxie Hannums de
scription of that little man who has 
shown plenty of fight in Techs recent 
basketball contests. However, the Army 
Air Corps Meterology Division has asked 
Harry to visit them at the University of 
North Carolina for a course of study, so 
Tech loses and North Carolina gains a 
dynamic little ball player. We wish you 
the best of luck in the service, Harry!
HI-DENSITY LEAD
.... is the basis of pencil tracings lor clear, 
sharp blueprintinga very special quality 
of Eberhard Faber MICROTOMIC "VAN DYKE" 
drawing pencils which should command pref
erence for their use on school work as it does 
among engineers and professional draftsmen.
MTU MKtOTMUC LEAD18 DEGREESMB 6 DEGREES Will CMSEL P0MT LEADS
EBERHARD FABERJlea.dexihlp in mne writing materials since ib4*
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Fort Pitt is the Ploce 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH % 1943arte
Splash! Plunge! Join The Fun 
At Swimming Party on Mar. 6
Good news for our shapely swimmers! 
Student Council has planned a swim
ming party to be held on Saturday even
ing, March 6th, from eight oclock until 
ten-thirty. Naturally Techs huge swim
ming pool wiil be the scene of action and 
it may be found in the Gymnasium 
Buildingentrance by the main door in 
the front of the building. Council ex
tends an all-inclusive invitation. You 
may come stag (either boys or girls) 
or you may bring your latest heart throb, 
the welcome sign will be hung out for 
all who find it convenient to attend. The 
success of the recent social affairs, spon
sored by Council, has encouraged the 
hope that this party will also be enthu
siastically endorsed by the students and 
be a fore-runner of more and better 
things to come. It is necessary that each 
person bring along his or her own bath
ing suit. Admission for students and 
their mermaids will be Evening School 
registration cards. For defense students, 
day students, and others the admission 
charge will be 35c per person or 70 per 
couple.
Basketball Players!
Attention athletes! Ronnie Dresher, one 
of our strong-minded students is a bask
etball enthusiast of the first order, con
sequently he requests all those interested 
in playing on Saturday afternoons to 
telephone him. Call between nine A. M. 
and five P. M. any week-daythe num
ber is Atlantic 5100 ,extension 2183.
No professional players are desired, 
but skillful men may try their luck 
against Ronnies champions. The games 
will be played in Techs Gym whenever 
the space is available.
Pe/tia*uUUie4.-----------
LOUISE PERSHING . . . After an 
absence of several yearsreturned to 
Tech two years ago to take Voice and 
Speech and is continuing her studies this 
year . . . Previously studied painting 
under Mr. Rosenberg . . . Took a general 
college preparatory course at Knox 
School in New York . . . Later special
ized in a two year course in Art at the 
Academy of Fine Arts at Philadelphia 
. . . Spends most of her time painting 
and sketching . . . finishes work at her 
studio in her home in Greentree ... Is 
a member of the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh and has exhibited in their 
yearly show at Carnegie for some time 
. . . Has taken many 'prizes in various 
exhibitslatest is the second prize in the 
present Associated exhibit . . . Previous 
to the war had paintings accepted in In
ternational at Carnegie Institute . . . 
Has also exhibited in Chicagoat the 
Biennial Show Washingtonat Butler 
and Youngstown  among other places 
. . . Painting characterized by glowing 
rather luminous color  whimsical sub
ject matterexample is her painting of 3 
scene at Kennywood Park in the present 
exhibit . . . Although much of her
sketching is done here at Pittsburgh 
she travels generally in the summer and 
seems to favor New England for material 
for she spent one summer painting at 
Rockport, Maineand the last summer 
in Vermont . . . Her love for color is 
exhibited in her vivid flower garden . . . 
Is going to patriotically attempt to grow 
vegetables this spring.
'A /O
Jerry Miller sure gets around. First he 
attended Carnegie Tech, and we lost him 
to Penn State. Penn State is now very 
sorry, yet proud, to let Uncle Sams Air 
Corps take over from here ... A cer
tain lovely lady from Maggie Murph 
has finally decided to attend a Tech so
cial. Ginny Gebhard was not fooling 
when she said positively she would be out 
for the next affair ... A very active 
newcomer to the Plaid is John Groll. 
He can be seen almost any Friday night 
really working hard. Nice going John 
. . . Latest report from Private Bob 
Aungst is that life at Camp Pickett, Vir
ginia, is the nuts. He is now taking Basic 
Training which, of course, includes KP 
. . . 2nd Lieutenant Jim Miller of the 
Signal Corps just returned to Harvard 
after a furlough in Pittsburgh. Guess his 
wife kept him busy and he couldnt make 
the scheduled trip to visit the Plaid 
staff . . . After much debate as to Army 
or Navy, William Moles finally decided 
on the Navy, and is now an Ensign in 
the Naval Reserve . . . Have you seen 
the little Gremlins who have been pass
ing out dance tickets on the campus the 
last couple weeks. If you havent met 
the Gremlins you will be sorry. Next 
time make sure you dont miss a chance 
for a ticket and a very good time . . . 
The Plaid could make very good use 
of a couple of typists. Printing a news
paper isnt all just writing, so how about 
it gals? Here is a very good opportunity 
to get some points toward an insignia 
... Ed Macha was such a very attrac
tive George Washington that the other 
girls wanted to dance with him, but he 
preferred Martha as usual . . . What 
certain glamorous Maggie Murphs 
thought the George Washington Birthday 
Dsnce was on Tuesday, so they didnt go. 
Next time read your tickets, girls, and 
then BE THERE . . . What certain en
gineer got his ears boxed because he fail
ed to show up at the George Washington 
Birthday Dance? Joe King didnt seem to 
mind having them boxed by such a nice 
young lady ... It sure was strange how 
two articles for the Plaid last week got 
lost, but they were found again. More 
funny things have been happening late
ly, dont you agree . . . That Mixer 
Dance at the dance on the 20th sure 
was a success. Everyone got well ac
quainted, which added a lot to the even
ing ... Of course, it was very embar
rassing to some of the people when their 
choices were not there . . .
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
WHY WALK A MILE
25 Feet to Barber Shop and Beauty Parlor. Courteous Service.
Campus Barber and Beauty Shop
Romeo and Juliet 
March 13th To 27th
If you havent seen any of the past 
plays which the drama school has so 
cleverly presented, nows your chance. 
Beginning on Saturday, March 13, and 
continuing for two weeks to March 27th, 
the production will be Shakespeares 
Romeo and Juliet. *
Few of the Night School Students seem 
aware that they may acquire free tickets 
to the plays by merely presenting their 
Registration Card in the office at the Ad
ministration Building. Each Night School 
Student is entitled to two tickets for one 
performance of each play. Theres only 
one catch, you have to get them early 
before theyre all gone.
Reco'ulintf' fya+vi!
Too, too few people on campus, es
pecially Night School Students who have 
comparatively few social activities, at 
which they might learn them, know ALL 
the words to the Alma Mater as well as 
other campus songs. Recordings by the 
Kiltie Band and the Bagpipers are now 
available for 75c apiece, at Student Coun
cil office in the Union. Special cardboard 
boxes for mailing purposes are available 
at 25c extra. For further information call 
Louise Zonge, Gibsonia 25 M.
New Council Officers
Student Council has added two new 
members to fill vacancies. Louis Miller 
has been chosen as Secretary-Treasurer 
of School of Industries to fill an open 
position. Chester Biscup has been select
ed as Vice President of Engineering to 
replace Bob Aungst who recently left to 
join Uncle Sam.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Hamegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of Ihe Day School staff.
Editor Nancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of EngineeringJoseph M. Rymar *
Associate Editor of IndustriesMary Jo Weber '
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
Albert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edward A. Macha Robert Bassett
StaffS. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski Albert Kersturkos
Air Raid Warning
Continued from Page 1 
tinue to be the intermittent ringing of 
class room bells for two minutes, and 
the signal for resuming normal activities 
will continue to be a steady ringing of 
the class room bells for two minutes. At 
night the signal for seeking shelter will 
be the flash signal of the lights, and the 
signal for resuming activity will be the 
two minute steady ringing of the class 
room bells.
A Bond for Your Writing
Are any of you women literary 
geniuses interested in winning a $25 War 
Bond? If so, then all you have to do is 
to write an essay, poem, or any such 
form of literature on the War Influence 
and send it to the Bard. If your article 
is published and considered worthy, it 
will b entered in the contest sponsored by 
Alpha Chi Alpha, national womens jour
nalistic honorary. Any woman student, A. 
X. A. or not, is eligible. Just drop your 
contributions in box 409 at the post of
fice.
/ "fit mRom eanei*tSP0HVKT
'BIGGEST HIT IN EGYPT? THATS EASY. 
HAMBURGERS AND COKES."
 
#
Corner Margaret Morrison and Forbes StreetsMAyflower 3921
You probably read that in your newspaper 
a while ago. That war correspondent found 
how our fighting men everywhere want 
Coca-Cola. It must have something special 
to be the favorite of the fighting forces. 
There's taste you dont find anywhere this 
side of Coca-Cola, itself. And theres that 
welcome feel of refreshment that goes into 
energy. Take it from me, Coke is good.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
