SUBSCRIBE NOW 
FOR
THE TARTAN
fiamimtmr g/BSi(Ehr arlan
A BIG BIT 
FOR 
SIX BITS
VOL. XI. NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAJAN. 24, 1917
City Firemen Study Fire Engine at TechPENN STATES OFFER TO STEFFENCAUSES CRISIS IN TECH A1HLEUCS
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TD PRESENT TWO PLATS
The Importance of Being 
Earnest" and The Dead 
Are Dead to Be Presented
Both State and Tech Officials Hold 
Conferences With Coach
THE OUTCOME IS UNCERTAIN
Courtesy Pittsburgh Sim.
CITY FIRE FIGHTERS 
STUDY FIRE ENGINES
(Pittsburgh Sun, Jan. IS)
Fine points of construction and op
eration of steam engines and boilers, 
automobile engines and trucks, the 
A, B, Cs of enginedom, are being 
taught city firemen. Not in the fire 
houses, nor on the streets, but in 
the shops of the mechanical engineering'"deliartmento"f" the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
No school bell rings the students 
to their 9:30 classes, but a desire 
to learn and to better their positions 
by understanding all about the en
gines they work on every. day, and 
perchance an ambition to step higher 
in the service.
Under the direction of Prof. R. B. 
Ambrose and C. A. Parker the men 
are put through a  course of dis
mantling and rebuilding a model fire 
engine, probing into valves and other 
parts and knowing the why of every 
part of the apparatus.
The study classes are entirely vol
untary on the part of the firemen 
j They attend sessions from 9:30 to 
11:30 oclock two mornings a week, 
in the period when they are free 
from duty at their engine houses. 
Besides studying the fire engine, the 
men are instructed by blackboard 
work through diagrams and lectures.
So far the "studes have Avon the 
approval of their instructors. They 
have adopted no class yell as yet, 
but in point of attention and real ap
plication the instructors paid a com
pliment to the fire laddies in that 
their questions and their manifest 
desire ito know surpasses the atten
tion of the day students who are at
tending the big engineering school.
They are not here for fun, said 
Prof. Ambrose. These men have 
worked in the department and take 
a real interest in the shop work. 
They do not waste time, but ask in-j 
telligent questions and are real stu
dents. They are as particular as any 
college man over their notebooks.
The instruction classes opened last 
semester in the engineering school 
and the course will be extended 
over next term.' The men are be
ing primed on the style of engine 
now used, except that it is not one 
of the new pieces of motor appara
tus. Later they will be put on au
tomobile engines and trucks. They 
are also instructed in machine shop 
practice and arithmetic. The. school 
term will be continued until May .
The course of study really prepar
es the men for taking higher posi
tions than the ones they now fill. 
By ta.king the civil service examina
tions for engineers they can benefit 
directly by the time they put in at 
the shop. After a man has taken 
the course he will be better fitted 
not only to handle the engine in his 
own _fire house, but can step on to 
better paid work.
There are 150 men in the classes 
In age they range from 25 to 55. 
At the shop today there was a con' 
centration and definiteness about the 
way the men paid attention that 
made the machine shop look like a 
"regular place instead of a college 
class room.
Pinochle and pedro have disappear
ed as topics of polite conversation 
in the engine houses in the after
noon, according to one of the 
"studes, and instead there are now 
being carried on in the various fire 
houses of the city debates on knotty 
problems of engine construction ana 
mechanical equipment.
On Friday evening, January 19, the 
Drama Department entertained 250 
students from the Schenley I-Iigh 
School at a performance of three 
one-act French plays. On Saturday 
afternoon the French plays were re
peated for the College Club of Pitts
burgh.
The next production of tho drama 
students will be Oscar Wildes "The 
Importance of Being Earnest, a 
three-act. play, directed by Mr. B. 
Iden Payne. "The Dead Are. Dead, 
a one-act play by Harold Yrighouse, 
will be given as curtain-raiser. Seats 
for the first two performances, Thurs
day and Friday evenings of this week, 
will be divided between the mailing 
list, consisting of. patrons and friends 
of the school, and the faculty. There 
will be several performances for the 
students and their friends during the 
following week, beginning January 
28. Tickets may bo obtained from 
Miss Bonnott, secretary of the De
sign School.
Rehearsals of Ibsens Pillars of 
Society, which were begun last 
spring, will be resumed very soon. 
Mr. Stevens has also very fortunately 
obtained permission to produce Steph
en Philips play, "Paolo and Frances
ca, which will be presentod in the 
near, future.
The "plebes are rohearsing three 
one-act plays"Tho Land of Hearts 
Desire, by Yeats; an interlude cal
led "The Flight of Dierdro, and 
"Holbein in Blackfriars, a play writCoach Walter Steffen has recently received an offer from Penn 
State College in which he is offered a salary of $3,500, an increase 
of $1,000 over that received here. As a result a crisis has arisen 
at Tech concerningnext years football coach. At present Steffen 
has a two year contract with the Athletic Association, but has asked 
release from this contract in an unofficial letter to Director Hamersclilag. No official action has been taken by either Steffen or 
the Athletic Association as yet. A meeting of the Athletic Associa
tion will be held tonight. Authorities at Tech have advised re
taining Tech's most successful coach. The condition of the Asso
ciation at present is such that under present regulations an increase . 
in salary would be impossible. It has been suggested by some 
students that either a popular subscription be conducted to raise 
the required sum, or that the student fee be raised. Neither plan 
seems feasible. According to a letter from Steffen to Captain 
Finlay he will be in Pittsburgh next Friday to negotiate with Penn 
State authorities.
ALLEGHENY WINSHOT GAME 25-20SCIENCE LOSES 
POPULAR INSTRUCTOR
Tech Displays Belter Floor 
Game, But Cannot Over
come Volks Spec'acular 
Sho ting
In a fast, exciting, rough-and-tum
ble gamo tho Allegheny Collogo five 
managed to nose out Tech (25-20) In 
a nock-to-nock finish. Tho deciding 
factor for Allegheny was Ilio almost 
superhuman shooting of Volk, who 
dropped tho ball In from 11 posi
tions in tho last fow minutos of
PITT-TECH SMOKER 
PLANNED FOR FEB. 17
Annual Event to Be Held in 
Trees Gymnasium onThird 
Saturday in February
At the last meeting of the Pitt 
student senate a committee was ap
pointed to arrange a joint Pitt-Tech 
smoker, similar to that given by our 
institution last year to the men from 
across the valley. The committee, 
consisting of Ames (chairman), For
man, Mays, Haudenshield, Miller and 
Armstrong, has decided that Satur
day, February 17, will see the secoiijd annual smoker take place in 
Trees gymnasium. Further details 
will be announced as soon as they are 
decided upon.
This affair, originated last year by 
the men of Tech, has become, by this 
action of the Pitt; students, one more 
link in that chain of events forged 
for the purpose of clearly presenting 
to each student body the good quali
ties of the other institution, and establishing that spirit of good sports
manship that should prevail between 
two so-closely situated groups of 
men.
M.M. C.S. SOPHS GIVING DANCE FOR THE PLEBES
---------------The Margaret Morrison Sophomores j 
are planning with great interest a 
dance for Saturday evening, Feb
ruary 17, with the Plebe class for 
their guests. Both Plebes and Sophj 
omores are looking forward with 
great enthusiasm to that night when 
they will all get together in a social 
way.
NOTED MUSICIAN LEADS 
TECH ORGANIZATION
For the past seven seasons the 
Mandolin Club of the Carnegie Musi
cal Clubs has been under the direc
tion of Sgn. Gregorio Scalzo, whose 
abilities as a mandolinist are known, 
not only in the United States, but 
also in - South America and Europe.
Sgn. Scalzo was born in Taormina, 
Italy, in 1884. He commenced the 
study of music at the age of nine, 
and when 16. toured Argentina, 
Uruguay and Brazil, as mandolin so
loist. Returning to Europe in 1901, 
he resumed his studies under such 
artists as Becker, Nikisch and Hoff
man.
After another concert tour in Bra
zil, he returned to Berlin to form and 
direct the Club Sylvestri, an orginization of 400 mandolinists. In 1909 
Sgn. Scalzo came to the United 
States to play with the short-lived 
Pittsburgh Orchestra, and in 1910, he 
became director of the Mandolin 
Club, a position which he still holds.,
Besides directing the club, Sgn. | 
Scalzo has composed several pieces j 
of much merit, and he has dedicated 
two of these to the schools. He has ' 
done more than probably any other j 
director to improve the quality of.; 
the music presented by college clubs, j 
and to change them from mere noise-1 
producers to truly musical organizaj 
tions.
You have the opportunity of seeing i 
this man in action and of judging | 
his ability with a group of Tech 
men at the Home Concert on March 
9, at Carnegie Music Hall. Come out I 
and spend a pleasant evening. Supj 
port Tech's leading non-athletic ac
tivity. And dont forget the dance. | 
Better speak to the lady before j 
some one beats you to it. Tickets | 
on sale next week.
1917 THISTLE IS 
NEARING
Board Is Enthusiastic Over 
BookSales Agents Are 
Active
Have you purchased that Thistle 
receipt yet? There is unlimited dis
appointment in store for the poor 
unfortunate who fritters away his 
substance on the riotous movies and 
neglects the golden opportunity of 
making his future joy and happiness 
secure by acquiring a clear title to 
the most prickly Thistle that has 
cast any down to its breezes of the 
Tech campus in many a day. (Short 
breathing space ) How do we know? 
Listen! The forerunner of the 1917 
Thistle made its initial appearance in 
tne spacious offices of that publica
tion last week and the proximity of 
oncoming exams was the only pow
er that could draw those fortunate 
members of the board who saw it 
away from it. Of course it was just 
a dummy, showing only the cover 
and binding, but from this judge for 
yourself if you can what the effect 
of the completed book will be when 
placed in the hands of the student 
body. Its green binding with bevel 
edges and impressed panel with 
poster design in colors constitute 
without question a work of art. Re
member that it is not yet too late 
to secure an option on one (or more) 
of these shares of preferred stock 
Your name on in gold if you wish. 
You know what procrastination did, 
so honor the first salesman you 
meet with your order and avert a 
calamity. Par value two fifty with 
an investment of but one twenty-five 
requested.
Thomas Wood Stevenswhich will 
be produced in a few weeks.
Beginning sometime next month, 
the Drama Department, joining with 
tho Music Department, will give 
weekly matineeson Friday after
noons, alternating concerts and plays.
MUSICAL CLUBS TAKE 
TRIP TO MARSHALSEA
play. Through displaying a superior 
brand of passing, Tech outplayed 
Allegheny tho whole of tho first half, 
and a largo part of tho second half, 
ten by Kenneth Sawyer Goodwin and 1 up. to the tlmo that Volk wont on Ills
disastrous tear.
Tho score at tho end of the first 
half was 12 to (I In favor of tho 
varsity, tho upstartors falling to got 
a single basket. McCullough's men 
maintained their load up.to tho mid
dle of tho second half, whon Voile 
put Allegheny In tho load at 15-14, 
and another basket brought It to 
17-14. Abrams shot a foul and Fin
lay tied It at 17, all with a basket. 
Toeh forgot! ahead whon Abrams 
dropped In another foul, but Alle
gheny quickly regained their lead 
with two baskets in rapid succession 
from the middle of the floor, and a 
little later two more. The Inst one 
being a long shot by Johnny Volk 
f.rom past the center of tho floor. 
Abrams brought Tech up to 25-20 
with two fouls and the game ended.
The best performer for the Plaid 
was Finlay. Nig was the shiftiest 
and fastest man on the floor. I-Ie 
eluded his man and brought the ball 
up the floor again and again, getting 
clear, undisturbed tries for shots. 
But luck does not favor Nig's long 
shots, his one basket being a closeup affair. It is to be regretted, for 
just three of Nigs numerous at
tempts would have won the game.
"Scoops Carey, the center, de
serves much praise for his close fol
lowing of the ball and good guarding. 
Scoops had' the jump on his man 
the whole of the game. Three times 
he batted the ball into, the basket, 
a somewhat unusual feat, while his 
man failed to get a goal. It looks 
as though McCullough had the man 
(Continued on Page Four.)
It is with regret that the school 
announces the loss of one of its most 
popular Instructors, but this feeling 
Is tempered by one of satisfaction at 
Ilio advancement of the gentleman In 
question. Mr. Fitzgerald leaves his 
post of instructor of commerce and 
statistics In tho Department of Com
mercial Engineering, to assumo tho 
duties of assistant profosstir of Com
mercial Organization and Finance In 
tho nowly established Collogo of 
Commerce at, Toledo, O. This col
logo Is a Muh-dlvlslon of tho Munici
pal University at Toledo.
In taking loavo of Mr. Fitzgerald, 
tho Fulcrum Club, of which ho was 
a faculty mombor, hold a food and ilSome Go for Insp'ration and 
Others Go for Companion
ship, But All Go to Make 
Music
On Thursday evening the Musical 
Clubs depart for Marshalseaoh, no; 
not for permanent residence there, 
but to give the concert, which has 
become an annual affair.
About fifty men caught the train 
at Union station and a few strag
glers were picked up at Fourth ave
nue. The trip down was uneventful 
and, in the course of half an hour, 
the crowd was unloaded at the in
stitution. Here the benevolence of 
the city of Pittsburgh was very evi
dent. It does not believe in making 
its wards work during the winter, 
for although the buildings are sev
eral hundred feet from the station, 
not a single molecule of snow had 
been removed from its original rest
ing place to make a path. Of course, 
it might have been worse, as the 
snow was never more than two feet, 
deep.
An excellent supper was served in | 
a private dining room, and everyone j 
enjoyed it. That is, with the excep
tion of those who are not used to 
eating in insane asylums and poor 
houses, and whose appetites were 
consequently almost nil.
The concert was finished without! 
any of, the audience becoming vlolont. This Is regardod quite an ac
complishment. Some of the mem
bers of tho Glee Club entertained tho [ 
nurses with a few songs, and everyj 
one was permitted to take the train 
for Pittsburgh at 10 o'clock, although | 
the superintendent had some doubts j 
about the mental balance of two or j 
three of. the men.
A big bit for six bits.
INDUSTRIES SCHOOL
The students of the Industries 
School held their first annual swim 
last Wednesday evening, at the 
Pittsburgh Natatorlum, A large 
crowd was on hand whon the time 
arrived for the initial plunge and 
everyone had a most ciijoyable time. 
Several exciting races wore pulled 
off, which added to the enjoyment, 
A feature of the evening was the 
performance of some very Interest
ing diving and swimming stunts by 
Shizuo Sasaki of the Middle Class, 
who proved to be a most capable en
tertainer.
MR. FITZGERALD
lustrated lecture on last Thursday 
evening. The club, through Mr. Con
ley, its president presented Mr. 
Fitzgerald with a handsome leather 
brief case, as a mark of. its high re
gard.
On Monday afternoon Professors 
Blakey and Bingham, assisted by 
Prof. and Mrs. Willett and Dr. and 
Mrs. Golpin, gave a reception to the 
men of the commercial department 
in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Fitzgerald 
at the residence of Professors Blakey 
and Bingham, 5721 Elmore avenue.
On Wedpesday evening Mr. and 
Mrs. Fitzgerald were guests of honor 
at a dinner in the First Baptist 
Church, where they were quite active 
workers.
JUNIORS GIVE TEA AT 
THE COPPER KETTLE
The Junior class of M. M. C. S. 
gave a tea at "The Copper Kettle, 
Saturday, with Miss Parry, their fac
ulty honor member, as guest. A 
most enjoyable tlmo was spoilt by 
all. Tho speakers wore Introduced 
by Miss Florence Bechtel, president 
of the class. Miss Hilda Cooper very 
cleverly Introduced each member of 
the class to Miss Parry by verse, 
while Miss Helen I-Illleary and Miss 
Helen Clark gave appropriate talks. 
In response to which Miss Parry an
swered most delightfully.
A big bit for six bits.
02192871
00530454

---------------------------------------------------

Page SUBCTHE TARTANJANUARY 24, 1917
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.___________________________________________________
Entered in the postofficr oi! Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION KATESYearly, $1.50_____________ 5 c the copy_________________Canada, .j>1.75*
Editor-in-Chief.......................................................Alfred M. Staehlc, 17
Pilone Schenley 9067
Business Manager...................................................Paul W. Emrael, 17
Phone Schenley 9167
Managing Editor...........................................................G. IT. Haynes, 19
Phone Schenley 2508.
News Editors.
J. RuHHoli Iioxworth, 17 
Phone Schenley 9031 
A. G. Pearce, '18,'assistant. 
Athlctic Editor 
J. J. Kennedy, '17 
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
J. P. Davis, '18 
P. C. Tucker, '19 
Staff Photographer 
M. A. Zeller 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Rico
Editors
M. D. Moyerson, '19 
Alex. Sharove, '18 
Sue Smith, '17 
P. H. Armor, '19 
Associate Editors 
F. C. McConnell 
IL J. Scobell, '18 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richter 
Circulation Manager 
R. R. Mumma, 17 
Phone Schenley 9070
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for p.olicy of this paper; the Managing 
Editor for the make-up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed, 
1 lie signature to be withheld if desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news items must be in the student postoilice, Central Building, by 
Monday noon. <*jgg*28
SCIENCE SCHOOL SENATE
During the past two months a movement has been in operation to 
formulate a plan for the student government of the School, -oi: Ap
plied Science. We have previously stated our opinion in regard to 
this matter and can therefore say little more in regard to our views, 
only to again'say, that we are heartily in favor of this action.
It seems peculiar that such a step has not been taken long before 
this, for the Science School stands alone at Tech in that it has no gov
ernment by its students. The establishment of any project, or its 
discussion has heretofore been a very cumbersome affair, inasmuch 
as each clais has had to take separate action in the matter. Har
monious action by the science men has been the exception rather 
than the rule.
It is to be hoped that this plan will meet with success and that 
it be invested with sufficient power to regulate the affairs to come 
under its supervision. We believe that in cases where a student is 
to receive demerits for conduct that the students rather than the 
faculty should.have the main voice. Faculty advice and supervision 
is a necessity, but absolute faculty control in matters of student con
duct removes the very kernel of power. When the students feel that 
they themselves are to judge their fellows, the first principle of honor 
is introduced. Each member of the school feels he himself is a part 
of the community in which he moves. His interest grows. lie no 
longer I'oels that he is n mere cog in the machinery of student welfare, 
but that he himself is an important part. Men grow with responsi
bility.. Responsibility increases efficiency.
Therefore we trust that this new government in the Science 
School will not be a mere tool in the hands of the faculty. Not that 
we for n moment, wish to suggest that such is its intention, but we 
trust that sufficient power will be invested in it to make it a real 
student government by the students.
OPPORTUNITIES
At the recent meeting of the students in the Design School, the 
opportunity BRI presented to them to hear an interesting talk by 
Kufh St. Denis and 'Pod Shawn. The week before the renowned 
Thomas Mott Osborne addressed the Industries men. These occasions 
us well as many others previously held bring to mind the wonderful 
opportunities presented to students of an educational institution such 
as Carnegie Tech to broaden their vision, to leaVn from the experi
ences of others, and to come in contact with people who are making 
a mark in the world.
Pittsburgh itself presents interests of a varied natuie. In a city 
as large as this, and as important as is this community, many educa
tional features may be investigated. And yet the student who takes 
full advantage of all these important opportunities is rarely to be 
found. We find engineering students, even in their senior year, who 
have never seen the inside of a steel mill, nor witnessed the operation 
of a blast furnace. And in all probability some would pass the most 
important chapter in their career without availing themselves of such 
features were it not for the fact that inspection trips are required by 
the school. Music students who have never attended the Ileyn Re
citals may be found. Drama students who read in the papers of 
famous actors or actresses and pay no further attention to their en
gagements in the city are not without number. And how many stu
dents know much about the Carnegie Institute, which they pass every 
day? Even a ease is cited in which a senior mechanical engineer, 
when asked by a visitor at the school on Carnegie Day, could not tell 
him how to go to the tower of Machinery Hall! The very building 
in which he spends abcwit 90 per cent of his time.
These facts, however, are human nature. One never realizes 
ones opportunities till it is too late. It is well to think of such 
things.
Foro-sight is better than hind-sight 1
DAY AND NIGHT STUDENTS
At a recent; night science banquet the idea of holding some sort 
of a social affair in which day and night students might meet was sug
gested. This seems to us to be an idea worthy of consideration. Both 
day and niglit students, interested in similar lines of work, and each 
having viewpoints of benefit to the other, should at least be on speak
ing terms. And yet such is not the case.
The night student, actively engaged in the line of work which 
ne is studying, has much information at hand which would not only 
be of great interest to the day man, but of much value to him. The 
day student, on the other hand, being more closely associated with 
the student activities, has also interesting information to offer the 
night student.
This matter has been taken up by the members of the recently
founded fraternity called Klaniclit, 
in the night school, and it is hoped 
that the day men will co-operate with 
them in this movement to bring the 
two bodies of students nearer to
gether.
The result would be mutual benefit.
MEMBERSHIP CAMPAIGN 
STARTED BY Y. M. C. A.
At regular meeting of Y. M. C. A 
cabinet last Wednesday, Paul Kaiser 
was appointed chairman of a mem 
bership committee, which will con 
duct a campaign in the three schools. 
An attempt will be made to see 
every man in the day classes upon 
the subject of membership.
Mr. Robert Mac Gowan, M. A., will 
address the men in Industries at 
their next assembly. Mr. Mac Gow
an is a man of note, both in this 
country and Scotland. He is a grad
uate of the University of Glasgow 
and a man worth hearing at any 
time. It will be a treat to all who 
have tlie opportunity to hear him.
Mr. Wm. Miller from the Nation
al Committee of Y. M. C. A., will 
visit the school Monday and Tues
day, January 22 and 23, in interest 
of the Y. M. C. A. Several meet
ings have been planned so that stu
dents may meet Mr. Miller and dis
cuss plans for future work around 
school.
Morning meetings are being well 
attended and much good is being 
derived therefrom.
INDUSTRIES FUCULTY 
MEMBER LOSES HIS 
FATHER BY DEATH
Mr. Gilbert M. Barnes of Omaha, 
aged 69, died suddenly of heart dis
ease yesterday at the home of his 
son, Mr. G. H., Barnes, of the In
dustries faculty. Mr. Barnes and his 
wife, who-were on their way to Flor
ida, had stopped off at Pittsburgh 
Saturday for a short visit.
LECTURE GIVEN BY 
NOTED ARCHITECT
Saturday morning at 11 oclock in 
room 229, in a real informal style, 
after a trip around the building with 
Dean Bossange and the faculty of 
the School of Applied Design, Mr. 
Cram, the biggest exponent in mod
ern Gothic architecture, delivered a 
few remarks to the architects upon 
his subject, which, although unan
nounced, was well understood by all.
Mr. Crams remarks were very in
spiring and more than interesting. 
The school can consider themselves 
very fortunate in having had Mr. 
Cram to portray a few of his ideas 
on the critical situation in which 
modern art is now standing.
A big bit for six bits.
Temper Ticklers For Teckites
The other day the editor in chief of this 
heel comes up to me and says that lies 
get in kinda discouraged nobody reads his 
editorials an just after lies sprung some 
bit; idea (you know that united tech stuff 
etc.) an thinks everybodys goin to be lalkin 
about his wonderful idea, he finds nobodys 
read liis stuff at all. So he scz to me says 
he i gotta to get a xlevcr guy what can 
rite somethin); that everybody wants to 
read or the sheet will go to the dogs an 
he wants to know if i wont rite a colum a 
week for him so 1 Bays to him I will.
I feel kinda sorry for that poor fellow 
lies one of them considerable uplifters 
always tellin us what the school needs and 
how poor the student porlimcnt is and how 
the feller what takes care of the tech ball 
park airit on the job fer what he gets paid 
for, and then somebody gives a dance or 
something he rites a swell editorial and 
they fall for it and give him a ticket 
which is all he wanted anyhow, lies got 
the wrong dope lie should rite more of that 
sensational stuff like the leader and then 
all the fellows would read the sheet, lie 
ought to get hold of some scandal, or tech 
beer sign stuff, and the like, but he says it 
aint good policy. And another thing he 
never puts an add in the sheet for the 
chief engineer over in the Hall of Machin
ery that fixes the auto for the guy that 
takes care of the aforementioned ball park. 
I)o you know that guy deserves a lot of 
credit for the repair shop lies runnin.
When i first thinks of ritin this colum 
a friend of mine Bays to me well its a good 
idea if you can get away with it, but it 
takes a guy like Gibson of the Pittsburgh 
Pest or Ring Lardner to get away with 
that stuff, but I figure as how a feller has 
gotta take a chanct an if he gets away 
with it lies a hero and if he dont lies 1 
boob anyhow everybody knows lies one or 
the other.
Last Saturday I was goin to study all 
day but I went over to the basketball game 
to watch the boys throw fowls, the other 
bunch got started wrong but they didnt 
foul so bad toward the end and the tech 
spirit stuff seemed to dwindle a bit. After 
the game I sees Harry Keck of the post 
and I tellB him about this colum and he 
thinks I could get away with it because he 
guesses that most of the Tech boys aint 
got a nickel to buy a Saturday evening 
post to read Ring Lardner stuff. After 
the game a red headed guy they calls red," 
the fellow that jumps around aL the games 
and then all the people yell at him, conics 
up to me and ask me what I thought 
could be done for a fellow what has a 
worn out pair of sIioob and a pocket book 
in the same condition. I says to him I'd 
tell the students about it, and so I will.
I think the poor fellow wore em out 
jumpin around at the games and 1 think 
we should all chip in an buy him a new 
pair o shoes. What do you Bay fellows? 
Now, lets GO.
TECH LOSES MUSIC 
STUDENT BY DEATH
Members of the Department of 
Music aro greatly saddened over the 
death of one of. their number, Miss 
Irene K. Wasmund, who died .follow
ing an operation at the Columbia 
hospital, last Wednesday evening.
Miss Wasmund was a sophomore 
student in the Music Department, 
specializing In vocal studios while 
taking the general course in that de
partment. She was a bright, apt 
student, and displayed musical talent. 
Sho had been a student at Allegheny 
High school previous to her entrance 
at Tech.
Miss Wasmund resided at 315 
Westinghouse avenue, Wilmerding, 
where she is survived by her mother 
and two sisters.
MANY COUPLES ATBAND CONCERT
Band Complimented on Per
formance Friday Night
The first concert of the year giv
en by the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nologys band was held last Friday 
night. Considering there were sev
eral other affairs on that evening, it 
was quite a success. At S oclock 
the concert whiich included the fol
low selections was begun:
1. MarchIron King....___St. Clair
2. OvertureGolden Wand.............
...................................... Laurendeau
3. NoveletteApple Blossoms.......
... i...................................Englemann
i. WaltzWedding of the Winds..
................................................... Hall
5. CapriceWhistler and His Dog
...................................................Pryor
(>. Tone PoomHumoresque. .Dvorak 
7. Medley Selection
Sounds from the Sunny South.,
...............................................Isenman
S. MarchMy Maryland.........Panella
This program was completed at 
about ten oclock. Nearly seventyfive couples danced from that time 
until twelve. The band hopes to pre
sent several more concerts before 
the year ends.
Director I-Iamersclilag was one of 
the speakers at the dedication exer
cises at the Schenley High School on 
Tuesday evening, January 9.
SCIENCE SCHOOL TO GET 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Committee, Headed by Tom 
Orr, Organizes to Investi
gate and Report on Plan
As the result of several weeks of 
effort a committee of Seniors and 
one of Juniors of the Science School 
organized a general committee to con
sider the question of student govern
ment in that school. The Sopho
mores and Plebes of the Science 
School were invited to appoint rep
resentatives to act for them on this 
general committee. Last 'Thursday 
the enlarged committee met and 
elected Tom Orr chairman, and au
thorized the appointment of a sub
committee to investigate the extent 
to which the necessary work should 
be sub-divided.
This general committee meets again 
to-morrow to hear the sub-committees report and provide for. fu
ture work. The Senior committee 
consists of Tom Orr (chairman), 
Merrill, Kesner, Morley and Wilson; 
Junior committee, A. G. Pearce 
(chairman), Soule, Lawson and
Wolfe; Sophomore committee, P. H. 
Armour, Miles and Kinder. The
name of the Plebe representative was 
not at hand when this account was 
written. This committee will keep 
the SGhool informed, through its 
members and The Tartan, on the 
progress of its investigation and de
cisions.
THREE PLAYS GIVEN 
BY DRAMA STUDENTS
On Friday night the students of 
the Dramatic Department in the 
School of Applied Design pleased a 
very well filled theater with three, 
plays:
"A Doctor in Spite of Himself 
Pater Noster.
Joan Marie.
Mr. W. P. Allen has been appointed 
Part-time Instructor in Mathematics 
in the School of Applied Industries to 
give instruction to the group of 150 
City Firemen who are registered in 
the special course of Stationary En
gineering.
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTION"
Browning, King & Co. |
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS 
FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET |
VOLO.XIONX.1.1N1N1N17C7A1N1N1N1NLR1NR1N17C7R1N1N1N1IRN1N1I
%
Phone 1254 Grant
ftrni Rental (Ea.,
406 PITTSBURGH LIFE BUILDING
FOR RENTAL
FULL DRESS AND ALL MENS FORMAL WEAR, FOR 
DAY OR EVENING
No Extravagant Statements, But Good Service.
NOTED SOCIOLOGIST 
ADDRESSES STUDENTS
Mr. Isaac Fisher, graduate of 
Tuslcegee Institute and winner of 
more than 20 prizes in National es
say contests in discussions of sub
jects of National importance, ad
dressed the Students in Industries 
Assembly last week.
His speech dealt with the Negro 
problem and its solution. Mr. Fisher 
held the attention and interest of 
his audience throughout his entire 
lecture.
He came to Pittsburgh with the 
Fisk University double quartet which 
was the guest of the school for two 
days. At one time Mr. Fisher, was 
associated with Booker T. Washing
ton.
THE SCIENCE SOPH 
MAKES OUT SCHEDULE
Speaking about personal efficiency, 
do you make out a schedule of things 
to be done and things not to do? 
Some of the Science Sophs are do
ing it, for behold, one of the Tartans 
keen-eyed reporters found the follow
ing items scrawled upon a sheet of 
paper in the Physics Lab.:
1Move to -----'s room.
2Buy card index.
3Negotiate loan.
4Cut pills.
5Call girls.
6Get alarm clocks.
7Find out about gameSat. or 
Fri. night?
SDont go out any week night.
9To bed by 11 oclock.
10Silence is golden. Think little, 
say less.
11No booze.
12Eyeshade.
13See -------------, get an extension of
. time.
The young man must ne thinking of 
the morning after when he remem
bers to get an alarm clock, just af
ter setting down the notecall girls." 
It is to be hoped that the owner of 
this memoranda will live up to his 
resolutions.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT 
ANNOUNCES PROGRAM
A modern comedy, The Import
ance of Being Earnest by Oscar 
Wilde will be given by the students 
of the Department of Dramatic Arts 
of the Design School in the theater 
of the Design building Thursday and 
Friday nights of this week. The 
play will be preceded by a one act 
play by Harold Brighouse called 
The Dead Are Dead. Both pro
ductions will be unc?r tlie personal 
direction of Mr. B. Iden Payne, the 
New York producer who is a mem
ber of the Drama Department faculty 
this year. Next week several per
formances will be given, a number 
of them being for students.
At a meeting of the Drama stu
dents recently held Mr. Thomas 
Wood Stevens announced the pro
gram for the rest of the year which 
promises to make it the most inter
esting. year the department ever will 
have had. Following the Wilde play 
rehearsals are to commence on Hen
rik Ibsens The Pillars of Society, 
one of the theoretically strongest of 
the great Norwegians productions. 
Paola and Franseca by Stephen 
Phillips will be produced in March. 
Mr. Stevens regards this play as one 
of the best things done in verse in 
modern times. The play has only 
been acted a few times in this coun
try. Richard Second will be the 
Shakespeare offering this year. It 
will be produced by Mr. Payne and 
will be the first of Shakespeares; 
tragedies to be done by the students. 
Finally an American play will be 
produced late in April, the occasion 
for the same being the annual con
vention of the Drama League of 
America which is holding its meet
ing in Pittsburgh this year.
Miss Frances Parry gave sketches 
of the lives of Richard Watson Gilder 
and John Hays before the College 
Club of Pittsburgh on January 5. The 
College Club, at its next meeting, on 
January 17, will be guests of the De
partment of Dramatic Arts. Three 
French plays will be presented' by 
students of the' Department to the 
Club.
CHURCHES
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. R. 
Hamiltons Class. Ail young women 
to H. C. Youngs Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park cars 
to Alder street.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.)
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenue*. 
Graded Sunday School 9:45 A. M 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A.M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages, 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D., 
Pastor
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street. 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector.
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
7:45 P. M. Splendid music, short 
sermons.
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and 
Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 p. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium, 
Craig street.
SMSMSJSMSMciJi
A big bit for six bits.
Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church
AMBERSON, Near Fifth. 
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR 
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 0 P. M. 
AT 9:45 O'CLOCK 
Young Mens Bible Claaa 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Mens Bible Class 
Prof. William R. Farmer 
Western Theological Seminary 
Margaret Morrison Class 
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp 
Women's Bible Class 
Mr. George M. Kirk
ifSJSMSMSMc
Breakfast
Sunday, 8:15-9:30.
The best one since you left home, 
at the Oakland M. E. Church, near 
Forbes Field, 10c. Come early and 
meet a live bunch of. fellows. After 
the eating contest, at 9:45, the Broth
erhood Class listens to A Mans Re
ligion Taught in a Manly Way.
East Liberty 
Y. M. C. A.
122 WHITFIELD STREET
I Come in and see what we have
a 
3a IM
(?jaisi3i3Mai3jaM3J3MaMajaM3MaMa/aMai
to offer.
Grace Reformed Church
(The Church Beautiful) 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor
ship at 11, Evening Services at 7:45, 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services. 
Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY 24, 1917THE TARTANPage Threa
Pen wayPen way 
Cellygy 
Beys
A'Geed 
Placy 
we Eaw435-5 Ave . Cop.Wm.Pen n Way 
Phone 9634 Grant
1 The Young Man's Great Opportunity 1
^or success today is salesmanship. Life In[a surance selling offers unlimited opportunities S
 \ fr success. Policies from $1,000 to $100,000. b
Hi ( ( I Write us about an agency. E
1 FRANK C. PIERSON, Manager
^ * Western Penna. Ordinary Dept.
Tenth Floor Diamond Bank Building t|
PITTSBURGH, PA.
X-MS/cM3J3MSM3M3MSM3M2M3Mc!MSM3J3M3M2M3M3J3MSclMc!ii3M3JSMSM3M3J3J
JSMSM3M2MSMSM3MSM3M3M2MSM3M3MSM2MSMM3M3MSMSMSiS/2MSM3MS/SJ 
Zoel J. Parenteau V. D. Nireila A. David Broudy |jj
ri Efficiency with Elegance
1 The Nireila Orchestras
^ 410 SIXTH AVENUE :::::: PITTSBURGH, PA. |
j|j Bell Phone Grant 360 ij
Service which is a Distinctive Asset to Host and Hostess.
kets, mid the game was won. For 
the Dorm Beide starred at center, 
and L. Jacobson and Mayer at for
wards and for I. S. D. Paulus was 
the all-around man.
In a hard tussle, preliminary to 
the Tech Allegheny game Schenley 
High defeated the Plebes by a score 
of 31 to 19. Better passing and team
work won the game for Schenley. 
The play was very rough at times, 
especially toward the end of the 
game. Schenley made all sorts of 
tries at the basket that hung fire, 
and then failed to go in. The foul 
shooting was very poor on both sides. 
For Schenley the best performers 
were Gefsky and Kahn. Replogle at 
center put up a good game, too. For 
the Plebes, Koefed starred. His 
close guarding kept down Schenleys 
scoring. The first half ended 12-6 
for Schenley, and they maintained 
their lead the rest of the game.
Tech Plebs, 19. Schenley, 31.
Goth-Cruse .......F............ Saiulomire ;
Slonacker-Bacon F................... Gefsky
Deever ..............C.;.............. Tceplogle
Cruse-Wire .......G........ Kahn-Meyers
Koefed .............G............. Rosenberg
Field goalsGoth, 2; Deever, 2;
I Wire, Sandomire, 2; Gefsky, 5; Rep
logle, 2; Kahn.
FoulsKahn, 10 out of 22; Deever, 
5 out of S; Slonacker, 4 out of 12.
RefereeMauthe.
Quarters10 minutes.
kMARKThese are tv/o of the 
24 popular shapes in 
which you can get the
Stratford
75c and up
W DC Hand Made
$1.00 and up
Each a fine pipe, 
with sterling silver ring 
and vulcanite bit. 
Leading dealers in 
town carry a full as
sortment. Select your 
favorite style.
WM.DEMUTH&CO.
New York
gft1allns?S$
The Junior and Sophomore archi
tects had a practice game of bas
ket ball -in the gym last Wednes
day. The Juniors won, 25-12. Line
up as follows:
Juniors. Sophs.
"Bob Spring ...F........... Woodward
Grenlich ..............F................. Devney
Trent ..................C........... Christman
K. Young ..........G.......... Chritchlow
L. C. Smith ____G.................. Howell
Twelve-minute halves. Referee, 
Ed. Green.
McDOUGALL DANCING STUDIOS g
SHADY AND PENN AVENUES EAST LIBERTY g
Beginners Classes: Monday and Thursday 
Advanced Classes: Mdnday, Thursday and Saturday
4616 FORBES STREET OAKLAND H
Beginners' Classe . Tuesday \\
Beginners and Advanceci Classes: Friday
One-step Club Dance, Saturday Evenings. 8:30 to 11:00 
SATURDAY EVENING SOCIAL CLUB DANCE
TUITiON 10 LESSONS $3.00
Genuino 
F rcnch 
Briar
Carnegie Institute of Technology
1 THE NATIONAL RESTAURANT |
1 BETWEEN FIFTH AND FORBES ON ATWOOD
[|] Special 35 cent Lunch11:30-2:30
[|j The Home of Home Cooking ^
On next,Friday evening the Dormi
tory Association of Carnegie Insti
tute will hold its second annual 
dance. It will without a doubt be 
one of the most successful affairs of 
the year at the Union. Nirellas 
saxaphone orchestra will play twenty 
dances from S:30 to 1. Refresh
ments will be served. Everything 
from music to programs indicates an 
enjoyable and entertaining event.
T
HE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied ScienceOffers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science. Also courses in science in preparation for teaching or 
for.research.
School of Applied DesignOffers courses in architecture, 
painting, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic 
arts, open to men and women, leading to the degree oE Bachelor 
of Arts.
School of Applied IndustriesOffers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation, and printing. Also a course for training indus
trial teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in 
Industrial Education. Short courses of eight months are offered 
in machine shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric 
wiring, plumbing, foundry, forging and bricklaying Lor more ma
ture applicants EGSTU have had some experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie SchoolFor women. Offers a 
regular day course of general training, with particular emphasis 
188 liome-making, followed by specialized training in household 
economics, secretarial economics, costume economics, home, arts 
and crafts, general science, or social work, leading to the degree 
of Bachelor of Science. Also courses for the training of teachers 
in the above subjects.
Night CoursesTlio four schools oifer night courses in prac
tically all of the above subjects to provide educational opportu
nities for those who are at work during the day.
FeesThe total fees for a day course are $4S.OO a year for 
residents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. The total 
foes for night coursos are $1 (.00 for residents and $18.00 for non
residents. ------------------------------
For further information address Registrar, Carnoglo Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh
Wednesday, vivacious Vivian Mar
tin appears at the Strand , the Row
land and Clark theater, at Forbes 
and Atwood, in a serio-comic drama, 
The Right Direction. Miss Martin 
is seen as the little girl who starts 
from New York for California with 
an infant buotlier, a nondescript dog 
and a baby carriage. Her adventures 
before and after reaching the spot 
are amusing and exciting. Frank Mc
Intyre is also to be seen with Doris 
Kenyon on Thursday in The Travel
ing Salesman, a comedy drama. A 
Man on the Road, becomes strand 
ed in a small town over Christmas. 
The adventures which befall him 
drive all thoughts of ennui away. 
This-play will amuse the most staid 
business man.
Victor Moore, the well lr.own com
edian, will also be seen in Did It 
Ever Happen to You?
Friday, one of the best laughmakers of today, Douglas Fairbanks, ap
pears in The Matrimaniac, a howl
ing success wherever shown. His at
tempts to marry his fiance, despite 
parental objections, are sidesplilters.
Saturday, The Love Thief, with 
Gretchen Hartman and Alan Hale 
starring, will be shown. Taken on 
the Mexican border, added interest is 
gained through the showing of many 
scenes of Pennsylvania troops en
camped.
On Monday "A Wife by Proxy 
will be shown. Mabel Taliaferro is 
featured in this screen play and por
trays the role of the little Irish 
cqleen in a most creditable manner.
Clara Kimball Young in one of herj 
greatest successes, Robert W. Cham
bers "The Common Law, is slated 
for Tuesday and Wednesday.
 Fifth AvE.a Atwood Str. ^ 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Largest Line of Picture Frames in the C ty.
F HUY,POX7PAINTING  fiNHmoaDiccun*Pi cnjnc BJE2T49O
Another "Mr. Smith has given 
Boston Tech $300,000 to finance its 
new course in Chemical Engineering 
Practice, which means that five 
groups of picked fourtli-year men will 
find themselves on February 4 at 
their appointed stations in five great 
manufacturing establishments ready 
to begin the most important develop
ment of modern times in chemical 
education. These stations are: Ban
gor, Eastern Manufacturing Com
pany; Everett, New England Gas and 
Coke Company; Niagara Falls, Car
borundum Company; Stamford, Conn., 
American Synthetic Color Company, 
and Northampton, near Allentown, 
j. a., Atlas Portland Cement Company. 
Each group will spend about six 
weeks at one of. the five stations, 
passing then to the others in regular 
order with equal stops at each one. 
This series of studies will last until 
September, and after a vacation of 
about four weeks the students will 
return to the instituto at the regular 
registration time to take a fifth-year 
of study, graduating the following 
June and receiving, together, the de
grees B. S. and M. S.
I MODERN SHOE REPAIRING G
All Work Guaranteed. Prompt Service, g
1 217i/2 ATWOOD STREET
ANDREW G. WIRTH
BOOKBINDING
Now is the time to subscribe to 
The Tartan for the balance of the 
year.
BINDING OF MAGAZINES AND RE
BINDING OF OLD BOOKS 
A SPECIALTY 
*109-111 FEDERAL STREET, N. S.
nit Mounn or,2GT9
10 PENCILALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the Victrola to Play Them on
NO MATTER WHAT COURSE 
YOURE TAKING YOU NEED 
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
. Because of the superlaA tive quality of material 
f\, and workmanship, VENUS 
/ \ is admittedly the finest 
BBS pencil it is possible to 
| make. 
jjEB If. you like a thick soft
lead that marks so that 
BP I you can reQd the writing BEsB half way across the room, 
choose the soft degrees 6B5B 
4B.
Fort short-hand notes or easy 
writing 3B2BB (medium soft) 
are popular.
For sketching, general writ
ing purposes, etc. I-IBFH rw 
2H (medium) will prove 
desirable. L-'
For drafting, a medium 
hard pencil gives the best resuits and youll like gijnfl
3H4H5H6H. wM
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7H8H 
9H are available, 
rprr Look for the distinctive 
IIILLwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
and medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and address and we shall 
be pleased to have 
sent to yU f r 
drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
MODERN DANCES
Classes and Privato
C*M0N
OVE ft.R. E. JAQUES
FORBES and CRAIG STREETS E
PITTSURGH
Many ^
Styles 
of Type 
and Many 
Languages
immnmmmmmminmimnmmmni
W. S. Hamnett, 08, who has been 
in charge of the Dallas (Texas) 
branch-of the Pittsburgh Testing 
Laboratory, now goes to be manager 
of the Philadelphia branch; Lewis 
E. Beeken, '10, becomes head of the 
Dallas laboratory, and Fred. E. Fos
ter, 08, has been for some time in 
charge of the St. Louis station.
In a hotly-contested game last 
Tuesday night the West Dorm team 
nosed out I. S. D. by a score of 24 
to 20 in six minutes over-time of 
play. The-, score was 3 points in 
favor of I. S. D., with less than one 
minute to play, when the Dorm men 
tied it up, and near the end of the 
second period of over-time play L. 
Jacobson shot two successive basDemonstrations 
at any time
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegians 
Change yonr type in an instant from one 
style to anotheror any language.
THE
MULTIPLEXGet that Tartan subscription NOW.635-37 Smithfield St., PITTSBURGH
cr^y , <%$*? .Two sets of type in each machine. 
Jut Turn the Knob Presto one or the other 
SimpleCompactPortable
Beautiful workbeyond compare. 
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val - Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant Bishop lohn G. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 East 69th Street 
New York Ci:y. N. Y.____________
ARE YOU DOING YOUR SHARE TO STRENGTHEN THE BOND?
YouMargaret Morrison girl, Industry man, Science man or De
sign manhave friends in all three of the other schools in 
whom you are interested
You desire to follow your teams through their training, their home 
and foreign gamesthrough all their victories and suc
cesses
You want to know about everything thats coming ofd around Tech 
while its News
Youa true Tech studentwill lend your support to any activity 
any movementwhich will promote the best and highest 
interests of Carnegie Tcch
Then
SUBSCRIBE FOR
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work In Ladles', Children's 
and Household Work. 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies t 
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hlland 
Works 4912 Hlland.
Nearest to Tech 
fj COR. CRAIG AND FORBES | 
0 FRED FARGEL, Proprietor [
| W. O. Breckon |
STUDIOS I
FOR HIRE,
3 Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince Alberts, 
etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT COMPANYa'J 6001-2-3 Jenkins Arcade
| Both Phones. Night Boll
Now that another school year has 
begun, why not mako It e point to 
care for your personal appeLrance and 
have your suits pressed regularly? 
We will call for your salt, press an( 
return It, all on the same day. Phont 
us and arrange the details. Schenley 
875.THE TARTAN
A BIG BIT FOR SIX BITS
FORBES AND ATWOOD ST0.
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTSJ . E. T. Shuman
Get the remaining issues of the first semester free.
12569335
08362333

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHE TARTAN-~W ..I, I bo
JANUARY 24, 1917
ONE DOLLAR THE BOX
1916 was the Ban
ner Year in the sale 
of R. V. B. Choco
lates.
It was far in the 
lead in all Points 
from which a Box of 
Chocolates could be 
judged.
SALES
QUALITY
APPEARANCE
E STUDENT LUNCHEON 1 
Milk or Coffee, 5c
Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
Ice Cream, 10c 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
Iroquois Block,
.ciiQjpyi3/nis/i3JciiEn3/3/i3/2ii3/2/5/n/s/nifi/Qy/Qi/ini3i
cP A TALBOT
Nciv G..WI
formfit COLLARS
arc curve cut to fit the 
shoulders perfectly
Cluctt, pcabocly ffiCorlnc.Oviikcrs
Forbes Quality 
Shop
PORBE0 and BOUQUET 0T0. 
LUNCH AND 80DA
(E/fflJHIlSJBllE/PJnii ^/3/iD rafTD/FJoirtD/nJ/r1)
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Boll Phono 239 Sohonloy. 
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furnlturo and Pinnoa. Gonoral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4016-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
is/^DjsJn/iiiiicys/snin^/sfi^ic/sisJs/cinjciJ/i/ic/fi-i
hempor
' COMMERCIAL.PHOTOGRAPHER,
^WOODCUTS,ZINC ETCHING,HALF-TONE ^
SS ENGRAVER SMMMJ
rcs^ 7IIPCNN AVC. tancfigSsm"dte
D f
ALPHA TAU INITIATES
ELEVEN MEN
Friday evening, the 19th, witnessed 
the initiation of eleven new mem
ber into Alpha Tau, the Industries 
School honorary fraternity. The ex
ercise were held in the Hotel 
Schenley and were followed by a 
banquet of generous proportion at 
which many of the old and new 
brothers spoke of the work the or
ganization represented.
Altogether 20 men were present. 
Dean Connelloy was unable to at
tend, but Mr. Hartman was on hand 
and Oiled the chair as toastmaster 
most successfully. Professor Leeds 
also represented the faculty of the 
school. The other, old members al 
the ceremonies were Messrs. R. W. 
Cost, C. H. Dowman, II. E. Fox, E. 
C. Hoye, S. H. Jones, K. H. Julian, 
C. K. Koontz, D. R. Koontz, C. H. 
McNary, H. W. Miller, F. J. 
O'Brien, N. Tramonte and R. J. 
Wean. The new men who entered at 
this time were Messrs. F. J. Buebler of the class of 1915, H. E. Loeffler, 
W. A. Star/, and G. W. Straclian of 
the class of 1916, and J. H. Chivers, 
W. D. Green, O. D. Kingsbury, W. 
II. Payne, C. E. Rutherford, B. C. 
Speicher and L. N. Strayer of the 
class of 1917.
The keynote of the speeches fol
lowing the banquet was service. The 
purpose of the organization is a four
fold one. It stands for scholarship 
in the School of Applied Industries, 
participation in Carnegie Tech activ
ities, and character in general. It 
endeavors to promote a spirit of 
fellowship among its members and 
of loyalty to the school for both 
their student days and their future 
status as alumni. It also seeks to 
establish a truer understanding in the 
outside world of the real function 
and purpose of Industries School. 
These matters were discussed and 
the response among the men augurs 
well for the years to come. ; As a 
young organization, Alpha Tau would 
seem destined to accomplish great 
deeds in its maturity and wield a 
most valuable influence in the fu
ture history of S. A. I. and Carnegie 
Tech.
ENGINEER LECTURES 
TO SCIENCE STUDENTS
General Electrical Engineer Storer 
of the Weslinghouse Company, ad
dressed the Science Students at Gen
eral Assembly last-5Wednesday. Prof 
Wurts introduced Mr. Storer and an
nounced his subject, Electric Rail
ways.
The lecture was instructive, non
technical and was supplemented by 
several slides and two reels of mo
tion pictures. In Mr. Storers' opin
ion, the electric engine will gradually 
but surely supercede the steam loco 
motive. An impetus to the general 
adoption of electric traction, particu
larly over distances under five bun 
dred miles, has been given by the 
Norfolk and Western, the N. Y., N 
H. and H. and Chicago and St. Paul 
railroads. For heavy traffic over 
grades and through tunnels, the elec
tric engine lias no superior.
There are few engineers . so well 
qualified as Mr. Storer to discuss 
the subject of electric traction. He 
lias devoted twenty-five years of 
study and practise to thTs proposi
tion, which is becoming more im
portant as time passes.
FACULTY TO ATTEMPT 
THE SOLUTION OF 
HIGH LIVING COST
Two suggestions have been pre
sented to the Faculty which may pro
duce results highly advantageous to 
the teaching force. These sugges
tions have just come up for discus
sion and should prove very interest
ing to the Faculty. Briefly, they are:
(1) Relations could undoubtedly be 
ostuhllshod with one or more large 
down-town storos by which members 
of the Institute stuff, approximately 
300 In number and with a purchas
ing power estimated at $250,000 per 
your, would receive a discount of 
about 10 per cent on all purchases. 
As an Individual, the status of a 
faculty member Is that ol! a retail 
buyer, but organized as a unit, the 
FacultyJ becomes a wholesale custom
er entitled to wholesale prices.
(2) A form of fraternal contribu
tory insurance might be instituted 
whereby, in the event of the death 
of any member of the teaching, ad
ministrative and ofllce staffs, the 
family would be put into possession 
of a ready relief fund of approxi
mately $500 to meet the unusual ex
penses which accumulate at such a 
crisis. The fund \voukl be raised by 
an assessment of about $2 from each 
member of the several staffs, one 
fund to be kept constantly in reserve, 
so as to be immediately available 
when a death occurs. Further in
formation may be secured front the 
registrar.
EAST LIBERTY
MUSIC STUDENTSGIVE CONEERT
The opening concert o the series 
of seven to be given by the students 
of the department of music in the 
theater of the School of Applied De
sign, was given on Friday afternoon 
before a fair-sized and appreciative 
audience.
The two ensemble numbers 
Beethovens Trio op. 97, Miss Hen
ning, piano; Mr. Brown, violin; Mr. 
Replogle, 'cello, and Haydns Varia
tions from Quartette No. 12, Miss 
Manor and Mr. .I-Ierzberg, violins; 
Mr. Brown, viola; Mr. Curry, cello 
were most enjoyable. Their ensemble 
was excellent and the idea of the 
composers was intelligently pre
sented.
The piano sonata in E minor, by 
Grieg, proved one' of the most in
teresting numbers, particularly the 
second and third movements. Miss 
Frances Levenson is to be congratu
lated upon her work in this number.
Mr. Horace Brown was heard in 
the Brahms "Sonata in A Major 
for violin. The performance was in 
accordance with the usual high artis
tic quality of. his work.
Another very pleasing number was 
the Beethoven Sonata in F Major 
Miss Dorothy Manor, violin; Miss 
Helen Esholman, piano. Miss Eslielmans playing was especially com
mendable, because of clean tech
nique and clear tone.
The program was very well ar 
ranged. The artistic interpretation 
of all the numbers reflects credit on 
the poriormers and speaks well of 
the careful training they are receiv
ing. Mr. OBrien is to be congratu
lated upon the evident efilclency of 
his teaching staff.
DEBATING SOCIETY PLANS 
FOR SECOND SEMESTER
ALLEGHENY WINS
HOT GAME 25-20
(Continued From Page One.) 
at last to make a well-rounded out 
five.
Abrams kept Tech in the running 
by his fine foul-shooting. Levy and 
Greene also played well, but were 
guarded so that they never had a 
good chance at the basket.
For the Methodists Volk, Kerr and 
Bianchi put up the best game. Volk's 
spectacular shooting savored of horse 
shoes concealed in both hands.
Tech, 20. Allegheny, 25.
Greene (capt.)....F.................. Shaner
Abrams ..............F...................... Kerr
Carey .................C.............. Stephens
Levy ...................G................. Bianchi
Finlay .................G...................... Volk
SubstitutionsFoxen for Greene; 
Lane for Stephens.
Field goalsVolk, 6; Shaner, 2; 
Bianchi, Carey, 3; Finlay.
FoulsAbrams, 12 out of 16; 
Volk, 1 out of 4; Kerr, 6 out of 13.
Score, first halfTech, 12; Alle
gheny, 6.
Game started, 9:12.
RefereeMauthe State.
TimekeeperHenning.
Time half.s, 20 minutes.
In point of scoring tile Tech squad 
ranks as follows, so far this season:
Abrams ..............................................28
Greene ............................................16
Finlay ................................................10
Levy ................................................. 8
Carey .............................................. 6
Gretzler ............................................ 2
RUTH ST. DENIS TALKS TO STUDENTS
In-the theater of the School of 
Applied Design on Wednesday morn
ing at 10:30, Miss Ruth St. Denis, 
the noted and talented dancer, with 
Mr. Ted Shawn, addressed the 
students of the four schools on 
What America Has Done "for the 
Dance. The statements by both 
Miss St. Denis and Mr. Shawn were 
very inspiring and interesting. The 
theater was filled with students.
NEW ENGLAN CLUB OFFICERS MEETING
Thursday evening, January 25, at 
7:30, the officers of the New England 
Club will hold session in Carnegie 
Union. A report from the commit
tee on bouse plans is expected and 
arrangements for club activities dur
ing the second semester will be com 
pleted.
G!?.l 1
(S/SJSMSii3JSn3Jt?ISII9MSI^MR!I3n?n?It?Ji?fi?lDiI0ISP 
FLOWERS for nil OCCASIONS |
RANDOLPH K McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS 
6036 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avcnuo
^c^n3ltP.i^fiifc}rD]rrOI3/@Iein5fcU51Jnircin5iein?iQ}JSIS!/ulf 
|5J5J5J5J51c!iSJ5J5!JBI5Jii!JE!J51c!J5J5I5Jn!I5M5JSISJHfiiy
Liberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co. j|
801 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Boll Phono Schonley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
-^rarafrajgjgjgjgjgjoiigjgjg] 
\ i /'
M. M. C. S. PROM WILL 
BE
The date for the M. M. C. S. Prom 
to be held at the Union has been set 
for February 1G. The committee con
sisting of the following heads: Miss 
Elizabeth Mason, chairman of the 
Junior Prom; Miss Helen Senn, of 
music; Miss Rachel Beatty of pro
gram; Miss Grace Crawford, of deco
rations, and Miss Helen Hllleary, of 
refreshments, are now very busy and 
promise tho best Junior Prom in the 
history of the school.
PROFESSOR SOLLOM IS STILL IN ENGLAND
A short time ago many cards were 
received from Professor Sollom, a 
former member of the Design Fac
ulty.
Professor Sollom is still in military 
training in England, but expects to 
leave for the front very soon.
The C. I. T. Debating Society has 
finished out its first semester and, 
while most of the period was spent 
in organizing and developing the con
stitution, still enough time was left 
for several spirited debates and djscugsions. Next semester will see the 
society in full swing and every mem
ber should be present at the meeting 
Friday, January 26, in Room 111 at 
4:30 for the election ol officers for. 
the next half year.
Much interest has been shown in 
the society by students of both the 
Design and Industry schools, and as 
membership. is open to all schools 
all men are cordially invited tq take 
part in its activities.
Tentative plans are formed for a 
debate with a nearby college, late in 
the spring, and Carnegie Tech, to 
keep its standard in this line on a 
par with that of athletics, should 
have the support of every man who 
has ever done any debating.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oftn 
as not told by his footwearif ho la 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you 
may be certain of looking all right) 
feeling all right and impressing oth* 
ers with the fact that you are all 
right. Our Shoes are built by som* 
of the most representative Shoo Man
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 to $81.11 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
5rAlfplf7gp^[7UfF3fair^ff^f^lHJrrlf^frUrH3jnT/pjfa^/^eU^Qirelf^Q^gdagJcgff^J^giMQjIlQjJ&QitHiEiiGiiej/g/gJ
IRON CIIY ELECTRIC CO r
6033 Broad St., E. E.
BATTERY
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
Repaired and RechargedSERVICE
G Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS.
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00
$200,000.00
I..................SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
I li DT 11 m nnnnHi nrnTiimmiT
g S '
NEW BLOSSOM RESTAURANT
GEORGE BROTHERS, Proprietors 
FIRST CLASS SERVICE HIGH GRADE COFFEE
We're Here To Please.
114-116 OAKLAND AVENUE
THE TURKISH 
~CIGARETTE
CHAS. F. KURZ
3802-4 Forbes Street |
EPittsburgh, Pa. E
ininUSMSMSMSMDlMS/cySMSMS/SMSMSMS)
|;l THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE |j 
SHOP IN OAKLAND
j | Is at ij
117 OAKLAND AVE.
WEAR-WELL SHOE 
REPAIRINGiSHOP
S9lWS
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH
409-413 Fifth Avenue 
B10-514 Smlthfleld Street 
406-410 Oliver Avenue
CAPITAL, SURPLUS AND 
PROFITS, $9,500,00
TOTAL RESOURCES OVER 
$95,000,000
LINCOLN R. GIBBS
i-i-II-'I'Km
IGeneral Subjects:-
Lecturer and University Professor at Asbury Church, Forbes 
and Murray, January 28-February 25
--------Notable Sunday Evening Sermon-Lectures--------------5
The Witness for Religion in Modern
Literature.
1 January 28Tennysons In Memoriam'or Faith and Bercavement.ijl February 4Brownings Saul or Deffimism.
|| February 11Lowells Sir Launfal or Finding Christ in 
Service.
February 18Christian Jesters in Writings of John Ruskin. 
February 25Faith and Poetry.
Special MusicUniversity Quartet, W. P. C. W. Glee 
Club, Amphion Society, Asbury Vested Choir.
ccnnfvxhJL 1/Ku/uLd'un^i GeAt'Ci^aAe.
Makers of the Highest Grade Turkish 
and Egyptian Cigarettes ui the Worid
03641636
