JR. PROM 
FRIDAY FEB. 3 
SCHENLEY HOTELaranti Hbtati
BUY CARNEGIE 
TECHNICAL 
JOURNAL
VOL. XVI. NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1922
ATHLETES AT 
PGH. CLAN 
LUNCHEON
NEXT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
TO BE HELD FEBRUARY 15
City Council Gives Assurance 
Of Their Interest In Carne
gie Tech  Collegiate Six 
Furnishes Music
The next general assembly will be 
held February 15, 1922, at-the Car
negie Music Hall, with an interesting 
program. It was originally planned 
to hold this assembly February S, but 
due to the fact that that week is the 
week of inspection trips, the Assembly 
was postponed.
CARNEGIE PRAISED
Certain generous spirited alumni 
.gave a banquet to the football, base
ball, track, cross-country, hockey, 
basket' ball, and tennis teams at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel last Saturday after
noon. It was a successthe eats were 
goodthe. entertainment very good 
the music while you eat better 
the speakers best. Aside *from that, 
the spirit was right there. In fact, 
everything that was needed to make 
the banquet a success was there with 
one exception, and that was Waily 
Steffen. Wally always adds a  lot 
to a gathering of that kind.
The music while you eat was fur
nished gratisno charge  voluntar
ilyby Everett Hughes Collegiate 
Six, and to call it good would be a 
case of not doing it justice, for, it 
was more, like the best. If you wanted 
to dancetwas good for that. If you 
wanted to merely listentwas good 
for that. Doc Taylor will vouch for 
the first claim. The whole gang will 
O. K. the second. Alabam New
man proved the last. - And, speaking 
of Doc Taylor and Alabam New
man, these two gents did quite a good 
bit of entertaining. Doc" was su-preme in his Dance of Death in 
which the adder in the form of a 
loud necktie gave the sting of death. 
Alabam was there' with the good 
Southern melody  Tuclcy Home, 
and "My Home in Tennessee.
The above entertainments were in
terspersed in the midst of a great 
array of speakers who altihougli 
pressed by time, managed to give 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Track Team to Compete 
Again at Penn Relays
Meet With Ohio State Also 
ArrangedOthers in View
Owing to the decision of tlie athletic authorities to surface the ath
letic field the 1922 spring track sched
ule of six important meets to have 
heen held in Pittsburgh has been up
set. At the present writing, however, 
two meets are assured. Tech will be 
represented in the annual Penn Re
lays at Philadelphia, April 30th, and 
at a dual meet with Ohio State on 
the Schenley Oval, April 13th. It is 
expected that events with Allegheny, 
W. & J., and West Virginia will be 
arranged within the near future. A 
meet with Dennison, previously arrnaged, had to be cancelled on ac
count of the condition of the athletic 
field..
It was also found impossible to 
schedule an event with the Navy on 
account of a conflict with Ohio iState. 
It is hoped nevertheless that a full 
track season can be arranged even if 
the team has to meet its opponents 
away from home more than it would 
like.
ADMINISTRATION ASKS
STUDENTS TO HEED SIGNS 
AND HELP IMPROVE CAMPUS
Students are requested to use the 
regular streets and paths in leaving 
or entering the campus.
The administration has gone to 
some trouble .and expense in repair
ing the lawns and it seems a pity to 
have them spoiled. A number of persons have the habit of crossing the 
lawn beside the corner of the library 
from Woodlawn to the cut. Of course 
it is a temptation to make this short
cut, but remember the good looking 
campus we all want and heed that 
pleading little sign, Please!
GIRLS GLEE CLUB 
OPENS SEASON
First Concert of Year to be 
Given at Bellevue ?ebruary Tenth
The Girls Glee Club, although it 
has been in modest retirement all 
year, has not been idle. No, indeed, 
the club, under the direction of Har
vey Gaul, has been hard at work, and 
is now ready to blossom forth in full 
bloom.
The first big concert of the season 
will be given February tenth, in Belle
vue under the auspices of the West
minster Guild and C. E. Society of 
the First Presbyterian Church. The 
Glee Club, Stringers and a reader 
combined, will make this a most at-' 
tractive and enjoyable program.
A great many people from school 
will want to attend, and tickets will 
be procurable at the door.
The girls have given one cofecert 
at the Marine Hospital this year, 
where they are always received with 
great enthusiasm.
SCIENCE STAG 
POSTPONED TO 
FEBRUARY 25
To Hold Election S'milar to 
Senior Hall of FameThe 
Usual Class Stunts to Be 
Given
TO AWARD PRIZES
PROMINENT ARCHITECT
TALKS AT ARTS
Thistles, For Quick Sale
There are just 'four more days in 
which to buy a 1922 Thistle. Regis
tration Day will find several Thistle 
salesmen on the job in order that all 
may have one last chance of placing 
an order for the Year Book.
As the work on the book prog
resses it becomes more and more cer
tain that this years book will far sur
pass all previous ones and will set a 
record that will be hard for any fu
ture boards to beat.
Pay the $2.50 down now and the 
other two when you get the book. It 
will be absolutely impossible to get a 
hook when they come out, so pay 
down ?2.50 now and the other $2.00 
when you get the book.
Registration DayLast Day.
SCIENCE JUNIOR CLASS HOLDS 
MEETING  COMMITTEES RE
PORT ON PROM AND SCIENCE 
SMOKER  
The Juniors in the College of En
gineering had their final meeting for 
this semester last Wednesday. The 
Junior Prom Committee reported 
that about 2G0 preliminary tickets 
had been sold and that this was 
more than enough to insure a suc
cessful Prom. The committee on 
the Science stag stunt reported that 
they had not as yet chosen a defin
ite stunt but had three or four in 
view.
There was a general discussion of 
combining the three school Junior 
classes in all events. This would 
cause much more unity between the 
different , colleges and would finally 
lead to ope Junior President. There 
has been \ considerable discussion on 
this subject by different classes and 
it is1 hoped that some decision will 
soon be arWv*'d. at.
Mr. E. Lee, prominent architect of 
Pittsburgh, representing the Pitts
burgh branch of the American Insti
tute of Architects! gave a lecture in 
the Architectural Department on the 
"Architect and the Community, Wed
nesday, January 25, at 1:30 p. m.
The talk was very interesting and 
of great value to the future architects. 
He congratulated the men on the 
course they had chosen and assured 
them that it was one of the finest pro
fessions from all views. He outlined 
the relative importance of office work 
and school work and also the interest 
the architect should take in his com
munity.
On Wednesday, February 8, Mr. R. 
M. Trimble, also a prominent archi
tect of Pittsburgh, will give a lecture 
on the Architect and the Owner.
JUNIOR TEA DANCE AT UNION
The Juniors still show their progres
siveness. Tea dances are quite tlie 
tiling now, and are not overlooked 
by them the least bit. On January 24, 
Tuesday, they held a real live dance 
the Union. About seventy-five 
couples were present, dancing to the 
music produced by five members of 
the Collegiate Six. Contrary to the 
definition of a tea dance, no tea nor 
any other refreshments were served. 
Nevertheless, everybody had a fine 
afternoon, for with good music and a 
good crowd, who would want anything 
else?-
One of the chief characteristics of 
the occasion was tag dancing. This 
method is quite efficient in; helping 
the fellows and girls to get acquaint
ed. These tea dances have been very 
successful in the past, at twenty-five 
cents a person, and the policy will be 
continued throughout the year.
The date of the Science Stag 
Smoker has been changed from the 
ISbh to the 25th of February.
The committee has been working 
hard on a program and the report is 
that it will be one of the best of the 
annual (Science Stag Smokers. They 
have a new idea. They feel that 
there are some men in Science who 
stand out from the others for some 
particular characteristic and should 
he given due recognition for it in one 
way or another at this smoker. So 
one week after exams these distin
guished gentlemen will be elected by 
ballot. EveryoneN in Science school 
gets a vote. In the meantime, cast 
your eyes around about you and 
search for those who stand out from 
others as being the most ladylike, the 
most handsome, the champion Mexi
can Athlete, the laziest guy. the 
brightest guy (thinks he is) and 
others of similar distinction. It will 
be similar to the Senior Hall of 
Fame except that everyone in Sci
ence School is eligible for office and 
has a vote and those who are elected 
will receive fitting prizes at the 
smoker. Come out and see who gets 
the blue ribbon derby.
Then there will be the regular 
class stunts and you who have at
tended a Science Stag Smoker be
fore know what they are. The Sophoihore class took the prize last year 
without much opposition, hut from 
reports there wi.il be keen competi
tion this year.
The usual announcement of the 
Tau Beta Pi pledges will be impos
sible this year because those eligible 
cannot be determined so soon after 
the first semester examinations.
PRELIMINARY TICKET SALE 
FOR JUNIOR PROM CLOSES. 
COMMITTEE ANOUNCES PATRONS
The i>alo of preliminary tickets .to 
the Junior Promclosed last Friday. 
Both Junior and Senior classes re
sponded to the ticket sale and the 
final returns show that it exceeds 
the quota set by the committee in 
their budget wkt^li had been revised, 
because of the Ishowiug made dur
ing the first week of the preliminary 
ticket salebut which now will
again be adopted. Final tickets will 
be sold in the Central building this 
week and at tho door the night of 
the Prom.
The following have been invited 
as patrons and patronesses:
Acting President Dr. Thomas' S. 
Baker.
Dean and Mrs. A. W. Tarbell.
Dean Laura B. Scales.
Director and Mrs. J. T. Morris.
Director and Mrs. E. R. Bossange.
Director and Mrs. W. E. Mott.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Lanahan.
The grand mar oh forms at 9 
o'fcloclc. It is revested that no 
corsages be worn this yearin keep
ing with tlie custom of previous 
years.
NEW BASEBALL 
FIELD READY 
BY SPRING
Baseball Nine Will Stage 
Games on Field to be Loca
ted Near CutImprove
ments On Old Field
CAFETERIA TO REMAIN
OPEN BETWEEN SEMESTERS
The Varsity Clan Cafeteria will re
main open betwon semesters and 
meals will be served at. the regular 
hours. Meals also will be served at 
the usual time during examination 
week.
MORE ARTS THEATER.
TICKETS FOR STUDENTS
WORK STARTS SOON
Georgia Tech Committe 
Visits Physics Dept.
Features of Various Physics 
Laboratories Studied by 
Committee
INDUSTRIES PLEBE CLASS
LEADERS APPOINTED
President Sawyer oR the Industries 
Freshman class has appointed a lead
er of each section who will take care 
of collecting dues. A fee of ten cents 
is due from each Freshman for the 
assembly collection, and an additional 
ten cents is to be collected for a fund 
to buy blankets for the football team. 
The Freshmen were told that it was 
customary for them to do this.
FINAL INTER-FRATFRN1TY 
SCHOLARSHIP STANDING
After the announcement on Jan
uary 11 of the fraternity scholarship 
standings of" last year, it developed 
that two men in different fraterni
ties had not been in attendance dur
ing the entire year. The question 
then arose as to whether these men 
should have been counted as frac
tions of a unit or a full unit. The 
Faculty Committee which originated 
the plan of awarding the fraternity 
cup was asked for an interpretation 
inasmuch as the originifl draft of 
the regulations did not cover this 
particular oase. The committee has 
ruled that the record of a member 
in attendance for the one semester 
of the college year should not be 
computed on the basis of the
On last Wednesday a committee 
from Georgia Tech visited our cam
pus and inspectod the Physics.De
partment. This committee was com
posed of Prof. J. B. Edwards, head 
of the Physics Department; Profes
sor Smith, lioad of tlie Architectural 
Department, and Mr. Perry, an alum
ni member of tho school. In connec
tion with this Inspection trip it is 
well to remember that Professor 
Boreman of our Physics Department 
was assistant professor of physics at 
Georgia Tech before coming here.
Georgia Teoh has securod an ap
propriation of about $300,000 fbr the 
purpose of building a now physics 
building. The committee is making 
a tour of tho dlfforont ^collogos and 
has visited the University of Penn
sylvania and the Bureau of Stand
ards. Among the other places to bo 
visited are Princeton, Columbia and 
Cornell. Thoy noted several good 
features in our laboratories and plan 
on having them incorporated in thoir 
new building.
BEAUX ARTS JUDGMENT
Last Wednesday, January 25, in 
New York, a Classi B judgment was 
held on tho present problem, A 
Casino.
The following men roceivod first 
mentions:
Landefold, Fritz, Taormina, Schell 
and Hinckley.
Thero was also ono II. C. and two 
stings.
On the same dato a judgmont 
was held on a Class C problem.
First montions wore glvon to Folsteln and Sonnoman, all othora 
celved Mentions.
College of Fine Arts Faculty 
To Hold Art Exhibit
An exhibition by members of the 
faculty of the College of Fine Arts 
will be held in galleries W. and N. 
of the Carnegie Institute from Feb
ruary 8 to February 26, inclusive. The 
purpose of the exhibition is to give 
} the public of Pittsburgh the opportire year but only for the period he j-unjj.y t0 gee examples of the work
Punishment Meted Out
To Industries Plebes
was in attendance. A third fratern
ity submitted an erroneous member
ship list. Therefore a revived and 
final scholarship list for 1920-21 has 
been prepared, and is given below:
Beta Theta PI ............................. 272.2
Delta Upsilon ............................ 258.5
Sigma Epsilon Phi...................... 257.5
Square & Compass Club.......... 2^2.3
Alpha Pi ......................................... 240.1
Tau Gamma Phi ..............y..... 238.2
Sigma Nil ..................................... 233.7
Phi Epsilon Pi.................. 230.5
Xi Sigma Upsilop. ................... 228.4
Theta Xi ....................................... 204.2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..................201.0
Woodlawn Club ..........................1S8.0
Iota Sigma Delta ........... 164.2
Delta Epsilon Omega.............. 152.5
Kappa Sigma ............................. 121.3
Kappa Sigma Rho ..-................. 56.2
A public trial of Plebes was held 
immediately after the last Industrie's 
assembly, Wednesday, January 25.
Three regulation-breaking Plebes 
were present and were dealt with 
according to the seriousness of their 
crime. The paddle was used in two 
cases. One disobedient Plebe is now 
wearing short pants and white stock
ings and another, a dress suit, as a 
result of judgment passed at this 
trial.
Plebes dressed in various costumes The Committee on Distinctive 
and displaying large posters adver-' Dress and Senior Privileges of the 
tising the Gambol of the Guilds t Senior Class reported at the meeting 
were exhibited before the assembly. 0t the Senior Class last Wednesday 
They were serving out sentences from that in their opinion no plan of dlsthe trial or tho week before. Iiutinctlve dress for the Senjora was 
promptu dancing and singing were feasible at this school, due to its lo*
COMMITTEE REPORTS
ON SENIOR PRIVILEGES
Baseball games will be played on 
the campus this season, owing to al
terations on Tech Field which will 
prevent its use until late in June. In 
order that students will not have to 
go far to witness the homo games, the 
new field will bo locatod on tho level 
spot bounded by Forbes street; the 
cut, the Library and tho bluff. Home 
plate will be located directly behind 
the Library and stands will bo erect
ed to accommodate tho rooters.
This field will be tho means of in
troducing a systoni new to Carnegie, 
but used by many colleges throughout 
the country. Up to this time Tech 
Field has been used for all team prac
tices and all out-door events, with tho 
result that It .is always in poor con
dition. Tills was especially notlcoablo during the football season, when 
the field resembled a lake of -mud 
more than anything olso in rainy 
weather.
The new system is to have a sepa
rate field for practice, and ono on 
which to play the gamos. Tho now 
field will bo tho ono used for practlco 
and Tech Field will bo used only for 
a few secret practices and tho games.
As soon as tho alterations on tho 
Hold are completed, j.t will bo soddod 
and woll taken caro of through tho 
summer . Thus it Is oxpoctod that for 
home gamos next fall, Carnogio will 
have a real gridiron, equal to that 
of any college In this section.
ARCHITECTS DESIGN CASINO
That tho cliarettors of tho Archi
tectural Doi&irtmont aro determined 
to enpturo tho gold modal for Car* 
negio Tech for tho season 1921-1022 
was proven by tho results of tho last, 
judgmont In Now York. FIvo Juniors 
wore awarded first montions on a do
sigli of A Casino and two Sopho
mores also received nrst mentions on 
A Commomoratlvo Monument. Tho 
Juniors whoso doslgns wore picked 
for tho first mentions were: J. Fritz,
T. I-Ilnckley, C/Llndofold, A Taormina 
and It. Scholl, while tho fortunate 
Sophomores wore A. Folstoln and K. 
Sonnorman.
INTERESTING SPEAKERS AT 
TEKN0N CLUB MEETING
also part of the program.
MENORAH SOCIETY NEWS
On Thursday, Feb. 2, Rabbi Stephen 
S. Wise of Free Synagogue, New 
York, will deliver an address to the 
people of Pittsburgh under the aus
pices of the Menorali Society at Rodeph Shalem Temple.
The society is indeed fortunate to 
have a man like Dr. Wise to speak 
to them and therefore urges that 
all be out for the meeting, which will 
start promptly at 7:45 p. m. A mu
sical treat will precede the address. 
All are welcome to attend,
cation in such a large city as Plasburgh.
In place of tho distinctive dress 
plan the committee Introduced the 
idea of Senior Privileges. They 
stated that the design for a Senior 
Fence to extend between Margaret 
Morrison building and the hut v/aa 
being worked upon by the architects 
in Design School. Another idea was 
that of having a Senior section in 
assembly and on the athletic field.
The Committee reported that as 
soon as examinations are over they 
will start to work on these plans and 
that they will have something defin
ite to report in the near future.
of the faculty of the various depart
ments.
Every evening of the week and on 
Saturday and Sunday afternoons, fac
ulty members will be present to give 
information concerning the exhibits 
and the work undertaken by the Col
lege of Fine Arts. In addition short 
lectures and musical programs will 
be given.
A Symphony Concert by the orches
tra of the College of Fine Arts, con
ducted by Professor O'Brien will be 
given in Music Hall, Carnegie Insti
tute, on Sunday, February twelfth, at 
8:15 p. m. For tickets apply to the 
Secretary of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Tuesday, February 7, PRIVATE 
REVIEW. Music, 8 p. m., Gallery M.
Wednesday, February 8Mr. Ashe 
in charge. Music, 8 p. m., Gallery 
N-3.
Thursday, February 9Miss Can
field in charge. Lecture, Art and 
Happiness, Mr. Bossange. Gallery M, 
8 p. m.
Friday, Februaiy 10Mr, MacGilvary in charge. Music, 8 p. m Gal
lery N-3.
Saturday, February 11  (afternoon)
, Miss Topn in charge.
Saturday, Februaiy 11 (evening) 
Mr. Bayard In charge. Lecture "Dri* 
signing Bridges, Mr. IIornboHtel. Gal
lery N-2, 8 j). m.
Sunday, February 12 (afternoon) 
Mr. Wallace In charge. Symphony 
Orchestra Concert, Music Hall, 8:15 
p. m.
Monday, February 13Mr. Bicknoll 
in charge.
Tuesday, February 14Mr. Wyckoff in charge. Lecture, Scene' De
sign, Mr. Stevens. Gallery N-3, 8 p. 
m.
Wednesday, February 15  Mr, 
Readio in cahrge; Music, 8 p. m. Gal
lery N-3. j
(Continued n Page Four.)
Last Thursday at Tolcnon Club 
mooting Mr. Robort Wilder addroaaod 
tho club on tho subject of tho Stu
dent Voluntoor Movomont. Mr. Wil
der la gonoral secretary of the Stu
dent Voluntoor Movomont and has 
boon Intorostod In Mission and Vol
unteer work all his llfo, having boon 
born and roared In India. Ho has just, 
roturnod from Southern Europe and 
will leavo shortly for China In tho 
intoroat of tho Student Volunteer 
Movement. Tho point that ho empha
sized in hia talk was tho urgent need 
of young collogo-bred Americans in 
the Foreign Fiold and, tho vaat 
amount of good they could do.
There will be no meeting of the 
Teknon Club next Thursday, Febru
ary 2nd.
In tho future arrangements will 
bo made for students of tho Institute 
to receive a larger number of tick
ets to tho plays in the theater than 
has been possiible. in tho past. The 
week of February 6 two plays' by 
Molire will be given. A limited 
number of tickets for these perform
ances will be reserved. for the stu
dents. Those who wish tickets 
should arrange to. come to the Of
fice of the Sooretary early in tho 
week. The plays will bo repeated 
seyeral. evenings during' the wfeek 
of tlio twentieth of February. After 
February 15 tickets for these per
formances may be secured at tho 
Secretarys Office.
GAMBOL OF GUILDS 
ALL TECH DANCE
Collegiate Nine to Furnish the 
MusicSome Novel Souv
enirs Promised
The Gambol of the Guilds, annual 
dance, given by tho Division of In
dustries, will bo hold Tuesday even
ing, February 21. All Carneglo Toch 
students aro invited. Most of us re
member tho success of tho Gambol 
held last year. This year It will bo 
hold tho day before a holiday. With 
achool work put aside tho attendance 
should bo large. Tho "Collegiate 
Nine will furnish tho music. Some 
novol aouvonirs will bo glvon to the 
girls. The place whoro tho danco will 
bo held has not been definitely decid
ed on.
PLAID T0SSERS 
DEFEATED BY 
GROVE CITY
Red and Black Even Score of 
Previous Defeat  Neither 
Team Shows Form  No 
Individual Starring'
GAME LACKS THRILL.
Grove iCttys basket ball tossors 
evened up things last Saturday night 
when they dofeatod tho Tartan five, 
32 to 20. at Motoi* Square Garden. 
The game was rather slow and un
interesting during tlio first half, 
with a noticeable absence of tho 
usual thrills. Both teams seemed to 
be off lorni and did not display 
their usual snappy team work. How
ever, Grove City showed to tho best 
advantage through its closo guard
ing and more nOouratc shooting.
Tho Plaid tossors did not come up 
to their old form in passing and 
shooting. Most of their shots wore 
from tlio center of the floor. Allen, 
with, his fast floor Avork, was easily 
tlio star of the Skibo team while 
Fos.tor with four field goals, showed 
best for tho Red and White. The 
lineup:
Carnegie Tech20. Grovo City32.
Doseyi ...................F.............. Fleming
Newman ..............F.................. Foster
Potter ..................C................ Abriyns
Boll ......................G...........-... Shorts
Alien .....................G.......... Stophanian
Substitutions'Sawyor for Dosoy, 
Dosey for Sawyer, * Smith for Floming, Bible for Foster. Fiold goals 
Bell 8, Alien 2, Newman 1, Potter 1, 
Foster 4, Shorts1 2, Stophanian 2, 
Abrams 1, Smith 1, Bible 1. Foul 
goals-Dosoy, 10 out of 111; Foster, 
9 out of 14; Newman, 2 out of 4, 
Shorts, 1 out of I; Allen, none out 
of 2. RoioroeJBoIstor. TJmlpiro
Wetzel.
FORGE DEPARTMENT
INSPECTION TRIPS
During the past someater, the Jun
iors of the worka management de
partment of the machine production 
course have taken several Interesting 
inapection tripa to various manufac
turing plants. Industrial firms were 
visited where general forge work and 
production methods could be observ
ed which were relative to the work 
and study in the forge department at 
school. Pittsburgh and vicinity, with 
its many varieties of ateel production 
affords many opportunities for obser
vation and no less than six large 
plans were inspected.
Before each trip, a < lecture was 
given relating to the methods of pro
duction to be viewed on the trip ar^d 
this information coupled with train
ing of the Freshman and Sophomore 
years in forge work and heat treat
ment of ateel, gave the student t/n ex
cellent conception of the connection 
between theory and work learned in 
our forge department and actual prac
tice in thla branch of the manufac
turing world,
The trips proved very bnficia!, 
for as the student saw the processes 
such as tho puddling, the Boanomor 
and the open hearth manufacture of 
stool, chain making, rolling heavy 
press and drop forgo work, and effi
cient method of manufacture, he 
could realize tho value of concentrat
ed training In forgo .work.
PHI NU HOLDS FIFTH
ANNUAL BANQUFT
During tho past woolc examina
tions in tho Night Col logo of Engi
neering havo hold sway, Llttlo of 
note has transpired out. of tho clai 
rooms.
Tho Night Scihool Fraternity, Phi 
Nu (formerly Klanlcht), held Its 
fifth annual banquot; at tho Fori. Pitt 
Hotel rocontly. Preceding the din
ner, the .11 rat honorary inembor of 
Phi Nu was Installdi An enjoyable 
evening was spent, by all present. 
Tho affair eumo to rr. oloao by tho 
singing of Tooh songs by all,
It will bo of Intoroat to nlghl; f.-In
dents to know that two of thoir 
class-mon havo joined tho ranks of 
tlie boned lets, namolyi Mossrs. H. 0 
Hanson and Albort -IT. Shafor, both 
of tho Mechanical Engineering group. 
Mr. Hanson la still continuing his 
course of study, whllo Mr. Shafer 
lias found It nocossary to discontinue 
his classes temporarily. Wo take 
this occasion to congratulate both 
of Lheso men upon thoir venture in 
tho sea of matrimony and wish thorn 
both a safe and prosperous voyage 
through llfo.
DATE OF WESTMINSTER
GAME MAY BE CHANGED
Westminster was originally sched
uled for the Motor Square Gardon on 
Thursday evening, February 2nd. Duo 
to a conflict, .thla game will either bo j 
played at the Motor Square Gardon 
on Wednesday evening, February 1, 
or Thursday evening, February 2, in 
the Tech Gymnaaium. Watch tho 
campua for notice as to when and 
where thla game will bo played. Not 
only .notice, but take hoed, and be 
there, whenever or wherever the 
game will be played.
Shilling Recognized by 
Student Activities Board
Committees Appointed and 
Reports Presented
The Shilling, a co-ed publication re
ceived recognition from tlie Student 
Activities Hoard at. Its meeting on 
Wednesday evening and will now bo 
recognized an ono ol! the subsidiaries 
of that Board.
Tho matter of a new stage for tho 
Union was referred to a gonoral com
mittee for Investigation, This com
mittee will malte Inquiries as to tho 
correct size advisable as well as tho 
cost ontallod In building ono.
The Board also decided that tho 
now Carnogio banner bo loaned by 
Miss Bird of Dean Tarbolls, on tho* 
nomo basis as tho Musical Club ban
ner.
Permission for tho use of the Union 
by tho Scalp and Blade Club wan 
tabled pending action of tho Student 
Council.
Such matters as selection of now 
Musical Club loader, Investigation of 
permanent files for records of S. A. 
B and Student Council, and Invita
tions for Musical Giuba concorta woro 
all referred to eommlttooa.
Inspection Trip Schedule
Girls Basket Ball Team Starts 
Practice for Game With Thiel
STUDENT VOLUNTEER
CLUB TO MEET
Have you aeen or heard that 
crowd of girls that has been practic
ing each day in the boys gym?. 
There have been many fast, furloua 
(practices held the past two weeks, 
each girl on the 8quad fighting t her 
hardest to win a place on the team. 
The squad includes Anna Anderson, 
Florence Montgomery, Helen Thom
as, Jean Ealaln, Isay Winner, Helen 
Reed, Eleanor Graver, Marion Saull, 
Ann Dougherty, Roy Fine, Ruth Sny
der, Catherine Hodldnson, Florence
A now system liua been started in 
regard to giving tho students in the 
different departments of tho Division 
of Science and Engineering a pr-ao 
tical ineight of the varioua indus
tries.
Inspection brips have been sched
uled for the Mechanics, Electricals, 
Chemicala, Commercials, Civile and 
Metallurgists and Miners.
The' schedules have been nearly 
all completed. They are:
SENIOR MECHANICALS
Monday, February 0All day, Duquesno Steel Company.
Wednesday, A. M.  Duquesno 
Light (Brunots Island.)
Wednesday P. M.Duqueane Light 
(Rankin at.)
Friday, A. M.U. S. Glass Com
pany (South Side.)
Friday, P. M.Union Switch and 
Signal Company, Pittsburgh.
JUNIOR MECHANICALS
Monday, February 0, A. M.Asplnwall Pumping Station, Aspinwall, 
Pa.
Hills, Miriam Bond, Peg Taylor, Ma-, Monday| February ,0, P. M.-Union 
;bel Hiller, Margaret Marlcey and ig-wftch and Signal Company.
'Wednesday, A. M,Oliver 
Plant (downtown.)
We<l nos d ay P. M.Gaz e Ito
Helen Doughory,
Mlsa Bowman, the coaoh, is highly 
pleased at the work that has been 
done and coil fosses that It will bo (downtown,)
no easy task to ohooso the right Friday, A. M.Pittsburgh Motor 
combination with so many fighting Company (Pittsburgh.)
Friday, P. M. -U. S. Glass Com
pany (South Sldo.)
for a place. Tho cut In tho squad 
will bo made this week and then 
Intensive team work will bo In or
der. Even "Burt" Munhall, who has 
been an Interested spectator at all
practices, Is all popped up and Is
rooting hard Cor the girls.
The schedule Is as follows: 
February 0Thiel, Tech Gym.
Tlie Student Volunteer of CarneFebruary 18-Geneva, thero prelim
gle Tech will hold a meeting at the to men's varsity game.
Oakland Community House at 3:00 February 24  Westminster, at
p.- m., Friday, to discuss plans for j Westminster.
the coming year. All interested are I March 4Westminster, Tech Gym,
invited. I March 18Thiel, at Thiel.
80PH0M0RE MECHANICALS
Monday, February (!, A., M.Ford 
Company, Assembly Plant.
Monday P. M.Jonos k Lauglilln 
Steel Company (South Side:)
Wednesday, A. M.Gazette Times.
Wednesday, P. M.Oliver Power 
Plant.
Friday, A. M.U. S. Glass Com
pany.
Frida v. P. M. Relek-McJunkin 
Bottling Works.
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1922
a? smooth as any one had a right to 
expect.
The "Unrecorded Tale, by Robert 
Hanna, was the third offering. It is a 
melodrama of the Chu-Chin-Chow 
type supposed to he the one thousand 
and second tale of that prolific au
thoress Scheherazada and relates the 
adventures of an Unjust Sultan, a 
Damsel in Distress and a Wicked 
Crone. Miss Floyd played the Crone 
in!elllgently ^and Mr. Paquin was 
amusing as a door-keeper. Miss Kauf
man and Mr. Herz, in the characters 
of the fierce Guardian of the Gate, 
and tlie Damsel In Distress seemed 
scarcely at ease, which uneasiness 
must have been appreciably increased 
by costumes that seem to have been 
designed with comic intent. How 
could the most accomplished actor 
seem fierce in patent leather bath
ing trunks and bare legs; or the 
greatest actress look vpry romantic 
clad in a series of battered purple 
lamp-shades.
COMMENTSROAMINS
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.You cram. You sit up late. Formu
lae and equations become your diet. 
The hours go by. Tho zero hour ap
proaches. Mimeograph sheets hound 
you in your dreams. Your head Js 
filled with knowledge. You hesitate 
to talk lest you disturb the arrange
ment of matter. The Big Ben rings. 
Your breakfast you fall to enjoy. The 
morning paper appears as a mass of 
formulae, The headline reads "Final 
Exam in Mechanics" and you shudder 
at the outcome. After much labor you 
reach school. Your knees are al
ready beginning to play to the tune of 
Home Sweet Home' Tho Prof. passes 
you in the hall with a look, of im
pending victory. Yea, even the walls 
themselves /bemoan your destiny. 
First bell rings. Ten more minuteB 
but to you ten hours of waiting. At 
last the door opens. You file in with 
your brothers in misery. The blue 
books are all in place. The little 
mimoograph sheet peaks from be
neath the cover. You hesitate to open 
it. Your iears are now at their 
zenith. You unfold and read it 
through. 1--28yes, all ten ques
tions and you discover it is just what 
you studied the night before. Oh, 
Boy! Aint, it a Grand and Glorious 
Feeling.
(By William Hard)
The principal teaching proffered to 
tho public this week by tho Washing
ton Conference Is that we may now 
look forward In tho Far Fast to a 
really perfected era of complicated 
joint International action In China, 
with an International committee or 
commission or board or bench for 
just about each and every separate 
Individual Chinese woo. The Board 
of Reference now contemplated by 
thtf Conference for tho potential ad
justmentor, at any rate, potential 
consideration - - of questions arising 
out of tho application of the prin
ciple of the open door and of foreign 
equality of business opportunity in 
China will bo presumably a long lived 
body. The commission on what Is to 
bo done about foreign troops in China 
and the commission on what is to bo 
done about foreign law courts in 
China and the assembly of foreign 
makers of tho Chinese tariff inight 
also last for some time in their pres
ent proposed form or in sonto other 
form, in view of the fact that the 
woes /which they are to abate they 
will probably abate without extin
guishing, and since the Chinese will 
more or less applaud them as abators 
and then uninterruptedly demand 
that they go on* to be extinguishers; 
if. in not unreasonable to believe that 
they or their successors will continue 
until China is swept clean of all for
eign administrative political intru
sions whatsoever.
Tho moment of the peak of (imperi
alism now shows us on the other side 
of the peak a peculiarly perpendicu
lar precipice. Joint international ac
tion is demanded by the contraction 
of the world through the improve-1 
ment in the facilities of travel and of 
communication and it iB demanded 
by the Increasing intei-deiiendonce of 
the countries of the world Ln the mat
ter of natural resources and of man
ufactured commodities. But joint in
ternational action among the strong 
is bound to bring forth exactly, what 
Rabindranath Tagore of India last 
Friday mentioned in his memorable 
comment on the work of the confer
ence. It is bound to bring forth a 
joining of minds among the weak. 
The Moroccan or tho Annamese who 
is dominated no matter how benevo
lently iby France, the Egyptian or the 
Indian, who is dominated no matter 
how benevolently by Britain, the Fil
ippino, who is dominated no matter 
how superhumanly benevolently by 
tho Unitod States, the Korean who 
has incurred the Japanese imitation 
of white imperial benevolent domi
nance, are all of them now bountl to 
feel the current of a common cause 
flowing from the Atlantic Moroccan 
const through all Northern Africa and 
across tho whol6 of Western and 
Southern and Eastern Asia to tlie 
islands of tho Pacific in answer to 
the apparent common cause of the 
groat nations which they will bellevo 
are leaguing themselves together in 
Far Eastern troatios and in Far East
ern committees and commissions not 
to modify thoir dominance, hut to 
fortify it.
Tho theory that all those hundreds 
of millions of pooplo can bo persuad
ed that our purpose Is really ono of 
modification will bo advanced. It will 
be advanced in periodicals which 
those hundreds of millions of pooplo 
do not road. Tho Orlont will know 
simply that Britain and Franco and 
a morion and Japan aro joined In ,llu> 
Orient, Why aro thoy Joined? They 
aro joined ln order to provont quar
rels among thomsolvos. It is a most 
laudable, a most, necosnary, object. 
But, what aro the quarrels about? Tho 
quarrels are about, things In regions 
which they foroignly dominate. And 
how do they propose to abate those1 
quarrols? Not by withdrawing from 
those roglons, but. by establishing eon: 
loronoos and commissions In thorn. It.; 
may be argued justly that the conforoiiOGB and commissions are natural 
and honorable and Inevitable. It re
mains true that conferrlngs and oommunicatings botwoon pooplos In com
mon subordination to dominant loagued peoples will bo natural and hon
orable and inevitable. We shall see 
tho clash of tho inevitabilities. The 
Washington Conference forwards tho 
freeing of the Orient. If tho nations 
in tho Washington Conference simply 
retired, from the Orient the Orient 
might relapse into its own ancient 
despotisms. The Washington Confer
ence abolishes that prospect. It con: 
fronts 1116 Orient with a concert of 
powers whicli can be resisted only 
by a concert of awakened peoples. It 
assuages the clash between the pow
ers. It hastens the day of a confer
ence in the Orient for assuaging the 
clash between the powers and the 
peoples. It could ask no larger des
tiny.
Entered in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh as soconi-class matter.
Editor-in-ChlofFREDERICK L. KNOWLESTolophono, Hazol 398
Business ManagerWILLIAM R. MILLSTelephoneSchonloy 9211
Managing EditorVIC. II. STROMQUIST
Asfjoclato Editor
Associato EditorJj. J. WIIITEIIIflAD
.. News Editor 
Athlotic Editor
EDWARD A. BRAND
II. F. SIMPSON,
... Photograph or 
Exchange EditorR. H. GUYTON 
O. A. DJCKMAN
ERRATA
t The Women's Junior Prom is for 
all Coj-eds not M. M. C. C. as stated 
in the last issue of The Tartan.
Tapping is the name given to a 
new practice at the University of 
California. Any girl appearing on 
the campus with too' short a skirt, 
too much rouge, too thin a blouse or 
other vampist features, is tapped 
on the shoulder -by a member of the 
new committee and asked to reform.Roamcr wishes to voice. Resent
ment at the discouraging. Criticism 
hurled at the venders of. Each new 
issue of the Technical Journal. A 
service unseen by undergrada. Is of
fered in Pof. Esteps article. And 
more we hear are to follow. The stu
dent articles while 'not exhaustive. 
Are written so that he, who runs may 
lead. While technical in nature. The 
issue strikes a happy medium. And' 
the. plebe can understand. As well as 
the senior. Because it is not too tech
nical. Ill venture to say. That those 
who rave. Would not turn a hand. 
To the dotting of an i. So wait 'till 
they get out. And see how fast the 
swelling comes out. Of the heads of 
those who criticize.
Its neatly gotten up. Has very 
good cuts. Tho we'd like to hear 
more of the arts. (Sb bury that 
hatchet. And quit your knocking. For 
by comparison, Carnegie. Has a real 
Technical Journal.
This is for the ladles as well as 
the gentlemen. Wlipn your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it. 'Our work is the 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes. street.
Tartan OlllcoRoom B-A, Industries Building. lce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.__________________
YOUR SHARE
Arc you getting your slmrc! Or rather are you taking your 
Hliiiru oJC what the school and its surrounding afford you? Many 
oi: us aro of tlie typo that lots opportunity slip by without grasping 
it.
Do you enjoy the privileges that tlie school affords yon, that the 
various organisations grant tlvo student? Do you deprive yourseil. 
and your developing mind oi! listening to tlie men and women ot 
learning who address the students at Chapel? Does General Assem
bly find you absent? Are you getting all you can out of your course 
by joining the various departmental clubs? Have athletic events no 
attraction for you? Do you enjoy the quiet atmosphere of the Li
brary J1 ut ? Docs tho Y club room afford you a quiet study ? Are you 
sufficiently talented to join the Musical Clubs.or the Band? Have 
you no desire to develop your ability by writing for the various 
publications? Do you shun committee work?
In short do you get all you are entitled to during your period 
of education?. Ij! not, then you arc not getting your share. You pre 
missing JuilJ! of what tlie school affords you.
Tho 'Washington theater catastrophe furnishes a suitable excuse 
for those who persist in missing General Assembly.
Whether the Seniors pay that extra $5.00 on registration will 
depend largely upon this weeks work.
Tlie committoe on Senior privileges is busy working up'pluns for 
next years Senior class.
The Plebe carrying tho dico may be said to be loaded down by 
Iris sin.
Things keep on going bad for just so long, thenthey get worse.
Some Promask thc^nan who paid $8.5Q for a ticket.
The Degree Bin#an echo from the past.
6100 PENN AVENUE
In an attempt to recover 
some of the heavy loss Athletic 
Calendars will be sold Registra
tion Day at $1.00.
This is below costl
The Calendar is a cleverly 
got up piece of art work, con
taining the photographs of ail 
the teams for the past year.
An excellent souvenir.
......JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
BELL PHONE
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
| Oakland Community House |
TAKE YOUR CHOICE 1
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.I
i Pool Tournament. 1
Latest magazines. 
Study room. @
Play and sing. I
Club, frat or committee meetings. 1
Just visit. |
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes.............................10:00 A. M. |
Quiet......................................Sunday afternoon |
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young peoples meeting............5:30-7:30 P. M. |
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and
Community House 1
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS
Speaking of boosting. Theres a 
song contest on. And the committee 
is looking for copy. It your holding 
back your song. Cause you know' It 
wont be an Alma Mater. And you 
wont be the whole cbeeBe. Get out 
of Carnegie. Your a slacker. Send it 
in and help fill the book. We need 
Bome spirited songs badly. Which 
reminds Roamer. That there is a mu
sic department. Connected with the 
school, ln name at least. They turn, 
out songs lor a musical comedy. Let 
them try their hands at the contest. 
And show they are worth something. 
To Carnegie.
ROAMER.
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hills Exclusive Dining 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. ! 
Squirrel Hill.
Hazel 9373.
uttuttttttmmutnmtmtmmtttmttti
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARYARTS THEATER
Calendar of Student Events
SEE US 
About our Special Offer 
Four Suits Pressed $1.50. 
AIKEN FORBES TAILORING 
COMPANY 
5817 FORBES STREET 
Phone Hazel 3601
Of tho three short plays which the 
Department of Drama presented liist 
Tuesday, tho first and the most im
portant was Maeterllcks Death of 
Tihtagiles. Whether these shadowy 
dramas for marionettes as the au
thor himself has entitled them, are 
suitable for production upon tho stage 
in a debatahlo question, though the 
present performance proved at least 
that one of them if playod sincerely 
and simply without too much stress 
on tho symbolism Is capable of hold
ing an average andlonco.
No ono who had watched Miss 
Lowe's previous appearances was 
prepared for tho admirable perform
ance sho gave of the part of Ygralne. 
As several of the scenes aro practi
cally monologues, the burden of the 
play fell on her shoulders, and she 
bore it nobly. The opening scone was 
perhaps playod with a little more in
tensity than tho text warranted, but 
her performance was marked 
throughout with sincerity and a real 
feeling for tho mood of the play. Both 
she and Miss Harmon, as Bellangere, 
looked like some lovely mysterious 
princesses of mediaeval legend. Miss 
Osborne made a pathetic figure of the 
little Tintagileo and Mr. Lazarus 
played one of those helpless, doleful 
| old men without which no play of 
Maeterlinck would be complete. The 
three handmaidens of the Queen, 
Miss Zeiip., Miss Skurlcay and Miss 
Gray, costumed cleverly by Miss Co
hen, made an impressive group.
It is hard to1 understand why the 
first scene should be played in the 
dark. The characters talk of seeing 
the sea and the distant castle, but 
actually they could not have seen a 
yard before their noses. This dark
ness was not to hide deficiencies in 
the scenery as Mr. Mudgetts fine ar
rangement in the subsequent scenes 
of heavy black velvet curtains on 
either side of a massive triangular 
door did much to help the atmos
phere of the play.
The second item on the bill was 
that ever interesting thing the first 
Freslimban shows  The plays, Tne 
Prince Who Was a Piper, is a harm
less and amiable trille chosen prob
ably to supply the largest number 
possible of actors with parts. As the 
piece was double-cast throughout, it 
gave tho public an opportunity of 
seeing the Work of almost tho entire 
Freshman cla,sa.
If any justification of tho Drama 
Department wore necessary a com
parison between tho Freshman play, 
any Freshman play thoy havo a strong 
family resemblanceand the same 
class in its second year would sup
ply it. In tho first year, voicos play 
queer tricks on their owners, move
ments have a curious abruptness 
hands and feet seem over life-size, 
everyone appoars conscious of being 
on show. The Freshman play last 
Tuesday was at least as good as 
other Freshman plays. There was lit
tle to choose between the two casts. 
Both showed evidence of careful re
hearsal and gave a thoroughly con
scientious performaifhe, which went
MU RAD
TWO THECARW NAGIEOTTO
Every day MURADS art held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They never disappointnever 
failnever change
They are 100% pure Turkish to
baccoof the finest varieties grown.
You are proud to smoke them 
in any companyon any occasion.
They are the largest selling highgrade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
Judge for Yourself! 
rison Sophomores for the excellent 
afternoon given them.
ARKANSAS DELEGATE
APPOINTED
I-Tortense Purdy, a member of the 
Junior class and a member of the 
Y. W. C. A. cabinet has been appoint
ed by tho cabinet as tlie Carnegie 
Tech representative to the Nationnl 
Y. W. C. A, convention at Hot. Springs, 
Arkansas, to bo held in April of this 
year.
Tho convention will moot for ten 
days as a body composed of city, 
county, Industrial and student associ
ations affiliated as tho National Y. 
W. C. A. students will roprosont. 
every college in tho country ln which 
an association exists. Miss Purdy will 
represent Carnegie Tech to the girls 
and women of the Unitod States. 
Many countries of the world will also 
he represented in tho foreign stu
dents and workers now in America.
M. M. C. NEWS
MARGARET MORRISON SOPH
OMORES GIVE TEA DANCE
NOTICE
All members of tho Mid-West Club 
are asked to be on the lookout for 
the calling of a special meeting early 
in the next week.
iUsin'J-Ai

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1. 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANTHREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Inter-Fraternity Dormitory Basket Ball
SCHEDULE OF GAMES
COURT NUMBER 1COURT NUMBER
Tuesday, February 7, 1922
7:00Delta Epsilon Omega vs. Kappa Sigma. 
7:30Phi Epsilon Pi vs. Delta Phi Delta.
Wednesday, February 8, 1922 
7:00Kappa Sigma Rlio vs. Beta Theta Pi. 7:00Iota Sigma Delta vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.
7:30Boss Hall vs. Sigma Epsilon Phi. 7:30Delta Upsilon vs. Square and Compass.
7:00Scobell Hall vs. Alpha Pi.
7:30Henderson Hall vs. Sigma Nu.
\
7:00Xi Sigma Upsilon vs. Woodlawn. 
7:30Scobell Hall vs. S. A. E.
Thursday, February 9, 1922
7:00Delta Epsilon Omega vs. Theta Tau. 
7:30Tau Gamma Phi vs. Delta Phi Delta.
Tuesday, February 14, 1922 
7:00Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Xi Sigma Upsilon. 7:00Phi Epsilon Pi vs. Theta Tau.
7:30Sigma Nu vs. Sigma Epsilon Phi. 7:30Delta Mu vs. S. A. E.\
Wednesday. February 15, 1922
7:00Beta Theta Pi vs. Alpha Pi.
7:30Iota Sigma Delta vs. Henderson Hall. '
7:00D. E. O. vs. Delta Phi Delta.
7:30Boss Hall vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.
Thursday, February 16, 1922 
7:00Delta Upsilon vs. Sigma Epsilon Phi." 7:00Kappa Sigma vs. Theta Tau.
7:30Scobell Hall vs.- Xi Sigma Epsilon. 7:30Woodlawn vs. Kappa Sigma Rho.
Wednesday, February 22, 1922 
7:00Henderson Hall vs. Sigma Epsilon Phi. 7:00Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Alpha Pi.
7:30Kappa'Sigma vs. Delta Phi Delta. 7:30Sigma Nu vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.
Thursday, February 23, 1922 
7:00Boss Hall vs. Iota Sigma Delta. 7:00Phi Epsilon Pi vs. Theta Xi.
7:30 S. A. E. vs. Woodlawn Club. 7:30Tau Gamma Phi vs. Theta Tau.
Tuesday, February 28, 1922 
7:00Henderson Hall vs. Pi Kappa Alpha. 7:00Delta Mu vs. Alpha Pi.
7:30Sigma Nu vs. Iota Sigma Delta. 7:30Theta Xi vs. Delta Phi Delta.
Wednesday, March 1, 1922
7:00Boss Hall vs. Square and Compass. 
7:30Delta Mu vs. Beta Theta Pi.
7:00Xi Sigma Upsilon vs. Alpha Pi. 
7:30Boss Hall vs. Delta Upsilon.
7:00Delta Upsilon vs. Pi Kappa Alpha. 
7:30Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Scobell Hall.
Tuesday, March 7, 1922
7:00Beta Theta Pi vs. S. A. E.
7:30Delta Epsilon Omega vs. Theta Xi.
Thursday, March 9, 1922
7:00Xi Sigma Upsilon vs. Delta Mtl. 7:00Sigma Epsilson Phi vs. Iota Sigma Delta.
7:30Sigma Nu vs. Square and Compass. . 7:30Beta Theta Pi vs. Woodlawn.
Tuesday, March 14, 1922
7:00Delta Mu vs. Scobell Hall. -
7:30Sigma Epsilon Phi vs. Square and Compass.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
IS IT POSSIBLE?
It setims as if the basket ball team should have done bettor.
From what has gone before, it is known that they can do bettor. 
Admitting that the team played "over their heads in the L*afnyettQ 
game, it does not seem as if their normal form should show as much differ
ence as was shown between the Lafayette and home Wash-Jeff and Grove 
City games.
The Plaid Screen thinks that one word might be largely instrumental. 
That word is over-work.
Wash-Jeff seems to have the "liorse-sign over us! Lucky dogs! Well, 
their days are overhorse shoes for them are at a premium now. 'cause 
Spring Sports are coming. Then, W. & J., well get you in tennis, baseball 
and track.
How do you expect to get concerted cheering when you sit anywhere? 
Get togethersit in a group! What is the use of a cheer-leader when you 
do otherwise? Give the cheer-leaders the chance they come out there for!
ALUMNI SPIRIT
Certain generous, spirited alumni certainly have set a good example 
for the students to follow. Last Saturday they entertained the atlilotos of 
the school in a most fitting manner. Such treatment as this can have no 
other effect but good on these men who are doing so much for the glory and 
good name of Carnegie Tech.
Lets get in line and follow this example set by the Pittsburgh Clan.
THIS, FAR FROM THE IMPOSSIBLE
On looking over some Tartans of two years ago, came upon two with 
headlines like this: "SIXTEEN CONSECUTIVE VICTORIES and "FIVE
VICTORIES FOR TECH.
These headlines canie at the conclusion of the 1020 season of spring 
sports, and include victories of tennis, baseball and track. One of. the tennis 
victories was over Syracuse, ut. that time NewYork State champions. The 
track victories included West Virginia and West Virginia Wesleyan. Three 
of the baseball victories were over Grove City, Juniata and the Collegians.
That was a great record. But at that was not so great that it cant be 
repeated. Why not tbs spring? We have the tennis team. Wo have the 
track team. And, heres to a fond hope that the baseball team will be hero.
You spring sport men, be inspired, and act accordingly!
Tartan Plebes Defeat Peabody Tech Passers Lose
FOUND  Two fountain pens; 1 
muff. Inquire at the Office of tho 
Dean of Men.
The Truest End of Life.
The truest end of life Is to know the 
life that never ends.William Penn.
Stetson Footwear
Made for Young 
Men Who 
Demand the Best
Scotch Grain Saddle Strap Waterproof welt, Soft Toe Box, 
tions on Heel, Vamp and Toe. Regular price $13.
January Clean-Up Price..................................................^4^
P. Ludebuehl 6v Son
Penn and Frankstown East Liberty
O. K. RESTAURANT. 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
PhoneCourt 3556
Hornis Wagner Sporting Goods Company
| 438 WOOD STREET
aSporting Goods of Every Description.
Liberal Discounts to Students.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................*200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
I: SKI BO INN IJ, Vi; Remodeled and ;j.
!; Enlarged |
JR.POM
i: WHOLESOME ?
5 FOOD 
6 Served at best prices |
W CIGARS CANDY ;!I* , 
6W .W0TWeerTW0
W
HEN you come' to apply for that 
job lets hope the chief will say:
/Hes a hard workerclean cutwell ed
ucatedwith a scientific bentand he i
knows his way round, because he smokes
cMclachrino
The Cigarette Elect 0/All Nations"
Remember thatMelachrino is amasterblend 
of the finest Turkish Tobaccos as originated 
by MiltiadesMelachrino. Egyptian cigarettes 
are simply those that originated in Egypt. 
But the tobacco is what you want to know 
aboutand if its Melachrlnoits right.
GETTING READY FOR THE FALL
Work 011 the new football field has starteda chute is being placed from 
the wall around the Mellon Hall property to the field. Cinders will be drop
ped down this, and scattered over tho field.
As work is started on this project, attention is also directed to tho sug
gested plan of a practice field, entirely different from tho playing one. This 
is a plan of President I-Iamerschlags, and is worthy of recognition. Ho sug
gests another Held bo laid out on tho "cut for practice, leaving tho now 0110 
for playing purposes only, and theroby at all times keeping it in porlect con
dition, thus eliminating such spectacles as water-polo games in lieu of foot
ball games when the latter are scheduled to take place.
The plan of playing the baseball games tills spring 011 a diamond laid
out on the "cut lias been approved. There is 110 reason why this should not
be carried further and have football practice there too.
TIS ALL VERY SIMPLE
The Freshman basket ball team lost to the Skibo Olympics.
Twould be hard to explain were it not known that tlio star of tho 
Olympics was none other than the Freshman coach. And yet, tho Freslunan 
center wondered why his signals failed to work. But, at that, our lrlond, 
"Bob Waddell, played a great game.
Carnegie Toch Plebes annexod 
their third win out of throe starts 
as a strictly Plebo team at the ex
pense of Peabody High School last 
Tuesday afternoon on Peabodys 
iloor.
For some unknown reason the Pea
body management had billed the 
game as a "practice affair, and this 
so struck the Plebes that they 
turned the game into a regular prac
tice sessiou. Tho Plebes, ho\vove:\ 
did most, of the practicing and turn
ed in au easy victory, 32 to 13.
Tho Plebes were out-weighed, out
stripped in height, and, in fact, out* 
everything but out-played and outscored. Led by "Kid Murray of 
Arts, who dropped seven through tho 
ring, the Plebes ran riot. Peabody 
had tho edge in fighting spirit, how
ever, as it seemed several times that 
their spirit would find outlet through 
personal combats. Outside of that 
tho game was a fast exhibition. 
Botih sides were guilty of roughing 
it to some extent.
The work of Murray was the most 
spectacular part of the game, I10 
scaring 21 points for tho Plebes. 
However, the floor work of "Midgo 
Matter, who seemed to be every
where, and Oles caimot be overlook
edand for that matter, the guards, 
Brook and Ivoppes, deserve a word 
of credit, for only three field goals, 
and all of them long shots, were! 
registered against them.
With two minutes to go, an en
tire new team was put in to work 
up a sweat, and they showed up 
well during the time, they were in 
action.
For Peabody tliero wero no out
standing stars, as thoy had no, 
chance to sliirio In any way.i Stew
ard, the lanky centor, made a. good 
showing at the foul line, onco ho 
was given a chance, ringing four out 
of fivo froo throws. Tho rest of 
tho team iliowed up well, except 111 
tho mattor of offense arid defense.
The lineup:
Tech Plebes32. Peabody Hi13.
Murray ................F............... Bluestone
Matter .................F............... Murdock
Olos ......................C................... Stewart
Brook ...................G.............. y... Hitts
Ivoppos ................G......... McLaughlin
RESULTS LAST WEEK
GAMES IN INTER-FRAT 
DORM BASKET BALL LEAGUE
American League.
Beta Theta 1M 21, Scobell Hall 9.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 21, XI Sigma 
Upsilon 
National League.
Henderson Hall 18, Square and 
Compass 10.
Iota Sigma Delta 11), Delta Upsi
lon 9.
Federal League.
Kappa Sigma 21,. Theta Vi 17.
Tau Gamma Phi 18, Pill Epsilon 
PI 5.
Tau Gumma Phi 17, Delta Epsilon 
Omega 8.
DAVIS THEATER
Gus Edwards' new "Song Re-Vi\o of 
1921/ with Gus Edwards himself, Is 
to be the hoadlino attraction In tho 
all-star Keith vaudovillo bill at the 
Davis Theater twice-a-day, beginning 
Monday afternoon, January 30. Mr. 
Edwards will bo supported by a cast 
of twenty newly found proteges, in
cluding Allco and Hazel Furness and 
Chester Fredericks,
Wilfred Clarke, a nephew of tho 
late Edwin Booth, and a legitimate 
actor of international reputation, will 
be assisted by Grace Menlc and a 
company of five in "Now, What? a 
lively one-act farce.
Flannigan &. Morrison are to enter
tain with a new comedy conception in 
which an interchange of smart dia
logue is interrupted by topical songs 
and some dancing. "Sandy McGre
gor, the little Scottish immigrant, 
who is called "The Wee I-Iarry Lad
der," will give impersonations and 
sing the folk songs of the highlands. 
Swor Brothers witli a brand new line 
of Negro dialogue, stories and songs, 
interspersed with eccentric dancing, 
promises to be one of the laughing 
hits of the bill. Ella Branda with her 
big equestrienne act from the Barnum & Bailey Circus, will give the 
program the tang and the thrill of 
the sawdust arena. James Burke & 
Eleanor Durkin in a melange of dit
ties and patter called "A Tote-a-tete 
in Song, and other attractive spe
cialties, in addition to News Motion 
Pictures are other numbers of the
HONUS WAGNER TO COACH 
PLAID BASEBALL THIS
SEASONOLD MEN BACK
Wo of Carnogio Tbcli rojoico to 
learn that Honus Wngnor of Piratical 
fame, will be back amongst us to 
whip our crew of diamond artists 
into Shape. Ton men of last years 
squad will lie 011 hand when tlio..calI 
is mado. Notable among tlioso are 
Ray and1 Joo Doherty, Captain Harry 
Durkin, A1 Irwin, Rod Gbddun, 
"Sklnney iVIcCaw, Warrick, Hodlund, 
Robertson and Cappo, Sovoral of tho 
above distinguished thomsolves on 
tho gridiron.
Among tlio now moil are Sawyor 
and Nowman, both of football and 
baslcot ball fame, and Smith and 
Moessner. Furthermore, twenty-four 
Freshmen from Sclenco havo already 
signified .thoir, intention (it coming 
out for baseball. Notices aro up on 
various bulletin boards for prospec
tive candidates to sign. If you can 
play baseball, or think you can, lo't 
Manager Bob Nation know It.
Coach Bob Waddell Is optimistic 
and sees 110 roason why Tech should 
not turn put a winning team. "Honus 
in a telophono interview, was a bit 
reticent'but far from pessimistic In 
'his utterances. Ho expects to come 
out In a few weeks to get himself 
in shape by romping around with 
some of tho kids (Doc Marks, Hal Ri
dings, et al). Tho schedule has al
ready been published in tho Tartan. 
But we should like to call your at
tention to the faqt that Penn State 
plays Tech here 011 May 25.
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
W. Va. Wes....
Allegheny ........
W. Va. Wes...: 
W. Va. Wes..
Wash-Jeff ____
Pitt ...............
Duquesne U.. . 
Keyser Colgns 
St. Bonaventure
Thiel ..............
GAME
33)Marietta ...........23
Alfred ............21
Morris I-Iarvey.. 19
Fairmont .........23
Bethany .-.....14
Allegheny 
Westminster . 
West Va. U... 
Westminster . 
Westminster .
THIS WEEK
bill that will contrive to maintain the 
Keith standard of excellence arid va
riety.
STANDING OF LEAGUES
IN INTERFRATERNITY DORM BASKET BALLLEAGUE
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Games. Won.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .............................................. 3 3
Beta Theta Pi .......................................................... 2 2
Woodlawn Club ........................................................ 2 2
Kappa Sigma Rho ..................................................... 2 1
Alpha Pi ............................................................... 1 0
Xi Sigma Upsilon ...................................................... 2 0
Scobell Hall ............................................................... 2 0
Delta Mu ..................................................................... 2 0
NATIONAL LEEGUE
Games. Won.
Sigma Nu .................................................................... 2 2
Iota Sigma Delta ...................................................... 2 2
Pi Kappa Alpha ........................................................ 1 1
lioss Hall ............................................................... 2 1
Delta Upsilon ............................................................ 3 1
Henderson Hall ......................................................... 3 1
Sigma Epsilon Phi .............................................. 1 0
Square and Compass ................................................. 2 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Gamco. Won.
Kappa Sigma .............................................................. 3 3
Theta Tau .................................................................... 1 1
Tau Gamma Phi ......................................................... 4 3
Delta Epsilon Omega ............................................... 2 1
Delta Phi Delta..............(......................................... 1 0
Theta Xi ......... .........)........................................... 2 0
Phi Epsilon Pi .................j........................................ 3 0
Lost.
0
0
0
1
1
2
2
2
Lost.
0
0
0
1
2
2
1
2
Loot.
0
0
1
1
1
2
3
Pet.
1.000
1.000
1.000
.500
.000
.000
.000
.000
Pet.
1,000
1.000
1.000
.500
.883
.888
.000
.000
Pet.
1.000
1.000
.750
.500
.000
.000
.000
Rifle Team Loses to Syracuse
Tlio Carnogio Rlilo Team lost to 
Syracuse Inst woek by ilio scoro of 
89G to 92*1 in a prone-standing 
match. Tliolofent of tho team wan 
duo ! to ovo(rlldioneo following the 
Harvard match of tho )\reok before.
Tlio lineuip:
TECH
Grimm ...........................................188
Bylor .............................................182
iHamlll ...........................................178
Ward .............................................177
Thompson ....................................170
Total .........................................89(1
. SYRACUSE 
Prlnkolpaugli ...............................191
Day .................................................188
Watkins .......................................185
White ..........................................180
Lovo .............................180
Total ..........................................J)2'l
"The next matchos will bo with Le
high and Yalq tho lattor part or
the riionth.
Again to W. & J.
Bow For Second Time This 
Year to Old Rivals
Washington & Jefferson made it a 
clean sweep of her basket ball gamos 
with Carnegie Tech this year by. de
feating the Plaid last Thursday by 
the closo score of 32-29.
Tho game was exciting throughout, 
with fast passing by Wnshington-.TefC 
predominating. Shooting of both 
teams was badly off, with that of 
Carnegie showing to the greater dis
advantage. Both teams shot in hardluok, the ball time and time again 
rolling around the ring, only to fall 
out, while 011 the otlior hand, at times 
the shooting bordered upon tho spec
tacular; especially so when Eaton for 
Wash-Jeff rung up two from closo to 
the middle of llie floor, aud little off 
to the side.
"Buckets Boll played a great 
game for Carnegie, his guarding rang
ing upon the spectacular, when time 
and time again by leaps into the air, 
I10 blocked well-directed shots. Allen 
also camo in for his part of the good 
work, Ills floor game and passing be
ing probably the best 011 the floor. 
I-Iis shooting was his best exhibition 
of the' season, and if kept up will 
rank him as 0110 of the best in the 
district. Credit must also be given 
to Newman for his gritty game as 
he has been sick for the past few 
days, and really should not have been 
on the floor.
For Wash-Jeff.1 the whole team 
played good, which is the reason they 
won the gamo. Their passing was 
fast and nfcourato, and at times, be
wildering. Their shooting, while not 
ui> to tho standard as generally soon 
In these parts, was withal, good 
enough to win, especially so when 
tho plaid was shooting so poorly.
In Cecil Coon, Wash-Jeff possesses 
a good foul shooter, who was guilty 
or missing only two throughout tho 
gamo. In Saunders at center isi an
other good man, wild railed very few 
times to got tho tip-off.
Tho gamo startod with a. rush by 
Washington and Jefferson with thom 
going into tho load boforo Carnogio 
could got their hands on tho ball, af
ter which t.lioy procoodod to tlo tho 
count at, 8-8. From then 011, tlio 
gamo was anybodys, tho score hover 
being Hoparatod by.moro than tliroo 
points, the half ending with tho count 
at. 10-18; The socond half was a repe
tition of tho first, with tho ncoro soeaawlng hack and forth.
Wash-Jeff play tho snmo team 
throughout tho gamo, hut Cnrnoglo 
iound It. nooosnnry to substitute for 
Nbwnuip arrn after tho start of tho 
game and of tho second hall. Ander
son and Sawyor played good whllo in 
tlio gnmo.
the gnmo was cleanly played, and 
only n few fouln wore called.
Tho llnoup:
Carnogio Todli Wash-Jeff
Dosoy ....................F..................... Eaton
Nowman ...............F............... 0, Conn
Potter .................0............... Saunders
Boll ......................G..................... Lynlo
Allen .....................U............... K. Conn
Flod (loaln-Dofiey 2, Nowman 2, 
Allen 5, Sawyer, Eaton 4, C. Conn :i, 
Lynlo, 1C. Conn 8. Foul Goals -C. 
Conn 10 out of 12, Dono 9 out of 15. 
Substitutions Anderson for New
man, Nowman for Anderson, Sawyor 
for Nowman. RofoVco..Bolster.
um mumm
ANDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 1 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
^Mllllillll[lllll[l[||IM 'll!ll!llllliiil|[lllllllllll[|llillll[|MI[llllllll[IIIIIIIM^
JAPANESE TOWER
CHATEAU DE LOEKEN, BRUSSELS, BELGIUM 
Equipped with Otis Elevators
T
HIS ij part cf the summer home of 
Leopold the 8eco::d, late King of the 
Belgians. It stands in the B'-ypl Parc cf t!:e 
Chateau de Loeken, suburb of Brussels,
In the homes and palaces of kings j in the 
public buildings thatpeasant use5 in the 
gigantic temple of commerce j in romitrir:i 
<:i eternal sunshine or those where nif;!:'.;i 
are months long  everywhere tlio C'.'.s 
organization stretches out its hand to provides 
vertical transportation.
A circle embracing Otin activities would 
circtumcribc the earth, for world service is 
the aim of Otis.
Mont of the fatuous huititiuf.s of the 1 
aie equipped with Oth Elevators
orld
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Office In all Principal Cities .of the World 
of meri, 
nrough th*

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, la22
ALUMNI PAGE
had l)oon ratified by throe of! them 
and therefore became effective Januury 11).
Federation Party.
Several member or till commit
tee an appointed -were unable to 
fierve. Mr. Aspinwall wan named In 
place of Mr, Johnson and Mr. Halne 
In place of Mr. May.
Drama Production^.
A. letter from Dr. Baker announce 
that he ha arranged to have one per
formance each month reuorvod for 
Alumni for tho remainder of tho cur
rent year whin a more at!factory 
uohemo may perhaps be worked out!
8tationory.
Thl committee had nothing defin
ite to report.
Ring Committee.
Till committee reported progress.
On motion mooting adjournod.
Alumni Federation 
Board Holds Meeting
Friday, P. M.Wed. Lab. Group 
meet in Technical section for in. 
struction in reference work.
Watch Commercial Bulletin Board. 
Junior Commercials will visit the 
R. D. Nutall Gear Manufacturing 
Company.
 Report at 8:30, Monday, February 
6, Room SOI.
NEW CONSTITUTION OF 
ALUMNI FEDERATION ADMITS 
FACULTY TO MEMBERSHIP
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAE
CLAN NEWSDont forget the Valentine Dance 
on February 14th in the Rec Hall. 
Dinner will be served in the cafe
teria at G: 45 p. m., and we promise 
you it will be a good one. Dancing will 
begin at 8:30. "Ev Hughes and his 
jazz artists will furnish the music. 
Tax for the dinner and dance will be 
$2.50 per couple, for dancing alone, 
$1.50 per couple. Tickets may be se
cured from Marion Keefer, Margaret 
Morrison College, and reservations 
for the dinner MUST be made Febru
ary 10 th.
Faculty Membership in Alumni 
Federation: The Alumni Federation 
in drawing up the new Constitution 
some time ago recognized he inter
est of the faculty in the future of Car
negie Tech and made provision for 
their membership in tho Alumni Fed
eration as associates. Article 3, Sec
tion 1, Paragraph B, of the By-Laws, 
reads as follows:
"Any person who has been a mem
ber of the faculty or administrative 
staff for one year shall >be eligible 
for associate membership in the as
sociation. Paragraph C of the same 
section defines t/he privileges of such 
members: Associate members in
good standing are entitled to all priv
ileges and benefits of the association 
Including eligibility to membership 
on the Federation Board, but are not 
eligible to hold office on the Board. 
The Alumni Federation urges all 
members of the faculty and adminis
trative staff who are qualified, to 
join the Alumni Federation so that 
the unison of interests and (efforts 
may be a means of our arriving at 
oUr ultimate goal in harmony. At the ' 
present time the dues are $2.00 per 
year, which includes subscription to 
the Tartan and Alumnus. The fiscal 
year runs from May 31 to June 1. Ap
plication blanks for associate mem
bership may be obtained at the 
Alumni Office.
For the past two months the Secretary J. A. Cameron assure 
Alumni Office ha heard nothing from every Techlte that they will be mlsstbe following Clan: Akron, Boston, Ing tho greatefiL get-together meeting 
Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Hartford, ever if they are not present. 
Huntington, Johnstown and Norfolk.
The Alumni Office 1 very anxious 
to hoar from tho above and urges that 
you got together for a meeting at tho 
earliest posHlblo date. Letters have 
been sent to each delinquent Clan, 
but so far have brought no responso.
If the present secretaries are not on 
the job then wo hope that some of 
the Interested Alumni will call an 
early mooting. Do not let the other 
Ohms got ahead of you. It Is your 
duty to exert every effort in promot
ing tills Interest for Carnegie, and wo 
expect It of you as an Alumnus of 
this institution. Our best moans of 
keeping in touch wi'Mi out of Pitts
burgh Alumni Is through tho various 
Clans and if you are not on the job 
and aront willing to co-oporate, then 
it "becomes vory difficult for us to 
keep informed about the Alumni. We 
are trying to do everything in our 
power to keep our various Clan or
ganizations intact and to lessen our 
worries and burdens you should boost 
and keep alive the Alumni Clans in 
your district. The Alumni Office is 
always ready to serve. Let us know 
if we can help you. Send a -letter in 
at onqe, informing us the progress 
your Clan has made and the plans 
you have in view for the future.
Wake up and get on the job.
Special Performances at The 
Little Arts Theatre For 
Carnegie AlumniBUFFALO CLAN
A letter ha just been received 
from Mr. W. H. Rleger stating that 
the Buffalo Clan expects to have a 
mooting soon. This Clan has all the 
opportunities of being a great factor 
In alumni work and we may expect 
to hear more of ttyem soon, Details 
of their meeting will be published in 
a later issue.
Again the M. M. A. A. leads the pro
cession of paid up members. How
ever, we are not very proud of this 
record because we ought to have a 
very much larger number than we 
have. Many of our most faithful 
members are guilty of procrastination 
this year. Whats the answer, girls?
Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not only inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as
sist you materially.
We welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
HARRISBURG CLAN
Luncheons' are Held every Friday 
at the Penn-I-Iarris Hotel. All visit
ing Teohltes are cordially invited to 
attend.Student Council Decides Matter 
of Degree Rings."
Student Council please take notlceThe Constitution Committee, con-, 
sisting of Sue Smith, Rachel Beatty, 
Florence Bechtel and Mrs. Gaston, 
met last week and began the work of 
revising the M. M. A. A. Constitution 
to make it conform to the Federation 
Constitution which we ratified at our 
last annual meeting. Can anyone 
imagine a more delightful way to 
spends an evening?
CINCINNATI CLAN
A letter just received from Miss 
Mary L. Zarobsky, Secretary of the 
Cincinnati Clan, tells of their meet
ing held January 20. The dinner was 
given in the I-Iavlin Hotel. The fol
lowing members werfe present: Mr. 
Kirkpatrick, the honor guest, Mr. and 
Mrs. 'Sherman Conrad, William Ball, 
Jr., Elizabeth Gltt, Amy .Tonap, Wal
ter Keaghy, W. F Kelly, Phyllis McMarlin, Elizabeth Porter, G. C. Smith, 
Marion Pitchel Weihl, and Mary Zar
obsky. Much credit for the success 
of this dinner was due to Miss McMarJin, who was in charge of the ar
rangements. A clipping from tlie 
Cincinnati paper reads as follows:
Actor is Guest
Carnegie Tech Clan of Southwest
ern Ohio and Northern Kentucky 
gave a dinner at Havlin Hotel, Friday 
In honor of Hubbard Kirkpatrick, ap
pearing at Grand Opera House with 
the Declassee Company. Kirkpatrick 
is a graduate of Carnegie Tech.
INDOOR SPORT
l-l A R R Y  S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
Invitations, tickets, programs, fa
vors, pennants, pillow lops, otc,, may 
be ordered through Singer Pen & 
Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
Query: Where are all the skaters 
who last fall were so anxious to have 
a skating party? And all tills lovely 
ice going to waste! This party, it was 
agreed, would have to be an im
promptu affair owing to the unreli
ability of the weather, so any one who 
feels the urge may start the ball roll
ing at any time when weather condi
tions are propitious.
FACULTY PERSONALS
Dr. Baker attended the meeting of 
the Association of College Presidents 
of Pennsylvania at Harrisburg, Jan
uary 27th, at which a recent action 
of the Association of Colleges and 
Preparatory Schools of the Middle 
States and Maryland was' considered. 
A commission of the latter associa
tion has recently prepared a list of 
colleges of Pennsylvania which are 
approved by the association and a list 
of colleges which, under certain con
ditions may be approved later. By 
inference those colleges not on these 
two lists are placed in a lower class. 
This report has created wide-spread 
comment, and the Association of Col
lege Presidents has . gone on record 
as disapproving of it. It is hoped 
that a serious breach between the 
two associations 'may be avoided.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
The regular hionthly meeting will 
'be held the third Monday of each 
month at 7:30 p. m., at the Y. M. C.Do You Need Extra Courses?Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcapondvnca. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
NEW YORK CLAN.
On to New York for the annual 
meeting in tho Green Room of the 
MacAlpin Hotel Saturday, February 
25. Tills will bo tho best i meeting 
ever and a letter just received fromSty? Imupraitg nf (Eljiragn
NOTICEI
All visiting Carnegie Tech men and 
women are cordially invited to at
tend the different meetings.
HOME STUDY DEPT.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service........11:00 A,M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service....... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.It tooky EARS VE ARS to developCAMEL
QUALITY
ATHLETES AT PGH.
CLAN LUNCHEON
(Continued From Page One.) 
many good messages to the alumni 
and students of Carnegie Tech for
tunate enough to be present. Pete 
DeMntli acted as Master of Cere
monies and did a good job of it. He 
first culled upon Judge Joseph Buf
fington who responded with a speech, 
which was just as good as the' best. 
Ho touched upon the national and 
international scope of Carnegie Tech, 
of the over-willingness of the City 
Council to aid the Technical schools, 
of the doubts In Andrew Carnegies 
mind as to the feasibility of the 
school, and of the ovor-throw of .these 
doubts; of tho expansion of the scope 
of tho schools activities, crowned by 
the recent awards io tho Architec
ture School of a gold medal of the 
Socit des Architectes Diplomas par 
io Gouvernement Franais. He closed 
by saying Mint Pittsburgh Is becom
ing known not for its industrial activ
ities alone, but now also for Its spirlttuil things, as music art, education, 
etc.
Dr. Baker, acting prosldont of tho 
Technical Instltuto, and Ex-Doan Con
nelly of tho College of Industries ex
pressed their rogrets through the me
dium of letters.
Daniel Winters, tho newly elected 
president of tlio City Council echoed 
Judge Buffington's statement as to 
the over-willingness of the City Coun
cil to aid Carnegie Tech, and even 
wont a little further in saying that 
Carnegie Tech would be given the 
benefit of tho douht, and that if Car
negie Tech was in the wrong, tho 
other fellows would have to prove it. 
Ho further said it was. a good thing 
for the school to have members of 
the City Council as trusteesthe 
reason, very evident, he left to Rob
ert Garland, another trustee and 
member of the City Council to ex
press.
Mr. John Herron gave a personal 
tribute to President Hamersclilag, 
showing Qiis tireless effort spent in 
building up the Institute of Technol
ogy, and convincing prospective stu
dents whereby they could he bene
fited by attending. To President 
Hamersclilag much of the credit for 
Carnegie Techs phenomenal growth 
is due.
Mr. McArdle, in his speech, made 
an appeal for a broad use of the ben
efits acquired by attending such a 
school as Carnegie Tech. He did not 
care whether or not your activities 
were confined to Pittsburgh in the 
future, only so far as you did a good 
work.
Mr. Frank Lanalian, and Mr. Henry 
Hornbostel furnished their quota to 
the speech making, and were enjoyed 
fully because of their sincerity.
Among the students noticed at the 
various tables were: Taylor, Zelt, An
derson, Brumbaugh, Mills, Robertson,1 
Wlormiin, Blesch, Comfort, Goddon, 
liable, Henderson Irwin Nowman, 
Potter, Rosenbloom, Farrell, Sprinkle, 
Stromqujst, Pittman, Simpson, Ave, 
Wliit, "Bert" Munlmll, Moessnor, 
Tomnioll Copley, Novlllo, Schwartz, 
1\ 1. Smith, Schmortz, McCaw, R. 
Dohorty, Durkin, Warrick, Millor, 
Greenlaw, Kelly, Dykeman, Tubbs, 
Thomas, Gotham, Cavott, Andrews, 
Allen, Bell, Carew, Gallagher. Coach 
Iddings, John Kolley, Lockwood, Hil
ler, Sch111inger, Stiiltz, Byler and Ar
nold.
Tho following mombors of the 
Pittsburgh Clan were instrumental 
in the success of tho affair, as they 
wgre on the committee working it 
up: P. J. DeMutli. E. Dowling, Lee 
j Irwin, G. L. Tilbroolc. J. C. Hobbs, D. 
j Casey Thomas Kelly. Miss Helen 
, Stewart. Miss Becktel, Buddy 
! Ove-end. Bid King, Walton, J. P.
I Fisher. C. i Little, J. B. Sprague, 
Jack King. R. Haaren, M. D. Scott
Director Mott, of the College of En
gineering, attended the annual meet
ing of the American Society of Civil 
Engineers, in session from Wednes
day to Friday of last week, at the En
gineering Headquarters, New York 
City. X
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party7 Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
FifaHi Avemmo Boot Shop'
. near >1Uth Street, New York.
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
We worked on Camels for years before we 
put them on the market. Years of testing 
blendingexperimenting with the worlds 
choicest tobaccos.
And now, EVERY DAY, all our skill, manu
facturing experience and lifelong knowledge 
of fine tobaccos are concentrated on making 
Camel the best cigarette that can be produced.
Theres nothing else like Camel QUALITY. 
And theres nothing else like Camels wonder
ful smoothness, fine tobacco flavor and freedom 
from cigaretty aftertaste.
Thats why Camel popularity is growing 
faster than ever.
A better cigarette cannot be made.
We put the UTMOST QUALITY into 
THIS ONE BRAND.
Exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh.
De[UXC,
Student Note Books
give you bettef value 
for your money.
they work better and 
wear longer.
aU sizes and rulings. 
ask to see them.
W.WA
WRIGHTS
NewestCreation
Peppermint fla^ 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
mehs in your 
mouth, leaving > 
the deliciously f 
flavored gum ff 
center to aid 8
digestion, I 
brighten teeth \ 
and soothe ' 
mouth and throat
TURKISH &' DOMESTIC] BLEKD i
tiHbVOR. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
