'Tech Plans Fall Orientation
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Volume 52  Number 26. WEDNESDAY. MAY 20, 1959
Tech Participates In 
New Education Plan
A giant step forward in designingan educational pro
gram for gifted high school students has been announced by 
the Pittsburgh Board of Public Education and Carnegie Tech. 
The program is the first of its kind in the country to bring
Commencement 
Exercises
Four thousand seats will be 
available for this years Com
mencement to be held on the 
Mall, June 9. Graduates are 
urged to use all invitations 
given them and personally 
invite additional relatives 
and friends. Tickets will be 
required for Syria Mosque, in 
case of inclement weather.
into direct partnership the teach-? 
<rs of secondary schools in a ma' i 
jor city and those in a private 1 
collegiate institution.
$75,000 Grant 
This cooperative venture has 
been made possible by a grant | 
of $75,000 from the Fund f6r the * 
Advancement of Education, and 
$12,500 from the A. W. Mellon 
Educational and Charitable Trust. j 
The pilot program provides for 
an exchange of teachers between 
^elected public high schools in 
Pittsburgh and CIT. During the 
academic year 1959-60, one high j 
school teacher of English and an
other of history will instruct at i 
Carnegie Tech. At the same time, | 
two Carnegie instructors will I 
teach in the high schools. By this . 
means the two cooperating parties ' 
expect to develop new teaching 1 
techniques for adoption in ad| 
vanced placement programs, en
abling above average high school 
students to earn college credit.
Summer Institute 
The grants from the two foun
dations also will support a sum
mer institute at Carnegie Tech at 
which 32 high school teachers 
will join with instructors of the 
university to study and refine the 
advanced placement courses to be 
offered in the high schools in the 
fall.
 Planned Expansion
While it is planned to expand 
the advanced placement program 
eventually to many city schools 
and in many fields, the first 
courses to be presented in the fall 
semester are in European History 
and English. Four public high 
schools, Allderdice, Peabody, Per
ry and South Hills, will offer the 
special courses in English, and all 
but Perry, the advanced courses 
^n History. Advanced placement 
courses in mathematics and phys
ics will also be taught in selected 
schools, but they are not related 
to this specific project.
The city schools stake in this 
pioneering venture is stated by 
Dr. Calvin E. Gross, Superintend
ent of Pittsburgh Public Schools: 
Our new coperative program 
with Carnegie Tech will have 
great influence on the course of 
A secondary education in Pitts
burgh. The liaison will open up 
many new avenues of commu
nication between college teach
ers and secondary school teach[continued on page 6]
Draft
If you are planning to con
tinue your education during 
the academic year, 1959-1960, 
whether here at C. I. T. or 
some other institution and you 
are under the jurisdiction of 
Selective Service Regulations, 
you should consult and care
fully read the informative 
notice which is posted on 
campus and dormitory bulle
tin boards. As the registrant 
of a local board, it is your 
obligation to attend to this 
very important item of per
sonal business at once.
4A Hatful Of Rain 
Presented By CITs 
Drama Students
Theatre Unlimited, a group of 
Carnegie Tech drama students in
terested in presenting a drama 
workshop outside of the realm of 
the college, will present the pow
erful Michael V. Gazzo drama, A 
Hatful of Rain, at the Y.M. & 
W.H.A. on Saturday and Sunday 
evenings, May 23 and 24, at 8:30.
This production of A Hatful 
of Rain is the result of an over
whelming acceptance of the show
Next September freshmen will have the same excellent opportunity they have had in the past to 
meet their fellow classmates at Freshman Camp.
Meeting Today
There is a Student Congress 
meeting today at 4:30 in 
Porter Hall 100. This will be 
the last Congress meeting of 
the year.
Freshman Camp Counselors 
Are Preparing For Next Fall
The counselors and staff of the 1959 Freshman Camp are 
presently making plans for an enjoyable and educational 
three days for the incoming freshmen.
The camp will be held on September 8, 9 and 10 at Camp 
-----------------------------------------------------?Lutherlyn in Butler County, and
Lloyd Battista, Tech drama stu
dent will be seen in a featured 
role in the upcoming Theatre Un
limited production of A Hatful 
of Rain.
when it was produced in the Tech 
Studio Theater. At that time, 
every detail of the production fit 
together perfectly resulting in a 
rare but happy moment of the 
theater. Director Rick Risso has 
assembled the same cast for the 
forthcoming production.
The Story 
A Hatful of Rain is the story 
of a decent young man who is 
nevertheless a dope addict. Mich
ael V. Gazzos terse drama tells 
some horrifying truths candidly.
[continued on page 2]
Complaints Discussed 
Concern ingMo re wood
By Carolyn Saxton 
Dr. Brown, Dean of Student Welfare, and Mr. Patton, 
Comptroller, were present at a Tuesday, May 5, meeting of 
Morewood Gardens residents to discuss complaints concern
ing next years room and board rates.
The razing of Skibo to build 
Hunt Library before the new stu
dent union is completed will nec
essitate the addition of new facili
ties to the cafeteria in Morewood 
Gardens to accommodate those 
who would normally have eaten 
in Skibo. Under these conditions,
Morewood residents will not pay 
their board in one lump sum, but 
will buy each meal individually.
Meal Rates 
Therefore, there have been 
many complaints about paying 
more for meals. There have also 
been others to the effect that room 
rates are so high compared to 
those in Donner Hall.
Regarding the eating facilities 
and higher food prices, Mr. Patton 
said that the administration is not 
happy about it either, but they 
were forced into it by the library 
situation.
He went on to add, We may have 
had to charge more for food next 
year anyway because the food 
service in Morewood Gardens is 
now operating in the red.
Meal Tickets 
Although he could make no de
finite commitments, Dr. Brown 
suggested that there may be a
Long Term Loans
Long term loan applica
tions for next year, should be 
submitted to the Financial 
Aid office by the end of May. 
Forms may be obtained in 
AH 154.
possibility of issuing meal tickets 
to Morewood residents at approxi
mately the same price as is now 
being charged to eliminate the 
higher priced individual meals.
On the question of room rates, 
Dr. Brown stated, Morewood 
Gardens was not originally in
tended to be a dormitory, there
fore it has no specific dormitory 
design, and the overhead is great
er than it might otherwise be. 
Donner Hall has been designed as 
a dormitory and thus has a lower 
maintenance.
When asked if the money paid 
for room and board in the dorms 
was ever used for any other pur
pose, Mr. Patton said that, at no 
[continued on page 6]
! it is expected that about three 
j hundred freshmen will attend. As 
in past years, the bulk of the pro
gram will consist of recreational 
and social activities during which 
i the freshmen will be able to meet 
each other as well as the coun
selors and faculty members who 
will be present.
But there will be a more serious 
side to the program. Skits and dis
cussions have been planned which 
will help the freshmen to become 
acquainted with Tech and to un
derstand the advantages of a col
lege education in its many and 
varied aspects. It is hoped that 
the freshmen who attend the camp 
will gain some insight into their 
own goals in coming to college.
Speaker
The keynote speaker this year 
will be Dr. Simon of tha School 
of Industrial Administration. 
Other faculty members who have 
j been active in helping plan the 
camp are Dr. Strick, Co-ordinator 
of Student Activities; Dr. Mor
gan, Head of the Bureau of Mea* 
surement and Guidance; Miss 
Shinn, Co-ordinator of Religious 
[continued on page 61
Graduation Fee
All candidates for bachelor, 
masters, and doctorate de
grees are required to pay a 
$10.00 graduation fee. The fee 
should be paid in the Office 
of the Registrar by Friday, 
May 22.
J

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*e *CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 20, 1959
CoJ Of OL Wed
Patti Plate
Freshman Textile Major
Yens
1
Entry Blank11
Coed of the Week Contest11
Name ...1
I
Address........................................................................................................................ II
Phone ........................................................................................................................... II
Submitted by .................................................................................................. iI
Subscription Blank For Tartan j
Graduating seniors and interested undergraduates may purchase a subscription I 
to next years Tartan by returning the subscription blank below with payment to CarS 
negie Tartan, Campus Mail. I
Enclosed is $2.00 for a one year subscription ( ). ,l
I
Name: .................................................................................................................................................... I
Address to Which ................................................................................................................................ J
Paper Will Be Sent:
C^ofiegiate
C^ufturaf
ci fendicir
By Barb Jones
Until June 14, the Carnegie In
stitute is presenting paintings by 
David G. Blythe.
At the Arts and Crafts Center, 
from May 16 until June 7, the TriState Society of Sculptors is pre
senting their work.
Chatham College is presenting 
Retrospective of Seven Senior 
Art Students Over Four Years 
under the direction of Charles LeClair and David Smith until 
June 5.
Fraternities Announce 
Spring Sweethearts
By Georgia White and Sally Ganong 
Spring is the time for flowers, birds, and the announce
ment of fraternity sweethearts.
Alpha Tau Omegas choice was Joanne Cronin, a brown
haired lass from Boston, Massachusetts who is a junior ma
joring in clothing, textiles .and*--------------------------------------------------------
home economics. paddie rjke wi ..always re_
Joannes activities include beJ member and be proud of the 
ing a member of the home econoj honor given her when she was 
mics club, serving as Kappa Alchosen Sigma Nu Sweetheart at 
pha Thetas social chairman, and : the White Rose Formal held at 
being elected to last years Milij the Penn Sheraton April 18. Padtary Ball Court. die, a junior home economics maI am ecstatic, said Joanne, jor, is pinned to Ross Engleman,
"beyond words to be ATOs sweet
heart. Her plans for the future 
include marriage and possibly a
career in retailing and merchanmember of Delta Gamma sorority,
a senior in mechanical engineer
ing.
This year, Paddie, who is a
dising. Bob Hammer is Joannes 
pin-mate.
Phi Kappa
Alice Peck, a slim painting and 
design sophomore from Arlington, 
Virginia won the hearts of Phi 
Kappa Theta. Her honors include 
being a member of Cwens and 
dorm council.
served as president of the YWCA 
and treasurer of Phi Tau Gamma. 
She is now a member of Mortar 
Board and is president of the
Home Ec Club. After graduation, 
Paddie plans to begin teaching. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Last December, Fran Teviotdale, a blond-haired bio-science 
I am, of course, grateful to major from Pasedena, California, 
Phi Kappa for naming me their was chosen Sweetheart of Sigma 
sweetheart, Alice said, and feel Alpha Epsilon. Fran is vice presia sense of obligation to the fraterdent Qf both Dorm Council and 
nity. Alice is pinned to Paul Delta Delta Delta Sorority. She is 
Farrell. ! also an active member of Tarquans
Barbie Goetz, a sophomore ; and is a WAA board member, 
home economics major, was chosFran loves California and wants 
en president of the Gallaghers at to be outdoors as much as posthe annual Kappa Sigma Sweetsible after graduation, 
heart Formal on April 3. Barbie ! The Pi Kappa Alpha Sweetis pinned to Bob Larry, a junior heart Song was *sung to Bev
in chemical engineering, and they ; Scott at the Mountain View Hotel 
are both from Mount Lebanon, on April 18. Bev is pinned to Bob 
Pa. A member of Kappa Kappa Harrington, a senior printing manGamma sorority and Tarquans, j agement major from Wisconsin, 
Barbies only future plans are to and they plan to be married this 
finish school. Being Kappa Sig June. Bev, a senior home econoSweetheart makes Barbie feel as j mics major, is a member of Chi 
though she has a lot more brothj Omega sorority and the Home Ec
Club.
CFP Governs Tech 
Fraternities And 
Plans Rushing
CFP, the Council of Fraternity 
Presidents, is composed of each 
fraternity president and one other 
representative from each house. 
The organization is the governing 
body of the fraternities.
In February, CFP and Panhellenic Council sponsor Greek 
Sing. Because of the shortage of 
tickets this year, CFP is looking 
! for a larger place than Carnegie 
Music Hall to hold next years 
performances. The largest pro! blem now facing the new officers,
. led by Ray Nix, is devising a plan 
j for delayed pledging in 1960. 
; Right now, the fraternities have 
three alternatives; pledging after 
mid-semester, pledging between 
semesters, or pledging at the be
ginning of second semester.
Other Jobs
Besides deciding when to have 
pledging, all rush rules pertaini ing to delayed pledging must be 
. decided and voted upon. For the 
past two years, CFP has been 
working with INSTEP to provide 
entertainment for the Indian stu
dents during weekends such as 
Homecoming, Spring Carnival, and 
Greek Sing. Realizing the import
ance of inter-fratemity and eampus-fratemity relations, CFP is 
now striving to bring a greater 
understanding of the fraternity 
system to the administration and 
the campus.
Hatful[continued from page J]
Set on New Yorks lower East 
Side, A Hatful of Rain tells the 
story of a dope addict from the 
points of view of both his family 
and himself. A Hatful of Rain 
is a good case history told in 
human terms.
Players
The Theatre Unlimited produc
tion of A Hatful of Rain has 
Don Beck as John Pope, Sr., Jack 
Brown as his hooked son, Johnny, 
Francesca Reed as Johnnys wor
ried wife, and Lloyd Battista as 
the loyal brother, Polo. Nicholas 
Worth plays Mother, the head of 
the dope pushers, and Ron DeCola 
and Jules Fisher play Chuck and 
Apples, his henchmen.
Tickets for A Hatful of Rain 
are 99c and may be obtained at 
the door.
On CooptswithMaxShulman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.)
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
This is the last column of my fifth year of writing for Philip 
Morris and Marlboro. I have made it a custom in the last 
column of each year not to be funny. I know I have also 
realized this aim in many other columns during the year, but 
that was not for lack of trying. Today I am not trying. I am not 
trying for two reasons: First, because you are getting ready for 
final exams and in your present state of shock, nothing in the 
world could possibly make you laugh. And second, this final 
column of the year is for many of us a leave-taking, and good
byes always make me too misty to be funny.
For me the year ends neither with a bang nor a whimper, but 
with a glowa warm, pleasant, mellow glowthe kind of glow 
you will find, for example, at the end of a Philip Morris or 
Marlboro.
It has been in every way a gratifying experience, my five 
years with the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, and I 
would like to take this opportunity to extend my heartfelt 
appreciation to these good tobacconists, to assure them that 
the memory of their kindness will remain ever green in my 
heart, and to remind them that they still owe me for the last 
three columns.
And in these waning days of the school year, let me address 
myself seriously to you, my readers. Have I trod on any toes 
this year? Ruffled any feelings? Jostled any sensibilities? If 
so, I am sorry.
Have I occasioned any laughs? Chuckles? Sniggers? Mona 
Lisa smiles? If so, Im glad.
Have I persuaded any of you to try Philip Morris and 
Marlboro? To taste that fine flavor? To smoke that excellent 
tobacco? If so, you are glad.
And now the long, lazy summer lies ahead. But for me sum
mer is never lazy. It is, in fact, the busiest time of year. Two 
summers ago, for instance, I was out ringing doorbells every 
single day, morning, noon, and night. There was a contest, 
you see, and the kid in my neighborhood who sold the most 
bluing won a pony. I am proud to report that I was the lucky 
winner.
Last summer I was also out ringing doorbells every single 
day, morning, noon, and night. I was trying to sell the pony.
This summer I am not going to be out ringing doorbells. 
I am going to saddle the pony and ride to Hollywood, California. 
What am I going to do in Hollywood, California? I am going to 
write a series of half-hour television comedies called THE 
MANY LOVES OF DOBIE GILLIS, and starting in October, 
1959, your friends and mine, the makers of Philip Morris and 
Marlboro, are going to bring you this program over the Colum
bia Broadcasting System every Tuesday night at 8:30. Why 
dont you speak to your housemother and ask her if shell let 
you stay up to see it?
And now good-bye. For me its been kicks all the way, and I 
hope for you it hasnt been altogether unbearable. Have a good 
summer. Stay well. Stay cool. Stay loose.
 I960, Mu Shulma
* * *
For us, the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro, it' 
been kicks too, and we would like to echo kindly old Max' 
parting words: Stay well. Stay cool. Stay loose.

0
ki
i>

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. May 2. 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage *
HARRY LAWTON, JR., received his B.S. in 
Physics at Union College, Schenectady, 
N. Y., in 1950, joining General Electric 
that same year. He received an M.S. 
degree in Management Engineering from 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1958.
ti., ROTCGuidon
Readers Write
Guidon
Rifle Team Receives 
Third Place Award
The first award made was the Hearst Plaque, awarded 
to the third place team in the Second Army Hearst Rifle 
Matchs for 1959. The citation was given by Mr. Harry Keck,
f the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, a member of the Hearst 
tewspaper chain. Cadet Victor* ----------------------------------------------------
Polansky received the plaque for 
the team.
The next awards made were the 
Hearst Medals, awarded to the in
dividual members of the team 
which participated in the Second 
Army Hearts Rifle Match for 1959. 
These medals were presented by 
Dr. B. Richard Teare, Jr., Dean
f the College of Engineering and 
Cience. Members of the team 
were Cadet Victor Polansky, Ca
det Jenkins, Cadet Larry Burtner, Cadet Thomas Cameti, and 
Cadet Charles Gards.
Winning Team 
Following these award, the 
Western Pennsylvania Athletic 
Conference Trophy was awarded 
to the winning team of Confer
ence matches. The Trophy was
resented by Dr. George Brown, 
'ean of Student Personnel and 
Welfare at Carnegie. Cadet Victor 
Polansky received the Trophy for 
the team. The team consisted of 
the following: Cadets Polansky
and Jenkins, seniors; Cadet Burtner, junior; Mr. William Harris, 
senior; Mr. Robert White, junior; 
Mr. Leo Freudenreich and Mr. 
Arnold Thumborg, sophomores; 
Mr. Leon Andors, Mr. Barry 
Glunts, and Mr. William Houck, 
C^eshmen.
The National Rifle Association 
individual trophies were awarded 
to the members of the winning 
team in the Greater Pittsburgh 
Intercollegiate Rifle League. These 
trophies were presented by Dr. 
George K. Brown, Dean of Stu
dent Personnel and Welfare. 
Members of the team receiving 
awards were Cadet Victor Polansjcy, Cadet John Jenkins, Mr. Wilmim Houck, Mr. Leo Freudenreich, Mr. Arnold Thunborg.
Second Place 
The Greater Pittsburgh Inter
collegiate Rifle League Individual 
Trophy for second place, based on 
overall average attained in league 
competition, was presented by 
Colonel William E. Feeman, Pro
fessor of Military Science and 
Tactics at Carnegie to Cadet Vic
tor Polansky.
* The Greater Pittsburgh Inter
collegiate Rifle League Individual 
Trophy for fourth and fifth place 
based on overall average attained 
in League competition, were pre
sented by Colonel William E. Fee
man to Mr. William Houck and 
Cadet John Jenkins respectively.
A white Scabbard and Blade 
Streamer was awarded to D Com
pany for selection as best-drilled 
company of the period of May.
The award was presented by 
Cadet Fred E. Ford, President of 
Scabbard and Blade, to Cadet 
Richard J. Ravas, Executive Offi
cer, D Company.
A red ScatToard and Blade 
Streamer was awarded to A Com
pany for selection as second bestdrilled company of the period of 
May. The award was presented 
by Cadet Fred E. Ford, President 
of Scabbard and Blade, to Cadet 
Christopher Bearden, Company 
Commander, A Company.
The ROTC Guidon section of 
the Tartan is an excellent means 
for communicating ideas and ex
periences among the members of 
the cadet corps. Participation of 
this kind is a worthwhile activity 
for those intending to become of
ficers of the U.S. Army.
For those cadets who anticipate 
being commissioned in branches j 
other than Corps of Engineers or 
Signal Corps, an opportunity ex
ists (under the provisions of AR 
614-100) to be first-hand witness 
to these changes. Army regulaj 
tions provide that an officer com1 
missioned in technical and admin
istrative branches of the regular 
army serves two years in a combat 
army before entering his basic 
branch. These provisions ensure 
that each officer has the opportu
nity to become personally involv
ed with the operations of the kind 
of units he will be supporting.
Upon accepting my regular 
army commission in the Adjutant 
Generals Corps, I was detailed to 
the artillery for two years. Having 
my choice of any artillery unit in 
the world, I chose the 18th Air 
Defense Group, Pittsburgh. The 
basic course of instruction for
such assignments is the 17-week 
surface-to-air missile officers j 
course at the U.S. Army air de
fense school, Fort Bliss (El Paso), 
Texas. During the entire period, 
the class is impressed with the 
importance of the air defense misj 
sion. There is much to learn; no I 
time for harassment. Academic 
achievement is weighted heavily; | 
failure of even one exam brings : 
the student before a board of offij 
cers. But the student, too, is an 1 
officer, and he is treated as such 
from the first day he arrives on 
the post.
Of the 17 weeks, ten are spent 
actually studying and working 
with the surface-to-air missile, 
Nike (pronounced NY-KEE). At j 
the completion of the course, stu
dents participate in simulated 
missions and actual firing of the 
Nike missile. One returns from 
the SAM course with a deeper 
appreciation for the imagination 
and talents upon which this new 
army is placing its increased em
phasis.
No, all is not lost for the cadet 
who will be commissioned in other 
than his ROTC branch. There is 
in fact a wide variety of interests 
in the several branches, both tech
nical and administrative. For the 
taking, the opportunity is there 
right there in AR 614-100.
Edward R. Raupp 
2nd Lt. Artillery 
Launcher Platoon Leader
Editors Note:
Many of you expressed, in. the 
questionnaire a few months ajo, 
the desire to find out what hap
pens to you after graduation. It it 
true that the facts will be 
what different in each individual 
case, but in order to let you ffct 
some sort of idea the Guidon pub
lishes this letter, in portion, f*xrm 
Ed Raupp who graduated f+om 
the School of Printing Manage 
ment last year at this time.
c.r.Y.
Final Weeks of 
Slimmer Camp
By J. fsenberg
The final three weeks of sum
mer camp are probably the most 
interesting to many cadets, lialike the first part of camp which 
consists largely of formal training, 
the final three weeks are more of 
a practical exercise nature.
The fourth week consists of a 
daily bivouac where we went uut 
into the middle of nowhere in 
Fort Gordon and set up a division 
communication network complete 
in every detail, including com* 
centers, telephone lines, radio 
nets, etc. Then, when the day was 
nearing an end, we packed every 
thing and returned to our b;r[continued on page 51
Pershing Rifles 
Elected Its New 
Officers For 1959
On May 5, 1959, Pershing Rifles 
Company held its annual elections.
The new officers of the organizaon are: Richard Cuppett, Cap
lin; Kenneth Bloom, 1st Lieu
tenant, Executive Officer; Dick 
Waina, 1st Lieutenant, Operations 
Officer; James Salton, 2nd Lieu
tenant, Administration Officer; 
Thomas Gillespie, 2nd Lieutenant, 
Public Information Officer; Mike 
Zerner, 2nd Lieutenant, Supply 
Officer; John Wilson, Master Ser
geant, 1st Sergeant.
Long-range programs are important 
for both men and missiles
In a company dedicated to research and development, 
a young mans opportunities to learn more to increase 
his technical skillsare almost unlimited, says 31-yearold Harry Lawton, Jr., a General Electric engineer 
engaged in the development of inertial guidance and 
fire-control systems for ballistic missiles. And to main
tain Americas scientific leadership, were going to need 
all the technical training and skills we can produce.
An important aspect "f my job at General Electric 
is the continuing opportunity to learn more. Ive been 
able to continue my education in the companys Physics 
Program for college graduates. And I also have the 
advantage of association with top technical experts in 
my work. Opportunities like this have helped me real
ize that long-range programs are importantfor both 
men and missiles.
Harry Lawton is one of several hundred technical 
graduates who are devoting their skills to the develop
ment of 14 government missile projects to which General 
Electric is a major contributor. More and more our 
scientific progress and our national security depend on 
men like this  men who bring high qualifications to 
their work and who continue their quest for knowledge, 
both on and off the job.
General Electric believes that individual initiative 
and career growth are essential to Americas continued 
technological leadership. To this end, the company en
courages all of its employees  including more than 
30,000 college graduates  to develop to their fullest 
capabilities by providing opportunities for increasing 
knowledge and working skills.
ftogress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

Pa 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday. May M, 1959
EditorialUTTIE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
American. Education
One sometimes wonders if the recent 
success of Russian science indicates a deep 
seated failing of the American educational 
system and beyond that of a mere shortage 
of teachers and equipment.
The emphasis of American education and 
American society upon the average individ
ual w?ho possesses average abilities and who 
reaches average attainments, is possibly pro
ducing a nation of complacency and medi
ocrity. The individual who possesses native 
genius and the drive to use it is looked upon 
as different, peculiar and one sided. Instead 
of being encouraged to throw aside the con
cerns and trivial interests of the common 
people, he is forced to adopt the value and 
judgements of the nameless majority.
Intellectual Sphere
Democracy in the political and national 
spheres is one thing, but the application of it 
in the sphere of intellectual activity is some
thing else again. This application may be the fallacy of the 
present American educational system.
One sees with glaring clarity the results of the suppres
sion of individual genius by standards of mediocrity in our 
grade and high schools. Children blessed with outstanding 
intellectual capacity are forced to sit side by side with aver
age children. New material is presented to them, not at the 
rate which would challenge their ability, but instead at the 
same droning rate at which it is handed to the common stu
dents. Such a situation squelches genius by requiring the 
gifted individual to stay with the rest and to act like the 
average person.
Nothing Is Offered
Thousands of dollars are spent for special guidance and 
schools for individuals of subnormal intelligence (which is 
without a doubt a necessary and worthwhile expense), but 
comparably nothing is spent upon students of superior ability.
Can we look forward to the future with confidence if we 
continue this practice? All the teamwork and cooperative ef
fort of our nations best average scientists cannot give to the 
world what a single Einstein or Newton can give. We should 
not squelch the individual who differs from the majority, for 
with him and his kind lies the hope of our future.
J.D.S.
WWJ HOW'S TH CHOW TOVM?'
1 ibi
or1Campus Questions
If the administration ever wills Tech 
dry do they plan to buy the Greeks, Harrys, 
Hannas, and the ever popular Pitt Pot to 
prevent off-campus nipping?
Will our engineers ever stop weari^* 
their slide-rules at the hip like academic 
Mavricks?
Does the student body realize what an 
excellent job the architects did on the Scotch 
n Soda lobby?
Just what is Dr. Browns capacity?
|lllllllllllll!lllllllllllllll!lllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||||||||||||||||||^
| Readers Write . . . |
^]|||l!lllllllllllllllllllllilillllllllllllllllllllllllll!illlllllllllllll|||||||||||||||||ll 
Memorial Day
Editor, the Tartan:
Memorial Day is on May 30. It is easy for most of us to ! 
ignore that holiday (except for listening to the race at Indianj 
apolis), but I doubt if many of the older men in the Veterans i
Hospital can so glibly forget the*------------------------------------------------------------i
significance of Memorial Day.
Neither can the vets at C.I.T.
For the great majority of stu
dents who dont remember what 
it was like, I suggest a brief 
visit to the .library in order to 
scan over some of the pictures 
published in the weekly magazines 
during World War II. But World 
War II was more than bloody bat
tles, stiff corpses, and shattered 
families. The magazines will re
veal our America that is hard to 
imagine in 1959. From 1940 to 
1945 the citizens of the United 
States worked together^ as a unit. 
If they had not, we would have 
lost the war.
Throughout our nation today 
there is widespread unres't. We are 
being criticized for deteriorating 
economically, intellectually, and 
spiritually. Our representatives in 
Washington appear to spend-much 
of their time and our money in 
useless bickering and squabbling. 
This is a far cry from the united 
United States curing the last 
woi Id war.
Im not implying that we need 
another war to unify our country. 
Perhaps if more of us followed 
Blenheims example and read 
Saint-Exuperys The Little 
Prince, it would be a small step 
in the right direction. On Memor
ial Day, however, lets remember 
the men killed in combat, our liv
ing veterans, and the last time 
that Americans worked together 
as citizens of a free country.
Sincerely yours, 
Richard Sanders
Free Cigarettes
The author of any Letter to 
the Editor published in the 
Tartan will receive a free 
carton of Marlboro cigarette. 
This servise has been made 
possible through Harry Dep
letes, Tech's Marlboro repre
sentative.
Court Decision 
Approved By 
Faculty Committee
In the letter printed below. Dr. 
G. K. Brown, Director of Student 
Personnel and Welfare and chair
man of Techs faculty Disciplinary 
Committee, officially approved the 
decisions of the Supreme Court of 
Student Congress on those stu
dents caught in the riot at Morewood Gardens last April first.
Dr. Browns letter emphasizes 
that mere presence in such a mob 
contributes to bringing unfavor
able publicity upon the school and 
will be dealt with more seriously 
by the court in the future.
Six students were placed on 
disciplinary probation until mid
semester next fall, one student 
was placed on disciplinary warn
ing, and five students were re
primanded for being part of the 
crowd. Two cases are pending.
The Letter
The Disciplinary Committee 
of Carnegie has received the rec
ommendation of the Supreme 
Court relative to the student in
cident at Morewood Gardens on 
April 1, 1959. The Committee has 
given due consideration to your 
recommendations and wishes to 
inform you of its decision.
The Disciplinary Committee ap
proves the specific penalties rec
ommended for application to those 
students named. In the cases of 
those to be reprimanded it is sug
gested that the Supreme Court of 
Student Congress take immediate 
and sole action. In the cases of 
warning and disciplinary proba
tion penalties the Disciplinary 
Committee wishes to co-sign the 
documents and to inform the par
ents of the actions taken. These 
moves appear necessary pending 
further clarification of the Su
preme Courts procedures for the 
future.
It is the desire of the college to 
prevent uncontrolled crowd be-jhavior such as panty raids. Coni sequently, we concur also with 
l your intent to deal more seriously 
| with similar affairs in the future 
by considering the presence of a 
; student in such a mob as a basis 
of guilt. The actions of your tri
bunal and this committee now 
clearly inform the student body 
that irresponsible behavior of this 
type is not condoned. That furj ther, participants in such affairs 
\ in the future can expect serious 
' confceQ Deuces.
When will the ivy be planted around the marriage dorM 
to cover Techs most outstanding mistake of the year?
How in the name of justice can Techs student congress 
take action on the panty-raiders when the Pittsburgh police 
dismissed them?
Does Tech realize what an outstanding administrator and 
personality we have in our much overworked Dr. Strick?
Will we ever have a tennis team as talented and success
ful as this years?
Is the 1959 graduating class in Industrial Management as 
good as it is rumored to be?
Where are all the wonderful job offers that Tech seniors 
are reputed to have?
Does the administration realize what a terrible botch this 
years intramural program has been?
Is it true that the Tartan is second in the country as to 
the number of typographical errors per word?
Just what portion of the moon has Mrs. Hunt offered 
Tech so as to force the administration to destroy so much of 
the natural beauty that already exists just so her pressed 
flower collection can be displayed in the new foyer befoi* 
the Forsythia blooms next spring?
Where is the Tartan going to get three idiots to make 
asses of themselves by writing this column next year?
Blenheim
CARNE Gl E
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tec. M 
nology, Pittsburgh 13, .Pa.
Editor .................................................................................................................................................Jeremiah D. Sullivan
Associate Editor ....................................... .............................................. Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager ................................................................................... Adlesberg
News Editor ........................................................ ............ ..........Jan Notopoulos
Assistant News Editor .................................................................................. Phil James
Sports Editor ......................................................-............................Chuck Vodvarka
Copy Editor ...................................................... ................... ................. Jack Cashman
Layout Editor ............................................................................................... Jim Whalen
Feature EditorRena Siegel, Photography EditorFred Beste, 
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager
Miles Holander, SecretaryAudrey Dolan, Circulation ManagerJohn
Mowery.
News StaffMike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Bill Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob 
Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira Shapiro, Georgia White, 
Lois Wolfe.
Sports StaffBob Walker, Richard Szuch, Circulation StaffBob 
Miller, TypistPatti Michael.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson, Mary Ann Melton, Janis Geisler.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May *0, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPag* S
Cwens and Scimitars Will Sell Dinks During Freshman Orientation.
Freshman Orientation 
Begins September 8
The 1959 Freshman orientation week will begin on Sep
tember 8, 1959. This is the week before classes begin which 
is provided to help accustom the incoming freshman with 
Carnegie Tech.
 As in the past, Freshman Week will be under the guid
ance of the Freshman Orientation Week Committee of Stu
dent Congress, and the sophomore activities honoraries, 
Cwens and Scimitars. Although Freshman Week will be one 
day shorter than usual this fall, all of the events which have 
taken place in the past are planned for this next years Week, 
taken place in the past are planned for this next years Ori
entation Week.
Schedule of Events
 Tuesday-Thursday, September 8-10
Freshman Camp. The YMCA and YWCA at Tech provide 
three days of orientation and recreation for as many 
freshmen as can be accommodated at Camp Lutherlyn.
Thursday, September 10 
1:30The buses bring the campers back to Tech.
2:00-4:00Deans Reception. An informal reception at 
which the freshmen and their parents may meet and talk 
with the deans of the various departments.
5:00-8:00Womens Dorm Counselor program and dinner. 
The floor counselors meet with the freshman women in 
the lounge on each floor of Morewood to discuss rules, 
regulations and code.
7:00-8:00Fraternity Orientation Program. Council of 
Fraternity Presidents will describe the fraternity sys
tem at Tech to those freshman men interested in rush
ing. The program will be in Fine Arts Theater in the Fine 
Arts building.
8:00-12:00Street Dance, the first social event of freshman week, during which the new students will get to 
meet their classmates. A band will provide the music for 
the dance in the street in front of Engineering Hall.
Friday, September 11th 
8:30-12:30Orientation Tests for Engineering & Science 
students (A-G Porter Hall 100; H-Q Room 2315, E.H.; R-Z, 
Room 2210, E.H.). A series of tests given by the Bureau of 
Measurements and Guidance to the new students. 
1:30-5:00Campus Orientation Program. This event will 
^ consist of an assembly in Porter Hall 100 at which the 
freshman will meet various members of the administra
tion and campus leaders. The assembly will be followed 
with a tour of the campus to acquaint the freshman with 
the various buildings on campus. Better wear walking 
shoes!
7:30-9:00Men and Women Dorm Students Meeting. 
Two meetings: one in Donner Hall for men and one in 
Morewood for women, will be held to acquaint the dorm
# residents with the regulations governing Tech dorms. 
9:00-12:00Dorm Council Party. All new students are in
vited to a party in Donner Hall given by the Dorm Coun
cils. There will be dancing and refreshments.
Saturday, September 12th .
8:30-12:00Orientation tests (MMCC Students in Porter 
Hall 100; Fine Arts, A-K in Room 2315 E.H., L-Z in Room 
2210 E.H.).
3:30-6:30Sports Day. An afternoon of fun in Schenley 
Park. Almost every sport will be available and a picnic 
supper will be served to those who wear their dinks. 
Sunday, September 13th
10:20 a.m.Church guides to the nearest church of your 
denomination will be in front of Morewood Gardens. 
4:00-6:00YWCA Big and Little Sister Tea. Tech fresh
man women will have an opportunity to meet with their 
big sisters at this tea to be held at the Union.
7:30Church Night. A short assembly in Fine Arts the
ater to describe Techs religious organizations will be fol
lowed with an evening of fellowship and fun with the 
campus religious organization of your choice.
Monday, September 14th 
8:30-12:00 and 1:00-4:00Registration. The line begins at 
the upper end of the Gym building. Better wear walking 
shoes for this too.
1:30-2:30E&S students discussion groups. Upperclass 
students and a faculty member will be on hand to answer 
any questions you have about academic life at Tech. 
4:30-7:30Party and supper for commuting students. 
Citcom Clan plans a party and barbecue at the Union for 
all new commuting students, freshmen or upperclass. 
8:00-12:00Presidents Reception. Dr. Warner will for
mally receive each of the freshmen in the Fine Arts 
lobby. Then there will be a dance in Exhibition Hall of 
Fine Arts building. Scotch n Soda will present a few 
scenes from this years production for the freshmen in 
Fine Arts theater.
Tuesday, September 15 
8:30-12:00 and 1:00-4:00Registration. Gym building. 
11:30-12:30Official Convocation, Group II in Fine Arts 
Theater. A procession of the department heads will be 
followed by a talk by one of the administration.
Wednesday, September 16 
8:30 a.m.Classes begin.
Thursday, September 17 
11:30Official convocation for Group III, Fine Arts 
Theater.
Saturday, September 19
1:30-4:30Activities Fair. The extra-curricular activities 
will be represented at tables in the main gym to describe 
the organization to the freshmen and encourage freshmen 
to sign up for their activity.
Tuesday, September 23 
11:30Official convocation for Group I, Fine Arts 
Theater.
Later in September, the Frosh-Soph hop for all fresh
men and sophomores will be held. There will be a band 
for dancing. Heres another good chance to meet your 
classmates and those in the class immediately ahead. The 
exact date is still to be decided and will be announced in 
September.
Also, the freshmen can look forward to the Traditions 
Test. This is a test of how well the freshmen have learned 
some of the facts and traditions of Tech. The test will be 
held at 11:30 a.m. on a Tuesday, the exact date yet to be 
decided.
Summer
COLLEGE WOMEN
STUDENTS AND GRADUATES
Duff's 8-Week Shorthand Course
With the Famous, Easy-to-Learn
for Lecture Notesfor Better Jobs
CLASSES BEGIN 
Day School: June 8, July 6, Aug. 3 
Evening School:
June 2, June 23, July 14, Aug. 4
For further information telephone Mrs. Alice Cecere, 
ATIantic 1-5386 or send coupon
DUFF'S
BUSINESS INSTITUTE
Clark Building, 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
Air-Conditioned Classroomt
WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION FOLDER -
Including Sample Shorthand Lesson 
:  NAME .............................................................................
* ADDRESS ...................................................................... IMull to HUFF S B KINESS INSTlTrT*
| flrk Building. ;7 l ibrrtr Are.. PitUbar ,h St V. T Vollllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllu
[continued from page 3] 
| racks area for chow and the nightj ly clean-up sessions.
Fifth Week
The fifth week was much the 
I same thing, except that we spent 
I the entire week in the field withi out returning to the barracks un-*
1 til the end of the week. Sleeping 
in tents, eating meals, and washj ing and shaving were all done in 
I the field that week.
Everyday during these two 
weeks each cadet was given a new 
job to do, i.e. one day he would 
be a radio operator, the next a 
I telephone switchboard operator,
I the next a commander etc. During 
| the fifth week we got practice at 
I making some moves, one of which 
i was a night move with the cadets 
; doing the actual planning for the 
moves, including such details as 
! posting guards against aggressor 
forces, selecting new radio term
inal positions, and keeping the 
equipment continuously manned 
| by cadet operators. The engineers 
; at Fort Belvoir did a similar type 
; of work except that they did en
gineering duties such as building 
the famous baily bridge and roads 
instead of setting up communica
tions.
Deprocessing
The last week was filled mostly 
with deprocessing and demonstra
tions with not quite as much work 
on our part. We had very good 
demonstrations on fire power, 
light aircraft, including helicopt
ers; and an airborne-parachute 
demonstration. In addition, this 
week we fired the carbine rifie 
and had a confidence course with 
some real obstacles to help us 
better realize our own capabili
ties.
Then we had our final weekly 
parade on our last day, after 
which we watched the commis
sioning of the few cadets that had 
already graduated from college. 
After a few salutes were given to 
the new officers and a few hand! shakes, the camp was rapidly de| serted by cadets until next year.
The N5D5z View
Millions of times a year 
drivers and students keep 
awake with safe NoDoz
Let NoDoz alert you 
through college, too
NoDoz keeps you alert with caf
feine the same pleasant stim
ulant you enjoy in coffee. Faster, handier, more reliable: non* 
habit-forming NoDoz delivers an 
accurate amount of dependable 
stimulation to keep your mind 
and body alert during study and 
exams until you can rest or sleep.
P. S.: When you need NoDozt 
it'll probably be late. Play safe. 
Keep a supply handy.
The safe stay awake tabi 
available everywhere

---------------------------------------------------

Page 5CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May , 1959
Scotch Soda 
Offering Prize 
For Show Writer
It was announced this week by 
the executive board of. Scotch n 
Soda that they will give an award 
of $100 to the person who writes 
next years show.
Scotch n Soda has adopted this 
policy because there have been 
many people who have shown an 
interest in writing the musical for 
next year, and the club hopes to 
keep this interest alive. Students 
interested in writing the show for 
next year should have the bulk of 
the work done in the summer 
months, so that they will have a 
complete script ready by the time 
school starts in September.
Standards
The standards for writing the 
show are quite simple. The show 
can be either a book show or a 
revue. (Even revuesicals are 
acceptible.) The dialogue should 
be completed by the end of Sep
tember. The music is not consid
ered a part of the award, as it 
will be written later in the year 
with the help of other Scotch n 
Soda club members.
Anyone interested should drop 
a short note to Scotch n Soda 
(Box 258) to receive further in
structions.
Camp
[continued from page 1] 
Affairs; and Mr. Swank, Dean of 
Men. The student staff consists of 
Jan Chaiken, Head; Pat Crecine, 
Program Director; Myron Salamon, Educational Programming; 
Jackie Thurston, Social Program
ming; and Mary Gail Beckwith 
and Beverly Patton.
Counselors
The counselors for the boys will 
be: Bob Anselmi, Brooks Brenneis, Larry Campbell, Joel Edelman, Paul Farrell, Ray Fessler, 
Dick Finn, Nick Fiore, Vic Hill, 
Phil James, Andy Komer, John 
Lepperd, David Mears, John Oehler, Alan Rice, Larry Reehling, 
Roger Reinke, Bill Soffa, Jerry 
Sullivan, Gary Tumquist, Tom 
Vandersalm, and Dale Weigel.
The counselors for the girls will 
be: Sonya Blank, Marcia Bridge, 
Maxine Brown, Ferris Buck, 
Nancy Dereich, Paddie Fike, Sally 
Ganong, Arlene Logioco, Eleanor 
Micenko, Leila Moore, Terrie 
Rudy, and Kathie Sproat.
Teachers
[continued from page 1] 
ers. Even more important, stu
dents of high intellectual abil
ity will now be permitted to 
move along more rapidly in 
their studies. The sights of our 
whole educational program will 
be raised.
Dr. Warner 
Dr. John C. Warner, President j 
of Carnegie Institute of Technoloj 
gy. commenting on the universitys 
interest in the program, said: 
Carnegie Tech has several 
reasons for undertaking this 
joint program with the Pitts
burgh Board of Education. As 
a responsible member of the 
local and national educational 
communities, it shares a deep j 
concern in solving a vital na
tional problem, the outcome of 
which will determine the future J 
course of this country: the edu
cation of Americas outstanding 
yoi|ng men and women. The 
need and challenge are clear. 
If they are not met, the United 
States may well become vulner
able to the forces of totalitar
ianism.
Morewood
[continued from page 11 
time has any of this money been 
used for other expenses. He add
ed that the dorms are run entirely 
on a no profit, no loss basis.
Private Apartments
Dr. Brown definitely discour
aged the idea of allowing under
graduate girls to live in private 
apartments because of increased 
dormitory expenses by the state
ment, 'Requiring undergraduate 
girls to live in dormitories, if not 
living at home, is a standard pol
icy' among undergraduate colleges. 
Im sure the executive board 
would think I was being very 
facetious if I ever proposed such 
an idea.
Mr. Patton replied to the gen
eral complaint of high prices We 
are still slightly below the av
erage of comparable institutions 
in room and board rates. Carnegie 
is behind in the parade of those 
colleges who are raising room and 
board.
Dr. Brown brought the meeting 
to a close by suggesting that the 
residents of Morewood form a 
committee for suggestions and that 
the Auxiliary Services Commit
tee, which sets the prices, have 
another meeting to discuss the 
problems raised by the situation.
UNDERSTANDING 
THE BIBLE
For free booklet to help you, write:
Christadelpliia Bible Society 
3220 Nottingham Drive 
Pittsburgh 35, Pa.
Prom-perfect... 
or for 
any date
Its easy to see why Arrow White 
Shirts are the most popular on 
campus. Authentic in every style 
detail, theyre the best-fitting 
shirts in circulation today.
Our exclusive Mitoga-tailoring 
makes them that way from collar 
to cuff to waist. Sanforized fab
rics keep their fit and the wildest 
bop wont pop their anchored but
tons. $4.00 up.
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
~ARROH^
first in fashion
it
DON'T LET WINTER
CLOTHES COMPLICATE 
YOUR HOMEGOING
Leave Your Garments With Us!
Our STORAGE BOX Holds up to 25 Garments!
Why let yourself get bogged down with packing your 
winter clothes . . . lugging them home . . . trying to 
find closet space . . . worrying about moth damage? 
And then there's the chore of getting your clothes back 
to school in the fall!
We solve your entire problem with our bargain BOX
STORAGENothing To Pay Till Fall!
AII you do is fill the jumbo box we provide . . . with 
your woolen skirts, slacks, jackets, shirts, sweaters and 
the like. We take it from theredry cleaning, storing, 
insuring the contents, and pressing every item right 
before delivery to you in the Fall!
'S
AUfor *2.95 plus the standard dry cleaning charge which you'd pay anyway!
*100.00 Insurance FREE
Additional Insurance at 2% of Your Valuation
CAMPUS Cleaners
4609 Forbes StreetMUseum 1-1288
IDEAL CLEANERS, 609 N. Neville Street 
Is a Branch of CAMPUS CLEANERS
TALK TO-US ABOUT USING OUR BtfX STORAGE, RIGHT AWAY!

---------------------------------------------------

Intramural Dick Hamilton, 
Highlit es Track MVP
Last week, two straight throw
ing PiKAs, Frank Neubauer and 
Larry Flach, pitched their way to 
the school championship in horse
shoes. Frank, a southpaw, and 
Larry, a right hander*, defeated 
Gene Neithamer and Forest 
Meiere, ATOs, on a rainy Tuesday 
night. The courts were rather 
soggy, which meant skill, rather* 
than luck, would win the contest.
Pitch Beautifully
Frank and Larry pitched shoes 
beautifully throughout the whole 
tournament. The finals match was 
not the only good night they had. 
They had rugged opponents in 
Davis-Bennett, ATO, and G. 
Wright-Peshut, SAE. They domin
ated in these games by making 
double ringers, covering the other 
pairs ringers, and consistently be
ing near the peg. The champs will 
be back next year to defend their 
title. '
ATO Ahead
The horseshoe pitch shoved 
ATO two and a half points ahead 
of SAE in the race for the big 
trophy. However, these points 
ended ATOs scoring for this year 
since only softball remains. SAE 
has a chance to make the playdffs; nevertheless, ATOs lead 
looks good at present since time 
is running out. The outcome for 
the trophy will be decided this 
week since softball play-offs start 
tonight.
Up-to-cfate point standings  
ATO37 V2, SAE35, Englishmen 
18, SN16%, and Obelisk16.
Carnegie Techs 1959 track 
squad has voted Dick Hamilton as 
its most valuable member. Hamil| ton led the team in scoring, 
amassing 52% points in 6 dual 
meets throughout the season while 
I competing in 5 different events, 
j Until the WPC meet, he was un
defeated in outside competition in 
his best racethe two mile. Along 
with his two mile victories, how1 ever, Hamilton proved versatile 
| enough to chalk up wins in the 
| one mile and the pole vault, as 
well as some extra places in the 
half mile and mile relay.
Leading Runner 
Hamilton has been one of Techs 
leading runners for several years. 
In 1957 he was voted Most Valu
able on the cross country team. 
Last spring he served as co-cap
tain of the track team, and again 
in the fall of 1958 he was select
ed as co-captain of Techs West 
Penn Championship Cross Coun
try team. Individually, Hamilton 
ranked as the second best cross 
country runner in the West Penn 
meet last fall.
A senior, Hamilton will grad
uate this June having won a total 
of 6 varsity letters in four years 
of track and cross country com
petition at Tech.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
Pete Pence pains himself to get his team an extra point with 
better javelin throw.
HIP, HIP, HURRAY 
for the
GREYHOUND9 way 
to save money!
Got the good word about 
Greyhound Scenicruiser 
Service? Its the latest, 
the greatest way to go... 
with air-conditioning, pic
ture windows, air-suspen
sion ride and complete 
restroom! Youll have 8 
ball headin home on a 
Greyhound  its often 
faster than other public 
transportation, and always 
less expensive!
COMPARE THESE LOW, 
LOW FARES:
Cleveland . 
New York . 
Washington 
Philadelphia
.$ 4.60 
. 12.20 
. 8.35
. 9.65
Plus Tax 
BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a
Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package 
Express. They arrive In hours and cost you less!
ITS SUCH A COMFORT 
TO TAKE THE BUS...AND 
LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!
LIBERTY at GRANT 
G Rant 1-5700
Wednesday, May 20, 1859CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Softball
Playoffs
Begin
Tonight
Hamilton
Chosen
MVP
Track Man
Titans Stomp 
*Tecli Harriers
The West Penn Conference 
track championships were de
cided last Saturday with West
minster College emerging as a 
strong winner. The Titans took 
first place in 10 of the 14 events 
to pile up 98^ points. Far'down 
in second place was Geneva with 
Q? points, and Grove City with 
51^ in third place. Carnegie 
Tech with 9 and Waynesburg with 
8 points, respectively, rounded out 
the scoring.
Poor Showing 
This years showing was one of 
the poorest Carnegie has made 
for a long time. The only bright 
spots in the day for the Tartans 
^ere provided by Dick Hamiltons 
^cond place in a close two-mile, 
Eric Suggs third place finish in 
the low hurdles, and a pair of fifth 
places by Pete Pence and John 
Lemmer in the shot and discus.
Techs only strong bid for a 
victory came in the two mile as 
Dick Hamilton raced against 
Westminsters record breaking 
distance star Paul Sanders. Ham
ilton was in contention all the
fay losing out only in the final 
ash to the tape.
Official Championship 
This was the first official track 
championship to be held under 
West Penn Conference direction, 
replacing the old Tri-State coach
es meet. Subsequently, all the 
winning times and distances in 
Saturdays meet will be written 
into the record books as new offi
cial WPC marks.
Carnegie Tartan
Chuck Vodvarka  Sports Editor
me 5e 2Nbrb6.W EDSe Co., Winttoi)- Salem, N. C.
More people are loyal to 
Camels than any other ciga
rette today. It stands to 
reason: the best tobacco 
makes the best smoke. The 
Camel blend of costly tobac
cos has never been equalled 
for rich flavor and easy
going mildness. No wonder 
Camel is the No. 1 cigarette 
of all brands today !
Fads and fancy stuff
are for the birds .. .
Have a real 
cigarettehave a CAMEL
George! George! Drop the Camels!

---------------------------------------------------

Pagr SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 2, 1959
SB Playoffs Are Scheduled 
To Commence At 4:30 Tonight
Rick Finn fouls off a good pitch by Young.
English: WANDERING HORSE
Dick Hamilton, track MVP,
ThinkUsh: FATALOGUETech Ys Elect 
New Officers For 
Coming Season
On Tuesday, May 19, at 5:30 
p.m. the annual YM-YWCA in
stallation dinner was held at the 
Carnegie Union.
Professor John Coleman from 
the department of humanistic and 
social studies spoke on the topic 
1984  Still 25 Years to Go. 
The YWCA installed Betsy Moss 
as president, Ginny Voltz as vice 
president in charge of member
ship, Mary Poelman as vice presi
dent in charge of program, Sue 
Jacobs as secretary, and Becky 
Krauss as treasurer.
Officers
The new officers of the YMCA 
who were installed were: George 
Olsen, president; Carter Franklen, vice president; Dave Ewing, 
secretary; Alan Baker, treasurer; 
George Logan, membership; Mike 
Peshut, program; and Bill Timberlake, publicity. Dr, Kohman 
was installed as the new chair
man of the board.
New members of the advisory 
board of both the YM and YW 
groups were welcomed and old 
officers and board members were 
thanked for their assistance.
ROBERT ROSENTHAL. U. OF MICHIGAN
HOWTO MAKE *25
AYMYM0w0
:awti*30rv
fRAHCVSTake a wordmagazine, for example. With 
it, you can make a burglars weekly (swagazine), a liars club bulletin (bragazine), a | f
mountain-climbing gazette (cragazine) and a m m 1
pin-up periodical (stoga2i7ie).ThatsThirLklish I 1
and its that easy! Were paying $25 for 1| if I
the Thinklish words judged best your check ll VHuffiHRSBw Jjf |
is itching to go! Send your words to Lucky : Jjjr
Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose 
name, address, college and class.
^ . CIGARETTES:;Get the genuine article .< .......................
Get the honest taste 
of a LUCKY STRIKE
Product of  c/v&zefr is our middle mma
English: CIGARETTE COMMERCIAL
MTTtii 
%ST h
ktfryj?
Thinklish: TOBACCOLADE
CALVIN MSCONNELC. U S. NAVAL ACAOEMr
