HOUSING MANAGER DISMISSED
bv Kerin Turcotte
Diane Castelli, CMU Housing Manager, 
*was dismissed on Friday, January 31. Re
placing Ms. Castelli will be Charles 
Williams, the former Dean of Men. His new 
title will be Dean of Residence Life. 
Williams had been involved with Housing in 
an advisory role and will contnue most of 
his former responsibilities. He assumed his 
duties on February 1.
Economic causes were cited for the diss|nissal. The reason for Diane Castellis re
placement is that we felt we had to keep 
the cost of the Housing office within
reasonable bounds, explained Richard 
Van Horn, Vice President of Business 
Affairs, in a WRCT interview.
Another reason stressed by Van Horn 
was a need for a  . .. stronger sense of 
academic involvement in the management 
of Housing. I think Chuck Williams has a 
great deal of experience with students. Hes 
been active with a number of student 
groups. He also emphasized that there was 
 . . . a need for a more experienced senior 
manager in Housing.
One of the problems with Housing in
the past has been that generally, a student 
with a problem would get three different 
answers. Now there will be one clear, clean 
place. Chucks answer might be right or 
wrong, but at least well have only one 
answer. We can take the problem from 
there, said Van Horn.
Van Horn also mentioned that Dean 
Williams lives on campus and will be able 
to deal with problems that occur over 
weekends. There wont be any major 
changes, said Van Horn, Chucks objec
tive is to make the place work.fi tartan
February 4, 1975 Volume 75 Number 16
A Prog
I by Charles Mitch photo bv John Rc
f
Disagreement over the purpose of 
Resident Life program between mem
ram in Controversy
photo by John Rose
Disagreement over the purpose of the 
Resident Life program between members 
of the Resident Assistants staff and Head 
Resident Peg Hair 
have led to charges 
by some RAs that 
the program isnt 
responsive to resi
dents needs. Primar
ily staff members 
from the Hill dorms 
have complained 
that too much em
phasis is placed on 
Head Resident Peg Hair programming instead 
of on actual problems and some have sug
gested that Ms. Hair be replaced.
According to Ms. Hair RAs were es
tablished by President Cyert and Dean 
Swank as a way to provide programming 
for the dorm residents, without program
ming the RAs might be dropped. Assist
ant Head Resident Bob Linn has expressed 
disagreement with this approach saying 
"Peggy and I both see a lot of potential 
and a necessity for the RA program but in 
some areas we disagree on the priorities of 
the RAs job ... Im not convinced on the 
merits of a programming campaign.
While blaming the administration in part 
for emphasizing the wrong priorities, many 
RAs consider Ms. Hair to be responsible 
tor weaknesses in the program. Almost half 
f the 21 RAs were interviewed. Many 
expressed dissatisfaction with Ms. Hair but 
judging her performance. Not all agreed; 
some voiced the opinion that she should be 
replaced because she has already shown 
she isnt competent. Other RAs, especial
ly from Morewood feel that she is doing a 
?s' good job and are quite happy with her 
performance. One commented, a personj ality conflict exists because of different 
approaches to the RAs job, her job makes 
I her a target for criticism, but I dont think
anyone ei'se could do bettei. Most ot the 
complaints are just a lot of gossip which 1 
dont like to get involved with.
Many examples were cited by a number 
of RAs which they felt indicated a lack of 
concern for residents problems. RAs from 
the Hill dorms charge that she isnt familiar 
with their area, that she doesnt understand 
the areas problems and that she doesnt 
have any kind of rapport with the staff. 
One RA commented, her communication 
is so impersonal its nauseating. When 
questioned on this Ms. Hair admitted, Im 
not familiar with that area. She added 
that she didnt plan to do anything to 
become more familiar because if she spent 
time over there, there would be no way 
for someone to contact me when I was 
away from my office.
Crime, especially theft, was a common 
concern of most of the RAs talked to. 
They feel that they should do what they 
can to guard against crime without becom
ing dangerously involved. One RA com
mented, the way our security force is, our 
first responsibility is to protect our prop
erty. I havent heard of anything being 
done thats not justified but it could get 
out of hand. Another RA pointed out 
that the blacks on campus are disturbed 
because no one thinks anything of a 
strange white hanging around, but when an 
unknown black comes on campus then 
everyone gets suspicious. Ms. Hair expres
sed concern about the possibility of vigil
ante actions, maybe Im conscious of 
these things because Im from the South, 
but Im afraid of people getting carried 
away by mob emotions. In several cases, 
through the help of the RAs following 
suspects, Security has been able to make 
arrests. Some RAs object because she 
doesnt want RAs involved in such actions. 
She commented, That isnt a job for 
RAs, it should be left to Security, but the 
problem is, Security is undermanned. 
Another common complaint is that the
continued on page 3
Chuck Williams photo by John Shettel
Trespasser
Arrested
by Kevin Turcotte
A male trespasser was arrested in Morewood Gardens on Thursday, January 23. 
CMU Security officers Armand Castelli and 
Fred Shoettle responded to a phone call 
complaining about an unknown male on 
one of the girls floors.
He was asked to produce some identifi
cation. He started getting boisterous, 
thats when we brought him over to the 
office, said Castelli, the arresting officer. 
We didnt have any intentions of arresting 
him. He just wouldnt cooperate.Corletti 
talked to him for a while and got tired of 
his games. He told me to book him.
The trespasser was arraigned that night 
and bond was set at $1000. He was tried 
Monday, January 27 in Allegheny City 
Court and found guilty. A $36 dollar fine 
was imposed, $11 of which went toward 
court costs.
The trespasser had been warned once 
before, when he was caught trespassing in 
Morewood during early December. 
Theres just no room for trespassing in 
those areas [Morewood Gardens], said 
Security Director Michael Corletti. Its 
jthe same as being unauthorized to go into 
your home.
Officer Castelli urged students to report 
unknown and suspicious characters on 
campus. We can check them out and start 
to do something about the problem, he 
said.ComputerCorporation Formed
photo bv John Shettel
by John Spaulding
A new corporation has been formed as 
an offshoot of Camegie-Mellon University. 
The Three Rivers Computer Corporation 
was incorporated in October 1974 by five 
members of the Computer Science 
Engineering Department and a professor of 
Computer Science. Three Rivers produces 
complex electronic devices, many of which 
were developed at CMU.
The Department of Computer Science 
receives government research contracts to 
construct electronic equipment as a final 
result of the research or to use as instru
mentation for other purposes. The designs
for the equipment remain in the public 
domain and are available to anyone on 
request. However, according to James 
Teter, production manager of the Com
puter Science Engineering Department, 
only the person who developed the device 
can readily set it in operation. Companies 
and research organizations reading tech
nical papers based on this research at times 
call CMU to request purchasing infor
mation. Until October, these requests were 
left unanswered because CMU does not 
manufacture products for sale. However, 
they are now referred to Three Rivers.
continued on page 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975
0 ^ Til ms -for oor
lu a I + a vxcwAitjL. u )Vfi\ )VV
WHEN THE 
LIGHTS GO OUT
The old statement, time is money  is a constant theme 
on the campus of Carnegle-Mellon. Students compose the 
major proportion of the campus community and yet are 
often neglected. Campus facilities are never open to suit the 
students time schedules; we are at the mercy of Warner Hall 
hours.
The campus environment crucially affects the students 
state of mind. The student pays tuition of $2900 each year 
and how much of this goes into creating an atmosphere that 
caters to the students comfort and convenience? NOT 
ENOUGH! The university places academic pressures on us; at 
the same time, it fails to recognize that we must work at all 
hours and we cant take full advantage of university facilities 
at the hours when they are open.
/ thought it was common knowledge that a large propor
tion of students stay up quite late to complete their 
schoolwork. Food service ignores this fact. After midnight, 
there is no place to eat on campus. Because the Tartan grill 
employs students, / dont see why the grill cant extend its 
hours, at least on weekends. Its ironic and purposeless that 
Skibo remains open till 1 am on weekends while the grill 
doses at midnight. The weekend movies end after dosing 
hours and its a 15 minute walk to Ritters Diner. If food 
service is concerned about staying financially secure, it would 
seem profitable to extend grill hours. As the only food facility 
on campus, the Tartan grill has a golden opportunity to gain 
extra profit.
The athletic department also seems unaware of student 
schedules. On most days, the swimming pool is open for the 
campus communitys use only from 12:30 to 1:20 pm. Many 
classes are given during this hour and those students who 
dont have classes usually eat lunch at this time. Would it be 
so difficult to hire a student life guard at a time which is 
more conducive to students time schedules? / recognize that 
the swim team works out at certain hours, but surely swim
mers would prefer extended pool hours. The same notion of 
extended hours applies to the gym. Many students want to 
work out and because the gym is rarely open at night or on 
weekends, they cant.
And, Im sorry to say that students have no way of 
controlling when they get sick. Its inexcusable that the poor 
John Doe who gets an intestinal flu at 11 pm must call 
security to take him to Shady side Hospital. If security is 
fighting crime somewhere else, John must wait for them to 
come. Its a bad break for John if he gets sicker and its worse 
for the university if he vomits all over the place. CM U should 
have a nurse or doctor on duty 24 hours every day. This 
would take some pressure off security who might in turn, be 
more efficient. / see no reason why security should be a 
regular delivery service except in emergency cases.
In order for us to perform well academically, the state 
of our bodies must be considered. Our academic schedules 
cant be changed; campus service hours can. We deserve 
accomodation. Time may mean money, but by extending 
hours of facilities on campus, the university will be making a 
worthwhile investment. Its time for the university to consi
der its major investors.
Debbie Siegel
liaidollarOKI
4tacki/C-ft)
letters
Editor:
If your roommate moves out, 
suddenly converting your double 
room into a single, withotit any 
assistance or desire on your part, 
CMU Housing expects you to 
pay $90. Even if your roommate 
is a senior graduating early, and 
thus cannot in all compassion be 
expected to stay around, it will 
cost you $90.
Housing also doesnt seem to
believe in a pro-rata system for 
the $90 charge. Notices were re
ceived at the end of January, yet 
the cost for the entire month is 
included. There should be an ad
justed price to cover the time 
already used up.
It isnt enough, apparently, 
that Housing simultaneously con
fiscates your $100 dorm deposit.
Not a bad way to make 
money.
Now Housing states that this 
has long been their policy, and 
expresses surprise at complaints.
Well, after checking with two
upperclassmen in the Hill dorms, 
I find that sometimes when you 
refuse to pay the $90, you dis
cover that next semester you 
cant register for classes. And 
then, sometimes when you dont 
pay the money, you never hear 
another word about it.
Consistency?
Has Housing thought of what 
it would do next if every student 
whose roommate moved out 
immediately asked to have a new 
roommate supplied?
Name withheld on request
tartan
Editor-in-chief: Debbie Siegel
Managing Editor: Gary Singer
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
News Editor: Kevin Turcotte
Entertainment Editor: Mark Chimsky
Photography Editor: Greg McKenna
Sports Editor: John Shettel
Features Editor: * Dave Kanner
Staff Writers: Diane Bottonari, Steven Correll, Sharon Curcio, James Fletcher, Dolores Foster, Fred 
Freedman, Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Lisa Gordon, Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell, Susen N. Klein, 
Cheryl Lawson, Claire Lee, Lisa Lieberman, Nancy Lyons, John Mangano, Mike Pochan, Amy Reitmeyer, 
Dave Roussos, Paul Smith, John Spalding, Tom Schwartz, Chip Yeager, Lisa Zeidner Charles Mitch
Photographers: Richard Fisher, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Ed Levine, Dave Meeker, Elliot Popowitz, 
Rodman Reilly, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith
Business: Tony Fine, Tom Kendig, Arthur Silverberg
Art: Nancy Bink, Nonie Dempsey, Kitty Fischer, Mindy Maier
Layout and Typesetting: John Mangano, Ronnie Savion, Paula Strasser, Carl Grefenstette, Dave Groupe 
Jim Vlasic, Mary Kay Groupe
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers unfit 
for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Penn. 15213. 
Editorial offices are located in Skibo 50, Business office in Skibo 52. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus 
extension 656.
editors note

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975-Page 3news comment
tiVarsity Sports are 
Here to Stay
by Escherichia Coli
Back at the beginning of the 
year, President Cyert told the 
faculty that intercollegiate sports 
(not counting intramurals and 
hys ed, which must compete for, 
unds) cost around $100,000 per 
year.
By my calculations, that 
works out to $29.81 per under
graduate per year, taking the Fall 
1974 enrollment of 3354 under
graduates and part-time students.
Which is equivalent to a lot of 
Saturday nights spent gorging 
Ourselves on Ginos pizza.
And, like most escherichia, I 
love pizza.
So last week I set out to ask 
some incisive questions about 
our varsity program. While doing 
my laundry in Hammerschlag 
basement, I recognized a guy 
from my Molecular Biology of 
^Microorganisms class who hap
pens to be on the football team.
Do you think its fair for the 
administration to spend so much 
of our tuition money on varsity 
when so few students can hope 
to make the teams and hardly 
any of the rest ever worry 
about how the games come 
ut? I asked.
He brought his giant fist down 
squarely on top of one of the 
dryers, causing the sheet metal to 
bow in two inches and then vi
brate for ten seconds before set
tling down into a dent seven 
inches long.
Durn thing ate my ticket but 
phe pilot wouldnt come on, he 
said apologetically. They always 
work if you know how to tap 
them just right, though. Now, 
what were you saying?
Nothing, I said quickly. 
Say, this dryer over here did the 
same thing to me. Do you think 
you could fix it, too?
Somehow my question never 
got answered, so when I got back 
to my room I decided to talkby 
phoneto another very physical 
friend of mine.
What about intramurals? I 
asked. Don't they provide 
I tough enough competition for 
I varsity athletes? 
p I dont know about the comI petition, he said, but youd be 
I crazy to play IM. Heck, intramurals are dangerous. You could 
actually get hurt, the way sonic 
oi .hose pvys, take the game sor1 H*sly. They really : ;e! they 
fcotra win, you know? They 
dort even have an smbuiai^-;
stationed on the field in case 
something happens.
Next I called up the Director 
of Athletics, Mr. B.V. Danes, to 
ask him whether the varsity pro
gram was all that important in 
attracting students who other
wise wouldnt enroll at CMU.
Definitely, he said. With 
applications to H&SS dropping 
this year, we decided to ap
proach them about setting up a 
phys ed major in their college. 
They said we werent quantita
tive enough, but were still trymg.
Armed with these insights, I 
visited a high level administrator 
in Warner Hall.
When I came into office two 
and a half years ago, he said, I 
resolved that if we were going to 
have a sports program, then lets 
have a winner.
Maybe we should install a 
mechanism to lower the hoop a 
few inches automatically on the 
home-team side of the gym, I 
suggested.
We do have a little left over 
from the Carnegie grant, he 
mused. I wonder if that qual
ifies as an innovation in educa
tional techniques?
Youve been heard to say 
that the Student Activities Fee 
which pays for movies and con
certs and WRCT and the 
TARTAN and so forthought to 
be optional instead of required, 
and I guess thats really the fair 
way to do it. Do you agree that 
each student should be able to 
decide whether he wants his 
tuition money spent so some
body else can play varsity 
sports? I asked.
The glance he shot me was a 
plea for understanding.
Definitely, he said. But do 
you realize how much we just 
spent to have the second half of 
the bleachers covered with al
uminum so the spectators wont 
get splinters in their asses? Are 
we supposed to let an investment 
like that go to waste?
So, my friends, varsity is here 
to stay. Im not so sure about 
intramurals, the counseling cen
ter, health service or financial 
aid; but as the TARTAN told 
you last week, its every stu
dents responsibility to support 
the team.
Kiss you; $29.8! goodbye. 
Pizza is fattening, anyway, and 
you arent going o lose any 
weiA sitting in the alumunzed 
bleacher* v atchi;ig the virs n 
pis\ *
RA's
program has not been publicized 
enough. One RA stated that no 
one knows what the RAs are 
doing and what they can do; 
nothing is being done in the way 
of publicity. When asked about 
publicity Ms. Hair responded, 
publicity is up to the individual . 
RA. She added that she had no 
plans for any because none was 
needed.
Also frequently mentioned 
was Ms. Hairs attitude toward 
first aid training, which some 
Hill RAs took last fall. Those 
involved felt that it was good for 
them to have the training and 
claimed that in at least two cases 
lives were saved by the im
mediate first aid treatment given 
by an RA before Security 
arrived. They also pointed out 
that arrangements for the 
training were made by Bob Linn 
and that Ms. Hair didnt want to 
have anything to do with it.
When asked about this, she com
mented jokingly, They think 
thats the greatest thing thats 
happened all year. I dont place 
that as being of the greatest im
portance; were not here to be 
paramedics.
Complaints were also voiced 
about Ms. Hairs request that the 
RA keep a record of the number 
of pingpong games, frisbee 
tosses, and other kinds of interactions that occurred in their . 
areas. General reaction among 
those contacted was that the re
quest was ridiculous and that 
they werent even trying to keep 
such records. One RA 
commented that if we kept 
track like Peg wants us to wed 
never be able to do any study
ing. Ms. Hair responded when 
asked about this that even 
though its been hooted at, I still 
expect those records to be 
kept. She pointed out that 
while working in similar posi
tions at the Universities of 
Louisville and Indiana, she had 
found such records to be very 
useful.
Discontent appears mainly 
limited to RAs from the Hill 
dorms. One resigned last semes
ter because of dissatisfaction 
with the way the program was 
managed. Another RA stated 
that all the RAs are staying in 
just for the money. Im staying 
in for the money. Others de
nied this, however, commenting 
that they felt most of the RAs 
were trying to do a good job. It 
was often suggested that a larger 
staff would help the program. In 
part Ms. Hair agreed, saying 
there are a lot of peoples prob
lems were not getting to. She 
added that she didnt want a big
ger staff, the present size is as 
large as I can handle right now. I 
need to improve my own admin
istrative abilities.
All involved in the program, 
including Ms. Hair, agree that 
efforts to bring programming to 
the dorm residents last semester 
were a failure. They hope to cor
rect this by presenting programs 
which the residents have indi
cated a desire for in a recently 
compiled interest survey.
ENGINEERS
Chemical... Mechanical... Industrial... Metallurgical.. .Ceramic...
N L INDUSTRIES OFFERS NOT JUST A JOB
BUT A FUTURE.

The TARTAN news staf' wiil meet tfu. WetUu*ay a; 7:39 p.m 
Nev. vw rii,-* > arc always vcicoine.
N L Industries is a diversified, muitinational manufacturer with sales in ex
cess of 1 billion dollars.
Our product emphasis is in chemi
cals, metals, die castings, pigments, 
bearings, plastics, and nuclear and oil 
wel materials and services...de
signed roani/acurifti, and marketed 
by 2C.000 employees In our more than 
?0C: p!a?ft>, offices, and laboratories 
th cughoiit thv> woria
Our openings are for resultsoriented engineers interested in ad
vancement to managerial positions. If 
your interest is in production, design, 
sales, plant engineering, or research 
and development, N L Industries wants 
to discuss a job with a future with you.
I ats meet on campus 
to discuss the career opoortunities for you with |
N L industries. INDUSTRIES
OUB CAMPUS INTERVIEW DTE: FEBRUARY 11.12
..J U.
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Ma</Female __________________J

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
Page 4THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975
Dress rehearsals on February 11 and 12 for
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM will be 
open to CMU students who were unable to 
secure a ticket for one of the regularly 
scheduled performances. Tickets will not 
be required for these two dress rehearsals. 
Doors will open at 7:50. Curtain at 8:20. 
No one will be admitted after the rehearsal 
begins.
The Center for Entrepreneurial Develop
ment and the Enterprise Program, Carnegie-Mellon University, announce two 
programs on industrial enviornmental 
health and hygiene. The first program with 
two sessions, February 12 and 19, 7 to 10 
pm, Scaife Hall for Engineering, is entitled 
"Industrial Organic Vapors, Their Health 
Hazards and Measurement." The second 
program, also two sessions, February 26 
and March 12, 7 to 10 pm, Scaife Hall for 
Engineering, is entitled "Industrial Dusts, 
Their Health Hazards and Measurements."
The first program briefly covers trends 
in industrial environmental hygiene, 
toxicity of organic vapors, occupational 
health and environmental contaminants 
and measurement of organic vapors.
FREE TUTORING: All students wanting 
tutorial help in any CIT and MIS freshman 
or sophomore course can now receive 
tutoring services free of charge. For more 
information call or drop in to the Peer 
Help Center. Baker Hall 150A, 621-9900. 
The Institute of International Education is 
pleased to announce a new fellowhip pro
gram for studies Fn Japan. The awards, 
made available through funds provided by 
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., are de
signed to provide the opportunity for predoctoral American graduate students to 
spend five to six months studying and re
searching in various fields.
Disciplines for which awards are avail
able include urban planning, traffic and safe
ty planning, environmental studies, indus
trial relations, business management, re
source problems, economic policy and 
problems of democracy in an industrial 
society.
Information and application forms for 
this porgram may be obtained by contact
ing the Division of Study Abroad Pro
grams, Institute of International Edu
cation, 809 United Nations Plaza, New 
York, New York 10017. Applications are 
also available in 207 Warner Hall. The 
deadline for receipt of completed appli
cations is April 1, 1975.
</IAKE OUR CAMPUS BEAUTIFUL!!
ENTER THE "CMU CHILD CARE 
'ENTER SIGN CONTEST. We need a 
iew sign to hang above our door. Entries 
oust be 4'x4' and weatherproof. Open to 
ie CMU campus community. Entries are 
;ue February 14, 1975 at the Child Care 
Center, rear of Morevvood Gardens. Judg
ing by the children. Prize will be two Three 
Rivers Passbooks, each worth $15. For in
formation call Mary or Patti at 687-6394. 
CMU Ski Club presents a night ski trip to 
Seven Springs February 7, 1975. This trip 
includes Friday night skiing and round trip 
t ansportation. AM are welcome. Please sign 
up at the Skibo Information Desk by 
Thursday, February 6. For further infor 
rration call 682-5662.
c-ee pregnancy testing Monday through
~r day. Results confidential arid available 
'TV same day For information contact 
Vomen's Health Services, inc. 562-1900.
Professors Allan H. Meltzer and Peter N.
Stearns will discuss the futurism of despair 
as portrayed in Robert L. Heilbroner's 
book. An Inquiry into the Human Pros
pect. This lecture will focus on provoc
ative, contemporary issues such as over
population, the food crisis and the future 
of man. Campus Program Planning will 
sponsor this discussion Wednesday night, at 
7:30 pm in Breed Hall.
The Country Dance and Song Society of 
Pittsburgh and the English Room Com
mittee of the University of Pittsburgh will 
sponsor their annual Valentine's Dance 
Party and Benefit on Saturday, February
15, 1975. The event will be held in the 
lower hall of the Stephen Foster Memorial 
on Forbes Avenue at the University of 
Pittsburgh from 7:30 pm to 11:00 pm. 
Instruction and prompting for traditional 
English dances will be by several Pittsburgh 
area dance leaders. A donation will benefit 
the Scholarship Fund of the English Room 
Committee.
Campus Program Planning presents the Dir
ector of the National Theatre, Athens 
Greece. Takis Mouzenidis will speak on 
Greek Theatre, Ancient and Modern, 
Thursday, February 6, at 8:00 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
LUNCHES SERVED WEEKDAYS
11:30-1:15, 85 cents. Soup, Sandwich, 
Dessert, Coffee or Tea. Milk five cents 
extra. Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave.
Keep ahead and keep informed with Cam
pus Program Planning's Calendar. Available 
with ID at the Skibo Information Desk. 
OBSCURITY, ABSURDITY, COMEDY
AND GOOD MUSIC: Join Zeke Gibbs 
(CMU's resident agronomy major) every 
Saturday night from 12 to 3 am on WRCT, 
88.3 FM.
The German Conversation Lunch Hour,
11:45-12:35, occurs every Tuesday in the 
Kiltie Cafe. Meet the entire faculty of 
German teachers. German students, 
German speakers and anyone interested in 
a little foreign culture, are invited. Fluency 
is not, and never will be, a requisite.
La Table Franaise will meet again every 
Friday at 11 am for informal chats in 
French. Everyone welcome. Downstairs 
cafeteria of Skibo, Staff cafeteria side. 
Watch for the little French flag.
Women's Health Services, Inc., a non-profit
abortion clinic at 625 Stanwix Street, 
downtown Pittsburgh, announces expan
sion of its free pregnancy testing. Free 
pregnancy tests are offered every Wednes
day afternoon from 1:00 pm to 4:00 pm, 
as well as Monday through Friday from 
8:00 am to 9:00 am. For further infor
mation contact: Mary Ellen Tunney at 
562-1937.
Scotch 'n' Soda will hold technical aud
itions in Skibo on February 5 (room num
ber to be posted at the Information Desk), 
from 2 to 5 and from 7 to 10 pm. Some 
responsible positions are still open, as are 
apprentice-type positions (for the inexper
ienced or the theatre-dabbler). This spring, 
why not share our show?
TF's GRADS PROF's EARN $2000 or 
more & FREE 5-8 WEFKi> IN EUROPE, 
AFRICA, ASIA. Nationwide ed'-.un:oia! 
organ./at ion needs qua1 if ted leader:; roU.S. and College groups. Send name, rd 
dress, phone, school, resume, leadership ex
perience to: Center lor Foreijn Study, P.O. 
Box 606, Anr Arbor, Ml 48107.
The Story of Eric. Infor
mation about POCE classes and activities is 
available by writing P.O. Box 10480, Pitts
burgh, Pa. 15234; or by calling 221-3066. 
There will be a meeting of all Spring Car
nival booth chairpersons Sunday February
16 in Room 46 Skibo at 3:00 pm to 
choose booth themes and plots.
On Thursday, February 6, Leslie Wilkins 
will speak on "The Parole Decision: Issues 
in the Criminal Justice System." Leslie 
Wilkins is from the School of Criminal 
Justice, State University of New York at 
Albany. Wilkins will speak at 3:30 pm in 
Baker Hall 340-A.
Attention! The Admissions Office is in
need of tour guides for this semester. If 
interested, please stop by the Admissions 
Office to sign up. Tour guides are offered 
$1.00 for each tour they conduct.
Hold it! Let Harold Corsini snap you into 
the History of Photography through a 
media discussion. Brought to you by Cam
pus Program Planning, this is one program 
you don't want to miss. It's "cheese," 
Tuesday, February 11, at 7:30 pm in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Lincoln's birthday is Wednesday, February
12, and in an effort to commemorate it, 
Campus Program Planning is offering a dis
cussion on Lincoln and Reconstruction, 
Myths and Realitites. Dr. Mark E. Neely, 
Jr., the director at the Lincoln Library and 
Museum will speak at 6:30 pm in Breed 
Hall. Please note the time and subject 
change of Dr. Neely's lecture.
COME TO SPAIN,FOR SPRING RECESS. 
19-27 March 1975. Visit Madrid (3 days), 
Sevilla (2 days), and nearby towns. Double 
rooms, private bath, two meals a day, and 
all land transportation, seven days, $150. 
Round-trip air fare New York-Madrid-New 
York $240. All students, faculty, relatives 
and friends welcome. Knowledge of Span
ish, thoiigh helpful, is not required. For 
details and reservations, contact as soon as 
possible: Prof. Jose L. Varela-lbarra, Baker 
Hall 228C, Modern Langaages.
As part of Israel Week 1975, CarnegieMellon will be the host of several events on 
Tuesday, February 12, in the Skibo Ball
room. From 10 am to 3 pm, there will be 
an information booth and Kibbutz Exhibit. 
During the lunch hours, a Felafel Stand 
will be operating. At 2:30 pm, there will be 
a slide show about Israel and at 3 pm, the 
movie: "I Love You, Rosa." This is an 
Israeli film which deals with women's 
rights and Jewish-Arab coexistence. At 
7:30 pm, another Israeli film, "The Siege" 
will be shown. It involves the life of a 
widow whose husband was killed in the Six 
Day War. All events are free, except for 
food sold at the Felafel Stand.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
will hold its first lunch and lecture of the 
Winter Lunch and Lecture Series at the 
University of Pittsburgh on February 6 at 
noon in the Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 315
S. Beliefield Ave. The speaker will be Prof. 
Donald M. Goldstein whose topic will be 
"Arab-lsraeli Conflict: A Different
Approach." Lunch is optional. Speaker be
gins at 12:20 pm.
The German Conversation Lunch Hour,
11:45-12:45, occurs every Tuesday in the 
Kiltie Cafe. Meet the entire faculty of Ger
man teachers. German students, German 
speakers and anyone interested in a little 
foreign culture, are invited. Fluency is not, 
and never will be, a requisite.
La Table Franaise will meet again every
Friday at 11 am for informal chats in 
French. Everyone welcome. Downstairs 
cafeteria of Skibo, Staff cafeteria side. 
Watch for the little French flag.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
will hold a Bagel & Lox Brunch at Carnegie-Mellon in the Skibo Faculty Dining 
Room at 11 am on Sunday, Feb. 9. Come 
for brunch or just for the speaker who will 
be Prof. Rudolph Fellner. His topic will be 
"Jews in Opera."
Classified
WANTED: Black female roommate to
share luxurious Oakland apartment. For in
formation call 621-9483 after 5:00 pm. 
Need a typist? 15 years typing experience.
Theses, term papers, reports, manuscripts, 
etc. Reasonable rates. Call after 5 pm. 
481-3041.
LOST: 1 black and white kitten, irregular
markings. Last seen in vicinity of Hill 
Dorms. Any informationcontact Barb, 
621-7767.
WANTED: Arts and crafts of all kinds tor
selling on consignment. Call 362-6562 
evenings.
Female models needed for promotional
campaign. Earn excellent salary in spare 
time. Send photo and resume to A&R 
Associates, P.O. Box 7220, Oakland 
Station, Pgh. Pa. 1521 ^
1 bedroom fur. apt., w-w cpt, ac, equip.
kit., utilities pd. exc. elec., next to Shadyside. $175/mo. Imm. occup. Call 361-6525 
after 6 pm.
Trumpet teacher wanted for player with
one year's experience $4.00/hour. 
621-3097.
Personals
Happy Birthday Big 20! Love from
Upstairs 1610.
Kevin C.Stop your bootlicking now! The
shoe polish is poison.
UNIVERSITY COPY SERVICE
209 N. Craig St. 681-5411
LOWEST PRICES Call about our large volume rates and delivery ser
CGR COPIES v'ce 'or any sPec'a* copyinci needs.
Colatinq.....................................................No Extra Charge
SING! E COPIES.....................................bc Leqal SteQ.................................................No Fxtra Chary*'
MULTIPLE COPIES 3 Hole Punched ..........................No Ex*a Ohatge
1stCot'v..........................................  4' 2 Side Copying......................................No Extra Charge
2 51 Copes...................................................3 ALSO
5 i >r more copies 2 * OFFSET f RINTING  IPWCOST BOOKBINDING
SOFT CCVEf-'S $ .85 ;ny* up HAPD COVERS C3.60 and up

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975-Page 5
BARRY SUSSMAN
Special Watergate Editor, Washington Post
Will Speak On
"UNRAVELLING THE GREAT 
COVER UP"
/A Discussion on The Editorial, Political
And Economic Ramifications of Investigating 
Corruption in Government.
as the first of the 5 part
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
SYMPOSIUM ON MODERN 
AMERICAN JOURNALISM
8:00 P.M., FEBRUARY 13 
SKIBO BALLROOM
free and open to the public
Sponsored by:
CMU TARTAN 
AB PROGRAMMING FUND 
CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
RESIDENT LIFE PROGRAMMING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975
news briefs
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 
ATHLETICS RE-EVALUATION
Any member of the University 
community interested in taking part in the 
re-evaluation of the Carnegie-Meilon ath
letic program should contact the chair: persons of the special committees listed 
below:
Intercollegiate: John Barbour
661-4388; Charles La Valle 681-2118 
Intramurals: Mike Pochan, 682-8810 
Gordon Morrison, 687-4258
Womens Athletics: Marty Lisbergei 
661-2842, Elly Zimmerman, 682-8899 
Physical Facilities: Tom Binnie
I 621-9180; Willie Thompson, 687-3024 
j Student, Faculty and Staff Survey 
Piadeep Govil, 687-2159; Doug Konopka 
621-3445
The final results of the survey and com
mittees findings will be combined in a 
position paper to be presented to the Fac 
] ulty Senate for recommendations and thei 
sent to the administration.
VETERANS TO BE PAID 
Mrs. Lois Cox, Director of Student Affairs 
Administrative Services, has received inCo mpiled by Lisa Gordon
formation that veterans who were residents 
of Pennsylvania at the time they went into 
the service and who had service in Viet
nam, Thailand, Cambodia and Laos after 
July 3, 1965, are entitled to $25.00 a 
month for each month spent there. Under 
certain conditions, provisions are made for 
service in Okinawa and the Philippines or 
for service in direct support of these areas. 
Next of kin of deceased veterans are also 
eligible.
To obtain forms to file a claim for this 
pay, veterans should call 355-4478, Alle
gheny County Office of Veterans Affairs, 
and forms will be mailed to them. Deadline 
for filing is March 28, 1975.
UFO OFFICERS ELECTED
The United Fraternal Organization elected 
new officers on January 27. The results 
were: President of UFO, Farrel Heifer; 
President of Council Fraternity Presidents, 
Larry Kurzweil; President of Pan-Hellenic 
Council, Gail Brenner; Secretary, John 
Dougherty; and Treasurer, Teresa Bona.
Spring Carnival 
Preparations Underway
by Nancy Lyons
Involvement in Spring Carnival is 
increasing this year. Jerry Digenaro, Mid
way Co-Chairman, said, Spring Carnival is 
not just for the Greek organizations on this 
campus. The Carnival committee is and has 
been encouraging independents, clubs and 
faculty members to join in the effort in 
making this years Carnival the best. The 
theme for Carnival this year is Games and 
Board Games. The entire design and 
building of the Midway will be done by 
independents, Double Es and Architects. 
Spring Carnival, which is going to be held 
April 17-19 is already well into the plan
ning stages. In a recent Carnival meeting 
the booth chairmen for each organization 
voted to title the Midway Ye Olde Game 
Shoppe. Digenaro said, The general 
reaction to the Carnival theme has been 
very positive. The Committee is sure that 
everyone will work harder on their booths 
because the Midway trophies are bigger and 
better than ever. Midway trophies for this 
year were custom designed.
Any group can be judged this year in 
Carnival. Although, to win a trophy re
quires two years of prior competition. In 
addition to all the Spring Carnival games 
there will be a Tug of War competition
this year. People are still needed to work 
on Carnival.
RUGS
for
less
with Your ID Card
1000 Room-Size Rugs 
9x12c $15-$19-$29-S39
Also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s. etc. 
Smaller area rugs in Oriental.
Indian and furry styles.
CHASE'S RUGS
4513 Liberty Av*., Bloomfield
(54-C bus lets off at the store)
Opan Dally 12 to 6 pm 
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm 
FOR INFORMATION - DIRECTIONS  621-1025
WIN $20
~ rAS ensoof 
eHum3 eHNTmST
The cover design may be either 
black and white or color, a 
drawing, sketch, painting or 
photograph n literally anything that 
is related to eMU and 
photographable.
Deadline for entries is ~pril 1o, 
1975.
For further details, contact:
ensoof eHMMSTTmm 
sox 1oo 
eampus Mail
srought to you by 
~lpha rhi Hmega
"Women's Week" Planned for March
Women on the Carnegie-Meilon Univer
sity campus are organizing a week long 
program about Women. This program is 
tentatively called Womens Week, and is 
scheduled for March 10-15. Womens Week 
is sponsored by the CMU Womens Collec
tive and Campus Program Planning, and 
will be funded by Campus Program Plan
ning, Activities Board Programming Fund, 
Resident Life Program, Womens Collective 
and various other sources.
Each day will be devoted to a specific 
issue; psychology, sociology, image 
makers, legal rights, education and art, 
working women, athletics and health. 
These topics will be explored in work
shops, lectures, and film. Some of the 
specific topics are Sexism and Language, 
How Women are Viewed in the Marketing 
Process, Sex Discrimination and the 
Law, Leadership Roles for Women in 
Education, Social Security, Benefits, 
Credit, Cancer in Women: Pap Smear, 
Breast Examination.
Womens Week Meetings are held every 
Tuesday and Thursday at 12-1 noon in 
room 21 in Skibo. All women are invited 
to attend, participate in the planning and
work on various committees. Women from 
the CMU faculty and administration, in 
conjunction with students, have given the 
program its character. Marty Lisberger, 
Barbara Freeman, Pat McFarland and 
Sheila McBride are students in key 
positions.
These women wish to focus the program 
to meet the needs of the CMU woman; 
the issues present constructive and creative 
approaches to women functioning in 
American culture.
Sue Christian, who is co-chairperson 
with Marty Lisberger, would like to see 
more students at the planning sessions on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays and actively par
ticipating in the program. Sue explained 
that students have been mainly involved 
in entertainment, publicity, and input of 
ideas for the program. She reported that 
the main goal of Womens Week is to 
provide as much information as possible 
to Carnegie women about whatever life
style they set for themselves; the goal is 
very broad.
One event to raise funds for the 
Womens Week is a bake sale scheduled for 
February 14. Bob Linn, assistant head 
resident, is organizing the sale and wants 
men to do all baking and selling.
Want straight talk on drugs?
PEER HELP 
Students Helping Students 
Baker Hall 150A or 621-9900
e~3NmGSmnMmLLHN SYMrHSSUM
HN
MHDm3N ~Mm3Se~N JHU3N~LSSM
FEB. 13 8:00 p.m.
Ballroom
FEB. 20 8:30 p.m.
Room 46
FEB. 27 8:30 p.m.
Room 46
MAR 6 8:30 p.m.
Room 46
MAR 13 *:30 p.m.
Room 46
Barry Sussman, WASHINGTON POST 
"Unravelling the Great Cover-up
Ed McHale UNITED PRESS INTERNATTONAL 
Robert Benjamin, UNITED PRESS INT.
"Wire Service News Coverage"
Tom Kerr, Attorney; CMU 
"The Press and the Law"
Barney Calame, WALL STREET JOURNAL 
"Business and Newspapers"
Eileen Colianni, FORUM
Susan Reimer, ASSOCIATED PRESS
"Women in Journalism"
All lectures will take place in Skibo, 
and are free and open to the public.
Sponsored By:
CMU TARTAN 
AB. PROGRAMMING FUND 
CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
RESIDENT LIFE PROGRAMMING

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1975 - Page 7
DESIGN FOR
EMERGENCY
HOUSING IN 
BANGLADESH

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 8February 4,1975
Cover by John Homick
Designing 
mmergency 
3elief Shelters
by Sharon Curcio
In June of 1973 an interdisciplinary team represent
ing CMU submitted a design for emergency relief shelters 
in tropical areas to the Agency for International 
Development (AID). The shelter originated as a senior 
Civil Engineering project in advanced building structures. 
An interdisciplinary program, involving the Architecture, 
Civil Engineering and Chemical Engineering depart
ments, was developed to broaden the application of the 
original design. The improved design is now entered in 
international competition for the UNESCO Prize. Bam
boo, thatch, stabilized soil and the concept of natives 
being able to construct the unit themselves lend the 
proposed two story A-frame shelter its competitive 
advantages.
Last year Dr. Charles H. Goodspeed, an associate 
professor in the Civil Engineering department, and a 
team of civil engineering students spent two weeks in the 
jungles of Guatemala. There they constructed a single 
unit 50 feet in length, thirty feet wide and twenty-five 
feet high. This March, Volker Hartkopf, assistant pro
fessor of Architecture, will accompany Dr. Goodspeed 
and student engineers for a five-week session near Dacca, 
Bangladesh to construct two to four emergency shelters 
on land donated to the team. Professor Goodspeed men
tioned that if the structure successfully passes the en
vironmental and cultural tests it may be adopted as 
low-cost housing or an emergency prototype by various 
relief organizations such as CARE or the Red Cross.
A report on the housing model assembled by students
A-frame shelter being constructed in the Peten 
Jungles of Guatemala. Photo courtesy of Prof. 
Volker Hartkopf.
Richard Behr and Ray Evangelista specified that the 
only materials considered for the design were those 
indigenous to tropical areas. For this reason the mat
erials selected for the construction were bamboo, palm 
thatch, reeds, earth and twine or ropes. Professor Good
speed pointed out that in Bangladesh imported building 
materials are not only difficult to transport to emer
gency areas, but also that the cost of an imported 
material such as cement would be prohibitive ($25.00 
per bag). David Broaden, one of the students who helped 
to design the unit, explained that stabilized soil, earth 
treated with a vinyl monomer, was an invaluable mater
ial. Stabilized soil adds a great deal of strength and 
flexibility to the structure. Although the A-frame struc
ture has the advantage of wind resistance, the structure 
must be built upon a firm base. The stabilized soil helps 
to anchor the unit as well as to support it. Without such 
support, the monsoon floods and storms would literally 
rip the structure out of the ground. He added that 
research on stabilizing compounds continues with the 
objective of finding another chemical additive such as the 
vinyl monomer to be used for roofing and anchoring the 
structure in addition to lining the drainage networks in 
the refugee camps.
The Behr-Evangelista report mentions that a twothirds scale prototype shelter was constructed in the 
Civil Engineering Laboratory to investigate the tech
niques of bamboo construction. Both this report as well 
as a proposal/report entitled Emergency Habitat: A
Camp for 1600 Refugees Near Khulna, Bangladesh de
scribe the difficulty of working with bamboo in climates 
drier than its natural climate. According to Professor 
Goodspeed, bamboo for the CMU test lab model was 
ordered from Japan with the Process Research Institute 
assuming the materials fee of $400.00. Although the 
Behr-Evangelista report said thatthe dry Pittsburgh air
cracked and longitudinally split the bamboo ship
ment, the unit was built and the properties of bamboo as 
a construction material investigated. Researchers found 
bamboo to be waterproof, heat insulating, durable, 
easy to repair and possessing a high strength to weight 
ratio. Although other designers overlook the useful 
properties of bamboo frame units in tropical areas becasue bamboo beams inserted directly into the soil tend 
to rot, the interdisciplinary team found that bamboo 
inserted into a stabilized soil based will not decompose 
becasue the vinyl monomer stabilizer also acts to pre
serve the bamboo. Bamboo and thatch together provide 
insulation for the unit and are water resistant if given the 
proper chemical treatment. The Emergency Habitat 
report also suggests how preferable these materials are as 
compared to emergency tents usually constructed for 
refugees or to the units now promoted by the United 
States Agency of International Development, which use 
soil cement blocks for the walls and corrugated metal for 
the roofs. These shelters cost approximately $400 each. 
The units to be built in Dacca next month under the 
supervision of Professors Goodspeed and Hartkopf will
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..................................................7:00 P.M. Tech House
SUNDAY MASS..........................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (Rm. 7500)
WEEKDAY MASSES ........................................................................Tech House
(M. T. W  10:00 P.M.) (Th, F  5:00 P.M.) (T, Th.  8:00 A.M.)
Fr. Philip Walsh (621-2911). Fr. Bob English (681-3181)
The Community House is the Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison
sN~S s3STA ASLLmL JmWSSA UNSum3SSTY emNTm3
ICE SKATING PARTY
315 S. Bellefield Avenue - Lobby
Feb. 8 - Saturday - 8:00 P.M.
$2.85 Includes: Transportation. Admission, Skate Rental 
Buy Tickets in the Hillel Office before Feb. 6 or 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS
ISBm;
BAGEL & LOX BRUNCH
Carnegie-Mellon - Skibo Faculty Dining Room 
February 9-11 a.m.
$ 1.00 for food or |ust come for the speaker: 
RUDOLF FELLNER. Prof. of Music 
Topic: JEWS IN OPERA
315 S. smLLLFSmLH ~umNUm (~e3HSS F3HM AmSNZ eA~rmL) 
621n8875
~re You a Son of a s...?
Or An .A,0,AB. If So, We Can Use You In Our Plasma 
Program. Presently we are using many students in Our 
Physician Supervised Plasma Donation.
You Can Help Contribute Plasma Needed For Such 
Products as: Factor 8 for Hemophilia, Gamma Globulin, 
Serum Albumin, Vaccines and Diagnostic Reagents.
For Your Time and Contribution 
You Can Earn $60.00 Per Month. 
Call Us At 682-3190 For Full Details.
Sm3~nTme sSHLHGSe~LS
3407-09 Forbes Ave. 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213
Hours: 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Mon.-Fri.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
February 4, 1975Page 9
Present day disaster relief operations appear to be fragmented and do not build sufficiently 
on previous experience. Various members of many are and many should be involved in relief 
operations. However their tasks are ill-defined, insufficiently coordinated and the personnel are 
partially unaware of the context's complexity. . . as examples: health officials address health 
problems, sanitation engineers address sanitation problems, nutritionists address dietary concerns. 
Solutions to independently posed problems are only partial and assembled do not yield the best 
possible overall result. . .It is increasingly being recognized that satisfactory solutions can only be 
achieved if all disciplines involved are well integrated and aware of their interdepen
dence. 
 Taken from Emergency Habitat: A Camp for 1600 Refugees Near Khulna, 
Bangladesh. 
cost $150 per shelter. Not only is such a price more 
feasible for the average Bengali who receives an average 
per capita yearly income of $60.00, but it is also more 
economical for the Indian government, reducing the cost 
of housing one refugee per year from $ 120 to the $6 per 
year figure now projected with the A-frame shelter. (The 
latter estimate excludes the initial cost of building the 
shelter. It simply gives a maintenance estimate of the 
cost of housing one refugee per year.)
Under adverse environmental conditions, the two 
story A-frame shelter is not only wind resistant, but also 
increases the living space within the shelter. The second 
and higher level of the unit serves as an escape hatch 
when flooding brought on by tidal waves or tropical 
rains occur. Both the second story as well as the foun
dation of stabilized soil ward off the common threat of 
floods uprooting the units.
In Bangladesh, indicated Dr. Goodspeed, the 
government estimates that 95% of rural housing is mere
ly temporary shelter, the other 5 per cent is considered 
permenant. To provide more permanent low cost hous
ing for the Bengals, we suggest that the units that we 
have designed be made more than temporary. Although 
serving an immediate emergency purpose, a few modifi
cations and some additional materials would make the 
units long-term housing. The plan for housing emergency 
victims occurs in three phases, noted Dr. Goodspeed, 
for example, in Phase 1 tents would be available for 
disaster victims, in the second phase the emergency
shelters would be constructed by the refugees them
selves; in the third phase the units could be made perm
enant or they could be dismantled and the materials 
taken by the victims and used to rebuild old dwellings or 
to construct new ones in the sites that they choose. He 
added that these units are more advantageous because 
the refugees build these units and so they consider the 
dwelling special to them. In the past the government 
would build emergency dwellings very near to villages 
and to the personal homes of the potential disaster 
victims. When a natural calamity finally occurred, the
Results of a survey of experts in the field and govern
ment officials in affected areas show that:
1)Natives will construct buildings if given adequate food 
as an impetus to work.
2)Units should be large enough to get administrative 
personnel in for inspection.
3)Average unit should have 60 people in it for shelter 
purposes: no more than this.
4)Locally available materials are best for construction 
since natives have experience with these 
materials.
people did not want to leave their personal property and 
possessions until conditions were almost the worst 
possible. For this reason the governments sites for emer
gency dwellings were not adequate, and didn't provide
sN~S s3STA ASLLmL JmWSSA UNSum3SSTY emNTm3 
ISRAEL WEEK 1975 
at CMU
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 11 SKIBO LOBBY AND BALLROOM
10 a.m.-3 p.m. Information Booth
10 a.m.-3 p.m. Kibbutz Exhibit 
11:30 -2p.m. Felafel Stand
1 p.m. An Afternoon with Gabriel Zifroni
The following in Skibo Room 45:
2:30 p.m. Israel with Slides
3:00 p.m. Movie: "I Love You, Rosa'
7:30 p.m. Movie: "The Siege"
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH  STUDENT UNION
February 10, 11, 12, 13 -- 10 a.m. to 9p.m.
Opening Night Monday, February 10 8 p.m.
"MEET THE PRESS PROGRAM"
THE HONORABLE EMANUEL SHIMONI, Consul-General of Israel
Pitt Student Union - Venitian Room
GRAND FINALE ENTERTAINMENT mumNSNG - Thursday , February S 3 at 8:3o p.m
with Gitia Ronen & Tuval
at the Jewish Community Center Auditorium
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
6218875
Native involved in the making of an emer
gency housing unit in Guatemala. Photo 
courtesy of Volker Hartkopf.
people with the incentive to leave their personal homes 
during an emergency situation. Our emergency shelter 
revolves around the concept of treating or helping 
people in the manner in which they would like to be 
treated or helped. He stated that after such a situation, 
nothing remains of the refugee camp; the units are either 
made permenant or dissembled and taken wasy with 
those migrating home. Glen Rossi, a graduate engineer
ing student, stressed the recycliability of the shelter 
and stated that another research team working on the 
temporary relief housing problem had introduced a pre
fabricated dome-like structure but the natives had re
jected it as a religious taboo.
Another conceptual innovation relating to the shelter 
is the self-help aspect with the natives made responsible 
for the construction. The blueprints for the unit have 
been translated into a step-by-step photograph manual 
for their use. Dr. Goodspeed made it clear that he and 
Professor Hartkopf would supervise the construction 
project in Bangladesh employing this manual to direct 
natives in construction. Dr. Goodspeed acknowledged 
the assistance given the CMU interdisciplinary team by 
Dr. V.J. Singh, a sociologist at the University of Pitts
burgh. Dr. Singh, a member of the Bangladesh organ
ization to donate the land for the test construction, will 
aslo monitor the responses of the natives to the dwelling 
six months after the initial construction.
sN~S s3STA ASLLmL 
JmWSSA UNSum3SSTY emNTm3
Announces
WINTER LUNCH 
AND 
LECTURE SERIES 
At the University of Pittsburgh
February 6 PROFESSOR DONALD M. 
GOLDSTEIN 
"Arab-lsraeli Conflict: A Different 
Approach"
February 13 PROFESSOR GABRIEL ZIFRONI 
"The Role of Politics in the Theater" 
February 20 PROFESSOR RICHARD GALE 
"Might There Be Nothing Rather Than
Something?"
THURSDAYS AT NOON 
Hillel Library, 3rd Floor,
315 S. Bellefield Avenue 
(Lunch, $1.15 is optional.
Speaker begins at 12:20 p.m.)
~ll Graduate and Undergraduate Students and Faculty Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

BRAVO!
photo by Elliot Popowitz
The agile grace of 
Paul Draper's dance.
Pige 10  February 4, 1975 ______
TRAPEZE
Photo by Larry Denburg

---------------------------------------------------

\ February 4, 1975Page 11
TRAPEZE
Are 
you limiting 
yourself?
Come to this 
Christian Science Lecture
A short fiction by Gregory McKenna
Mitch told me to stop over on Saturday night if I had 
a chance. How late? I asked him.
Oh, anytime, he said. Ill be up late watching 
Tri-Horror Theatre, the original Dracula is going to be 
on.
So, after eating pizza with Marie and kissing her 
goodnight for a while, I strolled on over to Mitchs 
apartment. No one answered my knock but the door was 
unlocked, I walked right in. Mitch was asleep on the 
couch, huddled under his tattered blue quilt; Static and 
dull light from the TV told me that it was after three 
AM, thats when all of the local stations go off the air. I 
shut off the TV and turned to leave.
The phone rang just as I was going out. I answered it.
f------------------~i
Hello. It was a womans voice, soft and cool. Who is 
this? it asked.
This is Mitch Beaumans apartment, I said. Hes 
sleeping on the couch so I answered the phone.
Oh, I see, said the voice. Whats your name? 
Andy, I said. Do you want to ... 
Oh, Im so sorry Andy, she said. I guess I got the 
wrong number... There was a brief silence. Ive 
never gotten a wrong number before, she said. I dont 
know what to say ...  There was another moment of 
non-talking. I could hear her breathing heavily into the 
receiver. I pictured her lying on the floor, talking to me 
with her eyes closed.
My name is Terry, she said. Where are you?
Im in my friends apartment, hes asleep so I have
Wishing you were there
to talk softly, I said. He lives in Highland Park. Where 
are you at? I asked, exploring the intimacy.
Im in my room, all alone, she said sadly. I was 
watching TV but its off the air now. I cant go to sleep. 
Im so lonely.
Oh, I said. Do you live alone?
Yessss, she replied. There was another intermission 
of silence. I could hear her breathing, it sounded like she 
had asthma. I could hear her body moving around, there 
were occasional thumps in the background, and she 
jgrunted as though it were an effort to get comfortable.
I wish you were here, she said, deepening her voice. 
I had no response. She added, Maybe its better that 
youre, not really here.
Yeah, maybe youre right, I said.
Why do you say that? she asked. Why do you 
think its better that youre not here?
Well, I, ummmm, I was just agreeing with you, I 
managed to say. I was just saying that, whatever your 
reasons for feeling that way, Id respect them ... .
Oh, she said. Her breath sounded hot over the 
phone. How tall are you?
 Six feet two inches, I said.
... and how much do you weigh? she asked 
passionately.
 ... one hundred and sixty pounds ...
 ... what color eyes and hair do you have?
Blue eyes and blonde hair, I said.
You sound really nice, she cooed over the phone. 
I really do wish you were here. Then, after making
noises that sounded like she was changing positions 
again, she said, What would you do if you were here? 
Ummmmm, I dont know exactly, I said.
Would you like to be here?
 Yeah, I guess so.
I know whatld do if you were here with me. 
What? I asked.
Id take off all of your clothes. For a mement there 
was just breathing over the phone. Would you like 
that? she asked.
Yes, I said, Id like that very much.
If you were here, what would you do to me? she 
asked. Would you touch me here? she said. Would 
you spread my legs and ...
Yeah, I guess so, I guess thats where Id start, I 
said.
Then what would you do? she asked, sighing 
heavily.
Well, then ... then Id whip you.
There was another intermission. I could still hear her 
breathing into the phone.
You know, she said reproachfully, I think youre 
a pervert! She hung up.
Mitch was sitting up on the couch, I guessed he had 
been listening for a while. Who the hell were you talking 
to? he asked, laughing.
I dont know, I said. It was some girl making an 
obscene phone call. I think her name was Terry.
Oh, Terry, he said yawning. She calls here about 
once a month.
"GROW WE MUST
HARVEY W. WOOD,
C.S.B. Evanston, Illinois 
eA3SSTS~N SeSmNem sH~3D 
of LmeTU3mSASr
8:15 P.M.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 4. 1975
Winchester-Thurston School 
Auditorium 
555 Morewood Avenue, 
Oakland
GREEKHEATER: ANCIENT AND MODERN
TAKIS MOUZANIDAS Founder and Director of the First Creek School for Musical Theater
8:00 PM SLibo Ballroom
l'0H<0rcd bu rnyjtn :'LinninThursday, Feb. 6

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
Page 12February 4, 1975
SPewe
A Sense of Humor
by John Mangano
Back in the golden years, before students had 
National Lampoon, Mad and The Pittsburgh Press to 
satisfy their diverse tastes in humor, Carnegie Tech had 
its own magazine that supplied kampus kut-ups with 
enough new material to score at any mixer or Skibo 
lunchtable.
In September of 1914 the TARTAN announced plans 
for a publication that would highlight student art, 
poetry and humor in a tasteful, seven-color magazine 
format. Deciding not to restrict itself in appeal. The 
Puppet would be sold at the newsstands of Pittsburgh 
hotels, by the Union News Co., and on all trains pulling 
out of the city so that the world might know who was 
being seen with whom in Science Hall, or why Tech was 
known for its engineers and not for its poets:
If I had kissed thee 
That thy lips were red 
Then I had said:
Lo, I can paint the lilies that they shame the peony. 
The Puppet was actually a low-budget version of the 
old Life humor magazine. It was published monthly at 
ten cents the copy and its one blessing was its John 
Held-like drawings of Flappers and Lounge Lizards, for 
over the decades, its jokes seem to have lost their once 
fruity import.
HE: May I kiss you before I go?
SHE: Have you a cold?
HE: No
SHE: Or the grippe?
HE: No.
SHE: Have you a sanitory gauze with you?
HE: Surely.
SHE: WellI suppose there must be passionbut 
dont muss my hair.
Yet, The Puppet endured for twenty-three years. In 
1937 it became The Scot tie, but until that time it 
featured such useful articles as How to start a flivver 
without cranking it, and full-page ads for Arrow Collars 
and Vanity Fair. A monthly column called Around the 
Town highlighted such hot spots as the Continental
Jack, I've oh 
awfully _ importmt askj/ouJ.1m sorry I cajrtL 5\ay any longer 
Kilty, hvX 1 promised. 
I cl meet the, TxitkTu 
Tht tfe, Sck&iJe^i
Room of the Hotel Schenley, Woodlawn Pharmacy and 
the Skibo Inn (Dont forget the nickleodeon, where 
you can prep on Tommy Dorsey numbers for Spring 
Carnival.).
As the Great Depression fell on the already sunken 
Pittsburgh, The Puppet cheered the populace:
TED (in a soda parlor): Say, why doncha use the 
other straw?
NED: What for? I aint emptied this one yet.
And it proved that every day were getting better and 
better, by providing its own One Hundred Neediest 
Cases at Christmas, 1936 (We here at Tech are realists. 
We know that for every 100 graduates who become 
famous, one will starve.). Case number one featured a 
Drama Grad who was stranded with a road show in 
Kankakee, 111., where his credit was no good because the 
natives distrusted his stage diction.
One year later The Puppet insulted dog lovers every
where by changing its name to The Scottie. Puppet's 
Greek Gossip Column became Fleas on You and 
Around the Town became Off the Leash by Joe 
Tree. The jokes didnt change, though:
PROFESSOR: Are you cheating on this exam?
STUDENT: No, sir. I was only telling him that his 
nose was dripping on my paper.
But a new element was introduced: The Photo Essay, 
which would soon pioneer in unveilings rivalled only by 
the yet unborn Playboy. But in 1938 all they featured 
were the butts of freshmen males, as Scottie presented 
The Right Way to Swing the Fanny Warmer.
"Ask anyone in the Class of 7947 
lor the major event of the year, 
and hell by-pass Pearl Harbor for 
Pearl Young,
Scottie's La Conga Girl."
After eight issues of such whimsy, women began to 
appear: Homecoming Queen nominees, Ice Queen nom
inees, and The Dream Girl of The Junior Prom. Vol
ume II introduced The Girl of the Month, usually clad 
in a tight-fitting sorority sweater, poised on the front 
steps of the old Skibo. Accompanying the photo were 
vital facts concerning the voluptuary, a list like those 
found on Miss Subway placards and old high school 
yearbooks (Has green eyes and brown hair . .. lovely to 
gaze upon . . . will weigh 112 lbs in two weeks . .. 
delightful to hold ... temptingly tight .. . likes Debussy 
and Glenn Miller . .. Noted for her meticulously kept 
dresser drawers . . . ).
The cheesecake photos compensated for the poor 
artwork (Puppet cartoons soon began to reappear) and 
The Scottie was glutted with gossip, which may someday 
be of interest to sociologists (Dave Gill asked Pinky 
Weekly to go steady, but she couldnt see it.).
Ask anyone in the class of 1941 for the major event 
of the year, and hell bypass Pearl Harbor for Pearl 
Young, The Scotties LaConga Girl and subject of the

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1975Page 13
ter Chatter. But suddenly, in a miniscule editorial that 
ran alongside The Girl of the Month, the editors made 
public their long-running battle with the censors, and in 
the next issue (bragging a cover resplendant with funeral 
wreaths) the editorial board announced their collective 
resignation. There is a definite, yea dire, need for a 
humor magazine, stated a letter to the readers. How
ever, this magazine has ceased to function as a medium 
of experimentation and light expression. The last page 
was empty, save for a dead Scottie, his paws out
stretched in rigor mortis.
The Scot followed quickly upon the paws of its 
predecessor, making its first appearance in the fall of 
1949. Although different in size and format (A Readers 
Digest size, specializing in short fiction and sports pictor
ials) certain characteristics of its ancestors remained:
CO-ED: Mother, will college girls go to heaven?
MOTHER: Yes, but they wont like it.
The highlight of Scot's premiere issue was undoubt
edly the series Life with Father, in which Bill Warner, 
son of Carnegie Techs president told all about his cele
brated dad. One of my fathers most striking character
istics, wrote fink Warner, is a minor bulge on the front 
and middle of a shortish body. This of course leads into 
an article about how dad loved eating to excess, and the 
dinner table arguments that were the result of this nasty 
habit.
In spite of such lapses of taste, The Scot was rather 
sophisticated, but could not make up its mind whether it 
was a literary magazine or a joke book. In 1955 it 
became The Great Scot and found that there were 
plenty of well-endowed freshman dramats who were not 
loathe to posing in beach towels and wooly blankets. 
Capitolizing on this influx of resources, the magazine 
began its series of yearly pin-up calendars for the years 
1956-60, with a different beauty posing accordingly for 
each month of the year. In December of 1958 The Great 
Scot consisted of little else but a giant calendar of 
women and scattered jokes. Barring a few issues where 
the editors took a crack at satire by aping the format of 
popular magazines (Good Housebreaking, TIMEly) The 
Great Scot was little more than a raunchy pulp that 
satisfied horny plebes in the pre-Playboy era. Still, Scot 
found time to rib the macho image many mags of its ilk 
took seriously:
Detective Story
I reached out and slapped her twice across her 
mouth, and then broke her arm and knocked her down 
before she could shout a warning.
 Carlsons? I asked.
 No, she said. They live two doors down.
magazines first three-page foldout. Ms. Young was 
shown in the various positions necessary if one wishes to 
master the Conga. In the same issue, group shots of 
every sorority were accompanied by each members 
name, telephone number, pet peeve (fickle people ... 
jitterbugs .. . poor dancers . . . Robert Taylor), favorite 
hangout and pet like (Hayrides... JuJuBees ... Queer 
people .. . potato chips ... information censored).
As for the war effort, The Scottie did little more than 
run ads of Joan Bennett in her Voluntary Service uni
form, smoking ChesterfieldsHis cigarette and Mine. 
Although many Tech men had left for active service, the 
editorial board was dominated by chauvinists who de
lighted in running such pictorials as The Art of Kis
sing. The Scottie's sense of humor remained consistent:
OLD LADY: Little boy, I wouldnt kick my sister 
around the street like that.
LITTLE BOY: Oh, thats all right. Shes dead.
In the post-war years, The Scottie concentrated on 
the important issues of campus life in such columns as 
Vital Statistics (Who pinned whom and where) and Plat
Dammit, Goldberg, dont they feed you over here
at Pitt?
I walked down the street two houses and turned in 
the walk with the firm light tread of a prowling panther. 
The mailbox read Carlson as had the neon sign on the 
front lawn. I looked at the card under the knocker. It 
said Carlson too. I beat savagely on the door. A butler 
answered.
 Carlsons? I asked.
He mashed my teeth with a hard right, broke three 
ribs with a left, and kicked me as I fell. I screamed in 
tearing agony as he kicked me in the hip flask. He shot 
me twice in the guts and closed the door. I sat up and lit 
a cigarette ...
In the late fifties, the beat generation took its toll in 
editorial content* and The Great Scot found itself 
tom between satisfying the Frat Man and the Fine Arts 
Major. And as the age of the sophisticated college stu
dent swept down upon the campus, a 47 year-old in
stitution was obliterated by the fact that people just 
didnt have the strength to lau^i anymore.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-February 4,1975
Present and future
Post Office Blues
by David Russos
The average student going to school 
anywhere away from home has a few 
things that are looked forward to with an
xious anticipation. One of the few is mail.
The United States Post Office Depart
ment came into existence with Benjamin 
Franklin as the first Postmaster General. In 
those days, the Post Office first class mail 
rates were one cent and the letters were 
classed by the number of sheets they had 
(the more sheets, the more the cost to 
mail) as opposed to weight.
Eventually, the classification system was 
hanged and the rate increased to try to 
pay off a growing deficit that was hardly 
slowed down by the attempt. In the life
time of any 18 year-old the price of a first 
class stamp has increased threefold. The 
annual report of the Postmaster General 
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1950, 
cited the accentuation of the need for 
revision of the postal rate structure.
In 1971, Congress took the Post Office 
and changed it into a hopefully more suc
cessful business operation called the United 
States Postal Service (USPS). Instead of 
getting better, things have gotten worse. 
Surface mail travels faster than air mail and 
special delivery is treated like first class. 
The deficit is still growing (2.2 billion dol
lars in 1974) and so will the rates, with the 
USPS filing for an increase in March 1975, 
only one year after the last increase, to 
twelve or thirteen cents. The chairman of 
the House Post Office and Civil Service 
Committee predicts a 25-cent stamp in
1980 and because of all this, the USPS has 
many a disgruntled customer.
Many of these highly critical individuals 
are Carnegie-Mellon University students 
living on campus. Resident students have 
their mail go from the Post Office in Oak
land to More wood and Donner Hall via the 
CMU Post Office in Baker Hall where it is 
sorted. Many complaints by students are 
brought to CMU postal personnel who are, 
as they put it, understaffed and under
paid. According to the Post Office, few of 
these complaints are justified.
Criticism as to punctuality and loss of 
mail are probably most common. The 
USPS points out that it delivers about one 
half of its current volume of 90 billion 
pieces of mail between major cities up to 
600 miles away. Of this mail, 95 per cent is 
delivered overnight, with 91 per cent 
carried over 600 miles delivered by the 
second day. The CMU Post Office also 
boasts of quick delivery, claiming to get 
the mail sorted and delivered as soon as it 
gets here. With regard to lost mail, the Post 
Office claims that, with extremely few ex
ceptions, mail claimed by the student to be 
lost was actually never mailed.
Students with cFiticism^of mail delivery 
should complain to the source of the prob
lem. The CMU postal personnel are but a 
minute fraction of the people who handle 
the mail, and most likely, the most careful 
of alL All they can really do, though, is 
listen to the problems and hope that crit
icism will reach someone who has the 
power to do more than just lend an ear.
PREPARE FOR:Me~T D~T LS~T G3m ~TGSs He~T
r
eFMG N~T! MmD sUS
Pittsburgh Brunch:
 681-9735
Over 35 years 
of experience 
and success 

Small classes
Voluminous heme 
study materials
Courses that are 
constantly updated
Make ups for 
missed lessons
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1936
1323 MURDOCK ROAD 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15217
Branches n Md* u S C#tesA
Helen O'Bannon
Coments on
Women
Helen OBannon, Assistant Dean of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology is one of the highest ranking female 
administrators at CMU. When asked how she feels she is 
veiwed by her colleagues, she honestly states, I fee 
accepted and respected by them, both of which are 
necessary if either I or them are to accomplish any
thing.
She did, however, have some very provocative obser
vations about the women students in the college. 
Though she was excited about the number of women at 
the undergraduate level, she expressed a disappointment 
also. There are academically outstanding women here, 
more outstanding than one would expect, but these 
women havent coalated into a group that questions 
their identities. She seems to worry that these women, 
being geared toward professional full-time careers, will 
face psychological enigmas when they have to decide 
between full-time employment or full-time marriage; 
whether they will be able to respond to these kinds of 
pressures in several years. There are, however, things that 
they could be doing here, at their undergrad level, to 
implement these decisions. One of these she brought up 
was the Womens Collective here at CMU. But the 
women in this College seem not to need it, not to want 
it, or not to know that they need it.
She went on to say that the women who had chosen 
to come to CMU in Engineering were, in making the 
choice, acknowledging the competition before them, and 
admitted to themselves that they were academically and 
scholastically competent. Therefore, there are fewer 
women in the B-C grade range than in the A-B range. She 
feels this is significant within the College. But she is also 
very concerned about their social endeavors. She feels as 
though they spend far more time studying than is adviseable for women of their ages. It would be somewhat 
wiser, she says, if they took advantage of the extra
curricular opportunities offered to them within the Car
negie-Mellon community.
When asked what opportunities specifically she was 
referring to, she mentioned lectures, films, forums, open 
classes in the other colleges, etc. She, as a person, feels 
that CMU offers more than enough activities in which to 
dabble. And as she says, I try to keep involved in things 
that will build up the well-roundedness of the Univer
sitys resources. We want good students, and we are 
concerned when we feel that other elements in the 
University arent in tune with us.
R-U TIRED 
OF 
POOR SERVICE??
We service all makes 
Try Pittsburgh's Newest, Most 
Modern, Service Dept.ALL
NEGLEY KAWASAKI 
5101 Baum Boulevard 682-1205 
P. S. We seil new Kawasakis Too

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1975 - Page 15
I
% HAD HE#D TW !5TuD03/|KEf WeI 
i,viU To *1?tC6 V 
WfTH TH5 uwtjg 
-gyrtfit
ieiDicuuus%
If IE HcrSCAF i 
If/\p5TAft5010^:
>i^Mi)\)3e cm
yiwCo   o
DianaDe
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
GLASS SYMPOSIUM
TOM KEKICFEB. 6 FEB. 7
10-12 am Glass-Artistic Medium 10-12 am Artistic, Technical Glass 
Wherret Room Wherret Room
2-4 pm Demonstration 2-4 pm Demonstration
Doherty Hall Sub-Basement Doherty Hall Sub-Basement
JACK SCHMIDT 
FRITZ DREISBACH
SPONSORED BY CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
AND THE PROGRAMMING FUNDHENRY HALEM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTANFebruary 4, 1975
RAPE: HOW TO DEAL WITH IT
Many women choose not to prosecute 
their attackers because of a lack of 
evidence, or out of a sense of anxiety that 
their private lives might become a topic for 
discussion in the courtroom ^ during the 
course of the trial. At the present, a pri
mary source of defense for the accused 
rapist is the revelation of a womans past 
sexual history, while it is prohibited that a 
convicted rapists past record be brought up 
during the trial, as he is considered in
nocent of the crime in question until he 
can be proven guilty, regardless of his past. 
The detective for the county police point
ed out, When a woman files rape charges, 
she is putting her reputation on the line. 
But I believe her history should be irrel
evant, and I forsee change within the next 
few years.
Bruce Dice commented, If I ask a 
woman, Are you a virgin? its my perogative because I have to know in order to do 
my job efficiently. The term rape: people 
use it so freely, and it just doesnt always 
happen like women say it has.
In the state of Pennsylvania, a convicted 
rapist receives no psychiatric treatment, 
and the possibility of his committing an
other rape is very high. Only those men 
thought emotionally disturbed when arrest
ed are considered for therapy. In general, 
they are considered to be in possession of 
sound mind and body.
In the aftermath of a rape, the victim is 
often left feeling helpless and devastated, 
reagrdless of whether or not she enjoys the 
comfort of family and friends. Her initial 
response is likely to be one of anger and 
anxiety, during which time she desired 
treatment, and revenge on her assailant. 
The second stage, which occurs after the 
shock of the attack has worn off, is one of 
denial in which she might like to forget 
about the incident. During this time she is 
likely to want to drop any criminal pro
ceedings against the accused. This stage is 
followed by another of extreme anger that 
might lead the victim to regret having drop
ped the proceedings. In most cases, the 
panel agreed that it is helpful to encourage 
the victim to bring charges agains the 
rapist, since she may later feel remorse 
about not having done so.
Aspects of the crime of rape were 
recently dealt with in a panel discussion 
held in the Wherrett Room on January 28. 
Members of the panel included a female 
investigaor on the rape squad of the Alle
gheny County Police, a detective working 
in cooperation with the Rape Squad, the 
project director of a study on sex offense 
from Western Psychiatric Institute and 
Assistant District Attorney, Bruce Dice.
To begin the discussion, questions were 
called for from persons in the audience, the 
first question being; If a woman is con
fronted by an assailant should she give in 
to the attack? Each member of the panel 
agreed that very little advice could be given 
to the prospective victim, since the circum
stances surrounding individual attacks dif
fer greatly. A woman expecting to fend off 
her attacker with a show of resistance 
might indeed put her life in danger if the 
assailant is armed.
However, the panelists also agreed that a 
woman has a fa* greater chance of success
fully prosecuting the accused in court if 
there exists evidence of some type of 
struggle: bleeding, ripping or tearing of the 
womans vagina, hairs from the attackers 
head or pubic area or a scrap of his cloth
ing. Without it, the question of rape is left 
unsubstantiated and the job of prosecution
becomes more difficult. Im not making 
any recommendations, commented the
assistant D.A., since the question of con
sent is a primary one. But if there is no 
struggle my job is a lot harder.
If a woman is planning to prosecute, it 
is extremely important that she proceed to 
a hospital soon after the attack, where 
evidence can be taken before she bathes 
and washes it away. It is no longer true 
that an officer is requred to be present at 
the examination, nor that a woman will be 
forced to press charges if she chooses not 
to do so.
A rape crisis center has recently been 
organized in the Pittsburgh suburb of 
McKeesport, where victims are given phys
ical and emotional comfort and aid in the 
aftermath of an attack. The planning of a 
centrally located rape clinic for the city of 
Pittsburgh is currently underway at Mercy 
Hospital.
THERUNNINGSTART
Get your career moving fast with the Pomona 
Division of General Dynamics. The first 5 years of your 
career are critical, and could shape your future as an 
engineer. Thats why its important for you to be sure 
of your opportunities with your first employer.
Our new long-range programs have created unusual 
career positions both in engineering and manufacturing. 
Particularly for electronic and mechanical engineers. 
As the nations leading developer of tactical missiles 
and armament, were working at the leading edge of 
state-of-the-art technology using the most sophisticated 
equipment available. With it, and us, youll have every 
tool you need to determine your own potential.
You'll also be working in one of the most delightful 
areas of southern California with top people in virtually 
every discipline. Youll get a fair chance because that means success.
For both of us.
Our representative will be visiting your campus soon. For an interview appointment 
contact your placement officer, or write to Mr. Al Sack, mail zone 4C-15, P.O. Box 2507, 
Pomona, CA 91766.
For information about other careers in General GENERAL DYNAMICS
Dynamics write to: Mr. Lou Whitney, General Dynamics --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Corporation, Pierre Laclede Center, St. Louis, Missouri 63105. Pomona Division
~n mqual Hpportunity mmployer, M/F. U.S. eitizenship 3equired

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975-Page 17Marijuana Highlighted
by Adrian Manson
I its only the most blatant kind of 
stupidity that gets me into predicaments 
like this. Every cell in my body should
P have been on the alert when the TARTAN 
news editor came slinking up to my door 
late Sunday night; but I had been reading 
Statistics in my customary manner, reward
ing myself with a shot of Gin for every 
page completed. I just finished page seven
teen as he stood there raving about how 
the newspaper business is. Yeah, I sure 
sympathize with you buddy, I said. Im 
watching his face go in and out of focus as 
he talks. What are you doing tomorrow at 
12:30 he wants to know, why dont I just 
stop by Skibo and go to this Marijuana 
lecture and write a teeny little article about 
it, O.K.? Well, being a fan of Brenda Starrs 
from way back, and out of my mind on the 
deadly combination of Statistics and Gin, I 
agreed.
I The next morning, realization of what I 
had done struck me like a hit of bad crank. 
1 searched and old TARTAN to see if I
could find any hint of what Id gotten 
myself into. I found it in the classifieds.'
The ad starts: TWO DAYS OF MAR 
IJUANA IN THE WHERRETT ROOM? 
Jesus, big deal; once, an opium addict and I 
each ate a quarter of an ounce in a Tartan* 
burger, and sat in on a marathon Tartan 
Grill poker game for three days! The ad 
says that the first lecture is: Marijuana, 
what does it do to you? featuring Dr. 
Lewis Harris from the University of Vir
ginia. Great, I picture myself sitting among 
a righteous half-dozen who nod their heads 
and listen intently as the speaker tells us 
why Marijuana makes hippies sterile.
Theres no accounting for some people. 
The Wherrett room was packed by 12:30, 
the crowd including many hard-core dopers 
in fact. The real surprise of the day was Dr. 
Harris though. He looks like a happy little 
Brooklyn tailor; I took an immediate liking 
to him. His interest in dope was not moral 
at all, strictly scientific, more or less, and 
historical. In ancient China, he begins, this 
drug, which they called the Liberator of 
Sin, was reported to make people giggle, 
lose coordination and eventually fall 
asleep. Things havent changed much; but 
imagine how different the world might be 
if weed had become completely accepted 
in China. I recently read that if every per
son in China jumped two feet in the air
ENGINEERYOURWAJfTOTHETOB
Sf youre an outstanding engineering graduate 
like Will Frick, or someone who can master advanced 
technology, you may qualify 
for one of our top programs.
Nuclear engineering.
Were looking for men 
who have a solid foundation 
in math and physics. Men 
with superior ability. Men 
who want to work the energy 
of the future.
Sf thats you, look into 
our Nuclear rropulsion 
Hfficer eandidate rrogramNUrHe.
Youll spend a year learning the many details of 
nuclear propulsion plant theory and operation.
These details will enhance your ability to solve diffi
cult problems through application of fundamental 
engineering principles.
Set your sights high. Go Navy.
Be someone special. Join the Nuclear Navy.
For more information on how to take off, 
call the Officer Information Team in 
Pittsburgh, 644-5889/97
Will Krick, Ursinus 69 
-USS Truxton 72
simultaneously, the shock wave wouia sena 
California sliding into the ocean. Just think 
of the force that would result if 800 mil
lion people got high at once, and began 
giggling and bumping into each other; the 
East coast would probably*sink too.
Dr. Harris said that in India, to achieve 
the ultimate Marijuana experience, the Raj 
would send girls from his harem out to 
walk among the plants and gather the 
resins on their bodies; which he would sub
sequent lick off. A murmur of approval 
rippled through the crowd.
The basic drift of the lecture was that 
Marijuana had some unique effects on the 
human body, and may be of some theraputic value. The thing about the lecture 
that really impressed me was that, well, 
heres a scholarly type research scientist 
saying that Marijuana has been smoked for 
thousands of years, and theres nothing 
really wrong with it in moderate doses. An 
identical conclusion he says, was reached 
by a council appointed by Richard Nixon 
to study the Marijuana problem in the late 
sixties. Hearing the opinions of people who 
have studied the effects of Marijuana are so 
favorable, I left the first part of the sym
posium optimistic about the future of Mar
ijuana.
This bit of optimism was quickly dispel
led two days later when I attended the 
second program, Marijuana, is it only an 
Illegal Activity? Three experts, assistant 
D.A. Joe Vogun, Common Pleas Court 
Judge Robert Daver and police officer 
Dave McNutt came together to entirely 
evade the issue. All they basically had to
say was that yes, as far as the law is con
cerned, Marijuana is only an illegal activity.
Assistant D.A. Vogun explanied that it 
was the big sellers, those out there for the 
personal profit that he wanted to see in 
jail. I dont quite understand his rationale; 
if he wants to rid the streets of greedy 
profit seekers he should start rounding up 
some of the local landlords. Officer 
McNutt said that it is his job to arrest 
anyone breaking the law; and proved how 
seriously he takes his job by relating stories 
of how he has arrested people on the street 
for possession of a roach, or several grams 
of Marijuana Judge Daver explained that he 
could only do his job, and uphold the law. 
He could not condone the use of Marijuana 
because he says that it can be harmful and 
lead to other drug?.
The program left me rather depressed, 
these three men arrest, prosecute and sen
tence Marijuana offenders as part of their 
ordinary routine without much idea of 
what Marijuana really is, other than an 
illegal drug. Someone asked the judge why 
Marijuana is illegal. The reply was simply 
that it had been made so by the State 
legislature; and when enough people de
mand it, the law will be changed. The po
tential for change then, is in the hands of 
the masses of people who know little or 
nothing about the drug, except that if it is 
illegal, it must be bad. These are the people 
who prevent the legalization of Marijuana.
Illegal or not, Marijuana is here to stay. 
Its not even cool or exciting anymore, its 
just herethats all.
Three Rivers Computer Corp.
which sells a computer terminal named the 
Graphic Design Processor, a pair of devices 
called 16 Bit Analog to Digital and Digital 
to Analog converters, and several pieces of 
smaller equipment.
The Graphics Processor generates and 
displays visual information in the form of 
letters, numbers, and line drawings on a 
television type terminal. Employing the 
processor at CMU are Dr. Nelson Max, who 
has used it to generate pictures for his films 
on space filling curves in mathematics, and 
Dr. Charles Eastman, who illustrates con
cepts of living space usage in architecture.
The machines major selling points are 
its ability to display more complex images 
with less flickering than other displays, and 
its capacity to show 50,000 small line 
segments on the screen at one time. Includ
ing options, the price of the processor can 
reach up to $30 000 or more.
The Digital to Analog and Analog to 
Digital Converters take signals generated by 
computers and convert them to a form 
suitable for listening on a stereo system, 
and then convert them back to 
computer-compatible signals. These devices 
have a large dynamic range suitable to the 
reproduction of orchestral instruments. In 
one instance they have been used to make
computer-generated music.
The small amount of resources available 
to Three Rivers precludes any major 
research effort similar to the one that 
originally developed the Graphic Design 
Processor, but small improvements can be 
made to accommodate customer specifica
tions.
Financed by capital advanced by its si> 
members, Three Rivers Computer Corpor
ation is separate from any CMU depart
ment. The basements of the members 
private homes serve as the corporations 
physical facilities, a small computer being 
housed in one home, business records in 
another, and parts and supplies in yet
another. Yet CMU receives an inherent
benefit by merely existing in close contact 
with the corporation, according to Mr. 
Teter. Three Rivers original designs are 
available to CMU free of charge. These 
designs include a larger memory for the 
Graphics Design Processor, and a faster 
addition to the computer memory circuit. 
But perhaps the largest benefit to the
Department of Computer Science is the 
transfer of technology from the lab to the 
commercial environment, allowing the 
government funded research to be of use to 
many more people.
149
WEINER WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLDlU
Check our competitive prices on all 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS MODELS
TEXAS INSTRUMENT so
95
CHECK
WEINER'S
PRICE*11997
rASLSr S. WmSNm3
229 ATWOOD ST. - OAKLAND 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
(412) 683-0313

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975
Photo Courtesy of TIME MAGAZINE,Erica Jong
Since Isadoras very cynical sex-talk is 
outweighted by her weeping and inde
cision, she is easy to handleshe is mereh* 
a modernized version of the familiar frail 
second sex. Jong thus repeats all the hack
neyed views on women: they make a fuss 
are wishy-washy, and need men to support 
them. Only a male critic could think that 
Isadoras obsession with slam-bang sex re
veals the very core of a woman, as the 
dust-jacket brags.
f
The men in the novel, too, are carica
tures. Isadoras lovers may be just as ornery 
and stupid as she claims, but if all we see' j 
them do is brood or pull the legs off
spiders, we are prone to suspect she is 
missing something. Isadora isnt a sympa
thetic or interesting enough character four, 
us to accept such a flat supporting cast. j
Jong has acknowledged that Isadora is 
largely autobiographical. Isadora may be 
Jong verbatim, but that doesnt make her
convincing; for all the heroines selfindulgent confession, we still dont feel as 
if we know her. Such a version of enter
tainment is similar to Isadoras ideal of a 
zipless fuck, the faceless man on the1' 
train who absorbs your attention for a 
while: the novel, like Isadoras affairs, is 
too superficial to be fascinating for long.
We dont need feminist manifestoes in 
fiction as badly as we need novels by 
women that can be discussed as novels. 
Jong is considered trailblazing merely for 
discussing a woman intimately. But Jong is 
too conscious of breaking the rules-<! 
talking about tabooed subjects like 
Tampaxto give us a serious, insightful 
novel.
by Lisa Zeidner
The Exorcist has faded as party 
ammunition, and now we have Erica Jongs 
Fear of Flying. While no one pretended 
that The Exorcist was profound on re
ligion, Fear of Flying is praised as a fem
inist novel with a new, frank spirit. But 
Jongs views on women are cliched and 
convenitonal. She works at seeming bold 
and daring, not at crafting a careful, prob
ing novel.
Heroine Isadora Wing, neurotic Jewish 
poet, leaves her psychiatrist husband at a 
Vienna convention to run off on a drunken 
cruise with another psychiatrist. Not much 
of a plotIsadora says it bores even my
self. So she fattens it up with remin
iscences about family and old lovers, and 
offers opinions on everything rom mar
riage to diets.
Growing up female in America, Isa
dora says, is a liability ... with your ears 
full of cosmetic ads, love songs, advice col
umns, whoreoscopes, Hollywood gossip, 
and moral dilemmas on the level of TV 
soap operas. Marriage is tricky because 
you confuse dependency with love. Isa
dora calls such chatter a good game. At 
heart, she is even less sophisticated: sec
retly ... I want to submit to some big 
brute. Isadoras adventure in Fear of Fly
ing supposedly teaches her strength and 
independence, yet it is hard to believe her 
when she talks like a romantic teenager.
The only strength Isadora displays is a 
gift for snappy, glib comebacks (Show me 
a woman who doesnt feel guilty and Ill 
show you a man; Your morals are like 
roads through the Alps. They make hairpin 
turns all the time.).
That Isadoras level of consciousness
HAROLD CORSINI
Slide Presentation
FEAR OF FLYING
~llafl Meltzer, GSS~ discuss Robert Heilbroners booh
reter Stearns, Aistory
Tuesday, February 11 
7:3o pm Wherrett 3oom
never rises above such slogan-throwing is a 
serious drawback to the book, since she is 
presented as a special, talented woman. Isa
dora has an imagination as horrible as the 
history of the world, a surreal life. But 
the novel is curiously devoid of inventive 
imagery. Insults cut her like a knife; 
dirty floors look like the aftermath of a 
car wreck. She writes The History of 
the World Through Toilets (Japanese: 
squatting as a basic fact of life ... some
thing to do with Zen.). She also contemthat Isadora is confused. Madame Bovary is 
no Florence Nightingale; characters with 
weakness and insecurities are perfectly 
valid subjects. Jong never reveals, however, 
what Isadora is beneath her pomp and 
hysteria. Any housewife, no less a poet, has 
more deep and honest emotions than Jong 
allows Isadora.
Instead of describing how life is cont radictory . . . funny, tragic and with 
moments of outrageous beauty, Isadora 
mocks her own vision by comparing it to
plates The History of the World Through 
Fucking. Isadora thinks cute, not deep or 
daring. Cuteness and berating herself are 
her main activities. She worries that even 
my jaundiced view of myself is self-flatter
ing.
The problem with Fear of Flying is not
a fruitcake with delicious plums and bad 
peanuts. When her lover accuses her of 
being oral, she says you want to make 
something of it; they kiss, and a potential
ly revealing statement is drowned in glib
ness. Isadora may be intelligent, but Jong 
chains her to being coy and silly.
AN INQUIRY INTO THE HUMAN PROSPECT
ana Mrr Cn 
shotography
Wednesday, February 5 
7:30 pm 
Breed Hall
Sponx*d Ctm&jt Profrnr Pltnnnf
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975Page 19
- STEVE GOODMAN
'Good Morning America
* , Tr~ \
How are ya'
CMU I.D. REQUIRED
?SmallFREE 
Medium$.50 
Large$1.00?
FOR THE EYES ONLY [-----------
ABC '75 TROUBLE AHEAD SOLUTION
by Arnie Karr
ABC 75 is a rather difficult concept 
to put your finger on. Though adorned 
with an eye-catching computer graphics 
logo, one must still view it as the desperate 
mid-season SOS of TVs least successful 
national network. If shows like Barney 
Miller, which premiered at 8 pm on Thurs
day, January 23, are any indication of 
ABCs response to CBSs and NBCs dom
ination of the sitcom market, we can 
expect an equally impressive new logo 
from them in late August. Regardless of 
whether or not you like the networks new 
look, you just cant help hating Barney 
Miller.
The show imitates all the winners, but it 
is neither flattering nor entertaining. 
Barney, played by Hal Linden, is a highranking New York City policeman like 
Kojak and the head of a household like 
Archie Bunker, but he is neither aggressive 
like Savalas nor funny like OConnor. We 
are supposed to be swayed by his convin
cing smile and game show MC mannerisms, 
but these help little when confronted by 
the sight of a man who looks like hes 
never held a gun or brought up a child. But 
Lindens lack of ease in his new role is not 
the shows biggest problem. Though the 
supporting cast did their best during the 
debut, the action was so ludicrous that 
their efforts were totally wasted.
Barney Miller tries to combine familial 
situation comedy with tense police drama 
and fails to produce either. One moments 
knee-slapper is supposed to be next 
moments nail-biter. At the 12th Precinct, 
we meet a frantic Puerto Rican junkie 
named Ramon (played feebly by prize
fighter Chu Chu Mulave) who has just been 
arrested. After failing with a crop of pre
dictable jokes about honkey, he grabs a 
cops gun and threatens to kill anyone who 
tries to block his escape. The only tension I 
experienced during this scene resulted from 
my fear that the studio audience wouldnt 
realize that it was supposed to be drama 
and would laugh. Though I knew no one 
would get hurt, I was silently hoping that
NHW ~T 2 LHe~TSHNSMONTESSORI
1975n76 Teacher Training 
rrogram
APPROVED BY THE AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Fifth AERCO Summer Academic Program 
for 8 weeks Irom june 25 1975 to August 15. 1975 to be followed by a nine month Internship Experience Stu 
dents will be trained in the Montessori philosophy and teaching method child 
development and learning materials for preschool programs AERCO/Ithaca 
Program conducted on the campus of Cornell University and AERCO/Phild Program conducted on the campus of Manor College
for information and b/ochvre. coll or write
iMailing Address
~m3eH/lthaca Montessori 
Teacher Training rrogram
Mr. fenneth sronsil 
1374 Meadowbright Lane 
eincinnati, Hhio 4523o 
(513) 231 o868
~m3eH/rhiladelphia Montessori 
Teacher Training rrogram
14oo mast Willow Grove ~ve. 
rhiladelphia, ra. 19118 
(215) ~D 3 o14142
Ramon would pull the trigger and take this 
defective detective show out of its misery. 
Unfortunately, Captain Miller talked him 
out of it. Euthanasia is still illegal and we 
will have to live with the program until the 
summer.
As poor as the scene at the station 
house was, it did provid a nice dramatic 
relief from the shows stupid jokes. In its 
search for relevant humor, ABC has de
cided to try to make people laugh about 
crime. In order to do this, reality has been 
distorted entirely beyond recognition. The 
Millers have bars on their windows. Mrs. 
Miller (Barbara Barrie) listens to a radio 
station that reports nothing but criminal
acts. The tragedy is that we are asked to 
laugh about their frequency. Ifyou can 
imagine M*A *S*H trying to get laughs 
from casualty statistics (which Im sure 
youd rather not), you have captured the 
essence of Barney Miller. The show tries to 
joke about the least funny aspects of one 
of our countrys least funny problems.
Though Norman Lear may do better for 
them with Hot I Baltimore, it appears that 
ABC has another stiff on its hands with 
Barney Miller. The program suggests that 
the network has run out of new ideas and 
is relying on the success of others. Lets 
hope ABC 76 changes that. The imi
tator can never be as funny as the imitated.
SLEPTftl
IoBtot e
UVgLEVIM ommflve:
____'mM m/f
LI REBo VA, SCEN ERVBdU El-I
AwMvmFfiTmrUv e* l 
TI erBw I SHBett n aI D TSBx 0Ji.A S ABBWt H E.D E n'mE 
ttl,M nCUUHouH FIREBA es 0 P SBTg-A-2
IN ERT I AtLA-lmV MM
lyPage 2eTHEPA RN
Delivery 8:3o Febe
Date FRIAY. FEBRUARY 7
Pick Up At bruayrrF 4,u1a97 5,Va
rroprietor: ~s eoncerts and eoffeehouse eommittees
pizza productions presents:

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-February 4, 1975
Address
City_______________________
State___________________ Zip
Your check, made payable to 
CARE, is tax deductible.
CARE
KAUFMANN'S 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
Here is my $______
to feed and aid 
hungry children.
Name
by James O. Fletcher
GIRLS ... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION? 
Applicants are now being considered for the 1975 camp season. Must be able 
to teach one of the following: Dancing. Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing. Archery, Tennis, Tennis Director, Golf Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General Athletics. Secretary also needed.
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS, must be college graduate experienced in camping. 
Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs etc. Supervise large 
staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 21209.
FREE TUTORS
IN ALL
F3mSAM~N and SHrAHMH3m SeSmNem 
and mNGSNmm3SNG eHU3SmS.
For More Information
eall or Drop in to the rmm3 AmLr emNTm3. 
s~fm3 A~LL 15on~ 621n99oo
To make meaningful a supernatural 
world of witches, wills, fairies (good and 
bad) and swan maidens is a difficult task in 
this age of sophisticated technology. When 
poorly or even fairly presented, the classics 
evoke little or no magic, but are simply 
viewed as powerless artifacts, no longer 
antiques, but junk.
Although still a beautiful ballet, Swan 
Lake is beginning to fray around the 
edges. Company after company includes it 
in its repetoire with few or minor changes. 
It is in serious need of a booster shot to 
make it more palpable to an audience of 
this age. Today we have a much higher 
threshold of escapism and in order to re
late, an audience simply needs more. We 
are sued to more complicated love affairs 
and an oddity like Love Story occurs only 
once in a great while.
I can understand officials of the PBT 
wanting to give its dance audience a 
thorough diet of the standard productions, 
but the crowds are not as remedial as they 
think. They ache for newer ballets or mod
em interpretations of the older ones. 
Swan Lake possesses the same thin story 
line with variations on a theme: boy meets 
swan, boy falls in love with swan, boy loses 
swan, etc. This plot can only envelope us ir 
its magic if presented with an ardor and 
gravity that even the dancers believe in.
Last week the Pittsburgh Ballet presen
ted its version of the old warhorse, Swan 
Lake. In a word, it was lackluster. There 
was no sense of the kind of unified inter
dependence which has enabled this ballet 
to endure. A cohesiveness between acts was 
lacking and the performance on a whole 
seemed like a dress rehearsal. Individual 
and group performances were more memor
able than the entire production. Dagma 
Kessler as Odette/Odile displayed her fint
Have a medical problem but 
no money to pay for help? 
PEER HELP 
administers the Student Senate 
Health Fund 
Baker Hall 150A or 621-2600
sense of classic line and exhibited her ex
cellent technique in her duo role. But there 
was no time in which I believed she was or 
ever could be a swan; she was merely a 
woman impersonating a swan. There was 
little distinction between her black and 
white swan. Thierry Dorado as Prince Sieg
fried was cool and almost indifferent and 
though he is a capable partner, I have not 
yet seen him in any outstanding solo. Greg
ory Begley demonstrated his ability as a
NEW LOW PRICES
FOR STUDENTS & FACULTY
XEROX COPY PRICES:
I  5 - 6C/copy 
6-10 - 3 C/copy
II -15 - 2C/copy 
16 - Up -1 VaC/copy
100 copies cost $ 1.83 
(OF SAME ORIGINAL)
Ask for o quote on 
large volume jobs.
Expert Typing Available on IBM 
Selectric Typewriters
OFFSET PRINTING PRICES: 
100 Copies-S3.50 
Each additional 100 - 90<
1000 Copies-S11.60 
Each additional 100- 80<
2000 Copies-$19.60 
Above 5000 each additional 
100 Copies-70 (
COPY CATOUICK COPY CENTER
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
683-8040
* MUST PRESENT OFFICIAL 
1.0. CARDS
BOOK BINDING PRICES: 
Composition Cover - S1.50 
Paper Cover - S . 85< 
Hard Cover - $4.00
WONT YOU HELP?
strong character dancer in his role as the 
jester, as did Jordeen Ivanov as the gypsy. 
Both are fine dancers who move with an 
energetic fervor not seen anywhere else in 
the company.
The two head swans danced bv Suzanne 
Davis and Jenne Loomis were never quite 
together. The high point of the evening was 
the precision of the corps. From their en
trance in the Second Act to the final cur
tain they were secure, assured and accur
ate. The dances of the various nationalities 
were a bore except for the fine solo by 
JoAnn McCarthy as the Russian. The aris' tocratic guests were insipid, as if they did 
not know why they were there.
Like many dramas, some things remain ^ 
while others are lost forever. A few individ
ual performances from last week will stay 
^with me. As there are A and B movies, 
there are obviously A and B ballet pro
ductionsthis was a definite B.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANFebruary 4, 1975 Page 21
TRUE GRIT
by Q^iff
If it sounds country, man, thats what it 
is. With those few words, Kris Kristofferson managed to label a brand of music 
* that many performers had spent their 
-whole careers trying to define.
Country musicit no longer bears some 
ugly connotation. It is a very real, accepted 
part of musical tradition. This form of 
music is sacred American, beer flavored, 
and surprisingly electric. Its own stars span 
four generations; the whole country field is 
a large family, full of parental roots. An 
If example of this is the Earl Scruggs Revue. 
I Earl, who was the banjo picking half of the 
[ Flatt and Scruggs act, now has a new 
I musical show featuring sons Gary and 
I Randy. Of course there are the blacksheeps 
I of this family too. Renegades Waylon 
I Jennings, Tom T. Hall and Kris Kristofferson have been branded outlaws in the field 
because they dared to incorporate first rate 
rock music into their special kind of Coun
try Music.
It seems that Country music actually 
has some traceable origins, which is con
trary to popular belief that some hillbilly 
ripped open an ear of corn and out came 
the seeds of foot stompin music. Country 
music became a professional recorded form 
of music when a talent scout, by the name 
of Ralph Preet, recorded the Carter Family 
and the singing cowboy Jimmy Rogers in a 
Tennessee warehouse back in August of 
1927. Their philosophy of mobility and 
happiness kept thest two acts in great pop
ularity for many years to come. They were 
a godsend to the people of Appalachia, the 
hired hands of the railroad and the hard 
working coal miners of rural America.
It seemed that Country music was surely growing and fluorishing. For a few dif
ferent reasons that even Im not com
pletely sure of, Nashville Tennessee became 
the home of this wonderful sound. It is 
here that the Ryman Auditorium is lo
cated. If that name doesnt ring a bell, then 
try the Grand Ole Opry on for size. Yes, 
every Saturday night for #ie past fifty 
years, the greatest stars of Country Music 
have delivered their finest hours of listening pleasure to the 3,700 plus crowds that 
collect here from all over the country. On 
any given Saturday evening, you may be 
lucky enough to hear the sounds of Roy 
Acuff, Hank Snow and the incomparable 
Merle Travis. These are the names of the 
old greats who rest comfortably on their 
infinite laurels, while waiting to join their 
departed compainions, such as Cowboy 
Copus, Tex Ritter and the immortal Hank 
Williams.
Well, Country music has come a long 
way since the reigns of these fading kings. 
This is not to say that the Country road 
has been entirely smooth. As unpredictable 
as the stock market, Country music has 
seen its share of ups and downs.
An appliance salesman from Memphis 
knew about the hard times. This particular 
salesman hit the big time with a song en
titled . Folsom Prison Blues. The year was 
1956 and not long after that work became 
impossible to find because the new breed 
of country stars had defected to rockn 
roll. Their names were Carl Perkins, Jerry 
Lee Lewis, and Elvis Presley. This partic
ular salesman took it all on the chin and he 
just kept moviri on. His name was Johnny 
Cash and he was to wait another decade to 
find his eternal home in country stardom.
It was the early 1960s and a lot of 
lonesome folksingers were just milling 
around in New York Citys Greenwich 
Village. Cash came wandering through this 
scene, somewhere arotind the time that the 
critics were just beginning to assess what 
kinds of talent were collecting on the 
streets of their fair city. Cash, who was 
extremely down on his luck at this point, 
began to pick up on this stream of talent. 
He traded ideas with some of the brighter 
young artists, and it was probably here that 
he was inspired to start doing topical songs 
of protest. One particular face stood out to 
Johnny Cash; his name was Bob Dylan. 
Though I cannot vouch for the credibility 
of this story, it has been said that Casth 
taught Dylan many old country standards 
and even helped him with his harmonica 
playing. One thing that I do know for sure 
is that Cash did not introduce Dylan to 
Columbia Records. Thats just one of those 
little facts that I thought should be cleared 
up.
As Rock music matured, it brought 
harder times to the back-up musicians of 
Country music. Nashvilles finest musicians 
were brought to New York to play on 
records of pop music fame. Though they 
received little credit, they actually pro
vided the background for many hit records. 
Without too much checking, I could easily 
find proof that people like Charlie Daniels, 
Charlie McCoy and Kenny Buttrey have 
played on albums by Simon & Garfunkel, 
Joan Baez and Barbra Streisand without 
any sort of recognition.
The number one record producer for 
Columbia Records came up with a brilliant 
iuea that proved to be the crowning glory 
oi his career. Bob Johnston prompted Bob 
Dylan, at the peak of his own career, to 
record an album down in Nashville. Dylans 
sassy lyrics combined with the slick coun
try-rock oi Nashvilles finest, soon became 
a winning combination. Before the end of 
the sixties, almost every major artist had 
rushed to do a country-flavored album. 
Nashvilles recording studios had expanded 
and many said that the new recording 
equipment found there was the best in 
America. The Byrds went country as did 
the Grateful Dead. Country music was 
turning up on records by such giants as the 
Beatles and the Rolling Stones. The steel 
guitar became an added plus to many discs 
and not just a discomforting distraction.
It was at this time that Johnny Cash 
came charging back with a string of big 
hits, among them Ring of Fire, a re
hashed Folsom Prison Blues, and last but 
not least A Boy Named Sue. With this 
success came a new term that the music 
world had never known before. The term is 
crossing over and its definition is quite 
simple. It means that an artist in either the 
field of rock or country, has a hit that is so 
big that it is played not rnly in its own 
perspective field, b n also in ihe other areas 
of hit sounds. Mac Davis has become the 
Number One example of ihis, with his hit 
Baby Dont Get Hocked On Me.
This will be continued next week with 
cart two of this two-part series.
THE HISTORY OF ANIMATION
with 
Bob Clampett
creator of Beeny and Cecil and Bugs Bunny
Monday, February 1oth 
Workshop. uoo Wherr^tt 3oom 
Lecture: 8:eo Skito sallroom 
Frn?e ^ith eMU D
Soc 'sr.ref ti'i A3 Lectjr^

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
vV&J Upsets
y Jeff Englund
Letting the other teams guards get as 
lany rebounds as its big men, and letting 
lat team hit 14 more field goals than 
ours, usually is followed by adding 
nother marker to your loss column.
Backcourtmen Jerry Rossi and Mike 
iovinski led Washington and Jeffersons 
residents to a 78-60 upset win over CMU 
ist week on the latters home court, with a 
ombined output of 34 pints and 14 reounds. Tom Sniscak, who filled out W&Js 
'rimarily three-guard attack, added 10 
-oints.
Carnegie-Mellon began controlling play 
ifter the opening tipoff, leading by six in 
he early going. The tide turned midway 
ihrough the first half, however, and kept 
oiling in the Presidents favor the remain
der of the game. Ed Tomko, the exper
ienced roadblock, brought his bulk off the 
3ench to clog up the middle, and the W&J 
sharpshooters started to get hot.
Neither Tomko nor his predecessor Jim 
Nfard were able to keep Paul Hamerly from
GAME SUMMARY 
W&JFGFTFTATOT
Turkaly50010
Tomko50010
Levine1002
Rossi77921
Covinski61213
Cercone1002
Nard42210
Sniscak50010
34101378
CMUFGFTFTATOT
Chambers4008
Derringer2236
Hamerly991027
Ward0000
Wukich37813
Klein0000
Jason0000
Hotimsky0222
Bonn1002
Boykins1012
20202360
The Steelers have played at Skibo Gym 
each year for the last several years, but 
never has the floor been graced by the 
World Champions of pro football.
The starting team is not definite, but 
listed as being on the squad are Franco 
Harris, L. C. Greenwood, Joe Greene, Mike 
Wagner, Roy Gerela, Ernie Holmes, and 
Terry Bradshaw. The Steelers will be 
looking for a return victory as they de
feated the CMU All-Stars last year.
Pass the word. The Steelers are coming. 
Friday, March 7 at 8:00 pm. Skibo Gym. 
CMU ID required. No outsiders permitted.
'Wrestlers Fall 
to Grove City"
by G. B. Gordo
The Carnegie-Mellon wrestling squad 
lost a close match this past Saturday to 
visiting Grove City 24-15. Although the 
Tartans were defeated it was definitely a 
different story than last years CMU-Grove 
City match which Grove City won 46-0. 
The overconfident bearcats realized they 
were tangling with a much improved team 
when CMU 118 pounder Dan Boger scored 
an 8-6 decision to start off the match. 
Boger dazzled his opponent with three 
single-leg takedowns, then struggled to 
maintain his early lead.
At 126 pounds, A1 McCurdy wrestled 
one of Grove Citys best wrestlers in 
muscular and talented Bob VanKirk. 
McCurdy, who had only practiced 4 days 
prior to the match, did an outstanding job 
but was finally pinned with 2 minutes left 
in the match.
In one of the most exciting matches of 
the day, freshman Bill Aldridge lost a 
narrow 14-9 decision to Ron Thompson. 
The lead seesawed from period to period 
continued on page 23
MEN'S BASK&TBALJ 
Feo 5 Bethany sway. 8 pm
Feb 8 John Carre. a ey, 8 pm
Feb 10 tit Vincent may', 3 pm 
WOMSfTi. BASKETBALL 
Feb * O* Sot awvy, 6 om 
rib hw, 3 pro
Frtb 10 Dug;*' away 7 pro
Tartans
having one of his finest nights ever. The 
Tartans leading scorer tallied 27 points, 
hitting on nine of 16 attempts from the 
floor, and making nine of ten free throw 
attempts.
All-PAC guard candidate Dane Wukich 
kept his field goal percentage hovering 
around the .500 mark with three successes 
in seven field goal tries while his seven for 
eight figure from the line gave him a total 
of 13 points. Strongman Dennis Derringer 
crashed the boards nine times to lead all 
rebounders, and remain neck and neck with Hamerly as a team leader in that L.C. Gresnwood will ,ppMr in Skibo Gym.
department.
PAC STANDINGS 2 February 1975 
W L
Allegheny61
Hiram61
John Carroll43
Bethany43
CMU25
Case Western25
W&J25
Thiel16
"Steelers toMeet AI I-Stars
by Mike Pochan
The World Champion Pittsburgh 
Steelers basketball team will appear in 
Skibo Gym, Friday March 7 at 8:00 pm to 
take on the CMU Intramural All-Stars.
'Women B-Ballers Win 3"
by Gordon Morrison
The CMU Womens basketball team won 
the opening three games of the season this 
*reek. In the first game, CMU controlled 
the entire game from the opening tip 
against LaRoche college and coasted to a 
final score of 58-21. Quick, accurate passes 
and a very aggressive defense led to a 
runaway early in the game. The team was 
led by Elly Zimmermans 16 points and 
Jean Hundleys 14 points.
In all three games so far this season, the 
strong point has been rebounding. This was 
never more evident in any game than in 
their game against Seton Hill college. The 
CMU women had an off night offensively 
characterized by shots that would not fall 
and many turnovers. Rebounding won the 
game for them as Elly Zimmerman had 21 
rebounds (12 points), Jean Hundleywho 
played only a short time in the second half 
before sustaining a knee injuryhad 17 
rebounds (8 points), and Marty Lisberger 
had 8 rebounds (10 points). The game was 
a team effort, however, as every one was 
getting rebounds or making key steals. The 
game got close at the end with CMU 
managing to hold on 40-38.
In the rematch with LaRoche, the game 
was almost the same, except for the ab
sence of Jean Hundley, who was still side
lined with a sore knee. The women opened 
up to a 23-4 first quarter lead and coasted 
to a team high 64 points in a 64-26 victory. 
The team was led by Elly Zimmerman with 
16 points, Ingrid Goedicke with l points, 
and Marty lisberger with 12 points. The 
starters got plenty of rest as the non-start
ers widened the lead by the end of the 
third quarter.
SCORING SUMMARY
CMU ys LAROCHE (Game 1)
Lisbei tfRr
FG
3
FT
0
FTA
0
ns
6
Whitmore312*
GoedicKe246i
Hundley70514
Zimmerman80016
Sundback0000
TouleC34
Vakiener0010
Ackerman1002
Wilks1002
Hoffman0000
Lloyd0000
Michelson0000
2581858
Ackerman3006
Wilk2024
Hoffman0020
Lloyd0000
Michelson0000
3041864
1841540
FGFTFTAPTS
Bowman4159
Rufle61213
Werthcver23'4
McOei mott50010
Matinko0000
Saber0000
Goldbink1002
DuBreuil0000
photo by Richard Fisher ^ ^ gg
CMU vs LROHt (Game 2)
Lisbergpr
FG
5
FT
2
?TAPTS
Whitr-von*214s
Zimmerman8006
CioedicKP717If
Sundback2004
roclfc1, \2
Vakienar000
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
HOCKEv
sb 9 Su Vpcen*
(K irk Navin Arnia) 9 pm 
! WREST i tKij
Feb 8 Bethany home. 2 p.n 
PW'MM*tG
Feb 8  Betnanv home 2 pm
1F Li:
__________tal_______& fig jJi.riiL 7 *LL.
FGFTFTAPTS
Trbovich0000
Karpinski45813
Stewart1456
Petrarch1002
Schwartz0010
Thompson0000
Anderson0000
Dickson0000
Ward0000
691421
FGFTFTAPTS
Karpinski72416
Stewart0030
Petrarch0000
Schwartz1012
Thompson3006
Anderson0000
Dickson0000
Ward1002
Trbovich0000
Hoffman0000
12CMU vs SETON HILL2826
FGFTFTAPTS
Lisberger42510
Whitmore3147
Goedicke1042
Hundley4008
Zimmerman60012
Sundback0121
Toole0000
Vakiener0000
Ackerman0000
Wilks0000
Hoffman0000
Lloyd0000
Michelson0000

---------------------------------------------------

"Gators Put the BITE on CMU"
by Dave Mickoz ,
The league-leading Allegheny Gators 
basketball team stormed into Skibo Gym 
on Saturday and narrowly escaped with a 
victory over the rapidly improving CMU 
Tartans. The game was unquestionably the 
most exciting of the year, and the large, 
vociferous crowd loved every minute of it. 
The scoring started out slow, Allegheny 
drawing first blood over a minute into the 
game, and CMU not tying it up til 2 min
utes later. After ten minutes of play the 
score was tied 8-8.
This was more of a tribute to the two 
defenses rather than a cut on the offenses. 
The Tartans, who are second in the PAC in 
defense, continued to find success with 
their tenacious 1-3-1 zone matchup, com
ing up with 5 or 6 steals (3 by Greg 
Chambers) in the first few minutes. The 
Gators played a tough man to man, with 
Dave Malone often dropping his coverage 
to double team Paul Hamerly underneath, 
thereby cutting off the big man as a scoring 
threat.
The two teams traded shots throughout 
the first half with Allegheny maintaining a
2 or 4 point lead most of the way. Dane 
Wukich put the Tartans ahead for the first 
and only time of the afternoon 20-18 on a 
20 foot jump shot with 2 minutes to play 
in the first half. The Gators then rattled off
6 straight points and went into the locker 
room with a 24-22 lead.
Both teams were hurt by sub-par offici
ating, which is not often found in the PAC. 
With regard to this, CMU assistant coach 
Ted Barnett would only say Weve dis
agreed on some of the calls underneath, 
and on the subject of an extremely dubious 
charge call on Pat Ward which cost the 
Tartans a possible 3 points, he commented. 
 We thought it should have gone the other 
way, but its the officials interpretation.
In the first 3 minutes of the second half, 
Allegheny got red hot from outside and 
moved out to a 34-26 lead. Bob DelGreco 
started popping from 15 to 20 and Bill 
Faloon was hitting from the corner. It was 
the outstanding rebounding and defense of 
Greg Chambers that kept CMU in the 
game. Chambers finished the game with 18 
rebounds and countless steals.'Wrestling'
but in the end Thompson was able to pull 
out the hard-earned victory.
142 pounder Dave Weeber displayed his 
wares as he recorded a fall at 5:39. Weeber 
built a large lead using an array of leg 
moves before pinning his opponent. Dave, 
who attributes his wrestling success to 
good coaching, conditioning, and having a 
fine woman, now owns the best record on 
the squad, 8 wins to 2 losses.
At 150 pounds, SteVe Johnson came out 
smoking an quickly proceeded to 
outmaneuver his opponent and build up a 
big lead. But as the match wore on, his 
opponents weight and strength (Steve 
normally wrestles 134) took its toll. 
Johnson, who has been hampered by a 
back injury most of the season, was caught 
in a cradle in the last second of wrestling 
and was subsequently pinned.
Ron Smoko, a senior Mech. E., lost a 
6-1 decision at 158 pounds. Although I 
dislike using overused phrases, I must say 
that the match was much closer than the
The Galois held their S point lead for 
all ot the second hall and with 3:40 to pla\ 
they decided to stall. Good defense by Bill 
Boykins forced a jump ball but Alleghcm 
controlled it and once again started to stall.
A steal and subsequent layup b> Gary 
Bonn made the score 54-48 with 1:20 to 
play. Thirty seconds latei Dave Wukich 
pulled oil the same stunt and cut the lead 
to 4. Dan Jason fouled.Mike Malone, who 
missed both shots, and with 25 seconds to 
play Bill Boykins made the score 54-52 on 
a 25 toot set shot. Boykins then
immediately touled Frank Barba who was 
unable to connect from the charity stripe, 
and with 20 seconds to play the Tartans 
had a chance to tie.
It was an errant pass from Boykins to 
Jason with 13 seconds on the clock that 
for all intents and purposes ended the 
game. Two foul shots by Bob Del Greco 
and a corner shot by Gary Bonn provided 
the final score of 56-54.
CMU is now 2-5 in the PAC and 2-9 
overall, but their record does not tell the 
whole story. With the season half over, the 
team has never been more impressive, and 
they get better with every game. In this 
reporters opinion the Tartans are better 
than most of the teams that have defeated 
them, and the rematches coming up in the 
next 11 games should provide them with
some confidencebuildingvictories.
ALLEGHENYFGFTFT APTS
DelGreco82218
Stack1224
Barba50110
D. Malone3006
Faloon4008
M. Malone2024
Mucha3006
264756
CMUFGFTFT APTS
Derringer1002
Chambers70014
Hamerly42210
Ward1224
Wukich72416
Jason1002
Klein0000 -
Hotimsky0000
Bonn1224
Boykins1002
2381054
score indicated. Ron had a greater reper
toire of moves but his opponents strength 
was just too much for him.
Joe Stas, CMlfs 167 pound wrestler, 
pulled a simply fantastic finesse move in 
the last minute of his match, enabling him 
to score a reversal and near fall, and post a
6-2 decision over his Grove City man. Stas, 
who wrestled an extremely tough 
opponent, participated despite having a 
very badly sprained ankle.
At 177 pounds, sophomore Bruce 
Andrews from CMU won a 4-3 decision 
over Jeff Bell, bringing the total match 
score to 18-15 in favor of Grove City. 
However, CMU dropped the next two 
matches with 190 pounder Tom Loeffler 
losing a close decision 8-5 in the last min
ute of his match, and Mike Jochmann 
falling to a 8-2 defeat in the unlimited 
weight class.
It appears that the Tartans, having 
gotten the more difficult part of their 
schedule out of the way, will be able to 
recover from their previous losses and post 
a good overall record for the remainder of 
the 1974-75 season.
Defending champs ATO in action
pnoto Dy Mark Segal"Intramural B-Ball News''
bv Mike Pochan
In major league IM basketball, two 
teams. Salt and Pepper and Pride remain 
undefeated as the race for the major 
championship moves into its third week.
ATO. considered the top contender, 
suffered an emburassing loss to Beta-A by 
four points. Beta remains in the running 
with a 3-2 record. PIKA stands at 2-2 and 
the Orangatangs. last year's intermediate 
champions, show a poor 1-3 total. The 
MBs are 1-4. Roaches 1-3: and GSIA 1-2.
Skaters Whip 
Nitany Lions
by Dave Girdany
In the best hockey game so far this 
season, the CMU Tartans defeated the Penn 
State Nitany Lions by a score of 5 to 4 on 
Sunday night. January 26, at State College. 
Although the game was marked by many 
penalties (11 against PSU, 7 against CMU), 
it was one well played by two excellent 
teams. Going into this game, each team was 
undefeated and untied in six games. This 
game was a good indication of CMlTs abil
ity, as one of Penn States wins was against 
Navy, a team that had beaten Pitt. How
ever, this fact should not be used to argue 
that CMU is better than Pitt, but rather, 
that the Pitt-CMU game on February 15 
will be excellent.
While the score of the game indicates 
how close it was, it does not tell the whole 
story. For the first half of the first period, 
the Penn State skaters clearly dominated 
the action, as they missed some good 
chances to take a commanding lead early in 
the game. However, as play progressed, the 
Tartan skaters began to make it a more 
even game. Penn State scored a power play 
goal midway through the first period to 
take a 1-0 lead which lasted through the 
remainder of the period.
The second period was a different game. 
As much as Penn State had dominated the 
action for a good part of the first period, 
CMU gained total control of the game for 
all but the last few minutes of this period. 
Early in the period, just five seconds after 
Penn State received its second penalty of 
the period to give CMU a two man advan
tage, a Mike Kenworthy slapshot beat Penn 
State goalie Paul Harper to tie the game. 
Twenty four seconds later, while still hold
ing a one man advantage, the Tartans took 
a 2-1 lead, as Tom Grimm picked up a 
loose puck in front of the Penn State net 
and shot it in. The visitors from Pittsburgh 
continued to control play and made the 
count 3-1 in their favor, on another power 
play goal; this one by Dave Cornelius 
midway through the period. A few minutes
Burning up the intermediate leagues are 
PKT-A (2-0). Katoosh (4-0), Willy Frantzs 
Roadrunners (3-0), The Players (4-0), Joy 
Boys of ATO (4-0), and Black Heat (5-0). 
Also undefeated are Bad Co. (2-0), ATO-B 
(2-0). SAE-A (2-0), KS-A (1-0), and 
Coaches All-Stars (2-0).
Tops in the minor league are the Chegsa 
Chickens (3-0), Turkey Butts (3-0), Phriedberg Phools (3-0), and McGilldoes-B (3-0).
Some early predictions: ATO vs. Salt 
and Pepper in the major final; The Players 
vs. Black Heat in the intermediate final; 
and Turkey Butts vs. McGilldoes-B in jag 
final.
photo by Mark Segal
later, with both teams playing a man short, 
Matt Goldsmith beat Harper from a 
seemingly impossible angle to the right of 
the Penn State goal to give CMU a three 
goal lead. But the Tartans seemed to lose 
their control late in the period and Penn 
State scored a big goal in the last minute to 
make it 4-2 in tavor of CMU at the end of 
two.
As the third period started, both teams 
were skating hard, but Penn State was the 
first to score, on yet another power play, 
in the first minute of the period. The puck 
continued to go up and down the ice, until 
about seven minutes into the period, John 
Hauser scored on a breakaway to make it 
5-3. However, the second half of the third 
period began to look like the first half of 
the first period, with Penn State in control 
of the action. But the Tartans allowed the 
Nitany Lions only one more goal and the 
game ended with CMU holding a 5-4 lead.
This was a great game to watch; there 
were very few dull moments. All the 
Tartan skaters played well and goaltender 
Frank Sciulli was especially good when he 
had to be. Nevertheless, credit must be 
given to a fine Penn State team. The 
CMU-Pitt game promises just as much 
excitement, and anyone attending it will 
not be disappointed.
SCORING SUMMARY
(I'm sorry, but because I don't have a Penn State 
roster, I couldn't list the names of the players 
who scored).
First Period: (1) PSU 9:39
Second Period: (2) CMU-Kenworthy (Grimm, 
Cornelius) 2:01 (3) CMU-Grimm (Cornelius) 
2:25 (4) CMU-Cornelius (Kenworthy, Grimm) 
10:05 (5) CMU-Goldsmith 14:16 (6) PSU 19:01 
Third Period: (7) PSU-0:46 (8) CMU-Hauser 
(Arturo, Gallawayf 7:12 (9) PSU-15:56
WPIHA LEAGUE STANDINGS 1 February 1975
Won/Lost/TiedPtsGFGA
Pitt5-0-010476
CMU4-0-08376
Duquesne4-2-082823
St. Vincent4-3-084235
Indiana U of Pa0-3-00423
Penn State0-4-00730
St. Francis0-5-001157
Editors Note: The CMU hockey team ran 
their unbeaten, untied streak to 8 by 
defeating St. Bonaventure 5-2 on Saturday 
in Bradford, PA. Details next week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24THE TARTANFebruary 4, 1975
SUMMm3 
SmSSSHNS 
eMU1975
During the summer, 1975 there will be two 
sixnweek sessions, as follows:
1st SixnWeek Session 
May 13June 2o
3egular Undergraduate eourses
2nd SixnWeek Session 
June 23~ugust 1
rreneollege rrogram, eF~ 
~dvanced rlacement/marly 
~dmission rrogram 
Upward sound
3egular Undergraduate and Graduate eourses
UNDm3G3~DU~Tm 
TUSTSHN WSLL sm 
$24 rm3 UNST
Hther Workshops, Master elasses and 
Special rrograms will be announced
The following is the tentative list of 
courses to be offered. The actual courses 
to be offered will depend on the student 
response.
rlease give your tentative reply as 
soon as possible.
Carnegie-Mel Ion University
Tentative Undergraduate eourses for Summer rrograms
Statistics:
MIS
Biology:
Chemistry:
Computer
Science:
Mathematics:
Physics:
AMS:
CIT
Civil
Engineering:
FINE ARTS
Art:
Music:
S Name. 
I
Local ~ddress.
am interested in the following courses 
Number Session (1) or (2)
1..
2..
rlease return this coupon to:
Director of Summer rrograms 
3oom 1o8 Warner Aall 
earnegienMellon University 
rittsburgh, rennsylvania 15213
elass schedules will be announced after it is 
determined which courses will be offered.
H&SS
Economics:
English:
36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics I 
36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I
03-121 Modern Biology 
03-231 Biochemistry I 
03-240 Cell Biology 
03-121 Modern Biology
09-100 Elementary Chemical Laboratory 
09-105 Elementary Physical Chemical Principles 
09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles 
09-109 Introduction to Chemical Laboratory 
09-117 Organic Chemistry I 
09-218 Organic Chemistry II 
09-243 Physical Chemistry II 
09-244 Physical Chemistry III
15-101 Computer Appreciation
15-104 Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)
15-111 Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)
15-211 Fundamental Structures of Programming
21-121 Calculus I 
21-122 Calculus II 
21-123 Calculus III
21-259 Differential Equations and Linear Algebra
21-260 Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis
21-144 Introduction to Applied Mathematics 
21-450 Introduction to Topology 
21-141 Linear Algebra
Note A: Courses so designated would be offered in the evening 
in one 12-week term, May 13th through August 1st.
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Self-Paced)
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Lect. and Rec.)
33-122 Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)
33-122 Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Lect. and Rec.)
33-123 Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism
33-443 Optics (with emphasis on classical optics)
33-113 Physics of Musical Sound
70-363 Law in Modern American Society
12-102 Engineering Measurements 
12-103 Systems Engineering I
12-205 Introduction to Engineering I
60-251,751 Ceramics 
60-119,719 Drawing
60-125, 725 Drawing for Painting and Sculpture
60-265, 765 Fabric Design
60-342,742 Glassblowing
60-235,735 Lithography
60-379, 779 History of Drawing and Prints
60-254,754 Metalcrafts
60-226; 726 Painting
60-231,731 Screen Printing
60-266,766 Weaving
57----- Individual Lessons: Piano, Organ, Vocal, Instrumental
57-181 Ear Training and Sight Singing
57-833 The Second Viennese Classical School
57-879 Functional Guitar for Music Educators
57-867 Administration and Supervision in Music Education
57-875 Contemporary Problems in Music Education
57-805 Keyboard Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)
57-891 Song Literature I (undergrad, or grad.)
57-855 Seminar in String Literature (undergrad, or grad.)
57-873 Principles of Music Education
57-876 Practicum in String Techniques
57-877 Music Practicum for Elementary Classroom Teachers
57-806 Keyboard Literature II (undergrad, or grad.)
57-892 Song Literature II (undergrad, or grad.)
57-732 Secondary Voice (undergrad, or grad.)
73-100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I 
73-200 Econ. Growth and Fluctuations 
73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.
76-406 Modern Novel 
76-428 American Drama of the Twentieth Century 
76-580 Composition 
76-721 Shakespeare
76-886 The Comic Spirit in World Literature 
76-809 The Twentieth Century American Novel 
76-803 Writing Workshop
History: 79-500 Power and Values in the Modern World
79-103 American Civilization 
79-703 Peacemaking
79-853 Interpreting the History of Modern Thought 
79-857 Readings in History 
79-869 Internship in Historical Research 
79-879 Internship in Curriculum Development
Modern Languages and Literature:
Tutorial Translation Workshops:
82-620 Translation Workshop: French 
82-630 Translation Workshop: German 
82-640 Translation Workshop: Spanish
Programmed basic language skills courses:
82-107 Programmed French 
82-123 Programmed German 
82-143 Programmed Spanish
(1) = First Session: May 13June 20; (2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
6 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)or (2)
9 units(1)or (2)
9 units(Dor (2)
9 units(Dor (2)
11 units(1)
11 units(Dor (2)
11 units(1)or (2)
9 units(1)
See Note A
9 units(1)
See Note A
9 unitsSee Note A
9 units(1)
9 unitsSee Note A
10 units(1)
10 units(1)
10 units(1)
10 units(1)
10 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2)
9 units(2) '
9 units(2)
-12 units(2)
3 units(2)
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)*
6 units(2)**
6 units
6 units(2)**
6 units(2)**
6 units N(2)**
6 units(2)**
12 units(1)
12 units(1)
12 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
9 units(1)
12 units(2)
12 units(2)
12 units(2)
12 units(2)
9 units(Dor (2)
9 units(Dor (2)
12 units(2)
12 units(2)
var. units(2)
var. units(2)
var. units(2)
6-12 units(Dor (2)
6-12 units(Dor (2)
6-12 units(Dor (2)
Up to 18 units (1) or (2)
Up to 18 units (1) or (2)
Up to 18 units (1) or (2)
Second Session: June 23August 1; June 23July 11; **July 14August 1
