ity, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 24, May

---------------------------------------------------

News
Of course, its tough to always look on the bright side of things when our motto seems to be a day without hacking is like a day without sunshine. But where would we be without computers?
The year in review
CMU enjoyed good, bad and indifference, but is benefiting from the attentk
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Contributing Editor
Try to think of a word that sums up this 
year at school.
Keep in mind the famous guests of honor 
at homecoming; a happy hour that turned 
out to be less than happy for 
JT four senators and a rush party 
JP that was equally dismal for three 
^ freshmen and a fraternity. And
dont forget a visit from a president, a 
spanking-new computer complex, and a 
computer abuser who received a tough 
spanking.
not be piling up, no one can take away your 
degree.
Of course, its tough to always look on the 
bright side of things when our motto seems 
to be a day without hacking is like a day 
without sunshine. But where would we be 
without computers? I used to really resent 
the takeover, especially when my mother 
would always take the opportunity at least 
twice during a break to let me know how 
wonderful it is that were getting all of this 
exposure in our education. After two years 
of growling, I realized that I was lucky to be 
in school during die computer revolution.
photo by Mike Pilewskiphoto bv John Rogersphoto by Ne il I
Anyone for running? (1. to r.): Bruce Weitz, Barbara Bosson, and Charles Haid (1. to r.) were among the Hill Street Blues Alumni who came to run Homecoming; Tartan wingback 
Vasalani ran his way to tie a conference-record 18 touchdowns; student senator Orpheus Allison was run out of Senate for his actions concerning a Senate happy hour.
This seemed to be the year of headlines, 
both good and bad. But regardless of the 
content, theres no doubt that we, as poten
tial graduates, are benefiting from all of this 
attention. CMU is gaining a reputation as a 
heavy weight contender, plowing ahead of 
the favorites. We are steadily emerging from
People who have been in the work force for 
some time are getting quite a shock, being 
forced to adapt their old style to new tech
niques. At least we know no other way.
' Fortunately, our school enjoys a reputa
tion outside IBM. We are building from 
within, with expensive plans to renovate
The College of Fine Arts surprised the university with IT in January.
photo by Eric Targan
the underdog cocoon; this growth increases 
the worth of our diploma, and in tum, our 
marketability. (Some of you Chem Es may 
not believe this, but imagine what the job 
search would be like with a degree from a 
state school.) Even though the offers may
Ski bo and build a new gym. The electrical 
engineering department has expanded to 
include computing in its curriculum. Bob 
Choate, the new director of University Din
ing Services renamed the organization and is 
upgrading its image. Brad Walter,in his first
-
photo by Mike Pilewi
CMU was blessed with a March visit by French President Francois Mitterrand.
full year as Dean of Student Affairs, has been ing the season with Coach Chuck Klausu
unhesitant in his actions and has proven to garnering Division III Coach of the Y
be a strong leader and friend to students, award and a number three national coa
GSIA has a new dean, Dr. Elizabeth Bailey; ing ranking due to a phenomenal winni
Gary Waller now heads the English departrecord. Gary Meckley coached the tra
We are building from within, with expensive plans 
renovate Skibo and build a new gym. Bob Choat 
new director of University Dining Services, rename 
the organization and is upgrading its image. Br 
Walter, in his first full year as Dean of Stude 
Affairs, has been unhesitant in his actions and h 
proven to be a strong leader and friend to studen
ment. President Cyert, along with building 
his schools reputation, is doing well exter
nally. He was elected to the Heinz Board of 
Directors and named Man of the Year. The 
statistics department moved to Baker Hall; 
the drama department staged two fine shows, 
The Greeks and Guys and Dolls, and 
after increasing its power to 100 watts, 
WRCT can now be heard from afar.
Completing the strong support system are 
several talented sports teams. The football 
team earned a #1 rating in Division III durteam to his career 100th win this weeke 
cross-country recently placed 12th in 
nation. The swimming team placed in 
nationals. And womens tennis continua 
dominate the conference.CMU certainly 
more to show for itself than just brains.
In its departmental diversity, CMI 
unlimited in its areas of excellence. Its 
easy meeting such high standards for 
years, but a winning ticket is worth fighn 
for. Especially when you know it will 
off.

---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1984The TartanPage 3
Students fail because 
of alleged plagiarism
9 RIC MEDROW
-flrtart Editor in Chief
22 CMU students have been failed as a 
gsult of alleged plagiarism, while four othrs have been referred to the University Disiplinary Committee (UDC) for review of 
heir cases. A UDC appeal is open to all 26 
tudents.
The alleged plagiarism stems from a 
per assigned in Origins of the Modern 
Vorld (79-110). According to Dr. Ludwig 
chaefer, head of History and Philosophy, 
he first case of copying was found when an 
nstructor was grading several papers. The 
nstructor asked Dr. Kate Lynch,' course 
oordinator, a routine question about the 
aper. Schaefer said something in the quesion jogged her [Lynchs] memory con
cerning a paper she had graded earlier.
At that point, Lynch asked her staff to 
ompare the approximately 250 papers. 
The staff worked very conscientiously to 
fair. We have a concerned faculty, said 
chaefer.
Sold and Morris win GSIA's "Entrepreneur of the Year"
Of the 26 papers, some of them were iden
tical. Several students have admitted to pla
giarism, while in some cases papers were 
obviously copied without the students 
knowledge, said Schaefer. In such cases, the 
matter was immediately dismissed.
Schaefer said all papers that were similar 
were handed in to different teachers. He 
added, Professor Lynch had to take certain 
actions, but stressed the discovery of sim
ilarities was accidental.
Dean of Student Affairs, Braden Walter 
said, I think its important The Tartan 
publicize this article. On the one hand, I 
think students have to realize this issue has 
to be taken seriously, but we have to be sure 
confidences are maintained so nobody gets 
hurt.
Walter added, Nobody ever got through 
college on cheating. It may alleviate some 
inidal anxieties, but only creates more 
later.
photo by Neil J. Greenblum 
Freshman Lisa Salley was elected Student Senate treasurer last week in a tight, four 
candidate race. Salley succeeds Frank Orgain.
Mi
y LEDA HANIN
pedal to The Tartan
Two Camegie-Mellon University stuents who developed the concept of selling 
ised computers in a retail setting are the 
oint winners of the Entrepreneur of the 
ear Award.
Stephen Gold and Jeffrey Morris, secondear students at the Graduate School of 
ndustrial Administration (GSIA), received 
le first dual award.
David Mitchell, president of the Smaller 
Manufacturers Council of Pittsburgh, gave
the award to the winners at a luncheon in 
their honor.
The Entrepreneur of the Year Award is 
given annually to a member of GSIAs gra
duating class w ho successfully demonstrates
the business savvy and managerial skills 
necessary for an entrepreneurial career.
Sponsored by the Smaller Manufacturers 
Council of Pittsburgh, the award was estab
lished seven years ago by Jack Thome, who 
teaches entrepreneurship and small busi
ness at GSIA.
Earlier this year Gold and Morris won a 
prize for an entrepreneurial project done for 
Thomes small business course. At a dinner 
celebrating their victory, they came up with 
the concept of their business, ComputeRenaissance, which specializes in the sale of 
used personal computers on consignment to 
individuals and small business.
Our business is unique in the Pittsburgh 
area, says Gold, because we offer a 30-day 
warranty, user support, educational assist
ance and repair service.
Morris says, We expect that 80 percent of 
sales will be to individuals looking for a 
used computer to meet their needs at a lower 
cost than a new one.
Gold and Morris say that ComputeRenaissance gives people the opportunity to 
trade for more sophisticated computers 
when they have technologically outgrown 
their existing computers.
ComputeRenaissance has been operat
ing since February. Gold and Morris plan to 
open a retail store in the Pittsburgh area by 
June and expect franchises within two years.
Attention Graduating Seniors
SIGN UP FOR TEAM COMPETITION
atYear-end Reunion
Fri. May 11 
5 p.m.-ll p.m.
Sign up at Information Desk 
starting May 3rd 9-5 p.m.
* Teams must consist of 10 seniors (5 males r 5 females)
funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
The management invites the Faculty 
Mermbers, Graduate Students & CMU Guests 
to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & 
STUDIO APARTMENTS that could become 
available for May, June, July and August 
occupancy.
 WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS FROM CMU
 REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
 THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
 "THE FAIRFAX" ... 4614 5th Ave.!
 WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
 YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
We are open for your viewing seven days per 
week. PLEASE call H. M. HARRITY for YOUR 
appointment; anytime. DIAL 621-4030. We'll 
see YOU at "THE FAIRFAX" . . . Neighbor.
II it tnctudas a challenging career, regular promotions, 
eaceHent pay and benefits, and opportunities for advanced 
education, perhaps the answer hes in becoming an Au Force 
officer through Ah Force ROTC. Find out about our 3 1/2.X t/2. and 2 yoar scholarships that ay tuition, booh coats, activity few. end J1O0 par month by caWng Captain Scott at 97B-H747, or atop by Port or Hall 15.
ROTC
Gotevsoy to a great way of life.
Save $25.
on 14K gold College Rings.
DATE
TIME
PLACE
TRVED
CLASS RINGS INC
t 1983 ArtCarved Class Rings Inc
Now's the time to think about 
your college ring Not just any 
ring -a 14K Gold College Ring 
from ArtCarved Ttie karat gold 
jewelry that's designed and hand
crafted for lasting value 
And now an ArtCarved 14K Gold 
College Ring is more affordable than you 
think Choose from an entire collection of 
14K Gold ArtCarved College Rings and 
save $25 This offer is for a limited time 
only, so come in and see all the great 
ArtCarved styles with the custom options 
that can let you have the ring of your 
choice, the way you want it
So graduate in style Graduate to gold!
Deposit Required 
MasterCard or Visa Accepted
Nothing etee feete like real gold
Date: Thursday, May 3, Friday, May 4 
Time: 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
Place: Baker Hall Lobby
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon., Tu.. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street irom 
Oakland Post Office
Get that Great XV /%/%If Natural, Distinctive and totally
LUUffy

---------------------------------------------------

__________________Features.
. . be enthusiastic"
esoro gives all to students, seeks to cultivate potential and overcome weaknesses
soro, recommended by entire studio, is Teacher of the Week.
photo by Mike Pilewski
The following article is a result of the 
Academic Affairs committees search for 
excellence in teaching. The response was 
good and the following professor is 
acknowledged as Teacher of the Week. 
In an effort to encourage better teaching 
and recognize outstanding teachers, the Aca
demic Affairs committee of Student Senate 
had asked students to come forward with 
comments, primarily complimentary; on 
anything academic. This committee has 
received many commendations of professors 
and teaching assistants in response to the 
letter and announcements in The Tartan. 
Each commended teacher has received a let
ter of commendation with courtesy copies 
going to the administration. An impressive 
petition, signed by an entire studio, 
acknowledged professor Andrew Tesoro as 
one example of outstanding teaching. 
Therefore, he has been chosen as Teacher 
of the Week.
His students cited his dedication to the 
profession and the teaching of architecture
anhel President involved around campus
LINDA HOAG
rtan Staffurriter
Name . . . Date of birth . . . Address . . . 
xial Security number . . . School ID . . . 
Sound familiar? If so, then youre probay one of the thousands of students attend
ee; CMU. However, this information on 
iper doesnt do justice for the many stu
nts who make up the student population. 
:ts take a 3-dimensional look at one of 
VIUs 2-dimensional students.
It was a breezy rain-filled afternoon on 
hich I chose to interview Julie Grant, a 
nior metallurgy and pre-law student bom 
1964. Although I had previously known 
lie, I never knew any of her achievements, 
|>pes, or past experiences. I was surprised 
wish to share some of these surprises 
|th you. So, let me introduce Julie Grant. 
Currently she is Panhel President, IFC 
t Vice President, a Delta Upsilon little 
ter, a member and past treasurer of Delta 
lta Delta, serves on the Presidential Stut Advisory Council, is a member of the 
tals Club (honorary Metallurgy), and 
'es on many respective committees, 
unds like a resume, doesnt it? Though 
a lot of hard work, she still maintains a 
to 3.5 QPA.
Being an officer is easy you might say ... 
11, an office is just a title, and youre right
 it is easy to have a title, but to incorporate 
new and improved ideas and to implement 
these ideas to improve the office is another 
story. Julie has brought new ideas to her 
offices and has been able to get results, too. 
An example is Panhel. As president, she has 
changed the previously unorganized group 
into a very efficient, parliamentarystructured organization with improved poli
cies on rush and sororities as a whole. Also, 
as a member of the Student Advisory Coun
cil (along with other student leaders) she has 
restructured the Mastery Exam, organized 
Greek Sing, and currently is discussing a 
possible renovation of Skibo.
Julie, however, never finished high 
school and never received her high school 
diploma. Sound ridiculous? Maybe. Julie 
might have completed high school, how
ever, if her family had not moved from Ohio 
to Pennsylvania. Bom in Pittsburgh, she 
eventually started her freshman year of high 
school in Elyria, Ohio. She was president of 
her class, in Key Club, treasurer of the Stu
dent Body, planned proms, served on Stu
dent Council, and was in the band and 
orchestra. Family plans, however, moved 
them to the tiny town of Meadville, Pennsyl
vania. Julie didnt like the small high school 
at all. Everyone was in their own little 
cliques and were very marriage oriented, not
college oriented at all. The only reason she 
kept trying was a desire to attend a good 
college. To compensate for her low high 
school interest, she turned to other activities. 
She worked with the mentally retarded, took 
courses at Allegheny College (along with 
five AP courses), and worked with the 
Governmental Advisory Council by speak
ing in Harrisburg and other areas on drugs 
and alcohol.
She was accepted to CMU for pre-college 
the summer after her junior year and was 
accepted to college the following year. She 
didn t hesitate to skip her senior year of high 
school.
Camegie-Mellon and the Greek system 
arent new to Julie, whose parents, grand
parents, great-grandparents, and aunts and 
uncles all attended this university. Her 
great-grandfather was the first president of 
Delta Upsilon and a member of the first 
graduating class of Carnegie-Tech. Her 
father was a member of Sigma Nu, and her 
grandmother was a Tri-Del t.
Julies future plans are to attend Law 
School at Pitt or Penn State. With all this 
going on you might wonder if she has any 
free time.'A little, she claims, which I use 
to catch the symphony or sit at home play
ing Trivial Pursuit. Quite a normal, 2- 
dimensional CMU student indeed.
as exceptional. They also stated that his atti
tude and personal involvement encouraged 
them to work harder in the studio. As 
affirmed in the petition, he provided an 
atmosphere highly conducive to the pursuit 
of true knowledge and learning.
According to Tesoro, good teaching does 
not just happen, it must evolve with time 
and practice. There are two points which he 
feels are important to his teaching.
 I rely very heavily upon my concurrent 
professional practice of architecture in my 
teaching, which I believe enables me to try to 
communicate a vision of the nature of archi
tecture to aspiring architects, as well as to 
instruct essential skills and processes. The 
studio circumstance as the nucleus of the 
students education commands, I believe, 
such an effort.
 I look for the students potential and seek 
to cultivate it; to help the student to over
come weaknesses and develop strengths; to 
understand the importance of doing their 
absolute best.
He urges students to be enthusiastic 
about their designs and chosen profession.
The Academic Affairs committee is con
tinuing its Response Program, both compli
ment and complaint forms. If you know of 
any professor or teaching assistant who is 
commendable or if you know' of anything 
academic that could improved, please con
tact the committee, Student Senate, c/o 
Skibo Information desk.
photo by Bob Fishel
Julie Grant
1IESEC-CMU to host Information Technology Conference
[ANDREA SHIAH
to The Tartan 
impact of the information revolution
will affect the lives of students, professors, 
professionals and just about every individ
ual in the United States.
photo by Neil J. Greenblum 
f*de,Hs from AIESEC-CMU who helped arrange conference schedule.
This can be seen on the CMU campus by 
widespread use of computers. In order to 
provide an understanding of the informa
tion age and how to deal with it, AIESECCMU will be hosting the Information 
Technology Conference. This conference 
will provide an opportunity to hear interna
tionally renowned experts and leaders of the 
information age speak.
The conference will take place May 21-23 
at the William Penn Hotel in downtown 
Pittsburgh. It will be attended by student 
delegates, educators, and top/middle man
agement from around die world. Included 
in the list of speakers is Alvin Toffler, author 
and social critic best know for his analysis of 
contemporary social change. His books 
include Future Shock and Third Wave 
which have been published in some 30 lan
guages around the world. William McGow
an, the chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer of MCI Communications, will be 
speaking on the communications industry, 
along with Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber 
the President of the World Center for Per
sonal Computation and Human Resources
in France and the author of World Chal
lenge and American Challenge. These are 
only a few' of the many speakers participat
ing in the conference.
Registration fee for those interested in 
attending the entire conference program 
and all meals will be as follows:
 Non-CMLJ-related individuals  $395
 CMU professors/administrators  $150
 CMU students  $100 (or $50 which 
doesnt include dinner and dinner speakers.)
CONFERENCE AGENDA . 
Monday
8:00 Registration
9:30 Opening .Session  Keynote 
Address
"The Challenges of the lnfarmtion Age 
Jean-Jacques Sen>an-Schreiber, President, 
World Center for Personal Computation 
and Human Resources 
11:30 Lunch 
12:30 Luncheon Speaker 
Future Applications of Technology
continued on pag6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMay 1, 1984
1984 has arrivedBig Brother is watching over you
By MICHAEL J. PILEWSKI
Tartan Photography Editor
Its 1984, and youre short on cash. You 
approach a banking machine matter-offactly, and, under the watchful eye of a hid
den television camera, insert your plastic 
card. A moment later you enter your code... 
and perhaps your identity as well.
Its 1984, and you have a paper due in 
three days. What you need is the perfect 
typewriterone which can rearrange para
graphs, point out misspellings, and print in 
a variety of type faces. There happens to be a 
cluster of such machines on your dorm 
floor. You sit down at one and type, secure 
in the hands of modem technology.
Perhaps when entering the date in a diary 
or on a check, you stop and ponder the 
significance of the last four digits. To most 
people they represent a scenario promoted 
by George Orwell in his classic 1984, a world 
of bleak prosperity and totalitarian govern
ment. In comparing todays society with 
Orwell's, one might be tempted to feel 
relieved that the two are not overdy compar
able. Orwell did not, however, intend for the 
two to be compared; instead, he intended 
1984 to be a political allegory, a means of 
voicing his intense disillusionment with the 
politics of his day.
Orwells world, the home of two-way tele
vision screens and Thought Police, has 
often been interpreted as an environment in 
which technology has given rise to a lack of 
privacy. Indeed, Big Brother, in the guise of 
Big Government, has ways of watching us 
now. Government computers store such 
information as which organizations you 
have donated money' to, how many 
bathrooms you have in your house, and 
whether you paid your last utility bill on 
time.
In the modern world, unlike in Orwells 
fantasy, government is not the only threat to 
privacy. Television rating companies rou
tinely drive through residential neighbor
hoods to determine which channel each 
resident is watching. Responses to aired 
questions on two-way TV channels, now 
accessible in several major markets, are tabu
lated by a computer that remembers who 
voted in favor of which issues. Television
cameras monitor banks, offices, and casinos, 
searching for signs of trouble.
Often overlooked is the benevolent side of 
technolgy. Nuclear technology has provided 
mankind with weapons capable of destroy
ing an entire nation in minutes, but it has 
also introduced the cheapest, most efficient 
form of power commercially available. 
Computers may talk about you, but the 
technology now exists for you to talk to 
them. The same technology responsible for 
your involuntary placement on the mailing 
lists of a dozen advertisers makes it possible 
to converse with friends living thousands of 
miles away. Researchers predict that, due to 
recent advances in miniaturization and 
broadcast technology, the two-way wrist 
TV of Dick Tracy will be a popular item 
within twenty years.
To demonstrate a positive use of the 
media, American new-wave artist Laurie 
Anderson, along with George Plimpton 
and several other renowned musicians from 
various parts of the world, collaborated Jan
uary 1 to air a program entitled Good 
Morning, Mr. Orwell. Featured in the pro
gram were live simulcasts from Paris and a 
lighthearted look at Orwell.
Locally, H. Eberhard von Waldow of the 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary decided
to celebrate the year of Orwellian prophecy 
by presenting a series of workshops in 
March. The discussions covered such topics 
as religion vs. the state, language in modem 
society, and mind control. The real question 
concerning those presenting the series was: 
how close are we to achieving a society sim
ilar to that which Orwell envisioned?
Very close, says Mrs. J. Leo Sheran, 
President of the Allegheny County League 
of Women Voters. Two hundred of his 296 
projections have already come true, she 
stated, adding that it is imperative that peo
ple heed Orwells warning.
On the contrary, Walter Wiest, Professor 
of Religious Philosophy at Pittsburgh 
Theological Seminary, does not believe that 
Western society could ever evolve into 
Orwells fantasy. According to Wiest, laws 
are based on a common morality, not the 
converse, and you cant make your nation 
into God. There will always be those who 
dissent, he said, adding that nothing can be 
put above criticism.
An informal survey of people attending 
the event revealed that almost all considered 
Orwell as an admonisher and not a prophet,
and although most were willing to offer 
interpretations of 1984, only 60% admitted 
to having read the book recently enough 
remember important aspects of the plot 
None had read Anthony Burgess recent 
follow-up, 1985.
As the year progresses and the threat 
Orwellian dictatorship fades, we may ^ 
tempted to congratulate ourselves on having 
averted such disaster. But we must not allow 
ourselves to enjoy this false complacency 
1984 applies not only to this year but to al 
times; as author Erich Fromm puts it, 
means us, too. Orwell had considered 1980 
and 1982 as possible settings for his novel 
and in that sense his vision may already ha 
happened.
But one still wonders. . .what of that 
blank screen observing all entrants to Wean 
Hall? And the message boards in Skibo, tire 
lessly presenting their cheerful news of vie 
tories overseas and economic good times? 
And the strange sculpture in the Kresge 
Lounge which watches the faculty.. .Nine 
teen eighty-four is here, and Big Brother ii 
watching us. Whether he is watching om 
us is still to be decided.
A Phi O celebrates 55 years
photo by Mike Pilewski
Student affected by 1984.
By NICK GIANARIS
Special to The Tartan
On April 9, 1984, Kappa Chapter of the 
Alpha Phi Omega national service frater
nity celebrated it fifty-fifth anniversary of 
service on the CMU campus. To commemo
rate its continuing growth in service to the 
campus and the community, A Phi O wel
comed 23 new initiates into its membership.
Kappa Chapter of A Phi O was founded 
at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 
1929 as one of the ten original chapters of a 
then young fraternity established on the 
principles of scouting. Since then A Phi Os 
long history at CMU has included the initia
tion of the Faculty Course Evaluation pro
gram, pioneering the idea of opening 
membership to both females and males, 
publication of the C-book student directory, 
and implementation, of an annual scholar
ship program which recognizes CMU stu
dents which have served the campus and the
community and is dedicated to Kappa 
long-remembered advisor, Kent D. Shaffer. 
This years scholarship recipient is Donald 
Starver. At present A Phi O proudly con 
tinues to serve the community and campus 
with a low-keyed recognition by its many 
service projects. Kappa, at present the 
second oldest continuous chapter in the 
nation, celebrates the past55 years and antic 
ipates another 55 continuous years 
strength in service.
A Phi O proudly welcomes the following 
new members, initiated April 27,1984, into 
its brotherhood: Joanne Barazzuol, Steve 
Bush, Allison Clark, Sally Devlin, Kathleen 
Drazenovich, Brenda Frandina, J.P. John 
Geld, Judy Gibson, Bill Griffith, Chris Har
rington, Dave Johnson, Jocelyn Jons, 
Arnold Kamis, Mike Kelly, Bev Meyers, 
Tung Ngiam, Susan Potter, Gil Rosenthan, 
Maureen Stempkowski, Pam Sweenev, 
Chris Walton, Betty Weiss, and Val Woot
Conference to consist of renowned experts on current age
continued from page 5
1:30 Sessions 
Management/ Business Track
Office Automation
Amy Wohl, President, Advanced Office 
Concepts
Technical/Industry Track 
Artificial Intelligence 
Research & Development 
James O. Pickard, Pennsylvania Secretary of 
Commerce
General InterestTrack 
Technology in the Henne 
Roy Mason, Mason Acrchitects 
3:30 Sessions 
Management Business Track 
Management Information Systems 
Forest Woody Horton, Consultant 
Computer Security
Donn Parker, Reserch Consultant, SRI 
International '
Technical/Industry Track 
Software Industry
General Industry Track 
Information and the Media 
Richard Durrell, Executive Vice President, 
Time/Life Corporation 
5:00 Break 
6:00 Dinner 
7:00 Dinne Sjjeaker 
Information Technology in Developing 
Countries
Roberto Romulo, President, IBM 
Philippines________________________
Tuesday
8:30 Professional Development 
Workshops
Motivation in the 1980s
Dr. Donald Warrick, Professor, University
of Colorado
Letting Go of Stress
Dr. Jackie Schwartz, President, Schwartz ir
Associates Synergistic Management
learning from Failure
Dr. Robert L. Glass, Assistant Professor,
Seattle University Myths of the Computer
Consultant
11:30 Lunch 
12:30 Luncheon Speaker 
The Third Wave: Changes in the Eighties 
and Beyond A bum Toffler 
1:30 Sessions
Management/ Business Track
Wall Street and the Information Age 
Robert Jaffee, Senior Vice President, Merrill 
Lynch
J. Kendrick Noble, First Vice President, 
Paine Weber, Mitchell & Hutchins
Technical/Industry Track
Robotics
Nelson Winkless, Excalibur Technologies 
Corporation
Wiring the College Campus  IBM/CMU 
Project
Dr. Douglas Van Houweling Vice Provost, 
CMU
Tekcommunictions
Dr. Joseph Pelton, Assistant Director, 
Intelsat
Tom Cross, President, Cross Information 
Company
3:30 Sessions 
Management/Business Track 
Financial Services
George DiNardo, Senior Vice President, 
Mellon Bank 
Technical/Industry Track 
Technological Trends in Japan 
Mamoru Mitsugi, Executive Director, 
Fujitsu, Ltd.
Global Networking
5:00 Break for the day
Wednesday
9:00 Plenary Session 
Information Technology Transfer 
10:00 Sessions 
General Interest Track 
Women and Technology 
Diana Roose, 9 to 5 National Association of 
Working Women 
Computers in Education 
Social Aspects of Technology 
Dr. James Milojkoinc, Professor, Standford 
University
11:30 Lunch 
12:30 Luncheon Speaker 
Communications Industry 
William McGowan, Chairman & CEO, 
MCI Communications 
1:30 Sessions
Managment/Business Track
Organizational 8c Implementation Issues 
John Hendersen, Professor, MIT 
Technical/Industry trade 
Measuring Technological Productivity 
Daniel Appleton, President, DACOM | 
International Communications 
Anne Branscomb, Associate, American 
Association 
Dr. Fred Weingarten, Director, Office1 
Science t Technology
General Interest Track
Changing Values in the Information 
Barbara Hubbard, President, Fut#1 
Network
3:30 Sessions 
ManagementBusiness Trade 
Telecommuting in Eighties
ServieTechnical/Industry Track
Growth of the Information 
Economy
Joshua Smith, President, MAXl 
Corporation
Privacy Issues in the Information Age 
Robert Ellis Smith, Editor, Privacy 
l abor and Employment Issues *
Dr. Harley Shatken, Professor, Mi l 
5:00 Break 
6:00 Dinner
7:00 ('losing Keynote Address 
The Information Society 
Han>ey L. Poppel, Senior Vice Preside, 
Booz, Allen & Hamilton

---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1984The TartanPage 7
photo by Bob Fishel
Herb SimonCMU Bookstore
CMU BokstrteCMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A
oik musician to play old time Appalachian music
By DIANE DUGGEN
to the Tartan 
The many and varied sounds of old time 
ountain music: fiddles, banjos, hammer 
ulcimers and the like will be heard in Pittsllirgh on Thursday, May 10 as John 
zlcCutcheon, one of Americas foremost 
0ik musicians presents a concert of Appal,chian music. The man Johnny Cash called 
the most impressive instrumentalist Ive 
heard and Bluegrass Unlimited chrisned a young legend in the old time music 
 will be appearing at the Frick Fine 
ts Building at 8 p.m.
The young Wisconsin native has enjoyed 
n increasing reputation throughout the 
untry as one of the leading interpreters of 
,e music of the rural southeast - his home 
the past decade. Many of the greats of old 
me mountain music have taken him under 
eir wing and made him the repository of 
me of the finest music made in this counWhether on fiddle, banjo, autoharp, guiult
tar, or Jew's harp, McCutcheons energedc 
virtuosity is, as the Scottish press claimed,
. .breathtaking! And the witty, personal 
anecdotes with which he prefaces each selec
tion paint a picture that gives sensitive and 
illuminating insight into the music and 
lives he presents.
But amid his veritable truckload of instru
ments, McCutcheon is probably best known 
for his role in popularizing the once nearlyextinct hammer dulcimer. Having collected 
music for this beautiful and captivating 
instrument throughout the United States 
and Britain, McCutcheon is widely recog
nized as one of the leading exponents of 
hammer dulcimer music, the French press 
calling his dulcimer album, The Wind That 
Shakes the Barley, . .a quantum leap in 
dulcimer range and technique!
Besides being an internationally 
acclaimed concert performer, McCutcheon 
is a collector and annotator of folk music as
well. He has produced and recorded over a 
dozen albums of traditional mountain musi
cians and exposed scores more through festi
val and concert appearances.
Whether on record or in concert, McCut
cheon communicates with a rare blend of 
wit, charm, and unusually high caliber 
musicianship.
}rotoco/s used as data
imon co-authors new book, 
ives analysis broader base
By SUSAN MELLING
yartan Staffivriter
Herbert Simon, Nobel laureate, Professor 
Psychology and Computer Science at 
ill, has recently co-authored the book 
hotocol Analysis: Verbal Reports as Data in 
lonjunction with K. Anders Ericsson, AssistInt Professor of Psychology at the UniverIty of Colorado. This book gives the 
ivschologists tool of protocol analysis a 
Jew, broader base.
Motivated by the need to understand the 
luman thinking process, Simon and Ericson present evidence that verbal reports or 
protocols of humans can in fact be used as 
ata. This book places protocol analysis on 
jrm ground through examination of its 
Inderlying assumptions, techniques and 
Imitations.
The motivation behind publication of 
> book came about after the release of the 
tide, Verbal Reports as Data in May
1980, by Simon and Ericsson. After 1000 
requests for reprints, both decided to write 
the book.
Protocol Analysis: Verbal Reports as 
Data addresses a general theory of cognitive 
processes and provides explanations behind 
the generation of verbal reports. It also 
points out those factors which may or may 
not alter or influence a humans response. It 
is then to be understood that verbal reports 
can be used as data if taken in context of the 
methods used to collect and analyze such 
protocol.
It is the hope of the authors to achieve 
three main results through publication of 
this book. First, they wish to show 
researchers the validity of using verbal 
reports as data. Second, they hope to provide 
some insight into the human thinking pro
cess. Lastly, this book attempts to get rid of 
the age old theory of introspection which 
asks the subject to describe the sensation 
he/she is feeling.
photo by Richard Conners
John McCutcheon, folk musician, will bring his special type of music to town in May.
)ukintheMoney!
THE
GREAT
BOOK
BUV BACK
Baker Hall
May 9 and 10 
10:00 am - 4:00 pm
Get CASH for
your USED BOOKS 
at

---------------------------------------------------

Order your business cards 
before you go into business.
Now that youve landed your 
first big job, youre going to 
need a lot of things in a hurry 
And the best way to get those 
things is with a Pittsburgh 
National VISA or MasterCard 
account.
Our credit cards make it 
easier for you to make pur
chases. They also make it 
easier for you to pay \bu can 
pay off your balance at the 
end of the month. Or you 
can pay a portion of your 
balance each month.
Credit cards do a lot 
more for you, too. When 
you travel, you 
wont need
to carry as much cash. And 
credit cards are a great way 
to establish a credit rating. 
Something you must have to 
make larger purchases like a 
car or your first house.
Right now, weve made 
it about as easy as it can be 
to apply for a Pittsburgh 
National VISA or MasterCard 
account. Just call us toll free 
at 800-242-2501. Or you can 
fill out the application request 
form below and mail 
it to us.
Please send me an application for 
a Pittsburgh National VISA/MasterCard
PITTSBURGH NATIONAL BANK
Were a bajik that believes in performance.
Member FDIC < 1984, Pittsburgh National Bank
Name
Address
(during the month of May or your permanent address) 
_________________________State_____________________Zip
CollegeGraduation Date
Mail to: Pittsburgh National Bank, Bank Card 
Administration, Unit 764, Pittsburgh, PA 15265^\dni
---------------------I
--------------------I
OR CALL TOLL FREE: I 
800-242-2501 \

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Head of Drama Shapiro 
aits for "Admission"
The Price of Admission, a comic drama 
. jviel Shapiro, head of the Drama Depart
ment at Camegie-Mellon University, is con
tinuing final rehearsal at the Zephyr Theain Los Angeles. It will open May 10. 
Lee Sankowich, who directed the successlul revival of One Flew Over the Cuckoos 
*jest off Broadway, is directing.
Terry Kiser will star. Kiser appeared in 
veral episodes of Hill Street Blues as 
Phil Hitler, the narcoleptic comic. He has 
[iso acted on such TV shows as Nightourt, Hardcastle and McCormick, 
I Knotts Landing, WKRP, All in the 
Family and Maude, among others. His 
Im credits include Six Pack and 
I'Rachei, Rachel. On Broadway, he
appeared in Star Spangled Girl, Shel
ter, The Castro Complex, Paris Is 
Out, Chapter Two and Gods Favor
ite, for which he received a Tony nomina
tion. He also won three Clio Awards for 
commercials.
The six-character play is set in a West
chester County community in the midforties. According to Shapiro, the shows 
main character loses his job, and he and his 
wife must learn to cope with the resulting 
loss of status.
Shapiro, who is primarily a director, won 
aTony Award and Drama Desk Award with 
John Guare for the libretto for the musical 
version of Two Gentlemen of Verona.ush experiments with 
race Under Pressure
By LESLEY BRUNKER
partem Staffwriter
There is a difference between being in a 
and and being a musician. Listen to any 
no AC/DC albums or Van Halen albums 
! even Monkees albums  except perhaps 
cosmetically, they dont change 
much. They are all fine bands 
playing fine music, but its the 
same music over and over again. 
No band can expect to survive by simply 
(ehashing. First, the fans are not going to 
ep buying the same product. But more 
nportantly, the music is going to begin to 
ound trite the third or fourth time around 
the members will become quite tired of 
And they have neither grown nor 
atured in the process.
Rush has done an excellent job of staying 
|ff this carousel. After the release of Signals, 
assist/vocalist Geddy Lee noted that while 
my followers would prefer another epic 
1112, the band was ready to move on and 
oncentrate on songwriting.
Though I respect Lee, Lifeson, and Peart 
Dr maintaining their musical integrity, 
pnowledging their accomplishment 
esnt mean I like their newest album,
irace under Pressure.
j Grace starts out on a poor note with Dis[nt Early Warning, which begins in a
minimalist tone (it sounds hauntingly like a 
Police tune) then quickly gears into heavy 
duty techno whiz music. There is far too 
much going on, most of which sounds 
added for its own sake rather than for value. 
And the lyrics carry the usual pretentions 
(what would Rush lyrics be without preten
tions?)  Who can face the knowledge 
/that the truth is not the truth?
While most of the album suffers from 
acute over-production and misses its seem
ingly minimalist goal, The Body Electric 
is very stripped down and works well. The 
synthesizer is a bit overemphasized, but most 
of the parts are distinct and well defined. 
Lifesons solo is backed by Lees mobile 
bass, the lyrics are consistent and tight, and 
you get the idea this could have come form 
any one of a number of Rush albums.
In Kid Gloves, the focus on structured 
song writing is evident. The lyrics are a bit 
over written, but the music is flawlessly built 
around them. Lifesons solo is the best of the 
few he does on the album and shows he has 
continued to grow as a guitarist though role 
has changed considerably.
In fact, all three members now have syn
thesizers tagged to their musical credits. 
Neil Peart has experimented with electronic 
percussion, and the now smooth-voiced Lee 
is his usual jack-of-all-trades. Unfortucontinued on page 11
1asquarelli honored on Sunday 
Chamber Orchestra Concert
The Camegie-Mellon University 
Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of 
Werner Torkanowsky, will present the final 
program in its 1983-84 subscription series at 
8 p.m., Sunday, May 6 at Carnegie Music 
Hall in Oakland and again at 8 p.m., Mon
day, May 7 in the Alumni Concert Hall on 
the CMU campus.
Featured on the program will be the pre
miere of the Concerto for Trumpet and 
Orchestra by CMU faculty member Byron 
McCullon. The work was commissioned by 
the students of Anthony Pasquarelli in 
honor of his 25th year as a member of the 
trumpet faculty at CMU. Mark Schrello, a 
CMU alumnus and former student of Pas
quarelli, will give the initial performance. 
Schrello is principal trumpet for the Swed
ish Radio Orchestra in Stockholm.
The program will also include Rossinis 
Overture to La Gassa Ladra, Ravels 
Introduction and Allegro and Bachs 
Concerto for Two Violins, Strings and 
Continuo. Soloists in the Bach Concerto 
_______________ will be Torkanowsky and Kypros Markou,
ny Pasquarelli* teacher of trumpet for both CMU faculty.
I'arc, is honored by composition. For ticket information, call the CMU box
office at 578-2407................
The music world was saddened by the loss of jazz great Count Basie last Thursday. There 
will be a tribute held by Mercy Hospital at Heinz Hall May 2, marking Basies 80th birthday,
Currin, Kuharic and Tin Nyo
Gallery runs final show
By KEITH RECKER
Special to The Tartan
The final Forbes Gallery show of the year 
features the paintings of John Currin, 
Elaine Tin Nyo and Katherine Kuharic. 
The style of each painter differs distincdy 
and the juxtaposition of their work makes 
for an excidng show. They will celebrate 
their opening tonight from 7 to 9 p.m.
Elaine Tin Nyo works mainly with small 
still Jifes. Tin Nyo includes in the show 
some of her collage poems, as well. The 
smallness of Tin Nyos paintings  they are 
at most only a few inches in length and 
width  invites special attention. The 
objects depicted in the pieces are without 
narrative quality, without a story and a set 
or words to go along with the composition. 
The focus of the work goes, rather, to the 
technique with which each object, each 
group of shapes, is painted. The center erf 
the work is the beauty with which each 
object is presented. In a small painting titled 
Still Life, Tin Nyo paints a few cups. 
Some delicate touches of color and an alomost tender sense of composition bring the 
shapes of the cups into attention and make 
for a fresh look, a rediscovery, of something 
considered commonplace.
John Currins paintings are generally 
large. They are rooted in formalism and 
abstraction. Currin, however, like Tin Nyo, 
stays away from a narrative quality. I try to 
make the painting confront you, to set up 
the painting in its own world. Currins 
abstractions force the viewer to take a paint
ing for what it is  a painting  and not a 
piece of reality that occurs everyday. The
texture of and feel of Currins paintings are 
controlled by the process of painting. The 
sometimes rough, grooved surfaces come 
from the reworking and refining of a 
painted surface. The lines and shapes are 
organic and spring from the act of painting 
itself. In a composition called Abstract 
Painting, Currin uses larger scale forms, 
lines and texture etched into the surface and 
carefully orchestrated colors to capture the 
viewer and, in an attempt to achieve his 
most important goal, establish an emo
tional experience. The painting invites care
ful consideration with its many levels of 
visual craft.
Katharine Kuhanc strives to achieve a 
narrative quality. She also works toward a 
quirky, strange realism. The intent of the 
narrative and realistic qualities of Kuharics 
work is ironic and, as Kuharic says, Not 
sincere or honest. Kuharics imagery is 
lifted from the visual experiences of books 
and compiled and changed into painting. 
The landscapes Kuharic will show are gran
diose and melodramatic, and faithful to 
both realism and sarcasm, in their depiction 
of impossibly shaped mountains, their 
glowing and vibrant clouds and their shin
ing trees. The paintings ask questions about 
where effect and orchestration in painting 
end and truth begins. Theyre almost a plea 
in myself for sincerity  for people to look 
at whats considered moving and re
examine it, says Kuharic.
Tin Nyo, Currin and Kuharic will be at 
the Forbes Gallery until May. Gallery hours 
are Wednesday-Friday, 11:00 to 6:00 and Sat
urday, noon to 5:00.
Youth Orchestra holds concert
As part of the Pittsburgh Symphonys 
city-wide American Festival celebration, 
Michael Lankester will conduct the Pitts
burgh Youth Symphony Orchestra in a free 
concert on Sunday, May 6 at 8:00 p.m. at 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall in Oak
land. The concert will feature popular favor
ite works by Copland, Gershwin, Barber, 
Gould, and Bennett.
Violinist George Stelluto, a winner of the 
orchestras Young Artists Competition, will
perform the first movement of the Barber 
Violin Concerto. Lincoln Maazel will be 
featured in the stirring narration of 
Coplands Lincoln Portrait. The TaylorAllderdice Choir will join the Pittsburgh 
Youth Symphony in Bennetts Commemo
ration Symphony, a tribute to the beloved 
music of Pittsburghs Stephen Collins 
Foster.
Free tickets are available through news
paper coupons. For further information, 
call 392-4872.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMay 1, 1984
Native mime Dan Kamin returns to Playhouse
Pittsburgher Dan Kamin brings his 
acclaimed show back to the Pittsburgh Play
house Theatre Center, Oakland May 9 
through 13.
Dan Kamin is familiar to Pittsburghers 
through his many appearances on local tele
vision shows and his performances for thou
sands of children in public schools. He has 
been honored in Pennsylvania with invita
tions to perform at Governor Thornburghs 
inauguration and for the State Theatre
Association.
With his continuous touring, film and 
television appearances, he has made enough 
of a mark to be invited to perform at the 
American Embassy in London and New 
Yorks Lincoln Center. Hes also made four 
specials for the PBS network. As if all this 
performing activity werent enough, he 
recently wrote a book on his idol, Charlie 
Chaplin. The book, Charlie Chaplins OneMan Show, is due out this June and will
feature a preface by Marcel Marceau.
With all his travels, Kamin says he enjoys 
the opportunity to perform in Pittsburgh: 
Performing in my home town is very spe
cial for me. Its the only chance I get to show 
my work to those friends and others who 
have followed my career from the begin
ning. And the Pittsburgh Playhouse is one 
of my favorite theatres anywhere. Its a per
fect, intimate setting for mime.
Kamin received his mime training under
Polar Bears just a part 
of Shrine Circus' delight
An astonishing display of the most dan
gerous of all carnivores, polar bears, will be 
showcased at the Shrine Circus May 16-20 at 
the Pittsburgh Civic Arena. Lovely 
Jeannette Rix and her family will thrill 
audiences with a performance that is consi
dered to be the largest mixed bear act in the 
world.
Encased inside a giant steel arena, 
Jeannette will guide four huge white polar 
bears, six Syrian bears and two European 
brown bears through paces that will awe 
and delight young and old audiences alike.
Jeannette Rix and the Rix familys per
forming bears are a direct result of a concept 
that began more than 45 years ago with 
Jeannettes father, Albert Rix. Albert spent 
his youth as an apprentice at the renowned 
Hagen beck Zoological Garden and Animal 
Training Center in Hamburg, Germany. 
There he became experienced in handling 
lions, tigers, bears and seals. This led him to 
present wild animal acts in major circuses 
throughout Europe.
In 1950, Albert Rix opened the Ringling 
Bros. Circus in Madison Square Garden 
with a bear act appropriately billed as the
only feature of its kind on the face of the 
earth. Alberts bear act was the first to be 
presented in an arena for American audien
ces. For several years after, Alberts bears 
replaced traditional circus cat acts in addi
tion to serving as some of the exotic back
ground material for Cecil B. DeMilles film, 
The Greatest Show On Earth.
Now Jeannette Rix carries on her fathers 
tradition in the Shrine Circus to appear at 
the Pittsburgh Civic Arena for eight perfor
mances May 16-20. Reserved seats are $6. 
General admission is $4. Group rates are 
available for selected shows by calling 642- 
2067. Tickets are available at all Choice 
Seat Locations including Kaufmanns; 
selected Record Outlet stores; Gimbels, 
downtown; and Civic Arena Gate #1.
Proceeds from the Shrine Circus will 
benefit 19 Shriners Hospitals for Crippled 
Children and three Bum Institutes spon
sored by the Shrine of North America, 
stated Eugene F. Connelly, Circus Chair
man. Shriners Hospitals have helped more 
than 281,000 children. The hospitals are 
funded by Shrine fundraising events and 
other donations.
A.B. Friday Films Presents
FREE OUTDOOR FILM
funded by Student Activities Fee
In case of rain film will be shown in the Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1984The TartanPage 11
re-College program to instruct on auditioning
Ian unusual move, the Drama Departat Camegie-Mellon University will 
high school students who wish to 
lion for the department or for drama 
ients at other schools during its sixf summer program for high school stu, from June 25 to August 3.
During the last two weeks of the program, 
reports David Ball, program coordinator, 
the faculty will prepare students on how to 
select material and how to present it.
No place offers high school students pro
fessional audition coaching, Ball says.
Everybody in the world teaches people.
Were helping them to get into the places 
that teach them. If they choose, they can 
audition for our department just by telling 
us they want to.
The pre-college program also gives the 
faculty a chance to see students do more than 
a quicky twoor three-minute audition, he
says. Theyre better able to judge the stu
dents abilities.
For further information, contact the 
Summer Studies Office, Camegie-Mellon 
University, 5000 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213.
\alian Baroque music ends 
ason for ",Early Music"
, Pittsburgh Early Music Group pres[ts final concert of the spring season on 
ay evening, May 6, 1984, at 7:30 p.m. 
la program of Italian Baroque music at 
First Baptist Church of Pittsburgh, 
Bellefield Streets, Oakland. Perng on historical instruments of the 
QUe period, the ensemble consists of 
rgh residents Larry Keifer, recorder 
| oboe; Barbara Coeyman, viola da 
and viola; Aimee Beggs, cello; and 
Barrick, harpsichord. Joining the 
nble for this concert are violinists Olga 
ow and Frederick Fehleisen of New
I City.
: featured soloist will be countertenor
Drew Minter of New York. Mr. Minter is a 
member of Pomerium Musices, performs 
extensively in concerts of early music in the 
United States and Europe, and has recently 
appeared as soloist in Pittsburgh with the 
Oratorio Society in Handels Messiah.
The concert includes concertos by Anto
nio Vivaldi and Tommasso Albinoni, sona
tas by Domenico Scarlatti, a Vivaldi cantata, 
and songs by Guilio Cacdni. The First Bap
tist Church, built by Bertram Goodhue in 
1912, is a Pittsburgh Historic Landmark.
Suggested contribution at the door is $4.00, 
$2.00 for students and senior citizens. For 
more information call 661-3624 or 421-7943.
ush's new album inventive
I from page 9
, this leads to the albums greatest flaw 
aved handed use of electronics. They 
luperfluoutf at best in The Enemy 
|in (the long-awaited fear - part 1 
doesnt live up to The Weapon - 
art 2 which didnt live up to Witch 
-fear, part 3) and taint an otherwise 
ffort in The Body Electric. 
of the more creative numbers is 
ween the Wheels. The beginning is
synth over chords laced with abstract guitar. 
The piece explores several rhythms and vari
ations, and Peart makes a stab at pushing 
over some of his least-hidden pretentions - 
Another war - another wasteland - And 
another last generation.
Grace under Pressure really isnt a bad 
album, and its hard to criticize Rushs 
unfailing ability to give 100% to every new 
twist. Still, Ill take Caress of Steel first any 
day.
STUDENT SENATE SPRING BUDGET
Activits Board
Subsidy
$114,325
Activities Fair1,945
Astronomy Club430
Baseball Club3,455
Class Club120
Computer Club55
Explorer's Club805
Forbes Gallery4,600
Hockey Club8,835
Kiltie Band1,915
Metals Club265
SARC'1,500
Student Corporation1,455
Student Senate5,550
The Tartan11,670
Thistle10,565
Volleyball695
WRCT27,085
TOTAL$195,270
Detailed budgets of all funded organizations can be viewed in the Senate 
office, Skibo 59.
Dont let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest. . . Now try the BEST!
**&********CAPRIPIZZA
***********
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3 - 2 a.m.
ity,P 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
This price for lunch/dinner
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland
$2.47 + tax
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
Eat in or order out.
tele: 681 -2202, 2203

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT 88.3 FM
CMUs Student-Owned and Operated Campus Radio Station 
Is Now Conducting a
CAMPUS LISTENER SURVEY
PLEASE TAKE TIME TO COMPLETE THE SURVEY AND 
RETURN IT VIA CAMPUS MAIL
On-Campus students will automatically receive copies in their 
mailboxes. Others may pick up the survey at the Skibo Info Desk, in 
Hunt Library, or at the WRCT studio (Skibo 48) later this week.
SUMMER STAFF MEETING
Tonight at 8 p.m. in Skibo 45
All CMU students interested in joining the WRCT 
staff for the summer are invited. Current staff 
members planning to be around over the summer 
should also attend.
Tune in all summer for a wide variety of 
alternative music on WRCT
100 WATTS STEREO
WRCT w funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
E FRESHMANby Mark Levine
H, flMMS
I ONCI i
mi ByPA U w
I GOT FUlt ^tsWiY
MENCIUS... (\N0 
Kw i*TW\ Houik Vofk 
VTtWllNb...
[PT. KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley

---------------------------------------------------

St in <bo
posters -porvoor jame
update
.>v/V
5 not 
-too la-te
to order
ts fv
fvnde by SKienft F*

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
liscellaneous
on the Gateway Clipper last Saturday night, 
watch, big and heavy, automatic, 
ward. Call Maria x4461.
>taj uT 220 terminal for sale. Call Bruce at
3813-
burgh Resume Bank: Computerized prepan and storage service. Micro Training Speists 521-6300.
Honda Civic 4-door, silver, air, AM-FM 
% excellent condition, 18,000 miles, $4900.
sale: Car-top luggage carrier. Fits most cars, 
plenty of padding. $150. Mark, 578-3962 or
6628.
sale: 1 single bed Simmons premium x-firm 
bookcase makings $5, call Leslie 362-
1/578-2392.
mens 26" 10-speed: Must sell; $50 good condineeds some love 8c attention; PRICE 
;0TIABLE, call Jo at x4037.
ng Word Processing. Theses, term papers, 
luscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
Turabian manuals strongly followed). Speizes in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour
ice 371-3657.
it-a-Spot  Don't drag it home to Mom  
: it for reasonable rates, month to momh 
15 min. from downtown. Open daily to 6 
i, weekends to 4 p.m.  comer Rt. 885 and 
anon Church Road next to County Airport 
of Century III Mall. 655-3610.
ter in Social Work (MSW); specializations in 
ily therapy, occupational social work, manment; health; dual degrees: MSW/JD, 
iV/MA in Architecture, MSW/MBA. Finanaid available; write: George Warren Brown 
ten of Social Work, Washington University, 
ipus Box 1196 G, St. Louis, MO 63130.
!E HAIRCUTS FOR MEN! Male models for May 16 and May 23. Philip Pelusi cationals. 9 a.m. - 12 noon. Call 261-6550 for
ointments.
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
t-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for the 
campus community. Call the T-Shirt Company 
at 578-3535 and speak to John for details.
We have the lowest airfares to Europe and across 
America! For free color brochure, write to: Cam
pus Travel  Box 11387 St. Louis, MO 63105.
Adoption: Loving, well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col
lect. (617)358-6354.
The Trucking Company; We move it like its ours 
and we save you money; local and long distance; 
363-1245.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes,cover letters,etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
INPO (Instititue of Nuclear Power Operations) 
has recently awarded a fellowship in the field of 
health physics to the University of Pittsburgh 
Department of Radiation Health for the 1984-85 
academic year. The fellowship will be offered to a 
masters level student who intends to pursue a 
career in power generation health physics. It will 
provide the student with a stipend of $6,500 with 
an additional $2,500 educational allowance to 
help defray the cost of tuition and fees. For 
further information contact: Dr. Joseph A. Wat
son, A512 Crabtree Hall, Graduate School of 
Public Health, University of Pittsburgh, Pitts
burgh, PA 15261, (412) 624-2732.
SOCIAL CHANGE JOBS. Professional posi
tions with the Public Interest Groups (PIRGS) 
available nationwide. Work on environmental/social justice/arms control issues. Send resume 
to: Janet Domenitz /PIRGS 737 Temple Place 
/Boston , MA 02111, (617) 423-1796. Summer 
jobs also.
Excellent student summer job. Night auditor 
wanted for summer resort hotel at Lake Chautaugua near Buffalo, NY. Bookkeeping background 
necessary, good salary, from June 20 to August 
30. Write P.O. Box 9043, Pgh, PA 15224.
Secretary/Word Processor wanted. Position 
available immediately with new, rapidly grow
ing local computer-aided design firm headed by 
CMU faculty. Full time position with solid expe
rience in text editing, word processing and other 
secretarial functions. Must be completely trust
worthy with strong, verifiable personal and work 
references. Experience with Emacs and Scribe 
preferred. Excellent opportunity for career devel
opment as company continues to grow. Benefits 
include stock options. Send resumes to: M. 
Myers, c/o Formtek, 5001 Baum Blvd. Pgh. PA 
15213.
housing
jobs
Need cash? Earn $500+ each school year, 2-4 (flex
ible) hours per week placing and filling posters 
on campus. Serious workers only; we give recom
mendations. Call now for summer and next fall. 
1-800-243-6679.
Counselor positions available at childrens camp 
for summer 1984. Need male to direct archery, 
riflery, computers, and athletics. For informati
on,contact Jim Doschbach  7911 Union St., 
Pgh., PA 15218 or call 731-3742 evenings or 
weekends.
Pitt graduate relocating to San Francisco in need 
of female roommate for beginning June. In sim
ilar situation? Call 837-6802.
Roommate needed to share 2-bdrm. apt. over the 
summer. Excellent location near cleaners, stores, 
etc. 10 min. walk to campus. Rent negotiable. 
682-7133.
Summer sublet: Large 4 bedroom apt. Com
pletely furnished. Good location. Security bldg. 
Laundry facilities. 15 min. walk to CMU. Park
ing in rear. Close to Giant Eagle. Rent negotia
ble. Call 681-2130 or 461-1137.
Apt for rent: 2 bdrms, $350 + elec, Shadyside, 
May-May lease or just summer; unfurnished. 
Call Leslie 362-3871/578-2392.
BURROUGHSASG
ADVANCED SYSTEMS GROUP
Computer Science BS / MS 
Spring & Summer Grads
WHAT
The information systems industry is evolving at an astonishing pace. To meet the 
challenge, Burroughs has established a new Advanced Systems Group.
The purpose is to develop methods to interconnect all of our computer products 
and to open new doors to discovery in advanced networking. Ultimately, Burroughs will 
set the standards for the workplace of the future.
WHY
Design and implementation teams will work on diversified assignments designing 
and implementing state-of-the-art local area network systems, integrating voice and 
data, and utilizing new and existing hardware and software to create a complete 
distributed processing system.
The projects are challenging. The pace is fast and stimulating. The rewards are great.
WHEN
Now. Were creating a product family for the future. We need Spring 84 
graduates with career interests in the following categories:  Computer Science  
Computer Engineering  Electrical Engineering  Data Communications 
Engineering  Local Area Networks  Compilers  Operating Systems 
 Language Development  Program Generators  Data Base  Generation of 
technical documentation, both off-line (human written) and on-line (machine 
generated/interactive).
WHERE
Our beautiful new facility in Boulder,Colorado is just minutes from the excitement of 
the city life in Denver. You can ski and hike the Rocky Mountains while enjoying peace 
and spacious living. The University of Colorado, Boulder offers advanced degree 
training opportunity, and with our liberal tuition benefits, you can continue forward with 
your academic plans.
If you meet the qualifications (3.0 GPA and have a desire to learn) and you accept 
thP rhallenoe. we are on campus TODAY. Mav 1. For an interview, see us at vour 
career placement office, or send your resume to: Jim Krug, Manager of Human 
Resources, Burroughs Corporation, Advanced Systems Group, 6655 Lookout Road, 
Boulder, Colorado 80301.
An Affirmative Action Employer M/F.
rsurrougns
THE QUESTION ISNT WHOS BIGGER.ITS WHOS BETTER
Female roommate needed  or sublet the whole 
apartment  large apartment, accommodates 
two comfortably. First floor. Furnished, built-in 
bookshelves, AC, wall-to-wall. South Oakland, 
rent negotiable, all utilities included. 682-7083.
Female roommate wanted; May 1-June 1 for a 
year. Squirrel Hill; remodeled house; free 
laundry; $105 per month + electric; call Sandy 
422-0235.
Looking for: furnished, equipt. apartment to 
sublet for mid-June to mid-August. Would 
prefer: air conditioning, telephone, kitchen, and 
location close to downtown Pgh. Call the Civic 
Light Opera at 281-3973.
Subletting for Summer Large, 2-bedroom fur
nished apartment, from May 1. Oakland area 
$360, utilities included. 655-1872 after 5 p.m.
Sublet  fall option  starting May 11. $325 
including all utilities. 1 bedroom  for one or 
two  located on Centre Ave. Phone 621-0153.
Summer sublet; large, furnished 2 bedroom apt.; 
includes beermeister!!! Rent negotiable. Call 681- 
9812.
Rooms for rent for summer period beginning 
June 1 and ending August 15. Maid and linen 
service provided. Only $55 per week. Phone 682- 
7010.
Summer rooms for rent; cool, quiet, clean, close, 
carpeted; fall options. $120-165. 682-1378, please 
leave message, hope you like Humphrey Bogart.
Summer sublet!!! $50 + util, single private. Big 
room. Full kitchen, living 8c bath. Must rent, 
priced accordingly. 15 minutes. Call Dave at 683- 
1687.
Summer sublet: 1 bdrm plus livingroom, dinin
groom, kitchen, balcony 8c and laundry' (base
ment); Shadyside, $172.50 + elec + cooking gas. 
Call Mike 362-3871 or 578-2392.
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTERan out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
AUegheny 
Vomen's I 
Center_
Me<fical Center East Bldg. 
211 North Whitfield St 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
PHONI 412/362-2920
Alone & Pregnant?
Need Help?
Fr Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friand caM
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0643
Beaver County 843-0606
Mon Vaftey 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
Pregnant? Call AT A
Lets talk about your options
Caring and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494 
Alternatives to Abortion, Inc.
a non profit organization
VI) Testing
Affordable & Confidential 
EVENING Hour Service 
(formerly the Pgh. Free C 
call 661-5424
:ic)

---------------------------------------------------

4740 Baum Blvd, OaklandPgh, PA.
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
PEPPERONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ' ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACON GREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
12"16"Cheese................. $4,29 ............... $6.08
1 Item................. 4.98
2 Items .............. 5.753 Items----...... 6.524 Items............... 7.29
5 Items .............. 8.06
6.98
7.95
8.92
9.89
10.86
FOUR STAR PIZZA 5 ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF 4DELUXE PEPPERONI, SAUSAGE. MUSHROOMS, ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERS|
SORRY NO SUBSTITUTIONS
FREE DELIVERY* WITHIN 30 MIN.
10 MIN. PICK-UP
STORE HOURS:
SUN-THURS 11 AM-2 AM 
FRI & SAT 11 AM-3 AM
*WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA 
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.
VALUABLE COUPONS
r
r tm coupon mb  mm mm coupon  mb   coupon  bh  mm coupon m
rawsni *  iroww m  
 gtx An  - " ^ 11  - "a* ^ t. /jOFF J J BEEB$ OFF3 _
ON ANY 16" PIZZA " B ON ANY 16" PIZZA J !
* ^ rare  A? m lOC
I
* ANY 16 DELUXE "BI
pcmaoNi. sausagc muvmoomv
ONIONS, ANO G8ECN PtPPOK  
4NIJ KKfe FREE I* O CUPS  
OF MCE
I NAME AOOSESS : %
 ONE COUPON PER PIZZA 
I
  UWt ntK Kt/ZA ftSV phot byMt M iy
COUPON EXPMES RfGHT TOLIMtl COUPON EXPIRES **  BIGHT TO UMlT COUPON FxPiRI
M OUR DELIVERY AREA  M OU#DEUVRYAEA  hm mr coupon wm mm mm mm coupon  wm mm rm
AND FOUR FUSE 1 02 CUTS
OF (Oki
_____ ADDRESS
ONE COUPON PER PIZZA WE RESERVE THE
CMUTMravTelaO fi f lecWH HM AYEYNOUOEII
ANO FOUR FREE 16 OZ CUPS
OF COKE 
119BB$ Toff.II IANY PIZZA j
II
AND TWO FREE Ifi OZ PS
OF COKE
NAME
Rno CMUTMr Tal Teppt 
CMUTMravTelaO
ADDRESSngEo z twwlaOO s
ONE COUPON PER PIZZA ' WE RESERVE THE
COUPONEXPIRES RIGHT TO UMIT CUUPON tXFIRI
OUR DELIVERY AREA  coupon  mm mm mm coupon
WE RESEROIH*I I MilI
rt ; 
RlGHTTOl'MlT g 
OUR DELIVERS Ai* 

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
eckley's teams win 100th straight dual meet
enior distance men graduate; a dynasty ends
y DUANE GALBI
jrtan StaffivriterFour years ago track and cross country ch Gary Meckley had a recruiting year 
e those usually reserved only for the big 
Division I schools like Penn State, 
ris Shafer, Mike Short, and John Wessels, who had run sub 9:20 two-miles joined 
b Dusch and Art Muzik, who were also om the Pittsburgh area, along with Kevin 
rewer and John McGowan in attending 
megie-Mellon. The effect has been 
vasta ting.
In the words of Chris Shafer, We (the 
m) dont lose too often ... we win and we 
it fairly well. In fact, since they came 
years ago the track and cross country 
has not lost a dual meet or a PAC 
ampionship Meet. Fifty-four straight 
ual meet wins and 30 straight track victoes can be directly attributed to their perforThe cross country team has gone to 
every year and two years ago fin
as the sixth best Division III team in 
erica. John Wessels and Mike Short both 
thieved All-American status in cross counthat fall, and Mike Short has gone On to 
the onlv two sport All-American at
CMU by qualifying for All-American 
honors in the 1500 meter run.
The success the team has achieved is not 
just a result of the outstanding performan
ces of Mike Short and John Wessels, for that 
would not be enough. It is their perfor
mance along with the depth provided by the 
rest of the freshmen seven, the Others as 
they have been nicknamed by the Tartan 
headlines, that has enabled the Tartans to 
win.
The distance squad has evolved over the 
four years from a group characterized by the 
torrid competition to establish a position on 
the team to a more laid back group where 
intrasquad competition plays a small role. 
Were all friends and we have a grand 
time, is how John McGowan describes the 
squad now. The experience of running 
against the Tartans though, has been any
thing but enjoyable for those teams facing 
what must be the most talented distance 
squad in the history of the PAC.
In the last four years new recruits have 
been a factor for a season or two, but in 
general they havent been able to last. The 
strength of the squad of senior distance 
runners lies not just in the natural talent
they were endowed with, but also with their 
ability to last. Four years ago they started off 
immediately as winners and for the last four 
years they have overcome academic pres
sures, injuries, and other annoyances asso
ciated with running at CM to remain 
virtual foreigners to the agony of defeat.
After running nearly eleven years, John 
Wessels is no stranger to the rigors of compe
tition and the spoils of victory. Four years 
ago Wessels came to CMU with dreams of 
running in cross country Nationals and 
challenging the PAC establishment in the 
10,000 meters, coexisting with his academic 
concerns. As a freshman, running ranked 
alongside with school work as top priority 
in Wessels day. The All-American status 
has come and Wessels has become the estab
lishment in the 10,000; however, running 
aspirations have definitely taken a back seat. 
Although proceeding through SUPAs 3-2 
masters plan has not lessened Wessels com
petitive spirit, it has necessitated a change in 
how he balances academics and athletics. 
Competitive running has had to give to an 
increasingly hectic work load.
When Wessels runs track, the 10,000 
meter run has been his event. Twenty-five 
times around a track on a hot day under race 
conditions might not be most peoples idea 
of a fun spring day, but Wessels seems to 
thrive on it. In the 10,000, physical condi
tioning is paramount, but also to Wessels,Its a mind game. You have to be able to 
put your mind in neutral for 24 laps. Eve
rybody enjoys winning; however, for Wes
sels the satisfaction of overcoming his 
opponent in the game of mental concentra
tion rivals the satisfaction of crossing the 
finishing line first.
It is on the cross-country course, though, 
where Wessels feels more in his element. 
The longer distance, the varied terrain with 
hilly challenges, and the aesthetic appeal of 
a cross-country course snaking through the 
woods in autumn appeal to him and are the 
scenes of his finest achievement. The satis
faction of cross-country and road races more 
than track is why Wessels has chosen to 
make running my fret1 time. According to 
Wessels, even longer distance running like 
the marathon lies in his future. With three 
marathons already behind him, running 
will definitely not end at graduation for
Wessels.
Simply put, Mike Short is the best middle 
distance runner ever to attend CamegieMellon. He is one of the fastest 440 runners 
on the team, the fastest 880 runner with a 
personal best of 1:52, and with a personal 
best of 4:04 the best mile runner of any 
school large or small in the Western Pen
nsylvania region. In 1938 the world record 
for the mile was equivalent to Shorts per
sonal best,and it wasnt until only thirty 
years ago that a fellow Bio-Chemistry' stu
dent, Roger Bannister, broke the 4:00 barrier 
which is a mere four seconds faster than 
Shorts best.
Camegie-Mellon is definitely not the 
place to pursue the four minute barrier, but 
Short, who likes to speak like Bartletts Fam
ous Quotations, came to CMU for the 
blend of academics and athletics, realizing 
all along that you cant eat your running 
shoes. However, looking back at his run
ning career, Short cant help but wonder 
what if and long for the missed opportun
ity to run for a Division I track power house. 
Cheering crowds consisting of more than 
the few spectarors who have come to root for 
the other team, better facilities, and better 
competition in an environment more tuned 
to athletics could well have provided the 
four seconds that separate Short from the 
achievement of the select few  the sub-four 
minute mile.
On any other PAC team, Chris Shafer 
would be the dominant middle distance 
runner, but at Camegie-Mellon he has been 
running under the shadow of Mike Short. 
To Shafer, though, this is not a drawback, 
for he doesnt run as much for th sake of 
running as for the thrill of competition. 
Shafer enjoys and thrives on the competi
tion running offers, but running also helps 
him in other ways. The exercise it provides 
limits the effect of his other favorite hobby, 
and it functions as a fun way to get back 
home, for Shafer yearly runs the approxi
mately twenty miles back to his home in 
Apollo.
Athletically, CMU was not all Shafer had 
hoped for, but academically he feels that if 
he had gone to more of a running school he 
definitely wouldnt have received the same 
caliber education in information processcontinued on page 18
photo by Duane Galbi
V Sulecki finishes the 800 meter dash ahead of Robert Bowie for the victory.
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffivriter
100 straight wins. Thats an amazing 
streak, and one that requires a total team 
effort. Well, Saturday afternoon on their 
home track, CMU won their one-hundredth 
straight meet in cross-country track. The 
Spikers trampled Hiram by a 106-38 score 
and beat Robert Morris 112.5-22.5. Case 
Western Reserve didnt show up for the 
duel. Next weekend the Tartans will go to 
the Presidents Athletic Conference 
Championships.
As the score indicates, CMU dominated 
the meet the whole way through. Winning 
events for CMU were Joe Honse in the 
javelin and the pole vault, Crain in the shotput and discus, Marchiona in the 120 and 
440 yard hurdles, Sulecki in the mile run, 
Jim Rodgers in the triple jump, Galvin in 
the 100 yard dash, Glaspy in the high jump, 
and Wessels in the three-mile run. The 
CMU mile-relay team was also victorious.
Coach Gary Meckley commented on this 
milestone victory, I never entered a single 
event or scored a single point during all 
these victories. These guys deserve all the 
credit. They are so competitive. Some peo
ple may have more natural ability, but these 
guys have a great desire to win.artan sprinters batde it out with Robert Morris and Hiram in Saturdays meet.
Seniors
phoio by Mike Pilewski

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMay 1, 1984
Four years in the lives of the distance runners
By DAVE LAFYATIS who surprised everyone by winning All-By DAVE LAFYATIS 
and DUANE GALBI
Tartan Staffwriters
The seven came out of high school and 
into Camegie-Mellons running program 
in the fall of 1980. Four came from 
Pittsburgh-area high schools, with Chris 
Shafer coming from Apollo Ridge High, 
Mike Short from Central Catholic, John 
Wessels from Mt. Lebanon and Art Muzik 
from Upper St. Clair. They came to a team 
that was defending Presidents Athletic Con
ference (PAC) cross-country, and was look
ing to build a reputation as a Division III 
powerhouse.
The captain of the team in 1980 was a 
senior named Dario Donatelli. Donatelli is 
now a distance coach for the track team, but 
back then he provided crucial leadership for 
this young crew of freshmen.
The first meet ever for these seven fresh
men came against Geneva at Schenley Park, 
and it set the pattern for how all the meets 
would go for the next four years. CMU won 
easily, and Bob Dusch, Kevin Brewer, Wes
sels and Short tied for first along with 
Donatelli.
The rest of the dual-meet season went 
smoothly, with the Tartans habitually 
crushing their opponents. The team headed 
into the PAC Championships, expecting a 
close race and wondering how their fresh
men hotshots would stand up to the pres
sure of a big meet. The answer came 
resoundingly as the Tartans obliterated the 
field and set a new record for the meet by 
scoring just 19 points. Five of the runners 
were freshmen, with Wessels in first, Short 
in 3rd, Brewer in 4th, McGowan in 9th and 
Dusch in 12th.
Now it was off to the Eastern Regional* 
and an attempt to qualify CMU for its first 
ever trip to the National Championships. 
The Tartans earned their trip to the Nation
als by winning the Regionals. Wessels led 
the freshmen charge by coming in 3rd, fol
lowed by Short in 11th, Brewer in 16th, and 
Dusch in 34th.
At the National Championships, the Tar
tans battled a sloppy course and tough com
petition and ended up with a 12th place 
overall. Wessels was the top freshman Tar
tan with a 53rd place finish.
After this big cross-country season, the 
track season came up in the spring. Only 
one of the seven had a big impact in track in 
their freshman year. This was Mike Short,
who surprised everyone by winning AllAmerican honors, and helping die Tartans 
to an undefeated season and the PAC 
championship.
This theme of being undefeated and win
ning the PAC championship was to become 
very repetitive . . .
Now as sophomores, the seven really 
began coming into their own. CMU 
trounced all opposition on their way to an
11-0 season in Cross Country. In the PAC 
meet, John Wessels and Mike Short tied for 
first place, followed by Kevin Brewer in 7 th.
Heading to the Eastern Regionals, CMU 
was optimistic, and this proved to be wellfounded, as the Tartans came in 2nd at the 
Regionals and headed to the Nationals. 
Wessels, Short, Brewer and McGowan all 
were bunched between 10th and 20th place 
for the Tartans. They moved on to the 
National Championships in Kenosha, 
Wisconsin.
When they reached Kenosha, CMU found 
snow, and plenty of it. The Tartans per
formed superbly, however, and finished up 
in 6th place nationally. Mike Short won the 
team race and John Wessels came in 8th. 
This gave them both All-American honors. 
Kevin Brewer and John McGowan placed 
41st* and 111th respectively. This meet 
marked the first time in CMUs history that 
two performers had ever won All-American 
in the same sport.
Track season opened with the PAC relays. 
Brewer, Dusch, McGowan, Short, Wessels, 
Muzik, and Shafer all had big performances 
for CMU. Shafer especially shined in the 
distance medley and the 6400 meter relay. 
The track season went on, with CMU domi
nating conference opponents. Art Muzik 
especially came on in the 800 meter run. The 
PAC Championship saw CMU winning 
the conference again. Key performances 
were Kevin Brewer 2nd in the 10,000, Mike 
Short 2nd in the 800 and 1500, John Wessels 
3rd in the 5,000 and 1st in the 10,000 and 
Mike Shafer 2nd in the 5,000.
As juniors the Tartan distance squad once 
again finished the cross-country season 
unchallenged and undefeated by any of their 
PAC rivals. In the PAC Champsionship 
meet the Tartans were awesome. John Wes
sels was first, followed by Mike Short in 
second, Kevin Brewer in third, Chris Shafer 
in fourth, and John McGowan in 6th as the 
squad swept for an unbelievably low total of 
17 points. This established a new record. If
r jM&
photo by Mike Pile
Five of the seven seniors:(l. to r.) Kevin Brewer John McGowan, Bob Dusch, Chris Sh 
and John Wessels.
the PAC meet had been a dual meet with the 
combined efforts of the rest of the PAC 
teams versus the CMU distance squad,
CMU would have won easily.
Nationals at Fredonia was a much differ
ent race. John Wessels came down with the 
flu and had to miss the meet, and the rest of 
the Tartans were weakened by running 
three big races in three weeks, finished a 
discouraging eighteenth. The national dis
aster as the distance squad calls it, has to be 
the low point of their four year career.t
In track the squads woes were continued. 
Mike Short suffered a stress fracture and had 
to sit out the season while John Wessels 
decided to take time off to concentrate on his 
studies. The rest of the distance squad never 
seemed to get back in gear after the heart
breaking finish at Nationals. The track team 
still finished undefeated but the PAC Cham
pionship was closer than most Tartans 
would have liked. After trailing Allegheny 
for two-thirds of the meet, the Tartans 
finally came alive. Fueled by strong perfor
mances from Chris Shafer and Art Muzik, 
on the last day of competition the Tartans 
overcame Allegheny to secure the win.
As the distance squads senior year rolled 
around, dual meets had switched from
being an issue of whether they would wine 
not, to one of how bad they would win. j 
seniors, though with graduation approad 
ing the squad found it increasingly difficulj 
to perform up to their expectations, 
dual meet wins still came easily, but in I 
Saturday Invitaitonals the squad found 
difficult to get good performances from I 
whole team on the same day. There was j 
good performance here and there, but 
good team performances the Tartans 
become accustomed to were lacking, 
squad just squeaked into another shot 
Nationals where on a flat fast course the! 
finished a solid twelfth.
This track season as the Tartans 
towards another PAC Championship, th| 
distance squad, under former Tartan 
tance standout Dario Donatelli, has begu 
to show signs of a reassurance. This we 
kend Mike Short qualified for Nationa 
and Art Muzik ran 1:53.7 in the 880 to slid 
two seconds off his personal best, whifl 
Kevin Brewer set a new personal best of 4:f 
in the mile. With the PAC ChampionshiJ 
fast approaching things are looking go 
foHhe Tartans, and therefore the fortunesd 
the rest of the PAC teams has definite] 
taken a turn for the worse.Seven strong seniors graduate having never losi
continued from page 17
ing. Although as a competitor it hurts to 
see people who I beat in high school now 
doing better than I because they have had
better athletic opportunities, Shafer really 
has nothing to be ashamed about concern
ing his athletic performance.This spring he 
is running better than ever and has already
photo by Mike Pilrwski
John Wessels and Curt Meuse run the 5000 meters ahead of a Robert Morris runner.
set a personal best of 4:02 in the 1500 along 
with a personal best of 2:02 in the 880. If he 
stays healthy, this track season promises to 
be a year worth remembering. For Shafer it 
would be a perfect ending to an often frus
trating collegiate running career.
John McGowan is not blessed with the 
speed of a gazelle or the endurance of 
migrating birds; rather, he uses a combina
tion of speed, endurance, and mental tough
ness to achieve his success. Although 
McGowan answers without hesitation, 
Most of my goals were academically 
oriented when I came to CMU. I run mainly 
for enjoyment not competition, the com
petitive fire is evident in the expression on 
McGowans face as he competes. When the 
talk turns to gutsy races McGowans name 
inadvertently surfaces. Hes earned his 
badge of courage in the hot, humid weather 
that often accompanies track meets.
A former high school teammate of Mike 
Short, Bob Dusch is a solid 5000-10,000 
meter runner for the Tartans. However, 
Duschs interests lie more in the varied ter
rain and longer distances of the fall cross
country season., Track to Dusch means only 
a way to fill up the spring and keep in 
shape for cross country. Although he
placed in the 10-kilometer run in PAC si 
year, Dusch sees his emphasis and ambitio 
switching to much longer races as he loolj 
forward to trying out the marathon son 
time after he graduates. Marathon runninj 
will have to wait after this falls crosj 
country season, for Dusch still has one mo 
season of eligibility for cross country 1 
One more season to shoot for his goal < 
becoming an All-American in cross-count' 
and thereby jc5ining his fellow teamma| 
Mike Short and John Wessels along withl 
handful of other past CMU greats whohaj 
achieved theis cherished status.
A rundown of the senior distance squ 
would be incomplete without including^ 
Muzik. Muzik, like Short, is more orient 
towards track than cross-country. In 
he has run a personal best of 1:56 and. , Offlbeen a steady fifth place finisher in tneo' 
the PAC Championships.
In crosss country Muzik has not al^| 
made the travelling squad, but his prest 
as the eighth man has put pressure on 
teammates to perform. As he leaves CM^j 
will graduate not only with one of the 
engineering classes in the country, buta* 
with one of the finest distance squads---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1984The TartanPage 19
Respite strong defensive effort, 
/vomen ruggers lose to SRU12-0
gv PAULINE WEN
Tartan
The saying goes At Slippery Rock, the 
en are men and the women are too. Last 
Saturday, the SRU women lived up to their 
putation as they beat the CMU womens 
rugby team, 12-0.
The Slippery Rock team, in its first game 
/er, deftly passed off the ball from player to 
layer, and managed to elude and outpass 
he CMU women. SRU got a try early in the 
me and another one later in the first half, 
half-time the score was SRU 8, CMU 0. 
During the second half, CMU fought 
ck with ferocity. CMU showed that 
^gressiveness, not size, is what counts, as a 
umber of players made painful tackles 
inst the larger SRU players. In particuThe results are in, the 1984 IM track meet 
been completed. The MVP was Mitch 
Neil of CIA, who won the 100 yard dash, 
he440, high jump, and was on the 880 yard 
lay team. (For times and winners, see graCommissioner Laurand Lewanbwski should be commended for a fine job. 
ithie Sitter was the lone female runner, 
icsting a 12.3 100 yard dash.
In other news, Brian Taubler, this years 
President, has been named IM Man of 
Year. Taubler was vice-president during
Contributing Editor
lar, Suzy Raginsky brought down SRU 
players again and again. Still, the SRU play
ers managed to slide past the CMU defense 
and made their last try. A close and disputed 
penalty kick by fullback Pam Mott near the 
end of the game almost made the score 12-3, 
but the referee called the kick null.
The game ends the first official season of 
the newly bom CMU women's rugby team. 
They only managed to get in two games this 
spring, but next year, with most players 
returning, the team eagerly awaits a full 
season. 
The CMU men have also ended their 
seaosn. Their final game against WVU was 
a frustrating disappointment as the WVU 
players sailed past CMU 38-0. Their final 
tally stands at 3-2-1.
W report includes a special thanks
photo by Karl Kobil/The Pitt News 
Jill Werner misses a tackle as Pauline Wen breaks from the pack.
515i51i51SlSl5lSl515lSlS1515lSl5l51Sl51Sl51SlSl51515l5li
The Tartan staff would like 
to thank all our readers for their 
support during the past year.
151515MS151Sl51S15l51SMSl5l51S51Sl5t5l5SlSlSM
his sophomore and junior years. Taubler is 
a brother at DTD.
Softball playoffs will begin this week.
(This weeks IM report was edited by 
Christopher D. Lewis. The Tartan would 
like to thank Earl J. Birdy for providing us 
with IM info all year long.)
A special thanks. . .
The Tartan sports department wishes to 
thank Bruce Gerson, Sports Information 
Director of Camegie-Mellon Univeristy and 
the Presidents Athletic Conference. Many 
of the statistics printed in our section were 
furnished by Gerson, and many a Sunday 
afternoon we bugged him on the phone. As 
a freshman Sports Editor, I must say he 
made my job much easier.
The staff wishes you luck with your 
recent misfortunes, and cant wait to work 
with you again in 84. Bucknell, watch out. 
Thanks, Bruce!
 Ed.
IM Track Results
Winning Event Statistics
EventWinnerTime/Dis.
Men
1 mile relayDTD4.00.8
High jumpMitch ONeil (CIA)5'8"
Shot putMichael Sussman ZBT -37' 1"
880 yard relayCIA1.43.6
1 mile runDuane Galbi4.48.5
100 yard dashyMitch O'Neil11.4
880 yard runSpencer Barrett (DTD)2.11.7
Long jumpPat Muir (ECE)19'4"
440 yard runAndrew Harmon (DTD)57.8
220 Yard dashMitch ONeil (CIA)25.0
Women 
100 yard dashKathie Sitter123
Check the Skibocloset before May 11for items you may have lost
fucini HII 
1 SilA I HftvC 
Ml 
Mimo. . 
Notebooks 
I.D. Cards
Wallets
Sketchbooks
Folders
Shoes
Sweaters
Gloves
Jackets
Scarves
Hats
Books
Funded by Activities Fee
SKIBO INFO DESK 9am - 5 pm M-F 
LOST AND FOUND

---------------------------------------------------

CNTRCPRCNCUAS
UIANTCD
SOFTUURRxpress
IS SEEKING 
AMBITIOUS
AND TALENTED INDIVIDUALS TO BECOME AUTHORIZED REPRESEN
TATIVES IN THE EXPLODING COMPUTER SOFTWARE AND PERIPHERALS 
INDUSTRY. EXTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE OF COMPUTERS IS NOT 
REQUIRED. WE NEED PEOPLE WHO:
 ARE RESPONSIBLE AND INDEPENDENT.
 ARE ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT OPERATING THEIR 
OWN BUSINESS.
 DESIRE FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
SOFTUJRRCxpress will provide the necessary training
AND SUPPORT TO MAKE YOUR BUSINESS A SUCCESS. ONE STUDENT 
WILL BE SELECTED IN JUNE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS THIS FALL ON 
YOUR CAMPUS. CALL TODAY FOR MORE INFORMATION.
(COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED)
(415) 322-0639
SOFTWRRxpress
catch the wave
360 Forest Ave.f Suite 303  Palo Alto, CA 94301
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to 6? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at621-1988
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrua! extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., Pittsburgh 
363-1107
For a free brochure and an invitation to a Free 
Sample Class call Toll Free: 80Q-222-TEST
The National Center for Educational Testing 3414 Peachtree Rd. NE Suite 526 Atlanta, GA 30326
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or take the next course FREE.
To oil students: WANT TO KEEP YOUR PARENTS INFORMED BUT TOO BUSY TO WRITE?Send them a Tartan subscription!
GRADUATING 
SENIORSDont miss The Tartan just because youre leaving school
Mail in the subscription form any time before 
the next semester and get The Tartan delivered!
I want a subscription for
mailing address.
? one semester $10 ? two semesters $20
billing address, 
(if different)
Send to The Tartan, Box 17, Schemiey Park, Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Make a good buy 
before you say goodbye
Buying your leased phone now saves you time and money next term.
This year, dont leave for home 
without your phone. Buy it before sum
mer and save yourself some time and 
money. Buying your AT&T leased 
phone now means you'll have your 
phone with you the very first day back
to class.
To buy the phone youre leasing, 
just call AT&T Consumer Sales &
Services toll-free number. Or visit
any of our AT&T owned and operated 
Phone Centers. Its that easy. So call us 
before you say goodbye. Then unplug 
your phone and take it with you. And 
have a nice summer.
1-800-555-8111
Call this toll-free number 24 hours a day.
Pittsburgh 
126 S. Highland Avenue
AT&T
 1984. AT&T Information Systems

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.______________________
Tartan thistles and thorns distributed
The End.
Weve always wanted to start an article that 
way. As another year in The Tartan ends and 
everyone becomes reminiscent, here are the 
developments of the year the editorial board 
hopes youll remember:
An open-minded thisde to Pat Crecine and 
Richard Cyert for being more accessible and to 
Lois Cox and Brad Walter for being there  as 
always.
A multi-bloom thistle to History and Philo
sophy for handling the touchy subject of pla
giarism both sensitively and seriously, for 
nuturing philosophy to the point of independ
ence and for adding a course in Japanese lan
guage culture.
An international thistle to Raj Reddy, 
Richard Cyert and Public Relations for hard 
work in making President Mitterrands visit a 
success and to Mitterrand for choosing CMU 
over Stanford and MIT.
An innovadve thisde to administration for 
being daring, as usual, in recognizing new 
trends in chemistry. Good luck to the new 
department head, Guy Birge.
A thisde in the spodight to Drama for suc
cessfully taking on the challenge of The 
Greeks and for breathing new life into the old 
classic Guys and Dolls.
An enduring thisde to the staff of Hunt 
Library for the long hours theyll be putting in 
to keep Hunt open 24 hours daily until the end 
of finals.
A double-thistle should be awarded to the 
Tartan football team. Number two ranked out 
of nearly 200 Divison III schools, the Bandits 
defense and two-headed offense bowled over 
teams all season, with a PAC record five shu
touts. Despite a heartbreaking loss on Tech 
Field slime in the playoffs, it was a memorable
season. A special thistle to football coach 
Chuck Klausing, who was named Division III 
Coach of the Year.
A centennial thistle to Gary Meckley, track 
and cross-country coach, for winning his onehundredth consecutive dual meet Saturday; 
54th straight in cross-country, 46 in track. 
Another thistle to the seniors who have accom
panied Meckley on this streak. (See sports 
section.)
A carnival thistle to Pika, for sweeping all 
three divisions of buggy this year.
Victorious thistles to the hockey club and 
womens tennis team for winning their respec
tive-conferences.
A really big thistle to offensive tackle Ross 
Jicomelli, who was named to the Pizza Hut 
All-America team, and well-rounded thistles to 
basketball players Laurie Arendas and Greg 
Gabriel, who were named national and district 
academic all-Americans respectively.
Two muddy thistles to Jyl Luria and Suzy 
Raginsky who, against all odds, started a 
womens rugby team at CMU.
And a special thistle to James Banner, the 
athletic director who led one of the most suc
cessful seasons Division III Sports has ever 
seen.
Budding thistles to Interfratemity Council 
for trying to break the barrier between inde
pendents and Greeks and to Bill McCormick 
and Eric Rocher for introducing a steering 
committee to give Student Senate new direc
tion. Its only a first step, but with perseverence 
it could be a big step. "
A big, sharp thorn to the Pennsylvania 
Liquor Control Board, Orpheus Allison, Jerry 
Falwell and all the other people who feel a 
moral obligation to tell the world what is best 
for the rest of us. With good legislative action,
maybe the PLCB wont even be around 
year to get another thorn.
A yellow thorn to the Pittsburgh Press 
getting the story wrong on both the PLCB 
Jeff Suzuki. A free press is always import^ 
but get the story right.
Speaking of which, a yellow thorn toi 
editors of The Duke of Duquesne for irrespo 
sible journalism, but an even pointier tho 
for the Duquesne president, Father Nesti, 
hasnt read the United States Constituti 
lately. Also, a tentative thistle to the editors 
The Duchess and all those who made itpoi 
ble, for having the guts to pursue journalis 
knowing the mistake they made.
A rare thorn to the usually sensitive 
brilliant Hugh Young. Please dont ci? 
more segregation in one area of campus 
eliminating compartmentalism in Kresg
The usual thorn to anyone who thinks 
school can be viable without the humanit] 
Maybe next year H&SS wont have a but 
problem with better management and m 
money. Come on, first you show students co 
puters have a definite place in the arts, t 
you cut English and history when things 
tight.
A thorn of irresponsibility to ZBT for alir 
allowing a drunken freshman to die in t 
house but a thistle to the brother who wen 
the hospital with him.
A thorn of mismanagement to ECE 
Admissions for causing such a backlog of i 
dents wanting a major they might not be; 
to get, but a redeeming thisde for taking act 
to avoid the problem in the future.
There you have it. All in all, not a bad 
with more thistles than thorns and a lo 
hope for the future.
On-campus residents may not be able to par
By BILL McCORMICK
Do you plan to live on campus AND have 
a CMU parking permit next semester? You 
may want to think about changing those 
plans. The allotment system for parking 
spaces will probably change 
next year, perhaps leaving many 
resident students without a 
^ home for their cars.
Currently, applicants for parking areThe Greek View
divided into three groups:
1) Senior administrators and tenured 
faculty
2) Non-tenured faculty, researchers, 
and full-time employees
3) Students and part-time employees. 
Each group is offered parking only after the 
preceeding group has received its desired 
spaces. Then, if any spaces are left, they are 
allocated on a first-come first-served basis in
Fraternities: ban them?
By Bob Fishel
For those of you who read my poem last 
week and didnt believe I really had written a 
long article, heres the proof of my worthi
ness. I originally wrote this analysis on col
let fraternities four weeks ago 
and after revising it four times 
(hoping for the day it would be 
published), my initial reaction is 
it may be old newsthe type that once suffi
cient time passes, the world would be better 
off if it be left unsaid.
Fortunately (or unfortunately depending 
on your views), my feelings on the subject 
are strong enough to let me humble myself 
to the extent of submitting my outdated 
story in hopes that you can look beyond the 
printed words, and experience a Greek sys
tem that you may never have realized existed 
at Camegie-Mellon.
The following is my original article. I 
simply updated it to coincide with the pres
ent time period.
"Should fraternities be banned from col
lege campuses. This was the topic of debate 
on a recent Pittsburgh Today show. 
Three weeks ago, Dean Walter and a group 
of CMU students (including myself) were 
guests of the television show. The question 
is a result of the recent decision by Colby 
College to ban the Greek system from its 
campus. Amherst College is considering 
similar action for its eight co-ed fraternities.
In the October 19th edition of the Chron
icle of Higher Educationa member of the 
Colby faculty said, Fraternities and sorori
ties have a negative impact on the educa
tional and residential life of the college. It 
further stated that fraternities are dedicated 
to exclusivity, discriminated on the basis of 
sex, and engaged in anti-social activity. 
The Colby faculty voted 76-26 to ban the 
fraternities which included 300 of the 1650 
students.
At Amherst 624 erf the 1523 students are on 
the verge of losing their letters as well. The 
faculty, quoted in the February 29th issue of 
continued on page 24
the fall.
Under the new proposal, those people in 
groups one and two would still get parking
allocated to them over the summer. A new 
group, comprised of all commuter students, 
would also get spaces allocated to them over 
the summer. The remaining spaces will be 
held until fall. At the beginning of the fall 
semester, these spaces will be re-opened to 
the entire campus. Once again, administra
tors, faculty, employees, and commuters 
will get priority. Then, if any spaces are left, 
they will be allocated to on-campus 
residents.
It is my concern that students, as a group, 
will receive fewer parking spaces than we do 
now. Obviously, students dont deserve 
priority over people like President Cyert or 
Professor Simon. However, I believe that 
students do deserve some guaranteed min
imum number of parking spaces. If you
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
have any ideas, please let me know. Ot 
wise, get your applications in early.
No office hours this week. If you wa 
get in touch with me, please leave a no 
the Skibo desk or give me a call.
Bill McCormick is president of 
government and writes a column foi 
Tartan.Thebtii
Editor in Chief................................&icM
Managing Editor............................Susanr
Business Manager...............................^aren
News Editor..........................Neil J. Gie
Features Editor......................Neal W.
Entertainment Editor.....................
Sports Editor.................... Christopher D
Photography Editor.......................Mike P
Production Manager....................
Typesetting Manager.....................Patu
Contributing Editors.....................Pauli^
Pauline N
Asst Pro.............................................a''l
Asst Ent. Editor............................Ada1^
Asst Sports Editor...............................^otRnniltfAssc. Business Manager....................
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Peter Ba111, 
Gialamas, Tracey Pejouhy, Maura Savinl
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Edi^J 
reserves the right to withhold from p 
copy it deems unfit for publication. EdUn 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Office ^ 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21\>- ( 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 
funded by the Activities FeeAll rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

May 1, 1984The TartanPage 23
etters:
orum not sponsored by CMC
or.ijitrary to the poster advertising for a 
t forum featuring religious perspecon problems of war and peace, the 
Campus Ministry Council, as a collecjjody, did not sponsor or endorse that 
on March 29 in any way. 
member chaplain of the Campus
Ministry Council, I would like to assure the 
university community that our religious 
organization has not sponsored, nor does it 
intend at this time to sponsor,any campus 
activity of a controversial political nature.
Rev. Fr. Alexander Webster, Chaplain 
St. Basils Orthodox Christian Fellowship
at CMU.
eagan not in favor of life
tor:am responding to the letter which charized the anti-abortion movement as of a larger right to human life agenda 
Ronald Reagan as the only right to 
an life presidendal candidate. Such ments are patently false. With the blessand support of Ronald Reagan, cordictatorships in Latin America 
ghter large numbers of their citizens, uding religious leaders. Is this proIs this Gods work? The Nicaraguan )ors have been mined with US assistIs this pro-life? At home, environtal standards are not enforced, and kplace saftey standards are under attack, 
result, we shall be poisoned and irra;d. In addition, food for the poor has curtailed. Is this a pro human life ida? Of course not. 
he anti-abortion movement is not part 
greater right to human life movementl.Rather, it is part of a larger attack on 
rights, a pro-slavery movement if you 
The Reagan administration has contly attacked the rights of women, orities, poor people, and handicapped le. It opposes equal rights for women, 
the right of a woman to terminate her 
nancy. It opposed equal access to educaIt opposes voting rights, and favors
giving tax breaks to racial bigots. It opposes 
legal and nutritional assistance for the poor. 
It sneers at the handicapped as it cuts their 
programs. In foreign policy, it supports 
totalitarians and corrupt dictators so long as 
they mumble some peiues about antiCommunism. It winks at the murders of 
'tens of thousands of innocents with a boys 
will be boys attitude.
One should also consider some of the 
other leaders who are anti-abortion advo
cates. Jesse Helms wants our tax dollars to 
encourage the growing of cancer-causing 
tobacco, rather than to feed malnourished 
children. He is well-known for his opposi
tion to civil rights in general, and blacks in 
particular. Strom Thurmond split from the 
Democratic party and formed his own third 
party because of his opposition to civil 
rights and racial equality.
To say that the anti-abordon movement 
is part of a larger right to decent human 
life agenda and that Ronald Reagan is the 
only right to human life candidate is pat
ently false. Such statements are at best unfathomably naive, and at worst a cynical 
attempt to manipulate misguided humanit
arians into supporting a fascist agenda.
John E. (Woody) Snyder 
grad student
Shapiro says goodbye
By Stuart Shapiro
As the end of another academic year 
approaches, both too quickly and not 
quickly enough, its time once again to 
attempt to make some sort of sense out of the 
"collective wisdom (or nonsense) 
embodied in these columns. In 
other words, now that all is just 
1 about said and done, so what?
The one greatadvantage of having to 
chum out one of these things every week is 
that doing so forces me to think at least
somewhat coherently about just what it is I 
believe or think I believe. Given my natural 
desire to espouse positions which are at least 
partially defensible, Id better be able to 
defend them to my own sadsfaction before 
opening myself up to attack by those who 
might have differing views. Every now and 
then I discover that my preferred position is 
unsupportable. Its an uncomfortable 
feeling.
Its also necessary, however, if one wishes 
continued on page 24obias explains libertarian basis of columns
By Dan Tobias
or most of this school year, I have been 
ing a column in The Tartan giving my 
about how our government has 
fed away from preserving our individual 
liberties and has instead become 
an agressor. I have also pres
ented alternative systems for 
doing some things ordinarily 
ight of as the exclusive province of 
eminent. During this period, several 
have criticised me, calling me 
realistic, over-idealistic, and too 
cal. However, these people rarely actuwrite letters to The Tartan giving a 
tol using arguments based on facts, 
-ad, if they write at all they stick largely 
dhominem attacks, some of which were 
bscene and libelous that the editor tossed
11 into the wastebasket rather than printthem. And some coward sent me a nasty 
1Sage by computer mail, using somebody 
account.
to sort of reaction disappoints me. I 
no objection to people criticizing my 
lIilns; in fact I would find such debate to 
Arresting, and it would help me identify 
Perhaps improve upon the weak points 
suggestions. However, intelligent 
seems to be sorely lacking on this 
'PUsAt any rate, I will spend the rest of 
clumn, which is my last of the present 
year, summarizing my major points, 
explaining the principles on which 
based.
positions I have advocated in this 
are based upon the philosophy of 
ertarianism. Stated simply, the basic 
^ian principle is that No person, or 
P of j>eople, may initiate force against 
. er I his initially sounds pacifist, but 
lce the word initiate: this means that
force in self-defense is acceptable. From this 
principle, everything else I have advocated 
can be derived. For example, if somebody is 
smoking marijuana in the privacy of his 
home, he is not initiating force against 
another; thus, it is immoral for a policeman 
to forcibly arrest him for it. Therefore, drug 
laws, and other victimless crime laws such 
as those dealing with gambling, prostitu
tion, and pornography, are unjustifiable.
People have the right to do what they want 
with their own lives as long as nobody else is 
directly harmed.
A basic point to remember is that nobody 
is entitled to delegate rights he does not 
possess himself. Thus, a government, being 
simply a group of people considering itself 
to be the representatives of the public, does 
not have any special rights of its own which 
override the principle of no initiation of
ply
'he
I

WllHERE* MWTOR Tint
MESl YOU ft C-OTTIN 
IT* INTO/
LEBANON
force. It can only rightfully do such things as 
any individual citizen would have the right 
to do on his own, if he had the resources. Its 
valid functions include an army to defend 
against foreign invaders, and a police force 
to protect against domestic criminals. But, 
in a truly Libertarian system, such things 
should be voluntarily funded; taxation is 
equivalent to theft, and is unjustified. This 
can be easily seen by observing that no indi
vidual by himself has the right to forcibly 
extort money from another, regardless of 
what noble cause it is intended for. Thus, 
how can such a nonexistent power be dele
gated to a group of people who call them
selves the government?
The preceding is admittedly a rather short 
synopsis of my positions, without much in 
the way of justifications. Space does not per
mit more in-depth study of such a wide 
range of subjects in just one column. If you 
have been reading this column every week, 
you will have seen more detailed arguments 
for specific aspects of the principles pres
ented above. You might also try' reading 
such books as For a New Liberty, by Murray 
Rothbard, and Atlas Shrugged, by Ayn 
Rand. Also, check Libertarian magazines, 
such as Inquiry, which is sold at many news
stands including Entropy.
I intend to resume my column in Sep
tember to examine some more topics. Since 
this is a Presidential election year, I will give 
some analyses of what sorts of things can be 
expected over the next four years depending 
on which of the two evils gets elected, and 
I will also report on David Bergland, the 
Libertarian Party candidate, who represents 
a true alternative to voters tired of the same 
old politics. Have a good summer.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in applied math 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanMay 1 f 1984
Greek organizations perform philanthropies
continued from page 22
the Chronicle said Fraternities are prim
arily social clubs with little of the sense of 
shared responsibility, self governance or 
financial self-sufficiency known to alumni 
of earlier years.
That is the viewpoint of the faculty; 
unfortunately the students agree. Even 
though the students want the Greeks to 
remain, friends at Colby told me that the 
houses are primarily social dubs and dont 
participate in community service.
Ok, thats tne story at Colby and Amherst, 
but what about here at CMU? Is the story the 
same? Definitely not. Our situation is quite 
the opposite. I could write a book on the 
positive aspects of fraternity life. Now dont 
get me wrong. I could also write a fair 
amount on the negative aspects. But I have a 
strong feeling that the length of this article 
may have already turned you off. So for 
those of you who have the courage to con
tinue, I will focus on one issue, and one issue 
only: community service.
Every year the Greeks help as best they 
can. Working within their individual 
houses, combined with other Greeks, and 
working together with Panhel and the Interfratemity Council (IFC), they promote 
goodwill for countless charities. For exam
ple, the IFC sponsors an annual blood drive 
for the Central Blood Bank. And as soon as 
they are able to give again, the brothers of 
Beta Theta Pi go back to donate more blood, 
this time as a house oroject.
No one organization receives all our 
efforts. Last Christmas Chi Omega went 
carolling at homes for the elderly, Sigma Nu 
invited orphans into their home, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma donated Christmas toys to 
the Shadyside Presbyterian Church, and 
Delta Gamma supplied toys for the Child
rens Hospital. The kids at the Hospital find 
friends at other houses as well. Last year, Phi 
Kappa Theta sponsored a dance marathon, 
while Delta Upsilon and Kappa Alpha 
Theta combined efforts to promote a Bed 
Push.
Incidentally, Delta Upsilon received an 
international community service project 
award for their part in the event. On top of
Now just think for a moment about the 
IFCs contribution to the campus at large. 
Every year the Greeks enter floats in the 
homecoming parade, as well as sponsoring 
Greek Sing. This year the proceeds went to 
the Pittsburgh Hospices, while last years 
proceeds benefitted Easter Seals. Finally, 
dont forget the biggest event of them all. 
The event that is solely for the benefit of 
CMUs campus. I am referring to Carnival. 
Can you imagine what Spring Carnival 
would be like without the fraternity system? 
Actually I hope you can. Yes the Greeks put
a lot of time into making this years carnival 
the best ever. The commitment and dedica
tion is one of fhe best experiences one can 
this, Kappa Alpha Theta also went trick-ortreating.
Multiple Sclerosis, commonly known as 
MS, is another popular cause. For the past 
two years Theta Xi has joined forces with 
Kappa Alpha Theta to sit atop a thirty foot 
telephone pole for seven days and seven 
nights. The Pole-Sit took place in the 
middle of campus. This year Theta Xi pro
moted Multiple Sclerosis with their film fes
tival. The brothers ran four movies in 
DH2210 over a month span. Since the show
ings were at the end of the semester, the 
campus received a study break while fight
ing a good cause at the same time.
Delta Tau Delta, taking the more athletic 
approach, recently pedalled its way through 
a bikathon, while Alpha Tau Omega hosted 
a pool tournament three weekends ago. 
Both events were for the benefit of MS.
As I mentioned, CMU Greeks want to 
help as many people as they can. Delta 
Gamma reaches out to the blind every year 
by sponsoring their beautiful eyes contest on 
the Skibo Gray Matter to benefit the Blind 
Association. And during carnival, the sisters 
painted stars in our eyes, raising still more 
money for the Blind Association.
Dont stop reading now. This is just the 
beginning. I can go on and on. Delta 
Upsilon asked Chi Omega to join them in 
their Charitable Chairs event to help 
Easter Seals. Unfortunately, bad weather 
forced the house to settle for a raffle; Kappa 
Alpha Theta sells valentine carnations every 
February to benefit Logopedics; Pi Kappa 
Alpha has raised money during Spring Car
nival for the American Cancer Society; Pi 
Lambda Phi has participated in the Chan
nel 4 telethon, raising money the past two 
years to help fight Cerebral Palsy; Beta 
Theta Pi hosted a party for the benefit of the 
March of Dimes; Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
washed windows for the United Steel 
Workers Union, and last year raised money 
for the Gladstone Elementary School so 
ghetto kids could go to summer camp; and 
Kappa Alpha Theta has carved pumpkins 
the past two Halloweens for the Salvation 
Army.
This isnt all. Not only do CMUs Greeks 
make monetary contributions, they also 
help individuals. Last year Delta Gamma 
made Easter Baskets, last fall Alpha Tau 
Omega donated their time to help a woman 
at Chatham College earn her doctorate, 
Kappa Sigma has brought both retarded 
citizens and orphans to Pittsburgh Pirates 
baseball games, and Pi Kappa Alpha has 
entertained kids brought on campus by the 
Big Brother Association.
The list continues. Alpha Tau Omega, 
Kappa Kappa Gamma and Kappa Sigma 
have all helped TV stations raise money 
through phonathons  Kappa Kappa 
Gamma just finishing theirs. Delta Tau 
Delta also recently put in time. Sponsoring 
another bikathon, the brothers raised money 
this time for the American Cancer Society.
On April 21st Delta Upsilon refurbished 
an old home for use as a halfway house for 
juveniles. They worked with United Way to 
make this possible. Still to come this year is 
the announcement of Delta Delta Deltas 
annual scholarship for CMU women. The 
sisters will be awarding $400 to a lucky 
applicant. The list for individual houses 
would not be complete without mentioning 
Chi Omega again. Throughout the semes
ter, the sisters are counselling troubled girls 
in one of the local middle schools.
Should I stop here? I probably should 
(that is if you have been brave enough to 
read this far). However, I havent mentioned 
Panhel. And I only mentined IFC once. All 
five sororities joined together to refurbish 
The Oakland Womens Center. And last 
year all the sorority pledges were responsible 
for sending off the Homecoming Balloons, 
also for the center. But the sororities did not 
stop here. They also joined the rest of the 
IFC to raise money to provide Kim Katerino 
with a bone marrow transplant.
continued from page 23
to develop a belief system that holds 
together. Unfortunately,it is clear that all 
too many students go through four years of 
higher education without ever being com
pelled to examine why they believe what 
they believe. And while science and engi
neering students are undoubtedly more sus
ceptible to this failing, those in the 
humanities and social sciences also some
times neglect to apply their keen analytical 
skills to their own beliefs with any 
consistency.
Has college really done its job if students 
are allowed to escape without having 
devoted substantial thought to the nature of 
society, the values that serve as its founda
tion, and how those values are or should be 
reflected through the political process? As 
you might have already guessed, I think the 
answer must be no. On the other hand 
though, is there anything wrong with going 
to college to acquire specific job skills? Not 
at all. But there is something wrong if those 
are all you take with you when you leave.
I often wonder whether very many stu
dents who could classify their views accord
ing to the liberal-conservative yardstick 
could also explain why they land in one 
spot rather than another. Just as USA 
Today is a content free newspaper, far too 
many college students end up subscribing to
The success ot Carnival is the res 
of an entire campus effort. You mJ 
work. All of you. The Greeks are just 
they could be there.
I realize this article is long but therei 
no way I could shorten it. I hope my 
well taken. The Greeks on thiscampUsi 
a purpose. And although this article Q 
talks about part of it, community servi( 
extremely important. Also, there are 
more areas in which we want to 
involved. Next year we would like to sp 
sor one or two campus-wide events as wel 
continue promoting community serv 
Such events may include a non-alcoh 
party weekend and a Bar-b-q on the 
Furthermore, both the IFC and SDC 
looking towards co-sponsoring a cam[ 
wide event. These plans for the future r 
soon become reality when we return i 
fall. Good luck with finals and enjoy y 
summer.
PS: Here are the results from the P 
burgh Today shows phone in vote:w 
asked whether fraternities should be ban 
from college campuses, the city of P 
burgh said no. The community wants 
IFC to remain.
Bob Fishel is president of Interfrata 
Council and is one of several contribute 
the Greek View.
content free political views. Beliefs sin 
drive political opinion, not the other 
around.
I certainly do not lay claim to anysp 
immunity. I am now painfully a ware! 
graduated with far too little self exan 
don under my belt. Writing this col 
every week has proven therapeutic. Bui 
shouldn't have to write a column to bet 
pelled to engage in critical thinking in 
lege. However, since there are very 
institutions of higher learning in this a 
try from which it is impossible to grad 
without hav ing been forced to examine 
sonal values and beliefs, I can only sui 
that students choose their courses wit 
eye towards providing themselves with 
essential exercise. That it is essential I 
no doubts. I also do not doubt that this 
sermon will fall on a lot of deaf ears. B 
this or anything else I have written haS 
just one person to examine his or hero 
ion and the attendant ideological andti 
baggage, then regardless of whether 
change resulted, I think there was s 
point to this little exercise.
I trust I will be forgiven for taking n 
slightly seriously just this once.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate stude 
applied history and is a columnist ft 
Tartan.S-E-L-F S-E-R-V-I-C-E
3* FINE REPRODUCTIONS -3e
(JlngtWL ^zaphic Cinc
3517 FORBES AVENUE  OAKLAND 
683-1188 MON-FRI 9:00-5:30  SAT 10-2
Did you ever consider serving as a 
priest?
...a life style of 
commitment and 
self fulfillment?
Call:
Father Rudolph Silvers
Vocations Office
412/456-3070 
or write:
Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh
111 Boulevard of the Allies. Pittsburgh. PA 1
Shapiro: belief system!

---------------------------------------------------

SSiiHSj0|SSUU

---------------------------------------------------

Contents
Volume 5Number 4
Dossier Staff
Editor: Judith Merrill
Assistant Editor: Laurie Schorr
Design Editors: Jeffrey Pacione,
Joshua Mutchnick
Fiction: Susan Bossi
Poetry: Terri Swartz
Contributing Editors: Gregg Hower,
Catherine McCafferty
Staff: John Babich, Michele Keane
Why / Don't Pick Up Pennies 
Sending Sigosto Home From Sidewalks Anymore Phone Call
by Lauren Schneiderby Lynne Schatzby Lesley Brunker
Cover page
Design/Jeffrey Pacione
Contents page
Design/Joshua Mutchnick
page 2page 2page 3
Design/John KorpicsDesign/John KorpicsDesign/Andrew Berman

---------------------------------------------------

/
Zena puked on the busA Poem for the
? River Lethethis morningFor My MotherCriminal Element
Robert M. Hinesby John Caseyby Catherine Stroud Vodrey
\
by Lauren Schneider
tes 4, 5, 6, and 7page 8page 9page 9
i'gn/Bonnie Siegler Design/Keith Loell Design/Keith Loell Design/Keith Loell

---------------------------------------------------

2
SENDING SIGOSTO HOME
You wanna go back to Italy?
Bum you up, put your ashes in that jar. 
Now you can go back to Italy.
Elena parades them in 
like a circus barker, opening 
her door wide. She has something 
to show this time.
The ladies file past the bureau 
as though it was the tomb, peering 
at the Jesus jar
enshrined among pictures, the frayed 
suspenders, the sea of darvocet 
and tiny lemon drops 
spread across the dresser.
Its their first time here for cards 
and they know enough to not touch 
anything.
Your Sigosto did love the old country, 
eh Elena?
Backs to him, the ladies deal 
their glossy-backed cards that say 
Maxwell House or Bridgeville Union 
Trust, punctuate the slap of each one 
with a velvet word for her ear 
bowling, permanent, McDonalds.
She thinks of how nice it would be 
to weave their words into the tablecloth, 
send it off to some nameless cousin 
who could shake it out over La go del Cortes, 
a piece of this new life 
a little Sigosto.
Lauren Schneider
WHY I DONT PICK UP PENNIES 
FROM SIDEWALKS ANYMORE
It was easy when I wanted love. 
Each was a dull copper wish;
I would bend down, whisper 
Him.
My fingernails 
scraped on the cement 
I made fists, 
squeezed the cents 
to my palm, hoping: 
this time.
I pas by one now, 
always thinking 
within two steps, 
that one shined brightest 
It might have done 
the trick.
Lynne Schatz

---------------------------------------------------

was pretty tame for us. We were really 
into torturing rats. Put one in a glass jar 
and dropped it from the second story 
fire escape. It clunked and popped, like 
dropping a bottle of jam or some other 
thick liquid. Because that's all we are 
you know: thick liquid.
We took one rat's feet off with wire 
shears. He couldn't walk and we 
laughed and laughed. We slit another's 
gutthey have tough skinand it kinj 
of cried a squeaking scream and 
dragged away, trailing blood. This 
wasn't so great because it made us 
puke. We were in a little black alley and 
the sound of retching echoed and made 
people investigate and one woman got 
sick. We ran.
No, I wasn't drunk or high or 
anything those times. We just wanted to 
see what would happen. What's wrong 
with curiosity? No one got hurt except a 
few rats, and scientists do far more 
cruel things to them and pretend it's
perfectly all right. It's like with drugs. 
Sure, acid and weed and meth are bad 
for you, but what about chemotherapy? 
That's pure chemicals, pumped into your 
body for no other reason than to kill 
something that's growing inside. And 
then you take more chemicals because 
the first group is so strong you get very 
sick.
Don't get self-righteous with me, 
sister. We're all escapists. I like being 
away, out of touch for spaces of time. 
Don't tell me you've never sat down 
with a book or some music and forgot 
time and place. Don't tell me you've 
never enjoyed cooking or running or 
gardening or hiking or tv or sex because 
it helped you get other things off your 
mind. Even drug therapy is an escape 
from the reality of cancer. And if you 
think I'm so screwed up in the head, 
why are you listening to me? Do you 
remember what you were doing before 
you picked up the phone?
'o I'm lonely, so I'm bored. It's 
vays been my lot in life to play tne 
of the malcontent. Yeah, I'm scared 
Scared because I have this bottle 
lre, and no one to share it with, and 
st time JD and I spent some time 
0ne together, I got royally smashed 
'd had to have my stomach pumped.
)u d think I'd learn my lesson.
But you know, I really don't drink all 
31 much. I go on binges. Sometimes,
5 d^gs, more often some type of 
toholwhatever. But it doesn't 
i|JPen all that often, maybe two or 
times a year I'll get hyped on this 
pat and do it heavily for a week or 
p then lapse into patterns of occaP13!, recreational use if it passed 
pous testing. It amounts to about a 
ptth and a half a year down and out 
^nne substance or another.
How can I lose that time on my job?
. n t. By juxtaposing my vacation time 
^ holidays, I miss relatively little time
on the job. And because of that, it's a 
private existence, away from my peers. 
No one knows about my excesses 
except my most trusted friends. They 
often join me.
Think I'm weird? You'd never guess 
who I am. The guy at the corner grocer, 
the receptionist (the broad behind the 
big desk), your wife's lawyer, your 
husband's lover. I'm everywhere, like 
creeping socialism. Everyman. Only 
instead of plunging sticks in the eyes of 
the cyclops, I'm plunging needles in my 
arms. Well, sometimes.
Besides good ole Jack D, I'm with 
my cat. Do you like cats? Keithhe was 
my best friendand I used to hate cats 
enough to get them stoned. You've 
heard tales about people who did that, 
and never knew anyone who did. That

---------------------------------------------------

the river leihe
By Robert M. Hine
I dont know how I can makeitai 
plainer, the angel said, You have 
drink.
He didnt look at all like your ordina 
Biblical variety of angel; I mean 
instance, the type in white robes whi 
sit around all day on fluffy clouds, pla 
ing ethereal accompaniment on hai 
and rustling its huge, snowy winj 
occasionally. This one had the 
robe all right, but thats where the sin 
ilarity ended. He balanced an enormoi 
double-edged sword in one hand an 
clutched a jewel-encrusted goblet 
the other. In addition, he stood abouts 
and a half feet tall and looked like! 
meant business. Hot sparks glean 
from under his lowered brow.
I looked around some more, stalling 
time and trying without much success 
get my bearings. For some vague reaso 
I knew I didnt want to drink fromtl 
water of the dark river flowing sli! 
gishly behind the angel. All aroundu 
the land was barren. Really barrel 
which was no help at all. Other thana 
river and what looked like a dim fort 
on the flattened horizon behind 
saw only the same orange-brown 
everywhere. Definitely not a very pop1 
lar vacation spot, I decided.
I still had absolutely no idea howl 
gotten there. Come to think oflL 
couldnt even remember where I h 
been before I woke up, flat on my ^ 
in the hard clay, looking up at an ui 
grey sky. This Being standing neart 
river, leaning on the hilt of his swfl 
told me to have a drink when I ^ 
saw him, offering the goblet. Id re^ 
at first, not really knowing why. 
positive I didnt want any of that tu$ 
river water. Whatever it was.
Look, I said carefully, climbing1 
my feet, I dont remember how IIP 
here, and sure as Hell dont have 7 | 
idea whats going on. Could I at 
have a few explanauons?

---------------------------------------------------

5
h.. .This is easily summed up in one simple assertion, he chuckled in 
ng bass tones, You are dead, Benjamin Firth.
jht, I decided to humor him, I thought dead souls were supposed to end 
Heaven or Hell. My parents sent me to Sunday school for most of my 
Dod and I cant recall anything about you or this place, I spread my arms, 
ing the vast empty landscape.
you were a Catholic this tme, Benjamin Firth? he smiled at me, Very 
will explain a bit further. He lowered the sword, wedging the point into 
y, and leaned upon the hilt once more. I remained standing, 
lind me flows the river Lethe, he gestured with the goblet, The waters of 
ulness, and I have been placed here to ensure that you and everyone who 
here drinks of it. Then I send you back to live again. 
what about Purgatory? I asked.
Earth is sufficient, dont you think? he laughed aloud.
Hell?
ul makes its own Hell, he said seriously. As for Heaven, to answer the 
luestion on your mind, you are not going there, so there isnt any point in 
|ing it further.
y not? I decided to be obstinate; besides, he wasnt helping much, 
use youre not good enough. Now drink and forget, so I can be done with 
e rumbled, proffering the cup again.
t a minute, I interrupted, How can anyone get into Heaven if they cant 
ber their past mistakes?
t's your problem, he said, the comers of his mouth ticking up to a 
lent grin, Although, you do have one option, Benjamin. And youve 
1 before. Nearly every time. 
whats that? I was getting perturbed.
can wresde me, the grin widened, and held no kindness whatsoever, 
done this before you say. Have I ever won?
(course not, he laughed.
 What do I win if I beat you? It must have been something really 
hile.
om of choice. Your memories if you choose to keep them, he gave 
smirk, I tell you, Benjamin Firth, you have given me more trouble than 
5ut any other soul I know. Ive almost begun to look forward to your
r
spoke again into the silence that followed, I am compelled to offer the 
ree times and must be three times refused; will you not dnnk? He held the 
ut at arms length.
showing huge white teeth. Then he emptied the water onto the dry 
1(1 dropped the cup after. So be it, he said solemnly, doing a lousy job of 
^ng rather obvious mirth.
,Sed the sword and took a fighting stance. Let us begin.
hold on, I protested, Itll hardly be a fair fight, you with that sword 
e completely unarmed.
Iuh. I never said it was going to be easy, he chortled.
> come on then, I tried to rag him on, Fight if you can, you gutless
eunuch.
The taunt didnt carry nearly as much bravado as I had wanted, but it did have 
the desired effect. The angel growled, stomped toward me and let loose a swing 
designed solely to remove a head from neck. It mustve been a mighty blow. 
But I wasnt there; I lunged forward, under his sword arm, and took advantage of 
his momentum to turn the free wrist behind him. A sharp kick in the shin and 
thrust soon had him face down in the dirt. The sword flew away, flashing in the 
dim, diffuse light.
I forced the arm further up his supine back, hearing a satisfying groan of pain. 
Damn! This was going to be easier than I thought. Those self-defense classes 
Susan made me take with her had really paid off. I gave the arm another shove, 
Gonna give up?
The angel groaned and suddenly I was somewhere else.
And I was someone else.
I stood in front of the office building, near the entrance, with a plastic dish in my 
clammy hand. The few coins in it belied the time Id spent there, all morning. I 
was hungry, cold, filthy, and tired, so I leaned against the stiff brick wall, resting 
my leg. I only had one. Id left the other one in Viet Nam.
I closed my eyes and almost cried aloud. Why me? It wasnt fair! Id fought for my 
country. Now, no home, no job, nothing. No one would hire a filthy cripple. 
I opened my eyes to see me coming down the sidewalk. No, really. In a clean grey 
pin-stripe suit, Benjamin Firth walked briskly in the weak afternoon sunlight, 
his eyes carefully avoiding me. And I was so hungry. I reached out and clutched 
his sleeve and said in a hoarse whisper, Please sir, I need to eat.
A look of surprise and then disgust crossed his lean, clean-shaven face. Bums, 
he muttered, Get out of here before I call the cops.
Please sir, I pleaded, If you wont give me money, then let me have a job. 
Let me prove myself.
We have nothing. You know how the times are, he said coldly, and tried to 
pull away, Try the shelter.
He wrenched his arm loose and hurried inside.
I slumped against the wall again and held out the bowl, trying not to give up 
completely. Maybe by^evening Id have enough for a bowl of soup or something. 
I remembered all of this and suddenly the angel under me erupted. He threw me 
off, and as I rolled clear, trying to regain my bearings, he leapt after me.
I jumped to my feet, and beating his hands aside, knocked him in the face with 
my forearm. Then, twisting behind I got the crook of my elbow under his chin 
and pulled it tight into a headlock. I yanked hard, bowing him back. The angel 
made a Sound like, Guigle.
And it happened again.
I trudged up the outside steps with two of the grocery bags in my arms, twin hot 
wires of bursitis burning in my shoulders. Along with my purse, I set the bags on 
the kitchen table once I got there. I rubbed my neck slowly and called out, 
Benny, could you help me carry the rest of the groceries in from the car? 
Im busy, Mom, came the faint reply.
I sighed and went back outside.
Just as I picked up two more heavy sacks, the phone rang. Damn, I cursed 
silendy.

---------------------------------------------------

6
But before I could put the groceries back down, I heard movements inside and 
Benny yelled, I got it.
I sighed again, and started up the concrete steps looking at the old house. It 
needed painting. Ever since John died, a lot of things went undone. Maybe once 
Benny got a little older, hed help out a little more.
Nearing the door, I could hear some of the conversadon.
Id love to go to the movies but I dont have any. . .wait a minute.
Then I heard a low thud and some rustling noises. Mercy, I looked to heaven, hes 
into my purse again.
I walked into the kitchen as my thirteen year old son picked up the phone once 
again and said, Yeah, I can go, then to me, Cant I Mom?
He avoided my eyes. I pushed a stray hair back from my face.
Yes, Benny, I said finally, You can go.
Thanks. . .Yeah, I can go. See you.
He hung up and dashed out of the house.
I straightened my dress and started back out for the rest of the groceries.
I couldnt see for a moment; I hadnt known. And in that second, the angel 
jack-knifed forward and I pitched over his head to land hard in the dirt. He 
jumped at me and ground a knee into my back. I felt the vertebrae shifting. Then 
he yanked my head up by the hair and applied the same headlock Id used on 
him. Readying myself to twist around and maybe get a shot at his groin, I levered 
my torso up off the ground and lashed out.
And I was now Bill Schreiber. I sat in a wheel chair, a nice warm, Tartan-wool 
blanket over my useless legs, just like the blanket on my useless mind. Oh, I could 
think clearly enough, but there was no way to express it. My tongue lay like a 
heavy piece of raw meat in my mouth, and I could hardly feel my hands. It hurt, 
not being able to talk.
I sat in front of a worn, wooden table while my daughter, Susan and her husband, 
Benjamin argued at the Admissions desk.
But hes my father! she pleaded.
Look, Sue, Ben said quiedy. Hes had a stroke. You can see him. Hes 
practically a vegetable. We cant take care of him.
I am not a vegetable, I cried out silently.
Yes, you are. I knew I was.
Benjamin signed the forms the uniformed nurse at the desk handed him, and 
pushed them back.
There, he said with a tone of finality, then softer, Sue, we can still visit as 
often as you like.
I know, she sniffed, But there wont be any Love here.
Sure there will, he said reassuringly, the nurse nodding in support. 
Hell have the best care in the world, she insisted.
Benjamin remained at the desk while Susan came over to me. I wanted to hug her 
so bad.
She did it for me.
Then Susan pulled back and promised with brimming eyes, Well be back every 
week, Dad.
She began to compose herself, but saw the moisture on my cheek. It completely 
shattered her.
Benjamin came over and put an arm around her, saying, Dont worry, Itllh 
right.
He led her away. I heard her choke past her sobs, But Ben, he knows." 
Soon afterwards, another faceless nurse came and wheeled me down an antise 
corridor to a blank room. At least it had a window.
The angel was now standing with my head under its arm. He was dragging 
toward the river, chuckling slowly in that bass rumble of his. I thrashed 
struggled to free myself. I kicked at his shins.
Sorry, Benjamin, he laughed heartily, Looks like you lose again.
I bit him hard and he punched me in the face for my trouble.
And it was black outside. I pulled the shawl tighter around my bare shoulders 
stiff, icy breeze tugged at my dress. Fine night to decide to go without stockiflj 
chided myself. And this skimpy silk dress. Damn, shouldve worn the red col 
one. Oh well, useless to worry about it now.
Ben came out after having paid the dinner bill. He looked a little unsteady, 
after watching him struggle with the outside door, I knew that the twocockt 
white wine, and after-dinner drinks had taken their toll.
He draped his arm heavily over my shoulders and breathed whiskey at me 
go home, Sue.
Ah, Ben... I had to put it right, I think itd be a good idea if I drove, 0 
Nonsense, he attempted to say, and nearly got it right, Im fine. Youll 
It couldnt hurt, come on Sue, you can do it, I know you can drive, deal 
if we were to get pulled over, youd lose your license. I only had two gla$ 
wine.
Dammit! he nearly shouted, I said Ill drive. Leave it at that! 
All right, Ben, I said quietly, and pulled him closer. We started across 
parking lot.
At the door of our red Plymouth, I waited patiently as he fumbled with thek 
Eventually, he found the right one, and I climbed in. I leaned over and unto 
his door to save him the trouble.
But before he could get in, I fastened my seat belt and draped my shawl acros 
lap, crossing my legs just as he opened the door.
He smiled at me and I smiled back.
Much later, driving down the dark, deserted roads to our house, Ben put^ 
on my knee. I took it up and held it close. Then he tried to put his arm arouj 
and pull me over to him. From the hips down, of course, I couldnt budge h 
a puzzled look on his face.
He glanced over and in the next instant, jerked the shawl away. Even inthe
moonlight, the black band of the seat belt lay highly visible against the ^ 
my skirt.
Whats the matter? he demanded, You never wore the belts before 
you trust me?
He glared at me as if Id betrayed him.
No, Ben, I said softly, Its just thatBen, look out!
He never saw the huge oak tree rushing at us at forty miles an hour. rhe [ii. 
threw me against the seat belt, crushing my stomach, stealing my breath 
Ben go right through the windshield before I blacked out.
The angel had me face down before the river and was shoving my head

---------------------------------------------------

murky water. I had to do something.
^it a second, I stammered, thinking frantically. At least tell me how I died. 
pressure eased the slightest bit.
You fool, the angel sneered, You just witnessed your own death. Does it 
rfy you? A pause. Drink!
Did Susan live? I implored.
fes, the voice said distantly, then stronger, But shell never walk again. 
\ shit. I wanted the angel to finish his job. I felt filthy. Evil.
I knew I was genuinely sorry for all of those things. Honest. How could I 
Id doing them again if I couldnt remember?
- tiny protest grew, as I pushed my arms under me, twisting my head to the 
Then I saw the sword, driven deep into the clay near the river-bank. And an 
occurred to me.
iibled slowly across an autumn field in New England, the trees blazing with 
)r. Sue walked at my side, holding my hand, her blue eyes out-shining the 
, and generally being incredibly beautiful. I was the luckiest person I knew, 
air of robins swooped by above us in the clear, azure sky. And off to one side, 
r an old decrepit farm house, I could see a group of older children gathered 
ind what looked like a well. They were laughing and I glimpsed one of the 
er of the group hold up something that squirmed. But then he dropped it 
1 the well. They laughed again, a raucous, cruel sound this time, 
mood was ruined, 
opped Sues hand and started towards the group.
Ben, where are-- Susan asked behind me, worried, 
kids caught sight of me and took off.
ke into a run. 
fcn! Sue called.
int stop until I arrived at the piled stone wall of the well. About twenty-five 
down, a small brown puppy pawed at the dark water, yipping helplessly. 
ards, I cursed, immediately pulling off my jacket.
Mbed over the rim and swung my feet down into the well. I saw Susan nearly 
indred yards away, panting, Ben, why? 
ve got to save it, I shouted back and began the descent.
Wait! she called again.
^o time!
r?ad my legs against the walls, pressing outward and alternately using feet 
hands, worked my way down.
after about ten feet, I lost my grip on the slick, mossy walls and dropped. I 
t0 catch hold of the sides, uselessly scraping my palms until they bled. Near 
Attorn, a protruding metal rod gouged into my left arm, ripping the flannel 
e> faring flesh.
^ged deep into the water and touched bottom. In a second, I pushed off to 
^rface. As I emerged, spitting water, the drenched puppy squealed and 
(1d toward me. I grabbed the rusted metal rod with one hand and thepuppy
the other, setting him on my shoulder. He dug in with his claws and licked
far.
I^ged a laugh, despite the insistent, jabbing pain from all my injuries. Just 
Susan leaned over the edge. Ben, are you O.K.? she asked, concerned.
Just fine, I tried to reassure her, Banged my arm a bit, though. Think you 
could get a rope somewhere?
Oh, Ben! she cried, You are hurt. Ill be right back.
She disappeared from view, leaving the clear blue sky above us. I looked down at 
the thick red swirling in the water. The puppy gave a litde yip. Dont worry, I 
laughed, Well be all right.
He licked my ear again.
I felt water on my face. I shoved up and away with renewed strength. The angel 
turned on me, surprised as I grappled with him. I swung around, and with a 
savage kick at his legs, reversed positions. I thrust his head into the river, bracing 
my knee on his back. I held him under for a long time, even after his violent 
thrashing stopped.
Eventually, I pulled his head up from the river, and satisfied with his condition, 
shoved his entire body into the dark waters. Kneeling, I watched the angel float 
away, belly-down, for a few minutes.
Finally, I got to my feet and picked up the cup, regarding it for a little while 
longer. And the sword, after removing it from its clay scabbard, I threw into the 
river after the angel. I had no need for weapons.
The sword dropped into the depths without a trace, while the huge, white-robed 
angel drifted slowly along the current, bound for somewhere.
And with that final glance at the river Lethe, I turned and started toward the dim 
forest on the horizon. 
photo adaptation from photo by Jerry Dantzic by Bon nie Sieglcr

---------------------------------------------------

8

---------------------------------------------------

9
\/jy Mother
re been walking towards you 
f my Hfe.
lotographs of us as children, 
neration spreads its arms 
e space between 
\-andwhite and color.
/ears are perforated 
small rebellions;
'ettes and other efforts 
ratch out a line 
teen us
you know 
)ty-two years ago
the new name rising beneath your hands 
Id wear your face?
you know that on certain warm nights 
lather would hear a laugh on the porch 
would waver, uncertain,
\e half-light of the kitchen 
onder which of us 
happy?
wine Stroud Vodrey
A Poem for the Criminal Element
A man is only a half of himself; 
the other half is his expression."
it might start on a moonless night 
when you walk out of the bar, focus in 
on the car, and miss it.
No chrome glint, no silver notched 
circle, only the flat stain of salt 
and black mud, the blaring hole 
where it was.
That nigger
beating his ass down
the back alley knows you're pissed,
looking for him, want to find
him with those two babies
tucked under his arm.
He may take them home.
He'll gather his daughters
to him, wait for the dusk
to pull them down to the street,
to the patches of asphatt-bleeding-grass.
Theyll wait for lightning bugs.
Instead of jars, he can pull out 
your hubcaps, offer them 
to dome the yellow-green lights 
until morning.
Lauren Schneider

---------------------------------------------------

UAUC
TartnC
&NM pufo* i >~ th* bua this *rnig
t a*w Vry #'.a4 of bar 1 ifa*
* ah* hungrily 4r#v a zh* pipa*
as y* ping bar longs? with on a la athi t baf ora ashool, C Hr body, birr hing? raes tha ok*, ahovaa bar faaainto sha haofc of tha gr** aaatio front of bar,Sh* a trateha forward, api f||.. Taog, ar#hl a|ga, a &  ? a r 1 j u a n a a ;s$rk a onto tha fraa% log f loor of tha ? 5.30  ,*u aohool bua.
X that instant 
i sw bar at avary *ga ah would lia a to ba
Monaav Apr
I **w bar 4*4 wodar a rad and nranga nano sign* I aa h#r float log felu# ondar tha -csras-kad lea of  ss .1111 oo f r o a a  ov a r * o t * I   i w& i o g p oo I a,
X  *?mr? titaathah# woul4 dran* of dying.Tuesday Ap' 
-/''/( ' ft-oi ^
OSK *W*
