erty d)ti;tmA
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBER 14 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1963
VandeLinde, Dechter Represent 
Tech at N.I.C. Conference; 
Examine Fraternity Ideals
Nearly a thousand participants attended the 54th an
nual meeting of the National Interfraternity Conference at 
the Americana Hotel in New York City on December 5, 6, 
and 7. Highlight of the three-day session was an address by 
Justice Tom Clark of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Attending the meeting were ?-----------------------------------------------------
Thistle Wins 
First Place
Carnegie Techs publications 
won the top prizes in national 
In addition, college deans, student ! competition at Pi Delta Epsilon s
graduate delegates from the sixty 
member fraternities of the N.I.C. 
representing 3,500 undergraduate 
chapters at 365 colleges and unir 
versities. Several hundred undergraduate delegates represent
ed interfraternity councils on 
campuses throughout the country.
advisors and prominent educators 
participated In many workshops, 
panels and training sessions. Tech 
representatives were Dave Van
deLinde, CFP president from Sig
ma Nu, and Sam Dechter of Delta 
Tau Delta.
The bulk of the conference was 
devoted to the examination of 
the ideals of college fraternities, 
their ability to adjust to the 
trends in higher education and 
their day to day operations. These 
included leadership and its de
velopment, scholarship and its 
improvement, business manage
ment and its economics and or
ganizational matters.
Major legislative action taken 
during the meeting was a reor
ganization of the N.I.C. by creat
ing a new office of president
elect and adding a second vice 
president. This relieves the work 
load of the Conference president 
making it possible for a volun
teer worker to hold that office.
The Conference elected Bert
ram W. Bennett as its fiftieth 
president. He has been active in 
the N.I.C., having served as vice 
president and as a member of 
the executive committee. Mr. 
Bennett is a member and past 
(continued on page 2)
Internal'I Club 
Plans Flight
The International Club Euro
pean Flight announces that it will 
hold a meeting just before the 
Christmas break, so that students 
planning a summer in Europe next 
year may have their questions an
swered by European students, 
those who went last year and re
presentatives of the airlines.
The cost of the round-trip 
flight from New York to London 
will be no more than $310  over 
less than half the regular fare.
Date of the meeting is Wednes
day, December 11 at 7:30 p.m. in 
Skibo.
For further details contact, In
ternational Club Europe Flight, 
Box 235, C.I.T., Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
or call Dick Niehaus 682-8492, 
Tom Stefen 441-5449, or Harry 
Norris 682-8548.
Biannual Grand Convention. Pi 
Delta Epsilon, the Honorary Col
legiate Journalism Frater
nity, held its convention this 
at Southern Illinois University in 
Carbondale, Illinois. Ev Janssen, 
the president of the Carnegie 
chapter, spoke to the 
bled delegates from Pi Delts 1 
college chapters about the under
graduate publication problems at 
Carnegie Tech.
At the final banquet, three of 
the four publications entered in 
competition from Tech were 
awarded top prizes in their cat
egory. Each category was judged 
for literary excellence by quali
fied professional journalists. The 
1963 Thistle was the real surprise 
in the yearbook section. It placed 
first in competition with over 
thirty schools having 2,500 stu
dents and over. The critique 
given on the Thistle is as follows:
1Opening section: This section 
is particularly strong. It has imag
inative creative pictures of good 
technical quality.
2Layouts are good and offer 
(continued on page 3)
Music Dept. 
Gives Concert
The department of music will 
present a chamoer music concert 
MUSIC IN THE ROUND, under 
the direction of George Grossman 
on Thursday, December 19, at 
8:30 p.m. in the Exhibition Hall, 
College of Fine Arts.
Students in the detriment of 
music will perform the following 
program:
Mozart  Duo No. 1 in G 
Major, for violin and viola.
Bocherini  Adagio and 
Menuet.
Haydn  String Quartet in G 
Major.
Mozart  String Quartet in 
C Major.
Mozart  Divertimento.
Mozart String Quintet in C 
Minor Allegro moderato.
Brahams  Sextet in B Flat 
Allegro ma non troppo. 
Scherzo  allegro molto
The program is open to the 
public; tickets are not required.
Christmas Candlelight Service 
Relates to Darkness and Light
This evening, the traditional 
Christmas Candlelight Service 
will be held at 9:00 p.m. in the 
Heinz Chapel on the Pitt Cam
pus. Sponsored by the Campus 
YMCA and YWCA of Carnegie 
Tech and the University of Pitts
burgh, the service will include 
readings from scripture, special 
Christmas music and the sing
ing of carols. The theme of both 
readings and music is related to 
the motif of darkness and light 
. . . the people who walked in 
darkness . . . and the light that 
has come,
Peter Pook and Stanley Kris 
will be readers. Ken Tuma, presi
dent of the Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia will be soloist, and Drayl 
Kemerer organist.
Students and facutly are cor
dially invited to participate. Cul
tural Specials will be permitted 
for this event for Morewood resi
dent.
Language Dept. 
Holds Annual 
Holiday Sing
A tradition begun last year at 
Christmas in the Foreign Langu
age Department at Tech will be 
continued this year. On Thurs
day morning, December 19. at 
11:30 a.m. a French-Spanish-German Christmas program will be 
presented in Wherrett Lounge. 
Each foreign language group will 
sing three native carols in the 
originial tongue and everyone 
who is able is invited to partici
pate. There will also be two so
los. a duet, and a short one-act 
play by Stuart Wood in which 
members of the language groups 
will participate. The program wilt 
close with the singing of Adeste 
Fidelis in all three languages. 
The members of the cast would 
like to invite everyone who loves 
languages, loves Christmas or 
likes to sing.
 Photo by Walter Graymar
An APhiO member decorates the Christmas tree which now 
stands in Skibo Lobby.
Y Sponsors "Winter Daze 
Three Days in the Snow Belt
Now is the time to register for the Ys Winter Daze, 3 
days (January 29, 30, and 31) for fun, sports, and flying snow 
balls. This is the perfect break from finals!
The cost of $9.00 for Y-members and $21.00 for non
members, includes lodging, 5 meals, 2 evening snacks, use of 
facilities, and bus transportation^ *~
to and from the camp. All Tech | dinner on Wednesday, January 29 
students, faculty and their guests for Camp Deer Valley, located in 
are welcome. | Somerset County the heart of the
The group will leave the Tech snow belt. At the cainp they will 
campus by chartered bus after J (continued on page 3)
Society Warns 
Against Checks
The Travelers Aid Society of 
Pittsburgh warns students wh 
j expect to travel much over 
J Christmas that transportation 
companies do not normally accept 
| personal checks in payment ot 
: fares. Also, it is virtually impos
sible to cash a personal check in 
! the city.
| The Society is not a check cashj ing agency and while they do trf 
i to be as helpful as possible, it 
would relieve their pressures con| siderably if students knew they 
; could not purchase tickets witli i personal checks.

---------------------------------------------------

Fase 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday. December 18, 1963
Associate Justice Clark 
Addresses NIC Conference
 Photo by Walter GraymanSolemn faces prevail over a CFP meeting as fraternity 
presidents discuss disciplinary changes for houses with low 
scholarship.
BULLETINBOARD
S 'n S Caroling
All students are invited to join 
with the members of the Scotch *n 
Soda Club in caroling at Chil
drens Hospital tonight, followed 
by a party at Beta Sigma Rho. 
The group will leave from Morewood Lobby at 6:00. Girls with 
curfews must sign out for carol
ing.
(continued from page 1) 
president of Beta Theta Pi Fra
ternity.
A number of distinguished 
speakers brought their observa
tions based on many experiences 
to the meeting. Delivering the 
keynote address at the principal 
banquet on December 6 was Tom 
Clark, Associate Justice of the 
Supreme Court of the United 
States. Justice Clark, a gradu
ate of the University of Texas, 
is a vice president of Delta Tau 
Delta Fratrnity.
In his speech, Justice Clark 
emphasized the important con
tributions fraternities make as 
an adjunct to college education. 
He stated that the fraternity sys
tem has proved to be an effec
tive testing ground for the prac
tical application of theories 
taught in the classroom but not 
experienced as part of any or
ganized curriculum.
Justice Clark also stressed the 
great need for a program to edu
cate the public, college admin
istrators and students in the val
ues of fraternities, emphasizing 
the basic precepts upon which 
fraternities are founded: religion - 
brotherliness - tolerance - respect 
for country, law and constituted 
authority - morality and learn
ing. A lack of all of these was 
displayed during the recent as
sassination of our president. Jus
tice Clark stated that only a full 
appreciation of these precepts 
will help develop boys fit for 
the fraternity of man, the great
est fraternity of all.
Folk Dance Club
The Folk Dance Club will meet 
in Skibo this coming Sunday, De
cember 22, the Sunday before 
school resumes, January 5, and 
every Sunday thereafter through 
the spring semester. Beginners 
are welcome.
This coming Sunday Ruth 
Browns, choreographer and lead
er of several San Francisco dance 
! groups, will hold a special work| shop on Greek and Israeli dances. 
The workshop is in Skibo, after
noon session 1-4 p.m., and evening 
session 8-11 p.m. For a list f 
dances to be taught or any further 
information contact Mr. Lave, 
ext. 542.
IAESTE
The deadline for filing applica
tions for IAESTE (International 
Association for the Exchange of 
Students for Technical Experi
ence) is January 1, 1964. All stu
dents desiring details of this pro
gram and/or application forms 
should see J. Dennis Ryan, Faculty 
Adviser for IAESTE in the Bureau 
of Placements.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . 
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
   and   
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
MEN 
HUSH PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HAMBURGER & PIZZA SHOP 
   
HAMBURGER - 15* 
PIZZA - 10< per cut 
  
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMITORIES
(Min. Order $1.50)
Open Weekdays Friday and Saturday
10 a.m. - 2 a.m.
MA 1-7388
10 a.m. - 3 a.m.
MU 2-8166
Corner Forbes and Bouquet

ALWAYS
Make sure you have enough 
water in the radiator. And in 
the winter add antifreeze. Put 
on chains to have efficient 
traction in the snow. Except, 
naturally, if you drive a Volks
wagen. In this case, just turn 
the key to start the engine and 
drive off. Go and keep going. 
This' is just ONE reason for 
Volkswagen being the leading 
import. Far ahead in front of 
the rest in performances, ser
vice. and also in resale value, 
of course. Call M. VV. Motors, 
now.
Today's Best Buy:
61 Volkswagen convertible
Fully Equipped, Like new$1395
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
(conti
Starts Today
4 DAYS ONLY 
NATALIE WOOD
WEST SIDE 
STORY
Best picture 
winner of 10 Academy 
Awards.
683-6992
E & S Seminar
The College of Engineering and 
Science will present a Seminar in 
Design with Dr. R. Louis Bright, 
Associate Director of Equipment 
and Systems Technology at Westinghouse Research Laboratories. 
The topic will be Systems Ap
proach to Engineering Problems. 
The seminar wil? be held Decem
ber 19, at 4:00 p.m. in Scaife Hall 
Auditorium. Faculty, graduate 
students, and all others who are 
interested are cordially invited to 
attend. Coffee will be served at 
3:45 p.m.
Campus Chest Solicitors
Will all Campus Chest Solicitors 
that have not turned in their en
velopes, please drop them in cam
pus mail.
I.E.E.E.
Tonight at 7:30 in Porter Hall 
100, Dr. Harvey Nathanson of 
Westinghouse Research Labs will 
discuss the Field Effect in semi
conductors and will introduce his 
new three-terminal semiconductor 
breakthrough, the High Field 
Triode. Dr. Nathanson will treat 
the extremely high input imped
ance and the reasonably high volt
age gain of this device, which the 
authors believe to be an electro
statically induced tunnelling ef
fect. Everyone is cordially invited 
to the program and to refresh
ments afterwards.
Classified Ads
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo. 
421-2083. Evenings.
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk GuitarFred Albitz  Featured at the Casban
and many other Pittsburgh spots  
and in clubs and bistros as far west as 
Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons 
at The Peter Hughes School of Music. 
Call: 731-1844. ________________
AUTO FOR SALE  '59 Plymouth, new 
paint job, snow tires, very good condi
tion, extras included, call evenings 
362-6859.
LOST  Would person who accidentally 
took my green trench coat from PiKA 
Dec. 6. 1963, please call Dennis Taylor, 
682-1474.
ITS A SLIGHT CASE OF LOVE AND 
LAUGHTER WHEN THESE 
LAWYERS GO COURTING!
A BRIEF LOOK AT THE HUMOUR OH THE LIGHTER 
SIDE OF THE LAW!
[ THE RANK ORGANIZATION PRESENTS 
I A BETTY E. BOX RALPH THOMAS PRODUCTION 
DISTRIBUTED BT DAVIS FILM DIST., INC.
/Zr/ MURRAY AT BEACON 
UUllu JA. 1-0700
DAILY: 6:32  8:24  10:16
SAT. & SUN.:
2:48  4:40  6:32  8:24  10:16
The Most Eutmmdmmv Sion Ever Fumed!
StnFpoitier
 ^ IS HOME* IN
 ,, RALPHi
T Nelson s T
V,
BEST ACTOR 
SIDNEY P0ITIER % 
1963 Berlin 
Film FestivalReleased thru UNITED ARTISTS
Held Over 7fth WeekFORVM
IPHONE4216400
F|j
HAMLET ST. THEATER
Holiday Laugh Hit!SUNDAYNelNEWYORK
/ A Comedy by NORMAN KRASNA/
HAMLET ST. THEATER 
Beginning Sot., Dcc. 21st
7th Week - WEST SIDE STORY
Sun-Fri. $1.50 Sat. S2.00  Tues-Sat. 8:30 Sun. 7:30
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT PITT BOOKSTORE|

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Decem'ber 18, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Tikgm S
Your Man In Congress
Tom Pyk^ read a communication from Dean Brown to 
the effect that the Friday after Thanksgiving has been rein
stated as a vacation, in accordance with the proposal of 
Student Government. Dean Brown implied that the favor
able impression made by Executive Councils veto of the 
emonstration was largely responsible. The Chairman of 
Congress restated the issues in the conflict; the Congress 
had felt that the demonstration would be a completely con
structive measure, merely to indicate the calibre of student 
feeling, but the Executive Council realized that the admin
istration would be very hurt at such a move. Indirectly, 
then, the demonstration was responsible for the reinstate
ment of Friday, and we didnt even have to carry it off!
Dick Elder has been made the new General Campus 
I Committee chairman. Committee reports included: The 
I Union Committee informed us that a juke box for Skibo 
l^nack Bar was included in tHe schools long-range plans 
Ffor the improvements of Skibo, and it might be installed 
I over Christmas vacation. TGIF will be held in the Snack 
| Bar in the future. Rules Committee is revising the Student 
I Handbook and asks that any student who believes that a 
I rule needs to be revised, submit the suggestion to the Rules 
[ Committee, S.C. Spring Carnival Committee Chairman 
| Blaine Cliver announced the formation of the Committee 
I for Carnival 64. The 1964 Spring Carnival Budget was apI proved without change. This year there will be Friday 
I evening concert tickets available for a single person for 
.80 in addition to the double weekender for $5.50.
A motion from the floor suggested that a budget be 
I submitted to Congress biannually.
Committee meetings of the Constitution, Union, GenI eral Campus, and Rules Committees were announced.
M.H.1 *__ _.____  --------- . ----   --------
Publications Win Prizes
(continued from page 1)
change of pace in the size and 
shape of the pictures. There is 
effective cropping of pictures and 
good use of white space.
3Division pages: The division 
pages have an interesting use of 
high contrast photography and 
tinted stock.
4Cover: The cover is net and 
in good taste. The excellent pho
tography and its effective display
is the strongest part of this book.
Also winning prizes were the 
Patterns, third prize in the literary 
magazine competition; and the 
Carnegie Technical, receiving re
cognition for fine quality in the 
engineering magazine category.
The local chapter of Pi Delta 
Epsilon wishes to congratulate its 
publications on their fine work 
and encourage them to improve 
their literary standards further 
this year.
Readers Write
Steffen Praises 
Professionalism 
Of Concert
Editor, The Tartan:
As comment in the Tartan is 
usually restricted to either your 
editorial, columnist or to Read
ers Write, perhaps you will per
mit me to comment in this let
ter on the International Club 
Concert held last Sunday in the 
Fine Arts Theatre. The concert, 
produced by the members of the 
Department of Music was excel
lent. The artists can be proud 
that they represented the best 
of professionalism. Their stand
ards of performance were of a 
high level, demonstrating and 
fulfilling the long periods of 
specialized training they must 
have undertaken to produce a 
concert of such a high caiiber.
If this concert is the end re
sult of professionalism, then let 
there be more of it on the Tech 
Campus, for performances like 
this can only heighten the 
standards by which we, as pro
fessionals, would like to be 
judged.
Tom Steffen
GSIA
? ? ?
Y Sponsors
(continued from page 1)
find a free rope tow, beginners 
and intermediate ski slopes, to
boggan runs, a skating pond, and 
several trails for winter hiking. 
Sleds, toboggans, a -few skates, 
and and some ski equipment are 
available without charge.
A $10.00 registration deposit, 
paid in the Y Office (57 Skibo) by 
January 7 will reserve a place for 
you with the group thats going.
Tech Crushes Indiana S. 83-68 
Newell/ Kalin, McGreary Lead
A different starting combinaI lion and renewed spirit, com
bined with 26 points by Sopho
more Jim Newell, 18 points by 
Freshman Jeff Kalin, and 14 reI bounds by George McGeary, 
I sparked the Tartans to a seasonm evening 83-68 victory over In
diana State College at Skibo Gym 
Saturday night.
The Tartan defense tangled it
self up as Indiana moved under 
their basket to score the first 
points of the game, but from then 
on the Tartans were seldom in 
such a position. McGeary scored 
the first Tech points on a layup 
almost immediately and then reL bounded an Indiana miss to start 
Fa fast break which brought Borkowski into the clear and allowed 
him an unguarded drive for two 
points.
Indiana initiated a full court 
press to try to stop the Tartan 
attack, but Tech repeatedly broke 
it to score on easy layups or to 
I start their offense which was 
breaking Newell, Borkowski, and 
Kalin into the open for shots 
L they were converting.
I Tech pressed their 10-6 lead 
with five minutes gone in the 
game to a 38-35 lead at the half, 
as all of the starters and sixth 
man Hank Werronen were constributing their parts to the at
tack both on offensive scoring 
and on the blocked shots and 
scramble on defense.
Rather than wilting in the second half, Tech was strengthening 
I as Kalin continued hitting on 
i turn-around jump shots from the 
| foul line and Newell built his 
i average with 10 for 11 from the 
floor and 6 for 7 at the foul line. 
McGeary began serious rebound
ing and with occasional relief 
from 5-10 Foels they successfully 
cleared the boards and began the
fast breaks which killed Indiana. 
With little help from a 34% shoot
ing average, Indiana slowly witled 
as the Tartans increased their 
lead to the final 83-68 score.
Coach Cratsley attributed the 
Victory to a very good team ef
fort and to the fact that the team
(continued on page 4)
Tecli Swimmers Show Improvcm 
Andrews Leads in Scoring
by Randy French
The Tech swimming team open
ed their season against Grove 
City Saturday at the Grove City 
pool. The powerful Grove City 
team, which has been undefeated 
for the last two years and has 
won the Penn-Ohio Championship 
meet for the past three seasons, 
immediately took the lead by win
ning the first event. The Grovers 
finished the meet with 65 points 
to Techs 30.
Considering the opposition, 
probably the strongest team on 
Techs schedule, the team did 
better than expected, even though 
they were without two of their 
swimmers. Geary Andrews, the 
most valuable swimmer last year, 
was unable to attend. Also, a 
freshman, Bill Cotsworth, will not 
be able to swim until the last 
meet because of an operation. 
Tech took two first places, two
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Further Doubts
Last week the subject of knowledge was discussed; It 
was concluded that nothing can be known beyond doubt. 
But if nothing can be known beyond doubt, then the as
sertion that nothing can be known beyond doubt cannot be 
known beyond doubt. This line of reasoning could be ex
tended indefinitely. While it is interesting to discuss such 
questions, they do not give much comfort to a person who 
thinks he exists. If a person accepts the thesis that no sup
posed fact can be accepted beyond doubt, how can he live 
if, in fact, he does live?
In this case the answer suggested here is simple: The 
individual should assume whatever he feels necessary to 
enable him to organize his thoughts and actions in whatever 
fashion he pleases. If a person feels F=Ma is a valid qual
ity or that there is a necessary relationship between cause 
and effect, he may assume this is true, and base his actions 
accordingly. The person should recognize that he is assum
ing whatever he is assuming, howeveror he will be giving 
himself a sense of false security.
In this way a man may choose to accept or reject any 
supposed facts brought to his attention on the basis of his 
experienceor any other basis for that matter. An example 
would be the decision whether to accept as a fact the exis
tence of a God or not. If this idea is accepted then man can 
be more secure than he would otherwise be. From this idea 
he can perhaps derive facts similar to the ideas that vir
tuous men will go to heaven, or that God came to Earth 
(his mother was a virgin!), died to enable men to be 
saved, and then rose in three days. It must be admitted 
that it is possible that such ideas are entirely true, but to 
this person it seems somewhat ridiculous to assume them 
just because they were stated in a book written in days 
when many other books that are today thought supersti
tious were written. After all, can it be proven that the 
sun is not really God (or a God anyway)? The fact that 
millions of persons accept theories that are on the face of 
them not very reasonable (almost laughable) does not say 
much for the opinions held by large groupsespecially 
when these millions divide into groupseach claiming 
that all the others are wrong. How can a group accept 
miracles that prove its case while rejecting other relig
ions miracles?
A few arguments against organized religions were pre
sented last week, but this column is not long enough to 
begin to present many. The purpose of this article is to 
present the authors opinions, and perhaps to raise snme 
doubts.
TRASH!
*feCARNEGI
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOk*V
more than they took last year. 
Grove City won the remaining in
dividual events as well as both 
relays.
Senior captain, Len Lester, led 
the Tech scorers with a first in 
the 500 yard freestyle and a sec
ond in the 200 yard individual 
medley. The only other first was 
Bill Burdett in the 200 yard but
terfly. Freshman A1 Wolff finished 
second in the 500 yard free and 
third in the 200 free. Frank Wy
man took second in the 200 but
terfly and third in the 200 in
dividual medley. Randy French 
and Dave Spect took seconds in 
the 100 free and 200 breastroke. 
Freshman Pete Hutter and Dave 
Keiffer. and sophomore John 
Bennett rounded out Techs scor
ing.
With only one senior and three 
(continued on page 4)
Editor in-Chief.............................................Miron Straf
Managing Editor .............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager..................................Michael McCoy
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor............................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor ...............................Alma Rock
Features Editor...........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ...............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ................................John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ...........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ....................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Bate S2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, VOLUM
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editorial Board: Charles Hofook. Annie Moser, Margie Park. Peggy Riva.
News Staff: Dale Chodorow, Bob Fritz, Callie Gilleland, Miriam Gillespie. Tom 
Glassberg, Bob Griscom, Karen Miihm, Marti Moore, Marion Mulligan, Jim 
Panepinto, Ellisa barker, Peggy Riva, Penny Ross, Gretchen Smith, Bob 
Wohlford.
Features Staff: Jeffrey Axelrad, Tyler Burt, Irene Grandberg. Martha Hodgson, 
Arlene Kadish. Marion Mulligan. Carolyn Rysnar, Sue Wells. Stephen Yafa.
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, R.andy French, A1 Green, 
Chris Macosko.
Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Philofsky, Ted 
Pierce. Marion Mulligan.
Copy Staff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk. Jane Keeler. Mary Lon 
Recco, Ginny Salko, Ginny Uliss. Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Vera 
Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian. Beth Carten, Janls Cummings. Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karnell. Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino
grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kail. J. E Miller, Tom Chamberlin.
Photo staff: Tom Clements, Jim Pawley, Jo O'Connor, Johns Osia*, Howard 
Schwartz.

---------------------------------------------------

 Photo by Walter Graymar5-10" Steve Foels rebounds for Tech.
Tech Tromples Waynesburg
It is quite possible that the 
championship may have been de
cided in the semi-finals in the 
game between the Dorm-Trojans 
and the Grads. Here, a superlative 
team effort by Charis Raiders 
netted two quick 15-4 and 15-12 
decisions over the Grads. In the 
other semi-final encounter, SAE 
took two straight from the Tau 
Delts by scores of 15-9 and 15-13.
In quarter-final action, TDP de
feated the defending champions, 
ATO, 15-10 and 15-6, while SAE 
trounced BTP in two straight 
games, 15-4 and 15-2. The DormTrojans entered the semi-finals on 
the strength of 15-4 and 16-4 de
cisions over the Marauders, while 
the Grad Eagles downed DTD by 
scores of 15-3 and 15-4 after they 
dropped a 15-3 decision to the 
Delts.
Rifle Team 
Slips By W & J
Carnegie Tech will not have a 
closer rifle match all season than I 
the one in which they barely defeated Washington and Jefferson, j
The final score was 1374 to 
1374. The tie was broken by 
counting the total number of Xx 
for each team, that is, the num
ber of tens in which the bullet 
hole did not touch the nine ring. 
Tech came out on top by a score 
of 47-45.
The lose was a heartbreaker for 
W & J who had earlier lost a 
match to Duqeusne in the same 
way 42-41. On the other hand, 
it was a relief for Coach Murphy ' 
who had been sweating quite a 
bit after Phil Meyers dropped j 
seven points below his average 
in the first relay.
Phil wound up with a 276, his 
lowest output of the season. Bob 
Fritz one again saved the day 
with a 282 including a 93 in the 
standing position. Scott McCor
mick and Joe Schlitt broke 270 
and finished with 274 and 273 
respectively. Tuck Arnold round
ed out the scoring with a 268.
The win brought Techs record 
to 2-2 but the score indicated 
that Tech will be hurting until 
next semester when Mike Knepley and Mike Ray, two 280 shoot
ers, should rejoin the team.
Tech went to Waynesburg to 
prove that John Carroll had beat
en them on their own errors two 
nights before. They came home 
confident of it as they put to
gether their man-to-man offense 
with spirited team play to crush 
an impotent Waynesburg team 
79-38.
Coach Mel Cratsley used his 
first five sparingly, choosing not 
even to dress Ray Metz because of 
a bad ankle, with the develop
ing rout of a young, completely 
outclassed Waynesburg team. 
Neither the offense nor the de
fense of the home team proved 
effective as the Tartans were roll
ing up a 31-23 half-time lead 
i using their man-for-man offense 
I and switching between zone and 
man-to-man defense.
Tech never allowed the game to . 
degenerate into a boring rout, 
however, as they held to their of
fense which was driving the score | 
up and increasing their confidence i 
in themselves as the game proi 
[ gressed. Steve Foels and Ray j 
Morrison supplied the outside; 
scoring punch for Tech with 15 
| and 13 points respectively with 
Jim Newell following closely on 
; a six-for-seven night with 12 
points. None of the Waynesburg 
team could even break into double
Tech Splits 
Swim Meets
(continued from page 3) 
juniors on the team, most of the 
responsibility rests on the sopho
mores and the new freshmen. The 
freshmen who show a bright fu| ture for the team are freestylers 
Pete Hutter and A1 Wolff, back| stroker Dave Kieffer, and butteri flyer Marc Liebman. Since the 
| team only graduated one senior 
| last year, the added freshman 
have given depth and intersquad 
! competition to the team. Techs 
j first home meet is this Wednesday 
| at 4:00 against Westminster. Last 
year Tech beat the Titans by one 
j point, indicating a close meet.
figures as Tech ran away with'the 
game 79-38.
TECH
fs*ffftptsreb
Morrison161134
Foels971154
Kalin51240
Niedra42265
McGeary42048
Werronen104086
Borkowski31130
Cupps51135
Thomas00003
Newell760122
Burdette71134
Keefer33060
Johnson 110WAYNESBURG
20
Dublino50002
ChaddertonG2371
Dusman31021
Surouy21023
Kelly72159
Stohl91352
Augustine31133
Baer10225
Bailey62040
Girardin42041
Lestlor82042
All-Pen cartridges fit all these pens
Guaranteed for
--------- i  Sheaffer_ . Parker
 Esterbrook
CA#Ti3;0G.ES Wearever
BKXSS  Venus
4'  Eversharo
For two-pen studentsfor 
those with pen-giving rela
tives. Be preparedstart using All-Pen ink cartridges iniour present cartridge pen! 
>ont walk a mile for a 
cartridge. Come in and get All-Pen Cartridges.Washable Blue, Washable 
Black, Peacock Blue, Jet 
Black, Cardinal Red, Blue 
Black and Green.
Get All-Pen Cartridges 
6 for 39c or 8 for 49o
CIT 
Book Store
Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, December 18, 196S-----------------------------------------------------------------------------V,
Newell Leads T art ans
McGreary
(continued from page 3) 
held the ball and played the kind 
of offense they had to play. If 
we hold the ball like we did to
night, we will have a good year.
TECH
fga fe tt reb pts
Newell 1 10 6 1 26
Kalin 13 9 0 8 18
Foels 1 5 2 4 12McGeary 5 3 1 14 7
Rebounds
Borkowski1250s1Werronen32347
Morrison3111*
INDIANA
Rajaski10396
Bence13541114
Benhart2062614
Hankinson113441
Spingola3105Yun52246McLenahan11234Stadmiller11024
Kalp0010I
Dorm-Trojans 
Capture Title
Meanwhile, the Grad Eagles 
squared off against TDP in the 
consolation game. For a while it 
appeared that the Grads were go
ing to be played right off the floor. 
With Marty Skowron spiking 
beautifully, the Tau Delts won the 
opener 15-5, and assumed an early 
lead in the second contest. How
ever, the excellent defensive play 
of Joe Lees, and the all-around 
talents of veteran Fred Kosofsky 
began to take their toll, and the 
Grads took the second and third 
contests by 15-9 and 15-6 scores, 
thus clinching third place.
Venu Charis Dorm Trojans, 
Techs undegraduate sequel to 
Fred Kosofsky and his Grad 
Eagles, served notice to their con
temporaries Thursday night that 
they are going to have to be re
cognized as a contender for the 
I.M. All-Sports Trophy as they 
claimed the volleyball champion
ship by taking two of three games 
from SAE. The Dorm-Trojans 
won the opener 15-4, but lost the 
next one 17-15 as Harvey Gam
mon led a determined SAE come
back. In the clincher, however, the 
fire power of John Regan, Bill 
Oakes, Jack Roberts, and Co. 
proved decisive, and the DormTrojans claimed the championship 
with a 15-2 victory.
(Auihor of Rally Round, the Flag, Boys!" 
and Barefoot Boy With Cheek'*)
SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE 
AND JAZZ LIKE THAT
I am now an elderly gentleman, full of years and aches, but 
my thoughts keep ever turning to my undergraduate days. This 
is called arrested development.
But I cannot stop the healing tide of nostalgia that washes 
over me as I recall those golden campus days, those ivy-covered 
buildings (actually, at my college, there was only ivy: no bricks), 
those pulse-tingling lectures on John Dryden and Cotton 
Mather, the many friends I made, the many deans I bit.
I know some of you are already dreading the day when you 
graduate and lose touch with all your merry classmates. It is 
my pleasant task today to assure you that it need not be so; 
all you have to do is join the Alumni Association and every year 
you will receive a bright, newsy, chatty bulletin, chock-full of 
tidings about your old buddies.
Oh, what a red-letter day it is at my house, the day the 
Alumni Bulletin arrives! I cancel all my engagements, take the 
phone off the hook, dismiss my resident osteopath, put the 
cheetah outside, and settle down for an evening of pure pleasure 
with the Bulletin and (need I add?) a good supply of Marlboro 
Cigarettes.
Whenever I am having fun, a Marlboro makes the fun even 
more fun. That filter, that flavor, that yielding soft pack, that 
firm Flip Top box, never fails to heighten my pleasure whether 
I am playing Double Canfield or watching the radio or knitting 
an afghan or enjoying any other diverting pursuit you might 
nameexcept, of course, spear fishing. But then, how much 
spear fishing does one do in Clovis, New Mexico, where I live?
But I digress. Let us return to my Alumni Bulletin and the 
fascinating news about my old friends and classmates. I quote 
from the current issue:
Well, fellow alums, it certainly has been a wing-dinger of a 
year for us old grads! Remember Mildred Cheddar and Harry 
C'amembert, those crazy kids who always held hands in Econ II? 
Well,,theyre married now and living in Clovis, New Mexico, 
where Harry rents spear-fishing equipment, and Mildred has just 
given birth to a lovely 28-pound daughter, her second in four 
months. Nice going, Mildred and Harry!
Remember Jethro Brie, the man we voted most likely to 
succeed? Well, old Jethro is still gathering laurels! I-ast week 
he was voted Motorman of the Year by his fellow workers in 
the Duluth streetcar system. I owe it all to my brakeman/ 
said Jethro in a characteristically modest acceptance speech. 
Same old Jethro!
Probably the most glamorous time had by any of us old 
alums was had by Francis Macomber last year. He went on a 
big game hunting safari all the way to Africa! We received many 
interesting post cards from Francis until he was, alas, acci
dentally shot and killed by his wife and white hunter. Tough 
luck, Francis!
Wilametta Deadeye Macomber, widow of the late beloved 
Francis Macomber, was married yesterday to Fred Sureshot 
Sigafoos, white hunter, in a simple double-ring ceremony in 
Nairobi. Many happy returns, Wilametta and Fred!
Well, alums, that just about wraps it up for this year. 
Buy bonds I# 1963 Max Shulmaa
  
Old grads, new grads, undergrade, and non-grads all agreer 
that good Richmond tobacco recipe, that clean Selectrate 
filter, have turned all fifty states of the Union into Marlboro 
Country. Won't you join the throng?
