fhe Newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 15, February 4, 1986.
IFC recommends Kappa Delta Rhob, NATALIE CAPONE '  Vi P ^9-mPmKpr fro forr 1 ic KttBy NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffuiriter
The Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) voted 
in its January 28th meeting to recommend 
to the University that Kappa Delta Rho 
receive the old Zeta Beta Tau house.
Only eleven of the twelve houses in frater
nity quadrangle presently hold fraternities; 
the twelfth, which previously held Zeta Beta 
Tau fraternity, is now a freshman male 
dorm.
There are three fraternities who would 
like to move into the available house: Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, Kappa Delta Rho, and Tau Delta 
Phi. The University will make the final deci
sion concerning the available house.
IFC President Adam Susser opened the 
meeting with a question/answer session 
which gave IFC members a chance to ask the 
presidents of each of the three contending 
fraternities questions about their fraternities 
advantages, disadvantages, and 
backgrounds. Because this was the second 
time that the IFC had such an opportunity, 
there were no questions.
The IFC would like all three fraternities 
to be recognized, Susser explained, and is 
investigating the possibilities of a social 
status for fraternities who cannot obtain 
University housing. The IFC is writing a let
ter to the Administration voicing what it 
feels are the advantages and disadvantages 
of each of the three contending fraternities, 
and which fraternity it would recommend 
fill the house if forced to selected only one. 
Susser said that the letter will suggest that 
the University recognize the other two frater
nities in some way, with suggested IFC 
guidelines for recognition as social frater
nities.
The 32-member fraternity is headed by 
President Dan Pavord. Kappa Delta Rho has 
existed at Carnegie Mellon before, disban
ding in 1939. It began again in 1983, and 
has been meeting on a weekly basis for more 
than two years. Susser said that Kappa Delta 
Rho has the IFCs full support for recogni
tion if the University chooses only one house 
to go into fraternity quadrangle. (Kappa 
Delta Rho) is the piece the IFC feels will fit 
best in the already existing Greek system.
The IFC also voted on whether or not to 
recommend that the University recognize the 
other groups as social organizations within 
the Greek system. IFC members debated the 
merits not only of Alpha Epsilon Pi and Tau 
Delta Phi, but also of granting social 
recognition at all.
John Long, of Pi Lambda Phi said that 
he sees recognizing Alpha Epsilon Pi and 
Tau Delta Phi as an opportunity to expand 
the Greek system. If we recognize these two 
fraternities, and the University recognizes 
them, the University will be forced to address 
an issue that we want them to face: mainly, 
the housing status of Greeks. Do we have to 
stay on University property forever and ever 
and ever?
The strength of the new fraternities was 
questioned, as was the two groups interac
tion with the other Greek organizations on 
campus. However, after examining the 
backgrounds of the two groups, which were 
given at the last IFC meeting, the IFC voted 
to recognize both groups.
Alpha Epsilon Pi, one of the two frater
nities whose recognition the IFC will push 
for, presently has 19 active brothers on the 
CMU campus. Presently, it is an official col
ony with the national group, but not a
The old ZBT House is up for grabs.
chapter. It is waiting for University recogni
tion that will allow it to receive its chapter 
charter. The University of Pittsburgh 
chapter of Alpha Epsilon Pi, President 
Bruce Krulwich said, has been helping the 
CMU brothers to establish the fraternity 
here. The brothers of Alpha Epsilon Pi are 
proud of the diversity of their group, noting 
that each brother is involved in at least one 
other activity. Krulwich said Even if we cant 
get a house, Alpha Epsilon Pi is here. Its go
ing to exist as a group, and were trying for 
recognition as a fraternity.
Tau Delta Phi also received the support 
of the IFC to be recognized as a social frater
nity. Although Tau Delta Phi has been refer
red to as the reformed ZBT fraternity which 
disbanded last year, leavingits-house vacant, 
70 percent of Tau Delta Phis brothers were 
not members of ZBT. The fraternity em
phasizes its strict screening process, and takes 
pride in its strong brotherhood. While the 
fraternity has no national group, the IFC 
stressed Tau Delta Phis strong alumni sup
port as an advantage. President Jeff Russo 
said that I came in (to the IFC meeting) 
feeling confident, and I'm leaving still feel
ing confident, despite the fact that Kappa 
Delta Rho will receive the IFCs primary 
recommendation for the available house.
CMU named Center for Study of Writing
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon, in conjuncture with the 
University of California (Berkeley), has been 
named the National Center for the Study of 
Writing by the National Institute of Educa
tion. The five year, $4 million grant, fund
ed by the Department of Education, was 
awarded on the basis of a joint proposal by 
the two schools, as well as Carnegie Mellons 
reputation for outstanding programs in 
cognitive psychology and rhetoric (techni
ques of effective writing and speaking). 
Other grants awarded include the Center for 
Reading at the University of Illinois and the 
Center for Learning at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
Research of writing is a relatively young 
but rapidly growing field. Linda Flowers, 
project administrator, calls the Center the 
first major commitment the DOE has made 
to writing. Co-directors Flowers and John 
R. Hayes plan to study writing as a cognitive 
(thinking) process. A main objective of the 
study is to determine the different ways in 
which people approach writing tasks. Close 
attention will be paid to the methods used 
in organization procedures, time allotments, 
information searching, and the goals writers 
set for themselves and their writings. 
Berkeley will look at the circumstances and 
situations surrounding the writer and the 
task. These two angles fall under the general 
aim of the study: writing as a cognitive proJudy ResnikIn Memory
fly VIJAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon held a memorial service 
for 36 years old mission specialist Dr. Judith 
Arlene Resnik who died in the Jan. 29 space 
shuttle explosion. Judy Resnik was last 
honored by Carnegie Mellon in 1985 when 
she was awarded a Distinguished Alumni
Award.
Dr. Richard M. Cyert described Judy 
Vesnik as "a woman with a spine of steel 
who had goals and was determined to ac
complish those goals. Provost Angel G. Jor
dan said, Judy always did what she wanted
lo do, she died doing what she wanted to do,
exploring, looking for challenges.
Dr. Resnik was a classical pianist who 
received her undergraduate degree in Elec
trical Engineering from Carnegie Mellon in 
1970. Judy was born April 5, 1949 in Akron, 
Ohio. She graduated from Akrons Firestone 
Senior High School in 1966.
After graduating from Carnegie Mellon, 
Dr. Resnik joined the RCA Missile and Sur
face Radar division in Moorestown, N.J. In 
1974, she became a biomedical engineer and 
staff fellow in the neurophysiology laboratory 
of the National Institute of Health in 
Bethesda, Md. While in Maryland she comcontinued on page 3
cess within a social context. Berkeley will 
concentrate more on children in grades 
K-12, whereas Carnegie Mellon will be 
researching at the college level. Directors of 
both centers are planning a lot of interac
tion between the two, especially in the form 
of information sharing.
The Center will present their findings to 
educators as teachable learning tools. By be
ing sensitive to real-world problems in 
writing and research implementation, 
teachers may be able to speed the learning 
of cognitive writing strategies. The Researchto-Teaching Seminars program offers travel
ing seminars on a variety of topics, including 
applications of the Centers findings to 
teaching, and anticipating the needs of an
Judy Resnik, Class of 1970
audience. Says Nancy Penrose, Coordinator 
of the seminars, Our work is not just to do 
research, but to get the results our there. 
The Center is committed to making research 
available to teaching. This includes 
educators in all disciplines, not just those in 
English or writing fields. The Center also 
foresees the formation of networks of resear
chers and others interested in writing, begin
ning in Pittsburgh and eventually spreading 
nationwide.
continued on page 2
In This Issue:
News
Probation..................................page 2
Philippines Election..............page 7
Features
Suicide......................................page 9
High Tech accidents..........page 11
Entertainment
MARAT/SADE......................page 13
The Spectator.......................page 17
 Sports
^ Terlecki returns to Spirit....page 19
 Men's Hoops Victorious....page 20
oo
| Editorial.....................................page 24a.
ACME.......................................page 27

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
Are more students failing out?
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Do Carnegie Mellon students have a pro
blem surviving the rigors of the campus? 
Have a larger number of students received 
suspensions than in the past? Do freshman 
meet the standards of previous classes or 
have admissions standards dropped? This 
issue of student attrition on Carnegie Mellon 
has become a major topic of conversation 
around campus.
According to many members of the facul
ty, however, this concern exists unheeded. 
Brad Walters, Dean of Student Affairs said, 
My understanding is that our attrition, rate 
is low for the academic rigors of CMU. 
Walters .quoting The Comparative Guide to 
American Colleges, said 75-80% of students 
who enter Carnegie Mellon eventually 
graduate. This same source said that 5-9% of 
freshman do not return for sophomore year.
Walters attributed the universitys overall 
high retention figure to a number of fac
tors. I think most students know the dif
ficulty before they come. Most applicants are 
potentially eligible. In addition our students 
tend to be much more professionally 
oriented or have a more definite orientation 
about what they want to do. He credited this 
orientation with giving students a greater 
motivation to perform and achieve. Walters 
also cited the recent amount of publicity the 
school has received with creating greater 
stability.
The November/December issue of Focus, 
the faculty and staff publication of Carnegie 
Mellon, recently addressed the issue of at
trition. According to the article by Ted 
Coen, ...the class of 86 had already lost 
23.8 percent of its numbers by its junior year 
(Fall 84). However, the same article stated 
that these numbers take into account not on
ly suspensions, dropouts and transfers but
early graduates, students who take time off, 
participants in 3-2 programs, and any 
students who take longer than four years to 
graduate.
Dean Bob Kail of CIT/MCS addressed the 
problem of attrition a it applies to these col
leges specifically. According to numbers 
reported by Kail, in the Fall of 83, these 
schools showed an attrition rate of 1.5 per
cent, in the Spring of 84, 3.7 percent, in 
the Fall of 85, 1.14 percent, and in the 
Spring of 85, 3.33 percent. He also stated 
that some group of students always disap
pears, and that no numbers exist for these 
students. Last Fall we asked 26 people to 
leave due to academic performance which 
showed a grade point average below a 2.0 
for two semesters. The numbers are usually 
higher in the Spring because if students are 
marginal we like to give them a chance un
til the Spring, said Kail.
No student receives suspension without at 
least three or four letters of warning which 
begin after a students QPA falls below a 2.0 
on their mid-semester grades. Kail listed a 
number of reasons why students fail to meet 
these academic requirements. I really 
believe most students can handle the work. 
Those who dont make it fall into two 
categories. I think some students are really 
bright and havent really worked before 
because success came easily to them in high 
school. Many times these students arent 
ready to realize they must start studying; 
they dont even have good study habits. A 
second reason may be that its the first time 
in their lives that students are independent 
with nobody looking over their shoulder. 
Students are considered mature to handle 
a priority plan and they just arent.
Kail also said that some students come to 
school and for some reason they just play. 
He said many students dont attend class but
THE ARMY ROTC 2-YEAR PROGRAM. UP TO $1000 AYEAR PLUS A COMMISSION.
If you passed up Army 
ROTC during your first two 
years of college, you can 
enroll in our 2-year pro
gram before you start your 
last two.
Your training will start 
the summer after your 
sophomore year at a six-week 
Army ROTC Basic Camp.
Itll pay off, too. Youll 
earn over $600 for attend
ing Basic Camp and up to 
$ 1,000 a year for your last 
two years of college.
But, more important, 
youll be on your way to earn
ing a commission in todays 
Armywhich includes the 
Army Reserve and Army 
National Guardwhile youre 
earning a college degree.
ARMY ROTC 
BEALLYOUCANBE.
Two Year Scholarships 
Also Available 
Application Deadline Is 
26 February 
No Obligation to Apply
Stop by MMCB7 or 
Call 268-2205 
or
Talk To DEE NYZIO 
At x4608
that these make up a very small number.
When questioned about the level of stan
dards for admission to the University, Kail 
said he thinks that if anything, standards 
have increased. He said that objective data 
including average college board scores, 
achievement scores, and class ranks have 
shown higher numbers.
Jay Devine of H&SS echoed these feelings 
that attrition rates at Carnegie Mellon re
main comfortable with no need to worry. He 
saw attrition as an interesting problem to 
get a grip on. Devine said the net retention 
rate for this college has come out as 100 per
cent. This figure includes those students who 
leave H&SS and those who transfer into the 
college. Even the non-adjusted retention 
rate looks healthy at about 80 percent, 
which he called an unfixed figure.
An annual phenomenon in H&SS occurs 
at the end of many sophomores years when 
those in the IM program enter their major 
which lies outside the college. This occur
rence may cause the school to appear that 
students leave when in reality they have 
simply changed colleges.
Devine stated financial problems, 
academic departures at the schools request, 
and transfers as the primary reasons for 
students leaving. In addition, said students 
may leave the college without leaving the 
University. He also said figures may reflect 
students who take a leave of absence with 
every indication of returning. We base at
trition rates on enrollments numbers but 
they show up as attrition. In order to meet 
academic requirements within H&SS, 
students must maintain a minimum of 1.75 
during freshman year, and a 2.0 every year 
after that, assuming they are carrying a 
minimum of 42 units. Requirements are ad
justed if students carrying fewer than thisWriting Center
continued from page 1
Carnegie Mellons image will be greatly 
enhanced by the Center. The humanities are 
too often overshadowed by the strengths of 
engineering, computer science and the fine 
arts. The addition of the Center will em
phasize H&SSs strong points.
amount of units. According to Devine, the 
school does everything possible to avoid ask
ing students to leave on these grounds.
Students hear from us if they dont take 
initiative themselves. We monitor them con
stantly. We have mechanisms so that the 
faculty can let us know if they suspect a pro
blem called the Academic Early Warning 
System. This consists of a memo telling instructors clues that a student may be hav
ing trouble. If a faculty member does suspect 
a problem we have a students advisor see 
him immediately, said Devine.
Devine said students and faculty have a 
fairly direct confrontation. The advisor says 
Explain this to me and they talk about why 
the student may be having problems and the 
implications if the problems persist. We spell 
out the scenario of events that will occur.
According to Devine, the success rate at 
Carnegie Mellon remains high. He credits 
incoming students with progressively better 
qualifications. He says that because of this 
higher level of quality, instructors have made 
courses more sophisticated to meet this level 
of student.
Those students that fail at the campus 
dont expect the rigors of the campus. Devine 
says some students enter with false expecta
tions or have trouble adapting to the new 
academic and social environment.
Finally, Devine believes that many 
students come to the University determined 
...to stick it out in the major for them. 
Students struggle through a major not suited 
to their strengths rather than study in a field 
more suited to their capabilities for whatever 
reason. He believes the Core Curriculum at 
Carnegie Mellon gives students a broad base 
program in which to find areas of greater 
aptitude but not everyone pays attention to 
those lessons.
Carnegie Mellon President Richard M. 
Cyert predicts that the Center will have 
enormous influence in both the research 
and educational communities and will be a 
highly visible trend setter in the teaching 
and study of writing.
*
STACK n TOTESTORAGE CONTAINERS
 Designer colors  Industrial strength 
 Heavy duty plastic  In 2 sizes/6 colors
Create a storage wallPerfect for books, toys, 
clothing, etc.
#3024 (19"U13"Wx11"H)$15/set of 3 + $3/set shipping charges ($18/set total)
#3016 conotiuedonotiupdoouag$10/set of 3 + $3/set shipping charges ($13/set total)
pni noc.
RED, WHITE, BLACK, BLUE YELLOW &MARBLBZED
ITMV Industries. PO. Box 35 I Shrewsbury, NJ 07701
NAME
ADDRESS 
CITY___STATE.ZIP
Item #_Quantity(sold in sets of 3 only)
Color(s).
? Check enclosed 
Total Payment:__(includes S3/set shipping & handling)
012
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
j

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 3
Space exploration will go on
By OLVE PEERSEN
Tartan Managing Editor
The explosion of the space shuttle 
Challenger is not a knockout punch for the 
shuttle according to Robert Sekerka, Dean 
of Mellon College of Science.
The space program is im
portant to us. Its going to go 
on for political reasons, for 
economic reasons, and for 
military reasons.,,
Dean Sekerka
Dean Sekerka is a member of NASAs 
Space Application Advisory Committee 
(SAAC), and is chairman of the subcommit
tee on Microgravity Science and Applica
tions. Over the past fifteen years he has been 
advising NASA on material science and fluid 
dynamics experiments designed to take ad
vantage of the zero gravity found in space.
In 25 years of manned space travel, NASA 
has only lost three astronauts. They were 
Virgil Grissom, Edward White, and Roger 
Chaffee, who died in the Jan. 27, 1967 fire 
aboard Apollo I during a launch simulation. 
The loss of the seven crewmembers of the 
Challenger marks the first lives lost in flight. 
Sekerka points to this as proof of how good 
NASA has been when it comes to the safety 
of the manned space program. The multi
ple aborted launches due to computer detec
tion of potential problems further proves 
that if NASA is anything, it is excessively 
cautious.
The precedent of 24 successful shuttle
flights proves that its a pretty well design
ed ship, not perfect, but good says Sekerka. 
If this had happened on one of the first mis
sions the effect on the program would have 
been much more severe. Because of the ac
cident, the shuttle program has been 
suspended until NASAs investigation is com
plete. According to Sekerka, this could last 
anywhere from two to twelve months, depen
ding upon the nature of the problem, if any 
is ever found. He does not expect anything 
as long as the 21 month delay which follow
ed the fire aboard Apollo I.
Theorizing about the cause of the disaster, 
Sekerka says It [the shuttle] has perhaps this 
one characteristic that finally caught up to 
them, or maybe it was just a freak.
In dealing with something as complex as
TUTORS WANTED!
The Counseling Center needs 
Chemistry and Calculus tutors for 
walk-in tutoring. 
Pays $3.50/hr. 
Call the Counseling Center 
X2922
25% DISCOUNT 
ON AN 
PERSONAL COMPUTER
TO ALL CARNEGIE MELLON 
STUDENTS & 
FACULTY
GET YOUR HANDS ON THE MOST 
TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PERSONAL 
COMPUTER IN ITS CLASS 
BY CALLING
BAS I C 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 
(412) 342-5505 COLLECT
9 to 5 M-F
the space shuttle the laws of probability and 
big numbers play an important role. Sekerka 
says that given that each system has a 
reliability of 99.^for example, and there are 
N total such systems or operations, the com
bined reliability of the whole shuttle is .999 
to the Nth power, and that number 
decreases to much less than one as N gets 
large. The fact that NASA can get it to work 
is quite a feat.
The loss of the $1.3 billion vehicle and the 
cost of the investigation, in conjunction with 
the Gramm-Rudman belt tightening 
measures taken by the federal government, 
will have a profound effect on NASA. 
Sekerka points out that there are also hid
den costs, such as the cost of the launch 
itself, which have been lost in this case.
The longterm effects on the shuttle pro
gram will be minimal. Sekerka predicts that 
NASAs foreign competition, such as the 
European Space Agencys Ariane rocket, 
may get more use for a period of time, but 
the shuttle is so well established that it will 
not disappear. The main reasons for this are 
the shuttles flexibility in space, such as 
satellite retrieval, and its ability to carry big
ger payloads than a standard rocket.
In response to Sen. Frank Lautenbergs 
(D-NJ) statement Can we expect programs 
as exotic as SDI to be able to continue? 
Sekerka pointed out that NASA and the 
military are, according to the Space Act, 
separate entities. Though the military uses 
NASAs facilities, they will continue to 
research the Star Wars system on their own. 
Space is new high ground for the military. 
The military has never been able to resist 
having the high ground he said.
Carnegie Mellon mourns the loss of a 
truly distinguished alumna.JordanJudy Resnik
continued from page 1
pleted her Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering 
at the University of Maryland in 1977. While 
working as a senior systems engineer with 
Xerox Corp. in 1978 she was accepted by 
NASA as an astronaut candidate. In August 
of 1979 she became an astronaut.
This flight would have been the second 
trip into space for Dr. Resnik. Her first flight 
on the maiden voyage of the Discovery in 
1984 made her the second American woman 
in space. On that flight she logged 144 hours 
and 57 minutes in space, orbiting the Earth 
97 times and covering 2.5 million miles.
Jordan announced that Carnegie Mellon 
has established the Judith Resnik Memorial 
Scholarship for women in Electrical and 
Computer Engineering. Anyone wanting to 
participate can send their contribution 
directly to President Cyert. Dr. and Mrs. 
Cyert has contributed $5000. The Jordans 
have contributed $3000. Jordan said, 
Carnegie Mellon mourns the loss of a truly 
distinguished alumna.
Materials Science
We Make 
High-Tech 
Happen!
Department of Metallurgical 
Engineering and Materials Science 
ClT Freshman Open House
Wean Hall 7500
Tuesday, Feb. llth 
4:30 p.m. 
Followed by informal discussion 
and refreshments

---------------------------------------------------

Time
WRCT
PITTSBURGH88.3 FM
STEREO
Request Lines:
9 P.M.
10 P.M.
11 P.M.
Sunday
12 A.M. 
1AM
Cosmic Flapjacks 
w/BFP
das Es 
w/ Perry M(
I I M  IVI 
! 2 A.M.
Space, Ambient, 
Electronic
Experiment
Bizzare
| 3 A.M. 
\ 4 A.M.
To Be AnnouncedSomething 
Completely 
w/ Gray
| 5 A.M.New Wavl
i 6 A.M. 
! 7 A.M.
All Parts of
the Spectrum w/ Sean 
Jazz, Fusion,
ArtRock, Pop,
Anji & Ma| 
New Wavi 
Classical, 
Thrash J
I 8 A.M.ExperimentalDifferent-J
9 A.M.
10 A.M.
11 A.M.
The Sunday Morning 
Extras 
w/ Rayro 
Jazz, Reggae,
Folk, Scrud
Socks
I
w/ Keith j 
Old andi 
Experiml
12 P.M.
1 P.M.
2 P.M.
Mattress Stains 
w/ Garrett
Gothic, Popular 
Alternative
Joe Ben|
I

Hardco^
3 P.M.
4 P.M.
Silvia
Jazz, Fusion, Rock, 
Ambient
New Vcl 
w/ Rees 
R &B,I
5 P.M.Adventures in GoodFun wip 
of Rafl
6 P.M.
IVIUolU lUf iNuri iviajurb
w/ Jane & Carol HaasPop, Hf
7 P.M.
8 P.M.
The Rythym of 
the Beat w/ Les 
R&B, Funk/Rap, Blues
cip
w/ R^ I
Regga|
Mutant Music 
w/ Fetko
Varidus &
Uncatigorizable Musics
268-2883o

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986 -The TartanPage 5
MEMS
Graduates employed nearly 100 Percent
Students of materials sciences at Carnegie 
Mellon acquire a wide variety of career op
tions and are virtually certain to get jobs in 
their fields, according to the head of the 
universitys department of metallurgical 
engineering and materials science (MEMS).
However, an unduly narrow perception of 
material studies may prevent more students 
from pursuing them, according to Mel Bern
stein, MEMS department head.
Materials studies mean more than just 
work in steel and basic metals, and freshmen 
interested in high-technology careers owe it 
to themselves to explore these options before 
choosing a major, Bernstein said. He invited
freshmen to attend the MEMS open house 
at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. 11, in Room 7500, 
Wean Hall. The open house will include a 
formal presentation on these studies, follow
ed by an informal meeting with MEMS 
faculty and current students, with 
refreshments.
The materials field is dynamic and grow
ing, but it suffers from an image linked too 
closely to traditional metallurgy, Bernstein 
said. Carnegie Mellon remains strong in 
basic metallurgy and traditional materials 
issues are still important. But there are 
newer parts of the discipline which are ex
citing and which can lead to fulfilling 
careers in a variety of settings.
Bernstein noted that many companies in 
various metals industries will become more 
oriented to high technology and thus will 
need specialists familiar with the materials 
with which high technology is built.
This means that job prospects for 
materials specialists, already strong, will get 
better, Bernstein said. The job market for 
students with bachelors degrees from 
materials studies departments has increas
ed by five or 10 times in the last 30 years, 
but the number of graduates has remained 
about the same. Thats part of the reason
why Carnegie Mellons MEMS graduates 
have attained a successful employment 
record of nearly 100 percent, Bernstein adds.
The far-ranging importance of materials 
skills is made plain by the variety of types 
of employers that have hired MEMS 
graduates, Bernstein said. These include 
high-tech firms such as IBM, oil companies, 
traditional basic metals firms and others.
Berstein says that MEMS is committed to 
growing because growth benefits the depart
ment, its students and the materials field as 
a whole.
MTV-MS Fundraiser: Helping Out
The nationwide MTV-MS fundraiser is 
gaining momentum here at Carnegie 
Mellon. This past week, Bev Noyes, the Na
tional Director of Students against MS, 
visited Carnegie Mellon. Carnegie Mellon is 
the only university our of the 135 raising 
money that Bev will visit. She came to meet 
Rich Miller, a Carnegie Mellon senior with 
MS. Rich is what this competition is all 
about, Bev said. Carnegie Mellons fund
raising committee is planning a formal din
ner for the couples sometime during the 
weekend of March 13th. The pub and 
ballroom will be decorated, and alcohol will 
be served to those over 21. A very substan
tial prize will be raffled off at the end of the 
evening.
On March 1st there will be a air band 
competition. The band that raises the most 
money on March 1 will receive a $200 prize. 
The air band tat has raised the most money 
from now until March 1 will go on to the 
regional competition.
ATO went canning at the Penguin game 
last Tuesday, January 28th. Welch dorm held 
a video night Friday, Jan. 31, charging a 
$2.00 admission for 3 videos and munchies.
MS fundraising events to watch for are:
 ATO, BETA, PI LAM and THETA 
XI will be asking for donations at all 
of their mixers during February.
 SDC and AB dances will have cans 
on for MS donations.
 PANTHER HOLLOW INN will be 
donating 5<? to Carnegie Mellons MS 
fund for every pitcher of Purple Hooters 
it sells from February 1 to the 28th.
 PRIMANTIS is donating 10< for 
every pitcher of beer sold on Thursday 
and Friday nights.
 DAVE AND ANDYS ICE CREAM 
is donating 5$ for every cone they sell.
 SCOTLAND YARD has donation 
cans set up and will be showing MTV 
tapes every Wednesday night.
If anyone is interested or has ideas for 
fund-raisers please call Mouse, the 
Chairperson of Carnegie Mellons Fun
draiser, at 682-0811 or leave a message at 
the Skibo Info. Desk.
, there were 5,618 undergraduate 
chapters and 350 colonies in the U.S.
300,000 undergraduate members and 
initkates. The total
13$ ne&r] y four
riiiiiii Tfr itiriri.lVr
Shoot for 
'THE TARTAN
THE FAIR FAX APTS!!
0
? WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
? YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apt& Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
pc 32PThrFbyhe SpiderTM
ONLY $59 shipping included
NY buyers add .0575 sales taxProtects MONITOR, PRINTERS, KEYBOARD, CPU, DISK DRIVES, protects up to 5 computer accessories, if thief tries to remove any, a continuous 98 DECIBEL ALARM will sound.Easy to hook-up, just stick sensor onto item you are securing, no tools, no drilling . . . Effective deterrent to theft and unauthorized Borrowing.
95
Perfect in Dorm, Apartment, Office, Computer Lab . . . Fits Every PC.Makes COMMON and ECONOMICAL sense to have THE SPIDER PROTECTING YOUR PC Than to have NOTHING PROTECTING YOUR PC.
High-Tech Multi Sensor Electronic Alarm Controlled by Sophisticated Microchip.GUARANTEED!
MAIL CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO: SCARBOROUGH IMPORTS, 212 ST. MARYS ST., 
PEEKSKILL, NY 10566. Battery not included.JRDS SHOES TIME RND M0NEV
Perhaps some of you are still unfamiliar with JRDS, the Journal 
Article Delivery Service, uihich was instituted by the Libraries during 
the summer of 1985. This service ollews CMU faculty, staff, and 
students te order photocopies of articles contained in journals owned 
by the CMU Libraries and to have these articles delivered to them 
through campus mail. The cost is minimal compared to your savings in 
time and effert ( ranging from $2.00 per article for up to IS poges to 
$4.00 for articles 30 pages and over): no more trekking to the 
Libraries to locate the needed volume, no more lines at the photocopy 
machines, and you don't need change or coplcards. Ta add to the 
convenience, we offer overnight service Monday through Friday.
Rnd JRDS is easy te use! Simply fill out the JRDS request form, 
include your payment or CMU account number, and forward your 
request to the appropriate library In care af JRDS. We do the rest. 
Forms are available at the libraries' circulation desks. Frequent users 
of the service are enceuraged ta establish a depasit account, which 
has the added advantage af allowing you to ardor phetecepies 
through the TOPS mall system. Far mare Information, please contact:
Dotty Dickerson 
Hunt Library 
M 2450
Darb Sandllng 
EDS Library 
R 2426
I AffeJfe RftrffVtAfl LUIIQMeilen Institute 
R 3172
Due ta copyright restrictions, photocopies con be furnished only If 
they will be used solely for prlvote study, scholorship, or research.
Use for other purposes moy moke the user Heble for copyright 
infringement. Moreover, copyright low prohibits photocopying more 
thon one article from a single Issue, os well os multiple photocopies of 
one ortlcle.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
ii L.
LUZON
SOUTH CHINA SEA
PHILIPPINE SEA
SAMAR
PACIFIC OCEAN
SULU SEA
Davao
Phillipines: The Quick Facts
jflnnouncingl________________
A  presents : 
i Computer Applications Courses
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter 
Geography
The Philippines are situated along the 
southeastern rim of Asia, separated from 
China by 600 miles of the South China Sea. 
An archipelago with an area of 115,830 sq. 
miles, the Philippines consists of about 7,100 
islands, eleven of which make up 95% of the 
land mass. The two major islands are Luzon 
and Mindanao. About 65% of the land is 
mountainous and the climate is tropical, 
with an average mean temperature of 80 F.
People
Most of the 55 million people of the 
Philippines are of Malay stock, descendents 
of the Indonesians and Malays who migrated 
to the islands. Larger minorities in the 
islands include Chinese (who play an impor
tant role in commerce), Americans and 
Spaniards. The annual population growth 
rate is about 2.5% bringing about the need 
to create 700,000 new jobs each year, 
something which has not come about in the 
past. Because of the Spanish influence in the 
Philippines, 90%of the people are Chris
tians. Other groups include Muslims in the 
South and primitive forest tribes in remote 
areas of Mindanao. There are 87 native 
languages, along with three official 
languages, which are Filipino, English and 
Spanish.
Economy
The economy of the Philippines has 
weakened over the past decade. A $29 billion 
foreign debt strains the economy. Also, the 
Gross National Product (GNP) is around 
$40 billion, with a growth rate of only 1.3, 
well below rates in the 1970s. This low rate 
is mainly because of the decreased demand 
for primary products which are mainly 
agricultural goods, such as coconuts and 
sugar. Arable farmland makes up 38%of the 
total land area. Mineral deposits such as 
chromate, nickel and copper are large, con
stituting 18% of all exports. Some industry 
is present in the Philippines, but growth is 
slow because of limited investments and in
adequate power facilities. Foreign trade is 
important for the Philippines, with the US 
and Japan importing the majority of the 
Philippines exports.
Government
The Republic of the Philippines is based 
on the US political system, with a Constitu
tion and three branches in the government. 
With the imposition of martial law in 1972, 
Marcos created a new constitution which 
gives him extensive powers in governing the
there is a 
to experience,
TS* WH.I vlWH W"'"
r^aibs^(^8-S7-rn
ext899itdMree.
i <>r mail t>>: The Wall Street journal, 200 Burnett Ruad. iI Chicopee, MA 010211 O Send melme year iii The Wall Street journal (<>r$63 1I swing i>f $44 aff Ihr regatar aibscrtplum finn ? Send me 15 weeks 4 $26 ? Payment enclosed.
? Hill me later
I Name___________ _________________________ I
Student I D.#. 
Addie____
City_._____
School_____
.Grad Month tear _
Map.
Microsoft Muitiplan
where : Morewood PC cluster 
when : February 8,15, 22March 1 
4:00 - 5:00 p.m.
Microsoft Chart
where : Morewood PC cluster 
when : February 9, 16, 23March 2 
4:00 - 5:00 p.m.
SiudctitDormitory
Council
Courses are in the testing phase, and are thus free and open to all C-MU students 
Sign up at the Skibo information Desk - class size is limited, so sign up early 
Brought to you by your Student Dorm|ton^CouncM.
nation. A parliamentary system was created, 
but Marcos exercised full executive authority 
until the ending of martial law in 1981. 
Amendments were made in 1981, giving the 
President the power to appoint a Prime 
Minister, formulate national policy, and en
joy broad authority. The President may also 
be elected to an unlimited number of 6-year 
terms. The main political parties are Marcos 
New Society Movement, the United Nationalist 
Democratic organization (UNIDO) and a 
rapidly growing Communist Party of the 
Philippines (CPP), whose military arm is the 
New Peoples Army (NPA).
History
The first people came to the Philippines 
about 30,000 years ago. Chinese traders ar
rived in the 9th century A.D. and by the 14th 
century Arabs had introduced Islam to the 
southern islands. In 1521, Ferdinand 
Magellan claimed the Philippines for Spain. 
The islands remained under Spanish rule for 
377 years. Catholicism was introduced and 
the social system was one of a strong central 
government and large clerical influence. Fre
quent uprisings occurred against the 
Spanish, the most important being in 1896 
under Emilio Aguinaldo.
In 1898, after the defeat of the Spanish 
in the Spanish-American War, the US oc
cupied the Philippines. Insurrections broke 
out in 1899 against the US, again led by 
Aguinaldo, but were savagely put down. 
However, close ties would develop between 
the two nations. US administration of the 
Philippines was declared temporarily. Under 
the Jones Act of 1916, the Filipinos were 
given more direct control of their country. 
In 1935, the Tydings-McDuffie Act was pass
ed, making the Philippines a self-governing 
commonwealth and preparing the country 
for independence after a 10 year transition 
period.
With the outbreak of WWII, the Philip
pines were occupied by the Japanese. 
Filipinos were involved in guerilla activity 
against the enemy and also collaboration 
with them. The fighting brought about a 
large amount of damage and organizational 
breakdown. However, on July 4, 1946, the 
Philippines became independent.
After independence, the US played a ma
jor role in reconstructing the economy. A 
communist rebellion threatened the govern
ment between 1945-53, but was put down 
by President Ramon Magsaysay (1953-57). 
After Presidents Garcia and Macapagal, 
Ferdinand E. Marcos was elected in 1965, 
in a fraudulent election. Marcos still serves 
as President of the Philippines.
IBM :
Lotus 1-2-3 (New Version)
where : UCC PC cluster
when : February 8,15, 22March 1 2:00 - 3:00 p.m.
Epsilon / Scribble
where : UCC PC cluster 
when : February 9,16, 23March 2 2:00 - 3:00 p.m.
Macintosh :

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 7
Phillipine Election: Will it be Credible?
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffiuriter
After 20 years of Marcos rule, an election 
is taking place on February 7th which could 
bring about substantial change in the Philip
pines. A reasonably fair election has not 
been seen in the Philippines since the 1965 
election in which President Ferdinand E. 
Marcos first came into power. President 
Marcos is being opposed by Corazon (Cory) 
Aquino, the widow of slain opposition leader 
Benigno S. Aquino. She is running with 
Salvadore Laurel, the seasoned leader of the 
opposition party UNIDO, as her 
Vice-President.
Both candidates have positive and 
negative points which greatly influence the 
views of the Philippine voters and the US, 
which has close economic,diplomatic and 
historic ties with the Philippines. Marcos is 
a hardened politician with far more ex
perience than Aquino, but claims of corrup
tion within the present government are 
widespread and the economic problems of 
the Philippines are quickly eroding Marcoss 
support. After 20 years of empty promises 
of reform, Marcoss credibility within the in
fluential business community is gone. 
Another negative point is Marcoss 
deteriorating health, which is caused by 
severe kidney disease and possibly lupus. 
Nevertheless, Marcoss political experience 
and cunning are factors which greatly 
enhance his chances of winning.
Cory Aquino is extremely popular with 
the Philippine people, although much of this 
popularity comes from the fact she was 
Benigno Aquinos wife, who was also 
popular. Aquino is seen as a chance for some 
changes to occur in the Philippines, the 
main one being the ending of Marcoss rule. 
She announced that Communists who re
nounced violence would be welcome in a 
coalition government, but then retracted 
this claim after Marcos criticized her state
ment. Aquinos running mate, Doy Laurel, 
is also popular, and adds strength to the 
ticket. Aguinos major drawback is her lack 
of experience compared to Ma/cos, a point 
Marcos has repeatedly stressed.
Present US views towards the election are 
substantially different to past pro-Marcos 
feelings. Policy makers within the Reagan 
administration (despite Reagans pro-Marcos 
feelings) believe the defeat of Marcos is 
essential to a non-Communist future for the 
Philippines and US interests there. The 
policy makers predict Marcos will win the 
election, creating further dissatisfaction with 
the Philippine people. A military coup op
tion has been explored as a means of get
ting rid of him, but is not widely accepted. 
Officials want to try to get Marcos to suc
ceed peacefully, if he wins.
As in almost all past Philippine elections, 
violence and fraud have become major fac
tors in the Feb. 7th election. The Philippine 
governments latest count listed 16 slayings 
connected with the election. Most of the vic
tims worked for Aquino, but four were 
members of Marcoss party. Intimidation of 
Aquino supporters is a prime motivation 
behind the slayings. An example is the killing of Jeremias de Jesus, a campaign leader 
and godson of Aquino. His right thumb and 
index finger were cut off, a desecration of 
the L-shaped hand sign used by Aquinos 
party.
The US has fears the election will be 
fraudulent. Ballot-stuffing, money giving 
and other acts of fraud will probably be us
ed by Marcos in his bid to win. Three groups 
of international observers, whom Marcos 
criticizes as meddlers will be in the Philip
pines during the election. Senator Richard 
G. Lugar, chairman of the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee, will head a 40 
member observation group. An election 
commission ruling was created which stated 
journalists and observers could be imprison
ed if they approach closer than 150 feet from 
the polling places. The State Department 
hopes the groups will show the Filipinos their 
votes count and that fraud should not oc
cur. Along with the international groups, a 
private Philippine group, National Move
ment for Free Elections (NAMFREL), will 
be involved in monitoring the election, 
despite opposition by the Marcos regime.
A recent development, separate from the 
campaign, but influential in Marcoss 
popularity occurred last week. Alfred W. 
McCoy, a historian, discovered documents 
in US Army files which discredited Marcoss 
supposed role as a guerrilla leader against 
the Japanese in World War II. Marcos used 
his military record and war hero status to 
develop a political powerbase in the 1960s. 
It is possible he would not have had the sup
port he received without this reputation. 
Other documents draw a possible connec
tion between Marcos and people who col
laborated with the Japanese. Marcos im
mediately dismissed the US report which 
stated his claim was fraudulent and ab
surd. He accused the US of arrogance and 
said the US behaves like Protestant ministers 
-- they love preaching at everyone. These re
cent findings have reduced Marcoss 
popularity even among his staunch
HOW TO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY $1,000 A MONTH.
If youre a math, engineering or physical sciences major, you could be earning 
$1,000 a month during your junior and senior years. Thats $25,000 by graduation.
This excellent opportunity is part of theNavy Nuclear Propulsion Officer 
Candidate Program. Its one of the most prestigious ways of entering the nuclear 
field - and rewarding, too. You get a $4.000 bonus upon entrance into the 
program, and $2.000 more when you complete your Naval studies.
You also receive a year of paid graduate-level training thats the mos t compre
hensive in the world. And you'll acquire expertise with state-of-the-art nuclear 
reactor and propulsion plant technology.
As a Navy officer, youll get responsibility and recognition early on. Your 
high-level experience and credentials will help make you a leader in one of the 
world's fastest growing industries.
In addition to the professional advantages, nuclear-trained officers get an 
unbeatable benefits package, travel opportunities, planned promotions, and a 
solid salary that can reach as much as $44,000 after five years.
Find out more about the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program, 
and make your education start paying off today. Call Navy Management 
Programs: 644-6435 or Toll-Free 1-800-242-6289. In WV. OH and MO call 
Toll-Free 1-800-245-1772.
On Campus February 10
NWOfKBtStfTRBMIHMfrYMSl _____
supporters.
Fraudulence has been a watchword for 
Marcos ever since he came into power in the 
1965 elections. His victory then was influenc
ed largely by his being well organized and 
independently wealthy. Marcos showed 
strong support for US intervention in Asia 
and asked for greater US assistance to the 
Philippines.
Even early on in his first term, Marcos 
showed indications of wanting Constitutional changes that would allow him terms 
of ten or more years in the presidency. In the 
1969 election, one plagued with ballot stuf
fing and fraudulent tactics, Marcos easily 
won. Economic and social problems where 
increasing and Marcos targeted the Com
munists as the cause of the trouble. In 1972, 
under some rather mysterious circumstances, 
Marcos claimed the Communists were a 
threat to national security and imposed mar
tial law on the Philippines.
Martial law would last from 1972 until 
1981. Under it, Marcos dreamed of creating 
a New Society. Congress was suspended, 
the free press closed and thousands of op
position leaders (including Benigno Aquino) 
were jailed. Under martial law, Marcos gave 
jobs to his cronies and amassed a fortune. 
Marcos ended martial law in 1981 to please 
a more supportive Reagan government and 
insure increased economic support.
The next major crisis to occur in the 
Philippines was the assassination of opposi
tion leader Benigno Aquino. Aquino had 
been released from prison and allowed to 
come to the US for surgery in 1981. In 1983, 
he decided to return to the Philippines. It 
seems the ruling circle felt this was an in
itial step in removing Marcos from power, 
so Aquino was killed as he stepped of his 
plane. This signalled a change in Reagan 
administration policy towards Marcos, for 
the worse. US moral support towards Marcos has decreased, although economic sup
port has increased.
This lack of confidence in Marcos by the 
Reagan administration lead to the sending 
of special envoy Senator Paul Laxalt. He 
took a message from Reagan which voiced 
concern for Marcoss failings in solving his 
nations problems. It was primarily in 
response to this that Marcos called for a snap 
election on January 17th (later moved to Feb. 
7th).
Motives, other than pleasing the US 
government, were behind having an election 
16 months before they were scheduled. By 
calling the election, Marcos was attempting 
to look like a reformer, without losing his 
position. Marcos felt the surprise election 
would catch the opposition off guard and 
that they would never unify themselves. He 
also believed the Philippine courts would 
rule the election unconstitutional and ban 
it. Either way, Marcos would have remain
ed President and looked as if he was trying 
to improve his nation. His plan backfired 
though, for the elections were allowed to go 
on and the opposition is united.
The future of not only the Philippines, 
but also US interests in the Philippines lies 
on this election. Along with large economic 
investments in the Philippines, the US has 
two important military installations, the 
Subic Naval and Clark Air Force Bases, 
which serve US forces in the Pacific and In
dian Oceans. A major concern for US of
ficials is the takeover of the Philippines by 
the Communists. Marcos claims an Aquino 
victory would eventually lead to the 
establishment of Communism in the islands. 
However, officials in Washington feel con
tinued rule by Marcos will provoke the Com
munists into overthrowing his government. 
Either way the election goes on Feb. 7th, the 
next few weeks will influence the future of 
all Filipinos.
South Yemen
Country has stabilized
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
The civil war that began in South Yemen 
on January 13th is now known to have begun 
with the massacre, by President Ali Hassani, 
of his critics in the Politburo. Hassani fled
the capital of Aden and his whereabouts are 
still unknown. A new government, with 
former Prime Minister Haider Abu Bakr alAttas as president, has been set up and the 
country has been stabilized.
PrecisionHaircut
onlv
*1 3.00
Just-A-Cut
Compile wiitti lompoo 
ft blow style
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want
Designer 
Perm
only
*8.00Precision haircut only
onlv*25.00
complete with
guarantee!
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED'
Great Styles Start at... 4,
APPOiMTMENT 
NECESSARYNo Appointments
iifr
I IFCre ceom ndsKdapDFDFlsave*2.00
I on the Precision Haircut I CompletewWhihampooAdyMng |
I
I
I sJan311h98
_ CftCflT EHfccmwnsPRECISION HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post OfficeJSSssi 687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Clare Boothe Luce's
Everyone's talking about 
them and they're talking 
about everyone. Listen in. 
You'll get an earful. You'll 
also laugh a lot at this 
comic attack on the 
uppercrust.
STUDENTS
Rockwell International will be 
hosting a reception February 
26th, from 5:30 to 8:00 p.m. in 
Skibo Hall, Room 45, 
Engineers and recruiters will be 
available to discuss career op
portunities. All disciplines are 
welcome.
2 p.m.
Feb. 15 and 22
(Artists' Forum follows Feb. 15 
performance.)
Kresge Theatre 
College of Fine Arts
Student/Senior Citizen 
Rate: $5
Ask about $10 package for The 
Women and Samba, a new 
musical.Rockwell International
...where science gets down to business
Box Office: 268-2407
College of Fine Arts 
Tickets also available 
at Skibo Information Desk
Another Exciting Carnegie 
Mellon Drama Department 
Production
t Beneath the Surface
cative, Entertaining, Informative, Film Series
to Early Black Cinema  February 2Carnegie Mellon 7:00 pm Skibo Ballroom
"Under world*Pearl Bowser. Lecturer
A Tribute to Black Entertainers -rFebruary 5Symphony in BlackSwing"St Louis Blues Featuring Duke Ellington/Bessie Srmth/Louis Armstrong, others
Community College 12 00 pm of Allegheny County (CC AC )
West Hall Auditorium Ridge Avenue
A Tribute to Paul Robeson  February 6Gil Nobels University ofTallest Tree in the Pittsburgh ForestSong of Freedom*
7 30 pmAssembly Room Wm Pitt Union
A Tribute to Our Youth  February 9Carl Clays Radio"The Follower"
Carnegie Mellon 1 00 pmSkibo Ballroom
A Tribute to Message Cinema  February 10"The Dutchman' Community College 12 00 pm Booker T of AlleghenyWashington* County(MLK) "Doubts &Certainty'
A Tribute to Black Filmmakers 
in Other Lands  February 13Senegal & HartUniversity of 7 30 pmXala' PittsburghBlack Dawn
West Ha Auditorium Ridge Avenue
Assembly Room Wm Pitt Union
A Tribute to Sidney Poitier  February 19Edge of the City' Community College 12 00 pm Men of Bronze' of Allegheny(B Miles) County
West Hall Auditorium Ridge Avenue
Tribute to Unique Genre  February 23'Portrait of Jason Carnegie Mellon "If There Weren't Any Blacks, Voud Have to invent Them
Skibo Hall Wherrett Room
Tribute to Melvin Van Peebles  February 27Story of a 3-Day University ofPass Pittsburgh'James Weldon JohnsonMevn Van Peebles Lecturer
9 00 pmDavid Lawrence Auditorium
ite li

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
I Fun in the sun: Bermuda College Weeks
A Counselor's View
*Counseling Center addresses campus problems
BERMUDA, January 23, 1986The Ber1 muda Department of Tourism is sponsoring 
College Weeks March 2-April 5, 1986, with 
weeklong fests of special activities from 
I beach parties to boat cruises for college students who travel to the island.
Upon arrival in Bermuda and presenta
tion of valid college identification card, 
JL students will receive a Bermuda College 
Week Courtesy Card their ticket to free 
entertainment. The card must be presented 
for admission to sponsored activities and for 
I special discounts at participating pubs, 
I discos and nightclubs on the island.
After a Sunday of settling in and laying 
I the foundation for a great tan, the entertainI ment begins. Monday, the pink sand of 
I internationally-famous Elbow Beach is the 
I setting for a waterside bash featuring enterI tainment by the Bermuda Strollers and acK companied by a complimentary barbecue 
8 lunch.
The beach fun and games continue on 
I Tuesday at Horseshoe Bay, with a buffet I lunch and a performance by the Bermuda 
I Limbo Dancers, followed by a special limI bo contest for students. Dont overlook the 
I tug-of-war competition and volleyball 
I games.
Midweek brings the famous Boat Cruise. 
I This free sea-faring party includes food and 
I entertainment as the M.V. Canima glides 
  past the islands of Hamilton Harbour and 
I through the Great Sound. As the week 
I begins to draw to a close, enjoy a free day 
I on Thursday. This is the perfect time to 
I sightsee, absorb some local history, or take 
I advantage of the great buys on international 
I merchandise.
The Bermuda College Week winds down 
I with some of Bermudas musical culture. Fri
ll days beach party swings with the unique 
| sounds of Bermudas best known Steel 
| Bands. Listen to your favorite rock, classic 
I and calypso tunes all played on oil drums.
I by LESLIE FRANKI. Tartan Staffwriter
^ Student counseling director Dr. Lorrie 
p Rabin believer that the most serious 
B psychological problems of Carnegie-Mellon 
IB students stem from competetion, present in 
I; the faculty as wel1 as in the students 
H themselves. Four suicides at CMU in the past 
I ^our years have been motivated by what Dr. 
IK Rabin terms intra-psychic conflicts betH ween the simultaneous desire for competiB tion and hatred of the pressure competition brings.
I he atmosphere created by the faculty at
IS CMU is one typical of research-oriented 
1 universities nationwide. The kinds of problems we are dealing with, as uncomfortable
 as they may be, are happening at other 
I st'hools, notes Rabin. Faculty members are
 struggling with their own careers. They are
 !f>sPnding to demands for research and 
I publishing. Pressure on faculty members is 
I l^en f^lt by their students.
Dr. Rabin coordinates therapy programs
 approximately five hundred students per
 >ear. She feels that many more are in need 
B '>1 help than those who seek it out, an obser
vation already obvious to the many students
 on campus who deal with troubled friends 
Be\ery day. Emphasizes Rabin, Its a tough
 place. People are suffering out there.
I E)r. Rabin revealed that she get(s) stories 
Hfrom students about professors who yell a 
\ *ecture and run out the door. She says that
the environment at CMU may be worse than 
that of an Ivy League school in that faculty 
members at Harvard, for instance, dont feel 
as much of a need to prove themselves; 
faculty is comprised mainly of individuals 
who have already established themselves in 
the intellectual community.
Dr. Rabin sees a tenuous love-hate rela
tionship student and school. She has observ
ed that students who come to CMU are 
generally in search of competition, and some 
are overwhelmed by what they find. Dr. 
Rabin says they dont want a less competitive 
school, but they have a difficult time manag
ing the stress competition produces.
Nurturing" is lacking in the learning en
vironment at CMU according to Dr. Rabin; 
in her estimation it is a necessary ingredient. 
Dr. Rabin has found, however, that pro
blems of students who kill themselves run far 
deeper than their relationships with facul
ty. Intra-psychic problems are involved. . 
The intra-psychic problem is most often 
the conflict of the student's being drawn to 
a competitive situation which he cannot 
manage.
In defense of the campus suicide rate 
Rabin claims, The suicide rate here is not 
unusual for a school this size. . .(it) is high 
for this age group around the country. She 
replies to the common student speculation 
that there have been multiple suicides: 
There have not been five or six. There has 
been one. Dr. Rabin did admit that there 
were three student deaths on campus last 
year, but she did not mention the large
amount of controversy which surrounded the 
cause of at least one of those deaths.
According to a nationwide survey. 
Carnegie-Mellons number of known suicide 
attempts is between the median and top 
seventy-five percent of the figures reported 
by small schools. When asked if she really 
thinks that all suicide attempts make 
themselves known to the counseling center, 
Rabin admitted her belief that any student
having to deal with another's bodily injury 
would call security first, and that the same 
rationale would apply for a suicide attempt 
as for any injury. Dr. Rabin appears to 
assume that security has an unfaltering abili
ty to see through any false excuses for injury.
Dr. Rabin has noticed a ripple effect 
which takes place after a suicide. Following 
a suicide is a period of more frequent suicide 
continued on pg* 11
Bermuda, a geographically isolated island 
covering 20 square miles, is almost 600 miles 
off the coast of Cape Hatteras, North 
Carolina. The island is easily accessible from 
New York and Boston, just one and a half 
hours by jet.
As a British Colony, Bermuda requires 
proof of citizenship upon arrival. This can 
be a passport, certified birth certificate or 
signed voters registration card. Also, confir
mation of accommodation in Bermuda and 
a return ticket are required.
The Government and people of Bermuda 
have been sponsoring College Weeks and 
hosting college students for over 50 years. For 
more information about Bermuda, the ideal 
spring break vacation spot, contact Tbd 
MacKenzie or Elisa Stark, at (617)426-4300.

---------------------------------------------------

CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00<a)TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
PRICE REDUCTIONS !
The Prices of the following products have been reduced at the CMU Computer Store:
"Old Style IBM PC
- 64k Motherboard $650.00
Megamax C Compiler 125.00
Wordmark 125.00
OmniReader 295.00
Mac Carrying Cases 49.95
Sritek 68000 Coprocessor 200.00 
NEC Tractor Feed 50.00
While Supplies Last!
THEb,'V
p IZ Z AIN
ATTENTION SENIORS:
Wednesday, February 5 
3:00 to 6:00 p.m. 
Scotland Yard
FREE REFRESHMENTS 
Sponsored by the Senior Class Gift 
Committee. 
Come vote, pledge and EAT!
Questions? Call Robin at X4830
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA & 2 LITER PEPSI$3.50
sfei
I V * *{it I'
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 11
Aluminum cans are worth money. 
It pays to keep America dean.
Forest Service, U.S.D. A.Give a hoot. Dont pollute.
Sponsored by the School of Urban 
and Public Affairs Graduate Student 
Council
Reactions to high tech accidents
By KATHY MURTAUGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, as the space shuttle Challenger 
burst into nothingness, Americans faced the 
impending reality of our human frailty and 
immortality. The unbridled excitement for 
technology along with the bonding that ex
ists between all human beings made the 
deaths a personal experience for more than 
just the families of the seven space pioneers.
Viewing death up close is itself a shock
ing experience. The sudden unexpected 
emotional swing from one extreme of emo
tion to another is also a great shock. But 
despite this, Americans, thronged in front 
of televisions, watched footage and listened 
to the repetitive reports over and over again 
last Tuesday.
According to Dr. Lorrie Rabin, director 
of Carnegie Mellons counseling center, this 
need for repetition is a healthy part of the 
mourning process. She states, Theres a need 
in the grieving process to repeat a story or 
event or image over and over again. You try 
to sort out the facts, try to understand and 
deal with the emotions associated, until the 
emotions dissipate.
This cathartic process was, indeed ex
perienced by many Carnegie Mellon 
students as crowds lingered in grey mat
ter and dorm lounges until they had seen 
enough. Dr. Rabin explains, There is a 
point after watching that there is no longer 
a need to watch. At this point of emotional 
dissipation, they could get back to real life. 
According to Dr. Rabin, the need to talk to 
others about what happened is a part of 
what happens in actual therapy.
It seemed as though a common first reac
tion was, Oh my God, the teacher was on 
board. The media definitely emphasized the
tradgedy of Christa McAulliffe with 
biographical sketches, footage of the various 
stages in her preparation, and focuses on the 
reaction of Concord, New Hampshire. Dr. 
Rabin explains, She was someone that we 
all could readily identify with; she was an 
everyday person. Weve all had high school 
teachers.
But as this relation began to form and ob
vious bias in the media, many people 
wondered if the deaths of the astronauts 
themselves werent being understated.
The difference, Dr. Rabin described is 
that astronauts are people who have ac
cepted death as a possibility, are committed 
to the space program, and take the risk. The 
school teacher hadnt opted for that same 
kind of life. That makes her very different.
Here at Carnegie Mellon, however, 
students can relate to these technological 
pioneers on a vocational level as well as to 
Christa McAulliffe's personal level. The fact 
that one of the Astronauts, Judith Resnick 
was an alumnus of Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity, perhaps, intensifies this relation.
Despite the issues that have arisen from 
this tradgedy that center around the 
dangerous pace of technology, students of 
technology at Carnegie Mellon remain con
fident in what they have chosen to do with 
their lives.
Davide Erkes, a freshman electrical 
engineering major, states, The danger is just 
something we have to accept. Im more wor
ried about the effect the tradgedy will have 
on the space program itself.
Of course there is danger, but that wont 
slow me down. If I had the chance to ride 
the shuttle tomorrow. Id do it. said Shan
non Hansen, a junior chemical engineering 
major.
Kee Ho Ham adds, Its easy to say 
technology is moving too fast, but we cant
Dr.
go backward. Technology will continually 
better our lives.
Technology is worth the risk and if I had 
to die, thats the way I would want to go. 
stated Tom Hartman, a junior mechanical 
engineer, who adds, Although technology 
is rapidly advancing, government 
bureaucracy is keeping pace and manages 
to slow down most projects.
Jeffrey Melton, a junior mechanical 
engineer, explains, We have to examine 
these structures more carefully, explore every
possibility of risk, and integrate with other 
engineers to understand what we re working 
with.
The loss of such potent human intellect, 
the loss of what Dr. Rabin calls our current 
day heroes, is a wound suffered by our na
tion that will take much time to heal. It is 
crucial to the betterment of our society and 
our lives, however, that tomorrows leaders 
in technology, perhaps some of them quoted 
above, follow their passion to explore and 
continue their strive for excellence.
U.S. Senator Gary Hart 
(D-Colorado)
Campus counseling center
continued from page 9
attempts. (A suicide) can generate thoughts 
about committing suicide. Though its sad 
to say, its normal, claims Rabin. After a 
death by any means, we are reminded of 
our mortality, which can be an upsetting oc
currence. The Counseling Center tries to 
counter this by making those in the environ
ment of the suicide victim (family and close 
friends) aware that counseling is available. 
No specific program exists to help the 
general campus deal with the after-effects 
of suicide.
Dr. Rabin describes her facility as a short
term counseling center, up to a maximum 
of twelve sessions. If the pathology of a stu
dent is assessed as more serious than can be 
resolved in short-term therapy, a referral is 
made to an outside psychologist. Asked 
about the reliability of these referral 
psychologists (for which the student must 
pay), Rabin merely replied, People to whom 
ue refer students are verv experienced with 
Carnegie-Mellon.
What does the Counseling Center do in
twelve sessions or less? Therapy sessions are 
held which Dr. Rabin says, . . .give the stu
dent a chance to identify the problem. We 
create an environment in which the students 
can share. . .For some problems, just shar
ing and exploring are enough. Treatment 
for anything beyond some problems was 
not discussed Rabin except to say that in 
many cases, interpersonal relationships and 
self-esteem are involved. She added, A lot 
of people come to us saying my friend has 
a problem.
There has been a waiting list for counsel
ing during the past two years, but two staff 
interns from the University of Pittsburgh 
have been added to alleviate the delay. You 
will no longer have to wait, nor will you be 
likely to see someone more experienced than 
an intern, though Rabin assured that they 
are very experienced and talented" interns.
Dr. Rabin has an undergraduate degree 
in psychology from Syracuse University and 
a doctoral degree in counseling psychology 
from the University of Pittsburgh.
The Future of 
Americas Economy and 
Americas Families
Friday, February 7 
10:00 A.M.
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

PRACTICESHOTOKAK KARATEAT CMU !
With Prizes:
VCR
Lady* s Norelco Razor 
Zebra Pen Set 
Candy
Heritage 86: 
Cultural 
Reflections,
K. Leroy Irvis, speaker of the Pennsylvania 
House of Representatives will speak at Carnegie 
Mellon University on Thursday, February 6 at 7:00 
p.m. Mr. Irvis appearance is part of a week long 
celebration beginning on February 1, depicting 
the metamorphosis of Black Culture in America. 
The theme for the week is Heritage 86: Cultural 
Reflections.
All activities in conjunction with Heritage 86: 
Cultural Reflections will be held in the Skibo Stu
dent Center at Carnegie Mellon University. For 
more information call the Skibo Information desk 
at 258-2107 or 2108.
Shotokan Karate is a popular aerobic sport 
among men and women across the country and around the world.
And, for the serious student, 
it is a way to acquire the traits of courage, integrity, and selfcontrol
\ while learning powerful fighting techniques.I
Take a couple of hours a week to train with us. You will relieve your 
tensions and worries, and develop superb flexibility and muscle tone.
Do something good for yourself.
Beginner's classes start February 6-20 and continue through to the 20. Come to Thistle Hall in the gym
nasium, and wear comfortable, loose-fitting clothes. Classes meet: Tuesdays, 7:30 to 9:30p.m.; Thursdays, 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.; Saturdays, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
\ VShotokan Karate of AmericaA non profit orffumMion Imchmg KaraM-db m Amene urte It86

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Pittsburgh Playhouse presents MARAT/SADE
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Staffwriter
The Persecution and Assassination of Jean 
Paul MARAT as performed by the inmates 
of the Asylum of Charenton under the direc
tion of the Marquis de SADE. An unusual 
title for an unusual play. MARAT/SADE 
opened on January 29 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Company.
The title itself gives a synopsis of the play. 
MARAT/SADE is a play within a play. It 
concerns an asylum in France during the 
years 1797 and 1811 where theatrical perfor
mances were staged as a form of therapy for 
the inmates. It was actually fashionable in 
France to view the performances no so much 
for the play but rather for the antics of the 
inmates who were performing it. The Mar
quis de Sade, arrested for his published at
tacks on Josephine and Napoleon, was con
fined to the asylum where he began to direct 
many of the productions. While Sades sex
ual excesses have dominated his public im
age he was in fact a prolific writer and 
original thinker. A list of his works includes 
eighteen novels, twenty-four plays, fables, 
journals, memoirs and political pamphlets.
The play-within-the-play is about the 
assassination of Jean Paul Marat by 
Charlotte Corday. Marat was a member of 
the Jacobins in revolutionary France. The 
owner and chief writer of a radical 
newspaper LAmi Du Peuple (The Friend 
of the People) Marat attacked the political 
conservatives like La Fayette and Mirabeau. 
As such, Marat and his paper were outlaw
ed by the police. Marat resorted to publish 
his paper underground, literally. In his 
hiding from arrest in the sewers of Paris, 
Marat contracted a skin disease which forc
ed his remaining almost always in a warm 
bath. In fact, the Marat in this play does 
spend most of his time in a bathtub on stage. 
Corday, a Girondist sympathizer killed 
Marat in hopes of stopping a civil war bet
John Ampias and Raymond Caine star in MARAT/SADE
ween the Jacobins and the Girondins. The 
action only served to fuel the passion of the 
Jacobins who retaliated by killing many 
Girondists which led to the end of that move
ment and the beginning of the great Reign 
of Terror.
MARAT/SADE is concerned with the 
retelling of Marats assassination as told by 
the inmates of the Asylum of Charenton. 
Needless to say the story almost takes a back 
seat to the antics of the inmates. 
MARAT/SADE begins with the inmates be
ing brought onto the stage by the guards of 
the asylum. I should point out that this ac
tion took place nearly ten minutes before the 
play was to officially begin. With this unor
thodox beginning, the audience is brought 
back to 19th century France to witness the 
inmates in much the same way as French 
nobility watched them. The illusion is ex
cellently maintained throughout the play,
intermission included. Inmates are brought 
out and thrown into cells beneath the stage. 
Some inmates wander the stage waving 
childishly, some stare menacingly into the 
audience while some attack other inmates. 
The play is now ready to begin.
Marat is played by a paranoid inmate who 
stares fearfully at the other inmates while the 
director watches on from his chair at the side 
of the stage. The director is the Marquis de 
Sade. Marat is placed in his bath where he 
will remain for almost the entire perfor
mance. The rest of the inmates then rush 
in to begin their play. Clad in either ripped, 
filthy rags or colorful clown attire, the in
mates take their places around the stage and 
sometimes in the audience. The narrator of 
the story is a colorfully dressed inmate who 
speaks in rhyme and tells stories of the in
mates as well as the characters. Sade directs
the story while the narrator directs the in
mates.
The play takes unusual twists as the in
mate who plays Marat seems to become 
Marat and have philosophical debates with 
the director, Sade. Here both give their views 
on politics and revolution and give a unique 
insight to the period.
MARAT/SADE is definitely not a typical 
period play. It is sometimes difficult to 
understand the play that the inmates are 
performing through all that is happening on 
stage. The dialogue is subtle and requires 
much thought in order to be effective while 
the action sometimes serves to distract the 
audience. The two dont necessarily work 
well together. James Prescotts direction 
could have alleviated this problem but it did 
not. What results is the audience only get
ting half of the story while constantly being 
reminded that the inmates arent normal. It 
would seem that MARAT/SADE takes two 
fascinating concepts, that of the assassina
tion and that of the asylum, and forces them 
together. The result is that each idea takes 
away from the intensity of the other instead 
of complementing it.
Despite the major flaw in the play, 
MARAT/SADE does have some 
remarkable qualities. Mary Burts set, the 
grimy asylum, is perfectly revolting in both 
sight and smell. The cast, headed by John 
Amplas as Marat and Raymond Laine as de 
Sade, is wonderful. Catch the eye of one of 
the inmates and you are played to as an au
dience of one. Dont stare too long or you 
might get an apprehensive feeling that one 
of them takes his or her role too seriously. 
The cast creates the illusion and 
strengthens it throughout the performance.
MARAT/SADE runs through 
February 16 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Theatre Center. Despite one minor flaw the 
play is absorbing and the production is first 
rate.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre's Spring Season: 
Serenade, Tabula Rasa, Petroughka, and others
PITTSBURGH: On February 6, 7, and 8 
at 8:00 p.m. and February 9 at 2:00 p.m., 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre presents Serenade 
and two exciting contemporary works  
Tabula Rasa and Scene Dansante.
Serenade, choreographed by George 
Balanchine with music by Tchaikovsky, is a 
modern classic ballet suggesting romantic 
themes and strong sentiments.
The two other ballets on this program, 
both World Premieres, have been created 
especially for Pittsburgh Theatre. Tabula 
Rasa, set to the music of Arvo Part, is 
choreographed by Ohad Naharin, a young 
dancer and choreographer. This collabora
tion with Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre has been 
made possible by a grant from the National 
Choreography Project, a pilot program fund
ed by the Rockefeller Foundation, and the 
National Endowment for the Arts and ad
ministered by Pentacle. Mr. Naharin, who 
began his dance career in Israel and came 
to New York at the invitation of Martha 
Graham, has been described by critics as 
possessing a ...strong sense of style...(He is) 
a bright young talent... (Dancemagazine 
1982).
Daniel Levans new ballet, Scene Dan
sante, is set to the music of Alexandre Glazounov. Mr. Levans, who was a principal 
dancer with the American Ballet Theatre, 
returns to Pittsburgh for the third year. Last 
year for the 15th Anniverary Season, Mr. 
Levans created Concert Fantasie and Actua
tions: Stravinsky.
One week later, February 13, 14, and 15
at 8:00 p.m. and February 16 at 2:00 p.m., 
Petrouchka, Raymonda Variations, and Don 
Juan will be performed. Petrouchka or Lit
tle Peter is a half comic, half tragic pup
pet with a human heart. After falling in 
love, Petrouchka is reduced to helpless 
anguish. He later is murdered by his rival 
the Moor. The exciting music for the ballet 
is by Igor Stravinsky.
The colorful set used in these perfor
mances is an exact replica of those used in 
the world premiere performance in 1911 
which were done by the world famous Alex
ander Benois. Also, before the Thursday 
performance, the Dean of Fine Arts at 
Carnegie Mellon, Akram Midani, will give 
a free talk about Diaghilev, which is the style 
used in these performances. Those with 
tickets for any of these performances may at
tend the lecture 7 p.m. Thursday at the 
Heinz Hall Gallery.
Raymonda Variations, choreographed by 
George Balanchine and first presented in 
New York in 1961, offers classical balletic 
variations set the the music of Alexandre 
Glazounov. The third ballet offered on this 
exciting program includes the new produc
tion of Don Juan. The story follows Don 
Juans courtship of Donna Elvira, his slay
ing of Elviras father in a duel, the ap
pearance of the fathers ghost as Don Juan 
entertains his mistresses, and the anguish of 
the forsaken Donna Elvira. This ballet is 
choreographed by German Zamuel, prin
cipal teacher with the Pittsburgh Ballet
PBT dancers performing a scene from Petrouchka one of many selection in their Spring 
Season
Theatre School, and is set to the music of 
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Mr. Zamuel has 
hinted that a satirical twist will be given to 
the story of the legendary lover.
This Spring Season promises to be one of 
the most innovative and spectacular seasons
in the 16-year history of Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre. All of the performances are at 
Heinz Hall and for further information 
please call Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre at 
281-0360. Student rush tickets are available 
one hour prior to the Thursday perfor
mance, all seats left are 50% off.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
Uariaisons# file idi! Options Windows Instruments
1 Plain-Normal
2 Plain-loud
3 Hard-Short 
?4 Hard-long
5 Soft-Short
6 Soft-long
t Slow Utbrato 
8 Fast Uibrato
Ptwktnq Song Uuerutew
Drinking Song Staff
10 Fast Tremolo
11 Percussion I
12 Percussion ?
Charles Dutoit dazzles the Heinz Hall crowd
mmmmmm COUPON
$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86 
Regular $14-16-
Mon Fri 9 to 9 
Stt 9 to 5 .
Sun 12 io 15* 
! 813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadysidej_____mm mmmmmmm mm mmmm mm mmmmm mim m mmLewis
By MICHAEL LEWICKI
Tartan Staffwriter
In its quest for a new conductor, the Pitt
sburgh Symphony Orchestra need not look 
any further than Charless Dutoit. The 
~)utoit gave Heinz Halls Friday 
night audience an enchanting 
musical experience.
Dutoit, Montreal Symphonys 
conductor, has been mentioned 
as a possible successor to former Pittsburgh 
Symphony music director Andre Previn. 
And with good reason. His delicate conduc
ting was a perfect complement to the Pitts
burgh Orchestras balanced and enthusiastic 
style. Dutoit strives for a sophisticated sound. 
Im trying to reach a perfect balance bet
ween instruments to clarify the texture of the 
score, explains Dutoit.
The program opened with Mendelssohns 
Ray Bias Overture, a piece composed for a 
benefit performance of Victor Hugos play 
of the same name. The piece started in a 
mournful C minor, and developed to a 
brighter tempo in C major. The develop
ment, however, seemed to lack dynamic con
trast as the theme repeated.
It is interesting to note that in this piece 
Mendelssohn utilized the new value in
struments instead of the natural brass, allow
ing him to construct the harmony with tight 
brass chords using a complete C major scale.
Throughout the next piece, Schumanns 
Symphony No. 4 in D minor, Dutoit main
tained the orchestra in near perfect balance. 
The work progressed from a ponderous in
troduction to a sharp and powerful closing.
The nights guest performer was Elmar 
Oliviera, acclaimed as one of the greatest 
violinists of our time. His technical and emo
tional virtuosity was demonstrated with his
performance of Prokofievs Violin Concerto 
No. 2. Oliviera played with unceasing vigor 
and intensity. The concerto modulated in 
rapid passages written to demonstrate the 
virtuosic skill of the performer.
La mer, by Debussy, was the final perfor
mance of the night and the most enjoyable. 
The melodies danced around the orchestra. 
Enchanting effects were added by brilliant 
use of two harps and percussion, evoking im
ages of an ocean on a moonlit night. In this 
piece, Dutoit was in total command. The
Movie Trivia
Q: What city did Godzilla trash?
oA^ox :y
Q: What John Derek movie did Esquire call 
the Worst Movie of 1981?
ueuiady aqj uez:y 
Q: How many suns set on Tatooine?
tRhT ZB
Q: Wrhat was Mrs. Robinsons first name in 
the Graduate?
ji pauonuaui iaAau :y 
Q: What was made from the, er, stuff
dreams are made of?UODjBj 3S3J{BJ\r 91JJL .y
This week at
the Symphony
February 20 
February 21 
February 22
Rossini 
Beethoven 
George 
Roch berg 
Sibelius
Thursday (Series D,D2), 8:00 
Friday (Series A,A1), 8:30 
Saturday (Series C,C1), 8:00 
Michael Lankester, Conductor 
Salvatore Accardo, Violin 
Overture to The Voyage to Rheims 
Violin Concerto
Transcendental Variations* 
Symphony No. 5
How to get your notes in order.
Its 4 am. You and the band have just given the 
hotel room a good trashing. You feel inspired. Its time 
to write a song.
This usually consists of you draping yourself 
over a guitar, struggling to bring out the sounds that 
you hear in your head.
Theres a better way. Get a Macintosh.
With programs like MusicWorks and Profes
sional Composer, you can compose music, rearrange 
notes and play back what youve done, all with
one finger. And with the help of some additional 
hardware, you can even play your Macintosh 
through a synthesizer. Or vice versa.
This is just one example of how Macintosh 
helps people work smarter, quicker and more 
creatively. And the beauty of Macintosh is, you don't 
have to know diddley about computers to 
use one. 14-
Macintosh.When it comes to making 
music, its an extraordinary instrument.
 I9XS Apple Computer liic Apple and tlie .Appi lo#> are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, he. Macintosh is a trademark of Mdntoslr Laboratory, inc. and is being used with its express permission MusicUorks is a trademark of MacmMind. Inc licensed exclusively tollavden Software. Inc. Pmlessional Composer is a trademark of Mark of tlte I mam
ftrrrf'
dynamics were excellent. The work began 
calmly and continually increased in inten
sity. The vigorous, crashing finale ended a 
thoroughly enjoyable evening and left the 
audience in an excited and energetic mood.
Dutoit, who has been touring with the 
Montreal Symphony since 1978, has not ex
pressed permanent interest in Previns job. 
Since his three performances were so suc
cessful, it wuld be a shame for Dutoit not 
to seriously consider a career move to 
Americas most liveable city.
CMU Grad Student Robin 
Fountain named assistant 
conductor of Pgh New 
Music Ensemble
PITTSBURGH: Robin Fountain, a 
graduate student at Carnegie Mellon 
University, has been named assistant con
ductor for The Pittsburgh New Music 
Ensemble.
Mr. Fountain, who also works with the 
Pittsburgh Young Peoples Orchestras, 
received his bachelors in music from Oxford 
University in 1981, and was a student of Nor
man del Mar at the Royal College of Music 
until 1984. He has served as music director 
of the Imperial College (London Universi
ty) Operatic Society, the St. Nicholas School 
in Essex, and the Holywell Orchestra in Ox
ford, before coming to this country. He was 
a fellowship student of Paul Vermel at the 
Aspen Music Festival last year.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, 
David Stock, conductor, now in its tenth 
season of concerts at Chatham College, per
forms exclusively works of the twentieth cen
tury with an emphasis on American 
composers.
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise in 
Oaklands Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BRYour suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fullly equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, spacious closets.
Cable TV available Off street covered parking available Limo & bus at door Resident storage space Furnished units available Weekdays . . __ Weekends95 621-4132 124

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 15
famous Rider:
Arthur Kopit's End of the World
gy JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Staffwriter
Arthur Kopits play End of the World opened on January 24 at The Famous Rider 
in Oakland. Its definitely a play with a 
message as well as a puzzle to solve. The puz
zle is trying to Figure out just what the 
message of the play is. The result is good 
comedy with an interesting twist.
The play revolves around Michael Trent, 
a playwright who fancies himself a detective 
in the style of Humphrey Bogart. You know 
the type; raincoat and wide brimmed hat. 
Trent is approached by Philip Stone, a 
millionaire who wants Trent to write a play 
based on information he has on a peculiar 
subject. The subject of Stones story is 
nuclear proliferation. Stone is determined 
to have the play written. Surprisingly, when 
Trent tells Stone that no one will go to see 
the play, Stone says that hell keep the play 
running for as long as it takes. He is deter
mined to have the message of the play spread 
to everyone. The only problem is that the 
audience is not quite sure what this message 
is. Fearing to put his name on a guaranteed 
flop, Trent goes about trying to uncover the 
information that led Stone to his startling 
realization. The detective and the audience 
are thrown into a world of bureaucrats and 
military personnel who seem to know less 
than theyre willing to tell. After a midnight 
meeting with a mysterious character known 
only as The Shadow, Trent slowly unravels 
the finely spun mystery and discovers the 
source of Stones determination.
While I wont give away any secrets, I will 
give a clue to the mystery. Look at any 
Escher print (theyre in practically every
dorm room on campus). If you can figure 
out how to make water run both up and 
down or how people can climb up a stair
case and wind up exactly where they started 
then you can probably figure out the solu
tion to the mystery.
The play is presented on a bare and 
multileveled stage. Sets are carried in and 
out as they become necessary. People play 
inanimate objects ranging from a coat rack 
to a telephone to a microwave oven. If this 
sounds a bit bizarre youre right. In fact, the
parently bigger than all concerned. Mary 
Craig is equally believable as Audrey West, 
Michael Trents loyal agent. Bob Dickey 
plays Stone with less emotion than the 
character deserves. Stone should have been 
played with more passion and energy. After 
all, hes trying to prevent the end of the 
world. The rest of the cast, though, is 
marvelous. Robert C.T. Steeles direction is 
tight and Kopits story is given the room it 
needs to be effective. Kopit is a master with 
words and this play is a fine example. The
bo3X
play itself is quite unusual. Arthur Kopit has 
created an imaginative and fascinating way 
to tell a very serious story. The audience is 
allowed to have fun while discovering Stones 
dark secret.
G.W. Rooney is interesting and very fun
ny as the playwright Trent. The play is told 
essentially from Trents point of view and the 
audience develops a rapport with Trent from 
the start. Trent is played as a confused but 
credible figure caught up in something ap
show is both funny and poignant.
There are more ironies to this play than 
just in the story. In fact, the story itself is 
autobiographical. Arthur Kopit wrote the 
play after being approached himself by a 
millionaire desiring a play written about 
nuclear proliferation. End of the World runs 
at The Famous Rider through February 16. 
If you like comedy, mystery and a topical 
subject, than this play is for you.
DH 2210 Flicks
T hursday
Emperor Jones
Paul Robeson stars in the story of a Pullman 
porter who, convicted of murder, escapes to 
a tropical island and sets himself up as 
emperor. This is the English version of the 
Eugene ONeill directed by Dudley Murphey. Murphey remains admirable faithful 
to the ONeill play. One of Paul Robesons 
most memorable roles.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.50
Friday
The Good, The Bad and the Ugly
Probably the most successful spaghetti 
westerns, directed by Sergio Leone. Clint 
Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef and Eli Wallach 
star as the title characters, respectively. The 
three are all chasing down a treasure chest 
buried by the Confederate Government dur
ing the Civil War. The opening sequence 
alone is a humorous, clever twist on the 
classic western showdown.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.75
Saturday
Kentucky Fried Movie
One of the funniest movies of the 70s. A col
lection of satirical skits, it spoofs everything 
from TV talk shows to kung-fu movies. 
Written and performed in part by the Ken
tucky Fried Theatre, Jim Abrahams, David 
and Jerry Zucker leave no joke unturned 
from their comedic bag of tricks. Directed 
by John Landis with a no-holds-barred at
titude that allows for extremely irreverent 
humor.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 4.0
[ULO MonsterMac!
(S)  Up to 2 megs contigous
memory -1.8meg ramdisk
 25% faster thanFat Mac
 68000 parallel connector
 2 spare EPROM sockets
 120 day warranty
 Levco dealer 
Call 683-6244
KAMQUEST
SYSTEMS
KAPLAN
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
In New State Stanley H Kaplan Educational Cenlet Lid 
Corner Cent-, Negley Ave. at Baum Blvd., Pgh., Pa. 15206
PREGNANT?
And lfou didnt mean to be? 
por a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Patricia K: Over-Achiever
Attend a Fra ABtec Support 
Group Meeting This Saturday 
From 9:30 a.m. until Noon
Patricia K. has a perfect 4.0 grade point average, is am accomplished musician, 
member of the National Honor Society, and president of her schools Drama Club. She is 
the devoted daughter, as well as the friend in whom all others confide.
But its not enough. At 5'7", and 85 pounds, Patricia K. thinks she's fat. And now her 
world is falling apart.
Patricia K., over-achiever, is starving herself to death.
National publicity has led to an increasing awareness of the devastating effects of 
anorexia nervosa  self-induced starvation  and bulimia  the binge-purge syndrome.
While anorexia and bulimia can affect anyone, most victims are females between the 
ages of 10 and 34.
But help is available ... at the greater Pittsburgh areas Anorexia Bulimia Treatment 
and Education Center (ABtec*1) at The Medical Center of Beaver County. It has a specially 
trained staff to help you deal with your illness through a variety of services. This includes 
an inpatient treatment program and an ABtec Support Group, which provides an opportu
nity for open discussion of feelings, attitudes and behaviors associated with these eating disorders.
For Patricia K.  and many others like her  her biggest achievement is still within 
reach: accepting the fact she needs help and getting back on the road to good health and self-esteem.
The Anorexia Bulimia Treatment 
and Education Center atThe Medical Center of Beaver County
1000 Dutch Ridge Road 
Beaver. Pennsylvania 15009 Within RA phone toi-free 
1-800-62ABTEC Outside PA phone loi-free
1-800-78ABTEC
H. Kaplan
SmartMOVE!
MCAT  DAT 
CALL 
661-2772

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
Dance and Jazz merge perfectly at Heinz Hall
By LISA McANANY &
BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Editors
Thanks to the miracles of cable television, 
music and visual images have been fused 
together causing a revolution in todays 
popular music score. But after watching the 
Murray Louis Dance Company perform to 
the sounds of the Dave Brubeck Quartet, 
MTV and its counterparts offer a pale com
parison with respect to combining musical 
and visual experiences.
Jazz and modern dance, two art forms 
which get their creative inspiration from im
provisation, have rarely been in a form bet
ter than that presented at Heinz Hall on 
Saturday, February 1. Independently, both 
Brubeck and Louis are considered among 
the best and most innovative in their respec
tive fields, and when combined they are an 
unparallelled tandem.
The two-hour program presented by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council consisted of four 
distinct works. The show opened with 
Glances, a five movement pure dance com
missioned in 1976 Music and Dance Project 
of the American Dance Festival.
This work was performed to a recording 
of music written by Brubeck and arranged 
and performed by his son Darius Brubeck. 
Murray Louis choreographed the piece 
which depicted a series of child-like games.
Each game began with the dancers for
ming a circle, until one dancer worked his 
or her way into the foreground. Each move
ment proceeded at a different tempo 
prescribed by the music. The Glances alter
nated between upbeat segments with a
ragtime flavor to the music, seasoned with 
quick and jagged movements, and slow, 
steady segments progressing through un
natural yet seemingly graceful movements. 
All five movements ended with an abstract 
rendering of the dancers final pose, pro
jected onto a large backdrop.
Murray Louis himself took the stage for 
the second part of the program. In his self
choreographed solo, Frail Demons, a suite 
in four parts, Louis demonstrated incredi
ble muscular control. Using shuddering, 
flame-like motions, Louis suggested despair and 
disorder accentuated by the bizarre and at 
times haunting score of Alwin Nikolais. 
Although Louis costume was a simple beige 
coverall, the subtle images of the set and the
dancers technical excellence made foi a 
stunning, highly emotional experience. 
Louis was truly poetry in motion.
After the intermission, the Dave Brubeck 
Quartet took the stage and shifted the mood 
from one of quiet tension to one of jazzy ex
citement. Taking a slight departure from the 
traditionally unorthodox Brubeck sound, 
the Quartet performed pieces in tribute to 
Duke Ellington, starting off with The Duke 
composed by Brubeck. The sounds were 
joyous and upbeat. The Quartet consists of 
Brubeck on the piano, Bill Smith, an 
original member who used a synthesizer to 
produce a dual tone, on clarinet; Chris 
Brubeck, Daves son, who moved from bass 
to trombone with remarkable results on 
each; and Randy Jones, who rilled off a 
high-spirited Buddy Rich-like solo, on 
drums.
Without pausing, the Quartet was accom
A Murray Louis dancer backed by Dave Brabeck
panied by the Murray Louis Dancers for the 
final selection of the program. Unsquare 
Dance, Koto Song, Three To Get Ready, and 
Take Five comprised Four Brubeck Pieces. 
All were played and danced brilliantly, but 
the final song was the real crowd pleaser. 
The unusually rythmic and open style of 
Take Five, Brubecks signature piece (writ
ten by past Brubeck alumnus, Paul Des
mond) allowed the dancers an opportunity 
to let their own personal styles come out. 
Through a series of breathtaking solos
featuring each of the dancers, it became ap
parent that the dancers were having fun per
forming and the audience was having even 
more fun watching.
What Louis, 59, and Brubeck, 66, lack 
in youthful flamboyance, they more than 
atone for with years of experience, as well 
as deeply-routed emotional energy and 
spirit. When these two virtuoso artists ap
pear on stage together, they create a feast 
for the eyes, ears and spirit.
CMU Drama Department:Lee Sankowich directs The Women
PITTSBURGH: The Drama Department 
at Carnegie Mellon University will stage 
Clare Booth Luces satrical play The 
Women Feb. 12-22 at the Kresge Theater.
Director Lee Sankowich, known to Pitt
sburgh audiences for his direction of Pitt
sburgh Public Theater productions such as 
Becoming Memories and The Real Thing,
is directing the play.
I plan to create a Vanity Fair like set
ting with the costumes and staging, 
Sankowich says. Todays audiences may find 
this play even more amusing and more 
satirical than those who first saw the play 
in 1937.
DEBRA ABELL 6AmAdermatologist
 student discount available
 easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 682-0616
MasterCard. \ isa accepted 
Call appointment
Sankowich wants to counteract the plays 
attack on women by striking a feminist note, 
everyone connected with the production, 
from stage manager to stage hands are all 
women. The entire cast is made up of 
women.
In a sense we have made real progress in 
the last 50 years in the way women are 
treated by playwrights, says Sankowich. Yet 
much of what occurs in the playthe in
teraction among the characters is essential
ly unchanged because it is representative of 
romantic triangles and relationships. It is the 
setting and the preoccupation with what to
day we would consider trivial pastimes that 
is so different.
Sankowich notes that several characters 
have a full complement of domestic help, 
maids, nannies and cooks.
The play is described as a razor edged 
comedy that attacks the elite class of women 
prevalent in the late 30s.
Some of the scenes take place during tea, 
at the beauty parlor, in a boudoir and in 
Reno Hotel catering to divorcees.
Appearing in the production are juniors 
and seniors in the Drama Departments 
program.
Sankowich says, Costume designer Terri 
Fluker has recreated the sophisiticated look 
of the era with satins, velvets and furs. She 
frequented several vintage clothing shops to 
find items with just the right dramatic flair.
Curtain times for the play are 8:00 p.m. 
Feb. 12-15 and Feb. 19-22, with 2:00 p.m. 
performances on Feb. 15 and 22.
For ticket information contact the Box 
Office at 268-2407.
SPRINGBREAK
Help us sponsor your 
Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona 
or Key West trip and 
you go for free!
(800) 542 *003 TOI.I. KR UK
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Huoaipf
53t North Nevil Street. Oakland 
(within walking distanc e of campus
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
W ORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOW SHIP: 7:30 
PM $t parsonage. 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hocter 083-4440
UUown'HaoKhS*fvkM
Time to... Care More, Share More
United Why
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center.................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh..............................................?......................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection...............................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid.................................................................................................. 281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 17
Realism to Abstraction at Forbes Gallery
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Dave Biber, Don Conley, and Brandon 
Copans are showing sculpture and sculptural 
painting at the Forbes Gallery through Sun
day February 9. The exhibit, which runs the 
gamut from realism to abstraction, opens 
tonight at 7 PM.
Brandon Copans sculpture is realistic, 
although it minimizes the figurative ele
ment. He concentrates upon rundown ur
ban settings, using metal, paint, and lights 
to impart some sort of mood or story to the 
viewer. Some may be familiar with Night 
Theater, an installation Copans had in the 
Ellis Gallery last year; the installation was
The Spectator:
featured on the television program Evening 
Magazine. He is showing four pieces this 
week, all of which are made to hang on a 
wall. New York City is a small metal cityscape of highly refined copper and silver. 
Encounter, the predecessor of the series, 
shows two dressmakers dummies behind a 
lighted window. Isolation and Back Street 
both make use of light and architecture to 
emphasize the loneliness of humanity in a 
big city.
Copans says of his work that The win
dows are a vehicle to tell the story The sur
faces show history, a juxtaposition of the in
dividual and domestic spaces, in rundown
urban settings...The lighting and drawing 
are somewhat theatrical, but they embrace 
a bunch of elements into a personal man
ner of doing sculpture.
David Bibers sculpture is more formal in 
nature than Copans. He is showing nine 
pieces, five sculptures and four sculptural 
paintings, which range in height from one 
to three feet. He uses car paints in bright, 
industrial colors on fiberglass to reveal 
gesture, portraits, faces, and movement. He 
says, I allow the viewers to make their own 
interpretations.
Don Conley is showing sculptural pain
tings done on a variety of surfaces in hard
ware store enamel. He prefers this sort of 
paint because it is preliquefied, not in a 
tube; he lays his paintings on the floor to 
work on them, instead of hanging them on 
a wall. His paintings are composed of many 
shapes glued together and painted. He says 
that this is a matter of False illusionism. It 
looks like planes are passing through each 
other. Theyre painted planes but theyre real 
planes. That dictates that they would be 
shaped pieces. The colors of these pieces are 
rather soft and romantic, echoing land
scape. Conley may also be showing a con
ventional rectangular canvas and some air
brush paintings which progress from illu
sionism to violent, painterly marks.
CMU Students perform Mamet's Glengarry Glenn Ross
By JONATHAN STEELE
Special to the Tartan
Hey! F--- you! F--- you!, etc. People 
who go to a David Mamet play usually leave 
with an intense impression of crude, coarse 
language. However, Mr. Mamets dialog has 
a poetic music that seduces the listener into 
its rhythms and intonations. The spill of 
shocking sounds become harmless, and a 
sense of a unique, very masculine com
munication is projected.
The studio production of GLENGARRY 
GLEN ROSS is the third Pulitzer Prize win
ner presented by drama department 
students, following Thorton Wilders THE 
MATCHMAKER, and Beth Henleys 
CRIMES OF THE HEART The progression 
of these plays seems to show a disillusion
ment in the country. GLENGARRY, pro
duced in the early 1980s, is a vicious,
negative portrayal of middle-class businessmen, 
and it contrasts sharply with the idyllic 
warmth of THE MATCHMAKER, produc
ed in the seemingly simple World War II era 
that we look back on with nostalgia; a period 
when moral decisions seemed easier to make, 
and when good guys and bad guys were 
clearly differentiated.
In GLENGARRY GLEN ROSS, Mr. 
Mamet continues his scathing portrayal of 
contemporary America. The play seems to 
show no hope, or redeeming chance to 
change. It is a Hyper Realistic portrait of 
pure negative business motives and methods, 
and seems to be part of the recent bash of 
driving, relentless negative portrayals of con
temporary values like David Rabes 
HURLEY BURLEY.
Of course, this seems to imply that the 
author, an artist, is not like this, and that
he is looking down from an ivory tower of 
purity of motive. I wonder what Mr. Mamet 
is like in his negotiations with his agent for 
rights to his plays, and fees for his 
screenplays? Certainlv not the crass businessman 
he portrays. He must know how to put 
butter on his economic knife.
The Senior Project was nicely directed by 
Seth Gordon, especialy considering the 
limitations of budget imposed. One of his 
nice touches was the use of Chicago accents. 
Mamet actually wrote this play based on ex
periences as an employee of a real estate 
company in Chicago, and in a recent inter
view gave a there but for the grace of God 
scenario to his fortunate leaving.
The acting ensemble did a good job. Stan
douts were Michael Hartson as the 
smooth-talking Richard Roma, Tom
Willmorth as the confused George Aaranow, 
Marcus Lovett as the aging, tired Shelly 
Levene, and Kevin Black as the intense, cold 
John Williamson.
Craig Waletzko and Delbert Highlands 
carried off thier characterizations, but 
without depth. Director Gordon and actor 
Chistopher Coad should have toughened up 
the interpretation of Detective Baylen, who 
should have been a menacing, retributive 
presence, not a pleading guy trying to do a 
job.
The set worked, and considering the lack 
of budget, scene designer Douglas Lincon 
did all that could be expected. Lighting by 
Adam Kushner was also good. The choices 
of music were alright, but sound designer 
Michael Hissrich could have had his volume 
higher.
THE CMU PHILOSOPHY CWB PRESENTS 
The renowned Jonathan Pressler's lecture
OBJECTIVIST ETHICS: 
A CRITIQUE
OPEN TO CAMPUS COMMUNITY.
Those dapper dudes from the Philosophy Club 
are doin' it again!
PRAISE FOR PRES.
THOMAS MENNER:
"Whatta Guy../E. KANT
RAVES FOR VICE-PRES.
MARK CARR:
"Suave, debonair...a real 
cruiser.'A. RAND
SEE WHAT EVERYONE'S TALKIN' ABOUT!!!
WHEN: Wednesday, Feb. 5th at 7:30 p.m.
WHERE: DH 1212

---------------------------------------------------

WMaa
iWWO^lWHi
s att ?
CMU 
Computer Store
Help fight MS.
JoinSDC and "The Time' 
at the
"Rock-Alike Airband1
March 1
DJ
Vinyl Frontiers
Friday February 7
9 pm -1 am 
Skibo Ballroom 
Plus 
MTV Video Show 
in the Wherrett Room
sponsored by MS fund raising 
drive - donations would be 
appreciated
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Zuckerboards !
1/2 board memory expansion
$63.00Card allows expansion of your personal 
computer system to its capacity of 640k. 
Uses 64k or 256k chips!
Fits in Short Slot of XT or Portable! 
Two Year Warranty!
Zuckerboard64k
256k (256k chips)
$63.00
14.00
32.00
camegie
melln
Funded by Activities Fee
no;> vi iiii

---------------------------------------------------

_____________________Sports.
Hoopsters fall prey to hungry Grove City team
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
It was not pretty, was the way Head Coach Gerri Seidl termed last Saturdays loss 
to Grove City. The Women Hoopsters proved 
to be the perfect guests, as they left their 
hosts with a 72-46 victory.
The contest started out slowly for the Tar
tans, as they quickly fell to a 6-0 deficit. 
Freshman forward Aimee Reber tallied the 
first Carnegie Mellon points to put her team 
in the game.
As the visitors tried to get it together, the 
match stayed close, but according to coach 
Seidl, we just started to throw the ball away.
A 10-minute, 11-point scoring run by 
Grove City midway through the first stanza 
left the Tartans frustrated, as the hosts 
repeatedly broke through CMUs man-to-man 
defense.
At the close of the half, the scoreboard 
read: Grove City 37; Carnegie Mellon 17.
Regrouping during the half-time break, 
the Tartans came out running. They chang
ed their strategy to half-court trap, which, 
when it was executed, kept the opposition 
to only four baskets.
The hoopsters almost doubted their firsthalf score, with 29 tallies in the stanza. Grove 
City, unfortunately, stayed true to form, as 
they edged their score up to 72.
Shooting only 35% from the field, the 
squad just couldnt seem to hit. The oppor
tunities were numerous, but the ball never 
connected.
Freshman guard Lisa Lightner was the 
only hoopster to break into the double 
figures, with 12 tallies. Classmates Alison 
Guy and Reber added nine and eight points, 
respectively.
Scoring and rebounding left Carnegie 
Mellon frustrated, however, as Grove City 
highscorer Monica Yustak more than 
doubled Lighters contribution
Statistics show the two teams to be evenly 
matched, as each squad garnered 20 tur
novers, the home team had only one more 
steal then the visitors, and the Tartans out
did their rivals in blocked shots.
Roseanna Neupauer outdribbles the
By the midway point of the first half it was 
all Carnegie Mellon, last Thursday night, as 
the home squad scored a convincing 79-63 
victory over Conference opponents, the 
Bethany Bisons.
The Bisons looked like they had a chance 
when the contest opened, as they steamed 
out to a quick four point lead. The lead was 
short-lived, however, as freshman standout 
Aimee Reber dropped in two consecutive 
field goals to tie the match. The teams ex
changed tallies, and kept the game tied 6-6 
until the five-minute mark when Valerie 
Sooky hit from outside and pushed the home 
team ahead.
The hoopsters increased the padding byAttitude overlookedr...
opponent. photo by Andy Gillespie
six, hut only briefly as the Bisons made what 
would be their final attempt at victory, ty
ing the score. The Tartans were hot, 
however, as they hit consistently from the 
floor, to close the stanza with a 14 point 
lead.Freshmen stars Lisa Lightner and Beth 
Virgin were all ready in the double figures 
at the halfway mark, garnering 14 and 11 
tallies, respectively.
As a whole, the squad was shooting an im
pressive 71% from the line, and they topped 
the visitors statistics all the way down the 
score sheet.
The second half began with Bethany 
gaming possession, but the hoopsters soon 
took over by way of a foul. Virgin and
Lightner proved the perfect duo as they 
combined to drop in the first two buckets 
of the period.
The Bisons could only muster one basket 
in return, followed by a steal from Tartan 
Roseanna Neupauer.
Shots came from all over the court, as 
Virgin repeatedly hit from outside while 
Reber and sophomore Joy Braxton kept a 
close watch on balls under the net.
Desperation hit the visitors early on, as 
several passes were thrown away. On one of 
the resulting in-bounds, Neupauer sent a 
bullet down court to the waiting Virgin, who 
dropped in two.
With 9:53 remaining, a crowd under the 
basket finally led to a basket by Reber 
followed by the Bison offense taking posses
sion only to lose it on a Patti Sparrow re
bound. Carnegie Mellon called a time out 
to regroup.
Senior co-captain Nancy Dilulio showed 
the fans some fancy footwork as she collected 
a pass from Neupauer and headed down 
court eventually setting Virgin up on the 
endline for a tally.
The score read 75-54, Carnegie Mellon, 
with four minutes to play. The contest began 
to get messy at this point, as numerous Bison 
attempts were made and repelled. The fouls 
started to add up, forcing several visiting 
players to take the bench.
The Tartans tried to run out the clock, 
and as the final buzzer sounded, they found 
themselves successful, with a key PAC vic
tory 79-63.
Center Beth Virgin left her mark on the 
night with a game high of 23 points. She was 
followed closely by classmates Lightner and 
Reber with nine and seven baskets, 
respectively.
Virgin virtually dominated the defensive 
side, also, pulling down an unheard of 18 
rebounds.
The hoopsters will host the First Ladies 
of Washington and Jefferson College this 
Wednesday in a 6 p.m. tip-off. Over the 
weekend the squad will travel to Ohio for a 
Saturday contest at Hiram College.
Sparkplug Stan Terlecki sparks Spirit scoring
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
One person who was definitely not sup
posed to be in a Spirit uniform this year was Stan Terlecki.
The high scoring, but temperamental, 
forward was unable to come to terms with 
the Spirit, and announced his impending 
return to his native Poland. But the MISL season started, and Stan was still in Pittsburgh.
I'he Spirit started well, but slipped and 
hovered around the .500 level. GM Chris 
Wright and Coach Don Popovic started 
looking for a catalyst, and thats where 
Terlecki re-entered the picture. What ever his faults, attitudinal or otherwise, one thing 
Stan Terlecki can do is score goals. Lots of goals. And the goals he scores seem to always 
lead to more goals. Terlecki himself reaffirms 
this If you can score a goal, it picks up the team and the fans. Every time you score a goal, its like new wings.
terlecki has a total of 297 points in the 
MISL, all as a member of the Spirit, makIng him the team leader in that category. He 
finished in the top ten in MISL scoring in two of the last three years and has 
^presented Pittsburgh on the All-Star team 
lor those two years. "3J
But he has had problems. He went AWOL trom the Spirit last season, but returned 
after a few games, It is clear that he doesnt 
frel entirely comfortable in the MISL, but
it probably beats losing his US green card 
and returning to Poland. He is often 
outspoken and opinionated, a trait that has
raised the ire of some teammates.
Despite the feathers he ruffles, he has an 
ally in Coach Don Popovic. If Stan is ready,
Fancy footwork by the controversial Terlecki.phota by Andy Gillespie
we are 100% there. It was Popovic who 
eventually persuaded the homesick Pole to 
practice with the team, and based on those 
practices, to play again.
The return of Stan Terlecki was not a 
grand event. Enroute to a December 21 away 
game versus Cleveland, the team bus pull
ed over into a McDonalds parking lot. 
Popovic then announced that this was where 
Stan Terlecki was rejoining the Spirit, and 
anyone who didnt like it could get off the 
bus. No one got off the bus. But in his debut 
against Cleveland he sprained his left knee, 
sidelining him for almost a month.
The Spirit tried to ease the pressure on 
Terlecki by giving him plenty of time to re
bound from the injury. Although he was 
ready to play versus Chicago at home on 
January 17, his return (or re-return) was 
delayed until the next night at Dallas.
Versus the Dallas Sidekicks, he showed 
some natural flair by scoring a late gametying goal to send the game into overtime, 
and scored in his next game, versus Tacoma. 
In his return home, again facing the 
Sidekicks, he scored the game winner. He 
also racked up a goal against leaguechampion San Diego.
Despite his scoring antics, the Spirit for
ward is not still not 100%. Coach Popovic 
noted His mind is still on the knee. Its just 
mental...two or three more games, hell be 
dynamite. I've waited eight months for him 
to play the way he should

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
You win a few, you lose a few, its a cliche, 
yet it sums up the week for the mens basket
ball Tartans. Wednesday night, they rose to 
the occasion defeating Bethany College 
86-65. Saturday, however, they came up 
short against Grove City 67-60.
The Tartans had been battling the flu all 
week, and that forced Head Coach Larry 
Anderson to make some changes in the 
lineup. Junior Jay Bender played very little 
at guard against Bethany, and did not make 
the trip to Grove City. With Bender out, 
Junior Roger DeVries saw his first real action 
on Wednesday. With Tom Franklin unable 
to play as much as he usually does, DeVries 
took charge scoring 11 points, six assists, and 
five rebounds; his efforts had him named 
WRCT Player of the Game.
Also starring for the Tartans was center 
Hart Coleman who led all with 21 players 
and 10 rebounds. Strong play also came 
from Pete Cwalina, Richard Neff, and 
David Bart. With the Tartans up by almost 
30 midway through the second half, Coach 
Anderson was able to see more of his bench. 
Everyone saw action except David Sikora 
and Scott Saxton. Coach Anderson had this 
to say about the Bethany game, Most of the 
guys that played: Coleman, Neff, Cwalina, 
By STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
At the beginning of the PAC season, the 
coaches were polled apd predicted the Tar
tans to place second in the league. With the 
conference season just past the midpoint, 
^xfxiig^x^xixCarnegie Mellon is in the mid
dle of the pack at 3-3 (7-7 
overall). What has happened to 
"''the Tartans this season-*
The biggest problem the Tartans have 
had this season has been their inconsistent 
play. Carnegie Mellon has not had a streak
and DeVries werent sick. Roger played a 
good game, were gonna try to get him into 
the game a little more.
Saturday night was not as good for the 
Tartans going down to Grove City 67-60. The 
game started out similarly to their first 
meeting, with both teams playing very tight 
ball, in the first half the Tartans controlled 
the board, but Deron Ryan and Kris 
Lightcap of Grove City kept on hitting from 
outside to give Grove City a 32-31 lead at 
halftime.
In the second half, things did not go as 
well for the Tartans. The Wolverines were 
able to get more pressure inside with their 
big men Joe Buckley and Kris Lightcap, 
while Deron Ryan continued to have the hot 
hand, leading all scorers with 30 points. 
Several times in the second half, the Tartans 
would bring the ball down miss their shots 
and see Grove City drive back down the 
court and get the ball in. The poor shooting 
by the Tartans kept them from getting back 
into the game.
The Tartans were led by WRCT Player of 
the Game David Bart, who was the Tartan 
scoring leader with 18, including 6 of 6 from 
the line, Bart s second perfect night in a row 
from the line. Hart Coleman was second for 
the Tartans with 17 including three slam 
dunks, bringing him up to 9 for the season.
Gillespie
Junior guard Dave Bart carries the ball upcourt, as center Hart Coleman 
prepares to receive the pass. The hoopsters defeated Bethany, at home, last 
Wednesday, 86-65.
will be shown 
Sunday 
February 9 
Doherty Hall 2210 
6,8,10,12
Admission $1.00
Rugby Club Fundraiser
SUPA
Petitions available at the Skibo Info Desk, February 3 - February 17.
Sponsored by Student SenateFunded by Student Activities Fee
Men's hoop squad: "You win a few, you lose a few
THERE IS ONE STUDENT 
SENATE VACANCY IN
FLASHDANCE


---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 21
Intramural ReportSwim Teams host Meet; 
Crush all competitionThe basketball courts have been anything 
but empty this week, as the IM season is well 
underway. The Majors are showing tough 
competition all the way around as the ATO 
Wolfpack leads the A'y Division with an 
undefeated 4-0 record. The Skywalkers and 
Beta-A, however, are close at the leaders 
heels, at 3-1 and 2-1, respectively.
On the B side, The Pretty Boys are in 
the number one slot at 3-2, with the City 
Kids and Pika-A closing in fast.
The Intermediate League is crammed 
with teams leaving the standings relatively 
even throughout. Both the A and B Divi
sions show ties for first, with the Alabama 
Slammers, the Crabs, the Penetrators, and 
Betas Quigley all at 1-0 in the former. Kap
pa Sigma-B, the UDS Lakers, and Jordans 
Angels boast the honor in the latter.
Moving to the "C Divisionthe Yanks 
have pulled ahead at 2-0, while the Dynamic 
Rams and Hubba Hubba are also 
undefeated, but have only played one game 
apiece.
Betas Woooglin Five and the Touring 
Machine boast the number one title in the 
D Division, with the Sudsuckers close 
behind.
The leading teams in the E and F Divi
sions each sport a 2-0 record. Busters 
Highmen are tops on the E side, tailed by 
the Conglomeration and the Math Grads. 
Kappa Sig-A holds the blue ribbon, with 
DU A just one game behind in the F 
Division.
The Minors section looks much the same 
way with three-way ties for the top slot in 
both the Carolina and Pitt Divisions. KE, 
Pilam, and Mudge Club lead all Carolina 
teams, while the Chiefs, Donner-2, and the 
Gumbies all stand at 1-0 for the Pitt 
Division.
Of the two games played in the Maryland 
Division, Sure Defeat and TDP dropped 
their respective opponents.
Victorious in the Syracuse Division were 
the ROTC Rangers, the ATO Hosers and 
DU-B, while the Georgetown Division left 
KDR, the Deans List and the Hfctory Grads 
with a slash in the win column.
Finally, in the Dude Division, the 
Slimeballs hold the wreath boasting a 2-0 
record, with the Death Game at 1-0.
On the Womens side, action was slow, but 
Kappa Krush currently leads, followed by 
Steel Zeplin at the .500 mark.
All basketball teams are reminded to 
return any equipment checked out from the 
IM equipment room.
SPORTS IN SEASON:
Chess
Ieams are asked to report final results 
to Commissioner Bob Roka - x8989.
Darts
Commisssioner: Pat Carey -x4778 
Teams are asked to GET THE FINALS 
PLAYED!
Handball
Commissioner: E.J. Birdy-x2214 
Final entries due: Thursday, February 6, at 
4:30 p.m., in the IM office.
Pinochle
Commissioner: Vince Carozza-687 8940 
Schedules are out and may be picked up in 
the IM office.
Backgammon
Commissioner: Ted Bross-682-5134 
Sc hedules are out and may be picked up in
the IM office.
SPORTS COMING UP:
1 loor Hockey
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman  683-3739 
^11 floor hockey captains who did not attetrti 
the January 30 rules clinic MUST see Mr. 
^irdy in the IM office before their teams will 
Permitted to compete. Games will begin
February 10.
Wrestling
Commissioner: Joe Kiefler687-6964 
Practice sessions: Primary: M-W-F
3:30-5:00; Secondary: M-W 7:00-9:00; 
Weekend: Saturday 10:00-11:30 
ALL SESSIONS WILL BE HELD IN 
THISTLE HALL!! Matches will be held 
Saturday, March 1 at 9:00 a.m. in Thistle 
Hall.
LAST CALL: 
Water Basketball
Commissioner: open (if youre interested 
contact E.J. Birdy)
Final entry date: Thursday, February 6, at 
4:30 p.m., in the IM office 
Table Tennis
Final entry date: Thursday, February 6, at 
4:30 p.m., in the IM office .
SPORTS IN THE FUTURE:
The following sports entries will be due 
Thursday, February 20: Call Pool, Co-Rec 
Badminton, Foul Shooting, and Co-Rec 
Table Tennis. Any questions, please contact 
the IM office.
The next meeting of the Intramural 
Board will be Thursday, February 6, at 12:30 
p.m., in the IM office-Gym 101.
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan swimming teams took big wins 
this week, as the Men beat Gannon, Hiram 
College, and Bethany, while the Women 
took a big win over Bethany.
Both teams opened the week with 
crushing victories over Bethany College, as 
the men were victorious, 60-35, while the 
women posted a 61-25 win. The men won 
the the 400 medley relay, as Doug Beissecker, 
Mike Fitzgerald, Whitney Foster, and Hal 
Levine powered their way to a first place 
finish.
Rob Summers led all opponents in the 
200 freestyle, and a second in the 200 
backstroke.
Tartan All-American Steve Francis chalk
ed up more wins to his already impressive 
list with victories in the 500 meter freestyle 
and the 200 individual medley. Star Mike 
Fitzgerald also helped Carnegie Mellon with 
a win in the 100 meter breaststroke.
The Lady Tartans were led to victory by 
a strong team effort, as they won 8 of the
11 events. The 200 meter medley relay team 
of Carol Pampino, Nancy Ott, Francesca 
Crannell, and Suzie Kelly started the meet 
with a 10 second w7in.
The male natators came away victorious 
last week in a triple meet with Gannon and 
Hiram Colleges. The key to the meet was the 
consecutive 1-2 finishes of the Tartans in the 
200 fly and the 100 freestyle.
John Olsavsky and co-captain Chris Leech 
placed 1-2 in the fly, while Steve Francis and 
Whitney Foster won for the Tartans in the 
freestyle. Gannon was able to catch up with 
uncontested wins in both diving competi
tions, as the Carnegie Mellon team currently 
does not have any diving competitors.
Mike Fitzgerald helped the Tartans with 
a win in the 100 meter breaststroke. The Tar
tans could have put away the meet solidly 
with a win in the final event, the 400 meter 
freestyle relay, however, the Gannon team 
touched out the Tartans to move closer in 
points, but the power of the points which the 
Tartans got in the 200 fly and 100 freestyle 
gave the Tartans the victory.
You selected your career. 
Now select j A 
your lifestyle.
We are HRB-Singer, Inc., a world leader in 
electronic signal processing and analysis. Here at 
HRB-Singer, Inc., we believe you should work hard 
and play hard. We believe hardware, software and 
systems engineers should use todays technology to 
create tomorrows state-of-the-art. And we believe 
you will find our topics to be among the most 
challenging in the world: RF, ANALOG AND 
DIGITAL HARDWARE DESIGN, SOFTWARE 
SYSTEMS, COLLECTION AND PROCESSING 
SYSTEMS, ADVANCED COMMUNICATIONS 
TECHNIQUES and DIGITAL PROCESSING. 
All positions require BSEE, BS Comp. Sci., or
equivalent scientific degree and the ability to perform 
effectively on key government, military and interna
tional customer contracts. U.S. citizenship necessary 
for all positions. Some of the above positions may re
quire a special background investigation.
At our headquarters in State College, Pennsylvania, 
youll find a refreshing intellectual climate and a 
friendly community set against a backdrop of moun
tains, lakes and pure fresh air. The Pennsylvania State 
University is here with its sports and academic pro
grams and a wealth of cultural activities. Talk to our 
on-campus representative and find out more about the 
opportunities waiting for you.
Sign-ups start February 7 at placement office.
Interviewing:
February 21, 1986.
Technical Presentation:
February 20, 1986 
6-8:00 pm Skibo Room 12
Refreshments will be served.SINGER
HRB-SINGER, INC.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
Booters lose
by JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Representing Carnegie Mellon in the 
Spirit/Nike Indoor Tournament at the Civic 
Arena last Saturday, was the Mens Varsity 
Soccer Team. In its first outing of the winter 
season, the squad fell to a violent Bethany 
team in the quarter-final round of 
competition.
The booters took immediate possession at 
the outset of the match, but it soon turned 
out to be a defensive struggle for the Tar
tans. Despite repeated efforts by the duo of 
Charlie Lockhead and Doug Anderson, 
Bethany scored first.
Anderson made a valiant effort to answer 
the Bison tally but wTas repelled by the op
posing keeper. Bethany came back just 
minutes later to add another goal to their 
cause.
Though the first stanza found Carnegie 
Mellon scoreless, the booters tallied in the 
form of Anderson only four minutes into the 
second period. Several shots were taken by 
a crowd around the net, and Anderson was 
in the right place at the right time when 
he connected on the rebound to put his team
to Bisons in quarter final action
in the game.
The squads exchanged goals at about the 
four minute mark. The Bisons hit the net 
first, but before they knew what had hit 
them, Anderson found the twine once again.
Unfortunately, this would be the end of 
the scoring for the Tartans leaving them with 
a hard-fought 5-2 loss.
The Tartan offense was backed up by the 
outstanding play of defenseman Alex 
Tomlinson, and the sterling goal-keeping of 
veteran Sam Montague and sophomore John 
Sembler.
Preceding this play-off match, the booters 
sported a 2-1 record in the preliminary 
rounds, dropping Grove City and St. Vin
cents, but falling prey to Beadling.
The evening began with a disappointing 
4-2 loss to Beadling. Tallies by sophomore 
PAC-pick Kevin Jung and Lockhead were 
not enough to push the squad ahead.
The booters faced St. Vincents College in 
their second outing of the night, coming up 
victorious, 2-0, behind the combined talents 
of Montague and Sembler, with eight and 
seven saves, respectively.
Shots came from all over the court in the
first half, but the Tartans seemed a little rus
ty, and just could not slide one past the op
posing net minder. The second stanza, 
however, brought the Tartans alive, as they 
tallied at the 8:30 mark, but the goal was 
disqualified due to a penalty.
This setback did not discourage Carnegie 
Mellon, as Anderson stunned the keeper just 
two minutes later. Lockhead blasted the 
primary shot, but came up short, leaving 
Anderson to the rebound.
With less than one minute remaining, a 
St. Vincent side-in was turned around by 
Jung, who capitalized on a bad pass. The 
sophomore standout carried the sphere 
down the left side, faked around an un
suspecting defender, and finally let loose 
outside the box to blow one by the stunned 
goalie. At the buzzer, Carnegie Mellon had 
won, 2-0.
Grove City provided the opposition for the 
next contest, as the Tartans exploded for five 
goals to send the out-of-towners home with 
a 5-2 loss.
At the outset, the booters looked weary, 
as they seemed to just sit back and watch the 
action. Graduate Neil Frink, however,
ed his teammates to life with a shot from the 
red line that sailed lightly into the twine, giving the Tartans a 1-0 lead.
Frink later began the drive that would 
give the squad another tally as he tapped a 1 
loose ball back to netminder John Sembler. I 
Sembler tossed out a leading throw to the f 
waiting Anderson, who in turn, took the 
outside shot for his fourth score of the 
evening.
About a minute later, Jung made the play 
he executes so well, as he carried the ball | 
up the middle only to shoot a bullet past the j 
outstretched arms of the Grove City keeper. J
Grove City came out smoking in the seI 
cond half, but the fire burned out after onj 
ly one goal was scored. The well-settled Tar
tans, however, were not happy with only a 
one-point lead, as sophomore Alan Mayr 
tallied an insurance goal on a picture-perfect 
pass from captain Lockhead.
Proving their worth, seniors John Kenney j 
and John Spanos combined to drop in the 
final tally.
Netminders Montague and Sembler show
ed their true colors, as the duo stopped a 
total of 14 Grove
iere we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound1 can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip.From February 15 through April 27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date 
of purchase.So this Spring Break, get a real break.Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound.
Must present a valid college student I D card upon purchase. No xher discounts apply Tickets are 
nontransfcrabie and good for travel on Greyhound Line, Inc., and other participating earners. Certain 
restrictions apply O&r effective 2/15/86. Offer limited Not valid in Canada.GO GREYHOUNDAnd leavethe driving to us:
11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300
 1986 Greyhound Lines, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

R
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys,
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm.
Call687-FOOD
5:00 p.m. to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
<N
NPIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
M 810 IVY STREET682-3333
rnrr r\~v ~ Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am 
We sell pizza by the slice
<NN
<NN
a
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
LARGE $ 
PIZZAiFREE
Liter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
NN
>
NN
>
NN
t*.
VVWhose Life is it Anyway?"
Come listen to:Sheri ODell
Vice-Pres-Action.NOW 
Saturday.,February 8th 
2:00 DH 2210
America prides itself on its concern for theindividual's basic human rights .__________We have the freedom to choose different religious, political or philosophical stances.Yet when it comes to the issue of Abortion, some sav that women should have no choice. This is not to say that abortion is right for everyone, merely that the individual have the final say about her body, and about her life.
The right to reproductive freedomis not as secure as you think.
We will also discuss the plans to attend the national March for Women's Lives in Washington D.C. protestingrecent Anti-choice efforts._______________________If you would like to come but can't attend the meeting, mail your name, address to: SFC, Skibo 103.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The Price of 
Innovation
Computers may come and computers may go, but a wellestablished reputation will benefit Carnegie Mellon for years, 
and ultimately supercede any specific technological 
developments.
The public introduction of Andrew software and the IBMRT PC on January 21 sparked considerable excitement and plenty 
of discussion. It was also met with a certain amount of skep
ticism. Carnegie Mlions effort to create a first-of-its-kind, 
campus-wide network has its problems. Wiring the Hill dorms 
over the semester break, for instance, resulted in serious inconve
nience to some residents of those dorms. And the new hardware 
and software are also not without flaws.
One of the more pervasive questions pertaining to hardware 
is whether or not the new workstations will be affordable. The 
IBM workstations which were introduced in January are cur
rently priced between $8,000 and $12,500, a price which is pro
hibitively high for most students. In the near future, within 1-2 
months, there should be between two and four different brands 
of workstations on campus with capabilites similar to the IBMRT PC. The increased competition should drive the price of each 
workstation down to about $5,000, but even this is a fairly high 
price tag. Advanced workstations like the IBM or the Sun are 
not the only means of using Andrew. Andrew will be available 
for any computer which can run UNIX. But adding a board 
to less advanced computers which can run UNIX is a 
$500-$l,000 under taking
With figures like this, can students realistically expect to be 
able to take advantatge of the capabilities of the newtwork? 
Financing workstations for students will have to become a ma
jor concern for the University. Paying for an education here is 
already a major burden for most people, and taking on more 
bills could be unbearable for many. Even if Carnegie Mellon 
does not insist that its students buy a workstation, it seems like
ly that those who cannot afford one will be placed at a disad
vantage because their access to files and information will be 
slower or less comprehensive than others who own their own 
workstations. Only if good financing is available will the goal 
of a widespread network which encompasses the entire campus 
be attainable.
In addition to the hardware question, the Andrew software 
is not finalized either. Andrew is currently in its second genera
tion, and has been distributed to approximately 100 different 
schools and individuals in this form. The final version of An
drew, however, will not be ready for another 6-8 months. And 
certainly, even as we implement the software in a unified net
work here, other institutions will be changing and improving 
upon it in a smaller setting.
Obviously there are still some stumbling blocks in the develop
ment of this system. But there are always problems associated 
with innovation. After all, innovation is the only word to describe 
what is taking place at Carnegie Mellon. We will have a vast 
shared network which will be the largest anywhere in education 
or business. Sure, there are other schools which have already 
wired their campuses, like Dartmouth, but the existing networks 
are nowhere near as sophisticated as what we will enjoy here. 
Our system will be thousands, perhaps, millions of times faster 
than the systems at other schools.
We will also have a network which can support almost any 
type of computer. Those affiliated with Carnegie Mellon will 
also have the opportunity to buy advanced workstations at a price 
below the normal selling price. This project is particularly ad
vantageous for the school because so far an IBM grant has pro
vided complete funding.
Maybe the workstations wont be as fast as originally hoped. 
Maybe the workstations wont be as cheap as planned. Maybe 
other schools will improve on Andrew and end up with better 
software than what we begin with. But this is the price we pay 
to be leaders. What we are establishing will set any important 
precedent in commercial and industrial, as well as educational 
contexts. The state of the art in technology is in constant evolu
tion. While we will constantly have to modify the system, 
developing and using Andrew and the high-speed, advanced 
workstations further establishes Carnegie Mellon as a prominent 
force in higher education, which promotes innovation and 
inventiveness.
Letters
Rambo Showing inappropriate for MS drive
Editor:
This past Sunday, the Student 
Dormitory Council showed Ram
bo: First Blood Part II in an ef
fort to raise funds for Multiple 
Sclerosis. After contributing one 
dollar to a very worthy cause, 
viewers were treated to an evening 
in which our all-American hero, 
Sylvester Stallone, blew up those 
Commies.
SDC didnt consider ethics 
when it chose to show that film, 
it considered dollars. It recogniz
ed the need for quickly raising a 
lot of money and decided to show 
a movie which had popular ap
peal. SDC was justified in show
ing Rambo because it knew that 
the movie fared well at the box of
fice and would therefore bring in 
the money at CMU. Also, show
ing Rambo to benefit MS did not 
cause the conflict to people that, 
say, Debbie Does Dallas or The 
Texas Chainsaw Massacre would 
have.
Stallones popularity stems from 
his stereotyping in movies a cer
tain person or group of people as 
evil and monsterlike and then pro
ceeding to blow him or them 
away. Those who support these 
contributions to society with their 
money indicate they have little 
regard for the atrocity of his 
simplifications as well as the 
potential damage they can inflict 
upon malleable minds. One 
fifteen-year-old, after leaving the 
show with apparently increased 
hormone activity, was quoted as 
saying it makes me want to go out 
and kill a Commie.
In these times, cultural pre
judices are no longer a shame  
they are inexcusable. We simply 
have too many avalable resources 
with which we can increase our 
awareness. The expense involved 
in seeking this enlightenment 
through a trip to a foreign land
or an international phone call 
may be prohibitive (though less 
prohibitive than one might im
agine). However, pen pals, 
newspapers, magazines and books 
all offer cheaper ways to achieve 
the same kind of understanding 
and respect for our worldwide 
neighbors. With pen pals, the 
benefits are twofold. One can get 
a pen pal by sending one dollar 
and a self-addressed stamped 
envelope to: League of
Friends/P.O. Box 509/Mt. Ver
non, OH 43050.
As far as SDCs showing of 
Rambo is concerned: it saddens 
me to think that viewers who did 
something as wonderful as con
tributing to MS were rewarded  
with such a psychologically maim
ing experience. One has a right to 
demand a more satisfying reward. 
He/she may receive it by reading 
about what MS is and then mak
ing a contribution, confident that
he/she has done something to 
help.
Contributions are being taken 
by various student groups on cam
pus. Checks or cash may also be 
sent by campus mail to CMU 
Students Against MS/1065 
Morewood Ave./Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Better yet, see the article 
in this issue for information on 
how to get involved in CMUs 
campus-wide effort to beat MS.
The effect of supporting a good 
cause like the MS Society need not 
be lessened by supporting a harm
ful one like Stallones. Instead, we 
can combat both physical disease 
and cultural ignorance and pave 
the way to a tomorrow of increas
ed health and understan
ding.
Mohan Embar 
Electical and Computer 
Engineering 88
Comics become funny
Editor:
Although the subject of my opi
nion may seem trivial, I feel that 
I represent a large number of 
students in my thoughts.
Reading the comics in the past, 
in The Tartan, I have found 
myself wondering, Do the car
toonists really think thats funny? 
L don't. But recently I have read 
the comics and laughed. Yes, 1 
said laughed. The comics (and 
some of the articles as well) in the 
past have represented my opinion 
of a much too large part of CMUs 
student body: intellectual, but 
boring. These past TOP FLOOR 
comics I have found to be a breath 
of fresh air. In reading them, I 
cant imagine why the paper 
hasnt loosened up. I dont mean
to offend anyone who may be 
following rules or orders, but I m 
considering subscribing to 
another schools paper because 
they print material that is funnyI Teel that the loosening of the 
morals of The Tartan would 
result in a more personal paper 
relating much more closely to the 
students. Is our school so profes
sional and intellectual that our 
comics and articles always have to 
be educational and informative.' 
If so, Ill transfer to some vo-tech 
school closer to home where I can 
have fun and learn at the same 
time.
Brian Duncan 
Freshma1

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 25
Voice It! Board of Trustees to meet
by Karen Lee
Carnegie Mellon Board of Trustees? Who? 
What? When? Why? Well folks, the Board 
is made up of individuals from all over the 
nation. Most are current or retired ex
ecutives of major companies and some are 
If also alumni. They manage and 
i control the business, property 
i| and affairs of Carnegie Mellon. 
The Board of Trustees consists 
of 8 subcommittees (listed below) which are 
comprised of 10-15 Trustees, 2 faculty, and
2-3 students. These 8 subcommittees meet 
in the morning. The Board meeting, which 
is attended by the senior administrative of
ficials of the university and the Trustees, is 
in the afternoon. As Student Government 
President, and the only student represen
tative to the Board, I am given 5 minutes 
to discuss student issues.
As mentioned in the Tartan last semester, 
at the last Board of Trustees meeting I focus
ed solely on the importance of the new stu
dent center and the fact that it needed to
continue to be the #1 priority in the long 
range renovation plans which Carnegie 
Mellon has. As a result, I have learned that 
the groundbreaking will be in 1-1/2 years. 
At least, I got a date!!
The student members of the 8 subcom
mittees are nominated through Student 
Senate, usually at the beginning of each 
school year. At which point, if they pass cer
tain qualifications such as QPA, they 
become official representatives to the Boards 
subcommittees, This years student members 
are listed below. These students are impor
tant to YOU because they can VOICE 
YOUR OPINIONS of issues in each of the 
committee meetings. Their opinions are 
taken SERIOUSLY! Believe me, I have been 
on the Student Affairs committee and as 
President of Student Government I have 
talked to a lot of the Trustees who do care. 
It is no snow job either!
Now the point of this article, was not to 
waste valuable space but to get one point 
across: IF YOU HAVE A CONCERN,
Letters continuer!
Monuments for grads
Editor:
With the hassles and pressure so 
characteristic of Carnegie Mellon, it is often 
easy to become self oriented to ignore 
places and people in an attempt to succeed 
here. And often, when people do take notice 
of events, fixtures, and decisions made here, 
their reaction is to criticize to draw atten
tion to negative aspects. I know. Im one of 
those people.
Looking aroung this campus, it seems that 
there were a lot of people like that who at
tended here through the years. I know of on
ly one tribute to people a tree and plaque 
dedicated to all black students who attend
ed here. Other than that and scattered class 
gifts, the only structures for lasting tribute 
are buildings named after former presidents 
or single gift-givers. I guess no one ever 
thought about a tribute to all who graduated 
from CMU and went on to lead publically 
or privately great lives. Maybe it^ time we
I did.
There have been many graduates of CMU 
who should be sources of pride for all of us: 
cast members of Hill Street Blues for exam
ple. We can brag about them to our friends 
from home. But there are far more people 
I who have gone to be heroes  heroes to their 
I families, to a community, a profession or the 
I entire countrypeople whom we should 
I recognize and memorialize.
It was the death this week of Judith Resnik 
I that made me realize this. I enjoyed telling 
people back home that the second woman
Concerts
Editor:
While the Editorial of last week, Student 
\Animosity Prevents Activities, presents a 
[valid hope for more cooperation between the 
jtwo major Universities in Oakland, it shows 
also that The Tartan does not always check 
n its facts.
I am referring to the comments about the 
lack of cosponsored concerts. In fact, each 
jyear, the Pitt Program Council and ABf oncerts present a free concert on Flagstaff 
Plili which this year incidentally, set an atJtendance record there and which was given
I3 front page story in The Pitt News, but no 
Mention in The Tartan. Additionally, last 
wear brought the Universities together in the 
(Production of a concert by the Pointer 
isters.
I am not saying that we dont need more 
operation, but I would like to point out 
hat such cooperation has existed in the past.
Adam Hani^ 
Chairman, ABConcerts
in space was a graduate of Carnegie Mellon.
I will not enjoy telling them that she was also 
the first woman astronaut to die during a 
mission. There will be memorial services and 
speaches dedicated to her memory, but 
shouldnt there be something more not on
ly for Judith Resnik but for all heroes, liv
ing and dead, public and private, who were 
here before us? Dont we owe them some sort 
of lasting recognition? '
I ask the administration, the student 
senate, the IFC, and especially the Class of 
86 to consider erecting a monument on 
campus dedicated to those people. The idea 
for a monument is the brain child of Ty Cor
bett, a junior in Computer Science. If it is 
not too late to make this our class gift, I feel 
that it should be seriously considered. There 
are enough benches for students here to rest 
on. The clock is here to remind us that were 
late for class. Lets leave something behind 
that will help students for years to come 
acknowledge the contributions made by 
their predecessors. Lets leave behind 
something for everyone.
Michael Hoff, 86
Tech Field
After taking a flying header while cross
ing the icy football field today, I decided to 
air my complaint before someone has a real
ly bad fall.
Now, I realize that CMUs physical plant 
is very busy spreading horse droppings 
around campus, but I bet they could spare 
a few hours and perhaps lay a cement path 
across the width of the field.
W7hen it rains, and that's a good percen
tage of the time, the current path turns in
to a veritable mud puddle. I for one would 
rather do my mud wrestling in the privacy 
of my own backyard.
Yes, you may ask me to walk around the 
track or take an alternate route, but that 
won't solve the problem for the hundreds of 
students who traverse the field daily. And 
now that the weather has turned cold, the 
path has frozen into a dangerous patch of 
ice.
Aside from the inherent risk in crossing 
the field I've overheard a few prunellas" 
complaining that their shoes were absolute
ly ruined. I don't care about my shoes, but 
I'm tired of sliding across the field.
Christy Casamassima 
Junior
Professional Writing
VOICE IT! If you are concerned about issues 
related to one the Boards subcommittees 
(listed below) PLEASE speak to one of the 
student members of the subcommittee. If its 
an issue that I should speak about to the 
WHOLE Board, in particular an issue for 
the upcoming meeting, PLEASE TALK TO 
ME! I can be reached at x4594 or at the 
Senate office on Tuesday 6:00-7:00 and Fri
day 11:30-1:30.
The next Board of Trustees meeting is 
next Monday, February 10th. Please talk to 
me or to the student representatives. YOU 
CAN VOICE YOUR OPINIONS IF YOU 
TRY TO!!! I CHALLENGE YOU to do 
something about your concerns! TALK TO 
ME!!
Student Representatives to the Trustee 
Committees:
Student Affairs:
Jon Marom 
Diane Ceonzo 
Peter Cohen
Building & Grounds:
Leslie Frank 
Ed Tecot 
Kevin Burns
Finance:
Tamal Mukherjee 
Michelle Hessman 
John Sargent
Alumni:
Colleen Harrison 
Tony Desmond 
Educational Affairs: 
Sue Webb 
Cindy Taylor 
Eric Rocher 
Development: 
Steve Weller 
Brett Whysel
Research:
Renee Richardson 
Robert Sobek
Enrollment & Planning: 
Arnold Blinn 
Kathy Murtaugh
Karen Lee is President of Student 
Government and a Senior IM Major
Inquiring Minds Really Dont 
Give a Damn
..o'
by The Inquiring Staff
At Inquiring Minds, we always look for 
ways of improving CMU and its academics. 
One thing that came to our attention was 
the core curriculum now being put into 
place at the various colleges within the 
university. We have one sugges
tion on how to improve the core. 
It seems to us that a language 
and accents course should be re
quired for all incoming freshman. Topics to 
be covered would include the Taiwanese, In
dian, Japanese, French, and Western Pa. ac
cents. The goal would be of course to enable 
students to understand their TAs and pro
fessors over their four years at CMU. If you 
can understand any of your TAs, please drop 
us a line at Inquiring Minds, 1 Tartan 
Center, 5020 Forbes Ave. (well, you know the 
rest). As a public service, we are conducting 
research into this vital matter, in any case, 
inquiring minds surely wont give a damn.
Another thing to think about while on 
the subject of academics are the books we 
all have to buy every semester. A lot of peo
ple paid for those books this semester by 
check at the CMU Bookstore. When you pay 
by check at most places they ask to see some 
sort of ID, like a drivers license and/or ma
jor credit card. Here at CMU we do things 
a little differently (of course). The only ID 
you need is your student ID, but on the 
check you have to write your campus address 
and ID number. Why? The reason is sim
ple, if the check bounces, they need your ID 
number so they know whose grades to
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
withdraw.. .etc., and the box number is just 
so they can send you another bill. Definite
ly nothing an inquiring mind would waste 
time giving a damn over.
A final thought, there is a big uproar on 
campus currently over our acceptance of Air 
Force funds to build the Software Engineer
ing Institute. Well, we happen to wonder 
why there wasnt an uproar when corpora
tions gave money in the past to help erect 
buildings on campus like "Warner Hall 
(Eastman Kodak), and Scaife Hall (FritoLay). A hungry, photographic mind couldnt 
give a damn.
This weeks thought. Gregg Halls pipes, 
why?
The authors have never gone over Niagara 
Falls in a barrel, and dont want to. Inquir
ing minds dont give a damn.
The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine, 
Randy Wilson, and Chris Williams
Editor-in-Chief ...........Lisa D. McAnany
Managing Editor .............Olve Peersen
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor .........................Vijay Reddy
Entertainment Editor .... Bruce Kasrel 
Features Editor.. .Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor.........................Jill Dorson
Photography Editor.............Jack Poller
Art Editor ..........................Mike McHugh
Dossier Editor ...............Michele Keane
Ad Manager .......................Celeste Clark
Production Manager . .Albrecht Powell 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter 
Editorial Asst..................Albrecht Powell
Contributing Editors: Karen Gray, Mohan 
Embar, Neil Greenblum.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 268-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 268-2111. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, CarnegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

waHHn tutoring program 
ach wk
Mowwo< 9wdnfc I tow, WM1
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH-126APie 1, N, HI
PhysicsPH -1266ChemistryPH-225BEngSsh asaBH - 1356
second language
EconomicsPH - 2268Intro to ComputingWEH-5415Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 2356
Spring Carnival
BOOTH
DATEROOMTIME
FEB 4117pm
FEB 18128pm
MAR 4117pm
MAR 18117pm
APR 1117pm
APR 8457pm
Chinese Student Organization
invites you to the
Chinese New Year
on SATURDAY February 8, 1986 8pm-1 am, Wherrett Room
- Egg Rolls and dumplings served during the first hour
- Great music and drinks
- FREE Admission
And on Friday morning the 7th, by the fence, come see
THE CHINESE LION DANCE 
EVERYONE WELCOME
funded by Activities Fee
 i &   * 'i*

---------------------------------------------------

Acme,Announcements
City Theater Company. NUTS by Tom Topor 
is presented through February 16. For ticket information, call 624-4101.Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens 
Theatre. The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A 
heroic story of young Roland, nephew of Charlemagne, who seeks to recover the Emperors famous sword Durandal from evil Falerine. Set 
against the background of the Middle Ages, this 
play brings the period and its people to life in a stirring adventure at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Satur
days, and 2:30 pm, Sundays through March 29. Canadian Artwork on Exhibit at PPG Place. Canada Collects* is an exhibition displaying contemporary sculptures from the vast collection of 
the Canada Council Art Bank. The sculptures 
can be viewed in the Wintergarden at PPG Place through February 5, 9 am to 9 pm daily. Admis
sion is free and is sponsored by PPG Place, the Public Art Trust and the government of Canada. Marcus Gordon Gallery. Group exhibition of new works by Gallery artists, highlighting six new etchings by Judy Barie. Other artists in the ex
hibition include Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin and Carolyn Brady. 
The Gallery is on 416 Craig Street. The exhibiion runs through March 22. Gallery hours are11 am to 5:30 pm, Monday through Saturday:11 am to 8 pm, Thursday.
Robert Arneson: Points of View. Robert Arneson presents his ceramic sculptures, drawngs and prints from February 9 through March
16 at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts Comnons Room Gallery. Preview is February 8, 6 pmo 9 pm Exhibition catalogue is available.
Mark Burns: A Decade in Pennsylvania, 1975-1985. Mark Bums presents his ceramics and mixed media from February 8 through March 
23 at the Society for Art in Crafts, 719 Allegheny River Boulevard. Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Saturday; and 1 pm to 5 pm, Sunday. Preview is February 8, 6 pm to 8 pm
Art by Art Activists. Jerri Allyn, Nancy 
Buchanan, Joselito Femadez, Gene Gort, Donald Harvey and Jerry Kearns present their work from February 8 through March 1 at Gallery G (lower gallery), 211 Ninth Street. Gallery hours are 11 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday; 11 am to2 pm, Saturday. Preview is February 8, 6 pm to 9 pm
Political Statements in Clay. Dale Dapkins, 
James Dugas, and Don Fisher, Peter Gourfain, Richards Lipscher, Kirk Mangus, and Jeff Schlanger present their work at the Clay Place, 5600 Walnut Street. Gallery hours 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Saturday; 7 pm to 9 pm, Wednesday. Preview is on February 8, 6 pm to9 pm
Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art Tours.
Highlight Tours, 15-minute introductory talks on a different work each week through February 28,2 pm, Tuesday through Sunday. Free with museum admission.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families 
and Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 1:30 pm to 3 pm Advance registration. Call 622-3214.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are
offered from Basic Photography to Scenic Photography. Advance registration. Fees vary. Carnegie Institute. Natural World Photographic Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits Gallery) continues through March 16.Velar Gallery. Memory 1986. 10 photographers, members of the Manchester Craftsmens Guild, exhibit their work through February 29. The Velar Gallery is in the lobby of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration and is open to the public 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.Countries in Crisis. Nancy Chunn exhibits her 
paintings from February 8 through 23 at the Hewlett Gallery, first floor of the College of Fine Arts. Gallery hours are 11 am to 4 pm, Tuesday through Friday; noon to 4 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. Preview is February 8, 6 pm to 9 pmCarnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. Hilla 
and Bernd Becher: American Industrial Buildings is shown through March 9. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The Gallery is at 407 South Craig Street.
Carnegie~Mellon University Art Gallery. TheArt Faculty Exhibit is shown through March 9. 
Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday.Community Class Division Valentine Gift Certificates. The Community Class Division of Point 
Park College offers special Valentine gift certificates through February 14. The gift certificates are ideal for those interested in non
credit classes in dance, acting, music or photography. The Division is presently offering its Mid-Winter Term 1986. Basic Photography, Group Piano for Children, Group Voice for Adults, Mime and Musical Theatre are included. For more information about the programs 
and gift certificates, call 392-3456.
Second Burroughs Design Competition. Burroughs Corporation has announced the Second Burroughs Design Competition for outstanding examples of industrial design of products that incorporate computer capability and technology in 
the human/machine interface. The competition is open to upper level industrial design students and recent graduates in North America. First prize is a cash award of $10,000 to the designer. The educational sponsor of the first prize recipient receives a Burroughs B 25 business com
puter with printer. Second prize is $5,000 to the designer and third prize is $1,000. All entries must be received by March 31. Award winners 
will be notified by telegram after April 15. Fur
ther information on the 1986 Burroughs Design Competition can be obtained from: Competition Coordinator, Corporate Industrial Design, Burroughs Corporation, 41100 Plymouth Road, 
Plymouth, MI 48170. Telephone: 313-451-4468. 
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo Room 39, Monday through Saturday.
Miscellaneous
FREE! Unused brown glass beer bottles by the case, 12-0z and quart sizes. Inquire at the Chemistry Office, Doherty Hall 2114, X2319.
Ilassifieds
or Sale: 76 Saab GL new tires, brakes, insp. 2000 or best offer. 241-5806.
)istinctive Wedding Invitations, Anlouncements, Stationery for all occasions. rabulous selection, discount prices. J.R. Staionery shown by appointment. 243-0380. 
regnancy ResearchPlanning on becoming regnant soon? Take advantage of FREE regnancy testing and fertility awareness proram. For details, call 647-5202. University of ittsburgh School of Public Health.
budget travel, work, study! Send check ($12/yr) to: Y.T.N, P.O. Box 3887, New Haven, Ct 06525. 
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed envelope: Success, P.O. Box 470CEG, Woodstock, IL 60098.
Highway, Traffic & Street Signs. Official. Send $1 for catalogue. De-sign store, P.O. Box 2781, Palm Beach, FL 33480
Counselers, over 19 who like to have fun and make fun at unique overnight boys summer camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of the following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, Arts and Crafts, Rockclimbing, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, Science, Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, Photography, Pioneering, or General Athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 19444. 
Study Medical Venipuncture with clinical and classroom training conducted by Phlebotomy Training Center at CMU campus. Short inexpensive course. Call 521-7334.
Pittsburgh Guitars We buy, sell & trade used and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4733. 
Looking for female to share lovely apartment. Wall to wall carpeting, laundry facilities, off street parking, walking distance from school, furnish
ed. Rent $167.50 per month plus utilities. Call 682-2869.
Shadyside Apartment Clean one bedroom, new appliances, microwave oven. One block from Walnut St. 344-3637.
Parties, Parties, Parties We have everything for your party in our 10,000 square foot Party Supermarket. Papermart, Baum Blvd at Morewood St. 681-8900.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival needs crew to set up, maintain, and take down the festival. 35 hours/week, May 10 to July 10, $4.00/hour. Involves putting up stages, pavilions, scaffolding; hanging or installing artwork. Call Paul Sullivan MondayFriday 261-7040.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanFebruary 4, 1986
Events4JL :
Tuesday
Movies
Faculty and Staff Phonathon. If you are interested in calling, winning prizes and having a good time, contact the Annual Giving Office at x2120.
Days of Heaven, starring Richard Gere, Brooke Adams and Sam Shepard. A beautifully 
filmed story set in the fields of the Midwest. Exceptional cinematography, music and direction. Oscar for Best Cinematography. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures 
Department of Chemical Engineering Seminar. 
Dr. Dale Kairnes, Westinghouse R & D, Pittsburgh, speaks on 'Modeling Fluidized Bed Pro
cesses* at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
Department of Architecture Lecture. Richard Rush discusses Guts and Bolts: An Introduction to Building Systems Integration* at 8 pm in WEH 
7500.
Clubs
Students Against Apartheid. Students against Apartheid hold a meeting to prepare for a 
presentation on divestment to the Board of Trustees this month from 6 pm to 7 pm in Skibo 
112.
Music
Faculty Recital. Linda Ellison, piano, plays at 
8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, College of Fine Arts.
Campus Events
Faculty and Staff Phonathon. If you are interested in calling, winning prizes and having a 
good time, contact the Annual Giving Office at x2120.
5
Wednesday
Movies
La Strada, starring Anthony Quinn and 
Giuletta Massina. A brutish man takes on a slowwitted waif in this great film classic. Oscar for 
Best Foreign Film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Home game against 
Washington and Jefferson College at 6 pm
Mens Basketball. Home game against Washington and Jefferson College at 8 pm
Lectures
Department of Mechanical Engineering Guest 
Lecture Series. Professor Ali Seirig, University of Wisconsin, speaks on Design Methods and Applications* at 3:15 pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium.
Department of Architecture Seminar Series.Richard Rush speaks on Building Systems of In
tegration' at noon in the CFA 206.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 
pm in Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modem Languages Program sponsors a French Language Table every Wednesday at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
A Phi O, 8:30 in the Adamson Wing, Baker 
Hall.
Seminars
Cover Letter Writing. A traditional mass mail
ing of letters typically generates only a ^response. 
Learn how to increase your results from 11:30 
am to 12.30 pm in Skibo room 45.
Thursday
6
Movies
Death in Venice, starring Dirk Bogarde, 
Mark Burns and Marisa Berenson. Adaptation 
of the Thomas Mann novella about a mans desperate search for beauty. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm Admission $2.95.
Emperor Jones, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm, and 11 pm Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science Seminar. Ms. Shi-Ling Chang speaks on The Interaction of High Temperature 
Erosion and Oxidation of Selected Metals and Alloys at 3:30 pm in 823 Benedum Hall, University of Pittsburgh.
Art
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities for adults and children from 10 am to 
11:30 am every Thursday. Advance registration. For more information call 622-3241.
Music
University of Pittsburgh Department of Music Concert. A concert of contemporary music is perform by the Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble at 
8:30 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, 
University of Pittsburgh. This program includes 
works by Gibbs, Knopoff, Morris, Ohia and Vali, all past and present graduate students and faculty 
at the University of Pittsburgh. The program is co-sponsored by the Music Performance Trust Fund of Musicians Local 60-471 and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Department of Music.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Pro
gram sponsors a German Language table at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in 
rock climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, 
come to a meeting at 6:30 pm. in Skibo Room 
12. Trip>s every weekend. Beginners are welcome.
7
Friday
Movies
Jagged Edge, starring Jeff Bridges and 
Glenn Close. Drama about a female lawyer who defends a man accused of killing his wife. As the 
trial proceeds, she falls in love with the defen
dant. Scary climax. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm, and 11:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Politics in Film: The Sorrow and the Pity,
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute at 8 pm in the Museum of Art Theater. Funded in part by grants from the National Endowment for the 
Arts, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Coun
cil on the Arts, and the Howard Heinz Endow
ment.
Sexual Politics: Margaret Mead Film Festival, A Man, When He is a Man and Small Happiness: Women of a Chinese Village are screened at 8 
pm and 10 pm at Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 
Oakland Avenue, Admission is $3.
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly, sponsored 
by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 9 pm, and mid
night. Admission $1.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo Room 12.
8
Saturday
Movies
Agnes of God, starring Jane Fonda, Meg Tilly and Anne Bancroft. Tense drama about a 
psychiatrist who is appointed by the court to investigate a teenage nun who apparently killed her 
own newborn baby. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm, and 11:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Sexual Politics: Margaret Mead Film Festival,A Man, When He is a Man and Small Happiness: Women of a Chinese Village are screened at 8 
pm and 10 pm at Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland Avenue. Admission is $3.
Kentucky Fried Movie, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. Admission $1.
Sports
Swimming. Away game against Grove City College at 2 pm
Mens Basketball. Home game against Hiram College at 2 pm
Women's Basketball. Away game against Hiram College at 7 pm
Art
Vietnam Woodcuts Display. Vietnam Woodcuts by Bruce Carter, professor of art, are displayed 
by the 911 Tactical Airlift Group of Greater Pittsburgh from 5 pm to 9 pm in the Consolidated 
Open Mess Hall at the Air Force Reserve, Greater Pittsburgh International Airport.
Lectures
"March on Washington. Sherri ODell, vice president of NOW, speaks about the March to Washington to Save Womens Lives at 2 pm in 
DH 2210. ODell focuses on how to organize and 
campaign for an effective March 9th rally at the 
nations capitol in order to defend reproductive rights in the United States. This speech is spon
sored by Students for Choice.
Workshops
Hearts and Lace and Love: A Workshop for Children. The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
hosts a workshop for children given by Barbara 
Wettergreen from 1 p.m to 3 pm in Room 9 of 
the Scaife Buiding. This family workshop focuses on the making of Valentines for those very special 
people in your life. Valentine cards, banners and 
soft sculptures will be created. All materials are 
included as are Love-ly refreshments. Children 
ages 6 and up are invited with or without parents. The cost is $9 for members and $11 for non
members. For more information, call the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts Gallery at 361-0873.
Resume Workshop. Teaching Assistants from 
the Computing Skills Workshop and staff of the 
Career Services and Placement Office are 
available to help students prepare resumes using the Apple Macintosh and LaserWriter from 1 pm 
to 4 pm in the Computing Skills Workshop, Hunt Library. All students are welcome.
9
Sunday
Movies
early 1960s. This film is shown in its original version with English subtitles. Admission is free. 
Adamson Wing at 3 pm This film series is spon
sored by the Program in European Studies, Department of History.
Flashdance, sponsored by Rugby Club in DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight. Admission $1.
Sports
Fencing. Intercollegiate tournament at 10 am ^ 
Art
Department of Art Visiting Artist Series. Nancy Chunn, painter, speaks about her work at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing.
Political Art 36. Lynne Gumpert, senior 
curator, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 
Pittsburgh Center of the Arts Galleries, presents a slide lecture on Art in Politics Now* at 1 pm 
at The Clay Place, Gallery G, Hewlett Gallery.
Second Sunday Series. The Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts presents the Anna Perlow Music 
School Faculty in a program entitled Accenting the 18th Century* at 2:30 pm in the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts Galleries. Free to members. Suggested donation from non-members, $3.
Monday
Movies
To Be or Not To Be, starring Jack Ben
ny, Carole Lombard, Robert Stack and Sig Ruman. Fabulous comedy with Benny and Lom
bard in top form about a troupe of actors in Nazioccupied Poland. Lombards last and one of Bennys best. Better than the Mel Brooks re-make. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm 
Admission $2.95.
Black History Month Film Series: Tribute to Our Youth, The films of Carl Clay are featured with a screening of Radio and The Follower at 
1 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
Europe in Film Series: Peppermint Soda, star
ring Diane Kurys. Delightful portrait of two 
French teenage girls growing up in France of the
10 Pink Floyd: The Wall, starring^ 
Bob Geldof, Christine Hargreaves, James 
Laurenson and Bob Hoskins. A film version of a Pink Floyd rock album about the mental breakdown of a rock star. Some striking visuals. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm 
Admission $2.95.
Art History Film Series: The Romantic 
Mystics, Romanticism, Henry Fuseli and William Blake are shown at 7:30 pm at the King Estate.
SportsMens Basketball. Away game against Marietta 
College at 8 pm.
Clubs
Using the Career Services Library for ... Your Job Search. Get inside tips on identifying and 
researching leads at the Warner Hall Library and others from 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm in the Career 
Services and Placement Library, WH 19.
Macintosh Users Group (CMU-MUG). TheMacintosh Users Group (CMU-MUG) holds meetings every second Monday of the month at 
6:30 pm in DH-A317.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan send it in care o/Leslie Gordon/ACME, Public Relations, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at 5017 Forbes 
Ave. F.vents may be sent through computer mail 
to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will be ac* 
cepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The T artan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication. *
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week's issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.

---------------------------------------------------

E, BABY.
Tuesday
Myth Conceptions 
w/ Stainless Steel Rat
Hardcore, Classical, 
Comedy, Psych
Wednesday
A Tribute to Entropy 
w/ Corwin
Rock, Experimental, 
Jazz, Grateful Dead, 
Blues
Thursday
Certified Mice Show 
w/ Stuch-Up W.A.S.P.
Odd and Obscure 
Music
Friday
Late Night 
w/ Sarah and Sam
Coherent Bands
Saturday
Dereks Club 
w/ Mr. Glich
New Age, Electronic, 
Experimental, Musak
rent
To Be AnnouncedTo Be AnnouncedTo Be AnnouncedTo Be AnnouncedTo Be Announced
ce,
Counter Intelligence 
w/ Natasha
Various New, 
Unusual Music
Music to Fend Off 
Lizards
w/ Greg & Rob 
Calm and Quiet
To Be AnnouncedTo Be AnnouncedHotlicks 
w/ Ax Manic
Guitar: Metal, Rock, 
Blues, Fusion, Jazz
tock,
Jazz
Fallout Shelter 
Snack Bar 
wI Dan
New Music, Dance, 
Psych
Sacco: First Bass, 
Part 27
Jazz
The Wrong Station 
w/ Spectre 
Psych, New Wave, 
Jazz, Reggae,
60s Rock
Kiltie Surprise! 
w/ Flash
Wake Up Music, 
Comedy
Bendy But Firm 
w/ Don
Rock, Fusion, Jazz
ish
Mad Mixin 
w/ Inspector
Dance, Funk, Rap
SpritleComet Mania! 
w/ Melodius Thunk
Jazz
Research 
w/ Scott Hawkins
Reggae, Funk, 
Mutant
Jazz: Second 
City Style: 
w/ Lisa Byrd Smith
Jazz: All Forms
Show
Janee
Green Eggs 
and Spam 
w/ Sam I Am
Obscure
Burning Ambitions 
wI Stormin Norman
Gothic, Punk, Rock, 
Post-Punk, Factory
Bbeer in Your Ear 
w/ Bill
Bubbles on the 
Surface of Silence
Wonderbread Culture 
w/ Liwayway 
Reggae, Funk, Mutant
Sportsline 
Weekly Sports Call-In Show
Modern Angst 
w/ Norbert 
Reggae, Gothic, Modern
The Ooh La La 
A Go Go
w/ Phaedra & Chloe 
French Riviera, 
Sambas, Bubble Gum
Feedback
Weekly Public Affairs 
Call-In Talk Show
Jason and Karen 
Rock, Exp, Jazz, 
Reggae, Funk, C & W
New York Hip
Hop Show
w/ LL Cool J
Jazz, Hip Hop, Street, Funk
Neurotica w/ Jeff Stafford 
Neurotic Dance Music, 
High Energy Rock
Sad Facts w/ Radio Fred 
Ock, Unk
The Ravens Wig-Out 
Mid 60s Punk, R & B, 
Grunge
The Final Frontier 
wI Mike Usually 
Newest Modern Music
rdUnsightly and Serene 
w/Clare
Neuroprogressive
June
Reggae and 
African Music
Phonebooth w/Chuck Farley 
Weekly Unusual Call-In 
Talk Show
Last Penance w/Redhot Rosa 
New, Rock
Slam Train 
w/ J.P and Otto
Hardcore
Spermblast
w/ Wonder Llama &
Lenny
Hardcore, Noise, 
Industrial
621-WRCT
SPRING 1986 SCHEDULE
Funded By Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Te C\A MTucATtor-J ASF-S
N ATL TI (v>es.T\a^s 
wy fef<,DvJf^- iai^o^v ....
W:U., If hSfC. B1^ NNOP^wvti 
f^NQ "V'TTJer ... Yew fMOW ) TO
ip vou'pe OPAy fo>\ ^eaievry
A'"" Cue-ApV^C^ y
w^at frPMy evicts c/f= 
Gem no, Quef^N^te iah^n) 
TUty F'No o\/r tz w^s voted 
11IVIOST Gos^fv'' \r-J HlOH 
gb........... HJettTy
figov/r Ti%9>vie 
AS l\A(Wt A0t
Fop Poyiwo,
f^OFtrSflONjAl. 
\ SK^TNtL.
by Mike McHugh & CoNollem Eigenrac
OWE" DWV OtTMeCUT
WHAT A
GaSTC.
Poindexter by Don Beyer
The Top Floorby M
WE WANT MORE COMIC STRIPS!!!!
Can you draw? Are you funny? If you can do either 
one of these things, you may have what it takes 
to do a comic strip for the Tartan. We are looking 
to greatly increase the number of student produc
ed strips in our funnies section. If you are interested 
in writing and/or drawing a strip, come to the Tar
tan Art Staff meeting Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the 
Tartan main offices.
Comics In The News
Toto, I dontat CMU anymore.'

---------------------------------------------------

February 4, 1986The TartanPage 31
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
IF you SAY 'SODA' 
IFy ouSA Y'oAO D500/ 
P'NCH YuU/
'50DA/
The Digressional by Seth EliotChoice & Mike McHugh Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw
OfViCfc
Since when does your mother write in crayon! 
THIS IS A HUMAN SUB ftNP YOU'RBtmm t^e Tar  cutter john I as spies
BLOOM COUNTYStudent Dormitory Councilby Berke Breathed
ms is M amwe'' InTh cow mrr ?..WORLP WAR m ? WBt/T vout&m see*"ROCKY E"? ARMCA CANT Be P&EmP,..yw-voumefiptt*
MKNrr/W IMPS me 
SSm VMMum owe .'
W2 50 60 ON/
vJk SHOOT YER AU5SliS/\ i poutte pm tnS 
MOT'SHUT.' SHOOT'
*M'- SHOOT?
'-me fcf&omN mwotoe' iscanp of m, IFun effeM/Nmfaui e pop uineC M-me I
BANISHFD' AILOFUS' BAN6H6P fm UORLPmsNim/ pnce mm. jfnaeoH iiisue :unaiimSMEPT OUT THE POORune ptscm*v UH&BRtB.'\
trs s/kiwsi&n's fault of ceme...wrm 
iHose/MFUL tetri rnt 
IuSf shirts iihnTh eTwnu gov wuEvt use soMe efeSHAPOV.'
umy. UmHOLP IT.HAorrmeWHY AREN'TISLANPS.1 SEASICKWffcT POONP.ANYMORE ?
g>i1jPr\>iSL*
'i 7sJ
ii
A "*>mrnXu\K.
our/urcurm 
:una arrwytwmo mum! =_ I
-m
Novm/N 5t6,&6 
mmt.'TH/S MKL 6 AN NTFMm ML MQ-v&rrf thmbu MWs/ioK Mm/ 
68X66 SH0CT2 MAY
emimrxHis *
oi
yo'vlk
oH-memte, ip tone* oe n PMcapeimA&
VI
ANP SO AFTER HC RVSKKS LEFTum am* :unag i woe T seA hbShvm emdhITSt bahfTREASURE HUMR MEL FISHEK
tffmte.t TLhmS TwutmaYTAU.Y KMOCXWO ME 0H1HEmoots wm T Gotp nbor,THERE*/ CAUSINO AMNESIA..HE PROPPEP Me OFF
PRVO MOBSTERS THEM MUSOBP ME. STEAUNO MY VISA CARP PtNMtCSS, I nnoP T mee wrm T PKXAjaep ANPY xmrmAN WHO CXOPPEP ME OFT mBum coutry tTcstBNP C0NFV9BP
\
THRTSrr.
CONumtumoNS rue AWTRiPicua/s 1 JUST
tbSY msrs eves mei hu me I tuSh
MRHBS tm

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland
Now Open Five Days A Week
Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Thursday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
New! Happy Hours
Wednesday through Friday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Soda and Spritzers 2 for l$1.00 Nachos
Interested in
Performing at 
Scotland Yard?
Call X4821
