Commencement Ball 
June 13 9 till 1
Jerry McGeorge's 
Band 
Thistle Hall
Alumni Drive 
M.M.C.C. - Leading 
Industries - Second 
Engineering - Third
VOL. XXVI, No. 32.,CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 31, 1932.
ANNUAL ALUMNI DRIVE ENTERS 
THIRD WEEK
Drive Will Last Until 
June 14; Membership 
Cards Sell for $2
1 M. C. C. NOW LEADS
Payment of Dues Before 
June 14 Gives Seniors 
$1 Reduction
f
The third week of the senior 
alumni membership campaign finds 
he Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College leading the other colleges 
' the number of members jointhe Alumni Federation. The. 
?.gc of Industries ranks sec- the College of Engineering, 
s. and the College of Fine
fourth.
Kies may be paid at the Alumni 
/ Room 206, or the Gymnasium 
Uciing, any day from 9:00 to 
ai in the morning and from 
to 4:30 in the afternoon, 
ncnt of Alumni dues before 
vc? 14 entitles seniors to a $1.00 
ction from the usual rate,
ir June 14, the dues will be 
TO; An application blank for 
j-nbership will be found in-aner section of this issue, 
vlembers of the faculty heartily 
'ocatc that all seniors to join 
Alumni Association.
n. Charles Watkins, chairman 
lie Margaret Morrison faculty 
assistant to the president, in 
ncntV/ig upon the matter of 
ni j membership says, He
farthest who travels alone
gi sense of an old proverb, 
sis -II noticc, however, that 
is said about either the
i or the pleasures of the.
,i0n; You should ponder these 
.is before deciding to set
yjn collcgc without mcmbcr. j your Alumni Association.
111 in,blications of the associa11 serve to keep you im
]. |Vith a large group of pco-ligi, ic pao have had the same prc^iEn for life that you have 
, Reports concerning the proopof your classmates will af)(i stimulus to your efforts. 
Usuccess will react in a simiinner upon those who knew 
Continued on Page Four)
iCCALAUREATE 
SUNDAY, JUNE 13
verend Robert E. Speer
1 Will Deliver Address 
to Seniors
'lie Senior Baccalaureate Service
4 be held at eight oclock Sunevening, June -13, at Carnegie 
isic Hall. Reverend Rob.ert E. 
.;cr, D.D., of New York, and 
iretarv of the Presbyterian 
rd of Foreign Missions will 
'-ess seniors, their friends, and 
ibers of the faculty, 
en graduates of the June 
s will meet in the smoking
11 in the basement of the Music 
. between 7:30 and 7:45 oclock 
Sunday evening. Women gradumeet in the Green Room on 
balcony of the foyer. Both 
tips will march to the hall with 
class marshals, 
eniors will wear academic coses. Each senior who will ree a document of graduation 
Commencement Day must  be 
ent at the Baccalaureate Serunless lie has been excused 
advance by the Director of 
College.
it Issue of Next Years 
Tartan Out September 27
ic first issue of next year's 
an will be published on TucsScptcmbcr 27, the second day 
registration. Junior editors will 
rt at. the Tartan oiTicc.Wcduy afternoon, September 21,. at 
oclock. Make-up will begin 
9 o'clock, Friday morning, 
ember 23. Reporters should 
rt at this time.
Coming Events
Wednesday, June 1 
few and Old Student Council 
,ics Meeting,  Y Club Room,
Monday, June 6
idio Talk by Editor of the
f.n, WWSW, 5:45. 
iio Talk by Dr. A. Avinoff, 
VE, 6:45.
McKees Rocks Wins 
Newspaper Contest
The Rox Rocket of McKees 
Rocks High school was adjudged 
the best high school newspaper in 
Allegheny county in the first an
nual newspaper contest sponsored 
by the Carnegie Chapter of Pi Delta 
Epsilon, men's journalistic honor
ary. The Langleyan, of Langley 
High school, won the award for 
the paper containing the best edi
torials, and the Red and Blue," of 
McKeesport .High school, for the 
best news articles. Each one of 
the winning schools will be pre
sented with a 'loving cup this week | 
by a representative of Pi Delta 
Epsilon. 'Judges in the contest were Wil
lard M. James of the News Bu
reau, Prof. L. T. Lawler, Freder
ick Davis ail'd Francis Dill of the 
Department of Printing, and Har
ry D. Holb, retiring editor-inchief of the Tartan.
DOCTOR BAKER 
WILL SPEAK AT 
COMMENCEMENT
President Will Officiate At 
Exercises For First 
Time
27th GRADUATION
Will Hold Exercises in Syria 
Mosque on Tuesday,
June 14
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, President 
of Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, will deliver the address at the 
twen ty-s.eVen t h commen cement of 
the Institute, which will be held 
at the Syria Mosque at 10:30 
o'clock, Tuesday morning, June 14.
This is the first time the Presi
dent of the Institute has acted in 
the capacity of. commencement 
speaker since 19J2, -when Dr. Aar
on Hammerschlag, who was at 
that time president, addressed the 
graduating seniors. Dr. Baker has 
not definitely decided upon the 
subject of his addrcss! and. in all 
probability ' will simply bid adieu 
to tlie graduates.
Dr. Baker has been President of 
Carnegie since 1922, when lie was 
(Continued on Page Four)
Research Fellowships 
Awarded to Eleven
Eleven research fellowships in 
the Departments, of Chctaistry and 
Mining and Metallurgy were re
cently. announced . for . the year 
1932-1933. All of these fellowships 
have been issued to men who arc 
at Carnegie at the present. Four 
of these have had their fellowships 
renewed.
Wilson Ii. Power, James H. McAteer, Jr., 'Richard H. I-Icctcr, all 
of whom are in the Department of 
Chemistry, and Miles K. Smith, 
have had their, fellowships renew
ed.
John M. Weger, Fred B. Sitt, 
William J. Syirbely, Frederick R. 
Millhiscr, all of whim are in the 
Chemistry Department; Henry L. 
Bunker, Arthur C. Barnhart and 
Iiersch V. Beasly, in the Depart
ment of Mining and Metallurgy, 
are seniors now and have received 
a fellowship for next year.
Messrs. Bunker and Basley will 
study the mixing of coals on the 
ash fusion temperature of the mix
ture; Mr. Millhiser, Phenol iden
tifications; Mr. Barnhard, the grindability of coal, and Mr. Svikley 
the properties of titanous salt so
lutions. The problems for the oth
ers have not as yet been decided. .
Alpha Chi Alpha to 
Initiate on June 10
The Theta Chapter of Alpha Chi 
Alpha, national womens honor
ary journalistic sorority, will hold 
both its rough and formal initia
tions on Tuesday, June 10, for its 
three pledges, Katherine Wholey, 
Mary McCullough and Rosemary 
Saxton. The rough initiation will 
be held ui the Women's Club 
Room in the Gymnasium building 
at 10 o'clock, and will be fol
lowed at 2 oclock by the formal 
luncheon.
Katherine Wholey, who is a 
junior in Margaret Morrison Car
negie Collcgc, is treasurer of Mar
garet Morrison Senate, a member 
of Student Council and the Liter
ary Staff of the Puppet, and a 
former Cwcn.
Mary McCullough, who is a jun
ior in Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, is a member of the Pup
pet Literary Staff and a Tartan 
reporter.
Rosemary Saxton is a sophomore 
in the College of Fine Arts, Vice 
Presidentof Cwens and a Tartan 
reporter.
SMITH AWARD PRESENTED TO W. E. GROVES
Ivar H. Lundgren Given 
 Special Prize By 
Committee
ALUMNI DECIDE WINNER
Winner Chosen on Basis 
of Ability, Activities 
and Need
William Evcrcttc - Groves, a junior 
in the Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Aeornautical Option, has 
been awarded the George H Smith 
Scholarship given annualI3' to a mem
ber of the junior class of the col
lege of Engineering by the Alumni 
Association of the College of Engi
neering. The award; amounting to 
$100, is payable upon registration next year.
Announcement was also made of 
a special award of $50 to Ivar Her
bert Lundgren, also a junior, in the 
Department of Mechanical Engineers 
ing.
Groves is a member of the tennis 
;quad and Lvndgren of the Puppet 
Staff.
The winners of the awards were 
selected from eleven applicants after 
personal interviews with a committee 
of alumni appointed by the Alumni 
Association. In awarding the scholar
ships, the applicant's scholastic stand
ing, personal need, personalitj', and 
participation in school and class activi
ties were taken into consideration.
The scholarship was created as a 
memorial to George H. Smith, Eng. 
1910.
In making recommendations for the 
award the committee reported: "We 
regret that we have not enough 
scholarships to award tc all the candi
dates. This group' is composed oi 
some cxccll'cnt men, and in ' many 
cases, the awards could not be made 
to the candidate beCdure of our con
fidence in his ability, to get along.
Failure to obtain this award is 
in many  cases a tribute to the mans 
own abiV'iy and character.
May wc congratulate the winners 
and oftYr our best wishes to the 
others "Members c the Committee making 
the awards are: Thomas N. Griggs,
E. 24, A. J. D'.cux, E. 22; Walter 
N. Flanagan, E. '15; Donald G. Dal
ton, E. '27; and A. J. A. Peterson,
E. 13.
A scholarship for $300 to be 
awarded to a senior in the Depart
ment of Elcctircal Engineering has 
been offered to Carnegie by Mrs. 
Elizabeth Kccd Wurts. Mrs. Wurts 
will turn over sufficient shares of 
stock to produce an income of 
$300. Should the income in any 
year amount to $150 in excess of 
the $300, a scholarship for $150 
will be awarded to a junior in 
the Department of Electrical 
Engineering.
The head of the Department will 
make nominations to the Commit
tee on Scholarships. This award 
will be known as the Alexander 
Jay Wurts Memorial Scholarship 
in honor of Professor Wurts, the 
first member appointed to the 
teaching staff of Carnegie.
There will be 110 award mad-: 
this year,
COUNCIL TONIGHT
J. Lentz to Direct Joint Meet
ing in Y Room At 
7:00 P.-M.
The new and old Student Coun
cil bodies will hold a joint meet
ing tonight at 7 oclock in the 
Y club room. At this meeting 
the new council will, be officially 
installed and Josef Lentz, the new 
president will direct the procedure 
for the first time. At tlie meeting 
next Tuesday the new council will 
hold its first meeting as a body. 
This will also be the last meet
ing of the group this 3rear.
The following is a list of the 
new members of the council: Josef 
L. Lentz, president; Robert R. 
Smith, vice president; John L. 
Kronenberg, treasurer; Margaret 
M. Seibert, secretary; Thomas Ry
der, president of Arts senate; 
Hulda Brierly, vice president of 
Arts senate; Ira Kuhn, president 
of Industries senate; Kay Wholey, 
president of Margaret Morrison
senate; James Stahl, president of 
Engineering senior class; Thomas 
Coulter, president of Industries 
senior class; Fred Flaherty, presi
dent of Arts senior class; Ann 
Warden, president of Margaret 
Morrison senior class; Sam Wicks, 
treasurer of Industries senate;
Jack I-Iiltz, treasurer of Engineer
ing senate; Charles Slater, treas
urer of Arts senate; William
Lazuras, representative of Engi
neering senate; James Fergus, rep
resentative of Industries senate.
(Continued on Page Three)
Candidates For Football 
Mgrs. Report At Field House
Clarence Ovcrend, G r a d 11 a te 
Manager of Athletics, has issued a 
call for assistant football man
agers for next year. Present fresh
men, who will be sophomores next 
year are urged to report to Mil
ton Dinger, Equipment Manager, 
at the Field House this week.
Candidates will be asked to re
port next year in time for fall 
training. '
Mrs. Wurts Offers 
Senior Scholarship
ORGANIZATIONS 
ELECT OFFICERS 
FOR NEXT YEAR
Hulda Brierly Will Head In
tersorority Council; New 
Rules Passed
ALPHA TAU INITIATES t
Short Course Students Elect
H. I. Zipperman, Presi
dent; Cwens Organize
At a recent meeting the newly 
elected group comprising the In
tersorority Council chose their of
ficers for the coming year. Hulda 
Brierly 33 was elected president 
of . the Council. The other officers 
are Helen Edmunds.o.n 34, vice 
president; Ruth Fackler 34, Secre
tary, and Evelyn Gamble 34,
Treasurer. Miss Brierly, who .is 
enrolled in the - Department c ' 
Painting and Decorating, is a mem
ber of Alpha Kappa Psi sorority, 
vice president of the Arts Senate 
for the coming year and was re
cently called to Mortar Board.
Several new rules which have 
been passed bj1- the Council con
cern rough initiation by the
sororities. In the future paddles 
will be prohibited and anything 
which might be considered objec
tionable by the initiate or her 
family is barred from the initia
tion. No member of the opposite 
sex may assist in the initiation 
nor may anjr part of it occur in a 
conspicuous or public place.
Alpha Tau 
Alpha Tau, College of Industries 
honorary society/ has elcctcd the 
following men to hold office next 
year: President, John W. Ladd, 
Secretary, William Bostick, and
Treasurer, Shorey Allan. ^
Director A. C. Jewett was the 
principal speaker, and Professor 
R. B. Lcighou the toastmaster at 
the initiation banquet which was
held at Webster Hall on May 26. 
The following pledges were for
mally initiated: S. Allan, W. A.
(Continued on Page Four)
Last Chance For Books
Seniors will have their last/ 
opportunity' to order Commence
ment booklets today between 11:30 
and 1:30 in Room 106, in Marga
ret Morrison and in the Y office.
CARNEGIE MEN WILL ATTEND 
R.0.T.C.CAMP
Students Will Get Special 
Training in Military 
Subjects
FORTY-TWO TAKE COURSE
Camp Will Open June 10 
and Close July 21; Men 
Receive Pay
Forty-two men from the Car
negie unit of the R. O. T. C. will 
attend the Engineer R. O. T. C. 
camp at Humphreys, Virginia, this 
year. The camp, situated on the 
Potomac River, about 18 miles be
low Washington, D. C., opens on 
June 10, and closes on July 21. 
Students are paid for attendance 
at the camp.
The camp schedule includes in
tensive training, in general mili
tary subjects, such as phj-sical 
training and calisthenics, first aid, 
hygiene and sanitation, drill and 
command, marching'and camping, 
riding and caring for horses, com
bat principles, rifle and pistol
marksmanship, etc., as "well as in
struction in military engineering 
subjects, including the construction 
of military bridges, field fortifica
tion and demolition and military
rigging. This specficd training is 
for the purpose of teaclmg army 
engineers how to handle men, to 
show them how to plan and exe
cute military construction proj
ects, and .to afford the student
practical experience in military
subjects.: j
Recreation . is provided in such 
sports as ro.wing, golf, tennis, base
ball, track and dancing. These 
pastimes are managed and paid 
for by the students, who also do 
their own housekeeping.
Other schools sending represen
tatives to' Camp Humphreys are 
Alabama University, Johns Hop
kins University, West Virginia 
University, Yale, Massachusetts In
stitute of Technology, College of 
the City of New York, Lafayette,
Sidney Krasik Selected 
As Outstanding Engineer; 
Given Theta Tau Award
Selecting Committee Made 
Up of Department 
Heads
Is Given Piacque
Steel Engineers To 
Meet On June 20th
The Association of Iron and 
Steel Electrical Engineers will hold 
their annual convention and Iron 
and Steel Exposition in Pittsburgh 
June 20 to 23, 1932, at the William 
Penn Hotel.
The Mechanical, Electrical, Lu
brication, Combustion and .Safety 
Engineering Divisions of the Asso
ciation will present papers which 
Will be discussed by engineers of 
.national repute.
Mr. J. J. Booth, president of 
the association, has asked Mr. G. 
Rees Carroll, a National Board 
Director of the association and 
alumnus of Carnegie Tech, to ex
tend to the faculty, students and 
alumni of the Institute .a cordial 
invitation to attend the convention, 
technical sessions and visit the 
Iron and Steel Exposition. 
Tickets for the Exposition may 
be secured gratis by writing to the 
society at 1010 Empire Building.
Secrets of Woodcraft Are Revealed To 
Summer Councilors And Novice Campers
By MARGARET GRIFFIN
Many Carnegie students will prob
ably be filling the positions this sunir 
mer of camp councilors or advisors. 
Lieutenant Cathran, of the local R.
O. T. SC. unit, has summarized a 
multitude of facts concerning the 
work which will undoubtedly, at one 
time or another during the1 summer, 
enter into the activities of not only 
camp councilors but of anyone en
joying an out-of-doorJ vacation.
One of the principle perils of the 
woods, according to the exaggerated 
ideas of many people, is the danger 
of snakes. In reality there are only 
three poisonous snakesthe copper
head, the rattier, and the moccasin. 
These three enemies of the cam
pers peace of mind can be recog
nized by characteristic markings. 
The name of the copper-head is 
self-descriptive; the rattler an
nounces its presence by a rattling 
noise; and the moccasin is known 
by its blunt head and pits under 
the eyes.
The most Important prerequisite for 
a comfortable hike is comfortable 
feet, and roomy shoes that bind the 
ankles are an almost infallable guar
antee of comfort. The feet should 
also be exercised by arching, and if
the skin is tender, one.or two pairs 
of light woolen socks should be 
worn.
A small bottle of iodine is an ex
cellent addition to a good hiking 
pack, from the standpoint of thirst. 
One drop of iodine diluted with one 
quart of water, and left for onehalf hour, is an effective thirst 
quencher. Great care must be exer
cised, however, not to make the solu
tion too strong.
Upon becoming lost, the amuti*.ur 
will usuall}' wander aimlessly. Rather 
should he sit down and try to recol
lect the route taken. Im here; the 
camp is lost expresses the proper 
attitude. Such ancimarks as streams, 
and the direction in which the}' flow 
are invaluable ailr.
Over-indulgence in camp games can 
prove disastrous to the players com
fort. Easy participation at first, and 
a friendly spirit of rivalry arc allimportant.
Swimming is, of course, the most 
popular activity in camp. Its instruc
tion, to children particularly, should 
be executed with the purpose of main
taining the subjects confidence in the 
water. Keeping the head under water 
and breathing out slowly are vital 
fundamentals.
SIDNEY KRASIK, 32
RADIO TALKS TO 
BEGIN ON JUNE 6
Carnegie Museum Sponsors 
Broadcast of Series 
Over WCAE
A series of -radio talks entitled 
Nature at Her Best in the Sum
mer, will be broadcast under the 
direction of the Educational Sec
tion of the Carnegie Museum over 
Station WCAE during the summer 
months. The talks will be broad
cast every Monday evening at 6:45 
p. m., starting June 6 and ending 
September 26.
Tirefollowing talks comprise the 
series:
June 6, Dr." A. Avinoff,'Director, 
Carnegie Museum, The Carnegie 
Museum, Our Position and Aims 
in the Study of Natural History; 
June 13, Dr. O. E. Jennings, Di
rector of Education and Curator of 
Botany, Our Summer Wild Flow
ers; June'^O, Dr. Jennings, How 
Plants Travel; June 27, Miss Jane 
A. White, Assistant Curator of 
Education, Camping in Pennsylva
nia Woods.
July 11, Miss White, Hit
ting the Trail From the Cab
in; Juljr 18, Mr. M. Graham Net
ting, Curator . of Herpetology, 
Poisonous Snakes of Pennsylva
nia; July 26, Mr. Netting, Harm
less Snakes of Pennsylvania.
August. 1, Dr. S. T. Brooks, Cu
rator of Invertebrate Zoology, 
"Among Our Lower Animals: The 
Protozoa; August 8, Dr. Brooks, 
The Crayfish; August 16, Mr. 
Edward H. Graham, Assistant Cu
rator  of Botany, Poisonous Plants 
of Pennsylvania; August 22, Mr. 
William Darrah, Carnegie Museum 
Graduate Assistant, Fossil Hunt
ing Grounds Near Pittsburgh; Au
gust 29, Dr. Jennings, Our Weeds 
and What They Do.
September 2, Mr. Ii. K. Wal
lace, Docent, Carnegie Musem, 
Fur Bearing Animals of Pennsyl
vania; September 19, Mr. Graham, 
Plants Which Look Like Other 
(Continued on Page Three)
Student Book Exchange
Opens At Skibo Inn Today
The Student Book Exchange at 
Skibo Inn, under the direction of 
George A. Pillsbury, a student in the 
College of Industries, will reopen to
day. The book exchange will buy 
books, whether they are to be used 
on the Carnegie campus next 3rear or 
not, as well as have on sale books 
which will be used in some of the 
summer school courses. This is the 
third 3rear that Mr. Pillsbury has 
been in charge of the exchange.
Womens Guild Will 
Hold Annual Drive
At a meeting of the Womens 
Guild, held last Thursday at Mar
garet Morrison, tentative plans 
were made for the Guilds annual 
drive which will take place on 
October 3, 4, and 5. Tags will be 
sold-as in previous years, but the 
price has not yet been definitely 
set; it will be either fifty or twen
ty-five cents, depending largely on 
conditions in the fall.
Class captains were appointed to 
supervise and manage the drive. 
Henrietta Steinberg is Guild cap
tain of the senior class of M. M., 
Virginia Artz of the junior class, 
Virginia Cooper of the sophomore 
and Virginia Cooper of the sopliom'ore class. The captains will ap
point several other members of 
the class to co-operate with them 
in the canvassing. 
Winner is Senior in Dept, 
of ElectricalEngi
neering
The recipient of the Theta Tau 
award, which was made for the 
.first time this year and which 
goes to the outstanding engineer 
of the graduating class, is Sidney 
Krasik of the Department of Elec
trical Engineering*
This award which was sponsored 
by Theta Tau was made by the 
heads of. the various engineering, 
departments. The purpose of Theta 
Tau in  presenting this award was 
to mark in some fitting public 
manner the outstanding engineer
ing student who shows promise of 
bringing honor to his school by 
his attainments as an engineer.
The student so honored must 
fulfill certain qualification require
ments to the satisfaction of the 
awarding committee. He must be 
a senior in the Collcgc oi Engi
neering and must have an average 
factor of 4.5 during his four years 
of study.
Points upon which the award 
shall be based:
1. Distinguished scholarship.
2. Engineering ability.
3. Breadth of Interest,
4. Unselfish activity.
5. Leadership.
6. Integrity.
7. Dependability.
Sidney Krnoik, the first to be 
honored by this award, is a senior 
in the Department of Electrical 
Engineering, a member of tiic.Mens 
Dormitory Council, a member of 
Eta Kappa Nu, Electrical Engi
neering Honorary, and possessor 
of a , Founders scholarship for 
1931-32. He is a student of high 
scholastic record, having achieved 
a 6..0 average several times.
The heads of the various engi
neering departments, with the co
operation of 'the Curriculum Com(Continued on Page Four)
WILL PRESENT ANNUAL BALL 
FORSENIORS
Commencement Ball Set 
For Monday Evening, 
June 13
TO HOLD FLOOR SHOW
Jerry McGeorge to Play; 
Tickets on Sale in 
Y Office
NEW HEADS ARE 
ELECTED BY W.S.O.
Organization Raises Funds 
For Scholarships For 
Women
At a recent meeting of the 
Womens Scholarship Organization, 
the following officers were elected: 
Christine Lcighou, president, and 
Dorothy Miller, treasurer.
Miss Leighou is a junior in the 
Secretarial Department, president of 
Alpha Chi Alpha, and an associate 
editor of the Tartan. Miss Miller 
is a sophomore in the Social 
Work Department. These officers 
succeed Ruth Brooks, and Mar
garet Seibert, last years president 
and treasurer.- The other officers 
will be chosen next fall.
At the present .time the organ
ization is interviewing theater 
managers and Miss Beegle, concert 
manager, concerning next years 
benefit performance. In view of the 
present economic conditions, it has 
not been definitely decided whether 
a large benefit will be sponsored 
again next year. A former plan, 
by which all of the womens or(Continued on Page Four)
Tartan Rated 18th 
Among Publications
In its annual rating of college 
newspapers,_ The Daily Tar Heel 
of the University of North Caro
lina graded the Carnegie Tartan 
eighteenth in rating of eight-nine 
papers from various colleges in 
the country. The grading was 
based upon news content, editori
als, features, style, sports, make
up and columns.
The Notre Dame Scholastic was 
awarded first place in the group; 
the Auburn Plainsman, second, and 
the University of Florida Alliga
tor, third. The weeklies were clas
sified into three groups, and un
der this system, Carnegie received 
second place in the Class B divis
ion. The members of a special 
committee, designated as the Col
lege Weekly Newspaper Rating 
Committee, were responsible for 
the ratings which have recently 
been give-. ___________
The annual Commencement Bah 
will be presented this year by the 
Class of 1932 in Thistle Hall on 
Monday, June 13. Jerry McGeorgcs ten-piece orchestra will 
furnish the music from 9 until 1. 
This popular campus orchestra will 
be remembered as the band that 
has played for numerous dances 
during the winter and for the re
cent Spring Carnival musical show, 
Tar and Feathers. 
r The tickets this year will be $1. 
This price represents a cut of 25 
cents from the tax of last year. 
Attractive programs will also be 
in evidence at the ball. Tickets 
arc on sale at the Y office.
In order to make the evening 
more enjoyable for all those pres
ent, the committee is introducing 
a new feature at Carnegiea floor 
show. William G. Beal, one of 
the directors and dancers of Tar 
and Feathers, has consented to 
participate in the show and to ar
range the program. Others who  
will entertain are Miss Mary Dingfelder and Miss Helen Keefe, sing
ing duo, who were such a tremen
dous success in the Spring Carni
val events and Mr. McClellan 
Shinn, acclaimed pianist and sing
er who acted and sang the lead in 
Leaning on the Bar, in Tar and Feathers.
The committee in charge of the 
ball is composed of graduating 
seniors from each of the four col
leges. The members are: Edward
H. Keller, Chairman, Collcgc of 
Industries; Rosalind' R. Mitshclcn, 
Margaret Morrisn, who is schding out invitations; William A. 
Conway, Collcgc of Industries, who 
is supervising the dccorating of 
Thistle Hall; Edward Z. Ricstcr, 
Collcgc of Fine Arts, who is in 
charge of the programs.
Although informal dress will be 
proper, summer formal attire will 
be very much in evidence, aiid it 
is the wish of the committee that 
everyone will be dressed in this manner.
Thistle Hall will be fittingly dec
orated with palms and ferns to 
make the last social event this year 
and the last during the collcgc ca
reer of .the seniors more enjoyable.
The following have been invited 
as patrons and patronesses: Dr.
Thomas S. Baker, Dean Mary 
Watson Green, Dean Arthur W. 
Tarbcll and Mrs. Tarbcll, Dean 
Glcnjinning Keeble, Dr. and Mrs. 
Charles Watkins, Dr. and Mrs. W.
F. Rittman, Director and Mrs. W. 
'E. Mott, Prof. and Mrs. R. B.
Leighou, Prof and -Mrs. G. H. 
Follows, Prof. and Mrs. F. P. Co
lette, Colonel and Mrs. E. A. Fair
ley. Those who have been invited 
to be chaperones are Dr. and Mrs. 
Bartow Griffis, Dr. and Mrs'. J.
H. Neely, Dr. and Mrs. B. E.
Warden, Prof and Mrs. L. T.
Lawler, Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Rock
well, Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Hun^ 
phreys, Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Milled
JOURNALISTS TO 
CONVENE HERE
Harry Hower Is Elected 
Pi Delta Epsilon 
President
The Carnegie chapter of Pi Del
ta Epsilon, honorary journalism 
fraternity, will be host to tlie for
ty-four chapters of the United 
States during the next national 
convention to be held in Pitts
burgh. This convention, which is 
of three days duration, will assem
ble at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology cither this winter or 
the following winter, the date to 
be decided in the future by na
tional officers.
At the initiation ccrcmonics and 
banquet held Sunday, May 29, in 
the Garden Tea Room, East Lib
erty, the following officers for the 
coming' year were clectcd: Harry
S. Howcr, Jr., president; John W. 
Ladd, vice president, and Edward
E. McDonald, secretary-treasurcr.
Thirteen new men, chosen from 
the staffs of the Carnegie Tartan, 
the Puppet, the Thistle and TriI (Continued on Page Four),
^

---------------------------------------------------

PAGF. TWOTHE CXR1TEGE TRT7OT 'TUESDAY, MAY 31, 1932.
All Lottormon Got Certificates for 
Lotters at tho Graduato 
Managor's Offico.TARTAN SPORTS PAoi^
Freshmen Who Are Candidates for 
Football Managership Report 
to Athletic Office.
THE TARTAN TRACK TEAM put on a colorful finale 
for the present season by swamping the highly touted Grove 
City team 95^-37)/;. This victory made it five wins out of 
eight meets and will go down in the records as one of the most 
successful of the Plaid Track Teams. Captain Tom Coulter 
added a dramatic finish to his successful season by winning 
five -first places for twenty-five points, probably the most ever 
scored in one meet by any one Carnegie Track man. The 
Tennis team also ended its season with a victory over the Pres
idents of W. & J., completing the season with a very enviable 
record, loosing but three matches out of eight.
* * . *
' THE 1931-1032 ATHLETIC YEAR will be looked upon 
a$ an extremely successful, campaign taking all of the AthieC&Te'ams into consideration. The football season was riot as 
successful as some of the past ones have been considering just 
tlie number of victories but the team can be classified as the 
sarappiest one in the history of the school. A team which be
fore the season started was considered green and inexperienced 
went through game after game battling their stronger opponents 
and outfighting nearly every team. Few substitutes were avail
able and when the opponents began throwing in reserves the 
same tired men were in there fighting until the whistle blew. 
Who can forget the Tartans ripping wide holes through the 
great" Pitt line and outscoring the Panthers in first downs? 
AVIio,;can forget the last quarter of the Notre Dame game when 
the Irish first team came rushing out onto the field relieving 
their hard plugging second team,? How Marchy Swartz arid his 
teammates, fresh from a whole quarters rest, expected to ride 
roughshod over the tired Tartans who were unable to substi
tute? How their cockyness turned to respect as the Plaid
turned the tables and prevented a Notre Dame score? We 
cant forget those moments and for years to come this team will 
b<?,respected the most.
Coach Hogan rounded . together as classy, a looking team 
as had. been seen in these parts for some time and except for 
a period of two weeks when it was in a slump due to the illness 
o; several of its regulars, this outfit played almost unbeatable
ball. The cagers 'boasted of victories over Duquesne, Temple,
.'New York U., Chicago, Buffalo, Yale, Princeton, Georgetown 
;ancl quite a .few others.
The swimming team was one of the forerunners of the dis
trict and lost only one meet. Led. by Capt, Bill Edwards and 
supported by such stars as Boyer, Miller and Franke the team 
 splashed its way to a successful season.
Captain Price and his cross country team ended its season 
in grand manner boasting of a victory, over, the strong*-Pitt 
team. I.ncidently, it was the only Plaid team this year which 
succeeclecl in downing the panthers.
 k >1  Xf
JUNE 14 MANY CARNEGIE ATHLETES will don the 
Cap and Gown and receive their sheepskins, showing that they 
have successfully completed their coljegd bourses. It is inevit
able that once in his career each athlete must take off his sports 
wear and face the business world, fighting harder than lie has 
ever fought before to become successful. To any athlete there 
has been a lot of work as well as a lot of fun in making any 
team. But has it been worth it? To some it has meant a 
way of getting a collcgc education, to others it has been sport 
for sport sake. But now that graduation is near do they not 
wish they had spent more time on their school work gaining 
knowledge which would bo more useful in becoming successful? 
Tin true that All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy;r 
but some sports require more than the necessary amount of 
recreation. Given equal intelligence a athlete who is a con
scientious student cannot or hasn't the time to gain as much 
from his school work as a conscientious scholar can.
If the participation in athletics has given him more initia
tive, has made him a harder worker, a good loser and a gracious 
winner, and if lie applied this to future problems, then his college 
athletics have been worth while. It is very -pleasant to have 
one's name upon the lips of all the fellow students and to be 
looked upon as a hero, but if he has let it turn his head then 
athletics have been worse to him than nothing at all. - Some of 
the names of our sports leaders will be remembered for, years 
to come, by the students, while other ones will be forgotten 
immediately. But can one not measure the success of his ath
letics, the value he has received for the time expendedby that 
method. But rather is it what good it has done to hehimself, 
and to what use he applied it that counts. And after all is 
that not the measure of the value of everything?* * * * 
With this we say good bye for the present year. Being 
responsible for only two issues we have not had a chance to 
say everything we have wanted to. Next year we shall attempt 
to PRESENT^ and COMMENT upon the sport life at Carne
gie. From time to time we will express our opinions and be
cause-they are personal they are necessarily biased. For which 
reason we shall often differ from the opinions of many. Con
structive criticism will always be welcomed because it is 
through this only that the column will be improved.
TOM COULTER 
RE-ELECTED AS 
TRACK CAPTAIN
Successful Season Shows Five 
Wins; Graduation Toll 
is Heavy
At the conclusion of the current 
season the Carnegie track and 
field lettcr-mcn honored Thomas 
H. Coulter with the captaincy of 
the team for the coming year. Toni.
one of the most popular and 
deserving of Carnegies sons to 
ever lead a track team, as the 
blond Canuck has been synony
mous with Carnegie track success 
for the past two years. Although 
the regular dual season is over 
Captain Coulter is working every 
day preparatory to carrying the 
Plaid to victory in the I. C. A. A. 
meet which will be held in Berk
ley, Cal. Tom will also represent 
Canada in the Tenth Olympiad in 
Los Angeles this summer.
Season Successful
The season just past was, in 
many respects, the most success
ful ever enjoyed by Carnegie in 
track. Five meets were placed in 
the victory column, as against 
three on the wrong side of the 
licet. The real success, however, 
was the interest and ddsirc to win 
which marked every practice ses
sion and was particularly notice
able during the meets. Reflecting 
back over the season the only re
grettable meet was that with 
Temple. True, the Owls had a 
strong and well-balanced team, butthe Tartans felt that, with their 
full strength, they might have won, 
and arc therefore anxious for re
venge in Philadelphia next Spring.
The first meet, in which the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association was 
the . opponent, served to iron out 
the kinks and gave the squad the 
"feel' of things as well / as an 
easy victory. The initial college 
dual meet of the season resulted 
in a victory over Western Reserve 
in Cleveland. This engagement 
gave the many sophomores their 
first taste of varsity competition 
and the experience gained helped 
greatly in the coming contests. 
Reach Peak in Cinncy
The following weqk in 'Cincin
nati, the Carnegie trackers climbcil 
competitive heights which' they 
were never to regain. Here the 
learn rcachecl its mental and physi
cal peak, with full numerical 
strength, and the Cincinnati bear
cats went down to a close and ex
citing defeat. The W. & J. meet 
was easy for Tech but Geneva and 
Pitt were too strong for the tiring 
Tartans. Temple then paid her 
visit and left with a victory. In 
the final contest Carnegie swamptd 
Grovo City and the season came 
to its close. 1 
Although the Tartans will suffer 
heavily in the field events through 
graduation, this loss will be par
tially offset by Plcbc stars who 
will come Up, next. Spring. In Art 
Perl nit, freshman captain, the var
sity will find a dependable and 
speedy sprinter who should plug 
the big gap there this year and 
relieve Captain Coulter,of this re
sponsibility; Lawrence Burke, Plcbc 
distance star, has already proven 
his worth, and the mental burden 
of coming through aS expected, 
or better, is his. Other promising 
freshmen include Brown and Piakowski in. the weights; Hoffman, 
a milcr, and Allan, a hurdler and: 
pole vaultcr. De Witt also gives 
promise of developing into a good 
vaultcr and high jumper.
The schedulee1 for next year has 
not been arranged as yet but it 
is thought that Cincinnati might 
be replaced by one of the nearer 
schools. Otherwise the bill of fare 
should remain intact. The Tartans 
arc looking forward to a pros
perous season next Spring.
GRADUATING ATHLETES
AKMENTROUT
Plaid Trackers 
Score Victory 
In Final Meet
In their last meet of the year, the 
Carnegie trackcrs flashed some of tlie 
power that carried them so success
fully through their early contests, 
and decisively defeated Grove City 
Collcgc, 95Yz to 39/. Captain Coulter 
topped off an already sensational 
season by entering and winning five 
events for a grand total of 25 points. 
His victories came in the 100 and 
220 yard dashes, both hurdle races 
and the broadjump.
Jess Pricc closed his collegiate 
athletic career in a blaze of glory 
Thursday when he set a new Bowl 
rccord of 10:10.6 in his last twomile for Carnegie. Jonny Lord, who 
is also a senior, ran very well into 
second place. Barger and Merten tied 
for first place in their last vaults 
and Ralph also tied for first in the 
high jump and got a third in the 
broad. Murray Armcntrout closid his 
collcgc career by tossing the hammer 
into a first place against the strong 
Crimson weight men.
Lew Ewing was his usual depend
able self as lie took second in the 
220, and third in the 100 in addition 
to winning the 440. Carnegie, with 
Stankey leading the way, swept tlie 
880 and Ramsay and Allan again 
finished first and second in the mile.
TRACK EVENTS100-ynrd clitshWon by Coulter, CnrComeo ; Grnhiun, Grove Cit y, second ; Ewing, Cnrniiftlc, third. Time10 1-10 sceonds.
220-yard clnshWon by Coulter, CnrncBib; Ewing, GnrnoJdc, oc-ond; Grnhnni, Grovo City, third. Time22 0-10 seconds.l-10-ynrd dashWon by Ewing, Carnegie; 
Carr, Carnegie, second; Cross, Grove City, third. Timefi-i -1-10 seconds.
880-yard runWon by Stankey, Carnegie; Scholl, Carnegie, second; Mitchell, Carnegie, third. Time2 minutes 0 3-10 seconds,
1-mile runWon by llamsay, Cnrnegli . Alien, CarnoRle, se,cond; Atwell, Grove 
City, third. TimoI minutes -17 *1-10 seconds.
2-mlln runWon by Trice, Carnegie; Lord, Cnrnonlo, stieond; Hart, Grovu City, 
third. Time10 minutes 10 fi-10 seconds. (New Cnrhegiq Howl track record).120-yard low hurdlpsWon by Coulter, Carnegie; Graham, Grove City, second; lilggin, Carnegie, third, Time13 8-10 seconds.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by Coulter, 
Carnegie Graham, Grove City, second; Hlggln, Carnegie,.tiilHl,1 Timo1.0 3-10 seconds,
FIELD EVENTSShot nutWon by Crltchftcld, Grove City; Armcntrout, Carnegie, second; Blaine, Car
negie, third. Distance10 ieet 6 Inches.High jumpWon by Merten, Carnegie, 
and Trembath, Carnegie, tied for first place; Bullions, Grove City, and Uiggln, 
Carnegie, tied for third place. HeightC feet 8 Inches.Iole vaultWon by Merten, Carnegie, 
and Barger, Carnegie, tied for first place; Whitehill. Grove City, and Brlndlc, Grove 
City, tied for third. Height11 feet.DiscusWon by Shupo, Grove City; Gra
ham, Grove City, a,econd : Alexander, Grove City; third. Distance120 feet 1 inch.Broad jumpWon Tjy Coulter, Carnegie; 
Merton, Carnegie, second; Daugherty, Grove City, third. Distance21 feet 4\<j inches.
JavelinWon by Soich. Grove City; Stents, Carnegie, second; Blnlne, Carnegie, third. Distancelf.G feet.
Hammer:Won by Armcntrout, Carnegie; Saylcs, Garncgic, sccond: Beres, GroveCity, third. Dlstanco-^-121 feet.
Tartan Courtmen 
Close Season 
By Beating W-J
Kappa Sigs Capture 
Mushball Trophy
The Kappa Sigmas by defeating 
the Senior Architects on Monday 
and Kappa Delta Rlio Tuesday, 
finished their softball competition 
with six straight victories, enough 
to land them on top in the Intrajnural 1 mushball competition. The 
second place laurels were divided 
between three teams: the Senior
Architects, Kappa Delta Rho and 
Rlio Darnit Rho, each of whom 
had Ijca'tcn one' of the other two 
teams.
The Kappa Sigmas were by far 
the class of the league, going 
through the tough schedule with
out a defeat and meeting some of 
the hardest teams in the league. 
The Clyde street boys drew a bye, 
in the first round, but soundly wal
loped the Dclts in their first game 
16-2 and followed this victory over 
McGill Hall. The Betas who were 
their next opponents, succumbed 
inly after a tough struggle, the 
score being 5-4. Rho Darnit Rho 
took it on the chin in the game 
which decided the champion of the 
winners side of the bracket. In 
this contest Jagnow succccdcd in 
liolding the dorm boys down to 
four runs while his teammates col
lected five for him.
On the other side of the bracket 
the Senior Architccts were coming 
along fast after losing the first 
game to the Betas. They defeat
ed the D. U.s, the A. T. ds and 
the Delts in as many games and 
then won their side of the draw
ings by nosing out Kappa Delta 
Rho 6-5.
Carnegies varsity tennis team 
brought a successful season to a 
close .last Monday when they de
feated W. and J. on the Tartan 
courts, 6-1. The Pittsburghers 
won four out of five singles 
matches and both doubles matches. 
Only Thompson, the ace of the. 
Prcxy squad, was able to stop the 
Hoover entries, the Washington 
boy beating Grove in two hard 
sets. Dueger, Gesling, Hartig aiid 
Morris won their singles easily,' 
iand the Hartig-Dueger and the 
Groves-Gcsling combinations Avon 
in the doubles.
This season the varsity lias won 
five matches and lost three, a good 
record, considering the type of 
competition faced.
Irwin Jalonack, pride of Engclbreclit Hall, has been elected hon
orary captain of this years team. 
Jal, who traverses the courts in 
very rapid style for his bulk, has 
pla}red consistently fine tennis allyear, fighting his way from No. 10 
position up to No. 5. This was his 
first season on the varsity squad.
Lettermcn for this year - arc 
Groves, .Gesling, Dueger, Iiartig,- 
Jalonack, Morris, Corshcnhauscr 
and Manager Bailey. I.
Prospects for next years team 
are unusually bright. Rufe Hartig, 
sophomore star, who has won 
consistently this spring, Dueger, 
Groves, Corshcnhauser, this years 
entire freshman squad, and several 
other good playc'rs will be. on hand
By LEONARD HORWIN
INTRODUCINGGood morning, folks.
We introduce ourselves as your special news announcers on the Olympic Games, bringing to you for the next fdw months interesting side-lights on the "doings as America prepares its athletic partv for the world.* * *
UNCLE SAM THE HOST
During the last days of July and the first fourteen days of August, the United States plays host to the world and the games of the Xth Olympiad. To date, the record number of 40 nations have announced their intention to participate.
Southern California, the "Playground of America, and the scene of the events, is preparing a rip-roaring welcome.* * *
ITS NOT SC
People think of the Olympic Games as a type .of glorified trackmeet.
Bill Henry, famed sports writer and expert, for twenty years a leading correspondent on assignments to every part of the globe, nowsports technical director of the Olympic Gaines, was telling us of hiswork.
They are far more than that. Besides including an international contest in almost every field of sport with several score nations represented, they are in themselves a great gesture of international fellowship and a tradition rooted in antiquity."This, and the athletically built sports mentor in the tan sportsuit emphasized his words, "will probably be the only time in the liviof persons now living that the games will be held in America.* * *
OLYMPIAThese games had a deep symbolism in moss-covered antiquityIt is a matter of historical fact that down in ancient Greect battles were called off when the moon readied a certain positi the heaven during the summer solstice. The homicide squads on sides of the battlefield would then adjourn and tramp off to Oly on the west coast of Greece to hold the games.In truth, they were not games, but athletic rites of purification  cated to Zeus, invisible ruler of heaven and earth.* * *
DEATH AND REVIVALAlthought the Greeks had a word for him and more, the Rc emperor Theodosius finished both Greeks and games in the year A. D.And that was that for nearly fifteen centuries until the year 18'In that year the athletically-minded Frenchman, Baron Pierre Coubertin, then a youth of seventeen, proposed the revival of the ga. before the French Sports Union. His dream was realized at Atli four years laterthe city which once beheld the glory that was Gre in the days of the Olympiads, now witnessing the first modern edi< 
of the ancient games.It seems fitting that the Olympic Games, in which the phyi perfection of the youth of that ancient day inspired eternal work art, should have been revived by a youth in this modern day whei Games, with their intense competition, are an invaluable physica pression to men being dwarfed by the machine age.
when Coach Hoover makes the 
call in the spring of 1933.
The seasons summary:
C. I. T. 8, Duquesne 0.
C. I. T. 4, W. and J. 3.
C. I. T. 9, Duquesne 0.
C. I.' T. 8, Alumni 2.
C. I. T. 1, Pitt 8.
C. I. T. 1, Johns Hopkins 8.
C. I. T. Q, Georgetown 9.
C; I. T. 6, W. & J. 1. .
Notice
All freshmen interested in 
competing for the job of var
sity football manager should 
report to Milton Dinger at 
the Field House, or to Grad
uate' Manager Ovirend in his 
office, in the Gym before ex. ahis are over. It is neces
sary, that candidates do this 
now, as football camp starts 
almost a month before school 
in the fall and the managers 
must be on hand. The job 
is the most difficult of the 
athletic managerships, b u t 
leads to the coveted major 
varsity C. Every regularly 
enrolled degree student is 
eligible to compete for the 
job of varsity or freshman 
football manager.
NOTICE
All Crow Members, Supervisors, Team Captains, and Student subscription salespeople who wish to avail 
themselves of the opportunity for free scholarship madepossible through tho courtesy of the Leading Magazine Publishers again this year arc rcqusted to apply to the national organizer, M. Anthony Stelle, Jr., Box 211, San Juan, ) Porto Rico, stating qualifications fully.
$5Ass sys a. & sys; isA&
#53 Ps? #53
iij-i O % K M
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes & Mcyran
s?
THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
OFFICERS
C. n. AYLESWOItTII____Vic. Prc.
n. J. MILLER___________Vito PrM,
C. W. EIINI-------------------Asst. Vico Pres.
F. W. COTTON______Asst. Vico Tres.
O. C. YOUNG______:___Asst. Trent.
ADAM ROSCOE_________Asit. See.
BOARD OF ADVISERS
C. It. Aylrsworth 
James II. Clnrk 
John Dlmllng
Win. E. Rcnsn-nnser 
J. Roger* Flannery
L. II. Gothocfor 
C. H. lvcrr
J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. Pew
A. B. Sheets
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
THE GREEKS HAD AWORD 
FOR THEM!
XZESPIO (born with wings)
EXHIBIT A. MERCURY  EXHIBIT B. PEGASUS
- In the best families (or any others for the matter) that doesnt happen nowadays. Hence the United States Air Corps offers some attractive inducements to you college students for whom it has built a $10,000,000 institution at San Antonio, Teiias, where they teach you to fly and while you are learning:
Pay you a salary of $75.00 per month. Pay your living expenses.
Supply you .(free, of course) with snappy, tailor-made, sky blue uniforms.
Grant you the social and military privileges of potential officers.
Pay your traveling expenses from your home to the new field at San Antonio. 700 Men are taken in each year. The course requires a year to complete and includes over 200 hours of solo flying. Those who stay the full year are commissioned as Lieutenants in the Air Corps Reserve.
If you dont like the training you may resign at any time. For example:
Should you stay three months and then resign you will receive $225.00 cash, your round trip expenses from your home to San Antonio, and about 50 hours of solo flying.
The service and associations of the Air Corps gives its members a very real distinction and a very noticeable breadth and poise.
If you have applied and are ready to go, we have compiled information and tips giving you inside angles and dope that will be invaluable when you arrive at the field. If you havent applied yet then by all means get our information. We tell you the entrance procedure and certain twists that make your getting in easier and quicker. The information written by men who have been thru the school covers all points from beginning to end that you are interested in knowing. This information cannot be obtained elsewhere; it is complete. Nothing else to buy. The price is $1.00 or sent C. O. D. if you desire.
NATIONAL AVIATION SERVICE
742 S. HILL ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF.
Youll never see her 
smoking a pipe.
C.nAY
Do Not
Smoke Pipes
T
HE GIRLS havent left us many 
of our masculine rights. They 
fly our airplanes, drive our cars, smoke 
our cigarettes  
but they dont 
smoke our pipes!
Theyve left us 
this one manly 
right, anyway.
A man almost 
has to smoke a 
pipe nowadays. A 
pleasant necessity!
For a pipe filled 
with good tobacco 
is just about the best smoke a man 
could want.
And if youre 
troubled about se
lecting a tobacco, 
remember that 
Edgeworth is 
the popular favor* 
ite in 42 out of 54 
colleges. It some
how seems to fit 
the college mans 
taste. Edgeworth 
is cut especially for pipes, it burns 
slowly, it gives a cool smoke. You 
can buy Edgeworth wherever good 
tobacco is sold. Or, for a special 
sample packet, write to Larus 6c Bro. 
Co., 100 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
EDGEWORTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old burlcys, 
with its natural savor enhanced by Edgeworths distinctive 
and exclusive elev
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any
where in two forms 
EdgeworthReadyRubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slicc. All 
sizes, 155S pocket 
package to 1.50 
pound humidor dn.
For men onlythe oys 
of a pipe.
The Student Bool 
Exchange opens tod 
to buy TextbooksCASH
Keep a Regular
LEAESWOIEDate with Home
hats the use of making a team 
winning the electionpassing 
a testif Mother and Dad dont 
hear of it? Half the fun of college success is 
 sharing it with home.
Heres where the telephone plays its part link
ing campus and home together!
Make it a habit to call up home each week. 
Mother and Dad will be thrilled to hear your 
voiceto share your newsto know alls 
well! Each week theyll be waiting with family 
news, cheery greetings, sound advice.
Theyre a lasting pleasurethese Telephone 
Dates with Homeinexpensive and easy to 
make.C s
FOR THE LOWEST COST 
AND GREATEST EASE
Set your date for after 8.30 P.M., and take ad
vantage of the low Night Rates. (A dollar call is 
60c at night; a 50c call is 35c.)
By making a date the folks will be at home. Thus 
you can make a Station to Station call rather 
than the more expensive Person to Person call.
Just give the operator your home telephone num
ber. If you like, charges can be reversed.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CXWnCIE TARTANrr.snAY. wy 31, 32.
Ube Carnegie (Maib
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN DEVOTED TO THE NIGHT STUDENTS.
GOODBY 1931-32. 
SEE YOU 1932-33.
RADIO TALKSADIEU 1931-32New Tartan StaffAround The CampusSanson etti, 
Chairman Closes 
Successful Year
DIDJA NOTICE(Continued from Page One) 
Things, and September 26, Dr. 
Jennings, Wild Flowers of Late 
Summer and Autumn.
All thijigs have an ending sooner or later, and the college year 1931-32 is no exception. The endings, however, arc not always the same, nd wc thrfo're point with pride to the success of this years work.Starting thfc year with a rather bleak outlook,. registration down, a possibility of a smaller number of active workers to draw from, and the depression constantly before us, wc emerge at the end of the year with hiving accomplished big things in big ways.The call for workers on the' extra curricular activities has been gratifying beyond all expectations. These volunteer workers entered into the spirit which makes for success and the Night Student Council should justly be proud of the work accomplished. No undertaking sponsored by cither the Night Student Council or the three individual colleges has suffered a Setback. New peaks of excellence have been reached. Thus another mile stone has been passed in the procession onward and new impetus has been added for the years to come.Ever mindful of the urgent need of a. suitable students' activitiesbuilding, a place where all extra curricular activities could be centered,the night students, through the members of the Night Student Council have contributd once more a substantial sum to be added to the 1946 Endowment Fund Campaign of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. This manifestation of loyalty to our Alma Mater is indeed commendable.This administration has been considerate in its dealings with our student body, and we thank them for the many privileges which have been placed at our disposal in our endeavor to obtain an education under various handicaps. At times the rules of the institution have seemed severe and harsh, but in the final analysis the results have more than offset the fancied severity, and we have emerged with having surmounted difficulties which make our sacrifices worth while.The Plaid has had a successful year also. Co-operation has beenmet with everywhere, and the night students have been supplied with th complt campus news. Your editor has endeavored in his humble way to meet the demands made upon him from time to time with the limited space available and for any sins of omission which have been 
committed he sincerely solicos forgiveness.It is, therefore, y/ith a feeling of gratitude at having accomplished another successful year which at the outset appeared to have many obstacles, that the activities of the school year 1931 -32 are terminated, and 
the Plaid bids its readers adieu.
Information is gleaned from the 
Tartan that illustrious beauties of 
Forbes Hall arc decorating the 
walls of their smoking room with 
shiny black silhouettes of their 
own classic profiles, in the hope 
that they will revive happy mem
ories in the 3'cars to come, when 
they return to visit their Alma 
Mater. Well, architects have been 
doing the same thing on the walls 
of one of their drafting rooms 
since the days when the aforemen
tioned co-eds were still cute little 
things with curls.
It is a fact that the Arts School 
has the most easily manageable 
set of doors of any building on 
the campus. However, that advan
tage is not always appreciated by 
some students, bccause an easily 
manageable door has been known 
to cause one night Art student a 
moment of extreme embarrass
ment and anguish.
The prize boner ofthe month
was pulled recently at a night Arts 
dinner when several diners were 
observed putting sugar into their 
consomme, mistaking it for hot 
tea.
Photography will be the hobby 
of a well known Tech artist when 
he tours Europe this summer, be
cause his last visit to that conti
nent was made so long ago that
he has forgotten how to sketch 
with water colors.
On the occasion of the re,cent
Carnegie annual exhibition, a visi
tor to an art class was heard to 
remark sarcastically that art stu
dents must be crazy to spend their 
time drawing "a pile of junk. He 
was referring to still life setups 
composed, o f ordinary objects 
which the untrained eye cannot 
appreciate, and which tax the stu
dents skill in drawing, composi
tion and shading.
Now that school sessions are 
over, our only form of entertain
ment since most of us are out of 
jobs, will be the reading of sensa
tional newspaper headlines pro
vided we can gdt the price to pur
chase them. Yes, the Republican 
and Democratic conventions have 
still to convene, and President 
Hoovers piscatorial pleasures will 
make the interesting headlines for 
a week at least.
The Plaid takes this opportunity 
to congratulate the newly-appoint
ed Tartan staff for the coming 
year. It, will be your province to 
guide .the destinies of the college 
newspaper through another year 
of its existence and we assure the 
members of this staff our continuued co-operation in any under
taking which thejr may decide 
upon.
As the years go. by the mutual 
feeling of co-operation and service 
has grown' stronger and stronger, 
solidifying into one.- unit the day 
and night news publication of the 
campus. A big factor of the succcss of this years work has been 
the spirit of co-operation which 
existed on the part of the day 
staff and to this retiring staff 
we extend our appreciation. Your 
work has made possible another 
successful year in college journal
ism. We bid you adieu retiring 
members of 1931-32 staff.
THAT this sheet used a new 
type head last week, pretty smart 
eh what?
THAT looking back at the 
Spring Carnival places this years 
festivities head and sholdcrs above 
any of previous years, and that 
Tar and Feathers show was a 
knockout.
THAT by this time some of us 
have received good jolts in the 
seat since our grades have reach
ed us.
THAT one of those Embarras
sing Moments reported last week 
socked this person right on the 
schnozzel. Am I blushing?
THAT visions of last years 
Book Review came to us as ,we 
read of Powys retirement. Conic 
back Review all is forgiven.
THAT somebody is' holding up 
the awarding of activities keys 
by not making prompt ticket re
turns. Hey you, snap out of it, I 
gotta g6t that key to keep peace 
in the family, maybe.
THAT the weather man in giv
ing us a break while Congress 
refuses to give us beer and in
sists on passing taxes to make 
living more worthwhile (?).
THAT a gang of people en
joyed some rare Wisconsin ham 
the other night, and how.
THAT Dad Manson called off 
the proposed foot race with our 
athletic cripple.
THAT, with this issue, wc say 
Adieu till next year. Remember 
our slogan, With malice toward 
none and razzberries for all.
TI-IAT we wish you a happy, 
prosperous summer and hope to 
see you all again next term.
THAT writing this column has 
been a lot of fun, especially 
when some tried to guess  my 
identity. Hope you enjoyed it as 
much as I did.
THAT thats that and Ill be 
sccnya 1
The 1931-32 social year of the 
Night Student Council has been 
terminated. To many of us this 
termination of activities will bring a 
feeling of regret. The many pleasant 
hours spent at the various functions 
offered on the Night Student Council 
social calendar will be a source of 
pleasant memories.
TYPEWRITERS
All Makes Sold and 
Rented jAre you attending the supplc.ntary term? If not, why not? 
m'rc missing a treat if you .are 
t among those who arc about 
sc nights trying to pull through 
cc long hours of torture in a 
, stuffy cia:^ room instead of 
oying yourself (?) somewhere 
j. Sound paradoxial doesnt it, 
c is it? You see, this is the 
ic of the year when all those 
.pectins pledges to the various 
lionoraries which have just made 
known their selections are cavort
ing about the campuslike what 
j'll leave that to your imagination. 
If you want to have some fun at 
the expense of the poor pledges, 
coinc out some evening and wit
ness the energetic members of I
Eta Pie put the unsuspecting
ledges through their rough house. 
M be a treat. Why the Alpha 
Alpha's >are chasing the Scarlfkc so many Druids that they 
'y know whether Scalp and 
is after them or Delta Skulls 
ini them as victims and as 
'tar Board, well they are 
s the Campus for more
Special Rates to Students
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
Standard Typewriter Go,
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342Lockers Should Be 
Vacated PromptlyCoronaIt is now coming to the time 
when the night student should give 
a thought to the lockers which 
they used during te past year. 
These -Jockers will be used next 
year, and it is important that .the 
contents be removed promptly, 
otherwise when the usual checking 
up time comes the lockers will be 
emptied by the school authorities 
and the contents will be lost to 
the former owners.
A Mid-Summer 
Nights Dream of 
a Night StudentHotel Schenley Coffee 
Shop & Delicatessen
Specializes in Club Breakfast*, 
Table DHote Dinners, 
Plate Luncheons.
JAMES H. SANSONETTI
The success of these parties have 
been due to the able work of James
H. Sansonctti, the Social Chairman in 
charge of this years activities. Into 
110 better hands could the responsibil
ity of guiding the social activities of 
the year been placed. Several inno
vations have been worked out suc
cessfully, and the last dance of the 
season  The Inter-Night College 
Dancewas unique in every respect.
Assisting Mr. Sansonctti was a so
cial committee selected from all the 
colleges which worked willing and 
long 011 every project until success 
crowned their efforts. They had many 
difficulties to surmount and how they 
were surmounted is a tribute to their 
efforts and zeal.
In addition to being Social Chair
man of the Night Student Council, 
Mr. Sansonctti holds a position on 
the Plaid Staff. He is a past presi
dent and a past treasurer of the 
Night Student Council, and has held 
offices in the Night College of Fine 
Arts and Arts Ball Committee. He 
belongs to Nu Sigma Alpha and Pi 
Delta Epsilon honorary fraternities.
When the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology first' opened its doors 
some twenty years ago, if the 
Faculty had been interested only 
in educating and the Students only 
in acquiring knowledge, I wonder 
what our campus would look like 
loda}'. The beauty of the archi
tecture would be so dimmed that 
I doubt if the designer of the 
institute would recognize his work. 
Our lawns would be overgrown 
with brush and weeds of all sorts. 
Student life on the campus would 
also be void of social events, ath
letic meets, and scores of other 
pleasures common to the student 
of today. But this was not the 
case, thanks to those who were 
interested in school life outside 
of giving instruction and acquiring 
knowledge.
There were projects started that 
required the co-operation of all, 
both faculty and student bodies, if 
these undertakings were to advamfc 
from year to year, and each year 
brought new problems to solve. 
The Night Student Council has 
undertaken to help the Alma Matci 
in every way possible and to en
deavor to make night school life 
a little easier for all concerned. 
They have, on numerous occasions, 
received the commendation of the 
faculty for the work they have ac
complished, and it is to those who 
have cqntributed in time and effort 
toward the success of these under
takings that I express my appre
ciation.
The school year 1931-32 has 
closed most successfully for the 
Night Student Council and this 
could have been accomplished only 
by the co-operation of the Faculty 
and all Student groups. To attend 
night school faithfully to a suc
cessful ending is really commend
able, and to those who not only 
accomplish this but contribute to
wards making life a little more 
pleasant for the other fellow is 
worthy of more. The old axiom of 
getting out of life just what you 
put into it still holds good, and to 
know that you have helped ad
vance some project for the Glory 
of Carnegie is a source of satis
faction. The Faculty, the Night 
Student Council members, the Plaid 
Editor and his associates and the 
Social Chairman, together with his 
workers, arc all responsible for 
the success qf the year just ended, 
and I wish to extend my appreciaWell, well, so youre back for an
other year of punishment. Did you 
have a nice summer vacation?
You bet I did. Business was 
great and I made plenty of money, 
so here I am again after more 
knowledge.
Great, lets walk around and sec 
what changes have taken place since 
last spring. I noticed those yellow 
horses that changed to zebras have 
completely disappeared and a wrought 
iron fcncc with a lot of evergreens 
around it has replaced those old eye
sores. Manson tells me that thefence 
was made by the students in the 
forge shop last year. Boy, thats a 
real improvement. '
"Yes it is. It takes time and money 
to accomplish these much needed 
changcs. I was all through the Indus
tries Building last night and noticcd 
several important changcs that were 
pleasant surprises. You rdmcmber the 
antiquated machinery in several of 
the shops, well about half of it has 
been replaced - by modern, efficient 
machinery, and believe me we all 
appreciate that move. And for thoie 
fellows who use the Y room, 
they've gotten some good magazines 
for a changc.
Thats great. John tells me that a 
phone booth has finally been placed 
in Machinery Hall so that the boys 
could make aftcr-class dates without 
having to run over., to Industries and 
losing so much time. He also tells 
me that cmcrgcncy first-aid kits have 
been placcd through the engineering 
buildings and machinery hall.
Say if the}' dont look out things 
will be perfect and then we'll have 
nothing to kick about.
And another thingthe night archi
tects finally got a break. TheyVe 
placed them all in one end of the 
big drafting room and given cach 
student a drawer as well as a locker. 
A table has been assigned to each 
man and woe to the day man who 
dares occupy it after six oclock. But 
the best part of it is that they have 
finally gotten the Crit situation 
down to where its a pleasure to
ie while back I noticed in 
aper that new parking space 
made available for the parkf automobiles on the campus, 
e been looking for this space 
'elieve you me, it is as scarce 
f\s teeth in a duck. I read 
the space was some place 
Woodlawn avenue, but all I 
here is a ball park. Fancy 
-our chariot in the vicinity 
'all diamond. All your 
windows would be 
surely is a problem, 
g you, Ill be one 
udent when they get 
so well in hand on 
hat they will ansolution. I guess 
.ill such time, we will 
grin and gnash our teeth 
sis on the teeth.
work now. Then to make life even 
more pleasant, all the wash rooms arc 
constantly supplied 'with soap and 
towels so that the artists can make 
a clean drawing without smearing 
everything with charcoal dust.
"Hooray! Im going to enjoy com
ing to school now. But theres one 
more change needed then things 
would be complete,, so I would like 
to suggest that they get rid of . . .
Hey, lazybones,' get up out of 
that bed or youll be late for work 
again.
Ah heck, a guy can't even have a 
dream without someone spoiling 
everything.
Located in Schenley Apts. 
3957 Forbes St.
3806 FORBES STREET 
STUDENT SUPPLIES
25 per cent off on all FOUNTAIN PENS over $5.00
.ving facilities on the campus 
d be something akin to a 
cr without matches. Not pos? Well, I saw such a thing 
cn in the not very distant 
Sure, they were able to 
omc tlie situation by sliding 
: lights to the other smokers 
ic party and all gilded well, 
mid solve the parking prob' putting in a sliding roadong Langly Lab. The cars 
nc driven on the roadway 
mic sort ofmechanism 
:d to .slide the machines inl.ab so that the mechanics 
department could, tunc up 
notpr and give it a once 
and retur.n it to you after 
I hope all my cohorts in 
cring won't rush up with a 
of solution for the problem 
s is my idea and I intend to 
a working model and submit 
the Dead Letter Office in the 
it 'Department for conccs1-Iope Mr. Orban wont get
A little over a week ago all the 
students of Carnegie were afforded 
the opportunity of attending a 
campus activity which will go down 
in history as being the most-outT 
standing event ever held on the 
campus. The whole setting of the 
affair was ideal, weather, spirit of 
co-opcration, special appeal of the 
activities offered, all played an im
portant part in making the tradi
tional Campus Carnival a glowing 
success.
Much credit for the success of 
this function is due to Willard C. 
Holloway and his able committee 
and their assistants. They have ac
complished a wonderful success and 
to them will the students of next 
year be indebted for the return of 
the Spring Carnival.Co rnao 
queoraon roo 
revealang 
for other cigarettes?
, we have depression here; 
't Puppet sold at depression 
s and didnt they issue a De
ion number, bones and all? I 
ed reading Puppet and hope 
e other night students did, 
It filled my many idle nights 
'-asant moments and I recthe college magazine to 
e who have the price.
tion and congratulations to thtse 
and all who aided in any way to 
make success possible. I also sin
cerely hope that those who return 
to school in the fall will continue 
their council work aind that a 
large number of new students will 
also become interested in the phase 
of school life other than study.
William R. Hoddcr.
INSTALL STUDENT
(Continued from Page One) 
The assistant treasurers which 
have been held over on council 
for another year are Robert Robin
son and Al Davis.
FOR RENT
are entering the last lap of 
and it wont be long until 
us will have left the campus 
c year 1931-32. Was it .a 
fearwell, I suppose it was 
ny respects at least, if not 
But who wants to be a.
I dont.
Single room for Carnegie 
student attending summer
school. Private home, on
Neville street. Call May
flower 9030.
VVTE do not criticize others. We merely 
W call your attention to the fact that the 
vital subject of inhaling has been generally 
avoided in cigarette advertising.
Why? Whats there to be afraid of? Every* 
body inhales! Seven out of ten smokers inhale 
knowinglythe other three do so without 
realizing it. From your sideyou want to be 
sure that the smoke you breathe in is pure 
and cleanfree from certain impurities.
But from the manufacturers sidehe 
should be sure of giving you this protection. 
And if he is surehe need not worry about 
the question: "Do you inhale?
Lucky Strike has dared to raise this vital 
question ... bccause certain impurities con
cealed in even the finest, mildest tobacco 
leaves are removed by Luckies famous puri
fying process. Luckies created that process. 
Only Luckies have it!
CASH PAID FOR USED 
TEXT BOOKS
Whether Now Used Here or Not
GEORGE A. PILLSBURY
623 IVY STREET MA. 76*3
PITTSBURGH, PA.
% COMMISSION
to any Carnegie student seg student orders for phototB at
O.BRECKON Studio
bes Building, Oakland
UCED RATES NOW IN EFFECTFirst Church of Christ
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening Testimony Meeting At 8:00 P. M.___________
ROOMS FOR 'ENTS AT SUMMER SCHOOL. Either Siimi? or Douhlr. 
Ren.ionnhlc Rntes.)RDES, NEAR WOODLAWN Phono MA. 2178
..........-...-.-....President.Vice President and Cashier
--------------------Assistant Cashier
..-^..-Aisiatant Cashier
--------------------Assistant Cashier----------------------------Trust Officer
ent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
>LL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student RatesYour. Throat Protection - against irritation - againit totigk
0. K. AMERICA
TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE60 modern minutes with the world: finest dance orchestras, and 
famous Lucky Strike news features, everyTuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening crverN. B. C. networks.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone : 
LANTIC 3595
Residence Phone# 
EVERGLADE 0918

---------------------------------------------------

PA'GE HTCTRTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Canwgar Saraarr
Editor-in-Chicf  
Business Manager.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
After Office Hours Call 
.Linden 7038-J Sports Editor 
..........Hazel 9473 Plaid Editor____
Schcnley 9580 
.....Schenley 2389
Published weekly during the college year by undergraduates of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Office as second-class matter.
THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chief 
JOHN W. LADD
Manager Editor 
ROY L. GRANT
Business Manager 
JULIUS HALPERN
News Editor 
altJu139C im3ltr3m
Copy 
yollM GlltBog 
'CmtB9tg3 s3tdCoT
Athletic Editor 
hoB3HC C. AmogBog 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Heads 
DummM Dov3m 
. -T9C iCtlltHB
Plaid Editor 
anvumn arr Lcyoguln
Exchanges 
LumIomM yoTdC3m9M 
D3gmt399u S93tg13md
LumM EovgB3gnV Alumni Editor Gg9CogM 'umgOul3V Assigment Editor 
angu i3umBogV Cartoonist
JOSEPH ADAMS ANTHONY CACCHIONE LORETTA CONLIN MELVIN FRANK
JUNIOR EDITORSALICE HENZI JOHN HILTZ EDMUND MCCORMICK
GEORGE MYERS GENEVIEVE ROSE JACQUES MINNOITE ROSEMARY SAXTON
ATHLETIC STAFF
X ,lomtu NlooBV Womens Editor
JOHN LOWES JAMES HALFERTYNED F. STIRLING
CIRCULATION STAFF
2tlltuR UtgdluBBV Manager
A. PRYCE-JONES 
C." 3. CHADWICK
PLAID STAFF
J. Dr SugBog39oV News Editor
H. E. MCGANNOX FRANK CASSELA. N. EVENS
ADVERTISING STAFF
James E. Stahl, Manager 
WM. WALDMAN, Ase't ManagerL. KANNENBERG W. SANVARY
M. GARMISEW. MCKENNA
REPORTERSJ. C. CARR .1. LIVINGSTON H. SCHWARTZ C. MANDKOSS M. GRIFFIN.
V. KI.OOS A. LADD V. COOPER T. SHELLEY G. BREAKSTONE E. SHERMAN
J. HENDERSON P. PAULUS It. COHEN H. BAER P. BEVAN J. BLACK
M. MALAKOFF E. DALZELI.G. HADDOCK R. GUSTAFSON J. MILLER
LUCILLE JACOBS
SIECIAL WRITERS
STANTON WILLIAMS MARY MCCULLOUGH
TYPISTSANN KAUFMAN MARIAN MCNARY ANN WARDEN
To an impartial recording of all campus news 
To inaugurate and uphold Carnegie traditions 
To support all student activities 
To specifically work for a student activities build
ing, better club rooms, and a combined adver
tising agency for all school publications.
In Honor of the Retiring Staff
THE RETIRING STAFF
Harry D. Kolb, Editor-in-Chief., 
Edward Steiner, Business Manager. 
Mary Hauser, Managing Editor. 
Nancy Sloan, News Editor. 
Gertrude Novak, Exchange Editor.
Vincent McBride, Associate Editor. 
Zorclda Mazza, - Associate Editor. 
Howard Maxwell, Assignment Editor. 
Joseph Michnclson, Athletic Editor. 
Elizabeth Lillcy, Women# Athletics.
A great deal, of credit: is due the retiring members of 
the Tartan staff for the untiring efforts and whole
hearted spirit they have given to Tartan work during their 
years at Carnegie.  They have made many innovations and 
have attributed much thought and foresight to student 
problems. They have instigated and promulgated ideas 
which have helped to make the Tartan an inclispensible 
institution at Carnegie. The inspiration they leave for the 
new staff will do much to enable it to carry on the tradi
tions which have been established over a number, qf years.
The new staff wishes each member of the retiring staff 
the utmost success in lifethe same success that each, one 
has achieved in college life, multiplied many times.
* * * *
Theta Tau Engineering Award
The honor of being the first student to receive the 
Theta Tau Engineering Award, which is given to the out
standing engineering student who shows the most promise , 
of bringing honorto his Alma Mater, by his attainments as 
anengineer, goes to Sidney Krasilc, a member of the gradu
ating class from the Department of-'ElectricalEngineering. 
Mr. Krasiks 'selection by the faculty of .the College of 
Engineering on the .basis of distinguished scholarship, 
engineering ability,, breadth of. interest, unselfish activity, 
leadership, integrity, apd dependability and regularity is'a 
high tribute to his attainments while at Carnegie. .
*./.*_ * *
Join the Alumni Federation
For the past several weeks, the Carnegie Alumni Fed
eration, a federation of the alumni associations of the Col
lege of Engineering, College , of Industries, College of Fine 
Arts, and Margaret 'Morrison Carnegie College, has been 
campaigning for new members among members . of . the 
graduating class in an effort to add to the ranks of organ
ized alumni. Each year the question is raised, Whyshould 
I join the Alumni Federation?
The purpose of the federation is to band together or
ganized alumni and to maintain alumni interest in campus 
activities. Inasmuch as the federation is solely self-sup
porting, a fee of two dollars is charged for which each 
member receives the Tartan and the Carnegie Alumnus, as 
well as notices of athletic contests and various other campus 
affairs, for a period of one year. An annual reception for 
seniors is Jield by one of the associations of the federation. 
Active Alumni Clans exist in many of the principle cities 
of the country.
It behooves every member of .the graduating class to 
join the Federation, for it is through the interest manifested 
by members of the graduating classes that it is possible 
to add strength to an already strong alumni federation.
* * * *
Will a Golf Team Materialize?
The interest shown in the first invitation golf tourna
ment held recently at the Pittsburgh Field Club by the 
Athletic Association is indicative of the possibility of estab
lishing an intercollegiate golf team at Carnegie next fall. 
There is no reason-Why C.arnegie could not place a winning 
team in the intercollegiate field, if proper coaching were 
provided. There is certainly enough student interest in 
this sport to warrant Sts' inclusion among those already 
sponsored at Carnegie.* * * *
Carnegies first fencing match held last Saturday eve
ning in the gymnasium suggests another sport which 
might be added to t(iose on the campus.* * * *
The fickleness and gullibility of human beings are 
evidenced at one of the freak shows at Coney Island where 
for ten cents Mrs. Jack Diamond will tell anyone what a 
fine fellow the notorious gangster was. The" asininitv of 
of such demonstration shows clcarlv that the public will 
pay for the sensational. It is a pity that the gangster has 
risen to such a high place in our supposedly civilized life 
that he is the object ofsuch homage.
TUESDAY, MAY .11, 1932.
FROM THE FENCE
Co-eds Crash Thru
A number of Tcchs fair co-cds "made the Pittsburgh Press, magazine section of Sunday last. The adjoining scrcamcdpagenvo r c ballyhoo of the Inside Story of the Capone Gang's Citadel. The article was of the same type of stuff that all such maga.zines arc crammed with. We learn that the information was gathered last fall and that the idea was the brain child of some of the lads from one of our biegest cup collecting fraternities.* * * *
Seniors TreatedThru the courtesy of the Engineering Alumni Association the seniors enjoyed a .delightful free dance at Thistle . Hall last Saturday eve. Willie Ryahanck and his boys furnished the usual fine music. Isn't that drummer the cutest thing? . . . Looked as tho there were as many alumni there as seniors. .... Do these P. C. W. girls rate?  At least half a dozen present and accounted for. ... Several of the Tar and Feathers hits were'rendered by the orchestra. Two days after the show Harry Funk in New York played the very keen Waiting for the Moon. . . . Such a jam as there is at .the end of a dance on the stairs to the dpor! There shpttld be another means of exit. Imagine, the jam and confusion in case of a fire with existing con
ditions. . . .* * * *
The Thistle
At least this years Thistle didnt liayc half a dozen false starts before its real debut. The name being illustrated in a Thistle symbol makes it so simple that even a child can read it. Very nice nevertheless. The airplane view of everything in general that is found inside the cover is the best idea yet. The collection of tinusualphotographs that grace the front' part of the book are extraordinarily good. . The information supplied below the pictures is news to many of us. The Senior Section was crammed to the tune ofa dozen per page. The miniature senior pictures - arc no worse than usual. Typographical errors and mixtures are unusually few. The class officers were accorded considerable room for their minor importance. Plentyof power to the night school, lads who attain a degree^ they deserve it. The football section lacked the graphic record of games that have been featured before. With the smaller pages organization's were' stung $25 per page whereas formerly many could well do with a $15 half page. It seems that Plcbe Regulations, Football Practice, and the Pajama Parade are the only Features of . Carnegie. Tech. As a whole, the book was average
among Thistles but rather inferior to year books put out more reasonably by no bigger nor better schools than Carnegie,* * * *
Improvements
During the past year Carnegie has seen more  than usual in improvements. The finest piece of work is Thistle .Hall which is really something to swell our chest about. It has made school dances immeasurably nicer. . . . The new concrete walk to Engineering Hall is a great help. . . . The improvement in the Birch Hall steps was greatly needed* and the boardwalk beside the Hall is still awful. . . .Theimproved and expanded parking ground beside Machinery Hall is a great boon and the glorified junk yard is at least niccr looking. . .. The new athletic field has afforded the boys room for outdoor sports and parking space for Exhibition Nitc visitors. . . The crying need for the near future is to erase the old eyesores perpetuated by. .our famous war relics, the Hut and the Commons. -They surely dont harmonize with the architecture of our other buildings. The Commons Avas creeled in 10 days 15 years ago and looks it. Just the location for a fine Activities Building. The Hut has just been'given a new coat of paint to preserve its venerable timbers. Something more like the usual run of Carnegie Libraries would fit that spot - ever much better. . . . Then, of course, lots of other things like concrete walks from Forbes Annex to the Cut Walk and from the Forbes street dorms to the Inn and one of the D. U.s. ...These things may be accomplished by the time our children are going to some other school. . . .
Local Girls Make Good
Launched by their hit performances at the Coronation and in Tar and Feathers the soon famous song team of Mary Dingfclder and Helen Keefe was started on its way. An audition by live Warner Brothers is in order. They sang with Kay Kcyscrs orchestra at the Schenley Hotel last Saturday nitc. And how they sang! . . . Loads of luck! . . .* * * *
Cheerio
With this issue we hop from our perch On the Fence and start on a solo flight, here, there and elsewhere .One of the best pearls of advice cast before the Seniors was by Dr. Schocn who scz, If youstart to getd o w n h e a rtcd and take yourself too seriously just look in a mirror, you cant help but laugh. No doubt. . . . So heres the best of luck to you all, always! . . . Cheerio! ...
To the students who have participated in the activities under the Student Council gold and silver activities keys are being awarded. The gold jeweled keys are awarded.to the.officers of the various campus activities for four years work. An award of a gold key is made for four years' participation, while a silvfir key is given for two years of active engagement.
Those activities for which keys arc given are: Tartan, Puppet,Tri-Publications, Thistle, Glee Club, Kiltie Band, and Student Council. 
This year15 gold jeweled keys, 26 gold keys, and 102 silver keys were awarded.
The following is ,thc list of those who received keys and the organizations in'which they were earned:
Gold Jeweled Keys
Hal Brennan Student Council
Harvey Collins Puppet, Student
. Council
James Corrigan Student Council
[Willard Iloilo way Student Council
Jack Horning Student Council,
Tri-Pub.
Wcndel Jones Band
Edward Keller Student Council
Miles Kinlcy Puppet
Raymond Knopf Student Council
Harry Kolb Tartan
Rosalind Mitshclen Student Council;
Edward Steiner Tartan
Elide Schweitzer Glee Club 
Mary Stephany Student Council.
Sam Wilson Student Council,
Thistle
Gold
William Conway 
Jane Croylc 
TedEstabrook 
Mary Hauser
RogerIngham 
William Kramer 
FredLatham : 
James Leonard 
Howard Maxwell  
Zorelda Mazza 
Vincent McBride 
Lois McGregor 
J. McKhight 
J. Michaelson - -
A. Miller 
Mary Milligan 
JackMorri.
Floy Morrison  
Gertrude Novak 
JosephPock 
Marvin Potts 
Dorothy Pritchard 
Edward Reister 
Nancy Sloan 
William Spangler 
Paul Wile.
Keys
Puppet
StudentCouncil 
Kiltie Band 
Tartan, Puppet 
Glee Club 
Band
Glee Club . 
Studen: Council 
Tartan 
Tartan
Puppet, Tartan 
Student Council 
Band 
Tartan 
Glee Club
Student Council 
BandTri-Pub.
Tartan 
Band 
Puppet 
Tri-Pub. 
Student Council 
Tartan 
Band 
Puppet, Tartan 
Silver Keys
Joseph Adams 
Dolly Allison 
George Anderson 
Ronald Austin 
Anne Baker 
John Barker 
Mildred Benn 
Ada Billson 
William Bostick 
J. Brammcr 
Frances Brown 
Harold Cadmus 
Charles Chadwick 
Loretta Conlin 
Joseph Corbett 
Alan Davis
Fred Davis 
Sydney Dancoff 
James Drury 
Wm. Dobnikoff 
BrandlcyEdelblut 
Woods Elliot
Tartan
Tri-Pub.
Tri-Pub.
Tri-Pub.
Glee Club
Band
Glee Club
Glee Club
Band
Glee Club
Glee Club
Thistle
Tartan
Tartan
Band
Thistle, Student 
Council 
Puppet 
Tartan 
Tartan
Student Council. 
Student Council 
Puppet
Bernhard EversonBand
Wm. FinglassTartan
Jeannette FischclGlee Club .
James FoxPuppet
Melvin FrankTartan
Sarah FriedmanPuppet
Evelyn GambleGlee Club
Olive GarlandGlee Club
Ammon Godshall ^Tri-Pub.
John E. GrayKiltie
Mary H. GreenTri-Pub.
Paul GustafsonBand
Clarcncc GriggsBand
James HalfertyTartan
Harvey HarrodTri-Pub^ Band
Wilmii HeckertGlee.Club  
Hicc iicrtzi-Tartan  
Jack HiltzTartan, Student 
Council
Marjorie HoldenTri-Pub.
Jane HookeyGlee Club
Fred HoytThistle
Louis KargesThistle
Jules KarpasGlee Club
Anne KaufmannStudent Council ;
Gloria KloosThistle ,
Paul KocncmundBand.. '
John KronenbcrgStudent CouncilGertrude LandisGlee Clu,b
Jack Lo'wcsTartan '
Christine LeighouTartan 
Elizabeth LillcyTartan
Frank LcnthherGlee Club
George. MyersTartan
Roger MiddlekaufPuppet
B. MillerStudent CouncilDorothy MillerGlee Club
B. MithchcllTri-Pub.Wm. J. MooreBand  .
Dorothy Morse' Glce-Club -
Edmund'MfcCormickTartan'
Mary McCulloughTartan
Wm. McDermottBand
Margaret McKelvey Tri-Pub.
T. McMahonGlee Club
Howard Nielson.Tartan.
Jacques Minnotte.Glee Club
J. Henry OSheaGlee Club
Varissa PayneGlee Club
,A. Pryce JonesTartan
Katherine ReamerGlee Club
Edward RhodesThistle; Tri-Pub.
JeanRitzelTartan, Student 
Council
Dorothy Rodgers,Glee Club
Genevieve RoseTartan
Leonard Rosenberg PuppeL
George RowanBand
Rosemary SaxtonTartan, Puppet
Stephen ScherbaTri-Pub.
Silvia SconzaGlee. Club
Margaret SeibertStudent Council
Dorothy ShultzStudent Council
Wm. A. Smith .Puppet
Wm. 0. SmythPuppeJ.
James StahlTartan
Emil StankcyTartan
Forde SteeleBand
Louis SquiticriThistle, Tri-Pub.
B. SummervilleGlee Chili '
Wilfred UffclmanGlee Club
Alex UrbaitisBand
Neal VinsonBand
Uancy WardPuppet
Alma WeiseGlee.Club .
Katherine WholeyStudent Council
Sam WicksTartan
Mary WilhelmGlee Club
Louise WilliamsGlee ClubIra WilliamsonTartanCarl YoheBand
Ruth Cra.vforiGlee Club
ORGANIZATIONS
(Continued from Page One)
Bostick, F. N. Davis," W. B. Edelblut, H. 13. Pressman and N. 1^. Stirling.
Short Course Elections
The College; of Industries Short 
Coursfc students recently elected 
their officers. for the coming year. 
They are: President, Howard I. 
Zippcrnian; Vice President, Frank 
Monvian; Secretary,. Patrick Fit? 
sirnmonfc; Treasurer, Robert Lagcrnait; Senate Representative, John Feyat.
Cwens
At a meeting' of the Cwcn 
pledges last Tuesday, officers were 
elected for the year 1932-1933. 
They arc: President, Eleanor Sher
man; Vice President, Veronica 
.Kloos; Secretary, Virginia Siegal; 
Treasurer, Madolin Vautrinot, and 
Social Chairman, Thelma Shelley.
Rough initiation for the new 
Cwens took place Friday at 4:30. 
The pledges were formally accept
ed into the honorary at the Cwcn 
dinner Saturday evening in Mar
garet Morrison Recreation Hall.
A. S. C. E.
Officers for next year were 
elected by, the Carnegie Chapter of 
the American Society of Civil En
gineers at the regular weekly 
meeting last week.
Those .electedwere:, John Clihgcrman, President; Charles Moyer, 
Vice President: Emery Hoke, Sec
retary; and V. L. Fle<;kenstinc, Treasurer] .
Social Work Club
The Social Work Club held its 
annual banquet on Saturday, May 
14, at El Tower. Apartments. Com
munism was the theme of the eve
ning. Among the faculty members 
present were Mrs. Burnett, Miss 
Meyer, Miss McBride, Miss Eincrt 
and Dr. and Mrs. Schaffer.
Secretarial Club
The Secretarial Club has elected 
the following officers to serve for 
next year: Betty Schum, President 
Sarah Patterson, Vice President; 
Henrietta Steinberg, Secretary; 
Alice Hcinzi, Treasurer, and Mar
jorie Stout, Social Chairman.
Phi Mu Alpha
Phi Mu Alpha held the semi
annual formal initiationon May 23, 
when four men were inducted into
The Student Book 
Exchange opens today 
. to buy Textbooks for
CAS H
On The Way To Success
For over sixty years we have been helping young people with their financial affairs and showing them how a sound banking connection aid them on the way to success. Your future prosperity depends on thrifty habits in spending and 
saving; a bank account will teach you to handle money wisely and will give you a foundation of experience in 
financial transactions. We welcome student accounts regardless of size.
Mellon National Bank
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Sidney Krasik Chosen 
Outstanding Engineer; 
Gets Theta Tau Award
(Continued from Page One) 
mittcc and Director Mott select the 
student to be honored. The name 
of the student is engraved on a 
plaque which will be hung at the 
entrance of the Administration 
building. This year the award was 
made by Doctor Baker at the 
qualification cxcrcises during the 
Spring Carnival.
JOURNALISTS
(Continued from Page One) 
Publications, were formally given 
membership into Pi Delta Epsilon. 
The men honored were Charles F. 
Blockingcr, Ammon B. Godshall, 
Roy L. Grant, Julius HalpCrn, 
William R. Hodder, John L. Kroncnberg, John W. Ladd, William C. 
Lazuras, Roger D. Middlekauf, 
Robert E. Robinson, John F. 
Simpson, James E. Stahl and Emil 
G. Stankcv.
The contest conducted among 
the various Pittsburgh high school 
publications will close this week 
when cups and qthcr prizes will 
be awarded. The winners have not 
been selected yet.
DOCTOR BAKER
(Continued from Page One) 
selected to succeed Dr. Hatnmcrsclilag. IJe received his A.B. de
gree from Johns Hopkins Univer
sity in 1891 and his Ph.D. from the 
University of Leipzig, in 1895. In 
1924; lie received his LL.D. from 
the University of Delaware, and 
in 1928 Duquesne University con
ferred. upon him the Sc.D. degree. 
This year Lafayette College in 
Eastoii, Pa., will confer an honor
ary .Doctor of Science degree.
NEW HEADS ARE 
CContinucd from Pane One) 
ganizations on the campus raise a 
fund, may be used again this 
year. This year the* organization 
sponsored a benefit performance by 
Angna Enters, mimist and dancer.
The Womens Scholarship Or
ganization is composed of repre
sentatives of all the womens clubs 
and honorary societies. Its pur
pose is to raise enough money 
each year to award scholarships 
of $100 to ten deserving girls from 
Margaret Morrison and Arts 
School.
membership in the organization. 
The men who at this time were 
offered membership arc John Dippold, Edward E. McDonald, Domi
nic Smiley and Paul , l^penemund. 
A banquet was served at file Fair
fax Hotel to members, following 
w4iich a meeting and election of 
officers for the coming yciir was 
held. 1 The fraternity elected Rich
ard Drydcn, president; Fred Ford) 
vicc president, Edward Jolfc, secre
tary,, and John Dippold, treasurer1.
Annual Alumni 
Drive Enters
Third Week
(Continued from Page Otic) 
you as a student and arc interest
ed in your career. To be a mem
ber of an alumni group indicates 
a sense of appreciation and loyalty 
toward your College, and a spirit 
of interest and comradeship to
ward those with whom you were 
associated as a student.
Dean Kccblc, chairman of tljc Col
lege of Fine Arts Faculty Urges 
the graduating class to join the 
Alumni Federation promptly. This 
is not alone for the benefit of re
duced rates. If a gap is oticc per
mitted between the alumnus and 
his college, it is very apt to grow 
wider, and the continuing associa
tion of teacher with pupil is too 
important on both sides to be 
lightly sacrificcd.
Join for mutual profit. A di
ploma from the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology is an asset of 
value to every graduate. You can 
increase the value of this asset 
by helping to advance your Alma 
Mater and improve her reputation. 
There is no better way for you 
to do this than through^ member
ship in your Alumni Association, 
A. C. Jewett, Director of the Col
lege of Industries, states.
The following list includes the 
Carnegie students who have tluis 
far joined the Alumni Association:
Margaret Accipiter, Evelyn 
Anderson, - Charles A. Bcrghanc, 
James Bissct, Elmer Braun, Ruth 
Brooks, Harold J. Cohen, Iiarvey 
Collins, William Conway, Francis 
P. Dill, Helen Dove, Edw. C. 
Estabrooke, Leonard Farnnan, Wil
liam J. Gosling, Harry C. Goodall, 
Mary Graft, Mary Green, Elsie 
Guggenheim, Albert J. Haskcns, 
Mary Hauser, Albert E. Hayman, 
Ethel Hcimcrt, Mabel Hover, 
Irwin G. Jalonack, Thelma Laylandcr, Rosemary Lynch, Sylvia 
Lyon, Paul S. Marthcns, Susan 
Maxwell, and Jcanc Mazwell.
Lois E. McGregor, Adelaide McCloslcey, John D. McKenzie, Mary 
McICcon, Bernard D. Metalits, 
Mary L. Milligan, Sara Mitchell, 
Rosalind Mitschclcn, Joseph A. 
Musgrovc, Muriel Norton, Gertrude 
Novak, Walter Olszewski, J. 
H. OShea, Marjorie Patterson, 
Dorothy Pritchard, Mary Ross, 
Aileen G. Russell, Frances Schnei
der, II. Schultz, D. W. Seville, 
Jean Shirk, Fannie Silvcrblatt, 
Katherine Simon, Martha G. Slick, 
Elsa Stcinbart, Frank J.- Stengel, 
Mary. ;B.r Stophany.
Isabel Taylor, Edith Turner, 
Ellen Van cler Voort, Logan A. 
Webster, J. Milton Wege, Mar
garet Whitaker, Mildred White, 
Sydney Winijcoff, Louis J. Wittko, 
Esther  Wohlgemuth, ' and P. L. 
Worley,
APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
tTnIEC.E TA_VI. iEcEnTL.OIP S.LLYr_nCWP STJ
I desire to become a member of the Carnegie Alumni Federation, and wish to take advantage of the special rate for seniors, which I understand to be $2.00 if paid before June 15, 1932,
Name ..................................................................................__-...............
Present Address ...................................... .....---------------------------------------
Home Address__________________________._________________,
Attached is check...-..............cash......for my alumni dues for theyear July 1, 1932, to June 30, 1933.
Indicate College from which you arc graduating:
? Engineering ? Arts ? Industries ? M. M,
Dues may be paid to class agent or at Alumni Office, 206 Gymnasium.
After June 14, 1932, the regular $3.00 dues rate will be effective. 
LMR rRo, N-s ,R eRRF In LRUGM No,M :RUD tRyylwlhTA_VI. VEVrEnYW.S.
Let 'em thumb fheir waif
You ride in comfort
... and be dollars ahead
When you go home this vacation, park 
yourself in the deep cushions of a Grey
hound bus chair^the kind that leans 
'way back when you touch a button.
Rolling through cool breezes to the 
home town, you can afford to pity the 
boys who decided to hitch-hike it . . , 
for theirs is a full measure of trouble and expense.
Will you save dollars? And how! Get 
right up, go to your Campus Agent or 
nearest Greyhound officesec how low 
the fares, how convenient the schedules.
GREYHOUND BUS STATION 
A.rEnL: TaEI_E TL CnTIL YLnEEL m 
SMRkRg CD-k, *fHH
LOW 
ONE-WAY FARES 
TenOI vBJHH
tAEaEATIc BJv
cELnO.L JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ pJHH
7OWIYLONI Jv
Y_Ir_n: JJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJJ pJ6H
:O_ICYLONI  mJfv
SW.ATcEASW.T JJJJJJJJJ *JHH
NTYW.ICLOI fJHH
tOA_Vr_Y  6JvH
cT:LOI  vJvH
GREY/HOUND
Carnegie Men 
Will Attend 
R. O. T. C. Camp
(Continued on Page Four) 
Missouri School of Mines, and 
Penn State.
Camp Dix, New Jersey, is the 
scene of the summer camp for the 
Signal Corps, which seven students 
from Carnegie arc planning to at
tend. Camp Dix opens on June 
19 and lasts until July -30. Men 
in the Signal Corps arc also paid 
for devoting their summer to con
structive work.
McCormick Elected 
Delta Skull Presidei
Edmund McCormick, a sophomr in the Department of Printing w 
elected president of Delta Skull, ji 
ior honorary society at a formal bs 
quct and initiation of next yef 
chapter at the Hotel Schenley, Thu 
day evening, May 26. Samuel Wie 
a sophomore in the Department 
Printing was named sccretary-trti 
urer in the same election.
Both Mr. McCormick and A1. 
Wicks had been called to Delta Skiihv-, 
t the Qualification Day Exercises 
during the Spring Carnival. The new 
president is a member of Theta Xi 
social fraternity and Mr. Wicks is 
a member of Sigma Nu. . .i. \\
The initiation of twelve new men 
was conducted by members of this 
years chapter of Delta Skull. The 
officers recently elected will assum 
office next year when those cal' 
will form the active chapter. ;
Salvation Army to Make 
Drive For Maintenance
The Salvation Army has' 
Carnegie Tartan to rcmii 
readers that June 11 will li 
day in the Armys annual dri^ 
maintenance funds. The total) 
need to maintain the Army's 
ous relief and social services 
at $112,500.
Salvationist officials cxpr 
the hope that a number of 
students, particularly fromj 
young womens ranks, wouldl 
tribute personal efforts on tag 
Those who desire to donate 
service should see Capi' 
Vaughn, Salvation Arnv' 
levard of the Allies, 1 
3960.
CASH PAID Ft.
TEXT BOC
Whether Now Used Ho,
GEORGE A. PILLSBU
In one shoi 
Summer
under the auspir.es of : 
PF.IV1VSYI.VAIVIA RAILIt 
GRIIAT XOItTHEKN II AH I.
AMEIUCAN MAIL B.HX. 
INTOUniST (SOVIET eDIee 
SWEDISH AMERICAN I.I 
TnOS. COOK & SOJV, ET;
Tour the entire world    w 
your summer vacation ... 
comfortably! Special boat 1 
to Seattle . ; . cross the mi 
Pacific to JAPAN . . . CIIIN/ 
MANCHURIA in the Pal 
President Cleveland ol 
American Mail Line sailing i 
Seattle July 9. Thence by sri 
de-luxe train of theTrans-Silx 
Railroad.
TWO WEEKS IIV HUS
Through steppes and Goj 
cities and the new industri, 
gions of Siberia arid the Ur 
MOSCOW . . . and LENINC! 
Then STOCKHOLM, CO* 
HACEN and BERLIN.
$1,280
plus rail furo in America
Ini/uirt jnr uvrld map ami compiti ilii
AMERICA 
MAIL BJN
601 Fifth Avenue, New York
T)o*ton Philadelphia WnnhinRton C Portland, Ore. Seattle Cleveland J 
or youc local agent 
