Remember - Educom '87 in Los Angeles...Be there. 
Thanks for attending this year and have a safe trip home.
The Tartan
Special IssueCarnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 13,1986
Jobs announces grant to EDUCOM
PITTSBURGH, November 12 - Steven 
Jobs, President of NeXT, Inc., announced 
today that his organization was making an 
unsolicited contribution of $50,000 to 
BDUCOM's Software Initiative. The 
initiative is addressing the special problems 
colleges and universities face in the devel>pment, distribution, and use of software.
Jobs made his announcement at the 
annual conference of EDUCOM, a 
nonprofit association of 450 college and 
miversity members with 60 corporate 
ssociates, that serves as a resource for highr education institutions that want to learn 
.iiore about current and emerging trends in 
.formation technology. "EDUCOM is the 
;y organization taking a leadership role 
it he software problems facing coleges and 
ommercial companies alike. There are
isolated examples of working models but 
no real focal point to bring the varying 
interests together to address issues of con
cern to us all," said Jobs.
The contribution to the Software 
Initiative is being made in two parts: 
$25,000 to support the Initiative generally 
and $25,000 to support Academic Software 
Awards to recognize achievements in aca
demic software. It is Jobs' belief that one of 
the most effective ways to influence 
software development is to provide in
centives for faculty in the form of financial 
an dother rewards since there are few other 
incentives in the university environment 
William Arms, Chairman of BDUCOM'S 
Board of Trustees, accepted the contribution 
by saying, "The Software Initiative is an
important new development and continues 
to place EDUCOM in the forefront of 
critical issues in higher education. It is a 
role the organization is perfectly positioned 
to carry out"
Steven Gilbert, Director of the EDUCOM 
Software Initiative, echoed Arms' remarks. 
"I am delighted that we have the support of 
the corporate sector. This is especially so 
as we are just now beginning to organize 
our fundraising effort. This contribution 
will enable us to continue the Initiative 
and to build on the momentum we have 
already generated among faculty and ad
ministrators."
The Chairman of the Software Committe 
for EDUCOM, Thomas W. West added 
that NeXt's Initiative contribution fits very 
well with the Committee's plans for raising
Apple targets writing skills
With computers playing an increas
ingly important role in education en
vironments, Apple Computers Inc., is 
confident that it will maintain a major 
role in the education market "We feel 
that we really understand the needs of 
higher education," says Bud Colligan, 
Apple's marketing director for higher 
education, "and that is, I think, what 
differentiates us from other companies." 
Apple currently enjoys a 70% market 
share of the K-12 education market 
One area of education commanding a 
large portion of Apple's attention is the 
discipline of writing and composition. 
Apple breaks down the process of 
writing into three stages: pre-writing, 
writing and rewriting. Several programs 
falling into one of these areas are 
currently on the market 
Software for prewriting helps students 
to generate ideas, organize notes and 
design outlines. Such programs include 
Acta, developed by Symmetry Corp
oration; Think Tank 512, by Living 
Videotext; The Labor Tool, developed 
by Arborworks, Inc. and the Computer 
Writing Resource Kit developed by
D.C. Heath Company.
Acta can be used by students as a 
prewriting tool to create outlines and 
organize topics. It can also be used to 
analyze the form, content, and organ
ization of finished essays . Instructors 
find Acta useful as a general productivity 
and organizational tool for their own 
writing.
The power of ThinkTank makes it a 
valuable tool that can help develop 
students' prewriting and writing skills. 
The flexibility of this Macintosh pro
gram makes it a good planning and org
anization tool for faculty members, as 
well.
Students can use the Learning Tool to 
organize their notes in any subject area, 
they can later use these notes to write 
research papers or essays.
The computer Writing Resource Kit is
most suitable few writing courses that are 
constructed around the analysis of literature.
The second phase of composing is the 
actual writing. For this stage, Apple 
markets the two familiar word-processing 
packages MacWrite and Microsoft Word.
Apple perceives the final stage of writing 
to be rewriting or revising. To ease this 
process, Apple distributes text analyzers as 
well as a program that enables an in
structor's comments to be plugged right 
into a text handed in on disk. This pro
gram is entitled PROSE. It takes advantage 
of the ease of the Macintosh by enabling 
both the student and the instructor to work 
in the same medium of composition. 
PROSE is also very useful in peer-review 
groups in which students evaluate each 
other's work.
Tools for Writers is suitable for use in 
any composition course, including course 
for technical and business writing. Tools
for Writers can be used by students in 
other courses throughout college.
MacProof is a comprehensive textanalysis program. MacProof analyzes 
text in four different review categories: 
mechanics, usage, style and structure. 
The mechanics tests check for spelling, 
punctuation, capitalization, and double 
word problems. Usage checks for sexist, 
racist, confused, vague, overworked and 
discouraged language. Style reviews 
check for "be" verbs and nominalizations 
to help writers become mare aware of 
their constructions in writing.
Structure review programs help writers 
focus on the organization and structure 
of a composition through abridgement 
and expansion. A program like MacProof can also be used for literary text 
analysis in traditional literature courses
continued page 3
funds for the Initiative. "We will be look
ing to colleges and universities for support 
for our work and are pleased that corpor
ations are beginning to show strong 
support as well."
NeXT, Inc. was founded in 1985 by Jobs 
and other former Apple employees, an 
dintends to focus its product development 
and program offerings exclusively on the 
higher educations markeL
EDUCOM serves as a forum for the 
exchange of ideas on computer applications 
in all aspects of academia: teachning, 
research, administration, and commun
ication. Seminars, publications, meetings, 
and other events throughout the year offer 
many opportunities for EDUCOM 
Members to keep up with the rapid advan
ces in information technology.
EDUCOM flaunts Computer Graphics
By LEONARD DICKENS
Two of the most outstanding features of 
the computer exhibitions at EDUCOM are 
color and detail. High resolution color 
images are everywhere. Color and high 
resolution graphics are beginning to 
become affordable at the individual 
workstation level, and they are becoming a 
common method of making educational 
computer systems easier to use.
For many years microcomputer systems 
did not have CPUs powerful enough to 
handle today's graphical capability, even if 
the displays had been affordable. Because 
of this, university level graphics were the 
domain of mainframes and thus restricted to 
experts. The average undergraduate lab was 
fortunate to have a PC at all.
Human beings understand beuer and can 
extract much more information from a 
picture or a graph than an equivalent 
amount of information in textual format
Consequently, an increasing amount of 
effort has been expended recently to make 
detailed graphics and computing capabilities 
to support them more affordable. This 
effort is obvious at EDUCOM.
High resolution windowed graphics are 
being demonstrated by most of the 
companies and schools that are 
demonstrating software. Black and white 
displays with resolution on the order of a 
million pixels are being used for many 
applications, and can be used for the 
majority of educational purposes. The 
typical color graphics workstation has in 
addition 256 different colors per pixel 
available.
Most of the interactive capabilities being 
demonstrated are standard user interfaces 
using a mouse and menus of some sort 
Especially when designing software for use 
by non-experts, as most students and 
professers are, a system should be as easy 
to learn and use as possible. As one 
AT&T representative said of his firm's 
product, "You can get displays that will 
display over a million pixels, and I think 
that we are going to see more and more of 
these as the price comes down. The new

---------------------------------------------------

Corvus introduces new omninet hub cabling system
SAN JOSE, California - Corvus Sys
tems, Inc., the pioneering company in local 
area networking, today introduced the 
Omninet (r) Hub which transoms an 
Imninet network's bus topology into star 
topology and allows it to operate over 
existing twisted-pair telephone wiring.
According to Corvus Product Marketing 
Director Brian MacLeod, "The Omninet 
Hob, which was developed in cooperation 
with Cornell Computer Services at Cornell 
University, utilizes a single spare pair of 
wires in the existing telephone wiring for its 
network trunk. It is a practical alternative for 
local area networking that greatly reduces 
installation costs. It does not interfere with 
the telephone service and eliminates the 
high cost and inconvenience of laying new 
cable. Its flexibility and ease of configur
ation are unparalleled.
A single Omninet Hub comes with one 
Star Controler, which supports up to 25 
wire pairs or LAN branches, each up to
1,000 feet long. Two additional Controllers 
can be added to Hub, and each of the 
Con toller's branches can support up to 10
network stations. Thus, up to 64 network 
stations can be interconnected via each Hub.
As many as 25 Omninet Hubs can be 
linked in a single network, and, in this 
configuration, thousands of stations up to
4,000 feet apart can be connected. New stat
ions can be readily added and any fault on a 
branch can be isolated at a central point for 
quick diagnosis and repair without affecting 
the rest of the system.
Wherever the stations are to be located, a 
phone jack adapter called a Splitter is plug
ged into a standard telephone outlet. The 
Splitter correctly isolateds the wire pair for 
Imninet from those for the telephone. It also 
has two outlets for connecting the telephone 
cable and the computer cable.
The Omninet Hub utilizes standard 
unshielded 22 or 254 AWG 2-,3-,4-pair PBX 
premises wiring and uses one spare pair from 
the premises wiring for the network. It also 
uses standard telephone industry 25-pair con
nector, cable and prewired RJ21 distribution 
blocks for connection to the telephone dis
tribution panel.
Each Star Controller has one branch (wire
pair) optically isolated to provide isolation 
of 1000 VRMS and surge protection to 
3000V between it and the network media. 
There are enable/disable switches for the 24 
unisolated branches. It has a hierarchical star 
wired physical topology and common bus 
logical topology. It has its own power sup
ply and operates at 1 megabit per second to 
support the Omninet network's bif rate.
A Star-to-Bus Adapter Kit is used to extend 
a branch with Corvus' new Omninet Cabling 
System II cabling scheme and as many as 10 
stations can be added on each OCS II exten
sion.
The Omninet Hub, used with software 
developed at Cornell Computer Services, 
allows Apple (R) Macintosh (TM) and 
IBM(R) PCs (TM) to be interocnnected into 
a network.
All existing Omninet hardware and 
software products funciton identically with 
the Omninet Hub, and it may be used with 
any networking protocol that runs on 
Omninet, including Corvus' Constellation 
software and Novell's Advance NetWare 
operating system.
Large Omninet Heb networks are already
being oerated successfully at Cornell 
University and at GM Hughes Electronics' 
Product Analysis Laboratory in El Segundo, 
CA. Hughes is using it to interconnect 20 
PCs and ATs with a VAX super mini
computer. It will be acailable for general 
installation in December, 1986.
Corvus anticipates a cost of less the $300 
per netwrok connection, inlcuding the Omni
net interface card, the Omninet Hub, and 
necessary connectors.
Founded in 1979, Corvus Systems 
supplies network services to software for use 
on its Omninet local area network. Omninet 
is the industry standard for twisted-pair loda 
area networks and, with more that 250,000 
nodes connected on 25,000 networks, has the 
largest installed base of twisted-pair LANs 
in the world, corvus also manufactures and 
markets a full line of diskless workstations 
and file servers. Corvus products are 
marketed worldwide through more than
1,000 dealers and distributors and some 30 
OEM channels.
Corvus stock is traded nationally OTC 
(NASDAQ) under the symbol CRVS-OTC.
EDUCOM exhibits impressive graphics display
continued from page 1
generation of computers are more user 
friendly and more user active. You can hook 
them up to a mouse; make them totally 
menu driven; and you can use a sketchpad 
tablet to draw with." Ergonomic 
innovations like these require considerable 
power from both the CPU and the graphic 
device they are implemented on.
Many firms were displaying multiple color 
graphics as well as high resolution. The 
most attractive and colorful pictures were 
digitized or computer generated previously 
and called up as required. Mentioning police 
mug shot data bases, medical technology, 
and graphic arts, one company representative 
remarked, "Any area where you need a fullcolor image and you want to store it, access
Software Developers 
Learn How to Distribute VAX 
Software via 
The Clearinghouse 
Iowa State University
Digital Equipment Corporation
and
Iowa State University 
invite you to join us 
Thursday, November 13,1986 
3:30 - 5:30 
The Barron Suite 
23rd Floor 
The Hilton Hotel
it and display it digitally is a potential 
application. Use your imagination." One 
can imagine educational applications such as 
digital encyclopedias.
On the basis of progress in both software 
and hardware demonstrated at EDUCOM, it 
is easy to predict continuing interest and 
emphasis on workstations which take 
advantage of high resolution graphics. One 
DEC representative noted that to make
interactive color graphics feasable, faster 
processing technology needs to be 
empasized. Other conferees mentioned the 
continuing need for software that can take 
advantage of advanced graphics devices.
One thing seemed certain: with the 
continuing decline in the price of computer 
components, there will be an increasing 
amount of computers in the educational 
process.
An EDUCOM participant is shown 
here disussing how to best utilize
Photo by Andy Gillespie
the AT&T digitizer with a repre
sentative of the company.
Prime markets RNET
The EDUCOM '86 Conference provided 
Prime Computer Incorporated witha perfect 
opportunity to announce a new product. 
Prime is currently marketing a BITNET 
interface called RNET. Oben Adorno, creator 
of RNET, sees this project as "providing 
service to the acadmeic world that they are in 
need of."
RNET is an information transports service 
that is not dependent on the medium. The 
service will provide users with greater 
control over the network than is afforded by 
traditional features of networking. For 
instance, two modes of operation are 
available to the user: menu selection mode 
for the novice, or command line mode for
the more frequent and experienced user. A 
mouse can also be used to enter commands if 
a Macintosh is running the interface.
RNET allowa Prime users to issue 
commands to remote nodes, send and receive 
real-time user to user messages, and send and 
receive files.
RNET also allows remote users to obtain 
files from anyu prime node, or forward files 
from Prime to other nodes.
A unique feature of RNET MONITOR is 
that it allows precise control over 
trasmission activities. An authorized user 
can start and stop the RNET link, monitor 
transmission traffic, monitor session 
activities and monitor service activities.

---------------------------------------------------

Sun markets SunLink
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA - Sun 
Microsystems anounced today several 
additions to its SunLink family of data 
communication products including a MAP 
implementation for connecting Sun 
workstations in factory environments and 
pECnet compatibility for linking Sun 
systems to Digital Equipment Corporations 
DEC computers. Also new are data 
communication products for the Defense 
Data Networkd and support for the X.3 and 
X.29 netoworking standards. With these new 
key products, Sun now offers the most 
comprehensive range of integrated 
networking solutions of any workstation 
vendor.
Larry Garlick, director of Information 
Products and Standards at Sun, said, 
"Support of industry standard networking 
protocols is a key part of Sun's open 
systems computing approach. Sun's 
networking offerings now encompass all 
major standards, underscoring our 
commitment to work effectively in today's 
heterogenous computing environment. Sun's 
technology embraces systems from personal 
computers to workstations to 
supercomputers, regardless of operating 
system or manufacturer.
New SunLink Products
MAP Implementation for Factory 
Automation
Foremeost in the line-up of new 
products is Sun's Manufacturing Automation 
Protocols (MAP) implementation, providing 
software that fully supports the networking 
protocols required by General Motors 
Corporation and others for factory 
automation applications. The new release of 
SunLink OSI now supports both Technical 
and Office Protocols (TOP) and MAP 
protocols for reliable communication 
between Sun workstations and other vendors' 
equipment in engineering, office, or factory 
environments. Implementing layers one 
through seven of the OSI (Open Systems 
Interconnect) model defined by the 
International Standarrds Organization (ISO), 
SunLink OSI previously supported TOP 
promoted by Boeing Computer Services.
SunLink OSI supports MAP 
applications, including MAP CASE 
(Common Application Service Elements), 
Network Management, Directory Services, 
and FT AM (File Transfer, Access, and 
Management). It can be used with MAP
802.4 controllers, available from third-party 
vendors, to link Sun workstations with the 
broadband token bus layer in MAP 
manufacturing environments. Building on 
the layered architecture of the OSI model, 
Sun is now able to support its native 
networking architecture over the broadband 
token bus physical layer, providing its 
Network File System (NFS^^) to 802.4 
local area networks. With the addition of
802.4 suport to Sun's current 802.3 
network, a Sun system can now serve as a 
router between MAP and TOP networks. 
List price is $2,500 for SunLink OSI for a 
TOP network only, and $3,000 for SunLink
OSI for both TOP and MAP networks.
Connections to DEC Systems
Two new products connect Sun 
workstations to DEC^M systems. The 
SunLink DNA~-Type Protocols and the 
SunLink VT100*-Type Terminal Emulator 
allow Sun users to interactively access and 
share files and resources with DEC systems 
on a DECnet network or over an 
asynchronous connection. Sun workstations 
running SunLink DNA (Digital Network 
Architecture) can use DECnet protocols to 
communicate with DEC systems on the 
network. At the same time, Sun 
workstations can also use the Transmission 
Control Protocol/Internetwork Protocol
(TCP/IP), Suns native networking 
protocols, to communicate with other Sun 
systems all on the same Ethernet cable. 
Standard DECnet functions include remote 
login between Sun systems and DEC 
systems and bidirectional file transfer 
between Sun and DEC systems. With the 
new SunLink Terminal Emulator, a windowbased software package, a Sun user can 
remotely access DEC systems through a 
window on the workdstation display 
emulating a VT100 terminal. Access is 
either through a simple supports TCP/IP. 
SunLink DNA lists for $1,200 and SunLink 
Terminal Emulator for $500.
New Wide-area Connections to 
Packet-switched Networks
Sun also expanded its offerings for 
acces to packet-switched networks with the 
introduction of SunLink DDN for the 
Defense Data Network (DDN) and with the 
addition of the X.29 and X.3 networking 
standards to its existing SunLink X.25 
product. SunLink DDN allows Sun 
workstations to be nodes on the collection of 
packet-switched DDNs, which include 
Milnet, used by the Department of Defense 
organizations and contractors, and 
ARPANET, used by Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency (DARPA) 
researchers.
The new X.29 and X.3 software in the 
SunLink X.25 product make terminal-tocomputer communication possible, so Sun 
Workstation users can log in to a nonSun, non-TCP/BP host system on a public 
data network ^nd users at real or virtual 
terminals on the public data network can log 
in to Sun workstations on the Ethernet The 
new software also makes simultaneous, 
multiple virtual-terminal sessions possible. 
SunLink DDN lists for $4,000 and SunLink 
X.25 (with the X.29/X.3 software) for 
$2,500.
The new SunLink products extend Sun's 
existing line of data communication 
offerings, which includes products for SNA 
3270, BSC 3270, BSC RJE, and an inter
network router for connecting Ethernet 
networks. An optional SUnLink 
Communication Processor (SCP) board, 
which increases the communication capacity 
and performance of Sun gateways, is 
available for SunLink SNA 3270, BSC 
RJE, X.25, DDN, and the Internetwork 
ROuter. A single SCP can simultaneously 
run different multiple SunLink programs to 
many remote destinations.
Shipments to customers of the new 
SunLink products begin in November 1986. 
Availability for all SunLink products is 30 
days after receipt of order.
Sun Microsystems, Inc., a public 
company, is a leading manufacturer of 
technical workstations, with over 20,000 
workstations and board-level systems 
shipped world-wide. Sun markets its systems 
to technical end users and OEMs that add 
applications software and hardware and resell 
primarily to the computer-aided design, 
engineering and manufacturing, software 
engineering, artificial intelligencee, and 
electronic publishing markets. Sun 
Microsystems, Inc. is traded over the counter 
(SUNW or SunMic).
Apple higher 
education
continued from page 1
to compare and analyze the styles of great 
authors.
Apple distributes its software through 
Kinko's Copies. Most programs listed here 
are available at an affordable price, with the 
most expensive programs being ThinkTank, 
Microsoft Word and MacProof all at $195 
each.
Dr. David Miller, Carnegie Mellon University, demonstrates his Great 
American History Machine program. The program uses data from the 
U.S. Census to draw population maps.
photo by Andy Gillespie
The Tartan
will be having a open 
house today from 12 
noon until 5 pm.
Hughes offers 
discount
The following is a special limited time 
offer by Hughes Aircraft Company to sell 
Model 700 Projectors for $19,950 each. The 
offer is limited to a maximum of two 
projectors per campus and will be honored 
strictly on a first come first served basis 
until the limit of twenty units has been 
ordered. Prospective purchasers must be 
educational institutions, and members of 
EDUCOM. Orders will be honored in the 
order in which Hughes receives your bona 
fide purchase order, accompanied by a copy 
of this serialized offer, at 6155 El Camino 
Real, Carlsbad, CA 92008. Please mark 
your envelope: EDUCOM OFFER, Attn: 
Bill Clendinning.
The purpose of this offer is to assist our 
marketing department in placing a number of 
projectors at some universities which 
preciously were precluded from using our 
product due to budget limitations. We are 
also evaluating the efficacy of establishing a 
preferred EDUCOM discount as our primary 
marketing tool, rather than dealers or a direct 
sales force. Accordingly, your comments and 
suggestions would be appreciated. We are 
also interested in generating statistics on the 
use of our projectors for classroom and 
auditorium instruction.
This offer expires on December 19, 1986 
or on the date the twentieth machine is 
ordered, whichever occurs first. Delivery is 
F.O.B. Carlsbad, CA and may require 60 - 
90 days ARO. I do not expect this offer to 
be extended or repeated.
In consideration fo the special discount 
offered, Hughes Aircraft Compnay would 
like your agreement that we can cite the 
name of your university our advertising and 
furnish your name to other prospective 
educational customers for referral.
Thank you for your consideration, please 
contact me personally if I can be of service.
Sincerely,
Bill Clendinning, Ph.D.
Marketing Manager/Projection Systems
(619) 931-3000

---------------------------------------------------

Educom Events
Thurdsay
7:00 - 8:00 am Cash Breakfast 
Lower Lobby
7:00 - 8:00 am EDUCOM Board ofTrustees Meeting
Duquesne
8:00 am-5:00pm Registration Open
Ballroom Foyer
8:30 am-6:00pm Corporate Demos Open
8:30am-6:00pm Hospitality Suites Open
8:15-9:15am Concurrents Sessions II
Ballroom 1 Software Discounts & Site LiscensesDiane BalestriAsst. Dean of the CollegePrinceton University
Daniel Brooks AttorneyCadwalder, Wickersham &Taft(moderator)
Kenneth C. Green Sr. Res. Assoc.Univerity of Califomia-LosAngeles
Brian HawkinsV.P. of Computing & InfoServicesBrown University
Ballroom 2 Wiring Your Campus: Selection,Design, &ImplementationStrategies
Rober E. CapeDir. of TelecommunicationsCarnegie Mellon University
David ForejtAssoc. V.P. for Computing
&Telecommunications Univerity of Pittsburgh (moderator)
King's Garden North Science&
(Key Issues) Supercomputers
Introduction: GeorgeBadgerDirector, Computing Servies OfficeUniv. of Illinois UrbanaChampaign
Ralph Z. Roskies Scientific Dir., Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center Mellon Institute Univ. ofPittsburgh
King's Garden South Learning to Design,
(Impact) Designing toLearn
Gerald Balzano Assoc. Prof. of Music Univ. of Califomia-SanDiego
Stephen C. Ehrmann Program Officer fo InteractiveTechnologies Annenberg/CPB Project
(moderator)
David L. Ferguson Asst Prof. of Technology& SocietySUNY at Stony Brook
Michael Streibel Assoc. Prof. of Educ. Tech Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison
Le Bateau Introduction: Peter S.Capell
(Video) Research AssociateCenter for Art andTechnologyCarnegie MellonUniversity
A Medical Archival System Based onExpertSystem and LaserDiskTechnology
John Vries Asst V.P., HealthSciencesUniv. of Pittsburgh
Videodiscs: Art Education and Entertainment
Michael Ferraro Creativ e Research Mgr. SynthaVision Inc. of NewYork
Guided tour through a vast art collection
Level One Videodiscs: Consideration of Production andDesign
Edward E. Schwartz Interactive VideodiscSpecialistUniv. of Delaware
9:15-9:45am Break
9:45-10:45 am Concurrent Sessions III
Ballroom 1 Software Distribution
(Software) Projects
David Garson Editor, Social Science Microcumputer Review North Carolina State Univ.
G.Stephen Hirst Mgr., Reasearch & DevelopmentUniv. of Iowa
Barbara Jasinski Supvr. Faculty Author DevelopmentProgram, IRIS Stanford Univ.
Dorothy Lewis Dir., Clearinghouse forAcademicSoftwareIowa State Univ. ofScience &Technology
Tad PinkertonDir., Office of Info. Tech.Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison
Peggy Seiden Educational SoftwareLibrarianCarnegie Mellon Univ. (moderator)
Software information and evaluations;trends and plans.
Ballroom 2 Latest Findings on 
(Impact) Computing in HigherEducation
Diane P. Balestri Asst. Dean of the College Princeton Univ.(moderator)
Reynolds Ferrante Prof. of Education George Washington Univ.
Kenneth C. Green Senior Research Associate Univ. of Califomia-LosAngeles
Susan LukeshSenior ConsultantPeat, Marwick Mitchell &Co.
Joseph Raben Director Paradigm Press
Sallie J. Sherman Pres., Instructional DesignInstituteOhio State Univ.
King's Garden North Delivering Information to
(Libaries) the User
Miriam A. Drake Dir. of Libraries Georgia Institute ot Technology
Nancy Evans Electronic Info. Systems Project Dir.Carnegie Mellon Univ. (moderator)
Pamela Vance Asst. Dir., Admin. & Access ServiesUniv. of Pittsburgh
Le Bateau Women in Computing:
(Key Issues) Exploding the Myths
Barbra L. Kurshan Prof., Comp. Science Hollins College
Mary Grace Smith Mgr., Education & CommunicationsHarvard Univ.(moderator)
David Zubrow Research Assoc.Carnegie Mellon Univ.
King's Garden South TCP/IP Strategies for
(Networking) Inter& Intra-CmpusNetworking
David J. BinkoDir., Academic ComputingJohns Hopkins Univ.
Council Chair -Elect 1986-1990
Kenneth King
Vice Provost for Computing 
Cornell University
Institutional Trustee 1986-1989
William Arms
Vice President for Academic Services 
Carnegie Mellon Univeristy
Barbara Morgan
Director of Computing Services
Uniuveristy of Califomia-Berkely
Jane Caviness
Director, Academic Computing Services 
University of Delaware
Council Membership Committee
Ropbert Gallagher (serves 1986-1988) 
Director, Informastion Technology 
Resources Services 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Glenn Harris
Vice President Administration Services 
University of Western Ontario
Kenneth Pollock
Vice President Incormation
Management
Wright State Univeristy
Council Nominating Committee 1986-1987
Brian Hawkins
Vice Presisent
Computing and Services
Brown University
H. David Todd
Director of Univeristy Information
Computing
Wesleyan Univeristy
Carolyn Autry-Hunley
Director, Computer Center
University pf Michigan-Ann Arborputation
Center
University of Texas-Austin 
Priscilla Jane Huston
Director, Institute for Services and 
Applications *
Rice University
James Wrack
Director Computing Center 
University of Notre Damei
Business Items Resolved
Proposal to raise annual dues 4% (average) - 
Approved
Proposal to continue a one-year trial offer of 
$250 for new members with FTE enrollment 
of 1-500 - Approved
Proposal to set dues at $500 for all 
ovberseas members - Approved
Proposal to reduce number of Trustees from 
25 to 22 - Approved
The Tartan wished to thank Apple Computers Inc. for the funding of these special issues.
The Tartan Staff for these issues is: Lisa D. McAnany Editor-in-ChiefOlve Peersen Managing Editor
Bruce Kasrel Entertainment Editor
Drue Miller News Editor
