W?,rTjWqBSSPg*?
Men'must lje at liberty to 
gay inprint whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
Today's Editorial. >
Those Who Foil by the 
Waypide 
Cause. of. the .Chanty Ball 
How Shall \^e Regard 
Regulations? <
VOL. 29, NO, 4CARNEGIE INSCITTE OF TGHNOtOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCT. 16, 1934
Plans Formed 
For Reunion 
Of Carnegie 
Clans Oct.
Undergraduates Urged 
To Aid Committee, 
Act as Hosts
Brashear Plaque 
Will Be Unveiled
Faculty Receplion Planned, 
Fraternities to Entertain 
Alumni Friday Night
The committee in charge of the Annual Alumni Homecoming is inching: extensive plans for the reunion to be held .October 26 and 27 on the campus. The planners, urge Carneglo undergraduates to participate in a number of the affairs, acting as hosts to the v 1611- jDg alumni.. W? previous years,'participation by the student body has nol been requested, but' the committee believes that, since many of tho events; such as the class plate presentation and the parade, are exercises of history and background, they should be of interest to all students. . .. -The class plate presentation ccremooies ol the class of 1934, will be held In the Administration Building Friday, October 26, atP, M., at whichthe
of the plate, the ceremonies will include the unveiling of a bronze plaque oE Dr. Brashear, and the call and. recognition of all former classes. The Men's and Womens Glee Club will present a program of songs at ibis ceremony.Parade Will Feature One of the new features of this years homecoming, willbe a parade from the Inn to the Administration Building for. the exercises. Theparade will consist of the
of th R. O. T.' C. group, and the studentmembers : of -the ,'v.
sort are usually the feature events In the alumni homecomings of many;, easterncolleges, at which time great student interest is dis
played./.Alumni Tour CollegesAnother of the affairs In which the students ate asked to pavticlpate ia tlie tour of inspection of the campus after .the plae monies at 3 o'clock. The campus, its class rooms, and laboratories have been improved considerably, since the college days of many of tlie alumni. Any undergraduates who have time are asked to act a: hosts in directing around the cam pus, and helping to. entertain thi guests. ' In order that the alumni may also note the change in faculty in the various colleges, an hour is set aside in "which the membera of the faculties of the various colleges will be assembled in designated rooms convenient for the reception of the alumni.Doth undergraduates and alumni are invited to attend the Purdue game bonfire and Pep Rally li Bowl at 7:15 on Friday, October 26 There 'the alumni will meet Howard Harpster, Don Loyewell, and co-captalns Lewis a'i'id Croft; and nartlclnate in the cheering, singing, and stunts which ar ing arranged.Students belonging to fraternities will entertain alumni at ceptlons at 6:00 oclockon Friday, and at .dances and smokers In tho evening at 10:30.'
Publications Give 
Tea Dance Wed.
Jim Bray Furnishes Music 
For Afternoon Event
CHAPEL SPEAKER
Dr. Edwin J. Van Etten of Calary Episcopal Church V*iU ad
dress chapel next Tuesday.
Irish Football 
DancePlanned 
For Saturday
Baron Elliot's Orchestra 
Has Been Engaged; 
Novelty Feature .
urdays .football dance to b'e held In Thistle Hall from 9 till 12 following the Carnegie-Notre Dame game.This orchestra featuring the Guy .Lombardo type of music,  has played at several University of Pittsburgh dances and is now playing an extended engagement at the Park Casino.Since the alumni are having a dance-at the Hotel, Schenley Saturday, October 27, and the fraternities are all holding smokers of dances for their returning, brotliloween. Therefore, th sponsors of these-dances .propose to. -laye th novelty feature in keeping
Krrther'^nnotfnceraent^ made on cards, bearing the favorite-song of Ntre Dame,' to be distributed among the student body later in the. week.The novelty for last weeks dance consisted essentially of the drawing of a number from a hat. The hers used were those corresponding lo the coat check numbers in the check room. The man of the couple whose humhev was taken from Lhe hat on the fifth draw received a.pair of field glasses, And the lady of the couple whose number was raken from tlie hat on the tenth draw received a diary. The
First Chapel 
Service To Be 
Next Tuesday
Dr. Edwin J. Van, Etten 
Will Deliver Address 
In Little Theatre
Four Carnegie Professors 
Exhibit Paintings This Year
Professor Kostellow, Speaking of Art International, 
Maintains That Majority Can Appreciate Art 
Without Elaborate Technical Knowledge
Fraternity Group 
Arranges Service
Campus Organizations Are 
In Charge of Meetings 
During Semester
The first chapel of the year will 
be held next Tuesday at 12:30 
oclock in the Little Theater In the 
College of Fine Arls. Dr. Edwin 
J. Van Etten of the Calvary Episcopal Church will be the speaker. Dr. Charles Watkins, Director of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, will preside in-the absence of President Baker.The service, sponsored by the InterfraternWy Council, la the first of a series planned by the Y. M. C. A. for the first semester. Each service will be sponsored by a different organization on the campus. In this way it is hoped .that a great many members of the student body .who have been failing to take advantage of. the prominent and vn rled programs presented will attend in all colleges are requested, Freshmen lu all colleges . are re guested to attend.The Department of Music is co: operating with the Interfraternity Council, nd will furnish the musical part of the service. As yet they have not announced their portion of the program but it is expected to be a male trio.
Well-known on Campus
Dr. Van Etten is a popular speaker around Pittsburgh . and has spoken on the campus at many events. For several years he bus addressed the first chapel service at Carnegie. He is a pioneer of religious broadcasting. He is a member of Alpha Delta Phi social fraternity.Chapel services have been held the. campus for the past thirteen -years. -These services have
LlH'o^'hear^ pro1^^ men of this city.. On the days when a chapel service Is being'held, a black flag with
College of Fine Arts.Dr. Van Etten received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Amherst College in 2905. Six years later he graduated frotn Episcopal Theological Seminary in Cambridge, Mass. He is the recipient of honorary degrees of Doctor of DivinCollege Expenses No Longer 
Increasing, Says Ed. Bureau
Scholarships, Loan Funds Amounting to More Than 
$31,500,000 Available This Year to Students; 
Women's Private Colleges Most Costly
Pi Delta Epsilon and Alpha Chi Alpha, mens and womens Journalistic honoraries, will sponsor third tea dance of the seasou morrow afternoon. The dance will he held in Thistle Hall from 4 to 6 ocloclc. Jim. Brays orchestra
student, having, graduated from the Department of Music.. His. orchestra has played at the Lake Dunmore Ho.tel, Lake Dunmore, Verli.aUdTickets will he twenty-five cents. They may be .obtained from members of the committee; or at Thistle Hall tomorrows The committee members ' are:. Margaret Griffin36, president of Alpha Chi Alpha; Veronica" ttloos~' 3S, "r Madoliu Vautrinot 35,'James M. Latta 36, president of Pi Delta Epsilon, Edward E. McDonald, and Richard
be produced by.the Department of Drama, made in the preceding issue, the Tartan regrets the omis.slon of "Love tor Love" by Congreve. It is being.direeled by visiting Professor B. Iden Payne, and
lt.:win,:be presented from October.v
.24:to::ao.:
By Irving Gruber
The assumption that college expenses hare been -Increasing during the past few years is not wellfounded, as a recent survey made by the United States Office of Education shows. Tuition rates twenty years ago were relatively low and  so standardized that for a period of fifty years few-changes had been' made. In 1914-15 rates began to be changed upward, and ten years later many tuitions had beeit doubled. .In -1934 tb highest tuition rates, from 5400 to $500 per year, were charged in twenty-five colleges and universities, excluding three technical institutes Massachusetts Institute' of .Tech-- nology, Stevens Institute of Technology, and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. The increases 'In tuition since 1913 is snown in this summary:
COEDUCATIONAL COLLEGES
MENS COLLEGES
- WOMENS COLLEGES
These rates show that students in 1913 could attend any college.by paying from $150 to'$200 a year for. tuition, but in 1934 he would have to pay two or three'times as much. Woman's i/alleges - Eaijv tain: the .highest rates.
Many Tuitions Reduced Thin Is onlv one side of. the "toryIn the publicly controlled institutions, tuitions are free orhalt the ordinary college tuittbn, iffaverage $78 per year; rates toanft s
five years. In 125 private colleges, tuitions have been lowered average of $62 per year, and' 1 been raised in 109 schools an a age of $49. Consequently, for country as a whole, the decreases were greater in number and average size than the Increases, 
College officials have estimated
represented in th
in the Carnegie Institute.
exhibitions, and was awarded the Carnegie iustltute prize 'in 1930; Prof. Kostellow,- whose painting After Dinner, was given -honorable mention lust year in the 1
approach lo art, Prof. Ko3teilow said, "Go and look fpr the things that you like, but, he added, dont go full of prejudices;Majority Appreciate Art When asked whether the major, lly of people were capable of opiating art, Prof. Kostellow r6r plied, "Absolutely. The minute you express the sllghest amount of aste In choosing or, selecting an irticle for a quality which lies beyond the utilitarian, you already he^ gin to show certain aesthetic con:epts. Although a person may lever like a picturo, he is attracted to other objects of beauty which ibody some of the same fundamental principles that make a picElaborate technical knowledge unnecessary for appreciation of t. In the class-room, of course,
!a^ picturo is taken to pieces and 'analyzed bit by bit, but this dissection .helps form the technical
ivelopingcrowd, the spiritual wants with 'elaborate structures and bury your ;own appreciation under the cloal: ;pf the pedantic. Understanding of ;art Is.the product of appreciation. , A great help in'the appreciation ;of art Is a knowledge of the history !;ot civilization, and. especially of '.the history of artistic expression throughout the ages, Prof. Kostel:low explained.T Don't expect the artist to paint your particular taste, he then advised. Something more thnn popular tasto compels him to paint. -Every artist Jn his own. way tries tO; express his concept about life. Art Is a by-product of the artist's expression or emotion, and a creative painting is his reaction to this emotion.Modern Art V-:To the.question, "Is modern art ahead, of its time? Prof. Kosteliows answer was "No. In historical perspective, ait isneither ahead nor' behind the times, but blonds rjormally into the present, pattern of living.* Just a$ lhe feet naturally take, the load . in walking. However, there are similarly artlsSchool Sends 
M. M. Senator 
To Convention
M. Griffin 35 to Attend 
Meeting of Student 
Council Assoc.
ElectionsDraw 
Great Interest
Irresponsible Reporter 
Reviews Situation -
y look c
freshman year. ' In flfty-I state-controlled institutions, 1 first year student can get along $378, but in thirty-nineothers he must spend from $500 to $300. For privately controlled institutions, the minimum average expense was found to be $901 for womens colleges. $318 for mens colleges, and
Did you note thefarthe otherwise ever-near faces ofthe Arts and . Engineeringcrowd 
last week?--: Ajid towaxda'. the y.eiyi, 
offfio ^eek^did'TougaOief that1 the big melal and conerete-men and des artistes were biting their fingernails right up, or down, to their elbows? . .. . The answer to all this?
nor yet has prosperity been-sighted around any of the local corners, but.ihcrse yearly classic events, the elections, ar^_ again popping up. Yes, mah friends, open season has been declared on I view with
Everyone was wondering who was going to be elected to the different college offices. Many subtle hints In the form of printed tickets were given out during the week to assist the wondering student to make up his . mind. Some of the constituents were looking for radio speeches but none were forthcoming. Deduction: The war chests are empty.This years elections seem more important, than ever, and they
men* elected have quite a little 1 say on student activities. O you think without stopping? Should you labor under i'
watch the. Industries weejr. and sea.if they d.wt. hehfl-ve just-as the Engles and Arties did last week. I am given to understand that Industrie's Is planning a real Pittsburgh election. What 1 mean is that they are goirg to be real mysterious this year and surround their election with a smoke screen.. What I moan-., is . . well, anyway, a smoker is-planned.All of this Is to impress on your mind, dear reader, the importance of the elections. This beiiig done finish,' because, as the GovTapers throughout .Lhe country i
freshman per year at Carnegie is
_ budget and from $45 to-.$81 for tlie three, years following', .the Education Office estimated.
Schools Aid.Students Schools throughout the country arc doing their, utmost to aid worthy students,. who, as victims of thb'.depression, might be forced .to. liave college on account of lack offunds/ Deferred tuitious have helped over 14,000 students to remain in college: Scholarships and loan funds of .more than .$91,500,000 in; . ill institutions' ate available
ships': equivalent to
western state -^college accepted farm products, in-Dayment. ot tul-. tlon In an effort to keep depression victims In college s
FRESHMAN REPORTERS MEET
Prospective reporters for the Tartan editorial staff morrow afternoon at 4:30 in Room 10C Arts lor-the first sssion of th< in practical journal!is to he conducted by senior staff members.Interested students who liavi as yet signed up for a start position may report tomorrow with the oth^r candidates and be enrolled.
COMING EVENTS
4:00Publications -Tea Dane Thistle. Hall. .Thursday' -,. 4:30^-Cwen TeaWomens Club Room. 'Friday 12; Ar 'A. meetingWornTea-College - of 
Charity
Exhibition Room,FineArts. ' ; 9:00^WOrne'fi's'1 Guild-BallThistle Hall;Saturday^....;. ..9:00 ^ Notre Dame Danfce-^Thistle Hall.
Tuesday -'  _11:30  Freshman Class Elections. .12:30- Chapel-- Little -Theater, College of Fin Arts
Editors Meet 
In Chicago
N. C.P.A., A.C.P. Have 
Joint Convention
the National Collegiate Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press. De Paul Unlv-erslty In Chicago acted as host t
Discussious were carricd Round Table sessions,
of-the Chicago other men prominent in journalism addressed the group.A contest to ascertain the most representative college newspapei at the convention was -held. The newspaper' of Virginia Polytechby Governor Harry Horner of Illi
nois. The Carnegie Tartan disqualified from the contest be-have enough isProgram Lasting 
4 Days Arranged
Philosophy of Student Govt. 
To Be Electing Theme;
4 Main Speakers *
Margaret Griilln '35, vice presi
dent of the Margaret Morrison 
Senate, will represent Carnegie at 
a session of the Womens Iutercolleglate Association for Student 
Government, which will meet at 
Allegheny College) Meadvllle, Pa.
It is usually tho custom at Car
negie for the delegate to this aunual convention to be in ulternato 
years the president of the Women' 
Dormitory Council and the proai
dent of th.e Margaret Morrison 
Senate. . This year, as Elonuor 
Sherman 36, president of th Senate, will be unable to attend, MIbs Griilln will take her place.The general theme of the t ferenco will he The Philosophy of Student Government. Miss Edith Senrles, head of the women's dent government at'Allegheny and national prsident of the association, and Dr. Evelyn Miller, dean of women at Allegheny, have arranged ci four-day program of addresses, business meetings, discussion groups; and entertainment.Four Principal Speakers .The four principal speakers and their subjects are: Prof. Sarah M. Sturtevant, head of the department of student personnel administration, Teachers' College, . Columbia University, The Function of Student Government on Modern College Campis; Dean Thyrsa W. Amos, University of Pittsburgh, The Educational Value of Extra-curricular Activities Among College Women . Stu-dents; Dean Florence Ncolson 
s-i-v.- TT ,-T-r-v -rOhio Wesleyan University, .."Per-M tio Hotel BUmavck m CMcaeo 80r.nllty AdiiiBimmits Amons Col\v.eek.1;:to...d.isii99_^imD.ortanL, .ege'-Wmen' StiMitB-i-^-and^Diih'
rorsity, The Place ot tlie Honor System In Modern Student Government.Five student discussion groups
clplinary Function College; "The Town Girls Place in Student Government, Universit of Pittsburgh; 'Reasons for Point Systems," Hood College; Honor Systems," Alfred College; "The Relation Between Social and Acrtdmic Standing iii Student Life," Ohio Wesleyan University.Colleges Represented Colleges invited to attend the convention besides Carnegie are; Adelphi College, Alfred University, Rates College, Beaver College, Antioch College,, Barnard College, Bucknell .University, Connecticut College, Converse College, DennlCollege, DlcUlnson University,
Hunter College, and Lake Eric
Former Faculty Member Appointed 
To Board Which Replaces Johnson
Second Annual Charity 
Ball Will Take Place' 
In Thistle Hall Friday.
Election Petitions 
AreDue Tomorrow
Candidates for olllces in the freshman class are to be reminded that their petitions, properly signed by tea other
the chairman of the tlons Committee of ' Student Council or left in the Y. M. C. A. olUce no later thnn tomorrow afternoon.Freshman class elections will be conducted in the' three colleges under the supervision of Student council Trom 11:30 to 1:30 Tuesday, October 23. A president, secretary, and treasurer will be
itfnrgaret Morrison freshmen
Ches 'Walters Orchestra 
Is Engaged to Play 
From 9 to 2
Wont Replace 
Kiltie Band 
Drum Major
Satisfied with Present 
Baton Twirling SayB 
Director Sullivan
Leon Henderson Stimulated 
Classes By Unorthodox 
Teaching Methods
Henderson was brought Carnegie ..from - thfe -University, .ot 'Pennsylvania where, for two years, he had been teaching Industrial management. Here at Carnegie, he served during the school
He aroused considerable comment by his unorthodox methods of teaching. He came to Carnegie with idea that being an.assistant professor of industrial economics meant teaching the ' subject in th most, effective way. For instance, when the course came to a discussion, of the I. W. W. or of Communism. Mr. Heuderson would buy all. the T. W. W. and Communism reading matter he could find.He thought that by -reading the'sedoctrines in the ' raw,- students could have the best possible chancy f deciding-whether or not they-;'offered an improvement .overvt; prevailingor governmental systems. Although so>rne people considered this reading of radical .literature to be extremely dangerous, Mr. Henderson-believed
dents In his classes attended ture by Eugene _Debe, the . great Socialist leader. The shocked surprise which, greeted this move was onlv relieved .when a checkup prov led Ltbat very : fw oI those who at
tended showed an active sympathy with Debs doctrines.
Active 0ut6lde Classes Outside of classes, Mr. Henderson was active in the student life of Carnegie. He lived on the cam* pus, helped coach the basketball and officiated at track
budgets, personnel, and a retirement system..After leaving'the Plnchot staff, Mr. Henderson was for eight years associated with the Russell Sage
NRA's effect on consumers. Gen. Johnson asked him to repeat those criticisms to him personally, and
was later made chief economic adviser to Gen. Johnson. 
New Kind' of Braln-Truster Unlike the '.popular idea of a braln-truster, Mr. Henderson has nothing of the absent-minded, philosophical, or' scholarly air.' He/ is a-stocky, smiling man in his early forties, who likes to put his feet on'his desk ou' occasions, and who can discuss practical problems in ordinary language;He intends to remain with the NRA as long'as'he is needed or
handling of economic" : problems devised in the,worlds history/' tiesays-'' ..... ................-^Todays problems, the job of
all the.-people.' that can he mad or this unique and highly valuable
Intimating that 
should mind their own buslnoss, 
Mr. Sullivan, Kiltie bandmaster, 
said that the Tecent agitation^fov 
the removal of Drum-major Sharp 
was entirely unfounded. The agi
tation arose following the Miami 
pep. rally when Joseph H. Copp 38 
acted aB drum-major In the ab
sence of William H. Sharp.
The pleh^i as Joseph opp is 
referred':.to:'on..the campus', gave a
maat'erly.:dl3Play.'of..'.baton,t!wlrllng 
whllo leading the band at the pop 
rally ani^ immediately some began 
to acclaim him drum-major.
Realizing Copps' ability \vith the 
baton and the fact that many 
thought; he should k be appointed 
drum-major, Sharp told John Wngenseil 36. manager of . the band, 
following the Miami gamo that ho 
was willing to step aside in favor 
of the plebe.
Sharp Continues In Band 
Mr. Wagenseil spoke to Mr. Sul
livan . concerning tho action of 
Sharp, and the bandmasLer said 
that regardless what arrangomcnts 
were to be made Sharp should c 
ttnuo as a member of tho band.
In an Interview with the Tartan last week, Mr. Sullivan said that at no time, had he considered asking Sharp to resign, and that he was never in favor, ot a change. "I want all my drum-majors to have at least one years experlenco In the band "before they assume the field generalship. Sharp - showed' himself to be a very fine sportsman when he offered to step aside. I:am highly satisfied with his leadership of the band, bnd therefore cannot think of allowing hii to'leave us at..this time."'
Plebe" Gives Performance 
Sharp will continue us drur major and lhe. plebe MU take hJs
the ranks for the. march up and down the field. At this time he will march before the band and give a demonstration of baton twirling y?lth "his own batoa.* '' ' 
In . commenting upon the pres ent arrangement, Joseph Copp said, I am glad things have hi -arranged -as -thoyaco-^now for-1 feel right stepping into
f the high school band In Middletown, Ohio, and has had baton' work at tho Tnterla^hen Music Camp under the direction of tb< drum-major o% the University-o Illinois Band. He has a scholastic scholarship at Carnegie!
COUNCIL BRIEFS
the following 'problems of student government:  -Approved the petition of Pi Delta Epsilon for a tea dance Wednes.Dragon soclftt.y./r.iancfts-on: October 17 and 24.pf. Failed to approve the budget of the Carnegle TaTtan and tabled the
-Arts Ball and - the -Post -Arte Ball.Approved the petition of Betty Mackey andlflaTy wettaeh tor tbs privilege of holding extra-offices, which under tfie - Women's -Point " r are allowed to hold
^Sim
Margaret Barr Is 
General Chairman
Proceeds from Drive, Ball, 
Will Give Financial Aid 
To Needy Students
to play for the second annual-Char-- lty Ball on Friday evening. The Ball, sponsored - by tho Carnegio Womens Guild, will take place . from 9 until 1 o'clock <n Thistle Hull. Marenvet Burr SB,. preBlllent of the Cult?; Is general chairman. - Thfe affair will be the first formal' dunco of tho Carnegie social colTickets are on salo at i.25. a couple and may be obtained either at the *Y office or from members  of the commilteo.
Funds To Help Students . .Heretofore, funds raised by tho Guild hnvo boon used In various... typoB of philanthropic .work off campus, often in connection with-, city welfare organizations. This yoar, however, the proceeds from the Guild drive and the Charity Ball will be used to give flnnnoirvl . aid to needy Carnegie students.Miss Barr, general chairman of the Ball, Is .assisted by. Beatrice^ Archer '37, Department of Painting and Design;.LouIbo Almy *36.-Department of Home Economics:. Draybelle McDonald 36, Depart-, ment of Music; and Dorolha Bateman 3C, Department of'Secretarial Studies. Miss Barr Is .a member of Mortar Board, womens senior honorary; a member of Kappa Phi
nallsfic honorary, and a former. Cwen. She is a member, of tho Department ot Home Economics.
Charles W; Watkins, and; Dr. ana Mrs. Roscoe M. Ihrig have been, invited to attend the ball aB. patrons and'patronesses,The chaperons for the. hall wilt
Lang, Mr. F, Curtis Swanson. Mr.
coinFt._____ .... .........._____Ing type ot music, Walter's piece band has played at many Pittsburgh collegiate affairs. During the summer, they played for . various country clubs, for several Brentwood Park dances, and at the-.. Sheridan Fair from August 25- to September 1. The band also broad*, casts every Sunday evening at T - oclock over Station KQV.
Institute Observes 
37 Founders Day
Our America1 Is Subject 
' Of Address by Pres. ^
The thirty-seventh annual cele. = bralJou oi Founders I>ay at tha - Carnegie Jntetltute win he held " Thursday afternoon, October 18,' at 4:00 oclock in the Carnegie Musid a Hall. Samuel Harden  Church,- ' President of the Carnegie Institute : will deliver the annual address-:His subject will be -Oiir America; ""Samuel Harden Church has - received tho honorary degrees of LL. D. from the University of PlttShurgh,:Lltt..D..from. Yale Universlty, and M, A. from Western Pennsylvania Un/versity. He Is also a member of the Legion of Honor.  ihespeaker at the-RbVub-'-' lican National Conventions in all Presidential campaigns from -1904^' 1932, when he organized the Liberal party and declared fo? Frank' lin D.. Roosevelt, 'Democratic ; nominee.
The opening, number. Victor1 Herberts American Fantasy willbe played by Dr. Marshall BIdi well. Organist and Director of; Music at the Institute. Reverend'.; Marshall Mwr. DD -u >i te<s the. Bellefleid Presbyterian Churchwili pronounce the invocation.A quartette from: the Shadyside:' Presbyterian Church, consisting-ot Margaret Spaulding StockdaleiV Mabel. King,. Will A. Rhodes:-vjfp-tf and Raymon T. Griffin, accomv; panled by Earl Mitchell.; will:. slng^ Rudyard . Kipling's Recessional:: to the De Koven music.. "The Sex-.' tette-* from Lucia, and "Mountains^ bv Jlasbach N  -MakeAWrds for -Palntlng^^The InternationalExhibltion 'Of :: Paintings awards will w be. 'att-; nounced from the platform and: at % the conclusion of.the program.- the>: Fine Arts galleries will t^e opened v for the inspection of this vearti^ exhibitions BThe Founders Day commlttee-^fij consista of the following membera%Xa of the Board of Trustees:'GeorgeS*
William J. Boost

---------------------------------------------------

rwr
_THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 6, J93.4 -
Nov. 9 Is Set 
,rTj Annual 
Military Ball
El abo r a te Decorations 
Will Mark Annual 
R.O.T.C. Dance
Scabbard, Blade 
Names Committe
J. Walker Heads Decorations; 
C. S. Gischel, Publicity;
T. Dana, Orchestra
held November 9 look place during the past week.wilh the selection of committees.
The annual Military Ball, one of the most colorful, social occasions of the flrst semester is sponsored by the Carnegie chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national military honorary society.
Honorary cadet officers will be chosen from the senior class women of Margaret Morrison and tlie ' College of Fine Arts. These honorary officers chosen by vote or the s R. O. T. C. unit, will receive irds at
- by Scabbard and Blades call for junior and senior officers.
Orchestra Bids Sent Out 
Thomas W. Dana 35 is chairman of the orchestra committee. As In
members assisting Mr. Dana on the committee are Charles N. Bay' less 36. Howard E. Nestlerode 35, and Charles W. Mallieon '35- 
Gischel Publicity Chairman 
Clyde S. Gischel 35. has been . placed at the head of the publicity committee. He will also act as a 'member of the ticket and favor committees. Mr. Gischel Is a member of the Delta Tau Delta social fraternity, cheerleader, and business .^manager of the Trl-Publicatbe Ball are Julian F. Mi Nicholas M. Maslch 34, and John A. Ord 35.
Lighting To Be Concealed 
Army pennants, college banners and Concealed .lighting are features which are being plai decorations . committee : James K. Walker 35. Mr. Walker .is a', member of PI Kappa Alpha
tions to feature the Military Ball ^111 be executed by members of
?ick 34. E. Bradford Hollingsworth .-.'*36,.hd J. Clinton Parker 35; 1 he cadet colonel of the R. O. T. ,C.. who will be selected within the - sect few weeks, will' lead the , grand march at the Ball. Tickets
Will Current Investigations 
Of Munitions Lead to War2:
Krupp Munitions Scandal 
Broke Just Before 
Last Big War
interest in the munitions industry seems to be at its highest ,Juet prior to the outbreak of war. This may be simply a coincidence, but gigantic scandal broke in Germany with* respect to the Kruppa just on the eve of the World War, Without being unnecessarily prophetic and gloomy about it, may not our own American Investigation of the turgid and more or less wanton munitions racket portend some evil consequences in international relations in the near future? And a peculiarly baffling fact about is this,that it is bouud to flourish whenever there are ructions and no matter what the particular cause of tbe difficulty may be.
ing almost with rapid-fire predion. Witness, Ibe latest, last eek in tlie case of the assassinations of the late King of Jugoa and tbe foreign minister of ce, M. Barthou. It is easy to rn a shifting of alliances, and attempts to achieve a fine balance of power which cannot be maintained very long without the ultlfind a persuasive agreement in i
technicallywhen the dread mocoroes. - The arms salesman is therefore the most welcome of business agents, and tbe prl'
In fact, the nwnltloneer. is a peculiarly patriotic entrepreneur  until he is found out.
- Committee Exposes Practices The Nye Committee of the United States Senate which has been investigating the Munitions Industry has thrown the spotlight phases of this nefadustry, which gives the lie to the supposed patriotic fervor of tbe munitions manufacturer.The Electric Boat Compnny. an outstanding manufacturer of submarines, it appeared, entered into greement tor the exchange of
i with Vickers, the leading Engpolicy, for the one concern could approach one of tbe combatant lions, the o(her the enemy, sell
all the casualties. This happened In .the case of a dispute between Chile and Peru."Many Shameful. Examples
brought by ' Krupps, leading nan arms manufacturer.
against Vickers of England demanding an unpaid royally of a shilling upon every grenadeused by the British in the World war ostensibly..against German soldiers on the basis that a fuze-patent employed on tbe grenades bad be* longed to tbe Krttpps._ Final setGermao U-Boats, the Nye .committee revealed, employed again basic patents of the American Electric Boat Company in tbe undersea warfare . against us. A prominent American manufacturer of gases admitted that he had  dickering with tbe Japanese
the scandalous story runs; tbe bloody merchants of death a nationalists, more so certain religious organizations in soqie respects.
ifit by Home Sales 
me market is not overlooked by any means. - In all cases, the demands of the home governments are more important. So initant is this that, as In tbe case of Franco, many newspapers are outright by the rtiunitloneers, to exacerbate public opinion to the war danger whenever there Is any danger of its cooling . Disarmament conferences are ecked by tbe lobbying of tbelr agents or 60 emasculated as to provide an empty show.cy of artoe embargoes, as in tbe case of the one supposedly' in force against Bolivia find
manufacturer. Pressure been used to undermine such
Natlonalize/ Arms Manufactui Nationalization of the manufncre of arms, lo remove the -temptation of profit by blood has often in advanced by peace-flghtei remove once, and for all, these insidious people. But there i guarantee that the nations themselves will become any. less peacefully disposed thereby. That deItogelher upon the nature of the state.In the caBea of Fascist countries bred upon an Inflamed, exaggerated nationalism, and living upon a policy of economic separation the danger of war wo.uld be all tbe re imminent. The Toots of national disputes are, after all, momlc chiefly and until tho chief nations shall have achieved rational economic system, wai II ensue. For the munitions .nufactrfrer is after all only do__j business like all other industries and, acting as a. supersalesJMasster Plumbers Green Pastures
Miset Students
Five Men Hold Scholarships 
... Of National Association
-.Members of the Scholarship ; Committee of the' National Asso. elation of Master Plumbers tnet in .Pittsburgh Sunday and Monday to Interview the holders qf N. A. M. P. scholarships at Carnegie, John . Richmond *35, John R. Burns.35,
< Until recently the National As... Eoctatlon .of Master Plumbers hasawarded two or three scholarships to sons of members of the Association on th basis ^if high schoolgrades, and the. financial standing Tof .hls parents The only stipula.-.is the Plumbing, Heating,.and Ventilating course at Carnegie.
The scholarships are -funded by Interest on securities granted-to the -National Association by firms,
: ventilating industries.
Representatives of the National Association have, in former years,. held one meeting a year In Pitts- burgh for the purpose of meetingthe men that have been granted scholarships. As a result of the
' expects to resume thei 
' Members of the Scholarship : Committee are: Richard J. Welch, -, Lowell. Mass., chairman; George -Hi' Brak. Buffalo, N. Y.; John J. : <telnaa: Chicago, III.; John P. MeCoy.'Fon du Lac, Wls.; and George
Tickets On Sale
Green Pastures, the famous T)lay about negro life, is coming to the Nixon theater for three nights, October 19, 19 and 20. ..Students may purchase tickets at the following
tained at Room .104, College of Fine Arts.. Beginning .Monday,. Oct. 22, the Nixon Theater will present Fritz Leiber in a repertoire of Shakespearean plays.Tlie plays includi Tuesday and Thursday evenings.iday evening;
Lear,
Hamlit, Monday evening and Saturday matinee; Merchant of Vi and .Macbeth, Wednesday and Saturday evenings. The some rates available for Green Pastures be had'for th Fritz Lelber pi tations.
Dei Blanco, conductor, wi>l present' their fifth season of concerts Carnegie Music Hall. The Friday evening concerts, five in number, will be given at 8:16 oclock on Oct. 19. Nov. 23, Jan. 11, Mar. 1, and April
$1*00: Students desiring special rates must get  an Identification card from Mrs. Lawton, ofilcc of the Department of Music, which when presented at tlie box office .will entitle the student to lower rst/is. The May Beegle Concert' prices of ^ the season Balcony, $9.00, $8.00 and 5.60, andSecond' Balcony. $5~.S0.
W00DLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FORBES STREET 
SPECIALS
jTeeh Stationery _______................ 50c
Probak Blades.. ...............25c foi 59c
-Alarm Clock, Guaranteed........................
Field Glasses ............................
.Rogets Thesaurus.................................
Complete Shakespeares Works.............
Sheaffer Pen Sets, 1/3 Off 
$19 50 Radio
TOY OTJH.- LTJireHEONETTE
. 98c 
.$1.00 
$100 
.$1.00
$13.50
sellili
TJb i stle; Plans 
Taking Shape
Special Price Offered 
For Senior Sittings -.
Award Coiitraets
Editor Hopes for Publication 
In Early Part of May
James M. tetla 36, editor of the 1935 Thistle, has -announced that definite plans for .the publi<
during the next few weeks. Price arrangements have been made and contracts have been let for the photography and the engraving.
Tbe Thistle is the Carnegie yearbook, published annually by .members of the junior class. It conindividual pictures of graduseniors, feature sections, sports, and group pictures together.a brief account of campus organizations.
Parry to Do Pictures All photography for the year)ok will be done by th6 Pany studios. The. first senior pictures will be taken this week; All individual sittings must he made bebeeh made The regular depo:Is listed as one dollar but to those who bav made a deposit on the Thistle the studio sitting charge will be fifty cents. Arrangements for Thistle pictures should ?b,e made at the "Y" office in Indus-ies Building.
The contract for the engraving work has been let to the Canton Engraving Company of . Canton,
book engraving. The school ice of this firm iB in charge of Marvin Potts 32 and Ralph Hitchcock '30 former art editors of the Carnegie Thistle.
Although no definite date of publication has "Been n\ade public,
student body the Thistle will be buted the first week in May. The ' business staff has reported
heir teeth pulWd.'lap-dogs with all
CLAN NEWS
Carnegiealumni of s the Ne York Clan will meet at the Hotel Martinique CatoBar, at the ordinner, after the New York University football game.The Carnegie Womens Clan Philadelphia will hoid the fl meeting of the season at the home' of Mrs. Robert E. Lees, Old Gulph
Alumni in and near Philadelphl are Invited to attend this meetini.A dinner smoker opened the fall activities of the Carnegie Men; Clan of Philadelphia. It w.as held at Palumbos Restaurant on day, October fifth. i>r. John Beatty of the Bureau of Recoin
After the Camegie-Temple football game, the Philadelphia Clan planning a dinner-dance.. Paul V. Shaver, a-past president
pleasing number of 1935 
been sold,Thistle subscriptions have already
Electrical Eng. Society 
Holds First Meeting
The first meeting of the Carnegie
was held in the Union on Friday evening, October 5. There was a program followed by refreshfaculty counsellor, presented .
organization.. A committee was appointed to conduct a membership drive.The new officers of the A. I. ,E.E. are: H. J. .Corning *36, chairman; J. B. Rice '36, vice chairman;F. E. Mertz 35, secretary; O. CCoho. 3G, treasurer;  
chairman of meetings and papers
iness meeting, will_be
Y Cabineis Hold 
Meeting Tonight
Plane for Jointly-SpoDsored 
Affairs Will Be Made
A joint meeting'of fhe Y. M. C. A. and the Y.. W. C. ACabineis will be held lit the home of Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive secretary of Student Council and also of the Carnegie branch of the Y. M C. A., at eight o'clock tonight.
' This meeting Is being held for the purpose of laying plans for their jointly-sponsored functions for the remainder of the.year. For the eveqjng of November 5, tbe two cabinets are planning a.joint meeting to be held at the Delta Upsilon fraternity bouse. The cabinet? will also make - their plans for the annual Thanksgiving dinner for those students who are not able to go home.
Among the other.functions to be arrauge'd are the Christmas party, which a scheduled for' the last week of school before the Christmas recess, and a joint entertainment for the Cosmopolitan Club.There will not be a speaker for the meeting tonight as it will be
Students Poems 
Published in Book
Carnegie students, Melvin D. Buckner 3G, of the Department, of Painting and Design, and Fred
i published oo September
This anthology is the first comprehensive collection of western Pennsylvania poetry to be. issued in book form, and was compiled by Walter E. Manges and David E. Nichols, with a foreword by George Seibel. It is illustrated
Pittsburgh artist.In order to encourage promising younger writers, the compilers of the anthology have devoted a special scholastic section to the orks of gifted students fr<
New Process for Hardening Steel
Disclosed by Garjiegie Professor
Effects of Nitrogen on M etuis 
Is Subject of Lecture 
By Dr, Krivobok
A nw Idea', th : hardening" ofstainless steels with nitrogen, was presented last Wednesday to the National Metals Congress by Dr. Vsevolod N. Krivobok, professor et Metallurgy, in his Campbell Memo*- 
riaiLectuxe.Alter three years .of research on the. problem Dr. .Krivobok discovered that the same nitrogen which Is used in'maklng fertilisers will harden certain alloys which are the basis of the new . rustless steels. My researches," said Dr. Krivobok, prove that nitrogen has profound influence on the properties of stainless steel, and also, that iron and cbrominm (stainless steels) have a remarkable affinity for nitrogen in alloys to produco astonishing changes in properties.By controlling the nitrogen content and with proper beat treatment, Impact characteristics (that is toughness) far above those obM.M. Sophomore Class 
Gives Halloween Party
The sophomore class of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College is planning a Halloween party to be held In Recreation Hall bn Monday. afternoon, October 29, from 4:30 to 6:00 p. m. The program Tor the affair, which Is being arranged by a committee headed by Margaret Fitzgerald, will include the traditional Halloween games. Refreshments will consist of cider, doughnuts, and novelty candy. A fee of fifteen cents .will -be charged.
your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
'Pittsburgh, Pa.
tainable in alloys wltbout 'nltrogen can easily bo secured-"This Is the first'time that a study on the Influence of some gaseous elements, such as nitrogen, has been reported, despite the fact that the .questlon. ofcomposition has been exhaustively, examined.. Thus, Dr. Krivobok. has discovered facts wbich 'he thinks should prove Important to both scientists and
of the difficulties encountered in fabricatioii-of gtalnless and' similar 
steel.'- What Influence nitrogen ma> have on other alloys,.Sr. Krivobok said, .at present can be only epeculated upon.___________~
Nante of Woodlauth 
Avenue Is Changed
The name of the street which 
extends from'the Woodlawn Phar
macy throi/gh the Carnegie Cantpus to Frew street, has beeit 
changed from Woodlawn &ren,ue to 
Margaret Morrison street.
Some students probabiy do not 
know, that the. streets on ..the campus have names. The street-which 
rune from the Margaret Morrison f 
building past the gymnasium to I 
'Park boulevard la Tech slreel. I 
Frew street starts at the Park I 
Mansions Apartments, extends the I 
length of Industries Building, an<i I 
.joins Park boulevard at the bridge J 
Teaming to Carnegie Institute. |
Ton speak into the telephone. Your voice, your 
personality, part , of you is projected far and wide. 
In effect you are in two places and time9 at once 
evening in New York, afternoon in San Francisco. 
Or youre in Washington today and in Sydney, 
Australia tomorrowat one and the same time!
The telephones power, to put a person, where he 
wants to be-at the psychological momentproves 
tremendously valuable.
In domestic and foreign 1 
business, in national and 
international affairs, in 
friendly social contacts, 
it permits a quick inter
change of ideas and im* 
mediate understanding.
BELL TELEPHONESYSTEM
A college survey of 156 in^tit'i tions showed that the scltolarsliii averages of frat men were -lilchei
Red and Black.
LOWER PRICES
Mats. 15c-20c Nites 20c-30e |SWELL SHOWS
AND ALL THE BEST ONES
2,000 GOOD SEATS
Perfect Vision
BE WISE
SE THEM ALL AT THESCHENLEY
Today and Tuesday 
Joan CRAWFORD 
Clark GABLE 
I CHAINED I
f LAUREL: and . HARDY 1 J In THEM THAR HILLS" f
Mickey Mou6e Cartoon
Wed;-'Th~urs., Oct. 17-18 
Robert MONTGOMERY 
Maureen O'SULLIVAN
THE HIDEOUT"
 And Another TypicalSchenley Theatre-:Program: qB
TT
, . m a
common - sense 
package -W10c
-and where I can get 
good pipe tobacco
T
HE tobacco which we 
believe is best suited 
for pipes is used in making 
Granger Rough Cut.
It is made by th Wellman 
Process, and we believe'that 
it will compare favorably 
with higher priccd tobaccos:.
We wish, in some way, we
the pipe tobacco thats Mill) 
the pipe tobacco thats COOL
__ Jolid seem to iiie H
a pipe to iitst tn Granger.
S Pg**Mjj e n'Mmu stlBaat ibryr


---------------------------------------------------

r
TUB co-eds scrimmage is on the 
bleachers during the football 
games. We are going to give you 
e helpful hints so that you will 
be able to present a beautiful lineupand dazzle your opponent's eyesas well as confue'e their sig
nals.
YOU will score a touchdown with this exciting and utterly different three-piece suit' The lines of the fitted velveteen jacket are relieved by *a coachman revere over each shoulder; the black and yel-__ plaid wool JUet and skirt areI trimmed MOST effectively . with a of black and yellow buttons I from the top of the Jilet to the , bottom of the slit skirt. Well tell I a secret: you'll be surprised | when you learn the price!
MAKE first down at the football dance with this chfc (we I think of a better word for It) tunic frock, which is an absolute necessity in your wardrobe. The tunic [ Is of a new material called Klo-ka,I (we dont know what It means I either), and is a dashing .firebrand
} up the side. The shoulders of the } tunic are slashed to the elbow, and ! a startling NEW-bcckle fastens the I high neck: and the belt. We forgot | to tell you that-the skirt is SEVEN j laches from-the floorthe newest | afternoon length.
The LASSIE with a knowing eye
choico of large or small links.
A GOAL for the gdl in the Robin Hood hat! in black, smokegray or: Spanish tile, these hats
of these a Robin Hood ba1 would belle, ilaname. *
WE compliment ourselves on diecovering .some new flnda in handbags. Real leather onesIn styles that are 'usually sold for twice the price. Envelopes, straps, top handles, zippers, all fitted with the niceties we like to have.
WE have almost permitted ourselves to neglect the young woman
r way to find a shop that specializes in just wh&t you want. Among other values we especially noted the sport shoeB. In kid, mandruca leather, and Ireebark,* we saw so many styles tht we couldn't make up our minds which one to tell you about. Youll like the strap oxford with the wing tip and-perforated side, and ou wont be 'able to resist the sls-eyelet tie of mandruca leatherintensely popular' fiamong co-edswith a very, VERY military heel.
The Tartan will be' glad to -furnish the names of the shops where th above items may be purchased...ELVA HENDEU
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1934 _____
C ornhusk er s Like Que en s
Club Notes.
October 10 by a tea in the Recreation Hall In Margaret Morrison College. Included among other rushing events will be a Kid Parly and a Friendship Suppdt1 to be held October 19 and 20, respectively. New members will be pledged to (he organization the second week ' November.'
Officers of the Xi Chapter of
Helen Shaner '35, president, Francis Goodwin, vice president, and Pearl McKiseck, secretary. The
honorary, will sponsor a tea on Friday, October 19, in. the Exhibition Room, College of Fine Arts, at 4:30. All -women music students are invited! Freshmen are invited particularly so thatthe organization may meet and . become acquainted with them. - Sophomore girls have been, . invited to.^play their, various Instruments, although juniors and settlors wfll&Iso'be pa'the ptograini.................
Officer ; for', this yearVlvlan Johnson ^33,.'president;* Betty Watson 35. vice-president and chairman, of ; pledges; Loretta Curry 35, corresponding secretary Marjorie crlbbs 35, recording sec retary; Hilda Ellers '35, treasurer; Agnes .Holst '34, editor; and Gertrude Landis *34-, chaplain.Miss Hulda Kenley and Miss Susan 0.anfleld, of .the Music Department^.advisors. of sthe honorary, will;be present.
the Science Club_________ ..L rison Is to be held , in the Recreaf tEon Hall oh October'25. 'Following the dinner,'the pledges will en:1 tertaln the members. A formal preI sentation of colors will take-place | at the close'of'the program/
Monthly dinner, meetings are .to be held In the'Commons Annex', for club" members and faculty./rbrbugh. out the year the clubwllj/have six Buest speakers drawn from: a; list of - noted . pittsburgh' : physicians, chemists; and/physlclsts.1;- -Thei December, meeting /-will he in the. form of a Christmas par.ty to which' 
sJumna4;.atVriuvi4ed;-r'?tifcX-\Jyaje neeUng^M'vjn^iopinep'.yeOT^.wili JQ in^the ronii of a:picnic " 
;Offlcers ofthe/club are Mlrlan . '35,;preisIdent; tBetty KeD>
le '85; aecretary-treasurer; and Mellon '95/ social chair-:
Nebraska U. Crowns 
Four Co-eds During 
Cllege Year
By MARION SMITH.Lincoln, Nebraska To the students'of Carnegie .Institute of'Technology.Nebraska University has ir esting customs and traditions currlcg each year: Several ofthese customs take place each fall, when new students are .entering upon their college, careens. During
large, affair open to all Nebraska students.
We have several customs which of especial interest to women
freshmen into 'the various actlvl-lies. .The Girls Cornhuskers Costume Party is another affair exclusively for women studenis, and so Is the Co-ed Follies,-each of J-heae groups submit Individual acts. Several acts are chosen and put Jo vaudeville form together
Best Dressed Girl" for the year.Men Wear Onion Corsages - The  Mortar Board 'Party is always greatly, anticipated by the men. This is a vice versa. affair, and sometimes the men take rather unfair advantage of the glrlB. Beautiful corsages, ranging from onions to calls lilllea adorn the lapels of the .men's coatB, and girls can be'' seen carrying around cigarettes, mints and even 'small week-end bags filled with shaving equipment, etc. ThiB ' is ' really a night of revenge, and' the men do. their best to get it.The Pan-Hellenic Banquet is an annual affair. Scholarship awards are given at this time. In the fall, the Dean of Women and her staff always give a. tea for women. stn-v dents.' The men, too, sponsor several
outstanding junior and senior i presents two interesting sb each year. 'Their fallrevlew 1l of our outstanding traditions. This is a vaudeville program : given at one of the large theaters on a Saturday morning before a home foot' ball game.' The acts, submitted by fraternities and sororities, either Individually or combined, are chosen well in advance of the-date, and much time and effort are put forth to present the prize-winning act'and thus win the silver cup. The climax of the morning's entertainment is the presentation of the Nebraska Sweetheart" She -is elected by the men studenta about a month before the show, although her identity is kept secret until this day.Present Original CompositionsThe other traditional Kosmet Klub show.Is given in Xhe..sprlng. Thls ls always a musical comedy, and features are executed by a male cast. The musical numbers used are original compositions of Nebraska students and are written to fit the play which ' is also orglnial. There are usually several pony tfiorusea which add
Another event sponsored by men students Is the .annual homecoming party. It Is sponsored, by Innocents Society, which Is the senior mens honorary. Innocents Society is also in charge of the 
rallies before games,
brilliant affair. The Honorary Cadet . Colonel, who has been
fleers and their sponsors. , Prom Girl Presented The Junior-Senior' Prom, which closes the formal season,- is equal
ly brilliant The presentation  the Prom Girl is the outstan ing feature ol this party, which handled, by a committee of twelve Junior men and women;
Interfraternity Council sponsors
known as the Barb Council. This council sponsors .parties held at the school colosseum about every month;
There are many other customs  could mention, biit l have tried to tell you of the ones which I felt were the most Interesting and successful. I should like, however, to include a description of Iv? Day, which I feel. Is the loveliest tradition, we have.
Ivy Day is sponsored by Mortar Board, senior wome'n'shonorary, and is always on the first Thursday In May. Classes are dismissed for the entire day. The ceremonies are held in a beautiful spot' on the campus, surrodnded by large, old trees. The mornings activities bo gin with th Interfraternity Sing. Keen competition is always evident among ~the fraternities, .for to win first p!*ce. In the Sing is considered quite an honor. At the close of the Bing the Mortar Boards march, in and stand in front of the huge throne. Then the Ivy .and Daisy  Chain Processional begins. Each Borority chooseB two outstanding girls from each class to take part in the Daisy Chain. These girl.? are dressed in pastel shades. The Ivy Chain Is composed of all the senior women,. dressed in white, who form o large circle inside the crowd and wait for Iho May . Queen and her attendants to
Coronation Elaborate Affair
The coronation of the May Queen is an elaborate affair. Thequeen has been chosen by a vote of all the senior women. The girl.polling the second highest vote Is Mald-of-Honor. Two outstanding girls from each class have boen
girls have all marched up to their places on the large throne platformthe iray Queen in white, and each couple of attendants in long spring dresses of a different shade.
This ends the morning events. The afternoon program is opened with the Intersororlty Sing. Usually about eighteen groups enter the Sing, and the reultB show that much time has been spent* on preparation.
After the sing is over, the crowd 
bccomeB restless, for they are about 
to witness what they have been 
waiting for all day. The two senhonorarles are about to make known tHose juniors'who have been chosen to carry on. The MorBoard starts .by marchnf&round through the crowd In-an effort to locate their new members, junior girls have to. sit on theground and. remove their hats. One can seei'thv Mortar Boafd glaring through their black masks,
line up .behind *. row of. chairs upon which the new members will The Mortar Boards then go
iund, they sneak up behind their girls and put n black mask over their eyes. Each neophyte Is then
icorted to her chair amid much leering.
Neophytes' Masked 
After all the neophytes have been masked,, the Innocents begin their activity, which is really activity. . it sometimes looks more like a football game or a free-forterrlbly' dignified and stern, they start their march around . the d. When all their men have been located they, too. start out at a time to tap' the' new One might judge this a very gentle method, but -If you could see It you wbuld be quickly disillusioned. The Innocent takes a .running start from about twenty : or thirty feet in back of his neophyte, then runs and jumps on him. When it is all over, you see two slightly dusty and disarranged figures getting up and heading for the row of
big event of our school year. Sincerely,MARION SMITH, President, Association Women Student Board.
Five Carnegie Profs. 
Listed in Whos Who
Among the 361 persons fron Pittsburgh who were listed in th( edition of Whos Who 11 America, -Carnegie bad five repi s sentatives. They were Dr. Mi 3
tor of the College of Industries. Dr. Malcolm McLeod, head of the Department of English, aiid Dr/ Charles Watkins, director of Mar g'nret Morrison,
This new edition of '.Who's Wlio contains 31,081 names with 3,000 of these being added In the last edition, 1934-35.  Those listed in Whos Who represent Industrial magnates, labor leaders, educators
many other professions.
- Who's Who in America was established in 1899 by Albert M,
1,023 remain in the last edition of Whos Who.
At Syracuse Uni
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
6023 FORBES STREET
DRESS MAKING A^D ALTERATION
MRS. ANDERSON
5176 WOODLAWN AVENUE 
MAyRower 8543 .
Here i is. 
MONDAY.
and I still 
got a 
DOLLAR/
. You, too, can sing the weekly 
' song of ia dollar saved.., may- be more. How? 'Send your 
. laundry home. Ats.no extra 
charge, well-pick it up anytime, take it home, and bripg 
it back on time.. If you arede' pression-conscious, you may 
ev.en send it '6611^*-^
. Make a pomtofsuggesting 
to the folks that they send the'
:. laundry back byRailway Ex926 PENN' 
ATJantic 3600 r . ^j 
Tha beat then ia i
. press. and insure swift and. 
safe delivery.'1'- ;.
You can oouQt on the de
pendability of Railway Ex
cess for shipping anything 
anywhere. We give a receipt 
on pickup. and take'a receipt 
on delivery, double proof of 
prompt a-ndcarefuihandilflg; 
Insurance included up to $50.
For service or information 
merely call or telephone  
VENUE 
- PITTSBURGH, PA. 
i fniiiperH&on .
SERVING THE NATION1FOR 95^YEARS
RAILWAY
EXPRESS
AGENCY, Inc. i
NATION-WIDE SERVICE
Many Dances, Ceremonies 
Featured -Dining 
Social Season
W. S. O. Meets, 
Elects Head
Group Aims to5 Include 
All Women Leaders
The Woman's Scholarship Or
ganization .held Its first meeting of 
this semester last Friday, and 
elected the following officers: 
Mary Jane Provost '35, president; 
Betty McGregor '36, vlco-presldent; Sue Fuller 36, second vlcc-presidont; Agnes Canccllicre 35, secretary'; and Julia Hubbard 35, t;
of Mortar Board, women's national honorary and of Beta PI, sociul sorority. Miss McGregor, DepartSecretnriol Studies, is prosldent'of the junior class of Margaret Morrison. Miss Fuller, Department of Painting and Design, Is vice-president of the junior class of the College of Fine Arts and President of 'Alpha KnpStudies, is president .of the Secretarial Club and president of Alpha Theta Sigma, social sorority.
Debating Union 
Meets Thursday
The Womens Debating Union of 
'Cai-negle will bold its next meet
ing Thursday at 12:30 In room 102 
Margaret Morrison: Marjorie Wein
man 35, president of the organiza
tion, will introduce the topic Estm-Currlcular Activities for Girls, 
which wlll.be discussed in round 
table fashion. All girls who 
Interested lu debatiug pre luvi^led 
to attend this meeting. Previous 
debating experience is desirable 
but not neccssary.
This union wns active several years ago, but for the past few years has been practically non-ox' t. With the success of two jaret Morrison girls-over Ui<? fraternity team in a debate hold early last winter, new Interest was aroused. Sevoral meetings were held ' last spring, and-officers for this year were elected. They are: Marjorie Weinman ,.36, president, and Ida Blekley 37, secretary. The group is sponsored by Professor Lawler of Ihe English-Department.After several i>rellmluavy meetings, competition will he. held lo select a debating team which will represent tlte women of Carnegie in contests with other teams._____
Cwens Entertain 
?Twin Sisters
Dean Green Will Be Guest 
Speaker at Tea Thurs.
Cwens. vomen's sophomore, hon
orary, will have as their guests at 
a tea Thursday afternoon, their 
twin sisters/' women who.'have 
transferred to. Carnegie from o .. other college or university. -The purpose of tho tea, whith will be given In tho Women's Club Room from 4:30 o'clock to 6:00, Is. help thisparticular group of perclassmen feel rnoru at home
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00 Llbernl TtriM . . . Ko Trial RUNT A TYPEWH1TEKFirst Tlireu Months' Mental Applies
FORTPITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIDERTY AVENUE
Cainegle's .campue.- Deon Mary Watson Green, aponof the teat tvJU speak concern*Ing .the life afcd duties of> the girl .at. ...Carnegie. - MJss Winchester, bead .of -Department ^ofSecretarlal Studies wilt also be a, guesf.Barbara Yoakum 37/Department of Painting and. Design and president of Cwens, is general 'chnlrmcm for the tel. Helen McCrea '37, Department of Home Economics, and Hilda Hugh '37, Department of ! In charge of refresh*
Features of the program ar ..to include a skit In Bong by Mary Lambert '37. Department of NursIng;-and a chalk talk. and . skit by Mary Ann Hughes 37,-Department' of Drama.
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundrod Typewriters,  ' les and ited, remonth, flO.OO five, months.
American Writing 
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5488 lee our School representative DICK HAMMOND
THE AMPHIBIANS AW> FISHES ARE 
CLOSELY UNITED BV THE UWD05IREN 
AND NATURALIST'S LOKiib DISPUTED 
ON WHICH-ETC
Im
Jlr
You/will like this delightful way of "turning on your flow 
of energy. Whenever you feel phyed-eue, try dais coaveoieac 
way of ironing out fatigue and increasing your energy: Light a 
Camel. Sooif you will enjoy a definite "lift...an upturn in 
energy...and in good spirits. Smoke Camels all you wish. Camels 
are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS and 
never interfere with healthy nerves. -
SPORTS WRITER. (Xi/ijPatRob-insoosays^IvebceosmokingCamels 
ever since they 
market. I find they erase that -'done 
in' feeling-quickly and restore my *pfp/ J smoke t lcast two packs of 
Camels a day and 1'find that they, 
never interfere with my
EXPLORER. (Right) Capt.RStuart ' Murray, F.R.G.S., says.t/'Its great to' 
be back 11 was in Hohduras^Mosqin. 
. tiaTcrritoiylOmonths, Fortunately
-pick-up in energy . when I. need it i jpzefer.- Camel* 
- davor, they never upset my ner?es."
CAME L S CO ST L li R TOB ACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

TgE CARNEGIE TABTAN. TUESDAY, .OCTOBER 16, 193*
Came jw Sforaa
. PHONE MAYFLOWER :
PoMiihed weekly <
n-Cturf__________WILLIAM LANDSBEBG. M.n.pr________pwoohsvr dwujM.-- oY 1UNET-HAROLD .
UCEA VTt_livinsstu -P EDITt...BEAD EDITOR 
JUNIOR EDITORS: Waite
' FEATURE EDITORS: UrlnsBtonCOP EDITOR: Rol
JEROME HANSON UABCARET GRIFFIN .HERBEBT F. SCHWARZ___DUDLET D. PENDLETONVeronica CWtalS Anas Ladd, Jane
Guatai ccn.
.uv Margwit B&ri*ClilUm Bontellc, Evdb ChceMtnan, lrvlos Gruber, Jaxota LattA, Louise Mlxor. Uoyd Merman thaler, - EiitabeLh Sturt, JlarceJIa Wilburn.
REPORTERS: Toby Cron, Emily Kr tuner, Lonlw Bflldy. Alpha Black, Lewis Brlner, .Helen Bubaom. LoIi Hompr. WllUun Lord. Alberta McClurt,  Adelaide Remington, Wvnry Ryshonek, Katfaeri&c Schrei be Ls. Albert Schwartz. John Shear. James Stewart. Ruth Weiler, Olive Welsh. William .Kolia, Dorothy Booth. Raeetnary Fierce.
SPORTS STAFF:
TYPISTS:
' Virgnia Whatoy. 
. STFF ARTISTS:
, John Welnbers!
Slckenberger, Marjorie .
Those Who Fall by the Wyside
V For. more than eight years progressive fac
ulty opinion has tried to impress upoa the Ad
ministration the need for a student, personnel 
advlGer.  For more than eight years, accord
ing to reliable .informants, the -Administration 
ha answered in subatnnce that euch a. need 
- doeVnot exisL
Considering only the single fact that approx
imately six out of every 10 students who enter 
Carnegie fall to graduate, it is apparent that 
the-Administration has rather complacently 
taken too much for granted. Especially is this 
. evident' when easily obtainable information 
shows that other colleges graduate as many 
: as 72 .per cent of those who register for de
gree courses.
Immediately the question of easier compar
ative currculums arises. To some-extent an 
objection upon auch a basis may be valid. It 
would he, however, more of the nature of an 
excuse than a sound argument. Purdue Uni
versity, for example, took a group of falling 
students and, without altering academic re
quirements, coached them on methods of study 
and' t$me budgeting. The experiment-salvageda sufficient number of students to make it 
more than just a worthwhile venture.
' Businesslike efficiency must come more 
strongly into college administration. No in
dustrial organization would tolerate a condi
tion that permitted from sixty to seventy per 
cent, of Its .raw material to he wasted.;. Yet; 
such a condition is condoned at Carnegie.- To" 
make the situation here, even less uderstand; able, conservative estimates , fix the'schools 
; operating costs at -more than double; the 
amount of money received "from students in 
.tuition fees^
/ That the'Administration Is aware of their 
Tspnslbliity-in this connection Is not open 
to much question! . With* Freshmap'Week it 
! makes a gesture at providing needed Btudent 
orientation.; Department heads, In theory, are 
' Intended to form a decentralized advisory 
. group. In practice, however, this system' is 
almost entirely Ineffectual and inadequate.
A centralized system under the supervision 
of  student personnel officer trained in that 
work is, theTartan believes, the one satisfac
tory medium for  clearing student adjustment 
'problems. It is true that from 1919 to 1923 
Carnegie had something of that sort on the 
campus, a bureau of personuel research.
' That bureau costa lot of money.' It is eaid 
that the Board of Trustees didnt.care for-that 
element of-the bureaus operation,-, eo they - 
' eliminated it entirely. What Is perhaps more, 
to the point, the bureau committed' certain1- 
rather unpolltlc acta.- It tried,' for Instance,- to 
-tell certain-, faculty member's "how, to' teach 
their courses. Now this may have been exact-, 
ly .what they needed.* Experience tells uathatlt 'probably ; vras. But it seems that these in
structors didnt like it, ao the pressure of thepinching shoe mayhave been so managedasto induce sympathetic pains-where they would 
be. certain to Initiate the executive actionthat 
;.Wou!ii',remoyc.theIr..4rritating:raus,..,.
../Having-been burned* once, tire Admlnistratlon may be prejudiced against-personnel offlcrs and their kin. Buteven a. child .who has 
ibeent-brned-: iars, upon rea'cbmg; maturity, 
to control fire so: as to secure the benefits of 
.lta-leat, light and power.. He doesnt clos 
tlS'eyfl and say that he doeantneed It. r 
".The Tartan has a plan which-lt wiil present 
^ii the beMef lhat it Is a definite attempt to; 
ward: Solving the' problem of student. adjust
ment. aid.- Those who fall by the wayside In 
academic or.social defeat are not to be blamed 
:.>_they. ;are. to be helped; Pereqnallty-adjuet^meptcia'..one of the. college student's, largest 
.'Problems;-''and one which directly reflecta it^^rttaln/'their. professed -ideal, of helping 
thS'i Students to liy in iUargeet sen^'thn 
;th^<mu0t; acCeptthls adjustment problem, as
In the first placerons of the few surviving tra
ditions on the Carnegie, campus. As  matter 
of fact, they ^have survived .most traditions on 
theimajority of college campusesof.-theUnited States.
Then th second hant of this group of-stu
dents is that-practically every college fresh-' 
man expects to be treated ln'some way differ
ently from the upperclassmen. The freshman 
feels like a greenhorn (usually) and definitely 
sponsors a let-down feeling if no one pays 
any particular attention to him, oi4 if no one; 
recognizes the fact that this is the freshmans. 
first experience at - being part, of a collge. 
There is not a freshman who does , not regis
ter without furtive thoughts of whether col
lege will be ashe has imagined It. *
And when regulations, are lifted at last, this 
group of approvers' believe, the freshman ex
periences satisfaction in having' passed some 
or successfully weathered some period of 
probation. He actually feels experienced In 
the ways of the campus and counts himself 
i a definite member of the student body. 
Now,-traveling In the opposite direction, and 
echoing their slogan of DISAPPROVAL, an
other group of students are following a trail 
of their own.making. Such terms as hypo
crite may be clearly heard, and such phrases 
treated Jike children are uttered with evi
dent fallaciousness and misunderstanding. 
Whereas in the. approving group freshmen 
3 often to be 6een, scarcely a freshman 
be recognized in this gathering of hearty 
disapprovers. These see only a certain collec
tion of first-year students decked out In arm
bands and ill-fitting dinlcs,. Imposed upon to 
the extent of having to know the college songs 
and having to maintain an attitude of extreme 
deference toward ail ijpperclasszneD. These 
students do not visualize the bit of patriotism 
hich lies behind the. plaid, nor the loyal at
titude inspired by joining in easily whenever 
the school's-songs-are beard, nor the-assur
or fellowship when finally no difference 
of behavior seems to be expected between a 
first-year and afourth-year student,.
By-this time, these two gxoupB of approving 
and disapproving students have traveled far 
and argued bard.- So hard, In fact, that neithnotices that It Is approaching a crossroad 
a familiar crossroad;-the-same from which it 
started out.. And as they near each other and 
meet, the--members-.-of'each group begin to 
mingle as they voice recognition of the fact 
that' prebe regulations do exist, and existing, 
should certainly be not only willingly observed 
but amicably enforced. Hazing is of course as 
passe as hoop-skirts, and quite as undesirable, 
as long as regulations are existent they 
o be enforced. This : problem, belonging 
traditionally to the sophomores, Is at present 
resident on the Carnegie campus. The feel
ing of willingness on the part: of the freshman 
depends entirely upon the business-like atti
tude of reason and friendliness on the part* of 
th "enforcers of the law.  .
The obvious means for coming to an agreeent between all students -Is for everyone to 
assemble at this, crossroadswhere freshman 
regulations are recognized'as an-existent tra
dition, on our campus, and.where. all varieties 
of approvers-and. disapproval's can. come to a 
wise settlement, of the extents, of ;bptii. regula
tions and their enforcement. '
Writers Row
How -Shall We Regard ,
w Regulatioue?
l^^e-^cltsKof *38 has-been' observing; ifreshmifc-reglstfons. wit variug aegitfte of coni^ifenfcloUflpeB. forthree weeks;- Six weeks 
t^'iii^^' aJ.mbands and dinks will. appear 
io^^cjm^^'for^liie.l^time'thls :yar, : an$Vtiie 
5> cl^ii of '38 will*never again feel the dletlne* belug.'-freshraen:--
^Iii-'the -ineantlmep while regulations-ere.-betn'g" 
anforced^- also with' varying-.degrees; of 
clentioupness. the sentiment of the student: au al.. and travele - inopposite 
One-group fallowing the fl&g. of 
feels that plebe^iregulotions:
The Cause of the Charity Ball
The second, annual Charity ' Ball,' sponsored 
by the Carnegie Guild, is to be held this Fri
day night In ThisLle Hall. As a dance, judglngfroin the remembrance of the first Ball last 
year,.the affair serves, well its position as the 
first'formal event of the school year. But 
aside from, pure and superficial social enjoy
ment, the Charity Ball offers the. addltlpnal 
element.of having a Cause.
Causes usually infer, and ultimately mean, 
the acquisition of. money. But beStnd such 
causes there is. ordinarily no higher aim, euh 
service. From the proceeds of Guild activi
ties - this year, certain students at Carnegie 
will be aided financiallyin their efforts, to 
complte that, fundamental period of. their 
liyes-^thelr-college, educations.- >
;- Surely-an extra.glow of enjoyment will cme 
to students.-who, beaidea knowing that they 
iiavc./'had.a goodtime, will also know that 
they h&ve spent a portion of goodwill and a. 
^oost to sme-fellow student..
What Is Being Said
resist iU-r-Dr. Arthur. Irving.
:  Th greatest-check' on -war todayis .the.-fear of any government to put an army into the field. If it turns.against-you.It* is too big for yoii to handle;Prof. Robert Ci Brinkley.,
When any man ventures to scoff, at the use of -brains in government he should be asked e.Ti)lal))- hy what: pArt vof.the. anatomy Jae be^
hungry student - is Invited to wander, blindfolded and sample a hundred viands until his appetite -Is sated and he rolls, under-the table
with Japan, so: she* has'.her own! way.' - In the Jing runher warfever wlil fp.rove^ her' own undoing.--. I* cannotlook '!nt6:,the.-'.future,. but thifl l beiiev^Tr-that. there wIll not be-,a-Russo.lapanese warMn our generation, .because Japan
the leading role In the.cinema of life.- The few W? year are  not entitled the *'Lost Generation; rather It is their parents who are called lost. ' Like so many, who play but minor roles Jn-lifes drama, with the utter naivete of a Baby LeRoy, the ingenues have walked away with the big- gest show since. 1918, the spectacular film released la the years 1929-34.
- In this film, gloom ha6 replaced glamor and poverty plenty. The heroine wears last year's hat, and the hero frequents-the bread line. The villain is an ambiguous one. He may be called the economic sysl torn and disrupted .
Their role exciting or startling. It is a little humdrum, faintly reminiFcent of pioneer days, but the pioneers, haif to build not repair.
The change. broughL about in youth through their new part has been almost . miraculous. The lounge lizard and the . Sapper have become as rare as a five dollar gold piece. .Colleges are'filled with young people who consider having a good time secondary to learning bow to earn a living. And the raiment in which youth adoros itself is no longer the multi-colored coat of Joseph; it is the patient, practical garb Nof, Job. The thoughts youth thinks are not giddy thoughts nor obscene.- - Interests lie not in startling the world but In bettering It. -
the world the young, are being
throng. In Italy there has risen up Mussolini; in Germany, a Hitler. To the young, crying out for direction, such men have seemed a light In darkness. Disillusioned in religion, they have let themselves be guided by personality, powerful but not divine. They have forsaken the thought of their fathers in an effort' -to nvold the mistakes their fathers hava
The general bewilderment parents share with-children. The-'old rods and staffs no longer' comfort; the old remedis no longer cure. The ailment Itself has changed in character. Poverty seems more deadly. In a world'-that boasts of plenty. Some In.-rags and some in-bags and some, in velvet gowns is reality. The horn of plenty doee not flow steadily -nor equally. ' And youih grows grim-eyed and thoughtful.
In -America there has been no organized youth movement to show the trend of youthful thought. But th .general trend
those who regret having only one life to give for their'countrymuch fewer. Paris has retired in favor, of Russia, and Ballyquake Is, like all survivors of a major dig-. aster, shell shockedin their own Ian-' guage,.-punch drunk. ..They do not know whether they are glad or sorry to have resisted the onslaught of death. They,know that by living they have chosen the harder:
. chaos and followera become leaders. Youth, has'been .forced to make its. own adjustment. "
Asa result theyouth-- of today isan - utterly .new1, type.- Their parents - cannotunderstand them; their older brothers and sisterB consider them, a bit pompous and most awfully, dull.. 'Their youth was the flaming one of song and fable.' 'Twas. they
 fortylsb,. bald fish out ' of - water. Still ... bleary-eyed fromtoo much good living,* they have settled down to new povertywith a resignation that .cannot be called ' fortitude. : .
The thingsan experiment; The playboy and girl have j passed away .with' prohibition  and - prosperlty. It's smart :to be Qoor< and hail to - him who keeps a stiff Qpper'lip. Today's . young, want recognition not . pity. They do not choose to hock, they - prefer'
little too blase,- a little-too woFldly>- But the fates have selecied: them for this, the juvenile role . in a major world. drama. They are real .'troupers. Th6 6how\n\ust . go on.BESSIE SCHLESS.
Mi. G. E::A.
_____rtTI*nficle .Tartan.
Temple Uofverafty. (RfCEA) Sti . ________faculty member^ dropped vendettas tempor:
President Charles E.affair, Inaugurated byBeury is an attempt, to escape from the impersonal student-faculty-'relations so common In large universities.
lege editorials-are. more.perfunctory than eftefityf..ibe._fldit.9JS...Qf.-.Tlift.-.J33ilii}f.ipj.r8Ti-oyei. their masthead.in the first issue: It is not the policy of .The Bulletin to print editorials regularly  simply, to fill a column:. Only when the occasionIs important enough warrant the effort and the space will suchmaterial be inted."
' Man. tas. never: tho ght f womnvs .a 'wmanrT-tht.ia'athlking^^eelingcj^ture^en^ tirely seprate f^m;hlmslf.-7-Pringl: Barrt.
grass grow.^Damoi liunyoh:
It Is one of the 'TOOat,-upsetting moments of Jlf0.-whenone .discovers'.that, somataste,, habit. b,r-^^nTd^f::Ju^t'.whIh.GBc--fe^:trj'6tcd'ft>-1^^d^]pppsd^to''be -univrflklils not.
New York University (MCEA)-r-The refusal of offlcials .of. New YorkUniversity to register students in afVears in tuition met. with hrjgoiv oiis resistance troni tlie campiis chaptr bt-the.1 National ' Student: League. ' Members  the" League picketed ; the Washington Square .College of the: University ' dmningthat Uiiose students be permittedto register: regaVdlesa
...Jthe. League .aiso demanded that. It be-made. possiblefori tuitlcB - t5J!vv T3C^ pald - ta :.->s-3kly, .monthly, or quartery Installmetits' without'^extra'-charge;' v . ' -  >   >' ' >;:Defending the: policyof ; thadministratin Milton E.- Loomis of Wasliingto'nS^uar: Colleger:Indlcatedthat no 'etudent ivho-could the future::&sBume the.ot. _ would *bo aUQwed to
----------L__________________
the:obllgatioa:to payan t
SlciLo Hobo
FLASH .... Within a week the sews services will announce the appointment of a nationally-known
OIL CITY SLICKER 37 .... Last year around this time "Toota Bow* tr decided that the plebe grlddei? could limp along-without fciip for week-end. Back to the-scene of his former triumphs be hurrleO. and playing under the romantic nom - de guerre Martin Ga* scored six points ' for bis alma
Oil. CITY SLICKER 38 . . . Mary York has scored/ too. She's the freshman blonde (with coiffure/
damosel has divided the campus to .two fronts: Those-Who HaVe Been Told That They Are Miss Yorks Idea of the Typical Colleg* Man, and three ex-night students.
When the referee finally discovered that the black-and-white vos lng a twelve-man team, he completely demoralized. A' few plays later he awarded the ball to Kisklon a fumble and pile-up. From the bottom of the mass issued a plebes bitter tones, delineating picturesquely the ancestry and personal habits of the harassed official. Tech got the ball.and apology. , .
ngling Kopcsak HI and' unjustly
DELAYED STEAL . . . The ning gown featured on the c of last weeks Saturday evening Post was an item In Evelyn Lelghous wardrobe last year.
HARLOW EVERYBODY... At fi New York parLy this summer it became necessary to Introduce Jean Harlow to Lady Asquith. May I call you-Margott? gushed the actress.Coldly surveying the lush blonde Lady Asquith corrected, Ihe name is pronounced Margow, as in HarEngineering Hall:  ALL STUDS WANTING TO PLAY SOCCER COME OUT FRIDAY,
willing to desert.one certain member of. the faculty for any .interested student body. Those especiEXCERPT . . . Lock of hairKiakiLunchroomRomance. Ses Goody for further details.
looking forweek-end dates the-football, team Is away, just getting' some dope on a CharityBall
cents on .their affair, was the;.< _ door, behind the orchstra stand.
NIFTY. NOVELTIES.. . .. The Michigan State dance' .went off somewhatgetter than the game.
held ; th Stetson, .Mary - Frances
that-the Gottdiner-( Hazel team-failed i exhibition.-:
.CAT.S" .WAY .NOTE'-.. V. : Hottj. ODonnell is playing on the wrong sideofrth fence again. Pitt boy
FROCHT -AGAIN  . JerryOToole, Builder ofMen,- Is now taking E-20 for . the-third time. '
,LA\TRiVIATA . . . Johnny Ford was offered a -ride to Africa, on an oil tanker'last week. "Hot place, Africa . . . -The freshman class Is baffledWhy do they call it tlie Woodlawn Pharmacy if its -located at the corner of Mar^^et^Xor^sonand !Tbes7; this summei -is'stilUa.on'e-horse town, but hov lorsejSteele,. J.h minute plbe center, plays a bull ^ddle at the;Arlington Beneficial. Association s. , Saturday night at-the shuffle a freshman cut,in
enrollment -this yeaiv Apparently the^; buslns -.collapse .has caused everyone. to desi^ 'a wllge edcatlon. .The  Carnegie''repor t'
Morthhi200.;.:eiK!Ollge:-:;Vf-;p;roh^vev';ben:.-:ppolntd':to thithe'l '' ^tin'^ccp'rdiDgtothe/Asspfcl^ted may'get-: bur.^overusf7'ewitlTi thie '^Rbosevl t adniinis'  )g,to the-j '
TeTit^;o'';th'I^ alter!aU
roveV'their,. grade8v ha.- been. devloped^ by,- .Stanford : University itS.taffordr .California)-.:-psvcholog------
SU
ARE ONLY THE FALLEN 
TO BE BLAMED?Current Opinion
With ihe 'adr&t of a ne\-man class there arises p' hlch every first year ma
fres -
________
should face jVw^at .aliout the extra! curricular activities? Every fresh
mh,Jias.:ihe:iirbl6m,iew. realize
drifts'Into oe or. tv/,-then lateafew more .until he or^ahe to .realize .that the activities taking portions of  their tim time that might *mucb betterspent in a morejprofitabie way: 
Lets be frank about It,-find mit that many of our extro-cu*.,. cular.actlvities ere little, better thsn -good -----
have never known the thrill-that comes from reading a beautiful piece of-literature, or'sitting alone musing on questions impossible of answer, or solitarily watching the quiet beauty of the mountains at nightfall. Many .students - donot know the inner glow that comes romhaving .thoroughly mastered 
an assignmentmastered ..In  the sense that they.-have followed the authors - thought-criticising or approving,. and not for.: the-:sake of mere .olass reoIUtJon and grado. To know these joys one must have time and freedom, thingswhichthe student ..-burdened -with -extra-cur.ricular work does not have.: These qualities-, above,-give::Individuality and.culture; too,-many extra-ci*
Murdered in cold blood by the pistol fire of a fanatic as
sassin.' were the words which appeared the country over with 
the jjeirs of the murder of King Alexander of Yugoslavia, leav
ing us with the impression that here was another Lincoln shot 
while doing liis utmost to unite the people of his country. .Petrus Kileman may have.beei.+ ----------------------------: ----------;
expression of a single mans hatred, it was the climax of a tide of resentment which began with the formation of  the Triune Kingdom of. the'Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes.
Belgrade Becomes .Capital 
When the Kingdom was formed in-. 1918- and Serbian Belgrade became the* capital of. the new centralized state, Peter I was the ruler of Serbia. The sudden formation of a parliamentary monarchy which the new Kingdom carried with it,- gave the Serbs an advantage over the other peoples and before a protest - could be.raised, every government office  of any importance was filled by a Serb. Not that Peter-.was, not interested n the...w,elfare o all the.people, but-.he was-past; 70. and .his youngest. son -Alexander, then aboiit 30 and "the moBtpopular, man that e;ver :held power in .tfcat part of the* Balkans," found that-this fitted perfeotly intohis - scheme for absolute;.power., Besidesrthe Serbs liad had some little taste of politics and,' after.- all, Belgrade was their-city. .
Peter I Dies Negleeted -Three yearslater-Peter Tho Liberator'died In a-forgotten corner and Alexander Karageorgevitch ascended the throne, to begin -the rule of terror for which h had so arefiilly 'laid 'the foundations:. That-Alexanders-rule should be one of terror is quite natural when we consider his background. His great grandfatherBlackGeorge Petrovitch, founder of tlie dynasty, raised the : flrSt . Serbian .revolt against the Turkish rule In 1804. He was a gentlecreature,- who openly admitted .haying killed,oyer a hundred men including.his father and Ills' brother, bu t. w&a murdered iq 1817 by:- Milan-'Oiirenovitcli, a swine merchaht and the flrstipf the dynasty to. bear his name.
Historj One of Feds 
- From 1817 on. the> feuds between the Karageorgevitch . and .Obrenovitch families have'made the history of Serbia* ono'of intrigues,' nevolufions. . f-orispira.c-.ies, exceu: tions and assassinations. Peter I, the father o Alexander, was in exile In Switzerland when a revolution In 1903 overthrew the ruling Obrenovitch and called him back to rule his people.-Unfortunately Alexander was influenced |ittle ,by his father who, sys Louis -Ad$a|c,' tliad a, passion for decent-- governmentand', the common peoples well-being."  Before his recall from exile, Pter
had had too little money to give bis children a liberal education and 6o had 6ent them to the Russian court where they  were brought up In the midst of the Tsarist ways and means of Ailing a country.
Alexander Liked Russian Way .
. Alexander .laughed at his father's 
ideas. -For-him the only way was the Russian "way. Consequently In 1933 and 1934 we find' the situation in Yugoslavia a sorry one. I'quote from Louis Adamic whose The Natives Return' most complete picture of the
Sefb political and economic hegemony -which has the entire country at its mercy, and which supports the dictatorship of King Alexander, who is one of them . . It is the capital of a new country, which, since its Inception hasbeen in: political agony, and that agony . v . must be .ascribed primarily . . . lack ofbroad, statesmanship on-the part
land and France might'deem necessary to wage against'Germany and Italy . . . England and Franco were giving: them loans to keep up their army, police force, and terrorist machine; and meanwhile nch, English and other' foreign
natural wealth ploiting its mines and forestsand exploiting its natlvo Workmen - under ' the protection of the terror rule which their money supported. 
Rulers LikeRacketeer
A Belgrade professor ' remarked to Mr. Adamic, Their urges (the ruling group's) are the same as those of your American.racketeers, Every once in' a while .gruesome crimes occur.Iu-our upper.circles: They kill.one another over businessdeals. They hire men to do away, with their'competitors.. Rich' found mysteriously dead; often enough. Our ' king
.By. this wve do not mean that the stiident. should^ahun.Tall, ; extracurricular.,work, as though It vero the. plague.. .Rather we mean' that be%should regard It as. distinctly secondary in - importance,., and something that should on no account he-allowed to* detract frtm the central purpose for his cdmlng to'college.The Juniatlan ' '
. THp OTHER .S1DE; H
made the 'experiment'Tfii, he did it .fpr i'fun^-ind' fun.^he had: The food was^good,' and h was'not once laid low by a belaying pin or a handspike.:.^ Undoubtedly' the "Iefned ech; lasiic - acqulred 'mbre real; learning In his brief oceanic1' career than: li cold haV fo a longef tfm in the presidential ' chair; ;: and it makes you-wonder how any man,:Cffn call hlmelf well-educated ' untlf h Ti seen how the* other-: fellow-lives. If every' captain ;of induetty had to spend .afi.pccasionfll stretch In'-'lhc ranks,' If every - SVashJngton -rain: trstr had to earii' hs living fr 
la -:in'std-Mi)f i'Bte i'd to
he-would -be: i.. _ ... ______hitherto '. "considered beneath his dignity and-calling. And deflation of the-ego-is one thlng-a-college education does npt always,: Include. The pail^';Gilifomta,h.. ).
A sophomore at Cornell, asked-- how he coiildi differentiate a professor from a . Student.^^osw.er^d, ask: him whatV'il.- 'la,' an4:rif -he says .It is a , pronoun, he's prois a gloriiled" A1 Capone. To in power,; lie employs on. the whole th&. Eftne! methods.terror. :
The papers speak of a possible military.. control, of Jugoslavia. How ;else' caif'a; country which has been held* in check" by force and terror be kept intact A Icing who has been a. dictator issuddenly snatched from the picture^ leaving ft group of. bewildered yi&'a-nien to carry on. Only by fortfe will these
: A - psychology:, study:: at .P.urdu6Unierslty. ; attributes the.-r<ai;s^a _of 
student -worr};ito: .'flnaoces 0: per. centi-grades 42- perjc cent,-famll ifffttrs-. l ;per: cent, ;Iv,e).affairsj9 per. .cent, .and .religion.-;^ :perucenti
jtudentss r.-hlod,.'^ngi6j6n^
arsity: ...The' W.' c: T-. :tT..has sen enlisting the aid of science i determine - it .th' alcoholic-, counts. of lipallck is, Sufficient ..to ake It lntojd'catig: :;i; ' '
people,.who.have :ben\th^s'iexjp^tl
nothing tough about my throat JhafsThere's nothing t 
why I smoke Oldi says^J

---------------------------------------------------

THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
  ...
BY JERRY HANSON
IN THE BEAUTIFUL surroundings of Michigan State University In East taneing, J.he Carnegie football teaiu staged a fight which, will be remembered lor years lo come. .Tbe. State lads made Up one tough ball club, and for pure offensive playing they had It all over the Plaid. But the Tartans held out with such determination that.it tools all-the Spartans reserve and the .firsthalf peridd to wear the. Scot ranks phys^ ically to a point where the State threats could be made good. The Michigan aggregation, accomplished in every phase ot the art of football, deserved to win, but to Carnegie we .offer the loudest ovation purely for its Btnnd when faced by overbearing odds.
TINY TIM Terebus ' the fact that the Spaj played a pretty good offensive game, and was brilliant'on the defense. Doloway .was prominent, and he eaused the State team some discomfiture in getting through, the line for some excellent smearing. Lewis showed up again in theusual light, setting the Spartan runners, on the ground for frequent losses. Mltims Kicking' deserves plenty of merit. Big Joe got off some swell boots, which were made less effec-only because of State'si back the punts. One. of Jo<
ouchdowne whileIn there. Why he was jerked'is a mystery, which ranks with he Sphinx. Many of the. players on the Tartan string seemed erworked,. and It is wondered at that th<that of the Sphinx.
Test while some second stringers enjoyed th useful .experience.of substitution. Doloway played a-whale of  game, but he couldn't help weakening after undergoing the contindoiis battering which that position Is wont to receive. Meanwhile, some, of the .boy'are missing entirely the dirct contact, of playlng.ln the. game, and ar forgetting the ways to respond to th football Instinct.
ALL THE INJURIES of the game were-not very' serious. . In fact most ot them-were merely charlie horses, inflicted by the weight of th tale team's men when falling on our boys, Terebus and Lewis oach left the field with a case of cramps in the legs. . Paul Moore, however, was less luck?, - for .he got into th gme just long enough to receive .a kick in the face, causing'his . immediate removal from the field, and the taking of three stitches in his forehead. '
s of the players stampeded :the side lines v and all. Graham and Bill Stearns sounded good to rooters. The NBC hook-up was quite a surpi Namee wa q
tethered Tartan st of them. Mehich the. ladies from II. He seemed quite enthu: players'for th announcers Ex-Coach Wally Steffen, ex-ed two yearsThe Michigan Stattprecision..band was snappy as they go. It marched with and formed an M. S. C. with no, more trouble th;squads right." The Spartan crowd effervesced school spirit. Thi cheers were loud and precisereally stupendous.
AFTER THE GAME .. . . Canada and the rest. Some nice people -were met The.rlde home was brightened by the discovery of a stowaway. Naughty-boy Clyde - Giechel was. the culprit, alias the "earlyrlng poker-player." The idea wasnt so bad, but it 'roysed everyoneAt the improper hour of two a. iised the trainmen
nifty ,:ntatioTHE Y. M. C. A. WAS RESPONSIBLE f< of the grid-graf. The stage was set on the curve of the "di the Forbes Street-Cut corner, of the Brown House. A bar was put up at the entrance to the'stable proper, and cider, doughnuts and popcorn balls were served, gratis. A happy throng of sixty Techites .enjoyed th' affair.' The game was Interpreted as the account eam6 over NBC. ,iNlce golpgl " .
THE SOPHOMORES will have some reason for Ignoring those husky jlebe footballers now: The 18 to nix victory of the Plaidettes over .the Kisfcl prep, squad will give the freshmen a; little-needed official excus ior-sappearingsans regulations, as the tradition goes.  Passing, and speed on the run were the outstanding parts: of the plebes game. Coach OToole wont let ou.t any' inBide dop on ihe boys. He doesnt want them to become ' brrei-heded, which is indirectly promising.
Spartans Beat Plaid 
In Hard Fought Fray 
Showing Each Strong
Bad Breaks Put Tech 
On . Defensive For 
Most of Game
Notre Dame Next On Tartan List; 
Showing Usual Class, Beats Purdu
Kicking By Mihm 
Keeps Score Dowii
Tartans Display Uncommon 
Strength and Fight in 
Holding Spartans
The Carnegie grldders lost on of the cleanest and hardest fought games of. the season to Michigan State, at the Michigan team's home, stadium at Lansing, last Saturday. Although the Tartans were finally beaten by a score of 13-0, they put up a great fight, und managed to keep their opponents from scoring throughout the whole of the' first half.
The Spartans proved themselves tu be the superior team, beyoud doubt, for their team-this season is One of the best in their gridiron history; So far this season they have won throe successive games. Last-week' they .started the onslaught which is dragging Michigan University off its pinnacle at tbe top of the Big. Ten.
Plaid Best on DefenseThe. Plaid outfit showed up to the beBt advantage when they were in the most precarious , positions. Their best playing of the afternoon was done when the Spartans had forced their way down the Held until the line of scrimmago -was in the shadow of the Carnegie . goal posts. Several times th Michigan State drlveB got within scoring distance, but the Tartans braced themselves, as if they were backed up against a stone wall, and drove ofC the onslaught, in the third period, however,, the. dreadnaught machine ot the Spartans became too powerful; and: they .put over their one touchdown. Later in the same chapter, they added to the score by making a successful attempt for a field goal. -
 Spartans Deserving
The statistics of the game Bhow that the Michigan team undoubtedly deserved the victory, for it certainly outplayed-the Tartans in .all manner ofcomparison The first downs for Michigan State totalled 17, while , the Tech team managed lo make only five, and the yards gained from scrimmage were 276 as compared to 65. Only in punting were the Spartans outclassed. Joe Mihm. put forth spine of his - best efforts, and his kicks were really something  to talk about. In the , third quarter, Mihm got off  punt which, carried 93 yards for one of the nOBt beautiful kicks seen in a long time Ina total of ten punts, Mihm averaged42 yards.
Stevie Terebus was once . morti the outstanding man on the field for the Tartans, but' he was. very ably assisted by the whole team hi getting away lth what he: did. Forthe Spartans, Ed Klewlcki. proved himself to be a really great ballplayer. At bis position at end, he stood out.by far as the best player of the day.
Tartan Harriers 
Begin Practicing
Freshman Candidates Urged 
To Report Immediately
The cross-country call for both freshman and varsity candidates Issued last week and, accordA strong aggregation should.
improvement withpractise, and several promising sophomores fro: last years plebe . team look like (hey might be of great help In
for the Bquad to report to Coach Halforty in the gym and start to work The sport ' ular one and, whether experienced or not, the man partlcipatibg in either meets or practises is assured of healthful exercises. Numerals are awarded to freshmen and small varsity letters to upperclassmen registering the necessary, number of points in the course of .thi son. Any freshmen considering track for the coming spring should report for cross.preliminary instruction in the fine points of running, as this Is really a pre-season practise for the Plaid cindermen. Coach Halferty urgi all plebes with any ability, whether experienced or not, to tryout,It is not an overstrenuous sport < does not involve the purchase of expensive equipment on the part of the candid: 'At the present time there are six outstanding plebe the team. Those lads, who have been doing promising-, work,.Crotsley. pan Supon,.Dave
A freshman at Marshall College raised a minor rumpus when he wrot.e an authoritative theme n
Tartan Fe&hmen 
ffiii From, Kiski
Uncovering '. snooth passing attack. the. Carnegie freshman rotdefeted the Klskl Prep
Rosenthal netted two touchdowns for Tech while a run by Natelan, who looks' like a. vory promising ba.ckfleld man, resulted in Ihe other score. In the last minutes of the game, Coach OToole sent in his eseryes .to.combat the repeated a
showings from these boys it this game is an Indication of their po tential abilities.The lineup of Fridays game folL.T.......Snminlio.............J CamlmlL.G.......Keller......................... MndilC..........Miskivis .......................PaulR.-G... .Gartz.................... SchmittR.T......Sutherland .. ScliocnbaumR.E......DIDominlco .. .. Robinson(Jin......Kopsack.............. HnrkleasLH.........Natelan .lt.H.........Fayer ..F.B.......Yeknlck .
(From all appearances at tho 
dinner :last Monday night,', the W. 
A. A. Is developing Into a bigger 
end belter organization, than over 
beforeat.least It will be better in 
the football stadium, tfiough some 
folks.may still be wondering, what 
football has .to .do with women's athletics. 1 must say that wo gave surprisingly. good demonstration our cheering ability I'm sure that our cheerleader's heart must have swelled with pride at our generous , respouse. Coach' Harpstnr, however, was the high light ot tho occasion when, in silent roply to his little pep-talk, tie received our pledge of cooperation la boosting his team t-p victory. .Now. that these glorious, colovCalls Made For 
Tank Candidates
Mr. Risedorph, coach of 
the varsity and ' freshman 
swimming teams, has issued 
the call for varsity candi
datos for Monday, Octobcr
is beginning to round out into a well formed team. The call has also been issxied to candidates for freshman manp. in. or Fridays at 5:30 p. m.
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
IHaufla
Students, Artists and Engineers Supplies 
School Seal Jewelry and Stationery
Wo mens Athletics
S q jA
MARGIE GREftthe courts on our .way to the Hut It would almost seem like the gon'il i>ld summer Ume to he playing again, wouldnt .itt -I notice that
are lucky, you might still be playing at Christmas: time, or should I say, Thanksgiving?
Tennis became so popular last 
Spring that Miss liuseel decided to 
give instructions.during gym aWlluS an idea which proved so profitable that she will probably repeat it this year,.
. By the way. Ill lot you in on a little surprise, in store for you next spring (wo hope).  The W. A. A.
will be entitled to the exclusive .use ot & brand.new tennis .court which la now undor construction-vn the. h....bwhlnd the Brown Housed. Perhaps'-you have been -wondering what those -work" - men up - there have been .'digging for; lately,' and now you know. JuBt be carful .that you don't let them lstraot you. (as they do ni) when you are trying to study'ln theHut, 
Tho court wiil be.of composition 
material (always a big help m ' 
damp weather),, and consequently 
will solve, the Inevitable, problem., of rolling and. lining.- Another attractive feature, is the fact that anyone, providing.she is a member . of the W. A A, may play ire. of charge . .The present system - of . points will be continuedJJ5 points awarded for th quarter finale, GO. for thesemi-finals, and 76 for the flnalB. .The. tournament . tor this fall will, lake place eomotiino In the near future. Keep watchlilg
New England found that tho lamps crimped their style. With eimplo but destructivo loeio they decidcd to extinguish tbe lumps
HURRY 1 HURRY!
A flood had cnpplcd three important electrio motors in the refinery of a largo oil company on the Bland of Aruba, SO milca uorth of tho coast of Venezuela. Tho plant had to bo shut down until new coils could he installed. Losses caused by tho shutdown ran into thousands of doliate a day. An order for the coils and word of the refinerys predicament reachcd Conerai Electrio in Schonectody, N. Y., on o Sunday morning. Work began immediately, and by dint of night shifts and a great concentration of'efforts, the two-and-one-holf-week job wuB completed in three days. The'808 pound shipment of coils, convomontly packed in small cartons, was flown in a chartcreaplono from Schenectady to th Newark. airport, where it was transferred to an Eastern Air Lines plane bound for Miami. On Wednesday aing the cartons were transferred 
hop
ies. Their dim was so good that repairmen of iho utility which serviced tho lights could hardly keep up with llicir doprcdatioaB. Finally, G-E illuminating engineers were called in to design a fixture to foil tho stono-throwing llomeos. Theso engineers' produced a castaluminum guard, winch looks very uiuch like
Rs uLBm.u
The.artiCoiol lightning boys have beaten nilightning in ono regard, at any jato. Engineers in the General Electric high-voltage laboratory have produced discharges of a auartcr of a million amperes, which is greater than the current - of any .aiicot lightning stroke yot recorded.
:cived by (conerai xJe tion College,.!! and (
have been asked 1 foma, but novcr befoi against Cupid. Thishow it came.about: > did their courting in tain lighted roads in
of any .ducot lightning stroke yot recorded. Jnst as natural lightning,. with amporogo almost as groat, destroys that which it strikes, so does tho laboratory discharge; and just.aa natural lightning is. accompanied by thunder, the laboratory bolts have their ear*splitting crashes. A copper wiro a tenth of an inch in diameter is completely vaporized. A similar piece of iron wiro io exploded," tho remaining ends continuing white hot for soveral sccoods. A section of rcinforccd concrete is broken into bits. The hnndlo of a silver-plated ice cream spoon vanishes with a shower of sparkB, Theao engineers wero thofirst to produce 10,000,OOO.volt artificial lightning discharges, and they are continuing their studies through these high-current discharges, in.order, to find hotter means of protecting alee trio distributionKitems. K. B. MoEacbron, Ohio Northern, 13, rduo, *20, M.S., is director of the laboratory, and associated with him in those tests aro: AV. L. Lloyd, Rensselaer Polytechnic Ini18; J. L. Thomasoi............... *Harding. U. of Arize land, Yale, '29.
GENERAL || ELECTRIC
Notre Dame has always one of the biggest obstacles in the path of the Plaid grldders, and from
th up and up. AVIth this new coaching staff and plenty of material to work with.
s-Purdue game last Saturday
teams scored on. fumbles so that the game was iiot much of an indication of'the'strength
seemed to lack coordination. However, this-seonis to-haveibeen.j rod up during the past week,
That game between Notre Dame and Purdue may 'prove to be the means for measuring' the strength of the Plaid team, for Purdue follows Notre Dame on the Sklbo schedule. Just how well or how poorly the team shows up against Notre Dame may be some Indication of what to expect the following week.Ajothgr..future opponent of the
Carnegie Soccer 
Hits Good Pace
The .Carnegie varsity soccer team' Is.making rapid.^stride's,toward! be? coining formidable -teaVfi ., T>Juss Evans, an old time English soccer player, ie coaching the club. About twenty-two  candidates have reported ior practice and areworking ^ut daily. ' While no attempt has.
Reed, Greene. Prenden. aiid' Ca.D-. tain Freddie Dubln have been ..workicg; together as.a nit and ftp: pear to form the nucleus .of a bet/ter-than average aggregation. CanJ wanted.- Report anyan . the - mushball. field........................being made-up whichwill.-probably y-liiclude-gamesvwitli
.* ter-than averag Adidates are w
 /day at ,4:30 or :\A schedule is I
EDdNrF AUeghenr.'iSllppery, Boot,
Tartans did not fare so well this 
past week. NewYork University 
was badly swamped by a team from 
West Virginia Wesleyan. Tho N. 
Y.U. .team made its only score 
early in the game when a success
ful attempt was made for a field 
gol. The rest of the game was un
doubtedly In the possessiou of.the 
West Virginia'outfit, however, and 
they finished up with a score of 
21-3.Tmple University pAyed Indiana to a 6*6 tie. Each team opened' up during the'game, Temple usln un aerial attack throughout. The iva.ll want back and forth in a puw.tIng exhibition. The Temple line suuwiju up'to be quite strong., puquesne beat a tough Bison aggregation last ' Friday nlfclit 'on Forbs.Field, .The Bucknoll squad .held for three quarters of the game, but . succumbed to a 'sustained f$- yard drive during the fourth. The second, scose was on a pass intercepted'by the Hilltoppers, which' totaled them 12 points to 0. Eacii f tUe teams showed powerful line*.
HEALTH BULLETIN]
1. . Learn, to Relax. ..Relaxation is th greatest ene- my of fatigue.2. Set up. a wholesome, healthfulphilosophy of life.3. Concentrate on a task unIs conquered. Meet problems by activity rather than by day dreaming.
DINE and DANCE 
;S GRILL
MURRAY AVENUE and DARLINGTON RAb
Home Cooked Food Moderate Prices
NO COVER CHARGE
there's nothing io stop .ME
Ofcourse, yon could takeBiUs sister 
to the Home Game .and Dance* 
r whta-Tier-name, th professors 
daughter. But fibw 'much better 
to telephone the-Girl Back Home 
and invite her -The cost is tri 
fling if you take advantage of the 
low Station to Station Night Rates
MM
Crop
7fyTSZftmfo
JLou get in Luckies the finest Turkish-and 
Domestic tobaccos that money can buyonly 
the clean center leavesfor these are the mild* 
est. leaves-rthey tost more rthey tastebetter.
, Its toasted
'V Your throai Protectionagainst trHialtonogatnst awth
yai

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKVEG1F. TABTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 393*
THE 
C ARNE G IE 
P LAID
Inserte ^ci sf\?tWtajq
The Retiring Council
The elections that bare bees 
"held recently mark the ad ol the 
tena of office for several of lie 
la embers of the Night Student 
CcosiciL It will be well 10 take 
this opportunity to express lie 
general satisfaction 0x3.1 should 
erist rh regard 10 the fine work 
deae by this group. Many of tie 
225r roles and retaliations pDrenjing elections. eligibility. tbe use of 
official ballots ass similar actions 
iaiea by tbe retiring Council areof their efToiBible
tire night student body. The Plaid wishes to join inti tbe nigbt stodeats in coagTatulatmg tie members of tbe Council tor tbeir good work. and express tbeir appreciation for tbeir efforts.
Beginners
Sisee we all hare to bejSa some time Tvith any new idea or project we wish to carry ont. we mar as -well appreciate that there reali?
?-those stui to indulge in e-Tbra-curricular jjtj^ ia' activities, bet who are coatiaually putting off getting started rata tie a ext function.' Tier Bhocld remember ibst tie Insignia Atrard of the Nigfci Student Ccn&- dl is. awarded on a point basis, and that -while tie aamber oi points rO'Tnired are not great, it is almost impossible to schirre a suifiaeat number if tbe worker gets off to a late start. For this reas&a. those interested should begin at cot*? 1 <^voj?r3ie -witi -e Cecil and tbe oSIeers of their respective college ia lie Trunk that
Contributions
While running tbe risk of bec-oming boring by again bringing up this time TTorn subject, -we must again inienn the stadeat body
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
Ycii'rr telling me?
That the ConncD referred a wooden knocker last year. Well, rn -wondering who created, the
be glad to parchase a plate or sil; Ter so as to ax my name ia bonor of tbe doaor. that is. proTjded the gift of tie token were
: honored by bei
and records  I am going 1 : two donatio)-1 bsj
That tbe past three issue? of tbe Tanaa are huadingers. "Who said the depression -was here? liosks as if the bottom has dropped out of gloom aad -we are ha-ring old times back. "Why. 1 hardly have tine to read all the Tartan news. Goes? Til ha-re to speed up jay reading so as to keep abreast ol
t the College Comic f i the lime light for sals bere6 where 1 shine, can be found' anywhere
ng their ctutT you'll 1
Thal, I forgot to mention. somejotiy gypped me. I didn't receive Djcopy of tie handbook daring and judging from all
Reference Department 
Source of Informotion
Students are frequently required to do teasive reference reading is. connection with tbeir school work. Tbe Carnegie Library and The cormbatiOBS should be careHut ?re so well supplied -with relaBy -written and submitted in
Industries To 
Vote Saturday
Officers To Be Elected 
At Smoker in Union
The College or Industries -will 
bold tbe first affair of the current 
social season on Saturday evening, 
October 20, is lie Union on the 
third floor of tbe Administration 
bail ding. This **01 be tie anneal 
smoker aad election. These al
lairs haTe heretofore been much en
joyed and -well attended, and it is 
tbe earnest wish of tie committee 
that this be tbe largest aad best 
attended election smoker ever held 
oa the campus.
He chief reason for holding tie 
Einoker is lor the election of school officers. This should not be lost tie slgbl of those attending. Tbe
lie ballots cast with tie idea mind that those elected to office will be truly representative of tbe students of tie electoral group. In view of the new regulations recently issued by Council
Council Votes Sam 
For Two Projects
Endowment Fond Gains $275 
By Recent N-S.C. Action
At the last meeting of tbe Night 
Student CoonciL a action was pre
sented and approved whereby the 
Council agreed to contribute the 
of T100 toward lie erection of 
tbe proposed  Activities Building, 
swelling tie stun for that purpose 
wS23.S0. Another action of Coauril was the presentation of toward tie cost of redecorating and refurnishing Thistle wait While stem will aot ctrver the entire cost of tie work It is felt that it will express tie Interest of
eligibility of caadl-for tbe st i the previous records of the men th they inThe smoker wl also provide students with an opportunity to ram sooB of tie points necessary for obtaining tie Night Student
interested in working for these required poiats should present ibemThe presentation of your regulation card is all that is necessary o gain entrance to this allair.
Decision Reached 
On Representation
Night Student Council Votes 
On Important Subject
The question of representation under the new set-up of Eagin&erat the last meeting of the
Coeds at Duke University complained of the table manners aad actions of the student waiters.them Three of Tbe South's leading gridmen. Duke Tarsity 
football players immediately led a large group of men students in a > speak or dance
equested. They sb. typewritten in doable spaced form, a carbon copy seat to the Night Student Council. Several contributions have been received were not signed. Naturally, nbt kuoTrinj; tie name of tie contributor it win be impossible to jcrsilit tie author of tie article for idsw<jrk. Be sure Jo sign yeur coaRegistration Figures 
Skote Large Increase
Perhajis one of tie most encoarreports ol the trend xoward higher edctstion that been issued since tie beginning of tie dethe same period last year. It is Tecy pleasing to all concerned aote the upward
all kiad^ that thej ormatioa oa almost any subject in lie mass of books, technical papers and periodthat in many aflable material is Tolumiaoas. that ti^-student has Iroable is picking out tbe
While theses repaired of tbe caaditbe Bachelor of Science Degree in the night school do not necess2T' coatain original material, i
> of all ties as are available i either one. cr boli of the lihraes, aad students who baTe library Assigaments will often ad that by referring to these theses lie: and effort, aad
s total registration is exCollege of Industries 767. Coliege of 3%ie Arts 57-L - r'isures or a cmparatire period of last year are College of Eagineerith the College of Engineering, the Conncil has issued the fol lowing statement: The College Of Engineering shall embrace only degree courses aad the College of industries shall include the vocational and general studies groups unless otherwise noted by the Director of Night Courses." The CoiHeres a story coming from the Ohio State campus: An EnglishprofeRsor at thai institution called
alter the class beendismissed, aad asked la a harsh voicewhether he Sn?w tie essay he banded in was one of Emerson's. The boy tarred white and said ia
material they wish t
Is recognition of his 50 years of service at State Teachers CoiIe6e> Fannville, Ta, Phillip Ward, gro head cook, has been awarded
ibere is yet some hopes for :
School Reminiscences 
'Sought by Plaid Staff;
about telling os about some of the
ln7 things used to go around here away back when. Why not send in mm material for publication oa . the Plaid page? The staff would " appreciate nothing bitten its.a some good old rarcs ahoat what and how things used to happea aroond Carnegie. Such articles will bold'a greiit amount of inter-- est icr the readers and ihei knowledge gained should help the, present students in forming a gooo | ' background as to the general history of ihelr school. This is not to . mention lie entertainment gained ' by tie mere reading of these stories which are sure to coniaia tints of humor sprinkled througbPiaid Intends -X& MdU 
Pictures of Officers
i short 'hisof oarfi uieinber elected to the NI^iL Student Council will be a weeklv feature at this pap^ ginning in toe near futureTbe article will cover the entire Counrfi gaff one -eschveek. ^nth the president and" continuing * throughout the entire persoaneL
Tiesearticles will be presented l .iman aUeanpt u> acquaint - night students with
OC Che 1,046 applicants
hiitiI got it TK
C.S. EDMAN 1
PRINTER ! 6470 Monitor Street !
[Ljbertg Engraving Gompangf
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS \ 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. \ 
PHOTOGRAPHY. V 
COLOR. NEWS n COMMERCIALI
CathedralMansions
DINING ROOM 
/er SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, 
served well, in a | 
pleasant place |
BREAKFAST. LOMCH AND 
OlHHEtl EVEBV OAY
/trPmdt P.'a
Call MISS DRISCOLLForiesCTsoaiA.saivr StSO 
EHymstb Avesse sad Ojdc Sacs
Didja Notice
THAT it wont be long now until all of the elections are over. Tbe strain has been terrific, but all hands are present.
ves a big hand.official ballots Deahl Deabl itzy though?
THAT what with St. Louis in 
centrate on the lo?al pigskin*
s -thirl and III be
A dean at the Unive.-sity of Neignorance, aad faculty iateliigeace. kept them waiting.
Prerequisites 
Ara Abolished
Chicago TJ. Meets Demand 
Of Special Students
In a recent news article clipped 
from a Pittsburgh dally, vre learn 
that tie Chicago University has banished so-called Ted tape ia dispensing eduction. This University seems id be taking the initiative as regards education ia a great many respects, its latest move is along the same lines.Prerequisites are often stumbling blocks ia education aad heretofore this iron-bound rule or code has been ia operation. Now. however, tie Chicago . University is permitting students to register for courses without m eetdng any of tbe required snbjects. This system is ia operation for those students who are not seeking degrees. Suci students arc designated as students-al-large. An that needs to be done by lie ap-| plicaat is LO show that study of the particular course would be of pro.1t
While the action of tie heads of lie Chicago University in dispensing wi;h tie prerequisite system isi the ientirely new. m Carnegie, in the night
to meet the needs of applii deals by offering conn teria fashion. That is. iaite program for a particul; coarse is mapped out. a stude; need sot follow that program, large number of our students con
Carnegie is doing all possible arraage matters jt aid the stadeat. Tbe Pittsburgh district is being read ere d a Tery commendable service by the Carnegie Institute of Technology in this manner, by aiding employes. &rsi to consolidate their positions, and secoadly toi_halwini thei
mmdie a def-1
The Psychology Department of ;
'Yeah! 1 know theyve got a bigger 
house, a bigger mortgage, and a football captain, 
but one of our brothers has a FORD V*8'
"dates thal
Announcing the Opening o 
 Ye Campus Barber Shoppe |
IModem Equipment 
EfficientService 
Fair Prices
 Ye Campus Beauty Shoppe 
9 The Students Book Co-op
(Formerly Located in Skibo Tnn)
Corner Margaret HoiTison Street and Forbes 
Below Woodlawn Pharmacy Phone Ma. 3921
FORD ttV8"
BUY YOTTB
NEW
From.........McKlNLEY-GREGG
447 NORTH CRAIG STREET 
Any and AM Makes Taken in Trade
LIBERAL ALLOWANCE . . . TERMS TO SUIT 
~ Complete
DAYand NIGHT SERVICE 
> MA. 6042
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
3875 BIGELOW BLVD.
USED CARS
3 A A I^te Models To * v ^ Select From
*25 to *2500 Tr~r
USED CAR DEPARTMENT
5638 BAUM BOULEVARD
K
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
?
IN THE 
CENTEfi OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
?
MTTM-R-gR FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
air enou,
F
IOM time to time we tell you facts 
about Chesterfield Cigarettes.
We say that Chesterfields are different 
from other cigarettes-that the tobaccos 
are different, the paper is different, and 
the way they are made is different.
Everything that modem Science kmros
ighabout or that money fan buy is used in 
making Chesterfield a milder, better-tast
ing cigarettea cigarette thzt Satisfies.
You can pro^e xclidt we 
tell you about Chesterfield.
May wee ask you to try them 
that tcould seem to he fair enough.
.;i 
the cigarette thats MILDER 
the cigarette tht jBujMu lMjjMm
@ iSM. ticM.'r & Utas Tosass Co.
SATGftDAT 
KINO CRETE
PONSE1XE MASTINI STOECKCOLDj 
KQSTOJLNETZ OKCHESTKA AND CHORUS \
S P. M. (E.S. T.) -^COLCaiBU JKTWClt -S
