Fourth Football Dance 
Saturday Evening, Oct. 23 
Carnegie Union
TECH vs. CINCINNATI 
Saturday, October 23 
Tech Athletic Field
VOL. XV. No. 4.
MEMORIAL SERVICES FOR 
MISS FRANCES CAMP PARRYCEhr Ciaran
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
PLAID ELEVEN WHIPS GROVE CITY21-3
OCTOBER
Frances Camp Parry was born in 
Constantine, Michigan, on April 21, 
1876. Her father, Thomas Parry, was 
pastor of the First Presbyterian 
Church in Wilkinsburg from 1896 to 
1906 so that a part of Miss Parrys 
early life was spent in the Pittsburgh 
district. She was educated at Coates 
College, Terra Haute, and at the 
Pennsylvania College ' for Women, 
and was graduated from Smith Col
lege as Bachelor of Arts with distinc
tion in 1899. From 1899 to 1903 she 
taught English and History and act
ed as Vice Principal of the Ilollidaysburg Seminary; from 1903 to 1907 she 
was teacher of English in the Pitts
burgh Central High School; 1907- 
1908, Assistant in the Department of 
Fine Arts; Carngie Institute; from 
1908 to 1911, Head of the Department 
of English in the Allegheny Prepara
tory School. In 1911 she came to the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology as professor of English. Her worth and 
ability were soon recognized and she 
rose quickly to be Head of the De
partment of English in the Margaret 
Morrison Division, and on the reor
ganization of the institution, Head of 
the combined English Department in 
all the divisions. The work assigned 
to her was heavy but she carried the 
load gaily and*her fine spirit and in
tuition aided her in building up a 
strong and well balanced department. 
She died at her home at 5708 Forbes 
Street, at noon on Saturday, Octo
ber 16.
No praise of Miss Parrys work in 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
can be too high. She was a vital and 
integral part of the institution, her 
work was an inspiration to others. 
She was a teacher of great ability, 
knowing how to deal justly and firmly 
with the conceited or wayward and to 
give comfort, help and encouragement 
to the timid and backward. She be
lieved that teaching was a fine art, 
knew the value of the work done 
within the four walls of the class 
room, and was punctual, businesslike 
and professional in all her official 
duties. She knew her subject thor
oughly and had that rare and real 
perception of literature which is so 
difficult to acquire and so valuable in 
the acquisition.. She was greatly' be-1 
loVed by all the students who had the 
good fortune to be enrolled in her 
classes and by the members of the 
staff.Miss Parrys life was devoted to 
others. She had never fully recover
ed from the shock of the death of her 
little niece in the winter of 1920. She 
had spent long hours at the bedside 
of this little child for whose educa
tion she had laid aside part of her 
salary. During the last summer va
cation she gave up many weeks to 
the nursing of an invalid friend. These 
services prompted by a generous heart 
told upon her strength. In spite oi
lier somewhat lowered vitality she 
came back to school in September 
full of optimism and the desire for 
work and improvement. When she 
came into departmental meetings she 
brought with her a burst of sunshine 
a breath of fresh air.During the summer Miss Parry had 
finished rebuilding and furnishing a 
little home in Cherry Tree, the home 
of the Camps, her mothers people, 
for generations. She had looked for
ward with great pleasure to the years 
she would spend in this house with 
gay little parties of weed-end or holi
day friends, for she always made one 
at friendly parties about the school. 
She had just reached the period of 
her greatest attainments and ripest 
wisdom, the -goal of years of faithful 
work. At this time at thefullness of 
her power from the institution where 
she was most needed she has been 
snatched by the cruel and malignant 
forces of nature.Miss Parry had the true spirit of 
willing coperation and comradeship. 
Our loss is great, our comrade is gone. 
She will not be forgotten in her col-, 
lege, in the many clubs of which she 
was an active member, or the place 
that held the greatest part of her 
heart and interest, the Carnegie In 
stitute of Technology.
NEW m COURSES
Several new courses of a highly 
instructial and lucrative nature have 
been added to the night school cur
riculum in Industries. An interest
ing course in Strength of Materials 
has been instituted with the express 
idea of benefiting draftsmen who do 
not have technical training. This is 
doubly valuable as it is of a prac
tical as well as a theoretical nature. 
This course also includes the neces
sary data and laboratory necessary in 
structural design work.Certain of the steel manufacturer 
have petitioned the school for a 
course for Electric Furnace Opera
tors. This opens an entirely new 
field for the man who wishes to use 
his spare time in learning a voca
tion. The field is unlimited and there 
is a great demand for men.
TECH NIGHT A CALVARY
A word of greeting to the men and 
women of Tech from Calvary church 
(Shady avenue and Walnut street;: 
You are back for a year of study and 
happy times. We are glad, as sort 
of permanent neighbors, to invite 
you to our church on October 24th at 
7:30 p. m., for a short service, and 
after the service there will be a re
ception for you in our parish house. 
Deans Scales and Mott, and Profes
sors Follows, Wurts and others will 
give short addresses. Bring along 
the Tech spirit and another student 
with you. Mr. Gaul has worked up 
special musical numbers for the eve
ning. Pitt got the idea and came out 
strong last Sunday evening. Can 
they show Tech? Neyer!
ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY
That a body of technical students 
can well enjoy a non-technical ad
dress by a literary man, was demon
strated on Wednesday, October 13. 
Mr. Hamlin Garland, one of Americas 
best-known.novelists, was the speaker. 
Mr Garland is a true son of the 
Middle Border, where he was born 
and raised. He was born on a farm 
near West Salem, Wisconsin, and it 
was at Winneshiek County, Iowa, that 
he spent his boyhood days, which he 
humorously and picturesquely de
scribed in the introduction of his ad
dress. He received his preliminary 
education at the Cedar Valley Semi
nary, in Osage, Iowa. During his life 
in the Middle West, Mr. Garland 
came to love the rough pioneers of 
the West, and it is these men that 
he celebrates in his prose and poetry. 
Mr. Garlands best known works in
clude A Son of the Middle Border 
and Main Travelled Roads.
The topic of Mr. Garlands address 
was Songs and Seasons of the 
Middle Border. After an interest
ing iati'udv.otl'oK, the speaker rccited 
number ,of his verses portraying 
life and characters of the Middle Bor
der. Among the verses were Old 
Things, I Paid My Way, Horses 
Chawin -Hay and others. The on tire 
address was very well received, and 
Dr. Iiammerschlag spoke for the -stu
dents when he invited Mr. Garland to 
again address the Tech students on 
his next visit to Pittsburgh.
The remainder of the assembly 
period was devoted to the announce
ment and discussion of student activi
ties. Captain Red Godden helped 
to scatter some pep for Saturdays 
game by a short talk. Cheerleader 
First led the assembly in a few 
cheers, and the assembly closed with 
singing the Alma Mater.
Bob Thornes All Confident Gang 
Downed by Carnegie Tech Team
Wally Steffens fleet-footed squad plays fastest, brainest football 
game seen on Tech field. Outweighed by 15 pounds, the Skibos 
play havoc with Grove City offensive and tearing through for 
Three Touchdowns.
Allen Weirman Star Capt. Godden Injured
The Grove City football squad 
came to Pittsburgh Saturday all 
primed for the Tartan scalp and as 
they went out on Tech Field, one 
could not help but see the ease and 
confidence with which they ran the 
ball up and down the field, but thats 
about all they had, except a lot of 
beef and a bunch of loyal rooters. 
The all-confident followers were of
fering 2 to 1 odds and said it hurt 
their conscience to do it and some of 
them were as far-fetched to offer
10 to 1 odds that theyd win, but let 
me tell you the rest of the story. 
About three hours -later, the some
what same Grove City eleven went 
limping out of the same Tech Field 
sadly discomforted, entirely disillu
sioned and many of them with empty 
pockets. All of which means in 
simple words that Coach Steffens 
fleet-footed eleven, playing the clev
erest, fastest and brainiest game of 
football ever seen on Tech Field, 
gave the aforementioned Grove City 
lads a severe and disheartening drub
bing, which the officials counted as a
21 to 3 victory for the Plaid school.
Grove City has a wonderful team, a 
team that fought the whole way thru 
four quarters, a team that was 
heavier by ten pounds in the line and 
by twenty in the backfield than the 
Plaid aggregation, but Tech had a 
better team, a team that overcame 
bulk with brains, a team that played 
real football. Never on Tech Field 
has such a brilliant coterie of plays 
been run off and too much credit
cannot be given to Coach Steffens for 
developing such a team as played 
Saturday.
When we come to mention individ
ual players, we'd like to tell you about 
all of them, because all of them 
.played a stellar game, but we must 
mention Allen Weirman, quarterback 
from Sharon High and Westminster, 
who took Captain Goddens place at 
the beginning of th second half. 
Red Godden had been playing a fight
ing game and the, Grove City bunch 
did net like the way he tore things 
up, so Red, altho he was ten feet 
away from the ball, got his dose just 
after the kickoff in the second half. 
Weirman used rare judgment in 
carrying the ball and his generalship 
and manner of calling signals leaves 
nothing lacking in the quarterback 
position. A few minutes after ho 
was in the game, he wiggled thru 
the Grove City line and evaded their 
.secondary defense and ran 27 yards 
for Tech's first touchdown.
Brumbaugh, the 160-pound full
back, showed Jones how to play foot
ball, showed him that beef isnt all, 
that brawn without brains is useless. 
Brumbaugh can either make his 
gains thru the line or around the 
ends, just as the situation demands 
it, and he can do both of them equally 
well. Did you see Cy Comfort play
ing? He can play with any of them. 
Cy was there and Grove City knew it, 
and they felt it very keenly when he 
caught Jones napping on the punt.
(Continued on page 2.)
THE OLD GIRLS ENTERTAIN
Sunday afternoon, October the 
tenth, the Old Girls of all the dormi
tories entertained the New Girls at 
tea. The affair was the first of its 
kind here, and succeeded very well 
in its aim to have the New Girls 
meet Old Girls who are not in their 
own houses. Woodlawn New Girls 
went to Forbes, and from Forbes to 
Mellon. Forbes girls went to Mellon 
and from Mellon to Woodlawn, etc.
The New Girls met the others, 
were shown around the House, and 
were entertained with music. A 
buffet, luncheon was served, which 
played a goodly part in making the 
afternoon a glorious success.
T. A. C. GETS UNDERWAY
The Tech Architectural Club held 
its first meeting of the year Monday 
afternoon, and the tradition makers 
of the drafting room are all set to 
reel off another successful year.
The annual exhibition of the work 
of the members of the club promises 
to be a real one this year, to consist 
of projets, water-colors, pen and 
pencil sketches, charcoal work and 
modeling. The dat of the exhibit 
will be announced later.
Plans for a big T. A. C. dance were 
started, the spcifications of which 
will appear later. The suggestion 
that the dance be thrown open to all 
departments of the institution was 
very favorably taken.
The executives for the current 
year are as follows: President, W. J. 
Perkins; vice president, L. H. Rank; 
'secretary, P. F. Simpson; treasurer, 
S. H. Jamison.
Watch for the dates of the exhibi
tion and dance, and come and see 
what T A. C. is doing.
ARCHITECTS ORGANIZE
A meeting of all the students of 
architecture, was held last Friday 
afternoon, and the department regu
larly organized for the current year. 
John Todd acted as chairman, and 
the following were elected as officers 
for the year: President, R. E. Dake; 
Vice President, E. H. Hughes; Sec
retary and Treasurer, L. II. Rank; 
Judge for Plebe Trials, W. J. Per
kins; Prosecuting Attorney, A. S. 
Vincent; Assistant Prosecuting At 
torney, R. E. Bowers.
The purpose of the organization is 
to promote the welfare of the de
partment in every way possible, and 
to let it be known that the archi
tects are on their toes more than 
ever to further the interests of the 
entire school.
The agitation begun last spring 
for the formation of a debating club 
culminated last Thursday in a meet
ing of eleven interested students in 
the office of the Dean of Men. The 
students were addressed by Dean 
Tarbell and by Mr. Peterson and Mr. 
Kennedy of the English department, 
who assured them of the whole
hearted support of the faculty. As 
the society is intended to include not 
only those skilled in debate, but also 
proficient in declamation, reading, 
etc., it was decided to give.it a more 
inclusive name than Debating Club 
and the name Carnegie Forum was 
agreed upon.Knowing that many prospective 
members were unable to attend, and 
that the wider scope of the society 
will interest more students, the pio
neers constructed a temporary or
ganization and elected W. J. Reilly 
president ahd I. J. Reaves secretary. 
Mr. Reilly then appointed organiza
tion committees for each of the four 
divisions to interest students in the 
new. movement The society is well 
started and means business, and if 
it receives from the student body 
(both men and women) the support 
that it merits, it may yet participate 
in intercollegiate debates this year 
and thus add another to Techs long 
list of accomplishments
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
Last Friday afternoon th Cos
mopolitan Club reorganized for the 
coming year. The number of mem
bers present was small, due to gradu
ation and failure of many members 
to return to school.
A. W. Prins presided and advanced 
plans for a general get together 
smoker to be held this coming Fri
day. The committee in charge of 
this event consists of Harding and 
Paloma. Prospective members will 
be entertained at this smoker and 
the committee promises some original 
stunts. R. S. Craig was elected 
treasurer to fill the vacancy in that 
office.
New members are needed to fill up 
the ranks, which are now sadly de
pleted. A novel plan is going to be 
tried out, the slogan being, Every 
member get a member. A tem
porary membership committee con
sisting of Messrs. Paloma, Moshkevich and Craig has been appointed.
COUNCIL NEWS
On Thursday, Oct. 14, the Student 
Council held its first regular meet
ing. The opening address was made 
by President II. G. Nichol. An or
ganization was immediately effected, 
the following officers being elected: 
Vice president, R. Brandin; recorder, 
Miss Margaret Griflin; secretary and 
treasurer, .J J. Rudisill.
The work to be taken up during 
the year was outlined and the follow
ing comijyttees appointed by the 
president: School Restaurant, .J. .1, 
Rudisill; Point System, .1. Todd, 
chairman, Miss Griffin, II. C. Iiourman; Freshman , Regulations, R. 
Brandin, chairman, the remainder to 
consist of heads of Freshman Regu
lations committees appointed in each 
of the four schools; Religious Life at 
Tech, R. Brandin, Miss McCarson 
Fixed Athletic and Social Events of 
the Year, Miss E. McCarson. chair
man, R. M. Crosby; Programs for 
General Assemblies, J. J. Rudisill, 
chairman, Miss M. Griffin, P. D. 
Good.
The school presidents were author
ized to see that the 10c Council fee 
is collected from the students of their 
school. The next meeting of the 
Council will be held October 26 at 
4:30 oclock in the Senior parlors of 
the Margaret Morrison Division.
IGNORANCE AND MATRIMONY
It is said that the way of the trans
gressor is hard. This was proven 
when eight Industries Plebes were 
brought before the Soph Class foi 
correction. They came,some meek, 
some scowling,and some rebel
lious, but all had the same hard .luck 
story.
The first victim was a husky Plebe 
who pleaded ignorance of all regula 
tions and even wore gray sox at tho 
trial. Another was charged with cn. 
respect to upperclassmen. These 
were some of the minor charges. 
However, there were some of more 
serious aspect. One Plebe tried U 
pass himself off as a Federal Board 
man, while another tried to get ex
emption for being a member of tin 
Naval Reserve and a married man. 
The findings of the jury in most 
cases was, Guilty, in the first de
gree. In most cases this verdict did 
not seem near severe enough.
The hand of retribution was heavy 
and Pete, the Pile Driver, proved 
to be able to swing a wicked paddle. 
The sounds of the blows resounded 
and re-echoed thru tho halls, 'strik
ing terror into the hearts of the 
guilty green ones. It is safe to 
say that there will bo u number ol 
Plebes eating off the mantel for tho 
next week.
The Naval Reserve Plebe proved to 
be very much married, and staged a 
regular domestic scene, a la Bring
ing up Father, befora s6ntencc 
could be executed upon him. Upon 
hearing tho first crack of the paddle, 
he struclf out for home, probably 
thinking the Sophs would forget 
about him by next day. This did not 
prove to be the case, and he received 
a ducking to show that cross-country 
running is not approved by tho Soph
omore Class.
SCARAD INSTALLED AT TECH
Dr. John A. Stevenson, formerly 
Director cf the School of Life Insur
ance Salesmanship, has been elected 
Third Vice President of the* Equitable 
Life Society.
Announcement has been made of 
the installation of a chapter of 
Scarab in Tech. Scarab is the oldest 
Architectural Professional Fraternity, 
and has chapters in practically every 
school of architecture in the countrv.
The charter was granted to the 
former Gargoyle Society in the school 
of Architecture, Division of the Arts, 
and was installed on June 22nd, at 
the Fort Pitt Hotel. The installation 
ceremony was under the personal di
rection of the members of the High 
Council.
Membership is taken from the up
per third year of the Junior Class and 
elected during the latter part of that 
year, after approval of the Faculty. 
The Fraternity is undertaking the 
publication of an Architectural An
nual representing the work of the 
students of the Department of Archi 
tecture. The Charter members of the 
Chapter are: Stanley P. Stewart 20, 
J. Phillips Davis 20, Daniel Bodin 
*21, Paul F. Simpson 21, Francis K 
Draz 21, Robert E. Drake '21, Nelson 
P. Rice 21, Ralph M. Crosby '21, 
Harry T. Aspinwall '21, Robert W. 
Schmertz '21, Carl C. Pribek '20, M, 
Edwin Green '20, Lindsay J. Rock
well 21.
ON THE WARPATH
The Science Sophs ate oortainly 
doing their duty by the Plebes this 
year. In order that the latter may 
not feel neglected, a special Plebe 
conduct committee of Sophs has been 
been formed, in addition to their old 
friend, the Plebe regulations com
mittee.
The sentiment of those concerned, 
expressed by them in emphatic on 
gi nee ring terms, is to the effect that 
said Plebes shall thoughtfully tread 
the straight and narrow with folded 
hands and downcast countenances, 
gazing neither to the right nor to 
the left nor yet upon the fair, re
spectful to their superiors, and 
humbly thankful for their privileges.
And yet there are those by whom 
the assumption of these privileges is 
taken with unseemly levity. Others 
there are whose modesty, inter 
feres with the wearing of such marks 
of distinction. Straightway they be 
come transgressors, for the laws of 
Tech are unchanging and inflexible, 
even as those of the Medes and Per
sians.
The eagle eye of the Soph is quick 
to single them out. Thereupon their 
names appear upon the bulletin board 
and we see them crossing the campus 
adorned with strange forms of head 
dress, neckwear, or other apparel.
PERSONNEL BUREAU TO 
. HOLD ANNUAL MEETING
The annual fall meeting of the Bu
reau of Personnel Research will be 
held Wednesday, October 27,1920. At 
this meeting the research staff is to 
present to the business and manufac
turing concerns which constitute the 
Bureau, results of its research during 
Ihe four and one-luilf years of its ex
istence; also to present an outline of 
its future program and to discuss 
ways in which it can b\) of increas
ing value to its members.
The Bureau of Personnel Research, 
with Colonel Walter Dill Scott, now 
President of Northwestern University., 
Director, was established in 1916, 
under the name of the Bureau of 
Salesmanship Research. Its purpose 
was to study scientifically the best 
methods in selecting and developing 
salesmen and to discover the best 
types of salesmanship service. The 
Bureau was started as a result of 
the active interest of Mr. Edward A. 
Woods, Mr. li. J. Heinz and Mr. 
Norval Hawkins in the problems of 
selecting and training salesmen. The 
funds for the maintenance of this re
search work come almost entirely 
through contributions of nationallyknown business concerns.
Since 1916 the scope of the Bureau 
has been broadened to include the 
study of duties and personnel prob
lems of clerical workers and minor 
executives. The Bureau brings to
gether the experience of its support
ing firms and assembles information 
as to the host present practices. It 
works out and tests new methods in 
choosing and training their salesmen, 
their executives and their clerical 
workers. It assists in planning and 
increasing the efficiency of personnel organizations.
Tho value of having such an or
ganization as the Bureau of Person
nel Research closely affiliated with 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is that it helps the faculty and stu
dents to keep in closer touch with tho 
world of business and industry. Tho 
results of tho research aro particu
larly valuable to students of industry 
and engineering when they become a 
part of tho undergraduate courses in 
Personnel Admini.vtrntion, Applied 
Psychology, and Salesmanship. Not 
every graduate in engineering and in
dustries will bo directly concerned 
with tho employment, management or 
supervision of men or with tho sales 
policy involved in marketing tho 
products manufactured, but nearly 
everyone who rises to a position of 
responsibility in industry or engineer
ing is pretty certain lo have to deal 
with employees. This is why tho 
maintenance of the Bureau of Per
sonnel Kostoirch at the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology is an enterprise 
which has its value for both the in
stitution and the businesses concerned.
Tho present Director of tho .Bu
reau of Personnel Research is Major
C. S. Yoakum. Tho firms that con
stitute it and co-operate in the re
search are:
American Fruit Growers, inc., 
American Rolling Mill Company, 
American Tobacco Company, Arm
strong Cork Company, Bell Telephone 
Company of Ponna., Burroughs Add
ing Machine Company, Carnegie Steel 
Company, Commonwealth Fdison 
Company, Equitable Life Assurance 
Society of the U. S., Equitable Life 
Insurance Company of Iowa, Fuller 
and Smith, Fuller-Morrisson Com
pany, W. T. Grant Company, Guar
dian Life Insurance Company, The B.
F. Goodrich Rubber Company, John 
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, H. J. Heinz Company, Kalama
zoo Loose Leaf Binder Company, 
Kaufmann Department Stores, Inc., 
Eli Lilly and Company, Miller SawTrimmer Company, PackardMotor 
Car Company, The Philadelphia Com
pany, Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance 
Company, The Safe-Cabinet Company, 
Westinghouse Electric and Manufac
turing Company, The Edward A. 
Woods Company.
Judges from the Design School 
Jazz Band helped the Stringers of 
1920-21 at their first try-outs. From 
the looks of the new material, a suc
cessful season is predicted. The or
ganization has eleven members. 
Misses Francis Burro we and Mar
garet Combs, pianists; Florence Lutz, 
Hawaiian guitar; Lenore Davies, sax
ophone; Caroline Waltar, Virginia 
Moormen, Mary Jones, Eleanor 
Crever, Isabel Winner, ulces and banjo-ukes; Mary Downs, Martha Downs, 
Margaret Combs, mandolin.
HARDING ELECTED !
The first class meeting of the Jun
ior Class was held Thursday last. 
The purpose of this meeting was the 
holding of elections to fill vacancies 
created by students leaving school.
A class treasurer was elected, W. 
L. A. Dickson, to fill that vacancy as 
left by G. II. Dennis.
D. S. Harding and II. M. White 
were elected to fill the two vacancies 
on this years Thistle staff by H. Z. 
Longwell and R. II. Shanno.
NIGHT STUDENTS
There will he an election of officers 
for the night classes on Friday night, 
October 22, in Room 104.
How a bald-headed man does sneer 
al, a woman who dyes her hair!

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1920.
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffieo of Pittsburgh as second-class matter. 
Editor-in-Chief ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Business Manager .
Phone Hazel 0422 
Schenley 9211
Don A. Sillers
EDITORIAL STAFFSchool Editorn
Managing EditorM. M. i)...............................Helen Lewis
William D. HallIndustries...............Donald S. Harding
Science ..................................I. Sissman
Assistant Managing Editor
J. T. AmesM. U. Winslow
Four EditorCirculation Manager
J. K. W. MacalpineWilliam 11. Obenour
Athlctic EditorBUSINESS STAFF
Fred L. KnowlesRobert Mills Walter Heiler
Ackerman D. Sonneman
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for tho make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at onco.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
tho signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofiice, Central Building, before 
4:iiQ l\ M. Fridays.
The Tartan Office, Room 152 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:30. Thursday 3:30-4:30.
AN EXPLANATION
It appears that some students do not yet understand the system under 
which the Tartan is operating this year. We have been questioned sev
eral times as to why the paper is being given away/ instead of sold as 
was done last year. Anyone who paid his dollar and twenty-live cents on 
registration day should know that he is entitled to one copy of each weeks 
Tartan, and should receive same every Wednesday. The Tartan is not 
being distributed freewe are only eliminating the red tape which has 
formerly been connected with the dstribution of copies. This we are en
abled to do by the action of the Student Activities Board in making it 
necessary for each student to subscribe. The Tartan is the official pap'er 
of tho school, and every student is responsible for all notices printed there
in. Somo few students thought they were being roped in on registration 
duy when they wore asked for their subscription money to the Tartan. We 
hope that by this time they will have realized their mistake, and that they 
will be honest enough to pay up their subscriptions. An envelope con
taining your name, class, and division, and $1.25, addressed to The Tartan, 
and placed in the Student Post Office will straighten matters out.
WE WONDER
Is a general assembly just tho place to read stirring exhortations (in 
the form of telegrams), to read a full account in tonights paper of a 
special sale of wearing apparel at Blanks clothing store?
Have certain members of the faculty ever stopped to think that our 
Alma Mater should mean almost as much to them as to the student 
body? Tho action of three of them at Saturdays game would indicate 
that they have not. Lets hope that this will call the matter to their 
attention.
Tho Carnegie Forum has been organized to promote interest and ac
tivity in tho various branches of literarywork. Every member will have 
the opportunity of developing himself in declamation, reading, public 
speaking and debating. Incidentally, tho forum will rocoivo and develop 
material for tho proposed Carnegie Tech debating ,team which will repre
sent Tech in intorcolloglato competition. This is an exceptional oppor
tunity for anyono interested in literary work. It gives valuable training 
in connection with your course and puts that training in tho form of an 
onjoyablo activity. Watch tho bulletin board for announcement of the 
next mooting; then come 'out and boost tho Carnegie Forum.
STUDENT CALENDAR
October 22Party for Library StudentsLibrary llut.
October 22Sophomore I'lobe Sdenco Smoker Union.
October 23Football, Tech vs. University of Cincinnati1Toch Field. 
October 23Football DuncoUnion.
October 25Intoi'-clnss Truck Moot Toch Field.
October 80Football DuncoUnion.
November 5Dorm I and 2 Dunce Union.
November 0Footbnll Dance Union.
November 0Cross Country Track MootToch vs. Lehigh.
November 13Footbull DanceUnion.November 20Footbull, Tech vs. W. and J.Tech Field.
DRAMA PLEBES ENTERTAINED 
AT HALLOWEEN PARTY
One of the most enjoyable events 
held in the drama department during 
the first quarter was the get together 
party on the stage of the Little Thea
tre, last Friday evening. The affair 
was given in honor of the hew Drama 
Plebes by the upperclass men of that 
department. This is an annual event 
as it marks the real entrance of 
Drama Plebes into the social life of 
the department.
Getting away from the old custom 
of dress parties this one was unusual 
in that it was a Halloween Dansante, 
which gave wonderful opportunity 
for decoration, amusement and re
freshments. The plan of decoration 
was novel and beautiful. On enter
ing the stage, one passed thru an old 
Halloween gate into a corn pasture 
with its scare-crow, pumpkins and 
wishing well. One-half of the stage 
represented the old familiar rural 
Helds while the other half the farm
stead. Tho interior scene was a re
minder of tho old days of farm life 
with its large old mantel fireplace 
and kettles and stools.
The first part of tho evening was 
spent in dancing in which no upperclass man was allowed to dance with 
an upperclass girl, but saw that ouch 
riebo was entertained and had an en
joyable evening; likewise ouch upperclass man served one underclass man 
with lunch. The other half of the 
evening was spent in entertainment 
of a most unusual sort. One of the 
most interesting stunts consisted of 
five pictures of famous actresses 
posed by a few of the girls. Mr. Os
borne arranged the poses, assisted by 
Miss Muriel Brown. Their subjects 
were: Dolores, posed by Martha
Johnson; Mrs. Fisico, by Hazel Beck; 
Dorothy Dalton, by Mrs. Bollinger; 
Nazimova, by Miss Thomson; Julia 
Arthur, by Sara Morrison, and Ber
tha Kalich, by Helen Forrest.
Donald Colpitts gave a very im
pressive Japanese dance in a charac
teristic costume. Jack Willard, Carl 
Reed, Helen Basinger and Claude 
Dazeli gave a side-splitting one-act 
farce. A monologue by George Good
rich completed the program.
Throughout the evening numerous 
Halloween games were played. Pop 
com was in abundance and the flow 
of cider was continuous. At eleven 
thirty a most delicious luncheon con
sisting of old-fashioned pumpkin p*ie 
and coffee was served in true Hallow
een fashion.
Mr. Stevens and Miss Radcliff 
acted as chaperons. The entire fac
ulty of the drama department and 
President Hammerschlag, Dean Tar
bell and Dean Scales were also 
present.
RON DOWN BY SOPHS.
A dormitory upperclass man, re
turning over the campus in the wee 
small hours, noticed evidences of 
fresh paint. This paint consisted of 
class numerals of tho 21 variety, 
interspersed with maledictions aimed 
at the innocent and well meaning 
Sophomore ('lass. Some of the nightSophs, upon hearing the news, waxed 
exceedingly wroth. A round of tho 
campus was then made and a flash
light was seen on Fort Mellon hill. 
Investigation proved the operator to 
bo none other than a chalk water 
dispenser on his early rounds. No 
signs of the offending culprits could 
be foundbut, oh, how they could 
be seen!
Feeling that the numerals should
be removed immediately, in order to 
keep the campus uncontaminated, the 
Sophs rounded up the Plebes from 
their warm, enticing beds.
The Plebes were then armed with 
buckets and brushes and sent out to 
eradicate the objectional work of 
their fellow class men. After the 
Sophs assigned the work they re
turned to enjoy the remainder of 
their nights rest in peace, leaving 
the greener element to do the 
work. Dawn saw not a single trace 
of paint desecrating the campus. An 
early morning trial imprinted on 
some of the Plebes the seriousness of 
the offense. Jt is also feared that 
one Freshman is going to catch cold 
because of a surprising Jack of hair.
The inhabitants of South Dorm 
held a get together smoker, talker, 
and drinker in Science Club Room 
last Friday night. All. the inmates 
turned out for the Mardi Gras in 
honor of Lady Nicotine and a right 
merry time was enjoyed by the rev
elers. Louis Newman as master of 
ceremonies introduced President 
Larry Kritcher who welcomed the 
assemblage. El wood Beck, premier 
violinist of Carnegie Tech accompa
nied by W. JI. Bryan at the piano, 
rendered the latest syncopations of 
the jazz world. Dimitrie Dem Diroancesco, Roumanian Consul of 
Pittsburgh, told of his experiences 
in Paris and America, and of his 
sweetheart, Raggedy Ann. With 
the assistance of Mr. Du Bois he sang 
that swinging French song, Le 
Madelon. Sally Garnieri gave a 
professional chalk talk that pos
sessed remarkable originality. These 
talks can now be seen in the exhi
bition room of Dorm Four.
The piece de resistance of the 
evening was William Pfouts, drawing 
room orator. After a few appro
priate stories he settled down to 
work. He emphasized the importance 
of getting together and making 
friends, and his talk was appreciated 
by all his hearers. Joe Paloma, the 
Battling Bricklayer, and Kid 
Garfield, the Plunging Plumber, 
paired up in the main bout, but it 
was called in the second round when 
Joe held the Kid for downs on the 
one-yard line. Fred Knowles, ener
getic promoter of the smoker, said a 
few words and announced a dance for 
Dorms Four and Six in the imme
diate future. Elwood Beck was 
called again and played unaccompa
nied. The beautiful harmony of 
Lucia poured forth under his mas
terful touch and the haunting strains 
-of Southern melodies cast a magic 
spell over his thrilled and motionless 
audience.
NOMINATIONS
Science SenateSenior Class 
Sillers Schlumpf
Sturgeon Keller
Loot * Yoder
Schmidt Butts
ELECTIONS
ScienceSenior Class
1resident .....................................Brandin
Vico President...........................Hawkins
Secretary ......................................McDado
Treasurer .....................................Manlcol
IndustriesPlebes
Iresident.........................................Comfort
Vico President...............................Buckley
Secretary .........................................Smith
Treasurer ..........................................Bock
ARTS DIVISION JUNIOR 
ELECTIONS
SenatorL. Nusbaum.
PresidentCarl B. Reid.
1st Vice-Pres.-Lawrence Paquin.
2nd Vice-Pres.Miss Jane Ziegenf elder.
SecretaryMiss C. Schuman, and 
Miss M. Lissfelt, tied.
TreasurerMr. Schoonover.
HistorianMiss Cloyde Dalzell.
Drama Department SenatorLaw
rence Paquin.
LIFE AT DORM TWO
The upperclass men of the West 
dorm entertained their new members 
at a midnight party, Sunday, Oct.
10. Only one-half of the Plebes 
were honored, but they will try to 
keep out of the clutches of upperclass 
men in the future. It was a meeting 
of the Plebe court. Many dos and 
donts of dorm life were imprinted 
on the offending Plebes.
Tickets are now being sold for the 
dorm dance, November 5, in the 
Union. They may be purchased from 
any of the committee or dorm offi
cers. Every dor man should buy one. 
This marks the beginning of social 
activities in the dorms.
FIRST PLAY OF SEASON
IN ARTS LITTLE THEATRE
The first play, a one-act farce en
titled Nance Oldfield, to be present
ed in the Little Theatre this season 
will be given Wednesday evening, 
October 20, 1920. The cast is as 
follows:
Nance Oldfield.............Sarah Morrison
Susan ...............................Dolly Paxton
Nathan Oldworthy ..Lawrence Paquin 
Alexander Oldworthy.... Win. Beyler
Robert .............................George lloag
It will be repeated at the Friday 
matinee this week. Students of all 
divisions arc invited to attend the 
Friday matinees, which begin at 1:00 
p. m.
TECH SPIRIT?
in past years much has been said 
of the democratic atmosphere sur
rounding Tech, where a man is hon
ored for his own worth, disregarding 
his personal wealth, fraternity or set 
to which he belongs. This is the 
ideal college spirit, a mans loyalty 
to the college and the college loyalty to tho man.
In direct contrast to this tradition, 
we hear of a fraternity, during the 
recent elections, nominating its own 
men for office and perfecting a typi
cal political machine to back them. 
Fortunately their scheme fell thru, 
with little effect except to open our 
eyes to the situation of petty politics 
that threatens to undermine our stu
dent activities.
With this situation growing each 
year, as it undoubtedly is, we will 
eventually reach that stage of interf Maternity warfare, jealousies, and 
mud slinging which can only result 
in disproving our far-flung boasts 
that Tech activities are clean. The 
standard which the fraternities have 
set and so far maintained, in the ma
jority of cases, will be lowered until 
these organizations have become a 
menace rather than an asset.
It is the duty of every man, 
whether he belongs to a fraternity or 
not, to prevent such an occurrence, 
by participating in all meetings at 
which nominations and elections are 
to take place. We should make it 
our business to crush every attempt 
to steam roller a man into office 
who is merely the representative of 
a particular clique. See that the best 
man is nominated; then vote for him.
| WEVE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
'vSHOES AND HOSIERY
PENN AND. FRANKSTOWN
MENS BROGUES 
$12.00 to $16.00
We are showing a fine lot of [ 
gj newFall and Winter Broques f 
|| at prices that are going to j 
gj make them very -popular, in
' CORDOVAN - BOARDED 
CALF AND SCOTCH 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS
STETSONS
OXFORDS AND BOOTS 
$13.00 to $16.00
MENOR AH SOCIETY
On Tuesday evening, October 12, 
the Menorah Society held its first so
cial dance and organization meeting. 
The Menorah meets eveiy other 
Tuesday evening at 8:15 p. m. at the 
Rodef Shalom Temple, Fifth avenue 
near Morewood. Speakers of inter
est have been procured for each meeting.
PLAID ELEVEN WHIPS
GROVE CITY 21-3
(Continued from page 1.)Cy always gets thru the line and 
mosses things up, but this time he 
blocked the punt and held the Grove 
City Man off until McClean came up 
and fell on the ball for Techs unex
pected third touchdown.
McClean played his position at 
right end as he always plays it, and 
liable at left end ably supported him. 
A1 Irwin at center, altlio he is light, 
makes up for his weight and downs 
the biggest of them.
For Grove City, credit and praise 
must be given to Captain Putts for 
his beautiful drop-kick from the 45- 
yard line, something unusual, and 
Captain Putts pulled it off in great 
style. While tho work of Jones, the 
hefty back, was somewhat disap
pointing, it was good enough. Many 
times his plunging and running 
caused the hearts of all loyal Tech 
men to almost cease proper function
ing. Fredly, at left half, was as good 
as any of them and Avliy he was taken 
out of the game in the second quarter 
is yet to bo heard from.
Tho Carnegie Tech students did 
themselves well. This includes tho 
band, for they did honorablo work 
Saturday afternoon. When, the first 
and second touchdowns were scored, 
the crowd went wild. It reminded 
the writer of last years game with 
Pitt when Marshall ran 95 yards for 
a touchdown. Even Coach, Steffens 
joined in with the students in their 
moments of joyous triumph, and 
displayed it like the rest of them 
did.
This Grove City game is another 
game that even this years Plebes 
will talk about when they hold their 
alumnus class reunion and the upperclass men will classify it among the 
Carnegie Tech football classics. The 
details of the game:
ScoreTech 21, Grove City 3.
IIable................ L. E..............Bohlender
Comfort............ L. T...................Tallant
Henderson....... L. G...............Bachellor
Irwin.................... C................(C) Putts
Rosenbloom.... R. G.....................Beggs
Sprinkle............ R. T....................Young
McClean............ R. E. ...............Ruffner
Robertson........... Q......................Sellers
Anderson.......... L. H...................Fredly.
Godden (C)... R. H.......................Bible
Brumbaugh......... F.........................J ones
Score by periods:
Tech .,...0 0 7 1421
Grove City .0 3 0 03
SubstitutesMarshall for Ander
son, Wierman for Godden, for Tech; 
Bloom for  Ruffner, Steptanian for 
Sellers, Sellers for Fredly, Filer for 
Beggs, Smith for Bohlender. Touch
downsWierman, Brumbaugh, Mc
Clean. Goal from fieldPutts. Goal 
after touchdownsComfort (3). Ref
ereeVery, Penn State. Umpire 
McFarland, W. & J. Head linesman 
-Blum.
CAP LOSTRegistration Day, 
Sept. 27, on Campus. Finder please 
return to Dean Tarbells ofiice.
[ BELLEFIELD |
*
SKIBO INN
*------------------------------------------** *| Remodeled and Enlarged jjj
CLEAN, *
* WHOLESOME, *
* FOOD *sj: ?* Served at best prices *
I CIGARS CANDY *
SHOE REPAIR ??*
Finest Work | 
*
OPPOSITE LIBRARY **^-v:--X--X-^-X--X-^-X--X--X-ir-X--X--X--X--X--X-a--X-v:--X"X-vr-X-v*
.THE FALLAllenOLLAR.
M RCYCluett.Peabody ErCo-InC-TVcry NIY.
piirarafffiHiiMi;:!
I OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
| TRANSFER COMPANY
H Bell Phones 878 & 9169 Schenley 
P. & A. 1092-R
227 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
1g Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped
iilllUIIIRIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllljllUIH
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM 
Beit Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
ATTENTION STUDENTS
Laboratory Aprons
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET J
^X-X-^-X-X-X-^-X-^-H-X--X--X--X--X-X--X"X-X--X--X-X--X-X-X-X-vf-X-X--X-X-4:-X"X-X-X-4f-X-X-K--X-X--X"X-X"X--r^
THE VERY HEART
Located at the heart of the University District 
Aimingat the heart of the truth 
Appealing to the hearts of folks 
OAKLAND METHODIST CHURCH 
Forbes and Boquet Sts.
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY
UnderSuper vision of Varsity Clan
OUREATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^-'t * vf * vr *X-if-X-^-f i 5--X-vr-jf f-ir vr-Iv-X--if *-X--Jf *-X--3^
DO YOU DANCE?
OLAGS AMS PRIVATE 
J A 6 $ U H ' AN0IN A6ABIM Y
IRON CIY ELECTRIC CO.BATTERY
Exide"
SERVICE
Broad and Sheridan Ave, 
All Kinds of Batteries  
Repaired and Recharged *

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE.
* RLAID
Design and M. M. Girls May
Compete for Wallace Reid Cup
Joint Committee Meeting held FridayDesire of Design girls to 
enter field of athletics, causes joining with Margaret Morrison. 
Girls to form New Athletic AssociationIntra-School contests 
assureInter-Collegiate hoped for.
RIFLE CLUB........
Great interest shown amongstu
dent body to make this' new activity 
a success. Detail plans for success
ful organization being completed. 
Facts showing a large number of 
good shots in the different schools 
prove the possibilities of good ma
terial for two strong teams. Policy 
of Rifle Club such that all men are 
eligible, experienced or inexperienced.
Men who have, and men who have 
not handled a firearm before have 
come forward and expressed their de
sire to have a Rifle Club.
Letters have been passing rather 
rapidly between Tech and the Na
tional Rifle Association at Washing
ton, D. C. Numerous visits have 
been made over to the 18th Regiment 
Armory, where one of the newest 
and best equipped rifle ranges is lo
cated.
Since the last issue of the Tartan, 
when the few names of some of the 
good shots were published, many of 
the unknown have shown up, and 
from the present list, and previous 
records of these men, a substantial 
nucleus for a strong Varsity and 
Plebe team is at hand.
The policy of the club is to en
roll inexperienced men as well as ex
perienced men. There will be a com
petent man on the range during cer
tain hours of the day to help and 
instruct every man, how to handle 
and use a firearm and how to be
come a good shot. There will be no 
limit to the number of times a man 
may shoot during the week; a known 
fact is that practice makes perfect;
PLAID ELEVEN BUCK UNIV.
OF CINCINNATI SQUAD 0CT.23
Cincinnati has a record of three 
victories and one defeatLinneman at left half real star 
punts 60 yardsFritz 185-lb. 
fullback.
Mrs. Alderdyce Offers Loving Cup for Tennis
Abandoning the stage, forsaking the easel and throwing off their 
. mocks, the girls of Design School have come forward to assert themselves 
in a new field. A desire to co-operate and become more closely associated 
with the girls of Margaret Morrison has finally driven the artists and 
actresses from the Bohemian atmosphere, characteristic of the recesses of 
lechs Greenwich Village, into the field of athletics. Acting, then, upon 
the suggestion of Mrs. Scales, Dean of Women, steps have been taken to
wards the formation" of a new athletic association to be composed of those 
girls from Margaret Morrison and Design School whoo feel inclined to join.
Judging from the interview the 
writer had with Miss Burroughs of 
Design, the enthusiasm there is run
ning high and the desire to see an 
early start of the new organization 
i.s keen. To this end a joint commit
tee meeting was held last Friday,
Misses M. Levy, Van Winkle and. P.
Burroughs representing Design and 
Misses I. Winner, H. Reid, D. Grant 
and F. Zarobsky representing Mar
garet Morrison. Miss Spurrier,
Physical Culture Director of Mar
garet Morrison, was also present.
Plans were made for the dissociation 
cf the former Margaret Morrison or
ganization and the drafting of a new 
constitution which will be presented 
to each division before effecting a 
final amalgamation of the two 
schools into a new organization.
Mrs. Alderdyce, anxious to en
courage active participation in ath
letics, has offered a handsome cup to 
the winner of a womans tennis 
tournament and it is probable that 
the new association will be heard 
from very shortly on that score.
Later on it is planned to stage intra
school contests in basketball, hockey, 
swimming and volleyball.
Altho getting away to a humble 
start, the association bids fair to be
come a big thing at Tech. In fact 
Dame Rumor has whispered that the 
near future may see our fair co-eds 
engaging in intercollegiate contests.
This reminds the writer of how the 
Carnegie Tech track team defeated 
Pitt in years gone by and thereby 
won a cup offered by a famous 
actress. Can you imagine what the 
new female team would do to our 
rivals on the hill for a cup offered 
by Wallace Reid or Eugene OBrien?
Seats selling six weeks in advance!
The University of Cincinnati is 
sending their football team to Pitts
burgh next Saturday to engage in a 
Dattle with Coach Steffens warriors, 
and reports from the Queen City 
indicate they expect to return home 
wit lithe big side of the score in their 
favor. The Red and Black team has 
won three out of the four contests 
they have engaged in this year and 
are feeling very peppy over it. At 
the start of the season they romped 
away with Kentucky Wesleyan 35 to 
0, and then defeated Kenyon and 
Ohio University 45-0 and 6-0 respect
ively. Last Saturday they met their 
first defeat at the hands of Dennison 
by a score of 21-0.
The team from the Burnet Woods 
Institution is coached by George 
Chambers, who is spending his sec
ond year at Cincinnati. He has taken 
a majority of green men this year 
and moulded them into a fighting 
combination which is showing real 
football ability. Two of his best 
backfield men were injured early in 
the season and have been out of the 
lineup in the last three games. These 
men are Frey and Colley, both of 
whom play at the quarterback posi
tion. Frey made an excellent show
ing in the Wesleyan game, running 
the team smoothly and showing him
self to be a good ground gainer also.
Linneman at loft half is the star of 
the Red and Black aggregation, and 
is the man Tech will have to watch, 
lie is one of those fast, elusive backs 
with a peculiar knee action, who are 
so hard, to stop after they have 
broken through the first line defense. 
In addition to his end running he is 
also a long distance punter, his kicks 
averaging 55 to (50 yards. Fratz, a 
185-pound fullback, does the line 
plunging. Captain Fries has been 
playing at tackle.
Cincinnatis probable lineup is as 
follows: Left end, Meyers; left
tackle, Fries (C); left guard, Con
stable; center, Ileinold; right tackle, 
Kratt; right end, Prather; quarter
back, Fitzgerald; left half, Linne
man; right half, Palmer; fullback, 
Fratz.
Athletic Comments
ATHLETIC COMMENTS
Frank Haaren, Graduate Manager of Athletics 
Frank Haaren is an old Tech man and answered the call last spring 
to come back and serve his Alma Mater. The athletic situation at Tech 
was somewhat scattered then, the various athletic interests were function
ing, but not together and under an organized head. Frank Haaren took 
all the ends together, ami its no easy job, and brought all of Techs athletic 
interests together that they may work in unison for a common cause, and 
to this end he is still working and indications are for promising results. 
He feels that the student body and alumni should know what progress is 
being done and he has assented to talk thru the Tartan every weekand 
this week he tells us about
The Grove City Game 
The Grove City-Tech game will go down in Tech history as one of 
the best games of the season. In this game, the defenders of the Plaid 
came to the front in a most pleasing exhibition of, traditional Tech fight 
and aggressiveness. Considerably outweighed and with odds against them, 
they demonstrated throughout the game their superior football knowledge 
as obtained under the efficient tutelage of Coach Steffen. Having hit their 
stride, Carnegie Tech followers will do well to follow closely the fortunes 
of the squad and to support them as sincerely as has been the custom in 
the past.
The Band
It is also quite in place at this time to say a word with reference, to 
the Carnegie Tech Band which performed so creditably at this game. 
Under the instruction of Director E. F. Sullivan, one of Carnegies most 
loyal adherents, the band has developed into one of the most important 
student organizations in the college. This years organization promises to 
be one of the best yet, especially since a number of larger instruments 
have been obtained for their use.
The Plebe Football Team 
The showing of the Freshman football squad under Coach Iddings has 
been very creditable. Their first game with Monessen High School at 
Monessen resulted in a 1-1 to 0 victory, the touchdowns having been made 
by Donahue, former Westinghouse High boy, and McPhee, of Youngstown. 
Their second game, with Bellefonte Academy, resulted in a 19 to 0 victory 
for Bellefonte, the Academy team outweighing the Plebes in both the line 
and the backfield. The spirit shown by the team promises well for the 
next year and without a doubt, the training obtained at this time will help 
to materially strengthen the varsity next year. Coach Iddings greatest 
handicap is that as soon as lie develops a good man, he loses him to the 
Varsity squad, which makes his organization rather uncertain. However, 
in spite of this, the team is a concrete factor and by far the best Fresh
man organization which has ever represented Carnegie Tech.
PLEBE TEAM WILL PLAY 
STRONG KI8KI ELEVEN OCT. 23
.The Plebe football team is again at 
hard work in prearation for the com
ing game with Kiski at Saltsburg, 
Saturday, October 23. Kiski is rated 
as one of the fastest scholastic out
fits in this end of the state, having 
defeated the W. & J. Reserves 7 to 3 
and showed up well against the West 
Virginia Reserves. The Saltsburg 
warriors are being touted as contend
ers for high scholastic honors and 
victory for the plebes would mean 
much for the Plaid.
Coach Marks of Kiski is expecting 
and so the oftener a man shows up, a hard game with the Tech Freshmen 
on the range, so much the sooner he and he is working his squad hard in 
is on the way to becoming an expert preparation for it. DeVine, the fleerifleman. foted half from Erie High School is
It is expected that by the end of again in the line-up. Elliott who inanother week all details will have jured his shoulder in the West Virbeen completed and that the intenginia Reserve game has completely 
tions of the club may be brought recovered. With these men back in 
before the student body. Immediately the line-up Kiski will present their 
after this, men will be eligible to strongest combination against Tech. 
join and commence training, and Coach Iddings was1 well pleased 
preparation, for the Inter-Collegiate with the Plebes showing against 
matches, which will be held for ten Bellefonte, and expects to spring a 
weeks commencing the first week in few surprises in the game Saturday. February Loner practice periods, drills on forNo definite place of meeting has wards and new formations is the daily 
l<een arranged so far, however. Men routine for the squad, 
who are interested, and who wish to tw t,cams are equally matched
know more about the club, come > and f?00'1 scholastic game is asRoom No. 209, Dormitory No. 7, any ...
day after 4:30 P. M. ne-u Eor w'?*be ,pc:________________ tically the same as that which started
 , , ,, the game at Bellefonte last Saturday.Six of the men who played the ,  .
majority of the game Saturday are Spring!e is the heaviest man on 
from Industries and the other fivethe squad, lifting the beam at 196 
from Science. When Anderson plays lbs. Tech hasnt a man in the hunhe reverses the figures. dred pound class as yet.
Thanking the Carpenters 
The Graduate Manager wishes to take this opportunity to thank the 
students who so generously gave of their time in building the new addi
tion to the grandstand. A great number of men took part in this work, 
even to President Ilamerschlag, who demonstrated his interest by sawing 
and putting in place one of the planks forming the seats. When it is con
sidered that this addition, which provides additional seating capacity of 
about 1,000, taking approximately 12,000 feet of lumber, was completely 
finished in three days, it will be seen that their portion of the work was 
very considerable.
Boxing, Wrestling, Swimming and Hockey 
A number of scattered inquiries have been made at the office of the 
Graduate Manager with reference to, the possibilities of maintaining Var
sity teams in boxing, wrestling, swimming and hockey. All of these sportffc 
wth the exception of hockey, are now to Carnegie Tech and before any
thing definite can be done with regard to any of them, it will be neces
sary to ascertain just how much interest there would be among the students 
in starting such teams. There are several ways of gauging this interest, 
one of which is for each man interested in any sport not at present in the 
list of recognized sports, lo write a note to the Graduate Manager, stating 
therein his desires, his experience and any information bearing in general 
on the proposition whiqh he has in mind. Another .method is for an indi
vidual to make up a list of other interested men, incorporating their joint 
ideas in a petition and thus focusing tho efforts of the group in a manner 
which will make it much easier to handle than if only the individuals apply. 
The above does not mean that any sport suggested will be taken up, but 
it does mean that every effort will be made to use the ideas of tho various 
groups of students, provided that the proper interest is indicated, sched
ules can be arranged and facilities provided.
INTER-CLASS TRACK, OCT. 25
The final plans for the Fall Inter 
class Track Meet set for October 25 
are beginning to take shape. Classes 
are to be dismissed at 3:30 and the 
meet will be run off just as soon as 
possible after that time.
The purpose of this meet is to get 
a line on all the field or track men 
in the school, so if you have any ath
letic ability whatever, report to Man
ager McGill or Coach Iddings and get 
into shape for the meet as soon as 
possible. Cards are to be posted in 
cach school with all events listed and 
each person desiring to enter should 
sign these cards.
As most of the unknown material 
lies in the Freshman Class, the 
Plebes are especially urged to come 
out and get into training at once. 
There seems to be a wealth of matelial among the new students and if 
they would only show a little pep by 
getting into shape for the meet, they 
would have a good chance of bring
ing first honors to their class, be
side getting a great deal of credit for 
themselves.
The meet will consist of the 100, 
220 and 440-yard dashes, broad jump, 
high jump, discus, half mile, mile nad 
two-mile runs. Although the officials 
have not definitely been picked, the 
meet will probably be in charge of 
Coach Iddings, Track Manager Mc
Gill and Track Captain Harvey 
Hiller. Everything possible has been 
done to make the meet a success and 
it is now up to the student body to 
show a -little spirit if this meet is to 
be kept as an annual event on our 
campus.
JUNIOR COMMERCIALS WHIP SOPH ARCHITECTS 21-0
Incomplete registration figures 
from Columbia , University indicate 
that their enrollment this year will 
exceed 31,000, a gain of over 35% 
over last year. Columbia will then 
be the largest educational institu
tion in the world. Their enrollment 
at the past summer session was over 
10,000, the largest in the history of 
the university.
The first of the inter-class football 
games was played Monday, Oct. 11, 
between the Junior Commercials and 
Sophomore Architects, the former 
winning 210. Altho the score seems 
to indicate otherwise, the two teams 
were pretty evenly matched. Except 
for excessive fumbling both sides 
put up a good brand of football for 
green men. Of the Junior Commer
cials, F. O. Smith gained first hon
ors by repeatedly ripping off substan
tial gains, while on the Sophomore 
Architect team the work of Miller 
was very pleasing. The other men 
who showed up well were Copley, 
Delo and Pyle.
Manager Byler of the Junior Com
mercials and Manager Snyder of the 
Sophomore Architects were both 
pleased with the showing of their 
respective teams. Both of the man
agers have already booked further 
games but are also desirous of get
ting in touch with any section which 
would like to stage a game.
Errors on both sides marked the 
second quarter but a well executed 
forward pass, Smith to Copley, 
caused the ball to be carried over for 
a touchdown by Copley.
The Junior Commercials were early 
in putting the ball on Architecture 
territory and keeping it there in the 
last quarter. Through straight line 
plunging Smith carried the oall over 
for a touchdown. Several minutes 
later a neat forward pass, Copley to 
Smith, scored again for the Commer
cials.
ArchitectureMinick, left end; Mc
Lean, left tackle; Lanese, left 
guard; Patterson, center; Gibbs, right 
guard; Reed, right tackle; Pyle, 
right end; Miller, quarterback; Uslam, left half; Bowers, right half; 
Delo, fullback. CommercialsWade, 
left end; Evans, left tackle; Carr, 
left guard; Byler, center; Unzicker, 
light guard; Jacobson, right tackle; 
Shumacher, right end; Copley, quar
terback; Allen, left half; Mills, righf 
half; Smith, fullback.
UmpireH. G. Nichols.
BELLEFONTE DOWNSs.ILTECH-PLEBE 19-0
Plebe team heavily outweighed 
but they show real fight  
Greegs, Larue and Smith stars 
for Plaid team.
While their elder brothers were 
battling the heavy Grove City team 
on their home grounds the Plebes in 
much the same manner were gamely 
fighting off the attacks of the heavy 
Bellefonte Academy team on their 
home gruonds. The fighting spirit of 
the Freshmen was true to Tech form 
from start to finish, and the undefeat
ed Academy had to fight hard for 19 
tallies. Too much praise cannot be 
given the Plebes for their brave stand 
against a foe much heavier than 
themselves.
The game opened with Tech kick
ing oil* to Bellefonte, who on a series 
of end runs and line rushes placed 
the ball over Techs goal line a few 
moments after play. After this touch
down the Plebes settled down and no 
more scores were tallied during the 
period. The second quarter marked 
the period of Bellefontes greatest 
scoring, they registering two touch
downs in this period. The half ended 
19 to 0 in favor of Bellefonte. The 
third quarter found the Plebes fight
ing for every inch and from then on 
until the finish Bellefonte failed to 
register a single score.
Bellefonte Academy has a strong 
team, with an average weight of 190 
pounds per man, they greatly out
weigh the lighter Techites. But what 
the yearlings lacked in weight they 
had in spirit, hence the comparatively 
low score.
Some fault was found in the way 
Referee Stoltzlinger handled the game 
and the local lads feel thdre were 
many badly rendered decisions.
For the Plebes, Griggs, Larue and 
Smith deserve special mention for 
their excellent work throughout the 
game. They were constantly in tho 
game with fight and aggressiveness. 
Donahue handled the team in his 
usual excellent manner. Berryman 
and Schillinger at guard positions did 
some fine work.For Bellefonte, Johnson and Rigby 
starred by their strong offensive work. 
It is the belief at Bellefonte that their 
team will go through the season un
scored upon, and if weight counts, 
their belief will surely hold true.
Although defeated Coach Iddings 
was well pleased with the showing 
his men made against the Academy 
boys, and hopes on November (5, when 
Indiana Normal plays the Freshmen 
hero preliminary to the Varsity gam 
that his team will show their fellow 
students a real Tech game.
The Line-up.
Tech0. Belle f o n t e19.
Donley ...............L.K............ Foreman
Bergland.............L.T................. AI wine
Greggs .................C.............. Buchman
Schillinger ___R.G-----... Carnahan
Rex .....................R.T................. Millard
Lartie .................R.E.............. A bough
Donahue ............Q.B..................... Irwin
Bissell ................L.H.................... liigby
Fritz ...................R.H. Franonhein
Smith ..................F.B...................Johnson
SubstitutesWilliams for Schillm*ci\ McCollum for Larue, Tones for 
Fritz, Davies for Carnahan.
RefereeStoltzlInger of State.
Umpire-Bowers.
Time of quarters 
u tes.----------Kf --------
10 and 12 minCROSS COUNTRY TRIALS
Trials will be run off this week to 
pick the cross-country team to rep
resent the Plaid this fall. At least 
tw ocollegiate meets will taka place, 
cne with Penn State at State College 
on October 30th and another in Pitts
burgh with Lehigh on November 6th, 
the day of the Allegheny football 
game. Efforts are being made to 
provide additional competition and it 
is to be hoped that every man with 
cross-country experience in the col
lege will try out for the team. A 
large squad have been going through 
daily practice under Captain Hiller, 
but it is not too late to join the squad 
if there are any men who wish to 
go in the trials who for any reason 
have not as yet reported.
TECH TO PLAY WEST POINT IN TENN.S NOT SFRING
Following a conversation that Col
onel Brooks had with the West Point 
Manager while Colonel Brooks was 
at his class reunion last June, West 
Point has written asking for a ten
nis match with Carnegie Tech to
wards the end of May. Such match 
has been accepted, and will be 
played when the Tech Tennis Team 
goes on its trip to play the eastern 
colleges in the spring.
Tennis players who hope to try for 
positions on the Varsity Tennis 
Team should see Mr. John HarknenB, 
Senior in the Civil Engineering De
partment, as Mr. Darkness Is tho 
Captain of the Tennis Team.
Has Bert started cooking yet? Ask 
Doc Marks and Eyman v/hen he Is 
^oing to start displaying his culinary 
v/ares again.
|pWHWIW|IM
Arrangements are being made |
gj for a special car to take the j 
jg football squad to Lehigh. All | 
 who are interested in aecompanying the team will please g 
communicate with the Graduate I Manager.
ilMltltl!llll!llllllll!!llllti!llll!ll||l
Steffen has four men out for quar
terback, three for the halves and two 
for full. It never rains but it pours.
MEORI i'SHnS>
, PENS REPAIRED"0'3!' ULNHINX ARCADEBest fountain pens, Eversharp Pen
cils, and repairing. Hallowe'en Goods. 
Dance Invitations and Programs. Pen
nants and Pillow Tops. Tech Recog'- 
nitioti and Seal Pins. Rings.  Frater
nity Jewelry, etc.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, 
JENKINS ARCADE
KUPIENIIEIMER flAfl1>c 
CLOTHCRAFT LIUIllcJS
Jagciuau & Spicket
Tho Men's Store ol Hunt End
6121 I*enn Ave., - East End
G rown 
Not Overgrown
Some big banks may 
think they have out
grown the little ac
counts.
Welcome remains 
our woj'cl to the small 
depositor.
Capital and Surplus,
$1 / ,124.136,20
Mellon National bankPlttsbuirh, Pa.
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
"Mow many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time?" she 
asked the LIONESS
"Only ONE,"replied the Lioness 
 '* but it's a LION 1"
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10
BUT THEYRE MURADS
MURADS would be lower 
priced if we left out all or part of 
the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties grown  
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MURADS 
they'd only be Foxes i
Judge for Yourself! 
We call special attention to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
d>f}taHJtJ\od "/ Ihf llyhcjl Grade Turhuhand U/t/pli,in Cnj.inttei in Iht World
pillimi
TECH BARBER SHOP |
NEAREST TO TECH 
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
NcarcHt and Best Laundry 
Agency 
WUOUim^
08022183

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1920.
NAT
FEATURING
KNOX HATS
bccausc, down to the smallest 
detail, they arc the 
BEST MADE
We also have 
Stetson, Trimble and 
Connett Hats 
$5 to $20
Jageman & Spickert
East End foj|augwsiijsiugiygys|i
ALUMNI NEWS
EDDIE HIRSCH 20 NEW 
VABSITY CLAN SECRETARY
C121 Penn Ave.
TRANSIT AND LHVEL8 
ALL SUPPLIE8 FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
CLEVELAND M
Enolnoora' Equlpmont, Inotrumentn of Proclnlon, Bluo Print 
and Brown Print Papero and 
Cloth.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 8IXTH STREET
Third United " 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A M.
nnd 8:00 P. M.Young; People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial wclcome to all
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu
dents, 15c, at 0 o'clock.Christian Endeavor7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Hoad and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
nBLLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bolloflold nnd Fifth Avanuo
Rev. Robert MnoGownn, D. D., 
Minister
InmulilliK Borvloo II thrb al
Sunday school at 10. I
Christian DJnrtoavor at 7.
Wo want the Tooh hoys to al
terni our Morvlooii and loarn lo know Dtn un tho oonirrQKatlon "f 
"Friendly looplo". A hearty wel 
oomo awaits you,
Albert C. Colmcry, '08, better 
I'.nown among the members of the 
Varsity Clan as Bert," has tendered 
his resignation us Secretary and 
Treasurer to take effect September 
1 Ht, J920. Mr. Colmery has held this 
oflice for several years and during 
that time has proved a big asset to 
the Clan, performing his duties In a 
most eilicient and business-like man
ner. The Clan will feel the loss of 
Mr. Colmeryfor his position has been 
one of great responsibility, requiring 
much time and attention. It is the 
lime element, Mr. Colmery states in 
his resignation, which obliges him to 
band in his resignation at this time, 
lie is now actively engaged in the 
j/,as business and will be unable to 
devote the time necessary to carry 
on the work.
Upon the acceptance of Mr. Colmery's resignation "Eddie" Hirsch, 
'20, was requested to take the oiliee 
of Secretary and Treasurer until the 
next election, which will be held at 
the ANNUAL VARSITY CLAN 
BANQUET, Saturday, November 
20th, in the Hotel Schenley. Mr. 
Hirsch has been very active in school 
athletics and activities and imme
diately accepted the offer. He was 
manager of the championship tennis 
team of 1920, was on the Thistle 
Board in 1918, and has taken part in 
many other student activities. He is 
a member of Theta Fraternity and is 
also a member of Tau Beta Pi, Delta 
Skull, and the Dragon. His home is 
at 923 North St. Clair street, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
It will take some time for Mr. 
Hirsch to become familiar with his 
new position, but he has taken a 
great interest in the work and prom
ises early results. He is anxious to 
receive suggestions, complaints, and 
criticisms from all members of the 
Varsity Clan and will give every 
letter his immediate attention.
Mr. Hirsch also stated that ar
rangements had been made whereby 
all members of the Varsity Clan will 
leceivc the Tartan by keeping up 
their due.s This list corresponds 
with the list of those receiving the 
annual pafjs and has been sent in to 
tho Tartan. It is expected that all 
members of the Clan will be getting 
their Tartan regularly in a week or 
so.
Plans for the big annual Varsity 
Clan Football Banquet to bo held at 
the Hotel Schenley, November 20th 
are progressing very rapidly and all 
indications are that tho entertain
ment this year will surpass that of 
any year heretofore.
IMPORTANT NOTICES
Tho Board of Governors of tho 
Alumni Association, Division of In
dustries, will hold a special mooting 
Thursday evening, Octobor 21, at 
7:80 in tho oillco of Mr. G. L. Tilbrook, Central Building. All of tho 
following members are urged to be 
prosont on time, and if unable to be 
there, to havo an alternate attend 
for them. Important buslnoss to 
como up which must bo transacted 
nt once. G. Naismith, '14; W. C. 
I'lper, 'II; L. II. Leo, '09; .1. W. 
Nungo, '12; L. Haas, '11; (J. R. Wag
ner, 13; W. I*. Braun, '10; W. II. 
Wunderlich, '18; W. S. Kabenstein, 
'09; ). M. Most a, 'II; C. IC. Koontz, 
'17; W. JO. Black, '10.
Meeting was called to order at 8 
p. m. in the oflice of Grieble & Ebeling, 507 Standard Parts building, E. 
JJth and Walnut avenue, with the 
First Vice President in the chair. 
Members present, 18. Minutes of 
meeting June 7th read and accepted. 
Minutes of two meetings of the 
Pittsburgh Clan, August 3 and Sep
tember 2, were read. President 
Schmucker, having permanently left 
the city, the First Vice President as
sumed the duties and oflice of Presi
dent, and the Second Vice President 
those of tho First Vice President, 
leaving vacant the oiliee of Second 
Vice President. We decided to elect 
a Second Vice President, and Boileau 
and Parks were nominated. Boileau 
was elected. Boileau made a report 
of a trip being arranged by the 
Builders' Exchange for purpose of 
inspecting Carnegie Institute of Tech 
nology. Motion waa made, seconded 
and carried, that a committee be ap
pointed to act in conjunction with a 
committee from tho Builders Ex
change in arranging and promoting 
the inspection trip to Pittsburgh. 
Motion was amended, seconded and 
carried that the chair appoint three 
men, one from each school. Motion 
was made,'seconded and carried, that 
the Cleveland Clan go to the Wash 
ington-Jefferson game in Pittsburgh, 
November 20, in a body, if possible, 
and the Secretary to correspond with 
the Athletic Association and deter
mine what arrangements can be 
made in regard to securing reserved 
seats for members of the Clan who 
can go and report results at Novem
ber meeting. Motion made, seconded 
and carried, that the Secretary corre
spond with Secretary of the Cleve
land Society of  Engineers about 
securing a room for our monthly 
meetings. Motion made, seconded
and carried, that a membership com
mittee of three be appointed, to look 
up new members, and to keep 
touch with present members. Motion 
made, seconded and carried, that the 
Secretary and the entertainment
committee look into the matter of
securing a room at jthe Cleveland 
Engineering Society, at Hotel Statler, for card party and for regular 
meetings. Meeting adjourned.
EXCHANGES 
H. T. R. Aude, 05, who has been appointed Associate Professor of 
Mathematics to fill the vacancy left 
by Professor A. W. Smith, now head 
of the dopartment, following Dr. 
Taylors resignation, was instructor 
in mathematics at Colgate from 1905- 
07, receiving the degree of Master of 
Science in 1907. Following this he 
was instructor in mathematics at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
from 1907-1911, assistant Professor 
at the same place from 1911-1918, 
and Associate Professor of Mathe
matics, 1917-1919.Colgate Maroon.
Ohio University men are taking 
great interest in their debating ac
tivities. Many of the men are get
ting in line for intercollegiate try
outs in preparation for the strong 
schedule which will be announced 
soon.
NIGHT SCHEDULES
The Tartan may be obtained by 
night students on each Wednesday 
and Thursday night from 7:20 until 
9:30 at the following places: Indus
tries Building, Tartan Office, Room 
1G2; Science Building, corridor, near 
lower entrance; Margaret Morrison, 
corridor, near west entrance; Central 
Building, corridor, near Post Office.
The Tartans will be placed upon a 
table in a conspicuous place and those 
students who have paid their assess
ment of one dollar will be expected 
to take one. Students who have not 
paid the assessment should do so at 
once at either of two places, the Tar
tan Office or Store Room, Industries 
Building.
The Tartan Office will be open each 
Wednesday and Thursday night from 
7:20 until 9:30. Any night school 
material for publication, or assess
ments, will be accepted, and any ad
justments made or questions an
swered. Contributions from night 
students will be appreciated.
Attention Industry Alumni
Let us put the Industry Association over 
the top. Every member get a member.
LINTON TRUNK AND BAG CO.
Manufacturers 
BRIEF CASES BOSTON BAGS
BOSTON BAGS TRUNKS
SUIT CASES LAUNDRY BAGS
10 per cent discount to students.
943 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA.
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome nand Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGOMichigan Blvd. Efldg. Corner Washington St.
ST. LOUISArcade Building
NEW HAVENHotel Taft 
BOSTON Little Building 
CLEVELANDAthletic Club Bldg.
WASHINGTON Woodward Bldg. opp. Shoreham Hgtel 
SAN FRANCISCO Whitney Building 133 Geary Street
GET READY
ior the
BIG FALL PARTY 
Oakland Community House
3904 FORBES ST. 
Thursday, October 21
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avomio and Novillo Stroot 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Roctor 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Anslstant
Sunday Sorvicon, 8:00 A. M.., 11:00 A. M. 
and 8:00 P. M.cebbeSe Monii Blblo cdtrr at 10:00. lod 
by Dr. Calvin.All Studonta Genuinely Woloomod.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masons: 0:30, 8:00. 9:00, 10:00 and 11:00
L. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Pow 58. Mlddlo Aisle, for Toch Studonta.
All Eastern Clan members should 
make a nattempt to attend the Le
high football game October 30 at 
Bethlehem. The Tech Band will be 
there as well as a number of students 
and alumni from Pittsburgh.
All Clan members anticipating 
attending the W. & J. game or any 
of the other home games should write 
to the Graduate Manager at once to 
obtain reserved seats.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS 
Alumni Federation
At the Board meeting of the 
Alumni Federation, held Wednesday, 
October 13, the following officers 
were elected for the coming year:
11 
12 
12 
09
14 
12
15
President.....................Alan Bright,
1st Vice President. .W. H. Ritts, 
2nd V. Pres...Genevieve Cuslnva, 
3rd Vice President.J. B. Sprague, 
4th V. Pres.. .Mrs. J. I. Johnston,
Secretary.........Genevieve Cuslnva,
Treasurer...............G. L. Til brook,
FOOTBALL RESERVATIONS
Tho past week has brought about 
the inauguration of tho plan to sell 
leserved seats for the football 
games, a plan which will be carried 
out for tho balance of tho season. I 
This idea was installed to meet the! 
request of tho groat number of 
pooplo woh wished to bo sure of their' 
neats in the grandstands regardless 
of what time they came, as well as 
to provide facilities for taking care 
of parties in a group. Tickots will be 
on sale at Spauldings and Ilonus 
Wagner's sporting goods stores at 
tho beginning of each week. Tho 
prices for reserved seats for tho Uni
versity of Cincinnati and Allegheny 
games will bo 50c and tho Wash
ington and Jefferson game, $1.00.
HJran(Clothes
FOR YOUNG MEN AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
There are 57 different kinds of spirit 
in the schools,
The kind that's practiced by the wise, 
And that professed by fools.
The kind set forth by Seniors,
The Sophomores and Frosh.
The Juniors also have their kind,
I say they doBe Gosh.
There're others I could write about 
From rise to set of sun,
But honestly Ive quite forgot 
The other fifty-one.The Green and White.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - -  $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Schsnlcy 0120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
Oakland Moit Popuar Eatlno Placo
114-116-118 Atwood St.. Pittsburgh, Pa
Pay your Alumni dues NOW to get
the Tartan free for the year.
PAY YOUR ALUMNI DUES!
..S.****************.!.*****.!.***.!.
Carnegie Men and Women in the East!!!
All out to South Bethlehem 
October 30, 1920
CARNEGIE vs LEHIGH
After the game, the Philadelphia Clan has arranged a 
Carnegie Tech dinner at the Arcadia Restaurant, Broad and 
Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. This dinner is scheduled for 
8:00 P. M. Trains leave Bethlehem for Philadelphia at 4:35, 
5:30 and 6:32.
President Hamerschlag, Haaren, Tilbrook, and if pos
sible Coach Steffen and Captain Godden will be on hand.
THIS IS YOUR SCHEDULE FOR OCTOBER 30, 1920
2:30 P. M. South Bethlehem............Carnegie vs. Lehigh
8:00 P. M. "Arcadia Phila.............Big feed and reunion
For further details watch the Tartan or write Mr. L. E. 
Exline. 505 Real Estate Trust Building, Phila., Pa.
CA. U.HU lieu
Men will look better 
this season
This seasons style is quite dif
ferent; and many college men 
will be glad, because it is more 
comfortable and easy-looking 
than the soldier-like models of 
past seasons.
The new coats have a free 
swing from the shoulders  
the waist line is lower and not 
shaped inthe vent is shorter 
and behaves better.
And remember there is art
in the cut of a full coat. It 
must hang right when you sit 
or standwhen its buttoned 
or unbuttonedwhen your 
arms are up or down.
Art in design is what has 
made the Style reputation of 
Society Brand Clothes. And 
all-wool fabrics along with 
fine hand-tailoring hold these 
clothes to the lines of the 
design.
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING THE MARKET, LOOK 
FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE
ALFRED DECKER COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES, Limited, fat Canxds
CHICAGONEW YORKMONTREAL
STYLE HEADQUARTERS1 where iorifttj U&ran llothes aresold
BOGGS & BUHL
501 Federal Street
GEO. IVI. WILSON
225 Fifith Ave., Chamber ol Commerce Bldg., Wood & Diamond St.
