SHIELDS
Tower B
KEMMLER
Chi O
MOORE
KKG
KIRCH
Citcom
GOLTSMAN
Tower DmUBKU
Tower D
1 UKKl
Tower C
VOL. 46No. 9 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., NOV, 18, 1952
ROTC To Elect Military Ball Queens
PanHell Plans Rushing 
For Second Semester
For the first time on the Carnegie Tech campus, second semester 
freshmen women will be eligible to pledge a sorority. The PanHell 
ope*' houses will be held on January 31 and February 1. All fresh
men, upperclassmen, and transfer women are encouraged to attend 
these open houses in order to ac-4
quaint themselves with the girls in 
the seven sororities.
Minimum Factor 
The rushing period has been Shortened xo one month, beginning January 31 and ending on March 3. This period will include both luncheon dates and parties. The first parties will be open to all those women eligible to attend open house. However, only those girls who make a minimum factor 
of 2.00 are eligible to attend any sororitys second party or to pledge any sorority. The installation of pledges later in the semester will be based on the pledge factor.
There will be a second rushing period beginning on the Monday of the third week of school in September. This period will consist of two weeks of luncheon dates and one party given by each sorority.
Advantages There are many advantages to the change in the rushing system of which two are explained below. Since the girls may now pledge 
[Continued on page 8]
Six Receive Keys 
For High Score 
In Frosh Exam
Know your school, is the mot
to of the six freshman students 
who ranked at the top of the class in tradition test scores. Those at
taining a perfect or near-perfect score were Nancy Carol Fee, Pat Hoyer, Robert Lindsay, Bob Engelmore, John Drgon and Tom Schriempf.
Each of the winnexs received a silver Outstanding Student key s appropriately engraved Tradition JEkam52. Over 340 freshmen1
 Participated in the test which was 
administered last month by StuY Dinner
YWCA-YMCA Thanksgiv
ing dinner will be held in the 
Carnegie Union on November 
23. Featured speaker will be 
Dr. James P. Orr of the Dorm o n t Presbyterian church. 
Tickets are available at $1.25 
from Y cabinet members, 
the Y office in the Union, 
or htrough intraschool mail.
Cheering Group Being Start 
Will Attend Sports Functions
Carnegie's Student Council has undertaken a plan which is aimed 
at improving the student cheering at the schools sports functions. 
Realizing that the main problem doesnt lie with the cheerleaders, 
but in improving the student bodys response, Council is attempting 
to organize a pep club to support#-----------------------------------------------
the cheer leaders at the games.
The organization, of a pep club 
would somewhat resemble the 
West Point drill team (as far as 
its support from the stands) and be composed of all who claim any interest in student cheering.
Write Cheers 
Several colleges have such pep groups which are well organized. The members sit in a reserved section of the stands and usually wear some mark of distinction
ASME
The American Society ot 
Mechanical Engineers will 
have a smoker at the DU 
house tonight at 8 p.m. Mr. 
Charles E. Wangeman, head of 
the bureau of placements, will 
speak on Conduct in an In
terview. Refreshments will 
be served.
<cap, jacket, or emblem). The pep club usually has several non-game functions, such as writing new cheers and trying to increase attendance at all sports functions.
Since the club needs money to undertake all these activities, it must try to raise it by sponsoring dances and selling food, programs, 
etc. at the games.
Also Track Meets
Student Council and the cheerleaders have decided to undertake the basic organization at Tech. No definite time has been set for the first meeting, but they hope that all interested students will fill out the form below and drop it in the intra-school mailbox addressed to Student Council.Although the football season is over, Council would like to have the club functioning in time for the first basketball game. During the spring the club could give much-needed student support to the track meets and other less re
nowned sports.
Want To Cheer?
I would be interested in organizing a Pep club on the Car
negie Tech campus. Please contact me at the address below in 
regards to the first meeting.
NAME ................................................................................CLASS
SCHOOL ADDRESS ................................................TELEPHONE.
COMMUTE? YES NO
Scabbard And Blade Sponsored 
Dance Features Lee Kelton
This years Military ball, sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, will 
feature the music of Lee Kelton and his band. The dance will be 
held November 22 in the mens gym.
From the candidates pictured above, an honorary colonel and
--------------------------------------------? two lieutenant colonels will be
commissioned by Colonel D. A. 
Morris. The ROTC members will 
vote for the candidate of their 
choice in class on Thursday.
Committees for the dance inclube Bill Stewart, general chair
man; Sam Cerni, elections; John 
Ake and Ronald Bugos, decora
tions; Bill Smith, publicity; and 
Earl Moses, tickets.
The Military ball is an ail 
school event. Admission will be 
$2.50 and there will be no flowers. 
The attire is formal: tux, or uniform. Tickets will be available this week in Skibo or may be 
purchased from ROTC students.
Theme of the decorations includes early Americana with plans 
underway for gaint-size illustrations of historic documents and 
buildings. Also featured this year 
will be a fresh assortment of cartoons portraying war and its 
relationship to the soldiers who fight it.
Coat checking will be by courtesy of Alpha Phi Omega. Coke 
sales will also be conducted by 
APO. A local photographer will make available photos of the 
couples. Admission will be by the 
mens gym door nearest to Schenley park.
CHAPEL SPEAKER
Dr. Solomon B. Freeh of. 
Rabbi of the neighboring 
Rodef Shalom Temple since 
1934, will be the speaker at 
the chapel service on Novem
ber 25. His topic for the chapel 
service is Faith and Frustation.
Dr. Herbert Simon 
To Receive Grant 
For Research Use
Dr. Herbert A. Simon, head of 
the department of industrial man1 
agement, is one of 45 scholars to j 
receive a grant of $5,500 from the j 
Ford Foundation for research in 
fields related to human behavior. 
Dr. Simon was selected on the1 basis of a recommendation sub
mitted by a special committee of I 
leaders in the field of the behavI ioral sciences.
UMOC Winner
The annual Ugly Man or. 
Campus competition adminis
tered by Alpha Phi Omega 
for the purpose of raising 
money for the Campus chest 
has ended in a sweeping vic
tory for Phil Lubitz of Beta 
Sigma Rho. Lubitz defeatec 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon's Bil* 
Stewart by 711 votes and 
$82.29 was added to the Cam
pus chest.
COHEN
AEPhi
SCHILLING
KAT
BRECHIN
Tri Delt
PICKETT
Tower A
DI STEFANO
DG
ROSE
KAT
BAHL
Sig Kap
BARRY
DG
GROVETri Delt
PENNEY
Chi O
STERN
Tower C
TROOP
Tower A
BURKE
Sig Kap

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 18, 1952
Russian Communists Gather; 
Stalin Still Leads Party
Rushing
All upperclass and transfer 
girls who are interested in be
ing rushed by Carnegie sorori
ties this year must sign in the 
Dean of Womens office before 
December 1.
By Professor Thomas T. Helde
During the first two weeks of last month, Moscow was the scene 
of the nineteenth All-Union Communist party congressa significant 
gathering of Russian Communist party representatives together with 
observers and sympathizers from affiliated political groups in 44 other 
nations. The Russian Communist party must not be confused with 
the government of the Soviet Union, for the two are legally quite 
separate organizations; but it effectively shapes national policy and 
provides doctrinal guidance for non-Russian Communist parties.
Before the Congress met, rumors were cheap and wishful think
ing plentiful among American commentators to the effect that some 
sort of revolution in the high command of the Communist party 
would take place; or, less sensationally, that Stalin would take the 
opportunity to indicate his successor. These speculations were gen
erally nipped in the bud on October 2, just three days before the con
gress opened, when the Russian magazine Bolshevik published a 50 
page article by Stalin, which provided, in essence, a revision of 
earlier Marxian and Leninist doctrines. Stalin propounded economic 
theories of value and exchange which would be suitable for a purely 
communist rather than a socialist economy (and which some 
American economic critics found bewildering). Moreover, and per
haps even more interesting from the standpoint of western Europe 
and the Americas, he indicated that conflicts between capitalist 
nations would inevitably result in their downfall.
This article provided a first hint that Stalin was still the leader 
and policy maker of the Communist party; the assumption was borne 
out by the speeches delivered when the congress got under way. 
G. M. Malenkov and V. M. Molotov, both high in the ranks of the 
party and variously considered as Stalins rivals or heirs, echoed at 
great length many of Stalins sentiments; for the remainder of the 
congress, numerous party luminaries energetically restated their 
leaders basic text. The meetings closed on October 15, amidst 
tumultuous cheers for Stalin, who gave a short concluding address 
urging Communists in all nations to work, in conjunction with other 
national political parties, for the furtherance of their ideals.
From reports of the 10 days of oratory and planning which 
occupied the congress, certain tentative conclusions may be drawn. 
Considerable Communist party reorganization has taken place, which 
gives the party even more rigid control over national policies. It 
seems clear that Stalins supremacy remains, at least for the present; 
it is not at all clear who is now Stalins favored heir. Russian mili
tary might continues to be as impressive as ever. Industrial ex
pansion will be pushed through a new Five Year Plan for the devel
opment of Siberian heavy industry. A new direction in doctrine may 
be detected; the wrorld Communist revolution will not openly be led 
by Russia, but it will take place when the capitalist countries through 
war and competition destroy themselves. If this doctrine can be taken 
at face value, it may be that a threat of war with Russia is fairly 
remote; but Russia will certainly be no less interested than formerly 
in developments outside her sphere of influence. And it is quite 
obvious that existing efforts toward industrial growth, military 
strength, and doctrinal unity will be pushed as energetically as ever.
Policies
The North American Acci
dent Insurance company hosital policies are now ready for 
delivery. Please call for yours 
at the registrars office imme
diately.
RENT A TYPEWRITER
CHAPP
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10m
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds M Low M*29.50
American Typewriter Co.
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
ELSKRSNRST YWI.NS5
MILITARY BALL
Nov. 22, 1952, Tech Gym $2.50 
LEE KELTON
Formal, Tux or Uniform
No Flowers
For the BEST
in 
Photographic 
Equipment and Suppliesi LibertyPhoto
Supply
GR 1-6467 - - 436 Wood St.
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IIS RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-year Course
lead* 1
0WTTRI1o 
dT5IS
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. ReaMstic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Send for Bulletin C
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
tSNKRIoNTO L YNTToG-I564 YNTToG-I56 734 YWA
Tech Students To Hear Festival; 
Apply In Music Dept. Office
Five hundred college students in the Pittsburgh district will soon 
have an opportunity to answer pertinent questions dealing with 
contemporary music and art. Each college student entering the stu
dents poll will receive at least two tickets to one of the 11
concerts scheduled during Pitts-4-----------------------------------------------
burgh International Contemporary concerts during the first InternaMusic Festival week. Tickets to 
enable students to participate in 
the poll were made available to 
five Pittsburgh colleges by Henry 
Posner. Carnegie Tech students 
may pick up application blanks in the music department office, FA 153.
Upon applying for tickets, students agree to attend the concert for which they receive tickets and to visit the International Exhibition of Contemporary Painting at 
Carnegie Institute. At the close of the festival they will be asked to fill out a questionnaire dealing with their opinion of contemporary art. During the festival week, participating students on the stu
dent poll will have an opportnnity to meet visiting composers and critics and to discuss current artistic problems with them.
Cash PrizesAt the close of the weeks program, opinions will be submitted to judges who will select eight points that are in their judgment the best answers to the poll. Cash prizes and albums of symphonic recordings will be awarded by the judges.
The festival week, in which col
lege students will submit their opinions will be held Thanksgiving week at the Carnegie Institute in Oakland. Co-sponsored by Carnegie Institute and Pennsylvania College for Women, the festival will present a program of 11 concerts in two series. In addition to the many Pittsburgh choruses 
and musicians who will be heard during the festival week, the United States Military Academy band, the Julliard string quartet, the New String Quartet of New York, 
and the Walden quartet of the University of Illinois will give
tional Contemporary Music Fes
tival ever to be held in the United 
States.
List Participants
Choral groups which are partic
ipating in the festival are the Men
delssohn choir and the Downtown 
chorale, the Bach choir, the Uni-%versity of Pittsburgh glee club and 
the Heinz Chapel choir; both the 
choir and orchestra from Carnegie, 
the Pennsylvania College for Womens glee club, and the Duquesne University concert choir, Catholic school choruses and Public School choral groups, and other organized music groups.
Pittsburghs own composer, Nikolai Lopantnikoff, in residence at 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, was commissioned to compose a chorale work for the festival.
Manon Selected 
To Open Season; 
Begins Thursday
Manon has been selected as the opening opera for the 1952- 
1953 opera season. The production will be presented on the evenings of November 20 and 22 at the Syria Mosque. Singing the title role of Manon will be Licia Albanese, famed Metropolitan soprano.
WRCT
Schedule
WRCT listeners will notice that 
this weeks schedule has been 
changed. This is to make room for 
the new programs, and to provide 
for programs which will be sched
uled in the future. According t* 
the program director, changes wiU 
be made in the next few week* 
until the schedule will be revise^ 
completely and will become per* 
manent.
Patronize
Tartan
Advertisers
Tuesday, November 18
5:55On the Air 
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Linger Awhile 
7:00Abide with Me 
7:30Proudly We Hail 
8:00Music 
9:00Headlines 
9:00Jim Lacey 
10:00Night Train 
11:00SportS and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Wednesday, November 19
5:55On the Air 
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Record Rendezvous 
8:00Music
8:30Folk Music Hour 
9:00Phi Mu Alpha Hour 
10:00Musical Miscellany 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Thursday, November 20
5:55On tne Air 
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Tech Ramblers 
6:30Marys Music Hall 
7:00Carnegie Music Hall 
7:30Music 
8:00Dixie Belles 
8:36Bachelor Girl 
9:00Headlines 
9:00Discs with Eld 
9:30Musical Poetry 
10:00Jim Lacey 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Friday, November 21
5:55On the Air 
6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Chin and Spin 
7:00Music8:00Music Extraordinary 
9:00Headlines
9:00Music Extraordinary (Cont.) 
9:30Science Fiction 
10:00Dixieland Hour 
6:00The WRCT Symphon Hour 
9:00Headlines9:00WRCT Miniature Theater 
10:00Music 11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Monday, November 24
5:55On the Air 6:00Lucky Strike News 
6:15Music6:30-Twenty Questions 
7:00Lets Cool One 
7:30Live Music 
8:00Music 
9:00Enosupo 10:00Musical Poetry 
10:30Music 11:00Sports. Music 
11*: 15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
CHRISTMAS GIFT... 
BOOK SUGGESTIONS!
PETER PAUPER PRESS BOOKS
At Prices That Cant Be Beaten
"SKIRA ART BOOKS"
All Reasonably Priced and Beautiful
"CHILDREN'S BOOKS"
Wonderful Selection For All Ages
Check Our Gift Suggestion Table! 
Christmas Cards & Wrappings!
Shop Now! Relax Later!
C. I. T. BOOKSTORE
A

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 18, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPat S
Fraternities and Sororities
FBRS CH 9hhL-ST WSe nRT 
lFty ,tDD dUaEFt*
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
MILITARY RAT I
Nov. 22, 1952, Tech Gym $2.50 
LEE KELTON
Formal, Tux or Uniform
No Flowers

For Better 
Dry Cleaning..
MFty
ary'UEr
CampusCleaners
4609 Forbes St.
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
w
12 Inch
METAL RULERS 
FREE to All 
C.I.T. Students
Second Major Production Opens 
Drama Dept. Offers Golden Boy
Last night, the drama department opened
duction of the 1952-1953 season. 
Boy, is the story of a musician-pr-----------------------------------------------4
CIT Open House 
A Great Success, 
9,000 Viewed Tech
Carnegie Techs open house last 
Wednesday evening has won citywide acclaim and has been pronounced a great success by administrators of the evening. An estimated 9,000 parents, friends, and prospective CIT students crowded the campus to view demonstrations and exhibits of the five col
leges. Approximately 400 high schools were invited, and there were present representatives from most of these.
Excellent newspaper and radio coverage and the influence of Tech students upon their high school alma maters were responsible for the large crowd. This was only the second such open house in the past 16 years. It has been renewed to interest high school students and their parents in CIT. The ad
its second major proThe play, Clifford Odets Golden 
zefighter and his struggles in and 
out of the ring.
An outstanding cast gives the 
show a realistic atmosphere and a fairly good picture of the professional fighting business. The 
part of the Golden Boy, Joe Bonaparte, will be played alternately by Dan Levin and Charles Bateman. Others in the cast are: his sympatheic father, John Braquitta; his manager, Harry Lantz; his girl, Mary Ann Benedict; his energetic trainer, Paul Shively; and also,; Barry Frank, Judy Frey burg, Ar! lene Stadd, Harvey Katz, and Mili ton Katselas. Although it is not a ! policy of the department, there are | several sophomores in the pro! action  Frank Gorshin, Ted j Goodell, James Feldman and Gene ! Lasko.
The sound portion of Golden Boy was a particularly difficult 
[Continued on page 8]
ministration feels that this emphasis is better than that in previous years, which attracted many curiosity seekers.
Patronize Our Advertisers
By the Three Blind Mice 
BLIMEY GUVNOR . . .
/ Morewoods open house, the eleva
tor in C tower stuck betwixt the 
u floors. This is no common occur1 ence, but Jove, in the lift were one 
v woman, 11 fellows, and the HomePhoto by Snyderman
Scotch n Soda Begins To Roll
Mitzie Cottle, Joe Snyder, Ann St. John, Jerry Adler, Joy Davenport* * *
S hS Accepts Script; 
Club Plans Dec. Party
Hoping to get the show on the road much earlier than last year, 
the executive board of Scotch n Soda has announced the tentative 
script plans for this year's show. The main idea of the script was 
written by Joy Davenport and Ann St. John, both workers in last
years show Good Heavens. 4-----------------------------------------------
Board chairman Jerry Adler dis
closed last week that a little dif
ferent plan is being used this year.
Although the script written by Joy
time during December when the final plans for this years show may be disclosed. Further notice of this party will appear in the Tartan.
and Ann was accepted, many ad
ditional ideas will be added by 
other members of a board com
posed of all who submitted scripts 
plus any who are interested. The 
chairman of this writing commit
tee will be Ronnie Friedman, coj 
writer of Good Heavens.
In addition, the music and lyrics j 
for this springs show will be com! 
posed by Mitzie Cottle and Joe ! 
Snyder, both music majors. Mitzie ! 
' starred as Venus in last Mays pro
duction, where she both sang and 
acted.
Joy and Ann, junior P&Ds, have 
been working on their idea since 
last summer and presented it to 
the Scotch n Soda board in rough 
form last week. The final script 
and music will not be ready until 
early next semester.
There will be a party for the 
present members of the club somelo a raindrop, all umbrellas are the same
Yes, the nice part about umbrellas is their 
similarity. When the need is urgent, any 
one will work.
When it comes to telephone equipment, 
however, a general likeness isnt enough. 
Parts are engineered to be exactly the 
same no matter where they are used. Only 
such rigid standardization made possible 
die smooth and interlocking system that 
serves you from Penobscot, Maine, to 
Pescadero, California.
We re reminded of it sharply in times of 
disaster  from flood, blast or hurricane.
Telephone men from other areas can come 
and pitch right in with the same methods, 
tools and equipment.
But one Bell System asset isnt stand
ardized. That is its people. It takes able, 
original minds to keep our business 
moving ahead. For college graduates 
qualified for and interested in such widely 
differing work as research, engineering, 
operations and administration, we offer 
many opportunities.
\our college placement people will be 
glad to tell you more about it.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
coming queen.
W&JJ FAD TOPS . . . Some of 
the boys really look sharp with 
their new haircuts courtesy of the 
W&J barber shop. They would 
y really make good candidates for the UMOC contest.
NAVY LINGO . . . Two boys wandering seemingly aimlessly around the various towers of 
Morewood Gardens were stopped by a hostess and asked what they sought. T^ey replied they were seeking the head. The hostess 
dutifully sent the bewildered to Mrs. Hagins.
HOLD THE MATCH . . . Or> chestra rehearsal met with a catastrophe when the power failed, plunging the session into darkness. Candles, matches, cigarette lighters, and kerosene lamps quickly swung into action to complete the stirring strains of Matchlight Becomes You.
ITS A LONG WAY TO ... TwoDUs volunteered to take a Tech co-ed to her home some 40 miles yonder after a Saturday night 
party didnt realize the implications of the situation. The trip to was fine, but the trip back consisted of an empty gas tank, a pail full of holes donated by a farmer for petrol, and the crushing of the drivers derby. All this and mid-terms too.
WANTED: MEN ... A cry is heard from the Tech gals for men to participate in the Tarquan 
p>show. Don your bathing suit, Tartan, and backstroke your aid to the fair mermaids.
UNCLE EZRA AGAIN . . . That git-to-gether them military fellers were rustling up is set for Novemberty twenty-two. Them there Tech gals shore will be a-pleased to git a bid for this hyr shindig.
HAT IN THE FACE, JAKE . . . Who is that? she cried while we watched dumbstruck as Dr. Warner stumbled away with his hat pulled down over his eyes. Dont you * know  you just 
squashed the lid of the college president? Well, theres only one Homecoming every year.
* F'meft MeJke ever made. <
mUBKK
MEDICO .F.Q.-*2 wNT6 rw lDF iU*A rsh-oNKR n-WIWSTRRe iNTRMYILLm 
FeLIRoo U *WoTRRoom E-o6NLS iNTR U
MEDICO MEDALIST *1.50
When filter turns brownin Medico 
Pipes or Cigarette Holdersthrow 
It away, with nico
tine, Juices, flakes, 
tan ft has trapped.
Insert a fresh filter , 
tor cooler, cleaner and dryer smoking.
Imported Briar.
WM* variety of tyta sad rite*, 
i Wrto Medico Kpe* Inc, N.Y.22. for ooklet 0i

---------------------------------------------------

*age 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 18, 1952
Letters
Skallyivags
Editor, the Tartan:
Damon and Pythias;
Each was a brother 
helping the other 
realistic, 
altruistic,
living,
giving!
An analogue exists 
amidst the moral mists 
of CIT,
it seems to me.
But here,
I fear, 
all dignitys forsaken.
Not give 
and live 
these men exalt whats taken.
The gymnasts stress,
among their rules, 
conforming dress.
They think us fools!
For were to buy
a shirt and trunks.
From whom? (How sly!)
From them! The sk . . . ally wags!
They sell a book
of rules for games.
But they forsook
the truth with claims:
For men at Tech,
this books addressed.
A careful check
Twas writ out west!
Our locks, they say,
must all be bought 
from their display.
What price they brought!
(Just sixty cents 
is just expense.
The book store's price 
was upped by thrice.)
The gymnast and the salesman.
Brothers in extortion!
Virtues sad distortion!
Lets drink to fabled Greeks!
We live with moral freaks!
Signed,
K. E. L.
ca/i^L&aazs
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 1, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum
1-5380: for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-chief ...................................................... Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager  ........................  David Goldsmith
0WSW5NS5 Editor ..................................................... Dick Durstine
Co-Sports Editor* ............................ Walt Wagner, Fr^ik Fegley
Sena Editor .............................................................. Estelle Herlick
Personnel ManagerDick Christensen. Feature* EditorBill 
Smith. Advertising ManagerStan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business ManagerJerry Seiner. Circulation ManagerJoe 
LeMarca. Photography EditorMartin Snyderman. Reporters 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour, Joan Cummerton, Jane
Sunder, Dave Hubbard, Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner,
Ken Winston Cat Reporter*Barbara Leonard, Pat Maue, 
Jo Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwinelle, Dorothy Down
ing, Mildred Magura, Eunice Brunn, Dick Kendrick, Arlene 
Rosenberg. Sports Reporter*Larry Summerill, Edward Feigenbaum, Robert Steiger, Peter Panidick, Gene OReilly, 
Dick Eppler, James Core. Copy ReaderPaul Carmichael. 
Art StaffJoan Brechin, Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. Photogra
pher*Barbara, Toia, Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gre
gory. Features StaffAndrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin 
Smith, Judy Storch. TypistElayne Nord, Joanne Wagner. 
Headline StaffVan Anderson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. Copy 
Make-Up StaffEllroy Wilhaber, Eton Wildman, Bea Pollock. 
RunnerFred Young. Advertising StaffBruce Steinhart, 
Edward Clark. Circulation StaffDick Guarino, Jay Levy.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription *1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1878. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925.
Member o/ th \s*>ociated College Press.
Editorial
College Press Suffers
During a period of rising costs and prices, such as we 
are going through now, some small producers and those liv
ing on a fixed income are bound to feel the hardships first. 
Such is the case with many of the college publications this 
year. Throughout the past school year many college news
paper printers were faced with increased printing costs, but 
were not able to raise their rates since they were bound by 
contract. However, when the college editors returned to 
their campuses this fall, they found that their contracts for 
the years printing contained hikes of 10 to 30 percent. No 
one without a very broad knowledge of printing and econ
omics can expound on the merits of this increase since such 
is the case with almost everything around us today; but it 
is still making the sledding tough for collegiate newspapers 
this year.
Here* at Tech the Tartan had a little rough going, losing 
$160 on its first four issuesall due to the' increased printing 
and engraving costs plus a drop in advertising. Now that we 
have our feet on the ground and have made $100 on the last 
three issues, all indications point to a solvent year. The weekly 
college papers are not suffering as much (as dailies) since the 
cost hike on the variable printing costs was a much smaller 
percentage of their total publishing expenses.
Many papers are trying to make their way through this 
trouble by increasing advertising rates, cutting down the 
total number of issues published, and obtaining more money 
from their schools. From the campus of Northwestern uni
versity somes a story that angers the exponents of a free 
college press. In past years Northwestern published a daily 
paper, but this year the editors were forced to cut publica
tion to three issues a week in order to meet the increased 
costs. This did not have much effect since the majority of 
the costs were fixed, and now they are debating the neces
sity of only publishing twice a week. Matters were not 
helped by the school including the students activities fee in 
the tuition this year for the first time. The Northwestern
administration claims it cannot increase the grant to the
paper without upping the tuition, and it doesnt think such
a move would appeal to the students.
As most of the larger campuses are scenes of some fair
sized political battles, the Northwestern Daily has no doubt made 
some enemies among campus organizations during its lifetime. 
These people have offered to come to the papers aidproviding 
the paper behaves itself and plays It their way. While such 
offers are often made to city newspapers, they are able to stand 
on their own feet, not being financially dependent on any institu
tion; but the college newspaper has no financial backing to fall 
upon. If such a deal ever materialized, college journalism would 
take a big fall.
Several college editors have said that the recent adver
tising slump was deliberate. Most schools have a rule re
stricting certain manufacturers from advertising m their 
school paper, and these persons thought they could fight this 
ban by having the monopolistic advertising ageney hold up 
the college ads. Thanks to our campus fathers, we didnt be
come a victim of this hoax. However, the universities we 
going to have to realize that unless they give a little help to 
the student press, the quality of college journalism is going 
to decrease in the coming years.
Inquiring Reporter
Students Comment 
On Migrations
By Ken Winston
This weeks question by the Inquiring Reporter 
read: How do you feel toward the mass migra
tions to and from other colleges which have fol
lowed most of our football games this year? Do 
you feel anything should be done to curb, these 
visits.
Tom OShaughenessy, freshman, IMThe cur
rent raids to and from other 
colleges after football games are 
the results of a perverted school 
spirit. Instead of unleashing 
their fervor via the avenue of 
cheering at games and pep ral
lies, certain students have used 
mass migrations as the physical 
demonstration of their zeal for 
Alma Mater. These actions have 
resulted in notoriety at high 
cost: bills for the wanton use of 
others property. Both the expense and poor repu
tation achieved *by these acts could be avoided if 
we exhibited our youthful ardor only at organized 
student functions.
Dick Marchiando, freshman, IMConcerning
the mass migrations, I really 
dont see how they can be pre
vented. If the students were 
told not to do it, this would 
give them all the more cause for 
it. It is only natural that after 
an upset victory, such as Pitt 
over N. D., the students would 
want to let off a little steam. 
This I don't believe is too harm
ful providing they do not get 
destructive, So far there ha 
been some damage which was comparatively small 
for the large number of students that have par
ticipated in these migrations. This probably in
dicates that relatively few of the students are ac
tively destructive. I think that if the outburst erf 
enthusiasm were properly conducted, it would add 
much to school spirit, of which we are now lack
ing.
Phil Lubitz, sophomore, EEThese mass mi
grations are indicative of the 
fact that there still exists some 
school spirit among the students, 
and the administration should 
recognize this fact and not do 
everything possible to discourage 
the expressions thereof. If 
properly conducted, damages 
can be minimized and inter
school relations and friendships 
strengthened through pep rallies 
and visits to other campuses. I 
made myself many friends at W&J as a result of 
my sojourn there and look forward to meeting 
them on a purely social basis. If the administra
tion would not try to extinguish the dying spark 
of school spirit, students would take pride in their 
school; attendance at athletic events, all-school 
functions, and the like would increase; and the stu
dent body would be proud to say that they go to 
Tech, rather than apologizing for merely attend
ing classes on the Tech campus.
Dick Durstine, junior,
jection
physicsMy only obto mass migrations' 
(which, contrary to the state-fl 
ment in the Inquiring Reporter* 
question, are rather infrequent) 
is the possibility of property 
damage. If this could be avoid
ed, the migration would do little 
harm.
The possible objection from 
the class-disruption angle M 
more likely to come from the 
faculty than from the students.
From one point of view, however, the mass4i| 
migration is more effective than the small com
mando raid, and of less hazard to the participant* 
(see picture).
But because of possible property damage, (no4 
to be confused with losses of personal items which 
come as the result of a calculated risk) inter-coi* 
lege migration and raids should be discouraged. 
This is easier said than done. They can hardly 
be prevented, except by cutting out victories, but 
can only by frowned upon by the admimstratic 
and student leaders (whoever they are).
"This has been done already, and is about a# 
that can be done.*

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans End Season 
With 4 and 3 Record
Eddie Miller To Tom Craig Pass 
Connects For Lone Plaid Tally
7$M CRA&, TECHS Loi/t%OOT6ALL 
ORR Ap FLOOR f&ESENTLY
Forth eBEESoTO nE-yume aCC uSo-rsaty 
HONORS. BESIDES H(S#A?S'CATCHING, ^ f 
PUNTING AND BASKETBALL FIATS, HE "WAS , 
AJ^AR.-OWftAST YEARS NEW BASEBALL 
NICK'NAMED GIUE FINGERS' 
IS A SENIOR METALLURGIST AND A 
MEMBER OF THE KAPPA SIGMA FRATERNITY.
Varsity-Alumni Basketball 
Game To Be Held On December 1
Physics Major, Kunze 
Wins Football Contest
Football prognosticater Jay 
KUnze won last weeks Thistle 
award by selecting 13 of the 15 
games on the Tartan contest cor
rectly. Kunze, a commuter, is a 
janitor in the physics department.
Dick Gray, Ronald Marburger, 
Emil Johnson, and Paul Noel also 
had 13 right, but took a back seat 
to Kunze in predicting the point 
spreads.
Basketball coach Mel Cratsley foul-shooting champion, will enhas announced plans for the vartertain the fans with a foulsity-alumni basketball contest shooting exhibition during halfwhich will be held on December 1 time. There will be no admission 
in the Tech gym. A full roster of charge to the game which will bealumni who will participate in the gin at 8:30 p.m. In the prelimina 
game will be printed in next ry contest beginning at 7 p.m., 
weeks Tartan. It is expected that the freshman team will engage a 
these grads will be coached by spirited Newman club contingent, 
former Plaid varsity coach Max Look for further details about this 
Hannen. evening in subsequent issues oi
Alumnus John Irwin, national the Tartan.
FAREWELL SENIORS
The Lehigh game marked the last appearance for four year 
varsity football men Clyde Stahle, left, and Gil Dissen.
NOWCEST BLUE RIDGE LINES MY// /.EST SUPURBE! \y /A
LES BUSES SONT fu) /v\COMFORTABLE \f VflLES DRIVERS SONT ' fA ((S \
COURTEOUS y \ I \jLES SCHEDULES SONT V *FREQUENT ... ET
LES FARES SONT LOW, TRtS LOW
ary'Un 09ylD9d4 FUF4 YralD'9U94 
'UynUU9 9d wUa* 'UynUU9 ,yF0
Liberty Ave. at Grant St, Pittsburgh, P*. CO 1-1800
dIWoTNh YINhR yRe-hTNLSo
Formerly Priced at $3.98
Tuesday, November 18, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
Lehigh Upends Carnegie Tech, 26-6

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6^CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 18, 1952
Intramural Roundup
IM Volleyball, 
Table Tennis 
Play Starts
By Bob Fahle
One week of volleyball compe
tition has been completed 
and already there are hot 
races for the leadership developing in each of the three leagues. Three teams in particular thus far have shown that they are going all out for the championship Cup. Alpha Tau Omega A, Theta 
Xi B, and Sekuds have each hung up two convincing wins in their respective divisions. The Sekuds duo of wins were especially eye-catching as they trampled their opponents 15-1, 15-2 in their matches.
Beta Theta Pi, the Obelisks, Roopsips A, and the Faculty also show two and zero charts, tying for league leadership.
Sparked by the athletic supervisors, Ray Haynes and Earl Birdy, the faculty club has shown sur
prising ability and should be one 
of the teams to keep an eye on for the championship.
Badminton
Noel Gillette, a freshman, is the 
new school badminton champion, replacing Don Braun. In a well 
played match Gillette defeated Sutton 15-12, 15-8 to gain the honors.
Table TennisTeam played started in intramural table fennis on Wednesday, 
but as of now no scores have been reported. There are 17 teams 
in the two leagues, eight in the Republican and nine in the Democratic. The defending school 
champions are the ATOs who have entered two teams.
Dukes Drop Sigma Nus
Sigma Nu, Carnegie Techs intramural football champions for 
1952, played host to Duquesnes intramural champs at the Skibo 
bowl last Friday, and were beaten 25-18. The game proved to be an 
exciting contest with both teams playing heads-up ball.
Sigma Nu drew first blood on a touchdown pass from Don Weaver 
to A1 Blank. Duquesne retaliated on a long pass play to tie the 
score. Then Holthaus passed to Blank to set up the next touch
down. Don Wood took a pass from Holthaus in the end zone to put 
Sigma Nu ahead, 13-7. At half time, however, the score was knotted 
at 13-13.
The second half was dominated by Duquesne with the Dukes 
scoring on two long pass plays. The final score was Duquesne 25, 
Tech 13.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY. For games played on November 22, 1952
Alabama
Pitt
| Baylor 
j Columbia 
Dartmouth 
I Duke 
! Florida 
Harvard 
j Illinois 
Indiana 
Kansas 
Kentucky 
Lafayette 
Michigan 
Notre Dame
Maryland 
Penn State 
SMU 
Brown 
Princeton 
No. Carolina 
Miami 
Yale
Northwestern
Purdue
Missouri
Tennessee
Lehigh
Ohio State
Iowa
NAME ............................................DEP5T..CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
Volleyball Standings 
Plaid Lea?ue 
Team Won Lost
Alpha Tau Omega A" 2 0
Obelisks 2 0
Kappa Sigma A 1 0Roopsips *B 1 0
Theta Xi *A 1 1
Slugs 1 1
Tau Delta Phi ' 0 2
Sigma Nu 'B" 0 2
Beta Sigma Rho 0 2
Kiltie Le&gue
Faculty J 0
Roopsips A2 0
Sigma Nu A 1 0
Delta Tau Delta "B"  1 0
Beta Sigma Rho A" 1 0
Citcom 1 1
Newman 0 1
Kappa Sigma B 0 2
Phi Kappa 0 2
Tartan Leagrue
Beta Theta Pi 2 0
Sekuds 2 0
Theta Xi B 2 0
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1 0
Phi Kappa A 1 0
Alpha Tau Omega B" 0 2
Delta Tau Delta C 0 2
Pi Kappa Alpha 0 2
Delta Upsilon 0 2
A 1953 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules beloiv and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by mid
night Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.4. Each student may submit only one entry. Tf more than one entry is sub
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
8. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1953 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication.
MILITARY BALL
Nov. 22, 1952, Tech Gym $2.50 
LEE KELTON
Formal, Tux or Uniform
No Flowers
University Recreation
iFwDUn
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
w9*rd
For Christmas 
Gift Market 
PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS 
SCULPTURE and 
HANDCRAFTS
For Exhibition and Sale
THE 
STUDART SHOP
722 N. Sheridan Ave., Pgh. 6 
Tues., Wed., Fri.7 to 11 P. M. 
SundayNoon to 6
EWVB-o hWBRIo hW LI EL.R
jnv -n TATTJDRINKNo matter if this vears team is the
underdog, spirits soar at the homecoming 
ally. There are bonfires, pep talks, cheers
and for refreshment, delicious Coca-Cola.
 OTTIEO UNDE* AUTHOBIVY Of THt COCA-COLA COMPANY Y 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
"Cmk*" k  tr*U-mork. O *. * COCA-COtA COM*AKT
Rejected By His High School 
Coach, Shechter Stars At Tech
By Jim Gore
Last Saturday Irving Shecter, ace halfback for Carnegie Tech 
played his last college game. The ^ foot, 8 inch backfielder from
Peabody, a senior P&D student, has come a long way from the time
that he was rejected by his high school coach for being too small to
play football. -----------------------------------------------
the defensive game) although his 
greatest thrill came in offensive. 
On the very first play in which 
he was involved he snatched a 
pass and went for his first TD. 
Never Missed Game 
As an end, Irv did all right, but 
when left half Nick Simsic hurt his leg in spring practice the following season, Johnny Luchock 
was moved to the vacant left 
half spot and Irv was given a 
chance to the right half position. It was here that Shechter showed his ability to carry the pigskin, and as a result he has been start
ing halfback in both his junior and senior years.
Throughout his college cereer Ir\* has never missed a game although a torn knee cartilage in 
his first year and a torn rib cartilage last year gave him some trouble.
Besides being a fine football 
player, Irv is a campus leader. 
He is president of the Varsity C" Club; a member of Delta Skull, 
and active in many campus activities along with holding a scho
lastic scholarship. He is the team 
humorist and respected by all players. He also believes in the no smoke, no drink theorem and 
endeavors to stay in shape all year round.
Irv first started playing around 
with a football when he was 
about seven years old. It was in 
his freshman year at Peabody 
high that the too small edict 
kept him from the team. How
ever, the next season, Irv, who 
had put on some weight, now tip
ping the scales at about 123, made 
the squad, playing as quarterback 
and guard. As a junior he switch
ed to end and remained there until his graduation.
Which InstitutionThat summer, after working 
awhile, Irv decided to join the 
Air Force in order to save enough 
money to finance a college education. After a two year hitch, 
from August 1947 to August 1949, 
he came to the point where he 
had to make up his mind as to which institution of higher learn
ing he wanted to attend. Carnegie 
was chosen, so Irv started to prepare for his technical tests.
While taking the exams at Tech, he went down to see Coach Baker 
and asked if he could try out for 
the football team. Dr. Baker was 
a bit surprised by his request as 
Irv weighed less than 140, and 
only after some persuasion he consented. Irv played mostly de
fense that year (he still prefers
"Helps people of 
many nations understand 
each other,
soys ANDR MAUROIS
Author, lecturer;
Member of the French Academy
"I congratulate you on excellent international 
work. You have helped people of many languages 
and nations to understand each other. You also 
gave them good reasons to believe in mankind, 
in freedom and in themselves.
Each month, Readers Digest editors comb through more 
publications than any one person could read in two years, 
and select whatever seems of outstanding interest.
Efach article is carefully condensed to preserve both its 
>ntent and flavor. The wide range of subjects stimulates 
new interests, encourages a further search for knowledge.
In a real way, Readers Digest helps continue the educa
tion of millions of readers in America and all o\ ir the world. 
? ? ?
In November Readers Digest, youll want to read Meaning of 
the Hiss CaseSenator Nixons inside story of the famous case; 
How to ArgueStuart Chase describes a proven technique for 
winning arguments; 13-page book condensation: Postmarked Mos
cowMrs. Alan Kirks (wife of our ex-Ambassador) story of life 
in Moscow today.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 18, 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage T
Letter To EditorCouncil Meets 
Is Photoed, 
Plans Dance
The November meeting of the 
Evening Student Council was held 
on Sunday; November 2. Previous 
to the meeting, a group picture 
of the Council was taken for pub
lication in this years Carnegie 
Tech yearbook, The Thistle. Pic
tures of graduating evening stu
dents, fraternities, and sororities 
are all to appear for the first time 
in many years.
It was decided that the students 
whose names were erroneously 
omitted from the handbook as in
signia award winners, be given 
their keys at the Christmas assem
bly.
A report on the success of the 
Monte Carlo carnival was given, 
and plans were immediately set 
rolling on the square dance of No
vember 15.
Also, at the November meeting, 
a letter was presented before 
Council for their approval, con
cerning some discrepancies be
tween evening students and the 
architecture department. The let
ter was approved by Council and 
copies sent to President Warner; 
Dean Cleeton, director of evening 
classes; and Prof. Shear, head of 
the department of architecture.
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporters........Anna Mae Legosh, George Schussler, Charles Keller,Ray Schwalm.
Second Meeting 
Of Newman Club
On Sunday, November 9, the 
club rooms on Craig street were 
the scene of the second meeting 
of the evening school Newman 
club. It was decided that all ipeetings of the organization be here
after held on the second Sunday 
of each month. The business meet
ings, which are slated to begin at 
7:30 p.m. are to be followed by an address by prominent speakers of the Pittsburgh district. A club room social will then follow.
The officers urge all Catholic evening students, who are not yet members, to come take in a meeting and see what benefits the organization offers them. The Newman club is not of a strictly religious nature. The socials planned throughout the year can back up this statement. They do not intend 
to make Saints out of students, but would like to help Catholic students to better understand their religion.
Plans are now under way for a spaghetti dinner to be held at the Carnegie Union on Sunday, November 30, at 7:00 p.m. The assessment for the dinner is sixty-five cents per person. A# program of scenic slides and dancing will follow.
All reservations are to be in no later than Tuesday, November 25. For reservations, call Ray Schwalm, FI 1-2854 or Vic Sabol at EL 1-2294.
Sigma Delta Phi 
Initiates Four9 
Plans Big Dance
At the monthly meeting of Sig
ma Delta Phi held at Carnegie 
Union on Sunday afternoon, No
vember 9, four students were ini
tiated into the ranks of the fra
ternity. They were Bill Sommerfield, Bob Fry, Jim Soltis, and 
Bob Haney.
One of the most important items on the agenda was the plan for the annual dinner-dance which is held each year prior to Christmas. The affair this year will be held at the Mona Lisa night club on Route 51 in Brentwood.
After the business proportion of the meeting was terminated, Leroy Mason presented a series of sound films on the equipment and operating procedures of the Bell Telephone company.
BELTEPHO
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for 
advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at 
SHIELDIKMR if you are one of the men we are looking for. 
We have openings right now for qualified engineers and 
designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need 
top-notch men to help us in our long-range military 
program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars 
and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
lar-sdrCT provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour reek 
as a base. Premium is paid when longer work tteek is 
scheduled. a
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
More BOUNCE to the OuncePatronize Tartan Advertisers
vestmenta cigaretteTHE GUY SAID 
IT WILL BETHE 
\ RICHEST^ 
W MINE ^
H ,N E jWORLD1./
HOW CAN THEY 
TELL SO SOON ? 
REMINDS ME ^ 
AND IT ) SFTHETIME 
ONLY <1 BOUGHT THE 
COST A BROOKLYN 
BUCK J7 bridge!
A share! J
THIS 
GOLD-MINE 
STOCK WILL 
> MAKE * 
US ALL
SrCCrEtar-o*1
rich
oW

---------------------------------------------------

F*se 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 18, 1052
Crushed By Exams, 
Alchemist Bows Out
By John J. John, Jr., as told to R. Durstine
Each of us has come face to face with the famed Carnegie plan 
and its classroom operation, but few realize that the plan works in 
the lives of instructors just as it does in the world of students.
the Carnegie Plan is somethingFirst, by way of explanation, 
like Godno-one is quite sure 4 
what it is, but everyone feels he 
ought to believe in it, and it is 
sanctioned by the administration. 
This being so, it is proper that the 
Plan should operate in the lives of 
all concerned, oppressed and oppressor alike. (This may be read to mean anything the reader sees fit.)
Problem Solving:Of course the obvious application of the Plan as relates to in
structors is the teaching of courses taught according to Plan, where 
the instructor is on the opposite side of the fence from the student. But let us consider rather a case 
where the professor is in somewhat the same fix as are his proteges all the timethe position where he must obtain information for him
self and solve problems.
This state of affairs appeared not long ago, when grades for the 
first half semester came due.
Grades are one exception to the rule that it is more blessed to give than to receive. As a matter of 
fact, there seems to be little blessing taking place in either direction during the administration of the j fatal news.Step MethodPerhaps the most popular methed of evaluating students is the old step system, where students 
names are put on cards and thrown down a flight of steps. The position in which they land determines the grade. I wish to consider here, however, some of the less famous grading methods.
First of all is the class participation approach. A person who 
talks a great deal is judged to be 
either a genius or a bluff. On this consideration he receives either A 
or D. That person who says but little is either profound or rather stupid (B or D). The one who talks 
not at all must be either very profound or extremely stupid (A or 
R).
Finally, the student who never appears in class must be either so 
bright he does not need to attend or so lazy he doesnt want to.
Marks in this category range from top to bottom, depending on the state of the professorial ulcers at the time of grading.
Neatness ApproachBy the class participation ap
proach, it is hard to tell whether high or low grades will result from a given action. The determination of the proper action is ttp to the student.
Similar to the class participation 
method is the neatness approach, which results from the instructors viewing of written work by the student. Great neatness may be 
taken as indicative of great skill or as the hallmark of mediocrity. On this basis the decision is made.
Likewise, the sloppy job shows 
the student to be either a brilliant 
person who does not bother with 
appearance, or an idiot who knows 
nothing of it. Here again it is up 
to the student to decide the best course of action.
A DisgraceIn addition to the above, there are the instructors who grade according to examination grades, 
homework, and student ability. But these are rather prosaic, plugin type methods, and are indeed a disgrace to logic and the plan.
It all boils down to a case of 
poor coordination on the part of one J. John, who zigged when he 
should have zagged, talked when he should have been silent, and did a neat job when it would have been best to be messy. But that is the way the ball bounces, so to speak.
So for this and other reasons, I have decided to join the French Foreign legion, or transfer to Pitt, or do some other such act of great pennance.
Therefore I bid you all a fond farewell, though perhaps you will hear from me again from time to time.
Rushing
[Continued from page 1] 
during their second semester in 
school, they will have a longer 
time in sorority than has previ
ously been the case. The second 
advantage will come from the 
longer pledge period, which will 
give the girls a greater amount of 
time to become acquainted with 
the workings of the sorority. By 
the time of their installation they 
will be better equipped to assume 
responsibilities in the sorority.
Dean Schaefer will be glad to 
answer any questions which the 
rushees may have. Some time in the near future a meeting will be held where Eunice Brunn, president of PanHell, will ti'y to clarify any further questions.
Visit E*trope
A trip to Europe is not im
possible if you plan your own 
itinerary making the cost low. 
For more information come to 
a meeting on Monday, No
vember 24, at 4:30 p.m. in the 
Dormitory Council room, 
Morewood Gardens, or call 
Mary Whigham, JA 1-1207.
Play
tContinued from page 3] 
operation. With many fades and 
cues the technician literally be
came a character in the play, re
creating sounds of traffic, a carou
sel, cheering crowds, and a gyrrvYour I.D. CARD Means15% p
TIME SHOP
On
e Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts Watches  Jewelry Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AYE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
MILITARY BALL
Nov. 22, 1952, Tech Gym $2.50
Drr brD*F
Formal, Tux or Uniform
No Flowers
WORLD'S PORTWLt 
SPIED CHAMPION
Jhe emesi-writm 
portable mr built I
yLOW YLITLGt 6ReC 9C LNhNW World' 
YLITWGL BLce E6LVBLSc6NB pC how 
in tho huIILST World's Imonoe.
CHH AP EHLH . ? 
*RIVC Wo Ru WT gCz Af? wRR.O
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue
AT 1-8320 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTAJ.S
NOSE THROAT.
1
and Accessory Organs not Adversely 
Affected by Smoking Chesterfields
FIRST SUCH REPORT EVER PUBLISHED 
ABOUT ANY CIGARETTE
7
A responsible consulting organization has
reported the results of a continuing study by a 
competent medical specialist and his staff on the 
effects of smoking Chesterfield cigarettes.
A group Of people from various walks of life 
was organized to smoke only Chesterfields. For six 
months this group of men and women smoked their 
normal amount of Chesterfields  10 to 40 a day. 
45% of the group have smoked Chesterfields con
tinually from one to thirty years for an average of 
10 years each.
At the beginning and at the end of the sixmonths period each smoker was given a thorough
examination, including X-ray pictures, by the 
medical specialist and his assistants. The exam
ination covered the sinuses as well as the nose, 
ears and throat.
The medical specialist, after a thorough exam
ination of every member of the group, stated: 
It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and 
accessory organs of all participating subjects ex
amined by me were not adversely affected in the 
six-months period by smoking the cigarettes 
provided.
Copyright 1952. UccETT * Myers Tobacco Six
