Volume 90, Issue GCarnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 190612 February 1996
Jason Sfegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
The Three Rivers Juggling Festival took center ring last Saturday.
THE TARTAN
Send in the clowns
Inside
Calendar.........................................................L14
Classified.......................................................12
Comics...............................................................L5
Diversions.........................................................L9
Forum..................................................................4
Living..............................................................LI
Sports................................................................14
Peace process threatened by London bombing
LONDON Feb. 9 (AP)  Just 
an hour after the Irish RepubliCan Army reportedly ended its 1 
1/2-year-old truce, a bomb ex
ploded today in an underground 
Parking lot in east London, dam
aging office buildings and wound
ing at least 34 people.
Scotland Yardpolice headquar
ters said the explosion went off 
son after 7pm (2 pm EST) critiCally injuring two people, seriUsly injuring two more, and 
lightly injuring at least 30. No 
deaths were reported. Earlier, 
Police had estimated that as many 
as 100 people were hurt.
Police said the explosion oc
curred in an underground parking 
ot of a six-story office building in 
east Londons Docklands, an area 
upscale, office complexes about 
Ur miles east of central London. 
The building partially collaPsed. Surrounding buildings 
f/ere damaged, and Britains tallest building  the 52-story Ca
nary Wharf Tower a quarter-mile 
away  was evacuated.
It was the first bombing in the 
capital since the IRA suspended 
its 24-year-old violent campaign 
against British rule in Northern 
Ireland on September 1, 1994. 
Nearly 3,200 people died in the 
violence.
Commander John Grieve of 
Scotland Yards anti-terrorist 
unit said that about an hour be
fore the bomb, there was a series 
of warnings coded in a recognized 
pattern.
Grieve did not elaborate, but it 
was often IRA practice to use 
codewords when warning of at
tacks. He said police were still 
clearing the area when the explo
sion occurred.
Steve Holmes, 41, said the blast 
destroyed a building next to his 
pub.
If it hadnt been there we could 
all have been killed, Wilson told 
The Associated Press. When the
bomb went off it was a deafening 
noise. All the windows came in 
and the ceiling fell down. Every
one just flung themselves on to 
the floor.
In Dublin, the Irish Republics 
RTE television and radio net
work said the statement purport
edly from the IRA was received 
at its main studio from a recog
nized caller and carried a known 
IRA codeword.
It is with great reluctance that 
the leadership announces that 
the complete cessation of mili
tary operations will end at 6 pm, 
or 1 pm EST, the statement said.
The statement blamed Prime 
Minister John Major for the 
breakdown of the peace process 
in Northern Ireland.
In London, Major called on the 
IRA and its political ally, Sinn 
Fein, to condemn those respon
sible for the explosion, and said it 
would be a tragedy if hopes for 
lasting peace were dashed. This
atrocity confirms again the ur
gent need to remove illegal arms 
from the equation, Major said.
Irish Prime Minister John 
Bruton said this resumption of 
violence by whomsoever orga
nized it is entirely unjustified. I 
condemn it without reservation.
The peace process has stalled 
over demands by Britain and 
Protestant parties in Northern 
Ireland that the IRA, based in 
the Catholic community, start 
handing over its weapons before 
all-party negotiations can start.
Sinn Fein, the IRAs political 
ally, said it knew nothing about 
the IRA announcement and was 
investigating.
The IRA last attacked Britain 
in March 1994, six months be
fore its cease-fire. The outlawed 
group launched a dozen small 
rockets at Heathrow Airport west 
of London, causing massive dis
ruption to international air traf
fic but no significant damage.
CMU turns down
PAT U-Zone deal
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
At this point it is dead, said 
Neal Binstock, the assistant vice 
president of business, when de
scribing negotiations to allow 
CMU students to ride the PAT 
(Port Authority of Allegheny 
County) U-Zone routes for free.
The U-Zone includes two bus 
routes, the 64U and the 74U, 
that give Pitt students free rides 
to and from Shadyside and Squir
rel Hill. CMU has been consider
ing joining the U-Zone since last 
spring. However, PAT wanted to 
charge the University more than 
it was willing to pay. The deal 
that they want to give us is not a 
deal, said Chief James LaPaglia, 
security director.
Binstock said, The primary 
area that we couldnt reach agree
ment on is the cost per ride .... 
They wanted a dollar per ride, 
and our estimates of this exceed 
$500,000 per year. It currently 
costs $1.25 for a ride on the UZone buses without a Pitt ID, and 
a monthly pass is $40.00.
PAT created the U-Zone bus
routes after it stopped Pitts 
shuttles because they infringed 
on PATs routes. In a previous 
article in The Tartan [PAT: UZone success incredible, 10/2/ 
95] PAT spokesperson Staci 
Vemick said, We [PAT] have the 
authority to grant permission for 
private contractual shuttle ser
vice. There is little chance of 
CMU shuttle routes being can
celed by PAT since they dont 
compete with PATs routes. The 
CMU shuttles run north-south, 
while PATs buses run east-west 
along Fifth and Forbes.
Last school year, CMU and 
Pitt students could ride shuttles 
from either school for free. The 
end of the Pitt shuttles meant 
the end of free rides for CMU 
students livingin Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill.
Students can still get free rides 
home from the escort service at 
night. Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy said, As long 
as we have the escort service 
thats providing forthe safety of 
students traveling home, Im 
comfortable.
Please see U-ROUTE, page 3
Conference tackles police brutality
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Contributing Editor
Narves Gammage, mother of 
Jonny Gammage, wants justice 
for her son and her family. Mem
bers of the Gammage family, in 
attendance at the Saturday con
ference hosted by CMU, spoke 
out on the Jonny Gammage case 
and police brutality.
Jonny Gammage was pulled 
over for speeding by five Pitts
burgh police officers in 
Brentwood last October. The 
police officers suffocated him to 
death, though they have testi
fied that they were acting in 
self-defense.
A coroners inquest into the 
circumstances surrounding 
Gammages death was subse
quently conducted, and the 
members of the jury recom
mended that all five officers be 
charged with criminal homicide. 
The DA overturned the inquests 
recommendation, dropped all 
firstand second-degree mur
der charges, and decided that 
only three of the five police offic
ers involved in the incident 
would be charged.
Gammage said that her faith 
in God and her family have
helped her endure the pain of her 
sons death and the circumstances 
surrounding it.
Its been a hard road, and a 
terrible road and a sad road and 
an angry road that I went 
through. I mean, it turned my 
life around completely. I never 
had a hurt that hurt so deeply as 
something that happened that 
night.... Theres not a minute of 
the day or night that I dont think 
about him .... Its just tragic to 
think that someone could take 
someones life for a mere traffic 
stop, she said.
She added, I only can say if 
you experience it [the brutal death 
of a child] ... you would under
stand. I know a lot of people have 
reached out, and Ive felt their 
love and concern. But until you 
go through it you just dont know 
what pain it is. And then for them 
[the police] to try to get out of it, 
or act as if theyre above the law 
I dont understand it.
Gammage said that she could 
come closer to understanding 
the brutality of her sons death 
if he had robbed a bank or kid
napped someone, but that her 
son was a businessman who be
lieved in peace. She expressed 
Please see GAMMAGE, page 3
The cousin of Maneia Stoney Bey, who was a victim of police brutality, 
was one of many speakers at Saturdays conference in Porter Hall.
Students register to 
vote by the hundreds
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Volunteers at the voter registration 
tables in Baker Hall were swamped 
with anxious students last week. 
These tables, offering free speech and 
democracy for all, were packed with 
CMU students interested in politics 
and ready to assume a role in their 
college community.
During the three-day voter registra
tion drive, sponsored by Project Vote 
18 and Everybody, volunteers from 
various campus organizations coordi
nated by Gina Schuyler, student body 
president, signed up students for all 
party affiliations  Democrats, Re
publicans, or Independents. No one 
was campaigning and no one was push
ing; students came on their own and 
they came by the hundreds.
According to Chris Perry, founder 
and director of Project Vote 18 and 
Everybody, CMUs registration turn
out was fantastic. We had well over 
600 registrations in three days and 
with very limited publicity and not a
big push, this is really great. Since 
CMUs registration drive Ive been 
contacted by Pitt, Point Park, and 
Duquesne to help them organize drives 
on their respective campuses.
This project has been going for about 
a year and a half now. It started because 
when I was a legislative aide for Bill 
Robinson in the 19th district, I noticed 
that recent voter turnouts had been 
very dismal. According to the 1990 cen
sus, there were 108,000 people who 
werent registered to vote. Ive been con
ducting registration drives throughout 
Allegheny County to try and increase 
the voter turnout on election day. This 
was the first college drive that we had 
done and Id definitely consider it a 
success, said Mr. Perry.
When asked if she thought the drive 
was a success, Schuyler said, A suc
cess? [The drive was] most definitely [a 
success.] I think that the biggest thing 
was the fact that we didnt have to 
solicit people to register. They came to 
us. Most of those that just stopped by 
the table didnt realize that you were 
Please see VOTING, page 3
ForumLivingNews
Jason Sf egsadrs/drsST
t nPP edhP E
iRvuPg Re
t nPP edhPn lF k lc
yPoPvS. Usoo SeeSnPt nPP edhP O
Volume9 0,Iu ,ss9 GCm,ar,nsrCge oiuM9
Jaso Ulimig/ idlldll nSaaaSa oidii
The walls of Pipers cafeteria are now packed with convenience-store type items.
By GEL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
During the past few weeks, there has 
been a noticeable change at the Pipers 
cafeteria in Morewood. Within that 
short period, dozens of shelves at the 
Morewood cafeteria have been stocked 
with convenience-store-type items.
After last semesters contract break 
with Marriott food services, CMU was
left to run Dining Services on its own. 
According to Annette Allison, director 
of contract services, When Mariott 
left, this opened up a whole new aspect 
and ... we entered into an agreement 
with Eat N Park. We are also using the 
leverage-buying contracts from Eat N 
Park to hopefully reduce our buy price. 
However, Neal Binstock, Assistant 
Vice President for Business Services, 
noted that the new additions were not
actually linked to the break with 
Marriott. The Marriott episode did 
not play a role in these changes. Both 
events are completely unrelated, he 
said.
Allison said that the changes were 
implemented to increase student sat
isfaction and to address the present 
deficit. But it was not by cutting, it 
was by increasing capture rate and 
generating additional sales by being 
responsive and understanding of the 
types of products [and] foods that our 
students would like.
While not considering it a policy 
shift, Allison remarked, There is 
nothing that I want to do to disparage 
Mariott at all.... I would say that we 
put more CMU value into what we do 
by self-operating. It just gave us a 
chance to review philosophy. We un
derstand our students. We understand 
its a competitive campus .... We un
derstand that students want a certain 
level of quality.
Binstock concurred, noting that the 
new changes did not mark a shift in 
direction for CMU and its approach to 
Please see PIPERS, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
  
UuvutgMMynot,iogn9 aovv mugvyiognoSu9 dMumot,Groups protest outlawing of indecent material on internet
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 8 (AP)
 The governments ban on 
sending indecent and sexu
ally explicit material to minors 
over computer networks was 
challenged in court the moment 
President Clinton signed it into 
law Thursday.
The Justice Department 
pledged not to initiate prosecu
tions for a week, and a federal 
judge declined to temporarily 
block the Decency Act, giving 
prosecutors until Wednesday to 
submit written legal argu
ments.
The American Civil Liberties 
Union and 19 other groups said 
the law violates privacy rights 
and strangles free speech by au
thorizing the government to pros
ecute people even for the private 
messages they send about AIDS, 
abortion, politics and science  
any subject involving sex.
What Congress has done is to 
criminalize indecent speech sent 
by the Internet, Stefan Presser, 
legal director of the American 
Civil Liberties Union of Pennsyl
vania, said outside court. Aston
ishingly they havent bothered to 
define what indecent speech is. 
Actually, the law defines in
decency as any comment, re
quest, suggestion, proposal, 
image, or other communication 
that, in context, depicts or de
scribes, in terms patently of
fensive as measured by contem
porary community standards, 
sexual, or excretory activities 
or organs.
Thanks to a last-minute addi
tion by Rep. Henry Hyde, an 
Illinios Republican, it also ex
tends a rarely enforced, 123-yearold law into cyberspace, making 
it a violation of obscenity laws to 
use computers to provide infor
mation about how to obtain an 
abortion.
The Hyde amendment 
prompted a separate effort in 
New York to block the law by 
the National Abortion and Re
productive Rights Action 
League and other groups. They 
dropped their request for a re
straining order after failing to 
prove anyone faced impending 
harm, but vowed to press on
with their lawsuit.
Supporters say the law, which 
carries fines up to $250,000 and 
jail terms of up to five years, 
will protect children from por
nography and, contrary to as
sertions made by the ACLU, will 
not ban general information
ages are available on a computer 
by ... a click of a mouse, said 
Coppolino.
Coppolino also told U.S. Dis
trict Judge Ronald L. 
Buckwalter that the Justice 
Department will stand by its 
long standing policy that aborWere obligated to administer the 
law; but we said from the start this 
particular provision will stand or fall 
in court.
 Vice President Al Gore
about abortion and AIDS pre
vention.
U.S. Attorney Anthony J. 
Coppolino, who argued against 
the restraining order, said restric
tions are necessary because com
puters have become increasingly 
pervasive and bring pornography 
right into peoples homes.
Its not an exaggeration to say 
that many of these indecent im
tion-related speech prohibitions 
are unconstitutional and will 
not be enforced.
The Clinton Administration 
has also repeatedly raised con
cerns about the constitutionality 
of the computer porn provisions; 
it wasnt immediately clear how 
vigorously it would fight to up
hold them.
Vice President Al Gore dodged
the question Thursday when 
asked by The Associated Press in 
Washington which side the Jus
tice Department would support.
Were obligated to administer 
the law, but we said from the 
start this particular provision will 
stand or fall in court, Gore re
sponded.
Coppolino said the contested pro
visions will not be enforced until 
at least Wednesday, but gave no 
assurances that people who use 
the Internet over the next few days 
would not be prosecuted in the 
future for indecency.
That prompted a warning 
from Presser: The world of com
puter users needs to understand 
that the judge has not ruled, 
and for the next seven days you 
will use the Net at your own 
risk.
The law prohibits all socially 
useful, nonpornographic speech 
that happens to be about sex, 
added Christopher Hansen, the 
national ACLU senior staff 
counsel.
He noted parents already can 
limit their childrens access to
adult material by using safe, 
guards on computer services or 
_ by buying inexpensive software 
that limits the Internet sites chil
dren may reach.
Senator Jim Exon, a Democrat 
from Nebraska, who sponsored 
the wide-ranging Telecommunications Reform Act of 1996, ex
pressed confidence in the anti, 
porn provisions.
The ACLU continues to raise 
red herrings that have nothing 
to do with our proposal, he said. 
The legislation will not bail 
works of art or medical warn
ings because they would not be 
in context, patently offensive1 
under the Supreme Courts in
decency standard used in our 
legislation.
The ACLU-led coalition ar
gued that on-line speech is akin 
to print media and private com
munication, which enjoy broad 
protection under the First 
Amendment, rather than tele
vision and radio, which are gov
erned by indecency provisions 
enforced by the Federal Com
munications Commission.
Bill creates more competitive market
NEW YORK, Feb. 8 (AP)  Getting 
through dinner without a call from a 
phone or cable company could get tougher 
now that the telecommunications over
haul is law.
There are plenty more calls ahead, 
along with mail offers, broadcast and 
print ads as local phone, long-distance 
and cable companies muscle into each 
others business.
Even though you wont be able to take 
phone calls on your TV set for years, the 
advertising blitz has begun. Other cam
paigns begin Friday.
It is a nuisance at times, said David 
Rua, an insurance agent in Pittsburg, 
Kansas, who gets calls from long-dis
tance companies that want his business. 
But thats free American enterprise. If 
you try to cut that down, thats saying 
they cant compete.
The driving purpose for the biggest 
communications legislation since 1934 
is competition. Few companies wasted 
time adapting to it Thursday.
Less than an hour after President 
Clinton signed the bill, the largest local 
telephone company, GTE Corp., an
nounced it had a contract with WorldCom 
Inc., the fourth-largest long distance 
company, to resell long distance service 
under the GTE name.
A few minutes later, AT&T Corp. chair
man Robert Allen stood before reporters 
in Washington and said the largest long
distance company would offer local phone 
service by late summer.
The goal for all is to become a one-stop 
provider of whatever communication 
service a customer seeks. The industry 
buzzword is bundling, or offering dis
counts for taking more than one service.
Theres certainly going to be a rise in 
the level of the noise thats out there, 
said Cliff Eason, chief executive officer 
of SBC Communications, the telecom 
arm of SBC Corp., the regional Bell 
carrier in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, 
Oklahoma, and Texas.
But I think customers will have an 
attentive ear to a company that comes at 
them and says Heres the deal. Its 
simple. Its reliable. Its hassle-free, 
Eason said.
Investors will have to sort through a 
frenzy of deal-making over the next few 
weeks. Communications companies will 
be trying to fill gaps in their service 
offerings with alliances or acquisitions.
Wall Street analysts say small long
distance companies and so-called com
petitive access providers, which let busi
nesses bypass local carriers when con
necting to long-distance, are in great 
positions to make deals or even be ac
quired.
For consumers, many of the new 
choices will take months to appear, per
haps several years in small towns and 
rural areas. But the big marketing push
will be felt everywhere and, in some 
places, has already started.
For instance, Nynex Corp. since last 
weekend has run TV spots with World 
War II-vintage planes that declare the 
telephone wars are heatingup. It points 
out the companys special rates, now 
open to competition, between New York 
City and suburbs on Long Island and 
Westchester County. The announcer 
urges viewers to stick with the company 
that brings peace of mind.
SBC Communications will call itself a 
long-distance company in ads that begin 
Friday, The new law allows SBC and 
others to offer long-distance service in 
their cellular operations.
But regional Bell carriers like SBC, 
formed in the 1984 breakup of the Bell 
System, have to meet a number of re
quirements that demonstrate adequate 
competition before they can offer long
distance with local service on their wired 
lines. GTE and other local phone carri
ers can bundle the services right away.
Several large companies, such as 
Ameritech, will run ads Friday that tout 
a corporate image. Others, such as U S 
West and Tele-Communications Inc., 
plan no special advertising.
Were going to primarily keep our ad 
dollars focused on saving customers 
money, said John D onaghue, s enior vice 
president of marketing and advertising 
at MCI Communications Corp.
Activists oppose new laws
NEW YORK Feb. 9 (AP)  Abortion-rights activists have failed to block 
provisions in the new federal telecom
munications law that they say would 
make it a crime to discuss abortion 
over the Internet.
Attorneys for Planned Parenthood 
of New York City and other advocacy 
groups dropped a request to stall the 
law Thursday after a federal judge 
concluded they had provided no evi
dence that it would harm anyone.
At issue are amendments that ex
tend the Comstock Act  an 1873 law 
that prohibits distribution of informa
tion about abortion  to computer 
services.
The act was revised in 1971 to re
move language concerning contracep
tives, but other restrictions remain on 
the books.
At a hearing before U.S. District 
Court Chief Judge Charles P. Sifton, 
U.S. Attorney Zachary W. Carter said 
the law had never been enforced and 
there was no threat anyone will be 
prosecuted.
He said the Justice Department con
sidered the acts references to restrict
ing abortion information as unconsti
tutional and that our policy bridges 
the old law and the new law.
His office is considering filing a mo
tion to dismiss the suit.
Simon Heller, an attorney for the 
abortion-rights groups, said he was 
concerned the Justice Departments 
position might change under a differ
ent administration.
That could make criminals out of 
people using computer networks to 
provide or receive abortion informa
tion, he said.
Planned Parenthood, for example, 
distributes abortion information on 
the Internet.
He predicted the law would create a 
new chill on the First Amendment.
We want to go forward and get this 
declared unconstitutional, Heller . 
said outside the courtroom.
Among the plaintiffs in the suit are 
Alexander Sanger, president of 
Planned Parenthood of New York 
City; the National Abortion and Re
productive Rights Action League; and 
the Feminist Majority Foundation.
They said they would continue to 
push a suit to overturn the disputed 
section of the law, saying it unfairly 
restricts free speech.
The law, signed by President 
Clinton on Thursday, is designed to 
revolutionize the way Americans get 
telephone, computer and television 
services.
A hearing on the suit could take 
place in late March.
Four-Day ]
Monday
Forecast
Brisk with a 30 
percent chance of 
snow. High around 
20. Snow overnight.
fuesday 1 Mostly cloudy and 
/-Mm cold with a 30 
| K percent chance of 
snow. High In the 
yj_j> lower 20s.
Wednesday
Chance of snow 
showers. High in the 
lower 30s. Low 
around 10.
Thursday
Chance of snow. 
High In the 30s. Low 
in the teens.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, February 12, 
1946: A Tartan editorial ex
pressed concern over the short
age of housing at CMU because of 
World War II veterans. However, 
the shortage wasnt limited only 
to this campus but was nation 
wide.
The freshmen enrolling this 
semester simply can find no 
place to stay in the smoky city. 
Some students were reported 
staying at the downtown YMCA 
while others found shelter in 
the homes of kind Squirrel Hill 
residents.
The administration planned to 
allieviate the problem by open
ing Mill Hall, one of the small 
dorms for single men.
25 YEARS AGO, February 11, 
1971: Bell-Telephone company 
finally devised a way to counter
act an illegal device known as 
Agnew.
Students who owned this de
vice could, have a caller directdial him from anywhere in the 
country and not suffer the ensu
ing costs. Beli-Telephone was 
stunned at the simplicity of the 
device.
Several C-MU students were 
arrested for possession of the 
device and were charged for the 
undetected phone calls they 
received.
Bell-Telephone spent $2000 to 
uncover the Agnew users. As 
part of the all-out-get-them pro
gram, the phone company 
tracked Agnew users for a 
month and planned on sending 
delayed phone bills to the cul
prits.
10 YEARS AGO, February 11, 
1986: Democratic Senator Gary 
Hart of Colorado paid a publi
cized visit to CMU to discuss the 
future of Americas economy and 
Americas families.
Hart offered his condolences to
students and faculty on the death 
of alumni Judith Resnik.
In his speech, Hart addressed 
the topic of economic stagnation 
and the unfortunate fact that 
students take the American 
dream as a reality but the chang
ing economy has caused that 
dream to be more and more out of 
reach for todays youth.
To solve this economic slum
ber, Hart suggested a new ap
proach in order to restore growth 
and provide for a more produc
tive and competitive economy in 
the United States dealings at 
home and abroad.
He concluded by stating that, 
America requires a government 
willing to exercise bold leader
ship.
FIVE YEARS AGO, February
11 1991: Plans for CMUs first 
International Fall Festival were 
announced. This festival was 
brought about because of the need 
to increase international aware? 
ness and contacts on campus as 
well as make the fall semester 
more pleasant. The region slated 
for recognition was Asia, with 
activities including films, dancj 
ing, art displays, food booths; 
debates, discussions and an Asian 
costume dance. There was 
mention of competitions, with the 
possibility of airline tickets to tin 
region in focus as a major prize.
Compiled by 
MATTHEW SOLITRO & 
BECKY A. COWSEB
Thelartm
The Tartan celebrates its 90th anniversary this year. Here's the papers 1981fla=

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 19963
0gnIumuntu Igty9u9 gn N,MM,Cu t,9u
GAMMAGE, from page 1
her belief in the hypocrisy of 
the Pittsburgh Police Depart
ment.
Julio Rosenblatt, a member 
of the Campus Coalition for 
Peace and Justice, asked the 
audience to take the message 
of the Jonny Gammage case 
and apply it to their daily lives.
What we are about here is 
not just talking about the prob
lem and then going home and 
thinking weve done something. 
This is a conference ... [where] 
were trying to organize activi
ties to make sure that justice is 
seen in the face of Jonny 
Gammage, andjustice will pre
vail in all these cases and this 
will not continue.
Rosenblatt read exerpts from
1995 FOCUS interview with 
Richard Lyons, a copier service 
specialist at CMU and foreman 
of the six-person jury at the 
Gammage coroners inquest. The 
interview featured testimony 
from the five Pittsburgh police 
officers at the inquest. The testi
mony revealed graphically vio
lent acts, such as beating and 
clubbing, were inflicted on 
Gammage the night he died.
Sala Udin, city council mem
ber also spoke at the conference, 
and praised the Gammage 
familys bravery and tenacity in 
enduring the coronersinquest. 
He also challenged the audience 
to recognize the larger context 
in which Gammages death oc
curred.
Those of you who are activ
ists have to broaden your view 
of whats going on, and broaden 
your activism to see that what 
were dealing with is not... a 
few bad apples. What were
dealing with is an intrinsic con
tention between the police and 
the people. Thats what gives 
rise to the violence.
Udin added, I ... think its 
important to see the connection 
between the rise in police vio
lence ... and the rise in rightwing, political, economic, and 
social policy in this country. He 
told the audience they would 
have to fight to ensure that jus
tice gets back on the agenda, 
and called for federal courts to 
getinvolvedin Gammages case.
The afternoons final speaker 
was Khalid Raheem, an orga
nizer of the Million Man March 
and member of the Gang Peace 
Council of Western PA. Raheem 
urged citizens to form a civilian 
review board, so that the 
Gammage case and others like 
it will not occur repeatedly.
He also suggested the creation 
of a publicly accessible database 
on individual police officers 
records.
Raheem stressed unity and 
coalition in the community. 
He said that neighborhoods 
need to establish self-defense 
programs that enable civil
ians to defend themselves.
The conference also included 
workshops on issues like strate
gies for combating police brutal
ity, political repression and the 
police, and racism and police 
brutality. The keynote speaker, 
Lorenzo Konboa Ervin, spoke 
later that evening. Ervin is an 
activist who organized protests 
in response to the murder of 
Jerry Jackson in Atlanta, Ga.
A candlelight vigil in memory 
of Jonny Gammage is sched
uled for February 13 at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh.
Professor angered by cheating policy
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Managing Editor
James Hoburg would like to tell you about 
the ugly truth. Specifically the ugly truth 
about the process the University adminis
tration uses to deal with academic cheating, 
and the inability of the process to do any
thing real about the cheating on campus.
A professor in the ECE department, 
Hoburg spoke at a seminar last Friday,
which he titled Cheating at CMU: A ____
Case Study. During the seminar he 
used a case of cheating that he turned 
over to the Office of Student Affairs as 
an example of a larger problem within 
the Administration. In a flyer promot
ing the seminar he stated, my goal is 
to make administrators uncomfortable 
by putting on display the ugly truth.
While teaching a course in the spring 
of 1994, Hoburg said he encountered a stu
dent who had altered a test after grading and 
then attempted to have the grade on the test 
changed. The TA who graded the test was 
suspicious and brought it to Hoburg.
Examining the test, they found signs the 
student had altered it.
Hoburg showed a transparency of the blue 
book, and pointed out that there was text 
that appeared after the TAs last mark. 
Hoburg then pointed out that the grader 
always put a check or x on blocks of text to 
indicate whether they were correct, and it 
was inconsistent with the TAs grading style.
Hoburg and the TA then examined the 
chart that accompanied the exam, and be
lieved that it had also been altered. The 
grading marks indicated that the student
had indicated the incorrect path on the chart, 
but the chart now was correct.
Next, Hoburg asked an MSE professor to look 
at the exam. The MSE professor determined 
that the graphite on the chart was on top of the 
red ink. With this as evidence, Hoburg then 
contacted the student for a meeting.
At the meeting, the student denied that he 
had changed the test. Hoburg believed that the 
instance of cheating was serious, so he con
sulted the guideline from the Faculty Handbook
If there had been money in
volved, the University would 
have stepped in immediately.  
 Professor James Hoburg
and notified the Office of Student Affairs.
How come I ever sent this to the University? 
Why didnt I just fail the student? Well, Im this 
weird guy who plays by the rules, Hoburg said.
The disciplinary committee decided that 
the student was guilty, but that Hoburg was 
being too harsh. The committee reduced the 
students final grade from a C to a D. Hoburg 
was unhappy with the decision but thought 
that was the end of the case.
In the spring of 1995, the student, who had 
graduated, returned to appeal the decision. A 
second committee reversed the decision of the 
prior committee. In a memo from the Office of 
Student Affairs, the board recommended that 
the students grade be changed back to a C.
While four of the five members (of the 
Academic Review Board) feel it is reasonable
to conclude that the graphite is over the ink 
on P3, we do find the evidence regarding the 
order of the deposit on the tick mark to be 
sufficient for a determination of guilt. We 
find that that there are motivations other 
than cheating for placing the graphite on 
after the red ink, reads the Student Affairs 
memo quoting the Boards decision.
Just give me a few [reasons] even one, 
said Hoburg, referring to the memo. What 
motivation could there be other than cheat_ ing, for marking something where you 
were supposed to mark it, after the grader 
has shown you where to mark it?
After the second decision, Hoburg sent 
f out memos to faculty and administrators 
and received support from the faculty but 
no response from the administration.
If there had been money involved, the 
B University would have stepped in immedi
ately, and said this is intolerable. We cant 
have this incompetence, we are going to fix 
this. But it didnt involve money, he said.
Hoburg did have a suggestion on how to 
change the way cheating is disciplined at 
CMU. You need to get the disciplinary 
process out of the hands of the office of the 
Dean of Student Affairs. Hes got a con
flict of interest. He is the good guy that 
students go to when they are in trouble, 
and the judge in these disciplinary cases, 
said Hoburg.
As an alternative, Hoburg suggested that 
ad-hoc committees, such as the ones used to 
investigate faculty, be formed for cheating 
cases. Hoburg believes this system would not 
provide a strong deterrent for those tempted 
to cheat, but it would be a more effective 
process than the current policy.
Voter registration draws hundreds of students
VOTING, from page 1
eligible to vote in Pennsylvania 
after living here for 30 days. 
One thing that Id like to do, 
Schuyler said, is to find stu
dents who are interested in 
state and national politics and 
might be able to better inform 
students than I can. I receive 
all this information, and I dont 
really have a good outlet to send
it to. A party of interested stu
dents, however, might be able 
to set up a distribution list for 
anyone who wants to be in
volved.
Another thing that Im trying 
to arrange is to bring the candi
dates for the local political races 
here to campus to speak on their 
views and where they stand on 
the issues. We might even be
able to arrange a debate between 
them, Schuyler said.
Perry said of the event, I just 
wanted to thank everyone for 
their involvement and partici
pation. You can sponsor a threeday drive, but without volun
teers, involvement, and partici
pation, it doesnt really do you 
any good. I think that the stu
dents did a great job. Everyone
was very receptive and got ac
tively involved.
The registration drive brought 
out 625 students: 247 Democrats, 
198 Independents, 126 Republi
cans, and 54 in the Other cat
egory. Anyone interested in be
coming actively involved in any 
facet of politics or government on 
campus should contact Gina 
Schuyler at gs3n.
Convenience store items offered in Morewood
PIPER'S, from page 1
providing dining services. These changes were 
made to provide additional opportunities for 
students.
Another reason for the changes was to in
crease variety and quality, two items that 
were repeatedly brought up by the SDC food 
services committee last semester. The changes 
implemented were based on the recommen
dations developed by the committee.
As Allison put it, things were basically the 
same and students were extremely unhappy 
with the lack of choice .... Students were 
asking for different kinds of things... and we 
had always had this space. So the space was 
jput to new use.
At Pipers, one can find everything from 
chips and beverages to medicine and greeting 
cards. Some of the products are similar to 
those being sold at Entropy and MMP.
However, Allison did not see potential 
competition as an issue. We added a few 
other items, but it was really meant to be a 
grab-and-go. It was not meant at all, and we 
dont think its going to at all affect En
tropy. If anything, I think students were 
going off campus to get these, and we feel 
its just increased our capture rate within 
the CMU community. It was never designed, 
or meant in any way, to compete with En
tropy because we have much more of a grabiand-go orientation than we do [conve
nience].
By following this strategy, Dining Services 
hopes to get students to buy more of these 
grab-and-go products on campus rather than 
off campus.
Binstock added that while the true purchasing capacity of students is not infinite, 
I personally believe these types of situa
tions benefit all, by enabling students to get 
what they need in various campus locations 
as opposed to going off campus.
Allison believes that by focusing on this 
effort, and by improving overall quality, 
CMU Dining Services can capture more 
disposable income and by doing that, we 
wall address the deficit or possibly break 
even this year and make sure that we are 
okay.
In the fiscal year ending June 1995,
impact data will be assessed, after which 
Dining Services will make adjustments 
as necessary, Binstock said.
Student reaction to the changes ap
pears positive. According to Adrian 
Drury, a sophomore ECE major, I think 
the general student body probably likes 
it because Ive seen a number of students 
taking advantage of the things they sell i 
there, and Dining Services seems to be 
having to restock their shelves pretty 
often.
Sophomore mechanical engineering maCMU Dining Services ran a deficit of jor Kurt Faulhaber said, I think its a
$800,000.
Through the new CMU-run approach, 
administrators at Dining Services really 
feel that if we have satisfied students, the 
deficit will take care of itself and thats 
really the theory that everything weve done 
is predicated on, Allison said.
As to changes in the future, it is too early 
to tell, given the short duration of the new 
additions to the food operations.
However, the changes are not over. Its 
ongoing. Were not finished. We are going to
keep changing_________________
things, refining 
things, getting ail of 
the glitches out of the 
operations.... We are 
constantly working 
to make things as 
good as possible, 
said Allison. Within 
the next few weeks, 
customer satisfac
tion and financial
really cool idea for freshman because they 
can use their spare blocks at the end of the 
v/eek more efficiently.
Drury is not too concerned with the 
impact on pre-existing campus retail 
stores. She said, I dont think it will 
make too much of a difference, partly 
because Morewood was originally a caf
eteria ... [students] wont just go there 
for a special trip to buy the prepackaged 
food as they would to a place like En
tropy or MMP.
CMU will not join U-Zone
U-ROUTE, from page 1
However, students living in ar
eas that arent covered by the 
CMU shuttle cant get free rides 
to campus. This is especially in
convenient because Pittsburghs 
extreme weather often makes 
walking or biking to school im
possible.
Sophomore mechanical engi
neering major John Buford, an 
off-campus resident, said, I al
ways love walking to school on 
frigid mornings through six feet 
of snow.
The number of Pitt students who 
ride the U-Zone is five to six times 
the number projected at the time 
the contract was settled. Because 
of this, PAT will likely raise the 
current price of $4000 a week for 
Pitt when the contract is renegoti
ated this April. Pitts deal expires 
in April and I would be very sur
prised if the Port Authority doesnt 
ask for a dollar per ride from Pitt
as well, LaPaglia said.
Were not closing any options 
that are open to us right now. We 
certainly know that its something 
of interest to our students. Were 
working as hard as we can to find 
a cost-efficient solution that ev
eryone can live with, he said.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
wplumountusc 
Imounsv1 9umotu6
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
0,vv 2FbrPhLL
Crime and Incident Report
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks article San Francisco Gothic Rockers mes
merize local club it was stated that Circus Apocalypse is 
touring with Apocalypse Theatre. However, Apocalypse The
atre is touring with Caravan 96-99.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. 
Kraemer at 268-2111.
2/5 FLOOD, 5:29 am. After 
tails from two students, Campus 
Police responded to West Wing 
to investigate an alleged flood. 
The three responding officers 
found the leak, which was caused 
'by a broken heater coil. The wa
ter was turned off and a mainte
nance report was filed.
2/9 DRUG USAGE, 12:38 am. 
T"o officers passing through 
Hamerschlag House happened to 
smell marijuana emanating from 
a room. They knocked on the door, 
were told to come in. The 
fficersfound three CMU students.
officers asked the students if 
'ey had any marijuana. One of 
students said yeah, and gave 
them some. The student was is
sued a citation.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report un
der the following guidelines:
 Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editorin-Chief, the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter who types the report.
All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of a 
complete description.
Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICKRIKOSKI
Positions Available for students interested in 
providing a summer of recreation for special needs 
children and adults. Beacon Lodge Camp located in 
Central Pennsylvania, is seeking camp counselors 
for summer camping program beginning May 28 
and ending August 14. In addition there is a need 
for WSI; Lifeguards, Program Director, Unit 
Director, Nurses; and the following instructors: 
Canoeing, Kayaking, Archery, Riflery, Games, Arts 
& Crafts, Music/Drama, Nature. The summer offers 
a well-rounded program of activities from bowling 
to overnight camp outs, and canoe trips down the 
Juniata River. To request an application and/or 
additional information, write to:
PA LIONS BEACON LODGE CAMP 
114 SR103 SOUTH 
MOUNT UNION, PA 17066-9601 
PHONE 814-542-2511 
FAX 814-542-7437
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
SEDONA Systems Corporation, a well capitalized 
start-up company located in Scottsdale, AZ, has 
developed an internet based document 
communications system which will be marketed by 
several major telecommunications and computer 
companies. Business partners now include IBM, 
MCI and Fujitsu, with initial product introductions 
scheduled for this summer. We need to rapidly 
expand our engineering staff and currently have 
openings for qualified software engineers. 
Requirements include a B.S. in Computer Science 
with experience in large scale software integration 
for distributed systems. Internet standards experi
ence with a working knowledge of Windows or 
Macintosh operating systems. Compensation in
cludes competetive saleries, founder stock options, 
full relocation reimbursement and flexible working 
hours. Qualified individuals should FAX their 
resumes to SEDONA Systems Corporation at 
602-970-3745. All responses will be kept strictly 
confidential.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University12 February 1996
UuvutgM aovv Aovv I,ov ig 
9gvu 9gtoui1e9 lmgavuM9
| The recently passed Telecom; munications Reform Act is not 
! just a travesty, it is a calamity. It 
; is a misimplementation of au! thority;.it flies in the face of the 
| principles of freedom and 
; progress upon which this nation 
! was conceived.
; The bill is essentially an up! dating of the Communications 
| Act of 1934. It allows cable TV 
I companies to compete directly 
| with local and long-distance tele; phone companies in addition to 
! deregulating cable rates. But 
| cable isnt the only section of the 
media that is directly affected.
: Under the new legislation, all 
; media companies will be able to 
! diversify their operations more 
; easily. AT&T and the regional 
I Bell companies will be able to 
; battle each other for both local 
! and long-distance services where 
; previously their markets had 
1 been clearly delineated, 
j The original aim of the bill is 
1 certainly laudable. The govern| ment feels that the 1934 act has 
; to catch up with the media explo! sionofthe Information Age. Con! sumers should benefit from inI creased competition and media 
! companies wont be able to rest 
! on their laurels knowing that 
! their domains are protected by 
; regulation. Very few people are 
contesting this.
However, the fact that issues 
: of censorship and morality had 
ito be part and parcel of a bill 
based in commerce is alarming 
, to say the least. The Catcher in 
; the Rye, pictures, paintings and 
: sculptures of nudes, including 
| Michelangelos David, and litera| ture concerning sex or AIDS have 
'all been banned in a move that 
makes the internet the most 
 regulated section of the media.
: The bill prohibits material about 
: sex and other issues that can be 
; deemed offensive or smutty as 
: measured by contemporary com|munity standards on the 
; internet. A community is an 
| amorphous collection of individu; als and as such there can never 
\ be a final authori ty on standards. 
At the very most, there can only 
be predominant opinions, and 
| even these will vary enormously 
! between communities  what 
! works in New York City might 
; not fly in Hazard County. One of 
the greatest attributes of the 
internet is that it transcends 
! physical boundaries which often 
j distinguish and define different 
communities. It also transcends 
I the generational and socio-ecoI nomic divisions that define stanj dards within subsets of society.
; Another issue is that somej times things of great educational 
value can be offensive to those 
who simply dont have the stom
ach. The bill dictates that ques
tionable material will be judged 
in context. But who has the final 
say on whether or not something 
is presented in a relevant con
text or is just gratuitous? The 
ACLU feels that material on the 
internet should be treated as 
print media and enjoy the loose 
interpretation afforded to news
papers by the First Amendment. 
Congress feels that, as part of 
the telecommunications bill, the 
internet should be policed according to guidelines stipulated 
by the Federal Communications 
Commission. When the poten
tial for conflict of interpretation 
exists, one must always defer in 
favor of education and give the 
benefit of the doubt. Otherwise 
our jail cells will groan under the 
weight of Galileos claiming that 
the earth isnt the center of the 
Universe.
The U.S. government has never 
learned that you cannot solve 
problems based on intrinsic hu
man characteristics through 
forced ignorance. Prohibition led 
to the gang wars of the twenties 
and thirties and initiated a na
tionwide disregard for the law 
that exists to this day. Most US 
states still believe blindly in the 
effectiveness of the age 21 mini
mum for alcohol consumption. 
So we send our teenage soldiers 
off to battle in foreign countries 
and the result is the embarassing 
trial of three Marines for the 
drunken rape of a 12- year-old 
Okinawan girl.
Political correctness dictates 
that we bury all historical usage 
of the N-word and the result is 
simply more and more frequent 
use of the word by people who no 
longer recognize its historical sig
nificance.'
Now, we are seeing rampant 
underage pregnancy within an 
increasingly violent society  
things which ridicule our claim 
to being a civilized, first-world 
nation. The government wants 
to reverse the situation by cen
soring sexual and violent mate
rial in the media. At the very 
most, this can only be symptom
atic relief and history has shown 
that this approach does not work. 
It is only fitting that the bill sees 
the revival of a 123-year-old law 
prohibiting the dissemination of 
abortion-related material. Ironi
cally, the government is now ex
tending this practice of imposed 
morality to the Information Age 
 a more, bitter clash of ideals 
would be very hard to find in
deed.
Trying to solve societal prob
lems by hiding its members from 
the roots of those problems has 
been proven, time and time 
again, to be ineffective. But at a 
more basic human level, it is 
also insulting because it is based 
on the assumption that we do 
not possess the intelligence to 
deal rationally with the realities 
of life. The only proven remedy 
for societys ills is education, 
which has no tolerance for cen
sorship. As students of Carnegie 
Mellon, a university at the cuttingedge of telecommunications, 
we are amongst those who will 
experience first-hand, the ridicu
lous impositions of the new bill. 
Graduates of CMU will be shap
ing the future of the internet and 
will decide how it benefits soci
ety. It is therefore unfitting that 
the students of Carnegie Mellon 
should accept the terms of the 
telecommunications bill and its 
ramifications.
Our leaders are looking on us 
to be passive by signing into law 
such censorship provisions as 
riders on a larger communica
tion deregulations bill. We must 
prove them wrong.
Letters to the Editor
Reader replies 
to harsh column
USB
Lttten to tii. Editor ThtTtrunStudent Center Room 104
Editor:
Mr. Ermer seems 
to have little or no 
grasp of the function  ****** -
of an editorial. However, Mr. Ermer also *06 Editor 
seemes to have a 
smaller and even looser grasp of the 
conventions of society in general. An 
editorial is a presentation of an opinion 
on a pressing or at least interesting topic 
of public discussion.
Mr. Ermer apparently believes that 
an editorial is merely an excuse to ramble 
on about anything he happens to be 
thinking about.
From what I can tell, the entire point 
of his piece was Why cant people that I 
dont like just go away?, which is little 
better than whining.
If nothing else, this clearly demon
strates his inability to deal with other 
people, or his lack of social skill. He 
claims that he believes that being an 
individual is of the utmost importance, 
but youre only allowed to be an indi
vidual until you make him upset, at 
which point you become a freak.
At least the people whom he attacks so 
violently have never demanded that he 
act in accordance to suit their whims, 
which seems to indicate that in at least 
one area of social skill these freaks 
have outdone Mr. Ermer. His philoso
phy demands that all people must fol
low his personal code of social conduct.
Mr. Ermer seems to be so, enamoured 
with his pair of balls, that he seems to 
have overlooked one minor requirement 
for editorial writing: thought.
Does the measure of a persons social 
graces depend on whether or not they 
like fedoras?
Does this make sense to anyone else?
But Jason Ermer said it, so it must be 
true!
He seems to believe that only measure 
of social skill is how well someone can 
impress him.
Well, as he may or may not be aware, 
at least 99% of the campus population 
doesn't care if they impress him, and 
probably wouldnt care if he thought 
they were the scum of the earth. Face it, 
Mr. Ermer, you and your opinions dont 
matter, so stop doing what you accuse 
others of doing.
Stop clamoring for attention.
Stop trying to be what you arent: an 
editorial writer.
And no more juvenile rounds of namecalling, no more arbitrary and insulting 
classifications, no more setting yourself 
up as the judge of what is socially 
acceptaable, and for our sake, no more 
trying to play off your lack of intelli
gence as editorial talent.
Thats all I ask.
Marc Gabriele 
IS
Junior
Opinions abound 
on truth of story
Editor:
Jason Ermers was 
by far the best article 
ever published in the 
Tartan.
It resonates with 
everything that most 
of my friends and myself believe.
Our terms differ slightly from his, but 
the meanings are the same. It is encour
aging to know that there are people out 
there who are regular, but are aware of 
the different social strata at CMU and 
are not afraid to voice their opinions 
about it. The editorial was tastefully 
vague about specifics but provided plenty 
of local color.
It makes all the time Ive ever wasted 
reading the Tartan worthwhile to have 
had the pleasure of reading Ermers 
editorial.
Justus Pendleton
MCS
Junior
Letter to 
the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Hunt lacks traits 
Pitt holds dear
Editor: n
Thank you for an ex
cellent critique of 
Carnegie Mellons li
braries [Hunt library,
LIS needs significant 
overhaul, 2/5/96].
Any CMU student who visits the Hillman 
Library at the University of Pittsburgh 
will notice marked differences. Unlike the 
Hunt and E&S libraries, Hillman is el
egant, spacious, bright, and clean.
Not only does Pitt maintain excellent 
specialty collections in fields like engi
neering and modern languages, but Pitt 
also has a collection appropriate for ; 
major university.
The editorial recommends either an up
date to CMUs older Library Information 
System (LIS II) or an educational program 
for CMUs new Unicorn system.
In my opinion, Unicom should be rel
egated to the circulation desk and LIS II 
should be revitalized. Unicom violates ev
ery principle of interface design (for ex
ample it displays conflicting commands 
like BACK and GOBACK on the same 
screen, which makes it difficult for users 
to toggle between command buttons and 
text entry fields, and will not automati
cally advance the list of books when the 
user reaches the bottom of a page.)
LIS II, on the other hand, has an elegant 
interface geared to the most common 
searching activity: keyword searching.
LIS II could be modified to query Uni
com for book information.
Instead of abandoning LIS II, we should 
recognize it as one of the best assets of 
CMUs libraries.
Unicom is a expert-minded book circu
lation system while the Library Informa
tion System is a useful and user-firendly 
information access tool.
R. Paul Marcelin 
Logic and Computation 
Junior
Proposals allow increased security
Jon Orris
The recent proitem was an eloquent summation of the nature of entitlements, 
posals in Congress In response to.presidential candidate Steve Forbes plan to 
to cut spending on allow people to pay into their own retirement accounts instead 
various social proof into Social Security, the head of the AAJRP said: We are 
grams, and the posprotecting lower income people, and we need the input of those 
sibility of a Forbes with higher incomes to make Social Security viable. This 
presidency that statement sums up the essence of Social Security, as well as 
would drastically welfare, Medicare, and all other entitlement programs. Need" 
change the tax is presented as an absolute claim that cannot be questioned.
The fact that someone needs something gives them first claim 
on those who have it. Translated, this statement means, We 
need the money, and this gives us the right to take it from those 
who have earned it.
Id like all students reading this, especially those about to
structure of the country has liberals howling for blood.
Take the Republican proposals to cut spending on Medicare,
Medicaid, and welfare. The Republicans, sadly, concede the 
liberal premise that these programs are necessary and that it 
is proper to forcibly tax people to support them.
They proposed no more than cutting the growth of spending graduate and find employment, to stop for a minute and think 
on Medicare and Medicaid, and giving some local control of about this. CMU is one of the most difficult schools in the 
welfare back to the states. Yet the liberals reacted as if the nation, as anyone here can attest to. Think about the grueling 
Republicans had proposed wholesale slaughter of children, years you have spent here. Think about all the long hours spent
the elderly, and the poor.
Their reaction is nothing compared to the current hysteria 
over Steve 
Forbes. Mr.
Forbes is cur
rently running 
for president on 
the platform of 
radically re
vamping the 
tax system. His 
main proposal
"Theres this pervasive attitude that the 
The winners in lifes lottery must con
tribute more.
in a lab, a library, a studio, and in front of a computer. Think 
about the times when youve had to go without sleep, some
times several days in a row, to 
keep up. The reward for this is 
the ability to find a good job and 
command a high salary right 
out of school.
That high salary, though, 
notyours by right. The first claim 
on it belongs to someone else, 
someone who did not study, die 
not struggle, did not work t(
is to replace the current income tax system with a simple flat earn it, and it is his solely by virtue that he was incapable o 
tax with higher exemptions. No more form 1040, no more earning it.Think about what will happen when you start 
intrusive, fascist IRS. He also proposes eliminating capital looking for a job. Although getting through CMU gives one* 
gains taxes, allowing people to invest their own retirement significant edge in the job market, its still tough. We hearal 
money instead of throwing it into the sewer of Social Security, the time in the news about corporate do wn-sizings, about hoV 
and scrapping federal agencies left and right. After that, he tough the job market is,'about how uncertain the future of an] 
plans to start really changing things.The Democrats, the job is. Then think about all those who whine that the rich must 
media, and even, idiotically, many Republicans are tripping pay more, who whine that others need it more, and who thei 
over one another in their haste to condemn Forbes. Its a rare proceed to tax and regulate more and more every year. Do yol 
night that CBS news doesnt viciously attack Forbes, abanthink theres any connection? There are many economic a
doning any pretense at journalistic objectivity.
Their main concern seems to be that people, especially 
wealthy people, will not pay as much money in taxes. The 
capital gains cut especially has people up in arms. Theres this 
pervasive attitude that the rich must Pay their fair share (of 
what?) and that The winners in lifes lottery must contribute 
more. So people who got rich are just lucky, and are under 
some obligation to those who werent? Although I have heard 
it hundreds of times and in hundreds of ways, one recent news
ments that have been made by pro free market economists a 
to why taxes and entitlement spending need to be. cut. I woulj
like to emphasize the moral argument, which must be cons 
ered first. The reason to eliminate the capital gains tax,
:<id
the
Social Security tax, and entitlement spending is that tha 
money belongs to those who earned it by right. It does n 
belong to those who need it.
Jon Orris is a 5th year CS major.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 19965
Privatization assuages no important problems
In politics, timingis everything.
Take Steve Forbes, for instance. 
For a guy who looks like Bill 
Gates older brother, Forbes is a 
smart cookie. He had the good 
sense to push the flat tax at the 
same time 1040 forms were land
ing in mailboxes.
Or how about the majority Al
legheny County Commissioners, 
Larry Dunn and Bob Cranmer?
Theyre proposing privatization 
of the countys parks and mainte
nance departments while Pitts
burgh has a bumper crop of pot
holes and the former director of 
parks and maintenance is on trial 
for taking kickbacks.
But serendipity isnt a substi
tute for good ideas.
Forbes rhetoric sounds lovely: 
If everyones taxes are lower, then 
theyll have more money to spend. 
If they have more money to spend, 
then the economy will grow.
Unfortunately, its a weak re
tread of Ronald Reagans trickledown theory, which worked so 
well that the deficit ballooned 
while the wealthiest Americans 
grew even wealthier. Even die
hard Reagan fans agree that sup
ply-side economics was a disas
ter.
Not to mention the fact that 
Forbes proposed 17 percent tax 
rate is much too low to fund the 
federal government. I suppose 
thats no problem as long as we 
lop off some government agen
cies and turn their functions over 
to private industry. Close down 
silly agencies like the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, the 
OSHA, and the Federal Aviation 
Administration. Big business can 
regulate itself just as well as it 
did in the old days. Say, 1929.
And that brings us to Mr. Dunn 
and Mr. Cranmer, who are busy 
firing all of the Democratic cro
nies in county government and 
replacing them with Republican 
cronies.
Sure, contracting out some road 
maintenance makes sense. But 
why mess with the county parks? 
People on the CMU campus might 
not realize this, but Allegheny 
County has a marvelous system
of parks, which include ample 
greenspace, pools, and play
grounds, as well as such novel 
features as a working farm!
Just how, exactly, do the com
missioners intend to privatize 
these? If theres one thing I know 
about businesses, its that theyre 
around to make money. 
Privatizing the county parks 
means that some things will close, 
others will be auctioned off to the 
highest bidder, and whats left 
over will cost residents plenty to 
use. And who uses the county 
parks?
People who cant afford to go 
anywhere else.
You can bet that people who 
belong to the Fox Chapel Yacht 
Club arent sailing their ChrisCrafts in the lake at North Park.
Politicians everywhere are 
overreacting to impress voters. 
The end result is hastily-con
cocted cures that kill patients far 
faster than the diseases theyre 
designed to treat.
In their effort to privatize the 
public defenders office, for ex
ample, Dunn and Cranmer fired 
most of the staff without any plan 
in place to take up the slack,
leaving Justice not only blind, 
but deaf, mute, and broke as well. 
Theres a chance that some crimi
nals are going to be released be
cause the county cant provide 
legal representation for them. 
And judges, magistrates, and the 
county controller all say that hir
ing private lawyers rather than 
retaining permanent public de
fenders will cost the county more. 
Your tax dollars at work.
And theres the rub. The idea 
behind paying taxes is to build a 
society that works for everyone. 
We pooled our resources to create 
governments, so that, in the 
words of the preamble to the Con
stitution, we formed a more per
fect union, provided for the com
mon defense, and promoted the 
general welfare. Part of your job 
as a citizen is to pay taxes, and 
part of your elected officials du
ties is to see that your tax dollars 
work for you.
But by shirking their duties 
and throwing the burden of pro
viding governmental services 
onto the backs of the citizenry 
through privatization, our lead
ers are creating a dog-eat-dog 
society thats decidedly un-demo
cratic. Instead of looking out for 
each other (as Bob Dole said in 
his response to the State of the 
Union address), were all looking 
out for our own checkbooks.
Weve invested in civilization, 
but instead of demanding a re
turn on our investment, were 
cashing in our chips. When the 
going got tough, we gave up and 
went home.
Demand better. And if the sys
tem isnt working, then it seems 
to me that its time to fix the 
system, not to throw it out hap
hazardly.
Until then, I look forward to 
the day when USAir is running 
the nations air-traffic control 
towers.
And my heart will swell with 
civic pride when South Park is 
replaced with Six Flags over 
Route 885.
Jason Togyer is a graduating 
professional writing major who 
hopes that fire department dis
patching isnt turned over to Sears 
appliance repair.
Hed hate having to wait all day 
inside his burning house in case 
the firemen came.
Bright sun is sorely missed by cranky columnist
Douglas Howe
ever works is when the people in the film. 
are trying to get out of Pittsburgh, like in 
Only You. They went to Italy.
The burgh is an international joke. I 
know how those things go. Jersey is used 
as an international joke as well. It 
shouldnt be, because the comparisons 
Its cold. Its damn cold. Its as cold as hell, and associations are totally wrong. 
Pittsburgh winters bite. And Im not a CaliPeople make fun of New Jersey because 
fomia boy complaining that I cant go surfthe only parts theyve seen are from across 
ing. Im from New Jersey, and Lord knows the river in New York or on the turnpike, 
how bad it can be there. But the burgh has Thats why people from New Jersey are so 
got to have the worst winters. I wonder what defensive. They actually have something 
Pittsburgh has done to deserve such a horto defend. Jersey is quite beautiful and 
rific curse from God. God really doesnt have the basic fact is, all the best and most 
to make things this cold. ________________________________________________________________
"Men never find genital humor amusing. 
Nothing that reminds you of unending pain 
and anguish is funny. Except the Vietnam 
War.
It really doesnt help any
thing. Im not saying cold 
weather cant be nice or, 
at sometimes, helpful to 
the environment, but sev
enteen below zero is just 
flat-out butt-freezing.
There isnt a reasonable 
excuse for it. Apparently,
God looked at Pittsburgh
and said, Im gonna make it a dung heap, talented people come from New Jersey, 
The city-wide color will be gray. The people and everyone is jealous, 
will all be ugly, and Ill make every road one With Pittsburgh, no one can say any
way and each one will have potholes the size thing. They have to agree, because it is 
of small children. God spoke and thus it pretty gross. The Yinzers just accept it 
was. Some people say things like, Its a nice and go on. Hey, youre from Pittsburgh? 
place to visit, but I wouldnt want to live Its pretty friggin ugly there. Yup, but 
there. No! Pittsburgh isnt even a nice place the airports nice. I will admit though, it 
to visit. is kind of cool being an international joke.
The only good thing about Pittsburgh is Not everyone gets to be. No one says,
the airport. And thats so the burgh can Hey, youre from Vermont. Wow! Thats
actually make some money. If the airport funny.
wasnt so nice, people would just fly right You have to be pretty bad to have such 
over to Akron or someplace. high standing in the world of put-downs.
You can always talk about the airport. So It basically comes down to whats funny 
sweetie, how was Pittsburgh? Well, the and whats not. 
airport was nice. Its quite sad really, but Pittsburgh is funny. Boston is not. 
Pittsburgh can be so depressing. Think about Seltzer is funny. Tonic water is not. 
every movie that takes place in Pittsburgh. How funny would it be if a clown shot 
Bet you cant think of any. Youve probably tonic water in your face? Not very. Youd 
seen the movies too, but you blocked the probably get up and punch him (which 
Pittsburgh part out because you wanted to you probably should anyway, because 
enjoy it. Flashdance was filmed in Pittsclowns are annoying. Not as much as 
burgh. So was Creep show. The only time it mimes, but they are still pretty damn
bad.) But when seltzer comes out of the 
bottle, you laugh your ass off, because 
seltzer is funny.
Pork is funny. Not as funny as Spam, 
but still pretty funny. Chicken is not. 
People have tried to make chicken funny, 
but it never really worked.
Rubber chickens are kind of funny, 
but thats only because someone tried to 
make chickens funny when they are not, 
and you are really laughing at them, not 
the chicken.
Fish, not funny at all. Unless youre 
slapped in the face with one. But then 
again, being slapped in the face with 
__________________ pre.tty much any
thing is quite funny. 
Pies in the face used 
to be funny, but no 
longer. Dont know 
why. Just is.
Getting punched 
in the face: not 
funny. Getting 
kneed in the balls: 
funny. To women, 
that is. Men never find genital humor 
amusing. Nothing that reminds you of 
unending pain and anguish is funny. 
Except the Vietnam War.
Thats pretty funny. Women laugh at 
the balls thing because they have no. 
idea what its like, so it must be funny. 
And probably because they think its the 
closest a man will ever come to some
thing that relates to giving birth.
Women believe birth is much worse 
than getting kicked, jabbed, or squashed 
in the nads. And if you compare one to 
one, they are probably right.
But in the long run, men win by a 
landslide.
Women, on the whole, give birth twice, 
maybe three times. Men get attacked 
down south at least once or twice a year, 
for their entire lives.
When you give birth, you can be se
dated, drugged, hypnotized, and knocked 
out. When your jewels are crushed, 
theres no relief. When you give birth,
you get something out of it  a baby  
a brand new living creature that has 
come from you. When youre ball-busted, 
you get squat.
So on a whole, men win. My roommate 
and I were talking about fighting the 
other day, and he said, if it were a knock
down drag out fight, hed kick someone 
in the jewels. I was shocked. I dont know 
if I could do it. Thats kind of against a 
male code, isnt it?
I said, James Bond would never kick 
someone in the crotch.
Sure he would!
No way in hell would Bond do that. 
Hed hit a woman square in the face 
before hed do that.
Indiana Jones would. He was right 
there. Indiana would, but thats because 
hes fighting guys who deserve to be 
kneed.
Nazis always deserve that. Hitler could 
have used a good kneeing. Then again, 
Hitler probably was the type of kid who 
was kicked there one too many times. 
Just think, if Hitler wasnt kneed and 
got into art school, World War II never 
would have happened. But it did. And if 
nothing else came out of all the horrors 
and tragedy, at least the name Adolf was 
retired. After good ol Hitler, Id bet there 
werent that many folks out there jump
ing at the chance to name their child 
after a hideous monster.
Same with Judas. Retiring a number 
on a basketball team is nothing com
pared to this.
No Macbeths out there.
Or Attillas.
Not many Hermans out there either, 
but thats because its just kind of goofy 
sounding.
See Herman: funny. Cody: not funny. 
Unless youre Kathie Lee Giffords kid. 
Then its a riot.
Howe is currently being remodeled. 
Please excuse his mess. However, he does 
welcome any responsible replies to his 
column.
A PERSONS
Although Career Week has 
come and gone, thoughts of 
employment are still with us. 
Therefore, we asked: What 
Was the worstjobyou have 
ever had?
Dana Smith 
Sophomore 
Art
I worked for an ice-cream 
place where you had to serve 
weird people. This one guy asked 
for peppermint ice-cream with 
peanut butter and marshmal
low in it.
Nathan Hart 
Fifth Year 
Architect
I worked in the corn fields of 
Iowa, detesselling. I did that for 
three summers. We found dead 
deer occassionally.
Carl Hess 
Second Year 
Architect
I cleaned maggots out of i 
trash dumpster once.
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Josh Lederer 
Junior
Industrial Design
I worked at Hunt Library, 
shelving heavy-ass periodical 
books.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Ed.-in-Chief.. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed. Andrew McDermott
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
Acting News Co-Ed. Matthew Solitro 
News Co-Ed....Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor..............John Biggs
Sports Editor...........Paul Boothe
FeaturesEd.......................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor...........Ena Khan
Acting Calendar Ed.........Ken Flagg
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
..............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. .. Kevin Meehan
Art Editor...........Gabrlen Symons
Photo Editor.....Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr.Elizabeth Neuman 
Advertising ManagerChintan Shah
Systems Manager.............1-Ping LI
Acting Copy Mgr... Winter Mason 
Asst. Diversions Ed... Jay Miolla 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr...........Eric Salzman
Asst. Production.........Jennifer Li
Contributing Editors 
Franclne Gemperle, Shannon 
Gibney, Lauren Heinz, Kathy Liu
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chiappetta
Staffwriters 
Rahul Aggarwal, Amber Benezra, 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
Steve Chamoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donneiy, Jason Ermer, Dan 
Goldwasser, AnuJ Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, Adam 
Klivans, David Koran, Wiadimir 
Labeikovsky, Alex Lewln, April C. 
Moate, Angela Molloy, Dizzy 
Murphy, Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir 
Reddy, Rick Rikoski, Dan 
Rosenberg, Rick Simmons, James 
Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, Jason 
Togyer, Bill Vandermark, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, Adam 
Vincent, Susan Watson, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Art
Mark Eggert, Liz Morgan, Ryan 
Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casclato Jr., Hiromi 
Hasegawa, Shawn C. Knight, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger
Photo
Jaroslav Delapedraja, Josh Free
man, Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Ellas Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Mimi1 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav, 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Hel-; 
ena McGahagan, Victor Ortega,, 
Catherine Senderllng, M. J. Wil
son, Elizabeth Zambelll
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Diana Bartolotta, Alex Cheng, John. 
Defazio, Annemarie Devine, Ryan 
Donovan, F. Colt Foutz, Alvin Gavin,1 
Alexandra Grundeman, WilP 
Isenhour, Elizabeth Kanabe, Anukul 
Kapoor, Hanjay Kim, Diana Lalor,, 
Ian Loew, Dizzy Murphy, Tracey. 
Odell, Derek Robinson, Ronak 
Slnghal, Zulekha Spencer, Minh' 
Tran, Julee White
Tho Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Melloni 
University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students. 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members i 
of the University community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available lot-, 
the semester or academicyear. The odltoriala appearingatthe beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion  
of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and political car-1 
toon* are the opinions of individual creators. Tho Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any column orr 
political cartoon. Letters to tho Editor aro opinions of' 
authors who arc usually, but not necessarily, members of 
the Un'rvorsrty community. A letter intended for publication^ 
must bo signed and includotho writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be withheld upon' 
request. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 
500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condcnso or reject any letter. Copyright O 1996 by Tho Tartan. Tho t 
Tarlan editorial board reserves the right to withhold front. 
publication any copy it deems unlit for publication. i 
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh,
PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN *: 08903107,
Tho Tartan is a member of the Associ
ated Press.Ap

---------------------------------------------------

feg dgrgo/se oTt PghgEiRvgTu
Well be interviewing on campus March 5 & 6. Sign up at the Career Center and pick up your copy of "Projects at Oracle today. E-mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
ORACLE
.Enabling the Information Age
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 9406.. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com FAX: 415-506-1073 
For additional information, visit our WEB SITE at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
OVfcFiVol lumeG?:r umivz
W [Ayw
vt
Theirs. Ours.
With a running investment of over one-quarter of a billion dollars in research and development, no wonder Oracle is known for breakthrough technology.
If you're eager to work with this decades top graduates on the worlds fastest moving products, join us. Our software solutions are changing the way human 
knowledge is gathered, stored, retrieved and utilized. With record sales of $3 billion and nearly 50% growth in the last year alone, were now hiring over 100 of 
the best of the Class of96. If you have a BS/MS in CS, Math-CS, Information Networking, Technical Writing, Computer Engineering or Software Engineering, 
you could become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or Product Manager and work on any number of advanced technologies and products, including:
Digital Library-"Alexandria" Internet Products Object Oriented Databases
Media Objects Object Oriented Development Tools Distributed Computing & Networking
Enterprise Applications Interactive Multimedia Data Security Architecture
Massively Parallel Products Mobile Computing Vertical Applications
Linguistics Based Products Data Warehousing & Mining
LON DFeb.9(F A.P)FJ
5?oi4s,oRtt> &/ Activities ^9
<3\
Fun1>e:d
TKWWJ5AV F EjjUV.y. 11K
T-Z r L4s
THEARNheH lahHar tmS talD
fo?- ^lORE INFORM^TIOK/
TartnJt u
}

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 19967
Columnist extols masturbation
______Derek Robinson
Society has had a negative 
view on the subject of mastur
bation for too long, and it is 
time for this ignorant viewpoint 
to change. We no longer live in 
the Victorian age, and 
our society is mature 
enough to do away 
with some taboo sub
jects. Now, Im not 
talking about personal 
details of ones experi
ences; indeed, I think 
most people would get 
disgusted with per
sonal details dealing 
with almost any sub
ject. But masturbation 
is an integral part of 
the sexual realm and 
is not worthy of its 
derogatory attention.
First, to better un
derstand the current 
plight regarding mas
turbation, one must 
understand where these disap
proving viewpoints originate 
from. Societies, for the impor
tant duties of their own prolif
eration, are heterosexually ori
ented. The traditional view of 
sex is a standard act, where the 
end result is a baby. Masturba
tion, as it were, defeats these 
ends. Since it does not live up to 
the ideal sexual act, it is re
garded as immoral and wrong. 
However, many people fail to 
realize that masturbation is a 
sexual act in itself, and carries 
few, if any, consequences. Mas
turbation enhances the sexual 
act. Not only can a person make
important discoveries about 
achieving orgasm, it also estab
lishes a positive rapport with 
ones own body and pleasurable 
sexual acts.
Masturbation is also a form of 
female liberation. Traditional sex 
has always been male oriented. 
Many females do not reach their 
orgasm in the same amount of 
time it takes men to reach theirs.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
In addition, many females can 
get more sexual pleasure from 
clitoral stimulation compared to 
vaginal stimulation. However, a 
typical intercourse-relation 
makes a woman dependent on 
vaginal stimulation for her sexual 
pleasure.
In addition, studies show that 
92 percent of males have mastur
bated by age 15. Also, 40 percent 
of females have masturbated by 
age 15 (although this number in
creases to 62 percent by age 40). 
In a recent survey, out of some 
9,000 people sampled, 72.7 per
cent said they have masturbated. 
No evidence has ever been found
that correlates 
masturbation as a health haz
ard. However, it is well docu
mented that orgasm is a way 
for the body to release tension, 
and this can actually be very 
beneficial to ones health. At 
the risk of hammering away at 
a moot point, I wish to point out 
the fact that numerous animal 
species, including rats and dogs, 
have been documented 
self-stimulating their 
own genitals.
Why, then, is it such 
an (no pun intended) 
untouchable subject? 
Could it be because of 
the story of Onan (Gen
esis 38:8-11) in the 
Bible? Onan was slain 
by God for spilling his 
seed on the ground (one 
of the reasons mastur
bation is sometimes re
ferred to as Onanism). 
This could be the case, 
even though it seems 
more likely that Onan 
was performing the act 
of coitus interruptus 
(withdrawing from the 
vagina before male orgasm).
Perhaps there is no specific 
person or event responsible for 
the negative connotation sur
rounding masturbation. Cer
tainly, as we push to the new 
millennium, our society grows 
more and more liberal in its 
social atmosphere. Hopefully, 
humans wont continue to limit 
themselves by making certain 
subjects taboo. More and more 
people will begin to see mastur
bation for what it is: a separate, 
yet positive, sexual act.
jDerek Robinson is an unde
cided freshman in H&SS.
LOVE OVERBOARD
You are cordially invited to join the members 
of Spirit for an evening of dinner, dancing 
and a moonlit cruise aboard the Gateway 
Clippership for the 1996 Cultural Unity 
Formal. Friday, February 23rd from 
8pm to 12am. Transportation provided. 
Tickets are $20 and are available at the 
Info. Desk or contact Rosalyn Rice at 2-3162 
or rr3u for more information.
YOUR open TICKET to ADVENTURE.
Discover a career with a world of difference at United Airlines. Our fantastic growth and increased flight sched
ules have created new opportunities for domestic Flight Attendants.
The high-energy individuals we seek must be at least 19 years of age, a high school graduate, between 52 and 
6 and have the legal right to accept employment in the United States. To better serve the needs of our cultur
ally diverse passengers, we are looking for individuals who are bilingual in English and at least one of our 
select languages. You must be willing to relocate and enjoy helping customers.
Youll have the world at your feet as you travel to interesting destinations across the United States. Plus receive 
an exceptional compensation plan with travel privileges for you and your immediate family. For more informa
tion, please attend our
OPEN HOUSE INTERVIEWS
Friday, February 16, 1996 
9:00, 12:00pm 
Pittsburgh Airport Marriott 
100 Aten Rd.
Coraopolis, PA
Reach all your destinations with United Airlines! Seating is limited, so please arrive early. If unable to attend, 
please call (847)952-7200 for future Open House dates and locations. UAL is an equal opportunity employer JasonS
UJJ United Airlines
A real DEPARTURE from the ORDINARY
f,noi1 I,ov9 on kg9no, Mo99ogn9
James Stepanek
Another tragic milestone of 
Clintons foreign policy happened 
this past week: The first U.S. 
Soldier in the Bosnian Peacekeep
ing force died. According to news 
reports, Sgt. Donald Dugan 
picked up a piece of ammunition 
sitting on the side of a road. It 
exploded, causing severe head 
injuries which resulted in his 
death. As tragic as this death 
may be, I am relatively sure that 
this shall not be the last Ameri
can to die in Bosnia in the current 
mission.
This is just another of Clintons 
ill-considered jaunts in foreign 
policy. The fact that he, of all 
people, has the notion that the 
U.S. should be the worlds police
man is utterly incredible. This is 
the man who dodged the draft, 
protested a prior war in 
foreign countries, and 
expressed a manifest 
dislike for the military 
in a piece of correspon
dence. The only possible 
way I could fit this in 
with his character (or 
what passes for one in 
his case) is to assume 
that hes trying to make 
life difficult for the mili
tary.
Why else would he 
send troops into the middle of a 
generations-long conflict which 
has no resolution in sight? To be 
quite honest, the only time the 
states of Bosnia, Croatia, and 
Serbia have ever known peace 
was when they were crushed un
der the boot of a tyrant. Once the 
tight control of the communist 
government of Yugoslavia let go, 
the place erupted. The various 
factions have been killing each 
other for centuries. In fact, one 
often hears stories about people 
of these nationalities living in
the U.S. who, while never having 
lived in the area, still harbor ha
tred of wrongs committed by re
spective great-grandparents. All 
were going to do, at best, is pro
vide a respite so that the various 
parties can arm themselves and 
lick their wounds. Id bet a heap 
that the moment we leave the 
shells will begin flying once more.
Its not like we can justify it as 
a moral crusade. Clinton may try 
to do such a thing, but in all 
truth, the worst of it has already 
been done (for the short term at 
least). Due to the moronic poli
cies of the European governments 
which kept only some of the par
ties disarmed, the fighting was 
relatively one-sided for quite a 
while. The peace plan merely ac
cepts the fruits of conquest. This 
is like a policeman catching a 
mugger and letting him go with 
your property assuming that your 
relief that the mugging was over 
was satisfaction enough.
There was much talk about the 
ethnic cleansing and concentra
tion camps that were used to show
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
the monstrosity of the bad guys. 
Considering the amount of vilify
ing of the Serbs that we witnessed 
over the years, I somewhat won
der how we can claim any kind of 
moral high ground when were 
just letting them get away with 
it.
Mind you, Im not in favor of us 
punishing the Serbs. Id have no 
trouble with somebody else doing 
it. The blood and money ex
pended, however, should not be 
ours. Id say the butchers bill 
seems to be something that is
more due the European nations 
which at various times condoned 
or ignored the atrocities which 
were being perpetrated.
Of course another reason for us 
not doing such stuff is that its 
hard to find any good guys in 
this war. The Serbs we know are 
nasty, but then again the 
Croatians have just about 
matched them atrocity for atroc
ity. The Bosnians do come out 
looking like the ones to root for, 
but thats because they didnt 
have any means of fighting back. 
Id lay odds that they would have 
gotten just as dirty as the rest if 
the chance had presented itself.
Of course this all begs the ques
tion what are we doing over 
there? Well, it could be just part 
of Clintons spite the military 
plan. That would seem a little 
petty even for him. It has been 
justified on moral grounds, but 
Id say that case falls flat as I 
have shown above. A case has 
been made that action had to be 
taken to avoid having the war 
spread. Funny, the war had been 
going for about four or five 
years before we did any
thing, and it never looked 
like it was going to spread. 
Heck, the only real threat 
of it spreading is if the hard 
line Russians come to power 
and we tick them off by 
doing something stupid in 
there.
Theres only one case 
which could be made that 
holds any water. We did it 
to honor our commitment 
to NATO. Of course, if we hadnt 
gotten involved in the first place 
in either the negotiations or the 
earlier airstrikes, we wouldnt 
have been stuck with this point
less obligation. The only thing 
which will come of our involve
ment in this debacle be another 
patch of ground littered with U. S. 
Blood, and another foreign policy 
strike against Clinton.
James Stepanek is a PhD stu
dent in MSE. He welcomes any 
responsible replies to his column.
03VjO3wRUdE5 Vdffwf
EXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS' CAROMEMflERS.
WHEN & WHERE.
February 13th,
* See an American Express 
rep for theatre location.
WHAT.
Cardmembers get two compli
mentary passes to United Artists 
blockbuster The Birdcage.
HOW.
Just bring the American Express 
Card or Optima Card and your 
student ID to the location listed 
below to pick up your passes. 
NOW.
If youre not yet a Cardmember 
and would like to take part in 
our exclusive previews, Its easy 
to apply for the Card. Just call 
1-800-942-AMEX, ext. 4114.
MORE TO COME.
The Birdcage is one in a series 
of five major motion pictures to 
be previewed on your campus 
this year, compliments of 
American Express.
PICK UP YOUR TICKETS HERE.
Baker Hall
February 12-13
^AFI
American Film IniMuta
Entertainment
1996 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

LL2 flmonC zon,v
996
Office of the Registrar 
Spring, 1996
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAYFRIDAY
67
READING DAY
89
READING DAY
10
13141516
f

e
17
FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final examinations for the Undergrade, 
courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressure to move an exam so that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist
the student In resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the student's choosing during the final exan
period;
8. any student shall be permitted to see his/her corrected, graded final exam in the presence of an instructor,
provided the exam is not in the student's possession;
9. all final exams shall be returned to students, or be kept available to students for a period of not less than a
year;
10. in the event that a teaching assistant is unable to f 
course instructor;
II part 8 or part 9, the responsibility shall rest with the
RECORD, CLIP AND SAVE YOUR EXAM SCHEDULE...
ttmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
11. in the event that an instructor is unable to fulfill part 8,9, or 10, the responsibility shall rest with the
department in which the course was offered;
12. it is assumed that Instructors will return all work assigned before the final exam period. Thus, instructors
are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
NOTE: Complaints about violations of the final examination policy or alterations of the final examination schedule 
should be directed to the appropriate department head.
Students requiring assistance in resolving exam conflicts should first see their course instructor, and if further 
assistance is needed, the student should see their Associate Dean.
This final examination schedule is also found on the andrew bboard system under official.registrar-info, and on fe 
world wide web http://www.cmu.edu/ under Student Services, Registrar, Final Exam Schedule.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES18321ANAL/DES ANALOG CIRCTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMHH B103
03121MODERN BIOLOGYWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30- 11:30 AMMMA14.10318349CNCUR REALTIME SYSWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMMMA14
03122ORGANISMIC BOTANYMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMSH12518360INT COMP-AID DIG DESWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMMM 103
03130BIOLOGY OF ORGANISMWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMDH 231518396SIGNALS AND SYSTEMSTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 7500
03231BIOCHEMISTRY IMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMPH10018501ELECTROMECHANICSMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMPH A18B
03332BIOCHEMISTRY IIMONDAYMAY 135:30-8:30 PMWEH 540318547SUPERSCALAR PROC DESMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMMM A14
03350DEVELOPMNTL BIOLOGYMONDAYMAY 68:30- 11:30 AMMI 35518549TIME CRITCL COMP SYSMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMBH 355
03438PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMMI 44818716ADV APPL MAGNETISMMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMPH A18A
03441MOL BIO PROKARYOTEWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMMI 35518749DES AN RTIME MULSYSTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMSH 220
03738PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMMI 44818761VLSI CAD:LAYOUT MANFMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMHH B131
18794PATTERN RECOGNTNTHTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMMM14
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING18798IMAGE PROCESSINGMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMSH 212
06100INTRO TO CHEMENGRMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMMM 10318809IN DATA STOR SYS TCHFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMDH 1212
06155CHEM ENGR MATHFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMMMA14
06202UNIT OPERATIONSMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMDH 1112ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
06304ECON & OPTIMIZATIONTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMMM 10319101INTRO ENGR & PUB POLWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30-8:30 PMDH 1212
06606COMP MTH L SC PR DSTUESDAYMAY 148:30-11:30 AMHH B13119710MGT PRN/PRCT ENV ENGTUESDAYMAY 145:30-8:30 PMSH 212
06607PHYS CHEM COLL SURFWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMHH B131
06720ADV PROC SYS ENGINFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMHH B131MATHEMATICS
06903ADV TPC FLUID MCHNCSTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDH 111221105PRE-CALCULUSFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMSH 220
21111CALCULUS IMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMHH B131
CHEMISTRY21112CALCULUS IITUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2315
09104CH ASP ORG BIO MTLTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMDH 121221121CALCULUS 1MONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMDH 2315
09105INTROD MODERN CHEMTUESDAYMAY 14'8:30-11:30 AMDH 221021122CALCULUS 2MONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMDH 2210,2315
09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IIWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMPH 10021127INTRO TO MDRN MATHWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMDH 2210,1212
09131EXPERTECHCHEMIFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMDH 111221132ANALYSIS IIFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMDH 1212
09144PHYSICAL CHEMISTRYTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMHH B13121228DISCRETE MATHMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMDH 1112,1212
09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IIWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMDH 221021229SET THEORYFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMWEH 5403
09245PHY CHE MACROSCP SYSMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMHH B10321241LINEAR ALGEBRAWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMWEH 7500
09246STATISTICL CHEMISTRYMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMMMA1421256MULTI ANLYSIS APPROXWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMPH 100
09702STATISTICL CHEMISTRYMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMMMA1421257MODL METH OPTIMIZATNWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMSH 125
21259CALCULUS IN 3-DMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2210,1212
CIVIL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMDH 2210,1212
12100INTRO CIV & ENV ENGMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMWEH 750021292OPERATIONS RSCH IWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMDH 1112
12235STATICSWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMDH 111221342LINEAR ALGEBRA IIWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30-8:30 PMSH 125
12335SOIL MECHANICSTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDH 121221355ADVANCED CALCULUS IMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMDH 1112
12336SOL MECHNC & MAT LABWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMSH 12521356ADVANCED CALCULUS IIWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMWEH 5403
12411ENGINEERNG ECONOMICSMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMWEH 750021371FUNC CMPLX VARIABLEMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMBH 355
12605DESIGN & CONSTRUCTNMONDAYMAY 68:30- 11:30 AMHH B13121372PART DIFF EQUATIONSFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMSH 220
12621STRUCTURAL MECH IITUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMSH 21221373ALGEBRAIC STRUCTURES-SECT BTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMSH 125
12636GEOTECHNICAL ENGINRMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 21221374FIELD THEORYTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMSH 206
12655WATER QUALTY ENGINRNWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMHH B10321460TOPOLOGYMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMSH 206
12656WATER QUALTY ENG LABFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMSH 12521470SELECTED TOPCANALYSFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMSH 220
12665SITE REMEDIATION ENGMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMSH 20621484APPL GRAPH THEORYFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMHH B131
12675CAE TOOLSWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMBH 355
12702INFRASTRUCT MGMNTFRIDAYMAY 108:30- 11:30 AMMM 103MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
12710MGT PRN/PRCT ENV ENGTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMSH 21224101FUND OF MECH ENGRTUESDAYMAY 148:30-11:30 AMPH 100
12713SPEC TPCS CAEMWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMSH 42224112FLUID MECHANICSMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMSH 125
12725ORG COMP AQUATIC SYSFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMWEH 540324203STRESS ANALYSISMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMHH B131
12732GEOTECHNICAL ENGINRMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 21224208MANUFACTUR SCIENCESTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMBH 136A
12743EXPERT SYSTMS IN CAETUESDAYMAY 148:30- 11:30 AMDH A31724215POTENTL FLOWAERODYWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMSH 422
12744FUND GRAPHICS CAEMONDAYMAY 65:30-8:30 PMWEH 731624233HEAT TRANSFERTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMSH 125
12758BOUND ELEMNTS MTHDSWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30- 11:30 AMDH A31724246FEEDBK CNTRL SYSTMSMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMSH 125
12760ERTHQAKEENG SOL DYNMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMPH A18A24789MANUFACTUR SCIENCESTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMBH 136A
COMPUTER SCIENCEMATERIALS SCIENCES AND ENGINEERING
15200DATA STRUCTURESMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMPH 10027100MATERIALS IN ENGRTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMWEH 7500
15211FUND STRUCCMP SCIWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMDH 2210,231527215THERMODYN OF MATLS.WEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMWEH 5403
15212FUND STRC CMP SC IIWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMDH 1112,121227304MAT SCI ENGIN LABFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMDH 1112
15299HOW THNK COM SCIENTSTUESDAYMAY 148:30- 11:30 AMMM 10327322PROCESSING METHODSTUESDAYMAY 148:30- 11:30 AMSH 206
15312PROG LANG DES PROCFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMWEH 750027412MATERIAL SCI IIIWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMSH 220
15347INTRO TO COMPUTARCHWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMMM A14.10327442DEFORMATION PROCESNGTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMPHA18A
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMDH 121227533PRN GRTH PROC SEMCONWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMPH A18B
15385COMPUTER VISIONWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30- 11:30 AMDH 121227557SELECT PERF MATRLSMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMSH 422
15411COMPILER DESIGNMONDAYMAY 138:30- 11:30 AMBH 35527592SOLIDIFICATION PROCWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMSH212
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 750027760PHYS CHEM MET REACTWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMPH A18A
15413SOFTWARE ENGINEERNGMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMDH 111227763ELECTRON OPTICSMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMDH A317
15451ALGORITHMSMONDAYMAY 68:30- 11:30 AMWEH 750027770ELECTRON MAG OP PROPWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMSH 206
15463COMPUTER GRAPHICS 2TUESDAYMAY 148:30- 11:30 AMDH 111227782PHASE TRNS SOLIDS IFRIDAYMAY 108:30- 11:30 AMHH B131
15499COMPUTER NETWORKS-SECT DMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMDH 231527791MECH BEHAV OF MATLSMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMSH220
15499MEDIA TECHNOLOGY-SECTCMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMMM A1427792SOLIDIFICATION PROCTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMSH 206
15499PARALLEL ALG & PROG-SECT BMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMHH B103
15499ROBOTIC MANIPULATION LAB-SECT EMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMTBAPHYSICS
15612DISTRIB SYSTMSWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMWEH 750033106PHYSICS ENGR STUD IWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30- 11:30 AMDH 2210,1212
15820MEDIA TECHNOLOGY-SECT AMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMMM A1433107PHYSICS ENGR STUD IITUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2210
15820INTERFACE SOFTWARE-SECT BMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMDH A31733111PHYSICS SCI STUD IMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 7500
15882INTART NEURAL NTWRKMONDAYMAY 138:30 - 11:30 AMSH 42233112INTRO ELEC MGNETISMTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMDH 2210,11121
33114PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMPH 100
ROBOTICS33116INTRODUCT PHYSICSFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMMM 103
16741MECH OF MANIPULATIONTUESDAYMAY 148:30-11:30 AMWEH 842733124INTRO TO ASTRONOMYWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMDH A317
16811MATH FUND FOR ROBOTFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMWEH 842733211PHYS III: MOD ESSENTWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMSH220
33213PHYS III: MOD ESSENTWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMSH 220
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING33232PHYSICAL ANALYSISFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 5403
18100INTRO ELEC COMP ENGRMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMDH 231533234QUANTUM PHYSICS IMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMWEH 5403 '
18113BASIC ELECTRICAL ENGWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30- 11:30 AMWEH 750033332PHYSCL MECHANICS IIMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMWEH 7316
18220FUND OF ELEC ENGRTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMPH 10033338INTRM ELEC & MAG ITUESDAYMAY 148:30-11:30 AMHH B103
18240FUND OF COMPUTENGRMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMDH 221033446ADV QUANTUM PHYSICSWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 8427
18303ENGR ELECTROMAG IMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMSH 21233756QUANTM MECHANICS IIMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMSH220
18311SEMICOND DEVICES IMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMWEH 540333762CLASSCLELCTRODYN IIWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMWEH 8427
18316INDATASTORSYSTCHFRIDAYMAY 108:30- 11:30 AMDH 121233765STATISTCL MECHANICSTUESDAYMAY 141:00-4:00 PMWEH 7316 ;

---------------------------------------------------

33780NUCLR PARTCL PHY IIFRIDAYMAY101:00-4:00 PMSH 206
STATISTICS
36201 STATISTCL REASONINGMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMDH 2210,2315
36202INTRO STAT METHODSTUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMDH 2315
36203SAMPLNG SURVEY & SOCWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMHH B131
36208REGRESSION ANALYSISMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMMMA1436217PROB THEO RNDM PROCWEDNESDAYMAY158:30-11:30 AMDH 231536220ENGR STAT QUAL CTRLTUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMMMA14
36226INTRO PRB & STAT IIMONDAYMAY61:00-4:00 PMWEH 7500
36247STATS FOR LAB SCIENCWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMWEH 5209
36326PROB & MATH STAT IITUESDAYMAY145:30-8:30 PMBH 355
36402ADV DATA ANALYIIWEDNESDAYMAY81:00-4:00 PMSH 220
36410ELEM APPL PROBABLTYTUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMWEH 5403
36722CONTIN MULTIV ANALYWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMHH B131
36742ADV DATA ANALY IIWEDNESDAYMAY81:00-4:00 PMSH 220
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42501 PHYSIOLOGYWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2105
42604BIOLOGICAL TRANSPORTTUESDAYMAY145:30 - 8:30 PMSH 422
42636GEOTECHNICAL ENGINRMONDAYMAY135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 212
42652MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMSH 206
42680INSTACQ PRO BIO SIGFRIDAYMAY101:00-4:00 PMHH B103
42704BIOLOGICAL TRANSPORTTUESDAYMAY145:30-8:30 PMSH 422
42736 -PHYSIOLOGYWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2105
42752MUSCULOSKEL BIOMECHWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMSH 206
42780INSTACQ PRO BIO SIGFRIDAYMAY101:00-4:00 PMHH B103
ARCHITECTURE
48215 MATERIALS & ASSEMBLYWEDNESDAYMAY85:30-8:30 PMMM A14
48315ENVIR I: CUM & ENGMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMMM 103
48415TOTAL BUILDNG PERFRMWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMMMA14
48743EXPERT SYSTMS IN CAETUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMDH A317
48744FUND GRAPHICS CAEMONDAYMAY65:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 7316
DESIGN
51381DOCUMENTING VISUALWEDNESDAYMAY158:30- 11:30 AMPH A23
MUSIC
57152HARMONY IMONDAYMAY65:30-8:30 PMCFA 157,160
57153HARMONY IIWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 157
5715418TH CENTY CONTPARTMONDAYMAY61:00-4:00 PMCFA 157,160
57241ACTING IITUESDAYMAY141:00-4:00 PMMM 119
5725820TH CENTTECHNQUESFRIDAYMAY105:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 157
57265FUGUEWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMMM 116
57331PRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONWEDNESDAYMAY158:30-11:30 AMTBA
57335ANALYSIS SEMINARMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMCFA 160
57336INSTR/CHOR CONDUCTWEDNESDAYMAY158:30- 11:30 AMCFA 157
57362WOODWIND METHODSWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 160
57363STRING METHODSMONDAYMAY135:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 160
57375MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLSTUESDAYMAY145:30 - 8:30 PMMM 127
57427DEBUSSYMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMTBA
57765FUGUEWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMMM 116
57831PRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONWEDNESDAYMAY158:30- 11:30 AMTBA
57862WOODWIND METHODSWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 160
57863STRING METHODSMONDAYMAY135:30 - 8:30 PMCFA 160
57875MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLSTUESDAYMAY145:30 - 8:30 PMMM 127
57888INSTR/CHOR CONDUCTWEDNESDAYMAY158:30-11:30 AMCFA 157
57927DEBUSSYMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMTBA
57935ANALYSIS SEMINARMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMCFA 160
ART
60351ART & RELIGIONFRIDAYMAY108:30-11:30 AMSH21G
60357PICASSO &20TH CENTYWEDNESDAYMAY81:00-4:00 PMBH 237B
60357PICASSO & 20TH CENTYWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMSH 212
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY
66210 SCI TECH & ENVIRONMTWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMDH A317
66302REUG WORLDS PEOPLEFRIDAYMAY105:30-8:30 PMWEH 7500
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
70100 INTRO TO BUSINESSTUESDAYMAY141:00-4:00 PMMMA14
70101INTRO BUSINESS MGMNTWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMSH 125
70122INTRO TO ACCOUNTINGWEDNESDAYMAY158:30-11:30 AMPH 100
70208REGRESSION ANALYSISMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMMMA14
70251MANAGERIAL ECONFRIDAYMAY105:30-8:30 PMDH 2210
70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR-SECT. A,B,CMONDAYMAY131:00-4:00 PMDH 2210
70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR-SECT. DMONDAYMAY131:00-4:00 PMDH 1212
70313ORGNZTN POWER & POLTUESDAYMAY141:00-4:00 PMWEH 5403
70332BUSINESS & SOCIETY-SECT AMONDAYMAY65:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2315
70332BUSINESS & SOCIETY-SECT BMONDAYMAY65:30-8:30 PMPHA18A
70343INTRPERSNL COMMNCATNMONDAYMAY61:00-4:00 PMDH A317
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMMM 103
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCWEDNESDAYMAY81:00-4:00 PMHH B131
70369MERGERS &ACQUISITNWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMDH 1112
70371PRODUCTION IWEDNESDAYMAY158:30-11:30 AMDH 1112
70381MARKETING IMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMPH 100
70391FINANCE IWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMPH 100
70394FAST IIFRIDAYMAY108:30-11:30 AMWEH 7500
70422COST ACCOUNTINGMONDAYMAY135:30 - 8:30 PMMM 103
70430INTERNATNL MGMNTFRIDAYMAY101:00-4:00 PMDH 1212
70451MGMNT INFORMATN SYSWEDNESDAYMAY151:00-4:00 PMMM 103
70456MGMNT INFO SYS APPLSMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMHH B103
70490ISS INDUSTRIAL MGMTWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMSH 206
70492INVESTMENT ANALYSISMONDAYMAY131:00-4:00 PMWEH 5403
70495CORPORATE FINANCETUESDAYMAY145:30-8:30 PMPH 100
70520PUBLICITY PUB RELMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMSH 422
70639ADV INTER MED WRKSHPTUESDAYMAY145:30 - 8:30 PMMM 103
ECONOMICS
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICSFRIDAYMAY108:30-11:30 AMDH 2210,2315
73250MANAGERIAL ECONFRIDAYMAY105:30 - 8:30 PMDH 2210
73260ECONOMETRICS ITUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMWEH 7500
73300INTERMED MACRECONFRIDAYMAY108:30- 11:30 AMPH 100
73351PUBLIC FINANCEFRIDAYMAY105:30-8:30 PMDH 1112
73358ECO ENVRN NATUR RESMONDAYMAY135:30-8:30 PMSH 125
73360ECONOMETRICS IIWEDNESDAYMAY85:30-8:30 PMMM 103
73365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMSH 125
73420MONETARTHEO POLICYMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMHHB103
73458MONEY AND BANKINGMONDAYMAY61:00 -4:00 PMHH B103
73476AMER ECONOMIC HSTRYWEDNESDAYMAY81:00-4:00 PMHHB103
ENGLISH
76201CULT PRAC& LIT PRODMONDAYMAY131:00-4:00 PMPHA19
76227COMEDYMONDAYMAY65:30 - 8:30 PMPH 225B
76321DOCUMENTING VISUALWEDNESDAYMAY158:30- 11:30 AMPHA23
76322RDG BUILT LANDSCAPETUESDAYMAY148:30- 11:30 AMSH 220
76329CULTURE & TECHNOLOGYMONDAYMAY135:30-8:30 PMPH A18C
76331SHAKESPEARS COMEDIESMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMBH 235B
76339ADV STUDS MED FLM NRFRIDAYMAY108:30- 11:30 AMBH 255A
76341IRISH WRITERSWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMBH 235B
76364READING POEMSTUESDAYMAY141:00-4:00 PMBH 235B
76384ARCH OF PARAGRAPHMONDAYMAY65:30-8:30 PMSH 220
76470PROF & TECH WRITINGMONDAYMAY65:30 - 8:30 PMDH A317
76471WRTG IN PROFESSIONS-SECT BTUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMSH 125
76722RDG BUILT LANDSCAPETUESDAYMAY148:30-11:30 AMSH 220
76731SHAKESPEARS COMEDIESMONDAYMAY138:30-11:30 AMBH 235B
76739ADV STUDS MED FLM NRFRIDAYMAY108:30-11:30 AMBH 255A
76741IRISH WRITERSWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMBH 235B
76764READING POEMSTUESDAYMAY141:00-4:00 PMBH 235B
76784ARCH OF PARAGRAPHMONDAYMAY65:30-8:30 PMSH 220
Mon.-Fr
79104INTRO TO WORLD HISTWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMDH 2210,2315
79110DYNAMICS CULTRL CHNGWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 -8:30 PMPH 100
79124DEC PROC POS-SOV POLFRIDAYMAY 105:30-8:30 PMSH 206
79202INTRO ANTHROPOLOGYMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMHH B131
7921820TH CENTURY AMERICAMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMBH355
79241CRIME &PUNISHMNT AMMONDAYMAY 65:30-8:30 PMMM 103
79265ETHNICITY MOD AMERMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 5403
79269GREECE & ROMEFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMBH 235A
79275HSTRY OF MOD WARFAREMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMDH 1212
79281 IRISH HISTORYMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMHHB131
79284CRIT ISS AM ENV HISTWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMBH 235A
79287HIST AMERICAN SPORTSMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMDH 1112
79290FAMILY LAW & SOC POLWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMSH 212
79291VIETAFGHN CRIS MANGWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMDH A317
79304NEW TOPICS SOC HSTRYTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMBH235A
79307RITUAL & CEREMONIESMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMSH 206
79311JEW COM MODURB AMERFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMSH 212
79315POLITICS OF PRESIDCYMONDAYMAY 135:30-8:30 PMPHA18A
79324PICASSO & 20TH CENTYWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMBH 237B
79324PICASSO &20TH CENTYWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMSH 212
79353COLONIAL AMERICAWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30-8:30 PMSH 220
79359TCHNLGY & ORGANIZATNFRIDAYMAY 108:30- 11:30 AMSH 125
79360RISE INDUS RSCH DEVWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30-8:30 PMHHB103
79370INTL ENV AFFRS & POLTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDHA317
79451PEASANTS & HACIENDASMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMPHA18B
79820RISE INDUS RSCH DEVWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMBH 235B
79821RISE INDUS RSCH DEVWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30-8:30 PMHHB103
PHILOSOPHY
80108 INTRO INTELLIGENCEMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 220
80110NATURE MATHMTL REASNMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMSH 220
80180NATURE OF LANGUAGEMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMPH 100
80210INTRODUCTN TO LOGICMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMMM 103
80254CONTINTAL PHILOSOPHYMONDAYMAY 135:30-8:30 PMHH B103
80312PRBLTY ARTFCL INTELFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMMMA14
80712PRBLTY ARTFCL INTELFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMMM A14
80754CONTINTAL PHILOSOPHYMONDAYMAY 135:30-8:30 PMHH B103
MODERN LANGUAGES
82101 ELEMENTARY FRENCH ITUESDAYMAY 148:30-11:30 AMSH 212
82122ELEMENTARY GERMAN IITUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMSH 220
82123SELF-PACED GERMANFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMHH B103
82132EL MANDRN CHINESE IIMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMDH 1112
82141ELEMENTARY SPANISH IMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMSH 212
82142ELEM SPANISH IIMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMSH 206
82143SELF-PACED SPANISHWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMSH 212
82162ELEMEN ITALIAN IIFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMMM A14
82192ELEM RUSSIAN IIWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMSH 422
82232INTERMED CHINESE IIFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMMM 103
82241INTERMED SPANISH IFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMSH 125
82242INTERMED SPANISH IIWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMWEH 5403
82262INTERMED ITALIAN IIMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMPHA18B
82292INTERMED RUSSIAN IIMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMDH A317
82304INT FRNCH/FRANC CULTWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMWEH 5403
82343HISP LANG CULTURE AWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMSH 206
82344HISPNC LANG & CULT BMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMSH220
82345INTRO TO LIT & CULTMONDAYMAY 138:30-11:30 AMDH A317
82392ADVANCED RUSSIANMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMBH 355
82430GER LIT ELY 20TH CENMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMPH A18B
82451PEASANTS & HACIENDASMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMPHA18B
82456STSPANLATAM LITMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 206
PSYCHOLOGY
85102 INTRO TO PSYCHOLOGYFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMDH 2210,2315
85105CREATIVTY COGNITIONMONDAYMAY 131:00-4:00 PMSH 212
85108INTRO INTELLIGENCEMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 220
85120GENERAL PROGRAMMINGMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMSH 125
85150INTRO TO SOCIAL PROBWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMSH 212
85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30- 11:30 AMSH 125
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTFRIDAYMAY 101:00-4:00 PMPH 100
85241SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYMONDAYMAY 65:30-8:30 PMWEH 7500
85251PERSONALITYMONDAYMAY 68:30- 11:30 AMPH 100
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYMONDAYMAY 65:30-8:30 PMPH 100
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMSH 220
85370VISUAL PERCEPTIONFRIDAYMAY 108:30-11:30 AMHH B103
85390HUMAN LEARN & MEMORYMONDAYMAY 68:30- 11:30 AMPH A18A
85414CGNTV NEUROPSYCHWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMPHA18C
85424TPCS SOC COGNTV DEVLWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30- 11:30 AMWEH 5403
85446PSYCHOLOGY OF GENDERMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMSH 212
85502SPECIAL TOPICSFRIDAYMAY 105:30-8:30 PMSH 212
85710GRAD CORE COURSE IMONDAYMAY 61:00-4:00 PMSH 422
85714CGNTV NEUROPSYCHWEDNESDAYMAY 81:00-4:00 PMPHA18C
85724TPCS SOC COGNTV DEVLWEDNESDAYMAY 88:30-11:30 AMWEH 5403
85746PSYCHOLOGY OF GENDERMONDAYMAY 68:30-11:30 AMSH 212
85802SPECIAL TOPICSFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMSH 212
SOCIAL
88104
AND DECISION SCIENCES
DEC PROC POS-SOV POLFRIDAYMAY 105:30 - 8:30 PMSH 206
88108INTRO INTELLIGENCEMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMSH 220
88201STR ANALY & DESIGNWEDNESDAYMAY 151:00-4:00 PMWEH 7500
88221POLICY ANALYSIS IIMONDAYMAY 138:30 - 11:30 AMWEH 5403
88223DEC AN DEC SUP SYSTFRIDAYMAY 105:30-8:30 PMDH 2315
88241EMPIRCL RSCH MTH IITUESDAYMAY 141:00 -4:00 PMDH 2315
88315POLITICS OF PRESIDCYMONDAYMAY 135:30 - 8:30 PMPH A18A
88319VIETAFGHN CRIS MANGWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30- 11:30 AMDH A317
88330INTL ENV AFFRS & POLTUESDAYMAY 145:30 - 8:30 PMDH A317
88345RISE INDUS RSCH DEVWEDNESDAYMAY 85:30 - 8:30 PMHH B103
88348FAMILY LAW & SOC POLWEDNESDAYMAY 158:30-11:30 AMSH 212
88369USER INTERFCE DESIGNMONDAYMAY 65:30 - 8:30 PMSH 206
HEINZ SCHOOL
90714POLICY & POLITICS IWEDNESDAYMAY98:30- 11:30 AMHBH 1000,1002
90718PROFESSNL SPEAKING-SECT C4, D4, F4WEDNESDAYMAY81:00 -4:00 PMHBH1000
90722MANAGEMENT SCIENCETUESDAYMAY71:00-4:00 PMHBH 1000,1002
90724FINANCIAL ANALYSISMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMHBH 1000,1002
90725INFO TEC SOC ACCTBLTUESDAYMAY71:00-4:00 PMHBH 1004
90729ORGANZTNL DES/IMPLEWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMHBH 1000,1002
90732WELFARE POLICYTUESDAYMAY78:30-11:30 AMHBH 1002
90733URBAN DEVELOPMENTWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1510
90745DEC SUP SYS PUB SECWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1003
90747COST-BENEFIT ANALYWEDNESDAYMAY91:00-4:00 PMHBH 1003
90748URB POL& DEVLMN SEMMONDAYMAY65:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1510
90755THEATRE MANAGEMENTWEDNESDAYMAY98:30-11:30 AMHBH 1004
90756FUND RAIS ARTS MGRSTUESDAYMAY78:30-11:30 AMHBH 1003
90771APPL ECONOMETRCS IIWEDNESDAYMAY88:30-11:30 AMHBH 1004
90783LOCAL AREA NETWKNGTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1002
90787DECISION ANALYSISMONDAYMAY68:30-11:30 AMHBH 1004
90790STATE LOCAL FINANCEMONDAYMAY61:00-4:00 PMHBH 1003
90799NEGOTIATIONMONDAYMAY65:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1003
90800ORG MGT THEO & PRAC-SECT AMONDAYMAY65:30-9:00 PMHBH 1002
90800ORG MGT THEO & PRAC-SECT BWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1003
90801DATA ANALY MANAGERSTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1003
90802CMPTR APP PUB MGRSTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1001
90803ECO PRINC POL ANALYWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1000
90804FIN ANALY FOR MGRSTUESDAYMAY75:30-9:00 PMHBH 1000
90805ACCOUNT FOUNDATIONSMONDAYMAY65:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1511
90815URBAN LAW FOR MGTTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1117
90817RES DEV NON-PROFITSWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1001
90820STRATEGIC PLANNINGWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1000
90822HUMAN RESOURCES MGTWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1002
90827ADV ORGNZTNL MGMNTWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 2110
90830FIN MGT HEALTH SYSTWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1510
90837HEALTH PROJ PLAN MGTTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1511
90839TRAIN TECHNQE TECHNWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1002
90842PUBLIC POL IMPLEMENTWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1004
90844MANGNG QUALTY IMPROVMONDAYMAY65:30-9:00 PMHBH 1004
90845ADV TPCS LEADERSHIPTUESDAYMAY75:30-9:00 PMDH 1211
90851MANGRAL COST & ACCNTWEDNESDAYMAY95:30 -9:00 PMHBH 1511
90852INVSTMNT ANALY MGRSTUESDAYMAY75:30-9:00 PMHBH 1510
90853MED INFORMTN SYSTEMSTUESDAYMAY75:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1004
90859GOV & FUND ACCOUNTNGWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1511
90862MANAGED CAREFRIDAYMAY108:30-11:30 AMHBH 1004
90873MGT CMPTR INFO SYSTMONDAYMAY65:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1000
90876CMPTR PRGRM MTHDS IIWEDNESDAYMAY85:30 - 9:00 PMHBH 1004
90906INTRO ECONMTRC THEOTUESDAYMAY78:30-11:30 AMHBH 1004

---------------------------------------------------

She started her 
career designing 
screen savers. 
Now she's 
designing 
life-savers.
When Betty Riley joined ATL, she 
had no idea of the long-term 
effects of her abilities. In her role as Sr. 
Software Engineer, she's been 
instrumental in developing innovative 
diagnostic imaging systems, including 
the standard setting HDI3000. For all 
kinds of health issues and all kinds of 
patients, she's helped ATL develop 
software to broaden the scope of 
diagnostic applications, and broaden her 
career in the process. Entry-level 
opportunities now exist in the following 
areas for new grads.
INFORMATION SESSION
February 22nd, 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Student Center - Room #203
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
 System Architecture
 Digital Signal Processing
 User Interface/Clinical Applications
 Design Analysis and Validation
 Tools and Integration
TECHNICAL WRITERS
 Technical Publications
 Writing, Editing, and Illustrations
 BS in related field
Entry-level positions require a BSCS/EE 
or MSCS/EE and software development
knowledge in C/C++ in an 
UNIX/embedded systems environment. 
Knowledge of Make, Shell scripts, xwindow tool kits, and UNIX utilities 
(Awk, Yacc, Sed, etc) is a definite plus. 
Knowledge of imaging applications and 
networking a plus.
ATL is located in Washington State, just 
30 minutes northeast from downtown 
Seattle. Considered by many to be one of 
the most desirable places to live in 
America, the Puget Sound region of 
Washington State boasts some the most 
spectacular scenery in the world.
ATL offers a team-oriented environment 
with competitive, comprehensive 
benefit? including a 401K and tuition 
reimbursement. Qualified candidates 
please send or e-mail resumes to: 
Advanced Technology Laboratories,
P.O. Box 3003, 22100 Bothell-Everett 
Highway, MS-226, Bothell, WA 98041- 
3003. E-mail: atljobs@corp.atl.com 
Attn: CMU. ATL maintains a smoke-free 
and drug-free workplace. Equal 
Opportunity Employer.
For more information on 
ATL, please visit our 
homepage at: 
http://www.atl.com
little itaUe italy
Pizza pie cqmpgihy
Cpizza au' natural')
3bW fiftt) ajQnue riJt / Oakland pa.
621-2295 < 621-2366
pizza, pasta, 
baogfes, calzon 
5+roMboli, salads
5 I^OTQ.
vtG^tciRiavi v 
CUT2IU|e
------------ .
tar^e plain /pick tp j
spoetai ~
FRe.e. v Re.cw_e.22 p<LLive.Ry 
accept a L L
CoMpetitoR2 
Coupon^'
nor*
EL
Pittsburgh Finally Has A Low-Fare Airline.
Our Promise To Pittsburgh: low Fares Every Day, Everywhere We Fly.
If you've ever wished airfares were lower, your 
time is coming. Because on March 1, Valujet will begin 
flving three daily nonstops to Atlanta. And every seat on 
every flight is just S59 for travel through March 31.1996. After 
that date, fares as low as S59 will still be available with a 21-day 
advance purchase. Seats are available now.
From Atlanta you'll be able to make convenient, 
low-fare connections to seven sunny Florida cities, for fares 
as low as $79. You can also connect through Atlanta to cities 
around the south, including New Orleans, Savannah, and 
Dallas-Fort Worth. .And you may find that the great, big 
airlines will lower some of their fares to those destinations 
now that Valujet's come to town. Which is why we say.
"The fare's not fair, unless Valujet flies there."
WhafsAValujei, Anyway?
Valujet is an Atlanta-based airline founded on the 
principle of offering low airfares and friendly, enthusiastic 
service. We don't have a First Class section, we won't serve 
airline food, and we can't fly you to Europe. But our low fares, 
positive attitude, hassle-free "ticketless" reservations system, 
and lack of restrictions (Valujet never requires a roundtrip 
purchase or a Saturday night stay.) have resulted in such a high 
degree of customer loyalty that Valujet has been described 
as. the most successful start-up in airline bistoiy."
We invite you to find out why for yourself
1-800-VALUJET
Everyday Low Valutarci 1
ATLANTAm
CHARLOTTE$69
MEMPHIS NASH\'II1F. 
SAVANNAH$89
I.ACKSON NEW ORLEANS 
RALEIGH DURHAM$99
DALLAS-FORT WORTH 
KANSAS Cm$119
Florida ValuFares
ORLANDO TAMPA$19
FORT LAUDERDALE 
FORT.\nm JACKSONVILLE 
MIAMI WEST PALM BIHCH$89
B,vy?ui
Visit us on the Internet at http: www.valujet.c6m
Fare to Atlanta i.- good for every sent on every flight fur travel through March 31.1996. Rires are based on Valujet's 21-day advance purchase Off-Peak fares, 
and will still be available on that basis after conclusion of this special offer. Off-Peak times i we call them ValuDaysi are: Monday. Tuesday and \\ednesday: Thursdav 
before 2:00 PM and after ~00 PM: Friday before 11:30 AM: Saturday before 9:00 AM and after 12:(X> Noon: Sunday anil Holiday pent xls are Peak. Our lawyers insist 
we tell you that schedules and fares are subject to change without notice. An Airport' Passenger Facility Charge of S3- So may applv. but we can't do anything 
, about that. All fares are subject to availability. All fares are one-way ami non-relundable. All's well when you fly Valujet.
Disclaimer: the word reckless is intended to mean "wreck 
As in: Impeccably safe & courtious drivers wreck less.
 less
Learning Services Workshops
Paragraph Structure and Organizational Patterns 
Wednesday  February 7,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble deciding which information in a textbook 
chapter is most important? This session will help you to understand 
how textbook chapters are organized and how to pick out the most 
important information in a chapter. Paragraph structure and patterns 
of organization will be identified. You will see how certian organiza
tional patterns appear in certain subjects. During this session, you 
will have an opportunity to work with your own textbooks.
Preparing for Exams
Tuesday  February 13,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble deciding what information will be on an 
exam? Do you have problems in merging text and lecture informa
tion? This session will help you to identify important information for 
exams and re-organize information for more effective studying.
Exam preperation strategies and self-testing strategies will be cov
ered. During the session, you will have an opportunity to practice 
these strategies in preparation for your next exam.
Successful Exain Strategies
Thursday  February 15,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble answering multiple choice questions on an 
exam? How successful are you at answering essay questions? Do 
you freeze when you get an exam and have trouble answering any 
of the questions? This session will help you with strategies for an
swering all kinds of exam questions and coping with test anxiety.
To register for these workshops, contact Learning Ser
vices at 268-6878 or email: mw2v@andrew.

---------------------------------------------------

Live off campus? Sign up for /VEST True Reach Savings"' and save 25%
no matter who, how, when or where
you call in the U.S.
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings5" is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on 
your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem - 
when you spend just $25 a month* No other plan gives you all these different ways to save** 
Just c;all 1800 TRUE -ATT to sign up. Save on every call. Thats Your True Choice
ENTERING ROSTERS USING EMAIL
To enter your team by way of email, 
(oti must use an Official Entry Form," 
rtiich is posted to the official.athleticiept-news bboard periodically. Please 
isethis form when entering your team. 
Questions can be directed to: 
Michelle (x8-2053 or email to mish).
OFFICIALS ARE NEEDED
Basketball, Floor Hockey, Indoor 
Soccer,, and Softball officials are still 
leeded. If you are interested.in any of 
hese activities and are looking for a 
Paying campus job, call IM Director 
Mike Mastroianni atx8-2214 or stop in 
tne IM Office, Room 101 of the Gym.
APARTMENTS
UNLIMITED
Studios 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
3 Bedrooms 
3 Bedrooms w/ den 
Shadyside and 
Squirrel Hill 
Call for further info.
(412) 521-7838
Spring, Summer, Fall, Occupancy
Spring Break 1996
TRAVEL FREEH
Jamaica. Cancn. Bahamas 
Panama Citv. Davtona. Padre 
** Great low, low prices 
 Free Trip on only 15 sales 
,^SL Call for a FREE 
information 
TV^ ' packst.!
Ja ,RT ,eodnp ySRgn 
U 1 -800-426-771Q__
FEMALES 18-25 
Earn $15
Participate in a blood 
Pressure study. No blood 
"'ill be taken & nothing is 
painful!
Call 383-2202 
University of Pittsburgh
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996 11
Rkd ,vvr9i,m9 sgyavu I,:uc muagynsc ,ns Cgmovv, syn:
ALL-STARS, from page 13
Another westerner has a simi
lar awkward style. Clyde The 
Glide Drexler isnt the prettiest 
performer, which makes him all 
the more fun to watch. The Glide 
has a low-altitude jumpshot, 
probably because hes saving en
ergy for his familiar flight pat
terns over the heads of his oppo
nents to the hoop.
Jason Kidd is a fast break wait
ing to happen. Hell turn a miss 
into a rebound and an assist, 
faster than you can say triple
double. He may not lead a revo
lution, but hes certainly chang
ing things from coast to coast.
And then theres Penny 
Hardaway. Will he work his op
ponent inside, or outside? See 
Penny drive and dish, dunk and
defend. How will Penny beat you?
The only thing Scottie Pippen 
is missing is a great nickname. 
He may not be the best at ahy 
one thing, but he could, quite pos
sibly be the greatest basketball 
player overall. Always unpredict
able, one of these days Scottie 
may jump over somebody.
Shaquille ONeal has The Man 
of Steel tattooed on his arm.
Please pardon him while he does 
a pretty good impersonation. His 
meaty hook shot is as sweet as his 
dunk is thunderous.
Let us not forget the first doeverything All-Star, Michael Jor
dan. Will he steal it? Will he swat 
it? Doesnt he hang in the air for 
a fraction of a second longer than 
everyone else? How many points 
this quarter, Mr. Jordan? Five,
ten, twenty? Watch him light up 
as he does one of those break
away poster dunks.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major. He is a 
columnist all-star. He is capable 
of a reverse-360 spin jam on the 
basketball column while complet
ing a college football column 
down-set-hike Hail Mary.
Administration
IM Director  Mike Mastroianni x8- 
Asst. Director Mike Grzywinski 
IM Secretary  Michelle 
x8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  
Monico and Sean Keane X2-2900; 
Women's President  Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
Tuesday Pinochle Schedules can 
be picked up in the IM Office.
ThursdayWater Basketball Sched
ules can be picked up in the IM Office.
IM BASKETBALL
The first 1996 IM Basketball 
Rankings are out. Here are the rankings 
as of last Thursday:
MAJORS
1. GSIA Boom (3-0)
2. Players (2-1)
3. Beta Big Men (3-1)
WOMEN
1. Soccer Babes (3-0)
2. Tartan Hoopers (2-0)
3. Random Collection (2-1) 
INTERMEDIATE
1. KSA Dominions (4-0)
2. PKT Agongs (3-0)
3. Beta Prime Time (3-0)
4. SAE Above the Rim (3-0)
5. ECE Lightening (3-1)
MINORS
1. PKT Damn Bs (2-0)
2. Club Taiwan Roc (2-0)
3. Run & Gun (2-0)
4. G Money (2-0)
5. Trotes (2-0)
6. Club Taiwan (2-0)
7. Dead Frog (2-0)
8. Asians (2-0)
9. 69ers (1-0)
10. Beta Hackers (2-0)
INTRAMURAL ALL SPORT TOTALS 
(as of last Wednesday)
MENS
1. SAE  2350
2. Rude Dogs  1500
3. PKT  1166 2/3
4. Beta  808 1/3
5. FC Schlitz  750 
YOMENS
1. Tartan Hoopers  750
2. Rude Dogs  300
3. The Flying 0s  250
4. Pioneers  233 1/3
SCHEDULES
Schedules for Pinochle and Water 
iasketball and dates for the Wrestling 
neet and practices will be out by the 
end of this week. Check the IM Office or 
the official.athletic-dept-news bboard 
for information. If you have any ques
tions concerning these activities, call 
he IM Office at 3GAOOME or x8-2053.DCXtOT^S not his usual self. 
You suspect the 9,v9,6 
So you call Dr. Nlisblcitt, your family vet back home.
The call iS cheap.
(Too bad about the COTl SUltdtiOTl fee.)
dU7U
Your True Choice
Refers to long distance calls billed to AT&T home or AT&T Calling Card account. Discounts off AT&T basic rales Certain exclusions apply Subject n > billing juibliilm: Offer available to''residential AUiT custom Minimum pending requirement is per residential line. "Compared to major long distance carriers. 0 19% 'AT&T.

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
03x mutgCnoSu9 I,vv ,i_vuiu9
kI8y PAUL BOOTHE
tartan Sports Editor
, .Over the weekend, while the basketball teams 
Rattled against the University of Chicago and 
 I^ew York University, the Athletic Department 
honored its fall student athletes with halftime 
i; ceremonies.
.At the half of the mens game against Chi
cago, Aaron Neal was honored as a Burger King
- Scholar-Athlete, and CMU was presented with 
a $25,000 check for its general scholarship 
,.fund. Neal won the award for his outstanding 
.football play as a tight end for the Tartans, while 
maintaining a 4.0 QPA in civil engineering.
Tennis player Keri Mills was honored at the 
. half of the womens game that same night. Mills
* earned a school record of 19-1 in singles play this 
1 past fall and is the current Rolex Northeast 
Regional singles champion. Mills is also ranked 
^second in the nation among NCAA Division III 
.^ingles tennis players.
' On Sunday, the womens cross-country team 
was recognized for its outstanding season. The 
squad finished 11th in the nation and is the 
L Current UAA and Mideast Regional title-holder. 
"Also, both the mens and womens cross-country 
teams were awarded Academic All-America hon
ors. The womens team has a combined 3.55
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
Neals award earned the school a $25,000 check 
from Burger King for the general scholarship fund.
average, while Melissa Baustert, Rebecca 
Buchheit, Maureen McGranaghan, and Sangita 
Jinwala all received individual honors. The mens 
team had a combined 3.65 average, while Joshua 
Donner, Brian Ingram, Kristo Kriechbaum, Ron 
Polcawich, and Seb Zeisler received individual 
honors.
Also on Sunday, the Tartans recognized all of 
the fall All-UAA performers.
Last week, two Tartan athletes were honored 
as UAA Athletes-of-the-Week. Baustert won for 
her performances in the Denison University In
vitational, which qualified her for the NCAA 
Division III Indoor Track and Field Champion
ships. Senior Matt Moe was recognized for his 
four first-place finishes and two Skibo pool records 
against Westminster College and Fairmont State.
IIun9u _ymi9 8uov9e t_,ntu9
DEVILS, from page 14
alty minutes when he used to 
have well over 100 by this time. 
No one is excelling in the plus/ 
minus category this year; per
haps the Devils could be a bit 
stronger in this category.
Offense  This is the heart of 
the Devils problems. While they 
never have been known for high 
scoring, the Devils are particu
larly anemic this season. Steve 
Thomas leads them with 43 points 
(16-27), and it goes downhill 
quickly from there. Two bright 
spots are the often-injured John
Pitt ties Tartans in final seconds
 HOCKEY, from page 14
 assist when he found Buck 
' through traffic.
 It was 41 CMU and the Tartans had done everything they 
 had wanted to accomplish so far.
1 The third period started out 
; strong, with the CMU defense 
; playing a tight checking game 
j and keeping Pitt off-balance. The 
| refs were watching closely, 
| though, and after CMUs inabil\ ity to capitalize on the power play, 
| the Tartans made a play that 
| threw a major glitch into their 
\ fluidity for the rest of the game.
With about five minutes left in 
\ the third, directly after a Pitt 
J goal making the score 4-2, 
! Ivanovic was penalized with a 
' -five minute major for a butt-end,
which automatically removed 
him from the rest of the game. 
The Tartans would be forced to 
play a man short for the duration 
of the game, regardless of how 
many goals the Panthers scored 
on the major penalty.
In the confusion that followed 
the penalty being assessed, Pitt 
took the puck and put one past 
Kliegman. The Tartans were not 
shorthanded for long, however, 
as a hold called on Pitt in CMUs 
defensive end, plus the verbal 
sparring that followed, sent the 
two teams back on the ice playing 
four on four. Twenty seconds later 
Pitt scored again to tie the game 
4-4.
With 30 seconds left, Pitts Brad 
Rizzo made a cheap run at goalie
SPRING BROKE?
Need some quick cash in lime for Spring Break? H&R Block can help. 
Have us complete your Slae and Federal laxesboth for just $49.00.* 
We can get you your refund in as little as three 
weeks  in plenty of time for Sping Break.
WHERE: STUDENT I INION/ U. OF PITT 
Ne;ir the vending inacliines 
WHEN: FEBRUARY 12,13, & 15 
TIME: 8:00 tun - 6:00 pin
MAKE SURE YOU UMNO YOUR W-2 FORM.
H&R BLOCK
*549.00 fee excludes business returns (Schedule C. E. F) and 1040 NR. Regular fees will apply for these forms. 
Does ineludeelectronicully filed Federal Return.
tv,99oIous
MacLean (15-20-35) and rookie 
Petr Sykora (15-15-30). This 
brightness is eclipsed by former 
50-goal scorer Stephane Richers 
poor 10 goals and seven assists. If 
the Devils are going to go any
where other than the golf course, 
they have to have more produc
tivity from Richer, along with 
streaky Bill Guerin and Valeri 
Zelepukin.
On paper, the Devils future 
looks bleak, but thats quickly 
changing. They are unbeaten in 
the last seven and in 1996 they 
are 8-2-3, compared to 1995s
14-20-4. Look for the Devils to 
make some moves before the 
March 20 trading deadline. They 
already indicated interest in 
Mark Recchi (Montreal would 
love to have Richer back, no mat
ter how big a slump hes in) and 
Chicagos Jeremy Roenick is oh 
the block. The Devils need to boost 
their offense to go anywhere in 
the extremely competitive East
ern Conference.
Jason Andracki is a junior pro. 
fessional writing major. Hed still 
bet his tuitiion on the Devils.
Kliegman, who defended himself 
by wailing on Rizzos head. This 
incited the Pitt coach to riot, hurl
ing comments at the CMU bench 
and the officials, causing him to 
receive a bench minor as well.
The Tartans are still number 
one and undefeated at 8-01 af
ter this weekends outings. They 
face Allegheny at home on Satur
day night, then are scheduled to 
travel to Meadville for a 10:30 
showing against Allegheny on 
Sunday evening.
The fan bus, free with CMU ID, 
will run from Morewood on Sat
urday night at 8 pm, for the last 
home game of the season. Cham
pionships will be the following 
weekend at Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania.
; JOUSING
[ Available immediately 3 bedroom
* apartment, living room, bath, kitchen, 
private porch, laundry facility and storage 
[ space available on premises for quiet,
! serious students, 5750/month. Call 341 -
' 5936 or 733-3002.
: JOBS
1 Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
i stuffing$600 - 5800 every week. Free 
j details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 
! Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 
! 11230. 
ii Wantedl Individual, student organiza!j tions to promote Spring Break. Earn 
j! money and free trips. Call Inter-Campus 
11 Programs, at (800)-327-6013 or http://
1 www.icpt.com.
I Earn S500 - $1000 weekly stuffing 
; envelopes. For details, rush $1.00 with 
i, SASE to: Group Five, 57 Greentree Drive, 
| Suite 307, Dover, DE 19901.
! Alaska EmploymentStudents Needed! 
J Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000- 
i $6,000+ per month. Room and Board!
\ Transportation! Male or Female. No 
1 experience necessary. Call (206)971- 
! 3510 ext. A52361.
Summerbridge information session 
tonight, Monday Jan. 22, 7:00-8:30 pm, 
205 Student Center. Looking for talented 
and diverse college undergrads interested 
in teaching first hand. Opportunity to 
work in over 30 cities nationwide. Paid 
position. Room and board provided. No 
experience necessary, only motivation 
and time to give to students who need 
you.
SERVICES
Money for College!!! Hundreds & 
thousands of grants available to all 
students. Immediate qualification. Call 1 - 
800-270-2744.
Free Financial Aid! Over $6 Billion in 
public and private sector grants & 
scholarships is now available. All students 
are eligible regardless of grades, income, 
or parent's income. Let us help. Call 
Student Financial Services: 1-800-263- 
6495 ext.F52362.
Fundraisers motivated groups needed 
to earn $500+ promoting AT&T,
Discover, gas and retail cards. Since 
1969, we've helped thousands of groups 
raise the money they need. Call Gina at 
800-592-2121 extension x-198. free CD 
to qualified callers.
Math Tutorclear explanations for 
$12.00 an hour-any levelCall 431- 
7795
TRAVEL
Spring Break 1996. Travel Free!! Jamaica, 
Cancn, Bahamas, Panama City, Daytona, 
Padre. Great low, low prices. Free trip on 
only 15 sales. Call for a free information 
packet! Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426- 
7710.
Free Trips & Cash! Find out how 
hundreds of students are already earning 
free trips and lots of cash with America's 
#1 Spring Break Company! Sell only 15 
trips and travel free! Choose Cancn, 
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! Call now! 
Take a break student travel (800)-95-Break
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Saturday
Senditnh
clioenl wihs
Om Horn ApOmHp ornp-OOt
Present your 
student I.D. 
one hour before 
game time and 
you'll jet the best 
available seat in 
the buildins 
for only $15.
Go to the Civic 
Arena 
Box Office at
Gate 6.
For information 
call...
642-PENS
Volume90 
,ImsGC
Sun2/18NY Rangers
Fri2/23vsHartford
Tues3/5vsWinnipeg
Thurs3/7vsOttawa
Sat3/9Hew Jersey
Sat 3/16NY Islanders
Thurs3/21vsEdmonton
Sat3/23vsBuffalo
Tues3/26vsSt. Louis
Sat3/30New Jersey
Thurs4/4vsWashington
Sat4/6vsTampa Bay
Wed4/10vsNY Islanders
All games start 
at 7:30 RM. except 
where noted 
otherwise.
With YmuH Studpnt ID.
(Limit 1 Ticket Per Student - Subject to availability)
oSrfwerC baJgSE etdC oa/S-wM mtw

---------------------------------------------------

PUT CLOUT IN YOUR CAREER
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
Wicket-keeping guru wraps up World Cup picksNBAs all-stars 
dazzle columnist
important role if Pakistan is to 
succeed. However, their form can 
be extremely inconsistent and 
their fielding has often been dis
graceful and has cost them 
matches. However, I can see them 
progressing to the semi-finals and 
possibly to the final. Nothing 
would be better for the Pakistani 
team than to retain its title as 
world champions in front of their 
home supporters at Lahore.
ENGLAND  England has 
made it to four finals and lost 
each time. They have been 
thrashed by South Africa in the 
one-day series, and although 
many Englishmen think that they 
will go far, I doubt it. England is 
full of excuses and until it ac
knowledges its weaknesses, it can 
never improve. Manager Ray 
Illingworth doesnt have a clue 
what he is doing and is always 
chopping and changing players. 
Captain Michael Atherton will 
be vital as an opener if England is 
to progress. Graham Thorpe, the 
stylish lefty, can be brilliant at 
times. However, he can give his 
wicket away easily. Graham Hick 
has finally proven me wrong, and 
he now looks to be an interna
tional-class batsman. He is also 
one of the best slip fielders in the 
world. If Alec Stewart keeps 
wicket, he will not score the runs 
 as this has been the case most 
times when he has been wicket
keeper. Englands best find has 
been Dominic Cork, the 
Warwickshire all-rounder. He 
will be the key player for En
gland. If Darren Gough also per
forms well, then England may 
have an outside chance to get to 
the final. If they perform the way 
they been have lately, they wont 
get past the quarter-finals. And 
yes, I am from England!
SOUTH AFRICA  South Af
rica is the most determined team 
in world cricket. Allan Donald, 
known as White Lightning, will 
find it difficult to extract pace 
from the wickets.in the Indian 
sub-continent, but I still think he 
will cause havoc for batsmen. 
During the recent series with En
gland, South Africa found two 
players with great potential  
Shaun Pollock and Paul Adams. 
Pollock showed that he can fol
low in Brian McMillans footsteps 
as another all-rounder. Paul 
Adams, the unorthodox left-arm 
chinaman spinner with the ugli
est bowling action I have ever
no greater nightmare than his 
fade-away jumper. Add that to 
his Elvis-like pivot action in the 
low post and he leaves any team 
all shook up.
Karl Malone is called the M'ilr 
man because he always delivjers. The man has the soul of  
horse and the body of a Macls 
truck. Never give him the 
chance, because hell put away 
the fast break like nobody else. 
With a touch of grace, Maione 
proves he can do it all.
At a mere 65", Charley 
Barkley simply dominates bigV 
ger players. A double fake clrfc 
the way for his gorilla dunk or 
sets up his big flat-footed jump 
shot. Never has there been such 
an active, ugly, pear-shapecl 
man.
Please see ALL-STARS, page ill
International Sports
by Rahul Aggarwal
The Alley Oop
by Chris CannonWith three days remaining 
-until the greatest show in world 
tricket gets underway, teams are 
itill warming up against local 
opposition as part of then final 
reparation. The opening cerjnony starts on Tuesday, where 
[iss World 1994, Indias own 
(ushmita Sen, appears before her 
taring fans. After that it is non
top cricket until Saturday, when 
he champions of one-day cricket 
[ill be decided. Last week, I let 
bu know what I think of Group A 
% so all that is left now are the 
roup B teams and then the stage 
/ill be set for the teams to prove 
ne wrong!
'PAKISTAN  Pakistan is the 
eigning world champion; they 
eat England in the 1992 World 
!up final. They can be deadly on 
iheir day, as they proved against 
England four years ago. In Wasim 
ram, they possess the best fast 
owler in world cricket. Forget 
Jurtly Ambrose and Allan Donald 
h when this man is on form, he is 
levastating  a class act. Let 
[lone, the fact that he is a leftlander, which makes it all the 
pore difficult for the batsman, 
ie can swing and seam the ball 
|t will and just play with batsnen. On his day he can prove to 
ie a destructive batsman as well, 
ind has often produced matchrinning innings for Pakistan. He 
pens the bowling along with 
)aceman Waqar Younis, who is 
llso an excellent quick bowler, 
fie is famous for his lethal 
pswinging yorker  but when 
hat doesnt work, he can be rather 
neffective. Legspinner Mushtaq 
fthmed has regained his form of 
pur years ago and will play a key 
role on the slow turning wickets 
of Pakistan. Their batting is good 
on paper but has often let Paki
stan down. Inzamam-ul-Haq was 
instrumental in getting Pakistan 
to the World Cup final in 1992 
with whirlwind innings in the 
semi-final. Basit Aliis also a styl
ish batsman and he will play an
There are competitive leagues 
and then theres the NBA. There 
are great teams and then there 
are the Celtics, Lakers, Pistons, 
Bulls, and Rockets. There are 
stars and then there are AllStars. These are the stars that 
make the game; each has his 
own style that somehow makes 
it more than a game.
Hakeem The Dream 
Olajuwon is just that. There is
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Edj.tpr
Health & Fitness
-___________ ______ r r ______________a-r^W^
1 9 9 6 4Q:H&
The Master of Science 
in Taxation degree from 
Robert Morris College.
Tax specialists are in demand.
And the time and place to take 
advantage of this degree of opportunity 
is our special Saturday program at 
Robert Morris College.
Robert Morris is one of the nation's 
leading business specialty schools. 
And the only one in the region to offer a
0Thursday, February 1.5 
10:00am-4:00pm 
&**** Main Gym
Master of Science in Taxation.
Earn this prized degree in only 15 
months, attending Saturday classes. Classes 
are not held during tax season.
Put clout in your career.
Contact Graduate Admissions at 
(412) 262-8535.
ustaF PsaanDCOLLEGE
zEww d8BO0w
Nutrition 
Mind & Body Therapy 
Bike Repairs 
Wellness Information 
AIDS Education
RwQ U-Of 5wdE
Center for Natural Health 
Massage 
Vegetarian Dishes 
Natural Health Information
StairMaster
SPORTS/MEDICAL PRODUCTS, LP.
wKxOV3wRU
Nordic Track (Walk Fit) 
Bikes 
Steppers 
Videos on Treadmills 
Weights
.Dkw'T
zEww f0EwwRORN
Vision/Hearing 
Blood Pressure 
% Body Fat 
Cholesterol 
EKGs
8w3RfUEdUORf
Power Yoga 
Tai Chi 
Ballroom Dance 
Double Step

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 16SPORTS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania12 February 199!
U,mi,n _gt:u1 tmy9_u9 Egaumi 3gmmo9c iou9 Voii
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The hockey club had a hard 
weekend scheduled. The Tartans 
faced Robert Morris College away 
on Friday night and then returned 
to their home ice for the real battle 
this weekend  Saturdays 
match-up against divisional ri
val Pitt.
The team was expecting a tough 
match Friday, as Robert Morris 
had proven to be a fair opponent 
in the first half of the season, only 
falling to the Tartans 6-4. Junior 
winger Ray Ardires hat trick in 
the first period sent Robert 
Morris scrambling for an edge 
against the onslaught on .'-their 
own home ic; When th end of 
the first period showed that 
RMC had been outshot 24-2 
and was being blanked 9-0, 
they knew that they had to do 
something.
The Tartans held the oppo
sition to no shots on goal in the 
first nine minutes, while their 
own offense was averaging a 
goal every minute and a half. 
Junior winger Jim Buck had 
two goals and two assists dur
ing the 17-minute melee. Cap
tain Roger Maddalena racked 
up four assists.
But it wasnt as pretty as it 
looked on the score sheet. Rob
ert Morris was down and dirty 
as-they drove not to the CMU 
net, but into CMU players. 
CMU may be a small team in 
comparison to others in the 
league, but they are far from
unphysical. Sophomore center 
Scott Fitzgerald and freshman 
winger Andy Oxnard both played 
an excellent period, taking the 
body and skatinghard. Fitzgerald 
also took advantage of the scor
ing frenzy in the first, scoring on 
the sixth shift of the night from 
junior wingers Relja Ivanovic and 
Anthony Paul. CMU scored again 
in the beginning of the period off 
another Ardire shot from Buck 
and grad-student Tom Sullivan, 
and the Tartans realized that they 
could relax and simply pad their
Sophomore goaltender Derek 
Jander would go on to his second 
starting win of the season, but 
with so few shots on net it was 
more a matter of staying awake 
than playing tight. He ended up 
with six saves on the night.
By the third period, Coach 
Maddalenas only concern was 
playing quickly and getting the 
teams off of the ice before some
one got hurt or thrown out for 
fighting before the crucial game 
Saturday night. With the Tartans 
up 10-1, the scorekeepers from
plus/minus rating for the rest of RMC were hoping for a surprise 
the evening. appearance from God. The RMC
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer
The Tartans led 4-1 going into the third period, but penalties and a lastsecond goal helped Pitt rally to tie the score.
assistant coach had other ideas. 
His strategy was swearing so 
much at his players and every 
call that the refs made that he 
ended up receiving a bench mi
nor and setting his squad up for a 
shorthanded run against one of 
the best power plays in the league. 
With his sixth goal on the night 
and his second hat trick, Ardire 
smacked the puck into the RMC 
net from wingers Buck and 
Maddalena. It was 12-2 when 
with 55 seconds left to play, 
Maddalena had control of the 
puck on the power play, and he 
scored to add insult to injury. The 
goal, from junior defenseman 
Chris Adukaitis and Ardire, 
made the final score 13-2.
Ardire netted six goals total 
and had a strong three assists, 
Buck came shy of a hat trick 
with two goals, but his unselfish 
play gave him five assists. The 
power line continued, with 
Maddalena having the game 
ender and six assists. Ivanovic 
chipped in a goal and had three 
assists while grinder Paul added 
two goals and two assists. CMU 
had 47 shots on net to RMCs 
eight.
After last weekends decisive 
win over Slippery Rock at home, 
CMU thought that they were 
prepared to face Pitt Saturday 
night. The Tartans had frus
trated Pitt earlier in the season, 
beating them 3-1 amidst the 
insanity of penalties, disqualifi
cations, and player-fan taunt
ing that came from the Pitt 
bench. The Slippery Rock game
showed the importance of the 
scoring power of Ivanovic, the 
two-way skills of sophomore Chris 
Cramer, and the brilliance of jun
ior goaltender Jon Kliegmans
They roll-dodged checks, tooV 
the body to edge men out of play, 
and skated all over the other 
squad. Ardire started a series o: 
breakaways early, shelling the
Elizabeth Kanabe/Tartan Junior Staff 
After destroying Robert Morris 13-2, CMU tied Pitt 4-4.
reflexes. Kliegman said, It was 
great to see the defense playing 
so strong in Pauls (Voulgaris) 
absence.
But Oxnard and Fitzgerald, 
while praising the cohesion of the 
three lines, acknowledged the fact 
that they still were shaky in the 
third period of play. [The third 
period was] not up to snuff with 
the rest of our game, Fitzgerald 
said.
The CMU fans packed the 
stands at Neville Arena in South 
Side for the big match-up. CMU 
was missing freshman winger 
Dino Sanchez, while defenseman 
Cramer was still out with a 
bruised shoulder. But CMU took 
the first and second periods with 
the grace and intelligent play that 
has made them number one in 
their division.
goalie with three shots a period 
The first to slip by was on thsecond Tartan power play of thnight. Ardire, all alone after 
pass from sophomore deferisemat 
Bryan Campo, skated through 
Pitt players to reach the net an: 
tap the puck in, causing pandt 
monium among the fans.
Nursing two bad knees, Bud 
tore up the ice on a scoring drivthat sent the Panthers reeling 
Buck had an unprecedented three 
goals in six minutes, the first o 
which was a shorthanded : 
with the assist from Campo. Twi 
minutes later, the offense \va< 
grinding again, and Sulliva: 
found Ardire who spied Buck opei 
for goal number two. Three mir. 
utes later, on his next shift 
Maddalena racked up anothei 
Please see HOCKEY, page 12
3une9 a,9:uia,vv iu,M smgl9 iAg
By ADAM VINCENT
Tartan Staffwriter
This past week, the Tartan mens bas
ketball teams lost to New York Univer
sity 83-59 and lost a heartbreaker to 
Chicago, 71-68. This puts the Tartans 
at 9-11 overall and 4-7 in the UAA.
The Tartans were in trouble from the 
start of the NYU game. With a halftime 
deficit of 41-24, it was an insurmount
able lead that never got much closer 
than that, leading to an 83-59 defeat. 
Senior Kevin Byrne scored a team-high 
16 points, while senior Jon Blanciak 
added 15 points and eight boards.
This past Fridays game against Chi
cago University was much closer. The 
first half was a bit disappointing for the 
hoopsters. Their shooting percentage 
was lackluster at 36.6 percent and their 
defense looked like they were in trouble.
Inside shots were not falling, but it 
seemed to just come for Chicago, with 
great shooting that led to a 43-29 halftime lead for the Maroons. However, the 
second half proved very entertaining as
the Tartans pulled off a great land. Bodnar also paced the Tartan ofcomebackthat just fell short. The lead fense with 14 points.
began to shift back 
and forth, and the 
Tartans kept threat
ening.
The hot shooting 
of junior Rich 
Bodnar and sopho
more Andy Sofish 
from three-point 
land brought the 
team within one. 
But the Maroons 
made some key free 
throws at the end, 
and the game disap
peared from the Tar
tans reach as Byrne 
missed a threepointer that would 
have put the game 
into overtime.
Sofish played 
well, scoring 10 
points on two-fortwo from three-point
Andrew IVlcDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
Down 41-24 at half time, the 
Tartans got buried by NYU, 83-59.
Byrne contrib
uted 10 points, and 
center sophomore 
Gary Trendel had a 
great game with 
seven points, lead 
the Tartans with 
nine rebounds, and 
had three big block 
shots.
The mens team 
played Associationleading Washing
ton on Sunday at 3 
pm. The Tartans 
have two games this 
week. The first will 
be a home UAA 
rematch against 
Emory University 
on Frida}r at 6 pm. 
On Sunday, the 
Tartans will take to 
the road to face 
LaRoche College.
Lady Tartans edged out by Washington
By ALVIN GAVIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
On Sunday, the Tartans took on visit
ing Washington University in a UAA 
matchup. The Tartans played the de
fending UAA champions tough, but WU 
prevailed 59-50. The lackluster first half 
saw the Tartans shoot 30 percent from 
the field, with WU on top by a score of 
31-23. In the second half, the Tartans 
began to mount a charge. CMU was able 
to pull to within six, 49-43, with just 
under five minutes left to play. At that 
point, Washington Universitys Dana 
Bryant drove to the hoop, scored, and 
was fouled. She made the ensuing free 
throw to complete the three-point play 
and give WU a 52-43 lead. Late in the 
game, junior guard Kristen Kupfer hit a 
three-pointer to make it 57-48, but it 
was too little, too late. Kupfer led the 
Tartans with 14 points and 10 rebounds, 
but had eight turnovers.
The Tartans played against the Uni
versity of Chicago Friday night. CMU 
jumped to an early 1&-13 lead, but then 
U.C made its move. The Tartans saw 
their lead evaporate under the heels of a 
17-4 Chicago run, and the half-time 
score was 30-22, Chicago.
The Tartans shot only 27.6 percent 
from the field, prompting coach Gerri 
Seidl to make some half-time adjust
ments. We tried to get ourselves to be 
a little more patient offensively, she 
said. We thought that we were defi
nitely capable of beating that team.
After the half, the Tartans came out 
and played a more inspired game. 
Kupfer and sophomore guard Marcelle 
Steele worked the give-and-go for a 
basket to make the score 38-30, Chi
cago. Later, senior guard Penny 
Summerville quickly grabbed a missed 
free throw by sophomore forward Katie 
OLeary and scored. After CMU tied up 
a Chicago player for a jump-ball call, 
sophomore guard Jackie Autieri hit a 
three-pointer to cap a six-point run and 
cut the Chicago lead to three, 40-37.
After a exchange of baskets, CMU 
pulled to within two on a basket by 
OLeary. OLeary scored again to com
plete another six point CMU run and 
tie the score at 45-45. However, with 
the score tied at 47, the Maroons went 
on a 10-3 run to open up a 57-50 lead 
before CMU called for a time-out to 
slow things down.
Following the time-out, UC hit two 
free throws to extend the lead to nine at 
59-50. At that point, the Tartans had 
had enough. A baseline lay-up by jun
ior Jessica Connelly made it 59-52. 
Summerville scored to make it 59-54. 
Steele hit a jumper; 59-56. OLeary 
scored in the low post with 2:30 left to
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer
Sophomore guard Jessica Connolly hits 
a jumper against Chicago.
make it 59-58, prompting the Maroons 
to call a time-out to settle down.
After two Chicago free throws, the 
score was 61-58. The teams shot oneand-one, and Chicago missed a freethrow only to get the offensive rebound 
to put the final score at 65-58. The 
Tartans were led in scoring by 
Summerville and OLea.y, scoring 19 
and 10 points respectively. Kupfer and 
Summerville had 11 and 10 boards, 
respectively.
$um9u1 8uov9 _ymionC 
gn mg,s ig fi,nvu1 0yl
From the Point
by Jason Andracki
It seems that the Pittsburgh Pen
guins are going to be the only dynasty 
of the 1990s, and thats only a two-yearlong one at that (1991-92). The 
Edmonton Oilers won their fifth Stanley 
Cup in 1990, and its going to take more 
than Curtis Joseph to put them in the 
playoffs again. The 1993 winner, the 
Montreal Canadiens, are in the midst 
of serious rebuilding' (read: stupid 
trades) and missed the 
playoffs last year for the 
first time since 1970. Af
ter 54 impotent years, the 
New York Rangers 
brought home the Stanley 
Cup in 1994 but didnt 
make it past the second 
round last year. Now 
1995s winner, the New 
Jersey Devils, would 
make the playoffs by one 
point if the season ended 
today.
What happened to the 
team that annihilated the 
leagues top teams like the 
Penguins, Philadelphia 
Flyers, and Detroit Red 
Wings? Has the leagues 
crackdown on the trap 
with calling obstruction 
penalties hurt Jacques Lamaires sys
tem so much? Did the loss of Claude 
Lemieux to the Colorado Avalanche 
and Bruce Driver to the New York Rang
ers matter that much? Were the Devils 
just a fluke? No. Maybe. With the ob
struction penalties, it is not a factor. At 
the onset of the season, referees used 
the obstruction call like a new toy. Now 
the novelty has worn off and its back to 
the status quo. I dont think Lemieux 
and Driver were that much of a factor 
either. Lemieux really only benefited 
the Devils once it came to the playoffs, 
and Driver was a solid but expendable 
backliner. I cant see why these moves 
would affect the Devils so much. The 
possibility of New Jersey being a fluke
is a real one, but not a definite answer. 
After all, they made it to the Confer
ence finals in 1993-94, literally taking 
their season down to one goal in which 
Stephane Matteau scored one of the 
ugliest goals ever in the middle of the 
second overtime period. We have to 
look deeper to see what ails the defend
ing champs.
Goaltending  Since 93-94, Mar
tin Brodeur has established himself as 
one of the leagues premier goalies. 
Although the Devils are lingering 
around .500 play, they are still number 
two in team goaltending. Brodeur is. 
also ranked fifth with a 20-19-7 record 
and a very respectable 2.34 goalsagainst average. In the past All-Star 
game, Brodeur was the only netminder 
out of six to have a shutout. Even 
Corey Schwab is a respectable backup, 
although hes no Chris Terreri (traded
Gabrlen Symons/Tartan Art Editor
to the San Jose Sharks). The Devils; 
problems do not lie in goaltending.
Defense  With the exception of 
Driver, the Devils backliners this st 
son are the same as those who shut 
down the three most potent offenses in 
the league last year. Offensively, Scott 
Stevens (4-16-20) and Scott 
Niedermeyer (5-1520) are perfect a 
the points on the power play, but could' 
still boost their numbers a little. Cap
tain Stevens bounced back from a disappointing season last year, but hes 
not likely to lead the Devils in scoring 
like two years ago. The stat that really 
shows his maturity as a Norris Trophy-caliber defenseman is his 60 pen* 
Please see DEVILS, page

---------------------------------------------------

Sex inspires important issues at CMU
Alcohol consumption acts as aphrodisiac, lessens inhibitions
( UUUUbUD3KbL88w)0)won88LI Vili VT
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
OK, for example, if a girl went 
up to a guy in a bar, and they 
started talking, and then they 
went back to his room. You know 
that its most likely going to 
happen, said Laima Bashir, a 
sophomore industrial manage
ment major when asked about 
the sexual behavior of the aver
age CMU'student.
Despite the fact that CMU is 
composed of thousands of well 
informed individuals, many stu
dents agree that promiscuity 
characterizes the sex lives of 
too many students. I think pro
miscuity plays a big part at not 
just CMU, but at every school. 
Its sort of like people are so 
busy with their lives, they re
ally dont have time to deal with 
having a monogamous relation
ship. Its easier to have a fling 
with whomever, wherever, said 
Dana Heath, a sophomore BHA 
student.
During her four years at CMU, 
Kristen Berrigan found that
many students use little dis
crimination when it comes to 
sex. She said, I know so many 
girls who will just have sex with 
anyone. I think a lot of the prob
lem is that CMU creates a high 
stress level in so many students 
lives. As a result, people drink 
so much and party so hard. They 
get to the point where they dont 
know what theyre doing. 
Many students agree with 
Berrigan in that stress has a 
significant influence on sexual 
behavior. Masturbation 
doesnt relieve all the stress, 
said Tucker Christon, a senior 
Drama major. People need 
physical attachment and go to 
sex to relieve tension. They use 
it to get rid of emotional prob
lems, but it only gets worse. 
Youre regretting it in the morn
ing, asking yourself, Who is this 
piece of scumbag loser in bed 
with me?
Bashir believes that the 
workload and lifestyle of CMU 
students contributes greatly to 
their sexual behavior. She said, 
Thats just how it is in college.
Youre so busy dealing with life, 
work, and friends, you [gener
ally ] just dont have time to have 
a boyfriend or girlfriend. 
Other factors also affect the 
promiscuous play of students 
according to Berrigan. She said, 
There are so few good looking 
girls here. If they were at a 
bigger school, they wouldnt be 
given the time of day, but here 
its like theyre the greatest 
thing since sliced bread. Conse
quently, they run around and 
do whatever with any guy who 
pays them the slightest amount 
of attention.
Emily Chiodo, a freshman 
H&SS student, believes promis
cuity is fostered by the size of 
the universitys population. She 
said, The sex scene at this 
school is a little microcosm be
cause you know everyone in it. 
People are promiscuous here 
because they think that they 
know everything they need to 
know about other people. Its a 
small school. Youre always 
hearing, He used to date so and 
Please see SEX, page L3
all graphics on this page Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Staff
By AMITKAR
Tartan Business Manager
My girlfriend asked me for a 
favor. Amit, she said,Emily 
slept with Qasseem last night 
and she wants you to get Morn
ing After pills for her. Being a 
caring person, I said,Absolutely 
not. Not unless you come with 
me.Im not going to ask for pills 
for my girlfriends friend. They 
wont believe it You see, I did 
not want to be the one enduring 
the Look at the sweet teenage 
couple who had stupid, unpro
tected sex last night stares of the 
ladies at the clinic. On the way I 
wondered why Emily and 
Qasseem had done something 
that put them at risk and wor
ried and inconvenienced others.
Alcohol is a lot of different 
things to different people. To 
some it is a great liberator, trash
ing inhibitions and imbuing cour
age. To others its a pair of rosecolored spectacles, ridding the 
world of all its evil and scourges. 
It makes some people mad, it 
makes others sad and there are 
still others who claim that it has 
no effect on them. But more than 
any other purpose, alcohol serves 
as a social catalyst.
Humans are by nature, gre
garious animals. People are 
sexual, especially when theyre 
young, says Adam Dorr, a sopho
more business major at Arizona 
State University. It is the very
core of our nature.
The problem is that We spend 
a great deal of time and energy 
filtering, modifying and screen
ing our speech and behavior in 
ordinary circumstances because 
our society dictates that sex is 
publicly inappropriate, and 
therefore a very tender and vola
tile subject. surmises Door. A 
couple of drinks changes all that
 when everyone in a room is 
bound together by virtue of being 
inebriated, there are no shackles 
and no straight-jackets and we 
feel as if an entirely different set 
of laws are governing our social 
interaction. Things start to gel. 
says Germain Rebeira, a junior 
international management ma
jor at the University of Oregon.
To many, the predictable course 
taken at social gatherings con
stitutes a game. Will you be able 
to benefit from all the accommo
dating people slinking around 
the place? Will someone who has 
hitherto been completely oblivi
ous to your existence, suddenly 
develop an intense need to ex
change bodily fluids with you? 
To some, it is a chance to take 
their destiny into their own 
hands; Well you see, its just like 
a game of chess. said Mateo 
Willis a student at the Musicians 
Institute in London, as he 
launched into a discourse on the 
strategies one must employ. You 
try to get her to expose her 
Bishop, if you know what I mean.
To the extent that alcohol is 
largely responsible for allowing 
people to do things that they nor
mally wouldnt, it must be said 
that not all instances of sex un
der the influence involves a non
consenting partner. Often times 
people will swallow a couple of 
stiff ones simply to build enough 
courage to make the appropriate 
moves. Unless youre associated 
with someone, you go with the 
intent to hook-up. said Rebeira. 
Alcohol is often the medium 
through which that intention is 
given an impetus. Says Scher 
Foord, an organizational psychol
ogy and design major at the 
University of Michigan, Social 
interaction is everything to do 
with sex. The alcohol just speeds 
it up.
Alcohol also has another 
unique quality  it allows the 
consumer to take on the role of 
the great equivocator. The bat
tery of worries and concerns that 
beat at your brow all week long 
seem to disappear. People who 
have forgotten their problems 
are, at least temporarily, happy 
people and are more approach
able than those whose troubles 
fester in their minds.
The consequences dont mat
ter because everythings alright. 
Lifes great. And then you wake 
up tomorrow morning, your 
condoms burst and your like, Oh 
Fuck!
The issue of regret hangs heavy
over the whole picture. Harriet 
Schwartz, Assistant to . Dean of 
Student Affairs, Michael 
Murphy, and primarily respon
sible for alcohol awareness on 
campus said, I certainly think 
that there is a tremendous dan
ger in making decisions when 
youre impaired... about driving, 
going home with someone you 
dont know or unprotected sex, 
for example.
Freddy Anzures, a sophomore 
design major, makes it clear that 
students on campus are also 
aware of this.  I think alcohol 
helps the social scene here at 
CMU....This is a good thing he 
said. However, though alcohol 
does make people more social, I 
think sometimes that it causes 
people to do things they regret. 
This is a bad thing.
As much as most of us would 
probably love to have a com
pletely guilt-free outlet, there 
doesnt appear to be one coming 
anytime soon. In the meantime, 
college students will continue to 
depend on alcohol at parties and 
other social gatherings to relieve 
them of the baggage of the week. 
Federal studies have shown that 
expenditures on alcohol by col
lege students in the States have 
topped $5 billion annuallycon
siderably more than the Federal 
government gives out in finan
cial aid. As with all things, sex 
and alcohol dont come without a 
price.
Sex on the Internet fails to satisfy users
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
I like sex as much as the next person. Im 
all for free expression. Im a liberal hippie 
commie-love just like everyone else. I believe 
that erotica (not pornography) is a valid art 
form. However, there are three things to con
sider when passing judgment on a source of this 
erotica: quality, quality, quality.
Our trip will begin in some of the more unen
lightened parts of what we call the super-highway of information and advertisements: the 
bboards. I started out locally in graffiti.alt.sex 
where I found what I would expect to find on a 
CMU bboard about sex: nothing. In fact, it was 
three guys talking about masturbation. I moved 
on from there to graffiti.alt.connie.sex which 
recounts the adventures of a gal named Connie 
and her cat. No, folks, Im not trying to be clever:
she has a cat. She talked about her cat. There 
was also someone named Pinkboy lurking in 
Connies life, but he sounded too much like a 
hairless rat to pursue any further.
Next, I trudged on to a source of real informa
tion, clari.news.crime.sex. Nothing randy here; 
just some court cases and a lot about the prob
lems in Japan with Navy men and their missenmasts. In hopes of broadening my outlook, I 
went into netnews.sex.homosexuals. No dice, 
here. However, nude pictures of Tom Selleck 
and the Baldwin Brothers (separate, not to
gether) are available. In alt.sex I found adver
tisements for Web pages, people wanting to 
trade images, and a randy story about Greta 
Rumbel and Ken Shardik. The author evidently 
mistook the short story for the short drama, 
because the vast mtgority of the story was dis
cussion of the philosophical aspects of various 
methods of intrusion.
Please see INTERNET, page L5

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
joium,m1 ,ns 0yviym,v fiysou9 9tmyionoSus a1 -7ff
By CONAL HO
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, the college of H&SS held a 
reception for H&SS students who made 
the deans list. In the Rachel Walton 
Mellon room in GSIA, five students were 
debating the validity of empirical knowl
edge over other means of gatheringknowledge.
One student said he could not buy into 
the literary and cultural studies analysis 
he learned in class. As he stretched his 
arms in gesture, he said it was impossible 
to prove that advertisements for high 
heels infer male domination over women. 
This inference is not scientific and is 
based on opinion, he said.
Another student argued that cultural 
studies is a new way of generating knowl
edge which cannot be empirically proven. 
Although science seems objective it has to 
go through the limitations of human lan
guage, he said.
This example is typical of some of the 
tensions in the English department. While 
cultural studies uses empirical methods 
of finding knowledge, it is subject to 
societys ideologies.
Students who recently took the literary 
and cultural studies (LCS) core class feel 
that these tensions are creating a crisis in 
the English department. They feel that
the English department will be phasing 
out the LCS program.
LCS faculty deny that there have been 
any decisions made to end it.
There is a certain amount of tension, 
said Crystal Bartolovich, an assistant pro
fessor of English. Historically when one 
looks at new forms of knowledge produc
tion and its assault on traditional ways 
of doing things... it is likely to meet some 
forms of resistance.
The resistance comes from understand
ing cultural studies and how it relates to 
the other programs in the English depart
ment, rhetoric and creative writing, which 
produces knowledge differently.
How can we make it possible for the 
three [programs to] co-habitate in a mu
tually affirming way? said Bartolovich. 
At a time when the English department 
has to be more consolidated, for fiscal 
reasons, tensions are likely to arise. 
Bartolovich said that questions arise 
about what counts as legitimate research 
and what counts as evidence in an argu
ment. While these are scholarly ques
tions, it affects pedagogical concerns 
because they lead to disagreements about 
what and how to teach.
In the May 1995 issue of the Minnesota 
Review, the editor for the journal inter
viewed Paul Smith, the former coordina
tor for the undergraduate Literary and 
Cultural studies program and graduate 
literary and cultural theory (LCT) pro
gram.
According to the Minnesota Review, 
Smith said, [C]ultural studies has the 
potential to transform both knowledge 
itself or the forms of knowledge produc
tion, and also the institutions in which 
theyre produced. Cultural studies could. 
.. reform, de-form, or in some ways alter 
our sense of disciplinary knowledge.
[Cultural studies] struggles against 
positivism, empiricism, the instrumental 
rationality of all disciplines, the struc
tures of knowledge which are taken for 
granted in most of the academic disci
plines, especially the social sciences, which 
seem to me at this juncture to be the 
enemy___, he said.
According to the Minnesota Review, 
Smith said that his opinion was influ
enced by his experience in CMU, but also 
because social science has more control 
over public policy-making and govern
mental sectors.
The tension that the cultural studies 
program at CMU are experiencing comes 
from both the university and the English 
department.
Carnegie Mellon is this quite forbidding-purblind-nest of instrumental ra
tionality, technocratic and empiricist in 
character, said Smith. [Another pull 
which is internal comes] from the older 
humanities tradition, which says that 
cultural studies is all well and good, but 
what about the great books?
Cultural studies resists entirely em
phasizing canonical literature which was 
primarily written by white European 
males, said David Demarest, Jr., an asso
ciate professor ofthe English department. 
It introduces a more divese set of text 
such as comic books and movies in order 
to represent different people and culturepeople of color, women and those of sexu
ally diverse positions, he said.
The field of cultural studies are also 
under scrutiny nationally.
There has been a backlash against 
cultural studies, said Demarest. Face it. 
Its a very conservative era and generally, 
cultural studies is associated with leftistcentered politics.
He illustrated with the funding issue in 
the National Endowment for the Humani
ties (NEH) and National Endowment for 
the Arts (NEA) where research grants 
werehese tensions that cultural studies 
are facing at CMU are not new.
Bartolovich said that cultural studies 
has had to struggle for legitimization at 
CMU since its inception in 1985, but
these tensions are not necessarily bad.
To me, intellectual inquiry can be furthered by real different mix of people 
pursuing it. If youre in a place where 
everybody thinks what you think, looks at 
the world the same way you do, youre not 
going to be stimulated to really defend 
your own point of view and to come up 
with rationale for [what you think and 
why your work is important].
Challenges can be productive only if 
people dont feel threatened for being different, she said.
It is not productive, for example, to 
worry about havingyour work discounted 
simply because it does not look the same 
as something produced by a colleague 
whose theoretical frames and methods 
are not your own.
Many LCT graduate students feel that 
signs in recent years suggests crisis in the 
program. They said the faculty in the 
program are not strongly supported. Some 
feel that this was personified when Paul 
Smith was not promoted from his posi
tion. They feel that Smith is a prominent 
person in the field of cultural studies.
At a university that likes to imagine' 
itself as leading and directing change 
rather than responding to it, its baf 
that the English department seems to be 
Please see LCS page L5
zu,m gI fU89 gum9_,sgA9 9up 
vou9 gI 9iysuni9 gn t,Mly9
By REBECCA HERBSTER
Tartan Staffwriter
Sexually transmitted diseases are one of the 
issues that people face when confronted with by 
sex. A misconception about STDs is that people 
only know of them as gonorrhea and syphilis, 
but the truth is thaat there are many other types 
of venereal diseases. Gonorrhea and syphilis 
are not as common as venereal warts (otherwise 
known as HPV), herpes simplex (genital), and 
chlamydial infections.
Most students on campus mentioned herpes 
and AIDS when asked which types of diseases 
did they think of in relation to STDs. One stu
dent, who wished to remain anonymous, said 
she did not know of any STDs other than AIDS.
According to the Allegheny Health Depart
ment (ACHD), herpes simplex is caused by a 
viral infection. Common symptoms are blister
like sores around the genitals, buttocks, and 
thighs.
Chlamydial infections, however, are caused 
by bacterial infections. For men, symptoms con
sist of watery discharge, pain, tingling, and 
burning when urinating. Women usually expe
rience abnormal vaginal discharge. More often 
than not, both men and women experience no 
symptoms at all. On campus, Health Services 
see two to three cases of chlamydia each year, 
which is considerably lower than other universi
ties.
The ACHD defined venereal warts (HPV) as 
soft, fleshy growths which cause irritation. This 
disease is the most contagious of the three listed 
here. Health Services treats two to three cases 
every semester.
One of the problems with STDs is that they are 
hard to detect. People may not know if they are 
infected with a disease because some symptoms 
will not occur immediately. The time frame 
ranges from a few days to months.
Diane Dawson, a registered nurse at Health
Services said, Information and testing are avail
able but they are not being utilized as much as 
they should be. Even though the number of STD 
cases are fairly low here at CMU, students should 
educate themselves because it only takes one 
sexual encounter to get infected.
Sexually transmitted diseases seem to be a 
touchy subject here on campus. When students 
were asked if STDs were something they thought 
about in their life, most were too embarrassed to 
answer and if they did reply, they wished to 
remain unknown. Robert Jordan, a sophomore, 
majoring in Creative Writing said, My concern 
is that when people are hooking up, both on and 
off campus, most CMU students are scared, 
embarrassed, or just dont care to ask if the 
person has STDs. They just dont want to think 
about it. Another student, who wished to re
main anonymous found that STDs are a concern 
because people just go to parties and forget 
about what could happen.
Jordan said, To solve the problem, CMU 
should have a free testing center to encourage 
people to go to make sure they are free of HIV 
and other STDs during Sex Week.
Health Services has been testing for HIV and 
other STDs. Dawson said, In the past week, we 
tested 10-i2 students for HIV and thats good. 
There has been a lot of AIDS testing but very few 
tested positive. Kids are coming in to get tested 
when they begin new sexual relationships and 
thats a plus as well.
Sexually transmitted diseases are a concern if 
you are sexually active. If these diseases go unde
tected, they can cause serious health problems. 
Health Services answers any questions 
confidentially .If you have any concerns and 
wishto speak with a registered nurse, call x8- 
2157. The counseling center also offers its ser
vices to student seeking help. To contact the 
couseling center call x8-2922.
3  8 d
PITTSBURGH
DDITIONAL 10% OFF 
LE PRICES 
BRUARY 12 THRU 
BRUARY 25 
TH STUDENT ID
5401 WALNUT STREET  SHADYSIDE
Technical Writers
OMlmoni 1gym osu,9 
gni_u Agmvs
On campus interviews March 19th
There's a world of businesses with a myriad of print
ing needs, and Printronix is the company they turn to 
for innovate solutions. If you're a high achiever with a 
BA/MS degree, we'll give you the opportunity 
research and prepare Operator Guides, User 
Reference Manuals and Maintenance Manuals for 
state-of-the-art products. Ideal candidates will have 
strong interpersonal and 
analytical skills, and 
work well alone as well 
as part of team.
We've defined the lead
ing edge in printer tech
nology for over 20 years, 
starting with the Line 
Matrix Printer. Today, 
our technology spans 
non-linear magnetics, 
high-speed mechanism 
dynamics, laser sys
tems, graphic architec
tures, logic design, circuit design, ASIC/VLSI and real
time embedded software design.Printronix teams are 
empowered to excel thanks to our commitment to 
R&D and investment in advanced design, manufactur
ing and office automation tools. Come join us as we 
design, manufacture and market the fifth generation 
of our Line Matrix technology.
We'd like you to attend our Information 
Session on the evening of March 18th to meet 
with Printronix personnel. You can also 
arrange an interview appointment through 
your Campus Placement Office. Or send your 
resume to: Manager of Employment, 
Printronix, 17500 Cartwright Rd., Dept. CMU, 
Irvine CA 92713. Fax: (714) 660-8682. E-mail: 
bilanchon_bo@printronix.com Equal 
Opportunity Employer.
PRIIMTROIMIX
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciencees (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon University is 
available with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The 
PGSS is a five  week summer school for extremely talented high school 
students from Pennsylvania. Teching Assistant/Counselor appointments are 
available in the areas of biology, chemistry physics, computer science and 
mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophmore year by the start of 
the program. Preference will be given to applicants with outstanding aca
demic records. You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory 
counselor and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that 
the PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct program and social activities.
Stipend for fiveandonehalf week period: 
$1200$1600 
(Depending on experience) 
Free room and board. 
PGSS is in session from June 30 to August 3. 
Counselor duties begin June 26, end August 3.
Applications are available in Mellon Institute 271.
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 2686669.
Application Deadline: March 15, 1996.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996L3
foC wl mutgCnoSus gn t,Mly9
ANNEMARIE DEVINE
far tan Staff writer
Its official - there is a new 
'raternity in the CMU greek 
ommunity. Last month, the 
jiterfraternity Council (IFC) 
sroted to officially recognize 
3igma Phi Epsilon.
Sig Ep first came to campus 
the fall, when representa
tives from the national fraterlity started recruiting mem
bers. This original fall rush 
period brought 26 founding fa
thers to the 
)MU chapter.
During official 
pring rush, Sig 
recruited 
even new memjers.
Many brothers 
joined because of 
the difference be
tween Sig Ep and 
other fraternities 
and the thought 
jf being founding 
fathers of the frafernity. The 
idea of no hazing 
and pledging 
originally drew 
me in, followed by 
the ability to build a new frater
nity, said Doug Brady, senior 
and president of the chapter. 
One-tenth of one percent of ev
eryone in the fraternity system 
gets to be a Founding Father.
 Vice-president of recruitment 
land sophomore Phil OHara 
said, I never saw myself as a 
fraternity guy at all. Ive made 
good as friends with [the 
jjrothers] as I have my whole 
time here [at CMU].
What I found when I joined, 
said Brady, was a awesome 
group of guys whom Ive be
come good friends with.
Sig Ep was recently recog
nized for having the highest 
average GPA of all the fraterni
ties on campus, even higher 
than the average of all males at 
CMU. Said Burke, This shows
people got involved and still 
kept their grades up.
One of the many things in 
which Sig Ep differs from other 
existing fraternities is methods 
of recruitment. They are con
stantly seeking new members 
and hold recruitment activities 
all year long. According to 
OHara, some thought this was 
Sig Eps way of getting around 
the dry rush period. He clari
fied that the national frater
nity will take away a chapters 
charter if there is alcohol at any
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
recruitment events and has 
strictly enforced this rule.
Another difference is Sig Eps 
parties. They are strictly in
vite-only and BYOB. The fra
ternity provides no money to 
buy alcohol for the parties. So 
far, parties have been held at 
brothers residences.
They are applying for spe
cial interest housing so every
one can live together next year.
They do not want to have a 
house on the quad, said OHara.
[Not being on the quad] sym
bolically shows were not the 
same as the fraternities on the 
quad.
SigEp also participates in the 
activities associated with the 
entire Greek system. They are 
planning a Monopoly booth for 
Spring Carnival and will be
pushing buggy with Fringe. 
They will also be participating 
in Greek Sing with Kappa Al
pha Theta.
Other activities have included 
community service with Habi
tat for Humanity, paintball, 
dodge ball games, and going to 
CMU basketball games as a 
group. Said OHara, We want 
people to take pride in the 
school.
The IFC has been supportive 
of having a new fraternity in 
general and Sig Ep in particu
lar. According to 
Paul Burke, IFC 
Rush Chairman, 
More chapters 
with more 
people involved 
means more op
portunities for 
interested stu
dents to find 
what they are 
looking for in 
the Greek com
munity.
To be recog
nized by IFC, a 
new fraternity 
goes through an 
initial proba
tion period. 
When the time comes for a vote, 
the fraternity presents what 
they have done so far and what 
they hope to contribute to the 
CMU community and IFC. Then 
the council gets to ask ques
tions about anything they might 
be unsure of. During this pro
cess, said Burke, On both sides 
of the discussion there did not 
appear to be any doubters. Ev
eryone was fully in support of 
the new chapter.
The next challenge for the 
brothers of Sig Ep is to get their 
national charter. This entails 
having 62 members or being in 
the top 25% of all fraternities 
on campus in terms of member
ship. They have to double their 
membership, and will be hold
ing recruiting events in order to
Womens Expo 96 brings people together to protect, discuss rights
CRACKING THE MYTH
B y Amber Benezra
Last week
end 3,500 
women and 
men gathered 
in Washington 
D.C. for Expo 
96 for Womens 
Empowerment, 
the first ever
National Feminist Exposition. I was among eight 
Carnegie Mellon students that attended this 
multi-generational, racially diverse historic event. 
The weekend consisted of non
stop symposiums, roundtable 
discussions, and training semi
nars on everything from wel
fare to women in sports. Over
whelmingly, it was a reaffir
mation of feminist values and 
visions; an inspirational three 
days in a time where, women, 
the poor, people of color, the 
elderly, children, and gays and 
lesbians are under attack by 
the Republican Congress.
According to Eleanor Smeal,
President of the Feminist Ma
jority Foundation, the mission 
of the Expo was to come to
gether, at this time of crisis, when affirmative 
action for women and minorities and laws prohib
iting sex and race discrimination are under at
tack. At the dawning of a new millennium and a 
technological revolution which is changing work, 
education, communication, virtually everything 
as we know it, we will reframe our nations debate 
on the federal budget. As our nation sets its 
priorities through the budgeting process, we will 
provide a gender perspective. We will focus on 
women, children, the needy, the elderly, human 
services, economic and social justice, the environ
ment, and the quality of life for all.
Despite popular media portrayals, the feminist 
movement is not dead, nor is it made up only of 
middle class white women. This was evident at 
the Expo, where Feminists Are the Majority 
and Equality in the 21st Century were signifi
cant slogans. During a speech at the General 
Assembly, Marcia Ann Gillespie, editor-in-chief 
of Ms. Magazine addressed problems within the 
feminist movement, and solutions for divisive
ness. Communication within the movement, as 
well as recognition of different perspectives, and 
social contexts is crucial. Gillespie also pointed 
out that although the majority of participants
were white, many women of color did not have 
the resources to get to the Expo. Nonetheless, 
the interests of all women, including welfare 
mothers, Black, Asian-Pacific Islander, Native 
American women, and lesbians were represented 
and acknowledged.
Many pioneers of second wave feminism, in
cluding Gloria Steinem, Charlotte Bunch, and 
Merle Hoffman interacted with younger femi
nists. An open discourse between veterans of the 
feminist cause and college student was solid 
evidence that feminists are bridging the genera
tion gap. Helen 
Reddy, singing 
her 1972 hit, I 
Am Woman had 
3,500 people on 
their feet and 
feeling empow
ered.
The issues pre
sented at the 
Expo demon
strated how in
clusive feminism 
is of all social is
sues. Sympo
sium titles 
ranged from, 
Developing a Feminist Federal Budget, to Mo
bilizing the Womens Vote, to The Rise of the 
Feminist Sleuth, Feminist Mystery Writers. At 
times it was almost overwhelming, discussions 
touched upon: poverty, human rights, violence 
against women, the global economy, environ
mental protection, health care, education, art, 
technology, and affirmative action. The 299 co
sponsors of the Expo set up booths in an exhibit 
hall; distributing information, giving access to 
the Expo on-line, making feminist books and 
music available, as well as active-participation 
booths, such as the self-defense demonstration.
Accordingto the 1995 National Womens Equal
ity Poll, 51% of women identify themselves as 
feminists, 75% said they support equal rights for 
women, and 82% believe the womens movement 
is still improving womens lives. In this time of 
a return to traditional values, and an assault on 
all essential social programs, it is encouraging to 
know that feminists are_ the majority, and that 
women will not go back.
Amber Benezra is a senior Literary and Cul
tural Studies and Creative Writing major and 
minors in gender studies..
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Editor
accomplish this by October.
Sex raises various considerations for students
SEX, continued from page LI
so.This makes people think its 
OK to be promiscuous. They 
already are aware of everything 
and everyone who has been in 
the persons life.
Christon, however, believes 
what students dont understand 
is that everyone here has had a 
life prior their stay at CMU. He 
said, You are so at risk sleep
ing around with people here. 
Dude, its like college. You dont 
know who anyone was sleeping 
with before. People here are 
from all over the world. 
Though a great deal of stu
dents believe promiscuity runs 
rampant throughout the stu
dent body, others have put a 
little more faith in the discre
tion of CMU students. Kareem 
Key, a sophomore Civil Engi
neering major said, I think 
theres more sex happening on 
jampus then people realize, but 
really think the majority is 
safe about it. There are enough 
people who are dangerous and 
Promiscuous, but a larger 
amount of people take the necry precautions. I guess if 
you're smart enough to go to 
CMU, youre smart enough to 
Use a condom.
Heath, on the other hand, is 
wary of the amount of prudence 
students practice before having 
6ex. She said, I think most 
People have the if it feels good, 
it attitude. I think that ev
eryone is aware of the risks, but 
they dont really do anything 
toout it. They worry about con
tacting an STD or getting preg
nant after the fact.
It seems that when safe sex 
does become a concern for 
women on campus, it usually in 
fear of pregnancy rather that 
STDs. People generally have 
the misconception that sexually 
transmitted diseases dont hap
pen here, said Chiodo. Its like 
AIDS doesnt happen here or 
something. People are unaware. 
They subconsciously feel that 
because theyre here, theyre 
protected from getting any
thing, but statistically and re
alistically speaking, its here. 
Said Christon, I dont think 
people are concerned with 
STDs, but birth control - yes. 
Its used by a number of my 
female friends. Unfortunately,
there are people with STDs. I 
know people with STDs and 
they are not happy now. They 
have many regrets because they 
didnt protect themselves. 
Many students believe that 
protection and birth control are 
not major concerns of enough 
sexually active students. Bashir 
said, I think people in serious 
monogamous relationships are 
using birth control, but people 
who simply have flings with 
other people arent concerned 
so much with it.
Key said, I think protection 
is an individual concern. Im 
sure it comes up with two people 
who are in the relationship to
gether, but it doesnt really come 
up among the everyday talk of
guys. Its more of a concern of 
people who are in a serious re
lationship.
Despite this fact, people will 
continue doing exactly what 
they choose to do in terms of 
safety, finds Heath. She said, I 
think by the time people are in 
college theyre old enough to 
not be swayed by peer pressures. 
They can make their own deci
sions.
Students with questions and 
concerns about sexual issues, 
emotional or physical in na
ture should call CMU Health 
Services at x8-2157 or the 
Counseling Center at x8-2922.
CD TRADER
...the small store with the BIG selection
Trade in your unwanted CD's New CD's at 
discount prices 10,000 new & used CD's 
50 categories of music 
Listen to CD's before you buy
Alternative  Blues  Classical 
Jazz  New Age  Oldies 
Pop/Rock  Reggae  World
201 South Craig Street 
Monday  Friday, 10 a.m. - 6 p.m. 
Saturday, 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
Sunday, noon - 4 p.m. 
phone: 687-6626 Fax: 934-5414
American Heart 
Association,
It Doesnt Take A Math Major 
To Reduce The Coefficient of Drag to .31
Wdns 8g Oi Qoi_ d jgi I fi1vu6X
Toyotas Affordable Sporty Fun Car.
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.U5Ud
I Love Whai You Do For Me
Medical miracles start with research
L______________________________

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
VovCmoM,Cu ig _gv1 v,ns on9lomu9 9iysuni im,uvvum
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Contributing Editor
Ive had a hard time explaining my trip 
to Israel to those who askI say, it was 
amazing and leave them hanging, partly 
because amazing sums it up and partly 
because I havent found the words yet.
Israel, the concept, is still sinking in.
For about eight days over winter break, 
I explored Israel with nine other college 
newspaper editors from across the coun
try. We werent exactly roughing itthe 
American Jewish Committee paid for us 
to tour Jerusalem Tel Aviv and the Golan 
Heights. We saw Yad Vashem (the Holo
caust memorial), spoke to right-wingers 
at a settlement in Efrat, covered our
selves with therapeutic mud at the Dead 
Sea, hiked Masada, met members of the 
Likud party at the Knesset, and talked 
with families at a kibbutz (communist 
settlement) on the Sea of Galilee. We 
crossed the green line and came back..
But the trip was not a vacation. It was 
a working, educational seminar. We were 
there to learn first-hand about the ArabIsraeli conflict; to talk to Zionists, Pales
tinians, politicians, immigrants, Hassidic 
Jews, soldiers, Bedouins  
to everyone with a viewpoint.
Basically I was given the 
chance to attain knowledge 
about a situation I have only 
read about, and a struggle I 
had mixed and abstract no
tions of. The seminar in Is
rael literally opened my eyes 
to a culture of conflict.
When I heard I would be 
going to Israel, the first thing 
my mother said was dont 
get on any busses and dont 
take any packages. I laughed it off, then 
I realized the stigma behindit. The Ameri
can media has made the Middle East 
mythical  it is a terrorist, war-torn 
wasteland. But it is nothing of the sort.
Israel is beautiful, alive and safe. It is 
modem and thriving. Israel, which is the 
size of about New Jersey, has a capital 
economy comparable to the United King
dom. I guess visiting Israel and meeting 
its people is the only way to get a sense of
Lauren Heinz/Tartan Cotributing Editor the reality behind it.
Israel is also a land of mixed meta
phors. I realized this the second day I was 
there when our bus pulled into Bethlehem, 
which had just been returned to the Pal
estinians about a week beforehand. Large, 
floppy evergreens were tied to telephone 
poles and peppered with bright, bulbous 
Christmas lights. Colored posters of 
Yasser Arafat in his military garb were 
strung across the streets. In Bethlehem 
Square, near the Church of the 
Nativity where Christ was bom, 
a gigantic 10x10 foot sheet with 
a spray-painted portrait of 
Arafat was draped across the 
white wall of a building. Arabic 
signs with Christmas greetings 
hung in store windows.
Israel is a way of thinking 
it is a cataclysm of religious, 
political andhistorical emotion. 
I have never experienced a cul
ture of people who were so pa
triotic; no matter what side of then issue 
they were on. It is hard to ignore 4000 
years of biblical history, to stand in the 
spot where was Christ was crucified and 
not to feel somethingthe Zionist move
ment is not that far-fetched. The strugg]e 
is ongoing and remembered, there have 
been numerous wars in Israel over terri. 
tory since they gainedtheir independence 
in 1948. Land, autonomy and religion are 
the idioms through which everything 
seems to get processed. The debate is 
the tip of everyones tongue and it j$ 
fierce.
While America (since colonization) isa 
relatively young country and we have our 
own conflicts, I dont think we have that 
spark, that fire within us that makes 
want to fight for a homeland. More to the 
point, most Americans dont know their 
nations history; they cant name their 
Senators and dont vote in elections. Ijj 
Israel, students my age knew so much 
about their country, they argued in the 
streets, in each others faces, about cur
rent events. They had opinions.
Lauren Heinz is a senior double major
ing in anthropology and rhetoric.
wplumountus :,1,:um mutuou9 lglyv,m mulyi,iogn gn t,Mly9
IN THE SPOTLIGHT
by Dan Rosenberg
It is difficult to find someone 
who is the best in a particular 
area at a school like Carnegie 
Mellon, yet Mitch Kotula is one of 
those people.
When told that he was consid
ered by many to be the best 
kayaker on campus, Kotula re
sponded, Its kind of funny; you 
can call me that because there 
arent that many people who do 
it. Im glad if people see me that 
way because maybe theyll call 
me and I can teach them to kayak. 
I love to teach it.... you cant pick 
it up on your own; its really hard
to get into.
Kotula, a senior in mechanical 
engineering, has only been 
kayaking for a short period of 
time, but is already riding class 4 
rivers. In kayaking, rivers are 
classified according to their level 
of difficulty, ranging from 1 for 
calm waters to 5 for the most 
challenging rivers. He was taught 
the sport two years ago by his 
younger brother Clark and has 
loved it ever since. Kotula said, I 
like the rhythm...going over 
rocks...the motion is so compli
cated that you dont have time to 
think about it, you just have to 
pick up the rhythm of things. 
Although he does not kayak 
during the winter, Kotula hopes 
to resume his favorite outdoor 
activity at the end of March, per
haps over spring break. He said, 
Youre out there. You have a
great time. Its a great feeling to 
do the river, finish it, and beat it. 
Kotula also enjoys the bonding 
experience that occurs when a 
group of individuals go kayaking 
together. He said, The sport re
ally reminded me of the feeling 
you get from being in a group and 
doing something like that. 
Kotula is a member of the Three 
Rivers Paddling Club, an organi
zation that consists of kayakers 
and canoers not only from Penn
sylvania, but also from bordering 
states such as Ohio and West 
Virginia. Although the club does 
not have many young members, 
Kotula stated that he enjoyed 
spending time with the middleaged men who make up the bulk 
of the organization. He said, 
Theyre totally nice to hang out 
with and talk to.
Although Kotula has consider
No strings. 
No attachments.
OK, maybe just one. Visit our web site and register to win.
www.envelDp.CDm/edu/cmu
Brought to you by the creators of Envelop Engine, 
the FREE, 32-bit, visual, object-oriented, Windows 
development software.
The best things 
in life are free.
able talent in this sport, he ad
mits that he has made some er
rors in judgment. I did some
thing really dumb, he said, re
ferring to the time he went 
kayaking with a group of novice 
acquaintances on a foggy night. 
One of his friends hit a rock and 
tipped over. He was pretty beat 
up, but then we got out and ev
erything was all right.
In addition to kayaking, Kotula 
spends a lot of his free time en
gaging in other outdoor activities 
(namely running), reading, and 
spending time with friends. He 
travels regularly, and he has been 
to every continent except Antarc
tica. His personal time is limited, 
however, by his demanding 
course load.
Dan Rosenberg is a freshman 
H&SS undeclared major.photo courtesy of Mitch Kotula
Owwr/n (fie, Pizza/
Oakland/Shadyside 
443 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hirinq delivery people.682-7272
PAPA,We accept Visa/Mastercard
BTP Mwm Jbrgd 
ldghP BTP ySeesTh
$7
95
Additional toppings $1.50 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
yS MEm ldghP 
BTP ySeesTh
BTP MEm ldghP 
BTP ySeesTh
I
One 14" Large 
I One Topping & An 
I Order of Breadsticks$11 I $6! $7
l o JJti:__!_l i___:___C
99 i
+ Tax i
Additional toppings $1.25 on each I (Mon. - Thurs. 1 lam-4pm, 9pm-dose) I 
pizza Not valid with any other . Additional toppings $1.25 each 
coupon. Valid only at participating | Not valid with any other coupon | 
stores j Valid only at participating stores j
Additional toppings $1.25 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
.J

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996L5
fup gnvonu so9,llgoni9 9iysuni9 ,i 03x
INTERNET, continued from page LI
Looking for something a little different, I chose an animal theme 
for this leg of my journey. Alt.sex. bears involves the love of randy fat 
boys in leather. Alt.sex.bestiality featured a story called Puppy 
Licks. Alt.sex. breasts was a flop: there was very little of value. In 
fact, there was very little of value, on any of these sources. Saddened 
but determined to press onward, I left the bboards and went into the 
world of XXX Live Girls!
Using some of the resources I found in the bboards and Lycos, I 
found quite a few little haunts where the seedy, moist underbelly of 
the Internet might lurk. I began at a place called the Sex Mall. 
Instead of a Baskin Robbins and a KayBee Toys, I learned that you 
had to send money in order to see naked people. I then surfed to a 
place called Chubby Cubbies. Lets just say that there are some 
relatively husky men in various states of undress on this page.
Bondage was a favorite topic on the World Wide Web, as well as 
graphic pictures of various organs. However, there were a few 
groups left out of all the hoopla. Gay and bisexual men were well
accounted for. However, there was a noticeable dearth of lesbian 
resources. While there were support groups and womens organiza
tions, according to my resources, lesbian sex on the Internet is 
relatively non-existent. Along the same lines, women in general 
have no personal sex pages, at least from my research. There are 
pages by women about sex with men. There are pictures of women 
and women. But, like much of the web, there is little quality. Go 
figure.
The worst Ive ever seen...is a girl in a bikini on someones screen, 
an MMP CCon said, during my search for true depth and breadth of 
the nefarious Internet porn. There seem to be very few midnight 
net-crawling in the clusters, and, as the CFA CCon said, None of 
that happens in here. Most of the people are pretty mature.
These pages seem to be made up of secret societies of lonely males 
who get bored too easily. You might say that sex is simply too easy 
to get; believe me, its not. Anything too racy is relegated to the 
equivalent of pay-per-view on the net. Without a password and $20, 
you cant get anything worth writing home about.
No smoking in clusters infringes upon columnist
FOCUSED ON THE INTERNET
___________By Kenton Shaver
Well, I see that the 
Internet censorship ban has 
slithered out of Washing
ton on the backs of those 
little government Repub
licans. Wonderful. Tassed 
the stage of deliberation and 
is now manifest. Strangely, 
this has a plus side for the 
student body: relief from 
 cluster crowding. Unless Computer Accounts will soon be presenting the 
i hackproof account replete with universally unguessable password, having 
\ your account hacked into brings you terrifying criminal liability, so many 
future students just arent going to take the risk of having an Andrew 
account.Speaking clusters crowding, let me advocate another free remedy 
^ for itcluster smoking. I enjoy it. But then I enjoy breathing the smoke of 
: burning, Autumn Westmoreland County leaves, where it is legal to bum 
' themj. More important, others here enjoy smoking, too. Not so five years 
First hand I can tell you that there was almost no smoking at CMU 
t back then.
Damn, how deprived we were. But you can hardly blame us for not 
inhaling those cool fumes after seeing the like of an American Lung
Association-sponsored commercial showing a fetus, still in the womb, 
smoking a cigarette while an announcer urged pregnant female viewers 
not to smoke. Spooky. And the commercials of the famous actor, Yul 
Brynner, best known in his role of the King in The King and I, didnt help, 
either. Ayear after Yul died (50ish), a clip of him that he had recorded while 
on his lung-cancer padded death bed was also shown on national commer
cial TV. What did he say? Along the lines of Dont smoke. It killed me. 
Scary stuff. I breath a heavy sigh of relief that we have other actors like 
George Bums, now over 100 years old, to balance such anti-fume-sucking 
rhetoric as Yuls deathbed plea. Of course, Ive never seen George light that 
cigar of his. I wish he would. It would ease my mind.
OK, sugar flavored carbonic acid (Colas), will definitely destroy com
puter equipment if spilled, but what if you upset an ashtray on your 
keyboard? Turn it over and shake it, crisis over. Maybe the cigarette stain 
on a plastic molding, a few negligence fires, but no down side.
Besides, now that there are no games in cluster, hows a body to unwind? 
And our childhood friend, Joe Camel, might spit and bite if we dont. Or was 
that Joe Cow? Joe Cartoon Character, anyway. Who else can better 
euglogize incessant carcinogenic fume inhalation than the non-existent. 
So, for a better tomorrow, smoking in the clusters now!!
Kenton Shaver is a senior English major.
MTOimaKiad
Uun9ogn ayovs9 on joium,m1 ,ns 0yviym,v fiysou9 VmgCm,M
LCS, continued from page L2
moving away from cultural stud
ies, said John Epeijesi, a doc
toral student of LCT.
Some graduate students feel 
that they may not be able to 
complete their program at CMU.
We dont want to say that the 
only interest are graduate stu
dents, but they cant be forgot
ten, said Eperjesi. People have 
invested a lot of time and effort 
in the program, but they cant 
progess without having faculty 
to work with, he said.
Having completed his Masters 
at CMU, he went to Florida State 
University.
When people [from Florida 
State] knew I was from CMU, 
they rolled out a red carpet, he 
said. The chair of the English 
department was wondering why 
I would leave CMU. Everyone 
knew [CMUs] cultural studies 
program was good. In 1993, 
Eperjesi came back to CMU to 
continue his doctoral studies in 
LCT.
At graduate conferences, 
Epeijesi realized the high qual
ity of the LCT program at CMU.
[GJraduate students are con
stantly asked to reflect on what 
theyre doing - grad work, intel
lectual work and being in the 
academy. These are hard ques
tions that people dont always
think of. That makes our work 
stronger.
The undergraduate LCS pro
gram is also unique, said 
Kristina Straub, assocaite head 
of the English department.
Its been more typical to as
sume that undergraduates are 
not sophisticated enough to 
think reflexively about their 
reading and writing practices, 
and that they couldnt think of 
the theory of reading and writ
ing ... We didnt think thats 
true. Undergraduate students 
are plenty sophisticated to think 
about what theories are used in 
their interpretation of a text.
Budgetary constraints in the 
English department are height
ening these tensions.
Some faculty members have 
left the department for other 
jobs, but due to fiscal constraints 
they could not be replaced, said 
Straub.
Some English faculty mem
bers were getting soft money or 
grants from outside sources to 
fund their research and salary. 
Since this source is almost ex
hausted, a part of the 
departments budget is allocated 
for faculty salary and resources 
which limits money for hiring 
new faculty members.
34
99
8]
Finest Quality Long-Stem Red Roses, Gift-Bootedwith Greens, _ __Baby's Breath, Compare at *50 - $75
c Bow'4 mw*' Half-dozen. .21.99
BLOOMING PLANTS. BOUQUETS. & OTHER GREAT GIFT IDEAS'
PlantiTlowerIW > I 55 pjju  I 
BLOOMFIELD: liberty Ave & 38lh St.
t,vv 681-3503
12. SYRACUSE 
IPBRD
HONG KONG
h or hfe)IF)i 
Fs NsRa p)aa
" VmgIu99ogn,v ,ns voaum,v 
,mi9 tgym9u9
" Oniumn9_ol9 Aoi_ 
oniumn,iogn,v IomM9
" Um,uvonC 9uMon,m on
kuo?onCc
f_,nC_,o 7
-gnC !gnC
" On9imytiogn on wnCvo9_
" 0_onu9u v,nCy,Cu 
tgym9u9
" dIIovo,iogn Aoi_ i_u 
xnoum9oi1 gI -gnC !gnC
" Uun 9t_gv,m9_ol9 
,,ov,avu Igm I,ov
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
lnenDnsI s(IFaI)FnsI)C 
masia)yD htas)f 
dd1 .R/Rf heIR 
Ara)/RD2 c, Nsa9 dxggkgdw3
1-800-235-3472
DIPA@SUADMIN.SYR.EDU
Geniuses
Wanted.
Why not start your career at the world's 
leading independent software company?
Right now. we're looking for program
mers to develop support and enhance 
systems and network management, data
base and applications development and 
business application software. Initial train
ing involves a dynamic 5 I 2-month 
program that will immerse you in key 
industry technologies and CA's 
technology strategy Candidates 
should have both an educational 
and a practical knowledge of C. C~; 
UXIX. MS-DOS 'Windows and 
networking technologies.
Benefits include generous 
compensation packages, 
including 401 (k) and profit 
sharing, company-paid
health and medical coverage, corporate 
fitness centers and tuition reimbursement. 
Ability to relocate is a must.
Call us todand find out why 
CompucemvrldsM CA was the best place
to work in the
entire computer Xssoc' 
industry!
fiOMPUTER " -------1 ATES
Software superior by design
For More Information, Please Write, Fax Or Call:
Computer Associates One Computer Associates Plaza lsiandia,HY it 788-7000
Tel: 1-800-454-3788
Fax: 516-342-5737
Or visit: hilp: www.cai.com
Computer associates
1005 vS.eRrPg Hnnsasdrvn ossrVV Islandia. 3I ssgraN 02I 
All product names referenced herein are trademarks ol their, respective companies. Kqnal opportunity, employer M I' P V
t

---------------------------------------------------

<8*J
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
I HAVE. DISCOVERED 
THE CAUSE OF YOUR 
PROJECT DELAYS.
SOMEBODY IN THIS 
ROOK IS A PIECE OF 
DEAD WOOD PRETEND
ING TO BE A 
CONTRIBUTOR!
HEY, I MADE 
SOME CALLS
)If m
WATTING FOP.
I TOLD YOU THIS PROJECT 
COOULD TAKE A YEAR. 
BUT ON M.Y OBJECTIVES 
YOU SAY I MUST HAVE 
IT DONE IN THREE
WHICH OF THESE REASONS 
BE5T DESCRIBES WHY:
A. YOU HAVE GREAT 
CONFIDENCE IN ME.
B. YOU THINK I PADDED 
MY ESTIMATE.
WE DON'T 
REALLY NEED 
THE PROJECT. 
IT'S JUST A 
WAY TO 
KEEP RAISES 
I OL
ALICE,
! THESE 
DOCUN 
IN YC 
---------iYOU'VE GOT 
PROPRIET 
^ENT5 YOL 
UR CUBICL
0 LOCK UP 
\RY 
HAVE 
.E.
!. \ 
T~r
i=3\
1 JUST FEL? 
A LITTLE 
DIP IN /AY 
MOTIVATIONdU
IT PROVES I'M BETTER 
AT SETTING OBJECTIVES 
THAN YOU ARE AT 
ACHIEVING THEM.
WHY IS IT THAT THE 
PEOPLE WITH THE 
LEAST NEED FOR 
STORAGE SPACE HAVE 
THE BIGGEST 
OFFICES'?
I KNOW! YOU'RE USING 
YOUR OFFICE AS KIND OF 
A LIVING MONUMENT TO 
INEFFICIENCY!
IS THIS 
BECAUSE I 
WOULDNT 
LET YOU GET 
A FILE 
\ CABINET?+j >
"WHERE WOULD I 
PUT IT? fAY 
CUBICLE IS FaL 
OF STACKS OF r 
PROPRIETARY 
DOCUMENTS.
1 1
I HAVE TOO MANY 
PASSWORDS IN MY 
LIFE. WHAT IF I 
FORGET THEK?
YOU'D LOSE YOUR JOB! 
YOU WOULDN'T BE ABLE 
TO WITHDRAW MONEY OR 
CHECK. PHONE MESSAGES'. 
YOU'D BE DEAD IN A 
WEEK !!
THAT WOULD
HAVE BEENOH,YEAH,
A GOOD TmETHAT'S A
TO BELOT OF
QUIETLYFUN.
SUPPORTIVE;(
DOGBERT.r Y 
] i\4
m
MISTER BOFFOby Joe Martin
fittp/Avww. wisenet.net/users/boffo/bofio.htm
f toe sapcest 
THIM6IMA 
ELTlON-IlP 
WMEhJ OJLV 
ONE R^TME 
T1UPcL&
iwe. Pi CD
BfeAT.

---------------------------------------------------

6-tntftb 7AE#r$U?(> . or.jpCLOSE By HOME TyRE VOMRYWIZE
sonSf egedr
omAoiA
VOLUME HVE, N0.'pwp.
"Wey, MiSpocetrvxTv 
affllp PAVE WHVTgto \ Keep tpvih^ to
C)(pLAiM To you, AtO 
AVlFM IMVA610W 0i>T 
DoEiMT f'T >MTo 
MV 56HtPU(, g\6v\T 
. MOW/
Unfortunately, Brad had neglected to stretch his 
brain before taking the big algebra midterm.
CLOSE TO HOME TyRE VSByYWIyE CLOSE By HOME TyRE HAMRYWIyE
LOOK, I'VE GoT A U>T 
OF PW**W-PltoBlBte 
tt> oEALWITH R\mr MOW/ I rt\<SKT rtoT BE. 
REApy f>p. yEAfciAre you sure? Studies have shown that holding 
and caressing animals can dramatically 
speed a person's recovery!"
CLOSE By HOME TyRE VNMRYWIyEG CLOSE By HOME TyRE HARYWIyE
You can take our standard retirement 
package, or you can trade it for what 
Carol has behind door No. 2."
More and more wedding parties are 
opting for Silly String over rice.
s

---------------------------------------------------

OUT-TAtCES!CLfiV t+ie DRfWft by Shawn C. Knight
NAC.UOS
fFkdkcy P.U-Of i)OU FEEL uess haiEgTu aUa youft. 
NEW SCHOOL UdlFoRhA'?/'
|Jy jJ _ H|>CL1yFUMWEL CAKE
\6 BU*$
MO ^HAWlES
I LOVE BtlNG,
b cm
StUDEt^Ti>6G0
 1996 Shawn C. Knight  Send email to shawn+@andrew.cmu.edu
"I'LL BE JUDGE-, I'LL BE JURY,"SAW CUNNING OLD 
FURY; "I'LL TRY THE WHOLE CAUSE AND CONDEMN 
YOU TO DEATH."
-LEWIS CARROL, "ALICE'S ADVENTURE'S 
IN WONDERLAND'9mmFirnis
EPISODE IS
DANIEL fAUGER
poN<r waKRvT 
_J W gdr 9, > 
y'F,V F _HiiJe 
9i H 89_W' B= 
IJVy fH iJ fvA 
\ TOWELS'
/TtPh EiR rvuE lFkcytT eTt. U-t 
cyiO,pi 3i EOPt Ok 3EOG Ae3ETiirM
D9y 'B_ HYW 
_J |A0 M_BA yB iB 
y'Hy&4 _J iB6(y 
JIJ6 'HIJ H 
v =BBy,H91 o
/ 96yFl IJ(Yl ,sbr9JV
f THat everyone i.se
'H, lJ=y y'J ,yH)F9jV 
my'J6 _J WH6 &96 B9y 
B6yB y'J =F Jl i H6i 
K ZFWZ =MJliAk0H9, H6i \ STUFF) S
#38 1996 Nicholas Casciato, Jr.
zSR Bwmbh O EeP m e 
'H6)x, boH moVSyPe Pt.T
ZJWH9J B= zB9V
~/0H, SUCH HEAVENLY GLORY.r
THE TIME IS NEAR. AT 
 THE STRIKING OF 
MIDNIGHT THE EARTH 
.. SHALL BE CLEANSED OF
lot-- ,bylll tyA -brelll a 
i / .-ti gf*
VAU&ER-1SAs RAL^H LAiSU) TPAE^ ~\t> OfZ^A'Ji-tE: 
M^oeP-'pPri^ oi/eiLuJog.^ei) LODLBYKNy5K0O, 
.6" Ml-O^eES 1D294 __________________
WAIT a MiNuTE  A-C You TO-ittiG To 
SPrV THftT v*>AUST7iET
Pcl,<-0 (vH^> VlM/l? ,  --------------------------------- ^
Mi S^ST
(loTe-yeesTS AT / rntyE) llTJ jW 
y-GPcfiT ? / j^yff
...IN flfE FEDERAL CoURT 
5. Kwt-/vm EMfusVeES Ae ^
FCC HfAlKl, TftVlsit TO STbP TH 
SfPrnoN^T^EOVER gy Ty tegp
V* You REftLuy THIMK 
rBr WH6 ,yUi y'F,4
,^(>1 ^o^5CVjtHte9
ORGAKlI
3Hof of mIoN m SR;V c0Se3 
|Nb*PfOVno jJ^1y H|nJ6Wo J, s 
evmusTET) To fr^ffiecT us 
&>{(=> nST^ESS Kppaues
To sftewc omT pQg
'HteIfyou'v M/VtJ (t>y 
------------____________SfH'/ |M6>.. 
qVyw 5J y'J sw:J7Ag k"*,f_jJo1y 
my'Hy rmw2gU uep| Avjh..
Gop /2-uess "PE(ie>aL<:Ti0i0; 
LAtJv) Twtyr i uje[ y

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 90, issue 16 _______________________________________________The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 12 February 1996 I
Cupid Misses Vniversity: CO\iV dating scene struggies
Women need more sweet lovin
By TRACEY ODELL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
As Valentines Day approaches, 
complaints by the males on cam
pus as to the lack of available 
females are increasing. It seems 
with the shortage of females that 
there should be no reason for a
Diana Bartolotta/Tartan photographer 
Evelyn Gracoff and Damian Bierman cuddle.
girl to be alone this Valentines 
Day, but this doesnt seem to be 
the case. Just ask girls what their 
plans are for the big day. Typical 
responses are homework, hang
ing out with friends, or studying 
for a test. No one mentions a 
romantic evening with someone 
special. Its easily arguable that 
it is only one night and too much 
emphasis is placed on the whole 
day. Sadly, the lack of social ac
tivity on February 14 is indicative of the stagnant dating pool at 
CMU.
Trying to reason the lack of an 
active dating scene, Martha 
Cross, a junior architecture ma
jor, attributes it to the small cam
pus size where one isnt meeting 
a lot of new people. Others, not 
quite so demure, comment that 
quantity does not necessarily 
mean quality, especially when it 
comes to the opposite sex. Per
haps, these girls are just bitter 
about their less than idyllic plans 
for this
Wednesday 
night so, for 
arguments 
I sake, lets say 
there are chicos 
out there for all 
these single 
chicas. Where 
does one meet 
| them?
Typically, 
most girls meet 
their future 
dates through 
friends, but as 
Natalie Lee, a 
sophomore bi
ology major
to find someone. Freshman 
Esther Park, CIT undeclared, be
lieves it is difficult to really know 
what a person is like when they 
are intoxicated, as people often 
are at parties.
Sororities also provide social 
opportunities. Junior psychol
ogy major Susan Klein says mix
ers provide the 
chance to meet 
other people you 
normally wouldnt 
meet.
Things may 
sound a little glum 
for all the singles 
on campus, but 
what did they re
ally expect to find 
at college? Na
ively, freshmen 
seem to believe 
that the absence of 
parents, their cur
fews and the addition of a few 
thousand new faces would some
how lead to an active social life. 
This seems to be a typical atti
tude. Lisa Don, a freshman in 
H&SS undeclared, met her boy
friend during orientation, but she 
is an uncommon case. Most spent 
their first semester deep in the 
throwes of a social nightmare. 
Those with boyfriends at home 
slowly began to waver in their 
devotion as they were tempted by 
the new guys they met.
Some (both those with and with
out significant others far from 
Pittsburgh) took the whole no 
parents, no curfew thing a bit 
too seriously and tried to date as 
many guys as possible in the 
shortest amount of time. Still oth
ers just decided to lay low and 
wait for their prince charming to 
be introduced to them by a mu
tual Mend. Unfortunately, most 
are still waiting. Now that their 
second semester has begun, many
might want to try. Its obvious 
there are lots of single guys and 
girls on campus. The problem is 
getting them to meet. The most 
logical advice may be this, get 
out and meet people. Sure, there 
is that whole cyber dating thing, 
but its rumored to be much bet
ter in person.
Dating at CMU 
is a topic that is 
met with
Men search for romance too
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Personnel Manager 
& KENNETH J. KRAEMER
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Lets put it into CMU terms. 
For the male, dating equals 
stress: See that, a nice easy equa
tion.
Whether liberal or 
^ conservative, most
a&ree
7 6) d
Diana Bartolotta/Tartan photographer 
Lisa Marinacci and Jeremy Lewit are lip-locked.
points out, eventually you meet 
all your friends friends and no 
one is left.There are other places, 
of course. With a new semester 
come new classes and the oppor
tunity to meet a special study 
partner.
There are always extracurricu
lar activities, parties, and ran
dom encounters. The fraternities 
offer an opportunity to socialize 
at their parties, but often the 
circumstances are less than ideal
freshmen have changed their at
titudes about dating to a more 
reserved, casual approach as they 
join their upperclassman friends 
in waiting. Dating isnt that im
portant anyway, right? Besides, 
it takes away from valuable study 
time.
Well, just in case anyone is in
terested in finding a date, maybe 
not in time for Saint Valentines 
Day, but maybe by Saint Patricks 
Day, there are some things you
rolled eyes and 
laughter be
cause, in 
many peop
les opinion, 
it is virtu
ally non
existent.
The diver
sity of the 
student 
body can 
even be con
sidered a det
riment when 
it comes to 
dating. Af
ter all, how 
many
Gabrien Symons/ Tartan Art Editor
drama majors date computer sci
ence majors? Also contributing 
to the problem is the lack of 
unity on cam
pus. A lack of 
campus-wide 
social events al
low cliques to 
stay cliques and 
discourages the 
mingling of stu
dents who nor
mally never run 
into one an
other. Probably 
the biggest im
pairment to the 
appearance of a 
dating scene 
here are the 
negative, anti
social attitudes 
of the students. The situation 
may be less than ideal, but com
plaining doesnt lead to changes. 
As this so-called day of love ap
proaches, maybe it is time to 
reevaluate our social attitudes 
both as individuals and as a 
campus.
Be a little crazy this Wednes
day. Send that Valentine or 
make that phone call. You have 
an excuse for being social  
dont waste the opportunity.
women s move
ment has made 
the dating 
ritual all the 
more stress
ful. In the 
past, it was 
simple: pick 
out a 
woman you 
like, club her 
overthehead, 
and drag her 
away with 
you. Well, 
somewhere 
along the
line, someone had a problem 
with all that, so we get the stress 
of verbal communication.
It would seem that despite the 
so-called equality of the 90s, 
men are still expected to do the 
asking. While women may have 
to deal with the possibility of 
never being asked out, at least 
they dont have to deal with di
rect rejection. Take the follow
ing scene for example: the man 
says, Hey, wanna go out? Then 
the woman says, With you? Are 
you trying to make me laugh? 
Then the man will usually come 
up with a line like Oh, pardon 
me, allow me to go shoot my
self.
Its not easy to call a woman to 
ask for a date: You dont have 
the advantage of observing the 
womans facial expression when 
you ask, so you dont really know 
how she is reacting. When you 
finish wading through your own 
stutters and insignificant Small
talk, you have to deal with some 
poor excuse. You know the ones: 
Im busy that night, or what 
was your name again? or my 
cat has a hernia and will be 
having surgery that night, or 
even didnt I tell you to go shoot 
yourself? Now you find your
self actually having pity for her 
poor imaginary cat, and you 
shrink into a wallowing, shamed 
excuse of a man.
Whats worse is when she actu
ally says yes. This opens up a 
whole new can of stress worms. 
The proper balance of politically 
correct etiquette and revived chiv
alry is nearly impossible to at
tain. Should the male open the 
door? Pay for the check? Always 
offer to drive? Offer to split the 
fee for birth control? Give out his 
email address on the first date? 
The point is that there is a lot of 
confusion floating around the 
boys head. Just picking a date 
event can cause many an anxious 
moment.
Just what is there to do on a 
date? Bowlingstupid. Ice skat
ing  embarrassing. Dinner  
expensive. Renting a cruise ship 
and sailing on the Three Rivers 
 aw, its been done. Taking a 
hot air balloon ride 
to Ohio too chilly.
Well, theres the 
movies. Again  
stress. Does the 
male decide what to 
go see? What if hes 
already seen the 
film that she really 
wants to go to? He 
can pick an action 
flick, but then he 
seems like an insen
sitive macho jerk.
He can pick a 
fluffy romance, but then he 
seems like a slimy, manipula
tive jerk just trying to get her 
in a mood. He can pick a car
toon, but then he just seems 
like a jerk. Oh, the worries.
Worries, that is, if the guy can 
get out the door. Women often 
think that men just dont put 
enough effort into their appear
ance, but half the time men spend 
getting ready, is spent trying to 
look like they werent trying to 
look like they got ready. 
Comprende? Do you wear the tie 
and risk looking like a stuffy prep, 
or do you go with the denim shirt 
and chinos and look like a bad 
model out of a trendy mail-order 
catalog? And then theres the 
worst of all possible situations. 
You opt for the medium-casual 
look, say, jeans and a nice polo 
shirt. When you see your date, 
you instantly realize that you
ion changing so quickly, espe
cially in formal and casual suits, 
the choices are many and compli
cated. For instance, suppose you 
wear your new retro-alternative 
silvery-iridescent jacket and your 
equally stunning leather slacks, 
and your date turns out to be an 
animal-rights activist. Truthfully 
folks, dressing to kill is no treat 
for the guys, either.
The goodnight part sucks and 
everyone knows it. To kiss or not 
to kiss, that is the question. If so, 
what kind of kiss? You can go 
with the safe, sweet, innocent 
peck, or try a little spit-swappin, 
and risk a swift crack on the 
cheek.
If, in fact, you do kiss, then 
what, and who decides? Not all 
men just want a quick roll in the 
bay, you know.
Some women sure can put a lot 
of pressure on a fella sometimes 
 back off ladies, really! Men
Diana Bartolotta/ Tartan Photgrapher 
Javier Sanchez and Nancy Ramsey beat the 
CMU dating odds.
have emotions, too. What if both 
parties are ready and willing to 
enjoy each others company fur
ther, but neither expresses it. 
Then you and your leather pants 
end up going home alone, even if 
shes not an animal rights activ
ist.
Supposing the date is perfect; 
everything goes swell, the kiss 
was heaven-on-earth, and the 
restaurant food was the best you 
had had in your life. Then what?
Another date? Another after 
that? You find yourself in son 4 
amorphous commingulation of 
two people with no good label to 
describe their activities together. 
Are you  dating (you can be 
with other women), seeing (you 
can maybe look at other women), 
an item (you may be doomed, 
now; dont even think about other 
women), or the relationship (other
women dont even exist). The 
miscom-municated the scope of truth is, men want a label  
the plans when you said I want some clear concise definition of
to take you out to dinner. She is 
dressed to kill in her finest dress, 
and you, dressed for a fine evening 
of bowling, feel like swan-diving 
into Panther Hollow.
Whats worse is the standard 
female misconception of how easy 
it is to be a fashionable young lad 
of the 90s. How many times have
the status of where they stand 
with their Aphrodite of the mo
ment. Unfortunately, these comfy 
labels are a thing of the past.
Dating and relationships are 
hard enough to deal with, and the 
high-stress CMU atmosphere 
.doesnt help matters. Ickiest is 
the temptation to forgo the askyou heard from a young lady men ing dilemma by using email. This
have it so easy  they dont have 
to match their dress, and shoes, 
and coat, and this and blah blah 
blahmen just have to throw on 
a suit and theyre done. Au 
contraire, my friends. With fashis right out  social suicide. Be
sides, it would make you a big 
dork. A bit of advice, gentlemen, 
dont even think about using 
email to make your first move; 
roses still have their magic charm.
Kissing dos and donts: Students share smooching nightmares
By AMANDA SPEAR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Kissing is popular. Everyone 
likes kisses from friends, rela
tives and that elusive boy or girl 
that sits in front of you in Stats. 
There are different kinds of kissfriendly, passionate, slimy, 
sweet, drooly ... you get the pic
ture. Kissing is a good topic of 
conversation, especially if you 
haventsmooched in a while. 
There are all kinds of myths surrounding kissing. My mother told 
that when she was in junior 
high there were girls who thought 
you could get pregnant from a 
french kiss. Ah, theres a thought 
'to use the tongue or not? Huge, 
e&mest discussions came out of 
this branch of kissing talk when
I was in seventh grade. We all 
swore it was gross and wed never 
do it. Promises are made to be 
broken.
Is the first kiss always the worst 
kiss? Many of those polled gave 
me a huge affirmative. I know 
that mine was. The boy morphed 
into a Saint Bernard when he 
kissed  drooling all over my 
face. Kara, a senior that works 
at the information desk, hates 
kissing these rainforest boys. 
She said, You feel like you need 
an umbrella when you kiss them. 
Travis Dacolias, a junior psychol
ogy major said, I dont like the 
ones that evelope your whole 
face.
So, what could be worse than a 
sloppy kiss? How about bursting 
into fits of uncontrollable laugh
ter while smooching that special floor of Hunt (not eager to give 
someone. A girl, nick-named her name) said she liked it when
Laughin Liza, giggled 
helplessly and 
made it impossible . 
for
people joked and 
giggled during kisstheguyto  
kiss her. Nervous laughter was a
ing be
cause Usually
common kissing theme. people are all serious and trying
A young woman on the fourth too hard.
Mike, a senior who was remark
ably open with me (okay, okay, 
hes my boyfriend), commented 
on his former girlfriend who was 
a narcoleptic. Wed be making 
out and shed just fall asleep or 
want to take a nap.
All the time. She was a tired 
person, I guess. I can vouch that 
it wasnt his fault, but dont tell 
him I told you that
A pair of girls from my home
town, best friends, were once dat
ing boys who were good friends. 
The boys planned out their kiss
ing maneuvers  get the girls 
over to Dans (not his real name) 
house, feed them popcorn and 
watch a sad movie and then com
fort them ... by kissing them.
We, oops, I mean, they, were in 
eighth grade, not exactly a slick
time in anyones life, and ner
vousness abounded. At the key 
moment, Lisa (a pseudonym) got 
a real gusher of a bloody nose. 
Those boys never did get any that 
night.
Kissing, in early Christian 
days, was seen as a way to be 
closer to God, according to Nicho
las Perellas The Kiss Sacred and 
Profane.
Kisses were meant to be a way 
to transfer love  and those 
monks didnt mean the physical 
kind.
Poets often write about love 
and hence kissing.
John Keats in his Endymion I 
wrote: The mere commingling of 
passionate breath, produce more 
than our searching witnesseth ...
Please see KISSING, page Lll

---------------------------------------------------

Student Organization 
Budget Information !
------------------------------------------------------ 0 
Budget Packets will be distributed on-line this year. As of February 1, 
you will be able to pick up your budget packets over the AppleTalk 
; network (see instructions below).
The budget form should be completed and handed in over the 
AppleTalk network by
Wednesday, February 21 at midnight.
If you wish to submit your application ori disk, the disk must be taken to
If * %i/~ * x i -g /'*%Mary Jo Rudman in Student AfcdlfiTIy Wednesday,
: February 21.
The major change to the budget packet is ari essay entry about your 
organization's present and future activities. In addition, non-operating 
expenses such as a computer will need to be justified in the essay section.
v:;;'
A member of the Funding and Recognition Committee will contact you 
to discuss your budget. The Funding and Recognition Committee will 
send a budget form with its proposal to you after considering your 
organization's budget by the week of March 11. On the weekend of 
March 16-17, any organizations that want to appeal their budgets can meet 
with the Funding and Recognition Committee. The Student Senate will 
consider the budget resolution on Tuesday, April 9.
Computer Access Instructions
1. Find a Macintosh and open the Chooser (top left corner).
2. Select the AppleShare icon (top left window).
3. Select Doherty Apts as the Zone (bottom left window).
4. Select MasterMind as the Computer (top right window).
5. Press OK, then enter 'Budget' as your user name.
6. Enter the password as 'Packet'.
7. Exit chooser, and click on the Brenden's HD icon from your 
desktop.
8. Click on the Budget Applications folder to open it.
9. Find your organization's folder, and copy the budget 
documents from the folder.
10. Return the completed application to the same location.
Questions? Comments?
Contact Brian Mueller at x8-2115 or send 
email to bm38@andrew.cmu.edu.
Funded by your party-hat wearing Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996Lll
i
If you want to get away from it all this winter, Aratrak' is the way to go. Especially when you can save 15% off awesome getaways with the 
Student Advantage Card. Call 1-800-96-AMTRAK to get your card. And, take your pick of cool places, hot spots and hundreds of other 
colorful vacation destinations designed to take your mind off the winter blues. Pick your destination now and call your travel 
agent or Amtrak for reservations at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Winter getaway seats are limited so call today 
while the gettings good.
All prices are one wav, based on round-trip coach (are with 15% Sludenl Advantage Card discount. Fares are based on availability and are subject to change without notice. Seats are limited. 5CCTN-3
Additional charge lor First Class or other accommodations. Other restrictions may apply.
One-act operas sing to sounds of success
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Two of Gian Carlo Menottis operas 
are being performed by the music de
partment of CMU at the Antonian The
atre at Carlow College. These two op
eras are The Telephone, a delightful romp 
with a romantic couple whose relation
ship is becoming rocky due to Mr. Bells 
little invention, and Amelia Goes to the 
Ball, an opera about a woman with a 
one-track mind.
Both of these operas are directed by 
Peter Frisch, the new head of the CMU 
Drama Department. Under his direc
tion with the coaching of Producer Thom 
Delventhal, the casts of both operas give 
impressive performances that are wor
thy of the roaring rounds of applause 
that came at the Saturday evening per
formances, which I had the good fortune 
of attending.
The first of the one-act operas was The 
Telephone. This opera has two charac
ters, Lucy, played by Christina Farrell 
on Feb. 9, 17 and Melanie Vaccari on 
Feb. 10,16, and Ben, played superbly all 
four evenings by Robert Fire. Lucy has 
an unprecedented affinity towards the 
telephone to the point that she becomes 
physically upset when a wrong number 
reaches her. Ben, who is trying to over
come an incredible case of shyness, is 
trying to propose. He is foiled at every 
turn by the telephone. The story has a 
happy ending with Ben actually liking 
the convenience of the telephone. Both
of the students in Saturdays perforthe plight of Amelia, played by Danielle interrupted by her husband, played by 
mance did a splendid job. Hermon on Feb. 9,17 and Tami Smith Michael Fuller, who demands to speak
I was very impressed with the fact on Feb.l 0,16. All that Amelia wants out toheralone. He tells her of his findings 
that the two characters managed to pull of life in this particular opera is to go to of her lover and demands to know who 
off the one-sided conversations so well the ball. She spends the first part of the he is. She agrees to tell him on the
without losing 
any of the 
operas integ
rity. The 
songs, many of 
which are done 
a cappella, are 
nice, flowing, 
funny, and 
easily under
standable, 
which accord
ing to my past 
experience is 
slightly odd for 
an opera. The 
lighthearted
ness of the en
tire opera
gives it the 
credibility that 
it needs to rise 
past the level 
of the
audiences expectations.
And, it also 
had the short
est curtain call that Ive ever seen.
Then, a quick fifteen minutes after 
intermission, youre seated again for the 
start of the second one-act opera, Amelia 
Goes to the Ball. This opera deals with
Bill Vandermark/ Tartan Staffwriter
Tami Smith (Amelia), Robert Fire (The Chief of Police), Erika Olden (Friend) star in Amelia 
Goes to the Ball.
opera getting ready with her friend, 
played by Erica Olden, who had one of 
the better costumes of the evening, and 
her two chambermaids, played by Dana 
Bhatnagar and Rachael Gates. She is
condition that 
they can go to 
the ball. The 
husband is duly 
persuaded and 
learns that the 
man upstairs is 
the lover. He 
says that he is 
going to go up
stairs and shoot 
the lover, and 
when he re
turns, they can 
attend the ball. 
Amelia does not 
want her lover 
to be shot, so she 
places a quick 
call to him and 
he appears on a 
rope outside the 
window on the 
balcony.
Amelia lets in 
her lover, 
played by Erik 
Winger, and he 
immediately starts to convince her that 
she should elope with him that evening. 
She tells him that she will gladly go, just 
not tonight. All she wants to do tonight 
is to go to the ball.
The husband then returns and con
fronts the lover. They end up talking 
things out and ignoring Amelias re
peated requests of going to the ball. She 
in turn hits the husband over the head, 
rendering him unconscious. This turn of 
events leads a chorus of townspeople 
and the chief of police to arrive. The 
chief, played by Robert Fire, wants to 
get to the bottom of the matter. Amelia 
explains that her lover did the dastardly 
deed, and he is taken away in handcuffs 
proclaiming his innocence.
Amelia then begins her sobbing and 
whining about how she can no longer 
attend the ball. At this point, the chief 
offers to take her and all is well at the 
end, at least for Amelia. Full of comic 
highlights, this opera, although vastly 
different from the first, was just as de
lightful.
When asked how he felt the operas 
had gone, Peter Frisch replied, Any
time that you have four outstanding 
ladies in dual roles, its a treat.
Each one brings something of their 
own to the character, and I let them go 
their own way. I think that the show 
was very successful, and Im looking 
forward to next weekend.
The operas will be performed again at 
the same place, The Antonian Theatre 
on the Carlow campus.
Tickets are $5 and the show starts at 
8 pm on both Friday and Saturday 
nights. Believe me, they were well worth 
the price of admission, and Ill be there 
again next weekend.
Um,gvi, 9_ggi9 ig :ovv on Broken Arrow
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
I dont know whats scarier; 
the fact that there are missing 
nuclear weapons, or that it hap
pens so often that theres actu
ally a term for it.Right up front, 
let me just say that this movie 
rocked!
What: Broken Arrow 
Director: John Woo 
Company: Twentieth 
Century Fox
So, if youre looking for a bad 
review this isnt it. Now, by the 
time that this quote is heard 
youre already along for the ride. 
You know people and plot and 
you are holding on for dear life. 
Broken Arrow, the actual Penta
gon term for a missing nuclear 
missile, is 96s answer to 94s 
Speed and 95s Die Hard With a 
Vengeance. And believe me it 
answers them quite well. Writ
ten by Graham Yost, the same 
writer for Speed, Broken Arrow 
takes you on a non-stop wild ac
tion romp through nowhere. 
Okay, maybe its not nowhere, 
but it is a vast deserted park with 
miles and miles of open country
side. Not exactly the best place to 
hide if youre running from a 
crazed John Travolta. Yes, 
Travoltas the bad guy. His part
ner, played by Christian Slater, 
to use all of his resources to 
beat him at his own game in a 
race against all odds, a time-clock, 
.certain nuclear destruction. You 
name it. This movie had every
thing in the way of action se
quences.
From a B-3 stealth bomber, a 
slight stretch of the imagination 
from the militarys current B-2 
bomber that is used to
day, to the unused elevator in an 
old abandoned mine, this movie 
develops a plot that is so unbe
lievable that it could actually 
happen. It leaves you with the 
feeling that even those who are in 
charge arent quite trustworthy. 
That doesnt leave us with much 
hope for those who arent on our
side.
This movie isnt all shoot-emup, testosterone pumping, bad 
guys trying to kill the good guys, 
though. Samantha Mathis, whos 
no stranger to Slater (they costarred in Pump up the Volume), 
finds herself in the role of peace 
and nature loving park ranger
 Twentieth Century Fox 
John Travolta is Vic Deakins, a pilot that masterminds nuclear extortion.
Terry Carmichael. Shes got a 
heart of gold, but boy can she 
shoot. And, her fight scenes with 
Riley Hale, Slaters character, 
bring some interesting turn
abouts in the movies plot. In 
fact, when this movie was over 
the one thing that I wanted to do 
was enlist in the same park ranger 
school that she attended. 
She was better trained 
than some of the soldiers 
in the movie. However, 
this slight bit of 
unbelievability doesnt 
even pop up because it 
never has the time.
Broken Arrow never 
stops. There isnt a break 
in the action for a second. 
Whether theyre building 
tension in the boardroom, 
or being dragged under 
trains the characters in 
Broken Arrow take you 
along for the ride, and in 
this case it isnt.a bad 
thing. Whether youre up 
in the air or at the bottom 
of a mine shaft, this is the 
movie you want to see over 
and over. Oh and, Please 
dont shoot at the thermo
nuclear weapons.
CMU students divulge 
their kissing secrets
KISSING, from page L9 
He credits kissing withcreating weather and pretty stuff. 
Go to the library and do some
thing besides study  read for 
pleasure  if you want to know 
the whole poem.
Oddly enough, girls were more 
forthcoming with kissing info 
than boys were  perhaps the 
boys were scared to expose 
themselves Jessie explained the 
tonsillectomy kiss to me: See, 
there are these people who try 
to stick their tongues down your 
throat, choking you and shit. 
Like they want to take your 
tonsils out! Paul Jones, a jun
ior civil engineering major said, 
I hate feeling choked like when 
they try to lick your tonsils. 
Ralph, who spoke due to 
omonytimnity, had a story about 
getting caught. She was my 
first girlfriend and we were kiss
ing on my couch in the family 
room, really kissing hard. And I 
thought no one was home. Later 
my dad comes up to me and is 
like Way to go son! I felt so 
dumb.Okay, not exactly what I
had in mind. One kissing re
lated question that I could not 
get answered, which has been 
plaguing me for a long time and 
was refreshed in my head when 
I saw Kids again, is why straight 
guys are so hot to see two women 
kissing... whats up with that? I 
mean, seeing two guys kissing 
would lead me to believe that 
they werent interested, in my 
gender and Id look elsewhere.
Kissing is crazy and mysteri
ous and awesome, no matter 
who is doing ita friendly kiss 
can make your day more than a 
merely lust filled one. Although 
lust is nice. Very nice. I think 
everyone should give and get at 
least one kiss a day, on the 
cheek, on the hand, on the lips, 
on the knee, anywhere. Public 
kissing is nice, as long as no one 
yells Get a room! at you. Kiss 
long and kiss well.
Oh yeah, that first kiss I had? 
He told everyone I was a bad 
kisser. He was the drooler , 
and he did that tonsillectomy 
thing too.
FBBM MINNEAPOLIS 18FIIM rOITLAND TO
LAS VEGAS870
YOU DONT HAVE TO DRINK TO RIDE DRUNK.
Medicine can affect your balance, co
ordination, and vision as much as 
alcohol. After drinking or taking med
ication, dont ride.Thats c 
the best safety prescription.' 
MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION^

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996
Bed of Roses plants doubts
 New Line Productions
/ Mary Stuart Masterson and Christian Slater star In the storybook 
.'romance, Bed of Rose s.
By APRIL C.MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
I have three words: Christian 
Slater vehicle. If you are looking 
for a movie with an overly sim
plistic plot, little character devel
opment, and lots of sexy shots of 
Christian Slater, this movie is for 
you. If thats not what you are 
looking for, skip it.
What: Bed of Roses 
Director: Michael
Goldenberg 
Company: New Line 
____________Cinema
From first-time filmmaker 
Michael Goldenberg, Bed of Roses 
is the story of Lisa Walker (Mary 
Stuart Masterson), a workaholic 
ataNew York company. One day 
she receives some bad news about 
an old guardian of hers who died 
back in her hometown of (hoo
ray!) Pittsburgh. She holds her 
emotions in until shegetsback to 
her apartment, where she cries 
in front of the window.
The next day, she receives an 
anonymous bouquet of flowers 
delivered Lewis Farrell (Slater). 
At first we are led to believe that 
Lewisl is just a delivery boy and 
nothing more, then we consider 
that he is a crazy stalker who 
spies on people, and then we find 
out that he is no less than Mr.
Right. He saw Lisa crying in her 
window and decided to woo her. 
What ensues is a storybook ro
mance that progresses with little 
conflict or struggle.
One of the main problems with 
this movie is the lack of character 
development in Lisa. Apparently, 
she has alove-neurosis that stems 
from the shady relationship be
tween her and her ex-guardian. 
Through the course of the movie, 
however, we never really find out 
what it was that made her so 
skittish.
Was she molested? Beaten? 
Forced to carry a Care Bears 
lunch pail to school? This miss
ing link in her life is problem
atic, for the movie is supposed 
to be primarily about her. The 
tension that should stem from 
her past is missing from her 
relationship with Lewis, mak
ing the plot overly simplistic.
In most of her roles, Masterson 
proves herself a very gifted ac
tress. This time around, her 
character has so little person
ality that she is unable to show
case her talent. Lisas main 
trait is nervousness, an act that 
becomes tiresome within the 
first half of the film.
And just when it seems like 
everything has already been 
done a million times, Bed of 
Roses plays on the cliched trope 
of roses and love. Roses are
UAg i_yMa9 sgAn for Voii lv,1
By_ALEX LEWIN tumes are neat, but once youre
!35SrJ.an Staffwriter finishedlookingatthem,youhave
no choice but to sit through the 
3; knew Clytemnestra was in labored, choppy, and altogether
-trouble from Orestess line to 
jgjectra in the opening scene: 
JjSjjsh my matted hair away. I 
ggi&iot see. The problem is that 
SBS Orestes (Joel Lee Kulp) hair 
SSs neither matted nor in his 
In fact, it 
m m e r e d 
;with dried hair 
and looked 
ijggte meticu&&?ly Styled.
:!^Jie play is 
j32ashi SuzukTs adaptation of the 
Xaieek myth 
_awjut the curse 
qf-the house of 
"At-reus, a he
reditary line 
doomed to sufferTiorrible be
trayal and vio
lence from and 
toward its
members. More specifically, the 
^play is about the youth Orestes
 who kills his mother,
 Clytemnestra (Lorien Clemens), 
because she killed Orestess father, Agamemnon.
 Suzuki has also given the piece 
a Japanese twist, incorporating
 traditional Japanese dances and 
; costumes, and formal theatrical 
techniques including noh and
 kabuki. It doesnt work. The cosunimpressive dance movements. 
It all seems added on, irrelevant 
to the story, and it slows the play 
down.
That last comment may not be 
fair, for the play is already so
Courtesy of the University of Pittsburgh 
Lorien Clemens (Clytemnestra), Joel Lee Kulp 
(Ortes), and Desiree Ciancio (Electra) perform at 
Pitt.
mind-numbingly tedious that I 
would have nodded off with or 
without the Japanese theatrical 
elements.
What is most frustrating about 
this production is the total physi
cal quiescence. Nobody moves! 
Even the dance pieces seem static, 
as though someone had glued 
these people to the ground and it 
hurt for them to try to move. 
This seems particularly odd since
the actors were put through a 
four-week intensive course on 
Japanese theatrical styles of 
movement.
Critics were told of director 
Yukihiro Gotos use of full-fron
tal playing style, in which the 
actors directly face the audience 
so that none of their expressions 
are missed. I can think of noth
ing that would limit an actor 
more, especially considering 
that the only expression that 
runs through this play is rage. 
Pure, flagrant rage from start 
to finish. Rage and maybe selfpity.
The audience sits for 80 min
utes (though it feels closer to 
180) watching perfectly immo
bile actors in interesting cos
tumes scream about how pissed 
off and miserable they are. And 
when there were more than two 
people on the stage, I lost track 
of who was addressing whom, 
since everybody was facing us!
As if to counteract the inert
ness of the players, there are a 
lot of special effects incorpo
rated into this production, usu
ally accompanying the dances. 
They, too, are frustrating.
Deafening drums, piercing 
wails, flashing lights, and the oc
casional piece of the atonal 
screaming that somehow passes 
for rock music in the 90s. My 
senses were so overloaded, I didnt 
know what all of it was supposed 
to represent.
There was quite a bit of fog, as
indeed beautiful, but somebody 
needs to find a new . flower to 
associate with romance. I vote for 
lilacs, but in keeping with the 
theme, Ill use my own rose meta
phor: The rose that blossoms 
from the unseeded soil of Bed of 
Roses is actress Pamela Segall, 
who plays Lisas best friend. She 
is smart, sassy, cute, and sweet 
all at the same time. This could 
be a breakthrough performance 
for Segall, so keep an eye out.
Die-hard Christian Slater fans
will flock to see this movie no 
matter what (I know I did). 
Valentines Day daters will find 
it appropriate (Ill not be par
taking in such activities, thank 
you). Florists will swoon (lilacs, 
I tell you!).
At any rate, Bed of Roses is a 
lot of fluff peppered with a few 
nice moments, but not much 
that is special enough or novel 
enough to make you fall in love 
with your significant other all 
over again.
DOSSIERT
well. So much, in fact, that near 
the end, a heavy cloud of it floated 
out into the audience and some 
people in the first five rows, in
cluding myself, were suddenly 
seized with fits of coughing and 
wheezing.
The program notes that this
Courtesy of the University of Pittsburgh 
Clytemnestra is Tadashi Suzuki 
adaptation of a greek myth.
fog is environmentally-friendly. 
What about audiencefriendly? About two-thirds of the 
way through the play,
Clytemnestra, in one of her melo
dramatic promulgations of selfpity, declares, We have all suf
fered long enough! Very little 
kept me from standing and shout
ing in reply, Amen, sister!
auto!bio!GrAfiK
poetry 
short stories}a6o*tv
erper,
por; photos, 
gpoe#*?**
in all^Ssket&es pciintw]
son
illustration 
art
design
DeadlineFebruary 28 th
Writer contact: Kevin Meehan, [km5v] 
Artist, Designer contacts: Jennifer Zieserl, [jz25]
Brockett Horne, [gb27] i
Managing the elements of change
Triple Point Technology, Inc., a cutting-edge software developer 
for the commodities trading industry, will be conducting oncampus interviews for full time positions on Wednesday, Feb. 28. 
Interested candidates will possess a degree in computer science 
and an interest in the financial industry. This challenging career 
opportunity offers a competitive compensation package along 
with a unique opportunity to gain valuable experience. If you are 
unable to meet with us, forward your resume to: Triple Point 
Technology, 71 Rowayton Ave., Rowayton, CT 06853.
Fax: 203-831-4106. E-mail: jobs@tpt.com
TRIPLE POINT
Peace Corps
at Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Information Table: Tuesday, February 13, 1996 
The Student Center, 10am-2pm 
Apply now for programs leaving this summer
For 35 Years Over 140,000 
Peace Corps Volunteers 
Have Put Their Idealism into 
Action. Now it's Your Turn. 
For more info call: 1-800-424-8580, Ext. 1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  12 February 1996L13
DH 2210
-yj rrrrri-'iTLLUjL
movies you may have seen before.....
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, February 15
Beauty & the Beast
No, you Disney-loving, mouse-petting, happysmiling devil-hounds, this not the animated flick. 
This is, in fact, a mature and artsy film by some 
French guy named Jean Cocteau. However, it is 
pretty much all the same as the Disney flick only 
this version is more moody and dark and the beast 
is played by a real-live person instead of a man in a 
beast-costume. There are no stupid candle sticks 
that dance around, you smiling love-hippies. You 
know who you are. Youre the ones who go to the 
Warner Brothers store and comparison shop.
Anyway, this movie is better than any animated 
cartoon, any day. Its kind of good, kind of bad, and 
a whole lot French. See this with the Belle of your 
ball.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 16
Heavenly Creatures
This movie is about two lesbians who kill people. 
If that isnt enough to draw you and yours to the 
theatre, then read on!
One of the best movies of the year, according to 
this one guy I know, is this moody examination of 
two girls in love. And, get this, they kill people so 
they can stay in love! Its a glad day when death can 
bring lovers closer together. The guy also said that 
the two girls were really psycho, and its a really 
good movie. It was directed by Peter Jackson. See it 
with a friend who killed somebody. Join us this 
Friday for sex and matricide.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, February 17
Money Train
This movie, starring Woody Woody Harrellson 
and Wesley Wes-a-bing-a-roo-loo-ha-ha-cho 
Snipes, is a buddy movie about cops. It also involves 
a series of chases with big trains and they burn this 
one guy in an information booth. In other words, 
there are a few holes to this cheese, but it sure 
tastes good.
People think this movie made some kids in New 
York blow up a guy in an information booth because 
they saw it in the movie. Its pretty freaky to think 
about, but its true.
See this one out of habit. It should please the 
firebug in you.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm , and 12:30 am.
Sunday, February 18
Breakin II: The Electric 
Boogaloo
Well, theres some plot involved. And a song called 
Oye Mamacita. These two things intermesh to 
produce one of the finest movies to reach the screen 
in 15 to 20 minutes.
See, what happened was that in the 80s, people 
really got into break dancing. I wont explain what 
it is. Just bear with me. So, they decided to make a 
movie all about it, andBreakin axiABreakinII were 
born. These movies are not only the finest examples 
of break dancing available, they are the only ex
amples known to man. In fact, break dancing is not 
a beautiful but lost art.
See this with someone who can do that weird pop 
move and the one where you fall on your back and 
spin around. OK?
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Critic loves Beautiful Girls
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Ok, guys, I need to say this to 
you: Just because critics say that 
a movie is a great date movie 
does not mean that it sucks. We, 
as men, can find these movies 
enjoyable as well.
What: Beautiful Girls 
Director: Ted Demme 
Company: Miramax
I say this because Beautiful 
Girls has been proclaimed as one 
of these great date movies. It is 
a good flick, with or without a 
date. It stars Timothy Hutton as 
Willy, whos come back to his 
hometown for hislO year, high 
school reunion.
His mother died recently, his 
brother still lives at home, and 
the neighbors that had lived next 
door for years moved away a year 
ago.
There is so much in this movie, 
so many characters, so many dif
ferent relationships going on, its 
mind-boggling. But the movies
the bartenders cousin, played by 
th oh-so-beautiful Uma Thurman.
Beautiful Girls is a very funny, 
touching, and entertainingmovie. 
There are also several fresh state
ments and thoughtful questions 
raised about beauty, but fortu
nately the movie doesnt try to
not cluttered by any means.
One of the first people Willy 
runs into is Marty, the neighbors 
daughter. She is smart, pretty, 
funny, and 13 years old. Marty 
proceeds to endear herself to Willy 
using a wit and charm beyond 
heryears. But shes an old soul,
she says. ----------------------
Willy comes 
across his old high
school buddies soon s 0 rnany characters. so many difafter and learns of r *
their current situferent relationships going on, it's
ations
Theres Tommy, mind-boggling. But the movie's 
d in on dn ickn am ed not cluttered, by any means. "
Birdie by his _______________________________________________________________
There is so much in this movie,
Tommy is rooming with Paul, 
played by Michael Rapaport. Paul 
just got the marry me or else 
ultimatum from his girlfriend, 
played by Mira Sorvino. Tommy 
is dating Sharon, played by 
Natalie Portman, while sleeping 
with his girlfriend from high 
school, Darrah, playedby Lauren 
Holly, who happens to be mar
ried to someone else.
There are other characters who 
have important roles, including
cram it down your throat. It de
picts the myriad characters and 
their small-town lives so clearly 
and unflinchingly, so realistically, 
that the characters and their situ
ations become familiar, as one 
sees themselves and their friends 
in the characters.
Rosie ODonnell shows up in 
Beautiful Girls as the fast-talking, strong-willed hairdresser 
who is friends with the wife of one 
of Willys buddies (its a small
town; everyone knows every ones 
else).
She adds much of the humor to 
the movie, especially through a 
tirade sparked by a Penthouse 
magazine.
Willy says that a beautiful girl 
has power, and that she can make 
everything right 
just by herbeatity;
Willy proceeds to 
search Pauils 
freezer for severed 
heads (not reallyj 
he just jokes about 
it, and maybe there 
were severed heads 
in the fridge, but
------------------- then this would: b^
immomlMMM an entirely differ? 
ent movie.)
Once again, I implore youf go 
see this flick, especially if you 
have nothing better to do. I know 
half the guys out there nearly 
retched when they saw the wprd 
touching in the movie$ 
advertisment.
Its a good film, and itll make 
you laugh. Go with someone sper 
cial, someone beautiful, sit back!, 
hold their hand, .and enjoy the 
movie. Stop groaning, guys. ;
City Hall I,ov9 ig Aon tmoiote9 giu
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
it probably has already crossed leave the romance on the cuttingwinding with absurd ease, almost
your mind. As if this werent room floor and try something inas if the writers had another
enough, apparently the script novative with the plot. No matter project suddenly come up and 
The whole is not always equal. writers deemed romance obligahow well it could have been needed to devote every waking
to the sum of its parts. In some tory and so it was thrown in to played, City Hall was limited by hour to its existence. Although
its really a lot less, and City Hall as well.cases
City Hall is one of these.
What: City Hall 
Director: Harold 
Becker 
Company: Columbia 
Pictures
Take your classic mob/govern
ment corruption flick, toss in a 
little romance that really doesnt 
fit, add some overacting and thats 
basically what this movie will 
leave rolling around in your head. 
After seeing the trailer for City 
Hall, I was expecting a stirring 
and unsettling look into the driv
ing forces in city politics. Instead, 
what came out was a mishmash 
of reused ideas, glazed over with 
a fine production.
The focal point of the movie is 
presented at the beginning in a 
scene common to any recent ur
ban drama, no matter what the 
medium. A detective tracks a 
mobster, seemingly random gun
fire occurs, and the audience is 
left to observe the repercussions. 
These comprise the rest of the 
movie, and while they are well 
executed, there is nothing unique 
about how the ensuing events 
unfold.
A six-year-old boy was killed in 
the crossfire, warranting careful 
examination of the whole event. 
The mayor, John Pappas (A1 
Pacino), and his deputy, Kevin 
Calhoun (John Cusack), are 
among the first to try to deal with 
the issue, seemingly for the sole 
purpose of satisfying their selfinterests.
As the movie continues, other 
characters push the plot towards 
its predictable conclusion, found 
in nearly all Hollywood movies 
where the mob is involved. I wont 
spoil this for you, simply because
WHEN YOU RIDE DRUNK. ONE MORE 
FOR THE ROAD GAN HAVE 
AN ENTIRELY DIFFERENT MEANING.
Alcohol quickly affects your judgment, balance, and coordination. When these faculties^ 
are impaired, riding becomes more than difficult. It becomes dangerous. Don't drink 
and ride. Or your last drink might be your last drink. MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATIONS
To accomplish 
this, they intro
duce Marybeth 
Cogan (Bridget 
Fonda) as an at
torney for the 
slain policemans 
family and s et her 
loose to wreak 
havoc with the 
deputy mayor.
Stirring an inter
est in the matter 
the two set off to 
try and solve the 
intricacies of the 
shooting. Over the 
course of time, 
their relationship 
becomes more 
personal, but in 
the end, the ro
mance doesnt 
work, primarily 
because it is ne
glected for the 
most part by 
Fondas character. For a brief 
period during their sleuthing, 
Cogan and Calhoun seem to have 
something between them, but it 
quickly fades as Cusacks charac
ter continues to gain strength 
and Fondas fades.
Cusack sives a fine nerformance in the central role, over
powering Pacino, who seems to 
be too absorbed in playing mayor, 
every opportunity to shout and 
emphasize that he is the one in 
power.
This emphasis actually has the 
reverse effect, distancing him 
from the other actors. Danny 
Aiello gives a capable perfor
mance as a dirty politician, and 
Martin Landau portrays a judge 
in supporting performances.
This movie would have been a 
lot better if they had decided to
G Castle Rock Entertainmit
Al Pacino as New York mayor John Pappas and John Cusack as deputy Kevin Calhoun 
star in City Hall. r. ? -
its tried-and-true script as it at
tempted to be the archetype of its 
kind. By the middle, it was bla
tantly obvious how things would 
turn out, and everything was unpresenting adequate visual#, 
what City Hall leaves resonating 
in the mind is the question of 
why it all had to happen lifteit 
did.
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study . 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
Filling THIS Hat Requires That 
[
A'D'6
INTERNATIONAL NETWORK SERVICES 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V
NEIWOM
MANAGEMENI
Today's business market requires that you go beyond , 
well beyond. In order to achieve and retain success*/1 
iP you must be the best of the best. At International - 
Network Services, we wear many different hats to achieve..; 
the most advanced consulting and technical internetworking services ,in. 
the industry. INS performs the computer networking magic that projects 
our clients ahead of their competitors.
ASSOCIATE NETWORKSYSTEMS ENGINEERS
INS is fast becoming the largest Network Consulting 
practice in the industry today. To meet the needs of our 
rapidly growing Fortune 100 client base, we have 
immediate entry-level opportunities in various U.S. cities.
Positions require an understanding of LAN/WAN inter
networking technology and the ability to design, implement, 
and troubleshoot heterogeneous networks. Knowledge of 
multiple network protocols like TCP/IP, SNA and IPX is 
essential.
If people see your work as pure wizardry, try on a hat at 
INS. In return, we provide the compensation, benefits and 
stock equity expected from a networking leader. For prompt 
consideration, please forward confidential resume to:
International Network Services 
Corporate Recruiting 
3030 Bridgeway 
Suite 121
Sausalito, CA 94965 
Fax: (800) 332-7089 
e-mail: stafflng@ins.com 
http://www.ins.com
We will be on campus on 
February 20th 1996 for pre-select 
interviewing, please sign up now!
REIWORIOPERAIIONS
NEIWORI DESIGN

---------------------------------------------------


-Films
Beauty and the Beast will play this Thursday 
in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Heavenly Creatures will play this Friday in 
DH 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Money Train will play this Saturday in DH 
2210 at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Breakin3 II: The Electric Boogaloo will play 
in DH 2210 this Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm and 
midnight.
The Carnegie Museum of Art (MOA) De
partment of Film and Video presents 7,
Worst of All, director Maria Luisa Bembergs 
superb portrayal of the 17th-century Mexican 
poet Sister Juana Ines de la Cruz. It will be 
showing this Friday at 8 pm in the MOA 
theatre. On Saturdayand Sunday the Carnegie 
will be showing Neria, director Godwin 
Mawurus film about the capitalistic destruc
tion of cluture. Showings will be at the MOA 
theatre at 8 pm For more information, call 622- 
3212.
Sports
The CMU Hockey Club will be playing 
Westminster in an away game at 8:45 pm on 
Thursday. On Saturday it returns home for a 
game against Allegheny at 8:30 pm
The CMU Varsity Basketball Teams will be 
playing home games against Emory University 
on February 16. The mens team plays at 6 pm 
and the womens team plays at 8.
Mens & Womens Indoor Track will be com
peting away against Denison University on Feb
ruary 17, time TBA.
Lectures
Art
-----
Michael Cohen, scholar-in-residence, will speak 
,on Jewish history at the William Pitt Union 
Kurtzman Room on Monday, February 12, at 1 pm 
on the Pitt campus. This lecture is sponsored by 
the JUC-Hillel Foundation.
The Pennsylvania Speakers Association pre
sents Tom Antion, a humorist famous for his 
freeze-frame approach to video. He will be giving 
his lecture, Freeze Frame Video Presentation:How 
. to Make 'Em Laugh!, on Saturday from 8 am to 
noon and again from 1-4 pm. Using live video 
excerpts, he will show you how to sell more of your 
products, services, and ideas by using humor.
Thursday from 5-7 pm. Admissions to the gallery 
and reception are free.
ARC-Alleghenys Expressions art show will be 
on display at the Gateway Center Complex until 
February 29. This original and creative display 
features work by mentally challenged artists and 
represents the winners from the 1995 Expressions 
competition. For more information, call ARCAllegheny Communications at 322-6008.
Environ / Mentality, an exhibit featuring the 
works of Jill Anderson, Frank Ferraro, Alexi 
Goodrich, Carlos Szembrek, Paul Vanouse, Jill 
Watson, and Anne Wolf, will be on display at the 
Brew House Space 101, located at 2100 Mary 
Street, from February 9 through March 3. For 
more information, call 381-7767.
Notices
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts The Week
end Factory, named after Warhols studios in 
New York City. Free with Museum admission, the 
Weekend Factory is open Saturdays and Sundays 
from 12 pm to 4 pm. The studio is located in the 
Museum Underground. For more information call 
,237-8300.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the opening of the 1995 Carnegie Inter
national show November 5 through February 18. 
The exhibit was organized by the Museums cura
tor of contemporary art, Richard Armstrong and 
represents a confluence of the best of the moment 
in contemporary art worldwide. For more infor
mation call 622-3214.
A Century of Exploration and Collection, an
exhibit celebrating the Carnegie Museums cen
tennial year, will be on view beginning January 
27. The exhibit traces 100 years of scientific activi
ties through 80 artifacts selected for historical 
significance. Call the Museum at 622-3361 for 
more information.
Birds and Beasts of Ancient Latin America, a
new traveling exhibit exploring the relationship 
between humans and animals in the PreColumbian world, will be on view at the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History January 27-April 14 
in the Changing Exhibits Gallery. For more infor
mation, call 622-3361.
The Art Warehouse presents For the Love of 
Flowers, a unique display of one-of-a-kind florals 
in various mediums that will last forever. These 
flowery delights will be on display from February
14 through March 10 at the Art Warehouse, Scenic 
Route 40 at Bennington Rd. in Hopwood, PA. For 
more information, call 439-1667.
The Hewlett Gallery presents Alchemical 
Blue, a mixed-media installation by Janet Towbin. 
Alchemical Blue will be on display from February
15 though March 9. Everyone is invited to meet 
.the artist at a public reception at the gallery on
The Goodwill Literacy Initiative is looking for 
volunteers to help adults learn about reading, 
writing, and math. The tutor training sessions 
began in January, so call soon formoreinformation 
at 481-4836.
Join the CMU Ballroom Dancing Club to stay 
in shape and have a terrific time. Learn to dance 
the waltz, fox-trot, tango, cha-cha, rumba, swing, 
and salsa. Classes are on Thursdays at 7 and 9:30 
pm in the Drill Deck, Student Center. Singles and 
couples are welcome. Semester fees are $15 for 
students, $25 for CMU staff or alumni, $30 for all 
others. A special wedding dance night is planned 
for this Thursday at 5:30 and 7 pm to learn the 
polka, waltz, and swing.
Aerobic instructor certification and continu
ing workshops are coming to the YMCA in New 
Kensington on February 17 and 18. For more 
information and a brochure, call 1-800-237-6242.
The Jewish University Center and Hillel are
sponsoring events this week, including a discus
sion of travel and programs in Israel by Yigal Peeri 
on Tuesday at noon in Student Center room 208, a 
town meeting to discuss the future of Hillel events 
on Wednesday at 8:30 pm at the Jewish University 
Center, and a private party at Pittsburgh Deli 
Company for those who are over 21 and have valid 
IDs on Thursday night for $3. For more informa
tion, email maxg@andrew or call 621-8875.
Connelley Technical Institute and Adult Edu
cation Center are looking for volunteers to tutor 
reading and/or math to adult students. Time and 
place will be accommodated to meet your schedule. 
Free training and materials are provided. If inter
ested, please contact 338-3711.
The Indiana University Center of Philan
thropy is seeking student applications for its two 
prestigious, highly competitive fellowship pro
grams, awarding stipends, summer internships, 
and credits towards a graduate degree. Recent 
college graduates not engaged in any graduate 
school or study program are eligible candidates. 
Applications are due February 17. For more infor
mation or an application, please write the Indiana 
University Center of Philanthropy, 550 West North 
Street, Suite 301, Indianapolis, IN 62023-3162, 
(317) 274-4200, Fax (317) 684-8900.
Silver Eye Center for Photography presents 
Cafe Silver Eye this Friday, from 7-9 pm. Cafe 
Silver Eye is a monthly discussion group open to 
anyone who would like to share conversation and
coffee while discussing the photography of the 
host and the participants. This months host is 
local photographer Stacey Grieff, who will begin 
the evening by discussing the use of instant films. 
The forum is held at the Silver Eye Center for 
Photography, 1015 East Carson Street on the 
South Side.
The CMU Newman Club will host a Mardi Gras 
party onFebruary 17 from 8-1 pm at the Newman 
Center, located at 4450 Bayard Street. For more 
information, call Dave or Nate at the Tech House 
at X2-2484.
 Theatre
The Carnegie Mellon Department of Drama
presents Yerma, a play by Frederico Garcia Lorca. 
Directed by MFA candidate Shoshana Partos, 
Yerma goes up Friday, February 16 and runs 
from February 17-24. Tickets are $10 for the 
pubUc and $5 for students and senior citizens. 
For more information, call 268-2407.
The Saltworks Theatre Company presents 
Little Rock, a play by Kermit Frazier which fo
cuses on the events of the Civil Rights Movement 
involvingthe desegregation of Central High School 
in Little Rock, Arkansas. The play will be per
formed at the Eddy Theatre of Chatham College 
on February 16-18 at 7:30 pm with matinees on 
Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 pm. For more 
information, call 687-8880.
Landscape of the Body and 27 Wagons of 
Cotton, two plays by John Guare and Tennessee 
Williams, respectively, will be playing in reper
toire at the Studio Theatre this Wednesday 
through Saturday. 27 Wagons opens Wednesday 
at 8 pm and will run again at 8 pm on Friday and 
Saturday. Landscape opens Thursday at 8 pm 
and will run again at 11 pm on Friday and 2 pm 
on Saturday.
Music
The Carnegie Mellon Department of Music
presents two one-act operas by Gian Carlo 
Menotti. The Telephone and Amelia Goes to the 
Ball, directed by Peter Frisch and conducted by 
Robert Page, will be playing at Carlow Colleges 
Antonian Theatre on February 16 and 17. Sup
port your fellow students of the arts. Tickets are 
$5 general admission and $4 for seniors citizens 
and students.
Bowery Electric, a New York band that has 
often been compared to My Bloody Valentine, will 
be playing at Cloud 9 with locals the Underflowers, 
at 9 pm on Monday, February 19. Tickets are $5. 
For more information, call 281-8277.
Thickhead Grin and the Goodies will be play
ing at The Electric Banana, located at 3887 
Bigelow Boulevard, on Saturday, February 17. 
For more information, call 682-8296.
The Carnegie Mellon Originals, CMUs first 
all-male a capella singing ensemble, is looking 
for more members. The Originals is a studentrun organization, and performs songs of all genres 
from doo-wop to hip-hop, and everything in be
tween. If you are interested in auditioning or just 
want to find out more about this exciting new 
group, call Ken at 441-0875 or send email to 
jaredmOandrew.
Free advertising for events! Sub
mit calendar entries to emu@andre-w 
over email, or call The Tartan office 
at 268-2111. Announcements are 
due Wednesday before print date to 
ensure publication. Entries should 
be succinct and list contact numbers.
Submit Vox Populi entries over email 
to emu@andrew. Anonymous entries 
can be submitted in the Vox Populi 
box onto the Tartan server. Submis
sions are due on Wednesday prior to 
print date. Contact emu@andrew to 
answer questions/ find details.
VOICE OP THE PEOPLE
QTPie,
Eep opp ork ah ah!
Will you be my valentine? 
Love,
S.C.
k Matt has a woman? 
-Wax
&&
cjC>
Dizzy Devil,
Incest is best 
Good thing you' 
an only child.
Happy six months and six 
days on this valentine's day. I 
love you very much and I can't 
wait to come back to Seattle!
A
%
Love Always, 
Zeus
A8
LOON.
M<v 6FYUCHA! Juu, S. cook --o -ed S
mean M
fryg
D%
Rod,
you
% $*L.L. - -3
Can't wait to celebrate ^
Valentine's week with you!
AI'm Sorry.
1" Love,
dumb girl room g00
-b
cassowary
