Carnegie
rOL. 42No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1948
reshmen 
<eted At 
leception
Deans Will Meet 
I New Students 
| Monday Evening
Carnegiehs annual Deanhs Rejption for all freshman is planid for Monday evening, Septemr 20, in the Fine Arts building. 
Beginning at 8:00 p. m. new 
udents will be received by Miss 
osephine Campbell, Dean of 
Vomen; Dr. James Dickinson, 
)ean of Men; Mr. Ben David, 
Assistant Dean of Men; and Dr. 
)ouglas Miner, Director of Stuent Personnel and Welfare. Vinnt Prus, President of Student 
Duncil, will represent the stu;nt body in the reception line. 
To be admitted, freshmen must 
ear the name cards issuecT~ at 
egistration. Wives and husbands 
f entering students also are welome. Those unable to register 
reviously may secure a name 
ard by calling at the office of 
le Dean of Men in Administraon hall before 5:00 p. m. Mon
day.The reception committee has 
requested that only the north en
trance to the Fine Art building, 
facing Margaret Morrison Street, 
bp used by those attending.Plans have been made for 
Cjpcing in the Exhibition hall, 
adition, Mrs. George Kimberof the Drama department has 
anged for entertainment to be 
en in the Little Theater. Inded in the entertainment will 
songs by Gloria Bergman, Mar'ajret Morrison student and star 
ff last yearhs Scotch and Soda jroduction. Miss Bergman will 
>e accompanied by Kenny Welch, 
Irama student and co-author of 
he production.
Other members of the Scotch 
nd Soda cast who will perform 
heir specialties are Priscilla 
rrill, Iris Rose, and Rose 
ulman. Phil Flad will present 
magic act, and Fred Gentry 
[Continued on page 3]
i
ntering CIT 
Still No 
Simple Task
The Registrarhs Office has re
eased the following figures conerning applications and admisions for the coming school year: 
In the College of Engineering 
ind Science, 400 freshmen were 
iccepted from 2750 applications, 
ratio of approximately one to 
even.In the College of Fine Arts, 175 
Jiew students were accepted from 
75 who applied, and Margaret 
fforrison College approved 150 
f 300 applicants.The total freshman enrollment 
if 725 is a slight decline from 
ast yearhs total of 735.
That the postwar pressure on 
lieges is easing can be seen by 
mparing the above figures with 
ose for February, 1946, at which 
e there were approximately
000 applications for admission 
the engineering college with 
ly 20rv candidates accepted. The GI is slowly vanishing from 
e campus, since at the start of st year 80 percent of the male tudents were veterans, while vetrow comprise only slightly 
ttan 50 percent of men stu[1
. . . the freshman finds that college is a constant panorama of 
new experiences which leave him with a fuller understanding of 
the world he lives in and the determination to face new problems 
with assurance and aggressiveness . . .
EditorialOpen Letter To The Freshman Class
No One But You
At the risk of sermonizing, we would like to begin the 
year by passing on to you some thoughts that may hasten 
your absorption into the pattern of collegiate life.
Although we eant outline a way of life that will lead to 
the fulfillment of your fondest dreams, we would like to make 
a suggestion that we think deserving of your consideration. 
And that suggestion is to give Carnegie Tech a chance to do 
some of the things that it can for you.
Most of you are embarking upon a critical period in your 
lives, shifting your main interests from your home to the 
college community. Your ultimate place in the world will 
probably be determined more by what you do in the next four 
years than in any other comparable period of your life.
No matter what your goal, the college community can 
give you substantial aid in achieving it, provided you give it 
the opportunity.
Although most of you come here with one or two primary 
interests, we entreat you to avoid the mistake of closing your 
minds to the many benefits of college life, benefits that you 
may heretofore have been unaware of or unimpressed by.
Perhaps the majority of you are here for the education 
that Carnegie Tech offers, or for the auxiliaries to a four year 
college education (the sheepskin, resulting social prestige, etc.) 
If you have any desire at all for this particular end, the 
school will see to it that you have sufficient opportunity to 
attain it. To those of you who may not be particularly con
cerned with the serious side of college life, studying, may we 
gently remind you that the school will be greatly interested 
in your progress. Dont overlook the fact that classroom work 
is intended to benefit you, and your instructors will be work
ing for, not against, your real interests.
Our preoccupation at the moment is with those other 
facets of college life which too many students often miss, to 
their detriment and eventual sorrow. They are the extra-cur
ricular activities and social events that not only give a wel
come relief from the everyday grind of studies but also pro
vide valuable training in the abilities and graces that will be 
found indispensable later. Not to be overlooked are those unique 
personal relationships with your fellow students and even with 
faculty and administration members, who are, long-standing 
prejudice to the contrary notwithstanding, warmly human.
All these are tremendously important in rounding out 
your personality and your mind. Although we all feel a cer
tain reluctance about taking the first step into something new, 
you should realize the opportunities you now face and do your
self the favor of stepping up to meet them, starting this 
very day.
College can do so much for you. For your own sake, give 
it the chance.
2.
Scimitar, Cwens Set 
Freshmen Regulations
Sale Of Dinks At Registration 
Inaugurates Indoctrination Period
Designed to aid freshmen in becoming acquainted with the 
school, its traditions and customs, and the rest of the student body, 
a program has been set up under the direction of Scimitars and Cwens, 
respectively the menhs and womenhs sophomore activities honoraries, 
for the first month of the school year.
During the course of the registration procedure the freshmen 
will be informed of some of their responsibilities, which must be
?carried out by a prescribed time 
XT' 11  in a prescribed manner. No ac-r!iiirollment 
Drops From 
Postwar Peak
Leveling off after reaching the 
postwar peak last year, total reg
istration in the day school will 
fall slightly below 3500 for the 
fall semester, according to E. K. 
Collins, Registrar.
The exact registration cannot be 
predicted, Mr. Collins said, be
cause of the undetermined num
ber of students who have volun
teered in the armed forces or 
who have dropped out of school" 
for other reasons.
Approximately 725 freshmen 
will register today and tomorrow, 
with upperclassmen starting today 
and continuing through next 
Tuesday.
During the course of registra
tion all seniors and freshmen will 
be photographed, giving the school 
a picture file of all students, the 
present sophomore and junior 
classes having been photographed 
last year.
Pre-scheduling of courses for 
the first time will be almost uni
versal throughout the College of 
Engineering this fall, with only 
very irregular students avoiding 
having their programs made out 
for them.
Most engineers will still find 
themselves with Saturday classes, 
the still-swollen enrollment caus
ing a shortage of classrooms which 
in turn necessitates the spreading 
out of class hours over six days.
Most of the students who work 
in the registration processing are 
holders of scholarships from the 
school. They serve without re
muneration.
Tartan Staff 
Has Openings
Freshmen who have had high 
school journalistic experience or 
who are interested in newspaper 
work are being sought by the Car
negie Tartan to fill vacancies in 
all sections of the staff. A meet
ing of all those interested will be 
held next Thursday, September 23, at 4:30 p. m. in the Tartan office 
in the Carnegie Union.
In addition, upperclassmen who 
have not previously been on the 
staff are invited to put their abili
ties to work. No department of 
the paper is filled. Especially 
needed are news reporters, copy 
and proof readers, typists, head
line writers, and feature writers, 
although there is still room for 
business staff members, sports 
writers, artists, and photographers.
Advancement, based on merit, is 
rapid for those who demonstrate 
aptitude and a willingness to learn. Although there is no journalism school at Carnegie Tech to
tivities in connection with Fresh
man Regulations will, however, 
bear any resemblance to the haz
ing of pre-war days.
Information about the school 
and campus will be distributed 
to all freshmen during registra
tion. They will then be required 
to pass an examination on this 
material, the annual Traditions 
Exam. A minimum grade of 70% 
is required.
Freshman dinks will be sold at 
registration and all freshmen men 
and women will be required to 
wear them for the duration of the 
freshmen regulations period, 
which will end at Homecoming, 
October 16. Freshmen will also be 
prohibited from using the Senior 
Walk, alongside Engineering hall.
On Monday afternoon, Septem
ber 20, separate orientation as
semblies will be held for fresh - 
men men and women, at which 
the organized campus activities 
will be introduced and explained. 
Completing the day will be the 
Deanhs Reception, where the 
freshmen will be introduced to 
members of the administration.
The time and place of other 
events which the freshmen will 
attend will be announced later. 
Included among these are pep 
rallies preceding football games 
and singing sessions designed to 
introduce the school songs.
During the festivities which oc
cur during the Homecoming week
end a Freshman Queen will be 
elected, and the freshman men 
will engage in an athletic contest with the sophomore men.
This program as above outlined 
has as its purpose the complete 
assimilation, as soon as possible, 
of the freshmen into the stream 
of campus life. Upperclassmen are requested to realize this pur
pose and aid in its fulfillment.
Student Work 
Displayed At 
Institute
A diverse display of the com
bined work of the Carnegie col
leges is now open for public ex
hibition in Bird hall of the Car
negie Institute. Opening each eve
ning at 8 p. m., the display will 
remain open until October 1.
Included in the display are a 
model car, the product of the In
dustrial Design students from the 
P & D department, and a model 
house built by the architecture students.
The design for the display is 
the work of Constantine John 
Kermes, a h46 P & D graduate.
teach the finer points of journal
istic practice, the Tartan under
takes to train its own staff mem
bers in the skills which are needed on the paper.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANFRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1948
Management 
Department 
Has New Prof.
Homecoming Plans Expanded; 
All Students Will Take Part
Fall Carnival Plans Dropped To Concentrate 
All Efforts Toward Improving Homecoming
Homecoming next month will be the outstanding event of 
the fall semester, according to plans approved by Student 
Council at the end of the spring semester. The objective of 
the revised plans is to provide a truly all-school Homecoming.
Featuring ,the football game between Carnegies Tartans 
and Franklin and Marshall college, the weekend will be cli
maxed by an all-school dance in the gymnasium on Saturday 
night, October 16. To be announced soon is the name of the 
band which will play, one of the nations most famous name
hands. ?-------------------------------------------------
Plans made by Scimitar and 
Delta Skull, respectively the menhs 
sophomore and junior activities 
honoraries, for a Fall Carnival 
were dropped by those organiza
tions so that they might work 
with Cwens, Citcom Clan, and 
Menhs Dorm council on an ex
pansion of the theme of an all
school Homecoming which was 
initiated by Citcom last year.
The festivities will begin on Friday evening with a pep rally 
and parade led by the Kiltie 
Band, which will be followed by 
an informal dance in the gym, 
featuring a local band. This dance 
is intended primarily to provide 
dorm and commuter students and 
aion-fraternity alumni with the op
portunity to gather that they have 
heretofore not had. At the same 
time the fraternities will hold 
their open houses and will display 
their house decorations.
Since the school has allowed 
the cancellation of Saturday class
es on Saturday morning, a full 
dayhs program has been made 
possible. The events thus far 
scheduled include a freshmansophomore contest, the football 
game at Forbes field, the crown
ing of the Freshman Queen, the 
all-school dance and finally, 
breakfasts sponsored by frater
nities and independent organiza
tions.
The purpose of the revised and 
expanded plans is to make Home
coming meaningful to a larger 
number of the undergraduates 
and alumni, to bring the nonfraternity students back to the 
campus and provide an absorb
ing program for them.
President Vince Prus of Stu
dent Council appointed Barry 
Rowles as chairman and Tom 
Hall and George Zenk as mem
bers of a special committee to co
ordinate the activities of all the 
organizations concerned. Acting 
as general chairman, under that 
committee, is William L. (Lolly)
Anderson.
Tartan Notice
All members of the Tartan 
staff are reminded that they 
are responsible for covering 
their beats on Monday, Sep
tember 20 and for reporting 
to their Chief Reporters. Mem
bers of the copy and make-up 
staffs should report at the Tar
tan office on Friday evening, 
September 24, at 7:30. If there 
are any questions, call MU. 
5365.
E. B. Roberts, outstanding in
dustrial relations expert, joined 
the Carnegie faculty on Septem
ber 1 as a professor of industrial 
administration.
Professor Roberts comes here 
after 30 years service with the 
Westinghouse Electric corpora
tion. His last position with that 
company was that of assistant to 
the vice-president of Industrial 
Relations.
A pioneer in industrial relations 
in the Pittsburgh area, Mr. Rob
erts was active in the formation 
of the Pittsburgh Personnel asso
ciation, and served as president 
of the group in 1943-44.
Professor Roberts was awarded 
a doctor of science degree in 1918 
from St. Johnhs College. He taught 
at Kittanning high school before 
serving with the army in World 
War 1.
A member of the American So
ciety for Engineering Education 
and the National Association of 
Manufacturers, Professor Roberts 
is also a member of the board of 
trustees of the Westinghouse Tech
nical high school.
Born in Oxford, Maryland, Dr. 
Roberts has contributed articles 
on his native state to the Mary
land Historical Magazine, a pub
lication of the Maryland Historical 
Society, of which he is a member.
Publication Subscriptions 
Are On Sale At Registration
Thistle
Students may purchase their 
1949 Thistle at the desk establish
ed by the yearbook business staff 
at the end of the registration line. 
The total cost of this yearhs book 
will be five dollars, of which three 
dollars must be paid now and 
the remainder on delivery.The Thistle needs freshmen, 
sophomores and juniors who are 
interested in working on the advertising and sales staffs. Any
one interested in such jobs should 
so inform the students at the This
tle desk.
Technical
Mathematics and Society by 
Dr. John L. Synge, who resigned 
as head of the department of 
mathematics last spring, is the fea
ture article in the October issue 
of the Carnegie Technical, which will be placed on sale at registra
tion.
Other articles in this first issue 
include a description of the oscil 
lator for the CIT cyclotron, writ
ten by Tom DeBolt, and a treatise 
on supersonics, by Jack Smith.
Cano, CIT's literary magazine
published under the direction of 
Carnegie Technical Publications, will not appear until a later date.
Scottie
The September issue of the 
Scottie, campus humor magazine, 
will be placed on sale today at the 
Scottie desk in the registration 
line, where subscriptions to the 
magazine may also be purchased.
This issue of the Scottie introduces the new Dean of Women, 
Miss Josephine Campbell, through 
the medium of a full page picture 
and a biographical sketch.
Carnegie Union 
Hostess Named
Mrs. Rosalie Hagins of Johns
town, Pennsylvania, has been ap
pointed hostess of the Carnegie Union building.
A graduate of Wells College, 
Mrs. Hagins formerly served as 
hostess for the Johnstown Wel
come Wagon. During World War 
II, she served as assistant to the 
head of transportation of Fair
child Aircraft in Hagerstown, Maryland.
Mens Dorm
Facilities
Expanded
Two new dormitories, Boss and 
McGill halls, have been added to 
the list of menhs dormitories, 
which this fall will house a total 
of some 580 men, including 80 
graduate students and 175 fresh
men.
The other dorms housing un
dergraduate men will be Scobell, 
Welch, Henderson, Miller, and 
Englebrecht halls and FPHA, and 
graduate students will occupy 
Mellon, Birch, and Whitfield halls. 
Single, male faculty members will 
live in Forbes hall.
All dorm students are remind
ed that the proctors residing in 
their dorms may be consulted on 
any personal problems or any 
questions pertaining to the school.
The 75 freshmen who must 
room off campus are asked to 
keep in touch with the housing 
office so that they may secure dor
mitory rooms as soon as openings 
occur. ,
Vincent Prus Heads 
New Student Council
Constiution, Key Awards, NSA
Controversies Remain Unsettled
Vincent Prus election as president of Student Council at 
the last meeting of the spring semester relegated IACs J. K. 
OHare to the role of vice-president of Council for the third 
consecutive semester.
At the adjournment of Council for the summer a number 
of important issues had not been#----------------------------------------------settled and are expected to ap 
pear on the fall agenda at an 
early date. Among these are the 
revised Council constitution, to 
affiliate or not to affiliate with 
the National Student Association, 
and the adoption of a workable key award system.
Subjected only to general discussion last spring, the new StuCouncil Notice
The first fall meeting of Stu
dent Council will be held at 
4:80 p. m., Wednesday, Sep
tember 29 in the council room 
at the Carnegie Union.
Vincent Prus, 
President.
dent Council constitution is ex
pected to be presented to Coun
cil by Constitution committee 
chairman Bill Johns within a 
short time. The revision is ex
pected to embody many improve
ments over the old constitution, 
providing more efficient adminis
tration of student affairs.
Sharing the spotlight with the 
revised constitution will be the 
report of Gerry Meyers and Tom 
Hall on the proceedings at the 
convention of the NSA, held last 
month in Madison, Wisconsin. 
Hall and Meyers attended as of
ficial observers representing Student Council.
They have indicated that they
ing and Science, will deliver the 
commencement address, entitled 
Pumps, Power, and Prospects.
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Carnegie Graduates 160 In 
Last Summer Commencement
Approximately 160 graduates, members of Carnegie Techhs last 
summer session graduating class, will receive diplomas during the 
schoolhs 51st commencement, Sunday, September 19, at Carnegie 
Music hall.
The largest number of undergraduate candidates, 60, will be 
in the department of electrical engineering. Mechanical engineering 
will graduate 53 students. Civil engineering has three graduates
while aeronautical engineering#-------------------------------------------------
and physics will each have two 
graduates. An undergraduate de
gree will be awarded to one chemistry student.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College will graduate six students, 
three each in home economics and 
general studies. One student is 
scheduled to receive a degree in 
art education from the College of 
Fine Arts.
Nine of the twenty-two candi
dates for masterhs degrees in the 
College of Engineering and 
Science are fro mthe Pittsburgh 
district. Five area residents are 
candidates for doctorhs degrees.
Students scheduled to receive 
doctorhs degrees are Earl Eugene 
Fisher, Monongahela; Millard 
Freeman Gordon, Rochester, Pa.;
Raymond Richard Halik, Phila
delphia; Kenneth Eugene Keys,
Pittsburgh; Clifford Coover Klick,
Kutztown; Harold Paul Landerl,
Pittsburgh; Norman Francis Park
er, San Diego, California; and 
Louis Lauther Seivard, Princeton, New Jersey.
Foreign students scheduled to 
receive doctorhs degrees are 
Charles Dube, Mont Joli, Canada, 
and Hsiang Lin How, Swatow,
China, Rudolph Leo Motard, Ot
tawa, Canada, will receive a mas
ter of science degree in chemical engineering.
The only girl to receive a Bach
elor of Science degree will be Bar
bara Jeanne Jones of Canfield,
Ohio, who majored in chemistry.
Dr. Webster Newton Jones, Di
rector of the College of EngineerCAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR
---------------------H---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion .................................................................... 8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon ...................................... 11 a. m.
(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Service on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish
House, followed by Canterbury Club Meeting,
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:301:30) 
----------------------44---------------------
will make no specific recommen
dations to Council, but will re
port only the individual im
pressions they received at the 
convention. Although Council ap
propriated money for the purpose 
of joining NSA last spring, the 
money has not been sent, and 
apparently no action will be tak
en until Council makes a final de
cision.
Unresolved at the conclusion of 
last year was the controversy 
over key awards, to which the 
new Council is expected to search 
for a solution in the near future. 
Plans previously presented in 
Council combined with informa
tion obtained from other schools 
during the summer by the com
mittee on key awards, is expect
ed to lead the way to some sort 
of action shortly.
Mens Rushing 
Now Underway
Rushing by Carnegie Techhs 
thirteen fraternities is already 
well under way. This week has 
been filled with dinners and stag 
affairs for freshmen, to enable 
them to get better acquainted with 
the members of the fraternities. 
Almost every fraternity plans a 
Saturday night rush dance, with 
several of these featuring local 
bands.
The before-school festivities 
will be terminated by a silent per
iod on Wednesday until 5 p. m. 
Pledging can begin after that time.
Sorority rushing of freshmen 
women is limited to luncheon en
gagements. This is due to the fact 
that Carnegie coeds are not per
mitted to join sororities until 
their sophomore year. Sophomores 
will begin pledging sororities on October 5.
All Students Welcome
h

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Paul Offermanhs
Sportscope
CITs Deemphasis Of 
Athletics Is Explained
By now you have all probably heard various comments 
and stories concerning the dismal appearing intercollegiate 
athletic setup at Carnegie. The actual account of the rapid 
disintegration of a once-great athletic plant, whose teams 
gained national recognition by beating the likes of Notre 
Dame and Pitt, is that of a long drawn out battle between the 
alumni and administration over the value of first rate teams 
in terms of finances, enrollment, and prestige.
Needless to say, this split resulted in Carnefie dropping 
from class A to class C football without even a glance at what 
lies between. It also furthered a lack of in
terest on the part of alumni who could not 
stomach this sudden drop to football obscuri
ty. Deserted by the administration and in part, 
the alumni, the athletic system staggered on 
for a couple of years against opponents who 
were weakened by man-power shortages, finally 
disbanding at the end of the 1942 season for 
the duration of the war.
With the return of full enrollments and 
fulltime scouting operations of most other schools in 1946, 
Carnegie got its first bitter taste of :the athletic de-emphasis 
program. Good players were still hard to get and with the 
GI Bill offering what most schools used to induce players 
with, bargaining prices soared to such dizzy heights that Car
negie had little with which to induce players to wear the 
Plaid.
It is our viewpoint that Carnegie was fortunate in junk
ing its high-powered as well as high-priced athletic policy 
when it did. This occurred less than a decade ago; yet, other 
schools were soon to follow our example, realizing the peril 
of professionalism.
That a top team doesnt benefit a school financially, scho
lastically, socially or athletically is a known fact. The cost 
of running extensive coaching and scouting staffs, plus ticket, 
publicity, and stadium offices almost always exceeds the reI
 turns. A top team also finds difficulty in drawing up a schedule 
with the type of team it wants to play, and often must travel 
thousands of miles. Fordham in its heyday was forced as far 
as Hawaii for a game. *
Big-time football doesnt make loyal alumni either; it 
_ doesnt bring increased gifts to alumni funds; and it doesnt 
even help to carry the extra intercollegiate sports and intra
mural programs. But the largest by far of the perils of highpressure football is its effect on the educational stature of the 
school. A good exa;mple of this took place right down the 
street when Pitt was consistently sending teams to the Rose
I
 Bowl. The Panthers made the trip to the west coast four 
times but created so many undesirable situations by so doing 
that their entire athletic organization was changed three years 
1 after the last trip.
It is also our firm conviction that the fact that commer
cialized football does not pay off in dollars, extra students or 
prestige will give pause to all the football factories within 
the next few years. An imposing football team is like a low 
license number on a car. Its nice to have around but con
spicuous when something goes wrong.
. . . this year's intercollegiate prospects . . .
The intercollegiate program of this year could prove a 
surprise to everyone concerned with the plight of the Tar
tan athletes. The long draught of good football with a few. 
wins tossed in will certainly come to an end with any kind 
of good breaks. In fact we dont even think we are going out 
on the limb by predicting a .500 season for Coach Bill Dono 
hoes boys. A good solid line built around veterans of last 
years squad will certainly give opposing backfields plenty of 
trouble. The backfield, however, working fast and smoothly 
out of the single wing, could be just the thing to swing the 
pendulum in favor of the Skibos for the first time in many 
years.
Basketball should also take on a rosier look this season 
with practically the entire varsity back. Coach Donohoe will 
once again be assisted by Mel Cratsley, one of the schools 
all time basketball greats. The experience garnered by the 
freshmen members of last years squad should mix well with 
the sturdy play of the older courtmen. If the Tartans can come 
up with the necessary reserves they will bear watching in 
the local court picture.
Soccer, cross country and swimming will remain an unI known quality until the respective squads begin pracmlice. Soccer and cross-country candidates will report on Sep[ Vtember 22. Swimming will probably begin about the middle 
' fof November.
The Carnegie Tech football
Football Practice Begins Amid 
High Hopes For 1948 Season
Gridders Work 
Smoothly Using 
New Single-Wing
team, still seeking its first win 
since 1942, will inaugurate the 
current campaign against Wash
ington University at Francis Field 
in St. Louis on October 2.
Fast stepping: backs like these may pull Carnegie out of the 
football doldrums.
Head coach Bill Donohoe anti
cipates a highly successful sea
son despite the loss of such vet
erans as center C. B. Groomes, 
winner of the Joe Pash Memo
rial Trophy in 1947, and quarter
back Gerry Helland. Donohoehs 
optimism is backed by the 
attitude of confidence which 
surrounds the entire squad 
and coaching staff. Little 
doubt seems to exist in the 
minds of those connected with the 
team that the long victory famine 
will end before the 1948 season
is very old.
The present Tartan gridiron 
team boasts a stronger line and a 
faster backfield than has been 
shown here since before the war.
The blocking is sharp and pre
cise and the squad has been work
ed into fine condition by the twoa-day drills which started Sep
tember 8.
Aggressive line play in the first week of dummy scrimmagres.
Bulletin
Mens Glee Club
The Menhs Glee club of Car
negie Tech will have its first 
meeting of the year on Tuesday, 
September 28, at 4:30 p. m. in 
Room 104 of Margaret Morrison. 
Auditions for new members will 
be held at this time. All old mem
bers are requested to be present.
Citcom Dance
Citcom Clan, Carnegie Techhs 
organization dedicated to the in
terests and activities of com
muting students, will hold its first 
social event of the fall semester, 
a dance in the Carnegie Union, 
on Saturday, September 25, at 8 p. m., Robert Jay Fulton, presi
dent, announced this week.
All freshmen and new students 
who are interested in joining the 
Clan are invited to attend, as are 
all old members.
New Pep Squad
Carnegie Techhs support of its 
athletes will be given a shot in 
the arm this year with the forma
tion of the Pep Squad, a new organization for the promotion of 
school spirit.
The Squad will serve as an or
ganized cheering section, for which 
there will be reserved seats at both football and basketball 
games. It will strive to organize 
improved pep rallies. Joint meet
ings with the cheerleaders will 
be held to work out new cheers 
and means of general improve
ment.
The Squad will be divided into 
publicity, cheering, bonfire, and 
other committees.
First call for members will be 
made in the latter part of Sep
tember. The exact date of the call
Board
will be announced in the Tartan, 
and will be posted on the campus bulletin boards.
Cashier Notice
Students wishing to cash checks during registration may do so in 
the cashierhs line in the gym. At 
all other times checks in the 
amount of $25 or less will be cash
ed in the cashierhs office in Administration hall.
Bookstore
The Carnegie Tech book store 
has supplemented its schedule in 
an effort to alleviate the usual 
rush which occurs in the base
ment of Administration hall dur
ing and just following registration.
On weekdays the store will be open from 8:30 a. m. until 5 p. 
m. and in the evening from 6:15 
to 8:45. On Saturdays the hours 
will be from 8:30 until noon.
Freshmen are urged to get their 
books as soon as possible after they finish registration.
Deans Reception
[Continued from page 1]
of the music department will sing.
In addition, Carnegie cheer
leaders will be on hand to intro
duce some of the school yells. 
Members of the Kiltie band will 
also make a musical appearance. 
Mr. Hugh McKnight, assistant 
chairman of admissions, will act 
as master of ceremonies.
Student hosts and hostesses for 
the evening will be members of 
Mortar Board, senior womenhs 
honorary; Omicron Delta Kappa, 
senior menhs honorary; Delta 
Skull, junior menhs honorary; and 
Cwens, sophomore womenhs hon
orary.
The tentative starting lineup 
lists Johnny Williamson and Bob 
Dougherty at ends, Gerry Meyers 
and Norm Keats at tackles, Floyd 
Wiseman and Larry Stovicek at 
guards, Dean Kamaras at center, 
Bobby Sommers at tailback, Ray 
Warner at wingback, Jack Magnifico at blocking back, and Wes 
Kenney at bucking back. Because 
of the keen competition displayed 
thus far in practice sessions, the 
foregoing lineup may undergo 
several changes before the open
ing whistle sounds.
The most improved lineman on 
the squad is 6h2 Stovicek who 
apparently needed only one sea
son of varsity play to develop into 
one of the outstanding guards in 
the district.
In the backfield the fleet-footed 
Sommers seems headed for a 
great season as dne of the main 
offensive threats the Tartans have ready for action.
The freshman class has turned 
up two stellar backs in Arnie 
Oberg, a quarterback, and Johnny 
Luchok, a fullback, both of whom 
are pressing the veterans for firststring positions. Another stand
out among the newcomers is end 
Fred Wilson who will probably 
see considerable action.
The coaching staff plans long 
scrimmage sessions between now 
and the beginning of classes so 
that the squad will be in top 
shape by October. Practice ses
sions will continue at the rate of 
two a day with occasional eve
ning skull meetings as a supple
ment until the opening of school, 
when activities will taper off to 
single daily drills.
Cross-Country, 
Soccer Practice
All candidates wishing to try 
out for the varsity soccer or 
cross country squads are urged 
to report to the intercollegiate 
athletic office in the gym as 
soon as possible.
Formal practice for both 
sports will begin on Wednes
day, September 22.
Freshmen are encouraged to 
turn out and take advantage 
of Carnegiehs athletic policy of 
permitting first year men to 
take part in varsity sports.

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1948
TEXTBOOKSEvery Need
mbp[C....BBmll A GOOD STOCK OF 
And Serve As Weii"
---------------THE PLACE FOR----------------
 "Tartan Pencils
 Brief Cases
 College Seal Stationery
 School Supplies
 Notebooks with Seals
Fraternity Decals 
Slide Rules 
Fountain Pens 
Leather Notebooks 
Engineering Supplies
' 'Ours Is A Trade 
That Service Made"
3811 FIFTH AVENUE
CORNER BOQUET and FIFTHLit US SERVE 0]
