LAST CHAPEL 
ARTS THEATER 
TODAY NOON
SSECOND SELECTION |
CAMPUS QUEEN
WEDNESDAY NOON I 
B
VOL. XXII NO. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928
LASTCH PE HRODCHYNAHTI|MUQWBV.XCMSI27TXBQIG XBFE c-ed In Mid-Semester Throes Bewails
I BARNES CHOSEN PRES. OF
ENG.-IND. PLEBES 2ND SEM.
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW I The results of the voting in Arts i ,
School last Tuesday placed the follow[
Shining Sun, Singing Birds, Bally Breezes| rio.be elections in Science Schools 
 were partially completed Friday when
EIGHT ARTS; SEVEN 
M.M. GIRLS CAMPUS
fH A ID MAM RFSIGNS ing Freshmen in office for the present The sun is shining and the birdies i is, What price vacation? The fac-l John E. Barnes jvas elected president, 0 I I F F N P ANDIDATFS 
IvLykJlviliwJ semester_ ! nro sinffiiiennri .,1 hniiv hroovps nvAvUlty seems to control the market, on I Albert C. Redding was elected secre-| ^
Miss Ellen B. Michie, Sr. In I Treasurer ................ Elmer Lundberg
Drama Department Accepts131' sate Re.................. DWchey!sea  niid-semesters.r 1 Girl Senate Rep.
are singing, and the bally breezes are  ulty. seems to control the market on ) Albert 0. Redding was elected sec.
the price of vacations; for, sure j tarv, and Howard C. Eyth was elect* | 
; enough, when some good vacation i ed treasurer. Weltzel and Hoover
semester.
\ ice President .............. Milded Core j blowingand here we are, scarcely aSecretary .....................  Flo Matternostril above water in the choppy  8t0Cit comes into view, up goes the | polled a tie voto for vice president 
Choppy sea? ; price: How? Oh,
Betty Newell ChP au A in half. and you have a D; quizzes on all the
Second Election Tomorrow
Appointment to Chairmanship I The three girls, elected to hold I chop a. D int half* aU(l >ou have liys' j slept through. Or maybe the facultyI office in the Freshman Class are all jterics youre a female, or blindness has a philanthropic motive, with the
| pledges of the Beta Pi Sorority. Flo j fl'om ba(1 li(Iuor if youre a maleor j purpose of making vacation a real joy
SHOWTO BE PRODUCED j Matter and Betty Newell are students j vice vel;saby contrast with the previous two
__r j in the P. & D. and' Mid Core is in the j just a few days abead oE (lie j weeks.IN GAYETY 1 JhLJbA 1 KJtL, Music Department. two eyes above water is a lovely little At any rate, here we are with our
Lundbeyg is a student in ArchiLten-day stretch of time whose green j )lajr failing (and thats why all the
tecture and a member of Alpha Sigma ' rass under a grinning blue sky is dot-, great thinkers are bald); our finger
Phi. Richey is also a student in the ited with little white trundle beds for nails disappearing into our bewildered
Department of Architecture and a i sleepy students. And here and there tummies; our eyes bulging, pushed 
member of Kappa Sigma. j among the Easter lilies and hyacinths j out by the rapid accumulation of gray
j The balloting resulted in a dead\ and dandelions, the two eyes can see j matter and relaxing tothe tune of 
i lock for the offices of Class President j new Easter dresses, and hats, and j "Hail. Hail (omitting all lines but
suits with the trousers creased tc j the last).
knife-like keenness walking' aimlessly j And that just makes us wish we 
about, waiting to be occupied and : were a bearhibernating isnt a half 
| taken on^ the annual excursion to bad idea at that. But, as Noah said to 
church, or elsewhere (with the stress j his wife a couple days before the 
| on the elsewhere). flood, Cheer upthe worst is yet to
But that is the futureand the prescome. 
ent is present. And the question now ; Oh, Gee! We just saw a robin!
view, up goes me | poneu a lie vote tor vice presiueiu, j---------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
just a few little j and a revote will be necessary to doj ]^230 tO 1*30* Three Girlse lectures youve . cide this office. Barnes is a pledge * 
Committee Selects Wedding Bells 
as Ninth Campus Week Show; 
Cast Being Picked
Walter Browne Rodgers, who was 
recently appointed to. head the pro
duction of the Ninth Campus Week 
Show, tendered his resignation last 
Thursday evening when it was duly 
accepted. The vacancy made by the 
resignation was filled by the immedi
ate appointment of Miss Ellen Michie, 
Senior in the Department of Drama. 
Miss Marjorie Bartholomew, student 
in an advance course of Dramatics, 
will collaborate with Miss Michie in 
the production of this years show.
The appointment has created quite 
a stir, for this is the first time in the 
history of the school that women stu
dents have managed the. production of 
the Campus Week Show. Both stu
dents are highly recommended by 
Chester Wallace, professor in the 
Department of Drama. Miss Michie 
graduated from National Park" Sem
inary, Washington, D. C., in 1925. In 
the fall of the year she registered in 
the College of Fine Arts, Department 
of Drama, as a degree student spec
ializing in production, and is this 
year a member of the Senior class. 
She has assisted in the production 
of the many successes of the Drama 
Department, carrying much of the re
sponsibility of the management and 
staging. Miss Marjorie Batholomew 
is  graduate of 'Wellesley College, 
class of 1923, and she too is special
izing in productiorfT"doing much jLn the
and Y. W. C. A. representative, neces
sitating a revote today.
Plebes Prepare For 
Annual Prom Gambol 
After Easter Recess
of the Delta Upsiion fraternity, lied-. Will be Chosen From Fifteen 
ding is a member of the Sigma Alpha j 
Epsilon and Eyth is a member of the |
Phi Kappa.
Very little iniative was shown in I 
the voting. Only 117 out of 345 Freshj 
men voted. If the Freshmen cannot 
make themselves vote there is a pos
sibility that the Sophomores could 
make them vote by threatening trial 
to all those not balloting.
PLANS FOR WOMENS 
EVENTS UNDER WAY
Three Exhibits At
Sub-Chairmen and Comittees Are 
Appointed; Sweepstakes Vehi-^ 
cles Chosen
| In the first ballot cast last Weduesfflrnpoip InQtitlltP (lay Marcl1 21> fifteen girls were VjCII llloLlLUlC chosen as candidates for the honor
__________ | of Queen of Carnegie's ninth annual
I campus week. Eight. Senior girls | Cassatt, Hawthorne, Exhibits; I from Arts School and seven from
Freshmen Will Promenade to 
Music of Clown Band to 
Win Exemptions
A little over two weeks remain un
til the circus will appear at Carnegie. 
Carnegies All Fools Day now known 
as the Plebe Prom will bring together 
the greatest freaks on the Campus and 
the outstanding characteristics of cer
tain individuals will no doubt be 
flouted about by revenging Frosh. The 
clown band/composed of Plebe musi
cians will lead the gallant band of 
Plebes, who are pushing forward along 
the path of custom in the hope of ex
emption from old man regulations.
The Pebe Prom is entirely in the 
hands of members of the Student 
Council assisted by the members of 
Drama Department plays. Both girls ! the Regulation Committee. All Frosh 
have shown themselves to possess j will be excused from class one half 
good managing and business ability, j hour early so as to give them an opand will without doubt make a sue-1 portuiiity to dress and be ready by 
cess of the show. They will be as11:30. The choosing will be done in
sisted by Mr. Wallace, who will se-j the assembly rooms of the various 
lect the cast and direct the play. i schools. From 5-8 will be exempt in 
At the meeting of the Show Com-I each school depending upon the size 
mittee last Friday night it was of the enrollment of the school, 
definitely decided to stage Wedding All Plebes must be present in cosBells," a comedy farce. The comj tume or suffer a severe penalty, a 
mittee has been considering Is Zat j haircut, will be given. This is not 
So, but on account of its having i just another phase of Regulations 
been used on both the stage and j which is to be evaded but air'annual 
screen, it was not deemed advisable j Carnegie tradition which should be
' supported one hundred per cent by
A. L. LEWIS, TYPOTHETAE CARNEGIE PLACES THIRD 
HEAD, TALKS HERE TODAY IN COLLEGE RIFLE MATCH
Photographic Prints 
Now on Display
A. V. DeForest Delivers Second of 
Series of Lectures Tonight 
in Union
West Va. Wins Championship on 
Carnegie's Range in Last 
Saturdays Contest
Margaret Morrison were nominated.
The following are the nominees: 
Margaret Bittner, Mt. Lebanon,'P. & 
D.; Rae Broida, Pittsburgh, Costume 
Economics; Lucille Burrell; Cleve
land, Ohio, Music; Carolyn Edmundson. Pittsburgh, P. & D.; Lucille Galmish, Butler, Household Economics; 
Melba Leet, Edgewood, Costume Eco
nomics; Jean Mather, Sewickley, Sec
retarial; Elizabeth McFadden, MiddleFour lectures of engineering and ; 
printing nature will be given this week 
by A. L. Lewis, president of the United ! 
Typothetae of America and Alfred i 
Victor de Forest, researon engineer 
of the American Cham Company. Do  
Forest delivered the lecture of his 
series Testing, Selection and Survi
val Among Engineering Metals in 
the Union last evening at 8:30. The 
remaining two will be delivered to
night and tomorrow evenings at thv*. 
same time. 
De Forest is an authority on the j 
subject of development of test, i
Three exhibits are now open in the 
Galleries of Carnegie Institute. One 
is a memorial exhibit of the paint
ings and pastels of Mary Cassatt who 
was born in Pittsburgh. The second j
Is an exhibition. of tile paintings of j port! 9|8E|Orama: Yi^olynOffut. New 
On Saturday a gnn battle was held W Hawthorne whose picture ; Castle, P. & D.; Ellamay Pal ton. Slier-.. , , . ... The Captain, the Cook, and the First adon, P. & D.; .loan Roy. Pittsburgh,
Mate won the third prize In the 1921; Household Economics; Marjorie 
International Exhibition. Tile third Snodgrass, Bellevue, Secretarial; Jean 
exhibit Is the Fifteenth Annual PittsSpringer, Silver Springs, Md P. & IX; 
burgh Salon of Photographic Art.
between picked teams of the best rifle 
men in the major colleges and univer
sities of Pennsylvania and West Vir
ginia. It was a bitter battle to the 
very end, in which no quarter was 
asked or given. The hushed silence 
of the crowd of spectators was con
tinually broken by the bark of the 
rifles, the whiz of the bullets, and the 
ping as they tore through the target 
and truck the metal stop plates. Oc
casionally the voices of the coaches 
were heard as they called the shots 
and directed their men .who were
Charlotte Wardale, Pittsburgh, CosThe Photographic Exhibit opened ! tume Economics, and Mildred Young,
March 17th and will continue through , Canton, Ohio, P. Sr. D. The picture ol'
April 15th. Thore are liftoon conn(these gjrls appears on page 3.
tries represented in the 3*10 prints in
cluding England, Belgium, Canada,
Uraguay, Spain, Poland, Australia,
Hawaii, Italy, Switzerland 
Cze.chpslayakia, and Japan. 
Japaueso have an unusually 
number of prints on display.
Tho ' 
large I
methods, particularly in the field of1 straining with all their efforts to malco 
magnetic analysis, having spentiiitP, good scores for their schools; 
past eight years In that line after his [ After tho last shot had boon fired, 
appointment with the American Chain ; tho smoko had cleared away, and the 
Company. Previously he had studied j final scores added up. it was found
to produce it. The story of the play 
selected is very interesting. In spite 
of its many complications the plot is 
easy to follow, and, having a lot of
the class of31.
Next Tuesdays program is as fol
lows: 11:00 A. M., all Plebes to he
comedy and many humorous inclj excused from classes to get ready for 
dents; will make a very appropriate j the Prom. 11:30, all Plebes to report 
plav for Campus Week. I to the assembly rooms of their reReadings will be held immediately, spective colleges. Science 218, Inand the cast .selected as soon there
after as possible. Any student who
dustries 104, Little Theater, and As
sembly Hall in Margaret Morrison.
desires to take part in the show is Frosh will line .up in single file outurged to attend the /readings, for the j side these rooms and will enter one 
cast Is not to be restricted to drama . at a time to be' judged. The volume 
students. of applause will be the guide to the
"Al Brown, who is business manjudges as to which ones should be exager ofN the show, already has his j empt. At 12:30 all Frosh both girls 
-plans' uAder way. This week he is | and boys will form a parade led by 
announcing the appointment of James i the clown band and will parade around 
H. Seibert as chairman of advertising j the campus.
and publicity. Seibert is a member j Previous Proms have disclosed a 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, j wealth of originality which will no 
and advertising manager of The Tar-j doubt appear this year as.well as last, 
tan. He also served as treasurer of Clever caricatures, fancy costumes, 
this years Junior Prom" Committee, j skeletons, ghostly goblins, two-headed 
and will no doubt prove very capable j men. Queen Elizabeths, King 
in conducting the advertising cam-j Richards, Toy Soldiers, and countless 
paign for the show. Within the next J other personages aresure to be repweek Brown expects to announce the  resented and perhaps even a male conehairman of ticket sales and proper-(testant for Campus Queen, who 
ties. ~ i knows ?
at both the Princeton and/ Columbia 
universities, folowing his graduation 
from the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. After a year spent with 
the staff of the Remington Arms Union
Metallic Cartridge Company in Bridge
port, Connecticut, he accepted his 
present position in 1917.
Lewis lecture, seventh in a series 
of fifteen on printing and the related 
subjects, is the principal cause of his 
three-lecture tour to Pittsburgh. It. 
will be delivered in Room 104 of the 
College of Industries at 2:30 today be| of pictur 
fore students in the Department of j papermen 
Printing?. He is scheduled to have de
livered a speech this noon to the 
members of the Pittsburgh Advertis
ing Club. This evening he will be 
guest at a joint meeting of the Print
ers Council of the Chamber of Com
merce and the Craftsman Club to be 
held at the Chamber of Commerce.
The second oloetlon will be held to
morrow at the same time, 12:80 to 
"'11:30. From these fifteen candidates
many, j candJdates three girls will he chosen.
In tho final ballot on Apri 11 tho 
queen will bo olootod from tho throe 
 , , , , remaining nominees.Fourteen hundred prints wero sub...........milled lo the Jury and the throo ! ''<> Women  lwo.it Committee for
h undue}, and forty soloctod wo.ro, 
chosen by Nicholas Hay, follow of tho 
Royal Photographic Society of, Now 
York; Holmes I. Mettoo, Baltlmoro 
and Paul Wierism, Chicago. Tho 
exhibit treats a variety of subjects, 
including marines, industrial pori 
traits, still life, architectural studios, 
and portraits.
Dr. David R. Craig of tho University I 
of Pittsburgh, who Is a member of 
tho executive'oommlttoo for tho salon, 
says of tho exhibition; Tho prints, 
on view can bo rightly said to roproAs has been the custom in previous 
years the regular performance of the 
show for the general student body 
will be given on the Saturday evening 
of Campus Week. An afternoon
-Fred Woods was appointed general 
chairman of the Plebe Prom Com
mittee by Student Council as he is also head of the Plebe Regulations 
committee. Other members of the
showing on the same day, as well-as committee are: Jean Mather, pres I
(Continued on Paga Two)
SCABBARD AND BLADE TO 
HOLD SMOKER THURS., 29
dent of the Margaret Morrison Senate, 
Mark L. Seibert, president of the Arts 
Senate, Fenton Finn, head of the 
Science Senate, and Al Brown, presi
dent of the Industries Senate.
The divisional assemblies will be in 
charge of the Senate presidents as
sisted by the Sophomores who make 
up the Regulations committee and the 
Druids honorary.
that West Virginia was In first place, ;
Penn State second, and Carnegie Tech 
third, only 12 points behind Penn 
State who led them by tho same narj
row margin last year. Following Car(
negio were University of Pennsylva!
nia, University of Pittsburgh and i
Droxel Institute in the order named. .
The match which was scheduled to 
start at nine In the morning, did not ,,, ... . . gel under way until about ton-thirty, sont 11,0 ll0Ht ln Pictorial j W oodlawn, Mirim trout, Moll.m Ha
because somo or the teams hud to got photography. Only tho widespread <! I'orhos IIol norms. Prizes will
their rlllcm sighted In. and a number ftm' generous interest on the part of Je otfored for the most or g mil and
were taken by the nowsPiotorlallsts from many countries to-, -host costume and a cup will bo given
The match was tired | | gothor with tho efforts M a critical , to tho winning dormitory. Thoro 
relays of lifteen minutes each One I'1"1'5' "Pl'Wng rigorous artistic stand-,should bo a groat doal of rivalry Tor1 ai ds have made the exhibition poflBi-, the cup luce it has been won three
bio." Tho exhibition Oils year, Dr. | times by the Forbes street tlornjs and 
Craig stfitos, is tho largest ono soon , last year tho Woodlawn dorms won
Campus Woek, hoadod by Adolo Hnhn, 
c,- l)o,gun Ilio work of planning tho 
womon's program for Campus Wor^ 
Sub-chalrmen and tholr oomrnltte^. 
bave hoon appolntod and alrondy 
mudi of the work Is start od.
The" Swe'epstakos Oommlttoo under 
Gertrude Zenk has deeldod ori a vory 
now Skl-Bo Dash. All tho dotali wlll 
ho kopL secrot untll tho hour whon. 
the con testali ts appoar on tho course. 
Thore wlll bo slx entrali ts, a. Margaret 
Morrlson commutor, an Arts commutor and a roprosontal.lve Troni tho
man from each team was on the firing I 
line for each relay, and they all fired 
the same position at the same time.
AL Lwelve oclock all firing ceased, 
and Lhe men were taken up Lo Lhe 
field house whore lunch was served by 
Lhe. famous athletic host, Bert Mun
At the Carnegie Lecture .Hall of tho j hall. At one oclock firing resumed, 
Carnegie Library, Dr. Charles Heinj and continued until three-thirty when 
series of pre-Lenall firing was finished. Ten recordroth has begun his 
Len lectures, all on musical subjects, 
which are held Saturday evenings in
stead of the usual orgairrecitals. Last 
Saturday the lecture was on Ameri(Continued on Page Two)
Rev. W.L. McEwan to Speak 
At Last Chapter of the Year
FRATERNITY FORMALS TO
BE HELD NIGHT OF MARCH 30.
The Scabbard and Blade, national 
honorary military fraternity, will hold 
a smoker Thursday night, March 29 
in the Faculty Club rooms. All 
Alumni members of Scabbard and 
Blade residing in the Pittsburgh Dis
trict are especially urged to attend j ---------
this event, the primary purpose of j The night of March 30, the last 
which is to organize an Alumni Chapschool night before Easter vacation, 
ter of the fraternity. Ralph R: Bush j has-been chosen by a number of fraof Akron, Ohio Division, commander | ternities for their annual Spring 
of Scabbard and Blade will outline j Dances, thus providing a last get-toplans for the organization of the gether and good time for the boys be-, 
alumni chapter in the Pittsburgh DIs-1 fore going home. The fraternities 
trict. Entertainment and refresh-1 taking advantage of this evening inments, in addition to the address by , elude: Phi Sigma Kappa, Beta Theta 
Commander Bush, will constitute the Pi, Sigma Nu, Delta Upsiion, Phi Kapprogram. i pa Psi.
The Y. W. C. A. will have charge of 
the last chapel of the year which is 
being held today in the Little The
ater at 11:30. The Reverend W. L. 
McEwan, minister of the Third Pres
byterian Church of Pittsburgh, will 
speak. Dr. McEwan is well known to 
many of the students body having 
spoken before on the campus.
IL has been announced that this 
chapel is essentially for the women. 
It is being sponsored by the Y. W. C.
shots were fired in each of Lhe lliree 
posilions: prone, kneeling and sLanding. Marked Largets were furnished 
by the NaLlonal. Rifle Associalion who 
sponsored Lhe' match. Each team was 
composed, of five men, all scores being 
counLed.
The Carnegie team deserves a large 
amount of crediL for their good show
ing in this match, considering the fact; 
thaL they have had a mediocre season 
due Lo lack of, enough maLerial, and 
Lhe facL LhaL t heywere greatly han
dicapped by the loss of men through 
ineligibility; A shoulder to shoulder 
match like this is a real test of com
parative team ability, because all 
teams fire under similar conditions, 
which is not the case of telegraphic 
matches.  The scores of the men 
Lhe Carnegie leam were grouped 
close LogeLher. CapLain Fisher and 
Bronson were tied for first place with 
Tom Lippert only one point behind.
here Lo date.
The Mary CassaL Exhibition is tho 
fourth importanL memorial exhibition 
of the works of this arllsL to be held 
in this country since her death ln 
1A26. The oLhers were held aL Lhe 
Durartd-Ruel Gallaries, New York; aL 
Lhe Art InsLiLuLe of Chicago; and at. 
the Pennsylvania Museum, Philadel
phia.
The exhibition consists of 4S paint
ings and pastels and 53 etchings and 
aquatints.
Mary Cassatt was bjrn in Pitts
burgh in 1845. At lhe age of six she 
was taken to Paris' by her parents.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Track Number of Puppet 
To Appear on April 10th
It for the third time also.
The. qualification ceremony will 
take place on Call Day and, as is the 
tradition the Freshmen will become 
members' of the Clan Carnegie. Not 
until this new link, is forged on th' 
chain of Carnegie classes may th.e.- 
Freshmen consider themselves real 
campus citizens. The Freshman y.ear 
is one of probation and testing and 
when the class of 31 has proven its 
mettle it will become the newest link 
of the Carnegie Chain.
AL Lhe burial of Old Man Plebe Reg
ulations the girls will dress in white 
and carry flowers. Led by the liantS 
playing Lhe funeral march they wilJ 
follow the pallbearers to the last fest(Continued on Page Three)
;Mr. A J. Dreux Speaker at 
Theta Tau Smoker Mar. 21
A. and the Womens Glee Club which
wron so much applause, at the Home j Kasenhagen and Weatherell followed 
Concert Friday night will furnish theJ in the order named. Neither Lippert 
music. They will sing a negro spirit-1 or Kasehagen had ever fired in such 
ual Were You There. Mrs. Brown, a shoulder to shoulder match before, 
insLructress in the Drama Department j (Continued on Page Seven.) 
willgive the scriptual reading.
P. K. A.S PURCHASE NEW
HOUSE ON WIGHTMAN
The Track number of the Carnegie 
Puppet, the next to the last, issue of 
Lhe year will go on sale April lOLh. j Last Thursday evening, Nu chapter 
The first day of school after Easter, of Theta Tan, National Professional
vacation. ILs appearance at. Lliis daLe | Engineering FraLerniLy held a smoker 
Is inLended Lo take some, of the blues j in Room 113 Science. A. J. Dreux, 
away which always come with the reChief Engineer of the Rieck-McJunturn to labor. kin Company spoke on RefiigeraThis number will deal most humor(tion. The smoker was aLLended by 
ously with track and field events| the active members and pledges of the 
both before and after dark. Undoubtlocal chapter besides several mem, 
edly it will break the record for Lhe | hers 'of the faculty who are members 
hundred yard laugh and the hundred of Theta Tau.
and twenty yard gloom hurdles. | Mr. Dreux graduated from Carnegie 
In view of the fact that the staff (p,lx years ago as a Commercial Enwill have all of Easter' vaoaLlon to | gineer and since Ills employment' at 
work on jokes and cuts, Lhe jokes aro Rieck-McJunklns he has risen to the 
The house hunting efforts of PI j bound Lo be beLLer and the cuts more position of Chief Engineer, a very 1mST.
This is the pre-Easter period; how
ever it may be pushed into the back 
of our minds by Spring fever, mid-term 
exams and, approaching vacations. It
is true that everyone Is loaded down j Kappa Alpha ^vlll at last be crowned ! numerous and funnier. Tho varying portanI; post as Lhere are approximate-1
with duties, but might we not just | wILh success when Lhey mf>Ve Into | of cover arLisLs Lhls year wlll be contake half an hour Lhls morning Lo de-Jlhelr new and aLLracfive home on linued wllh Lhls Issue. Sam Fllnors 
vote to thoughts spiritual and to think j Wightman sLreeL. The new house Is \ impressions will grace Lhe color shoot 
on the true meanings of the approach-1 satisfacLory in all respects, and In fills month, 
ing season. After 10:30 class drop In-many ways, Is superior lo Lhelr pres
to the LitLle TheaLer, listen to a few | enL locallon. The P. K. A.s were 
well chosen words, hear a text read; rather fortunate in obtaining a house 
and sing a verse of a hymn and ybu so near the campus and at the same 
will be certain to enjoy an inexplica-} time suitable for their nee^s. They 
ble feeling of well being the rest of will be home at Wightman street on | with you or of course If you have 
the.day. or about May 1. ticket, its stub number nine.
ly forty-six plants under Ills supervi-i 
Sion.
During his Lalk Mr. Dreux discussed) 
modern refrigeration Lendencles and 
With these few Ideas In view we [the many problems involved because
oncan expect tho Track number to be | of the lack of available staLlslics
Lhe b esf; number of Lhe Puppet tills j heat losses in various parts of-the
year. Dont forgetwhen you come system. He also described the Elec
back from vacation bring a quarter tropure process for the pasteuriza
tion of milk. Refreshments were
served after the talk.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928
of Bids.
THE COLLEGE SHOP
3618> FORBES STREET
New Accessories For Spring
Just Received a Complete Line of 
NEW EASTER NECKWEAR at $1.00 and $1.50 
Also Have Our Pull Line of Spring Blazer Samples. 
Located at 
4609 FORBES STREET 
After May 1st
1080 Union Trunt
| CLAN DIRECTORY j
NOTE: The Clan Directory given below in
Incomplete, und in eI me canon, poflfllbly incor
rect. It baa been compiled, however, from the 
latent available data. Any correction!) or au
ditions iihould bo Bent) In Immediately to the 
Alumni Ollicc.
BALTIMORE 
President, O. S. Diehl, Bellona Avenue. Secretary and Treasurer, I . II. I?ickey, > 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 70 WoBt Street, 
Braintree, deeeE
BUFFALO
Proflldent, Robert Porter, 130 Hoyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Moernhfelder, M ICetchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. .Taylor, 513 Alta Place, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vice Proflldent, Henry I.. Berber, 915 Green 
Street; Massillon, Ohio.Secretary, Wilmer II. Tucker, 1230*/j Cleve
land Avenue, N. W. M,n).Treasurer, George A. Marlin, 115 Ninth 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chairman, C. J. Copley. GU Writer BuUdlnK. Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair
man ; Vic StromdlBt, John Harknc. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chairman 
Harvey Hiller, Mrn. H.W. Davln. 
Mombernhip Committee, C. 1,1man; Mr. John Ilarknenn, Ihad Wheeler. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.All communlcationu ahould be addrcBBed 
C. J. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
Proflldent, G. C. Smith. Chemical Department, 
Univerfllty of Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
Proflldent), A. C. May, PcerlcBB Automatic 
Machine Company.Vico Preuldent, It. H. Humbert, 1840 Eaat 
lOlut Street.
Secretary, E. P. Batchai
Tr^Burorf L. C. Luntenborger, 1849 Eaat 101st 
Street.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLAN 
President, Katherine Kerr, 1938 Eaat 116th
Vlctf President, Alice Nelon Koppe, 1979 
Eant 82nd Street.Secretary and TreuBuror, Catherine Allan,
 Eant 124th Street.
COLUMBUS. OHIO 
Prenidont, N. J. Engle, 2CG South High St. 
Vico Preflident, Florence H. Lutz, 91 South 
Market Street, Logan, Ohio.Secretary and Treanuror, J. R. Paloma, De
partment of Romance Languages,
Stale Univerfllty.
CONNECTICUT 
President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Street!, Hartford.Vico Preflident, William Gooby, 10 Madinon 
Street, Now Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel Flax man, 
92 Vice Street, Hartford.DAYTON, OHIO 
Prcflblonb, F. W. Ileckert, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROIT
Proflldent, W. Ray Williams, enro Went'lnghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company. 
L535 Sixth Street.Secretary and Treanuror, C. L. Boyle, 
Balfour Road.ERIE
Prenidont, Ray Keller, caro Hnmmcrmlll 
Paper Company.Secretary and Treanuror, R. C. Warren, caro 
The Warren Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
Prenidont, G. M. Whlnlor, 1778 Ilono Street, 
Berkeley.Secretary and Treaflurer, Mm. R. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif.
HARRISBURG 
Preflident, John G. Todd, 20/j North Quce 
Street, Lancanter.Vice ProBidonl, Henry Y. Shaub, 20Mi North 
Quuen Street, Loncasler.Secretary, Frank Hlghborgor, care State De
partment of Public Inatructlon, Harrisburg.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street, 
Emit'.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John W. Frit*, 215 John Stroot.
KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH 
President, 1). J. MoFarlln, caro Koppe Coniitruotion Company, Union Trunt Building.
Three Carnegie Men Win 
In Cleveland House Contest
Ye Editor Says---
This number of the Tartan doesnt
contain much alumni news. Whats 
the matter, aren't you alumni doing 
anything? If so, let me know about
THEATRE PARTY ON 
APRIL 16 FOR TEAMS 
BY VARSITY CLAN
LETTERS
Carnegie Tech men always seem to 
step to the front when it comes to
competition,.. Just recently the nu-J 7t';'^'not, let mo know anyway, reau of Recomendatlons received a ... . . ' . ,
letter from H. Walter Damon of! MlBS A"ll''ew I her assistants 
Cleveland, In which he told of the working feverishly to complete the 
success of some of our men In a com-: !w directOT>' of le Alumnus,
petition hold there. j ''i05, e*$?ct Ilavo 11 ol,t sometime
The Cleveland Clay League had a 1 8 weG 
$7,0000 House Competition, and Car: Plenty of buzzing around the camnegle' men in Cleveland entered Jt i Pus about Campus Week. Have you 
whole heartedly. The results: "Hod ma yur Plans for it yet?
Horne, 26, won second prize of $300; j These elusive women! We couldnt 
Wayne Koppes, '25, and J. Byers find any of the other . Campus Queens ! house.
Hayes, '18, each won honorable men j this week, so well have to postpone | The event to which we refer is the
tion, which gave three of the seven our discussion of the next one until j big Theater party which the Varsity
places to Carnegie Tech Men. Kop. j next week. j e)an is llavIng. 'Bvery year the Var.
pen's rendering, by the way, was conAll hy the way, dl(] you know that lty clan entertains the various teams 
Biderod the host ol the flfty-one subj we Ua(1 election for Cam|)us ICarnegie, and this year has selected
J .of ^'t/e I Q11f*e.i tills last week. Narrows the ' tile theater party as a fitting means.
Clutching; Claws at Pitt 
Theatre to Thrill Car
negie Hosts
it looks as though things will be 
stirring at the Pitt Theater on April 
16. Carnegie Tech will, take the
Ohio
3009
together Warren,/lth J. C lompoHlng
MONONGAHELA VALLEY 
Conrad A. Stone, Mox 391, Char*
Alice Nixon Conn,Fourth and Dock
B. Lowntutior
MILWAUKEE 
Prenidont, A. II. TonUnon, 737 Fortieth Stroot 
Secretary and Treanuror, N. L. Dlttmer, 540 
Second Avenue, Wnuwatono.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treanuror, Mr yon Kltnlf, 4009 
Avenue M. Brooklyn, N. Y.Publicity Manager, F. I. Smith, caro II. L 
Doherty Company, (10 Wall Street. 
NORFOLK
President, T. I). Flhsglbbon, 811 Holt Stroot.
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
Proflldent, C. W. Gibbs, core lmrurnoll-Rand 
Company, 11 Broadway, Now York City. Vico Prenidont, E. W. Van Dor Wollc, 73 Grovo 
Street, Montclair, N. J.
Troaaurer, F. K. Zolglor, 295 Union Avonuo, Belleville, N\ J.
Secretary, J. F. Smanoy, 211 Locuat Street, Roselle Park. N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
President, M. I). Scott, 545 Ivathmoro Road.
Brookline, Upj>or Darby, Pa.
Secretary and Troauuror, T. S. Roppller, caro 
>Edwarda, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
'Chairman Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exline, 1520 Real Eatnto Trust Building.
Hunts 2 Years 
for the Right 
i Tobacco
Dallas, Texas March 22,1927Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
i The worst thing in the world to try to find is a good pipe tobacco that is well within the reach of everybody, and at the'same time does not taste like it had just come out of the cabbage patch. ^
I have been smoking a pipe for two years and have just this month started to smoke a real smoko, Edgeworth. If ut first you don't succeed, try, try 
again. Believe me, I tried for two years, but finally success is more than mine.I have just been looking around, and have found to my delight that I can get Edgeworth practically anywhere. I even found it out at the lake near Dallas where I go fishing. Oh boy, 
what a combinationa perfect day, a can of good tobacco, and your pipe.
I always thought these ad letters were the bunk, but this time I know 
Bomebody is wrong and that is me. Heres to old Edgeworth,
Edmund Condon
draftsmen and architects 
Cleveland district.
PITTSBURGH
Proflldent, G. Albert Wagner, caro The Kopporfl Compnny.
Vico Proflidont, L. II. Lee, 205 Stanwlx Stroot.
Socrotary-Troafluror, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY
Proflldent ,.T. M. Sampson,' 45 Bedford Street.
Vice Proflidont, J. L. Knight, care Genera 
Elcctrlc Company.Secretary and Troaaurer, Raymond Gill, 205 
Union Street.
ST. LOUIS
\ctlng Secretary, M. A. Zellar, care of Ham
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
President, John F. Meredith, 0907 West Fifth 
Stroot, Loa Angeles.
Vico President, Robert Finkelhor, 200 North 
Oakhurat Drive, Beverly Hlllfl.Secretary, Betty Finkelhor, 200 North Oakhurnl Drive, Beverly Hills.
Executive Committee, Jamcfl H. Knapp, 244 
North Wetherly Drive, Beverly Hills.
G. R. Brandin, 902 Transportation Building, 
Loa Angelos.
TULSA
Preaidont, II. G. Texter, care Standnrd SeamcIeX Tubo Company, 710 Mid Continent Building.
Vico President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 South 
Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and TronBuror, H. W. Penterman, 902 Mayo Building.
WASHINGTON. D. C.ProBldent, J. It. Arnold, 24 Second Street, N. W.
race down to fifteen girls. I The guests of the Clan are the memThe Varsity Clan invites all alumni' bers of Lhe various major teams at 
and students to its theater party1 ("arnegie, and this will be the secApril 16. Have you made your reseri 0,1(1 annual event of the kind, 
vatlons yet? The play at the Pitt for the theater
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae ! ?artyis( ';clutchi"S Produced
Association had to posLpone Its, Little 1 ly 'vl,at is I)rmise<1 be excelTheater party until May, but will lmve Ient Cast' and lrom tlle name o the
its dinner, dance,.and bridge in April.play, thrills should be abounding.
Watch the first Tartan after Easter : Tiukets for alumnl have been goingfor details quickly, and alumni who still desire
 I tickets should make reservationsProfessor Ely was appointed to the j soon> The price is five dollars for a
Pennsylvania State Sanitary Board in pair of geats Reservations should be 
anuaiy. J made through A1 Irwin at the Gym,
Say, Indianapolis, what are you do-' Carnegie Tech. 
ing? We heard you were starting a I Students are also Invited to the 
clan. Write us and tell us about it. 1 party. Tickets for students will be 
And how about all you active clans. I on sale at the Graduate Managers ofWe havent heard a word from any fice beginning the Tuesday after
of you for about three weeks.
Last Years Printers Are 
Praised For Their Work
Easter. From present indications 
the house will be sold out entirely to 
Carnegie Tech men and women, so 
that a truly collegiate atmosphere 
I will prevail.
j In addition to the play, the Clan 
; plans other special features, but
March 22, 1928.
Mr. Herbert Grau,
Alumni Editor, Carnegie Tartan 
C. I. T.
, Dear Herbert:
| In looking over the issue of the Tarj fan dated Tuesday, March 20, on the 
| Alumni page I notice a little item 
j marked Athletes, Have Lower Schol
astic Average than the Ordinary Stui dent according to the investigation 
made by the Carnegie Institute of 
| Technology.
i This^ item, appearing as above, is 
j incorrect, as the athletes at Carnegie 
i Tech are higher, scholastically, than 
j the ordinary student.- This was shown 
j in a report taken last year by Presi
dent Baker.
The Carnegie Foundation, of New 
j York City, which is in no way conj nected with Carnegie Tech, made an 
investigation and found that the th| letes in general are lower scholasti
cally than the ordinary student. This 
I is probably what you referred to in 
: this article, but it is very misleading. 
I For. general information, I would 
I like very much to have you publish the 
following: "The Freshman team of
i 1927 at mid-semester showed an aver! age of ten points per man higher in 
I quality points than the year before, 
| and that comparing the same team on 
j February 1, 1928, they showed sevenI teen points per man better than the 
Freshman team of the previous year. 
, Our Varsity team of this past year 
showed about the same improvement.
Sincerely yours, 
CLARENCE OVEREND.
KILTIE BAND RECORDS 
FOR PHONOGRAPH CO.
To Play Concert on Thursday; 
Plans Are in Order For Three 
More Concerts
A. L. LEWIS, TYPOTHETAE
HEAD, TALKS HERE TODAY
The American Printer for November * which they have refused to divulge at
of last year contains some comments 1 t,le present. So if you havent made
vi President, Harriet StapicH, 36H s Street;,' concerning the Printing Department ^ ynr reservations yet, do so immediSecretary and TreiiHurer, nE M. Pringle, 627'Carnegie which are worth further ately.Lexington Place, N.E. , notice. In the editors column we' ------------------------------
Youngstown, OHIO note the followingi f~* *1 A n
Prenidont. it. nE Bookmcyor, lciG Elm street.  .<My "ayu]flUo]1, Council Announces SecondVice Proflldent, I'red C. Bocdo, 1321 Hillman' ' LU..E.aiu.aLlo.lS ale extended streit. I to Porter Garnett, master of the
5n7w Y^kTv: Gm K,Connr' Laboratory Press at the Carnegie Instltute of Technology, Pittsburgh. At 
the same time I felicitate his students 
who have so ably expressed them(Continued From Page One.) 
can Folk Music. This Saturday A
On Thursday evening, March 22. the 
Carnegie Kiltie Band made a record
ing for a New York phonograph com
pany. The phonograph company is 
a private concern, so that the record 
was made under special contract. On 
one side Dear Old Tech and "On 
Carnegie-was recorded; and a new 
school march, Carnegie Tech, was 
played on the reverse side. Singing 
accompanies Dear Old Tech, and 
On Carnegie, while whistling is 
featured with the . march, Carnegie 
Tech. The Carnegie Kiltie Band is 
well-known all over the country, and 
the appearance of the record is eager
ly awaited; It will be on sale in Bud
dy Overends office next month.
The band will give'a concert at the 
Washington School in Mt. Lebanon, 
Thursday night, March 28, 1928. An 
added attraction is offereda special 
trio composed of piano, violin and 
cello.
It is anticipated that trips will be 
made in the future to New Kensing
ton, .Leetsdale and Youngstown. The 
trip to Youngstown will be for a week
end. The managers are working on 
these visits now; and they are being 
arranged for after the Easter vaca
tion.
The athletic council has sponsored 
these recent activits of the band.
Great French Symphony will be 
treated. These lectures will continue 
every Saturday evening until Easter 
at 8:30 in the Lecture Hall.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
THREE EXHIBITS AT 
CARNEGIE
Semester Rushing Rules
In accordance with the doctrine of
_ - . __________ the Interfraternity Council, the TarINSTITUTE selves as a result of his teachings, on tan is publishing this week, the rules
--------- the cultural and artistic sides of printand dates for Second Semester Iiusli(Contlnued From Page One.) ingMrGarnett, when lie started ing. .This year, the Council decided 
Returning to this country five years 1 he press a few years ago, inaugurated to resort to the same plan that was 
later her family took up residence in tiie custom of halving the students deadopted year before la'st, bringing the 
Philadelphia. Mary Cassatt studied sIgn set and Print a project from time 1 opening date just two weeks after the 
for a time at the Pennsylvania to Specimens number 37 to 55; mid-semester day. Friday, the last
Academy. This was her only formal have come along to my desk, and all .day of school before the Easter holiart training. In 1868 she returned to are of lliffh order. Most of them are day being the mid-semester day, the 
Europe and studied the Old Masters 5,1 ,,le Corm of !l leafhut some go 1 primary day of Rushing must necesIn the galleries of Spain, France, Italy furt;her and are issued as a folder or ! sarily open, at 8:30 Saturday morning 
and Belgium. IaH :I booklet. Samuel Weil designed oiuApril 14. From this time on the
In 1.877 Miss Cass.itt, at the invftatlie booklet in this lot. The Caslon same customary regulations as were 
lion of Degas, began to exhibit with tyPG face has never been better usod in vogue during the first semester 
the group known as ti e impressionl ,mn 0,1 ,,le l)nKes composed by Einar , season, must be adhered to. The 
1st s. At the presaut time her rn mlwho designed the initial used, j same investigation committee will
lugs are as much adu.ired by the Without looking at the names of the j work throughout the week and enforce 
academic painters as they are by students I selected two specimens for , the various rules which must be folthose of the more advanced school. I reproduction,""and found that both are | lowed.
Mary Cassatt Is best known as a 1 l)V 0,10 student. Nelson P. Mitchell. I
painter of mothers and children, n 1 wish I had room to reproduce all of
great many of the pictures in the pres<lu olllor specimens and to say soment exhibition depict the mother and thing nice about them. 
child theme. | T1,e students mentioned above are
Tlni exhibition will closo on April ! numbers of the 1927 class, and are
nth. 1 now out in the printing industry malcTho exhibition by Charles W. Haw______________________________
lhome opened March 7th and will j
close April 30th. Mr. Hawthorno has I t,uahas been chosen by the Pitt ( 
exhibited In'several of the InternaCaP and Gown, dramatic, club, for! school day.
Uonal Exhibits which are held every 
fitII in the galleries of Institute. In 
925 his painting The Captain, the 
Cook, and the First Mate" won the 
third prize and in 1926 ho exhibited a 
picture "The Captains Wife." His 
present exhibit includes 25 paintings. 
Twenty of these are portraits and the 
other five are landscapes.
WALTER B. RODGERS
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
CHAIRMAN RESIGNS
(Contim ed From Page One.) 
one on the preceding evening will be 
given for those unable to attend the 
final performance.
In selecting a theater for the pre
sentation of Wedding Bells 
committee will meet with many diffi
culties. The Pitt, the Nixon, and 
the Alvin, had all be signed up^ 
summer stock companies, and were 
not available. Some of the play
houses near the campus and in East 
Liberty were given consideration, but 
the committee realized that a down
town playhouse is in many ways su
perior. It was ifound that the Gayety was the only downtown theater 
available during Campus Week, and 
after investigating a little further, 
the contract was made. The Gayety 
enjoys the reputation of being the 
best theater In Pittsburgh for stage 
productions, having very good acousthe opening performance of their 
spring presentation some time next 
month, and next week will be used 
for the showing of The Passion 
Piny. The committee feels that the 
theater chosen will prove very satis
factory.
Seattle, Wash.The University of 
Washington Glee Club is to take a 
fourteen-day northern trip to the 
Northwest in which it will sing in sev\ 
oral Alaskan cities.
The Rushing weak will end on the 
followingSaturday night at 12:00. 
From that time until the following 
Sunday afternoon at 1:00 will be a 
silent period when no communication 
must lie made with any of Lhe fresh
men.
During the week, no freshman or 
prospective pledge must be in the 
house after nine oclock preceding a 
In fact the exact replica 
of last semesters rushing season will 
be seen again, except that this second 
semester offers approximately ten 
prospective men whereas the first 
season saw 308 freshman enrolled.
The schedule, then, is as follows:
Saturday, April 14  Beginning of 
Rushing Week (8:30).
Saturday, April 21, 12 p. m.End of 
Rushing and beginning of period of 
silence.Sunday, April 22, 1:00Acceptance
Come o*n in 
and spread!
COMES day when your family jpry themselves 
loose and send you a box of eats . . . cake four 
stories high, turkey, candied orange peel, 
fudge, and other good things.
The cry goes round. Your friends gather. 
Wash down the eats with Canada Dry. 
This ginger ale has a delightful flavor . . . 
tang to it . . . dryness . . . sparkle. It has a 
subtle gingery flavor because it is made from 
pure Jamaica ginger. It contains no capsicum 
(red pepper). It blends well with other 
beverages.
CANADA DRY
Keg. U. S. Pat. Off.
 The Qhampagne of Cjinger zAIes
Extract imported Jrom Canada and bottled in the U. S. A. by 
Canada Dry Ginger-Ale, Incorporated, 25 West 43rd Street. New York, N. Y.
In Canada, J. J. McLaughlin Limited. Established 1890.
DRY
Play it dark and cagyl 
The name Canada Dry" on the bottle cap means 
that no one can put over a Jast one on you.
CHUBBYOH, THATS NOTHING!By FRANK REILLY
* got -eR
THE EYAAA
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREfc
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that Is distinctively appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Calces, Ice 
Cream and Pastry. [Estimates on request.
STORE SERVICE 
CakesPastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candles ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
oivefcmcm&rCATERERS
FRANK BROTHERS
llfi Avciraue USooH Sla-op 
Pccwccn47> and-IB'Ji Streets,Newark
Pittsburgh Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE
MORROWFIELD APTS. TO 150 ATTEND PLUMBING 
BE SCENE OF SR. BALL; AND HEATING INSTITUTE
A forecast of tlie plans for t.lie 
Mens Senior Ball has been given by 
the committee in charge. The ball 
this year is scheduled for April 12 and 
is to be held in the Morrowfield Apart
ments. The committee of Seniors is 
headed by Charles Dickinson, Theta 
Xi, and the details of the plan which 
he and his committee have in mind 
will be worked out and announced in 
a later edition of The Tartan.
The Senior Ball this year, according 
to tradition, will be formal and for 
Seniors only. It is considered a dire 
breach of etiquette for a Junior or a 
Sdf)homore to attend and the 
presence of a Plebe would be sim
ply unspeakable. The orchestra for 
the evening will be the Collegiate Imps 
and the tax for the affair will he four 
dollars. The price of last years ball 
was three dollars and one-half, but this 
year a supper will be served In con
junction with the dance and this will 
he included in the four dollar fee.
The committee has not announced 
its choice in the matter of favors or 
novelties, but little fear is felt that 
the experienced band of Seniors will 
present-; a dull entertainment and this 
hall will be one of the very best of 
the late winter functions.
Business and Conditions of Busi
ness is Theme of Three Day 
Conference
Carnegie Now Has Chapter 
Of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia
Phi Mu Alpha, Sinfonia, took its" 
place among the campus lionoraries 
Sunday when the Clef Club, men's 
musical honorary, became a chapter" 
of that organization. The initiation 
was held in the Little Theater at one 
oclock Sunday afternoon, followed by 
the intallation banquet at the Fort 
Pitt Hotel at five oclock.
Edward F. Sullivan, better known as 
Sully, director of the Kiltie Band, 
was toastmaster at the banquet. The 
speakers included Peter Dykema of 
the Department of Music of* Columbia 
University, and national president' of 
the Sinfonia, and Norval Church, Gov
ernor of the Eastern Province of Sin
fonia, both of whom came from New 
York for the installation. Short ad
dresses were also made by Will Earhart, supeivison of Public School Mu
sic in Pittsburgh, J. Vick OBrien of 
the Department of Music, and Charles 
Boyd of the Pittsburgh Musical Insti
tute, old members of the Sinfonia and 
by the Carnegie Alumni who took the 
initiation including Alfred Johnson, 
Edwar Cerutti, Howdy Meredith, 
Leo Stimm.ler and Roman Eichenlaub. 
The honorary members initiated were 
Harvey B. Gaul, director of the Mens 
Glee Club and musical critic, for the 
Pittsburgh Press, Glendinning Keeble, 
acting dean of the School of Fine Arts, 
and Edward F. Sullivan, director of 
the Kiltie Band, each of whom also 
addressed the body. Eighteen active 
members were taken into the national 
organization: R. S. Boyd, W. A.. Conwell, F. W. Chapman, N. D. Cole, W. 
A. Loclcard, D. A. Miller, W. J. Poyntz, 
J. E. Chamberlain, W. A. Scott, G. L. 
Starr, M. W. Stump, J. R. Britton, D. 
R. Hill, H. E. Hames and C. E. 
Kumpf.
Much , credit is due to Neil Cole for 
his efforts toward getting the petition 
to Phi Mu Alpha acted upon favorably. 
He is president of the organization 
and a-very active member of the Kiltie 
Band.
OAKLANDS 
RESTAURANT 
for 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACHS
3808-10 Forbes Street
The fourth annual Three-Day Insti
tute for the plumbing, heating and 
ventilating industries was held last 
week from Wednesday, March 21 to 
Friday, March 23, at the College of In
dustries. These annual institutes are 
attaining wide national prominence in 
the fields of the plumbing, heating 
and ventilating industries since their 
origin at Carnegie Tech four years 
ago, and are models for similar con
ferences now being held in other parts 
of the country.
This years institute was the most 
interesting yet held and was attend
ed by about 150 men representing con
tractors, manufacturers and labor. The 
theme of the conference was "Busi
ness and the Conditions of Business 
in Relation to the Plumbing and Heat
ing Industries.
The main features of the confer
ence were the lectures, demonstra-' 
tions and discussions, especial interest 
being taken by the members of the in
stitute .in the discussion.
A special faculty composed of Professore Rittman, Dible, Blaisdell and 
Crandell of Carnegie Tech, conducted 
the lectures.
An interesting feature of the insti
tute was the attendance of ten grad
uatesof the Department of Plumbing 
who are now successfully engaged in 
business.
CAMPUS QUEEN CANDIDATESW.A.A. CONFERENCE HELD 
AT MT. HOLYOKE COLLEGE
At a meeting of the W. A. A. board 
on Monday evening of last week, Leah 
Milkman and Sally Iiulick were ap
pointed to represent the organization 
at tlie annual W. A. A. conference, 
which will be held this year at Mount 
Holyoke College, Hadley, Mass.
Both girls have been active in W. 
A. A. activities and will be instruj mental in influencing the work of the 
favor of this sections colleges. Leah 
Milkman, a Senior in Margaret Morri
son College, is president of the Social 
Workers Club, a member of Mortar 
Board and president of W. A. A. Sally 
I-Iulick, Junior in Arts School, enrolled 
in the Painting and Decorating De
partment, and member of Beta Pi, 
Arts social fraternity, was a represen
tative to this national conference 
last year.
The W. A. A. holds a national con
ference tri-annually. The two years 
In which* national conferences are not 
being held are devoted to intersec
tional meetings. This year an inter
sectional conference is being held at 
Mount Holyoke College, and is sched
uled to occur the week-end of April 
23. The program consists of confer
ences, classes and social events.
FIRST ARCHITECTS BALL 
TO BE HELD FRI. APR. 21
EIGHT ARTS; SEVEN
M. M. GIRLS CAMPUS
QUEEN CANDIDATES
Annual Banquet of Soph 
Women Held At Schenley
On Saturday evening, March 24 at 
the Schenley Hotel, Margaret Morri
son and Arts School Sophomore Woj 
men held their annual formal banj 
quet. This traditional event equalled j 
all precedents set by previous years | 
in its delightful air of formality com-, 
bined with a feeling of good fellow
ship and class spirit. The .delicious 
dinner was served in the Hotel Schen
ley in a high degree of perfection. The 
food met with hearty approval of the 
second year women and their guests. 
The black and gold of the menu cards, 
and the spring flowers which deco
rated the tables provided color and 
added to the gayety of the occasion.
The social committees of the two 
classes headed by IsobelSheppard of 
the Household Economics Department 
further proved the effectiveness of 
their hard work in the interesting pro
gram which followed the dinner. 
Grace Jarret, Arts Sophomore, was 
.toastmistress, introducing as first 
speaker Director Breed who was. fol
lowed by Dean Green, Margaret 
Wageley, M. M. C. Q. Class Presi
dent, Margaret Minor, Arts Sopho
more Vice President, and Josephine 
Sonneborn responded next with re
marks in keeping with the spirit of 
the occasion. Miss Alice Moore, 
Class Advisor, gave the address of the 
evening. The entertainment consist
ed of a Dutch Number by Katherine 
McMillan; three violin selections by 
Leota McNemary, of the Music De
partment; and a specialty number by 
Katherine Seybold.
The social committee in charge of 
the affair to which ts owing, to a 
large extent, the success of the affair, 
consisted of Margaret Keenoy, Cora 
Lee Henk, Virginia Morgan, Dorothy 
Hopkins, and Virginia Kerr from 
Margaret Morrison; and from Arts 
School, Blanche Bray, Jeannette Wil
son, Peg Minor, and Kay Dickey, with 
Isobel Sheppard as general chairman.
The Mud Room of tlie College of
Fine Arts will be the scene of the first j 
Architects Ball to be held on Satur| 
day* evening, the 21st of April, between ; 
the hours of 8:00 and 12:00. This is | 
the first function of Its kind to .be put : 
on by the Architects and nothing will i 
be overlooked that will lend to make i 
it the gayest, liveliest and most interj 
esting party ever given by an individ
ual department. Attendance is lim
ited to students of the Architectural) 
Department and Alumni.
The dance will be a costume affair | 
but the type or style of dress is opj 
tionalthe more ridiculous the better, j 
An interesting feature of the even
ing's entertainment will be stunts by j 
each class of the department while to I 
make it ever more attractive, punch ; 
and cakes will be served.
Inspiration for the dance evolved j 
from the disappointment of not having j 
another Arts Ball this year, so.an 
Architects Ball has been planned and 
has become a reality, thereby keeping 
the spirit of revelry alive. To make 
this a successful precedent the cfom{ 
mittee has worked to make It so. The ; 
committee is composed of J. Barr, 
chairman; R. Bullinger, R. Woods, W. ! 
Jones, R. C. Johnson and Pete Flani
gan.
(Continued From Page One) 
ing plade of the hated arm-bands. 
After them will come the Freshmen 
from Science and Industries.
The coronation plans have been al
most completed with the exception of 
deciding just where on the campus the 
ceremony will be performed. The de: 
cision of the committee will be an
nounced later. Sally Hulick is the 
chairman of the coronation. Lee 
Mitchell has written the pageant which 
deals with the medieval period and the 
costumes and setting will harmonize 
with this idea. Jean Breitweiser is 
designing the costumes and they will 
be made by Sally Jolly and her com
mittee composed of: Charlotte Wardale, Doris Purdum, Eleanor .Coleman. 
Charlotte Ball, Dorothy Robertson, 
Sara Bayne, Goldie Pinsky, Dorothy 
Cullen, Florence Boeliliber, Isabel 
Bergen, Lucille Persch and Marion 
Macliin.
TliG committee headed by Barbara 
Renwlck which has charge of tlio 
Campus Queen is made up of: Jean 
ette Folmar and Helen Whttehill In 
Arts School; Catherine Boyd and Mi
riam Cupps in Margaret Morrison; 
Helen Booth and Ruth Bramson In In
dustries and Isabel Warner and Kath
erine ODonnell In Science School.
The athletic program has not yet 
been announced. Dorothy "Roy is the
committee chairman aided by Isobel 
Sheppard, Cora Lee Henk and Dorothy 
Hill.
The publicity for the womens events 
will be in the hands of a committee 
composed of Catherine Boyd, chair
man; Rosemary Barr and Helen 
Whltehill.
Schenley 1125
Standard CleaningDyeing Co., Inc.
Standard Service Satisfies. 
EXPERTS ON LADIES 
GARMENTS 
Office and Cleaning Plant: 
702 REBECCA AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Branch Office 
4525 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School 11 A. 1W.
Wednesday evening services 8 to l>.
Forbes National Bank
Your Home Bank
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Thomas S. Baker
President Carnegie Institute of Technology
John G. Bowman
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh
John F. Casey
President, John F. Casey Company
Elmer E. Cole
President National Union Fire Insurance Company
A. REX FLINN
; President Duquesne Lumber Company
Director Booth & Flinn, Limited
Howard M. Johnson
Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad
Richard K. Mellon
President 
Director Mellon National Bank 
Director Union Trust Company
William S. Moorhead
. Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys
Henry A. Phillips
Real Estate
William S. Phillips
Vice President and Cashier
Edward R. Weidlein
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
Student Accounts Welcome.
This is distinctly your institution.- 
FIFTH AT OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
HP
A LAS KA
THE SUM M El/E il SETS W 
CU ESTERE! EID9 POPULARITY.*
Popular in all four 
corners of the earth!
7-BXiB2M,BmGsX good
taste has won the good will 
of the world. There is hardly 
a country in either hemi
sphere where Chesterfield 
will not he found a leading 
seller among American 
cigarettes.
SOUTH AMERICANEW ZEALAND

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
Suits *40, s45r s50 Topcoats
EPA GETWOHC HEERONIUTNI = 
RSSD GIRDT OG IYT ,0hartevjfous;e:s.
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
v will earn your most sincere liking.
AGEMAN & SPICKER
The Mens Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE
Music Notes'CARNEGIE TECH HAS 275 
STUDENTS ON PAY ROLL
Cosmopolitan Representation At Carnegie;
Only 23 % Of Students From Pitts. Vicinity
By SARA E. WONDERS
March 27 ' ^ considerable number of Carnegie
.  lift I i t iijj  students teach while being Laught aPittsburgh MuHlcal Institute reoi_
tals for the.last week In March inM1.??'6 are men anc* wmen stuelude an organ recital by Albert I denta who serve as night school inReeves Norton on Tuesday evening, 1 Htructprs or assistants in the various 
March 27, in the Institute recital j departments of the 'school. Altogether
there are 275 students on the insti-rortr'n. Mr. Norton will play a Fan 
tasie by Rousseau, Cesar .Franchs 
Choral In 13 major, new compositions 
by T. Carl Wliitmer and Harvey B. 
Gaul, and a number of attractive 
pieces by modern composers.
March 29.
On Thursday evening, March 29, the I 
pupils of the Butler studio will give a | 
recital in the First Presbyterian
tute payroll, 100 men and 79 women.
Many contribute to the student 
bodys trials as they serve as moni
tors-dining examinations and also 
mark papers. Others add to the stu
dents joy or possibly agony by serv
ing at the Commons and at the Grill.
Church of Butler. The players v/ill Those with mechanical skill are ernbe Margaret Hildebrand, Ellen Purvis, | ployed as electricians and mechanics. 
Janet Edmunds, Ronmlne Wolfe, I Others serve in laboratories of (lie 
Sarali Beitler, Ethel Kerr, Hanna Lardifferent departments of science as 
din, Kathryn Lewis, and Esther supply room attendants, instructors 
Boreale. % | and monitors.
Father Rossini will take his ad-i Some of the student york In the 
mlrable Polyphonic choir, and with dormitories, warehouses and work
shops of life Institute helping in thethe aid of Frank Cuthbert, basso-cantante, he will present his oratorio, 
The Son of Man" at Carnegie Music 
Hall, on Thursday night, March 29. 
John Sedlacek, organist or Epiphany 
Church, Js in charge of the orchestral 
arrangement of the work, and will
work necessary for the functioning of 
the Institute and increasing their ex
prience;
The registration line at the begin
ning of each semester is composed 
largely of students who do the acpreside at the organ on the night of | counting, bookkeeping and clerical
the performance. The orchestra of VV011C necessary in enrolling all the
thirty pieces was selected from among ! students.
the local symphony orchestra. I Those students who work for the
March 30. ! institute earn a large sum each year,
On Friday evening. March 30, tl.o  'lal 0f $18'000 a yenr' 
fourth recital in the series of His
torical Piano Concerto recitals will he '
Klven in the Institute recital room.
Helen Machette will play the Grieg 
Concerto in A minor, with Dallmeyerl 
Russell at the second piano; Frank 
Kennedy will nlav the Franck Sympli-1 
onic. Variations with Charles N. Boyd 
at the second piano; and Dallmeyer 
Russell will play the last movement
Seventy-three per cent of the day 
students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology come from outside of 
Pittsburgh, according to statistics re
ported by Alan Bright, Registrar of 
the institution. Out-of-town students, 
the report shows, represent 42 differ
ent states, the District of Columbia, 
and 17 foreign countries.
Of the 2,450 regular day time stu
dents enrolled this year, 670 live in 
Pittsburgh. Allegheny County, other 
than Pittsburgh, is claimed by 457 of 
the students, and 565 come from 
Pennsylvania homes outside of Alle
gheny county. Tills makes a total of 
1,692 students living in Pennsylvania.
The College of Fine Arts has the 
largest number of Pittsburghers on 
its rolls, 220 of the 659 Arts students 
claiming to be sons and daughters of 
Pa Pitt. The largest percentage of 
native Pittsburghers, however, is reg
istered in the Margaret Morrison Car
negie College where 183 of the 519 are 
native Pittsburghers.
Althou&h the College of Industries 
has the smallest total enrollment 
among the four colleges, it has the 
widest representation percentage with 
the 377 Industries students represent
ing 36 states, the District of Columbia, 
and six foreign countries. The 659 
students of the College of Fine Arts 
represeht 34 states, the District of
a total of $18,000 
large part of their payments to Car
negie Tech.
Greensburi Printing Co. 
Sends Students to C. I. T.
| The Standardized Printing Comi pany of Greensburg, Pa., in its house
. WT7,nn, c,onr,n c mlnor' TZ WtMM. with Maiian Olarlc Bollinger at the Carnegie Tech. They will attend 
second plnno. | classes 'three nights a week, studying
ch t*ie fine points of typogiMhy or comOn Saturday afternoon. March 31, . position,*tlie principle of balance and 
r a recital will be given in the Institute , layout, the technical side or proof 
! recital room by the Junior pupils. j reading, high grade work,'and other 
aDr; Charles Heinroth has been giv-, printing subjects. These young men 
ing a series of talks on Saturday oven-1 are gritting a most effective sort of 
r fugs during Lent, at 8:15 oclock in vocational education for in the class 
j the Cnrrtegie Music Hall. These leej1,00111 the theoretical side of the very 
' tures have been taking the place of -10,) they are working at every day is 
the Saturday organ recitals. The re* tudiert. To quote the Jiouse organ, 
J niaining lecture will be, "A Great schools of typography as conducted 
c Frenclu-Symphony (Cesar Franck) ,,n HO,ne of the technical schols, are 
u on March 31. turning out artists'whose medium is
y April 3. I type. Among these schools, Carnegie
a Rehearsals of the Mendelssohn Institute, in Pittsburgh, is outstahdchoir of Pittsburgh have boon in pro.1 ,nK  Tills printing company illua,a SVjCII for several weeks in preparation | trates the modern trend of printing 
' for the concort Tuesday, April 3, companies who prefer men having a 
ic when the "Passion According to St. [ Kcl training in printing departments 
E Matthew, by .T. S. Back, will he Riven. I of technical schools.
4 The repetition or this work, after the " -----------------
1 fluccessfui performance of last senj *ones, and she has lost none of hoi 
non, roanltod from the Insistent d<> 1 Porsonal attraction,
o' nmnd from many of the patrons that I Hor I'emarkablo control over her
[l? they might again hoar the Bach "Pas-! vonnl chords was demonstrated parnion" during tho Lenten season. j tlcularly in throe numbers in which, 
*. The soloists this year include Ethyl ftH *K her wont, slie chased the iltite 
Tlaydon, soprano; Grace Leslie, c6n*'!l|l) and down the scale. These num. 
tralto; Arthur Kraft;, tenor; T-Toward;-bbrs wore La Fauvette, from tho 
. Could, basso-eniitanlo; and Earl 
ici Mitchell, organist.
Jj April 5.
At. tho forthcoming concert of t;he 
iMttub'urgh Apollo Male Chorus, 
r<u Thursday,. April 5, at Carnegie Music "'ore 11 Httlo more entertaining. This 
' Mall, the cliib will prosont a novelty 1 VToup Included "An Old Song by 
' * n tho form of malo chorus attractions.
0PTln* njnn will offor Henry Cowell, the 
THE futurlsli composor-planlsl , Mr. Cowell 
|)0 v/HI play two' groups of his own com
positions.
m Alfred TTomor has boon giving a sot 
4 of four Sunday afternoon Lon Ion or3o Kail recitals at Trinity,
^ featuring one soloist at; each recital, 
F Fenton Russell, basso; Eldon Murray.
^violinist; Charles W. Hall, tenor; and 
ioiPierre de Backer, violinist.
Ferdinand Filllon will present sharp minor, and Debussys "General 
Vaughn William's "The Shepherd of j Ravine," with its odd rhythms and 
jrothe Delectable Mountains, a truly' Phrasing, and "La Plus Que Lent. 
M;dolectable oratorio-opera at Carnegie j They seemed to be designed to keep 
arMusIc Hall on Friday evening of Eashim in the background of the singing 
winter week. I wife, but brought out some good
ru .Associated with him are Mrs. aw-! plan ism withal. He encored with the 
~rence Litchfield and Oscar HelCehbein, j Gliopin "Raindrop prelude, much beand they will offer a novelty group loved by piano students.a
 or two pianos. The Williams work I --------------------l______j
(ill be supplemented with a string | Providence, R. I.Freshmen at thef
rcliestra and will be sung by the folBrown University are forbidden to 
owing soloists: Reed Kennedy, Ar-1 wear straw hats until Memorial Day.
thur Davis, Adam McNaughton, Reese
Columbia, and one foreign nation. 
Thirty-three states, the .District of Co
lumbia, and ten foreign countries are 
represented among ihe 554 students 
of the College of Engineering.' Stu
dents of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College come from eighteen 
states, and 341 members of the com
bined freshman class of the Colleges 
of Engineering and Industries are 
residents/6f 18 states, the District of 
Columbia, and four foreign nations.
Next to Pennsylvania with its 1,092 
students enrolled, Ohio has the larg
est representationwith 271. New 
York is third with 84, West Virginia 
has 73, and New Jersey and Indiana 
are tied for fifth place in the rank 
with 29 each. Other states with.com
paratively large "delegations* are
Connecticut, 28; Maryland* *25;' Illi
nois, 22; Michigan, 19; Tennessee, 
16; and Florida. 14. The District of 
Columbia is represented by 13.
Thirty-one of the day students come 
from outside of the United States. 
Canada leads with six, and Russia i3 
next with four. Three come from
France, and two each come from 
Mexico, Scotland, Palestine, and 
Sierra Leone, Africa. Foreign na
tions with one student enrolled are 
Belgium, China, Germany, Holland,
Hungary, India, Japan, -Rumania,
Sweden, and Turkey.
Contribs
century old, "Zemlr ot Azor of 
Gretry, "Tho Gypsy and tho Bird, by 
Benedict, and "Oui La Voce, from 
Bellinis "Purltanl.
Tho second of her lighter groups
! Buchanan, soft and pretty; "My 
Shadow/ by Samuals, simple luit ex
pressive; and Dobsons "By I,he Edge 
I of the Son.
I GalU-Curcl sang 10 oncoros, some 
of her groups taking throo and tour 
! on ending, some' of which were done 
Mr. TTomor Is ,n 11,0 fast, appealing stylo that al
ways has warmed Galli-Cunei to the 
1 hearts of her audience.
1 Samuals played one group of piano 
I numbers: Chopins "Polonaise in C
To probably quite a few men of the 
Schools of Industries and Science, 
this will be rather a "second-hand'' 
question, but perhaps a consistent irri
tation of the readers of "Contribu
tions might, in time, start a slow 
movement toward a more desirous 
condition in the Club Rooms of these 
j two schools.
The question is: Are these socalled elub-rooms, stationed here and 
there along the corridors, really 
I maintained, as. the epitaph on the 
door admits, or are they what they 
appear to bea stock-rpom for excess 
chairs? It; seems to be the ultimate 
 desirq of maintainers of these rooms 
j to bring about a feeling of home by 
I presenting as humble a chamber as 
may seem possible.
The Club rooms today are not used 
for the purpose for which they were 
intended. They are not the gathering 
place of various groups and societies 
for meetings and. good general get-to
gethers, but a place where greasy 
overalls, dirty lunch papers, ashes, 
and scraps leave their stain .\on the 
once-fair furniture of the room.
Perhaps, if the maintainers of 
these rooms might see fit; to lend more 
of a, spirit of comfort and cleanliness 
to their apartment by the addition of 
a rug, a magazine cabinet, a wicker 
chair, or tho, like, and then enforce 
I the upkeep of its appearance, a friend 
lier atmosphere might pervade. But 
conditions, as they now exist, do not 
I measure the. true worth of the club or 
| society u|)on which they depend, and 
| It Is hardly fair to or for this society 
to allow such a circumstance to bear 
on their name. Surely a little more 
Interest can ho taken.
M. B. M.
| Cincinnati, Ohio. -Tho University 
of Clnclmiatl will play host to the 1929 
mid-west student conference, it has 
been announced.
man trr iiiiiiiiiii'urr aranBoaKBmatra
! Madison, Wis.Equipped now with 
parts which werev missing from the 
original, the famous Muir clock at the 
University of Wisconsin once more 
I will. work.
j Muir was a.student at the university 
| more than a half century ago, and he 
j worked out a mechanical time-clock 
j which, when properly set, would bring 
I to his desk to which it was attached, 
j the book he should be Studying at the 
j time.- When the time was up..,the 
i main wheel would collapse, and anI other would'be brought in its place.
Tech Shoe Repairing
WE REPAIR RUBBERS 
For. Better Service and 
Workmanship 
4523 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig
LEARN TO DANCE *
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
J Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
| Saturday Evenings. Private lessons j ] by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
R.- Reese, Vincent Kroeu, and Fern 
Pillion, assisted by the Tuesday Mu
sical Choral.
MUSIC CRITICISM
Emory University, Ga.In an effort 
to find out the truth of a theory that 
the majority of upper classmen are 
opposed to organized athletics, the 
Emory Wheel, student newspaper, re
cently conducted a straw vote on the. 
matter, and found no truth in theBy JOE B. PATTERSON
Tl The fame of Amelita Galli-Curci, I statement. The students as a whole 
^coloratura soprano, filled Syria  1 ~n ......*
Mosque to overflowing last Thursday 
ce*aight in the final event of the May 
rtcBeegle Concerts this season. With 
113alIi-Curci were ITonmr Samuals, 
laroiarilst, and Ewald ITaun, flutist, 
sn Even with defects that are marring . 
vllip glory or the voice that onco was, 
^palli-Ou/rci still can easily win an j 
I juidionce. I-Ior middle register still | 
d litands forth with clear, fine, rich j
voted 3 to 1 in favor of unrestricted 
athletics.
A Friendly Bank
Each individual customer 
of the Mellon National Bank 
Is assured of n sincere inter
est in his financial affairs and 
a coslre to help him with his 
p 'Tblcms.
'specially Is this true of 
'C'.ing men and women who 
open accounts here. Come in 
and let us show you how to 
take the fullest advantage of 
the opportunities Offered by 
a banking connection with
Mellon National Bank.
Pittses?dh. Pa.
l\
There is a place for you 
in the Dental Profession
Never before have there been 
such excellent opportunities for 
men qualified as dentists and den
tal specialists. Train* for a pro
fession offering, a broad field in 
which you can make a place for 
yourself. Specialization in dentis
try opens the door to an assured 
future.
The Harvard University Dental Schoolthe oldest dental school 
connected with any university in 
Clie United Statesoffers thorough 
well - balanced courses in all 
branches of dentistry. All modern 
equipment for practical work under 
supervision of men high in the pro
fession.
Write for details and admission 
requirements to Leroy M. S. Miner, 
Dean.
Harvard University 
DENTAL SCHOOL
Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.
Oakland Savings and Trust Company
The Oakland Bank
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $500,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
C. B. Ayleswortli............................................President
Clyde . Taylor....................................Vice President
E. J. Miller............................... .........Vice President
O. 0. Young...................................................Treasurer
F. W.-Cotton.................................Assistant Treasurer
C. W. Fjhni,....................................................Secretary
Adam Roscoe................................Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORS
C. H. Kerr .John Diluting
R. Rogers Flannery Janies B. Clark
Barnev .DreyfuSs Clyde C. Tavlor
J. . Milier A. B. Sheets
R. J. Miller -C. Bi Aylesworth
A. J. Locffler John G. Pew
Member Federal Reserve System
The Bagpipe
The question asked this week was, 
What do you think of the conditions 
in the club rooms at this' school? 
James G. Bair, Sophomore in Metal
lurgy: The conditions of the club
rooms of the school have reached a 
very sad state. These rooms are 
placed for the benefit at, the student 
and should be used as such. Instead 
they are turned into rough houses. 
This situation should be' ended and 
the club rooms used as recreation 
rooms for all and not for a place to 
play football by a few.
Socrates Zacnarlas, Sophomore in 
Electrical Engineering: To my es
timation, the Science Club Room is 
one of the worst of all the schools. 
In the first place it is not kept sani
tary on account of the students throw
ing lunch papers and other useless 
articles around it. This can be im-1 
proved by placing some kind of a rej 
ceptacle in a corner of the room ! 
where all rubbish and papers could be 
kept together.
In the second place there should be 
more chairs in the-room to provide 
for everyone at all times.
Edward Waldfogle, Sophomore in 
Chemical Engineering: tfhe stu
dents attitude toward conduct in i 
club rooms is, to say the least, very i 
perverted: Absolute quiet is not lie-1
! ing of apple cores and ^banana skins 
I is hardly to be commended. Disci
pline should not be necessary in such 
a case. The library is kept quiet 
! enough for study without enforced 
! discipline. Why should not the club 
rooms be kept as a place for study as 
I well?
j John Boyle, Freshman Engineering: 
i .In my opinion the room set aside in 
i the Science Building as a student 
i club room is hardly deserving of such 
i a name! An institution like Carnegie 
j Should be able to furnish its students 
I with better lounging quarters than 
! they have at present. The place Is 
 never clean and the few -bare tables 
j and chairs are anything but cornj fortable."
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
GIVES FENCING 
EXHIBIT AT KAUFMANNS
On March 17 and 24 the Drama De
partment of Arts School gave an ex
hibition of fencing in the sporting 
goods department of Kaufmanns. Mr. 
j G. W. Postgate is instructor of the 
j fencing class. The first part of the 
j exhibition took the form of a modern 
i fencing bout with attacks and parries,
I illustrated. A Russian sabre fight in 
I costume was then staged. The third 
part of the program was a single com
bat between a gentleman with a eane 
and a man with a club. The exhibi
tion was brought to a close with a
One of the Smith Brothers meets the 
manufacturer of Old Gold, cigarettes.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
ALPH TAU MAKES CALL Musical Clubs Hold Very ! Auel And McMullen Y.M.C.A. Prints Message 
AT INDUSTRItS SMOKER Successful Home Concert Qjye Qyjj Lectures Of Church Association
The annual Industries smoker Sat
urday was the usual great affair. This 
year science students came over to 
visit since they had no stag. The. two 
got along nicely.
The evening opened with a news 
reel on the screen and a feature 
movie. Then ^Director Jewett officially 
opened the affair with his address. 
He recalled the wonderful progress of 
the school in its short life, the great 
number of active valuable men it had 
turned out, and looked towards the 
future with optimism.
Following Director Jewett came the 
Printers who performed for the multi
tude. The stunt was verj' clever, not 
too hot, and pulled laugh after laugh.
Then came the big event of the 
evening. Alpha Tau made its call. 
Alpha Tau is the Industries honorary, 
corresponding to Tau Beta Pi in En
gineering and Phi Beta Kappa in Lib
eral Arts Colleges. To be eligible for 
Alpha Tua one must have an average 
of 4.00 with no outstanding Fs or lls. 
Bror Zachrison, Wayne Crouse, Blain 
McLeod and Clyde Park were the se
niors called; Dewitt Hopper, Emerson 
Boyd. George Harbisou, Frank Thom
as, Charles Weatherell, Robert Wray 
and Robery Welirle, juniors; George 
Becker, high sopomore. High sopho
more is the only sophomore in Alpha 
Tau and is chosen from the highest 
four men in Industries;. Initiation will 
probably be held in April at Webster 
Hall and Red Godden will be there to 
speak.
With the call over,' the feang went 
on witli the spree. Building Construc
tion revealed their last years prize 
stunt. Then A1 Minetti started. A1 
always can be counted on to star and 
he certainly didnt disappoint anyone. 
Works Management presented their 
"song and dance' and the stunt cer
tainly pleased the boys.
The popularity contest and the tin 
plated leather medals bestowed on the 
most popular student, the best dressed 
one, the biggest liand-shaker and the 
biggest grip. The faculty presented 
their handsomest and their most lady
like. She was nice.
By this time the judges were ready 
with their decision. Of course, every
one agreed;
The climax of the evening came 
when eats were fed to the gay. They 
disappeared in no time.
The whole evening was a success 
and it can he attributed to the ability 
of Jim Hughes and his committee.
The combined Glee Clubs gave a de
lightful program for the benefit of the 
appreciative audience which attended 
their twenty-third annual home con
cert at the Music Hall Friday night. 
The members were sufficiently varied 
to allow each of the club to demon
strate its skill and still prevent any 
feeling of tedium to settle upon the 
listeners.
The two soloists of tlieN evening 
were high lights on the program. Paul 
Brautigan, a sophomore in the depart
ment of music, in his Captain Strat
tons Fancy displayed his pleasing 
baritone voice to great advantage. 
His diction also was splendid. John 
Brletic, senior student of violin, show
ed very much technique, his tones be
ing very true and exact.
The offerings of the Mens Club 
were divided into three groups, and in 
these they showed a very noticeable 
improvement over last years concert. 
Walter J. Poyntz,the student director, 
displayed very good leadership and 
poise in his conducting. This is the 
first time in the history of the Musical 
Clubs that the student director has 
been in charge of the home concert. 
Alfred H. Johnson, who has been di
recting the Girls Club Cor the past 
two years, showed complete control 
over voices through his musicianship.
At the dan'ce which followed the 
concert, the rhythmic melodies of A1 
Rowlands College Club Orchestra 
held the dancers in sway until one 
| oclock. The simple decorations suf
ficed to subdue >the lights and lend a 
! pleasing atmosphere to the Union.
I Much is due to Wilbur Scott, mana| ger of the Mens Club, for the success 
of the club this year, and especially 
the success of the concert. Miss Dor
othy Roy of tlie^ Girls Club and Rob
ert Boyd and Carl Fry were also in 
charge of preparations for the event.
Sweepstakes Committee 
Making Plans For Event
Cincinnati, Ohio.Herbert Hoover 
scored still another coljegiate victory 
last week when he was the first choice 
for President of the United States of 
the students at the University of Cin
cinnati. Hoover received 1,281 out of 
XL total of 2,19.4 votes cast. Smith was 
next with 436 votes.
Dan Campbell and his Campus 
Week sweepstakes committee are go
ing ahead with plans for the annual 
inter-fraternity races.
The committee is in hopes of mak
ing this years race the best so far, 
but in order to do this they need the 
full co-operation of the fraternities. 
I They wish to make a special appeal 
to the Greek-letter men to oil tip their 
J speed wagons and to get their drivers 
and pushers in first-class condition 
for the gruelling contest. .The course 
over which the race is to be run is a 
very difficult one and comprises the 
hills'in front of the gym and along
side Industries, consequently the men 
who provide the locomotive power 
will have to be supplied with plenty 
of endurance.
Carnegie Tech Seniors Dis
cuss Industrial Projects at 
Last Civil Seminar
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new  shadowweiglit  felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established 1872
At the last civil seminar, held Wed
nesday, March 21, papers were deliv
ered by Mr. C. C. Auel and Mr. S. A. 
McMullen. Mr. Auels subject was 
Civil Engineering in the Oil Field, 
while Mr. McMullen spoke on Hydro
electric Development at Conowingo. 
Both of these men are seniors in the 
Civil Engineering Department at Car
negie Tech. For the remainder of the 
weekly seminars, similar papers will 
be delivered by all the seniors of this 
department.
Mr. Auel, in his paper, first discuss
ed the proceedure of opening the oil 
fields, in which he brought out the 
methods of overcoming the disadvan
tages offered by the isolated location. 
He brought out the fact that speed is 
the main factor in the development of 
these fields, while cost and perman
ence come second. One of the great
est disadvantages of newly opened 
fields is the lack of good roads. This 
condition is present probably because 
if the oil companies desire roads they 
must construct them themselves; and 
they do not feel that there is need for 
so great an expenditure as this. Mr. 
Aul next discussed the details of pro
duction and distribution. The oil com
panies continually have engineers sur
veying new lands, making maps, and 
geologists inspecting the land in an at-, 
tempt to find new fields. Under the 
production details, the planning of oil 
camps was considered, as well as the 
methods of proceedure in drilling, and 
the discussion of the oil refineries. 
Under distribution, pipe lines was 
the chief subject considered. Much 
planning is necessary in the building 
of a pipe line, the work being quite 
similar to railroad planning in that 
switches, pumping stations, etc., must 
be provided for. The longest pipe line 
in the United States now is 12,000 
miles long. Many engineering prob
lems are brought out in the construc
tion of these lines, especially from the 
Texas fields, which produce oil with a 
high paraffin content, making it dif
ficult to pump in cold climates.
Mr. McMullen, in his talk on 
Hydro-electric Development at. Cono
wingo, discussed chiefly the Cono
wingo dam development, on"the Sus
quehanna river, two miles south of 
Conowingo, Maryland. The develop
ment is being sponsored by the Phil
adelphia Electric Company, and is 
second to Niagara only in size. It was 
built .at a cost of $52,220,000; and, 
while the first unit is not scheduled to 
be put into u&3 until next July, it is 
expected that all seven units will be' 
operating by that date, since the con
tractor is about six months ahead oL 
his schedule.' The building of this 
dam necessitated the building of three 
railroad bridge's, and three tunnels in 
the relocating of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad which would have been 
flooded by the lake caused by the dam. 
The dam is some 4,600 feet long, the 
spillway'itself taking up about onelialf the entire, length. The structure 
is of -solid masonry construction. 
Which includes a highway also. 
Ideal conditions were present for the 
building of this dam, the' river being 
quite narrow at this point, and bound
ed on either side by high rocky land. 
An excellent rock foundation was also 
found in the river bed, which'made 
necessary the removal of 400,000 cubic 
yards of solid rock. Much of this 
rock was crushed and used as large 
aggregate in the concrete. The idea 
of this dam at Conowingo is nothing 
new, since it lias been considered for 
the last 30 or 40 years.
i There came to the Tartan office last 
I week, through the Y. M. C.* A. a large 
j placard or poster with the heading:
| "What the Church has to Offer to 
I Men." Taken from the Daily Princetonian, the article formed an interest
ing advertisement in the interests of 
the Y. M. C. A. work. - It was a benu! tiful message, prepared by one hun
dred American clergymen of various 
denominations, whose preaching has 
appealed to men to an unusual de
gree. Only the high spots of it can 
be touched upon here, but the message 
in its entirety is one that could be 
beneliciently published in some man
ner on the Carnegie campus. Chapel 
this year, though still in existence is 
really barely so, and a solution of the 
problem appears as part of this docu
ment. There is a strong appeal, at 
j any rate, to the young men of the 
I Carnegie age, to reconsider their con
cept of chapel, and take more in a 
serious mood, the idea of such activity 
j as it embodies. The church, as the 
message states, brings an authentic 
(message from God, it offers acquaintI anceship with the great men of the 
past, and a fellowship with the host 
I of world-wide believers. It offers a 
| comradeship of worshippers, a task 
full of inspiration, a moral advehture 
j of unequaled human experience, a 
comradeship with the Divine in the 
I affairs of life and a solutibn of the 
I problems of sin and equaly grave sub
jects. Surely more interest in the Y.
I M. C. A. and the experience gained 
would constitute a major portion of 
I the real education to be derivecUfrom 
j college life.
t___________
i  n L 1 ^ix Women Hold PositionsAir Fockets j 0n the 1928 Thistie Sta{{
The next meeting is Tuesday, 
March 27. Curly Lovejoy is the 
speaker.
"Curly Lovejoy is an airmail pilot 
from Bettis Field, and he promises an 
interesting time. "Curly' will give 
instructions on the handling of a 
plane while in the air.
The "Wings will be given out at 
this meeting. They have been de
layed almost, two weeks, and members 
of the club have been anxiously await
ing their arrival.
Watch next .weeks Tartan for an
nouncement of aeronautical engineer
ing.
Bedgets Considered at 
Student Council Meeting
j A bright young college stiule found 
i this tacked up on the wall of the 
Profs private office:
All you men who want to go to the 
j Naval Academy have a good chance if 
you can figure the answer to this lit
tle one. If it takes a woodpecker with 
a rubber billa month and a half to 
bore a hole through a cypress log big 
enough to make 177 shingles at $1.50 
a thousand, liow long will it take a 
cross-eyed grasshopper with a cork 
leg to kick the seeds out of a dill 
pickle?
ORDER YOUR EASTER EGGS AT
Candy Land
6214 PENN AVENUE EAST LIBERTY
FRUIT AND NUT OR SHELL EGGS 
Names put on free of charge. Prices 50c to $5.00
Delivered Anywhere.
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Pit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
[ OxIM^l RESS 
ICE 1
VIS I PROGREi SERV ^CHARACTER /
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 E. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
rAUrMANNX
FIFTH AVENUEPITTSBURGH
Ann Arbor, Mich.Uncovering an 
old university catalog, the Michigan 
Daily has discovered that it cost a stu
dent from $70 to $100 a year to attend 
the University of Michigan in 1874. 
Rooms with janitor service cost from 
$5 to $7.50 a year, anywhere in Ann 
Arbor.
In those days, the Daily reports, 
there were only 92 students with a 
graduating class of 12.
A number of budgets were present
ed at the Student Council meeting last 
Tuesday, evening. March .20. Among 
those approved were the home concert 
budget, including a list of complimen
tary tickets, and the budget for the 
Industries smoker. There was some 
discussion about the lack of a quorum 
at the meeting so it was finally de
cided by motion that those members 
of council present at the meeting act 
as a committee-of-the-whole, taking ac
tion subject to the approval of the ab
sent members.
A resolution of the previous meeting 
was then accepted, namely, that the 
Student Council petition for the* third 
and the fourth of May as the dates of 
Campus Week. This resolution was 
made because of the interscholastic 
track meet which is to be held here 
on Saturday, the fifth, and may con
flict with Campus Week plans.
"Is she talkative?
"Even her teeth chatter.
The  following advertisement was 
quoted in The New Yorker of January 
28, as having appeared recently in the 
Allentown Chronicle and Newtf: 
"WantedThree girls to go to 
fraternity dance at Lehigh on Wed
nesday evening, with three 'fraternity 
men visiting from Carnegie Tech. 
Must be good dancers, very attractive, 
and good . disposition. Send photos 
and general description.
The work being done by the six 
girls who serveon the staff of the 
Thistle this year is receiving much 
favorable comment from the other 
members of the Thistle staff. Gladys 
Connor, a Junior in the Library De
partment at Margaret Morrison, lias 
shown an unusual amount of execu
tive ability in directing the work of 
the other girls and in her share of 
editing the Thistle. The co-operation 
of the girls on the staff has resulted 
in unusually rapid progress in all de
partments of the work.
Rhoda Drew, a Junior in the Arts 
College, is doing notable work as As
sociate Arts Editor. She is assisting 
Ralph Hitchcock in attending to the 
work of making cuts, a difficult, 
phase of the publication of the 
Thistle.
Gertrude Zenk, Organization Editor, 
a Junior in the Library Course, is in 
entire charge eft securing and editing  
the write-ups about the various wo
mens activities, clubs and athletics. 
A great amount of responsibility is 
entailed in the handling of this work.
The more routine and mechanical 
but equally necessary work of typing 
manuscripts, writing business letters 
and caring for details not directly in 
charge of the other members of the 
staff is cared for by three secretaries, 
Annabel Turner, Alice I-Ienk and 
Trene La Londe, all Juniors in the 
Secretarial Department.
Eugene, Ore.What the Associated 
Students of the University of Oregon 
would not do for fellow students in 
distress, a professor has done.
After having been marooned in New 
York City on a diet of coffee and 
doughnuts for more than a week, the 
University of Oregon Round the 
World Debating team was able to con
tinue its cruise as a result of a finan
cial loan made by a member of the 
Oregon faculty^
The Oregon men will engage in 
more than 30 debates in this country 
before they return to their alma 
mater.
Amherst, Mass.After 36 years as 
coach at Amherst College, Professor 
Richard F. Nelligan has resigned his 
position to take effect July 1, 1928.
Music Lightens Toil
The best popular music on Victor Records, by the world's best nrtists 
at your nearest dealer.
Hughes Music Box Mayflower 5575
MORTAR BOARD HOLDS 
TEA FOR HONOR STUDENTS
Mortar Board, womens national 
Senior honorary, held a tea in the 
Women's Club room on Friday aftes 
noon, March 16, in honor of the 32 
girls who attained the highest schol
arship records last semester, in their 
respective classes. The list of girls 
to be so honored included the five 
highest in each class from Margaret 
Morrison, and the three highest in 
each class from Art School. Miss
Mary Watson Green, .Miss Mary 
Breed/ Mrs. Weaver, the four Mar
garet Morrison class presidents, a;nd 
the Arts vice presidents were also in
vited. Miss Mildred Young, President 
of Mortar Board, acted as hostess.
(Realizing the number of students 
eligible for this research work, we 
print this as a suggestion, for the de
partment of psychology.) Six Col
gate University students are sleep
ing their way through college. The 
members of this slumbering sextette 
get their tuition free for sleeping 
under observation of the professor 
of psychology. The latter is aiming, 
through experiments, to help the suf
ferer of Insomnia and is studying 
the effects of food, posture, cover 
weights-, hot or cold baths, and ^var
ious springs and mattresses on the 
sleeper.
Columbus, Ohio.That personality 
is worth more to a student than 
grades is the belief expressed by Dr. 
Edward R. Weidlein, of the Mellon In
stitute of Pittsburgh, speaking before 
a campus group at the Ohio State Uni
versity.
They say PA*
Is the worlds largest 
seller
I DONT doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just 
open a tidy red tin and get that full fragrance 
of Natures noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then 
tuck a load in the business-end of your old 
jimmy-pipe.
Now youve got itthat tastethat Leadme-to-it, Gee-how-I-likc-it taste! Cdol as a 
condition. Sweet as making it up. Mellow 
and satisfying. Try this mild, long-burning 
tobacco, Fellows. I know youll like it.
i>RINGE ALBERT
- -the national joy smoke!
You can pay more 
but you can't get 
more in satisfaction.
 1928, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Wmatoa-Salcm, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

eAGE PAGTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928
n\&iSr..rM
'WmiHAu
INTRA-MURAL BRIEFS
The last week of Intra-Mural 
basket ball contained many interest
ing Incidents, Theta XI, Phi Kappa 
and McGill Hall cinching champion
ships.
The D. U.'s weresomewhat sur
prised at the opposition they received 
from the Pi K. A.s. When the final 
whistle blew they found that they 
had lost by one point.
The Phi Kaps had another game 
chalked up to their credit on Monday 
night when they defeated the Beta 
Sigma llho's. The Beta Sig.s played 
a good game but were unable to score 
to any extent against their superior 
rivals.
High School Trackmen to 
Meet Again At Carnegie
The annual interscholastic track 
and field meet for high schools will 
be held on May 5 at the Carnegie bowl. 
This is the same Saturday that Cam
pus Week falls on.
Invitations have been sent to about 
six hundred schools in Ohio, West 
Virginia, New York, and Pennsylvania. 
It is expected that between one thou
sand and one thousand live hundred 
athletes will be here for the meet.
The managers would like for all the 
men who live out of town and are go
ing home for Easter to see the coaches 
of their high schools and if they have 
received invitations to urge them to 
send a full team to the meet.
Walk and Wright were responsible 
in most part for the Pella Phi Delta's 
victory over Boss Hall.
The S. A. E.s with Rivet, Tibbets 
and Burnside, playing a successful 
offensive game easily vanquished the 
Plii Psis.
Henderson Hall defeated their rival 
Welch Hall witli very little difficulty.
Delta Mu lost another game to 
Alpha Sigma Phi. The AlphaSig.'s 
had to do some tall stepping to effect 
their victory though.
Nu Delta Alpha astonished the Sig
ma Nu's with such a succession of 
snowbirds that they were unable to 
even play a good defensive game.
The" A. T. Os, another dark horse, 
won from the Beta's, the score being 
13 to 10.
One of the most exciting games of 
the week was the Theta Xi-Kappa Sig. 
game. Theta Xi won with a margin of 
four points.
Both Scobel Hall and Kappa Sigma 
Rho were playing an offensive game 
in their engagement. The final score 
was -13 to 23.
Columbus, O.(IP)Prof.  Harold 
R. Walley of the Department of Eng
lish at Ohio State University, has the 
distinction oi being the first regular 
faculty member to be hailed into the 
Ohio State undergraduate traffic 
court.
He was summoned into court on a 
parking charge. His explanation was 
that he never could find a place to 
park when coming to his class, and | 
that he inadvertantly parked at a spot j 
which was supposed to be left clear | 
for the junk mans cart.
The student court mildly reprimand
ed the professor, and let him off withj 
out a fine.
ANNUAL INDOOR CO-ED PHI KAPS VICTORS IN 
GYM MEET TOMORROW FIRST GAME OF FINALS
The annual indoor meet will be held 
in the girls gymnasium tomorrow at 
4:40 p. m. Danish fundamental gym
nastics, introduced this fall, are in
cluded in the program. Visitors and 
people interested in gym work are in
vited to attend.
This fheet is the culmination of the 
years training in the gym, and is held 
every spring to decide which class can 
put on the best exhibition. There are 
four teams which will compete; the 
freshmen and sophomore teams from 
Margaret Morrison and Arts School. 
All the contestants have been practic
ing daily under the supervision of 
Miss Russell and Miss Yeakel, gymnasium instructresses. The teams are 
judged by outside judges and the win
ner is presented with a silver cup.
Minneapolis, Minn. (IP)  That 
the University of the future will sup
port its finest students at the expense 
of the state is the belief of Prof. J. M. 
Thomas, assistant dean of the Senior 
College at the University of Minne
sota.
The plan of awarding scholarships 
of material value to. those high school 
students who had high honors in their 
work was instituted at the university 
last fall, and is declared by Dean 
Thomas to be a step in the direction 
he is heading.
The Intra-Mural Basketball Cham
pionship Series opened last Friday 
night. The Phi Kaps clashed with 
McGill Hall in a game, full of thrills 
from start to finish. A five-minute 
I overtime period was required to de
cide the winner. When the final 
j whistle blew the Phi Kaps were in 
j the lead by two points. Eyth made 
j some spectacular shots from all parts 
of the floor. The Connelly boys were 
j also in the limelight, making almost 
half'Of the total number of points, 
j Warso, Foley, and Roper were the 
: outstanding players for the dorm men. 
j The lineup:
Phi Kappa35. McGill Hall33.
I R. Connelly ........F.................... Warso
I T. Connelly .........F.......................Foley
| J. Woods .............C.................... Roper
Eyth ...................G.................. Himes
Schmid ...............G............... Gingrich
j Substitutions as follows: Phi KapI pa: F. Woods for J. Woods, Ritter for 
| Schmid, Baum for F. Woods. McGill 
Hall: Cera for Himes.
Field goalsR. Connelly 3, T. Coni nely 2, J. Woods 2, Eyth 4, Ritter 1, 
j Warso 3, Foley 2, Roper 2, Gingrich 1. 
j FoulsR. Connelly 4, T. Connelly 
| 2, Eyth 4, Ritter 1, Warso 5, Foley 2, 
Roper 6, Gingrich 2, Himes 1, Cera 1.
Last night the Phi Kaps played 
Theta Xi. Tomorrow evening McGill 
Hall will1 play Theta Xi. This game 
will end the finals.
McGill University, MontrealA lecI ture on The Cathedrals of France 
! was given at the Cercle Franais of 
j McGill University of Professor P. F. 
McCullagh stressing the point  that 
I the Cathedral is the Bible of the poor 
' man. Professor McCullagh once 
made a bicycle tour through France 
and has made a close study of the 
cathedrals of the country. Under the 
topic of nature in relation to cathedral 
art, he brought up the facts that the 
animals used on the face of cathedrals 
expressed the important part animals 
played in the religious beliefs of the 
people of the twelfth, thirteenth and 
fourteenth centuries. Illustrating the 
general topic of morality, the pro
fessor had much to say about the 
sculpture groups depicting the virtues 
and vices. These are all of a very 
naive character, and  depict well th-a 
medieval mind in the conception of 
virtue and vice as material beings. 
Church history was however by far
the most important, and it has been 
sculptured with much magnificence. 
Scenes from the life of Christ pre
dominate.
Princeton, N. J. (IP)Only one 
j hundred out of one thousand college 
; undergraduates today can be said to 
I be religiously minded, according toI President Ernest Hatch Wilkins, of 
Oberlin College, who gave the openi ing address at the gathering ofcoli lege presidents here recently to dis! cuss the problem of undergraduate rei ligion.
! According to Wilkins ten per cent 
| of the student body, feels itself defin1 itely opposed to religion, eight per 
i cent are religiously minded.
The president declared that this isj nothing about which to become alarmj ed, for the students are showing their 
! sincerity in the manner in which they 
i attack their problems of life.
FOR SALE
V VACATION CAR
9-B Franklin Sedan
$100
CALL MAYFLOWER 8094
Delta Tau Delta had to admitde
feat when they met McGillHalllast
Thursday.
Last Week's Scores.
National League
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.... .14
Phi Kappa Psi........... . 4
Henderson 1-Iall ............*>2
Welch Mall .................... .11
Nu Delta Alpha ............22
Sigma Nu ........................ .10
Theta Xi .........................
American League
Phi Kappa ................,11
Beta Sigma Rho ............7
Pi Kappa Alpha..............ir
Delta Upsilon ...............14
Alpha Tnu Omega ...........13
Bota Theta PI ..................10
Scobell Ilall ......................43
Kappa Sigma Ubo ...........23
Federal League
Delta Phi Delta ...............14
Boss TIall ......................... .11
Alpha Sigma Phi............... 16
Delta Mu ........................
McGill Hall ...................
Delta Tau Delta............... 25
Final Intra-Mural League Stand
ings.
National League.
W.L.Pet.
Theta Xi ......................... 701000
Kapp Sigma..................... 52714
Nu Delta Alpha ............. 43571
Sigma Nu ...................... 3 3500
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.... 3442S
Henderson Hall .............. 34.42S
Phi Kappa Psi................. 15100
Welch Hall ..................... 10.143
American League.
W.
Phi Kappa ....................... 7
Beta Theta Pi................. 5
Scobell Hall ................... 5
Delta Upsilon ................. 3
Pi Kappa Alpha ............. 3
Beta Sigma Rho ............. 2
Alpha Tail Omega .......... 2
Kappa Sigma Rho.......... 1
Federal League.
W.
McQill Hall ..................... 7
Sigma Phi Epsilon.......... 4
Alpha Sigma Phi ............ 4
Delta Phi Delta............... 4
Boss Hall ......................... 3
Phi Sigma Kappa.............2
Delta Tau Delta .............. 2
Delta Mu .......................... 0
L/. Pet. j
.0 1000 
2 .714
2 .714
4 .428
4 .42S J
5 .280
5 .280 !
G .143 j
Pet.
1000
.800
.42S
.428
.500
.333
.280
.000
Classified Advertising Accepted
J RATES  50 cents minimum 
j for 25 words or less; 2 cents for
each additional word. Cash in 
advance.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Still another leading tobacco
nist in Pittsburgh, Pa., says:
"The growth of OLD GOLD 
Cigarettes popularity here 
has been amazing to me, but 
what interests me most is the 
way students stick to the brand 
after they start smoking it. OLD 
GOLD smokers dont switch
University Restaurant 
4605 Forbes St.
For a most refreshing change:
"Follow your friends and smoke 
this smoother and better cigarette
P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
WOMENS RIFLE TEAM 
WINS NATIONAL HONOR IN 
INTERCOLLEGIATE MATCH
It seems but a very short time siuce football season, with its attendant 
liullabaloo, but already the call is issued for spring practice, to commence two 'weeks from today, the day,school resumes after Easter vacation. Training 
'will last from two to three weeks, with tougheuing-up exercises coming first, 
followed by scrimmages.
'Twill be a welcome sight to see last falls unbeaten plebes swinging into action in varsity uniforms, furnishing new, strong blood to a*.weakened team. 
Judging from past performances, many regulars are going to have a fight on 
-hand to retain their berths on the first eleven.
George Washington Univ. Captures 
First With Score of 2972; 
Carnegie Third
Again the Womens Rifle team has) 
brought honor to Carnegie Tech by j 
winning third place in the National 
Rifle Association Match held several 
weeks ago. This is aii improvement j 
over the scores made by last years !
Counting chickens before they arehatched is an uncertain business, if 
the grade school copy books are to be believed but we nevertheless must admit that football prospects for next fall are exceedingly bright. Of course,
an undefeated team is quite a bit to hope for, but if it is possible to turn j teams which placed fourth in the ini
one out with the material at hand, Wally Steffen is the coach to do it. rtercollegiate match. Twelve univeri
j sities from all parts of the United Last. Saturday five Carnegie riflemen, the pick ot the varsity team, bat; states competed in this annual match tied through the Pennsylvania-West Virginia N. R. A section match, to land wh,ch WRS flre(] h| th , ,
third place. The Skibo sharpshooters topped Penn. Pitt and Drexel, and were . , r .. ,
topped hy West Virginia and Penn State. :0Ter a Pe"0" 01 thrae 'veeks-Although rifle matches are, as a rule, anything but interesting to witI The match was won by the team !
ness, there was something tense and gripping down at the range on Saturi representing George Washington Uni-!
day, watching five man teams jumping to the firing line at the sound of a | versify, Washington, D. C.. Bett.v ! 
whistle, to shoot several volleys and retire for another team tp take its Clark, Captain, with a total score of 
place. ***,,*** ! 2972. Maryland University, College j
| Park, Maryland, placed second with !
score of 2953. Carnegie Tech was j 
I third with a score of 2915. The scores 
I of the other, nine teams were as fol| lows:
West Virginia. Morgantown, W.
I Va., 2S96.The intra-mural basket ball season is about over. The three finalists,! TTnivprm'tv nf Wnqliinetnn Santt-le Theta Xi, Phi Kappa and McGill Hall, have been lighting it out for several : Wa=h 2SSG wasmnst011- heatueHava now Phi Knnnn triumnhinir nvpv Mnfiill last "PVirlnv nnrl 7tr11.h,1o Thofn i *
Incidentally, the rifle victory over Pitt is the first win 
has scored this year over our hillside neighbors.Carnegie team I
The girls rifle team, not to be outdone by the varsity, took third place j 
In the womens national intercollegiate contest. The girls have been doing i 
better every year since rifle was ^instituted here as a sport, a few years ago. j
days now, Phi Kappa triumphing over McGill last Friday, and meeting Theta | 
Xi last night. Tomorrow night comes the curtain, with McGill Hall meeting Theta Xi.________________________________________________________
M.M. Juniors Win 
B.B. Championship
Class of 1929 Wins Its Third 
Consecutive Victory 
In Three Years
CARNEGIE THIRD 
INRIFLE MATCH
(Continued. From Page One.) 
but . neither one faltered under the I Okla., 2774.
Oklahoma A. & M. College, No. 2, 
Stillwater, Okla., 2875.
University of Missouri, Columbia, 
Mo., 2860.
Powana College, Claremont, Calif., 
2819.
Oklahoma A. & M., Stillwater,
The Margaret Morrison Juniors, by 
defeating the Fine Arts girls 43 to 21 
last Wednesday and the Margaret 
Morrison. Plebes 28 to 26 last Thurs
day, have captured the basketball 
championship for the third successive 
year, a record which no other girls' 
'basketball team has held at Carnegie.
The present junior team began its 
championship career as a plebe team 
by defeating the class of 
'27, then two-year . champions. 
As sophomores the girls found 
their greatest apposition in the 
Fine Arts team, and this year, as jun
iors, it was the Margaret Morrison 
class of '31 which seriously threaten
ed to end their winning record. The 
junior team has gone through these 
three y6ars with practically the same 
/ lineup, haying lost one player, . The 
substitutes have changed a little 
from year to year. Gertrude Zenk, 
who has rarely been outjumped at 
center position, and Irene LaLonde, 
side center, have made an unusually 
strong center combination. Gladys 
Conner and Dot Hill have been re
sponsible for some excellent shooting 
and high scores. The guard positions 
have been ably filled by Betty Mar
shall and Dot Roy who have succeeded 
in offering strong opposition to their 
opponent forwards.
strain of such nerve wrecking compe
tition. Lippert had the second high
est prone score of^all the men in this 
match. He was only one point behind 
DeJournett of West Virginia, who 
made a possible 100 besides having 
the highest total individual score in 
the match. None of the .Carnegie po
sitions or methods of firing were pro
tested whereas protests were made 
against three of the other teams by 
the. officials. This match official pro
tested against one of West Virginias 
practices in the match, and this will
University of Louisville, Louisville, 
Ky., 2753.
Washington University, St. Louis, 
Mo., 2644.
In the matches fired with the Uni
versity of West I Virginia, University 
of Maryland, and the University of 
Idaho, the girls team defeated the 
University of Idaho by a score of 490 
to 487, and lost to the University of 
West Virginia by one point. West 
Virginia turned in a score of 484 and 
University of Maryland fired 487, and 
the Carnegie Tech for both matches
have to be decided by the N. R. A., was 483. The record of the team to
but it is not likely that they will be 
disqualified.
It is to be noted that Carnegie easi
ly defeated Pitt in this match, and the 
rifle team deserves a great deal of 
credit for upholding the honor of the 
honor of the school, and preventing 
Pitt from winning every competition 
between the schools, since Pitt has de
feated Carnegie in every other sport 
this last season.
All the teams seemed quite satisfied 
with the present league which is the 
best that has been arranged for a 
long time, and agreed to endeavor to I 
keep the same arrangement, in the fu
ture. An effort will be made to have 
more shoulder to' shoulder matches 
during the regular season. Every one 
seemed quite satisfied with the Car
negie range which is the best in this 
Section of the United States, and it 
is probable that the intercollegiate 
shoulder to sliouldennatches sponsor
ed by the N. R. A. will again be .held 
here next year. At the present time
date is eleven victories and three de
feats. Two more matches remained 
to be fired, one with Penn State Col
lege and the other with the Univer
sity of Kansas.
Shingu ,hBrn dhs
Bloomington. Ind.  The Indiana 
Daily Student, searching among the 
university archives, has discovered 
that in 99 there was a rule at the 
University of Indiana saying that "No 
co-ed shall ride by means of horse 
and buggy beyond the city limits.
At Ease!
on the Campus
Well dressed from top to 
toeboth layers!
When youre starting to 
dress at eight-fifteen for 
an eight-thirty class, you 
may find it a little difficult 
to pay a great deal of at
tention to details. And 
yet, details may make or 
mar your appearance.
To achieve the smartest 
possible effect in the least 
possible time then, elimin
ate all possible details! 
Thats simple!
Just pay a visit to the sec
tion devoted to modern 
fashions  youll find all 
sorts of trick new things 
snug little garments of 
silk, 'rayon or cotton, 
many of which combine in 
one piece everything you 
need to wear under your 
classroom frocks.
Third Floor
Ensemble of almond-green Kashara, with match
ing dotted yosan 
blouse, and 
youthful yokeband skirt $39.50 
(From the Sports
wear shop, Sec
ond Floor).
The Felice Sylph 
$1.95
Made of checked rayon, 
without bones. The ban
deau is shaped, the shoul
der straps silk. Four hose 
supporters. In tea rose, 
orchid, or blue, with 
white. Sizes 32 to 38. 
( Third Floor.)
The game between the juniors and the prospects tor next years team
the Arts girls on Wednesday w 
unusually poor example of trained 
basketball playing, which was proba
bly due to the fact that the players 
had had almost no previous practice 
with all the members of their own 
team. In spite of the fumbling, fall
ing, and bunching which characterized 
the game, both teams put up a good 
struggle.
The M. M. .Tunior-Freshman game 
was an exceptionally good one from 
the standpoint of both players and 
spectators. - The plebes had already 
defeated the sophs 47 to 12, and. the 
juniors had won over the Arts team 
43 to 21 so that the teams appeared 
about evenly matched. The excellent 
playing of both teams was in marked 
contrast to the poor playing of the 
day before. Fast passing and good 
team work were evident from the 
starL With the plebes leading by 
three points at the end of the first 
half, and with a tie score of 20 at the 
end of the third quarter, excitement 
ran high. Although the juniors won 
by two points, gained during the last 
minute of play, the freshman team 
showed some very fine material.
The lineups:
Juniors. Arts.
Gladys Conner .. .F... Harriet Hanna
Dot Hill ................F............ J. Willson
G. Zenk .................C................ E. Offut
I. LaLonde ........SC.......... R. Meyers
Dpt Roy ................G.......... E.
Ionic .verv good, since only two men 
will graduate this year, and neither of 
these were in the shoulder to shoulder 
match, besides these . some of this 
years plebes will be available and 
probably several other good men will 
be eligible at that time.
The final scores of the match were:
West Virginia ................................1306
Penn State .......................................1280
Carnegie Tech.................................1268
Pennsylvania University ..............1261
Pitt ....................................................1212
Drexel................................................1235
The Carnegie lineup was:
P. K. S.
Fisher .... 
Bronson ...
Lippert___
Kasehagen . 
Weatherell
... 95 
.. .99 
...97 
...87
86 .78259 
91 ' 73 259 
86 73 258 
89 69 255 
73 77 237
1268
FOOTBALL MEN TO 
REPORT APRIL 10
B. Marshall ........G............. F. Hanna
SubstitutionsJuniors: Leah Milk
man for Irene LaLonde, Irene LaLon
de for Betty Marshall.
Field goalsJuniors: Gladys Con
ner 10. Dot Hill 9. Arts: Harriet
Hanna 6, Jeanette Willson 3.
FoulsJuniors: Gladys Conner 1,
Dot Hill 2. Arts: Jeanette Willson 3. 
Juniors. Freshmen.
G. Conner ............F............ S. Wright
D. Hill ..................F............. G. Foster
G. Zenk ................C............ K. Collins
K. Anderson ...S. C...... I. Schory
I. LaLonde .........G............... M. Vogel
The thud of bodies striking hard 
earth, the cries of men and coaches, 
and the sharp slap of leather against 
leather will soon be reminding Tech 
adherents that plans for a champion
ship 1928 football team are rapidly 
Willson j coming to a head. Spring training be
gins April tenth, the day classes re
sume after Easter vacation, and will 
continue for two and a half weeks. 
All those fifty or sixty men who are 
eligible must report at this time.
Training will be under the direct 
supervision of Bob Waddel with Al. 
Irwin assisting. Head Coach, Wally 
Steffen will come in on Saturday to 
smooth out the rough spots and talk 
Carnegie spirit, fight, and courage to 
the men.
Spring training serves several very 
useful purposes. A lineup of availa
ble material for next year is obtained. 
The men are tried out in the various
Find your Juture 
in a Kresse Job.
D. Roy ..................G.............. H. Mowl j
SubstitutionsJuniors: Irene Lai positions and are thus fitted to the j
Londe for Kay Anderson, Betty Mar-1 duties in which they show the great| 
shall for Irene LaLonde. Freshman: jest proficiency. The men are started | 
Eleanor Lemon for Gladys Foster, j on a period of physical training '
Gladys Foster for Eleanor Lemon, 1 which will continue through the sumi
Martha Clark for Maty Vogel. j mer months. Euthusiasm that'has j
Field goalsJuniors: Gladys Congrown stale or dormant during the ,
ner 8, Dot Hill 3. Freshmen: Salome 
Wright 6, Gladys Foster 4.
FoulsJuniors: Gladys Conner 6.
Freshman: Salome Wright 6.
winter will be rekindled and the squad, : 
as a whole, will be started on the way j 
to that state of perfection which is | 
so necesary for successful football. 1
' I O college graduatesmen who prefer the finer things in life, and 
X who have the ambition to become recognized leaders in their 
communitiesthe S. S. Kresge Company offers a future that 
abounds in opportunity. With 450 stores in operation and a 
volume of business running well toward $150,000,000 yearly, our 
program of expansion is now well under way. We are opening 
new stores throughout the nation as rapidly as we can train men 
to manage them.
For these future managers we want college graduates with trained 
minds and well rounded personalities. These men will be taught 
every phase of our business. They will start at the bottom and 
be trained in each departmentevery detail of store management 
will be given to them. At every step their progress will be en
couraged. They will be expected to work hard, and when this 
intensive training is completed, they will become store managers, 
and possibly higher executivesdignified positions paying from 
$3,000 to $15,000 a year and more.
If you are willing to work hard and show your mettle, you can 
find your future in a Kresge job. Write to our Personnel Depart
ment today and a graduate of your own college who has already 
found success with us will be sent to see you.
PERSONNEL DEPT. 6
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES ' * ' 25c. to $1.00 STORES 
 KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING
about 
J.L. PICKERING, Jr.
it to 
will be 
r as tin 
the re 
urtati oi
 Cftinpuf 
Uo worli 
* boei
"When 1 finished collefje It took 
me two years to pick the right 
Company. When this decision wai 
reached, I forgot my degree, my 
diploma, my major study, and 
started in at the bottom with tha 
S. S. Kresge Co., a business totally 
foreign to my training. If I wai 
right in concluding that the Com
pany was everything and the kind 
of business not so Important, I 
was headed the right way.
The re-adjustment period was 
pretty hard and It took a lot of 
sticking, but during this period I 
found out something else. It la 
not education that makes a busi
ness success, but how to apply 
what you know. For that reason 
a college man has the advantages 
over his less fortunate brother.
"My experience In thl* Company 
can be duplicated by any other 
college graduate. Every Kresge ex
ecutive started in at the bottom, 
and was advanced as fast as the 
different phases of the busU 
ness were learned. Results alone 
determine how successful ono 
will be. There Is always plenty 
of room nt the top for the most 
ambitious, and due to constunt 
expansion, this condition will hold 
true for n great many years to 
come, certainly during this 
generation."
J. L. PICKERINO, Jr.
Mr. Plckerln/i fj now an 
executive in ottr General Ofiicci at Detroit.
JO

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 27, 1928
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
Published one very week during the QIccQwQ , yeur by undergraduate! of Carnegie Inntituto 
of Technology. Entered in t'ho Pittaburgh | 
Pont Oillc an ficcond-clann matter.
j Book Ri view
BLACK MAJESTY ON
JOHN VANDERCOOK
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ...................Fenton FinnManaging Editor..,..........Milton Cohen
News Editor...............Margaret He-Qcc
Athletic Editor....................Fred Wood
WomenH Editor.......................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bullinger William RoseA. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Schnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralaton Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. 
E. Jarema 
T. Lippert '
W. W. Huy
C. Park
J. J. Boyle 
H. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe 
H. Levinson 
W. J. Eason 
H. Booth 
M, Echelw 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
Ina Hansell 
E. Schlesinger
B. KannJ. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. O'Donnell R. Bramson 
H. Whitehlll 
R. Barr A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson
C. F. Ackenheil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattisman
D. H. Barr
John Vandercook, so the jacket of |
Black Majesty asserts, became interI 
ested in the negro problem years ago 
when he was a young newspaper re
porter. At that time he witnessed a j 
lynching. Since then be has spent J 
his time visiting all the negro dis
tricts in the world. Tom-Tom, his 
first book, and now Black Majesty, his 
second, are the results of this inves
tigation.
I had hoped that T might look for j 
something more than mere reporting j 
in this account of Henry Christophe,
King of Haiti. The life, the career, | 
the notoriety of this personage (for j 
he was that) have interested me vast
ly. Never before had there been 
available a source giving oven the 
most bald of accounts of his spectacj 
ular life. What would Vandercook do j 
with this splendid literary opportuni, 
ty? Biography must result; that was 
certain. I didnt want a Actionized 
Christoph?!, but I did want a real one.
I wanted to know more intimately and 
more fully the whole story, the whole 
man. I wanted some acute under
standing of the psychology of the race
which made Henry Christophe possi______
ble, for Henry Christophe was black j 1ami for all the world a negro. I Who reads Thistledown? I, criedTT K. S. N. loudly. After me, he is theHere was disappointment. .Vanderbest dramatic critic writing in the 
coots ogiaphy is meager stuff. I t Tartanafter me. I, cried Blanche
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Pity the poor policeman. The Na\ if the ward-heeler took a liking to him.
: tional Crime Commission recently 
! turned in a report which lamba'stes the 
j copper unqualifiedly. These learnj ed gentlemen declare, in fact, that 
I to the plodding figure must be asj cribed the blame for allowing our 
1 celebrated criminal class to escape 
j scotch-free from the cliitches of the
That was not so bad then. Because 
the office in those far-off ante-bellum 
days was mainly to clear the streets 
of the prostrate drunks on Saturday 
nights, to sample the fruit of the 
hucksters, to help elderly people over 
the street corners, to inspect the fam
ily entrances and the like trivfa. More
i law. Were it not for the fact that j recently there has been added the du: ties of regulating the automobile trafj fic and the generous distribution of 
| tags to likely motorists. Therefore, 
! Binet-Simon tests were not used to 
; select these men.
A suggestion is herewith offered to| wards the improvement, embellishj ment and refinement of the force.' 
; First of all, a legal training should be
CARDO CHARDON DISENWOLLE
I the bluecoats notoriously wear 
j florid complexion, we might even now j
j discern a mounting color in their j
; cheeks due to mortification and in-!
 jured pride.
: It is boldly asserted, for example,
I that the average policeman has 
i mentality popularly dubbed, mo-! 
f ronio', and as a result he could not
i detect a crime being committed unj instituted along with a study of the
der his very nose unless they were | psychology of legislators and lawyers
i screams, smoke or a crowd attached i criminalsas it is so easy to pass 
to it: Only a small proportion of ^om nej>f these categories into anI criminals are caught after someone i ther. Then greater dignity might
; has written to the papers, notifying j '*,e conferred by a natty uniform, es| them of the commission of the crime, j Pecially the white stripe down the
___j or until the tabloid papers have been j trouser leg, because nothing has added' -
able to reprint pictured representa-1 mre to the efficiency of the force than 
j tions of the deed in flagrante delicj this* as can be shown in the experiFor instance, according to the j ence in New York. Another thing
  report of this commission of which which might be welcomed might be
4 i Frank Lowden of Illinois, was chairmore Picnics, balls and like which the
ro matter how much is being done for man, in St. Louis, of the burglaries ! Public are always eager to subscribe
them. Anyhow, if he doesnt like j known to the police, there were arrests ; forGrill food, why doesnt he eat at his i in only 8 er cent of the cases; of the i Above all, social policy dictates the
fraternity? The food must be pretty j embezzlement, 15 percent; of forger.immediate cutting down of the crimhad there, if he prefers mine. j ies, 8 per cent; of larceny, 6 per cent; j *na* classes and the wave of crime-soWho reads Thistledown? We do, ! of manslaughter and murder, 32 per I dismaying since the war. Might it not
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS . 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen 
Margaret McConnaughey 
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. WehrleT. R. Zone D. H. Genter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager..
Assistants
G. Brahmst 
J. Roth
G. C. Harbison 
G. Thompson 
B. Wedner A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
STAFF
Harold Kandell
A. Frank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone 
I. LeyinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
plicated him: a hundred years has 
done much to make even the most 
real aspects of his personality in
credible and vague. But here was a 
chance for a creative writer; facts 
were few, but the reulity of the whole 
situation was undeniable. Vander
cook does his worjc only fairly well. 
When he tells of the events, he ac
complishes the credibility of the 
newspaper yarn; when he attempts 
to go beneath the surface (and these 
attempts are unfortunately scarce), 
he fails considerably in bringing the 
color of truth and nature to his situ! Goeckler. Whatever he has to say is [ cent of the 979 men on the force had j despicable but irigenious brigand, 
powder among our alwa.ys a splendid relief after the conj the standing of an ordinary intelligent hijacker, etc., who had been apprecentration , which mathematics deI man. bended should be given the alternaThistledown* I cried i'm*ni8- Sure, said Mr. Pfouts, some-; There are harsh words indeed. And iye f entering into a sequestered conr hit to I Hmes lle hite " WMthe peculiar fact is that such opinion I t?plat,h .w,thln pns<m " r *>seil/s fe,lelwUh names lnie him seems hardly, to conform to the urevaallo"e<> to join the police force. Therelent notion of the guardians of the I by' many advantages would be secur
across our tables, and the deleterious 
dispensation of 
books.
Who reads 
Dean Tar
off campus opinion with unconscious j ""trouble and dirty
western' humor. Keep .t up. Tliist emessefl ,n ,his stale and nation }&K 
down, good work. We, cried the plebe | 80me GermaII protee, pup all right, 
class. He is about the only person i who reads Thistledown? I. said Dr. around here who more than half way ' Ea,te,. ,n some wayg he .s repl.esen. 
understands us, and who takes us se, t.,tjve of lhe moderll coliesidte mind.
peace. Any number of depositions,ed. First, the approval of the comriously. He knows that regulations 
;ye silly and he wants to end them at 
Christmas. If he wasnt a junior, wed
ation and his King. His failure may | mi,ku llim an Honorary member of the
OfficeRoom 12; Induntrien Building. Offlc IlouruMonday to Thurndayn, 12:80-l :20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:30-0:00.
To Inmire publication on the nuccecding 
Tueiwlay, newn items munt bo In the ntudcnt 
pout office or Tartan Office before 4 :30 Thuraday.After Office Hourn call Schcnioy 1400, 
Schenley 0810, Sehonloy 9211.All editorials which are Initialed 
are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uninitialed editorials are 
those by the editor.
o THIEVES I
Souvenir hunters and novelty col
lectors have been known to seek out 
many quoor objects with which to sat
iate their graving for making collec
tions. Stamps, cigar bands, match 
boxoM, coins and whatnot will bo 
found among the trorisuros of those 
addicted to this sort, of pastime. Most 
collections are perfectly legal and le
gitimate, but, on the Carneglo campus 
there eont.lnuos to exist a small but 
harmful -yes, -even criminalgroup 
whose activities brand Its members as 
belonging to that order despised by 
oven nmator highwaymen. Petty 
thieving is the mark of one of the 
lowest, divisions on the social scale, 
and those few persons who continue 
the practice of stealing signs and 
placards from the campus bulletin 
boards rightly desorve the just con
tempt of the student body.
Fraternity and dormitory rooms are 
lined with posters and advertisements 
of all kindsmany of them acquired 
after their period of original useful
ness had expired. Others, however, 
have been deliberatelj1 stolen before 
such time was reached. Most such 
signs represent a considerable finan
cial outlay by the organizations and 
committees posting them, in return 
for which they justly expect a pro
portionate amount of service. The 
theft of the signs invariably results 
in loss. May it be stopped!
For those legitimate collectors who 
delight in acquiring painted posters, 
in the majority of cases the organiza
tions responsible for them will be only 
too glad to give them to any one de
siring the signs after they have served 
their purpose. But dont be a thief.
S. C. R.
be due to the sklmplness of the narra
tive, the scantiness of material; yet 
I know of many vital character studies 
in five thousand words. Vandercook 
shows repeatedly that he\ feels his 
limitations, feels that what material 
he has is not sufficient with which 
to build a true character study; yet
glorious class of 31, hurrah, hurrah. 
Well bet some plebe delegation is 
mighty glad to have him around their 
house.
Who reads Thistledown? I said 
Fenton Finn, because Im trying to 
find out who he is. Ill give him an ac
tivities key if lie'll declare himself. I,
drawn up in rebuttal and refutation of 
this blackeye handed out so unceremoniously. The children, .on the. street, make out whether he is In sympathy j the eIderly women accllstomed
I I, said Mr. Davis, but I wish I could
he is unable, because of his limlth' said the owner of Skibo. Hes made 
tions as a person and as an artist, to , some dirty references to me. but they
with our organization. I, said Mr. cr05s stl.eet8i t]le puahcart 
Lawler. Hes a good point in case to {]lc maids in the premier residential produce as evidence of what can come j districts lhe stranKers in th0 , e 
out of English I I said the Grand Uies. the 5ustodians ot ark bencheg 
Slam of Alpha Alpha fraternity. f -all can attest to the contrary. If a 
he has been, fooling us, and he doesn t meeting were arranged for a given belong to a fraternity, he s going to hour and a ,arEe hal]
affidavits, protocols, bills or anything munity wou,d U,cn be s0 f0?4! as toin an imposing legal form could he ! !ake bim Probal% turn over a new1 leaf, being accepted back into the
fold publicly. In addition, we shall 
have secured an expert, qualified po
lice staff whose acquaintanceshipwith the Avays of the underworld will 
be first-hand. The testimony of any 
number of psychologists is at hand to 
the effect that the most efficient, al
truistic service to tbe community 
comes from those who have been resrr. ....... ... 6our and a IarEe hal, undoubt dl | fom a career of anti-sodal acbelong to this one as soon as I can there would be nary a vacant seat for a ! y nd installe'i lnt0 a position ofdiscover who he is and put a pledge , protest meeting a ,nBt th,s flc ........
Pin in his button hole. What Ujia I report. Somehow. In .he person of the fraternity needs , men out for act.v| swnrthy, sliBhtl blllky !!gure ot ^
ities. He surely could keep us wellpopular conception, the outwarddo anything about the matter. I fool  havent nearly so much grit In them represented on the literary side ot the
singularly unsatisfied, us If here were j B what he'll get it he comes over 
a groat opportunity gone untouched. | here. I, aid Dean Green. ""He soera*
Vandercook, conscious of Tact to the j t0 have noticed all the little feminine 
oxtent of adhering to It with the eye traits, the femme foibles, of the camof lhe dusty historian, forgets lliat the  1JUHcourse he is a little harsh 
fooling of truth is Infinitely Import-1 011 them, but then, men will he men. 
ant.
Not that  tllw. w,____ I ......y,---------- * ................. . .. ...v;. u - _____I 
real power, that there are not mo| going to say about me. I, said Jakey, j ing a golden' bagpipe. His goodI pettifoggery oi the legal profession, it
menta of glamor,-that there does not j but I can always guess what he Is gomatured, jolly face shone With glee as j *s necessary to institute some method
remain one oi! the most; amazingly viing to .suggest, about me. I, said \v_hoj he looked with Thistledown upon the j training. In the past, any burly 
tal and fascinating characters in Illsi ever runs the Grill. Of course his ac| contradictions, idiocies, strivings, proj ^tfooted, healthy-looking individual
tory bore In pr^nt. Wo can be gratecusaons are unfounded. Our food Is vincialism, ambitions and bluff which j mi^t rate for the position especially
ful to him for those throe accomplish-1 cheap, and hot, and well served, and : cluster about this school which is at
monis, if they are that. Christophe I quite satisfactory,' hut thtjre nre al| once his child and his perpetual monwill through Vandercook become bet-J ways some will complain, of course, | ument. 
tor known to many people; that fact 
In Itself Is exoneration for the au
thors weaknesses as an artist.
The volume la handsomely done.
The Literary Guild chooses It. for dis
tribution.
T , ... . . . pression of the community feeling recampus. I don t read his column, but i,,.. r-. ,, , ,,. . , , . . .I sides. For no other reason 'have theyif his legs are as long as his line we 11 i  r . .. , ,,, . . , , . . . . , received the, name, the city s finest. have to send him out for spring track. TJNow thats a real he man activity. j oWever, if the rating of these men 
wiio reads Thistledown? Out from ; ls,t0,be raised to cope with the clever
the Elysium fields came the answer, i r*nals, the amazing avalanche of
. Who reads Thistledown? f, said : for there was the ghost of Andy himj egislation poured out every year ahd
are not moments of [ Tillio; because I never know wliat lies | self, sitting beneath a plane tree playi110ingenious best minds in the
I of training.
trust.
The officer on the beat was a figure 
until now neglected until the hour of 
desperate need and we have always 
fallen back onhim inreliance upon 
his efficiency, ever confident that he 
was there somewhere on the line alKo 
duty. This recent report will shock 
many worthy citizens. Perhaps it will 
have a beneficial effect in arousing 
tlie^ public to the desirability of re
warding ability and selecting for this 
position of trust men tried and tested 
by experience. In this way crime will 
be decreased and so will the reports 
of expert committees of investigation 
as well.
N. M.
Traveler Tells Of
Chinese Family Life
I otliers It. offers a medium of fellow' ship that has resulted In the roundI lug off of many of the rough corners
1 which environmental conditions may 
have brought into the llie of a boy 
before entering college. Contrary to : spending three years ill Pekin during 
the apparent opinion of certain of the j the height of Chinas revolution, serv! faculty, fraternities, in the main, enj jng yle iast year as assistant bureau
I Minneapolis, Minn. (JntorcolleglI ate Press and Minnesota Dally)To 
! have traveled one-and-a-half times 
i around the world, going through Eng
land, France, Austria, and Russia,
courage study, in fact quite often com
pel it. Hence for the average student, 
or the dull student, living in a fra
ternity will invariably increase his efficiency. As for the more brilliant
manager of the United States, is the 
experience of Thomas Euniss, assist
ant in the department of history at 
the University of Minnesota.
northern Chinese business men, who 
would have been beheaded had the 
wits of northern detectives been a |
Dora Russell Indignant
Over Reception Given
Madison,
taste, one who holds that sex knowl
edge and discussion cannot decently 
and normally be brought into the 
open, even before a mixed audience,, 
or one who behaves with dignity in ;
little sharper. I' made my office my j comprehend^ why she should be conresidence, and whenever detectives sidered more, dangerous to American 
asked me if this was an American-1you^1 than her husband who holds 
Chinese news agency, I replied that it ! (*lc same views as she, Mrs. Bertrand 
was my office and residence. ' Russell, who was refused permission
My phone was tapped, my door |to 8peak on ^ uity of Wisconwas watched by detectives, and every-1 f0.1! camPu as ^' ee > wiote an open r -i i v * * letter on the subject to Presidentthing I said was overheard, but my L.  . J u rieBweni. . . 5 I Glenn Frank,extraterritoriality rights as an Ameii. -
can citizen protected me from prosej **er ePistle, which appeared On the 
cution by the northern officials, he i ^ront Page of the Wisconsin Daily 
continued. j Cardinal, read as follows:
, . Dear Glenn Frank:Euniss was warned and requested to ] ,
resign his position several times by | , Some years ago I remember readthe American-Pekin legation, but he with ^pleasure an article of youi*3
j continued because he believed he was I *n ^hich it was suggested that'biology
Wis.(IP)  Unable to difficult situation which is not of her
TI . .........., o_____________ v...  i wiitmucu uotctuoc ue ucucrcu ue ----------- --------------------| student it is doubtful if this would ap. He returned last Septembei from a . , accord with the sentiments and the sciences that deal with life
ply. There are a few practices, how! three year's stay in China where he ; p" pie sentlm6nts [ were the foundatioA of the thought
of progressive people of today.
ply. There are a few pr___________
ever, which characterize fraternities, , served two years as an instructor In
1 and which are certainly .'not to the j history at the University of Pekin,
: best advantage of the members or ] a"d was manager ot the Americanrather to their ProsPective members, j Chinese agency in the same city durThe reference is to the Practice of ! inK tile remainder of his stay. 
overemPliasis on activities, fraternal ! Mr. Euniss describes himself as be
er campus, and to certain would-be I fortunate in having lived a year 
disciplinary measures with regards to ; with a Chinese family and thus gainFRATERN ITIES
pledges.
The jractice of making a pledge a 
valet for certain bullying active 
members is not uncommon and is a 
condition which any well organized 
fraternity can be heartily ashamed of,
ing the Chinese point of view* on 
their national troubles. This stay in 
a Chinese home was instrumental in 
his deciding to accept the manager
ship of the news agency in Pekin 
which served as a propaganda agency
Fraternities have come to 'be a fa
vorite subject with college editors of 
late. The general trend of their dis
cussion has been toward condemna
tion. Many of them have adopted a 
Menchonisli attitudo and have attempt
ed to tear the presont system to 
pieces. A few have taken the oppo
site side and have proceedod to laud 
Greek Letter Societies to the skies. 
Mayhap both are wrong and a middle 
attitude would offer a better evonue 
of criticism. It is certain that fra
ternities do often carry the "Brotherly 
Love Idea to extremes and that many 
oi their methods are unreasonable 
and not infrequently silly, it is this 
type of fraternalism that has brought 
about adverse criticism from a few 
narrow minded individualspersons 
who have failed to recognize the other 
qualities which fraternities do pos
sess.
Most fraternities, speaking of course 
with reference to the Carnegie cam
pus, afford an opportunity for a bet
ter social life to many men. To
however it exists in almost every fra-; for the Southern Nationalist faction 
I ternity and seems to be difficult to \ in the territory of the hostile NortliI remedy. If pledges would aissert their I ern faction.
! right as fellow men, In this respect, ' I had some ot the most delightfully 
I perhaps fraternity men would find it j thrilling experiences of my life manag! a less pleasurable occupation. j ing this news agency, says Euniss,
Another antiquated practice which i "for I was campaigning the China for 
still exists at Carnegie is the high Chinese policy in opposition to both 
I schoolisli idea of a Hell Week. the conservative nortlieron party and 
j Many, in fact most of Carnegies fra-1 the American legation in Pekin. The 
| t.ornjtips demand a week of a Fresh] agency was subsidized by patriotic
J man's all tog crowded time for this ~ 1  ....................."
| purpose. Some members insist that should tolerate such a period as Hell 
I this is a great period in a Freshman's Week for Carnegie is beyond comprej life, that he will look back at it, In henslon. Tt is often a week of mental 
after years, with fond memories. For and bodily torture which renders a 
this type of fraternity man, and there" Freshman incapable of concentration 
are many of them at. Carnegieone and frequently causes a break in some 
; has little respect, in fact is perfectly of his studies that results in the eventA month after Euniss left Pekin, his , . 
former office was raided by a northj . . students of your univerern party and re-established under | invited, me to speak, therefore, it 
the subsidy of the Japanese govern
ment, to serve again as a propaganda 
agency, but for the opposite faction.
was with pleasure that I accepted
their invitation, assuming that in the
educational atmosphere you had creiinM ^  ated the problems of life might be dis-Tlie German commercial policv in ,, .... ! cussed and that there would be noChina is little known in his country, ; assumpUon that some knowledge is
but. it is used as the principle arguc,ean a]]d some unfe) a
ment for our China for Chinese  | ^ge being the right of the young menpolicy, because the Germans have 
demonstrated that business can be 
successfully carried on in China with
out the customary extraterritoriality 
rights of foreign nations, EunisS de
clares.
The Germans renounced their exand women who build the future of 
their country.
Your faculty received Bertrand 
Russell with honor, but a woman of 
university standing, for seven years 
the wife of this distinguished man 
and mother of . his children, they
traterritoriality rights in 1918 as a" chose to treat as an intellectual and 
diplomatic move tovhave China favor moral outcast. Yet no husband and 
them in the war. German merchants J wife were ever more one person on
justified in classifying as an "IgnorI anions, a person who has failed to 
j broaden by higher education. Not in
frequently they are of the egotistical, 
I non-thinking type who fully qualify 
I as parallels to Shapespeares (famous 
character Bottom, the perfect ass of 
I all literature.
j Why the Interfraternity Council
mil crash of failure. This intense dis
ciplinary period could be limited to 
two or three days and so regulated 
that It. would become a time for a 
Freshman to show his resourcefulness 
under difficult situations, rather than 
a time for him to display his ability 
to take uncalled for bodily and mental 
punishment.
now overrun southern China and are 
besting Americans, British and French 
merchants in their Chinese trade rela
tions, according to Euniss.
When conditions so change that it 
may seem probably that the Nationaltheir views on the general problems 
of life and human relationships. Why 
am I worse than he?
You did not do me the courtesy 
of communicating your difficulties 
either to myself or my agent. The atcreating.
"The scandalmongers were await
ing to magnify any remarks which I* 
might make and I did not wish to 
bring any further distress upon the 
heads of those who _were courageousenough to espouse the cause of free 
speech and clean, serious, sex dis
cussion.
Because I am barred from your 
university precincts, I repeat, my per
sonal message to your young students 
remains unspoken. They will seek 
it in writing and thewritings of 
others sincerely desirous of refash
ioning the false standards by whidh 
at present their lives are governed. 
The preachers of those old standards, 
who are permitted to approach your 
young truth seekers, are themselves 
false in practice to what in principle 
they uphold.
And you must know that bootleg 
sex, like bootleg whiskey, carries the. 
poison of the prohibition at its heart. 
S'ecreey, shame, anxiety, course jests 
and sniggers, the hectic atmosphere 
of the petting party, to those you con
demn your young people when you 
refuse them frankness. In such an 
i atmosphere you hope to protect the 
sanctity of family life.
The students of Wisconsin have 
learned by their experience at least 
one thing, that the road is long before 
we can establish that the body is not 
vile and sex as clean a thing as the 
wind and the sun on the hills that 
surround your,, city. The sincerity of 
youth accuses your faculty, Mr. 
Frank. What has become of the so
ciety built upon a frank recognition 
of biological needs and facts?
DORA RUSSELL.
ists will finally gain a permanent coni titude of your faculty drew upon me
trol of Pekin, I intend to go back insulting comment and produced a
again, Eunis said. j ferment in Madison dangerous to the
------------------------------! peace of mincl of its citizens and for
eign to that mood of scientific in
quiry in which a university should
seek for truth.
Milwaukee, Wis.Dr. George E. 
Vander Beke,^ of the department of 
education at Marquette University, is 
compiling a new French word catalog, 
which will be the largest ever pub
lished. The largest one to date con
tains 400,000 words; the new one will 
contain 1,250,000 words. In the com
pilation of the book, ninetj-six differ
ent texts are used.
Easton, Pa. (IP):Under the aus
pices of the Carnegie Foundation for 
the Advancement of Teaching, Seniors 
in practically all Pennsylvania col
leges will be given comprehensive ex
aminations covering all fields of
In this ferment, and because you | knowledge towards the end of the
barred me from your university, I did 
you the courtesy to leave my serious 
personal message to your young stu
dents unspoken.
I perceive that you accuse me of 
bad taste; I leave your students to 
judge which person displays the finer
year in place of their regular final ex
aminations.
The Seniors who have not a grade 
of C or better in their courses will 
be required to take a final. Otherwise 
the taking of the final will be optional 
with the near-graduate.
