1
FEATURES................Page 10
1988-1989 Housing Guide and Glickstein discussn breakfast cereal
SPORTS.....................Page 20
Men's basketball on win streak and 
Schooley qualifies for championships
Cable TV could 
be in dorms by 
August
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
The Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC), Inter-Fraternity Council (1FC), 
and Pan-Hellenic Council are currently 
considering the possibility of a cable TV 
contract with the Pittsburgh Telecom
munications Company. Director of 
Housing Anthony Martin says that if all 
goes well, cable TV should be available 
by August 1988.
Cable will be available to the televi
sions in the public areas of fraternities, 
sororities, and dorm lounges. There are 
currently no plans to provide service to 
individual dorm rooms, probably be
cause it is harder to detect splicing when 
the cable is run into individual rooms.
To simplify matters, the cost will be 
billed to the housing office, which will 
in turn bill the fraternities, sororities, 
and SDC. The cost for the first year will 
be approximately $4500, which in
cludes a one-time installation tee of 
$2400 and a $2100 yearly service 
charge. The SDC is willing and able to 
pick up its share of the cost, but if the 
sororities or fraternities opt not to get 
cable, the SDC will have to pay a larger 
percentage of the cost. Peter Tilem of 
SDC Housing Committee feels there is 
encouraging SDC interest in cable TV 
and Martin reports a positive response 
from the fraternities and sororities.
One level of service will be available, 
continued on page 4
The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 18 Carnegie Mellon University February 23,1988
 Korean steelmaker
donates $1 million 
for chair in MEMS
Lion Dance
The Carnegie Mellon Chi
nese Student Organization 
held its third annual Lion 
Dance on Friday, February 
19 in front of Doherty Hall. 
The traditional dance is also 
performed in New Yorks 
Chinatown.
February 17 marked the 
beginning of the Chinese 
New Year, the year of the 
Dragon. The celebration 
lasts for 15 days.
If enough people care, virtu
ally anything is possible. 
Peter Ueberroth
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter 
^ President Richard Cyert recently announced 
that the Korean steel manufacturing company, 
Pohang Iron and Steel Company (POSCO), is 
giving one million dollars to the university to 
create the POSCO chair in the department of 
Metallurgical Engineering and Material Sci
ence (MEMS).
The president of POSCO, Chairman Park Tai 
Joon, is very interested in education. In 1986 
^ POSCO established the Pohang Institute of 
Science and Technology in Pohang, Korea, 
the city in which the company is located. The 
university is now in its first year of operation 
with a freshman class of 249. The schools 
graduate program is scheduled to open in 
March.
When the university was dedicated last 
March, Carnegie Mellon and four other uni
versities in the United States and Europe 
signed an agreement of friendship and col
laboration with Pohang and became sister 
schools. The other universities are the Univer
sity of Aachen in Germany, the Compiegne 
Institute of Technology in France, Imperial 
College in England, and the University of 
California-Berkeley.
Provost Angel Jordan represented Carnegie 
continued on page 59
Ueberroth speaks at
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant New s Editor 
Peter Ueberroth, Baseball Commissioner 
and former President of the Los Angeles 
Olympic Organizing Committee, gave a lec
ture in Skibos ballroom Feb. 15 entitled If 
^Enough People Care. The lecture dealt with 
fee elimination of illegal drug use and other 
issues facing America.
Ueberroth said he came to speak at Carnegie 
Mellon because he sees our university as being 
for leadership development. The United 
States needs to have more of its future leaders 
realizing that they have the potential to stop 
drug abuse.
Fairless lecture
If enough people care, said Ueberroth, 
virtually anything is possible. As examples 
of the truth of this statement he cited the 
v incredible fund-raising success of the 1984 
Olympics (which resulted in a surplus of $250 
million) and the way in which he influenced 
Major League Baseball. Baseball is very 
healthy today, he said. In 84 it was an 
institution that had decayed a great deal. Its 
turned around now.
According to Ueberroth, success is to pass 
on a better life to our young people." He 
stressed the need to realize this definition of 
success, and then explained how he thought 
people need to achieve such success. The first 
thing a person must do to achieve success, he 
said, is to take on a second project, [namely] 
giving back. He recommended taking any of 
a number of problems, ranging from things 
like homelessness to hunger to prejudice.
But a problem Ueberroth considers to be of
photo by Stan Fran/os
Baseball Commissioner Peter V. Ueberroth chats with President Richard M. Cyert and 
GSIA Dean Elizabeth E. Bailey after his speech If Enough People Care.
the utmost importance is illegal drug use. 
Accordingly, he cited evidence that 79 percent 
of proven criminals have been shown to have 
been under the influence of some illegal sub
stance while committing their crimes. He then 
went on to explain how the average potency of 
many illegal drugs has vastly increased, ena
bling a person to become dependent on a drug 
such as crack in ten days. A pusher might 
even give it to you free at first," he stated, 
thereby getting you hooked on it and willing 
to pay anything the next time.
Ueberroth believes there are two ways illegal 
drug use can be seriously curtailed: by stop
ping the supply and by stopping the demand.
He proposed stopping the supply by putting 
economic pressure on our allies in Bolivia and 
Peru (where 98 percent of coca plants produce 
cocaine for United States consumption). To 
stop demand he proposed that schools need to 
take an initiative towards educating the public 
and that every individual needs to commit 
more volunteer time.
The media said that the Los Angeles Olym
pics would be a bankrupt disaster." Ueberroth 
declared near the end of his speech. People 
said it would fail. But it worked. Volunteers 
are what made it work.
After the lecture, a few people were allowed
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 23,1988
FEATU
RS.Ptraisi/\WV/iur>~">yy
Marine kidnapped in 
southern Lebanon
TYRE, Lebanon (AP)  A caller Thursday 
claimed the Islamic Revolutionary Brigades 
kidnapped a U.S. Marine officer and accused 
the officer of being a CIA agent.
The Arabic-speaking man, in a telephone 
call to a Western news agency, said the previ
ously unknown group took Marine Lt. Col. 
William R. Higgins out of Beirut after he was 
brought out from the south.
U.N. officials and Shiite Moslem militiamen 
meanwhile staged a massive search for Hig
gins throughout south Lebanon and virtually 
sealed off the area around Tyre, 50 miles south 
of Beirut.
Gunmen on Wednesday blocked the coastal 
highway near Tyre and grabbed Higgins as he 
returned from a meeting with officials of Jus
tice Minister Nabih Berris Shiite Amal mili
tia. Abdel Majid Saleh, an Amal political 
leader, said he and Higgins had discussed 
efforts to free foreign hostages in Lebanon, in 
addition to other topics at the Tyre meeting.
Higgins was serving as chief of an observer 
group attached to the U.N. peacekeeping force 
in Lebanon.
William Higgins has joined the hostages. 
He will only come out after he is tried on 
grounds that he is one of the directors of the 
CIA in south Lebanon, the caller said. Hig
gins is now out of Beirut after he was brought 
out from the south.
There was no way to authenticate the claim 
immediately.
Yeltsin ousted from 
Soviet Politburo
MOSCOW (AP)  Boris N. Yeltsin, the 
outspoken former protege of Soviet leader 
Mikhail S. Gorbachev, was ousted from the 
ruling Politburo Friday, Tass reported.
Two rising stars in the Communist Party 
hierarchy were named non-voting Politburo 
members, the official Soviet news agency 
said.
The policy-making Central Committee 
made the changes after Gorbachev told the 
party leadership that his efforts to modernize 
the economy and Soviet society didnt consti
tute a retreat from socialism.
Tass said the Central Commiittee meeting 
freed Comrade B.N. Yeltsin from his duties 
as a candidate member of the Politburo. 
Yeltsin, 57, was brought into the ruling body 
by Gorbachev in February 1986 and named
Moscow party boss. But he fell from favor last 
fall when he complained to the Central Com
mittee at its last meeting that an entrenched 
bureaucracy had stalled Gorbachevs efforts 
to modernize Soviet society.
Tass said Georgy Razumovsky, 52, a Gor
bachev protege who has been handling party 
personnel matters for almost two years, would 
take a seat as a non-voting member of the 
Politburo. He has been a secretary of the 
Central Committee, a key post in the Commu
nist Party apparatus.
Also named to candidate, or non-voting, 
membership was Yuri Maslyukov, 50, who 
this month was named chairman of the State 
Planning Committee, the body that histori
cally has controlled the nations planned econ
omy.
Gorbachev defends his 
modernization efforts
MOSCOW (AP)  Soviet leader Mikhail
S. Gorbachev said his efforts to modernize the 
Soviet economic and social system dont 
constitute a retreat from socialism but instead 
represent an attack on dogmatism and bu
reaucracy.
We are not retreating one step from social
ism, Marxism-Leninism, everything which 
has been won and created by the people, 
Gorbachev told a gathering of the Communist 
Party leadership in Moscow.
We are striving in the present conditions to 
revive the Leninist look of the new system, to 
rid it of the accumulations and deformations, 
of everything that shackled society and pre
vented it from realizing the potential of social
ism in full measure, Gorbachev said.
The Kremlin leaders speech came on the 
second day of a plenary meeting of the Com
munist Party Central Committee, the Soviet 
Unions top policy-making body.
Gorbachevs comments to the closed session 
were reported by Tass, the official news 
agency.
Fire forces evacuation 
of embassy in Moscow
MOSCOW (AP)  A fire broke out Wed
nesday in a residential section of the U.S. Em
bassy in Moscow, forcing evacuation of the 
building but causing no injuries.
Philip Brown, a senior embassy spokesman, 
said the cause of the fire hadn't been deter
mined.
Soviet firefighters were summoned to the 
scene in midaftemoon. Flames leaped from 
windows on the fifth floor of the aging build
ing. U.S. Marine guards escorted the firefight
ers into the embassy compound.
American diplomats and embassy workers 
were ordered out of the building and stood on 
the sidewalk in a snowstorm watching the
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh........................................................................ . 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection  .................  854-0700
An alcohol drug crisis hotline. 5 - 9 pm
Tel-AW  ......................  281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower
smoking building.
Smoke continued to pour from windows an 
hour after the embassy was evacuated.
The blaze occurred in an area of the building 
used to house Navy Seabees and workers 
brought to Moscow on temporary assignment. 
Much of the building, which is in poor repair, 
is under renovation while officials in Wash
ington ponder what to do with their new 
embassy building, standing unfinished and 
vacant less than a block away.
Officials found the new building was riddled 
with high-technology eavesdropping devices 
apparently installed by Soviet workers while it 
was under construction.
Polaroid sues Kodak 
for $5.7 billion
ROCHESTER, N.Y. (DJ)  Eastman 
Kodak Co. said Polaroid Corp.'s submission 
of damages totaling as much as $5.7 billion in 
the instant-photography patent infringement 
suit between the two companies is ludicrous 
and ridiculously inflated.
Kodak said Polaroid asserted it lost $3.2 
billion in profits from lost sales and $1.1 
billion to $2.5 billion in additional lost profits 
because of its alleged inability to pursue the 
pricing, production and product introduction 
strategies it would have otherwise chosen. 
Memos pertaining to the damages that have 
been filed by both companies over the past six 
months and previously held confidential were 
placed in the public record Friday. The next 
status conference in U.S. District Court in 
Massachusetts is scheduled for Friday, March
18.
Reagan proposes $1.1 
trillion 1989 budget
WASHINGTON (DJ)  President Reagan 
sent Congress a $ 1.1 trillion budget projecting 
a deficit of $129.5 billion for fiscal 1989.
The large and stubbornly persistent budget 
deficit has been a major source of frustration, 
the President said in his budget message. It 
threatens our prosperity and our hopes for less
ening the burden on future generations.
The Congressional Budget Office, assum
ing a continuation of current budget policies 
and a weaker economy than anticipated by the 
administration, is projecting a deficit of $176 
billion in fiscal 1989.
The new Reagan budget projects a deficit of 
$146.7 billion in the current 1988 fiscal year, 
compared to a final fiscal 1987 deficit figure of
$150.4 billion.
The budget also proposes further reductions 
in the Medicare program to achieve savings 
agreed to by the budget (summit) negotiators 
but not fully enacted last year. The proposed 
Medicare savings, amounting to about $1.2 
billion, are expected to be highly controversial 
on Capitol Hill.
Pentagon scales down 
defense program
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The Pentagon pro
posed a $299.5 billion defense budget for the 
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1  $33 billion less 
than it had planned just a year ago.
The scaled-down defense program for fiscal 
1989 calls for fewer tanks, helicopters and 
aircraft, as well as fewer soldiers and sailors to 
operate and maintain them. However, several 
strategically important activities, such as mili
tary space launches and submarine warfare, 
would be kept on track.
The proposed budget, which could face sig
nificant modifications in Congress, would 
cancel a handful of large weapons projects. 
The Army would drop the Martin Marietta Co. 
Copperhead missile, and the Air Force isnt 
seeking funds for an anti-satellite weapon, 
known as ASAT. The Navy is dropping plans 
to buy a new version of the Grumman Corp. A6 attack plane.
Alcosan agrees to 
6-month ban on travel
PITTSBURGH  The Allegheny County 
Sanitary Authority agreed to a moratorium foi 
six months barring its members from traveling 
out of state on Alcosan money.
In the meantime George Herrman, a former 
executive of Alcoa, will formulate a new 
travel policy for the board members.
City officals have been critical of the boards 
travel costs. The county controller docu
mented $142,000 in travel costs during a sixyear period.
This moratorium is the result of criticism that 
renewed when it was revealed that three board 
members attended a sewage conference in San 
Diego recently. One of the three board mem
bers has resigned as a result of the scandal.
RS.P aAgSeP 100S1A OE2ACSPb 
Ee lE. VEcSPo ucOd
 
m
5168 PENN AVE.
Pkone 363*(
16 INCH 
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.>tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 3
FEATU RS. P.ag Te1g 0Tg gAT OT2C gA1U0di
Fairy Tales chosen as theme for Carnival
By JANET SUCHOCKAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Fairy Tales is the theme for this years 
Spring Carnival, which opens at 4:30 pm on 
Thursday, April 14. This Carnival promises to 
se larger than previous years since all of 
Skibo parking lot will be used for booths and 
more rides.
There will plenty of entertainment through
out the three days of Carnival, including the 
local rock bands Hector and Paris and The 
Image and the campus jazz band The Heavy 
Cats, comedians, both an AB and a SDC 
dance, and the traditional fireworks. The fire
works are slated for Friday night around 10 pm 
instead of Thursday night as in previous years 
for security reasons.
Since the fireworks are a signal to the public 
that the event is happening, the Spring Carni
val Committee hopes that by delaying them it 
will delay the arrival of the crowds.
Although the slogan is When you just cant 
get the real thing, the secondary slogan this 
feyear is security. Because of the trouble with 
gangs from Oakland last year, the Carnival 
Committee is taking measures to increase 
security.
There will be the orange-jacketed security 
monitors again, although a decision on the 
Committees request for additional money to 
hire more monitors was postponed for two 
weeks by the Student Senate. (See Senate 
fcstory on this page).
The Alpha Phi Omega concession stand will 
be moved from directly on the midway to back 
near the stadium in order to control the lines of 
people. A fence along the Forbes Avenue side 
of the parking lot is proposed to prevent people 
from entering the midway from behind the 
booths.
Tentatively, Carnival will be open on Thurs
day from 4:30 to midnight, Friday from noon 
to 11:30 pm, and Saturday from noon to 9:30
pm. Closing ceremonies will be at 10 pm.
Since all of Skibo lot will be used for Carni
val, alternate parking sites, such as the syna
gogue at Fifth and Morewood, are being con
sidered. Also in the planning stage is a possible 
CMU night on Thursday where students 
would pay just one price for unlimited rides.
Students are also encouraged to buy the pre
sale tickets for rides to save about 25 cents per 
ticket.
ncgrS 01PC bS1APo CmS ScCgAS srgyE TEC .gTT yS 2PSU eEA t1Acg81Td ,CmSA Om1cISP gcOT2US CmS 
ME8gcI Ee CmS OEcOSPPgEc PC1cU eAEM CmS OScCSA Ee MgU.1b CE cS1A CmS PC1Ug2Md
Physical Plant 
bldg. $1.25 million 
over projected cost
By KAREN WOODILA
Tartan Staffwriter
Construction on the new Physical 
Plant building, adjacent to the Hamburg 
Hall complex, is expected to be com
pleted in late 1988.
According to Fred Rogers, Vice Presi
dent for Business Affairs, the original 
budget was set at about $7.75 million 
but is now up to about $9 million, due to 
holdups from installing electrical sys
tems and extensive cleanup from an 
autumn mudslide.
Explained Rogers, The building was 
designed too fast. Consequently, system 
requirements weren't completely avail
able when plans were made. CRS/Sirrine, consultants for the project, pre
dicted construction would top the 
Universitys original budget.
The new building, which will house 
Physical Plant facilities, will also be the 
site of a chilled electrical vault system 
powerful enough to supply power to 
Wean, Hamerschlag, and Porter Halls.
As an element of Carnegie Mellons 
Master Plan, the facility will feature a 
rooftop walkway connecting Wean Hall 
and Hamburg Hall. A plaza will be con
structed next to the new building.
Discussion group formed
By SHIZUKA OTAKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Ed Lilley, Assistant Dean of Student 
Affairs, is running a discussion group on 
friendship along with Sandra Kryder of 
Counseling and Student Development. It 
will meet once a week, on Mondays from 
11:30 am to 12:30 pm throughout the 
semester in the Mudge Lounge.
It is not intended as a therapy group, but as 
an informal place for people to openly com
municate and explore their views on friend
ship.
He needs 15 people to conduct this group.
The group is for people who have good 
friends and for those who are having a hard 
time developing friendships. Besides dis
cussing their thoughts on friendship, the
group will also try more creative explora
tions using role-playing games, theater ex
ercises, and artistic expression.
The idea was originally conceived out of 
Dean Lilleys concern for college students. 
He feels that many students have a hard time 
adjusting to college because they are forced 
to carve out a totally new existence for them
selves. He felt that a focus group could help 
and he wanted to stress the importance of 
open communication in friendships.
Because there has been some faculty inter
est in this group. Dean Lilley plans to con
duct separate groups for faculty and stu
dents.
Anyone interested in joining this group 
should contact Dean Lilley at x2075 by Feb
ruary 24. The group will start on March 7.
Senate postpones decision on 
funding for Carnival security
Babbitt, du Pont withdraw from campaign
ab CmS vPPEOg1CSU 3ASPP
Former Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont and 
former Arizona Gov. Bruce Babbitt, on the 
heels of disappointing finishes in Iowa and 
New Hampshire, aban
doned their bids for the 
presidency last week.
Du Pont becomes the 
second Republican to 
quit the race, following the withdrawal of for
mer Secretary of State Alexander Haig on 
February 12.
Du Pont had hoped to make himself the con"88 Se ws
servative alternative to GOP front-runners 
George Bush and Bob Dole but he finished far 
down in the Iowa caucuses and the New 
Hampshire primary.
Babbitt, his campaign flattened by poor 
showings in Iowa and New Hampshire, de
clared today 1 am free'' and announced he w as 
withdrawing from the Democratic presiden
tial race but not from the cause that brought 
me into this political arena.
Babbitt, in his campaign for the Democratic 
presidential nomination, finished fifth in Iowa 
and sixth in New Hampshire.
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter 
Funding for Carnival security was heavily 
debated at last weeks Student Senate meeting, 
as senators were unable to resolve the issue 
and tabled it for two weeks.
Senator Tamal Mukherjee, Chairman of the 
Funding and Recognition Committee, mo
tioned to give Carnival $1500 for 30 to 40 
security monitors. Last year monitors were 
used to supplement security. Senator Vidal 
Graupera, a member of the committee, ques
tioned the funding stating that he was afraid it 
would not be well spent activities fee money 
and claiming that friends of the chairmen 
would probably get the jobs.
Chairman of Spring Carnival Rob Longenecker explained his view to the senators. 
He said anyone can sign up to be a monitor and 
names are picked from a pool. Each person 
chosen must attend all training sessions.
The monitors are a deterrent, there to watch, 
report, and even be witnesses to crimes. Last 
year they found lost children and reported
many crimes.
Heated debate began when Senator David 
Gantshar offerred to recruit volunteers rather 
than spend students activities fee. 
Longeneckers response was, You cant. 
Gantshars ability to recruit monitors was 
questioned because he is a freshman and unfa
miliar with Carnival. When he continued to 
contend that he could recuit the necessary 
monitors. Mukherjee said that this would be 
inconvenient to Longenecker since he is pro
viding his service and experience.
Another senator said Gantshar should have a 
chance at finding the monitors and saving 
money. Senator Lisa Christina pointed out that 
if paying for the monitors prevents one crime 
from happening, the funding would be worth
while.
Mukherjee was willing to add a rider to the 
motion stating that if Gantshar could not find 
40 people to volunteer to be monitors then the 
money would be given to Carnival. However, 
a motion made by Senator Charles Jainchill to 
table the issue for two weeks was passed.
Four candidates to receive 
honorary degree in May
lSMEOA1CP
Simon 17%
Gephardtj
20%
RS. 91M0PmgAS 0AgM1Ab ASP2TCP
S02yTgO1cP
Jackson 8% 
Gore 7%
Dole 29%.
Babbitt 5% 
Hart 4% 
Others
3%
Dukakis
36%
Kemp 13%
du Pont 11 %
Robertson 
10%
Bush 38%
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
Four candidates have accepted invitations to 
receive honorary degrees at commencement 
on Sunday, May 15. They are former Pennsyl
vania Governor Richard Thornburgh, director 
of the Enrico Fermi Laboratory Leon Lederman, professor Howard Raiffa, and play
wright August Wilson.
Wilson was bom in Pittsburgh in 1945. His 
first Broadway play, Ma Raineys Black Bottom, won critical acclaim in 1985. The play ran 
more than eight months and featured James 
Earl Jones. A published poet, Wilson formed 
an activist dramatic troupe in Pittsburgh dur
ing the 1960s.
Raiffa has been the Frank P. Ramsey Profes
sor of Managerial Economics at Harvard for 
twelve years. Noted for his work in decision 
sciences, he has written books on statistics, 
decision theory, and negotiations.
Pittsburgh native Dick Thornburgh was gov
ernor of Pennsylvania from 1979 to 1987. His 
two terms occurred during a period of eco
nomic recovery for the state. He also has been 
credited with reforming the states Depart
ment of Transportation. At present he is the 
director of Harvard's Institute of Politics.
Lederman is the director of the Fermi Na
tional Accelerator Laboratory, a physics re
search center in Batavia. Illinois. He has been 
involved with high energy elementary particle 
research for over thirty years. He received the 
National Medal of Science in 1965.V

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 23,1988
Minutes of Student Senate: 2/16
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm.
sSc1CEAP 3ASPScCK
Lisa Christina, Stuart deJong, Don Dennis, 
Dustin Frazier, Laurie Gallo, David Gantshar. 
Vidal Graupera, Allen Greenberg, Dana 
Hausman, Christian Herrick, Charles 
Jainchill, Glenn Kornbrek, Erica Levy, 
Audrey Liu, Tamal Mukherjee, Chris Neigh
bor. Karen Pavlosky, Kishore Rao, Matthew 
Ruben. Mark Steppel, Pete Zapf.
Senators absent: Pete Berger. Dave Jacowitz (exc), Hal Levine.
Ex-officio Members Present: Andy Robitshek. Glenn Detillo (rep), Kerry Skolkin 
Members-at Large Present: Greg Vaserstein. Dennis Wilke. Rudy Zung.
Members-at-Large Absent: Hoa Trinh, 
Aaron Solomon (exc).
Presidents report: Andy Robitshek: no re
port.
slt S0EACK Karen Pavlosky
1. Meal plan will be up 6.5% next semester.
2. There is a new TV in Doherty.
3. Donner microwave is being fixed.
4. $700.00 allocated to buy new mats for 
aerobics classes.
ukt AS0EACK no report.
sC2UScC vee1gAP S0EACK Dean Walter: no 
report.
tm1gA.EM1c$P S0EACK Erica Levy
5. Need lock for Macintosh.
6. Sign sheet when at office hours.
7. Possibility of Campus Affairs Committee 
getting a presidential candidate to speak on 
campus. Senator Greenberg: The government 
relations office is trying to get them.
fAS1P2ASAhP S0EACK Andy Skolkin: no re
port.
vO1USMgO vee1gAP S0EACK Lisa Christina
8. Mark Steppel wrote a letter to president 
Cyert suggesting that 7:30 exams be given 
during leisure hours.
9. Senator Gantshar spoke to Dean Schaffer. 
Maybe teaching awards can be basis for other 
awards.
10. Senator Gantshar will look into the pur
chases at the libraries.
1 1. Architecture still does not have a dean.
12. There is no more glass blowing major.
13. Tuition goes towards music classes for 
non-music majors, but not private lessons.
Campus Affairs Report: Glenn Kornbrek
14. There will be no jello wrestling.
15. Vandalized phone in Doherty is being 
fixed. If anyone has information about the 
vandalizing contact Senate, because they 
know who to contact.
16. Fish are allowed in dorm rooms, but not 
hamsters.
17. Senators Liu and Kornbrek talked to the 
Business Administration sub-committee 
about outdoor lighting on campus.
18. In order to have shuttle service to Squirrel 
Hill, Housing would have to pay for it, but 
wont because no campus housing is there.
k2cUgcI 1cU SOEIcgCgEc S0EACK Tamal 
Mukherjee:
20. Motion to allocate AB $1500.00 for stu
dent security monitors during Carnival was 
tabled for two weeks so Senator Gantshar has 
time to try to find student volunteers instead.
21. Motion passed to allocate $3500.00 to 
AB for the dance during carnival.
22. Senator Jainchill: F&R members read 
draft of discussion for allocating money for 
buggies by the meeting.
32yTgO ST1CgEcP S0EACK Laurie Gallo
23. There is a new Senate sign in the office.
24. Need T-shirt design by next meeting.
2TSP S0EACK Pete Berger
25. Finished discussing offenses in hand
book.
26. Gave Senator Ruben advise about smok
ing rules.
27. Got classified research policy from Fac
ulty Senate.
28. Faculty Senate will vote on it on February 
25, 4 pm.
29. Will discuss hazardous waste policy at 
next meeting.
30. University attorney A1 Brannick is work
ing on the university alcohol policy.
,TU a2PgcSPPK
31. Senator Ruben apologizes for the way he 
was describing the jello situation last week.
RS. a2PgcSPPK
32. Resolution passed by Senate to name the 
new dorm after Judith Resnik. Chairman Levy 
will bring it up at PSAC.
33. Senator Gallo should receive a Senate 
award for entering the Sexy Body Parts contest 
at Scotland Yard.
34. Student Government President Andy 
Robitsheks resolution to have a Student Sen
ate member on each student advisory commit
tee for each college was passed by Senate. The 
resolution will be brought to Faculty Senate.
3EgcCP Ee lgPO2PPgEcK none.
vccE2cOSMScCPK
35. WRCT will discuss time management on 
Sunday at 8:30 and student opinions on SEI on 
Monday. Students can call in.
36. Executive committee meet at Scotland 
Yard Tuesday at 6.
LDd sSS vcUb ge bE2 m18S 1cb OEMMScCP
1yE2C ASC1gT PCEASPd
Meeting adjourned 8:20 pm.
Cable may be here in August
continued from page 1
including a host of standard channels 
such as MTV, ESPN, Arts and Enter
tainment and local stations. HBO, the 
Playboy channel, Cinemax, and other 
pay TV channels will not be available 
due to restrictions imposed by the dis
tributer. Cable will also provide better 
reception for channels notoriously hard 
to get, such as WTAE-TV, the local 
ABC affiliate.
In 1982, Martin had discussed installa
tion of cable TV with Warner Cable 
Company, which had an exclusive fran
chise in the Pittsburgh area. Unfortu
nately. the company was not interested 
and wiring along Morewood or Forbes 
Avenue was too costly.
In the summer of 1985, The Pittsburgh 
Cable Company bought out Warner 
Cable Company and in the fall, negotia
tions began again. Optimism ran high 
and it looked as though cable would 
have been available by the summer of
1986.
Obviously, the plans fell through. The 
cable company preferred to provide 
campus-wide wiring and lost interest 
when Bell of Pennsylvania was given a 
contract as vendor to provide wiring. 
For years, Martin periodically spoke to 
cable company executives and only this 
January did he get a promising response.
Student response to the possibility of 
cable TV seems to range from enthusi
asm to disinterest, depending on the 
variety of channels offered.f
CMU oUun se Cslsiisg 
Cs&St
Engelhard helps make many of the products we use everyday even though the company name doesnt ap
pear on most of them. Engelhard products and technologies help make the cars we drive, clothing we wear, 
food we eat, homes and offices and plants where we live and work, telephones and computers that make us 
efficient, magazines and books we read, pharmaceuticals and vitamins that keep us healthy. The 
companys materials perform vital functions in a customers manufacturing process or serve critical purposes 
providing reliability, or giving a certain characteristic to the customers finished product. Thats why 
Engelhard is known as a Performance Products company. And why technology is so important in enabling 
the company to continue advancing the leading edge in quality to give us an advantage over competition by 
meeting the needs of customers in our markets. Engelhard is organized into two major operating divi
sionsSpecialty Chemicals and Specialty Metals.
ENGELHARD IS COMING TO CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY!
Recruiting Interviews 
March 7th, 1988 
9:00AM-4:30PM
(Contact your Placement Office)
Engelhard is a Fortune 200 company offering employment opportunities that are unparalleled. Our 18-month 
Graduate Development Program provides new graduates with an excellent balance of process/project orien
tation and hands-on experiences. At Engelhard, youll gain valuable exposure to a rotation of operations 
process, maintenance, R & D, and developmental assignments. Plus, you will enjoy an environment that is 
conducive to your professional growth. To learn more about the career opportunities available, plan to meet 
with our representatives on campus. Well show you how Engelhards exceptional technologies can bring
you the best of tomorrow. . . today!
ByJ
An Equal Opportunity Employer
BUDYDYHARR v/XvXvX
mmm
9

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 5
Korean steelmaker endows $1 million for chair in MEMS
continued from page 1
Mellon at the dedication of the school. While 
he was in Korea, Jordan spoke with Park and 
suggested that he consider funding a chair at 
Carnegie Mellon. Park was interested in the 
idea and agreed to think about it. When 
Pohangs Vice President for Academic Affi fairs visited Carnegie Mellon last year, Jordan 
again raised the subject.
After more correspondence on the matter, a 
general agreement was reached a few months 
ago. Last week, the Vice President returned to 
Carnegie Mellon and signed an agreement 
with Jordan and Carnegie Mellon President 
Richard Cyert.
Under the agreement, the POSCO chair in
0 Iron and Steel Making will be established in 
MEMS. POSCO will give Carnegie Mellon 
one million dollars to fund the chair. Half of 
the money is being paid now and the other half 
will be paid in three years. According to the 
head of MEMS, Anthony Thompson, a chair 
usually comes with a gift of 1.25 to 1.5 million 
dollars and the university will probably pro
vide the rest.
tUeberroth speaks at Fairless lecture
continued from page 1
to ask questions. Ueberroth commented on 
how he felt about any country boycotting the 
Olympics as a political tool. They hurt athletes, he said, but they dont achieve any
thing politically.
Ueberroths lecture was sponsored by the 
Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lecture series 
and organized by the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration.
Jordan says that the establishment of a chair 
is beneficial both to the university and to the 
professor chosen to occupy it. The university 
benefits from the fact that the professors sal
ary and some other expenses are paid from the 
earnings of the money given to establish the 
chair. The professor gains the prestige of 
having been recognized as a standout in his 
field. A professor holds a chair indefinitely, 
often until retirement.
The POSCO chair will be MEMS' third 
permanent chair. Currently there is a United 
States Steel chair and a chair sponsored by
alumni contributions named after ex-depart
ment head Robert Mehl. The department also 
has a temporary chair given by Alcoa.
Jordan declined to name the professor who 
will probably fill the chair. However, Jordan 
said that he is a professor who is already in the 
Metallurgical Engineering and Material Sci
ence department. It is an expert in iron and 
steel making. It is probably the best professor 
in research and in iron and in steelmaking in 
the country. There will be a ceremony near 
the end of the semester to officially award the 
chair.
Both Jordan and Thompson anticipate that 
professors from Carnegie Mellon will visit 
Pohang on a regular basis. The professor who 
holds the chair will probably make two or three 
trips a year and other professors will go to 
Korea from time to time. It is also possible that 
professors from Pohang will come to Carnegie 
Mellon. Thompson feels that the exchanges 
will be useful, saying that the research at 
Pohang is pretty good.
POSCO was founded in 1968. Its two steel
works have the capacity to produce 11.8 mil
lion tons of steel a year.
Crime and Incident: 2/15 to 2/19
2/15/88 THEFT 9:46 am Persons un
known stole a push button wall telephone 
from the 1300 corridor of Wean Hall. Value 
unknown.
 2/15/88 THEFT 1:30 pm Persons un
known removed 16 prints of artwork from 
Doherty Hall. Approximate value: $3000.
2/15/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON Vic
tim reported suspicious white male in her 
CFA office. The actor had slurred speech 
and reddish hair. He wore a long grey-black 
tweed overcoat. He was later stopped on the 
steps of the gym by Security. He was iden
tified and stated he was on campus to meet 
a friend. He was told he was not permitted 
on campus unless accompanied by some
one affiliated with CMU.
2/16/88 HARASSMENT 9:29 am Vic
tim has been harassed from September to 
the present. The harassment has occurred 
both in person and on the phone. The actor
was a white male, 5 6, wearing a black sweat
shirt.
2/16/88 INDECENT ASSAULT 9:35 pm 
Victim stated that she was walking on Centre 
Ave. near the Shadyside Hospital. A black 
male drove by and spoke to her. She spoke 
back. She continued walking and stopped at a 
convenience store and then proceeded to her 
residence. The black male was standing out
side her residence. He forced the victim 
against the brick wall of the building and 
kissed her. The victim pushed the actor away 
and entered her building. The actor pulled on 
the door, but was unable to open it. The actor 
was about 20 years old, 57, with a thin build, 
short hair, and a thin mustache. He wore a 
short, black leather jacket, blue jeans, and hard 
shoes or boots. His teeth were bucked with a 
gap in the front.
2/17/88 THEFT 10:36 am Persons unknown 
removed portable Sony battery powered radio
from victims office in Mellon Institute. 
Value approximately $20.
2/18/88 THEFT 4:35 pm Victim re
ported that while he was playing video 
games in the Tartan Grill persons unknown 
stole his Obermeyer brand waist-length ski 
jacket. Approximate value $60.
2/19/88 THEFT 12:48 am Victim stated 
that a wheel was stolen from his bicycle 
while it was parked in Area 1.
2/19/88 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 4:09 
am Victim stated that he and two fraternity 
brothers were on DUs porch when persons 
unknown threw a rock at a 5 by 7 foot 
window. The window was cracked. No 
description of the actor could be given.
2/19/88 SPECIAL 5:43 am Officer on 
patrol found 25 advertisements for frater
nity parties in Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Hall. The ads were confiscated and taken to 
the Deans office.

*

At A? At At At At At At:*
? Summer Sun! 
T T1 Summer fun! 1 sa (and money, too!) 9
> dv v00TgO1CgEcP eEA D 181gT1yTS p
eC 3AStETTSISv3v tE2cPSTEA eC
b 0EPgCgEcP eEA CmS OEMgcI s2MMSA i
f 1AS cE. 181gT1yTS gc CmS l
/ 9E2PgcI ,eegOSd f
v fmSPS 0EPgCgEcP 1AS e2TTCgMS v
_ eAEM V2cS _Cm CmAE2Im v2I2PC V
Hwf DCmo .gCm PEMS 1UUgCgEc1T pwf
SM0TEbMScC 181gT1yTS U2AgcI CmS 
ASM1gcgcI .SSrP Ee CmS s2MMSAd eC
i 3TS1PS OEcC1OC CmS 9E2PgcI p
Q ,eegOS -"L_' eEA MEAS f
p gceEAM1CgEcd p
v00TgO1CgEc lS1UTgcSK CS
_T TTriHiiv k0mAc1A8 "NCm F?
9;
kAgU1bo kSyA21Ab "NCm p
At At At At At At At At :*
DUn vpmsrmU& 2p 6s8i 
-n8&Upn DsmUiplUpn
-n8&Upn -UpSnU 9SASpA2Uuf
Vacancies are now being filled in the following colleges:
H&SS 1 Seat
CFA 1 Spring Seat
Computer Science 1 Seat
SUPA 1 Seat
GSIA 3 Seats
Pick up your petitions at the Skibo Info. 
Desk. Due Monday, February 29, 1988.
Funded by your student activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

EditorialCyert still has some unfinished business
After 15 years in office, President Richard M. Cyert has been 
thinking about stepping down.
In a memo addressed to the campus community, Cyert announced 
last Wednesday that the Board of Trustees had convinced him to stay 
on as President indefinitely, foregoing the option of leaving after the 
1989 academic year.
When the sixth president does step down, though, it will be the end 
of an era here at Carnegie Mellon  if it can be credited to one man, 
then Cyert put CMU on the map.
In 1972 Cyert took over a small, regional technical college, and 
since then he has transformed it into a world-renowned liberalprofessional university.
But for all the good hes done for the University, Cyert still has some 
unfinished business:
The University Center. The University Center has to be the number 
one priority for this administration. We need the Center today  
construction should start immediately. As Board of Trustees Chair
man Douglas Danforth said, Put a spade in the ground. As long as 
Carnegie Mellon is a University, it has a foremost commitment to its 
students, both enrolled and future, and to its faculty. These are the 
people who will benefit from the Center. CMUs endowment is $225 
million; it might be time to dip into it.
The Capital Campaign. Ever since weve started keeping track, 
Warner Hall has been using the Capital Campaign as an excuse for 
everything from the University Center to prices in the bookstore. 
Without money, were told, none of the things weve been promised 
will ever materialize. Carnegie Mellon, through the Capital Cam
paign, has been trying to raise $200 million for the last two years with 
little success. But Washington University, an institution of compa
rable size in St. Louis, raised $630.5 million in five years, 110% more 
than their original target. A lot of that money came from the St. Louis 
community  from people who never attended Washington. How 
much has Pittsburgh given to CMU? Maybe CMU isnt a good 
neighbor.
Undergraduate teaching. Carnegie Mellon is walking a fine line 
between teaching and research. Unfortunately, sometimes the Uni
versity falls off the line. CMU has developed a distinct measure of 
educational quality: our undergraduate teaching is only as good as 
our research. This philosophy, though, leads to an unacceptable 
problem: too often faculty members are researchers who teach, 
instead of teachers who research.
Visibility. Many students do not even recognize Cyert when he 
plays tennis in front of Margaret Morrison. Open office hours are 
excellent, but they arent quite enough. How about an open house in 
Morrisons or Morewood Gardens once in a while? Cyert is acces
sible, but he should make an effort to be more accessible.
General education. One of the problems identified in the Quality 
of Life study was with general education  education which 
provides students with a broad understanding of and curiosity about 
the physical, social, cultural, humanistic, and artistic worlds  and 
the solution was the addition of a mid-winter short term. Thats a step 
in the right direction, but think about what its saying to students: you 
can have fun but only when Warner Hall says you can. Attack the 
problem headfirst. Dont set aside a play time; lighten the work
load and let us take interesting courses during the regular semesters.
Quality of student life. The Quality of Student Life Task Force was 
a great idea; it forced administrators, faculty, and students to get 
together and discuss the problems with student life. That commit
ment must continue. After all the hubbub last spring and fall, what 
have you heard about the quality of student life lately? More 
importantly, other than that large report, have you seen anything 
come out of the Task Force?
Retail stores. The on-campus retail stores charge outrageous 
prices, close too early, and offer a limited selection. Student Senate 
has been trying to solve these problems, but they are fighting an 
uphill battle. The leadership has to come from Warner Hall.
IM field. How long do we have to wait for artificial turf on the IM 
fields? It's no secret that were short on space; lets use that space to 
its fullest potential. Too often the field is little more than a swamp 
with lights.
Athletic facilities. The Gymnasium is a disgrace to Carnegie 
Mellon. Too bad thats often the only building visiting athletes see. 
Think about that  do we want the Gym to represent our university?
 Lectures/concerts. Heres a way to improve the general education: 
sponsor more lectures and concerts. Almost every lecture on-campus 
is well attended; Ueberroth packed the Ballroom. The University has 
to be willing to spend a little more to bring in a few big names. But 
maybe thats not even the case: Ueberroth didnt cost a cent. Maybe 
its just a case of not looking.
Student ombudsman. Appointing a student ombudsman was an
other excellent idea, but, again, the implementation is a bit off. At 
least initially, the ombudsman needs to go out, find problems, and 
attack them. Once students see that he is effective, they will come to 
him. How many issues is the ombudsman handling now?
Cyert is an excellent President and his leadership has pushed 
Carnegie Mellon to the forefront of higher education. To get us over 
the top, though, we need  now more than ever  the stability and 
continuity his administration can give us.
Taart think 17/
 Cf round o ioi-L 
Icncjer-.'
cTggTOaoAuthor of unprinted Tai Chi article responds
Editor:
Recently I submitted an article to 
The Tartan. It was about my Kung 
fu/Tai Chi teacher Luping Zhang, a 
doctoral student here in the Math 
Department, and a master of Chi
nese martial arts. In my article, I de
scribed Luping as the exemplar that 
he is, exemplar of a culture that is all 
but lost. One of the few representa
tives of arts whose development are 
said to date back 5000 years, with 
the need to fight off brutal invasions 
of the Mongols. I paid homage to a 
humble representative of these arts, 
steeped in oriental tradition and 
philosophy, techniques said to have 
been brought to earth by spiritual 
beings, movements that were aug
mented by the Indian > Avatar 
Bodhidharma. I was critical of a 
couple of things in the article, our 
arrogance as a culture in assuming 
that our material riches are always 
better than the knowledge gained by 
these now-decimated cultures, and I 
was critical of karate, which to me is 
a bastardization of poorly learned 
Chinese techniques.
I was not promised a spot in the 
Features section, but I was given 
mild assurance, which I trusted, that 
my article would be published. 
When it didnt appear in this past 
issue, I called The Tartan to ask why, 
and I was told that the article had too 
much editorializing, and that it was a 
bit controversial for the Features 
section. I was asked to resubmit it as 
a letter to the editor. Im sending this 
instead.
Well folks, I know it isnt my writ
ing. I mean. Im not the best writer, 
but I worked as a professional writer 
before coming to Carnegie Mellon, 
and I am at least certain that my 
competence is as good as that of The 
Tartan's staff writers. My decision 
to write the article came because of 
my desire to help my teacher and to 
put a controversial article in front of 
the community of which I feel very 
much a part. I was hoping to cause a 
little stir for certain.
So I thought about what Id writ
ten, and about the quality, and about 
my editorializing (which is quite ap
parent in the piece), and I said to 
myself, Why am I doing this to my
self? All I have to think about is what 
The Tartan chose to print in my 
articles place, yes now I remem
ber. If you will recall, what ap
peared in the Features section last 
week, was the Sexy Body Parts 
contest. Not only that, as I look just 
now, the featured photograph shows 
a woman with not-bad looking legs, 
and the behind of a man with a rear 
end that is no better than my own 
(and I am no candidate for Play girl).
I think The Tartan made a mistake. 
Im sorry, but my article about Kung 
fu, Tai Chi, and Luping Zhang was a 
better bet than the Sexy Body 
Parts contest. And another thing, I 
certainly dont ever again want to 
see pictures of a semi-nudity contest 
in which I could probably compete. 
It was yucko at best, forgive me 
contestants.
Think about it. Here we are in sup
posedly one of the intellectual capi
tals of the world, and no doubt I am ^ 
only a minor player in the scheme of 
things here, but I think there should 
be some evidence in our widely dis
tributed campus publication that this 
is the case. Perhaps my article is not 
representative of substantial intel
lectual value, but really, it was a dam 
sight better than what actually got 
printed. Look, Im as interested in jp 
sex as anyone (believe you me), its 
just that somewhere after the sixth 
grade, I discovered that there were 
other things of value in the world 
which had nothing to do with sex 
(no!), portions of Chinese history 
being among them.
Peter Capell
Research Assoc., Hunt Library
Ed. note: While The Tartan does 
accept articles and columns from 
the CMU community, we cannot 
print everything that is submitted. 
Our first priority for available 
space is to our regular staffwriters 
who work on assignment.
Does Academic Computing focus on students?
Editor:
What is Academic Computing?
A recent article in the Student 
Union included some inaccuracies 
about the structure of the computing 
organization at CMU. Considering 
how much that structure has 
changed over the past few years, 
some confusion is understandable.
Within the division of Academic 
Services, which combines comput
ing and libraries, three departments 
are responsible for the day to day 
provision of computing resources: 
Academic Computing, Computing 
Systems, and Networking and Tele
communication. These three depart
ments are collectively known as 
Computing Services.
AC, which is directed by Jean 
Dexheimer, has responsibility for a 
wide range of user support and assis
tance activities. This includes, 
among other things, Advisor serv
ices on all systems; management of 
public computer clusters; sales, 
service, and consulting on personar 
computers; the Cursor newsletter; 
account administration; and acquisi
tion and installation of application 
programs.
Cluster Services 
The article in the Student Union 
particularly criticized shortcomings 
in cluster services. AC welcomes 
serious suggestions for improving^ 
our service, since no organization or 
person is flawless, and the customer 
always has the right to complain - 
But wed like to point out how much 
service we provide and what a large 
portion of our efforts goes into that 
service.
continued on page ^

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 7
uUd.1O1U0 i1Unar
A few suggestions on how and where to spend mid-semester
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Its hard to believe. Mid-Semester Break is 
only a weekend away. Just think, only eight 
more weeks of living hell until summertime. 
Then, all you have to think about is why you 
plan on coming 
back.
So youve got this 
extra day and need a 
way to relax. How
ever, relaxing at Carnegie Mellon is like eve
rything else at Carnegie Mellon, if it were 
really good, you would have already missed it.
The solution is to just get the hell out of heret
r chrissakes. But, you dont know where to 
>; the only time youve been off campus was 
for purple hooters Thursday nights at PHI. So, 
weve come up with a list of places to go, 
people to see, and drinks to try.
The number one place on your itinerary 
should be Calgary and the 1988 Winter Olym
pics. If youre going, remember to take your 
Visa, because Calgary and the Winter Olym
pics dont take American Express. While 
^oure there, you can double Americas medal 
count.
If you want to go to the Caribbean, get hired 
by Alcosan, the Allegheny County Sanitation 
Authority, which seems to have one of the best 
benefits packages of any company: four days 
of paid travel for every two working days.
If you prefer the Mediterranean, how about 
the Gaza Strip? Spend your first night getting 
^beat up by Israeli soldiers then the next 4ay 
you can be a participant in their world-famous
5 minute trials.
While in the Middle East, you can take a sidetrip to lovely, downtown Beirut, the place
American soldiers and professors cant seem 
to leave.
If your passport isn 't current, why not fly out 
to Hollywood? Once there, you can personally 
thank the National Academy of Motion Pic
tures for once again leaving Steven Spielberg 
out of their party.
In everyones plans should be a primary 
state, any primary state. Campaign there for 
two days, and you should be able to get more 
votes than Gary Hart and Jack Kemp com
bined.
For something closer to home, you could go 
to Indiana and visit the toll booth Allen Green
berg sat in for one and a half hours.
If you cant afford to go anywhere, try one of 
these ideas.
Continuously call the Whats New at Car
negie Mellon hotline until you hear about 
something new. This may take a while, so 
make sure youve got a quarter-keg handy.
For variety, alternate calls with the More 
Pizza delivery lines. You can make a game out 
of it: you lose a point every time you call, but 
get five points every time you get through, ten 
if they deliver it, fifteen if they get your ad
dress right, and twenty if the food actually 
tastes good. If you finish the weekend with a 
positive score you win.
You could always walk down to Pitt and get 
beaten up by a member of their football or 
basketball teams, maybe both if you go to the 
right party.
If you want to exercise your brains, sit up all 
night and figure out why the NFC West has 
New Orleans and Atlanta, why the NFC East 
has Dallas and Phoenix, and why the Steelers 
still have Mark Malone.
Rock Talk  Throwing Stones
By ART BUCHWALD
Things are getting tense, not only in Israel, 
but in the United States, over the riots on the 
West Bank.
No matter where you stand youre in the 
wrong place.
What would you do 
if someone threw 
rocks at you? Jeffrey 
Risked me.
I dont want to talk 
about it, I said. All I 
know about killing is 
what I see on TV.
TV only tells you 
half of what is going 
on. They dont show 
what the other side is 
^ioing, Jeffrey said.
Thats why I dont 
watch television. They 
never tell you the 
whole story.
Nobody likes to see peoples hands broken, 
but its better than shooting them.
Look, could we go on to something more 
cheery like General Noriegas connection 
^with dope smugglers in Panama?"
Jeffrey was hanging tough. The Palestini
ans should go back to their camps and behave 
like civilized refugees until someone works 
out a solution to the problem.
Im with you 100 percent.
Do you see anything wrong with rubber bul
lets? Jeffrey wanted to know.
Nothing, if used in moderation. Rubber 
Jwllets save lives.
If you asked me about tear gas I would say 
it is accepted as a defensive weapon against an 
unfriendly populace and is especially wel
come during an insurrection, Jeffrey said. 
Who told you that?
No one told me. I saw it on television. 
Tear gas isnt my specialty," I admitted. 
Then what do you think about water can_nons?
And to help you stay here, spend the week
end with the brand-new, simplified W-4 form, 
trying to increase your new deductible.
If you want to do something educational, 
take a correspondence course in your favorite 
professors language: Polish, Korean, or Zulu.
Feeling ambitious? Go out and raise $ 10 mil
lion. THEN come up with the dumbest name 
(like RPIs Hall Hall) for the new University 
Center and make them call it that.
Finally, when it all gets too much, pretend
cT bg m.OUr
that youre in CFA and start stringing red 
plastic lines all over the trees. Who knows, if 
you do a good enough job, maybe theyll let 
you apply for Art Department head too!
There you have it. Butt-loads of things to do 
this weekend. Of course, were not going to do 
any of those things. By the time we wake up 
Tuesday afternoon, we're going to have hang
overs bigger than Mel Shapiros ego.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson.
An army marches on its soldiers
Theyre more my style. I never used one or 
had one used against me, but it seems to me its 
an answer to everything. Once you fire water 
cannons, where else can the other side go but 
down? I said.
Water cannons dont always work, so 
sometimes you have 
to grab the perpetra
tors and smack them 
around.
Thats understood 
from the start. When 
you're an occupying 
power you have to get 
physical or theyll 
walk all over you. 
Did you know the 
stone throwers were 
trained by the Rus
sians? Jeffrey said.
I didnt know that, 
but it makes sense. 
Kids dont know how 
to throw rocks unless someone teaches them. 
All were trying to do is get them to lay 
down their rocks. The Israeli army is not using 
any more force than is absolutely permitted by 
the government, which doesnt know how 
much force is really necessary. Are you for 
what were doing in Gaza?
Im for it 100 percent.
Because if youre not for us, then youre 
against us.
I agree with everything thats going on, I 
said, otherwise why would Israel be getting 
such good press?
You dont sound like youre sold on the pol
icy.
I say an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, 
and if you cant get peace with rubber bullets, 
use real ones until people come to their
senses.
Jeffrey said, I dont know if youre serious 
or not.
Funny, 1 was thinking the same thing about
you.
By MICHAEL WITBROCK &
MICHAEL FRANZINI
In 1968, when he was 19 years old, the Army 
drafted Perry Watkins. At the time, he told the 
induction office that he was gay. They told him 
that they needed 
proof, and drafted 
him anyway. During 
the next year, whilst 
on duty in West Ger
many, he was assaulted several times by other 
soldiers. He asked the Army to discharge him. 
He gave them a list of his lovers as proof that 
he was, in the parlance of the time, a practic
ing homosexual. The Army refused to let him 
leave.
Eventually, Perry Watkins grew to like his 
job in the Army. He came to like being a 
soldier, and was commended regularly in 
annual evaluations, being praised by his supe
riors as one of our most respected and trusted 
soldiers. His dedication to his job grew in 
spite of the fact that he continued to be dis
criminated against. Never, in an exemplary 16 
year career, being promoted beyond the rank 
of Sergeant: They said, in effect, that when it 
comes to your job, youre a soldier; when it 
comes to promotions, you're a homosexual.
In 1981, the Army changed: acknowledge
ment that one was gay became sufficient 
grounds for dismissal. In 1984, after losing a 
lawsuit. Staff Sergeant Perry Watkins was 
dismissed form the US Army, four years be
fore he was eligible for a pension. For 16 
years, the Army said being homosexual wasn't 
detrimental to my job. Then, after the fact, they 
said it was. Logic is a lost art in the Army. 
Last year, 1,398 other men and women were 
discharged from the armed forces because 
they were gay or lesbian.
Despite the fact that his dismissal left him 
impoverished. Sergeant Perry took the Army 
to court again. He won. In an enlightened 2-1 
ruling, the United States Court of Appeals for 
the Ninth Circuit, San Francisco, held that 
governmental discrimination against persons 
of homosexual orientation was as suspect 
constitutionally as discrimination against ra
cial minorities. The dissenting Judge did not 
disagree with this reasoning, but claimed he
HERBLOCKS CARTOON_______
*WE HAVE RESTOREP 7H AMERKftJ
was forced to follow the anti-homosexual 
thrust of recent Supreme Court decisions,
evinced by the egregiously wrong 1986 
ruling in favor of laws regulating private, 
consentual sexual behavior.
Since the Armed Forces are likely to mount 
an appeal against the decision, the Supreme 
Court seems set to re-examine the question of 
whether gay and lesbian citizens should be 
allowed the same rights that others take for 
granted. The composition of the court has been 
altered since the 1986 Georgia Sodomy 
Decision, Justice Powell is gone. Justice 
Kennedy is majority sentiments about sexu
ality instead of defending the constitutional 
rights to privacy. It has a chance to start undo
ing the damage  it can return to gay men and 
women their right to equal protection under 
the law.
In the meantime, the Pentagon continues to 
discriminate. It says that the presence of lesbi
ans and gays impairs discipline, good order 
and morale, and hinders efforts to maintain 
the public acceptability of the military serv
ice." When government departments practice 
deliberate and cruel discrimination against 
good citizens like Sergeant Watkins, it is their 
behavior that is unacceptable. The Armed 
Forces continue to attack the rights of citizens, 
to practice discrimination, and to promote 
prejudice. They must be shown that this is no 
more acceptable today than it was 40 years ago 
when blacks were the target. Kicking the 
ROTC off campus if it does not adopt a non
discrimination policy would be a good start.
The Tartan
Editor-m-Chief.............................Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor..........................Erika Peterson
Business Manager........................Russ Seligman
News Editor............................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor.......................Chris Young
Features Editors...............................Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor.......................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor..................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor..........................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor...............Andy Gillespie
Photo Darkroom Editor...............Albrecht Powell
Art Editor...............................(rani Carmichael
Literary Editor........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager...............Dustin L. Frasier
Copy Editor.................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors.............................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil (reenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university community It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc Subscriptions are available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual authors who are not necessarily on The T artan editorial board or staff Letter to the Editor are opinions of ndivtdual authors who are usually members of the University community A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer s address and phone number tor venfication. Names wifi be withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the nght to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright C 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit tor publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee All rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890 3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 23,1988
sSUaTOy2g1yT sSOUTOr
Civil Rights Act would bring unwarranted government intervention

By THOMAS A. HEIM
The Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1988 is 
an attempt to force government intrusion into 
churches, synagogues, church-backed hospi
tals, private schools, and small businesses.
The Act, should it 
become law, would 
create a stifling new 
barrage of federal 
regulations and bu
reaucrats, not to mention the tremendous costs 
of such activity. The Act is a legislative re
sponse to a Supreme Court decision several 
years ago.
In 1984, the Supreme Court issued a land
mark decision involving Grove City College 
here in Pennsylvania. The College itself never 
received federal aid of any kind, but about 
25% of the students received some form of 
federal financial aid. The Department of Edu
cation asked Grove City College to execute a 
formal Assurance of Compliance" that 
would hold the college to policies that would 
not discriminate against women in its program 
of student aid. If Grove City did not execute 
the Assurance, the Education Department 
would end aid to all the other students.
However, Grove City had not discriminated 
against women and it stood on principle 
against the unwarranted federal intrusion. No 
accusation of discrimination had ever been 
made against the College, but the government 
pursued the case in the courts. Title IX of the 
Education Amendment of 1972 bans discrimi
nation in any program or activity" receiving 
federal assistance. The question was: Did this 
mean that the whole of Grove City was cov
ered by the law, or that the programs, like stu
dent financial aid, had to be federally super
vised?
The Supreme Court, in a 6-3 decision, held 
that any program or activity meant that the 
institution as a whole was not subject to federal 
requirements. An attempt to effectively over
turn the court is The Civil Rights Restoration 
Act of 1988. The courts decision, however, 
applies only to sex discrimination in educa
tional institutions; the Restoration Act would 
forbid discrimination by reason of sex, race or 
handicap in far more than educational institu
tions.
The Act would require federal regulation of 
just about anything that received any federal
or Welfare checks, and farmers who receive 
crop subsidies or price supports would be 
under surveillance. Public and private schools 
that have government supported lunch pro
grams would have stacks of new volumes of 
government regulatibns with which they must 
conform.
Private hospitals that treated one person on 
federal assistance or that are affiliated with an 
educational institution would be required to 
treat abortions in the same manner as any 
other service since discrimination by sex in 
Title IX is construed to refer to abortions as 
well. This has obvious ramifications on CathoU8SAbCmgcIo IAEOSAb PCEASPddd c2APgcI mEMSPddd y1crPddd 
1cU e1AMSAPddd .E2TU yS 2cUSA P2A8SgTT1cOSd7
crimination in all aspect of our lives. What we 
dont need is a new army of feds to come 
reaching into all the aspects of our lives, while 
we foot the bill. Are we ready to see the gov
ernment implement an affirmative action pro
gram for farmers in Kansas so that they hire py 
women only until the number of female 
farmhands equals the number of male 
farmhands? The job opening for a cow-milker 
presents an equally qualified man and woman 
with an equal opportunity, even though the 
results of this opportunity are hardly ever 
equal. To ask the government to clamp down 
on uneven results is wrong; America is the 
land of opportunity, our government should ) 
step in only when it has been denied us.
money, directly or indirectly. What these 
regulations confuse is the distinction between 
equal opportunity and equal results. Discrimi
nation by sex, race, or handicap is already 
forbidden by the federal government. This 
new Act will create a new bureaucracy to 
monitor results and statistics of employment 
in places where federal government funds go. 
Equal opportunity and equal results are quite 
different things; the fact that 99 percent of 
plumbers are male doesnt say women dont 
have an equal chance at getting a plumbing 
job, it says few even consider it. How will the 
Act interpret these statistics? Is it worth addi
tional billions to find out when laws to provide 
equal opportunity already exist?
Everything, grocery stores that take food 
stamps, nursing homes that treat patients on 
Medicare, banks that deposit Social Security
lie hospitals. Even with a religious tenets 
provision in the Act, very few hospitals are 
actually controlled by a church, many are 
affiliated or backed by churches and run by lay 
boards.
The feminists are pushing the Act to imple
ment their own agenda. The Act would not 
only create the huge costs of millions of on-site 
compliance reviews but also create probably 
one of the largest new paper-pushing bureauc
racies with unprecedented costs and red tape. 
The feminists are doing this to give the federal 
government the power to judge discrimination 
by equality of results rather than equality of 
opportunity. They also would undoubtedly 
marvel in the ability to see Catholic hospitals 
required to perform abortions.
The anti-discrimination statutes that exist 
now are being used daily to rectify cases of disSil 5::0,a ol vw lSlSS2
by participating in an interview about your attitudes and be 
liefs (all information is strictly confidential)
You WILL NOT:
 appear on 60 Minutes
 be given sodium pentathol
 receive shock treatments
 be reported to the FBI
You WILL:
 have an exciting, 
stimulating 50 minute 
talk
 walk away with $10
Signup sheets are located outside the 
Social & Decision Sciences office, Porter 
Hall 208. Interviews begin March 1.
ii
j
'B

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 9
b1ggTOat 8SUgoAC defends clusters and employees
continued from page 6
Two convenient measures of effort are 
money and time. Out of ACs total annual 
budget of just over 1 million dollars, cluster 
activities account for about $350,000. Two 
full-time employees work exclusively on clusIr operation, and many others spend portions 
of their time in areas such as equipment repair, 
administrative support, and software manage
ment for clusters.
By far the biggest share of time spent in 
cluster operation is by our student employees. 
Collectively, they spend about 1,400 hours per 
week distributing software and answering 
user questions in 13 public clusters. This cor
ASP0EcUP CE L^ e2TTCgMS SM0TEbSSPo 100AEgB
M1CSTb CmS c2MySA Ee e2TTCgMS SM0TEbSSP gc 
all of AC. At least as much time is spent on
OT2PCSAAST1CSU 1OCg8gCgSP 1P Ec 1TT CmS ASPC Ee
ACs responsibilities.
The reason for this allocation of resources is 
simple. We take seriously our mission of pro
viding computing service to CMU under
graduate students. Unfortunately, resources 
fire always limited and, although we have ex
panded cluster resources regularly, we still 
find demand exceeding supply. Within the last 
year we have added a complete new facility in 
Baker Hall 140 that contains 60 additional 
computers, 20 of which are Andrew worksta
tions, and we still have problems with availa
bility of Andrew workstations.
tT2PCSA j1c1ISMScC 
$ fmS writer of CmS Student Union 1ACgOTS ASB
ferred to the management structure of the 
clusters. There has been some uncertainty in 
the full-time management of the clusters due 
to personnel changes over the last two years. 
We now have three people responsible for the 
management of the clusters.
But, beyond a hard working, conscientious 
full-time staff, an important reason why we 
jhope our service is responsive to student needs 
is that almost all of the work in the clusters is
performed by students. The great majority of 
our 200+ student employees are very consci
entious about providing service to their fellow 
students. AC students and full-time staff con
tinue to work on raising performance stan
dards and improving training to insure consis
tently high quality service.
The front line management of the clusters is 
also in the hands of students. Each cluster has 
a student head who, with one or two assistants, 
is responsible for the quality of the operation 
of his or her cluster. The heads supervise and 
train students who work in their clusters and 
give feedback to AC about needed improve
ments in facilities or procedures. Just making 
sure that theres a person at the desk when 
theres supposed to be is a big job, and the 
heads have the responsibility for coordinating 
shift changes and cancellations.
$ sC2UScC kSSUy1Or
Even though our student employees provide 
a lot of feedback about student computing 
needs, they cant represent the views of the 
student body as a whole. One of the most 
significant efforts currently underway in AC is 
the creation of a Student Advisory Committee 
for the department. Jean Dexheimer met re
cently with the student ombudsman as a first 
step toward the formation of this committee. It 
is hoped that the committee will be broadly 
representative of all students and their diverse 
interests and needs for computing facilities 
and services. The committee will meet regu
larly with Jean and other members of the AC 
staff. In addition, interested students and stu
dent groups are welcome to meet with Jean to 
discuss their questions and concerns. Make an 
appointment by calling Kathleen Czolba at 
x5630.
VS1c lSmSgMSA
lgASOCEAo vO1USMgO tEM02CgcI
tm2Or v2I2PCgcS
vPPgPC1cC lgASOCEAo vO1USMgO tEM02CgcI
Beauties and Beasts to Ski Calgary
ab v\at9f fd 3,F\\
Tartan Photography Editor
Calgary... A place of contrasts and con
tradictions. A flat plains city in western Al
berta, Canada, is hosting the 15th Olymp i c W i n t e r 
Games. Modem 
skyscrapers sub
stitute for jagged 
mountain peaks 
that are prevalent in most Olympiad vil
lages. Speed Skating, for the first time in 
Olympic history, will take place on the only 
indoor 400-meter ice track in the world. 
Two brand new 70 and 90 meter structural 
ski jumps were created. $25 million was 
poured into creating a new alpine ski moun
tain and resort called Nakiska that is lo
cated 55 miles southwest of Calgary even 
though larger facilities only 80 miles from 
Calgary, such as Lake Louise and Sunshine 
Village who have for many years hosted 
World Cup international ski races, would 
have sufficed.
But, of course, you knew all that.
How do Beauties and Beasts enter into 
this landscape of contrasts and contradic
tions? In the realm of alpine skiing, two 
new entities will be shown in this Olym
piad: one a beauty and one a beast.
The beauties are officially known as 
freestyle skiers on the international race 
circuit. They will, for the first time in 
Olympic history, thrill spectators with their 
daring, grace, and precision. Their regimen 
consists of aerial gymnastics, mogul run
ning, and ballet dancing. These beauties 
will be debuting at the games as a demon
stration event only. They will receive 
medals different from the established 
Olympiad medals.
While invented and perfected in the 
states, freestyle did not flourish as a profit
able sport until taken to Europe where it 
was universally accepted. Extensive televi
sion coverage at Calgary will provide the 
event with worldwide coverage and projec
tions are that it will be accepted as an 
Olympic event.
The beasts, on the other hand, will be 
prowling the slopes of Nakiska dressed as 
virtual gladiators. These are slalom skiers. 
Competitors ski over a pre-determined 
gated course, deftly and gracefully turning 
about each pole in an effort to achieve the 
fastest possible time down the course. A 
major change has affected this sport once 
revered as beautiful: the advent of the 
hinged slalom pole. Before, skiers would 
wend their way gently around each pole. 
Now the hinged gate has created a mon
strous ski event in which the participants 
literally crash through them, hitting each 
with the full front of their bodies. They 
have found this to be the most effective and 
fastest way to race such a course. This has 
led to the loss of the slim, sleek, and willowing physique. Its been replaced by the 
thick, muscular, and powerful body able to 
survive contact with the gate. The long 
flowing hair, leather mittens, and graceful 
ski garb once characteristic of slalom rac
ing has retired. Now we see racers wearing 
helmets, arm gauntlets running up to the el
bows with plastic shielding serving as pro
tective padding, screw on plastic plates 
covering legs, and protective chest plates 
for women.
With the introduction of freestyle, we will 
be thriiled with beautiful and graceful bal
TSC 1cU U1AgcI 1SAg1TP Ec PrggP .mgTS CmS 
charm of the slalom racer is slowly being 
destroyed as it becomes a contact sport. 
Calgary, as far as Olympic hosts go, will re
main a place of contrasts and contradic
tions.
All he wanted was an autographStudent Government President clarifies opinion on additional club funding
UgCEAK
I am writing this letter in response to the 
remarks that were attributed to me in last 
weeks article about Spirits funding. I did 
not express my personal opposition to 
funding Spirits speaker since the guest is 
unknown and could turn out to be the re
sponsibility of the Political Speakers Fo
rum Board. If I had said that, I would have 
vetoed the resolution. (As President of Stu
dent Government, I can pass or veto any 
motion Student Senate makes.)
What I did say was that I thought the
Senate was making a bad precedent by 
funding a speaker and not knowing who 
the speaker was. It didn't matter what or
ganization was asking for funding. I also 
said that if the speaker was one of a politi
cal nature, instead of going to Senate for 
funding they could get the Political 
Speakers Forum Board to fund the 
speaker. Thank you for clearing this up.
vcUAS. EygCPmSr
3ASPgUScC Ee sC2UScC >E8SAcMScC
ucU2PCAg1T j1c1ISMScC h6_
Good-bye to The White Rose
UgCEAK
The White Rose is more than a column of 
rational leftism. It has been a way of life. Pub
lished as a ritual forum of dissent in the Student 
Union and The Pitt News, the White Rose has 
been a mission. Like a clockwork train, zig
zagging in lurches and pitiful determination, 
The White Rose has existed with Carnegie 
Mellon University and the University of Pitts
burgh for four years. This was the duration of 
an academic boycott intended to sensitize 
students about politics. It was also an opportu
nity to mix a lot of metaphors, read poetry, 
contemplate and curse God, party, romanti
cize, and otherwise flagrantly violate the bu
reaucratic law of ennui.
During this four year period, 1 never took 
acid, smoked very little pot, drank a lot of beer, 
crashed on peoples couches, toured America 
by van with the Student Union paper, helped 
build the shanty, corresponded with Peter 
f Gabriel and his elite fan club, wrote songs,
read all of Anne Sextons work, was insulted 
by and reciprocally offended a large number of 
dear hearts and idiots who pass for students in 
this lovely and conteipptible jungle. And Im 
none the worse for having done so.
Best of all, The White Rose had its say. 
Named after a group formed by the students of 
Munich who opposed National Socialism in 
1943 and were hanged, this column has openly 
despised Reaganism. Let us hope the night
mare of his tyranny will someday be only a 
whisper of grief in the back rooms of history.
The zigzagging train that I've called The 
White Rose was political and thus belongs to 
the abyss. Ill comfort myself with the women 
and booze of Chiefs Tavern, as usual, when 
Im not scrawling the graffiti of doubt on the 
walls of the subways. Ah, James, I will say to 
a Budweiser, your dreams have not deserted.
V1MSP tA1Ab
UgCEAK
My thanks to Dean Bailey, the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration, and all 
those who made possible Peter Ueberroth's 
presentation in the Benjamin F. Fairless 
Memorial Lecture Series. I admired Mr. 
Ueberroth's fine work during the Los Angeles 
Olympics, and was gratified to find him for all 
his feats a down-to-earth man able to influence 
others without preaching or scolding. The 
evening of February 15 was an entertaining 
and refreshing one.
There was that evening, however, one un
pleasant episode I feel I must discuss. As Mr. 
Ueberroth talked to reporters after the lecture, 
about five of us from the audience stood out
side the roped-off area with programs for him 
to sign. A CMU security guard asked us why 
we were there. Told we were waiting for auto
graphs, she replied in a tone reminiscent of my 
kindergarten days, Oh, no, therell be none of 
that. Pressed, she said that Mr. Ueberroth was 
on a limited time schedule. We remained, and 
she repeated there would be no autographs. 
The press session broke up, and the security 
guards moved to keep us away from Mr. 
Ueberroth. At that moment a brave soul 
quickly asked Mr. Ueberroth to sign his pro
gram. Sure. As far as I know, everybody got 
autographs. Speaking to another guard later, I 
learned Security had been instructed not to 
allow autographs.
Perhaps the saying is true that anyone who 
has a hero diminished himself. The Robin 
Leach cohort certainly has gone overboard in 
celebrity veneration. Yet is it unreasonable to 
allow an admiring listener a small tangible 
reminder of hearing, maybe shaking hands 
with a celebrity who doesn t mind the contact? 
Security was not instructed to keep :l:v
away from Mr. Ueberroth. True, individual 
students cannot usually boost CMU's PR until 
they leave and get on L A. Law, on the other 
hand, if they pay to attend the lecture-sponsor
ing university, should this not have been taken 
into account?
May Carnegie Mellon continue to have lec
tures of the caliber of Peter Ueberroth, 
Douglas Fraser, and Frank Zappa. But please, 
powers that be, let Mother Theresa decide 
whether or not she wants to sign autographs.
T. 1cUSA9SbUSc 
sScgEAo cITgPm
Senator comments 
on extra money for 
Spirits speaker
UgCEAK
I would certainly like to clarify and extend 
the remarks you attributed to me in your last 
issue. I have no problem with organizations 
asking for additional funds during the 
semester. Indeed, much of the business 
handled in the Funding and Recognition 
Committee deals with such special alloca
tions. I am concerned however when the 
mechanisms and procedures set up to insure 
that Student Activities fee money is spent 
properly are short-circuited. The precedent of 
making irregular or hurried last minute alloca
tions with insufficient information is one that 
can only eventually lead to trouble.
gU1T ld >A120SA1 
sC2UScC sSc1CS 
sScgEAo t

---------------------------------------------------

Features
The Tartan 1988-89 H
E2Ug gS ,T IMATOT gAT 28g1SU 1av3
On-campus housing offers many options
bathroom with the rest of their floor and are not 
permitted to cook in their rooms, on-campus 
apartments are also an option. E-Tower Apart
ments offer privacy, accompanied with the 
benefits of living in Morewood. They are 
located on the ground level of  guess where
 E-Tower. Doherty Apartments, located on 
Forbes Avenue, also offer the independence of 
apartment living, but, according to a source, 
are in need of remodeling. Woodlawn Apart
ments are at the intersection of Margaret 
Morrison and Forbes, along with Roselawn 
Terrace and Margaret Morrison Apartments. 
There is a laundry complex here, as well as a 
co-op store, the Caber Club nautilus center, a 
computer cluster, and a lounge.
If you want to live on-campus with a group of 
friends, Special Interest Houses are a choice. 
Needing both permission and at least five 
occupants, the houses can be co-ed, and have 
their own kitchen and bath. With six or more 
students living there, a house runs about 
$2,340 for the academic year. With five occu
pants, it costs about $2,860.
As most college students know, facilities are 
not the only factor to consider when determin
ing where to live. There is also the size and the 
classification of the room to look at. The only 
differences between prime and standard 
rooms are the cost, size, and access to a bath
room. Prime rooms are larger and guarantee at 
least a semi-private bathroom.
There are a lot of benefits to living oncampus. Says one student, Its nice to be able 
to run home between classes if you forget 
something. There is also freedom from the 
hassle of planning around shuttle or escort 
services, the availability of the cafeterias or 
offices and the convenience of being nearby 
for all those awesome CMU social events. Oncampus housing: the options are many, the 
location favorable...and the cockroaches 
friendly.
Donncr Hall, located at the base of the Hill, is the home of many freshmen.
Morewood Gardens seen from across Forbes Ave
*>
Off-campus a]
By JOEY HEAFITZ &
BARBARA McQUAIN
Special to the Tartan
When most students hear the words Tudor, 
Carol, Shirley, Hampshire, and Clyde Street 
the first thought which pops into their heads is^ 
out in the boonies. Why do students prefer 
on-campus living instead of off-campus? 
Convenience. This convenience allows them 
to sleep late and avoid the long trek to campus. 
But off-campus living also provides advan
tages that other housing cant.
Many underclassmen are under the false im
pression that off-campus living is reserved for 
the upperclassmen. The truth of the matter is Q 
that many freshmen live off-campus due to 
personal preferences and a shortage of oncampus housing.
One of the most desirable things about offcampus living is the spacious living quarters. 
Each off-campus room has a bedroom, bath
room and kitchen. Greater space allows more 
room to relax, socialize and party. Another big 
asset to off-campus living is its proximity lo3, 
restaurants, nightclubs, bars and stores.
Off-campus housing is in the Oakland/ 
Shadyside Area (O.S.A.). It is divided into 
three sections: Centre Ave. (Tudor, Carol, 
Hampshire), Clyde Street (601, 630 and Marybelle) and Dithridge (Shirley). Of the three 
areas Clyde Street is the closest to campus. 
Presently it is in the process of being gradually 
phased out. Shirley is the closest to Oakland. It ^ 
is only a few short blocks away from Pitt,
S.E.I. and Mellon Institute. Tudor, Carol and 
Shirley are located in the Shadyside area, in 
the middle of a fast food jungle (Dairy Queen, 
Burger King, Rax, Ritzys, and Kentucky 
Fried Chicken) and near Walnut Street shop
ping, Giant Eagle and 24- hour convenience 
stores.
familiar faces. Resident Rachel Batch says, 
Having the cafeteria there, that's a big plus. I 
think its probably better than the other
dorms.
Located beside Morewood is Mudge House, 
a converted mansion. It is also co-ed and offers 
the basic laundry/lounge facilities of most 
residence halls. Despite its position on the 
edge of campus, it is sometimes the very center 
of things. Many speakers, such as Leo Buscaglia, or programs for the students take place 
here. It is also near the fraternity quadrangle 
which means its inhabitants can be victim to 
loud noise, like their Morewood neighbors. I 
must admit to hearing stories of gigantic cock
roaches roaming the building.
Fortunately, I havent seen large bugs in 
Donner Hall, the place I call home. Co-ed by 
wings and floors, Donner offers a laundry 
room, kitchen, reading room, TV lounge, and 
a rec room of sorts in the basement. It is also 
the home of the post office boxes for all the 
Hill dorms. The rooms are large and comfort
able, compared to most, and it is only a few 
minutes walk from the academic buildings. 
Being not without its faults, it probably has the 
ugliest exterior of all the residence halls, and 
can also get very hot. Freshman resident Lau
rie Schneider agrees, The heating stinks.
Across the street from Donner are Scobell, 
Hamerschlag, Welch, Henderson, McGill, 
and Boss. Welch and Henderson are co-ed and 
offer prime rooms to their residents. The rest 
are male dorms, each with its redeeming char
acteristic. Scobell and Hamerschlag have 
laundry rooms, and Schlag also has a nice 
lounge. The rooms in both, however, are very 
cramped. Boss and McGill do not have laun
dry facilities, but, according to Tom Davis, 
Everything in there is relatively new and in 
pretty good condition. We have computers 
downstairs in the basement, and printers, too.
Because most dormitory students share a
By DARLENE FOZARD
Tartan Staffer iter
When I was little, 1 used to play dorm 
with my best friend Gretchen. We would 
pretend we were college roommates, fan
tasizing about the then-considered glam
orous life of higher education. I knew all 
along I wanted to live in a dormitory. It is 
so...so all-American  kind of like 
Gidget Goes To College. Despite the hor
ror stories that circulate about college 
housing. I, as well as my roommate, love 
it and plan on sticking with both next year. 
My job this week is to give you informa
tion you might need to decide where, if not 
with whom, you'll live next year.
Campus residence halls fall easily into a
;,cO1M02P mE2PgcIK CmS 
E0CgEcP 1AS M1cbo CmS TEO1B
CgEc e18EA1yTSddd7
geographical division: Morewood and the 
Hill. Morewood includes both Mudge 
House and Morewood itself, as well as ETower and Doherty Apartments. The Hill 
encompasses Donner, Scobell, Boss, 
McGill, Welch, Henderson, and Hamer
schlag, along with Woodlawn, Margaret 
Morrison Apartments, Roselawn Terrace, 
and Special Interest Houses.
Morewood is the largest dormitory, and 
has the most facilities available to its resi
dents. Aside from the standard laundry 
room, it offers numerous lounges on each 
floor and tower, a library, a computer 
room, a reading room, a rec room equipped 
with ping-pong and pool tables, board 
games, a stereo, piano, very nice assistants, 
and even its own eating facilities. It is co
ed, and the hallways are always full of

---------------------------------------------------

1
February 23,1988The TartanPage II

lousing Guide Arrives
ug9a USg gSS T2OCR gSooo
Start looking for off-campus housing
v8Sc2Sd
photo by Howdy Pierce
ab V,9R :/uvt,3,n\,s
Tartan Staffwriter
If youre like most people, youre probably 
beginning to think about where you want to live 
next semester, especially if you live in Schlag. 
Morewood has mostiikely crossed your mind, 
as well as Mudge or any of the more liveable 
dorms. But have you considered your other 
option, living off-campus? A good portion of 
the CMU student body has found housing out
side of the universitys domain in such places as 
Shadyside, Squirrel Hill, Oakland, and East 
Liberty. Shadyside and Squirrel Hill are the 
more popular places, for they have on average 
nicer apartments and are in closer proximity to 
the campus. Oakland and East Liberty are not to 
be ignored, but they are noisier (not conducive to 
studying) and have higher rates of crime.
There are a number of things to contend with, 
though, before you decide on an off-campus 
apartment. First of all, finding a suitable one 
might be a bit of a buzzkill. There are a number 
of dives and holes in the wall out there that you 
wouldnt even consider letting your dog live in. 
Next, even if you do find one you like, you might 
find that the landlord will not be willing to rent 
it to you if youre an undergrad. Some landlords 
prefer graduate students because they dont 
party and they dont wreck things. Apartments
jnartmpntc* Theyre not just for ipcll UllCiiLZ). upperclassmen
Each building is composed of approximately 
40 students representing all academic years 
and majors. This small number allows every
one to get to know everyone else. Group ac
tivities are frequent events and as a result there 
\r strong sense of unity among the residents 
of these off-campus buildings. In the past there 
have been building barbecues, happy hours,
trips and outings.
Shuttle Bus service to these off-campus 
apartments leaves Skibo every half hour and 
runs from six in the morning until midnight. 
The first stop is Clyde Street; then Shirley, 
then Hampshire/Tudor/Carol. Students who 
dont feel like riding the shuttle are a ten to 
fifteen minute walk away from campus.
SM gS KC2k gAT OSSe nO2M 02eTooo
Room draw to begin March 7
By TERENCE SPIES
Tartan Staffer iter
The Carnegie Mellon Housing Offices room reservation process starts on March 7. 
The event, otherwise known as room draw, occurs in two phases.
First, on March 7, 8, or 9th, depending on your year, you draw a number or retain the 
room you have now.
Second, on March 14,15, or 16th, again depending on year, you choose rooms in order 
of the numbers picked in the first phase.
There are several ways to improve your chances of getting a good room. Within a group 
^ friends, the one with the lower number can reserve a room and specify the other people 
as roommates. However, if you reserve a room, you cannot back out if your friend gets 
something better.
Last year the housing office posted a computer file with the available rooms updated 
frequently. At least one hopeful resident used this tool to keep tabs on a room. This aid 
may not help you get a room, but it is a good indicator of what to expect when your time 
to choose comes.
Another more surreptitious method of getting a good room is to find a good room full 
of graduating seniors, and officially transfer rooms with one of them. You can then keep 
^ the room that might have otherwise been lost in earlier room picks. This technique is legal 
as long as the people are willing to undergo the inconvenience of moving. Scott Kane, 
area coordinator for the Oakland/Shadyside area, has caught one person trying to beat the 
system by transferring rooms without moving.
The ultimate help in successfully drawing a room is of course, luck and sensible choice 
of rooms. With some common sense  and a reading of the magic orange pamphlet  
you should be able to keep yourself out of the Schlag.
also have year leases, unlike the university 
housing, which means you would have to 
pay through the summer. Getting to school 
might also present a problem. Each place 
mentioned is at least a twenty-minute walk
;dddegcUgcI 1 P2gC1yTS 101ACB
MScC MgImC yS 1 ygC Ee 1 
y2GGrgTTd7
to campus, although, the CMU shuttle has a 
fairly large route and runs throughout the 
day. For more information concerning this, 
contact the information desk in Skibo. Dont 
let all of this discourage you. They are not 
really major obstacles, and in the long run 
you may be happy you endured them.
Single bedroom apartments run anywhere 
from $285 to $350 a month. Most utilities are 
usually included, except possibly for elec
tricity. This, however, may be subject to 
change depending on the area or the land
lord. Single bedroom apartments are usually 
spacious enough for two people, and you can 
split the cost in half. This way the cost will be 
comparable to university housing. Two 
bedroom apartments run upwards of $500 a 
month, though this may fluctuate with the
area also. Utility policies are the same as 
those for single bedroom apartments.
If you choose to live off-campus, you 
will obviously not have access to the uni
versity dining service at all times of the 
day. But dont worry, there are supermar
kets in each area. In Shadyside are the 
Shadyside and South Aiken markets. 
While both are close by, they are a little 
expensive for the average college 
students budget. Your best bet would be 
to make the journey to the Food Gallery. 
East Liberty is right next to Shadyside and 
has the same stores available. In Oakland 
and Squirrel Hill, your best bet is the 
Giant Eagle, though there are a lot of fast 
food places around also. The university, 
however, offers different types of meal 
plans. You might want to get something 
like a five meal contract and eat lunch at 
school.
The most important thing to remember 
is not to rely solely on newspaper ads. 
Many landlords are too cheap to adver
tise. The best approach is to keep your 
eyes open for vacancy signs in the area. 
You might check the campus bulletin 
boards too. Also, start looking early. 
Theres no better time than the present.
Housing Prices 88-89
Dormitories
Standard Quad.........
Prime Quad...............
Standard Triple........
Prime Triple..............
Standard Double......
Prime Double............
Standard Single .......
.$1,980.... $2,160------$2,180___$2360....... $2,440........$2,660 .......$2,830Prime Single...............................................................................$3,070Apartment Buildings
Margaret Morrison Apartments2 bedrooms  4 occupants...............................................................$3,180Special Interest House.......................................................................$2,940
Woodlawn Apartments1 bedroom  3 occupants....................................................................$2,8202 bedrooms  4 occupants ............ ............ ......................................................... ..........$3,180
Doherty ApartmentsEfficiency  2 occupants.....................................................................$3,0601 bedroom  3 occupants ............................................................... $2,8201 bedroom  4 occupants... ..............................  ...:......................$2,3102 bedrooms  5 occupants ....................................................................$2,360
E-Tower ApartmentsEfficiency  3 occupants................................................................$2,6801 bedroom  3 occupants .............................................................$2,820
Shirley ApartmentsEfficiency  2 occupants....................................................................$2,1101 bedroom  3 occupants .................................................................$2,210
Hampshire HailStudio  1 occupant.........................................................................$2,930Efficiency  2 occupants...............................................................$2,1101 bedroom  2 occupants.................................................................$2,780
Tudor HallEfficiency  2 occupants................................_............................. $2,2301 bedroom  2 occupants................................................................ $2,4601 bedroom  3 occupants................................................................. $2.110
Carol ApartmentsI bedroom  2 occupants.................................................................$2,460
Marybelle ApartmentsEfficiency  2 occupants .....................................................................$2,650
5th Ave ApartmentsEfficiency  2 occupants..................................................................$2,5701 bedroom  2 occupants...................................................................$2,7802 bedrooms  3 occupants...............................................................$2,8502 bedrooms  2 occupants..............;.................................................$3,100
6J0 Clyde Street1 bedroom  3 occupants.....................................................................$2,4702 bedrooms  3 occupants........................................ .......................  $2,850Houses5 occupants .............................................................................$2,8606 or more occupants  ................... ..................... ... ................ .......$2,340

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 23,1988
Specs defines cafeteria style etiquette
Dear Specs,
Table manners here at Carnegie Mellon are 
different than the ones we use at my home. Im 
lost trying to figure out right and wrong. Could 
you give me a few tips?
19 meals a week
Dear 19,
Anxieties about conduct during meals are 
common. There have been numerous inquiries 
regarding what is appropriate in the variety of 
situations Carnegie Mellon Dining Service 
presents. Most of us don't grow up eating 
cafeteria style," so mealtime often seems
novel. The old rule, behave as you would at 
home," is out of date. Todays student needs a 
new set of guidelines.
Salads Plus is perhaps the most casual eat
ing place on campus. While the picnic-like at
mosphere may not resemble Dejeuner Sur 
L' Her be, it does necessitate a certain degree 
of composure. Plastic utensils are still convey
ors of food from plate to mouth. Do not fling 
them about, wave them in the air, or use them 
for something other than their intended pur
poses. If you drop your fork, excuse yourself 
and get a new one. Don  t turn lunch into a res
urrection of paleolithic snacking by using 
your fingers.
Kiltie table manners are more complex. It 
seems that the additional freedom of choice
brings out the sins of many. People appear 
gluttonous at times, gathering more food than 
they could possibly consume. Greed mars the 
pleasant atmosphere at the Beverage Bar as 
individuals place glass after glass on their 
trays. Medical reasons (e.g. diabetes) are 
really the only substantial excuses for 11-13 
juices.
Again the fork is not to be waved, and the 
mouth is to be kept shut while chewing. Acqui
sition of the salt is not an activity requiring a 
100-meter dash of the arm. Do not covet your 
neighbor's entree, relieving him/her of some 
of it by spearing pieces and dragging them 
back to your tray.
It is also not appropriate to mix and match 
courses when eating with others. If you must 
make a round robin (a bite of dessert, entree, 
some jello, then back to lima beans etc.) sit by 
yourself. Don t jeopardize your friendships by 
forcing your peers to leave the table in diges
tive distress.
Behavior at M orewood is perhaps the easiest 
to master. Take a tray, place your desired 
gastronomical delights upon it and sit down at 
a table.
Occasionally this simplicity is complicated 
by the arrival of an aerobics class. Keep a level 
head. When certain patrons appear in varying 
degrees of perspiration, bearing towels, or 
smelling a bit different than usual, remain 
calm. Remember, you are not at home. These 
athletes are not your siblings and acknowl
edging the differences betw een you is rude. Do 
not stare or appear shocked. Simply pretend 
your dinner companions are appropriately 
dressed or imagine you are eating in a sauna.
iSpecs
Dear Specs,
Why do so many people eat desserts and fat
88.3 FM STEREO
Back by popular demand!
A Question and Answer session with
Carnegie Mellon President 
Richard Cyert
Call in with your questions, concerns and comments about the past, present and future of Carnegie Mellon.
Wednesday, March 2nd 
8:30 pm
WRCT PHONE LINES
x2883 Th eartnCgi
Funded By Your Student Activities Fee
tening foods but drink diet sodas? Is it rude if 
I suggest to buy someone a low calorie drink? 
Whats the deal?
Curious
Dear Curious,
You are the third person to ask that famous 
question: Why accompany a dessert with a diet 
drink? Obviously someone who eats sweets 
doesn't care about counting calories, or they 
wouldn  t eat them at all. Many people feel that 
the robust and hearty flavor of a Diet Cola 
compliments a rich dessert. Then again, there 
are those who prefer a more delicate bouquet 
of a lemon-lime carbonated diet drink with a 
cholesterol-laden meal. These people are con
noisseurs of beverages and they know that NutraSweet can be a compliment to the palette.
Be careful when recommending a low calo
rie drink. There are countless varieties and 
flavors to remember. If you suggest the wrong 
one you will be committing a faux pas that will 
embarrass you and tempt your date to snicker. 
Choosing between a Burgundy and Bordeaux 
is easier than ordering the right soda. Only 
experience can give you the knowledge of what 
is de rigeur.
Specs
$S RS. A2yT 2 d.Tag1SU 
bSO fKT8av
FmSCmSA bE2hAS .EcUSAgcI 1yE2C 
e1PmgEco bE2A TE8S TgeSo EA IScSA1T 
O1M02P m100ScgcIPo s0SOP O1c mST0d 
s2yMgC W2SPCgEcP CE vPr s0SOPo OE 
fmS f1AC1co srgyE aE Dd cCAgSP 
cSSU cEC yS PgIcSUo y2C 0TS1PS rSS0 
hSM OTS1cd
Young marks 40 
years at CMU
ab 9,Rlv \vRl/
Tartan Staffwriter
Wherever you go, there will always be 
somebody who has spent so much time 
and energy that he or she has become an 
integral part of the place. Doctor Hugh 
Young of CMUs Physics Department 
is certainly one of those people. Stu
dents have asked him to autograph their 
copies of University Physics, the text
book he co-authors. Two years ago a 
cartoon in the Tartan showed a charac
ter floating on air because he had Pro
fessor Youngs physics class. This fall 
will mark 40 years that Professor 
Young has been a part of the Carnegie 
Mellon community, both as a student 
and as a faculty member.
Hugh Young originally came to Car
negie Tech as a prospective chemistry 
major in 1948, but he changed his 
choice of major when he discovered 
that his freshman physics classes fired 
him up more than freshman chemistry 
classes. College was a tremendous 
time of discovery for me because I came 
from a small town in northern Iowa. My 
high school graduating class had 62 
students in it, and the outlook was pretty 
provincial. When I came to CMU as a 
freshman, I was really the little kid right 
off the farm, and discovering how much 
there was to be learned was just a tre
mendous feeling. I wanted to learn 
everything. I wanted to take all the continued on page 14
o
SUMMER PLANS?
The Housing Office is looking 
for students interested in 
working full-time over the 
coming Summer.
We currently have positions 
available for Office Assistants 
and Facilities Crew Assistants.
To learn more about these 
positions, please contact the 
Housing Office (x2139).
Applications are currently 
available in the Housing Office.
All applicants must be 
work-study eligible and must 
submit an application to the 
Housing Office by Friday, 
March 4th.
o
o

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 13
Capn Crunch shanghaied
The world is ready to learn a terrifying secret. 
Capn Crunch  that beloved navigator of the 
milky seas of breakfast cereal  that com
manding officer to the Crunch Berry Beast  
that triumphant foe of the Sog Monster  our 
favorite naval herois an imposter. Many of 
(fyou, Im sure, find this claim unbelievable, but 
it is true. Allow me to present the evidence.
In 1985, Capn Crunchs traditionally smil
ing countenance disappeared from boxes of 
Capn Crunch, Choco Crunch, Peanut Butter 
Crunch and Crunch Berries cereals. He was 
replaced by a large white Capn-Crunchshaped silhouette with a big blue questn mark 
in the middle. It was the Find the Capn 
(^contest. Each box of cereal contained a clue of 
some sort, such as Hes underground, or 
Hes on a bender. By assembling the clues
$60 Seconds
with Bob Glickstein
from three or four boxes, one could send in 
ones guess and Find the Capn and possibly 
win a reward.
While the rest of the world happily presumed 
that Capn Crunch had voluntarily and temporarily stepped aside to help his friends at the 
Quaker cereal company, I wondered. While 
everyone imagined that the Capn was taking 
a well-deserved siesta on some sunny South 
Pacific beach, I grew anxious, suspicious. 
Hes been gone too long, I thought. The Capn 
would never abandn his cereal for so many 
months. Evn if it was as a favor to Quaker, to 
whom he is as loyal as any good naval officer 
is to his country, Capn Crunchs stronger loy
alty is to his ship (in this case, his boxes of 
cereal).
Several months after disappearing, and only 
days before I would have perished in an anx
ious apoplectic fit wondering about his where
abouts, Capn Crunch reappeared on boxes of 
Capn Crunch, Choco Crunch, Peanut Butter 
Crunch and Crunch Berries cereals. The 
~ world, which by this time had itself begun to 
wonder whether foul play was involved in the 
disappearance of the Capn, heaved a collec
tive sigh of relief (causing the Asian monsoon 
seasn to come three months early).
And then, one morning while conversing 
with the Capn over breakfast, I brought up the 
subject of numismatics, which months earlier 
had been a fascinating subject to both myself 
^ and the Capn, and which had been the topic of 
many long and satisfying discussns between 
us. On this particular day, much to my aston
ishment, the Capn didnt know the first thing 
about numismatics! When I tried to refresh his 
memory, he tried to change the subject to the 
world economy. When I inquired if something 
was wrong, all the Capn said was Look 
laddie, dont ybe askin me no questions 
yshouldnt or Ill have you keelhauled and Ill 
serve ytthe sharks for breakfast.
That didnt sound like the pleasant, easygo
ing Capn Crunch I knew and admired. Cer
tainly, the real Capn would never say such a 
thing about breakfast, which he regarded as a 
sacred occasn and as anything but a word to 
use in hostile threats. My old suspicn and 
anxiety returned. I quickly and politely termi
nated the conversat'n and began my
investigatn.
Almost immediately I turned up a clue which 
was so obvious that I was amazed that neither 
I nor anyone else had noticed it right when the 
Capn reappeared. The man now on the boxes 
of Capn Crunch, Choco Crunch, Peanut 
Butter Crunch and Crunch Berries cereals 
looks different than the real Capn Crunch. 
For one thing, the imposters eyebrows are on 
his hat, and they are bean-shaped instead of 
crescent-shaped. Also, the imposter has blue 
eyes, whereas the real Capns eyes have no 
color at all. The imposters nose is a simple 
circle, while Capn Crunch has a nose-shaped 
nose. His mustache appears round and textured and soft, whereas Capn Crunchs mus
tache is flat and seems sharp. Finally, the 
imposters epaulets, stripes and hat differ from 
the Capns. I thought, if this was some kind of 
hoax to dupe the world into believing that this 
imposter was the real Capn, it was a very 
sloppy one indeed.
Yet it seemed to be working. There had been 
no news item about the replacement of one 
Capn with another. I had to assume that the 
intentions behind the replacement were sinis
ter. But more than that, I had to rescue the 
beloved Capn Crunch from the clutches of 
whatever dark forces now held him.
I took the Tartn jet to Chicago and inter
viewed the Quaker Companys Vice President 
in Charge of Running Contests on Boxes of 
Cereal. He told me that the Find the Capn 
contest hadn't been his idea. He had been out 
sick, and when he returned, his assistant had 
already begun the contest. When asked why, 
the assistant said that the President of Quaker 
had spokn to him personally to order the 
coatest. I grilled the assistant and learned that 
the President had been very insistent about a 
contest in which the Capn would be missing 
from the box for at least three months. I asked 
the assistant if he spoke to the President face to 
face or over the phone. He said it was a phone 
call, and that he recalled the Presidents voice 
being hoarse and scratchy, as if he too had the 
flu that the Vice President had.
It was now clear that the phone call did not 
come from the President of Quaker, but rather 
from some evil-minded individual who had 
disguised his voice to fool the assistant. I 
flashed my Tartn Press card at the Chicago 
phone company and with their help I tracked 
down all the calls made to the assistant that 
day. All but one were made from inside the 
Quaker complex. The other one was made in 
Joliet, Illinois.
I tracked down the address in a slummy 
sectn of Joliet and entered a dark, poorlymaintained building. Sensing the presence of 
the Capn, I drew out a handful of Capn 
Crunch cereal from a special pouch and ate it. 
The thunderous sounds of the crunchy cereal 
helped the Capn, who was bound and gagged 
two floors above me, to break free of his 
restraints and burst from the locked room 
where he was being held as a prisoner. Fearful 
for our lives, we fled the building immedi
ately.
Obviously, the past twenty-eight months of 
abductn and confinement have been too much 
for poor Capn Crunch. All hes done during 
the time that I have sheltered him in my apart
ment is to stare at the imposter on a box of 
Peanut Butter Crunch while sitting on the floor 
in a comer, rocking back and forth and mutter
ing over and over, Kids, get a free Capn 
Crunch submarine in every box! Kids, get a 
free Capn Crunch submarine in every box! I 
have tried to enlist the authorities in investigat
ing this matter, but the only conclusn that they 
could draw from my story and the costumed 
catatonic clown in the comer is that were both 
mad. I am therefore left to resolve the situatn 
myself, which is going to be very difficult 
considering that Capn Crunchs new pasttime 
is to eat a bowl of the imposters cereal and 
then throw it up.
SPIRIT celebrates Black Month
ab vRf9,R/ Rns
Special to the Tartan
February is Black History Month. In 
honor thereof, SPIRIT Organization is 
holding its first annual Black Month Cele
bration. The theme of the month is The 
Struggle Continues. Here is an overview 
of the months events.
Black month kicked off with Bobby 
Seale Reflects. Seale, activist and founder 
of the Black Panthers, spoke on Saturday,
;FS 1C s3uuf .E2TU TgrS 
CE Cm1cr 1TT CmEPS .mE 02C 
CmSgA CgMS 1cU SeeEAC gcCE 
M1rgcI E2A egAPC aT1Or 
jEcCm 1 P2OOSPPd7
January 30 to a packed Ballroom. The 
speaker related in depth his own history, the 
beginning of the Black Panthers, and ra
cism in America.
The next event, on February 4, was a trip 
through the Smithsonian exhibit From 
Field To Factory. The exhibit was on 
display in Hunt Library from January 9 to 
February 7. Leading the tour was Professor 
Joe Trotter. The exhibit featured informa
tion, documents, and actual pictures of the 
Blacks migration from the rural South to 
the industrial North. The exhibit was 
brought to the campus by a joint project of 
the University Libraries and the Depart
ment of History.
How We Made It This Far was the title
of the next event. Mr. Bob Gore, former as
sistant director of CORE, and Mrs. Adlai 
Sanford, member of the New York State 
Board Of Regents and teaching fellow at 
Harvard University, held a Black History 
workshop on February 14 in the Wherrett 
room. The topic of the conversation was the 
civil rights movement and the role of Black 
college students in the community.
SPIRIT Genesis/SPIRIT Today was a 
luncheon with Mr. Kofi Scott, founder of 
Spirit, held in the Faculty Dining Room on 
February 21. As the title suggests, there 
was a comparison between the SPIRIT of 
yesterday, and the SPIRIT of today.
The Roots Of The Struggle, which is 
tomorrow, February 24, will be a seminar 
with Jim Anderson, Professor of Psychol
ogy of Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 
Dr. Anderson will be speaking on Black 
culture, past and present. I heard him speak 
here during the summer, and recommend 
that everyone come to hear him. The semi
nar will be held in Margaret Morrison 
Room 408 at 6:00 pm.
Wrapping up Black Month on campus 
will be Celebrating Our Heritage, a party 
co-sponsored by SPIRIT and the Black 
Graduate Student Organization. It will be 
held on Friday, February 26. It promises to 
be a night of fun.
We at SPIRIT would like to thank all 
those who put their time and effort into 
making our first Black Month a success. 
We would also like to thank those who 
supported our efforts by attending these 
functions, and hope that they continue to do 
so in the future.
Pu/Um Mania
WzdneAday Mauch 2, 79SS
7-30pm
VWL Faculty CLub 
4010 01 Henna. Stsie&t
$
'Q
&ijjjl'' T/ie Hot Sound 
"V.J." Stuve. Lzbov-tz
For more information
621-8875
Face Painting Israeli Dancing
Magilla Reading Hamantashen
Costume Contest
co-sponsored by B'nai B'rlch Hillel andUnited Jewish Federation Campaign Connection

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanFebruary 23,1988
*fhe Spring 88 series of4
Question of Academics m CITY LIGHTS I I tory of Architecture at
will be a duai workshop to M.I.T.. will speak oo'lhe
accommodate ^l$ctic Three Views of Le Corschedule-. The series busier"at 8 pm in the Hunt
et'iisiNis ot 2 sections of 7 Pnf1 ^Bj Multi-Purpose Room.
\\eekl> sessions each. Friday. February 26:
H ^kl  Images.
u ; i pi U iekle\. w ill hold a reeepcommence at 11:0G am on tikm from 6-8 pm for th.
Saturday, February 27. through Saturday. 10 am to 4 Tuesday, February "^ : exhibition 250 Years of
The sessions are approx. 1 pm, February 14-26 in the The University of Pittsburgh Japanese Printmaking
1/2 hour each, with a first Mellon galleries. Symphony Orchestra will (1730-1900). For more
extended session of 2 The UP Gallery, 3816 present a concert featuring info, call 741-3036.
hours. Registration cards Forbes Avenue, will present Pittsburgh-born violinist A SPIRIT and BGSO
for A Question of an exhibition of Diane Todd Phillips at 8:30 pm in party, Celebrating our
Academics are available at Samuels' sculpture from FebWilliam Pitt Union Ballroom, Heritage." Time and place
Skibo Information Desk, ruary 20 to March 20. The Wednesday, February 24: to be announced.
The deadline for gallery is open Tuesday to Right-Brain People in a Saturday, February 27 ;
registration is today. There Saturday 10 am-4 pm and Left-Brain World, a lecture/ The Chautaqua Instituis no charge. For moie Sunday 2-5 pm. discussion by LaDonna tion will audition ballet
information, contact Mark Highway 66 and Other Bates, will be held at the students ( of ages 15-20 )
Schmick at x5446. Views, a photography series Center for Human Developfor admittance to the 1988
Citiparks will sponsor a by Anne Fishbein, shows Feb ment, 401 Shady Avenue at 8 summer study program at
performance of William 18-March 22 in the Carnegie pm. The fee for the lecture is Chautaqua's School of
Anku and the African Mellon Hewlett Gallery in the $6. For reservations call 361- Dance. For info,call (716)
Drum Ensemble and Fine Arts Building. 1400. For info, call 782-0428. 357-6234.
Temujin Ekunfeo the The Community College of Roots of the Struggle, a Wednesday, March "K
Storyteller in Allegheny County Gospel seminar by Jim Anderson, Peace Links will sponsor
conjunction with Black Ensemble will present a three Professor of Psychology at a program Poetry is a
History Month. The day Gospel Music/Chorale Indiana University of PennWeapon Loaded with the
performance runs from Workshop conducted by resylvania will be sponsored by Future, featuring speaker
7:00 to 8:30, February 23, nowned Gospel artist Thomas Spirit at MM 408 at 6 pm. Sam Hazo, Poet and Diat the Northview Heights Whitfield on February 25,26, Howard Saalman, Andrew rector of the International
Recreation Center. For and 27. The workshop culmiMellon Professor of ArchiPoetry Forum, from noon
more info, call 255-8975. nates with a concert by Mr. tecture, will speak on Barbato 1:00 pm at the DownCarlow College will presWhitfield and the workshop dovi ChapelBarabdovi town YMCA, 305 Wood
ent an exhibition of two choir on February 27 at 7:00 Dowries at noon in CFA Street, Room 414. Free.
Pittsburgh artists Beth pmattheNorthsideChurchof 206. Call x2353 for info. For infocali 471-0302.
Kukcka and Kathleen God in Christ. For more info, Thursday, February "^ : Compiled by
Zimbickt Tuesday call Fran Howse at 237-2643. Francesco Passanti, AssisTERENCE SPIES
Hugh is Young at heart
continued from page 12
courses there were. During his years as an undergraduate. 
Young overloaded every semester except his freshman year, 
when it was forbidden under University policy. He was also in
volved with a wide variety of extra-curricular activities during 
that period. He was a member of the debating team, played 
Bagpipes in the Kiltie Pipe Band, and sang in the Cameron 
Choir. He was also a Delta Upsilon brother, and held the offices 
of Treasurer and Rush Chairman. He wrote for the Technical, 
which was a monthly magazine that published technical ar
ticles written by students. I guess I've always been that way. 
One of my big problems in life is that I want to do everything. 
Young earned his Bachelors degree in 1952, followed by his 
Master's degree in 1953. and his Ph.D., in an area that is now 
called High Energy Theory, in 1959. He was invited to join the 
faculty as a teacher, and has stayed in Pittsburgh ever since, 
except for two years spent at the University of Cal ifomia. I had 
discovered as a graduate student that I liked teaching, and that 
I had some aptitude for it. So from the very beginning, my 
career in phy sics has been almost entirely based on teaching."
Young may actually be best known among students for his coauthoring of the physics textbook used in introductory physics 
classes. His first book. Statistical Treatment of Experimental 
Data, grew out of some notes prepared for a sophomore 
physics course, and was published by McGraw-Hill in 1962. 
He was then invited by McGraw-Hill to participate in a series 
called Fundamentals in Physics, which was intended to be 
"the Cadillac of introductory college physics texts. He wrote 
two of the three volumes in the series, and by doing so, attracted 
the attention of Professor Sears, of MIT and Dartmouth, and 
Professor Zemansky, of the City College of New York.
Sears and Zemansky were planning to retire. As a result they 
were looking for a co-author for their textbooks, University 
Physics, the calculus-based text used here at CMU, and College 
Physics, which has a similar format but uses simpler math. 
Sears passed away in 1975, and Zemansky died in 1983, so the 
revisions are now performed solely by Young. That was an 
interesting development, as the books had been widely used, 
and Sears and Zemansky were both well known. I considered 
it a great honor for them to invite me to take over for them. At 
the same time, I felt like I imagine a violin maker must feel 
when somebody brings in a Stradivarius thats in need of repair. 
It s an honor to be asked to do it. but you want to make very sure 
that you don't ruin what was good about the instrument to begin 
with.
This semester Young is working full-time on the 7th edition 
of College Physics by Sears, Zemansky, and Young. This 
spring is a little bit of an experiment  whats it like to be here 
and not have the pressures of teaching every day?"
One fact about Young that few students may know is that he 
is an accomplished musician as well as an accomplished 
physicist. Young has been playing the piano since the age of 
four, and had organ training as a teenager. He was active in the 
Mendelssohn choir for several years after earning his 
Bachelor's Degree in 1952. As a graduate student, he started 
studying piano more seriously. I went through a period in 
which I got bogged down in my graduate study, and decided 
that doing some serious piano work would help me keep my 
sanity, and it did. Music has always been my first love. I 
sometimes think that music is more fun than physics. After he 
had joined the faculty, he began taking organ lessons again, and 
decided to take some music theory courses as well. The end 
result was his achievement of a second Bachelors degree in 
Music in 1972. No self-respecting physicist would be caught 
dead hanging a diploma, but this is a little different, because its 
a degree in music, so I feel Im justified in hanging it up, he 
joked. A lot of people come in, I think, and dont even notice 
it. Ive had students come in several times, and maybe on the 
third or fourth time they'll come in and do a double take and 
say, My God,this says Music.
Young has also managed to maintain a rapport with students. 
For many years, he was heavily involved with the Explorers 
Club, which he and friends founded during his years as a 
graduate student. Every year Young and his wife invite stu
dents to their home for Thanksgiving, a tradition that started 
about two years after they were married when they invited a 
group of students from the Explorers Club who lived too far 
away to go home for the holiday.
Although Professor Young has not been as involved with the 
Explorers Club and the Mendelssohn choir recently as he has 
been in past years, he is still keeping busy. Not only is he 
working on College Physics, but he is also in the midst of a 
skiing fling right now, and is preparing for an organ recital at 
Trinity Cathedral in May.
My wife thinks Im running after my lost youth, but I dont 
feel that old at all. At the age of 57, Ive reached the point where
I realize that Im not going to be able to accomplish all the 
things on my list of things I want to do. I dont really mind; in 
fact, Id rather it be that way than be one of those people who 
dont have such a list at all.
A Phi O congratulates 
The Paul Smith Me
morial Pledge Class 
for Spring 1988:
Steve Baier 
Michael Balsam 
Marc Bamberger 
Jon Bennet 
Daniel Casey 
Ruma Chawla 
Lisa Christina 
Ross Comer 
Richard Ford 
William Frank 
John Helmsen 
Cecil Huang 
Howard Kramer 
David Lee 
David Mark ley 
Shirpaul McLaughlin 
Steve Peters 
Abraham Saw 
Christine Sepples 
Cyle Sprick 
Marci Vail 
Meg Veilly 
Terry Young 
V______________________/
Internships
available
PITTSBURGH1988 In
ternships are available in the 
New York metropolitan area. 
The Student Internship Serv
ice offers listings of summer 
internships in major fields. 
Placements are available with 
sponsoring companies in 
New York. Many internships 
are either salaried or offer sti
pends. For information, write 
to Student Internship Service, 
P.O. aE Y^Lo Kings Park, 
New /EAr D^4d
FINANCIAL AID 
APPLICATI
FOR 1988-1989
Are available beginning February 8,1988 
in the second floor atrium 
in Warner Hall
You are advised to obtain a packet of application materials 
as soon as possible after February 8ih
General Filing Deadline: May l, 1988
(Unless otherwise specified by your state grant agency)

---------------------------------------------------

The following letter stimulated much discussion at the Counseling Center 
which coordinates the Walk-In Tutoring Program for Student Affairs. Please 
send any comments or suggestions regarding the tutoring ad or services 
directly to the Counseling Center, Morewood Gardens, E Tower.
Mow 'tkai -TVs* 1(3M* 0r* 0* ^
clec','3 s.- 1-fc* 70ToCi\\j&-' cuW+U*.* oof *7^ ^\bruaru -7~ a. T i
* ,fKH *~l 3o 0J+ <,gV.
I u* ien -fk qJ bifor, a*d
wr^^ed CM -Vk* creeps.
it t'pposecL*to ,'t a Mcri^oCd V/i+fc J*S
/+ Jrv q^tl i^ri^ "fiKs^ Js or feiA.aW?
Ujtort*^ ai\ts^ Jf T go i* "far tutor i*j,  *fkis
Kftw J Will looU Off*f^^VardlS ? jf -X **"
cJo c*otK.** j^rokk^ i.e"h wM*k ^
contiuj-ier. *S ^u3$Ci*
wtfW wkfeW to re/^lciie tK* Q*drog^*o.s
1* Prs**
Jt r> a f*f*4ur ^ S**art r*o*. Me ^ * 5>wart 
bcauj<. ke kas ^ce* ^ -Vo+ors.
MlTo
o^t>'cs <5r*^u*4t 'Stu<A*K,f
Off-Campus Housing
An Advisory/Referral Service 
is now being provided out of the 
Housing Office in 
Morewood Gardens.
See Norma Shaw, Off-Campus 
Housing Coordinator.
Students interested in discussing their 
housing needs or their desire to move off campus 
are invited to speak with Norma Shaw at their 
Convenience. Up-to-date and accurate information 
and listings are available upon request.
Other advice and support service is offered 
to students having apartments who need room
mates and to students who wish to share space in 
other apartments.
rsiOTOMN
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.-Thrus. 7-10 pm
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ECONOMICS 
ACADEMIC WRITING 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107- B 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH 5409
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 23,1988
f8ASSCTy d.2C1b1Ta bSO hsLL 8A2eK1SUaA1Ka TyTU gAS.0A
Swimmers suffer upset in UAA meet
photo by Tom Fabian
fmS f1AC1c P.gM CS1MP egcgPmSU TE. gc CmS egc1T PC1cUgcIPo USP0gCS egcS gcUg8gU21T SeeEACPd
By DAVE WILLIS
Tartan Staffwriter
The University Athletic Association held its 
swimming championships last weekend at the 
University of Rochester in New York.
Johns Hopkins, for the men. and Rochester, 
for the women, were the winning schools. 
Carnegie Mellon came up short in both meets. 
The men finished 5th and the women finished 
8th. However, even though the teams as a 
whole did not fare well, several individual 
Tartan swimmers had a banner day.
Making the most waves for the men was 
Greg Schooley, victorious in the 200 yard 
butterfly with a new school record time of 
1:56.1. He can swim faster, said Swimming 
Coach Jim Perkins of Schooleys perform
ance, adding that such speed made him an AllAmerican last year.
Schooley also set two other school records 
with times of 2:02.2 in the 200 yard individual 
medley and 4:18.3 in the 400 yard individual 
medley. This fine showing made Schooley 
eligible to represent Carnegie Mellon at the 
Division III national championships, to be 
held March 17-19 at Emory University in 
Atlanta.
Schooley was not the only one having a big 
weekend; Tartan swimmers set three addi
tional Carnegie Mellon records. Pat Hensler 
finished the mile freestyle with a time of 
17:04.9.
For the women, Francesca Crannell re
corded a 55.4 in the 100 yard freestyle and a 
2:01.5 in the 200 yard free. Her coach intoned, 
We need 15 more swimmers like Francesca, 
and well win the UAA. Suzie Kelly helped
out by setting a school record in the 500 yard 
freestyle with a time of 5:38.1. Kelley went on 
to set another school record of 5:13.3 in the 
400 yard individual medley.
Perkins claimed that he expected the teams to 
finish as they did in Rochester. He is optimistic 
about the upcoming PAC meet this weekend. 
"This is the first time Ive coached a team that
had to swim fast two weeks in a row. I think we 
can, he went on to say.
Perkins alludes to the Presidents Athletic 
Conference Championships this weekend at 
John Carroll University. There the Tartans and 
Lady Tartans look to take their first ever con
ference championships. Last year, both teams 
placed second.
Beauty and the beach
continued from page 18
graphs of scantily clad women on exotic 
beaches in order to kindle warm weather 
fantasies. Funny that Good Housekeep
ing or Womens Day dont publish male 
swimsuit issues; there are only so many 
recipes to be printed on romantic din
ners and hearty stews.
The most popular reason for Sports 
Illustrateds timing is that it gives 
women the reason to diet so that they can 
wear these scraps of cloth. This is why 
most women find this issue offensive.
Men and women look at this issue dif
ferently. Men want to ogle beautiful 
women and see how creative the swim
suits can get in showing skin. Women 
are critical of the bathing suits. The suits 
are looked at as the fashion guides for the 
upcoming beach season. Some women 
resent the fact that they will have to diet 
themselves down to fit into the suits.
Now, some of the suits featured this 
year are practical and wearable  they 
wont fall off, the wearer can actually 
swim in it or play frisbee, and it allows a 
good tan. Some of the suits arent bad at 
all; then there are others. These suits 
may be sexy, but getting a good tan in 
them is out of the question and just 
walking in it would probably be grounds 
for arrest. Most women would not pay 
$400 for a swimsuit or wear anything 
that looks like lingerie to the beach.
So February is pretty boring. Sports Il
lustrated has managed to liven things up 
a bit. Spring Training better start soon.
Have You Heard About 
High Tc Superconductors? 
Quasicrystals? 
Tough Cerimacs? 
Atomic Resolution?
These are Just a Few of the 
Exciting New Discoveries in 
Materials Science Today!
Find Out More About 
These Exciting Areas!
Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science
cvC hiUuMlSp ybUp .s8uU
Wean Hall 4327 Tuesday, Feb. 23rd
4:30 pm
Followed by informal discussion and refreshments.
ONLY 3 WEEKS OF 
ICE SKATING LEFT!
Grab your friends and LETS GO SKATING!
SHENLEY PARK ICE SKATING RINK,
Just 1/2 mile from campus, offers:
Beautiful outdoor setting
 State-of-the-art sound system
 Top quality rental skates
SPECIAL EVENTS BEFORE WE CLOSE INCLUDE:
 Singles Night
Feb. 26
 College ID Night
Every Tuesday night from 7-9:30pm 
One Dollar Admission with valid 
college ID
 96.1 WHTX Skate
Every Sunday afternoon
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL THE RINK AT:
422-6547

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage 17
Lady Tartans trip over Thiel and Grove City
continued from page 20
Their 10-4 scoring run ended the game 
52-47.
Top scorers for the Lady Tartans were 
Chorgo with 13 points and Lisa Lightner 
with 10. Reber led the Tartan attack on 
the backboard with 9 rebounds, fol
lowed by Chorgo with 8. Julie Irons and 
Carolyn Cochrane combined for 33 of 
Grove City's 52 points and 20 of the 
teams 47 rebounds.
Wednesday night, the Lady Tartans 
traveled to Greenville where they went 
up against the best team in the PAC, the 
Lady Cats of Thiel College. The Lady 
Cats pounced on the Lady Tartans and 
led the entire game. With 7:55 left in the 
first half and Thiel holding a command
ing 27-10 lead, Carnegie Mellon went 
on an 8-0 scoring streak, highlighted by 
two three-point buckets by Lightner.
Other first half highlights for the Lady 
Tartans were their 29 rebounds against 
Thiels 18. Carnegie Mellon was able to 
get within 7 points of Thiel; however, 
the Lady Cats held a 36-25 lead at 
r halftime.
In the second half, the Lady Tartans 
mustered only two points for every three 
of Thiels, being outscored 39-26. At 
one point, the Lady Cats led by as many 
as 25 points. Carnegie Mellons shoot
ing percentage from the floor in the 
second half was a mere .27 (10 of 37) 
and the team only pulled down 24 rebounds. Thiel, on the other hand, shot 
37% (15 of 41) from the floor and 
crashed the boards successfully 40 
times.
Chorgo led all scorers with 23 points 
and 20 rebounds for the Lady Tartans, 
but it wasn't enough, as five Lady Cats 
managed to have a double digit day. 
Thiels Cindy Bynum became the Lady 
<p Cats all-time leading scorer with 1117 
points, surpassing the leader with her 
first two points of the game.
The final week of the season has the 
Lady Tartans at home tonight at 7:00 
against the Lady Bisons of Bethany and 
at Washington & Jefferson on Thursday 
at 5:30.
photo by lan Hall
fAgPm tmEAIE 02CP 20 1 PmEC gc mS18b 
CA1eegOo S1TgSA CmgP PS1PEcd
*1-----------------------------------------------------------
u8T m2Og2Ua 0Tg ,28D SU gO28D
Timmons hat trick helps topple IUP
photo by Andy Gillespie
sScgEA fAgt10C1gco >ASI fgMMEcP -"'o C1rSP 1 m1AU OmSOr 1I1gcPC 3gCC 1C CmS tg8gO 
vASc1d fgMMEcP POEASU C.E IE1TP gc Cm1C I1MS 1cU gP 1 F3t9v TS1UgcI POEASAd
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter 
A Greg Timmons hat trick led the Ice Tartans 
to a 3-1 victory over the Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania (IUP) Apaches Thursday at 
Belmont Ice Arena.
Carnegie Mellon, who had tied IUP, 3-3, five 
days earlier, increased its record to 5-3-3 in 
West Penn College Hockey Association 
(WPCHA) play. The Tartans are currently 
tied for third place with Penn State West (6-5-
1), seven points behind Pitt (9-3-2).
But it was IUP (3-5-4) who wasted no time 
Thursday night. Chris Moore gave the 
Apaches a 1-0 lead just 91 seconds into the 
contest.
Although the Tartans had been caught off 
guard in the early moments, the rest of the 
game was characterized by tough, hard-hitting 
play by both teams.
Of note was the outstanding play of IUPs 
goaltender Matt Stasko who kept the Apaches 
in the game despite heavy Tartan pressure. 
With one stand-up save after another, Stasko 
prevented Carnegie Mellon from capitalizing 
on several scoring opportunities. It started to 
frustrate our team, reported freshman defenseman Jamie Savian. He forced us to try to 
get a perfect shot. It made us play a game we 
didnt want to play.
Finally at the 10:43 mark, Timmons scored 
the Tartans first goal. Sophomore left wing 
Todd Henderson worked the puck out from 
behind the net to Timmons in front of the goal. 
The senior tri-captain beat Stasko to tie the 
score.
The Tartans were not able to utilize a five 
minute power play opportunity in the final 
minutes of the scoreless second period, when 
IUP was assessed a major penalty for high 
sticking.
The problem was that when the puck would 
be cleared into our end, the wings would stop 
and wait for it at the blue line. Savian said. He 
added that instead of hustling on the ice and 
using the extra man advantage, the Tartans 
were too slow to use the power play effec
tively.
Early in the third period, Stasko, who had 
kept IUP in the contest, got hurt and had to 
leave the game. He went down to make a pad 
save on a Jim Larsen slapshot and took the full 
brunt of the shot on his knee cap. Apache 
defenseman Brock Robinson played surpris
ingly well in place of Stasko.
The Tartans did not take advantage of the 
untested, unsure goalie. We were much too 
lax. We thought we could shoot on him 
(Robinson] at any time and get the goal. We 
didnt realize that he was going to be able to 
stop some shots. We gave them far too many 
dangerous chances, remarked Savian.
Timmons, however, was able to score two 
goals off Robinson. Right wing Sean McGinn, 
a fellow senior tri-captain, fed Timmons at 
6:54 for his Tartan-leading 10th assist of the 
season. Timmons, the WPCHAs scoring 
leader with 21 goals and six assists, added 
icing to the cake with an unassisted slapshot 
from the red line with just less than four 
minutes remaining.
Sophomore goaltender Kerber received PHI 
Player of the Game for his outstanding goaltending in the last two games. This was a major 
accomplishment for Kerber since the last time 
he held another team to one goal was Novem
ber 22 in a 3-1 win over Penn State West. In his 
last three outings, he has yielded just seven 
goals, dropping his goals against average to 
3.37, second best in the conference.
Carnegie Mellon faced Penn State West last 
night, and will go to Meadville tomorrow 
evening to take on Allegheny (2-10-1). Victo
ries in both games would clinch a third place 
finish and assure Carnegie Mellon home-ice 
advantage in the first round of the playoffs, 
which begin this weekend.
In the eight-team WPCHA, the top two fin
ishers get byes, third place hosts sixth, fourth 
hosts fifth, and the bottom two finishers hit the 
golf course. Barring any surprises this week 
around the league, Carnegie Mellon will 
probably host IUP or West Virginia (4-5-2) 
Saturday evening at Belmont, while Penn 
State will host the other Friday or Saturday at 
Lakevue Ice Palace. Gannon (13-0-1) and Pitt 
will watch and wait.
The Tartans feel they will need to increase 
their intensity level in order to succeed in post
season play. Carnegie Mellon lost to 
Duquesne, 5-4, in the WPCHA Championship 
Game a year ago.
Savian asserted, We need to get our heads in 
the game early, in the locker room, and not 
while were skating around in the warm-ups. 
At game time, the only thing you should be 
thinking about is the hockey game, he added.
SERVICE DESK
&
RECROOM 
ATTENDANTS
* Applications now being accepted for 
1988 SUMMER and FALL semesters
* Must be work-study eligible
* Applications due Friday March 18th
* For an application or further 
information, please stop by or 
contact the Housing Office at x2139

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 23,1988
Sexy swimwear
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffer iter
That time of year has come. Men are 
once again flocking to newsstands and 
their mailboxes, panting and drooling. 
This odd behavior is courtesy of the new 
swimsuit issue that Sports Illustrated 
has put out. There has got to be a reason 
that a respected athletic journal would 
publish a photo spread that makes most 
men threaten the domestic harmony in 
their lives by suggesting that they buy 
her one of those! or asking why she 
doesnt look like that in a bathing suit.
The answer to this lies in the time of the 
year. Its February and with the excep
tion of Valentines Day, not much is 
going on, especially in sports. The ques
tion of the week  why does Sports Il
lustrated put out the swimsuit now?
A popular reply from both men and 
women is to fill up the space between the 
Superbowl and Spring Training. This 
actually makes a lot of sense. Look at the 
other features in this month's issue: 
Sport in the Land of Sanuk and a Pueblo 
Indian who finds spiritual peace in 
mountain running. There just isn't all 
that much news concerning sports in the 
middle of winter. This is the year of the 
Winter Olympics but there is a separate 
issue for that stuff.
Another explanation for the issues 
timing is male hormones. Men complain 
that they are tired of winter. Discour
aged with not being able to determine a 
womans true shape under her fifteen 
layers of clothing, men turn to photocontinued on page 16
3vRf9s vRl 9,/ vs avF\
The Pittsburgh Panthers and Geor
getown Hoyas clashed in a Big East 
matchup last Sunday at the Civic Arena, 
with the game being cancelled with four 
seconds remaining. The game was 
called due to a bench clearing brawl 
which erupted after Georgetown was at 
the foul line, down by 5 points. The 
officials needed Arena Security on the 
floor to stop four other skirmishes that 
started after the main fight ended.
nsv k\,3s uR tv\>v/
The XV Winter Olympics in Calgary 
started this past week, and the United 
States has had its problems.
Brian Boitano has been one of the only 
major glimmers of hope for the US. 
Boitano was a favorite in the Mens 
figure skating event and won the gold 
medal on Saturday by having excellent 
showings in the short and standard pro
grams.
In speedskating, Dan Jansen, one of 
the USAs best hopes for a medal, fell in 
both of his events. He was struck by the 
news of his sisters death just hours 
before his.first race, and fell in the first 
turn of that race.
In his second race last Wednesday, 
Jansen fell in the straightaway, even 
though he was well in front of his com
petition and had split times that were fast 
enough for the gold medal.
The United States hockey team had a 
remote shot at making this weeks 
medal round, despite losing two games 
last week; 7-5 to both Czechoslovakia 
and to the Soviet Union.
Team USA had to win its last two 
games against Norway and West Ger
many, going into the weekend.
Unfortunately, the Amercians lost to 
the West Germans Sunday night by a 
score of 4-1. That loss put them out of 
medal contention. The USSR is still the 
favorite to win the gold medal.
9,f Ru>9f k, \vl/ tvfs
One of two vans taking the Thiel Col
lege womens basketball team to their 
game against Geneva College last Mon
day caught fire en route, forcing an 
emergency exit. The team finally made 
it to Geneva, and won 70-59, for head 
coach Gie Rhoads 100th victory.
f9 fus 9v uf
Fans wearing outrageous looking ties 
were admitted at discount prices to the 
Syracuse womens basketball game 
against Auburn last week. Tie Night 
was another stab at Auburn football 
coach Pat Dye, who opted for a gametying field goal in the closing seconds of 
the Sugar Bowl.
a\\ su>Rs Fuf9 Vv/s
The 1987 American League MVP 
George Bell signed last week with the 
Toronto Blue Jays one day before his 
two million dollar arbitration suit was to 
be heard. Bell signed for $1.9 million 
over the next two years.
In other baseball news, New York 
Mets pitcher Dwight Gooden lost his 
arbitration hearing and will receive a 
$50,000 pay cut for 1988. Overall, the 
owners are winning arbitration cases 
this year by a 2 to 1 ratio.
Big trouble in the Big East
By MARK LEPOSKY
Special to the Tartan
Athletic competition allegedly affects the 
best in an individual, but in the Big East, where 
college basketballs competition is arguably 
the fiercest, the best are behaving the worst.
In recent weeks the actions and attitudes of 
several Big East coaches have diverted atten
tion from midcourt to the coaches box. As the 
fight for first has intensifed, Pitt Head Coach 
Paul Evans relationships with Georgetowns 
John Thompson and Villanovas Rollie Massimino have become similar to those between 
Hulk Hogan and the Iron Sheik. The leaders of 
these top programs now trade accusations and 
insults instead of postgame handshakes.
Evans claims the 68 Thompson intimidates 
the referees into being a little too fair in favor 
of Georgetown. Evans is right; Thompson is 
guilty of that charge. But if you got it, flaunt 
it. Working the refs has become an integral 
component of successful coaching.
Boston College mentor Gary Williams 
wisely refused to comment on Thompsons 
courtside manner. Maybe Williams fully 
understands the push-and-shove nature of the 
relationship between coaches and referees. 
Perhaps Williams knows that by complaining 
over Thompsons influence with the 
conferences officials he would be perceived 
as a sore-losing crybaby. Possibly, Williams 
realizes that publicly criticizing another 
coachs behavior is not his responsibility.
Massimino and Evans each claim the other is 
guilty of breaking an unwritten rule between 
Big East coaches. This mythical statute dic
tates that each of the conference's coaches is 
required not to approach anothers recruit. 
Half of the Big East is annually on the verge of 
being top twenty caliber. Pitt, Georgetown,
and Syracuse are all in the nations elite 
twenty, while Villanovas Wildcats are stalk
ing prey among those highly-ranked clubs.
With this kind of game-in-and-game-out 
competition, the impropriety of competing 
for the same blue-chip recruits is indisputably 
archaic. Pitt football coach Mike Gottfried and 
his Penn State counterpart Joe Patemo dont 
publicly squabble as they battle over in their 
mutual pool of Eastern football talent.
On Saturday, with four seconds left in Pitts 
confrontation with Georgetown, the ugliness 
in the Big East reared its head in the form of a 
bench-clearing brawl at the Civic Arena. After 
the combatants were separated, and leaving 
the last four seconds unplayed, Thompson led 
his troops from the floor to the locker rooms 
shelter. Fortunately, the audience was spared 
what was likely to be an antagonistic postgame 
display between Thompson and Evans.
Pointing fingers to determine who started 
this latest regrettable incident is an utterly 
superficial attempt at a solution. Its more 
important to point a finger at the man who can 
put a stop to additional altercations, whether 
they occur between players or coaches.
Dave Gavitt, the Big Easts commissioner, 
must renounce his laissez-faire attitude and 
negotiate an armistice between the men who 
create the conferences climate. While coales
cence cant be expected, comportment with 
dignity must be demanded of these representa
tive of higher learning. Its not Gavitts fault 
that these coaches have seemingly forgotten 
their duty to set a good example and encourage 
sportsmanship; but it is his duty to address the 
problem and avoid any further damage to the 
Big Easts reputation.
By the way, Pitt won by five  if that still 
matters.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
O
<1
O
Tartan Sports Calendar
February 23: Womens Basketball vs. Bethany College at Skibo Gym, 7:00 pm
Mens Basketball at Bethany College, 8:00 pm (WRCT)
February 25: Womens Basketball at Washington & Jefferson College, 5:30 pm
Mens Basketball at Washington & Jefferson College, 7:30 pm 
February 25-27: Swimming at PAC Championships at John Carroll University 
February 27-28: Hockey at 1st Round WPCHA Playoffs
IM News
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, March 3rd, at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
f9 uj fut:dd
s3,fs uR svs,R
a1PrSCy1TT
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediate - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottscaefer x5503 
Women - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Please play all games as scheduled, and make 
sure winning team is circled on scoresheet. 
Game officials must sign the game score sheet 
to make the game official.
kTEEA 9EOrSb
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Changes to the schedule are up on the IM 
bulletin board.
3gcEOmTS
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM office. Please play all matches as sched
uled. The third round matches should be 
played this week. Call all results into Peter.
FASPCTgcI
Commissioner Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Practices are scheduled for Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday from 3:30pm to 
4:45pm in Thistle Hall. The 1988 IM Real 
Man Wrestling Tournament will be held Sat
urday, March 5th at 9am in Thistle Hall. Post 
Entry Weight in at 9am that morning.
F1CSA a1PrSCy1TT
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Bender, at x4552.
f1yTS fSccgP
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Revised schedules are out and can be picked 
up in the IM office and as soon as possible. 
Please report all results to Stu or the IM office.
a1PrSCy1TT kE2T smEECgcI
Commissioner Dan Michel x4684 
Shooting dates are March 15-16 from 6-8pm 
in the Gym.
fS1M t1TT 3EET 1cU ucUg8gU21T t1TT 3EET
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436
s3,fs t,juR> n3
tESO a1UMgcCEc
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Tournament dates will be announced soon.
s.gMMgcI
Commissioner Hal Levine x5981 
Meet Date will be Monday, March 21st, at
Intramural Night is fast approaching. The 
official date is Thursday, March 3, beginning 
at 7pm in Skibo Gym. The schedule of events 
that evening will be: 7:00pm, Intermediate 
Basketball Final; 8:00pm, Presentation of IM 
awards; 8:30pm, Majors Basketball Final. 
Any team that has won an IM award can pick 
it up at 8:00pm that night. Everyone is encour
aged to attend in the gym.
The winter IM season started to come to a 
close last week as the racquetball league fin
ished play. In the Major Leagues, Phi Kappa 
Theta defeated Kappa Sigma, and in the Mi
nors championship, Sigma Tau Gamma beat 
Delta Upsilon. In Darts playoff competition, 
Pi Lambda Phi defeated Gootwoo 2-1 in the 
Division P quarter final. Pi Lam will meet X 
in one semifinal. In Division Q action, Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon will be playing Sigma Nu.
In a major incident this past Thursday night, 
both ATO and The Monks were thrown out of 
the majors basketball league after a fight broke 
out on the court. Similar incidents will be 
handled the same way.
The next major team sport, Indoor Soccer, is 
just around the comer. Teams are reminded to 
get their rosters in as soon as possible. Also, 
anyone who is interested in joining the offi
cials club should contact the IM office at 
x2214.
The teams that will be on The Road to 
Skibo for the 1988 IM basketball champion
ships are encouraged to call the IM office or 
look at the IM bulletin board for the playoff 
schedule which is now posted. Wednesday, 
February 24, will be the first night of playoff 
action in all leagues. All teams are reminded 
that it is their responsibility to check the dates 
and times of their playoff games. All dates and 
times for playoff games are final and will not 
be changed.
Finally, here are the final 1988 regular sea
son UPI-IM basketball rankings for the week 
of games ending February 18, 1988:
Majors
1. DRAMS
2. The Squad
3. 1085 Lions
4. Spirit-B
5. Fixers
Intermediates
1. Sudsuckers
2. Pioneers-A
3. Ben-Wa-Balls
4. Mathletes/Underdog
5. Civ Es
Minors
1. Pika Power
2. Sigma Tau Gamma
3. Scobell Milkmen
4. Bushmen
IM Standings
BASKETBALL STANDINGSDIVISION EWL
STILL A PULSE31
WOMENS BASKETBALLWLYOGIS BEARS31
SUPA40PIKA-C31
5 C&D PLAYERS21HISTORY GRADS22
CIA SHORT TEAM22ZOO-B13
AFROTC13KDR04
SOPHISTICATED LADIES04
DIVISION FWL
MAJORSwLFLY BY NIGHT31
DRAMS51VDB WHITE I31
THE SQUAD52CIA32
1085 LIONS52MONKEY PUS22
SPIRIT-B43SAE-C23
FIXERS33PROUD PETE04
BETA23
SUPA MAGIC25DIVISION GWL
ALABAMA SLAMMERS16SCOBELL MILKMEN40
PIKA-A16UCC31
ATO WOLFPACKOut of LeagueNAVY ROTC31
THE MONKSOut of LeagueAFROTC22
PHI KAP-AI4
INTERMEDIATEAPHIO LOBS05
NORTHwL
BEN-WA-BALLS60DIVISION HwL
UNDERDOG5ISIG TAU50
ROBBER BARONS33MAYS MUCHROOMS21
ORANGE23FECAL SOUP21
PKT LTL'S23ATO SFP22
SDC-FINAL EFFORT14THE WEESUCKS14
PIPES15L.Y.T.P.04
SOUTH w L
SUDSUCKERS 6 0
THETA XI-A 5 1
DU-A 4 2
KAPPA SIGMA 2 3
THE BOUNCERS 2 5
DYNAMIC RAMS 1 4
THETA XI-B 1 5
EAST W L
CIV ES 5 1
Z00-A 4 2
ATO WOLVERINES 3 1
BETA W.P.H.A. 2 2
G.M.D.S. 2 4
SPUDSHOOTERS 1 3
THE REPLACEMENTS 1 5
WEST W L
PIONEERS-A 5 0
MATHLETES 4 0
DAVES TEAM 3 I
SAE-B 2 3
PRANKSTERS I 3
ATO CUBS 1 5
PHYSICS 0 4
MINORS
DIVISION A W L
DU-A 5 1
ME-GRADSS 5 I
WRITER'S BLOCK 4 2
SBX-ASYLUM 4 2
UNCONTROLLED MUSCLE 2 4
ATO-SCHLEPS 1 5
TROJANS
1
Out of League
DIVISION BWL
BUSHMEN50
ATO-OVER 20041
WOODLAWN32
SHIP OF FOOLS23
WITH OURSELVES14
DU-B05
DIVISION CWL
PIKA POWER50
THETA XI C32
CSO32
SDC23
KAPPA SIG-B14
LONESOME LOSERS14
DIVISION DWL
WAWAWS III 
PI LAM
MONEY FOR NOTHIN/GSIA3
SAE F TROOP 
WOODSTOCK 
THE K-MEN
DIVISION I 
SMODNOCS 
SOLD SHORT 
DTD 
WHAT?
PHI KAP-WEST 
PIONEERS B
W
4
4
4
2
0
0
FLOOR HOCKEY STANDINGS
MAJORS W
POND SCUM 2
THE NOYS OF BOLOGNA 2 
PHI KAP I
MEXICAN EARTHQUAKES 1 
DYNAMO 1
DU 1
PIKA 0
SAE 0
MINORS
NORTH
PIONEERS
ZOO
SUDSCUCKERS 
THE BEAT
ESCAPE FROM NOISE
SOUTH 
PI LAM
SLOPE OF VENUS 
THETA XI 
AEPI
BOSS HOGS 
EAST
TRANSFORMERS 
MOOSE JAW WARRIORS 
DTD 
CIA
HAMMER SLAMMERS 
SDC
WEST 
SIG TAU 
OUTLAWS 
LEE S ARMY 
AFROTC 
KDR
WLT
200
100
110
010
020
WLT
200
100
100
020
020
wLT
101
I0t
110
I10
110
020
wLT
200
110
110
000
020
4:30pm.
WomensjSc$P a1PrSCy1TTFEMSc$P a1PrSCy1TT
FSgImC \geCgcI1. SUPAPACW *LPACWL
Commissioner Keith Gorse x22222. 5 C&D PlayersJohn Carroll81Thiel92
Entries will be due February 25th.Grove City73John Carroll82
Wash. & Jeff.64Wash. & Jeff.74
91cUy1TTt1AcSIgS jSTTEcN4t1AcSIgS jSTTEc^^
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214Bethany37Grove City46
Last call.Hiram27Hiram37
Thiel28Bethany010
ucUEEA sEOOSA
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516 
Entries are due February 25th.
VARSITY STANDINGS

---------------------------------------------------

S
The Tartan
PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
c2n1Ta 0S SU 2 C.8DCTaa CSa1U0 agOT2DWomen go winless
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffer iter
Most teams come together for a final 
surge at the end of their season. Again, 
Carnegie Mellon is the exception. After 
winning five straight games, the Lady Tar
tans have dropped three of their last four. 
This week's losses came at the hands of 
Presidential Athletic Conference oppo
nents Thiel College 75-51 and Grove City 
College 52-47.
After Wednesdays loss to Thiel, the only 
goal left for the Lady Tartans was to stay 
above the .500 mark. Saturday afternoons 
performance against Grove City College 
(6-14 overall; 4-6 PAC) was not indicative 
of a team winning 50% of their games. 
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to an early 
lead, but Grove City pulled ahead 15-14 
with 9:02 left to play in the first half. Two 
quick fouls on Tricia Chorgo and Aimee 
Reber, along with inconsistent shooting, 11 
of 38 (.289) from the floor, allowed the 
Lady Wolverines to lead by as many as 6
points.
Grove City played a very clean game, ac
cording to the officials  not the fans. The 
Lady Wolverines had only 2 team fouls the 
entire first half. This hurt the Lady Tartans 
because it kept them away from the free 
throw line, where they are shooting 61 % on 
the year. The Lady Wolverines shot 46% 
from the floor (12 of 26), which allowed 
them to hold a 28-24 lead at halftime.
The second half started slowly. Neither 
team scored in the first two and a half 
minutes. Soon, the Lady Tartans began 
chipping away at Grove Citys lead, despite 
the fact that the officials were calling jumpballs rather than fouls. Steals, resulting 
from Carnegie Mellonss full court press 
and Grove Citys sloppy passing, allowed 
the Lady Tartans to regain the lead, 41 -40, 
at the 6:47 mark. After the lead changed 
hands several times in the following min
utes, the Lady Wolverines finally took 
control with four minutes left in the game.
continued on page 17
Mens basketball bounces back
photo by Kelley Albert
l18gU sMgCm UAg8SP eEA 1 T1b20 1I1gcPC >AE8S tgCb T1PC .SSr gc srgyE >bMd
season, beating the Tomcats 97-84.
Thiel has one of the PACs youngest squads, 
fielding seven freshman in its eleven man 
roster. Carnegie Mellons more experienced 
team jumped out early and never looked back.
Sophomore Harvey Beckham continued to 
establish himself as a legitimate threat from 
outside with three first-half bombs from threepoint range. The Tartans led at the half, 47-31.
The start of the second half was no kinder to 
Thiel. Eight straight Carnegie Mellon points 
pushed the Tartan lead to 24 points before the 
Tomcats could even get on the scoreboard.
Once Thiel got onto the board, however, 
there was no stopping the Tomcats. The two 
teams traded baskets and combined for 10: 
second-half points.
Tartan Head Coach Larry Anderson was 
very pleased with his teams first road victory 
and the squads general level of play. It was 
the right time for us to go in and beat them. I 
think that the players have dedicated them
selves to the returners. Youd like to see this 
retroactively; it didnt happen. Hopefully, 
were going to end the season on a positive 
note.
To do that,the Tartans need to win their final 
two games, on the road, against Bethany and 
Washington & Jefferson. Coleman, for one, is 
going to miss the home crowd. Weve appre
ciated all of the fan support this year, he 
proclaimed.
The Tartans face Bethany and their aceshooter Ron Bozick tonight at 8:00 pm. The > 
last time these two teams met, Daren Moffatt 
had his best performance in a Carnegie Mellon 
uniform, scoring 35 points and 15 rebounds. 
The then-sharpshooting Tartans hit 18 of 26 
second-half shots to rout the Bisons 87-70.
They close out their season Thursday in 
Washington against the W&J Presidents. A 
second-half comeback led by Dave Branchen 
and Dan Jones, combined with Carnegie 
Mellon shooting a dreadful eight of 33 from 
the floor, gave Washington and Jefferson a 66- 
61 win when the two teams met earlier this
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Two weeks ago, the mens basketball Tar
tans had been given up for dead. A road loss to 
hapless Hiram had sunk the squad to a disap
pointing fourth place in the Presidents Ath
letic Conference.
Now, fourteen days and three games later, 
Carnegie Mellon owns a three-game winning 
streak, including wins against the two top 
teams in the PAC and its first road win.
Weve dedicated ourselves to end the sea
son on a positive note to have the guys who are 
coming back have something for next year, 
explained senior co-captain Hart Coleman.
The 67 Brashear High graduate has been 
one of the Tartans providing positive notes. He 
led Carnegie Mellon in scoring both nights, 
amassing a career-high 30 points at Thiel, and 
28 more in his final home game against Grove 
City.
The crowd at the Grove City game saw 
Coleman and the team's other seniors Tom 
Franklin and David Smith led the team in a 75- 
68 victory over the Wolverines. Before the 
game, the three were honored in a ceremony 
acknowledging their four years of service.
The cheers from the crowd and the memory 
of their 63-49 loss to Grove City three weeks 
earlier helped the Tartans come out smoking. 
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to a 9-0 lead 
before Grove Citys Joe Buckley could put the 
Wolverines on the scoreboard.
The Tartans played the seasons best minutes 
of basketball in the early going. A Franklin 
three-pointer put the team up 23-10 with 12:19 
remaining. In the two schools earlier match
up, Carnegie Mellon had only managed 20 
points in the first half.
However, the game was not to be a rout. As 
quickly as the Tartans had established a lead, 
Grove City set out to erase it. The Wolverines 
clawed their way out of their hole, pulling to 
within one, on a Steve Carlson jumper with 
just a minute remaining in the half. Carnegie 
Mellon got four unanswered points to close 
out the half with a 38-33 lead.
photo by Kelley Albert
David Sikora jumps over the Grove City defense to get a pass to Hart Coleman (32). 
Coleman had 28 points in this, the last Tartan home game of the season.
Grove City continued to threaten in the sec
ond half, but Coleman set out to inspire the 
Tartans. First, he became Camegie Mellons 
third all-time scorer with a layup. On the next 
possession, a monstrous, one-handed slam 
dunk set the Skibo Gym crowd ablaze. The 
senior center played down the shot explaining, 
I tried it in a game against Thiel, luckily it 
worked today.
Coleman led all scorers with 28 points. Jun
ior forward, Daren Moffatt added 16 rebounds 
and 15 points, while his mate in the frontcourt, Darryl Long, had 10 points. Deron Ryan 
led the Wolverines with 27 points.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans made their 
final trip north on Interstate 79 to meet the 
Thiel Tomcats. The team has not enjoyed 
leaving Pittsburgh. In their previous eight road 
games, the team averaged only 58.1 points per 
game and managed a high of only 68 against 
St. Vincent. '
Camegie Mellon got the monkey off of its 
back in a big way. The Tartans erupted for their
mnct nnlntc in nnp ctamp cinpp thp 1Q'7Q_'7Q

---------------------------------------------------

THEATRE......................Page D2
Mary Barnes takes us on a journey 
through madness
BOOKS............................Page D5
From the Engineering Dept, comes The 
Official Toolie Handbook
Manon is a charmerGo with 
The Flow
AB Dance festooned the
Skibo Ballroom with pine
apples and sand on Febuary 
13th as local reggae group 
The Flow played to a packed 
Ballroom.
The band strummed and 
skanked through a repetoire 
that included original mate
rial and reggae classics like 
Marleys "I Shot The Sheriff 
and No Woman, No Cry.
An obviously appreciative 
crowd cheered the band on 
for four hours. Once again, 
the attendance level for the 
show was extremely high, 
nearing or surpassing that for 
George Gee three weeks ago. Jammin* with the Flow in Skibo Ballroom
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
Shut up n play yer guitar
Zappa to play the 
Mosque; second show 
added on March 8
ab ln ju\\
Tartan Contributing Editor
Mention the name Frank Zappa to a group of 
people and youre bound to get responses 
ranging from musical virtuoso to crusader 
for First Amendment freedoms to yeech.
Impressed or not, nearly everyone has an 
opinion of him, which may well qualify him 
^for the coveted title of Least Ignored Per
former in the Latter Portion of the 20th-Cen
tury. Then again, how can you ignore some
one who has recorded songs about dental floss, 
Catholic girls, and yellow snow?
If you havent formed your opinion of him 
yet, heres your chance. This Thursday, Frankthe-musician will be performing at the Syria 
Mosque at 7:30 pm. And, if after the concert 
you find yourself wishing you could see him 
again, theres a second show on March 8, same 
time and place.
This tour is his first in over three years. 
Zappa, who calls this one of the most impor
tant tours weve done, has assembled an 11- 
piece band including one stunt guitar, five 
saxophones, two flutes, a flugelhom, and an Eflat contra bass clarinet. Zappa himself will be 
playing his guitar (natch), but will also appear
* for the first time with a synclavier, an instru
ment hes been experimenting with since the 
end of his 84 tour. Jazz from Hell, his 
highly enjoyable 1986 release, featured his 
Synclavier work on all but one of the vocalless 
tracks (St. Etienne).
On this tour Zappa will perform a variety of 
older material (Mr. Green Genes, Black 
Napkins, and Eric Dolphy Memorial Barbe1 cue from the 1970s release Weasels Ripped 
My Flesh), as well as newer songs. Zappas 
disdain for the less-than-ethical aspects of our 
society is apparent in titles like When the 
Lies So Big, a timely number dealing with 
Pat Robertsons campaign; his mastery of 
musical styles is demonstrated by including 
Bartoks Third Piano Concerto in the concert 
lineup; but his devotion to the absurd still 
predominates, with Why Dont You Like
ab Vvu >u\\,jv5nvt9
Tartan Staffer iter 
A film like Manon of the Spring, the sequel to 
last years highly acclaimed Jean de Florette, 
is proof of how atrophied the sensitivities of 
American film makers have become.
In a time when most of what passes for 
entertainment are clumsy, disjointed sto
rylines contrived for the benefit of a bankable 
star, French director Claude Berri s adaptation 
of the second book of Marcel Pagnols novel 
L'eau des Colines is an unusual delight.
In telling the story of a feral womans revenge 
upon the men who killed her father he has 
brought to the screen a story of epic scope, 
featuring realistic characters, an intriguing 
storyline and a powerful message.
Manon is one of the most beautiful films of 
the year. Through Bruno Nuittens exquisite 
cinematography we see the beauty of the Pro
vencal landscape that serves as the backdrop 
for the story.
The care taken in constructing the reality in 
this film is evident in every frame. Every detail 
in the picture looks authentic, from the adver
tisements on the village walls to the fanning 
methods used by the Soubeyrands.
For all of the picture's beauty and detail, the 
cast is never overwhelmed by their surround
ings. Yves Montand as Cesar Soubeyrand, the 
man responsible for the death of Manon's 
father, plays his part with grace and dignity. 
His unaffected portrayal of a wealthy Proven
cal landowner masterfully conveys the pride 
and later the remorse of a man whose greed has 
cost him the lives of those he loved most. 
Oddly enough, the part of Manon is the least 
demanding of the picture, requiring mostly 
that the actress stare wistfully into the fields. 
However, Emmanuelle Beart. whose stunning 
beauty alone could carry the film, brings to it 
the perfect blend of savagery, sorrow and 
vengeance.continued on page 02
Frank Zappa and friend compare noses.
Me,complete with a listing of people who are 
not the illegitimate children of Michael 
Jackson; and Planet of the Baritone Women, 
called the tragic story of male junior execu
tives who achieve success by carrying purses. 
Zappa, who has recorded almost 50 albums 
since his 1966 debut Freak Out, is currently 
working on Honker Home Video (yes, it's 
named after his nose), a cable TV channel to 
bring state-of-the-art-weirdness into homes 
across the country. So far HHV has produced 
two videos: Baby Snakes  The Complete
Version and Video from Hell. Zappa 
wrote, directed, and produced both. He also 
owns his own record company, Barking 
Pumpkin Records, and a mail order and mer
chandising firm, Barfko-Swill.
Zappa has also been an active voice in pro
tecting First Amendment rights and in oppos
ing censorship. He testified at Congressional 
hearings against the Parents Musical Re
source Center (Tipper Gores personal cru
sade against what she feels are obscene rock 
lyrics) and their efforts to give records differ
ent ratings based on content, similar to movie 
ratings. On the lecture circuit, Zappa spoke at 
CMU in November, 1986 about censorship. 
AIDS, the PMRC, Ed Meese, and other prob
lems facing society.
Frank Zappa will appear at the Syria 
Mosque this Thursday, Feb. 25, at 7:30 pm. 
Dicesare-Engler has also added a special 
show on March H, due to the high demand for 
seats. Tickets are still available for both shows 
For more information, call the Syria Mosque 
box office at 333-9550.
wIImPhoto: Mark Hanauer

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanFebruary 23,1988
The Connells and Scruffy the Cat...Graffitis Best show of the year
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Music Critic
Last Monday night (not last Monday, but last 
last Monday, as in last week), the Connells and 
Scruffy the Carplayed Graffiti. If you missed 
it. then go stand in the comer - I'll deal with 
you later.
Now, those of you who were there know just 
how great a show it was. Just stick with me 
while I enlighten these other people, and 
chime in if I miss anything.
As for those of you in the comer, listen up. 
For a measly six bucks, you could have 
watched the Connells and Scruffy the Cat, but 
especially the Connells, in one of the best 
shows the Graffiti, or even Pittsburgh, has had 
the good fortune to host. (I told you it was 
going to be good, didn't I? You should listen to 
people more.) You also could have helped to 
encourage more under 21 shows in the area, 
which is a very noble thing, but that's not as 
important as the fact that it was a good, great, 
really awesome show that was undoubtedly 
more worthwhile than anything you were 
doing at the time. Really.
While the Connells music is particularly 
notable for its use of harmony, along with a
blend of Irish and Southern pop influences, 
shown on their latest album Boylan Heights, 
their live show displays an aggressive nature 
of the band that is only hinted at on their album. 
The band puts an even greater amount of 
energy into their songs in concert, and as a 
result, the separate parts of each song develop 
a more aggressive nature. The guitars ex
change a bit of jangle and shine for some fuzz 
and roar, the drumming rises from a mere 
rhythmical role to one of greater prominence, 
and the vocals, still flowing over and through 
each other, lose a bit of their smooth warmth in 
exchange for a bit more fury. Even the key
boards that were so unobtrusively effective on 
the album are able to sit right out in front of the 
song without being distracting. It all adds up to 
a show that is totally spellbinding; one that 
leaves the spectator giddy for days afterwards, 
unable to describe the show in any other words 
than great and amazing.
What? Im getting too serious? Oh. Sorry 
about that.
The band started both shows with OT2, an 
instrumental and a nifty touch that more bands 
would do well to emulate. (Peele Wimberley, 
the lead singer, starts the concert in the audiDH2210 THIS WEEK
Thursday, February 25
The Seventh Seal
This is considered to be a masterpiece which deals with such familiar Bergman themes as 
mans loss of faith, his disillusion with life, his inability to overcome guilt and humiliation, 
his self-torment, fate vs. free will, good vs. evil, and conflict in marriage. It tells a story of 
a knight just returning from the crusades. He meets Death, who challenges him to a chess 
match, the stakes being his life. One might wonder why Death would bother with a chess 
game, but this is a Bergman film. The knight is brilliantly played by Max von Sydow.
Director: Ingmar Bergman
Cast: Max von Sydow, Bibi Anderson, Gunnar Bjomstrand 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10
Friday, February 26
The Princess Bride
It's a film about a fairy-tale. A youngster is feeling unwell, and Grandpa offers to read him 
a story. But hey, stories are for sissies, as the youngster points out. Not this one, assures 
Grandpa. This one is an amusing film with the best part of every fairytale you have ever read 
in it. The standard characters (villain, hero, damsel in distress, etc.) are there, but by no 
means is it a standard story or film. Complete with a gentle giant, Andre the Giant, and 
directed by the best, and only, All in the Family actor who is directing today - Rob 
Meathead Reiner.
Cast: Peter Falk, Andre the Giant, Billy Crystal 
Director: Rob Reiner 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
Saturday, February 27
Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
One of the best action films ever created! This is the film that all the action films copy. This 
could be the best if not for its predecessor, Raiders of the Lost Ark. This story takes place 
before Raiders although it was filmed afterwards. Harrison Ford, of Star Wars fame, is the 
two-fisted, whip-wielding hero of the film trying to save himself, a pretty love interest, a 
young boy, and a whole village. This film is very exciting and definitely worth a look-see. 
Always keep in mind the quote from the first movie, I hate snakes!
Cast: Harrison Ford, Kate Capshaw, Ke Huy Quan, Amrish Puri 
Director: Steven Spielberg 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
Sunday. February 28
Dirty Harry
The original and the best of that wacky justice-distributing police officer, played by none 
other than Clint Eastwood. Outfoxed by a maniacal killer, Harry decides to take the law into 
his own hands, with one of the most exciting, edge-of-your-seat climaxes youll find in any 
film. Double great movie. See it again and again.
Cast: Clint Eastwood, Harry Guardino, John Mitchum, Reni Santoni, Andy Robinson 
Director: Don Siegel 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
COMPILED BY RONALD G. REDMOND
ence, climbing onstage at the end of the song. 
Its a bit of a shock to see what you assume is 
just some drunk gyrating in front of the stage 
climb up and start singing.)
The rest of both sets included songs from the 
bands two albums (Boylan Heights as well as 
Darker Days, their first) as well as a few 
covers - George Harrisons Photograph for 
the under 21 show, Rod Stewarts You Wear 
It Well, Bon Jovis Wanted Dead or Alive 
(yes, really), and Alice Coopers Eighteen, 
for the old folks  that fit surprisingly well 
into the bands own material, as well as pro
viding a fantastic ending to a fabulous concert. 
Truly amazing stuff, and all you people in the 
comer should be completely ashamed of your
selves.
Scruffy The Cat had the unenviable task of 
following the Connells for both shows, but 
they held up well, providing a huge, cheery 
dose of their punk-crossed rockabilly. In short, 
Scruffy is the quintessential bar band  any
one can appreciate the energy and quality of 
their music regardless of their sobriety.
Charlie Chesterman, the bands lead singer 
and frontman, did a great job entertaining the 
crowd, proving unflappable despite various 
technical difficulties including a highly reluc
tant guitar.
The band has the ability to become instantly 
at home on any stage, and, by doing so, to make 
the audience feel at home. This instant cama
raderie might be the reason Scruffy The Cat 
has such a good reputation for their live shows, 
but such a poor showing on vinyl. The music 
is good  hell, its great! but the friendli
ness doesnt record well. (Their new half-live 
EP may remedy this problem.) Regardless, 
they put on a tight rocking set that provided a 
great close to an already great show.
It was great. You guys in the comer really 
missed something special this time.
Manon stars the 
beauty of the 
French countryside
continued from page Dl
However, the film belongs to neither Mon
tand nor Beart. At the center of Manon of the 
Spring re Daniel Auteuils magnificent per
formance as Ugolin, Soubeyrands nephew. 
Auteuil brings a touching humanity to a part 
that could have been played as a buffoon. His 
Ugolin is an innocent, sometimes comical, 
pathetic figure unaware of the consequences 
of his actions. The scenes depicting Ugolins 
desperate love of Manon, as he chases her 
through the forests and later sews a piece of her 
ribbon to his chest, and his reaction at her 
rejection are the highlights of the film.
At the heart of the picture is Marcel Pagnols 
story of justice, which Berri masterfully un
folds before the audience. As Cesar Soubeyrand and Ugolin move toward their inevitable 
collision with fate the film becomes dark and 
brooding, yet Berri does not allow it to become 
stagnant. As with the greatest of Greek trage
dies, the decline and fall is foreshadowed but 
the manner in which the characters come to 
face their fate is never disappointing. Over the 
films two hours, Pagnol and Berri serve 
enough plot twists and turns to keep the audi
ence riveted to the screen until the final reve
lation.
Manon of the Spring stands as a lesson to all 
of those who claim to produce mature enter
tainment. With its classic theme of the force of 
destiny, its unforgettable characterizations 
and striking cinematography, Manon of the 
Spring stands to become a classic in its own 
right. This simple but beautiful film about the 
lives and trials of the common people of a time 
long gone by is perhaps the most captivating 
picture that has been shown on these shores in 
the past year.
Mary Barnes 
treats insantiy 
with sensitivity
By ERIKA PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor
At the Kresge Theatre on Friday night, W 
David Edgars Mary Barnes premiered.
The show is the story of a schizophrenic 
nurse, her descent into herself, and her 
emergence as a new, whole person. 
Very well acted, the show is an often 
shocking, always revealing portrait of a 
controversial therapy for schizophren
ics.
Senior Carina Fisher, as Mary Barnes, ^ 
brings vividness and life to Marys 
haunting illness. She succeeds admira
bly in shifting from Mary, the forty year 
old nurse at the onset of the play, to the 
reborn, emotionally younger Mary the 
artist at the close of the'play. Fisher, 
incredibly, is able to sustain the emo
tional intensity of the character through
out the show, first evoking empathy in 
the audience for her helplessness and 
plight, and then joy for her perseverance, 
determination, and success.
At the onset of the play, as the residents 
move into an East London house, the 
audience is unsure which of the players 
are therapists, and which are patients.
The confusion emphasizes the fine line 
between sanity and insanity, and illus9 
trates peoples shifting place on that 
line.
The players, especially Dennis Rees as 
Eddie, and Serena Berne as Brenda, ac
curately convey the feeling of under
standing and tolerance which was the 
underlying philosophy of the real 
Kingsley Hall. According to the theo
ries of Joseph Berke (portrayed as Eddie 
in the show), the schizophrenic must be 
permitted to act irrationally until they 
feel they no longer need their insanity to 
protect themselves against the outside 
world, and especially their families.
The cast successfully creates the at
mosphere of a family household, com
plete with rivalries, tenderness, and ten
sion. The actors, especially Tom Prior as 
Douglas, Ron McClelland as Hugo, 
Dennis Rees as Eddie, and N. Ellen Wolf 
as Beth, play off one another to effec
tively define each characters role in the 
household community. The group suc
ceeds in conveying the fluid quality of 
the roles while making clear enough 
distinctions to avoid confusion.
Technically the show ran smoothly, al
though some of the pauses in the second 
half, which were meant to convey the 
passing of years, did not seem to fulfill 
their purposes in every case. The set, a 
cutaway of a decrepit house, was de
signed cleverly to include a stairway and 
an upstairs level, where Marys room is 
located. The height of the second level, 
however, did force people in the front 
rows to look up at a mildly uncomfort
able angle. The costumes, finally, were 
generally accurate to the period, al
though further, even minor costume 
changes in the second half might have 
helped to emphasize the passing of 
years.
Overall, the production, acting, and 
script provided for an entertaining and 
thought-provoking evening. The show 
continues at the Kresge Theater Febru
ary 23-27 at 8 pm, and on February 27, at
2 pm. Tickets are available through the 
CMU Box Office, located in the main 
lobby of CFA, open Monday through 
Friday, noon to 5 pm. Call 268-2407 for 
ticket information.

---------------------------------------------------

February 23, 1988The TartanPage D3
Before Polaroid hired him, he was in an action series
Dont answering machines make you mad? I 
dont think any one person is so important that 
he/she has to have an answering machine at 
their place of residence. The only place one 
has to have an answering machine is at their 
place of work. Answering machines have 
become status symbols, something that people 
Cave in their homes (and, most recently, their 
dorms) to make themselves look important. 
They also have think they have to be humorous 
on them; that they cant be funny anywhere
else. (Most of the people that own them 
probably can't be funny). A piece of advice to 
those that do own them: Keep the message 
simple.
One guy that really kept the message simple 
was Jim Rockford in the hit series The 
Rockford Files. He didnt feel the need to put 
in airs with his message, although most of the 
callers usually had odd requests or proposi
tions. One thing I always wanted to see was 
one of those messages lead into a show. It 
never did, though, and thats too bad. Some of 
those phone messages would have been fun to 
follow through.
Those calls to Jim Rockfords machine were 
included in one of the finest detective shows 
jever. The characterizations of Rockford, 
Rocky, Angel, and Gandy - among others - 
were top-notch. Many people may think of 
this as a typical detective show that constantly 
shows car chases and fights and whatnot. It is 
true that most of the detective shows that were 
created at this time showed gratuitous vio
lence scenes geared to please 12-year olds (i.e. 
Starsky and Hutch), but The Rockford Files 
was an exception. Jim did get his butt kicked 
quite often, but his characterization was su
perb.
The show starred James Gamer as Rockford, 
the gruff private eye who was just released 
from San Quentin. (Of course, he was impris
oned for a crime he didnt commit.) Gamers 
slightly grizzled features and semi-country 
drawl made him the perfect actor for this role. 
You can see the real-beef guy coming out in 
him. That mug of his was also perfect for the 
punching practice many hoods felt obliged to 
perform at idle moments. I think the fact that 
Jim was a human punching bag was directly 
related to the fact that the show was top-notch. 
Hey, you didnt see Dan Tanna getting 
punched out regularly, did you?
The other actors on the show were all excel
lent. Noah Berry played Joe Rockford, Jims 
feisty, semi-retired father. Jim called Joe 
Rocky, which makes him the best character 
with that name. (Rocky Balboa and Rocky J. 
Squirrel are second and third respectively.) 
Joe Santos portrayed Sergeant Dennis Becker, 
the LAPD officer that Jim consulted with. I 
use consulted for lack of a better word, be
cause it was more of a case of Becker yelling 
at Rockford. (I still dont understand why 
Santos character treated every one of Jims 
requests like it was pulling teeth.) Gretchen 
Corbett was Beth Davenport, a defense attor
ney who was the hottest lawyer on TV until 
Veronica Hamel came to Hill Street Blues and 
Jill Eikenberry appeared on L.A. Law. (Hey, 
Ill be a CMU alumnus soon. All I have to do 
now is be five-five and bald and I can get a girl 
like her.)
AH the above actors were great, but the best 
regular on the show was Stuart Margolin. He
U2O1CgEc1T vOCgEc Ec \1Cgc vMSAgO1 & 
3ETgCgO1T s0S1rSAP kEA2M aE1AU
present
Noam Chomsky
MIT Professor, and author of:
 The Political Economy of Human Rights 
American Power and the New Mandarins
 Towards A New Cold War
 The Fateful Triangle: The United States, 
Israel, and the Palestinians
speaks on
Central America 
The Next Phase
Wednesday, February 24 
8:00 PM
Porter Hall 100, CMU
Funded by Students Activities Fee
played Angel Martin, a shady associate of 
Rockfords. Margolin usually plays a 
schmuck, and his character on this show was 
no exception. His mealy-mouthed manner of 
speech made the scared-rabbit lines he spoke 
all the more convincing. Margolin won two 
Emmys for his work, which makes me feel 
good. All I have to do now is keep being a 
schmuck and maybe Ill win two Emmys.
The best actor on The Rockford Files was not 
a regular, however. It was Rita Moreno, the 
only actor to win an Oscar, Emmy, and a Tony 
along with being the best host The Muppet 
Show ever had. Morenos portrayal of a ex
prostitute trying to walk the straight and nar
row was both sensitive and thoughtful. An 
interesting touch was the silent but wellknown love she had for Jim. Her love for him 
was shown in her Emmy-winning perform
ance The Paper Palace, in which she took a 
bullet for him. (A message to all you girls 
whom I secretly love: I aint takin a bullet for
any one of you.)
Other detective shows have had fine actors - 
Columbo, for example - but the thing that set 
The Rockford Files apart from the rest is its 
great combination of action and characteriza
tion. The character development of each char
acter was excellent, not lots of noface villans 
who get their kicks destroying Buicks. That is 
not to say that the Buick destruction was bad, 
however. The action on this show was fantas
tic. Some of the best car chases occurred in this 
show, and the fights were legendary. (I think 
the joke should go I went to a fight and an 
episode of The Rockford Files broke out.) 
The Rockford Files was on at 9:00 on Friday 
during its run dates, and can be seen at random 
times on late-night TV under the name Jim 
Rockford: Private Investigator. If you dont 
want to stay up late to see if its on, use your 
VCR to record it. And to make sure you record 
it, leave yourself a message on your answering 
machine. No one ever calls anyway.
this week
carnegie melln drama presents 
tennesee williams
cat on a hot tin roof
tue. february 23 at 5:30 and 8:30 pm 
wed. february 24 at 7:30 pm
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama 
For more information call: 268-2407
Delta Tau Delta's New Brothers
Ed Tan Kent Suhrbier Evan Kennedy
Dan Bergad Todd Nagy Bo Esrcy
Les Grinnings Jimmy Baker Rich Wagner
Eric Heiman Jon Eisner Chris Shields
Spacer Blake Welton Dave Polkis 
Doron Gartner Andy Milmoe 
Darren Weidenman
17saves$o ne3 40S33uuu to0$aho Pa rkeRPovuuu todso3dei3 eP bg - 1,4
Great Expectations  U'here precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art and at affordable pricesWITH THIS COUPON mm mm "|save $2.00 on a
Precision Haircutcomplete with shampoo * Mow ityieI
FebajaryMjge^_________- - -  - - - 
0GftJIT
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED' 
Great Styles Start at.
NO I fcPPOWMf fsi 
NfCl SSAP>
PRfClSON HAIRCUfTff?S237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanFebruary 23,1988
Forget Dole and Dukakis - Joe Bob for President!
After receiving three million spontaneous 
letters last week asking me to run for 
President, I've decided to reconsider my 
position, but ONLY if the American public* 
gets down on its hands and knees, pants like 
a dog, and begs for it.
Heres my platform. Actually its not a 
whole platform. Its more like a six-foot 
springboard in the baby pool, but its all I 
got:
Joe-Bob Goes : 
to the Drive-In 
1. I would be the first President who never 
leaves his trailer house all day long. This 
means Id never make a speech, never pre
empt prime-time programming, and never 
grin like a hyena at the Army-Navy game. I 
wouldnt sign anything or talk to anybody. 
Everything you own is safe with me.
2.1 would be the first President to offer a 
complete SEXUAL disclosure statement, 
including every time Ive THOUGHT 
ABOUT doing it with Donna Rice, Jessica 
Hahn, Fawn Hall (This part is 27 single 
spaced pages), and Lucille Ball. (Like I say, 
Its FULL disclosure, no matter who it 
embarrasses.) It would include a full list of 
the names and addresses of the girls who I 
NEVER CALLED BACK, a. well as the 
ones that successfully manipulated me into 
marryin em.
3. Free cable TV for poor people.
4. I would be the first President to think of 
the government as one big bankruptcy court. 
All the elected officials are the guys with 
bankrupt business. All the government 
employees are about to lose their jobs cause 
the high sheriffs cant pay em. Im the
bankruptcy judge. I call in people like Ted 
Kennedy and say, Okay, Ted, a hundred 
bucks for food each month is plenty. One 
twenty five for utilities. Forty for gas. Cut 
back on the beer. Come see me again if you 
have medical needs. And  oh yeah  
everybody working for you is fired. IN 
ONE YEAR I put the country into Chapter 
Eleven and balance the budget.
5. How to solve the Middle East crisis:
Give the Palestinians South Dakota. We 
arent using it. We dont need it. And its an 
IMPROVEMENT over what they got.
6. I would close down Washington and get 
a cheaper facility  maybe Heritage Village 
USA.
7. Heres my idea of a cultural exchange. 
Take a Sandinista guy whos thinkin of 
going Commie. Pay his way to Moscow, 
Leningrad, and Vladivostok. Make sure he 
sees all the sights. Now pay his way to 
Vegas, Disney World, the Grand Canyon, 
and Genos Topless on Harry Hines Boule
vard in Dallas. Explain the difference to 
him. Send him home and FORGET 
ABOUT HIM.
Thats all I can think of right now. If you 
want my views on any other topic of 
pressing national importance, write to Joe 
Bob For President Committee, P.O. Box
33, Dallas, TX 75221. If I receive at least 
five million more letters in the next week, I 
will definitely file for the Idaho Primary. I 
will be runnin, on the Least Common 
Denominator ticket.
Speaking of politics, my Secretary of 
Defense has got to be Carl Weathers, better 
known as Action Jackson in the greatest 
exploding-Camaro flick of the last ten years. 
Were talkin some serious stuntwork, 
including Kung Fu, Ninja Fu, Bimbo Fu,
The Room Reservation procedure for the 1988- 
1989 academic year has been scheduled to be 
held during the 2nd and 3rd weeks of March 
1988.
All current residents who wish to be considered 
for University housing for the 1988-1989 aca
demic year must pay a $100 Housing Deposit 
between February 1st and February 25th, 1988. 
This deposit is to be paid directly to the Cashier's 
Office in Warner Hall. Please be sure to save 
your deposit receipt from the Cashier's Office 
since it will be necessary to show it in order to 
participate in the room reservation process in 
March.
During the month of February, we will be distrib
uting a brochure to all rooms in the residence 
halls outlining the specific room reservation 
procedures, as well as the appropriate dates and 
times for participation.
If you have any questions as we begin planning 
for next year, please feel free to contact us in the 
Housing Office.
Flying Taxi Fu, and, most terrifying of all, 
Vanity Fu. She sings not one but TWO torch 
songs, pops her top, shoots up with Horse, 
and wears a dress that shes in danger of 
falling out of at any moment. This has 
absolutely no effect on Action Jackson, 
whos too busy trying to destroy the Deetroit 
auto empire of Craig T. Nelson, whos not 
only an evil industrialist, but a pusher, a 
murderer, a karate expert who likes to beat 
up Chinese guys for the fun or it. The father 
of a psychotic mass murderer, a serial 
WIFE-killer, and the kind of guy who would 
promise a young impressionable girl a 
Motown contract and then not deliver. Hes 
such a meanie that he actually kind of 
LIKES Action Jackson, the man trying to 
stop him, because Action once ripped his 
psycho sons arm out.
Were talking drive-in classic. Number One 
on the Best of 88 list.
Five breasts. Sixteen dead bodies. Knifethrough-hand. Twenty-story falling fireball 
stunt. Harpoon-through-heart. Knifethrough-throat. Barbecued ninja. Three 
motor vehicle chases. Three exploding cars, 
with five crashed. Exploding yacht. Explod
ing apartment. Exploding character actor. 
Gazebos-in-a-jar. Gratuitous no arms and 
legs jokes. Gratuitous Flintstones. Karate
i
I 
I 
I 
t 
I 
i
ini
Fu. UPS Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Sharon Stone, for a gratui
tous shower and a dress with no back in it; 
Bill Duke, as Captain Armbruster, Actions 
boss, for saying, I need to be SURE your 
Action Jackson days are behind you; Sonny 
Landham, as a weird Indian drug-pusher 
dude with a knife the size of Montana, for * 
getting knocked out of one window, across 
an alley, and into ANOTHER window; 
Chino Fats Williams as Kid Sable, desk 
clerk at the sleaziest hotel in Deetroit; 
Vanity, for singing a song called Undress, 
acting it out, and saying I expected a 
standing ovation; Craig T. Nelson, Vanitys 
drug connection, for saying Youre getting 
one, AND for a great scene where he offs * 
his wife in mid-kiss AND for a scene where 
he explains how Murder is a TOOL; 
Robert Reneau, the kid that wrote this 
sucker; Craig R. Baxley, the stuntmantumed-director that brought Action Jackson 
to life; and Carl Weathers, for losing his 
lieutenants stripes, his badge, his car, and 
his wallet, but remaining the one, the only 
Action Jackson. *
Were talking some Sequel Fu. This may 
even be the first year since 83 that 
Schwarzeneggers had some competition.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.

sSBu dO zLO c
The next PkoneTkarT Staff Meeting 
will be on March 1st 
at 8 PM 
in The Tartan Office
lSSl CMUComputer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE ps00@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
The CMU Computer Store and 
PC Repair now have evening 
hours: 
Mon. & Thurs. 10:00 a.m. - 
7:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, Wed., & Friday 
10:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
(These hours will remain in effect until further notice)

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage D5
TECH STREET, FREW STREET, AND 
SCHENLEY DRIVE (between Tech St. and 
Schenley Bridge) WILL BE CLOSED TO 
ATT. TRAFFIC FROM 6AM TO 9AM ON 
THESE DATES. SORRY FOR ANY 
INCONVENIENCE THIS MAY CAUSE.
The connections of the universe... 
at Forbes Gallery this week
ab lu \,t:
Special to Diversions
Tonights opening at the Forbes Gallery will feature the work of artists Paul Rydzewski 
and Christine Liotta. Both of these painters will be showing drawings, prints and 
photographs in addition to paintings.
tEM0TgO1CgEcP j1US sgM0TS
Paul Rydzewski wants his work to be simple, practical and pragmatic as he tries to 
convey the complicated idea of interconnectedness within the universe. Because he does 
not want to get lost in convolutions with this concept, he previously compensated by 
making his work flat and simple. He used symbols, primarily that of the solar system, 
which had always interested him and which obviously pertained to ideas about the 
universe. However, last semester, Rydzewski began looking at primitive art and taking 
note of the patterns and symbols which are used there in a basic, intuitive way. This new 
style of painting, he remarks, also began with a fascination for drawing and the ideas and 
concepts I had been exploring there. I learned a lot through drawing.
The ideas Rydzewski started in drawing led him to reading and researching, confirming 
his idea that all art is a search as he began to explore the art of other cultures and how they 
use their symbols. I want to adapt their use of symbolism to a practical, simple way of 
seeing things, he explains. Aborigine works and Moslem temples have also led 
Rydzewski to the discovery of pattern as an inherently beautiful thing which could also be 
used as a symbol. The pattern in my work is definitely not just decorative, he states. I 
want myself and the viewer to be able to get something out of the juxtaposition of the 
pattern and the symbols.
Rydzewskis study of primitive, instinctual art has inspired him to work in a more 
spontaneous way which he feels is akin to Zen. With the painting now, 1 go into it with 
just pattern without a clear idea of how its going to look. Its not pre-meditated, I let the 
painting dictate what will happen with no preliminary drawings or anything. The painting 
is the drawing.
Rydzewskis influences also include Miro, for his use of symbols, Picasso for his 
integration of symbol usage with incredible formal awareness, Klee, Gottlieb and 
Gorky.
While Rydzewski remarks that he is constantly struggling with the difficulties of
resolving color, he feels that his work is a change for the better. He is more concerned with
formal issues rather than becoming too heavily laden with content. I want to concentrate
more on just letting the painting go rather than what I want to say. I want them to be subtle.continued on page D13
The Toolie Handbook: A guide for those 
who know where their slide rule is
TBI Literary Agency
3400 South Park Road 
Pittsburgh, PA 15102 
(412) 854-4951
The Winning Aproach
ab ut Fd \n\uff
Tartan News Editor
In the same vein as the Official Preppy Hand
book comes a book for the inhabitants of Wean 
and Hamerschlag - Toolies: The Official 
Handbook of Engineers and Applied Scienf&S.
The author, professional engineer Stephen 
Clark, makes it no secret that this book is 
written for college engineers. In fact, Chapter
4 is a list of 30 top toolie schools. (Carnegie 
Mellon weighs in eighth in the Excellent tool 
schools that look like excellent tool schools.)
But unless you get your kicks by reading 
college catalogs, youll find that the most 
#>ring section of the book.
Instead, if youre looking for the humor, turn 
immediately to what can be found in any book 
of the Official Handbook genre: the Quiz. 
Though The Toolie Aptitude may not accu
rately measure your ability to wear plaid, it can 
be good for a couple of chuckles.
For example, the multiple choice answers for 
the question Define A Light Day are a) A 
^rnple of phone calls, check the mail, a little 
lunch, then take off the rest of the day and play 
golf; b) The opposite of a dark and gloomy 
day; c) Just guessing here, butanything less 
than about a 500 pound day; d) 
16,000,000,000 miles.
Answer d) the distance travelled by light in 
twenty-four hours, is the predominant toolie 
response.
^So clearly, this book is not for the average 
mass-market paperback reader. Only if punch
lines that involve terms like Significant fig
ures, negligible transients, or cantilever 
structures, can put a smile on your face will 
you enjoy Toolies.
LOCAL LITERARY AGENT BRINGS 
NEW YORK TESTED TALENT 
TO 
PITTSBURGH
We are an aggressive Literary Agency looking for manuscripts and book ideas to represent to top national publishers. 
(Fiction - Non-fiction - Trade - Technical - Screenplays) 
Why feel out of touch when you can get results withLocal Personal Service
TheTom BirdInstitute
Too much of the book is void of this type of 
wit. Toolies is preoccupied with making fun of 
Artsy-Crafties. While some of the stere
otyping is entertaining - like the section on 
partial credit answers - most of it is overdone 
for a book that purports to be a handbook for 
engineers.
Toolies manages to make use of every other 
engineering clich known to mankind. Noth
ing is sacred: the metric system, clipboards, 
plaid clothing, and the CRC Handbook, to 
name a few.
So even if fewer than four of your classes are 
in Wean, Toolies is worth reading.
fmS 12CmEA Ee The Toolie Handbook 
gc mgP c1C2A1T m1ygC1Cd

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTYby Berke BreathedFunded by S.D.C.
&Pf\Ce YOURSELF: BARBRA 5TREISANP !S PLAYING rookie 
WITH PON JOHNSON
1 REALIZEWHY TVE BEENACT1N SOPECULIARLATELY\ *---%
{X Ly
t-u
f &S.P\P Ce\ YOOURCO&\FOR SELF-HELP BOOK TO HELP ME COPE WITH MY MIP-LIFE 5NIT
AREN'T THEY WONPERFUL ?A VERITABLE 
TOWER OF pSYCHOMB3Le /
my bOOPNESS, rr'S&REAT TO LIVE IN AN A6E WHERE THE 
EMOTIONALLY PlSCOMBOULATEP CAN 50 EXPERTLY TREAT 
THEMSELVES^
WHAT, OH WHAT, MOST OUR ANCESTORS HAVE PONE ?'
FULL COLOR IN THE TARTAN?
THANK 600PNE55 FOK AU. THE PSYCHOBFWLE SELF HELP AVAILABLE . THESE CERTAINLY ARE TOUbH TIMES FOR PEOPLE TO COPE WITHRbHT HOCU EASY THEY MOST HAVE HAP TTINTHE OCP PAYSCIVIL WARS ' PESTILENCE .' RLA6VE ' MASSIVE STARVATION ' SLAVERY/ INPIAN ATTACKS / MANEAVN6 BEARS ' EMOTIONALLY, , fNJSTVE BEEN A
PICNIC''
HEY'THEY MOVEP COSBY TO TVESPAYS AT Et&HT/ 1 WASVMLVFVX A
mKS
1. RED
2. TERRACOTTA
3. ORANGE
4. YELLOW
5. MAIZE
6. GREEN
7. AQUA-GREEN
8. COPENHAGEN BLUE
9. INDIGO
10. BLUE-VIOLET
11. PURPLE
ATTENTION...ALL PEOPLE INTERESTED IN HAVING 
WORK PRINTED IN THE TARTAN BUT DONT WANT 
ANY OBLIGATION TO MAINTAIN A STRIP...THIS 
UPCOMING EVENT IS FOR YOU!!!!
Parodies should be original take-offs of existing (or not-so-existing) motion pictures. It's really up to 
you, just be sure it fits in a box 3" wide and 5" tall (or as close as possible) to prevent having to re
duce the full color originals. Please try to have your creations in the Tartan office, room 50 Skibo 
by March 1st (after mid-semester break). If you have any questions please call GRANT at ext. 4534 
or leave a message at the Tartan ext. 2111. GOOD LUCK!

---------------------------------------------------

5cosf< F,dTTb1o9
nTFeusC G-o,/v& o-E 
Wf+y's ,r so _Vx1
o Zv:Q
r :rr'3 >
CHAOSI
m! tr's 
GoNCl ,
2.J2v 6XpA ^j>, 
T-,4cS '_S 
Re ALLY OMC Y oroE
7~t-//rJCr T~t+/*rT T^HEf 
COLLI. D Oo THAT 
i^JocA^. O ge 
\ P^eyg^^AJior.,. >
$8OVFk V
HAT?\Sot?rv, HorJey. mm )wet,u, i nice: a / < *bro<jght the VBot \MoT Tri TVPe (VU/L-lTTLe HARP 1 CoPSf PtD  A 
VoO'Re , To 66T 572Hto/%\ *&CK KJoc) AkdA MISS MOcH?A
fmLm.TaCp \ppAAp ? 
UAI r^o 6ARS'
nn* OF SOUP y~~joup SoAP 9gllSrV T' . kTHAT STATUE-. }  teeAuuy, LiTK .KKAN!75, THEV 
^ vt ':g$
Mjfc/ Bf.S pnm -XoCHmk -thatOMe OP To YoOiitSf Gneiss.
iF yoO'K-e otre FiW'SHeo, o ue To ta ice rv^ A Close* look at our Hoopu)iwkik)6 / V-y^Q) Hoopgp HooP-^ >-----GASff i'r's MoAjrvTHe fwffiHsot u)e ptrr vbo i*^ JAtc^>
Enggenlha <*)OXrC\FvR F vAS :d T/b_HOa 
" ^'VvAT 6RCAKI0G Jail/ ^jE.AbP wT8T1VO cri Mes wJece PRiMARiL.y A&AlWSxJXfY^ZtoTMUS VbFsdf9(s 
\ \oe have
v ITHet?l6HT p g EA TURS.P
 ^eaJTe C.' HIM. Jw$ w\'j3S \> y JdK Lks.
kpvR:u/o u THlMK Hfu, MAK 1M T/8T..TQm ?^ k-LhC"'N^ \ ffc Th6
w omTTKTT7o
ce A/ar cadsa
FEATrvH >Tr#**/*E - oJ >7hIHfmg g
e*r?f rzz^i^'3 HEAT 
RESISTANT
Zfo'Ctr'70Kt f
Y/Ho AWoiOS/ 
Nor Af^/
FuAM^euc. x Do/^j r L-/K^ 
lT~. XT Z-^o<s
L << A (SAO 
ag e10OE2Cb lP2Vc2o
)3eAxp-,f
DOT3
/OH, | IXlKMC THE RoCK\/r A 'yl Jov<es ARe CecoHiiOfrilL'j
F ;
Mi *WI -'
sffinnns neu? adventuresnMMH
By Eva Sandor
Joilci X need your help * Ta)ell, Vies around ^ He was , buf X 4Wk fenou) Hoe 'hmdl ^3youre^e deepfef-fi>(;r\t F u)i>h some (o<ah-pro^ru> i-fV)^'re ea+rncj livt tea. bags, F is o</er, buf X SWII sous  iSi^Sxi5# #TTvaHx-Wari ar*ky 4ypGS| 5mok/^g Mazo/a., sbo<rHKq j f Pete> rk#li AU.!! "
- " a;eedsm^Vie cV>ar>ge.Ji_^2
e success of hs NwsM named pante Osmond a.^\dPete (jeH\al. l^eu're imrh? some 
really weird sHc-PP, a^d airad Thicker mioht Sinrf 
UEpI P2cfTE-ESgA aTTna 2Okn Waterboifle sl^ot
Oolnat.are wen 
doing ?
Gc&mic Jake
F1AUP 
at s<5 
"Thatch, w^ere
iLu^ 1O ESpg bBhjf \> jRN 9Fx ECCJw f6 L ijpufB H aE #5 $Z"o ^^^o uFpo XDYxo usxo H Mns WICTHCOMING... M*teY ALWA'f A GIFTPh/egR3^1?rri(3 aHiin a 
*d
IS51W2

---------------------------------------------------

Freddy Flashback & Max
cnA
(Snf it: but
Cefnem
\ -starbr
eSp\pf\?<vfu/aS
v h y if~ f'A J V0C( 'r)QC*'a'
-j2^^ -f/a^fq back. Q'd 
-Hburfferf My bdtf I Mo r
-fifiibback ^.cne, (AV)h\ ftW....
I umSi
A^P 1 |eacnei\
) -to a<e+ out
-hne -Fla^bc^ 
N.____X(M&viUS / y
no cf / //
*S&
\n
ie. UVTfC

---------------------------------------------------

Overload 
By Bob JenkinsBy Doug Lamperski
SO - HOW DO YOU 
LIK^MY PAINTING?
71COLORS AR 
A LITTLE OOPWVwxv/e
gETSA8gS.
lyeo^i Hiink wesh
xi/t (rrfellto^nf ^
HftU fVcA's 
IA L0AD<?Fi
TMATS BUNN'STl-UEY 
L.OOKGD ALRiGHT wa/ 
I MV'
Kli-T(C TRAV.
r-^ 54 J51
perner

---------------------------------------------------

iNVINCIBLE aGNES
BY rROSEsLATHERY
WSKimim
ngi

f?
n
o
W *jp All crrH6& ^MiU, tyr TH flNR|?Uf:2 iM ^>tVfiXtitet ijuM w ML rtfltfeidftW HDC f
O
H0AL

sABINFE
sTABLEAR0VING
MARIEANT0INETTE
IMPIDARNSRIN
RI0sADAGELACE
KN0T1IICEITER
SANITARYCAMERA
P0PSWAR
D0CENTFILTERED
ICANsINTERA
VERD0pENSSTAN
ELITEN0NIST
R0BRIEDWARDLEE
T0RIEDli :0NERS
SUGARYsCADs
collegiate crossword
These are the answers to 
last week's puzzle.
I .
1234516789Ybn1213
141516171920121122
2324_
27
29303132333435
373839
4042
45mssm49
54K56
57i
cn
oo1f
CT>
o16263I646!:
O
a
(g)Edward Julius Collegiate CW8714
ACROSS55Soldiers24 Opera ---56Ancient region of25 Loud-voiced Trojan1--- of strengthAsia MinorWar figure6Add to, as a story57Certain exam answer27Baseball hall-of-9Horse or car58Here: Fr.famer (2 wds.)14Five books of Moses59Mongrels28----square15Flightless bird Well's partner60Handbill29 Term of endearment1661Pasture sound30 Fury17Fearless62Anchor position31"--- Joey"18Soak63Asterisks33 War casualty19Pitcher's statistic64Building addition34 Results of Binet20S.A.G. member65Food fishestests21Small ---35Enthusiast22Work assignmentDOWN36Prefix for metric23Of the chest cavity38Infants25Wheat varieties1Up (2 wds.)41Moral26Central Calif, city2Olympics symbol44Bandleader Louis,28Golf shot3Muse of poetryand family32Applying an incor4Taste with pleasure45 Hodgepodgesrect name to5Well-known constel46Elevate in rank37--- Hornblowerlation (2 wds.)47 Hairlike pro-39Flea market find6Double-dealingjections40Not speaking well Concerning (2 wds.)7Punishes48One who comforts428Jury ---50Part of C.Y.O..43Housecleaning aid9Traveler's document51Prefix for mural(2 wds.)10Having wings52Lustrous45Ebb11Polite53 Reacts to something49In a rush12Happeningshocking54Of a central line13Takes five55Ridicule
|H|n

---------------------------------------------------

lATENIGHT AT GMU
|| FROM MONDAY; FEBRUARY 29, TO 
WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 13, CARNEGIE MELLOWS BUGGY 
TEAMS WILL BE PRACTICING ON TECH 
AND FREW STREETS. THESE PRACTICE 
SESSIONS NORMALLY RUN FROM MID
NIGHT TO APPROXIMATELY 3AM.
STUDENTS MAY DELAY YOUR CAR FOR 
UP TO FIVE MINUTES AND ASK YOU TO 
DIM YOUR LIGHTS AND DRIVE SLOWLY 
IN ORDER TO CLEAR THE ROAD AND EN
SURE THE SAFETY OF ALL THE STUDENTS
:1 \ INVOLVED.
WE ARE SORRY FOR ANY INCONVEN 
| ; IENCE THIS MAY CAUSE YOU.
The Carnegie Mellon Gender Studies ComiMttee
TEMMA KAPLAN
director of the Barnard Center for 
Research on Women
Topic: lECASUNG THE CANON:
INTEGRATMGWOMENS STUDIES 
WITH THE DISCIPLINES
Wednesday, Feb. 24 
4:00 - 6:00pm 
 Porter Hall 225-C
February 23,1988The TartanPage Dll
hTM e.a18 OTy1TMaooo
Fresh from Australia, we have the Church
ab lvR aulFv
Tartan Music Critic
We all know that Australia is full of loud, 
energetic and slightly bizarre people, right? I 
mean, everyones seen the Mad Max movies, 
the silly Energizer Oi! commercial that is all 
over the place on the tube and, thanks to late 
night ESPN, the semi-riot called Australian 
rules football, right? And everyone knows that 
bands that come from Australia have to be loud 
and at least somewhat abrasive, right? I mean, 
look whats been shipped in from Kangaroo 
Kountry - AC/DC, Midnight Oil, and INXS 
(okay, so they aren't that.abrasive anymore, 
but they used to be). So, since the Church hails 
from Down Under, they must be loud and 
 abrasive, and just a bit off keel, right?
Well, not exactly, at least for the first part. 
(They might be wackos in real life, but its 
kinda hard to tell from a slab of vinyl.) What 
the Church play is anything but abrasive, un
less, of course, you consider more ringing 
Rickenbackers to be offensive. (For those of 
you who arent musically inclined, or just 
^ stupid, those are guitars theyre ringing, not 
fighter pilots.) They play nice harmless guitar 
pop, like lots of other bands, stuff that 
wouldnt upset anyone, not even hyperhysterical Miss Gore, who has stopped being hysteri
cal for the presidential campaign and is now 
only moderately disapproving. But I digress 
(oh, yes!).
The unique quality of the Churchs sound is 
f found in what it isnt. It isnt (thats with a 
capital not) abrasive. Not even a little bit. 
(No, it isnt New Age pap either.) The fact is, 
the Church makes music that is smooth with
out losing its texture - the guitars still jangle 
and the beat does something besides keep the
This is the Church, but it doesnt have a steeple.
drummer awake, but the music sounds like its 
filtered through the aural equivalent of a starburst lens. The bright parts of the music are 
still there, and are even emphasized, but the 
rest is kept soft. For those of you who arent 
getting this, think of the Jesus and Mary Chain 
with all their sonic rough edges rounded off, 
and youll have a fairly good idea of what the 
Church sounds like. (For those of you who 
havent the faintest idea of who the Jesus and
Mary Chain are or what they sound like, think 
dreamy pop and try to keep up.)
The strangest part of the Churchs music is 
that its actually interesting. While the songs 
on Staifish (forgot that this was an album 
review, didn't you?) are hampered by the 
occasional stupid lyric - one song is called 
Hotel Womb, a pun that is amusing for about 
five minutes before the song starts - most of 
them provide an adequate dose of ear candy
photo: Caroline Greyshock
despite their inoffensive nature. Some, like 
Spark, even begin to approach a rocking 
status, but most are fairly gentle.
I cant decide whether I like Starfish or not. 
Its a bit mild, yet its that exact feature that 
makes the music appealing. Either way, this is 
a very consistent album with a unique twist 
that deserves at least a short listen by those 
who dont require that their music be loud and 
abrasive.

---------------------------------------------------

The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups 
of students who would like to be considered for residency in 
one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment 
in the Margaret Morrison complex. In order to be eligible for 
consideration as a Special Interest House, a student group must 
have at least eight members and two alternates.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special 
Interest Houses is to encourage situations where the living 
environment complements the learning opportunities of the 
residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined 
by the member-resident are understood and enhanced.
All interested groups must submit an application and schedule an 
interview with the Special Interest House Selection Committee. 
The committees decision will be based on a comparison of the 
educational goals presented and the likelihood of serious 
educational benefit being derived from residency in this type 
of living situation.
Application forms are currently available in the Housing Office.
Application Deadline: 
Friday, February 26th
SUMMER PROGRAMS OFFERED 
BY CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
PARIS 1988  MADRID 1988  GERMANY 1988
Fm1C 1AS bE2 UEgcI CmgP P2MMSAQ Fmb cEC M1rS gC 1 2AE0S1c P2MB
MSAQ VEgc 2P eEA CmASS .SSrP Ec CmS tjn O1M02P 1cU eE2A .SSrP gc 
2AE0S US8STE0gcI bE2A OEMM2cgO1CgEc PrgTTP gc kAScOmo >SAM1co EA 
s01cgPmd
,A1T 0AEegOgScOb T1cI21IS gcPCA2OCgEco eEA ySIgccgcI 1cU gcCSAMSUg1CS 
PC2UScCPo Ec tjn O1M02Po eEA 1TT TS8STP 1yAE1Ud k2TT U1b 0AEIA1Mo 
eg8S U1bP 1 .SSro eEA CmASS .SSrP gc V2cS gc 3gCCPy2AIm
4 OASUgCPo $Y6Yd tEcCgcScb1T yAS1re1PC 1cU T2cOm gcOT2USUd
kRt9 3,>vj 1C ucPCgC2CS t1CmETgW2S gc 31AgP eEA 4 .SSrP
-V2Tb "_'
>jvR 3,>vj 1C >ESCmS ucPCgC2CS gc ECmScySAI eEA 4
.SSrP -V2Tb ^"_'
SPANISH PROGRAM 1C PC2UgE ucCSAc1OgEc1T s1M0SAS gc j1UAgU
eEA 4 .SSrP -V2Tb 4"_'
1Om E8SAPS1P 0AEIA1Mo N OASUgCPo $N"Yd ucOT2USP C2gCgEco AEEM 1cU 
yE1AUo 1cU SO2APgEcPd
sC2UScCP M1b ScAETT gc SgCmSA CmS 3gCCPy2AIm EA 2AE0S1c 0AEIA1MP 
gcUS0ScUScCTbd
j1rS CmgP 1 P0SOg1T P2MMSAd FAgCS EA O1TT 2P eEA USC1gTPd
Modern languages 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412)268-2881 
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION APRIL 1, 1988.
" ncgCP 1C tjno 6 2cgCP 1yAE1U 
sOmET1APmg0P 181gT1yTS CE tjn PC2UScCP  ScW2gAS gc a9 "4Y
EJ3
PSn


EJ
i
:
ua 2 UTM 8SeK.gTO 1U RS.O nOT2ea 
,.g USg 1U RS.O ,.n0Tgv
Now ' you can bring your old Macintosh to the 
CMU Computer Store and well let you trade it in
toward the purchase of a new system unit.
We'll also be selling the Macintosh systems that we take in 
trade. If you've always wanted to own one and thought you just 
couldn't afford it, come in and let us prove you can.
All used equipment will be checked by our service department, and 
will carry a full thirty da\ warranty from the date of purchase.
Hours:
Monday A Thursday 
10:00-7:00 
Tuesday, Wednessday 
and Friday 
10:00-4:30
This program is | 
in effect on a 
trial basis
I
Contact the store at X2636 or stop in for details.
Y)ure bright enough to master 
Cobol and Fortran.

---------------------------------------------------

February 23,1988The TartanPage D13
Writers art 
will show at 
Forbes Gallery 
this week
continued from page D5
Balancing Art and Writing
Christine Liotta, who is minoring in 
creative writing, has also made vast 
changes in her paintings since junior 
year. Previously her work depicted fig
ures with a narrative theme, until she 
decided to paint and write about the same 
themes.  I felt that my old paintings were 
too literal, she comments, I didnt just 
want them to be illustrations. Its hard to 
find a creative balance between writing 
and painting and I wanted both areas to be 
connected.
While Liotta has also devised symbol
ism for her work, she, unlike Rydzewski, 
does not feel that it must be practical, as 
she explains, my work isnt researched, 
its from personal experience. She uses 
the symbol she has derived in an autobio
graphical way by placing it in different 
imaginary, landscape-like, environ
ments. I try to set up a dialogue between 
the symbol and the landscape, she re
marks, and the painting is developed out 
of whether it fits in or if its foreign.
The scraped, rough surface of the paint
ing is an indication as to how Im feel
ing, says Liotta, as is color which is also 
symbolic and used to create an atmos
phere in the work. The sparse environ
ments which are created are not necessar
ily literal landscapes but can be as nebu
lous as a state of mind.
Liottas influences include Egon Shiele, 
Edvard Munch, Arthur Dove, Gottlieb 
and Mark Rothko for his atmospheric use 
of color.
While Liotta remarks that she is never 
really satisfied with her work, she is in 
the middle at this point, adding, I dont 
know whats happening next.
Coming to the Forbes Gallery:
March 2-7, Kathleen Flaherty and
Nadine Silverherg
March 9-14, John Lechner and Sean
Jackson
Surf Nazis has 
narly Wave Fu
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor 
If you had to do something with a large, di
verse, intellectual group of people, where 
would you go?
Yes, thats right - youd go see Surf Nazis 
Must Die at midnight at Kings Court, like The 
Tartan editorial board did.
Response was mixed. Karl Barnhart, Editor 
in Chief, commented that It was boring. But 
there were those who found the film quite to 
their liking. It was everything the title prom
ised, said Features Co-Editor Judy Haraburda.
The film is a low-budget release from Troma 
Inc., the group that brought us classics like 
Class of Nuke 'em High and The Toxic 
Avenger. Just imagine a mixture of Beach 
Blanket Bingo, The Terminator and Mein 
Kampf, and youve got the idea. Its not high 
cinema, but it does have a certain rough charm. 
Art Editor Grant Carmichael, recognized 
expert on low budget movies, said It was fun, 
but it didnt live up to its promise.... It cant 
hold a candle to its predecessor, The Toxic 
Avenger. Still, everybody had a pretty good 
time - well recommend Surf Nazis as a flick 
for the weirdly inclined.
Add water and you 
have Instant Opera
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffer iter
Pittsburghs WQEX/16 will present a pro
gram called Instant Opera on Tuesday, 
February 23rd from 9:30 to 10 pm as part of its 
Tuesday evening In Performance program
ming.
The program is an effort to show viewers a 
more personal and less complicated aspect of 
opera in the tradition that it was performed in 
originally.
Instant Opera features two singers and two 
musicians performing an improvised story 
which incorporates arias by Durante, 
Paisiello, Pergolesi, Scarlatti, and Mozart. 
The costuming and staging of the program are 
informal, and it is performed and filmed in one 
room in an attempt to show a flexibility of the 
opera form.
The musical and artistic director of the pro
gram is Lorenzo Malfatti, an internationally 
recognized opera vocal coach who, although a 
native Pittsburgher, spent most of his early life 
in Italy.
Malfatti is a Professor Emeritus of the Col
lege Conservatory of Music of Cincinnati 
University and currently teaches at Carnegie 
Mellon during the school year as well as in the 
summer at the CMU-sponsored Accademia 
Vocale di Lucca in Italy.
Malfattis idea for Instant Opera began 
while teaching in Europe, and he uses this idea 
in an attempt to help his students become more
FREE LECTURE!
Personal &LPolitical 
TerrorismCanPrayerHelp?"
Jack E. Hubbell 
Lectures on 
Tuesday,March 1 at 
8p.m.
1st Church of Christ, 
Scientist Auditorium 
635Clyde St.,
Oakland
Public is Welcome
Happy Birthday, 
Kevin Sprout!T
aware of the meaning of the Italian songs they 
are singing. I experimented with this idea in 
Italy and decided to try it here, too, Malfatti 
said. His main concern for the program is that 
his performing students learn from their expe
rience, and that the audience can see how en
joyable and fun opera can be.
Instant Opera will star baritone Curt 
Scheib and soprano Amy Hanle, both of 
whom performed with Malfatti last year at the 
Accademia Vocale di Lucca. Both Hartle and 
Scheib are CMU alumni.
Scheib is a member of the Pittsburgh Opera 
Theatre, and recently received a National 
Opera Association Award for his title per
formance in a movie version of Mozarts The
Marriage of Figaro.
Amy Hartle, also a performer with the Pitts
burgh Opera Theatre, recently returned from a 
tour with them and is now residing in Pitts
burgh.
The two musicians of the program will be 
keyboardist Gerald Jennings and WQEXs 
Joe Negri as guitarist. Both are CMU gradu
ates; Jennings teaches at Community College 
of Allegheny County, and Negri is the VJ for 
QEXs In Performance programs.
Instant Opera will complete an evening of 
opera entertainment as it follows a 90-minute 
celebration of the music of Giocchino Rossini 
beginning at 8 pm on In Performance," spon
sored (as always) by Mobil.
The London______
Theatre Program
of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE and the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
at Regents College, Regents Park, London____________
A 2cgW2S E00EAC2cgCb eEA OETTSIS PC2UScCP CE PC2Ub 
.gCm aAgC1gchP TS1UgcI 1OCEAP 1cU UgASOCEAPd vOCgcI PC2Ub 
1cU 0SAeEAM1cOSo P200TSMScCSU yb 1O1USMgO .EArd k2TT 
1O1USMgO OASUgC gP 0AE8gUSU eEA SgCmSA 1 PSMSPCSA EA 1 bS1Ad 
For details and an application, call (914) 337-0700 or write: 
The London Theatre Program, Box BCMU 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y. 10708.
'i'-iitxvVt %mv
-f n,0 88<f #co
b U. S. A. K'0
A RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
V CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 'PHONE:(213) 955-4900

---------------------------------------------------

91Aro UE u mS1A 1 81O22M 
OTS1cSAQ
91 m1! /E2hAS 1TT jvld fmS 
EcTb AS1T .EM1c Tg8SP gc E2A 
mE2PS!
/S1mo CmSAS 1AS 0TScCb Ee 
.EMSc 1C tjno y2C EcTb ge 
bE2hAS OE2cCgcI 5 
OmAEMEPEMSPd
k1gA \1Ub Ee st,fuv 
FgTT CmE2 Ig8SCm CmS 
E00EAC2cgCb CE y1Pr gc CmgcS e1gA 
yS12CbQ
fmgcS m2MyTS PSA81cCo 
f,/ Ee CmS M0gAS
3ASIc1cCQ fmgcrgcI 1yE2C gCQ 
t1TT ^4T" 1cU .ShTT C1Trddd
u 8E.SU CE cS8SA rgPP 1 IgAT 
2ITgSA Cm1c bE2d
tEcIA1C2T1CgEcP
kA1cro VSco V18gSAo VEmc 1cU 
\gG S. >vf F,:!
\E8S s ch s
/E2 m18S cE y1Or y1Cm CEgTSCo 
y2C bE2 O1c 2PS CmS AEEMd FgTT 
mEEr 20 CEMEAAE. PEMSCgMSd 
fmS 3T2MySA
9Sb /2AO1y1
RSC CgMSo 02C bE2A T1PC c1MS 
Ec bE2A 81TScCgcSP!!
VEST .mE gPchC USP01A1CS 
ScE2Im CE PScU 
81TScCgcSP CE S8SAb IgAT 
Ec O1M02P
smEAC EcS
9100b 1TScCgcShP l1b! -u 
rcE. gChP T1CSo y2C gChP CmS 
CmE2ImC Cm1C OE2cCPo AgImCQ'
2cC
aTEcUSP 1AS IAS1C gc .1CSA 
P0EACPd
:STTb
uhM IEgcI CE aEPCEc .gCm bE2d 
l18S
;Fm1C .S cSSU gP gM1Igc1CgEcd
FS m18S CE egcU 1 cS. 8gS. Ee 
CmS .EATUd7
gOm1AU 3d kSbcM1c 
1918-1988
u mS1A vTySW2SAW2S gP yS12Cge2T gc 
V2Tbd u O1chC .1gC CE PSS eEA 
MbPSTed
v a2IP a2ccb k1c
s1A1m
uhM eT1CCSASUo y2C UbgcI CE rcE. 
.mE bE2 1ASd
>
u mE0S mS CmgcrP mS TEErP IEEUo 
ySO12PS u P2AS UEchCd
FS CmS 2c.gTTgcIo
\SU yb CmS 2cW21TgegSUo
lEgcI CmS 2ccSOSPP1Abo
kEA CmS 2cIA1CSe2T;
918S UEcS PE M2Omo
kEA PE TEcIo
FgCm PE TgCCTS;
fm1C .S O1c cE. UE 1cbCmgcIo 
FgCm 1yPET2CSTb cECmgcIo
kEA )2PC 1yE2C 1cbCmgcId
v OE20TS Ee CgASU )2cgEAP
s,/! a2C Mb yE2C .gCm dld 
m1P TSeC MS MgcUTSPP!
\E2cIS \gG1AUP
sEAEAgCgSP .SAS PSC 20 CE ISC 
.EMSc CEISCmSA CE OEcP0gAS 
1I1gcPC MScd
>2PCSA
FS m1U P2Om 1 IEEU CgMSd fEE 
y1U CmSb UEchC TgrS 2Pd
l1GSA
u m18S 1 CSPC gc FS1c 91TT D^YYo 
EE0P u MS1c CmS vU1MPEc 
v2UgCEAg2Md
ZS2P .1P 1c vf, yAECmSAo A10S & 
0gTT1ISo A10S & 0gTT1ISo A1mo A1mo 
A1md
tjn jSc
lgU bE2 rcE. 1 MEUSM M1g 
01U gP PCgOrb Ec CmS ECmSA PgUSQ
lS1A vUMgASA
fm1crP eEA CmS PO1Aed u 2PS gC 1TT 
CmS CgMSd
kd
3dsdK FmE 1AS bE2Q!
;FmEhP 1 eT1C PEyQ!7
;vTT .EAr 1cU cE 0T1b M1rSP 2P 
1TT UgOrmS1UPd7
VEmc Vd EPP -lE. h6D' 
01IS "4
fE 1TT Mb ;)2PC eAgScUPo7 
gcOT2UgcI V & 3
sEMSCgMSP bE2 O1c yS v\ 
y1ySPd vC ECmSA CgMSPo .STTddd 
juva!!
ad
,cS O1c PCgTT ISC 20 U2AgcI 1 
CE2Im 0SAgEU gc TgeSd
k3\aRsfvK >E .18S 01ACb!
gOCEAg1
u .1P .EArgcIo y2C u TEPC CmS 
)Eyd
kASPmM1c lA1M1C
,TSI
FmSAShP Mb PO1AeQ
jbAc1
tjn FEMSc
fmS PTg00SAb PgUS IESP Ec CmS 
E2CPgUS!
l1GSA
FSTTo 1C TS1PC .S CmE2ImC .S 
TEErSU IEEUd
>2PCSA
LN""N 3AEyd sC1CP uu 1M 
ucPCA2OCgEcPK
d ,0Sc )1A Ee 81PSTgcS
"d aScU E8SA
Ld SME8S CSTS0mEcS 0ETS 
.mSc egcgPmSUd
:STTb
lE bE2 AS1TTb m18S CmS AgImC CE 
yS PS21TTb eA2PCA1CSUQ
9Sbo gChP CgMS eEA 1c l/ 
av:!!!
u Cmgcr OEMgcI eAEM ySmgcU 
.E2TU yS M2Om ySCCSA Cm1c 
OEMgcI gc eAEcCd
u UEchC cSSU cE SU2M1O1CgEcd u gP 
1 OETTgUIS PCEEUScC 1C 3gCCd
F1cCSUK ,cS SCA1T1AIS na4Y 
;1C gc CmS :gCOmSc7 OEcOSAC PmgACd 
FgTTo01b 1cb 1ME2cCd t1TT V2Ub @ 
"d
Send submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Info. Desk
\
0
o
o
Due to the sudden  but not quite unexpected  arrival 
of mid-semester break, The Tartan will not be published 
on March 1,1988.
Look for us again on March 8.
TJie 'Tartan wishes Us entire readership 
a pleasant and enjoyable leap-day!!
)
>
>

---------------------------------------------------

The TartanFebruary 23,1988Page D15
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Obsen'atory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
fmS aA18S \gCCTS f1gTEAd Can a little tailor 
defeat two giants? It seems dangerous. It 
seems impossible. But this little tailor has wits 
as sharp as his scissors and a bag full of tricks. 
Aurand Harris comic adaptation of the popu
lar fairy tale is sure to delight the whole family. 
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm. 
Sundays; through March 20.
gy2AS PM1AC ScE2Im CE O1TO2T1CS 
CmS PgGS Ee 1 9bUAEISc 1CEMd
<00;>X V7
uTe
vcU bE2$AS PCgTT PMErgcIQ
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
oAnnouncements
gOm1AU jd tbSAC will have open office hours 
for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, March 1, 
1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
sC2UScC ,My2UPM1c will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
j1Ab a1AcSPd The story of a mentally ill 
woman and her therapist working together to 
conquer her madness through unconventional
0 treatment. Written by David Edgar. Directed 
by Lee Sankowich. Kresge Theatre. 8 pm, 
February 23-27; at 2 pm, February 27.
vc SmgygCgEc Ee 0mECEIA10mP yb vccS 
kgPmySgc focusing on an American way of life. 
Many of the images were taken on U.S. Route 
66. Hewlett Gallery, CFA 1st floor, through 
March 22.
 >EAUEc j1CC1 tT1Ard A retrospective exhi
bition of this conceptual artist, organized by 
the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407
S. Craig St. Through April 10. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
fmASS EEMP .gCm 1 gS.d Three guest 
curators, David Lewis, Louis Mueller and Ann
- Nathan, were invited to each create a room of 
a house. Their only mandate was to utilize 
works made in a craft medium within the 
context of the space. Through April 3. The 
Society For Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman 
Streets, The Strip District. Gallery Hours are
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
EM1c t1CmETgO ,A1CEAbd Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM's Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
uP fmSAS vcbEcS TPS \grS jS ,c t1M02PQ
If you are experiencing attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
a2mT sOgScOS tScCSAK
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm,
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm,
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5
square feet, 10-room, 2 story apartment. 5 
bedrooms, 2 living rooms (22 x 17 and 35 
x 14), 2 bathrooms, kitchen, dining room, 
small office, sun porch, garage, storm win
dows, first floor air conditioned, washer & 
dryer, comfortably suited for 7. $1600/ 
month + utilities. Available beginning of 
May. Call 521-9441 evenings after 8 pm.
....... Services
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
LUST IN 88? Wanderlust that is! You can 
see the U.S., Europe or Asia this summer 
using safe, inexpensive International Youth 
Hostels. Nearly 300 in the U.S. with 5,000 
world-wide. For membership rate informa
tion write: Hostels c/o Pittsburgh A YH, 6300 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 15232, or call 
362-8181, leave message.
EXCLUSIVE SPRING BREAK OFFER!
Order your Spring Break 1988 Survival Kit 
for only $14.95. Kit includes: I survived 
Spring Break silk-screened t-shirt, bever
age wrap, condoms, and Spring Break bonus 
surprise. This is a limited offer. Send check 
or money order with t-shirt size (S-M-L-XL) 
to: Florida Sands Promotions, P.O. Box 
2720, Daytona Beach, FL 32015-2720/ 
(904) 673-4320. Pick up order forms at Ride 
Board, Skibo Hall.
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
PREGNANT? NEED HELP?  Confiden
tial counseling  Free pregnancy test  262-
1220, Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
WORD PROCESSING TYPING  Stu 
dent papers, Resumes, Letters. Can store for 
future use. Reasonable rates. Call Kathy 
(826-0458) weekdays after 5:00 or week
ends.
..............For Sale .............
BOOK SALE AND AUCTION
Book Sale: Saturday, February 27, 2-6 pm 
Sunday, February 28, 12-6 pm 
Auction: Monday, February 29,2 pm 
Location: St. Benedict Academy, 4530 Perrysville Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15229 
Large variety of valuable out of print books 
and ephemera relating to...
Mathematics, Evolution, Geology, Biology, 
Meteorology, Architecture, Religion, Na
ture, Archeology, Autobiography, Sports, 
Physics, Art, Novels, First World War. 
Music, Birds, Second World War. Geogra
phy, Travel, Science & Technology. No text 
books.
KORG POLY6YY SYNTHESIZER
Perfect condition. Must Sell. $500 or best 
offer. Call Tim at x5303
FOR SALE  IBM XT Personal computer, 
monitor, two disk drives, enhanced key
board, $ 1500or best offer. 351 -5930, Ask for 
Gregg.
Miscellaneous . 
$50 FIRST PRIZE: T-shirt design compe
tition for the Carnegie Mellon School of 
Architecture. All CMU students and faculty 
encouraged to participate. Entries are to be 
submitted no later than March 19,1988. 
Details available in the architecture office  
CFA Room 201.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
FvRflK vACgPCPo PO2T0CEAPo SCOdo seeking 
publication and distribution of their work in 
high quality color publication. For informa
tion and application form, write: Morgan 
House, Division of Greater Toledo Publica
tions, Inc., 317 10th Street, Toledo, Ohio 
43624. Enclose name, address (city, state, 
zip), phone number, and non-returnable 
photo or slide of works.
9,jF,:s FvRfl! TOP
PAY! C. I. 121 24th Ave., N. W. Suite 222, 
Norman OK 73069.
STUDENTS NEEDED!!! Local area 
firm requires 25 high-quality students (m/f) 
for market study. Flexible Hours, pay rate 
between $6.35-$8.00/ based on prior experi
ence. Any major may apply. Car needed. Call 
between 12 and 5 pm. 561-0337.
THERES A JOB FOR YOU IN A 
SUMMER CAMP!
The American Camping Association (NY) 
will make your application available to over 
300 camps in the Northeast. Exciting oppor
tunities for college students and profession
als. Positions available: all land and water 
sports, arts & crafts, drama, music, dance, 
tripping, nature, R.N.s, M.D.s, Aides, 
kitchen, maintenance. College credit avail
able. Call or write for application. American 
Camping Association, 43 W. 23rd St., Dept 
(CM), New York, NY 10010, 1-800-777- 
CAMP.
COUNTER HELP WANTED. Full or 
part-time shifts available: 4-10, late night, 
and Friday and Saturday part-time. Starting
rate $3.70. Apply in person. Original Hot 
Dog Shop Inc. 3901 Forbes Avenue.
,Rtvj3ns V,as  Find out what 
opportunities you could be missing out on. 
Pick up a job directory in the Financial Aid 
Office on the 2nd floor of Warner Hall or 
look at the B-Board under Workstudy 
(non-workstudy positions also) on TOPS.
3,sufu,R ,k fvfjRf s3B
tuv\usfsj,Ruf,sd Part and full 
time/ Secure Residential Program. Degree 
optional. Resume: YSTC, 7150 Highland 
Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Housing
LIVE IN THE LAP OF LUXURY in this 
beautiful two bedroom Shadyside apartment 
with an EQUIPPED kitchen, log burning 
fireplace, bay windows, central air condi
tioning and on-site laundry for the low low 
price of $450/mo. + utilities. For more info 
call 462-7316
FOR SALE: Amberson Towers, 5 Bayard 
Road: Wonderful 2 bed, 2 bathroom condo. 
Great view comer unit. Priced $84,900. 
Contact Jill Bolner, 421-9120.
APARTMENT FOR RENT: Squirrel Hill
 1/2 block for CMU  Beeler Street. 
Extremely large 8-room Apartment with 
large living room, log-burning fireplace, 1 1/
2 bathrooms, kitchen, dining room, small 
office, enclosed porch, private backyard, 
garage, several air conditioners, storm win
dows, washer & dryer, carpeting in 3 bed
rooms, comfortably suited for 5. Available in 
May. $1200/ month + utilities. Call 521 - 
9441 evenings after 8 pm.
APARTMENT FOR RENT: 1/2 block for 
CMU, lower Beeler Street. Huge 2500

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16February 23,1988The Tartan
Eventsat 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
S---------------------------------------------------------S24 Wednesday
Movies
j1cEc Ee CmS s0AgcIo Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugolin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
0TEAS bE2A VS.gPm 9SAgC1ISd Jewish Uni
versity Center, 160 N. Craig, at 7:30 pm. All 
you wanted to know about Judaism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required. Kosher dinner available before class 
from 5:30 - 7:30 for $4.85.
U2O1CgEc1T vOCgEc Ec \1Cgc vMSAgO1 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
\S1Ac CE V2IITS! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
s01cgPm f1yTSd The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table
Thursday
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand. Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Art Visiting Artist Lecture.
Designers Rita Marshall and Etienne Delessert (who is also a filmmaker, illustrator and 
painter) speak at 7 pm in Breed Hall, MM.
Special Events
French Table. The Modern Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Serv ice Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall. MM 103. All are welcome.
WRCT Schedule. Live Sports Broadcast: 
Basketball - CMU vs Bethany. Rock Garden, 
live performances taped or received by WRCT 
at 8:30 pm. Group: TBA.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Home game against 
Bethany College at 7 pm.
jSchP a1PrSCy1TTd Away game against Be
thany College at 8 pm.
Movies
j1cEc Ee CmS s0AgcIo Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jean's 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
fmS sS8ScCm sS1To sponsored by AB Films. 
DH2210at6pm,8pm,and 10pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
lS01ACMScC Ee TSOCAgO1T vcU tEM02CSA 
cIgcSSAgcI >A1U21CS sSMgc1Ad James 
Noble, Multiflow Computer, speaks at 3:30 
pm in Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments are 
served at 3:15 pm.
Special Events
WRCT Schedule. Live Sports Broadcast: 
Basketball - CMU vs. Washington and Jeffer
son. Sportsline, WRCT campus sports talk 
show at 8:30 pm. Topic: CMU Hockey Team. 
WRCTs frequency is 88.3 FM.
The Theolog is ucd From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
Sports
jSchP 1cU FEMSchP s.gMMgcId 3vt
Championships at John Carroll. Time TBA. 
FEMSchP a1PrSCy1TTd Away game against 
Washington & Jefferson College at 5:30 pm. 
jSchP a1PrSCy1TTd Away game against 
Washington & Jefferson College at 7:30 pm.
Movies
j1cEc Ee the s0AgcIo Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
fgOrSC Ee RE SC2Acd This is a funny and 
poignant profile of two unusual and extremely 
different women. One  wealthy and beauti
ful comes to Berlin to fulfill her destiny as 
a drunkard. The other is a chattering bag lady 
who is unconsciously drinking herself to 
death. Together they embark on a grotesque 
sightseeing tour of Berlin, toasting demon rum 
as they go. In German with English subtitles. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Film at 8 pm. 
Admission $3.
fmS 3AgcOSPP aAgUSo sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
3gCCPy2AIm s20SAOEM02CgcI tScCSA \SOB
C2ASd Mark Furtney, Cray Research, Inc., 
speaks on The Evolution of Parallel Process
ing at Cray at 4 pm in the Third Floor Social 
Room, Mellon Institute.
Special Events
sm1yy1C UgccSAd Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Sports
jSchP 1cU FEMSchP s.gMMgcId PAC
Championships at John Carroll. Time TBA.
Movies
Manon of the Spring, Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
lg1Ab kEA My tmgTUAScd Ms. Meszaros will 
be present to discuss this moving autobio
graphical account of a young girl who faces 
hard political and social choices when she 
returns to her native Hungary after living in the 
Soviet Union. In Hungarian with English 
subtitles. This is co-sponsored with the Film 
Studies Program of the University of Pitts
burgh. Carnegie Museum of Art Film at 8 pm. 
Admission $3.
ucUg1c1 VEcSP 1cU CmS fSM0TS Ee lEEMo
sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 
pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
\S1Ac CE V2IITS! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sports
jSchP 1cU FEMSchP s.gMMgcId PAC
Championships at John Carroll. Time TBA. 
FEMSchP a1PrSCy1TTd Home game against 
Grove City College at noon.
jSchP a1PrSCy1TTd Home game against 
Grove City College at 2 pm.
Movies
j1cEc Ee CmS s0AgcIo Part uu of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
lgACb 91AAbo sponsored by AB Films. DH at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Movies
i;,. ' f)j1cEc Ee CmS s0AgcIo Part II of Jean De 
Florette, starring Yves Montand, Daniel Ugo
lin and Emmanuelle Beart. This sequel to Jean 
de Florette takes place ten years after Jean has 
been destroyed by his greedy neighbors Cesar 
and Ugolin. In part II, Manon (Jeans 
daughter), now a beautiful young woman and 
an outcast from the community, seizes the 
opportunity to avenge her fathers death with 
shattering results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Workshops
FEArPmE0 eEA 9gIm sOmEET sC2UScCP & 
fmSgA 31AScCPd Women in Science & Engi
neering: A WISE Choice in WeH 7500 at 9 
am. *)
Music
fmS 3gCCPy2AIm RS. j2PgO cPSMyTSd If
youre among the millions searching for just 
the Right way to celebrate leap year, look no 
more! David Stock and the Pittsburgh New 
Music Ensemble challenge you to take the 
leap, with stunning soprano, Janice Felty, and 
Songs From the Mountain. Call 261-0554 
for more information.
Special Events
V101cSPS f1yTSd The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining ') 
hall.
Ftf sOmSU2TSd Freedom of Speech, a 
student debate on controversial issues, at 8:30 
pm. Topic: Education in America; Going up 
or comming down? WRCTs frequency is 
88.3 FM.
If you wish to submit an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event to fmS f1AC1co 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213. Send it by 
campus mail to the above addressor drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house between / 
DU and ATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its 
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
fmS f1AC1c is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any events listed. In 
addition. fmS f1AC1c reserves the right to 
edit or omit any listing for publication.
lS1UTgcS eEA t1TScU1A P2yMgPPgEcP gP 
FSUcSPU1b 1C ^ 0M eEA CmS cSC .SSrhP 
gPP2Sd)
