U&U5HEMEEKLBY-STUDEriT5
Of-THE
CAKnE(ilE-TEiHni(AL-S(f1LSM
VOLUME VJANUARY 18, 1911NUMBER 16
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
g..................................................................................................Kit itB )t *? ,'fi Most nice affairs whetherit , , [> & it be a Ball or Dinner are ^fit
St
held at The Rittenhouse,*%where every appointment 
is perfect, 
it
n
Boys This is the Headquarters for 
HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX AND ft
?n SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES $5
L# See Our Suit & Overcoat Special for $20 & $25 )J'
f(( H. A. FRIEDBERG b
 439 Smithfleld Street, - - Pittsburgh, Pa. ))}
$5 Open Evenings 2
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, 
Craig and Forbes St.,
Beginners Class Tuesday and Saturday. 
Advanced, Wednesday and Friday. 
PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY.
550^50-5502550-550^505550-5505550255025502550-
* EVERY TECHNICAL MAN V>4* *2
 will find the following papers of interest and
* value in his work. %i 4*
 They will keep you posted on the latest de^
& velopments in your chosen profession. They
& will tell you what the leading engineers in your ^
* line are doing. They will also keep you in4| formed of the openings in your profession 4j 
4 of opportunities for advancement throughout 4. 
 the field.
* ELECTRICAL WORLDWeekly$3.00 a Year, *
V The foremost electrical journal of the *
* world. Covers the entire electrical art and *
* industry. *
4* ENGINEERING RECORDWeekly$3 a Year. 4*
g. Devoted to civil engineering and allied sub^
 jects. Covers municipal engineering, indus^ 
'S> trial engineering, railway, civil engineering, V
* bridge anu structural engineering, power *
 plants, public works, etc. 
} ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNALWeekly J
4* $3.00 a Year. 4
5 The accepted authority in all branches of 
4* electric railway engineering. 2
Write for Special Student Rates&Sample Copies ^
J McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY $
4* 239 West 39th Street - - - New York g/ v4* f>4-*4>V**4*4-*4-*4-*4'*4-VfrS4'%4**4*4**4-%4'Vi*V**
\4>V4>S4\4>\4%4\4*\4*N4*S4*\*%4>V!>\4>V&%4>\4*\4>4*# See the Tartan Manager for student rates on <!
<y the following scientific papers; 
^ The Electric Railway Journal
4 The Electrical World V>& 4V The Engineering Record 3& 4
4,\4\4,\4,%4,N4,%4,\4,\4,S4,\4,\4,VI*\4,\4,\4,\4,\4,%
55S055S055X055S055S055;055S0
I| Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
jjj Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest
M Dyeing and Cleaning Works
55 OSCO'S5505 5502550255025502550255025502550255025502
ef3a|c*|iesJo2e|sa|i|a*|ca$a|s|8i|i|c|ee|33|e3|M|a*2*i|eaM|o\oJ6|8sQ*ge8|G$ao3|a^#
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or 
gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, 
Craig and Forbes.
Special offeronly a few fobs left at 25 ^
cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH. *
4*O%4-O%4-0%4O%4*O%4'O%4*O3ii4-O%4*O\4O%4*O%4-O*8 I% &^ |&PERTI NANTDREM %
Of that we print more books than any firm 0
% in the East End ?.......................................... <?>O 3Do "27OU IS32.0"W O
W, that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf-O lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine Q
 Printing?.......................................................... 
8 jE Ton IEC:clow 
g that we are prompt, and that an order g2 for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . ^
If you are fastidious, if you require ^
prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SPAHB <3z. MTSCHEE, $
6117=6119 Kirkwood Street O
14 5t ht 1awe4prin Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at'Tech. hi
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland Q
8 
 
8
1 3a\0%0*o^o*0^o*o\o\o\0\oso\o%o*o%oNo*
vwvw
/ OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET, i
Dealers in 52 BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE i AND CANNED 600DS 2
3714 FORBES STREET /55 Bell Phone Schenley ^
\*\4-\4-\*%4-\4*N4*S*\4\4-\4*\4-\4*\*S4\4*\4A* v ?Quality the Best Prices Moderate 4.
^ Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room 
Corner Craig and Forbes Streets %
4* PITTSBURGH, PA. *
$ SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS
\4*\4\4A.4-\4-\4*\4*V*S*\4-S4-%4*\4S4-\4*V4*\4*\v
 KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ
4 /^ Are now in their new building, 535 Wood S treet /
4* V0 Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials ^
0 *Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. VNo. 16(Tniini!
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1911.
CARNEGIE TECH GRADUATE DESCRIBES SCHOOLS
Mr. Haakon Styri, io flet, writes Interesting Paper for Swedish Journal.
The following is taken from Teknisk Ugeblad, the 
leading technical weekly of Norway:
After a short exposition about the American-Scandinavian Society and its purpose to exchange pro
fessors, students and teachers of the public schools, 
Mr. Haakon Styri, Carnegie Technical Schools, 10, 
writes as follows:
The Carnegie Technical Schools, founded by a 
gift of Mr. Carnegie, is under the same Board of 
Trustees as the Carnegie Institute and the Carnegie 
Library. To these institutions Mr. Carnegie has 
given Ten Million Dollars with promise of more 
when needed.
Ground was broken for the Schools in 1905, in 
Pittsburgh, and in October of the same year they 
were ready to receive the first students. Three 
years later the first class was graduated. In the 
beginning it was a three years course, which now 
is changed to a four years course (that is for the 
Schools of Applied Science and Architecture).
The Carnegie Technical Schools are in all made 
up of four different, separate schools, which all 
have both day courses and night courses.
The School of Applied Sciencp is for electrical, 
mechanical, civil, commercial, metallurgical, chemi
cal and mining engineers.
The School for Apprentices and Journeymen gives 
industrial or trade education with the purpose to 
enable the students to obtain a higher position in 
their trades as foremen, for example. There is also 
a special course for those who wish to be fitted as 
teachers in industrial schools.
The School of Applied Design gives instruction in 
Art and Design applied to the industries. At the 
present, courses are given in Architecture and In
terior Decoration.
And, finally, the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School gives an education for the woman of the 
home as well as for her manifold activities in the 
practical life.
As the aim of the schools are so different it fol
lows that the requirements for entrance vary. Thus 
the same requirements are made for the School of 
Applied Science as for the highest technical insti
tutions, as Massachusetts, Harvard and Boston, even 
if high school is not obligatory. About the same 
is true for the School of Applied Design, while the 
Trade School only demands a personal interview to 
decide if the applicant is fitted for the Schools.
As it is at the School of Applied Science that the 
Scandinavian students receive their post-graduate 
course, this is to be discussed in more detail.
The day school gives the courses in four years. 
The evening school, which gives the same courses 
for men in the practical work requires six or seven 
years. In the day school, the studies of the first 
year are the same for all. Beginning with the sec
ond year the course are divided in the main lines 
for chemists, mechanical, metallurgical, civil and 
electrical engineers. And for the third and fourth 
years is there opportunity to specialize still fur
ther.
Thus, the Senior Chemists may choose between 
industrial chemistry and electro-chemistry; the 
civils between railway construction, bridge engineer

---------------------------------------------------

iTHE TARTAN
ing, hydraulic and sanitary engineering; the elec
tricals between the design of direct and alternating 
current machinery, power transmission and distri
bution, electric railways, etc.; the metallurgists be
tween the manufacture of iron and steel, the met
allurgy of other metals, electrometallurgy, coal min
ing and metal mining; the mechanicals between 
prime movers, production machinery, furnace and 
rolling mill construction.
The many divisions of the main courses does not 
mean necessarily that there are that many classes, 
as the divisions follow only the main subjects and 
all the necessary minor courses are common for 
several sections wherever it is possible. To illus
trate, all the Seniors have one hour per week of 
Economics, one hour in the study of Contracts and 
for one semester two hours of Works Management.
The course in this School, as before mentioned, 
covers four years, and the intentionis that an or
dinary student shall have about 25 hours per week 
of work in order to complete the course, but it is 
permitted that a more gifted student may take 
more hours per week. It is demanded that a stu
dent must have secured in all 160 credit 
units, period and cap. A unit is one hour 
of lecture or recitation per week for a 
semester of seventeen weeks or three hours labora
tory or shop practice. When to this is added that 
in the courses where it is possible three laboratory 
periods count as one lecture period it should seem 
that the requirements are perhaps a little com
pared with our requirements.
In the meantime, the course is planned so that 
a great deal of home work is demanded of the stu
dents so that in all 9 or 10 hours daily is required 
of the ordinary student for five days of the week.
The reason for this is that the lectures at this 
School are perhaps of a more superficial and sugestive nature, strongly pointed with allusions to the 
requirements of the practical life; and it is left to 
the students themselves to find the connections and 
make a close, thorough study of the whole. In this 
they receive assistance from the instructors and 
fellow students. That the conditions are a little 
more severe than they seem to be at first is readily 
understood when of 148 students in the first year 
class 28 were left without conditions after this 
years final examinations.
In every course there are monthly examinations 
which are written. A number of questions are 
given which demand a rather brief answer. Be
sides, at the close of every semester there is given 
an examination of a broader scope, this also is writ
ten. A student may be exempt from this if his in
structors conclude that he is industrious and has 
sufficient knowledge in the course, or as they call 
ie if he has sufficiently high grade.
Very few oral examinations are given, nor are 
there any examinations covering the whole course, 
nor examinations of their skill to do practical work.
Those students which show by the examinations
that they have not worked sufficiently receive a 
card with advice to secure assistance 'from certain 
students which are named by the Faculty or to 
secure extra instruction from his professor so that 
the next time the grade may be improved. If at 
the next examinations, they still have a poor grade 
they are stricken off. If at the close of the semes
ter they have poor grades they are permitted to re
peat.
As already mentioned, the students have a great 
deal of home work. The reason for this is that 
the students, especially in the upper classes, are 
given different themes from their instructors which 
they must work out with the assistance of the 
library near by so that they may later recite upon 
the subject. Still further, the students must give 
reports of the many visits to manufacturing plants 
(the shop visits are discussed later in the class 
room). The reports are, wherever it is possible, 
formed as answers to questions placed by the in
structors after a conference with the shop manager 
concerned. Besides these shorter reports each 
student must work out a theme discussion of about 
5,000 words on some practical application of the 
course of his specialty or he must deliver a theoreti
cal thesis which must be handed in before gradua
tion from the Schools.
Before it has been mentioned that the instruction 
in the Schools aims to approach as closely as possi
ble to the practical life. Therefore, all the stu
dents must while in the lowest classes take short 
courses in Forging, Pattern Shop, Foundry and Ma
chine Shop, which are all at the Schools. In each 
there is given systematic instruction so that the 
students obtain a rather good notion of the methods 
in practice. The practical laboratory work is also 
arranged in an admirable manner. A report must 
be handed in for every single experiment; this re
port to contain: (1) The title of the experiment, (2) 
The purpose of the experiment. (Here it must be 
carefully stated what results are desired) . (3) De
scription and sketch in diagram form of the appara
tus used. (Only the important and necessary de
tails, besides it Is unnecessary to repeat former de
scriptions), (4) The theory of the experiment. 
(The underlying laws are stated and the formulas 
developed, and it is stated how the results are to 
be obtained), (5) Mode of procedure. (An exact 
description of how the experiment is performed), 
(6) A list' of the instruments used. (Type, series 
number and range to be given), (7) Data and re
sults. The numerical data corrected for the in
struments calibration are given along with the 
computed results on special sheets. (8> Curves 
must be set up wherever possible to the best se
lected scale. Title and sufficient data are given so 
that the curve is self-explanatory. (9) A general 
discussion which shall cover the percentage of ac
curacy, sources of error, difficulties encountered, 
and methods whereby the experiment may be im
proved and th# conclusion of the experiment.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
In the upper classes one does not have to treat 
the experiments in such detail. Most of the ap
paratus has been described formerly so that it be
comes more and more the results with curves and 
discussion which are to be handed in.
No rank is given on the diploma which the candi
dates receive when they have passed satisfactorily 
the different examinations and have done orderly 
and sufficient laboratory work. Likewise cap and 
gown are dispensed with at graduation. These 
which are so common at all American institutions 
signify over the whole country an entirely different 
educational training, so that there is surely no harm 
done in losing the outward adornments.
' At the present time strong efforts are being made 
to reform the education so that uniform demands 
are made in the different examinations. But it will 
surely be a long time before one can make hun
dreds of universities and colleges to agree thereto.
At last it ought to be mentioned that at the 
Schools there is also taken good care of the bodily 
health in this that a certain amount of the tuition 
money goes to the support of sports which are free 
for all. Athletics are under the direct leadership of 
the students. This, along with the fact that every 
class is under the leadership of an elected President 
with the Senior President as the highest representa
tive (they also have their own hurrah leader), 
helps to work in a discipline which is not inferior 
to that of a military corps, and this is indeed neces
sary where there are 2,400 students to command.
(Signed) Haakon Styri.
(It may be of interest to know that there are two 
illustrations along with the article. The first shows 
one of the chemical laboratories, the second, the 
laboratory for testing materials. The cuts were 
made from photographs taken by Mr. Styri while 
a student at the Schools).
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF STUDENTS 
19101911.
The geographical distribution shows that students 
have come from 36 out of the 48 States of the Union. 
The States represented are: Alabama, Arkansas, 
Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Dela
ware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, 
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, 
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, 
Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, North 
Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South 
Dakota, Texas, Virginia, Washington and West Vir
ginia.
Seventeen foreign countries also appear on the 
lists: Canada, Denmark, England, Germany, Hol
land, Hungary, India, Ireland, Japan, Norway, Per
sia, Poland, Roumania, Russia, Scotland, Sweden, 
and Switzerland.
A Coliseum costing $650,000 and seating 50,000 peo
ple, has been proposed for Yale:
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL SOCIETY.
The Carnegie Mechanical Society was treated to a 
lecture on the Automatic Air Brake, last Saturday 
evening, by F. H. Parke, resident engineer of the 
Westinghouse Air Brake Co. Mr. Parke covered 
the ground very thoroughly, taking up each acces
sory of the brake system and explaining its particu
lar function by the use of lantern slides. He ex
plained the function of the compressor, governor, en
gineers valve, triple valve, brake cylinder and the 
accessories used in the high speed brake system.
The lecture was interesting and instructive 
throughout, and those present learned something 
before the close of the lecture.
The long clay pipes were, as usuai, handed around 
and were smoked during the lecture, the idea being 
to make everybody feel as comfortable as possible. 
Ice cream, sandwiches and cake were consumed af- ter the lecture, thereby satisfying the inner man.
The next lecture will probably be on water purifi
cation by a well known specialist on this subject.
JUNIOR CLASS MEETING.
The Junior Class of the Applied Science held a 
meeting on Tuesday of last week. Matters pertain
ing to the Junior Promenade was discussed at the 
meeting.
The chairman of the Prom Committee, Henderson, 
recounted what the committee had done to date. 
The matter of what the assessment should be, came 
up for discussion. The chairman showed that on a 
basis of using paper covered programs and of a 
conservative estimate of what the attendance at the 
Prom would be, the lowest assessment that could be 
made would be $4.50. Further, he showed that by 
using leather covered programs of the card case 
form the assessment would, of necessity be $5.00. 
The class voted in favor of the $5.00 assessment. 
The question as to whether there should be flowers 
or not, was settled by the class voting to cut them 
out.
Alfred J. Ormston, of the Junior Mechanical Class, 
incidentally of Oil City, was elected manager of the 
Juni-or Class Basketball Team. Alfred has already 
booked some games.
LEWIS APPOINTED ALTERNATE FOR WEST 
POINT.
Richard Lewis, Science, 1914, has been appointed 
alternate for West Point from his home district, the 
Nineteenth Ohio. Lewis home is in Girard, Ohio. 
He expects to finish the term in Tech unless the 
regular fails to pass his examinations.
If Lewis enters West Point he will be the third 
Tech man to have gone there in the past four years. 
Paul Reinecke and David Crawford being the other 
two.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
SCHOOL OF APPLIED DESIGN.
The second Class A Plan Projects of this scho
lastic year, which were forwarded to the Society of 
Beaux Arts Architects of New York City, for exhi
bition and judgment, December the twelfth, were 
returned last week. Five designs were submitted 
from this school and received mentions.
The last Archaeological problem was returned at 
the same time. Of the nine designs submitted, 
three were awarded medals and the others men
tions. The students receiving medals were Messrs. 
Wm. Gehran, T. J. Raguere, and C. B. Moss.
The designs for the Byzantine Episcopal Throne 
and the Early Gothic Window are on exhibition in 
Room 220. The result of the judgment of these two 
problems is as follows:
The Byzantine Episcopal Throne.
D. Evans, 1st mention, commended.
J. Haushaulter, 1st mention.
B. Johnson, 1st mention.
H. J. Thomson, 3d mention.
F. Evans, 3d mention.
M. Cowan, 3d mention.
The Gothic Window
B. Johnson, 1st mention.
D. Evans, 1st mention.
J. Haushalter, 1st mention.
M. Cowan, 3d mention.
The prize for the best drawing submitted at the 
last freehand judgment was awarded to S. Patassi.
The second Esquisse in modeling was judged last 
Tuesday, and a lecture and criticism was given after 
the judgment. The. work was considered by the 
jury as so excellent and so far above the expecta
tions of the faculty that prizes were awarded to the 
three best designs. The students receiving prizes 
were Messrs. Hatcher and Allison, and Miss Tener. 
Mentions were also awarded to Misses M. Dunkle, 
M. Williams, F. Uhrbour and Mr. Hoffman.
All the designs were held by the faculty for the 
exhibition of the Pittsburgh Architectural Club to be 
open to the public at Carnegie Institute, March 2.
The subject of the competition was A small Foun
tain, situated in a garden and dedicated to Cupid.
The subject of the next design in modeling will 
be a Garden Vase.
Mr. Hornbostel delivered a lecture on Prehistoric 
Architecture of Yucatan to the members of the Uni
versity Club last Tuesday. In an interview with 
Mr. Hornbostel later our distinguished patron said 
it had all been suggested to him by some of the 
members of the Club, that an archaeological re
search club be formed for investigation of the ruins 
of Yucatan. Mr. Hornbostel said this would be 
something unique in the history of architectural 
schools, and should have his hearty sanction and 
support. It is hoped that this suggestion will be 
acted upon, and that the work done may reflect 
credit on the Carnegie Technical Schools as well as 
upon the individual members of the expeditions
The Tech Architectural Club will hold an Informal 
Dance at the German Club, on Craft avenue, Friday 
evening, January the twenty-seventh.
CRUCIBLE CLUB HOLDS INTERESTING 
MEETING.
The January meeting of the Crucible Club was 
held Wednesday evening, January 11, in Room 113. 
Mr. Bostwick, superintendent of Open Hearth No. 3 
of the Carnegie Steel Company, was the speaker of 
the evening. The topic chosen for Mr. Bostwicks 
address was Difficulties in Operating an Open 
Hearth. He began by giving a brief description of 
the open hearth furnace, methods and materials 
used in lining it and then took up the main topic. 
The subject was treated from the standpoint of the 
operator, and hence was quite practical. Methods 
of removing phosphorous, sulphur and other imprities were explained in a clear and forceful manner. 
The various troubles experienced in removing too 
much or not enough carbon and manganese were 
gone into in detail. Some of the theories set forth 
in text books and magazines were attacked and 
shown to not hold good in practice.
At the conclusion of the address, many questions 
were asked, all of which were answered to the sat
isfaction of the ingenious.
Owing to an engagement for the latter part of the 
evening, Mr. Bostwick was unable to partake of the 
generous refreshments served by the eats commit
tee. A very cordial invitation was extended by 
Mr. Bostwick to the members of the Club to visit 
the mills at Homestead and see how they do 
things.
Tne officers of the Club were very much pleased 
at the large turnout, and especially to note that the 
faculty and alumni were well represented.
The meeting was adjourned at a late hour and all 
went home, satisfied that they could run an open 
hearth without half trying, after hearing Mr. Bost
wicks clear and forceful talk.
R. C. Brown, Secretary.
SOPHOMORE BANQUET.
The Yearlings Put One Over on the Freshmen and 
Held Annual Feed Without Molestation.
Friday, the thirtieth! Doesnt it make you trem
ble and look around for hoodoos and ghosts? Ugh! 
Cant you just see hobgoblins and spooks cavorting 
around and bringing bad luck to all who tempt the 
Fates? Br-rr-r-r!!
That the day of superstition has passed with the 
horse-car and the hoop-skirt was ably demonstrated 
when the Class of 1913 of the Applied Science and 
Design Schools arranged and carried out the ap
pointments for the Annual Sophomore Banquet. 
The big eats festival took place in the banquet hall 
of the Scnenley Hotel, Friday evening, January the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANI
thirteenth, and was one of the most successful af
fairs of its kind which has been executed for some 
time. By good management and careful arrange
ment the Freshmen were kept in entire ignorance 
of the proceedings and the program was carried out 
most successfully, not one case of Plebeian miscon
duct marring the evening.
The great banquet-hall of the Schenley presented 
a delightful appearance when the entire company 
of seventy-five took their seats at 9 oclock. The 
long speakers table, ranged in lengthy dignity along 
one side of the hall, commanded a constellation of 
smaller tables which were scattered in studied dis
order over the rest of the allotted space. Carna
tions graced each place while brass candle-sticks of 
antique pattern added a picturesque touch to the 
festive board. The menus, a pretty favor in blue 
and red (the Science and Design colors) were clev
erly designed in an original, humorous style which 
evoked much laughter and commentation.
After the wants of the physical man had been 
supplied to satiety in the excellent style peculiar to 
Schenley service, the mental man had his inning. 
Toastmaster S. Jimmy Taylor filled his difficult post 
with true Chauncey Depew ease and smoothness. 
His introduction and remarks, interlarded with old 
and new yarns, were an excellent base for the post
prandial talks given by the speakers of the evening. 
The program of toasts was remarkably well selected 
and well balanced. Humor and witticisms vied with 
the more serious straight-from-the-shoulder remarks 
which were oftered by several of the toasters. Prof. 
Trinks responded to Student Life in Germany, and 
kept his audience convulsed with his inimitable 
word-pictures of the manners and customs Of the 
techites of Der Yaterland. Prof. Doyle spoke on 
The Heart of a Boy, a splendid talk delivered in a 
straight, sympathetic, convincing manner. Mr. 
Doyles remarks hit home to more than one of the 
hearts of the boys present. Mr. Rupert Oscar 
Rayburn delivered a spiel on School Personalities. 
The spirit of Dutch was in "his words, and with 
indescribable drollness and impalpable humor, he 
kept the company laughing from beginning to end. 
Texas McCorkle, manager of track, who spoke on 
the Uses and Possibilities of Our Track Team, 
delivered a heart-to-heart dissertation which made 
a deep impression by the earnestness and force with 
which it was delivered. Germany Siegle, in a 
speech entitled M. M. C. S. 13, showed a wonder
ful insight into the manners and customs of the 
Murphies, an insight which can but denote long 
experience and devotion to the cause. A speech 
without a subject was given by Jimmy Lamoree, of 
the Tartan staff. The chief merit of his effusion was 
its shortness. Chic Traver delighted the assembly 
by a series of impersonations of well-known profes
sors about school. Mr. Traver has dramatic ability 
which he insists upon hiding except upon state oc
casions such as this.
The real feature of the evening was the singing of 
the class quartette. Crawford, Gaylord,' Kukovitch 
and McFarland presented a line of real music diffi
cult to equal. Encore after encore greeted their 
efforts and a universal verdict of best in the 
school was rendered. Dearie Gearhart divided 
honors with the quartette and proved himself a 
bunch of steel wires and springs. His leading of 
the cheers throughout the evening was done in a 
fiery, spontaneous manner, which would have paled 
the finest efforts of a Russian dancer, a Socialist 
harangue-artist and Barnum contortionist com
bined. .
Practically the only risappointment of the occa
sion was the regrets which were sent by Presi
dent Johns of the Plebe Class. Johns was captured 
by the Sophs at noon Friday and placed in close 
confinement. Later in the day he escaped from his 
temporary prison and was not present at the ban
quet, much to the disappointment of the Sopho
mores, who delight in showing hospitality and es
pecial interest in the tender class.
On a whole, the affair was a distinct success, and 
is a credit to the class. The committee in charge 
consisted of J. F. Tabler, chairman; L. B. Traver, 
N. G. Parry, C. L. Kukovitch, W. P. Baird, and L. C. 
Dillenback. These gentlemen are certainly deserv
ing of the highest praise in connection with the 
feed. The banquet will undoubtedly be long re
membered by those who were so fortunate as to be 
present and should prove a bright mile-stone in the 
pathway of college memories.
FROM THE LAND OF REVOLUTIONS.
The Woodlawn Club had the pleasure of enter
taining Lou Huntley, 08, Met., over Saturday and 
Sunday of last week. Mr. Huntley was a very ac
tive member of the club while he was in School, and 
was one of the best known men in his class. Im
mediately following his graduation in June, 1908, 
Huntley and Foster, a class-mate, set out for Pan
ama in search of employment and adventure. They 
got both. Mr. Huntleys tales of his work and esca
pades in Panama and in South America, where he 
has spent a great portion of his two and one-half 
years at the equator, are unusually interesting. He 
has done almost every conceivable yind of work 
levelman at. the Isthmus, stoker on a sea-going 
dredge, chief engineer of construction of a railroad 
in Ecuador, goid prospector and mining stock ex
ploiter are some of the positions he has successfully 
filled. Mr. Huntley is thinking of making a western 
trip soon unless conditions arise such as to necessi
tate his staying in this city.
The University of California is preparing to es
tablish a school of journalism. This department 
will give especial attention to the training of prac
tical newspaper men.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12.Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12.............Associate Editor
David Henderson, 12...........Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13.................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor 
C. B. Kline, 13.............................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11...................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12... .Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ........................................................................$2.00
Single Copy....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ........................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.......................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
HELPING A GOOD THING ALONG.
Things are done in a hurry these days. Building 
a sky-scraper in six months or constructing a giant 
steel-mill in a year, shooting half way across the 
continent in a Pullman car in eighteen hours or 
flitting several miles in less than as many min
utes with some six-cylinder speed maniac, all these 
Avonders of the twentieth century have become so 
commonplace that we marvel no more. Haste be
comes natural; speed becomes an obsession.
In a college, and especially in a technical college, 
time is a great factor. In order to get the necessary 
training in the limited time at our disposal we ar 
compelled to keep on the jump every minute. We 
hustle here and there, do things in a minute that 
should take hours, push, scramble, invent, compro
mise, apologize, plan, decide, execute, criticiseand 
all in a minute. Our motto is Do itand we never 
fail to add the afterthought in a hurry.
In the universal rush we are apt to forget at times 
that today is not all. .We are inclined to live too 
much in the present and let the tomorroAV take care 
of itself. In none of the student activities is this 
tendency so apparent as in the Avorking up of The 
Thistlewhich brings us doAvn to our subject.
The Thistle represents the Schools. The Board 
of Editors is hard at work and expects to get out a 
publication AArhich will excell any previous effort. 
In order to do so they will have to have the earnest 
co-operation of every man in Tech. This is es
pecially true in the matter of grinds, news of the 
\ arious classes, and the great bulk of personal and
impersonal matter Avhich makes interesting reading 
and relieves the necessary but monotonous round 
of class pictures and general information Avhich is 
ahvays a large part of such a book. Do not think 
that the Thistle can be built in a day or two, and 
do not think that that day or two should be the last 
day or two. Previous and measured effort is most 
necessary to a successful Annual, the digest of a 
years work and achievement. If you Avant a good 
Thistle do something for it. Write up your grinds 
and jokes or personal items and hand them to one 
of the editors or leave them in the mail-box ad
dressed Editor Thistle. Dont be content to 
merely purchase the book when it comes out; help 
make it. Help a good thing along.
COGSWELL RE-ELECTED.
Fred R. Cogswell has been re-elected Treasurer 
of the Athletic Association. Since Mr. CogSAvells 
assumption of the cares of the financial office last 
year, the Association has come up from a condition 
of chaos and general disorder to a firm business
like basis never before equaled. Th Association 
is indeed fortunate to command the services of a 
business man of Mr. CogsAvells scope and ability.
NEW LATHE.
The department of Machine Design has received 
a new lathe which Avill be used by the Plebes as a 
model for their second semester Avork in Mechanical 
Drawing. The faculty hope to have a Production 
Engineering laboratory Avhen the buildings are en
larged and the lathe will probably find a resting 
place there.
C. E. MEETING.
Saturday evening, January 28, 1911, the Civil So
ciety meets for the last time in this semester. We 
hope to make a good finish in both and intellectual 
and a social way.
Several members have agreed to talk on Per
sonal Experiences in Engineering Work. The ex
periences cover railroad, harbor, mine, and office 
Avork of all kinds. Work Avhich is particularly in
teresting to each member will undoubtedly be touch
ed upon at some time during the evening.
Following the entertainment and business will 
come the refreshments and smokes.
If for no other reason then, each member should 
come to meet his fellow student in a social Avay. 
You will find the man whom you thought unrespon
sive to good felloAvship, to be a very different sort 
of man at a social gathering. And so friendships 
Avill be formed, without which your college life will 
have been in good part, a failure.
Date, January 28, 1911.
Time, 8 P. M.
Place, Room 58 of the Civil Department.

---------------------------------------------------

2TH 2EA2ER9
THE DEANS COLUMN
To the Editors of the Tartan:
I have read with interest and sympathy Dean 
Leetes letter published in your last issue. Perhaps 
certain other suggestions concerning the subjects 
and the value of student activity might be pertinent 
and interesting in this connection.
It appears to many of those interested in educa
tional affairs that the American student, for want of 
encouragement or for want of ideas or both, does 
not generally include among his active interests 
those of an intellectual kind, other than the study 
required of him. I use with hesitation the term in
tellectual, which has been so much abused as to be
come almost a term of contempt; meaning by it, in 
this case, nothing more offensive than concerning 
the thinking faculties of thoughtful men.
I was once struck by an exceedingly shrewd 
statement of the case from Prof. Arthur Jovejoy, 
now at Johns Hopkins,that American students 
have no intellectual hobbies; meaning that in gen
eral they do not greatly concern themselves with 
or devote any considerable enthusiasm to those 
great subjects of thought that have in all times en
gaged the liveliest interest of the finest men; his
tory,the record of the march of people, through 
the centuries; sociology, philosophy, religious, poli
tics, natural sciences, poetry, music, architecture.
Is this true of American students? If it is true, 
is it not high time some efforts were made to sug
gest the comparative worth of student activity in 
the direction of these intellectual enthusiasms?
If it be true that the results of the lives and labors 
of countless generations of men, that have come 
down to us in science and art and the records of 
experience, are unknown to our average student and 
excite in him no high imaginings, the state things 
is surely not what might be wished, and our young, 
men are perhaps to be pitied for what they lose.
I recall some quotations from a letter written by 
an American Rhodes scholar from England, to the 
effect that when he came among "his foreign associ
ate students he was surprised and ashamed to find 
himself an intellectual boor. The novel and illurvnating realization came home to him that there 
were in some schools whole groups of young fellows 
to whom the accumulated treasures of humanity 
were not sealed and mysterious; who actually knew 
about history or politics or fine arts, as a matter of 
course and because they wanted to,because these 
things excited their interest and fired their imagina
tions.
The temptation is irresistible to suggest some 
possible extensions of the interview between the 
senior and freshman at the university referred to 
in Dean Leetes letter, which might as well be any 
American school.
Mr. SeniorWell, Mr. Freshman, your part in the 
physical and social life of our institution prom
ises to be well done. Now, what intellectual ac
tivities do you propose to take part in as a stu
dent here?
Mr. FreshmanWhawhats that, Mr. Senior?
Mr. SeniorI mean what, of an intellectual kind, 
are you specially interested in, outside of your 
Required studies? What do you set your mind to? 
Whats your hobby?
Mr. FreshmanII dont know. Cant say I ever 
thought of such a thing. Do you mean a fellows 
got to be a serious muff and all that, and 
and . . .
Mr. SeniorOf course not. A man who takes him
self too seriously generally is a muff, and always 
seems one. I mean what do you propose to do 
for the fun of it, so to speak, out of unaffected and 
spontaneous interest? People dont have hobbies 
because theyve got to, but because they like to. 
Mr. FreshmanWhat do you mean by an intellec
tual hobby, anyhow?
Mr. SeniorWhy, something you like to study, 
talk, argue about. Some idea or set of ideas you 
feel strongly about; that you might fight for,or 
kill somebody for, you know. German and Rus
sian students, for example, have been known to 
suffer unpopularity, imprisonment, banishment, 
even death on account of political or social or re
ligious activities. Theres Carl Schurz . .
Mr. Freshman (Hotly)I guess Id be willing to 
kill any professor who flunked me just before the
spring trip of.............
Mr. SeniorYes, I knowthats all right as far as
it goes, but................
(Curtain, Quick, Distress!)
It is sincerely hoped that these suggestions may 
not be misinterpreted as hostile to any of the sound 
and admirable activities that now engage the in
terest of the splendid young fellows of the American 
colleges and professional schools. They are an in
spiring army, with their open-mindedness, their gen
erosity, their vitality, their priceless enthusiasm of 
youth. But might they not be a little better in
spired? Might they not furnish their heads and 
hearts somewhat better for the capture and im
provement of the world they are going into, by 
nursing through their student days, some manly 
and gentlemanly interest in those products of hu
man labor and thought that time has approved as 
setting out the loftiest and most permanent ideals 
of our race? Might not some increase of activity of 
this kind bring them further than they have been 
heretofore toward the orderly precision of thought, 
the breadth of view of men and affairs, toward the 
sweet reasonableness Matthew Arnold speaks of, 
which must always be the foundation of the'largest 
success of the greatest men?
Henry McGoodwin.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
GYMNASTIC NOTES.
The Sophomores of the Science School defeated 
the corresponding class from the Design School in 
the first game of the basket ball tournament. The 
Architects were unable to tally throughout the first 
half, and, when the smoke had cleared away, the 
final score was 144. Half of the losers four 
points were scored by Giel when he made a splendid 
shot for the wrong basket. Baird and Simpson 
starred for the Engineers, while Berringer put up a 
good game for the Artists. Line-up:
Science1913. Position. Design1913.
Simpson-Kesselman .........F............................ Berainger
Crane-Baird .........................F............................... McCrory
Blair-McMillan ...................C................................ Bauman
Clements-Schuckman ...G..................................... Finkle
Baird-Giel ..............................G................................... Holden
Goals from fieldBaird 3, Crane, Simpson, Schuckman, McCrory, Giel. Goals from foulBaird, 2 out 
of 3. UmpireQuinlan.
The Design Plebes were scheduled to meet the 
Science Plebes, but did not appear upon the floor. 
It is hoped that this will not occur again, as it 
seems to show a lamentable lack of class and school 
spirit. It is not necessary to have a team of stars 
in order to enter the league, as it was formed for 
the express purpose of developing material.
The gymnasium classes are not being well attend
ed. Mr. McCulloch wishes to point out the fact 
that they are compulsory, and that a regular at
tendance is required.
The school is going to enter a relay team and 
also men in other events in the indoor meet to take 
place at the Duquesne Gardens on February 11th. 
All weight men, high jumpers and runners are re
quested to report to Mr. McCulloch as soon as possi
ble. The jumpers and weight throwers have facili
ties for practice in the gymnasium, while the cinder 
track in the athletic field is in good shape for the 
use of the runners.
EASTERN TRIP OF THE BASKET-BALL TEAM.
Minus the services of its two regular guards, 
DuBarry and J. Williams, the Varsity was beaten in 
each of the two games on its eastern trip. On Fri
day night Bucknell beat us by the score of 35 to 18, 
while on Saturday we lost to the strong Harrisburg 
All-Collegians, 51 to 22. The latter game was 
played upon a large, slippery floor, to which the 
Plaid team was unaccustomed.
At Bucknell, the score was 24 to 7 at the end of 
the first half, but, after the intermission, the team
regained its usual form. The scoring in the second 
half was even, each side accumulating 11 points be
fore the bell rang. Jordan was the star throughout 
the game, getting five baskets. Keltz also played a 
good game. For Bucknell, Thatcher and Kurtz 
starred. Thatcher caged the ball eight times in 
all, many being from difficult angles, while Kutz 
dropped it through the netting six times. Both 
Kurtz and Keltz were off form in foul shooting. 
Had Techs guards been present, the game would 
have been a very close one.
At Harrisburg, the game was even until our team 
became exhausted by the play upon the large floor. 
At the end of the first half the score was 16 to 11, 
but when the game was over, the ex-collegians had 
rolled up 35 points more to our 11. Reed starred 
for Harrisburg, his shooting being the feature of 
the evening, while Gaffney, Taggert and OBrien also 
played well. Jordan played the best game for the 
wearers of the Plaid. As in the Bucknell game, he 
caged the ball five times from the field. Williams 
also got two nice baskets.
The large crowd which was present applauded 
all good plays vigorously. After the game, a dance 
was given, at which all of the players enjoyed them
selves immensely. Throughout the entire trip the 
men received exceptionally good treatment, the 
players and officials of the opposing teams doing all 
that they could to make them feel at home. Score:
January 13, 1911At Lewisburg.
Tech. Position. Bucknell.
Kilgore .................................F..................................... Kurtz
Jordan ..................................F.. Thatcher-Bartholomew
Keltz ......................................C................ Fisher-Thatcher
R. Williams..........................G..................................................................... Zehler
Saunders ...............................G............. McCullom-Rhodes
Goals from the fieldKurtz 8, Thatcher 6, Fisher, 
Zehler, Jordan 5, Kilgore, Williams. Goals from 
foulKeltz, 4 out of 8; Kurtz, 3 out of 7. Second 
end of first half, 247. RefereeMoorehead.
January 14, 1911At Harrisburg.
Tech. Position. Ex-Collegians.
Jordan ..................................F................................. Gaffney
J. Williams ........................F................................. Taggert
Keltz .....................................C................................. OBrien
Kilgore .................................G....................................... Reed
Saunders ..............................G................................. Johnsen
Goals from the fieldGaffney 4, Taggert 4, OBrien 
6, Reed 7, Johnsen 1, Jordan 5, Williams 2, Keltz, 
Kilgore. Goals from foulKeltz, 4 out of 4; Tag
gert, 7 out of9. Score at end of first half, 1611. 
RefereeZones.
VISITORS AT TECH.
Prominent visitors of the week have been Dr. N. 
Nakagawa, a Japanese government envoy, who is 
making a world trip for sociological data; Mr. El
lery Sedgwick, editor of the Atlantic Monthly, and 
Father Heinrich, President of the Morning Star 
School, Tokio, Japan.

---------------------------------------------------

2TH 2EA2ER11
* VH *********'>*****************<&*** ^4* (j,
| STUDENT AID BUREAU *
* *
Full Time.
Opening for three or four graduates or advanced 
night students in Electrical Engineering with tele
phone company in this city; $55 to $85 per month 
to start. Exceptional opportunities for advance
ment.
'Chemist in iron foundry of large manufacturing 
company near Pittsburgh; $80 to $90 per month to 
start.
Architectural draftsman in firm in New Castle, 
Pa.; $75 per month.
Stenographer and file clerk in downtown Steel Co.; 
wages $60 per month.
Positions for six men with technical training with 
a company making motor cars and trucks. Duties, 
looking for troubles and suggesting remedies.
Openings for several young men to start in tele
phone business as assistant installers.
Chemist on coke and limestone analysis. Work 
temporary; probable duration seven months; $75 to 
$100 per month.
Part Time.
Taking care of furnace between 7.30 and 8.30 in 
morning, at house in East End.
Soliciting Casualty Insurance.
Selling a new device for repairing tube punctures; 
liberal discount of 40 per cent.
APPLIED SCIENCE NIGHT.
Senior Committees
Senior BallH. C. Barchfeld, E. F. Noonan.
Class DayL. F. Baker, O. L. Pringle.
These two committees to act in conjunction with 
day committee.
BanquetH. T. Woods, E. F. Noonan, C. H. Mc
Call, J. N. Van Der Werff, H. F. Gump, H. A. Bate.
PictureJ. L. Williams, E. M. George, C. H. Mc
Call, S. B. Webster, O. L. Pringle, O. B. McMillan. 
Representative to Thistle BoardE. F. Noonan. 
Representative to Athletic BoardC. H. McCall.
Chicago University plans to build a new $600,000 
library in memory of the late President Harper.
The German Universities this year enroll 52,456 
students.
TEN DOLLARS FOR NEW COVER DESIGN.
The Tartan, Through the Generosity of Well-Known 
Oakland Hatter, Is Enabled to Offer Prize
for a New Cover Design.
A. Heimert, the well-known Hatter and Mens
Furnisher of Oakland, has offered a prize of five 
dollars to be given to the person designing the best 
cover for the Tartan. The Tartan has added an
other five dollars to Mr. Heimerts offer, making a 
total of ten dollars. The contest will be conducted 
by. the Tartan and is open to members of the Car
negie Technical Schools only. The contest will be 
governed according to the following rules:
1. Only bona fide students of the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools are eligible to compete.
2. All drawings must be done in black ink upon 
white paper; the actual size of drawing is to be 
14x19, or twice the size of cut to be made from the 
drawing.
3. Only pen-and-ink drawings suitable for zinc 
etching plate will be considered. Wash-drawings 
or drawings in color will not be eligible for prize.
4. A jury composed of Dean Henry K. McGoodwin, Mr. C. R. Hewlett, and Mr. A. W. Sparks, of 
the School of Applied Design; Mr. A. W. Tarbell, 
Registrar of the Schools; James K. Lamoree, 
Editor-in-Chief of The Tartan, and Donald D. Mitch
ell and David Henderson, Associate Editors of the 
Tartan, will judge the drawings and select the prize
winner.
5. All drawings must be finished and handed in 
before 9.00 A. M. Monday, February 6, 1911, to re
ceive consideration.
Drawings will be judged according to attractive
ness, appropriateness, technique and suitableness 
for reproduction. Every drawing entered will be 
carefully viewed and considered and every contest
ant will have an equal opportunity to win the prize. 
The winning design will be used on The Tartan 
throughout the next semester. Here is an excellent 
chance for ye artist and ye pen-manipulator. Get 
busy right now and win that prize! Make up your 
mind to be in the race from the start. Let us see 
what YOU can do.
GLEE CLUB NOTICE.
The new pins have arrived and the men ordering 
same can obtain them from the Secretary-Treasurers Office, 5137 Woodlawn Avenue, at any time dur
ing the next week. Office hours: 1.00 to 6.00 P. M.
H. A. WOELLMER,
Secretary-T reasurer.
Much has been said regarding the daring of young 
men in connection with football, etc., but not so 
much will be said on this score when it becomes 
known that two basketball teams of Boone, Iowa, 
are going to play a championship game in hobble 
skirts.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
RUNAWAY.
A runaway of an exciting nature took place last 
week. It happened while the new school anto-truck 
was being inspected by Bill, Joe, A1 and other indi
vidual of daffydil and solid ivory fame belonging to 
the student body of the school.
Somehow or other the machine started off, acci
dentally, while Bill was inspecting the steering and 
operating gear, and in spite of the fact that the re
mainder of the party jumped into the machine with 
the object of stopping it by overloading with their 
combined weight, the machine persisted on its on
ward course.
It was impossible for the caretaker of the ma
chine to undertake the task of overtaking it, as he 
was some distance away engaged in conversation 
with Al, who was telling him what the socialist 
party was going to do for the workingman.
Fortunately, however, Joe had chaffeured for Des
perate Desmond in a few of his thrilling ventures 
and was able to prevent the machine from running 
into the prerogatives in front of the M. M. C. S. 
and to make the machine pursue a course more pe
culiar to the equation to a straight line.
From another standpoint it was fortunate that Joe 
was in the party, as it occurred spontaneously to 
the students to take advantage of this unlooked 
for opportunity of prosecuting an investigation into 
the thermal efficiency of the machine from a prac
tical standpoint. That a desire to pursue the 
higher education by a little individual research 
work should be engendered under these exciting 
conditions, is remarkable and is worthy of the high
est eulogy.
To make the thermal efficiency tests as exhaust
ive as possible it was decided to take various devi
ous routes and to take readings every minute, one 
of the party blowing a cornet (where it came from 
no one knows) at the end of each minute as a sig
nal to take readings all at the same time.
As it was impossible to do any computing while 
the truck was in motion, a number of stops were 
made at places where computations could be made, 
the progress of the test discussed and refreshments 
be procured, the idea being to absorb as much 
knowledge as possible wrhile the test was in pro
gress. While running along the streets so absorbed 
was the party in the test that, while passing the 
police stations on the way, they gave little heed to 
urgent invitations to stop at these justly famed 
havens of rest.
In a few instances the truck and its occupants 
were taken for Dunlevys Pork Sausage wagon, 
which was also going the rounds advertising the 
fact that Dunlevy made his sausages exclusively 
of little pigs.
.after the trip was over and the data had been 
examined, the party came gravely to the conclusion 
after much weighty congideratipn that PV actually 
equaled M R T.
NEWS OF COLLEGES.
State College recently opened a mine rescue sta
tion and instruction in rescuing and reviving miners 
will be given.
The Yale crew rowed in the harbor last week. It 
was the first time in several years a crew from 
there has been on the water in January.
A subscription is being taken among the student 
body at Cornell for the purpose of buying a motor 
for the Aero Club.
A class in Jui Jitsu has been started at Columbia 
as an innovation. Practice is held three times a 
week.
A class that spends an hour daily in discussing 
motives for buying things to eat is the latest inno
vation at the University of Missouri.
Although different students employ various means 
to work their way through college, one of the most 
unusual means is that of a student at the Univer
sity of Kansas who milks his way through college. 
When the boy started in college he had only $250 
to pay for his entire course. He invested the whole 
amount in three cows. He made arrangements with 
the lady with whom he boarded to furnish stable 
room in return for milk. He soon had customers 
enough to dispose of a daily average of ten gallons 
of milk. He cares for the cows himself and the 
three cows are paying his college expenses.
Theoretical and practical work in aviation is to 
be carried on by an Aeronautical Society organized 
by students of the University of Michigan. The so
ciety is to be entirely a student club, and has at 
least 100 members enrolled from all departments.
The University of Iowa has established a Quo 
Vadis Club, one of the membership requirements in 
which is that the man must have a record of having 
traveled 1,000 miles or more without a railroad 
ticket or cash fare.
During an examination given recently at the Uni
versity of Missouri the professor passed around 
cigars.
The entire student body of the North Georgia 
Agricultural College at Dahlone, Ga., was arrested 
following the bursting of the big Government cannon 
in the barracks, resulting in the wrecking of the 
building. It is said that the cannon was loaded 
with giant powder with a fifty-one foot fuse attached. 
The school is under $6,000 bond to the Government as 
a guarantee for the security of the cannon.
looips Xao^Baudaad u Xq pauA\.o 9q o; s^uii jioS 
Sui}onjisuoo si ^uiapBoy sdnimd

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
The new engineering building, erected at a cost 
of $100,000, was formally opened at Union College 
a short time ago.
Dartmouth, Cornell and Michigan are the new 
teams on the Princeton baseball schedule for 1911.
Columbia has an endowment fund of $28,500,000 
larger than any other college.
Harvard will erect a new University club house 
in memory of the late Francis H. Burr, former foot
ball captain.
A race between the Columbia and Navy crews has 
been arranged for May 13.
The basketball team from the University of Reis, 
Japan, is planning to tour the United States next 
Spring.
WHEN THE WASH COMES BACK.
Why, heres some socks from gay Paree, 
And heres a strangers B.V.D.;
A white vest, whose capacity 
Would hold two hippopotami;
Next comes a shirt of faded blue,
A pair of loud pajamas, too.
Unless my clothes come P.D.Q.
Ill dare not pace the avenue.
Good laundress, if compassions thine, 
Restore the clothes for Which I pine;
My heart will beam like bright sunshine 
If youll bring back one thing thats mine!
Harvard Lampoon.
The College Bachelor.
Clerks and stenographerspleasant to view. 
Milliners, heiresses, actresses too,
Nurses and manicuresoh, what a crew! 
Millions of girlsyet Im girlless and blue.
Peaches who pass me by thousands each day. 
Pippins who give me the visage glace,
Queens I could love if I just had my way, 
Millions of girlsbut the Fates chuckle Nay!
Ex.
A Fit Place.
ContributorWhat has become of that poem 
The Turtledove, I sent you?
EditorIve placed it in a pigeonhole.Boston 
Transcript.
The Seniors won an inter-class meet at Massachu
setts Institute of Technology last week while the 
Juniors, Sophomores, and Freshmen followed in 
their respective order.
(i5cMSM3MSMM3fSl3M3I3MM33I3I3MS3JSM9M31S3IBJ3J31
I M. M. C. S. I
@JS13J5M3J3EMSJSSI35[3J5M5M3M3IS13M3MSJSJ3M3MSJtJ
Basket ball is claiming the close attention of the 
girls just at present. Before the holidays there 
were too many other interests to allow much time 
for this sport. Now class teams have been organ
ized, games between classes arranged, and soon 
there will be stirring times in the gym. Miss Stoner 
deserves our heartiest thanks for her interest and 
assistance. Let all the girls, not only those on the 
teams, but all the undergraduates in the School, 
show their class spirit by attending the games.
Helen Stewart has been elected captain of the 
Senior basket ball team. Miss Stewart will make 
a fine captain, and has the best wishes of her class 
for a successful season.
A most interesting exhibit at the Institute has 
claimed our attention lately. A number of photo
graphs displayed by the Pittsburg Camera Club 
made up an exhibition which, although small, was 
a delight to the eye. A few of the photographs 
were tinted, some were beautifully finished in grey, 
green, or sepia. The exhibition was most artis
tic, and a revelation in regard to photographic pos
sibilities.
Mr. Wood, who has been absent from school for 
a week, has returned. The financial affairs of the 
secretarais, in woeful condition, especially in the 
bank, will now go on in the accustomed way.
A committee, composed of Helen Baglin, Reta 
Kempel, Ruth Turkle, Mabel Toudy, and Olive Jen
kins, has been appointed tp select a play to be given 
by the Dramatic Club in the Spring. The sooner 
the selection is made the better, for work on the 
play should begin at once.
Mrs. Johnston has been teaching the Senior Dress
makers all that is to be known about bows. The 
subject of beaux should be pleasant study to most 
of the girls.
Heard in Plebe Cooking Class.
Miss LyonWhat oil do you get from fish?
M. HarrisonOlive oil.
Mary MorrowI usually dont mind being kissed, 
but I draw the line at a whole bunch of relatives.
An International Club was recently formed at the 
University of California, which is to become one of 
the Intercollegiate Association of Cosmopolitan 
Clubs.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE KIDDO
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS FOR THE FALL STYLES
lcL'SMSiSMSJSJSiSjSMSJSJSJ3J3iSJ5M3MSM3M313J if3I3MSM3
| PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT j
!LiijSI5i5IBIB2iMBI5j5j515JSi5JSili/5JBJ5j5jBJ5JBJ5JBJ5J5JSi5J5JBJ5J5iBJcil
A shirt-tearing, collar-splitting contest was held 
in Machinery Hall, Tuesday afternoon. Haberdash
ers and mens furnishers, please take notice.
Whitey Ryman is the man who did the deed. 
Why will he persist in rough-housing?
The basket ball team was met and entertained in 
Harrisburg by Fat Crowell, the erstwhile Techite, 
who did the honors in great style as usual when it 
came to the ladies.
They say Keltz doesnt fit into a Pullman berth. 
Too much length is an inconvenience at times.
Henderson and his Junior Prom troubles reminds 
one of a hen with one chick.
Knapp is having troubles of his own with hockey. 
Much talk and little action coupled with warm 
weather and a segregation of interests in some 
places makes it hard to get much accomplished.
The new glee club pins are a nifty article and 
fortunate are the wearers thereof.
A new student government system has been 
adopted by the girls of Iowa Wesleyan College. 
They make the rules by which their daily routine 
is regulated and elect by popular ballot a council 
which enforces these rules and inflicts all punish
ment.
There are more girl students paying their own 
way through the Kansas State University than any 
like educational institution in the United States. 
It is stated by the registrar of the university that 150 
girls have asked the employment bureau to secure 
them places in the homes of Lawrence people, where 
they can earn their board and lodging by tutoring 
or doing household work.
The EgotistWaiter, take this gentlemans soup 
away. I cant hear the band!Punch.
At the University of Wisconsin a society has been 
formed to study the historical development of 
woman.
Hereafter, the Oregon co-ed will attend the danc
ing classes merely for physical culture, and not for 
credits. Such is the ruling of the faculty, which 
has vetoed Dr. Bertha Stuarts plan of giving one 
hours credit for the class known officially as fancy 
dancing, and colloquially as co-ed ballet. This ac
tion was voted by the facultyafter attention being 
called to an old rule which prohibits any college 
credit being given for physical training.
Feminine members of the Freshman and Sopho
more classes of Denver University recently held a 
scrap of their own to the horror of the faculty and 
the joy of the hair-dressers. Profanation of Fresh
man colors by the Sophomores started the trouble. 
In a few minutes the air was filled with a shower of 
rats, puffs and coronet braids. Shirtwaists were 
wrecked and a few walking skirts will walk no more. 
The Freshmen were compelled to withdraw from the 
field.
They were wicked people 
Who lived upon the Nile 
And smoked Egyptian cigarettes 
Till they died in torments vile.
When one of them inhaled his last 
They plugged his nose and tied it,
The nicotine which filled the corpse 
Then promptly mummified it.
Cincinnati News.
I tell you I must have some money! roared the 
King of Maritania, who was in sore financial straits. 
Somebody will have to cough up.
Alas! sighed the guardian of the treasury, who 
was formerly the Court jester, all our coffers are 
empty.Ex.
ProfessorThe University is a great human fac
tory.
Ex. 09Ive heard they canned students.Cornell 
Widow.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
Jas. J. Flannery, President. jm Booth, Vice-President. JGPew, 2d Vlce-Pres. and Secy
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
1 he Junior Prom looks as if it will be some swell 
affair. Nothing like doing things up brown.
The Industries men manage to stir up a little ex
citement now and then. How about it, Caspar!
And the exams continue to approach us with re
lentless fury. By the horns of Panurge, is there no 
help for the wicked?
An equation which will work out:
XAm + Plebite (raw material)=F (in great quan
tities) + Xit.
Beginning February 1, every young woman in the 
home economics department of the University of 
Missouri who takes a course in testing fabrics must 
roll up her sleeves and work over a washtub.
Later the laboratory will be equipped with an elec
tric washing machine. It is expected to enable the 
co-eds to determine which is cheaper, laundry work 
dont by hand or work done by electricity.
SEVENTartan
Flowers are not allowed at any Prom function at 
Yale, the object being to save men unnecessary ex
pense.
The Harvard hockey team won from Springfield 
Training School at hockey, 12 to 0.
The new $20,000 gymnasium now being construct
ed at Geneva College, Beaver Falls, Pa., will be ded
icated on February 22.
Mt. Union has re-engaged Coach Dawson for foot
ball, basket-ball and physical director. Joseph Monier has been elected football captain.
An Amateur Detectives Association has been 
formed at Purdue, which has for its object, the de
velopment of the powers of observation of its mem
bers. Each member of the club will at different 
times commit various acts which have been defined 
as crimes by the rules of the club, and will cover up 
his crime as far as possible. The other members 
are to do the Sherlock Holmes act, and prove the 
crime was committed.
In 1909 there were 4,939 fraternity men taking 
Bible study in American Universities.
A Carnegie medal and $2,000 for college expenses 
have recently been awarded to a Bowdoin student 
for rescuing a child from a burning building.
President Taft has become a trustee of Harvard 
University, succeeding Gen. O. O. Howard, one of 
the founders.
Ohio State University has enrolled this year Mrs. 
A. D. Winship, whols eighty years old. She at
tended the summer school at Michigan.
The three classes have been practicing basket ball 
very hard this past week in order to be in form for 
the contest. Each class will play the other two to 
see who will be the champions. All the classes 
show promise so that the one which is successful 
will be worthy of congratulations. The regular 
teams have not been chosen but they will be by this 
time next week.
LUTHERS HAT.
The only thing worthy of note that marked the 
return of the Junior Mechanicals for another period 
of well earned rest, was the debut of a new domecovering adorning the head of one of its members.
Hithertofore this same gentlemans pate has been 
protected from public gaze by a kady that was 
unique in its antiquity. It was said to have been 
made somewhere near the time when Napoleon 
Bonaparte delivered his celebrated speech of Give 
me liberty or give me death.
That this antiquated dome-garment which, by the 
way, resembled that worn by Mr. A. Mutt, would 
have gone down unto the distant descendants of 
Luther M. Patterson was a foregone conclusion.
But, be that as it may, the best laid schemes o 
mice and men gan aft agley. So in the course of 
events, whatever plans Luther may have had bear
ing upon the destiny of his much-coveted hat were 
rudely dashed to the ground by the bureau of health, 
which, after much discussion and expostulation 
with the owner of said bonnet took the law into its 
own hands and confiscated the noxious lid. The 
new covering that now adorns Luthers nut is a 
creation which has all the appearances of a five 
dollar Stetson guaranteed fourteen karats and of 
unlimited wearing quality. Heres wishing Patty 
many happy returns.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
true
values
4*
I riL B. & B.

true
values
mens
Mens
Mens
Men's
Mens
clothing cut
$50.00 Suits, $35.00. 
$35.00 Suits, $25.00. 
$25.00 Suits, $18.50. 
$20.00 Suits, $14.50.
Mens $15.00 and 16.50 Suits, $12.50.
BOGGS & BUHL
V * 4* / * * 4* * 4* * 4* * 4* * 4*? 4* 
4y4**N4-\4*\4*\4*\4*\4*%4*VI*\4*%4*S4*\4'\4*\4*VS-\4*\4*\>
*ONO\O\O\OV:>\O\ONO\O\O\a*Q\QN0\0\O\
0  0 ? O ? o g / o /> 
?
$4,000,000 O 
$3,200,000  * 0a **0VOXOSO\OKOVGVOXO\OVOVOKOVOVOXOVO\r>
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
+09 f IFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS -
A. G. SPALDING4 BROS.
THE SPALDING
TRADE-MARK
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of Quility.
ire the Largest Manufacturers in the World ol
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
IF YOU
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
are interested tn 
Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHATS NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa.
Bell Phone
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
538 Pittsburg I.lfe Building
Iiberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Kitll Dress Suits, Tuxedos. Prince 
Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.
i#4,4,4*4"M,v,X*-*s*4*4,iI,4,4*4I*,I"':'~*v4*'I,'***i4-4**!>'i'
4*444<
For specials occasions when you want the best try Duquesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 
Highland and Center Avenues, East End
5g 5..5..K......5...5. it.))*it?
Bell Phone 
I2I2-J Schenley
N|OswO|Oa ldW
Cleaning, Dyeing, 
Repairing and Pressing
EKOS.
Merchant Tailors327 South Craig St.Pittsburg, Pa.
SJ3J3MSj3Mi3EESMSMSJ3M3M3M3M3IEM3i315M3M5iSM
OX0V0X0X0X0X0V0%0*0X0%0X0%0*0X0*0X0% * 00 THE SCHENLEY FARMS */ 0
^ The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh 
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and q 
2 profit. '
0 ?w\OXOV0*O%O\O\O!tkOXONOX0%0\OXOS'0\0\0S
44^44444!4444444'4444444444444444444*44,*4**4tt+4f
*4*?f4*
Belleiield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome 
4*4*4*4*4**1*4*4* 4t4*4*4*4*4*4*>I*4>4,4e4*44,4*4*4>4>4*44,iI*4<4,4*4*4*4?
i*4*4*4**4*4*4*4**4*4**4*4*4*4*4*A4*4*4*
\4A4*\4A4*\4*\4*\4\4*\4*\4*Vfr\4\4*V&V4*V:*V:V!V: ^ . %4*VJ\4*\
The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the Worlds Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING 
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie.
VI*\*:*N4*V: 4*N4*\4*\4*\4*V4*N4*\4*N4*N4*N4*\,!*\4*\4*N4*\4,\4*N4*\4*\4*X
