VOL. 49No. 27 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TlTES., MAY 15, 1956
Dr. R. E. Parshall 
Will Head SP&W
Dr. Raymond E. Parshall has been appointed Director of the 
Division of Studeftt Personnel and Welfare to succeed Dr. Douglas 
F. Miner, who is retiring. Dr. Parshall will assume his new duties 
on July 1, and at that time will relinquish his present position as
assistant to Dr. Warner. ?---------------------------------------------------------
Although seldom seen by the
majority of Tech students, Dr. 
parshall has been one of the bus
iest persons on campus. In addi
tion to being assistant to the 
president, be has been serving as
Dr. Raymond E. Parshall
To Head Personnel and Welfare
secretary of the Executive Board, 
assistant secretary to the execu
tive committee of the Board of 
Trustees, secretary of the educa
tional policy committee, associate
gofessor of English, and campus 
dviser for the Fulbright, Mar
shall, and Rhodes scholarships.
24 Years Here 
Dr. Parshall graduated from the 
College of Wooster, in Wooster, 
Ohio and took graduate work at 
Yale University, earning a PhD 
in English in 1935. Prior to the 
completion of his studies, he 
taught English at Salem, Ohio, 
High School for a year and at 
0irnegie Tech for three years. 
Since leaving Yale, he has been 
at Tech continuously.
In 1938, Dr. Parshall was pro
moted to assistant professor of 
English. He became assistant to
Carnegie Summer 
School To Include 
Varied Courses
The thirty-eighth summer ses
sion at Carnegie Tech will offer 
six and eight week courses for the 
convenience of students, teachers 
and other professional workers.
Instruction in chemistry, engi
neering, architecture, drawing, 
mathematics, physics, economics, 
English, history, modern lan
guages, and psychology will begin 
June 11 and end August 4.
Six-week courses in music, 
painting and design, printing, psy
chology, and education will begin 
two weeks later, June 25.
Closer Instruction
Carnegies summer courses are 
of the same quality as those pro
vided during the regular academic 
year. Major difference during the 
summer is that the classes are kept 
faculty members 
more intimate acquaintance with 
the educational problems of the 
individual student.
A visiting lecturer in the de
partment of music this year will 
be Don Craig, choral director of 
NBCs Telephone Hour and for
merly of Fred Warings Radio 
Glee Club. Mr. Craig will conduct 
a graduate class in choral techni
ques and organize a chorus to 
which undergraduates and high 
school students will be admitted.
Detailed information on other 
courses offered in the Carnegie 
Summer Sessions can be obtained 
from the director of summer ses
sions.
The eighth and final program in 
the Tech Community Forum 
series will be presented tonight 
in From 100 Porter Hall from 
7:00 to 8:30 p.m. Professor Emthe president, then Dr. Doherty, ' erson M. Pugh ^of the physics de 
in 1946, and associate professor of * * " n ^T
Dr. Pugh At Last 
Meeting Of Forum
English two years later. From 1947 
to 1948, he was president of the 
Tech chapter of the American As[Continued on page 8]
President Warner 
Receives Honor
On April 23, Dr. J. C. Warner 
along with 29 other leading scient
ists in the country, was elected a 
member of the National Academy 
of Science. Dr. Warner was elect
ed in a joint session of the en
gineering and chemistry sections.
was chosen to become a part 
of the chemistry division of the 
Academy.
The National Academy of Sci
ence has a long laurel-wreathed 
history behind it. It was establish
ed by an act of Congress and ap
proved by President Lincoln on 
March 3, 1863. Its purpose is to 
further the cause of science and 
to advise the Federal Government 
iflj|scientific and technical matters.
Frederick D. Rossini, head of 
the chemistry department, is also 
 member of the Academy.
partment will discuss Some Im
pacts of Science and Technology 
on Society  After Protessor 
Pughs presentation there will be 
an open question and answer 
period. All members of the Tech 
community are invited to attend.
This series of eight monthly 
lectures was established at Tech 
this year to encourage intellectual 
development and interest in na
tional affairs and has been well 
attended.
Plii Kappa Phi
The initiation of newly 
elected members of the Car
negie Chapter of Phi Kappa 
Phi will be held on Thursday, 
May 17, 1956, at The Church 
of the Redeemer, 5700 Forbes 
Street, at 5:15 p.m. Dinner 
will follow in the Parish 
House at 6:45 p.m. The dinner 
speaker will be Kenneth H. 
Fagerhaugh, librarian of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, whose subject will be 
The CIT Library  Past, 
Present, and Future.
Events
All organizations planning 
an all-school event for the 
school year, 1958-57, please 
turn in the name of the or
ganization and the time and 
place of the event to Cissie 
Rafferty, Dean of Students 
Office, AH 150 before 4:30 on 
Monday, May 21.
Mrs. R. L. Hackett
Acting Dean Resigns
Dr. Martha c. Foy
New Dean Of Women
Dorm Constitution 
Revised For More 
Flexibility In Fall
At its last meeting. Dorm Coun
cil elected as its president for 
next year, Benton Jones and as 
property custodian, Ted Gallo. 
The remaining officers will be 
elected next fall. *
In line with the newly ratified 
Student Council constitution. 
Dorm Council has likewise 
amended its constitution rather 
drastically. Instead of the four 
man representation of each dor
mitory on the Council this repre
sentation has now been modified 
to the form used by CFP. Each 
dormitory unit, of which there 
are nine, will elect their officers 
as usual; but only the president 
of each dormitory unit will serve 
as a representative to Mens 
Dorm Council.
Needed: Resident Interest
As is presently the case with 
each fraternity, it will be the 
duty of each resident to contact 
the president or officers in their 
particular dormitory unit if there 
is any business which they want 
called to the attention of the 
Council. It is the duty of each 
Council member (each dormitory 
president) to relay any business 
[Continued on page 8]
Mrs. Hackett Resigns; 
Dr. Foy Is New Dean
Accepts Carnegie 
Library Position
Mrs. R. L. Hackett, ac^ng dean 
of women since July, 1954, is leav
ing Tech this summer tp join Car
negie Library. She will work with 
Dr. Munn, director of the library, 
in an administrative capacity.
During her two very active 
years as acting dean, Mrs. Hackett 
has had a large number and var
iety of responsibilities, including 
Morewood, except for food service 
and maintenance operations, the 
Union, and new graduate womens 
house. She has been in close con
tact with both Margaret Morrison 
and Fine Arts, and a healthy rela
tionship between the academic 
deans and department heads, and 
the acting dean has been a char
acteristic of the office.
One of the innovations during 
Mrs. Hacketts term of office has 
been the school calendar. This 
weekly bulletin, which is now ac
cepted as one of the regular and 
essential customs at Tech, was a 
tough job to get started. The -in
creasingly large number of re
quests for it is indicative of the 
effectiveness of the calendar. Act[Continued on page 8J
Dr. Hall Leaves CIT After Six 
Years For Erie Hospital Post
Dr. Snowden K. Hall, head of the department of student health, 
will retire from Carnegie Tech at the end of next month. He will 
join the staff of the Veterans Administration Hospital at Erie, Pa.
Dr. Hall has been at Tech since 
1950, and due to his 
11 in the art of human rela
tions, he has made many friends 
in his six years here. Although 
jokes have been heard about his 
pill cures, Dr. Hall has, in the 
words of Dr. Warner, established 
the best student health program 
we have ever had.
Before coming to Tech, Dr. Hall 
was on the staffs of Presbyterian 
and Shadyside Hospitals, and 
from 1916 to 1952, he held the 
post of chief of staff at both the 
Zoar Home in Allison Park and 
the Protestant Home for Incur
ables in Pittsburgh.
A graduate of Geneva College, 
Dr. Hall received his MD decree 
from Hahnemann Medical College 
in Chicago and served his intern
ship at Shadyside Hospital. He 
was acting superintendent of 
Shadyside Hospital for a while 
prior to World War I. During the 
war, he served as a captain in the 
army.
Dr. Hall has Expressed his re
gret at leaving Tech, but he feels 
that his new position will afford 
him more time for his tw^ fa
vorite hobbies, fishing and photo
graphy.
Former Methodist 
Student Director
Dr. Martha E. Foy, at present 
the director of Methodist student 
work in Pittsburgh, has been 
chosen to be the new dean of wo
men at Carnegie Tech. She will 
take over this summer when Mrs. 
Hackett leaves.
Miss Foy has an extensive 
background of work with stu
dents. She has taught English and 
social studies in high schools and 
has lectured in sociology at the 
University of Pittsburgh. In ad
dition to teaching, she did relig
ious education work in Ba'dwin 
borough prior to her present posi
tion.
Following her graduation frorr 
Greenville College in Illinois 
! Miss Foy spent three years as a 
! technical librarian for the Alu
minum Company of America 
After earning a M.Litt. degree 
from Pitt, she was a specialist 
teacher in the U. S. Navy. Latet. 
she taught in Schenley Hign 
School and at Pitt.
In 1953, she received a Ph.D. in 
sociology from Pitt and has since 
been concerned with the Metho
dist students at Pitt, Tech. ana 
Chatham. This job has involved 
keeping in touch with the students, counseling committee 
meetings, planning interfaith ac
tivities, and, in general, working 
with offices such as Mr. Gibsons 
here at Tech.
As dean of women, Dr. Foy will 
j be in an administrative position 
j which is greatly involved with the 
student welfare, and which afords the opportunity for a tie-in 
of educational objectives and extra-curricu r participation into 
the overall student development.
Dr. Foy feels that her new posi
tion is a great challenge, and that 
in a school such as Carnegie Tech 
with such a diversity of inhabi
tants, this diversity makes the job 
even more challenging.
Dr. Snowden K. Hall
Retiring From Tech
Long-Term Loans
All students who will need 
long-term loans for the fall 
semester should place an ap
plication in Dr. Miners of
fice, AH 154, before school is 
finished in June.
Music Department 
Recital Scheduled 
For Next Monday
The brass and woodwind en
sembles at Carnegie Tech will 
present a joint recital Monday. 
May 21.
The program will be given in 
Exhibition Hall, College of Fine 
Arts at 8:30 p.m. and consists ot 
Providibam Dominus by Orlandus di Lassus, Gabrielis Canzon Septimi Toni, No. 1, Moz
arts Serenade in E flat Major, N-o. 
11, Variations and Scherzo by 
Roy Jesson, and Music for Brass 
and Timpani by James Marks.
Student Louisa Hazen, cello 
and Claude Marks, bassoon, will 
play Mozarts Sonata in B flat Ma
jor. Aurics Trio for Oboe, Clar
inet and Bassoon will be played 
by students, Joseph Harris, oboe. 
Michael Clara, clarinet, and 
Claude Marks, bassoon.

---------------------------------------------------

631
LIBERTY
AYE.
Phone
COurt
1-1880
SUMMER 
EMPLOYMENT
Earn $3-$5 an hour in a 
business of your own.
Full or part time this summer, 
and then part time next semes
ter. 52 year old company with 
a fully guaranteed product that 
EVERYONE uses.
? Repeat orders oil yeor
? Free training
? Free samples
ROOM 518 EMPIRE BLDG. 
507 LIBERTY AYE. 
AT. 1-8139See Your Chevrolet Dea I e r
Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 15, 1956
For the second year, Claude W. 
Jenkins placed first in the John 
Adams forsensic competition held 
at Foster Memorial last week. 
Claude, batter known as Skip, 
spoke before a large audience at 
the Sun Telegraph sponsored ora
torical events. He and the high 
school oratory winner, who also 
won last year, will again go to 
the zone finals. Last year Skip 
won the Robert E. Lee county 
finals and was a participant in 
the Mid-West finals in Detroit. 
This year he hopes to go on to the 
end of the compeition.
Aside from the $250 in savings 
bonds awarded to the two victors, 
the Hearst newspapers present 
them with $50 each for reaching 
the zone finals. One of Techs out
standing Shakespearean actors, 
Skip was one of the schools three 
Fulbright winners this year.
Sam N. Gibson Accepts 
Post At Penn State
Sam N. Gibson has resigned his position as coordinator of re
ligious affairs and executive of the Carnegie Tech YMCA effective 
July 1. He has accepted the position of Executive Director of the 
University Christian Association at Pennsylvania State University.
Mr. Gibson came to Carnegie ?---------------------------------------------------------
Tech two years ago after graduate
study at Yale University and 
Y.M.C A. work at the University 
of Nebraska. While at Tech he 
has assisted in the implementaMr. Sam N. Gibson
Going To Penn State
tion of the new plan to give reli
gious activities a more meaning
ful place in the life of the campus.
He has served as staff member 
of the YMCA, the Student Chris
tian Federation Council, and the 
Committee on Religious Activi
ties. He has also served in an ad
visory capacity .to the Campus 
Chest Committee and the Inter
national Club.
The University Christian Asso
ciation at Penn State represents 
the united work of the YMCA, 
the YWCA, the major Protestant 
denominations, and the Eastern 
Orthodox churches. Mr. Gibson 
will also serve as the Chief Pro
testant Counselor to the Univers
ity.
Noted Metallurgist 
Will Speak Here
Dr. F. D. Richardson, noted 
English scientist who arrived in 
Pittsburgh this week, will address the American Institute of 
Mining and Metallurgical Engi
neers, Thursday, May 17.
During a weeks visit here, the 
world-wide metallurgical author
ity will also address a seminar at 
Carnegie Tech, appear on WQEDs 
Keys to the City, and inspect the 
citys steel-making facilities. The 
Tech seminar will be held in the 
SI A auditorium at 4:00 p.m., Tues
day, May 15.
Currently head of the Nuffield 
Research Group in Extractive 
Metallurgy at the Royal School of 
Mines in London, Dr. Richardson 
pioneered the application of fun
damental science to the making of 
steel. He was a commander in 
the RoyA Navy during World War 
II, a Commonwealth Fellow at 
Princeton University between 1937 
and 1939 and before joining the 
Nuffield group was superintending 
chemist of the British Iron and 
Steel Research Association.
His lecture before the AIME, 
The Chemistry of Sulfur in Iron 
and Steelmaking, will follow a 
dinner meeting beginning at 6:30 
in the Gateway Plaza.
Scholarship
The 1955-56 Carnegie Cam
pus Chest will grant a scholar
ship approximating $200.00 to 
an undergraduate foreign stu
dent to be applied to tuition, 
room, or board for the school 
year 1956-57. Those desiring 
to be considered must sub
mit their names to the Office 
of Student Welfare and Per
sonnel and an application 
(forms obtainable at k)r. 
Miners Office) before May 
25. The scholarship represents 
5% of the total Chest funds 
allocated to a Tech special 
project.
Debates May 
End Apathy
By Lu Fields
With the national elections right 
around the corner, interest in poltics should be becoming more in
tense. So far on campus the only 
group which is showing any ac
tivity is still in the process of get
ting organized. An attempt was 
made on the part of the faculty to 
organize a mock political conven
tion this spring, but the idea re
ceived little response.
From this, it would seem that 
there are not too many students 
on campus that are interested in 
the elections coming up in No
vember. Whether students can 
vote or not, it is of vital import
ance that they begin to take an 
interest in the political activity 
around them. Mr. Fenton, associ
ate professor of history, says that
Drive with care . .. everywhere!
Claude W. Jenkins 
Wins John Adams 
Oratorical Contest
HOT PERFORMERS .
with heart-warming prices!
the lack of student interest in po
litical events is alarming. He com
pared Tech to a school like Har
vard which has several very 
strong and active political groups. 
With such a contrast, Tech fails 
miserably.
Political Debates 
To enlighten the student body, 
it has been suggested that at the
very beginning of the coming fall 
semester, debate teams be set up. 
Each team would be supporting a 
different candidate and each team 
would consist of a student and a 
faculty member. Such a panel 
will undoubtedly create rousing 
discussions and be well worth the 
effort of the debaters as well a% 
everyone else. *
44One-Fifty 2-door Sedanwith beautiful Body by Fisher!Two-Ten 2-door Sedanone of 20 frisky new Chevroletsl
The One-Fifty and 
Two-Ten Series bring 
you Chevrolet's sassy 
styling and record-breaking road action at prices 
you'll warm up to fast!
You wont find us playing favor
ites. You get the same lively power 
in Two-Ten and One-Fifty 
models that you do in Bel Airs. Up 
to 225 h.p.! The same performance, 
toothe wide-awake kind that 
rates Chevy the peppiest, easiest 
handling car on the road!
And look at the model choice 
youve got. Twenty in all, including 
four hardtopstwo of them TwoTens. Six station wagonsthree 
Two-Tens and one One-Fifty. 
So even among the lower priced 
Chevrolets you have plenty of 
choice. Come in and look them over!
DRESS
Cental
Bel Air Sport Sedanhere's your buy for the most luxury and distinction in Chevrolet's fieldJ 
AIR CONDITIONING-TEMPERATURES MADE TO ORDER-AT NEW LOW COST. LET US DEMONSTRATE.
WE RENT
 Summer Formals
 Tuxedos
 Cutaways
 Full Dress
 All Formal Accessories
Perfect fit. Complete new stocks 
and complete range of sizes. 
Fast, dependable Kings service. 
For your next formal, call

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 15, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
Blossom Tea
There will be a Blossom Tea on 
May 16 from 3:30 to 5:30 in the 
Carnegie Union in honor of home 
economies seniors. All other home 
ec students will be welcome.. r : - - .-V '
Tau Beta Pi
The Carnegie Tedh chapter of 
Tau Beta Pi, national engineering
honorary, has elected the follow
ing officers for the coming year: 
president, Terry Sharp; vice pres
ident, Lou Salvador; recording 
secretary, Bob Russell; corres
ponding secretary, Dave Stea; 
treasurer^ John Leonard; cata
loguer, Dave Clement. .
Scabbard and Blade
Scabbard and Blade, national
advanced course ROTC honorary, 
has elected the following officers 
for the year 1956-57: captain, Lou 
Salvador; first lieutenant, Dave 
Bushmire; second lieutenant, Ker
ry Aquadro; and first sergeant, 
Ferd Sauerisen. At the last meet
ing, the Scabbard and Blade mem
bers who will be attending sum
mer camp heard Major Curry and 
Lieutenant Jarvis speak on what 
can be expected at this years 
training session.
AIEE-IRE Officers
The Carnegie Tech student 
AIEE-IRE has eltcted Bob Detig 
chairman for the coming year. 
Vice chairman is Dave Bushmire, 
treasurer, Dick Abraham, and IRE 
representative, Dick Scholes.
ASME Elections
The Carnegie Tech student 
branch of ASME has elected the 
following officers for the coming 
year: Dave Stea, chairman; John 
Herbert, vice chairman; John 
Wesner, secretary; Louis Wunder
lich, treasurer.
YMCA Elections
On May 8 the YMCA installed 
its newly elected officers at a 
joint banquet with the YWCA. 
The new officers are: president, 
Tom Harrison; vice - president, 
Bob French; recording secretary, 
Chuck Davis; and treasurer, Don 
Tellalian.
These were elected by the 
branch council on April 15. At this 
time three members of the Tech 
faculty were elected for a three 
year term on the committee of 
management. These are Jack 
Johnson, Truman Kohman, and 
Gaylord Penney. An alumni mem
ber and Rev. Hugh Clark of the 
.Church of the Redeemer were 
also elected to the committee.
At a later date heads of the 
different committees will be ap
pointed by the officers. The com
mittee of management will also 
begin planning the policy, and it 
has been suggested that a board 
be set-up consisting of YM and 
YW members so that the two or
ganizations can work together 
more closely in the future.
YWCA Officers
The new YWCA officers are: 
president, Mary Ellen Timmons, 
vice president, Dee Denari, secre
tary, M. J. Stevens, and treas
urer, Beth Liden. Committee 
chairmen are: forum, Dee Denari; 
projects, Evi Schmidt; program. 
Nancy Fox and SCFC representa
tive, Janet Kirshler. Carolyn Hy
att will be in charge of the BigLittle Sister program next year.
PR Officers
The Carnegie Tech Chapter, 
National Society of Pershing 
Rifles, wishes to inform the cam
pus that the following officers 
have been elected for the coming 
year: Terry Sharp, commander; 
Donald C. Cronauer, executive of
ficer; Lewis Sowell, adjutant; Stan 
Z i o n t s, S-l (secretary); John 
Wesner, S-2 (publicity); Jack D. 
Brown, S-3 (pledges); Richard 
Tauson, S-4 (supply); Richard 
Flock, 'rifle captain; Tom Sheffler, 
first sergeant.
P/Rs last major activity for this 
school year will be an exhibition 
of basic trick drill at the Presi
dents Review ROTC Parade.
Living in 
Pittsburgh 
This Summer?
The Theta Xi House has ap
proximately 10 vacancies 
for Summer occupancy. 
Rent ranges from $23-$29 
per month, and includes 
kitchen privileges. Students 
working in Pittsburgh dur
ing the Summer, preferred. 
Call Paul Laughner at MU 
3-1388.
--------------------------------------------------
Delta Skull
At the meeting on Sunday, May 
13, Delta Skull initiated into mem
bership the men who were called 
at Call Day. The following officers 
were elected for the coming year: 
president, Marlyn Jakub; vice 
president, Rhody Stephenson; sec
retary, Ken Wilkins; and treas
urer, Bob Marik.
Phi Tau Gamma
The recently tapped members 
of the junior womens honorary, 
Phi Tau Gamma, made Sally Day 
their president for the coming 
year. Others elected to offices were 
Lois Griffin, vice president, Kay 
Melenyzer, secretary, and Sally 
Ambrose, treasurer. Lyn Carman 
was elected to serve as editor and 
Jo Lacey as activities chairman 
for the group. The new members 
were initiated on Sunday.
Mortar Board
Mortar Board held their elec
tions for the 1956-57 officers on 
Sunday, May 13. Evelyn Alessio, 
an English major in Margaret 
Morrison and a former member 
of both Cwens and Phi Tau Gam
ma, is the new president. Vice 
president, secretary, and treasurer 
are Hannah Oppenheimer, Nancy 
Gardner, and Mary McClure, re
spectively, while the editor and 
historian is Marjo King. Initiation 
was held yesterday evening at 
Carnegie Union.
Civic Light Opera 
Will Present Six 
Hits This Summer
The Greater Pittsburgh Civic 
Light Opera Season, opening July
2 at Pitt Stadium, fealures six of 
Broadways most successful mu
sical hits. This summers Theatre 
Under the Stars presentations in
clude The King and I, for the 
week beginning July 2; Annie 
Get Your Gun, July 9; Kismet, 
July 16; Plain And Fancy, July 
23; Desert Song, July 30; and 
South Pacific, August 6. Top 
Broadway and television stars are 
scheduled to sing the major roles.
As an added inducement, the 
Civic Light Opera Guild is once 
again offering its First Nighter
Irish Thespians 
Here During One 
Week Engagement
Returning here from Ireland, 
the Dublin Players are now mak
ing their fifth coast to coast tour 
of the United States and Canada. 
They will play a 12-performance 
engagement at the International 
Theatre, Crafton Heights, opening 
on Tuesday evening, May 15, with 
George Bernard Shaws Arms 
and the Man, a hilarious comedy.
The schedule of performances 
and plays is as follows:
May 15  8:40  Shaws Arms* 
and the Man.
May 17  8:40  Oscar Wildes 
great comedy, An Ideal Hus
band.
May 188:40The Irish Com
edy, Money Doesnt Matter.
May 19  matinee  2:40  
Shaws Pygmalion.
May 19evening8:40Shaws 
Arms and the Man.
May 20  matinee  2:40An 
Ideal Husband.
May 20evening8:40Pyg
malion.,
May 218:40Arms and the 
Man.
May 228:40An Ideal Hus
band.
May 23matinee2:40Arms 
and the Man.
May 23  evening  8:40  
Money Doesnt Matter.
This seasons tour will set a rec
ord involving more than 30,000 
miles of travel for the players.
Club Membership to all university 
and high school students. This of
fer, which is open to all CIT stu
dents, entitles the holder of a Club 
Membership Identification Card, 
the cost of which is fifty cents, to 
attend the six Monday night per
formances and to buy any seat at 
the Stadium at half price. In the 
event of rain, tickets may be ex
changed for other performances.
Students wishing to take ad
vantage of this opportunity should 
obtain the necessary application 
blank from either the office of the 
dean of students in AH or from 
the office of the department of 
music in Fine Arts.
MaxShuJman
24Years rH ClosIHrre lrn tuea caIIiTh Iefwy
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
1 always find myself yawning hugely when a comedian, 
having finished his act, steps out in front of the curtain, 
takes off his putty nose, assumes a sincere stance, and de
livers an oration full of tender and lofty sentiments.
So how come Im doing precisely the same thing right now ?
Two reasons. First, because I couldnt possibly make you 
laugh at this time of the year; cramming for finals has left 
you wan, woebegone, and in no mood for innocent merriment.
Second, because this is the last column of the current 
series, and Id be a liar if I didnt admit I was just a tiny 
bit choked up.
It was two years ago that the makers of Philip Morris 
asked me to write this column. My first impulse, frankly, 
was to say no. Though I am a man who likes a dollar as well 
as the next fellow, my talents just do not seem to lead me 
in the direction of writing advertising copy. When called 
upon to rhapsodize about soap or sox or cigarettes, I get to 
giggling uncontrollably and have to be helped home.
Buddies, said I to the makers of Philip Morris, I smoke
^ Philip Morris myself, and I think its a jim-dandy cigarette.
'** But thats all I think it is  a cigarette. Not a graven image. 
Not a love object. Just a smoke. Im afraid I cant get rev
erent enough to write ad copy for you.
To my astonishment, they seemed delighted. Reverence 
is not required, said the people at Philip Morris. They as
sured me that I would not be required to write fulsome com
mercials  that I could rib the cigarette and the company all 
I liked that my columns would be mine alone, with no 
editing:, no suggestions, and no supervision.
Hah! I said by way of reply.
r$ But they kept insisting and finally, my thin breast full of 
misgivings, I went to work.
For the first few weeks they were scrupulously true to 
their words. Not one syllable, not one comma, was ever 
changed; not one quarter-ounce of pressure was ever exerted. 
But my doubts were not laid to rest. When will the honey
moon be over? I kept asking myself.
The answer, gentle readers, is that the honeymoon is 
still going on. This finishes my second year for Philip Morris. 
During that time, though Im sure my copy caused an occa
sional conniption fit in the boardroom, my carte blanche has 
remained as blanche as the day it was issued. Whatever Ive 
perpetrated in this column has been, as they guaranteed, 
mine alone. ^
Theyve been living dolls, the makers of Philip Morris, 
and I think I may be forgiven for getting a trifle misty. And 
long as the stops are out, let me say that its also been a 
big charge writing for you, the college population of America. 
Your response has warmed my old heart, and on the occasions 
when Ive visited your campuses, its been deeply gratifying 
to see that youre still as pleasantly disorganized as ever.
I figure that as long as the likes of you exist, Im in business. 
So, for now, goodbye. Stay well. Stay happy. Stay loose.
Max Shulman, 1956
Old Max has said it all. We, the makers of Philip Morris, can only 
add a heartfelt second chorus: Stay well. Stay happy. Stay loose.i _________
The secrettheyre SYNCHRO-DYNED I
Theyre called the sweetest playing clubs in the book, and 
for good reason. Spaldings exclusive SYNCHRO-DYNED 
club process, a scientifically exact system of weight coordi
nation, gives each club in the set the identical swing and, 
contact feel to help groove your swing.
And this new Bobby Jones set is as handsome as they come. 
The irons feature an exclusive tough alloy steel with a 
glistening high-polish finish that lasts season after season.
If youre interested in whittling strokes off your game (and 
who isnt?) see and swing the 1956 Bobby Jones SYNCHRO-, 
dyned clubs at your Spalding dealers.
VOL. 49LONo2 7OCAR Lo ELOORGgolfs most winning 
combination.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 15, 195
Editorials
Looking Backtvards
The year 1955-56 has been one of change, revival and 
innovation. The spirit which has been increasingly apparent 
may be attributed to a number of causes, not the least of 
these, a cooperative administration and two alert and ambi
tious senior honararies. The enthusiasm of both groups has 
resulted in a series of leaders conferences to be continued in 
the future, which in turn has brought about the investigation 
and renovation of activities and the intercollege situation.
While probably the most important single contribution 
of the ODKMortar Board, administration and leaders con
ference combination is the new, recently ratified Student 
Council, the committees of investigation on such specific 
issues as the over-emphasis of competition on campus, intercollege integration, and commuter participation in activi
ties have been working constantly and diligently toward the 
solution of these major campus problems. The new Student 
Council itself will contribute to the solution, but the work of 
these committees has been invaluable in the advancement to
ward the ultimate goal of unity and spirit at Carnegie Tech.
While ODK and Mortar Board were working on the 
Student Council revision and some of their other major 
projects, another group was investigating such problems as 
student attitudes on campus, student participation at a 
higher level (that is, the expression of student opinion in ad
ministrative and academic areas), the new union, and the re
vision of the White Book. This group, the Undergraduate 
Advisory Committee, was revived this year from its rather 
inactive status by the administration to provide greater rap
port between the administration and student body (there is 
also a faculty advisory committee).
Perhaps one of the most successful meetings was a din
ner with the president and the academic deans, at which time 
the exchange of opinions between the students and the faculty 
gave to each a much better appreciation of the aims and 
ideas of the other groups and brought about further investi
gation of potential problems on the part of the deans.
in more specialized areas considerable advancementwas 
also evidenced this year. Campus Chest is a major example 
of what can be and was done by the efforts of an interested 
and well-organized group. While the increase over last year 
of the amount collected is indicative of the success, the fact 
that the Campus Chest Conference in Philadelphia a few 
weeks ago chose Carnegie Tech for the model Campus Chest 
is certainly cause for pride of accpmplishment.
Panhellenic Council, contrary to the beliefs of some, has 
been working all year on a new rushing system which will 
be initiated next fall during rush week, and CFP has finally 
started an interfraternity advisory council composed of facul
ty and alumni. Citcom, too, has been revived through the 
interest and hard work fo some of the members and may, 
through further revision, develop into a leading organiza
tion on campus.
Finally, the number of activities keys given out this year 
is considerably larger than that of previous years, which 
seems to prove that more people than ever are becoming in
volved in extracurricular activities. But this hopeful note 
on which the year is closing should not make us compla
cent. The sad showing at the Student Council constitution 
ratification election should scare us into a greater awareness 
of what yet needs to be done. Both the students and the
administration have come far, despite a num-' 
ber of serious set backs, during the year 
1955-56. It is important now that this work 
be continued and expanded during 1956-57, 
and for many years to come.
S.A.M.
The Big Shift
Since this is the year's last issue, it is crowded 
with resignations, retirements,' and new appoint
ments. In fact, there have been so many of these 
in the past few weeks that some people might.be 
getting scared that everybody is leaving Carnegie 
Tech. 
To recapitulate* some of those who are retiring 
are Dr. Jones, vice president; Dr. Miner, director 
of student personnel and welfare, and Dr. Hall, 
head of student health. Dean Alexander of MMCC 
is taking a leave of absence after which she will 
retire. Among those leaving for reasons other than 
retirement are Dean Graham, Dean Hackett, and 
Mr. Gibson, coordinator of religious affairs. Several 
faculty members are also retiring or resigning.
Actually, there is no reason to fear for Techs 
future. Retirements have to be, and are, antici
pated. For the past few years, their number has
been extremely low, and it just happens that this
year, what seems like a great number of people 
have reached either the voluntary or the mandatory 
retirement age. The loss of these people is of con
siderable magnitude, but it has been planned for.
Resignations are more unexpected and can cre
ate bigger problems for the administration. How
ever, it has been the policy of Carnegie Tech to 
allow staff members to run their own lives, and if 
they want to accept offers of better positions else
where, Tech doesnt stand in the way of their 
personal advancement. Several good people have 
been lured away this year, and it is not our fault; 
it is a just coincidence that their big chances came 
.all at once.
Two big positions have recently been filled (see 
page one), and the year-long head of architecture 
vacancy was filled three months ago, But several 
key positions such as vice president, dean of MMCC, 
assistant to the president, head of the physics de
partment, and coordinator of religious affairs re
main open. Diligent efforts are being made to 
fill all of the vacancies as soon as adequate per
sonnel can be found.
The position of dean of men probably will not 
be filled for several months, and in the interim, 
the duties will be shared by Dr. Parshall, Dr. Strick, 
and Professor Earl Swank, who will be the new 
chairman of the committee on financial aid.
R.H.R.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8897; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Managing Editor ...................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Executive Editor.........................................................................................................Robert Russell
Associate Editor ..................................... ............................ ................... ................Marjo King
Associate Editor ........... ....................................................................................................Richard Fox
Business Manager .......................................................................................................Martin OstrOft
New* EditorAnn Forest, Sports EditorRobert Hoppe, Copy EditorEdwin 
Rogers, Assistant Business ManagerRobert Sorkin, Advertising ManagerRobert 
Peters, Circulation ManagerHarley Bernbach, SecretaryJoan Seidel.
ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Bob Jack, Sally Day, Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy 
Kahn, En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell, Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Joan Copnch, Anna Hatzfeld, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister. Fay Fisher, Carol Sooby, 
Nanc-ie Fedpath, Gene Anderson, A1 Federowicz, Arthur Marino, Lu Fields, Beth 
I.iden. Feature* StaffLuis de la Macorra, Marshall Pihl. Sports StaffDick 
Svirfne.v, Don McClelland, Tom Beig, Fred Heider. PhotographersJohn Philbrick, 
John Alexander. Art StaffDave Stea. Copy StaffBill Mowry, Ed Holsten, 
Jack Walker. Oftice StaffsMary Langdon, Ar.ne Barnes. Circulation StaffIra Le
vine, Jerry Kreuzer. Advertising StaffHerbert Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron 
Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered a* second class matter on ISTU i. 1907. at the Port Offic at 
Pittsburgh. Pa. under act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rates of postage provided for In the act of February 2, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
ox national advertising toy National Advertising, bse. CoUe#
Constitution Again
In case anyone is interested, the new student 
government constitution was passed last week by 
a proportion of over two to one. This is not 
unanimous by any means, but sufficient to show 
that the constitution is at least favorable to those 
who read it and took the time and effort to drop 
a vote in a ballot box. The A Phi Os at the polls 
were not exactly trampled by great throngs of eager 
voters, and the final tally was 163 for and 76 
against. This meager total out of over 2800 eligible 
voters is somewhat disheartening.
Of course the voting areas were not really well 
marked, and some of those who did vote did so 
only because they were curious about what kind 
of election was going on, and before they could 
back away from the tables a ballot was stuffed 
into their hands and their ID cards punched. But 
anyone who chanced to let his eye wander away 
from the Spring Carnival news in the last Tartan 
must certainly have seen something about a consittution ratification going on somewhere, and so 
the plebiscite should have been more of a true 
plebiscite. Maybe the solution to such small turn
outs at elections is to make the polls more attrac
tive, possibly by hiring professional dancers to en
tertain the voters. 
R.H.R.
Andy Wonders . . .
. . . How a person can graduate from col
lege and think he is educated, and yet, have 
never heard of Socrates and Plato, or any of the 
other great thinkers. Educated? No, just trained. 
* * *
... When some departments will realize its 
a bad investment to foist off their least capable in
structors onto the freshmen. Some students never 
get over the bad start . . .
*  *
When the President of Carnegie Tech will cease 
to be a desk-bound president and get out and meet 
some of the students; as it is, we meet him at orien
tation and graduation.
Inquiring Reporter
Carnival Rehashed
By Sally Pay
Spring Carnival is over for another year, but 
the discussion about it is not. The campus is still 
talking about the buggy races, the queen cam
paigns, and the booths. The TARTAN thought a^ 
that while Carnival was still fresh in the stu
dents minds, this column should be devoted to 
a discussion of the big yyeekend. N
Bill Branscome, senior,.Cfc-rCarnival \jras really 
great, but it is unfortunate? itf&t & few people have 
to do so much work to prepare for it. I think that 
we should concentrate more getting suitable and 
danceable bands than on getting big name bands.
John Goughnour, senior, printingI feel that 
Carnival is becoming too highly professional. Thii^ 
takes all the joy out of it. I think that there should 
be some sort of restriction put on the money that 
is spent on the booths, etc.
jack Barnard, senior, EEI enjoyed Carnival 
very much. I only object to the fact that some of 
the guys had to work so hard. They did not get 
a chance to enjoy the weekend. These people are 
in the minority. I was glad to see that the booth 
judging was not done on the basis of what was the 
most expensive and time consuming. This is a good 
trend. ' j j
Norm Achilles, junior, CEThe step toward get
ting bigger and better bands for Carnival is vei'y 
good. However, the trend to bigger and more ex
pensive booths is not good. I think that something 
should be done about the way in which the buggies 
are judged for design. In order to qualify for 
buggy design you have to place in the top half 
of the race. Sometimes a fraternity just does not 
have the pushers, but a very good buggy design. 
This isnt fair because not placing in the upper half 
doesn't necessarily show how good the design l J' 
Pushers are important for placing in the race.
Nancy Grasmick, sophomore, scienceI think 
that the skits in Skibo would be much better if 
the conditions were improved. For example, there 
should be more room and a better stage. There 
does not seem to be any reward for all the work 
that goes into the skits except for the court which 
is based mostly on the girls themselves rather than 
on the skits and the campaign.
Evelyn Alessio, junior, general studies^AV 
though Spring Carnival, as it is presently set 
serves a very definite and worthwhile purpose on 
the Tech campus, there are possible changes that 
might be made to improve the weekend and to 
make it even more appealing to Tech students and 
their guests. For instance, it might be well to deemphasize the Carnival Queen campaigns to the 
extent that the energies put into campaign skits 
would be directed to individual sorority skits to be 
presented on the Midway with no competitive ele
ment involved. In this way more people will bo 
reached by the skits and more Midway interest 
will be created. 1 may add a note of even further 
interest to enlist the talents of fraternity and dorm 
men in the skits and thus do away with fraternity 
booth competition. An independent womens entry 
could also be used.
All these suggestions are made with an eye to 
making Carnival more representative of Tech talent 
and more available to all who atend the Carnival 
festivities as well as to gain a better working rela
tionship between those groups generally consicj 
ered to be most involved in Carnival.
Nostalgia
Editor, the Tartan:
The May 1st Carnegie Tartanpage 10which 
covered the Tech Sweepstakes of May 14, 1920 
brought back a lot of nostalgiaas this writer was 
in charge of that event.
Little did we anticipate that SAE and PKA wou!  
end up in a tie. We had only one cup to presentbut 
the committee finally gave me another ten dollars 
to buy an additional trophy and we saved face, as 
the Japanese put it.
Even at that early datefraternities used track 
athletes to do the pushing as Red Godden found 
out to his sorrow with the ATO entry. I believe 
he was the one that the ambulance picked up!
By a far stretch of the imagination the current 
Chevrolet Sweepstakes held in the Akron Rubber 
Bowl annually may have used the Tech ideas 'M 
the basic pattern.
Currently in Chicago we are looking forward 
to seeing President Warner when he attends the 
Gibbs Annual Award dinner being held here on 
May 18th. Our alumni feel that Carnegie is very 
fortunate in having the type of leadership exem
plified by Jake Warner and the various deans of 
the schools at Tech. Nationally, the prestige of 
our school has made terrific strides under his able 
guidance. ^
R. E. Hedlund W
Eng.1922Theta Xi

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 15, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANFan* 5
nmtx*' oiVSj*. :> 
AFTER RECEIVING a B.A. 
in English from Brown 
University, Roy Stratton 
joined G.E. in 1952 in the 
Advertising and Public 
Relations Training Pro
gram. He worked as in
struction-book editor and 
advertising top? writer 
before his current job.
In The Sport-Lite
By Stanley Zionts
This week ^ we look at two topnotch Tech trackmencaptain of the field events and 
track events.
Jack Recker
During his high school days at 
Barnard School for Boys in New 
York City, Jack Recker was a 
W-nember of the football team, the 
basketball team, and the baseball 
team. These activities plus the 
many others in which he partici
pated kept Jack quite occupied.
In autumn of 1952 Jack came to 
Carnegie Tech. Although his par
ticipation in athletics was hamp
ered by an injury incurred in high 
school, he was able to play on the 
freshman basketball squad. ItC
asnt until his junior year though 
at Jack we*nt out for the track 
team, partly through the influ
ence of a friend.
His outstanding ability in the 
shotput and the discus has helped 
Jack to gain the position of cap
tain of the field events this year. 
His placing record to date this 
year is: Slippery Rockshotput,
3, discus, 2; Caseshotput, 2; 
W&Jshotput, tie, 1; Geneva 
J^hotput, 1; Westminstershotput,
1. In addition to varsity track, 
Jack plays in all intramurals for 
his fraternity, Alpha *Tau Omega.
Jack also ranks high in schol
astic standing. A senior in the de
partment of printing management, 
Jack is a member of Omicron 
Delta Kappa. Following his gradu
ation next month, Jack will work 
for the John S. Swift Co., New 
York, printers and lithographers. 
$ Dick Swaney
Dick Swaney, or Util as his 
friends 'know him, is a junior 
metallurgical engineer. Dicks in
terest in sports began at an early 
age. In Tarentum High School 
Dick played two years on the bas
ketball squad and was a member 
of the volleyball team for three 
years. Along with high school 
sports Dick was very interested in 
music. He played both the clar
inet and the saxophone.
Dick came to Carnegie Tech in 
1953. His cousin, Hap MacDonald, 
who was then a member of the 
track team, aroused Dicks interest 
in track. That spring Dick joined 
the track team. His superiority in 
the track events has led Coach 
Carman to select him along with 
Bill Bryant as co-captains of the 
track events this ye*ar.
His ability can be seen from this 
Vyears record. Dick has won or 
placed in the 440-yard dash in 
every meet so far and is a mem
ber of the consistently victorious 
mile relay team.
In addition to participating in 
varsity track, Dick is a member of 
the cross country team. In the 
line of intramural sports Dick par
ticipates in volleyball, football, 
softball, and basketball for Alpha 
rau Omega. Dick also enjoys 
writing and is a member of the 
Tmrtan sports staff.
-JacK Recker,
Tartans Pick Up Tico Firsts; 
Place Fifth In Tri-State Meet
A well-balanced Westminster track and field squad had little 
trouble in defending its tri-state crown last Saturday. The tough 
Titans acquired a total of 64 points to finish well ahead of the run
ner-up Slippery Rock Rockets who had 45 points.
In third place with 40-1/3 
points was Geneva, followed by 
Grove City with 32-1/3 points; 
Carnegie. Tech was fifth with 24- 
1/3 points; Washington and Jeff
erson, sixth with 15 points; Alle
gheny, seventh; and Edinboro, 
eighth.
Tech Sets Two Firsts
fifth in the two-mile run. In field 
events, Frank, Frick, and Mihm 
took third in the high jump, jave
lin and broad jump respectively. 
Recker got fifth place in shot put, 
and Hauser tied for fifth in high 
jump.
Homer Weaver of Geneva, who
Coach Carmans boys were able won the mile and half-mile, was 
to bring two firsts home to Tech. j voted the meets outstanding perDick Swaney, Techs top-ooint i former by the coaches. He and
getter all season, figured m on 
both first places. Swaney, won 
his specialty, the 440 dash, in the 
time of 51.4 seconds which was
0.4 seconds faster than he had 
previously run the quarter mile 
in competition.
The Tech Thinclad's other vic
tory was by the mile relay team 
which needed a strong finish to 
win that event. The mile relay 
team, consisting of Swaney, Bill 
Heinicke, Eric Suggs, and Bill 
Bryant, also hasnt been beaten 
this season.
Other point getters for the Skibos in the track events were
Westminsters DeBolt were 
meets only double winners.
dcrmeumYIb rm ogI
the
Meadville Golf 
Finds Tecli Second
By Pete Bos
In the last two weeks the Tar
tan linksmen have played in three 
golf contests. On May 3rd they 
played W&J and lost by a score 
of four to three, the deciding 
point being that of the rhedalist, 
W&Js Banko and Montlack, both 
of whom had 77. The matches 
came out even, Tech winning 
three and W&J winning three. 
For Tech Fred Heider was low 
man with a 79.
One of the bigger meets of the 
year came up on May 5th; the 
Meadville Invitational. Twelve 
teams played the par 72 course 
with W&J winning the team play 
with a 324 total. W&J has been 
undefeated this year so far. Six 
strokes behind for a team total 
dcrmeumYIb rm ogI 6]
Dick Swaney, co-captain of the j Whitman, who took third in the
I half mile and Bryant, who tookPepM-Cola Metropolitan Bottling: Co.. Pittsburgh 10. Fa.
What young people are doing at General Electric
Young ad man 
handles G-E jet 
and rocket engine 
advertising
The first jet engine ever to power an Ameri
can plane was built by General Electric in 
1942. Since 1948, G.E. has supplied the Air 
Force with over 30,000 of its famous J47 
jet engines. And General Electrics jet ex
perience soon will be paying additional new 
dividends to national defense. Its J79  
called the most advanced engine of its type 
in the worldwill soon enter production.
The man responsible for reporting G.E.s 
jet and rocket engine progress to its cus
tomers and the public is Roy O. Stratton, Jr., 
27-year-old account supervisor in the Com
panys Apparatus Advertising and Sales 
Promotion Department.
Strattons Work Important, Interesting
Stratton supervises the planning and prepa
ration of direct-mail promotion, brochures, 
films and presentations, as well as publicinformational space advertisements for Time, 
U.S. News & World, Report, Business Week, 
Aviation Week, and other magazines.
Considerable personal contact with the 
Armed Services makes Strattons job an in
teresting one. Last year he traveled over
60,000 miles, visiting many of the Countrys 
Air Force bases to gather necessary infor
mation and pictures.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Stratton came to General Electric in 
1952, he already knew the kind of work he 
wanted to do. Like each of our 25,000 col
lege graduates, he is being given the ch'ance 
to grow and realize his full potential. For 
General Electric has long believed this: when 
fresh young minds are given the freedom to 
develop, everybody benefitsthe individual, 
the Company, and the country.
Educational Relations, General Electric
Company, Schenectady 5, New York

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 15, 1956
KS Is Soccer Champ
One of the most exciting contests that Tech has seen yet this 
year in any I'M sport was battled out on the FPHA field last Thurs
day. The finals of the soccer championships pitted a polished BSR 
team against the aggressive KS squad. BSR was led by Ko Ko Lay, 
------------------------------------------------------?who scored five goals against the
Softball In Finals1 Clytie st'boys ln a 6~rout early
In several leagues the cham
pions were determined by Fri
day, and the others are now 
finished, although we have no in
formation on them.
The Delts won the Scot League, 
Citcom took the Thistle League, 
and the Obelisk team won easily 
in the Carnegie League. The Kil
tie League will finish in a tie be
tween KS and the Senior Chem 
Es unless the Chem Es take the 
crown by beating the Metals 
Club; SN A and the Forbes 
Street A. C. are still in the run
ning in the Skibo league, and 
ATO B and PK A are con
tending for Tech Legaue honors.
The Betas need one more win 
to take the Plaid League; but 
ASCE has a distant chance here. 
So far, the Obelisks look like the 
team to beat in the playoffs.
Track[Continued from page 5]
SUMMARIES
100-Yard Dash1Scungio. Westmin
ster; 2Glaser. Grove City; 3. Terry, 
Slippery Rock; 4Peters, Slippery Rock; 
5Fisher, Grove City. Time10.3.
220-Yard Dash  1-Terry, Slippery 
Rock; 2Scungio, Westminster; 3Glaser, 
Grove City; 4Fisher, Grove City; 4- 
Martinetti. Geneva. Time22.9.440-Yard Dash1Swaney, Carnegie 
Tech; 2- Pote. Westminster; 3Jan
sen, Grove City; 4Eash, Grove City; 
5Pebbles, Wash-Jeff. Time51.4.
Half-Mile Run1Weaver, Geneva: 2 
Jackson, Geneva; 3Whitman, Carne
gie Tech: 4Osuno. Westminster; 5
Larsen. Grove City. Time 2:01.7.
Mile Rub1Weaver, Geneva: 2
Dickinson, Slippery Rock: 3Sheraw,
Westminster; 4Farson. Wash-Jeff; 5 
Riotti. Allegheny. Time4:30.5.
Two-Mile Run1Jackson, Geneva;
2Farson. Wash-Jeff: 3Paul, Westmin
ster; 4Stewart. Westminster; 5Bry
ant, Carnegie Tech. Time10:30.8.
120-Yard High Hurdles1DeBolt. 
Westminster: 2Blackburn, Wash-Jeff; 3 
Yates. Slippery Rock; 4McRae. West
minster; 5Brower, Geneva. Time16.
220-Yard Low Hurdles1DeBolt, 
Westminster; 2Muno. Slippery Rock;
3Blackburn. Wash-Jeff; 4Yates. Slip
pery Rock; 5Masfieid, Westminster. 
Timo25.6.Mile Relay1Carnegie Tech (Heinin the season.
The same Ko Ko proved to be 
the nemesis of KS as he opened 
the contest with a hard-driven 
score. Jim Long evened the count 
at 1-1, but Ko Ko and Chuck got 
two quick goals for BSR, and the 
game appeared to be sewn up. 
Kappa Sig, however, had just be
gun to fight, and began taking 
the initiative with sweeps into 
BSR territory. This continued 
pressure paid off when Jim Long 
netted one for KS and his team
mate, Frank Herzig, followed suit 
shortly thereafter.
With the game knotted at 3-3 
when regulation time ran out, a 
sudden death overtime was start
ed. This period produced the 
fiercest play of the game, as both 
teams strove for the shot that 
would give them the trophy. Her
zig, who had scored the third goal 
to give KS a new lease on life, 
booted in another to send his team 
home victorious. And so, revenge 
was very sweet for the Kappa 
Sigs.
ecke, W. Bryant, Suggs, Swaney; 2- 
Geneva; 3Westminster; 4Slippery 
Rock: 5Grove City. Time3:32.6.
Shot Put1Simko, Geneva; 2Wall, 
Slippery Rock; 3Heald, Slippery Rock;
4Jackson, Westminster; 5Recker, Car
negie Tech. Distance44.4%.
High Jump1Tie between Davis, 
Westminster, and Palumbo, Slippery 
Rock,-3Frank. Carnegie Tech; 4Towns, 
Westminster; 5Tie among MeCraeken, 
Geneva; Hauser, Carnegie Tech, and Kovalyak, Grove City. Height6 V*.
Discus1George, Slippery Rock; 2 
Pastrick, Grove city; 3Jackson, West
minster; 4Pomroy, Allegheny; 5Wood, 
Westminster. Distance 1243/i*
Pole Vault1McCracken, Geneva; 2 
Tie between Hugo, Grove City and 
Simonsen, Slippery Rock; 4-Tie be
tween Seidner, Westminster and Kovalyk, Grove City. Height11-4.
Javelin1Lazor, Geneva; 2Patrick, 
Grove City; 3Frick, Carnegie Tech; 4- 
McCreedy. Westminster; 5Simms, WashJeff. Distance172-4.
Broad Jump1Walker, Westminster; 
2Davis, Westminster; 3Mihm. Carne
gie Tech: 4Batti, Grove City; 5Montedero. Edinboro. Distance2J-8 V*.Freshman Medley Relay1Wash-Jeff; 
2Slippery Rock; 3Grove City; 4 
Allegheny. Time3:52.6.
[Continued from page 5] 
of 320 and second place were our 
own men of the plaid. One of the 
highlights of the day was the tak
ing of medalist honors by Techs 
Tom Schorr, who posted a 75. Go
ing out, Tom had a blazing 34, hav
ing sunk chip shots on the first 
and third holes, besides having 
putted well. He faltered just a 
bit as his irons played tricks on 
the back nine to give him a 41. 
Fred Heider was second low man 
for the Tartans with an 81. Fedor 
and Fertal were the other two 
men who comprised the team.
On the day following Westmin
ster went down under the TarTech Netters End 
Mediocre Season
Coach Mosess netters passed an 
uneventful week as the two 
matches scheduled for the Tech 
men were cancelled because of 
rain and wet concrete. It has not 
been announced whether either 
match will be played.
The record now stands at a 
mediocre one and four. Next 
years prospects, however, look 
brighter if the returning players 
live up to the promise they .have 
shown. Sophomore Larry Dussair 
has looked good playing in the 
second singles slot and freshman 
Joe Smeets was impressive in his 
two matches. Juniors Carl Yu and 
A1 Naworski have been steady in 
their matches and should be valu
able nexV year.. Coach Moses 
hopes that with the experience 
gained this year freshmen Tom 
Bieg and Everett Crisman will do 
well next year.
Since this is the last Tartan 
issue this year, a tribute is due 
the seniors leaving this year, who 
are A1 Glaser, Steve Rowley, and 
Fran Wickham.
Attention
All teams be sure to check 
the Intramural bulletin board 
for the softball playoff sched
ule immediately.
tans attack, 12 to 6, on West
minsters home course. Heider, 
Hodnik, Kuhn, and Fedor won 
their matches for Tech, Heider 
being low man with a 79. Inci
dentally, Heider, only a freshman,
shows great promise for the futture. As far as that goes, Coach 
Rogers has three freshmen play
ing on the team this year, so it 
might be well to keep an eye on 
Techs golf team in the future.
That's where the pause that 
refreshes with ice-cold Coke began.
Now its enjoyed fifty million times a day.
Must be something to it. And there is. Have aa 
ice-cold Coca-Cola and see... right now.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Y 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
5722 Central Aye. HI 1-7011
"Cote* i* a registered trade-mark.1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
pureftegcutel
When June rolls around 
And youre homeward bound, 
For the best smoke youve found 
Have a CAMEL!
Dr .r Raymo Taksco* Co.. WtM. M..
It's a psychological fact: Pleasure helps 
your disposition. If you're a smoker, 
remember  more people get
prsI YsI PIoKYsI from Camels 
than from any other cigarette!
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

---------------------------------------------------

LADY GODIVA'S 
RIDING HABIT
Donald K er wick U. of Cincinnati
H
FLEA ON 
ANGRY CAT
Lydia Ratcliff V. of North Carolina
Tuesday, May 15, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage ^
A
II-... _  il ft Bint jh
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ...............................4....................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
Sideline News 
r And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
Pittsburgh's loss, Los Angeles gain ...
Michael J. Gittens, city traffic engineer for the past four years, 
recently resigned his post to accept a similar one in the city of Los 
Angeles. His position in Los Angeles will be that of senior traffic
engineer in the city traffic de-*-------------------------------------------
partment. As a senior engineer 
Mr. Gittens will be in charge of 
planning and operations and will 
work under the traffic manager 
^nd his assistant.
The Los Angeles position offers 
Mr. Gittens a substantial increase 
in salary of approximately $1,137 
to start. Three year salary raises 
will give him an approximate in
crease of $2,037 per annum.
Mr. Gittens received his Bach
elor of Science degree from Car
negie Institute of Technology in 
] 950 and was president of eve
ning' school Student Council in 
#;49-1950.
Rumors Are Flying . . .
A number of male evening stu
dents who are anxious to become 
affiliated with one of the three 
Evening School fraternities on 
campus have become quite irked 
at the somewhat dormant condi
tions existing as far as fraternal 
life is concerned.
The chief complaint of these 
jitudents, other than the charge of 
^activity or laxity of the frater
nities on campus, is that of seem
ing indifference as far as recruit
ing new members are concerned.
As a result of these conditions 
the creation of a new fraternity is
Phi Gamma Pi, 
Newman Banquets 
Scheduled Soon
Just a reminder to all who have 
not as yet sent in their, reserva
tions for the Phi Gamma Pi so
rority banquet to be held June 2 
at the Gateway Plaza. Miss Mar
ilyn Phipps is in charge of the 
event.
Reservations are also being ac
cepted by Miss Dolores Neff for 
the Newman Club Banquet to be 
held May 20 at Carnegie Union.
Let us all cooperate and get our 
reservations in since these are fin
al affairs of each group and next 
year may find some of our mem
bers not with us due to a change 
in schooling, jobs or even marital 
status.
rumored to be in the making al
though nothing concrete has dedevoped to date.
Lights, Cameras, Action! . . 
On Friday, May 18 The Ame
thysts Club jof Mt. Mercy College 
will present a play entitled, The 
Thespian Affair. The play is com
posed of scenes from such re
nowned stage vehicles as, My 
Sister Eileen, The Women, 
Anastasia, among others. A pre
view of this stage production was 
very entertaining and will be well 
worth the attendance of those of 
you seeking an enjoyable and eco
nomic evening.
Curtain call is 8:30 p.m. and tick
ets may be procured at the door. 
Oops! . : .
The item appearing in last 
weeks edition of The Plaid in re
gard to the honored guests who 
are to appear at the Newman Club 
banquet on May 20. Apologies are 
in order for the omission of the 
name of Father Regis Berkmyre, 
chaplain of Techs Newman Club,
Surprise Shower 
For Newlyweds
A good surprise is always wel
come but the suprise shower held 
on Sunday evening, May 6, made 
everyone happy. The guests of 
honor were Ewald Gondolf and his 
bride of two weeks, Ilsa, who just 
arrived from Germany. The party 
was held by the Newman Club 
members in the Carnegie Union 
and proved that people can keep 
a secret. since it was a complete 
surprise to the couple. They were 
the recipients of many lovely gifts 
and after cutting a large cake with 
a knife that was decorated in tra
ditional white flowers and ribbons, 
refreshments were served.
At the close of the affair, Joe 
Moigan and his fiancee, Jo Crisanti, invited all to their wedding 
June 30 at St. Pauls Cathedral 
and the reception at Webster Hall.
Congratulations and best wishes 
to Ilsa and Ewald and Jo and Joe.
who shivered due to the dunkings 
they received in their Dunk a 
Beta booth. Just goes to show 
these fellows give their all for 
dear old Beta Theta Pi.
Saw a lot of evening student 
members who took time out from 
their busy schedules to make a 
special evening of joining the day 
students in this affair. If there was 
such cooperation in all activities 
by both day and evening students, 
every affair would be a success, 
so let us all cooperate whether it 
be a carnival, square dance, or 
Monte Carlo.
Evening Students 
Enjoy Carnival
Anyone who attended the 
Spring Carnival on Tech campus, 
saw the results of cooperation, and 
hard work. The booths were quite 
interesting and even the common 
chuck-aluck games took on a 
new atmosphere. Everyone felt 
sorry for the Beta Theta Pi fellows
Mother-Daughter 
Tea Held May 6 
By Phi Gamma Pi
Phi Gamma Pi sorority held a 
mother-daughter tea on Sunday 
afternoon, May 6.
Mr. Fred Pope entertained with 
colorful slides and an interesting 
talk on Hawaii. A three-genera
tion mother-daughter group was 
Mrs. Julia Vickovic, Mrs. Emily 
Muhic and Miss Smily - Ann 
Muhic. Other mothers in attend
ance were Mrs. Chilleo, Dunn, 
Peterson, Phipps, Ross and Wolf.
Miss Ellen Gontner showed col
ored slides of previous teas and 
banquets. The decorations were in 
keeping with Mothers Day and 
were artistically arranged by Miss 
Ginni Ross and her mother.
WHATS THIS?
For solution see 
paragraph below.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
360 Forbes St - MA 1-0923
LIICKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
ndr T. Co. EPshlbenp iytPobdcf vtdhoSu ydSlWdbelPtP sW boudPteetf
Evening Council 
Begins Planning 
Wor Fall Semester
On Sunday,. May 6, Student 
Council held a meeting at the 
Carnegie Union. Final plans were 
made for the square dance sched
uled for May 12 at 8:00 p.m. Don 
Geyers orchestra will provide the 
entertainment.
Floyd Byers tabulated the 
points and plans to have them 
ready for publication soon. HarJy Thorn, handbook editor, pre
sented a new format for possible 
use for the handbook. He will ob
tain further information regard
ing costs and possibilities of pro
viding a new type of handbook 
containing pertinent information 
regarding evening school activi
ties.
The date of June 10 was chosen 
for the Workers Picnic. Floyd 
Byers will try to obtain the use of 
Mineral Beach picnic grounds for 
that date. Council plans an early 
meeting in the fall to plan for reg
istration and fall social events. A 
dancing party was considered for 
inclusion in the social calendar 
for next year.
Tennis Club
The tennis club will meet 
(j^ for play at 2 p.m. on Sunday, 
May 27 in front of AH, if 
weather permits. Day as well 
as evening students are wel
come.
END VIEW OF 
DICTIONARY
Donald Blevins V.P.I.
DOUGHNUT 
FOR DIETERS
Harry Ireland V. of Oklahoma
r TOflsr^"
io toste
CHRISTMAS STOCKING 
FOR MERMAID
William Gould U. of Colorado
FOLKS WHO KNOW THE SCORE always smoke 
Luckies. Witness the Droodle above: Smoke 
blown by Lucky-smoking spectators at tennis 
match. Theyre netting themselves plenty of en
joyment, because Luckies taste better. You see, 
Lucky Strike means fine tobaccolight, mild, 
good-tasting tobacco thats TOASTED to taste 
even better. Okay, the balls in your court. Serve 
yourself a Luckyyoull say its the best-tasting 
cigarette you ever smoked?
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
Students!
EARN $25!
Cut yourself in on the Lucky Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 for all we useand for a whole raft we dont use! Send your Droodles with descriptive titles. Include your name, address, college and class and the name and address of the dealer in your college town from whom you buy cigarettes most often. Address: Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 15, 195?)
Alumni Survey 
Reveals Great 
Variety In Jobs
The national shortage of engi
neers is commonly attributed to 
the disinterest of high school stu
dents who shun the rigors of 
higher technical education. Now 
another cause for the shortage has 
been found at the other end of 
the ladder.
A recent survey by Carnegie 
Tech revealed that a majority of 
science and engineer alumni are 
functioning in the higher echelons 
of administration and manage
ment.
Questionnaires were sent to 
some 18,000 alumni now residing 
in all the United States and many 
foreign countries. A record 95 per 
cent were returned.
Engineers Few
Roughly two thirds, or 11,500, 
of the alumni hold bachelor, mas
ter or doctoral degrees in engi
neering or science, but only 2.391, 
one-fourth of those holding such 
degrees, listed their occupation as 
engineer.
The alumni, which also include 
graduates of the College of Fine 
Arts, the Printing Management 
School, and Magaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, reported 1,240 
distinct occupations.
There were 329 corporation or 
company presidents, 357 vicepresidents and 349 general man
agers. Engineers have chosen ca
reers in the fields of editing, sales, 
education, medicine, law, and pol
itics. Twenty graduates had be
come clergymen, three more are 
missionaries. There are one each, 
U.N. delegate, ambassador, and 
rear admiral. Charles E. Wilson, 
U.S. secretary of defense listed 
his occupation simply as secre
tary.
Most Grads Housewives
The survey uncovered 123 
alumni who were unemployed, 
but closer scrutiny revealed most 
of these were between jobs or 
were free lance writers, actors 
and artists.
Carnegie alumni work for 3,644 
employers. Only two of these, 
U. S. Steel and Westinghouse 
Electric, engage more than 500, 
and only eight employ more than 
100 Carnegie alumni.
The 2,391 graduates who listed 
their profession as engineer form
ed the second largest group. First 
came the 3,245 alumnae who gave 
their occupation as housewife.
Tech Porsche 
In Road Race
At Cumberland, Maryland, on 
Saturday and Sunday, May 18 and 
19, the Steel Cities Region of the 
Sports Car Club of America will 
supervise the Fifth Annual Sports 
Car Race Classic. This race is the 
largest of its kind in the East, at
tracting over four hundred en
tries. It is sponsored by the Cum
berland Lions Club, all of the pro
ceeds going to charity.
The event will be of special in
terest to Carnegie Tech, for this 
year, as in the past, a number of 
Tech students will assist in the 
supervision of the technical phases 
of the race. The duties consist of 
helping with both the safety and 
technical inspections of the en
tered vehicles, which range from 
American production models to 
custom foreign jobs.
Royal Coach
Mr. Stanley R. March of the 
public relations department is 
planning to enter his blue Porsche. 
This little bomb has a rather 
unique background. After Mr. 
March received the car from the 
dealer, he learned that it had been 
especially tailored for Prince 
Rainier of Monaco. It seems that 
the Prince cancelled the order at 
the last minute when he visited 
this country to pick up his Cin
derella brideGrace Kelly.
The little car with the royal 
background will be seen at the 
Cumberland races with Mr. March 
in the pilots seat. Mr. March is 
also the assistant race chairman 
for the affair.
Fulbright Aivard 
To Stuart Knoop
Stuart Knoop, senior architec
tural student at Carnegie Tech, 
has won a Fulbright scholarship to 
study in the United Kingdom.
A native of Summit, New Jer
sey, Knoop is the third Carnegie 
student to receive a Fulbright this 
year. He Will study at the Archi
tectural Association in London, 
England for the 1956-57 academic 
year.
Musical Revue 
And Comedy Showm/Now At Playhouse
The Pittsburgh Playhouse is 
swinging back into its two theater 
operation with the comedy 
Champagne Complect now play
ing in the Hamlet Street Theater, 
and the smash hit musical revue 
Whats The Rush? happily de
lighting capacity crowds on the 
Craft Avenue side of the Com
munity Theater.
Champagne Complex, which 
opened a three week run on May
5, is a bubbling springtime com
edy about an attractive young girl 
who displays an embarrassing be
havior problem after the smallest 
sip of the vintage wine.
Patricia Murphy, Orrin Redfield, and Thomas Gaydos are fea
tured in Champagne Complex 
which was directed by Charles 
Matthews and produced by Fred
erick Bui'leigh.
The musical revue, Whats The 
Rush? is setting a record as one 
of the best audience pleasers that 
the Playhouse has ever produced. 
Written by the Broadway team of 
Charles Strouse, Lee Adams, and 
Mike Stewart, Whats The 
Rush? is a fresh new show filled 
with bright songs, exciting dances, 
and hilarious comedy sketches.
Dr. Parshall
[Continued from page 2] 
sociation of University Protessors, 
and from 1947 to 1949, he was 
president of the Tech Faculty 
Federal Credit Union.
Dr. Parshall has enjoyed his 
present duties, which he describes 
as too elusive and variable to 
enumerate, but he,is looking for
ward to his new position. As Di
rector of Student Personnel and 
Welfare, he will have more op
portunity to work directly with 
the students than before. He will 
continue to hold his academic ap
pointment in the English depart
ment but will devote full time to 
his new job.
Mrs. Hackett
[Continued from page 1J 
ing as advisor to the womens ac
tivities honoraries, Womens Dorm 
council, and Panhel, Mis. Hackett 
has won the particular respect of 
the women on campus, as well as 
that of the entire student body 
and faculty.
A. graduate of Margaret Morri
son, Mrs. Hackett came to Tech 
in May 1953 as secretary to Mrs. 
Dickenson, then acting dean of 
women, and remained as secre
tary to the new dean, Mrs. Hutch
ins, the following semester. Before 
her appointment as acting dean 
of women in July, 1954, Mrs. 
Hackett was secretary to Dr. 
Miner in the department of stu
dent personnel and welfare.
Dorm Council
[Continued from page I]
to the president of Dorm Council.
As with the president of CFP 
the Dorm Council president will 
be a member of the Student 
Council executive council and 
will thus pass on any businesli) 
of school wide importance.
Own Court 
Unlike the Student Council, 
however, Mens Dorm Council 
will be its own judicial body. Any 
infractions of the rules of the 
Mens Dormitories (as written by 
Council and approved by the ad
ministration) will be tried before 
a judicial body taken from the 
Council with the counsellors of 
the involved dormitory present as^ 
non-voting members. If found 
guilty, punishment ranging from 
a fine to expulsion from the dorms 
may be inflicted.
It is the hope of the present 
Council that this revision will 
make not only more efficient re
presentation for the dorms, but 
will give the dorm residents a 
stronger voice in their own gov
ernment, as well as that of the 
campus. {> )
Graduating Electronics & Mechanical Engineers...
How long will you be "Junior in your job?
READ THIS CHECK LIST BEFORE MAKING A FINAL DECISION.
IT MAY INCLUDE FACTORS YOU HAVE NOT CONSIDERED.
WILL MY STARTING SALARY BE
Equal to industry standards?
Better than industry standards?
Gilfillan starting salaries are higher than 
overall industry standards (averaging $100 
a month higher even in this competitive 
area). This is because, at Gilfillan, the indidivuals capacity develops more rapidly than 
under rigid corporation training systems. 
He is literally worth more from the start.
HOW RAPIDLY WILL I ADVANCE 7
I I At predetermined intervals, according 
,M1 to a rigid seniority system?
| | As rapidly as my abilities warrant?
At Gilfillan, there is no hierarchy or sen
iority system. Individuals advance as rapidly 
as abilities develop. Salaries are reviewed 
at least twice a year.
WHAT WILL MY STANDING BE?
?
 Will I have to work at a board, punch 
a time clock, or be docked for time off? 
Will I have professional standing?
At Gilfillan, you do not punch a time clock. 
You work at a desk, in a professional atmos
phere, and are subject to your own con
science when you need personal time off.
CAN I CARRY THROUGH
ON MY OWN IDEAS?
?
Up to a point, then senior engineer* 
take over?
J AH the way through to production?
At Gilfillan, a man with a sound idea Is 
given his head and complete team 
project cooperation. An assigned technician 
reports directly to the engineer, for con
struction and wiring of circuits. The engi
neer carries full design responsibility
GILFILLAN GCA QUADRADAR provide 
Search, Precision Final Approach, Haight Finding and Airport Taxi Control in a single, air-transportable equipment. Designed for 
and highly efficient In handling military and 
olvll Jet aircraft, Quadradar has received 
Immediate and universal acceptance.
through production. Creative ability is rec
ognized in overall dvancement and specific 
rewards such as large bonuses for patents.
WILL MY FIRM BE THE RIGHT SIZE?
Is it so large I could be lost in the shuffle? 
I I Is it so small that the work may not 
'' be pure engineering?
Is the firm growing, so I can grow with it?
Gilfillan is neither a giant nor a small, lim
ited company. Seven Gilfillan plants are 
located in Southern California, with Engi
neering Headquarters at Los Angeles. Gil
fillan is large enough to handle all phases 
of research, design and development, yet 
not so large a man gets lost. The individuals 
growth is assured by the continuing Gilfillan 
expansion program.
WHAT WILLBE M YFIELD" OF WORK?
?
 Will I be confined to one field or have 
opportunities in a diversity of fields?
I I Will these include tomorrows" new'* est areas of electronics development?
Gilfillan is best known as the pioneer of 
GCA radar and all its major improvements, 
including the Gilfillan GCA Quadradar-yet 
GCA is only one facet of Gilfillan activities. 
The firm has been engaged as a prime sup
plier of research, development and produc
tion of Military Electronics Systems since 
1942, including Missile Guidance systems, 
airborne and ground; Electronic Counter
measures; Navigational Radar (GCA and 
AGCA); and Electronic Radar Trainers. Gil
fillan is now concerned with many of today's 
newest, classified areas of electronics ex
ploration and development.
CAN 1 IMPROVE MY PROFESSIONAL 
KNOWLEDGE AND STATUS?
?
?
Will tuition be paid by my firm? 
Will I be given aid in publishing 
technical articles?
?
 Will thp experience of the entire 
engineering group be available to me?
Gilfillan pays tuition at universities or tech
nical institutes. All poesibl* aid is given in 
individual publishing of technical articles. 
Continuing symposiums make the total 
knowledge of the Gilfillan engineering staff 
available to the individual.
WHAT ABOUT THE STABILITY OF MY 
JOB??
 Does K depend on temporary big 
contracts?
?
 Is the firm  "war baby" type that 
may or may not be permanent?
Gilfillan has appointed new engineers every 
year since the firm was established In 1912. 
Current openings are in no sens* emer
gency or temporary big contract job, but 
prt of continuing Gilfillan *xpanslon.
THE ARMYS CORPORAL. Prime Contract 
for Basic Research and Development - Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory of California Insittute of Technology. Prime Contracts for 
Development (improvement and simplifica
tion of ground and airborne electronics sys
tems; and Production (ground guidance sys
tems and airborne electronics) - Gilfillan. 
Gilfillan also holds Prime Contracts, many 
developmental, with the Air Force, Army 
Ordnance, Army Signal Corps, United States, 
Navy, Royal Canadian Air Force, Royal 
Australian Air Force,' South African Air 
Force and the French Government.
WHAT ABOUT MY JOB LOCATION t
?
?
Is it in an area with few other 
electronics firms, so I might find 
myself in a backwater?
Is it in the center of the industry, so 
there are many opportunities if I want 
to make a change?
Gilfillan Engineering Headquarters is in 
Los Angeles, now the center of the Elec
tronics Industry, with more than 165 firms 
in operation..Among these, Gilfillan reputa
tion is tops, broadening opportunity if the 
Gilfillan engineer should decide to go else
where. However, it is fair to say that, once 
acquainted with the firms operation, Gil
fillan engineers plan to stay permanently, 
because of superior opportunities for a 
comprehensive, remunerative, and secure 
lifetime career.
CAN I GET MORE GILFILLAN FACTSf
By correspondence? 
j Personally?
Both. Address specific inquiries to R. E. 
Bell, Gilfillan Bros., 1815 Venice Blvd.. Los 
Angeles, Calif. An interview will be arranged. 
If you are in the Los Angeles area, telephone 
Mr. Bell at DU 1 3441.
un
Los Angeles
PRIME CONTRACTORS FOR COMPLETE SYSTEMS
Electronic Countrmeasu>es 
Air Navigation Aids - Quidad Mi*it*e 
Airborne Reder - Rader Treiners
Ql
V)
