-CARNEGIETART AN
TARNHeyH yNthyhrhH ,o hHTuN,w,ei
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 19 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1963
Broes Surveys 
Most Popular 
tCollege Book
The novel which many sur
veys have revealed to be the 
most popular in collegiate cir
cles today, Lord of the Flies, is 
to receive a large amount of at
tention from Mr. Arthur T. Broes 
when he discusses William Gold
ing in the Fine Arts Theatre at 
11:30 on Tuesday, March 19.
^ Mr. Broes lecture will bring to 
a close the 1963 lecture series of 
the Department of English, a 
series which, devoted to the 
theme Literary Pioneers, has 
included talks *on T. S. Eliot, Da
vid Michael Jones, and Jack 
Kerouac.
William Goldings Lord of the 
Files was first published almost 
ten years ago, and although it 
evoked high critical acclaim 
Pfrom the start, its popularity 
among college students is only 
recent. A novel with an excit
ing narrative thread, it is be
lieved to owe that popularity not 
so much to the narrative thread 
as to the symbolic overtones it 
possesses and the questions it 
raises in readers minds.
Mr. Broes will take up other 
of Goldings novels, such as The 
^Inheritors, which was published 
fi'in this country only last sum
mer, and Free Fall, ?n an at
tempt to make clear the achieve
ment and the position of Gold
ing in contemporary fiction.
The speaker, and instructor in 
the Department of English, holds 
a bachelors degree granted by 
Manhattan College and a masters 
degree earned at Columbia Uni
versity .
*Tech Receives 
Science Grants
Tech has received seven grants 
totaling $105,500 from the Na
tional Science Foundation.
Three of the grants were 
awarded for the undergraduate 
science programs being conducted 0>in the departments of physics, 
civil engineering, and metallurgic
al engineering. Another grant of 
$22,000 was made to the depart
ment of mechanical engineering 
for the purchase of scientific 
equipment for undergraduate in
struction.
The departments of electrical 
and mechanical engineering re
ceived grants for the renovation of 
research facilities in the departmetns. The two awards totaled 
over $40,000.
Emerson M. Pugh, professor and 
associate head of the department 
of physics, will conduct research 
on Magnet Power Supply, with 
a grant of almost $20,000.
SELECTIVE SERVICE TEST
The Selective Service Sys
tem will administer the Col
lege Qualification Test on 
April 18, 1963. Students who 
intend to take this test should 
apply at once to the nearest 
local board for an application 
and bulletins of information. 
Applications must be post
marked no later than March 
28, 1963.
Greek Weekend Stars 
Competition, Concert
A sing competition Friday night and a concert and dance 
on Saturday will be the major ingredients of this years 
Greek Sing Weekend. Tech fraternities and sororities will 
perform on the stage of the Carnegie Music Hall this Friday 
from 8:00-11:00 in an attempt to capture one of the coveted 
Sing trophies. Directed by a member of their organization, 
each group will perform two songs of their own choice. Local 
musicians will rate these performances in categories ranging 
from difficulty of selection to musical interpretation. Two 
campus music honoraries, Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia and Sigma
---------------------------------------------------------?Alpha Iota, will perform together,
but will not be included in the
' Photo by Aron Collons
The security officers overlook no opportunity to protect 
the welfare of the Tech students.
Security Force Gives 
TechExtendedServices
By MARION MULLIGAN
A man in a gray uniform directs a visitor on campus to 
the Fine Arts Theatre. Another finds some books left in the 
hall of AH and takes them to the lost and found department. 
This is the Tech Security Force at work.
Mr. W. Dwane Young, head of the force, says, Were a 
specialized police force, here to provide a service to the Tech 
community. Helpfulness to the students, faculty, and staff is
our first consideration. He and*--------------------------------------------------------
twenty-one officers are responsi
ble for a round the clock patrol 
on campus seven days a week.
The forces headquarters, AH 
243, resembles a regular police 
office. Convicts pictures are posted 
on the walls, and a radio trans
mitter relays messages to and 
from the office. Mr. Young ex
plains that he uses a radio paging 
service to contact officers who 
carry pocket radios while they 
are on detail across the campus.
Since October 1961, the force 
has been continually developing 
to meet the growing needs of the 
university. We cant lag behind 
the expansion of Tech, Mr. 
Young explains. A magnificent 
change in personnel, following 
this pattern, has been a switch 
from private agency officers to 
security force workers. Only one 
officer from the agency, the po
liceman at Morewood Gardens, 
still works for the force.
Campus policing is a relatively 
new field, says Mr. Young. Its 
developing into a job for a welltrained corps that protects the 
campus community from outsid
ers, since enforcement problems 
with students are practically nil. 
The days of the old campus cop 
are coming to an end.
Besides its obvious services, the 
force performs several other bene
fits for students. Anyone needing 
finger print impressions for pass
ports may have them taken at the 
office. Our telephone number is 
Ma 1-2603, extension 565 or 209, 
Mr. Young says. We hope that 
students will become familiar with 
this number and use it whenever 
we can be of aid to them.
Debating Team 
Scores High 
For Tartans
The tempo has been picking up 
for Techs debating union. Two 
weeks ago, a trip was made to 
the 13th annual International 
Tournament at Columbia in New 
York. Sixty-two schools were in
volved and the Tartan squad 
placed seventh at the tournamentt end. Techs final record 
was five wins and one loss. The 
final win was one over St. Peters 
of New York, national champions 
last year. The debating union 
was represented by Mike Gross 
and Tom Miller.
Last weekend, Tech hosted the 
Thirteenth Invitational Tourna
ment under the direction of Bob 
Hawkins and Mr. Stephen Lau
rence. Eleven schools, including 
Carnegie Tech, were present.
The University of Pittsburgh 
swept the tournament, taking 
both speaker awards and the first 
place trophy. St. Vincents was 
second with Duquesne a very 
close third. Since the Tartans 
were the home school, they were 
ineligible for any awards. Repre
senting Tech were Norm McEachron and Jeffff Axelrad on 
the negative and Andy Logan 
and Tom Miller on the affirmtive.
The team will resume competi
tion when they attend the state 
Tournament in Philadelphia.
Regiment 
Presents Queen 
At Mil. Ball
On Tuesday, March 19. at 12:30 
the eleven candidates for Military 
Ball Queen and Honorary Colonel 
of the ROTC Regiment will be 
presented to the entire student 
body in the Skibo Ballroom by the 
members of Scabbard and Blade. 
The girls have been chosen to re
present their respective sororities 
and towers in Morewood Gardens.
The following dorm candidates 
who will be presented are: Susan 
Marie Berky, a freshman in Psy
chology from New Rochelle, New 
York; Janet Harton, a junior in 
Business Studies from Pittsburgh, 
Penna., representing B Tower; 
Arlene Kadish, a freshman in 
Drama from New York City, New 
York, representing A Tower, and 
Carole Smith, a sophomore major
ing in Painting and Design from 
Cleveland, Ohio, representing C 
Tower.
The sorority candidates are: 
Sandra Cook, a freshman Drama 
major from Roanoke, Virginia, re
presenting Chi Omega; Ollie Don
aldson, a junior majoring in 
French and German, from Glenshaw, Penna., representing Delta 
Gamma; Linda Jaffurs, a junior 
in Home Economics from Pitts
burgh, Penna., representing Delta 
Delta Delta; Jeanie Kean, a soph
omore language major from Mex
ico City, Mexico, representing Al
pha Epsilon Phi; Susan Koch, a 
freshman majoring in Psychology 
from Leonia, New Jersey, repre
senting Sigma Kappa; Eileen 
Mauclair, a sophomore English 
major from Pittsburgh, Penna., 
representing Kappa Kappa Gam
ma, and Eileen Carey Sharbaugh, 
a sophomore in English represent
ing Kappa Alpha Theta.
Chem Society 
Holds Lectures
Joseph Jordan, professor in the 
department of chemistry at Penn
sylvania State University, will 
deliver the first in a series of 
lectures o n Electrochemistry 
being sponsored by the Analytical 
Chemistry Group of the Ameri
can Chemical Society. His topic 
for the lecture, which will be held 
on Wednesday, March 13, will be 
Kinetics and Mechanics of Elec
trode Reactions.
Other lectures in the series will 
be held on March 20 and 27, and 
on April 10. The program will 
conclude with a round table dis
cussion on April 17. All lectures 
will be hed at 8:30 p.m. in the 
auditorium of Scaife Hal.
competition for the trophies.
Saturday afternoon the 
Greeks and their dates will sit 
back and relax in the Skibo ball
room for a two hour informal 
concert. Sharing the billing are 
The Harold Betters Quartet, a 
well-known local jazz group, and 
Liz Seneff and The Midnight 
Riders, a rising young folk-singing 
group. Following this, CFP is 
sponsoring a system-wide mixer 
to be held in three fraternity 
houses on campus. Entertaining 
will be three of the swingingest 
rock n roll groups in Pittsburgh.
Greek Swing will feature the 
dance music of Gree Manning in 
the Skibo Ballroom beginning at 
8:30. The climax of the weekend 
will be the announcement of the 
top three fraternities and the top 
three sororities as judged at the 
Friday night Sing competition.
The trophies will be presented 
by the Greek Sing Co-Chairmen: 
Stu Silverstone, Administrative 
Vice President of CFP and Mary 
Ann Gruen of Panhellenic Coun
cil.
The top winners in each divis
ion will perform one of their 
songs on stage after which they 
will return to their houses for a 
victory celebration.
The schedule for Greek Sing is 
as follows:
Pi Kappa Alpha. The Slope of 
(continued on page 5)
Candidates 
Graduation 
Requires Fee
All Bachelors, Masters, and 
Doctors Degree candidates are 
reminded that the graduation fee 
of $10.00 is charged to all can
didates for graduation. This fee 
may be paid by mail or in per
son at the Registrars Office. 
Checks should be made payable 
to the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. Candidates should come 
to the Office of the Registrar for 
the necessary cards to take to the 
Cashiers Office to pay this fee in 
person.
All candidates for the Doctors 
Degree are required to deposit 
the amount of $25.00, which is 
refunded when the candidate has 
fulfilled his departments require
ment in respect to the publica
tion of his doctoral thesis. The 
deposit should be paid to Mr. 
Claney in the Office of the Con
troller.
Both the graduation fee and 
the deposit must be paid by 
April 1, 1963.

---------------------------------------------------

Are you irritated with checking account charges!
During dining hours red and 
white checkered tablecloths with 
iron rod chimney candles will re
place the bare table tops.
This policy is now on the ex
perimental basis. How long it is 
going to last will be determined 
by student response.
27 Executives 
Attend GSIA 
For W orkshop
Twenty-seven corporate execu
tives are attending Carnegie 
Tech's nine week Program for 
Executives, which began March 4 
and continued until May 3. This 
is the tenth | mual PFE. There 
are representatives from compan
ies in nine states, the District of 
Columbia, South America, Holland 
and India taking part. More than 
250 executives have participated 
in the program since its founda
tion in 1954.
The program, sponsored by the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration, is designed for ma
ture executives who have dem
onstrated strong potential for gen
eral management responsibilities. 
Its objectives are to help such 
rnen develop an analytical, companywide approach to manage
ment problems, to deepen their 
understanding of management reI 
sponsibilities; and to sharpen their ! 
awareness of the important econ
omic and political forces which 
provde the envronment for man
agement decisions.
To implement these objectives, 
six major courses are being ofj 
fered in an integrated program. | 
The six courses being offered in 
this years program are Business | 
Policy, Human Relations and Ad
ministration, Labor and Manage
ment Problems, Quantitative Tools 
for Managerial Decision-Making 
and Control, Business in the 
changing environment, and Ideas, 
Change, and the Corporation.
LEWIS j
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO . ELECTRIC CO 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Page 2  C ARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 13. 1963
the bulletins in Dean Swanks ] 
office.
Call Day Forms
Any organization \yhich is in
terested in making a call or pre
senting an award at Call Day, 
Spring Carnival, May 3, and 
which has not yet been contracted 
by the Call Day chairman may 
secure a form for this purpose at 
Dean Struck's Office. All forms 
must be completed and submitted 
immediately.
Study Group
The Informal Study Group will |
meet this Thursday, March 14, 
11:30 a.m. in the Blue Room of 
Morewood Gardens for lunch and 
discussion with Dr. S. J. Mandel, 
baum of the History Department 
i who will speak on Mass Tran| sit: Public or Private? An in, 
vitation is extended to both stu
dents and faculty to attend.Each Friday and Saturday 
evenings from 5 to 8 Skibo snack
bar will serve steak dinners.
The meal consists of steak, cole 
slaw, french fried potatoes, rolls j 
and butter. All this for the low j 
price of $1.35.
Phi Kappa Phi
Phi Kappa Phi certificates and 
keys can now be picked up in Dr. 
Stricks office.
Summer Jobs
There are available in the office
of the Foreign Student Advisor, 
Administration Hall, Room 150. 
bulletins describing summer job 
opportunities in Europe made 
available to the American Student 
Information Service. Students 
who are interested may consult
Hey there, you with the raft of ideas!
ME, EE, AE ENGINEERS
Get that raft afloat fast, and head for the 
land where ideas multiply. But before you 
set your course, youll want to compare the 
opportunities . . . the challenge . . . offered 
by potential employers with what you can 
bring to your employer.
Whats up at Hamilton Standard? In brief, 
a diversification program that includes de
sign and development of propulsion controls, 
life support systems, other environmental 
control systems, electron beam machines, 
automatic stabilization systems, propellers, 
and ground support equipment.
Hamilton Standard
Were looking for men with ideas... ideas 
ready to be launched. If youre an engineering 
student looking for the best means to an end, 
pick up a Hamilton Standard brochure at 
your placement office. It may hold the first 
clue to how you can get started toward the 
best company for you.
A Hamilton Standard college personnel 
representative will be on campus soon. He*ll 
be glad to answer your questions, and to take 
your application for a position if you decide 
you like what youve learned about us.
THE DATE: March 25,1963
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION
An Equal Opportunity Employer
U> AIRCF
n
'............
Snackbar Adds 
Steak Dinners 
On Weekends
BULLETIN
BOARD jjjur
At Unton National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. There's no service charge No maintenance 
charge No charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
bills the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MEMSER: FEOERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL DE*OSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March IS, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Pa*e 3
BEST AMERICAN 
FILM OF 1962!
-Time Magazine
Prof. Lopatnikoff To Join Group
Nikolai Lopatnikoff, professor 
of music in the College of Fine 
Arts, has been elected to the 
countrys highest honor society 
of the arts.
Lopatnikoff, well-known com
poser, was one of twelve eminent 
artists joining The National In
stitute of Arts and Letters, ac
cording to an announcement 
made by the Institute. He is the 
only musician in the recentlyelected group, and is one of 238 
members of the Institute, which 
is limited by charter to 250 dis
tinguished artists.
All of the newly-elected mem
bers will be formally inducted 
into the honor society next May 
at the Joint Annual Ceremonial 
of the National Institute and the
AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE STORY 1
SQ HILL
SECOND GREAT WEEK
Daily MatineesNew Policy
SQ. HILL  HA. 1-4909For This Engagement
{Author of I Was a Teen-age Dwarf, 1 
Loves of Dobie Gillis," etc.)
'COCA-COLA'10 "COKE" ARE RQI$TEREO TRADE-MARKS WHICH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PRODUCT Of THE COCA-COLA COMPAM*
MARKING ON THE CURVEAND WHAT 
TO DO ABOUT IT
Twonkey Crimscott was a professor, Choate Sigafoos was a 
sophomore. Twonkey Crimscott was keen, cold, brilliant. 
Choate Sigafoos was loose, vague, adenoidal. Twonkey Crim
scott believed in diligence, discipline, and marking on the curve, 
Choate Sigafoos believed in elves, Julie London, and thirteen 
hours of sleep each night.
Yet there came a time when. Twonkey Crimscottmentor, 
sage, and savantwas thoroughly outthought, outfoxed, outmaneuvered, outployed, and outwitted by Choate Sigafoos, 
sophomore.
exam... pencil... paper 
proctor.. .time... begin 
think... blank.. .tick tick 
guess...tick tick...write 
tick tick...hurry...finish 
time... pause.. ./f^
It happened one day when Choate was at the library studying 
for one of Mr. Crimscotts exams in sociology. Mr. Crimscott' 
exams were murderplain, flat murder. They consisted of one 
hundred questions, each question having four possible answers 
A, B, C, and D. You had to check the correct answer, but the 
trouble was that the four choices were so subtly shaded, so 
intricately worded, that students more clever by far than Choate 
Sigafoos were often set to gibbering.
So on this day Choate sat in the library poring over his 
sociology text, his tiny brow furrowed with concentration, while 
all around him sat the other members of the sociology class, 
every one studying like crazy, every one scared and pasty. 
Choate loolfhl sadly at their stricken faces. What a waste!! 
he thought. All this youth, this verve, this bounce, chained to 
musty books in a musty library! We should be out singing and 
dancing and cutting didoes on the greensward! Instead we 
are here.
Then, suddenly, an absolute gasser of an idea hit Choate, 
listen! lie shouted to his classmates. Tomorrow when we 
take the exam, Jets allevery one of uscheck Choice A on 
every questionevery one of them.
Huh?" said his classmates.
Oh, I know that Choice A cant be the right answer to 
every question,* said Choate. But whats the difference? Mr. 
Crimscott marks on the curve. If we all check the same an
swers, then we all get the same score, and evervbodv in the class 
gets a C\
Hmm, said his classmates.
So why should we knock ourselves out studying? said 
Choate. Lets get out of here and have a ball!
So they all ran out and lit Marlboro Cigarettes and had a 
ball, as indeed, you will too when you light a Marlboro, for if 
there ever was a cigarette to lift the spirit and gladden the 
heart, to dispel the shades of night, to knot up the ravelled 
sleeve of care, to put spring in your gait and ro<es in your 
cheeks, it is filtered Marl borosfirm and pure and fragrant and 
filled with rich, natural, golden tobacco. And, whats more, this 
darlin smoke comes in soft packs that are actually soft and 
flip-top boxes that actually flip.
Well sir, the next morning the whole class did what Choate 
said, and, sure enough, they all got Cs, and they picked Choate 
up and carried him on their shoulders and sang For Hes a 
Jolly Good Fellow and plied him with sweetmeats and Marlboros and girls and put on buttons which said I 1>()TE OV 
CHOATE.
But they were celebrating too soon. Because the next time 
shrewd old Mr. Crimscott gave them a test, he did not give 
them one hundred multiple choice questions. He only gave 
them one questionto wit: write a 30,000 word essay on 
.Crime Does Not Pay.
You and your ideas, they said to Choate and tore off liia 
epaulets and broke his sword and drummed him out of the 
school. Today, a broken man. he earns a living as i omwhtffc 
in Toledo. . 
take a break...things go better with CokeTRAD-MA*K $
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaBottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company byl
-ARROWHow to be colorful-without overdoing it
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
S.ME,A.NNGIRA,:A FN,MOEAL .AV YTDAEOEAL* UC.MTDEAL P-G iC.LTC Y.OE,A
LEONARD S MEN S SHOPAt the top of the curce of smokii 
Marlboro Cigarettes, available at e all fifty States of the Union.
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
OPEN MONDAY, WEDNESDAY & FRIDAY TILL 9:00 P.M.
Honor Society Of The Arts ElectsWinner of 2 Academy Award Nominations!
BEST DIRECTOR" AND BEST SCREENPLAY"

---------------------------------------------------

F*ge T A CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 13, 193
mVEM,DE.N
Students Abuse School Privileges
Ask any student and he will be only too 
happy to tell you what is w^rong with the 
school he attends. Tech students are no dif
ferent. We have continually criticized and 
complained both orally and In writing'. The 
pages of this newspaper will attest to that. 
Yet, overall, the Tech student is probably no 
more critical of the institute he attends than 
is his counterpart in colleges across the 
country. The degree of criticism would be 
desirable if the Tech student were equally 
aware of the privileges afforded him, but un
fortunately this is not the case. Were each 
student to prepare lists of grievances and 
benefits, the list of grievances would in
variably be the longer of the two.
As an eductional institution Tech offers 
its student body considerably more than just 
the bare academic essentials for obtaining a 
degree. Anything above this academic na
ture might well fall under the classification 
of privileges.
Supposedly, it is part of human nature to 
take for granted those things wThich w7ork 
for ones benefit over a long period of time. 
This is certainly what has happened on our 
campus. In fact, some privileges have been 
so badly abused that they are in danger of 
being lost. Others may be lost because they 
are not used. A few examples will illustrate 
these points.
Tech is fortunate in having an open stack 
library system. It is far more convenient 
than waiting for a librarian to get each and 
every book you wish to use. Yet students 
abuse this privilege and borrow books ille
gally. The mens dormitories provide recrea
tional facilities including television and 
piano. This year a piano w^as literally taken 
apart in Hammerschlag Hall. Why should 
these facilities be replaced or continued?
Some striking examples of students not 
using privileges also exist. How often does 
one hear complaints about Student Congress 
and its ineffectiveness. Yet its ineffectiveness 
stems from lack of student support  the 
unwillingness of the student body to use Stu
dent Congress as a means to achieve its ends. 
The Tuesday Assembly Program has become 
almost farcical because of student inattend
ance. It is not that the programs are dis
liked; rather, no one takes the trouble even 
to inquire what the assembly is about. The 
discontinuance of this program may result. 
We shall be hearing more on this problem 
in the very near future.
Expressing ones grievances is all w'ell 
and good, but one should simultaneously be 
cognizant of the privileges wrhich are im
portant and valuable to student life. If the 
students themselves are not aware of these 
benefits, what reason is there to hope that 
they will be continued indefinitely.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Image Makers
Many students have criticized the administration (of 
Tech) for restricting student life in many different ways. 
It is felt that these criticisms are, in general, justified and 
should be noticed. However another aspect of the subject 
also needs light shed upon it: The many areas in which 
the administration has consistently followed a policy of 
restriction. For the most part this policy goes unnoticed and 
uncriticized. One example is the schools policy on permitt
ing girls in dormitory and fraternity areas  the school has 
forbidden girls to go into private rooms or above the first 
floor in these buildings. The rule is strictly enforced  as 
at least one fraternity discovered belatedly. The crucial 
question is why?
The answer seems to be that such activities would be 
inconsistent with the image desired for Tech. It is felt that 
the relaxation of regulation would lead to bad behavior 
on the part of students. The question that remains to be 
answered is Is such behavior actually bad? The admin
istration obviously feels that students are incapable of 
thinking for themselves, and that it is its duty to tell stu
dents what is morally right. All this is of course consis
tent with being given a liberal education. One school official 
has told me that if girls were freely allowed in the dorms, 
applications for admission to Margaret Morrison would fall 
off. This argument is valid; Tech would not like to have the 
ima<?e of such notorious schools as Penn, Harvard, and 
M.I.T.
It should be noticed that Tech has consistently given 
students freedom in many areas though, and for this it 
should be applauded. In particular the school allows stu
dents to cut classes and account for their own time. Most 
persons here may take this for granted (it seems that way 
anyway), but many schools discipline or fail students who 
do not feel it is a necessity to go to classes. Tech bases its 
policy on results, not restrictions.
Perhaps a more graphic example is the freedom with 
which liquor is permitted on campus. To the best of my 
knowledge there are no restrictions on men (although girls 
are restricted) having, drinking, or making any alcoholic 
beverage on campus. Compare this with the school down 
the street.
Carnegie Tech contains a mixed atmosphere  restric
tions and freedoms are enacted by the same authorities. 
Our school is certainly more liberal than most universities, 
but this is no reason why some of the present restrictions 
can not be modified. Much still needs to be done before 
Tech can consider itself rid of the menace of unreasonable
Vetter Speaks 
To Sigma Nu 
On March 1
The Philosophy of Architec
ture was Prof. Hans A. Vetters 
topic when he spoke to the Sigma 
Nu's on March 1. Prof. Vetter 
has been a member of the arch
itecture faculty at Tech since 
1947. He came to Tech with a 
background of more than twenty 
years in European studies and 
practice.
The distinguished architect be
gan with a discussion of mans 
culture, dividing it into two 
areas: material (food, shelter,
property) and ideal (rites, hab
its, and beliefs.) Professor Vet
ter pointed out the recent rapid 
advence in material knowledge 
and showed a parallel progres
sive change in ideals. With our 
industrial economys rising stand
ard of living, we are able to ac
cumulate more goods and ser
vices, and the concept of the loan 
has been brought to widespread 
use. A similar change in ideals 
arises over the use and misuse 
of elevators, and also new floor 
materials. Another kind of di
lemma is practical vs. artistic. As 
an example, the fireplace is no 
longer necessary fortunately, but 
nonetheless has been designed 
bigger, and made a central part 
of many new homes.
Prof. Vetter sadly pointed to an 
imbalance in todays ideal cul
ture. An evolving set of ideals 
is to be expected, but such radi
cal changes as have recently oc
curred make our ideals (sup
posedly tenets of truth) look 
shallow and questionable. Architech Vetter gave the problem 
of What is an educated man? 
He first elaborated on what 
were taken as the attributes of 
the educated European man. At 
the age of 10, he would have 
four modern languages mastered. 
By age 18, he would have added 
Greek and Latin, in addition to 
his studies in the humanities. 
This, added with a solid back
ground of Christian training, was 
to prepare him for the university, 
where he would take up one or 
more of the basic humanities 
(law, .theology). Today, we are 
knowledge of professional tricKs, 
substituting this training with a 
with success going to the one who 
has mastered the most tricks.
This Week in Pittsburgh
THURSDAY, MARCH 4
Film Arts  Sherlock, Jr. (U.S. 1924) Buster Keaton 
Shown at 4:30, 6:00 and 9:30. Room 100  Porter Hall.
FRIDAY, MARCH 17
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall  Harold 
Betters Quartet  8:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh Symphony  Eugene Ormandy, guest 
Conductor  Bach-Ormandy  Toccata and Fugue 
in d minor; Anton Webern  Im Sommerwind
Idylle for Large Orchestra; Paul Hindetnith  
Symphony, Mathis der Maler; Brahms  Symphony 
No. 2 in d Major.
SATURDAY, MARCH 16
Syria Mosque  San Francisco Ballett
CONTINUING EVENTS
Penn  Follow the Boys Connie Francis, Russ 
Tamblyn
Gateway  Diamond Head Charlton Heston, 
France Nuyen 
Fulton  The Longest Day
Nixon  Mutiny on the Bounty Marlon Brando 
Guild  Phaedra
Shadyside  Two for the Seesaw Robert Mitchum 
and Shirley McLaine 
Squirrel Hill  David and Lisa
Playhouse  Bye Bye Birdie Craft Avenue 
Fifth Season Hamlet Street 
Anna Kleiber Theatre Upstairs
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
Painting and Design  Exhibitions
Paintings by Russel Twiggs  Hewlett Gallery  
Through March 22 
Calligraphy by Fine Arts Students  Porter 
Garnett Gallery in A. H.  Through March 26 
Music Department
March 14  Student-Faculty Convocation: Recital 
12:30 p.m., Exhibition Hall 
Concerto in E minor  Mendelssohn  John 
Prunchak, Violin; Lorraine Caal, accompanist 
Sonata I in B minor  Bach, Joan Bressman, 
Flute; Lorraine Gaal, piano.
Recitative and Aria from Orfeo  Josepha 
Gayer, mezzo-soprano; Ruth Topping, 
accompanist
Cinq Melodies Popularies Grecques  Ravel  
Judy Zazetakis, Soprano; Ruth Topping, 
accompanist 
Students and faculty are invited to attend.
teCARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECMNOLOOY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. . 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA.
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Portage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc
Editor-in-chief ..............................Martin Atkermann
Executive Editor...................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ......................................Miron Straf
News Editor ....................................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor..................................Jan Scharp
Features Editor ..................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ....................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager ......................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor.............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .........,...............Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebauin, Colin Jones. Margie Park. H$nry Henderson,
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf, and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Sue Stitt, Marion Mulligan, Drew 
Lippay, Dick Elder, Frit/. Klinke, Tom Glassberg.
News Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moo*e. Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stalinsky, Jaye Lapidus, Elie Denbeig. Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan. Lois 
Elinoff. Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Marty Sauer. Chuck Sleinme.ver, Peggy 
Riva, Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp. Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfsdn, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sport: Scott McCormick. Ken Kantrowltz.
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson, George Kail and Jay Priest.
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter. Jane Skeehan, Ruth Gef-hekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lie berm an, Jeffrey 
Axelrad, Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer. Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.
Copy Staff: Jane Keeler, Barbara Brown, Jane Samuels, Diane Brown, Mary 
Muir, Claire Dzatko, Nancy Green, Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream, Nancy Cameron. 
**Jolerphy: Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson.

---------------------------------------------------

If youd like to check into the new things going on at IBM  and the significant profes
sional opportunities opening up there see your college placement officer and make an 
appointment to talk with IBM representatives. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
We will be visiting the campus March 19 and 20, 1963. Or write to me: R. W. Paulin, 
Branch Manager, IBM Corporation, 421 7th Ave., Pittsburgh 19, Pennsylvania. CO 1-6880. 
Research  Development Engineering  Manufacturing Engineering  Programming  Marketing  Systems Engineering  Customer Engineering
Wednesday, March 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 5
Greek Swing Features 
Jazz Concert, Dance
&
(continued from page 1)
the Hill, Zekil Saw de 
Wheel, T. Pyke 
hi Omega, Prayer, Nymphs 
 and Shepherds, J. Vacco 
Theta Xi, All Glory, Laud, and 
Honor, Soon Ah Will be 
Done, L. Trowbridge.
Kappa Sigma, Exhaliaration, 
The Silken Tent, F. Sammel 
Delta Gamma, Ora Pro Nobis, 
St. Gregorys Day, D. Gantos 
Delta Upsilon, Song of the Vaga
bonds, Ave Maria, K. Ma
te jka
Ipha Epsilon Phi, Agnus Dei,
Ptities Voixes, P. Cohen 
Phi Kappa Theta, Ole Arks a 
Moverin, Waterboy, J. Bryan 
Tau Delta Phi, O Filii et Filiae, 
Ride the Charior, N. Huguley 
Kappa Alpha Theta, Hes Gone 
Away, Didn't My Lord De
liver Daniel, L. Ruch.
Beta Theta Pi, The Creation, 
I Hear a Voice a-Prayin, J. 
Merrifield 
Delta Delta Delta, Reiterlied, 
The Silver Swan, Toni Sams 
Sigma Nu, Oh What Delight, 
Oh Sing and Be Joyful, J. 
MacGregor
SHOESSHOESSHOES
WALLY'S
F.eaT  Y.-,DCV
Women
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Kappa Kappa Gamma, H e,
Watching Over Israel, Ah, Si 
Mon Moine Voulait Danser, D. 
Dayton
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Brothers, 
Sing On, My Lord, What a 
Morning, W. Tamarelli 
Sigma Kappa, Praise ye the Fa
ther, Greensleeves, J. Whittredge
Delta Tau Delta, Kemo-Kino, 
Lift Thine Eyes, D. Graves
Deatlt of Botanist 
Mrs. Roy A. Hunt /
Saddens Campus
The Tartan notes with regret 
the death of Mrs. R. A. Hunt, who 
passed away on Friday, February 
24, 1963. Mrs. Hunt was widely 
known as a botanist and horticul
turist, and her work in gardening
circles brought her national hon
ors. She and her husband, former 
president of Alcoa, made a grant 
of $2,800,000 toward the library 
which bears the Hunt name. 7 L e 
greater part of her book coll'y - 
tions are shelved there.
Mrs. Hunt was honored Xifcst 
month by the Pittsburgh Jutjtr 
Chamber of Commerce as one Jri 
the areas ten foremost comnj! nity leaders. She is survived Vy 
I her husband and four sons.
Youll find new ways of doing things at
Weinsteins for Wizards
ailBron Smart coohieS7 
WJe o^er the prodigious 
in Sandwiched and desserts, 
^i jothincj but delicious,
MU. 2-7752 3708 Forbes St.
American Express and Diners Credit Cards honored
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best 
after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than bums. 
Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it 
helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer's crisp, long-lasting aroma 
just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because 
of this effect. -
How intelligent! CM]
Does a man really take unfair advantage of women 
when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?

---------------------------------------------------

fw   CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, Mreh 18, IMS
Pgh. Artists Display 
High Technical Skill
By PROFESSOR ENGEL
The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh Exhibit presently 
at the Carnegie Institute impresses the spectator by its sus
tained quality as well as its impressive quantity. Consisting 
of over five hundred pieces of painting, water-color, graph
ics, drawing, sculpture and crafts, the show clearly indicates 
not only an active, but a very large community of practicing 
artists, 217 of whom are represented here. Even so, this is 
not so significant as is the fact that this group has collectively 
achieved an extremely high degree of technical competence 
and formal discipline. *---------------------------------------------------
Ironically, this is both its suc
cess and failure. Though regional, 
this exhibit constitutes a clear 
counter-statement to any charge 
of either provincialism or ama
teurism. Professional competence 
is one of the outstanding attrib
utes of this gathering, but by the 
same token, except for a very 
few works, brilliance or excite
ment are notably absent. Such ex
pressions as intuitive, creative or 
profound seem strangely out of 
place. Instead, cleverness, skill, 
facility and disciplined are more 
appropriate descriptive terms.
This lack of feeling, poetry or 
meaning (and I dont mean 
paraphrasable content) is signifi
cant. There is an evident mid
century American demand for 
technical competence which has 
produced a preoccupation with 
the mechanical business of mak
ing art objects. What was once 
a Means in art has become an 
End. This crafty quality is an
other striking aspect of the show 
as a whole. In crafts proper, such 
aparent manual and technical in
volvement is an appropriate and 
essential element of the work. But 
when it begins to intrude in paint
ing and sculpture, frequently do
minating it, then one must point 
out a confusion of means and 
ends. It is not without significance 
that a large number of collages, 
assemblages and pastiches of 
real objects are represented in 
the exhibit.
To be sure, there is a worth
while esthetic effect to be realized 
from the use of such found ob
jects, such as buttons, clothes
pins, bathroom scales, electric 
motors, or automobile wheels, as 
well as the pop subjects from 
magazine advertisements. The 
juxtaposition of these real ob
jects and their formal context in 
the work of art transmits a dyna
mic perception; a shock or thrill. 
The associations which such ob
jects generate invite a reading of 
the work; in other words, some
thing about the world of these ob
jects is also said. This initial thrill 
or surprise at finding paintbrushes 
or scraps of magazine covers in 
the museum does wear off how
ever, and only a strong feel for 
the painterly or sculptural ex
pressiveness of the material, not 
its borrowed form, can make the 
work endure. Similarly, the im
pact of manual dexterity in any 
work of art quickly fades and 
after the initial impress, other and 
deeper esthetic qualities are either 
revealed, or found conspicuously 
absent. Craft and an acute sense 
of material are essential, but they 
must not dominate the work.
The major portion of the col
lection is more traditional in the 
use of media, but even the free 
works employing the vocabulary
rate with date...
Fora meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
kotei Web>4tm Halt
4415 Rflfc Av*nw Pittsburgh 13, Pci. 
T*l*phon#: MAyAcw*r 1-7700
of the expressionist and action 
painters, seem rather tight. If the 
craft elements do not dominate 
the canvas, as they do not in the 
majority of works represented, 
then the structure or organiza
tional elements assume an analog
ous role. Even the most loosely 
woven and, ostensibly spontane
ously developed painting seems to 
be built upon an apparent skele
ton, which is, too often, the very 
substance and total import of the 
work. The predominant academic 
discipline and formal preoccupa
tion of many of the artists repre
sented in this exhibit are revealed. 
Those works in the hard-edge 
(continued on page 7)City Wood by Carol Schalk.
Many engineering and scientific graduates have that as an objective  achieving 
it is ia reality at UACs Corporate Systems Center.
CSC was formed to bring together under one management the vast technical 
resources of United Aircraft (one of the nations forty largest corporations) and 
its world-famous divisions. A young, relatively small organization, CSC is 
engaged in all phases of systems work in areas such as stellar inertial guidance, 
mobile ballistic missiles, weather technology, bio-science systems, orbital ren
dezvous and satellite navigation and control.
Rapid expansion in programs provides exceptional advancement potential for 
capable graduates. CSCs small company environment coupled with the 
stability and benefits of a major corporation provide an ideal climate for 
professional growth.
In the heart of picturesque New England, we are located almost exactly midway 
between Boston and New York City only brief parkway hours from each.
Investigate CSC career advantages during our visit. If you are unable to see 
our placement representative during interviews on your campus, write to 
Mr. R. A. Fuller, Box 1047, Broadstreet Station, Manchester, Connecticut  an 
equal opportunity employer.
Opportunities for Chemists, Physicists, Biologists, Mathematicians, Civil, Aero
nautical, Mechanical, Electrical and Chemical Engineers,Metallurgists, 
Meteorologists, Oceanographers, Geophysicists and others.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
See your College 
Placement Officer for 
more information 
and an appointment.I
TUESDAY, MARCH 26
UnitedAircraft
CORPORATE SYSTEMS CENTER
Windsor Locks, Connecticut

---------------------------------------------------

WdftMdsr, March 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Pi 7
Relict, a large monochrome 
painting by Joann Maier sets 
large canvas and sweeping undu
lating brush-work against the re
straint of variations on one color 
into shapes subtly slipping into 
one another. The wave-like hori
zontal motion is checked by the 
two vertical inner frames which 
interpenetrate to suggest a large 
distorted square lifting itself from 
the geometric confines of the pic
ture frame, tugging from lower 
left to upper right.
Eugene Kalinowskis Seated 
Figure is built upon a single leit
motif of the spiral to achieve not 
merely a clever and suggestive 
figure study, but this spiral repe
tition imparts a unity to the sub
ject and its abstractive import on 
the picture surface at once ex
pressiveand decorative. By the 
skillful use of near neutral wash
es, darks, and lights atmosphere 
and space are introduced impart
ing a mood or tone which adds 
another dimension to the drawing. 
His Clothed Model is a vibrant 
swelling Renoir-like form in its 
fullness, but is clothed in a 
nervous and jagged series of black 
or white brushstrokes which both 
define the plasticity of the figure 
and set it vibrating.
An extremely complex work, 
Russel Twiggs Zeit No. 8 is an 
exercise in the limited palette and 
the Baroque device of crowding 
the darks. Within the rough textured predominantly black surface
which creates a broad inner 
frame, a tunnel shaped ovoid re
cedes in space formed by restless
ly brushed dark and cool reds be
low and light-like siennas filter
ing in from behind the dark enframement above. A subterranean 
and cavernous space into the cen
ter of the canvas is both made 
by and fights with the sculptural 
knife-spread surface.
In spite of its short comings, 
which are not to be minimized, 
this show clearly displays high 
artistic standards, a broad range 
of interest in styles and technique 
and uniformly good taste. It 
should command a great deal of 
respect and admiration for this 
community. If, because of its size, 
this exhibit has something of the 
flavor of an art supermarket, 
then one is obliged to acknow
ledge the premium quality of its 
products.
SENIORS
Looking for W ork!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg.
Pittsburgh 19, Penna.
Telephone: 471-9319
Zeit No. 8 by Russell Twiggs
Formal Study Stifles Artist?
(continued from page 6) 
style are by nature structural and 
architectonic. But those paintings 
^,which make an issue of spontane
ity and verve, and in which the 
paint flows, blends and fuses, 
should be far less dependent upon 
a linear frame-work. The hanger 
should be removed from the coat 
before it is put on. It would seem 
that too many people for too long 
a time have heeded Clive Bells 
sonorous warning about art being 
nothing but Significant Form 
without having asked, significant 
^of what?
The diversity of techniques and 
styles in this exhibition is impres
sive and refreshing. There is, 
however, an over abundance of 
non-figurative and abstract works. 
To be sure, the final merits of a 
painting do not swing on the pres
ence or absence of subject-matter. 
Yet, this aspect of art becomes an 
issue when it is an obvious gen
eric trait in an exhibition. It can 
 only partially be attributed to the 
jury selection. One must, of 
course, credit those artists who 
avoid the inclusion of the figure 
simply because it has become this 
seasons vogue. On the other 
hand, the now over-long domin
ance of an avoidance of represen
tation gives this otherwise varied 
collection a somewhat uniform 
and conservative stamp. As with 
all generalities, there are notf able exceptions, to be sure. I wonder if this strong formal commit
ment is not attributable to a per
vasive academic atmosphere of 
this art community. Though sta
tistics elude me, the number of 
teachers of art, or students pre
sently studying with teachers of 
art, among the represented artists 
must be impressive. I am neither 
stating nor implying that art 
teachers are all abstractionists. I 
 am, however, speculating about 
the consequences of an intellectual 
and pedagogical environment for 
the artist. It is well known that 
abstraction and formalism have 
become the backbone of the aca
demic tradition. In some cases, the 
artist bas never taken the oppor
tunity to develop an abstract idea. 
The pressures of frequent exhibi
tion and a novelty seeking market 
ideas, driving many artists into 
. an annual model change of style 
* or compositional elements and 
devices.
One final generalization is in 
order. The various rooms of this 
exhibition are filled with brilliant
ly colored works. The collective 
palette is intense. The colors are 
bright, almost shouting. A few, to 
be accurate, use the subdued ex
tremes of the near-black or near
white range but most, even the 
^ monochromatic ones, achieve a 
color brilliance both directly
through a lot of color on a lot of 
canvas and vigorously applied 
strokes. The surfaces of many are 
free, vital and explosive. Con
trasts and complementarles are 
juxtaposed for their vibrant ef
fects. Underneath this exuber
ance, however, lurks the con
straining framework of a usually 
linear structure, a director of the 
movements of the eye, an inhib
itor of the sense of action so latent 
in the best of them. These artists 
have created disciplined works of 
art like their disciplined children, 
bright, clever and well-behaved.
Henry Casillis tree-like form, 
Reflection, uses the rough, welded 
line on channel iron to form a 
geometric frame of a single verical, supporting a single horizontal 
arm, T-shaped and of random 
length. This horizontal member 
sends spidery wires of varying 
length with leaf-like squarish 
brass petals both upward and 
downward. There is marked con
trast between the coarse weld 
seam, and the delicacy of the 
grass or reed-like branches, which 
tremble nervously. The downward 
ones play a counterpoint to the 
upward ones, the whole work im
parting a sense of linear balance 
and restless motion. Rather than 
sculptural mass, the essence of 
this work is its framed geometry 
of line. The associations with na
ture forms are unmistakable and 
conflict with the metal-and-weld 
artificality. And esthetic vitality 
results.
A gigantic understatement may 
best describe Rebecca Bermans 
large canvas Immanence. A single 
whitish part-circle part-rectangle 
shape establishes a tension be
tween the rigidly rectangular 
frame of the canvas and the care
ful irregularity of the form which 
ambiguously asserts itself by 
pressing forward from the surrounding darker background, 
while simultaneously tricking the 
eye into becoming a gaping hole 
into a vast nebulous nothingless. 
In her Time Out of Mind, monu
mental scale gives way to subtle 
nuances of Vermeer-like hues in 
the background which, from a dis
tance, assume the import of order
ing planes holding the central, al
most black, rectangular forms in 
place. The impact of this work is 
its restraint.
The muted colors of Carol 
Schalks City Wood are more ex
pressive of the subject aspect of 
the painting  the landscape  
than the swirling flecks of their 
brush strokes which sweep them 
into whirling circular motion. 
Denying a broad or intense pal
ette, the artist depends upon the 
circular structure of the trees; 
thick, short black lines upon 
free action of the surface ro
tates into a wind-driven motion. 
There is a precarious balance be
tween the expressionist domin
ance of an active surface and the 
formal restraint of the landscapes 
structure underneath.
Gertrude Halfs Luna is organ
ized upon a strong vertical and 
horizontal framework. The thick 
dark rising form which sits slight
ly to the left of center bends en
ough to the right to locate a focal 
point and to break what would 
otherwise be a static geometry 
into an asymmetric radiation 
emanating from that point of in
tersection. The off-center color 
patches, emphasized by their re
duced size, locate and activate the 
nucleus, the source of energy and 
action. A first impression of spon
taneity gives way to an acute 
sense of controlled linearity.
Coming closest to the feeling of 
the poetic, though by no means 
lyric, is the Design for a Fountain 
by Robert Lepper. In the form of 
a visual metaphysical conceit, the 
juxtaposition of the typewriter 
innards assembled to suggest a 
peacock with a fanning tail in
vites comparison with the strange 
image relationships of Wallace 
Stevens, where two totally unre
lated images are brought into 
close association. This is more 
than mere wit! The tensions 
which are the consequence of this 
interplay of typewriters and peacoks, of real objects and sculp
tural forms, are not merely com
ments upon the world outside of 
art, but are the very stuff of the 
esthetic experience.
Go A.F.O.TS.!
These letters stand for Air Force Officer Train
ing Schoolthe gateway to an Air Force career 
for ambitious college men who didnt have the 
chance to enroll in AFROTC.
OTS is a tough course. But its a great oppor
tunity-one that may not always be available. 
If youre within 210 days of graduation, we 
welcome your application now. We cant guar
antee that well be able to in a year.
As an Air Force officer, youll be a leader on
the Aerospace Team. Youll be serving your 
country while you get a flying headstart on 
an exciting career.
The U.S. Air Force is at the forefront of every 
vital new technological breakthrough of the 
Aerospace Age. It sponsors one of the world's 
most advanced research and development 
programsand you can be part of it.
OTS is open to both men and women. For 
information, see your local recruiter.
U.S. Air Force
No A.F.R.O.T.C.?

---------------------------------------------------

Paje 8  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 13, 19S
Scotchll Soda Presents Miss...
Rehearsals Begin For 63 Production
Once again your faithful report
er risked life, limb, and Sunday 
breakfast to venture towards 
room 54, where the board direc
tors of S n S' meet weekly, to 
present the Tartan readers with 
the usual truth.
After a four hour wait, Butch 
Davis, business manager, on his 
way to a Skibo coffee break, em
erged from the room. He was ap
proached on the recent develop
ments of the forthcoming produc
tion which went into rehearsals 
last week.
Mr. Davis was cordial and ob
liging. He remarked that reBatchelder
Receives 
Dan forth Grant
Richard L. Batchelder, YMCA 
executive and coordinator of re
ligious affairs at Tech, is among 
22 campus ministers to be ap
pointed by the Danforth Founda
tion to receive the Danforth Cam
pus Ministry Grant for 1963-1964.
The award winners were chosen 
on the basis of professional 
growth, intellectual promise, vi
tality of religious commitment, 
and dedication to the profession of 
the campus ministry. The award 
allows for an academic year of 
graduate study in a university or 
theological school of the candi
dates choosing.
Each year a conference dealing 
with the profession of the campus 
ministry and its place in higher 
education is held in mid-summer 
for the recently selected grant re
cipients.
Mr. Batchelder received his B.A. 
degree from Pomona College and 
his B.D. degree from Yale Uni
versity. He came to Carnegie Tech 
in 1957.
Matveyevskiy 
Completes 
Campus Tour
Dr. R. M. Matveyevskiy, of the 
Institute for Machine Studies in 
Moscow, U.S.S.R., will complete 
his visit to Carnegie Tech today.
Dr. Matveyevskiys visit is un
der the auspices of the Academy 
of Sciences of the U.S.S.R. and 
the National Academy of Sciences 
of the United States. While at 
Carnegie Tech, he delivers a lec
ture on Research on Antifrictional Properties of Lubricants by 
Calculation of Their Interaction 
with Metals.
He spoke on Monday, March 11, 
at 3:30 p.m. in the Scaife Hall 
Auditorium.
Saalman 
Gi\ es Lecture
Dr. Howard Saalman, associate 
professor of the history of archi
tecture at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, will deliver the fourth 
in a series of five lectures on 
Classical Principles in Urban 
design on Tuesday, March 19.
Dr. Saalman will talk on The 
Malthusian Menace, on Le Bour
geois Chez Soi: Haussmanns
Paris at 8:00 p.m. in the audi
torium of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration.
The lectures are sponsored by 
the department of architecture at 
Carnegie Tech and are free and 
open to the public.
, hearsals are proceeding on sched
ule and are going well. When 
questioned as to the title of the 
show. Butchs face lit up with 
pleasure. He replied. Of course, 
EVERYONE knows S n S' is Pre
senting Miss . . .
Then, as a crash of chairs echo
ed from within the room, a non
descript hand, faintly resembling 
Dean Browns, grasped Butch 
brutally by the neck and dragged 
him back within the confines of 
the room.
The voice of Regina Ress was
| heard over the concurring noise 
i which followed Butchs hasty de
parture . . . Mr. Davis, EVERY
ONE DOES NOT KNOW !
So Ladies and gentlemen. I can 
j only tell you what you may al! ready know, S n S Is Presenting 
! Miss . . .
So, in the rooms at Morewood, 
in the basement of Machinery 
Hall, in the archives of the li
brary from the tables at Skibo, 
ring the perplexing cries of the 
students . . . S n S Presents Miss 
I . . . What?
i TOOT'S BARBER SHOP
? SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
% NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
 125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
| New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Crab a Snack ... or Dinner
... oi RITTERS D3NER
5321 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
STUDENT 
TRAVEL... 
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD!
STUDY-TRAVEL
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling42-46 land days ... from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR 
Scandinavia  Spain 
Turkey  South America 
Israel  Greece 
36-60 land days ... from $510 also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card....................................................... $1.00
Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants)... $1.00
Work, Study, Travel Abroad............................................................ $1.00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 
20 West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y 
OXford 5-5070USNSA fa a non-profit organization serving the American student community
The story o a classic
1959
1963
In many ways the story of the Thunderbird is one of 
the most unusual in the automobile business. The 
whole idea of the car was born at one of the great 
European automobile shows. The then president of 
our company pointed to some of the small, lush sports 
cars that are always a center of attention at such 
shows and asked his companion, "Why can't we build 
something like these?"
The companion, who later became a vice president 
of the company, said, "It just so happens I have one 
on the boards. I'll show it to you when we get back to 
Detroit." Then as fast as he could discreetly get to a 
transatlantic telephone he called his assistant and told 
him, "Remember that car we've been talking about? 
Finish those sketches on it."
The Thunderbird became one of the few cars ever 
built that was produced essentially as the original 
sketches presented it. Most cars undergo countless 
changes in the design period. But there was a natural 
clarity and cleanness to the Thunderbird design that 
immediately captured all of us at Ford.
It was probably this clean, sharp look that won so 
many friends so fast when the car went into produc
tion. That first Thunderbird had its drawbacks. For 
example, it was too soft-sprung for true sports-car 
handling. But, the truth is, it was not designed in the 
European tradition of the fast performance car. Some 
people called it a sports car but we never did. We 
called it a "personal car; a small, fairly luxurious car 
that was fun to look at and fun to drive. It had its 
own integrity: it was one aione.
We built the Thunderbird as a bellwether car for 
Ford. It was our intention to test new ideas before 
we put them into our Fords, Fairlanes and Falcons. 
The new Ford ride and Swing-Away steering wheel 
appeared first on the Thunderbird, for instance. How
ever, we never foresaw the extraordinary influence, 
Thunderbird would have on the whole automobile 
business here and abroad. Almost everybody offers 
the Thunderbird bucket seats these days. And the 
Thunderbird look is the most decisive styling of the '60s.
The Thunderbird is a classic, made so by a peculiar 
blend of magic ingredients of which we would love 
to know the secret. We're building cars right now we 
hope will become classics, but the truth is, we don't 
make classics, we make cars. People make the car a 
classic. And that's the story of the Thunderbird.
Americas liveliest, 
most care-free cars!FORD
MLOON . fMfUAMf. . FONO  TMU0CKWW
60 YEARS THE SYMBOL Of DEPEN0A8LE PR00UCTSMOTOR COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Marek 13, \9*Z A CARNEGIE TECH  Pas 9
HMorrison Leads Team In Points; 
Laird Is Most Valuable Player
Sophomore Ray Morrison led 
the Carnegie Tech basketball team 
with a 15-1 point per game aver
age, acording to final statistics re
leased by the Atheltic Office. Two
jher players averaged in double 
gures. George Frazier hit for an 
11.6 average for 13 games before 
I failing out of school. Another 
sophomore, Jules Borkowski had 
a 10.8 average.
For the season as a whole, the 
final record for Tech was 9-11, a 
far cry from last years 4-21. A 
glance at final statistics shows the 
j mechanics of the improvement, 
j For 20 games, Tech averaged 64.5 
compared to their oponents 62.9. 
Steven with the Tartans small 
team, they were only outrebounded by 22 grabs, 868 to 846.
Laird MVP 
Voted Most Valuable Player by 
the team itself was senior Joe 
'Elbows Laird who distinguished 
! himself by his superb defensive 
play, led the team in rebounding 
with 134 despite being hobbled 
for three games with a sprained 
tinkle, led the team in field goal 1 percentage with a .525 average, 
and contributed to the scoring 
with an 8.8 average per game.
Although not official, the title of 
Most Improved Player would pro
bably have to be shared by three 
men, sophomores George MeTarquans 
Rehearse For 
Demonstration
Tarquans, Techs synchronized j 
swimming club, has once again j 
started rehearsals for their an
nual spring demonstration. The 
j ^jnain purpose of the club is the 
I Advancement of the art of syn
chronized swimming. Tryouts for 
membership were held the first 
three Tuesdays after semester 
j break and now everyone is set
tling down to some hard work and 
fun. This year the Tarquans 
demonstration will be held on the 
evening of April 2, and is open to 
anyone who wishes to attend. Ad
mission is free. In addition to the 
! Tarquan clubs five numbers, a 
plumber will also be performed by 
the University of Pittsburghs 
synchronized swimming club.
Geary and Sam Cupps, and junior j 
Andy Niedra.I
Most Improved
Moving up from last years 
freshman team, Cupps appeared 
in all 20 games and placed second 
to Laird in the rebounding derby, 
grabbing 124. He also emerged 
with a 6.9 ppg average. Neidra, 
the sparkplug of several vital 
Tech rallies, improved constantly 
as the season progressed and em
erged as third leading rebounder 
and contributed a 5.6 average. Big 
George McGeary say little action 
at the beginning of the season but 
came on strong to give Coach Mel 
Cratsley the vital big man under 
the boards.
Season High Points 
High points of the season in
cluded a narrow 71-68 loss to the 
then top rated Westminster 
Titans, and the game closest to
Technical perfection that the Tar
tans played all year, a 67-57 win 
over the W & J Presidents on 
the Prexies home boards. Led by 
Ray Morrison with 33 points, Tech 
shot a blistering .625 percentage, 
lost the ball very few times, and 
successfully parried the Presi
dents full court press that had 
driven other opponents to distrac
tion.
Credit Where Due
Credit for the improved season 
record should be distributed in a 
number of places. A hustling team 
and a great deal of team desire 
deserves mention, as does a new 
zone defense instituted this year 
by Coach Cratsley.
Only seniors Joe Laird, Paul 
Rizzo and Larry Ritchie will de
part from the team this year, leav
ing behind a solid nucleus of vet
erans to carry on the war next 
year.
(fgfgpetftaftpetrbspfdisq ptsvMorrison*0305126.4026749.7316450030115.1
Borkowski118381.44386435006541220510.8
Laird19] 182.5255943.7291345541678.8
Frazier11 <262.3603427.7945937115111.6
Cupps210147.4667744.5721246641386.9
Niedra20J0442.4044429.659120231135.6
Werrenen188430.3662518.7205019784.3
McGeary175424.4442012.60086251603.6
Ritchie152916.556147.5003124e392.6
Rizzo812*5.41764.667710141.8
Thomas15185.2786].167185011.7
Newell1064.6672].50036- .9
Johnson88%.25010.0000I041.6
Rupnik2020.00000.000310
TOTALS20119450.424441278.63081636013129064.5
OPPONENTS201173463.395488333.682868336125962.9
NOW SHOWING
Walt Disney presents 
Maurice Chevalier 
Haley Mills 
in Jules Vernes
CASTAWAYS
al?o Jerry Lewis
ITS ONLY MONEY
Starting Wed. 20th
Ingernar Bergman presents 
two great pictures
THE DEVILS EYE 
and
THE SECRETS 
OF WOMEN
MU. 3-6992
Engineering Trainees s6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
Photo by Aron Collons
Borkowski scores for Tech.
S AN OPPORTUNITY TO GROW 
IN THE HIGHEST PROFESSIONAL 
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
YOUNG MAN
a word 
of caution 
from
CRICKETEER
Dont get caught with 
your appearance down 
...there's no more 
excuse for the 
Summer squashed 
look. Cricketeers 
Magna 2x2 tropical 
is cool, lightweight 
and holds its neat, 
natural lines. 
This perfect blend of 
Dacron* polyester 
and worsted sprints 
through Spring and the 
long hot summer, 
always in the trim.
$55.00
OJiiP (Etmrlj Hmtjsp
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone JA. 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings until S:(W
HwHThRyTAw HNeyNHHRt 
auityTytht 
fAhuHfAhyTyANt
Technical representatives 
of the MITRE Corporation 
will be conducting interviews 
on campusMarch 20, 1963
MITRE designs and develops systems that enable our mili
tary commanders to detect attack and retaliate instantly. 
Typical systems include Nuclear Detection and Reporting 
Systems, North American Air Defense Combat Operations 
Center, and Back Up Interceptor Center. MITRE is also 
experimenting with techniques for future air traffic con
trol systems.
For the young systems engineer there is no more rewarding 
work. You associate with the top men in your field. You 
work in an atmosphere that allows you to extend your 
capabilities professionally and academically.
At MITRE, men trained in single disciplines are encour
aged to grow beyond their original fields of interest. Systems 
designers learn to work from an increasingly broad base.
You may work in such diverse areas as information 
theory, computer design, display techniques, propagation, 
or human engineering. You may analyze. You may syn
thesize. You may deal with systems or individual compo
nents. At the highest levels, you may have to consider 
political, economic and social factors ... as well as the 
available and predictable technology.
Requirements, B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in these disciplines  
electronics, physics, and mathematics. MITRE is located in 
pleasant, suburban Boston. If an interview will be incon
venient, inquiries may be directed in confidence to Vice 
President  Technical Operations, The MITRE Corpora
tion, Box 208, Dept. CT3, Bedford, Mass.
MITRE, an independent nonprofit corporation, working 
with  not in competition with  industry, serves as tech
nical advisor to the Air Force Electronic Systems Division, 
and is chartered to work for such other Government 
agencies as the Federal Aviation Agency.
ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW 
THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
T H E
MITRE
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

RNHe io  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 13, 1963
 Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes,.too.
 Save by the 10th  earn, from the first.
 All savings insured up to $1(1,000.
_FBANKUM FEDfPii
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL ge 
DIVIDENDS 
OF
Franklin FEDERAL
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
5816 FORBES AVE SQUIRREL HILL
Over 35 Yearn of Service to the Pittsburgh Commun it*
open every Tueidoy evening 
7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
auroMil. Academy's 
Chinese Bandits 
Whip Tartans
The United States Military 
Academy walked away with seven 
out of the first eight individual 
places and the first and second 
place team medals in the NRA In
tercollegiate Sectional Rifle Match 
held at West Point this past week
end. The bright spot for Carnegie 
Tech was freshman Mike Knepley j 
who won first place among ROTC 
competitors with a fine 286 score. 
He was high man for Tech in the 
individual competitions and the, 
seventh high individual in the 
match. This score should earn 
Mike a national medal which 
would be presented at the ROTC 
Deans review in the spring.
Carnegies number one team, 
coached by SFC Dobrzykowski, 
took fifth place with an 1118 out 
of 1200 behind three army teams 
and the University of Massachus
etts. West Points Block squad 
broke the Academy record with j 
an 1160 scor e while the Cadet j 
Grey team took second with an 
1143 total. The University of Mas
sachusetts was third with 1140 
and the Armys Gold team edged 
out Tech for fourth with an 1120. 
The Tartans second team placed 
eighth in the competition with a 
score of 1073.
An interesting and encouraging 
sidelight for Tech was the fact ! 
that in the ROTC competition, the 
Tartans took four out of the first 
five places.
Next year, Techs opponents 
should find the going a lot rough
er since Carnegie will have their 
entire team back including juniors 
Joe Schlitt and Ed Holtgraver, 
Sophomore Mike Ray, and Fresh
men Mike Knepley, Bob Fritz, 
Tuck Arnold, Scott McCormick, 
Bill Thiel, and Judt Peterson. Also 
coming to Tech are two former 
Carnegie riflemen who dropped 
out of school for a year and are 
now returning.
Carnegie Tech I
ProneKneelStandTotal
Knepley. M 999089278
Holtsrave. E. 999187277
Schlitt. W. 10010081281
Ray,M. 1009389282
1118
Carnegie Tech II
ProneKneelStandTotal
McCormick. S. 988980267
Arnod. R. 999281272
ThielW. 988574257
FritzR. 1009483277
1073
IndividualScores
CarnegieTech
ProneKneelStandTotal
MikeKnepley 999394286
MikeRay 1009486280
Ed Holtgrve 979092279
TuckArnold 999189279
JoeSchlitt 988889275
BobFritz 1009376269
Scot)McCormick 987589262
BillThiel 978975261
Team Scores
USMA  Black 1160
USMA Grey 1143
U. of Mass. 1140
USMA -Gold 1120
Carnegie Tech I 1118
Sienna Col. 1093
Rutgers Scarlet' 1086
Carnegie Tech XI 1073
Rutgers Black 1054
TydywHNeyNHHRt
Investigate your Career withNEW YORK CITY GOVERNMENT
SecurityOpportunity 
And Benefits
Our engineering program in
cludes design and supervision 
of construction of public buildin". highways, bridges, and 
water supply, sanitation and 
port facilities.
Immediate Placement 
No Civil Service Test 
A a CIVIL ENGINEERING 
TRAINEE, your starting salary 
will be J6050; within 12 months 
it can be $7 I 00 with annual pay 
increases. Some of the MANY 
BENEFITS include: Promotion 
based on merit4 weeks vaca
tionpaid sick leave and II 
hoiidays  Outstanding and 
progressive retirement plan in
cluding city pension and social 
securityMilitary right* and 
privileges including training 
leaves with pay.
Write for application 
and further information to
Engineering Unit C"
Mew York City Personnel Department 
9*3 Duane Street, New York 7, N. Y.
DON'T DRAG YOUR WINTER CLOTHES HOME 
THIS SUMMER
Avoid moth and storage problems
Use our BOX STORAGE facilities
Safe garment protection in our cold storage vault

CRANDALL-McKENZIE
Cleanthru Dry Cleaners
3935 Forbes Ave. MA. 1-7500
Open 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
It's greasy, by George! But Vitalis with V-7 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis 
with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it today!
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SALUTE: GEORGE HUDSON, JR.
George Hudson, Jr. (B.S., 1960), has improved efficiency 
on just about every job Pennsylvania Bell has given him. 
Thats why he has climbed swiftly with the company.
On his present job at the West Chester Office, George 
supervises a group that coordinates the work of 46 in
stallers and repairmen. He sees to it that customer orders 
are handled swiftly a responsibility that calls for a lot 
of decisions and original ideas.
\  
On earlier assignments George supervised 12 repair
men, and handled special assignments for the District Plant 
Superintendent. Outstanding performance on both jobs 
earned George his present responsibilities.
George Hudson and other young men like him in Bell 
Telephone Companies throughout the country help bring 
the finest communications service in the world-to the 
homes and businesses of a growing America.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

W*dne*d?. March 13, 1963  CARNEGIE TECH  Page 11
Get the clean-cut taste of rich tobaccos 
,. .get with Camel. Get taste that speaks 
with authority. Distinctive. Alert. Al1 there. 
Camels got swaggeryet it's smooth. 
Get with Camel. Every inch a real smoke
...comfortably smooth, too!
The best 
tobacco 
makes the 
best smoke!
{i'KKmi notitene Btism I<; ; <. a Y< f y ou  _____- I
RAY BUCKNER Poior Novigation Specialist, U. S. Coast Guard. Cornel smokei? You bet!
Get on the BRANDWAGON ...its lots of fun!
Gary Back
Coach Clark is being confronted 
with strong representation in most 
events. Back for his final year 
is two-time MVP Dennis Gary, 
due to close out his career as one 
of Techs all-time Qreats. Gary 
notched 10 wins in 11 starts in 
the 100 last year, went unbeaten 
in the 220, and anchored the un^ defeated mile-relay team.
The distance events v/ill again 
be more than adequately filled, 
with four lettermen returning, 
plus another exceptional fresh
man crop. Mike Campbell and 
Tom Bednarz, the Mutt and Jeff 
the 440 record this year . . . pro
runner, participating in the 440 
or mile when needed.
Tom Terpak will be aiming for 
duo, will continue their quest of 
the Tech two-mile record, along 
with Ed Barvick, Paul Fackler, 
and possibly Bill Crookston.
Long a weak spot, the hurdles 
will be well-manned this year. 
Senior Kent McClean, who im
proved with rapid strides last 
year to pick up a second and 
third in the WPC meet, will be 
back along with Joe Thomas, a 
two-year letterman.
Versatile Runner
W Andy Niedra, fresh from cross
country and basketball, is to be 
regarded as a definite threat to 
the 880 record, having missed it 
by only one fifth of a second 
last year. Going after his ninth 
varsity letter in three years, 
Niedra is Techs most versitle 
vided he can spend more time 
running than he does on crutches 
or in tape. A potential 49 second 
man, Terpack was on his way to 
a good season last year when he 
sprained his ankle, forcing him 
out of four meets.
School Record Possible
Hank Werronen, a man of 
many talents, will divide his time 
among the 220, 440, and discus. 
Werronen took a second in the 
discus in the WPC meet, and 
garnered 7!4 points for Tech that 
day. The shot will again be in 
the capable hands of Jon Borofvil sky, the jolly giant who handles 
the iron weight like a softball..
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses. Manuscripts, 
Term Papers,  Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
IN THE COLLEGE
BRAND ROUND-UP
PRIZES:
First Price: I.. Tear choice tf TV, Stereo, or any reasonable ppliaitft or 
fixture in similar price range ($150.) or 
2. $150. in cash.
Second Priee: 1. Your choice < tapes, record albums, or appliance 
not to exceed $50. in price, or 
t. $50. in cash.
RULES:
1. All bonafide student groups and organizations consisting of 10 or more 
members eligible to enter contest.
2. Only Marlboro. Parliament, Alpine, and Philip Morris empty packs 
will be acceptable.
3. All packets must be turned in to the Philip Morris Campus 
Representative.
4. All packs become the property of Philip Morris, Inc.
5. W'inners will be notified shortly after the close of contest.
6. In the event of a tie, drawing will be made to determine the winner.
7. Contest closes and all packs must be turned in by 2:00 p.m., May 8. 1963.
8. Decision of the judges is final.
9. Any additional information needed, contact Rudy Molck-Ude at 
MUseum 1-1869.
10. Packs are to be submitted in bundles of 100.
WHO WINS:
Student group or organization submitting the greatest number of 
empty packs, per student member.
Team Has High Hopes 
As Training Begins
Although it may be hard tor
i imagine, spring is rapidly ap
proaching, and the crunch of 
spikes churning through cinders 
is a nightly sound at Tech Sta
dium. With apologies to Alfred, 
Lord Tennyson, In the spring 
a young mans fancey lightly 
turns to thoughts of track.
The Tech thinclads arent quite 
ready to challenge Oregon State 
for the NCAA championship, but 
they are expected to be one of 
the tri-state areas best teams. 
Last years team had a 5-5 rec
ord, a mark which could have 
easily been 8-2 with the shift 
of five points in each of three 
closely contested meets. Return
ing from this team, which missed 
the WPC crown by 3xk points, 
y are 14 of 16 lettermena strong 
nucleus for new coach Reed 
Clark.
Mr. Clark is a 1961 graduate 
of Pitt, w^heye he starred on the 
track and cross-country teams. 
At the initial meeting of the 
team, Mr. Clark previewed his 
training program, a preview that 
was accompanied by low moans 
from those present, signaling a 
lowered beer consumption on the 
"" Tech campus.
Borofsky .vill also be shooting for 
the school record.
In the pole-vault, sometimes 
skier Tony Wiliams and some
times quarterback Terry Heckler 
rule the roost. Both Williams and 
Heckler came within close range 
of the school record last year, 
with Williams also assisting in 
the highjump.
Sophomore Bob Diskin was 
number one in the broad jump 
last year, and he will return to 
the pit and sawdust once again. 
Diskin missed first place in the 
WPC meet last year by 1, 
though only a freshman.
Champs Back
The WPC champion mile-relay 
team, composed of Niedra, Ter
pack, Werronen, and Gary, went 
undefeated last year and came 
within 1.3 seconds of the 3:28.3 
school record. This mark should 
be one of the first to fall.
Practice is being held daily at 
Tech Field at 4:30. Interested 
freshmen and upperclassmen are 
urged to meet with Coach Clark 
and supply their talents. Techs 
first meet is scheduled with the 
Jeannette Harriars at 1:30, Sat
urday, April 6, at Tech Stadium.
.jt itt'}iHrld& Tobacco W inetoQ* Js. U
Photo by Aron Collons
Up oitd over goes a Tech 
vaulter in spring workouts 
which began recently.

---------------------------------------------------

yteN 18  CARNEGIE TECH  Wednesday, March 1*, 19
IM Basketball 
Continuing
by Richard Elder
Uninterrupted by the varsity 
for the first time in its four weeks 
of play, intramural basketball fill
ed last week with thirty-six 
games. The minor leagues receiv
ed sixteen game-spaces to compersate for the relatively few they 
usually receive as the program 
prepared for its final week of reg
ular play this year.
The Trojans W captured first 
place in the Warriors league by 
defeating the Roadrunners 30-29 
after a warm-up 75-31 rout of the 
Jaws in which Fink scored 24 
points for the victors and Layer 
scored 19 for the Jaws. PKT A 
also won two, with a 54-26 defeat 
of TX on* the strength of Al
brights 22 points and Langs 17 
points and-Pofers 16 points.
In the Lakers league, SAE A 
split two, as they squeeezed past 
PKA 44-42 prior to falling before 
a strong Grad Eagle team 53-29. 
DU B also split as they lost to 
the Finks B 46-28 then ran past 
PKA 42-29 utilizing Williams A 
58-27 with Yablon scoring 19 
points and Skowron scoring 20, 
after receiving a forfeit victory 
from the Trotters.
Vandelinde, by scoring 14 
points, helped keep Sigma Nu A' 
undefeated as they rolled past 
BSR 53-33 in the Celtic league. 
Osterhuis contributed 21 points 
to the cause as the Grad Eagles 
also remained undefeated after 
a 51-46 victory over BTP A. 
The Finks A lost two with 
A. The Finks A lost two with 
a 31-14 defeat by BSR and a 42- 
30 defeat by the Trojans B. In 
another contest, KS B squeezed 
past the Trojans 35-34.
Du A easily maintained their
TAKE A
BIG
STEPCLOSER TO YOUR FUTURE
Tuesday, March 12, 
You Can Take A Big Step
If you are a qualified engineering stu
dent who feels your future lies in re
search or applied engineering, be sure 
to see the Linde Company repre
sentative when he is interviewing on 
campus.
The VOLUM Laboratories provide 
an ideal growth environment for the 
scientific-minded. Significant is the 
fact that, in only 15 years, VOLUM re
search and applied engineering people 
have created products and facilities 
which now account for more than half 
of the companys total sales volume.
You can grow as VOLUM grows. 
Contact your engineering placement 
office now for an appointment.
LINDE 
COMPANY
E55N Company, Dimion of Union Carbide Corporation
AN EQUAl-QPPQRTUNITY EMPLOYER
lead in the Royals league as 
Rosch with 14 and Merrill with 
16 lead them to a 64-18 defeat of 
DTD, followed by a 47-37 defeat 
of ATO A in which Pavlik scor
ed 20 for the victors. The Vulcans 
also won two as Kelso scored 26 
to offset 25 scored by Tomilson for 
the Architects and the Vulcans 
defeated the Architects 59-43. In 
similar circumstances, the Vul
cans defeated the EE Grads 53-37 
on the strength of Kelsos 19 
points. TDP White managed a 
34-21 defeat of BDP B.
In the Knicks League, the BTP 
Greeks won, by forfeit, over the 
Banzai then crushed DTD B 42-
8; the Whales beat the Finks 33-31 
before running past the MorlochJ^ 
83-34; the Finks defeated ATO 
O 40-29 and the Radicals 46-44; 
PKT J defeated DTD 16-14 be
fore forfeiting to ATO; and the 
Morlochs defeated the Radicals 
66-62. In the Pistons league; SAE 
won by forfeit over GDI Z be
fore losing to the Mauraders 31- 
29; Sigma Nu B defeated the 
Mauraders 37-26 and the Clyd<A 
Streets 62-19; Pi KA J lost to 
the Scorpions 54-31 after winning 
a forfetit game from Clyde St.; 
and GDI recovered from their 
forfeit to defeat the Psi-Clods 
49-43.
Ollie Robling and Robert Rosche lunge for a rebound in 
the DU-ATO "A" IM game. DU won and pulled a major upset 
of the second seeded team in IM competition.
'63 METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING GRADS
Start at $8,400 with local corporation
No Agency Fee
Aid for graduate studies on night school plan available.
Call  Career Personnel 
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
Get Lucky
Play "Crazy Questions
50 CASH AWARDS A MONTH. ENTER NOW. HERES HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and youve done a 
Crazy Question. Its the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below; then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
(Based on the hilarious book "The Question Man
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to V3), clarity and freshness (up to >/3), and appropriateness (up 
to Vi), and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrants own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month. October through April, Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that months awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:
sexaj. jo n PJBMOH W uijof
ujjojiun uosud e jo j|eq tuouoq am 
aquosap no* op The :N0llS3n 3H1
l\ikr\
likiyaki
a*es asof ues ueAjnng.O uaa.mew 
lopd aze^iiuey 3u]a;i jsapio s.uedep 
10 auieu aqi si *eqM :NOIiS3f 3H1
flDangoes
|jnos;w JO *n upoj y **] ueuiJON 
sao3 ueiuoM 
ajaqM Suaddeq jeqM :NOIiS3f 3H1
THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:
LATINQUARTER
ipOA JO a83|ioo Alio j|>tonuitps uesns 
sjuao S2 l|60 sueuuoy 
juapue am p?p :N0IJLS3f 3H1
10% DOWN ! Ba + 2Na
uoiSujijseM JO n 'AtsujinStss 'J t|auua>j
MO||id deaip e ui pu;j o) pad 
-xa noA pinoM *ei|M :NOIiS3il0 3HI
THE ANSWER:
ojejs eiusAiAsuuad *ui|e(j Ateo
eueueq e jo uojijsodwoa 
leoiLuaqo aqj s,*eqM :NOIiS3f 3H1
1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Ii
I
I
I
I
I
Is!
THE ANSWER IS:
Get Lucky
the taste to start wttti...tiie taste to slay with
THE QUESTION IS: HOW DO YOU HIT THE BULL'S-EYE FOR GREAT SMOKING 
TASTE? Let the big red bulls-eye on the Lucky Strike pack be your target. Its a 
sign of fine-tobacco taste youll want to settle down and stay with. And the sign 
of the most popular regular-size cigarette among college students, to boot!
4. r cwProduct oj oesS J*/nvL%can (Jo^avco Ccrryxa^  Jodazev is our middle name.
