the car
VOL.. 40, NO. 1 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1946 
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY,TAR TAN
This Is Why We Came To School!Record Number Enroll 
After 82 Get Degrees
Tech deLIGHTED Over Old Student
Another student of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology has made 
good! George Mueller has become 
the hero of the earnest seekers 
after knowledge at Tech-their 
knight in shining armor. He it 
was who, after assuming virtual 
dictatorship of the city of Pitts
burgh, gave the students at his 
Alma Mater an extra weak holi
day. However, Mueller did not 
confine his benefactions to the stu
dents at our favorite school. At 
one stroke he became the friend 
of all the college students in the 
city; he gave the students in the 
colleges  and universities  the 
chance to loaf at home instead of 
in class.
The vacation has a worse side, 
too. Former members of the 52- 
20 club are somewhat provoked 
because they did not get paid for 
this week. The students may also 
have forgotten the present vaca
tion when they grumble about go
ing to school on Thanksgiving, 
Christmas and New Years.
Some people are making money 
out of the strike even if our vet
erans arent. Some bright pro
moters are talking of staging a 
new show at the Nixon or prefer
ably the Little Theater called 
Blackouts of 1946. The only 
catch is that the cast will proba
bly not be able to assemble to 
practice since transportation is so 
drastically curtailed. Some other 
unidentified person also made 
money out of the strike. Nobody 
has as yat discovered just who the
Frosh Rules 
Are Invoked
Freshman regulations are in 
force, beginning with Registration 
and continuing until October 19. 
The regulations, instituted by 
Student Council, provide for as
semblies for frosh orientation, 
rules governing their conduct, a 
traditions exam, and a dance in 
honor of the freshmen to end the 
period of regulations on the 19th.
Upperclassmen as well as fresh
men are urged to read the regu
lations carefully, in order that 
they may better enforce the rules. 
They should remember, however, 
that the true purpose of the regu(Continued in page 4.)
Cheerleading Notice
Although the cheerleading 
squad Is almost complete, it 
still lacks the services of a 
freshman boy and girl. Any
one interested should watch 
the bulletin board in Skibo 
for details concerning time 
and place of tryouts, or call 
Scotty Yurchison, head cheer
leader at SC 8951.
fraternity boys bribed to have the 
lights go out exactly at 12:25 when 
they were saying good-bye to their 
dorm dates. The sum must have 
been quite large since there were 
quite a few fraternity boys ready 
to go into action.
Some Cash In on Opportunity
Other people coining cash be
cause of the strike are the man 
who is renting pogo sticks to the 
Tech students who have to come 
to school and the men who are 
charging hitchhikers for gasoline, 
no matter what condition the 
street car system is' in. Doctor 
Jones was said to be thinking of 
setting up cots in his reception 
room and renting them. If the 
plan goes into effect, Mrs. Yon will 
serve coffee in the morning. The 
Delts have offered to shelter any 
girls who find it impossible to get 
back and forth to school (for a fee 
of course).
Much confusion resulted from 
the strike. Sororities did not 
know whether they were going to 
have parties or not and just plain 
students (and even teachers) had
no idea from day^to*day whether 
they should have gone to school 
in the morning. Enterprising in
dividuals formed the habit of get
ting up bright and early to tune in 
on their radio. The more inert 
ones merely took a chance on 
missing their morning classes. 
Very confused were the students 
who could not get over the money 
they lost when Professor Quiz 
moved to Wheeling. The Tech 
brains expected to clean him out.
Some very interesting remarks 
were heard around campus: Will 
smoking be permitted in the dark
er classrooms to throw some light 
on the subject? . . . Electrical 
engineers were seen equipping 
their slide rules with flashlight 
batteries . . . and bulbs . . . Has 
Mueller started picketing the fire
flies yet? ... Is the school fur
nishing remedies for flat feet to 
the students who have to walk? 
. . . The average Tech student, 
who has trouble enough as it is, 
is even more in the dark than 
usual . . . And, in conclusion, 
more power to you.
Technical Starts Semester 
With Hub Aaronson as Editor
Elections for the staff of the 
Carnegie Technical for the coming 
year were held Saturday morning, 
September 7 in the Carnegie Un
ion. Hubert Aaronson, member 
of Tau Delta Phi and formerly of 
the Army Air Forces, became 
editor-in-chief. Frank Maskiell, 
of Delta Upsilon, also an Army 
veteran, was selected for the post 
of Managing Editor. The new 
business manager, John Stephen
son, recently returned from the 
Navy, was scheduled to take this 
office before he was called to serv
ice in 1944. Other staff positions 
are held by Paul Gibian, Features 
Editor; Lee Rapp, Layout Editor; 
Bill Knoell, Advertising Manager; 
Norman Zuerner, Circulation Man
ager; and Gerry Abelson, Public
ity Director. The meeting was 
concluded by former Editor Joe 
Franz, who congratulated the new 
members of the staff and made a 
strong plea for the procurement 
of additional members for all de
partments of the Technical staff.
The Anniversary Issue of the 
Technical is a ninety page maga
zine containing an article from 
each of the magazines ten years 
of publication, each article cover
ing a subject from a different de
partment of science, engineering, 
or the humanities. A photographic 
article offers a pictorial descrip
tion of the research which has 
been occupying most of the 
schools faculty during the war 
years. The history of the Tech
nical is also included to give the 
student body an idea of the ad
vances which have been made in 
their magazine over the past de
cade. In addition to these special 
features, surveys are made of the 
ever popular Technowings and 
Techsperts departments, the latter 
reviewing several famous prob
lems which started controversies 
among the experts which have yet 
to be concluded.
This issue will go on sale at 
lunch time, Wednesday, October 
9, in Administration Hall and in 
front of Skibo.
Although the primary purpose 
of the October issue is to cele
brate the Technicals tenth birth
day, this edition is being used in 
campaigns to increase circulation 
and amount of advertising. In or
der to support these drives prop
erly and to publish the magazine 
which their success will demand, 
more members are needed in both 
the editorial and business depart
ments. Engineers who have a 
good English sense are needed for 
copy and proof reading. Students 
whose inclinations lie in business 
lines will be welcomed by the ad
vertising and circulation depart
ments and men with novel pub
licity ideas are especially needed. 
The staff will work every Satur
day morning beginning at 9:30 and 
anyone interested is cordially in
vited to appear at that time or as 
soon as they have completed their 
Saturday classes.
Dr. Webster Jones 
Addresses Graduates
At the Commencement exer
cises of Carnegie Tech held in the 
Sylvan Theater on September 22, 
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director 
of the College of Engineering and 
Science, addressed the graduates 
on the need for pursuit of gradu
ate study in engineering.
This was the first September 
commencement in Carnegies his
tory. Since the beginning of 
World War II and the expedit
ing of the engineering curricu
lum, diplomas have been award
ed at exercises in February, May, 
June, July, August, and Decem
berwhenever it was possible 
for another class to complete its 
requirements in the accelerated 
twelve-month school calendar. 
This class is the twelfth to have 
graduated in the past five years.
Director Charles Watkins and 
Assistant Director William R. 
Work presented the candidates 
for Bachelor of Science degrees 
from Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College and the College of Engi
neering and Science. The candi
dates for Master of Science de
grees were presented by Profes
sor J. C. Warner.
President Robert E. Doherty 
presided at the exercises and con
ferred 67 Bachelor of Science de
grees and 15 Master of Science 
degrees. Two-thirds of the class 
were veterans whose education 
was interrupted by the war and 
who returned to complete their 
education under the GI Bill of 
Rights.
Among the honor students from 
the College of Engineering were 
Robert W. Culbertson, Robert E. 
Philleo, Leslie S. Frost, Donald 
Tubello, Joseph P. Franz, and 
Rolf Weil.
Sorority Rushing 
In Full Swing
Although the strike is still in 
progress, sorority rushing will 
proceeds as planned, according to 
Sally Thompson, President of 
Pan-Hellenic Council. Since the 
Non-Rush Tea, scheduled for 
Sunday afternoon, September 29, 
was cancelled, Pan-Hellenic has 
set an arbitrary bidding quota of 
twenty girls for each sorority.
The following sororities have 
yet to give their teas: Alpha Ep
silon Phi, Sigma Kappa, Chi Ome
ga, and Delta Delta Delta. Parties 
to be held are those| of Delta 
Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, who have 
already given their teas. Sigma 
Kappa, Chi Omega, Delta Delta 
and Alpha Epsilon Phi have al
ready held their parties.
The sororities shall hand in to 
the Deans Office before 10:00 A. 
M., October 14, the list of girls 
whom they wish to bid and 
rushees shall submit their pref
erences before 10:30 A. M. on the 
same day. The lists will be match
ed in the Deans Office and the re
sults given to the organizations 
between 4:30 and 5:00 P. M. 
Rushees will receive their bids on 
October 15 at 10:00 A. M. and 
must turn in their acceptances 
by 4:30 P. M. Open rushing will 
begin again at that time.
Y-Cabinet Notice 
Open House
The Y-Cabinet will hold a 
Freshman Open House on 
Thursday, October 10th, from 
4:30 to 6 P. M. at the Student 
Union. Refreshments will be 
served.
3314 Students Enroll 
For Fall Semester
Enrollment at Carnegie Tech 
has reached a new peak with the 
registration of 3314. Over 200 
more engineering students than 
expected have now registered 
making a total of 2063 of which 
205 are graduate students. The 
College of Fine Arts shows an en
rollment of 672, including 6 grad
uate students; Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College has 547 with 26 
graduate students; and the Li
brary School has 32. Almost 65% 
of the total enrollment or 2000, 
is composed of veterans.
The entering freshman class 
contains 205 in engineering, 222 
in Fine Arts, and 154 in Maggie 
Murph, making a total of 581.
As was expected the housing 
situation is rather cramped. Over
flowing dormitories and fraternity 
houses have over 1000 students 
living in them and close to 500 
more are rooming in private 
homes.
Nearly the average number of 
students are commuting this year 
with approximately 1800 enjoy
ing the transportation facilities 
of the Pittsburgh area.
Sectioning Notice
The assignment of students 
to course sections at regis
tration is temporary. Perma
nent section assignments for 
each course taught in sections 
will be worked out under the 
direction of the Head of the 
Department by which the 
course is offered so as to pro
vide sections of suitable size. 
These assignments will be 
posted at an early date.
No permanent section as
signment may be changed ex
cept with the written approv
al of the Department Head 
in charge of the course, and 
in the case of courses in the 
Social Relations Program, 
with the additional endorse
ment of the Provost. Changes 
will be made only on the 
basis of conflicts with regu
lar courses or to avoid ex
treme hardship.
No credit will be given for 
class attendance or work done 
except in the section to which 
the student has been officially 
assigned.
Freshman in MMCC 
Will Elect Officers
On Tuesday, October 22, the 
incoming Margaret Morrison 
freshmen will elect both their 
class officers and a MMCC Senate 
representative. Any member of 
the entering class is eligible to 
hold office.
To run for president, secretary, 
or treasurer a freshman must turn 
in a petition signed by herself and 
at least fifteen other members of 
her class to the Margaret Morri
son office by Friday, October 18. 
For Senate representative the pro
cedure is the same but twentyfive signatures are needed. No 
vice president is elected as the 
runner-up in the presidential 
election takes that office.
Freshman may sign petitions 
for all of the offices but duplica
tion of signatures for the same 
position on different petitions 
makes that name void on both. 
Since this will make the petitions 
themselves void if only the mini
mum number of names is pre
sented, candidates should be care
ful that their signatures have not 
been used on other lists. The pa
pers should be headed by the 
candidates name and prospective 
office and should be written in 
ink.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1946
 Replaceable filter in new 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders, 
filters the smoke.
 Cuts down nicotine.
 Cuts down irritating tars.
 In zephyrweight aluminum.
 Special styles for men and women.
 $2 with 10 filters, handy pouch 
and gift box.
S. M. FRANK A CO., INC., NEW YORK 22
the carneg^ARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
TELEPHONE: SChenley 4557 
After office hours: Editor, JA. 3310; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Entered as second class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 8, 1879. Subscription price $1.10 a year.
Editors..........Boo Girts, Mary J. Horridge Circulation Manager .................Sam MosesBusiness Manager .Bill Meyers Headline Editor ....Camille McCulloughManaging Editor ..................Ben Schwartz Personnel Manager .................Jean BolteyNews Editor .Audrey Wilkins Copy Editors. . .Hub Aaronson, Glen Neil-Sports Editor .......................Dick Heckman son, Dick Eschenbach
Photographers: Danny Franks (head photographer). Bill Weyandt.Columnists: Bob Coleman, B. J. Kreimer, Casey Stine.Sports Staff: Tony Arrott, Amie Christenson, Stan Kohn.Cartoonists: Lisbeth Kephart, A1 Mitchell, Bennard Perlman, Herb Saiger.Reporters: Tony Arrott, Doris Becker, Marie Delli Gatti, Lou Emmel, Viera Kulamer, Rosemarie Lang, Helen Miller, Georgette Paljug, Shirley Seiner.nb Reporters: John Fockler, Lizbeth Kephart, Celeste Silberstein, Gerry SunseriBarbara Vilsmeier, Sema Moskovitz.
.Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City.
Editors Armchair
On page four of this issue the freshmen regulations are 
listed. To many these rules may seem foolish. Upperclassmen 
as well as freshmen may tend to ignore them.
However these regulations have an important purpose in 
the college system. In the past year they have been revised and 
somewhat mitigated to eliminate much that was trivial and per
haps seemingly childish so that the rules a:t present are basic
ally ones to orient freshmen and instill in them an active school 
.and class spirit.
Let us take some of these rules and analyze them. Rule 
one applies to the wearing of name plates. Anyone who has 
experienced the dilemma of meeting hordes of strange people 
knows the confusion of trying to separate nameless individuals 
from that solid mass of people who somehow all look alike. 
Need more be said?
Freshman are required to greet all upperclassmen should 
not apply only to freshman nor for the first month of school 
only. A friendly hello to a fellow student is a courtesy good 
at any time.
Traditions are the heritage of every college. To be familiar 
with 'this heritage is to become a living part of your school. Thus 
we have a traditions exam to ascertain your knowledge of the 
background facts.
The Senior Fence and Senior Walk are traditions, too, and 
demand your respect as such.
We could go on and discuss each and every rule but having 
given you a beginning, we shall let you yourselves discover 
the merits in the rest.
Freshmen regulations are for your benefit and for the bene
fit of the college. It is every freshmans responsibility to respect 
and obey them; and it is every upperclassmans duty to see 
that the regulations are enforced. B. L. G.
* * * *
Does the registrar's office have your correct address?
5872 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill
Phone HAzel 0333
MENS WEAR Open Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday Evenings
dren are also included in the sea
sons activities.
Dr. Reiner, who is entering his 
ninth year as Musical Director, is 
planning a series of interesting 
and exciting programs, which will 
combine the established master
pieces of the symphonic repertoire 
with the stimulating works of 
contemporary composers, Ameri
can and European.
The world-renowned soloists 
who will appear with the Orches
tra on the regular Friday-Sunday 
series include Heifetz, considered 
today as the greatest of all violin
ists; Artur Rubinstein, one of the 
foremost pianists of our time and 
one of the most dynamic person
alities on the concert stage; Ezio 
Pinza, the leading baritone of the 
Metropolitan Opera who is mak
ing his first appearance with the 
Orchestra; Robert Casadesus, the 
top-ranking French pianist who 
establishes a record in consecutive 
appearances when he returns next 
season for his sixth engagement 
with the Orchestra; Gregor Piatigorsky, who is recognized as the 
greatest cellist in the world; Ru
dolf Serkin whose masterful per
formances have made him a Pitts
burgh favorite; Joseph Szigeti, the 
peerless artist who is known as 
the violinists violinist; and 
Claudio Arrau, the great Chilean 
pianist, who will be the first solo
ist of the year in the second pair 
of concerts on October 25 and 27.
Season subscriptions for the 20 
Friday evening and 20 Sunday 
afternoon concerts are available 
at the Pittsburgh Symphony Head
quarters, 1305 Farmers Bank 
Building.
SURE fS WODAYS!
Oppen TusdaTy ms, u-hrSdtusS EvdaT TusdaT -hi ghiSdmS-d
Tartan Notice
At 5 P. M. Thursday, October 
10th, there will be a meeting of 
all students interested in joining 
the staff of the Carnegie TARTAN, 
CITs weekly newspaper. The 
TARTAN needs reporters, writers, 
photographers, advertising men, 
cartoonists, layout men, rewriters, 
proofreaders, copy readers, etc. All 
freshmen and other new students 
are invited to take advantage of 
this opportunity. This meeting 
will be held in the TARTAN office 
on the 3rd floor of the Carnegie 
Union.
On Friday, October 11th at 5 
P. M., there will be a general 
meeting of ALL. staff members.
Reiner Leads Symphony 
During Anniversary Year
Activities Notice
Information regarding fra
ternities, honoraries, and all 
other campus organizations to 
be listed in the C Book 
(Student Directory) should 
be brought to the Office of the 
Assistant Dean of Men, Room 
152, Industries Hall, by a re
sponsible member of the or
ganization as soon as possible, 
but no later than one week 
after classes start.
The information requested 
is as follows:
(1) Officers.
(2) Members listed alpha
betically, last name first.
(3) Pledges listed alphabet
ically, last name first.
In the case of fraternities, 
include the address and tele
phone number of the chapter.
This information should be 
accurate and legible, type
written if possible, and should 
be submitted in duplicate.
Carnegie Inn, Grill 
Opened For Meals
The Grill or Sandwich Bar, 
located in the basement of the 
Carnegie Inn, will be open from 
11 A. M. to 10:30 P. M. Monday 
through Saturday. Although they 
will serve no cooked meals, 
sandwiches, sundaes, milkshakes, 
etc., will be available at all times. 
Also located here are a coke and 
a cigarette machine. Dancing and 
cardplaying will constitute 
amusement for the students. In 
complete charge of the Grill will 
be Mrs. Barr.
On Monday and continuing 
throughout the year from 11 A. M. 
to 1:45 P. M., Carnegie Inn will 
open for the entire student body. 
Only a cooked meal will be serv
ed, cafeteria style.
Because of the shortage of help, 
patrons are requested to carry 
their own trays.
THE CHURCH OF
Before you grab your old Mustang or Hellcat and start getting your favorite Arrow shirts the 
EASY way, try your favorite Arrow dealer have just the one you want next time.
The Twentieth Anniversary sea
son of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra promises to be the most 
brilliant year in the Orchestras 
history. With Dr. Fritz Reiner as 
Musical Director and Vladimir 
Bakaleinikoff as Associate Con
ductor, the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra, with its personnel in( Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SUNDAY SERVICES
Holy Communion-8 A.M.; Morning Prayer-11 A.M.
Tech CANTERBURY CLUB meets Sunday, October 
20th at 6 P. M. at the Rectory back of the Church. All students welcome. REV. HUGH S. CLARK, Rector.
DR. REINER
creased to ninety musicians, will 
give 20 Friday evening and 20 
Sunday afternoon concerts at Syria 
Mosque. The opening pair of con
certs is scheduled for October 18 
and 20. Seven Tuesday evening 
concerts featuring lighter pro
grams and three concerts for chil---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
j rOTL
?ALMA,
MATER.
OFFICIAL WITH 
AMERICAS TOP 
COACHES AND 
TEAMS/
(COMETO ) 
AP8 
YA BEAUTIULTPARUNef'
Tech Gridders Open Season Saturday
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Face Strong Oberlin Eleven; 
Tartans to Rely on Deception
This Saturday marks the return of Carnegie Tech to grid
iron warfare. Under the guidance of Coach Bill Donohoe and his 
able assistants, the team is shaping into a fast, deceptive jug
gernaut. For the first time in history, the Skibos will abandon 
the Sutherland-styled power football for the modern rage of the 
gridironthe elusive T\ The schedule calls for tussles with 
the so-called B teams, which, for the most part, are loaded 
from end to end with returned veterans who found it impossible to enter Big-Time schools. Thus the Tartans will be in for many a tough Saturday.
The schedule finds Oberlin here Saturday, followed by a 
night game with Geneva on October 25 fa correction for theprinted schedules). W. and J. of
fers the opposition for Homecom
ing on November 2. Our old rival 
engineers, Case, visit on Nov. 9 
followed by Buffalo the week fol
lowing. The season comes to an 
end with Grove City on Nov. 23. 
Oberlin Unbeaten Last Year 
This will be the first meeting 
between Tech and Oberlin. Noth
ing much is known about the 
Yeomen since Saturday is also 
their opening game, but from past 
indications, a lulu of a game is 
in the offing. Last year, the Ohio
ans, loaded with Navy and Ma
rine trainees, were on the top of 
the heap of the nations powers 
ending the season with an im
pressive record of eight victories 
and no losses. Many of these 
service trainees have returned to 
the Yeomen campus and so 
draw your own conclusion.
Tech Light, Deceptive
The Tartans will field a compar
atively light team, averaging 178 
pounds. But what they lack in 
weight will easily be made up in 
spirit, deception, and speed. The 
roster includes the following as
pirants: Ends: John Miller, letterman transfer from Grove City; 
Dick DeMuessy, 42 numeral man; 
J. C. Williamson, versatile punter 
and pass catcher from Dormont; 
George Matonis, two year letterman absent since 1941. Tackles: 
Norm Keats, freshman dramat 
transfer from CCNY; Gerry My
ers, high school All-State from
Buffalo; Fronko, rugged married 
man from Monaca; and Carl Jaffurs, promising freshman from 
Wilkinsburg. Guards: Ben Baklars, 2-year letterman back from 
the Navy, probably the outstand
ing lineman; John Maxton, team 
sparkplug from Wilkinsburg; Hank 
Schafer, former prisoner of war, 
prepped at Linsly Military Acade
my; Bob Shapiro, letterman from 
43. Centers: John Sant, sopho
more from Westinghouse High; C. B. Groomes, 42 numeral man. 
Quarterbacks: Larry Maley, 155- 
pound passing wizard from Cen
tral Catholic; Bill Heidenreich, 
lightest man on the team at 150 
pounds; Joe Wilson, 43 numeral 
man shifted from the fullback 
slot. Halfbacks: Sam Highberger, 
sophomore P&D breakaway run
ner; Bill Donohue, 150-pound scatback from Aspinwall; Steve Korfonta, 43 numeral; Pappy Poppafava, hard driving chem. engi
neer from Sewickley; Pinky Stew
art, 43 letterman from Allderdice; 
Jim Dinwiddle, speedy ballhawk 
from Lynchburg, Va. Fullbacks: 
Russ Skinner, big piledriving full
back from Oakmont, currently on 
the injured list; Li? Abner Wahrenburg, 43 letterman back at his 
old plunging post; Chuck Irvine, 
frosh aspirant from Blairsville.
For three years everyone has 
been waiting for a football team. 
Now that we have the team 
lets go Tech!
IN THE 1933 OREGONOREGON STATE 
GAME, STATE BLOCKED 
A POINTAFTER* 
TOUCHDOWN WCK. $Y 
HOISTING THEIR'6'6" 
CENTER, INTO 
THE AIR, M
sirs THB me  wsmrs COri.WOAAJMLMMAMOUNC. UUiSJUZOtri
Booters Open 
Season Friday
Once again soccer coach Pat
OConnor is faced with the task
of producing a minor miracle. He 
did it last year when, starting 
from scratch, he put a team on 
the field after only nine days of 
practiceand a winning team at 
that.
Comes 1946, a power strike and 
the general confusion which goes 
with the beginning of the semes
ter, and this time the mentor has 
only seven days to get something 
on the field which resembles a 
soccer team. However, the situa
tion isnt as dismal as it might 
seem for there are six starters 
back from last years outfit. In 
addition several other former 
luminaries have returned from 
the wars to give added strength 
to this years team.
The offense will be built 
around Cloyd Mellott, captainelect and mainstay of the highpowered 1945 offense. Mellott, 
who played with Franklin and 
Marshall before entering the ser
vice, is a solid, hard-driving citi
zen and will command the Tech 
aggregation from his position at 
inside-right. Also back from last 
years line is Mac McMullan 
who is counted on to turn in his 
usual steady game at outsideright. The rest of the forward po
sitions are wide open with com
petition running high.
Along the halfback line, there 
are two hold-overs from last year. 
At center-half will be big-footed 
Bob Williams who provided most 
of the laughs and thrills of last 
years games. He will be flanked 
on one side by Ken King, also a 
veteran of last seasons campaign. 
The third halfback slot is still a 
toss-up. Back at full-back is the 
redoubtable Ralph Kindblom, 
who gave the opposition a rough 
time of things in 1945. The other 
fullback slot is still open. Sleepy 
Heckman will again snooze in 
front of the goal.
The opening game is slated for 
this Friday when the boys jour
ney to Slippery Rock to take on 
the Greasy Stonites. The rest of 
the schedule:
Oct. 26 Slippery Rock ............. Home
Oct. 29 Allegheny ......................... Home
Nov. 1 Thiel .................................. Home
Nov. 9 Westminster ..................... Home
Nov. 15 Oberlin .............................. Away
Nov. 22
Beamer To Head 
Tech Harriers
For the first season in three 
years, Halfertys Harriers have 
taken to the cinder paths of 
Schenley Park. Although the first 
meet is three weeks away, the 
thin-clads have been jogging the 
four and a half mile grind every 
afternoon.
Sparked by such old stalwarts 
as past captain Paul Rotzler, Dav
ies, Benya, and Beamer, the 
twenty candidates are preparing 
for a rigorous schedule. Three 
meets have been booked defin
itely, and others are still tenta
tive. According to Coach Halferty, the available meets are un
limited, the determining factor 
being the team itself.
The season is still unpredicta
ble, but with some of the top 
trackmen in Western Pennsylva
nia available, the prospects are 
not too dark. Davies, fleet Tech 
middle distance man, is already 
showing good form as a promising 
cross-country man; while Gene 
Cockrell, freshman harrier, is de
veloping into a Tartan threat. Bill 
Beamer, captain, has returned for 
his third season of competition 
after an absChce of three years. 
Paul Rotzler will also be availa
ble for first competition since 42. 
With these men as a nucleus and 
a team of enthusiastic harriers, 
the squad should regain its pre
war heights quickly.
Veteran Tech distance man 
Pete Saramtopoulos, still a lead
ing figure in Western Pennsyl
vania track circles, is assisting in 
conditioning the team. Although 
the initial call has been made for 
cross-country men, all interested 
men may still report for practice.
Intramurals
With the advent of intramural 
competition following the opening 
of school, organization of the 
Tech Intramural Board is being 
developed under the direction of 
Coach Allen E. Risedorph. The 
governing body will consist of 13 
men, six members from the fra
ternities, who are Logan Dick
erson (SAE and past president of 
the intramural board), Arnie 
Christenson ( Delt), Bill Beamer 
(Kappa Sig), Don Armour 
(PiKA), Skelton (Sigma Nu), 
with the sixth fraternity man yet 
to be selected. Three dorm men 
in addition to Bob Robertson, 
John Martin, Dick Heckman, and 
one man to be elected from the 
Managers Club next week will 
bring the club to its full comple
ment of thirteen men. 
MEETINGS SET
The first meeting of the Intra
mural Board will be held Wed
nesday, October 9, at 4:30 P. M. 
in Coach Risedorphs office in the 
gymnasium. The Managers Club 
will also hold a meeting on 
Thursday at 4:30 P. M. in Coach 
Risedorphs office.
TOUCH FOOTBALL OPENS
The first business of the Intra
mural Board is touch football 
competition. Entries from all or
ganizations are due in the board 
office not later than Friday, Octo
ber 11 at 5:00 P. M. Touch foot
ball competition will probably be
gin Tuesday, October 15. Blanks 
to list team members may be ob
tained in the office in the gym. 
Officials for the games are badly 
needed. All those wishing to 
referee, to be timekeepers, etc., 
are requested to contact any 
member of the Intramural Board 
or Coach Risedorph.
Football Notice
l.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
FORBES FIELD will be the site of our football games 
this year.
Starting time of home games will be 2:00 P. M. Eastern 
Standard Time.
First home game will be October 12, when Oberlin Col
lege meets Carnegie Tech.
Admissions to home games will be by registration card only. 
Students entrance to Forbes Field will be at gate in 
Schenley Park under right field stands.
Seating arrangements for students will be on the first 
floorSections 5-6-7.
Kiltie Band will be seated directly in front of students 
cheering section.
Kiltie Band will be admitted through big gate in right field 
and will march directly onto the field and take their seats 
on a band stand erected for their use.
If further information is desired, please call at Athletic 
Office, Room 102 in the Mens Gymnasium.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1946
Freshman Regulations
(Continued from page 1.) 
lations is not to punish the frosh, 
but to make them a part of the 
student body of C. I. T.
A specific list of the rules fol
lows.
MEN
1Every freshman will wear a name plate on his person where it can be plainly seen. This name plate shall be worn on campus throughout the entire period that regulations are in effect. Freshmen will receive the name plate when they register.2Freshmen are required to greet all upperclassmen.3Freshmen will not sit on the Senior 
Fence.4Freshmen will not use the Senior Walk. (The walk which extends from Machinery Hall up along Engineering Hall.)5All freshmen must pass a traditionsexam which will be given on or about October 18, 1946. A gradeof 70% is considered passing on this exam. Failure to pass this exam will automatically bar the freshman from participation in extra-curricular activities. Those who fail this exam may take a re-exam about a month later.6Freshmen are required to attend all freshmen assemblies. There will be two such assemblies. Attendance will be taken.7These regulations will begin on Registration Day and last until October 19, 1946. On the evening of this date a dance will be given in honor of the freshmen. Freshmen
Churches Relieve 
Housing Shortage
The housing shortage on the 
campus of Carnegie Tech has been 
greatly alleviated by the timely 
aid given us by the local churches. 
The Church of the Redeemer, 
Reverend Hugh Clark, Rector, 
provided living quarters for 100 
students during the registration 
period. Also the services and aid 
of the congregations of Reverend 
Scaithe of the Calvary Episcopal, 
Dr. Foster of the Third Presbyter
ian, and Reverend McLean of the 
East Liberty Presbyterian were 
indispensable in keeping students 
from sleeping on park benches. A 
loan of 200 beds, mattresses and 
blankets to the churches was very 
generously agreed to by the 
American Red Cross.
Mr. Chapman of the downtown 
Y.M.C.A., was very instrumental 
in housing students.
The advertising campaign car
ried on by Carnegie Tech, The 
University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne, and The Pennsylvania 
College for Women plus the suc
cessful appeal from the churches 
added up to 150 accommodations 
for students.
It is to these people and to these 
organizations that the students of 
Carnegie wish to extend a heart
felt vote of thanks.
Pgh. Womens Clan 
Will Entertain Seniors
The Pittsburgh Womens Clan 
will entertain the Seijior girls at 
their meeting on Thursday, Octo
ber 10, at 8 p. m. in Carnegie 
Union. The girls are cordially in
vited to attend.
The speaker will be Cy Hungerford, outstanding cartoonist. 
The party promises to be very 
entertaining and the members 
e an opportunity to meet 
ars alumnae.
C. D. Harnack and Mrs. 
Tee, former presidents of 
the Clan, will pour.
The aides will be Mrs. Charles 
Young, program chairman, and 
Mrs. Cora Pitcairn, member of the 
Board.
Kilties Need Talent
One of Carnegie Techs most 
colorful and well known institu
tions, the fast stepping Kiltie 
Band, is being reactivated, and 
is rehearsing daily in Thistle 
Hall or, after 4:30 P. M., on the 
Cut or in the Bowl. Those who 
have any talents along these lines 
and who wish to join this organ
ization should contact Manager 
Scotty Yurchison, or Student 
Director Jay Maratta at Schenley 
8951.
Scottie Notice
The October issue of the 
Scottie failed to appear at 
registration because its covers 
were held up by the New York 
trucking strike. However, it 
will be placed on sale as soon 
as the covers are received 
and the magazine is bound.
and their guests will be admitted free of charge. The dance will be an all-school affair.8If a freshman is caught violating any of these regulations by an upperclassman, the upperclassman will write the name of the offender and
chased at the Bookstore for a small sum.
2All frosh women are required to use the steps to the left of the center door in * M.M.C.C. Stairs to the right are for the exclusive use of the upperclassmen.
the offense, and his own name on a slip of paper, and drop it in a receptacle, one of which will be placed in each of the colleges. Three offenses will be considered sufficient to postpone the date of the offenders traditions exam.
WOMENWomen students will be required to abide by all the previous regulations plus the following additions:1The frosh women will be required to wear caps in addition to the name tags. These caps can be pur
BASEBALL'S 
OUTSTANDING HITTER
TED WILLIAMS
THE BOSTON RED SOX
IN OR OUT
OF THE BALL PARKS
THEY SATISFY 
MILLIONS
