The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 6, October 12, 1982.
Computing
Police roundup: student assaulted near Shirley
By NANCY RITCHEY
Tartan Staffwriier
According to this weeks campus police 
report, an 18 year old Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity student was assaulted and robbed at 
gunpoint on Sept. 29 in front of Shirley 
Apartments.
At 11:15 p.m. that evening the student had 
parked her Buick Riviera in front of 133 
North Dithridge. She was removing her 
purse and suitcase when she was 
approached by a black male, 5'9", with a 
mustache. When he attempted to force her 
into the car, she called for help, telling him 
to take the car but leave her alone. Pointing 
a silver revolver at the victims stomach, 
according to polic reports the man said, 
Okay give me the keys, but shut up or Ill 
blow you away. He escaped in the car. A 
witness in his own car put up an unsuccess
ful chase. Upon police arrival, the student 
refused medical attention.
That same evening the same suspect is 
reported to have robbed Stokans Tavern 
while driving the stolen car. The suspect has 
not yet been apprehended and Director
233 students pledge fraternities
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Friday night the sounds erf bells, can
nons, and chanting could be heard across 
the CMU campus. World War IIP Not 
quite. It was just Pledge Night 1982 and 
the twelve fraternities on campus were wel
coming their 233 pledges each in their own 
style.
In this issue
Editorial
Faculty Development Center........page 2
News
Cyert revises alcohol policy............ page 6
Clift discusses White House..........page 7
Features
1 OPS printing discussed...............page 13
U.S. vs. Japan: on robots...............page 13
Entertainment
Lenny review..............................page 19
'"tudio Theatre discovered...............page 19
Sports
Gridders win close one...................page 23
iris field hockey win tide.......... page 23
P^cial Homecoming supplement 
*de
After a twenty-four hour hands-off 
period from Thursday at 5:00 p.m. to Friday 
4:30 p.m., the fraternity square went wild 
with pledge night parties. Congrats to all 
the pledges:
ALPHA TAU OMEGA: (20) Chris 
Grondwalski, Mike Vargha, Rich Miller, 
Andy James, Charlie Feigle, Frank Lago, 
Rick Hinston, Mike Albaugh, John Herold, 
Dale Kording, Mike Paterchak, Jeff Frumkin, Scott Nesbit, Dan Burgundy, George 
Haley, Andy Binder, Darral Morton, Mark 
St. George, Jeff Combine, and Carl Stith.
BETA THETA PI: (32) Dan Gercak, Jim 
Ryan, Chris Camicella, Tom Ottenstein, 
Charles Fineman, Stephen Orlando, Rich 
Fabian, Dave Simmons, Mike Gaverick, 
Mike Maloney, Paul Scarmazzi, Mike
Drobac, Rob Batts, Robert Nagy, Rob 
Kukowski, Dean Madar, Nick Liston, Joe 
Orlowski, Tim Trapuzzano, Rich Theg, 
Don Colangelo, Christopher OMara, Ross 
Jicomelli, Rob Cortazzo, Dave Richards, 
Chuck Bailey, Brad Sherwin, Mark Lankitus, Tom Gross, Joe Sadecky, Vic Boland, 
and Joe Garecht.
DELTA TAU DELTA: (12) David Goldenberg, John Fleigner, Mark Santz, James 
Isherwood, Jeff Bowman, Jeffrey Beffler, 
Steven Scaroff, Josh Kahan, John Morris, 
William Caudle, Mike Lehrman, and Mark 
Nicolussi.
DELTA UPSILON: (21) Brandan 
Copans, Douglas Adler, Robert Whitmer, 
Glen Murray, Greg Haas, Joe Guarino, Rob 
continued on page 12
Physical Plant gets house
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The former Pitt fraternity house, located 
on Forbes Avenue, is being adapted for occu
pancy by physical plant. The design and 
construction departments of physical plant 
have moved into the second and third floors, 
but the first floor is still vacant and no defi
nite plans have been made for its use.
A committee for the proposed faculty 
lounge has declined to use the house, citing 
insufficient space as one reason.
The physical plant departments were rel
ocated in order to free space in Porter Hall 
for four classrooms. A new electrical system 
has been installed in the house and the 
plumbing and heating have been upgraded.
Activities requiring a large amount of stu
dent traffic will probably not be moved into 
the house. Possible candidates for relocation 
are nonacademic functions currently in aca
demic buildings, such as Public Relations 
now in Baker Hall and Administrative Sys
tems in Wan Hall.
Robert Fadzen of campus police urges cau
tion to students living in oudying areas. If 
they notice any suspicious persons notify us 
immediately so we can come down and 
check the people out, he said. The CMU 
police are currendy making regular patrols 
of the oudying housing complexes.
On Sept. 2 at 6:30 p.m., CMU police were 
notified about the presence of unknown per
sons on the skylights at Wean Hall, Officer 
Lang encountered three males, Kevin 
Parker, Jerome Clark and Chris White, all 
14, in the fifth floor corridor. When asked to 
leave, they loitered outside, returning to the 
building soon after. At this time, they were 
found with two calculators in a plastic bag, 
one Hewlett Packard (beige) and the other 
black. The boys attested to the campus 
police officer that this was their property 
and fled the scene. They were apprehended 
near 4800 Forbes Avenue at which time they 
no longer had the calculators in their posses
sion. They will be hard in juvenile court 
where campus police will attempt to get 
restitution for the calculators.
continued on page 6
forum set
photo by John Stiiwell
Tartan's #1 
The young are still optimistic and this years homecoming had the whole campus looking up*
Rush ends
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Student Affairs will sponsor a "speak 
out forum called The Personal Computer 
and You at CMU on November 2. Provost 
Richard Van Horn and Vice Provost Doug 
Van Houwelling will address the forum.
Many students are asking whats going 
on with the future of computing and what it
all means, said Brad Walter, acting dean of 
Student Affairs. What can they do with 
personal computers, where will they put 
them, and how will they be funded? 
Walter feels that students suffer from a 
lack of information rather than false infor
mation. There are varied reactions to the 
computing plans on campus. This is their 
chance to speak out, he said.
I can assure you that no final decisions 
have been made concerning purchasing this 
equipment in bulk, Walter said. The deri
sion, however, "is not in the too distant 
future, so it is important for students to 
voice their opinions now, he added.
Lois Cox, associate dean of Student 
Affairs, added, "Rather than having some
thing imposed on them, they should speak 
out now.
This development will have the most 
dramatic effect, on education in decades, 
Walter said. We are a pioneer in the coun
try. This is virgin territory .
phoco by Gene Vanish A fireworks display kicked off tlx home
coming activities Friday.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.Cyert recognizes faculty teaching deficiencies
Contrary to what you CMU students may 
believe, there is a light at the end of the 
tunnel, gold at the end of the rainbow, a 
Faculty Development Center at the end of 
the lecture.
President Cyert, in his State of the 
Uni verity address last Saturday, announced 
the coming of a new center  The Faculty 
Development Center. It is currently being 
organized to take people who are not good 
teachers and develop their methods.
What an intelligent idea!
The attitude of most students on this 
campus toward bad teaching is usually 
rather resigned. The teacher is there, hes 
incompetent, and Im required to take his 
course. Most of us have been in such a 
position at least once in our four years here 
at CMU.
Just like every other college, we have
teaching problems; however, unlike a lot of 
other colleges, our faculty is strongly 
oriented toward research. How many grants 
can he/she bring to CMU, how many 
contracts for research?  these questions 
become important in the selection and 
promotion of faculty.
As a result, students have been told by 
some faculty members, my research is first, 
youre second, or Im working on a novel, 
so we wont have class on Monday.
While these examples do not happen 
often, they do indeed happen, and when 
they do, each student should realize that he 
has a right to complain to the authorities in 
Warner Hall. The administration will 
listen to you. They have listened in the past. 
They are listening now. The Faculty 
Development renter is an example of an 
administrations good working ear on the 
student body.
You are not alone when instruction is
bad, and you are not helpless. But you must 
speak up.
Every department head knows who the 
bad teachers are, said Cyert to an interested 
alumnus at the aforesaid homecoming 
address, and we know where the bad 
departments are.
Well we students know where the bad 
teachers are too, and we have to put up with 
them as well as pay for them. Until now, we 
never knew Warner Hall cared.
We hope the faculty responds well to the 
Development Center. And if they dont? 
Cyert answered that question too, we have 
not hesitated to say to a teacher, your 
teaching is terrible, and we are not raising 
your salary. 
We are not overjoyed to know that such 
methods of tyranny must be inflicted on 
some instructors to make them prepare for 
their classes, but if it comes down to them or 
us . . .
Nate lists his privileges as student government head
By Nate Solano not d tL office Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00 pm importance took place.
I just received a copy of the revised Dear Concerned Student, and Thursday from 7:00 to 9:00 pm. I am -yS y
v#>rdrm of rh*> alrnhnl in mvMh. Here is a list of mv fringe henefits: always open to any concern. I regret that /[
the column is somewhat short this week, 
however, nothing of any great political
By Nate Solano
I just received a copy of the revised 
version of the alcohol policy. In my esti
mation it is very livable. Although it still 
doesnt allow the serving of alcohol on 
the viewable campus, it basi
cally allows freedom behind 
closed doors. If my hunch 
stands correct, it will allow the 
traditional happy hours to continue. I am still
not clear if traditional dorm-wide parties such as 
Doherty, Roselawn, and Schlag will 
still be tolerated; however, we continue to 
push in this direction.
Dear Nate,
I am a concerned student who wants to 
know what fringe benefits the Student 
Government President receives. I know 
you must get something or you would
not do it.
Dear Concerned Student,
Here is a list of my fringe benefits:
1.) I get to call Dr. Cyert Dad.
2.) I get to meet all the "concerned 
students.
3.) I get my name on a piece of cardboard.
4.) I get a lot of junk mail.,
5.) Sometimes students bring me beer.
6.) I got to drive the Student Senate 
Homecoming float.
I was rather pleased with office hours 
this week. Several persons came, some 
with concerns and others with beer. 
Again this week I will be in the Senate
Nate Solano is a junior in AMS and is presi
dent of the student government.
Eco-week criticism not founded
By Wayne L Cutler
Dear Mr. Blair,
Are you related to Linda Blair? I figured 
so as she was encompassed by the devil and 
so are you. My suggestion is you need an 
exorcism, and if you bend over, Ill give it to 
you!
Rhetoric is an art which is 
what you lack, maybe you call 
your writings Mathematics? 
Two and two is three, nice job!
I understand pessimism is in, and youre 
selling it. Its one thing to be sarcastic and 
derogatory, however, it takes a mature and 
intelligent person to be constructive and 
offer other viable suggestions, something 
which your "CMU Gripes article failed to* 
do. If you dont appreciate Economics arti
cles, then specify I Doug Blair do not like 
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAcordirngt or hswg e
Reagan's pitch: blame the Democrats
By Stuart Shapiro
With the November election less than a 
month away, the rhetoric is flying thick and 
fast. Interestingly, some of the most impas
sioned appeals are coming from a noncon_ batant. Where theres smoke 
theres fire. So when theres nonsense in the air, keep an eye out 
^ for the Great Communicator.
Reagan is at center stage despite the fact 
that he is not running for office this time. 
But youd never guess that if you happened 
to suffer through his strident campaign ora
tory. In fact, if you watched the nightly news 
with any frequency during the 1980 cam
paign, its impossible to suppress a feeling
of deja vu. What were watching now is an 
encore presentation of Reagans 1980 cam
paign. Rerun season isnt over yet.
White House spokesmen (I think theyre 
mass produced in a secret factory some
where) claim that White House tenants have 
no qualms about making this election a 
referendum on Reagonomics  in effect, an 
unofficial presidential unelection.
The Democrats think thats just fine and 
dandy. Theyre all geared up to barbecue 
Reagonomics over an open fire. Not to men
tion anything else they can sink their teeth 
into. The problem is that Reagan seems to 
consider the election a referendum not on 
Reagonomics, but on Jimmy Carter.
Student rivalry polarizes
By Paul Spillune
Im not sure if Ive ever seen a school that 
"doesnt have its act together socially to the 
degree present at CMU. Ive been here less 
than half of a semester, but sometimes the 
^ whole social scene here bugs me. 
p This place often seems to be 
y made up totally of rival, splinter 
groups, bickering and some
times openly battling with each other. One 
main cause of this is the total lack of a 
unifying, central force or organization. Last 
week I claimed the need for a Student 
Union. This week I will try to point out 
some of the more obvious reasons for this 
need.
In a school with this type of academic
pressure, there is bound to be some rivalry 
between group. The case here, though, is 
one of substantial, often counterproductive 
(to appeal to the many efficiency-minded 
readers among us), polarization on many 
academic and social levels. The battles are 
being fought in the academic buildings, in 
school publications, in dorms, etc.
Among the more traditional battles is the 
fierce rivalry between the fruits and the 
veggies, with H&SS students bearing the 
brunt of jokes and insults from both ignor
ant group. There are debates between 
Morewood residents and those of us fortu
nate enough to live on the Hill. There is 
even rivalry among the various Hill dorms.
cordirngt or hswg k
Maybe he figures what worked once will 
work twice. Still, making the former Presi
dent the primary issue in a midterm election 
is a novel strategy to say the least. Carter 
probably isnt too thrilled about it. Its no 
fun being the target when youre not even 
the incumbent.
The Reagan strategy isnt too hard to 
understand. The only alternative is to call 
attention to his record. A lot of GOP candi
dates want to put some distance between 
themselves and that record. And for good 
reason. Unemployment is at a post-WW II 
high; bankruptcies are continuing at a brisk 
pace; the Pentagon is choking on money, 
the social safety net is unraveling just 
when its needed most; student loan pro
grams are on the verge of being axed; federal 
commitment to environmental protection is 
becoming a joke; and the budget is drown
ing in red ink.
Thats not even considering foreign pol
icy. I must admit that inflation has been 
brought under control, but as economist 
Lester Thurow pointed out, weve always 
known that a severe recession would slow 
down inflation.
Supply side economics has supplied 
damn little worth buying. Reagan can man
gle statistics and blast Jimmy Carter to his 
hearts content. I believe in giving credit 
where credit is due. Mr. President, this reces
sion is all yours.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Thelartm
Editor-in-Chief.................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor............................Vince Guinto
Editorial Assistant..........................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager...........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor...................................Monica Cellio
Features Editor................................ Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor....................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor........................John StilwellArt Director......................................Diane Thodos
Production Manager...............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager........................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Associate Photo Editor......................Gene Yonish
Asst Features Editor...............Pauline Kramer
Asst. Ent Editor.............c...........John Cantine
Asst. Sports Editor.........................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Mgr. .... ..........Kathleen Wasch
Production Staff: Mary Avjian, Peter Bain, 
Margaret Eissler, Andrew Ghali, Ross Serin, Jean 
Siegel, Cars ten Thode, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publicauon any 
copy it deems unfit for publicauon. Editorial Office* 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices; Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111.24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 3
Letters
Acordingth scgwt cehkam amkcas
Editor:
Having been at this school long enough 
to have seen several of these false debates and 
created controversies, which produce a lot of 
heat and litde light, this latest non-issue 
regarding fraternities doesnt perturb me too 
greatly.
Reflecting upon my career here, first as a 
dorm resident and later as a fraternity 
brother, I have been able to evaluate both the 
costs and benefits of each experience. Of all 
the various modes of living and interaction 
available to the students here, none has been 
so scrutinized as the fraternity system. No 
other has been put in the spotlight and 
examined as frequently as the fraternities. 
None has been so editorialized and written 
upon time and time again in The Tartan.
After all this examination, no system has 
been so consistendy valued and valuable, as 
evidenced by the yearly pledging of 
hundreds of men into the several houses; by 
our additions to the social life upon campus, 
by the good grade averages of the houses, by 
the charitable works we do, and most importandy, by the sense of brotherhood and 
meaning each member has gained.
As with all other gatherings of people, we 
have our less honorable members and have 
done our share of less desirable deeds; non
etheless, the fraternities tower above such 
things, and have and will remain a useful, 
commendable and desirable alternative to 
men at CMU.
For those so-called critics of the fraternityFor Doug Blair:
are uninformed upon, who have written 
and may be expected to continue to do so, 
who are (to paraphrase Disraeli) inebriated 
with the exuberance of their own verbosity, 
I have litde regard and less concern.
The choice, I insist, is for the individual to 
render; as I will not encourage the fraternal 
system for those who do not desire it, I 
would expect others not to dissuade those 
tempered towards fratemalism, from so 
choosing.
The only rational way of choosing is by 
valuing your own opinion, based upon 
first-hand knowledge and examination, 
higher than those opinions spawned by the 
criticism for controversys sake we now see.
Those gendemen that have pledged 
houses last Friday, not out of die coercion of 
any, are to be commended; and those who 
opted not to join, their choices are to be 
respected as well. Fraternities ask no special 
consideration; just the principle of rational 
thought guiding ones opinions is suitable 
for us. With best wishes.
Ralph M. Sherman
_JMi v !
..
m
ALumi & affmuJMJ
pag i
Frat excesses continue to do damage
Editor:
In our letter to The Tartan of two weeks 
ago, we mentioned (and Stephen L. Schoch 
noticed) that since independents make up
pmismawh amhrcghm tc Aul ,anrmh
Editor:
To Doug Blair:
1.) I agree that there is too much opinion in 
The Tartan, but its sure a lot better than 
that stuff they call news, entertainment 
and sports. If The Tartan gets real reporters, 
then the opinion columns can go.
2.) When I hear frat-boys going its great, 
its great about the ZBT gravestones, I 
know that us independents are doing 
much better, Thank you.
3.) Yes, Wayne does go a litde too far, but at 
least he cares. This place has been the Apathy 
University for much too long. Stand up and 
fight for your rights (or else well all be 
killed, poor, etc.)
4.) Why walk to the back of a packed bus (in 
front) if youre going to get out in a mile and
a half? (I agree, though it is quite 
inconsiderate.)
5.) Hey, be glad theyre not beating you up 
and taking your money.
6.) Im sure its more a matter of pride or 
even laziness rather than enough time. 
Why should I help him?
7.) Another reason that Gang of Four is one 
of the best bands in the world  Personal 
Politics gone international.
8.) Your ideas arent petty, only your 
columns.
p.s. To hell with apathy!
John L. Woodworth 
Applied Math *85
the majority population the Greeks should 
adapt to our way of life. Our intention 
was to apply Keegans so-called logic to 
himself in order to stress our view. We 
assumed that the people viewing our letter 
would be intelligent enough to read 
between the lines. We were wrong. Further
more, our reference to Nazi Germany was 
merely our reaction to Keegans ideas on 
how the world should be run, nothing 
more.
Despite the efforts of S.L.Schoch more 
fuel has been added to the fire. On the cover 
of the October 5 Tartan was a picture of ZBT 
fraternity, tombstones and all (whether or 
not charges are pressed, taking things that 
dont belong to you is still stealing). Please 
note the graves dug in front of the build
ing. Since fraternities are also University 
housing, this must be considered destruc
tion of University property, right Mr. 
Martin?
We dont know who is going to re-seed 
ZBTs yard but it had better not be Physical 
Plant. Our tuition and charges are high 
enough without having to clean up ZBTs 
mess. In the interest of truth we think The
Tartan should investigate this matter and 
get a definite quote from Tony Martin or 
Dean Walter on who is paying, what is 
being done to enforce the schools regula
tions, etc. ZBT may have already been pun
ished, but we would like to see it in print. If 
someone ran a picture of us digging a hole 
in the Cut wed be lucky if we were still in 
school a week later. This incident coupled 
with Andrew Hudsons example of last 
week certainly reinforces the fraternal sys
tems negative contribution to our campus.
If you are sick and tired of putting up 
with things like this and having it forgotten 
as just some boys having a litde fun then 
get vocal. Call or write the people in author
ity and put them on the spot. Dont ask for 
revenge, just equity.
Incidendy, open-cam pus parties are now 
forbidden in dorms, all parties must be by 
invitation (no more Schlag or Doherty par
ties). However, this rule does not apply to 
fraternities or sororities. Remember, equity.
Tom Sullivan
Soph. EE.Given names: more distinctive than nicknames
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
I dont know what it is with people, but 
they never seem to want to call people by 
their full names. It is rare that I introduce 
myself to someone that they call me Cathe
rine right off. Most people 
smile cordially, shake my hand, 
and say, "Nice to meet you, 
Cathy, or Kate, or Katie, or Kit, 
or whatever other names are for Catherine.
Its not that I dont like any of those 
names, its just that Catherine is my given 
name and what I happen to use. It seems to 
me that every other Catherineor Kathryn, 
or Kathleen; there are dozens of ways to spell 
ithas a nickname. I just like my name the 
way it is.
This is especially true of people with lessthan-common names, like Juarez, or 
Gabriella, or Uhyung. These are real names, 
not made up; my family has had over a 
dozen exchange students in the past fifteen 
years, and very few erf them retained their
given names while in the States.
When you think about it, thats really an 
insult. Juarez had been with us less than a 
week when he told us that the kids at the 
high school had decided to call him Joe 
because it was easier to say. If you cant 
bother to say someones name correcdy, how 
interested are you in them?
My mothers name is Jane, which is about
as simple as you can get, but people used to 
call her Jenny. Thats adding a syllable, for 
crying out loud! Another friend of mine, 
Daniel, likes to be called Daniel, not Dan; 
people just cant seem to get the hang of it.
Some given names already sound like 
nicknames, so nobody bothers to try to 
shorten them; Terry, Sue and Jack are all 
examples of this. But everybody out there 
who has a name that is either longer than
five letters or just unusual, stick with it. If 
you correct people when they try to shorten 
your name, youll not only end up with the 
name you want, but people will remember 
you as well. Oh, yeah, youre the girl with 
the long name...
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
Ignorance causing friction between students
cordirngt aom hswg p
with the past month of Greek rush, the most 
current, heated debate is between fraternity 
and nonaligned lifestyles.
Much of this bickering is caused by an 
ignorance of the enemy. And why 
shouldnt we be ignorant, having almost 
no opportunity or location to have any con
tact with them, much less exchange any
ideas? One main purpose of a Union, and 
one prime need of the student community at 
present, is to provide a medium in which to 
interact.
It is unheard of, almost ridiculous, that a 
University of this stature and resources 
should have no facility expressly designed
for the social life of its students. The admin
istration in recent years has been trying to
bridge, or at least lessen, the gaps between 
engineers, hackers, H&SS, and everyone else 
on campus. It should seem obvious, though, 
that the largest step in the right direction 
that could be taken would be giving us a 
place to meet. How committed to the task is 
Warner HaU?
But wait....true, this whole mess is parcordirngt or hswg e
Cl I Vili *  . v \ i

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
and we need;
editorswritersstaff submissionsstories poems 
creative essays cartoons photography illustration b&w artwork
meeting tonight
8:30 for all interestedTartan office
or call x2112 or x3567

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 5
Acrng, 1nt8 t8m gitncgid gmordcyomgt sndmooiC t1c irracik8mh
A new program Drafting women
ul Ralph Sherman
A recent article in the New York Times, 
entitled "U.S. to pay Farmers to Idle Com 
Fields discussed the plans of John R. 
Block, the Secretary of Agriculture, to keep 
paying farmers for idling ten 
percent of the land they usually 
plant with com, in order to get 
their payments from the com
modity surplus program. The theory here is 
that, in the expensive and highly competi
tive field of farming, a floor for prices is 
necessary; as well, the land must be encour
aged to lay fallow, allowing it to be replen
ished with vital nutrients, so that it will be 
more productive in the future.
The concept of fallow is nothing new; 
farmers in Kansas and the Macedonian val
ley have both shared this concept as one 
necessary to the growth of good crops and 
the preservation of the fields. Unfortunately, 
no one has ever looked at people this way, 
and the concept of replenishing the AmeriCutler's defense
cordirngt aom hswg p
Eco-Week, instead of saying nobody cares 
about them. And if you feel my Social Secur
ity plan is unfeasible-then back it up with 
reasons, or were you so caught up in your 
clowning around that it never occurred to 
you.
I welcome rebuttals. What I hate is ignor
ance, belligerence, and the lack of respect for 
ones work! Im sure most of you will agree 
with me. Please, be constructive in your crit
icisms, so I can get back to the Economic 
issues, thanks.
Wayne Cutler is a senior majoring in 
managerial economics and is a columnist 
for The Tartan.
can workforce is not being discussed. I aim 
to change this, and right now.
Lets face it, most people look at unem
ployment as a degrading and horrifying 
possibility, in which they shall suffer finan
cially and emotionally. Under our current 
system, that is a logical thing. But, under the 
new system, all this would be eradicated like 
bugs sprayed by Raid. No more degrada
tion, no more embarrassment; and best of 
all, under this system, we would have fresh, 
re-vitalized workers.
How would it work? Simply. Instead of
having unemployment centers and unem
ployment checks, there would be Revitaliza
tion Centers issuing Revitalization Bonus 
Stipends. Just as a farmer lets some of his 
land go fallow, and puts nutrients into it so 
that it will be capable of sustaining new 
crops, we ought to let some of our workers 
be laid fallow, to be stimulated by the nut
rients of free time and the necessary money 
to enjoy such time.
Some will, seeing the novelty of this pro
gram, be a tad skeptical as to its efficacy; but, 
they are the same people we would see driv-tsmgth 1acg,
cordirngt aom hswg k
tially the fault of the administration, but the 
majority of the blame lies with the students. 
We should know by now that no student 
organization, especially one on the scale of 
this union of students, will ever be estab
lished unless the push, pressure, and deter
mination come from the students 
themselves. So tell me, how committed to 
the task are the students?
Paul Spillane is a freshman in HirSS and 
ia a columnist for The Tartan.
ing their farms into the ground, burning up 
the topsoil of productivity, and with little to 
show by this but a quickly despoiled collec
tion of useless dirt and dead crops. Lets 
listen to Secretary Blocks sage advice; he 
said the government has to do everything 
possible to reduce the grain surpluses and 
increase commodity prices. Using this 
same principle, just substitute the words 
worker for grain, and wages for commodity 
prices.
I do not believe that such a program could 
run more than the mish-mash of state and 
national programs we have today, all contri
buting to the demoralization of our nations 
workers. If, instead of this horror, we could 
hear monthly announcements of the 
number of Americans being revitalized, if 
we could know that there was a system that 
promoted the joys of free time and the 
means to afford such a happy period, we 
could all rest easier. President Reagan, who 
some view as an anti-labor politician, could 
wipe out this image with one stroke of his 
pen. Perhaps the next step would be a 
Cabinet-level Department of Revitalization, 
with a Secretary of Revitalization to be avail
able to our presidents.
Our society rewards the wealthy with leis
ure and the poor with drudgery; surely 
Lewis Mumford is right in saying that A 
society that gives to one class all the oppor
tunities for leisure, and to another all the 
burdens of work, dooms both classes to spir
itual sterility. We can no longer afford this 
sterility; every worker must be allowed to 
become a potent and virile member of the 
nation, for a better United States of America.
Ralph M. Sherman is a senior majonng in 
political science and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
By Andy Stahl
Lately, Ive heard complaints of the 
unemployment problem facing this coun
try. This problem is easily solvable. All we 
have to do is draft women into the Armed 
Forces. There are many valid 
reasons for doing this, I will 
now list some of them.
1. If we draft women, we take 
them out of the work force. This creates job 
openings and the unemployed man can fill 
them. 2. If we draft women into combat 
units, and if a war breaks out, we will lose 
more women in combat than men, this cuts 
down the competition for jobs once the 
women are out of the service. 3. Finally, if we 
draft women, men will now have a chance 
to work in a war-time economy.
During World War II, the men went off to 
fight and have a good time. The women had 
to work in factories, shipyards and steel 
mills to support them. Rosie the Riveter was 
big time. Now we can have Robbie the Rive
ter, while the girls are drinking, trading 
candy bars for favors from the natives and 
getting shot at.
If we draft women, the conservatives who 
want a draft will be happy. The liberals who 
supprt equal rights will get affirmative 
action for women to make up for past abuses 
by the military selective service system.
Last but least, how will the Russias fig
ure out a way to attack us? The Reds will 
now have to change their strategies and this 
will set them back a decade.
Andy Stahl is a junior majoring in social 
science and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
''Dummy, counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discov6ry of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
OHIAf<^seicN,
RECORDCAl C^Hl r KNStoD&p\
I in great rmevrd *
 * OAINSI /
GET YOUR FAVORITES AT BIG ; SAVINGS!
$gJ>/ $1.98
** AND UP
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STVLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
 lop Artists.
 Major Labels. 
Hundreds of Selections. 
"l*op' to Classic.
 Stereo LP Albums. 
Cassettes. Box Sets.
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
(^GROT
fcenmms.
PRECSON HAHCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post Office
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
Oct 12 to Oct 22
REGISTER FOR A FREE "WALKING MUSIC" MINI STEREO CASSETTE 
PLAYER TO BE GIVEN AWAY DURING OUR SPECIAL RECORD SALE
emu bcckstcreIN BAKE* HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 12, 1982
New guidelinesCyert proposes revised alcohol policy
The following is a modification of Presi
dent Cyert's recently proposed alcohol pol
icy. It is not yet policy: it is only being 
proposed.
Cyert has sent copies of this policy to the 
Student Senate and the Faculty Senate for 
endorsement.
 Editor
The use of alcohol on campus is an area 
of continuing concern. I want to ask you to 
think carefully about the use of alcohol and 
in addition I want to specify a general prin
ciple and some guidelines.
From a legal standpoint, Pennsylvania 
law prohibits the sale or serving of alcoholic 
beverages to persons of less than 21 years of 
age. The university in this area as in all 
other areas is committed to compliance with 
the law. No faculty member of the university 
or administrator should sponsor or partici
pate in an official university event that 
involves the use of university funds at which 
alcoholic beverages are served to persons
who are under 21 years of age. This princi
ple takes precedence over any specific 
guideline.
. In addition to legal considerations, the 
misuse of alcohol clearly is responsible for a 
large number of problems in our society. 
The university has an obligation to provide 
an environment in which students leam to 
recognize these problems and to avoid them. 
An outright ban on drinking probably is 
both ineffective and socially not helpful. 
Nevertheless we do have an obligation to 
encourage responsible behavior both by 
word and by example.,
I would like you to consider the following 
guidelines in addition to the general princi
ple oudined above.
1. Official University Functions. Because 
many undergraduates are under 21 years of 
age, the service of alcoholic beverages pur
chased with university funds to undergradu
ates at official functions is not appropriate.
2. Graduate Events. Events which are held *
specifically for graduate students and at 
which only graduate students are in attend
ance may include the service of alcoholic 
beverages. The faculty sponsor or the 
appropriate dean and department head are 
responsible for seeing that only persons age 
21 or older are served.
3. Location. Events at which alcoholic bev
erages are served on campus must take place 
at a location that is private in the sense that it 
is both feasible and reasonable to limit 
attendance to invited guests.
4. Clean-up. Organizers of any social event 
with or without alcoholic beverages are 
responsible for seeing that the location of 
the event is carefully cleaned within several 
hours following the event. In other words, 
empty drink containers, botdes, beer cans, 
etc., should not be left lying around any 
space in the university.
5. Students. Students within the privacy of 
their own dorm rooms, dorm lounges, 
social rooms, campus apartments, fraterni
ties, or sororities are responsible for their 
own behavior. They clearly should under
stand that their behavior is governed by the 
laws of Pennsylvania. In addition, the 
behavior of students should not under any 
circumstances interfere with the rights of 
other persons or result in damage to the 
property of others. If interference or damage 
occurs, the university reserves the right to 
place and enforce whatever restraints are 
deemed appropriate.
Mcdnkm amrcat
cordirngt aom hswg ,
Also on Sept. 2 at 2:20 a.m., two CMU 
students detained 4 males attempting to cut 
the lock on a ten-speed bike in front of 
Mudge Graduate House. A passing CMU 
student noticed the commotion and 
returned to the scene with his friend, and the 
two detained the suspects until police arri
val. All four suspects were placed under 
arrest.
E-Systems continues the tradition of the worlds great problem solvers.
Recognized with 
Archimedes and Newton as 
one of the three greatest 
mathematicians, Karl Gauss 
also pioneered math in 
astronomy, gravitation, elec
tricity and magnetism.
E-Systems engineers 
are continuing in his foot
steps today. They are 
pioneering technology and 
solving some of the worlds 
toughest problems in 
electronic transmission 
and signal-reception in an 
interference and noise 
background using basic 
Gaussian concepts.
E-Systems pioneer
ing in communications, 
data, antenna, intelligence 
and reconnaissance proj
ects results in systems that 
are often the first-of-a-kind 
in the world.
For a reprint of the 
Gauss illustration and 
information on career op
portunities with E-Systems 
in Texas, Florida, Indi
ana, Utah or Virginia, write:
Lloyd K. Lauderdale, V.P. 
Research and Engineering, 
E-Systems, Corporate 
Headquarters, P.O.
Box 226030, Dallas,
Texas 75266.
An equal opportunity employer M/F. H. V
E-SYSTEMS
The problem solvers.
ALumia

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 7
Newsweek amrcatma hrmiUh iect pmi,ig
By MARY AVJIAN
Tartan Staffumtrr
Camegie-Mellon students got a closer 
look at the presidency on Oct. 4 when News
week correspondent Eleanor Clift spoke on 
the topic An Anecdotal Look at the Rea
gan White House.
The lecture, arranged by the planning 
committee for the Presidents Distinguished 
Lecture Series, was the first of the 1982-83 
academic year.
The Presidents Distinguished Lecture 
Series was started last year with the goal of 
enlivining the campus by bringing distin
guished guests in to speak to the students, 
faculty, staff, and trustees at CMU. Student 
reaction was that Eleanor Clift added that 
enlivining presence last Monday with her 
first hand views of the President in action.
Clifts experience in Washington is by no 
means meager; she came to the captol with
Jimmy Carter after following his progres
sion from a dark horse candidate in Georgia 
to the President of the United States. Shes 
been in Washington covering the news with 
co-correspondent Tom DeFrank ever since.
Gifts talk was mainly concerned with 
Ronald Reagan as a person. Ronald Rea
gan comes across as a nice guy, she began. 
She added that the sincerity Reagan shows 
helps both with his nice guy image and 
his image of trustworthiness.
It is this trustworthiness that leads his staff 
to believe that the people are still buying 
Reagan, Clift says. This allows him to 
preach the advisability of his programs and 
gain popular support.
Part of Reagans nice guy image is his 
passion for personal letters. Last year he 
wrote 1000 of them and maintains a file of 
9000 first name responses.
Apparendy, however, Reagans enthusiam for letters does not extend to other types 
of paperwork. Clift divulged that Reagan 
hates memos, and would much rather be 
orally briefed than sift through reams of 
reports. This doesnt seem to bother the pres
ident at all, as he is not interested in the finer 
details of national policy. Clift added 
Ronald Reagan is probably the most unin
formed president in modem history.
This does not affect Reagans decision 
making policy, though. He does not, she 
said, lose any sleep over a decision, once 
making an important decision every four 
minutes. In contrast to Jimmy Carter, who 
liked memos and fine details and who 
would spend hours making one decision. 
Reagan is, as Clift terms it, a very simple 
man.
Yet, despite the Presidents seeming inep
titude, Clift added that the present adminiscordirngt or hswg 1ELEANOR CLIFT
Seniors
Graduate Students
Monday, October 25,1982
11 am-5Dm
Skibo Hall, Wherrett Room
BS/MS in CS, Computer Engineering, EE, ME, IE, Math, Physics, 
Accounting/Finance, MBAs.
Come informally any time during the day and learn about career 
opportunities in IBM from many different locations throughout the 
country. Then sign-up on interview schedules of your choice for 
formal interviews which will take place on Wednesday, November 10.
No long lines. No overflows. No missed opportunities. 
Refreshments will be served. 
Bring 3 resumes.
U.S. Citizenship or permanent residence required for interviews.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 12, 1982
-mongia tmik8mh ngtmanm1ng, hUnddh
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwritrr
The Office of Career Services and Place
ment presented a seminar entided Hows 
Your Interviewing IQ? to a crowded Skibo 
Ballroom on Thursday October 7, at 7:30 
p.m. This seminar was the first of a series 
designed to help students become better 
adjusted to the job finding process.
The speakers at the seminar were Patrick 
Fallon, former manager of college relations 
and recruiting at Mellon Bank; Luke Noggle, placement manager of Westinghouse 
Electrical Corporation, and Elizabeth Berkely, personnel administrator of Hammermill Paper Co. Each discussed a different 
aspect of the interviewing process.
Fallon addressed the question, What is it 
you ought to know before you enter that first 
job interview? He said, You cant get a job 
without knowing someone, and that one 
person is yourself. The whole process starts 
with introspection.
He advised students to approach the job 
search as if they were totally independent, 
without the support of peers or placement 
agencies, and to evaluate their skills, attrib
utes and areas of interest. In preparing for a 
job interview, said Fallon, make a list of 
things you do well and things that you need 
to develop. You have no weaknesses, he 
said. You have areas of development.
In regard to the mechanics of the inter
view, Fallon stressed the importance of hav
ing a short, concise resume and a list of 
references. He elaborated on how the var
ious types of recruiters conduct interviews. 
The personnel types know a lot about their 
organization in terms erf benefits and salar
ies, but litde about specific departments 
within the organization. In contrast, the 
function specialist knows about the jobs and
departments, but lide about the organiza
tion. These types of recruiters will either 
gear the interview towards getting to know 
the person or evaluating the persons skills. 
The trained recruiter, one who has gone 
through a recruiter training program, will 
conduct a more dimensional interview, 
assessing skills and looking for attributes 
that predict success.
Noggle concentrated on the kinds of 
information the company looks for in the 
context of the screening interview. Noggle 
said the companies are interested in finding 
out what you, the prospective employee, 
will do, how well you can do it, and under 
what conditions you will do it. To make a 
decision the company, therefore, wants to 
know the persons interests, what hes done, 
what he wants to do, and where he wants his 
career to go. A company also wants to know 
a persons qualifications. Different jobs, 
Noggle said, require different things; some 
require adacemic skills while others require 
people kinds erf skills like leadership.
The CMU Peace Alliance, a group of 
faculty and students concerned with the 
threat of nuclear war and related issues, will 
meet today at 5:30 in Wean Hall 8325. Its 
goals are to promote education and aware
ness on campus about these problems, and 
to get people involved in working toward a 
solution.
In November, the alliance will conduct a 
convocation on the threat of nuclear war, in 
conjunction with the University of Pitts
burghs Arms Race Study Group. This 
event will have films, speakers and presenta
tions on the various aspects of nuclear war
fare and the arms race.
Finally, a company wants to know that will 
make a person accept a job offer  what 
values he holds that will make him more or 
less likely to accept a job.
Noggle emphasized the importance of 
communication when being interviewed. 
The company wont know what your inter
ests, qualifications and values are unless you 
make them known. He concluded by say
ing, "If youve worked through the things 
Mr. Fallon said earlier and are reasonable 
qualified for the job, chances are theyre 
going to give it to you.
Berkely finished the seminar with a dis
cussion of the on-site visit and the job offer. 
The on-site visit has a dual purpose, she 
said; it gives the company a chance to look at 
the applicant and allows the applicant to get 
a look at the company. The visit constitutes 
a tiring, mentally taxing day, as the com
pany is trying to find out as much as possi
ble about the person while giving the person 
a chance to get the flavor of the community.
From the companys standpoint, the purSimilar events will be taking place on 
over 250 campuses nationwide, which are 
sponsored by a coalition of peace groups 
representing diverse constituencies, includ
ing the Union of Concerned Scientists, 
Council on Economic Priorities, Federation 
of American Scientists, International Physi
cians for Prevention of Nuclear War, 
National Council of Churches of Christ, 
Physicians for Social Responsibility, and 
others.
As with last years convocation, there are a 
number of issues to be presented centering 
on the theme of finding solutions to the
pose of the visit is to see how well a person 
functions in an environment outside of the 
initial interview. For an applicant the visit is 
a chance to ask questions about the 
company.
Berkely said, If you have any questions 
left unanswered, it is not our (the com
panys) fault. The company provides the 
person with many opportunities to ask 
questions, including candid talks with cur
rent employees. So, not only does the visit 
determine whether you will be offered a job, 
but also whether the offer will be accepted.
. All three speakers stressed the importance 
of what many students consider minor 
aspects of an interview, such as firm greet
ing, eye contact and appropriate dress. Ber
kely pointed out that the same dress code 
that applies to the interview also holds for 
the on-site visit. Also, the speakers agreed 
that the person being interviewed is very 
important throughout the entire process. 
An essential thing to remember, the speakers 
said, is to be yourself.
arms race. Among these are the history and 
strategy behind the arms race, achieving 
arms control, reducing danger of starting a 
war, and alternatives to present methods and 
strategies. The nuclear freeze movement and 
other current projects will be discussed, 
along with related issues such as economic 
costs, social costs, and the effects on the third 
world countries.
In addition to the convocation, the Arms 
Control Study Group, an undergraduate 
affiliate of the alliance, will conduct open 
debates throughout the year for the benefit 
of the campus community.
Peace alliance conducts convocation
v
uiiiuui/ *m FEBRUARY 19
mi16
23
17
24
16
252G27a
Wednesday, October 13 
Skibo Ballroom 
8 PM 
No charge
Sponsored by: Student Activities
1 HIHf I l>
if in in y in \n i i IAHI I H v

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 9
Clift discusses theNovember elections
cordirngt aom hswg 8
tration is very well run. Reagans aides are 
very adequate and fit for the task of running 
a country. For example, she pointed out that 
Reagan likes to have a decision made before 
it comes to him. His four person decision 
team basically does that, bringing him a 
decision to either approve or veto. There is 
usually no conflict between Reagan and the 
decision team, but if there is, the presidents 
will is usually carried out.
Clift also gave reasons for Reagans mis
takes before the press. She said that rapid fire 
questions confuse the president because he 
forgets what he can and cannot say. Also, 
although Reagan does not like written 
reports; if he is asked a question pertaining 
to the article he remembers part, but not all, 
of the information and thus, makes his 
mistake.
Clift also addressed the topic of the 
upcoming Congressional elections. Some of 
the things she said to look for are:
Republicans blaming the countrys 
present state on Jimmy Carter and 40 years 
of a Democratic Congress.
Democrats accusing Reagan of being a 
smiling Herbert Hoover.
Ronald Reagan campaigning hard for 
Republican candidates, for if he loses
bait 8mdrh Unsh
Recently the brothers of the Kappa 
Sigma Fraternity took twenty retarded citi
zens to the Pittsburgh Pirates last game of 
the season. At the end of every season, the 
Pirate organization has a fan appreciation 
day and randomly gives away prizes to the 
ticket holders of special numbers. Although 
only one person won a Pirate stocking cap, 
all persons involved had a great day at the 
ball game.
enough support in the house he will be 
unable to persue his programs.
She added that the Democrats main wea
kness is that they have no alternative to 
supply-side economics. She added that 
although Reagans aides know that the fig
ures dont add up with supply side economics and a huge defense budget, one of 
Reagans principle pleas to the people will 
be to stay the course and continue to have 
faith in the supply side program.
Clifts lecture ended with a question and 
answer period, after which a reception was 
held. During the reception students and 
faculty were able to meet with Clift and ask 
her further questions.
The next lecture in the series is scheduled 
for Nov. 1 at 4.00, when Daniel Koshman for 
UC Berkley will address the topic Chemis
try as a form of Behavior.
No, students arent revolting against their classes. These old chairs were gathered from class
rooms to start Fridays bonfire.
WVU students cause problems at CMU, Pitt
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
David Heller, president of Phi Kappa 
Theta, revealed the facts behind the rumor 
about the supposed fight between West Vir
ginia University students and the brothers of 
Phi Kap that was said to have occurred the 
Friday night before the WVU-Pitt game, 
October 2.
According to Heller, five or six people 
who were wearing WVU shirts came to the 
house on Friday evening and started to play 
pool with the brothers. Everything was fine 
until the WVU students started getting 
obnoxious. They were asked to leave by 
some brothers. Im sure there was an argu
ment, commented Heller, but no fight.
At one point one brother was hit across 
the forehead with a pool cue. Security was
called but by the time they arrived the WVU 
students had fled the scene. The brother that 
was hit was taken to Shadyside Hospital and 
released.
Security added that the WVU students 
fled down Forbes to Oakland. Following 
the perpetrators, the CMU police ran into 
the Pitt police who were having many prob
lems of their own with the WVU people.
My understanding was that a lot erf WVU 
people were raising Cain at Pitt and causing 
many injuries, said Bob Fadzen, of 
Security.
Another rumor says that the WVU people 
also went to Delta Upsilon and then to Beta 
Theta Pi. This rumor has been denied by 
Beta president Mike Seel and is 
unsubstantiated.Lunch series planned
In an effort to get to know the students, 
Brad Walter, acting dean erf Student Affairs, 
is arranging a series of luncheons for stu
dents and administrators.
The lunches will take place in the Tartan 
Grill and dining rooms in Skibo. A featured 
faculty member or administrator will dis
cuss issues erf concern to students and listen 
to student input 
The luncheons will be held once a week, 
Walter said. He and Lois Cox, associate 
dean of Student Affairs, are seeking ideas for 
administrators and faculty. The first lun
cheon will be with Walter and Cox.
Allegheny Womens Center
an out patient medical clinic ottering
 abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
kypCp1pPregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
MU,p yv8CbS.b
.rvBoth tenters wilt be open daily tor ptrgiwwy tests and <ounseling.
.iifAnfouWomensCenter
Medical Center East Building Penthouse Right (8th floor) 211 North Whitfield Street Pittsburgh. PA 15206
Marcello's Typing Service
-rmknidnSmh ng .cas 
Mackmhhng,
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresu me?/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
biht 299nknmgt pmihcgiedm 
Call Ms. West 371 -3657 
(24 hour service)
70% snhkcgt 1nt8 kcrcg
<VGYN
CHECK-UPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Uiomens 
Health 
Services...
625 STANWIX ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 562-1900
Next summer starts this December at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
We are now accepting applications for our 1983 Sum
mer Employment Program. Employment at our national 
laboratory requires a security clearance; therefore, we 
need your application no later than December 1, 1982.
At LLNL, we have summer jobs designed to give students and faculty an unusual 
opportunity to identify and develop area? of professional interest through exposure 
to a wide variety of R&D projects We conduct basic and applied research and 
development in energy and national defense programs
A variety of Summer Employment assignments are available in the following areas:
ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING: Pulse power and power conditioning, design and 
instrumentation, computer systems and software, and control engineering.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING: Design, structural analysis, non destructive evaluation, 
precision measurements, instrumentation development, mechanical behavior analysis
PLANT ENGINEERING: Positions involving planning, design, construction and 
maintenance of our facilities and utility systems
Openings are also available outside our Engineering Departments in these areas: Direc
tors Office, Magnetic Fusion Energy Computer Center. Physics. Chemistry, 
Biomedical, Nuclear Chemistry, Computation and Hazards Control Departments
If you are interested in a technically challenging Summer in 1983. apply now for the 
LLNL Summer Employment Program
Write or call collect immediately for an application package:
Jean Morgan (415) 422-9367 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory 
Employment Division 
P.O. Box S510, Dept. JCSUMM 
Livermore, CA 94550
You may also contact your Placement Office for brochures.
An equal opportunity employer. U S CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED
University of California
I IB Lawrence Livermore L-d National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

TheNeewsp
The Tartan meets 
each Monday night 
at 8:00 p.m.
Come join the staff 
Help build The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 11
Clift compares styles of Carter and Reagan
On Monday, October 4, Eleanor Clift 
spoke at CMU as part of the Presidents 
Distinguished Lecture series. Clift was the 
White House Correspondent for Newsweek 
magazine during the Jimmy Carter presid
ency, and has remained to cover the Reagan 
White House. John Cantine, Tartan Assist
ant Entertainment Editor, talked to Clift 
about the Reagaon and Carter 
Administrations.
TARTAN: To start chronologically: You 
started out covering Carter when Carter was 
just a minor candidate. Im not sure of the 
history of this: are you given credit for dis
covering him?
Clift; Not me personally. You could say 
that the newsmagazines discovered him, in 
the sense that after he won the New Hamp
shire primary, he was on the cover of News
week, and I believe Time as well. But I think 
the first credit for discovering him should go 
to the New York Times, to a journalist by 
the name of Johnny Apple, who did a front
page story saying that Carter was going to 
win the Iowa caucus. That was what made 
everybody in the media suddenly look at 
him, and in the calculations of the Carter 
campaign, they look at that as the turning 
point. Momentum was the word, I think it 
was popularized that year. They knew that if 
they got publicity early on, that it would 
carry them through the later primaries. 
Tartan: Many people consider that a prob
lem that if a candidate wins the early prim
aries, then he just keeps rolling along, 
because the media focus on him so 
intensely.
Clift; Yes, except if you remember, in 1980 
George Bush won the New Hampshire 
primary, and I remember there was great 
agitation in Newsweek, should we put him 
on the cover or not, because we had put 
Carter on the cover four years earlier for 
doing the same thing. As it ended up, we put 
Bush on the cover. He was in his jogging 
suit, and I think the headline read Break
ing Out of the Pack. Well, that was his 
high point. From then on he deteriorated. 
Tartan: And people seem willing to give 
Reagan time to turn things around. They 
seem to be very patient with him.
Clift: Well, I almost think that supply-side 
economics is never going to work, but I 
applaud the notion that the man gets more 
than two years. How can you come in and 
turn around a country this size, an economy 
of this size, in two years? Hes right when he 
argues that it took forty years to get into the 
mess. You can go back to the Vietnam war 
as the beginning of the undoing of the econ
omy, and probably before that. I agree with 
him that he needs more time, but Im not 
sure that even time will resuscitate supplyside economics.
Tartan: Can we talk a little about the differ
ence in styles between Carters presidency 
and Reagans presidency?
Clift: They couldnt be more different, in 
terms of personality, and in terms oif the 
way they viewed the presidency. Jimmy Car
ter saw the presidency as a way of righting 
every wrong that hed ever been exposed to, 
and Ronald Reagan came up with a very 
narrow view, in the sense that he wanted to 
tackle one or two problems and that would 
be enough. I think in a sense that Ronald 
Reagans view probably makes more sense 
than the Carter view.
Jimmy Carter had so many balls in the air 
in his first year that I remember an aide 
saying to us that working in the Carter 
White House was like tap-dancing on 
quicksand, there was just so much going on.
But I dont want to give Ronald Reagan 
the complete benefit of that doubt either, 
because I think Ronald Reagan has neg
lected some problems. He didnt view the 
Middle East for the first year and a half of his 
term, and I think he bears some of the blame 
for the fact that Begin has gone as far as he 
has, because Reagan really didnt draw the 
line soon enough.
On a personal level, Reagans a very greg
arious fellow. He likes his time off, he takes 
Wednesday afternoons off to go horseback 
riding, and hes rarely in the Oval Office 
past four or five in the evening. He does not 
want to get too involved in the details of any 
policy, which has both advantages and dis
advantages. He is frequendy caught short in
press conferences because he has not been 
kept abreast, or he has not kept himself
Introducing...MUSICHERE Of NOW
Twentieth-century American 
composers and highlights of 
Pittsburghs musical heritage 
performed by members of the
PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Conducted by 
John Harbison & Michael Lankester
Sat., October 16
. Works by VICTOR HERBERT  
CHARLES IVES  JOHN HARBISON
Sun., October 17
. Works by JOHN CAGE  WILLIAM 
THOMAS McKINLEY  JOHN PEEL 
. WALTER PISTON
8 p.m., Morris Kaufmann Aud.,
Jewish Community Center, Oakland 
Tickets: $10,7-50% student discount 
Heinz Hall Box Office, Kaufmann's.
U. of Pgh., Duquesne U., CMU, & at 
the door eve. of performances
For Information, Call 281-5000
abreast, of a policy.
Carter would get to work at 5:30 in the 
morning, and wanted to see every piece of 
paper that came through the White House. 
The most notorious example was the fact 
that he even booked the White House tennis 
courts. And he was a workaholic to the 
extent that he saw campaign trips, he saw 
major speeches, all as things to be endured, 
that took him away from his real work of 
going through his In-box. Ive often 
thought that the perfect presidency would 
be Ronald Reagan as the front man and 
Jimmy Carter as the Chief of Staff, but of 
course that wouldnt work.
Tartan: Which presidential style do you 
prefer, the one who atends to all the details 
or the one who lets his staff do all the work? 
Cliff Something in between. I think Ronald 
Reagan goes too far in delegating details. 
Although if you pinned me against the wall, 
at the mid-term of each of these presidencies, 
I would say that Ronald Reagan has proved 
to be more successful in terms of the leader
ship that he projects. In terms of actual work 
accomplished at the end of four years, I 
think we shouldnt forget that Carter did 
some significant things.
Tartan: And he seemed to be caught up in 
the events. They seemed to be pushing him 
out and he couldnt do anything to stop it 
Clift: Well, the same thing happened to Rea
gan. Hes been caught up in events in the 
Middle East, yet there is something in the 
way Reagan has responded that gives you 
the illusion of his being in control. I think 
that by the time the hostages were seized in
Contest judges 'un-dorms'
The deadline for entries in the un-dorm 
contest has been extended to October 20. 
The deadline was originally September 
30th, but the meager response from some 
universities has prompted the sponsors to 
extend the deadline.
The contest is city-wide and many stu
dents have already sent in their entry forms. 
These students will be contacted within two 
weeks to set up an appointment for the j udging of their dorm rooms.
An attempt to recognize the energy stu
dents expend in personalizing their univer
sity residence hall rooms, the contest is 
intended to be fun  anything goes, except 
of course, any violation of university rules. 
The un-dorm contest will be judged on
r^\$$ ENGINEERING STUDENTS $$
The Air Force's College Senior 
Engineer Program (CSEP) will assist 
you financially during the last year 
of undergraduate or graduate studies.
The CSEP program allows you to 
join the Air Force while still in 
school and receive more than $900 
per month in pay and allowances plus 
full Air Force benefits. After you 
graduate and complete Officer Train
ing School, you'll receive a commis
sion as an Air Force Engineering 
Officer.
For more information, contact 
Sgt. Bob Winterhalter at 644-2705.
All freshman and sophomore engin
eering students and juniors planning 
a graduate program should see the 
AFROTC Professor of Aerospace 
Studies or contact the AFROTC , 
Admissions Counselor, Major ^ 
Stanger at 624-6038.
A great wo y of We
Iran, Carter was already perceived as a 
wimp, which is what reporters would dis
dainfully call him.
I dont think Carter was less daring in 
terms of dealing with world leaders than 
Ronald Reagan. In fact, I would even ven
ture to say that Carter was more daring. He 
took Menachem Begin on One-on-one and 
told him You do this, and Im going to cut 
off American aid. Ronald Reagan doesnt 
dare to meet with Menachem Begin one-onone unless he has his index cards with him.
But perception is reality, and the percep
tion of Carter was of someone who could be 
pushed around. Americans felt that if they 
got Ronald Reagan in the Oval Office, 
nobody would dare to do us dirty. And so 
far, just by that image, the guy out of the 
west on horseback, hes been able to keep 
that perception going for him, despite the 
fact that policy hasnt been going our way in 
the Middle East, or in a number of other 
places.
Tartan: Even at this early date, do you see 
any one candidate standing out above the 
rest for 1984?
Clift: John Glenn is the one that the 
White House thinks has the best chance. 
They figure he can counter Kennedy in the 
patriotism category, having been the space 
hero. He can certainly match up with Rea
gan on that score. Also, they feel that he does
well with blue-collar workers. His labor 
record is pretty good. But he is an absolute 
crashing bore when he gives a speech, and so 
the feeling is that he wont be able to hold a 
candle to Reagan in die charisma category.
originality, creativity and overall design.
Official entry forms may be obtained at 
"The Essex, 122 Meyran Ave, Oakland, 
near the University of Pittsburgh. In spite of 
Pitts geographical closeness, the largest 
number of entries to date have been received 
from Duquesne University.
$300 in prizes will be awarded and further 
questions about the contest may be directed 
to Linda Lannigan at 681-1944. There is no 
purchase required to enter. Items which 
have been purchased from the sponsor 
which are used in the rooms will have no 
bearing on the judges, who will be com
prised of university officials, sponsors, and 
community personalities.
STUDENTS
50% discount 
on sale at Student Union

---------------------------------------------------

Ffce Control Systems
* Radar , * '
* Forward Looking infrared, Television, or Laser 
Technology
Avionics Test Requirements Analysis
* Fadar ;; 1 " \ '<
* Display
* inertial Systems
* Flight Computers
* Communication
If youre ready to get yooft the ground, McDonnell 
Douglas would Hke to talk with you. Sign up at your 
placement office for a personal interview. Here is tha date 
well fee art campus:
Wednesday,
October 20,1982 /
Page 12The TartanOctober 12,1982Names of fall fraternity pledges are listed
We are a leader in fast, exciting fields .. aircraft, missiles, 
electronics, automation Electrical engineers piay a vital 
rote in our continued growth and in&ustn/ leadership. 
Opportunities lor future-minded Electrical Engineers are 
available In these challenging career fields;
Guidance and Control Mechanics
* Digta Flight Control Design/Analysis
* Inertlai Navigation System Analysis
* Soft* re Design Oevetopmenl and Validation
* Trajectory Analysis . -
* Redundant Digital Signal Processing
* Filtering arid Control Techniques 
Reliability /
 Data Analyst*
* Circuit Analysis '
* Part Stress Analysis
* Failure Mode and Effect Analysis ' - $ ; '
Electronics
* Automatic Test Equipment
* Embedded Microprocessor Architecture/De s;gn
* Dlgitai. Analog and RF Equipment'Circuit Design
* Hardware and Software , ,
/WCDOMVftl OOUOLAS
Ar> eq-.;<*l opportunity employer 
U S Cit tsen ship < i ;ju  rec
cordirngt aom hswg ,
Vickers, Jim Green, Ross Serin, John 
Bobeck, Jeff Muller, John Marow, Alan 
Todtenkopf, Lee Stipek, John Scotto, Mark 
Hagerty, Joe Szod, Steve Ny, Phil Ebbert, 
Gary Polaski, and Phil Nussbaum.
KAPPA SIGMA: 18 pledges, no names 
available.
PHI KAPPA THETA: (12) George Mazzafero, Bob Bickerstaff, Chris Leech, Jim 
Stevenson, Ed Martin, R.L. Cook, Tony 
Sargent, Bill Heintz, John Keffer, David 
Erb, and Dave Smith.
PI KAPPA ALPHA: (16) Ira Androphy, 
Mark Brado, Eric Briner, Greg Cheatham, 
Robin Esterson, Jeff Frumpkin, Greg Goetchies, Dave Goldman, Mike Havrilla, Jeff 
Kreulin, Dave Lee, Bob Marcoux, Joe 
Steiner, Greg Valley, Tom Wickham, and 
Rick Neff.
PI LAMBDA PHI: (11) Craig Denny, 
Adam Sclafani, Warren Saltzman, Norbert 
Schindler, John Lau, Dave Karbowski, Pete 
Neergaard, Rich Spear, Greg Borek, Russ 
Long, and Dan Smith.
SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON: (27) Bob
Alpert, Kevin Connelly, Joe DeFelice, 
Lothar Eaton, John Feins, Rich Erraves, 
Brad Harkavy, Scott Hines, Bob Hollis, 
Mike Hsu, Kip Kienstra, Mike Lacey, Jeff 
Lynn, Jake Mackiewicz, Curt McAdams, Ed 
Miles, Rich Oppenheimer, Clayton Osbon, 
Joe Pecki, Dave Pollack, Andy Rolfes, Todd 
Rudley, Willie Rueda, Keith Uher, Danny 
Urban, John Van Sack, and Pierre Wolff.
Johnson, Jeffrey Kenausis, Richard KoochSchonhom, Jay Seletz, Jeffrey Soller, David
agian, Wendell Lee, Edward Miller, Rory Solomon, Michael Sussman, Carsten
Moore, John Mrofck, Anthony MhlenThode, Edward Welsh, Robert Yaffe, and
kamp, Phil Pierre, Panos Psycharis, Jeremv Howell Yee
Brothers and Friends of Pi Lambda Phi welcomed new pledges last week.
SIGMA NU: Eight pledges, no 
available.
THETA XI: (24) Thomas Atkinson, 
Steffen Bartschat, Fred Bennett, Russell 
Beers, Alan Biddison, Neil Bussiere, 
glas Caldwell, Patrick Campbell, Paul 
Chren, Stephen Fenstermaker, Michael 
Foglia, Mark Garrity, Terence Joyce, Robert 
Kim, John Legelis, Kai Cho Lee, Mark Perisich, Dennis Quinn, Paul Russo, Mark 
Sander, Faramarz Shaikh, Michael Smith, 
Paul Spillane and John Waugaman.
ZETA BETA TAU: (32) James Anderson, 
Stephen Banchke, David Bloom, Jon Blumenfeld, Charles Bokman, Darin Camey, 
Daniel Corbett, Anthony Desmond, Kevin 
Finnegan, Grant Franjione, David Gold
stein, Jonathan Harris, Eric Jedd, Eben

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Beating the system: How to Xerox output
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
If you ever manage to get to a terminal 
and figure out how to get something into 
the system, you might wonder how to get 
something out of it that you can take home 
with you to put on the wall.
If youve EMACSed a letter, report or 
story, checked it out with SPELL, and run it 
through SCRIBE, youre obviously going to 
want to print it out somewhere. Make a 
hard-copy they say in computerese. Here, 
the system is of little help in giving instruc
tions on how-to-do-it.
You have few choices for output devi
ces, or where you can get the thing printed, 
and there are several issues to consider in 
choosing one. For instance, how will the 
paper look? How big will the paper be? 
How good will the printing be? How soon 
can you get it? How sure are you of ever 
getting it?
There used to be a bunch of DECWriters 
in the Wean Hall Public Terminal Room. 
DECWriters were hard-copy terminals, 
you typed on to paper and the computer 
typed back at you (can you imagine telling 
your grandchildren this?) They were slow, 
noisy and you couldnt use EMACS on them 
very well. CRTs are just more fun, and now 
most of the DECWriters are collecting dust 
somewhere. Nobody misses them much 
except when you absolutely, positively have 
to have a hard-copy and have it now.
If none of the following printers are work
ing, you may have to resort to cranking up 
one of the few remaining DECWriters in 
j Wean Hall. Luckily, its unlikely that youll
* ever have to resort to anything so low.
Not much more than a step above the 
DECWriter in preference are the various 
Line Printers around campus. These are fas
ter than the DECWriters, and can make your 
I text look a litde better if youve run it 
| through SCRIBE using /device:lpt when 
you tell SCRIBE what file to process. It uses
 similar paper to the old DECWriters, that 
i large perforated stuff that most people correctly associate with a computer print
out. Even trimmed, Line Printer paper 
looks pretty shoddy.
Recent changes in the system have made it 
possible for you to print on any TOPS Line 
Printer from most TOPS systems. Just type 
Print file. nam/unit:HSS or MMP or CIT 
or USERB or PLPT.
The HSS Line Printer is in Baker Hall 
239, the MMP Line Printer is in Margaret 
Morrison Plaza Terminal Room, USERB 
(and USERD) line Printers are in Wean 
Halls Public Terminal Room and the 
PLPT Line Printer is on the third floor of 
Wean. Special forms, like mailing labels, are 
printed on PLPTA, also on the third floor. 
If you dont know where the CIT terminal
room is, forget it. Its impossible to describe 
getting through the bowels of Hammerschlag Hall.
Before CMU started using, or typing to 
use, the Xerox X9700, a form called Man
ual was often printed on the Machine 
Rooms PLPT. Much nicer paper. Today, 
you can use Manual form (so-called 
because its easily trimmed to 8)4 x 11) on a 
Diablo terminal and, with the help of 
SCRIBE (say /device:diablo after typing 
the file name in), get fairly presentable 
output.
Few Diablos are sull in use, however, as 
they are tricky to maintain, and almost 
made obsolete by the Xerox X9700. The 
GSIA terminal room has a couple set up and
Kaplan's test-taking techniques
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Did you study for the SAT?
Students can, and should prepare for 
standardized tests, says Stanley Kaplan. 
Thats a sign of motivation. He main
tains, too, that cramming ~ trying to learn 
an impossible amount of material in an 
impossibly short amount of time -- is inef
fective. The alternative he suggests is a 
long-range course of study; one that is, in 
effect, education.
Believing that he had developed the 
right way to prepare for standardized tests, 
Mr. Kaplan established the Stanley H. 
Kaplan Educational Center in 1938. With 
locations in 112 cities, the Center claims to 
prepare students for practically every major 
entrance and licensing exam through indepth, organized review.
Some of the tests students can prepare for 
at a Kaplan Educational Center are the 
SAT, ACT, GRE, MCAT, LSAT, GMAT, 
TOEFL, VQE, ECFMG, and FLEX. 
Although the length (usually eight to ten 
weeks) and the price (from $350 for the SAT 
to $1100 for the ECFMG) of each course 
differ somewhat, the approach is the same.
Designed to strengthen the grasp of key 
concepts, impiove test-taking techniques, 
and increase confidence, the program has
three main features: live class sessions, con
sisting of specially developed lectures, tests, 
and discussions of these tests; audio tape 
reinforcement, which enables the student to 
re-experience and reinforce what (he) has 
previously learned; and copyrighted homestudy materials, which are written by 
Kaplan research specialists and encapsu
late years of study covered in high school, 
college, and professional schools. Ruth 
Suttin, administrator at the Kaplan Center
photo by Bob Fishel
Stanley Kaplan
in Pittsburgh, emphasizes that Mr. 
Kaplans tapes are what have proven espe
cially effective.
Certain groups and individuals argue 
that a student cannot be coached for tests 
such as the SAT. If, as the Educational Test
ing Center (ETS) maintains, the SAT is a 
measure of lifelong ability, how can one 
prepare for it in a few weeks?
Mr. Kaplan, who holds a Master of 
Science in Education, commented, We 
improve on the students background. Our 
program. . .sharpens the mathematical and 
verbal skills needed for the exam and for 
success at the college level. He feels that 
Standard Assessment Test might be a bet
ter title than Scholastic Aptitude Test 
Referring to the plan of the National Associ
ation of Secondary School Principals to 
incorporate SAT preparation into the tradi
tional high school curriculum, Mr. Kaplan 
added that he is glad to see that such pro
grams are being introduced into the 
schools.
What about preparation for graduate 
school admissions tests? It is important for 
a student to have taken the classes required, 
said Kaplan. Our job is to help bring back 
knowledge. . .acquired throughout (ones) 
academic career. The program for the 
GRE, for example, includes work with read
ing comprehension, analogies, problem 
solving, and logical reasoning.
cordirngt or hswg ,e
if youre nice theyll let you use them on 
occasion.
Which leaves us with the output-deviceof 
choice, the Xerox X9700 printer. When this 
printer works, it can be great. Unfortu
nately, the past month has ben one of unreli
ability and major headaches. Next weeks 
column will really bitch on this issue.
Most erf your print option (or switches) 
are directed at the X9700. Not only does 
SCRIBE take advantage of this laserprinters many capabilities that allow different 
type-faces, large fonts and other tricky stuff, 
but you can choose some other options.
Like a kid in a candy store, deciding what 
switches to use is sometimes more diffi
cult than actually wTiting the paper. Do you 
want it printed in PORTRAIT, that is, with 
the paper oriented 8/2 by 11 instead of 11 by 
m (LANDSCAPE)? Thats an X9700 fea
ture. As is printing on BOTH sides of a page 
(DUPLEX: YES) or just one side 
(DUPLEX:NO). Drilled, 3-ring-binderstyle paper and no-holes paper (PAPERTYPE:WHITE) are also available.
If youre not up to making such heavy 
decisions, you can let the system make up 
your mind for you. If you just logged-in and 
typed Print file.nam, certain options would 
automatically be specified for you. These are 
called SYSTEM-DEFAULTS, and later 
this semester youll read about changing 
them for yourself. Right now, however, you 
can override them by using those things in 
parentheses above. These switches, are 
put in your Print statement like this:
Print file.nam/DUPLEX:no/PORTRAIT. You dont have to say/UNIT:xerox cause thats the System-Default. With 
the above command, the paper called file
.nam would be on paper without holes 
(drilled paper is the default), verticallyoriented (LANDSCAPE, or horizontallyoriented is the default), printed on only one 
side of the paper (both sides printed is the 
default) and would not be stapled (usually, 
the pages are stapled together).
There is a price to pay for not using the 
System-defaults; itll take longer to get your 
print-out if you DONT use NORMAL 
paper with holes and print on BOTH sides. 
On the other hand, of late, you never know' 
when or if youll ever see your print-out 
from the Xerox, so you might as well order it 
the way you want it.
Innovation 
in Robotics
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
There is a very prestigious institute here at 
Camegie-Mellon which is breaking down 
the barriers in its field.
CMU shares its eminence in this field 
with the likes of MIT and Stanford.
5 million dollars a year in funding is pro
vided by Westinghouse, Digital Equipment 
Corporation, TRW, and Siemans (a West 
German firm with a U.S. subsidiary), contri
buting to 40% of total funding. The U.S. 
government supplies the remaining 60%.
CMUs computer science, electrical and 
mechanical engineering departments are 
staffed with 23 erf the Ph.D's involved with 
the institute, and thats not including 
approximately 60 more grad students, tech
nicians, and masters-level people who con
tribute a portion of their time.
Formed in December erf 1979, the Robot
ics Institute is presently working on a robot 
which will, for example, be able to detect, by 
sonar, a crack in a piece of machinery which 
it has been programmed to weld. Dr. Fredercoaadirogt or hswg ,e

---------------------------------------------------

fe
a
/ / ! ! / !f T\
im
29fS:uS5 pe
BasdgnR 3gst
BRstlN Driw'd " b'g WihN
5orrig :iRNsh
Pimml Ri
Wgdga boN'
B-52S
More Acts To Be Announced
29fS:uS5 py
ugsc' uolN 
Oagd's IasrRir 
.HnggTg 
.dscl LsddiNsF 
.ggdga 3sqiN 
boodN " b'g :sldsRN 
uRsc j'nan
29fS:uS5 p8
5ic PsmgN 
b'g RsN' 
Pimml ungdd 
SrwRiN' ugsd 
uo77l " b'g :itridgN 
JgRRoF :sr
(Days of appearance subject to change)
I95 .WSOL b5OfSL WODOBS. O23 bDSb 2I95:Ob92 OLL J9j5 L9OL 
b5OfSL OBS2b 95 bGS 2SO5S.b PO:OO b9j5.b u9O53 2j:uS50 
:92bSB9 I5SSW95b O:W.bS. OfOLOuLS 4bG W595 O55O2BS:S2bE
Call Toll Free Sunburst Holidays 1-800-223-1277 New York Residents Call 212-942-7500
TICKETS ALSO AVAILABLE AT ANY TICKETRON OUTLET IN THE CONTINENTAL 
U.S. AND CANADA AND BASS TICKET OUTLETS IN SOUTH FLORIDA.
$100 US (Includes all 3 nights) suBjfci iu iocai siRvici chargi

---------------------------------------------------

October 12,1982The TartanPage 15
Robotics is modifying robots' behavior
(cordirngt aom hswg ,k
lick Prince of the mechanical engineering 
[department is in charge of this project. 
I According to David Lewin, Director of 
Science and Technology Information and 
[essentially the spokesman for the goings-on 
jin CIT, MCS, and Robotics, this type of 
[robot is smart. They are being given
handle information and react to it in some 
ways that humans can, says Lewin.
The robots of today are not yet capable of 
behavior modification. From their article, 
Industrial Robots on the Line, which 
appeared in Technology Review, Professor 
Robert Ayres and lecturer Steve Miller 
explain that factory robots "cannot react to
luman senses such as sight and touch so 
it they will be able to modify their behav
ior appropriately, if need be.
In addition to sensing, artificial intelli
gence plays a large role in the robots smartless. The idea is to give them ways to
unforeseen circumstances and changing 
environments, nor can they improve perfor
mance based on prior experience. As a 
result, robots today are not yet able to detect 
a crack when they are performing a repeti
tive task such as spot welding.
qua/ rights for Blacks
Jy DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
I hope you didnt go crazy waiting for the 
ext installment of this column, which, due 
|o unforseen circumstances, was bumped 
*1 rom last issue, along with the entire Feaiures section. Actually, you probably didnt 
B lotice its absence, but I like to believe otherIvise if only to please my ego.
I 20 YEARS AGO: Oct. 10, 1962 
| There are a whole lot of letters in this issue 
I ealing with a petition which had circulated 
I round Carnegie Tech criticizing people 
I v'ho participated in a demonstration at the 
Jniversity of Mississippi protesting the 
Idmission of the first black student. One 
iter says he is not trying to support segreition, but says that the demonstration... 
|as simply the result of an innocent endea|or of the part of a young Negro man to 
btain higher education. It goes deeper than 
lis. It is the result of a powerful organizafon, the National Association for the 
Ivancement erf Colored People, arousing... 
ie Negro race. . .to assert themselves. More 
Jften than not this assertion is not directed 
lainly at gaining more rights for Negroes, 
|ut at proving to the Caucasian that the 
egro is his equal. The writer states that, 
rith all the fine colleges admitting blacks, it 
unlikely that someone would want to get 
ito the University of Mississippi so much 
to cause all that trouble.
apian now offering 
peed reading course
Nrdirngt aom hswg ,k
A new program in speed reading is now 
eing offered by the Stanley Kaplan Educa|onal Center. The course is designed to 
Jelp todays student, professional or busi
ness person keep up with the ever increasing 
emands of reading, absorbing and retain1g information.
In Pittsburgh, the Stanley Kaplan EducaJn Writer is located in the Essex House on 
le comer of Negley and Baum.
An editorial on the upcoming Congres
sional election mentions that one Represen
tative recendy said that imports from Japan 
should be almost eliminated; however, it is 
stated that Japan actually bought over $600 
million more from us than we bought from 
them.
That was before the age of Sony, Toyota, 
and steel.
40 YEARS AGO: Oct. 6, 1942 
On September 23, President Doherty 
made official appointments to the CIT War 
Committee... whose duties are to studv and 
make recommendations to the administra
tion regarding matters relating to defense 
activities on the campus, and to carry out 
any specific assignments that may be from 
time to time delegated to it.
The theme of this years Committee will 
be similar to last years, in that its aims are: 1) 
Protection of persons from aerial attacks; 2) 
The development of civilian morals; and 3) 
Cooperation with the Armed Forces on the 
matters of civilian defense.
50 YEARS AGO: Oct. 11, 1932 
Two graduate students in the Depart
ment of Civil Engineering, Lieutenant 
Robert E. Cron, Jr., West Point 30 and 
Carnegie 32, and Stephen Malevich, Carne
gie 32, will be candidates for the first master 
of science degrees conferred by this depart
ment in Carnegie day school history, Prof. 
F. M. McCullough, head of the department, 
has announced. They expect to receive their 
degrees at the June commencement 
exercises.
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
Basically, robots that have been coming 
into use in the past 10 to 15 years are dumb; 
they do the same things over and over, like 
welding in an automobile assembly line, 
says Lewin. If anything goes wrong, they 
will still go through all the motions, 
whether or not its productive.
There are certain things that humans do 
very well without thinking at all about what 
were doing, like identifying something and 
picking it up. Through a computer vision 
system, robots can identify an objects shape.
For instance, a robot can recognize a pen 
lying on its side but when the pen is bal
anced in a standing position, it looks differ
ent to the robot. The experts in Robotics are 
working on ways to teach the robot to knock 
the pen down so the object will appear 
recognizable.
In this decision making aspect of artificial 
intelligence (AI), the communication is 
directed at the robot, which, for industrial 
purposes, is a mechanical arm, not R2D2. A 
computer and an inspection station are 
responsible for directing the communica
tion. The inspection station acts as a sensor 
for the robot in much the same way that our 
nervous system serves us. Or, put another 
way, the inspection station could be thought 
of as a camera gathering information to feed 
the robot.
In a mobile robot, the body and sensors 
are all together in the unit. If the computer 
(the brain) is small enough, the robot could 
house that, too. Otherwise, the computer is 
detached from the robot and operated from a 
distance. This communication can be 
stretched from coast to coast. What Lewin 
describes as distributed robots, theoreti
cally there could be robots in Los Angeles 
and New York operating via a computer in
Chicago.
With such vast progress evolving in a rela
tively short period of time, one cannot help 
but wonder if robots will be displacing most 
of the blue collar workers.
There will be changes, but its not clear 
whether there will be displacement or a loss 
of jobs, says Lewin. The changes may be 
natural through attrition (retirement, 
death), but as long as there is a growing 
situation, companies wont need to lay off 
their workers.
How is it, then, that a country like Japan 
has forged ahead in robotics without 
appearing to have disturbed the job market?
Dr. Leonard Lynn, a professor in the 
social science department at CMU who had 
lived in Japan at various times for a total of 
seven years, provides some interesting 
answers.
Japan was concerned about a labor shor
tage in 1970, and it was looking for a solu
tion, offers Lynn. Robotics was a nice 
substitute for skilled labor.
Japan also manages public policy very 
well. For example, a robot leasing company 
leases robots for just a few hundred dollars, 
making robots extremely accessible to pub
lic and private sectors. The great incentive 
for big business to buy a robot is the high 
return on the investment. In addition, 
Japans interest rates are about half of the 
U.S. rates; whats more, our government 
doesnt subsidize any leasing. As a whole, 
Japan is more interested in helping the 
country as a unit.
Another pertinent reason as to why robots 
havent affected job losses is because Japan 
guarantees lifetime employment to onethird of its male work force. This benefit
cordirngt or hswg ,y
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order 2 column 
inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submission 
charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for I -20 words, $4.00 for 20-50 words, $8.00 for more 
than 50 words.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
ANNOUNCEMENTS & EVENTS
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Deadline: Friday before publication at 5:00 P.M.
bca bat8ma ng9caoitncgf contact Business Manager Louise Crocoll
Business hours: Tuesday 4:30-6:00 p.m.
Thursday 4:00-5:00 p.m.
Address: Box 17 Schenley Park/Skibo 50 & 52 
Phone: 578-2111
24 hour answering machine: 578-2113

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 12, 1982
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION AIDS
NAVIGATION 
AND GUIDANCE
Acormghitncg 9ca smdiyms sa, sioi,m
ELECTRONIC
COUNTERMEASURESELECTRONICS
PASSIVE 
SENSOR SYSTEMS
AIRCRAFT DIVISION Aircraft research, design, development, and manufacturing.ELECTRONICS DIVISION Navigation and Guidance Systems, Digital Computers and Information Processing Systems.
ELECTROMECHANICAL DIVISION Advanced electronic/electro-optical sensor systems.
DEFENSE SYSTEMS DIVISION Strategic and tactical electronic countermeasures systems.
The next advancement 
could be yours!
At Northrop, people and their ideas make 
advanced technology work. 
It works because we match peoples interests 
with our needs in project teams, where indivi
dual responsibility and development potential 
are greatest. 
If your professional interest is listed below, we 
would like to discuss the different career paths 
available at Northrop.
 AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING
 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
 MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING
 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING  PHYSICS
 BUSINESS  COMPUTER SCIENCE
 MATHEMATICS  MATERIALS SCIENCE
Our representative would like to discuss your 
interests and how they may lead to a career 
with Northrop. 
Contact your Placement Office to arrange your 
interview, or write to: 
College Relations 
Northrop Corporation, 
1800 Century Park East, Los Angeles, CA 90067
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HU.S. Citizenship RequiredNORTHROP
People making advanced technology work.
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffumter
Compensation for Delayed Diseases 
from Exposure to Chemicals and Drugs is 
an issue currendy being examined by stu
dents from the Department of Engineering 
and Public Policy, the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs, and the Department of Social 
Sciences. The objective of the semes
ter, said Allen Hughes, one of the manag
ers of the project, are to critique the 
compensation system, forecast potential 
problems, and recommend policy direc
tion. On Thursday, October 7, the group 
presented data that it has gathered to an 
audience of students, faculty, and represen
tatives from government and industry.
Diane Waite, senior, Chemical Engineering/EEP, presented a rationale for studying 
latent diseases: A majority of the (industrial 
diseases reported per year) are a result of 
chemical exposure. Presently, there are 
numerous litigation cases in the courts 
involving latent diseases, (and this number
may be expected to rise).
She continued with a discussion of dis
ease causing chemicals which pose a threat 
of litigation, including asbestos, DES, 
Agent Orange, silica dust, bensene, and thal
idomide. In conclusion, Waite explained 
that the students examination of causal lin
kages between chemicals and diseases will 
include looking at the symptoms and effects, 
the latency period, and the synergistic effects 
and epidemiological studies for variour 
chemicals.
An overview of workers compensation 
was presented by Michael Heaney, junior, 
Chemical Engineering/EPP. He explained 
that Workers compensation is based on a 
compromise between labor and manage
ment. Employers assume liability for all 
work-related injuries regardless of fault in 
return for the workers agreement not to 
sue. He fit the concept of workers concep
tion into the countrys overall wage-loss sys
tem, and spoke of some of the problems that
RESEARCH
workers compensation has in handling 
delayed disease.
Heaney concluded his discussion with 
the groups plans for the future: a more 
detailed look at workers compensation... to 
determine why compensation for delayed 
diseases does not go smoothly, a forecast of
upcoming trends in the system based on 
statistical data from past years, and a look at 
how other forms of compensation, such as 
union benefits and Social Security, work. 
Chip OConnor, senior, Electrical Engi
neering/EPP, discussed litigation revolv^ 
cordirngt or hswg p8
Japanese robots hurt small business
cordirngt aom hswg ,e
excludes women and small shop 
entrepreneurs.
However, Japan is concerned with its 
small manufacturing sector. The productiv
ity is very small here; putting robots there 
will really increase productivity.
Lynn finds that the most striking feature 
of Japans success with robotics lies in its 
diversity of firms that are building the 
robots. The U.S. has a few major industries 
headlining the countrys production of 
robots, such as Unimation and Milicron, 
which produce two-thirds of Americas
robots.
Japan is more user-oriented, according to 
Dr. Lynn. The robots are geared for more 
finely-tuned specific jobs; whereas, the U.S. 
employs a more general purpose robot.
Japans uncanny knack for exporting is 
threatening not only the American automo
bile industry but the robot industry, as well. 
Lynn says that out of 3500 robots installed in 
America, 500 are imported; a little less than 
half of these are from Japan. These figures 
are nothing to sneeze at, and, Lynn says that 
by 1984 Japan expects to be exporting 
approximately 20% of its robots.
VENTURA DIVISION Remotely piloted vehicles, aerial training targets, aircraft subassemblies.
WILCOX ELECTRIC, INC. Instrument landRESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER ing systems and ground-based navigation Advanced technology research programs.PRECISION PRODUCTS DIVISION Gyroscopes, accelerometers, inertial guidance and control systems.

---------------------------------------------------

Hypnotist Weber has fun with imagination
arof 7agiga
rtan StaffxvrUer
One evening last week, nine beings took a 
ane ride, went fishing, bet at the horse 
-es, and pigged out on their favorite flavor 
ice cream. Among this ensemble were 
atuies such as Pac-Man, a Martian, one 
1 named Shredded Wheat, and another 
th eleven fingers.
When and where did this cosmic journey 
:e place? In the minds of nine CMU stu
nts as part of hypnotist Ken Webers 
nd-boggling act, Wednesday, October 6, 
Skibo Ballroom.
The most interesting part of the human 
dy, claims Weber, Playboys Entertainer 
the Year, is the mind, most people use 
ly a very small portion of their mind, but 
training you can increase that 
city.
Veber certainly has had training, as evired by the correct results of two mindding demonstration, the first involving 
ying-cards, the second with personal 
riences of selected members of the 
ience. However, he did hint that he uses 
Jtain tricks of the trade to enhance his 
f|. Weber pointed out that he makes no 
ms in regard to psychic ability, and that 
only purpose is to put on a show and to 
fun. ,
mewhat belying those words, though, 
is background. After becoming a certihypnotist at UCLA in California, he 
t twelve years in New York City, using 
nosis to help people lose weight, quit
king, increase their power of concentraand memory, and improve their sexual 
ctioning.
evertheless, Weber did devote the balof his performance to having fun with 
notism. By enabling the nine volunteers
Four subjects enjoy the hypnotic magic erf Ken Weber last Wednesday night in the Ballroom.
piuiu uy L/avt auu
to convince themselves that they actually 
became another, ridiculous character, or 
experienced changes in temperature or an 
electric shock, or that they had eleven fin
gers. Weber effectively demonstrated the 
humorous potential of hypnosis. One par
ticular scene had one fellow, convinced he 
was a Martian, jabbering gobbledygook, 
while another guy interpreted it into 
English.
Can someone under hypnosis be made to 
do something they dont want to do? No, 
says Weber, who want to dispel that com
mon myth about hypnosis, along with the 
mystical aura that often surrounds it. He 
feels hypnosis is equivalent to 2-3 hours of 
sleep, although it cant replace sleep.
Then if hypnosis isnt sleep, what is it? 
Basically, all hypnosis is, is relaxation 
coupled with the power of suggestion, 
Weber explains. Almost everyone can be 
hypnotized, given an effective rapport 
between hypnotist and subject. The best 
subjects are high school and college stu
dents agewise. Good imagination and con
centration help, too.
However, as Weber told the most suscepti
ble of the volunteer group, The ability to 
go very far under is a gift. Use it.
After giving some self-hypnosis tips to 
them and the entire audience, Weber ended 
the show by prompting the volunteers with 
a post-hypnotic cue. They all jumped out of 
their seats and jubilantly yelled, Sock it to 
me, Ken!
RIVER CITY BRASS BAND
PRESENTS
Mcsti
Featuring AcGO5fSJ WGLLW.)0
 . the Paganini of the tubaNewsweek
WEB CITY BRASS I
ROBERT BERNAT. Muse Director
COME HEAR the stirring music of 
Germany, Austria and Switzerland!
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10 8:30 P.M
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
W5S.V K,,z KvEv-z KyEy-z 9jbLSb.V DsnmsrrxN 3oFrdoFr
IsmiRl .gcdiorV OtnRd6KUEU-z 'iRtCKpEpWidd .dntgrd jrior
PHONE: 322-6821 GROUP DISCOUNTS A VAILABLE
Broker tells stock tips
By BOB FISHEL
Tartan Staffxvriter
The Investment Club was in full swing 
Thursday night as Richard Gaspirini, the 
clubs stock broker, discussed the fine art of 
investing. Gaspirini works for the firm of 
Butcher and Singer and is one of the many 
guest speakers the club offers its members.
Gaspirini captured everyones attention 
by getting straight to the heart of investing. 
The bottom line, he said, is that people 
invest to make money. Investments are no 
secret; in fact, at the end of December, 1981, 
$7 trillion was tied up in United States 
stocks and bonds. That is approximately 
one half of Americas total revenue.
Besides making money, people invest for 
pure enjoyment. Its exciting laying money 
on the line and feeling like youre part of the 
American Corporate System, Gaspirini said.
So you want to invest, but dont know 
where to begin? Your choices are numerous. 
There are common stocks, preferred stocks, 
mutual funds, options, limited partner
ships, commodities^nd money market cer
tificates. The Investment Club will explore 
many of these areas.
For a person with little knowledge in the 
investment field, Gaspirini suggests seeking 
the aid of a stock broker. Brokerage firms 
can provide people with advice, informa
tion, execution the firm will make all the 
purchases for a client, and safekeeping of 
securities the firm will keep all stocks and 
bonds in a depository trust fund for those 
clients who do not wish to be bothered with 
the paper work.
Gaspirini emphasized the common stock 
market because it is practical for people just 
starting in the investment field. Picking 
your stock is the first step and there are two 
ways to tackle this problem. The first is 
through fundamental analysis whereby the 
bask aspects of a company are analyzed.
Such things as the companys earnings, 
assets, liabilities, sales, various ratios, 
income statements, and management tech
niques are explored. This information is 
then compared to a standard, usually the 
industry', to make a decision. Benjamin Gra
hams The Intelligent Investor gives greater 
detail on fundamental analysis.
The technical analysis, on the other hand, 
only considers how the stock market and the 
individual stock is trading. It asks questions 
such as: What is the stock price at? What 
price should it be bought at? What price will 
the stock reach and how does this correlate 
with the market as a whole? No one knows if 
the fundamental or technical analysis 
method is better so Gaspirini recommends 
combining both techniques.
The Investment dub is going to devote 
future meetings to discuss each method in 
great detail. Butcher 8c Singer will provide 
account excutives to lecture at these sessions.
The last topic Gaspirini discussed was the 
tax advantages in the stock market. This is 
shown through capital gains selling 
stocks at a profit. There are short term 
investments (less than one year) and long 
term investments (greater than one year). 
For a short term investment taxes have to be 
paid on 100% erf the profit. In the long term, 
however, taxes are only paid on 40% of the 
profits. On the loss side, an investor can 
deduct the total loss off his gross income in 
the short run, but only 50% in the long run. 
In either case, however, $6,000 is the maxi
mum deduction. If an investor loses more 
than $6,000, such as $10,000, he can deduct 
$6,000 the first year and $4,000 the second 
year.
At the end erf Gaspirinis lecture, he 
reminded members erf future speakers dis
cussing the two ways to analyze common 
stock. The Investment club's next speaker is 
on Thursday October 21.
October 12, 1982The TartanPage 17

---------------------------------------------------

TECHNICALOPPORTUNITIESCONFERENCE
Thursday,: October 14. from 11am to 5pm 
in the Ski bo Ballroom.
? Corning Glass Works
? Schlumberger
? Procter & Gamble
? GTE Service Corp.
? Lawrence - Livermore
? ALCOA
? Koppers
? Mead Corp.
... and more.
Students from all academic disciplines are 
invited to come and talk freely and informally 
with the company representatives.
Sponsored by 
The Society of Women Engineers
and the 
C-MU IEEE Student Branch
Featuring ...
? IBM
? Western Electric Co.
? Chevrolet
? General Electric
? Hewlett-Packard
? Bell Labs
? Polaroid
? DEC

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Jonathan Feroce 
lonely stage reflects the late-night scenario at CMUs Studio Theatre.
advisor.
and touch Austrian festival
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
On September 27, several CMU faculty 
members, students, and alumni participated 
in a special program for the Bruckner Festi
val in Linz, Austria.
The program, part of the Ars Electrnica 
program, was called The World in 
Twenty-Four Hours. For the event, video 
artists from around the world sent their art
work, via telecommunications, to Linz.
The CMU artists participating were: 
Bruce Breland, professor of Video in the Art 
Department and art director for this project; 
Herb Coshak, one of Brelands students; 
Diane Samuels, a CMU faculty member; 
Jim Kocher, who recently graduated as 
CMUs first Video major; and Harry Hol
land, CMU art professor. They were joined 
by Cindy Snodgrass, a local sculptor.
The artists had earlier taped their own 
video artworks. Individual frames were then 
frozen from the pieces, and were fed into a 
machine called the Robot Telecommunica
tions Transciever, which converted the pic
tures into sounds. The digitalized sounds 
were sent over the telephone to Linz, where 
they were turned back into pictures. The 
process is known as slow-scanning.
The Linz festival also recieved wTork from 
Germany, Great Britain, Toronto, Van
couver, MIT, San Francisco, Hawaii, Syd
ney, Barcelona, and India. Besides being 
shown at the festival, the slow-scan images
tudio Theatre is worth discovering
>y KATY BONELLO
"artan Staffwriter 
like most other freshmen, at the beginjng of the semester I had no idea where the 
tudio Theater was or what went on inside, 
was (and I remain) impressed that CMU 
as the best drama department in the 
lation, but I had no particular desire to 
ivestigate all of the things going on in and 
round the place.
I Then, as I sat at the Tartan meeting oneE
^^nday night I decided to do something 
ut my dramatic ignorance and accept the 
dio Theater story as it was being offered. 
Hlere goes. . . .
The Studio Theaters physical structure is 
*> unimpressive little brown building 
behind the College of Fine Arts. To describe 
it unimpressiveness I need only state that I 
Had never noticed it before, and probably 
Houldnt have yet if I hadnt been writing 
about it. However, whats going on inside 
Hie building is worth taking note of.
I The Studio Theater has been traditionHly used as a medium for MFA projects. It is 
|ere that graduate school directors put on 
lays, receiving full production support, 
ost of these plays have been previously 
oduced, but any play is allowed with the 
proval of the graduate students teacher or
In addition, seniors in the directing 
option produce their senior project in the 
Theater, without a budget. One act plays are 
frequently directed in the Studio Theater by 
newer members of the directing option. Mel 
Shapiro, head of the drama department, is 
the artistic producer for Studio Theater, and 
Jerold Gray, a new CMU faculty member, is 
the technical director.
Over the summer the Theater became the 
home of the Metro Theater Company, a 
professional theatrical company. Metro 
Theater, described as Pittsburghs chamber 
theater company, is headed by David Ball, 
another CMU faculty member. Jerold Gray 
commented that, We hope that their home 
continues to be there and that they thrive.
Students may wish to see Macbeth, 
directed by graduate student Michael Ladenson, today at the Studio Theater. There 
are two shows today, one at 4:30 and one at 
8:00. The production continues tomorrow 
at 4:30.
The next show in the Theater will be a 
one act play at 4:30 on Friday, October 15. 
The next one act is November 2 at 4:30. In 
addition, from December 6-8, the Theater is 
hosting a production of Harold Pinters
Birthday Party. In the spring about five orig
inal plays by CMU playwriting students 
will be put on in the Studio Theater. Admis
sion to all Studio Theater plays is free with 
CMU ID.
Some other on-campus drama will be 
playing in the Kresge Theater soon. For the 
Mainstage plays, the production course stu
dents are all either in the cast, or on run or 
stage crew. Front Page is running from 
October 14-25, and Ghost Sonata will be 
playing from November 11 -20. Admission is 
charged.
were also sent via cable to individual homes 
in Linz.
The festival was also to have included a 
transmission of artwork via computer gra
phics, in which Harry Holland was sup
posed to have participated. The Austrians 
had trouble getting the computer hardware 
together, however, so Breland invited Hol
land to show his work via slowscan.
To do this, he taped photographs erf Hol
lands work, Stiata Variants, which had 
appeared in FOCUS, CMUs faculty news
paper, and sent them over the wire.
Though the group was made up mostly 
of CMU artists, and the editing was done at 
CMU, some of the work had to be done at 
Warner Cables Community Access Studio, 
and the broadcast was made from Atlantic 
Teleproductions Studio in Pittsburgh. The 
broadcast will soon be shown over Warner 
Cable.
Breland was very pleased with the results. 
The reception in Linz was picture perfect. 
Also, the Pittsburgh group, which calls 
itself Gekko, has made many contacts with 
other groups around the world.
He is also enthusiastic about the future of 
video art. As it came out of the slow-scan, it 
had a very unique look, Breland says, this 
art is impressionistic, graphic, and elec
tronic  a totally new art form. Its sort of 
21st-Century.
The danger, he feels, is not to get tied up 
in all of the new technology. Its nice to 
deal with the forms of art, as John Cage does 
in music. But Im more interested in the 
content. I want us to be purveyors of ideas.
He also thinks that CMU has a great 
opportunity to be on the leading edge of the 
new video art form.
With a litde support, and working with 
the Warner Cable system that exists now, 
Pittsburgh could become the video art capi
tal. And here at CMU, we have a leg up on 
everybody. Were state of art the here.
The problem lies in gaining understand
ing. Some faculty members in the Art 
department are still debating whether video 
should even be considered an art form. 
Though CMU is willing to experiment 
with computer graphics, video is getting less 
cordirngt or hswg p,
2gF Y'omgY o :gdao b'gsdag omhsrlLab brings "Lenny" to life
:-tia .iah: htanUmh eikU it Aul
LESLEY BRUNKER
:rfan Staffivriier 
S Star Wars, the top money-making film of 
Iff time, played on campus last Thursday, 
jHlday> and Saturday nights. The movie, 
'^ning originally little-knowns Mark 
Vamill, Carrie Fisher, and Harrison Ford 
w)ngside the incomparable Sir Alec Guiss, has grossed well over 290 million dol
t's since its 1977 release.
BThe first of the great escapist movies, Star 
ars begat such flicks as Battlestar Galac|a (a Canadian movie, not the TV series), 
sh Gordon, Star Trek: The Motion Picre> Outland, Alien, and, most recently,
Tron, and sequels The Empire Strikes Back 
and soon to be released (early in 1983) 
Revenge of the Jedi.
Several factors setting Star Wars apart 
from its successors include superb special 
effects, realistic characters, and complete 
consistency within all elements of the 
movie.
Because one can become so caught up in 
it, the picture is perfect fora highly competi
tive college campus. Lets face it  two 
hours of relaxation does everyone some 
good. And as midterm is approaching and 
homework getting thick, let us all hope the 
force is with us.
By L. G. TROVATO
Tartan Staffwriter
Just when I thought the Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre had lost all their artistic 
goals, after their recent production of El 
Grande De Coca-Cola, they have come up 
with a starding and exciting 
production of Julian Barrys 
Lenny, about the life of 
Lenny Bruce. Good for them. 
Good for the actors, too. This was a uni
formly strong cast, with nary a weak link. 
And the performance by Jeff Paul, a young, 
good-looking cuss, as Lenny Bruce, was the 
best single performance by a Pittsburgh 
actor I have seen this season.
Lenny Bruce deserves Mr. Pauls sensitive 
and compelling treatment. One of the grea
test entertainers of the late 50s and early 60s, 
Lenny Bruce spent most erf the final five 
years of his life in courtrooms, rather than in 
nightclubs, defending himself on a variety 
of drug and obscenity charges. Combined 
with a wife who was sent to jail on drug 
charges, and a baby girl he had to raise, these 
legal confrontations forced Bruce into an 
underground lifestyle that eventually led to 
a heroin overdose in 1966 at the age of forty.
But Bruce was known mostly for his 
comedy, and as I found out in this produc
tion, his impressions of famous political fig
ures of the day: Eisenhower, Nixon, 
Kennedy, McCarthy, and many others who 
did not escape his wrath.
Yet Bruce himself said, Im not a come
dian. And Im not sick. The world is sick, 
and Im the doctor. Im a surgeon for false 
values. I dont have an act; I just talk. Im 
just Lenny Bruce.
Well, just Lenny Bruce leaves a lot to 
work with, and The Lab does him justice. 
Using a three-piece band of sax, bass, and 
drums, director Bill Royston evokes the era 
effortlessly, on what amounts to a very 
skimpy set. The lighting, designed by David 
P. Chesnet, is especially effective.
Lenny is the centerpiece, erf course, yet he 
is surrounded by some fascinating perfor
mances. Caryl Opshinsky, who plays his 
wife, is a marvel. Mrs. Bruce was a secondrate stripper who became a drug addict, and 
all the nuance of this sad woman is evident 
in Miss Opshinskys performance.
The rest of the cast plays about three char
acters apiece, some better than others. Dou
glas Pona, as one erf Lennys musician 
friends, deserves special mention, as do Jerry 
Morris, G. W. Rooney, Bob Wenzel, and Joe 
Schad, who does a very funny imitation of 
cordirngt or hsws p,
Entertainment.
CMU video artists reach out

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanOctober 12,1982
"Edie": American biography of a preppie turned hippie
By TOM HUDAK
Special for the Tartan
Its no coincidence that the words preppie 
and hippie sound so much alike. A hippie, 
after all, is simply what happened to prep
pies during the sixties. For a brief period, say 
from 1965 to 1969, some 
.j* members of the American upper
dp class youth felt that it was
fashionable to reject all they had 
inherited and just drop out, do drugs, and 
engage in kinky sex.
Edie: An American Biography, tells the 
story of one American youth who did just 
that. Edith Mintum Sedjwick (1943-1971) 
was bom into a wealthy and prestigious 
family. In fact, one of her ancestors, Rev. 
Endicott Peabody, founded the American 
prep school  Groton. Yet Edie came of age 
(and into her inheritance) during the mid
sixties, at a time when old family ties became 
considerably less important than being 
with it.
So, as her biography explains, Edie never 
married a polo player. Instead she studied 
art in Cambridge, then moved to New York 
where she was first a Vogue fashion model 
and then Andy Warhols chief groupie. Dur
ing this period she also began a love affair 
with various drugs. After starring in numer
ous bad Warhol films, she broke with War
hol, and returned to her native California, 
where she increased her drug abuse, slept 
with bikers, married and ODd.
Edies biography credits two men with 
having the most influence on her life: pop 
artist Andy Warhol and her father, Francis 
Fuzzy Sedgwick. Edies father, a failed 
businessman, writer, and sculptor, had the 
Sedgwick name, but when he married, it 
was his wife who had most of the money.
Fuzzy Sedgwick was something like an
uncaring Great Santini (i.e., a real bastard.) 
As a sickly child, he grew up in the shadow 
of his brother Mintum Sedgwick, a Harvard 
football hero. To overcome his insecurities, 
he exercised daily and fathered eight child
ren. The family settled on Rancho Laguna, 
a California ranch that extended from 
horizon to horizon. Allegedly, Fuzzy made 
passes at nearly all the attractive women 
who visited the ranch  including the 
friends of his children. Fuzzys promiscuity 
and athleticism, the books claims, created a 
competitiveness that resulted in the suicide 
of one son and the estrangement and accid
ental death of another.
Edies adolescence was divided between 
prep schools and private psychiatric clinics, 
where she was treated for anorexia nervosa. 
But upon her arrival in New York, in 1964, 
she soon displayed a talent for achieving 
celebrity. She was seen with Mick Jagger, 
Bob Dylan, and, most importantly, Andy 
Warhol. Andy and Edie became constant 
companions, each learning from the other. 
Andy Warhol, once just a shy CamegieTech student, learned much about society 
from Edie; in return, Edie learned much 
about outrageousness.
Yet after only a couple of years, the two 
split up. Edie unsuccessfully courted Bob 
Dylan, who supposedly wrote his song, 
Just Like a Woman, about her. (The 
extent of their relationship, though, is never 
made clear in the book.) Having gone 
through her inheritance (she spent $80,000 
in just one six month period) Edie tried 
modeling professionally. But Vogue was 
unwilling to use her regularly  no doubt 
because of her associations with the drug 
world.
Twice Edies apartment caught fire, prob
ably because she would leave candles burn
ing while in a drugged stupor. She returned 
to the west coast, and drifted in and out of 
psychiatric institutions for drug abuse treat
ment. Her boyfriends were no longer New 
York jet setters but California bikers. When 
she married a middle class hippie in 1971, it 
was not a turn for the better; in less than six 
months she was dead.
Edie: An American Biography, is written 
by Jean Stein and edited by George Plimp
ton. The reason why editor Plimpton gets 
equal billing with writer Stein is obvious to 
anyone who opens the book; the editors role
in creating this book must have been enor
mous. Edie: An American Biography, is 
composed entirely of taped conversations 
with those who knew her. Each chapter con
sists of a groups of conversations about some 
part of her life.
This technique makes Edies biography 
both readable and annoying. Reading chap
ter after chapter of taped conversation is 
somewhat like attending a weekend long 
cocktail party: at first you will enjoy the 
conversation; after a while you just want to 
cordirngt or hswg p,Floyd beats head against "wall"
By L. G. TROVATO
Tartan Staffwriter
OK, I must admit I was supposed to 
review Pink Floyds The Wall a few weeks 
ago, but I was rather high when I saw it, and 
the review I wrote was equally incoherent.
Wisely, my editor suggested I see 
it again. Unfortunately, I did. 
Obviously, it was much better 
high.
I think the audience Roger Waters 
expected for this piece of trash was supposed 
to be composed of fifteen-year-olds on add. 
For anyone more intelligent and less sus
ceptible, Pink Floyds The Wall is quite 
simply a mess.
Mr. Waters, the antagonist of the British 
rock group Pink Floyd, scripted this film, 
but for the life of me, even after two view
ings, I could not figure out what was said, or 
what the point was.
I am also unable to tell you the plot. I 
think it is about the life of a rock star named 
Pink. We see scenes of what I assume to be 
this characters boyhood, and also of some
relationships with women, specifically his 
mother and a girlfriend. (Theres one shot 
where he seems to be getting married, but 
God only knows what happened to his* 
wife.) These women are made out to be 
vulture-like predators in a series of animated 
scenes, which also include marching 
hammers, teenagers in faceless masks, var-j 
ious brick walls, and copulating flowers. 
Then we get WWII-vintage battle scenes, in 
which many soldiers are bloodily maimed, 
and scenes of facist rallies which this rock 
star leads.
The director, Alan Parker, shot less than 
half a film, for the same shots are used over I 
and over again, along with meaningful 
close-ups of a right forearm. And for some 
reason, there is blood everywhere.
The message I got from all this is that 
rock stars are closet fadsts, and the teenagers 
who follow their music will become faceless 
dones. Cheery.
Dont see this film. The album is fine, 
even terrific. Why Waters felt he needed 
further artistic expression is beyond me. 
This movie is a self-indulgent bore.
SALE STARTS OCTOBER I1
JusflREATS
Woff Selected Bwiif 
and Painting Mediums 
tLQ/o Off Disconfinued fiapidogfapb
and otter limited Sale Items.
CMUAPCI5T0RE

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 21
Together" Heart gives fans impressive concert
Edit oralN
artan Staffwritrr
Hearts concert on the second of this 
onth was quite impressive. The majority 
f the concert was captivating, although it 
ot off to an unimpressive start. The lights 
were well used, as were the other 
. visual effects. Sound in the 
crowded Arena was clear and 
precise, even on the acoustical 
deces.
Heart is still quite a together band. 
iey played a tight show from start to finh; both Ann and Nancy Wilson sang 
irably. Nancy, looking very nice in leouti tights and tails, played guitar on the 
lioustic pieces and proved herself quite the 
msician she is. Ann also performed well on 
,th keyboards and guitar. Dressed becomigly in black tights and jacket, she also 
ig extremely well.
A Led Zeppelin song was the opener of a 
eat show. After this diversion, Heart 
limed their attention to their best songs. 
Itost of the music was from the older
I bums, but the songs from the new one,
Private Auditions, were well done. City 
is Bumin, one new song, was nicely 
staged, utilizing a backdrop and various 
lighting ploys to great effect.
Songs such as Bebe le Strange, Dog 8c 
Butterfly, Magic Man, Raised On You 
and Barracuda followed the opener of 
Zeppelins Rock and Roll. Guitarist 
Howard Leese was occasionally up staged 
by Ann Wilsons guitar work, but his solos 
were unbeatable. Leese was also a betterthan-average keyboardist, but he abandoned 
the boards in favor of his guitar for most of
the show.
While Heart playing Zeppelin was accep
table, John Cougar singing You Cant 
Always Get What You Want was not. This 
encore song by the warm-up band was a 
sufficiently offensive way to end his show. 
Cougar seems to have succeeded in making 
himself the sex idol for our nations 12-yearolds. The screaming of his young fans was 
enough to pierce the eardrums of anyone 
over the age of 18.
Nevertheless, when Heart came out, I 
knew why I was there. The band was very
energetic, constantly moving across the 
multi-level stage. The stage itself was quite 
interesting, highlighted by the backlighted 
steps of all erf the platforms. This effect 
worked especially well in Dreamboat 
Annie, with fog rolling over the stage and 
an abstract background completing the 
peaceful scene.
All in all, Heart put on a pretty amazing 
show. The rowdy points were tempered by 
the more mellow moments. At the end, 
Heart promised a return trip to their recep
tive fans. I only hope that they make it soon.
Ronstadt revives oldies in refreshing way
By DEBBIE NIR
Tartan Staffumter
The queen of remakes is at it again. Of the 
twelve songs on Linda Ronstadts new 
album Get Closer, ten are previously 
recorded, but seldom heard, 1960s and 70s 
tunes. This collection, however, is much 
more than Ronstadt Revives the Sixties.
ook's strobe-light views 
if Sedgwick's tragic life
ued aom hswg pve. Unlike author Joan Didions The 
kite Album, another remembrance of the 
xties, this book doesnt provide the reader 
I ith a single, handsome prose style. Instead 
lie reader has to listen to a variety of voices
I ome eloquent, most not) yakking about 
Idie.
1 The books construction in many ways 
sembles that old sixties novelty  the 
obe light. A strobe light blinks on and off, 
pturing faces with the glare of a spotlight, 
t for just a few seconds. In this book, Edie 
Ixigwick functions like a strobe light, and 
lie conversations recorded here are those 
Moments when others were briefly caught
II the light she projected.
M All we really learn from reading her bioaphy are her relationships, usually brief 
id casual, with those who knew her at
 fferent periods in her life. Edie herself 
I >eaks to us through brief conversations 
 ped for a movie about her life. But the
 oblem with her conversations and those 
% ith her friends is that we, as readers, never 
jjiow how much is real and how much is 
1st chit-chat.
For example, Edies friends tell us that she 
limed her father made sexual advances
 ward her, and that once he even whipped
 ? before his ranch hands. But, like gossip,
 ese claims are repeated without ever 
I ploring the truth.
I The books greatest flaw lies not with its 
instruction, but with its subject. The life of 
he Sedgwick seems interesting until 
uve read this biography. Edie passed 
Bough many fascinating worlds: Ameriupper crust, the New York fashion 
|>rld, the pop art scene, and California 
<er cults. But when youve finished her 
B>graphy, you discover that her involve-nt with these worlds was never very deep.
1
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
I "or a confidential friend call:
ordiorni
downtown Pgh. 
leaver County 
^on Valley 
Sutler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
Terminals and Modems For Rent 
Call (412) 335-9815 
International Automation, Inc.
-ntm 5BB umddcg RigU Rndsng, 
3m1 Nmghng,tcgD Mv '"BWPWOIW
By growing up in California, she was 
divorced from many of the social games 
played by her East coast relatives. A success
ful model, her inheritance protected her 
from ever having to model to make a living. 
While a close friend of Warhol and an 
actress in his movies, she was never an artist 
herself.
All during the time she was a girlfriend of 
several biker-hippies, she remained under 
the protection of two private nurses. Her 
final death was not the kind that befell other 
drugged hippies. She did not die in a back 
alley with a needle in her arm, but in bed, 
because the drugs her familys doctor pres
cribed did not mix with all she had to drink 
that night.
The result then, is the story about a girl 
whom we, as readers, never really get to 
know. And her life story does litde to 
explain that strange decade in which she 
lived. The sad truth is that Edie Sedgwick 
never advanced beyond her first role as a 
pretty debutante.Breland talks 
about video
cordirngt aom hswg ,1
support.
My feeling is, Breland says, that I 
wont be satisfied until we marry the analog 
(video) system with the digital (computer) 
system. What good are computer graphics if 
nobodys watching?
Breland feels that the university should 
take advantage of its opportunity. In other 
areas, CMU is out in the high-risk, explora
tory frontier, in hopes of getting in on the 
ground floor of something big. Heres 
another chance.
Get Closer is a return to the 
raw emotional wear-and-tear on 
the soul quality, missing from 
the slicker but mediocre pre
vious two albums. More importantly, the 
album represents the evolution of Ron
stadts highly diverse career, leaving on every 
cut the signature of a period of expansion 
and growth.
From the barefoot beginnings of early 
Southern California rock, when the Stone 
Poneys and the Eagles backed her very coun
try voice, to the present bel canto reflective
ness, Ronstadt has taken tremendous 
musical risks. With the help of long time 
producer Peter Asher, the experimentation 
has kept her music from becoming repeti
tious, a trap rockers like Joan Jett and Stevie 
Nicks seem to be falling into.
Ronstadts most recent musical tight-rope 
escapade, the stage and movie version of 
The Pirates of Penzance, is ever present on 
Get Closer, but not because there are any 
dizzying Gilbert and Sullivan ditties. Ron
stadts torchy interpretive belting has grown 
ever so confident and doubly dramatic.
In fact, the shakey and hesitant singing on
a cut recorded in 1977, Sometimes You Just 
Cant Win, is a strong reference for the 
improvement.
cordirngt or hswg pp
Lenny at the lab
cordirngt aom hswg ,1
Eisenhower golfing in the Oval Office.
But it is Jeff Paul who commands the 
evening. His performance grasped the 
multi-faceted quality erf Lennys life, and the 
comedy routines and particularly his 
impressions are amazing. Ultimately the 
pathos erf Bruces life takes over, and Paul is 
more than up to the dramatic demands of 
the script His final scene, where he defends 
himself to an ignorant, prejudiced court, is 
breathtaking.
Lenny Bruce is alive and well, and play
ing on the comer erf Baum and Craig, at the 
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre. Whether 
you are a Lenny Bruce fan or not, this will 
be an exciting evening of theatre. (Just hear
ing the phone company monologue live 
is worth the price of admission.) The world 
needs a Lenny Bruce.
THE
of 83
Tb stangante fer tomorrow's state-oMhe-art 
software systems and applications are being awt 
today t SofTeefc W* r a mpidfr growing 
tRtenwoftai organixatfe wMc*. j8*t *4 years, has 
attawd wort JeadersWp to such atases as language
appSeations id CA0/CAM. to name just a few. Our 
sufesWfciy. SofTech Mfcrosprtams. i ta wortd-wW* 
dfctrtfeirtor oftfte ttCSO p-Sfttom**. the popular
Etoctrte*! Qagfrmttof and Mathematics *a#n^wfth
repregantatfras w be conducting on-campus 
interviews c Wovefflber & em you tcc ttw talent and 
ambttkw ft take to tof!ue*c an industry, your best 
posttkm I wamng it SofTech.
TMK myrwftwt nrHnauxiv coitpwiv
Corporate 460 To*n tottfftwtf. Mttewn.sts*s tT>a>eat/aoaseas* oo * oh.tadtaMfx* M< wn*. *Y WMfefevptoe. OC  UrtteMpW, P*
m-, Sftft OW9& * OMHKXt. CA ***. K/:  Manme**. HJ rt 
mottm BMrft. awwrt*fcy tnptoprr

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 12, 1982
Flashy Ice Capades cold as ice except to the kids
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The lights dimmed, the voices hushed 
and everyone waited in anticipation. It was 
opening night of the Ice Capades and the 
kids squirmed with impatience and shook 
 their brightly decorated 
flashlights.
Suddenly there was the glare 
 of a spotlight and out skated
Papa Smurf and Smurfette. Childish squeup. The Ice Capettes wore a lot of white 
and silver fur and sequins, that covered little 
The Ice Cadets had on flashy white cowhc 
suits.
For me, the Ice Capades was a disappoini 
ment, tarnishing my childhood memories, 
However, children definitely enjoyed the 
show, and the Ice Capades should reniaii 
the way it is  a flashy show to entertain the 
kids.
als of delight filled the Civic Arena. MemoB . I
ries oC the wne . had seen the Ice |\/| ^ Qf fOOtS BflQ 0^681118 III IStSSt HOnStaClt
pleasing to watch.
Karen Jubert and Bob Moskalyk skated a 
moving routine to the music of On Golden 
Pond. They worked well together and with 
the music, as did Debbie Cutter and Randy 
Coyne, who skated together in a very fluid 
act.
After some mildly thrilling acrobatic 
routines by David Comb and some swash
buckling on ice by Michael Tokar, the 
Smurfs came on for their act. Childish
screams again rose around me as the Smurfs 
escaped the arch villain Gargamels devious 
plot.
After an intermission and the second half 
of The Sea Nymph and the Prince, there 
were some more comic routines and some 
strange creatures that skated on ice, which 
the children loved. The kids also loved Don 
Danfields comic and acrobatic routine on 
the diving board. The night ended with the 
Ice Capettes and the Ice Cadets in a roundCapades, ten years ago, flooded my mind. As 
the night progressed the show became more 
and more of a let-down.
Indeed, it should have been exciting. 
Randy Gardner and Tai Babilonia were the 
special guests. Professionalism, however, 
seems to have affected their style and exper
tise. Their duo act was disappointingly dull, 
lacking in the spectacular and practiced 
moves and tricks they had shown the world 
before and during the 1980 Olympics. Their 
solo acts seemed to be wanting also, though 
Randys act, done to James Bond theme 
songs, was definitely flashy.
Brad Doud skated an amusing solo, in 
which he portrayed himself as a debonair 
flirt His routine, though comic, still 
showed a style and a smoothness which was
cordirngt aom hswg p,
Two of the three classic songs on the 
record, I Knew You When, and Talk To 
Me of Mendidno, have Ronstadt success
fully playing show and tell with her recent 
confidence building years.
In I Knew You When, Ronstadt dem
onstrates a volcanic voice punctuated by 
Yeah, Yeahs, with a more powerful crescendoed wailing than on any other previous 
recordings. Her notes are held longer, the 
lung powered belting reaches the last row in 
the balcony, and a few lines even come close 
to being a dramatic reading.
This is the tune where Ronstadt cleverly 
mixes her past a Mexican heritage in a 
Spanish flavored electric guitar with her
present an effective use of her Pirates 
upper octave during the fade out.
If folk songstress Kate McGanigle had 
written the ballad Talk To Me of Mendi
dno in 1982, we would say that it was 
written about Ronstadts life, but the fact 
that it is a 1975 tune makes it an ironic 
predictor of Ronstadts fate.
Appropriately she sings lines like , I bid 
farewell to the state of old New York/My 
home away from home/in the state of old 
New York I came of age/When first I started 
roaming, through, Let the sun rise over 
the redwoods/Ill rise with it till I rise no 
more, with a soft solemness and nostalgic 
respect of the past, aided by Dennis Kaenazyns haunting cello. Complimenting the
If youre looking for 
quality and innovation 
check us out!
Who are we?
Were a world-wide team dedicated to quality in people, policies, and 
products. Weve progressed from a small business founded in 1939 
by two young college engineers to a company of 64,000 people 
internationally.
 We design and manufacture over 4,500 products in four major 
categories; computers, electronic test and measurement 
equipment, analytical instrumentation and medical electronic 
products.
 During the last decade we grew at an annual rate of more than 
20H achieving a rank of 110th on the 1982 Fortune 500, raising 
1981 sales to $3.58 billion.
What opportunities do we offer?
 We believe in recruiting the very best college-educated talent we 
can find and providing them with a working environment which 
rewards individual contribution. During the next decade, we plan 
to hire about 18,000 graduating students.
 We currently have professional positions offering 
immediate responsibility at numerous, choice locations across 
the U.S. in the following disciplines:
? electrical, mechanical, chemical, industrial, software 
development and computer engineering.
? electronic technology
? physics, chemistry, material science
? treasury, controllership/accounting and industrial relations.
Were excited about our future.. .join us!
We'll be on campus to talk with you the week of:
______October 25,1982_________
Check the placement office for details
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
Where performance is measured by results
%tvi
HEWLETT
PACKARD
cello is Fleetwood Macs own Lindsey Buck 
ingham on the accordion adding a Euro 
pean backdrop to the song.
Another famous rock talent, James Tay
lor, more than holds his own sharing vocal] 
on I Think Its Gonna Work Out Fine, 
spirited jazzy number. Taylor sounds any. 
thing but his often bland, and it is his mos 
invigorating performance since his other 
famous duet, Mockingbird.
Lies, the third classic, is a remake of the 
1965 Knickerbockers competition and by far 
the most appealing song on the album j 
difinite top 40 hit. In the same vein as Heat 
Wave, it is a joyous celebration, despite 
heartbreaking words, erf the simple rock a 
roll of the early Sixties. Ronstadt begins tc 
falter on Tell Him, byadaptinga Do, Do 
Do, fifties rock tune to the new wave eighj 
cordirngt or hswg p
VALLEY OPTICAL
for all your eyeglass needs 
5820 Forbes Ave.
422-2020 
upper level of Gils 
Squirrel Hill
FOOTBALL SPECIAL
Bring a Tartan or Steeler ticket stub in 
and receive a 20% discount cm all 
frames. Students must show ID card.
PREGNANT? can ifi
Lets talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706908 Penn Avenue. Downtown 8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, counseling, pregnancy testing, and related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INCa non-profit organization
A charismatic 
prayer meeting 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m.| 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information: 
262-3950.
>i

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 23
occer squad wins easily
CASTLE
partem Staffunriter
Tuesdays soccer match between the TarBans of CMU and West Liberty was a game 
)f superlatives.
3 CMUs Tartans totally dominated the 
pntest in every aspect, for every second, on 
every part of the field as West Liberty was a 
isgrace to the sport at the very least. Many 
Spectators had to remind themselves that 
|his West Liberty team was a college team 
and not a high school team. Our Tartans 
|ever had it so easy as they crushed West 
Mjberty into submission by the score of 5-0. 
;Xhe Tartans took the win and boosted their 
aecord to (4-3) as their hapless opponents 
plummeted to (0-7).
At the very beginning, one could already 
onclude what was to come as the Tartans 
red 5 very good shots on goal within the 
rst 5 minutes. Nevertheless, CMU had 
Home difficulty in finding the net with the 
Ball. Finally after 18 plus minutes of domi
nation, CMU broke the ice as a cross from 
Jprward, Francise Ouesada on the rieht
defender. Four minutes later CMU upped 
the score to 2-0 as co-captain Neal Frink 
kicked a perfect comer kick and midfielder 
Charles Lockhead went into the air to head 
the ball into the net. The score didnt change 
before the half despite several good oppor
tunities for CMU.
After the break, CMU came out and per
sisted with their offensive assault upon West 
Liberty. Both teams play was a litde ragged 
as the heat and quick play took their toll 
upon the players, also leading to flaring 
tempers on both teams. CMU still had not 
lost control of the game as they increased the 
lead to 3-0 early in the 2nd half. Midfielder, 
Owen Ranta, receiving a pass from Scott 
Ritter beat his man and passed off to Serge 
Bignens, who put a strong shot home into 
the right side of the net.
Coach Gaudissos team put away the 
game when they scored their 4th and 5th 
goals off of throw-ins. Lockhead hit 
Quesada with a throw-in. Quesada quickly 
converted the throw into a goal. Later a 
throw-in from Todd Perri found an open 
cordirngt or hswg py
for 28 and passing for 232 yards.photo by Gene Yonish
By RIC MEDROW
Assistant Sports Editor
Its a mysterious annual ritual. The 
atmosphere is tense with expectation. Peo
ple seem to magically appear from every 
sector of the nation. They are summoned to 
be witness to this phenomenon in an arena 
known as Tech Field. Strange beings clad in 
the gold and white armor of Allegheny Uni
versity once again make the yearly chal
lenge. The challenge is, as always, accepted.
This year the seers have all predicted a 
rout. Our champion Tartans march in with 
a 3-1 record while their traditional oppo
nents are but 1-2. But an evil spell seems to 
permeate the CMU offense. Few are safe 
from the insideous incantation. Only quar
terback Bill Kiselick and fullback Jim Mor
rison remained unaffected.
Kiselick continued to weave his own 
magic. The lefthander floated his team 67 
yards in 14 plays for seven points early in the 
first quarter, including a one yard scoring 
sneak.
Meanwhile, the normally dazzleless 
Allegheny offense was polymorphed by a 
foreboding, new enchanter called Chris 
Bordman. Bordman teleported himself 
from his accustomed bench position to 
quarterback. Soon Bordman had equalled 
CMUs 10 points.
But then there was a cosmic explosion. 
The halftime gun had sounded. Thus, the 
cordirngt or hswg py
Tartans clinch PWC title
sophomore goalie Daina Baumhammers 
held out without letting one penalty stroke 
into the Tartan goal cage.
After such a challenging game, the Tar
tans were ready to keep up the intensity 
and defeat Bethany. The team essentially 
dominated the game from the beginning 
with a goal scored in the first half. Sopho
more Defen semen Mary Ann Sacco and 
Jerilyn Ward played outstandingly, and 
kept the Bison ball away from CMUs goal.
The second half brought a second CMU 
goal scored by Beth MacElwee, and Bethany 
managed to net one goal with five minutes 
left erf play.
CMU meets Chatham on Wednesday at 
4:30 on Tech Field, a predicted victory. If 
Chatham is defeated, CMU will have the 
Conference Tide and an undefeated Confer
ence Season.
CMUs
Beth MacElwee (21) tries to take the ball away from a Bethany Defender.
Tsao-Wu
The CMU Womens Field Hockey team 
clinched the Penwood-West Conference tide 
by beating Bethany College here 2-1.
Last weeks pressure-schedule against two 
tough schools, W 8c J and Bethany resulted 
in two victories. The team goes on to play 
Chatham at home on Wednesday.
Beating W 8c J last Tuesday, 4-2, was one 
of this seasons hardest games. The team 
expected to beat the Presidents, but found 
themselves down 2-1 at half rime. W 8c J 
played tough on their home turf and were 
hard to budge. The Tartans pulled through 
in the last few minutes with a picture-book 
goal by right-winger Peggy Kennefick to tie 
the score 2-2. The first goal was scored by 
Beth MacElwee off a pass by Center Half 
Lynn Kelly. With overtime producing no 
goals, the teams then took penalty strokes 
against the opposing goalies, and two win
ning strokes were made by Amy Robbins 
and Lynn Otto. It also may be added that
agressive style of play earned them an easy victory.

---------------------------------------------------

Foral5Vx201ite'color posterof this illustration, please sendyour request to: Poster, College Relations, P.O. Box 1166, Pittsburgh, PA 15230. Gulf Oil Corporation An Equal Opportunity Employer
Were Gulf Oil Corporation. And well be on campus to look for something
very much in demand these days. New energy. Specifically, new human energy.
The fast-changing energy field will continue to be one of the most exciting and rewarding 
places to launch a career. Into the eighties, and beyond. And Gulf has exceptional 
opportunities for new people with new ideas about solving energy problems.
Sign up for an appointment now at your placement office. And pick up some Gulf 
literature for background information. Because this year promises to be a great year for new 
energy. And we cant think of a better place to look than here. .__________________________
DATE: OCTOBER 26EE, Physics & Comp. Sd. Majors

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 25
'he Strokers edge PKT to capture Birdy Open
Matt Daleys winning round erf 71 led the 
alters to the team tide in the annual Mr. 
lirdy Open. The Strokers team total erf 304 
the rest of the pack by a wide margin. J. 
filcox came in 2nd for Phi Kappa Theta 
^ith a score of 73, while D. Hackett of PKT 
id B. Jurik of the Strokers tied for third 
Irith 76.
In other IM news, commissioners are still 
led for Table Tennis and Bowling.
[lease contact Mr. Birdy if youre interested. 
I Person Volleyball, with comm. Joe Bares, 
3405, must have its entries in by Oct. 14th. 
lere will be a Majors, Intermediate, 
linor, and Womens leagues. Please check 
lilletin board for practice time.
IM Soccer entries are also due Thursday, 
[ct. 14th. There will be two leagues, Majors 
id Minors. A Womens division will also be 
fovided. Six players play at a time but most 
iportantly a comm, is needed.
[ The IM Cross Country run will take place 
ursday, Oct. 21st at Flagstaff Hill. The 
Lurse will cover most of Schenley Park and 
(ill 1.9 miles in length. A special heat will 
held for the women. All those who are 
[terested might want to check out the map 
the bulletin board. You may run as an 
Idividual or as a five person team.
ouch football
WIN LOSS
0 3
|FC
A
iches All Stars 
ibbers II 
fild Bunch
[TERMEDIATES
oAgthswe
le Oslo Men 
^st Years 
si SUPA
iike Motor Gang 
ks From Brado 
fssmen
WIN LOSS
3 0
2 1
1 1
0 3
WIN LOSS
3 0
kTS
a
i Kap A 
te House 
ie Firckers 
ie Steroid Conn 
ta Double A
WIN LOSS
1 3
The playoff schedule will be up this week 
for IM Football. Also, the next board meet
ing will be held Oct. 21st at 1:00 p.m. in the 
usual spot.
The 1982 Save-A-Life Swim will be con
ducted here at Camegie-Mellon University 
the week of October 11th thru the 15th.
Ms. Pecman, Save-A-Life Swim Chairper
son, urges all members of the CMU com
munity to participate in this very worthy 
cause to stamp out cancer.
Special times have been set aside for all 
those who would like to swim during the 
day with Ms. Pecmans swimming class on 
Monday, Oct. 11th from 1:30 p.m. to 3:00 
p.m. and Wednesday Oct. 13th at 1:30 p.m. 
to 3:00 p.m. If you would like to swim with 
Mr. Birdys Advanced Life Saving class, a 
special swim to Save-A-Life will be held 
Thursday, Oct 14th from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 
a.m.
Please pick up a sponsor sheet from Ms. 
Pecman or Mr. Birdy in the Gym Building, 
recruit sponsors to pay you a certain amount 
for each length you swim and swim as many 
lengths as you can to stop cancer.
for additional information, please call 
Ms. Pecman at ext. 2345.
TRAPS WIN LOSS
Hitman 1 1
Big Beef Burrito 1 1
Sigma Nu 0 3
ATOII 0 1
Taps 4 0
QUADS
D-Force 
Theta Xi A 
Y. Us Pedes 
Du I
The Tech Police 
MINORS
HEAD SLAP
Phi Kap B 
Hairy Mollusks 
PIKA C 
Ozzies Wizards 
Flying Armadillos
OFFSIDES
GWANGI 
Who Cares II 
Theta Xi B 
NP - Completions 
Fatsos
INTERFERENCE
E-Force
Ghem. Abstarcts 
Sigma Nu 
Renegades 
Sun Devils
WIN LOSS
2 1
WIN LOSS
WIN LOSS
3 0
WIN LOSS
1 2
tlE/VOI
105 Sixth Street 
(412) -2-H-E-A-V-E-N
Coming:
Oct. 14th
WDVE Welcomes Payola$
Tickets Available at the Door 
One Hour Draft Complements of PayolaS 9-10 P\1
Oct 21st
Billy Idol
Tickets available at Heads Together, Jim's Records, and 
Skibo Information Desk
HOLDING
The Spliffs 
Trojanz 
T 8c A
Back is Black 
Mike cant throw
CLIPPING
3-E
7-E Lunatics 
DU II 
Whalers 
KS B
FACE MASKING
Skull Krushers 
GDI
Whankers 
Crash Crew 
Schlag A-3
ROUGHING
SAE
Army ROTC 
Doughertys Ds 
The Wade Squad 
DTD
GIRLS
5-E
DDD
GSIA
KKG
Fruit of the Loom
WIN LOSS
0 2
WIN LOSS
2 1
4
0.
0
1
WIN LOSS
1 1
WIN LOSS
2 1
WIN LOSS
1 2
Co-Rec volleyball
MAJOR LEAGUE (G) WIN
Theta Xi 0
USTALAR 1
INTERMEDIATES
LEAGUE (K) WIN
Phi Kap A 0
Thump Mooers 1
Pi Lam 2
DUI 0
Comp Center 2
LEAGUE (L) WIN
DU II 0
LENT 0
Cherwonik 2
EE 0
Harrys Tavern 3
LOSS
1
0
LOSS
1
1
1
2
0
LOSS
1
1
0
2
1
MINOR LEAGUE (M)WINLOSS
Seven 8c Seven20
Delta Gamma02
Team X20
Team Y02
Team Z
Tennis
11
MAJORS
CONNORSWINLOSS
Phi Kap B31
Boys from Brador02
Photons50
Play Level03
Math21
Theta Xi03
LENDELWINLOSS
Phi Kap A40
EE02
Harrys Tavern12
Drop Shots14
GSIA40
ACES03
McENROEWINLOSS
ABT12
Arpanets Blur40
DU14
Dat Guts04
HH21331
Inz31
MINORS
BORGWINLOSS
Nets04
7E Faults02
DCC13
Phi Kap C41
Slump50
Arpanets Gold22
Water polo
WINLOSS
Computer Science01
PKT11
PLP02
WINLOSS
SAE20
Theta Xi11
ZBT11
The finest collection of Antique 
Clothing From 1890-1950.
FOR LADIES & GENTS* VINTAGE CLOTHIERCUUDANONYMOUS
pvU :oagFoot sd grdag yv, C 1kv8 
pCy bngNECIaiE RRCy.sdE
W5SWO5S I95MCAT-LSATGMAT Of SATDATGRE. CPA **
Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPESMfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
Opportunity to make up missed lessons.Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field. Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
9bGS5 9j5.S. OfOLOuLSGRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
Eves  )
Essex GonNg L1p
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
-H.M
 Corners Center, Negley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
yy,Cp88p

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanOctober 12, 1982
imm 8 H
" ' ' / ''
ipili
Mm BUI5 IMBBlIHcts EIWillvBEnwffAMBiiTBB crieirevVIn 1# I EK SvIENWE
Ifr GRADUATES
So, .1 you're an engineer or computer special* wno wants a jofc With real responsibility. sign up ext your Piacement Office for an interview
Well b on campus
Wednesday,
October 20,1982
We re Mc-Donneii Douglasone of the world's leaders m fast moving, exciting fields . military and commercial aircraft, rois$U$. spacecraft electronics, automation ana health services '
And we re looking for people who are looking for the opportunity to out what they've teamed io work-people ilk you
What we otter is a wide variety of advanced technical projects ana a chance to go; involved, really involved, >n programs on the leading do of technology
O99?fOiiL --M?,U.
An qua! opportunity employe? {
U.S. Citizenship requtr&'J
Volleyball progressing
By STEVEN J. WELLER
Tartan Staffurritrr
As the first volleyball game began with 
the CMU Tartans against the Pennsylvania 
- Fayette Campus on Friday, it seemed 
as if Jane Fisk, the volleyball coach, predic
tion was accurate when she said before the 
game, We should win tonight.
After the game, Jane Fisk comment 
about the volleyball team saying, They a]
progressing. The next game will be 
home on Thursday at five when the tean
plays a trimeet against St. Francis and Cfo 
tham. Coach Fisk said of Thursdays games
It will really be tough!
Kiselick invokes Fates
cordirngt aom hswg pk
spell was broken. The awakened voice of 
Mark Leposky pronounced, We were 
pretty sluggish in the first half. We took 
them too lighdy. They are a good team.
We kept stopping ourselves with mis
takes. Then we took a look at Kiselick and 
Morrison at halftime, and we got on our
selves. The spell was broken.
The defense mystified the Allegheny 
offense. Wherever the ball was, so was the 
Tartan defense. Strong safety Paul Scarmazzi seemed to be invisible to Bordman, 
whos magic was drained by the CMU 
defense. Scarmazzi intercepted two of Bordmans spell while Orlowski also had an 
interception.
Then Kiselick began to cabalize th 
Allegheny defense. Wide receiver Mai 
Leposky seemed to come out of nowhere 
receive a Kiselick blast for 36 yards. Fort] 
four yards later, seven more points appear 
on the scoreboard.
By the time the mist had cleared, Kiselii 
had completed 14 spells in 28 attempt 
breaking 1000 yards on the season, indui
ing 232 yards against Allegheny. Kiselit 
did so by invoking the arcane talents of 
Fates, Mark Leposky (four receptions for
yards), Harley Carroll (four receptions for| 
yards), and Dan Fry (four receptions for' 
yards). Thus the tradition known as Horn 
coming ended with CMU victorious, 20-1
Coach Jane Fisk gives some
complete
warded off any offensive by West Liberty.
After the match, co-captain, Neal Frink, 
correctly summerized, We are a much bet
ter team than the year before; we lost to this 
very team 4-2 last year. He also added, We 
played well today but we could play much 
better. When you are playing a team this 
bad, you tend to play at their level.
Tartan soccer
cordirngt aom hswg pk
Caleb Corkery who then hit a booming shot 
into the upper left comer of the net from the 
top right of the goalies box.
The Tartans demonstrated a solid, com
plete game as the offense produced, the mid
fielders controlled the flow of the game, and 
keeper Robert Borne and defenders easily

---------------------------------------------------

October 12, 1982The TartanPage 27
iiGet Closer'' proves Ronstadt still has fuel and fire
cordirngt aom hswg pp
jes sound heard on her last album, Mad 
Love. The only time she is not overpo
wered by harsh screeching electric guitars is 
on the chorus with Rosemary Buder and 
Debbie Pearl.
Joining Ronstadt on this brush with nos
talgia are her long time cronies, back-up 
musicians once accurately described by a
newspaper as being worth more than all the 
cocaine in Columbia. Sharing drum duties 
are Rick Shlosser and Russ Kunkel, the lat
ter shining with an exhilarating quick pace 
on Lies.
Kenny Edwards (bass), an original 
member of the Stone Poneys, Andrew Gold 
and Waddy Wactel (electric and acoustic 
guitars) of the post Nashville music refining
period, and ex-Litde Feet keyboardist Bill 
Payne, playing an inspiring Fender Rhodes 
in an otherwise unmemorable Mr. Radio, 
add to a tight fray-free sound.
With more political benefits and operet
tas, (two Brecht/Weill productions for 
Joseph Papps NY Public Theatre), Ron
stadt is continuing to expand her repertoire. 
Ultimately, however, she carries a flame for
Tennis whips Cai. State but loses to Dukes
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
The tennis team is still undefeated after 
Wednesdays match against California State 
College. During this match, the top three 
singles players and first, second, and third 
doubles teams combined to form an untopable line of attack.
All six matches (third doubles was an 
exhibition match) were concluded in just 
over one hour. The singles players, Bridget 
Kyne, Andrea Fabrega, and Brenda Gold
stein, craftily worked their opponents from
the baseline, carefully stroking the ball deep 
to the comers.
The doubles teams of Liza Reed and Pau
line Kramer, Laurie Arendas and Beth 
Dougherty, and Trina Nagasawa and Leslie 
Ingles were well-synchronized. Each pair, 
for the most part, played doubles as it was 
meant to be played: the girls followed in 
strong serves to the net and sharply volleyed 
for the point.
Against Division I Duquesne on Friday, 
the top two doubles teams again played 
aggressively, confidendy slamming over
heads out of their opponents reach.
The Dukes singles players were bit over
whelming. Although Carnegie-Mellon 
presnted Duquesne with strong competi
tion, the netters came close but no close 
enough. Annette Aloe, a senior art major, 
played third singles having slowly recovered 
form a persistent illness. She forced her 
opponent to three sets, but perhaps from 
lack of practice and a fatiguing recupaeration, Annette could not bounce back from 
her second set loss and subsequendy 
dropped the third and deciding set.
JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
her country roots and proves this by includ
ing as the final cut on Get Closer, a very 
southern lullaby entitled My Blue Tears.
Performed with country cousins Dolly 
Parton and Emmylou Harris, the song is a 
cohesive blending of Partons bird-like 
soprano and Ronstadts perceptively intelli
gent crooning, a quality that marks this 
album and her career.
Seminar examines 
deadly chemical combo
cordirngt aom hswg ,y
ing around three major chemicals (asbestos, 
DES, Agent Orange) in order to provide an 
understanding of the legal issues involved in 
determining responsibility for delayed 
disease.
The group plans to use the rest erf the 
semester to characterize toxic tort litigation 
in detail, investigate the amount of money 
awarded to bodi plaintiffs and persons who 
setde claims outside the court system, and 
to determine how long it takes for toxic tort 
cases to pass through the legal system com
pared to other product liability cases.
The final speaker, Marie Pflugfelder, 
senior, Chemical Engineering/EPP, sum
marized the problems identified by the peo
ple who spoke before him, and then 
mentioned some of the issues which any 
alternative system (such as National Health 
Insurance, or new legislation) would have to 
address. The group will be categorizing 
each (alternative) proposal. . . (allowing it) 
to identify shortcomings and to see which, if 
any, solves the problems in the present sys
tem. Pflugfelder said that they see a need 
for incentives for research and development 
into the causes of diseases.
Two more presentations of a similar 
nature will be held this semester.
Senate Agenda
1. Call to Order
2. Roll Call
3. Approval of the Minutes
4. Audience Participation
All students are invited to address the Senate on any subject 
of concern to them.
5. Officers' Reports
Dean Walter-Administration 
Dean Cox-Administration 
Nate Solano-Student Government President 
Mark Marsella-SDC |
Charlie Krafft-GSO 
Gina Fleitman-UFO 
Alexandra Kavoulakis-Senate Chairman 
Janelle Molloy-Senate Vice-Chairman
6. Senate Standing Committee Reports
Rules-General Announcement 
Academic Affairs-General Announcements 
General Campus fc Information-General Announcements 
Finance-Budgets for Forbes St. Gallery, Sweepstakes, 
Hockey Club, and allocation for tuition rally.
7. New Business
8. General Discussion
9. Announcements
10. Adjournment
WRCT 88.3 FM
broadcasts theBBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR
every Wednesday 9 PM 
and Saturday midnight 
This week: BOOMTOWNRATS
check each week's TARTAN classified section for other WRCT specials and features.
9gsms ey t8m iktnntnmh 9mm
t RCT
Phoix-v (21-W RCT w r7H-aH 88 3

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.Page 28The TartanOctober 12, 1982
classifieds
Professional typing and word processing Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
research papers, term papers. 24 hour service. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. 
West. 371-3657.
Improve your grades! Research catalog  306 
pages  10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 to Box 
25097C, Los Angeles, CA 90025. (213)477-8226.
Guitar lessons  classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
CMU music student. H hour: $6; 1 hour: $10. Call 
Jozsef Toth. 683-7331.
Oakland gallery needs people interested in pho
tography to sit one day/ week. Write BIG 4626 
Forbes Ave. 15213.
Halloween Accessories  masks, wigs, noses, 
tails, make-up, blood, scars, beards  you name 
it, weve got it! Free  over 100 costume tip. 
Childsplay - 650 Washington Road, Mt. 
Lebanon, 343-5620. Theatre department note - 
institutional discount available.
Reliable Student Wanted: Free room and board 
in exchange for babysitting/light housekeeping. 
Must love children and dogs. Flexible personality 
and schedule needed. Call 682-1558.
Students, need help with German? Call 578-2600.
Professional Typing/ Word Processing; Thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters 
etc. (MLA - APA & Turabian strongly observed.) 
Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour service 
avialable. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfaction 
guaranteed.
Like to earn some extra money? Fatsos is looking 
for sales personnel. Dormitory residents only 
need apply. No experience needed. Applications 
being accepted at Fatsos 3803 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland.
Wants to buy: stationary exercise bike with ten
sion control. Call Judy x2064.
To sell: drafting table with light, excellent condi
tion, call Bettie x2064.
Wanted: Refrigerator Dorm or medium size in 
working condition. Call x3577 or 681-5019 after 9
p.m.
For rent: attic in Shadyside house. Perfect for 
student couple or working person. Two rooms, 
full bath, ac, $170.00 + utilities. Also 1 bedroom, 
share bath, ac, walk in closet, $110 + utilities. 
Both share kitchen. Very nice big house. Call 
John at 421-2088 or 344-6882 for details.
Wanted: models for figure and glamour photo
graphy. Possible publication. Please send picture 
if possible. Write P.O. Box 10161, 
Pittsburgh, 15232.
general
A Test Taking Workshop, sponsored by Coun
seling & Student Development, will be held on 
Tuesday, October 12th, from 4:00 to 5:30 p.m., in 
room 126A of Porter Hall.
Artist! Writers! Creative People! Dossier needs 
you! Dossier, the creative supplement to the Tar
tan, will be holding a staff meeting on Tuesday, 
October 12 at 8:30 PM in the Tartan office, Skibo 
50. Anyone interested in being a part of this 
creative publication should attend, or call John 
Cantine at 561-6796 during the week.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Participation. v
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, October 12, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
Do you not know? Have you not heard? The 
Lord is the Everlasting God  Isaiah 40:20. Come 
join us for Bible Study at Shadyside College Fel
lowship, comer of Westminster Place and 
Amberson Ave., this Sunday, Oct. 10th, at 6:30 
p.m.
Gateway Christian Fellowship is holding weekly 
interdenominational bible studies. The womens ^
bible study meets on Thursdays at 6:30 p.m. in 6V6llTS
Morewood 1 -C-1. The mens bible study is held 
on Wednesdays at 7:30 p.m. in the basement of 
Skibo in rm. 39 (chapjel). All are invited to share 
in spirit-filled fellowship and the joy of knowing 
God. For more information call 682-7374.
Representatives of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engineers
will discuss careers in engineering and the advan
tages o professional registration. Learn how to 
arrange to take the EIT examination. Thursday, 
November 4, Skibo room 13. Stop in anytime 
between 2:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Handouts and 
application forms for the EIT examination will 
be available.
Spring Carnival Executive Committee is looking 
for committee chair people. Information at Skibo 
desk or call Pete at x8665.
Forbes Gallery  show of drawings, paintings, 
pnnts, sculpture and graphic design by Amy 
Voltz, Lenore Voltz, Reiko Yano, and Susan 
Zytka. Oct. 12-16. Hours are Tues.-Sat., 11-6 p.m. 
Forbes Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave., 578-2081.
St Basils Orthodox Christian Fellowship will 
feature the following events this week: Thursday, 
Oct. 14: Bible Study (Gospel of St. Matthew) with 
Dr. Henein, Skibo 45, 7:30 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 
16: Young Adults Retreat in Mercer, PA (for info 
call Fr. Alexander at 363-6752). Sunday, Oct. 17: 
Divine Liturgy with Patriarch Diodoros of Jerus
alem, Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall in 
Oakland, 10 a.m.
Architects: Submit your favorite work to the 
Forbes Gallery juried architectures show. Draw
ings, designs, models and all architectureoriented artwork may be submitted. Two 
submittals p>er pjerson. Work will be juried by 
distinguished local architects on Oct. 26. Further 
details will be posted throughout the campus.
Wed., Oct 13 (9 p.m.) and Sat, Oct 16 (mid.)  
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT HOUR: Boomtown Rats recorded live in concert. Every 
Thursday (6 p.m.)  WEEKLY READER: news 
and views others ignore. Everyday (8 a.m., 1 p.m., 
5 p.m., 11 p.m.)  RADIO CALENDAR: Pitts
burghs daily events. Every Mon.-Thurs. (mid.)
 JAZZ AT WRCT.
Thursday, October 14  8 pan. Israeli dancing, 
Hillel Dining Center, 315 S. Bellefield 3rd floor. 
Friday, October 15  5:30 p.m. Shabbat services, 
6:30 p.m. Dinner  please call in reservations 
621-8875, Hillel Dining Center, 315 S. Bellefield 
3rd floor. Sunday, October 17  5 p.m. Poale 
Zedek Dinner Forum. Guest speaker Frumma 
Rosenberg will speak on Abortion and birth 
control in Jewish law. Free dinner served. Hillel 
Dining Center, 315 S. Bellefield 3rd floor.
Writers, designers...Where is your CMU degree 
going to take you? Women in communications is 
sponsoring Creative Careers: A Seminar on Pub
lic Relations and Advertising. Tuesday, October 
19th at 7 p.m. in Baker Hall 231.
The New Institute of Metaphysics of Pittsburgh, 
PA is sponsoring a four-day NewAge Seminar 
entitled A Wholistic Encounter, October 13  17, 
1982 at the Ramada Inn in Breezewood, PA. This 
seminar deals with the many facets of Wholism 
as tools and techniques for spiritual enlightment. 
Twenty classes are available p>er day on subjects 
such as Sexuality and the Kundalini, Auric 
Regression, Music Therapy, Color Therapy, 
E.S.P., the Principles of Self-Healing, Tarot, 
Stress Reduction, Meditation for Children plus 
lectures, workshop, healing services, private 
counseling, meditation circles, live entertain
ment, and recreational activities. For more infor
mation and free brochure, please call 327-6465, 
561-4020 or 422-5711.
Breathless Monday, October 25. One of the most 
important films to come out erf the New Wave 
that developied in France during the early sixties. 
Jean-Paul Belmondos first major role parodies 
Humphrey Bogarts anarchic gangster. Directed 
by Jean-Luc Godard. (Jointly sponsored with the 
Department of History) French; English subti
tles; 89 minutes; black and white.
SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF THE 
DEAN, COLLEGE OF HUMANITIES AND 
SOCIAL SCIENCES.
On Golden Pond
In this first pairing of movie greats, Kather 4 
Hepburn and Henry Fonda are an elderly couj 
spending what may be their last summer 
together. Jane Fonda (their daughter) arrives 
long enough to revive old antagonisms and dr( 
off her fiances son. Together, this crotchity old 
man and abrasive boy resolve the elders anxieties 
in some of the cinemas most touching and dra. 
matic scenes. October 1
6, 8, 10, 12 pm
The Country Dance and Song Society of Pjtts. 
burgh invites you to join them in learning the 
dances of England, New England and Appall 
chia every Sunday evening in October.
The group will meet October 17,24, and 31 ^ 
the Social Hall of East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church, Highland Ave. At Penn Ave. at 
p.m.
All dances are taught. Partners are not neces
sary. Beginners are welcome.
For further information phone 362-5162 ot 
781-1345.
The Christian Arts Company will present THE 
SOWERS by Gillette Elvgren, thru October 24, 
Eastminster Presbyterian Church, 250 N. High 
land, Penn circle.
Curtain time is 8 p.m. on Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday with matinees on Sunday at 2 p.m. For 
reservations and group rates call 661-8855.
THE SOWERS will be premiered in Pittsburgh this Fall and tells the story of a small 
theatre group that pjerforms the Parables of.
Whose Life Is It Anyway?, written by Brain 
Clark, will be performed October 29 and 30, are 
November 5 and 6 at Penn Junior High on 
Road, Penn Hills. Curtain is at 8 p.m.
Tickets will be on sale at The Bookshelf, Pern 
Hills Shopping Center. Tickets will be $3.00 
bought in advance at The Bookshelf or from an 
Penn Hills Players member. After October 
tickets will only be available at the Box Office ihf 
nights of the performances, at a cost of $4.00 fa 
adults and $3.00 for Senior Citizens (over 65) am 
students. "
Audition Notice: The Pittsburgh Repertoi 
Theatre, a professional theatre company, 
announcing auditions for their produicdon c 
Godspell. The production will run the first thit 
weekends in December, preceded by a 354 wee 
evening rehearsal schedule. The company see!^ 
five men and five women between the ages of 
and 30 who can sing and dance. To schedule ai 
audition appointment, please send resume 
Dan Fallon, The Pittsburgh Repertory Theatre 
P.O. Box 4566, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15205.
Hello Out There and Waiting for Lefty will ru 
Thursday thru Saturday evenings at 8 pjn 
through October 16 at Carlow Colleges 
nian Theater. The productions are opened by th 
New Theatre Group. Tickets are $2, with a < 
count available for Carlow students, in keepin 
with the Groups desire to reach as broad-hasa 
an audience as possible. For reservations, 
431-7662.
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
3omgNdicN
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
IOWENBRAU U.. Dk -boWes
MICHELOB
BUDWElSER*
MtllER"
OID ENGUSH 800*
SCHtITZ MALT*
ON CITY*
E Rl ANGE Rbottles 
GENNESfE 
ROUING ROCK 
SCHMlDTS*
Csneag
SCHIITZ'
PEARl {Texas)bottles -
DOUBLE DARK -bottles 
BlATZ
OID MtLWAUKEE 
P1NK CHAMPALE -
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Se< A Corned BeetTu#x>*Tuffcey
SANDWICHES
HtickiocfcCo<l*Oro4jod Steok*Sousoge 
VeotCHock*CSicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Sfeofc SubsFresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizzo served till 3om
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sundoy lpm-2om 
Imports, Com. Quorts, Draft Pitchers/Mogs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKEN*MOlSON AlE*MICHELOB 
STROHS*MlllER*SCHllTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
feotured each week:
STROHSR OILING ROCK*SCHllTZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500*SCHIITZMALT*PABST
I mnAric
4b Open
I 9am-3:45am Sun-Thors 
ft 9am 4 45am Fri-Sat
ft I Coll 621 7388 or 621-1185
__ 3901 Forbes Ave. (Ooklond)
G9b 39B .G9W.E 2E WwD Ws ,ep,k
First there was the best-selling 
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the 
Galaxy! Next, the smashingly 
successful The Restaurant at 
the End of the Universe! And 
now: Life, the Universe and 
Everything  a modest book 
that guarantees to clear up every 
last little question about exis
tence.
$9.95 hardcover
emu bookstore*IN BAKER MALL
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

li
Photo by Todd Prario
cllie Carney and Brian Taubler are crowned Miss and Mr. Varsity at the 1982 Homecoming Festivities,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  Special Supplement
Mitchell says future in hands of mankind
JOE ALUMNUS
By JOANNE SAVINELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
Our scientific culture tends to believe thai 
new technology will solve mankinds prob 
lems. Yet according to Edgar Mitchell, 
todays dream will become tomorrows 
reality only when man realizes his own 
inner potential.
Mitchell, here for his 30th year reunion, 
spoke on this topic last Friday afternoon to a 
group of alumni and students. A pilot on 
the Apollo 14 Lunar Landing, he also 
served on the Apollo 10 and 16 space flights.
The human race can not think in terms of 
the entire globe or universe, said Mitchell; 
we still only think as our ancestors did, of 
our own world of a 100 mile radius. This 
narrowness of view hinders the advance
ment of ourselves and our change in 
thinking.
When youre away from the earth, you 
can see it in a different perspective, Mit
chell observed. He wants people to view 
themselves and life in a different perspective, 
and he challenges them to think.
Adults should behave in an adult manner, 
commented Mitchell, as opposed to their
current juvenile activities, such as throwing 
nuclear weapons at each other. We should 
view going to the moon as the rights of 
passage of the people of the earth into cos
mic adulthood, he said.
We still cling to the myth that man is a 
hapless, helpless victim of a hostile universe. 
At worst it does not care, said Mitchell, but 
the universe is certainly not hostile.
Our second mistake is that we take science 
and technology as our God. Every time the 
going gets tough, we take our latest technol
ogy and make a weapon out of,it, said 
Mitchell. Sooner or later were going to use 
it. Technology should only be used as a
tool to solve problems, and is not the answer 
itself. I have the greatest confidence that 
human beings, when they are threatened, 
can find creative solutions to every prob
lem, he added.
Mitchell believes that young people today 
are challenging the dogmas and traditions 
of the past. He encourages us to find our 
own new belief system, and to act upon it, 
because as co-creators of our world, we have 
the power to change it.
Kellie Camey winner erf this years Miss Varsity crown is congratulated by Edgar Mitchell, Apollo 14 pilot and first CMU alumnus (30 years 
to walk on the moon.
Miss and Mr. VarsityCamey and Taubler crowned
KEPilI
% BenJ coma Xo 
WSiTfllN6S fft 
l FryFIVE 1Ef\R5 
AND X 3osi
6KADU/VTED f
By LAURIE SCHORR
Tartan Staffwriter
The contestwinners for Mr. and Miss Var
sity were announced during the half-time 
festivities for the Homecoming Game, on 
Saturday, October 9. The happy Miss and 
Mr. Varsity for this year are Kellie Camey 
and Brian Taubler.
All contenders for the tide participated in 
the Homecoming parade, and were intro
duced during half-time. Distinguished 
guests from the Alumni Firsts took the 
honor of introducing the winners.
SARC, the organizers of the contest, sent 
letters to all the clubs and organizations on 
campus, as well as to all the RAs of the
residence halls. They were asked to anonym
ously nominate the 11 girls and 11 guys that
they thought were the most popular on cam
pus. Then the lists were compared and a 
final roster (of 11 each) was selected, contain
ing all those who were named at least 
three times. The candidates attended a
special reception in their honor and submit
ted to being photographed. CMU students
viewed the results and selected the final 
winners by a general election.
All of the candidates received a wide var
iety of gifts and prizes upon being nomi
nated. The new Mr. and Miss Varsity
CHMMTy\Syou*
received, in addition, more prizes valu 
over a hundred dollars each, and a chance t< 
ride in a Rolls Royce.
The 11 candidates for Miss Varsity wen 
Holly Biertempfel (86), Kellie Camey (85) 
Primy Chang (83), Deidre Dennis (83), Su 
Devoy (86), Kim Dziak (83), Colleei 
Kennedy (84), Susan Moskovitz(84), Elaiix 
Seth (83), Lorraine Stipula (83), and Holl] 
Wiles (85). The candidates for Mr. Varsity 
were Larry Berger (83), Jay Loomis (83) 
Joel Reinhardt (85), Gerard Sansosti (84), 
Jim Stuart (83), Brian Taubler (84), Rol 
Vaupel (84), John Venzon (83), Chris 
Wargo (83), John Wooldridge (83), am 
Paul Wyncoop (83).

---------------------------------------------------

Special Supplement  Page 3
Competitions end,announced
TOP: Mike Mathews of Theta Xi and 
Yvonne Chi of Kappa Kappa Gamma 
accept awards for their winning floats. 
Not pictured - David Jeffery, float chair
man of Phi Kappa Theta.
Left Last Fridays video game competition packed (Man) Skibo 
etition packed (Man) Skibos room 11.
by Mark Levine
f D\D You x
KMOw THAT 
> /YtoMMi mkiof-sarOkJTR\^0'ttorJsyTo

---------------------------------------------------

Wimm
>V' -iJ
' >
Coach Chuck Klausing talks to running backs (26) Brad Huwar and (30) Jim 
Morrison during Saturdays game.
Alumnus Rolls in to the parade,
Used furniture gives its all fofj

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTOS BY
John Stilwell 
Gene Yonish 
Owen Lloyd 
John Wadsworth 
Adam DeBellis 
Donald Starver 
Dave Stitt
Todd Prario 
George Tsao-Wu 
Bob Fishel 
Jonathon Feroce 
Clarke V. Simmons 
N.S. Vecci 
Brian Yen
Deanna Silverman clowns around at the Roast.
Loretta Stanish shows some spirit at the game.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  Special Supplement
PanHd balloons rise, raise 
money for womens center
By MONICA J. CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Panhel, the organization of the five sorori
ties on campus, raised over $200 for a local 
womens center this weekend with its bal
loon contest.
Each balloon had a postcard attached to it 
with the name and address of the person 
who sent it. The object of the contest is to see 
whose balloon travels the farthest before 
The person who sent the balloon 
up, as well as the person who mails the card 
back in, will receive a gift certificate to Kaufmanns Department Store. The balloons 
were sold to members of the CMU communfor a dollar each.
The contest was the project of the Panhel 
who number over 50. Diana Silver
man, Panhel chairman and a sister at Chi 
This is a good way for the 
pledges to get to know each other and to 
serve the community.
The proceeds of the contest went to the 
Oakland Womens Center, an organization 
which helps women through important, 
decision-making stages of their lives. They
provide career guidance, personal counsel
ing, educational counseling, and several 
support groups covering topics such as 
weight loss, financial planning, Gestalt psy
chology, rock climbing, yoga, and self 
defense.
Silverman added, This is the first Panhel 
fundraiser in a long time. In the past, she 
said, pledge classes have performed activities 
for the community, such as painting and 
cleaning for local organizations, but that 
these have usually been services and not 
fundraising.
We wanted to help a womens organiza
tion, Silverman said, since we are sorori
ties and women should help each other. 
She added that Panhel received a great deal 
of support from students and alumni. We 
released over 500 balloons, she said. It 
really was successful.
The sororities can work together, Sil
verman added. We arent competing with 
each other, and we arent out to cut each 
others throats.
The winners of the contest will be 
announced when they are known, Silver
man said.
Mini-lecture series
Professor discusses diabetes
photo by John Stihvefl
CMU Panhel women release 500 balloons. Each balloon was sponsored for a dollar and the 
proceeds went to the Oakland Womens Center. They raised an estimated $200.
By TINA ELLERBEE
Tartan Staffwriter
Diabetes, a disease which according to sta
tistics will affect 5% of all CMU students at 
some time in their lives, was the subject of a 
presentation given by Dr. W.M. Kozak on 
Saturday as part of a Homecoming minilectuie series.
Kozak, professor of physiology and bio
engineering, discussed his research of 
juvenile-onset diabetes, the second leading
cause of blindness in the U.S. Kozaks 
research centers on the prevention of 
diabetes-related blindness through early 
detection and treatment. In collaboration 
with doctors at Shadyside Hospital, Kozak 
uses a technique called electroretinography 
to measure the eyes reaction to light. His 
studies show that diabetes can affect this 
reaction within two weeks of onset. This is 
why early detection is so important.
Kozak ended the lecture by entertaining 
questions from the audience.Forbes Gallery Features EtevenAhimni
It was very encouraging, said Reiko 
Yano, senior graphic design major, of the 
Eleven Alumni show in exhibit at Forbes 
Gallery during Homecoming week.
The show featured works by Hugh 
Kepets, Lynn Markcrvsky, George Morris, 
George Nama, James Nelson, Shalom Noiman, Philip Pearlstein, Richard Rappaport, Teresa Rozewski, David Schirm, and 
Andy Warhol.
This week, the Forbes Gallery offers Visa-Vis, which runs from today through the 
16th.
The following is a review of the upcom
ing show.
Ed.
By SARAH RATCHYE
Special for the Tartan
Drawings, paintings, prints, sculpture 
and graphic design make up an exhibit at 
Forbes Gallery that invites comparison. The 
shows theme, Vis-a-Vis, challenges the 
viewer to see the harmony and 
tension between the various 
^ works.
The interesting opposition is 
particularly evident in the approaches of 
two designers, Reiko Yano and Lenore
Voltz, to the creation of a photography 
book. Ms. Voltzs book, The Haircut, is a 
humorous, pictorial narrative of this tem
poral rite. The high contrast, textural pic
tures are placed on each page according to a 
staccato, clapping rhythm.
Negative arid positive space and the 
portrait-subject is powerfully and poetically 
arranged in Ms. Yanos wood-cuts. In her 
self-portrait pictured here, she has included 
a Japanese poem.
In addition to graphic design, Lenore 
Voltz is also exhibiting her sculpture. Large 
pieces erf unravelled barge rope, rewrapped 
in black, variously textured threads, embody 
the artists rhythmic sense. The work is play
ful, tactile, and humorous, in its abrupt con
trasts erf texture, shape and color.
Susan Zytka pursued her interests this 
past summer while studying outside erf
The Haircut is a mexlem, photographic 
poem. The well-known story and images 
have been transformed by structure and
rhythm into art.
In contrast, Reiko Yanos book, Pearls, is 
a quiet, almost severe photographic presen
tation. Each spread, or group of two facing 
pages, is an ordered arrangement of photo
graphs of Oriental objects, Japanese calli
graphy and white space.
The book is a portrait of Ms. Yanos reverance for and understanding of the beauty 
and powerful simplicity of such objects as a 
teapot or a small Japanese playing card.
artist has built up a highly textured, layered, 
surface that both hides and is supported by 
the color and the plastic qualities of paint 
underneath. The artist paints in the paint. 
The paintings exist as a collaborative mon
ument to paint and the artist. The collabora
tion is close, supportive and strong. And 
each painting, independent of its creators, 
stands on its own as art.
The show will run from October 12th 
through the 16th. I invite the reader to see 
the show and see the differences and similar
ities between the art exhibited.
Toronto, Canada at Sheridan Colleges 
International Summer School of Anima
tion. Her paintings and drawings, conseVince Guinto helps show the scale of damage done to CMU Tartan goal post the 
before the homecoming game. The posts were fixed that night
quendy reflect single frames from narrative 
films. Most of the pictures are allegorical. A 
climactic moment is captured in the figures
fierce, excited expressions and their stran
gely enlivened environments. As with many 
films, dialogue or narrative description is 
important for interpretation. Likewise, 
Susans tides help guide the viewer into her 
pictures worlds.
In contrast to Ms. Zytkas figurative and 
colorful pictures, Amy Voltzs paintings are 
abstract and almost monochromatic. The

---------------------------------------------------

Special Supplement  Page 7Cyert on CMU: innovative future
Bv ALICE ALFONSI
Tartan Editar-in-Chirf
There is support for me to go on, 
said President Richard Cyert at his 
annual State of the University address 
last Saturday.
According to Cyert, I originally 
planned to leave this position after ten 
years, but now I will stay for a minimum 
of three years or a maximum of five. In 
that period, I intend to get out of the 
presidency and give some new blood the 
opportunity.
Cyert said he made this decision 
because of encouragement from the 
Board of Trustees and a favorable report 
from the special faculty committee to 
evaluate the president. The committees 
report is constructive said Cyert, it is a 
good summary of information, and it 
will help me to go further in improving 
this university.
CMU has made progress over the last 
five years, according to Cyert, who con
siders this student body one of the 
brightest.
Boasting about CMUs public rela
tions, Cyert said, We have had more 
national news stories about CMU in the 
last two years than ever before. He listed 
articles published about the university in 
such publications as The New York 
Times, Washington Post, Chicago Trib
une, Wall Street Journal, Science, and 
i Newsweek.
CMU is now a member of The Ameri
can Association of Universities which 
includes public and private universities 
involved in research. According to Cyert, 
CMU was elected into the AAU by the 
universities which are already members. 
Said Cyert, all the universities in it 
arent good, but all the good universities 
are in it.
Cyert spoke of possible clouds on the 
enrollment horizen. Although this 
years number of applications is higher 
than in past years, Cyert is concerned that 
next years $7500 tuition combined with 
fewer students graduating from high 
school may effect enrollment.
Research is a major area of considera
tion. Cyert expects Computer Science 
and Robotics to bring in outside con
tracts. The Department of Defense, 
says Cyert, could double our research in 
the next two years, but there is a question 
of space.
Space, according to Cyert along 
with equipment are two of CMUs main 
problems. Undergraduate equipment 
should be improved.
Another area of concern, brought up 
by an alumnus after the address, is the 
problem of bad teaching. Every depart
ment head knows who the bad teachers 
ire, says Cyert, and we know where the 
bad departments are.
In his address, Cyert mentioned a plan 
r a new center to help improve the 
teaching on campus. A Faculty Devel
opment Center is to be headed by Edwin 
Fenton a professor of history and philo
sophy at CMU. According to Cyert, the 
-enter plans to use video equipment to 
record classes. The center will take peo
ple who are not good teachers and 
develop their methods.
Cyert said, I have tried to emphasize 
the importance of teaching to the faculty. 
1 he Ryan awards are a source of encour
agement. Added Cyert after the address, 
we have not hesitated to say to an 
instructor, your teaching is terrible, and 
we are not going to raise your salary. 
The plan for CMUs acquiring of per
sonal computers for every student seems 
definite. We are convinced, said Cyert, 
that people have to have personal com
puters. CMU is going to have a system 
where every student will have a personal 
computer. By the end of the month, 
CMU will be signing a contract with 
either IBM or Digital Equipment for the 
providing of personal computers to the 
university. According to Cyert, it will 
probably be IBM although we are still 
talking to DEC.
Cyert is optimistic that the personal 
computer project will put CMU three to 
five years ahead of other universities. He 
believes that in the future a university 
will be judged not by its library but by its 
computer capabilities. And he wants 
CMU to be an innovator. Networking 
is the aspect that will make it possible. 
Each computer will be connected with 
the others on campus as well as the main 
system so that mailing and teacher/stu
dent communications  grading papers 
on a computer  will be possible.
The cost of a personal computer, 
according to Cyert, is around $6000. The 
cost to each student will be $3000 over a 4 
year period, but the student can take the 
computer with him upon graduation.
Other plans for the future include 
teaching students more about manufac
turing  how to produce things more 
efficiently. With our work in the Robot
ics Institute and our knowledge of pro
duction, said Cyert, we hope to put a 
curriculum together especially for the 
studying of manufacturing.
Cyert also expects to see expansion in 
the Department of Philosophy. Talented 
faculty will be used in specializing the 
department in logic with the methodol
ogy of the social sciences, said Cyert.
When asked about the benefits of uni
versity owned patents, Cyert explained, 
patents are a snare and an illusion for 
universities because costs generally 
exceed revenues. Copyrights on soft
ware, however, are expected to be a good 
investment. Cyert said that CMUs cur
rent patent/copyright policy is being 
rewritten. Refering to copyrights on soft
ware, Cyert said, we think the university 
should get something out of it.
CMU is attempting to form eight to ten 
firms to do research in magnetic record
ing. In this, Cyert hopes to sell more uni
versities on the concept that industries 
should cooperate rather than compete in 
industrial research. He is currently work
ing out the aspects which may conflict 
with any antitrust laws.
You can see the amazing Pittsburgh Scenes (Set 6) created with matte graphics, pluslive demonstrations: 
calligraphy, water color, oils, acrylic paintings, and air brushing at the Pittsburgh Convention Center, 10th & Penn October 13 (11-7 pm) October 14 (10-6 pm)
Sponsored by
Top Notch 
Art & Engineering 
Materials 
Show & Seminar
FREE admission!
RICHARD CYERT
Computer Science 
& Electrical Engineering 
Majors...
ROLM, with locations in the San Francisco Bay 
Area and Austin, Texas, seeks talented individuals 
interested in:
SOFTWARE
 5gsRCbimg omhndirw
 3iNdai7ndgt .lNdgmN
 9hgasdirw .lNdgmN
 3sds usNg :srswgmgrd .lNdgmN
 3sds ommnricsdiorN
 3iswroNdicN
 SRgcdaoric :siR
 .odFsag booRNV omhiRgaN# 3g7nwwgaN# gdcE
 bgNd Srwirggairw
 .nhhoad Srwirggairw
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969, has experienced a 
growth rate exceeding 70% a year and currently has more 
than 5200 employees. ROLM is the leading independent 
supplier of computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems and has been a pioneer in devel
oping computers which operate successfully in severe 
environments.
Included in ROLM's outstanding benefits package are:
 Giw'Rl comhgdidiqg 7sNg NsRsaigNE
 Waoid N'sairw srt Ndoc hnac'sNg hRsrNE
 omhag'grNiqg 'gsRd'# tgrdsR srt Rig irNnasrcg 
haowasmNE
 b'agg mord' hsit Ns77sdicsR sdga Ni> lgsaNE
 bnidior agim7naNgmgrd oa wastnsdg Ndntl sd Rgstirw 
nriqgaNidigNE
 O agcagsdior cgrdga nrNnahsNNgt ir idN sciRidigN srt 
sqsiRs7Rg haowasmNE
On Campus Interviews
b'naNtsl# 9cdE pv# Iaitsl# 9cdE p1E
:ggd Fid' ona NodFsag grwirgga aom 59L: ir 
d'g WRscgmgrd grdgaE .gg ona omhsrl Ridgas*
dnag ir d'g WRscgmgrd grdgaE
If unable to attend an interview, send resume to:
Tim Dorman, Corporate Employment Manager, ROLM 
Corporation, 4900 Old Ironsides Drive, M/S 105, Santa 
Clara, CA 95050. We are an equal opportunity/affirmative 
action employer.
95W95Ob92

---------------------------------------------------

Plage 8  Special Supplement
MISSING. . .
One jet black camera 
Tripod! If found please 
return to The Tartan.
Take Charge At 22.
In most jobs, at 22 
youre near the bottom 
of the ladder.
In the Navy, at 
22 you can be a leader.
After just 16 weeks 
of leadership training, 
youre an officer. Youll 
have the kind of job 
your education and training prepared 
you for, and the decision-making au
thority you need to make the most of it.
As a college graduate and officer 
candidate, your Navy training is geared 
to making you a leader. There is no boot 
camp. Instead, you receive professional 
training to help you build the technical 
and management skills youll need as a 
Navy officer.
This training is. 
designed to instill 
confidence by first
hand experience. You 
learn by doing. On 
your first sea tour, 
youre responsible for
managing the work of 1 $Year in College, 
up to 30 men and the I ?Major/Minor_
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Im ready to take charge. Tell me more about 
the Navys officer programs. (0G)
Name_
Address.
City____
Age-------
State.
tCollege/U n i versi ty_
care of sophisticated 
equipment worth 
millions of dollars.
Its a bigger chal
lenge and a lot more 
responsibility than 
most corporations give 
you at 22. The rewards 
are bigger, too. Theres 
a comprehensive package of benefits, 
including special duty pay. The starting 
salary is $16,400 more than most com
panies would pay you right out of college. 
After four years, with regular promo
tions and pay increases, your salary will 
have increased to as much as $29,800.
As a Navy officer, you grow, through 
new challenges, new tests of your skills,
and new opportunities 
to advance your edu
cation, including the 
possibility of attending 
graduate school while 
youre in the Navy.
Dont just take a 
job. Become a Navy 
officer, and take charge. 
Even at 22.
W 212
(Please Pr.int) Last
__________Apt. #---------
.Zip_
.?GPA_
Phone Number______________________________________
(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur
nish any of the information requested Of course, the more we 
know, tne more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which ypu qualify.Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
