PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
December 5, 2011
Volume 106, Issue 14
Both Hollywood movies, indie ? lms vie for Academy Award nominations  B6
Executive branch of student government conspicuously absent during semester  A8
FORUMSCITECH
Researchers look deeper into science behind peoples snack choices  A5
Faculty, students discuss FCEs
SUJAYA BALACHANDRAN
Junior Staffwriter
As the fall 2011 semester 
at Carnegie Mellon draws 
to a close, Faculty Course 
Evaluations (FCEs) are 
made available to students 
to evaluate courses and professors. Students responses 
will be reviewed by the university, which uses them to 
make decisions regarding 
course curricula and faculty 
promotion.
In an email, University 
Registrar John R. Papinchak 
explained the signi? cance 
of FCEs and the importance 
of students feedback. 
Faculty Course Evaluations  are a major source 
of teaching feedback to 
instructors, he said. An 
overwhelming majority of 
instructors read and seriously take to heart what 
students report on the evaluations. Your feedback can 
lead faculty to revise teaching methods, change textbooks, revise assignments 
and make other changes to 
help you learn.
Papinchak also spoke 
about FCEs repercussions 
for Carnegie Mellon faculty. Department heads 
and deans also review the 
course evaluations and use 
this information as one 
measure of teaching that 
contributes to decisions 
concerning faculty promotions.
FCEs allow students to 
rate courses and professors 
in nine core areas, in which 
they assign a rating of one 
to ? ve  one is the poorest 
rating, while ? ve is the most 
superior rating. 
On the Carnegie Mellon 
website for Faculty Course 
Evaluations, there is speci? c information regarding 
the FCE process, including a Frequently Asked 
Questions (FAQ) section. 
Among other things, the 
site addresses student privacy. The site assures students that FCE results are 
published anonymously 
once students complete the 
survey. 
Faculty members, such 
as professors and advisers, 
also have a vested interest in 
the FCE process: tenure and 
promotion decisions are, in 
part, dependent upon students course ratings. Jared 
Day, adjunct professor and 
research associate in the department of history, voiced 
Cohon forum updates campus
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
University President 
Jared Cohon held an open 
forum on Tuesday on Carnegie Mellon policies and actions. 
He addressed the upcoming end of his term as 
president, the universitys 
response to the Pennsylvania State University incident, and other issues pertaining to the current state 
of the school. 
Sponsored by Staff 
Council and held in Rangos 
3, the forum had an audience of roughly 40 individuals, almost all of whom were 
faculty or staff members.
Things are going very 
well for the university in 
every respect, Cohon began optimistically in his 
opening statement, which 
contained details regarding 
his recent travels abroad as 
well as Carnegie Mellons 
recent of? cial communication sent in response to the 
Penn State controversy. 
Cohon is set to step 
down from his position 
as university president on 
June 30, 2013. He outlined 
the search process for a new 
president and how it will be 
conducted, but emphasized 
his continued active role in 
the university by joking, I 
am not a lame duck, I am 
not a lame duck, I am not a 
lame duck.
Cohon revealed that he 
plans to remain at the university after stepping down 
from his role as president, 
citing his continued involvement with the civil and environmental engineering 
and engineering and public 
policy departments along 
with his continued love of 
teaching. 
Cohon also covered the 
recent of? cial communication regarding the universitys commitment to the 
health, safety and welfare 
of ... students, faculty, staff, 
alumni and guests, sent 
out via email on Nov. 29.
Prompted by the recent 
events at Penn State, the 
message contained information and instructions for 
any member of the university community who witnesses an ethical violation.
As Cohon elaborated, the 
university has a good, solid 
set of procedures which 
should cover any ethical, 
moral, or legal breach you 
can think of. He also stated 
that individuals should not 
be constrained by the structure and processes in place, 
and that if a violation of ethics occurs, students should 
immediately report it to the 
police. 
Coupled with this information, however, was an 
announcement both in the 
email and at the forum that 
a new committee headed 
by university Vice President 
and General Counsel Mary 
Jo Dively and Vice President 
for Campus Affairs Michael 
Murphy will be created to 
review Carnegie Mellons 
existing policies and draft 
new ones. 
Cohon reminded the 
attendees that a hotline 
already exists for such matOM honors Gandhi with portrait in UC
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
A portrait of Mahatma 
Gandhi alongside a commemorative plaque was installed in 
the Andys Eatery area of the 
University Center basement 
last Wednesday. A brief ceremony dedicating the portrait 
and plaque was held.
An eye for an eye makes 
the whole world blind, one 
of Gandhis most well-known 
sayings, is printed at the bottom of the portrait. Gandhi 
was the political and spiritual leader who helped lead a 
peaceful Indian revolt against 
British colonial rule.
Blue and yellow streamers 
were hung across the portrait 
before being cut by the president of Carnegie Mellons Indian spirituality organization 
OM, Archit Kumar, a junior 
double majoring in information systems and decision science. A small group gathered 
to watch the unveiling, while 
other students went about 
their business working or 
opening packages.
After Gandhi Jayanti in 
October we worked with the 
dean of Student Affairs [and] 
with Marcia [Gerwig] and the 
University Center crew to get 
a picture of Mahatma Gandhi 
up somewhere in the University Center, Kumar said. [Its] 
a reminder of everything that 
Gandhi-jhi has done.
The portrait can be found 
next to the Giving Wall in 
between the package pickup 
window and the FedEx and 
PNC Bank branches. The 
space has a television as well 
as tables and seating. Kumar 
said that the area was chosen 
because [it] is really for the 
students, this entire area.... 
Its a place where students 
have freedom of expression ... 
where they have full expression of themselves. 
As he gave a brief address 
to those gathered to watch the 
commemoration, Kumar emphasized a lesser-known Gandhi quote: In a gentle way, 
you can shake the world. 
While the portrait is not 
on the same scale as a hunger strike or other forms of 
civil disobedience, Kumar 
expressed hope that the picture would serve both as a reminder of Gandhis work and 
as inspiration for others to 
emulate.
Online Gaming Society socializes at Late Night
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellons Online 
Gaming Society (OGS) held 
a late night LAN party in the 
University Center on Saturday 
night. A dozen students gathered to play games like Starcraft, League of Legends, and 
Super Smash Bros. Melee; eat 
chips and soda; and hang out.
Its just kind of a way for 
people to meet, hang out, and 
make new friends, said senior math major Mark Magsino, the president of OGS. 
Magsino said that, despite the 
name of the club, most of their 
events involve of? ine games.
Attendees of the event said 
that they go to OGS events to 
socialize, and not necessarily 
to play games.
The people are really nice 
to talk to, which is the primary 
reason to go to events, said 
Michael Chan, a junior biology major. Most games that 
we play are for two people at 
most, so theres no need to 
meet up.
OGS Treasurer Kyle Magsino, a sophomore mechanical 
engineering major and brother of the groups president, 
agreed. For some games, like 
Starcraft and League of Legends, its a lot more fun when 
you have the people there 
who youre playing with. Like, 
you can laugh when you beat 
them.
In addition to playing 
games, attendees watched 
online videos, caught up with 
friends, and traded advice 
on gameplay. According to 
the younger Magsino, OGS 
also raf? ed off several prizes, 
including two gaming keyboards and a copy of The Elder 
Scrolls V: Skyrim.
The elder Magsino said 
OGS welcomes everyone to 
its events. Our club is open 
to everyone, even if youre just 
a casual gamer. Everythings 
more fun with other people 
around.
Madelyn Glymour/Assistant News Editor
The Online Gaming Society (OGS) hosted a UC Late Night event last 
Saturday, where students were welcome to play a plethora of games.
Jessica Sochol/Staff
The OM spiritual group hung a plaque and portrait of Gandhi in the 
basement of the University Center last Wednesday.
See COHON, A3
Jonathan Carreon/Staff
World AIDS Day is a day of observance for those af? icted with HIV or AIDS. The Pittsburgh community celebrated last Thursday night with a 
candlelight vigil on the corner of Morewood and Forbes Avenues, and proceeded to march down Forbes Avenue. Later that night, the community 
further celebrated with the 24th Annual World AIDS Day Memorial Service event. The memorial took place at the Heinz Memorial Chapel. 
Other events were held throughout the week, such as the Red Ribbon Gala and a press conference with Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. According to 
www.aids.gov, the World Health Organization established World AIDS Day in 1988, and it has been celebrated annually around the world ever since.
See FCES, A3See GANDHI, A3
CMU observes World AIDS Day

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  December 5, 2011
Health Care Finance: 
Lunch & Learn 
Presentation with 
Professor Gaynor
Monday at noon
Hamburg Hall 1004
Carnegie Mellon health 
economist and founding 
Chairman of the New U.S. 
Health Care Cost Institute 
Dr. Martin Gaynor will be 
featured at this session of 
the Heinz Health Care Club. 
The Health Care Cost Institute aims to use its access to 
private health care insurers 
spending data to interpret 
and predict the current and 
future status of health care in 
the United States.
Gaynor and the Heinz 
Health Care Club seek to 
uncover what factors lead 
to the increasing health care 
costs in the U.S., why there is 
variation in health care costs 
between private providers, 
and how the prices of insurance are set for people under 
the age of 65.
HCII Lecture: Elizabeth 
F. Churchill, The 
Playground of the 
Internet: Where Social 
Science and Design are 
BFFs
Monday at 4:30 p.m.
Rashid Auditorium,    
Hillman Center 4401
Elizabeth Churchill, the 
principal research scientist 
and manager of the Internet 
Experiences group at Yahoo! 
Research, will discuss her ongoing research and ? ndings 
in human-computer interaction (HCI) and the challenges 
facing the ? eld of HCI.
Churchill focuses on 
the ways in which people 
communicate and connect 
through technology and interactive media. She studies 
and designs technologies that 
encourage community, communication, collaboration, 
coordination, and creativity.
Additionally, Churchill 
has co-chaired several academic conferences. She has 
also many published professional papers and books covering her research in HCI and 
psychology.
The American 
Experience Distinguished 
Lecture Series: Robert 
D. Reischauer, This Time 
Really Will be Different: 
Adapting to Fiscal 
Reality
Tuesday at 4 p.m.
OHara Student Center, 
University of Pittsburgh
Economist Robert D. 
Reischauer, president of the 
Urban Institute and former 
director of the Congressional Budget Of? ce, will be the 
featured speaker at this University of Pittsburgh lecture. 
Reischauer is a nationally 
known expert on the federal 
budget, Medicare, and Social 
Security. 
Based out of Washington, 
D.C., the Urban Institute is a 
non-partisan economic think 
tank that has recently published on topics such as Medicare and Medicaid funding 
for the chronically ill, health 
care quality improvement initiatives, Social Security bene? t reductions, ? at tax proposals, and unemployment 
insurance. 
Former Pennsylvania 
Governor Dick Thornburgh, 
also former attorney general 
of the United States and undersecretary general to the 
United Nations, will moderate audience discussion. This 
event is open to the public, 
but reservations are required.
Compiled by
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Corrections & Clari? cations
In the Campus News in Brief article Students win 
Capture the Flag security competition (News, Nov. 
21), the students majors and years were incorrect. Tyler 
Nighswander is a junior double majoring in physics and 
computer science, Matt Dickoff is a senior in electrical 
and computer engineering, Andrew Wesie graduated 
with a computer science degree last year, Ricky Zhou is 
a senior in computer science, and Brian Pak is a graduate student in computer science.
If you would like to submit a correction or clari? cation, please e-mail The Tartan at news@thetartan.org 
or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as 
the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari? cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
The Gates Hillman 
Complex was awarded goldlevel LEED certi? cation 
last Friday. Established by 
the U.S. Green Building 
Council (USGBC), the 
LEED certi? cation awards 
recognize buildings that 
incorporate a variety of 
sustainable strategies under 
strict standards for energy 
use, lighting, and water and 
material use.
The Gates and Hillman 
centers LEED certi? cation 
demonstrates tremendous 
green building leadership, 
said Rick Fedrizzi, president 
and CEO of USGBC, in a university press release. The 
urgency of USGBCs mission 
has challenged the industry to move faster and reach 
further than ever before, and 
the Gates and Hillman project serves as a prime example 
with just how much we can 
accomplish.
The buildings include systems for collecting about half 
a million gallons of rainwater 
and snowmelt each year. Using this water to ? ush toilets, 
and installing low-? ow lavatories and low-? ush urinals, 
the designers and contractors 
were able to cut potable water usage in half.
The Gates Hillman Complexs construction doubled 
the amount of green space 
in the area around campus. 
All surface parking was replaced by a 150-space underground garage. The complex 
also features a winter garden. 
Landscaping was designed 
by Michael Van Valkenburgh 
Associates of Brooklyn, N.Y., 
and Cambridge, Mass.
The annual Building Virtual Worlds Show (BVW) will 
move off campus for the ? rst 
time this year. It will be hosted at the Carnegie Music Hall 
in Homestead this Wednesday.
Admission is free and the 
doors at the hall, located at 
510 East 10th Ave. in Munhall, will open at 3:15 p.m. 
with pre-show activities. The 
show will of? cially begin at 4 
p.m.
BVW 2011 will give students in the Building Virtual 
Worlds class at the universitys Entertainment Technology Center (ETC) the opportunity to showcase their latest 
ideas and projects in interactive digital technology. 
The student teams, consisting of both technically and 
artistically minded members, 
have created projects that use 
digital technology to tell stories, explore the interactive 
medium, and play games.
Mk Haley, associate executive producer of the ETC, is 
proud to be a part of the BVW 
show.
BVW gives us a chance 
to show off the work of our 
talented students to an audience that will include entertainment industry executives, she said in a Carnegie 
Mellon press release. Its always been hard to accommodate everybody who wants to 
see the show, but moving it to 
this large hall in Homestead 
will give the general public 
a great opportunity to join in 
the fun.
Compiled by
EMILY DOBLER
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Gates, Hillman buildings 
awarded LEED certi? cationBuilding Virtual Worlds 11 chooses new show venue
FEATURE PHOTOKiltie Band plays concert for holiday season
Theft
Nov. 17, 2011
A female student reported 
to University Police of? cers 
that her Android cell phone 
was stolen from a shelf while 
she was working out in the 
weight room of the University 
Center. She did not see anyone in the area where the cell 
phone was being kept. The 
case is under investigation.
Amnesty
Nov. 20, 2011
Carnegie Mellon police 
and EMS were dispatched to 
Donner House for a student 
who had been at a party on 
Beeler Street. The student was 
highly intoxicated and had become ill. Alcohol amnesty was 
granted and no citations were 
issued.
Odor of Marijuana
Nov. 20, 2011
Of? cers responded to the 
Morewood Gardens dormitory for a report of an odor of 
marijuana. Upon arrival, of? -
cers found a small amount of 
marijuana and issued a citation for disorderly conduct.
Theft
Nov. 20, 2011
A student reported that 
his laptop was stolen from 
Morewood Gardens E Tower 
lounge. It had been left unattended for approximately 12 
hours. The case is under investigation.
Warrant Service
Nov. 21, 2011
University Police was 
asked to assist a constable 
who had come to serve a warrant to, and potentially arrest, 
a student who had failed to 
respond to a citation and pay 
his parking ? nes. Of? cers assisted in locating the student, 
who was then given the opportunity to pay the $243 in 
? nes to avoid arrest. The ? nes 
were paid. 
Rooftop Party
Nov. 21, 2011
At 8:45 p.m., Carnegie 
Mellon of? cers were alerted 
to people who were on the 
rooftop of the University 
Center. Of? cers located three 
students, who had found a 
way onto the roof and were 
smoking cigars for having 
completed their coursework 
after a series of all nighters. 
The students were escorted 
back inside and were issued 
verbal warnings. The students 
were also informed that their 
actions violated the Universitys community standards 
and that the case would be 
handled internally.
Theft
Nov. 23, 2011
University Police responded to Baker Hall for a theft 
report. A laptop was reported 
stolen while left in a lecture 
room overnight. The room is 
believed to have been locked 
following the lecture. This 
case is under investigation.
Criminal Mischief
Nov. 25, 2011
While on patrol, a Carnegie Mellon of? cer discovered that the entry gate arm 
to the East Campus Garage 
was damaged. A check of the 
garages interior for a suspect 
vehicle proved negative. The 
garage was closed until repairs could be made.
Campus Crime & Incident
Anna Walsh/Pillbox Editor
The Kiltie Band removed its usual kilts in favor of more standard attire for its holiday concert, held in the University Center last Thursday. Chairs 
? lled Wean Commons to accommodate the large size of the band, as well as audience members. Some of the bands song selections included The 
Festival of Channukah and Sleigh Ride.

---------------------------------------------------

December 5, 2011  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
support for the FCE surveys, 
but also expressed concern 
about their implementation. 
Day said in an email, I think 
they are essential benchmarking tools in modern academics and at Carnegie Mellon, 
especially.
He added, however, that 
students are not required to 
? ll them out. Thus, they are 
often magnets for the most 
disgruntled students in any 
given class. If I were going to 
reform one thing about the 
system, I would say students 
should be required to ? ll them 
out in order to get their grades 
at the end of the semester. At 
least then you have a full picture. 
According to past FCE results, the college with the 
highest rate of FCE return in 
spring 2011 was CIT, where 
63 percent of possible FCEs 
were ? lled out. The college 
with the lowest rate of return 
was CFA, with 41 percent.
Joe Selinger, a junior 
chemical engineering major, 
agreed that FCEs can be misleading. I dont really think 
its a good measure, because 
professors quality can vary a 
lot. It would be good if [the 
evaluations] were unanimously awful, but thats it. 
Professors are just hard, so 
they get negative reviews because of that. Selinger said 
that he rarely takes FCEs seriously unless he especially 
likes or dislikes a professor.
He also said that he is not 
convinced of the usefulness 
of FCEs. I think theres a fair 
amount of belief that they 
dont really have much value, 
especially with older professors who, if you give them 
negative feedback, still dont 
really change their habits, 
Selinger said.
Others cited different 
problems with FCEs. Danny 
Davis, a sophomore double 
majoring in linguistics and 
chemistry, believes that FCE 
surveys for new courses must 
be created sooner, and the 
results disseminated more 
quickly. 
He said via an online questionnaire, I ? nd them very 
useful, but I ? nd it kind of 
inconvenient that the results 
arent posted for such a long 
time. Half my classes are either new enough or have a 
new enough professor so that 
they dont have any evaluations at all.
ters. Students can call (877) 
700-7050 or go online to 
www.reportit.net to report 
any ethical issues.
The opening remarks 
also described Cohons trip 
to Asia, where he attended 
alumni events in Seoul, South 
Korea; Tokyo; and Beijing. 
Cohon recalled these events 
in a very favorable light, stating that attendance at these 
alumni events was twice as 
large as usual. 
He also discussed Carnegie Mellons new partnership 
with Sun Yat-sen University, 
and Carnegie Mellons current ? nancial situation. In 
the last ? scal year, the university turned a pro? t, and has a 
good outlook due to contributions such as the Dietrich 
gift, which Cohon estimated 
would produce signi? cant 
sums of money for the university in the foreseeable future.
Cohon also answered presubmitted and impromptu 
questions from the audience.
The question prompting 
the greatest amount of discussion regarded the Morewood parking garage and its 
role in the master plan currently being considered by 
the city, speci? cally potential 
increases in parking costs and 
temporary parking relocation 
while the new underground 
parking structures are being 
constructed. 
Vice President for Campus Affairs Michael Murphy 
responded that off-site parking with shuttles to campus 
would be a likely solution, but 
that other options are still being considered.
However, some attendees 
remained discontent with the 
transportation situation, with 
one audience member calling 
out, If [Morewood] becomes 
a $100 lot, Im screwed!
Cohon addressed questions regarding public bus 
service on Forbes, travel approval, zero-waste events, 
the conclusion of department 
budget cuts, and future research funding from national 
and governmental organizations.
The ? nal discussion of the 
event was about Carnegie 
Mellons satellite campuses, 
which are all reported to be 
doing well, although Australia may face some ? nancial dif? culties in the years 
to come. As Adam Rauf, the 
chair of Staff Council, put it, 
the forum was a chance for 
Dr. Cohon to speak candidly 
with us. 
Cohon closed the event by 
thanking all the attendees for 
their questions and input, and 
ended by driving home a message: All seems to be going 
well.
COHON, from A1
EVALUATIONS, from A1
Students, faculty debate on value of course evaluationsCohon discusses ending term, ethics committee
File Photo by Tommy Hofman
President Jared Cohon discussed his various travels abroad, the end of his term, and a new committee to 
oversee the universitys ethics policies in his semesterly open forum.
Professor Kunal Ghosh, 
OMs faculty adviser and assistant head for undergraduate affairs in the physics 
department, said that in addition to being proud of the 
permanent mark OM has left 
on the university, he hopes 
that students will take the 
portraits message to heart. 
Retaliation is not the way, 
thats not how to change the 
world, he said.
After the ceremony, however, few students seemed 
to notice the portrait and no 
one was interested in giving a 
comment on the installation.  
While not a controversial ? gure, only a small number of 
students had an opinion of 
the portrait, and even fewer 
had seen it.
Yet, for those involved 
with the Indian community 
on campus, the portrait has 
become a source of pride. Its 
a really great gesture to have 
Gandhi-jhis portrait in the 
University Center, said Anisha Vyas, a junior mechanical 
engineering major and president of MayurSASA, especially where everybody walks 
by and remind everybody of 
what he did in some small 
way.
OM unveils new plaque
GANDHI, from A1
0% 
10% 
20% 
30% 
40% 
50% 
60% 
70% 
Heinz Tepper SCS MCS H&SS CFA CIT 
52% 49% 
58% 60% 
52% 
41% 
63% 
FCE submission rate
Michael Kahn/Editor-in-Chief and Stacey Chin/Layout Manager
Students across Carnegie Mellons various colleges are highly 
encouraged to ? ll out the Faculty Course Evaluations every semester. 
This graphic displays the submission rates for the spring 2011 
semester.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  November 21, 2011

---------------------------------------------------

December 5, 2011  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Names proposed for newest elements
The International Union of 
Pure and Applied Chemistry 
(IUPAC) has proposed two 
names for heavy elements 114 
and 116, the most recent two 
additions to the periodic table 
of elements. The two proposed 
names are ? erovium (with 
atomic symbol Fl) and livermorium (with atomic symbol Lv) for elements 114 and 
116, respectively. The names 
must go through a ? ve-month 
public approval period before 
becoming of? cial. In the past 
250 years, new elements have 
been added to the periodic 
table about once every two 
and a half years, according 
to Carnegie Mellon professor 
of chemistry Paul Karol, who 
chairs the IUPAC committee 
that recognizes new elements.
Source: The New York Times
Texting is so easy, a lion can do it
The research company 
Ground Lab has developed 
new collars for tracking the locations of lions in Kenya. The 
collars can send the GPS locations of lions to a central server which processes these locations and texts local herders 
whenever a lion gets too close 
to their livestock. The collars 
incorporate a GPS receiver and 
a cellular modem capable of 
making calls, sending an SMS 
message, or even accessing a 
mobile data network. The process of tracking animals normally utilizes satellite linkage 
technology, but the company 
claims the cell phone route is 
less expensive. They have only 
been used on 10 lions so far, 
though plans to expand the 
program are in place.
Source: Technology Review, 
CNN
Worlds heaviest insect found
Researcher and adventurer 
Mark Moffet claimed last week 
to have discovered the heaviest known specimen of the 
giant weta, the largest insectsin the world, after a two-day 
search in the forests of Little 
Barrier Island, New Zealand. 
At 71 grams, the insect is 
heavier than three adult mice. 
Known as the wetapunga to 
the local Maori natives, the giant weta has been driven nearly to the brink of extinction by 
recently introduced rats and 
other mammals that feed on 
the insects, and can now only 
be spotted in the little islands of the country, like Little 
Barrier Island.
Source: Popular Science
Violent video games affect brain 
Researchers from Indiana 
University have linked extended exposure to violent video 
games to changes in some 
brain regions associated with 
emotional control. The study 
observed less activation in the 
frontal regions of the brain in 
MRI scans of young men who 
played violent video games 
over the course of one week 
than in other participants who 
did not. The affected brain 
regions are important for 
controlling emotion and aggressive behavior, said Yang 
Wang of the IU department 
of radiology. Similar studies 
of this nature have been conducted before, but this is the 
? rst time scientists have found 
a direct correlation between 
playing violent video games 
and emotional controlling 
brain function.
Source: Science Daily
Mayans never said 2012 was the end
Experts on Mayan civilization are increasing their 
efforts to dispel the popular 
belief that the Mayans predicted that the end of the world 
would occur next year. A panel 
met at the archaeological site 
of Palenque in southern Mexico last week to emphasize 
that the so-called end day of 
Dec. 21, 2012 on the Mayan 
calendar is actually just the 
start of another long 5,125 
year counting period (similar 
to the transition between Dec. 
31 and Jan. 1 for our 365-day 
counting period). We have to 
be clear about this. There is no 
prophecy for 2012, said Erik 
Velasquez, a Mayan etchings 
expert at the National Autonomous University of Mexico. 
Its a marketing fallacy.
Source: Reuters, AP
Mars-bound rover to explore life
Curiosity, a car-sized rover 
developed by NASA, was propelled toward Mars by an unmanned rocket with a goal 
of analyzing the red planet. 
Launched just over a week ago, 
Curiosity is expected to touch 
down in August 2012, and its 
main mission will be to discover whether Mars currently 
has life or was ever capable 
of supporting it. The probe is 
equipped with 17 cameras and 
10 different instruments that 
can analyze the Martian soil 
and identify elements in samples dug up by its drill-tipped 
arm. The rover, powered by a 
small nuclear generator, cost 
$2.5 billion to make.
Source: Reuters
Compiled By
BENJAMIN MADUEME
SCITECH BRIEFS
Robot helps reveal science behind snack choices
KECHUN MAO
Staffwriter
Snacking in the workplace 
is a common ritual, and many 
employees may be concerned 
with making the right choice 
when it comes to their waistlines and overall health. A 
group of Carnegie Mellon researchers are trying to determine the best way to encourage people to make healthier 
snack choices.
Researchers in the HumanComputer Interaction Institute 
recently developed a system 
that helps people make selfbene? cial snacking decisions 
in the workplace based on theories of behavioral economics, 
which differs from traditional 
economics by assuming that 
people do not make the most 
rational decisions all the time. 
The research was recently 
published in Proceedings of the 
2011 Annual Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.
Obesity is a growing problem worldwide, said Jodi Forlizzi, one of the studys authors 
and a professor in the departments of design, human-computer interaction, and computer science. In our university 
labs and of? ce buildings, people work long hours, often 
substituting snacks for meals. 
Having the option to choose 
a healthy snack is a small step 
towards ameliorating these 
problems.
In a study involving 61 
participants, the researchers 
? rst examined participants 
tendency to favor a default 
option in which a snack 
choice was made for them, and 
they could receive an alternative option only if they speci? cally asked. These results 
were compared to participants 
tendencies to rationally weigh 
pros and cons of a snack choice 
if they were asked to plan 
ahead.
For two consecutive days, 
experimenters delivered apples or cookies to participants 
of? ces in the afternoon. On the 
? rst day, everyone was asked 
to choose between apples and 
cookies. One group, labeled 
the default group, was told 
they would have apples the 
next day unless they speci? ed 
they wanted cookies, and a 
planning group was asked to 
choose a snack they would like 
for the next day.
About half of the participants in the default and planning groups chose an apple on 
the ? rst day, but this percentage increased on the second 
day as nearly two-thirds chose 
apples. More participants 
made the switch in the planning group than the default 
Researchers assess risks posed by nanoparticles
MICHAEL SETZER
Staffwriter
Tiny particles, some 
100,000 times smaller than 
the thickness of a sheet of 
paper, are playing an increasingly important role in our 
lives. Nanoparticles, as theyre 
called, can be found in eyeglasses, tires, and even sunscreen. Recently, Carnegie 
Mellon researchers have been 
discussing nanoparticles prevalence in the natural world 
and their potential to greatly 
alter the way we live.
As part of a larger consortium of faculty members 
from universities known as 
the Center for Environmental 
Implications of NanoTechnology (CEINT), professor Greg 
Lowry in the department of 
civil and environmental engineering recently teamed 
up with professor Elizabeth 
Casman in the department of 
engineering and public policy 
to discuss the prevalence of 
nanoparticles in nature and 
their implications in the environment. Their recent study, 
published last month, focuses 
on the prevalence, dynamic 
qualities, and environmental 
effects of nanoparticles.
Nanoparticles are microscopic molecules that are the 
building blocks for many engineered products and are 
typically 100 nanometers in 
size, although some are even 
as small as one nanometer. 
Nanoparticles have been engineered by scientists for years, 
but their presence and effects 
in nature had remained a mystery.
Cue James Hutchison. 
Hutchison, of the University 
of Oregon, experimented with 
the interaction between silver 
nanoparticles under a variety 
of conditions. He found that 
silver nanoparticles reacted 
differently under various environmental conditions, and arrived at the idea that nanoparticles are abundant in nature. 
Casman explained, When 
these silver nanoparticles were 
placed in water, there was a 
production of more nanoparticles. The results indicated 
the idea that nanoparticles 
are ubiquitous in the natural 
world.
This information stirred 
some curiosity within CEINT. 
As Casman noted, This revelation inspired us to discuss, 
What do we know about how 
nanoparticles can be formed 
in nature?  The researchers 
mapped out what they already 
knew, including the idea that 
many nanoparticles that are 
found in nature are nearly 
identical to those engineered, 
and that nanoparticles played 
signi? cant roles in natural processes.
The dynamic nature of 
nanoparticles was also an 
important topic of discussion. When introduced to the 
environment, their incredibly high surface area relative 
to their volume makes them 
prime candidates for dynamic 
changes in nature. We realized that nanoparticles out of 
the jar, when they interact ... 
they dont stay that way, Casman said.
The new in? ux of informaCourtesy of Jodi Forlizzi
Jodi Forlizzi, a professor in the departments of design, human-computer interaction, and computer science, poses with Snackbot, a snack 
delivering robot aimed at understanding how people choose between different snacks.
Basic physics distilled
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
Energy, power, climate 
change, atomic explosions 
 what scienti? c concepts 
should any future president 
of the United States be familiar with? One course at 
Carnegie Mellon aims to 
address exactly that.
Markus Deserno, a professor in the department 
of physics, teamed up with 
department head Gregg 
Franklin to teach a course 
titled Physics for Future 
Presidents, in which students learn science fundamentals pertaining to 
global scienti? c issues that 
hold social and political importance. For example, to 
learn about nuclear energy, 
students studied the basics 
of atoms, chain reactions, 
and energy. An intelligent 
conversation about global 
warming calls for a few basics on radiation and light.
Theres a lot of stuff out 
there which you cant really have a sound opinion 
on if you completely lack 
the science, Deserno said. 
So what you instead do is 
just listen to the sound bites 
of people telling you stuff. 
And its not really that hard 
to have an opinion on this 
stuff once you know a couple of basics.
The class, which was 
offered for the ? rst time 
in the fall 2009 semester, 
is open to all students and 
majors. There are no prerequisites, and the professors like it this way. I think 
that we just want to enable 
our students to become 
more educated citizens  it 
doesnt necessarily have to 
be for the next future president, but any voting citizen 
should know a couple of 
these things, Deserno said.
The course had its beginnings just over 10 years ago 
at University of California, 
Berkeley. A physics professor named Richard Muller 
was asked to teach a qualitative physics course that 
covered a very wide range 
of topics as effectively as 
possible. His vision was to 
create a course that taught 
scienti? c fundamentals 
that addressed some of the 
most important global issues while avoiding some 
technical aspects such as 
calculus that might confuse 
students. Thus, Physics for 
Future Presidents was born.
Can real physics be 
taught without math? Yes! 
Math is a tool for computaAdelaide Cole/Art EditorSee PHYSICS, A6
See NANO, A6
See SNACKS, A6

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  December 5, 2011
Researchers study snack choices
tion, but it is not the essence of 
physics, Muller explained in a 
2010 newsletter for the Forum 
on Physics and Society. So 
many people in our government have a poor grasp of science, and yet if they misjudge 
the science, they can make a 
wrong decision. After a few 
years of teaching the course, 
Muller published the textbook 
Physics for Future Presidents: 
The Science Behind the Headlines. Similar courses have 
spread to other universities, 
including Carnegie Mellon.
Franklin, who teaches the 
course with Deserno, believes 
the students are gaining a lot 
from the course. In one instance, the students viewed 
a three-minute video clip of 
a politician speaking to Congress about carbon dioxide 
levels in the atmosphere. 
When [Deserno] was showing that three-minute clip, 
one of the students shouted 
out, Where is she getting her 
numbers? Thats a successful 
class! Franklin said.
The course has received 
positive reviews from students as well. The professors have done an excellent 
job of ? nding realistic ways to 
clearly present the basic physical phenomena we all should 
understand, Tyler Rice, a 
sophomore English major, 
said in an email. This is important for students who are 
in ? elds which dont require 
the in-depth study and rigorous mathematics of your typical physics class at CMU, but 
who still want to learn about 
the big picture.
In the end, making judgments on the credibility of 
scienti? c decisions and statements is up to the students, 
and Deserno and Franklin 
hope the students have gained 
some tools to help them make 
good assessments based on 
scienti? c fundamentals.
In recitation, [the students] were asking, How do 
we ? nd out the truth on some 
issue?  Franklin said. Thats 
the best but hardest question. 
But the fact that theyre asking 
that is good.
Josh Smith/Staff
tion also spurred the researchers to consider the toxicity and 
environmental effects that 
come with nanoparticles, speci? cally with nanophases. 
Nanophases are as small 
or smaller than nanoparticles 
and display completely different properties than their larger counterparts. For example, 
some nanophases of metals 
can be more than ? ve times 
harder than their respective 
metal nanoparticles. 
Casman and Lowry stress 
that nanophases must be accounted for when discussing the impact of humans 
producing nanomaterials, as 
ignoring them could lead to 
an underestimation of environmental risk, among other 
things. In an email, Lowry 
stated, The potential effects 
of these materials on the environment and human health 
are unknown and must be determined prior to their widespread use in commerce.
Despite all of this newfound information, there is 
still plenty that is not known 
about nanoparticles. There is 
a lot of interesting chemistry 
that has yet to be worked out, 
Casman noted.
More information on 
nanoparticles will help scientists understand how to assess 
toxicity, environmental impact, and environmental risks 
that occur when humans produce nanoparticles. Furthermore, nanotechnology may 
play an integral role in the 
future. As Lowry said, Nanotechnology will impact areas 
such as nanomedicine, [and] 
it can help make the transportation industry more fuel ef? -
cient. Lowry also mentioned  
that nanotechnology can help 
water treatment. The possibilities seem endless. 
Indeed, nanotechnology 
may someday affect nearly everything we interact with. For 
now, however, scientists must 
continue to try to understand 
more about these enigmatic 
materials.
group, implying that the planning strategy may have had a 
larger effect. Researchers also 
asked the participants to rate 
their snacks and found that 
both groups indicated less enjoyment than a control group 
that was presented with the 
same snack choices as the ? rst 
day. Possibly, the researchers 
thought, people felt an implicit pressure to have a healthy 
snack or simply didnt like 
planning ahead.
In a second experiment, the 
researchers observed the effects of using a robot to deliver 
snacks to the participants. In 
one delivery method, apples 
and cookies were evenly laid 
out on a tray, making both 
choices equally accessible to 
participants. In another method, apples were delivered on 
a tray while the cookies were 
placed in a bag underneath 
the tray, making the cookies 
slightly less convenient to participants. 
The researchers found that 
making the apples slightly 
more accessible was effective in in? uencing people to 
make the healthier choice. 
Furthermore, peoples enjoyment level was generally unaffected by this robot delivery 
method versus being asked if 
they wanted a different snack 
than the default option. The 
researchers reasoned that this 
might be due to the lack of 
social pressure in the robot experiment.
A last experiment revealed 
that information such as calorie counts presented to participants had little effect on their 
snack choices, and in many 
cases, the information caused 
participants with a healthy 
diet to choose unhealthy 
snacks. The researchers 
proposed the possibility that 
since a candy bar has fewer 
calories than participants may 
have thought, they allowed 
themselves to indulge in junk 
food.
The research is just one 
illustration of how simple 
changes in user interfaces 
can have signi? cant impact 
on peoples choices. It implies 
that there is great potential for 
behavioral economics to bene? t human health.
KECHUN MAO
Staffwriter
Many seemingly mundane 
objects can emit visible light 
if exposed to the right conditions. Tonic water, $20 bills, 
jelly? sh, teeth whiteners, 
laundry detergents  all  of 
these items can manifest the 
power of ? uorescence. 
All light consists of photons, which are constantly 
moving and thus have varying amounts of energy. The 
undergraduate introductory 
physics textbook used by 
Carnegie Mellon, Matter & 
Interactions, states that only 
photons within a certain range 
of energy can be seen by the 
human eye and are therefore 
called visible light. Photons 
with energy levels outside of 
this range, such as infrared or 
ultraviolet light, are invisible 
to the human eye.
Fluorescence is generated when a material absorbs 
high-energy photons and then 
emits photons of lower energy. The Optical Microscopy 
Division of the National High 
Magnetic Field Laboratory at 
Florida State University explains that when a ? uorescent 
material absorbs a photon, the 
excess energy is lost as heat 
that is subsequently absorbed 
by neighboring molecules in 
the material. As a result, photons are re-emitted at lower 
energies that are now within 
the range visible to the human eye, making the material 
appear to glow. Therefore, in 
order for ? uorescent materials to ? uoresce, they normally 
need to be exposed to higher 
energy light, such as ultraviolet light.
The phenomenon may be 
easier to understand by looking at a more microscopic 
picture of what happens to 
an atom in a ? uorescent molecule during light exposure. In 
an atom, electrons surround a 
nucleus at various distances. 
When ultraviolet light shines 
on a ? uorescent material, 
an electron gets pushed to a 
higher energy state as it gains 
energy from the photons. 
However, electrons have low 
stability at high energy states, 
so they almost immediately go 
back to their original position 
and re-emit the energy in the 
form of visible light.
Different types of materials lose different amounts of 
energy in this process, resulting in different materials ? uorescing many different colors. 
For example, under ultraviolet light $20 bills glow bright 
green while laundry detergents glow blue. 
One of the most familiar 
applications of ? uorescence 
is the ? uorescent light bulb. 
Inside a common ? uorescent 
light bulb there is a partial 
vacuum and a small amount 
of mercury that helps provide 
the ultraviolet light to initiate 
? uorescence. The tube is coated with a ? uorescent material 
that absorbs ultraviolet and 
re-emits visible light. Almost 
all of the energy in ? uorescent 
lighting goes toward producing light, while the energy in 
an incandescent bulb goes 
toward light and heat, so the 
latter bulb is not as ef? cient at 
producing light. A ? uorescent 
bulb can produce between 
three and seven times more 
light than an incandescent 
light bulb.
In many countries, legal 
banknotes have ? uorescent 
symbols on them that only 
show under ultraviolet light. 
The same security features 
can be applied to identi? cation cards. According to the 
National Park Service, ultraviolet light can be used 
to con? rm the validity of oil 
paintings since natural resin 
varnish layers are ? uorescent. 
People have applied ? uorescence to a wide range of ? elds 
and will continue tapping its 
great potential to discover 
more ways to utilize it in the 
future.
HOW THINGS WORKThe nature of ? uorescence
Christina Lee/Staff
Particles pose risks in nature
NANO, from A5
Course teaches future presidents
SNACKS, from A5
PHYSICS, from A5
Photo illustration by Celia Ludwinski/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

Community Programs Assistant
Part time position available (20 hrs. per week at $9.75 per hour) for individual to work with teen peer education program focused on sexuality 
education and pregnancy prevention. Individual will facilitate and schedule peer education and other program presentations in local schools and 
community organizations. Requires high school diploma or equivalent. 
Must be able to present reproductive education programs to large groups, 
and work with and be accepted by pre-teens,teens and adults from diverse 
backgrounds. Valid drivers license and transportation required. 
Please send resume to: Adagio Health, Resume Box  714-T,  Attn: 
Gina, Town Place., Forbes & Stanwix, Suite 1000, Pittsburgh, PA 
15222. Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF
Stephanie Blotner, Stephanie Guerdan, Jackson 
Lane, Alan Vangpat, Courtney Wittekind
COPY
Juan Acosta, Rachel Bullen, Connie Chan, Jay 
Chopra, Hannah Dellabella, Sage Po, Michael 
Setzer, Jessica Sochol, Stephanie Stern
LAYOUT
Sun Kyung Park, Hafsal Ponthal
ADVERTISING
Seo Young Hwang
BUSINESS
Kenneth Wong
PATRICK GAGE KELLEY *
Publisher
MICHAEL KAHN *
Editor-in-Chief
CHRISTA HESTER 
Forum Editor 
EMILY DOBLER 
News Editor
GREG HANNEMAN * 
Contributing Editor
KATIE CHIRONIS
Copy Manager
CELIA LUDWINSKI *
Operations Manager 
DANIEL TKACIK
SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
ANNA WALSH *
Pillbox Editor 
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
TOMMY HOFMAN
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
MARICEL PAZ
Online Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
SARAH ZAKRAJSEK
Personnel Manager
STACEY CHIN
Layout Manager
JENNY CHANG
Advertising Manager
JONATHAN CHUNG
Business Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Asst. News Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Asst. Advertising Manager
GRACE CHUNG
Asst. Advertising Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ALLISON COSBY
Asst. Pillbox Editor
Editorial Staff
 2011 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  December 5, 2011
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
WILL WEINER
We had a very busy and productive semester in Student Senate. 
Weve completed several initiatives 
thus far and have many more projects underway. Senate has thus far 
allocated approximately $42,000 to 
21 groups. Our funding has helped 
our Quidditch team go to the World 
Cup and has helped EMS update 
their equipment to better serve campus. Weve also funded many campus events, including Bhangra in the 
Burgh, 12/2/11, the Asian Student 
Leadership Conference, and the AB 
Carnival Concert.
Senate Week, held in the ? rst 
week of October, raised awareness 
of Senate, gave free food to the 
campus, and collected a signi? cant 
amount of feedback, which we have 
been addressing this semester. We 
worked with Housing and Dining to 
improve lighting in upperclassmen 
apartments and placed magazines 
in the UCs Kirr Commons for students to read. We helped implement 
a pilot for a new academic adviser 
scheduling system, which has been 
receiving positive feedback. We have 
also accomplished many small-scale 
changes, such as getting the water 
fountain in Skibo Gym repaired.
There are many ongoing projects. 
We are trying to expand the selection of textbooks on reserve in the 
library. We have a task force looking 
at biking issues on campus and are 
close to making it so ? rst-years in all 
colleges can choose their Interpretation and Argument topic. Were 
working to improve communication between the career center and 
advisers to help them work more effectively with one another and make 
sure our students are meeting employers demands.
To better communicate with campus we are launching the website 
cmusenate.org. This site will be catered to students and provide quick 
updates about our meetings and initiatives in a blog format as well as let 
students get to know their Senators 
better. The site will be launched at 
the start of next semester. During 
the winter, we are going to hand out 
hot chocolate and collect feedback 
on Fridays. Beginning next semester we will also be rolling out a new 
logo and distributing ? yers with updates and feedback forms.
We have been working hard this 
semester and are in a good place 
to complete the initiatives that we 
have outlined here, along with more 
I didnt have space to mention. As 
your representatives, we want to 
serve you as best as we possibly 
can and we appreciate your feedback. If you want more information 
about our initiatives or how to get 
involved, please email me at  
student-senate@andrew.edu.
Will Weiner 
Undergraduate Student Senate Chair
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVESStudent Senate gives updates on initiatives
ALLEN SONG
Junior Staffwriter
On Nov. 9, 2011, Pennsylvania 
State University terminated Joe Paternos 46-year career as head coach 
of its football program for neglecting to report child molestation and 
sexual assault allegations against 
former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky to the police. While the media 
lauded the Board of Trustees decision, I believe it only served to use 
Paterno as a scapegoat.
Although Paterno did not report 
the allegations to the police directly, 
he did report them to the authorities 
of the university, as was required by 
his job and by the law  speci? cally 
to Tim Curley, the athletic director, 
and Gary Schultz, the administrator 
in charge of the University Police. It 
was then Curley, Schultz, and Graham Spanier, the president of Penn 
State, who proceeded to conceal the 
accusations. By reporting to Schultz, Paterno actually ful? lled his legal obligations and thus in no way 
attempted to cover up Sanduskys 
crimes. He just did nothing when 
the Penn State administration concealed them.
Of course, Paternos inaction was 
also morally wrong, but those who 
readily threw him under the bus because of his lack of action hold him 
to an unrealistic moral standard. 
Consider this: Paterno has known 
Sandusky for 31 years and, despite 
that, reported him to authorities 
who should have noti? ed the police, but did not. Although he should 
have pursued the allegations until 
they reached the right people, that 
is an exceedingly dif? cult thing to 
do  especially when the immediate responsibility no longer fell on 
Paternos shoulders.
Moreover, the scandal was the direct result of the Penn State administration putting its image and prestige over what is right. It reinforced 
this fact by ? ring Paterno over the 
phone after he already publicly declared he would retire at the end of 
the year. Attorney Ben Andreozzi 
summed it up nicely by saying, the 
school ... elected to do what it felt 
was in its best interest at the time 
which was what put the school in 
this position in the ? rst place.
What makes matters worse is the 
fact that the media has enabled all 
of this to occur. The media has gotten the entire nation to focus on Joe 
Paterno. Not Sandusky. Not Curley, 
Schultz, or Spanier. Not even the 
victims. The media has relentlessly 
pursued Joe Paterno, a high-pro? le 
? gure who had limited involvement. 
In fact, the media has vili? ed Paterno to such an extent that football 
Hall of Famer Franco Harris was 
? red from his publicity job simply 
for expressing support for Paterno. 
Likewise, the medias obsessive 
focus on Paterno obscured the administrations involvement in the 
scandal, allowing them to publicly 
crucify the coach.
Paterno ultimately became a victim of the same system that caused 
the scandal to occur in the ? rst place 
 a system that values the prestige 
of a football program over doing 
what is right. Last week, a USA Today poll revealed that only 38 percent of Pennsylvanians believed that 
Paterno should not have been ? red 
while 61 percent still view Penn 
State with a favorable opinion. In 
the end, it seems, the only one who 
did not lose in this scandal was Penn 
States administration.
Penn State exploited 
Paterno as scapegoat
The student government executives, Student Senate, Graduate 
Student Assembly, and various associated committees that form student government have had almost 
? ve months  half of their term 
 to work on projects and improve 
the student experience at Carnegie 
Mellon. In this time, these student 
leaders have achieved some of their 
goals, but overall we continue to see 
a disappointing lack of leadership in 
student government.
The Graduate Student Assembly 
(GSA) has been the most functional 
body of student government again 
this semester. With representation 
organized at the department rather 
than the college level, GSA members 
have been able to keep up to date 
with issues their speci? c constituencies care about. They can  and do 
 effectively address issues facing 
the graduate student community. 
GSA has also continued its success at 
organizing popular events, including 
the beer-tasting event held at Phipps 
Conservatory last week.
Student Senate, on the other 
hand, has suffered from a lack of focus. Part of this is due to the fact that  
members are elected at the level of 
entire colleges instead of close-knit 
departments. Senators for the Dietrich College of Humanities & Social 
Sciences, for example, cannot be expected to represent the interests of 
creative writing majors, information 
systems majors, and economics majors simultaneously. The goals that 
Senate has achieved have been lackluster and small in scope. 
For many students, especially 
those in student organizations, Senates main purpose is providing 
special allocations for unplanned 
expenses. To better connect with its 
constituents and represent the diverse undergraduate student body, 
Senate should reconsider its election 
procedures to be more speci? c than 
overall colleges. In doing so, we hope 
that it will generate more interest in 
its non-? nancial activities.
The student government executive branch is another large component of student government. It has  
gone on relatively unnoticed since its 
members were elected last year. The 
executive branch is led by Student 
Body President Jake Flittner and 
Student Body Vice President Sangita 
Sharma; although Flittner and Sharma have been in of? ce all semester, 
we have seen no accomplishments 
and no attempts at communication, 
despite several opportunities.
We have no idea what Flittner 
and Sharma are doing with their 
$10,000 budget, or what happened 
to the promised Friday Frenzies 
that the candidates said would be 
their ? rst action upon taking of? ce. 
The executive branch should be 
providing leadership for the rest of 
student government and the entire 
student body. Halfway through this 
administrations tenure, the signs of  
leadership are conspicuously absent.
The student government executive branch and Senate need to reform their leadership and make this 
new direction more apparent to 
students. The letter from Senate at 
the bottom right corner of this page 
highlights various initiatives, but 
they have not had enough of an effect on the student body as a whole. 
Greater initiatives need to be taken 
before smaller accomplishments are 
praised.
Taking measures to inform the 
campus community of student government initiatives would help create a greater level of communication 
between student government and 
the students they represent. By utilizing campus media, holding of? ce 
hours, or just maintaining a dialogue 
with students, student government 
may truly improve the student experience at Carnegie Mellon.
Student government accomplishes little in half-term
Police forces moved to evict Occupy protesters in Los Angeles and 
Philadelphia over the last week. In 
both cases, these raids took place after midnight  when the possibility 
of public outcry and media coverage 
was minimal  with the police force 
decked out in full riot gear. Protesters, denied their fundamental right 
to peaceful protest, were thrown 
in jail by the hundreds and held for 
the maximum possible time without 
charge  48 hours  before being 
released. Apparently our government only supports democracy when 
it involves another countrys people 
? ghting for their rights. When it 
comes to ? aws in the democratic 
process in our own country, many 
state and government of? cials have 
so far been content to look the other 
way.
To riot police and to those who 
command them, heres a quick tip: 
If youre conducting an operation 
in the dead of night and keeping 
journalists from covering the story, 
youre doing something wrong. 
These forces knew that they were engaging in something dirty, secretive, 
and even a little unconstitutional; 
and yet they still went through with 
the plans handed down to them. Despite the fact that Occupy is a nonviolent movement, these same police 
have been given orders to evict protesters by any means necessary. 
Rubber bullets and tear gas grenades were used to clear demonstrators in Oakland, Calif., resulting in 
substantial injuries to an Iraq War 
veteran; at the University of California at Davis, police doused protesters 
with military-grade pepper spray at 
a close range in such an ardent manner that a couple of students, one of 
whom was coughing up blood, had 
to be taken to a hospital. When our 
nations children, students, elderly 
women, professors, and veterans 
are being brutally clubbed or pepper-sprayed for their involvement 
in non-violent protests, something 
has got to stop. The police response 
to Occupy has never worked, and it 
never will.
This doesnt even account for the 
cost were paying for mayors across 
the country to evict their citizens 
and, in many cases, our peers: According to Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, the cleanup and 
removal of the Occupy movement in 
that city cost approximately $1 million in taxpayer dollars. At a time 
when all of California is suffering 
from an enormous ? nancial crisis, 
Villaraigosa chose instead to spend 
much-needed money on paying police of? cers to break down a peaceful 
camp long after business hours were 
over. 
The ? scal decision making involved here is truly mind-boggling.
As students and Americans, we 
must hold our government accountable for the repeated crimes it has 
committed against men and women 
who are supporting a cause they believe in. To stand by and say nothing 
is to support the removal of those 
rights. Regardless of whether or not 
we support the Occupy movement, 
we have a fundamental obligation 
to protect and defend our own rights 
from being taken away. 
With enough eyes on them, 
those in charge of this widespread 
brutality may ? nally begin to take 
notice.
Police brutality in Occupy movement violates rights
Greg Hanneman/Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
December 5, 2011  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
Compiled by Jessica Sochol
Issues surrounding Occupy Wall Street continue to create controversy. So we asked, 
What is your stance on the Occupy movement?
David Keck
ECE
Junior
I am in favor of the movement. I 
feel that it is bringing money from 
politics to the people, which has 
been a long time coming.
Phil Bailey
ECE
Sophomore
Theyve made their point. Now, 
its not really helping the matter.
Rohan Kalra
Economics
Senior
I love Wall Street. I think the 
movement is stupid.
Dustin Hellstern
CS
Junior
I have no opinion.
Nicolle Nacey
ChemE
Senior
When a movement causes its 
supporters to hide their true 
feelings then I feel the movement 
is failing.
ANNA WALSH
Many of you have probably gone 
to a Panera Bread in Pittsburgh  
and why not? It has plenty of delicious and relatively inexpensive options for food. If you pay attention to 
the girls waiting on you at the registers, though, you might notice some 
trends: ? rst, theyre all girls between 
the ages of 16 and 24. Second, with 
rare exception, theyre all white.
Unfortunately, this isnt some sort 
of odd coincidence. The Covelli franchise, which owns almost 30 Panera 
Bread locations in western Pennsylvania alone, only hires pretty young 
girls to work at the cash registers  
or so says a recent lawsuit by Scott 
Donatelli, a former manager at a 
Panera location in Mt. Lebanon.
First of all, when [Donatelli] 
hired an African-American employee, they said, What is that? and, if 
the owner comes around, make sure 
hes in the back, because hell have a 
? t,  Donatellis lawyer, Sam Cordes, 
told WTAE Pittsburgh. According to 
the lawsuit, the district manager repeatedly chastised Donatelli for letting an African-American man work 
on the registers, saying, Its what 
Sam [Covelli] wants, and what our 
customers want. They would rather 
see pretty young girls.
This isnt the ? rst time the Covelli franchise has been sued for its 
racist practices: Back in 2003, a former manager at the Panera Bread 
on Forbes Avenue sued the Covelli 
franchise, claiming that he had been 
repeatedly told not to assign AfricanAmericans to work on the cash registers, and was eventually ? red for 
refusing to comply.
As a former Panera employee (full 
disclosure: I quit a few weeks ago), I 
can attest to how true these policies 
are. Ive seen an African-American 
coworker  an excellent employee 
who has worked at Panera Bread 
longer than any of the managers currently running the store  sent home 
when Mr. Covelli was coming to visit 
the store. Ive had the assistant manager tell me that she cant hire African-Americans.
This would be bad enough if it was 
just one store with these policies, or 
one manager. But layers and layers of 
management have either said nothing or have actively helped to enforce 
these prejudicial policies. These sorts 
of prejudices should never have been 
tolerated, let alone implemented 
in the ? rst place. Not only that, but 
the district managers comment that 
customers would rather see pretty 
young girls is insulting to Paneras 
patrons. Does the Covelli franchise 
really think so little of its customers 
(or of its products) that it believes 
Panera Bread needs some sort of sex 
appeal in order to get business?
Luckily, we as the Carnegie Mellon community have a very simple 
way of showing that we will not tolerate this racism: Stop eating there. 
If youre in Oakland and are craving 
a sandwich, head over to Eat Unique 
on Craig Street instead  it has 
similar kinds of food for about the 
same price. If youre in Shadyside 
and need some comfort food, go to 
Boston Market. I know the Carnegie 
Mellon administration places plenty 
of catering orders at Panera Bread 
 start ordering your salads from 
somewhere else. The administration 
should also seriously reconsider its 
connections to the company; currently, Panera Bread is a corporate 
partner of Carnegie Mellons Athletic 
Department. Giving this kind of support to a company that continues to 
profess and act on racist and sexist 
ideals is unacceptable. Severing ties 
with the company would effectively 
send a message that we will not tolerate its practices.
We as a campus community have 
a very clear and easy opportunity to 
make a statement against these obvious racist and sexist practices. Please, 
take a stand and take your business 
elsewhere.
Anna Walsh (amwalsh@) is Pillbox 
editor for The Tartan.
Panera Breads racist, sexist practices warrant boycott
Photo Illustration by Jonathan Carreon/Staff
KYLE HENSON
With the recent failure of the 
Congressional supercommittee 
tasked with making progress toward 
solving our de? cit problem, many 
Americans are getting frustrated 
with Congress seeming inability to 
do anything productive. Republicans wont consider tax increases of 
any kind on any group, especially 
when taxes are already legislated to 
rise across the board in a year, and 
Democrats wont consider structural 
reforms to entitlement programs like 
Social Security and Medicare. As 
our nation approaches an important 
crossroads where the two warring 
factions have very different visions 
about a future America, politicians 
are looking more and more toward 
the 2012 election to see which future 
Americans will choose.
I believe that this divisiveness 
could be solved by delegating more 
powers to the states, so that more 
geographically centered majorities 
who are national minorities can have 
the power to legislate for themselves 
without affecting or being affected 
by the will of people with exceptionally different sets of values.
According to realclearpolitics.
com, 73.5 percent of Americans 
think that the country is headed in 
the wrong direction. Congressional 
approval ratings are even lower, with 
81.7 percent of the U.S. disapproving 
of Congress. 
Yet though the country seems 
to agree that something needs to 
change, polling results show that 
we are nearly evenly divided when it 
comes to how that change is to take 
place. Nearly 50 percent of Americans are going to vote Democratic, 
and 50 percent will vote Republican. Though this may change as the 
election draws near and the GOPs 
presidential candidate becomes 
clearer, returning federal powers to 
the states will result in a satisfactory 
compromise for both parties.
Right now, Democrats envision 
a country that offers lots of bene? ts 
to its citizens but totes high, redistributive taxes. On the other hand, 
Republicans want low, ? atter taxes, 
but are willing to live without the 
governmental bene? ts. Right now, 
were trying to get the best of both 
worlds: lower taxes with high bene? ts. This leaves us with lots of de? cit 
spending, which is an unsustainable 
course of action. Yet these parties are 
fairly locally concentrated, with the 
North and West being largely Democratic and the South and Midwest 
being largely Republican. 
Instead of having the federal government force some unsatisfactory 
compromise on the entire electorate, 
by removing some of its power, we 
can let local majorities who are national minorities make decisions for 
themselves.
This also allows states to compete in the sense that they can act 
as a marketplace for governing ideas 
without detriment to the country 
as a whole. More and more states 
can adopt successful measures until 
they become de facto federal laws. 
Though not all federal powers would  
be delegated to the states, the electorate would be more satis? ed with 
our government if states had signi? -
cantly more control over policy. 
Others suggest that this system 
would break down our government 
because the states and the people 
within them already depend on the 
federal government so much. I believe that if the shift were to take 
place gradually and incrementally, 
taxes could be phased out of the 
federal level and into the state level 
while services would do the same. As 
long as the process is gradual, people 
will become accustomed to the new 
system without much detriment.
Another counterargument is that 
this system would increase factions 
within the U.S., creating a more 
divisive and unproductive federal 
government. I disagree with this 
point because federal of? cials are already elected state-by-state. Taking 
power from the federal government 
wouldnt change existing partisanship, but it would give a more diverse 
body of of? cials less divisive issues to 
worry about, and it would increase  
the governments productivity.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
More state power solves divisive issues
JACKSON LANE
I was disappointed when NBC 
announced that Community will be 
going on an extended hiatus during 
the midseason. However, as much as 
I love Community, I can understand 
why NBC is having doubts about the 
show and why Community has thus 
far had a pretty low viewership.
Community is one of those shows 
that I enjoy more the second time I 
watch it. Episodes are too crazy for 
me to swallow in one viewing. Its 
only when I re-watch the episode 
that I can appreciate all the humor 
and subtle character moments.
Community tends to put its funniest and most poignant scenes right 
in the middle of its most absurd scenarios, but these moments truly are 
gems when you reach them. Scenes 
like the anime sequence in last 
weeks Foosball and Nocturnal Vigilantism are not only hilarious but 
also surprisingly organic, and they 
show how the craziness furthers the 
story and character development.
I love the craziness for the sake of 
craziness, but Im pretty sure thats 
just me being weird. Most viewers just want humor and character 
moments from a sitcom, and while 
some craziness can add a little spice, 
it shouldnt make the show too dif? cult to swallow in a single serving.
For the typical once-a-week sitcom viewer, episodes like Masonic 
Myths and Ancient Peoples might 
seem weird on the ? rst viewing   
then next week, the show will have 
moved on to another crazy episode. 
Theres no chance for a second viewing, and the viewer might wonder 
whether watching Community is his 
most ef? cient use of this time slot.
Relative to Community, sitcoms 
like Glee or Big Bang Theory are predictable and clichd, but that predictability has its charm. I can watch 
an episode of Glee and get into the 
music, laugh at the clever writing, 
and appreciate the emotional moments all in one sitting, because Im 
not always worried that something 
crazy is going to happen.
The third season of Community 
is trying to tone down the absurdity 
while still keeping the humor and 
emotion. This is a step in the right direction, but the show still has a long 
way to go. For starters, the surreal 
second season has given Community a reputation for craziness that 
will be pretty hard to shake off. But 
even last weeks Foosball and Nocturnal Vigilantism, which held off 
on the wacky anime sequence until 
the very end, still required a second 
viewing for me to see how the entire 
episode had been building up to this 
sequence and then how the anime 
brought the episode to a satisfying 
and touching resolution.
Hopefully the shows hiatus will 
serve as a short time out to learn 
how not to use parodies of Charlie 
Kauffman in Masonic Myths and 
Ancient Peoples to explore a characters psyche. And hopefully, the 
hiatus will be just be that: a short 
time out.
Jackson Lane (jlane@) is a senior 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Community should try to tone down content
Instead of having the federal government 
force some unsatisfactory compromise 
on the entire electorate ... we can let local 
majorities who are national minorities 
make decisions for themselves.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  November 21, 2011A1A0 0thhetetaratan.org/gsports The Tartan November 21,20111

---------------------------------------------------

December 5, 2011  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
Tartans excel in Total Performance Invite
JENNIFER ELKIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
swimming and diving team 
traveled to Kenyon, Ohio this 
past Thursday through Saturday to compete in the Total Performance Invitational. 
The Tartans were greeted by 
teams from the University of 
Pennsylvania, Kenyon College, Davidson College, Grove 
City College, Bowling Green 
State University, and the University of Findlay. Both Bowling Green and Findlay only 
presented womens teams for 
the competition.
After the ? rst day of swimming, the men held their 
ground in fourth place with 
a score of 54. They picked 
up the intensity during the 
second day of competition, 
earning a total of 303 points 
and jumping up to third place. 
With strong closing efforts, 
they added 208 more points 
for a total of 511 points, putting them in fourth place at 
the end of day three. The solid 
? nish topped Grove City College, which placed ? fth with 
319 points.
The mens team is showing 
signs of improvement, as the 
swimmers continue breaking individual career records. 
Among them are ? rst-year 
Andrew Yee, who ? nished the 
1,650-yard freestyle in ? fth 
place with a career-best time 
of 16:10.96.
Junior Dan Glaser-Garbrick ? nished third in the 400-
yard individual medley with a 
time of 4:00.74 and third in 
the 200-yard butter? y with 
a time of 1:51.06. In 2011, 
Glaser-Garbrick was an AllAmerican and UAA Champion 
in the 200-yard butter? y and 
on the All-UAA Second Team 
for the 400-yard individual 
medley.
In the 200-yard breaststroke, sophomore Austin 
Bohn ? nished in third place in 
2:05.68, cutting about 10 seconds off his personal record.
First-year Anton Razanav, 
senior Matt Stanton, Bohn, 
and Glaser-Garbrick swam 
the 400-yard medley relay in 
a record time of 3:27.55, ? nishing ? fth. This beat the time 
of 3:35.83 set during a UAA 
meet on Oct. 29.
The women picked up 44 
points after the ? rst day of 
the invitational, putting them 
in fourth place to start off. 
After the second day of competition, the women scored 
a total of 197 points, putting 
them in ? fth place. Their additional 135 points on day 
three proved not enough to 
overcome Grove City College, which ? nished with 369 
points. The women ? nished 
with a total of 332 points, in 
sixth place overall.
Some swimmers reached 
career highs in relays. Firstyear Kelley Sheehan, sophomore Soleil Phan, sophomore 
Megan Garvey, and senior Victoria Adams swam into 10th 
place with a time of 7:45.51. 
Adams, Garvey, and Phan 
achieved  an All-America honorable mention for this relay 
in 2011, as well as All-UAA 
Second Team honors.
The Tartans will follow up 
this performance on Jan. 21 
in New Wilmington, Pa. They 
will be competing against 
Westminister College and 
SUNY Geneseo at 1 p.m.
player in jail. As if that wasnt 
enough for him, he proceeded to ? y like a Jet and then 
stumbled to the ground in order to enact a plane crash. 
Johnson was then penalized 
15 yards, leading to an easy 
Jets touchdown the next 
drive, bene? tting from great 
? eld position. To make matters worse, Johnson eventually dropped two wide-open 
touchdown passes when the 
Bills needed a touchdown to 
win the game. 
Like Suh, Johnsons reaction after the game told us 
all we need to know. When 
asked about the dance, Johnson blew it off, saying he was 
disappointed that it cost the 
Bills the game but did not 
think the dance was in bad 
taste, and, at the time, he did 
not apologize to Burress.
Although this is not the 
norm in the NFL, its disappointing to see professional 
football players endangering 
other players (Suh) or mocking other players misfortunes (Johnson). The worst 
part is that it is usually the 
same players getting ? ned or 
suspended. I know that the 
league will never be perfect, 
but its guys like Suh who give 
the league an unwarranted 
bad boy image. Given that 
Suh is young and has already 
had many transgressions, 
the NFL should look into suspending him for much longer 
depending on what he does 
next. Im not one for suspensions, but some just wont 
learn until you really punish 
them, and justi? ably so, Suh 
has been suspended for the 
next two games.
NFL, from A12
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Suh suspended for 
heinous behavior
File Photo by Celia Ludwinski 
Sophomore Austin Bohn placed third in the 200-yard breaststroke.
Courtesy of Jeffery Beall on Flickr 
Ndamukong Suh is suspended for the Detroit Lions next two games.

---------------------------------------------------

A12  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  December 5, 2011
Sports wrap-up
SPORTS COMMENTARY
NBA lockout over
Womens Swimming and Diving
The Tartans ? nished sixth in the Total Performance 
Invitational
Mens Swimming and Diving
The Tartans ? nished fourth in the Total Performance 
Invitational
Mens Basketball
vs. Otterbein University                                     W  7770
vs. Allegheny College                                W  6764
vs. Lebanon Valley College                            L  5878
vs. Catholic University                              L  5062
Womens Basketball
vs. Baldwin-Wallace College                              L 4750
vs. Penn State Altoona                                   W 9446
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
With an NBA nuclear 
winter looming over us and 
a real threat of the season being cancelled, a miracle saved 
everything. After almost ? ve 
months of negotiations, the 
NBA owners and the National 
Basketball Players Association (NBPA) ? nally reached 
an agreement.
On Friday, Nov. 25, the 
communal NBA fan base let 
out a monstrous sigh of relief 
when reports were released 
that said the two sides had 
reached a handshake agreement. Barring a surprise in 
the of? cial voting on the deal, 
the lockout is ? nally over. So 
while the NBA season was 
not of? cially salvaged, everybody read between the lines. 
We have an NBA season.
The 66-game season starts 
on Christmas Day, with ? ve 
marquee matchups that include an NBA Finals rematch 
between the Miami Heat and 
Dallas Mavericks and a battle 
between the Los Angeles Lakers and Chicago Bulls.
So I think I speak for everyone when I say, Hallelujah. In less than a month, 
NBA games will resume and 
we can put this chaos behind 
us.
Fans should thank Major 
League Baseball for the resolution of this lockout. With 
the MLB agreeing on a new 
collective bargaining agreement (CBA) a year in advance 
of its expiration date, NBA 
Commissioner David Stern 
and the league would look 
particularly bad if the NBA 
were unable to salvage the 
season. The NFL resolving its 
lockout before the scheduled 
start of the season was probably in? uential on this deal 
being made as well.
The issues of revenue 
sharing, luxury tax, free 
agency, and different contract exceptions all caused 
rifts between the owners and 
NBPA. But none was more 
controversial than basketball 
related income (BRI). After 
months of deliberations, an 
agreement was ? nally made 
such that the players receive 
51.15 percent of BRI for the 
? rst year, and 4951 percent 
in the later seasons. As anyone would have predicted, 
the owners had the upper 
hand and subsequently won 
this battle with the players.
But Im done with lockout 
and CBA discussion  lets 
talk playing ball. I long for 
the ? rst NBA breaking news 
story that isnt about the 
lockout. Lets delve into free 
agency and potential blockbuster trades.
The biggest free agents 
in the 2011 class are Tyson 
Chandler, Jamal Crawford, 
Nene Hilario, David West, 
Marc Gasol, DeAndre Jordan, 
Greg Oden, and Tayshaun 
Prince. The only news in the 
early part of the 201112 offseason is regarding the starting center of the 2011 NBA 
champion Mavericks, Chandler. It was reported that he 
expected not to return to the 
championship squad next 
season.
It has been rumored that 
the Heat are interested in 
the  perennially injured No. 
1 pick, Oden. While a huge 
risk, Oden could be the piece 
to get Miami an NBA Title, 
having lacked size in their Finals run last season.
There is more talk, at this 
time, regarding potential 
blockbuster trades. There are 
two players who could make 
or break a teams championship hopes for this upcoming 
season: Orlando Magic center Dwight Howard and New 
Orleans Hornets point guard 
Chris Paul, who have both 
often been discussed in trade 
talks.
Howard, the reigning twotime defensive player of the 
year, wants out of Orlando 
because he does not feel the 
organization is heading in a 
championship direction. The 
common opinion among experts is that Howard wants to 
go to Tinseltown to play with 
the Lakers. After seeing ? rsthand how great of an organization the Lakers were when 
they lost in the 2009 NBA 
Finals in ? ve games to Kobes 
squad, it is tough to ? nd ? aws 
in his desires.
Paul has made it explicitly 
clear that he wants to be traded to the New York Knicks to 
team up with Amare Stoudemire and Carmelo Anthony. This would form another 
Big Three, similar to that of 
the Miami Heat, making New 
York a championship contender for the ? rst time since 
the Patrick Ewing era.
Both Howard and Paul 
can do nothing but speculate 
and persuade, as their respective organizations wont 
give them up for nothing, and 
it will take big players to get 
them traded.
In the midst of the storm 
of transaction rumors, I feel 
refreshed. The heavy burden 
of the lockout and the threat 
of losing the season have 
sailed, and the NBA can get 
back to its forte: playing ball.
CMU basketball brings new talent, focus
KATHRYN KNOX
Junior Staffwriter
Last week, the Carnegie 
Mellon womens basketball 
team dropped to 24 on the 
year after losing a close game 
to Baldwin-Wallace College 
on Wednesday. This non-conference matchup was the ? rst 
of a four-game homestand 
leading up to the semester 
break.
In the contest, Carnegie 
Mellon jumped out to an 
early lead against the Yellow 
Jackets and maintained that 
advantage through the ? rst 
half, taking a 2523 lead into 
the break. The score remained 
close through the second half, 
as both teams struggled to 
? nd a rhythm on the offensive 
end, and turnovers were contagious on both ends of the 
court. The Tartans defense allowed them to hold the Yellow 
Jackets to an impressive 50 
points, but that was all Baldwin-Wallace needed to pick 
up the road win by a threepoint margin.
The Tartans were led by junior forward Emily Peel, who 
scored a game-high 20 points. 
After earning an All-UAA honorable mention last year, Peel 
has picked up right where she 
left off in the 201011 season. 
She currently leads the team 
in scoring and rebounding 
with 18.7 points and 9.7 rebounds per game.
Under the leadership of 
Peel and her fellow upperclassmen, the team is looking 
to build up some momentum 
heading into conference action. Last year the Tartans 
struggled in conference play, 
but Peel said that this team 
is not the same as it was last 
year and has a new resolve to 
go with its new look.
Our team has improved 
tremendously since last year, 
she said. We have seven returning players who have all 
experienced the tough competition we will face, and we 
have ? ve very talented freshmen that add a lot to our 
team.
Two of those ? rst-years, 
guards Gabrielle West and 
MacKenzie Boyd, started making a difference early on in 
the season. Both players have 
proved to be potent offensive 
threats, especially from behind the arc.
Combining the young talent with veteran experience, 
the Tartans hope to make a 
statement in the UAA that 
they are back, ready to compete, and determined to win. 
According to Peel, her teammates are ready to make 
that statement. We are hard 
workers, dedicated, and will 
never give up, she said.
The womens basketball 
team ? nishes up its home 
stand this week with games 
against Oberlin College and 
Point Park University on Friday and Saturday.
Yesterday, the Tartans defeated Penn State Altoona, 
9446. Peel led the way with 
32 points.
The ups and downs of Tartan basketball
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
After a three-game win 
streak, the Carnegie Mellon 
mens basketball team has 
lost two straight. In the last 
four, the men have gone 22, 
playing two very contrasting 
modes of basketball.
In the two victories, senior 
John Duhring led the offense 
to at least 40 percent shooting 
from the ? eld. The two losses 
saw the Tartans shoot sub-40 
percent and Duhring average 
three points.
When Duhring was hot, 
his teammates also shot 
well. In the ? rst of these four 
games, the Tartans picked up 
their success from the previous game against Penn State 
Behrend to win their second 
straight game at the expense 
of the Allegheny College Gators.
Duhring poured in 19 
points, followed by sophomore Rashaun Rileys 16 
points, converting on a sizzling four of ? ve attempts 
from three-point territory. 
Duhring hit two clutch free 
throws and dished out ? ve assists as the orchestrator in this 
6764 victory.
On Saturday, Nov. 26, the 
Tartans hosted their annual 
DoubleTree Carnegie Mellon 
tournament. In the opening 
game against Otterbein University, the Tartans collectively put together their most 
impressive offensive performance of the season as all 
? ve starters scored in double 
? gures. This led to a 7770 
victory.
Duhring led the squad with 
14 points, sophomore Christian Manoli added 13, senior 
John Kromka had 12, sophomore Sean Brophy had 11, and 
Riley poured in 10 points. The 
squad shot 56 percent from 
the ? eld.
In the championship of 
the DoubleTree tournament, 
the Lebanon Valley College 
Dutchmen blew out the Tartans, 7858. Duhring struggled, scoring just four points. 
Kromka and Riley led the 
team in this bout with 18 and 
15 points, respectively. But 
shooting just 38.5 percent 
from the ? eld and allowing 
the Dutchmen to shoot 49.3 
percent led to the Tartans undoing. Additionally, the Tartans were out-rebounded by 
10, 4838.
Wednesday, Nov. 30,  
was an even worse performance for the Tartans. Again, 
Duhring couldnt ? nd the hot 
hand he had in the games 
against Allegheny College 
and Otterbein University, 
and was only able to hit one 
? eld goal against Catholic 
University. Sophomore Asad 
Meghani had a good game 
off the bench with 11 points, 
and Manoli and Riley had 12 
each. However, their 30.5 percent ? eld goal percentage led 
to just 50 points on the night, 
and the Tartans lost by 12 to 
the Cardinals. The Tartans 
defense also gave up a minus 
15-rebound differential and 
allowed the Cardinals to shoot 
44 percent from the ? eld.
On Tuesday, the Tartans 
will face the Bethany College 
Bison on the road. The Tartans did not play the Bison last 
season.
Tommy Hofman/Photo Editor
Sophomore Christian Manoli posts a 9.7 points per game mark this year.
Tommy Hofman/Photo Editor
Gabrielle West leads all CMU ? rst-years with 12.7 points per game.
Tommy Hofman/Photo Editor
First-year MacKenzie Boyd shoots 58.3 percent from three-point range.
JEREMY KING
Staffwriter
In the ? nal stretch of the 
NFL season, headlines are 
typically dominated by playoff and divisional races, with 
teams ? ghting for their right 
to play in the Super Bowl for 
the coveted Vince Lombardi 
Trophy. However, the Week 
12 headlines were speared by 
a couple of players solidifying 
their reputations as stupid.
The Detroit Lions Ndamukong Suh, one of the best 
young defensive tackles in the 
game, shoved Packers guard 
Evan Dietrich-Smiths helmet 
into the grass and subsequently stomped on his arm after a 
play brought them both to the 
ground. Suh was then rightfully ejected from the Thanksgiving game. On Sunday, Buffalo Bills wide receiver Stevie 
Johnson mocked Jets wide 
receiver Plaxico Burress in his 
touchdown dance, pretending 
to shoot himself in the leg in 
the end zone. Both Suh and 
Johnson were ? scally penalized for their stupidity, and 
Suh has now been suspended 
for two games.
Ill start off with Suh. He 
is considered one of the best 
players in the game and has 
been regarded highly ever 
since he was a top-? ve pick in 
the NFL draft. However, since 
he entered the league, he has 
gained a reputation as one of 
the dirtiest players in the NFL. 
He has already been ? ned 
over $100,000 multiple times, 
with this being his ? rst suspension. Following his actions 
on Thanksgiving Day, Suh has 
started to hurt not only his 
wallet, but also the reputation 
and success of his team.
Funny thing is, Suh proved 
to all of us that he hadnt 
learned a thing from being 
kicked out of the game. During his postgame press conference, Suh repeatedly claimed 
that he stomped down with 
his foot in order to free himself from the situation, implying that he actually meant 
no harm by his actions. This 
is absurd. Suh clearly hasnt 
learned anything, and his belated apology to the commissioner and his feeble attempt 
to defuse the situation later on 
Facebook are laughable.
Next up is Bills wide receiver Johnson, who thought 
it would be a great idea to 
make fun of Plaxico Burresss 
gun-carrying mistake that 
occured just a few years ago. 
Johnson, who is known for his 
elaborate touchdown celebrations even with todays strict 
NFL celebration rules, went 
a step further by referencing 
something that put another 
player in jail. As if that wasnt 
SPORTS COMMENTARYA week of reprehensible actions in NFL
See NFL, A11
Mens Soccer
Senior Nick Gianopoulos was named a Capitol One 
Academic All-American
Football
Junior cornerback Sam Thompson set a school record 
and ? nished second in all of Division III with seven 
interceptions on the season

---------------------------------------------------

Teenie Harris           
Exhibit immerses viewers in Pittsburgh 
photographers life work  B4
12.05.11 Volume 106, Issue 14

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Find out what happens when Santa goes 
digital.
8
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2011 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Patrick Gage Kelley EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Michael Kahn OPERATIONS MANAGER Celia Ludwinski 
PILLBOX EDITOR Anna Walsh ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Allison Cosby COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Tommy Hofman 
LAYOUT MANAGER Stacey Chin COPY MANAGER Katie Chironis COVER Patrick Gage Kelley
77
3456
Advice
Everything you need to know about The Wire 
and Occupy Wall Street.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Student reading
The final creative writing student reading of the 
semester had Ugly Sweater as its theme.
3
Teenie Harris
The Carnegie Museum of Art pays tribute to a 
Pittsburgh photographer in a new exhibit.
4
Support wall
An anonymous Carnegie Mellon project allows 
women to get advice via bathroom stall doors.
5
Dog Sees God
ScotchnSoda presents a dark play about the 
Peanuts characters as adolescents.
5
Oscars
Hollywood blockbusters and low-budget 
independent films contend for the nominations.
6
Mad Forest
The School of Dramas play transports the 
audience back to the Romanian Revolution.
7
Puzzles
Challenge yourself with this weeks Sudoku 
and Kakuro puzzles.
  9
Horoscopes
See what the stars have in store for you during 
the coming weeks classes and finals.
10
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh in the upcoming week.
12

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 12.05.113
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
I just got the complete 
series of The Wire and 
I really want to start 
watching it. But finals are 
coming up, and I know if I 
start watching I wont stop 
until I finish every episode. 
Is there any way I can have 
my cake and eat it too?
Thanks,
Barely Attentive but 
Diligently Learning, 
Yet Shows Temptation. 
Uncertainly Deciding: 
Yes, I Need Guidance
Dear BADLY STUDYING,
At least you have good 
taste in TV shows. If this 
were Two and Half Men 
we were talking about, Id 
tell you to burn it and get 
back to studying. But with 
The Wire we have a real 
dilemma. On the one hand, 
you dont want to flunk out 
of school. On the other, 
its a really good show. 
Watching what goes on in 
the Baltimore war on drugs 
is so much more riveting 
than calculus. 
Now, theres a very simple 
solution that may even help 
your studying. People tend 
to procrastinate because 
they lose a sense of the 
rewards for their work. 
Instead of doing this, use 
it as a reward. You can 
watch one episode after 
youve made a review 
sheet, and another after 
youve taken a practice 
test, but only if you scored 
above an 80.
Or just have a marathon 
and get straight Cs,
Patrick Hoskins 
Dear Patrick,
Ive been protesting the 
Wall Street industrial 
complex for years. But now 
these Occupy dudes come 
along and theyre all about 
how Wall Street is bad and 
banks need to go. Give 
me a break  theyre just 
doing it to pick up chicks. 
And now that everyones 
doing it, its harder for me 
to pick up chicks. How can 
I raise my street cred?
Thanks,
Picking Up 
Hipsters, Liberals, 
Environmentalists, and 
the Socially Engaged
Dear PUH-LEASE,
I hear you, man. It used 
to be that you could just 
complain about how 
Congress was bought and 
paid for, and everyone 
would think you were 
insightful and knew about 
politics. Now they just 
give you a dumb look. Its 
become a lot harder to 
seem like you care without 
doing any actual work.
Theres a simple fix, 
though, that will have 
hippie girls crawling all 
over you, with just an 
afternoons work. Go to 
one of those Occupy 
protests right before the 
police move in, and then 
make sure you get maced 
and/or beaten. If theres 
anything girls like, its 
baton-sized bruises.
Chicks dig rap sheets,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About The Wire and protesting Wall StreetReading series ends on high note
Student reading features humorous, introspective works
The final installment of the creative writing student 
reading series took place last Thursday in the 
Gladys Schmitt Creative Writing Center, featuring 
senior creative writing majors Madeleine Barnes, 
Samantha Frank, Yulin Kuang, Caroline Roper, and 
Jesse Leung.
The theme of the evening was Ugly Sweater, in 
honor of the upcoming holiday season. The venue 
was a little too small for the number of people in 
attendance, but instead of making it cramped and 
uncomfortable, it gave the space a cozy, coffeehouse (unfortunately sans coffee) environment.
While each of the readers had a unique voice and 
had interesting work to read, Barnes and Kuang 
stole the show. Kuang, who is majoring in creative 
writing and minoring in film and media studies, read 
a personal essay she had written on going through 
life with an unusual name. Her essay was humorous 
and had a conversational feel to it; despite the fact 
that it was her first time reading at one of these 
events, she seemed very comfortable presenting her 
work.
Barnes, a BHA student in creative writing and art, 
closed the night, reading intimate poems about daily 
occurrences, feelings, and dreams. Her poems were 
deeply introspective and easy to connect with. Its 
kind of scary, but super fun, Barnes said of reading 
her work for an audience.
After the five students had read, there was a raffle 
and an ugly sweater contest, keeping with the 
theme of the night. Many readers and attendees 
stayed around afterward, chatting and commenting 
on the work that was presented. There seemed to 
be a strong sense of community among the creative 
writing majors, and that sense of community made 
the event a success.
Most of the attendees were other English majors; 
some were there to support friends, others to fulfill 
class requirements. Creative writing professor Jim 
Daniels also made an appearance at the event. Its 
a funny mix, which just makes it all the more fun, 
said Kyle Rood, a fifth-year senior double major in 
architecture and creative writing who organized the 
event with senior creative writing major Caroline 
Kessler.
Those uninvolved in the planning of the event 
seemed to enjoy it just as much. This is the first 
student reading Ive been to, and I really enjoyed 
the different voices from the different writers, said 
sophomore creative writing major Amanda Yuan.
On organizing the student reading events 
throughout the semester, Rood said, Its been a 
lot of fun. Its really cool to introduce our students, 
since theyre also our friends, and listen to them 
share their work. Barnes and senior creative writing 
majors Ines Pujos and Ila Foley will organize and run 
the series next semester.
Allison Cosby | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Editors note: Caroline Kessler is a staffwriter for The 
Tartan.
Jonathan Carreon | Staff
Senior creative writing major Samantha Frank read a poem and excerpts from three stories at the last 
creative writing student reading of the semester.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 12.05.11
When you push open the glass doors of the Carnegie 
Museum of Arts latest exhibit, Teenie Harris, 
Photogapher: An American Story, youre greeted by a 
? oor-to-ceiling portrait of Harris and lilting jazz music 
from the 1930s. The multi-faceted exhibit is expansive 
enough to encompass Harris rich life work.
Charles Teenie Harris (19081998) was born in 
Pittsburghs Hill District. He photographed a wide 
variety of subjects in his studio and in the streets of 
Pittsburgh, amassing over 80,000 negatives in the course 
of his lifetime. Ten years ago, the Carnegie Museum of 
Art acquired nearly all 80,000 of those negatives and has 
been building and researching the archive ever since.
The result is a massively impressive, interactive exhibit 
featuring 987 of Harris images on a variety of themes. 
An advisory committee of prominent scholars, educators, 
and opinion makers helped select the images.
One of the uniting and unique aspects of the gallery 
is the original seven-track score that plays throughout 
the exhibit. Composed by MCG Jazz speci? cally for the 
occasion, the music is synchronized with the slideshow 
presentation of the images in one part of the gallery. 
The music makes reference to Pittsburghs evolving 
landscape from the 1930s to the 1970s, when Harris lived 
and worked.
The most arresting part of the exhibit may be the ? oorto-ceiling projections of the 987 images, divided by 
theme. The wall display smoothly rotates among images 
in groupings titled Rise and Fall of Crawford Grill, 
Urban Landscapes, Gatherings, Words and Signs, 
At Home, Crossroads, and Style. These headings 
give the viewer a sense of the broad scope of Harris 
work.
With ample benches provided, one can get lost in the 
projections, staring at the faces and scenes of Pittsburgh 
from decades ago. Harris was especially adept at 
capturing a wide variety of people, not just African 
Americans. The projections show former President 
Dwight Eisenhower; a smiling, nameless waitress; the 
famous African-American singer, Sarah Vaughn; and the 
Westinghouse High School boys basketball team, all in 
one rotation.
The projected images are without caption, but the next 
room contains all 987 images in chronological order. 
Neatly arranged along the perimeter of the room, the 
photographs are in a more manageable ? ve-by-seveninch format. The museum provides free audio guides, a 
cell phone tour, and a directory, which lists the caption 
and history of every single photograph.
Additionally, more than 20 computers are lined up 
in the middle of this large gallery, allowing viewers 
to interactively access the images, videos, and other 
information from the online archive. Many of the images 
were taken for the Pittsburgh Courier, the nationallycirculated black newsweekly of the time.
The ? nal section of the gallery contains 12 images that 
Harris printed himself, some of which were selected 
by Carnegie Mellons own Linda Benedict-Jones, an 
adjunct history professor; Charlee Brodsky, a design 
professor; and Joe W. Trotter, a history professor. The 
images are accompanied by a brief written explanation 
of why the image was selected and an exploration of the 
composition.
Overall, the exhibition is beautifully done. With multiple 
entry points, via the online archive or the digital 
projections, theres a chance for viewers of all ages and 
experience levels to access the material on more than 
one level. Harris work offers the chance to go back 
in time, to examine the vibrant black community of 
Pittsburgh through Jim Crow laws and the civil rights 
era.
Caroline Kessler | Staffwriter
The exhibit is on display from now until April 7, 2012. 
The Carnegie Museum of Art offers free admission with 
a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
Girl reading comic book in newsstand by Charles Teenie Harris, courtesy of the Heinz Family Fund and the Teenie Harris Archive  2006 Carnegie Museum of Art
Above: Eartha Kitt was a singer and actress, best 
known for her recording of Santa Baby.
Left: Teenie Harris photographed a wide variety of 
subjects, from presidents and celebrities to ordinary 
citizens.
Teenie Harris provides interactive experience
Exhibit at Carnegie Museum of Art immerses viewers in Pittsburgh photographers life work
 Eartha Kitt leaping though poster... by Charles Teenie Harris, courtesy of the 
Carnegie Museum of Art

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 12.05.115
Dog Sees God reveals bittersweet transition
Play follows favorite Peanuts characters as teenagers, includes melodramatic details
Grief aint good is sloppily spray painted against a 
yellow background, a reference to the iconic black and 
yellow polo shirt Charlie Brown is so famously associated 
with. This cleverly-constructed set design and spray 
painted message set the tone for the play before the 
production of Dog Sees God: Confessions of a Teenage 
Blockhead began this past Saturday.
Dog Sees God was ? rst presented by Sorrel Tomlinson 
in 2004 and was adapted at Carnegie Mellon by 
ScotchnSoda Theatre this past weekend by ? rst-year 
international relations and politics major Raz Golden 
in McConomy Auditorium. The story follows some of 
the beloved Peanuts characters as teenagers and the 
complicated lives that each of them has developed.
There are lots of shows that try to take on the life of 
the teenager. We all know those shows, like the ones on 
ABC Family, said Golden. This show gives a view in 
the transition period that teenagers experience, pointing 
out that it is bittersweet. I tried to stay true to the story 
and script. Regarding his directing debut at Carnegie 
Mellon with ScotchnSoda, Golden said, The process 
of directing was scary but worthwhile, especially as a 
freshman. But we are freshmen; we are not like little 
children. We have as much to say as anyone else on 
campus.
The play serves as an enormous juxtaposition with the 
image that the audiences have concerning the Peanuts 
characters. Most of those familiar with the cartoon and 
comic strip think of them as adorable, innocent, and 
lovable third graders. However, in this play, none of them 
is as adorable. None of them is as innocent (or innocent 
at all, really). And none of them is as lovable.
The ensemble held a strong dynamic throughout the 
production, as the actors seemed to work very well with 
one another. This was especially evident in one of the 
most memorable scenes where the muddled CB (? rstyear chemical engineering major Evan Starkweather) 
visits Vans Sister (sophomore mechanical engineering 
major Christy St. John), who has been institutionalized 
for setting a red-headed girls hair on ? re.
First-year computer science major David Allen said, I 
thought the play was cool. I had seen the play before so 
I knew what to expect. It was still great to see how this 
production put it together.
After the production St. John said, I like being able to 
play around with my scene partners. I would put the 
scene in a smaller venue, though. I want to be able to 
touch the audience if I wanted to.
The publicity for this show seemed to be less 
widespread compared to ScotchnSodas last 
production, Urinetown. For example, the Facebook event 
for this production was created Nov. 28  only four days 
before the shows opening performance  and had a 
little over 260 people attending and over 1,200 invited. 
Urinetowns event group was created Oct. 19 when the 
show premiered on Oct. 27 and had over 450 people 
attending and over 2,100 invited.
Dog Sees God may have not have been as welladvertised as it could have been, but a talented 
group of students made the production enjoyable, 
although the play did feature many traumatic events. 
Ultimately, this raised the question of whether or not 
all the melodramatic details were really integral to the 
production. The production forced the audience to 
consider how these characters and their distressing 
stories are relevant to the world we live in.
Juan Acosta | Staffwriter
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Notecards with questions and responses are taped to 
the back of bathroom stall doors around campus.
Women ? nd support, give advice in bathroom stalls
Share and Support walls around campus provide space for anonymous questions, advice
Everyone ? nds inspiration at different times in different 
places, but inside a bathroom stall may not be the ? rst 
place most would expect. Many Carnegie Mellon women 
may have noticed Share and Support walls in womens 
bathrooms in Hunt Library, Margaret Morrison, Baker 
Hall, Porter Hall, or even off campus at Kiva Han. These 
walls were created anonymously as a project to observe 
how women interact and how they support each other.
The temporary walls are made up of small folded cards 
or slips of paper that say Problem: on the front, and 
Solution: on the inside. There were also little boxes 
on the bottom of some of the cards where women could 
place an X if they found the solutions helpful.
The project has its own Tumblr page, 
shareandsupportwall.tumblr.com, where photos of all 
the cards with the problems and solutions have been 
posted by date and location. The website also has a 
graph representing the problems and solutions that were 
obtained; it showed that most of the problems posted 
had to do with stress or love, and most of the responses 
either gave encouragement or suggested a course of 
action.
There are mixed feelings among women at Carnegie 
Mellon about the walls. Jessika Louissaint, a junior 
double majoring in biology and policy and management, 
said, The content was very interesting in that people 
get a chance to talk about their feelings but with some 
privacy. However, I feel that people may not take it 
seriously, or may judge people.
Junior policy and management major Jenn Brown said, 
I think its a cute idea. I feel like some people are rude in 
the responses, which is kind of disappointing. If I were 
to write a question, I would want a real response. Both 
said they hadnt written a problem, but Brown said she 
has written at least one response. She even crossed off 
some of the negative comments that she saw.
Other women agreed that the wall was a good idea, 
but that there were some responses that were not very 
edifying. Ruthie Neely, an employee at Kiva Han, said, 
The idea was cool, but I dont know why it was only 
for women. I didnt understand why it was a gendered 
idea.
All of the problems appeared to be genuine, and most 
have received multiple suggested solutions. A few 
responses were either negative or disconcerting, but 
most were encouraging and sympathetic.
Zaneta Grant | Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

6film
pillbox 12.05.11
Finally, after 10 months of anxiously waiting (nearly 
recovering from the debacle that was the HathawayFranco hosting gig), the 2012 Oscar season is here. 
Although the Academy Awards arent until Feb. 26 
of next year, the just-as-tense pre-awards nomination 
race is in full swing. Following is a bit of a cross-section 
of this years best ? lms in an effort to familiarize you 
with this years slew of Oscar hopefuls and make a few 
predictions and parallels. These are mostly speculated 
from personal movie viewings as well as in response to 
pre-Oscar movie festival turn-outs and movie release 
reviews and grosses.
There are already forerunners in a few of the major 
categories: Viola Davis (The Help) and Meryl Streep (for 
the prescreened The Iron Lady) are probably leading the 
Best Actress nominations; Michael Fassbender (Shame) 
and George Clooney (The Descendants) are in a toss-up 
for the Best Actor win; and Martin Scorsese (Hugo) and 
Steven Spielberg (for the not-yet-released but alreadypopularized War Horse) are among the favorites for Best 
Director.
The heated Best Picture race has been under the 
spotlight since the academy changed the nomination 
pool from a strict 10 ? lms to somewhere between ? ve 
and 10 ? lms earlier this year. Listed below are ? lms that 
will likely be top contenders for the award, including 
? lms that have been released and ? lms that have yet 
to be released but have already been lauded by eager 
movie critics:
The Descendants: This dramatic comedy, a story about 
a father re-examining his life after the accidental death 
of his wife, has earned critical appraisal for its warm 
tone and performances. Although the ? lm itself is likely 
to be nominated, most critics doubt that it will persuade 
the likes of academy voters and come out victorious. 
Acclaimed performances by Clooney and newcomer 
Shailene Woodley (from ABC Familys tween sensation 
The Secret Life of the American Teenager) are more 
likely to take home the Oscars.
Hugo: This Martin Scorsese-directed magical ? lm has 
already earned a wide array of critical acclaim, including 
the award for Best Film of 2011 by the National Board of 
Review. Perhaps the academy will reward this whimsical 
? lm despite its straying away from the traditional Best 
Picture precedent.
The Help: Based on Kathryn Stocketts bestselling novel, 
this ? lm was widely acclaimed for its performances and 
screenplay following its August premiere. Although 
many critics were inspired by its warm message of 
friendship and sisterhood, some criticized the movie for 
not taking enough risks. Given that the majority of critics 
thought it was fantastic, however, it still has nomination 
potential.
The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo: Directed by David 
Fincher (who also directed The Social Network), this ? lm, 
set to release Dec. 21, has been heavily anticipated by 
critics and moviegoers for months now. Extended trailers 
and promotions have increased its popularity, and many 
are beginning to foresee an Oscar nomination for this 
edgy offering.
Midnight in Paris: One of the only comedies on the 
contenders list, this movie has garnered numerous high 
approval ratings for its performances and directing. Its 
said to be Woody Allens best ? lm in a while.
Moneyball: A long-standing hit with fans and critics after 
its late-September release, Moneyball, starring Brad Pitt 
(in what has been applauded as his best performance 
yet), is a true story with deep life morals. If Oscar voters 
understand the elevation of this movie from a normal 
sports classic, it has a solid chance to be among the 
nominees.
Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close: This movie 
is adapted from Jonathan Safron Foers renowned 
novel about a boy coping with his fathers death on 
9/11. Although it does not arrive in theaters until 
Dec. 25, many critics have high hopes for the literary 
classic because of the books success and the movies 
extraordinary casting (Tom Hanks and Sandra Bullock, to 
name just two).
The academy usually nominates ? lms from a wide 
spectrum and hands the victory to either the Hollywood 
blockbuster or the low-budget, more independent ? lm. 
The Artist, a movie centered on the Hollywood silent 
? lm era, attracted rave reviews after its late November 
release for its brilliant acting and evocation of the era. 
A larger budget ? lm, War Horse, directed by Steven 
Spielberg, releases later this month and has been 
painted as an instant epic classic for its cinematography 
and plot (shown to be tried and true by its previous 
versions as a book and play). These two ? lms have the 
highest probability to take home the golden statue based 
on what the academy tends to go for.
So who will win? Will it be one of these predictions or 
none of the above? Maybe its time for the Harry Potter 
franchise to receive academy acknowledgment for its 
? nal ? lm or for the ambivalently-reviewed Terrence 
Malick ? lm The Tree of Life to obtain a nomination, even 
though it seemed to baf? e many critics.
Daniel Cohanpour | Junior Staffwriter
Many top contenders for approaching Academy Awards
Hollywood blockbusters, independent ? lms vie for spots in heated Best Picture nominations
Christa Hester | Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 12.05.117
A blood-lusting vampire, a rebellious son, and a bigoted 
father were among the characters that took the stage 
Friday night in the School of Dramas production of Caryl 
Churchills Mad Forest. Set in the years surrounding 
the 1989 Romanian Revolution, the play explores life in 
Romania under the dictatorship of communist leader 
Nicolae Ceaucescu, the violent uprising that overthrew 
him, and the ensuing period of insecurity. Infused with 
documentary-like elements and magic realism, Mad 
Forest draws attention to human drama during a littleknown revolution and tests boundaries between theater 
and ? lm, fact and ? ction.
The play follows the experiences of two families, the 
Vladus and the Antonescus. At the plays opening, 
both families experience hardships under Ceaucescus 
regime. The Vladu family suffers public scrutiny as 
a result of the engagement of their daughter Lucia, 
played by senior drama student Ava DeLuca-Verley, 
to an American. Meanwhile, young Radu Antonescu 
(senior drama student Noah Plomgren) ? nds his own 
revolutionary sentiments growing despite his parents 
in? uence, as well as his infatuation with Lucias sister 
Florina (senior drama student Lilli Passero). Over the 
course of the play, these characters face dif? culties not 
only leading up to the revolution, but also in its chaotic 
wake.
The set was minimal, with tall gray beams that evoked 
the cold industrialism that is typically associated with 
communist Eastern Europe. Despite the bareness of the 
set, however, the stage was brought to life by the vibrant 
and skilled actors. Even on opening night, the entire play 
ran without a visible hitch.
A lengthy series of mock television interviews was an 
unexpected but powerful conclusion to the ? rst half of 
the play. Actors portrayed witnesses to the revolutionary 
violence, offering their testimonies in a televised setting. 
These interviews were pre-recorded and projected onto 
the set, rather than acted out on stage. This departure 
from on-stage acting blurred boundaries between 
theater and ? lm; though on-stage actors occasionally 
supplemented the recorded interviews, there was very 
little live activity while the recordings played.
In addition to testing boundaries of theater and ? lm, the 
interviews also crossed certain lines between fact and 
? ction. Though the interviewees on screen were actors, 
the setup evoked certain documentary-like elements, 
giving the audience a false sense of factuality. At the 
same time, however, the interviews were a powerful 
reminder that the events portrayed in the play, though 
told by ? ctional characters, were very violent realities to 
those who witnessed the revolution ? rsthand.
Another unexpected element of the play was the 
presence of vampires, angels, ghosts, and other 
supernatural ? gures. Though this magical aspect added 
an interesting dimension to the play, these elements 
seemed somewhat out of place; it was dif? cult to see 
how the supernatural dimension helped to further 
develop or add to the play.
Despite some eccentric elements, Mad Forest is overall 
a fascinating experience, offering a look into the rarely 
discussed Romanian Revolution through compelling 
characters and techniques that deviate from mainstream 
theater production.
Rachel Cohen | Junior Staffwriter
School of Drama tests boundaries of theater
Mad Forest blurs lines between fact and ? ction, theater and ? lm as it explores Romanian Revolution
Courtesy of Louis Stein
Playwright Caryl Churchill traveled to Romania months after the revolution ended to develop Mad Forest.

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 12.05.11
Last-Ditch Effort by John Kroeskroes@lde-online.com
Online at www.lde-online.com 
Apartment 4H by Joe Medwid and Dave Rhodenbaughjmedwid@andrew
Online at www.4hcomic.com 

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 12.05.119
Solutions from Nov. 21, 2011
CrosswordEasy DifficultyMedium Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Very Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Killer Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.com/killersudoku
In addition to normal sudoku rules, the dotted lines indicate 
areas that also contain a non-repeating set of digits. These 
squares can be added together to produce the sums shown 
in the clues.

---------------------------------------------------

10horoscopes
pillbox 12.05.11
1. Canadian gas brand
2. Tenn. neighbor
3. Shane star
4. Append
5. Mohammedan
6. Diamond corners
7. North Carolina college
8. Battery size
9. Witty reply
10. Permitting light to pass through
11. Table d____
12. Ambience
13. How sweet ____!
18. Dutch cheese
23. Bambis aunt
24. Resembling a tree in size
25. Alleviated
26. New Zealand aboriginal
27. City on the Ruhr
28. Festive occasions
29. N Atlantic archipelago
30. Atoll unit
31. Night noise
32. Alma _____
34. Sudden burst
37. Smackdab
41. Scorn
43. Bus. bigwig
44. Protracted
46. Brainy bunch
47. Four-sided fig.
48. ____ breve
49. Approach
50. Campus mil. group
51. Strikes
52. Cheer
53. The Dukes of Hazzard deputy
56. Actor Herbert
57. Cats monogram
1. Chinas Zhou _____
6. Endure
10. Asian cuisine
14. Lots
15. Winglike parts
16. Defeat decisively
17. It was never intended to be a 
leather cleaner
19. Longfellows bell town
20. Old California fort
21. Arabian Sea gulf
22. Trojan War hero
24. Latin 101 word
25. Sea birds
26. Caprice
29. Submission to fate
33. Easy _____
34. Freelancers encl.
35. Annapolis inst.
36. Capital of Norway
37. Bender
38. Coagulate
39. Back
40. Jail
41. Caterpillar competitor
42. Not safe
44. Fuzz remover
45. Chair
46. Lions share
47. Ill will
50. Rip apart
51. Charlemagnes realm: Abbr.
54. Gen. Robert ____
55. Stretching
58. Extended family
59. A great deal
60. Playground retort
61. Fruit-filled pie
62. Village People hit
63. Bird homes
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You are lucky because this whole last-week-of-class and 
upcoming-finals fear doesnt phase you. Be a good person 
and share your secrets with others.
taurus
april 20may 20
Now would be a really good time to start brown-nosing. 
Your grades are on the border, and its time to push them 
over to the right side of the line.
gemini
may 21june 21
Sleep is the enemy and must be fought with full force and 
will. You can succumb to it soon enough, but right now it is 
to be avoided at all costs.  
cancer
june 22july 22
Dont worry, the stars show that you will pass your finals.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Try not to harm a Capricorn; it will only cause more delay in 
your schedule.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Be prepared to help your Gemini friends deal with the fact 
that they passed their finals with a B. Theyll be a bit angry.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Dont get so wrapped up in yourself this week; instead, 
do something nice for others. No one has too much good 
karma.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Please make sure to read all the directions on your 
upcoming exams. You have been a little absent-minded, 
but thats to be expected with all the work youve been 
doing.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Do it with me: deep breath in, now exhale slowly, deep 
breath in, exhale slowly. Only one more week of Professor 
You-Know-Who. Only one more week of Professor YouKnow-Who. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Youre on top of your game, Capricorn. You are so 
organized and prepared that you are counting the days 
until spring semester begins and have already read half the 
books for next semesters classes.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Take some time this week and toss your responsibilities 
aside. You have deadlines coming up and you may not 
have the notes from that one important lecture, but thats 
okay. Things will be okay.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Finals + holiday music + stress = snack time. Stock up on 
the good stuff and make yourself happy. 
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 12.05.1111
MONDAY12.5.11
In The Raw: The One That Got Away. 937 Liberty 
Avenue Building. 7 p.m.
In The Raw is a play development laboratory run by 
Bricolage, a theater production company that works to 
create a more active theater experience for the audience. 
In The Raw gives playwrights the opportunity to present 
a reading of their new work; after the performance, the 
audience participates in an open discussion with the 
playwright about the play. The One That Got Away, a new 
play by Michael McGovern, tells the story of a cocktail 
party that gets more ? irtatious and outrageous as the 
evening progresses.
TUESDAY12.6.11
Turtle Island Quartet. Carnegie Music Hall. 7:30 p.m.
This Grammy Award-winning quartet, which takes its 
name from a Native American creation myth, combines 
classical quartet arrangements with contemporary 
American music styles. Turtle Island Quartet won a 
Grammy for Best Classical Crossover Album in 2006 with 
4+Four and again in 2008 with A Love Supreme: The 
Legacy of John Coltrane. Last year, the quartet released 
Have You Ever Been...?: The Music of Jimi Hendrix and 
David Balakrishnan, which allaboutjazz.com described as 
a great reminder of the in? uence that Hendrix still holds 
on contemporary music.
WEDNESDAY12.7.11
2011 Building Virtual Worlds Show. Carnegie Library 
Music Hall, Munhall, Pa. 4 p.m.
The Entertainment Technology Center presents the work 
created in its Building Virtual Worlds class, in which 
students work in small interdisciplinary teams to create 
a series of short interactive experiences. Two trolleys will 
be available to shuttle Carnegie Mellon students to and 
from the show on a ? rst-come, ? rst-served basis. The 
trolleys, supplied by Mollys Trolleys, will load up in the UC 
turnaround from 2:30 to 2:45 p.m. and will bring students 
back to campus immediately after the show ends.
THURSDAY12.8.11
Christmas Brasstacular. Carnegie Music Hall.
7:30 p.m.
The River City Brass Band will perform with local youth 
choirs in this iteration of its Christmas Brasstacular 
concert series. The band, which will perform eight 
different Christmas Brasstacular concerts in December 
at different locations in the Pittsburgh area, has been 
together for almost 30 years. It has been described by 
the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review as putting the fun back 
into music.
I Got Next. McConomy Auditorium. 8 p.m.
AB Films presents a free pre-screening of I Got Next, a 
documentary about the ? ghting video game scene. It ? rst 
began as director Ian Co? nos senior project at Purchase 
College, but grew from a short documentary into a 
feature-length production. Co? no, who paid for the entire 
production of the ? lm himself, traveled to tournaments 
up and down the East Coast to interview the best Street 
Fighter players in the country.
FRIDAY12.9.11
Holiday Concert. Rangos Hall, University Center. Noon.
The School of Music presents its annual holiday concert, 
featuring the Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic and choirs. 
The performance will include Fantasia On Christmas 
Carols by Ralph Vaughan Williams with baritone soloist 
Daniel Teadt, a voice faculty member at the School of 
Music, and an a cappella arrangement of the spiritual 
The Story of the Twelve. Due to popular demand, there 
will be a second performance at 8 p.m. at the Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland. While the performance in Rangos 
is free, the performance at the music hall is $5 in advance 
and $7 at the door. Carnegie Mellon students get one free 
ticket with their ID at the door.
SATURDAY12.10.11
Occupy Pittsburghs International Human Rights 
Day. The Kingsley Association, 6435 Frankstown Ave. 
Noon.
Members of Occupy Pittsburgh will host an indoor 
rally, followed by a march through the area, in honor of 
International Human Rights Day. The day honors the 
anniversary of the United Nations General Assemblys 
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
which was the ? rst such global proclamation of human 
rights. Occupy Pittsburgh has been occupying Mellon 
Green downtown near the BNY Mellon building for nearly 
two months.
SUNDAY12.11.11
Beirut. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Beirut was originally the brainchild of Zach Condon, a 
New Mexico native who recorded most of the groups 
? rst album, Gulag Orkestar, in his bedroom. The album, 
which combines elements of indie folk and Eastern 
European music, was released in 2006 to overwhelmingly 
positive reviews: The Guardian described it as a sublime 
mix of optimism and resignation. Since then, Beirut 
has expanded to include more band members and has 
released four EPs and two more full-length albums.
MONDAY12.12.11
Strange Fruit: An Artist Talk With Darin Mickey. 
Spaces Corners. 7:30 p.m.
Darin Mickey, a photographer, musician, and faculty 
member at the International Center of Photography in 
New York City, will discuss his current exhibit at Spaces 
Corners titled Strange Fruit. Spaces Corners is a small 
bookshop, gallery, and project space dedicated to 
contemporary photography. It is located inside the Ice 
House Artist Studios in Lawrenceville.
ONGOING
The Nutcracker. Benedum Center for the Performing 
Arts. Through Dec. 23.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theater presents a colorful, grandscale production of this classic ballet by Pyotr Ilyich 
Tchaikovsky. This production is set in Pittsburgh at the 
turn of the 20th century, with scenes that include a Heinz 
delivery truck and a view from Mt. Washington.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

12gallery
pillbox 12.05.11
Anna Walsh | Pillbox Editor
late night.
Stever House hosted its heavily promoted Late Night event, billed as the largest dance party in CMU 
history, last Friday. The dance party collected canned goods as admission and featured sophomore 
information systems major Steve McQuaid as one of the headlining DJs. The event was funded by Student 
Dormitory Council, Student Senate, Stever House, and Late Night.
