GENEEAL ASSEMBLY 
11:30 A. M. TODAY 
MUSIC HALLaraigiE ITartan
JUNIOR BANQUET 
7:00 P. M. SATURDAY 
HOTEL SCHENLEY
VOL. XVIII. NO. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1923
ASSEMBLY TO 
BE ADDRESSED 
BY DR. CURTIS
Director of the Allegheny 
Observatory is on Program 
Together With the M. M. 
Stringers
TO DISCUSS ECLIPSE
Dr. Heber Doust Curtis, Director b 
the Allegheny Observatory, will he 
tlie speaker at General Assembly to
day. The subject of his address is 
"The Eclipse in Mexico. Other fea
tures of the program will be the play
ing of the Stringer's and recitations 
by Mary Power of the Drama Depart
ment.
Dr. Curtis is a noted astronomer. 
His experience in his chosen field 
has been long and varied. He is a 
graduate of the University of Michi
gan and, as a young man was a pro
fessor of Latin, mathematics and 
astronomy. He lias for many years 
devoted himself to astronomical work. 
He was ai member of the United 
States Naval Observatory Eclipse Ex
pedition to Sumatra in 1901, was in 
charge of the Lick Observatory 
Eclipse Station in Labrador in 1905, 
and was chief astronomer of .the D.
O. Mills Expedition, to the Southern 
Hemisphere, 1906 to 1909. From 1909 
to 1920 Dr. Curtis was astronomer 
of the Lick Observatory. In 1920 he 
assumed his present post.
The Stringers have been coaxed 
at other times this year to play at 
General Assembly, but they could 
never be enticed to the point of 
actual appearance. If reports are 
true, their music is worthy of the 
closeness with which they cherish it. 
The dulcet strains of the M. M. 
strings ought! to tickle tlie ear drums 
pleasantly.
Mary] Power has been heard 'by but 
i few of the students. Her recitations 
have the reputation of being very 
entertaining and with her personal
ity to vivify them, they are expected 
to receive a warm welcome.
DR. KAMMERER TO SPEAK r\ rv T P T T"* H I-1 P
AT CHAPEL THURSDAY b(JrfS-rLtDbS
TAKE PART IN
Dr. Percy G. Kammerer, rector of : 
the Trinity Episcopal Church, will j 
speak at chapel services Thursday at
12:50 p. m. Since this is to be tho  . ,   ** n A
last chapel service of the year plans  /V\ h K K Y I I I /Vi R A I
have been completed to make it the j * * Ai-'IVIY X VJi T lUiV X
best service of the year and it is j ____________
hoped that a large number will be j
present to appreciate it. Sophs Hold Plebe Presidents
WHAT WILL BECOME 
OF OLD FIELD GYM?
It May be Converted Into 
Dance Floor or Girls 
Cafeteria
Preliminary Tickets 
On Sale After Jan. 3
Junior Assessment Must be 
Paid Up by Friday
Due to an error last week, announce
ment was made that the. sale of pre
liminary tickets for the Mens Junior 
Prom had started. This was a mis
take as the sale of preliminary tick
ets will not begin until after Christ
mas vacation.
The Junior assessment of $1.50 
must he paid before this Friday. The 
preliminary tickets will he $4.00, but 
if the assessment is paid, they will 
be sold to Juniors at ?2.50. The final 
ticket will cost $5.00 plus the prelim
inary ticket, so that the entire charge 
for the Prom will be $9.00. Each 
Junior who pays his assessment will 
be given a card signed by the treas
urer of the class, stating that he is 
paid up.
The Prom committee lias definitely 
decided on the favors anil the orch
estra. Both of these will be surprises. 
However it may be said that both will 
be far beyond the expectations of 
those attending the Prom.
As announced before, the Prom will 
be held at the Hotel Schenley on the 
evening of February 1. The best en
tertainment ever seen by Carnegie 
Tech students will be offered that 
night.
All Juniors and Seniors are eligible 
to attend this Prom. Better start sav
ing now for that Prom ticket.
A great many rumors have been 
floating about the campus regarding 
the use to he made of the Field House 
after the completion of the new gym. 
Investigation shows that nothing def
inite has been decided, but that sev
eral plans are under consideration.
The most prominent rumor states 
that the Field House will be turned 
into a womens cafeteria. The one 
on the top floor of Maggie Murplis 
would be moved to the new location. 
It is thought that certain advantages 
would be the result of this action. The 
foremost of, these is the convenience 
it would afford the girls living in the 
dormitories. The new location would 
work no hardship on the girls living 
in,the city. It would also be possible 
to accommodate more students and 
give them better service.
Another rumor is that the building 
may be used as a storehouse. This 
rumor does not haye as substantial 
a foundation as the first mentioned 
however. It is also rumored that the 
structure may be converted into a 
dance hall.
Langley Lab. will probably' be 
closed when the new gym is com
pleted, so that floor space for dancing 
will be reduced. It has always, been 
necessary to use the Union, tlie Arts 
Foyer and the Langley Lab. during 
the Mardi Gras and other big dances. 
Some weight then might be attached 
to the dance hall rumor.
Another story says that the Field 
House will be used to house some of 
the school work shops, perhaps tak
ing the place of the carpenter and 
paint shops at tho rear of Langley 
Lab.
Si Hoenniger has suggested that the 
Field House would make good mate
rial for a huge Are. It would make a 
great bonfire and Si thinks it ought 
to arouse a great deal of pep and en
thusiasm. Howevor, Mr. Orbin might 
object to this latter plan.
These are just a few of the many 
rumors floating around. Perhaps in 
a few weeks well know the fate of the 
old Field House.
ARTS JUNIORS WILL 
HOLD RUMMAGE SALE
in ConfinementFreshmen 
on Campus Friday After
noon Tied Up in Dorms
ALMOST GET REVENGE
The capture of the Freshman presi
dents may or may not have prevent
ed the holding of the Freshman ban
quet last Friday night. The Sopho
mores are sure that it did; the Plebes 
refuse to acknowledge as much. At 
any rate, the efforts of the Sopho
mores to make the banquet an im-, 
possibility by tying up the expected 
guests occasioned a beautiful scrim
mage all over the campus.
The Sophomores gathered at the 
Field House at 1:30, according to a 
pre-arranged plan and immediately 
went into action against the not 
wholly unsuspecting Plebes. Parties 
of vigilant Sophs partrolled all parts 
of the campus ready to recive with 
open arms any unfortunate Freshman 
who happened to step outside a 
class room. In some cases aggres
sive tactics were adopted. One 
Freshman group locked itself in 
Room 115, Science, at tlie end of the 
1:30 period, and the Sophomores had 
to knock out the window in tho door 
and dive through the opening in or(Continued on Page Two.)
DR. BAKER SPEAKER 
AT A.S.C.E. BANQUET
Discusses The History of 
the Idea of Progress at 
Wm. Penn
THISTLE BOARD ASKS 
FOR CAMPUS PICTURES
The Thistle Board is sending out 
a call for snap shots. There are 
many students on the campus who 
have interesting pictures of school 
scenes, football trips or other hap
penings. It is to these students 
that ihe board sends its pleaa plea 
for pictures of every description 
whether taken in Pittsburgh, Detroit, 
Washigton or elsewhere just as long 
.s they are Carnegie pictures.
Pictures of Poverty Day costumep, 
class fights, parades, scenes of Plebe 
razzing during opening days of 
school, and all other campus scenes.
Those who have pictures which 
they are witting to submit are re
quested to send their films to The 
Tartan office, care of F. C. Smith 
After prints are made the films will 
he returned to their original owners, 
therefore be careful to mark the 
films properly.
ANNOUNCING WINNERS OF
BANQUET POSTER CONTEST
The results of the Junior Banquet 
Poster Contest have been announced, 
and the judges have awarded prizes 
of $5, $3 and $2 to the winners. Mar
garet Weiland walked away with the
I first prize, Jack Frost with second 
and J. M. Early third. Some very 
clever designs were submitted. The 
best of them have been posted on the 
bulletin boards about the campus.
The Junior Girls in tho College of 
Fine Arts are going to hold p. rum
mage sale, somewhere In Soho, just 
before Christmas vacation, to help in
crease their share of tho funds for 
the WomensJ Prom.
Pennies, nickels, and dimes are not 
so hard to collect, but dollars are dif
ferent. The juniors had a meeting 
last Tuesday, December fourth. They 
decided definitely to have a rummage 
sale. This sale is only one of the 
numerous things the Arts girls have 
planned in order get together their 
quota for the Prom.
Dot Diamond, chairman of the Arts 
Committee spoke at the meeting. She 
said, Girls, we just have to have 
money. Go out and beg, borrow, or 
steal something for this sale. It must 
go over and we must make a success 
of it. Some of their slogans are 
IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING YOU 
DONT NEED BRING IT AROUND 
KOLLECT KLOTHESROUTE 
FOR THE RUMMAGE RALLY.
If you have, or know anyone who 
has any stray or unnecessary clothes, 
shoesetc. stored away in their 
rooms, bring the articles around this 
week or let a Junior girl know about 
them.
League of Women Voters 
Hold First Regular Meet
The first regular meeting of the 
League of Women Voters was held 
yesterday at 12:30 in Room 308 of 
the Margaret Morrison Building. The 
girls bought their lunches in the M. M. 
Cafeteria and carried the trays down 
to Room 308 where luncheon was com
bined with a discussion on the World 
Court. The discussion was led by 
Miss Spillman who graduated from 
Margaret Morrison in 1915. Miss 
S'pillman has a most charming per
sonality,. and the girls who attended 
the meeting are quite enthusiastic 
about the program outlined by her for 
future meetings.
CAPT. SHERRILL REPLACES
WALKER OF SIGNAL CORPS
Dr. Bakor spoke at the banquot of 
the American Society of Civil Engi
neers which was held at tho William 
Penn Hotel yesterday. The men of 
the Carnegie Student Chapter wero 
guests at tho meeting which was hold 
at 8 p. m.
The subject of Dr. Bakers speech 
was "The History of the Idea of Pro
gress and follows in part:
I shall show that this conception 
is a comparatively modern thought, in 
fact the belief that human advance
ment was assured and had its start 
about tho same time as the begin
ning of modorn scionco.
Tho ancients had llttlo or no con
ception of progress. We are led to be
lieve that they had no thought that 
tho growth of knowledge would nec
essarily improve humanity. In tho 
Middle Ages tho minds of tho people 
were not much occupiod with tho 
thought of human improvement; their 
minds wore llxod rather upon a lifo 
after death.
"It was not until tho time of Sir 
Francis Bacon that mon began to porceive that enlightenment and scienco 
would bring with them tho possibility 
of greater happiness. In the eight
eenth century, especially In France, 
the idea of progress became a convic
tion. The philosophers of this period 
felt that progress would be assured 
through the power of the human rea(Contlnued on Page Four.)
INDUSTRIES SMOKER 
AFfER THE HOLIDAYS
An Industries smoker is being 
planned for after the holidays. It is 
to be modeled after the Science Stag 
and is to become an annual affair. 
It will be featured by an elaborate 
entertainment consisting of stunts put 
on by each class, music, sleight of 
hand performances, and fancy danc
ing. According to reports, some rare 
stunts will be presented. Prizes will 
be awarded to the winners.
The date has not been set as yet 
but it will probably be about the mid
dle of January.
CARNEGIE HONORED IN
BEAUX ARTS AWARDS
Captain Stephen H. Sherrill has ar
rived at Carnegie to succeed Captain 
Clyde L. Walker, head of the Signal 
Corps Union of the R. O. T. C., who 
has been transferred to duty in the 
Philippines.
Captain Sherrill is a graduate of the 
United States Military Department in 
the class of 1917. He seryed with the 
U. S. Cavalry overseas during the 
World War and since August, 1919, 
has been detailed with the Signal 
Corps. His last post was at Camp Al
fred Vail in New Jersey.
Students in the Department of In
terior Decoration made an unusual 
record in the last judgment of the 
Beaux Arts Institute in New York 
when each of the five Carnegie Tech 
competitors received a high award, 
Pittsburgh District stiidents won the 
highest honors received by the Car
negie Tech representatives, Renato R, 
Rutili, of Donora, winning second 
medal, and Helen S. Johnson, of 1039 
Murray Hill avenue, receiving a first 
mention.
The competition was natlon-wldo, 
students from the leading colleges 
and universities throughout the coun
try being entered. The problem was 
the design of the interior of a music 
room.
In addition to the honors won by 
the Pittsburgh Btudents, second men
tions were awarded to the following 
Carnegie entrants: Margaret C. Vallowe, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; Wal
ter Dieter, of Erie, Pa.; and William 
Ahearn, of Grove City, Pa.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB TO
HOLD A DANCE DECEMBER 14
The Cosmopolitan Club will hold a 
Christmas entertainment, a Costumo 
Dance, next Friday, Decembor 14, 
1923, in Hoinz House, on tho Pitt 
Campus, at S:15 p. m. A good orch
estra is being arrauged for and a 
nominal feo will ad mit ovoryono to 
tho lloor. All are requestod to turu 
out in their national costumes.
JIMMY ROBERTSON 
ELECTED PRESIDENT
Is Chosen to Head Science 
Senate After Resignation 
of Ryan
Jimmy Robert&ou lias been elected 
President of the Science Senate, 
which office automatically makes him 
a member of the Student Council. He 
takes the place of Pat Ryan, who 
was formerly the President of the 
Scienco Senate, but who has re
signed.
Tlie Student Council has put Rob
ertson in charge of all committees, 
such as the Poverty Day Committee 
and 'Ihe Campus Week Committees. 
In this capacity lie serves more as 
a student supervisor than as a regu
lar worker on the committee, in 
electing Robertscn to this office tho 
Science students bestow on him one 
of the highest honors which is in 
their power to give, and they show 
their great judgment and discretion 
in electing such an able man.
Robertson is a member of tho Kap
pa Sigma fratornity, tho Dragon, 
which is tho Senior honorary frator
nity, and the C Club. Jimmy has 
acquired fame as a football star, a 
fame so great that it cannot possi
bly ho exaggerated, but aside iron 
that, he Is also a letter man In basc'ball and track. Ills ambition la to 
be a four-letter man and with this 
end in view he has reportod for bas
ket ball practice. Coach Lubic was 
amazed at Ills speed. v
Jimmy Is very popular with both 
boys and girls nnd Is hailed by his 
many friends weherovor he goos. In 
fact, If all tlio truth wore known, 
'tlio ideal of quite a few or tho 
Tommy and Polly Techs might rosomblo Jimmy to a high degree. And 
while wo are telling secrots. It 
might ho whispered that Jimmy's pet 
ambition is to be > great political 
boss. Wo wish him great success 
In his prosont cffico and in his fuLuro life.
Plebes Will Hold First 
Dance in Union Friday
Collegiate Imps Will Furnish 
Music for Revelers
Tho Plobo class wIU mmco tliolr so
cial debut at a dance which thoy will 
hold In the Union on noxt Friday ovonIng, Docombor 14. . This hop will bo 
especially for tho Plobos but all up
per classmen are invltod to attond.
Tho hall will bo quaintly docoratod 
with green and white as tho predomi
nating colors. Tho scheme of deco
ration is to bo handled by tho Mag
gie Murphs and tho P. & I. Depart
ment. Tho music will bo furnished 
by tho Collegiate Imps.
As dancing is often very stronuous 
exercise, refreshments will be an im
portant part of the program..
A caterer will bo on hand to sorve 
some dainty but also substantial re
freshments. A novel feature of the 
party will be the programs, which 
have been especially designed for the 
occasion.
The tickets have been put on sale 
at the nominal fee of $1.50 per couple. 
They can be procured from any of the 
following committee: Gerald Bridgis, chairman; Richard Lockwood, 
Leone Belle, Grace Glennon, Virginia 
Walllc.
PREPARATIONS 
CULMINATE IN 
JUNIOR FEAST
Big Banquet of Year Graces 
Hotel Schenley Dining Hull 
Saturday as Juniors Hold 
Get-to-gether
SENIORS ARE INVITED
Next Saturday, Decombor 15, at 
7:00 p. in., Juniors aud Seniors from 
far and wide will gather at tho llotol 
'Schenley to enjoy tho annual got-togothor commonly known as tho Jun
ior Banquet.
Tho menu for the banquot is tho 
finest obtainable. Great caro has 
been taken in its selection and it is 
felt that it will bo onjoyod by 
evoryono. Smokes will bo passed out 
and amid tho puffing, the sagos of 
the school will discuss the topics of 
tho day.
The n.vuslc is to bo suppliod by tho 
Carnogio Collegians, ono of tho best 
musical organizations on tho qamp'us.
Sevoral prominent mon will give 
short talks. These speakers include 
Carl Boliron, Pitts star football play
er; Jimmy Robortson, Carnoglo's 
own; T. N. Griggs, Prosldont of tho 
Student 'Council, and sovoral 1110111- 
bors of tho Faculty. Prof. II. S. 
Howor is to bo tho toastmastor.
Ono of tho big surprises of tho 
banquet will bo tlio feature act. Why 
tContlnuod on Pago Four.)
Arts Night Students 
Elect New Officers
Hold First Night School As
sembly of Year
DANCE WILL FEATURE 
NEWMAN CLUB MEETING
The Newman Club will meet tomor
row night in Cathedral High School. 
A program that promises an inter
esting evening has been announced 
by the committee. A business meet
ing at eight oclock will inaugurate 
the proceedings. The preliminaries 
for initiation of new members will be 
gone through at the meeting. Candi
dates should be present to receive in
structions.
The Wednesday Nev/man Nights 
for Newmanites have beeit in vogue 
since their announcement last Octo
ber and have had a great success. 
Basket ball and dancing have been 
the unfailing sources of entertain
ment. The Nights will he contin
ued all year.
FRESHMAN OF FINE ART8
HOLD DANCE WED., DEC, 12
Giving tho social top another whirl 
tho Freshman class of the College of 
Fine Arts will hold a tea dance In 
the Union on Wednesday, December 
12, 1923, from 4:00 tp G:00, to which 
all Carnegie students are invited.
The committee in charge consists 
of Anita Liggett, W. E. Lynch and T. 
R. Llaa. They have engaged the 
Tartans'* for the occasion. There 
will be the usual assessment of 25 
cents for men only.
Tho first assembly of tuo night stu
dents of tho Collogo of Fino Arts was 
hold oil Tuosday ovonlng, Novombor 
27, 1923, with Miss Kuthlono McGrow 
acting as chairman.
Tho election results wore as fol
lows: Prosldont, G. J. Gregna, music; 
vico prosldont, J. G. Robinson, Applied 
Arts; secretary,, Miss F. K. Schulthols, Appllod Arts; troasuror, J. 
Lloyd, Architecture; student activi
ties, L. It, Dyer, Architecture; fllclbo 
roprosontativo, C. P. Crofford, Drama; 
Tartan and Thistle roprosontativo, E. 
Wm. Eicdahl, Archltoeturo.
Provlous to this olootlon sonators or 
representatives for each Department 
of Fine Arts woro oloctod. Thoy aro 
as follo ASE G. J. Grogus, Music; J. G. 
Robinson, Applied Arts; C. I. Grofford, Drama; R, A. Smith, Architec
ture.
After tho olootlon of olllcors, Mr, J.
D. Mawhlnnoy gave a brief talk on 
tho details of tho Arts Ball. Groat 
Jntorost has boon created among tho 
night students for this event.
The mooting adjourned to tho Arts 
Foyor whore tho Colloglato Imps ontortalnod for tlio remainder of tho 
evening.  special feature of tho 
dance was tho thousand mile lilko, 
Avhlch gave the no\&:omors an oppor
tunity to bocomo acquainted, and 
which croatod a mutual irlondlinoss 
among tho studonts.
Chaperons for tho dance wero Mr. 
and Mrs. Claytor; Mr. and Mrs. Bay
ard; Mr. and Mrs. Readlo.
SEVERAL BIG EVENTS 
FOR BUFFALO STUDENTS
A special car for carnogle studonls 
going toward Erie and Buffalo, Tues
day evening, December 18, by way 
of the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie, Is 
ibelng added to train No. 33, leaving 
the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie depot 
at 5:00 p. m.
It is hoped that all the studonts 
going North by this route will take 
advantage of this opportunity to 
travel with Carnegie men. A good 
chance to make new acqauaintances 
and renew the old ones.
Any additional information may be 
obtained from Mr. Harvey, Pittsburgh 
and Lake Erie passenger agent, who 
will be at the Y. M. iC. A. Club Room, 
Wednesday, December 12.
Several social affairs are taking 
(Continued on Page Two.)
DEPARTMENT OF PRINTING
RECEIVES VALUABLE GIFTS
An article in the last Issue of The 
Tartan reported the Department of 
Printing and Publishingas having 
received gifts and loans of equip
ment of the value of $1,897.
The above statrnent Is erroneous 
as the Prosawork Division alone of 
the Department of Printing has re
ceived gifts and; loans of the value 
of $7,740. This represents equipment 
acquired through gifts and loans 
during tho past six months and is 
distributed as follows:
I Molhlo Vertical Press..............$2,010
1 Miller High Speed Press.... 3,800
I. Cross Continuous Feodor.,.. 1,800 
20 Pounds of Printing Inks... 30
Total .................................................$7,7-10
The gifts and loans received hy 
the entire Department of Printing 
and Publlahlng during the past six 
months would bring the total to a 
much higher figure.
SCALP AND BLADE TO HOLD
DINNER MEETING THURSDAY
Scalp and Blado will hold its 
monthly dinner-mooting Thursday 
evening at the Bird Cage Tea Room, 
East Liberty at six oclock, sharp.
All members aro urged to be pros
ent at tills meeting, as somo very im
portant business will bo discussed, 
concerning activities during Christ
mas vacation.
SHILLING TO MAKE 
ANNUAL DEBUT FRI.
Philosophy, Fiction and Hu
mor Characterize Maggie 
Murph Publication
The best issue of tho Shilling evor 
appearing on this campus will be pur
chasable auywliero around school by 
Thursday or Friday. The material 
has been assembled, polished, boautified, aud sent off to tho printers, in 
whoso hands it now libs.
In the past, tlioro has been the 
criticism that the material put in tho 
Shilling has boon too morbid to bo or 
interest to tho studout body as a 
whole. This issue corrocts all that 
admirably. Tho poetry of Charles Mc
Carthy Is bound to bo liked by ovory
ono; Carol Folghts story, Twisting 
tho Broken Throad is really excel
lent. Tlio twisting Is dono so well 
that ovou tho girls will ho intorostod, 
although It is primarily a story to intorest; mon.
Tho Return, by Knthorlno Myers, 
Is another lino bit of writing, i\nd 
although It has to bo Consldorod a 
tragedy, yot it Is so interesting that 
oven tho Seniors, who oonsldor trage
dies childish, will like it.
Tho hook reports and editorials slip 
a llttlo learning and morals In on you 
unawares with tho result that when 
you lmvo finished reading tho magaln/., you Tool as though you had boon 
to a satisfactory movlo. had from 
thoro procoodod to a very short 
church orvlco, had moved along to a 
musical comodiy, aud had finished up 
at one of Dr. Ersklnos lectures. As 
tills Is all accomplished for twentyfive cents, you can readily soo that It 
is a wonderful, invostmont.
Tho magazine Is for Carnegie mon 
and women, and It should bo enjoyed 
hy those for whom It Is Intended. No 
man or girl on tho campus can afford 
to be without a B'hllllug. It should bo 
Just as necessary as news, or Jokes.
Tho Tartan suppllos tlio news of 
lifo, tho Puppot supplies tho fun. 
VVIml. wo need Is Lifo Itself, and this 
Is rpvoalod In the pages of tho Shill
ing.
CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF 
THE PUPPET OUT SOON
Tho next lssuo of Puppot will be a 
hlg Christmas and Holiday Number 
that .Veil will he proud to take homo 
to tho folks, and Her or Him. II. will 
bo out Just before vacation begins. 
Watch for It. Tho Puppot staff says 
It will bo a "knock out Issue, 
Puppot has a treat for you aftor 
coming back from the Christmas va
cation. Tho editorial staff ot the Pup
pet.has boon granted Interviews with 
tho following trick sketches: Throe 
grass widows, two of the original five 
suffragettes, two collogo widows, ono 
waitress, five hundred of Pittsburgh's 
dobutantes, ono thousand ox-chorus 
girls and four stonographors, Thoso 
will glvo first-hand stories of their 
Icnock-em-dead theories of obtaining 
a husband. Thoy all liavo tliolr cam
paign mapped out for tho ban nor year 
that faces themtliolr year! Thoy 
have promised to toll tliolr tomplote 
program of tactics and have all said 
with gusto, Just lot a more man get 
away from me. So thero you are! 
Puppet wont keep anything to Itself. 
They're going to give you tho whole 
dope about these female cave-men. 
No college girl can be too wise and no 
college boy too wary In tho stronuous 
heart-rending year of nineteen hun
dred nnd .twenty-four. Watch for Pup(Contlnued on Page Four.)
Architects Take Honors 
In Buaux-Arts Judgement
In the Beaux Arts Judgment so 
far this year the architects have 
done better than in previous years 
In a recent judgment Herbert Dowden placed first In a 20-hour sketch. 
This problem is the Warren Prize 
which comes out every year, tho 
winner receives ?60, The problem 
was the plan for the real estate de
velopment of an Island.
The class A problem was A 
Public Library. Tf. B. Tross made 
a first medal. J. N. Franklin and K 
R, fflnkeley mado second modal, A 
Thormln, 13. M, Gearhart, W. '/>. Bane, 
r, .1, Ifohorst, P, F. McLean and. if,
A, Page received first mention,
In the B problem An Entrance
l.o a .Stadium,'' J, W. Tlllotson mmie 
first mention placed and A. M, Hum,
S. Piordellso and P. H. SJoad gol, 
first mention,
The class C project was "A. Well 
Hoad. In this 13. It. Roller and W.
B. Simboll received first mention 
placed, and D. IC. Morrison was 
awarded first mention.
The class "A" men are now on a 
hoL Charrette. The problem Is 
he Interior of v Cabaret, on which 
they hope to shine as before.
CLAN LUNCHEON 
AROUSES SPIRIT 
OF 500 GUESTS
Wally Steffen Announces 
Willingness to Coach 1924 
TeamEd Gilbert Captain 
of Next Year's Eleven
FOOTBALLS AWARDED
Enthusiasm rail high among (lie 
live hundred alumni and studonts as
sembled in tho ball room of tho Wil
liam Ponu Saturday for tho first anual joint luncheon of tho Pittsburgh 
aud Varsity Clans. Tho fall athlotic 
toams were praised by tho speakers 
and cheorod by all, the success of 
tho coaches was acclaimod, Ed Gil
bert was introduced as tho captainelect of tho 1924 eleven, and gold 
footballs, mementos of "Toch 7, Pitt 
were prosoutod to tho gridiron 
lottor mon. Tlio election of Varsity 
Clan officers was hold immodlatol> 
aftor tho luncheon. Many notable 
guests of tlio city and county and of 
alumni associations of other schools 
wore present. The Collegiato Imps 
played and Ohio Newman sang.
Tlio 'speeches or Buddy Ovorond 
and Wally Steffen provoked lroquent 
spirited demonstrations. ltobortaou 
and Gilbert received tremendous ova
tions whon called) upon, and allu
sions to tlio players and gnmos of 
tlio past season or to tho prospects 
for noxt yoar wero at all tlmos tho 
occasion of enthusiastic outbursts. 
Guy Halforty and Howdy Dykeman 
and tliolr harriers came In for a 
sharo of tho praise, and the Plobos 
woro given the distinction of having 
frightened Harvard out of a game 
with Carnogio In 1921 by tho exhibi
tion which thoy put on boforo a 
Harvard) roprosontativo In tholr tus
sle with the Pitt Freshmen.
Wally Stoffen announced his will
ingness (o devote his Soptombor va
cation and his Saturdays next yoar 
to the football toam. Mo has advlsod tho Athlotio 'Council to put a 
now plan Into effect, and he wants 
(Continued on Pago Throe)
Kris Kingle Appears 
On Campus Sat. live
Guild Raises Money for Set
tlement House in Soho
Tho Ollllrt Carnival last Baturniiy 
night wan termed a thoroughly aucdonoftil affair. All who came, and 
both tho Union and Langley Lab wero 
crowded, onjoyod every moment. The 
Colloglato imps, and likewise tho Blue 
Rldgo Horonudors, woro Irresistible In 
tholr separate appeals. Various stunts 
offered a pleasant diversion between 
dances. On tho oxlt of tho Woodon 
Soldiers, tho applause threatened to 
dislodge tho bourn, but Santa Claus 
fortunately was able to divert the 
mobs attention.
Plobo girls, dressed to represent 
polnsottas, woro attractive vendors 
of exceptionally digestible food, most 
of which was contributed by tho dif
ferent departments of M. M C. C.
Miss Dorothy Wilson Is to bo com
mended for the oxcollonco of hor work 
on tho costumes. Thanlcs aro due to 
tho various eommittoos whoso untir
ing work during tho last fow wooks 
made possible tho tromondous MBLLYTM 
that this years carnival proved to be.
The exact amount of the receipta 
has not yet been ascertained, but the 
increase In funds Is sufficiently en
couraging to justify the Guilds going 
ahead with tholr plans for tho Settle
ment I-Iouso.
GRAPHICA CARD SALE 
TO END TOMORROW
Tomorrow is tho last day of the 
Graphlca Christmas Card campaign, 
and final orders will be taken at tills 
time. All orders will be ready for 
delivery on December 18.
Several hundred orders are expect
ed today and tomorrow from students 
who have been putting off tholr or
ders. To make tho campaign a com
plete success every member of the 
club voted aL a meeting last Thurs
day to sell ten dozen cards a day un
til the end of the campaign. At that 
time tho total sales amounted to one 
thousand dozen cards, and It is hoped 
that this amount will be doubled whon 
the count Is mado tomorrow evening.
Cards which woro ordered In the 
early part of the campaign are now 
ready for delivery to the customers.
(Continued on Page Four.)
MI88 E8TELLE DONNELL
WILL SPEAK AT Y. W. C. A.
Miss Estelle Bonnoll, of the social 
work department of the Margaret 
Morrison Collogo, will, spoak at tho 
Y. W. C, A. meeting tomorrow at 
12:30 in tho Recreation Hall. Lunch 
will bo served as usual. Miss Bonnell 
will talk about "Tho Settlement and 
Martha Zimmerman, President of the 
Guild, will glvo tho results of the 
Guild Carnival and toil about the plans 
for ostabliHhln' a nettlement house 
in the Soho District.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1923
2& CwgielTartan
Published every week hy undergraduates of the Carnogio Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In tho PostoIIlce of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.___________
tl. P. SIMPSON ............................................................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schenley 9143W. CUNNINGHAM .......................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone Schenley 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD.............................................................................. Managing Editor
Telephone Schonley 9189
FRED C. SMITH............ .......... .................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS...................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ..........................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone Schonley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES .................................................................................. Associate Ed tor
H II WILSON ................................................................................ Associate Editor
OD OR..R.C DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD .YAU Editor
Telephone Schonley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ...,..................................................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schonley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS ................................................................................................. NewH Editor
Telephone Schonley 9211
E. C. FRAZIER .............................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephono Schonley 9143
A. JO. .........................................................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLBATH ................................................................................................ Photographer
W. K. JIOFFREY ......................................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, ............................................................................................................. Art Editor
DON GARDNER .............................................................................................. Special Writer
T J. DEMPSEY .................................................................................. Circulation Manager
TI BROUDY ........................................................................ Assistant Business Manager
W. M. GIBSON.. . ..................................................'............Assistant Business Manager
 EDITORIAL ASSISTA NTS
Estollo Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, L. H. Harris, K. Fulmer, Wilma
Stlnor, Carol Fofght, J. M. Early, W. F. Kaufman, F. L. Wagner, N. C. Weser,
V. 13. Smith, C. A. Lundriulst, D. M. Davidson, E. E. Kearns, F. M. McClelland,
M. W. Gay, Rosemary MCambridge, F. L. Ford. ______________________________
 ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Helen Corrao, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rassbach.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, E. L. 
Reeves, J. II. Seibert, I. E. Krldler, A. Barbrow, A. Perroton, R. G. Kennedy.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up._______________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld If desired. All news items must be in the student 
postolllce before 4:30 Thursday. ________________________________________________
Tartan OlIIcoRoom o-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20._________________________________________________________
STUDENT BODY OPINIONS
What'is a student body? What are its powers? What are its 
functions? To what extent should its opinions be respected? What 
are its duties? Is it passive or is it a seething pot oil activity?
These questions arc such that they never will be answered to the 
complete satisfaction of everyone, so great is the divergence of opin
ions of different people. To all questions there aro at least two sides. 
Again it can easily be said that there are two sides onlythe right 
and tho wrong, and ofliimes there is no clearly defined line between 
them. ...We may say what a student body should be, but it is only our 
opinion. Wo could define its power, but after all, somebody will 
surely give it additional powers and maybe take away some that we 
gave it. We may define its functions, but somebody else comes along 
and says were entirely 1 did', and tho funny part of it all is that wc 
probably arc.
But just the same, wo are going to take a chance. It is our 
opinion that a student body is a seething pot of activity, with ideas 
and determinations, and is always interested in seeing them function. 
It should bo more than a group of students. It should have an in
terest in all activities pertaining to tho college. It should have this 
intorost to such an extent that it is willing and desirous of taking 
part. It should have an intimate knowledge of all tilings pertaining 
to itself.
The very fact that there is a divergence of opinions on existing 
conditions should indicate that all is not well, anti when the student 
body with its heartfelt interest for tho good of Carnogio over upper
most, finds fault, surely thero is reason for deliberation and investi
gation.
Thoro aro mon in authority hero who say many studonts cannot 
advance sensiblo ideas on important matters, and for this reason 
many student disturbances aro ignored, and when important matters 
como up for action tho docision is loft to a chosen few who havo 
proven their ability.
Truebut why? Tho idea will bo advanced that tho students 
aro .just naturally ignorant and disinterested. Thoso students'admit 
that thoy aro somewhat ignorant, but never, never will thoy admit 
that thoy lack intorost. .And why, might it bo aslcod, aro thoy ignor
ant? Tho answer is in tho old, old contention that doors aro too 
often kept closed.
hast year certain articles in this paper mado a plea for an open 
door policy. As a result today many doors which; mod to be closed 
are open. But thero remain still a few closed, doors and it is bocuuso 
ol! thoso doors which aro closed today that certain discontent has 
arisen. In other words, by keoping these doors shut, tho student 
body does not know, and it (tho student body) is therefore proving 
to bo restless,
Along this matter there has come a question of policy within the 
ranks ol! tho Carnegie Tartan. Shall we express student opinions? 
Wo have arrived at the conclusion that we shallprovided it is for 
the good of Carnegie. And where will our line be drawn in this 
matter? What is for tho good ol! Carnegie and what is not? Two 
weeks ago an editorial came out that was not, but at the time it ap
peared perfectly innocent. After the article was printed it became 
evident that it was undesirable publicity. UNDESIRABLE PUB
LICITYtherein lies the answer! If tho printing of opinions lead to 
undesirable publicity, they should not be printed; If not, they should be printed.
Along this matter, let us consider the circulation of the Carnegie 
Tartan. It travels to every state in the union. It goes to practically 
every important college in the country. It usually finds its way into 
tho hands of numerous newspapers of many large cities. And therein 
lies tlie answer. We cannot let it be thought that conditions at Car
negie are considered bad, when nine times out of ten, these beliefs are 
a product of an uninformed mind, which has not received sufficient 
nutritionand nutrition in this case is information.
And so, as in the past, it continues to be the policy of this paper 
to get information from behind closed doorsy and we believe, that 
through constant effort, we are nearing a victory.
But, the Carnegie Tartan welcomes and even goes so far as to 
ask for communications stating student opinions.
HOW THE PLEBE GRIDDERS STOOD
It Is of interest to know the scholastic standing of the members of the 
Froshman football squad. The grades listed below are those of the men from 
Sclonce and Industries:
Name First Report Mid-Semester Difference
Stroud ...................................................................................2Hr> 236- -- 1
Harmon ................................................................................168 201 --88
Vogt .......................................................................................195 20(5 --11
Baum ..........................................................:......................178 19!) --15
Cooper ..........................................................................182 188 -- .1
Hughes ..................................................................................156 146 irY
Levinson, G. M..................................................................196 217 4-21
Mc.Grnll ................................................................................187 146 -- 7
Irvine ....................................................................................208 203
Burgevt ................................................................................148 180
Dodge ....................................................................................148 156
Forbes ...................................................................................146 205
Mnnby ..................................................................................142 lit
Levinson, L. I-I....................................................................140 146
Van Vochton .....................................................................212 200
II, Is encouraging to note tho high scholastic standing of tho yeai-Uugs, 
and that most of them increased tholr .total P. Q.s at mid-semester. It. might 
ho explained that Mnnby was 111 for a time, accounting largely for the fall in his standing.
18 
+15 +50 
81 
-I6 12
SEVERAL BIG EVENTS
FOR BUFFALO STUDENTS
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
place in Buffalo during the Christ
mas vacation. Perhaps the most 
prominent of these is the Inter
collegiate ball. Locally known as 
the College ball, it is one of the an
nual events in Buffalo society. This
year it will bo held Christmas night 
in the no,w Hotel Statlor, Buffalo, N. 
Y. It is given under tho auspices 
of Scalp and Blade, tho national Bur
lalo. honorary fraternity.
There will also be an extraordin
ary entertainment given to all Car
negie men in Buffalo over the Christ
mas vacation by the Buffalo Clan. 
Further particulars will be found un
der tlie Clan News.
.j. * .j. *. * 
IN MEMORIAM
Wo wish to extend our most *
 sincere sympathies to the beleaved family of "Jimmy Craig 
 Wilson of Belleileld Christian *
 Endeavor.
With tho passing of "Jimmy," 
 the studonts of Pitt and Car*
 neglo Tech loso a helping and 
 devoted friend. Ho was a good 
 leader, a loyal worker for *
 Christ, and a kind and thoughtful friend.
Arts Ball Committee 
Planning Decorations
Jan Garbers Best Orchestra 
to Play at Ball, Feb. 8
The various committees tor tho 
Art Ball havo been making plans, 
sketchos, and designs for the decora
tions and costumes. The period of 
tho ball Is Chlneso of tho time of 
Morco-Polo, about 1200 A. D. All dec
orations will therefore bo Chinese. 
"Tlio Feast of the Lanterns" is tho 
title of tho ball and lanterns will nec
essarily form the major portion of the 
decorations.
Tho costumes aro to be strictly old 
Oriental and Mandarin coats, refer
ences to laundries, etc., will be barred.
Tho music committee has secured 
Jan Garber with his first string Garber-DavIs Orchestra for both the ball 
and tho post-ball. The ball will be 
held on Friday, February 8, and the 
post ball on Saturday. The GarberDavls Orchestra is one of tho finest 
In tho country. They have played for 
both Victor and Columbia Records. 
Garber is going to bring here the 
same orchestra that played for those 
companies.
R. 0. T. C. MEN STRIVE 
TO BECOME MARKSMEN
The intra-mural matcnes or the R. 
O. T. C. rifle team are now in pro
gross, nnd the competition Is extreme
ly keen. Blewltt, I-Iatheway, Slater, 
Statt, and Wilson have the highest 
scores, TY far, but a number of otlierB 
aro showing considerable improve
ment. Lively rivalry for places on 
the team is promised.
A number of matches, including the 
University of Illinois, University of 
Minnesota, and tho Third Army Corps 
Area Championship aro scheduled, 
and several other important matches 
aro being arranged. Tho Penn State 
rifle team holds tho Third Army 
CorpB Area Championship cup, at 
prosont, but tho Carnegie men intend 
to fight hard to win It. The rifle team 
is under tho direction of Lieut. I-Iomonway.
Colonel Day Talks With 
London Through KDKA
A singular honor was conforrod up
on Colonol Frank Parker Day, Doan of 
Englnoorlhg and Industries Froshman, 
whon ho was choson as ono of. two 
mon from Pittsburgh to talk over 
KDKA radio, with London, England.
Col. Day and Acting Consul Hyde 
woro tho two men clionon to spoalc 
for Pittsburgh, in tho trans-A^lanClc 
conversation. It. took ono Hlxt.y-flft.il 
of a Second to get tho first call to Lon
don, nnd with tholr nnswor, Col. Day 
startl'd his talk on "Radio as an In
strument of Poaco.
Tho experiment tried and proven 
on Saturday night was the first twoway tost over attomptod botwoen Eng
land and Amorlca.
SOPHS-PLEBES TAKE PART
IN MERRY COMBAT
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
dor to cupture tlio lower classmen. 
Tho first ones through got a warm 
reception.
Tho Freshmen who had boen cap
tured woro confined in the basements 
of the dorms, sans trousers and with 
wrists bound. One Plebe provided a 
sensation by escaping and running 
ovor the campus in his underdressed 
condition. Tho Sophomores on guard 
had a tough time keeping their pris
oners in subjection, as they were 
continually) freeing themselves from 
their bonds and organizing rebellions. 
By four oclock aibout two hundred 
Plebes had been incarcerated. At that 
time a student council member dash
ed upon the scene to request that 
the prisoners be released. The Soph
omores agreed, the trousers were re
turned, and nil the Freshmen were 
given (their liberty, with the excep
tion of their officers. No one knew 
where they were.
But almost immediately trouble 
broke out anew. The Sophomores 
tried to compel the Plebes to remove 
a 27 from one of the girls' dorms. 
One Soph threatened to use a. paddle. 
A Freshman grabbed it. Other Soph
omores tried to take it from him. 
More Plebes came to his assistance. 
And for half an hour a heaving mob 
of ovor a hundred tore up the sod 
hoaldo tho Field ITouso in an eifoit. 
to got that, paddle.
Suddenly Sophomore Presidents 
O'Connor and Goodwin appeared on 
tho scene. They had been away for 
tho benefit of tholr health for a eou 
pie of days. For a, short time they 
looked oil at tlvo tussle without being 
molested. Then the Plobos noticed 
them and started down Woodlnwn 
avenue on tho run, the presidents 
with a lead of tvbouit twelve* yards. 
OConnor escaped, but Goodwin way1 
caught along Forbes street, and an
other half hours scrimmage ensued, 
with Goodwin this time taking tho 
place of the paddle. Finally the 
Sophomores worked the ruso of 
"Lets go home; its all over, and 
Mike escaped in a Ford.
The Plebe presidents were released 
that night, but not until they had 
been subjected to the ignominy of 
having their picture taken with the 
bracelets on.
DRAMATS PRESENT 
LEAGUE OF YOUTH
Play by Ibsen Will be the 
First Comedy Given This 
Season
Tho Dramats will maKe their third 
bow of tho season next week in 
Ibsen's comedy drama, tho "League 
of Youth." A dress rehearsal was 
held Monday and performances will 
begin on WedneHday.
It will bo the largest and most am
bitious production attempted so far 
this year and will probably appear 
attractive to many in that it borders 
upon tho farcical and does not pos
sess that sad ending which has char
acterized tho previous plays of tho 
year.
Like most of Ibsens, "Tbe League 
of Youth" Is a problem play dealing 
primarily with tbe political conditions 
of tho seventies. The plot is very in
tricate and displays somo very clever 
technique. The Drama Department 
is bonding all its efforts upon tha 
successful production of this work 
and under the skillful guidance of 
Professor Stevens it is progressing 
rapidly and promises to be ono of 
tho most effective of tho season.
Tho story deals with Stensgord, 
an ambitious young Norwegian, who 
leaves his native city, Christiana, 
aud goes to tho provinces to aeek 
h/is fortune. To further his political 
aspirations, ho organizes a league, 
of youths, designed to abolish tbe 
corrupt and aristocratic system of 
government. Since this plan does 
not fiourish quite as he had expected 
he becomes a partisan of the aristo
crats for tho sake of "getting on.1 
The play deals with his adventures 
after this move and is brilliant ex
ample of Ibsens ability .to fascinate 
an expectant audience.
The cast, which is extensive, in
cludes besides many) others:
Stensgord ...........Philip Rhodes Thorn
Heine ............................................................
..Herbert Polesie and Jack Beistel 
Chamberlain Bratsberg...........................
............................................Paul McGrath
Monsen................................Ben Welnhlatt
Bastion Monsen------Ellsworth Perrin
Lundestad.........................Verner Halden
Selma Bratsberg------Margaret Ripley
Tliora Bratsberg ......................................
................................Elizabeth Sov/ersby
Erick Bratsberg.............Mathew Smith
Mme. Bmnhold...........................................
Mabel Elcliler and Harriet Walker
Aslaksen............................Arvid Crandall
Doctor FI eld bo.............Norman Hoefier
Nkjht School Plays.
Four offe-act plays will also be 
presented by the night students of 
tho department on Thursday and Fri
day of this week. The program in
cludes "The Intruder by Maurice 
Maeterlink. "Op'-O-Me-Thumb by 
Frederick Fenn, "Clan Flarey by 
Daniel Corkory, and "Tho Dear De 
parted by Stanley I-Ioughton. Tbo 
work is being directed by Che?tov 
Wallace, Hazel Bock andi Mary 
Brown. The night students do not 
often havo an opportunity to display 
their skill and these performances 
should prove weld worth attending.
Tho following comment was re
ceived oil tho night school plays given 
last week:
"Tho worst thing one can say of the 
Night School plays may as well bo 
said at once: Thoy distinctly suffer
by comparison with tho plays of tho 
day school studonts. Well, what else 
could wo oxpoct, consldorliifr the 
amount of time the two sots of stu
dents can dovoto to tholr productions 
and t.o tho preliminary training.
"Tho Intruder was a hard play to 
got across. Maeterlinck ought to be 
loft to finished 'professionals, except 
that professionals will not do him of
ten enough. This production had two 
quite good characters, Verner Wasson 
as tho Grandfather, and Margaret 
Myers as.tlio first daughter. Tho oth
ers rather broke tho spell of Maeter
linck with tliolr American voices.
" Op-o-me-Thunib. was easier. Mar
garet McCarthy was distinctly the star 
of the piece, but tbo ensemble was 
good.
Clan Falvey was a poignant and 
subtle play of Irish idealism. It takes 
for granted some knowledge of Irish 
literary values; but with a picked 
audience such as the School of Drama 
draws, we ought to be able to take 
something for granted. To lovers of 
the Irish drama as the Abbey Thea
ter has interpreted it, this play is pure 
joy. Its lyric speeches stay with us 
like refrains of old songs. The com
bination of realism and a wistful at
mosphere of dreams and lost causes 
is something to which no other na
tion can attain. It is high praise for 
the Night School that they could give 
such a play adequately. Only the 
slight tendency to indistinctness of 
speech (chiefly in the otherwise well 
acted part of Hugh) left one wishing 
that the Night School had as much 
time to give to training as the Day 
School.
The last play, "The Dear Departed 
was slighter than the others. Prob
ably it was chosen with some idea 
that it might be easier. But after all, 
a mans,reach should exceed his 
grasp is a sound principle to hold 
to In choosing plays.-- Certainly the 
actors'did no better in this feebler 
play than they did in Clan Falvey 
and The Intruder. and tbe impres
sion on tho audience was not so 
good.
Still, taking tho bill as a whole, wo 
congratulate tho Night School stu
dents on tholr work, and flie School 
of Drama on Its Night 'School stu
donts.
CLUB MEETINGS
COMMERCIAL CLUB
The rejuvenated Commercial Club 
will start tho year with a smoker to 
be held this evening. A smoker Is 
a smoker, but a Commercial Club 
smokerah, that is the acme!
It is not onlythe privilege but tbe 
duty of every Commercial Engineer 
student on the campus to attend this 
smokerand this includes those af
filiated \tfith the Commercial Engi
neering1 Department. The gathering 
Is in charge of tho following men: 
A. P. Scheinman, chairman; H. N. 
Smith and L. H. Harris.
Part of the time will be allotted 
to a short business meeting during 
which a number of things are to bo 
taken up, chief among which is the 
design of the new emblem. Prelim
inary designs show promise of some
thing new in tho form of a key 
which those at ithe smoker will 
see it.
C. M. E. S.
The members of the Carnegie Me
chanical Engineering Society, at its 
meeting last Tuesday, had the pleas
ure of hearing Mr. L. J. Lamberger, 
of the Duquesne Light Company, give 
a talk on the "Factors Which Deter
mine the Cost of Central Station 
Power.
Mr. Lambergers subject was new 
to the majority of those who heard 
him speak, and the result was that an 
interesting discussion ensued after 
the talk. There was a large attend
ance at the meeting. Among those 
present were several night school stu
dents. It is hoped that the night 
school men will continue to show an 
interest in the C. M. E. S.
Just before the close of the meet
ing, S. Hahn, V. Senlcus, and A. Grod
ner were elected as new members in 
the organization. In regard to the 
C. M. E. S. recognition pins, it was 
stated that those desiring them may 
now place their orders with August 
Stigler, junior mechanical.
S. I. E.
NON-DEGREE MEN WILL 
HOLD SMOKER THURS.
On December 3, 1923, the annual 
meeting of the Non-Degree Associa
tion was held for the purpose of elect
ing officers for the coming year. The 
election results were as follows: F. K. 
McKlveen, president; D. Eichelberger, 
vice president; F. Duvicari, secretary; 
Wm. Gooby, treasurer.
With the co-operation of the entire 
organization, together with the offi
cial representatives great things can 
be accomplished in this organization 
in the way of activities and social 
functions. The first social meeting 
will be a smoker held in the Union, 
on the evening of December 13.
At this smoker plans and prepa
rations will be made for the social 
calendar of the coming year. It is 
hoped by the committee in charge 
that an unusual number will be pres
ent. Added special attractions will 
feature the entertainment, and plenty 
of eats and Bmokes will be on hand.
Theyre off! cried the old lady, as 
she viewed the inmates of the insane 
asylum.
Kentucky Kernel.
The first meeting of the Society of 
Industrial Engineers, was held in the 
dining room of the M. M. C. C. on 
Wednesday evening, December 5. A 
delicious supper was served, after 
which the speaker of the evening was 
introduced.
Mr. Francis Feelian, a representa
tive of labor gave a very instructive 
talk on present labor problems and 
the possible solution of them. He 
outlined several systems which are 
now in use and which are giving sat
isfactory results.
Because of his intimate knowledge 
of both sides of the labor problem and 
his wide experience in this field, Mr. 
Feelian is a very capable man to deal 
with this subject. He has been a fac
tor in settling many labor disputes 
both National and local. At present 
he is connected with the Department 
of Labor and Industry in Pennsyl
vania.
The keynoto in Mr. Feehans talk 
was "Fairness of Employer to Em
ploye. Tills, be states, is the ulti
mate and only lasting solution to our 
labor problems.
Tho S. I. E. plans to have speakers 
representing capital and neutral par
ties in Industry on their winters pro 
gram. Professor Leeds announced 
that a club room has been obtainod 
for S. I. E. men.
A. I. E. E.
HER ADVICE
Ned: Dnrling say tho words tliat
will make me tho happiest man in the 
world.
Edna: Shall I really?
Ned: Oh, if you only would.
Edna: Well, then stay single.
She (after a tiresome evening) 
Well, good night. Be good!
He (brightly)always am.
Yes, Im afraid you are.
Red and Black.
The monthly meeting of the A. I.
E. E. was held last Wednesday even
ing in room eleven Machinery Hall. 
The organization was fortunate in 
having Mr. A. N. Cartwright, trails 
mission superintendent of the West 
Penn Power Company, as its speaker. 
He dolivored a very comprehensive 
talk on' the design and selection of 
materials for transmission lines, 
touching upon tbe various unforeseen 
.difilcultles and methods of overcom
ing them.
As Illustrations of some of these dif
ficulties and methods of overcoming 
them, he covered the complete con
struction of two of the West Penn 
Power Companys most recent high 
tension lines from preliminary survey 
to completion.
Following Mr. Cartwrights talk, 
there was a lively discussion, during 
which he cleared up many points 
about which the members were in 
doubt. Refreshments followed the ad
journment.
TEKNON CLUB
Miss Parret and Mr. Rich, of the 
European Student Relief Drive, were 
visitors and speakers at Teknon Club 
last week. They gave a brief outline 
of the proposed campaign to be 
launched here later in the winter. At 
the same meeting were representa
tives of Pitt and P. C. W., who were 
very enthusiastic over the coming 
campaign in their schools.
It was very interesting to hear first 
hand information of conditions in 
European schools and colleges. Just 
at present this relief committee is 
planning reconstruction work which 
will enable the students to help them
selves in thenear future.
A committee was appointed for Car
negie Tech, with Chas. James as 
chairman.
The meeting this Thursday' will be 
the last before Christmas and it is 
hoped that all members will sign up 
and be present.
VACUUM HEATING PUMP
IS GIVEN TO PIPE SHOP
A valuablo addition to the equip
ment In tho Department of Heating 
and Ventilation was received last 
week when a Jennings Hytor Vacuum 
Heating Pump was presented by the 
Nash Engineering Company of South 
Norwalk, Conn.
The apparatus, which was given 
outright by the Nash Company, is to 
be used for testing pumps. Accord
ing to S. E. Dibble, head of the de
partment, tlie gift is one of the most 
important ever received because of 
its utility and its comparatively high 
value.
Take it home to 
the kids.
Have a packet in 
fyour pocket for an 
ever-ready treat.
A delicious confec
tion and an aid to 
the teeth, appeiito, 
digestion.
A POEM
A Freshman was wrecked on a canni
bal coast,
Where a cannibal king held sway. 
And they served up that Freshie on 
slices of toast,
On the eve of the very next day.
But the vengeance of Heaven fol
lowed swift on the act,
For, ere the next moon was Been,
By cholera morbus the tribe was at
tacked,
For that Freshie was terribly green*
Certainly!Every student needs a 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
C. A. HEIMERTS
The Students' Store 
and
The Better Shop for 
MEN
Your first thought Classy Hats, 
Caps and Haberdashery at Mod
erate Prices.
At
HEIMERTS
3614 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Next to Post Office.
Established 1882.
To those oJfrCen 
who demand distinction and conservative 
individuality in their clothes, Famous 
DUNSHIRE Clothing makes an instant 
appeal.
In the soft front of the coat, the narrow lapels 
and the straight sleevesin the Broad shoul
ders and loosely draped back; in the high cut 
vest and full, wide trousers; and in the flat, 
English collarin all these details lies the 
secrct of the smartness of DUNSHIRE 
Clothed.
Through their very simplicity, DUNSHIRE Clothes 
achieve that air of quiet smartness demanded by the well groomed man.
c/Ilit)ays noticedbut never noticeable!
Sole Distributor in Pittsburgh and Vicinity.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and Seventh Avenue
What 10 words best 
describe the new cap?
As you see, the Williams Shaving Cream 
Cap is hinged on and cant get lost. Tell 
us how it helps you. Do you find it a timesaver? Do you, because of it, find 
greater satisfaction in quick - working 
Williams lather, so gently beneficial to your skin? Read 
our offer; then write us a winning slogan.
Our prize offer
For the best sentence often words or less on tlio vnlifc of the Williams Hinged Cnp. we offer the following prims: 1st prize $100: 2nd price$50; two 3rd prises, S25 each; two 4th prizes,SI0 ench; si 5th prizes, S5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize
will be nwnrded to each. Contest doses at midnight, March 14th, 1924. Winners will be utinounced as soon thereafter as possible. You may submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting name, address, college and class at top of each sheet.Address letters to Contest Editor, 
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, t923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
DRESS SUITS TO RENT 
TUXKAY
The tuxedo for the College Man'
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30-5:30
6002 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smlthfield 0341
mmmL fai
w If Music Box l|
6021 PENN AVENUE EAST LIBERTY 
The Gathering of the Clan at The Mualc Box ifl 
rapidly becoming a custom, Get the Habit.
Cover charge 50c after 0 oclock.
Saturday cover charge $1.00.
BASKETBALL AGAIN 
ON SPORT SCHEDULE
The Complete Project 
for the Standard 
Oil Building 
New York City
CARRtRE
and
HASTINGS
Architects
The Neiv Architecture
A DISTINCTLY new tendency is apparent in architectural 
thought and design today. Architects are designing in 
masses  the great silhouette, the profile of the building has 
become of far greater importance than its detail.
There is a new vigor and ruggedness even in buildings which arc conven
tionally classic in their detail. Masses mount upward, supporting the tower,, 
accentuating its height. The new architecture is tending toward great struc
tures rather than multiplicity of detail.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill and organization, 
will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture of the future.
IS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities o the World
Many Football Stars Turn to 
Floor GamePlebes Are 
Called Out
The Carnegie Tecli basket tossers 
are rounding into shape for the first 
game which is to be played a few 
days after Christmas recess. A stiff 
practice during the next few weeks 
will put the floormen in condition be
fore the vacation days, and Coacli Lublc is expecting to have short prac
tices during the vacation to keep the 
men in good shape.
Many of the football men are now 
out on the floor and showing up well. 
Among the best is Jimmy Robertson, 
who is keeping up his prestige as an 
athlete on the basket ball floor as he 
has done in all the other sports. Mefort and Goodwin are also doing fine 
floor. Mohrman has reported for 
practice, and with Captain Jimmy An
derson yet to come, prospects for a 
good team are exceptionally bright.
It is urged that more candidates re
port at the next practice, because 
Coach Lubic is intending to carry a 
large squad tliis year and chances to 
earn a letter are good. There are 
many men on the campus who should 
come out and try at least to malco 
the squad, because it is only by this 
kind of spirit that the students will 
build up Carnegie Tech into a biggor 
and better school.
Practice was called for the Plebes
MSMSMSMSMcUSMS/SMMS/cMMiiUclMSJiD 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CHAIG
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.........................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA
on last Thursday afternoon, and about 
fifty reported, but the practice was 
postponed until Monday on account 
of Coach Irwins absence. The Fresh
man schedule will be published in an 
early issue of the Tartan.
CLAN LUNCHEON AROUSES
SPIRIT OF 500 GUESTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
to do all ho can to help it along. 
At the suggestion of Buddy OvorED GILBERT
end a motion was passed to raise a 
fund among ithe alumni and studonts
for a, tablet to the memory of Frank 
H. Ilaaren to bo placed In the now 
gymnasium. The same motion had 
alrendy been adopted by tho Youngs
town Clan at - its meeting Monday 
night.
Mr. M. It. Walton, President of the 
Pittsburgh Clan, was toastmaster. 1-Ie 
read telegrams from President ICoepu 
pel of tho Carnegie Corporation, 
iQhairman Porter of the Carnogio 
Tech School Boaid, and former Presi
dent Iiammerschlag of Carnegie, in 
which they expressed regrot at their 
inability to bo present and extended 
congratulations ito tho football team.
Dr. Church of tho Carnogio Corpor 
ation, told of tho gift of property 
worth ?125,000, to tho school from 
Andrew Mellon, Secretary oL tho 
Treasury and reminded thoso pros
ent oC tho offer oL the corporation to 
triple every donation am dor tho four 
million mark mado to Carnogio with
in twenty-Ilvo years. Ho expressed 
his own confidence that tho corpora
tion would ha.vo to givo its eight 
million long bolore |he Iwonly-fivo 
years aro up.
Prosldont Baker in an unacademic 
speoch voiced tho satisfaction which 
tho faculty fool In tho work of th 
team. Colonel Joo Thompson, ICoach 
of Carnogio loams In tho goodi old 
days, gave tho boys tho credit of 
Ing tho iron of roal football playeru 
in their blood.
II. G. Nlchol, Prosldont of tho Var 
slty Clan, announced tho intention of 
tho Clan to hocomo bottor acquainted 
with tho moil on Carnogio teams in 
order to assist them and keep alivo 
the spirit of aggressiveness which a 
winning combination must have. John 
P. Laboon, Prosldont of the Athletic 
Council, spoke of tho nood of moro 
spneo at Camoglo for tho practice oi; 
Intnwnural sports. Ho put the prob
lem up to thoso good provldors, the 
trustees.
Tho mon to whom gold footballs 
woro prosontod aro: Robertson,
Krlstoff, Zolt, Comfort, Taylor, Gil 
ibort, Yoder, Mabel, Bastlnn, J. And or 
son, Brumbaugh, Newman, Moforl, P. 
Andorson, Cass, Ryan, Irwin, Minihall, Pittman, Goocuvm and Scholl.
Tho following aro tho result of 
tho Varsity Clan election:
Prosldont......................................T. 13. Orr
Vice Prosldont... ,W. Y. Cocken, Jr
Secretary....................Clarence Ovorond
Treasurer..................................A. C. Irwin
Representative to Athletic Council
for two years................R. B. Nation
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
CAPTAIN GILBERT
Like a shy kid, lie arose at his place at the table and tried to address 
the multitude who were noisely applauding his election to tho greatest honor 
a team can bestow on one of its group. Maybe he messed the speech up, 
but he left the impression in the minds of all who saw him that he is a 
man who will lead his men on to the greatest of which they are capable.
Eddie seldom got his name in the big headlines of newspaper accounts 
of the games, but he was in the line fighting all the time, and the men who 
fought with him. knew whom they were choosing Saturday when they selected 
him to be their pilot for the coming campaign. Quiet, unassuming, but a 
steady man of courage, he has won the respect and admiration of the entire 
student body.
Congratulations, Ed, and may success attend you in your leadership!
ABOUT THE COACHING SITUATION
Judge Steffen, in his speech Saturday, declared that he would be willing 
to come back to us next fall in the same capacity as this year, that of ad
visory coach; and further that he would be willing to continue his relations 
with us on that basis until a satisfactory coach could be obtained to take 
over the reins of leadership on a full-time basis.
Now, while few people in touch with the athletic situation at Carnegie 
favor the advisory system as practiced the past season for a permanent 
arrangement, its continuance has this advantage. It will enable the Athletic 
Council to take its time in careful consideration as to who should succeed 
Steffen as Skibo mentor. A new coach of the required calibre will be se
cured if possible by next season, but if none such is available, we can get 
along very well indeed under the present system for another year, or until 
a satisfactory coach can be secured. That would he much better than hur
riedly signing up one'who would not be of the desired type.
Wally is as sorry to leave us as we are to see him go, but he Is anxious 
to have a definite coaching policy Instituted at Carnegie, a policy which will 
include a high-grade resident coach.
BOOM BASKET BALL
Have you noticed how the basket ball schedule in arranged to link, up 
with the opening date for the new gymnasium? Take a look at the cagers' 
program and note the almost total absence of. home games before the date 
set for tho opening of the main floor of the gym; and the fact that the TMII; 
game is slated for the first battle in said gym; and also the great numbor of 
home games toward the latter part of the season.
The current season should he a banner one for basket ball. Marty good 
players have reported for practice, and Coach Lubic Is highly pleased with 
the showing thus far, his chief worry being tho effects of the stringent study 
requirements.
It is now up to tis to see that no available material of varsity calibre Is 
J permitted to hide its light under a bushel. The tendency has sometimes 
j been for fraternities or other groups to discourage one of their number from 
! going out for the varsity in order that he might bring more glory to their 
| particular group in Intra-Mural competition.
Put Carnegie first! Dont play fraternity or dormitory basket ball when 
! you might be on the varsity, if only as a substitute. When fraternity and 1 dormitory competition is placed above that of the college, then it is that 
I the former becomes an evil, and ceases to be sportsmanlike in character. 
(RememberCarnegie Tech above all!
MAGGIE MURPHS HOLD
INITIAL CAGE PRACTICE
Tho first girls basket) ball practice 
was hold yesterday under tho direc
tion of Miss Russell.
As thore will bo no varsity toam 
this year, special stress is being laid 
on class teams. Representatives of 
all four classes roported for tho first 
practico.
Practice will be resumed today at 
1:30, and continuo each day this wook. 
All thoso desiring to play aro urged 
to report at tho gym today.
Tho wlnnors of tho girls doublos 
tonnls tournament will bo awarded 
cups today at Gonoral Assembly, Tho 
wlnnors aro Miss Iloilig and Mis? 
Stoelo.
You hnvo tried tho REST 
Now try the BEST.
Como to the
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
I* ** J*
BASKET BALL SCHEDULE
I* Coach ...............................Bon Lubic
* Captain...............j. ec Anderson
> Manager.............................s. Bittner
> January 5Waynosburg, hero.
> January 12Penn stato, thoro.
> January 17Gottysburg, thore.
> January 18Delaware, thoro.
> Januardy 19Navy, thoro.
> Fobruary 2Pitt, thoro.
 Fobruary 5Pitt, hero.
 Fobruary 8Grove City, lioro.
 Fobnuary 0Gouova, horo.
 (February* 18Buoknoll, here.
 Fobruary 101onn Stato, boro
 Fobruary 21Wostminstor, horo
 Fobruary 22Wash-Jeff. horo,
 Fobruary 2DGrovo City, thore.
 March 1W. Va. Wosloyan, horo.
 March 5Alloghony, horo.
 March 7Gonova, tlioro.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ton yearn' experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
IlMablliihod 188(1, 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Joo. P. Fhihor, Jr.,
Owner and Manager, Court 0554
PLAID ATHLETIC S
Compliments
or
Skibo inn
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
Look them over. A first-class bunch, we'll say. You have seen them often before, but not exactly in this light. You have seen 
these boys on tho gridiron, struggling for the glory of their Alma Mater, and bringing glory In more ways than one. Relatively 
light, they nevertheless have played hard, clean football all through the season. Never once did an opponent complain of unfair tac
tics. Our team is universally known as a gentlemanly one, led by a gentleman and 
coached by gentlemen. This makes our highly successful season a most worthy one. And no one will deny that tho season was tho 
best In tho history of Carnegie Tech.
Hats off to Coach Wally Steffen! Best little football mentor of the scrappiest football tenm within a radius of three billion miles of Pittsburgh. Any instructor of the 
math department can prove that by integration. We do not know how good Wally is as a judge, but if we were to learn that he can 
handle divorce cases as smoothly as he does
a football team, we would like to be his graphite dealer, for that is what ho would havo to use.All thoso who have not henrd of Captain Jimmy Robertson, please stand up. We want to ask him from which plnnet he just dropped in on us. It is rumored that inhabitants of Mars have not yet learned whether Jimmy takes sugar in his coffee or not. But it is common knowledge thero that Jimmy pulled the stunt which trimmed Pitt; also, thnt he made some runs against Notre Dame which mnde Rocknos sprinters look slow.
No one needs an introduction to Jimmy Anderson, who was captain of the tenm last year. He played a whale of a game this year, 
and as it is hiB last in school, his place on the tenm will be very difficult to fill: Jimmy wns one of the best interfering hacks 
of the year, and also out-punted most of the opponents he went up against. A man of Andersons calibre is hard to find on any team, even with tho use of a microscope, telescope.
gyroscope, horoscope, finest kind of fine-tooth comb, or whnt not.Obia Newman was Andersons running 
mate until Obio hurt his leg badly late in tho season. Wo missed him in the Detroit 
and Noatro Dame games, but there is some consolation in the fact thnt O. B. will be 
with us another year.
Mefort had a bad start this season on account of injuries, but after ho was able to get into the games at all ho sure tore through 
the opponents on ,tho end-around falays. The big fellow ought to be at his best by next year. Heros luck to you. Whang.Tho fact thnt Eddie Gilbert transferred 
from Science to Architecture did not seem to nfleet his playing at guard this yenr, for he played as well as ever. However, those Science men who might think othcrwiso will 
have something definite to say about this after next season, for by that time Eddio will 
hnvo become thoroughly acclimated to his now surroundings.
Dutch Zelt will bo sorely missed on the lino next season, as will Cy Comfort. Both 
of these men have been fixtures on tho team for a long time, and it is with genuine regret 
thnt we will sea them go. Dutch was always there with n cool, level head, while Comfort's !>op and Inspiration wns a source of profit to the team. Comfort's educated toe was also n big factor in Carnegie Tech football. Cy could always be depended on when it came to kickofTs or goals after touchdowns.
Every good team has some Individual on It 
who can make it laugh, and the boys nssert Doo Tnylor could make the dummy of Ramoses II laugh till it 'waB black in the face. 
But in a game thero was not a more serious or determined player than Doc. Ho played the center position to perfection.
Because Yoder 1T to be found in tho Dramn Department when not playing tackle does not mean that he only nets football. The way 
ho tears into the opposing lino would bo enough to convince the most skeptical. By
the way, Yoder is one of the heaviest mon .on tho toam, and great tilings aro expected 'ot' him next year.Purl Anderson may bo tho last man to 
nrrivo for an appointmentin fact. Purl nearly missed tho train on several trips this yearbut when ho gets into n game, or at 
meal times, thero is nothing slow about him. Como back early next fall. Purl, as wo will need you badly on tho line.
"Big Bon" ICristof proved that a tackle can be converted into an end in caso of necessity. 
At least Pitt thinks so. Ben received the forward pass that made a gain of fifty-llvo 
yards and paved tho way for tho touchdown that mado history. By the time next season rolls nround Benny will be n polished end, and then watch out, opponents IWhy woro Steffens plays so deceptive and effective this year? Mont everyone knows 
they were, but do not know the real reason 
why. Well tell you. Because Steffen had a man of Brumbaugh ability to work thorn.
Brummy could handle tho ball bottor on a fake play than any fullback in tho country. And ho had the speed to carry on onco he got loose. Wo would liko to havo you with us n couplo of moro years. Chet,
For home-grown philosophy or good storloB wo refer you to Chet liable. It made no difference what happened, Chet always had 
an explanation for it. Injuries did not stop Chet, but ho kopt right on plugging. That trait with hla expert knowledge of tho game 
made Hablo a very valuable end thin year.We don't know why Max Bastlnn did not go out for tho hurdles last spring. Ho gave 
a fine exhibition of hurdling in tho Carroll game. It is said that between halves tho 
Carroll conch discussed tho probability of sending an aeroplane up after Max to bring him to earth. Bastlan wns a vory valuable 
man on tho tenm thiu year, alternating between halfback and Quarterback.Pittman did very creditable work in n rollof rolo, both at tho halfback and quarterback
positions. Ho was a sure tackier, and for n 
little follow conld take out men fully an well 
as nomo pluyers many pounds heavier than ho was.
Cnsa work at tncklo this year wan n reve
lation to many who had seen him play on tho 
Freshman team last season. Tho improve
ment ho showed was remarkable, and it in 
predicted that ho will bo onu of tho mainstayu on tho lino next year.
Tho fact thnt new ends had to bo develop
ed at tho beginning of tho season brought oul 
another youngster who did good work thin 
yenrMiko Goodwin. Ho uhowo excellent) promise for next fall.
Space does not permit us to publish n xoBumo of tho ontiro squad, but suffice it to nny 
that every man on tho scrubB deserves bin share of credit for the showing of tho varbity. They can feel proud that they did their uliaro 
in helping produce a team that has mado history at Carnogio Tech.
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS'
C. M. STAU FT
3001 FORBES 8TREET 
Artlotn and Enfinoceli Mate
rials Stationery and Gonoral 
Supplica for Student.
A DISTINCT AIIVMnSE '
To wltio youn({ poriiono connolontloiui advlco and iiuggoutlonii from mon long oxporlonotid In financial affalru often 
provo Invaluable.
Thl In one way In whloh 
thrifty young mon and women 
doponltoro profit through their 
dealings with tho Molion Na
tional Bank.
Our officer tako poruonal pride 
In promoting tho financial wel
fare of our cuBtomoro.

---------------------------------------------------

----------------THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER11, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE ! ! -
CLAN NEWS
CHICAGO CLAN
Officers for tins coming yoar wore 
elected at the luit monthly luncheon 
of the CarMgle Clan o Chicago, hold 
at the Hamilton Club. Mr. J. 13. Patrteniou wau elected preaident, Mr. W. 
riT. MacCouKhoy, vice pronldont; Mr. 
0. M. Lundy, nocrotary-troaHuror. The 
'Chicago Clan hj very active thin year 
and hau hold Home Interesting meotlngn. Any former BtudentH or grad
uate of Carnegie who are visiting or 1 living In Chicago aro Invited to at' tend their mcotlngB. Mr. Lundys ad'/Hhihs Is 5475 Klmharlc avenue, Chi1 'dago.
HARRI8BURG CLAN
The Carnegie Clan of Harrisburg Is 
planning a Christmas dance for Sat
urday, Decomber Carnegie stu,dents who are homo for the holidays 
aro Invltod to attend this party. De
tails of the party will bo published In 
this column next woelc.
DR. BAKER SPEAKER
AT A. S. C. E. BANQUET
CLAN WILL ENTERTAIN 
STUDENTS IN BUFFALO
Plans are being made by the Buffalo 
Clan to ontortalu at a Christmas party 
all Carnegie students and alumni In 
Buffalo over the holidays. The date 
has been set for Friday, Docornbor 
28. The Clan party will bo of real 
benefit to all that attend, students 
us well as alumni, espodally so since 
the party is planned for the special 
benefit of the stud'ents.
Next week, the final and authentic 
dope on the party will bo forthcoming. 
All that Is certain now, Is the dato. 
Koop It opon and watch the Alumni 
pugo for the nows.
DO YOU REMEMBER
In 1900
When all the students used to ansom bio weekly to rehoawo their sing
ing and cheering.
(Continued From Page One.) 
son, which would bring with It more 
perfect forms of government.
Since the Groat War there has been 
much dlscuHsIon as to the limits of 
human progress, and many poHHimistlc articles and books on the subject 
have appeared. My own Idea in that 
unloHS we belJovo that It is worth 
while to work for the advancement of 
humanity and the Increase of knowl
edge, civilization will soon lall Into 
decay."
In 190&
Whon the Boaux Arts gave special 
honors to four archltests and men 
tlons to thirty-three other Arts UtBo 
donts.
Carnegie and Pitt played al tie 
game of hockey In DuciuoBno Garden, 
ihe scoro heing 1 to 1.
In 1910
When the Maggie Murphs gave a 
Christmas play entitled "The Tri
umph of St. Nicholas."
Birmingham and Jacksonville Contend 
For the Services of Dummy Szold
Freshman: May I be excused? I
dont feel well.
Professor: Where do you feel sick
est?
Freshman: In Chemistry.
Wesleyan.
Going Home Xmas?
HAVE YOUR TRUNK HAULED BY 
TECH STUDENTS
Call ITARRY MERVIS, Drama
------or------
GARRICK 1121-M
TECH AUTO TRANSFER CO.
Two weeks ago, wo told you all 
about what "Mutts" Boots is doing, 
This weok wo havo another subject 
with an evon loss promising nick
name, namely Bernard Szold, who up 
fill last June was widely and affec
tionately known as just "Dummy." 
We looked forward to great things 
from him, but this Is rather taking 
time by the forelock, Hero itr what 
ono of tho Birmingham, Alabama 
newspapers say about him:
"The most Important step In Bir
minghams Littlo Theater movement 
has been takenthe selection of a 
director. Of course, a completed 
membership Js a desirable thing, but, 
unloss plays are properly produced, a 
capacity audience  could not compen
sate for the loss, because the Little 
Theater stands for an ideal, and In
artistic performances are a death blow \ 
to Idealism.
Bernard Szold, New Director.
The hour and. the man have met 
In tho person of Mr. Bernard Szold, a 
Russian by birth, an American by 
adoption, an artist by nature, and di
rector of Birminghams Little Thea
ter by choice.
"Mr. Szold is young, good looking, 
talented, artistic, energetic, painstak
ing, and competent. What more 
could be asked for from any man in 
any capacity? Ho was brought to our 
notice first by the man who has done 
such wonderful work in this line in 
New Orelans,' Mr. Hlnsdell. Down 
there, being different, they have Le 
Petite Theater du Vieux Carre, but 
no matter what they call It, Mr. Hinsdolls work has been so successful 
that Le Petite Theater now owns its 
own playhouse.
Wanted by Jacksonville.
"To return to Mr. Szold, for he is 
really tho big noise these days and 
hereabouts. Mr. Hlnsdell said Mr. 
Szold was the right man for Birming
ham and was so convincing in his 
praise that the board felt it just must 
have Mr. Szold to make the work a; 
success, so they sent a delegate down 
to Jacksonville, Texas, who caught 
him just in the act of signing a con
tract with that city, but who then 
spoke so convincingly and eloquently 
of Birminghams advantages over 
Texas that he dared not tempt fate 
by declining the offer made and so 
signed up then and there to steer our 
dramatic craft.
ALUMNI BOARD HOLDS 
DINNER MEET AT FRAT
Mr. Szohl's experience lias been 
wide and varied, theatrically speak
ing. Ho was co-director at North
western University in coaching their 
campus players, and the Betty Ross 
puppy players.
Studied at Carnegie.
"After leaving Northwestern, he 
took a threo year course at Carnegie, 
where ho distinguished himself great
ly. Under Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens, 
general director of the Drama Depart
ment there, and nationally known pa
geant-master, ho did notable work, 
taking leading roles in most of the 
plays presented.
"Carnegie seems to bo a great 
place to loarn the arts of the drama 
for to learn these one must practice 
them in a repertory theater, whero
they are practised in the greatest di
versity. When Galsworthy came 
there to see his "(Silver Box, in which 
Mr. Szold appeared, he pronounced 
the Little Theater at Carnegie the 
WORLDS FOREMOST THEATRIC
AL SCHOOL, which, of course, is a 
praise well worth having.
While a student at Carnegie, Mr. 
Szold did extensive outside work 
coaching the Womans Club of 4,000 
members, and The Twentieth Century 
Club, of Pittsburgh. He has taught
makeup, and has studied and experi
mented with all the new methods of 
stage lighting and scenic effects.
Star Quarter-Miler.
Fearing, (wo are still quoting our 
contemporary), that the men might 
consider him too much of a hi-brow to 
be capable, it must be told that he is 
also an athletic star. When the Car
negie coaches discovered his track 
ability, lie was immediately placed on 
the teams. Summing up his record in 
athletics at Northwestern and Car
negie we find that he was a member 
of the winning American team at the 
Inter-Allied track meet, and is holder 
of the Iowa State record for a quartermile, the Northwestern College for 
the quarter-mile, and the Indiana 
state collegiate record for the same 
distance. Inspite of these distinc
tions in a somewhat different line, Mr. 
Szold says: I am interested in the
production of plays, and shall devote 
the greater part of my time to that 
end. 
More power to you, Dummy, we are 
all watching you.
A Record Still U nbroken
At 5:20 P. M., March 8th, 1920, Westinghouse Turbine Established Worlds 
Record for Continuous Running.
Wliat Engineering Owes 
to Good Workmanship
r IIEN Wcslinghousc in^ .ailed a 40,000
K. W. Turbine in 
the power house of the Nnrrngnnsctt 
Electric Light Company, Providence,
R. I., early in December, 1919, there 
was no thought of more than the 
average weekly power house run. 
Abnormal weather conditions, how
ever, brought so steady a demand for 
power, that the unit was not shut 
down until March 8th, 1920, after a 
continuous run of 84 days, 11 hours, 
and 36 minutes.
This was especially remarkable in 
that the unit consists of two turbine 
generator sets, each of which operates inde
pendently of the other, so that the result was 
the mechanical equivalent of operating a 
single machine continuously for 109 days.
If space permitted, many astounding figures 
could be citedabout the K. W. 11. generated 
during this period, the water arid coal used, 
tho cooling system, the oiling system, etc.
For exn triple, to keep the genera tors cool, over 
18,000,000,000 cubic feet of air passed through 
them, which equals 2,000 times the total 
weight of the generators and their bed plates.
46,000 K. IF. U'estinghouse Cross-Compound Turbine Unit at the Station of the Narragamett Electrio Light Company, Providence, ii. 1.
Equally impressive, oil was pumped through 
the self-contained lubricating system to the 
bearings at the rate of 600 gallons a minute. 
Had the oiling system failed for only 30 sec
onds, the bearings would have been wrecked, 
and other parts of the unit harmed!
There is interesting history back of the 
operation of Wcstinghouse Turbine Units of 
3,000 Iv. W. and higher. Notable records have 
been made in many of the worlds great power 
plants, performance that,is a tribute to remark
able engineering and good workmanship.
Westmghouse (W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
ESTINGHOUSELECTRIC
The Board or Governors of the In
dustries Alumni Association held a 
dinner meeting on Wednesday, De
cember 5, at the Acacia Fraternity 
House, G30 Clyde street. The meet
ing was preceded by a dinner at which 
the members of the board were the 
guests of the members of the Acacia 
Fraternity. After dinner, the mem
bers were taken on an inspection trip 
through the house, which is quite 
large and very well furnished. The 
following were present at the meet
ing: Messrs. Orr, Lee, Ritts, Miller,
Fox, Jones and McDonald. The meet
ing adjourned at 9:45 p. m. and was 
voted by all, the most successful of 
the year.
HAVE YOU NOTED
THAT
The Junior Banquet will be held on 
Saturday night.
Many rumors concerning the use 
of the field house are going around.
The Varsity Clan Banquet was held 
last Saturday.
The Christmas number of the Pup
pet is coming out.
The League of Women Voters has 
been organized.
Colonel Day spoke to London over 
the radio.
Carnegie men won honors in the 
Beaux Arts awards.
PREPARATIONS CULMINATE
IN JUNIOR FEAST
(Continued From Page One.) 
go to the Davis, the Alvin, or the 
Nixon? This act is going to excell 
anything ever produced in the city.
One of the most prominent actors 
in the country will take part in this 
mammoth production. According to 
the committee this act alone is worth 
the admission fee.
Youve probably noticed the yellow 
tags floating around the campus. 
That means that the man wearing it 
has paid1 his .$2.50 for the banquet. 
Every Junior and Senior on the 
campus should be wearing a yellow 
.tag. Are you wearing one?
The committee that has had charge 
of the banquet consists of Kallfelz 
and Mellor of Industries, Sload and 
Garber of Arts, and Frazier and 
James of Science. They deserve a 
great deal of credit for their fine 
work.
GRAPHICA CARD SALE
TO END TOMORROW
(Continued From Page One.) 
They are to be distributed in the 
Printing Department, Room 122, In
dustries.
As a rouser to put over tho final 
steps of the campaign a Snap-it-up 
Banquet was held by the Grapliica last 
Friday night at tho Bird Cage Tea 
Room. The affair, featured by the in
troduction of a few new Grapliica 
songs and the absence of long-winded 
speakers, was pulled off by the print
ers. Tho sale of Christmas Cards 
was encouraged.
With only today and tomorrow left 
to buy Christmas Cards everyone 
should avail themselves of tho GrapliIcas offer.
CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
PUPPET TO BE OUT SOON
(Continued From Page One.) 
pets LEAP YEAR NUMBER after 
you como back from the holidays.
Tills all reminds us that Puppet Is 
craving contributions. Puppet must 
have the students aid on every issue. 
Contributors, do your stuff for the 
LEAP YEAR NUMBER. To the few 
who turned in copy or art work Pup
pet says, "Don't stop! To those who 
can write, or think they might, Pup
pet says: Get into the swim and
put Puppet at the head of the list of 
college comics. Carnegie must get 
that Judge College Wits Cup. Now 
lets goon the next Issue and turn In 
your fruits to the Puppet Box, College 
Postoffice.
TRUISMS
Throwing old shoes at the bride is a 
waste of leather.
Speaking of billboards, scenery and 
women look better without paint. 
Every day is Sunday to the slacker.
Northern Review.
BALLYROSS
Imported Moor Calf
$9
As good inside as it looks 
outside: Moor calf the 
latest creation ot: the tamus 
Glasgow tannery of W &. 
J Martin matcht by soles, 
linings, heels and work
manship that ar not to be 
betterd anywhere at any 
price.
Sturdy, substantial, stylish 
 hcvy enuf for winter 
wear  yet neither clumsy 
nor uncouth 
FRATERNITIES 
DECEMBER 17
nfia.. ^___________________ill Duane strert-KewYork City
New York University School of Retailing
A GRADUATE SCHOOL 
Retailing is a field of opportunity for the trained mind. The 
School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising Personnel Service
Advertising Training Finance and Control
Teachingare attractive fields.
SERVICE FELLOWSHIPS Class room and the store are closely linked together.
Students may enter second term February 4, 1924.
Illustrated booklet upon application.
For further information write
DR. NORRIS A. BRISCO, Director 
New York Univerity, School of Retailing 
100 Washington Square New York City
iliIMrr>\
I
I
0
8
I

111m
Nf
I
8

NMSi
Why Young Men Should 
Consider Insurance Selling
Seven Reasons for Life Insurance Career
LlFE INSURANCE is founded on the 
highest ideals.
It is capable of yielding a good income and 
the satisfaction of accomplishment.
It offers opportunities for real leadership.
It brings insurance salesmen in close asso
ciation with big business and big business 
men.
It requires education in business methods, 
law and finance.
It is a field for workers, not shirkers.
It is an alluring and practical calling for men 
of dynamic energy.
trfh RlMBgnlLh yYSbnlsv
Yf aYMPYlD mnMMnLUBMhPPM
Sixty-onc years in business. Now insuring One Billion 
Seven Hundred Million dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives
m
Sk
NO one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them 
 for their quality 
instantly wins ap
preciation.
ORIGINALMELACHRINOI
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over j[
Never flunks
this lifetime friend
liW
hill
'i . /%
A TRUE friend is a staunch 
onealways reliable. Men 
who bought their Rubberset 
Shaving Brushes way back in 
1888, when we first started, still 
find them the same reliable friends 
each morning.
Rubbersets are always ready 
to whip up a big, speedy lathef 
that works down to. the very 
roots of the hairholding each 
erect, easy to cut.
Gripped in. rubber 
guaranteed
There is reason for Rubberset's 
remarkable service. Every Rub
berset bristle is gripped everlast
ingly in hard rubberit cant 
come out, get mixed with the 
latherhinder shaving.
Jjst for added certainty, Rub
berset Brushes are guaranteed 
unconditionally. The bristles 
stay in. Each brush makes good 
or we do. Get this prime essen
tial to a clean, cool shave . . . 
today ... at any store on the 
campus. Made by Rubberset 
Company, Newark, N. J., U. S. A.
DR.KAMET[RUBBERSET
the world'sSHAVING
tan dardBRUSH
P ATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
