TARTAN
September 27,1977 Volume 78, Number 4, Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Gerry Dalton, CMU's latest Housing Director, hopes to stay longer than his predecessors.
Rhodesians speak out 
on American education
Se ptmb rt2b7,12
At first I thought I was going on a 
nine month vacation, commented Joshua, 
one of the 28 Rhodesians studying manage
ment and Public Policy at SUPA. But I 
didnt know the details then.
According to SUPA dean, Otto Davis, 
We work them hard. Erica, one of the 
three white students in the program, 
agreed, adding that she hasnt had time for 
much else besides her studies.
Erica noted that school pressure in the 
United States is constant throughout the 
semester due to quizzes, papers, and graded 
homework assignments. In Rhodesia, most 
of the pressure comes at the end of the 
semester, since final examinations are the 
sole gauges that determine grades.
Larry, a political science graduate of the 
University of Rhodesia explained that the 
SUPA curriculum comes down and does 
little things. For example, Larry notices 
that economics at CMU is quantitatively 
oriented, using figures to express points, 
whereas Rhodesian economics courses 
emphasize the social sciences.
John, who received a technical school 
education in Rhodesia, found the 
American education system to be selfcontained, relying on American research 
rather than international research for 
sources of information. But John feels 
that the Americans place a great emphasis 
on teaching communication skills, an ele
ment lacking in his native education 
system.
Although Joshua now respects the 
American education system, he came into 
the program with a negative attitude. 
Joshua had friends who had received 
U.S. college degrees in three or four years, 
while a Rhodesian degree requires two 
years of post-high school study before de
gree work begins. Joshua had looked upon 
a U.S. college degree as a dime a dozen, 
But now, he realize(s) otherwise.
Besides noting differences in the educa
tion systems Larry is learning to be an 
equal in society after years of living in a 
segregated world. Similarly, Erica ob
served that womens liberation is un
heard of in Rhodesia. Rhodesians do
continued on page 2
OE collects on student loans
CMU hires new Housing Director
kn n<in I iuol/ S e  p  e tmbr 27Se 9t, V7otl
After a long succession of short-term 
Housing Directors, CMU might have found 
one wholl stay on more than 16 months.
Gerry Dalton comes to CMU after ser
ving as Assistant Director of Housing at 
U. Pitt. When asked about the short dura
tions of his predecessors, he said, I hope 
to change that tradition. I hope to con
vince the Administration that Im serious 
(about making this a career) and that 
theyll be pleased enough so they wont 
ask me to leave.
How does he like being at CMU?
Im pleased to be here during a transi
tional period of the student affairs area. 
They have just hired the new Resident Dir
ectors, and theyll be working towards 
making students feel more like theyre in 
a total living unit, rather than, oh, youre a 
student from the other side of campus.  
What does hie think about the other 
side of campus, and the new dorm?
CMU is very wise in the move theyre 
making in building a dorm; normally, 
universities are not doing this. Its not goThc job of collecting defaulted fed
erally insured student loans will soon be 
placed in the hands of a private collection 
organization, HEWS Office of Education 
has announced.
The Office of Education (OE) is solic-* 
iting proposals from organizations which 
have had nationwide experience in collect
ing summer loans and in tracing the where
abouts of defaulters.
Noting that OE is exercising an author
ity provided by the Congress in the Ed
ucation Amendments of 1976, Leo Kornfeld, Deputy Commissioner for Student 
Financial Assistance, said the decision 
to use a private organization to collect 
defaults is  rooted in our firm conviction 
that those who are able, but unwilling to 
pay their debts do a grave injustice to 
continued on page 5
ing to be a large dorm, and its not neces
sarily being built to take on that many 
additional students, but it is to replace 
some of the buildings that cant be mod
ernized to bring students to the Univer
sity.
Does he see any price hikes coming 
in housing?
No, I dont think so. Any increases 
will probably be directly related as a result 
of...new services... like Centrex.
Does he foresee an increase in co-ed 
housing?
I believe we have to keep some areas 
totally for females, if that is their prefer
ence. I also feel that we have to split the 
two sides of the campus, and if there are 
more males who want to live on the Morewood side, and more females who want to 
live on the other side, then I think we can 
make changes in buildings and floors to 
give more choices in the area where stu
dents want to live.
Dalton concluded, Im very studentoriented; once I get my feet on the ground 
and know whats happening around here, 
Ill be open to discussion with students.
inside
Schatz's program will help full-time teachers and 
graduates improve their teaching skills.
Teachers, grads 
improve skills
Se ubb78N 4CbS12a
Many people will be involved this term, 
and possibly all year, in developing a suit
able program for improving the quality of 
teaching at CMU. The program is to be 
geared not only to graduate students who 
aid in teaching undergraduates, but also 
to those regular and new faculty members 
who wish to improve their teaching.
Although still early in the planning 
stages, the program will most likely include 
seminars taught by current CMU faculty. 
Vice-President for Academic Affairs, 
Edward Schatz, is leading the project. Dr. 
Schatz envisions some crucial but not in
surmountable problems to be dealt with 
before an equitable and efficient program 
is adopted.
Realizing that the many disciplines 
taught here probably each have different 
ways in which grad students are employed 
in teaching. Dr. Schatz is currently under
taking a data search in conjunction with 
Academic Deans and their department 
heads. The Educational Affairs Council 
of the Faculty Senate is working closely 
with Dr. Schatz in developing this program, 
which must also be supported by the 
Faculty Senate. Students with thoughts on 
the program should contact members of 
the Educational Affairs Council.
news
New Public Relations Course Of
fered (pg.2)
SARC to Hold First Meeting (pg. 2)
WRCT elects new General Manager 
(pg 4)
entertainment
Steve Martin gets small (pg. 19) 
Punk Rock and the Future (pg. 17)
sports
Results from Away Football Game(pg. 21)
folio
People You Ought to Know and a Special 
Look at Hal Aqua Today (pg. 10)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-TARTAN-September 27, 1977
Service teaches PR
I n addition to his duties in the Public Relations Office, Service now teaches a course that should 
help anyone who must deal with the public.
by Brian Byrnes
Starting this year, the Department of 
Administration and Management Science is 
offering a one-semester course in public 
relations for juniors and seniors. Entitled 
Public Relations for Industrial Administra
tion (70-520), the course was developed 
and is taught by Ken Service of the Public 
Relations Office.
70-520 is mainly an elective for AMS 
students, though there are students major
ing in English and other areas enrolled in
SARC announces plans, projects
by Elliot Ohlberg
The first general campus meeting of the 
Student Alumni Relations Club (SARC) 
will be held on Wednesday, September 28, 
at 8:30 PM in the Wherrett Room of 
Skibo. The purpose of the meeting is to 
give the campus an opportunity to learn 
about and join SARC. Doug Konopka, 
current President of SARC, hopes there 
will be a large turnout.
SARC came into being in May of 1976, 
when the students who were appointed to 
work with alumni on the Senior Banquet 
Committee expressed die wish to extend 
their relations with alumni beyond just 
banquet planning. Those initial appoint
ments were made by Konopka, who was 
then Student Government President. Ko
nopka remarked, Those students felt that 
alumni could be a great resource to all 
students at CMU. On the other hand, 
alumni could benefit from students by 
keeping in touch with campus affairs and 
current trends. A successful member
ship drive was organized during the sum
mer of 76, and last year, SARC had 80 
members, three fourths of whom are 
active. (This is a much higher rate than 
most clubs at CMU.)
Konopka elaborated on the unique 
personal relationship that can exist be
tween alumni and students. Because 
all alumni have graduated from CMU, 
they have been through what we the stu
dents are going through now. They speak 
from experience. Thus, alumni are able to 
give career advice and academic and 
social recommendations. They can also 
help in getting students acquainted with 
the university and city. By talking with 
current students, alumni can learn a great 
deal about college lifestyles of today. This 
is helpful when choosing a college for their 
own kids. Also, attitudes of students to
day will be carried into business and indus
try tomorrow, (and this is) important 
knowledge for managerial leaders today. 
Konopka believes that in an organization 
like SARC, both students and alumni can
Rhodesians talk
continued from page 1
not accept the career woman.
John added that Americans appeared 
highly competitive to him, in a rushrush society caught up in a sense of in
dividualism to do whatever you like, as 
long as you dont hurt anyone.
All four students heard about the CMU 
Rhodesian exchange program through the 
press, though Erica said that others were 
encouraged to try out for the program by 
their employers.
After hearing of his acceptance from 
among 250 candidates, Larry thought, it 
was too good to be true. Erica added that 
she was, and still is, in a state of shock. 
After returning home, John and Larry 
hope to assume positions in private 
industry. Larry wants to meet the
needs, while John explicitly would like 
to become a director of a company, as 
well as promote blacks to responsible 
positions and allow blacks to hold stock 
in private corporations.
Erica and Joshua would like to join the 
public sector. Erica, who already has a 
post-graduate degree in city and regional 
planning, hopes to initiate regional plan
ning in Rhodesia. In doing so, she hopes to 
coordinate social and economic develop
ment. Joshua, too, wants to aid in the 
development of his country.
When the Rhodesian students return to 
their homeland, they will find a country 
in social and political turmoil. But Larry 
feels he is one of the lucky ones, 
equipped to deal with present instability 
and insure future security.
Correction
Last weeks TARTAN contained errors 
in the article entitled Scholarship dead
lines approach. The middle section of 
the article should have read as follows: 
Hertz Fellowships: The Hertz Foundation 
annually awards 25 to 35 new grants to 
students for graduate study in the applied 
Physical Sciences. The awards are made 
for one year and are renewable for a total 
of three years and are tenable at any one 
of fourteen prestigious institutions in the 
U.S. including Carnegie-Mellon. Selected 
candidates receive a stipend of $5500 
($6500 if the Fellow is married) and the 
Foundation also pays all tuition and fees. 
The deadline for applications to be recei
ved by the Foundation office is Novem
ber 1.
Luce Scholarships'. The Luce scholarship 
program seeks to promote American under
standing of Asian cultures by providing 
scholarships for fifteen Americans to spend 
ten months as interns in an Asian organi
zation. The stipend for each scholar is 
$9000. Carnegie-Mellon may propose 
two nominees who submit formal applica
tions for the scholarships. Candidates 
should have a record of the highest aca
demic achievement combined with evi
dence of outstanding leadership ability 
and must be no more than 29 years of age 
on September 1 of the year he or she 
enters the program. The names of the 
Universitys nominees and supporting 
documentation must be received by the 
foundation no later than December 5. 
Marshall Scholarships'. Thirty men and 
women are selected each year to study as 
Marshall Scholars for two years at British 
universitites in a wide range of subjects 
(including the sciences and humanities). 
A Marshall Scholarship provides S5220 
annually to cover tuition, books, travel 
expenses and a monthly stipend. Appli
cations must be received by October 22.
gain much.
SARC is organized into eight committies.
The Speakers Bureau Committee con
sists of a few students who travel to Pitts
burgh and distant alumni clans to discuss 
current trends on campus.
The Summer Jobs Bank Committee runs 
a service designed to help students get sum
mer jobs in their field through the help of 
alumni.Career Development Committees goal 
is to allow students to learn as much as 
possible about specific careers, in the 
hope that the student will find that career 
he or she is best suited for.
The Freshman Information Service wel
comes and initiates incoming frosh and 
grad students to CMU and Pittsburgh.
The four remaining committees are 
Homecoming and Spring -Carnival, Senior 
Banquet, Publicity, and Internal Affairs.
This past weekend, some SARC officers 
attended the 4'th Annual Student Alumni 
National Convention at Virginia Tech. The 
purpose of the convention was to let the 
40 or more schools with organizations like 
SARC exchange ideas. Good ideas are then 
incorporated into SARCs own program.
it. According to Service, the course would 
help anyone who will be part of any organ
ization which has to contend with a public. 
It is not intended to train people to go 
out of the course and be able to immedi
ately practice public relations, he explain
ed, but people who are going to be in 
business eventually should be aware of 
what public relations can and cant do, 
and how they should use it if theyre in 
a management situation.
According to Service, theres more to 
public relations than just publicity. 
What the course tries to do is explain the 
other dimensions of public relations and 
show how it fits into the organization 
how management should use public re
lations.
The text for the course is Effective 
Public Relations, which Service believes 
is about the best basic public relations 
textbook thats ever been written. Later 
on in the course, Service will bring in 
people who work in different areas of pub
lic relations and in the news media. They 
will lecture on their own experiences in 
public relations and how the theories dis
cussed in the text are put to use in the real 
world.
Service believes that public relations 
role in todays world is expanding. Its 
becoming more and more obvious that bus
iness and industry (have) to deal with pub
lic relations. Business is recognizing this 
and is dealing more aggressively with 
the public, both responding to public 
opinion and also demonstrating the ways 
in which they are responsive corporate 
citizens.
Service emphasizes in the course that 
public relations is a composite, based on 
performance and making that performance 
known to the public. If you dont have 
a base of solid, socially responsible per
formance to deal from, no amount of pub
licity or other kinds of techniques like that 
are going to help you in the long run. You 
have to be dealing from a base of responsi
ble action.
Cutout for a weekend
If the books, lectures or dorm walls are getting to you... its time to 
escape. At National Car Rental you can rent an Oldsmobile 
Cutlass or similar-size car at this low rate and escape in style. So make 
plans to head for the country, the mountains or wherever pastures 
are greener. Make your reservation with National today.
We feature GM cars.
4621 FORBES AVENUE 682-1444
National Car Rental
You pay for gas and re-turn t ar to renting <itv Kate available Friday 220022 to Monday noon 
Non-dlsiountable rate subject tochange without notic e

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 3
Senate murmurs
Se V7,nt 91tl
Chairperson of Senate, Dave Roussos, 
expressed concern about the future of the 
organization. At Wednesdays meeting he 
announced that the number of open Sen
ate seats had increased from four to six, 
due to additional resignations. Roussos 
plans to crack down on attendance re
quirements in hopes of preventing other 
informal meetings. Any student interested 
in helping to rejuvenate Senate should ob
tain a petition from the Information Desk. 
Formal elections will be held in November, 
but Senate can operate much more effi
ciently if the positions are immediately 
filled.
Dean Swank began the officers reports 
with a reprimand for those who are guilty 
of postering in undesignated areas. Posters 
should be hung on bulletin boards that are 
strategically located on campus. Swank 
heavily encourages the movie screen mo
lesters to advertise legitimatelv
Swank mentioned that the Board of 
Trustees meeting is slated for January 10. 
He asked Senate to think of items to be 
placed on the agenda of the Student Af
fairs Committee of the trustees. The trust
ees will also review the Universitys proce
dures for crisis intervention. Some students 
may think the procedures include the an
swers to the Physics final, but they are es
sentially geared toward counselling.
John Lubon announced that he met 
with Mayor Caliguiri, who asked for Sen
ates endorsement during his November 
campaign. It was voted that Senate would 
not endorse the candidate, as it would not 
support any other candidates campaign.
For as much as Senate protested en
dorsement of candidates, Lubon managed 
to gain approval on his appointees to the 
Educational Affairs Council of the Faculty 
Senate. Now serving on the council are 
Jacqueline Whitney, a graduate student: 
Pat Crump, a junior in H&SS; Jim 
Gasbarro, a junior from CIT^Kevin Markwell, also a junior from CIT; and Elliot 
Ohlberg, a junior from MIS.
During the New Business segment of the 
meeting, Judy Vetter appeared before the 
floor, gaining Senates approval to serve on 
the board of the Student Corporation, a 
group which oversees the activities of many 
organizations, including WRCT.
The Finance Committee experiencec 
both the loss of its chairperson and the 
gain of a new senator. Tom Engelman re 
signed as finance chairperson (as of Wed 
nesday), but managed to first restructure 
the budgets of Scotch n Soda and the 
continued on page 5
Promotions
Announced
The following professors have been awarded tenure as of the 1977-78 school 
year:
Robert Eisenstein, Physics; Albert Impink, Jr., Nuclear Science and Engineering; 
Samuel Leinhardt, Sociology; Clarence 
Miller, Chemical Engineering; and Thomas 
Morton, Industrial Administration.
The following professors have received 
promotions:
Peter Barnes, Physics; Preston Covey, 
History; Charles Goodspeed III, Civil En
gineering; William Haney, Art; Albert Impink, Jr., Nuclear Science and Engineering; 
William Kelley, Biological Sciences; Samuel 
Leinhardt, Sociology ; Charles Manski, Eco
nomics; Richard McKelvey, Political 
Science; and Clarence Miller, Chemical En
gineering.
Also receiving promotions are Yvette 
Miller, Modern Languages and Literature; 
M. Granger Morgan, Electrical Engineering 
and Engineering and Public Policy; Marcus 
Morgan, Chemistry; Irving Oppenheim, 
Civil Engineering and Architecture; Donald 
Sutton, History ; Robert Swinehart, Design; 
Sarosh Talukdar, Electrical Engineering; 
David Walton, English; Michael Weber, 
History; William Williams, Mathematics; 
and Hugh Young, Physics.
GIANT BOOK SALE
REMBRANDT: His Life, His Work, His Time.
By B. Haak. 612 lllus., 109 Full Color Handtipped Plates. The most definiitve, important 
book on Rembrandt ever produced, this magnifi
cent vol. was published on-the tercentenary of 
Rembrandts death. Every aspect of his art is 
beautifully illus. and Rembrandts touch is con
veyed - through the paintings, enlarged details 
of them, the many stages of his etchings and the 
near facsimile reproductions of his astonishingly 
free drawings. Mammoth Size 11 x 13%. Weighs 
Over S3/a Pounds.
Orig. Pub. at $60,00 Only $24.95
GRAYS ANATOMY: The Classic Full Color
Collectors Edition. 780 Detailed lllus. and Dia
grams, incl. 172 Color Plates. This landmark 
1901 edition of one of the greatest reference 
works of all time is a must for physicians, 
students, artists, and the medically curious. The 
1248 page text is teeming with fascinating infor
mation. New intro., quality printing, handsome 
binding, and a fantastic low price.
Astounding Value Only $7.98
THE BARN, A Vanishing Landmark in North 
America. By Eric Arthur and Dudley Witney. 412 
photographs, 134 in color. A written and pictori
al record of these venerable and rapidly 
disappearing structures captures, in text, designs', 
architectural plans and beautiful photographs, a 
people, a way of life, and the land from which 
they sprang.
Pub. at $25.00 Only $12.98
/"----------1
The A~Z of
^ CHINESE COOKING
*
Illustrated by Arthur Rackham: POES TALES
OF MYSTERY AND IMAGINATION. 29 lllus., 
12 in Full Color. The original edition commands 
hundreds of dollars on todays market yet here 
are all of the eerie tales by the master of macabre 
illustrated as only Rackham could have done 
them contained in that original. Incl. The TellTale Heart, The Pit and the Pendulum, 
The Gold Bug, The Purloined Letter, 21 
others.
Sensational Value Only $5.98
THE A-Z OF CHINESE COOKING. Fully illu
strated with 60 Ful!-Color photographs and draw
ings. Over 180 recipes cover all aspects of the fasinating and rewarding art of Chinese cooking. 
From red-cooked meats, to rice, noodles and 
dumplings, these are delicious recipes which 
sound as tempting as they taste: Butterfly 
Prawns, Szechuan Noodles, Raindrop Soup. Also 
includes sections on tasty snacks and special 
occasional meals.
Pub. at $12.98- Only $4.98
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF WILLIAM 
SHAKESPEARE. 28 lllus. Luxuriously bound, 
complete edition containing every word that 
Shakespeare wrote  all 37 tragedies, comedies, 
and histories, plus the sonnets, etc. 1248 pages 
bound in sumptuous simulated leather and 
stamped in simulated gold.Orig. 2 Vol. Set Pub. at $20.00 
One Vol., Only $4.98
PHOTOGRAPHIC SEEING. The New Guide to 
Better Photography by the author of The Color 
Photo Book and The Complete Photographer. 
By Andreas Feininger. Step-by-step manual for 
the ambitious photographer into the secrets of 
seeing potential subjects the way his camera 
would see them. An indispensable comple
ment to any photographers technical library. 
Pub. at $9.95 Only $2.98
2236(6 THI ANATOMY Of COSTUMI. 6y R Selbte lllus by 
V. Ambrus. Hundreds of lllus. in Fui Color. Colorful picture history 
of clothing and accessories from Egyptian to modern times. The 
clot hat which sot th* stylo oro described and splendidly illus. with 
dotailod and annotated drawings.
extra Voluo Import Only $7.91
001*1. AIT TMASUtfS Of THI PCKINO MUSCUM. Text by 
Francois Fourcode. 7 hand-tipped Plot.,  Fu Color. Th. groat 
storehouse of the finest Chinas* ort-the Impanai Poloca Musaum 
collection Kos bon unovoiiobt# to Wttom tytt for mony yon. This 
handsome voluma prasants tha history with notobla examples of its 
mognHicent paintings and its exquisite ceramics. 11 x 13.
Pub. at $23.00. Only $19.9$
EURKA! An Illustrated History of Inventions 
from the Wheel to the Computer. Edited by 
Edward de Bono. Here in 248 colorful pages are 
pictured and explained hundreds of key inven
tions  from fountain pens to algebra, from can 
openers to nuclear reactors. Each is described by 
one of 75 scientists, engineers and science wri
ters, all authorities in their fields. A book for the 
layman, with over 500 iHustrations, diagrams and 
photos  a happy, fascinating volume for hours 
of fun and discovery. (10 x 12).
Pub. at $25.00 Only $12.98
5239 TM MOM STOtY: THo Compiete History af Fifty
Roaring Yoors ly J.D. Eamas. Ovor 2,000 Hus. in Mocfc A Whitt 
and Fui Color. Al lha Skin of MGM through 1976 ora dascribad and 
Xus. in Fui Color and Mock and whito in tha compiata story of MGM 
pubfished tor tha first tima. PVis al lha legends, gossip, triumphs and 
foAi-. of thosa who modo up MGM. Ind. many previously unpub
lished sts. 9V* i 12. Pub. at $23.00. Only $12.9*
217376. WHAAM: Roy UMe-.Mn. *y
Fl Color, lichtanstein ap.tom.ia Pop ArV 
^ with reproduction, of htorn.
wall os his sculpture, p^Sto. of dtfamle.of hi, career, was prepared wrth the dose porne**" ^
HtmieW I* * on. bt ,tu*e. e~ don^
moanified common place imoges to the pomt ot new . . .. .
rigors, his Eouhfut *ol. nd. on teor-w * 
ZtL^y*  12*. Pub. ot $37 50. 0-*V
039049. WOOOWOCKINO TOOtS 6 HOW TO USI THtM 300
I Dus. Complete instructions with fui details on methods, techniques and 
care. Now, completo od. Only $2.99
A NATURAL HISTORY OF OWLS. By Michael 
Everett. 40 full color, 130 B&W photos. The owl, 
symbol of wisdom and mystery, with its huge 
head, st aring eyes , silent flight and nocturnal habhabits, holds a strange fascination, c apt ured here 
in an excitingly illustrated survey of the owls of 
the world, from our own diminutive Elf Owl to 
the powerful Eurasian Eagle Owl. Discusses or
igins, evolution and habits and explains how, 
through specialized anatomy ahd highly devel
oped skills, the owl has become the ultimate bird 
of prey. (81/? x 11**).
Special Value $8.98
THE ILLUSTRATED STEPBY STEP CHI
NESE COOKBOOK. The Best Easy-to-Make 
Recipes from the Great Regional Cuisines of 
China. By Paul C. Huang. A useful and beauti
ful book that will be treasured by all who love 
good food. Magnificently detailed step-bystep drawings show even a beginner how to pre
pare delicious meals with ease.
Pub. at $9.95 Only $4.98
C-MU Bookstore

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-TARTAN-September 27, 1977
New Music Director Rick Segal gets in the groove.
WRCT holds 
elections
by Douglas Weber
Two weeks ago today, Amy Boyle was 
elected General Manager of WRCT by the 
WRCT staff. She filled the position vacated 
earlier this month by William Doorley, 
who no longer attends CMU.
One week after her election, Boyle ap
pointed Rick Segal as Music Director, Dave 
Doremus as Production Manager, and Judy 
Vitale as Program Director. The station still 
lacks a News Director and a Director of 
Public Relations*
Boyle hopes to obtain advisors from 
area radio stations so WRCT can add pro
fessional techniques to its operation.
In a related plan, Boyle plans to insti
tute block format to the music program
ming as soon as the station can broadcast 
twelve hours per day. (They had been 
broadcasting reduced hours due to a lack 
of disc jockeys.) This format entails broad
casting only a specific type of music in 
3-hour blocks. For example, weekdays 
from 3 to 6 they will play either rock or 
jazz or show tunes, etc. From 6 to 9 they 
will play another type of music, and from 
9 they will play another type of music, 
and from 9 to twelve yet another. The 
midnight to 3 block will be completely 
free-form. This format will let listeners 
leam what to expect at what time. WRCT 
is looking for prospective DJs who know a 
particular area of music well, and who 
want to be on the air. Those interested 
should report to the station.
Another plan Boyle has is to move the 
broadcast antenna from the top of Skibo 
to the top of Warner Hall. Since the 10 
big watts WRCT puts out only allows lineof-sight reception, many CMU students 
have trouble receiving the stations sig
nal. Boyle wants to make tne station 
available to all students, as is the campus 
newspaper.
Some long-range projects include a seminightly campus news program (which will 
be a co-operative effort between WRCT 
and the TARTAN), dramatic presentations, 
and talk shows.
Boyle wishes to thank Bill Furnass and 
the rest of the staff for their assistance 
in managing WRCT-FM.__________________
counting on you.
Jggj^Cros^The^Cood^teg^bor
TI7YA<J
INSTRUMENTS
PC 100 Printer 
5050M Printer 
5100 Desk Model 
SR50 $49
SR51 -it $50
SR56 $82
SR57 $04 SR58
$149 
$82 
$39 
SR52 
SR40 
Bus. Anoly 
$104 SR59
NEW TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 5040 
PRINTING ELECTRONIC CALCULATOR
with display 
and memory*9800tiJSf
NEW SHARP 1057 
ELECTRONIC PRINTING 
CALCULATOR
 ADD MODE ^64.95
 DECIMAL SELECTOR
HEWLETT PACKARD
HP21 $69
HP22 $107
HP25 $109
HP25C $140
HP27 $149
HP80 $265
HP67 In Stock
HP97 In Stock
Check our discount prices on SCM, 
Olympia, Royal & Olivetti 
Typewriters Manuals from...... 59S5t...............*134**We take yoor old machine in trade.
PHILIP S. WIENER, Inc.
CT DITTCQIIDnU DA ICOlO AAI/I Aklf\ 
FREE 
PARKING
229 ATWOOD ST., PITTSBURGH PA. 15213 OAKLAND6*3-031^
Call your mother*
Nobody in the world understands you the way she does. And she would love to 
hear how youre doing right now 
Call your mother tonight...Long Distance. Because if you dial the call your
self, station-to-station, between 5 and 11 P.M., youll be able to talk for ten 
minutes for $2.57 (plus tax) or less to anywhere in the continental U.S. 
except Alaska!
Dial-direct rates do not apply to person-to-person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect calls, or to calls charged to another number. 
Dial-direct rates apply on calls placed with an operator where direct dialing facilities are not available.
Long Distance. What else is so nice for the price?
Bell of Pennsylvania
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about food service,

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 5
Loan crackdown to beginSenate
continued from page I
with an opportunity for education..
the American public who provided them
They do a serious disservice to the vast 
majority of former students who honor 
their obligations and jeopardize the fu
tures of millions of students whose ed
ucation aspirations hinge on the ability 
of these loans, he continued.
Basically, the successful bidder for the 
contract will be required to locate default
ed borrowers, establish a payment sched
ule and arrange for payments to be made 
to OE.
Another part of the job will be to 
recommend measures OE should take- 
including legal action- on debts the or
ganization is unable to collect, 
the activities of some 106 OE collectors 
and appropriate support personnel located 
mostly in HEW Regional Offices across 
the country. Until now, OE employees 
have had sole responsibility for FISLP 
collections. However, for a number of 
years, many guarantee agencies have used 
private firms to collect their defaulted 
loans.
The contractor will receive no appro
priated Federal funds. Instead, OE will 
pay the organization a percentage of the 
payments collected.
The contract will apply only to the 
Federal Insured Student Loan Program 
(FISLP), under which the Federal Gov
ernment has directly insured approx
imately one-half of all loans in the Guar
anteed Student Loan Program. The rest 
have been guaranteed by one of 27 State or 
private nonprofit guarantee agencies. The 
Guaranteed Student Loan Program was 
authorized by the Higher Education Act 
of 1965.
continued from page 3
Tech Radio Club. Scotch n Soda was al
located an additional $200 to cover the 
expense of new programs it will initiate 
this year. An additional $90 was given to 
the Tech Radio Club for telephone instal
lation &nd operation. The club felt that 
emergency situations necessitated having 
access to a phone.
Dan Cordes, a freshman in CIT, pre
sented his petition for a seat in his constit
uency. Needless to say, he was unani
mously accepted by Senate, and has al
ready volunteered his services to the Fin
ance Committee.
Senate may change its meeting day and 
time to appease all schedules of those in
volved. Until a decision is reached, the 
meetings will continue to be held on Wed
nesdays at 6:30 in the Wherrett Room.
Business. Science. Engineering.
This semester is the right time to get a TI calculator tailored to the work youre doing.
<?. 7 18 88 889
t ,19SV toVlu8N1olV
*
$5995
SR-1-II
Professional decision making system. 
Loaded with statistics functions.
Accounting. Marketing. Education. 
Social Sciences. Life Sciences. Health. 
Statistics plays a major role in dozens 
of career fields. Heres a calculator with 
the advanced capability you need to 
handle your projects. Comes with 
Calculating Better Decisions, a $4.95 book value. 
Helps you get the most out of the SR-51-II. Stepby-step illustrations show how to use its powerful 
preprogrammed functions. Learn how to gather 
data. Weigh alternatives. Arrive at rapid, accurate 
decisions.
* * 6 S' ? 3. S b
,19SV toVlu8N1olV
[ 
2ndCPTIn*
e
ptCLR
%iPMT>V
"_y;i
%VxDBDx\y1+
LBN
RST
SST
R/S"T\
COW
a
CMSLGI
STOmmnmma
CXC
RCLmmbmbm
S*OCf>
a7995
+/- 8 =
The MBA
Business cakulator 
A business majors dream machine.
If youre building a career in business, the MBA 
can be ideal. It provides instant answers to com
plex business problems at the touch of a key. It is 
preprogrammed for a wide variety of functions 
and formulas business professionals face every 
day. Take internal rate of return, for example, a 
valuable calculation for accurate capital budget
ing. Its complicated, often difficult, and takes time. 
The MBA handles it in seconds, for 12 
different cash flows! It also offers pro
grammabilityup to 32 keystrokes for 
solving repetitive problems easily.
Sufcjfi'stod retail pritC'1977 Texas Instruments IncorporatedCutof rafweknuawf
I N ( OR POR ATI I)
then call the Food Service Director's Hot Line, X653, Monday 5-6pm

---------------------------------------------------

TARJAN
The scoreUs, 3; Them, 3
Three weeks have gone by since classes began. Upperclass
men are settling into familiar routines, and freshmen have 
finally learned their way around campus. Some people have 
already pulled their first all-nighter of the semester. It is no 
longer the beginning of the year.
Before we completely leave the phase of fresh-faced op
timism, with which we started the school year, and move into 
the next phase of tired indifference, with which we finish up 
the year, we must examine how these first few weeks of 
school have gone. What have the students and Administration 
done well, what have we done poorly, what should we do in 
the future, and what should not be done again?
It is dearest what we should not do again: lie, keep silent 
on important issues, and ignore other issues. Sadly enough, 
the start of this year has seen no more trust or communica
tion between the Administration and the students than has 
been seen in past years. Consider these incidents:
The Administration abruptly shut down Morewood desk 
operations without even an announcement to Morewood res
idents. Nor were residents consulted on the shut-downor 
were they? The September 13 TARTAN quotes an RA saying 
that officials told her they consulted some people in SDC. 
But the next weeks TARTAN contained a letter from SDC 
President Sam Grego, which read in part, those officials are 
lying...I was not consulted.  So the Administration is doubly 
guilty: first, for not informing residents, and second, for 
lying about consulting students.
The Administration is also guilty of keeping silent on the 
true state of housing. In the same article about the More
wood desk, Bill Dillon said that though its nice to talk about the desk, there are more important things to dicuss 
mainly, that all seniors and some juniors will probably be 
denied housing next year. That brief warning was the first 
and last students have heard on this impending problem. 
Housing hasnt denied the story, so it must be true. If Dil
lons obiter dicta is to be the only news students will hear about the shortage, then the Administration can and will be 
called sly and dishonest.
Students are also at fault for the present lack of communi
cation. Beginning with the Morewood desk incident, we have 
acted too slowly and irresponsibly in our dealings with the 
Administration. As of this writing, almost two weeks after 
the story made the TARTAN and three weeks after most 
people first found out about the shut-down, the giant peti
tion at B towers elevator is still hanging, doing nothing ex
cept col lectin p araffiti. It is probably the joke of the year at 
Warner Hall, and understandably so. The longer it hangs, 
as a tribute to our laziness, the more our credibility is 
reduced.
Students must also be reprimanded for their poor attend
ance at weekly Senate meetings. Senate is one of the few 
really effective means we have to let the Administration 
know what were thinking and what we want. Dean Swank 
attends every meeting, and he is one of our best and reliable 
links to the rest of the Administration. It is foolish not to 
take advantage of such a set-up.
It was also foolish that not one student attended President 
Cyert's speech on the.state of the University. Given last Tues
day at 3:30 in the Wherrett Room, it was listed in the Cam
pus Calendar as open to the campus community. The content 
of the speech should have been of some interest to at least 
some students. Too bad we passed up the chance to hear our 
president speak. Too bad we passed up the chance to impress 
the President and faculty with our sincerity and concern about CMU. Too bad we didnt even use the meeting for its 
potential shock valuea large student tournout, or any kind 
at all, would have left the faculty and Administration dumb
founded.
The verdict, then, after three weeks of classes, is this: the 
Administration is guilty of withholding information and lying 
to the students; and students are guilty of displaying apathy 
and misusing the channels available to them.
There is no reason why this pattern of deceit and indiffer
ence should continue for the rest of the year. But all of us, 
Administration and students alike, must change our ways 
now if we are to make this a successful year for the Univer
sity, an enjoyable year for the students, and a productive 
year for everyone.
Sherry Siegel 
Acting Co-Editor-in-Chief
Letters
g7bb 97bb8, pCt21i -27M1 
un7N82U
Recently (just now), Bill Dillon 
was named co-winner of the first 
annual Scobell Sur Prize (not to 
be confused with a famous Peace 
Prize). The other co-winner of the 
award was a very large group con
sisting of all others connected 
with the remodeling and reno
vation of the Scobell housing 
facility. The committee respon
sible for the selection of winners 
was a diverse group of distinguished 
guests and students; none of 
whom choose to vote, in accor
dance with CMU tradition and the 
fact that no one could hear the 
call for a vote above the noise 
of construction.
The Scobell Sur Prize was 
awarded to Mr. Dillon, et al. for 
showing superior efficiency in cre
ating utter chaos. In spite of 
damning headlines, such as Sco
bell is ready (TARTAN 9/20),
and assurances of immediate com
pletion, the job was still unfin
ished as of this writing (9/21). 
With total disregard for estab
lished deadlines (originally early 
August, later set at 9/16),  Mr. 
Dillon, et al. continued their 
fight against student habitation of 
Scobell.
The measures taken by Mr. 
Dillon, et al. in their crusade 
against student invasion were, and 
still could be, glorious to behold. 
Examples:
No water fountains.
No permanent shower fixtures, 
No temperature control for 
temporary showers,
No hall telephones (installed 
9/14),
Exposed electrical wiring from 
old lighting fixtures,
Inoperable sanitary facilities 
(now fixed),
Fumes from painting (still in
complete),
Noise of construction, and 
the relocations of students to
other housing facilities. Add to 
this the normal and abnormal 
problems with individual rooms, 
and the thoroughness of the 
award winners becomes obvious.
To Mr. Dillon: Your award is 
a no-expenses-paid weekend for 
26 (yourself, 4 roaches, 3 ants, 
and 18 termites) in your choice 
of the newly-created luxury 
rooms in the basement of Scobell.
v ps8S1bb y1i7n1,N
P.S. Of course it is unfair to single 
out Mr. Bill Dillon for this award, 
but perhaps this will prompt him 
to find the causes of this mess and 
prevent a reoccurrence.
v PC211h51t2 -12i31sN7o1 
un7N82U
Certain names or stereotypes 
given to people evoke conditioned 
emotional responses which can be
TARTAN
Acting Editors-In-Chief:
Acting Managing Editor 
Acting News Editor 
Business Manager 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Sherry Siegel 
Jeff Zaslow
Brenda Reed 
Saul Carliner 
Ellen Silverman 
Casey Childs 
Tom Binnie 
V. R. V. Ramanan
Production Assistants: Bryan King, Gary Walzer, Linda Rian, Beverly Marshall, and Thom Brown
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo50, (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Off ices: Skibo 52; (412)682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 7
more Letters
detrimental to the initiation of 
active intercourse between said 
people. This is not a text book 
definition, but is rather a con
clusion that can be drawn by ob
serving ourselves, the students 
here at CMU. This is my fourth 
year here, and this fall I make a 
plea for the unification of our 
campus.
The past three years have de
monstrated to me the power of 
stereotypes as they split up so
ciety. Frat boys are called ani
mals, various fruits and vege
tables are labelled and sorted, 
architects are often described as 
squinty eyed masochists with 
flourescent lightbulb tans, and 
anyone who knows his computer 
account number is a nerd. But 
where are the individuals? Is 
society just a bunch of nonrela
ted groups, or is there more?
The unification of our campus 
as a single society, (not student 
government type unification 
which is completely different 
from this subject), would un
doubtedly have many benefits. 
Many of us chose to attend this 
school because of its relatively 
small size. This small size is the 
single greatest attribute available 
in helping us attain this goal. I see 
our campus society as a great 
diverse family, with many dif
ferent ideas and interests. But a 
common bond should exist and 
transcend all the banal sterotypes that divide us. Here we 
all Jive.and work, , ,rr . , w
We-all spend hours and flours 
a day, trying to make our expe
rience at CMU a worthwhile one. 
Drama, engineering, science, 
liberal arts, fine arts, men women, 
commuters, greeks, professors,. . . 
everyone! One way to help make 
our brief stay, (although it seems
like an eternity to freshmen), all 
the more enjoyable and worth
while, is for our own society to 
be fun, exciting and extremely 
meaningful.
Around this time, people are set
tling into their respective niches. 
Freshmen begin to know who 
their friends are going to be, and 
upper classmen remain content 
with their old ones. Why must 
this be so? Look around you! See 
how many potentially different 
and interesting people youve 
never even met. Now is the time! 
Here at school we have a perfect 
opportunity to mix. (Later when 
youre off in a job, it is much 
more difficult.)
My suggestion for this campus 
is to make friends with ourselves. 
Let us form our big family. Weve 
been collectively thrown together 
into this big pot ... let us not 
separate like oil and water. In
stead, let us mix and exchange 
our various backgrounds and ido
logies. In this way, we, as indivi
dual products of this institution, 
will be more aware of ourselves 
and of the world around us. 
Lets make our campus society, 
Come alive! Make a friend to
day ... I will.
ctd1 k7NCC1bn N8 1,im21 ,8 
iN1218Ne31i tNNtsC1n N8 NC1 Ne31 
8< 312i8, kC8 dte k27N1 NC7i 
i82N 8< 1n7N827tbI
P/g r2e <82 T1b3
vlli f-. r,v ( * *
un7N82U I A A
Im writing to voice my agree
ment with the girl who doesnt 
like what she sees. Many guys 
here at the Tapa Kega Bru House 
are heavily into alcohol and drug 
abuse, and I think its high time
something was done about it. My 
roommate, for instance, has spent 
the last five days locked in the 
john injecting Iron City into his 
ulnar nerve. If thats not alcohol 
abuse, I dont know what is.
He didnt come out until we 
promised him a dozen mescaline 
suppositories, and when he found 
out that we really didnt have any, 
he grabbed Mrs. Cinzani, our 
housemother, and threatened to 
cut her throat with a dull knife 
stolen from Skibo. Right now hes 
locked himself in the john again 
with Mrs. Cinzani, and all we can 
hear is muffled whimpering and 
moaning.
This is just one case history 
Many TKB brothers are in even 
worse condition, ranging from the 
midly disturbed to the completely 
wigged out. Weve been having 
a little trouble keeping the house 
clean since weve lost the use of 
the john, and were in desperate 
need of someone wholl come and 
shovel out the closet. If youre 
interested, drop in. And remem
ber Pledge Night is October 31!
v g28NC12 
Pt3t /1at g2m R2tN T8mi1 
p8d12kC121h8,hrtd3miA -v 
OfwO.
r8,i12otN78, rbmS
un7N82U
This letter is in response to a 
letter in the last TARTAN before 
summer vacation. That letter was 
entitled We Need a New Club 
in which the author expressed the 
need for a conservation club. Such 
a club does exist on campus. The 
Carnegie-Mellon Explorers Club 
sponsors conservation projects.
The author said, Actions of 
the club could include, legislative 
lobbying, conservation projects,
enjoyment weekends, etc. The 
Explors already accomplish 
those things mentioned as shown 
in their following activities.
1. They lobbied to preserve the 
Seneca Rocks area from commer
cialization.
2. The club is now in the pro
cess of blazing a trail connec
ting the Baker Trail with the 
Laurel Highlands Trail.
3. Explorers helped save the 
Cranberry backcountry from strip 
mining.
4. Conservation practices are 
taught and employed on their 
expeditions.
Although Explorers Club does 
not specialize in conservation pro
jects they are still active in this 
area. The author was correct 
because there is a need for an or
ganization concerned with the 
preservation of the environment, 
but the club already exists.
O. M.
v B88n -87,N
un7N82U
Id like to say a thing or two 
in response to the guy who wrote 
the letter Take It With A Grain 
of Salt. If all he cares about in a 
girl is that she have a pretty face 
and that she behave as humbly as 
her place and class in society dic
tates, then no wonder no one 
will pay attention to him!
c8N EmiN NC1 <b73 i7n1 8< t f y-D
un7N827tb r8,i7iN1,se 
un7N82U
An editorial policy which al
lows for the printing of a lengthy article on plagiarism one week 
and the sale of advertising space 
to Educational Systems, pur
veyors of ready-made term papers, 
the next week seems inconsistent
at best.
The editor of any university 
newspaper, moreover, who sells 
space to a business the goals of 
which are antiethical to those of 
all academic institutions ought to 
take a long look at that policy. 
Just as several major Eastern 
newspapers have recently discon
tinued advertising products 
deemed by the publishers to be 
detrimental to the fabric of the 
society they serve, the TARTAN 
ought to act responsibly toward 
the CMU community and stop 
running the Educational Systems 
ad.
Trevor Drake 
M.F.A. '78
Rally 'Round!
Editor:
Ive lived at CMU for three 
weeks and Im beginning to hate 
it.
The garbage trucks wake me up 
every morning at 5. One day 
when it was cold there was no 
heat, and I froze. The next day 
the heat came on, and I fried. 
Skibo must get a special deal on 
Crisco. I think its the main
ingredient of every meal. So on 
and so forth.
I complain about these things 
a lot, and it seems like everyone 
has their own campus-life horror 
story. But maybe Im wrong.
Maybe the good qualities of
Housing, Food Service, and Secur
ity far outweigh their faults.
So my proposal is this; lets 
flood the TARTAN with letters. 
Send in your tale of Shining 
Service Rendered or Traumatic 
Experience Endured and weU 
see what the score is.
Wants the Big Picture
ANNOUNCEMENTS
scholarships awards prizes
R211 :,iN7NmN1 <82 p1,782iU t33b7stN78,
deadline October 21.
On November 6-11, approximately 30 
very special college seniors will participate 
in the Direct Mail/Marketing Educational 
Foundation Senior Collegiate Institute at 
the Hitching Post Hotel in Cheyenne, Wy
oming as the guests of the Unicover Cor
poration. The students, selected from sev
eral hundred applicants, will be chosen by 
a panel of specialists in the direct market
ing field through a major advertising, mar
keting. journalism or a related major. Jud
ges consider articulateness, thoughtfulness, 
imagination, and a potential for success in 
the field. Applications must be submitted 
by October 21, 1977.
The purpose of the Senior Collegiate 
Institutea five day, total immersion, 
thoroughly practical seminar in direct re
sponse marketingis to introduce students 
to the latest techniques for designing and 
developing effective direct mail campaigns. 
Instructors and speakers for this year's 
Fall Institute are: Roy Ljungren, Direc
tor Corporate Advertising and Sales Pro
motion, NCR Corporation; Rose Harper, 
President, The Kleid Company; Steve 
Allen, President, Market Compilation; 
Elliot Adams, President, Tyme Letter 
Service, Steve Bach, Management Consul
tant-Entrepreneur; Bob Stone, President,
Stone & Adler, Inc.; John Yeck, Partner, 
Yeck Brothers Group; Henry R. Hoke, Jr., 
Publisher, Hoke Communications, Inc., 
Robert F. DeLay, President, Direct Mail/ 
Marketing Association; and Jim Stetler, 
American Express Company.
Unicover Corporation, of Cheyenne, 
the world's largest facility devoted to items 
for stamp collectors, will conduct a tour of 
the typical working day of the total 
from graphics designers, printing, mailing 
and fulfillment, to quality control. James 
A. Helzer, President, and Myron Cooper, 
V.P. Marketing and staff will lead the tour.
Traditionally, more than half of the 
institute graduates pursue careers in the 
direct marketing industry.
The Direct Mail/Marketing Educational 
Foundation is a non-profit foundation es
tablished in I966 to improve educational 
activities in colleges and universities regard
ing direct mail advertising and other appli
cations of direct marketing throughout the 
various communications media. The 
Foundation is located at 6 East 43rd 
Street, New York, N.Y. 10017. For fur
ther informationin New York call 
212/689-4977: Richard Dematteis-orLaurie Spar.
v N8Ntb 8< $15,000 7i tot7btSb1 N8 e8m,a
composers in the 26th annual BMI Awards 
to Student Composers competition spon
sored by Broadcast Music, Inc., a perform
ing rights licensing organization.
The 1977-78 BMI Awards competition is 
open to student composers who are citi
zens or permanent residents of the Western 
Hemisphere and are enrolled in accredited
secondary schools, colleges and conserva
tories, or engaged in private study with re
cognized and established teachers any
where in the world. Entrants must be 
under 26 years of age on December 31, 
I977. No limitations are established as 
to instrumentations, stylistic considera
tions, or length of works submitted. Stu
dents may enter no more than one compos
ition, which need not have been composed 
during the year of entry.
-C7b73 D8227i :,s82382tN1n Cti t,,8m,s1n
its ninth annual Marketing/Communica
tions Competition for College Students. 
The purpose of the competition is to pro
vide students with a practical and realistic 
business project, bringing them into 
direct contact with the business commun
ity.
A $1,000 grant will be awarded to the 
winning entries at both the undergraduate 
and graduate level; runners-up will receive 
$500 grants, and other finalists in the 
undergraduate and graduate categories will 
receive special merit awards. Entries may 
deal with any aspect of the broad areas of 
marketing/communications related to 
Philip Morris Incorporated, its operating 
companies or any of its non-tobacco pro
ducts.
Student chapters of professional soci
eties. regular classes or ad hoc committees 
of no less than five students at the under
graduate level and no less than two at 
the graduate level under the counsel of 
full-time faculty members may submit 
proposals.
In addition to the grants, two student 
representatives and the faculty advisor 
from each of the winning and runner-up 
committees will be invited to be Philip 
Morris guests at corporate headquarters 
in New York or at another corporate loca
tion to discuss their proposals with Philip 
Morris executives.
For additional information, please con
tact Marketing/Communications Competi
tion, Philip Morris Incorporated, I00 Park 
Avenue, New York, New York 10017.
classified
Ht,N1nU p1s21Nt2e ,11n1n Se iNmn1,N 82L
ganization (WRCT) for typing & taking 
minutes at meetings Wages negotiable. 
Leave name, address & phone number at 
Skibo Information Desk.
-1aaeU PC211i71iW 6I t,n /I
c11n1nU H82l0pNmne iNmn1,Ni <82 rt2112
Services & Placement Office. Must have 
A.M. hours available. Inquire Room 
19 WH.
pN27,a 3bte12i Fo78bt 82 s1bb8 kt,N1n <82
chamber ensemble. Non-music majors 
preferred. Call Mickey, 521-6425 or Jeff,
682-9950.
gtSei7NN7,a 7, de C8d1I pm7221b T7bbI
421-8959.
rC7bn rt21A de C8d1 7, pm7221b T7bbI v<L
ternoons, Monday, Tuesday and one el
ective 521 4859
g1tab1 3m33eA z k11li 8bnA free N8 a88n
home. Learns fast. 683-9307.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS&.CLASSIFIEDADS _
9uv9V:cuU c44c Hu9cup9v5x
rbtii7<71n 2tN1U %OI$$ <82 1o12e Of k82niI 
v,,8m,s1d1,Ni t21 RyuuI
general
PC1 <72iN N2t7,7,a i1ii78, <82 -112 T1b3
trainees will be held on Tuesday, Septem
ber 27, at 7 P.M. It will be in the Peer 
Help office,. 150-A Baker Hall. Anyone 
interested in being on the Peer Help staff 
this year should attend.
PC1 v2N <82 -tiitot,N r8dd7NN11 k7bb
accept artists' original paintings on Sun
day, October 9, from 2:00-4:00, P.M. in 
the Assembly Hall of North Hills Passavant 
Hospital.
Those paintings selected are exhibited 
throughout the hostpital for 90 days. Pass
avant receives a percentage of the sale price 
of the paintings sold as a result of this ex
hibitions.
Proceeds will be applied to the Art for 
Passavant Committee's $25,000 pledge to 
the hospital's Outpatient Surgical Facility.
For further information, artists should 
contact the Auxiliary-Volunteer Office, 
366-I000 or 931-3840, extension 310.
PC1 r4GcPy5 9vcru vc9 p4cB
SOCIETY OF PITTSBURGH invites 
Carnegie-Mellon students, staff and faculty 
to its dances. No admission charge. 
English and American traditional dances. 
Most dances taught. Sunday evenings, 
7:00 to 9:00 p.m., Room 524 Schenley 
Hall (Pitt Student Union).
y1d1dS12 Stsl N8 kC1, e8m k121 t
high school senior looking at colleges? 
You probably could have used some help 
from an older and much wiser college stu
dent. The Admissions Office is asking pro
spective students to visit the campus for 
a "Sleeping Bag Campaign." These stu
dents will be exploring the campus, its 
faculty, and its students. We'd like you to 
help by offering your dorm floor, time, 
and conversation. Drop in to Admissions, 
Warner Hall, first floor, to volunteer. The 
dates are October 3, 4, and 23, 24, and 
November 13, 14, and 20, 21.
vnd7ii78,i Cti 7,o7N1n 328i31sN7o1
students to campus for an overnight visit. 
Volunteer to be a host. Share your meals, 
your classes, and your CMU experiences 
with a high school senior. The first of four 
campaigns is on October 2, 3. Stop by 
Admissions (Warner Hall, first floor) to 
volunteer.
g72NC27aCNA t, 1d12a1,se 3 1a,t,se i12L
vice will begin training sessions for new 
volunteers on Wednesday, September 21, 
at the Birthright office, 4612 Bayard St., 
Oakland, at 7:45 p.m.
Birthright assists the distressed pregnant 
woman in time of crisis by supportive 
listening and exploration of alternatives to 
abortion.
Volunteers are welcomed for service on 
the telephone hot-line, public relations, 
funding, operations or speakers' bureau. 
For more information, call Birthright 
621-1988.
H1n,1inteA p13N1dS12 wYA YU$$ -DA
7500 Science Hall. Richard Harry Medlin, 
Associate Professor of Architecture, Uni
versity of Arizona, "Lightweight Struc
tures'' Thursday, September 29, 10:30 
AM, 7500 Science Hall. Richard M. Gensert, visitng Andrew Mellon Professor of 
Architecture, "Structure, Form and His
tory." Friday, September 30, 3:30 PM, 
GSIA Auditorium. Lev Zetlin, Distin
guished Professor of Engineering, Pratt 
Institute, Consulting Engineer, "The Im
pact of Today's Economy of Technology, 
on Innovations in Engineering and Con
struction Systems." Seminar: 1:30-3:30, 
"Structure and Form," Laboratory, 207 G 
Porter Hall.
:,N12 qt2i7Ne rC27iN7t, R1bb8kiC73'P8d
Trevathon will give the last talk of his 
series on God, "God the Holy Spirit." The 
meeting will be at 7:00 in Room 45. Time 
will be provided for questions, and small 
group discussions. All welcome.
vg r8<<11C8mi1 321i1,Ni i7,a12 B1,1
Corbin, Saturday, October 1 at 9:30 pm. 
It is free to all CMU students & refresh
ments will be served.
:,N12 qt2i7Ne rC27iN7t, R1bb8kiC73
Tom Trevathon will give the last talk of 
his series on God, "God the Holy Spirit." 
The meeting will be at 7:00 in Room 45. 
Time will be provided for questions, and 
small group discussions. All welcome.
rC27iN7t, y8sl k7NC yt,ne pN8,1C7bb
and Elan, Sunday, October 2 at 
2:30 p.m.. Soldiers and Sailors
Memorial Hall across from Pitt, 
tickets $5.00 at the door, $4.00 
in advance from many Christian 
bookstores.
rt2,1a71 :,iN7NmN1 k7bb C8iN NC1 k82liC83i
and opening sessions of the fall confer
ence of the American Association of Muse
um Trustees Committee. The three day 
conference will begin October 13 with a 
tour of the museum of Art, Carnegie Insti
tute.
A key theme in the conference agenda 
is "Discovery." The participants will be 
encouraged to discover Pittsburgh, its 
architecture, art and cultural life. The 
conference will focus on discovering new 
ways to develop programs and fund-raising 
approaches from internal and external 
perspectives.
The meeting, open to all museum trus
tees, involves a registration fee. For addi
tional information contact Mrs. James A. 
Fisher, c/o Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania I52I3.
PC1 -7NNiSm2aC :,N12,tN78,tb p1271iA t 328L
gram of major biennial exhibitions, will be 
inaugurated on October 28, 1977 with a 
retrospective exhibition of Pierre Alechinsky's works at the Museum of Art, Carne
gie Institute, Pittsburgh.
Supported by The A. W. Mellon Educa
tional and Charitable Trust, the Series 
awarded the artist selected by a distin
guished Awards Advisory Committee the 
$50,000 Andrew W. Mellon Prize, which 
may be shared if two artists are chosen.
The International Series opens October 
28, 1977 and continues through January
8, 1978. After leasving Pittsburgh it will 
travel to the Art Gallery of Toronto.
PC211 Dgv vnd7ii78, R82mdi t21 S17,a
offered as a service of the Graduate Man
agement Admission Council to assist peo
ple interested in learning more about 
graduate management education. Pros
pective applicants and admissions person
nel will be able to talk together about 
admission procedures, curriculum offer
ings, and career opportunities in manage
ment. In addition, workshops are sched
uled during which admission directors, 
placement officers, and recent MBA 
graduates will address the question: "What 
difference can an MBA make?"
Each forum is to be held on three con
secutive days:
New York City, Roosevelt Hotel
Oct.27-29 
Chicago, Holiday Inn Mart Plaza
Nov. 17-19 
San Francisco, Hyatt on Union Square 
Dec. 1-3
Hours are from noon to 7:30p.m. on 
Thursday and Friday, and from 10:00 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m. on Saturday. Admission is 
free.
v,e8,1 7,N8 -tNN7 pd7NCA gtmn1bt721A y7dL
baud, the Symbolist painters, or Romain 
Brooks, please write to L.L., P.O. Box 
5D3,1060 Morewood Ave.
H1n,1inteA p13N1dS12 wYA YU$$ -DA
7500 Science Hall. Richard Harry Medlin, 
Associate Professor of Architecture, Uni
versity of Arizona, "Lightweight Struc
tures" Thursday, September 29, 10:30 
AM, 7500 Science Hall. Richard M. Gensert, visiting Andrew Mellon Professor of 
Architecture, "Structure, Form and His
tory." Friday, September 30, 3:30 PM, 
GSIA Auditorium. Lev Zetlin, Distin
guished Professor of Engineering, Pratt 
Institute, Consulting Engineer, "The Im
pact of Today's Economy of Technology, 
on Innovations in Engineering and Con
struction Systems." Seminar: 1:30-3:30, 
"Structure and Form," Laboratory, 207 G 
Porter Hall.
*u,N283e 7i ,8k i1bb7,a y:-h4RR S88liI
They cost only $3.99 + tax, and will save 
you money on food and convenience 
items all round the area.
OhY H82liC83 psC1nmb1'431, N8
anyone interested in theatre, its applica
tion to the learning process, and to the de
velopment of personal creativity. FAIR
FIELD UNIVERSITY WILL GIVE ONE 
GRADUATE CREDIT PER WEEKEND. 
The tuition cost including material for 
each 3-day weekend is $55 non-credit or 
$II0 credit. The Workshops will be held at 
the Howard Johnson Conference Center, 
Milford, Ct. Hours will be 7:00-11:00 
p.m. Friday, 1:30-4:30 Saturday, 9:30- 
3:30 Sunday, with an additional one-hour 
seminar Saturday and Sunday for credit 
participants.
Room and board are available at an addtional $47 per person double occupancy/ 
$60 single room (includes 2 nights, 2 full 
course dinners, 2 continental breakfast, use 
of heated pool). Room rates without meal 
plan are $28 per person double occupancy/ 
$41 single occupancy. j.
Space in each Workshop is limited; we 
ask that you enclose a $10 deposit per; 
Workshop (non-refundable) if you wish a 
place held for you. The balance is due 30 
days before the date of the Workshop (s) 
in which you enroll. For more information 
The TARTAN.
68C, -I r21s7,1A 91t, 8< NC1 r8bb1a1 8<
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 5:00, in 260 Baker Hall.
Pk8 ,1k 1ZC7S7Ni'8,1 8< 327d7N7o1 dtili
and the winners of the Natural World pho
tography contest will be on display at Car
negie Museum of Natural History, Carnegie 
Institute beginning September 20.
The first exhibit consisting of seven primative masks is displayed in the Informa
tion and Orientation Center.
The Changing Exhibits Gallery has on 
display the winners of the Leonard S. 
Mudge Environmental Education Natural 
World Photography Contest.
The winning photos will be on display 
through November 15.
clubs
PC1 B12dt, PtSb1 d11Ni 1o12e Pm1inte 7,
the Kiltie Cafe, lower Skibo, from 11:30? 
Bring a lunch and practice your German. 
Look for the table with the German flag.
PC1 R21,sC PtSb1 k7bb d11N 1o12e H1nL
nesday in Skibo Cafeteria downstairs. 
Look for or listen to the group of students 
from whom French sounds seem to 
emanate. It's them. Starting, presumably, 
around l:30 p.m.
PC1 rhDG q8bb1eStbb rbmS k7bb C8bn 7Ni
first meeting of the year on Thursday, 
Sept. 29, at 7:00 P.M. in the main gym. 
Anyone interested in recreational or inter
collegiate volleyball should attend. All 
members of the campus community are 
invited.
PTu r:P rTv-Puy 4R PTu p4r:uP5
OF WOMEN ENGINEERS welcomes 
present and prospective members to its 
second meeting, Sunday, October 2, at 
7:00 p.m. in Science Hall 5427. 
SpeakerwwHT'--discuss her role as a voman 
in a traditionally male profession. For 
those who attended the first meeting, 
please have slogan entries in by this date. 
(Campus mail address: Marilyn Schnell, 
2C4 Morewood Gardens)
Special TGIF coming this Friday!
w Rochelle Thompson 
^ with .
Harbor Lights
9:30 and 11:00 PM in the Grill
For Free Brochure  Write
THE COMPUTER-AGE 
DATING SERVICE
DATAMATIC 
P.0. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, 
PENNSYLVANIA 15213
TARTANELECTION
On Wednesday, September 28, 1977 at 8:00 PM in Room 11 Skibo,the 
TARTAN will hold elections for the positions of Editor-in-Chief and News 
Editor.
Candidates for E-in-C must be members of the TARTAN staff. A mem
ber of the TARTAN staff is anyone who has written two articles in the 
last four issues of the TARTAN, or anyone whose name is listed in the 
masthead. Only members of the TARTAN staff are eligible to vote.
The position of News Editor is open to the entire CMU community. 
All staff members should attend.

---------------------------------------------------

V'///,z//j/jri7'///// //// // m///m w/,./'/.//////'/,//' ///////// /////////s' ////////// Tmr7.vz//sr/r1/// /////w//.*/'/t/w
w///mr.fy/////m Mf//m r:-/, v/> mr/
PEOPLE YOU 
OUGHT TO
SEPTEMBER 27, 1977/ ISSUE 13: PEOPLE YOU OUGHT TO KNOW

---------------------------------------------------

"SN
Page 10TARTANSeptember 27, 1977
Hal Aqua ? 
Continued...
Last Tuesday the campus was introduced to 
Hal Aqua. The following day, Wednesday, I re
ceived a letter from Denver, Colorado. I ripped it 
open as if it was from a lover. It was from Hal 
Aqua. I'd written to him eight days earlier. His 
letter read:
By all means feel free to use my composite pic
tures. / never pass up a chance to see my face in 
print, no matter what the reason. Here's the only 
picture / could find, taken last Spring...use it if 
you wish.
I'd appreciate getting a copy of the TARTAN 
issue.
Cheers 
Hal Aqua
I'd already taken the liberty to write the story 
and use the pictures without getting his ok, but 
it was reassuring to learn that he didn't mind.
I mailed him two copies of last week's FOLIO, 
and I'm hoping to hear from him again to find 
out his reaction. Maybe he'll answer some of my 
questions about his years at CMU.
TARTAN FOLIO
SEPTEMBER 27, 1977/ISSUE 13:
PEOPLE YOU OUGHT TO KNOW
EDITOR JEFFREY ZASLOW
ART DIRECTOR ANDREW EPSTEIN
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH
CONTRIBUTING ARTIST MORRY BRENNER
RICK KUBINSKI 
BILL TISHERMAN 
ALISON CORNISH 
PATTI-HARTLE 
GINNY BEYER 
JUDY PROBER
K.J. RAVITTS 
DAN LIVAK 
DAVID MONGEAU 
SAUL CARLINER 
DAVE SHEWARD 
MIKE LEIBENPERBER 
NAOMIBRAFF
VSYou just
Why My Brother Left Home
by David Mongeau
I grow sad, no bitter, trying to know 
why he left home;
since big families always have reasons for 
sorrow.
Contemplate crumbling Camelot 
now fallen
from too much winter and blood.
We might consider the alienists 
who sterilized minds 
yet found only 
subconscience, psyche, id.
But mother and father,
protectors of their embryonic corpses,
abort explanations and insist
that we cannot know;
and Freudians can guess
and doctors can concur
though they are wrong
in the end.
But let me argue
that there is a buried breathing answer
in some family bible
under some family stone
that I will dust off
and overturn
to discover some worthless root 
and a heart to preserve it.
Never pure,
most likely unacceptable 
for sharing
perhaps senseless in its 
logic
yet forever 
a justification.
missed him...
by Saul Carliner
Last weekend, I wracked my brains out trying 
to think of a person I ought to know, so I could 
write this great article, see, and make a name for 
myself (it's good I've got one to start with). I 
really tried, but I know everybody I ought to (or 
at least I think I do). Then I began to think of all 
the people I never got a chance to meet, because 
"I just missed him.
It hit me last Saturday, at noon, to be exact. I 
was working on another TARTAN article which 
the New York Times had an interest in also, and I 
was afforded an invitation to co-interview with 
the TIMES reporter assigned to the same story. 
The session began at 10:30, but since I had a test 
scheduled then until 11:30, I planned to come 
late. Someone assured me that they'd still be 
chattering away when I came.
Wow, this was my great opportunity; the ama
teur (but polished, mind you) reporter, hitting 
the big time with a capital T, the TIMES; the big 
cheese of the industry. But it figured, the test 
didn't end till noon, and by the time I got to the 
appointed place, there was only one person there, 
shaking his head, You missed him."
It's the story of my life. All of the interesting 
people I want to meet leave before I've had a 
chance to meet them. In ninth grade, when the 
POW's were first released, one POW came to 
visit a seventh grade class in my school, and since 
I knew the teacher of the class, I got an invitation 
to sit in on his talk when he came (no one knew 
when that would be). Well, the day came for the 
visit, and I rushed to the teacher as soon as I 
heard. She was very kind (that witch) when she
told me she forgot to get me, and then said, "I'm 
sorry, you just missed him."
I went on a cross country tour when I was fif
teen, and the final highlight of the tour was a 
talk with a U.S. Senator. The session that year 
was with Senator Talmaudge of Georgia, of the 
then Watergate Committee; When the tour leaders 
scheduled the talk, they figured that the investi
gation would last months, and the senator would 
be in town throughout the summer. Well, two 
days before the presence of the White House 
tapes was revealed, the committee completed its 
business. So the senator went home on vacation. 
When my group entered his empty office, and 
waited an hour and a half for him to show, a 
janitor told us, "You just missed him."
I don't have to go as far as that. Last year, a 
relative of mine gave the family's one and only 
cousins' party. This was my chance to see how a 
Jewish family adjusted to life in a converted 
church, and meet my cousin, an ex-finalist in the 
Mr. America contest. I had to go for freshman ori
entation that weekend. So I never met my allAmerican cousin. I missed him.
I guess I could just go on and on. But the 
people I know, they're better than nothing; most 
of the time, at least. Wait. I was supposed to do 
something with a friend of mine a couple of 
weeks ago. And I went to his house, and his sister 
came to the door, "He just went bobbing for 
french fries with Susie. I'm awfully sorry, but yoi 
just missed him."
But then my friend's sister tried to make it up 
to me, so I didn't really miss him after all:

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 11
On the art of making it BIG 
or else making Children
by J. Zas/ow
Ron left the CMU drama department at the 
end of last year. He was just an inexperienced 
freshman actor who suddenly got the urge to 
"go west", "to make it", "to be discovered", 
"to become a star", "to make a name for him
self". Quote - Unquote.
So he left.
He shook my hand, grabbed his girlfriend of 
eight months and over I80 nights, and went 
to Hollywood. Of course, I told him he was a 
fool for doing it. And he was foolish. But since 
he left last May, I've been mulling over his whole 
situation, and I've become as downright pipedreamish as he was.
Now I tell myself;
"If in ten years, there's a list made of CMU's 
most famous drop outs, my friend Ron will be 
on it."
And I'm starting to believe it. Because he was 
a good actor. Maybe a little over-macho, but he 
had all the qualities of a sex-symbol. What if 
he makes it? What if...?
Suddenly I'm hit by this fantasy. It can attack 
me any time, usually when I'm studying or 
feeling sorry that I'm in this CMU rat race. My 
mind will drift to Beverly Hills where I'm visiting 
Ron. Only I can't get into the house because 
all these reporters are blocking the gate to the
estate. One of them yells;
"I understand that you were the best friend 
of CMU's most famous drop out."
And I say, "Yes, when I was a freshman in 
college, I was."
And then they demand that I tell them as much 
as I can, because "the world wants to know 
everything about Ron's college days!"
I'm still studying here at CMU. I'm sitting at 
my desk, in my room, on this campus. But my
Lester Marcowitz
mind is out in Hollywood, and it won't return 
until I answer these reporters' questions.
"What was 'The Star' like in college?" I'm 
asked.
"Can we call him Ron, because that's how I 
knew him. Star is a bit formal." I say.
_ But they refuse to call him Ron.
"What was your first impression of 'Americas 
Throb'?" one yells. And then they all yell the
CONTINUED ON PAGE 15
by Mike Liebensperger
(Exclusive FOLIO Interview with God)
-whirrr--*click*(get this recorder running and... 
ah, there it goes.)
"Well, readers, it took a lot of hard-nosed in
vestigative reporting, but finally, here I am in the 
back booth of Bergman's Pharmacy in Pensauken 
New Jersey, and hoo boy, do I have a scoop! I he 
exclusive FOLIO interview with none other than 
the Omnipotent One Himself, the All-knowing 
Creator of the Universe and Life as We Know It, 
Lester Marcowitz. How's it going, Mr. Marcowitz, 
Sir?"
"Pretty good, Mike."
"Your Mighty Omniscience, I can't tell You 
what a thrill it is for me as a journalist to inter
view someone Who has been everywhere in the 
universe simultaneously since the beginning of 
Eternity."
"No, that's wrong, Mike. I've been right here 
at Bergmann's all along. And call me Les, will 
you? That Omnipotency crap makes me tense."
"Sure, uh, Les. So You run the entire universe 
from right here at Bergmann's CB in the delivery 
truck out in the alley."
"I see the phone isn't ringing right now. Don't 
you get many prayers?"
"Uh, yeah, well, the phone's been out of order 
for a while, but I am getting a lot of postcards, ya 
know?"
"I'll bet you are. Could we see one?"
"Sure. You should be particularly interested in 
this one-it's from a lonely C-MU chemical en
gineering major. He wants either an all female 
class of '82 or an acute outbreak of male homo
sexuality, in order to equalize theguy-girl ratio.' 
"Uh, couldn't that be arranged?"
"Hell, no. Listen, if I put more girls on the 
C-MU campus, who would want to attend Pitt? 
What do you want me to do, kill off an immortal
football legend? What kind of cretin are you?"
"I see your point, but still...."
"Don't fret, my boy, Remember, you're getting 
the best engineering education money can buy."
"Small consolation. It's been a month since I 
had a good piece of--"
"Stop! You know I don't appreciate that kind 
of language."
"I was going to say veal cutlet."
"Oh. Well, there's nothing I can do about that. 
Food contracts are the responsibility of the 
Prince of Darkness."
"You mean...?"
"Yes. Dean Kaile."
"You must be kidding. I thought he had some
thing to do with C IT/M IS?"
Only during the daylight hours. When the sun 
goes down...."
Funny, he seemed perfectly normal to me."
"Only because you've never had scheduling 
problems. Listen, I've gotta be going. I've gotta 
drive downtown and pick up my laundry. Any
thing else you want to know before I leave?"
"Just one more thing, Les. Will the Steelers 
make it to the Superbow! this year?"
"No chance. Take my advice and put your 
money on Tampa Bay."
"You must be joking. Tampa Bay!? Why?"
"Foi a number of reasons. Their impenetrable 
offensive line, their stonewall defense, and their 
lightening-swift running attack all influence 
my prediction. But mainly, Tampa'II win because 
they'll be the only pro team left on the face 
of the earth come November."
"Are You hinting at something, Les?"
"Yeah. Buy into Western Florida real estate. 
While there's still time/.' *dick*---whirrr

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-September 27, 1977
Alferd E. 
Packer
by Bill Tisherman
(From the American Cannibalists' Association)
Hail to the devoted followers of Alferd E. 
Packer for standing tall and preventing those 
bloodthirsty bureaucrats in the Agricultural De
partment from shamefully tagging the name of 
this genuine American folk hero on a Greasy 
Spoon Cafeteria!
How dare those bloat-brained palsies try to 
taint the name of dear Alferd, a hero in the truest 
sense of the word. Everyone knows that Alferd 
was simply upholding the theory of laissez-faire 
in a free competitive market. As Alferd said long 
ago: "When the going gets tough, the tough get 
munching!"
Three cheers for freedom of eats! (And if you 
don't like it, I'll bite your arm off!)
(From an observant college professor)
As it appears to this writer, there are some 
gross discrepancies in the now-famous Packer 
legend.
First of all, Mr. Packer obviously does not 
know how to spell his first name. Secondly, the 
presiding judge from Lake City ought to see a 
psychiatrist and/or a speech therapist. Thirdly, in 
Mr. Packer's defense, the fact that the alleged 
cannibalistic act was done without ketchup, salt, 
A-1 sauce, or Hamburger Helper is a noteworthy 
achievement in itself. Fourthly, a plaque honoring 
Packer would be more deserved in the Oakland 
Raiders' locker room than in a cafeteria. And 
finally, Packer was probably paid off by the Re
publicans anyway.
(From a knowledgeable historian)
Maya
By David She ward
I first encountered this woman through the 
magic of television. I had the day off from school 
or maybe it was summer, I don't remember. 
Anyway I had the afternoon free so I decided 
to turn off my mind and watch some daytime 
TV. I tuned into a local talk show hosted by 
the local talk show hostess Marciarose, who 
has since been cancelled. Marciarose's first guest 
was a tall majestic-looking black woman intro
duced as Maya Angelou. The hostess reeled 
off some of the guest's credits; she toured Europe 
and Africa for the State Department in Ger
shwin's Porgy and Bess; she taught dance in 
Rome and Tel Aviv; she wrote for newspapers 
in Egypt, she worked for the University of 
Ghana in Accra and that was only the beginning. 
How could one woman participate in all these 
diverse activities?, I thought.
After the commercial it was explained that 
Maya Angelou was in town to promote her new 
book, a second autobiography entitled, "Gather 
Together in My Name." Through her conversa
tion with Marciarose she emerged as an intensely 
living person, who through her singing, her 
dancing, her writing, her acting and her very 
being, celebrated life. Marciarose then passed 
on to her next guest, I think it was the Mayor 
of Camden. I was still under Maya Angelou's 
spell. I had to read her work.
I found a copy of her poetry, "Just Give 
Me a Drink Of Cool Water 'fore I Dine," among 
the other paperback poets in a book store. Her 
words lashed out like stones at the injustices dealt 
black people, her words sang of love, her words
Any reference to the legend of Alferd E. 
Packer would be incomplete without mention of 
his life while on parole. Following his release 
from jail, Packer moved to Fergayzee, Wyoming, 
and started a chain of fast food resturants, called 
PackDonald's. The restaurants were quick, clean, 
and efficient, and the specialty of the house was, 
of course, the Big Pack.
However, only two weeks after opening, the 
PackDonald's business was a standstill, and Packer 
was suffering huge financial losses. It seems that 
most of the patrons of PackDonald's didn't like 
their burgers as rare as Alferd did.
(Tune in next week to find out why Alferd E. 
Packer didn't have any children.)
r27,1,9V2 o2mVlu 8N4,14 r2llVC2an4 g2l4 il r-a-92MNORTHGLENN, Colo. (UPI) - Back in the winter of 1874, mountain man Alferd E. Packer led a party of five prospectors, said to be gold-seeking Democrats, into the high country of the southern Colorado Rockies.Packer reappeared in a few months, well-fed and alone. The remains of the five men he guided into the mountains were found when the snow melted and Packer was charged with cannibalism.
Alferd Packer, yon voracious son of a bitch, there were seven Democrats in Hindsdale County and you ate five of them/' the judge at Lake City, Colo., said in sentencing Packer. I sentence you to be hang* ed by the neck until you are dead, dead, dead.**
Now the memory of Packer, who was spared the noose and later paroled, has gotten mixed up in politics. The Friends of Alferd E. Packer, a club named after the guide, have criticized efforts by Agriculture Department employes to name a cafeteria in Washington in his honor.The Eastern establishment in the Carter administration has devoured some of our best Western talent, consumed many needed water projects, eaten away at farm prices, and now they want to hoard Colorado's own folk hero, Perry Eberhart said yesterday.Eberhart said the cafeteria was a bad food mecca and not worthy of the plaque honoring Packer that Agriculture Department employes put up, and then were ordered to remove by Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland.The plaque was tne idea of ex-Colorado residents in the agency.
Packer is Colorados pioneer epicure, said Eberhart. He developed his particular taste right here on Cannibal Plateau near Lake City.
It happens every time, said Fred G. Simonton of Evergreen, Colo. Once they get to Washington, they forget their roots. Their attitude on water projects is a good example that they just dont give a damn.It looks as if they are still ashamed that Packer dieted on Democrats.
Reprinted from Pgh. Post Gazette
spoke directly to m'i. I also found a copy of 
her first autobiography, "I Know Why The Caged 
Bird Sings." Her prose was as strong as her 
poetry. In this book she wrote about her child
hood which was spent in a small town in Arkansas 
with her grandmother after the break-up of her 
parents' marriage. It ends when she bears an il
legitimate child at sixteen.
Through the Book of the Month Club I got a 
copy of her second autobiography, "Gather 
Together In My Name." This volume tells of her 
search for employment in order to support her 
young son. She turns to prostitution and almost
drugs, but manages to escape them before they 
destroy her.
At this point my school was having an essay 
contest with the them, "The Most Memorable 
American I Have Ever Encountered." The only 
logical choice for me was Maya Angelou. I wrote 
the essay, praising her work, and detailing some 
of her life. It won first prize, one hundred dollars 
taken off my tuition, and it got me something 
much more. The Chairman of our History De
partment which ran the essay contest, sent a copy
CONTINUED ON PAGE 15

---------------------------------------------------

'September 27, 1977TARTANPage 13
s
Roma
by Gmny Beyer
You really ought to know Roma. You know, 
Roma Richards. Roma Vance. Roma Marie 
Torrence. She goes by a number of names, one 
for every company whose bills she never paid. 
;1She even uses her seven-year-old daughter's name 
-- Chanteil Roberts -to keep Ma Bell off her 
back. In spite of all the crazy names, she likes the 
real one best.
I first met Roma in a small, rowdy bar called 
the Turks Head Tavern. She was belly-fighting 
with a friend of mine -- trying to knock him 
over with the force of her broad belly without 
being smacked down by his. In spite of all 
_ her 175 pounds, Roma lost and went sprawl
ing right into the table where I was sitting, 
sending my beer into my lap. I'd rather beer 
than her big bottom.
But Roma took me into her heart and into her 
home all in the same moment. I exchanged my 
soggy jeans for a skirt of hers even though I had 
to pin it to keep it on my ass. Roma brought 
in a bottle of Spanada, her favorite alcoholic 
high, and put a Loretta Lynn album on the 
4 ragged turntable.
Although Roma seems to always be broke, her 
living room is quite well-stocked with antiques 
and good junk. Her prize possession is an old 
brass coffee maker. A curious contraption, it 
stands on a low, teak coffee table next to the 
E-Z Widers. A thick Oriental rug stretches 
out on the floor, topped by a long, over
stuffed couch and two overstuffed chairs. 
Roma's chair is the fuzzy green one with the 
familiar imprint of her rear-end.
Roma does have a home, but you're much 
more likely to find her out on the main drag 
of town, hitchhiking. It's the only form of 
transportation she knows. Once upon a time, 
Roma had a car and a driver's license. The car 
she smashed, and since the license expired, she 
never bothered to renew it.
by Rick Kubinski
If someone was to ask someone else "name 
someone who you ought to know", or "name 
someone you would like to know", that someone 
else would probably come back with some stupid 
answer like Jimmy Carter, Johnny Carson, or Rod 
Carew. You know about these kind of people, 
don't you? Yea, that's right: name droppers. I'm 
sure if they knew one of these people, you'd get 
something like: "well, when JIMMY CARTER
and I were talking about it the other day, he 
said blah,blah,blah..." or "JOHNNY CARSON 
told me the greatest joke yesterday", or "ROD 
CAREW got me 6 new official baseballs yesterday 
when I saw him." Well, I can say that none of the 
above makes the top of my list when it comes to 
people I'd most like to know. And even though 
I'm not a name dropper, I've got to say the man 
who is at the top of my list is (are you ready for 
this?) Arnie Haloschevitz.
Arnie, much better known as the "Big Ar" 
(pronounced R), has the reputation of being one 
of the best, all around cool dudes that ever lived. 
Let me give you a few examples...
A friend of mine (who shall remain nameless 
due to his frail health) owned his own business. 
He lived very comfortably and always got along 
with his employees. Then a couple of new kids 
joined the work force; they excited the union. 
Made them demand silly things like more pay and
Roamin' Roma. With her overstuffed 
purse slung over her shoulder and an um
brella tucked under her arm, you'll see her, 
thumb extended, on the street corner. Some
times she takes Chanteil, her daughter, with her, 
but most of the time she travels alone.
Before her daughter was born and the first 
of her two marriages, Roma hitchhiked down to 
New Orleans for Mardi Gras. Then her thumb 
took her to Tucson, San Francisco, and finally 
up to Seattle. There, she joined up with a 
circus, selling popcorn under the big top.
She really wanted to be a clown, but at the 
time, Dr. George's Travelling Circus had an 
excess of greasepainted sn !es and frowns. It's 
a shame, too. Roma would have made a good 
clown. With her brown, curly, mop, wide eyes,
less hours. Then all hell broke loose. The union 
went on strike, and my friend ceased living very 
comfortably. As a matter of fact, around the 
third month of the strike he almost ceased living, 
period. It seems all his excess funds had been tied 
up in the construction of a foot-shaped swimming 
pool, and as a result by now he had very little to 
keep him alive. His mind in absolute chaos, he 
called on his friend Arnie Haloschevitz, and 
asked him what he could possibly do: the "Big 
Ar" said don't worry about a thing: that he
would take care of everything, and sure enough, 
he was right. Within hours, both of those new 
kids were dead, and the work force was back on 
the job by the end of the week. Gotta hand it 
to the "Big Ar"!
And then another time another friend of mine 
(who shall remain nameless due to his public 
image) was being audited by the I.R.S. Now 
he knew that once they got a hold of his books, 
they would do 2 things: one, they would break 
into convulsions of hysterical laughter, and two, 
they would send him up the river for 10 to 20 for 
tax fraud and evasion. Well, he thought and 
thought, and could find no answers, and in 
desperation he called the "Big Ar " and begged, 
literally begged, for help. Well, the "Big Ar" was 
beautiful. He told him to stop that begging, that 
there would be no problem at all. And whaddya 
know but that 1 week later I.R.S. told my buddy
and energetic bounce, she'd have been a natural.
But Roma returned to the Fast coast. In 
PhiladelDhia, she found a job in a styrofoam cup 
factory, counting and stacking cups. She'd 
monopolize the conversation in the lunchroom 
with her chitchat, amusing her co-workers with 
her latest escapades. Like the good time she had 
last Tuesday, dancing til dawn at Joe's Bar. Or 
who she slept with last night.
Roma's lovers range from an elder gent who 
drives a garbage truck to a Puerto Rican boy 
named Jose. There are many in between, too, 
not to mention her ex-husband. At age 32, 
she had not only been divorced, but also widowed 
by the war. In thirty-two years, she squeezed 
more out of life than most people do in 
eighty.
to forget it. He couldn't figure out why 'till he 
read about the president of the I.R.S. taking a 
"well-deserved vacation" in the Bahamas... The 
"Big Ar" had struck again.
Finally, there was a buddy of mine (who 
shall remain nameless, because he said if I men
tioned his name he'd break my face) 
who had a girl-friend who was deeply in love 
with him. Now he wanted to get rid of her, 
but didn't want to hurt her. Frankly, he was 
baffled. He could see no solution in sight. So 
what did he do? You guessed it, he called the 
"Big Ar". "Big Ar" listened to his plea, and was 
asked if he had any suggestions. No, the "Big Ar" 
didn't have suggestions, he had answers ! He told 
my buddy not to sweat it. For two weeks my 
buddy didn't hear a thing from his sweetie. 
Finally he got a letter: a wedding invitation. It 
seems that his ex-girl friend had met this fantastic 
millionaire two weeks ago, who had swept her off 
her feet. When he said "will you", she said "yes". 
He was a little hurt by her bluntness, but relief 
easily overcame this wound. Yes, my friends, 
the "Big Ar" works in mysterious ways.
I don't know exactly why the "Big Ar" does 
what he does. Maybe it's just because he's 
a nice guy, or maybe it's because he owns control
ling interest in U.S. Steel and Westinghouse, and 
is bored. Whichever reason it is, all I know is, 
Maybe JIMMY CARTER can get you advice, 
Maybe JOHNNY CARSON can get you a good 
joke, and Maybe ROD CAREW can get you a 
baseball, but "BIG AR" HALOSCHEVITZ can 
qet you out of trouble ! ! !
*Big Ar* Haloschevitz

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-September 27, 1977
ExCerptS froma Lover's Portfolio
E*X,X*X*X,Xl,X*X,X*X,X*X*!,X*X*XM*XXX*X!XM!*X*I!V!!i!
oy K.A. Yaksich
I. ...His shoulders bow as he bends over his gui
tar. I want to say something, but it is doubtful 
that I could break his near-trancelike state of con
centration. It is marvelous that hands such as his 
can coax such fragile and tender music from his 
intrument, rough and brusque as they appear. His 
left hand caresses the guitar's neck. The constant 
imposition of his will on the unyielding catguts 
has raised leathery callouses on his painstakingly 
pared fingertips, and the sinews in the back of hi 
hand trace out an inappropriately delicate filigree. 
His other hand moves lightlylambentover the 
strings, which respond with joyous ecstatic 
chords.
His face, too, reflects the passion of his art. 
Lips form words that were never before set to 
music, words which are barely aspirated. Eyes 
focus unblinkingly on an object just outside the 
walls, or suddenly close in deference to a qho/5 
more vibrant than the others.
Abruptly, the music ends,sand with it, his rev
erie. He turns smilingly to me. "Got any Coke? I 
feel a little drained..." ^
II. ...As the strains of the Air Force anthem 
swelled through the hall, I had a final chance to 
survey the graduating cadet class. One in parti
cular held me fascinated, steadfastedly refusing to 
return my regard. As his name was intoned over 
the P.A. system, he flushed deep red beneath his 
tan to the roots of his lambs'-lock curls; he moved 
forward to receive his Wings. I could sense an aura 
of misplaced ease in his motions. His gait was less 
than suited to military regimentation than to a 
stretch of Permafinish. His slight but athletic
frame appeared stiffly uncomfortable in his uni
form; his brown eyes belied a longing to be run
ning free on some faraway track. Studying his 
face more closely, I was able to discern the famil
iar and sensitive curve of his mouth under a flossy 
moustache, over which his slightly upturned nose 
(which would have been termed "pert" on anoth
er type of person) contributed to his boyishly 
wistful expressions.
But as he returned to his place, I saw that with 
his Wings had come a transformation. There was 
new pride in his step; having passed through a 
necessarily finite stage, he had become a man...
II. Certain images live on in the mind forever.
You came striding out of the locker room, hands 
in hip pockets.
And I wasn't sure if your careless glance would 
notice my desperately coy waving.
It did.
You sat down next to me, and the Varsity team 
faded from existence.
You^were, in short, DashingChambray 
not-quite-new jeans, suede hiking boots.
Blue is y\>ur color.
fumblec about for a piece of Wrigley's 
Juicyfruii,
And my f ocket comb,
Anxious 1o please, 
wanted tfc> help smooth your brown waves, just ^ 
ngth, framing your smile, 
your right sleeve, feeling the powerful 
running through the sinew in your arm, 
ished you had put your arm around my 
shoulders.
again you had misplaced your contacts; 
ur neat gold-rimmed aviator frames mirrored 
my image ?
As you explained some cumbersome technicality 
And I think your eyes were sparkling
Although it might have been just the reflection 
from my own.
Once, your knee barely brushed mine as you leapt 
to applaud a play.
Did you feel a surge of...electricity?
All your words seemed right
As we left, even without a caress, I felt vibrant... 
Hopeful for the future.
That's how I'd rather remember you
Blurred around the edges, like a dream.
Reality is too crisp.
Lifelong Friend
by Alison Cornish
It says in the Folio information sheet that this 
article is to be about "A Person You Ought to 
Know." They suggest anything from your 
mother to a teacher to anything in between.
Now, if I sat down and wrote about my mother, 
most people would probably skip right over this 
article, and go on to the sports news. Even 
though my mother happens to be a wonderful 
person, there are probably very few people on 
the CMU campus that care to read a tribute to 
Mrs. Glenn Cornish. No, the article must be 
about someone that everyone really should know. 
And here it is. Your dormitory mother. That 
wonderful mother away from mom. Oh, how 
she works. Day after day, cleaning, cooking, 
washing, caring for her dear children in her dorm. 
Got a broken lightbulb? Rosy's there. Locked 
out of your room? Don't worry - Rosy will 
take care of it. Problems with your guy or 
gal? Rosy's shoulder is always there to cry on.
What's that you say? There's no such thing 
as a dorm mother? Oh.
Never mind.
Weil, there goes that idea. There must be some
one who really does exist that is a person tftat 
everyone should know. How's this? The Morewood Desk attendant! Oh yes, that smiling face
that always greets you as you come in from a 
long night at the library, the one who takes 
the mighty job of security into his hands and 
keeps you safe at night. The one who....
Huh? Don't say it. Doesn't exist? Figures.
Where are all the wonderful people around here? 
Did they all leave with the summer sun?
"No. I'm still here."
Where did that come from?
"In here dummy."
HUH?
And so here it goes. A person you ought to 
know. Your Self. Now wait a minute. It makes 
more sense than it might at first glance. Every
one thinks that they know themselves pretty
r
well. After all, haven't you been living with your 
self for the past x number of years? But when 
was the last time you looked at yourself as a 
person? Or more than a person; even a friend. 
And when was the last time you cared as much 
about your own emotions as you care about those 
of a friend?
Now I would never tell you to sit down with * 
yourself and have a conversation because there's 
no dorm mother or Morewood Desk attendant 
to talk to - that's weird. But do you know 
yourself well enough to be able to predict what 
you'll do in certain situations? Understanding 
your own emotions is the first step toward 
understanding the emotions of others. How 
can you expect to sympathize or deal with others  
until you know how you, yourself, would react 
in a similar situation? You can't.
I've known a lot of people that really have 
lost complete touch with themselves. They 
decided sometime earlier in life that they didn't 
like some aspect of their personality. And they 
saw an aspect in someone else that they did like. 
So they imitated it. And they kept doing this 
until they are a conglomeration of their friends, ' 
but have lost total identity with themselves.
So what does all this have to do with a person 
you ought to know? I truly believe that your 
best friend in life can be yourself. You can also 
be your own worst enemy. It's all in the way 
you approach it. One thing is for certain. You 
will always have a lifelong friend.

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 15
MK
Angelou
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12
jf my essay to Maya Angelou. She sent me back 
a copy of her second book of poetry, "Oh Pray 
My Wings Are Gonna Fit Me Well and a letter 
of thanks.
Later that year there was a congress of Creators 
being held in Philadelphia, near where I went 
to school. Maya Angelou was one of the speakers. 
After the last class of the day I ran to the train, 
caught a subway, ran several blocks and panting 
and sweating stumbled into the Painted Bride 
OArt Center where she was speaking. Only I had 
arrived too late to hear her speak. She was sign
ing copies of her book. Exhausted, schoolbooks 
still in hand, I lurched towards the lecturn and 
said, "Hi, I'm David Sheward,. I wrote the essay 
about you and you sent me a copy of your 
book.''
She smiled, exposing fine white teeth, "That's
right. Let me finish this and we'll talk.
Taking my cue I collapsed on a near-by fold
ing chair and waited for her to finish the auto
graph session. Then she came over and sat in the 
chair next to mine and we talked. I told her 
what I wanted to be, an actor, a writer, maybe a 
director. She told me that she was flattered 
by my essay and that it showed I had an ear 
for the language. We concluded that we should 
write to each other and perhaps there would be 
mutual benefits from such a correspondence.
Since our meeting, Maya Angelou has pub:shed a third autobiography, "Singin' And 
'ingin' and Getting' Merry Like Christmas,
vi '":h details her nightclub engagements in San 
? icisco with a then unknown comedian named 
Phyllis Diller. She writes of her tour of Europe 
and Africa with Porgy and Bess, how she appear
ed on Roots, as Kunta Kinte's grandmother and 
was on the Richard Pryor Special in a scene 
which she wrote. She is now directing her own 
musical.
We still write to each other, and though some
times her responses are delayed because of her 
busy schedule, I still treasure them.
Beauty Is Only 
Glass Deep
by Dan Livak
Do the contours 
of the bottle change 
the contents?
Does a bottle of beauty 
contain a delightful 
ambrosia
while a short squat 
vial contain a vile 
liquid?
I doubt it.
MAKING IT
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 11
I
same thing and they all demand ti t I tell them 
about Ron as a college-man. So I tell them.
"My first impression was kind of mixed. He 
was in one of my classes. He was muscular and 
Aryan looking. Compared to him, I looked like 
I was on a perennial walk to Hebrew School. He 
was handsome, of course. Athletic. He was the 
New York State Breast Stroke Champion in 
high school, you know.
But they knew all that. They knew everything.
"Tell us something that we don't know. Damn 
you. They say, and they seem angry.
"Well, Ron really liked his girlfriend, Marita. 
She was a beautiful Chatham girl. He met her his 
freshman year at CMU, and he took her with 
him when he came to California to become a 
star. Marita was a delicious girl. She was more 
than pretty. Later on in the year, she kind of 
lost a little bit of herself, but Ron attributed 
that to the pill."
"The Pill? they say collectively, with wide 
eyes and even wider grins.
"Yes. I think that Ron was oversexed in those 
days. He'd be at Chatham every night. But 
that wasn't enough. He d still have the urge for 
other girls. We'd be sitting together at the lunch 
table and a girl would walk by, and Ron would 
say to me, 'I'd love to you-know-what with her'. 
Fact is, Ron would even say those things if 
Marita was at the table with us.
But he loved her. And she loved him. That's 
why she followed him to California. But if you 
ask me, I think that she should have stayed at 
Chatham. Now, if there's nothing else you want 
to know, then I'll just hop inside these gates and 
see Mr. Throb."
"Stay where you are. We're not finished with 
you. the reporters yell collectively. "Tell us 
more.
So I told them. "Ron would read these porno .
graphic letters out loud that he got from some 
friend of his in Chicago. He'd read them in the 
middle of class, real softly in the back row. 
The girls sitting around him would always cringe, 
and that delighted Ron.
The female world was his biggest hang up for 
sure. He was always handling Marita in front of 
me. Walking through the yellow pages on top of 
her jeans, up and down her legs while he was 
talking to me. He got his kicks that way I
suppose."
One of the female reporters faints at this point 
in the fantasy, but the other reporters just step 
over her.
"What did Ron see in you? one of the reporters 
sneers with a demanding tone to his voice.
"He knew I was a Writing major, and he wanted 
me to write his life story in three acts. He wanted 
to star in it. I never got around to writing it 
though.
He also wanted me to do his homework. 
Once he had me write his English paper for him. 
If he got a D on it, he promised me three dollars. 
Five bucks for a C; eight dollars for a B; and 
$12.50 for an A. So I wrote the paper for him."
"And what grade did he receive?" I'm asked.
"He got a check plus. He never told me it 
would be graded that way, and he never paid 
me anything."
The reporters laugh at me and write down 
that the Stars talents far exceed the dramatic 
aspects of life.
I tell the reporters how Ron used to call all 
over the country with a fake Bank-Americard 
number. He'd use the pay phone on 7-E Morewood, and he'd even call me without putting in 
a dime, by feeding the operator this made up 
charge number. I tell them how Ron took after 
his father, in a lot of ways. For instance, when 
Daddy Heart Throb was introduced to Marita, 
he gave her a french kiss.
The reporters beg me for more information, 
more insights into the Ron of the CMU world.
I tell them;
"He had this philosophy about dropping out 
of school. He felt that his purpose in life was to 
somehow make a contribution to the world. 
If he isn't meant to make the contribution 
himself, then he'd keep making children until
one of them grows up and does something for 
humanity. Ron told me that he was going to 
Hollywood to 'make it' and if he couldn't, 
he'd lay Marita down and start making kids. 
That was the way Ron saw it!"
"Anything else you could tell us?" I'm asked.
"Well, I could, but I'd really like to see Ron, 
because I miss him, and I want to see how he's 
making out as a big star."
OK, we're finished with you. Go ahead 
in. The reporters say, as they let me in the 
gate.
Well, I walk inside the gate, but that's where 
the fantasy ends. That's when I remember that 
Ron isn't the biggest bigshot in Hollywood. 
He's not even in Hollywood. He's in some little 
apartment in L.A. where Marita is a waitress 
in some hamburger shop. Ron is using his breast 
stroking ability to life guard at some pool, and 
the only interviews he's been able to collect have 
been from Stag film producers. Worse than 
that, Ron is thinking of taking them up on their 
offers.
That's what I've heard about Ron. That's all 
I know. And that isn't fantasy. That's reality.
Someday Ron might be CMU's most famous 
drop out, but now he's just another actor scram
bling to 'make-it' in a business where few do, and 
the rest have children. Poor Marita was dragged 
out of Chatham for the sake of Ron's careerto-be, and I'd hate to see her role in life as a childmaker. So I'm kind of hoping that Ron makes 
his mark on the world, for her sake, as well as 
for his.
The reporters in my fantasy never asked me if 
I thought it was a good idea for Ron to drop out 
of CMU. If they had asked me, I'd probably 
tell them that I tried to convince him out of it. 
Then I'd tell these reporters what Ron told me, 
in his most dramatic tone, before he left.
"Maybe I wasn't meant to be a star, but ex
perience tells me that I was meant to have chil
dren. Maybe they weren't meant to be anything 
either, but their children or grandchildren will be. 
I've got damn good genes. Healthy, good looking, 
creative genes. And if I can't use those genes 
myself, or pass them on, then there isn't anything 
that CMU could do for me or teach me."
In some ways, I'd have to agree with him.

---------------------------------------------------

Theyre proven performers. In space. On Everest. In the 
labs of Nobel laureates. Since we built the first, back in 
1972, our advanced calculators have been tested by mil
lions worldwide, and theyve passed.
They have staying power. Today s classroom problems quickly grow into tomorrows on-the-job problems. 
HP calculators are designed and built to handle both. 
Theyre investments in a future that happens fast.
Theyre straightforward. Advanced doesnt mean 
complicated. It means uncomplicated! HP calculators are, 
above all, straightforward.
Theyre easy to use. HP calculators not only grow 
with you; they grow on you. They feel natural, comfortable, 
because we designed them to work like you think.
Theyre efficient. HP calculators take the direct 
approach. All feature RPN, a time-saving, parenthesis-free 
logic system. All programmables feature a memory-saving 
keycode merging capability.
Theyre personal. Professionals design their own ways 
to solve their particular problems, and they expect their 
calculators to be versatile enough to accommodate them. 
Ours are.
Theres a variety. To say we offer a full line is an 
understatement. We offer a choice. Thats why we publish 
a unique Selection Guide that spells out the capabilities 
of each. Your HP dealer has your free copy.
(800) 648-4711. The number to call for more informa
tion and your HP dealers name and address (unless youre 
in Nevada, in which case you can call 323-2704).
HP-29C. Our NEW 
Programmable with 
Continuous Memory.
$195.00*
Its 98-step program memory and 
16 of its 30 storage registers stay on 
even when the calculator is "off,' so you 
can store programs and data for as long 
as you wish. Continuous Memory plus 
fully merged keycodes bring typi
cal program memory capacity to 175 
keystrokes and beyond. Insert/delete 
editing. Conditional and unconditional 
branching. Three levels of subroutines. 
10 decision tests. Exceptional versatility 
at an exceptional price.
! e IS 6 18 -A t f
Off !J  02 otc1 r1 AAO 1
v*. <9m1 ** mmoc*urnurn*pp 1
su miMt 1Mto*fact.  *
< mMMt Vmmitoicun
/
-77
3 w 5 
1 o*
6 1 U v
s 1
: w
f
;
12* . Acc mi 
i* fi Pv
IB*s 
mmySTO U.
RESET Ph 5p
S#T5* t CHI *,
CufAR
BB130
f*a000
n00
943cy
r vwi ..ma
1 ---------- --------------------J
J e 3 W 5 6 1 01
off  on PM n - 1HIT SC MG 
S: 8SI <m ppm
? t 
pd TSF STO QU(!<
pnenv iGM ta 
? CHI kdVmm
vnT*al
xy *o <09M 0 0
X> Vr MI
?0
t mp 0 m
<yji /Twm
1 ? 3 M 5 6>9 -,, 1
-19 1 > Se
R* CI <oI
pr : s mm1n *PVrv 1
m m m;y I
c 3 H
' ' tM
56 16 9D 
444Cu87r
V*fT$ ST*
mmmCMf :
.Bce
piSfpiPi
 086 tri setWOLBi.f
fmOiPIh
[ MirriWM
IW 2
pH!P
W/PATAci ec
HP-21 Scientific.
$80.00*
Performs all standard math and trig calculations, the latter in radians or degrees Performs rectangular/polar conversions. Displays in fixed decimal or scientific notation Our lowest priced scientific.
HP-22 Business Management.
$125.00*
A new kind of management tool. Combines financial, statistical and mathematical capabilities Enables business students to forecast faster, more easily and with greater certainty.
HP-25
Scientific Programmable.
$125.00*
Solves repetitive problems automatically. Enter your formula once; thereafter only variables. Requires no software, no "computer" language Our lowest priced programmable. We also offer an HP-25 with Continuous Memory, the HP-25C, for $160 00* It retains programs and data even when turned off!
HP-27
Financial/Statistical/Scientific.
$175.00*
Contains the most preprogrammed scientific functions we've ever offered, plus comprehensive statistical and financial functions. Lets you forecast, allocate resources, analyze costs-quickly.
HP-67 Fully Programmable. 
$450.00*
The most powerful pocket calculator we've ever built. 224-step program memory. 26 storage registers. "Smart card reader records contents of both. Fully merged keycodes increase typical program memory capacity up to 450 keystrokes and beyond. Superior editing capability.
1616/51
"Suggested retail price. excluding applicable state and local taxes  
Continental U.S.. Alaska and Hawaii
Displays are photographed separately to simulate typical appcarancc.
HEWLETT ^PACKARD
Dept 65SJ. 1000 N.K Circle Blvd . Corvallis. Oregon 97330 *
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
1:00 - 5:00 PM Daily
SKIBO 40A
Why tomorrows professionals 
choose Hewlett-Packards first family , 
of advanced calculators today.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT 
PUNK ROCK, WAVE OF FUTURE
by David Doremus
Punk rock, New wave, garbage, what
ever name you use, its here to stay. With
in the last few months many punk rock 
records have been released by major labels. 
No longer do devotees have to take the 
pilgrimage to New York or London to hear 
their music, its only as far away as the 
nearest record store. And as sales go up, 
FM air play increases and sales rise some 
more and the next thing you know The 
Laughing Dops have a Top 40 hit single. 
It could happen, especially with the 
upcoming American release of the best 
British Punk. Richard Hell and the Voidoids, the Damned and hopefully, The Sex 
Pistols will soon be widely available to 
American listeners.
For those few who have never heard of 
punk rock a brief explanation is probably 
in order. Punk music is partially a return 
to original rock and roll styles, not heavy 
metal or acid rock but basic, primitive, 
sado-masochistic three chord rocknroll, 
highly electrified. Punk springs from such 
diverse sources as Bruce Springsteen, Lou 
Reed, Patty Smith, The Doors, Phil Spector and, ultimately, the stars of the fifties, 
Chuck Berry, Bo Diddley, Carl Perkins, 
and Buddy Holly.
British punk is frequently an expression 
of protest by jobless and alienated working 
class youth, generally nihilist and anarchisc in mood. In America, however, 
punk is characterized by a decadent aesthe
tic, nostalgic and extremist fashions and 
highly sexual overtones, often violent, are 
enjoyed for their own sake instead of 
voicing the rage of hungry unemployed. 
No matter where its from punk rock is 
loud, highly rhythmic and basically simplis
tic. No performer at CBGBs has ever been 
accused of being an excellent musician just 
as none of the Sex Pistols songs could be 
called overly complex. However, this lacka
of virtuoso perfomers and performances 
makes no difference, the ability to crank 
out powerful rock and roll is based on 
counting to four with a certain regularity, 
beating the hell out of ones instrument 
and knowledge of four to six chords in 
four to sex keys. The main ingrediants 
necessary for good rock are love for the 
music and intense desire to play it, these 
the punk rockers have in generous measure.
Mink DeVille is a group of young New 
York rockers and their Debut album may 
prove to be the best release of 1977. Mas
terminded by lead singer Willy DeVille, 
they play a variety of styles and moods 
equally well. Louie Erlanger, Manfred 
Allen, Bobby Leonards and Reuban Siquenza on guitar, drums, piano and bass 
respectively are competent but not in
spired. They do, however, form an effec
tive showcase for Willy DeVilles voice. 
Steve Douglas saxophone rounds out the 
bands sound on the funkier cuts like 
Venus of Avenue D and Cant Do With
out It.
DeVille, besides being a leader and song
writer is an impressively versatile vocalist. 
He doesnt have to imitate such stylists 
as Bowie or Tom Verlaine or resort to 
screaming to get his point across. DeVille 
is one of the most subtle rock singers around. His command over his vocal chords 
enables him to range from shouters like 
Shes So Tough and One Way Street to 
such mellow ballads as Mixed Up. Shook 
Up Girl and Little Girl to the slow blues 
Cadillac Walk. The man puts his voice 
into so many different timbres and ranges 
its hard not to be impressed.
This album is so diverse that it cannot 
truly be called punk rock. Some songs 
definitely fall into that category while 
others are closer to the Springsteen-Southside Johnny school. The production is 
impeccable, the playing tight and careful 
and there is something here for all tastes
and moods all of which would seem to 
place it closer to mainstream rock. Still 
there is an undercurrent of calculated 
toughness and a tone to both lyrics and 
music that unavoidably demands compari
son with the purer punk music of bands 
like Television and The Tuff Darts. Whe
ther punk or not this is still the best rock 
and roll album I have heard for a long, 
long, time.
An album that is a bit closer to p;re 
punk (if there is such a thing) is Blondie 
by the group of the same name, another 
New York band that features pure blond 
Deborah Harrys singing. Blondie is not 
nearly as good a band as Mink DeVille, 
while their album has mmy good moments 
it does not succeed as a whole and tends 
to become repetitious. All the songs are 
strongly reminiscent of sixties rocknroll 
and surf music with touches of Chubby 
Checkers, Leader of the Pack and Wipe
out. This is fine to a point but Harrys 
voice is unfortunately rather limited, she 
sings clearly but a bit on the thin side and 
with little expression or variation. Her 
voice is at its best in the sensuous Look 
Good in Blue and Man Overboard and 
the tough "Rip Her to Shreds. Her worst 
is probably In the Sun a totally inane 
bit of Jofferel that begins with a cry of 
Surfs up! James Destri on keyboards 
has some fine grand piano and synthesizer 
fills on Look Good in Blue, and Man 
Overboard but otherwise his playing is 
monotonously the same.
On a few songs, X Offender, Rip 
Her to Shreds, In the Flesh and Look 
Good in Blue everything seems to click 
and the sound and feeling are perfect. But 
four excellent songs cannot carry seven 
others that are for the most part flat and 
boring. They are a potentially good band 
but that is all right now, maybe next time.
Now we get down to the real nittygritty, The Damned. Youll either love
them or hate them. This is hardcore Eng
lish punk, screaming, tough and raunchy, 
punk at its crudest extreme. Like other 
English bands, The Damned lean towards 
extremes in appearance as well as music. 
Lead singer Dave Vanians face and hands 
are pure clown white save for black lipstick 
and eye shadow. Bassist Captain Sensible 
wears a dress and apron that could have 
come from the sleaziest greasy spoon in 
Rock Island, Davenport, Moline and East 
Moline. Drummer Rat Scabies and guitar
ist Brian James are comparatively conserva
tive dressers but make up for it with their 
frenzied playing.
The major portion of The Damneds act 
seems to be mutilating their various instru
ments and voices at the highest possible 
volume level. Most of their songs are play
ed very fast, almost rushed. They are 
usually short, powerful and to the point. 
James guitar solos are almost noise and 
Vanian seems intent on ruining his lungs 
and throat as soon as possible while avoid
ing any semblance of melody. The surpris
ing thing is that their music is so affecting.
I like this record immensely. If pressed to 
explain why, I would have to fall back on 
phrases like gut-level reaction/ The 
music seems to conjure up some primitive 
force out of thin air. This is, of course, a 
purely subjective opinion. By most musi
cal standards this album is atrocious, in
credibly repetitious, played at break neck 
speeds, poorly produced and showing 
only minimal technical expertise. Their 
songs almost transcend their own limits to 
touch some long repressed part of human
ity in the same way early blues did, early 
rocknroll did, the way all extremely 
primitive forms of expression do. This is 
raw, unadulterated emotion, whether 
screaming or crooning the emotion is 
still there, intense and powerful.
continued on page 18
TWENTYONEHUNDBED
n compuTERizED muLTi-sensoRY 
CorCecCtiC nJ SfC S.cCtcScCSf 
mpflTURY.
Fourteen projectors, thousands of slides, movie 
clips, light effects, a 67-foot wide screen and a 
quadrophonic soundtrack of contemporary folkrock brings you face to face with a changing 
society.
Skibo Ballroom, 9 pm. 
September 30 through 
October 1 and 2. Ad
mission .75 Festival 
Seating
SPONSORED BY INTERVARSITY CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP
-----------

---------------------------------------------------

Pa* e 18TARTANSeptember 27, 1977
SEASON OPENS
a
A dance review 
Company: Eleo Pomare 
Dance Company
Se /,8Z Gamss78,7
The Pittsburgh Dance Council season 
opened with exciting performances by the 
Eleo Pomare Dance Company. This multi
racial group is truly expert in abstract 
as well as dramatic works. Mr. Pomares 
excellent choreography utilizes the 
maximum expressiveness of each dancer 
to convey emotion and character relation
ships, rather than relying solely upon 
the stylized conventions of dance. As 
a result, the company is able to become 
totally immersed in a particular work.
One of their most outstanding works 
was PC1 Km11,!i rCtdS12A an interpreta
tion of motivating forces behind DtsS1NCI 
Robin Becker danced the role of the 
domineering Lady Macbeth with an 
intense, singular power, at the same time 
expressing her underlying sexual frus
trations in an eerie, haunting way. As the 
weaker Macbeth, Larry Schiffer gave 
subtle depth to his character; at first 
reluctant to seek the crown, but finally 
submitting to his wifes unyielding dom
ination. Particularly effective were his at
tempts to fulfill his wifes frustrations 
while at the same time fearing her wrath. 
The costuming was simple and effective in 
the stylistic use of color and pattern to 
produce metaphorical images.
p121,n737NeA the earliest work in the 
repertory, was based on the timeless 
beauty and elegance of ballet. It was an 
effective integration of classical and 
modern dance. The ensemble work by the 
entire company was very good and the 
complex movements were well coordinated 
and, for the most part, well timed. The 
richness of the movements as well as the
music by Handel contrasted with the 
simple white costumes and transformed the 
entire stage into an elaborate baroque 
pagent.
The only letdown of the evening was a 
dance choreographed and performed by 
Mr. Pomare. Entitled ct2s7iimi y7i7,aA
it was a futile attempt to capture the 
psyche of the modem leather-andcycle man. Rather than being a sensitive 
examination of the driving forces behind 
this particular character, it was in
stead a cultist view personified by studs, 
leather, and a well-oiled body. The entire 
dance consisted of a stylized version of 
riding a motorcycle, a gang fight 
(performed by one!) and a macho strut 
around the stage. There was really no 
attempt to place this character in the 
societal context which produced him 
and was therefore only a cliche picturization.
The other works in the repertory were 
excellent dramatic and period pieces. They 
have the ability and talent to expand their 
repertory as well as the strength and 
versatility to handle any dance form.
On the whole, the Eleo Pomare 
Company was a splendid opening for the 
season. As part of the contemporary 
dance series they will be followed by the 
Kathryn Posin Dance Company on 
December 2 and 3 at Stephen Foster 
Memorial.
continued from page 17
It may never become widely popular, 
it may become the latest rage. It doesnt 
matter either way. Punk rocks influence 
is here to stay. Its moods and ideas will 
help shape future rock styles. Its impact 
will not completely disappear for a long 
time to come. Listen to it, form your 
own opinions, who knows, you might 
find a part of yourself.
3 SHOWS ONLY! ORDER NOW!
AN UTTER SPELLBINDER" -Son Francisco Examiner
CHARMING! ENTERTAINING!" -Son Francisco Chronicle
VINCENT PRICE
i**
^ Oscar Wilde ^
in
Diversions & Delights
KJohn Gay
Stttinq /V l.i>|htiiKj ! VsHjned hv ( < Muiin'-' I VsujiH'd l>v
H R. PoindexterNoel Taylor
I 5uvrti*d bv
Joseph Hardy
Cp
j777777T777777777777777777777777777777d77777d777777777777d7777dd77d777777777777777777777777777d77777777dd77777D7d7777d7c777d777777777d7dd7d777777777
VINCENT PRICE stars as OSCAR WILDE in these vivid, humorous, 
touching "remembrances" of OSCAR WILDE in this marvelous new 
show now arriving in Pittsburgh.
Mon., Tues., Wed. at 8 P.M., Oct. 10, 11, 12
Tickets at $8.50, $7.50, $6.50 now on sale at Heinz Hall box office 
and ticket counters in Kaufmann's, Horne's, Sears, Gimbels.
illlllllllllllllllllllllllillllilil||||||||tllllllllll|||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||illlllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll||||||||
ANY C.M.U. STUDENT FOR 
PART-TIME WORK IN FOOD SERVICE
?
EARN MONEY DURING THOSE 
HOURS MOST CONVENIENT FOR YOU
THE GRILL  KILTIE CAFE  
CATERING  KRESGE FACULTY DN. RM. 
MOREWOOD CAFETERIA  BAKERY, DELI
APPLY FOOD SERVICE OFFICE
SKIBO  ROOM 62
MON.-FRI.5 TO 7 P.M.
u

---------------------------------------------------

ART
ALUMNI SHOW at Forbes Street Gallery. 
Opening show - Tues. Sept. 27 - Oct. 9 
(Opens tonight)
Hrs: Tues-Sun: 12-4
Tues., Wed., Thurs.: 7-9 
Grand Open ing: 7 -9:30 
Corner of Forbes & Margaret Morrison.
World-famous sculptor George Segal will 
open this years Man and Ideas lecture 
series at the Carnegie Institute Music Hall 
Tuesday, October 4, 1977 at 8:30 p.m. 
with a slide presentation and discussion of 
his work.
There is no charge for admission to the 
presentation, but tickets may be picked 
up in advance at the public relations office 
of the Carnegie Institute, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue.
THEATRE
Vincent Price stars as Oscar Wilde in the 
masterful new play, Diversions & Delights, 
to appear at Heinz Hall for three shows 
only on October 10-12 starting at 8 p.m. 
each night.
Price captures Wilde near the end of his 
life as he earns a sporadic living by giving 
lectures. Author of prose, poems, novels, 
and plays, Wilde died at an early age in a 
swirl of controversy. Considered one of 
the greatest and most controversial figures 
in the literary world, Wilde authored 
The Importance of Being Earnest, The 
Picture of Dorian Gray, and Lady Winder
meres Fan.
Tickets for this new hit are on sale at 
Heinz Hall. Group discounts are available 
by contacting Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 
281-8185.
The Pittsburgh Lab Theatre will be present
ing Sylvia Plath: A Dramatic Portrait from 
August 26 through October 2 on weekends 
only. Their theatre is located at 3300 
Fifth Avenue on the comer of Fifth and 
Craft in Oakland. Call 621-2876 for more 
information.
Same Time, Next Year, the romantic 
comedy hit starring Barbara Rush and 
Tom Troupe, will continue Heinz Halls 
Broadway Theater Series for eight per
formances on November 8-13.
Ranging from $10 to $4, tickets for 
this Broadway smash comedy are on sale 
at Heinz Hall, Gimbels, Home's, Kaufmanns, and Sears. Discount information 
for students, senior citizens, and groups 
of 20 or more is available by contacting 
Ms. Nancy Sieber at (412) 281-8185.
Camelot Productions will be presenting 
Rodgers and Hannersteins musical Car
ousel at the Plaza Theatre at 4765 Liberty 
Avenue. The show begins at 8:30 and runs 
on weekends beginning September 9. Call
683-7770 for more information.
McKeesport Little Theater will present Neil 
Simons comedy "Star Spangled Girl 
September 16, 17,18, 23, 24, 25 and 30 and 
October 1 and 2 at its theater, corner of 
Coursin Street and Bailey Avenue, 
McKeesport. Curtain time is 8:30 p.m. 
and 7:30 p.m. Sundays. For reservations, 
please call 678-1100.
MUSIC
Trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie and his quartet 
combine with the Duke Ellington Orches
tra directed by Mercer Ellington for 
a double feature to open Heinz Halls new 
Cavalcade of Great Bands series on Oct
ober 9.
Tickets for these concerts are on sale 
at Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Horne's, 
Gimbels and Sears. Group discounts 
are available by contacting Ms. Nancy 
Sieber at 281-8185.
PITTSBURGH -- For the 16th year the 
City of Pittsburgh is sponsoring a number 
of free Pittsburgh Symphony concerts 
for residents of the city. The first of these 
concerts will be presented in Heinz Hall 
at 8 p.m., Wednesday, November 23, to 
be conducted by the Symphonys associate 
conductor Donald Johanos.
These concerts are the result of a grant 
from the citys Performing Arts Program. 
Each year the series consists of four con
certs, the last of which is presented in 
early summer in Schenley Park.
Andre Previn will conduct the Pitts
burgh Symphony in concerts to be 
performed in Heinz Hall on Thurs
day, October 6 at 8 p.m., Friday,
October 7 at 8:30 p.m. and Sun
day, October 9 at 2:30 p.m. High
lighting the program will be the U.S. 
premiere of Lennox Berkeleys 
Concerto for Flute and Orchestra in which 
the Orchestras principal flutist Bernard 
Goldberg will be soloist.
Attendance at Pittsburgh Symphony
concerts is by season subscription only. 
However, tickets are occasionally 
turned back to the box office for re
sale.
PITTSBURGH--Appearing as the second 
feature in Heinz Halls Cavalcade of 
Great Bands" series will be the New 
Brubeck Quartet for one concert only 
Tuesday, November 1 at 8 p.m.
Tickets to hear this special jazz en
semble are $8, $7, and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmanns, Sears, Gimbels, 
and Hornes.
CINEMA
AB will be presenting the film Dodes 
Ka-Den, translated it reads the 
sound of the trolley. It focuses in the 
stories and fantasies of people living in 
a slum in Tokyo. Showings are at 6 and 
9 on September 29 in Doherty Hall.
AB will be presenting A1 Pacino in the 
award winning film Dog Day Afternoon. 
Pacino plays a character named Sonny, 
a confused and frantic adult who is trying 
to hold the ends of his life together with 
one hand. Showings are at 6:30, 9 and 
11:30 on Friday, September 30 in Doherty 
Hall.
SDC will be presenting the Rocky Horror 
Show on Friday, October 1 in Doherty 
Hall at 6, 8:30 and 11 p.m. This Rocky 
doesnt wear boxing gloves. Admission 
is free.
WRCT
WRCT will be returning to their regular 
schedule of broadcasting from 3 p.m. 
to 3 a.m. on Wednesday, September 28. 
They will be broadcasting everything 
from classical jazz to punk rock for your 
listening pleasure.
MISC.
The Pittsburgh Dance Council will present 
for their opening performance in their 
fourth season at Heinz Hall the famous 
Soviet Georgian Dancers, Saturday, Octo
ber 1, at 8:00 p.m.
Tickets are available at the Heinz
EVENTS
Hall box office, Gimbels, Kaufmanns 
and Homes downtown department stores. 
For further information phone the Pitts
burgh Dance Council office - 355-0330. \
The International Poetry Forum will 
present Archibald MacLeish on Wed
nesday, October 5, at 8:00 p.m. in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall!
Tickets for this reading are $3.00 and 
are available to students and senior citizens 
for $2.00.
AB COFFEEHOUSE 
SETS SCHEDULE
The AB Coffee house is planning 
several attractions for upcoming weeks. 
On October 15th they will be presenting 
Louise Diniiceli. This vocalist offers 
clear, tasteful interpretations of traditional 
and contemporary music. She delights 
her listeners with wide-ranging vocals, 
innovative instrumental arrangements, and 
her sheer joy in singing. She has been on 
the faculty of the Old Town School of 
Folk Music for three years.
On October 22, AB will be presenting 
Bottom Dollar at the coffeehouse. Bottom 
Dollar is an accoustic guitar duo. Their 
growing repertoire of homespun songs 
has gained them much respect. Their 
instrumentals are crisp, imaginative, crea
tively arranged and consistently tasteful.
Nina Kahle, a performer of ballads on 
the piano and dulcimer will appear on 
November 4. A barbershop quartet will 
play in the coffeehouse on November 12,
All of the coffeehouses are free to 
CMU students.
The coffeehouse is situated in the 
Wherrett room in Skibo every Saturday 
night. They begin at 9:30.
DESIGN.
m,7o12i7Nea283C7si
University Graphics, a student run 
graphic design service, is having a 
general meeting on Thursday, Sept 
ember 29 at 4:30. All potential 
designers are welcome to meet at our 
office, Room 59, downstairs Skibo.
ON RYE BREAD OR BAGEL
WITH LETTUCE,TOMATO, & DILL PICKLE0U1'
VISIT AUNT FANNYS FOR EVERYTHING YOU REMEMBER AND LOVE A DELI FOR
ASK AUNT FANNY TO PREPARE PARTY TRAYS FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY' f 
5 minutes from Oakland 
Baum Boulevard and Roup Avenue (near Negley)
we deliver |687*5600
Friday and Saturday 7am to l am 
Sunday-Thursday 7am to midnight
SPECIAL GOOD THROUGH OCTOBER 1 1977SPECIAL GOOD I HHOLKiH OCTOBER 1 1977

---------------------------------------------------

September 27, 1977TARTANPage 19
STEVE MARTIN INVADES THE DISC
A record review 
Album: Let's Get Small 
Artist: Steve Martin
by Joan Livitski
Do you revel in the banterings of Sonny 
and Cher? When Pat Paulsen talks poli
tics do you find you cant keep a straight 
face? Do you roll with laughter when Dick 
Van Dyke trips into his slapstick falls? 
And when Tommy Smothers flusters for a 
response and all he can say is, Mom al
ways liked you best, dont you just 
want to die? If your responses have been 
an emphatic yes to one or all, Steve 
Martin will tickle your funny bone.
Itf More than a talented performer, Steve 
Martin is one comedy writer that has a 
bevy of ideas. Hes not only written for 
all the above, but received an Emmy, 
richly deserved, for his work on The 
Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. But 
as he confesses, I did a couple of sum
mer shows and then 1 realized ... I 
gotta get back to performing. Lucky 
/"or us that he did.
His love of laughter makes him want to 
spread it around much like the guidebooks 
and trick ropes he sold at Disneyland 
when he was ten. It was here that he came 
across an idol for himself in Wally Boag 
But even though he memorized Boags 
routines and speaks of Jack Benny, Red 
Skelton and others as influences, to
7 ompare him with them would be a vast 
injustice to his unique style and mater
ial.
His album, Getting Small, gets things 
rolling fast, jumping right into Steves 
act. Maybe a little too fast. Its hard to 
catch what he says until you adjust to his 
rapid tempo. It s ironic that one of his 
first routines is Las Vegas about this very
completely become crazy in order to
survive
issue. His nonsense ramblings emphasize a 
few key words that pull the whole meaning 
together. The monologue displays his 
social insight and the quick tongue of a 
teeny-bopper radio station.
He satirizes money by poking fun at 
materialism and the things people will 
buy like fur-lined sinks, dog polishers, 
and $300.00 socks. Yet all his mat
erial need not mean anything to be 
significant or funny. The routine on 
plumbers sounds is technical, but it 
doesnt matter. Like the American IndiSn 
folk songs, his delivery makes you assured 
that youre following all his nonsense, and 
in fact, you probably are.
One problem he encounters is that a 
good deal of his comedy is visual which 
regretfully is lost in the media of records. 
The live audience at the time of the taping 
goes crazy, but the listener in his living 
room is left confused as to the significance 
of a loud noise or lapse in speech. Gaps 
between monologues tends to break up 
what could be an hilarious snow-ball effect 
if. his skits were enjambed one to the
THE UNIVERSITY ORATORY 
OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH&
JThe Roman Catholic University Parish of the Diocese of Pit
tsburgh was created in 1967 to meet the special needs and 
aspirations of a seeking and learning Community. Through wor
ship, study, retreats and a wide program of other activities, the 
University Oratory seeks to serve the students and faculty of the 
Oakland area. It is your parish and represents your effort to build 
Christian Community.
MASS SCHEDULE:
Saturday 7:00 P.M. Folk Mass 
Sunday 10:30 A.M. Folk Mass
Hunt Library 
Multipurpose 
Room
WEEKDAY MASSES:
Monday through Friday 12:30 P.M. CMUs CHAPEL
(Skibo 39)
DISCUSSION: VATICAN II 
September 27 - Tuesday 8:00 P.M. 
CMUs Chapel (Skibo 39)
RETREAT: Sept. 30, Oct. 1 & 2 
At our Farm (Rednal) in Ligionier. 
(Cars will leave Friday after classes)
For More Info: Fr. Bob English - 681-3181 (4040 Bigelow Blvd.)
other.
Some tidbits of comical insight are his 
routines: Smoking, likening the pro
cess to farting; One Way To Leave Your 
Lover, with its unusual advice; Mad 
At My Mother, paroding disrespect of 
parents; and Excuse Me with its joking 
criticism of stage crews.
Grandmothers Song not only proves 
that if Steve Martin ever wanted to give 
up comedy that he could be a singer or 
combine it with his quick pickin banjo 
playing to have his own variety show, but 
it ranges its suggestions from Boy Scout 
ideals to the absurd. The song starts tell
ing you to be courteous, kind and 
thoughtful and to love your neighbors. 
It then takes subtle transition till it peaks 
with be pompous, obese and threedimensional, criticize things you dont 
know about and put a live chicken in 
your underwear.
Steve Martin says it best about his kind 
of comedy when he relates, Its about 
individuals and how distorted their 
thoughts can get . . . and how you have to
HOMECOMING 
WITH MANCIONE
Se 67d pNtbb
AB Concerts will be presenting Chuck 
Mangione with the Chuck Mangione 
Quartet on October 7 at 8:00 p.m. in 
Carnegie Music Hall. This is the Home
coming Concert. The Quartet includes 
Chris Uadala on the saxophones and 
flutes, Grant Geissman on guitars, 
Charles Meens on bass, and James 
Bradley, Jr. on the drums. Mangione 
pulls it all together with himself on the 
electric piano and the flugelhom.
Mangione describes his relationship with 
his quartet as a quarterback with a great 
backfield. He goes on They come out 
to play every day like theyre a team. 
There is no star. Everyones playing not 
to see how good they sound alone 
but how good the music sounds together.
Chuck Mangione is a brilliant composer/ 
arranger/producer. Hes presently the rage 
of the contemporary music scene. His 
recent album Dt7, pm11M1 documents 
his amazing ability to play the flugel
hom like nobody else.
Critics have hailed him as being not only 
a noteworthy force in the progressive 
jazz field, but also for being a superlative 
instrumentalist. Its been said that his 
music defies categorization. It is jazzoriented, but lacks the extensive improvi
sation found in jazz. It utilizes electric 
instruments and rock rhythms, but the 
melodic compositions do not have the 
heavy sound of rock or even the jazzrock.
Tickets for this evening are on sale at 
the Skibo Information Desk for $4.00 
with ID.
THE PERFECT SOLUTION
To Help Spread Your Food Budget 
To Supplement Your Meal Contract 
To Avoid Carrying Cash All Over 
Campus
Take Advantage Of This Very Special
SALE
THE FOOD SERVICE COUPON
GOOD AT ANY FACILITY
$20 worth of coupons - Regularly  $19 Now $18 
$10 worth of coupons - Regularly $9.50 Now $9
MAY BE PURCHASED AT THE BOOK STORE 
OR SKIBO RM 62 
OFFER GOOD THROUGH TUESDAY, OCT. 18th.
Wi.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
CMU's defense, as shown here, proved dominant along the line of scrimmage.
just in bounds at CWRs 25 yard line.
One play later, Kennedy handed off to 
Gasior, who broke through the line for a 
25 yard T.D. run. Kostics P.A.T. was good 
and CMU was in fron 180.
An interception by Caine and Pat Olivos 
fumble recovery thwarted two Case drives, 
leaving CMU with a commanding lead at 
half time.
Case had more success moving the ball 
in the second half. Mixing running plays 
with an occasional flare to fullback Bob 
Herald, CWR moved into Tartan territory 
before Jim Dickinson and Mark Demo 
sacked Wilson, forcing Case to punt. Four 
plays later Case got the ball back and drove 
to the CMU 16 yard line, before Romeo 
Selano mssed a 33 yard field goal. Pat
Olivo made the big play that stopped the 
drive when he knocked down a Wilson 
pass intended for Alan Malik at the 10 yard 
line. Both teams exchanged punts several 
times before Case started its only scoring 
drive. Wilson passed to Herald for 13 yards, 
and then a pass interference call moved the 
ball 30 yards upfield to the Tartan 10 
yard line. On third and four Wilson found 
his favorite receiver Herald in the end zone 
for a four yard T.D. pass. Don Stoebe 
sacked Wilson in the two point attempt 
and CWR trailed 18-6 with 9:27 left in 
the game.
CMUs last score came when the Tartans 
fumbled on Cases 11 yard line, and Mik 
Rogan recovered for CWR. On the last play 
continued on page 23
put the ball in CMUs 49 yard line. Facing 
I ^a third and long, Rick Brown dropped back 
and hit Craig Hladick on a 29 yard pass 
completion. As Hladik was about to be 
tackled, the ball was jarred loose and Rick 
Leamon recovered 5 yards upfield. It was 
here that the Spartans showed why defense 
was their forte as they held CarnegieMellon to no gain on the next three plays, 
and CMU settled for a 25 yard field goal by 
Mike Kostic.
Case didnt appear to be awed, as they 
promptly marched down to the Tartan 
28 yard line before a 45 yard field goal 
went wide to the right. On their next series 
Case threatened again, but Caine stepped 
in front of a Cliff Wilson pass for the 
second of histhree interceptions this year, 
returning the ball 17 yards to CMUs 41 
yard line.
CANEPA. TECH GET FIRSTS
by Steve Birke
The crowd came early this year.
They must have remembered last years 
tie-up at the gates. They must have sensed 
that Keith Hordatt was ready for some 
more attacks on John Carrolls net. They 
must have known that Johnnie Hunt was 
going to give John Carroll a clinic in ballhandling. They definately wanted to 
see what the new coach had to offer.
Well, no one left the stadium disap
pointed.
Coach Gene Klein was feeling good 
about winning his first game. George 
Canepa, a second-year fullback out of 
Concord, Mass. was happy to be theshot just wide of the post in CMU's openingForward Keith Hordatt shoots a quick volley 
game. Pat Crump (2) looks on.Coaches, PKA, ATO On Top
by Joseph Kozak
Defending champion PIKA kicked off 
the 77 season by squeaking by SAE,
20-16. The first half of play saw PIKA 
plagued by bad snaps from center and 
an exchange of punts by both teams. 
SAE scored a safety as PIKA snapped 
it into the endzone to make it 2-0 at the 
half.
SAE opened the second half with 
QB Jim Schiffman tossing a bomb to 
Terry Hanna, setting up the touchdown 
to Chitters Pickering. PIKA rumbled 
right back with a quick TD pass from 
Shrub Treleaven to French, making the 
score 9-7. On the next play, Pete Kullen 
intercepted to set up Treleaven and Martineaug again. The SAE offense held 
steady and Schiffman connected to 
Fountain to make the score 16-14. PIKA 
reared back again, Treleaven to Steve 
Ament! to score the winning points.
continued on page 23
SAE's Jim Trithart picks up short yardage against PKA 
PKA after a shaky start won 20-16.
in both teams season opener.
teams leading scorer (on a blast to John 
Carrolls net with eight minutes left in the 
second half)- The John Carroll goaltender 
was even happy, because his best friend, 
the goal-post, had saved him on at least 
five occasions.
Amy Cook, one of the CMU goalies, 
commented after the game that John 
Carroll played like a bunch of women. 
Nevertheless, there were some good CMU 
performances.
Bob Sikora had a terrific game as 
fullback. Tough and aggressive, Sikora has 
been coming up with game-saving plays 
for over a year now.
Tom Binnie, showing why he is one of 
the teams tri-captains, pushed the team 
upfield and taught John Carroll the defini
tion of putting-out.
Colorful Collin Clement proved he was 
good enough to start on the forward line, 
and Bill Bassett, Mark Walters and Frenchy 
Martineau proved they were good enough 
to get their names mentioned in this 
article.
Final Score:
CMU -1 John Carro11 - 0
TARTANS VICTORIOUS-CASE CLOSED
Carnegie-Mellons relentless ground 
game combined with a big play defense, 
proved to be too much for the host team as 
the Tartans whipped Case-Western 256. 
Borrowing a page from Woody Hayes 
playbook, fullback Bob Gasior carried the 
^ptll 30 times out of a total of 68 offensive 
plays, gaining 136 yards in the process.
Meanwhile the defense was busy inter
cepting 4 passes, two of them by junior 
Tac Caine, and they also recovered 2 fum
bles.
After Perry Colosimo returned Cases 
opening kickoff 19 yards to the 29, the 
Tartans went to the ground. On third 
*md six, Ralph David ran 12 yards in a 
draw play. Two successive runs by Gasior
Bob Kennedy relieved Brown, and in his 
second offensive series, drove the team 40 
yards for a touchdown. After Kennedy 
ran an option for 10 yards, Gasior im
pressed the crowd with his reckless method 
of running, hurdling tacklers on six straight 
running plays, His last carry of the drive 
was a one yard burst with Pete Rothermel 
making an excellent block that allowed 
Gasior to score. Case didnt scout CMU 
very, well, as the Tartan pulled the same 
trick 2 point play as was successful against 
Cal. St. This time Hladik ran it in as the 
Spartans didnt notice CMUs huddle 
was far to the left. This made the score 
11-0.
With 5:13 left in the first half, Rick 
Lackner jumped in front of a Wilson pass

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANSeptember 27, 1977
HARRIERS CORRAL FOES
by M.A.
Carnegie-Mellons cross country team 
stormed through Schenley Park last week, 
leaving in its wake, hapless Allegheney 
and Bethany Colleges. In last Wednesdays 
race, the Tartans took seven of the first 
nine places, and defeated Bethany by a 
score of 16-47, and Allegheney by 17-46.
Dario Donatelli of C-MU won the 4.8 
mile race in a time of 25:24, setting the 
standard for exceptional performances by 
the entire team. Steve Faloon cruised into 
second place in 25:44, followed closely by 
a revived Steve Crelli. Running his first 
race of the season, sophmore Jim Biery 
showed no signs of the foot injury that had 
sidelined him until now. Biery took fifth 
place. Gordon, Daly, and Vukoder ran 
their best races to date, and began to close 
the gap behind their front-running team
mates. The success of any team rides on 
the ability of the pack to so assert 
itself in competition.
After last weeks stinging upset. Coach 
Meckley was especially pleased with his
The success of any team rides on the ability of the "pack" to assert itself in competition and CMU is 
highly ranked because of their ability to finish together and fast.
runners performances. In his pre-race 
conference he stressed the importance of 
running aggressively and of taking advan
tage of the home course. Judging by the
results of the meet. Techs harriers turned 
Meckleys words into reality.
This Saturday the team will travel to
Indiana, Pa. for their first appearance in 
the Indiana Invitational. At this race, 
Carnegie-Mellon can expect to face some of 
the finest teams in the state. On the fol
lowing Saturday, C-MU will host their 
nemesis, Case Western in what should be 
the hottest contest in the PAC.NETTERS DROP OPENER
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellons womans tennis team 
suffered a narrow 3-2 defeat at the hands 
a talented Seton Hill squad. Coach Peggy 
Russells crew opening game loss was their 
first in the newly formed Penn-Wood 
Conference.
Sophomore Denise Ryan and junior 
Mary Piasecki won important singles 
matches by the scores of 6-1, 6-2 and 7-5 
6-2 respectively. Sophomore Karen
Wiederharn lost her singles battle 7-5, 6-2.
Inexperience hurt the Tartans in the 
double matches as Alice Sexton and 
Diana Hulik and Joan Andrews and Gina 
Mirigliano both were taken in straight sets.
The doubles teams were composed of 
players who had never played an inter
collegiate match before.
Mrs. Russell commented on the seasons 
outlook . She said,  We lost a lot of good 
players from last season. Our lack of 
experience seems to be our main pro
blem.
The girl netters have two matches at 
home this week. The TaTtans take on 
Carlow at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday and 
Duquense on Monday at 4:30 pjn.
Coach Russells men bombers open up 
a tough fall schedule this Friday at 2:00 
p.m. with a home match against Du
quense. The Tartans also face stiff compe
tition in the persons of Robert Morris,
Youngstown, and California State.
Mrs. Russell feels that she has one of 
the best groups of freshmen ever at CMU. 
She said,  Were a young team, but were 
much improved from last season. The play
ers are much more competitive this year.
Leading candidates for spots in the fall 
starting lineup include senior Gary Kemeny 
; juniors Jim Crisman, and Marc Silver; 
sophomores Dave Kirby, Joe Marotti, 
Ralph Peters, Mike Straub, and John Sze; 
and freshmen Chris Kopchak, Greg Maskarinaec, Andy Rudoff, Brian Wolf, and 
Gary Winter.
Intramurals : 
Under Way
by Paul Duff
The Intramural sports program is in full 
swing once again under the direction of Mr, 
Earl J. Birdy. The 33 activities of previous 
years are all still scheduled with the addi
tion of Darts and Backgammon. Also nevrto the program are two board members 
representing the women of the campus.. 
These additions were made by last year%^ 
IM board before the close of their term.. 
The IM Board for the academic year 1977 
to 1978 consists of:
OFFICERS:
Pres. - Paul Duff (BTP)
V.P. - Bob McNall (ZBT)
Sec.  Glenn Giacobbe (BTP)
BOARD MEMBERS:
Fraternities 
D.U.  Ken Bosche 
K.S.  Gary Takahashi 
P.K.A.  Rob Jatkoff 
P.K.T.  Keith Ross
S.A.E.  Dave Chandler
S.N.  Mark Gozion ^
Grads  Mike Pochan 
At Large  Sanford Rivers 
Officials Club  Steve Belahich 
Dorms 
Hill - Jan Billik 
Donner Hall  Rich Tucker 
E-Tower  Bob Firm 
Women 
D.G.  Gwen Reese 
Dorms  Abby Selman 
At its meeting of Sept. 13 this board 
passed a constitutional amendment to 
allow 2 ex-varsity lettermen on touch foot
ball rosters. The general feeling on this 
precedent setting vote (7-6) was that more 
students would be able to play without 
continued on page 23
Hockey Heartbreak
by Lynn Ritter
The CMU women's field hockey team 
played its season opener on Saturday at 
the Bethany field under threatening skies. 
The weather held long enough to get 
in a tight, well played, closely matched 
game with a lone freak goal by Bethany 
midway through the first half. The rest 
of the game was end to end play.
CMU scored what looked like a goal, 
only to be disallowed for the shot ori
ginating outside of the circle by inches. 
Promising play was shown by many of the
newcomers to the team (and the game) 
as well as strong support from the more 
experienced players. We saw a lot of 
hustle and had a good time.
Well be looking for those extra in
ches this week when we meet the CMU 
Hockey Club for an exhibition game 
Tuesday on the Fine Arts field, followed 
by home games (also on the Fine Arts 
field) on Wednesday against Chatham 
at 4:30 P.M.; and Friday against Wash
ington and Jefferson at 5 P.M. Come 
on out and lend vocal support!
BACK BY 
POPULAR DEMAND
THE LATE. LATE THURSDAY 
NIGHT MOVIES
--~
TAR ,
CMU SOCCER*
CMU v.s. PITT 
DATE-TODAY 
TIME* 3:30pm
October
November
December
2Dodes *ka-den6. 9
6LOVE & Anarchy6. 8:15. 10:30
13Wild Strawberries6,8. 10
20Potemkin7, 8:30, 10
27Cabinet of Dr. Caligari6, 8, 10
3The Tenant6, 8:30, 11
10In Cold Blood6, 8:45, 11:15
17Mary Queen of Scots6, 8:30, 11
1Delusion of the Fury6, 8, 10
8Everyman for Himself6, 8:30, 11
15Weekend6, 8:15, 10:30
Due to an overwhelming number of requests for an additional 
showing of Thursday Film Arts Movies, the above list has been 
revised showing new late show times.
* Remember. Thursaay Film Arts Passes ere on sale a* the Sklbo In
formation desk for only $6.00.
