VOL. XIV. No. 28.
SEVENTEENTH ANNUAL 
REPORT OF PRESIDENT
The following extracts from the 
Seventeenth Annual Report, submitt
ed by President Hamerschlag to the 
Committee of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, will be of interest to 
all connected with the school. It 
shows a deep appreciation for all our 
founder did for us, as well as express
ing the needs of the institution in a 
way which cannot but assure the stu
dent body that the writer has their 
best interests at heart.
The report follows:
Gentlemen:  On November 15, 
1900, nearly twenty years ago, An
drew Carnegie wrote his letter of gift 
in which he stated:
For many years I have nursed 
the pleasing thought that I might 
be the fortunate giver of a Tech 
nical Institute to our city, fash
ioned upon the best models, for I 
know of no institution which Pitts
burgh, as an industrial centre, so
much needs.............If the city of
Pittsburgh will furnish a site, 
which I hope will be of ample size 
for future extensions, I shall be 
delighted to provide the money for 
such a school, taking care to pro
vide room for additions to the 
buildings, to meet the certain 
growth of Pittsburgh...... 
Our Founder had not only a vision, 
and an understanding of the need for 
technical education in this district, but 
in his letter he calls attention to the 
splendid service which other institutes 
of technology have rendered to their 
constituencies. In naming the most 
prominent of these he defines in gen 
eral terms the scope and quality of 
the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, Worchester Polytechnic Insti
tute, Drexel, Pratt, and Armour, and 
recalls his pleasure in visiting those 
in Great Britain and Newfoundland.
No one can read this letter without 
discerning an intimate personal inter
est in the subject of technical edu
cation, with a fine willingness not to 
bind the future of the institution in 
too narrow or prescribed a field of 
service. Within a month other letters 
were written by him which show in
creasing enthusiasm for the project.
One of these letters is reprinted 
here in full because it does not ap
pear in our official publications. It 
convey? in unmistakable terms a 
prophecy for the future and a faith 
in the extension and growth of the 
community and of the Carnegie bene
factions in Pittsburgh.
New York,
15th December, 1900. 
W. N. Frew, Esq.,
President Board of Trustees, 
Carnegie Institute.
Dear Mr. Frew:The ground 
fronting on Forbes Street west of 
the ravine, if approved by the 
Board, would be highly satisfactory 
to me, as the site for the Technical 
School. I am sure that too much
ground cannot be obtained in that 
connection; and since the City has 
authority to get this piece I hope it 
will do so.
Some, day, however, not perhaps 
in our time, great will be the regret 
that these Carnegie Institutions did 
not get even more ground around 
them. We build, my friend, for 
posterity. The situation of Pitts
burgh in the Central West between 
the Atlantic and the Mississippi 
Valley, ensures its growth. The 
Twentieth Century is to see more 
than two millions of people around 
the court-house, known as Pitts
burgh. The Carnegie Institutions 
will have funds to spend sufficient 
to keep them abreast of the in
creasing population.
Very respectfully yours, 
ANDREW CARNEGIE.
Can we read these remarkable 
words, penned a score of years ago, 
without being thrilled by the majesty 
of the conception, and by the writers 
whole hearted acceptance of the re
sponsibility for this great undertak
ing?
Later, Andrew Carnegie brought in
to existence many other altruistic en
terprises in his desire to aid mankind 
in its search for knowledge and to 
improve the outlook for future gen
erations. In all of his gifts he show
ed a breadth and liberality which re
fused to recognize geagraphical limi
tations, race, creed, or privilege.
He established the Carnegie Hero 
Fund to recognize heroism through
out the world; the Carnegie Institu
tion at Washington for scientific re
search; the Carnegie Foundation for 
the Advancement of Teaching to pro
vide pensions; the Carnegie Peace 
Foundation to help humanity under
stand the awful penalty of wars; the 
Carnegie Libraries to make illiteracy 
unnecessary; and he gave church or
gans and promoted the union of the 
churches to bring harmony into the 
spiritual life of the people.
These and many other gifts testify 
to his wisdom and far-sighted philanthrophy, but here in Pittsburgh he
(Ehf Sari an
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.MAY 5, 1920.
ACCIDENT LOSES FIRST PUCE FOR RELAY TEAM
BrumbaughSuccumbs to OverExertion and Nervous Strain.
An unfortunate trend of affairs at 
Philadelphia last Saturday was the 
cause of the Plaid Relay teams los
ing first place, in what started off to 
be a record-breaking race.
Russell the first runner for Tech 
started off as if in a 220 dash and 
held a lead of about fifteen yards 
against Gettysburg and F. & M. who 
were picked to place in the meet. The 
witnesses in the stand were given a 
jolt at the first quarters end when 
Kelly for the Plaid, tore off like a 
madman maintaining the lead secured by Russell.
The unfortunate thing happened in 
the third quarter of the race. Brum
baugh started off well but at about the 
end of 220 yards gave way to Stevens 
of George Washington. Turning to 
view the field which was pressing him 
hard, he fell prone to the ground and 
seemed to be in great pain. Capt. 
Schmidt waiting for the baton at the 
tape about 200 yards distant, after he 
realized that Brumbaugh could not 
rise rushed down the track and picked 
him up. After he was examined by 
the doctors he was carried off the field by the team.
The authorities said that it was a 
case of over-exertion which robbed 
him of any chance to rise again.
It was a death blow to Techites 
because victory looked sure. Capt. 
Schmidt did not get his chance to run 
in his last race for Tech at the Relays. 
Every one is sure that Schmidt would 
have pulled thru and won. The entire 
track team will journey to N. V. U. 
next Saturday and we hope no acci
dent will mar the results.
founded the greatest of all his bene
factions, destined to be an ever-living 
memorial to his faith in the youth of 
the land. He knew that each year 
the Institute of Technology would 
call to its doors thousands of young 
men and women who, in seeking to 
educate themselves, would renew the 
vitality of the race and who would 
bring trained intelligence into the 
maelstrom of human strife.
After fourscore years of devoted 
service to his fellow-men our Founder 
has passed away; but his spirit has 
become inter-woven in this institution.
The seal of the corporation carries 
with it the last words of his original 
letter of giftMy heart is in the 
work. Thousands of the young men 
and women who have been recipients 
of his beneficence will year by year 
renew this pledge, always responsive 
to the changes in education, and al
ways growing in the spirit of serv
ice. The dream of a great man will thus be realized.
Mr. Carnegies constant desire to 
penetrate the future and foresee its 
needs is shown in all his letters of gift. 
It is an outstanding characteristic 
which must be evident to any one.
If the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology is to go forward with the othed educational institutions of the 
country, it must have new funds. We 
possess as our heritage the Founders 
enthusiasm and a program inaugur
ated, supplemented and extended by 
him. Therefore, a policy of retrench
ment and curtailment cannot be con
tinued indefinitely, if we are to be true to our trust.
We ought to have approximately 
two and a half million dollars a year 
for ten years; two millions of it in 
endowment, the revenue of which 
would care for adjustments in sal
aries and instructional expenses; the 
other half million as needed to com
plete the facilities, buildings and 
campus-environment which should be 
planted and beautified as a suitable setting for the institution.
This may seem to be a high estimate 
but if we needed a million a year for 
similar purposes from 1905 to 1912, 
with the purchasing power of money 
more than double what it is today, 
these figures are conservative.
We must retain the ablest men in 
the profession as members of our fac
ulty, and this can only be done by 
paying them competitive salaries. We 
must acquire the needed laboratory 
equipment and provide suitable rec
reational facilities, including athletic 
fields, an adequate gymnasium, a cen
tral college library, and an assembly 
hall of sufficient size to accommodate 
all the students. These are necessary 
even though we do not increase the registration.
I trust we can expect the continued 
cooperation of the Carnegie Corpora
tion of New York in providing these 
funds, and if their support is main
tained for a number of years, there 
can be little doubt that in time con
tributions from other sources will be
gin to supplement their appropria
tions and increase our resources. 
ARTHUR T. HAMERSCHLAG,
Side Show Performers and Freaks 
Already Appearing For Tech Circus
Two-Headed Horse and Prehistoric
Man Reach the Campus.
See Beano, the Snake-Eater, Nuff Said.
get together a stupendous collection 
of world-wide wonders.
For the more serious minded of the 
Side-Show patrons, Craig, the Master 
Mind, will devote hours to the answer
ing of any questions asked him. This 
modern Solomon will sit enthroned in 
a separate pavillion and will relieve 
all anxious questioners with his wise 
advice. He sees allv knows all, and 
is declared to be the only successful 
rival of the world-renowned Ouija.
There will also be two musical fea
tures: a troupe of Russian court bal
let dancers, allowed in this country 
only through the courtesy of the Bolsheviki; and a minstrel show straight 
from the levees of sunny New Or
leans.
Ferro (with a valence of 2) is busy 
supervising the construction of a new 
bed of needle-point spikes. Ferro, the 
man with the iron skin, was born in 
Freeport. Since he was two months 
old he has been bathing daily in the 
Allegheny River. His skirf soon be
came impregnated with the iron 
oxides with which the water of that 
river is saturated; and as a result 
of having such hard skin this iron
clad human being only enjoys sleep
ing on a bed of sharply pointed nails 
capable of bringing blood to even the 
skin of the hardest Soho tough.
There will also be presented a giant, 
the tallest of the tall, and a dwarf, 
the smallest of the small.
Save your pennies for the Tech Cir
cus. And remember that no trip to 
the circus is worth while without a 
visit to the side show.
The boys dormitories have been 
thrown into great confusion by the 
arrival of hundreds of live, wiggling 
snakesfood for Beano, the Snake 
Eater, of the great Tech Circus. 
Beano as to have a special tent of 
his own carefully screened in so that 
none of his active reptile food can 
escape his snake?hungry jaws, and 
this precaution must be carefully tak
en for the manager of this terrible 
glutton of the jungle assures us that 
Beano consumes no less than a dozen 
of the crawling monsters every day 
this being his only diet. Beano him
self has not yet arrived on the campus 
but he is expected within a very few 
days. His manager put in his appear
ance on Monday and with him came 
two wonders of nature in a two-head
ed horse and a prehistoric man. These 
unusual freakish marvels have baffled 
the scientific investigations of hun
dreds of the worlds foremost physio
logists ;and it has only been through 
the zealous efforts of C. J. Copley, 
manager of the Side Show, that the 
patrons of the Tech Circus are to 
have the privilege of seeing such awe
inspiring spectacles. And yet these 
are only a few of the many wonders 
of the age that are to be presented 
for the approval of the critical Tech 
audience during Campus Week. The 
manager, realizing that Tech students 
demand only the best of everything, 
is negotiating with the leading circus 
promoters of the country in order to
LAUDS STMT WORKERS
 Hard to Overestimate the 
Value of Their Service, He 
Says
Dr. A. A. Hamerschlag, president of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
has received the following letter from 
Mr. Samuel Rea, president of the 
Pennsylvania Railroad Company: 
Now that the critical transporta
tion situation, caused by many of our 
employes leaving their positions, has 
in a large measure passed, I want to 
express, on behalf of the officers of 
the Pennsylvania System, thanks and 
appreciation for the assistance rend
ered us in the emergency by the stu
dents of your institution.
We are deeply grateful for your co
operation in milking1 it possible for 
your undergraduates to temporarily 
leave their studies, and to the boys, 
who from a sense of public duty, so 
whole-heartedly threw themselves in
to the breach and enabled us to cope 
with the conditions that threatened to 
disrupt the public servie.
It would be hard to over-estimate 
the value of the service performed by 
these young men, and the vigor and 
aptitude with which they applied 
themselves to their new duties was a 
marvel to their supervisory officers.
Out of all the developments of the 
past ten days or more, it is certainly 
heartening to those of us who are en
deavoring to make transportation a 
success, to realize how firmly behind 
us in ouiefforts is the great mass of 
the thinking public, the institutions of 
learning and outside industry. 
----------D----------
CAMPUS WEEK CIRCUS
The Sophomores of Division of In
dustries held another resignation 
meeting on Friday, April 30, at 1 p. m.
The meeting opened with President 
Kann in the chair. Cunningham, of 
Science, talked about the circus, and 
the soph stunt; after this the regular 
business -was attended to.
Kann resigned as President and 
Godden was selected for the remain
der of the year. Shanno Longwell, 
and Hess were elected as members of 
the 1920-21 Thistle Board.
Since the beginning of the year 
there haa been an antagonistic feel
ing between the Sophomores and 
middle classes and this meeting prov
ed to be the climax. The middle?*
The banquet of the Junior Class of 
the three mens schools will be held at 
the Lincoln Club, Thursday, May 6, 
at 7 p. m. A good program has been 
arranged by the committee and some 
surprises are promised in the way of 
entertainment. Each section in Sci
ence and the classes of Design and 
ceceded from the Soph Union, each j Industry will present a section stunt.
lied Lemonade, Pop, Tech Bevorages, Hot Dogs, Cones, Ice Cream, 
Candy, Peanuts, Pop Corn, Tech Bal
loons and Pennants, Confetti, Crick
ets, Canes, ICewpie Dolls and all the 
other trimmings that come and go 
with successful circuses and side 
shows will be at your service at Techs 
Big Circus. Also during the entire 
Campus Week refreshment stands 
will be located in convenient places 
about the campus so you neednt 
worry about being hungry and noth
ing to eat, or being thirsty and noth 
ing to drink.
The Margaret Morrison Y. W. C. 
A. will have a stand in front of tin 
Hut Library where you can buy be
sides ice cream, pop and sandwiches, 
good home-made pies, doughnuts, 
akes ancl candy.
The Athletic Association has been 
granted the privilege of selling all re
freshments during the entire Campus 
Week and all profits will he turne 
over to the General Athletic Fund 
which has been so handsomely sup
ported by the students and organiza
tions of Tech of late, and which still 
needs our hearty cooperation and sup 
port. The purchasing and selling of 
refreshments will be supervised by 
Mr. Frank Haaron, our new Graduate 
Manager and Mr. Wm. Finkel of the 
Athletic Council who have appointed 
Mr. H. G. Nichol, under graduate 
member of the Athletic Council to 
take charge of working out all the de 
tails connected with the refreshment 
concessions.
SEVNSETTHNA EUELR
HAMPERED BY RAIN
The game with Bethany last Wed
nesday was cancelled after the numer
ous sprinklers by Jupiter Pluvious. 
The Bethany team practiced for some 
time on the field even tho the game 
had been called off.
The next game is scheduled to take 
place on Thursday and it is hoped 
that the rainman will be idle that 
day for we have waited a long time to 
see the team in action.
THREE SCHOOL JUNIOR BANQUET
#11)1(1 CLUB'S ACTIVITIES
Editor's Jazz Music Transmit
ted by Wireless
to be separate organizations. Gafvert 
resigned from the regulations com
mittee and Cousino as publicity man.
Let us hope that, with the inaugu
ration of a new administration, tho 
Plebes will be chastised somewhat 
President. | more than they have been in the past.
A prize vill be given to the section 
providing the best entertainment. 
Tickets may be procured from Crosby 
or Diercks in Design, Rudisill or Guy
ton in Industries and the section 
representatives in Science. Here's for 
a good feed and a big time.
The Radio Club of Carnegie Tech 
came into the limelight last Saturday 
when they staged the best radio-con
cert that has been given in this dis
trict to the writers knowledge it is 
the first of its kind in history.
On Saturday afternoon Corderman 
and Kauffman two of its most active 
members procured some wire and con
nected a telephone transmitter in the 
Union to the Signal Corps Radio-Tel
ephone set which is located in the 
Tower of Machinery Hall.
The music furnished by Dutch 
Emerichs Jazzbo Quintet was trans
mitted in all directions from Carnegie 
Tech by radio. Previous experiments 
have proven that this music could be 
heard at a distance of fifty miles. 
Many reports have come in that the 
music was very much enjoyed by all 
concerned. Incidentally, Pitt heard it 
too. Arent they grand.
The next regular mooting of the 
club will be held in Room 104, Ma
chinery Hall on the evening of Tues
day, May 11 at 7:30 p. m. Member
ship blanks for joining* the American 
Institute of Radio Engineers will be 
available at that time. Come and 
bring your friends.
A short business meeting will be 
held at 7:00 p. m. to elect officers for 
next year. All members: come out for this meeting.
STUDENT PRESENTS PATENT 
HE WORKED OUT HERE
The following letter, received rc 
cently by President Hamerschlag, 
shows the attitude of one of Techs 
students toward his Alma Mator. Th< 
patent specification which was at 
tached is of a practical Electrical 
radiator which shows a good deal of 
inventive genius.
The letter reads:
Mr. A. A. Hamerschlag,
President of C. I. of 1.
Allow me to present you this copy 
of a patent granted by the United 
States Patent Office on an electrical 
radiator 1 worked out in your institute.
Please accept it as one of the re
sults of tho education I enjoyed here 
and as a respectful ncincmhrancc of one of your students.
ROBERT BONNAVAL.
"CF HUNGERS ENTERTAINS 
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
Well, he had another bang-up As
sembly last Wednesday. Whos that".
Dean Morris, of course. He said that 
he couldnt be at the M. M. I). Home 
Concert, so ho was going to have the 
Glee Club sing at some assembly, ancl they did that.
The Glee Club started the festivi
ties with a selection from Beethoven, 
and one from Wagner; well it was. 
good, but we can understand Cohen
and Jolson, and a few of those birds f ... . , .
 little better, <> one of the mnK x wlth nuxt ymr  mn'0rHand acted, Nobody Knows. I wont 
try to describe how her victim look
ed or felt, but ask Dennis, he knows.
Miss Hazen who played the violin, 
came in for her share of applause.
Say, listen do you know Snoodlos, 
his pa, his ma, his girl Susie, and his 
dog? Well, if you read the Post or
INTERFRATERNITY DANCE 
AT HOTEL SCHENLEY 
A
The second inter-fraternity dance 
of the year wd.s held last Thursday, 
April 29th, in JLjie ballroom of the 
Hotel Schenley. The dance was in
formal in character .and judging from 
the host present was ihe most suc
cessful ever held. Maggie furnished 
the music so the high stepper* should 
have ample cause to rejoice.
The intermission took the form of 
an entertainment consisting of sing
ing and a reading was enjoyed by all.
A cordial invitation to attend was 
extended to all national fraternity 
men not having chapters at Carnegie. 
The committee consisted of M. W. 
Pohlmoyer, Sigma Rho; G, Darden, 
Theta Xi; H. C. Brockman, Sigma 
Nu; W. S. Bennett, Woodlawn Club; 
L. Rockwell, Xi Sigma Epsilon; W, 
Ravenstcroft, Sigma Tlpha Epsilon 
and .1. Cahill, Tau Gamma Phi.
H. & V. MEN CHALLENGE ALL SECTION TEAMS
During the early spring the mem
bers of the Department of Heating 
and Ventilating organized a baseball 
team. A. S. Frutchy was elected man
ager and Bliss, captain. The man
ager now challenges any and all sec
tional teams in the Division of In
dustries and will be glad to arrange 
for games at their convenience. The 
team has a strong line-up which is 
as follows:
Myars C, Bliss (Capt) I, Haneman 
IB, Britton 2B, Frutchy SB Fine S. S., 
Kelly CF, Palkor li F, Wallace L F.
THE M. M. D. CANTEEN
Do you know when tho little Y. M. 
C. A. hut is? Well, if you dont, youd 
betfcer find out and come around dur
ing Campus week. Youll find a bevy 
of beautiful Margaret Morrison girls 
serving colfee if its cold, and ginger 
ale or pop if it's hot. Besides that, 
youll discovor things that taste good 
no matter what the temperature. And 
the old woman in the shoe? Shell 
have anything you want, from shoe
laces to hair-nets. Forgot for Campus 
Weew Lhut it Is a Y. M. hutboost 
our Y. W.
PROF. CALDERWOOD ENTERTAINS 
INDUSTRIES, SENIORS AND UPPERS
On the evening of Tuesday, April 
27, IProf. Coldowood, head of the De
partment of Electric Equipment and Construction, entertained the Seniors 
and Uppers of bis course at a delight
ful lunchean in his homo. As tho 
hoys stowed away rafts of sandwiches, 
cake, salads, Ice cream, and copious 
draughts of coffee, Mrs. Coldewood 
sang several solos in a commendable 
style, Mr. Coldewood accompanied 
her with tho piano.One fellow, in speaking for tho, 
crowd said that the only fault he 
find was that he couldnt be here to
FOUNDERS DAY.
The twenty-fourth annual celebraVOLO of Founders' Day of Carnegie 
jlnrttitute was held at the Music Hall, 
Thursday, April 21). The exercises 
were opened by Col. Samuel Harden 
Churtih, who reviewed the career of 
Andite*/ Carnegie and deplored theSun, you know them, and you also j josses :to the Institute in the deaths 
know that Cy Hungerford is the 0f j)r. John Brashear and EnochDaddy-of-em-all.
Needless to say, theiie is always a 
headliner to every show. Cy was 
the headliner to ours. At first he 
seemed out of place among that ovw*ralled crew, with his long hair, smock, 
and flowing tie, but he soon lost his 
backwardness. With the aid of an 
improvised easel, some paper, and 
crayon he drew some cartoons on 
present day topics, all the while ex
plaining the mysterious of comic art. 
Next, he drew some pictures of the 
faculty, we were in doubt as to one 
of them, some thought it; was Bill 
Pfouts and others thought it was W. 
J. Bryan, but Cy settled the argument 
he said it was Bill Pfouta all right. 
He drew Dad Whyte's picture as the 
original Scotchman in kilbs; Dad said 
it brought back memories of his days 
in the Highland Society* School in 
Scotland.
Mr. Hungerford was so pleased \fith 
the appreciation of hi spectators, 
that he promised to come again.---------Q--------
M. M. D. STUNT
Saturday night, May 15th while 
the alumni are banqucutiing and the 
fraternities smoking, M.. 'M. D. ia go
ing to have fun all by ifjself. LVp in 
the gym there will be a fushion ihow, 
some fancy dancing, a salilors c horus 
and music by the Glee Club.
Rauh.Rev. Dr. Samuel H. Goldenson then 
pronounced an invocation, after which 
Dr. Maurice Francis Egan gave an 
.address on the .subject, America in 
t;he Diplomatic World. Dr. Egan 
.laid that Mr. Carnegie believed in 
peace and that all arguments between 
nations could be settled without re
sort to war, but con the other hand he 
realized that when all means had been 
tried t;o settle the dispute and failed, 
then wfar for the right was a ri^htoou 
thing and that no man should shrink 
in the defence of his liberty and his 
counti,*y from combat to the death.
A rleport on The Progress of the 
Year was then read by A. K. Oliver, 
secretary of the board of trustees. 
Threei selections were given by the 
Pittsburgh Male Chorus, after which 
Mr. rlemrath played on the orrran a 
toccata from Fifth Symphony by 
Widor.----------O----------The Athletic Association at the 
University of Vermont have hit upon 
a novel idea to prevent losses due to 
rain during the coming season. The 
pllan is 2is< folloiws: Insurance will be 
taken out for days on which games are 
scheduled, and in the event of a rain
fall of two-tenths of an inch or more, 
the insurance company will make good 
the amount that would normally be 
takjen in by j/jate receipts.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 192.THE TARTAN.PAGE TWO.
Published every week by urider^rwduuteH oi the Curnegie lriBtitute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Hoard.
UnUcred in the postoffice of Pittsburgh uh fcoud-cUutx mutter.A glance over our price will convince youthat you can buy high grade materials hero at a waving.
STEINER & VOEGTLY
HARDWARE COMPANY
230-234 Diamond St., 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.* ? *
LOSTA swimming medal. Finder 
please turn it in at Dean Tarbell's 
office.
FOUNDTwo-blade, gold-handled 
pen knife turned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, Friday, April 9th. Found on 
campus.? * *
FOUNDHancocks Applied Me
chanicsturned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, March 22, 1920.
FOUNDSmall gold pin in Carnegie 
Union April 19. Apply Dean Tar
bells office.* * *
LOSTA Theta Xi Fraternity Pin on 
Campus. Finder please return to D. 
B. Gawthrop, Science 20.* * *
FOUNDIn C. I. T. Library. Seeds 
Principles of Machine Drawing. 
Macmillans logarithmic and trig, 
tables (marked property of Baum 
Blvd. Terror. B. 13. T., come and get 
your book.) Miscellaneous odd 
gloves. Apply C. I. T. Library.* * *
Found:Fountain pen on Campus, 
April 30. Apply Office, Dean of Men.---------0----------GRAPHICA TO PRINT CARDS 
At last the Graphica has opened its 
latest campaign. This one had to deal 
with visiting cards, personal station
ary, book plates and the like. All these 
are submitted to the student body in 
several styles and each should find a 
design that suits his individual needs. 
The prices are reasonable and the 
workmanship the best. Watch our 
advertisements for more information 
or see any of us in the Department of 
Printing, Industries Building.
SUBSCRIPTION KATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.76Thin year $1.60
tt<Jitor-in-ChicfLcRoy E. Eracrich
Phone Hazel 9422
W. AllsworthUuaincoa ManagerI'hone Hazel 9425.
School Editors
M. M. D................Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Muculpine
Industries ..................... Ralph Shanno
Ann..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Auuistantu 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
I. M. Zebest I. T. Sissman
EDITORIAL
Manuring Editoi
L. K.. Piujuin
AiisiKtant Managing Editore 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Luke 
N twg Editor 
J. T. Amen 
Associate News Editor 
W. D. Hall
TRADE
MOST men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. 
There's comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and 
economy in a good pipe. W D C Pipes give you this, and 
more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French 
briar bowl break in sweet and mellow. Pick a good shape 
at your nearest dealers, at your price.
Wm. DEM UTH 8< CO.. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPESAthlctic Editor 
G. R. GoodrichBUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Siller
R. F. Lunger 
Win. Obenour
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager 
H. G. AtchleyELDORADOAdvertising Manager 
M. I. CohenThe Mellon National Bank la 
one of the moot thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
7//e master drawing pencil'
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixons 
Eldorado is a friend to be 
proud of.
. JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO. A VJcucil Dept. Jersey City, N. J. M
Canadian Ultlrlhnton 
A. R. UopDouinU h Co., Ltd. ik \\ Toronto
Room 162, DesignTARTAN OFFICEHours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Eclitor-in-Chiof is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the ignature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
XEADSoticfor every need or prvfaranca - -
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE
FOR YOUNG MEN AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNGII A 0100 Oohonley
I. A A. IMt-R
t2t ATWOOD 8TRKKT 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
.Meueeheld Qeedo Moved, Btorod, 
Paokod amd
CAMPUS WEEK
Heretofore, it was thought unnecessary to comment on this subject. 
(However, the committee, very dosirious of putting this event across, fear as 
to the extent of the student's support. II; would seem very foolish to plead 
on bended knee or some such position to the students as to the importance of their support.
Well, if it: dont go across this year you surely are cheated of a holiday 
season for years and years to come. True,, it is only an experiment but why 
not help Hi' committee out? Snap out of it and do what you are asked to 
do. You, who snicker and put on a sarcastic grin when Campus Week is talked about, are pure idiotic, foolish, bonelieads".
Think how great If will fool in years to come when you can come back 
to your class reunion in Campus Week. If you ever knew a Princeton, a Yale 
or Harvard Grad, you must know of their annual reunions, their stuntsthe 
success of if all. Why look for further proof. It will he a time you will never 
forget and incidentally our campus needs cleaning up-dont you think so? Help along.------#----
LAUGHING LAST
Pitt seems to claim credit for their idea of a good timeietting the 
Plaid pay for the music and the Pitt students dance by their novel discovery 
that music could be transmitted by Radio Telephone and received with the magnavox.
Isnt it peculiar that we knew it all the time and that we are improving 
it for Campus Week. Not mentioning sour grapes, it is unfortunate always 
that the real experimenter never gets the proper credit. The Panther surely 
has a drag with the newspapershasnt it?
Returning to our Campus, we wonder why such an efficient press-agenf 
could not be secured for Tech. If it is not the press-agent wheres the graft? Paper is never too scarce for Pitt news.
Third United ^- 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Putitor 
Shudy and Northumberland Avcnucn 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11 00 A. M, and H:0() 1\ M.Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Message. A cordial welcome to all.
Huhrf 01|ulrm Cttummijutuiu
Fifth and Morewood Avenues. 
Hninuol IX. Goldonnon, I'h. D., Itiihbl, 
Toniplo Study Toi., Sohonloy 27G. 
Sabbath Sorvicc, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Grace Church
(Reform d)
BAYARD end DITHRIDQE STREETS 
FREDERICK O. NAU, Mlnlotor. 
SERVICES:
Sunday Sahool9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A, M.Social hour and LuncTTeon for stu
dents, 15c, at 6 o'clock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
DEATH OF PLEBE CAP
Old Man Plebe Capp will pass out on or about May 13th. Yessir. Thats 
settled. The Old Man has been feeling bad for some time and just lately 
took a turn for the worse. Doc Marks was called but could not help him 
much. Doc immediately sent for specialists from New York, London, Paris 
and Bagdad. A long consultation was held and the decision was unanimous. 
The old mans case is so bad that he cant live a month. The date for his fun
eral has been set for May 13th and it is earnestly hoped by his heirs that he 
will be decidedly dead a day or so before that date. The entire school will 
go into mourning in honor of the event.
Design school will be the center of attraction both in actual interest and 
decorations. The foyer will be suitably draped and the casket will lay in state 
there for 48 hours prior to the funeral services. The services will be suit
ably elaborate as becomes one of such fame as this old man. There will 
be a parade and several orations. The funeral sermon will be delivered by 
Shaughnessy from the Department of Drama.
The Plebe Regulations Committee issued a guarantee that Plebe Kapp 
will sure die in time for the funeral, and requests that all his heirs be pres
ent for the reading of his will May 13, at 2:00 p. m.Contributed.
BELLSFIELD PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH 
Bellifleld and Fifth Avenuea
Rev. Robert MacQowan, D. D., ' 
Mlnlatar.
Preaohlnfl Servloea 11 and B. 
Sunday oohoel at 10.
, Chrloitlan Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boya to atlend our nervlcee and learn to ; 
know a Two the congregation oi < 
Frlondly Poopl*." A hearty ' W' loom* await* you
-Hea and workmanship are as imk 3 portant as the all-wool fabric 
Ip you select if you wish to add to your 
IR self respect and the confidence of 
others in you. Society Brand Clothes 
national reputation as the leader in 
style and careful hand-workmanship.
have a 
correct
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING 
THE MARKET, LOOK FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE
ALFRED DECKER A COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES, Limited, for Canada
Chicago New York Montreal
STUDENT CALENDAR
Mens Junior Banquet, Lincoln Club. 
-Baseball, Tech vs. Grove City, Tech Field. Tennis Dance, Union.
All Night Schools Dance, Arts Building. 
Baseball, Tech vs. .luniata, Tech Field. 
Science Chemists Dance, Union.
Baseball, Tech vs. Westminster, Tech Field, 
t l, .15Campus Week.
-Campus Week Dance, Union.
-Tennis, Tech vs. W. & .L, Tech Courts. 
-Inter-scholastic Track Meet and Dual Meet
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.: <:30, 1:00. 9:00. 10:00 >nd
11:00 A, M. on Sundays and Holy 
Daya.
Voapora on Sund&yii at 7:80 P, M. 
lww II. Middle AIM*, for Toot) 8U
May
MayMayMay
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
Schenley
May
May
May
May
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL OHUROH 
f'l*wrth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Reotor 
OR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Aealatant. 
Sunday Sorrioe, 8:00 A. M., 11:0# 
K M. and 8:00 P. M 
Oo;llogx? Men's Bible Glaaa at 10:06, 
by Dr. Calvia.
Ail Students Qemslwoly Wsioors^a.
BOGGS & BUHL 
GEO. M. WILSON
-Inter-Honorary Dance, Union. 
-Tennis Dance, Union.
-C. I. T. Band Concert and Dane 
Tennis Dance, Union.Arts Building.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1920.PAGE THREEWRKFTS
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
President Hamerschlag, in response to the numerous inquiries concern
ing a gymnasium, directs attention to his annual reports for the last seven 
years, each one of which contains a statement urgently requesting a suitable 
building for this purpose. We were hopeful that the report of the joint 
committee of Trustees, faculty, students and alumni, which recommended a 
memorial gymnasium last June, would be favorably acted on and the building 
started before this time. As soon as funds are available we are assured that the work will be begun on the new building.
JVRIGLEYS^
v Sealed 
.XINo2 
Kept 
Right
-----OCHANGE IN RESTAURANT MANAGEMENT 
Beginning Monday, May 3rd, the restaurant will be operated under the 
private management of F. Suddaby. The Institute will cooperate by furnish
ing rent, heat, light, water, and use of equipment for a nominal charge, to assist in keeping down the prices of food.
A restaurant committee of the Institute will have the right of approval 
on the quality of the food served, prices, hours of service, and sanitary 
conditions. This committee, appointed by President Hamerschlag, will con
sist of Dean Tarbell, Mr. Orbin, and Mr. Dibble and Marcus Fair of the 
recent Faculty-Student Committee which had a conference on the restaurant 
situation, and which submitted a report with recommendations to the Presi
dent on April 27th. This committee consisted of Professors Yoakum, Den
nison, Dibble, Bicknell and Gundelfinger from the Faculty, Gilbert Clark. 
Marcus Fair, Richard Townsend, John Todd and H. W. Lynn, from the stu
dent body, appointed by the Student Council.
The new schedule of prices, effective May 3rd, is in accordance with
the recommendations of this committee, which closed its report with the
following plea for loyalty, when new conditions were established, That it 
be made clear to all students that the restaurant is maintained for their 
convenience, and is entirely dependent upon their patronage for success.
May 1, 1920. DEAN TARBELL.
At the Theatres
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
GRAND ADVANCE NOTICE
A land of exotics, beauty and ro
mancethe glistening isles of the 
South Seashas been chosen by Dav
id W. Griffith as the scene for his 
latest great drama, The Idol Danc
er, produced with an all-star cast, 
which will top the program at Pitts
burghs New Million Dollar Grand all 
next week, starting Monday morning. 
In this land of the far-away, a verit
able port of the missing, where hide 
heathen; he has placed a wonderful 
story of romance and adventurea 
vivid tale of life and love, sadness and 
laughter, sloth and work, sanity and 
madness, treachery and honesty, lax
ity and manliness.
This is the picture that was being 
made by Griffith when he and his en
tire company were lost at sea off the 
coast of Florida, an experience so 
sensational that it thrilled the entire 
world. It is based on a story by Gor
don Ray Young and has been given 
one of the most wonderful produc
tions that even Griffith pictures have 
presented. The cast is the finest the 
Griffith forces offered. Clarine Sey
mour, dainty, dark-eyed, and vivacious 
little minx, has the title role, a mys
terious dancing girl of the wilds, a
PW!rirp,-viH 'i tTt....ri-n! 'ir^
Using X-Ray in. the Home
Greater X-ray Service
through Research
F
OR years after the discovery of 
X-rays it was evident that only 
intensive research could unfold their 
real possibilities.
Meanwhile, scientists of the General 
Electric Company developed the pro
cess of making wrought tungsten. 
This proved ideal as the target in X-ray 
tubes and its use for this purpose soon 
became universal.
Then further research resulted in the 
development of an X-ray tube of a 
radically new type  the Coolidge 
Tube  with both electrodes of 
wrought tungsten and containing the 
highest attainable vacuum.
But the complication of high-vacuum 
pumps made the new tube in large
Selfrectifying,
Radiatortype
Coolidge
X-ray
Tube
quantities impossible. The answer to 
this problem was the Langmuir Con
densation Pump, utilizing mercury 
vapor in its operation and almost 
automatic.
To meet the need for simple X-ray 
apparatus during the war, the G-E 
Laboratory developed the Self-Rectifying Coolidge Tube, which made 
possible portable outfits at the frontThe latest X-ray outfit of this type 
is so small it can be taken conve
niently to the home or to the bedside 
in the hospital.
Thus the Research Laboratory of the 
General Electric Company continues 
to serve, that progress in things elec
trical may continue for the good of 
humanity.
General Office Schenectady. N.YSales Offices in all large cities
child of the sun and the sea, who loves 
and hates as the telements dictate. 
Richard Barthelmess, famous as the 
Chinaman of Broken Blossoms, 
makes his appearance as a drunken 
beachcomber, a laggard and sot, who 
finds, before the story is ended, that 
manhood still remains in his rumsoaked carcass. Then there are other 
splendid players  Creighton Hale, 
George McQuarrie, Kate Bruce, 
Thomas Carr, Anders Randolph, Por
ter Strong, Herbert Sutch, Walter 
James, Adolph Lestina, Ben Grauer, 
Walter Kololoku and a vast number 
of natives garbed in their barbarous 
costumes and sweeping across the 
waters between the islands in their 
swift sampans.
A dashing hoyden is The Idol 
Dancer, forbidden the homes of the 
righteous missionaries because of her 
lack of raiment and her unconvention
al manner. But she despises the mis
sion girls and capers and dances 
wildly dances with flashing eyes 
flaunting the men who would woo her. 
Then out of the sea comes a true 
lover and she knows that her pure, 
sincere love can accomplish more than 
all of the violent works of the preach 
ing hypocrites.
Miss Seymour is a marvel of grace 
and magnetism. She claims ones 
heart with her first glance from the 
screen. Even in her previous pictures, 
The Girl who Stayed at Home, 
True Heart Susy, Scarlet Days 
and others, she has done nothing as 
fascinating as this. Griffith is his 
old self where details of direction and 
securing great dramatic and human effects are concerned.-------DDAVIS THEATRE ADVANCE
A decidedly popular star is herald 
ed as the chief attraction in the Keith 
vaudeville shows which are to be giv
en at the Davis Theatre at daily mat
inees and evening performances for 
one week. With Madame Emma Trentini, the diminutive and popular star 
of grand opera and opera comiquo, 
in the titular position. It will l>e 
Trentinis first and perhaps only ap
pearance here in two-a-day. But re
cently returned from Europe, where, 
in London and throughout Italy, she 
sang in grand opera, Trentini prefer
red an excursion into vaudeville rath
er than a venture so late in the season 
in light opera. She is affectionately 
remembered by theatregoers locally 
as the star of The Firefly and 
Naughty Marietta.
A second feature attraction in the 
program will be Percy Bronson and 
Winnie Baldwin, in a new act writ
ten for them by Jack Lait, with lyrics 
by Harry Williams and music by Neil 
Moret. It is entitled Visions of 
1920.
Tim and Kitty OMoara, with the 
aid of Freddy Clifton, will entertain 
with Memories of the Dance, in 
which a variety of modern dancing 
steps are to be combined with some 
whirlwind Terpsichorean exercises. 
These are the outstanding attractions 
in what promises to be a very unusual 
program. Seats may now be had in 
advance for any of the twelve per 
formances of the week.
RECOGNITION 
If you know a personspeak to 
him. It may helpIt cannot harm. 
How many times have you purposely 
shunned one whom you know simply 
because of something not to your lik
ingmaybe his clothes, perhaps his 
carriage, possibly he hasnt done any
thing to be recognized for. Some of 
the most unselfish men I know, some 
of my best friendsnever dress at
tractivelyyou wouldnt look at them 
twicetheir appearance is poorbut 
they are so because they are always 
thinking of others rather than them
selves  many times having their 
whole life consecrated to some person 
or group of persons who are handi
capped physically or otherwise. These 
men and women have personalities, 
They are genuine, real, helpful when 
you need their help without reflecting 
upon you the necessity for a return 
favor by telling you about their help. 
They help you and forget it. They 
help you naturally. Its their life 
their enjoyment.. These personalities 
are the most enduring you can have 
association with. Youll meet them 
through consideration on your part. 
The first consideration to practicc is 
to at least favor a person whom you 
know with a pleasant expression when 
you see him. It will come back to you 
in real association. It v/ill teach you 
true appreciation which is the basis 
of a broad and tolerant nature.
Smart Spring Suits 
for Young Men 
are Ready!
Ihe new models are particularly handsome and 
stylishboth single and double breasted !
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which are unusually nobby!
Our chain-store system affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
*30 $35 *40
"Ultra-Class Suits, $45 and $50
fete3
302-304 State Street
AKUON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
HEADING
PITTSBURGH 
(3 toro) 
ROCHESTER 
SCHENECTADY 
SYRACUSE
<#iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiniiir,iiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiipiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiii|iiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiii
SORANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNQSTOWN
iiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiniiiiK
M
URADS are as different from
ordinary cigarettes as morning is from 
midnight.
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes.
The trifling additional cost of Murads will 
bring bigger returns in Quality than any in
vestment you ever made.
Because Murads are
100;i PURE TURKISH THE WORLD'S MOST 
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES.
.Uaitrt if tht llghett Ctodt Tvrhlih und U/Jmrui ni tlu &am
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MAY 5, 1920.
trol apparatus thru the past twenty 
years, showing conclusively the in
creased simplicity and effectiveness of 
modern apparatus over that used some 
years ago. The talk was very inter
esting arid is especially timely, for it 
is undoubtedly true that a large por
tion of the future progress of the 
electrical art will be along the line of automatic control.
THE BIGGEST EYI*
IN THE WORLDFINEST SWIMMING POOL
' t" a)-ono: u vr, at ..It, Wilson, 
near Pasadena, Calif., are now having 
Jots of fun with their latent and rarest 
plaything, namely their recordbreaking telescope, which is now in 
regular working order there after a 
period of 15 years having been spent 
on its construction. It ;; now sta
tioned in the great dome of the con
servatory (5000 feet above sea-level. 
Its sweep of vision goes beyond the 
boundary of the universe heretofore 
known and reveals millions of Vair 
never before seen.
The big tclescope is of the reflecting 
type, and the function of its 100-inch 
reflector, or mirror, is to gather a 
maximum amount of light, which be
ing reflected makes a focal image that 
varies in size with the mirror. The im
age is observed through a powerful 
microscope, the eye-pioce of the in
strument.
The great glass disk, 13 inches thick ; 
and weighing four and one-half tons, 
was ordered cast at St. Gobain, 
France, in 1005. It was received at 
Pasadena in 1919. Two years'were 
spent in trying to secure a better 
piece of glass, but that was found im
possible,
Grinding on the glass in the optical 
shop of the Mt. Wilson observatory 
was begun in 1911 under the direction 
of Dr. G. W. Ritchey, who ground the 
Yerkes observatory mirror. A half
ton of glass was ground away, mostly 
from the concave side. In silvering, 
5 gallons of distilled water was re
quired to fill the concavity, and to this 
were added nine gallons of dilute 
silver solution and nine gallons of di
lute reducing solution. The mirror 
was shaped, polished and tested by the 
most exacting methods. An entire 
year was spent in merely grinding a 
perfect 60-inch plane mirror with 
which to test it.
An idea of the delicateness of the 
operation may be'obtained from the 
description given by Dr. J. A. Brashear, president of the American Society 
of Mechanical Engineers, of the prep
aration of the second largest reflect
ing mirror in the world. This mirror 
is now in the Dominion Observatory. 
Vancouver Island, Canada, and its di
ameter is 72 inches.
The work was carried on, according 
to Dr. Brashear, in an underground 
apartment where conditions of tem
perature were as perfect as science 
could make them, never varying more 
than two degrees a month. It was 
found possible to work on the lens for 
a luilf-hour only out of every 12 hours. 
The heat generated by working on it 
was enough to throw out the calcula
tions. It took the Pennsylvania Rail
road a week to find a suitable car to 
transport this mirror from New York 
to Pittsburgh, and there a further de
lay was encountered before a suitable 
iron wagon could be found to carry 
it to Dr. Brashears workshop.
The Ml. Wilson telescope required 
the building of a dome .1.00 feet; in 
diameter and 100 feet high in which 
to mount it. The dome is of metal 
and has a double wall throughout to 
preserve a more uniform temperature. 
The telescope is carried by a pier of 
hollow reinforced concrete, built 33 
foot high in order to lift the telescope 
above ground radiation at night,
The moving parts of the telescope 
weigh 1.00 tons, and in order to per
mit the rotating of this enormous 
mass without undue fi/iction the bulk 
of the weight is taken up by a nota
tion system. Floating steel cylinders 
with less than one-eighth of an inch 
clearance between them were built up 
in cast iron tanks. These wore filled 
with mercury in which the cylinders 
float.
Promising results have already been 
obtained with the giant reflector. Dr. 
Shaploy, in studying star clusters with 
the 100-incher, finds a gain of about 
one magnitude, and it is estimated by 
Prof. Hale that the new telescope will 
bring to view nearly 100,000,000 stars 
beyond the 20th magnitude. The ex
tent of the gain may be appreciated 
when we realize that with the unaided 
eye we can see only about 5000 stars.
But the purpose of the new tele
scope is not merely the discovery of 
new stars. Such discoveries, after all, 
would add little to the knowledge of 
our universe. Probably the greatest 
results will be in the line of stellar 
spectroscopy.
With the old 60-inch telescope at 
Mt. Wilson an exposure of five hours 
is required for certain stars to yield a 
measurable absorption spectrum. With 
the new telscope good photographs of 
the absorption spectra of the same 
stars have been obtained after an ex
posure of two hours. Remarkable 
photographs of the moon have been 
made with the 100-inch reflectorone 
of these photographs being produced 
in the Pathfinder of February 21.
Let us hope that the searching eye 
of this huge telescope will be able 
to settle finally the question of canals 
on Mars, and even throw some light 
on the sourse of the mysterious radio 
messages that have puzzled and are 
still puzzling the scientists of the 
world.-The Pathfinder.
IN THE WORLD
Open All Year and Every Day 
Pool Reserved for Women Tuesday and Thursday 
All Other Days for Men
brings back the friendly glass'
Purity,
\ Food-Value
and Satisfaction i
Imiiiili in everu bottle L
PITTSBURGH NATATORIUM 
540 DUQUESNE WAY
Plans are being made for the An
nual Cosmopolitan Dinner given by 
the members of the C. I. T. Cosmo
politan Club. A committee has been 
at work on the details for some time 
and wish to announce the date as Sat
urday, May the 22nd. Several inter
esting speakers on national and time
ly subjects have been secured and the 
affair promises to be a fitting end for 
the organizations work this term.
Known Evorywlwro 
Sold EvGrywhore
111 Anhcuaer-Bucli, Inc. 
II St. LoubAMERICAN LEGION.
Allegheny County Committee 
431 Sixth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
April 30, 1920. 
p To All Ex-Service Men:
Eg From P/Iay 1st to 10th inclujj sive, there will be at the headjj quarters of the Allegheny CounH ty Committee of the American 
jj Legion representatives of the 
jj various governmental depart-* 
jj ments that have to deal with the 
H ex~sei*vice men.
All maters referring to bonus, 
g back pay, allotments, insurance, 
jf Liberty Bonds, etc., may be 
gf taken up at these headquarters 
1 on those dates.
Yours truly,
(S) F. C. Herring,
Ass't Secretary.
IllllllilllllllllllUlllllllllllllllll
DANCING LE880N8
CRAIG ANB FORBES
i/rua
WaccS attil
tfln/ieuArt/ ' Jj+fr, X, ,1 V> rj'nf ' >
J ^ Broad and Sheridan Ave.
All Kinds of Batteries 
VICE Repaired and Recharged
<IIIUIIIIIIIIillllll!UII1ll!lllillllllU!llllllllll!IIIIUIIIIIIIUII!!lllIIIII!llll!IIUIIIIllllll!IUI!llill!l!l!llllU!l!!IHIIi:iiliIlllilillll!riiilIllilltlllliilllllllillllllllllli
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
PENN AND P * 'K8TOWN 
AVENUE
immmwrnimmiammi'Mim
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
and at a dinner 
to the Prince
fact:
Of the many elaborate functions arranged 
for the Prince of Wales during liis recent 
New York visit, there was one in particular 
where only the exclusive few of New York 
society were received. And at this affair 
the cigarette chosen by the committee in 
charge to be served the guests was Fatima.
CUT DOWN YOUR 8HOE 
EXPENSE by buylnfl butter 
shoo#. You will find thorn far 
chonpor to wonr than nhoos 
which hi  not. no high In quality.
Our' now modo In for FALL and 
WM TER ro now In, und they 
dHr full of nap-Juot uultabl 
for thn f.olloqc man.
Englnooru' Equlpmont, Inatru* 
montn of Praclnlon, Blue Print 
and Drown Print Papora and 
Clotha.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
128 SIXTH STREETTHE GRAFF CO
RANGES. STOVES. FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PIIONES:
Bell. 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
MlflMWWlKUIMII
yi Sensible Cigarette
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry
 Agency.
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
Fatimas famous "just enough Turkish 
blend has received many noteworthy en
dorsements from great hotels, leading clubs 
and prominent peoplebut here is recog
nition not merely of its quality but, if you 
please, of its "social standing.
Nor is the reason difficult to find. Three 
words explain it"just enough Turkish.
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
A. I. E. E. MEETING.THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKR THEIR SHOES
Relief ield 
Shoe Repairing Co
Across from the Library
The regular April mooting of the "Toih Branch of the A. 1. E. K. was 
held in Room 11, Machinery Hall, on 
Thursday evening, April 2!), 1920.
Mr. IT. P. .Tamos, of the Division of 
Control, Westinghouso E. and M. Co., 
was the principal speaker and gave an 
illustrated lecture on The Develop
ment of Electric Controllers.
In his discussion, Mr. James follow
ed the development of electrical conMusic at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
