Volume 90, Issue 9Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 19066 November 1995THE TARTAN
Israels Rabin slain by extremist; campus, world react
Memorial, planned for Tuesday
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Students, faculty and staff will mourn the death of Israeli 
prime minister Yitzhak Rabin in a short memorial Tuesday 
at 1 pm by the Fence.
Rabin was killed Saturday when Yigal Amir, a 27-yearold student described as a Jewish extremist, shot the prime 
minister three times as he left a massive peace rally in Tel 
Mv. Rabin, 73, stood at the forefront of the Israel-PLO 
plan to end Israeli occupation of the West Bank and bring 
peace to the Middle East.
I think it is a horrendous tragedy, but hope it will not 
derail the peace process, said Rabbi Art Donsky of the 
Jewish University Center/Hillel Foundation. [The assassi
nation] shows the level of extremism that can be fostered 
when the debate is pushed, and individuals and groups fan 
[the flames of such hatred.
Rabins assassination has caused anger, shock and 
onfusion for many University members who respected the 
jprime ministers efforts at peace. Tuesdays memorial 
service  featuring a Jewish memorial prayer, reading of 
?salms and modern Jewish poetry, and the lighting of a 
memorial candle  will allow members of the University 
community to be part of the mourning process.
We want everyone to come  Jewish, non-Jewish,
Please see MEMORIAL, page 5
Mourners line road to Jerusalem as funeral procession passes
[.Editors note: Please see related letter, page .7.]
JERUSALEM, November 5 (AP)  The flag-draped coffin of Prime 
Minister Yitzhak Rabin, fatally shot at a Tel Aviv peace rally, was 
carried to Jerusalem on the back of an army truck Sunday, past 
thousands of Israelis who lined the highway to pay last respects.
Police said a27-year-oldlaw student with ______________________
links to the Jewish extremist fringe con
fessed to the crime, saying he acted on 
Gods orders and didnt regret the deed.
Minutes before being shot, Rabin told a 
cheering crowd of 100,000 in Tel Avivs 
Kings of Israel Square that people really 
want peace. As he left, the gunman fired 
three shots from close distance, hitting him 
in the back and stomach. __________________'
Rabin was rushed in his black Cadillac to 
Tel Avivs Ichilov Hospital. He arrived un
conscious and died at 11:11 pm (4:11 EST) on the operating table.
Rabin Murdered. Israel is hurting and crying, said the headline 
Sunday in the Yediot Ahronot newspaper. A front-page editorial in the 
Maariv newspaper declared: We were left orphaned.
Israels partners in the Middle East peace process expressed hopes 
that Rabins death wouldnt destroy the progress of negotiations. And 
the leader of Israels opposition said it wouldnt challenge an attempt 
by Rabins allies to form a new government.
Hundreds of Israelis held an all-night candlelight vigil at the site of
the shooting. By early Sunday, hundreds of memorial candles and 
bouquets of flowers covered the spot. A sign in Hebrew read Why? 
Schoolchildren began their day Sunday by standing in silent mourn
ing.
Rabin was looking to the future. He was looking out for us, the 
younger generation, said Amir Shavir, an 18-year-old from Tel Aviv.
______________________________________________ They killed him.
They killed my 
hope.
Leaders from 
around the world, 
including Jor
dans King Hus
sein, President: 
Clinton, and Ger_____________________________________________ man Chancellor
Helmut Kohl, said 
they would attend
Rabins funeral, scheduled for Monday in Jerusalem. Hussein would 
be making his first visit to Jerusalem since Israel captured the citys 
eastern portion in a 1967 war.
Israeli radio reported that President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, a 
mediator in the peace process, also would attend. Egyptian officials in 
Cairo couldnt immediately confirm that.
He was the man who gave the peace process a great deal of his effort 
and ideas, Mubarak said in a statement broadcast on Egyptian
Please see RABIN, page 5
[Rabin] was looking out for us, the younger 
generation. They killed him. They killed my 
hope.
 Amir Shavir, 18, of Tel Aviv
Halfback returns to squad...
In move to keep files private...
Computing Services blocks directories
/ears o\&
Honor society 
picks campus
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
Phi Kappa Phi honor society 
is returning to CMU after 
unanimous approval from 
PKPs Board of Directors.
Unlike Phi Beta Kappa, 
which accepts only liberal arts 
majors and came to campus 
last year, PKP is an interdisci
plinary honor society, and 
therefore, draws membership 
from all colleges and depart
ments.
PKP has 275 chapters that 
extend across the United 
States, Puerto Rico, and the 
Philippines, on campuses that 
include American University, 
Georgia Tech, Syracuse, and 
the University of Maine (where
PKP originated). CMU had a 
PKP chapter from 1933 to 1983.
Undergraduate students are 
considered for election into PKP 
if they are in their senior year 
and in the top 10 percent of 
their class, or in their junioryear if they are in the top five 
percent.
Graduate students can also 
be elected. However, their num
ber cannot exceed 10 percent of 
the number of candidates for 
graduate degrees during the 
year. Faculty, alumni, and hon
orary or distinguished mem
bers can also be elected to the 
chapter.
The move to bring PKP to 
campus was headed by statis
tics professor Stephen 
Please see PKP, page 3
CMU focuses on endowment
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Computing Services will change the 
access privileges on most Andrew users 
home directories on November 15.
As a result, users will be able to see 
files in other users home directories, 
but they wont be able to read the files 
unless that user gives them access.
User consultant John Lerchey said 
that the move comes a year after the 
department first began blocking public 
access to ail new Andrew accounts.
It is a fact that, in the past, there have 
been problems caused by students look
ing around in staff members directo
ries, and finding files that have informa
tion that was confidential in there, 
Lerchey said. Theres more than just 
student issues involved in this.
The uniqueness of the Andrew file 
system (AFS) makes it difficult to block 
access to individual files. As a result, 
many users have sensitive information
 like the files which show which 
newsgroups theyve readin their home 
directories, available to anyone who 
knows how to read them.
Under standard Unix... you would be 
able to change the protection bits on the
individual file, said Lerchey. You could 
set it so that not anybody could come in 
and read the file. Under AFS, you dont 
[have] file-based protection. Instead, you 
use directory-based protection.
Unfortunately, blocking the home di
rectory means that other files there, like 
.plan files and email distribution lists, 
will also be blocked. Lerchey said that 
posts on official.computing-news told 
users how to move files into their pub
lic folder, a subdirectory of the home 
directory.
In addition, if users dont want their 
home directories blocked, they can cre
ate, an empty file called .BYPASS in 
their home directory, or send email to 
advisor+@andrew.cmuifedu asking to be 
skipped. .
Theres going to be some subset of 
users, no matter how small its going to 
be, whos on sabbatical or on vacation, 
and who are not going to want their 
directory protection changed, or whos 
not going to have seen the post, said 
Lerchey. [Theyre] not going to take any 
action, its going to get changed, and 
theyre going to be unhappy about it.
If that happens, Lerchey said that the 
Help Center in Warner Hall will show 
them how to remove the protection. Its
a simple command line, he said.
There have been objections raised to 
Computing Services plans, which 
Lerchey said he expected.
One of the things that you will learn 
about CMU is that no matter which 
stance you take on any issue, you will 
find a vocal minority who will be happy 
to oppose you in public places, he said. 
Its part of being in a university. If we 
said that we explicitly werent going to 
[protect the home directories], we would 
haye some subset of people who said, I 
cant believe youre going to make me do 
this myself. No matter how you look at 
it, somebodys going to complain.
Lerchey noted that access to subsid
iary directories  like those used for 
World Wide Web pages  will not 
change.
The existence of so-called .newsrc 
files, which show which bboards a user 
has read, first became an issue when 
then-ECE senior Marty Rimm compiled 
a list of user statistics without the per
mission of the users whose accounts he 
looked at. Lerchey said that the decision 
to block access wasnt directly related to 
the ensuing controversy.
Whether or not Rimms study had a 
Please see ANDREW, page 3
Inside
Calendar..................................................L12
Classified............................................. Lll
Comics.......................................................L6
Diversions..................................................L9
forum..................................................:.......6
Living........;.............................................LI
Sports.........................................................12
Sports
Blues coach trashes 
team  see page 11
J) Living ^
\ I The music goes round and
I round  see page LI 0
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
University President Robert Mehrabians recent 
proclamation that CMUs endowment may reach $1 
billion by the year 
2005 surprised 
many observers, 
but Jeffrey Bolton, 
newly-appointed 
vice president for 
planning and bud
get, said its a pos
sibility.
Bolton said that 
the University has 
changed the direcing efforts, as indiENDOWMENT
cated by last years
announcement of a new capital campaign [Board of 
Trustees votes to increase endowment, 11/21/94].
Previously, a lot of the focus was on programmatic 
current operations, as well as capital projects [such as 
building construction], Bolton said. I think the en
dowment is the new target.
If Mehrabians prediction comes true, the increase 
would be more than double the endowments current Fundraising efforts have shifted from capital improvement projects, like the 
Please see ENDOWMENT, page 3 construction of the University Center, to boosting CMUs endowment.
Forum
Words perplex writer 
 see page 7
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Senior halfback Mike Mathias (shown in a September 3 photo) returned to the 
'neup as the Tartans defeated Juniata, 39-7. Please see related story, page 12.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995
 
In motorists death...
Coroners jury calls for trial
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 4 (AP)  The 
death of a black motorist who had 
been stopped by five white officers 
reminded coroners jurors of a 19thcentury lynching, one member of the 
panel said Saturday.
Its almost like they threw a rope 
around his neck and hung him from a 
tree, said jurorBeth Beeler, 34. They 
took his life merely because he was 
black. We should be beyond that in 
1995.
The three white and three black 
jurors recommended Friday that all 
five officers should face homicide 
charges in the Oct. 12 death of Jonny 
Gammage, 31, a cousin of Pittsburgh 
Steelers defensive end Ray Seals.
Police from suburban Brentwood, 
Baldwin, and Whitehall testified dur
ing the three-day inquest that they 
stopped Gammage after seeing him 
driving erratically in a 1988 Jaguar.
They said they had to sit on him and 
beat him with flashlights to control 
him. An autopsy later revealed 
Gammage, who lived in Syracuse, 
N.Y., suffocated from compression of 
his neck and chest.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson also has 
called the death a lynching and the 
FBI is investigating.
Beeler, who is white, said the jurors 
never doubted that at least some of 
the five officers should be charged, but 
one jury was reluctant to recommend 
that all five be charged with homicide.
She said testimony showed that what 
started as a routine traffic stop turned 
into a racial incident.
When the officers realized he was a 
black man in a Jaguar, they thought 
the worst. It turned into a racial thing, 
she said. Its hogwash.
She said jurors did not believe the 
officers accounts. They knew more 
than they were saying, Beeler said.
District Attorney Bob Colville said 
his office would decide on charges by 
the end of this week. He could disre
gard the jurys recommendation, but 
said Friday that was unlikely.
Pittsburgh NAACP president Tim 
Stevens said Saturday he hoped the 
verdict sends a message to police.
They have the power, literally, to 
take a life. And there are consequences 
to misusing the badge and the gun, 
Stevens said.
The charges were the harshest rec
ommendation possible. The jury could 
have recommended the district attor
ney consider involuntary manslaugh
ter, no charges at all, or homicide 
charges against only some of the offic
ers.
Officer John Vojtas and Lt. Milton 
Mulholland of Brentwood were placed 
on administrative leave following 
Gammages death. Baldwin Officer 
Michael Albert was reassigned to a 
desk job, and Officer Sean Patterson 
and Sgt. Keith Henderson of Whitehall 
are on medical leave.
FBI: Make wiretapping easier
Will ask phone companies to aid surveillance
WASHINGTON, D.C., Nov 2 (AP)
 The FBI wants the capability to 
simultaneously tap one of every 100 
phone and data lines in major urban 
centers, but a top Justice Department 
official said there are no plans to ex
pand the existing number of wiretaps.
As part of its effort to deal with a 
new breed of criminals adept at using 
new telecommunications technologies, 
the FBI said it wants phone compa
nies to initially set aside 0.5 percent, 
or one of every 200 lines, for law en
forcement use in high-crime urban 
areas. But it also wants the ability to 
rapidly expand that capability to one 
of every 100 lines if the need arises.
The disclosure was made in a littlenoticed announcement in the Federal 
Register. Despite the notice, Deputy 
Attorney General Jamie Gorelick said 
today, There is no intention to ex
pand the number of wiretaps or the 
extent of wiretapping... I dont think 
the American people should be wor
ried about that.
The FBI proposal had been long 
anticipated since the passage last year 
of the Communications Assistance for 
Law Enforcement Act. While the fed
eral notice does not specify which cit
ies would be targeted, Dempsey said 
New York is likely to be one of them.
The FBI said in its official notice 
that its capability needs were based 
on an historical baseline of electronic 
surveillance activity after surveying 
federal, state and local agencies.
While law enforcement officers will 
still have to get court approval for any 
wiretaps they install, the technologi
cal measures would remove the objec
tions of some judges. Legislation sent 
by President Clinton to Congress seek
ing greater wiretap authority in the 
wake of the April bombing of the fed
eral building in Oklahoma City is lan
guishing in congressional committees 
and is given little prospect of being 
passed this year.
Ft. Bragg sniper 
charged by Army
FORT BRAGG, N.C., Nov. 4 (AP)  
The Army sergeant accused of killing 
one soldier and injuring 18 others in a 
predawn sniper attack has been for
mally charged with murder and at
tempted murder, the Army said Satur
day.
Sgt. William J. Kreutzer also was 
charged with assault and weapons vio
lations in the Oct. 27 ambush on mem
bers of the 82nd Airborne Division based 
at Fort Bragg, a statement from the fort 
said.
Kreutzer, of Clinton, Md., remained in 
a military jail at Camp Lejeune in Jack
sonville.
Proceedings to summon a military 
grand jury, similar to those of a civilian 
grand jury, were expected to be ordered 
by Kreutzers brigade commander Mon
day, the statement said.
Military officials have not decided 
whether to seek the death penalty, a 
spokesman for the 82nd Airborne, Maj. 
Rivers Johnson, told the Fayetteville 
Observer-Times in Sundays editions.
The Army said the gunman opened 
fire on the 1,300 paratroopers as they 
set out in the fog and dark on a four-mile 
run. The sniper hid in some pine trees 
overlooking the exercise field at Towle 
Stadium. Soldiers tackled him to the 
ground soon after the shots were fired.
Kreutzer was charged with killing Maj. 
Stephen Mark Badger; 18 counts of at
tempted murder, four counts of maim
ing and two counts of weapon and am
munition violations.
KDKA marks 75 
years of radio
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 2 (AP)  We 
interrupt this story for the following 
message: Happy 75th birthday 
radioland.
Seventy-five years ago last Thursday, 
KDKA radio broadcast the Harding-Cox 
presidential election returns. It wasnt 
the message that rocked the world. It 
was the medium.
KDKA is widely credited with making 
the first documented commercial radio 
broadcast. It had the first Federal Com
munications Commissionlicense issued.
The station, owned by Westinghouse 
Electric, is celebrating the anniversary 
by running audio vignettes of historic 
moments and music.
Some believe regular daily news pro
grams first began in Detroit on Aug. 20, 
1920, a little more than two months 
before KDKAs first election broadcast 
on Nov. 2.
KDKA started in the small garage of 
Westinghouse engineer Frank Conrad, 
who started playing music after he got 
tired of talking while he tested the re
ception of his experimental station in 
Wilkinsburg, just outside of Pittsburgh.
Last Thursday, KDKA aired excerpts
from the 1920 Election Day broadcast. 
The station also broadcast live from the 
Westinghouse Recreation Center, where 
a local group hopes to establish a broad
casting museum, and from Ross Park 
Mall in suburban Pittsburgh, where it 
has set up a display of radio memora
bilia.
For a $20 donation to Childrens Hos
pital, history buffs can buy one of 5,000 
pieces of an old KDKA tower that was 
demolished last year.
Japanese want 
U.S. off Okinawa
TOKYO, Nov. 5 (AP)  The governor 
of Okinawa has proposed dismantling 
all U.S. military bases on the southern 
Japanese island by the year 2015, news 
reports said Sunday.
Gov. Masahide Otas proposal is the 
latest to develop from Okinawans rage 
over the rape of a 12-year-old schoolgirl 
in September. Three U.S. servicemen 
have been charged in the case.
Kyodo News Service said Ota proposed 
the plan in a meeting with Prime Minis
ter Tomiichi Murayama on Saturday. 
He also refused to force owners of base 
land to continue leasing their property 
to the U.S. military and said he will 
disobey a court decree ordering him to 
do so.
Murayama has indicated he might 
override Ota and force Okinawan land
owners to renew their, leases for bases.
Under Otas plan, all U.S. military 
bases in Okinawa would be dismantled 
by 2015 and the island would be trans
formed into an international zone, in
cluding resorts and an international 
academic city built on a former U.S. air 
base, Kyodo said.
Okinawan government officials were 
not available for comment Sunday.
Defense Secretary William Perry and 
other U.S. officials have apologized for 
the rape of the schoolgirl, but insisted 
that the total number of U.S. forces in 
Japan must remain at 44,000.
About two-thirds of those forces are on 
42 bases in Okinawan islands, 1,000 
miles southwest of Tokyo. The bases 
hold a key place in U.S. military strat
egy in the Pacific.
But unhappiness with the U.S. mili
tary presence long has run deep on 
Okinawa, site of some of the bloodiest 
battles of World War II.
On Saturday, at a news conference, 
Ota said of the American troops: You 
are uninvited guests, you know.
Some schools at 
risk for drinking
SAN DIEGO, Nov. 2 (AP)  Colleges 
in the Northeast and those with frater
nities, sororities and big sports programs 
are the most likely to attract binge drink
ers and turn non-drinking freshmen into 
alcohol abusers, a study says.
The study, the latest in a series of
reports from the Harvard School of Publie Health, shows that certain high-risk 
campuses pose an enormous hazard ft 
nonbingeing freshmen. Forty-six per. 
cent of them became binge drinkers when 
exposed to life at a high:risk campus.
The researchers did not name any 
individual schools because they prom
ised officials anonymity in return for 
cooperating with the study.
At the low-risk campuses, only 17 percent of nonbingeing freshmen becaim 
binge drinkers, and 48 percent of 
bingeing freshman gave up the habit. At 
the high-risk colleges, only 20 percent of 
binge drinkers stopped.
The researchers defined binge-drink
ing men as those who consumed five 
drinks one after the other at least once 
in the previous two weeks. For women, 
the definition was four drinks.
The studies are based on a 20-page 
questionnaire given to 17,592 students 
at 140 colleges in 40 states and the 
District of Columbia in 1993. The samples 
was chosen to represent the entire U.S. 
college population.
Earlier analyses of the survey results 
showed that one-third of campuses had 
student bodies in which 50 percent 
more of the students were binge drink
ers. At some schools, the figure rose 
high as 70 percent.
At the other end of the scale, some 
campuses had student populations ii 
which only one percent of the students 
were binge drinkers. Overall, 50 percent 
of college men and 39 percent of college 
women are binge drinkers. The research
ers found that the highest-risk cam
puses got that way for two reasons: They 
attracted binge drinkers, and they 
turned non-drinkers into bingers.
Northeast campuses had the highest 
rates of binge drinking. Rates were low
est in the West. Campuses with big 
sports programs, fraternities and so
rorities had more bingedrinkers. 
Womens colleges, historically black col
leges and colleges attended primarilyby 
commuters had lower rates of bingj 
drinking, the researchers found.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayFair and partly sunny. 
Clouds move In by 
evening, with 70 
percent chance of 
rain overnight. Low, 
mid-50s.
TuesdayMorning rain, 
followed by winter
like weather. High 
upper 50s, lows in 
the 40s.
WednesdayColder again, with 
snow flurries, but 
little accumulation. 
High in the mid-40s, 
low in the 30s.
Thursday
Partly cloudy and 
cold. High 35-45, 
low 25-35.
Carnegie Almanac
Paper joins AP...
In an effort to better serve the 
campus community, The Tartan has 
joined The Associated Press.
The newspaper was told Friday 
by Mike Rogers of AP/Newsfmder 
thatthepapers application had been 
approved, and that it had received 
republication rights to AP stories.
AP/Newsfinder is a retrieval ser
vice that provides a cost-effective 
way for weekly newspapers to get 
access to AP stories.
The AP is a cooperative wire ser
vice founded in 1848. It serves more 
than 1,700 newspapers and 6,000 
broadcasters, including WRCT, 
Members get the benefit of the AP's 
resources, but may also be askedto 
provide stories to the organization.
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, November 6, 
1945: Freshmen all over campus 
are currently heard shouting 
Hooray! for their hazing period 
is almost over. reported The 
Carnegie Tartan. However, Fun 
Night, the climax, still is in the 
offing.
All frosh were required to at
tend Fun Night in full regalia 
 caps and ties, to be specific. 
Students who had successfully 
passed their traditions exam 
would receive their Carnegie Tech 
buttons. Students who had vio
lated part of their hazing require
ments would be forced to pay an 
unspecified penalty.
By ten oclock all this will be 
over, the paper continued, and 
everyone will dance till twelve.
Except freshmen, of course, who 
could leave after ten.
25 YEARS AGO, November 5, 
1970: Student Senate granted its 
Birth Control Committee $2,000 
so that it could make emergency 
loans to students. Loans of up to 
$200 would be available to cover 
medical expenses  including 
maternity costs and abortions.
Abortions were then illegal in 
Pennsylvania, but the $200 was 
expected to be sufficient to cover 
anticipated expenses in travel
ling to New York.
Several Senators, including the 
head of Senates Finance Com
mittee, felt that the money would 
be better spent on the establish
ment of more effective birth con
trol measures on campus.
The next order of business was 
a $350 allocation for a mimeo
graph and the recovery of $326.50 
from the cheerleading clubs bud
get.
10 YEARS AGO, November 5, 
1985: Apple Computer co-founder 
Steve Jobs was in Skibo Ball
room to talk about a new busi
ness venture.
Jobs announced his plans to 
form a new computer company 
called Next Incorporated, wrote 
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Stephen Volan. The goal of Next 
would be to produce a powerful 
computer workstation which 
would be targeted exclusively to 
the higher education market. 
Over 400 people crowded the 
ballroom, but local media  in
cluding WPXI-TV  were asked 
to leave.
Jobs had been recently ousted 
from Apple, but said that he had 
no bitterness towards the com
pany, although he did have some 
time on my hands.
Jobs also called the then-new 
Commodore Amiga the worlds
best video game, saying that thi 
Amiga might not succeed.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Noveffl 
ber 5, 1990: The University ft 
solved the great ID card caper bj 
re-encoding all valid campus ID-:
The previous week, thieves 
using a master key, had madeoS 
with all of the ID card equips 
in Skibo Hall. Students werj 
forced to present other forms 
photo identification to get inW 
their dorms, check out librarf 
books, or eat in the cafeteria.
Instead of issuing new IDs, th? 
University decided to develop 
different code for the magnet 
strips, but no information 'vai 
available on where or when $ 
re-encoding would take place.
carnegie techTARTAN
Volume 6  Number 12Wodnciday, December 7.1
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1906. The theme for the celebration is "90 years of 
excellence in print. Here's the papers 1966 flag.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 19953
Honor society returns to CMU
PKP, from page 1
Fienberg, who served as chair of the 
petitioning committee. Associate Pro
vost Barbara Lazarus was also instru
mental in the process.
Ive always been of the opinion that 
it is important to recognize student 
efforts, and especially to recognize stu
dent activities across college lines, 
said Fienberg. Phi Kappa Phi isnt 
restricted to the traditional liberal 
arts. It recognizes student accomplish
ments across the full spectrum of stu
dent activities.
Fienberg, who is a member of PKP, 
will be the first president of the newlyreconstituted CMU chapter.
Lisa Ritter, a PKP project coordina
tor and an English grad student, has 
been with the project since last spring. 
Ritter said the process was similar to 
the steps taken last year for Phi Beta 
Kappa.
I received a document from Phi 
Kappa Phi and it listed the first step 
was to submit a request to petition, 
said Ritter. Ritter had to list informa
tion like enrollment figures, the perI'm hoping that before the end of 
the year, we have our first Phi Kappa 
Phi fellow
 Professor Stephen Fienberg
cent age of faculty with PhDs, the 
Universitys accreditation, and a list 
of available degrees.
Rather than just reactivating the 
old chapter, PKP wanted the Univer
sity to go through the entire applica
tion process, because it was CMU who 
gave up the old charter because of a 
lack of participation. However, 
Fienberg said that officially, PKP re
activated the chapter.
Ritter said the bulk of the informa
tion that PKP requested was about 
CMUs library. We really had to give 
them a lot of library information ... 
because Phi Kappa Phi prides them
selves on continued learning, she said.
A lot of the hard work was done by 
Barbara Lazarus and her staff, said 
Fienberg.
Within a week after submitting the 
petition, PKP granted permission for 
the University to advance to the next 
step of the process, which Ritter said 
basically expanded on the first. CMU
also had to attach at least 15 resumes 
of people who were serving as petition
ers. This 15 was made up of people 
that were already members of PKP, 
like Fienberg, or people who would 
like to become members in the future. 
Many of the people were members of 
Phi Beta Kappa or Sigma Xi, an Engi
neering Honor Society.
A brief history of the school was also 
submitted, as well as explanations on 
how the University was governed  
from Student Senate up to the presi
dent  and a list of laboratory facili
ties, SAT scores, and admissions stan
dards.
On September 21-24, two PKP offi
cials visited campus. They met with 
faculty, administrators and students.
Scott Barek, a senior IM major and 
president of University Ambassadors, 
gave them a tour. Barek said the two 
men were very pleased with the cam
pus.
Because Carnegie Mellon is a great 
University and its in the middle of 
Pittsburgh, any national recognition 
program adds tremendously to its
--------;---------------------- premise,
said Barek.
Chris 
Gurciullo, 
president of 
the Gradu
ate Student 
Organiza
tion, was 
 able to have 
dinner with
the PKP officials during the site visit. 
He said they were interested in the 
social atmosphere at CMU and how 
graduate students felt about it. 
Gurciullo said having PKP on campus 
would provide a nice balance for each 
field.
Phi Kappa Phis goals are laid out in 
its brochure, and include the recogni
tion and encouragement of superior 
scholarship in all academic disciplines. 
The Society is convinced that in recog
nizing and honoring those persons of 
good character who have excelled in 
scholarship, in whatever field, it will 
stimulate others to strive for excel
lence.
Phi Kappa Phi in particular gives 
out graduate fellowships, and Im hop
ing that before the end of the year, 
well have our first Phi Kappa Phi 
fellow, said Fienberg.
In May, over graduation weekend, 
PKP will initiate new members and 
have its official chapter opening.
Fundraising focuses on endowment
ENDOWMENT, from page 1
value of $453 million.
The Universitys Annual Report, pub
lished this past Friday, also looks opti
mistic. I think this is a period of sub
stantial growth, said Bolton.
What is the Universitys endowment, 
and why is it so important to CMUs 
health? The endowment represents the 
money that the University earns 
through returns on its investments, con
tributions, and gifts.
David Hammerstein, treasurer and 
chief investment officer, said that the 
returns on investment of endowment 
money yield income for more scholar
ships and professorships. It also acts as 
a source of funds to attract the most 
competitive students and faculty mem
bers.
[The endowment] provides us with 
some insulation from external funding 
sources and from potential volatility, 
said Bolton.
He cited recently proposed federal 
government plans for cutbacks in higher 
education as an example of one external 
source that is endangered.
The endowment has become the focus 
of the Universitys efforts because its 
smaller than those of other schools. A 
good measure of competitiveness can be 
obtained by looking at the number of 
endowment dollars per student.
Based on 1994 numbers, CMUs en
dowment per student is less than half 
the average of top 10 schools with which 
it competes. At the top of the chart is 
Princeton with over half a million dol
lars per student, while Rensselaer Poly
technic Institute is at the bottom with 
less than $50,000 per capita.
The key from our perspective is to 
make some gains on our competitors in 
terms of funding support that we could 
expect from the endowment, said Bolton.
Bolton said that while theres no spe
cific goal, the University does need to 
work to catch up with other schools.
In a sense, fund raising comparisons 
and goals are inherently dynamic. All of 
the nations top universities are compet
ing for a limited amount of money, and 
theres a certain amount of competition.
Bolton said that the competition is not 
standing still.
All of these other institutions are in 
major capital campaigns also or have 
just finished capital campaigns, he said. 
So trying to catch up with some of these 
institutions is difficult.
If the endowment reached $1 billion 
by 2005, it would make CMUs endow
ment per student approximately 
$150,000 assuming the number of stu
dents does not change.
That would put CMU just a couple of 
thousand dollars below the average en
dowment per student at competing in
stitutions in 1994.
As to the $1 billion figure, 
Hammerstein and Bolton noted that the 
figure was an extrapolation based on 
certain assumptions.
The endowment has experienced very 
strong growth during the period due to 
our successful investment performance, 
Hammerstein said. He cited figures in 
the newly released annual report which 
show that CMU saw an average return
of 11 percent over the past five years.
Hammerstein said that this period of 
strong growth was primarily driven by 
investment returns as opposed to gift 
contributions.
Bolton cautioned students and faculty 
not to just focus on the $1 billion figure. 
I think if you were to extrapolate our 
last five years in terms of performance 
as well as fund raising, you would reach 
a $1 billion by 2005, he said. From the 
perspective of our fund raising campaign, 
where we are really targeting the en
dowment for growth, one could assume 
that could grow even faster, but the 
stock market and the like is a very im
portant determinant.
Hammerstein said that growth of the 
endowment depends on success of the 
Universitys investments, the size of fu
ture donations, and expenses that result 
from the return on endowment invest
ment.
Given the variables, Hammerstein said 
that projections of the endowment in 
2005 could encompass a broad range of 
values depending on the particular as
sumptions.
The annual report shows that gifts 
and grants directed at the endowment 
added up to $7.4 million this past fiscal 
year. Bolton expects that gifts to the 
endowment will increase at a faster rate 
than the University had seen.
While noting that expenses exceeded 
contributions in recent years, 
Hammerstein is optimistic about the 
future. CMU has been very successful 
in raising and investing funds over the 
years, he said.
Andrew directories blocked from prying eyes
ANDREW, from page 1
direct effect on our decision to do this, I 
honestly dont know, said Lerchey. I 
know that setting up the home directory 
protection for new students occurred 
well before Rimms study, and this is 
just the logical extension of that.
It was likely that this was on the list 
of things to get done, and it may be that 
at the time of Rimms study, there was 
enough public outcry that it was bumped 
up on the priority queue.
Lerchey said that many students al
ready have access to their home directo
ries blocked, and that CMUs finger 
command already looks in the public 
directory if it cant find a .plan file in 
the home directory.
Some of these complaints may well be 
valid, but were still looking at a situa
tion where were going to try to provide 
the best possible service to the campus 
community, he said. If it inconve
niences one or two people, we will try to 
do things that will lessen the inconve
nience, but you just cantplease all ofthe
people all of the time.
They can call the Help Center, or 
send mail to advisor, and if they dont 
know how to unset the protection, well 
be happy to tell them how to do it, he 
said. Its pretty easy, There are a num: 
ber of ways to do this. People that dont 
want it to happen, can just simply avoid 
it.
For more information, see the 
official, computing-news newsgroup. You 
can also call the Computing Services 
Help Center at x8-4357 (HELP).
Corrections/Clarifications...
Last weeks story, Mistakes leave Senate ballot empty, was in error. Of 
three petitions submitted, only one was validated, and thus only one name 
appeared on the ballot.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Moving files and blocking directory protection:
To create a file named .BYPASS in your home directory:
1) Under Unix (on an Andrew terminal):
touch -/-BYPASS
2) In MacMail:
Under the File menu, choose New Text File." An 
editing window will appear. Under the Andrew menu, 
choose Save on Andrew as..." A dialogue window 
will appear. Under "Save file as," type in:
BYPASS
Then close the Edit window. This file must be in place by
November 14. You may also send mail to 
advisor+@andrew.cmu.edu. The message should say, 
"Please do not change the default protections on my home 
directory. I understand that the privacy of my home 
directory may not be ensured." This mail must be sent by 
Nov. 10.
If you have a .plan file:
You will need to move your .plan file to your public 
directory. On an Andrew workstation or a Unix server, type:
mv -/plan -/public/plan
T TJNIVERSrrY OF
IsraelRbe
Graduate Study in Electrical Engineering
Are you interested in conducting leading edge research?
Are you concerned about funding opportunities?
As one of the hottest small departments in Electrical Engineering, we invite 
you to apply to our graduate programs leading to masters and doctoral 
degrees. Our recent graduates are working for major corporations including 
IBM, Bellcore and DuPont, and are teaching at respected U.S. universities.
Research facilities include a class 10 cleanroom for semiconductor 
processing and a world class multimedia lab with 24 new SGI workstations 
connected by an ATM network.
The Department is part of the recently announced ARLs Federated 
Laboratory in Telecommunications.
Approximately 85% of all full-time students receive funding in the form of 
teaching/research assistantships, fellowships, or tuition awards.
New funding is available for graduate student research in:
 multimedia systems  computer networks
 neuromorphic systems  parallel architecture
 SiGeC heterostructures  interconnect modeling
 scanning probe spectroscopy  terahertz spectroscopy
 photonic devices & networks  wireless communication
For more information contact:
Department of Electrical Engineering/S 
University of Delaware 
Newark, DE 19716
Call Us: 302/831-2405 
See Us! http://www.eecis.udel.edu/ee/
\ACarnegri \MCloCGoe lg rde 
uCtoCgw Cgw hdCwTilwe \aeCi
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm  Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

High Growth Leading 
System Software 
Development Company 
needs software developers.
Locus Computing Corporation is the oldest and premier 
developer of distributed system technologies to the OEM 
market place. We are developing our third generation 
distributed system -TNC (Transparent Networking Com
puting). We continue to lead the industry with our work 
In Netware, TCP/IP, and UNIX to PC Connectivity. In an
other new role, we currently are developing for a client a 
secure transaction layer to enable electronic commerce.
Our engineers traditionally will de
velop and maintained applications in 
the UNIX(reg) software development 
environment. However the use of 
Mach, NT, and similar systems is also 
prevalent.
All candidates must be able 
to read and maintain large C 
and C++ applications. Expe
rience with operating sys
tems, communications proto
cols, and computer architec
ture is helpful. UNIX, WWW, 
HTTP, and TCP/IP experience 
is highly desirable. Knowl
edge of other applications 
such as relational database 
(Sybase or Oracle), productiv
ity tools (MS Word, 1-2-3, 
Netscape, etc.) is desirable.
Locus specializes in the de
sign, development, porting, 
testing and maintenance of 
standards-based system 
software and middleware. 
Our projects are very large 
systems that we take from 
conception to design and 
development. Our clients 
range from traditional com
puter hardware firms such 
as Digital, HP, IBM, Sun, 
Tandem, etc, to large end 
users.
The job opportunity is to be a member of the 
team that designs, develops, and deploy 
these systems and applications for our cli
ents. We are looking for software engineers 
at all levels: BS, MS, and PhD.
We look forward to seeing you on Monday, November 13. If you can not see us on that day but 
are interested in career opportunities at Locus, send your resume to: Locus Computing Corpo
ration, 8 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803, Attn: Karen Haroules.
Oakland/Shadyside 
443 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
I----------------------T
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping
Now hiring.
Experienced pizza makers needed.682-7272
PAPA
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD. 
---------------------------------------T-------------------------------------------------1
$7
95
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
$11
98
+ Tax
10"0ne Topping 
& 2 Cokes
$5
99
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsticks 99
+ Tax$7
Additional loppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
L.
(Mon. - Thurs. 1 lam-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $.70 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating storesLL
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 19955
Hillel plans memorial 
service for Rabin
MEMORIAL, from page 1
students and faculty ... anyone who believes in life, and in 
peace, said Max Gershenoff, an organizer of Tuesdays 
memorial gathering and program director for Hillel.
Were hoping for a massive turnout of people to show up to 
the rally and remember Rabin, said Jeremy Posner, Hillel 
diplomatic chair and junior drama production major. I think 
that his de?*th opens peoples eyes to the political situation in 
Israel. Even if you didnt like his politics, he should be re
spected as a peacemaker.
its a horrible, horrible thing. Those of us who believed 
there was finally progress toward a solution in the Middle
East are devastated. ... 
We needed someone like 
Rabin in order to make 
the move, said statis
tics professor Stephen 
Fienberg. The political 
process in Israel is very 
open now, and the loss 
of one man could take 
things either way. 
Mitch Small, profes
sor of civil and environ
mental engineering, 
called Rabins death a 
tragedy and plans to 
attend Tuesdays 
service. I think Rabin 
was in a unique posi
tion. ... It will be diffi
cult to fill the niche that 
he created. You hope 
that whatever comes 
from it relates to a peace that we can all live with and fulfill, 
he said.
It goes beyond being a shame, a crisis, that Rabin is dead. 
Words cannot express what Rabin did for Israel and the 
world. Dont just remember Rabin and his life, but remember 
the work he accomplished. Dont let his mission for peace die 
with him, said Gershenoff.
Slain Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak 
Rabin.
After eight years, Music head steps down
By SAM SABA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Marilyn Taft Thomas is step
ping down after eight years as 
Music Department head.
Thomas, who is herself a Car
negie Mellon alumna, joined the 
CMU faculty as a professor in 
1981. She earned her masters 
from CMU and her doctorate from 
Pitt, and has a diverse back
ground in piano, composing, and 
computer music software as
During her time as a professor, 
she worked along with computer 
science undergraduate Peter 
Monta to develop a popular soft
ware program called MacVoice. 
The program, which is used 
worldwide, helps students in 
learn music theory and voice lead
ing.
A native of McKeesport, Tho
mas became head in 1988, when 
enrollment in the Music Depart
ment was low and internal tur
moil plagued the department.
My main goal was to expand 
the visibility of the department... 
to put the department on the map 
and raise its level of excellence, 
Thomas said.
Since she became head, there 
have been increases in out-ofstate recruitment, admissions 
standards have increased (mak
ing the department highly selec
tive), the number of applications 
have tripled, and the number of 
students have doubled.
Thomas also changed the Mu
sic Departments look. While she 
was head, 52 pianos were replaced 
with new Steinways, a new com
puter music cluster was installed, 
and practice and faculty rooms 
were renovated.
Thomas also improved public 
relations. Her projects included 
the International Music from 
Carnegie Mellon radio series 
(now airing its fourth season), 
live broadcasts on WQED-FM, 
CDs featuring the wind ensemble 
and faculty members, and Car
negie Mellon Philharmonic per
formances at Kennedy Center and 
Carnegie Hall.
Thomas remained an active 
composer during her time at 
CMU. She has won prizes from 
the National Federation of Music 
Clubs and six awards for compo
sition from ASCAP (the Ameri
can Society of Composers, Art
ists, and Publishers). She has also 
written pieces for the Pennsylva
nia Council on the Arts, The 
American Music Center, the Pitts
burgh New Music Ensemble, and 
the McKeesport Symphony Or
chestra.
Thomas also established Con 
Brio magazine and an annual 
homecoming concert. She also 
instituted CMUs bagpiping ma
jor, the first in the world.
The department is in very good 
shape, she said. I feel I can step 
out and close the door without 
the roof falling in.
Thomass reasons for stepping 
down were more personal than 
professional. I feel a need for a 
change of direction, musically and 
intellectually... working as head 
of the music department, there 
isnt much time to pursue ones 
own goals, Thomas said. I miss
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Music head Marilyn Taft Thomas is stepping down to continue her 
active writing and composing career.
pursuing some of the more cre
ative tasks.
Although Thomas is stepping 
down from her position, she has 
not stepped out of the picture, 
although she is taking some time 
off. Shes planning on finishing a 
book which she has been writing 
since July. The book is on leader
ship and management in the field 
of the arts. I cant finish the 
book if Im being department 
head, she said.
Despite her desire to pursue 
other interests, Thomas still feels 
a bit of uneasiness about her de
cision. I leave with mixed feel
ings, she said. Whenyouve done 
something for a certain period of 
time, its hard to just go. She
said she also felt positive and 
confident in the departments fu
ture progress.
Thomas has played the piano 
ever since she was five. The pi
ano has always been something I 
love, whether it involved writing, 
composing, or performing, she 
said.
Although Thomass past expe
riences have been concentrated 
mainly around the piano, she has 
always gone out of her way to 
pursue different interests.
People learn something and 
become centered around it as they 
become older. Ive broadened my 
interests ... the older Ive gotten, 
the more diverse my interests 
have become, she said.
Israeli PMs murder stuns Middle East; leaders work to preserve peace
RABIN, from page 1
television about an hour after Rabins 
death was announced. The television 
interrupted its regular programming 
'several times with updates.
As the truck carrying Rabins coffin 
'made its way from Tel Aviv to Jerusa
lem, thousands of cars were parked along 
.the highway. Israelis, someholdingflags, 
waited silently for it to pass. Some 
crowded onto overpasses.
At parliament, Rabins body was to lie 
in state for 24 hours, starting at 2 pm (7 
.am EST) Sunday.
Rabin, a former army chief, is to be 
buried with full military honors Monday 
at Mt. Herzl, next to Israels former 
leaders and heads of state. Six generals 
will carry his coffin. Some 3,000 police 
are expected to guard the funeral.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, 
named as caretaker prime minister early 
Sunday, said he would continue on 
Rabins path in peace talks.
There is nothing else we can do as 
comrades, as friends, but to continue 
a great road paved by a great
leader, Peres said, fighting back tears.
Peres, 73, could either form a new 
government, or serve out the 
governments term until elections sched
uled for October 1996.
Opposition leader Benjamin 
Netanyahu announced Sunday that his 
Likud Party would not oppose Peress 
bid to form a new government.
In a democracy, governments are re
placed through elections andnotthrough 
murder, Netanyahu said.
Rabins assassination came at a time 
of increasing tensions in Israel over plans 
to give much of the West Bank to the 
Palestinians in exchange for peace.
Speakers at right-wing rallies rou
tinely called Rabin a traitor and mur
derer, and protesters clashed with po
lice. Rabin voiced concern about politi
cal violence.
Rabins death was the first time an 
Israeli leader was killed since the found
ing of the state in 1948.
At the peace rally Saturday night, 
Peres and Rabin stood side by side on 
the podium, singing the Peace Song
along with a crowd of 100,000.
It was a happy day in his life, prob
ably the happiest day in his life. Peres 
said.
PLO chief Yasser Arafat said Satur
day he was shocked by this awful, ter
rible crime. Arafat said he hoped that 
all of us, Israelis and Palestinians, will 
have the ability to overcome this trag
edy against the peace process.
After the shooting, the suspect, Yigal 
Amir, was quickly pinned to a wall by 
dozens of policemen, the pistol still in 
his hand.
Amir told interrogators that he acted 
on Gods orders, police sources said Sun
day. In his five-page confession, Amir 
said he did not have any regrets. When 
told by interrogators that Rabin had 
died, he said, Im satisfied, according 
to Israel radio.
Amir is a third-year law student at Tel 
Avivs Bar-Ilan University, a religious 
school. Fellow students said Amir was 
close to a right-wing extremist group 
Eyal, an offshoot of the anti-Arab Kach 
movement of the late Rabbi Meir Kahane.
A fellow student of Amirs, identified 
only as Eric, told the radio that Amir 
was increasingly agitated because of a 
series of shooting and bombing attacks 
by Muslim militants in Israel.
He would say, We have to stick it to 
Rabin and his government. This man 
expressed himself for quite a long time 
in a very extremist manner, Eric said.
Police said Amir was a bachelor and 
reserve soldier in the elite Golani bri
gade from the town of Herzliya, just 
north of Tel Aviv. Israel radio said he 
had been involved in illegal West Bank 
settlement activity during protests ear
lier this year.
The Rabin shooting was expected to 
trigger a crackdown of far-right extrem
ists. Security sources say the hardcore 
group numbers 200 to 300.
Rabin was born March 1, 1922 in 
Jerusalem into a socialist family. In high 
school, he joined the Palmach under
ground army and as a 26-year-old com
manded the Harel Brigades that de
fended Jerusalem against Arab troops 
in the 1948 Middle East war.
He served as army chief of staff from 
1963 to 1968, followed by a four-year 
stint as Israels ambassador to Washing
ton. As chief of staff in 1967, he planned 
the lightning war in which Israel cap
tured land from its Arab neighbors.
In 1974, Israels ruling Labor Party 
designated Rabin, then a political fresh
man, to succeed Prime Minister Golda 
Meir, who had to step down after leading 
Israel to the brink of disaster in the 1973 
Yom Kippur war.
Three years later, Rabin himself had to 
resign over his wife Leahs illegal U.S. 
bank account, and he also lost leadership 
of the party to his political arch-rival, 
Peres.
With the 1977 election victory of the 
right-wing Likud party, Rabin moved to 
the sidelines for seven years, but in 1984 
was called back and served for six years 
as defense minister in Labor-Likud coali
tion governments.
Rabin became prime minister after La
bor gained control of the government in 
1992 elections. He is survived by his wife, 
Leah, and a son and daughter.
Vollum e 9m0,Iu,
You Vs0 VlC0, l0
alr nIgmi
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 
(800) 732-7645
GENERAL DENTISTRY
 T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment ____
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
 I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
 Cosmetic Dentistry 
 Pediatric Dentistry 
 Oral Surgery
ACCREDITED ^ FAIN PROGRAM
Tf
A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment 
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking 
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available.Photo by Jonas  1995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University6 November 1995
Housing responsible 
for Mansions upkeep
There is not enough housing 
available on campus. In an at
tempt to solve this problem, CMU 
resorts to placing freshmen in 
the Holiday Inn and renting out 
floors from local apartment com
plexes such as Cathedral Man
sions. Many students jump at 
the chance to live in Cathedral 
Mansions, paying high rent for a 
spacious apartment they can call 
their own. Unfortunately, stu
dents living in the ancient build
ing often find themselves filing 
maintenance requests  every
thing from collapsing ceilings to 
blackouts.  and it becomes the 
responsibility of Cathedral Man
sions, not Housing, to attend to 
these requests. CMU needs to 
take responsibility for their offcampus residents and find a liai
son who can help students with 
these.problems if CMU is go
ing to rent space in a complex 
that is decades old, they should 
be more involved in the buildings 
upkeep.
At first glance, the building 
seems to be a beautiful old struc
ture; any student should be lucky 
to live in such a place, yet the 
neither CMU nor the adminis
tration of Cathedral Mansions 
takes responsibility for the sup
port of these student apartments. 
The result is broken light fix
tures, doors that wont open, ov
ens that wont heat up and nu
merous other problems that go 
unnoticed by housing mainte
nance. In one case, a piece of the 
ceiling fell onto a resident as she 
slept in her bed. In another case, 
a sink on the fourth floor backed 
up and then filled with five floors 
of regurgitated drainage.
If a student notifies Cathedral 
Mansions of the problem, they 
tell the students to ask Housing, 
while Housing points back to the 
custodial service at the Man
sions. Often, such issues become 
the burden of the RAs, who are 
generally qualified to deal with 
the distribution of garbage bags 
and toilet paper  not clogged 
sinks.
However, the problems at Ca
thedral Mansions become com
pounded when considering the 
age composition of the apartment 
buildings residents  half are 
CMU students, half are senior 
citizens over the age of 70. It is 
not the best mix. Because the 
lifestyles of these two ages groups 
greatly differ, numerous com
plaints get filed about students, 
who are up late studying or talk
ing with friends, when their 
neighbors want to sleep. The 
police often get dispatched to 
Cathedral Mansions to make 
residents quiet down. The needs 
of older residents seem to take 
precedent to those of the stu
dents, as they have occupied the 
building longer.
In many instances it can be 
argued that these problems are 
unique to Cathedral Mansions, 
but it is the schools responsibil
ity to make sure that students 
are housed comfortably. Hous
ing should provide better living 
conditions for its undergradu
ates  everything from mainte
nance to overall environment. 
But in the long run, either the 
number of students entering the 
school needs to decrease or CMU 
should invest in better housing 
for all of its students
HUB could reduce 
registration red tape
This semester, the offices of 
the Registrar, Cashier, and ID 
Express were combined into THE 
HUB to provide a location where 
students could quickly take care 
of all of their registrar-related 
business. While THE HUB has 
been a relative success and made 
things more efficient, register
ing for classes this semester was 
still as difficult and confusing as 
it has ever been. The University, 
with the help of THE HUB, needs 
to perfect its method of class reg
istration.
One of the major changes that 
affected the entire campus was 
the distribution of class sched
ules to students. Rather than 
the old method of leaving the 
schedules available in the aca
demic halls, this semester course 
schedules were mailed to on-campus students, and were made 
available to off-campus students 
at THE HUB, to reduce paper 
costs. But many students on cam
pus still did not receive sched
ules, and anyone who went to 
THE HUB could get a schedule 
since the clerks failed to check 
IDs, which made the concept of 
reducing paper costs obsolete.
The course catalog itself is filled 
with errors  Aer for Art; 
Publick for Public  the list 
goes on. In fact, the sheer quan
tity of errors and misinforma
HE MMiErtBJT &1HEDRM MANSIDHS 
MAKES A HEHEARNME f^RPIHG 
THE BOILDIt&'S SAFTET AfM 
F EeN TNANT IS ALMST 
CRUSHED UNtGR  CLLtfSlN6,
Letters to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Computer store 
welcomes input
Editor:
The October 23 Fo
rum editorial on the 
CMU Computer 
Store raised concerns 
about the service pro
vided to customers.
We would like to thank the editorial 
staff for taking the time to provide this 
feedback.
Although the main change perceived 
by customers in the past three months 
may be only the increased floor space 
available to the store, please be assured 
that this is only the first (and in many 
ways the easiest) of the changes under
way that relate to the Computer Store 
and how it operates.
We welcome comments and sugges
tions on how to improve the Computer 
Stores service. To this end, we have 
scheduled an open meeting for members 
of the university community to voice 
issues related to the Computer Store. 
The meeting will be held Thursday, 
November 16 from 4:30-5:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing. Please attend and share 
your input with us. For those who are 
unable to attend this open meeting, we 
invite your comments about Computer 
Store services to storecomments+@andrew. This is a new mail 
address weve created to make it easier 
for customers to share their comments 
and experiences related to the store. As 
always, if you haVe specific operational 
questions related to the store, call x8- 
2636 or send mail to ps00+@andrew.
Laura K. Walsh,
Interim Manager
Computer Store
Tracy Futhey
Director
User Services
Abu-Jamal story 
biased, unjust
sei G3Editor:1GB3Your latest ar
ticle aboutthe caseStudent Center Room 1M
of Mumia AbuLetter tQ 
Jamal, ^Veinglass Crl"+defends Mumia, is til Editor 
incredibly biased 
and unfactual.
I am from Philadelphia and have fol
lowed this case closely.
First, Mr. Jamal is not a political pris
oner.
A political prisoner is someone held 
for a crime of conscience. Mr. Jamal was 
imprisioned after a conviction for first 
degree murder of a police officer. He 
deserves to die.
Second, his original trial was not un
fair. Mr. Jamal was given a speedy 
public trial with legal counsel, and was 
convicted on the basis of the evidence. 
What evidence, for example?
His gun, with his fingerprints on it, 
was missing the five bullets that hit 
Officer Daniel Faulkner, including one 
he fired from 18 inches away right be
tween the eyes. A number of witnesses 
testified to seeing him shoot the officer.
Others testified as to his words at the 
hospital: I killed the Motherfucker. It 
is pretty obvious that Mr. Jamal shot 
Officer Faulkner, and he has never pub
licly denied it, although his supporters 
do all the time in their ignorance.
Third, there are the nagging ques
tions.
Why has Mr. Jamals brother, who he 
claims he was defending from Officer 
Faulkner, absented himself from public 
view for 14 years? Oh, did they not tell 
you he failed to show up to testify again, 
back in August?
Why has it taken 14 years for proMumia witnesses to come out of the 
woodwork?
Why does Mr. Jamals, lawyer assert
one thing in court and another to the 
press? And  O.J. Simpson deja vuhow can anyone take this Mystery Gun
man theory seriously?
Fourth, your comments about the 
Philadelphia Police are atrocious. The 
Philadelphia Police are very rough - 
against everyone who crosses the line, 
That is why the city never burned to the 
ground in rioting. That is why it h 
very low crime rate. But they are not 
racists out to get uppity blacks. They are 
out to get criminals, and they do a damn 
fine job catching the dangerous psycho
paths like Mr. Jamal.
Finally, anyone who wants unbiased 
news on this case should review the 
Philadelphia Inquirer from the past sum
mer, and from 1981-1982. The problem 
with this murder conviction is not a hole 
in the case or fabricated evidence. The 
only problem is when and how justice 
will be done, and when Mr. Jamal is sent 
to meet his Maker.
Andy Byler 
Senior
Civil Engineering
3cx r fT~
mdciit Senate ; J
{..Conservatives;
SXijy -'sf
Dis,SCO
Politic;
fiiEeix
tion makes one think the entire 
registration process was rushed 
this semester. While spelling er
rors are not the fault of THE 
HUB, they do effect their opera
tion. Classes are listed without 
professors or rooms. Without 
room numbers, students cannot 
tell if classes are near each other. 
Without a listing of professors, 
students cannot tell whether they 
want to take a class.
The process of registering for 
classes is still the same exercise 
in frustration that it has always 
been. The administration ap
pears to have tried to make a 
change for the better, but noth
ing has really changed. Since all 
courses can be viewed on a WEB 
site, maybe THE HUB and the 
office of the Registrar should 
strive toward providing elec
tronic copies ofthe schedule. This 
would alleviate paper waste  
the problem the University at
tempted to alleviate by mailing 
out course schedules in the first 
place. The course schedules, even 
if distributed sparingly, are still 
expensive to produce because of 
the heavy, bleached paper it is 
printed on. Other schools, like 
PITT, print their course sched
ules on plain newsprint. Such 
attempts to cut costs might make 
the registration process easier to 
implement.
James Stepanek
New arena proves waste of funds
--------------------------------------------------- As most of you things. They claim that the effects of having the Pirates in
must have heard town are much more than the simple amount of money 
by now, the Pirates spent on tickets.
are up for sale. Not Therefore the revenue generated by the new stadium 
being much of a would compensate the city for its investment. First of all, 
baseball fan mythe jobs generated by the stadium are usually low paying 
self, I couldnt .care all that much about it and thereby I seasonal jobs. They arent a really huge or appealing 
should be able to ignore the proceedings. In fact I would employment source. Secondly, why do these studies do 
have been able to ignore the proceedings if a whole lot of such a simple static analysis? They seem to assume that 
government nonsense hadnt been added. Whats the nonones entertainment dollar, which is presently spent on 
sense in question here? A publicly funded stadium. baseball, would not be spent on something else.
Somehow there is a huge rush these days to have municiI severely doubt that any but the most diehard baseball
fans couldnt find a way 
of spending their money 
for entertainment on 
something other that the 
Bucs. The best part of 
these studies is who did 
them. One of those most 
frequently cited is one 
done by GSIA. We all 
know GSIA is quite a 
prestigious institution, 
but did everyone also
This is often at the heart of many... 
schemes: The concept that the gov
ernment must do something which pri
vate folks dont want to do, but the 
government will make money at it 
palities build stadi
ums for teams to en
tice them to stay. This 
is a big idea thrown 
about with the sale of 
the Pirates. They 
blame the declining 
baseball attendance 
on Three Rivers Sta
dium.
It couldnt possibly 
be the poor perfor
mance by the team or the fans still irritated by the baseball [ know that CMU is a part owner of the Pirates? 
strike. Therefore it has been proposed to build a smaller Dont we see an inherent conflict of interest here? How 
stadium more suited to baseball viewing. Why am I opposed could anyone rely on a study by one of the concerned 
to this? Well, you see the government has no business parties? This defies common sense. Dont you think CMU 
involving itself in this entertainment industry. Its not as f has something to gain if a new stadium is built? 
though the city of Pittsburgh is running a surplus of money At the center ofthe matter, though is a simple idea which 
and needs a place to invest it. the proponents of the publicly funded stadium have wrongThe city is currently $30 million in the red for this year, The stadium should be paid for by those likely to make a 
and they still are trying to think of new ways of overspendprofit from it. 
ing the taxpayers money. Lots of people point to the Ifthe idea is such a lucrative one, why doesnt the ownei 
importance of keeping the Pirates in the area. They say its of the team (present or future) simply build it himself? If 
a matter of civic pride, a sign of the city being large and it were half of the killer moneymaking scheme that the 
important. proponents claim, then one would have to be a madman not
If a city needs a baseball team to be large and important, to reap the profits of such an investment. This is often at 
what are we going to tell Washington DC, Tampa and other the heart of many government schemes. The concept that 
cities which are bigger than Pittsburgh that dont have the government must do something which private folks 
baseball teams? They love to claim that corporations prefer dont want to do, but the government will make money at 
a city that has a major league team  what a load of it. Doesnt anyone see the inherent contradiction here? If j 
nonsense. If I owned a corporation I would be more contheres money to be made, some capitalist will make it. If j 
cerned with the raising of municipal taxes to fund a new theres money to be lost, some politician will find a way to 
stadium and their effect on my profitability rather than lose it. 
whether or not we have a losing baseball team in town.
There have also been a number of studies done on the James Stepanek is a graduate student in MSE. He 
subject of economic multiplier effects and other such welcomes any comments concerning this column.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 19957
Rabin remembered
!
Students, Faculty, and 
Staff:
Then God said, What 
have you done? Hark, your 
brothers blood cries out to 
me from the ground!
-Genesis 4:10
Why should the death of a 
political leader  even a 
heroic one': pain us so 
deeply? By all accounts, con
sidering the violent ends 
during this century of so 
many people of peace, we 
ought to be inured to death.
We ought to be inured to 
death.
Why should it cut us to 
the core, why should it rip 
our hearts out that on Sat
urday, at or around four in 
the afternoon, the Prime 
Minister of Israel was shot 
three times and died imme
diately following a rally for 
peace that was attended by 
more than 100,000 people?
Whatever your political 
convictions, whatever your feelings may be about the ongoing 
Middle East peace process, Yitzhak Rabin was a hero. In the 
biblical parlance, he was a Lion of Judah, stoically inspiring the 
army of Israel during her bloody wars, then standing fast like 
Atlas while carrying the weight of a difficult and unpopular 
quest for peace. We must remember his heroism, his dogged 
determination to build a secure future for his part of the world 
and for Jews everywhere, above all.
Haim Guri, an Israeli poet, used to refer to Rabin as a most 
unsoldierly soldier. Consider, for a moment, a general who wept 
not only for fallen solders, not only for the abstract totality of 
casualties of war, but for every individual death. Consider a man 
with the bravery to fight in all of the Arab-Israeli wars, then turn 
around and give his life as a martyr for peace. This was Yitzhak 
Rabin.
The last public words, the final utterances of Rabins to the 
citizens of Israel and the people of the world were songs of hope 
and pleas for peace. It would appear that his reward was a 
violent and untimely death ...
... but it doesnt have to be.
At 1 pm Tuesday, at theFence on the Cut, a memorial service 
will be held for the slain Prime Minister. This is your opportunity 
to say, Enough.
Enough death.
Enough hate.
Enough violence and enough martyrs.
This is your chance to remember a fallen man of peace and this 
is your chance to say to yourself and to the University commu
nity that hate, fear, and violence do not have to be the status quo. 
This is your opportunity to assert that what we call human 
nature is in actuality human habit and that we can, individually 
or together, have a positive effect on the world in which we live. 
This is the time to stand and remember a great man and to 
rededicate ourselves to the idea that great men and women need 
not fall.
So, at 1 pm on Tuesday, come and say that life is what is 
important. Say that life is valuable, and that death and fear will 
not be tolerated. Come and dwell for a moment on the words of 
Rabin himself:
The time for peace has come. We, the soldiers who have 
returned from battles stained with blood, we who have seen our 
relatives and friends killed before our eyes ... we who have come 
from a land where parents bury their children ... we say today in 
a loud and clear voice: Enough of blood and tears. Enough.
Amen.
BShalon,
In Peace,
Max Gershenoff, on behalf of
The Students and Staff of the Jewish University Center
Hillel Foundation for Jewish Campus Life
Writer ponders unusual words
Douglas Howe
Words. Words. Words. Ham
let once said that, through 
Shakespeare, of course, and it 
says a lot without saying much of 
anything at all. Ive been obsessed 
with language recently. Not 
merely the concept, but the ac
tual formation and application. 
My best friend and roommate said 
something that struck me as odd 
the other day: Ya know, what 
this world needs is life-size water 
weenies. I dont know why he 
said it, or where in his mind it 
came from, but it, in a very strange 
way, just sounded right. Maybe it 
was the alliteration, but I doubt 
it. Weve discussed this point 
numerous times under altered 
states and realized how absurd 
language and communication re
ally is. Take the word book, for 
instance. We all know its some
thing with words and sentences 
and paragraphs that form ideas, 
blah, blah, blah, but what actu
ally is this word book? Say it a 
bunch of times. It begins to change 
its meaning. It doesnt sound lit
erary any more. It kind of sounds 
like someone trying to scare a 
chicken. Boo-k! Some things just 
dont sound like what they are, 
and some just really do. Musty, 
moist panties. I refuse to explain 
how this came up in conversa
tion, but it sounds like what it is. 
No question.
It couldnt have been very easy 
to come up with some of this stuff. 
I mean, someone somewhere had 
to say book for the first time
and have it stick. Thats a book. 
Uh, sure, ok, a book, sounds good 
to me. There are a lot of things 
like that. Lik emilk, another word 
that doesnt quite fit. Some dude 
had to look under a cow, see the 
udders, think to pull them up and 
down, collect the milk, put it in a 
glass, and drink it. Im sure some 
of the idea came from breast feed
ing, but still, going to another 
animal and drinking their milk. 
Thats kind of gross. Then, he had 
to sell the idea. He had to go to 
one of his dumb friends and say, 
Here, drink this! Maybe nobody 
really likes milk, but feels weird 
buckling under the peer pressure 
and saying, Hey! This is cow 
piss. I aint drinking this! 
Smock is another great word. 
Not only does it sound like what 
it is, but its just plain fun to say. 
Someone should write a song or 
something. I dont understand 
why artists dont use smocks any
more. I would think that would 
be the number one reason why 
someone would want to become 
an artist. How much fun would it 
be to get o wear a smock all day? 
I know, some wear smock-like 
jackets at times, but Im talking 
about real, honest-to-goodness 
smocks, the ones from dads closet. 
Its such a joy to rummage 
through some old dress shirts, 
put them on backwards, and paint 
away. Its quite a shame that art 
has become so heady and preten
tious that artists are ashamed or 
embarrassed to wear smocks. 
What is this world coming to when 
a childhood dream becomes ma
ture because it has to become 
accepted by the societal norm? I 
dont wanna grow up, Im a ToysR-Us kid. Thats why Im an actor. I get to play all day long, 
while at the same time do some
thing worthwhile. I only wish I 
got to wear a smock doing it.
Shampoos another good one. 
Sham-poo. Couldyou please buy 
me some shampoo? Thats just 
plain nutty. If you took a minute 
to think about it, youd never con
sciously put anything on your 
head thats called shampoo. Poos 
in the word, for Gods sake. Its a 
sham to put poo on your head. Its 
even more absurd that they give 
instructions on the back of the 
bottle on how to use the shampoo. 
1. Wet head. 2. Apply shampoo. 3. 
Bring to lather (which is another 
remarkable word  lather ) 4. 
Rinse. Anyone who cant figure 
out how to use shampoo on their 
own shouldnt be using it, even if 
its the No More Tears kind.
We.have such an amazingly 
rich language, but we just dont 
appreciate it. The English do. Its 
orgasmic to them. Theyll talk for 
hours about absolutely nothing 
because they enjoy it so much. 
Its part music, part poetry. You 
figure if its the hardest language 
to learn, the native speakers 
should at least take enjoyment in 
using it. Instead, we use barely 
enough language to get by. Were 
not only stripping our society of 
its culture and pride, but of its 
natural heritage. How depress
ing is that? Give fork. Food. Eat. 
Now. We might as well start 
dragging our hands on the 
ground, beating people up until 
we get what we want, and mating 
like animals in heat. Then again, 
I guess were doing that anyway.
Never mind.
Howe likes shiny objects.Humans risk loss of interaction
Editor's Notebook
I was told just 
the other day 
that our genera
tion is pivotal. 
Apparently, the 
decisions we 
make will affect
the world for all time to come. Granted, such a 
statement can be made about any generation. Our 
generation, however, seems to be particularly criti
cal.
Because of the technological advances being made 
with the information super-highway, the programs, 
companies, and laws we choose today will affect the 
structuring of all technological advances to come. 
Perhaps not since the industrial revolution have 
such developmental decisions held so much weight.
So lets make our decisions carefully, shall we? 
When the ballots are passed out, be sure to vote 
carefully. Were going to be asked if we want more 
talk shows or cartoons  for the love of life, people, 
choose the cartoons. Theyll ask us if we want sex 
through machinery or with actual people  Id say 
the answer is obvious, but this is CMU, so folks, go 
with the flesh. Perhaps the option for moving side
walks will come up  fight the urge, people, even 
concrete has a place in our lives'. Just in case someone 
ever wants to stop and have a conversation while 
hustling to class, studio, or the office, concrete offers 
that option while the airport-type sidewalk does not.
Will movies be computer-generated? Perhaps the 
need for actors can be eliminated by downloading 
Nicholson, Foster, DeNiro, Pacino, and Lange so that 
their images can be manipulated.
Folks, I worry about this a great deal. Have you 
read Brave New World or even Fahrenheit 451?
Chances are you havent, unless you were as
signed the books in high school. After all, litera
ture is not exactly CMUs strong suit.
Listen  get out of the cluster for three hours 
and pick up one of these books. The authors put 
a lot of time and effort into warning us about 
where were heading. They may open your eyes to 
the pathetic comfort zone we are striving to 
reach.
Our generation has to make a lot of important 
choices. The first we will most likely make will be 
the same as every other generation: to be a bunch 
of sheep and allow someone else to tell us what to 
do. If you must be a sheep, listen to someone who 
doesnt know what ROM is, or to someone who 
knows but doesnt necessarily care.
There may be great advances made, but the 
foundation of life is still interaction with each 
other (thats how we get babies, for those of you 
who dont know). Radio, film, and television have 
been hard at work for almost a hundred years to 
reduce human interaction as much as possible. 
The net is bringing us one step closer.
When is the last time you sat around a room 
with five or more other people (in person, not on 
broadcast) and told stories for your nights enter
tainment? Do you know that is what people used 
to do on a regular basis?
Dont get me wrong; you should still watch XFiles. But maybe the next time someone asks you 
if you have atouch-tone phone to push one now, 
you should hold the line just to see if they still 
keep real people there in case you have a rotary.
Eric Salzman was headed for the beach the 
other day when he realized this is Pittsburgh.
Really, it doesnt matter, 
but we decided to do this 
whole thing again. What we 
did is ask people: What do 
you think of the apathy 
concerning Student Gov
ernment?
Donald Hoag
Freshman
H&SS
It stems from a lack of school 
spirit, which is also evident at 
the football games.
Ellen Lalumere
Senior
Chemistry
I think its to be expected.
Brian Ingram
Sophomore
MSE
Whats student government?
Jim Snyder/ Darkroom Manager
Adele Chiodo 
Junior 
Civ. E.
I havent noticed too much 
about student government since 
Ive been here.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie IVlellon's Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
.........................Matthew Solitro
Features Editor. Shannon Glbney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Calendar Editor.............Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
...........................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
..............................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Franclne Gemperle
...........................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager..........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager............Eric Strauss
Asst. Features Ed. Jillian Watkins 
Asst. Diversions Ed.... Ena Kahn 
Asst. Prod. Mgr. ..Shantanu Rana 
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Acting Pers. Mgr... Brian Curfman
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Darren Chiappetta,
Chintan Shah
Staffwriters 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
SteveCharnoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, David Ko
ran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, April C. Moate, Angela 
Molloy, Jonmlchael L.T. Moy, 
Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, 
Rick Rikoski, Rick Simmons, 
James Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, 
Paul Tabachneck, Bill Vandenraik, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, 
Susan Watson, Bradley 
Zimmerman, Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hiromi 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Yim
Photo
Vlneet Agarwal, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Howard, Sandy Lii, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Lisa Don, Heather Keith, Jennifer 
Li, Lester Manzano, Elizabeth 
Neuman
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Miml 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Helena McGahagan, 
Victor Ortega, Catherine 
Senderling, M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi,
Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Kaorl Aoyama, Diana Bartolotta, 
Lome Colon, Annemarie Devine, 
Ryan Donovan, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Anukul Kapoor, Hanjay 
Kim, Jay Miolla, Dizzy Murphy, Ken
neth Namkung, Dan Rosenberg, 
Minh Tran, Jillian Watkins, Aaron 
Welsberg
Tho Tartan is tne student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University, It is 
a weeWy newspaper published by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing. Inc. Subscripilons arc avail
able for the semester or academic >car. The editorial appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section arc the official opinion of Tho Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
Individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves Ute right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor arc opinions of 
authors who arc usually, but not necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Harnes maybe 
withheld upon request. Th Tartan requests that letters be no longer 
than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copjright O 1995 by The Tartm. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 263-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Bo 17/Camegie Mellon University/Pitts
burgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in pan by >x>ur Activities Fee.
Ujrary of Congress ISSN *: OSSO-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995
W/Wf*
Administration
' IM Director Mike Mastroianni x8- 
2214; Asst. Director Mike Grzywinski 
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents  
Mike Monico and Sean Keane x2-2900; 
IM Womens President Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
' 'November 7  Intramural board 
. rrieting at 12:30 pm in the New Con
frence Room.
November8Six Person Volleyball 
playoffs begin.
November 9 IM Racquetball play
offs begin.
'November 10  IM Soccer playoffs 
posted at noon at the IM Office.
.November 12 IM Soccer playoffs 
begin.
Soccer
The 1995 Soccer season moves into 
its final week of regular season play. 
The last night of regular season games 
isThursday.
Playoffs for IM soccer will be posted 
in.the IM office afternoon on Friday. All 
teams must check for playoff times and 
da_tes.
Playoffs will start on Sunday. If you 
have any questions, please call !M 
director Mike Mastroianni (X8-2214).
Here are the IM rankings for games 
played through Thursday, November 2.
.intermediate
1. Delt Scrubs (4-0)
2. PIKA (3-0)
3. Navy Blue (3-0)
4. SAE Strikers (2-0)
5. Dragons (3-0-1)
6. PKT Brazil (4-1).TJ. Viking Death Rats (3-1)
Majors
1. FC Schtz (4-0)
2. Real Mellon (3-1)
Minors
1. Deportivo (4-0)
2. PKT Chaos (4-0)
.3. SAE Hat Trick (3-0)
-.4. PI Lam (3-0)
5. Bleeding Suck (3-0)
-6. Viking Death Rats (3-0-1)
7. Kappa Sigma (2-0-1)
8. Siam II (2-0)
9. Melayn (2-0)
10. Pioneers (1-0-2)
W.Qinsn
1. Flying O's (2-0-1)
2. Kappa Alpha Theta (1-1-1)
Six-Person Volleyball
The last night of regular season 
games for Six Person Volleyball is Tues
day. The playoffs for Six Person Volley
ball will begin on Wednesday.
All playoff teams should check the IM 
office Wednesday after 10 am to check 
on jtheir playoff times.
--if you have any questions concerning 
ifalSix Person Volleyball, please call IM 
director Mike Mastroianni, X8-2214.
Racquetball
The playoffs for Intramural Racquet
ball will begin on Thursday. All teams 
are reminded to turn in game results to 
the IM office no later than today.
Chess
All Chess results forthe 1995 Chess 
season must be turned into the IM 
office by November 13.
Playoffs will begin after Thanksgiving 
break.
Schedules
Schedules for Three Person Volley
ball and Backgammon can be picked 
up in the IM office on Wednesday.
Three Person Volleyball games will 
begin on November 16, and Backgam
mon games will begin on November 13.
Officials
Basketball & Floor Hockey officials 
are still needed for next semester.
If you have any interest and are 
looking for a campus job, please call 
Intramural director Mike Mastroianni at 
X8-2214.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Speed Skating club founded at CMU
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Ice skating speed demons now 
have the opportunity to chan
nel their energies through the 
newly formed CMU Speed Skat
ing Club.
Formed by senior Denise 
Soultanian and fifth year se
nior Steven Radney, the club 
has 20 members.
Currently, they are part of 
the larger Pittsburgh Ice Skat
ing Club, which was formed in 
1992.
According to Soultanian, the 
main objective for speed skat
ers is to skate counter-clock
wise in a hockey-sized rink as 
fast as they can. To accomplish 
this, skaters use a variety of 
equipment such as specialized 
skates, helmets, and gloves.
Since skaters can move as 
fast as 35-45 mph, the rink is 
padded in case racers go slid
ing out of control.
Novice skaters do not reach 
such speeds because they first 
have to master various tech
niques. Speed is incorporated 
with skating only after months 
of intensive practice.
Soultanian said, This is a 
great opportunity to try some
thing new. Its fun, and at the 
same time.youre exercising 
your body and meeting new 
people.
Soultanian also said it is a 
great opportunity to stay fit 
during the winter. However, 
contrary to popular belief, speed 
skating is not just a winter 
sport. Many techniques and 
skills can be practiced through
out the year off the ice.
Although previous skating 
experience is not necessary, it
can help members learn the basic 
skills faster. However, the club 
feels that dedication is the most 
important tool. New members 
who have little ice-skating expe
rience usually improve a lot 
within three sessions.
Presently, the club is not em
phasizing competitive skating. It 
is more interested in teaching 
members the basics of the sport. 
Soultanian and Radney have been 
skating since January with the 
Pittsburgh Ice Skating Club.
Because of their experience, 
they will be competing in future 
competitions. They will be skat
ing in Cleveland on December 9 
and 10. Many skaters from 
around the Midwest are expected 
to participate.
Soultanian and Radney are also 
anticipating the national compe
tition being held next March.
Both members feel their inten
sive year-round practice has 
helped them become competitive 
skaters in a relatively short pe
riod of time.
Currently the club practices 
every Saturday morning at 
Neville Skating Rink. Once the 
Schenley Skating Rink is open, 
the team will hold daily prac
tices.
The club is seeking Student 
Senate recognition to expand 
their membership and purchase 
more equipment. With these 
three components, Soultanian 
envisions a bright future. What 
I see for the future of the club is a 
competitive team that has fun, 
works together, and competes 
against other city clubs.
Anyone who is interested in the 
speed skating club should email 
Denise Soultanian (dsak) or 
Steven Radney (sr3g).
Many battle for Heisman
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
Marcus Allen, Herschel 
Walker, Bo Jackson, Barry 
Sanders, and Rashan Salaam 
have shown that the Heisman 
has been a runningbacks award. 
It is a pit stop on the way to the 
top of the NFL. Talent wise, the 
nations top two runners met 
Saturday as Nebraska put the 
spin on the'^x Iowa State 
Cyclones. How
ever, neither 
will win college 
footballs most coveted award.
How about giving it to the best 
player in college football? No, 
that wont work: He is out of 
shape and heading into only his 
third game. Lawrence Philips, 
after missing five games, is on 
the rebound with Nebraska to 
help them win another national 
championship. Nebraskas pow
erful offensive line makes any
one who runs for them look great, 
but Philips is the real deal. If 
Philips had played those five 
games, he would be closing in on 
2,000 yards for the season  
and the Heisman.
How about giving it to the 
nations leading rusher? No, that 
wont work; The unheard-of Troy 
Davis is only a sophomore. Davis 
is on track to reach the 2,000 
yards that Philips is missing out 
on. Only four runningbacks have 
ever rushed for 2,000 yards in a 
college season, and all of them
won Heisman trophies that year. 
Of the others, Barry Sanders 
played on. the worst such 
ballclub, an Oklahoma State 
team that barely broke .500 and 
couldnt have played in a bowl 
game anyway because of NCAA 
sanctions. DavisIowa State will, 
finish with a losing record. The 
Downtown Athletic Club doesnt 
like to hand out Heismans to 
players on bad teams and has 
never given one to a sophomore.
How about another running 
back? Hmm, dam. Around the 
nation, running backs arent 
much of the big picture this year.
kLeeland McElroy 
of Texas A&M 
has pulled off
a vanishing act,1 
disappearing from the national 
scene. Eddie George has been 
consistent, but he is not a 
Heisman act like a Jackson or a 
Sanders. Warrick Dunn is a very 
good part of Florida States of
fense, but not award-winning 
talent. Auburns Stephen Davis 
will make a professional coach 
very happy but doesnt seem to 
care if he puts up big numbers or
wins the Heisman.
All the bignumbers have gone 
to quarterbacks such as Bobby 
Hoying, Danny Kanell, Danny 
Wuerrful, and Peyton Manning. 
The top stat stuffers are all 
quarterbacks. But does the 
Heisman go to a player that 
wont even start on a pro team? 
The NFD. is already saturated 
with quartenW^, and only 30 
can start each weefb N
As the season has progressed, 
each of these quarterbacks h^s 
developed a serious flaw. Kanell. 
allowed his team to lose, throw- 
ing three interceptions against 
Virginia. Manning was 
outgunned by Wuerrful in an 
SEC showdown. Wuerrfuls suc
cess was due more to a great 
Florida team than his right 
arm. His backup started and 
guided them to a crushing win' 
over Northern Illinois last 
weekend. Hoying is only the, 
third best player on Ohio States 
offense. Running back Eddie 
George and receiver Terry 
Glenn have defenses scram
bling if not overmatched.
This years Heisman will go 
to some running and quarter
back combination.
Always a running and throw-, 
ing threat, Tommie Frazier has 
been on a roll since bringing; 
the Comhuskers back in this 
years Orange Bowl. He has 
been somewhat overlooked in. 
the teams huge success, but 
will get more attention when, 
the bowl picture shapes up. He, 
may not be a Walker, a Jack
son, or a Sanders, but I guess 
he will have to do.
Chris Cannon is also a run
ning and throwing threat when 
playing for the 69ers.
Mens soccer squad finishes off a disapointing season
SOCCER, from page 12
junior forward Neil Armstrong got the 
other goals. Carnegie Mellon completely 
dominated their next three opponents, 
UAA member University of Chicago, lo
cal rival Allegheny College, and 
Waynesburg College,'shutting them all 
out. Against Chicago, sophomore forward/ 
midfielder Jason Buelow, Imai, Kuba, 
and Ulrich each got one goal. Against 
Allegheny, Levin, Ulrich, and Buelow 
each scored once. Ulrich scored twice and 
Imai scored once against Waynesburg.
Things (particularly the teams record) 
took a turn for the worse after that win
ning streak, though, as UAA opponents 
Brandeis University and the University 
of Rochester beat the Tartans, 2-0 and 2- 
1, respectively.
Carnegie Mellon beat Grove City Col
lege 3-0, with Imai scoring twice and
Ulrich scoring once. The game against 
Grove City marked the point at which 
freshman Justin Petro began starting in 
goal in the stead of McNutt on a regular 
basis. McNutt was unable to play due to 
injury and illness.
The Tartans traveled to Franklin & 
Marshall College for their next game. It 
went into overtime and wound up a score
less tie.
Carnegie Mellon then hit a streak of bad 
luck, falling into a five-game losing streak. 
Bethany College, an extremely talented 
and well-coordinated team, was first, win
ning 5-1. The Tartans hung with them for 
a while, though, going into halftime down 
only 2-0 and Imai making it 2-1 early in 
the second half.
The team then lost at Washington & 
Jefferson College, 2-1.
The yearly match-up against local rival
University of . Pittsburgh, occurring at 
home, was next on the schedule. The 
Tartans gave them a good game, as they 
usually do, taking this game into over
time, 1-1. Carnegie Mellon appeared 
physically spent after 90 minutes of play, 
while Pitt kept on going, scoring two 
goals in the first of two 15-minute over
time periods.
During this time, the team suffered its 
second key injury. Freshman back Peter 
Truong suffered a knee injury, and never 
played any large amount of time in a 
game for the rest of the season.
After the game against Pitt, coach 
Nick Gaudioso commented on the qual
ity of teams like Carnegie Mellon and 
the difficulty of doing well in the UAA. 
He explained how good this league is by 
first reminding fans that Carnegie 
Mellon took Pitt to overtime after the
Panthers had beaten two nationally ranked 
Division I teams just a few weeks earlier, 
and then showing how the Tartans i 
within the UAA. Their eventual UAA 
record was 1-6.
.The Tartans flew to Atlanta and Neff 
York for their next two games, playinj 
UAA opponents Emory University 
New York University. Emory won 5-0, 
and NYU won 21.
The Tartans finally pulled out a \vi 
when they traveled to Erie to play th 
team from Penn States Behrend campus, 
winning 21.
The last game of the season was at 
Washington University in St. Louis. Tbf 
Tartans lost, 3-0.
Next year looks promising, as the Tar
tans are losing only three starters 
year: graduate midfielder/back 
McJunkin, Kuba, and Levin.
get of F campus.^
needeXcuse to
CARD AND SETfro/
WAMTRAK FARES
Hang out with your old. friends. 
Take your laundry home, and 
eat some real food. Whatever 
the reason, when you get a 
Student Advantage Card, you can 
get away on Amtrak for 15$ 
less. You wont be crammed into 
a car with five other people.
Or stuck on a bus out in the
middle of nowhere. And your 
discount is good for travel on 
almost every Amtrak train.
To get a Student Advantage 
Card call 1-800-96moriEalM, 
And to make reservations, 
call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-800mpHlmalrn, 
Now stop making excuses.AMTRAK
* Fifteen peranl faount good on all rail fores except peak hour weekday Mettolmet'Sento, muMo ond govern fates. On Auto TmiCfifteen perant cfctount is good tn outo he only. Othei restrictions moy apply.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 19959
Umeda said, Under the cir
cumstances, we did well. I think 
the season] went well, especially 
if you consider all of the factors. 
We had a new coach; we figured it 
was going to be a transition type 
pf year.
Umeda said the UAA was a
Hockey club wins two, loses one
JOCKEY, from page 12 minute major. Undaunted, CMU played through
iough power. Voulgaris scored on a feed from Buck the penalty and finished out the period strong, 
and Maddalena, making it 5-1 CMU. Jander, who had skated in to replace Kliegman,
! I am really pleased to see how the freshmen are ended up stopping 17 shots on net, including 
fitting in on our team, Voulgaris said. They seem some nice breakaways. Graduate students Blair 
j0 be filling in all of our holes on the offense. Echols and Tom Sullivan poke-checked eveiy; The third period opened up again in favor of the thingthatcamenearthem while Adukaitis threw 
;artans, with another Buck slap shot off of a feed NYU players all over the ice. The teamwork and 
rom Maddalena. Buck has had a goal in every fluidity of play was on. We gotta play every 
rame so far this season, and the two players were game like this, said Adukaitis.
5|iadowed hard the entire game. Finally, tempers The Tartans are 2-0 in their division and 4-2
pared when Maddalena got a stick to the neck, overall. They will play an exhibition game Fritladdalena turned around behind the play and day night at Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
leveled the NYU offender, for which he was ejected and again at 8:30 Saturday night at Neville 
from the game, and the team was given a fiveArena against Robert Morris College.
Womens soccer rocked outside UAA
doof from page 12
Overall, the season was pretty
crashed to a halt as the Tartans 
lost yet another UAA game 1-0 
in overtime to the University of 
Rochester. Both teams started 
very strong, but as time grew 
short in overtime, Rochester took 
greater control of the ball. With 
five minutes remaining, the Roch
ester offense passed the ball 
through the line and scored.
The Tartans dominated WashUmeda scored twice and Poisson 
scored once with a header off of a 
corner kick by Hogan. The team 
then faced Gettysburg, only to be 
handed a disappointing forfeit 
due to a scheduling mistake with 
the game officials.
Following this, Carnegie 
Mellon took 'off on another win
ning streak, defeating its next 
three opponents. Umedas goal 
with an assist by Caster disposed 
of Seton Hill College 1-0.
They next defeated Wittenberg 
College 1-0, thanks to a header 
from Poisson off a Hogan comer 
kick. The squad then steamrolled 
Bethany College on the way to a 
6-0 win. Umeda scored twice; 
Hogan scored twice, one curving 
around the post from a comer 
kick; Poisson scored once off of a 
pass from senior midfielder Maria
tough league. We just couldnt ington & Jefferson College 3-1;
the close games. Next year 
veil know how it felt, and we 
ivont want to be there again, she 
lid.
The Tartans started the season 
pervously with a 3-0 loss to 
3enison University. They came 
jack strong to defeat Ohio 
Wesleyan College 1-0, thanks to 
fcgoal from Umeda off of an assist 
from junior midfielder Jill 
'Sincaglia. The team then con
trolled the ball against 
Waynesburg College, winning 3- 
pwithgoals by Umeda, DeRosset,
Poisson. CMU battled hard 
bgainst its first UAA opponent,
Case Western Rserve Univer
sity, but suffered the first of sev
eral 1-0 overtime losses when 
[the ball dribbled into the Tartan 
in the final seconds of the 
second overtime period.
The squad came back fighting 
against Allegheny College, and 
wonl-0 playing aggressively and 
taking control of the ball for the 
entire second half. Umeda scored 
the only goal of the game off of a 
pass from Poisson.
CMU then faced off against the 
University of Chicago in a hardslight UAA grudge match. Last 
season, Chicago defeated CMU 
1~0 on a controversial penalty 
kick, denying the team the UAA 
title. This years game was forced 
into overtime, and the Tartans 
were handed their second 1-0 
overtime loss in the UAA.
The team then went on a threeime winning streak, defeating 
Catholic University, Hiram Col, and Brandeis University.
The Tartans shut out Catholic 5
X with two goals each from 
DeRosset and Poisson and one 
from Umeda.
The shutouts continued into the 
next game, where Hiram was 
denied 4-0. Poisson again scored 
wo goals, and Umeda and Hogan 
each contributed one. CMU beat 
op-ranked Brandeis in their only 
JAA win of the season with two 
[oals by Umeda and one by PoisBon.
The winning streak then
Casella, the other team cap
tain; and Casella scored off of a 
pass from Caster.
Emory University then 
handed the Tartans another 
UAA loss, 2-0. Although the 
game did not go into overtime, 
it remained scoreless until less 
than 15 minutes were left in 
regulation play.
CMU beat Grove City 21 in 
overtime. The team did not play 
well overall, but Umedas pair 
of goals gave them the victory. 
The womens soccer team then 
finished its season with a 1-0 
loss in the final UAA game 
against top-ranked Washing
ton University of St. Louis.
This was a hard-fought loss 
that again went until late in 
the second half before Wash
ington was able to score, de
spite an excellent defensive 
game by freshman back Tracy 
Burton.
CMU will be losing four se
niors this year: Poisson, 
Casella, Caster and midfielder 
Erika Banuelos. Despite a 
shorage at midfield, the Tar
tans should remain strong with 
Umeda at forward and the de
fensive squad returning next 
season.
Continued dispute could cause Major League setback
Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
Finally, after a long two-year 
wait, baseball redeemed itself 
with a finish that exemplified all 
the majesty, glory and drama that 
has come to be synonymous with 
the national pastime over the past 
century.
After six gut-wrenching games, 
the best team prevailed, and could 
not have done it in 
better fashion.
Dave Justice, the 
Atlanta Braves 
oft-quoted out
fielder, ripped 
Braves fans the 
night before game 
six of the Series, 
chastising them for their lacka
daisical support.
Then, in the sixth inning, at a 
moment where he could have 
clearly defined himself as the goat 
or the hero, Justice slapped an 
inside fastball from Jim Poole of 
the Indians into the right field 
bleachers.
This ending was fitting for a 
season that seemed to contradict 
itself. Not only did we see and 
experience such heart-warming 
stories as Cal Ripkens streak, 
and the arrival of sensational 
Hideo Nomo, but it was all done 
under the dark and often stormy 
clouds of poor labor relations.
However, it is time for bygones
that baseball realizes that it has 
a checklist which must be at
tended to in order for it to con
tinue strong into the next cen
tury.
First and foremost, the owners 
and players must reach an agree
ment. Itis atthe point now, where 
the future of the sport hinges on 
a new contract and there is no 
right or wrong side anymore.
I dont know the details and I 
dont care to just get an agree
ment that will ensure stability 
for at least the next decade; if not, 
fan backlash could be so severe 
that the game will never recover.
Secondly, it is time to appoint a 
new commissioner. This is the 
only way to ensure some sort of 
accord on a consistent basis
"... the future of the sport hinges 
on a new contract and there is 
no right or wrong side anymore. 
among the 28 egotistical owners. 
An analogy to running baseball 
without a commissioner is to run 
the government of the United 
States without a President  a 
near impossibility.
It is also time to attain a televi
sion contract which will be devel
oped not with advertisers, but 
viewers, in mind.
We cannot hide from the clich 
money makes the world go 
round, but baseball can no longer
hide from the fact that it has lost 
legions of possible youngfans with 
its absurd television setups, and 
that it can no longer afford to do 
so.
Only after these three steps 
have been completed can one be
gin to worry about trying to pre
serve baseball in cities such as 
Pittsburgh, Seattle, Milwaukee, 
Houston, and San Diego. With
out some sort of long-term revenue-sharing agreement, even 
building a new stadium would 
only alleviate the problems -of 
these teams temporarily.
Twenty years from now, We 
would find ourselves back ~at 
square one.
I wish I could sit here and write 
about all the good feelings I expe
rienced this October 
 it was truly a re
markable time for 
baseball. However, 
right now, the spec
ter of last year still 
looms and 1996 
BgggBBBMm spring training is 
nowhere close to be
ing a certainty. Reality has hit 
the baseball world hard this year, 
and right now there is no denying 
it.
This is also the most ironic and 
unfortunate aspect of the whole 
situation; baseball used to be a 
safe comer where one could turn 
to escape the horrors of reality 
even if only temporarily.
Anuj Gupta is a senior public 
policy major.
to be bygones, and it is apparent
PHI BETA KAPPA 
VISITING SCHOLAR 
PROGRAM
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 1 0-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
CMU Undergrads
Participate in a 3 session 
experiment for $21. The sessions are spaced over 3 days, one per day, and last an hour or 
less. Your task will be to learn 
to achieve goals with a 
computer simulated sugar factory. Dates are 11/12/95- 
11/17/95. Contact gibson+study l@cmu.edu for available times and participation 
details.
Tuesday, November 7
4:30 pm, Breed Lecture Hall, 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
A public lecture on
"Sex in America: An 
Overview"
The Iccture will provide an overview of the 1992 National Health and 
Social Life Survey as a scientific project, a political struggle, and 
selected and substantive results and their policy implications for the 
individual and society. Special attention will be paid to the gender 
gap in sexual practices and preferences, numbers of sex partners, 
emotional and physical satisfaction, normative orientations toward 
sexual conduct, and sexually transmitted infections (including the 
threat of the spread of AIDS in the population at large).
Limited seating. Sign up by sending e-mail to 
tangot andrcw.cmu.edu
EDWARD O. LAUMANN
Mead Distinguished. Service Professor of 
Sociology
University of Chicago
You may also hear Professor Laumann:
Monday, November 6
InformaUnnchfQ/disainion;"Public policy and the AIDS epidemic."
11:00 a.m.-12:30 pm. Mudge Lounge 
Sign up by sending e-mail to gt0z@andrew.cmu.edu
QaH.SttiiQilL 
80-136. Social Structure. Public Policy. & Ethical Dilemmas 
1:30-2:20 pm. Poner Hall A 18a 
Contact ps7z+@andrcw.cmu.edu for more information
"Catherine Storr"disctission 
"Rights and expectations of 
personal privacy on the Internet"
4:30-5:30 pm, West Wing Recreation Room, Resnik Hall 
Open to the public
Tuesday, November 7
Class session:
88-240, Empirical Research Methods in the Social Sciences I 
Topic: "Inquiring about sex: methodological issues." 
9:00-10:20 am. Adamson Wing (Baker Hall 136a)
Open to the public
Informal.unchcon/dLXLisnQn;
11:00 am-12:30 pm., West Wing Recreation Room. Resnik Hall 
Topic: Changes in the legal profession, I970s-I990s. 
Pre-law students especially invited to attend.
Sign up by tending e-mail to gt0z@andrcw.cmu.edu
Class session;
79-330, Health Policy Reform: Historical Perspective. 
Topic: Science, health policy and politics."
1:30-2 JO p.m.. Baker Hall 255a 
Sign up by sending e-mail to acker@andrew.cmu.cdu 
**
The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program contributes to the 
Intellectual life of the campus by facilitating an exchange of Ideas 
among visiting scholars, students, and faculty members.
Dr. Laumannud visit is made possible by the generous support of 
the Phi Beta Kappa Society Visiting Scholar Program, and 
Upsllon of Pennsylvania (the Carnegie Mellon chapter of Phi 
Beta Kappa).Edward Laumann is director of the Ogburn Stouffer 
Center for Population and Social Organization and former 
editor of the American Journal of Sociology. Among his 
eleven books are: The Social Organization of Sexuality. 
Sex in America, The Hollow Core: Interest Representation 
in National Policymaking, and The Organizational State: 
Social Choice in National Policy Domains.
LOWMILEAGEMILES.
Looking for the coolest used 
CDs in Pittsburgh? Bop on 
over to CD Trader. We have 
over 10,000 titles, ranging 
from A fropop to ZydecO. 
Plus new discs, rare releases 
i and imports. You might even 
find that slightly used jazz 
classic youve been looking 
for. If not? Hey. with ou? 
grvat selection, you can  
always improvise. -
[TRADER. Used CDs At Record Prices 
201 South Craig St., Oakland. 687-6626
The Leader In Videoconferencing 
Wants To Meet With You.
O/Q* ard meetings that span
continents...a marketing associate in
Ohio sharing ideas (and spreadsheets!)
with an accountant in Malaysia.
Colleagues on opposite coasts meeting
face-to-face from their own desktops.
PictureTel is bringing people together
for a meeting of the minds.
PictureTel is all about videoconferencing 
technology that's redefining the way the 
world meets. As an employer, were all about 
providing a forum for creative thinking, where 
engineering college graduates can let their 
ideas flow. In an upbeat jeans and t-shlrt 
environment, we have built a diverse and 
exciting company that offers hands-on 
involvement as soon as you come aboard. 
Make time to meet with the leader in 
videoconferencing technology!
More information about PictureTel is 
available in the Placement Office, or at 
our Web Site: http://wunv.picturetel.com
If you cannot join us on campus,
I | fl a please send your resume to PictureTel,
I I X lCJCUXtiLvil MAILSTOP 635C, 222 Rosewood Drive,
------ Danvers, MA 01923.
Redefining The Way The World Meets email: resumes@pictel.com
PictureTel is an equal opportunity employer
Please submit 
your resume 
Oct. 31-Nov. 15.
Come to our 
information session 
and Videoconference 
on Nov. 16,
6-8 pm. We will be 
on campus for 
interviews on 
Nov. 17.

---------------------------------------------------

II SERIOUS BUSINESS
Activision is recognized worldwide as a leading developer and publisher of 
interactive entertainment. We create exciting new worlds each and every day!
Incredible growth gives us the opportunity to recruit well-educated professionals 
who desire an opportunity to learn and grow in the hottest industry of the 90's. 
Internships are also available.
For immediate consideration, submit your resume with your area of interest via 
e-mail to hr@actlvision.com, fax 310-477-2735 or mail to:
Activision, Inc.
Attn: Human Resources 
11601 Wilshire Blvd.. Suite 300 
Los Angeles, CA 90025
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Please join us November 12.1995 at noon in Porter Hall 226B 
for our information session.
ML Activision is a registered trademark of Activision. Inc.
g V  1995 Activision. Inc. All rights resrved.
Want to know what it's like to...
...build an 
object-oriented 
Customer Information 
System for 
Southern California Gas?
s, ,s, M e0Umrum0
Ask us.... We re Doing it! Vl0uCv,I0t
Equal Opportunity Employer
What did you think?
Give us a piece of your mind.
Your feedback regarding the annual International Festival is important for helping 
us plan next years program. Please take a few minutes to complete the 
evaluation and return it by campus mail to Anne Witchner, Director of Student 
Activities, Box 6007 by Monday, November 20. Thank you for your response.
I. Please circle whether you are a/an: 
Undergraduate Student Graduate Student 
Faculty Member Staff Other (please
specify)__________________________
2. How did you learn about the International 
Festival? (Circle all that apply)
Posters 
Schedules 
Word of mouth 
Tartan Supplement 
Website
T-Shirts and other promotion 
Other (please specify)
Did not know about the Festival
3. If you were aware of the Festival, but did not 
attend any of the events, please indicate why.
4. If you did participate in the Festival, how many 
events did you attend? (check one)
5. Using the following scale, please rate the events 
listed below:
I Poor 2 Below Average 3 Average 
4 Good 5 Excellent D/A Did not Attend
midleoif
Dr. Rangarajan 
Dr. Keith Brown 
Dr. OmerAkin 
Dr. Shashani 
Helen Zia 
Martin Yan 
Dr. Reza Vail 
Dr. Sutton 
Eli Avidar 
Dith Pran
1-2__________
more than 6_
3-4_5-6
sAyBLyTlUIAZ
Hindustani Concert 
Persian Music 
Philippines Song 
and Dance 
Mayur Performance 
CMU Philharmonic 
Emily of Emerald 
Hill
Chinese Acrobats 
Oopalie Operajati 
Asian Sampler
with Student Performers 
Kun Qu Opera
nwidhr. Ayiulf
Clothing Display 
Puppet Show 
Free International 
Phone Calls 
International Wine 
Tasting 
Children's Activities 
Films
Asian Trivia Bowl. 
Personal Journeys 
Resource Room 
Tour of International 
Classrooms
Fairs
Education/Study 
Abroad Fair 
Food and Vendor 
Fair
syior.. cotgora 
Selection of 
Programs 
Publicity
Timing of Events 
Merger of Festival 
with Family Weekend
6. Please include any additional comments.
aAIyAlStLU
Soccer Tournament

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 199511
Football team sets sights on NCAA playoffs
FOOTBALL, from page 12
ary, completing 13 of 16 passes for 160 
yards, including a 15-yard touchdown to 
junior halfback Buck Neel. For the game, 
Soltysik was 18 for 26 for 246 yards and 
favo scores. The senior quarterback cred
ited his offensive line and the play-calling 
of offensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi for 
Saturdays success.
We felt we could pass on this team, 
Soltysik said. We mixed it up, threw on 
first down, and the line gave me time. 
Soltysik spread the ball around on Sat
urday, completing passes to seven differ
ent players. Mathias led the team with six 
receptions, followed by sophomore Ricco 
Parrish and junior Casey Smith, who had 
five and four catches, respectively.
The defense also came up big, allowing 
just 144 yards of total offense, recording 
five sacks, and forcing three turnovers, 
one of which led to a Tartan score. Junior 
linebacker Ray Ardire and sophomore de
fensive tackle Anima Nwankwo spear
headed the charge. Ardire had eight tack
les and Nwankwo two sacks, -and senior 
defensive backs Dave Coates and Avinash 
Barat each had an interception.
With the win, CMU improves to 72, 
jvhile Juniata drops to 171. The Tar
tans wind up the regular season next 
week at Gesling Stadium against UAA foe 
Case Western Reserve University. A vic
tory in the prestigious Academic Bowl 
would give Carnegie Mellon its fifth UAA 
crown in six years. It could also put the 
(Tartans in position ;o qualify for the NCAA 
Division III playoffs. Lackner said CMU 
can only worry about themselves.
We think they [the NCAA] are going to 
have to let an 82 team in [to the playoffs], 
but we cant control that, he said. We 
can only control Case Western, and our 
concern is to play for the conference cham
pionship.
The game begins at 1:30 pm at Gesling 
|Stadium on Saturday afternoon.
Blues coach dismantles Cup contender
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
Who said that money is no object in 
the pursuit of the happiness? Almost 
one year ago, the St. Louis Blues orga
nization seemed destined for Stanley 
Cup glory in its immediate future. 
Despite having the tendency to over
spend for free agent players during the 
off-season, the Blues always had a com
petitive hockey team that had its fans 
salivating for Lord Stanleys Cup year 
after trying year. All-star forwards 
Brett Hull and Brendan Shanahan 
would lead their fellow troops onto the 
ice with goalie Curtis Cujo Joseph 
poised to block barrages of pucks every 
night. By having one of the premiere 
goal scorers in Hull, one of the best 
power forwards in the game today in 
Shanahan, A1 Maclnnis skating be
hind the blue line, and Cujo between 
the pipes, it was very easy to see why 
St. Louis fans expected so much from 
their hockey team.
However, that scene is but a distant 
memory for St. Louis fans as they wit
nessed the dismantling of their team 
over the summer. In the process, they 
became one of the more comical teams 
in the National Hockey League, in less 
than a years time. And all of this came 
at the hands of one person alone: cur
rent St. Louis Blues Coach and Gen
eral Manager Iron Mike Keenan.
St. Louis, who has lacked a good 
center to play with Hull since Adam 
Oates was traded to Boston, took a step 
in the right direction this past summer 
by signing Buffalo Sabre center Dale 
Hawerchuk. Shayne Corson of the 
Edmonton Oilers was also signed as a
free agent, but the Blues had to give up 
its first-round draft picks for the next 
three years as compensation. In order 
to get their three first-round picks back, 
the Blues gave Cujo, one of the top five 
goalies in the league, to the Oilers. 
Former Los Angeles goalie Grant Fuhr, 
who has had a past history of drug 
abuse and was a total bust last year, 
now stops the pucks for the team  an 
apparent downgrade in goaltending.
Blues fans, as well as its hockey 
team, were recently shocked when Iron 
Mike gave Brett Hulls captain posi
tion to teammate Corson. His reason
ing was that he wanted to wake up the 
team, and it wasnt a personal attack 
against Hull. Its funny how Keenans 
decision was announced 
the morning after Hull 
was critical of Keenan 
for benching him dur
ing a previous game.
Hull defended his 
play and said that since 
Keenan had benched 
Hawerchuk, forward 
Esa Tikkanen, and 
defenseman Jeff Nor
ton, the team suffered, 
since hockey was meant 
to be a team sport rather 
than an individual 
game.
One must ask them
selves if the timing of 
Keenans decision was 
mere coincidence. Its 
professionalism in the 
world of sports at its 
worst, thats what it is.
And just last week,
Tikkanen was tradedto 
the New Jersey Devils 
for a mere third-round draft pick. While 
Devils fans were worried when they 
lost Claude Lemieux, a good fore
checker and last years Conn Smyth 
winner, Tikkanen will prove to be a 
worthy replacement.
You can try to defend Keenan as a 
competent coach and general manager,
and fans in St. Louis should fear not. 
Lets remember that he was a big con
tributor in bringing the Stanley Cup to 
the New York Rangers two years ago, 
the Chicago Blackhawks performed 
extremely well in the playoffs when he 
was coaching them. He also transformed 
Hull from a one-dimensional goal scorer 
to a more complete player who now 
forechecks effectively, dishes out hits 
when necessary, passes to other team
mates, and kills penalties.
But if youre still a big Keenan sup
porter, heres something that will make 
you put things in perspective. Instead 
of Iron Mike sitting behind the bench of 
the St. Louis Blues, imagine him sit
ting behind the Penguins bench this
Amit Kar/Tartan
season. He would have already stripped 
away Mario Lemieuxs C by now and 
given it to defenseman Chris Tamer so 
that the Penguins would wake up and 
play more defense. Im sure Keenan 
would also have some gripe about Mario 
scoring too many points with the rea
soning that hes not letting his team
mates get more involved in the game.
In the eyes of Keenan, center Ron 
Francis would be nothing but disrup:- 
tive to the team by spreading rumors 
that he might consider retirement after 
this season. Iron Mike would be on th 
on the verge of trading Francis for a 
fourth-round draft pick to the New Jer
sey Devils, Pittsburghs playoff arch
enemies.
All-star players Jagomir Jagr and 
Tom Barrasso would be rumored tp 
being traded in a package deal for 
Stephane Matteau and Glenn Healy 
because we all know Keenan has to 
meet his player quota from his 1994 
Stanley Cup-winning Ranger team. 
Similar to what NFL New England 
Patriots coach Bill 
Parcells is now learn
ing, you cant live in 
the past glory days. 
Thats what Keenan 
seems to love. He ac
quires his former play
ers just as a cover up 
for his mistakes..
Now, would you 
want Iron Mike run
ning your citys hockey 
team? Ill leave this 
question unanswered, 
assuming that most of 
you readers are avid 
Penguins fans who 
love their local team;- 
Lets hope that if 
Keenans team is lucky. 
enough to make th 
Stanley Cup Finals', 
theyll either be swept 
by the Penguins or the 
Devils. I can just imag-- 
Business Manager ine it now _ ex-Blues 
forward Tikkanen scoring the gamewinning goal in Game 4 as the Devils 
sweep the Blues.
Jonmichael Moy is a junior IM / ecoii 
double major. Well, according to his 
kinetics kar watch, he must be going 
now... adios!
J)ENDOWMTN)
carrTN)
RAAS ctSe yAwyAZAUSlSthAZ LB SeA YLyz RLSLy kLTwlUbf
AND YOU'LL GET A TASTE OF THE 2 I ST CENTURY. OUR
NU1tUAAytU1 wyLBAZZtLUlFZ lyA iZtU1 IiSStU1 Az1A
TECHNOLOGY TO TAKE FORD INTO THE NEW ERA, AS OUR
.iZtUAZZ wyLBAZZtLUlFZ lyA wyLwAFFtU1 iZ tUSL SeA
NEXT GENERATION WITH THEIR SALES & MARKETING AND
YtUlUIA lgtFtStAZ,
rB bLi 1ylzilSA ctSe l zA1yAA tU NU1tUAAytU1 2NFAISytIlFf 
kLTwiSAyf RAIelUtIlFf rUBLyTlStLU 7AScLy-tU1f Ly 
RlUiBlISiytU1J Ly .iZtUAZZ 2rUziZSytlF RlUl1ATAUSf 
NILULTtIZf sLFtIb x RlUl1ATAUSf RlUl1AytlF NILULTtIZf 
Ly YtUlUIAJf ILTA FLLtUSL celS YLyz elZ SL LBBAy,
LUuS TtZZ SetZ iUtviA LwwLySiUtSb SL Sl-A bLiy SlFAUSZ 
r7E3 EPN YpEpaN OrEP EPN Y3a R3E3a k3Rso7W, ON n33M 
Y3aOoa E3 RNNEr7 W3p
All interested students are cordially invited to attend an
AlintersAnl duddAnl .'
LeAySb PlFFf aLLT DC r / 
[ sR m  sR 
OAzUAZzlbf 7LhATgAy ]
Dress is casual. Refreshments will be provided.
.b IeLtIA, YLyz RLSLy kLTwlUb tZ lU NvilF 3wwLySiUtSb NTwFLbAy,
FINANCIAL MARKETS 
COMMODITI ES 
NEWS
Were Looking for Tomorrows Innovators.
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P. is a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment 
professionals and major companies around the world.
THE POSITION
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for entry-level positions in New York City and Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at least 
two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
We will be recruiting at Carnegie Melon on February 1,1996. 
Contact the Career Services Office if you are interested 
in more information or would like to interview for the 
above position.
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 November 1995
Mens soccer records first 
losing season in 15 years
By RICK SIMMONS and looked promising through Senior back Alan Levin got
Tartan Staffwriter the first third of the season by the first Tartan goal of the regugoing 4-1-1, including three lar season early into their game 
The 1995 Carnegie Mellon shutouts. But then injuries beagainst Point Park College with 
mens soccer team wrapped up gan to play a role in their suea header off a corner kick from itheir 17-game season last week, cess (or lack thereof), and in the sophomore' forward/midfielder 
finishing with a record of 6-9-2. next 11 games their record was Akira Imai. Graduate student 
They started the season strong a dismal 2-8-1. midfielder Chuck Kuba also
scored in this game, which went 
into overtime but wound up a 2
2 tie. The Point Park game was 
very crucial in regards to the 
health of freshman goalkeeper 
Brad McNutt. After jumping to 
save a shot, he landed badly on 
his knee, which he had had sur
gery on several years earlier. 
The knee just wasnt the same 
after that.
The Tartans then traveled to 
Case Western Reserve Univer
sity in Cleveland for their first 
UAA game. They lost 2-1 in over
time, Levin getting Carnegie 
Mellons lone goal.
Then the Tartans returned 
home for a seven-eame 
homestand. They started it off 
with a four-game winning 
streak. Their first victim was 
Maryville College. Freshman 
forward Harry Ulrich got the 
only Tartan hat trick of the seaTartan File Photo son in this 5-2 win. Imai and 
The Tartans had a rebuilding year after losing most of its starters. Please see SOCCER, page 8
Tartans shoot 
down Eagles
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
It wasnt a home game, there 
was very little fanfare, and its 
November. But for Carnegie 
Mellon, Saturdays game against 
Juniata College was sort of a 
Homecoming.
Senior halfback Mike Mathias 
returned to the Tartan starting 
lineup with style, rushing for one 
touchdown and picking up an
other receiving to lead CMU to a 
39-7 win over the Eagles.
Mathias hadnt played since the 
second game of the season, when 
he suffered a broken foot in the 
opening series against Allegheny. 
If he was rusty, though, he cer
tainly didnt show it. He ran for 
39 yards and racked up 60 more 
receiving. His 16-yard scoring 
scamper in the third quarter put 
the game out of reach, and early 
in the fourth, he caught an 11- 
yard pass from senior quarter
back Dave Soltysik for his second 
touchdown of the day.
Mathias return couldnt have 
come at a better time for the Tar
tans, who were without the ser
vices of sophomore halfback Chris
Neupaver. Before suffering an 
injury last week against Roches
ter, Neupaver had racked up over 
700 yards of total offense in place 
of Mathias.
Head coach Rich Lackner 
praised the toughness of his se
nior co-captain.
Mike Mathias is a hell of a 
football player, Lackner said. I 
dont even think hes playing at 
100 percent, but hes out there 
making cuts and [getting] recep
tions. Hes amazing.
Oh both of his touchdowns, 
Mathias made sharp cuts on the 
muddy field to hit paydirt. After 
the game, he said that his ankle 
felt a little sore, but that his foot 
didnt hurt. It felt great, Mathias 
said. In the first half, I was a 
little timid, but in the second half, 
it loosened up.
Mathias was a big part of 
Saturdays victory, but he wasnt 
the only part. The Tartans went 
into the game thinking they could 
throw on the Eagles, which they 
did with great success, especially 
in the first half. With the benefit 
of great pass protection, Soltysik 
picked apart the Juniata secondPlease see FOOTBALL, page 11
Tartan File Photo
The Tartan offensive line did an exceptional job Saturday against Juniata College, allowing senior quarterback David Soltysik plenty of time 
to pick apart the Eagles secondary. CMU crushed Juniata, 39-7.
Close games not reflected 
in womens league record
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
Tartan File Photo
Senior forward Nicole Poisson was one of the top goal scorers for the 
Tartans. Sophomore forward Kim Umeda led the team in goals.
The, w.omens..spccer 
wrapped up it's seasor 
week, finishing <M-7- overall 
and 1-5 in the UAA. The record 
does not truly reflect the 
Tartans competitive UAA 
play. They lost three of the 
conference matches 10 in 
overtime play, and they lost 
the match-up against Emory
2-0 after they held the team 
scoreless until the final 15 min
utes.
Outside of league play, the 
Tartans won every match ex
cept for their season-opening 
loss to Denison University and 
a disappointing forfeit to 
Gettysburg College.
Sophomore forward Kim Umeda led the Tartan 
offense with 14 goals and two assists. Senior for
ward Nicole Poisson, one of the two team captains, 
also had an exemplary showing, with nine goals 
and four assists on the season. Junior back Mae 
Hogan dominated the team in assists, most often 
from corner kicks, racking up eight assists and 
three goals.
j Sophomore forward Lauren DeRosset rounded 
out the top scorers for the squad, contributing 
three goals and an assist.
Freshman goalkeeper Lindsay Smith had a great 
first year in the net. She played in 14 games and 
totaled 1,285 game minutes. Smith had 94 saves
and five shutouts, and had only 12 goals scored 
against her all season.
CMU consistently outshot opponents through
out the season, with ayear-end total of 251 shots to 
0DD0nents 147. The Tartans also forr.fid a hicrhpr 
number of comer kicks, 99 to opponents 53.
The team used these corner kicks very well: 
Hogan often placed the ball directly in front of the 
goal, and the forwards took advantage of these 
scoring opportunities.
Senior back Bridget Caster said, I dont think 
the record reflected how our performance was, 
especially the one loss [to Gettysburg] to forfeit.
Please see UAA, page 9
Hockey Club edges out Slippery Rock, crushes NYU, loses to WVll
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The puck dropped last Saturday on a 
three-game week for the Tartan hockey 
club. Already 2-1, they needed to beef 
up their shots and improve checking, 
while still shifting lines as players be
came more comfortable in new positions.
The first game was a major triumph 
for CMU  it was the first game where 
they played a league rival on their home 
ice. The Tartans ended up skating past 
Slippery Rock University 4-3, but not 
without a struggle. SRU, known for its 
aggressive play, had a lack of strong 
offense, allowing CMU to skate through 
holes and drive to four unanswered goals 
.in the first and beginning of the second 
periods. Junior winger Relja Ivanovic 
came alive, scoring CMUs first goal, his 
second in two games. Ivanovic later as
sisted freshman Dino Sanchezs power 
play goal towards the end of the second 
period. Junior winger Jim Buck came up 
. big again, finding the back of the net 
twice  including the Tartans gameclinching fourth goal  and effectively 
forechecking the notorious Slippery Rock
defense. Jon Kliegman played an amaz
ing game in goal with 34 saves, and was 
incredible up close when the SRU .of
fense did penetrate the defensive line. 
The defensemen were weary 
after the game, as it was so 
physical for them, but thank
ful for Kliegmans exemplary 
performance. Sophomore 
defenseman Paul Voulgaris 
said, Jon is playing great as 
usual in net, but we are run
ning around on the ice a lot. 
Sophomore center Scott 
Fitzgerald said, One of the 
offenses major problems is 
shift lengths. We are tiring 
ourselves out by trying to stay 
out too long. Long shifts wear 
down the team and give our 
opponents an unnecessary 
advantage. Our back check
ing is not always up to snuff, 
but shorter shifts should cor
rect that problem:
That test came Friday night 
at West Virginia University 
in exhibition play. The team 
knew what they were in for: a
freezing cold, half-open rink, huge play
ers, and a lot of fans for the opposition. 
When West Virginia stepped out and 
slammed home four in a row against
Josh Freeman/Tartan
The Tartans charge up ice in their win over New York
starting goal tender Derek Jander, the 
Tartans couldnt get it together fast 
enough to save themselves. Jander shook 
off the first period and played out the 
game with a lot of strength in 
goal. When CMU started to 
get its skates moving halfway 
through the second, however, 
the damage was already done. 
Fitzgerald and senior captain 
Roger Maddalena both scored 
for the Tartans in the second 
with great defensive sets from 
Voulgaris and junior 
defenseman/assistant cap
tain Chris Adukaitis. WVU 
played a third of the game a 
man down, but CMU couldnt 
capitalize on it until the third 
period when sophomore 
defenseman Matt Monroe 
flipped the puck up over the 
WVU goalies head, and it 
bounced in off of his glove. 
Buck came up again with 30 
seconds left and a perfect shot 
that extended his goal scor
ing streak to five games. The 
final score was 6-4 in favor of
Photographer
University.
West Virginia, but CMU was not dis
couraged. They had shown in the thin) 
period that they were a strong club and 
had held WVU to one shot on net.
Back at Neville Arena on the South 
Side on Saturday night, CMU was 
pumped again to get back on the ice and 
face New York University, a team ithad 
never faced. NYU was 1-3 and hungry 
to win after a crushing defeat to Centra) 
Connecticut the night before.
The lines were drawn in the first pe* 
riod of play when CMU tallied four goals 
and had 19 shots on net. Because th[ 
Tartans are not usually a first period 
team, the momentum was surprise 
even to the players. They were up 4-1) 
with goals from freshman Keith Garrett. 
Maddalena, Voulgaris and Buck.
Starting goaltender Kleigman was the 
name of the game in the second, stop* 
ping 19 shots on net, with 31 overall 
saves in two periods of play. Carnegi* 
Mellon was plagued with penalties if 
the second, playing half of the 20-minut{ 
period down a man. The penalty killiHi 
was phenomenal, with wingers Sanch# 
and freshman Andy Oxnard putting 
Please see HOCKEY, pag

---------------------------------------------------

T TT 7T1 T S\01 El D ? B ? EflD O BL1V11U
Volume 90, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 November 1995
<llVf AUSIC COCKS cm. QPfflTfP 'PITTSbUBdtl MU
CMU music enlivens students
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Contrary to popular belief, 
live music does exist at CMU. If 
the general assumption is simi
lar to that of freshman H&SS 
student Brendan Bosworth, 
then the CMU community is in 
for a rude awakening. Bosworth 
said, I didnt even know there 
were any bands here. When I 
found out you were writing an 
article on bands, I said, Where 
are they? 
Bosworth is a guitarist for 
his own band. Currently known 
as Yard Dogs, the band special
izes in jazz, funk, and fusion. 
Bosworth warns that the name 
of the band is subject to change. 
He said, At this point, nothing 
is set in stone.
The band is relatively new to 
the CMU music scene. Com
posed of three members, Yard 
Dogs finds it difficult to prac
tice a great deal due to the hec
tic schedules of its members. 
Bosworth said, We have no 
place or time to practice, but we 
jo through the stuff before we 
play.
The bands first performance 
was last week at Scotland Yard. 
The response to the gig has 
brought about great optimistic 
goals for the band. Andrew Artz, 
i freshman ECE major, said, 
Its kind of funny because the 
other night was our first per
formance. It was like a Genesis 
thing happened. The crowd 
seemed to really like it, and I 
hope the word will get out. It 
went over really well. I hope we 
get to do some more gigs like 
that. We want to build up a 
solid base and get into other 
jazz clubs. Its hard though, be
cause you need to set up promos 
and demos. We just need to find 
someone who wants a record
ing project.
If jazz isnt your thing, maybe 
youre willing to groove to the 
sounds of Ken Flaggs one-man 
band. Known as Extraneous 
Subculture, Flagg works with 
ambient techno. Flagg is a 
sophomore music composition 
major who has been perform
ing musically for eight years. 
He said, I got into this kind of 
music last year because I ended 
up befriending DJs, andI 
started going to raves. It all 
just sort of snowballed.
Flagg described the sound of 
Extraneous Subculture as at
mospheric. I would definitely 
have to call it the thinking mans 
dance music, he said.
He composes all of his music 
and has influences ranging from 
Pink Floyd and Yes to the Fu
ture Sound of London. Flagg 
does not hesitate to use samples 
of classical music in his reper
toire.
Flagg finds inspiration to 
compose music through a variety of experiences. Generally, 
1 write better music when Im 
happy. I try to put everything 
that happens to me in my mu
sic. Its not so much people, but 
 ^ages that inspire me, par
ticularly art, he said.
Flagg anticipates his first per
formance to take place on Fri
day, November 10, from 9-11 
Pm in Scotland Yard. He said, 
^s going to be the first time 
that I will perform by myself. I 
Just hope I dont crash. Im not 
really sure if the Scotland Yard 
crowd is into ambient techno. 
Maybe some people will even 
get down and boogie a little. 
He added, I think this will 
definitely be new experience 
for a lot of people at the show. 
Outside of art parties and raves, 
fchey havent heard this stuff
before. It should be really groovy 
as well as a very energetic set. 
There will be no breaks at all  
which is in part due to the won
der of computers.
Flagg described his music as, 
transient, not amorphous, driv
ing yet subtle. More importantly, 
he concludes that its pretty 
damn funky.
Of course, after you hear the 
driving sounds of Extraneous 
Subculture, you may want to 
mellow out a bit with the sooth
ing yet powerful band Stone Soup. 
The band is composed of three 
guitarists who are also solo song 
writers. Their specialty is folk 
rock. The band primarily per
forms original work and they have 
been working together since the 
middle of May.
Stone Soup has performed at a 
number of local clubs, bars, and 
coffee houses such as Lucianos, 
Cloud9,Thirstys,the Bloomfield 
Bridge Tavern, and Java Jeffs. 
On December 8, they will put on 
their first Scotland Yard perfor
mance of the year.
Though the future looks bright, 
Stone Soup has had a rocky past. 
Paul Tabachneck, a junior in
H&SS and a member of the trio, 
said, A fight nearly broke up the 
band, but our manager made us 
talk. The thing that was lacking 
in the beginning was communi
cation. With three frontmen, you 
have three egos battling. The 
moral of the story here is commu
nication needs to happen, or well 
break up.
Despite this minor obstacle, 
Tabachneck sincerely enjoys be
ing a part of Stone Soup. He said, 
What I like about being in Stone 
Soup is that were all songwriters, 
and we understand where each 
other is coming from. Not only 
that, but what makes it great is 
that were all fast learners. Basi
cally, we can pick something up 
after we go through it one time. 
Its cool working together and 
tightening up the act.
The band has weekly rehears
als that Tabachnek says are vital 
to the productivity of Stone Soup 
since, you cant maintain a band 
without some kind of rehearsal. 
If we have a gig, well run through 
the full set and work out any 
problems or glitches in the songs. 
You can hear Stone Soup perPlease see BANDS, page L4
Burgh bands 
awaken city
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Calendar Editor
As an escape from campus life and 
an opportunity to venture out into the 
city, many CMU students enjoy the 
wide array of live music that is offered 
throughout Pittsburgh.
From classical to jazz and rock, 
many bands flock to numerous clubs 
and cafes in the area, giving students 
a chance to experience new music 
firsthand.
All our shows that we do are in the 
Graffiti Showcase [located in 
Shadyside], said John Renaldo, con
cert promoter and owner of Joker 
Productions. From big national acts 
to small bands, reggae to alternative, 
theres a following for all types, he 
added.
While the most popular outlets for 
local bands to play are clubs such as 
Lucianos or Calicos, the best place to 
see live performances is at the Graf
fiti Showcase, said Renaldo.
Clubs such as Lucianos downtown, 
Calecos in Oakland, Rosebud and 
Cloud Nine in the Strip District, pro
vide music in small settings and a 
chance to see what the local scene has 
to offer. They tend to be a more popu
lar on the college level, said Renaldo.
I think these places are a great 
place to see your friends band play, or 
a favorite in the area, he said.
In fact, many CMU students find 
that small bars and clubs not only 
offer weekend entertainment but also 
serve as viable settings in which de
veloping artists can test their talents.
Sophomore CS major Pablo 
Mayrgundter said, Playing at local 
clubs is a great way for students to 
explore their talents.
Lots of times Ive gone to see a band 
play, not just to support my friends 
but also to experience what kind of 
music is being produced in the city, 
he added.
Live shows are important because 
they add another dimension to the 
music, said Zuleikha Spencer, a 
sophomore industrial design major. 
Its another form of expression that 
adds to the way people feel about 
music, she added.
Featuring a slightly different music 
scene, coffeehouses such as Java Jeffs 
and the Beehive bring musicians to 
play weekly, generally local talents 
who want to play to express their 
music.
The Oakland Beehive welcomed 
Veman Yard recording artists, Maid 
of Gravity this past week for a free 
acoustic show with free coffee and 
promotional items given away. Java 
Jeffs Coffeehouse in Squirrel Hill 
holds open music nights every Thurs
day at 8:30 pm with no cover charge.
We mainly bring in acoustic rock. 
If a particular group or performer 
wants to play, they send us a tape of 
their music: we listen to it and decide 
ifits right for this environment  
Java J effs is a small placeand then 
we schedule them to perform, said 
Evelyn Wack of Java Jeffs.
Its usually solo artists that are 
interested in playing [at Java Jeffs], 
but groups as well as individuals are 
welcome to submit tapes, said Wack.
The turnout depends on anything 
from whos playing to the moon, he 
added.
Renaldo finds that while there is a 
following for many music types in 
Pittsburgh, interest is small in com
parison to other cities.
Attendance to performances are 
unstable in number because the draw 
to see new bands, new great bands, is 
limited, he said.
Even if the opportunities to see live 
music, especially music that originates 
in Pittsburgh, are innumerable, I cant 
say that Pittsburgh is the next Se
attle, he added.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995
I,
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
For most students, sur
vival at CMU is a 
difficult task to 
master. Students 
need to be able to 
balance aca
demic and -so
cial success 
with factors 
such as time, 
sleep, food, 
and money.
What 
students 
recommend 
for enduring 
the stress and 
pressure of CMU?
Thirty random Cut-wandering students were asked for 
their advice on surviving at 
CMU.
The top 10 things that stu
dents in the survey group rec
ommend as Survival Gear for 
CMU are:
1. Vivarin/Caffeine/Soda
2. Computer
3. Calculator
4. Friends
5. Umbrella/Raincoat
6. Good Food/Snacks
7. Sense of Humor
8. Warm Clothes
9. Wrist Watch
10. Calendar/ Planner
Other items that the surveyed
students recommended were: 
alarm clocks, money, a good col
lection of music, groups to study 
with, off-campus housing, books 
for classes, stress outlet, time,
thick skin, beer, and duct tape.
How else does a student strive 
for success at CMU? The follow
ing are suggestions made by some 
of the surveyed students:
1) Do not procrastinate. 2) If 
you see something you like, go for 
it. 3) Take it easy. Enjoy it while 
it lasts, said Bader Al-Essa a 
sophomore
MechE major.
Go places to see how people 
really are. It is easy to forget if 
you dont get away from school,  
said Mike Ayers a graduate stu
dent in psychology.
Go to your classes regularly. 
Dont burn out, said Julie Dunn 
a sophomore math major.
For success, you have to know 
your limits and not to over-extend yourself, said Tamara 
Gabriel a freshman IM major.
Dilip Mujumdar, sophomore, 
MechE/EPP major, said, Man
age your time well. Play intra
mural sports to relieve stress,
and do not procrastinate. 
Try to have fun, be open, 
and work your butt off, said 
Adam Vincent, a sophomore 
in IDS.
Study hard, play hard, get 
off campus occasionally, and 
dont stereotype or be stereo
typed, said Sudhir Reddy, a 
sophomore psychology major.
Randy Nordstrom, a fresh
man ECE major, said, Dont 
spend your whole life staring 
at a computer, playing games 
or otherwise.
Study hard and graduate 
fast, suggested an anony
mous student.
When the survey group was 
asked about what should be 
avoided on campus, 60 per
cent recommended that 
dining services and campus food were some 
things to avoid.
Some other suggestions 
were:
Avoid anal and ignorant 
people, said Reddy.
Flee from salesmen in front 
of Doherty, said Vincent. 
You should try to avoid 
the guys handing out the 
religion books, said Adam 
Teshinsky, junior creative 
writing major.
Get away from the rain,  
said Aiton Goldman, a sopho
more SDS major.
Avoid getting hit by those 
fast-moving red golf-carts 
which drive around campus, 
said an anonymous source.
Armed with an arsenal of 
survival gear for CMU and 
supplied with the latest sur
vival tips and knowledge of 
things to avoid, go forth and 
conquer the vast concrete laby
rinths of CMU.
Andrew Wang is a sophomore 
ECE CS major.
"D.  Shaw & Co. 
is in the vanguard 
of computerized trading."
 The Wall Street Journal
Please contact Career Services 
or send your resume with your 
GPA and SAT scores to:
D. E. Shaw & Co.
39th Floor, Tower 45 
120 West Forty-Fifth Street 
New York, NY 10036 
Attn: Strategic Growth 
e-mail: recruit@deshaw.com
Suit and Tie 
not Required
Breast fixation harms women
Cracking the Myth
by Amber Benezra
,cWomen are having breast sur
gery, liposuction, rhinoplasty, not 
only as rewards for attaining 
power (a current trend in the 
United States is for graduating 
daughters to get breast implant 
surgery while boys get the tradi
tional grand tour of Europe) they 
are also having these things, be
ing ashed to have. them, as anti
dotes for having attained this 
power.
Naomi Wolf, The Beauty Myth
Breasts. They are a fascination 
to men, to this culture as a whole, 
and to me. I was one of those girls 
who had to wear a bra in fifth 
grade and ended up wearing 
baggy shirts and slouching the 
next 10 years of my life to hide 
my enormous chest. Flat-chested 
friends were jealous and mean, 
always telling me that they would 
trade breasts with me in a minute. 
The thing is, my breasts didnt fit 
the Official Patriarchal Breast 
Ideal either  they were too 
floppy, not high, pert, or firm 
enough.
Breasts represent youth, femi
ninity, maternal responsibility, 
and ultimately beauty. A woman 
cannot feel good about herself 
unless she feels good about her 
breasts, and she cant feel good 
about her breasts unless they mir
ror the imaginary perfect breast
 symmetrical and young-look
ing.
What Wolf calls beauty cen
sorship prohibits women from
knowing about other real women 
and their real breasts, because 
all we ever see represented is the 
perfect breast; all other breasts 
are canceled out. Many young 
women feel like they alone have 
breasts that are too small, too 
big, too saggy or too low.
Many women see cosmetic sur
gery as a means to deal with 
these feelings of inadequacy. Al
though a pervasive beauty ideol
ogy forces healthy women to see 
themselves as sick and deformed, 
money is the driving factor be
hind this industry. In the United 
States, cosmetic 
surgery 
grosses $450
Em I) year and in^ I creases anleast 150,000 
M American women 
have cosmetic 
J M  breast surgery evM MAs Wolf com:
* M ments, A woman
I who thought she 
was sick with fe^ maleness couldnt 
buy an ultimate cure for her gen
der. But a woman who thinks she 
is sick with female ugliness is 
now being persuaded to think that 
she can. Since, in reality, there 
is nothing wrong with womens 
faces or bodies that cant be healed 
through social change, surgeons 
depend for their income on warp
ing female self-perception and 
multiplying female self-hatred, 
writes Wolf.
The reason I have been think
ing so much about breasts lately 
is because of my Aunt Trudy. For 
as long as I can remember, she 
has joked about being flat
chested. She has also kiddingly 
mentioned that someday she was 
going to get that boob job that she 
always wanted. On the phone the
other day, she announced that 
she was finally going through 
with it; she was getting breast 
enlargement surgery with saline 
implants.
In response, I listed all the 
health risks to her: death (1 in
30,000 die during cosmetic sur
gery), hardening of scar tissue 
around the implants (this hap
pens in 7 out of 10 cases), harden
ing of the implant which requires 
removal, deflation, leakage (lets 
not forget the hundreds of thou
sands of women who are suing 
Dow Coming now because they 
got sick from their silicone im
plants), mutilation of the nipple 
(which inevitably affects a 
womans erotic stimulation), and 
nerve damage. Most disturbingly, 
however, implants make it harder 
to detect cancer.
After hearing all of this, her 
only reply was, I am 50 years 
old. I dont care about all those 
things. I want to do this for my
self. What kind of whacked-out 
world do we live in where healthy 
women voluntarily undergo un
necessary surgery? Most women 
who get breast surgery are like 
my Aunt Trudy  they are mar
ried or in stable relationships. 
Moreover, one-third of these 
women are mothers whose 
breasts have Atrophied after hav
ing children.
Wolf says, This sexual mutila
tion is not about relations be
tween real men and women. It is 
about womens sexuality trapped 
in the beauty backlash, in spite of 
men who love them. In a diseased 
environment, they are doing this 
for themselves. 
I couldnt talk Aunt Trudy out 
of it. So, the next time I see her, 
shell have bigger, more firm and 
totally unnatural breasts. Will 
she be happier? If she is, isnt 
that just as messed up?
Amber Benezra is a senior En
glish major.
D. E. Shaw & Co. is a small 
(around 230 employees), highly 
capitalized (over a half billion 
dollars in partners' equity), very 
successful Wall Street firm 
specializing in various aspects of 
the intersection between tech
nology and finance. We are now 
seeking world-class talent in a 
variety of fields, and are prepared 
to compensate exceptionally 
gifted individuals at a level 
exceeding that of the market.
Students get survival tips

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995L3
Company jazzes up products with Bebox dual-processor computer
Focused on the 
Internet
by Kenton Shaver
For those not familiar with Be 
Inc., it is a high-tech startup 
company that has fielded a dual
processor computer, the Bebox, 
aimed at the lunatic fringe [of 
the programming community], 
said company president Joseph 
Palmer.
He recently talked to Focused 
on the Internet about Be and the 
Bebox.
Focused on the Internet: First, 
what is your position at [Be Inc]? 
Can you tell me a bit about the 
company?
Joseph Palmer: Im Joseph 
Palmer, director of hardware 
engineering.
FI: When was [Be Inc] incorpo
rated? When didyou join it? What 
is its mission?
JP: Be is about 5 years old. I 
started about 18 months ago.
FI: And the mission of Be?
JP: Mission is such a strong 
word. We have created a new 
system from the ground up in 
order to get back all of the perfor
mance lost in layers of legacy 
software.
FI: What market is the Bebox 
aimed at? Who would you like to 
buy one? Everyone?
JP: No! We cant make that 
many. We are aimed at two mar
kets: the power users who will be
writing their own software, and 
the AV Market. We cant com
pete in the office automation 
world with [Microsoft] and 
[Apple].
FI: The AV is for audio-vi
sual? What are the Beboxs fea
tures in this area?
JP: Yes. Mostly its in the soft
ware. We have a real-time sys
tem for passing data streams 
around. Hardware-wise, add 
cards in the PCI slots for new AV 
features.
FI: I read that a lot of compo
nents are left to the Bebox pur
chaser to assemble. Spe
cifically, what is he or she 
expected to buy or trans
fer? What brands are sup
ported?
software guys.
FI: There is a big Mac presence 
on campus. You were formerly an 
Apple hardware engineer. What 
lured you to Be from that posi
tion?
JP: I worked on the 840av/ 
660av teams. After we shipped, 
our team was broken up. I de
cided Id rather work for a much 
smaller company.
If you remember, the Newton 
was released the day after the AV 
systems, and that got all of the 
press.
So I looked around for a startup 
where I could work on the most 
important, if not the most visible
603 was chosen for multiprocess
ing?
JP: The 603 is pretty much the 
same speed as the [601], and is 
much easier to clock.
Since all of our code is native, 
the smaller caches do not affect 
our performance significantly.
FI: Where can those interested 
see a Bebox in action?
JP: Gee, Im not sure. We want 
to do a showing here in Silicon 
Valley, but we do not yet have 
plans for a nationwide road show.
FI: When you do, will it be anWe have created a new system from the ground 
up in order to get back all of the performance 
lost in layers of legacy software, "
 Joseph Palmer; 
director of hardware engineering for Be Inc.
FI: If, for a moment, we could go 
back .... What are the differences 
between working at a large com
pany like Apple, and at a small 
company, like you are at now? 
Please tell us more about that.
JP: I love working at a small 
company! I get to do everything. 
I architect the system, capture 
the schematics, and lay out the 
boards, by hand, myself.
At Apple, every decision has to 
go through so many people, its 
just ridiculous. At Be we all see 
each other every day. In fact, we 
all go out and get lunch and usu
ally bring it back to eat around 
some beat up old coffee tables in 
our lobby. Thats everyone, from
__________ Jean-Louis to the
receptionist.
JP: We only supply the 
boards, box, and the 
power supply. We are now 
deciding on the floppy 
drive.
We support IDE and 
SCSI hard drives, (nearly all of thing, in the company, 
them I think), and right now the 
#9GXE Graphics card, the 3Com 
3C503, and the NE200 Ethernet 
cards. Users must also add their 
own RAM (72 Pin SIMMs, 60 ns).
FI: Jean-Louis is 
the CEO of Be?
JP: Yes, former 
VP at Apple. JeanLouis Gassee.
FI: How is the Be OS provided 
to the purchaser if no hard disk 
drive is included? Are there any 
firms who are currently filling 
out Bebox systems and selling the 
whole package?
JP: We provide a CD-ROM for 
the software. We are working on 
setting up a VAR to build up 
systems.
FI: You said that you work with 
hardware, but can you tell us 
something about the Be OS?
JP: Not very much. It would be 
better for you to mail in 10 ques
tions, and I will pass them to the
FI: What sets a Bebox apart 
from a Mac, a [PC], or a [Sun] 
workstation  machines our 
[computer store] sells to 
[undergrads]?
JP: The fact that we started 
over in the software and got rid of 
all the layers of software.
FI: Can you explain what you 
mean by that? How does the Bebox 
hardware assist in this goal?
JP: The hardware is really a lot 
like, a Pentium system, except 
that we have 2 [PPC 603s].
The hardware helps by provid
ing a [two -processor] platform at 
a very low price. The OS really 
schedules threads to run on both 
processors.
FI: Is there a reason why the
nounced on your web site, [http:/ 
Iwww.be.com], then?
JP: We see our web site as our 
primary contact between us and 
our developers and eventual cus
tomers.
All news about Be will appear 
there. In fact, the web site was up 
the night before the announce
ment, so in reality we announced 
on the web!
FI: That is a very interesting 
point. The [Internet] is the sole 
source of information by and to 
Be, Inc. from a customers or 
distributors view?
JP: There will be other sources, 
but basically we feel that the 
unedited flow of information be
tween us and our developers and 
users is critical. Im not sure what 
you want to know about distribu
tors.
FI: What differenEHSZHSHEHH tiates Be from NeXT 
Computer, the Steve Jobs start
up that began with its own hard
ware and software?
JP: A lot of things:
1. We are really small, only 22 
people, so we dont need to sell 
lots of machines to stay in the 
business.
2. We are aimed at a couple of 
vertical markets, AV and the 
technophiles. NeXT wanted a 
horizontal slice of the market, 
upper education, which means 
they needed apps in every cat
egory to replace PCs or Macs.
3. We are at a better time, his
torically, just because of the 
[PowerPC] processor and the re
ally low cost of peripherals.
4. Like NeXT, we have cool tech
nology, but we wrote all of the OS
ourselves, so we really control 
everything. This really shows in 
the way that we can really make 
use of multiple processors.
5. We plan to stay small, so we 
have no big infrastructure for 
decision making. A programmer 
takes on a task and decides him
self the best way to do it, without 
having to convince the rest of the 
team.
FI: NeXT was big on this cam
pus  they used the [Mach micro 
kernel] as the technology behind 
their multitasking operating sysr 
tem. Does the Be OS, if you know, 
use the Mach model or something 
like [Chorus] for its multitasking?
JP: I understand its our own 
OS from the ground up. It does, 
however, have the best ideas from 
most modern kernels. That would 
be a better mail-in question.
FI: Earlier you said that the 
price of peripherals was low. That 
is still not true of SIMMs. How 
many does a Bebox ideally have? 
How much RAM, I mean?
JP: We have a lot of people 
internally on 8 MB. Thats prob
ably a little tight (VM Thrash
ing); 16 is very good. We support 
up to 256 with normal 32MB 
SIMMs and 1GB with Funny 
SIMMs.
FI: Funny SIMMs?
JP: Yeah, 128 MB, Ive heard of 
some prototypes. Very expensive.
FI: Thanks for talking with us, 
Joseph.
JP: My pleasure. 
Kenton Shaver is a senior En
glish major. The full text of this 
interview, as well as others, is 
available on the web. Browse 
http:I / www.club.cc.cmu.edu / 
~kentoji / home.html
USTRALIA
SIA
Tokyo$408
Hong Kong$444
Bangkok$483
Seoul$483
Beijing$642
Auckland$705
Sydney$669
Perth$876
Airfares are from Pittsburgh each way based on a round trip purchaseand may requirean International Student,Youth or Faculty l.D. Taxes & surcharges are not included. Fares are subject to change.
CouncilTrawl
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http:/www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 MeyranAve, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
*
I MISS PENNSYLVANIA USASM PAGEANT |
I Official f^faJwiinjcuty $ 
J&& USkfujamb \
H0 PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you are an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 by February 1,1997, never 
married and at least asix month resi
dent of Pennsylvania, thus college 
dorm students are eligible, you could 
be Pennsylvania's representative at 
the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
USA Pageant* in February 1997 to 
compete for over $200,000 in cash 
and prizes. The Miss Pennsylvania 
USA Pageant for 1997 will be pre
sented at the Palace Inn, Monroeville, 
Pennsylvania, March 2 & 3, 1996- 
The new Miss Pennsylvania USA, along 
with her expense paid trip to compete in the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
USA Pageant, will receive over $2,000 in cash among her many prizes. All 
ladies interested in competing for the title must respond by mail. Letters 
must include a recent snapshot, a brief biography, -Y'- 
address and a phone number. WRITE TO:
inyxt ml;; cpuun,wodutd Cnd cdgpduy
~R! ooTii-SlaleHeadquaners-DepLCA ACarrtrnProduction ;
iMJ 317 Lccusl Avenue, Waifirqixi, PA 15301
*



m
Tri Stale Headquarters Phone ts (412) 225-534320 jew of 
Pageutry id a Purpose'"1
Application Deadline is December 16, 1995 
Miss USA0 Pageant is pari of the Madison Square Garden family. 
Miss Pennsylvania USA* Pageant is A Carvern Production "
MANNES
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
The Orion String Quartet
Daniel Phillips, Violin 
Todd Phillips, Violin 
Steven Tenenbom, Viola 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello 
Yajima-Ni-McDonald Trio 
Hiroko Yajima, Violin 
Hye-Ye Ni, Violoncello 
Robert McDonald, Piano 
Areopagitica 
Chris Gekker, Trumpet 
David Jolley, French horn 
David Taylor, Trombone
The Newman-OItman Guitar Duo
Michael Newman 
Laura Oltman 
Stringed Instruments 
Nina Beilina, Violin 
Felix Galimir, Violin 
Shirley Givens, Violin 
Lewis Kaplan, Violin 
Ani Kavafian, Violin 
David Nadien, Violin 
Daniel Phillips, Violin 
Todd Phillips, Violin 
Aaron Rosand, Violin 
Anne Setzer, Violin 
Sally Thomas, Violin 
Hiroko Yajima, Violin 
Lillian Fuchs, Viola 
Caroline Levine, Viola 
Paul Neubauer, Viola 
Michael Ouzounian, Viola 
Karen Ritscher, Viola 
Steven Tenenbom, Viola 
Walter Trampler, Viola 
Carter Brey, Violoncello 
Myung Wha Chung, 
Violoncello 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello 
Melissa Meell, Violoncello 
Irene Sharp, Violoncello 
Paul Tobias, Violoncello 
Julius Levine, Double Bass 
Homer Mensch, Double Bass 
Orin O'Brien, Double Bass 
Piano
Edward Aldwell 
Arkady Aronov 
Stephanie Brown 
Vladimir Feltsman 
Richard Goode 
Grant Johannesen 
Lilian Kallir 
Jacob Lateiner 
Leon Pommers 
Josef RaiefF 
Thomas Sauer 
Peter Serkin 
Nina Svetlanova 
Diane Walsh 
Organ and Church Music 
Ford Lallerstedt 
McNeil Robinson
Artistry 6 Community
At Marines they go together. The skills, understanding and originality of 
artistry are fostered by a superb faculty in a caring and supportive 
community. Thats why Mannes graduates succeed.
1996 AUDITIONS 
New YorkJanuary 4, 1996 February 26, 27, 28, 29, 1996 March 1, 1996 May 20,21,22, 23,24, 1996 
August 1996 dates to be announced 
Chicago January 30, 1996 
at Fine Arts Building 
Los Angeles 
January 31, 1996 at The Music Center of Los Angeles County 
San Francisco February 1, 1996 at War Memorial Opera House
Harp
Susan Jolles 
Lucile Lawrence
Timpani and Percussion 
Norm Freeman 
Ben Herman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Glen Velez
Woodwinds and Brass
Judith Mendenhall, Flute 
Elaine Douvas, Oboe 
John Ferrillo, Oboe 
Mark Hill, Oboe 
Linda Strommen, Oboe 
William Blount, Clarinet 
David Krakauer, Clarinet 
Ricardo Morales, Clarinet 
Peter Simenauer, Clarinet 
David Carroll, Bassoon 
Leonard Hindell, Bassoon 
Judith Leclair, Bassoon 
Patricia Rogers, Bassoon 
Allen Won, Saxophone 
Ranier Delntinis, French horn 
David Jolley, French horn 
Philip Myers, French horn 
Mel Broiles, Trumpet 
Chris Gekker, Trumpet 
Vincent Penzarella, Trumpet 
Per Brevig, Trombone 
David Taylor, Bass trombone 
Stephen Johns, Tuba
Conducting
Michael Charry, Orchestral 
Amy Kaiser, Choral
Voice
Richard Barrett 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elkus 
Ruth Falcon 
Bonnie Hamilton 
Antonia Lavanne 
Martin Lies 
Dan Marek 
Linda Pierce Hunter 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
Diction
Marianne Barrett,
German 
Nico Castel, French,
German & Italian 
Kathryn LaBouff,
English 
Barbara Peters,
Italian 
Palma Toscani.
French
Movement
Philip Burton
Opera
Brian Zeger, Chairman 
Christopher Alden 
Renato Capecchi 
Will Crutchfield 
Joan Dornemann 
Neal Goren 
Benton Hess 
Rhoda Levine
Song Interpretation
Antonia Lavanne
Classical Guitar
Frederic Hand 
Michael Newman
ContemporaryEnsemble
Madeleine Shapiro, 
Director
Percussion Ensemble
Jim Preiss, Director
Historical Performance Ensembles
The Mannes Baroque 
Chamber Players,
Nancy Wilson, Director 
The Mannes Camerata 
The Mannes Baroque 
Ensemble, Arthur Haas, 
Director
Techniques of Music
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldwell 
Poundie Burstein 
Terry Champlin 
Robert Cuckson 
Leo Edwards 
Steven Freides 
David Gagne 
David Loeb 
Mei-Mei Meng 
William Needelman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Christopher Park 
Carl Schachter
Programs of study:
Bachelor of Music, 
Bachelor of Science,
Master of Music, Diploma,
Professional
Studies Certificate
Major studies:
All orchestral.instruments, 
piano, harpsichord, organ, 
voice and opera, guitar, 
composition, theory, 
conducting, historical 
performance instruments 
and voice.
Dormitory rooms.
Scholarships awarded/All majors
For additional information about the College, Application and Audition appointment: 
Write or call 
Marilyn Groves,
Director of Admissions, 
The Mannes College 
of Music,
150 West 85th Street,
New York, N.Y. 10024, 
800-292-3040 or 
212-580-0210.
New School for Social Research

i

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995
Pittsburgh Horizons extends students experience
By TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Pittsburgh Horizons is a program run 
out of Residence Life. It is designed to 
find great events going on in and around 
Pittsburgh, buy tickets, provide trans
portation, and give students the chance 
to get out and experience things they 
might not otherwise have a chance to 
do, said Brian Greenberg, coordinator 
of Residence Life and chair of Pitts
burgh Horizons.
The program has been around for sev
eral years. Last weekend, they orga
nized a trip to the U2 laser light show, 
which attracted many students.Earlier 
this year, Pittsburgh Horizons provided 
tickets and transportation to the Live 
concert. Greenberg said, It was a huge 
success; people were camping out in front 
of Morewood the night before the tickets 
went on sale. Two weeks ago, we did a 
trip to the Holocaust museum in Wash
ington, D.C. It was a moving and power
ful experience for many of the students.
Pittsburgh Horizons is able to provide 
discounts to students because of Univer
sity funding and their buying strategy. 
The group purchases a large bulk of 
tickets to certain upcoming events and 
proviHes transportation for students.
A lot of the activities in Pittsburgh are. 
quite a distance from campus. For this 
reason, many students appreciate the 
fact that Pittsburgh Horizons helps them 
get around and see Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh Horizons is run by the resi
dence assistants. Greenberg said In 
the beginning of the year, everyone who 
is on the committee sits down, we look at 
years past, we look at what has been 
very successful, and we look at activities 
that are new. Its very democratic. We 
vote. We want to provide a wide range of 
activities.
Tanya 
Bhothinard, a 
junior biology 
and IM major, 
is one of the 
RAs who sits 
on the Pitts
burgh Hori
zons commit
tee. She said,
I signed up 
for this [Pitts
burgh Hori
zons] commit
tee because I 
dont think 
that students ' 
are given a lot 
of opportuni
ties to see 
Pittsburgh.
Theres just so 
much to do 
and see in Pittsburgh. Everything is not 
in the same area like in New York. 
Pittsburgh Horizons gives students the 
chance to see all that Pittsburgh has to 
offer.
Bryon Krug, a sophomore ECE and
Pittsburgh Horizons. Krug said, Pitts
burgh Horizons is an awesome opportu
nity for CMU students. Last year, as a 
freshman, I didnt know about all of the 
things you could do in Pittsburgh. Pitts
burgh Horizons helps students get off 
campus and see Pittsburgh.
Greenberg said, Students can recomr I TT S p
Francine Gemperle/Art Co-Editor
Its been such a huge success and I hope 
we can get more funding and have more 
programs next year.
Greenberg also hopes students will 
keep their eyes open for opportunities. 
A lot of times, all of the events that 
come to Pittsburgh and pass through 
Pittsburgh go unnoticed by students.
Pittsburgh 
does get a ton of 
really exciting 
activities, its a 
huge venue. A 
lot of big acts 
come here, in
cluding rock 
concerts, the
ater, every
thing. Were 
trying to do 
whatever we 
can to make 
these accessible 
to students. 
Were open to 
suggestions. If 
youre inter
ested, act 
quickly because 
tickets go very 
fast, she said.
mend activities now for next year. We 
always have a little bit of supplemental 
budget left over in case something comes 
up or a student comes up with a brilliant 
idea.Greenberg hopes that the program 
grows larger each year. Weve had 
EPPniajor, isanother RA involved with more programs this year than any other.
Tickets are sold by Residence Life. The 
RAs usually hang posters in front of 
Doherty, Morewood, and on residence 
floors. Or, you can call Residence Life at 
x8-2142 and ask about upcoming events. 
Any Carnegie Mellon undergraduate can 
participate.
Upcoming Pittsburgh 
Horizons Events: (Dates may change)
November 17  Light Up 
Night in Downtown Pittsburgh 
(fireworks, food, entertainment, 
unique department stores displays.
December 1  An opportunity 
for 20 students to see the filming of 
the television program, Mr. 
Rogers Neighborhood.
December 9  Trip to see a 
Pittsburgh Penguins hockey game.
January 26  Excursion to see 
Sweeney Todd, with music and lyr
ics by Steven Sondheim at the Pitts
burgh Public Theater.
February 17 Trip to the Andy 
Warhol Museum.
March 8  Opportunity to hear 
the Pittsburgh Symphony  John 
Williams, composer of Star Wars 
theme.
Other possibilities for this year 
or next year are a camping trip, 
visit to the Rock N Roll Hall of 
Fame, and Niagara Falls, Canada.
Student bands provide variety of musical experiences for campus community
BANDS, from page LL 
form on November 29 on WYEP 91.3 
FM. They will be playing the lunch time 
showcase as well as be interviewed.
Many feel that student bands need 
more exposure. Jared Moskowitz, a 
freshman music/music composition ma
jor, believes that there is never too much 
live music.
He said, I think that people or groups
should be booked in places like Scotland 
Yard more often, and that we should 
have more on-campus concerts. 
Moskowitz is a member of the concert 
choir and is currently working with Ken 
Flagg to begin an all-male acappella 
group at CMU. He believes that live 
music is a predominant force in truly 
understanding what an artist has to 
say.
He said, Live music offers the oppor
tunity to interpret, to see how musicians 
feel the music, to see how a conductor 
moves to the music.Watching a group 
perform is like watching art in motion. 
Artz feels that attending performances 
enhances an individuals appreciation 
of the art form. He said, Because theres 
so much energy on stage, if you come to 
a Yard Dogs show you cant help but
want to dance or be happy or kiss your 
girlfriend. I know because Ive seen it. 
But I really think that you cant take my 
word for it, you should just come and see 
it. Even if you know nothing about jazz, 
you should come.
As shown by the time and energy that 
each musician must put into her or his 
work, each of these students love what 
they do. Artz said, I really enjoy the
music. For me, its really an emotional 
release. I like more improvisational jazz 
as opposed to rock and classical music. If 
you listen to a jazz musician, you can tell 
if hes had a good or bad night. Its never 
the same. I just put everything I have 
into my music. Because society want us 
to hold everything in, Id be a totally 
different person without this outlet, he 
said.
Take a look onMonday, November 13,1995 
in room210at the Student Center  7:00pm. 
The outlook will be anything but typical 
Information Sed/ion 
hod ted by Carnegie Group, Inc.
You '11 dee what thefuture could he Like with an innovative leader in doftware 
development. Learn what Carnegie Group offerdad acompany. 
Dif cover the typed of untypicalprojectd and challenged you can encounter.
f J
Electrical and Computer EngineeringMathematics/Computer ScienceCognitive Science
Computer ScienceTechnical Writing
Ifyouareinteredted, hut tumble to attend, dene) your red unie to.
Carnegie Group, Inc.
5 PPG Place 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
E-mail: resumes@cgi.com 
412-642-6900 
FAX:412-642-6906
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995L5
Vess Book of Ballads and Sagas attracts comic book buffs
/
A.
The Comic Book 
Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
There are a few things you can count 
on in life: taxes, clusters being filled 
when you need a computer most, and 
Jeffs Pick of the Week at Phantom of 
the Attic being a great read. Charles 
Vess Book of Ballads and Sagas is not 
an exception. Of course, I would have 
picked this book up no matter who rec
ommended it; Vess has been one of my 
favorite artists since I saw his cover to 
Web of Spider-Man #1.
This is Vess first foray into the world
of self-publishing with his Green Man 
Press, and hopefully it wont be his last. 
This book took me completely by 
surprise.since he quit doing the covers 
for Vertigos Books of Magic. Since he 
quit doing the covers for Vertigos Books 
of Magic, I had no idea what Vess was 
working on, besides the final Sandman 
with Neil Gaimanl Once I saw the book, 
I knew Id buy it even though I was a 
little concerned bebause Ive never seen 
Vesss black and white work. I think 
Charles Vess3 Book of Night is in black 
and white, but I havent been able to 
find it yet. My concerns were unfounded 
because Vess art is still beautiful uncol
ored. You get to see the details of his art 
clearer than if it were painted, and you 
get to see him using other mediums like 
chalk.
Vess doesnt venture into these un
charted waters alone; he brings Sharyn 
McCrumb, Neil Gaiman, and Rob Walton 
along with him to script the three stories 
in this first issue. Future issues will
have other notable comic and fantasy 
writers like Jeff Smith and Emma Bull.
Perhaps the best thing about this book 
is that it gives us a little more informa
tion about the artist than most books do. 
In his introduction Vess says, They are 
pages filled with the id
iosyncratic personali! f 
ties of the artist and 1 '7^ 
writers involved.
Rather than just pre
senting the readers 
with a detached story,
Vess and company 
share their love of 
myths and folk music 
that inspired these 
tales. Thankfully, Vess 
has good taste in music 
because it would be a 
real waste of his talents to bring Motley 
Crues Girls, Girls, Girls to the printed 
page.
Of the three stories in this issue, The 
False Knight on the Road is my favorite
by a hair. This is Vess and Gaimans 
finest collaboration since the Books of 
Magic limited series. It was interesting 
to see Vess adopting a more realistic 
style for this story, which is more real
itybased than the other two. This tale 
has the same youth
ful charm as Books of 
Magic. The other two 
tales, Thomas the 
Rhymer, and 
Skade are also 
great pieces. Skade 
moves a little slower 
than the other two be
cause rather than 
being a self-con
tained story, this one
_______________ continues in the next
 Green Man Press issue. My only com
plaint with this one, and really the whole 
book, is that I dont think piss off is 
something that a squirrel would be say
ing in a mythological setting. I guess 
hes a British squirrel.
This entire book is a masterpiece, from 
the three beautifully-illustrated and 
tightly written tales, to the little extras 
that Vess includes to make it a total 
package. For example, he includes an 
article on the origin of ballads and folk 
music that gives some great background 
information for this book. Rather than 
using the traditional comic style letter
ing, he uses letters that look like they 
could be from a manuscript that a monk 
labored over for ages. As always, you can 
trust Jeff at Phantom, so buy this book. 
Then, maybe the Book of Ballads and 
Sagas will be more than just a six-issue 
limited series. If youre also a big Vess 
fan like myself, you definitely want to 
check out the FPG 90-card Charles Vess 
trading card set. The set includes some 
great unpublished work and has more 
information from Vess on the backs of 
the cards. .
Jason Andracki is a junior professional 
writing major.
Games engage players
Friday Night DOOM
by Dizzy B. Murphy
Heya folks! Friday Night 
DOOM is back with a vengeance. 
After weeks out of action, we are 
back to bring you reviews of two 
cool games: Mechwarrior 2 and 
Crusader. Mechwarrior 2, which 
you may have seen in the Cyert 
cluster, is based on a bunch of 
ravaged planets where people get 
on big robots and go around kill
ing each other just for fun. Of 
course, the action takes place in 
the year 3050. You are part of a 
clan bent on taking over Earth 
and destroying the opposing en
emy clan forces.
You start out as a rookie, blow
ing up small factories with me
dium mechs. As you progress 
through the game, the missions 
get tougher. ... Luckily you may 
get other mechs to come along 
and help you out on a mission. 
You also get bigger mechs as the 
mission difficulty increases.
The graphics and sound are top 
notch. However, depending on the 
speed of your machine, the high
est graphic setting will give you a 
lot of choppiness. The controls 
are simple to learn, and the more 
time you spend on it, the more 
ways you may find to pilot your 
Battlemech in more efficient 
ways.
Overall, if you are a fan of 
the board game, buy this game 
at all costs! If you have never 
heard of Battletech (shame on 
you!) you should expect a lot of 
tactics and strategy to go along 
with this action game.
Now, let us jump to a new 
acquisition to my computer 
game library: Crusader. This 
is a perfect game for students 
who need to liberate stress. 
The story line is simple. In the 
future, Earth is ruled by a cor
rupt government. You are one 
of the elite guards of that gov
ernment. The president de
cides to waste you because you 
know too much, and you join 
the resistance, which fights 
your former employers.
This game is too much fun! 
The setup is as simple as 
DOOM. You get some armor 
and some weapons and are let 
loose on a compound. Your mis
sion: kill everything in sight\ 
This game actually encourages 
violence! You may even shoot 
innocent scientists for money 
to get better weapons!The 
graphics and music simply can
not be better. You rock arj.d roll 
to a techno beat on a maze-like 
level with an angled view 
where you can see everything 
that goes on around your char
acter. You also may get some 
live action scenes depending 
on the part of the level you are 
at, increasing the fun factor 
majorly. This is a must buy 
game for any type of action 
buff.
Dizzy Murphy is a senior 
SDS major.
Are You Prepared?
CPA/CMA/GRE/GMAT Review
The Robert Morris College School of Continuing 
Education can help you prepare for the May 1996 
Certified Public Accountant (CPA) Exam, June 1996, 
Certified Management Accountant (CMA) Exam, 
April 1996 Graduate Record Enrollment (GRE) Test 
and January, March and June 1996 Graduate 
Management Admission Test (GMAT). Enroll now 
for review and coaching courses from the area's 
premier results-oriented program.
CPA Exam Review and Coaching Course 
Classes begin: Dec. 4 Pittsburgh Center 
Dec. 9 Moon Township Campus
CMA Exam Review and Coaching Course 
Classes begin: Mar. 9 Pittsburgh Center
GRE Review and Preparation Program
Classes begin: Mar. 7 Moon Township Campus 
Mar. 12 Pittsburgh Center
GMAT Exam Review and Coaching Course 
Classes begin: Dec. 13 Pittsburgh Center 
Feb. 14 Moon Township Campus 
May 6 Pittsburgh Center
aLgAyS RLyytZCOLI  C E
For more information or to enroll, call the 
School of Continuing Education at (412) 227-6813
Author Robert Devereaux explores horror genre
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
What would you expect from a 
writer who credits Shakespeare, 
Milton, and John Irving as influ
ences? Novels that explore the 
human condition? Stories that 
move the soul? Robert 
Devereauxs stories include these 
themes, and yet he writes in the 
same genre as Stephen King. 
Obviously, he is not your typical 
horror writer.
Robert Devereaux was born in 
Long Island in 1947. He began 
writing after a fourth grade 
teacher read the story 
The Monkeys Paw to 
the class. So I wrote him 
a story, Devereaux said.
He was also a fan of the 
Wolfman, Mummy, 
Dracula, and Franken
stein movies as a child.
They amount to a semi_____
nal influence on his writm 
ing today.
He eventually went to the Uni
versity of Iowa and spent eight 
years there getting his doctorate 
in English.
Robert now considers himself 
an honorary citizen of Iowa City 
after spending a large chunk of 
his time there.
While working on his PhD the
sis, he outlined an as-yet-unpublished novel, called Oedipus 
Aroused. In his opinion, it is not 
one of his best works.
The characters drag a marvel
ous plot around, for no apparent 
motivation. I didnt yet know how 
to write a novel, Devereaux said.
Now, there is no doubt about 
his skill as a novelist. His first 
novel, Deadweight, published in 
1994 by Dell, was nominated for 
one of the horror genres most 
prestigious awards, the Bram 
Stoker Award.
In his own words Devereaux 
says, Deadweight is about over
coming ones past victimization. 
A woman, with more power over 
life than she realizes, acciden
tally revives her dead abusive 
husband. He cuts a swath of blood
someone into violence might be 
lurking. Films scare him too. 
His favorite scary films include 
Aliens, Evil Dead I & II, Jaws, 
Poltergeist, the classic The Thing, 
Carrie, and The Shining.
Like many writers, he would 
love to have any of his stories 
made into a movie. Deadweight 
definitely, to have my say about 
the victim mentality. [The short 
story] Bucky Goes to Church, 
done by Terry Gilliam. Ridi Bobo 
too, as a silent movie, he said.
Devereaux is a voracious 
reader, often reading a dozen 
books at once. His favorite is The
The characters [in Oedipus Aroused], drag 
around a marvelous plot for no apparent rea
son. I didnt yet know how to write a novel.
 Robert Devereaux, author
toward her. Shes got to fight him, 
discover her inner strength, and 
save her second marriage. Its a 
cross between a traditional 
[Stephen] King plot and a 
splatterpunk treatment, with a 
rough lyricism not often found in 
genre fiction. Its a study in de
pravity.
When it comes to scares, even 
Devereaux is not immune. The 
things that scare him are sud
den ill health. Being in an unsafe 
physical location, one where
Brothers Karamazov by 
Dostoevsky. At present he is read
ing a slew of books, including 
Smolletts Humphrey Clinker, 
Goldings Lord of the Flies, 
Koontzs Dark Rivers of the Heart, 
the meditations ofKrishnamurti,
and C. S. Lewiss Four Loves along 
with four others.
In July, he has another novel, 
called Walking Wounded being 
published by Dell. This novel in
volves secrets and the doing of 
bad things by a good person and 
how she agonizes over doing the 
bad things, but continues to do 
them anyway. Energy vortexes 
(magic power places in the earth) 
supply the supernatural ele
ment.
Currently, he is working on a 
large fantasy novel, entitled Die 
Meisterschtupper von Allesberg. 
This work differs greatly from 
his others, mostly be
cause of the fact that 
it is not horror.
Roberts biggest in
fluence in this work is 
Dostoyevsky. He bril
liantly reveals char
acters through dia
logue. Im hoping to 
maaaaaBfl d the same.
To all you aspiring 
writers out there, Devereaux says 
two things:
(1) Stop! Give up!
(2) If you cant be dissuaded, 
persist. Be humble. Grow your 
craft all your life. Start sending 
your stuff out. Ignore rejection.
S CHALLENGE TEAMS
NOW*youire
gtQu care aiMAlbs.
<lo jou care jou
tokt t {fiVjhjf ff fe?
that jo don't haw HlV. 
jo tnijht accidentally Maet 
a fri and. or  top.
Make sur8 tMt don't.
aw"**' 
H
Sf11 l-loo 
'^Oo
acceptedChallenge,we want to mf Sil VuGOODI
LUCK 
See you in Texas.
For more information, please mail requests to: EDS Campus Relations, 5400 Legacy Dr., H4-GB-35, Plano, Tx 75024, or visit our homepage at http^/www. eds.com.
EDS is tot equal opportunity employer, m/f/d/a EDS is a rcisleral mart qf Electronic Data .Syxfenu Corporation.
MEDIMETRIX*
For a career in Management Consulting
Medimetrix Group, one of the leading and largest independent 
healthcare management consulting firms in the country, Is seeking 
several new college graduates to take the position of Analyst within 
our consulting division.
A career at Medimetrix is one that will provide sustained 
intellectual challenge, development of valuable business skills, and 
opportunity to work directly with senior management.
We will be conducting an information session for 
all interested juniors and seniors this Thursday. 
November 9th from 7:00pm - 8:00pm in room 218 
in the Student Center.
We will be interviewing on-campus December 
7th.
To be considered for our interview schedule, please 
submit your resume to the Career Center by 
Thursday, November 16.

---------------------------------------------------

* KHHKHfcr* gIU 1AUtiZ SL
FANGED TERROR, COME \N-'
DO SOU READ ME? OVER/
^KMKKHHM r
I'LL BET \ SCW DoNT SEE THAT GETS eu KEEPING OLD REAL / A SUMMER 
FA'ST. // HOME.
TWICE. A SEAR THEM MIGRATE THOUSANDS Of MILES ACRES 
THE CONTINENT IN AM EXHAUSTING, ETERNAL 
STRUGGLE TO RJLHLL / NATURES UNS\ELDlNG / ^ DEMANDS / __y
LOOK.' GEESE FLSING SOUTH 
FOR TUE WINTER.. ac
ILL TAKE TUE X 
WALKIE-TALKIEYOi/ TAVCE THE. / TEST. -wA
IXSAS INUSMAS COREAS o 
URKXHAS/
WHS Dont i have a bunch Cf FRIENDS WITH NOTHING TO 00 BUT DROP BS AND 
INSTIGATE WACKS __ ADVENTURES? y
WHS ARENT MS CONVERSATIONS 
PEPPERED WITH SPONTANEOUS w\ttk\sms? vD dont ms 
FRIENDS DEMONSTRATE. 
HEARTFELT CWCERN FOR 
MS WELL-BEING WHEN I 
HAVE PROBLEMS?
WHS DONT \ I GOTTA XOJ KNOW AUS GET MS GORGEOUS BABES7/ UFE SCME 
WRITERS.
WHS ISN'T MS LIFE LIKE. 
THIS SITUATION CSMEDS :I'M SET ANOTHER RESOJeCE-CoNSUMtNG KID IN AN OVERPOPULATED PLANET, 
RA\SED TO AN ALARMING EXTENT BS MADISON AVENUE AND HOLLSWOOD. POISED 
WITH M'i CMICAL AND ALIENATED PEERS TO TAKE OVER THE WORLD 
MEN SOJ'RE OLD AND WEAKo
WHERE'S SOUR COSTUME? WHAT 
ARE SOU SUPPOSED 
TO BE?  ^
AM I SCARS. OR WUAT ?TRICK OR TREAT!
THANK HEAVEN FOR SMALL 
FAVORS.
KNOW WHAT'S WEIRD7 DAS 
B. DAS NOTHING SEEMS TO CHANGE, BUT PRETTY 
SCON. EVERSTHING_d .
IS AFFERENT.
SOU JUST GO ABOUT VOJR BUSINESS AND ONE DAS SOU REALITE SCl'RE NOT THE 
SAME PERSON S USED TO
gA wALwFA IilU1A TAUAy 
EPNH NkN E3 3a 73E,u
FOR EXAMPLE.  USED TO BE MORE TOLERANT OF OBLIQUE ASPERSIONS.
I CANT HELP BUT WONDER WHAT KIND OF 
DESPERATE STRAITS WCWID 
DRVME A MAN TO INVENT 
___THIS THING. ____
WHIFF>^ATFP\fF
Foof
Rnf hrmm AlAd rtsw bpFY sAlO UunUmu sn HumAuau Rnftu ERAlOw -.rsAlOnUp .red -utu Rnf -AlgAlOw
Rnf erR lns He Alrhner.J.Jc. Hfs RnftudAhgc rmm "'s tAO.so
I srgAlOs.1p 1<J5UHfs As -rd rl r-ifm s.AlO sn En sn Rnf fAs.nfs summAlO Rnf. A duu s.rs ln-. Ad-urt A'mm ergu 
v nfUsnRnf.
eAguc As -rd I Jfds dfUUnduE] sn Hu r HurfsAifmc fssmu .Ae rHnfs r hner&tmY rdnfs.nfJ UunUmu turhs sn .utY. I
I uXUmrAlw J.J...nhnfmE Rnf UnddAHmR uXUmrAl...
dAhgo Un
YOU HEAR. beitpr I MB? SICK, m-MENpAhgc s10ls.u 
dAhg( eAlAYhre...
A gluAso A glus.Ad erd r Uutinterlhuo c
NO, NO, 1 I WANT TO. SAY YOU'LL COME TO THE OPENING NI6HTPARTY.
eAh.rum... Umurdu... DD 1ds eu uXUmrAlo
Umurdu.Unls
lncRnfEAUls.
ln erRc erlo Ai s.Ad erd nlu ni .ut mnnluR sflu rts dsAlsdc Unls Rnf s.Alg 
1'UHu rHmu sn summw d.ud Alr hnerc erlc stfds euo sU dsrgu eR fiH nl Aso
f1.rs rtu ^^hiUDY Rnf srmgAlO rHnfsc erlw
LOOK AT HER I
fdw rmm A EAU Aed sftlnls.u hreutro J
A s.nfO.s A.Jrd ergAlO dneus.AlO stfs.ifm r UAuhu rHnfs UunUmu hrfO.s Al s.u rhs ni uXUtuddAlO s.uAt j-k 
RE,'1. FEELINGS! ''M
AglnfJ.rs Rnf tu s.AlgAlOs.rs A .rd HuAlO dumUY AlanmauU rlE OtrlEAnducs.rs rmm A hrtuE rHnfs -utu eR n-l luuEd. dfs A anrOtuuY
Rnf.urtU euYd.ud irgJld Aso
intOusrr.suguY.uod0lsnfd.
eAguc se dnttR A .fts Rnf. . 
-rdlF dfUUnduEc sn sftl nfs i<t s.rsfJrR... y~3
-.rswI ms JUST] BEING ME. THE UJAY j \IAM.J
UnAlO f.rs] ergud eu . flAQfu. / ^ dUuhArm.y.rau r lAhu fiHc Rnf s-n.
^p.HdiAlH. a 
tu/rd f1rdlspHtJ0fp. OnnE -u'mmdHlE .ut 
eOnmE. rhrtUsnentY 
. .n-d t0eYD mom--
int s.u irds iuenls.dc A'au Huul s.AlgAlO ss-rd 
AeUnddAHmu int Rnfs-nsn dAlg rlR mn-ut. 1 duu lnJfds .n-tnlO A -rdo
RnfJutgY -uOns 
UAdduUo rlE Rnf v Jfds 
dsnnU 1 s.utuo.
Amm drR nlu hf.rJds.AlO it s.rscT| Rnfc 2ugu... erlw
YOUR MOTHERS]
\ I SuGEtHEART. j 
fT.UIASNTJ V SHE SETS f 
I 5HB? r \ CONFUSED. L
rUnmnORrhhuUsHUc/.nl.
-rAs...  -.rs -rd j
thatagainAASSer
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
HEADQUARTERSOONi'T fAOST
DOUBLE!- THE.Y L0I5H
AGENTS GET IT CO A 5 
CAPTURED IMMEDIATE.
AND EXECUTED I 
IMMEDIATELY? V T'1
ALL OF /AY BAD DECISIONS 
ARE CATCHING UP TO 
COULD WE DO ANOTHER 
REORG TO COVER fAY J 
TRACKS? / YEAH, IVE 
Vf GOT SOfAE 
\l BODIES TO 
i5y  BURY,TOO.
I HEARD YOU GOT 
ASSIGNED ON A 
"DOTTED LINE" TO 
OUR BOSS' ARCHRIVAL.
LOOK ON THE BRIGHT SIDE. 
THINK OF YOURSELF AS 
LEADING THE EXCITING 
LIFE OF A SECRET 
DOUBLE-AGENT!
"...THESE CHANGES CJILLJ 
ALLOCJ US TO FOCUS 
ON OUR CORE 
BUSINESS.'1 J WHOA! LET 
' yl fAL GET MY
f pr REORG
in* BOOTS.
HEY, CHUCK'S LOOKING 
UNHAPPY TODAY. WHAT'5 
THE PROBLEM, BIG GUY?
THE "DOGBERT CORPORATE 
ART SOURCE" 03ILL 
PROVIDE LOCO-COST 
PAINTINGS FOR 
YOUR COALLS.
OUR MOTTO 15 "IF 
IT'S IN A FRAME. 
IT 10ILL LOOK LIKE 
ART TO YOU."
WALLY, COHEN A CAR \ 
GETS A FLAT TIRE, WHATj
DO YOU DO? J-----------------
"~1 WELL IF in YOU,
I ROTATE THE TIRES 
I AND DRIVE HOME.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND 
HOOO THE NECJ REORGAN
IZATION DILL HELP 
US FOCUS ON OUR CORE 
BUSINESS."
HOCJ MUCH DO THE 
PAINTINGS COST?
DID OUR CORE 
BUSINESS CHANGE? 
OR ARE YOU SAYING 
THAT EVERY REORG 
PRIOR TO THIS OJAS 
A MISDIRECTED 
. FAILURE?
SIK DOLLARS 
A POUND.
GUESS UHAT, 
6JALLY.
CJE'RE GIVING YOU 
A REAL BOSS PLUS A 
"DOTTED LINE" TO 
ANOTHER BOSS COHO 
HAS DIFFERENT 
OBJECTIVES.
HOW DID YOU GET THE 
CONTRACT TO SUPPLY 
OUR COMPANY WITH 
CUALL APT? I
THE STATUS REPORTS 
ALONE COILL TAKE 
FORTY HOURS A
OJEEK. r----------------------, I'M GONNA
STAPLE MYSELF 
| I TO DEATH.
AS COE SPEAK, AY 
ASSISTANT 15 SCOURING 
THE EARTH IN SEARCH 
OF LOU-COST ,   ,
lyS, iaj
COHAT SADISTIC 
PLOT HAS H.R. 
COME UP WITH 
MOW, CATBERT?
I'LL TAKEI

---------------------------------------------------

HECTOR
|ft-lECTOR:
 A SON OF lNi 
I PRIAM.THE 
v: CROWN PRtHCE 
v; OP TWJY.
SINCE I AM 
THE BEST 
WARRIOR IN ALL 
OF TROY, I'LL 
OFFER YOU A 
6CLPEN COP 
IF YOO WIN.., .
... \T IS 
WORTH AN 
ENTIRE HERO 
OF CATTLE.
... LOOK, PRINCE 
HECTOR 1, GOING 
TO FlfciHT HE XT'
HEADY.PERHAPS,HMM... DON'T 
THEY LOOK ALIKE
...YES, THEY 
DO A LITTLE 6 IT.
7 ...WHAT DO YOL) 
THINK, CASANDRA
ITo BE omilSUEP.
THANK YOU 
VERY MUCH, SIR. 
BUT | DON'T 
WANT YOUR. GOLD, 
I JOST WANT 
MY CONN 
BACK.
YOU'RE A 
MODEST 
HAN.
GE-Ti Xc 
RMOEVER/yl^R.
<3(sT7oNNAvREgAMAT-Q-V\S'Oh)
J^lop at6HT IWte/ 2-
^______ f ONE STTTp OOiER M> I'LL
PRoP YOUR FRIENDS triTb 
THE SEA/ J---------V
... MY LOHf 
LDST5R0W.
~pfhejnexfV day f
~ Mwr GE Thes.
SECRET HlPEoup-r .
SeUs!hU FoR-yixJ
ATfcUE CuCHF AKD 
ACuFFH/WfiFg. Nt>\M6

---------------------------------------------------

cPIrSOPlr OSSOSSSc
EPISODE 8 DANIEL YAUOER
COS JESUS HE KNOWS ME 
AND HE KNOWS I'fl RIGHT 
I'VE BEEN TALKING TO JESUS ML HYLIFE 
-GENESIS,"JESUS HE KNOWS ME"
IM wrtic^ "ntt wfJiodJ MtJ 4 byA ff^ies-r ip-^avt
VH* "Bit. chees>E\,,
Mft. M/VVofl.7. THEP-t's TVO 
HGJLfc To see How.UUHft'V. It's. MOT me Ftotftftu 
/|uOn>ftS, IS IT? |'n\
2jLS fcFAOV Her.1
^ C^vtfVy P. Tba^As
t\{L. M/Wo.( A-R.E Vo'-f -THAT
UTY WAA/H T& B4/<-D ADOC-p2^cc AuP A CAS1W0 o|J 
-fue cu> mill P(ZoPtQ--ri?.
iTd mZetht ws 
chwse -lLelF 
stCJV/jT^j oTL 
u>E A-uLe^Dy
Those".,

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 9DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Strippers inspire conflict in 
different viewing parties
Private parties hire strippers for cheap thrills
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Hiring a stripper is kind of like masturbation: many people do it, 
jut few want to talk about it.
Even some ofthe people who strip for a livingtend to be a bit careful 
ibout how they discuss their vocation. One female stripper with 
whom I spoke opened up to me only after I promised to offer her some 
anonymity. For the purposes of this article, she will be known as Jo. 
I Jo works in downtown Pittsburgh at Live Nudes on Liberty 
Avenue, but previously worked for a strip-o-gram company in Dejroit, Michigan. Jo wishes to remain anonymous because, as she 
said, My mother lives around
The money is good. I Vs great, actually, 
considering that no ones allowed to 
touch me. I can do my own thing more or 
less, and I can study between shows,
 anonymous stripper
[here, and she doesnt know what 
I do for a living. Id like to keep it 
that way.
This led to the obvious ques
tion: why do it?
For Jo, its simple. The money 
is good. Its great, actually, conlidering that no ones allowed to 
;ouqh me. I can do my own thing
bore or less, and I can study ___________________________
between shows, she said. Jo uses t
,he money she makes as a stripease artist to pay for class credits at a local college.
She admits, however, that the money she made doing strip-o[rams was considerably better. I had to put up with more crap doing 
jirthdaygrams, but the tips were way better. Fifty dollar tips were 
not unusual at her old job, Jo said.
Concerning exactly what kinds of unpleasant things she had to 
face, she said, At Live Nudes, Im behind the glass.
When youre working parties, though, you expect that youre going 
o get touched. Only, sometimes Id get some drunken asshole who 
hought he had the right to do anything just because I take off my 
ilothes.
that for all of their female employees.
So, who hires strippers, you ask? Jo said, Back in 
the day, [as a party-gram stripper] I worked tons of 
bachelor parties and birthdays. One male stripper, who goes 
by Keith, said, I get hired for birthdays, sorority parties, the 
occasional bachelorette party... you know.
Indeed, parties  especially those where there are likely to be a 
high concentration of one gender  are popular environments for 
striptease viewing. I admit it, my roommates and I considered it for 
the birthday of one of our other apartmentmates. It has the potential 
to be a really good time because you cant possibly take it seriously. 
An alumnus and friend of mine had a stripper called in for his
birthday party one year. It 
was a mixed crowd. He 
seemed embarrassed. 
Enough said.
As for other kinds of par
ties, well, I called and asked 
some of the sororities on 
campus. An anonymous 
source from one organiza
tion admitted that she and 
her sisters had hired male 
strippers for private par
ties and had gone out to
clubs. Having strippers brought in was done mostly as pledge 
pranks, the source said.
They would have a man dressed as a police officer come to the 
house pretending to bust a party, and then he would strip when the 
sisters let him in.
My source said that she hadnt gone when her house went out to a 
strip club during her freshman year.
She said, I dont like [the strippers]. Theyre overbuilt  not my 
type at all.
The same source who had been so open about her sorority gave me 
some information about the fraternities as well. She said that she 
But exotic dancers have a way of letting their audience know who knew for sure of at least two houses who had brought in strippers for
s in control. Most of the people I talked to who have stripped for a 
iving say that bad situations are fairly rare.
Even with Jo, her one and only truly frightening job ended when 
he kicked the client in the face with a spiked heel and then called 
rin the guard that her agency sent to stand outside the door. They do
closed parties.
We [women] arent allowed in on nights when theyve hired a 
stripper, she said.
Not surprising, since the men arent allowed to attend sorority 
strip-nights either. Its only fair.
6 November 1995
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Co Art-Editor
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
There is nothing wrong with the hu
man form: I like carefully composed art 
and tastefully done erotica. I like 
Rembrants portly nudes and Hefners 
little buddies. I like 
to see human bodies.
However, the fare I 
was asked to review 
was just a little more 
than I wanted to take 
a gander at. With a 
friend, I set off to see 
the soft, pink under
belly of Pittsburgh 
night-life.
The adventure started at the Cricket 
on Morewood Avenue, just past Centre. 
This bar featured exotic dancers, wh
ich boiled down to women in bikinis 
showing off their lower hemisphere and 
bobbing up and down so their two north
ern countries, the USA and Canada, 
could be plainly seen drawing up peace 
accords and rubbing against each other.
Now, youll note I said all of these 
women were wearing bikinis: that is one 
thing you will find in Pittsburghs ex
otic dancer scene: all of the women 
must be covered.
They can gyrate and look vapid as 
much as they want, but nothing taboo 
may be shown while alchohol is being 
sold. For better or worse, that is the
stark reality. I will not comment on the 
women we saw. I was not impressed. 
However, I will comment on the 
clientele.Those who go to the Cricket are 
older men with haunted expressions. 
This pretty much put me off, right there. 
Then I was carded and kicked out.
We then went to Anthonys, on Baum 
Boulevard. Here we saw an empty stage, 
lasers, a lot of empty chairs, and men 
waiting around a bar for, we assumed, 
women. It looked like more of the same 
tasty fare. I was carded and kicked out.
We went looking for a place on Liberty 
Avenue called Live Nudes! XXX!, but it 
was gone. Instead, we found a place 
called Golden Triangle Books and Maga
zines. Here, we hit the jackpot.
For $3, we were allowed to go through 
a turnstile and go into little booths.
In these booths were television screens 
and a selector. If you put a token into the 
machine, a naughty movie would ap
pear for about five minutes. In retro
spect, I probably shouldnt have sat down.
In fact, I probably shouldnt have even 
touched the tokens or the selector butf 
ton. I left there morally drained, but was 
proud not to have been kicked out. This 
is not a place to take a date.
Finally, we went to Club Ed, where 
someone famous was going to get naked: 
It cost $10, and it was 
not necessarily some
thing we wanted to see 
after watching the movi 
about the nurse at the 
last place, so we went 
home.
At Club Ed, as well as 
at a few other places 
around Pittsburgh, you 
pay admission to see 
naked people. This admission also gets 
you free beer and pizza. This club, like 
the other two clubs and the book store* 
was peopled by males in various states 
.of inebriation and depression. That, my 
friends, is the long and the short of it>: 
strip bars are not for the squeamish. 
They are, however, nice if youre drunk.
Other bars we had the pleasure of not 
being able to frequent were the Hi-Way 
Playground, Climax I-III, and Fantasys; 
All of these require cars to get to, and. 
most are 40 or more miles out of th 
Oakland area. Most of these clubs fear 
ture the admission-and-freebeer policy^ 
so if youre old enough and have a pen
chant for nastiness, youve come to th 
right city. Good luck, muchachos.
Those who go to the Cricket are older 
men with haunted expressions. This 
pretty much put me off, right there. Then 
I was carded and kicked out.
Depravity of strip joints morally exhausts writer

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995
New Zealand band stays strong
By NEEL DONNELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
For over a decade, the Bats 
have been crafting under
stated, infectious pop songs 
. that have a quiet way of nest
ling themselves deep inside 
youjr head.
Who: The Bats 
What: Couchmaster 
Label: Mammoth Records
The New Zealanders 
. twelfth release, Couchmaster, 
is certainly no exception to 
this successful recipe. Evoking sounds similar to bands 
like the Sundays and the 
. Cocteau Twins, the Bats go 
onl^step further by stepping 
. down the importance of pro
duction, letting this delicate 
and emotional album speak 
for itself.
Couchmaster begins with 
Outside, an odd assortment 
of ambient noises that lasts 
only 52 seconds. The music 
kicks in with Afternoon in 
Bed, a lazy, pleasant tune 
highlighted by Kaye Wood
wards tonal guitar sty lings. 
Robert Scotts nearly-whis
pered voice creeps out from 
under layers of guitars and 
drums in Around You Like 
Snow. Work It Out is very 
. Smiths-influenced, from
Scotts wavering vocals to the 
spatial, roomy production and 
slide guitar. The band recorded 
passing trains outside of their 
studio, and these sounds com
prise Train, which merely 
serves as an introduction to Land 
O Lakes, a cut propelled by 
Malcolm Grants polite percus
sion and more of Woodward^ slide 
work.
Paul Keans driving bass .line 
and Grants drumming push 
Chain Home Low along, pro
viding a firm base for Scott to 
weave his vocal melodies. Su
pernova is not a cover of the Liz 
Phair tune, but rather a short, 
peaceful instrumental that paves, 
the way for the sparse Shoeshine, which features Wood
wards first recorded lead vocal.
She does an admirable job as 
well, evoking the calm mood that 
characterizes the Bats music. A 
slight buzzing guitar sound can 
be detected on Crow Song, but 
it in no way hinders the muted 
vocal melodies of Scott and 
Woodward.
The instrumental Smorgasboard comes on quickly and pow
erfully, but flees just as fast. 
Knowledge Is Power has Scott 
playing the Morrissey role again, 
but Grants propulsive beat keeps 
the song moving along at a fairly 
rapid pace. A barely audible key
board adequately accents Its 
Happening To You, but Lost
Weekend shows the Bats flex
ing their muscles a bit more, 
withWoodwards and Scotts 
almost-distorted guitars ac
cent ing this melancholy num
ber. The band nearly works 
itself up into a frenzy on For 
The Ride, which is the albums 
noisiest, angriest cut, ending 
with Grant bashing his drums 
to a pulp. Out Of Bounds 
returns the Bats to their familiar-but-expertly-traveled 
grounds of a simple guitar 
melody and light vocals.
Down To Me is the Bats at 
their poppiest: the minimal 
percussion of this cut allows 
Woodward and Scott plenty of 
room to intertwine their har
monious voices.
The Bats have once again 
proved themselves to be adept 
at creating enjoyable, affect
ing pop songs without resort
ing to sugary-sweet ballads or 
processed, unnatural instru
mentation.
The mere fact that the Bats 
are still together as a band 
after more than ten years 
shows that they must be doing 
something right.
Couchmaster is evidence 
that this band knows how to 
write great music. If this 
record is any indication, the 
Bats should be forming their 
pleasant pop for at least an
other decade.
New Pumpkins' CD fails to smash
ByB.W. ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
I know many of you dont 
want to hear this, but the new 
Smashing Pumpkins is not 
even worth the walk across the 
bridge.
Who: Smashing Pumpkins 
What: Mellon Collie and the 
Infinite Sadness 
Label: Virgin Records
Now that thats out of the 
'way, lets continue with the
 basics. Mellon Collie 
and the Infinite Sad
ness has been touted 
as the most antici
pated release of the 
summernow, you 
see, you. have to be 
' careful about hype....
First of all, this is a 
horribly grandiose 
two-CD package with 
equally bad inlay ma
terial.
Of the two booklets, 
one is a photo spread 
with the kind of pho' to copy art you prob
ably did twice as well 
in high school when 
you were casting the 
vice-principal in com
promising positions 
with the school 
mascot.The other is a
Overall, the production is 
rather unremarkable, and for an 
album theyve supposedly spent 
so much effort on, they have no 
excuse. There is so much experi
mentation going on here that it 
seems they forgot about actual 
songwriting. For instance, theres 
Cupid de Locke, a slow, pre
dominately acoustic tune which 
sounds exactly like seven others 
on the album! Sure, theyre 
pretty, but one wouldve been 
fine, and none of them even ap
proach the earlier Bye June or 
Glynnis. Im not even going to
 Virgin Records
The new Smashing Pumpkins CD has some memorable 
moments, but disappoints as a whole.
30-page handwritten lyric book touch We Only Come Out At
' with a smattering of cheesy 
 clip art. Oh, and did I mention 
that the lowest non-sale price 
you will probably find is about 
"$22.00?
> About the music: if youre 
looking for the moody creative 
abandon of their first albums, 
Gish and .Lull, or the epic pro
duction and bombast of Sia
mese Dream, theres none of it
 here.
Night, a piece so pointless that it 
boggles the mind. Still, there are 
some good clean songs  the 
upbeat 1979 and Tonight To
night are easily standouts, but 
Muzzle is the closest they come 
to recapturing the magic found 
on Pisces Iscariot's more somber 
moments.
Strangely, the best songs are 
the out and out thrashers. One of 
the producers, industrial remix
maven Flood, puts his distinct 
mark on the plodding, hyper
distorted Love and the down
right evil Tales of a Scorched 
Earth (great title). Ode to No 
One, reminiscent of Siameses 
Geek USA, competes with 
Bodies for the fastest the 
Pumpkins have ever played, 
while Jellybelly is an obvious 
continuation of the uptempo 
stuff from Siamese.
But still, the problem with 
redundancy persists. X.Y.U. 
is a little too close to the fourth 
track, Zero, with the excep
tion that it is a bit more 
subdued.
Hell, the first single 
Bullet with Butterfly 
Wings is redundant in 
and of itself. In fact, for 
a band known for its 
stellar lyrics, the 
singles Despite all the 
rage/ I am still just a 
rat in a cage chorus 
couldve been the 
cheesiest moment in 
this collection, if they 
hadnt actually had the 
creative block to use 
Youth is wasted on the 
young.
The only kind thing I 
can say about this is 
that they didnt rhyme 
fire and desire or use 
tears that fall like 
rain or some other 
Dokken-ism. Listen, I 
know what I say isnt going to 
affect their record sales. I mean, 
Im sure a decent amount of 
you reading this probably al
ready own it.
But for those of you who dont, 
if you feel you absolutely must 
own Mellon Collie and the Infi
nite Sadness, dub a mix off 
someone down the hall, or bet
ter yet, go rescue my copy from 
CD Trader.
SALIMS
Middle Eastern and Greek Food 
4705 Centre Avenue
621-8110
--------Eat in or take-out---------
gyros  falafil  salads baklava  spinach pies  and more
----------Groceries------tp
Feta Cheeses  Greek olives Pita Bread  Basmati Rice
; Party Trays, Catering, and Office Lunches are our Specialty! Call for Details. 
aotedc aDong Uittsburghs best takeYout places.
Pittsburgh Post Gazette Sunday, August 22,1993
Mystery men in black 
add intrigue to screen
File 13
by Carey Clevenger
Last year, I told you a little 
about the conspiracy  and how 
it has a knack of popping up in 
movies. But nothing could have 
prepared me for what happened 
next.
Since my initial column, the 
conspirators have been busy in
deed, and this is clearly the most 
apparent after careful surveil
lance of their most nefarious of 
operatives: the notorious Men in 
Black.
The History of the Men In 
Black
Given that the Men in Black (or 
MIB for short) are so shrouded in 
mystery, it is a choice opportu
nity when we can see even the 
briefest glimpse of them.
And when this glimpse of them 
is information about 
their mysterious ori
gin....
The best MIB biopic to 
date has to be Roswell, a 
made-for-cable docudrama about the infa
mous crash of a UFO 
near Roswell, New 
Mexico in the 1940s.
For those of you unfamiliar with 
the events, a pilot finds some 
goofy metal stuff out in the desert, 
tells everyone its UFO wreck
age, and then the military takes 
a picture of him holding a weather 
balloon, which they distribute to 
the press, and pass the whole 
thing off as an accident.
This in and of itself is not what 
makes this film quite so memo
rable. Neither is it Kyle (Agent 
Cooper of Twin Peaks) MacLachlan as the unwitting dupe 
(although that does help).
The best part is seeing the MIB 
in its earliest form: rude and ob
noxious MPs, who forcibly re
move unwanted spectators. 
Theres also a darkened board
room where several military ex
perts discuss forming a secret 
project team to deal with what 
they have found.
There you have it: PROOF! Go 
out and rent it today. Know well 
these agents of mayhem and de
ception.
Current activities
Although the MIB have been 
around for quite some time, it is 
very rarely you get to see them in 
top form. Fortunately, there is an 
exception: The Puppet Masters. 
Based on a Robert Heinlein story 
(and a predecessor to the Body 
Snatcher films),The Puppet Mas
ters follows the exploits of a team 
of Men In Black, headed up by 
none other than Donald 
Sutherland himself.
Some interesting additions to 
this MIB outfit: an exobiologist 
who is On loan from NASA (the 
first known occurrence of a 
Woman in Black), and the rebel
lious son of the leader of the outfit 
(who is basically a Man in Navy 
Blue).
The plot is about these alien 
things that attach themselves to 
your spinal cord and manipulate 
you like a marionette (hence the 
title). Or maybe they want you to 
think that the movie is named for 
the aliens'. Definitely something 
to think about.
But who cares? Clearly, the 
extraterrestrial menace is not 
nearly as cool as the terrestrial 
menace of the MIB. Your cover is 
blown.
... dont just leave this lying 
around anywhere... unless 
youve always wanted to 
visit area 51.
So what? Time to kick some 
ass!
And do they ever: whether with 
their fists, their feet, or their 
Glock sidearms, they lay down 
the law the way only they can. 
And Donald Sutherland makes a 
fitting MIB leader.
This one gets my recommenda
tion as the best MIB flick to date. 
In fact, I think the only thing that 
could improve upon this film is if 
you watch it on a black and white
like to call MIB Lite.
While the'MIB Lite have not 
foregone the classic sunglass^ 
often ignored by other film MIB 
(including those in The Puppft 
Masters), this is their only goojj 
mark.
Theyre all a bunch of mindless 
lackeys, taking orders from eij. 
eryone from Ghandi to j\fy 
Blonde. Most of them are either 
Men in Brown or Men in Bh$ 
and this just doesnt cut it.
And while they do have tho& 
nifty earphone thingies, no self, 
respecting MIB agent would dai^ 
to don one of those cheesy Amer 
can flag lapel pins. (Mystery aii 
guile are their primary weapon!. 
To make such an outright claiji 
of affiliation would be stupid;) 
The final deathblow to these inef
fective clones: look for the poor 
MIB stuck playing baby-sittqr 
after the train sequence.
Also, be wary of MIB-ish 
ernment organizations. Yes, Se
cret Service agents usually wear 
black suits and sunglasses, blit 
theyre usually protecting tH'e 
president or busting up counter
feiting rings, not protecting alienj 
and busting up nosy civilians.!;
If youre still confused, go otit 
and rent In the Line of 
Fire, and keep sayingfe 
yourself: John Malt 
ovich is not an alien: 
That should eliminate 
most of the confusion;
Also, while Quentij] 
Tarantinos gangsters
______ dress like the Men
MU Black, their activities 
are usually ... well 
related.
And although (according to.a 
reliable source) the Blues BrotEers fashion sense is heavily bor
rowed from the MIB, they too aft 
not involved in UFO cover-up:. 
At least, not to my knowledge 
anyway.
Well folks, that about wrapsiip 
this edition, andmaybe the whole 
column if this article gets into tfe 
wrong hands. Do yourself a favor.
television: maybe then it would and dont just leave this lyin;
look like that one outcast is wear
ing black like he should be. 
Theres at least reason to hope.
Accept NO Substitutes!
Alas. Just as there are Elvis 
impersonators, there are also 
those who attempt to imperson
ate the immortal Men in Black. 
Unfortunately, many of these 
cheap imitations are just that.
For example, lets look at Spe
cies, the summer blockbuster, and 
its special breed (ho ho): what I
around anywhere... unless youve 
always wanted to visit Area 51,i' 
course.
Carey Clevenger is a senior a\ 
ative writing major. That is djl 
the information he is willing ij 
divulge. They know enough of 
ready, and theyre just waiiini 
for a good excuse....Be careft 
folks, they may come for you nij 
Dont answer any questions, I 
sist the temptations. Be strong 
brave, be proud.
Worried about what you eat? 
Concerned about your body image? 
Exercising too much?
Lauren Lazar Stern, M.A.
Specialist in Eating Disorders 
Individual and Group Therapy
FREE CONSULTATION
311 South Craig Street 
Convenient to CMU 
Call 361-8040 for information
Are you interested in...
the relationship between science and religion? 
the compatibility of scientfic and religious accounts of our origins? 
the evidential value of miracles and events reported in scripture? 
the impact of cognitive science on free will and responsibility?
Then dont miss 80-265 Philosophy of Religion
An interdisciplinary course involving five faculty members from chemistry, materials 
science, philosophy, physics, and robotics together with special invited guest speakers. 
Enrollment limited to 30.
i

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  6 November 1995Lll
DH 2210
T"" ' i  ' * n i i i
movies you may have seen before..
By JOHN BIGGS
shursdayc loveDber 9
Casablanca
While this movie does not star Elvis, it is blackand-white. Now, if you havent seen this, I can 
pretty much say its about anything I want. Maybe 
its about an alien named Casablanca that eats 
peoples legs and lunches. Maybe it stars Brad 
Pitt in a romantic role. Maybe its a tear-jerker 
that is one of the famousest movies around.
Maybe there are big horses in it! Maybe its a 
boring Bergman film starring a tall French 
woman. Maybe it stars Humphrey Bogart as 
Chewbacca. Maybe theres a neat scene in the end 
when the lady takes off with or without the lonely 
expatriate. Who knows? See this one. Its impor
tant.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
iridayc loveDber 10
Judge Dredd
This movie stars Sylvester Look, Mom, no 
tongue Stallone. Its based on a comic book. If you 
like staying at home and pretending youre an 
android on weekends, this one is for you, bucko. 
Otherwise, youre in for a special treat.
See, it stars Sylvester Stallone. What that means 
is that theres very little pithy dialogue. There are 
very few meaty characters. There are only a 
modicum of love scenes. There is a plethora of 
witty dialogue and bullets and junk. Its dummy - 
dum-dum, people, but it will fulfill your quota for 
eggciting edventure.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
daturdayc loveDber 11
The Net
Sandra Bullock and Dennis Miller star in this 
dork-fest. Its about a woman who breaks into the 
wrong files, and the government, being awful and 
sneaky, takes away her drivers liscense, fishing 
liscense, and all her hairnets. Pretty scary, no? 
Si!
Anyway, thats pretty much it. Its all about how 
the Information Super-clover leaf-highway 66 
can kick your ass if youre not careful. Plain and 
simple. To the point.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
dundayc loveDber 12
Rollerball
There are these guys that go around a track 
hitting people while on Rollerblades. Pretty novel 
idea, no? Elvis couldnt have thought of anything 
better, you say? See, these Rollerguys are danger
ous in a world that has outlawed danger. They 
play Rollerball on Rollerblades and Rollerboogie 
all over each others Rollerfaces. Neat, huh?
So if youre one of those porkers th at ride around 
on campus on Rollerblades, this movie is for you! 
Take them off before you watch it, or youll fall 
down the stairs trying to get to the right room.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Three Rivers Film Festival gets ready
By W. LABEEKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Just when you thought only 
crappy movies were being shown 
in Pittsburgh, here it comes again: 
the Three Rivers Film Festival. 
This is the 14th time the groovy 
folks over at Pittsburgh Film
makers are doing this, so you 
know they have their stuff right 
by now.
This years festival also intro
duces some new locations. Mov
ies will be shown at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse, the Melwood 
screening room over at the Film
makers homebase on Melwood 
Ave., (thats Oakland in case you 
didnt know) and the Harris The
ater on Liberty Avenue.
For those ofyou who are clueless 
about that last one, let me just 
tell you that it is right next to the 
peepshow zone in downtown, so if 
youre familiar with that part of 
town, you wont have any prob
lems finding the theater.
But enough snazzy talk, what 
in the world is showing?
The ones to watch
Although all the movies in the 
festival are certainly worth a look, 
some of them are sure to whet 
your appetite.
The first one in the group seems 
to be The Addiction. Now, you 
probably think we dont need any 
more vampire movies; however, 
we keep on getting them (and it 
really isnt my fault!). In this one 
Lily Taylor gets bitten by 
Anabella Sciorra and starts cruis
ing for hemoglobin fixes until 
Christopher Walken teaches her 
to stop (sort of). That shes a phi
losophy grad student should 
make you fear some really pre
tentious dialogue, but since this 
is all served up by Abel Ferrara 
CBad Lieutenant), it is bound to 
be a hell of a movie.
For a somewhat calmer sce
nario, check out Manuel 
DOlivieras The Convent. John 
Malkovich and Catherine
Deneuve are literature professors 
doing some obscure research on 
Shakespeare. This takes them to 
a convents library and eventu
ally to a very personal confronta
tion with its inhabitants. Also 
showing is the much acclaimed 
Through the Olive Trees. In what 
seems like an exploration of a 
classic theme, Kiarostami gives 
us this story in the set of a movie 
within a movie within a movie
Latin American cinema so dont 
let it pass.
If youre in a more relaxed 
mood, you might want to check 
out Love and Human Remains. 
The director of this one has made 
at least two awesome films (in
cluding Jesus of Montreal), so this 
one cant be too bad.
It concerns a twenty-something 
crowd of sexually diverse, hand
some people haunted by a serial
Photo courtesy Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
Odile & Yvette at the Edge of the World is one of the many films that 
will be screening in Pittsburgh during this years festival.
(youll figure it out) and it all 
makes for a very beautiful and 
playful treat that will also get 
your brain working a bit (imag
ine that). Dont miss either of 
these, you owe it to yourself.
For some classic, rare (and I 
mean rare) stuff, check out the 
next two films releasedto us mere 
mortals by Marty Scorcese. 
Mamma Roma is one of under
ground patron saint Pier Paolo 
Pasolinis least known works, but 
it happens to.be one of his best 
(yippee). Anna Magnani plays a 
prostitute bent on retiring for the 
sake of her son. Your typical Ital
ian movie it aint.
Then theres I am Cuba, a Cu
ban/Russian coproduction made 
back in the old days when Batista 
had the island in chaos. It looks 
like a pretty avant-garde film, 
and it is certainly a landmark of
killer (who is probably among 
them). Now with the help of psy
chic dominatrix, Mia Kershner, 
(Exotica) theyll try to sort out 
that problem plus all the other 
relationship dilemmas they have 
(and there are plenty). Wicked 
fun for the whole family.
American Indies
Among the ones in this group, 
we have some very interesting 
flicks. Art for Teachers of Chil
dren is bound to be a controver
sial movie, a sort of Lolita-syndrome send-up for the socially 
paranoid 90s (that have started 
to look like the 50s).
We also have an all-out surreal 
fantasy as two sisters escape from 
their family in Odile andlvette at 
the End of the World. Some other 
indies to check out here are the 
sentimental exploration of two
old-world womens lives in 
Martha and Ethel and the cute 
and mesmerizing ghost story of 
When Pigs Fly (featuring 
Marianne Faithful). Theres also 
the quite-hyped documentary 
Jup iter's Wife which is most prob
ably a blissful treat. And for those 
of you that havent gotten sick of 
this one yet, Living in Oblivion 
will also be playing.
Around the World in 17 ! 
films
Along with the films I men
tioned earlier, some other foreign 
films are going to be presentecj, 
notably among them And the 
Earth Did Not Swallow Him and 
City Unplugged. The first one is a 
charming coming of age story with 
some fantasy elements as told by 
a 12-year-old boy living in Mexico.
The second one appears to be ^ 
take on the neo-gangster flick 
but in Estonia. Heck, if they have 
McDonalds in Moscow I guess 
they can have Reservoir Dogs in 
Estonia, right?
For those of you who like him 
(or sappy reminiscence/family 
saga films for that matter), theres 
Terence Davis new movie The 
Neon Bible. This one has the re
deeming quality of Gena 
Rowlands in a main role, so it 
might be real neat. Go see it (and 
the other ones too).
There are going to be quite a 
few other good movies besides 
the ones I mentioned, so try and 
check out the full schedule when
ever you can.
This is a great chance to see 
some great and hard-to-find films, 
so be ready to run, run, run for 
the theaters starting November 
10.
The Three Rivers film festival 
runs from November 10-22 at the 
Playhouse, the Harris theater, the 
Rex, and the Melwood screening 
room. A full schedule with de
scriptions will run in this 
Wednesdays In Pittsburgh magaPoint Park fails to do justice to quality play
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
New York Newsday critic 
Michael Goldfarb once wrote, 
The Importance of Being Ear
nest is arguably the funniest play 
intheEnglishlanguage.Hemay 
very well be right, but you 
wouldnt know it from the Point 
Park College production.
The last play Oscar Wilde ever 
wrote is a hilarious satire of Brit
ish aristocracy, a tale of surface 
love hindered by societys shal
low rules.
The plot, as briefly as I can 
summarize it, revolves around 
John Worthing, J.P.s pursuit of 
the hand of Gwendolen Fairfax, 
and Algernon Moncrieff s pursuit 
of Worthings ward, Cecily 
Cardew.
The title character is merely a 
figment of Worthings imagina
tion ... or so he thinks. I had 
better stop there; for me to con
tinue in the little space I would 
boggle your mind. Ive seen and 
read the play, and Im still con
fused.
Its a brilliant piece of writing, 
filled with reversal, satire, mis
taken identity, mistakenly mis
taken identity, and great, quot
able, intellectual-dinner-party 
lines like, All women become like 
their mothers. That is their trag
edy. No man does. Thats his.
Point Park doesnt do the play 
justice, Im afraid, and while its 
difficult to pin down exactly why 
that is, I have to think its prima
rily the fault of the actors.
Steven Wilson and Brian Bare
foot, who play Worthing and 
Moncrieff respectively, both have 
the same problem: while they are 
certainly convincing (although 
their British drawls wavered), 
neither seemed to have a particu
larly good sense of comic timing. 
Wonderfully funny lines met two 
extremes: they were either 
brushed over completely or 
thrown away in a manner that 
was so obviously trying to be 
funny that it simply wasnt.
As he is listed in the program, 
T. Protulipac, who plays
Gwendolens mother, Lady 
Bracknell, didnt have a problem 
with delivery. What made him 
not-so-funny was that he is so 
physically huge and vocally over
powering that he is too threaten
ing to laugh at.
On the other hand, Marie 
OBrien and Melissa Young, who 
play Gwendolen and Cecily, both 
had a wonderful sense of timing 
and delivery, insuring that every 
line that was supposed to get a 
laugh did.
All the while, we didnt see them 
at work.
The costumes, while apparently 
true to the era (1895) are a bit 
flamboyant in some cases; I 
watched Lady Bracknells cos
tume more than I watched her. 
Him. Whatever.
The sets are somewhat 
crowded, but didnt seem to cause 
too much trouble. The actors deal 
with the Playhouses theatre-inthe-round setup quite nicely. Tlie 
biggest laugh, sadly, came with 
the curtain callit was the most 
ridiculously choreographed 
means for the actors to take their 
bows that I have ever seen. It 
must have taken more rehearsjal 
time than the play itself.
Generally, however, thats tike 
only negative note I have for tljie 
job done by the director Jim 
Prescott.
All of this should indicate ! a 
very good production, but I ain 
left feeling that Wildes high com
edy was somehow missed, except 
for some brief glimpses. I wisli I 
had seen the same production 
Goldfarb did.
The Importance of Being Ear
nest is playing through Nov. 19 at 
the Playhouse at Playhouse 
Square, 222 Craft Avenue. For 
tickets or more information, call 
621-4445.
classified
JOBS
Everyone Welcome
Albright United 
Methodists 
Sundays, 11am 
^Woxifiip.
Vm Pfcfasp at Mtam 
Fotfees Bus Stop
Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
stuffing S600 - $800 every week. Free 
details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 
Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New York 
11230.
Wanted! Individual, student organiza
tions to promote Spring Break. Earn 
money and free trips. Call Inter-Campus 
Programs, at (800) 327-6013 or http:// 
www.icpt.com.
RESUME SERVICES
Finishing Touches Complete word 
processing services: Transcription 
reports, term papers, thesis, resumes - 
quick, convenient, professional. For 
more information call Terri at 242-7628.
TRAVEL
No need to pay high airfares to Asia, 
Europe, or Central & South America. Call 
Mercur-Lombardo Travel Agency at 412- 
751-0300 or 1-800-367-6582 for the best 
prices. Serving the traveling public for 
over 45 years.
RANTED
A group of artists and academics 
gathering to celebrate beauty and arts. 
Requires attractive men and women to 
welcome and serve refreshments to 
guests. You will wear underwear only. 
Appreciation of art a must.. No sex. 
Please send photo and qualifications to: 
Bodies, Box 241, 4902 Forbes Ave, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3799.
Female performer needed. Artist needs
assistance in an installation. Will be 
touched, but not seen. Three hours 
performance. For info, contact: Bodies, 
Box 241, 4902 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3799.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........58.00/wk
21-50 words.........SlO.OO/wk ;
51-100 words.......$13.00/wk .
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University : 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Classifieds must be paid in cash or ' 
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer. f.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before J 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111


---------------------------------------------------

/N i W Tl't T\ Ar\/ ' amiiiia MBS}lALLV
Why are there twigs 
in my sweater?
WS
Happy 21 si birthday 
Amit!
If youre going to 
argue it, sing it.
Painting, sculpture, and film and video 
installations by 36 artists from 16 countries 
will be on view at the Carnegie Museum of Art, 
November 5 through February 18. For more 
information call 622-6509.
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts Arena 
where would I have been if I had been 
intelligent! from October 11 to February 25. 
The show exhibits work by German artist 
Joseph Beuys, featuring 264 photographs 
encased in 100 aluminum frames and three 
panels of handmade glass encircling a mixed 
media sculpture. Call 622-6509.
The Mattress Factory presents Artists of 
Central and Eastern Europe from October 29 
to April 1996. For more information call 231- 
3169.
The Forbes Gallery presents its sixth show of 
the year which features Anthony Deluca with 
Jennifer Urso in Sub-Art. The exhibit will rim 
from November 6-11. For more information 
call 268-2081.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the onset of 1995 Carnegie Interna
tional, beginning November 5 through Febru
ary 18. The exhibit was organized by the 
museums curator of contemporary art, Richard 
Armstrong, and represents a confluence of the 
best of the moment in contemporary art world
wide. Call 622-3214.
The Hewlett Gallery presents Industrial 
Nature by sculptor Ron Klein, who lives in 
Jenkintown, PA. Kleins sculptures will be on 
exhibit from October 30 to November 20. 
Admission to the gallery and reception are free. 
Call 268-3877.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts presents 
Odd Norway: Recent Paintings, on exhibit 
from October 13 to December 31. Nerdrums 
work, which has international standing, is 
represented in museums throughout Europe 
and the United States. For more information 
call 361-0873.
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History
will open its newly renovated Hall of North 
American Wildlife on November 16. This 
enhancement complements the adjacent Hall of 
African Wildlife, which opened in 1993. For 
more information call 622-3131.
International Images Ltd. is pleased to 
present ALMA: Latvian Contemporary Art. 
The public reception will be held this Friday 
from 6-8 pm. The exhibit will be on view 
through November. Call 741-3036.
Lectures
Dear Ann, 
I dont understand 
why people dont go 
on dates here. 
-jaded senior
Art
Films
Casablanca will play in DH 2210 on Thursday 
at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Judge Dredd will take place in DH 2210 on 
Friday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
The Net will show in DH 2210 on Saturday at 6,
9 pm, and midnight.
Rollei'ball will show in DH 2210 on Sunday at 5, 
7:30,10 pm and midnight.
Haircut No. 1 and Eat, both directed by Andy 
Warhol, will be screened in The Andy Warhol 
Theater this Wednesday through Friday at 12:30 
pm, Saturday at 3 and 7:30 pm and Sunday at 
12:30 pm. Call 237-8300 for more information.
Ken Jacobs to Jack Smith and Andy 
Warhol: The 1960s Avant-Garde, a presenta
tion at the Andy Warhol Museum Theater includ
ing films by Ken Jacobs, all directed by Andy 
Warhol, will show on November 10 at 7:30 pm. 
Call 237-8300 for more information.
Music
The CMU Art Department Fall 1995 Lec
ture Series presents artist Howardena Pindell, 
November 16 at 5 pm in DH 2315. Lectures are 
free and open to the public. For more informa
tion visit our World Wide Web site, http://wwwart.cfa.edu/.
The Tai Chi Club will meet from 4:30-6:30 pm 
on Tuesdays. For more information contact 
Malcolm Bauer at 268-7002 or by email at 
malcolm@cs.
Sex in America will be the topic of Dr. Edward
O. Laumanns public lecture this Tuesday at 
4:30 pm in Breed Hall (MMCH). Dr. Laumann is 
Phi Beta Kappas visiting scholar and a George 
Herbert Mead Distinguished Professor in the 
Department of Sociology at the University of 
Chicago. For more information contact Vanessa 
Calvin at 268-1077 or through email at tango.
Rhythm: Is It the Unifying Element Within 
the Arts and Beyond? The Design Depart
ment of CFA will present the fifth in a series of 
colloquiums exploring the concept of rhythm as 
it is understood in various disciplines. Come for 
action, stimuating discussion, and refreshments. 
All are welcome this Friday from 4:30-6 pm in 
CFA 314C. For more information call the Design 
Department at 268-2822.
Join the River City Brass Band for a starspangled celebration of music made in the USA 
and a special Veterans Day Salute from Nov. 10- 
19. From sea to shining sea, theyll paint a 
musical portrait of America as vibrant, colorful 
and interesting as is this great land. The first 
concert plays on November 10 at 8 pm at Carson 
Middle School in North Hills. For more informa
tion call 322-6821.
The University of Pittsburgh Music Depart
ment presents Peter Joseff on the clarinet as part 
of its Music on the Edge Series on November 14 at 
8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. Call 624- 
4126.
Carnegie Mellon University Department of 
Music presents Bejamin Brittens Albert 
Herring, a frothy English comic opera in three 
acts November 10-11 at the Antonian Theater at 
Carlow College. Curtain time is 8 pm. 268-2383. 
\The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present Cappella Pratensis, a nine-voice Dutch 
ensemble of cappella singers, in an evening of 
Josquin this Saturday at 8 pm in St. Pauls 
Cathedral, 125 N. Craig Street, Oakland. Tickets 
can be purchased at the CMU Student Center,
Pitt Student Union, Classical Tracks, or by phone. 
Call 682-7262.
Dicesare Engler proudly welcomes Kenny 
Wayne Shephard with a special guest to Rose
bud this Thursday for a 21 and over show at 7:30. 
Doors will open at 6:30 pm. Tickets are $6. For 
more information call 562-9900.
Carnegie Mellon Department of Music pre
sents Cuartetolatinoamericano with pianist 
Irene Schreiert. The performance wiil be held in 
the Mellon Institute this Saturday at 3 pm. For 
more information call 268-2383.
Carnegie Mellon Department of Music pre
sents The Music of Lee Hoiby at the Mellon 
Institute this Sunday at 8 pm, with guest artists 
Mimi Lerner, mezzo-soprano; Andres Cardenes, 
violin; Christopher Nu, viola; Anne Williams, 
cello; and Ralph Zitterbart, piano. Call 268-2383.
Performing Arts for Children continues its 
1995-96 family entertainment series with the 
black light puppetry of Fish Whiskers November
12-19 at five locations and in the heart of 
Pittsburghs Cultural District. Tickets are $5 or 
$20 for a subscription package. Call 321-5520.
Carnegie Mellon Department of Architecture 
presents Architectural Theory and Practice: 
The Case of Andrea Palladio, a lecture by 
Elwin Robison of Kent State University, this 
Thursday at 4:30 pm in Margaret Morrison 103. 
For more information call 268-2354.
City Theatre on the Southside pre
sents Philip Hayes Deans biographi
cal play Paul Robeson. The show will 
open this Wednesday at 8 pm and will run 
through November 12. For more informa
tion call 431-4400.
University of Pittsburgh Theatre 
presents Les Liaisons Dangereuses by
Christopher Hampton. The show will run 
from November 9-18 at 8 pm in the 
Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre. For 
more information call 624-PLAY .
Notices
The Economic Club of Pittsburgh will 
sponsor a Career Day for local college 
students on November 14 from 7:30-11:30 
am at the Hyatt Regency Hotel. Students 
are asked to RSVP through a flyer, avail
able at the Career Center. For more 
information call 396-6250.
Students who have taken the GREs
will be able to find out their test scores a 
week or more earlier than usual by dialing 
an 800 number starting in mid-November. 
The fee for the service is $10. For more 
information call 734-5050.
The History Society will hold its meet
ing this Thursday from 4:30-5:30 in 
Porter Hall 126A. The topic will be In
ternships in History. Email bethann.
CMUout will hold a meeting and 
movie night this Friday from 7:30-10 pm 
in the Morewood TV room. Well watch 
Victor Victoria; Come OUT and join us.
For more information call 268-8794.
Crossing Limits is considering art
work for the book cover of an upcoming 
poetry anthology. Art work may also be 
used for promotional materials. Send 
photos or slides of original unpublished 
work to: Crossing Limits; P.O. Box P
300; South Craig Street; Pittsburgh, Penn. 
15213. For more information call 421- 
1695.
Reading Series
-Theatre
Java Jeffs Coffeehouse at 2301 Murray 
Avenue has poetry readings every second 
and fourth Monday of every month at 8:30 
pm. Call 421-JAVA for details.
African-American culture expert 
Stanley Crouch will discuss and sign his 
latest book, The All American Skin Game, 
this Saturday at Borders Book Store. For 
more information call 835-5990.
Crossing Limits cordially invites 
poets, friends, and families to a multi
cultural poetry reading at the Carnegie 
Library November 15 at 7 pm. Admission 
is free. For more information call 421- 
1695.
Carnegie Mellon presents Perfor
mance Poets, local authors for 1995 
Visiting Writers Series. This Friday 
features Pulitzer prize nominated poet 
and essayist, David McKain. All readings 
are held in Baker Halls Adamson Wing at 
8 pm, free and open to the public. For 
more information call Hillary Masters at 
268-6443.
- Sports
CMU Football will play Case Western 
University in a home game this Saturday 
at 1:30 pm.
The CMU Hockey Club will compete 
against Robert Morris College in Neville, 
PA this Saturday at 8:30 pm.
Vox Populi Voice of the People
Schmoopey
Schmoopey
Schoompey
Happy birthday Am;
Coleman has no gai
Please submit Vox Populi announcements. Deadline for entries is November 9 by 5 pm. Announcements should be 20 words 
or less. Drop them off at The Tartan office in the Student Center Room 104, send to The Tartan Box 17, or email sv2f.
t
