LEOTEE SKME8 
NEXT WEEK 
MONDAT TUESDAY
OEHEEAX A8UMBL7
BCDSIO WATT.
11:45 TODAY
VOLiiXXI N;.24'.-CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH,.PA..TUESDAY, MARCH 8, 1927
PLAID GAGERS 
CLOSE SEASON 
%\TEDEFEAT
Noseii Out by Pitt Five in 
Insist Seconds of Sensational 
Combat at Stadium Gym
DROP TUESDAY GAME 
TO WASH-JEFFf. 30-52
Captain . Hurd, Toots -Anutas 
and Walfy Lynoh End Bril
liant (Floor Careers.
Lost week tbe Sklbos completed their' basketball schedule by drop* ping a one-sided same to W, and J.( 30 to 62, Tuesday evening In tbe Plaid Gym, and losing a bard fought game to Pitt the following Friday. 6n Panther ground, 39 to 41. The' game, with W. and J.. was a listleeB encounter where the Skibos were outclased In every department except fight, while the second encounter was tbe.beBt exhibition that the Scotch have put on this season.
The W. and J. game was started off a few seconds after the whistle blew, by a clever side shot from Robinson, which gave the visitors the lead that was never threatened, .throughout the game. From then on the President's offense found - no trouble ; in penetrating theflghtiue SklboB and the .score stood at halt time 21 t 10 la favor of the. Washingtonians.
The second half proved to be a continuation of the first, and the W. nd J. forwardB ran the Tartans, to. death. .. Coach Irwin made numerous substitutions, but was apparently unable to get a combination which could solve the President's offense. Th Jays" seemed to have the basket hypnotized for they shot from all angles of tho floor, and the ball did not seem to be^able t.o.mlsB tbe bankot, while the Tartans missed > many easyshots. ,The.-game ended with the. W. and J.' aggregation on the long end of a 52 to 30 score..
The redeeming .feature' of the Tartans play was their ability lu foal shooting, for they made 10 out'of 13 tries. Ainanp took the stellar role for the Tartans, by amassing. 15 of'the SkJbo .points,'' and' byleading wh&t-- little "ffeos tbe Plaid, displayed. The team as a whole seemed to get off on the wrong foot, and did not regain their equilibrium throughout the
The summaries . Wash-Jeff52.Robinson ..........FKlrkman ....... .FGilchrist ..........CCarlin :.............CWild .................CScore by halve 'Wjtish-Jeff ........
follow
Harder . Lyhch
L EO TSKSubstitutionsHerrold, for Klrkman. Amos for WiW, Sanders for Gilchrist, Atfch. . for: ^Carlin, . Hurd for Lynchi^ .Stiaaffei-'-'-fpr\:Aman8j 'Amana for ' Stauffer,  Stauffer for Lynch; Lynch for Hurd.Field goalsRobinson 10, Klrkman 6, Gilchrist 2, Carlin 5, Wild. Sanders, Amana 5, White, HarpBter, Lynch, Hitchcock 2.FoulsW. and J., 4 out of 6; Tech 10 out of 13. s 'RefereeSlock.UmpireBuck Baird.
tans . '. flghUng . for. the felly championship,: gave the best that they had, and put up a battle that Is rarely seen on the basketball floor. With three stars of the Plaid, Amans, Lynch and Hurd, playing their last game for the-Tartans, it is no.wonder that such a fight was
The Tan.ua started off with a slight lead, but for th<: the iKow
howetfrom
Pitt kept is, * Rlhanek
iB at tbe foul line. Soon1 '. tbe Plaid, forged ahead.. __} deluge of shots rained bnthe basket by White and linens, and with two; minutes left to play in the first half, the score stood22 to 14 In kavor of Carnegie. Now Pitt started a rally, and with three baskets* from Reed and oue from Kowallts,. the half ended In a tie.Techcaqie out for the second half, primed for the fray, and while Pitt was attempting to settle down and play basketball, forged to the head seven / points. Now. -Rfced. bagged one; .but'this did not stop the attempts of the ' Sklbos, for soon after the acore stood 36 to 26,. ..with seven minutes left , to play. Kowallis now caged two baskets, and Hurd, calle'd a time' out for Carnegie. When play started again, Amans shot his .last basket, giving Carnegie Its thirty-eighth , point - Soon after Pitt started a spurt, Reedi. contributing two bask.' ets; and Kowallis and WrobleBkl adding1 two polnlfl from tlie' free: throw llnfe. The score was 39 to 38 when Llssfelt fouled Harpster, and wae forced out on personals. Harpster made, the shot good,\ and. the'dan howled with glee. Soon after Lvnch fouled  Kowallisout . went Wallv on personals, and in 
t Kowalle's foul point
from Kowallis.. and " closed hli and.hot.from the center of the floor;.dropping one ..Id tbat
OR. PETTY TO BE SPEAKGftCHAPEL ON THURSDAY
chajMJl on ' Thursdays March .10. There ,has lately, been a splendid' increaso in chapel attendance, par. Ucularly on March 3, when the 
Boys' Glee Club presented an exceptionally line ; program. This 
growth io attendance b expocted to : continue all through the preExeter and Lenten period, when efforts wlll.be made to have especially interesting programs. ,In addition to Dr. Pettys talk there
Womens Senior Ball 
Will be Held Mar. 11 
At the Webster Hall
Tal HenFys Players to 
Furnish Music. For 
Annual Event
The Womens Senior Ball, the last big social event of the class of 27, is scheduled for he evening of March 11. Webster Hnll has been chosen as thei scene for this outstanding event of the Senior
The success of this affair is assured when the name of the. or-. choBlra.ls mentioned. The . wellknown players of Tal Henry have been booked to play at the Senior bail. These, music makers have a very credible record. In addition to1 the popularity 'they have acquired la. various ' parts of the counttry, their fame Is far spread due to the Victor reproductions which have been made, of their music. During the past fall months the orchestra conducted a euccessBon in New York. Equally iful was their run of sev.eral :; the famCharleston. It was duri of tbe Charleston dance 'formers becamefair
i city  : the ei
thiscannot help but make the evening of the Women's Senior Ball a dellghlful event 
Although the advent of Tal enTyVorchestra should In.-ltself be sufficient Inducement for even the ' most sophisticated Senior to attendarne ^ bill;.ihe/tiiiofcher 
which will pervade ' the evenlnp nn Three.) %
DR. HEINR0TH GIVING 
SERIES OF LECTURES
Beethoven To Be Main Topic, 
of Saturday Night Tallo.
Friday, March 5th, marked the beginning of a perlea of lectures given annually at Carnegie Music Hall by Dr. Charles Helnrotb. The lecture, given last Saturday, Dn-Beethoven agProspective
 by Ir. Heinwill take usual Saturday night organ recital throughout. Len-Theatlonof Beeth. death, occurring in March, Uve of the lectures will be given over to discussion of. the nine symphonies of Beethoven, the chief monument of. this -master's lifes work, showing the essence of his genius. The lectures will be as follows*
March; 12th  "Beethoven as Master," his third and fourth symphonies.irch 19th"Beetho'hisind sixth
March 26thBeethoven ae a Character,1' his seventh and eighth 
symphonies.April 2nd"Bethovn as Genhis ninth symphony, riiese lectures will be Illustrated the symphonies, played on the nos, Dr. Heinrotli being assisted Mr. Dallmeyer Russell. Tho foiling lecture will close the Len
til 9thThe Technique of
COMPARATIVE
ARE DISCLOSED
Correlate Scholarship And 
Rushing at Fraternity 
Council Meeting
At _ the. Inter-Fraternity CouncU meeting of last Saturday "luomlng, the statistics comparing the scholastic group ratings of tbe fraternities for the flrfit semeBter.of this year,-with tbe similar flgaros io* the corresponding period of last year, were made .public for the flnt time. The computing of the average number of quality points, per unit for the eludette in each group haB Just been completed and a survey of the collective results may throw an interesting light upon the.several situations facing the Interlrotemlty Council and the Carnegie Executive Board.
For tbe first semester of the present year, the average ratio or the quality points earned to the number of units of work carried by all degree men In the freshman class is 3.27, while theratio for the first semester of last year was 3.06. Included In this group are all of the freshman pledges. Considered separately the fraternity pledges have an average ratio for this year of 3.25. against a rating of 3.10 for laet year,'making but a very small difference between this group and tbe entire first year class. The class numbers apprexl; niatly four hundred, and'-tbegroifp of fraternity pledges lpcludes one hundred seventy-five freshmeu. Last years fraternity pledge group was somewhat smaller, numbering only one hundredforty-nlno.
Contrasted with the ratios of the freshmen are the. ratings of the active members of tbe fraternities, exclusive of th freshmon pledges. The ratio thie year for (hie group is 3.51, against a mark of 9.62 for last year. It wlll.be noticed that while there Is a marked Increase In the ratings of the freshmen, the fraternity ratings have sutThe figures quoted above were
H. Saint Gaiidens to 
Talk on Camouflage
Major Homer St. Gaudens, head of the art department at the Carnegie Institute, is to lecture on Camouflage at the engineer reserve officers conference, which wilt be held in the Weatinghouae building at Ninth street and Penn avenue on March 16.Major St. Gaudens has played a very Important part in the camouflage movement during the World War. He has at hlB command a knowledge of the subject which, will enable him to portray to his audience, 1a a very vivid fashion, the use of the comparatively recent -discovery:- ' Hislecture will'be'augmented by the use of lantern slides. RO. T. C. members, especially, are asked to make
cussed generally at the meeting is "Special. Engineering ' Troops. This subject will bo divided into three parts, namely: Railroad,water supply and camouflage. Competent speakers have been obtained for the' occasion, and the meeting should'be of value to those Interested in military activities.At present' there Is going on .be* tween-the rifle-teams. of'C. I. T. a very hotly contested competition. The girls are 'represented by an
They have tost only one meet this' season. Both varsity and plebe mens teams have enviable records, making the outcome'doubtful. The
a will be made immediately e contest, which Is to be held en the respective companies, cadet officers.
Plebe Drama Students to Give
Stunts at Noon in Arts Foyer
tccordance with the traditions 
lie Drama department, the 
freshmen of that department will 
perform their annual stunts at 
every day this week lu the  of the Arts Building. There will be no stunts on Thursday.
On 'bended knees
uwv>i, v.i ___of chap...These stunts are performed as mtences which were meted out  the unfortunate victims at  a elaborate trial held shortly il Freshman pro-  s the
___________..J their__________ and personal .idio
syncrasies In the art of acting ilcked by others and are then sentenced to perform certain noon la the foyer of the 
theatre.-There will be three acts ot ten Unutes each, beginning at one dockthus: enabling the specuitors to obtain their lunch, beforehand.The schedule of .acta for week. Is as follows;Monday, Mareh 7 Abfcatlcchlo Beck and Bumge
duly i
...........InNecktertecturee and Smith.. . :Oh Please ,andBodycombe...................In the Old Country
.............Monkey BusinessFoster. Krelltz... .Teeth and Hair Steele, Shrader. .Great Temptation Wednesday, March 9 Dunnells, Finsterwald^. *
....................The.Sin TwistersSessions, Seybold... .y..........................The Fraternity TwinsYoung, Wenrlcb........... . . .Midnight in a Boiler Factory 
Thursday, March 10.'Chapel. - .Friday, March 11
.:.Do Gentlemen Prefer-Blonds? Bodycombe, Graham..Tea for Two McKann, Kann... ... .CannedThese, stunts : are, presented to the student .body for' approval and, of found unsatisfactory, must..'be repeated at a - later. date. - Additional stunts are. posted for. next week and all acta are open to the entire student body.'.
Advance Standing Students
, -Transfer From 117 Colleges
^ There are ,19-studentna*-eni rolled la Carnegie Tech who bav0 entered with advance standing They have come from 117.'differ} ent schools located In almost aM sections .of the world. They ard bot all from technical schools btif a large number have previously . aV .tended college's of a purely 11 be mi arts nature. About 90 per cent;' have completed one' or tv before entering here.Perhaps the most oulstandl feature is' the distance '& theBe - persons have tra> become membersof theStdbo[ clagB: Two have traversed hailj
United States. They have discontinued their schooling at some of the most outstanding coilegeB ahcl' universities of. tbe United States and the world to. finish at Toth, Tbe following gives the' more out-' standing schools from which they,
Unlvenlty of Calcutta. S; Wel-i lesley College, 3; Cornell Unlv'ei**. Blty, 3; Goachnr College, 3; MaseCOMPUTE PLEDGE 
SCHOLARSHIP
Phi Kappa Frosh Are First; 
Theta Xi, 2nd, in Rating 
Of Plebe Pledges
icholorship ratings for thd first semester of 1S26-27... the pledges of the Phi Kappa fratomlty stand first with an average of S.dB qoallty points per unit of work carried.'13.96. blchsecured third place with an averfreshmen pledges of 16 fraternities on the Carnegie campuB. Acacia, the other fraternity,- 'hoa no freshmen pledges thisperlod. The treahmen pledge .ratings'for.mester.
, 3.30'
1. Phi Kappa2. Theta XI ....... .......3. Pi Kappa Alpha........4,.Wo0dlawn Club ........6. Kappa Sigma;Rho.6. Beta Sigma Rho.......7. Alpha Tau Omega...',ft. Alpha's Sigma - Phi.-T'. -' 9.-Kappa Sigma .........10. Delta Tau Delta.......11. Delta Upsilon .........12. Phi Sigma Kappa...;13. Sigma Nu ................14: Delta Mu :................15. Sigma Phi Epsilon...16. Detta Phi Delta.......17. <S*gma Alpha Bpellon
ratings of the actives. Alpha sigma Phi, with a rating of 4.03 bas a higher rating than the pledges of Phi Kappa with 3.98. At the other end of tbe lists, the fraternity actives make a .better showing than the pledges. The lowest rating of actlves.Of a fraternity?Is'J.18 and a rating of 2.64 is the lowest pledge score. .
PLUMBING INSTRUCTORS 
HOLD CONFERENCE HERE
under the combined auspices. of the' Trade Extension Bureau of the National Association of .Master Plumbers. Carnegie,and;. . the University of  Pittsburgh, is how in full! sway; The flfat;meetingwas scheduled for Monday, *'et> ruary 28, and took place In the Faculty room of the Industries Building, where the entire conference, will be conducted. A portion of this large room has been id the 40 plumbing
been disc
l here for the past week, nils 12-day course haa been lecially drawn upto. enable rlous Instructors and those who .end to. teach coursea In plumb5/ within the next year, to find iome of the prob-iema attendant with the ful teaching of the course.Carnegie Is the first school In this part of the country to conduct this Teachers Training Course, and has been  co-operating with the University of Pittsburgh to make the conference'-one of unuThelight well betaken as a criterion for the profound Importance of the Continued on Page Three)
<aachosetts Instituteof , Technoogy.* 3; Penn State, 13; Washington and JeQeraon College,. 6; Ohio University, 6; University' of Southern .California, 2; San Diego Slate College,. 1; University of Pittsburgh, 14; Princeton, 1; Alabama Polll, 4.In recent years, the admittance of advance standing has been encouraged, by tbe leading technical schools.. There ore three reasons for this encouragement: first, they are better able -to carry on the work due to their previous ei encs; second, they have a t foundation upon' wiilch. to bultd because of their provlous academic studies; third, they enable the student to become acquainted with the methods and customs of other schools. The fact that, the senior class at Massachusetts institute of Technology was larger lhan the freshman, a few years ago, shows the extent to which some of the leading schools are encouraging the advance standing student.Dnrlng the last five years th number, of advance standing stu(Continued on Page Three.)
Appoint Bren ton to 
Head Home Concert
Ho die Concert Dance in 
Union From 10:30 to 1:30 
Admission $1.50
The Carnegie.Musical Ctubs will stage their/anqual Home Concert at the Carnegie,.Music Hall, Friday evening, March 25, at 8:15 p. m.
The Musical Clubs Home Concerts. are becoming more popular each year,; and a further advancement Is promised this year. The
within the means dent. Choice: seal $1-00will be only
who is chairman of the concert is ably assisted this year by J. Robertson, Wilbur. Scott and Carl Fry.Wilbur A. Scott has been elected to fill the pobIUorof Olee Clnb manager. Allan V. Nern, who bas been managing the Glee Club for the. post school year, found it ne.ceseary to. resign from hlB duties, February 27.i: Scott, this yenr's publicity man_ _ ager, a Junior In the Music Depart* rrssfr 'iAnntj-was  unanlmoQBly-' eleciBd toQtl the position of manageV for th< balance of the year. He was accompanist for two years, and director of the Kiltie Quartette, for the same length of time. Scott Is a member of the Clef Club and a pledge to the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity.The committee announces that the concert, while brief, will be Continued on Page Three.)
Music Students to 
Cive Recital Mar. 12
'"-fiitiHlents of the Department ot Music will present a recital in the Little Theatre In the Arts Building this Sunday evening at .8:i5 oclock. This recital will be the first one given by the music at* dents this semester. The program, eonetatlDg of piano and string numbers. Is quite varied. Tbls program is aa follows:
Schubert....String Quartet Op. 29 Allegro ma non troppo.Ida Waldron, Alice Harding, KathJosephine McGrall.Mozart, Violin Concertir ln D Major ( Allegro.Edmund Schucbert.Brahms. .Variations on an Hungarian Song.Liszt. .Hungarian Rhapsody, No. 11 Augusta Caplan.Monro.............'... My Lovely .Celia
Violin, Op. 47 (Kreutzer). Adagio sostenuto 'Andante con variazlonl PrestoCarolyn Gray, Raymond Ran Accompanist, Lucille Burrell.The above program will be rich a presentations from such old (Continued on Page Three.)
Gay Crowd Packs Union at 
Annual Gambol of Guilds
The annual banquet of the Sophomore Class. of tbe Margaret Morrison Carnegie College will tie held on Saturday, . March 26. at tho Schenley-Hotel. .
The invitations will be seut;out In the liear future. ' EVe'ry Sopho1' more Is urged to attend for an enjoyable'time has beon promised by odat committee, which has assumed the full responsibility of the igram and Is. planning the evenings program.
The following are the girls on (he committee: . Gladys Connor, chairman: Miriam Portno,: Miriam Cupps. Sally. Jolly, Barbara Renwlk and.Betty Marabal. Mary Alice Bright and Helen Brlgbt,:membere. of the Sophomore Class, have 
done-much, to aid this committee;
'The Union last Friday night was the scene of th most successful Industries frolic that tbe college has ever staged. The attendance surpassed the. two hundred coupls who were expected." McGowan's Pirates - proved ' themselves true masters of syncopation and their quaint costumes addd to'I
boi. of the Guilds mafk vatlon ln the matter; of refreshments. An ' ample : lunch ' wae served In the Carnegie commons. The 'absolute luformallty of the affair made the dance a very enjoyable one for all present The< committee who ' staged the frolic this year deserve'a special word of comiendatlon for the success;, which attendedtheir efforts to make the dance a'novel one. The group includes Al Johnson' general chairman: Fred Woods,publicity: 1 M. :D; - Bamaldes. re
freshments:. John Dean. progran and PbUlp Schaeider. jMvettlea.
NEW LECTURE 
SklS STARTS 
W MONDAY
Collis, Famous European 
Scientist to Give First 
Seres Mar. 14 and 15
Two new series ot public lec* tores arranged by President Thomas S. Baker will be delivered during March and April'by prominent .European'scientists.
The first series,-', scheduled for Monday and' Tuesday nights, March 14 and 16, will be given by Dr; Edgar L. Collls. professor of preventive medicine ot the University of Wales, und a member of the Health' Advisory Committee aud Miners Welfare Commltteo of the British Ministry ot Mines. He will speak on "Industrial DUets and 'Human Factor in British Coal Mining." Special Invitations to attend' this series are being sent to the Western Pennsylvania members of the National Safety Council. Dr. Collls bas made intensive studies of dust hazards in Great Britain end is considered on authority on this subject..
The second series, arranged for Monday and Tuesday nights, April 4 and 6. will be delivered by Dr. Arthur Haas, professor of physics at tho University at Vienna, who is known international
ly for hit: work in physics. .(Subjects of his Pittsburgh lecturoa, according to the announcement, will be "The Atom as a Source of Energy" and. "Objective and Human
Both series of lectures will be(Continued on Page Threa)
Compute Dormitory 
Scholarship Ratings
Mens Eorjiitories Average 
3.36 P. Q., While Wom
ens Rating is 3.60 P. Q.
Further statistical computations of the first somostor scholarship, indicate that the five men's donnt'erage 9.36 points of qoalmite of work carried while en'edormitorlea/topped
average. Henderson Hall ratio ot3.50 P.'Q. per unit; Forbea Hall, 
i, with an average ot 4.18 P. Q. per unit of work carried.
The scholastlo rating ot the en's dorms for the flnt semester 1926-27 are as follows:Henderson Hall .................. 3.E0McGUl Hall Hall .Scobell Hall Welch Hall
IMPORTANT MEETINGOF TARTAN EOITORIALSTAFF NEXT MONDAY
There viU be an Important meeting of the editorial staff of the Tartan nett Monday. March 14th. In room 10 of the'Arts school. The meeting wlU start at '7:00 p. m. sharp and will positively be over at '9:30 p. m. This meeting includes freshmen reporters, sophomores. Juniors and seniors. Be 
there!
PICK REMAINDER 
OF CAMPUS WEEK 
SUB-CHAIRMEN
First Meeting of General 
Committee to be Held 
Tonight at 8:30
the following appointments ot subcommittee . chairmen. General Planning. George McKinney; Country Fair, Lyle Sheppard; Electrical, Raymond Hurd: Secretary,Emily -Fulton: larlei Saodl
brook; Burlesque, Bob Stevens: Ticket Sales, P. M. 'Williams; Girls Events. Eunice Clark, appointed to fill the vacancy
the position beaauso work. These appointments ; complete the list ot tho general committee,
The personnel of the various subcommittees will be appointed by Maroh. 16, and their names will be announced In a future Issue of the Tartan.
Tbe first meeting of the General Committee will'take place this evening, March 8, at 8:30, directly after the Student Counoll meeting, In the Student' Council room.
Work, 21 progresaJng rapidly on general planning .and the show, Sam Janney, author ot "Tho Desperate Woman," last year's' campus Week Show, arrived in town last Saturday to confer with Walt Rogers, chairman ot. the show. Janney has written a new play, and it Is boing considered seriousThe appointment of the whole ot the general committee at such an oarly 0ate Is expected to facilitate the planning, and execution Ot the
........"'-Mb'planned to have everything pleted but the actual construction by Easter. This will eliminate the annual - rush, with resultant wear and tear on the' Committees' nerves. . -Several different ideas have suggested for the period of Campus Week. One of the most popular . ones Is the 1 Indian motif. The 3.464 campus would lend itself readily to such decoration, nod .costuming In the Indlpn
The wqmens donnllt r the first semester are Bho below:Forbes Hall........... 4.Melton Hall.................. 3.Birch Hall ............. 3.Continued 'on -Page Three.)
.ting
DATE OF MENS SENIOR 
BALL CHANGED TO ARP. 7
The Mens Senior nkll date' has been changed from April 1 to Thursday. Aprlj 7, by tbe decision of the committee In charge. '
April 1 was the. date set for this event according to tho .Plebe Bible; but the date finally decided upon, by dance committee, is considered more convenient, since it occurs jUBt before Easter vacatli dents' will thus be able mence the holiday season la the proper spirit, and to enjoy an evening of pleasures untroubled by thoughts of studles'and classes. .The dance committee consists of six Senior men, two appointed from each School Industries, Science, and Arts , by the presidents of the three classes. Th members of the'' committee Is as follows: William Eacber, chairman, and Paul Williams (rom the College of Engineering; N. P. Mitchell and ,C. H. Turner of the College o( InScotty Ross
RUNYAN WILL LECTURE 
ON TOPIC FILTRATION
Will Blscuea Modern Chemical 
Separation Equipment.
Filtration Equipment in Todays Industries," the fifth of a series of seven chemical equpiment lectures, will be given by Mr. H.
intlng
Webster H&il, how quite popular among' the. Carnegie students, has been selected as the scene of the ball; and although the orchestra has not yet beeo decided upon, the . Continued a Page Three.)
irtlculaiStu-[apparatus that Is used ln a given  separation, to the best advantage always requires a particular study of the materials involved. For oxample, one type of filtering apparatus can be used on coarse, rapid* 1y settling solids, while an .entirely different form must be used where the solids' are In an 'extremely fine state of sub-division. Again, the particular manner in which solid moss (usually ailed filter cake) 1s removed varies with the particular kind ot material treated.
These various problems will ho discussed by Mr. Ruayau... The particular form of filtering a'pparThe College of Industries has recently. completed .its elections for toffices, ?eft open through first semester ' Ineligibilities and osiers. Theoffice of Athletic Council Representative Is now ' to be filled by "Red Allen, a memof-'.Kappa.Sigma. JohnMca member of Slgma Pbl Epel-. raternlty and of Ute; cfoes country'team is' the ne^V elected 
. Tbe
clous,Alpha.' 'Constitution of the College of Tbdiistrles was also made at this time,' to. the effect that  In Tuture " the''Senate' President ot Industries shall be elected by popular ballot instead ot by the Senate as has betfn doneheretpf*re
jach problem
The stage Is nil set' for the annual Carnegie Y" dinner to be held 'tomorrow evening at 6:15 In the Faculty dining room of the Carnegie Inn. Earl Botbwell of the Oakland branch of tbe Y. M. C. A. will be the speaker. He ia an interesting speaker who-has become very prominent in the Y".'circles.Tho committee .Is maklug. preparations tor 70 persons. The .safe of tickets has been heavy and it is expected that every seat will be
Haven, J. Johnson ,tor Prof. :,Sheean;, also In the"Y:office, central building.Every student' is welcome to come to this, gala dinner, regardless of whether he. ia a inember-ot the Carnegie *Y or not Tickets can'ihe obtained for 50 cents'. It is advisable to get your ticket today for you may be disappointed in 
your last  mloute effort to obtain
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
11:45 TODAY AT 
MUSIC HALL
Schedule Promises Short 
Snappy Progreqi.as Big 
Attraction For Students
GLEE CLUB IS 
MAIN FEATURE
Violin Solo By Owens, Stunt 
By "Felix and "Oscar 
On Program.
The Student General Asaomhly to be held la Carnegie. Muslo Hall at lli: 45 today will begin promptly 
at the scheduled time, and will iadt 45 minutes.* Tbe program coiniHtee has arranged to abide rigidby this, M8 N X Wrolonged ase experienced.
The main feature of this week's program win be' the Carnegie Gleo Club, recently awarded honorable mention In Uie otate contest held in Carnoglo DAMUY Hair The Glee . Club will open the ferogram with a group of three selections, fallowing the glee club., "Felix* Me* dure and Oscar Norbock will oiler an original atunt This return of tho popular comedians will be welcomed by all who remember tha past antics of these two "versatile drama students. A violin solo and a Bpeolal toe dance will be followed by asothor group of seloo
row  f0-1
(a) Dear Old Tech.Arr. by Gaul(b) Song or Fellowship...;......
.........................Horvoy B. GauJl(c Carnovale .....:........ RossiniSung by the Glee Club.Felix and Oscar...................
. V:.Oscar Norbeck, FelirMcClure' Violin Solo ....Kenneth DLOwena Acomprmio by. Miss Mary Hull 
Toe Dance.Mary^Virginia Redmond (Pupil of Miss jean: Boyle) Acoompanled by Harry ' Cohen,(a) Now Is the Month, of May
ing . .'.Thos. Morley(b) I Loved a Malden Fair.........(17th Century Melody)(c) Nellie Was A Lady, i., .FosterBy the Glee Club.Soloist^ Richord Voa Bnde. ^.' *>A' stance :at * the almve 'program  Will show tbat the ; asemblr ia 'ta be .one of ontertalnmont only-and should prove an interesting one. There will'probably be-several important announcements' concerning school affairs made at the meeting. The committee has so arranged (Continued on Page Three.)
Committee Picked 
For New Magazine
A general committee of 16 members, appointedfrom all four Car noglo colleges, will meet on Thursday afternoon at 4:30 In Room 230 Central Building, for the consideration of plans for the suggested all-school magasine. At a meeting ot the Student Council on February 8 it was decided to dlscoatinue the publication of the Shilling, and the Idea of starting a new publication, of  more . universal appeal was at that time officially recog-, nlzed.
The newiy. formed committee consists of a representative /group of juniors , and seniors who..have been actively Interested in journalism and publication Work, .and the first meeting is scheduled tor Thurslay. Members of the 'commltteo will - discuss the proposed project ' and the advisability ot forming an organization for the publication. There is little, doubt but that the result of. the meeting will be .sufficiently Interesting to warrant the support ot tbo student body.The membere of the committee are: am Well, N. P. MltcheU, Shelby McMllllon, Fenton Finn, Francis Kolb, J. L. ustraw, Ted Moore, Russell Bulllnger, Lyle R. Sheppard; Donald ' Putt, Arnold Perreton, M. . C. Haynes, Mary Schelb, Glodys. York, SArali Hays, Betty. McFndden, Florence McLaughlin nd Josephine Clark..
Students ot tbe Sophomore Class of M. M. will hold, a bridge this Saturday afternoon from two to five o!clock at Kaufmanns. . The asessment for thlB'bridge will bo dollar which. will. go toward the fichoUnhlp the ' Sophomore
year.' Attendance to> Stllevening.' March 11. for tbe girls of the Forbis street dormitories.A well-Vnown orchestra has been - 
Obtained for Uie : evening, and a clever' specialty*act is being ar-' . ranged.i Tbomil chain
Ittee for the dance, belng aislsted by Jean Fulmer j :haT*e' of the - and Ruth Sites who wl ot the .refreihmenU.T'

---------------------------------------------------

ifyo 6Hthm Ctitrnli u d dued a fallare by faculty nembers. Themaln difficolt wii to get the students to report violations or the honor coue.  . : 
BUTLERS .
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET .. We-Dellver All^Order*. j. O. BAKER, Manager : Mayflower 7644
Jh Later Life
Early habits'are enduring ones, 'i Begin now io acquire these of saving and accumulating money. 
An account with the Mellon National. Bank: will give you a splendid start. Persistent savings will develop financial IndeMellon National BankPittsburgh,
 ELLIOTTS * 4010 Fifth Ave. Store is Convenient for Students Supplies
Our branch^store was established ior the patronage of neighborhood students and la stocked with merchandise required In their etudles.
j Theatre Tips }
STRAND THEATER
ituilng Evelyn Brent and TVm.- Powell tiU start the weefc'e program at the Strand' appearing ther' Wednesday end Thursday, Mslch' 9 and 10. 'Just another Blonde will hold tie screen Friday and Saturday with DorOtby MacD. W. Griffiths latest masterpiece Sorrows of Satan" with a great cast Including Adolphe MeDjcu, Ricardo Cortez, Carol Dempster and Lya.De Puttl the great Gerfan actress. Selected comedies arid news events with each change
MANOR THEATER
John Gilbert, the star of the "Big Parade*' comes to us again Id a picture equally as great, this time "FIe6h and the Devil at the Manor Wednesday and Thursday, March  9 and 10. Friday Love 'Em and Leave Em with Evelyn Brent, Louise, Brooks nnd Lawrence Gray. *The story concerns two slstere in love wltb the same man, dont miss It. Saturday While London Sleeps with RIn
. Monday and Tuesday D. W> Griffith the great masterpiece "Sorrows of Satan with an exceptional cast including Adolphe Menjou, Ricardo Cortez, Carol Dempster and Lye De PutU the great German tfctrmediec ich change of featurewith
SCHENLEY
o advaji.ee and formulate new Ideas about the prospective ortlzation - of the new clan. All Carnegie Alumni who reside in irthern New Jersey and .who dee to participate In the unusual entertainment which bas been ar> anged and to take part In the foi
Audiences in tbe Schenley Theater, Forbes 6treet, Oakland district, are having splendid entertainment. Monday and Tuesday, March 7 and 8. brlnge "The Winning of Barbara Worth/ adapted from Harold Bell Wrights famous novel of the same tame, ond having Ronald Colman nd VHma Banky in tbe principal roleB. On Wednesday and Thursday, March 9 and 10, the attraction will be "April Fool/' lo which Alexander Carr, famous for his iderful Jewish characterization, 
is the featured player. Friday and -day, March 11 and 12, wUl bring the.tremendous success, "It, adapted from Elinor Glyns story of the san^e name with Clara Bow id Antonio Moreno heading the st. On the stage throughout the week aro the-Junior Follies, a brilliant, fast action production of originality and interest./ Vera Reynolds, supported by Julie. Faye and
ertainer during the vWorld War, riti be the attraction Monday and Tuesday, March 14 and"5- Alexander Carr ot Potash end
No matter how high-hat 
a pipe may be ...
MKybe you. know some old fogey who 
owns one of these ultra high-hat pipes... _ 
a blotto bimbo who broadcasts a line of 
broad"A lingo:, cawnt enjoyNtobacco 
that costs less than two bucks the bunce
..; Well, paste this bit of news in the.
- old boy's stove-pipe:
In picking pipe' tobacco forget price 
entirely. . . draw your own conclusions 
through the stem of your trusty pipe. Draw 
deep from a bowlful, of grand old Granger 
Rough Cut and learn that there's one truly - 
 fine tobacco that doesn't cost a fortune, 
f Here's tobacco as fine, as any man ever 
: packed in his pipe.... Granger is made 
iorpipes and cut for pipesit smokes like 
a million dollars! But the pocket-package/ 
is a foil'pouch (instead of a ,a?stly tin) 
and so, it sells at just ten cents.
Its tobacco worthy of the dawgiest 
meerschaum or calabash. . . tobacco 
worthy of any pipe in the world!
GRANGER
Rough Cut
LMNI PAGE
NEW JERSEY CLAN 
PLAN TO ORGANIZE
Moving Pictures of Camegie Wiil be Shown Before 
Various High Schools.
According to a letter receive from Charles W. Gibbs of New Jei t>ey, an enthusiastic meeting of 14 ;Carnegi 'alumni residing In northern New Jersey, was held at the Newark Athletic Club on March 2 to .take 'steps toward organizing a Northern New Jersey 
Clan.  \Temporary officers..wore selected and a committee of which %lr. Gibbs is temporary chairman,-was painted to complete arrangeents for the showing of .Carnete ovles before various high schools id before a group of Alumni and tbelr friends. The date of the latshowing will be March 21 end Buddy Overead, the Graduate Manager of Carnegie Tech, will be s ;t of the committee at the ting. This will be  very good tunlty for alumni In the vicinity of northern N?w Jersey to rid memories of Carnele
fort
vivid iistlni
:ouchof the new clan should get M. Sheldon, ovle Committee 
>, West OraitelephoiOrange
761? or with C. W. Gl'otis, Jngereoll-Rand Company, 11 Broadway, New York City, telephone Bowline i 8424. Whether or not il in the New Jersey district And it convenient to attend thisparticular meeting on March 21, ;y should send in tbelr names, lr home and business addresses tbat o complete organization of
posslblo. It ha9 been suggested by Mr. Glbb that all alumni who d not receive a notice of the or* nlzatlon meeting should' send their names and addresses to the Lary of the* Northern New y Clan, Carnegie Institute of Technology, box No. 38, Elizabeth, Jersey. HBX
The Ladder i icelved from Carnegie Tartan, a theater program from the Broad Street Theater in Newark. N. J., with a penned notation to tbe offect tbat another S; Carnegie Tech student ot the Drama Department of tbe Cot. e ot Fine Arts bss successful aded-the theatrical world. Her__rt Polesle is doing justice to the role of Chaim Horowitz' In We Americans/. a new. play byj Milton Herbert Gropper and Max Siegel which yas recently pre-ented in Newark by Sam H. Haris. It Is truly remarkable how usually one Is apt to encounter, n almost any successful Held of. indeavor, a former Carnegie Tech nan or woman. One walks Into a
, and more often than not,
Perlmutter fame, who seems to forsaken the stage ' pertna.- for the screen, will be seen best in April Fool/' which Is Zion Meyer's adaptation of the plniy, April Showers/' by Edgar Allan Woolf. April Fool 1b the jlory of. business struggles of Jacob Goodman, a Russian immigrane.lowly, pants presBrto a wealthy umbrella magnate,. Goodcllrabs to luxury ' and ease, 
itory of his rise Is absorbingly dramatic and Ibrlllingly recisile, and there is ever-present undercurrent of wholesome humor that lufchly enjoyable
ng striking.settings t marled. From the Ire of New Toi: Side
the Goodman apaTlments on RAv erslde Drive, which reflects thi acme of luxury, these settings of fer a cross-section of every phas< of New York life. In the cast also are Duane Thompson, Mary Aldi Leon Stelntcld,.3osephr Applebaum 
and Molsha Glnsburg.
for pipes oflly!
Cr4S|<r Rm|)i Cu If \>f th* Llim MjmTefeActoC.
R oug hCttgR ]Varsity Clan Has Dinner 
And Attends: Pitt Game
who eton <>m Carnegie Institute "bf Tcchilogy, and who Is now connected with the Department ot Geology, Unlverallyof South Dakota, recentThe rigin nd; 
Constitution of Coal^ lit the lecture the public library of Sioux City. Iowa, to the members of tbe idemy of Science end Letters of ibat cityThe lecture was illustrated by lantern slides, many of hlch were taken especially to be _lven In connection with the e* plflnatln of the formation ot coal by. tbe Udllcd Stales.Bureau of 
Mines.
id didPrinceton and Carnegie Tech. He theninugbt In Princeton, the Uni' irsity of Arl2ona and the Uniirslty of South Dakota.
Tbe Varsity Clan held a most icceestul meeting FYldy evening, meeting with several very attraeva features'. In the first place was the dinner, an event which always adds.intorest.toian affftlrvThlswns at'the Crngl .Ino, Woodl^wn avenue. In" tbe faculty room.
Buddy Overend n emarks, touching o 
tnd his proposed ti
calling the meeting, dinner, and all decided success.Officers of the Varsity Clan have been elected for the; year. William I was re-elected president; 
Dwight Beede was chosen vice
licksrhich brings ."back me >nes AJma Mater. One
former, ctasemate/has p formed some laudlbJe -engineer!picks' up tile < phones of ones radio and hears :h delivered by tbe new v
iBldeilng ilei
i magnificent "accidents ot
notice, contributions of this nature will be greatly. appreciated and ill receive prompt attention if dressod to Carnegie Tech Tavin, care of Alumni Editors. Send
PITTSBURGH CLAN 
LUNCHES WEEKLY
First Weekly and Monthly. 
Luncheons Meet With 
Grads Approval
In tbe last week the Pittsburgh Clan held its first weekly Iunche and also Us first monthly luncbe both with considerable success 
The weekly luncheon was held Wednesday at the William Pc cafeteria, with an attendance ot about forty A Carnegie table been reserved, and will be found next the Engineers Socletyy table. The Engineers Society has offered the use of its club rooms, on tU< same floor-as the cafelorla, fo meeting friends and leaving w\aps, both for the weekly and the monthly luncheons'. Any of-of-town alumni visiting in Pittsburgh/ or here on business, are urged to cometo of ihese luncheons If at all pos; in his series When 
a Feller Needs a Frfnd." T smiling sympathy thfe youngst of bis cartoons arouse Is not nearly as justified as the human feeling gradual would have for the poi ?al of a freshman during hi t few days at ttie University... Jrivlng in Ann Arbor he Is cted in a far . less hospitable aner than was ' Columbus, ough the chasms between th
y place to pitch his. tent, no guide help him. In a taxi otnlng from ig midnight train in that crowded rst week a Southern freshman asked to be taken "to the city hotel;" but the impatient taxl.drlvsaid that all hotels were filled id that be would drop the freshon. State Street. Think of it - - igfct No room.
.... ........................................ __ registration is
discouraging, It is nearly Impossible to-And anyoue who will accept the freshman's tultic;mqi . homesick boy'signs his Varae <*nd the. name of his hofne' town ncariy fifty times during resist) and be longs for that home town each time he writes on the card. As he shunted from the Gym to the Recorders Office, from the Athletic Office to the Classification Committee,; the soph-'
monthly luncheoi st week, on Saturday; i the seventeenth floi
wllb/8
[ CLAN NEWS
SCHENECTADY
leetlng will be held on Wednesday, March 23, at the Van C.urler ' Hotel, to further', tbe ' organization  of the ' Schenectady Clan. .Baddy Overend will -be present' to. 
a 'talk''simitar to those be db -bis western trip. Moving es also will be shown. AnoUier guest will be Director Jewett f the College ' ofN Industries. Jimmy Knight bas complete s of the meeting.
inted.The members then'went to tbe pavilion ot tbe Pitt Stadium to see the battle royal between tbe Carand Pitt baskoteers. This X out to' he one of the mo.it thrilling games of the season, and d only by the two point ad____ge enjoyed by Pitt at the finalwhistle. Howeveh the Varsity
PHILADELPHIA
The Philadelphia Clan will hold dinner meeting at the Arcadia Cafe, Cbestnut street, near Broad,. >n Saturday evening, Marph 19, at vhlch time Mr. Overend and DFeclor Jewett of the College of Industries will talk. There will.be vies of the football games with Pitt, New York University, and Notre Dame, Campus Week, and rf the .buildings and Bhops
bo ido by getting in touch with Tilbrook, 1520 Reel Estte Trust Building. The price will be
reeidei
i Parks was ele<
> is due Casey f 1er in which he b l on this board f
 clan expects lo hev< of the kind during rges all varsity.alnm 
at all possible
finally to tell one of bis of interesting anecdotes, and iugbt tho luncheon-to a sue 
ful dose.iw ibat tbe luncheons successfully, instituted, there 
,1ns nothing to be desired but
trlally.
ethea Members of the udent body are urged henever pos
tculty
Secretai^ iJJ1^ "
CHAB1.ESTON. W.
 and make him
made life worth living 'i
this ii-homder the percentage cb sickness is top-heavy..' Dr. Little was a flrst-year man upon the Campus: last year, and he. felt a bond of sympathy for 
Uie . youth who comes from a small school to a vast university. That a disconsolate student cannot enter Into the.splrit of tbe university and absorb-,kn^owledgo requiring tbe undivided attention of a mind, tree of cares was the realization of the president.-. With this in mind he then. determined that somewhere in the factoryiroutine of enrollment there should be an elemebt of; human feelingThe 
Michigan Alumnus.
slble.The first also held. 1 1:00 p. m., o the W.il tendance of about 35. Practically all classes were represented, fror Sprague and Lee, of 09. to Glbsoi and Beede of last year's class. Somoi the others, well known on and about the campus, were Jack Beatty' president of the Pittsburgh Clan, Buddy Overeml, John F. Laboon. Bob Waddell, Processor Hoyer ("physicist), and W. B. Skinkle. Two representatives of Margaret Morrison were present also, anil
tunlty to renew old acquaintances and make new ones with the more rccent graduates. Jack had everyone get up ' and announce their name, class and place of employment, so that everyone knew' everyone. One or two alumni of other cities who were here In the city took advantage of the opportunity to attend tbe lunchcon.In keeping with the orl plans, there were no long spee Brief remarks by Beatty Skinny Skinkle, were followed by an !nter6llng resume by Buddy of his western trip. He : spoke very highly of the Interest which the western clans'take In school affairs, and on the spirit which they showed while he was visiting them. He also spoke of his trip to the east with Director Jewett of. the Industrial School, which be will .begin in
, wlSch ahaaM.be,artleas than' 50 per" cad and" ot greatertban 7& per pnt. The selection should be made on tbe basis of an intelligent scrutiny of the scholastic records 'made during freshman end sophomore years, a nitlny that might well prefer a candidate who bad sbown-brlUIaut romiee In certalb i studies over ne of bis fellows with a .somerbat higher general average made serely of respectable mediocrity. 
Students who ... have failed i competition with their ' fellows .a win promotion into the upper college should receive'certificates 
honorable dlsmlssaL*  They should have' full standing with their: classmates in organizations ini. They should in no way le to feel that they are In disgrace. With suchan arrangeient recognized and understood, any boys and girls not of markedly intellectual bent would no doubt
i.the (Reset
Regular meetings are the third Saturday of i 
7 private dining i Canton Y. M. C. A. 'A
mong our members.Mr. O. C. Heffner has been pronotad by tbe Hoover Company to :hlef Inspector of their main plant located at North Canton.Mr. ond Mrs. yirgil Whitmer inited ell members of tbe clan to a bridge party at tbelr home on Wedesday, February'23. A delightful me was bad by the large number ho attended. Tbe. honors of tbe rening went lo Mrs. O. C. Heffer and Mr. M. W. Hatton.- ' Mr. C. D. Harris, a recent graduate ofCarnegie, is now employed inspector with tbe Timpken Roller Bearing Company.) officers for the'year arc rs: President, VirgilWhltmer; vice president, M. Dowries; secretary, J. P. CI irer, O. C. Heffner.
Several weeks ago, in the Amerl in Art ftellerles, an auction tool place. At the first session, whei
Worker was being disposed ur, i ras notlced by.en observer that tem. fourteen in tbe catalog read Carnegie Tech War Verse; The Soldier's Progress: From the rs of Carnegie Tech Me: Pittsburgh, 1910.The.ding.ctlon -ogressed rapidly :lumber fourteen..
which had bi petlng in the auctl first editions of Bak<
forty ........flfty-o tiny volumes mccessfully
Major Whltnll, tbe ownei
These little books con works of my dear friend Hogan who was a student at Carnegie Tecb at Pittsburgh
Argotl am quite certalnuhat be of tbe great losses that tl try sustained and docs not know about Will you give this book an bonored place on your shelves. Near Shelly and Keats. It belongs there among the yods spirits of light cut off too soon." 1 Francis Hogan attended the Collee of Fine Arts, at Carnegie Iustltute 'of Technology during the years 1916 and'1917. *
tta fRM iu
fcnly'UMwo School and Society.
/ He whosltteth uponthrone, or U. tbe presldentlar chair, bearing tbe complaintsof. tho multitude, bath nothing on him who sltteth.. behind tho wheel of th family car with his wife and daughter in tbe back seatExchange.
Waiter: steak 5" .
; did ji find j
Customer: Just luck.. I hap
pened to' move that small piece of' potato, and there it was."'-
Goodyear Welt System 
4523>ORBES STREET ' 
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
COLUMBUS, i
CONNECTICUT
' Blue Hllla Avenue. Hartford. Sccreiiiry. Kenneth yf. Finlay.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
HARRISDURG 
?t,Slrt,ni'ne#L^<i'p.20% 1Swrelary. F*ank Hlnhberser. Stale of Public Instruction.HUNTISGTON. W. VA.- CJ^IT.^ J. P. Young. 608 . S
ccretat JhnWNST0WN . . HONOXGAHBLA VALLEY.
Buddy also spoke of the Tntercol-. legiat|6 dinner to'be held at the Hotel Schenley, March 30,;at whlcit time a complete demonstration end exposition of talking moving pictures will .be presented through the
id. fain j'wlil 1
s advised toirlyto-Buddy ini of other schools will be present, and wherever this demonstration '.has been gltfen. many, could nob ~be accomv TDodated. Further Inlormatlon may be obtained, fr^m the alumni office.Professor'Hower was-prevailed
.. B. Lowhjtter.
iacPcUry. and 1>aMnr, Wnvn. 
"L. 0ohtt7 Companr, iso Wall' a
SMNfaur Tntanr. Gllmor% 
RU Srtata Traat BnjSl^ 
PnsMiftt. Jote D  Baattv  Can.
WASHIKCTON. . C.
YOUNGSTOWN,
Along wlthrecommenda to adniisslon to college, a tee of Uie Association of slty Erofeesors/recontly presented a proposal for a further selection .within tli^ college. Portions ot the report,referring' to die scheme otdismissal. of und*'*1- 5----as follows:
The committee believes that the less deserving undergraduates can best be eliminated, and that at the. same time an effecth stimulus .can be given to the whole undergraduate bodyv by applying of 'the'sophomore yeai
RAINC0TS FOR WIEN AND WORSEN
Mens! $6.00Color: Gi-y.
Womens, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
red. '
AtsfhassBisBesr asad Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
Hes The Center iof Attraction !
Only by .renting
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
STANLEY-ROWLANOkCLARK'SSTRAND MANOR
LOVES GREATEST 
MISTAKE 
Evelyn Brent - Wm. Powell
Frlday^and Saturday
Jost Cnother Blonde 
tOROouY MCKCIhh 
JCCK MUhuChh
t. W. GRIFFIouS 
Sinews o{ Satan 
CtOhPug MgNJOU 
RICCRtO CORogZ 
CCROh tgMPSogR
FhgSu andltie tgVIh 
JOuN GIhBgRo
hove gm and heave gm 
hOUISg BROOKS 
hCWRgNCg GRCY
WuIhg hONtON ShggPS 
RIN-oIN-oN 
ughgNg COSoghhO
Monday and Tuesday
t. W. GRIFFIouS 
arrows o Satan 
CtOhPug MgNJOU
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET FREE AT TARTA. OFFICE
CCHENLEY
ougCogR 
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager.
Balcony . Afternboni
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MARCH 9 AND 1Alexander Carr
f Potash and Perlmutter" fame, with wonderful cat Edgar Allan WootPsApril Fool
IT**
ON THE STAGE  -. ALLThe Junior Follies
Colorful, and UhusualROBERTS, daiFields Syncopatori
analoii of, competitive Belectloithat indedfor admission. Havingdetermined the'number or. freshmenwhich it Is prepared to recel' 
slty should then anounce that It would admitto the Junior class specifiedsmaller .number. ot sti depts. .The. .committee , has.-. 1
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MARCH 14 AND 15Vera Reynolds
With JULIA FAYE and KENNETH THOMSON InCorporal Kate*'
Parking Spa<NEWS REELSNOVELTY FILMS'
(fi) oOURISoTHIRD CABIN
M1NNEKAHDA 
MINNESOTA The oul* exclusively Tourist
WIN IF REDI AN liners in the world,
DEVONIAN Noother Passengers carried. ( .
. MAJESTIC Worlds largest ship..
LAND Largest and finest ships to AntLAPLAND werp (Belgium).
/' Largest Tourist Third" carriers
CEDRIC to Liverpool (convenient port for'
CELTIC Shakespeare country and English
_  '  Lake District).
DORIC REGINA Largest Tourist Third camera
MEGANTIC over the shoTt, scenic St. lawLAURENTIC rence River route. ^
wiuuTKird Ctbla
. U ttcammatdtd V
WHITE STAR LINE
up (TAI UNI LKYI.ANP tout
^_A_MILUER. Unt.n Trg,t Bu]ldlna Plttjburflh

---------------------------------------------------

 should  - usual-fou<>i1n~pft4iiliiO t tKe Injer Shop:'-JtnWn* Art
kl:bylk
md'GIH
Oakland 
Savings S orust 
Company
Member Federai 
Risrve System
"The Oakland Bank"
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
On the Plaid Scren
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
-verace' BSKET[ BALL SE*SON Is i distinct failure.
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH FOR YOUR DANCE7 
This Coupon and 40c will entitle you to a 60c dinner.* 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:304:00 P. M.
. TRY OUR 36e LUNCH 
Special  Pastries with Fra* ternlty letters for occasions.
ShorallsTeaRoom
371p FORBES STREET x1 Phone Schenley 931B.
LEARN TO DANCE
JacquesSchooL of 
Dancing CRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and. Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday > and Saturday Eveainga. ' Private leBBODB' by appointment._____Mayflower 7891 _______
First Churchof Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue . Sunday. 11 A. M. and 8 P. M.
Church of the Ascension(Episcopal) . V 
Cor. Ellsworth and Neville
Ande Carnele In ard About John Ir good , material, feu!
ntraeted Wtth Penn State it another case of a good s Another pointschools '
on Carnegie's schedule. ' . They never always playedt lot of praise. Thej
10SET0 Pin, W&J EE LIOT S*401F*if TRIANGLE MATCH
tfcedefearis-a UUter pill
) typlal ot the entire i - - usual, W. & J. ws
displayed some brilllai
ch It tbe 1 ir and yet eo far 7s just tough.In spite of our'partisan feelings, Pitt guard, on his basket ball ability, the "entire Tri-State district. But w
basket ball, and We -wouldnt have minded so i much larger, but to come so
e muat-compllmem this Reed. He Is easily tbe best guard la wish hed rnlssed that last
though but four pointThe final half c
n Beta Pi meet In basket b
htra-Mwal League Standings
Alpha Tau Omega.Scobell Hall........PI Kappa Alpha . .
Bota Tbeta PI .. Delta Pht Delta .
1:4EO1:5 5I:VAI
AMERICAN LEAGUE
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Sigma Phi Epsilon - Beta Sigma Rho ..
CENTRAL LEAGUE
- Tbe Pebe ba6ketbU team kept pace with the vanity during Uie past week V-losing: both: games 
played. The first went to Wash* Jeff. 39-34 while the-, second wasdropped to tbe PUt Frosh 75-32. ' . The game with the W and J. FJebes was-played on the gymnaslum court, Tuesday, March 1, at 4:30. before a small but enthusiastic crowd of students. The teabf the gome was the thrilling back made by. the Plobes in durth Quarter. ..At the end of the liiird quarter, (he score stood ; 33-13 In favor of th Vice Presidents. The fourth period found tbe Plebes showing a far superior breud of basketball which brought them within striking distance ot their opponents. Tbe W. and J. lead was a little too great however and the gameended with tbe Plebes oil the short .end of a 39-34 score.' It would bp'difficult I lect any particular star for Plebes though Bond did som cellent playing. Crohloss, a mer Carnegie student, featured for the Vice Presidents.Last Friday In the Stadium gym, tbe Plebes were toi'ced to' accept defeat for a third time at tho bands of the PHt Frosh. Because ot the flgbt shown by the Plebee in  tbelr previous oncounter,
buj. this Tailed to materialize. The Plebes played hard but were n< 
match lor their-opponents. It wui too much Hyatt and Cobea-iron start to finish. This victory ovei the Plebes permits the F^rosh t< end their season without loBlng e
Pitt75.Hyatt ......Zehfuss .. Cohen ....Moritz __Ashbaugh . Referee
PLAID CAGERSCL06E SEASON' WITH DEFEAT
ught >The star lead for the uet be broken up into tw for Amans and AVhlte, th< dates, .did equally as well. -White   Plaid pointsihJle Amacs 
both players displayed a fighting spirit which was hard to beat. The intire team played well,, and all
The past week witness tyi'a Der oi good games in . the mural basketbai league:
ScobcH Hall chalked up another victory In defeating' Sigma Alpbi 
Epsilon, by 10 points, In a rough but rather^slow game: Scobellwas out of form, although Muse Donohoo and Rlvett. the dormt triple stare, did some excellent playing. The S. A. E'e. have  basket shooting star la "Lobr,1 who* shot sis field goals from the middle of tbe ftoor, eeemlng unable to miss the ring.' From, all nPpearances It is going to be eomo game when Scobell runs up agaln5t i.,T. O's. as both teams have 
been undefeated so far.
The Pi Kappa AlphQs redeemed themselves by debating Woodlawn Club. PI Kappa Alpha was ahead from the beginning and showed much better form than in thejr unlucky encounter with Scobell. McCandless and Munro were' PI Kappa Alpha's outstanding players, with Bassett leading the scoring for Woodlawn. Acacia forfelled their game to Alpha Tau Omega because of non-nppearauce.In' the Federal League Delta Tau Delta suffered their first defeat, at the hands of Sigma Phi Epellon. Both teams were playing pporly, whole game was rough and
shoving. Dlffiey" showed none >f the ability which enabled him o perform so remarkably last
In the Central Leagu Hall defeated. Alpha Slgm cise encounter. Tbe s<
interest waxes nigh ovoi triangular prone match be the varsity, tho plebes, end the womens riffle teams' as the second week of thounatch advances. 
The eight -highest scores ot the first week are lo count for'each 
team. Each participant . ls< a lowed 10 shots making the hlghoi
bost shots but since the plebes andthe women havo' had'more prac tlce in prose shooting, all hav about an equal chance. The vat slty has & better team than it hai bad for several years.. Howeve: tho plobes have bad .a most sue cessful seaeon, while the womeo'i which has been In eileteuco only*two years, has been practically undefeated this season. Consequently competition is keen.
Tho 'varsity A .leading la Uie .first week's shooting, with their light high scores totaling them 94 points. Tbe plebes are nc behind, having a score of 791, while
MUSIC STUDENTS TOGIVE RECITAL MAR.
(Continued From Page One.) tasters as Schubert, Handol, rahms. .Mozart and Beethoven, ho are commonly known as thoI
 most Tamed and most prollflo of the -muglc writers or all times. Tbe Hungarian Rhapsody, by Liszt, is
them desen
MORb CORONAS ARE USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before the days of Corona
ten by thing Is find CorIn thetoday., thi fir makes of pori bined. Corne In and d<
last
typewritten. Youll nas at work In every In the world. More . than all portables
Is the \ portable typeItem. .Standard' four-row I, wide carriage," yard ribbonmore
ier portable, nly $60.00.,, We also7 .have ni bargain? in used Coroa as low aa $25.00. ' -
ANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY '
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
i Cliff Restaurant
927 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Near Forbes 
Try our Special Lunches40o Special Rates To Students
REGAL Direct 
University Service 
from Coast to Coast
l2
Come in and look over the. new Regal -line of special college models. Thcy are : recognized asi^e standard'
The Shoe illustrated is the Ellan English Brogue in Genuinelmported Tan Heather Grain. The single.holeperfdratioha'Greanew'
style Fcaturealeo in Blacks. ;.t; , . ,'
n FittingServtoe veecf ezo/eiaipe/y.
REGALSHOES
l efty.iGarvlovUcb. I believe tbat iarUcaidsthebrath"''Verlly-.you ,ate; rlght. :my Halitosis, It makes It good : and strong."D. ot S. California .WarnCampbell was highest scorer for irnegie, but tlie' other scores ere grouped close torils. Porter id the highest' scorefor . the eek, but It did npt count for the atch because he' had not been on the first ten, from which .-the five htghaTe picked.This match consisted of IhTee osltloos: Prone, kneeling, and
1398. Carnegie'
. Fisher, G. \V.................. 278
Total ........................1408The plebe team also *won their latch during the same week, 'hey defeated the University of
with bo.th'po t}ie/flrst time tills seasou 
that such a 'score has been made.' Kasehagen lost ..his position of high scorer, which he lias Iield in rery .match preceding.This year 
: 'DISCLOSED
that they may be of value In tlic consideration of various, suggested plans tor succeeding rushing sea s^n6. As a further aid to this end it was moved at the meeting oi Saturday morning to offer a petl tlon to the Executive Board, pre sentlng the viewpoints and plane or the Inter-Fraternity Council or
ived t:onjunctlon wit >uld make i
d and to the Inferior points of present* deferred rushing pro-, m. Uie reports to be submitted he rushing rules committee.t the ieting 1i Tarbell rMewd the origination of the Iaa -being idommendation' ot Colonel Day, rmer Deah of FreBbmen, in tbe hopeUiat lt would ^ld.in bridging between the high school ind that of the college ean Tarbell then recommended ,'that. the-present plan be ;tended thru' this second semesr. Before closing the meeting, was unofficially recommended
i Nov
The t charge R. Von
Lippert has'ever., had auy experlj after March 11 i at rlfie-'Bbootlng, out for. the team until after of Women. 
:ral matches had . beei With ' his natural abjlity. and a GEN.-Alittle coaching from. one of thevarsitymen who; induced himto earn, he' has de
veloped Into a good rifle' ski
'.ContinuedFrom Page One) ceedingly entertaining. The proira begins at elght-fitteen o'clock d concludes before tea.tome concert dance is In of R. S. Boyd, chairman; 
Ende and Sidney^ Gould Warner. This committee Is'spending time, effort, and money In t preparation of a dance that v win the hearty approval of < 'most critical persons. The dai will begin at '0:30 and continue until 1 a. m. The price-of .adi sion to-the dance will be $1.50.For the .convenience of those who wish toattend both eventi combination ticket has been c vlded, the, price of which is $3. 
This ticket entitles the holder two seats at the boihe concert 1 admission ' to the dance in 2 Union. Tickets will be 011 a
the exhlbltli
tlly beatCamegli tneir foul shooting, getting points out of a possible 16 tries.as rough as Itouldisldei
ilsconstrued and called
in five enjoyed the 1 large student group, aleJy the cheer/eadWrobleski . Rlhnek ....Reed ..........Llssfelt (C).
istitutlons: PittFisher for
Llssfelt, Llssfelt for Rhnek, Rilanek' fbr Lisafeit, Hoban for
robleslti 2, Reed &. lans 6, White, 5, H Lyncb, Hurd.Fouls: PittKowalll; Wrobleskl,. 4 out of 7 out of 6; Llssfelt, 1 TechWhite, 3 .out of 4; of-3; Lynch, 2 out c cf siin foulsPitt, 13 
Time of periods20 n RefereeBeggs Snyde UmpireWelt2el.
McGill shooting the two winnln iBkels. "Iaacco continued b :collent ploying for McGill. Henirson Hall lost to Wolch in close game. Henderson lead tho half but were outplayed in t third quarter, despite tbe efforts Henderson's leadingplayer.
imeB have dates cwl their conflict with varsity games. Tho ulrlng. of additional reforeei Is under consideration; this would iable^the postponed games played'off sooner, thereby causing i whole league to operate loother and with, lees break)]Of the schedule.The leaders, namely/ Scobi Hall. Alpha Tau Omega, Delta UpslSigma Nu, Kappa Sigma, ha' forged ahead In their respoctl' leagues. Several good games a scheduled for this week,includli the PI Kappa Alpha, Alpha Ti Omega and Phi Kappa, Beta Tbeta
It' : the lai
each year to the winner of the whole leagfle. Buckley" of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, h chairman of the committee to purchnse a suitable cup. It has not decldcd whether peja-anlsinlleriTded twlnm
WEEKS SCORES
National Le: Kappa Alpha Woodlawn Club Scobell HailSigma* Alpha Epe Alpha Tau Omega..
Sigma Phi Epsilon..
Welch Hall ............Henderson Hall
i WEEKS 6CHEDULE
Scobell Hall vs (7:30) (1).Hall vs.  (7:30) (2).Kappa Sigma HI (8:30) (1). Beta Thta Ph <S:30) (2).
Woodlawn Club
Wcdn<
:. Alpha
Carnegie 984 
out'Of a possible 1000; Cincinnati 
U. 976. tIndividual scores were: 
Lippert2. Martin3. . Kasehagi
5. Stafford'
SSE^IBLY 11:45 TODA
. 197
194
984
' (Continued from Paga One) ^ the program, that; it vili be complete in 46 minutes, -r In. '.this, respect  It . Will - conform'; to plans ^hlch .have'been followed out this year. All programs/save one have ended wlthln the bour this term. .
TotalUlmer    ,13*-The Carnegie1 R.' 0.' T. C. team on their four poBltlon match, with Connecticut Agricultural Co.llege by the acore. of 1903 to 1813 out poeelble 2000.
ndels Messiah^'  has . .been . each year for 1 y^rs. at: 
the University of Nebraska.
(Contlnned>From Page One) '. given In-the Carnegie Unin, each discussion, slated for 8:90.' Invad: dltlon. tb^ fourth annual Beries of public lectures on, chemicalenglneeHng b^lng presented lo co-the -iclatloi
COMPUTE DORMITORYSCHOLARSHIP RATINGS
(Continued From Page OnElm.6. Laurel Hall ...............6., Hawthorne Hall..........7. Magnolia Hall ........8. Maple Hall .............9. Spruce Hall ..........10. Sycamore Hall ...........11. Cypress Hall ...............12. Linden Hall ................13. Oak Hall ..................... 3.15614. ' Walnut Hall ..............., 3.160The computation of the riorini-tory-scholarshlpends the statistical determination ot the first semest
ers scholarship for 'such campus
les.
The
. actlvi
irisoratories _placed nrst in the scholarship -. competition with an average of 3.60 P. Q.; 
the active .members -of the -men's fraternities follow .cloBely .fwlth 9.61 p.. Q. . Th. 'mens' dormitories are third; with 3,36 P. Q's. while the freshmen class averaged'2.27.P. Q. and freslinien pledGeB .3.25 P: Q.
.(Continued from panfe One) committee -promises a good one. The-Seniors desiring to'make a success of this affatr. have asked suggestions concerningv - Manufaclur [ phase of . the ball. Any sugges-s wUJ.;be continued.during MarchKumi'turned ln ^lli be considered th.a lecture scheduled for each>| by-tlie committee and -acted upon ida? alghL. * accordingly. ~
Omega (7:30) (!)
Beta (Sigma Rlrp vs. Signi psilon (8:30) (2).Thuratfay, March 10.
well-know
Thon, iBeethoven'B MOAi omc of the mo9t beautiful works of Its type: .Tbls recital will be followed by another on Sunday evening, April 3, at the Littlo Theater, tbe program of which will appear later.
ADVANCE STANDINGSTUDENTS TRANSFERFROM 117 COLLEGES
Msed in an -effort to facilitato tbe :oming ot these Btudents. In forvery dfs'ho com-_ ......... Althoughtheee students re boing encouraged it isrequired that they bavo a good record before they are alMsyflovrer ?21i
FLOYD M. JACOBS
3606/2 FORBES STREET. 
Oakland . Pittsburgh, PaAround the Corner from 
Forbes Field"
beseht J derivad.
FRANK BROTHERS_;fifiJiv;r<iocBoolSliij
Jenklne Arcade,. Pittsburgh
MA HE IV 5 OF POWDERS SINCE
FACILITIES
Thot Assure Satisfaction 
Merely assembling nutcriJs and put* ting tne machinery to work for manufaciunoc explosives is compuativdy easy. O;YHY42 to produce, out of hund, those utaonble and wholly in* dispcoiabic. facilities repnseotiDg the consunt eflbidoi ttmy-ycars, is a most difficult accompliJhrncntThe exptficoces acquired, in a etntuiy and a Quarter of explosive niaoufwturlog and the observatioos of explosives cipctts have provided -the du Pont
plosives. With its plants strategically' located and suffidentptoduciion assured, J-i PontcTO/osivcs can be specified with 1 tire omndence os to prompt deliveries J "iiij/aaoty paionnaaco.iiRn Kiodbeok" li :: tuiharit*iipimt
SCfffii
125 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP 
IN THE SERVICE OF INDUSTRY
We Have Learned That it is* Better to Use x
Kissel Sidles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions
THREE STATIONS .6107 Broad Street 556 Sixth AvenueHlland 1300 - Grant 1.900
, 125 Seventh Street Student Passes Issued fitAtiantlo 4666 - . Tartan Office
. Della Phi Delta
WOMEN'S SENIOR BALL WILL BE HELD MAR. V,AT. THE WEBSTER HALL
Life ot Paris and the Night Club: ot New York, a l Cabaret style This idea Is new and novel, ant being out oi the beaten path should quite an Innovation, 
following guests have becu 1 lo attend the Senior ball: Doctor T. S. Baker, Dean ' Mary Weston Greeu, Dean and Mrs. ArTarbell, Hllss'Mary B. Breed, 
Edith Winchester and Mister Glendinning Keeble. ' Invitations 
5O the following chaperons: Mr. and Mrs.- Kirl^
Tickets'for tbe WoTnens,Senior Sail are. now' on sale and may be ibtalne'd from any of the commltee members or departmental repesentatlvee In tbe College of Pine Irts and Margaret Morrison.
(Continued on Page Four.> 
eral other periods are. 'under usfllon. however, and these 1 be outlined in future issues Of the Tartan in an effort to And :tho consensus of campua opinion.
[Greup vocUtg disk* i Mil* tabls}
Camel is its own reason for success
( THERE is just one^reasou why Camels are rolled of such choice 
Camel is the most popular smoke - tobaccos, are so skilfully blended
ift all th worldwhy it leads in ' that there simply can be 00 better 
' favor all cigarettes of all time. cigarette made.
It is the one cigarette that will And that stands, regardless of 
stand up all day and as far into the the price you pay.' 
night as you care to go. You can If you want die choice of the .
- smoke one or a million in daylight worlds gupgripnrwf gninlt^> the. 
or dark and Camels -will never tire mellowest nu'Mnw that ever
your taste or leave a cigaretty from a cigarette__ <
after-tastp. "Have a Camel!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N, C.

---------------------------------------------------

3fr&N0t2ttlll
ROKI aUTTLDVn a
tassasse
..Sim WeQNew* Editor........................................Francis KlnAthletic Editor........... .........-Frederick D. Woods
 COTIUBUTIW EDITORS -
llanor TalJmadg* Robert M. Few 'Roudl Bgillogv 'Harold JacobsonRalph Bltduodc Barto GrlfflssA A naher . - Eugene Scanlonff. Bernard
JUNIOR EDITORS V HeredlUi Staav Htfflton CohenFenton FinnALUMNI EDITORS V'Jean Roy
Margaret Bussell  'Herbert'Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine ClarkJohn Schneider REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Young * Clyde ParkJoseph G. Ritter Miriam Msrgolts W. Henderson . Catharine Boyd
William McNeil Helen Whitehlll i Katharine O'DonnellThomas LJppert
Circulation. Manager..............................B. SupowitzAdvertising Manager..............'....Shelby McMlllion
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Noble
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
U Sacta G. W. Brahmat J. R. Brow
TftcK-Sfifljfie Imwms}
To think one thing and rite another happens every day, especially in the' case of virtuous people. So wrote Theophlle. Gautier In the famous preface to his mas* terplece, and went oa, for 60 pages or more, to teliwby he. for one, did not dp things in that -way.
He succeeded better than  one mightJxavfi.,e3^ectedrrrhemostcertainly justified his thesis to himseir. msde it sound incontrovertible to those who believed in it anyway, plausible to those not comiltted for or against it, and interring, at least, to everybody. Of jurse an author, does not go to that length to demonstrate how Illy it is to be virtuous unless he a a little uneasy about the ma But bow fortunate that he ly, and wrote bis preface e most delectable thing of its -almost ae good as the z kes so many delightful
flowers, parties thoend of dipping
They 1
and little bine the water with scarf or a-white'hand 
the current..... .long md long laughter.and their of beautiful .things 
isver surfeits anyono but er. Their adventures are iutely in a glamourous i a gleaming shower of 
beantlfal words. If all believers Art for Art's sake could write as well as this, there would no looger be any need of arguing the matternor would there be anyone to argue it with. The Utilitarians would all be too busy trying to produce something to matbh the achievements of their rivals, and It cannot be denied that they would have a busy time of It.
Hiking, he stated,'Mhas always been one of my hobbles, and I ralit that my good physical condition has been the result of It.. I am Intending to.tak.a.2.000-mlte 
hike neit summer. Would you' be
lieve It, hotthe first carfare Kpald this winter was only a lew-days ago when a pressing engagement kept me-from walking and I was .forced, to:take-a; car.
Peope shftiild all go netted!. We have become slaves, to clothes: the sunshine, which is so bene* flclal, does not get to our bodies.It is evident from this strikJn that Mr. Aidrltch b< lleves in what the Germans cal iachukultuje". a. movement that' lately'arisen in Germany ti an' mpt to promulgate the theo
ries that were once exposed in the Garden of Eden.
This Is a for blch, according to the Egyptologists, was taught as early as the fourth century a C. by Akhen r King Tut's cousins. 
Scientists call this "heliotherapy*.it Is not based on fundamental biological or. physiological grounds, but solely as an application of the principle of dlsinSal1 have never rambked, chewed,, or I ever  been a booxe-houad.I have never tasted coffee nor tea, and believe that the road to health intalnjng a strict vegetarian diet. Which goes to .show that he has all the qualificationsof becoming a-,candidate-, for being .a second Krishnannurtl bat on :accouut of his. Santa C^jis; appearance would be .a better-candidate'for. BentonHarbor, and when, asked. 11 he had over heard of this cult called "The House or David he professed that he believed partly In their doc
trine. - > .
' Watt Whitman haa written of the "eaQUisIte realization of .health;., it appears that Mr. 
Aldritch has attained the satlstac* tlon of realizing . the value of health by his abstemious behaviour......................And he agrees with the poet itho also said, "If any .thing is sacred, 
the human body is sacredand the glory and sweet of a man, is the token of manhood untainted.
j automobile victim): ou didnt see the license Could yon swear to
H. L. Marshall C. E. Blas M. MollnickG. C. Harblsonuntque.
Offlm TTnnm 12. Industriel Bnlldlne. Office Hem Monday ID Ibnndim 12tSM i0 . Paptr. nada .up Friday, lZi80-e:00, TVInnua publication on die eoeteedlug Tnralv, Item*east be Id tl elajdcnl pent office or Tartu Office baton 4:30
First Cat: That result comes because the 
Seniors and Jnniors themselves set the example 
to the underclassmen, and in that one .instance 
actually come to Assembly without compulsion 
on the part of the class presidents.
Second Cat:. Oh, no, the Seniors are so sor
ry to leave, and the Juniors to sec them march. , ine out to soft music, leaving their offices b&- the trend of a series of editorials t^em
And there
EDITOR'S NOTE
various schools in the light of the editor1 
comments of a month ago, in this column. Mar
garet Morrison students contributed todays 
copy; next week the writer will be an Indus
tries school man. ,
THE CATS WILL MEW
another 
L which 
at the end of every Spring
-written by students of the various Carnegie
S ^atacss^Thi11elecUonVoffice 
descends upon 
semester.Second Cat: My dear, what possibly can 
you 4ud to object to in olir mild little elec
tions? No harm done anyone. Just a ccrtain 
group of representative and well-meaning girls, 
with the welfare of their.school, seriously at 
. . ~ . ,, ... ^ heart, thoughtfully nominate themselves, voteFust Cat: What trouble with Margaret for themselves, on<l inaugurate themselves. It
m=ont fl.,t be poss.ble among such is the erne of efficiency. And everybody is
j , . j .. .. . just lovely about it all.'dear, do not doubt that ri,..
THE PRESIDENT 
VETOES FARM 
RELIEF BILL
Effects in His Chances of 
Renomination in Next 
Convention
ARGUMENTS SOUND
Morrisonf Could that be possible among such 
pinked-up -.perfection}
Second Cat
there is trouble. The good die young and the 
perfect younger; you know that.
First Cat: Oh, 60 that explains the increas 
ing enrollment in this our Alma Mater.my. dear ?
First Cot: ,My of course.Second Cat: Yes, the dcfects of Margaret ]jut it doesnt.'give a'chnnce to the far greater 
Morrison have becomc in such' bad odor that majority to develop, to find out their 
they have reached the sensitive nose of Ye Ediejbilities, their limits and their values. From 
tor reclining on his tiger, skin and searching the very beginning of their college carcers, 
for inspiration. they accustom themselves to the leadership ofFirat Cat: But not of Margaret Morrison a clique whom they may know only by sight, 
alone, my darling He i6 equally offended by or ^jth whosenames alone they may be fnniithe otheithree colleges. iiar. In a school os small as ours, you would be
Second Cat: But this week it is our turn to surprised to seehow little the girls know each 
go "under the searchlight. Witness.what he other.- The majority submit passivelv to the 
has wntten in general of the four: There leadership of the group tliat once in has diswas present here a certain mediocrity of standtinctly the advantage of -experience, 
a.rds, :a great deal of smoke !but.a very little . Second Cat: But-why. not let those who 
fire; in short that Carnegie.is grooved into a were bright enough and willing enough to run 
traditional campus existence that is perfuncf0T office in the first place keep on i To the 
tory and crude/ victor the spoils; why not?
First Cat: My dear! All of that? First Cat: My dear, to do so is to permit
Second Cat: He does not doubt it. Nor for aouble wrong. .You deprive others of i,ic . 
that matter do I. There are defects, plenty rightful chance of displaying themselves in o9iof them; people who take advantage of being cjQi gear. And you arbitrarily take wav from 
in a woman's college to let their hair grow, your leaders, 'whom you have often thoughtpeople who clutter up the bulletin boards with ]essiy elected to a string of impoTtafit positions 
Lost-my-Joy-and-Pride!" notices, people who yOU take away from them their precious leiscant forget that they once weut to finishing ure time> until they become hollow-eyed with 
schools, people who , , frantic attempts to reconcilc studies with their
First Cat: .Oh, no, Im sure thats not outside activities, and to find time for the 
what he me&nt at all. Let me see. Oooh, I books' and little things that give them 
taow. recreation. Its wrong that they should have
Second Cat: Yes? What do you, know, so little leisure when others, just as capable but 
dear?
First Cat: . Traditions!
Second Cat: Darling, what axe they?
First Cat: Oh, you know. Everyone docs
They are the thou-shalts of the 
pus. All campuses have them; otherwise a 
campus is merely a wood'lot.
Second Cat: I understand you. .Isn't it 
this way? -Traditions are rooted deep in the 
background of the college. Why, some of ours 
are even four years, old.
First Cat: . Do you remember the class teas
They are not forced into their
positions.First Cat : Not actually, but there is bound 
to be some.recrimination when the only person 
trained to hold a certaia office tries to refuse 
it. . The trouble lies in the lack of enough 
properly trained leaders. Wc pyrai 
offices on the same people.
Second Cat: I supposq, my dear, that like 
all good hypothcsists, you have your remedy?
First Cat: So nicc of you to ask me. Yes,
went to as Plebes, those know-thy-ifeighbor I have. I propose that class elections be held 
gatherings wherer.'   every semester and that no deportment be rep'Second.Cat: Where wc met all those upperresented by more .than two students. Class 
classmen who never spoke to us again on the elections are sometimes the' victory ofone dccamputf'? * parlment or dormitory over another, you know'.
First Cat: And, my.dear, do you rememSecond Cat: No doubt you will cut out any 
ber the last Color Day Assembly where the amount of good leaders by yout* shut-out rule. 
Freshmen fat giggling through a so-callcd imFirst Cat: There is nothing to prevent them
prcssive *
Second Cat: You can*t blame the Plebes 
for lacking the proper attitude toward tradi
tions if, the upper classes dont themselves ex
hibit if.v.Scnior Assembly is the one exception; 
there we have something like a true and dignified eoHegc atmosphere, for Margaret Morrison 
an. atmosphere-both stimulating and rather
from being elected the following time, if they 
are really worthy. My plan would giv 
chance to find out the capabilities of double the 
number of .people, and would allow for that 
much more development ih the individuals.
Second Cat: My dearto what office maj 
nominate and vote you in this Spring?
 .  F. C. M.-J. M. C.
JKIi
CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our Refreshment 
Entertainment is most desirable for Fraternity and 
all .other School Affairs, 
experience will convince.Small orders, receive the same careful attention as re extravagant
DOES THE COLLEGE
LIT." FUNCTION?
lagazlae Is
Mr. Hopwood ofordini the Cleveland similar view' is Dally, where auf 'e are Ja danger
indergraduate. If dy lost it.
indla*(lops that tils underi Is not yet In the least dead. In fact, a recent reviewer of the' Harvard Advocate flnd3 that.even from the point of view of the suspicious average reader' the stories are good, the articles worthy of'professional magazines, and tlie poetry creditable.The gerieral attempt among tiie stu'dent-edltors of these publications Is to lteep .the standard of worth' and originality high., .And this Is well, because ;it Is probably true that there are those outsiders who Judge a college by Ite Lll as othera. Judge it by Its tooihan team. Another reviewer b'eileves.coUege publications. Interpret, the undergraduate mind'and touch college life at more points than any other agency.The college news and the college humor magazines, have their functions and their reward, but the function of the Lie la a harder one and  the reward  possibly a
) furrworkresident Coolidge vetoed the Nary-Haugen farm relief bill It s. generally ., expectedthathe uld follow this course of action, he had stated repeatedly tbat> the provlsloiif the. bill. I vas not sufficient strength behind the bill to pass it over the Presi-mtlal veto.The Presidents veto messuge
arguments against the bill. The :hief reasons for his veto were:1. It is unconstitutional . because tho President's power of Appointment Is limited In the mater of selection of a Farm Board."2. It is unconstitutional ^be:ause of Its discriminating tasaecedented and horrifying ' bu
Thep President further critl elzed the bill In detail because pro tectlon was provided for certali termers, those who were engagec In the'oductlo: swine, toba.of hogs, c(
and other farmers, producing such lOdlties as rye, barley, flax oats and dairy products, were not protected by the bill.There Is no doubt but that the President was Quite, justified In vetoing the bill, and be,has been heartily congratulated by^many ot the people opoaed to the messur As a result of his action, he hi gained additional favor la tl East, but has lost heavily in the WesL It Is felt that his chan of a third term are seriously fected, because there Is virtually no possibility that he will be able to carry the delegates represent ing the farm bloc In the next con
The backers of the McNary-Haugen bill claim that the President violated a pledge made at the time of his last campaign, a pledge which was embodied In a singleparagraph of the platform. Thla paragraph reads:- Republican Party .pledges itsc the development and enactme hlcli will placegrlcultural 1 . basis of <TllC (lallty with e Us prostlty for literary work after col* e. As the Yale Dally .venurks an editorial entitled A Nut
TlC( the college roust supjjly our ire authors as it has our. best s in the past It must not neg: this duty, and the "Lit" pubfirst *i definitely further this
other Induslrh parity and su<Whatever the effect of the vet may be on President Coolidge am his third term aspirations, on cannot but breathe a sigh of relie that he stood his ground. His hi gumeuts against the bill re sound for It is hard to see how the bil would have prevented overprodic tlon in those commodities with which the bill dealt
of economic conditions have arisen since the war; ie cure is not to .ils .the it which farm products'are and encourage Ificrcased Ion of these commodities, mlt would almost certainly ; the last condition of the , would be worse than tli
BARTOW QRlPPISSr
and by creating a live interest In literature.
We are. not seriously concerned 
that there Is a dearth ot undergrad
uate poets who can write other 
than too-free verse, or that In essay 
Itlng a lllpptline feellm1 (bat the
erely old-fashioned ed with modernistic mere stagestechulque. These arc through which tiie wi Umies to write, will
concerned that, tyj tliifely.
Advocate reviewer puts It, the spirit of the literary magazines la one of "gentlemanly youngsters Interested In letters, learning to write more than passably we^t. In suchspirit we bellev< the cotlege Lit1 tlon.P. A. D.
it is possible for to fulfill its fune. If American colleges could out the reasons for the fallu -the large proportion of 6tu who enter, and could manat -admit only those who would through to the end,- a tremendouswastage would be avoided__Of course <rveryone knows that
1 dlscov: his effoitho return.'be should sweetly and definitely' turn his back on the college prepare, himself for his life work In a manner adapted to his mlf and temperament. Like. many disappointing experience, it shov be looked at not'as a failure,.b as a discovery? .an unwelcome d covery perhaps, but . one. from whichthere, is no appeal.Dean 
Hawkes, Columbia University. v 
campus last week. White whiskers, ive taken the plo poetical platitudes
4I
JS o
TX1
i** o*
lT ais M8'-
T0BA.CC0S A3 
KBOfl-A GOOD
sm oke 
5HB
^0B 
ja
3 LOBO
One man fells another
