8 October 2001TARTAN
WEDNESDAY
Hi 68/Lo 49
THURSDAY
Hi 69/Lo 47
FRIDAY
Hi 67/Lo 47
Job market dreary for 
CMU graduates, seniors
norm. Seth Mandel, who graduated in August 2001 with bachelor and graduate degrees in information 
systems, considers himself lucky to 
be working for Deloitte Consulting. 
When my classmates and I were 
applying for jobs, it seemed as if the prospects were limitless. It was 
with great pleasure that students 
spoke about their large salaries, signing bonuses, and stock options. Unfortunately, that pleasure has 
turned to disappointment and even anger as these same individuals talk 
about the uncertainty of their start 
dates and severance packages. 
Ultimately, the rise of the dot-com companies raised expectations to 
unreasonable standards that their 
recent demise could not undo.
A widespread mood of pessimism 
seems prevalent among seniors and 
recent graduates, many of whom seem to have job horror stories 
ready to tell. Many of my former
See JOBS, page A3
by Justin Ker
Junior Staffwriter
My heart is in the work, but how 
do I now find work? That question seems to be the dominant concern among seniors and recent gradu
ates of CMU. Anecdotal advice from friends and classmates who have passed the rite into working adult
hood blurs the true picture of the 
current job market, although one sentiment among students is clear: 
I am mad at my parents for not giv
ing birth to me earlier.Indeed, the employment outlook 
for the past year has been 
depressed, but only when com
pared to the stratospheric heights 
which the era of the Internet com
panies ushered in. In those bygone halcyon days, huge sign-on bonus
es, stock options, and the company 
cars with ten-disc changers, were 
once perks which became the
KABUL, Afghanistan (AP)  Missiles and warplanes streaked through the Afghan night and rocked at least three cities in a US-British attack on Osama bin Laden and his Taliban backers Sunday. Bin Laden and the Talibans leader both survived, Taliban officials said.The strike began after nightfall Sunday in Kabul with five blasts followed by the sounds of anti-aircraft fire. Electricity was shut off throughout the city for more than two hours afterward.The attack also targeted the heart of the Taliban movement, hitting the military headquarters and home of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar in the southern city of Kandahar, according to Afghan sources reached by telephone from Islamabad, Pakistan.The sources said the first wave struck the Kandahar airport, destroying radar facilities and the control tower. The strike also targeted hundreds of housing units built for memSee STRIKES, page A4
Associated Press
Fighter jets leave USS Carl Vinson in the Arabian Sea on Sunday for airstrikes against terrorists in Afghanistan.Six alumni dead or missing in Pentagon, WTC terrorist acts
working as a specialist in bank 
stocks at Sandler ONeill. 
Kirkpatrick referred to Linton as a 
very serious, very focused stu
dent who was intellectual and 
eager to assist his colleagues. 
Linton and a group of fellow stu
dents took second place in a busi
ness simulation competition held 
two years ago at the University of 
Texas at Austin. Lintons younger 
sister also graduated from 
Carnegie Mellon in 1999.
The victims were not the only 
Carnegie Mellon alumni working 
in the buildings that were affected 
by the attacks. Twenty-two 
Carnegie Mellon alumni worked 
in the World Trade Center and fifteen worked at the Pentagon. 
However, these numbers may be 
low, as some students may have 
not given their work addresses to
by Sonni Abatta
Junior Staffwriter
The September 11 terrorists 
may have focused on New York 
City and Washington, DC as they 
destroyed the World Trade Center 
and portions of the Pentagon, but 
the effects of the fallout is being 
felt worldwideeven locally, here 
on the Carnegie Mellon campus. 
According to the Alumni 
Association, six CMU alumni have 
been pronounced either dead or 
missing as a result of the attacks. 
Fred Kuo, Jr. (E 69) died in the 
World Trade Center, Norma Lang 
Steurle (HS 69) died on the plane 
that crashed into the Pentagon, 
and four others are listed as miss
ing from the World Trade Center 
 Jonathan Uman (IM 90), 
Lawrence Kim (HSS 97), Alan Linton (IM 97), and Matt Yarnell
U.S.-led alliance strikes back
Missiles and warplanes tilled the Afghan sky Sunday evening in a 
U.S.-Bfitish attack on Taliban and al-Qaida installations. Sources 
reported explosions in at least three cities. The Alghan northern 
alliance also launched an attack on Taliban forces near Kabul.
UZBEKISTANCHINA
Dushanbe
TAJIKISTAN
Termez
/Mazar-e f Sharif* 
troas controlled by the 
northern alliance
TURKM.StrikesFeyzabad
> Herat >~! ~<
Kabul 'if 
Reports of
AFGHANISTAN explosions 
near /
 Farah airport fExplosions heard 
near Farmada, a 
bln Laden 
training camp
Quetta o isoknv PAKISTAN . 2^' 1N 01
Kandahar
Taliban military 
headquarters, 
airport and a.Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
Current seniors and recent graduates face the arduous task of obtaining jobs 
in a slumping economy.Associated Press
Supercomputing Center implements fastest unclassified research system
groups successful fulfillment of an 
October 1, 2001, deadline.
This is something that was 
done essentially as a service to the national research community, 
said Michael Levine, a professor of 
physics at CMU and a scientific 
director of PSC. Among other 
things, the system will be used for 
modeling protein genomics, global 
climate change, and even earth
quakes. The benefits may appear 
later in improved drug therapies, 
more fuel-efficient engines, and 
greater understanding of the basic
processes of nature.The TCSs less powerful little
brother, TCSinit has been in 
operation since December. 
TCSinit, which has only 256 
processors, was constructed as a 
trial run of the TCS technologies. 
According to Ralph Roskies, a sciSee COMPUTING, page A5
over 9,000 pounds of cable con
nect 750 Compaq AlphaServer 
machines, each with four proces
sors. Twelve 30-ton air-handling 
units control the huge amounts of 
heat generated by the installation. 
The system provides an estimated 
computational power of six trillion 
operations per second, or six teraflops.The TCS was designed by the Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center (PSC) through a 45 million-dollar grant from the National 
Science Foundation. The research 
group, which was founded in 
1986, represents a joint effort of 
Carnegie Mellon University and 
the University of Pittsburgh. 
PSCs success in deploying this 
unprecedented, very large-scale 
system right on time is a fine 
achievement, said President Jared Cohon, referring to the
can be seen on campus. Interest 
seems to have increased or stayed 
the same, said Mergner. She 
believes the reasons for the 
increased interest in studying 
abroad may be attributed to a stu
dent desire to get out of the US 
and to increase global under
standing.
Marian St. Onge, director of the 
international program at Boston 
College, reported that the Study 
Abroad Fair held at her campus 
on September 19 had high atten
dance, indicating that students 
are not afraid to go abroad 
despite the recent terrorist 
attacks. St. Onge was surprised
by the fact that interest in study
ing abroad had not declined as a 
result of the attacks. What we 
have is a lot of parents and stu
dents asking about their [study 
abroad] options, said St. Onge.
Anusha Krishnakumar, a junior 
ECE and economics major, is one 
student continuing with her plans 
to study abroad. She said that 
because of the events of September 11, I would definitely 
feel safer being abroad. Patricia 
Nowoslawski, a junior business 
administration major, also plans 
to study abroad despite the tragedy, because she feels 
See ABROAD, page A3
by Sinduja Srinivasan
Junior Staffwriter
by Colin McCabe
Junior Staffwriter
The room is larger than a bas
ketball court. Black computer cab
inets crowd the tiled floor. Under 
the floor are 14 miles of highbandwidth cable, connecting 
together 3,000 processors. Despite what one might expect, this is not 
a forgotten corner of Wean Hall, 
but rather the machine room that 
houses the new Terascale 
Computing System. The system is 
located in the Westinghouse 
Energy Center in Monroeville, 
roughly 20 miles east of 
Pittsburgh.
The Terascale Computing System (TCS) is the fastest super
computer dedicated to unclassi
fied research in the world. And its 
specifications are truly impressive:
Despite widespread anxiety 
about the safety of air travel and 
of international excursions in the 
wake of the tragic events of 
September 11, study abroad pro
grams in the US have not been 
affected adversely. Universities 
around the country are reporting 
that student interest in studying 
abroad has remained the same as 
before the attacks.
According to Eva Mergner, 
study abroad advisor at CMU, a 
steady interest in studying abroad
Complaints rise 
in response to 
increased noise 
on CMU campus
by Pearl S. Goldman
Staffwriter
All is quiet on the western front ... or so we hope. In recent weeks, 
Student Affairs has received com
plaints from faculty and staff 
regarding the noise control on cam
pus. In the days shortly succeeding 
the September 11 terrorist attacks, 
the Carnegie Mellon community 
embraced one another in support. 
Student responses included a peace 
rally and a teach-in on or near the Cut. Several faculty members 
expressed concerns that noise on the Cut interfered with nearby classes.
There have certainly been events 
in the days following the 11th that 
have violated the letter of the noise 
policy, but I think everyone under
stood that and was grateful for the activities involved, said Michael 
See NOISE, page A5
Courtesy of Kristin Gilmore
Kristin Gilmore, a CMU senior, plays with a lion cub during the year she spent in South Africa studying abroad.
NSIDE THE TARTAN
Arts & Living
Festivities at CMU! Read 
about the Malaysian food and 
International festivals, 
page B1
Forum
Mintus has girl trouble, and 
debates continue about the 
September 11 attacks, 
page A6
Business
GSIA elects a new director 
of the BA program, 
page B4
Sports
CMU students still have school 
spirit. Check out what theyre 
doing to support our teams, 
page A12
Entertainment
Who is Corky Romano? Find 
out this week, along with new 
CD reviews, page B6
John Whiteman/Photo Staff
Students enjoyed a performance of Arican drumming during the weekendlong International Festival on campus.
TUESDAY Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1 go6
Hi 65/Lo 45

---------------------------------------------------

A2THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Crews collect pieces from Russian jetliner
SOCHI, Russia (AP)  Griefstricken relatives gathered to identify crash victims in the Russian port city of Sochi on Friday as crews picked debris from the Black Sea in hopes of determining what brought down a 
Russian jediner.Seventy-eight people  most of them Russian immigrants in Israel 
returning to Russia for the Jewish Sukkot holiday  were killed when the Sibir Airlines flight from Tel Aviv 
to Novosibirsk exploded over the 
Black Sea Thursday.US intelligence officials believe the plane was accidentally hit by a Ukrainian S-200, or SA-5, missile  a large surface-to-air missile built to shoot down heavy bombers flying at high altitudes. The United States tracked the missile during a Ukrainian military exercise with 
satellites that sensed the heat of its launch, and officials said the time of the launch coincided with the disas
ter.Ukrainian officials heatedly denied 
the allegation, but Ukrainian Prime Minister Anatoliy Kinakh appeared to 
soften Kievs stance on Friday with the comment that the US version 
has a right to exist.He told Ukrainian journalists that 
there were no official conclusions frOm the Ukrainian investigation, the 
Interfax news agency reported. He also said that if there were serious information about Ukrainian 
involvement, the US side would have given it to Moscow.Earlier Friday, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Ivanov sent an urgent 
request to the Pentagon for documentary data that could prove or 
disprove its officials contention that a missile had brought the plane down, Interfax said. Ivanov said he 
had not yet received a reply.Vladimir Rushailo, the head of 
Russias Security Council, who is overseeing the investigation into 
Thursdays crash, said debris was spread over a 12-mile-wide area. Officials warned that it would be dif
ficult to locate the planes black box because the Black Sea is more than7,000 feet deep at the crash site and the bottom is covered with 12 inches 
of silt.
The Tupolev 154 went down 114 miles off the Russian coastal city of Adler, near Sochi. The plane carried 66 passengers and 12 crew members, 
according to Gleb Gutiyev, a Sochi city spokesman.Their relatives began arriving in 
Sochi from Novosibirsk on Friday, 
pacing the halls of a local hotel. Others were expected from Israel on Sunday.My daughter was flying to visit us, 
with my grandson, Pavel 
Kopchevets said, looking grimly at the floor and blinking back tears. Theres nothing more to say. Forgive
Corrections & Clarifications
Georgia Supreme Court deems electric chair cruel and unusual punishment
me."Police were stationed outside the 
gray concrete city morgue as grieving relatives went inside.Rabbi Ari Edelkopf said the local Jewish community was trying to help 
the family members.The Jewish community here is shocked and we are all working 
together to bring everything back to normal, respecting the dead, and taking care of all the logistics, he 
said.Crying relatives also gathered Friday at the Tel Aviv airport. Among them was Haim Kuznitsov, who lost his 76-year-old mother-in-law, Sarah Kamcha, who was en route to Novosibirsk to visit her sister.When we escorted her to the 
plane in the morning, she held my hand in a certain way that made me feel that she was afraid to fly there, Kuznitsov told Israel radio. She did
nt say anything, but I felt like she wasnt feeling good about it, and I was afraid to leave her, as if my heart 
was saying something.Two of 14 bodies brought ashore had been identified, said Alexander Moskalyets, an official with the 
Emergency Situations Ministry.Parts of the fuselage and cockpit 
were recovered along with a door of the plane, Gutiyev said.Holes were found in the door, lead
ing to speculation they may have been caused by gunfire. Rushailo 
said it was premature to conclude holes in the cabin door had come from bullets  which might support Russia's theory that the plane had 
been targeted by terrorists.We dont talk about theories or 
guesses, we say only what is estab
lished fact, Rushailo said.Vladimir Tasun, a civil aviation 
official for the Siberian region where the plane was bound, told Russias NTV television Friday that an air traffic controller in Rostov saw a bright 
spot approaching the plane before it disappeared from the radar screen.
Ukrainian officials denied the US missile claim, saying they had launched only short-range missiles that couldnt reach the plane flying 
some 155 miles away.Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksandr Kuzmuk said Ukrainian 
and Russian monitoring showed the missiles hit their targets at the calculated times, and that the time dif
fered from the crash of the plane. None of the 23 rockets launched were in the direction of the crash, he 
said.However, the Interfax-Military 
News Agency cited Ukrainian defense officials saying that a radarguided missile could have deviated from its target and homed in on the 
airliner instead.The Ukrainian Defense Ministry refused to comment on the report.
ATLANTA (AP)  Georgias high
est court struck down the use of the electric chair Friday, saying the 
ghastly injuries inflicted and the risk of excruciating pain violate the state constitution's ban on cruel and unusual punishment.
The 4-3 ruling by the Georgia 
Supreme Court leaves Alabama and 
Nebraska as the only states with the electric chair as the sole method of 
execution. A few states that once relied exclusively on the chair now offer condemned inmates a choice of 
electrocution or lethal injection.
The ruling is believed to be the 
first time a states highest court has struck down use of the electric chair 
as cruel and unusual.
With the decision, Georgia automatically switched to lethal injection 
for the 128 men and one woman on 
death row, as well as those sen
tenced to death in the future.The court said electrocution 
inflicts purposeless physical vio
lence and needless mutilation. The 
justices criticized the electric chair for its specter of excruciating pain 
and its certainty of cooked brains 
and blistered bodies, especially 
since most states have switched to
lethal injection, a procedure the 
court called less painful, less barbarous.
Last year, the US Supreme Court voted 5-4 to turn away an Alabama case challenging the electric chair, 
but it remained unclear whether the 
court would use some other case to review the legitimacy of electrocutions.
The Georgia Constitutions ban on 
cruel and unusual punishment1 is almost identical in its wording to the 
one in the US Constitution.This decision ends the degrading 
spectacle of smoke, fire, and burning flesh that almost every other modem society in the world has aban
doned, said Stephen Bright of the 
Southern Center for Human Rights, who argued against electrocution 
before the Georgia court.
Georgia Attorney General 
Thurbert Baker, whose office fought to preserve electrocution, said that 
he would not appeal the ruling but 
that he felt the court was substitut
ing its opinion for the will of the 
people of Georgia.
Georgia has used the electric chair 
since 1924, when it replaced hang
ing. A total of 441 people have been
put to death in the chair, the last in 1998 when 39-year-old David Loomis Cargill was electrocuted for 
the armed robberies and murders of a couple in 1985.
The legislature, anticipating Fridays ruling, had set lethal injec
tion as the penalty for capital crimes 
committed after May 1, 2000, but 
left electrocution in place for those already under death penalty. 
However, the law provided an automatic switch to lethal injection if 
electrocution was ruled illegal.The courts majority cited that leg
islation as a sign of an evolving con
sensus in Georgia against the electric chair. The courts three dissenters, 
however, said the majority opinion 
represented only the evolving opinions of the majority members of this court.
During arguments before the 
court, the state cited expert opinions that electrocution brings immediate 
unconsciousness. Bright and others 
cited their own experts who said 
those undergoing electrocution could be conscious for some time.
The court said it could not deter
mine conclusively whether the elec
tric chair inflicts unnecessary pain,Both women and men keep feminist 
movement alive on Ohio U. campus
(U-WIRE) ATHENS, Ohio  
When Monica Ganguly decided to join the Ohio University Feminist Coalition, one of several women's organizations on campus, she was not prepared for the reaction she 
received.Ganguly said she could not under
stand why, after 30 years, people still viewed feminism as such a radical 
idea. To me feminism is just the rad
ical notion that women are people 
too, Ganguly said.The feminist movement of today 
often is referred to as the third wave, but unlike their predecessors, 
women now have to deal with the question of whether the need for a movement still exists.
But Susan Burgess, director of OUs womens studies program, said 
while things are better for women, there is still a long way to go. OUs program includes 80 courses offered in more than 20 departments.The third wave understands that
its important for young women to 
stay involved and that is the vitality of the movement, Burgess said. We 
are in a different political time, and the reasons why some women may think the movement is less visible or less appealing is because of the lack of political activity.
Feminist Coalition members expressed similar thoughts, and 
many said the movement is still important, though benefits are subtle.
Andrew Lombardi, a Feminist Coalition member, said what the third wave is up against is significant
 not from a legal level  but because it focuses on socialization as 
a basis for womens equality.Jan Griesinger, United Campus Ministry director, said feminism now 
takes on more forms. It has spread out to include ideas such as battery, abuse, and sexual assault  terms that did not exist when the womens movement started.
Another new aspect of feminism is the interest men are taking in the current movement.
Men were always supportive, but there is a fluidity about gender and sex in the third wave that makes fem
inism identifiable to a range of genders, Burgess said.The Feminist Coalition includes 
male members who are involved in 
promoting womens issues and working toward equality.
I became involved with [Feminist Coalition] to empower both men and 
women to change, Lombardi said.Tedd Riffe, another male Feminist Coalition member, acknowledged 
the importance of his involvement with the group. Im a male and I def
initely have the ability to say Im a feminist, he said.
People involved in the third wave say equal rights, sexual abuse, and body image are important issues sur
rounding the movement and ones they hope to affect.
Bar codes to provide faster blood tests
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editors-in-Chief 
Aseem Gupta and Sara Stille atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
In last weeks issue, Erica DiBenedetto should have received credit for the artwork on 
page A7.
WASHINGTON (AP)  Bar codes 
embedded in microscopic metal particles may enable doctors to identify 
hundreds of different proteins in a single drop of blood, leading to faster and more accurate medical laborato
ry tests, a study shows.The micro bar codes, similar to what grocery stores use to electronically identify products at the cash reg
ister, are made by assembling metallic atoms into rods so small that it would take 20 just to span a human hair.
Michael J. Natan, chief technical officer of SurroMed Inc. in Mountain View, Calif., said the tiny metal rods 
are made by putting together atoms
of gold, silver, copper, and other metals in banded patterns that can then 
be used as a code when viewed through a microscope.
Natan said the tiny rods are then attached to proteins, such as antibodies, that will, in turn, attach 
themselves to the target protein in a medical specimen. When the rods are mixed with a medical specimen, lab technicians can identify the pro
teins by looking at the banded patterns on the rods.
Natan said thousands of the minute rods, each with a different metal band pattern and each attached to a different protein, could
be placed into a small medical speci
men to conduct hundreds of medical lab tests at the same time.
In the past, lab tests required individual specimens for each of the target proteins, which means that patients often had to give up large amounts of blood or other bodily fluids.
Weve shown that we can identify 
proteins in a single batch and even when that sample is very small, said 
Christine D. Keating of Penn State.
The micro bar codes using metal rods would provide almost unlimited number of identifying patterns. The 
micro bar codes were developed at Penn State.
but added, We cannot ignore the cruelty inherent in punishments that 
unnecessarily mutilate or disfigure 
the condemned prisoners body. While the court left capital punishment in Georgia intact, Richard 
Dieter, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, 
said the death penalty will face more challenges.
I think it is part of a larger debate  
in which people are voicing unease about the death penalty, he said. 
The method is somewhat secondary.
That opinion was shared by state 
Sen. Sonny Perdue, a Republican from conservative middle Georgia.
Unfortunately I think weve seen indications for some time now that 
our Supreme Court has a distaste 
for  I believe  the death penalty, not just for execution by the electric 
chair, Perdue said.
Corrections Department
spokesman Mike Light said the 
death chamber at the state prison near Jackson about 40 miles from Atlanta has been retrofitted for 
injection, and we are fully pre
pared to carry out the order of the 
courts.Police use 
chopper for 
donut run
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) Albuquerque police have taken doughnut runs to new heights, swooping down in an official helicopter for a latenight snack.I dont know how they decided that was a good idea, said Lt. Bob Huntsman, Department spokesman.Huntsman said the Department is investigating.If they violated policy or procedure, theyre going to get disciplined for it, he said. Weve worked too hard to make this a professional unit to let lack of common sense tear us down.Keith Turner, who works near a Krispy Kreme donut shop, said he was on a break with other people early Thursday when a police helicopter circled and landed in a dirt field nearby.I was like, No, theyd better not go and get doughnuts,  Turner said. As the helicopter idled, someone got out and went into the store, returning 10 or 15 minutes later with a Krispy Kreme box, he said.The chopper gave what 
Turner presumed was a goodbye toot on its police siren as it took off, he said.
Huntsman confirmed it happened but said he had not yet spoken to those aboard.He said it appeared the two officers were near the end of their shift and probably were flying back to a hangar on the same side of town.
MWFff 
*25. OOO
Wfor grad school from Kaplan!
LAW # BUSINESS * GRAD * MEDICAL  DENTAL
Enter to win the "Kaplan Gets You In. 
And Pays Your Way" Sweepstakes!
litdiiicetente^ 
OctobeiJIsLdei
For full rules and to enter... complete an official 
entry form on campus, at a Kaplan center, or online at 
WWW.kaptest.com/25k by October 31, 2001.
KAPLAN
1-800-KAPTEST
kaptest.com/25k 
AOL keyword: Kaplan
DELIVERY
on DineEx and Campus Funds!
Pizza, Wings, Chicken 
Sandwiches, Spaghetti 
Dinners, and more. 
Not to mention Hot Dogs, 
French Fries, Burgers, 
and Steak Hoagies.
PHONE 412-687-8327
llam - 2am Daily
* $8.00 minimum
Pick up a menu at either 
Original Hog Dog Shop (CMU or Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

programvisas
of Naima Hall'
rprr TAAAARRApr li Eli Eli   w 1 I Li
YOU'RE GOING OUT >> GET IN THE LOOP
EPT 7-OCT 2Rl + SAT, 7PM-2A 
T'S ULTRAVIOLETM   m m m W  M 
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Multi-faceted students poised to find 
more offers in slumping job market
JOBS, from page A1 classmates have had their start dates pushed back and others have had their job offers rescinded, said 
Mandel. These students now face gr^at uncertainty and are in a chal
lenging position, in terms of both 'their careers and their personal 
finances. Students who had already 
made arrangements to relocate for a jgb that was later rescinded are in an,especially difficult situation. 
Ive heard from many that [the 
job. market] isnt too great, said Bea Diaz, a senior in ethics, history, 
and public policy. Many people are 
hired and fired within a few months; I even know of people who 
got severance pay without having worked a day at all, and those were 
th% lucky ones.Judi Mancuso, the associate director of the CMU Career Center 
concurs, yet
has impacted some CFA students, particularly those looking to get 
into Web and interactive design companies. Career opportunities in 
other areas, like museum work or education, for example, are proba
bly very similar to three or four 
years ago.While personal accounts of disappointment are not definitive of the 
true state of the employment mar
ket, the preliminary findings in the 2002 Fall Survey by the National 
Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) seem to confirm 
the lack of enthusiasm and the lack 
of hiring. Thirty percent of employ
ers surveyed indicated that they would be recruiting fewer college 
graduates in 2002, a six-fold 
increase over the 5 percent who expressed that sentiment in 2000.
Despite lackluster interest by
 Judi Mancuso 
Assoc. Career Center Director
attempts to clarify Students with multi-disciplinary coursework and 
the ^ob S marked experiences as well as a diverse set of skills are 
As you know, the always highly sought after. dot-com industry 
took a rather 
quick fall during 
the fourth quarter of 2000, said Mancuso. This drop impacted many supporting organi
zations such as consulting firms, 
technology firms, Web organiza
tions, and some investment firms.Yet, many industries held firm and 
were not at all impacted. Many sec
tors such as the arts, service, gov
ernment, biomedical, energy, and chemicals remained firm. The 
spring of 2001 was a difficult job 
market for everyone to understand.Employers were caught off guard 
and many of us were shocked by the 
rapid decline. Although there has 
been some publicity out there that a 
large number of our 2001 grads had 
their offers rescinded or deferred, 
this really is not the case.
The scenario of job discouragement is not strictly limited to 
Internet companies; the slump has 
also touched industries only affiliated with the Internet. Harriet 
Schwartz, the College of Fine Arts 
Career Consultant of the CMU 
Career Center explains, I think
that flip cViift in tfip HicrH fprh nrpa
who graduated from CMU with a 
degree in cognitive science in 2001. I have the impression that its not 
difficult at all to find a job  the tricky thing might be finding the 
exact job you want, with the bene
fits and pay youre looking for. Students have also widened their 
job searches, seeking alternate professions, or deferring entering the 
workforce altogether. I know that 
many of my friends now are very concerned about getting jobs once 
they graduate, said Diaz. It seems as though the current state of the 
economy has made several of my friends consider graduate school 
when they had no intentions before. Many others have tried to 
broaden their career searches, looking for jobs that they normally 
wouldnt have considered.Eric Fong, a senior double major-___________ing in ECE and EPP,
describes how he 
had lowered expectations of 
finding a job after 
working for a 
technology com
pany over the 
summer. The hiremployers to recruit recent college 
graduates, there is a sizable num
ber of students who disagree with the prevailing opinion. I have a 
self-defined, interdisciplinary 
major: drama/communicationdesign and
ethics/anthropology/religion, said 
Mary Ann Feusner, a senior in the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
program. I am confident Ill find a 
job. I feel Im marketable for a 
broad spectrum of occupations, and 
my interests are varied. Regardless of what the job mar
ket is doing, students with multidisciplinary coursework and expe
riences as well as a diverse set of 
skills are always highly sought 
after, said Mancuso. Flexibility is 
very important, and students who 
have broadened their backgrounds 
beyond their field of studies are 
often seen as more willing to do 
that in the future.Overall, Ive heard positive state
ments from my friends about the 
job market, said Jeffrey Thibert,
ing prospects arent good. Yet, tech
nology companies will always need 
core engineers because that is their main business. From what Ive 
heard, initial cutbacks are usually seen in administration and market
ing positions. The companies at the 
Technical Opportunities
Conference seemed to be fairly opti
mistic about their hiring needs, 
although that could be a deliberate 
[tactic on the part of the compa
nies] . While I think that the compe
tition for the jobs I want will 
increase, I do believe that there will 
always be jobs in the field I am 
going into.
Although the NACE Fall Survey 
reflects national opinion, it is not 
necessarily representative of the 
position which CMU students find 
themselves in after graduation. 
Overall, Carnegie Mellon students 
 from all colleges  are valued 
for the excellent training they 
receive and are known for their 
excellent problem solving
Qpp IOR nacrp RR
Interest in study abroad programs 
remains high despite terrorist attacks
ABROAD, from page A1 
Australia might be safer right now 
than the US.
James Wertman, a junior 
chemical engineering major who 
is currently studying at RWTH Aachen, (a technical university 
in a small German town), does 
not feel unsafe in his host town. 
I am not worrying about any 
type of anti-American hostilities 
because I am in such a small town where most of the populace 
is students, said Wertman. 
What I appreciated was that the 
day after the attacks, all of my 
classmates at RWTH were very 
supportive.
Wertmans sentiments are very similar to those of Patrick Landi, 
a University of Miami finance 
and marketing major. Landi is presently at the Amsterdam 
School of Business in the Netherlands. The only problem 
I have heard of so far was when I was in Paris last weekend and 
some guy cartie up to a Canadian, 
thought he was American, and 
started chanting bin Laden, bin 
Laden, said Landi. Overall, I
Despite many positive reports, 
there have been two reported instances at Carnegie Mellon of 
students deciding not to go 
abroad because of the events of September 11. Two instances 
have been reported at Boston 
College as well. Abbey Lockhart, 
a Boston College student who 
had been planning to go to London, was actually sitting on 
an American Airlines plane at 
John F. Kennedy airport on 
September 11. It was a very sur
real experience. You could see 
the burning buildings from the 
plane while people were still 
boarding. No one really knew 
what was going on.
Jim Sullivan, also a student at 
Boston College, had started the 
fall semester abroad in Paris 
when he heard the news of the 
attacks. He flew home one week 
later. After the attacks, there 
was a different atmosphere, peo
ple were telling us not to draw 
attention to ourselves [as 
Americans] ... not to travel out
side of the country.
The Semester at Sea study
University of Pittsburgh has been directly affected by the tragedy 
of September 11. The cruise ship, 
which is currently carrying hun- 
dreds of US university faculty 
and students, is being diverted 
away from the Middle East in 
response to the terrorist attacks. 
Robert Hill, a spokesperson for 
Pitt, said that security for the 
ship has been increased, but he 
refused to disclose any further 
details about the security or of the new route of the ship.
Another possible impact upon 
study abroad programs after the . terrorist attacks is that universi-. 
ties in other countries may now 
be wary of sending students to 
the US. This phenomenon, when . 
combined with Senator Dianne 
Feinsteins recently proposed 
legislation, would drastically 
reduce the number of foreign 
students coming to the US to 
study. Feinstein, who wants to 
increase national security, has 
proposed more rigid back-, 
ground checks for foreign stu-. 
dents and a six-month moratori
um on international student
CMU students Shalyn Davis and Naima Hall visited Venice, Italy, while studying abroad last year in Switzerland.
THE STOPS:
DOWNTOWN:
 Gateway/Hilton Downtown
 Penn Ave + 7th
THE STRIP:
 Smallman St + 15th
BLOOMFIELD:
 Liberty Ave + Ella
EAST LIBERTY:
 S. Highland Ave + Baum
? S. Highland Ave + Alder
SHADYSIDE:
? Ellsworth Ave + College
 Walnut St + Bellefonte
OAKLAND:
 CMU Campus
Forbes + Morewood
 Pitt Campus
Oakland Ave + Forbes/Fifth
SOUTHSIDE:
 E. Carson + 17th
PRESENTED BY GROUND ZERO, THE NEW I0EA FACTORY AND THE 
PITTSBURGH PARTNERSHIP FOR NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENTWWW.9Zp9h.COm
> QT rt w
t X   U in b I ( 2 2 x z E 1*5 . b-O=  5> o J <CD CL

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8,2001
Q Add 2-titer Pepsi, Diet Pepsi or 
I Mt. Sew for only $1.99!
4740 Baum Blvd 
(412)687-9555
Service planned to honor alumni killed.c? *missing in attacks
.ALUMNI, from page A1 the alumni council. Jennifer Neubauer, assistant vice president 
for Alumni Relations, reports that 
two Carnegie Mellon alumni narrowly missed being killed by the 
;; terrorist acts. One alumnus who worked in the World Trade Center 
overslept and therefore was not 
 present on the day of the attacks, 
^nd another graduate who works 
; at the Pentagon was not in her 
I office at the time of the plane 
crash.Kirkpatrick knew both Uman 
and Linton personally and is cur
rently communicating with the 
Linton family via email about the 
""tragedy. She says of the two men, 
Both Jonathan and Alan are the 
kinds of human beings who would 
have first helped people to gather 
their strength and then go on. [If 
-ihey had survived,] they would 
-have gone on to continue to do 
jwonderful things. 
t'., In order to chronicle the tragedy and immortalize the 
, memory of these six students, the 
^-Alumni Council, with the support 
, of President Jared Cohon, has 
; -arranged a memorial service to be 
. held Homecoming Weekend. On 
October 13 at 8:30 am in Kresge 
/ Theater in CFA, a remembrance 
service will be held in honor of the 
^former students. The families of 
-,the victims have been personally 
invited to attend. One family is 
from Pittsburgh, while the others 
will travel from various locations 
on the East Coast if they choose to 
be present.
The program for the ceremony 
will open with a piper playing 
-.-Amazing Grace, and then 
-President Cohon will speak. 
-Deans Lehosky (H8tSS), Anderson <^(CIT), and possibly Dunn (GSIA)
will also be present to speak on 
behalf of the schools from which 
the students graduated. The cere
mony will include music by a brass ensemble from the music depart
ment and a speech from Sister 
Sheila OFriel, who will provide a 
closing prayer at the close of the 
event.
Out of the 56,000 active 
Carnegie Mellon alumni world
wide, six students may seem like a 
small handful, but Neubauer says 
that the effect has still been stag
gering. The numbers are posi
tively numbing, and the fact that 
six of our alumni were hurt by this 
event really brought the events 
closer to home, said Neubauer. 
They may be one out of a huge 
number of students to have 
attended this University, but to 
their wife  to their kids  they 
are one out of one. Like 
Kirkpatrick, she has also chosen to 
contact the families of the victims 
via email, commenting that it is a 
less intrusive way of offering con
dolences and assistance.
In addition to the memorial ser
vice, a pink blossoming tulip tree 
will be planted on the patch of 
grass adjacent the tennis courts, 
bearing a plaque with the names 
of the victims and an inscription 
of the tragedy.
This loss amplifies the sorrow 
[of the whole tragedy] for all of 
us ... Knowing that our own 
extended University family has 
been touched so directly is espe
cially difficult, said Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, 
who was acquainted with three 
of the victims. It has forged an 
important bond for many 
throughout the campus, espe
cially students, that will contin
ue to sustain us.
mm
V)S
psW
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
Students watched the news of the airstrikes against Afghanistan unfold in 
Kirr Commons and McConomy Auditorium on Sunday.
Airstrikes against Afghanistan focus on airports*; 
Taliban headquarters, terrorist training camps
STRIKES, from page A1
bers of bin Ladens al-Qaida terrormovement.The second wave, which appeared to be more precisely targeted, struck the Taliban national headquarters in downtown Kandahar, the sources said. They said smoke was seen billowing from Mullah Omars highwalled compound about nine miles outside the city.In Jalalabad, other sources reached by telephone from Islamabad said three loud explosions could be heard. One seemed to be coming from the area of Farmada, a bin Laden training camp about 12 miles south of the city.In Pakistan, Taliban ambassador Abdul Salam Zaeef told reporters that bin Laden, the main suspect in the September 11 attacks, and Mullah Omar survived.By the grace of God, Mullah Omar and bin Laden are alive, Zaeef said. He did not give details or say whether either leader was near the scene of the attacks.In Washington, Pentagon officials said the United States and Britain launched 50 cruise missiles against targets inside Afghanistan in an attack that also involved the most sophisticated US warplanes. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said an initial goal of the strikes was to render air defenses ineffective and to wipe out the Talibans military aircraft.
Gen. Richard Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said 15 bombers and 25 strike aircraft, both sea and land-based, launched the missiles at 12:30 pm EDT, or 9 pm Kabul time. Myers said the attacks included B-l, B-2, and B-52 bombers as well as ships and submarines in the region.
Power went off throughout Kabul almost immediately after the first of the thunderous blasts, which appeared to have been in the southwest of the city. The southwestern part of Kabul includes the Darulaman Palace, an ancient royal residence, and the Balahisar Fort, an old Mogul style installation.The firing tapered off for a few minutes but resumed after a jet aircraft could be heard passing over the city. Early Monday, a lone aircraft dropped one bomb in the northern edge of Kabul. The powerful explosion shook the area, setting off a burst of anti-aircraft fire.The private, Islamabad-based Afghan Islamic Press Agency quoted the Taliban as saying American planes had bombed areas near the Kabul airport in the northern part of the city. The agency said there were no details of casualties and no reports of damage to the city itself. It added, however, that huge smoke is rising near Kabul airport.In a statement carried by Afghan
Islamic Press, an unidentified Taliban spokesman in Kandahar said all provincial airports in the country appeared to have been targeted but we have not suffered any major damage.
The head of an Afghan opposition group office in Iran said more than 200 US and British missiles hit Afghanistan and devastated Talibans fortifications in Kandahar, Kabul, and Mazar-e-Sharif.Touriali Ghiassi, head of an Afghan opposition groups office in Mashhad, northeastern Iran, also told the official Islamic Republic News Agency that several residential areas had been damaged in the attacks.Electricity was restored in Kabul more than two hours after the attack, but later went out again. It was unclear whether the blast had damaged transmission facilities or the Taliban were shutting off electricity to darken the city from attackers.In their first official reaction, the Taliban called the assault a terrorist attack and vowed that America will never achieve its goal. The statement was issued by Zaeef, the ambassador to Pakistan. Later, Taliban Deputy Defense Minister Mullah Noor Ali said the people of Afghanistan will resist. They will never accept the rule of infidels.The Pakistani government, which has thrown its support to the US-led
coalition against terrorism, said it regretted that diplomatic efforts did not succeed and called for the US action to remain clearly targeted.*Pakistan had been the Talibans closest ally until the September 11 attacks. But Pakistani government spokesman Rashid Qureshi confirmed that Pakistan's airspace was 1 used by US and British forces' to launch attacks Sunday night, and in ] the town of Chaman vehicles carrying Pakistani soldiers could be seen heading for the Afghan border.Earlier Sunday, the Taliban had 1 made an llth-hour appeal to prevent US attacks: They offered to j detain bin Laden and try him under Islamic law if the United States made a formal request. The Bush adminisI tration quickly rejected the Taliban proposal. |In an offensive coordinated with US airstrikes, the opposition northern alliance launched a rocket launcher attack on Taliban forces controlling the mountains north of \ Kabul. The Taliban returned fire using Soviet-made BM-21 rockets, some exploding 200 yards from where foreign journalists were observing the attack.The Taliban are estimated to have some 40,000 fighters  around a quarter of them from bin Ladens organization  and many of those are involved in fighting the alliance.
Crime and Incident Report
Criminal Mischief 9/29/01, 2:45 am
 A Campus Police officer responded to a call in Morewood Gardens E-Tower. The victim, a 
female, said that three males entered her room 
through a door that was left open and told her 
that they wanted to talk to someone. The 
males smelled of alcohol and tried to tell the 
victim about themselves and ask her what she 
was doing. The males then said that they were 
seniors at CMU. At this point, the victim told 
the males she was going to bed, so they walked 
across the hall to another open room. Within, 
they found three females whom the males 
asked if they wanted to go drinking with them. The males claimed they could show the 
females what life on campus was really like. 
The victims said that they were scared and 
asked the actors to leave and shut the door behind them. One of the three males drew a picture of a male sex organ on the victims 
whiteboard before he left.
Theft 9/30-10/2/01, time unknown 
A University Center employee contacted CMU 
police to report a theft. After conducting a 
property inventory of the building, it was 
determined that two black leather lounge 
chairs had been removed from Kirr Commons 
by person(s) unknown. The chairs were last 
accounted for on 9/30/01.
Suspicious Person 10/1/01, 12:20 am
 A CMU staff member called Campus Police 
to report a suspicious message on her voice mail system. The officer responding listened to 
the message. The caller, evidently an elderly 
male, mumbled and sounded disorganized. He 
uttered such phrases as satellite junk in space used against terrorist and crazy dumb suck
er causes on the other side of the world. The
caller did not make any verbal threat but only 
appeared to be venting. The victim was 
advised to keep a detailed log of the phone calls should any more occur.
Theft 10/1/01, 9:30 pm  An officer 
responded to a report of theft by a University 
Center employee. The victim said that she had 
arrived for work and hid her purse in an unused 
dishwasher at 6 pm. The victim explained that 
she was unable to afford a lock to secure her 
belongings. When she retrieved her purse at 9:30 pm, she found $12 had been removed by per
son (s) unknown. The victim suspected another 
particular University Center employee whom the 
victim had witnessed removing items from the 
University Center. Several thefts have been reported in the area; police are investigating.
Violation of Policy 10/4/01, 12:28 am
 A complainant phoned CMU police to report person (s) unknown walking on the roof 
of Hamerschlag House A-Tower. The officer 
and complainant found a number of objects had been placed behind the building to effect 
access to the roof. The officer mounted the 
roof in this way and discovered four CMU stu
dents whom he escorted to a safer area. When 
questioned, the actors claimed they did not 
know they were not permitted on the roof. The 
officer advised them that the policy for roofs 
and parapets is listed in the student handbook 
and issued them CMU internal citations.
Recovery 10/4/01, 1:20 pm  A male 
called to report that the printer he had report
ed missing on 10/1/01 had been found. When 
he went to room 1330 in Wean Hall to check 
on the equipment there, he found the missing printer on the floor. It is unknown at this time
what exactly transpired.
Open Lewdness 10/5/01, 2:51 am Three officers responded to Hunt Library due 1 
to a report of a male who had just exposed 
himself. One of the victims told officers that the male was still somewhere within the 
building and described him as dirty with 
ripped and torn clothing. The officers confronted the actor and questioned him. A CPS 
employee stated that she had seen the actors 
penis while he was in the stacks. The actor 
denied exposing himself. The officers asked 
him to raise the front of his shirt. Due to the 
poor and tattered condition of his pants, the 
actors penis was clearly visible. Officers 1 
determined that the actor had accidentally exposed his penis when his shirt had been lifted, perhaps as he was reaching for a book. 
The actor was informed that he should have 
been aware that his penis could be exposed in 
such a manner and needed to act in a way 
more considerate of others. The actor was 
escorted off campus. i
- Campus Sergeant Budzik reviews all reports 
prior to release.
- Only four people on The Tartan staff see the 
reports: the Editors-in-Chief, the News Editor; 
and the staffwriter typing the report.
- All personal names of complainants, vic
tims, suspects, and fraternities are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and 
other personal details are given only in the con
text of complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs appears in 
the report.
Compiled tiy Jonathan Pearce

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
News Brief:
LSAT registration up 25 percent
Terascale Computing System to perform 
fastest unclassified research in the world
According to the Law School 
Admissions Council, LSAT registration has risen by 25 percent-from last October  the largest 
ever jump in LSAT test registra
tion during a single year.Last October, about 45,000 
people registered for the LSAT,- which is a standardized test com
pulsory for all law school candidates. This October, the number 
of test takers will exceed 60,000. Interest in the LSAT had already 
shown an increase last spring,- when the June test date saw an 
18.6 percent jump in test takers: from the previous June.^  Both LSAT and Kaplan Test
- Preparation officials ascribe the 
recent immense appeal of the
LSAT to the nations floundering-'economy.
'-'x It appears that there is a sig
nificant interest in law school 
because it seems that when the economy is weak, more people apply to law school, said LSAT 
spokesperson Ed Haggerty.According to The Washington 
Post, before the September 11 
attack, the nations economic growth was four percent higher than last year. Now, the economic growth is teetering near zero. 
But, while corporate earnings, 
layoffs, and the stock market all point towards a national slump, 
thriving LSAT registration paints 
a rosier picture.Kaplan spokesperson Bonnie Eisner said that even though the 
economy is struggling, students think that law school will pro
vide them with a good education 
and entry into a lucrative job 
market.
Basically, the increase in enrollment is tied into the econo
my, said Eisner. On the whole, interest in law school has been 
decreasing for the last 10 years. 
This is a tremendous increase. She also noted that the number of 
attendees to LSAT test preparation classes has increased signifi
cantly, although she could not provide exact enrollment statis
tics.Bianca White, president of Phi 
Alpha Delta, (the University of Virginias pre-law fraternity) said 
that although she planned to go to graduate school regardless of 
the nations economic status, the recent economic slump encour
ages me to go now even more.
Compiled by Mayank Bubna
Osama bin Laden tapes comments 
regarding September 11 attacks
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)  Osama 
bin Laden praised God for the
- .September 11 terrorist attacks and swore America will never dream 
;of security until the infidels 
armies leave the land of 
' Muhammad, in a videotaped statement aired after the strike 
launched Sunday by the United 
States and Britain against 
Afghanistan.
The taped comments appeared to be made in daylight, which 
would mean that the video was 
3'recorded before the Sunday night attack on Afghanistan. mi There is America, hit by God in 
''one of its softest spots. Its greatest 
!i buildings were destroyed, thank God for that. There is America, full 
r 'of fear from its north to its south, 
r' from its west to its east. Thank
God for that,, bin Laden said in 
the video shown Sunday on AlJazeera, the Arabic satellite sta
tion.
I swear by God ... neither 
America nor the people who live in  it will dream of security before we
live it in Palestine, and not before 
all the infidel armies leave the 
land of Muhammad, peace by upon him, bin Laden said in the 
tape aired Sunday.Bin Ladens war on America has 
been fueled in part by anger over 
US support for Israel and the pres
ence of US troops in Saudi Arabia, 
home to Islam's holiest shrines, 
including the tomb of the prophet Muhammad.
After the Sunday military action 
began, an official from 
Afghanistans ruling Taliban mili
tia said that both bin Laden and 
Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar survived the initial wave of 
the attack. There was no way to verify the statement.
White House spokesman Ari 
Fleischer said US officials were 
skeptical of the bin Laden tape, 
noting that it showed bin Laden in 
daylight. Fleischer said he did not 
believe President Bush hadseen 
the tape as of mid-afternoon.
The Taliban and Osama bin Laden have said all kinds of things
that are often at odds with reali
ty, Fleischer said. What he says is not as important as what hes 
done.
In the tape, bin Laden was shown dressed in fatigues and an 
Afghan headdress, sitting in a 
stone cave and flanked by two 
aides. It was the first time he has spoken himself about the 
September 11 attacks, though he 
has issued denials of responsibility 
through intermediaries.Bin Ladens top deputy, Ayman 
al-Zawahri, who also head the 
Egyptian militant group Islamic 
Jihad, appeared in the videotape 
at bin Ladens side.
People of America, your government is leading you into a los
ing battle, al-Zawahri said. 
Remember that your government 
was defeated in Vietnam, fled in 
panic from Lebanon, rushed out of 
Somalia, and was slapped across 
the face in Aden. Your government 
today is leading you into a losing 
war, where you will lose your sons and your money.
COMPUTING, from page A1
entific director at PSC, the TCS 
packs 12 times the computational power and more than 40 times the 
memory, as the fastest previous 
PSC system, the T3E. Although IBMs ASCI White system is 
faster, the TCS will be available for unclassified research.Levine explained that using 
many commodity PC parts, such as PC hard drives, helped to keep the cost of the project down. Additionally, the center opted to 
use Compaqs EV68 processors rather than custom microprocessors. However, the nodes require a 
network bandwidth many times greater than an average PC. These network capabilities are provided 
by a large-scale switch, which takes up more than 21 cabinets in the machine room.
The TCS is distinguished from most other systems by its scale, said Roskies. The scale confers unique capabilities on the system. Program directors believe that the research possible with the TCS will prove invaluable to numerous fields in the future. As we
increase the strength of computational platforms ... we keep opening up new fields that were not feasible fields for work before, said Roskies. Were already seeing major new work, large-scale computations that push the envelope.
Courtesy of Michael Levine
The Terascale Computing System will be dedicated to unclassified research.
Noise complaints focus on outdoor student activities, Wats:on? concert
NOISE, from page A1 Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, 
adding that most of the complaints 
have been easily resolved.
In addition to the outdoor activities in reaction to the ter
rorist attacks, the Wats: on? 
Festivals outdoor concert also received its share of noise com
plaints.
WRCT, the student-run radio 
station that plays music outside 
of Merson Courtyard on Friday afternoons, has not been the
recipient of any of the recent 
noise complaints. WRCT General 
Manager Matt Mlinac, a junior 
computer science major, said 
The complaints werent for us at 
all, but were for all of the campus activities happening since 
September 11.
The [noise complaint prob
lem] has never been a serious 
issue, but it does emerge period
ically, said Murphy. The critical 
components are thoughtfulness in planning and quick resolu
tions when a problem does 
occur. For example, one of our 
recent outdoor concerts was a 
concern for some neighbors to 
our north, so we reoriented the 
stage for our subsequent concert 
and managed to have another great event with no offense to 
the neighbors. I am grateful that 
we have the kind of relationship 
between our students, faculty, 
staff, and neighbors that makes 
these conflicts easy to mediate when they do arise.
Youth receives 18 years for murder
(U-WIRE) CARBONDALE, 111.  
The 17-year-old Carbondale juvenile who claimed he shot and killed a former Southern Illinois University student in defense of his mother will spend the next 18 years of his life in 
a state penitentiary after he pleaded out to a lesser charge.
Michael Valliant plead guilty on 
September 28 to aggravated battery with a firearm just 11 days before he was scheduled for a jury trial in Jackson County Court for the June 1 shooting death of 26-year-old
Chicago native Michael Corney. Public Defender Mark Costa said 
Thursday that he wanted to try the case, but Valliant wanted to accept a deal offered by Jackson County 
States Attorney Mike Wepsiec.
Costa refused to comment specifically on why Valliant plead guilty, but suggested recent information 
had weakened his clients defense strategy.
In light of the evidence, my client felt it wasnt worth the risk of being 
convicted of first-degree murder and
face a possible penalty of up to 20 to 60 years, Costa said.
Valliant contended that he shot 
Corney in the head on June 14 because Corney had threatened to 
kill him if he did not sell drugs. He also contended that Corney was 
going to hit his mother before the shooting. Police arrested Valliant 
eight days after the shooting. Corney fought for his life in Memorial 
Hospital of Carbondale for three weeks before succumbing to his gunshot wound on June 2.
small-company 
environment
big-company
impact
Who says you have to choose?
Perhaps it's time you discovered one of the many small-company 
environments behind the big-company impact of Johnson & Johnson.
find morewww.j nj.com/ca reers
As a proven achiever you've always been passionate 
about the way you spend your days. You demand 
more from yourself and those around you. Now you 
want to find an organization that shares your pas
sion for success. You'd love to find a small-company 
environment where you can work closely with 
experts in a wide variety of functions. Yet you 
hunger for big-company impact, where your career 
can set an exciting course across functional, organi
zational, even global lines.
At Johnson & Johnson we celebrate and promote 
small-company environments that nurture the needs 
of individuals and teams. Our decentralized, adaptive 
organization has grown to become the world's most 
broadly based health care company. Through our 195 
operating units in 51 countries, we bring real, indepth solutions to nearly every corner of global 
health care.
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies.
Carnegie Mellon 
University
Johnson & Johnson Presentation 
and Networking Reception
Join us to hear more about full-time and 
internship career opportunities in 
Information Management, Engineering, 
Research & Product Development and Sales.
Date: Monday, October 8,2001 
Location: Rangos Ballroom 
Time: Juss ti
Johnson & Johnson 2001. An equal opportunity employer. 
SMALL-COMPANY ENVIRONMENT/8IG-COMPANY IMPACT is a service mark of Johnson & Johnson.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
8 October 2001 THE TARTAN Page A6
inPittsburgh closing increases 
responsibility of City Paper
With an abruptness that shocked 
many readers, inPittsburgh, one of 
Pittsburghs weekly alternative news 
sources, was sold and terminated. On 
September 27, writers at inPittsburgh 
received notice that the paper had 
been sold to Steel City Media, the 
publishers of the Pittsburgh City 
Paper, and that publication would be 
immediately discontinued. This 
leaves one remaining free weekly 
publication in the Pittsburgh area. 
While City Paper should be praised 
for their hard work as an alternative 
news source, they must make an 
effort in the future to publish more of 
the cultural and "closer-to-thestreets" articles that InPittsburgh 
once covered and make sure that 
these views are not lost.
Review Publishing, the 
Philadelphia-based owners of the 
paper, had concluded that the finan
cial needs of inPittsburgh could no 
longer be supported. The paper had 
yet to turn a profit and had lost ground 
in its competition with City Paper. 
However, Review Publishing had 
reported last year that ad revenue had 
increased and the circulation of 
inPittsburgh was at a high of 72,000.
This news came at an unfortunate 
time with inPittsburgh recently 
increasing coverage and working to 
keep the Pittsburgh community 
informed in the wake of the 
September 11 tragedy. The closing of 
inPittsburgh has left 30 employees
While Carnegie Mellon is a school of 
great diversity, students tend to cling to 
organizations focused on their own eth
nicity and learn only about their own 
cultures. The International Festival 
departs from this norm as an enjoyable 
and educational event that exposes stu
dents to the food, dance, arts, and 
recreation of different cultures. Not 
only do students learn about a different 
culture, but they learn about it with stu
dents of various ethnicities.
While the festival has been an annual 
event for the past 11 years, this years 
Festival was particularly impressive, 
with better visibility and more student 
involvement. When walking through 
the University Center, students found 
themselves immersed in the sounds of 
African drums. On their way to class, 
they saw face painting and an African 
marketplace in a tent on the Cut. With 
events so strategically placed, students 
couldnt help, but notice all the events 
available to them through the 
International Festival this year.
For four days, the African 
International Festival brought cultural 
events and mind-broadening knowl
edge to students on campus. Also, 
because it coincided with Parents 
Weekend, the Festival offered different
BRAD GRANTZ, Managing Editor
SARA HENNEBERGER, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Science & Tech. Ed. 
ROBERT FETTERMAN, Business Editor 
JONATHAN PEARCE, Comics Editor 
BEHNAM FARAHPOUR, Photo Co-Editor 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Co-Editor 
ERICA DiBENEDETTO, Art Editor 
JASON SUROVY, Online Editor 
SERENA LAM, Online Design Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Dossier Design Editor 
ANISH KUMAR, Advertising Manager
without jobs, though City Paper has 
stated that they may hire some of the 
staff. In addition, this marks the end 
of a paper that was built up over 17 
years by the contributions of many 
talented writers and staff. In a letter 
to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Steve 
Volk, senior editor of inPittsburgh, 
aptly put it, "We rocked,, and now 
were dead."
This loss has impacted Carnegie 
Mellon students who appreciated 
inPittsburgh for its in-depth coverage 
of Pittsburgh culture ... and its 
comics. InPittsburgh readers used to 
flip the pages looking for extensive 
event listings, the comic "Red Meat," 
and the column Savage Love. City 
Paper must now work to fill the 
empty spot that the closing of 
inPittsburgh has created.
It is unfortunate that corporate con
solidation has hit so close to home. "It 
should remind us once again not to 
take our civic life for granted; commu
nity pillars like newspapers may seem 
like public services, but theyre as vul
nerable to the realities of capitalism as 
any other business," wrote Stephen 
Segal, editor of inPittsburgh.
It will be a daunting challenge for 
City Paper to fill the gaps that will be 
left by the disappearance of 
inPittsburgh. We can only hope that 
City Paper takes a close look at what 
was popular with inPittsburgh and 
incorporates these elements into their 
own publication.
options for students to participate in 
with their families. The activities ranged 
from lectures and personal experiences 
of students who have studied abroad, to 
more actively involved workshops on 
masks and jewelry making.
This years event included a larger 
contribution from student organiza
tions on campus. The Black Graduate 
Student Organization, Spirit, Student 
Dormitory Council, the Graduate 
Student Assembly, and Student Senate 
all contributed, whether it be financial
ly or with volunteering. This is also the 
first year that the Festival has named an 
official Student Director. This kind of 
participation is definitely an improve
ment from last years Festival.
While the event already offers a 
large variety of activities to partake in, 
continued and increased student and 
organization participation both in the 
festivities and the planning will help to 
make the event stronger and more suc
cessful. Carnegie Mellons diversity is 
essential to our success and growth. 
Opportunities like the International 
Festival challenge us to explore and 
expand our knowledge of other cul
tures and it is important that we all 
appreciate and take advantage of what 
they offer.
JENNIFER LIU, Business Manager
KRISTIN LALA, Copy Co-Manager 
EMMA REHM, Copy Co-Manager 
JOHN DAVIN, Production Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
DEBBIE HALPERN, Personnel Manager 
CHRIS CHUNG, Special Projects Manager 
K0 NAKATSU, Asst. Photo Editor 
JOY LEE, Asst. Advertising Manager 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
PAUL RICHELMI, Asst. Entertainment Editor
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS Matt Brun, Andy Francis, Sriram Gollapalli, Ish Harshawat, Bryan Kaplan, Cassandra Knight
Dont bash the BOC
Editor:
In its sixteen years of existence, the 
Business Opportunities Conference 
(BOC) has had its good and bad years, 
but it is indisputable that it has grown 
substantially in size, professional excel
lence, and reputation with recruiters 
and the University community. We are 
appreciative that the Tartan Staff says 
that the BOC should receive more assis
tance from the University. However, it is 
disconcerting that the Tartan itself has 
not been more supportive of our efforts.
Our grievances stem from the follow
ing sources:
First, the Tartan recently printed some 
erroneous information that it easily could 
have checked with us. Specifically, the 
Tartan said that the BOC has been around 
for 5 years, while it has in fact been in 
operation since 1986. Also, last year 55 
companies registered, this year 34 regis
tered  a decrease of 38 percent, not 50 
percent, as the Tartan reported (Oct. 1, p. 
A6).
Second, the Tartan ran a full-page ad 
of ours one week late, greatly decreasing 
the effectiveness of the ad.
Third, the Tartan lifted text from our 
web page and used it in a published arti
cle (Sept. 24, p. B6) without citing the 
source. This is not only annoying, it is 
also illegal.
For the record, we request and utilize 
feedback from students, faculty, staff, 
and employers every year for the BOC. If 
members of the Tartan Staff want to see 
the BOC improve, they should supply 
constructive criticism to us in our plan
ning process. This would have greater 
effect than just saying, get more 
involved, administration. The reason 
the BOC exists is that the administration 
of the University was not meeting stu
dents needs in the 1980s. Since then, we 
have been and still are working to devel
op a collaborative relationship with the 
University at many levels.
The BOC Committee could have pro
vided students and the University with 
55 companies again this year. However, 
the BOC feels that it is important to 
maintain high standards of quality both 
of companies and of job opportunities 
for our students. Carnegie Mellon has a 
unique blend of students and opportuni
ties on campus. We benchmark against 
other job fairs, but we do not make our 
decisions as a reaction to what others 
are doing. Consider also that companies 
this year faced a myriad of considera
tions when deciding which, if any, job 
fairs to attend.
As a final note, we had the pleasure of 
working with a truly gifted group of stu
dents in planning the BOC this year. If 
the Tartan wants to criticize the BOC, 
not only do we hope that it does so con
structively and with accurate informa
tion, but that it respects the work of the 
other members of our committee who 
receive no compensation for their 
efforts.
Rina Mansukhani, BOC 2001 Co-Chair
Jenny Stapleton, BOC 2000 & 2001
Co-Chair
Editors note:
While we appreciate the authors com
ments about our coverage of the BOC and 
our handling of their business account 
with us, we would like to clarify points 
raised in their letter. The authors state 
that The Tartan printed erroneous infor
mation about the BOC. The Tartan stated
that the BOC experienced a nearly 50 per
cent decrease in participation over last 
year, which is truewhile the decrease is
38 percent when compared to companies 
registered (as stated in the writers letter), 
it is actually around 50 percent when com
pared to actual participation, or the num
bers of companies physically present.
The writers also state that The Tartan 
printed an ad for the BOC one week late, 
resulting in decreased effectiveness. While 
this may be true, The Tartan received the 
ad late, making it ineligible for publica
tion on the scheduled run-date. The 
Tartan must receive all ad copy by the 
Thursday prior to publicationthe ad 
was received on the Friday prior to publi
cation. Any ads received after the due date 
are printed at the discretion of the paper.
Further, the writers state that The 
Tartan lifted text from the BOCs Web site. 
Whether or not this actually happened, it 
is not illegal. The information was pub
lished on a Carnegie Mellon Web site and 
is copyright Carnegie Mellon. The 
Tartans use of the material is not illegal 
because the organization is under the 
Carnegie Mellon umbrella.
Assume nothing
Editor:
In his article, God in the 
Classroom, Christopher Kim implies 
that scientism, the deification of sci
ence, is what is being taught by the 
public school system. Apparently, he 
gets this implication from the fact that 
public schools dont teach religion. He 
further claims that schools teach that 
anything that is unscientific is 
wrong. His assumptions and claims are 
incorrect. Schools teach about science 
and the scientific method. However, 
science is not (nor should it be) the 
only thing public schools teach. They 
also teach about things like art, music, 
and literature, none of which are scien
tific. All of which help to teach children 
about the things Kim implies could 
only come from religious teachings. I 
find Kims assertion that public schools 
are teaching that religion is wrong to 
be unfounded. If Kim or anyone else 
can present me with evidence of public 
school teachers teaching their students 
that religion is bad, Id be happy to sup
port them in having those teachers 
censured or even dismissed 
if warranted.
Further complicating the issue of try
ing to teach religion is what religion to 
teach. The article implies that there is 
some sort of generic religion that could 
be taught. However, many religions 
have very different viewpoints and 
beliefs, even among the various 
Christian sects. It would be impossible 
to try to teach about a religious view 
that would not conflict with some other 
religious viewpoint. Hence, the stance 
that religion is best taught by the par
ents, and not in the public school class
room, which is currently in place.
Ken Tew
CSD Education
We do promote 
freedom
Editor:
In her letter to the editor last week, 
Andrea Pellandra concluded that work
ing to build a world that is more free 
and democratic for everyone was the
best guarantor of peace. However, she 
seems to blame American foreign policy 
for keeping democracy from taking hold 
in many nations. Ms. Pellandra forgets 
that the spread of democracy and free
dom is exactly what the United States 
has been working towards since its 
inception. Spreading these ideals is a 
part of who we are as a nation; indeed, it 
is our Manifest Destiny to spread democ
racy and capitalism. After all, in the 
1770s, a powerful European kingdom 
supported a band of rebels in Britains 
American colonies. It is our duty to help 
others as the French helped us. 
American foreign policy is simply carry
ing on in the spirit of Lafayette.
Concerning Americas execution of 
that policy, remember that freedom has 
its price. Fighting the enemies of 
democracy is just as important as estab
lishing it. Yes, America did once support 
Osama bin Laden. But hindsight is 
20/20. We did not know that he would 
turn against the United States. And even 
if we did, they would still have been the 
lesser of two evils in Afghanistan at the 
time. The Evil Soviet Empire was a 
much greater threat to freedom and 
democracy than Al-Quada was. In this 
case, American support of the 
Mujaheddin was highly successful. It 
damaged the Soviet military and 
allowed American military planners 
access and insight into the Red Army 
and Air Forces weapons technology, 
capabilities, and tactics. Moreover, 
Communism was strained enough that 
the Iron Curtain collapsed, liberating 
millions from its oppression. It might be 
nice to always support the group fight
ing for democracy, but the real world 
isnt like that. We have to support the 
lesser of many evils, changing loyalties 
when necessary, in the hope that 
democracy will eventually prevail.
Additionally, Ms. Pallendra argues 
that the United Nations has condemned 
American policy toward Cuba. Well, the 
UN passes anti-American and anti
democratic resolutions all the time. 
Groups of nations frequently hijack the 
UNs agenda to fit their own purposes. 
Just witness the recent racism confer
ence in Durban, where several delega
tions demanded the inclusion of antiSemitic language in a document meant 
to foster better relations among peoples. 
We often forget that many UN members 
are brutal dictatorships that have no 
regard for human life. What kind of 
organization would allow China and 
Sudan on a human rights commission, 
when they are among the worst offend
ers of individual rights in the world? 
Americans should remember that most 
UN resolutions are fairly meaningless, 
and continue to pursue our goal of 
ensuring liberty thrives around the 
globe.
Diplomats cannot talk their way to 
freedom and peace. Peace is not some
thing that comes naturally. Peace is 
something that must be won and 
earned; it requires the sacrifice of 
blood, tears, and sweat. And there can 
be no peace until terrorists around the 
world are eliminated. Those who use 
terror, and their perverted ideologies, 
must join Nazism and Communism in 
what our President called the 
unmarked grave of discarded lies. It is 
our Manifest Destiny to keep them 
there. Lafayette would be proud. God 
Bless America.
Suneal Chandran
First-year student
Humanities and Social Sciences
Better visibility, more student 
assistance improve Festival
THE TARTANt\y 
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ASEEM GUPTA and SARA STILLE 
Editors-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Girl Trouble: Can't live 
with or without em
But, Seriously...
by: Sean Mintus
As you can plainly see, Ive yet to decide upon a new title. Rest 
assured, the wheels they are a turnin and by next week everything should be right as rain. Thanks to everyone who submitted suggestions. Im poring over them and expect to reach a decision sometime soon. And yes, Im just stalling because I drank the bottle of scotch 
while writing this column, but I get paid on Friday, so one of you lucky fiends will have your booze in time for the weekend. Until 
then, keep the ideas coming.Here I sit, plum out of ideas and past deadline thinking once again how foolish it is to try and do this every week. Honestly, this 
is hard work that, aside from the occasional encouraging comment, I dont get paid for. More now than ever I miss my ciga
rettes. There were times when I swore that each pack contained 
twenty ideas just waiting to be flushed out. Lighting one up was like flicking on a switch. Man, Im pathetic. Enough self-loathing. 
Down to business.Oh, you poor forsaken bastards. Youll never know what it is to 
stumble home from the PHI, open your door and see Mr. James Jimbo Graff working a guitar like none other. My long-haired 
roommate is quite the aspiring musician, his world awash with the 
possibilities of fame, fortune, hookers, and blow. At this very moment, his band, Aether, is strumming though a brief set on 
WRCTs Rock Show.They sound pretty tight, but whatever geriatric is hosting needs to 
cease with the Steven Wright impression and put some emotion into 
his performance. Where did they get this guy? His lone redeeming quality seems to be that, unlike most WRCT disc jockeys, he plays 
music with words in it. Not that I dont enjoy the endless hours of 
mindless techno streaming out of that place, but lyrics are nice every 
now and then.This is a sad day for yours truly. For it was today that I realized just 
how old Ive become. Over the hill, ready to be put out to pasture 
with the rest of a dying herd just waiting to become wallets and 
baseball gloves. What prompted this realization? For the first time in my long and loyal career as an avid Playboy looker, (notice I do not 
say reader), I am older than the playmate. Yes, Miss November was born almost four months after I, and while her world is now 
filled with photo shoots, press junkets, and Hef s 82 year-old mem
ber, I know only heartache.This realization, like any other undesirable, forced me to sit down 
with a case of Old English and Jimbo and pore through lamentations of twenty wasted years on a planet that gets more messed up by the 
day. The conversation turned to a brighter time, roughly a decade 
ago, when life was infinitely more simple and carefree. It was a majestic time, when Guns N Roses ruled the airwaves, In Living 
Color showcased a talented troupe of actors who just didnt know 
how famous they would one day be, and Reservoir Dogs gave us an 
excuse to steal R-rated movies.But what made this time in our lives better than most was a void. 
For it was then that we existed in the absence of that most wonder
fully self destructive element known as women. Our worlds consisted of long division, low-level vandalism, and G.I. Joe. There was none 
of this skirt-chasing nonsense. Women, to us, were a little bit slower, 
and therefore easier targets during dodgeball. No more, no less.
Now, they occupy an indelible portion of our lives, one that, more 
often than not, wed do best to ignore. Problem is, women are the 
most lethal drug one can indulge in. Infinitely more addictive than coke and physically more devastating than heroin, the second a girl 
lets you put your lips to hers, shes selling you on junk that youll 
never be able to kick. Sure, Ive relinquished cigarettes for the most part, and my substance abuse is now entering a somewhat accept
able realm, but I just cant get off the women. Pun intended.In retrospect, I know about as much about the fairer sex now as I 
did then. Women are just as mystifying and dangerous now as ever, 
its just that I no longer operate in absolute ignorance of their posi
tion in the world and their ability to exert control over anything with 
a penis. Its just not fair. Ive had nothing to do with the oppression 
that has plagued women throughout time. Hell, I grew up in a 
household where the two women contained therein had a numerically-superior group of males on strings shorter than my patience.
Yet I am still the enemy in their eyes. All men are. We are making 
reparations for the likes of Henry VIII, Sean Connery, and Shaft. 
Unwillingly and almost unknowingly, we are paying off a debt that 
makes our nations look like pocket change.
And the sickest part of it, my dear friends, is that we enjoy it. We like being dumb and wrong. We luxuriate in buying meals and trin
kets, pitiful representations of and testaments to our devotion, but 
mildly respectable nonetheless. Oh woe are we.
Thats it for this week. Im tired, pissy, and in need of nicotine. 
Perhaps another few days will yield more entertaining ideas. Then again, perhaps not. In any case, show up at the Underground this 
Friday at 8pm. Aether, in all their glory, will be there and so will I. 
So if youve become as sick of the current poor excuse for a music 
scene as I have, swing by and luxuriate in the stylings of a band who 
never forgot that music is best played passionately, loud, and live.
Sean Mintus is a junior professional and creative writing major. We 
remind you that the 10pm show is completely different from the 12pm. 
Please try the veal.
Crisis economics hold Key(nes) to future
DavidAnderson
My editor wants to kill me, for 
this column is coming in several 
hours late. I really had no idea what I wanted to write about. I 
could respond to Sean Mintuss 
astute observations on the advantages of quitting smoking, or I could go off on the impossible 
nature of defeating terrorism forever, or I could again shock myself 
and say that I support the current administrations willingness to 
think things through, but I really 
did not know what I wanted to 
write about. Thankfully, I had to 
work tonight, washing dishes and 
doing scullery duties at a local 
dive. I finally had an idea caused by 
a bunch of drunks who were talking as I was changing kegs and tak
ing out a barrel of trash. As I was 
walking by a crowd of thoroughly inebriated forty-somethings, avoid
ing the sloshing pitchers of IC 
(none of that light junk), I heard 
one man loudly declare that we 
need Reagan back in office. Thankfully the toilet was working 
tonight so there was nothing in the 
garbage barrel for me to throw at this fine, paying patron.
The drunk man loudly proclaimed 
that the country was on the right track in the 1980s, and that we 
showed mean old Quaddafi who was 
boss when we bombed empty tents 
after his operatives attacked a 
German disco, and that the govern
ment was not entirely evil. I do not 
understand why Reagan is lionized 
while Clinton is demonized for the 
same exact action of ordering high
explosives precisely delivered to 
empty tents in the middle of inhospitable deserts. I do not understand 
the entire Reagan is a living saint 
and the root of all that is good in the world mentality expressed by a sig
nificant portion of the Republican 
party. I do not understand how a 
man who ran as a fiscally conserva
tive anti-deficit hawk is praised for 
quadrupling the national debt while 
another man who ran advocating a 
moderate expansion of services but brought the budget under control 
is demonized.
This strange hero worship is logi
cally inconsistent, but is loudly proclaimed by the leadership of the 
GOP. The flaws of reality are strik
ing the GOP right now as they
their new income. Additionally, 
since the tax cut is poorly designed, any acceleration will produce mas
sive fiscal hemorrhages at the end 
of the decade, when we can least afford it.
Accelerating already-approved 
reductions at least has some economic merit. That can not be said about 
other proposals which seek to take advantage of national shock and the 
stifling of any reasoned debate 
against potential options as unpatriotic. One proposal is to reduce or 
eliminate the capital gains tax. This 
proposal will do nothing positive in the short term, and cost too much once the economy recovers in the 
longer term. In the short term, reduc
ing the capital gains tax will probably
The knee jerk economic response of the 
Republican party at the moment is that 
all problems can be solved by tax cuts 
and tax cuts alone.
attempt to respond the the current 
crisis. The knee jerk economic response of the Republican party at 
the moment is that all problems can 
be solved by tax cuts and tax cuts 
alone. President Bush and the 
House leadership are pushing for 
an acceleration of the previously 
passed, and poorly designed, tax plan in the hope that this will look 
like they are doing something while 
the economy sputters. Accelerating 
the reduction of marginal rates may 
have some benefit to the economy, 
but not enough for people are still 
worried about whether theyll be 
laid off next week, and therefore 
they will not spend too much of
lead to more stock market profit tak
ing and losses. A further decrease in the stock market will lead to a further 
reduction in the wealth effect that, so 
far, has allowed consumers to spend. 
And finally, the Northeastern liberal 
in me says that we should look at proposals that help the other 90 percent 
of the population who are not direct 
beneficiaries of this proposal. There 
are several other proposals that provide little short term economic bene
fits but provide plenty of ideological 
and theological comfort for some 
Republicans who never paid atten
tion to introductory economics after 
the first test.
See ANDERSON, page A8
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Meilon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
STAFFWRITERS 
Dave Anderson, Amanda Chase, Krissy 
Choi, Lindsay Clark, Albert Cohen, Cam 
Crews, Nina Durai, Ryan Friedman, Pearl 
S. Goldman, LaRita Hamilton, Ryan 
Hamilton, Tiffany Lee, Charles Martin, 
Sean Mintus, Jennifer Resick, Christian 
Restifo, R.J. Sikdar, Vivek Sridharan
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Warit Achavanuntakul, Avinash Baliga, 
Kevin Burns,, Martin Hock, Ann Lewis, 
To Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason Slater, Zac 
Smith
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Jen Airone, Sally Bozzuto, 
Jeremy Canceko, Robert Chiu, Jeff 
Cullers, Anthony DAuria, Jeff Easter, 
Sofia Gutierr, Matthew Lanken, Shanmei 
Lim, Michael Raisman, Lindsay Spriggs, 
Gary Tsai, John Whiteman
DARKROOM 
Eric Barker, Erica Barnes, Eve Chen
PRODUCTION 
A.R. Abid, Ekta Agrawal, Michael 
Castellana, Eve Chen, Jen Cheng, Lisa 
Gentry, Nithya George, Gautam Jain, Joy 
Lee, Julie Ludwick, Jonathan Minkowitz, 
Aarthi Padmanabhn, Knot Pipatsrisawat, 
Mark Rau, Yeming Shi, Neal Shyam, Nat 
Torut
COPY
Joyce Boss, Michael Croland, Claire 
Jauregui, Alexander Meseguer, Kristen 
Romonovich, Laura Vaillancourt, Julie 
Watt, Jeremy Wortman
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sonni Abatta, Adam Atkinson, Aditya 
Agrawal, Pratik Agarwal, Sharad Bajaj, 
Andy Baker, Ankur Bhasin, Fatima 
Boujarwah, Mayank Bubna, Jonathan 
Brathwaite, LeeAnn Dickinson, Kathleen 
Fischer, Arthur Goh, Alissa Green, 
Gautam Jain, Christopher Kim, Justin Ker, 
John King, Maria LaMendola, Elizabeth 
Levin, Colin McCabe, Julia Myers, Chirag 
Nangig, Tejas Pathak, Alex Perry, Surya 
Singh, Sinduja Sriniavasan, Wendy Wu
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It Is print
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writers address and phone number for verifi
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica
tion. Copyright  2001 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
Jennifer Joeyen-Waldorf
Sophomore
Physics
Id get a tattoo on my shoulder ... of 
...a little dragon, because I think its neat! Im part Chinese.
James Bond Jr.
Junior
Professional Writing
I already have a tattoo  its a 33, 
and its my lucky number.
Leo Ash Evens
Senior
Musical Theater
I think Id like one on the bottom of 
my back, and I think Id like it to be a fish... Ill always like fish.
Y-vonne Hutchinson
Junior
Drama
I have an adinkra  its an African 
symbol that means nothings perma
nent.
Patrick Anderson
First-year student 
Architecture
Id get a rectangle on my arm, because its simple and its kind of what Im all about: simplicity.
PERSONSOPINION
Compiled by Emma Rehm 
Photos by Katie Aerni
i Youve finally made it to college and escaped from your parents. Now what? Stay 
up late, pierce your nose ... get a tattoo?A
If you could get any tattoo, any placwhat would you get and why?

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Dissection job:Writer reexamines Kers argument
f
Christian Restifo
Well, I was planning to write about (the lack of) business leadership in the wake of the September 11 attack, 
but Justin Kers excellently written column struck a chord with me last week. Mr. Ker raised several points that Ive 
seen throughout the varied and wide-ranging debate over 
the attacks, the US response, and the issue of justice.Mr. Ker rightly points out that we should not confuse the 
hijackers with Muslims the world over who do not advo
cate this type of violence. Hate, indeed, drove them to their actions, though I would argue that a hate so deep belies mental instability, either inherent or planted and 
nourished by someone else.However, I feel he fails to present several points in their proper context, namely evidence against bin Laden, the 
Palestinian-Israeli issue, which I call the dying Iraqi children issue, and possible future operations against 
Afghanistan.In regards to evidence against bin Laden, the US has 
quickly gathered evidence that points to him. True, the government has not released much of this. However, it has 
wanted to protect both its intelligence sources and prevent 
leaks that could help others avoid capture or surveillance. What it has shown to others, though, appears to be very 
convincing. NATO formally invoked its mutual defense 
clause after the US presented evidence. (Please note that 
this occurred after Mr. Ker wrote his column. One problem that all columnists face is new evidence that could alter 
viewpoints appearing after a paper goes to print.)
Mr. Ker raises the issue of justice, yet one must realize 
that grand jury proceedings in the US are usually secret. 
Prosecutors and police do not have to make evidence pub
lic (and often do not) in order to protect the investigation. 
The same goes for bin Laden. Now, if and when hes captured and tried in the US, then the evidence must be pre
sented to him for his defense.
In terms of being guilty before proven innocent, I com
pletely agree with Mr. Ker. The US is formally demanding 
that Afghanistan turn over bin Laden to answer for his alleged crimes. Should he be turned over, I highly doubt 
the US would kill him outright. Just as with the Lockerbie 
and World Trade Center bombings, we would most likely 
try him in a criminal court. One purpose of our military 
action is to capture him as the lead conspirator for a crime 
perpetrated on US soil.
Of course, lets be brutally honest. If he and his lieutenants should put up a fight and be killed, the US is not going to lose 
sleep over it. If Baumhammers got one between the eyes dur
ing his killing spree, the result would still be the same.
Mr. Ker also discusses the Palestinian-Israeli issue, 
implying that diplomacy would solve our (and the Middle Easts) problems. One should note, however, that the US 
has tried, and keeps trying, to use diplomacy to solve the crisis. The parties have met on US soil several times; they 
reached (and broke) agreements; the US continues to urge 
them to find a solution.The Palestinian-Israeli issue exists as only part of the reason for what drives bin Laden and supporters to plot 
attacks against the US. The US invasion of Iraq in response to that countrys invasion of Kuwait infuriated 
them since the US was using Saudi Arabian land for its 
operations. US support of regimes also contributes to this hatred. Solving the Palestinian-Israeli issue alone will not 
solve the problem.
And that brings me to my next point concerning Mr. 
Kers column. The sanctions that kill Iraqi children are not American sanctions. They are United Nations sanctions 
that require the Iraqi government to open all facilities for inspection so UN inspectors can find weapons of mass 
destruction. True, the US possesses a great deal of influ
ence as a member of the UN Security Council, but it is not 
unilaterally enforcing these restrictions. If we must lay blame, lay it at the feet of all member nations.
Speaking of all unilateralism, Mr. Ker does not mention 
that not just the US is preparing for possible operations against Afghanistan. Many other countries have and will 
contribute, though the US will most likely do most of the groundwork.
He also fails to realize that the President will not simply 
launch some Tomahawks to get good ratings. As the administration has pointed out, and as, I believe, many 
Americans realize, these operations will not have a CNN/Persian Gulf War feel to them. Many unexciting 
(and unreported) activities will take place. The adminis
tration is pursuing a long-term policy on many fronts, not 
simply dropping some cluster bombs to make us all 
feel good.Finally, Mr. Ker seems to ignore the fact that the US will most likely not bomb Afghanistan so as to expand the 
physical and social destruction. To do so would only 
reinforce the US vs. Islam viewpoint that the US is 
working hard to dispel. What I believe the administration 
really wants is instead an interim government headed by 
the former king of Afghanistan that works to set up a 
more stable, representative government. The US would greatly desire such a thing, especially since the Taliban 
was supported from people in Pakistan, a country that has nuclear weapons. Such a country and govern
ment would undoubtedly receive a fair amount of US aid 
to rebuild.
Christian M. Restifo is a second-year Flex-Time MBA stu
dent at GSIA. You can email him at cr2r@andrew.cmu.edu.Liberals need to think twice, realize that theyre part of the problem
Timothy Lo
Contrary to Andrea Pellandras pre
mature insinuations in last weeks letter to the editor, I did not forget to tell the 
readers about international law, but 
merely chose to write about a higher 
one  one that supercedes even international law. This, of course, is natural 
law  the law written from the heart. 
This law is given to mankind by its Creator. Man-made laws exist to mani
fest natural law. Some people have cho
sen to suppress it, others have chosen to 
ignore it  but every man is account
able to it. No law can boast legitimacy 
without first submitting to it. Sadly, 
much of international law does not. It is 
this same international law, dictated by 
the United Nations, that booted the 
United States from the Human Rights 
Council, and in turn, installed Sudan  
a country that is notorious for its slave 
trade and government sponsored abuse of its own people.
America, the moral giant? Hardly! 
Liberalism of the 60s to the present has long disqualified America of that title. 
But what other nation comes close?
The hypocrisy of American liberalism is gut wrenching and shameful. 
The New Feminists fight tooth and 
nail for the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment, but turn their 
backs on their sisters in Afghanistan 
who have acid poured on their faces 
for merely refusing to wear a veil. 
They claim to carry on the ideas of 
Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady 
Stanton, but abandon the enlightenment ideals on which the movement 
was built. Secular reformed Jews 
are scandalized by a ChrisOtmas tree 
at City Hall, but remain silent when 
Hamas calls for the destruction of America and Israel. They are quick to 
blame America for its sanctions in 
Iraq, falsely accusing her of starving 
millions of Iraqi children but are 
silent when Saddam Hussein destroys 
two entire Kurdish cities with mus
tard gas and scuds  destroying tens 
of thousands of lives. They say 
American policies in the region cause 
women and children to live in abject 
poverty but remained mute for the 
past 10 years when Hussein spent bil
lions of dollars to build dozens of 
presidential palaces used to store 
mustard gas and scuds  money that 
could have gone to provide clean 
water, food, and milk for his people.
At the Pentagon, a prayer service was 
held during government time, on 
government property, and by government 
officials, and not a peep was heard from 
theACLU. It was one of the most beautiful 
scenes I have ever witnessed.
Even taking into consideration her 
shortcomings and mistakes, no other country has proven itself to be the 
greatest force for good in human histo
ry. To deny this is not a mark of liberal open-mindedness, but rather a serious 
sign of ignorance and hatred. America 
is better than China, Cuba, Iraq, and the ruling Taliban party of Afghanistan  
in political philosophy and as a nation. 
We have free elections, they dont. They 
put non-criminals in prison, we dont. 
We have religious freedom, they dont. 
They persecute homosexuals, we dont. They force women to have abortions, 
we dont. And the list goes on. Ask me 
again when these nations hold a free election for its people.
If one good thing can be gleaned 
from the horrors of September 11, it 
would have to be the silencing of the 
ACLU. For the very first time in decades, Americans could pray to 
their Creator wherever they wanted, whenever they wanted. At the 
Pentagon, a prayer service was held 
during government time, on government property, and by government 
officials, and not a peep was heard 
from the ACLU. It was one of the most 
beautiful scenes I have ever wit
nessed. If liberals would just take a 
moment to stop and think about the 
silly ideas they support, they would 
realize that it is, in fact, their selfish
ness and not Americas foreign poli
cies, that has threatened freedom itself. Perhaps Tom Clancy described 
it best when he said: Liberals like to paint pretty pictures, and when peo
ple die as a result of their inactions, 
they like to build nice memorials to 
help people forget about their mis
takes. But conservatives build 
bridges for people, and if the bridge 
collapses, they mourn and then begin 
to build another one. It is the liber
als who are legitimately torn by 
President Bushs question, Are you 
with America, or with the terrorists? 
They bring shame upon themselves.Take the risk of giving change a 
chance to work? I can assure you, 
Ms. Pellandra, no other nation has taken a bigger risk or a bigger invest
ment in changing the world. You 
write that the United States support
ed and financed state terror in 
Afghanistan. Contrary to popular 
thought, the United States did not 
erupt into Afghanistan in the 1970s, 
nor did it finance state terror. In the 
late 70s, a small and highly unpopu
lar communist movement began in 
the region and the Soviets supported 
it and thus it came into ruling power. 
At the request of Muslim and Arab 
powers, the United States intervened. 
The Afghani people did not agree 
with the Soviet invasion, and formed 
their own militia  the Mujaheddin. With the aid of American surface to 
air missiles, they succeeded in over
throwing Communism and the 
Soviets. It was then that Ronald Reagan said in private to William 
Buckley that the cold war was over. 
The Taliban, an extreme right wing 
sect of the Mujaheddin, slowly came 
to power in the subsequent years. The 
United States had no reason to believe 
at the time that the Taliban would come to power, and it was reasonable 
to expect that the Mujaheddin was in 
some respects good. It is perverse to blame the United States for the pover
ty and backwardness of Arab and 
Muslim countries today, when those 
evils largely stem from the failures of 
those societies to create civil govern
ments or free democracies. America 
should not lift its embargoes and 
sanctions on these evil nations; by 
doing so she in essence gives food and money to a government that will in 
turn kill its own people. That policy, 
and not the current, would be unjust. 
Is that what Ms. Pellandra supports?
Timothy Lo is a first-year accelerated 
masters student at the Heinz School. 
He welcomes all reponsible replies to 
his article.
kjodL'aJLcLtfuct
'nnot Be
Or
nt&iiSm 
a n excusec
* Ap o litical ga in
10,05.01
Racial Profiling:When is it ever appropriate?
Ko Nakatsu
For the concern of our own safety, I propose 
we move toward racial profiling on anyone who 
looks like a terrorist. We should apprehend 
them and strip them away of their civil liber
ties, even if they could be innocent. I mean, its 
whats best for the rest of America, right? So all police officers, military personnel, and security 
officials should harass people based solely on race, national origin, or ethnicity. Go ahead, its 
okay. The potential terrorists that we should target first and foremost are the white males 
driving in vans. White males in vans beware! 
You may be evil like Timothy McVeigh and kill 
some innocent people, so if you are a white 
male driving a van, Im sorry, but its whats 
best for the country. The police will verbally 
and physically harass you, look through your 
personal belongings, and take you in for ques
tioning, just for being born with the same color 
skin as McVeigh. You may be innocent but its 
whats best for the rest of us, right?
Dont worry, white males of America, Im just 
joking. This type of racial profiling would 
never happen to you because luckily for you, 
people who look like you run this country. But racial profiling is an everyday atrocity which 
happens to others who happen to be born non
white. Most of us get to live in this country with 
visions of freedom, equality, and justice for all. 
The rest of us who are not white, are harassed, 
scrutinized, questioned, and looked down 
upon by the very people who are supposed to 
be serving and protecting us.
Weve all heard of the African American 
population being targeted by the police for 
just being black. Now with the recent attacks, 
America is targeting people who are Middle 
Eastern. Many innocent Middle Easterners 
already have been denied passage on air
planes just for having skin tones like the 
recent attackers. John Ashcroft has already 
allowed the INS to increase without reason
the number of hours that someone can be 
detained to 48  48 hours is a long time for any person to have to live in fear, especially if 
theyre innocent. And now, the Justice Department is trying to pass new legislation 
that would allow people to be deported solely 
for the suspicion of terrorism. Even people 
with green cards are not safe, as they are 
included in these groups of people who could be deported.
Racial profiling is just another way 
America will degrade itself. It goes against 
its sole belief of the right to life, liberty, and 
the pursuit of happiness for all people. The way to solve this terrorist problem is not 
through targeting potential terrorists, 
because potential terrorists may also be potential innocent civilians who have the 
right like everyone else to live in peace, not
Weve all heard of the 
African American popu
lation being targeted... 
now its people who are 
Middle Eastern
in fear of the government. If were flying 
flags and supporting this country were currently living in, then we should stand by 
what the flag symbolizes and not allow racial profiling to continue. Human beings have the 
potential to be evil, like the terrorists, but 
that includes all humans; you and I are no 
exception. There are humans, though, who 
have the potential to accomplish great, won
derful, and positive things, this includes 
Middle Easterners, blacks, white males dri
ving vans, you and me. So lets make positive 
changes and find alternative solutions to sim
ple accusations based on assumptions.
Ko Nakatsu is a senior design major. He wel
comes all responsible replies to his article.
No thanks, you can keep your tax cut
ANDERSON, from page A7 
So what should we do if 
supply-side tax cuts are not the answer to a short term 
economic slump? I say that 
we should reaffirm Keynes 
insight that demand is often 
the cause of economic reces
sions and booms. The federal government has already 
approved a 55 billion dollar 
stimulus package with 
the airline shareholder 
bailout (again, economically 
inefficient in my opinion) 
and the 40 billion dollars for recovery in New York City 
and military expenses. This is a start, for the vast majori
ty of that money will quickly 
be consumed and then circu
lated through the economy. 
Once all of the dollars are finished circulating, this 
package could account for 
several hundred billion dol
lars in economic activity. 
However, this is probably not enough.
We can count on more short term military spend
ing, although national missile defense should be 
opposed as it is effectively 
useless against probable 
threats, even if it worked 
right. The federal govern
ment should also rescind 
several parts of the recently 
passed tax cut. The easiest 
area to repeal is the repeal of 
the estate tax. That is a polit
ical gimmick worth 600 bil
lion dollars over the next 
decade. This money should 
be used to fix the alternative 
minimum tax, which will benefit far more people, and 
also appease the long term 
bond market, so interest 
rates are lowered. 
Additionally, the federal 
government should help 
rebuild lower Manhattan 
because the government 
failed to provide a collective, public good, namely securi
ty. That job will cost another
50 to 60 billion dollars. 
Finally, in the short term 
stimulus area, the govern
ment should adapt Professor 
Fischers idea of reducing 
payroll taxes so that every
one receives additional income. Will any of these 
proposals be enough to solve 
the economic sniffles of the 
nation by themselves? No, but a combination of smart 
budgeting, short term stimu
lation, and added cash 
income to those with the 
greatest cash constraints (the working poor) will pro
duce these benefits. I guess 
the lesson is that Reagan got 
it wrong  taxes sometimes 
are a good thing when public 
goods are provided  and 
Keynes got it right.
David M. Anderson is a firstyear accelerated masters stu
dent at the Heinz School. He 
welcomes all reponsible replies 
to his article. !

---------------------------------------------------

Deans List
Spring 2001
Carnegie Instititute of Technology proudly 
acknowledges the academic achievements of 
the undergraduates whose names appear on this list
Carnegie Mellon
ENGINEERING
Abu-Sbaih, Haitham 
Appel, Joy C.
Ashe, Colin A. 
Bajoria, Aditi 
Barry, Robert A.
Bell, Jonathan L. 
Berngartt, Rebecca M. 
Cela, Eduardo M. 
Chan, Wan-Yu 
Chin, Jonathan A. 
Chong, Jike 
Colonna, Brian R. 
Crimi, Thomas V. 
Dorn, Vanessa L. 
Fleming, Francis J. 
Fong, Philip W. 
Francis, Andrew J. 
Gardner, Andrew S.
Allen, Jeffrey 
Alvarez, Adam H.
Ang, Justiin 
Berna, Mary J.
Boder, Ryan T.
Boone, Cameron E.
Boss, Joyce M.
Brake, Matthew R. 
Bubien, David M. 
Carother, Stacey L. 
Casazza, James G. 
Chang, Paul 
Cherackal, Chacko M. 
Clutter III, James H.
Conn, Kristin B.
Costa, Albert G.
Cozzie, Anthony E. 
Crosbie, Pamela J. 
Dence, Sarah K. 
Dheeravongkit, Arbtip A. 
Elman, Jeremy H.
Favi, Claudio 
Fong, Eric L.
Furukawa, Junichi
Airone, Jennifer L. 
Antimary, Christopher R. 
Baker, Brian C.
Balducci, Anthony G. 
Baptista, Mark F.
Beattie, Michael J. 
Bender, Matthew D. 
Bogard, Warren D. 
Chaipah, Kornchawal N. 
Coleman, Laura M.
Cox, Daniel 
Csider, Christopher J. 
Dicicco, Matthew A. 
Doshi, Kalpesh D. 
Driscoll, Scott C.
Ahluwalia, Punit R. 
Ames, Jonathan R. 
Anderson, Benjamin S. 
Ang, Jianyun 
Ang, Wei Khai 
Artati, Ira 
Attai, Randy R.
Batra, Rohan 
Beglin, Thomas W. 
Beigelmacher, Steven S 
Bloomfield, Jeffrey R. 
Bohn, Richard E.
Boles, Steben T.
Bothra, Ankur 
Britton, Zachary T. 
Chao, Eveline I. 
Chastek, James M. 
Chopard, Mary E. 
Chow, Jicai J. 
Danielson, Michael W. 
Dave, Nirav H.
seniors
Giarnella, Vincent A. 
Gerry, Carina J.
Han, Jason M.
Hopke, Frederick, K. 
Hula, Aaron C.
Hurst, Aaron P.
Hurst, Jonathan W. 
Janes, Katherine H. 
Juhasz, Matthew D. 
Kelly, Christina A.
Kim, Chin 
Kogan, David 
Kwan, Ting Yin 
Lee, Leonard 
Lim, Liam
Mackinnon, Catherine 
Mao, Yuxuan 
Miyakawa, Laura S.
Moskal, Ryan P. 
Neuman, Julia A.
Ng, Ham Hua 
Nofi, Gregory V. 
Okerholm, Andrea M. 
Ota, Nathan K.
Pierry, Robert F. 
Politslcy, Aaron D. 
Pollice, Stephanie L. 
Ramsey, John A. 
Rogers, John G. 
Savery, Michele D. 
Senger-Schenck, 
Domenic 
Sensi, Maria C. 
Slaton, Zachary A. 
Smolens, Jared
juniors
Goodson, Emma K.
Grace, James R.
Hamel, Gerard E. 
Harshman, James M. 
Helmick, Daniel L.
Hewitt III, Thomas E. 
Hoffman, Laurel A.
Hsu, Michael L.
Jackson, Harrison J. 
Jirawongkraisorn, Santit 
Jirawongkraisorn, Sittan P. 
Jou, David 
Kaplan, David S.
Keil, Shane J.
Kerner, Sam L.
Koschil, Christian D.
Krug, Matthew E.
Lahoti, Saurabh 
Lai, Terrance C.
Lawler, Ian M.
Lechleitner, Sara E.
Lee, Louis J.
Leifeste, Heather D.
Leung, Malcoln W.
Lim, Ee Thian 
Lin, Ann Chi 
Liu, Pei
Madden, Thomas M. 
Mathier, Vincent 
McKinley, Joshua K. 
Mehta, Rajat 
Miller, Eric D.
Mittal, Ruchi 
Muckle, Stephen A. 
Niederberger, Christopher 
Ong, Simin 
Pak, Kisang R.
Parent, Eric L.
Pardini, Matthew M. 
Paripontpochanapisuti, 
Napong 
Pinyopusarerk, Chanan 
Pitkethley, Michelle L. 
Quandt, Lynna H.
Rao, Rohit U.
Reed, P. C.
sophomores
Echard, Trent A. 
Green, Jordan 
Gutowski, David M. 
Herman, Kenneth L. 
Hui, Jonathan W. 
Hunter, Emily C. 
Hynes, Christopher D. 
Kam, Yuk-Chung 
Kaye, Michael H.
Kim, Na-Young 
Kim, Hyo-Jin 
Krauland, Gregory A. 
Krishnan, Vinod D. 
Lauwers, Tom B.
Lee, Chung H.
Lim, Hanyong 
Liscio, Stacy A.
Loh, Woon Sien 
Lohmiller, Michael T. 
MacDonald, Aarian S. 
Mathur, Adeep 
Mieszkowski, Phillip M. 
Nearhoof, Jeremy R. 
Ng, Kwanjee 
Pappacena, Kriaten E. 
Park, Hyun J. 
Peterson, Carl R. 
Pierce, Christopher R. 
Renata, Melamud
first year
Deangelis, David 
Diller, Peter R.
Donegan, Tim L. 
Echeverra, Joseph G. 
Edmondson, Zachery K. 
Eow, Andy K.
Feldman, Jarett L.
Fung, Ka Kei Kenneth 
Gerard, Rebecca D. 
Gestner, Brian J.
Ghosh, Debmallo S. 
Gilbert, Benjamin A. 
Gupta, Arunesh 
Gutierrez, Raul M. 
Helgeson, Matthew E. 
Hermawan, Andi C. 
Hersan, Thiago G. 
Holman, Doualas C. 
Hosier, Mariel A. 
Howard, Kristopher E. 
Jung, Woon H. 
Kamishima, Shintaro
Karlow, Benjamin 
Khan, Hassaan M.
Kohl, Charles M. 
Kushner, Adam L. 
Ley-Wild, RuyJ.
Lim, Kay C.
Lin, Jeffrey T.
Ma, Wan Shun V.
Mack, Brendan C. 
Malaiyandi, Prasanna K. 
Markowitz, Jared J. 
Mays, Lam A.
Milder, Peter A. 
Miyashiro, Robert T. 
Napaporn, Visaryt 
Ng, Choh Wei V. 
Oberreuter, Robert P. 
Park, Sung June 
Patnaik, Rohit 
Pinelis, Lev 
Ramaswami, Prem
Snyder, Russell J.
Soni, Vishal G.
Steele, Sara R.
Stidsen, Christian T. 
Stolt, Benjamin W. 
Strohl, Matthew R. 
Summers, Alexandra N. 
Tay, Choon Hong 
Toohey, Nathan M. 
Tritch, Kevin B.
Vance, Kirk E.
Vieira, Miguel C.
Wach, Peter F.
Wang, David 
Wen, Chih-Chia 
Wolfe, Stephen M. 
Yarnell, Richard C 
Yuen, Dsu-Bei J.
Sato, Gaku 
Sauser, Jerome 
Schapp, Lutz 
Schellhase, Michael C 
Schmidt, Peter O. 
Schwicking, Carsten A. 
Shah, Prateek P.
Smith, Zachary 
Snell, Katrina 
Stadelmann, Daniel 
Stein, Meir 
Suwansantisuk, 
Wathcharapan 
Takahashi, Nicole K. 
Thomas, Matthew B. 
Thompson, Roy S. 
Tong, Kim Yaw 
Wan, Howe Chung 
Wang, Alan 
Wells, Eloissa D.
Wick, Matthew E. 
Williams, Regina I.
Xu, Ru-Gnag 
Zimpfer, Eric R.
Rossi, Michael R. 
Rovner, Vyacheslav V. 
Royce, Sara M. 
Scarborough, Justin M. 
Schrass, Sarah J. 
Shabanova, Kseniya A. 
Shah, Anirudh B.
Sh reff 1er, Matthew J. 
Shukla, Vivek 
Smith, Alexander B. 
Solis, Earl Osman P. 
Stokan, Bradley W. 
Williams, Elizabeth J. 
Wolf, Brian T.
Reifenberg, John P. 
Rosa, Matthew D.
See, Wee Chiang 
Shah, Parag P.
Sheoni, Mithun Kumar 
Smith Meghan L. 
Stoler, Adam W.
Szteo, Gregory L.
Tan, Yinglan 
Tan, Jit Ken 
Tang, Shiu Hin 
Underwood, Derek S. 
Voss, Ryan M.
Wang, Yuchun 
Weissert, Michael A. 
Welander, Adam M. 
Werner, Karolina M. 
Xu, Anthony C.
Yadav, Neha 
Yew, Eric C.
Yuen, Wai-Ching
HOW TO USE THE BATHROOM.
@o you know that you use up to 55 gallons 
of water a day in die bathroom? It's true. So heres 
some simple bathroom training to help conserve * 
water. Kim off die faucet while brushing your 
teeth, lake shorter showers. Put a weighted jug in 
your toilet tank. Itll ait water loss bv 15%.
And if you cant remember these tips, take this 
I paper with you the next, time you go. 1-800-MY-SHARE
IT'S A CONNECTED WORLD. DO YOUR SHARE.
n.Earth Share
Got ISIC?
Accepted at over 17,000 
locations worldwide. 
Great Benefits at 
home and abroad!
{SIC offers you the world at a discount!
 movies * museums * activities  attractions
 airfare * e-mail ? phone calls  restaurants
Receive a free ISIC T-shirt with the purchase 
of your ISIC (while supplies last)!
118 Meyran Ave - Oakland 
683-1881
1-800-2COUNCIL
America's Perha to Siudsm pasr
www.counciltravel.com
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
128 N. Craig Street
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
HEADACHES, STRESS, NECK PAIN, BACK PAIN,
OR JUST WANT BETTER HEALTH??
Berman Chiropractic has been serving the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past 17years.
Please Call For an Appointment... Today!! 
687-1112
PROVIDERS FOR AON SELECT, BC/BS, HEALTH AMERICA, UPMC 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
AcapulcoCancnJamaicaBahamasFlorida
Promote Trips 
at Carnegie Mellon 
Earn Cash and Go Free reamitior
tall tnr ttotniMH 1-800-648-4849 call tor details... www-sfcfraveUom
frezfeNJAYS-bVieupSAvetoe ew*v\cAU.I-OO-H68-8887.uOtrc Srv>co o> jr
EirttiShar.
ESSAY CONTEST 2002Im +m9 +m I 1 tI I rnmm I mm mm
NSi xaAi lAiuia
Perha rp sitr'm
SUGGESTED TOPICS
IWty are ice hen? How arc ice to meet our ethical obligations?
Reflect on the most profound moral dilemma you 
haz'e encountered and u'hat it has taught you about ethics.
What ethical issue concerns you most and what 
concrete proposals would you make to deal with it?
ELIGIBILITY: FULL-TIME JUNIOR AND SENIOR UNDERGRADUATES 
DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 2001
In addition to completing a Student Entry' Form, die student is required to have a professor review the essay and fill out a Faculty Sponsor Form. Arty interested professor may act as a Faculty Sponsor. The college or university 
is not required to have an official coordinator for the contest; however, your campus may have, or wish to establish, an internal set of procedures.
FIRST PRIZE: $5,000 
SECOND PRIZE: $2,500 THIRD PRIZE: $1,500 
TWO HONORABLE MENTIONS: $500 EACH
Entry' form and detailed guidelines available online at WMrw.eliewieselfoandation.org, or by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to:
The Elie Wiesel Prize in Ethics The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity 529 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1802 New York, NY 10017 
Telephone: 212.490.7777

---------------------------------------------------

AoTHE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
a tes Ftf Mttxmiy* tmw. U-C.
TOP MUSIC ARTISTS! LIVE PERFORMANCES! EXOTIC LOCATIONS!
PePP PrePPPMcknight.. s i
 wO&JL
imagi
|CNT6RTAINMei
www.image-entertainment.com 
2001 IMAGE ENTERTAINMENT, INC.
Coming Soon to DVD 8 VHS:
SUGAR RAY
in Australia
ALANIS MORISSETTE
in the NAVAJO NATIONS
mmnde
in Vietnam
MYA
in Sicily
MTV-GOES-NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC!
-ROLLING STONE
^"goody myo'udrmi OnCue MEDIAPLAY
O -4gMhf m KnowM^l,,- MUSIC ? BOOKS ? MOVIOS Youf Entertainment Superstore
Have any funny photos of your own?
Send them to jdavin@andrew.cmu.edu and we will 
select the best photos to be printed somewhere 
in The Tartan each week.
Caption is optional and selection of photos 
is at the discretion of The Tartan.
As poised to win World Series
Behnam FarahpourrPhoto Co-Editor
The womens volleyball team was on top of things at this weekends tournament, losing only to Emory University.
PLAYOFFS, from page All 
the Yankees and the pesky 
Athletics. Though they cooled off a 
little bit at the very end of the season, the As have been an unstop
pable force since the All-Star break, while the Yankees are literally limp
ing into the post season with a number of nagging injuries. You dont get to be three-time defend
ing World Champions without 
overcoming some adversity, but the Yankees will need everyone on 
their roster at 100 percent to have a 
chance against Oakland.Oaklands young rotation is shap
ing up to replace the Braves fear
some foursome as the best in the league and that Jason Giambi guy 
can play. Lets also not forget that 
Oakland won over 100 games. They would have won any other division 
this year by at least seven games. 
New York wont go without a fight, 
but the As arent going to be denied 
two years in a row. In the longest 
first-round series, Oakland goes to the wire, but wins in five.Whether or not Seattle set a new 
record for wins (remember, I dont
know what happened yesterday), 
all it gets them right now is a series against a veteran Indians team that still has the scariest top to bottom offense in the league. The catch is 
that no one in the Indians rotation can pitch worth anything anymore, 
as evidenced by season-ending 
series losses to the Royals and Blue Jays.
Like the Astros, the Indians best 
pitcher this year is a rookie, and, 
judging by Rick Ankiels perfor
mance last year, that doesnt work 
in the playoffs. It hurts, but I have 
to go with Seattle in a three-game 
sweep.
That brings the two best teams in baseball together for what should 
be an all-out war disguised as the 
ALCS. Technically, Seattle won the 
season series, but 10-9 isnt a very convincing margin by any stretch of 
the imagination. Dont think for 
one second that Oakland will be 
more tired after a longer firstround series, either. The As want to 
prove that last years division 
championship was no fluke, while 
Seattle has to show that this years
isnt.
Both teams have excellent starters, solid bullpens (though Seattles has been known to be shaky on more than a few occa
sions), and offenses that produce. 
Not much separates the two squads, but I think that Oakland, 
having toiled in Seattles shadow 
all season long, will want it that much more. The As go to their first post-Bash Brothers World Series in 
a seven-game squeaker.
Once again, immediately dispel 
any thoughts that Oakland will be 
tired after a long series. After all, 
this is baseball: two or three days 
off between series is like a lifetime. 
This time, it doesnt matter at all 
who comes out of that mess of pos
sibilities in the NL. Im officially 
dubbing the As my Team of Destiny 
for this post season. After six 
games, theyll settle for World 
Champions.
Matt Brun is a senior ECE major 
who really hopes the Indians do win 
at least one game to make skipping 
class to watch them worthwhile.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN * OCTOBER 8, 2001All
Make Tartan games fun once againip Thistledown
Washington University (4-2, 1-0 UAA) at Carnegie Mellon (4-0, 1-0). 2 pm on WRCT, 88.3 FM.
Poll vault: Last weeks American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) poll ranked the Tartans 23rd in the nation. Wash U had been ranked as high as 24th before losing to Rhodes College in Tennessee.
The skinny: Last season Wash U manhandled CMU en route to a 20-3 win. Junior QB Mike Wykosky played serviceably after he replaced QB Eric Zimpfer in the second quarter when Zimpfer suffered a partially separated shoulder. CMU leads the all-time series 12-6. The Bears have won four UAA titles since 1994, including last season, while the Tartans have recorded seven conference championships.
The two combatants have one common opponent: Case Western Reserve. The Tartans pummeled CWRU 45-14 in the second week of the season while the Bears squeaked by 24-14. It should be noted that Wash U had to travel by bus to Cleveland for the September 15 game, following changes in flight plans.
Wash U Zoo: Wash U has suffered two losses at the hands of the venerable Rhodes and Trinity University. The Lynx of Rhodes blocked three field goal attempts against third team All-American placekicker Jonathan Feig.
Last season, the Wash U Bears gave the playoff-bound Trinity 
Tigers, then ranked 3rd in the nation, a run for their money before bowing 18-17. This season Trinity rolled to a 28-3 win. The Tigers held the Bears to a meager 18 yards on the ground.
Watch for: Sophomore RB Bobby Collins had averaged over 100 yards a game before hitting a brick wall against the Tigers. Middle linebacker Brandon Roberts is the only starting linebacker returning from last years squad.
Sophomore Ricardo "The Spark Clarke has been named UAA player of the week twice this season (9 carries for 114 yards against Randolph-Macon and 182 yards versus Alfred). Clarke has served as the predominant tailback for CMU. Senior fullback Jeff Stolper has carried the ball most frequently for the Kilties.
Hidden stat: The Bears have allowed only one 100-yard rusher in their past 28 contests.
Result: The Skibos are about to exact some revenge on a youthful Bears squad. The Tartans offense scheme must incorporate passing to junior WR Sebastian Smelko and the tight end position. Otherwise, Wash U doesnt put eight men in the box on every down. CMU 17, Wash U 9.
Compiled by Brad Grantz
Tartan spirit thrives 
at football games
Men win 
pair of UAA j 
matches
UAA, from page A12
much of the first half, but were 
only able to capitalize once. With less than two minutes remaining in the half, Hibshman found his 
target again, powering a kick past the Rochester goalkeeper.Late in the second half, the Yellowjackets managed to tie the 
score at one apiece. As the sec
onds ticked away at the end of regulation, it was clear that the 
game was going into overtime.However, the Tartans were not 
about to walk away with a loss or a tie this time around. CMU controlled play in the extra period, 
and finally, Hibshman put the 
icing on the cake by tucking away the winning goal, his sec
ond of the game.
After this weekend, the men 
kick off a four game road trip on 
Wednesday afternoon against 
the Penn State-Behrend Lions. If 
they can manage to keep the 
pressure on opposing teams like 
they did this weekend, the next 
few games should be very 
promising for the Tartans.
Mariners 
no match 
for As
PLAYOFFS, from page A12 
three? This is the situation the 
Diamondbacks have, and the rea
son that they should never, and I mean never, lose a five-game 
series.In a short series, taking the early lead is basically the only 
way to win, so when Arizona 
throws Curt Schilling and Randy 
Johnson (in whichever order) in 
the first two games, its like hand
ing them two-thirds of the series right off the bat. To top things 
off, the scheduling of the playoffs 
would allow the game one starter 
to pitch again in game four on short rest with the game two 
starter going again in game five, 
or the game one starter waiting 
for game five (this is more likely since it would allow the game 
two starter to start game one of the next series).
Either way, there is no chance 
for any team to beat the two best j 
pitchers in the NL two out of j 
three. Im not too keen on the rest 
of! the team, but pitching wins games, and those two can do it 
better than most. Diamondbacks 
win in four, no matter who they 
play.Now that were up to the NLCS, 
things get a little dicey not know
ing which team from the Central 
is still around. Obviously, the two 
compare pretty closely or the 
pennant would have been decided before the last day of the season, but since pitching wins, the 
Cardinals have a better chance 
against Arizona should they 
make it. The redbirds boast a 22- 
game winner of their own in Matt 
Morris, and if he can steal a game 
or two from the big two, the 
series comes down to the number 
three and four starters, who are pretty average for both clubs.
I mentioned that Im not sold 
on the Diamondbacks roster out
side of Schilling and Johnson, 
well, that mostly goes for their lineup. They can produce runs, 
but not nearly as consistently as 
St. Louis does day in and day out.
In this match-up, I see the 
Cardinals going to the World 
Series in six games.
Houston, on the other hand, 
doesnt have anyone who can 
keep them in a game against one of the big two. Statistically, the 
Astros best starter is rookie Roy 
Oswalt, whos currently strug
gling to return from a groin injury. They might pull out one of j 
the games against the back end 
of the rotation, but it wont be 
enough. If they get Houston, the Diamondbacks romp to their first 
World Series in five.
Okay, just to make sure were 
on the same page: if the
Cardinals won yesterdays game, theyre the NL champions, but if 
the Astros won, then its the 
Diamondbacks in the Series.On to the AL, where the matchupjs have been set since the beginning of August. First up are
! See PLAYOFFS, page A10
HOMECOMING, from page A12 
the Kiltie Band will jaunt the campus in the hopes of gathering stu
dents to the game. The Kiltie ensemble should instead go inside 
buildings - dorms, academic halls, and blast out tunes that will blow out monitor screens. A rousing ver
sion of one of the greatest school fight songs, Fight for the Glory of Carnegie, should garner student 
support en masse.
While a large student section combined with the ever-jovial Kiltie 
Band at the Homecoming game 
would no doubt frazzle the Bears, 
the brouhaha would be lacking the brew. The most important compoA few quick words on Barry Bonds before anything else. An 
incredible season by an incredible 
player, capped off by his recordbreaking 72 home runs and 177 
walks, has just been completed. What he did was neither as difficult 
as Mariss accomplishment nor as 
captivating as McGwire and Sosas 
chase, and some people will there
fore minimize the home run 
accomplishment as merely a sign of 
the times. After all:
He did not have the entire nation rooting against him  he had 
merely half of it, mainly due to a 
public persona that was not universally beloved.
He did it in the era of free agency 
and expansion, against diluted pitching  which of course means 
diluted hitting as well, including 
Bondss teammates, meaning fewer 
set-up chances.He did it in smaller ballparks like 
Pac Bell and ballparks with thinner 
air like Coors Field  which does 
not explain why he topped the next closest competitor by a solid ten 
home runs.He did it in the era of bigger and 
stronger hitters, nearly 50 percent 
of whom reportedly could be using 
steroids  which is an indictment 
of that 50 percent of players, not 
Bonds.He did it during a time of 
unprecedented home run produc
tivity, due, according to some people, to a juiced ball  which likely 
does not account for a solid 18 per
cent of Bondss home runs, the 
amount by which he exceeded 
Maris.
He did it by improving his career 
best from 49 HR to 72 HR, obvious
ly pointing to something suspect  
until we realize that Maris did the 
same thing in 1961, improving from
39 HR to 61 HR, and even Babe 
Ruth did the same in 1920, improv
ing from 29 HR to 54 HR.
He did it by breaking a record 
that was only three years old, 
meaning it will be broken several 
times in the next ten years  just
Women split 
pair at home
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
soccer team faced some tough competition this weekend, as they 
faced off against a pair of 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) opponents at home.
On Friday night, the women 
took on the Judges from Brandeis
nent of a football game is an intoxicated fan. Who better to get drunked up on a Saturday afternoon than the fraternities?
Like a real football game, frats 
can bring their houses letters and 
pride, but more importantly, they 
can get tanked and taunt the oppo
nent. Im not suggesting that frat 
members douse the Bears in beer 
or beer bottles, but there are 
avenues of enthusiasm that would 
make Gesling look like a football
war zone.CMU doesnt need to aim for therowdiness of a Pitt game. I dont 
think crowd fights and war chants 
are the best route for a football
like many sportswriters predicted 
Ruths would have been broken 
several times immediately after his 
60 HR in 1927, since it had been broken several times before that, 
often by Ruth himself.I suppose that Bondss record is 
really just a product of todays 
watered-down game. Although his records for walks and slugging per
centage, added to the home runs, 
have made this one of the five greatest offensive seasons in major 
league history, hell never be as 
good as the heroes of the past. 
After all, it takes more than produc
tion to topple a legend; it takes a 
metamorphosis of public percep
tion, and that would take decades.The Indianapolis Colts were on a 
bye this past weekend, so they 
would be the best team to talk 
about since the deadline occurs just 
before this weekends games. The 
Colts host the Raiders this coming 
Sunday, and they head into that 
battle with a 2-1 record. 
Interestingly enough, all three of 
their games so far have been highscoring blowouts, with the Colts 
mauling the Jets and the Bills before getting thrashed in New 
England.
So what happened in New 
England? The obvious: turnovers, 
bad defense, and the well-publi
cized New England jinx that has 
afflicted the Colts for the past six 
seasons.
In other words, was a fluke loss, 
according to the mainstream 
media, just like the Bengals win 
over the Ravens in week 2 and the 
Panthers win over the Vikings in week 1.
The big question I have is: Why? Why minimize the accomplish
ments of these three teams? Why 
do we need to rationalize for the 
medias favorite teams after they 
get blown out at the hands of a team perceived to be worse? 
Because the mainstream colum
nists want to protect their reputa
tions and their preseason predic
tions.
Before the season started, the 
media pretty much predicted that 
the same twelve teams from last
University. The most impressive 
performance of the night was put 
in by junior Allison Styer, who 
scored two of the three Tartan goals that evening.
Yesterday afternoon, the 
women took the field against the 
Yellowjackets from Rochester, 
and this time were unable to convert on any of their scoring opportunities.
The lone goal of the match was 
scored by Rochester forward
game. School pride may have been 
lacking in years past. Why let that 
linger any longer? Just because the Hub charged you an extra $1,100 for services rendered doesnt 
mean you shouldnt have a good time at Carnegie Mellon with your classmates. Buy a kilt. Get drunk. 
Come watch football.
Brad Grantz, who still needs a kilt, 
is the co-host of Sportsline, heard 
Tuesday at 10 pm on your home for 
Tartan sports, WRCT. He would like 
to thank those persons that do make 
Tartan home games fun, like the 
Kiltie Band and Harry Tsangs Band 
of Shirtless Skibos.
year would be in the playoffs this 
year, with possibly only one change
- Green Bay in place of Minnesota. 
Other than that, most columnists 
said, this year would be among the 
most predictable in the history of the NFL.
Never mind the fact that no 
major media man has correctly pre
dicted both Super Bowl partici
pants in any year since 1997, when the Packers and Broncos pre
dictably met.
Since then, there have been three 
Super Bowls, and only one of those 
teams had even made the playoffs in the year prior  the 1998 
Broncos.
While commentators constantly 
claim that todays competitive bal
ance is a direct result of the salary 
caps effects being felt fully for the 
first time, their predictions simply 
do not reflect this nature of the 
game.
The most courageous pick the 
mainstream media made this past 
offseason? That the San Diego 
Chargers, 1-15 the year before, 
would be the leagues most improved team.
What a revelation! A team that 
won one game last year will 
improve! The medias research no doubt hinged on the fact that the 
Chargers lost several games last 
year by less than a touchdown 
while Doug Flutie thrived in clutch 
situations in Buffalo, making the 
match of the two a foregone con
clusion. Way to go out on a limb, 
guys!
What does this have to do with 
the Colts? Well, I predicted them to 
be one of the top two teams in the 
AFC, but that does not mean that 
this loss will be tossed aside on a day when everything went wrong 
for the Colts.
If they beat the Raiders at home 
on Sunday, you will hear how it 
was a statement game that reaf
firmed Indianapoliss place at the top.
I guess we all have short memo
ries....
RJ Sikdar must have something 
against the media. 
Kristin Kelly. Despite numerous 
chances, however, the team was forced to accept the 1-0 loss.
The split the team managed 
over the weekend still leaves 
them with a record of 7-2-1 
(1-2-1 UAA).
The squads next game is on 
Thursday afternoon at Gesling Stadium against Lake Erie 
College. Game time is 4 pm.
Compiled by 
Balaji Sarpeshkar
SPIRIT, from page A12 
that it could be the old cyclical 
effect, where people dont attend 
because they think that no one 
else attends.
Whatever it is, it is definitely not the lack of a legitimate Division III sports program. CMUs football 
history includes victories over Pitt 
and Notre Dame, and CMU also 
has several NFL alumni. The pro
grams recent history includes a 
string of 26 consecutive winning seasons. The team is currently 
tearing it up with a 4-0 record 
and rank among the leaders in 
their conference, so the perceived 
lack of spirit at games is not due to a poor quality team.
So what, you say? What is there 
at games that would prompt the 
average CMU student to check out 
the football team? The answer: The Manleaders.
Ma explains what takes place: 
First, we take off our shirts ... 
paint letters on our massive chests and well-defined backs ... then 
we line up and spell ridiculous 
things and antagonize the crowd. We also do push ups after every touchdown.
Tsang said, Primarily our goal 
is to get painted up and dance
around and be loud and have 
some fun and every so often we 
will do a cheer of our own. We 
always have a great time. This 
group of guys has performed their 
services at football games this year, and they are planning to 
expand into other sports such as 
volleyball, soccer, and basketball.
The ultimate goal for Tsang and 
the Manleaders is to instill into 
the collective campus conscience 
an idea of spirit and pride for our 
athletic teams. Students usually do not come to CMU for their ath
letics, but that does not mean that 
the program itself is flawed in any way. More likely, the notion that, 
no one goes to the games, so why 
should I? is the main culprit.
The Manleaders are hoping to 
increase school spirit as much as 
possible, but they need to be 
noticed. Students need to go to 
home games and support our teams, and hopefully word will 
ultimately get out about Carnegie Mellon athletics. Carnegie Mellon 
is a proud institution when it 
comes to academics, but everyone 
obviously knows that there is more to this school than meets the 
eye. We just need to know where 
to look.
classified
Opportunities
Student wanted to assist grandmoth
er in care of active toddler. Tuesday, 
Wednesday, Thursday, between 9am - 
1 pm or 1 pm -4 pm. Hours flexible. 
East End home on bus-line. $8 - 
$10/hour. E-mail schrerd@carngiemuseums.org or call 412-622-3395.
Fraternities! Sororities! Clubs! 
Student Groups! Earn $1,000-$2,000 
this semester with the easy 
Campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. Does not involve 
credit card applications. Fundraising 
dates are filling quickly, so call today! 
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888) 923-3238 or visit www.campusfundraiser.com.
SPRING BREAK PARTY! Indulge in 
FREE Travel, Drinks, Food, and Parties 
with the Best Dj's and celebrities in 
Cancn, jamaica, Mazatlan, and the 
Bahamas. Go to StudentCity.com, call 
1-800-293-1443 or e-mail sales@studentcity.com to find out more. 
Pittsburgh Deli Company, 728 
Copeland St. Shadyside. Hiring day
time positions. Apply in person. 412- 
682-3354
Wanted! Spring Breakers! Sun Coast 
vacations wants to send you on Spring
Break to Cancn, the Bahamas, 
jamaica, or Mazatlan. FOR FREE! To 
find out how, call 1-888-777-4642 or 
e-mail sales@suncoastvacations.com
Like older men? Older male grad stu
dent seeking younger female student 
who enjoys the special companionship 
of an older man, Seeking friendship, 
fun, and maybe more. Email me 
ttss8970@aol.com for information 
about me and a picture, hope to hear 
from you.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 1521 3-3890
 Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
 On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
 Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN
268-2111
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
The Judges couldnt stay on their feet long enough to pose a serious threat to the surging Tartans on Friday night.
NFL columnists never bold enough
120 Yards
by RJ Sikdar
Sports Briefs

---------------------------------------------------

Administration
Director of Intramurals: Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
President: Mike Edwards, X2-2993 
or medwards+
Womens President: Amy Tsao, x2- 
2938 or ast+
Vice President: Lou Ransom, x2- 
3933 or lransom +
Important Dates
Wednesday, October 10  IM 
Cross Country Meet at 4:30 pm on 
Flagstaff Hill
Thursday, October 11 
Mandatory Rules Meeting for 
Intramural Soccer at 4:30 pm in 
Small Gym at Skibo Gymnasium
Sunday, October 14  IM Golf 
Tourney at Schenley Golf Course
Tuesday, October 16 - IM Board 
Meeting 3 pm in Gym Conference 
Room
Thursday, October 18  3 Person 
Volleyball rosters due at 4:30 pm 
in the IM Office
Sports in Season
Flag Football  Playoffs began last 
Wednesday. The finals will be held 
at Gesling Stadium Wednesday at
8:30 and 9:30 pm.
Tennis  The season has begun at 
the university courts. Matches are 
played Monday through Thursday 
nights. Please check the IM Office 
for make up times. Please stay off 
the tennis courts during varsity 
practice. Only athletic shoes per
mitted on the courts at all times. 
No boots, sandals, or dress shoes.
Co-Rec Volleyball  The finals 
were held Thursday. Huahh won 
majors and Hoopers/Beta A won 
the minors.
Water Polo  The season is under
way at the UC Pool. Schedules are 
available.
Bowling  Matches are played at 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
Lanes on Fifth Avenue in Oakland. 
Matches began in September. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office. Report scores to the IM 
Office.
Foosball  Schedules are avail
able at the IM Office. Report scores 
to the IM Office.
Racquetball  Schedules are 
available at the IM Office. Matches 
begin tonight at the UC Courts. 
Please report scores to the IM 
Office.
Volleyball  6 Person volleyball 
begins tonight at the UC Gym. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office.
Sports Upcoming
Soccer  There will be a mandato
ry soccer rules meeting on
Thursday, October 11 in the Small 
Gym at Skibo Gymnasium. All 
teams must have a representative.
IM Golf Tournament
The 2001 IM Golf Tournament will 
be Sunday, October 14 at the 
Schenley Park Golf Course. Green 
fees are reduced to $13 with a 
CMU ID and club rental is $6. Tee 
off anytime and bring score cards 
to the IM Office in Skibo Gym.
IM Cross Country Meet
The 2001 Cross Country Meet will 
be held Wednesday, October 10. 
The meet will start at 4:30 pm on 
the bottom of Flagstaff Hill across 
from the Porter Hall entrance.
Football Rankings 
Majors:
1. Spirit End Zone Dancers
2. PiKAA
3. Pittsburghs Finest
Intermediate:
1. PiKA 32
2. Beta Black and Blue
3. PKT Priceless
Minors:
1. TSA Predators2.DUI
3. MBA 03
4. Bris Hungarian Army
Women:
1. FTH
2. Hoopers
3. SPIRIT A
If you have any questions, call the 
IM Office atx8-2214. Remember, all 
email rosters must be received 24 
hours prior to the due date.
This Week in UAA Football
Case Western 38, Kenyon 10
Soph. RB Brandon McDowell 
rushed for 233 yards on 34 carries 
as the Spartans improved to 2-4.
Hobart 38, Rochester 12WR Anthony Yandek caught 
four balls for 37 yards to tie for 
the all-time receptions leader at 
Rochester. Victory hopes were 
dashed when Hobart scored 10 points off two 3rd quarter 
turnovers. The Yellowjackets fell 
to 2-3. Rochester hosts 4-0 Chicago next week during 
Homecoming.
Trinity (TX) 28, 
Washington 3
The Bears (4-2) suffered their 
second straight defeat as the 27th 
ranked Trinity Tigers rushed for 170 yards en route to their fifth 
victory (versus one loss).
Sports
8 October 2001 THE TARTAN Page Ai2
Baseball 
playoffs set 
to begin
A View from the Bleachers
by Matt Brun
Its finally time once again. After a season that seemed to drag on 
longer than most (of course, it was 
actually a week longer than normal), the playoffs are here once 
again. Naturally, that means Im here to give you yet another wildly 
inaccurate preview column. All of those wonderful playoff races in 
the NL worked themselves out 
beautifully over the last week of the season. At least, most of them did. 
At the time I wrote this late Saturday night, the CardinalsAstros battle in the Central Division 
was still undecided. And while Im a huge fan of champions being 
decided on the last day of the regular season, its rather difficult to 
predict whos going to win the firstround playoff match-ups when I 
dont know what those match-ups 
are going to be.This particular situation is a little 
simpler since both teams have at 
least clinched playoff spots, and the 
first-round series are actually pretty easy to call either way. For the 
winner of the division, the prize is a first-round match-up against the 
Braves (read: an automatic trip to 
the NL Championship Series). The 
loser is not so fortunate, however, since they will almost surely lose to 
the Diamondbacks.
Of these two extravagant claims, 
the Braves loss is by far the more 
certain since, frankly, they stink. 
Bobby Cox should be thanking the fates that the Braves have the Mets 
collective spines in a jar, because a team that cant play higher than 
.500 at home does not deserve to 
make the playoffs. The Braves once 
vaunted pitching staff is aging, and 
while John Smoltz does look like a 
legitimate closer, they still have to get him a lead for him to be effec
tive. Both St. Louis and Houston 
have more than enough pitching to 
shut down a lineup that struggled all year when healthy and now will 
be without catcher Javy Lopez. Call 
it Cardinals in three or Houston in four (the Astros rotation isnt quite 
as deep).
As for the Diamondbacks, how 
would you like to have this problem 
as a general manager: Who do you 
start in game one, the 22-game winner or the 21-game winner who 
almost set a new single season 
record for strikeouts? Did I mention 
that they both have an ERA under
See PLAYOFFS, page All
Homecoming football matchup 
warrants attention from student body
Yinzer Yak
by Brad Grantz
The first four opponents of the 
Carnegie Mellon Tartans have 
stood as mighty as a stack of leaves, 
but have been a less effective fertil
izer for the untested Kilties. Now, 
this Saturday at 2 pm, CMU will 
host the menaces of the Midwest, 
the Washington University Bears. 
Wash U will serve as an inauspi
cious Homecoming opponent, as 
they are ranked 24th in the Seattle 
Times poll right behind Tacoma 
Junior College. My two cents says 
Temple scheduled its own 
Homecoming this week. However, 
what patsy, er, adversary is avail
able for a Temple Homecoming 
affair is beyond my purview. Im 
merely a cynic. I dont give 
answers.
However, the remainder of my 
space allotment in The Tartan, 
Carnegie Mellons student newspa
per since 1906, will not be spent 
criticizing and whining. Skepticism 
begone because I have turned over 
a new leaf, since there are plenty 
around (trade sarcasm for simpletonesque jokes and thats what you 
get  sorry).75 years ago, the Skibos dis
played football marksmanship that 
few teams emulate. The Tartans 
defeated powerhouses Notre Dame 
and the Pitt Panthers, 27-0 and 
14-0 respectively. As the story has been retold, Tech fans romped 
through Oakland, burning and pillaging the town. Their tradition of
destruction was quickly adopted by 
Pitt, who has continued to disman
tle the Oakland neighborhood for parking lots and military intelli
gence bases. CMUs applied research has come a long way from 
urban redevelopment through 
mass destruction by students to 
mass destruction by the Software 
Engineering Institute.
Imagine that in 1926 Carnegie 
Tech was a commuter school. 
Despite the apparent obstacle of 
riding a trolley car from their 
hometown, possibly miles away, to 
Pitt Stadium, students and alumni 
came in droves for the Tartan romp.
Its unfortunate that applied 
research was the only lesson taken 
away from that season. Football at 
Tech petered out before World War
II. Today, CMU is mistakenly 
believed to be left with a shell of its 
former glory. However, the Tartans 
will vie for their 26th consecutive 
winning season in a challenging 
conference. Truth be told, Tartan
football isnt all that bad.While the dynamics of the University and student body have 
changed, we as a student body 
need to be inspired. Enthusiasm 
can ring proud in the heart of every 
Techster, especially during this 
semester when I havent heard the 
a-bomb (apathy) dropped once. 
The irony is today we still have 
rowdy and creative individuals 
(witness Crime and Incident 
Reports, the Quad, and the heck
lers during McConomy movies), 
but few celebrate the team. I
choose not to enumerate the excus
es that the student body stumbles 
across when trying to avoid such 
athletic competitions as Saturday 
afternoon football. I instead will 
spout optimism with the intensity 
of the grease pit at the O in the 
hopes that CMU can recreate the joy of 1926.
Consider that the autumnal 
equinox has a smell of woebegone 
trees sans leaves that would nor
mally be thought of as decay, but 
instead is an aroma with a tinge of 
sweetness. Springs odors can be 
overbearing, and add to it all this 
vivacity of new life and it becomes 
not exhilaration, but mere agita
tion  especially for the sinuses. 
We are afforded an opportunity to 
escape the confines of the cluster, 
the stage, the office, or whatever 
lair we fester in for unfathomable 
periods of time. We can cavort on 
the Cut and the Mall more peace
fully than todays collegiate beat
niks. Together, we can celebrate 
that we attend Carnegie Mellon 
and in unison, we can fight for the
glory of Carnegie.Students ana faculty, it is time 
we rally the meek and belligerent through whatever violent means 
necessary and parade to Gesling 
Stadium for this weekends 
Homecoming contest. The follow
ing suggestions should be taken 
with a grain of salt and two aspirin, 
but nonetheless considered for this weekends contest against Wash U.
On some Saturday afternoons, 
See HOMECOMING, page All
GETTING ONROLL
Adam Hibshmans four goals seal pair of UAA victories
with the Tartans for most of the first half. It was a back and forth battle, with both teams alternat
ing possessions and not allowing the other team to hold control for any long period of time.
Toward the end of the first half, CMU started to get their chances, 
but unfortunately they were not able to connect. Good defensive 
play led by sophomore Mark Painter helped CMU hold the Judges to minimal opportunities.As the half wore on, it was 
apparent that CMU was beginning to control the tempo of the game. The halftime statistics would show that CMU had a large advantage in shots on goal.
The second half proved different for the Tartans. They came out 
with more spark, and a determination to break the tie.
We were just playing hard, said head coach Nick Gaudioso. I dont know where the other teams 
heads went, but we sure increased the intensity.
The first goal came with 27:00 remaining in the second half and it was by junior Adam Hibshman. After a breakdown by the Brandeis defense, Hibshman was able to set 
up in their zone, and get off his shot with plenty of time to spare. 
The Tartans took the lead 1-0.Not long after that, Hibshman struck again.
After two goals, I think that
Brandeis broke down and we started to wear them out, said Gaudioso.As a matter of fact, Brandeis was a wreck thereafter. The next scorer from CMU was first-year James Steidel, who put on an impressive 
in-and-out weave to ring up the number three goal.Things continued to head in 
CMUs favor for the rest of the half, as they would go on to score two more times. The fourth goal was a wild header-to-header, finally poked into the net by junior 
James Chung.After the Judges committed an infraction inside their own penalty 
box, CMU was able to capitalize with the final goal of the game. Brian Morgan topped things off 
with a line drive penalty kick to bring the Tartan goal total to five for the day.
After a mediocre first half, CMU was able to pull out the easy win 
against Brandeis, but in Sunday afternoons game it wasnt that easy.
The Tartans faced the Yellowjackets of Rochester 
University yesterday, and came out determined to take their second straight UAA match. As a large crowd gathered in the cold morning air, the Tartans set out to 
accomplish just that.CMU controlled the play for See UAA, page All
School spirit still 
strong at home games
by RJ Sikdar
Staff writer
Across the nation, varsity 
sports, especially football, have 
been part of the social fabric of 
our university students. From 
Florida State to Washington State, 
college football has captivated stu
dents on Saturdays and brought 
an exciting diversion from the 
mundane grind of the work 
week.
So whats up with CMU? Why
are we so apathetic about our
team sports?For answers, we turned to the
Manleaders, a group of men who,
like cheerleaders, think spirit canbe rejuvenated at Carnegie
Mellon. Their leader, Harry Tsang, 
is a senior masters student in 
Public Policy and Management, and his group have been invigo
rating the crowds at home football games, hoping to get some fight 
back into the fans.
Sophomore business student 
Roger Ma, also a Manleader, 
thinks that students simply do not 
have that much time to go to 
games, since between classes, 
sleeping, and eating, there isnt 
much time after that to do any
thing.Tsang is not so convinced, 
emphasizing that many students 
play and attend IM sports and some even played varsity high 
school athletics as well. He thinks
See SPIRIT, page A11
Jen Airone/Photo Staff
The CMU crew team took part in the Head of the Ohio race last Saturday, 
their first race of the season. The mens masters boat finished in first place.
The Brandeis Judges didnt have a chance to keep with the Tartan forwards on Friday night, as they were defeated 5-0.
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
This past weekend, in front of a 
large crowd of parents from parents weekend, the Tartans mens
soccer team played two contests at Gesling Stadium. They were suc
cessful in both of the games, bringing their record to an impres
sive 7-1-1 (2-1-1 UAA) for the year.Friday night the Tartans hosted
conference opponent Brandeis. After a slow first half, CMU was 
able to bust out in the second part of the second half to chalk up a score of 5-0.
Brandeis came out strong in the beginning, and was able to stay

---------------------------------------------------

Erica DiBenedetto/Art Editor
African culture, the focus of this years International Festival which took place ths past 
weekend, introduced dance, food, music, and plenty more to a variety of age groups.
by Arthur Goh
Junior Staffwriter
Milk coke? Fried bananas? Pulled tea? What a list of 
outrageous culinary blasphemy! But one may think 
again after dinner last Friday; these fares were among 
the eye-opening highlight offerings during the 
Malaysian Food Festival this fall.As members of a university with a community of 
vast diversity, it is only proper that one should 
seek to share and savor each others culture, for 
the better of course. And this time, Budaya  the 
Malaysian Student Association of CMU  took it 
upon itself to share Malaysias unique culture to 
campus with a sense of purpose to inform, and 
above all, to feed. What better way to commune 
Malaysias equally rich and diversified culture to the students, family, staff, and faculty alike than 
to present it in its most famous form  fun, fan
tastic food!
The Operasi Sedap Gila (Wildly Delicious
Operation), was conceived earlier this semester, 
budded as a small what if? that bloomed into a 
runaway success. Scheduled from 5 to 9 pm, the initial set-up, with ABTech installing the light and 
audio equipments and stalls heating up woks, was 
impeded somewhat by a sudden change in weather. 
The sun retired as clouds rolled in, fueled by frus
trating gusts of wind. Anxious eyes gazed heaven
ward every five minutes; the idea of a rain venue 
was murder.
The volume of customers flooding the Merson 
Courtyard was nothing less than exponential to 
time. Malaysian classics blared out of the speakers 
while robust cooks labored to the sounds of impa
tient coupon booklets waiting to be traded. The 
heaven held its own, leaving nothing in the way of the festival to proceed.
A visible trademark of Malaysian food, other 
than seemingly strange concoctions, is the concept 
of open cooking. This simply means that youll see 
that weak skewered blob of red meat roast into a
See FOOD, page B3CMU sophomore, Magic Michael, strives to bring out smiles as he mystifies and entertains audiences with effects and comedy
Budaya offers Malaysian food 
that stimulated many senses
by Beth Powell
Arts & Living Editor
Seeing and making people smile 
is Michael Gutenplans favorite 
thing. This CMU sophomore double majoring in art and directing is also 
a magician and maybe more impor
tantly, an entertainer.
Take for example, the weekend 
after the tragic events of September 
11. Magic Michael was working at 
Dave and Busters, where, as of this past February he can be found 
every Friday and Saturday night, 
when he approached a table of 
somber-looking businessmen. He said hello and asked if they wanted 
to see some magic. They asked if he 
was going to make them laugh and 
he told them that he guaranteed 
they would laugh. They agreed to 
give him a chance and he delivered 
as promised. They laughed and were so grateful for the release of 
all the tension from the week that they didnt know how to thank him. 
And that is why Gutenplan is in the business.
He tours the restaurant area of 
Dave and Busters, located in 
Homestead, every Friday and 
Saturday night, entertaining the 
various tables of customers. His 
philosophy is simple: Give the people a show and treat them as edu
cated people who are out to be 
entertained. Im not out to trick, 
Im out to entertain, he said.
Gutenplan started experiment
ing with magic as a kid and began 
working with the art form profes
sionally two years ago when he saw 
the potential of social and mone
tary benefits. Since then he has per
formed at numerous events including weddings, anniversary and 
birthday parties, Bar Mitzvahs, 
benefits, and fundraisers. His 
favorit trick, or effect as he puts it, is one he usually does at wed
dings. The new husband and wife 
sign there names to different cards 
and with Gutenplans help, the 
cards end up next to each other, 
even facing each other, in the deck 
and at the end of the effect, the 
cards have been fused together, a symbol of the union that has taken 
place and will last forever.
Gutenplan claims that he is the 
biggest fan of magic and loves watching tricks being performed. 
He refuses to perform tricks that he 
doesnt enjoy because he feels that 
if he doesnt like them, others wont 
either. When he approaches your 
table to perform what is referred to 
as Close-Up Magic, Gutenplan 
becomes your best friend. It is 
important to make sure that the 
potential audeince wants to see 
See MAGIC, page B3Magic Michael performed a diverse collection of tricks this past Friday and Saturday to an astonished crowd, as he does every weekend at Dave and Busters.

---------------------------------------------------

Courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra Courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Christiane Noll (top), Doug LaBrecque (bottom left), and J. Mark McVey (bottom right) performed with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony, conducted by Marvin Hamlisch last weekend at Heinz Hall.
Courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
The Silver Clouds Installation by Andy Warhol is part of the permanent collection at The Andy Warhol Museum.
by Colin Hinde
Staffwriter
Do you know you can go to the 
Andy Warhol museum for free, 
just for being a CMU student? 
Although inconveniently located 
on the North Shore, it is worth 
the trip to come out to the gallery. With poured concrete floors,and more silk screenings 
than a Hong Kong sweatshop, the 
Warhol is like no other museum, 
but then again, Andy was like no 
other artist. Because of the size 
of his canvases, I find it a pleas
ing effect to view a painting with 
my glasses off after I have 
become familiar with it. Perhaps 
if you are blessed with perfect 
vision, you can get the same 
effect by wearing powerful read
ing glasses. You may be able to 
foresee that a trip to the Warhol 
could result in the viewing of a 
mosaic of almost identical images, be it Campbells soup 
cans or Mao Zedong faces, but in
a special exhibit running from 
now to the end of the year, you 
can see dozens of gruesome pho
tographs of lynchings.
The current project entitled 
Without Sanctuary, documents 
lynching in America from the 1870s 
through the 1950s. The focus of the 
collection is violent public lynching 
in the American South between 1890 and 1930. Such shocking public celebration of genocidal slaugh
ter was something that my school 
system certainly glossed over when 
I was growing up.
The emotions of visitors varied 
from disgust to sadness to mere 
incomprehension, but were all 
alike in their high intensity. One 
woman said she felt the same way 
as she did when she visited the 
Holocaust Museum, only worse 
because what she saw here was 
done in America. Another won
dered whether the collection 
should be considered history or art. If it simply educates, it is his
tory, he said, but if it alters 
someones way of thinking, it
meets the ideal goal of art. 
Cogent thoughts; it seems then 
that this exhibit can be both.
In addition to the shocking 
photographs, the exhibit features 
the struggles to end lynching in 
the media. The best part of this . 
section is the tribute to Billy Holiday and her emotional antii 
lynching jazz piece Strange Fruit. It begins:Southern trees bear a strange 
fruit/Blood on the leaves and blood 
on the root
Even now it is moving to listen to. Even without considering any 
special exhibitions, it is a good 
idea to visit the museum at least 
one time. Warhol captured and 
shaped his era in his art as well as 
any of his contemporaries. 
Surely, if his work is the last relic 
of our time unearthed by alien 
archeologists a million years 
from now, their bafflement will 
quickly turn to comprehension.
For more information visit the 
Warhol musuem Web site at 
http://www. warhol.org.Study abroad exposes students to new culture and language
by Tiffany Lee
Staffwriter
The non-traditional opportunities avail
able to you while attending CMU are an 
important part of the college experience. 
One such opportunity is the option to study 
abroad for a semester, or even two, if you 
want. If youve ever wanted to live in a for
eign country, learn a new language, or learn 
more about another culture, then studying 
abroad might be the right choice for you.
On Saturday, October 6, Carnegie Mellon hosted a Study Abroad Fair in 
Rangos Hal, from 11:30-2:30. Students 
had the chance to learn about the different study abroad programs available, 
and to ask any questions that they might 
have had. There were representatives 
from different University study abroad 
programs including University of 
Pittsburgh, Boston University, Syracuse 
University, the Carnegie Mellon Modern 
Language Department, and companies 
devoted to international study, such as
Cultural Experiences Abroad, Council 
Travel, and the Institute for Study 
Abroad. These various representatives 
provided a look into the study abroad 
experience, and offered literature on the 
many different places that a student 
could live and learn.
Study abroad is a unique adventure because you are given the opportunity to 
experience life outside of the United 
States (or within the continent if you 
choose), and become exposed to differ
ent cultures. While you become accus
tomed to a different way of living, and 
possibly an unfamiliar language, you will 
also be continuing your academic stud
ies. If the country that you visit speaks a 
language other than English, instruction might be in that language, especially if 
you are taking classes at one of their 
home universities. Even if instruction is 
available in English, your constant expo
sure to people speaking something other 
than English will heighten your aware
ness of the new language. This is ideal for people who have been studying a for
eign language extensively and would like 
to take steps towards fluency, or for 
someone who would like to begin to 
learn a new language.
Students interested in studying abroad, or finding out more about the I 
programs available to them, should  
visit Carnegie Mellons study abroad 
Web site at http://www-oie.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/OIEold/studyabro 
ad/index.shtml. A meeting with your 
academic advisor regarding study abroad 
is a good idea.
Carnegie Almanac
75 years ago, October 12,1926  Tartans defeated Adrian College of 
Michigan in the first visiting game of the season with a score of 47 - 0.The Student Council created a new standard for managing student 
organization budgets. With this new standard, the finances then fell 
under the jurisdiction of the Student Council, which helped to centralize 
ali of the accounting for the student organizations and ensure that they 
wouldnt go into debt.Students swamped the ticket offices for an upcoming game against 
Washington and Jefferson. There were 21 graduate students studying at 
Carnegie Tech this year.
50 years ago, October 9, 1951  The A.W. Mellon Educational and 
Charitable Trust created a permanent $300,000 endowment fund. Income from this grant helps approximately 35 qualified students every 
year. The scholarships will be administered by Carnegies committee on 
financial aid for students. The original Mellon scholarship was created in 
1938. About 450 Carnegie students have received tuition help since then.
Elliot Lawrence, named as one of the ten best dance bands in 1950, was 
the highlight of the homecoming weekend. He has been to over 300 col
leges in his career, and broken records for college dances.
25 years ago, October 5,1976  The Music Department saw a number of changes this year, and created a BFA in Performance, BFA in Music, 
and a BFA in Music Education. New this year was the Musical Theatre 
program, which was supported by the Drama and Music departments.
The curriculum, a combination of drama, music, and dance, was to be 
tried for a two-year trial run.
The Computation Center installed a new DECsystem 20 computer to 
upgrade the current system in place. This system added capabilities to the 
Univac 1108 and IBM 360. Its use was restricted for the first semester 
since it is a new system.
CMU and Pitt were also considering creating a program that would 
allow the sharing of computing resources. This would involve creat
ing a new computing center that would take care of the needs of both 
universities.
10 years ago, October 7, 1991  Student Senate modified the 
fiscal policy so that more power was given to the Senate Funding and Recognition (F&R) committee. Organizations not recognized or 
funded by the F&R committee could still appeal at a general meeting 
if another senator wished to bring the issue up for discussion, and 
required two-thirds of the vote of Senate, not just F&R, to override 
fiscal policy.
A new commission was formed to help enrich the academic lives of 
undergraduates on campus. The Commission for Undergraduate 
Education has been charged to recommend ways to improve student learning and faculty teaching. President Mehrabian asked the commis
sion to increase students skills in problem solving, written and oral com
munication, political and ethical issues, and to create an atmosphere of 
scholarship and excitement of learning on campus.
5 years ago, October 7, 1996  Carnegie Mellon officially started the 
search for a new president after former President Mehrabian retired in 
March. The committee searched through a list of approximate 530 people 
from all over, including academic areas, the government, and foundations.
They expected to narrow the list down and have about three dozen can
didates visit in early November and December and go through more for
mal interviews then.
The committee expected to make a decision by commencement; how
ever, Mehrabian was extremely cooperative and was willing to stay longer so that a good decision could be made.
1 year ago, October 9, 2000  The University came closer to a deci
sion regarding temporarily housing the Intel Solutions Center in the 
University Center basement. There would be eight new full time employ
ees working there. Other concerns included taking up student organization space and valuable parking spaces.
There had not been enough money to renovate the basement before, 
according to Michael Murphy, dean of Student Affairs. Intel would have 
been a temporary solution and the space wouldbe transferred back to students after a few years.
The University bookstore moved to an Online system with increased 
usage statistics and ease of use for students and staff. Eventual plans include Online textbook ordering for students and their courses.
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollapalli
Hamlisch, Broadway stars, 
and PSO magnificent combo
by Nina Durai
Staffwriter
Three Broadway veterans with the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops and Marvin Hamlisch combined 
into a show called Broadway 
Bound with Marvin Hamlisch to perform a collection of Hamlischs 
favorite Broadway numbers. The 
program ran from October 4 through October 7 in Heinz Hall. 
The orchestra and vocalists per
formed songs from several eras and composers, which endowed the show with both quality and 
variety. Hearing familiar songs from musicals such as My Fair 
Lady and the King and I played by an orchestra provided a unique 
opportunity to develop a greater 
appreciation for the melodies that 
Broadway lovers already hold near and dear to their hearts.
In the beginning of the pro
gram, Hamlisch commented that any complaints about the shows 
selections should be directed to 
him, because he chose all the 
songs. Considering that Marvin Hamlisch ranks amongst the 
greatest musical geniuses of our 
times, there werent too many complaints. After being one of the 
youngest students ever admitted to Julliard, Hamlisch went on to 
win three Oscars, four Grammys, 
three Emmys, a Tony, three Golden Globe awards, and a 
Pulitzer Prize. Also, there certain
ly could be no complaints about 
his work as the programs pianist and conductor. In addition to the
music itself, the force of 
Hamlischs personality and sense of humor took the show to a more personal and memorable level. He made each member of the audi
ence feel as though they were 
being spoken to personally, even though Hamlisch addressed an 
audience of thousands. Hamlisch framed the entire show as a form 
of therapeutic relief for CNN addiction and cut Bernsteins 
Candide from the program to make room for a selection of patri
otic melodies that Hamlisch invit
ed the audience to sing along to.The programs vocalists were all 
among the most renowned Broadway performers. Christiane 
Noll, a graduate of Carnegie Mellon, gave stellar performances 
as the shows only female vocalist. 
She effortlessly transformed from 
an alto Eva Peron in one scene to a soprano Christine from Phantom of 
the Opera in the next. Noll is a sea
soned Broadway headliner, and has 
performed in Miss Saigon, Grease, 
and the King and I just to name a 
few of her roles. She also has pro
duced several of her own CDs and provided the voice of Anna for the 
animated film, The King and I. 
Broadway Bound provided a perfect 
opportunity for Noll to justify her 
reputation as one of the most ver
satile actresses in the American 
musical theatre as she switched 
into so many different types of roles 
during the night. Hamlisch claimed that J. Mark McVey, the programs 
baritone, would deliver the best 
rendition that one would ever hear 
of Bring Him Home from Les
Miserables. Naturally, Hamlisch 
knows what hes talking about.McVey has an ability to use his 
voice to express emotions so poignantly that the audience can feel the experiences of the charac
ter that he enacts.The third vocal
ist, Doug LaBrecque, has been best known for his performances of both 
the Phantom and Raoul in the 
Harold Prince Production of 
Phantom of the Opera. Although truly gifted with a strong voice, his 
performances were less striking 
than McVe/s and Nolls. It seemed that his pieces did not give him the opportunity to show the full range 
of his talent.Overall, Broadway Bound with 
Marvin Hamlisch succeeded in 
bringing out not only the entertainment value of popular Broadway 
numbers, but also their melodic 
splendor as musical classics. The 
combined efforts of the orchestra, 
the singers, and Hamlisch made 
Broadway Bound into a remarkably 
well-received show. Thanks, Hamlisch, for a night of much 
needed therapy for all of us.This weekend the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra will be per
forming Jean Sibelius Symphony 
No. 5 in E-flat Major, Opus 82, 
Concerto for Timpani and 
Percussion by James Oliverio, and Edvard Griegs Suite from Peer 
Gynt. The performance will be 
conducted by Osmo Vanska and will feature Timothy Adams on 
the timpani and percussion. For 
more information call 412-392- 
4900 or visit http://www.pittsburghsymphony.org.
Warhol offers variety of silkscreens and disturbing images

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Magic Michael, known to the CMU community as Michael Gutenplan, performs for fellow CMU student, 
Linnea Holmlund, at Dave and Busters with his wallet of fire.Close-Up magic invades space
MAGIC, from page B1 magic as they are really there to 
eat, not to be entertained. So, he 
asks before he starts his show. A lot of his show depends on invading 
peoples personal space, so he has 
to be sure theyre ready for it and are going to enjoy it.
Various age groups respond differently to the magic show and
many of them try to get smart with 
them and he dishes it right back. 
For example, when asked, Hows it 
done? Gutenplan responds with, very well. He strives to not 
embarrass anyone because that will 
turn them off to the experience, but he likes to have fun with people. He 
points out that professionals are 
those who have taken the time to
study the psychology behind the 
magic show and understand effect it can have on people.
This multi-talented student also 
enjoys mountainclimbing and 
directed the upcoming Scotch n 
Soda production of Blood Brothers. His immediate future plans include 
developing an illusion show by the 
end of the year.
Theres a place for you at Apple.
October 16-18,2001
www.apple.com/jobs/cmu

Think different.
2001 Apple Computar, he. AS tights reserved. The Appi lege and TNnk different as admate of Apple Apple is committed to diversity. We welcome appScatais (rom al individuas.
Greek Week was in full swing this past week including a display of each organizations banner.
Malaysian food was cooked and served to the campus community this past Friday outside of the University Center.
Open cooking by Malaysians 
delights, spoils various senses
FOOD, from page B1 tough, tasty satay, and that piece of 
banana coated in peculiar yellow dip fry into a golden fritter, all before your very eyes. This might explain for the long queues that 
snaked across the courtyard; peo
ple were absorbed in the actual process of cooking; what choice did 
they have? And all this culminated 
in joy when the goreng pisang (fried banana) was plonked onto 
their respective plates.Budaya is to be commended for 
sustaining a food marathon for four hours. It is also interesting to note that the bulk of food downed by 
many on Friday was prepared 
entirely by students, many among 
whom are first-years here at CMU. Led by Tan Yuen Lin, president of 
Budaya, and Ong Jiin Joo, conductor ;of this culinary orchestra, the team managed to stretch their 
resources until the very end of the 
slated time. An envoy was even dis
patched to the nearest Giant Eagle to cater for the dry counter that
was teh tarik (pulled tea  basically tea cascaded between two big mugs till it froths).
Others like the Asam Laksa (Tangy Noodle Soup) ran out early 
due to influx of shrewd connoisseurs, and the much loved roti canai 
stall (Muslim Indian stretched bread) ran out later in the night 
after delighting many with the open 
kneading, slapping, twirling, and flipping of dough. Another stall that 
was a massive hit with the crowd 
was the char kuay teow stall (Fried Flat Noodles), which catered for 
approximately 150 customers, fried late into the night and never did run 
out of ingredients! Maybe Budaya should try to extend this longevity 
by holding a daylong food 
marathon in the future.And as if the crowd did not 
already have enough at hand to 
spoil their sense of smell, vision, 
and taste, Budaya exploited the full potential of several cooks who 
came out in the middle to perform 
a traditional Malay martial arts
demonstration called the pencak 
silat. It may not have the vitality of the African dancers in UC earlier in 
the day, but the silent strength and 
graceful coordination elicited applause from people who were 
balancing piles of food, or those in line who could not see the live food 
preparation. With the women 
dressed in their kebaya and men in their baju Melayu, Budaya came 
out to make their presence felt on 
campus. Standing on its own two feet as an association coming out of general obscurity, Budaya to con
tributed constructively to the 
vibrancy of the CMU community. I reckon that, after being inspired by 
this well-received project, we 
havent seen the last of them.
Friday was a classic example of 
a' food festival, charged with vivid atmosphere and aroma. 
Milk coke? Well, at least it wasnt 
stuffed toads.
For more information about 
Budaya, send email to 
budaya@andrew.cmu.edu.Uncle Vayna exceeds expectations
by Lee Ann Dickinson
Junior Staffwriter
Anton Chekovs work has often been described as dry, boring, long, 
and tedious. Stella Adler once said 
that Checkov did not have a point  
he wrote to portray a mood and an 
atmosphere. However its been said 
before, Uncle Vanya, performed by the 
CMU School of Drama and directed by Tommy Conroy, was anything but 
dry and boring. In fact, this new 
interpretation of an old play was highly comical, entertaining and it did 
have a point. In the opening scene, 
the doctor, played by Demond 
Robertson, poses the question, In a 
hundred years, what will people look 
back at us and see?
As the audience filed into the Rauh 
Studio Theatre and found seats, the 
actors were already on the set, in character, setting a mood. Yelena, 
played by Jaclyn Fiestad, sat on a 
swing and made eyes at Vanya, 
played by Rory OMalley. The maids walked around, set things in place, 
other characters talked in low tones
and silently laughed with each other. 
The old woman, Brennan Gay Hesser, 
shuffled around the stage, speaking 
to the professor, Jonathan Putterman, 
and resting at intervals. All in all, 
before a single word was spoken, each 
character had introduced him or her
self to the audience.
The design was interesting, but it 
also did not seem to be altogether 
cohesive. The stage had furniture and 
props as needed, and they obviously conveyed an impression of elegance. 
In contrast, there were strips of cotton hanging from the grid that did not 
seem to fit with anything. It was as if 
it was a conceptual forest hanging from the sky, yet the effect wasnt 
quite complete. The costuming was 
rich and full of flair. Even the plainest 
of the characters had a wardrobe, 
designed by Jessica Noble, that was 
stunning. The lighting, designed by 
Camille Conolly, was brilliant in its 
simplicity. Particularly effective was 
the lighting during the scene changes.
Usually, scene changes are not 
highlights in a production, but these were. In each of the three scene
acter that was left onstage and was 
part of the scene change. The first 
one. incorporated the grandmother 
and it showed her confusion. The sec
ond scene change incorporated a full 
costume change of Yelana on stage, lit 
in direct down light, eliciting an eerie 
feeling that she was a ghost. In the 
third scene change, there was literal 
fighting going on between the stage 
run crew removing furniture, and the 
characters who would not let it go. In 
defiance of the circumstances they were being faced with, they refused to 
allow their life to be taken from 
them.
Throughout the play, as the story is 
told of a family whose members are in 
love and out of love, discontent and 
poor, lacking money or a proper name 
or a proper station, and yet still hope
ful of better times to come or of love 
and acceptance, there is a sense that the reality they lived in, is the same 
reality we live in today. In a hundred 
years, when people lookback at us, let 
us hope that they see humour and 
love and hope in life, and that we chose to live in reality as we went
Anthony DAuria/Photo StaffRory OMalley, Uncle Vayna, and Jaclyn Fiestad, Yelena, performed this past week in the School of Dramas
production of Uncle Vayna, directed by Thommy Conroy.\  k
I

---------------------------------------------------

Business
,8 October 2001THE TARTANPage B4
John Robertson joins GSIAs faculty as director and 
departmental advisor for undergraduate program
by Gautam Jain
Junior Staffwriter
The Graduate School of Industrial Administration has added a new member to its 
-  already renowned community. This time its 
 John Robertson, who recently became the director and departmental advisor for GSIAs undergraduate business administration program.Robertson succeeds Claudia Kirkpatrick, who 
had been the director and department advisor 
of the BA program since 1987. She stepped down last semester to become a full-time pro
fessor. She now teaches the written communica-.tions part of the business communications 
norm course. She also continues to advise fourth-year
 business students.As a part of his job, Robertson intends to close 
 in the gaps between student life, the GSIA facul
ty, and other academic services. He also assures
- that he will do his utmost to help them excel in 
their areas of interest.Robertson believes that the students at 
 Carnegie Mellon are extremely intelligent and 
* brilliant but they need to be given adequate 
^ support so that they can make better use of 
 their potentials. Robertson offered the exam
ple of one of his students who was once on academic probation but was able to turn around 
and make the deans list because he received a 
' little encouragement and support. For 
! Robertson, it was a matter of convincing the
student to better apply his potential and avoid doing the bad stuff.Carnegie Mellon is not a new place for Mr. 
Robertson as hes been working on a Ph.D in 
history since 1996. His primary topic concerns the social mobility in 19th century America, 
specifically examining the effects of Civil War 
reinstallments and pensions. Modern Chinese, 
family history, demography and world history are some of his other fields of historical study. 
He has also served as head teaching assistant for the departments introduction to history 
course.Beyond his new role in GSIA and his doctoral work, Robertson has been a part of the 
coaching staff for the Tartan football team for 
the past six years. Robertson is in his sixth season on the Carnegie Mellon staff and his first 
as defensive secondary coach. For Robertson, 
football has been his lifetime support for over 
19 years now. As an undergraduate, Robertson earned three varsity letters as an inside line
backer and nose guard for the University of 
Chicago in the early 80s before returning to 
the school to earn a bachelors degree in histo
ry in 1986. He later held several positions in the University of Chicagos and DePauw 
Universitys Athletic Departments through the 
80s and earlier 90s. Robertson then served as 
assistant head football coach, defensive coordinator, and assistant track coach at Concordia 
University prior to his arrival at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Robertson lives in Squirrel Hill with his wife Anqi. She is currently completing her Ph.D in Neural Sciences at the University of Pittsburgh.
Courtesy Carnegie Mellon Football 2001 program
John Robertson in the new director and depart
mental advisor for the undergraduate BA program.
US economy, markets reel in aftermath of terrorist 
attacks, outlooks remain fraught with uncertainty
; by Chirag Nangia
; Junior StaffwriterI; After having stabilized in an 
already tough year, the markets 
saw sharp drops after reopening 
following the September 11 
tragedy.It was clear investors, after 
watching the hub of the worlds . markets being attacked, were in a 
; flurry to sell. The Dow Jones 
Industrial Average fell to almost ; 8,000, a far cry from nearly^ . 12,000 nearly a year earlier. More 
. dramatically, the NASDAQ aver^age fell more than 1,400 follow^ing the attacks, a 75% drop from 
2^the all-time high reached just last 
^*year. Much like life will never be 
j^the same for many of us, the mar* kets follow the same logic. 
; Although in the past week, the 
 market averages have stabilized at 
 somewhat higher levels since the 
 incidents, it is clear investor confidence is shaky and that getting 
new buyers into the market will 
be tough.
~ While noting averages are important in noticing overall trends, it is 
the individual stocks that are hurt* ing, reflective of the businesses themselves. The airline sector is
hurting, with many passengers still 
afraid to travel because of the 
attacks. With the notable excep
tion of Southwest Airlines, the rest of the major carriers are facing a 
major crisis, and only with the 
recent $15 billion bailout from the 
government, will be able to keep 
flying.
Southwest Airlines was able to 
survive in an industry where 
heavy borrowing to buy expensive 
aircraft is common  it had a net 
debt-to-capital ratio of 33% com
pared to 59% at American Airlines parent company AMR, 
66% at Uniteds parent UAL, and 
88% at Continental, according to Salomon Smith Barney. Also, 
with a healthy cash reserve, it 
managed to survive without any 
layoffs, while the other major car
riers sent pink slips to over ten 
thousand workers each. The bad 
news is not all for US airlines 
though. If Swissair were not 
bailed out over the past weekend by the Swiss government with a 
quarter billion dollar loan, it 
would have gone belly up.In the month of September, 
American companies shed nearly 
half a million jobs, with more 
than 200,000 layoffs originating 
from the airline and travel indus
tries. More layoffs are expected during October, when other com
panies begin to feel the effect of 
slower economy. In the past year, 
over a million workers have lost 
their jobs from the manufacturing 
industries themselves, showing a 
widespread slow down.
The White House is trying to 
send large aid packages (over $75 
billion) to businesses and con
sumers. Just last Friday, 
President Bush urged Congress to 
approve at least $60 billion in fresh tax cuts to boost the staggering economy 
Democrats in Congress have 
objected that the administration 
wants to tilt the stimulus package 
and tax cuts too much in favor of 
wealthy. They are seeking bigger 
increases in benefits for lowincome workers and those who 
have been laid off as a result of 
the terrorist attacks. A bipartisan 
group of senators and House 
members has been meeting regularly to talk over these items as 
well as the long-range budget 
implications of an economic stimulus plan 
While these recent events have 
added significantly to the drop
ping confidence in the economy, 
some analysts are telling investors
to hold on, and keep an eye open 
for an upward trend early next year. In the past week, stocks 
have stabilized, and analysts are 
predicting a similar outlook for 
upcoming weeks, with markets 
rebounding in 2002. Right now, 
economists biggest concern is that consumer spending, which 
accounts for two-thirds of total 
economic activity, will drop off 
sharply as Americans cut back on 
purchases because of their worries about losing a job and the rising uncertainty as the American 
military builds up for a war 
against terrorism.
Impact of attacks continue to 
threaten US economic welfare
This could be selfdefeating  a secure, 
but stagnant country.
by Ankur Bhasin
The aftermath of the terrorist attack on September 11 that 
sparked Americas New War has 
seen the slumping of the 
American economy. With Tokyos Nikkei index plunging surprising
ly just six months ago, then the 
following of the downward accel
eration in e-commerce sector, the 
US economy has suffered. If the head-down plunge of Dow Jones 
Industrial Average on September 
17 was not enough to harrow up your financial and monetary 
souls, think about another thing. As the government tries to step up 
and help the economy recover,portions of ________________
the US 
economy 
will grow, and new 
ones may emerge.
With more ------------------------
and more government involve
ment to strengthen security, bol
ster faltering businesses, and stave off an impending recession, it is 
clear that the public sector will 
grow occupying a larger share of 
the US economy than usual. This 
could be self-defeating  a secure, but stagnant country.
With the possibility of war at 
hand, the shifting of economic 
resources from the private sector 
to defense and security related 
spending could lower the growth 
rates (estimated $18.4 billion). 
With over $40 billion being spent 
on emergency and social causes 
for deaths, injuries, protection, and unemployment, the govern
ment clearly has a larger hand in 
allocating the capital now. Boeing 
announced 30,000 job cuts over 
the world by the end of next year 
and American Airlines and United, 
each laying off 20,000, the gov
ernment has to come out with a solution for this steadily growing unemployment rate, which clearly 
mean heavy social spending. Also,
with the future overcast by clouds of uncertainty policy makers have a larger role, not just to play but to make sure they win.
Increased immigration control and fear in the minds of people 
will be another force limiting the 
labor markets and hence slowing 
down growth. Investors without a 
compass are already unwilling to invest and those who are, demand 
higher returns for the extra risk. Consumers are already showing their infidelity as we look at the 
estimated corporate incomes for the next year. According to 
Business Week, On September 25, the Conference Board report
ed that its consumer confidence
_______________ index
plunged to 
97.6 in the 
wake of the attack, from 
114 in 
August, the lowest read
ing since 1990. Retrenchment 
will only lower the index furthef. 
The $17.5 billion to airlines ($24 
billion was requested) clearly 
shows that the governments hand is required in the economy to sta
bilize it.
While we have these facts star
ing us in the face, there are econo
mists that hope for better. 
Treasury Secretary Paul ONeill 
thinks the damage of September 
11 is not a stopper. Based on the current situation, economists fore
casting a half-point to two per
centage points growth for the US 
economy in 2002. However, from 
the responses and behavior of 
business leaders, investors, and 
consumers around the world, it remains evident that the impact 
may be far more extensive. If the US economy picks up soon, the 
question to be answeredis 
whether any gains will be sustainable.
Ankur Bhasin is a sophmore busi
ness major. He welcomes all respon
sible replies to his article.
Business Briefs
Nations work 
for recovery
Alcoa earnings down, meets target
PITTSBURGH CAP)  Alcoas drops.
Market Newscompiled by Robert Fetterman/Business Editor
MARKETSNASDAQ LAST WEEK
Index
Dow Jones Industrials 
Nasdaq Composite 
American Stock Ex. 
Standard & Poors
WORLD MARKETS
Index
FTSE 100 (Britain) 
Nikkei (Japan)
DAX (Germany)
Friday
9,119.77
1,605.30
833.28
1,071.38
Last Time
8,235.81
1,423.19
786.82
965.80
Point Chg.
+883.96 
+ 182.11 
+46.46 
+105.58
% Change
+ 10.73% 
+12.80% 
+5.90% 
+10.93%
Friday Last Time
5,036.00 4,433.70
10,205.90 9,554.99
4,487.69 3,787.23
Point Chg.
+602.30
+650.91
+700.46
% Change
+ 13.58% 
+6.81% 
+ 18.50%
earnings in the third quarter fell 
8 percent as the company strug
gled with weak transportation 
and construction markets, ener
gy shortages and sagging alu
minum prices.
The worlds largest aluminum company said it expected weak 
demand to continue into the 
fourth quarter as airplane and 
auto sales fall following the 
September 11 terrorist attacks. The company said it would still 
meet its goal of cutting $1 billion from costs by 2003.
Alcoa on Thursday met ana
lysts earnings expectations of 
$339 million, or 39 cents a share. In the third quarter of last 
year, Alcoa earned $368 million, or 42 cents a share.
Revenues fell to $5.5 billion, compared with $6.3 billion in 
the same period last year.
The Pittsburgh-based compa
ny said transportation, building 
and construction, and industrial 
products markets in Europe and the United States did not 
rebound from second-quarter
The company shipped 3.8 
million metric tons of aluminum 
in the third quarter, down 3 percent from the second quarter. 
Primary aluminum shipments 
fell 11 percent from the second 
quarter.
Energy shortages in 
Washington state and Brazil 
idled three plants, cutting 
smelting by about 710,000 
metric tons or 18 percent of its 
4.1 million-ton capacity.
The companys Wenatchee 
Works smelter near Malaga, 
Washington, will be shut down 
until September next year and 
plants in Brazil were shut down last month for the sec
ond time this year as Brazil 
rationed energy.
Aluminum prices also continued to slide, falling five cents a 
pound in the third quarter and 
down 8 cents from the same 
time last year.
Net income for the first nine 
months was $1.05 billion, 
slightly down from $1.09 billion 
in the same period last year.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 15 widely-held 
stocks that we feel represent Pittsburgh-based and 
national companies that CMU students are interested in. 
The index is based on a start date of 7 September. The 
initial index is calculated by adding the value of the 15 
stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE________
Change: +284.40
Historical performance: -410.90
Best performer: US Airways, +27.03%
Worst performer: Qualcomm, -14.32%
INDEX STATISTICS
CompanyFriday Last Time Change % Change
Alcoa31.5428.30+3.24 +11.45%
Apple Computer16.1415.73+0.41+2.61%
Cisco Systems14.9412.09+2.85 +23.57%
Freemarkets13.5412.34+1.20+9.72%
H J. Heinz Co.42.3741.00+1.37+3.34%
Terra Lycos5.754.64+1.11 +23.92%
Mellon Bank31.3730.25+1.12+3.70%
Microsoft57.7249.71+8.01 +16.11%
New York Times39.8139.00+0.81+2.08%
PNC Bank56.0852.42+3.66+6.98%
PPG47.50 40.71+6.79 +16.68%
Qualcomm38.4644.89-6.43-14.32%
Sun Microsystems9.877.96+1.91 +23.99%
US Airways5.784.55+1.23 +27.03%
USX Steel14.6013.44+1.16+8.63%
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information
contained in Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University. Before 
purchasing any stock, always consult a professional.
Treasury Secretary Paul ONeill 
pledged last Friday that the 
United States will do its part to shore up the global economy in 
the wake of last months terrorist 
attacks.
ONeill and Federal Reserve 
Chairman Alan Greenspan will be 
the hosts for discussions on Saturday of finance officials from 
the worlds seven richest industrial 
countries.
In addition to developing a coordinated strategy to boost global 
growth, the Group of Seven offi
cials will review plans for choking 
off money flowing to terrorist 
organizations.
In advance of the G-7 discus
sions, International Monetary 
Fund Managing Director Horst Koehler said all policy-makers 
needed to closely cooperate to 
make sure that the global down
turn doesnt worsen.
In a statement released Friday 
by the IMF, Koehler cited the 
actions of major central banks to 
cut interest rates to boost growth 
as giving reason to hope that 
coordinated efforts will work. 
Those rate cuts have been led by 
the Federal Reserve, which has 
pushed a key-short term rate it 
controls down to its lowest level in nearly 40 years.
The G-7 countries are the United 
States, Japan, Germany, France, 
United Kingdom, Italy and Canada.
Previewing Saturdays discus
sions, ONeill told reporters that he 
planned to tell the other finance 
ministers that the U.S. economy 
will drop into negative territory in 
the July-September quarter 
because of the September 11 
attacks but should then stage a quick rebound.
He said this economic recovery 
will be aided by the interest rate 
cuts and earlier tax cuts passed by 
Congress and an additional stimu
lus package that the administration is working with lawmakers to 
put into place.
Bush pushes 
new tax cuts
President Bush on Friday said 
that about $60 billion in increased 
spending for reconstruction and 
increased unemployment benefits 
should be accompanied by $60 bil
lion in new tax cuts for individuals 
and businesses.
President Bush urged Congress 
to authorize at least $60 billion in 
fresh tax cuts to boost the stagger
ing economy without resorting to 
the broad new government spend
ing sought by many Democrats.
The announcement followed a 
Thursday night meeting on the 
White Houses Truman Balcony 
during which House Republican 
leaders described for Bush a 
growing concern among conserv
atives that he appeared too open 
to Democratic spending propos
als ranging from health insur
ance assistance to railroad con
struction.
At the meeting, which a senior 
White House official character
ized as brutally frank, GOP 
leaders said they believed Bushs 
statements were being misinter
preted by many in Congress and 
advised him to communicate his 
thinking on the stimulus plan 
more clearly, said one partici
pant who spoke on condition of 
anonymity.
Bush, flanked by his top eco
nomic advisers in the White House Rose Garden, said Friday the gov
ernment is already responding 
with about $60 billion in spending 
to the aftermath of the September 
11 terrorist attacks, including his 
proposal to extend unemployment 
benefits by 13 weeks.
The president called for addi
tional tax cuts totaling about the 
same $60 billion.
In order to stimulate the econo
my, Congress doesnt need to spend any more money. What they 
need to do is cut taxes, Bush said.
The presidents plan would include accelerating some or all of 
the income tax rate cuts now set to 
take effect in 2004 and 2006 as 
part of the 10-year, $1.35 trillion 
tax relief measure enacted earlier 
this year. Treasury Secretary Paul 
ONeill has proposed moving the 1 
percentage point reduction in the 27 percent income tax rate from 
2004 to 2002, a Treasury official said.
Because the bottom 10% and 
15% tax brackets would not be 
reduced, Bush said Congress 
should make sure that lowand 
moderate-income workers get tax 
relief as well. The leading option 
is a new round of tax rebate 
checks, which could arrive in time 
for the critical holiday shopping season.
For businesses, Bush proposed 
repeal of the corporate alternative 
minimum tax, which can impose 
big tax bills on struggling business
es, and greater expensing write
offs for business capital invest
ment. House GOP leaders are con
sidering a 30 percent immediate 
expensing write-off for all assets, 
perhaps with a three-year time limit.
Prices of gas 
and oil drop
Natural gas prices are plummeting as demand is leveling out in a softened economy.
Weak demand from industrial 
users and adequate supplies have made natural gas more than 50 
percent less expensive than last 
year. The wholesale price of gas 
peaked briefly at $10 per 1,000 
cubic feet in January, but has fallen 
dramatically since  dipping below $2 on the spot market, a 30- month low.
Crude is about 30% cheaper per 
barrel this year, falling precipitous
ly after the September 11 terrorist attacks.
Compiled by 
Robert Fetterman

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8. 2001
GET IN FREE WITH VALID CMU STUDENT IDPITTSBURGH SYMPHONY CLASSICS
studentseries sponsored byspopi
 Mellon
ESSAY CONTEST 2002
Were not like every 
other high-tech company 
Were hiring.
SUGGESTED TOPICS
Why am we here? How are zve to meet our ethical obligationst 
Reflect on the most profound moral dilemma you 
have encountered and what it has taught you about ethics. 
What ethical issue concerns you most and what 
concrete proposals would you make to deal with it?
ket comes back they will be very eager to hire our students for business positions, said former BA Director Claudia Kirkpatrick.Junior BA major Brian Vest characterized the event as poorly organized. Several students opined that an adult-run event would create bonds with recruiters. Currently, the BOC is sponsored by the Carnegie Mellon Business Association, a student club whose pecuniary relationship with the University is in doubt. Faculty and staff will play a larger role next year in helping with the BOC, said CMBA president Linda Wang. Professors and BA
Somewhere between seven and eight hundred students attended the event this year, an indication that we are reaching out to other majors, said the co-chairs. However, many business majors did not share the same enthusiasm. Many BA students were disappointed with the lack of a business focus at the conference. The inclusion of all students, especially graduate students at the Heinz School, created longer lines at company information booths, wasting time for BA students seeking business-oriented internships and full time positions upon graduation.If the BOC is done for the business stu
for technical students. Both scenarios caused widespread dissatisfaction among BA majors. Out of the 29 BOC attendees, 27 recruiters were searching for information technology majors in either a full-time or internship capacity.The TOC had so many recruiters looking for techies. And it ended up that most of the recruiters at the BOC were looking for techies also. [The BOC was] too technology concentrated, said junior BA major Alex Chan.
not seem to recognize that it is inherent
ly so. Many believe that ones outlook on 
the employment market should not be completely dependent upon the external 
opportunities, but also on how one 
chooses to define her or his own ideals 
and ambitions. If I could find my ideal 
job to begin with, Id be doing well! Work is only worth it while youre interested 
and getting something out of it, so I think 
it is healthy to realize youll move around over time, said Feusner. To talk about 
[static] ideals is silly, when were all 
works in progress.
Conferences, Mancuso points out that, 
From the employers that we spoke to, they were very happy to be able to participate this year, and as always, were 
extremely pleased with the students they 
met with. Its important to note even jthough attracting more employers to 
campus is always a goal, it is also important to understand how we can connect 
with those organizations who will never 
come to campus. The Career Center is very focused on this. Although campus 
recruiting and job fairs are probably our 
most visible employment related activiJennifer Liu, Managing Editor, Kristen 
Romonovich, Copy Staff contributed.
Friday, October 12,8 pm 
Sunday, October 14, 2:30 pm
Osmo Vanska, conductor
Timothy Adams, timpani and percussion
SIBELIUS; Symphony No. 5 
0LIVERI0: "The Messenger" Batterie des Temps 
immemorial, commissioned by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
GRIEG: Peer Gynt Suite
Our Principal Timpanist takes a kstar turn in a concerto especially commissioned for him. Follow Griegs great musical adven_ Jj|| 
rtire Peer Gynt, featuring f'Vf-thc popular classic P^fpIn the Hail of the Mountain King.
Start your Thursday night off with a trip to Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History. 
Where you can learn about everything from Degas to dinosaurs to diamonds.
Grab something to eat Even pick up a gift. All by 9:00 pm.
f Carnegie 
Museum 
of Natural 
 History
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART
CMU students - reserve discounted tickets at the university center information
desk or call 412/392-4900' ' : .  " " "Order online www.pittsburghsymphonv.org
Student Rush
two hours before 
every concert!Two of (he four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh  Forbes Avenue, Oakland  Ample on-site parking
No one told you the hardest part of being an engineer would be finding 
your first job. Of course, it s still possible to get the high-tech work 
you want by joining the U.S. Air Force. You can leverage your degree 
immediately and get hands-on experience with some of the most 
sophisticated technology on earth.To find out how to get your career off 
the ground, call 1-800-423-USAF or visit our Web site at airforce.com.
ELIGIBILITY: FULL-TIME JUNIOR AND SENIOR UNDERGRADUATES 
DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 2001
In addidon to completing a Student EntryForm, the student is required to 
have a professor review the essay and fill out a Faculty Sponsor Form. Any 
interested professor may act as a Faculty Sponsor. The college or university 
is not required to have an official coordinator for the contest; however, 
your campus may have, or wish to establish, an internal set of procedures.
FIRST PRIZE: $5,000 
SECOND PRIZE: $2,500 THIRD PRIZE: $1,500 
TWO HONORABLE MENTIONS: $500 EACH
Entry form and detailed guidelines available online 
at www.eBewiesettoundatkm.org, or by sending a 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to:
The Elie Wiesel Prize in Ethics /
The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity I
529 Fifth Avenue, Suite 1802 ' \
New York, NY 10017
Telephone: 212.490.7777
Grads, seniors face tough times 
in unstable employment market
Co-chairs cite stagnant economy, attacks as 
cause of poor corporate showing at 2001 BOC
BA students unhappy with job fair formatJOBS, from page A3 -- and analytical skills, creative abilities, and 
1 Mwork ethic, said Mancuso. In the current 7 economy, many companies slashed their 
\ recruiting efforts across the country  ; meaning that they have significantly i reduced the number of universities which 
\ they will be recruiting from. In many I cases, these companies have cut more 
! "than 3/4 [of universities from their 
\ recruiting lists]. However, Carnegie 
I Mellon has remained on the majority of 
\ , these lists  a clear indication of the 
\ value placed on the skills and education 
} our students bring with them to the workI place./ n Responding to the observations of low; ered employer turnout at the recent r Business and Technical Opportunities
ties, we do not consider either of those 
forums as the only way our students will find internships or professional employ
ment.The CMU Career Center also strives 
towards increasing CMUs visibility in the job market. We are focused on devel
oping new relationships with organiza
tions  we have a professional on our staff who does a significant amount of research, travel and outreach with 
prospective employers and alumni asso
ciations, said Mancuso. We are always seeking new ways to connect our stu
dents with employers and invite and encourage student input.Everyone agrees that searching for 
work is an onerous task, although the 
new entrants to working adulthood do
by Brad GrantzManaging editor
Business students have expressed disappointment at the quality of this years Business Opportunities Conference. The BOC experienced nearly a 50% decline in the number of recruiters, down from last years high of 59.What BOC? You mean that was the BOC? said junior BA major Chris Navin.This years conference was as good as it could have been, considering the state of the economy and the' events of September11, said BOC co-chairs Jenny Stapleton and Rina Mansukhani. Stapleton has had a substantial role in the BOC since her freshman year.
dents in the University, it should be geared towards them, said junior computational finance major Alex Goldvug. According to Dr. Milton Colfield, most BA students choose finance or consulting manufacturing management as a track. However, those sectors were poorly represented at the conference.We should look at which tracks are popular and do our best to attract companies in those fields, said Goldvug.Several companies in attendance were not hiring, causing frustration among employment-hungry juniors and seniors.Even those representatives whose companies have no immediate plans for hiring said that the BOC is a very important method for them to keep in contact with Carnegie Mellon, because when the maradministration will assist in the contacting of companies and their respective recruiting representatives.Navin suggested that the BOC organizers should comprehensively list firms searching for interns and those wanting full time employees.[The BOC should] clearly identify which companies are looking for interns and which ones are not. Perhaps list them in a category in the BOC booklet... rather than just Yes or blank as they did this year, said Navin.Several business firms searched for information systems majors at both the BOC and TOC. Investment companies like Goldman Sachs attended only the TOC this year. Seagate Technologies was among the ranks of corporations recruiting at the BOC

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
BY PAUL RICHELMI
Editor *s Note: Due to Scotch n Sodas production 
of Blood Brothers, only the Sunday movie will be 
shown. However, if you choose to rent the movies 
below, then enjoy the following.
Trolosa (Faithless)
This movie has no faith. No faith whatsoever. There is no 
faith in life, faith in people, faith in anything. The movie walks 
around with its head down and its film trailing off of the end. 
Why it walks, I dont know. Its a film reel, so it can just roll 
itself to wherever it wants to go. During windy days, it gets 
blown over sideways and becomes scraped and bruised. Leaves 
get caught in the spindles when they fall from the trees. The 
poor movie cant walk around, or roll, without getting 
destroyed.
Its obvious why the movie has no faith. It has nothing in 
which to place its faith. Perhaps it should walk to an old theater, 
and ask to be put on the projector. The film would then have a 
purpose, a meaning for living. It would be providing entertain
ment for many many people, giving them hope and happiness. 
It would in turn be giving them faith, a faith which the film 
never had. The film is a good film, and has a good heart. It is a 
generous and humanitarian film. Trolosa, I salute you.
Shrek
What happens when you put a green giant and a smart-ass in 
a movie? You get a hilarious summer movie. This conglomera
tion of fairy tales is one of the most creative movies of all time. 
It also happens that its totally computer animated, which is 
astounding in itself. I was a believer when I saw this movie. 
Eddie Murphy as the donkey was a great choice. Departing on 
a journey with any form of Eddie Murphy would by hysterical. 
Even having him in a little voice box would be amusing. He 
could recreate the Klumps, or he could morph into Mr. 
Robinson, or Buh-wheet, or wanting to kill all da white peo
ple.
Then imagine running into a giant green ogre with Eddie 
Murphy as your sidekick. The comments would be non-stop! 
Just as they are in Shrek. What if you had to climb Mt. Everest 
with Eddie Murphy, with him as a donkey. I would place bets 
on him not making it. Hed be all talk, all the way up. Hed have 
a biting remark for the biting temperatures, and a cool response 
for the cool wind trying to knock him off of his hooves. Finally, 
as youd climp up the giant ice walls, hed fall, plummeting to a 
sharp and rough icicle death. Youd be rid of him, but youd be 
lonely. Youd find an abandoned volleyball on the way, and 
paint a face on it. It would be your traveling companion, forev
er and ever.
The Score
Whats better than Ed Norton, Robert DiNiro, and Marlon 
Brando? Nothing that I can think of off hand. Perhaps a weeklong vacation in Bermuda. No, make that a month long. What 
could you do in a month in Bermuda? The island is so small, 
and a month is quite a long time. You can only go swimming so 
much, before you get crinkly and dried up because of the salt. 
Im sure theres lots of clubbing and bar hopping, but that gets 
old easily. Perhaps a month in Bermuda wouldnt be worse 
than going to see The Score on Saturday.
The Score needs to be settled. There is a neat three-way mindgame played in this movie, and it is not to be missed. Brando is 
great, reminiscent of his character in The Freshman. Matthew 
Broderick was great in that. He did get an awesome job, 
though. So what if you have to get an extinct komodo dragon? 
He got paid really well, and also got the respect of his class
mates. If only everyone could be mugged on their first day of 
school.
Joe vs. The Volcano 
Sunday, October 14
Awww, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan ... again. Lets give them 
credit, though, they are good together. They have that romantic-comedy chemistry going. Ive never taken Tom Hanks for a 
hypochondriac, though. He gets sick here, and tries to throw 
himself into a volcano. Most likely, hell fall in love. Its kind of 
a mix between Its a Wonderful Life and An Affair to Remember. 
He just misses something, but realizes how wonderful his life is 
in the interim.
What exactly is Joe doing against the volcano? It seems as if 
the volcano is going to swallow Joe up. Imagine what a painful 
death that would be. Youd be burned alive by the molten rock. 
And youd be hitting it hard too, its not like dipping your toe 
into it. There must be an easier way to get it over with. But, 
alas, the bulk of the story depends on Joe jumping in. Go see it, 
and decide what you would do.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
8 October 2001 THE TARTAN Page B6
Corky Romano - cheesy, but enjoyable
by Sara Stille
Co-Editor-in-Chief
Looking for a cheesy, upbeat, quirky comedy? Look no further 
than Corky Romano. When I walked into Manor Theater last Tuesday 
night for the free showing of the film, I had low expectations. They 
were further lowered when I was 
handed a facemask of Corky with 
his huge eyes and goofy big smile, which, to be honest, actually fright
ened me.
While I was prepared by now to 
waste an hour and a half of my day, 
I was pleasantly surprised and found the film to be quite enjoyable 
and humorous. In the opening scenes we discover that the 
Romanos, a major mob family, is in 
danger of being brought down by the FBI. We meet all the key players 
in the family, the ill father, Pops 
(Peter Faulk), the two tough-guy 
brothers, Peter (Peter Burg) and 
Paulie (Chris Penn), and, last but 
not least, the forgotten younger 
brother, Corky (Chris Kattan, a 
member of the Saturday Night Live 
cast for five years).Corky makes his entrance into 
the movie singing Take on Me at 
the top of his lungs, while riding 
in his yellow convertible with 
Corkstar as the license plate. 
The audience was rolling. 
Although I usually find Kattan to be an annoying character with 
way too much enthusiasm and 
excessive facial gestures, I found 
Corky to be surprisingly amusing. 
While Kattan retained the facial 
expressions and the goofiness, he 
kept everything in balance and 
never seemed to cross the line to 
irritating.
Lonely Planet Boy album not just for 
goth and emo kids, smiley ones, too
See CORKY, page B7
Metallenium Tour satisfies fans despite cancellations
by Albert Cohen
Staffwriter
This tour was billed as the Loudest Tour on 
Earth andwould have brought some of the 
titans of European death metal to these shores. 
But, due to recent events, Napalm Death, Witchery, and Dimmu Borgir couldnt make it. 
Rather than cancel what would have been the 
greatest assembly of death metal bands this 
world has ever seen, Six Feet Under chose to
carry on with the tour and invite bands already 
on this continent to take part. Taking the place 
of these European stalwarts were relative new
comers God Forbid and Lamb of God, as well as 
opener Darkest Hour. There was definitely a 
sense of disappointment in the air to go with the 
sea of Dimmu Borgir and Napalm Death shirts 
in the audience, but that quickly dissipated as 
Darkest Hour took the stage.
Looking like guys that could have fit in at 
punk/hardcore show, they ripped into their set 
with fervor and honesty. But, I have to say that
their music didnt inspire me as much the next 
three bands. They definitely had youthful energy 
and powerful vocals on their side, but I feel that 
their sound needed a bit of time to develop and 
harden. But that may very well be on account of 
the fact that they could play only a handful of 
songs during their allotted time. Their latest 
record is now out on Victory Records, and from what I hear, they play in Pittsburgh often, so go 
check em out and see for yourself. After a brief 
set change, God Forbid was up.
See METALLENIUM, page B7
Judas Priest continues tradition of classic heavy 
metal music with their new album, Demolition
just stop without a musical conclusion, because the last sounds of 
the song are a lone voice singing about being in a home-made plane 
as it is shot down. The album moves right on into A Fragile 
Apology  the sort of song that 
youll feel deeply, even if you dont want it to: What could be worse than to see you tear-stained and 
stinging? This song handles commendably well a subject that everyone feels and few are able to 
express at all, let alone by totally avoiding the trap of being corny.
Title Track is a simple, quiet, 
(live) studio recording, complete with comments like alright, I 
think were ready... okay... that, 
after the song was over, made me want to applaud, even though I 
was listening to the CD and no one else was in the room. I confess that 
I didnt actually, but just wait till I 
hear it live.
Abandoning the quiet acoustics for thrumming horror flick music,
by Albert Cohen
Staffwriter
The leather, the whips, the 
Harley Davidsons... If all those 
things dont summon up memories 
of a weekend at Grandmas, then 
they should at least remind you of 
the quintessential heavy metal 
band, Judas Priest. Every single 
stereotype imaginable that has ever 
been attributed to metal in general; 
(well, except glam make-up any
way) has its origin in the career of 
this fine band. And thats cool, really. I personally hate all the pretense 
that goes in what passes for rock 
music today. From lifeless, limp 
guitarists to whiny, girlish vocalists, 
there seems to be a lack of good straight up rock n roll out there. 
So, when a new Judas Priest album 
comes out, its always a reason to 
head out to the music store and see what these guys have done lately. 
Yes, they may seem campy to the 
uninformed, but musically they are 
untouchable. Anyone remembering 
the line to the last Britney Spears 
song twenty years from now is well, 
unlikely, but I guarantee that youll still be singing Breaking the Law 
then. Admit it, youre doing it now!
A large part of that appeal was 
Rob Halford and his siren wail, but 
with that gone, a new era has 
begun. This is a band that put out 
British Steel and then less than 10 
years later re-invented itself with 
Painkiller (This iiiiiiiiiisssss the 
Pain Killa!!!!!!!! Ahem, sorry 
about that!) So with that track ecord they should be able to hold
their own and evolve, no? Well yes 
and no. When they plucked Tim Ripper Owens from obscurity in 
Cleveland (the guy who fronted a Priest cover band), people really 
wondered if he would imitate the 
Halford sound or strike out with a 
style of his own. So, when we heard 
Jugulator in 97, we were sur
prised for many reasons. Yes, he 
could sing, but it all sounded like ... 
Pantera. Awesome! Pantera, along 
with Slayer, are the kings of this 
damn genre, and credit Priest For 
inspiring them to play. But they are 
different, and it seemed odd that 
the originators would be copping 
their style. But, especially with 
Cathedral Spires, the closer on 
that album, these two styles, oper
atic-melodic, and heavy-aggres
sive, seemed to coalesce and truly 
develop a true new Judas Priest.So, with all that history, I tore 
into the new offering from the pur
veyors of only the finest Brit-Metal 
to find a pleasant surprise. The 
opener, Machine Man starts with 
a staccato riff similar to 
Painkiller, and gets progressively 
heavier. One on One, Hell is 
Home, and Jekyll and Hyde con
tinue on in this new heavier direction. The first real surprise is Close 
to You. Its a power ballad, but it 
could easily be on modern rock radio. This I mean in a good way, 
because it is a sincere song about 
loss and recurring memories. Im 
not ashamed to say I love this song! But, fear not manly men cuz it gets 
heavy again. By the way, Im also not ashamed to say that I saw Rock 
Star and loved the soundtrack too.
Anyone who caught Lonely Planet Boy on campus at the September 22 WRCT compilation 
CD release concert will know that 
these guys dont play happy music. Heck, their name is Lonely Planet 
Boy. But that doesnt mean the smiley kids wont like em, and nor 
does it mean that theyre only for 
goth and emo kids.Musically, this album is very 
controlled; lyrics aside, the musicians are very careful  cautious, 
almost  and precise. Still, there is none of that polished gleam that 
makes really professional bands so unappealing, no sense of the 
rehearsed-to-perfection, playeduntil-its-lost-all-meaning sort of 
control. The vocals are captivat
ing, and combined with the often, but not always, grim lyrics, well 
its a perfect album for a sullen 
Friday night of all work and no 
play.The third track, Skyscraper, 
ends abruptly but is complete and
But, I digress. Devil Digger gets back down to business and bleeds 
in to Bloodsuckers, another 
heavy track which I believe is the 
first single. Anyway, In Between 
is another slow track that catches 
my attention.
Unfortunately, the scream is not 
as ever-present in this album, but in 
its place we find a more reserved 
piercing growl, maybe even remi
niscent of Alice in Chains. I dont know, maybe Im reading to much 
into this new stuff. But, regardless 
of where the inspiration comes
by Emma Rehm
Copy Co-Manager
From the calm, quiet opening of the new (yet to be released!) 
album to the haunting instrumen
tal closure, its evident that Lonely Planet Boy has grown up, and that 
Hey. Who Wants To Be Friends With 
Me is a masterful, carefully 
planned theme album.The first and second tracks, 
parts one and two of a larger song called Golden-red, open the 
album up with an engaging moodiness. More particularly, the mood 
divides into dark themes of blind
ness and sorrow  much deeper 
than the last albums melancholy  which run through the album 
from beginning to end. The album 
is a mood spectrum that ends by bringing the listener back toward 
the beginning, with Reddened 
Gold  a subtle linguistic way of insisting that its not a complete
from it works and the album closes 
with another winner, Metal 
Messiah. Opening with a killer riff, 
we get Ripper doing stop start 
vocals over his scream backed by classic Priest guitars by KK and 
Glenn. All this and a bit of a sitar 
excursion complete with vocals. If 
any song should sum up this album, 
its this one. All in all, a worthwhile 
and surprisingly good effort. Catch 
these boys when they hit Cleveland 
sometime soon!
1

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
INVESTMENT STRATEGIES 
THAT ARE CLEAR 
AND CONCISE. 
EVEN IF OUR NAME ISNT.
Aside from our name, weve always been in favor of making things simple.
So contact us for smart, easy investment techniques to help you reach your financial goals
TIAA-CREF.org or call 1.800.842.2776
Corky is now left to find the evidence against his family, while also convincing the other FBI agents thatFINAL GRADE: A
Kattan hits the big screen in Corky Romano
CORKY, from page B6
Corky is the disowned brother of the Romano family. When his mother died, he was kicked out of his 
house and became an assistant veterinarian at Pussies and Pooches. But when his family is trouble 
with the FBI, Corky comes to the rescue.Despite his good nature and clumsiness, with his 
brothers help and a doctored resume, Corky soon 
becomes a top detective with the FBI as he tries to obtain the evidence they have incriminating his father. He becomes known as Agent Pissant and is put on one 
of the most dangerous cases.
he really is the top agent his resume says he is. The movie is full of close calls and quick saves.
Corky Romano was just the right length. In a day 
when movies tend to be getting longer and longer for no apparent reason, this film was around an hour and a half and that was perfect. It was enough to make 
some funny jokes and pose a decent plot, but not too much as to bore or annoy. Overall, I thought Corky 
Romano was a good movie. Although I think $8 is a lit
tle too much to pay for this movie, its almost worth it 
with this film just so you can watch and laugh at it with 
a large group of people.
Lonely Planet Boy album takes listener 
on round trip through music spectrum
LONELY, from page B6 
Gingerbread  with drummer Cuccaros surprisingly deep vocals 
 falls into the creepy-old-manluring-children-into-creepy-situations genre. Its reminiscent of the 
Violent Femmes disturbing Country Death Song, which, if 
you recall, features Gordon Gano yelling heart-wrenchingly about 
throwing his child into a bottom
less piiiiit.
The album picks up speed and 
energy around the ninth track, 
Warning Song. With the cheerful 
and delicate banjo and faster tempo, you might be fooled into 
thinking that this is, in fact, a
cheerful song altogether.The eleventh track returns us to 
the center of the albums mood, as 
a somewhat mournful piece, full of 
mournful wails and mournful 
horns (they make few appearances on this album, but their presence is 
appreciated). Olfactory Nerve 
deals with the ever-mournful sub
ject of Breaking Up and Dealing 
With the Other Ones Stuff.
The last track  instrumental 
 rounds out the album with a 
nice dose of quiet piano and 
drumming, as a sort of goodbye 
number where, rather than riding 
off into the sunset, we walk back 
into our houses and turn out the
lights.Lonely Planet Boys new album 
Hey. Who Wants To Be Friends With 
Me is scheduled for release in 
stores on October 16, and at the 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern, for the 
October 13 CD release party. Has 
anyone else ever noticed that I 
only seem to review albums that I 
really like? Someone get me some 
radio pop, quick, before I start 
thinking that this world only 
makes good music! Or instead, 
you could just go support your 
local moody rock, people, and 
convince yourselves.
FINAL GRADE: A
Managing money for people
with other things to think about?
RETIREMENT j INSURANCEMUTUAL FUNDS i COLLEGE SAVINGS TRUSTS ; INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
TIAA-CREF .Individual and Institutional Services, iw.. and Teachers Personal Inwstws Services, Inc., distribute securities products.' 
 200! Teaciie/s insurance and Annuity AsMtation-Coticgfl Relircrrnt Equities Fund {TIAA-CREF). New York. NY, 08/20
Death metal bands come together 
for tour headed by Six Feet Under
METALLENIUM, from page B6With what could only be described as apocalyptic chamber music, they not only took the stage 
but rather they owned it from the first note they played. The (mosh) pit was just arms and legs flying (and a couple of backpacks too!), 
as metal and hardcore kids coordinated their anger and energy to 
the piecing vocals of Byron D. I have to admit that I had previous
ly only heard the odd song here and there from these guys, but I had no idea that they were that 
good! They reminded me a lot of 
Diecast, actually, which is maybe not so much of a coincidence. 
After the show, I had a chance to chat with Corey, the drummer, 
about his double bass sound and his influences. The man sounds 
like Dave Lombardo (ex-Slayer) at times, which he took as a compli
ment as Slayer was indeed a sig
nificant influence. He also talked about being friends with Diecast 
and touring with them and 
Hatebreed. In fact, according to 
Corey, we might be seeing them 
with Hatebreed here when (and 
if) they come with Slayer later this 
year. We can always hope that this tour stops here. But I digress. All I 
can say is that you should look for 
a review of their latest, 
Determination out on Century 
Media, as soon as possible and 
maybe a full length interview too. 
I whole heartedly endorse this 
band, and if youre lucky enough 
to be in Europe right now to check 
out Katatonia, look forward to 
these soon to be superstars too.
Next up, and the last band 
before Six Feet Under, was Lamb 
of God. Here again I had only 
heard a snippet of music, so I was also ill-prepared for what was to 
come. Also incorporating evil intro 
music, they took the stage and held their own with God Forbid. 
Randy Blythe is kind of an odd vocalist in that his style is not as 
directly violent and vicious as his 
peers, but it works, and very well. Once again, all I can comment on 
is what I heard and from that I can 
definitely say that there is a new generation of bands poised to take 
over, or at least take their place in,
the death metal genre. Truly Pure American Metal, these fine 
gentlemen from Virginia have a new album, New American Gospel, 
out on Metal Blade that I hope to review as soon as possible.Finally, it was time for who Id 
originally come to see. If you havent heard Six Feet Unders 
(SFU) music, then I can say I feel sorry for you. Other bands like Nile take Egyptian music and history and incorporate it into death 
metal to create something new, 
but SFU is an innovative band in another sense. Rather than seize upon external influences, they 
take death metal in its purest form, infuse some groove into the 
jackhammer blastbeat drumming, and use Chris Barness vocals as an instrument instead of just as a 
weapon. All of this combined with lyrics that are inspired by under
ground horror movies makes for a cool listening experience. 
Admittedly, this music isnt for 
everyone, even death metal fans, 
but those who dig it  like those 
in attendance Saturday night  love it to (pardon the pun) death.
So, as the sirens wailed the intro to War is Coming (which is kind 
of prophetic in retrospect, no?), 
the crowd on the foor surged to 
the front to sit at the feet of their 
master. Ever since his days with 
Cannibal Corpse, Barnes has 
always been the consummate per
former, a true showman in the era 
of faceless vocalists behind a wall 
of hair. We chanted along with
every angry word, pushed and 
punched the air. To outsiders, such unity in the face of such 
inherently violent music may seem odd, but they will truly never 
understand. Some more tracks from Warpath followed and were mixed throughout the set, but the standouts of the set were selec
tions from their breakout album, 
Maximum Violence. This is an album that for some reason 
caught on in circles outside of metal and landed them on the 
Warped tour of all places. Victim of the Paranoid was awesome in 
its forceful delivery and sounded even better live, and of course No 
Warning Shot with its chorus of Die Motherf*8c*#$r, Dieeeeeee!) 
sent us all into hysterics. Basically, there were no surprises during the set except for the relative drop in excitement over the new tunes 
they played from True Carnage 
(Metal Blade). Which is usually 
expected for any band playing new songs in a set full of old favorites. 
Still, SFU fans are really more 
rabid than others and so when standouts like Impulse to 
Disembowel kind of fall a bit flat, 
its a shame. But, all of this wasforgotten when the band laid into 
tracks from Haunted for their 
encore. Human Target and the 
obvious closer Beneath a Black Sky were played to perfection 
and sent the faithful flock home 
happy This concert event was 
truly a beautiful experience for 
Pittsburgh metal fans.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shadysideinn .com

---------------------------------------------------

B8THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8, 2001
Props to www.TheBench.orgProps to ww.TheBench.org
Psst. Have I got a secret for you! The one true answer. 
The secret that will keep you happy for the rest of you 
life. The secret that will make your sex life the best it can 
be. What is it? Lean a little closer. Cucumber. Cucumber, 
my friends. I have found the cucumber, people, and theres 
no turning back. Now, go forth. Go seek your fortunes 
out in the wide world, and remember: cucumber.
T.ool 
.S eothMao
RYAN ANDERSON 
(rva @ andrew.cmu.edu)
Ht'v-X v=oe&oT
To Pfci&HTEiJtOR^ovjr TCR.ftoe.tt^
F06. A SfcCOrJ. y
Screech, you got fo help me. I think Kelly's pregnant.Turn off the Radio
presents:
SHAVED by the 
BELLE
Ummm, did I do that?Gosh, I'm so worried about Kelly. She just missed her third period.C'mon Dufus, Quit goofing around. We need to think of a plan!
Dedicated to Adam Thrasher of www.spacemoose.com
BackspaceJinda good faugh.xcretatum rgo Sum 
-I shit therefore I am. 
Cognoto rgo Cxcrctcrtum 
-1 think therefore i shit.
~ I EAT therefore 
Jshit!
ndm@andrew.cmu.edu
Now boys, I know that when a girl gets pregnant, things can get tricky, but clandestine abortion is not the answer. I'm serious about this guys. I trust you two have learned your lesson?
What are you 
looking for? 
The joke is 
down below.
What can you get from CMU 
restroom graffiti?________I dont know about this Zack; I only got a 4 on the AP Bio exam.
yes PrincipalGood, then you'll have an easy time writing about it during the next two weeks of detention I'm giving you. Oh, and by the way Zack. you don't need to worry about the child: it belongs to Slater.
Hurry! The Roofies are wearing off!if?oustispectt6ere iso 
snake on tfje 
toilet, SoTtOt: 
sit Sown! f\EDUCATIONIMPORTANT
Boys! I need to see you in my office, PRONTO!
J <?oou rKng Jnu Brinqboa luck!
these are actual drawings/writings taken from various CMU restrooms' walls.warit@andrew.cmu.edu
jslater @andrew.cmu.edujslater @andrew.cmu.edu
Ive managed to categorize everyone on 
campus into one of two groups.
You hate me because you're a racist.And those whose sexual partners are 
not primarily farm animals.Look, I give you shit 
because you're a drunk.There are those who do not read Fence.
Zac, we're the 
same race.
No wonder theyre 
all so frisky lately.Well then 
because youre 
homophobic.
Those with discerning 
tastes you mean., '~" W This smacks of setup,
' / but I'll bite. What are they?Hey, a man's 
gotta eat.
purrrrrrr

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8,2001
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
After reading Martin Gardner's The Whys of a Philosophical Scrivener, I had learned that 
immortality in the afterlife is a purely positive experience, so it followed that it would be in life as well, modulo the deaths of loved ones. Having tried and failed for years to 
find love, I decided to cut my losses.
As the millennia passed me by,
I witnessed history unfolding 
before my very eyes. Knowledge grew exponentially, bringing 
us amazing processing power and 
limitless resources.
rn UZB cjrjidxew
I began by exploring the ancient 
and therefore presumably wellrefined art of witchcraft. None 
of the modern "wicca" texts, however, seemed to have any spells that could produce 
measurable results.
ft mi H\/ \/ \/ \ /n n n 
\{ \{
But soon, life began to seem 
like a solved problem. In such an enlightened society 
no one committed suicide, but 
the birthrate was abysmally low.
I set to work on creating a 
solution using the latest in 
modern scientific advances: nanotechnology. After the customary ten years of research, 
I produced a self-replicating 
fleet of nanobots that could 
maintain my body in pristine 
condition.
After a while, no one was left but me, sitting in my room, 
patiently awaiting the Sun's 
demise.
The Adventures of HairGirl!!!!!
fcv Art** Pt'
y~oo(L
Its a bird! Its a plane! No... it is ISuperman! 
I hear you are a damsel in distress, HairGirl. 
How may I be of service?
/ Wow, Superman! Youre so 
I hunky. And youre not even a 
\stick figure!
THE MISADVENTURES OF
JiMMY H00TH
THE CHICKEN THAT IS UNCOUTH.
LIKE WE'RE BOTH ON 
DIFFERENT SIDES AND 
I'M SAVING "HEY/ I'M 
WILLING TO MEET VOU 
HALFWAY".
PETRIFIED WOOD
IT'S LIKE I'M THE 
PRINCESS AND YOUR 
MARIO AND RIGHT 
NOW I NEED YOU TO 
BREAKDOWN THIS 
WALL AND ENTER THE 
CASTLE, < COME OVER 
TO MY SIDE.
WILL YOU FIGHT 
MY FIGURATIVE 
BOWSER AND 
OVERCOME GRAVITY 
DEFYING PIXELATED 
BALLS OF FIRE? 
WILL YOU SAVE ME?
TTC SFy\CE BETWEEN US*AS RETOLD BY 009TN SUISSA
Boy this line is taking forever. I've been here 
for 40 minutes and it hasnt even moved for;by [SHKI kr3*t17
SH(HfeO1IU3 P'^eJn
by nivek burhs loser-Wivijbot. he+
do <jo(4 SQj +hat?yMh, i cant really 
<*r<ji/e Hat Ohe
^ with jOU.__^
what about it?WCXO... i just 
realized how
boring nwj life is
just look at this sConiic Strip.
wll -for te/Kat its worth, i know for a 
fact that this one kid kevjn reads
tf is St hip T#  ievWM week v Jl^i+hoMt
...So instead iend up resorting +o0 vulgar humor mixed 
w"h really bad pop tu Itu re references.
no oi\e really readsUiS crap, and that doesnt quite give me much incentive , +o be taiHM... .
Mtp://+hugbof. net/+hvgbot
your weekly joie de vivre
Rejoice! Rejoice! For The Ducks Would you io me this wrong,
and I have resolved our differences For to think to have my maidenhead 
and are now the best of friends. That I have kept so long?
Huzzah! As a gesture of goodwill, I'd rather I was dead and cold,
The Ducks have asked me to join And my body laid in the grave,
them in the singing of a ribald duck Than a flittery, twittery dark-green 
ballad. duck
>The lady sits at her own front door My maidenhead should have
As straight as the willow wand, So the lady she turned into a hare ;
And by there came a lusty duck And ran all over the plain,
Flying from his nearby pond (cryAh, but he became a greyhound dog,
ing): And he ran her down again (barkBide, lady, bide, ing):
For theres nowhere you can hide; So the lady, she turned into a sheep ;
For the lusty duck will be your love A-grazing on yon common,
And he will lay your pride. Ah, but he became a big horny ram,
 Why may you sit there, lady fair, And soon he was upon her (bleating):
All in your robes of red? So the lady, she turned into a duck ;
Why, come tomonow at this same And flew up into the air,
time, Ah, so he became a duck again, I
Til have you in my bed (crying): And they flew pair and pair,
bide, lady, bide... (quacking)
'Away, away, you dark-green duck, Well, now. I need a cold shower.

---------------------------------------------------

BioTHE TARTAN  OCTOBER 8,2001
Over the Hedge
by Michael Fry & T. Lewismy oudat cvhsn
(THESE QUESTIONS ARE PRETTY OBVIOUS.)
1 DONT ASSUME EVERYONE I KNOWS THIS \ STUFF.
HA HA! STOP 
DOING THE "EVIL 
DANCE"/ YOU'RE 
KILLING ME,
WHEN IT COMES BACK PROM THE CLEANERS, MORON.WINTERSURVIVALSECRETS
EMPLOYEES WILL 
BE AFRAID. OUR 
POWER TO ABUSE 
THEM GROWS 
STRONGER BY 
THE MINUTE!
THE JOB MARKET 
IS GETTING WORSE 
EVERY DAY!
"HOW 00 ANIMALS Km WHEN IT'S TI/E TO FUT ON A THICK COAT FOR WINTER?"EXCELLENT!
RvJ &VERNE
YOU'RE SURE THESE ARE SECRETS?SO NO MATTER HOW 
HARD I MAKE YOU 
WORK IT'S STILL 
BETTER THAN BEING 
UNEMPLOYED.
HOW'S THE OL'
JOB (MARKET LATELY? 
IT'S PRETTY BAD, 
ISN'T IT?
WHO'S YOUR 
LEADER? GO 
ON, SAY IT.
HOW PO YOU ANIMALS SURVIVE WHEN THE TEMPERATURE GETS BELOW ZERO?
..TURN UP THE THERMOSTAT.'TRUSTME.
V THOSE NEW BREAD WARMERS ARE NICE FOR KEEPING MY , TWINKIES TOASTY / \. COZY.
Wjh~=i and MY BOXER 7\ /A SHORTS Y ./\ AS WELL
WaL, IM PARTIAL TO THE GE MONOGRAM SIDE-BY-SIDE.
| THE SUB-ZEROS, WHILE EXPENSIVE,I ARE NICE AND A SHINY.
DOGBERT CONSULTSWHAT 
IF WE 
CHANGE 
WHAT 
WE DO?
CALL ME 
AND I'LL 
SELL YOU 
SOME MORE 
VALUABLE 
ADVICE.
WRITE DOWN EVERY 
THING YOU DO, 
PRECEDED BY THE 
PHRASE, "INCREASE 
OUR MARKET SHARE 
BY..."
"..WHERE PO YOU COLLECT THEFOOP YOU'LL NEED TO MAKE IT THROUGH THE WHOLE WINTER?\.
IT'S EASY TO 
CREATE A 
STRATEGY.
THEYWANTEDSECRETS.
WSTERIESREVEALED/;
IT REALLY DEPENDS ON pONT WORRY. % QUALITY WELL BE GETTING OF THE NEW PLENTY OF REST. FALL SEASON.
SPEAK FOR YOURSELF, I OPPOSITEmmneticK JunioirnSIS GOING TO SE GET A CLUE.A SMASH/
COULD YOU TURN OFF 
THE MUSIC? I CAN'T 
CONCENTRATE.
HOW ABOUT IF I TURN 
IT DOWN TO A LEVEL 
WHERE IT STILL DRIVES 
YOU NUTS BUT YOU'RE 
TOO SHY TO 
Jf COMPLAIN A
SECOND TIME?
THANK
YOU."EXACTLY HOW ASLEEP ARE YOU WHEN YOU HIBERNATE?'IT MIGHT 
CREEP UP 
OVER TIME
RJ VERNETELL ALL/
THE TIP OF HIS TONGUE IS STILL THERE IF YOU WANT TO SEE IT.
THAT WAS MORE OF A PAINFUL LEARNING EXPERIENCE* THAN A SIGN.
OH, LIKE THE TIME YOU STUCK YOUR TONGUE TO THAT METAL POLE AND FLEW AT HALFSTAFF FOR I DAYS.
ASOK, YOU'RE COMING 
WITH ME TO AN 
IMPORTANT MEETING 
ACROSS THE BRIDGE.
I THINK HE MEANS, DO WE LOOK FOR "SIGNS.
MY HARD WORK AS 
AN INTERN IS 
PAYING OFF. ALREADY 
I AM INVITED TO AN 
IMPORTANT ^ 
MEETING!
PO YOU ANIMALSHAVE SOME SIXTHSORT OF SENSE?SIXTH LIKE...SENSE TO DO WETELL YOU SEE DEAD WINTER'S WEATHERAPPROACHING MEN"?
HEY, WE 
GET THE 
CARPOOL 
LANE!
IMPORTANT!
<D 200 i United Feature Syndicate. Inc.'tf
I'M ALL FROZE 
UP! NO ONE 
EVER ASKED FOR 
MY OPINION 
BEFORE!
WHY PONT YOU MIGRATE ANO A VOIP WINTER ALTOGETHERV
WHAT DO YOU 
GUYS THINK 
ABOUT MY NEW 
HAIRCUT?
...PERHAPS, LIKE THE GEESE, WE SHOULD HEAD SOUTH FOR THE...
IT'S A GARGANTUAN 
MISTAKE THAT WILL 
RUIN YOUR LIFE, 
FRIGHTEN CHILDREN 
AND BRUISE FRUIT.
NEXTQUESTION,
RJ VERNE UTELL AIL/ Vb
Monty by Jim Meddick
V DlABl"?UMM...DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING A 8\T TAMER-S0UNP1N6?
W I US?ARK
HI. I WAS TO TO COME HERE TO GET ASSIGN?A UORsg...^------VA-/ LET'S SEE..Ar by Fighyter is
HORSEBACK \Mc5T AT AU-...WE BOTH > piping? that \m our heads together SOUNDS LIKE AW SREEP IT'D BE A ( A PLAN LOCO /FUN, ROMWTlC DREAMED UP.-A.SETAWAY... /<
f THIS IS A RIDING CROPA IT'S FOR THE HORSE~ -------VKONI RIGHT. I KNEljOTUAT.jP
WAKE UP, Bctf... WAKE VJPNO.'NO'WTHlT t ME! I SA\D I'D <30.  
TAMEg.
WHEU YOU A^REEP TO 60, Pit) SHE, BY ANY CHAK1CB, GIVJE YOU A SU6AR CUBE?.
hHE \0H m 60SH TVi\S Y OK W N ONE US AMAZINGr HEY, FlRST Y0 1N  LSCO, CHECK THIS j SHOU IP ONLY. J OUT...THIS IS THE / N\ET , VUMU AREt? r OdY. y
MEET SOMEBODY?' WHAT \ U\EET COULD BE MORE IWCRTAHT CARLOS, THE TUAN MEETING Mfc.fc SWRILOQUlST TME TAIKIMG HORSE?'] STABLE BoYHEL-LO-.D'YA \UfA...\MlL8UR?...UN\ KNOW WHESE HEY.'.WHAT THE-.: \MIL0UR IS? /ARE YOU MR.EP, ^-A THE TALKING~MT1 V horse ? r mi
&JT Yoi UKE> THAT'S TOTALLY DIFFERENT-'jtsl agvlb sbeU UtSCVnlU r g Cov Aglu MOVIES, AND/PO A WUSSY ACTIVITY AS HE R\DES f LONG AS IT'S COUNTERHORSES... BALANCED WITH SOMETHING V (MASCULINE ENOUGH. >
WHAT IF \ HE'D PROBABLY A GUY 1 KEEP NT LEAST A WAKTEP \ BAZOOKA OR TO DANCE I MORTAR LAUNCHER,k hgyybS dfk.ccccccccc
CAW YOU BEHEUE IT?.' MONTYS GOIN HORSEBACK RIDIN1 'MCIH H\S FRIEND-' HOVU i VMVJSSW IS THAT? HOO-0oy/'
SEE...I TOLD YOU...'AJHPX COULP BE fAORE RON\NNnC TWAM  horseback R\pe m A PICNIC?
1 SHOULp REALLY SPEAK m\TUE MANAGER *SNlPF*THERe IT IS A<SA\N... IT SEEM?, TO BE STRONGER 0VE>Rv ^SNIFE^SMIFF^...
rr^UST BE THESE POOR HORSES! VOUORUNS THESE STABLES? W'T THEY 'SET REGULAR CLEANl INGS? THIS , VERGES ON N61ECT'
k~T^pu|f|-r/
PIDYOUMEEP TO SEE ME AoUT ^ SOMEIHlhlG?
Bl\ SITTING ON IT.H^/.-WUE^E'S THE 0REAP?

---------------------------------------------------

 A $ev<* t;f Hxovf'swii* *A Servie? f> Serrkv vi fas ; ;
PLUS
Pictures on your 
computer
Send them to jdavin@andrew.cmu.edu and we will 
select the best photos to be printed somewhere 
in The Tartan each week.
Caption is optional and selection of photos 
is at the discretion of The Tartan.
Carnn egg ieMu smeosf
Photos on 
the internet
ISItWPhotos on
am a pat m aFloppy Disk
Photos on 
CDNti lof ueHH
Sale Valid Oct. 8 - Oct. 19,2001 The University Shoppes

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
I October 2001THE TARTANPage Bl2
Superc Super Som ret inomg oC lsmftput
Carnegie Mellon sports are, unfortunately, drastically 
underrated and under-attended. But, dear classmates, 
I shall educate you. We have great sports teams, both 
male and female. If youre looking for something to 
d o one night, or looking to emerge from the cluster, 
check out a game. Youll be gladyou did.
Mens Football (home) Mens Cross Country
-October 13, 2 pm (home)
Washington University - October 12, 3:45 pm
-November 4, 1 pm Duquesne Invitational 
Grove City College
Womens Cross Country 
Mens Soccer (home) (home)
- October 24, 6 pm -October 12, 3:00 pm
Grove City College Duquesne Invitational
Womens Soccer Womens Volleyball
(home) (home)
-October 11, 4 pm -October 22, 6:30 pm
Lake Erie College Waynesburg College
-October 24 8 pm (senior night)
Hiram College
monday. 10/8
Beaver Nelson Live. 8 pm, Club Cafe. 
Celebrated singer/songwriter Beaver Nelson 
has built a roots rock solid career with his 
brazenly poignant songwriting, versatile bittersweet vocals and scintillating live perfor
mances. Beavers third national release 
Undisturbed revels in rollickingly eloquent roots pop and smart, introspective, strippeddown acoustic compositions. For more infor
mation, visit http://www.beavernelson.com.
Soire. 8 pm, Burg Bears. Soire, a cross 
between a party, a performance, and a 1960s 
happening. Based partly on Merce 
Cunninghams concept of event as perfor
mance, new dances and excerpts of old ones 
will be performed as the audience mingles 
with performers, and the point of view shifts. Tickets are $12. Call (412) 363-4321 for 
more information.tuesday. 10/9
Student Body President Office Hours.
3:30 pm to 4:30 pm, the Underground. Talk 
with your Student Body President, Adam 
Harber, about any concerns you have about 
campus and student life. Come by with any 
comments or questions. For more information, 
email sbp@andrew.cmu.edu.
Senate General Body Meeting. Doherty 
Hall 1212, 7 pm. Come see what your Student 
Senate representatives are up to. For more infor
mation, email ss2p@andrew.cmu.edu.
Wednesday. 10/10
Pittsburgh Penguins. 7:30 pm, Mellon 
Arena. This is the third home game of the Pittsburgh Penguins season. If you liked the 
return, then dont miss the sequel. The Pens take on the New York Islanders. Tickets start at $30, 
and go to http://www.pittsburghpenguins.com 
for more information.
System on a Chip. 12 to 1 pm, Roberts 
Engineering Hall. System on a Chip will be a 
lunch presentation, about systems on chips. If you have any interest in micro-circuitry, or are 
involved in it somehow, then come to this event. 
For more information, visit Roberts Engineering 
Hall.thursday, 10/11
The Bruce Nelson Memorial Lecture: 
The Future of IP Networks. 4:30 pm, DH 2315. This talk is about the future of networks 
built using the Internet Protocol, or IP, and par
ticularly about the role that routers will play 
in this future. To get a better appreciation of 
routers and routing, the talk traces the development of routers from their beginnings in the enterprise, to fundamental advances in their 
architecture made in the late 1990s, and then 
on to how the network is likely to evolve in the 
future. The speaker is Dr. Pradeep Sindhu who left the Computer Science Lab at Xerox PARC 
to found Juniper Networks. For more informa
tion, call x8-8525.
riday, 10/12
The Most Happy Fella. 8 pm, Kresge 
Theatre, CFA building. This production by the 
music department lasts for four nights. Its 
about sex, violence, comedy, and alcohol. 
Tickets are $12. Stop in CFA for more informa
tion.
I know you
The Most Happy Fella. 8 pm, Kresge 
Theatre, CFA building, $12. This production 
by the music department last for four nights. 
Its about sex, violence, comedy, and alcohol. 
Stop in CFA for more information.
H&SS Fall Festival. 4:30 to 6:30 pm, 
Baker Hall Lounge. Join your H&SS class
mates and professors in celebrating Homecoming. Alumni are welcome as well! 
For more information, email 
hssmail@andrew.cmu.edu.
-i IVE Gi;, >' v . - _OrIVE GVEGi POEj
BP'   - \ i Wm' I
GET THE GIANT BUTTERFLY NET FOR 
CRAZY WIFE OF YOURS
ifill
itty: lovers for' 'wfPt! 11 fyfM/
ALL
a I M /
My computer 
sometimes 
smells li
sf u
cat/
Saturday, 10/13
The Most Happy Fella. 8 pm, Kresge Theatre, CFA building. This production by the music department lasts for four nights.Its about sex, violence, comedy, and alcohol. 
Tickets are $12. Stop in CFA for more infor
mation.Sunday. 10/14
The Most Happy Fella. 2:30 pm, 
Kresge Theatre, College of Fine Arts. This production by the music department lasts for 
four nights. Its about sex, violence, comedy, 
and alcohol. Stop in CFA for more informa
tion.
Gallery Walk-Through with Lance 
Esplund. 7:15 pm, Frick Art and Historical 
Society. Mr. Esplund will host this gallery 
lecture, which begins with a brief slide introduction to the astonishing breadth of Elie 
Nadelmans influences. Through this, he will 
demonstrate Nedelmans humor, eroticism, 
and classicism. Tickets are $15 for members, 
and $20 for non-members. Call (412) 371- 
0600. Reservations are required.
Pittsburgh Concert Society Majors 
Recitals. Time TBA. Duquesne University. 
Clinton Velandia Mantilla will perform on 
piano. Tickets are free for students. Call 
(412) 279-2970 for more information.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Timothy K. Adams, Jr. is featured in this con
cert . The PSO will play Jean Sibeliuss 
Symphony No. 5 in E-flat Major, James liverios The Messenger a World Premiere, and 
Edvard Griegs Suite from Peer Gynt. For 
tickets and information cal 412-392-4900.
Do you have an event you 
would like to publicize in 
The Tartan Calendar? Its 
free!
Send information to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
