Volume 80, Number 19 I Carnegie-Mellon University
SAE, Tri-Delts, and PhiKap/Chi O win Greek Sing
President Sibley resigns, Sherman takes over
by Doug Kirsop
At the February 19 Student Senate 
meeting, Student Body president Scott 
Sibley resigned.
After a brief audience participation 
period, Senate had voted to go into 
executive session for the conviction trial. 
This would have meant that only Sibley 
and Senate members could have remained 
in the room during the course of the trial.
As Chairman Ralph Sherman was 
explaining the procedure to the Senate, 
Sibley handed him his letter of resignation. 
(Text of the letter appears on page 5).
The trial was necessary because on 
February 14, Pat Crump turned in a 
petition to Sherman with 512 names 
calling for Sibleys impeachment. Under 
Senates by laws, 500 names on such a 
petition automatically impeach the 
president.
I did not necessarily approve of
everything I did, but I felt I had to do it, 
said Crump at the February 19 meeting 
after Sibley had resigned. Connie Smith 
(CIT) also expressed the feeling that, It 
grew to be a monster that none of us 
knew how to handle.
Another section of the bylaws state 
that when the president leaves or is re
moved from office, the Chairman of 
Senate assumes the presidency for the 
remainder of the term. Sherman told 
the Senate that he does not plan to run 
for president, but would instead like to 
return to Senate for another term as 
Chairperson.
Michael Inners (MIS) and Nina Houska 
(CIT) were then nominated in the election 
for a new Senate chairperson: Inners
was elected, and will serve, with Houska 
remaining as the Vice-chair, until the 
new Senate elects officers in two weeks 
After these elections, Senate returned to
Fire doors cause problems
by Jim Balsom
At least once over the past few weeks the 
electronic fire doors in Morewood Gardens 
have failed to release when the fire bell was 
sounded. The incident reported to the 
TARTAN was on February 11 when an 
alarm was sounded at 10:49 PM. The 
report on file with CMU Police states that 
 the punch register tape recorded one 
punch indicating a malfunction. The local 
alarm rang only once and the electronic 
doors did not open. According to Robert 
Anderegg, Security/Safety Coordinator, 
and Frank Montag, Supervisor of Morewood Maintenance, the fire doors should 
have released immediately and that an investiagation would be conducted to deter
mine the cause of the malfunction.
Montag stated that the fiVst he heard of the 
problem was on February 15 when he was 
contacted by the TARTAN. He immediate
ly arranged a manual test of the system by 
cutting the power to the fire doors. The 
four main doors facing into the circle in 
front of Morewood all opened as expected. 
Montag said if he had known of the pro
blem earlier he could have arranged for a 
true test of the system which would mean 
pulling an alarm and seeing if the doors 
opened as they were supposed to.
Anderegg stated that at the end of each
month the fire alarm system in Morewood 
is tested. The last such test prior to the 
February 11 malfunction was conducted 
on January 25. Anderegg was under the 
impression the fire doors were checked, 
as part of the system test. He reported that 
Physical Plant electricians keep a log of 
their findings and turn them in to the 
electrician foremans office. When asked to 
see those logs, Anderegg replied that he 
could not give the TARTAN the necessary 
permission to see the documents.
He reported that a full test of the system 
had not been conducted since the malfunc
tion on February 11 because the standard 
monthly test was scheduled for February 
29. He added that the time involved in 
notifying residents and the city fire depart
ment to arrange a test would be consider
able and that the next scheduled test was 
only a week and a half off. When pressed 
by the TARTAN about this potential 
safety hazard, Anderegg agreed to schedule 
a test for two days later, on February 22 -- 
a full ten days after the initial malfunction.
Both the special test and the regular sched
uled test proved that the doors do open 
correctly now, even though there is still 
some unknown problem with the systen 
which needs investigation.
new business, and another discussion 
regarding the reimbursement to Sibley for 
his trip to Washington D.C. Because he 
was invited as the president of the student 
body of CMU, and went after Sherman 
received the impeachment petitions, Senate 
originally felt they should not pay for 
the trip.
At this meeting, it was decided that be
cause he did go, and did do a good job 
while he was there, that he should be
reimbursed. Then, at the February 25 
meeting, Senate decided that it would be 
inappropriate for them to pay for the 
trip, since Sibley technically went on his 
own and not as the president. Instead, 
they sent him a thank-you note.
Some type of comprimise payment 
scheme is expected to come up at 
tonights meeting, which is at 6:30 PM 
in the Wherrett Room.
Expensive trash!
by Brian Byrnes
On February 21, some CMU students 
found a $30,000 piece of computer hard
ware in the dumpster by the Science Hall 
loading dock.
The students took the component to 
their room to examine it closer. The hard
ware was neatly packed in a cardboard 
frame surrounded by styrofoam shipping 
peanuts. Taped on the front panel were 
diagrams and the words PDP-11 , which 
is a computer that the computer science 
department uses. After seeing this, the stu
dents called Campus Police, informing 
them of finding the equipment.
Campus Police investigated the situa
tion and discovered that the Computer 
Science department owned the equipment. 
They came and confiscated the component 
and later returned it to Computer Science.
Dr. Howard Wactner was involved in a 
project using the equipment, and he ex
plained some of the details. The compo
nent is an SPS-41, and it was used in a 
speech pattern recognization and proces
sing project, which started in 1973. The 
SPS-41 processed signals for better data 
storage in a PDP-11.
When the project ended in 1975, the de
partment had no immediate use for the 
SPS-41, so it was packed up and placed in 
the colleges storage area in Science Hall. 
A few weeks ago, the department received 
approval to renovate that area and move 
into it. Items stored there had to be tem
porarily moved or thrown out. Apparently, 
the SPS-41 was placed in another depart
ments area, and they, not knowing what 
the box was used for, mistakenly threw the 
component into the trash.
Wactner doesnt believe that there was
The SPS-41 that was found in the dumpster be
hind Science Hall. Its value was estimated to be 
about $30,000.
any larceny involved or any malice intend
ed by the incident. He explained that there 
was much confusion to get the area clear 
for the construction.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
From us to you
School publications have patterned themselves after the content, 
style and design of the professional press; they have appeared under
ground and overground. As have all publications, school newspapers 
have experienced paper shortages during wars and inflated printing 
costs during peacetime. They have received criticism or near derfuse 
on the one hand and revelled in being extremely popular on the other. 
They have experienced growing pains. Through trial and error, they 
have set trends by entering competition and continuing to strive for 
excellence. 
The Columbia Scholastic Press Association
The TARTAN, like college newspapers nationwide, has been exper
iencing growing pains. It hurts a little but we find consolation in the 
belief that growth is wonderful and should be welcomed.
Over the past few months the TARTAN has become more aggresive 
in reporting and investigating the issues, and we have seen results: the 
TARTAN was instrumental in the reopening of the Deli after the 
Morewood shutdown by confronting the administration with the stu
dents view of their actions. We believe that we are serving as a watch
dog and an advocate for the students of this university.
The new Editorial Board will pick up where the old board left off. 
We will continue our role as watchdog, seeking out the truth be
hind administrative, academic and student government decisions. We 
will work to insure that decisions and made in the best interests of the 
students.
And we will do whatever we can to create and maintain those 
essential elements of a university environment: full freedom of 
thought and expression, respect for the rights of each individual, and a 
constant desire to guarantee that all the facts and truths of an issue 
(from tuition increases to rational justifications for economic theor
ies) are provided.
In order to do so we must enjoy the rights of free press: publica
tion without administrative sanctions imposed before or after publica
tion which suppress free speech. In return we will guarantee responsi
ble and accurate reporting in all areas of the newspaper.
Our editorial column will be the instrument of measurement that 
gauges the students opinion of the educational climate that surrounds 
him or her. It will reflect the conscience of the paper; it will reveal the 
opinions of the editors on current problems and issues of importance.
We also guarrantee the right of rebuttal to all members of the 
campus community on our op-ed page in letters to the editor, Views 
and Opinion. In this way we can present the campus with balanced 
opinions on all the issues.
In summary, the TARTAN as an educational project must maintain 
high standards. It should serve the academic community by stimulat
ing student growth in the responsibilities of citizenship, encourage 
intelligent leadership, and reflect student opinion. We invite all CMU 
students to help us in this vein, to join our staff (check for staff meet
ing announcements throughout the paper) and to gain personal 
satisfaction by helping to make CMU a better place to be.
And in this corner...
When Senate decided not to pass a resolution stating that CMU was 
against the draft, there were screams from all ends of campus that 
Student Senate does not represent the students. During the Food 
Service crisis students wondered why their Student Government 
president did not take the initiative to confront the administration. 
Yet only a small fraction of the student body took the initiative to 
vote in the Student Government elections.
Rather than delve into the issue of student apathy a year ago, the 
TARTAN will give you the benefit of the doubt and take the blame 
for the lack of turnout upon ourselves. Perhaps we did not present 
the candidates and the issues well enough for students to make ration
al voting decisions. 1980 is upon us and next week brings another 
Student Government election.
Tonight, the TARTAN is sponsoring a forum where each candi
date for the Presidency will present their platforms and goals if 
elected. There will also be a question and answer period where the 
candidates will answer your questions about their position on the 
issues. In addition to the forum, the TARTAN will be publishing 
a special election supplement which will feature interviews with each 
presidential candidate and statements from the Senate candidates.
So this year we will not take the blame upon ourselves for leaving 
you uninformed. Our pre-election coverage has the potential to give 
every CMU student the knowledge to make intelligent choices at the 
polls next week. But potential, as we all know, is not always realized. 
And our coverage wont help you in your choice unless you use it.
So now the responsibility is yours. You must attend tonights 
forum (9 PM tonight in the Wherrett Room) and you must find out 
everything you can about your candidates and finally you must vote. 
Because if you dont vote you dont have the right to complain that 
no one is speaking for you.
Be there tonight, be heard, and hear the people who want to rep
resent you,....
Senate & Soviets
Editor:
Until recently I viewed the 
Student Senate and its officers 
as responsible young adults with a 
good notion of what their duties 
to the students of CarnegieMellon are. However, this affair 
involving our Presidents ability, 
and the ability of our Student 
Senate to advise and assist the 
President, has left my assumption 
shattered.
The President in no way com
mitted an impeachable action and 
those who contend that he did are 
either ignorant of the facts or 
belligerent towards the executive 
officer, for reasons unknown. I
wholeheartedly support the Presi
dent and his actions to date.
The duty of the President is to 
act as he sees fit, not as a minority 
of the students or the Treasurer 
sees fit. The Treasurer is playing 
politics extremely well, while the 
President does a good job as pres
ident.
Again the ugly spectre of the 
draft registration has raised its 
head. Let those who are opposed 
to the registration oppose it. The 
draft registration is a necessary 
step if America is to retain its 
world leadership, and its own se
curity.
Alaska and New York are not 
about to be invaded. However, 
Furooe, Pakistan, the Middle East,
and Africa are immediately in 
front of the Soviet line of sub
version and military confronta
tion. The Soviet Union and its 
Allies are committed to world 
domination. The Soviets apparent
ly seek to sever Americas vital 
life line to Middle Eastern oil, and 
African minerals, both of which 
are vital to the security of the 
United States and its Allies.
What if the Soviet Union was 
to launch a conventional war 
against the United States and its 
Allies?. Allied forces vastly out
numbered and unable to recieve 
reinforcements would lose. Amer
ica has two survival options: 
One is to immediately use battle 
field or strategic nuclear weapons,
TARTAN
 Volume 80 
Number 19 
March 4,1980
Editor-in-Chief: Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Smita Pai 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Associate Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Production Manager . Ed Zayas 
News Editor: Jim Balsom Sports Editor: Wesley Seeley
Features Editor: Renee Rosenfeld Dossier Editor: Lynn Epstein
Entertainment Editor: Richard Gorelick Photography Editor: Robert Zusman
Contributing Editors: Michael Brzustowicz, Art Director. Tom Hart
Jean Pellegrini
News: Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Dufee, Ed Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre 
Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Pete Levin, Joshua Meduin, Elliot Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry,
Dave Kirby,Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Rabmeau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Smits, Daren Stevens.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Pat Krump, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser. 
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak. Assistant Manager, Michael Brzustowicz, Beth Kurtz.
Photography: Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd.
Art: Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis, Dave Robinson.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Pointed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206

---------------------------------------------------

views
We, Thee, Theirs, and Ours: who pays the taxes?
The following View from the 
Top" wos authored by Allan H. 
Meltzer, Maurice Falk Professor of 
Economics and Social Science.
The journalists call you and 
your peers, the me generation. 
Since my children are part of your 
generation, I suppose I qualify as 
a bona fide member of the thee 
or we generation. I suppose, 
too, that the me generation means 
that you are more selfish, that we 
are more selfless.
Its wonderful to have this feel
ing of moral superiority. The 
members of my generation can re
assure each other by talking about 
the decline in the moral fiber of 
the young, a common pastime for 
the old in every era, and by ques
tioning the new selfishness.
My generation, the selfless gen
eration, was not single minded 
about its selflessness. We entered
into contracts which you are 
going to pay. For example, we 
provided for social security pay
ments to ourselves and our par
ents that you are apt to find 
burdensome. People currently 
about 45 or older will be net 
beneficiaries of social security 
under present tax and benefit 
schedules. The value of what they 
pay will be less than the value 
they receive. Younger people will 
pay more during their lifetime 
than the value of the benefits they 
receive when they retire. The rest 
goes to us.
Its not all the fault of the thee 
generation. We chose to have larg
er families, on average, than you 
choose to have. When we retire, 
we will leave behind a larger work
forceyouto pay taxes and pro
vide our social security benefits. 
We paid to raise you; soon, its
your turn to pay for us.
The social security tax increase 
is not the only tax increase you 
face. When my generation entered 
the labor force, in the late forties, 
government at all levelsstate, 
local and federaltook about 23% 
of income in taxes. Now govern
ment spends about 34% of total 
income. You notice the difference 
when you get your paychecks. At 
current levels of income, the 
increase in average size of 
government in thirty years costs 
$1000 per capita. Not everyone 
works, so the cost per employed 
person is higher. In 1949, govern
ment spending (or tax receipts) 
was less than $2000 per employed 
person. Government spending in 
dollars of constant purchasing 
power is now more than $4300 
per employed person.
You may think that because
the Federal government budget 
usually has a deficit, taxes are less 
than government spending. Thats 
an illusion. The government can 
change the timing of tax pay
ments and can shift some of the 
burden from the one generation 
to another, but the real cost can
not be avoided.
Some of the bills are coming 
due. Congress is about ready to 
pass one of the largest tax in
creases in hstory. In 1980 and 
1981, taxes are scheduled to in
crease:
1) $15 billion for social se
curity;
2) $20.6 billion for so-called 
windfall profits taxes;
3) $11 to $13 billion because 
inflation shifts everyone into 
higher tax brackets;
4) by amounts difficult to cal
culate, for sales taxes, property
taxes, profits taxes and other 
taxes that increase automatical
ly with inflation.
These costs are only a small 
part of the burden passed on to 
the future. High taxes discourage 
effort and reduce the growth of 
investment. Slow investment is 
one reason, a main reason I bel
ieve, that productivity has been 
rising slowly for the past five 
years or more. If slow productivi
ty growth and low investment 
continue, all of our incomes will 
rise slowly in the future. Since the 
growth of government spending 
has not slowed, the share of 
income taken in taxes will contin
ue to rise.
Work, pay taxes and remember 
the moral of the we generation. 
Its better to be selfless than 
selfish, especially if someone else 
bears the cost.
and the other is to maintain a con
ventional force capable of with
standing and thus deferring Soviet 
attack. As any rational person 
would, I must immediately select 
the second option. Therefore 
America needs a force capable of 
deferring a Soviet attack. The 
only way America can maintain a 
credible attack force is to start the 
Draft registration, so that in the 
event of an emergency America 
could mobolize. Allow me to also 
state that the Soviet Union main
tains a draft, not just a registra
tion, of every man and woman in 
the nation.
Sincerely, 
Michael James
Compute This!
Editor:
I am sitting in the computer 
room staring at a type-written 
statement on my terminal screen: 
TOPS-20 System not running. 
I am one of the lucky ones, 
however  there are up to twelve 
people waiting for terminals still.
This is my first year of com
puting, and I intend on it being 
my last. With the efficiency of the 
entire computer system, I find it 
far too exasperating to compete 
with others for my paid computer 
time. I feel that if the computer 
science courses here at CMU are 
going to demand programs which 
require 13 hours of terminal 
work, they should supplement 
students with more terminals and 
a larger DECsystem to handle 
the terminals. Forcing a decrease 
of terminal usage to those who do 
take advantage of user time on the 
terminals is a beginning; however, 
the demand of more terminals 
with acceptable efficiency will 
remain present. As it is now, it 
has taken me fifteen minutes 
to compile my 200 line program 
because of the lack of efficiency 
and discontinuity of the system.
Finally, as another suggestion 
to keep this letter from being only 
an outlet of my frustration: if the 
computer system at CMU cannot 
handle the load of full terminal 
capacity, then 1 feel the Computer 
Science Department should think 
more seriously on limiting the en
rollment number of students in
their courses so as to equivocate 
them with the computer system 
capacity.
Marcy Trent 
Class of 1983
Another Reality
Editor:
I would like to respond to 
Dave Haynies letter of February
19. I feel there are some points 
in his letter which are of rather 
dubious quality. Mr. Haynie, as 
he proudly states, certainly is a 
dreamer  but perhaps it would 
be good if some degree of reality 
could be injected into his argu
ment, besides the statement that 
people are scared in war.
The first bit of reality Id like 
to introduce is that he has thor
oughly ignored the fact that, 
whether or not he wants to fight, 
there will still be plenty of Rus
sian soldiers carrying and using 
machine guns against innocent 
people. There are 1.8 million 
people in the active soviet army. 
According to a recent Washington 
Post article, Soviets are automat
ically drafted after turning 18, 
and go straight to a combat unit 
to serve out his 2 or sometimes 
3-year hitch  after he goes 
through a month of refresher 
training in combat skills  Vhich 
he had learned in premilitary 
training in high school (italics 
are mine). All Soviet young
sters  male and female  at age 
16 begin a two year, 140-hour 
premilitary introduction to mili
tary life, small arms use. . . out
standing trainees may get extra 
training. Soviets generally do not 
complain about military service, 
or question what they do or who 
they kill. The system is not favor
able to such questioning. And the 
Soviets are willing to go fight, as 
theyve shown in Afghanistan, An
gola, Ethiopia, South Yeman. . . 
not to mention the bloody sup
pressions of uprisings in Eastern 
Europe.
Mr. Haynies favorite point 
seems to be that war is barbaric; 
he implies that he, at least, is too 
civilized to engage in something so 
nasty. He is setting himself up as 
being so far advanced in his think
ing that war, as a barbarian con
cept, is beneath him. Well, la-dida. All the moral superiority he 
can muster up wont change the 
fact that the Soviets will engage in 
war. Haynie reminds me of noth
ing so much as a Sunday school 
teacher sweetly telling a classroom 
they should all love one another 
and stop fighting on the floor. It 
wont change a thing. You have to 
deal with reality. If Mr. Haynie 
believes that only barbarians be
lieve in the necessity of going to 
war at times, that morally and in
tellectually superior people (among whom he included himself) 
do not, may I suggest he look at Lincolns, Thomas Jeffersons, 
Ben Franklins, C.S. Lewis, and 
Winston Churchills views on war, 
for a start. And if you happen to 
believe that the writers of the 
Bible had any idea of what they 
were doing  God seems to have 
believed that giving battle is nec
essary and even good for some 
things.
And this leads up to a problem 
of judgement that Mr. Haynie 
seems to have. He implies , when 
making derogatory comments
about the ideals in war, (end of 
paragraph 2) that the second 
world war was not worth fighting, 
that it was a put-up job in which 
nothing worthwhile was done. 
Perhaps his tone in the rest of the 
paragraph misled me  I cannot 
believe any sane human being 
would say we should not have 
fought in World War II. That was 
not fought just to preserve the 
American way of life. (Why is he 
so disparaging when he talks 
about the sacred fight? Does he 
believe there can be no such 
thing? Does he believe there is 
nothing worth fighting for?) It 
was fought against something evil; 
against the enslavement and mur
der  not just in war, but simple 
mass murder  of millions of 
people. The initial efforts of nonNazi countries to act peaceful 
and harmless, doing nothing in the 
hope that they, personally, 
wouldnt be hurt, did nothing to 
stop the Nazis  it helped them 
get a head start. What Cooper, of 
the British Cabinet, said in 1934, 
still has validity in todays situa
tion: It was not for Serbia or
Belguim that we fought in 1914. .
. . but. . . in order that one great 
power should not be allowed in 
disregard of . . . the laws of na
tions and against all morality, to 
dominate by brutal force the con
tinent of Europe.
Then Mr. Haynie says neither 
side is right or wrong, neither side 
is evil or good. O.K. Maybe you 
cant pass judgement on whether 
or not the communists ideas that 
they are fighting to spread or de
fend are wrong. But we certainly 
can pass judgement about their 
actions being wrong.
Do you think its not bad of 
them to invade Afghanistan and 
kill people there? What about 
their use in Afghanistan (reported 
as proven by the AP) of poison 
gas  outlawed with international 
consent years ago? Have you read 
any books by Solzhenitsym  
especially the third volume of 
Gulag  or any others by escapees 
from the system? And would you 
like to live under their system? 
The Soviets are forcing many 
people to do so. A fairly mild 
example of what can happen unoer their system, printed in the 
Saturday Evening Post a few years 
ago, may help answer that ques
tion: a student, Andrei Amalrik, 
at Moscow State University was 
expelled for the views expressed 
in a thesis paper, and later sen
tenced to three years in a prison 
camp on related charges.
A few other things that Mr. 
Haynie ignores  one is called an 
obligation to your fellow men  
otherwise known as being your 
brothers keeper. You cant stand 
by forever and watch someone get 
beat up. At some point you have 
to step in, even if it means getting 
bruised a bit yourself. And such 
a step seems more logical if you 
figure youre in danger of being 
beat up next, anyway.
Another is  there is no such 
thing as a free ride. If you cant 
alter what other people are going 
to do, by talk or wishful think
ing  for example, make war 
whenever they want  you have 
to act, and deal with it yourself.
You cant expect someone else to 
take care of the nasty stuff. And 
you cant deal with war by saying, 
*but this is below us, we should 
love one another; and you cant 
ignore it and hope it goes away.
Kimberly Kunkle 
Box B-l 15 Mudge
Shooting off
Editor:
War is like masturbation. The 
only way to get satisfaction is if 
you pull the trigger. Now Im not 
saying Im against war-Im as pa
triotic as the next guy and the guy 
next to him--but Im just afraid 
that, like masturbation, I might 
get to like war and then, things 
could get out of hand. My trigger 
could get out of hand, I mean.
Ive been reading all the letters 
in the TARTAN, some pro and 
some con and some not worth 
figuring out whether theyre pro 
or con or just written by crazed, 
drugged fraternity men. Well, I 
decided to write this letter be
cause all the other letters seemed 
to make some sense in some ways 
and no sense in some ways and 
nonsense in most ways, so I 
thought it was about time I got in 
my two sense-I mean, cents.
So~Heres my proposal. I think 
that we all should support Pres
ident Carter in his call for us to 
register because it will show our 
self-control. We should try our 
hardest to serve our country if 
called--but well prove that we 
wont really get hooked. Well 
show that we can handle war 
better than we handle mastur
bation. We wont lose sight of the 
reasons we are at war. If were hit 
by lots of bullets--and we do lose 
our sight (or limbs, or lungs, or 
other bodily parts) well just be 
patriotic and blame it on our un
controllable masturbation. Thats 
why we went blind. Lost our legs. 
Lost our will to go on.
So, thats where Im coming 
from, Madame Editor. I hope you 
print my letter. It is patriotic. 
And patriotism is something were 
missing nowadays.
Bang. Bang. Aaaaah.
The Sharp Shooter

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-TAR TAN-March 4, 1980
HEY MONA
Why the 
Gioconda smile???
3529 FORBES SPECTACLES 
AVENUE
OAKLAND, PA. ^
621-4949
Students pay 'energy surcharge' as costs rise
(CPS)  Shaken by forecasts that energy 
costs were going to keep rising, adminis
trators at George Washington University in 
Washington D.C. sat down last August to 
calculate just what it was going to cost 
them to keep their campus warm this win
ter. They carefully projected an average 
fuel price of $.88 per gallon, which would 
have saddled the university with a total 
fuel bill of $2.7 million.
Alas, GWU has been forced to pay 
between $1.15 and$1.20 per gallon, and 
will shell out a total of $3.6 million before 
the academic year expires. Looking for 
some way to make up the unanticipated 
energy deficit, GWU administrators tapped 
a new source for more fuel funds: students.
GWU students arent the only ones. 
Colleges all over have had an awful time 
keeping up with escalating energy costs, 
and even figuring out what those costs will 
be six months from now.
So in increasing numbers administrators 
are starting to assess students directly for 
the cost of energy. At some schools, those 
assesments are being included in the 1980- 
81 academic year tuition rates. In other 
places, dorm fees are being hiked to pay 
for the increased cost of fuel, although 
dorm residents may end up subsidizing 
off-campus students use of classroom 
energy. And at least two schools, students 
are being asked to pay an extra energy 
surcharge.
Somehow we must pay for the oil, 
laments GWU President Uoyd Elliott. Stu
dents will therefore find an extra $25-$50 
energy charge tacked onto their tuition 
bills next fall. GWU, once burned by its in
accurate August projections of energy 
costs, doesnt know exactly how much the 
charge will be yet.
When you project how much (energy) 
is going to be, Elliott says, you run into 
all the machinations of OPEC pricing
politics.
Students at the University of Con
necticut have already started paying a $20 
energy surcharge. UConn planning adminis
trator Mary Fischer figures the surcharge 
should raise about $176,000 for fuel 
costs. We expect to break even, she says. 
Yet this has been an unusually mild winter 
along the eastern seaboard. UConn antici
pates raising dorm fees by $300 for next 
winters return to normality.
Some administrators, though, seem to 
favor the publicity value of phrases like 
energy surcharge to thesimple expedient 
of anonymously including energy costs in 
the round of tuition hikes expected next 
fall.
We just wanted the people to know 
what (the increase) is for, explains GWU 
Public Information Officer Fran Marsh. 
We want to be able to pay for the oil 
were using.
Groaning under a 44 percent energy 
cost increase over the last year, USC offi
cials are predicting a 14 percent tuition 
increase for next fall.
Paula Thomas, USCs director of admin
istrative services, expects energy usage
changes will save $500,000, but the phy
sical plant feels that it is already conserving 
all the energy it can.
Class calenders have been altered to 
extend intersession during the cold months. 
Work weeks have been shortened. Some 
administrations offer special incentives to 
departments that conserve. At Gustavus 
Adolphus College in Minnesota, for exam
ple, dorm refrigerators have been banned. 
The effort promises to save the school 
$50,000 in electricity cost.
Weve had a great deal of coopera
tion on campus from students and facul
ty conserving energy, says University of 
Florida Executive Vice President John 
Nattress. Weve also used less energy 
because the weather this winter has been 
great.
But the weather hasnt been great 
enough to keep UF from being $500,000 
over its energy budget.
All Florida state schools have had to 
acc9modate a 44 percent natural gas in
crease and even more expensive temporary 
energy supplies during the Crystal River 
Nuclear Plants sporadic shutdowns.
Consequently, Florida has been amongUFS makes changes
Director John Eichmuller is continuing 
to make changes in the University Food 
Service operation. Most of the changes are 
based on results of several weeks of Food 
Service surveys.
The first of the changes is an alteration 
in the menu cycle. As in the past, there will 
still be three cycles, but they are now nine, 
rather than seven days in length. Eichmul
ler explained that this is in response to the 
frequent complaint of Food Service serving 
the same items on the same day of each 
week.
The number of items offered at lunch
and dinner has also been reduced. Four en
trees will be available at lunch and dinner 
in the Kiltie Cafe, as opposed to the greater 
variety previously offered. This will allow 
kitchen personnel to spend more time pre
paring each dish. Eichmuller hopes that 
this will in turn improve the quality of the 
prepared food.
Also, as of last Tuesday, the Kiltie Cafe 
is opening at 11 AM for lunch. The half 
hour earlier opening time is intended to 
allow students who have classes over the 
usual lunch period a time to eat their 
lunch.
the most active conservers. UF adminis
trators are considering a proposal to adopt 
a four-day work week during summer 
term. Nattress expects the university will 
cut its daily class hours soon.
School hours will be shifted to 7:30 
AM to 4:30 PM, he says. This way we 
can turn off the air conditioning at 3:30 
and save a couple of hours of air condition
ing every afternoon.
In most cases, then, the burden of pay
ment is being shifted to the student. As 
Gustavus Adolphus President Edward Lindall graphically put it to the Student 
Senate, The gun is to your heads. Either 
*the students act or the administration will.
Prof. Honored
Richard Young, Chairman of the 
English Department, has been granted 
an honorary degree from St. Edwards 
University in Austin, Texas. The Doctor 
of Humane Letters, honoris causa was 
presented at an Academic Convoca
tion last Friday, February 29. .This 
is a very unusual event and represents a 
great honor, especially for someone at 
mid-career, stated H&SS Dean Pat 
Crecine. At TARTAN press time, Dr. 
Young was in Texas to recieve the 
award and was unavailable for com 
ment.Please note:
Due to complications with scheduling 
Spring Carnival 81, given the dates of Passover and Easter, it has been proposed that 
next years spring semester be moved back 
one week. This would make enrollment 
day on January 12, with commencement 
on May 18 instead of May 11 as originally 
planned. Both the Faculty Senate and Stu
dent Senate have given their approval to 
this change.
H&SS SAC
PIZZA 
and 
BEVERAGES
Friday, March 7 
4:30 p.m. 
H&SS LOUNGE 
254C BH
ALL H&SS STUDENTS, 
FACULTY, 
AND STAFF INVITED.

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1980TARTAN-Page 5
SDC elects new board
The Students Dorm Council elected 
new officers on February 20. The new 
Resident is Jeff Pitchford, a junior archi
tecture major. The new Vice-President of 
the Hill dorms is Alexis Arlett, a junior in 
the Modern Languages program. Nora Lederle, a sophomore math major was elected 
Vice-President of the Morewood area 
dorms. Elected Treasurer and Secretary 
were Bret Fennell, a junior in AMS, and 
Stacey Matz, a sophomore math major, 
respectively.
The new officers ran their first meeting 
on February 27 at which time Oscar 
Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services and 
Gerald Dalton, Director of Housing, 
answered questions about housing rates, 
room classification, maintenance costs and 
capital projects.
The SDC Auxiliary Services Committee
reported that Housing had ordered furni
ture for lounges in Boss, McGill, A>D and E 
Towers in Morewood. This is the first part 
of a joint project between Housing and 
SDC to upgrade all dorm lounges on cam
pus. Beginning shortly, SDC will look into 
the room classification system with the 
hope of correcting any deficiendies which 
may exist.
As part of President Pitchfords goal of 
making SDC more prestigious, the Rules, 
Policy and Planning committee will meet 
tomorrow at 8 PM in the SDC office 
(room 55., Skibo) to discuss how to make 
SDC better known and more effective. 
The meeting is open to amy interested 
dorm resident.
The next general meeting of SDC is 
tomorrow at 7 PM in the Wherrett room.Conyers visits CMU
L. Vernon Valentine
Under the lecture heading of Criminal 
Justice, Congressman John Conyers 
(D-MI.) spoke before a small Skibo Ball
room audience on Tuesday, February
26 at 8:00 PM.
Although he spoke on a wide range of 
national and international political issues, 
Conyers main lecture theme concerned 
deficiencies in the American criminal 
justice system. He described the system 
as the one area we could be doing the 
most in and spending the least of the 
taxpayers money.
Conyers asserted that there exists a 
definite link between problems within 
the economy and problems within the 
judicial system. He maintained that 
most criminals are in jail because of 
petty, economic-based crimes; are 
unemployed at the time of the 
crimes commission;and are economically 
in the lower strata of our economy.
Conyers demanded of his audience, 
How can you prepare to move ex
criminals back into society if there are no 
jobs for some ten or eleven million people 
who are not criminals?
Criticizing the present prison system, 
Conyers said that our prisons frequently 
send people back into society far more 
unprepared to become constructive cit
izens than they were when they first 
entered prison. Warning the audience of 
myths about the internal conduct of 
prisons, he stated that we have a num
ber of prisons that are run by the most
This is the text of Student Government 
President Scott Sibleys letter of resigna
tion.
19 February 1980
Mr. Chairman:
During my term as President of Student 
Government, I have fulfilled -those duties 
assigned to me by the constitution to the 
best of my ability. I have served actively 
as the official representative of the 
student body. At times, I have taken un
popular positions, but I feel that I have 
worked for the best interests of the 
student body and the student government.
On 15 February, I attended a con
ference which I had been invited to at the 
White House. This was done with full 
knowledge that I had been impeached 
and so, removed of all power and authority 
as Student Government President. I went 
as the invited delegate and the only student 
from Carnegje-Mellon University with the 
clearance to attend this conference. 1
deemed it of utmost importance that this 
University have someone in attendance at 
this conference and expressed to both the 
Senate Chairman and Dean Swank my 
willingness to not attend when shown that 
a replacement could be sent. I also stated 
my willingness to travel at my own 
expense. This position still holds.
 have worked during this past year to 
build up the public opinion of the student 
government and have dedicated my efforts 
where I have perceived them necessary, 
as is my constitutional obligation.
p\. this time, in order to facilitate the 
Senates important business, and for no 
other reason, with no admission of any 
guilt, I do hereby resjgn the office of 
President. I will remain on the Presidents 
Education Committee and Faculty Senate 
Education Affairs Council for the time 
being.
Sincerely, 
v Scott Sibley
violently prone, frequently sadistic inmate. 
Further, the congressman spoke cf the 
disproportionate treatment of petty 
street crimes  and white collar crimes. 
Noting that white collar crimes cost the 
taxpayer about four billion dollars an
nually, Conyers stated that when it comes 
to the issue of economic crimes versus 
street crimes, its my recommendation that 
the two be treated with more balance...' 
If we were to connect the need for full 
employment with the frequency of street 
crimes, we could begin to move forward. 
Speaking on other issues, Conyers dis
cussed the national budget and American 
foreign policy. He described the new fed
eral budget as deceptive in that it did 
not allow for a high inflationary rate. Con
yers said of the budget, Its devastating 
the needs of the working people, the poor, 
and minorities. Opposed to the increased 
military spending of the Carter Admini
stration, Conyers described the Presidents 
recent State of the Union speech as frightenly warlike. He called the governments 
foreign military actions a repeal of the 
times when the U.S. was not the police
man of the world. He said that America 
should not boycott the Olympics because, 
in his opinion, There are other ways of 
sending the Russians a message without 
interfering with the Games. I feel that 
participating in the Games will in no way 
sanction the totally unconscionable con
duct with the Russians.
Conyers entertained questions from 
the audience for 25 minutes.
Doing nothing is better 
than being busy doing
nothing.
Lao-tse
President's Piece
With Student Government elections 
coming up, I think it is appropriate for me 
to review some of the events of the past 
few months.
I was elected as a Senator from H&SS 
last year, and became Chairperson of Stu
dent Senate last fall. Most recently, follow
ing the resignation of Scott Sibley, I have 
become President of Student Government. 
In this time, I have seen a lot of positive 
tilings happen, as well as some unfortunate 
events.
Many people do not see or understand 
what Student Government does, or can do. 
It deals with such issues as the Activities 
Fee, which touches all of us. So does draft 
registration, or the impeachment of an 
officer. It is a time to ask--what do we 
want from our Senators and President? 
They have office hours, they care about 
the students, they are students too. Ques
tions about how much a group should be 
funded is your concern, its your money. 
Senate meetings, general and committee, 
are open to the public-come and speak
to us, ask questions, get involved!!!
Elections are a good way to start this 
process. Who are you going to vote for-as 
a Senator, as President-and why? Im 
going to be running again for Senator, and 
after seeing the troubles, and at times, 
confusion of the students with regards to 
the last President, it is very clear to me the 
next one should be carefully chosen. That 
person must be concerned and effective, 
must be available and communicated 
with, and have his or her performance 
scrutinized. It is time for some action and 
forcefulness, coupled with reason and re
sponsibility to be the hallmark of Student 
Government.
You may read or hear of endorsements 
of candidates, across campus, but dont let 
that be your sole criterion. Think, about 
who you will vote for, what has he/she 
done, what can they do? Choose carefully. 
-Student Government is your representa
tion it makes a difference. GET INVOL
VED!!!
Ralph Sherman 
Student Government President
Design Lecture SeriesSponsored by the Department of Design Carnegie-Mellon University
March 5 Ralph CaplanWriter andCommunications Design Consultant 
The Designer as Universal Joint
PH 100Wed. 8 pm
QQQOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOQOQQQQQQQQQimj^MMMMMMgflflQQQQQQOOQQQQQOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO',,.- " 
CAMPUS CONVENIENCEICa rnegiMlloIi UvstytPSKIBO 40A
OOQOOOQOooooooooQOOQQooQOQOOOOOOfiAMiMMMMMMMMMMMAMAiMMgAiUiiMAMiiQOQOOOOOOQoooQoooooo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANMarch 4,1980
CMU PROFESSOR
Dr. Clarence Zener 
^ on 
The Mechanism 
of Earthquakes
LUNCHEON FORUM 
THURSDAY MARCH 6 
WHERRETT ROOM 12:30
Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning
Taxpayers benefit from tax law changes
Pittsburgh,PA - Taxpayers filing their This means that taxpayers who had to tile 
federal income tax returns this year will a tax return last year may not be required 
find a number of new provisions which in to fr 1979. The new income levels 
some cases may reduce their income tax are S3.300 tor singles and head of housebills, Thomas L. Davis, District Director holds and S5 .400 foi mairied couples both 
of Internal Revenue Service for Western under 65 and filing a joint return and living 
Pennsylvania said. together at the end of 1979.
The zero bracket amount, the minimum ^ew this year, and possibly helptul to 
amount of income not subject to taxation, many parents, is an addition to the variety 
is increased to $2,300 for singles or heads of of persons whose services may be claimed 
households, SI ,700 for marrieds filing sepfr the Child and Disabled Dependent 
arately, and $3,400 for marrieds filing ^are Credit.
jointly or qualifying widowers, according Parents may now take credit tor payto Davis. Also increased is the personal ments made to a relative, including a 
exemption deduction from $750 to grandparent, unless the relative is the tax$1,000. payer's dependent or child under 19.
In addition, income levels at which tax Starting with the 1979 tax year, a taxreturns must be filed have been liberalized, payer who itemizes deductions can noSenate Report:
by Doug Kirsop to Washington, D.C. two weeks ago. They
The conviction hearing for impeached felt that since he had been told by the 
president Scott Sibley that was to have officers of Senate before leaving that he 
3egan the February 19 meeting of Student was going on his own, and no longer as the 
Senate was instead foflowed by the election president of the student body of CMU, he 
of Mike Inners (MIS) as Chair of Senate, should pay for the trip himself. More 
Just as the trial was to begin. Sibley handed discussion, especially regarding a 
his letter of resignation to Chairman Ralph comprimise, is expected at tonight's Senate 
Sherman, who then, according to Senate's meeting.
bylaws, assumed the position of president. Motions regarding class add/drop deadAs Inners was the chair of the Academic lines is expected to be introduced at 
Affairs committee. Senate then had to tonights meeting. The first would call for 
elect a member of that committee as its the extension of the drop deadline to the 
chair. Robin Smith (SUPA) was elected by last day of class, and the second for exa vote of 9-2-7. tending the time to add a class until one
Several senators expressed their feelings week prior to midterms. Senate was also 
that the section of the bylaws dealing with asked to look into the possibility of an 
impeachment and conviction need to be open exam schedule, where students could 
revised and made more definitive. Dan take any final during the morning, afterNichols (UFO) also pointed out that they noon, or evening of any day during finals 
should include a section on censure, week.
Senate also decided by a vote of 9-8-2 Tonights Senate meeting is at 6:30 PM 
that they should not pay for Sibleys trip in the Wherrett Room.
longer deduct state and local taxes imposeu 
on gasoline or other motor fuel for person
al use. On the other hand, the standard 
mileage rate increases from 17 cents to 
18Zi cents for the first 15.000 miles of 
business use and 7 cents to 8 cents for 
moving, medical and charitable use.
Political contributions are no longer 
deductible. However, taxpayers can claim 
a larger tax credit - up to S50. or $100 on 
a joint returnfor contributions to candi
dates for public office and political com
mittees.
More persons may now qualify for 
larger earned income credit (EIC). They 
may also have the option to receive EIC 
payments during the year, with their pay
checks, by filing a W-5 formEarned InThe following Senators have established 
office hours in the Senate office, Room 59, 
Skibo.
David Olsen MIS Wed 11:30-12:30
Mike Inners MIS Thu 12:00-1:00
Kim Ames MIS Wed 1:00-2:00
Bill Koshut MIS Wed 1:30-2:30
NinaHouska C1T Tue 10:30-11:30
Dan Nichols H&SS Tue 5:30-6:30
Kevin Kelly CIT Fri 2:30-3:30
Jim Collyer CFA Fri 12:30-1:30
Mike Lynch CIT Tue 12:30-1:30
Robin Smith SUPA Thu S:00-6:00
Enc Butler CIT Wed 10:30-11:30
MarkBrna CFA Thu 11:30-12:30
Patrick Crump T re as Tue 1:30-2:30
Pam McKay CFA Thu 2:30-3:30
Jim Foster CFA Mon 10*30-11:30
Laurie Elm CIT Tue 10:30-11:30
Jerry Ritchie H&SS Wed 2:30-3:30
Connie Smith CIT
Sharon Jaffe CFA
Carl Freedman CFA
MaryAnn Lawton CIT Wed 12:30-1:30 
H. Walter Young GSIA * . '
Ralph Sherman President
come Credit Advance Payment Certificate 
with their employers. Aimed at working 
parents whose income is less than $10,000 
a year, the EIC can go as high as $500. 
For more details, call or visit your local 
1RS office.
For a more detailed look at the changes, 
order a free copy of the 1RS Publication 
533, Highlights of 1979 Tax Changes." 
This and some 90 other 1RS publications 
can be ordered by mail, using the handy 
order form in your tax package, or by call
ing the 1RS number listed in the local 
telephone directory. If more convenient 
they can also be picked up at most 1RS 
offices.
S.W.E. on jobs
Pittsburgh. Pa. The Society of Women 
Engineers is holding its Third Annual 
Technical Careers Conference on Sat
urday, March 8 from 8:45 AM to 4:30 PM 
in Skibo. The day long program will pro
vide career information, through work
shops and presentations, for college and 
high school students of all prospective 
majors. The sessions offered within the 
workshops for college students include 
mock interviewing, resume writing, and 
summer job hunting. The high school 
students workshops include choosing a 
major, student project presentations in 
the engineering laboratories and a panel 
discussion on college life.
Representatives from various corpora
tions will be on had to provide career 
I information. All conference participants 
are invited to meet with the corporate 
representatives from 9:30 AM to 4:30 PM 
in the Wherrett Room.
The conference is open to all high 
school and college students, free of charge. 
Registration takes place the day of the 
conference in Skibo, beginning at 8:45 AM.

---------------------------------------------------

March 4,1980TARTAN-Page 7
The following is a draft of the Educational Affairs Councils recommendation to 
the Faculty Senate concerning the quality of teaching and faculty course evaluations.
For the past several months, the Educational Affairs Council has been discussing 
ways to improve the quality of teaching on our campus. There is widespread agree
ment that this issue is closely connected to the general educational flavor of the school 
and the intellectual atmosphere that exists here, but we have focussed for the time 
being on the narrow question of teaching quality.
It is clear that the quality of teaching on campus is already quite good. Neverthe
less, significant improvement is possible at all levels, and it is certainly in the interest 
of students, faculty and administration that we strive for better teaching, and for bet
ter understanding of its role in our University.
Our discussion has led us to several major areas of interest: (1) The concern moti
vating our original examination of this question was the problem of dealing with truly 
bad teaching in a constructive fashion. A closely related, but more general, issue is 
that of finding ways to improve the overall teaching enterprise at CMU. Major ques
tions which arise here are concerned with staffing levels (are there enough teachers, 
lab assistants, etc. for the required load?) and teaching facilities (lecture rooms, AV 
equipment, cleanliness, etc.). There is also interest in a comprehensive staff develop
ment program for newly hired faculty and faculty judged to need improvement in 
teaching skills.
(2) In what ways is good teaching rewarded at CMU? Is top quality teaching a deci
sive factor in salary, promotion, and tenure decisions? It is judged to be as important 
as research? The answers to these questions are not at all clear, and vary from depart
ment to department and college to college. The committee feels that University policy 
ought to be more clearly stated, and then followed consistently. There is fairly wide
spread feeling that excellent teaching is not well enough publicized or well enough re
warded. For example, we award only one major teaching prize (the Ryan) per year 
for over 500 faculty.
(3) Closely related to item (2) are questions concerning teaching evaluation. The 
present system is basically ad hoc and suffers considerable variation from place to 
place. In order to evaluate teaching in a fair way, and thus provide necessary informa
tion for item (2), there has been considerable interest in developing standardized, 
mandatory procedures for such evaluations. It is recognized that such procedures may 
differ from college to college, but each faculty member should be informed clearly 
about them, the way in which they will be used, and the results. It is felt that in all 
cases both student and peer evaluation should be included. It is obvious that every 
attempt should be made to insure fairness and as discreet a procedure as possible. 
This is a delicate issue which requires the cooperation of faculty, students and admin
istration in the development of evaluation methods which will be acceptable to as large 
a part of the community as possible.
In order to move toward these goals, the EAC recommends that:
(1) the administration define more clearly the place of teaching in the University and 
the role it plays in salary determination, promotion, and tenure. We urge that topquality teaching be made a decisive factor in these decisions, and that a more extensive 
reward system be established to foster such quality.
(2) teaching facilities and instructional support systems be enhanced so that all teach
ers can do better work.
(3) a method for mandatory teaching evaluation be developed by a faculty/student/ 
administration committee that will be a reliable and fair instrument for making such 
judgement,
(4) a comprehensive staff development program be provided for newly-hired faculty 
and faculty judged needful of improvement in teaching.
FCE improvements sought
TARTAN NEWS 
STAFF MEETING
Wednesday at 6:15 PM 
Wherrett Room
Current staff and interested persons 
are encouraged to attend
The Music Department of CMU presents
CARLOS BARBOSALIMA
Guitarist in Recital
MONDAY, MARCH 10 - 8:00 P.M. 
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL
Student Tickets $2.00 with CMU ID 
$4 00 Without CMU ID
MASTERCLASSES
TUESDAY, MARCH 11 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12 
3-5:30 P.M. 7:30-10 P.M. 
FACULTY LOUNGE COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS 
Free with CMU ID
by Jeanne Abmayr
The Educational Affairs Council (EAC) 
of the Faculty Senate recently drafted a 
recommendation focusing on teaching 
quality here. Several objectives were pre
sented, not only to improve the quality of 
teaching, but to better understand the role 
it plays in the university.
According to history professor Dr. Barry 
Beyer, council member, the first step 
toward improving education is to publicly 
define what we mean by good teaching. 
Physic professor Dr. Robert Eisenstein, 
council head, said that a clear administra
tive policy is needed regarding the import
ance placed on teaching ability in deter
mining tenure, salaries, and promotions. 
Additional questions have been raised by 
the EAC concerning adequate departmen
tal staffing, teaching facilities, and incen
tives for improvement.
However, the issue being discussed which 
has perhaps the greatest immediate impact 
on the student body is the A Phi O faculty 
course evaluations. In the past, problems 
have arisen regarding their ability to serve 
as a positive, comprehensive means of eval
uating faculty performance. Several possi
ble changes may include: 1) Requiring 
that a student-organized evaluation be 
mandatory for professors of all courses. 
Although some variations may exsist 
between colleges, it would provide a 
universal critique of teaching which could 
be more beneficial to both students and
faculty in spotting problem areas. 2) 
Anonymous course evaluations could 
become a thing of the past. Since students 
remain unidentified, many of their com
ments are seen as personal attacks, not 
substantiated criticism. By requiring that 
students names be given, perhaps the evalu
ation process would be taken more serious
ly. 3) Beyer expressed his biggest objection 
to the evaluation system as What good is 
mandatory evaluation if the data is not 
used constructively to reward those profes
sors who excel in teaching, and provide 
facilities for those who wish to improve? 
Only one award (the Ryan) is given for 
excellence in teaching among over 550 
faculty members. Also, help is available for 
professors applying for research grants, 
but not for those who may have weak
nesses in teaching. (Several years ago, such 
a service was proposed and funded, but 
never implemented.) Without some way to 
constructively use the information 
collected, mandatory evaluation seems 
almost pointless, he explained.
Several issues concerning the problem of 
teaching quality will be discussed at the 
next EAC meeting on March 13. At that 
time, the EACs original recommendations 
will be discussed and prepared as resolu
tions, which will be voted on at the next 
Faculty Senate meeting on April 3. 
Eisenstein would welcome any comments 
that students have on these issues on or 
before March 12.
STUDYABROAD
WITHSYRACUSEUNIVERSITYSpring 1980/Summer 1980 
SEMESTER PROGRAMS:
 Florence  Madrid
 Strasbourg! Amsterdam
 London
Variety of courses ottered  No 
language background required 
Financial Aid available. Summer 
programs available in England, Italy & 
Austria. Apply now for Summer 
1980 & I all 1980.
PROGRAM OF INTEREST__________________________________________________________________________________
For more information and application raturn to
Division of Intarnational Programs Abroad 335 Comstock Awa, Room N, Syracuw, NY 13310
Peace Corps 
VIS1A
Resident Recruiter now located at the 
PITT YMCA 
Student Union 
Room 508
Call: KEVIN McCANN 644-5689
If no answer, please leave messaqe at 
624-5912

---------------------------------------------------

classified
Help Wanted:$370/ thousand for envelopes
you mail. Postage paid. Free application. 
J.A. Jones, R.D. 1, C35 Hunkes,PA 15639. 
ANTI-COMMUNIST BOOKS. The world's 
rarest commodity! Banned in 60 countries! 
194 titles. Write for our list! The Appala
chian Forum, P.O. Box 1992, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15230.
Highland Laddie,
Come to me.... Bonnie Jean
Squirrel Hill: Furnished apartmentHobart
& Murray close to shopping, transpor
tation, entertainment. Excellent condition, 
clean, spacious, new furniture. Living 
room, dining room, bedroom, kitchen, 
bath, yard, storage area. For mature and 
responsible graduate students. $350.00 
including all utilities. 521-4120 after 5PM. 
Riders Needed. Flordia. Spring Break. Call 
Chris 621-8965, or Susan 521-2210. 
Will type term papers, etc. Reasonable 
rates. Call before 9 PM, Shirley. 521-0534. 
Found: Gold star necklace in elevator in 
Morewood over mid-semester break. Skibo 
Information Desk.
To Brian (my favourite Chem E),
Never before have 
Two
So beautifully become 
One.
As blue and yellow 
Combine to form 
G reen,
So do we combine.
Oh, so smoothly...
Though it's been 
Years,
I see it as a beginning.
And forever I give you 
My love.
Thank you for February 15. I'll remember 
it always. ...never and always touching 
and touched.''
Forever,
Sandi
Bloomfield: Furnished 1 and 2 bedroom
apts. $200-$250 plus utilities. Close to 
everything. Parking. 3-5 PM, 462-7319; 
after 5 PM, 362-8887.
Interested in living at Tech House next
year? We've got lots to offer... Call 621 - 
2911 for information.
JOB HUNTING? Get more interviews
with a professionally prepared, indivi
dually designed resume from employ
ment experts. Complete writing, editing, 
typing and printing services. Special 
student discount rates! Call today! 
MANGO - ANDREWS RESUME 
-391-3232.
Attention: Pre-medical student at Univer
sity of Pittsburgh seeks young lady for 
friendship, togetherness, and marriage. 
Send replies to: Box 71043, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213.
Girls...Are you looking for a summer coun
selor position? Applicants are now being 
considered for the1980 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the foHowing: 
Arts&Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist at 
singing, Archery, Tennis Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
Water Skiing Instructor or General Ath
letics.
Counselor Unit Leaders must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
plan schedule for activities, evening pro
grams, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15217, or phone, 412-521-2376.
Shadyside: Lux 1 Bd. Apt., dw, A/C,
w-w intercom, 3rd,ret. required. $250 plus 
electric, 3-5 PM, 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887
BROWN LEATHER GLOVES left in
Engineering and Science Library on Tues
day, February 19. I'd love to have them 
back. If you found them, please return to 
Skibo Information Desk.
SUMMER SUBLET 1 bedroom. Squirrel
Hill. $170 including utilities. 422-8373 
evenings.
For Rent: Shadyside apartment. 1 bed
room w/kitchen and bath. $125 call Jeff 
Marcus before 5:00 x2392.
Found Ladies glasses near 4th floor ele
vator; men's watch in E&S Library. Can 
be identified at the security office. 
Petitioners needed to collect signatures for 
political party. $30-$50 per day possible. 
Must be registered voters. Call Michael 
Markowitz at 521-0506 Sun-Thurs evenings
OFFER JOBS
Theres a big difference. The MITRF. Cor
poration has two major locations, with 11 
technical divisions and 63 departments. Our 
1573 members of the technical staff provide 
systems solutions to Federal, state, regional 
and local governmental agencies. There's plen
ty of opportunity ro grow in responsibility.
Many companies offer you a job which can 
broaden your career. But when the challenge 
is gone, most professionals seek a new com
pany with a new job and a new challenge. At 
MITRE we recognize this need for new chal
lenges and new opportunities. With dozens 
of sponsors and scores ot projects in a w ide 
varictv of technologies we offer the oppor
tunity to CHANGE JOBS WITHOUT 
CHANGING COMPANIES. The direction 
of your career at MITRF is up to you. We'll 
help you stay on track through our staff 
development programs. We offer 100' i tuition 
prepayment and company paid professional 
growth seminars.
At our facility in Bedford, Massachusetts 
(just outside Boston), were Imking at all 
kinds of command, control and communica
tions problems as technical advisor to the Air 
Forces Electronic Systems Division.
At our McLean, Virginia facility just out
side Washington, D.C.), we're not only work
ing on defense and military systems but also 
on signiHcent problems in air traffic control; 
energy resources and the environment; civil
information systems; information manage
ment and communications systems; ground 
transportation and more. Much more.
At either location, opportunities constantly 
arise to challenge your intelligence, your 
knowledge, your motivation, In search of 
solutions, MITRF people use the tools of 
systems engineering and analy sis. If this type 
of atmosphere intrigues you and if you have 
a degree (or are about to receive one) in elec
trical engineering, computer Science, math, 
physics, or economics, wed like to know 
more about you. See your Placement Office 
to set up an on-campus interview, or send 
vour resume dircctlv to:
Jerome P. McKinnon 
The MITRE Corporation 
Bedford, MA 01730
Ronald S. Hill 
Washington Center 
The MITRE Corporation 
1S20 Dollev Madison Blvd. 
McLean, VA 22102
MITRE will be at 
Carnegie Mellon 
on March 10,1980
\U I Rl ti Mt iif/mrtuMh emplowr. Mtttvly seeking lonUr it> X/fimutitr \i ti</

---------------------------------------------------

COMBO TACTIC: 'this is our tactic, this combo.
by Christopher Pullman and Renee Rosenfeld
If you made an attempt this year to 
hear what Pittsburgh and CMU had to offer 
in the way of bands and especially if you
look into the local New Music scene over 
the last year, there is a good chance you 
saw a band called The Shakes. If you 
did, theres a very good chance that you 
were impressed either with their intense 
performance, or their intelligent, satiricbut-not-toocynical lyrics, or with their 
very catchy pop melodies that stayed in 
your head all the next day. Maybe it was 
just that ominous looking bass player (who 
you were always seeing in Skibo.)
Well, they are now COMBO TACTIC, 
and under that name, youll probably be 
hearing a lot more from them. They are 
Tracy Wuischpard, Hugh Esten, Michael 
Gaertner, and Bill Fancher. My cassette re
recorder, which were featured on the taped 
chen of their house on Beacon Street. 
What follows are excerpts of that conver
sation, in all its candor and bad grammar.
Til be your 
robot if you ask 
me. Give me an
order-set me 
_______free.'______
The sounds of Michael Gaertner bouncing 
a yoyo on the table top next to the 
recorder, which featured on the taped edi
tion, have been edited out of this printed 
sdition.
Interviewer: Could you start by giving a 
brief history of how and why you got to
gether?
MICHAEL: How we got together is easier 
than why...
Interviewer: Did it start with Bobby 
Angel? (a play created by Hugh, pro
duced at Theatre Express in early 1979.) 
HUGH: I think we preceded that...
TRACY: Bobby Angel was a crutch to 
build a band.
Clockwise; Michael Gaertner, Hugh Esten, Tracy Wuischpard, and Bill Fancher
making the band, stimulated by what was 
going on in New York.
Interviewer: Because it wasnt going on
HUGH: A stage along the way, it was a sta
tion of the cross... In the fall of 1978 
Tracy and I started writing music together. 
MICHAEL: Somewhere around there you 
found out I played bass guitar...
HUGH: Yeah, and had built a synthesizer. 
We met in our second year, but I dont 
think I knew you played an instrument 
our junior year. And together,with Bob.
mont, we created the sound, the audible 
environment for Every Afternoon, by 
Gertrude Stein,..
MICHAEL: That was a play Hugh did at 
school.
HUGH: With bass and synthesizer, and that 
was while Tracy and I were writing songs. 
TRACY: Yeah, I guess that fall was...we 
talked to each other on the phone about 
what was going on with other bands in 
New York, and we decided to do something 
ourselves.
HUGH: We just started talking about
here?
TRACY: We thought it would be fun.
HUGH: And we thought part of the plan 
was to do it in different cities, that a differ
ent city should have its own indigenous 
new music...Anyway, we did play together 
for Bobby Angel, we played with Mike 
Kaniecki and Jimmey Podrasky of the 
Rave-Ups, we collaborated with them writ
ing the music for it. The next time we 
played was the Beaux Arts Ball.
TRACY: That was horrible; no sound 
check, no monitors...
HUGH: That was the night, actually, we 
really decided we wanted to a be a band. 
We thought we did before that, but after 
failing at it so miserably we had to make 
the effort, we had to prove we could do it 
after that.
Interviewer: What kinds of big plans do 
you have now, anything concrete?
TRACY: Were playing at the Decade April 
first and April ninth.
HUGH: We also have plans for a new 
single, but theres no date on that. We hope 
to get it out in the month of April, so out 
of town students can take it back to their 
home towns with them.
Interviewer: Do you know whats going to 
be on it?
HUGH: Well we... _________
Bobby Angel
is just a face on the 
screen; cold boy 
in a hot machine.'
^fSSAEL^^o^^^dorT^Tno^^ThatT
going to be,on it.
Interviewer: You havent decided?
HUGH: Theres one serious expectation, 
the other side is undecided.
MICHAEL: Weve talked about a few 
things...
HUGH: Did we fully answer the first 
question about how we came together? 
MICHAEL: We didnt talk about Bill, 
our drummer...
Interviewer: Yeah, where did Bill come 
from?
HUGH: Bill was definately our fifth drum
mer, but it was definately obsession at first 
sight. Hes the first one whos ever played 
more than once with us.
BILL: I participated in Bobby Angel as 
a member of the audience. I read in the 
Pittsburgh New Magazine that they were 
looking for a drummer, and I offered my 
services, they said they had already found 
somebody. So I waited around till they got 
desperate, and they finally called me up. 
Interviewer: Youd been drumming before 
that?
BILL: A long time back, I hadnt done it in 
a while.
continued on page 12
Visual Personality, Christopher Pullman
by Renee Rosenfeld
Its 9:00 PM, a Sunday evening, and 
suddenly on the T.V. screen you witness 
a Union Jack sailing before your eyes. The 
visual journey ends and Alstair Cooke 
appears to verbally introduce Master
piece Theater. From your side of the 
television set youve probably never 
considered the craftsmanship behind the 
images you watch on public television. 
This creation of the visual personality of 
one of PBSs major producing stations 
was the focus of Chris Pullmans Design 
Issues Lecture on February 19.
In 1966, Pullman received his MFA in 
design from Yale. He became a consultant 
to the office of George Nelson in 1968, 
where he worked on several major projects, 
including a publications, and visual commu
nications program for the Social Security 
Administration. In 1972, he left the 
Nelson office to continue work for the 
Social Security Administration. In 1973,
he was enticed to accept the position of 
Design Manager for WGBH, TV 2, Boston. 
At first Pullman was reluctant to work 
in television because of a negative attitude 
which had its origin in his college days. 
Since then, public television has reversed 
this attitude for Pullman.
The purpose of commercial television, 
according to Pullman, is to sustain your 
interest between commercials; program
ming is merely the glue between commer
cials. In public television, programming is 
for its own sake. WGBH is a service organ
ization. This deviation from commercial 
television allows Pullman and his staff to 
break away and experiment with graphics.
 One of the really interesting character
istics of television is that time is an extre
mely realistic concept, because at 9:00 a 
program is on and because it cant be 9:05, 
somehow. You know, if youre late to the 
printer nobody screams and yells, but if 
youre late to the studio its big trouble.
Christopher Pullman by Renee Rosenfeld
Further, Pullman describes designing for 
Public Television as different from most 
graphic design because the designer must 
respond to problems. Design at WGBH 
since Pullmans appointment as Design 
Manager has expanded to the point where 
the design department reaches into almost 
every facet of the station.
Pullman captivated his audience through 
witty comments and examples of projects. 
With monitors located around the room, 
Pullman presented examples of program 
introductions, station promotional spots, 
and fillers, among others. His responsibili
ties also include such graphic work as 
funding proposals, station premiums, sub
way and buscar posters, tradebooks, study 
guides, advertisements, and the list goes on.
Pullman illustrated the use of creativ 
ity in solving problems complicated by 
low budget restrictions. By encouraging 
his staff to pursue unconventional, brain
stormed ideas, Pullman has found high suc
cess in communicating with his audience. 
Once, as a last-ditch fund raising effort, he 
printed an ad that cried WOLF! and 
(really) printed directly underneath. The 
ad brought WGBH within a comfortable 
sum of the stations goal. Along the lines 
of promotion, Pullmans staff constructed 
a three-dimentional number 2 around the 
body of a Volkswagon. The 2 Mobile 
now cruises around the streets of Boston.
The design staff at WGBH has ac
complished the difficult skill of maximiz
ing the potential of the use of animation. 
To Pullman, the purpose of animation is 
to blow reality out of the water. In a 
series of fund raising spots, Pullman 
animates cliche cries for help. Once again 
WGBH, as found a high rate of return.
Pullman and the personality WGBH 
portrays brings to light new challenges in 
the field of design. Through public tele
vision, Pullman has unleashed the excite
ment of vivid imagination in design.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANMarch 4. dSb,s
Commuter Council revived
by Karen Stevens
On Wednesday, March 5 at 11:30 AM 
the revised Commuter Council of CMU will 
meet for its third meeting. This revival of 
the council was enacted by Nina Houska, a 
Student Senator who felt the commuters 
and off-campus students needed facilities 
to accommadate their needs.
The council will be open to all CMU 
students who are interested in working 
together to establish these facilities.
Suggestions made at the first two 
meetings include: l)estabilishing a lounge 
where commuters could meet other com
muters, 2 )arranging an emergency car pool 
system to aid those who may encounter 
difficulties getting to school, 3)informing
the administration about transportation 
problems during bad weather, 4)rennovating locker rooms for commuter use, 5) 
lobbying against PAT rate hikes, 6)investigation of bus routes in an attempt to make 
routes more accommadating to CMU, 7) 
investigating parking facilites  Where does 
the money go? Is there enough? and 8) 
providing an area where commuters could 
pick up messages and campus mail-.
If you have other suggestions or would 
like to hear other thoughts, feel free to 
attend tomorrows meeting in Skibo 
Room 11. A weekly meeting will be estab
lished at this meeting; see next weeks 
TARTAN for details.SWE plans conference
All of us are faced with countless deci
sions while planning a career, from choos
ing a school and a major, to going on job in
terviews. Talking to people who have gone 
through it already is always helpful. This 
Saturday, March 8, SWE (Society of Wo
men Engineers) is offering the campus 
community and high school students the 
opportunity to meet and talk with repre
sentatives from major corporations about 
these matters at the Third Annual Techni
cal Careers Conference.
Two programs will be conducted, one 
with emphasis for college students and one 
geared toward high school students. IVesentations for college students will revolve 
around job interveiws, resume writing,
summer jobs, post-graduate financial con
siderations, and factors to consider when 
choosing a job. Choosing a major, lab 
tours, a panel discussion on college life are 
planned for the high school sudents. Both 
groups will be albe to talk to company 
representatives, from Koppers, ft>laroid, 
Olin, Westinghouse, General Dynamics, 
Elliot, and more, about their jobs, their 
companies, and their products.
The conference will begin at 8:45 AM 
with registration in Skibo and last until 
4:30 PM with a break for lunch. One can 
come at any time during the conference, 
attending all or just a few of the work
shops. fte-registaration is not necessary. 
Everyone is invited to attend.
You will only grow when you 
are alone. Hindu proverb
Electrical Engineering 
and
Computer Science Majors
San Francisco Bay Area Computer and Computerized 
Telephone Equipment Manufacturer seeks talented 
individuals interested in:
 Telephony
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 CPU and Memory Design
 Real Time Systems Software
 Data Communications Software
 System Programming Languages
 Hardware/Software Interfacing
 Test Engineering
 Production Engineering
 Field Engineering
ROLM Corporation, located in Santa Clara. 
California, has grown 50 - 100% each year and 
currently has 2600 employees. ROLM's Tele
communications Division is the leading indepen
dent supplier of computerized PBX's (CBX) and 
microprocessor controlled telephones. ROLM's 
Mil Spec Computer Division offers a complete 
line of rugged general purpose minicomputers
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after six years (and every seven years thereafter). 
Company paid tuition and time off for Graduate 
Study at Stanford, and flexible working hours
On Campus Interviews
Friday, March 14, 1980
Chd with Working Hardware and Sottwara Engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center. See our Company 
Literature in the Placement Center.
Zi Thefol wn ewwlhg eh ShwlatSlrs
vlhg alvTbl wn
Gibson Anderson 
Engineering Group Manager 
ROLM Corporation 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive 
Santa Clara, CA 95050
We are an equal opportunity/aHirmative action employer
CORPORATION
When the quiet comes
by Audrey Mojinie
A couple of weeks ago several freinds and I were driving back to campus from 
downtown when, to use a classic image, the silence between us became deafening.
Angels flying overhead,  remarked Michael, the driver.
What do that mean? I asked.
Its an old Polish saying. Whenever a group of people suddenly become really 
quiet, it means that angels are flying above them.
Not suprisingly, the quiet went away very quickly as we all got into an interesting 
discussion of the flight patterns of angelic creatures and whether or not atheists have 
a lessened sensitivity to low-flying cherubim. However, judging from the frequency 
and intensity of these little moments of silence in recent days, I have begun wondering 
about the number of angels crisscrossing the Pittsburgh skies.
Nothing against old Polish sayings or winged seraphim, but I feel that the seeds of 
these silences are very present-day and down-to-earth. In the stormy waters of relation
ships that many people travel, it seems that there is a strong undercurrent of tension: 
the oft-unspoken definitions of being alive and adult, of existing within certain roles of 
male and female, or even artist and engineer--these simply do not fit anymore. Things 
are dark and fuzzy around the edges, undefined and shifting.
There is a good amount of comfort in the familiar roles. We know what to talk 
about, and where to put our hands. And with so many parts of our lives and our world 
in so much confusion, it is helpful to have some well-worn paths that we can walk on 
and feel secure and relaxed.
But what happens when these paths become too safe? When the distance between 
the comforting roles and the fuzzy edges of ourselves is so great that it is too danger
ous to try to cross? This is when the quiet comes, reminding us of the very real differ
ences between who we seem to be in conversations and actions and who we really are.
Undeniably, the quiet and what it means is often very painful. Painful enough that 
sometimes it may be best to fall back to where there is firm ground, where we can find 
assurance and security and a kind of warmth. Continually confronting limitations 
leaves a bruised body and a battered spirit.
If we try to fill the silence with words, it quickly becomes apparent that there are 
some things which words simply cannot express. We can write lines of poetry and 
prose, speak dramatically or honestly and personally with one another, but we still 
cant say all there is to say. The idea that words are all weve got does not free us to 
share thoughts and feelings, but binds us to definitions and connotations. And when 
we try to use words to communicate whatever is undefiniable, we fail, sometimes 
miserably.
Maybe, instead of half-sadly half-joyfully waiting for the angels to pass over us so 
we can speak again, we should try embracing the silence for what it says about our
selves. After all, although there is no noise when people are quiet, it is clear that 
people are thinking and wanting and communicating in ways that require a different 
way of listening.
In a book called Consequences: Truth and..., Daniel Berrigan wrote the follow
ing about people and relationships and being quiet. It whispers the promise of some
thing fresh and new and deep if we can reach out and touch the silence, and at least 
begin to try to understand it.
There has never been a skill capable of phrasing 7 love youin a way that could 
capture the immediate, unique epiphany of another person, here and now realized and 
radiant. But for consolation: There are other arts at hand. And most effective and be
fitting of all, that of silence. 
^Hllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^
Discover The 
J MANY SUMMERS OF RIT f15 Sessions, 15 Study Areas !and more than 200 Courses I
Study this summer at the place with an |
international reputation for excellenceRIT. f
Whether you choose |
our College of Fine and I
Applied Arts, Graphic |
Arts & Photography, |
General Studies, |
Science, or Continuing |
Education, chances are, f
you'll find a course and |
a session that's right for !
you. x |
Don't delay.... Summer f
begins June 2. f
For registration infor|
mation and a 1980 I
Summer Session Catat
log, contact I
SH Rochester Institute of Technology
= III III Summer Session =
|lS5 CoHeg** of Coi>tminw| Education Roctwstw, NY 14623 
Out* Loml> Mwnoiidl Diivt* (7161475 2234 S
1 1 r.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuK

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1980-TARTANPage 11
Campus Ministry sparks hunger awareness
by Cindy Berkowitz
Hunger Awareness Week came to an 
end with song and prayer at 4:00 on 
Friday, February 29. The concluding 
ceremony was the culmination of the 
Campus Ministry Councils week long 
effort to bring the attention of the CMU 
campus to world hunger problems.
Hunger Awareness Week included a 
variety of activities, but the 24 hour fast 
gained the most participation and atten
tion. Although the exact number of stu
dents who fasted to earn pledges is not 
yet known, the Campus Ministry 
Council expects that there were a few 
hundred participants. Two years ago, 
the same project raised $2800; the 
Council is optimistic about this years 
figure. The money raised from the fast 
will be donated to OXFAM AMERICA, 
an organization which aids starving 
people throughout the world. The 
Campus Ministry Council chose to 
support this particular organization 
because it has lower administration 
costs (less than 10%) than similar 
organizations and is not associated with 
one particular religion. At present, a 
main target of OXFAM is bringing aid 
to Cambodia. Throughout the week, 
students manned a table in the lobby of 
Skibo, giving out informative pamphlets 
and showing a slide presentation along 
with a recording explaining the starva
tion problem in Cambodia which began 
with the extensive bombing of rural
areas of Cambodia by the U.S. from 
1969 to the end of the Vietnam War. 
Three lectures were held during the 
week, title, Is Hunger a Religious 
Issue?, Hunger From a Worldwide 
Perspective, and Worldwide Struc
ture of Hunger.
The Hunger Awareness Week gave a 
meaningful significance to its activities. 
Its two-fold purpose was to create 
awareness on the campus of world 
hunger problems and to raise as much 
funds as possible. The program, a time 
honored custom, is one of the few 
interfaith activities held during the year 
and is useful to bring many students of 
many faiths together to work for a 
common cause. This year, the fast 
had some unique interfaith aspects 
because it coincided with the Christian 
celebration of Lent and the fast of 
Esther preceding the Jewish holiday of 
Purim. Students viewed the fast as a 
sacrificial religious activity.
The Break fast celebration symbo
lized all these themes of Hunger Aware
ness Week. The event was one of very 
few interfaith ceremonies held during 
the year. The prayers read dealt with 
the ideas of awareness of hunger prob
lems and the religious meaning of the 
sacrificial fast. After a group of thirty 
students sang and prayed with the 
ministers and rabbi, a break fast snack, 
described as being intentionally mea
ger, to comply with the religious 
meaning was served.
The Campus Ministry Council is optimistic about the effect of the Program. 
The Presbyterian Reverend Wayne Nick
erson commented, The purpose is to 
put into action some of the principles 
that I see operative in my life and the 
lives of the students that I work with. I
am concerned about American society 
at this point. It seems that we are 
moving into a period of hyper-national
ism, America first. If that is true, it 
would be easy for these social issues for 
a Christian to be set aside. The pro
gram succeeded in increasing awareness 
and .raising significant funds to aid 
OXFAM AMERICA.
This week at Forbes Street
by Annie Patterson
The Forbes St. Gallery show this week 
presents work by Leah Barcanic, Nancy 
Richman and Emil Sauer.
Seduction, suction and other sweeping 
movements is the title of a series of vac
uum cleaners by Leah Barkanic. Her 
pieces are very powerful. They present us 
with the image of woman as a vacuum 
cleaner, a sex object, a trapped housewife. 
The frustrations and anxieties from this 
typical womans role eminate from her 
pieces. Her recent pieces are molded paper 
shapes of vacuum cleaners. Leah makes 
the paper pulp bath and lays it over actual 
cleaners. Once it dries, the mold is lifted 
off. Some are painted red, pink and white. 
The image dictates hints of anatomical 
structure which give the form animated 
qualities.
Nancy Richman is showing black and 
white drawings. Her emphasis is on ana
tomical structures, movement and energies 
of line and wrapped form. A couple of
smaller pencil drawings of fruit, in partic
ular, show this wrapping sensation: having 
string dictate the form and motion of line. 
Her fascination with anatomy comes 
through in each piece. How does the 
form evolve on paper? How can the 
lighting effect the froms line and motion? 
These are Nancys fascinations and ques
tions as she investigates each object and 
form.
Emil Sauer, an Arizona man, has been 
inspired by the Arizona landscape, the 
main theme of his work in this weeks 
show. Hes showing aluminum reliefs and 
his recent steel sculptures. Emil responds 
to the steel plate as he goes along, using 
simple cuts, leaving a natural patina. The 
Arizona canyons, mountain ranges, and 
cloud formations, all suggested in Emil 
Sauers work, have been this artists 
inspirations.
This weeks show should prove to be a 
very powerful one. Dont miss CUTTING 
THROUGH THE SURFACE,Maybe it's time to read the writing on the wall
by Paul Karm in
There is a special discipline here at CMU 
that is responsible for a unique wealth of 
opinion and information and yet it is never 
taught in a classroom.
Im referring of course to the pervasive 
graffitti present on any (and every) empty 
space on campus. Ill bet you didnt know 
that foreign languages are taught on bath
room doors and yet they apparently are. 
For example, this cryptic message appear
ed in Donner Niz Gafiz Giz Ziz Schiz 
Wiz Niz Wiz Okiz? to which the reply 
was Biz Quiz??
Other manifestations of this trend are 
seen in lecture halls, bathroom stalls and 
elevator walls. For instance Bob is a 
whale and Sev is a load. The key to 
translating these unusual exchanges is un
clear or, as another graffittist gropingly 
asked Who or what is a Sev and why is 
he/she/it a load? also, a load of what? 
This seems to be a problem for the Cog
nitive Psychology Dept. I recommend a 
SI,000,000 grant to decipher these words 
of unknown knowledge. After all Wolf 
eats tuna cookies could be a cure for 
cancer in code or Ato is a grate could 
be intended as a personal insult to the 
Physics Dept. Its even possible that Bob 
is a whale, Frodo lives, and Joel is a 
mole might constitute Mr. Kennedys 
foreign policy if he is elected this fall.
The following exchange seems to reveal 
a depth of thought indicative of recent 
concern about the draft: Draft beer 
not peopleWhat a waste of good beerBeer can't shoot a gun or drop a bomb 
Nor can beer die.
A common plea was I refuse to kill." 
One pragmatic student commented I 
refuse to die. A third notion was that we 
should Draft graffitti writers or Draft 
bigots, they're stupid enough to kill for 
their oil.
However .the topic of the day.everday. 
is clearly sex. One considerate person sug
gested that we help erect an architect 
while another more snotty one wrote over 
the urinal that why are you looking here, 
the joke's in your hand.
As for the women on campus one 
man claims that CMU girls are the beasts 
but he is refuted by another who says that 
they are just guys who worked their balls 
off. I beg to differ with both of these jo
kers. Appearing on a broken Coke mach
ine was the helpful message that Banging 
doesnt help to which the reply was it 
only increases population. And finally, 
one gent claims that Im kinky but is 
shown up by a cohort who says that 
youre stinky too.
One religious member of the campus 
community undertook a brief study of 
divinity and concluded that There is no
hereafter but just in case I am bringing a 
change of underwear. Pragmatic fellow.
As for CMU itself one soul commented 
Ive been shattered while another wrote 
that This machine is like CMU, you put 
your money in and get nothing out. Pro
bably some wretched lunar scuba diving 
major dissatisfied with his lack of job 
offers.
Even that ultimate of sacred cows, graf
fitti writers themselves, get pasted by the 
following commentary. People who write 
on bathroom walls are assholes, myself 
excluded.
As I end this article and fade away the 
plaintive wail scribbled on a Doherty bath
room Who erased the grafitti! rings 
noisily in my ears.
1ALONE AND PREGNANT?111A caring, confidential friend.11LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH11562-0343. Free Pregnancy Testing.11Evening Hours Available1
^Ve'
^ vS' A*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-March 4,1980
An Exclusive Tanning & Fitness Salon 
For Men and Women
3521 Forbes Avenue (Oakland), Pgh., PA 682-1149
TAN ALL YEAR ROUNDDAY OR NIGHT 
TAN QUICKLY AND SAFELY
CREATE A HEALTHY, SUCCESSFUL, AND SEXY IMAGE 
TRAINED PERSONNEL TO GUIDE YOUR PROGRAMS
USE OF MODERN EXERCISING EQUIPMENT
PRIVATE AND COMFORTABLE TANNING BOOTHS, EXERCISE AREAS 
AND SHOWERING FACILITIES
MEET PEOPLE AND DEVELOP NEW FRIENDSHIPS
TWENTY (20) VISIT MEMBERSHIPONLY *49.00
PRESENT THIS ADVERTISEMENT TO ONE OF OUR ATTENDANTS AND XOU WILL BE ENTITLED 
TO ONE FREE TANNING SESSION AND A ilO.OO MEMBERSHIP DISCOUNT
continued from page 9
Interviewer: So you dont have a back
ground, or not?
BILL: Uh, no. I was manufactured in 1975 
with a set of false memories.
MICHAEL: I wondered about those incon
sistencies....
Interviewer: Could we talk about songwriting. a little bit? First of all, are Bill and 
Michael going to be doing more of it? 
MICHAEL: Weve written some already. 
BILL: Yeah, theres a bunch of new stuff 
in the works for the Decade.
Interviewer (to Hugh and Tracy): Does 
each of you write your own stuff, or do 
you collaborate or both?
TRACY: Well, you have to have an idea. 
MICHAEL: Usually one person will have 
an idea for a song and at least one part, it 
pretty much just goes from there, the band 
arranges it. Its never the same as it starts 
 out.
Interviewer: What about lyrics?
J HUGH: Lyrics I think have always been
one person, I think every song has a one 
person lyric...TV Daydream  TV Brain 
| is really two different songs that we put
I together, one is Tracys and one is mine.
! Interviewer: Do you think consciously
about hooklines, do you say to yourself 
Now this has to be a catchy little thing... 
HUGH: Sure. I guess I never imagine songs 
that dont have them..
TRACY: And if you want to make some
thing attractive...
HUGH: I guess usually that comes first, 
before you know that youre writing a 
song youre walking along and theres 
something thats helping you walk. And 
you remember it, it stays with you, follows 
you around, you give it a name.
MICHAEL: Well, thats how it happens 
with you, it doesnt happen that way with 
me...Ive never written a song and lyrics 
together, its always seperate. Something
IRON CITYSCHUTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMP ALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER UGHT MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHLITZ UGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM  2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS  PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 45 MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK 
STROMS HEINEKEN LIGHT One different 16 02 6 pk featured etch wee*
SCHTZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROM s * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES SPECIALTY ITEMS FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
ddddddddddddd ZcuRm59 ddddddddddddddd
SHOPS, INC
BASS ALE England
 OORT HANSA Germany
 SAM MIGUEL Ptipmes 
SPATENBRAU Germany
 ST PAUU GIRL Germany 
PILSNER URQUELL CiecH 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
DASXXEOUIS Mexico 
WURZ BURGER Germany
 HARP LAGER Ireland 
LOWENBRAU Germany 
O'KEEFE ALE Canada 
DINKEL ACKER Germany 
TECATE Mexico
 ISENBECK W Germany 
IRYSTALL Italy 
MACKESON EnglandmkFcupJJ BE mkFcFFJx
3901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
KIRIN Japan 
PERONt Italy
 RIGNES Norvxay 
BECKS Germany 
HOFBRAU Germany 
ZYWIEC Poland 
KRAKUS Poland 
SUPERIOR Mexico FUS I fcRS Aus traita 
HEINEKEN Hoiand
 MOLSON ALE Canada
 PAULANER Germany 
GOSSER Auatria TANKARD London
 UNION W Germany 
PALE ALE London OINKEL Germany
 WARFTEINEL Germany
"Give us your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to be free at CARNIVAL!"
'Would you kill to be free?
funny will happen to me, and Ill say well, 
I have to write a song about this, this is 
when youre supposed to write a song, so 
then I write something down. Then later 
I fit it with some music.
Interviewer: So are you going to leave 
Pittsburgh, or in some way try to find a 
wider audience?
HUGH: Well definately try to find a wider 
audience, we may be leaving Pittsburgh, 
but thats not certain, where well go. 
TRACY: Well be here for the summer, for 
sure. *
HUGH: Definately, so if youre staying for 
the summer youll be able to hear us some 
more.
TRACY: Hopefully the Decade will have 
their-Giant Eagle club opened.
HUGH: Yes. The Decade bought out the 
Giant Eagle (supermarket) on Atwood 
Street, and theyre going to turn it into 
The Decade II which will be something 
in between the Decade and the Stanley 
Theatre. A midsize space for bands of 
middle popularity.
Interviewer: OK. Whats coming up? This 
issue will be out on the fourth.
HUGH: The Dark at the Lion Walk. 
BILL: And theres a benefit coming up on 
the twelfth of March for the Lion Walk gal
lery, which has been very good for pro
viding space and is one of the only places 
in town you can hear these bands regularly. 
Interviewer : There should be a really good 
question that I could ask you all to wrap 
this thing up...
BILL: Well, if we think of one... 
Interviewer: Would you kill to be free? 
MICHAEL: No, never...
BILL It wbuld depend, free of what? 
HUGH: Define freedom...
TRACY: Kill what? Would you?
HUGH: Its always a question worth 
asking yourself...

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1980-TARTANPage 13
How Do You Score?
Editors note: Below, purely for your enjoyment, the TARTAN has published some 
of the results of the Valentines Day Do you wake up the Neighbors? survey. The 
survey, as you may remember, concerned the sexual activities and relationships of 
CMU students. Please keep in mind that even these edited responses are highly uncon
trolled and are not to be considered, in any respect, to be an accurate sample of the 
student population of Carnegie-Mellon University (but we think it does give a little in
sight into their creativity).
Question 3: Number the following in order of physical attraction: face, hair, eyes, legs, 
teeth, chest, hips, buttocks, shoulders, other.
Face ranked Number 1 for: Females Age: 18,19,20. Males Age: 19,20,21.
Question 4: Number the following in order of emotional attraction: sense of humor, 
sensitivity, spontaneity, adventurousness, cynicism, individuality, eccentricity, kindheartedness, thoughtfulness, considerateness, other.
Number 1 answer. Males Age 18: considerateness, Males Age 19: Sensitivity, Males Age
20. Individuality, Males Age 21: Sensitivity. Females Age 18: Considerateness, Females 
Age 19: Sensitivity, Females Age 20: Individuality, Females Age 21: Sense'of humor.
Question 7 * How often do you have sex?
22 out of 48 responded: three or more times a week.
Question 13: At what age did you lose your virginity?
Average Age for males: 16.9, Average Age for females: 17.75.
Question 16: What is your greatest sexual fantasy?
13 out of 57 responded: group sex. 13 out of 57 responded: never fantasized.
Question 17: What is your favorite sexual position?
16 out of 33 respomded: missionary. 10 out of 33 responded: female superior.
Save A Vampire!
by Frank Lanjello
Surely you havent forgotten last Friday nights showing of DRACULA. Well, now 
you, too, have the opportunity to save a vampire, aJc.a. the Allegheny County Blood 
Bank. Due to an unusual winter shortage of all blood types, Residence Life and Alpha 
Phi Omega are sponsoring C-MUs second blood drive of the school year. Individuals 
interested in donating should drop by the Morewood Rec Room at their convenience 
on March 17 or 18 (but sometime between 1 and 7 PM).
As an added incentive for student organizations, A Phi O is offering a party to the 
organization on campus with the largest membership percentage donating. To enter: 
Submit a roster of the total membership of your organization and a list of prospective 
donors to A Phi O at the Skibo Information desk. Names will be checked at donation 
time.
What more could any vampire ask?March 17 & 18
(Morewood Rec. Room (1-7 pm)
The wish for further, greater sacrifice - all well and good.
But what of the sacrifice demanded here and now? The best 
gauge of ones grasp on a concrete and possible future (as 
distinguished from an illusion) is ones grasp on the 
present.
Daniel Berrigan
about AVCO's role in our Nation's most advanced Air and Space system's projects. Due to recent awards of many long term contracts AVCO offers many CHALLENGING positions to ENGINEERS.
Join The Total Concept Effort
Join the People of AVC0...the leaders in the AEROSPACE race. AVC0 offers opportunities
in these exciting engineering DISCIPLINES: aerodynamics engineers electronic engineers mechanical engineers systems engineers Slight test engineers*flight mechanics engineers thermodynamic engineers mathematicians  physicists
or write to: 
MR. PETER C. DOWD. EMPLOYMENT MANAGERiAVCO -SYSTEMS
If you are ready to accept a 
leading role in your Nation's 
Aerospace efforts see our 
representative
ON CAMPUSMon.f Mar. 31201 LOWELL ST* WILMINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS 01887
an equal opportunity ompioyer M/F
CAREER At AVCO SYSTEMS/it Wilmington, Mass.
---i

---------------------------------------------------

PRO GUAM
SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY
IR883
WEDl
fh
SOUNDS OF POWER I DO THE ROCK
Begin your week with the Mxi up yuor morning with 
Lofd. Tune in for contem^tu. 
porary and traditional Chris
tian music with Eric But
ler.av v
THE MORNINGLORY 
ELEVATOR MUZAK SHOW 
Songs which are guaranteed 
to satisfy your euphoric 
need.
ARTHUR COBB 
Sounds of inspiration-hymns, 
anthems, gospel as well as 
contemporary Christian mu
sic. Spend Sunday morning 
with Jesus and A.C.
HIGH ON THE HEAP
Traditional music for a sound 
environment.
FEAR OF MUSIC 
A special blend of progres
siveness for those suffering 
from Rockphobia.
AI
VIBRATIONS
Start your afternoons with 
the mellow modern and pro
gressive jazz sounds with 
your host Kevin J. Kelley.
MIKE THE FLY 
Rock and Roll Grom 
other side of the fence.
the
di %/
MALLEABLE RADIO
Larry Berger features all 
kinds of music. You fonn it; 
it forms you. Your requests 
are welcome.
THE SPECIAL EDITION OLLIE 
Kevin Buckson highlights Rock and Roll can over come 
your afternoons with a touch any Monday hangover, 
of progressive jazz.
HA
AIRPLAY - biweekly
THUNDER ROAD 
From the Stone Poney to the 
Rolling Stones. Rock, rock, 
rock.
KEVIN KOST 
At the Discotheque1 
(It Lives!)
ANG. D.
Whether it's funk or jazz, 
I've got what you need.
A V
MARK PLESKOW
Music for a Saturday night
two days removed.
! v
THE MAKE BELIEVE 
BALLROOM 
It don't mean a thing, 
if it ain't got that swing.
Big Band Jazz with George 
Gee.
t PROFILES ON PARADE Sfc
THE MIDNIGHT 
RENDEZVOUS 
. . . progressive jazz? soft 
rock? soul?. . . Call it what 
you will. . . its still three 
hours of mellow madness.

CHAS
The best in free form music 
from folk to fusion, with a 
little comedy to keep you 
smiling. It's fun for the 
feeble minded.
A<n m v
ECLECTIC RADIO 
Join Herb Stencil for a 
scenic 11trip through the 
music world, and find the 
true meaning of eclectic.
is %/ m a
SOUND, COLOR, AND 
MOVEMENT 
Mike and A.J. Jazz and 
black consciousness.
MARCI
More of the same but differ
ent.
MERLIN
Leave the Rolling Stones 
behind. Put on your avantgarde sneakers and fly.
Al?
DUSTIN
Jazz for a short time.
is
STEVE PETERSON 
The fire to water impulsive 
music show, featuring music 
from folk to rock.A i!
AIR FRED
Mostly odds n' ends with a 
rock theme.
A ^ %/

---------------------------------------------------

INES DA YSCHEDULE.
THURSDAYFRIDA YSATURDAY
COUNTRY
st of new & old coun>stern, featuring Top 
intdown.
MOON HORIZONS 
Rhythming smooth into 
Renaissance, easing into Gen
esis, quickening into flashes 
of Gentle Giant, then rhyth
ming smooth.
ES APPALACHIAN 
tfSHINE
mey string band music 
ign&ie Raitt.
THE BEST OF NOW 
AND THEN 
The guru brings you the best 
of today's rock and new 
wave along with golden old
ies from the years gone by.a i  d a '
THE RUDE AWAKENING 
Steve Seive mobilizes your 
auditory senses with new 
wave, bluegrass and good ol' 
rock n' roll music.
RADIO FREE NEPAL 
With Sid Lang.
DAVE & CHARLIE 
Wake up after a hard days 
night to the Fab Two.
THE UNION
Join Jane Lipton for the best 
rock and roll from the 50's 
and the 80's.
nivA vAli
IDTRAXES
A
Jp you through humpnth the finest in nonerciai folk-rock and 
rv rock.w *I!
LEEANA
Three hours of classical mu
sic to wile away an after
noon.
THE MAD HATTER 
More Eclectic Rdio with 
lots of progressive rock, jazz, 
new stuff, comedy-especially, 
He looks fatly butch."
ADV*
JAZZ WITH SCARSDALE 
The best thing to happen to 
Saturday since the invention 
of the weekend.
1
LIMIT
and turn on with the 
d progressive jazz with
in
JIMMY
Songs that were made loud 
to be played loud.
CHARLY
Purveyor of rock in its more 
psychedelic forms.
&AA
SAE, TrAii
PAUL ZSCHACK
More jazz for a Saturday
afternoon.
A
5LOPPY JOE & 
VEREAUX SHOW 
deviate duo perform 
urghs No. 1 live comew, with a sprinkling of 
fssive jazz.
JACQUI WOOLEY 
Traditional and contempor
ary folk music of Appalachia 
and the British Isles.
nii
THE GEORGE AND JON AIRPLAY - biweekly
SH0W THE MUFFIN MAN
Celebrate your weekend Start your Saturday nights 
every Friday until graduawith some avant-garde, some 
tion. Countdown begins. . . pop other music to take
1ATALE
an't believe our eyes!
Ali
S YOUR BEEF?
I Q
DENTON
posit, no return. Total> freshing unrecyclable
MILT ORKIN
Progressive music for the 
mind expansion connois
seur.
MAD JOHN'S MUSICAL 
MOUNTAIN 
Tune in to Mad John for a 
mixed up montage of musical 
moods.
ROCK N' ROLL HIGH 
The biggest of all possible 
sounds with Steve Farrell.
AlA
THIRSTY EAR (bi-weekly)
AD
FOREIGN SUBSTANCE 
New music for the modern 
youth.
THE WIZARD
Tune your mind to the mid
night/morning music of the 
Wizard. Sonic sound to blow 
your head away. . .
THE PADDED ROOM 
Commit yourself.
vADAS
: FOR THE MOMENT 
er youre studying or 
wj, music will get you 
fa the night.
BOB RUSSELL
You say it - I play it. More
music to pull all-nighters by.
STEVE
Space wandering music.
ADAlA V
JOHNNY GUNTHER 
special oddities in the grave
yard hours.
V
ROCK
%
COMEDY
V
PUNK
T A tTALK <s-Hw5V
Funded by Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Looking For a
CHALLENGE
This Summer?
CHALLENGE YOURSELF AT OUR SIX WEEK SUMMER COURSE
WHO GOES?College students with at least 2 years of school 
remaining
WHERE? H. Knox, Kentucky, 35 miles south of Louisville
WHEN?The summer officer training programs iast 6 weeks and 
are offered in 3 different cycles:
1st Cycle 
2nd Cycle 
3rd Cycle
19 May - 26 June 
9 June - 17 July 
7 July - 14 August
HOW MUCH PAY? Approximately S500 plus travel expenses, room and
board
WHAT SUBJECTS?Leadership 
Map Reading 
Self Defense 
Rifle Marksmanship
Physical Fitness 
First Aid 
Land Navigation 
Drill & Ceremonies
COLLEGE SCHOLARSHIPS?
WHY GO?
Students may compete for full tuition 2-Year 
Scholarships.
Completion qualifies (but does not require) you to enter 
a program leading to an Officers commission in theActive Army, Army Reserve or Army National Guard.
For Immediate Answers to Your Questions Call:
UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH - CARLOW
CPT Knightly ' 
624-6197/6198
C.M.U. - C.C.A.C. - CHATHAM
CPT Sparks 
578-2205/2196
DUQUESNE - ROBERT MORRIS - LAROCHE - POINT PARK
CPT Bradley 
434-6664/6665

---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
Greek Sing is the Season's soaring success
by Mignon Rabineau
Unfortunately, Carnegie Music Hall 
doesnt seat about 4,000 people, for the 
only problem with Greek Sing is that more 
people cant attend. The combination of 
talent, imagination, and comedy makes it 
one of the most entertaining nights of 
the year.
The opening spot is always tense, out 
the brothers of Theta Xi handled it well, 
performing some popular songs from 
the 50s. Little Darlin  was done es
pecially well, and it loosened the audi
ence up with a touch of humor.
Billy Joels hit Piano Man was next, 
done by Delta Tau Delta. Authentic stag
ing, in spite of problems with the spotlight, 
helped to set the mood for this popular 
ballad.
Third on the program was Delta Upsilon, 
performing selections from Camelot. 
Elaborate costumes coupled with a beauti
ful rendition of songs lended itself to a 
most enjoyable act. The soloists added 
extra attraction, and they were well recieved by the audience.
Kappa Kappa Gamma and Beta Theta 
Pi teamed up for the second year in a row
with selections from South Pacific. Enthu
siasm and effective lighting created a good 
atmosphere for Bali Hai, the highpoint 
of the performance.
A unique approach to Greek Sing came 
with The Mixer done by the brothers 
and friends of Kappa Sigma. Re-enacting a 
typical Saturday night at CMU, they 
combined popular songs with appropriate 
scenery, providing a very entertaining act.
Alpha Tau Omega treated us this year to 
their own version of Jamaica Jam. The 
rowdiness of a limbo routine, contrasted 
by beautiful singing in Jamaica Farewell, 
created a nicely diversified show.
The first half closed with snappy chore
ography and strong harmonies, as the 
brothers of ZBT performed selections from 
Singin in the Rain. The wide variety of 
songs, including a great rendition of 
Moses, was lively and enjoyable.
After intermission, the sisters of Delta 
Gamma took to the stage with Meet Me in 
St. Louis, complete with turn-of-the cen
tury costumes. Vocally, they were stronger 
than ever, and the whole show was very 
nicely done.
Pi Kappa Theta and Chi Omega burst
ZBT is Singin in the Rain'
Deathtrap comes to Heinz Hall
Ira Levins Deathtrap, Broadways hit 
suspense-comedy, continues at Heinz Hall 
tonight through Saturday, March 8.
Starring in Deathtrap will be Donald 
Barton as Sidney Bruhl; Patricia Guinan as 
Myra Bruhl; Michael McBride as Clifford 
Anderson; Marian Baer as Helga ten Dorp; 
and Casper Roos as Porter Milgrim.
Deathtrap is the latest in a long list 
of successful productions from the pen 
of Ira Levin. The central character in his 
play is Sidney Bruhl, a glib, middle-aged 
playwright whose latest hit, a thriller, was 
18 years ago. He is currently suffering from 
an acute case of writers block and is en
vious about a script that is a guaranteed hit 
written by a brilliant newcomer, Clifford 
Anderson.
Bruhl gets the idea that he should kill 
the youthful playwright and steal his work. 
What follows is a rapidly paced, twisting 
and turning plot that leaves the audience 
on the edge of their seats.
Levin has always had a flair for the 
diabolical and horrifying. A prime ex
ample is his novel Rosemarys Baby, 
which is credited with pioneering the 
occult deluge that has poured out of stages, 
screens and publishing houses in the past 
few years.
Rosemarys Baby and Deathtrap 
are but two of the examples of Levins
Editors note
/ve only been at this job for three weeks 
now , and Ive already uncovered some of 
the pleasures and pitfalls that come with 
the Entertainment section. There are the 
pleasures of discovering that Pittsburgh has 
more to offer than steel and championship 
teams, and that CMU features some of the 
area's most promising talent on a regular 
basis. (See last issues preview on David 
Balls new play at the Lions Walk, or this 
issues report on Debbie Pollack, pg. 22) 
There are also the pitfalls inherent in such 
a subjective undertaking. At times, it has 
been very difficult to walk the line between honest expression and personal 
taste, and I expect the public to help keep 
me in line.
The Entertainment staff already has 
some proven, worthy talent: Melody
Mazzie and A lan Spew continue to be ex
emplary editors of theater and music, re
spectively.
But the staff must grow! There will be 
an Entertainment staff meeting for all old 
and new members Wednesday night at 7:45 
PM in Room 50 Skibo. If you are inter
ested, contact me at 661-0115, or just 
drop by.
Richard Gorelick
terrifying handiwork. The native New 
Yorker was 22 years old when he wrote 
his first novel, the award-winning thriller 
A Kiss Before Dying. When he was the 
age of 25, he wrote his first play, the 
adaptation of Mac Hymans No Time for 
Sergeants. His plays include the comedy 
hit Critics Choice, the musical Drat! 
The Cat! and the thriller Veronicas 
Room.
Among his novels are Rosemarys 
Baby, The Stepford Wives and the 
international bestseller, The Boys from 
Brazil. All three of these novels were 
made into films. Rosemarys Baby had 
the distinction of selling five million 
paperback copies in this country alone.
When Deathtrap opened on Broad
way on Feb. 26, 1978, there had been a 
scarcity of thrillers on Broadway for 
several years. Previously such hair-raising 
shows as Dial M for Murder, Ten Little 
Indians, Angel Street, Witness for the 
Prosecution and Sleuth. have done their 
best to send spine-curdling screams 
throughout a delighted Broadway audience 
eager to be scared to death.
Show time for Deathtrap is 8 PM 
nightly, with matinees on Thursday and 
Saturday at 2 PM. Tickets, ranging fro SI 1 
to $5, are on sale at the Heinz Hall box 
office and Kaufmanns department store.
DTD serves up Billy Joel's "Piano Man"
onto stage next with selections from A 
Chorus Line. An energetic display of sharp 
choreography and strong harmony, the 
finale One sparkled.
SAE followed, once again displaying 
their outstanding talent with songs from
H.M.S. Pinafore. Fantastic singing, with an 
air of professionalism, made them, as 
always, one of the most impressive groups 
of the evening.
In top hats and tails, the sisters of KAT 
performed a musical revue of MAME, 
which included two very moving solos. It 
was, all in all, a classy act.
Pilam and friends brought down the 
house this year with their original Son 
of CMU Songs. These compositions, with 
outstanding lyrics set to popular music, left 
the entire hall in hysterics.
In a Tribute to Steven Foster, PiKA 
gave an impressive musical performance. 
Dressed in minstral costumes, they sang the 
entire show acappella. A real display of 
musical talent, their show was virtually 
flawless.
The evening came to an end as the
sisters of DDD presented selections from 
Sweet Charity. Rythm of Life was high
lighted with good staging and solos, and a 
Rockettes style kickline to If They Could 
See Me Now provided a lively close to 
another great Greek Sing.
This year, the proceeds from the show 
are being donated to build a school 
through CARE. Chairpersons Dawn 
Clawson and Gary Fienberg are to be con
gratulated for coordinating the entire 
show. Also to be congrulated are the many 
participants, whose time, energy, and dedi
cation in the past few months helped to 
make the evening a success.
Winners
Mixed Competition
1 ) Phi Kappa Theta and Chi Omega 
2) Beta Theta Pi and Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Fraternity
1 ) Sigma Alpha Epsilon
2) Delta Upsilon
3) Pi Kappa Alpha 
Sorority
1) Delta Delta Delta
2) Kappa Alpha Theta
IITravatore: Winning Opera
by Timothy LeVan
James McCracken, tenor, and Marilyn 
Zschau, soprano, brought the Pittsburgh 
Opera through last months performance 
of Verdis 11 Trovatore.
Mr. McCracken and Ms. Zschau, as 
Manrico and Leonora, successfully played 
the two prospective lovers who are finally 
brought together, and then, separated 
Mr. McCracken unquestionably sang his 
role with exactness, musicality and 
assurance. No other singer, save Ms. Zschau, 
appeared to have this assurace.
Theatrically, Mr. McCracken and 
Ms. Zschau were most believable, making 
all movements look natural, unplanned and 
purposeful. Mr. McCracken used his 
travelling music to his best advantage 
(that is the non-musical interludes on 
which he moved, gestured, etc.).
Abid Fazuh, playing Count di Luna, 
gave an evening of passable singing and 
acting, but always with a certain lack of 
inspiration of any sort.
Azucena, played by Sandra Warfield, 
was perhaps the most disturbing singer on 
stage. Her performance was replete with 
melodramatic acting, which would have 
been in keeping with early Tebaldi. Her 
acting training was obviously ignored in 
her studies. Wife of McCracken, perhaps 
she came with the contract. 
do, sang an entertaining captain of the
palace guards. His opening of the opera was 
very enjoyable. Mr. Williams vocal richness 
was most welcome and fitting for this 
role, as was it for this seasons Commendatore in Don Giovanni.
Inez, layed by Antonia Mascaro, 
pleasingly sang her comforting few lines to 
Leonora with believable sincerity. This 
writer always wonders why this small 
role was not scored for a mezzo rather than 
a soprano (similar to Lucia comforting 
Santuzza in CavaUeria Rusticana).
The opera chorus (including CMU stu
dents John Absalom and Robert Ferrier) 
made a convincing chorus, and as a whole, 
sang with ensemble precision not always 
heard by operagoers.
The opera orchestra played very well 
and seemed never to overpower, but always 
most supportive. This was largely due to 
Anton Coppola, conductor of the orchestra.
The same set was used for the entire 
opera, as in earlier productions this season. 
With a few additions and Changes in light
ing, the set was not boring, but became 
possiole too familiar. Fortunately, the 
most changes took place at the operas 
conclusion, namely the prison scene, com
plete with barred door.
The four-act, three-intermission opera 
was planned very well, with reasonably 
short intermissions

---------------------------------------------------

CAMPUS O NVEIVolumeu 80l,0,
SOFT LENSES
PAIR
For a no-obligation 
appointment, call
281-1100
QUALITY. Our lenses are the very same as those 
selling elsewhere for up to S300.
VALUE. Our low price includes: high-quality soft 
contact lenses, adjustments, training, orientation, 
carrying case, and as much eye care as needed for 
90 days. Hard contact lenses available (aS35 a pair. 
Price includes tints. Master Charge and Visa cards 
accepted. ^ ^
PRECISION
 CONTACT LENS ASSOCIATES INC
Where You Get More Than Meets The Eye 
Park Bldg., 14th floor, 355 5th Ave., Pittsburgh. PA 15222
COLLEGE STUDENTS within one 
year of completing B.S M.S. or 
Ph D. in physical sciences, 
mothematics or engineering. 
Financial aid available for 
those candidates completing 
finalyear of degree with sub
sequent training period in 
nuclear theory and prototype 
reactor operation. Research 
and design positions also exist. 
Receive $700 per'month up to 
JO months plus other benefits 
on your way toward achieving 
your degree and a commission 
in tFo naval reserves Com
petitive applicants must 
possess U.S. citizenship and be 
under 28 years of age Send 
resume and college transcripts 
to Mr. Jim Snyder, Suite 711, 
1000 Liberty Avenue. Pitts
burgh, PA 15222. Telephone 
644 5896
Sally Dunn portrays SHELLY, a visitor to the farm, in Sam Shepard's 1979 Pulitzer Prize winning 
drama, BURIED CHILD, being performed by Pittsburgh Public Theatre now through March 30 at 
Allegheny Theatre.
by Bob Henry
An exchange in Sam Shepards Buried 
Child, currently being done by the Pitts
burgh Public Theatre:
Whats the meaning of this corn, Tilden?
Its a mystery to me. 
You and me both, Tilden old buddy. 
There's a whole lot in this play thats part
ly a mystery to me, but in the end its this 
bit of mystery that makes me like this play 
so much. PPT is doing Buried Child until 
March 30, and if you want to see a good 
production of a good script by all means 
get on down to the Allegheny Theatre.
Most of Shepards plays seem to exist 
in a world of twisted or altered reality, a 
semi-reality. Buried Child is no exception. 
At the same time that we have a realistic 
yarn about a young mans homecoming 
and a family revealing the truth about a 
long-ago killed and buried baby, we have 
enough symbolic and comic elements to 
turn an already macabre and disturbing tale 
into something much more than just a 
story something closer to a vision.
PPTs show is directed by Bill Ludel, 
who does an excellent job combining the 
different styles and moods; styles that 
range from slapstick to symbolism, and
moods that range from humor to horror. 
Ludel also makes the correct and wise 
choice of playing the funny moments and 
lines in the script as funny. Amid the weird
ness and the sometimes mild and sometimes 
not so mild depravity are instances of tre
mendous hilarity, and Ludel lets us know 
were supposed to find them hilarious. And 
while doing so keeps the show gripping, 
entertaining and intriguing, losing none of 
Shepards ominous and symbolic over
tones.
The cast of Michael Coerver, Sally 
Dunn, Lanny Flaherty, Stanja Lowe, Vic 
Polizos, and William Youmans also does an 
excellent job. My personal favorite was Fla
herty as the partly nuts son/brother/father 
Tilden, but that is not to slight the others. 
The cast works together well and is simply 
a pleasure to watch.
Pulitzer Prize winner Buried Child has 
been praised widely and said to encompass 
the disintegration of the American fam
ily, the dilemma of modem day Amer
ica, America and its fabric and its myths, 
and more. About it Shepard said simply, 
1 wanted to write a play about a family. 
I m just glad PPT did such a good product
ion of it.
PPT gives life to Buried Child
Barbosa-Lima
By Timothy LeVan
The internationally-known Brazilian gui
tarist Carlos Barbosa-Lima will appear in 
concert at 8 PM Monday, March 10 at the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall in Oakland and will 
also teach a guitar master class at CMU on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, March 11 and 12.
Since hisNew York debut in 1971, 
Barbosa-Lima has made extensive tours 
of North America, South America and 
Europe. His programs, often include his 
own transcriptions of works by Scarlatti, 
Handel, Weiss, Bach and Haydn. In addi
tion, he has edited and fingered several 
contemporary works dedicated to him by 
such distinguished comtemporary compo
sers. as Francisco Mignone, Leonardo Balada (Professor of Composition at CMU), 
Guido Santorsola. Albert Harris, John 
Durate and Alberto Ginastera. He was an 
Artist-in-Residence at CMU, where he 
taught for three years (1974-77).
Born is Sao Paulo, Barbosa-Lima began 
studying guitar at the age of seven and 
made his concert debut at the age of twelve. 
He has studied under the great Andres 
Segovia and Uruguayan guitarist Isaias 
Savio.
The guitar master classes will be held 
from 3 PM to 5:30 PM and from 7:30 to
10 PM in the Faculty Lounge of the 
College of Fine Arts on the CMU campus.
Mr. Barbosa-Limas program will include 
works by Balada, Bach. Scarlatti, Haydn, 
Santorsola, Ponce, Mignone, Laure, and 
Finastera.
For more information on the concert 
and master classes, contact the CMU music 
department at Ext. 2373.
a*
M0STEK Will BE ON CAMPUS
A world leader in MOS integrated circuits and systems, headquartered in Dallas. Texas, will be 
interviewing here soon Check with the placement office for more information
Mosteh. 1200 W CrosCy Hoad. Carrollton Texas 75006 We are an equa! opportunity employer mlnv
M05TEK

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1980TARTAN-Page 19
Forbert was Alive (and cooking!) On-Arrival at Duquesne
by D. Stims
Two nights earlier, before 3300 enthu
siastic fans in New Jerseys Capital Theatre, 
Steve Forbert had performed the same 
basic show he presented to the approx
imately 400 students crowded between 
the pillars of Duquesne Universitys main 
ballroom on February 25th. The change 
in audience size apparently had little if 
any effect on Forberts performance. 
Combining his metrical, lyricism with a 
unique folk delivery style, Forbert man
aged to create an entrancing stage persona 
that kept the satisfied crowd at rapt 
attention. He introduced two new songs, 
but for the most part, the entire show was 
based on material from his last two albums, 
Alive on Arrival and Jackrabbit Slim.
The whole essence of Steve Forberts 
appeal lies in his singing. While the sound 
of his voice often seems out of synch with 
he boyish looks, the addition of his lyrics 
and the music provided by an innocuous 
back-up band makes just the right formula 
for entertaining folk rock.
Forbert opened his set with an upbeat 
rendition of Going Down to Laurel.
He kept the show fairly mellow through 
the next three numbers; Thinking, 
Let It Shine and Complications. 
With Youre Darn Right, Forbert and his 
band began to xook. At least I think they 
were trying to. Throughout the show an 
erratic sound system kept the volume 
levels of various instruments fluctuating. 
From the impression the back-up band 
gave on Monday night, I think Steve 
Forbert would be better off ditching them 
all (except the drummer). They had stage 
presence but their contribution to Forberts 
leading rhythm guitar  work was usually 
no more than rudimentary rock and roll 
muzak. That he could carry the show 
all by himself was clearly shown in his 
small solo acoustic set.
Performing in the classic Bob Dylan 
style with acoustic guitar and harmonica, 
Forbert seemed an almost too polished and 
practiced performer as he ran through 
versions of  Alone, What Kind of Guy 
Am I? and a replay of Thinking. He 
closed his solo set with an impromptu 
15 seconds of Gene Vincents Be-Bop-ALula, one of the best parts of the show.
After a few songs with the back-up 
band Forbert turned up the volume to rock 
his way through the climatic closing song 
Say Goodbye to Little Joe. After an 
obligatory encore of his current hit, 
Romeos Tune, Forbert tore into a 
smoking medley of his own Cant Win 
If you Dont Play and Chuck Berrys 
classic Carol. His all out attack on the
lyrics of Carol was clearly a peak of tne 
show.
And now, since any Steve Forbert 
review would not be official without quot
ing some lyrics I will treat you to some 
very familiar ones. '
Meet in the middle of the day, let me 
hear you say, everythings okay. Let me 
smell the moon in your perfume! 
Schumann performed
by Timothy LeVan
A program of Robert Schumann was 
performed last Monday evening, Feb. 18 
by the Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Players.
Thomas Fay, ef the Pittsburgh Sym
phony, opened the program with Three 
Romances for Oboe and Piano (op. 94).* 
His snperb control of breath, exact artic
ulation and musicality made the entire 
work very enjoyable. Ralph Zitterbart, 
piano, accompanied Mr. Fay with equal 
excellence, further heightening the musical 
whole.
Beatrice Krebs expertly sang the song
cycle, Frauenliebe und Leben (op. 42). Ms. 
Krebs performed the cycle with amazing 
success. Her diction, vocal interpretation, 
stage presence and overall quality resulted 
in a lieder performance on the level of the 
great lieder interpreters of our day.
Again, Mr. Zitterbart equaled the level 
of professionalism of Ms. Krebs, and to
gether the two gave a performance only 
possible of consummate musicians.
The Sonata for Violin and Piano in D 
minor(op. 121) was performed by Eugene 
Phillips. Mr. Phillips played the Sonata
continued on p22
IF YOU MISSED 1957
If you missed 1957 you missed the Russians launching Sput
nik I into earth orbit. You missed seeing a young singer 
continue his rise to the top of the record industry with a song 
called Jailhouse Rock. You missed the ballyhooed introduc
tion of a car called Edsel. And you missed the birth of an 
industry when a group of talented young engineers and 
scientists formed the nucleus of Fairchilds 
semiconductor operations.
Though you missed the beginning, 
you havent missed the future. Tal
ent, enthusiasm and hard work p can take you as far today as it did 
in 1957. Maybe even farther. Today, 
with the vast resources of our parent company, 
Schlumberger Limited, Fairchild is committed to 
technological leadership and innovation. And while 
were pioneering new technologies, we are also creating
new career enrichment and em-VS?ployee benefit programs.
Fairchild has exciting career openings on 
both the West and East Coasts. 
Well be on campus in the next 
week or so and would like to talk 
to you about the future. Yours 
and ours. Visit your placement center for the time and 
place. Its an opportunity you won't want to miss.
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company
YOU WONT WANT TO MISS NEXT WEEK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANMarch 4, 1980
She was married at 13.
She had four kids 
by the time she was 20. 
Shes been hungry and poor. 
Shes been loved and cheated on. 
She became a singer and a star 
because it was the only way 
Ife she knew to survive.
SISSY SPACER TOMMY LEE JONES 
"COAL MINERS DAUGHTER 
also starring BEVERLY DANGELO LEVON HELM Screenplay by TOM RICKMAN 
Based on the Autobiography by LORETTA LYNN with GEORGE VECSEY 
Executive Producer BOB LARSON Produced by BERNARD SCHWARTZ 
Directed by MICHAEL APTED A BERNARD SCHWARTZ Pnxluction A UNIVERSAL PICTURE U
PG PMMTW. GUOMtt SUGSSTtO
SOMi MA* WOT BE lUTTMU FO* CHftJMDt
Opening March 7 at a theatre near you
Forbes Street show has skill and personality=
by Alex Czajkowski
The artists personality is obviously 
a key part to the artists work, but this 
isnt always as apparent as it was at the 
last Forbes Street Gallery show. Each of 
the three artists had extremely different 
facets of their personalities illustrated, 
and therefore each one used a different 
style and medium and had a different at
titude about their work. It was very easy 
to tell which was Cramers, OLearys or 
Weigles.
Christine OLearys hand-dipped 
paper pieces are soft and quiet. Most of 
the works had a colored thread grid either 
above or below the paper she made. The 
pieces without grids, however, were the 
exceptional ones, hh was green paper in 
the form of overlapping sine curve areas 
on a staff, jj was also appealing, made 
of colored paper stripes, and, like all her 
work, consistently refined and calm.
Gregory Cramer contrasts greatly with 
the laid-back style of OLeary. He
strives for fun, outrageousncss, and sur
prises in his sculpture and weavings. His 
weavings are what may make one think of 
as tacky because of their often brash 
colors, obtuse forms, and strange design. 
He has many glass sculptures, most of 
which really amount to little more than a 
great sense of surprise. When he makes 
these, he arranges his glass, mainly Coke 
bottles and strips^ in a slump oven, 
leaves them overnight and then, in the 
morning, surprise! Sometimes he takes 
these one step further, like White Caps, 
Black Licorice, or Token Black, in 
which he adds paint to create a symbol. 
Its not until one looks at his bronze 
works that one can see his occasionally 
biting sarcasm, his overall sense of humor 
and his true talent. One such piece was 
Dont Worship False Idols with cast 
noses supplicating themselves before 
a nose on a pedestal with the artist on 
the periphery, facing the other way. 
Another great piece was Games People
..I
ELECTRIC BANANA
live rock bands 
3887 Bigelow Blvd. 682-8296
FRIDAY, MARCH 7 STEPPIN' OUT 
SATURDAY, MARCH 8 SIDEWINDER
Play, consisting of a base plate of cast 
aluminum and two strangely formed fig
ures, one movable and the other fixed. 
These can be arranged to reflect the 
moods ofa couple; not speaking, walk
ing out, kissing, or horny.
James Weigles work is all very serious. 
A few of his lithos refer to passages from 
the Bible that he was particularly moved 
and inspired to do. These are not religious 
art works, only their subject is in any way 
biblical. Weigle experiments in multimedia art and uses new and inventive
tastic colors, images and ideas. The color of 
Let There be a Firmament..., an electric 
blue, was inspired by his first jet trip, 
with the biblical connotations added on 
later. His still lifes are, perhaps, the best 
exhibited this semester, particularly Sun
lit Still Life in which the sunlight is lit
erally dripping on the canvas via oil paint. 
The effect is stunning.
Overall, this show had some of the best 
pieces shown lately in the Gallery. Weigles 
talent, skill, and imagination is immeasur
able. Cramers bronze sculptures are exceltechniques of processing to produce fanlent and OLearys paper art is unique.Flash: UFO seen tonight
By Alan Spero
Power-rock pounds back into Pitts
burgh, as Englands UFO returns to the 
Stanley Theater tonight for an evening 
of blues-based, high energy heavy metal. 
Opening for UFO will be Chicago-based 
newcomers, Off Broadway.
UFO is currently touring in support of 
their latest Chrysalis release, No Place To 
Run. This is the first album to feature 
their newest member, lead guitarist, Paul 
Chapman. Chapman joined UFO last year 
(1978) at the beginning of December when
A Philip Pelusi haircut for $5.00!! 
Register for haircutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop at our salon 
in Squirrel Hill or the Bank Center.
previous guitarist, Michael Schenker, sud
denly decided to retire from the world 
of rock. Schenkers decision to quit came 
at the same time that Chapman was break
ing off from his first band, Lone Star.
When UFO last played Pittsburgh, it had < 
been only four shows previous that Schen
ker had left. So last years Stanley concert 
was more or less Chapmans debut with 
UFO. Now, after a year of touring and the 
release of a new studio album, UFO should 
prove to be a solid rock and roll unit.
UFO and Off Broadway are being pre
sented at the Stanley by Dicesare-Engler 
productions. Tickets for tonights show 
are still available at the Stanley theater box 
office, all National Record Marts, and 
Kaufmanns department stores. The show * 
begins at 7:30 PM.
0108-III? mhxjS'

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1980-TARTAN-Page 21
Count Basie interviewed on WRCT's Make Believe Ballroom
Hear George
by George Gee
His eyes have that faraway look, 
yet he has both feet firmly planted in 
the music world that he and his band 
are so successful in. In 1927, he left his 
hometown of Kansas City with high 
hopes of starting a dance band and 
visions of success. He knew what he 
wanted  relaxed and hard-driving 
swing along with his own personal 
tinkling on the piano. And today, 
fifty-three years later and decades after 
the so called decline of the Big 
Bands, audiences throughout the world 
can hear this introduction, Ladies 
and Gentlemen, please welcome Count 
Basie and his Orchestra!!
And that was the case, a few months
ago, when the Count and his dynamic 
Big Band visisted the Carnegie Music 
Hall in Pittsburgh for a benefit con
cert. As a representative for WRCT-FM 
and The Make Believe Ballroom, I was 
honored with a personal and intimate 
interview with Count Basie, in which 
we discussed many interesting and 
relevant topics. He discussed his aspira
tions, the late great Duke Ellington, 
the future of the Big Bands, and many 
more.
The interview will be broadcast 
today, March 4th, on The Make Believe 
Ballroom (WRCTs original Big Band 
show) along with a Basie music spe
cial. Thats tonight, starting at 6 PM on 
WRCT-FM 88.3.
Herzog and Heart of Glass impress Carnegie audience
by Michelle Weinberg
Film director Werner Herzog, leading 
figure of the New German Cinema, ap
peared Tuesday night, February 19, at 
the Carnegie Institute to speak about 
his work after the showing of his film, 
Heart of Glass.
Briefly, the film revealed the tale of a 
glass factory in Germany which has lost 
the secret to the manufacture of its rare 
ruby glass. This loss catapulted the town 
into a frantic search for the secret. When 
at last the factory owner discovered that 
human blood was the necessary ingred
ient, he committed a murder and set 
the factory on fire. The central charac
ter, a shepherd with prophetic powers, 
predicted such destruction after . time 
crumbles and the clouds race.
Indeed this concept of mans blind 
impulse to self-annihilation is a central 
theme of Heart of Glass. The precious 
ruby glass can be made only by draining 
the vital human life source, blood. The 
closing scene, similarly, is a parable about 
three men alone on a rock in the middle 
of the ocean, unaware that the world is 
round. They set out in a rickety boat in 
search of the abyss. Herzog seems to sug
gest that all that exists for humans is 
their eternal jouney toward an inevitable 
death or the abyss.
As a rather bizarre artistic gesture, Her
zog submitted the entire cast, save the 
shepherd, to hypnosis. This gave the acFreni at JCC
Internationally acclaimed lyric so
prano, Mirella Freni, will sing in Pittsburgh 
for the first time tomorrow night. March 
5, 3:00 PM at the Jewish Community 
Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. in Oakland. 
The Italian born soprano will be brought 
to Pittsburgh by the Y Music Society and 
Rolando Bozzolla who has already given 
Pittsburghers their only opportunities to 
hear Miss Frenis colleague and close friend 
Luciano Pavarotti sing to capacity audi
ences. Miss Frenis recital will benefit the 
newly established Enzio Pinza Scholarship 
Fund at the Department of Music, Univer
sity of Pittsburgh.
In addition to singing leading roles with 
La Scala, Metropolitan, Paris and Vienna 
State Opera houses, Miss Freni has 
appeared with the Berlin, Vienna, and 
London Symphony Orchestras under 
Herbert von Karajan and Georg Solti, on 
film in Madame Butterfly and on television 
in Faust and the Marriage of Figaro.
Featured on the program will be arias 
and lieder by Giordani. Rossini, Verdi 
DuParc. Faure, Charpentier. Schubert, 
Mozart, and Rachmaninoff.
For ticket information call the Mirella 
Freni Benefit Concert at the Y Music 
Society, 521-8010.
tors a rather zombied or vacant attitude 
at all times which at first, this reviewer 
found frustrating. However, it served to 
accentuate the slightest action and in
flection as was Herzogs intent. He stated 
before the film began that the art of the 
film was to expose the usual by placing 
it under an intense, probing light. The 
expressionless, slow-motion movement and 
'dialogue of the actors provided that 
sharp insight into the town. Herzog later 
described the townspeoples actions as a 
collective insanity or as sleepwalkers 
who walked into foreseeable disaster, 
again reinforcing the theme of mans 
ultimate end in the obliteration of his 
own consciousness. It is interesting to 
note that the all-seeing shepherd was 
not subjected to hypnosis, thus attach
ing to the hypnosis a greater significance 
than Herzog himself cared to admit.
Visually, Heart of Glass provided a strik
ing array of dramatic images. Figures sur
faced and retreated into black voids, fan
tastic and surreal landscapes emblazoned 
the screen, wild looks and exaggerated ges
tures were all products of Herzogs master
ful skill. Herzog allows this fastidious 
attention to dramatic detail to pervade 
every aspect of a film. In Heart of Glass he 
carefully cut all music from the scenes 
involving humans, so that their action was 
played amidst silence, save for their own 
breathing and knocking about of things. 
In contrast, the landscape imagery, accom
panied by emotionally charged music 
seemed to possess more animation than 
any of the human characters. It is this skill 
of the designer, to raise and lower degrees 
of intensity of color, sound, and light that 
makes Herzogs imagery most exciting.
Herzog himself seemed to be a character 
of great intensity. The tales of one bizarre 
filming expedition after another reavealed 
the power of the poet to transform the 
everyday int6 the extraordinary. It seemed 
quite natural that the mystical landscapes
and deranged characters should emanate 
from such a man. He described his own 
history, leaving home at the age of nine, 
becoming is own film producer during his 
early teens, and eventually heading a new 
movement of German Cinema. Herzog 
feels a strong connection with his German 
culture. He stressed the importance, also 
that filmmakers in Germany now are a 
fatherless generation with virtually no 
precedent in their own country due to the 
decimation of Germany in World War II. 
Herzog related that the shambles left in 
Germany remain vivid to this day, and thus 
pervade his film work as in Heart of Glass 
with its almost too obvious analogies to 
World War II.
Herzog, when questioned as to the 
motivation for creating such unusual films, 
replied, Something goes through my sys
tem like lightning, and I am not alone 
anymore. If I can do that to someone, then 
I can end my life in peace. Until then, you 
will see me around.
When does 
training slop 
me doing start?
At Scott, we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work. Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal, achievement ot that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes trom 
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon 
sibility. and accepting accountability.
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads join us, they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skillsto 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop1? It never does 
Scott Paper Company is an equal opportunity 
employer, m/t
Contact your placement otlice lor information
SCOTT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-March 4,1980
CMU students are "Bustin'out all over" Steel City
by Richard Gorelick
Most Fine Arts Majors will be driving a 
cab by the time they are thirty, (letter to 
the editor; March 20.1979).
Jack Klugman, Barbara Feldon, Andy 
Warhol, Sada Thompson, Lenny and 
Squiggy.......(familiar CMU litany)
There seems to be a growing amount of 
evidence against the former sentiments, and 
some distinct indications that at least a few 
students currently attending CMU will join 
the ranks of Carnegie Techs famous 
alumni.
Usually, these students can be seen per
forming right here on campus; at coffee
houses, mainstage and Studio Theater 
drama productions, voice recitals or when 
you least expect it (or want it), in the Kil
tie Cafe. These campus performances are 
almost invariably free and, considering 
inflationary entertainment prices, should 
be taken full advantage of. Once in awhile, 
however, CMU students branch out into~ 
the Pittsburgh Community, sometimes in 
commercials and modeling, and sometimes, 
as with Debbie Pollack and Michael 
Connor, in professional theater.
Debbie Pollack is a Sophomore Musical 
Theater major at CMU. She has 
amateur and professional theatrical training 
including a role last summer in the OffBroadway revival of Big Bad Burlesque. 
She answered a newspaper ad for the Footlight Dinner Theaters casting call for their 
current musical revue. Along with Junior 
Voice Major, Michael Connor, she won the 
part, and the show, A Tribute to Richard 
Rodgers, has been extended through 
March 15th at The Old Allegheny.
The shows producer, Chris MacLaine, 
obviously pleased with the performances 
and professionalism of CMUs students, has 
decided to cast the remainder of the sea
sons shows with CMU talent. The next 
show will feature Pollack, Brigadoon star
Gregg Kirsopp, and Musical Theater 
Majors, Robbie Marshall, and John McDan
iel.
The show currently at The Old Alle
gheny is an energetic and dazzling review 
of Richard Rodgers legendary work. The 
first half is comprised of his material with 
Lorenz Hart and includes somewhat .less 
familiar, whimsical songs, reflecting Harts 
uncommercial, intelligent talent! While 
these songs were not all immediately recog
nizable to the audience', the companys
CMU's Debbie Pollack
original and spirited interpretations give 
them their entertaining quality. Pianist 
Roseanna Irwins hilarious rendition of 
To Keep My Love Alive is a perfect ex
ample of the companys deft transforma
tion of obscure songs into entertaining 
theater. The song includes some of Harts 
most clever lyrics, but depends on produc
tions like these to get the exposure it 
deserves.
Because of their unfamiliarity, songs that 
were given more dramatic context in the
shows first half were generally the more 
successfully pulled off numbers. Credit 
must be given to director Jim Mulkin for
his clever and functional (the stage is small) 
direction. Jim, by the way, is a CMU grad
uate student.
The second half of the show 
focuses on Rodgers collaboration with 
Oscar Hammerstein. It was this pairing 
that gave American Musical Theater such 
classics as Oklahoma, Carousel, South Pac
ific, and The Sound of Music. Songs like 
Climb Every Mountain, Nothing Like a 
Dame, Adelweiis, Oh, What a Beautiful 
Morning, and June is Bustin Out All 
Over consistently prompted applause and 
sighs from the appreciative audience, and 
to be frank, the four performers could have 
performed these numbers through gauze 
and they still would have received fabulous 
ovations. I can assure you, however, that 
they were performed very professionally and 
energetically, and deserved every last bit 
applause they got.
Debbie Pollacks Everybodys Got a 
Home But Me was an excellent example 
of her impressive range. After she had 
already convinced the audience of her 
belting ability and vivacious stage presence, 
she produced this dramatic torcher and 
convinced them of her acting ability.
Michael Connor proved that he was a 
voice major with his version of Blue 
Moon, and displayed considerable acting 
ability with his solo from The King and I.
The shows other female, Roberta 
Izenson has a very pleasing, well trained 
voice, and handled all of her songs very 
professionally. The shows narrator, and 
fourth performer, Chris MacLaine showed 
his ample eomedic and vocal talent through
out the evening. Unfortunately, the other 
three performers werent allowed any 
dialogue or narration, or even an intro
duction, which cheated out of meeting 
winning personalities.
It might also be mentioned that the aud
ience I keep referring to in this article was, 
for the most part, in their forties and fif
ties, and the show was directed to their 
tastes. A CMU student who makes the trip 
down will recognize the obvious talent 
that was put into this show, but they might 
have trouble appreciating the music and 
atmosphere of another era.
The Footlights next production will be 
a review of current Broadway Musicals, and 
should be more directed to collegiate 
tastes.
There is a show every Friday and Sat
urday Nighf, and one may see the show 
only for $6.00, or choose the Dinner Thea
ter Package for $14.95. Reservations can, 
and should, be made by calling The Old 
Allegheny at 281-0803.
While this is a somewhat expensive eve
ning, it could be an ideal way to spend a 
special celebration.
Schumann
continued from p. 19
with accurate interpretation. The work, 
however, seemed to be played with little 
original interpretation or exciting musical
ly.
Ms. Krebs closed the program with 
selected lieder of Schumann. She pro
grammed contrasting songs and sang aL of 
them with great excitement and feeling. 
Each of the songs was performed with the 
fullest expression due the mini masterworks 
of one of the best Romantic Lied com
posers.
The final Carnegie-Mellon Chamber 
Players Concert in the 1979-80 season will 
be dedicated to the music of Gabriel Faure. 
The program, originally scheduled for 
April 14, will take place on April 21 at
8 PM in Alumni Concert Hall.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys
(XKcmriMS.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
II00
Mon. Tue*. Wed -10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sot. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
NO
APPOINTMENTS
ICEIAMMIR10 EUROPE
0M A _________
BIG BIRDANDALOW EWE
*499*533
Roundtrip from 
New York 
to Luxembourg
Roundtrip 
from Chicago 
to Luxembourg
Mo restrictions
Confirmed reservations* free wine with dinner, cognac after* 
no restrictions on stays to 1 yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid 
from L'.r. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and 
prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase 
tickets in the I .S.
See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN 
Icelandair P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.
Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the 
toll-free number in your area.
Please send me: ? An Icelandair flight timetable.
? Your European Vacations brochure.
Name_______________________________________________________________
Address____________________________________________________________
City_________________________________________________________________
n
StateZip_
L.
ICELANDAIR
Still your best value to Europe

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans finish up and down season at .500
The Carnegie-Mellon basketball team 
finished its 1979-80 campaign on a losing 
note, falling to Bethany, 80-70. and to 
Washington and Jefferson, 76-67, to bring 
tfjeir final record to 11-11 overall and 7-7 
in the conference. This marks the first time 
in four years that Coach Dave Maloneys 
Tartans have not logged a winning record.
The Tartans entered their final home 
game of the season against Bethany hoping
to play the spoilers role. A victory over 
the Bisons would have dashed their hopes 
of winning the conference title without a 
playoff. But, it,was not to be, as the first 
five minutes of the game saw Bethany run 
off to a 14-2 lead that the Tartans could 
not recover. The crowd at the Jimmy Starr 
Memorial Fund game saw the home squad 
fight back to within five points late in the 
game but the foul shooting of the Bisons
Kendell Hayes and Fred Gongola held off 
the final charge.
Hayes was the games top scorer with 23 
points for the Bisons. He was followed by 
Gongola who had 16. The Tartans balanced 
scoring attack was led by juniors Buddy 
Hobart and Dave Hofmeister who had 18 
and 16 respectively.
The season finale for the Tartans came 
two days later at Washington and Jeffers5n 
and, although the end was much the same, 
the means were quite different. On the 
strength of the inside play of Hofmeister 
and Larry Hufnagel, the Plaid ran off to a 
fifteen point lead midway through the first 
half and held a seven point edge at inter
mission. The second half, however, was all 
Presidents with Junior Mike Pratt hitting 
from the perimeter and Mike Withrow and 
Bob Yakovac ruling the boards. When the
dust had settled, Withrow had 22 points 
and 14 rebounds, Pratt had 16 points and 
Yakovac had 15 points and 15 boards. Huf
nagel was the Tartans leading scorer with 
twenty points and Hofmeister came away 
with 14 rebounds.
Despite the disappointing team record, 
several Tartans accumulated impressive in
dividual statistics. Larry Hufnagel, a unani
mous all-Conference choice, was fourth in 
scoring (17.5), third in rebounding (9.6), 
and fourth in field goal percentage (59.5). 
Senior Mariano DeFilippo led the confer
ence in assists, averaging 6.4 a game and 
has earned a spot as an Honorable Mention 
on the all-Conference team. Dave Hofmei
ster was among the league leaders in re
bounding and free throw percentage and 
Dan Donahoe was seventh in the league 
in assists.
CMU vs BETHANY
Dave Hofmeister (no. 34) makes a strong move to the basket against Bethany's Kendall Hayes in the 
Jimmy Starr Memorial Fund game.
CMUFGFT-APtsBethanyFGFT-APts
Hufnagel42-210Hayes79-1323
Hofmeister64-716Paige11-23
Hobart74418Winovich52-212
Belechak26-710Fenton10-32
DeFilippo00-00Gongola48-816
Donahoe42-210Peters10-0'j
Lewis10-02Ferns20-04
Novak20-04Culp41-29
2618-2270Vogelhuber3349
2824-3480
CMUvs W&j
CMUFGFT-APtsW&JFGFT-APts
DeFilippo20-04Yakovac71-215
Donahoe30-06Pratt716
Belechak51-111Westphal40-18
Hobart40-06Damico51-211
Novak30-06Withrow102-222
Hufnagel76-720X Meneely20-04
Hofmeister60-012356-976
307-867Hufnagel and Hayes unanimous all-Conference picks
One thing can be assured when scanning 
the selections for the 1979-80 All Presi
dents Athletic Conference basketball 
teamthere are a few surprises!
No less than four members of this 
years star-studded quintet were also first 
team picks in 1978-79, while this seasons 
fifth starter was a second-team choice a 
year ago.
And, because the 79-80 version of the 
All-PAC-8 squad is stocked with hold-overs 
from la$t season, there is little doubt or 
question as to the quality or ability of this 
contingent.
Heading the list is one of die two 
unanimous selections for first-team laurels, 
Bethany College forward Kendall Hayes. 
Though also a first-teamer a year ago, it 
seemed as though PAC-8 roundball fans 
did not fully realize Hayes value and 
talent until this season.
The 6-6, 195 pounder from Alexandria, 
Va., tallied 17.6 points/game; picked off a 
league-leading 11.3 rebounds/game; shot 
53.8 percent from the field and 80.3 per
cent from the free throw line to rank 
among the top ten in both categories, and 
still found time to feed teammates for 3.4 
assists/game.
For his efforts. Hayes  who also sur
passed the 1,000-career point plateau this 
season was selected by the loop's coaches 
as the Player of the Year" in the PAC-8.
However, this year's dream learn" has 
another loop Most Valuable Player in its 
midst, as Carnegie-Mellon forward Larry 
Hufnagel  Hayes' immediate predecessor 
to the award  was the only other unani
mous pick on this season's squad.
Hufnagel  in addition to his PAC-8 
MVP honor a year ago  is an Academic 
All-American and 1,000 career point scorer 
who. like Hayes, dominated the loops sta
tistical categories.
The 6-6. 195-pound Pittsburgh native 
pumped in 17.5 ppg, averaged 9.6 rpg and 
ripped the cords at a 59.5 percent clip 
from the field and, again like Hayes, was 
also a PAC-8 Player of the Week during 
the course of the campaign.
Perhaps no one individual received more 
attention  or, from an opposing teams 
perspective, notoriety  than Allegheny 
College center Eric Lindberg.
At 6-8, 200 pounds, Lindberg, of Fin
ley ville, is the loops most imposing player; 
however the notice he recieved was gained 
from much more than his mere physical 
presence.
After gaining second-team All PAC-8 
honors as a frosh, Lindberg is now a three
time first-team choice, and with good rea
son.
Despite the burden of sometimes being 
double-teamed, he still averaged [5.6 ppg, 
and was second only to Hayes in rebound
ing with a 10.5 mark. With all that atten
tion, however. Lindberg still paced the cir
cuit in field goal accuracy throughout the 
season, ending with an all-time league best 
of 65.8 percent!
Though the talents of the clubs front
line leaves little doubt, a catalyst is still a 
vita! ingredient. And in loop annals, there 
is none better than Lindberg's sidekick 
(and Hufnagel's former prep teammate). 
AC point guard Jim Wheeler.
The prototype of the point guard.
Wheeler was the spark-plug of the Gator 
attack as he averaged a team-high 16.2 ppg, 
but still managed to deal out 6.1 assists 
per game, second best in the circuit.
Second only to Lindberg on the all-time 
Allegheny career scoring list  as both sur
passed the magical 1,000 point mark this 
Allegheny career scoring list  as both sur
passed the magical 1,000 point mark this 
season  Wheeler, at 5-11, 165 pounds, 
also converted 87.0 percent of his free 
throws.
Lending credence to the theory of the 
value of a point guard is the success of the 
79-80 campaign for Case Western Reserve 
University.
In its best season in a half-dozen years, 
First Team
the secret to the Spartan success was really 
no secret at all  guard Kenny Jackson.
The lone underclassman among four 
seniors on the first unit, Jackson, like 
Wheeler, makes things happen.
Listed among the top ten in scoring 
throughout the season, he eventually 
caught  and in the loops last week  sur
passed Dave Damico of Washington and 
Jefferson to capture the circuits scoring 
derby with an average of 18.4 ppg.
A shooter, Jackson, 5-10, 165 pounds 
and a Canton, Ohio native is a marksman, 
as well. His 88.7 percentage mark from the 
charity stripe will attest. A team player, 
too, he doled .out 4.1 scores/game to Spar
tan teammates.
individualSchoolPos.Ht.ClassHometown
Kendall HayesBethanyF6-6Sr.Alexandria, VA
Larry HufnagelCarnegie-MelionF6-6Sr.Pittsburgh
Eric LindbergAllegheny6-8Sr.Finleyville
Jim WheelerAlleghenyG5-11Sr.Pittsburgh
Ken JacksonCase Western ReserveG5-10So.Canton. OH
Second Team
individualSchool
John ColomboJohn CarrollG-F6-2Fr.New Philadelphi
Dave DamicoWashington & JeffersonF6-2JrFox Chapel
F red GongolaBethanyG6-2Jr.Wheeling, WV
Brad EllisHiramG6-0Jr.Geneva, OH
Mike PrattWashington & JeffersonG540Jr.Uniontown
Honorable Mention
IndividualSchool
Dave ContardiAlleghenyF6-6Jr.Pittsburgh
Pete WinovichBethanyC6-7Jr.Pittsburgh
Bob YakovacWashington & JeffersonF6-5Sr.Monessen
Mariano DeFilippoCarnegie-MelionG5-7Sr.Harrisburg
Jerry McCaffreyJohn CarrollG6-1So.Emerson, NJ
Pat CurranThielF6-1JrFrankiin

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-TARTAN-March 4,1980
West Va. Wesleyan takes f irst indoor soccer crown
Creating, manufacturing, and marketing the test systems that keep electronic technology growing is the business of Teradyne, the worlds high-tech leader in automatic test equipment (ATE).Every bit as sophisticated as the technology it must judge, ATE presents an especially exciting challenge to the most creative minds.What keeps Teradyne in the forefront of this industry, and makes it such a rewarding place to work, is the fact that here creative minds are actively sought out and encouraged to sparkle.The nature of our work demands it.To imagine your future at Teradyne, check the Placement Office and talk to the Teradyne representative coming soon to your campus.
Martin Woodstock scored twice and 
Anthony Sicignano, once, to carry West 
Virginia Wesleyan past the University of 
Pittsburgh, 3-0, in the finals of the first 
annual Carnegie-Mellon Indoor Soccer 
Tournament held last Saturday in Skibo 
Gym. The tourney which brought together 
fourteen teams from Western Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, and West Virginia, was Pittsburgh's 
first and, based on the reactions of the part
icipants and spectators, it was very well-re
ceived.
Play began at 8:30 Saturday morning 
to decide which four teams would advance 
to the final tournament. In division I, which 
include six Presidents Athletic Conference 
teams and Slippery Rock, three teams rose 
to the top: Bethany Case Western and the 
Rock. It looked as if tournament director 
Gene Klein would have to use his peculiar 
bonus point system (second cousin to Pete 
Rozelles Wild Card System) to determine 
who would make the playoffs. All became 
clear, however, when Carnegie-Mellon 
stunned Bethany. 2-1, to eliminate the Bisons.
The picture in Division II became clear 
much quicker. West Virginia Wesleyan, 
participants in last years NAIA soccer play
offs, and Pitt each played nearly flawlessly 
as they rose above the other teams in the 
division.
In the semifinals Pitts defense, who had 
given up only two goals all day, played well 
again as the Panthers shut down Case, 1-0, 
and WVW took an early three goal lead and 
held on to beat the Rockets. 4-3. That set 
up the final game between Pitt and West 
Virginia Wesleyan and. as they had earlier 
in the day when WVW won. 1-0. Woodstock 
and goalie Bimba Basara led the Bobcats to 
victory.
Tartan skaters
by Pat Crump
The CMU Tartans claimed a 9 to 7 vic
tory against St. Vincent College in Greensburg late Wednesday night. The scoring 
started early with newly acquired center, 
Mike Lynch, tipping in Captain Joe 
ONeills point shot with only 3 minutes
ice St.Vincent, 9-7
expired. St. Vincents managed to break second of the night. CMU led five to one. 
the CMU defense only 30 seconds later. After regrouping between periods, St. 
tying it at 1 to 1. But the rest of the third Vincent came out flying, scoring a goal 
period belonged to the Tartans. Outshootonly two minutes into the second period, 
ing St. Vincent 14 to 11, Mark Licata Matt Maddalene answered St. Vincent, by 
scored two goals, veteren Rick Smith scoring CMUs sixth goal unassisted. But 
tallied one and Mike Lynch scored his continued on page 26
CMU goalie Dan Carlin making a save as a Bethany forward looks for a rebound

---------------------------------------------------

March 4,1980-TARTAN-Page 25
Banner forces CMU to forfeit chance at title
by Wes Seeley
Carnegie-Mellon soccer Coach Gene 
Klein first spoke with Athletic Director 
jini Banner last December about holding 
an indoor soccer tournament. In early Jan
uary, Banner agreed to the idea and gave 
Coach Klein permission to use Skibo Gym 
for last Saturdays tournament. He also 
gave Klein full responsibility for inviting 
the teams, hiring officials, building nets, 
buying trophies, etc. In effect, the Ath
letic Department would have nothing to 
do with the tourney.
Coach Klein contracted twelve teams 
to play with his two CMU teams (com
prised of Varsity and freshman players 
who play indoor soccer with him each 
weekend), and he hired officials with 
NCAA and Major Indoor Soccer League 
experience. He bought the trophies, arr
anged to have Pittsburgh Spirit donate the 
ball, and bought the materials to build the 
nets. He and his players transformed the 
gym from a basketball court to an indoor 
soccer arena.
Kleins final responsibility was to deter
mine the rules of the tournament. One of 
the rules was that each team had to file a 
nine-man roster by February 15; there are 
roster limits in all tournaments of this 
type, and each of the teams, including 
CMU, filed its roster.
Coach Kleins rosters were filled with 
returning members of CMUs Varsity 
soccer team because he wanted to give his 
players some game experience during the 
off-season. This meant that several 
people who had played on the weekends 
with Klein would not be able to pl.y in 
the tourney. For this reason, Keith Hordatt was not placed on the rosters. Hordatt
went to Klein to complain, and Klein ex
plained that there were only 18 spots on 
the two rosters, and he felt that he should 
give them to the Varsity and freshman play
ers. Hordatt was still not satisfied and, last 
week, he went to Jim Banner and asked to 
be placed on the roster.
On February 29, the day before the 
tournament, Banner called Coach Klein 
into his office and told him that Klein 
could not keep anyone from playing in 
Saturdays games. In effect, he said that 
anyone who arrive at the gym with a pair 
of shorts and a CMU ID card had to be let 
into a game upon request. Klein protested, 
saying that the tournaments rules called 
for a roster limit and he could not let any
one not on the roster play without forfeit
ing all of the teams games. Banner soon 
ended any discussion of the matter by pre
senting Klein with three possible courses of
action:
(1) - Let Hordatt, and anyone else
who wanted to, play;
(2) - Call off the tournament;
(3) - Resign, and Banner would sub
sequently call off the tourna
ment.
After showing no interest in the tourn
ament for two months, Jim Banner had 
told Klein, less than twenty-four hours 
before the tourney was to be held, to run 
it his way or not at all. Coach Klein would 
have to either call the twelve teams he in
vited and tell them that the tournament 
had been cancelled, or forfeit his own 
teams games. He chose to keep his respons
ibility to the teams that he had invited 
and held the tournament as scheduled.
As it turned out, CMU unfortunately 
did not make it to the indoor soccer playcontinued on page 26
L
STAMI CA#H|
HHNOW
I
YOUR. UNWANTED OR DISCARDED CLASS RIN6S 
WORTHWONey JO
ME/ CASH N NOW"CALL ME FOI^ FASTinstant CASH !!> fyis.oo 
vK& up DBE Any class Ri n///
 CALL DAVE687-1320- INSTANT CASHBALLOONS BUTTONS T-SHIRTS
IMPRINTED 
WITH YOUR ADVERTISING MESSAGE 
FOR:
Special Events, Banquets, Parades, Sports Events, 
Fund Raisers, Rallies and Celebrations.
COMPLETE LINE OF IMPRINTED ADVERTISING 
PRODUCTS INCLUDING PENS, GLASSWARE, 
KEYCHAINS & MATCHBOOKS.
(Rush Delivery on Many Items)
John Robbins Co.1801 Forbes Avenue
Catalog on Request 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15219 412/471-7548
ARE GOING TO WASHINGTON uns summer
Journalists, analysts, econo
mists, pollsters, candidates, 
hypesters and special interest 
groups will also converge on 
Washington in the election 
summer of 1980.
But perhaps the greatest 
opportunities are reserved for 
the serious students who can 
study the political process upclose at The Amencan Univer
sity, in: government, political 
science, business & government 
relations, communications, jour
nalism and public relations.
A few hands-on internships 
and work study programs are 
still available. Summer study also 
offers ideal opportunities to earn 
credits for electives and to further your degree program in Will you be there? 
the nation's capital. A Qfflce o{ Summer
 , rSfS9 w I60?11 SUmmer ) '' ^ American Universityof 1980, the Washington expen/ ^ Washington. D.C. 20016
ence at A.U. will provide / \
the inquiring student with a lot's 
more than "academics."
Talk with your academic/* 
counselor and call or ,'J 
wnte now for infor/' 
fnation about the / D Rease 961x1 couxse Summer of '80 / ^edule ? Please send
in D C. There will information about:_
never be another/ -------------------------------
opportunity like I 
this until 1984.
ThekblaS.eh\^- lTni\ersitv
\ The Amencan University , is an equal\ opportunity/affirmatve action university
Name_
Address.
/\ Phone.
I --------_l______
-Zip,\__ I
*{ ___I_

---------------------------------------------------

U.S. GOVERNMENT 
OPPORTUNITY OPENINGS FOR
 Scientific  Technical  Medical
 General Management Graduates
Uniformed Military Divisions of the Department of the Navy 
have positions open for scientific, technical, medical and 
general management graduates. Positions available include:
SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL MEDICAL/GENERAL
Aviation (Pilot Trainees Business Administration
and System Maintenance) Communications
Computer Technology Legal
Engineering (Civil/Marine/ Medical (RN/MT/MD/DDS) 
Mechanical/Electrical) Human Resources
Nuclear Power Supply
Ocean Systems
QUALIFICATIONS: Minimum BS/BE degree (or college 
seniors). Federal regulations require that applicants be no 
more than 27 years old (adjustable up to 3 years for Veterans) 
to ensure full opportunity for career advancement Relocation 
overseas or domestically required. Applicants must pass a 
rigorous mental and physical examination and qualify for a 
security clearance. |
BENEFITS: Management Trainees can expect an excellent *
benefits package which includes 30 days annual vacation. j
generous medical/dental/life insurance coverages and other -
tax-free incentives Dependents' benefits are also available A 
planned promotion program is included with a commission in 
the Naval Reserve.
PROCEDURE: Register with Career Services/Placement Of
fice or call (800) 242-3736 for interview, or write a letter stating 
qualifications or send resume to DEPT of the NAVY, Code 10, 
1000 Liberty Ave . Pittsburgh. PA 15222
SCHOOL-BOYS
A WIDE SELECTION 
IN TODAY S 
BOLD AND VIBRANT 
COLORS
COMPLETE PAIR OF SPECTACLES 
20% DISCOUNT 
WITH STUDENT I.D.
SPECTACLES,
<XX> o
3529 forbes avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Carnegie-Mellon Univ., Pittsburgh, PA 
Wherrett Rm., Student Union 
Thurs.. Mar. 6; 2 to 5 P.M.
Seasonal Performers being auditioned for 
KINGS ISLAND. Cincinnati, OH KINGS DOMINION, Richmond, VA 
CAROWINDS. Charlotte, NC Hanna Barbera s MARINELAND. LA CA 
SI90 to $230/week SINGERS  DANCERS  INSTRUMENTAUST 
Round-trip airfare paid for hired performers traveling over 750 miles To work at the parks 
KINGS PRODUCTIONS. Cincinnati. Ohio 45219
C CcHMJ* KHk|v Prmll* tl\
Kings Productions, the largest producer of professional Live Shows 
for theme parks, will be auditioning at
Page 26-TARTAN-March 4,1980
Intramural Night 1980 scheduled for March 14
by Leslie Weiser
Save March 14 on your calendar for 
Intramural Night 1980. There will be tro
phies and awards given for outstanding per
formances in all intramural sports through
out the year. Also the championship games 
in the major and the intermediate basket
ball leagues will be played that night.
Handball starts next week. The comm
issioner is Mr. Birdy. You can reach Mr. 
Birdy at 578-2214.
It isnt to late to get a team in for Water 
Basketball. You can call Commisioner Gregg 
Werbaneth at 681 -7162. Sign up for practice 
times in the IM Office. Games will be play
ed on Thursday nights at 8:30 and 9:15.
Table Tennis participants, please get 
your games played and turn in your scores 
to Commissioner Jim Satrape at 578-4327.
This is the last call for co-rec table ten
nis entries. They are due March 6. The 
Commissioner is Jim Satrape.
Team call Pool schedules are now out 
and can be picked up in the IM Office. The 
commissioner is Geoffrey Luce, who can be 
reached at 683-1699.
This is also the last call for individual 
call pool entries. They are due March 6. 
The commissioner is Geoffrey Luce.
There will be a rules clinic for all team 
and co-rec badminton participants on
Thursday, March 6 at 4:30 PM in the main 
Gym. Games will be played on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays starting on Thursday, March 
6. Practice times will be available after the 
rules clinic. The commissioner for badmin
ton is John Brandt who can be reached at 
578-5901. All badminton players should be 
sur to attend this important clinic.
This is the last week for wrestling pra
ctice. Every wrestler must have attended 
five practices by the end of this week. The 
tournament will be held Saturday, March 8 
at 1:30 PM in Thistle Hall.
The date for the Foul shooting shoot 
off will be announced sometime this week. 
Each shooter will shoot 50 fouls the first 
day and 50 the second day. The commis
sioner A1 Fountain from SAE.
The events for the IM swim meet are 
listed on the Im bulletin board. Sign up in 
room 104 Gym. The date of the meet will 
be announced in the future. A commission
er is still needed.
Slow-Pitch Softball entries are due March 
6. Games will begin as soon as the weather 
permits. The commissioners are Mike 
Pochan, X2247 for the major league and 
Dave Hofmeister, X4007 for the intermed
iate league. There will also be a minor and 
women only league. .The roster maximum 
is 23 and minimum is 11.
INTERMEDIATE BASKETBALL
LWINLOSS
Stench II60
5-053
Infinite Hoops62
Banana Griffs25
Beta06
Hawks52
Six Pistols04
Glorified Plumbers62
Magic Bus27
Cones & Co.17
W.I.A.N.A.62'
SAE. 15
Planets II6 1
PWINLOSS
ATO B II26
Kool & the Gang82
Terrible Tile44
R&G62
Great White Hope53
Delta Tau Delta72
PIKA BI07
Johnson & Johnson63
Physics Grads05
GSIA Small Change33
The Wights07
Born to Run62
Mothership34
MWINLOSS
DU73
Schlag A216
ZBT A35
ATO BI35
In Mates44
Team X101
PIKA B II19
Kappa Sigma54
Sigma Nu73
Bucketeers63
Turning Machine43
Hirochitos Kamikasis17
SUPA53
Indoor soccer
continued from page 25
offs. But, if they had, they would have 
been declared ineligible because of the 
extra player (Hordatt) and have forfeited 
all the games which had been won. In sum, 
CMU could riot compete for the champion
ship of its own tournament.
(Editor's note: Due to the lack of time 
between Saturdays tournament and TAR
TAN press time, the TARTAN was unable 
to reach Jim Banner for a statement on this 
situation. We will contact Mr. Banner and 
report his response in next weeks 
TARTAN.)
Iceman glide to 9-7 win
continued from page 24
St. Vincent poured on pressure, outshooting CMU 13 to 8 in the remainder of 
the period. Fortunately, CMU goaltender 
Dave Tozar stopped all* but two of those 
shots and forward Joe Chaves put yet 
another point on the scoreboard. At the 
end of two, the Tartans held their lead, 7 
to 4.
In the final period, St. Vincent again 
dominated, outshooting the Tartans 9 to 6, 
but only scoring three goals. To their dis
may, Matt Maddalene picked up his second 
unassited goal and Rick Smith hit the open 
net to beat St. Vincent nine to seven. The 
Tartans are on the road for two games in 
Cleveland on Friday and Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

coming events
a.b.
All showings in DH 2210 unless otherwise 
noted at 6,8,10 and 12. Admission $1.00 
with ID / $1.25 without.
March 7 
The In-Laws
nrarch 1 at 3 PM also March 4 at 6 PM
"Two-way Mirror" by John Horner 
March 4th at 6 PM
The Make Believe Ballroom (An exclusive 
interview with legendary Big Band leader 
Count Basie, plus a Basie Music special.) 
March 4 at 8 PM
"Profils on ParadeRerun of the recent 
Draft debate, featuring Tom O'Neal and
Tom Kerr.
March 5 at 11 PM
"What's Your Beef?''- Mark Andrews
continues his search for new lows by spon
soring a creative burping contest. Prizes 
will be awarded to the top three. First 
prize: Fifteen minutes of airtime on a 
future ''What's Your Beef.
March 6 at 11:30 PM
Thirsty Ear presents : Paula Lockhart Live
March 5, at 7 in Porter Hall 100,
Trotta (Color, German with English Sub
titles, 95 minutes)
March 6 at 8PM
Zar und Zimmermann in Frick Fine Arts 
Building University of Pittsburgh.
Pittsburgh Playhouse
First Showing Nitely Always at 7:30 PM
Second showing as indicated/Admission
$2.50
March 4
Cabaret
March 5
Judgement At Nuremburg 
March 6
The Awful Truth 
March 7 
Tommy 
March 8 N
The Deer Hunter 
March 9 
Ziegfield Follies 
March 10
The Threepenny Opera 
March 11
Escape from Alcatraz
March 12
Marty
Museum of Art
Through May 11 William Blayney andAlex
Fletcher, Paintings-Gallery D
Through May 18 Robert Qualter,PaintingEntrance Galley
Through June 1 Portrait Minatures in the 
Collection of the Museum of Art-Treasure Room. 
Through June 1 Prints by James McNeill 
Whistler Gallery 10.
Russian Images, ltd 
Contemporary Fine Arts 
"Wood and Water 
through March 21, 1980 
For more information call (412) 261-5474.music
March 8, at 8 PM
The Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet 
in Carlow's Kresge Theatre.
March 9 at 3:30 PM
Chatham Choir in concert with the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh's Men's Glee Club 
March 5, at 8 PM
Mirella Freni, Metopolitan Opera Suprana 
vocal recital of arias and lieder at the Jewish 
Community Center. Call 521-0810 for tickets.
Through March 2
Theatre Express presents Samuel Beckett's 
Endgame call 621-5454 for reservations 
and more information.
Trough hiarch 15 at 8:00 PM 
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage Com
pany presents "Mary Stuart, Queen of Scot
land.^ Admission $2.50. For reservation 
call Metro box office (683-3993)
March 3 at 8:30 PM
'The Secret of Susanna by Wolf Ferrori 
"A Hand of Bridge" by Samuel Barber 
for more information call 624-6587 
March 5 at 8:00 PM
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Jane Cooper and Carl Dennis in Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, Oakland. For more infor
mation call 621-9893 
March 9 at 7 PM
Marcel Marceau (greatest liveing pantomimist) at Heinz Hall tickets are $10.50, 
$9.50, $8.50, $7.50.
March 8 at 8 PM at Chatham College 
The Bell of Amherst by William Luce 
for more information call 441-8200, 
ext. 224
filmsartstheater
March 1 8t 7 & 8 at 8:00 PM
The Ridge Avenue Theater presents 
"She Stoops to Conquer
special
Author Richard Rose lectures on "Are
Your Values Working?"-presenting a directmind system for examining own life values. 
Thurs. March 13 at 7:30 PM-CMU Hunt 
Library. FREE. 343-1907 for info.
Presidential Candidates for Student Gov't 
will speak and answer questions
TONIGHT 9pm in the Wherrett Room
BE THERE!! SPONSORED BY THE TARTAN
The Great
TARTAN PHOTO COP
IS ON!!
This is the last week to enter p
______ ___________________________ _ ___________________________________ _ _ _
STEST
rints !
0
H+ 
mcia1 Entry Blank
111
Number of Photos entered
iiiiiJ i Name__________________________________________________________________

Return, with your 
prints, to:
THE TARTAN
! ii! iiiii AHHrp JiIiiiiPhone No. *Skibo 50
iiiii
J iiiiiii
*********************************
* For details see page 8 of the February 5th. TARTAN  
*********************************
*)f* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *jf *y. Note: Please put your name, address *
* and the category on the back of each *X * | jprint. For your safety, place your *
* prints in an envelope. *b y ^ *JL wrJUi

---------------------------------------------------

residents, the Colorado College, the Inter
Saturday, March 8
Skibo HallSponsored by SWE
moreclubs
The International Student Organization of
CMU will hold its weekly meeting in Skibo 
Room 12 at 6 PM. The organization of 
upcoming events and the Draft Constitu
tion for ISO-CMU will be discussed. All 
interested students, both American and 
foreign, are invited to attend.
PHOTOG RAPHE RS~The SDC dark room 
in Donner Hall is available for use to any 
dorm resident. For more information, 
contact Frank Kern, X4059. 232 Donner. 
There will be a meeting of the Biology SAC 
Committee at 5 PM Wednesday March 5 in 
Skibo Room 13. The main topic will be 
curriculum changes proposed by the MIS 
curriculum committee.
Senate meeting times  General meets on 
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday in Rm 12.
Spirit will be having a meeting March 4,
1980 at 6:00 in the Morewood Library. 
We will be discussing booth design and 
construction for Spring Carnival. 
AIESEC-CMU. The International Associa
tion of Students in Economics and Busi
ness Management welcomes students of 
every major to their weekly meeting in 
Skibo room 11 at 4:30 PM.
The Art SAC will be selling freshly brewed 
coffee, tea, cocoa and doughnuts every 
Monday through Wednesday mornings
9 through 11:30 AM in the lobby of the 
3rd floor, CFA. Proceeds will finance the 
Fine Arts film series.
The CMU Astronomy Club meets Wednes
day nights at 7:30 pm in Science Hall. 
If weather permits, the 10-inch reflector 
will be used for observations. For more 
information, leave name and telephone 
number in the club mailbox, Physics Dept. 
Sch 7322. Everyone is welcome. Funded 
by Activities Fee.
CMU Explorer's Club meets every week,
Thursday, 7 PM, in Room 11 Skibo. We 
do cross-country skiing, backpacking, hiking, 
caving, climbing, sailing, etc. The club has 
equipment for loan on club trips or for 
rent at nominal fees for private use by 
members of the CMU community. Call 
Steve, 361-3788, Rich, x3069 or Jim, 
421-8130 for more information.
The Art SAC is hosting the 1980 Facul
ty Lecture Series every Thursday at 12:30 
in the Multipurpose room of Hunt Library. 
Check the list in Fine Arts to see who is 
scheduled each week.
The Public Speaking/Debate Club meets 
every Tuesday evening in the GSIA 
Master's Auditorium at 7:00 pm. All 
interested persons are invited to attend.official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office on Tuesday, March 4. 
Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment. It is hoped that
this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing 
students direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
The main lost and found department for
the University is located at Security,155 
Baker Hall. Items will be released to 
persons able to furnish an adequate de
scription, as well as the approximate time 
. lost.general
Five Pittsburgh women communicators
will talk about their profession in a panel 
discussion Tuesday, March 18 at 3 PM in 
Chatham College's Eddy Theatre on the 
Shadyside campus. Their visit, the third 
in an annual series, Women in Communi
cation, is sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette.
The women will discuss their careers 
and the problems and challenges within 
their professions. The panel discussion, 
which will run from 3 to 4:30 PM, is open 
to the public at no charge.
The Society of Women Engineers is holding 
its Third Annual TECHNICAL CARRERS 
CONFERENCE on Saturday, March 8, 
1980, from 8:45 am to 4:30 pm. A variety 
of workshops are scheduled, with informa
tion covering areas that are of interest to 
students of all disciplines. In addition, 
various corporations will be providing 
informative booths. All students are 
welcome. Registration takes place the day 
of the conference in Skibo, beginning at 
8:45 am.
Dance The Night Away Party with
Sound and Light Show. March 8, 9:30- 
12:30 on 4th floor of JCC, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue. Proceeds will go to the UJF 
Campus Campaign.
Gain valuable political experience. Work
for the successful George Bush for Presi
dent campaign. Write to Scott Bok, George 
Bush for President, Suite 1635, 1617 J.F.K. 
Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA if you're 
interested.
"Solar Retrofitting for Residences" will 
be presented at Carnegie-Mellon University 
at 7:30 PM on Tuesday, March 4.
The lecture, co-sponsored by CMU's 
Advanced Building Studies program (ABS) 
and the Western Pennsylvania Solar Energy 
Association, will be held in the auditorium 
of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration on the CMU campus and 
is free and open to the public.
For more information contact Donna 
Leban of ABS at 578-2350.
The University of Pittsburgh Press will 
hold its fourth annual Book Sale, featuring 
108 current titles on sale from their regular 
inventory at discounts up to 90%. The sale 
will be held Tuesday, March 4, and Wednes
day, March 5, from 9:00 AM to 5:30 PM in 
the Venetian room of the Pitt Student 
Union (Schenley Hall).
Israeli dancing takes place every Thurs
day night at 8 PM at Hillel, 315 S. Belle-f lolrl
University And City Ministries is pre
senting their Fifth Spring Colloquy in 
Biblical Theology, beginning Tuesday 
mornings, 10:30 AM to noon, March 4th 
through May 13th at the UACM Center, 
4401 Fifth Avenue in Oakland.
Persons of all faiths are invited to par
ticipate in this enriching and ecumenical 
experience. Registration for the 11-week 
course is $20.00. For further information, 
cal UACM, 682-2751.
Engineering Students: Your're invited to 
compete in a national ENERGY EFFI
CIENCY COMPETITION. Urban Scientific 
and Educational Research is accepting 
applications until March 30, 1980. If you 
think you can design a water heater, 
refrigerator-freezer, or air-conditioner that 
saves energy, you could win national 
awards. For 'more information contact 
USER at P.O. Box 19112/ 20th Street 
Station/ Washington, D.C. 20036.
Super Sunday Telethon for the UJF 
Campus Campaign. 3-10:00 PM on Sun., 
March 9. Call Hillel at 621-8875 to vol
unteer an hour of you time. Phoning will 
take place from the UJF Building, 234 
McKee Place.
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Society, 
Donald Wilkins, Music Director, announces 
auditions for interested singers on Satur
day, March 1, 1980, at 1:00 PM at Calvary 
Episcopal Church, 315 Shady Ave., Shadyside.
Singers are asked to call 661-0120 and 
arrange an audition time. Each person is 
encouraged to bring a prepared piece to 
sing.
The Pittsburgh Oratorio Society will 
present the Passion According to St. John, 
by Johann Sebastian Bach, on Friday 
April 4, at 8:00 PM atCalvary Episcopal 
Church. Donald Wilkins will direct chorus, 
orchestra, and soloists in this performance. 
Shabbat services and dinner will begin at 
5:30 at B'nai B'rith Hillel,315 S. Bellefield. Tonight is a $2.50 special in honor of 
our guest from Israil, Scholar-in-Residence, 
Dr. Atara Sherman. Reservations should be 
made in advance by calling 621-8875.
The Poale Zedeck program for Young 
Jewish adults will hold a dinner forum at 
Hillel, 315 S. Bel If ield Avenue on Sun., 
March 9 at 5 PM. No reservations required 
for a free deli supper and discussion.
Shabbat Services and dinner begin at 
5:30 at B'nai B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield. Reservations should be made in 
advance by calling 621-8875.
International Publications is sponsoring a 
National College Poetry Contest Spring 
Concours 1980. The contest is open to all 
college students who wish to have their 
poetry anthologized.
For more information contact the 
English Department or write to: Inter
national Publications, P.O. Box 44927, 
Los Angeles, CA 90044.
International students are invited to 
apply for Summer Crossroads 1980, a 
week-long program to be held in Colorado 
Springs, Colorado, June 1-6 and in Los 
Angeles, California, June 7-14. The pro
grams are being sponsored by community
national Student Center at UCLA, the 
University of Southern California and the 1 
Institute of International Education. j\ 
limited number of partial travel grants 
are available from the International Com
munication Agency. Information and ap
plications have been mailed to the foreign 
student advisor on you campus.
To be eligible for Crossroads students 
must be at the graduate level and planning 
to return home no later than May 1981.
See Foreign Student Advisor (Warner 
Hartl 611) for application forms.
SeniorsPortraits and retakes this Thurs
day and Friday only. Sign for an appoint
ment at Information Desk.
Important Intramural Board Meeting 
Thursday, March 6, 12:30 PM Room 104, 
Gym. This will be the last meeting prior 
to intramural night, please plan to attend.scholarships
The application period is open for Army
ROTC Scholarships. The 2 year scholarship 
application period runs until March I.The 
3 year scholarship application period runs 
until May I. The Army Scholarship pays 
full tuition, books, fees, and provides $100 
per month. It also guarantees an Active 
Army Officer appointment in one of over 
forty specialties from infantry to finance, 
from aviation to communications, from 
engineering to artillery. For additional 
information, see Major Johnson in Gym 
203 or call 578-2196.
"Learn German in Germany", a twomonth course at a Goethe Institute in 
the Federal Republic of Germany for 
graduate students and faculty. Intensive 
course work supplemented by social 
activities like movies, guest lectures, sports 
events, et al. Application deadline is March 
15, 1980.
For further information and application 
forms please contact: German Academic 
Service (DAAD), 535 Fifth Avenue, Suite 
1107, New York, NY 10017. Tel.: (212) 
599-0464.
Not a genius? Not a pauper? Don't despair,
you can still win a scholarship. The Kent 
D. Shaffer Scholarship is not based on 
academic standing or financial need. This 
scholarship is awarded anually to the 
applicants who best exemplify the ideas of 
leadership, friendship, and service. Apply
ing for this scholarship is very simple. Just 
fill out an application available at the 
Skibo information desk before March 12. 
This scholarship is open to any undergrad 
currently attending C-MU. It is sponsored 
by A Phi O.
Imaginary love plays fancy 
footwork round a moment 
that never arrives. Incarate 
love lives in the moment, and 
pays the price.
Daniel Berrigan
