Computer Center News Pg. 6
September 5, 1972
Volume 73
Bookstore Drama Building Plans 
nces Scrapped By CyertCut
^ Due to the existence of a severe finan
cial crisis at CMU the Bookstore has in
itiated a new price policy effective this 
semester. According to Mr. David Ginevan, 
Director of General Services, the new po
licy is one of competition. A service 
such as the bookstore should not be sub
sidized by tuition hikes. The bookstore in 
fact, is not a necessity for the campus 
^ community, continued Ginevan. All need
ed supplies and texts can be purchased 
from Pitt, Duquesne, Carlow and other lo
cal bookstores. Students are going to have 
to pay for the convenience of this service 
to justify its existence.
A new Bookstore policy established by 
the administration will allow a 5 percent 
patronage rebate on the purchase of text 
 books for the fall semester. The decision 
was reached too late to allow the Book
store to re-price all fall semester text 
books, so it is important that students re
tain all Bookstore cash register receipts to 
take advantage of the 5 percent rebate.
The rebate will not apply to other 
books and merchandise purchased in the 
Bookstore.
ft According to Charles Floyd, Bookstore 
Manager, the rebates will begin as soon as 
possible after the opening rush period. An 
announcement will be made in the TAR
TAN and in the Bookstore concerning the 
procedure by which students can claim the 
rebate. Normal exchanges and returns will 
be handled in the usual manner.
As Mr. Ginevan noted, students are now 
^ having to pay for the high incidence of 
theft. If theft does not decline, students 
will be paying a still higher price.
The Bookstore is presently investigating 
the feasibility of a used books depart
ment to aid in keeping semester book bills 
down. Another cutback measure was the 
dismissal of 2 bookstore full-time em
ployees. The staff will now be augmented 
ft by more part time employees.
CMU Dramats will continue to concentrate their studies around CFA's 
Mainstage (above) since new building plans have been scrapped.
Music Dept To Move In CFA Expansion
/% unii inH  flPlli  r\ I /fi lro liol ofThe Music Department will find a new 
home on the third and fourth floors of the 
Mellon Institute Building on Fifth Avenue 
in Oakland. The move will be complete, as 
classes, offices and practice rooms will all 
be located in that building, previously a 
bastion of the sciences.
It is so far being claimed that the Mellon 
Institute building is very satisfactory, and 
that little soundproofing or other work will 
be necessary.
The move is expected to take place in 
January, between semesters. The time until 
then will be used for space palnning and 
the relocation of facilities currently 
occupying the Mellon Institute space. The 
move will be carefully planned so that, in 
the words of Akram Midani, dean of the 
College of Fine Arts, we grow' and not 
just expand. Theres a 
difference.
Meltzer To Head GSIA
Allan H. Meltzer, Maurice Falk Pro
fessor of Economics and Social Science has 
been named acting dean of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration. Dr. 
Meltzer has assumed his new duties, 
ft At the same time, the University an
nounced that Myron L. Joseph, professor 
of economics and head of the department 
of administration and management science, 
will become an associate dean of GSIA, 
effective September 1.
Dr. Meltzer, 44, has been a member of 
the GSIA faculty since 1957, holding posi
tions as assistant professor, associate pro^ fessor, professor, and Ford Distinguished 
Research Professor.
He is a nationally known authority on 
federal monetary policies, has directed 
studies and given testimony on economics 
finances for congressional committees, 
has published extensively in leading 
omic and business publications.
. Meltzer has served as a visiting pro3t the University of Chicago, Harx>Continued on Page 11
Dean Allan H. Meltzer 
vard University and the Yugoslav Institute 
of Economic Research. Before coming to 
CMU, he lectured in economics at the Un
iversity of Pennsylvania.
He was a Ford Faculty Research Fellow
A lecture hall at Mellon is being studied 
for possible conversion to an auditorium 
which would then become the showcase 
for Music Department presentations. In 
addition, the lobby on the fourth floor will 
become a gallery for exhibiting works from 
the faculty and students of the Painting 
and Sculpture Department, as weel as guest 
exhibitions.
The dance and movement, and the cos
tume portions of the Drama Department 
will be located on the second floor of Mar
garet Morrison, ex-home of the now de
funct Margaret Morrison Carnegie College. 
That colleges textile facilities will be taken 
over by the costume department.
Painting and Sculpture and Architecture 
will acquire new space in Doherty Hall, 
where glassblowing and metal work shops 
are already located.
Registration 
Drive Set For 
CMU Students
The Pittsburgh League of Women 
Voters will conduct a field registration at 
CMU on Wednesday, September 13. They 
will be set up in Skibo Lobby from 10 
until 3.
Anyone may register who is a citizen, 
who will be 18 on or before November 7, 
and who will have established an Allegheny 
County address by October 7. Naturalized 
citizens will need their naturalization pa
pers.
A campus address is valid in Penn
sylvania and any CMU student who meets 
the stated qualifications may register and 
vote in Pittsburgh.
Mrs. Gerald Brandt, President of the 
League, pointed out that in addition to the 
election of President and national legislat
ors, there are also many local offices, and 
of special importance this election, the 
question of a Home Rule Study Comm
ission to review self government in 
Allegheny County.
At a special session held July 17, the 
Executive Committee of the Board of 
Trustees voted to suspend plans for the 
projected Drama Building.
The decision was an outgrowth of the 
lack of success of the Fund for Distinction 
program, which has now fallen about 18 
million dollars short of the 55 million do
llar goal, for the projected 4.7 million 
dollar Drama building only 2.5 million has 
been raised.
The Trustees had earlier voted to pro
ceed with the project with financing to be 
arranged, but a deteriorating financial sit
uation, and contractors bids which exceed
ed the cost estimates, necessitated a review.
Interest on financing and maintenance 
costs (projected at $100,000 annually) 
would have to be added to an already de
ficit operating budget, and there were sub
stantial fears that the principal would even
tually be drawn from endowment.
The building had originally been con
ceived as a Fine Arts Complex to house 
Drama, Architecture, and Design. Im
pinging finances prevailed and the project 
was scaled down. The Drama Building as 
bid on would have included a studio 
theater, classrooms, and offices.
Efforts are now being made to retain 
over two million dollars pledged to the 
building for renovation of the old Fine 
Arts building. That building is in need of a 
new roof, and extensive draining, plumb
ing, and wiring work. An overall renovation 
plan is expected by October. The main 
stage Theater is expected to be a major 
priority in such a plan.
C-MU President Richard Cyert express
ed concern that one of the first decisions 
of his tenure had to be one so painful to 
the College of Fine Arts, which, he pointed 
out, has suffered a long history of neglect. 
He hoped that that decision would not be 
misinterpreted as being representative of 
his feelings towards CFA. In an address to 
alumni the President dedicated himself to 
providing that College with a faculty of 
distinction with salaries commensurate 
with first-class fine arts faculties any
where and the most excellent pro
fessional arts programs possible.
SST Lobbyist,
Nixon Advisor 
At Symposium
William M. Magruder, the man who co
ordinated Lockheed Aircrafts campaign 
for the Supersonic Transport (S.S.T.) and 
currently Special Consultant for Tech
nology to the President of the United 
States, will be the featured speaker at a 
Symposium on Profits from Innovation, 
sponsored by the Processing Research In
stitute of CMU, on Wednesday, September 
6.
The symposium will examine the econ
omic and social consequences of tech
nological innovation, and will run from 
1:30 to 4:30 p.m. in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium, 4400 Fifth Avenue.
The program will consist of Mr. Magruders lecture and a panel discussion, 
Continued on Page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, September 5. 1972
Retaliatory Evictions 
Prohibited By 1RS
Editor-in-Chief......................Steve Jurman
News Editor...............................Jeff Ganek
Politics........................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor....................Judy Narosny
Sports Editor..........................Jim Brogan
Business Manager....................Alice Bright
Entertainment Editors ....Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
Entertainment Staff..........Stephen Hamm
Janet Glassman, Walter Kodhler 
Terence Pa Iso
News Staff Anne Friedman
Mina Gerall, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern 
Cliff Stevens, Robin Reiter, Mike Hill 
Features Staff .......Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Sports Staff............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan, Jim Powers 
Jon Swierzewski, Jude Heller
Photography Staff...................Elliot Arons
Ed Levine, Jay Caras
Copy Staff..............................
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, - Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Telephone (412) 682-4557
Landlords who evict tenants in retaliat
ion for protesting allegedly illegal rent in
creases to the Internal Revenue Service are 
violating Economic Stabilization regula
tions and face possible criminal or civil 
penalties, James E. Quinn, Acting District 
Director of Internal Revenue for Western 
Pennsylvania, said.
If the government proves retaliation in 
court, the landlord may be subject to a 
$5,000 fine for each violation, a civil penal
ty or $2,500 for each violation, or an in
junction to prohibit future retaliatory acts, 
Quinn said.
Quinn noted that the effectiveness of 
enforcement of rent controls depends pri
marily on tenant initiative, aided and en
couraged by governmental action.
Eviction of a tenant, who has com
plained to the government about illegal 
rental increases, would not only punish the 
tenant for making a complaint, which he 
has a constitutional right to make, but 
would stand as a warning to others that 
they dare not be so bold. Retaliatory evic
tions under such circumstances would be a 
perversion of the Congressional purpose in 
enacting the Economic Stabilization Act, 
Quinn said.
Quinn advised tenants who receive noti
ces of eviction after complaining of a rent 
increase to contact their IRS office, contin
ue to pay rent and keep records of pay
ments thought to be in excess of those 
permitted by Stabilization regulations.
Quinn said that useful evidence to sup
port an allegation of retaliatory eviction 
includes the following:
1) the tenant always paid rent on time, 
behaved properly, etc., and therefore the 
landlord could have no reason for eviction 
other than retaliation;
2) when the tenant asked the landlord ^ 
the reason for the notice of rent increase, 
the landlord refused to answer or was eva
sive;
3) if the landlord contends that the ten
ant was sometimes late in paying the rent 
or was sometimes noisy, the landlord had 
never complained about this to the tenant;
4) other tenants were late in paying rent 
for longer periods and more frequently 4 
than the tenant in question; or
5) the only points of consequence about 
which the tenant and landlord disagreed, or 
about which the tenant challenged the 
landlord, were the validity of the proposed 
illegal increase of the compliance of the 
rent increase notice with the form required 
by Economic Stabilization regulations.
Under the Economic Stabilization Act a ( 
citizen also may sue his landlord for retalia
tory eviction, Quinn said. Among the rem
edies he may seek are: an injunction to 
prevent the eviction and further harrassment by the landlord; a court order declar
ing the rent increase illegal and vacating the 
eviction notice; and reasonable attorneys 
fees and costs plus the greater of three 
times the rent overcharge or an amount 4 
from $100 to $1,000.
However, landlords owning four or few
er rental units are exempt from controls.
editors note
i
It was all  too typical of the way in which decisions are made at 
Carnegie-Mellon, though of course thoroughly predictable, that the Un
iversitys new President was named just several days after the majority of 
students had gone for summer. It is also all too typical of the pattern that 
the returning students are being presented with a number of major 
decisions (see elsewhere in the TARTAN) as faits accomplis.
There are extenuating circumstances this time round, namely a major 
financial crisis needing immediate attention, which very nearly make the 
state of affairs palatable. But in the future there should be no such further 
happenings. The student body and particularly Student Government 
should be taking stronger stands in this area.
Apart from circumstances\ the new adminstration appears to be 
showing commendable traits. Dr. Cyert has thus far shown great concern 
over establishing good communications. He has been available and frank, 
at least to the student "establishment. Members of the new admin
istration, particularly in Operations, have taken pains to initiate free 
relations with the TA R TA N, and have also been commendably available 
and frank.
Furthermore, though beginning (of necessity) badly with Fine Arts, 
Dr. Cyert has gone on record as promising that bastard child of the 
University a fair share of the available riches in view of its history of 
suffering. This too is commendable; no student attending C-MU de
serves less than the best C-MU can provide, which long has not been the 
situation with CFA.
With a distrust nurtured by years of dealing with Carnegie-Mellon 
administrators, such praise does not come easily. In view of the hard times 
and decisions ahead, one hopes it was not given in error.
George Bernard Shaw stated that democracy is a device that insures 
that we shall be governed no better than we deserve. Adlai Stevenson 
added,
"Whose fault is it, then, that we get what we deserve in govern
ment...it isnt the fault of the lower order of the genus pol, but it is the 
fault of you, the people. Your public servants serve you right; indeed 
often they serve you better than your apathy and indifference deserve. 
Without doubt, both descriptions are as inaccurate as any one para
graph indictment of an entire social system must be. There are great 
forces, some we comprehend and others we do not, working on our 
society regardless of the party in power.
These dynamics may well make true the contention, advanced by 
many out of conviction or fashion, that real, significant change is not 
possible through the electoral process.
But it is not true that change is impossible, and it is not true that 
who holds office makes no difference. If the system is limited, it has yet 
unrealized potential, potential which the right people, backed by an active 
citizenry, might bring to fruition. And if the systems capacity for per
fection is meager, its capacity for corruption and evil is limitless and the 
political spectrum filled with those who would exploit that frailty.
The League of Women Voters will conduct a voter registration in 
Skibo lobby on September 13, from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. Registering and 
voting cost nothing and take only a reasonable amount of time. As one 
who has been tear gassed, dubbed, and arrested can testify, voting is at 
worst no more futile and definitely less painful.
Steve Jurman
THE TARTAN 
NEEDS HELP
TO FILL BLANK SPACES LIKE THIS ONE!!!
IF YOU CAN WRITE: NEWS
FEATURES
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT 
OR IF YOU CAN DO SOME RESEARCH,
COME VISIT

---------------------------------------------------

The Department of Modern Languages will An exhibition of rare, original botanical
administer proficiency tests in French, Gerpaintings and prints dating from the 16th
man, Spanish and Russian on Saturday, through the 19th centuries is on display in
September 16 at 10 am, in the Language the Hunt Institute for Botanical DocumenLaboratory (Margaret Morrison 310). Any tation of CMU'
student may take one of these tests; there The exhibition which opened July 5th,
is no charge. The test takes 95 minutes. is composed of selections from the Hunt
Students who demonstrate competence Institutes outstanding collection of paintat the intermediate level will satisfy their ngs and prints. It includes work by some
college and/or departmental requirements of the most celebrated botanical artists of
in foreign language. (Undergraduate only), the period including Pierre-Jospeh ReStudents may also take this test in order doute, Pieter Casteels, and Johan de Bey.
to establish their level of competenct in the Located in the penthouse of the Hunt
language gained through self-study, study Library, the exhibition will be open to the
abroad, etc., or to determine their level of public weekdays from 9 am to 5 pm
achievement in order to continue further through September,
study in that language. These tests are pri
marily designed for students who have had A bi-monthly series of jazz workshops will
two years or more of college language inbe held in the Cat's Cradle beginning Sepstruction, although this is not a prerequitember 24 at 4:00. The programs will feasite for taking the test. fure leading jazz groups from Pittsburgh
Students wishing to take one of these and surrounding territories and will include
tests should sign up in the Modern LanJam Sessions as an added feature,
guages Department office, BH 232-B, beAny individual or group interested in
fore Thursday, September 14, 4:00 pm. participating in this session should contact:
Sue Christian, YWCA Office, Phone X239.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL 
STUDENT SERVICES1972 
Y.M.&W.H.A. AUDITORIUM 
315 South Bell field A venue
ROSH HASH AN AH
Friday September 8; 8:00 pm.
Saturday September 9; 9:30 pm.
(Kiddush Following Morning Service)
Sunday September 10; 9:30 am.
YOM KIPPUR
Sunday September 1 7; 7:00 pm.
^ KOL NIDRE
Monday September 18; 10:00 am.
Morning Worship-Memorial Service; 10:00 am. to 2:00 pm 
Talk-in; 2:30 pm. to 3:30 pm. 
A fternoon WorshipNeilahHavdallah 
Sounding of the Shofar; 5:00 pm. to sunset
BREAK-THE-FAST DINNER FOLLOWING CONCLUDING 
SER VICE $1.00 BY RESER VA TIONS ONL Y621-8875 
BY SEPTEMBER 13, Noon.
*Arrangements Available for Home Hospitality and Local Synagogues and 
Temples
* Assistance to Those Who Wish to Conduct Their Own Services by 
Appointment
* Anyone Who WOuld Like to Participate in the Services, Please Call 
621-8875
*HILLEL DINING CLUB WILL BEGIN TO FUNCTION WITH DINNER 
ON WEDNESDA Y SEPTEMBER 6, 1972.
THREE-CREDIT HEBREW COURSE 
FALL TERM STARTING SEPTEMBER 7
ELEMENTARY HEBREW VICTOR BARUH
COURSE 82601
226A Porter Hall 1:00 pm.
Permenent time will be discussed at first meeting to accommodate sche
dules.
CLASSES TO BE CONTINUED DURING SECOND 
SEMESTER-COURSE 82602
THE TARTAN  Tuesday, September 5, 1972  Page 3
WRCT is the campus radio station of 
Carnegie-Mellon University, run entirely by 
students. Its an extra-curricular, volunteer, 
student activity, and we receive most of 
our funding from the C-MU Student 
Government. We can be picked up any
where on campus.
WRCT is on the air 24 hours a day, 
seven days a week, throughout the school 
year. Our primary purpose is to entertain 
and inform the C-MU community and at 
the same time minimize the uninteresting 
things found on most commercial radio 
today.
Our music is basically progessive rock, 
with special programming on Sundays. 
Special Sunday shows include:Folk music, 
Classics, Jazz, Humor, Solid Gold, Album 
Spotlight, and Perspective:C-MU, our talk 
show.
In the words of WRCTs Music Director, 
we are where the artists themselves are; 
what they put out is what we play. We 
dont have the restrictions that commercial 
radio does of waiting for something to be a 
certain level of hit before we can play it. 
The music we play is also influenced by 
campus tastes, and the best way to let us 
know what you like is to call up and re
quest it. WRCT News has the respon
sibility of informing you of campus events, 
and is heard Monday through Thursday at 
7:30 PM with a special Friday edition at 
6:15 before your weekend gets rolling. 
WRCT News also brings you live coverage 
of all C-MU basketball and football games, 
both home and away. To keep you up to 
date on world and national events, we 
carry ABC Information Radio Network 
news hourly throughout the week and six 
times on Sunday.
WRCT is run entirely by students doing 
everything from making posters to building 
equipment to being disc jockeys. We can 
always use more interested people, and if 
youre at all curious as to what makes a 
radio station tick come down and take a 
look. Our studios are in Room 48 Skibo, 
and there are people there who will be 
happy to show you around anytime. Or 
call us up and request a song; its a good 
start. Our phone numbers are 621-9728 
and 01 on the Morewood House Phone 
Parking Committee Forum-open to FacSystem,
ulty, Staff and Students So, thats what we are. If you want to
To explain and answer questions confind out whats goind on, tune in to
cerning new CMU Parking System: its raWRCT, 900 on your AM dial. And if you
tionale, fees, improvements and regwant good music, stick with us. Weve got
ulations. that too.
Place and Time: Skibo Wherrett Room - 
Wednesday, September 13th, 12:15 PM to 
1:15 PM, Thursday, September 14th, 5:15 
PM to 6:30 PM or at Mellon Institute Aud
itorium - Friday, September 15th, 12:15 
PM to 1:15 PM.
PERSPECTIVE: C-MU
SECURITY DIRECTOR RON TAYLOR 
talks about security and its services
ABC NEWS AND SPORTS LOCAL NEWS 
Sunday night sept. 10 at 6 pm a presentation of
WRCT NEWS/9
Announcements:
The Activitis Board is once again in search
of new members. If you are interested in 
being a member of this prestigious organi
zation, stop by the Skibo Information 
Desk for full details.
The Activities Board Concert Committee
will hold its first meeting on Wednesday 
September 6 at 4:30 in Room 33 in Skibo. 
Anyone interested in working on the AB 
Concert Program, either in planning or pro
ductions should attend.
Attention Poster Designers: The Activities
Board is looking for people to design and 
print posters for AB events. Payment will 
depend upon type of poster. Call 521-5970 
or come to Skibo Information Desk for full 
details.
The Activities Board Lecture Committee
will have its first meeting on Friday Sep
tember 8, at 4:30 in Skibo Room 33. If 
you are interested in helping in any way 
shape or form come to the meeting. If you 
can't attend the meeting, call Tom Lee at 
521-5970.
Jewish High Holy Days religious services
will be held at Rodef Shalom Temple on 
Friday evening, September 8 and Saturday 
morning, September 9 (Rosh Hashanah) 
and Sunday September 17 and Monday, 
September 18 (Yom Kippur). Evening ser
vices will be at 6:30 and morning services 
will be at 10. Jewish students are invited to 
attend these Reform services. If interested, 
phone 621-6566.
Notice: Need persons to teach interest clas
ses part time in the Arts, such as music, 
drama, specifically guitar, macrame, weav
ing, etc. Call now for application 
371-2712.
Mention Senators:
First Student Senate Meeting Tuesday, 
September 11, 4:30 PM, Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, September 5, 1972
Reta Raleiaor yeEvce navEo sPh
Akram Midani, a member of the Carnegie-Mellon University faculty since 1965, has been named Dean of the College of Fine Arts. Midani, an associate professor of drama, succeeds Norman L. Rice, who has retired afterBom in Damascus, Syria, Midani, 45, received a B.F.A. from the High Institute of Dramatic Arts in Cairo, and an M.A. from New York University. He has also completed all course requirements for the Ph.D at N.Y.U. At C-MU, he has been very active in the campus community, having served as chairman of the faculty of the College of Fine Arts in 1968-69, as as member of the Educational Policy Council of the University from 1968-70, and as chairman of the CMU faculty in 1970-71.Mr. Rice, 66, has stepped down after having served as Dean of the College since 1954. He was educated at the University of Illinois and at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Prior to coming to CMU, he served on the faculty and later became Dean at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and was Director of the School of Art at Syracuse University from 1946-54.Professor Midani assumed his new duties on July 1. At various times in his career he has been engaged as a drama critic, actor, director, and scriptwriter, as well as literary correspondent of Al-Adab, a literary monthly publication in Beirut, Lebanon. He came to the United States in 1955 attached to the Syrian Mission to the United Nations, and by 1965 when he joined the CMU faculty, he had become First Secretary.In 1962, he received a travel grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to study the International Theater Institute in Paris. He
/
currently holds membership in the American Society for Aesthetics and the Shakespeare Association of America.Locally, he served as director of the Institute on Poetics of the International Poetry Forum in 1967 and as a member of the Board of Directors of the Pittsburgh Plan for Art from 1969-71.The new CMU Deans wife, Wafta Mi dani, is a prominent artist who has achieved recognition both locally and nationally. She has -been in various exhibitions in many cities and is represented in collections in New York, Los Angeles. Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Istanbul, Jerusalem, and Cairo. She has had several one-woman shows in Pittsburgh and has received several major awards. Another exhibition of her work is scheduled for the Carnegie Institute Museum of Art beginning in January, 1973.The retiring Dean Rice was widely recognized for his contributions to fine arts education. He has served on studies of art* Governments, and as consultant for various universities and professional schools. Dean Rice is also a past-president and fellow of the National Association of Schools of Art; is a past-president of the Pittsburgh Plan for Art and the National Council for the Arts in Education; and is a member of the International Council of Fine Arts Deans.Locally, he is a member and past president of the board of directors of the Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society. In 1967, Dean Rice was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Fine Arts Degree by the Otis Art Institute of Los Angeles County.He will continue his association with the University as a member of the faculty in painting.
Thomas Kerr, lecturer in Industrial Ad
ministration and Law for C-MUs Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration since 
1964, has been named Head of the Depart
ment of Administration and Management 
Science. Mr. Kerr is also an Adjunct Prof
essor of Law at Duquesne University 
School of Law. He received his A.B. in 
1940 from Lafayette College and his J.D. 
in 1950 from George Washington Univer
sity. He was admitted to the District of 
Columbia Bar in 1951 and the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania in 1964.
Kerr has worked for the Antitrust Di
vision of the U.S. Department of Justice as 
a Business Economist and trial attorney; 
and for Westinghouse Electric Corporation 
as Cheif Counsel of their Antitrust Section.
Mr. Kerr is most noted for his commun
ity involvement. Among many other 
committments he is Commissioner for the 
City of Pittsburgh Commission on Human 
Relations; President of the American Civil 
liberties Union of Pennsylvania; a member 
of the ACLU National Board of Directors;
Thomas Kerr
Board member and First Vice President of 
Neighborhood Legal Services Association 
and a Board member of Pittsburghs 
NAACP, and Pennsylvania Equal Rights 
Council.
Dean Akram MidaniPhoto by Ray Scholz
Campaign Issue Forum 
Initiated By Pres. Cyert
Kerr Made AMS Head
Initiated by Dr. Cyert and planned by a 
student-faculty committee, the Fall Cam
paign Issue Forum will bring to Carnegie 
-Mellons campus a number of outstanding 
program participants to discuss four of the 
major issues in the current Presidential 
campaign. Each of the programs will take 
place at 7:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom and 
are open to all members of the campus 
community. Forum dates and topics are as 
follows:
Wednesday, September 20, the topic 
will be Defense Expenditures-Can They Be 
Substantially Reduced?; Monday, Sep
tember 25, Busing; Wednesday, September'
27, American Policy in Vietnam; and Wed
nesday, October 11, Income Redistribution-Tax Reform and Welfare Reform.
Participants will include leading national 
spokesmen covering the major viewpoints 
on each issue. Further information on in
dividual participants will be announced in 
.the TARTAN.Cafeterias Redecorated New Schedule Announced
Offering better service to the campus 
community is the primary goal of the new 
General Services division, according to its 
director, Dave Ginevan. General Services 
consists of Food Services, Housing, the 
Bookstore and Office Services.
I intend to see that these four areas 
operate with service being the first pri
ority, Ginevan said. Im interested in 
finding out what students think--both good 
and bad--so changes can be made to im
prove them.
In keeping with this goal, Food Services 
customers will find that the dining halls 
have been redecorated and that hours have 
been extended. The minimum cafeteria 
schedule, which will remain in effect 
year-round, is as follows:GRE Test Dates Set Pipers Recruit
Undergraduates and others prparing to 
go to graduate school may take the Gradu
ate Record Examinations on any of six 
different test dates during the current aca
demic year.
The first testing date for the GRE is 
October 28, 1972. Scores from this admin
istration will be reported to the graduate 
schools around December 4. Students plan
ning to register for the October test date 
are advised that applications received by 
ETS after October 3 will incur a $3.50 late 
registration fee. After October 10, there is 
no guarantee that applications for the Oc
tober test date can be processed.
The other five test dates are December 
9, 1972, January 20, February 24 (only 
the Aptitude Test is administered), April 
28 and June 16, 1973. Equivalent late fee 
and registration deadlines apply to these 
dates. Choice of test dates should be determined by the requirements of graduate 
schools or fellowship sponsors to which 
one is applying. Scores are usually reported 
to graduate schools five weeks after a test 
date.
The Graduate Record Examinations in
clude an Aptitude Test of general scholas
tic ability and Advanced Teste measuring 
achievement in 19 major fields of study. 
Full details and registration forms for the 
GRE are contained in the 1972-73 GRE 
INFORMATION BULLETIN. The Bulletin 
also contains forms and instructions for 
requesting transcript service on GRE scores 
already on file with ETS. This booklet is 
available on most campuses or may be or
dered from: Educational Testing Service, 
Box 955, Princeton, New Jersey 08540; 
1947 Center Street, Berkeley, California 
94704; or 960 Grove Street, Evanston, Illinios 60201.
In the interest of furthering the trad
ition of piping on campus, the University 
has appointed two new instructors in the 
Department of Student Activities. Charles 
Faddis, 70 and Ron Lupish, 66, both for
mer members of the CMU pipers, are plan
ning an active recruitment of students in
terested in learning the art of piping.
There will be a demonstration of the 
Piob Mor (Great Highland Bagpipe) and 
piping at the Activities Fair, September 5, 
1972 from 2 to 4 p.m. on the cut. The 
instructors will be present at the Fair to 
discuss piping and related Scottish trad
itions.
The first meeting of interested students 
will be in the Wherrett Room of Skibo at 
7:00 p.m. on Monday, September 11. 
There will be a further demonstration and 
discussion of piping activities at this meet
ing.
Main Cafeteria SKIBO 
Monday-Saturday 
6:30 am-7:30 am - coffee & doughnuts 
7:30 am-10 am - breakfast 
10 am-11:30 am - coffee & doughnuts 
11:30 am-1:30 pm - lunch 
4:30 pm-7 pm - dinner 
Sunday 
8 am-10 am - breakfast
10 am-11:30 am - coffee & doughnuts 
11:30 am-2 pm - lunch 
4:30 pm-7 pm - dinner 
Tartan Grill: 11:30 am-12 midnight daily 
Mudge House Cafeteria will not be open this 
year.
During registration, brightly colored 
badges which say Eat at Carnegie Food 
Service Facilities will be distributed.
Ginevan also noted that the dormitories 
have undergone extensive renovations over 
the summer. The improvements include 
painting the outside of Morewood Gardens, 
installing new screens, refinishing much of 
the furniture and replacing kitchen units; 
installing new carpets and retiling the re
creation area in Donner Hall; redecorating 
the lounges in Mudge House; completely 
refurnishing the Woodlawn Apartments; re
novating the old Beta Sigma Rho house, 
and painting the hill dorms.
Complaints and comments on these 
areas and others within the Operations Di
vision should be directed to Frank 
Colosimo, Customer Relations re
presentative. Colosimo, whose office is on 
the third floor of Warner Hall, was for
merly head counselor for the mens dorm
itories and director of the Study Skills Cen
ter.

---------------------------------------------------

Fees ranging from $20 to $120 will be 
charged to students, faculty, and staff 
members who chose to park their cars on 
the CMU campus during the 1972-1973 
academic year. The fee schedule and a new 
set of parking regulations were announced 
last week by the Parking Committee.
The fee schedule is designed so that 
the cost of operating parking facilities will 
be absorbed by the user to a greater extent 
than it is now, claims Security Director 
Ron Taylor.
Permit rates for different lots on 
campus vary. The Committee states that 
they vary with the fair market value deter
mined by the service each respective lot 
offers. The fees for parking over the next 
full academic year are as follows:
Fine Arts $110 
Donner $70 
M.Morrison $30 
Doherty Grad $30 
Skibo A $40 
Skibo B $60 
Frats $30 
Morewood $30 
Warner $70 
Mellon $40 
Science $100 
Porter $90 
Baker $120 
Evening $20 
Motorcycle $5
Special features offered by the new 
system include a pool permit that will en
able a group of communters to purchase a 
single permit that will let them park any 
one of their cars on any one day. There is a
Student Semester Payment Plan under 
which students can pay half of a parking 
fee before September 15 with the second 
half not due until January 15. A payroll 
deduction payment plan is available to fac
ulty and staff.
All faculty, staff, and students are el
igible to purchase permits in any campus 
parking lot with the exception that priority 
will be given to the residents of Doherty 
Grad House and the Fraternities to park in 
their respective adjacent areas.
Bike Racks To Deter Thefts
The CMU Security Department has in
vested $2000 in six racks that will protect 
100 bicycles from the high risk of theft 
that exists on campus. This is an experi
ment that were hoping, if successful, will 
encourage bicycles and discourage the use 
of cars, claims Security Director, Ron 
Taylor.
The new racks have a swinging gate that 
closes entirely around the bike. Special 
padlocks for the racks with 3/8 to 1/2 inch 
case hardened shackles will be sold in the 
bookstore for approximately $10. The 
racks require no chains.
Besides using the new racks, Director 
Taylor states, we urge that all bikes on 
campus be registered with Security. He 
claims that Security will better be able to 
protect parked bikes and recover stolen 
ones if they have records of the bikes 
description, serial number, and owner.
The new racks will clamp around bikes.
Bike Derby At 3 Rivers 
Expected To Attract 1000
More than 1,000 bike riders are expected to take part in Pittsburghs first 100-mile Bike Derby for the benefit of the Heart Fund at Three Rivers Stadium, Sunday, Sept. 10, from 10 am to 4 pm.The unusual charity event will be held on the 1 Vi mile roadway around the outside of the Stadium. Auto traffic will be detoured away from the Stadium area when the ride is in progress.City Traffic Engineer James Balzer said he will set aside a special inside bike lane 
tor the slow and young riders and an outside lane for the fast and experienced riders.The riders can make as many trips around the Stadium as they choose. For
example, 10 times around is 15 miles, 20 times around is 30 miles and 50 times around is 75 miles. A few of the expert are expected to pedal 100 miles in five hours.But its strictly up to each rider to decide the time of day they will start riding and the number of miles they want to ride. The first man and woman to complete the 
100-mile ride will be presented with gold trophies.The entry fee is $1.00 and the bike riders are asked to get a friend or businessman to donate a minium of five cents to the Heart Fund for every mile they ride. At a similar charity bike ride in Indiana one of the riders had over 100 sponsors and raised $900.00.Security Dept Offers Tips
and this summer have been  .............------------------------ ILast spring and this summer have been 
particularly peaceful on campus and we are 
in hopes that the coming school year is 
more of the same. Returning students 
are probably familiar with our operation. If 
youre new, you might want to know a 
little about us.
We are attempting to upgrade our ser
vices to the students and other members of 
the community, and currently provide the 
following:
1) ambulance transportation and first 
aid for sick or injured
2) crime and accident investigation on, 
campus and in conjunction with the City 
Police
3) general fire watch
4) mobile and foot patrol of grounds 
and buildings
5) parking and traffic control
6) citizen assistentry request, battery 
jumps, entry into locked vehicles, etc.
7) handling of lost and found property
8) finger-printing for security clearance 
processing
9) monitoring of fire and burglar alarm 
systems
10) night and weekend telephone 
system.
There were some complaints last year 
about Security not having a direct line 
which would bypass the campus switch
board and thus save time in a real emergen
cy. Heres the number: 687-7717. Please 
put it near your closest phone. On a cam
pus line you may continue to call ext. 666.
Auto theft was a big problem last year. 
We hope that auto theft .and parking con
trol will be improved with the installation 
of parking gates on the major campus lots. 
These will generally require card activation 
at entry as well as exitthus a more secure 
lot.
from left: meter maid Joyce Grindle, Security secretary Carol Wendland, 
Officer Robert Anderegg
Photo by Ray Scholz
The accent is on mobility, visibility, 
communications and a close relationship 
with local police in an effort to maintain 
your safety. We now have two well equip
ped and highly visible vehicles for emergancy response and patrol, and are in the pro
cess of obtaining a smaller vehicle for inter
nal patrol, especially at night on the cam
pus grounds. A new, more powerful, radio 
system is on order which should give us a 
more reliable communications network be
tween the officers. In addition, the emer
gency phones located next to the fire mon
itoring stations in front of Mudge, Donner, 
and Doherty Grad House have been 
marked with visibility paint. They are for 
use as a dirsct line to Security to quickly 
communicate the existence of any emer
gency. Please note where they are and use 
them when trouble occurs.
Some prevention tips to new students 
are:
To prevent robbert or assault: 1 )dont 
walk or work in isolated spots aloneespec
ially at night 2) dont flash money when 
you buy something 3) be particularly care
ful on nights of campus parties, dances or 
activities 4) report suspicious persons 
, To prevent theft or burglary 1) keep 
valuables locked up 2) lock your door 3) 
record serial numbers 4) report suspicious 
persons
Our office is located at Baker Hall 155, 
just opposite the Post Office. Drop by and 
get acquaintedand remember us in an 
emergency.
CUT OUTPUT NEAR YOUR 
PHONEEMERGENCYDONT 
PANICCALL SECURITY
SECURITY DIRECT LINE 683-7717; 
CAMPUS LINE ext. 666
CALL: State Problem, Location and 
Description
Hold the line while Security sends help. 
Security will come back on the line and 
ask more questions.
REMEMBER:
If Robbed: 1 ) Dont resist. 2) Descrip
tion of robbers 3) Description of method 
of escape (auto tag) 4) Armedgun/knife 
5) Property stolen 6) Remember what rob
ber may have touchedprints
If Injured: 1) Dont practice first aid 
unless you know what youre doing 2) 
Dont move persons with possible spinal 
injuries or broken bones 3) Direct firm 
pressure with cloth on wound will stop 
most bleeding 4) Dont administer fluids 
If Fire: 1 ) Sound alarm 2) If small, use 
extinguisherpull the pin 3) If large, get 
out 4) If the door is hot, feel knobgo out 
window if low. Help is on the way
If Burglarized 1 ) Dont touch anythingprints are most important 2) Remember 
suspicious persons who might have been 
casing your room
The DESCRIPTION: What we need: 
race, sex, age, heingt, weight, complexion, 
hair style, wearing (color and style) hat. 
coat, shirt, slacks, shoes, armedknife or 
gun, scars, teeth, marks, jewelery, glasses, 
beard, method and direction of escape, 
auto tag and make.
Parking Fees Set; 
System Revamped
THE TARTAN  Tuesday, Spetember 5, 1972  Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 THE TARTAN  Tuesday, Spetember 5, 1972
New Documents Available
Several new documents and revisions of 
previously published material of interest to 
customers of the Computation Center are 
now available. The titles of these pub
lications, their prices and where they may 
be obtained are as follows:
1. PLAGO USERS GUIDE, $2.00, 
Bookstore.
2. TYPESET - A TSS Subsystem for 
Text Editing and Remote Job Entry, $1.00 
(special introductory price), Bookstore.
3. YORK APL Users Guide, $.55, 
Bookstore.
4. CALCOMP Users Manual (with up
date pages), $1.65, Bookstore.
5. TORAH (TSS Operating Recipes and 
Hints), $2.50, Bookstore.
6. TEKTRONIX Manual, $6.25, Book
store.
7. APL--Attributes and Advantages, 
free, third floor service counter.
8. UNITREC, free, third floor service 
counter.
9. New Print and Punch Destinations for 
1108 Jobs, free, third floor service counter.
10. Changes in Version 8.1 of TSS, free, 
third floor service counter.
Passwords Required For ALL SYSTEMS
To gain access to any Computation Cen
ter systems (both batch and conver
sational), you are now required to use a 
password. In addition, a password is re
quired as the new 11th parameter of the 
DATASET control card.
This is intended to protect your account 
against other customers who might 
accidentally or intentionally use your 
account number.
Under the new account application pro
cedure, a password must be listed for each 
person authorized to use the account. 
When the application is processed, the 
assigned password will become valid for the 
particular account number/customer num
ber combination for each system you are 
allowed to use, with the exception of TSS.
If you are authorized to use TSS, you 
will have only one TSS password, regard
less of the number of accounts to which 
you are permitted to charge TSS usage. 
The first time you log on to TSS, the 
system will ask you to enter your new 
password.
In MTT TYPESET, each account num
ber has its own password. If you also have 
a TSS usage number, it is recommended 
that you have the same password(s) for 
TYPESET as TSS. Similar procedures are 
used by WATFIV, PL/C, UNITREC and 
PLAGO.
Since you are responsible for your own 
password security,you are advised to 
change your password(s) soon after you are 
joined to the system(s) listed on your 
application. It is also recommended that 
passwords be changed at least every six 
months for your own protection.
Instructions for creating and changing 
TSS passwords can be found in CMU Doc
umentation-1, Introduction to TSS: 
IBMs Time Sharing System.
Information on passwords for the other 
systems can be obtained at the service 
counter on the third floor of Science Hall.
New Interpreter Now Available
Because of frequent card jams and gen
eral unreliability, the UN1VAC 1710 card 
interpreter in the customer area on the 
third floor has been replaced by an IBM 
557 Card Interpreter.
The IBM 557 interprets cards at the rate
Computing News
Rate Schedule
The following rate schedule went into effect Sept. 1, 1972, 
schedule are marked with arrows.
Changes from the last
IBM 360/67 TSS
Base Charge
Connect Time
General TSS Class R 
Class S*
Class T**
MTT-APL .
MTT-TYPESET-RUNOFF-RJE
$l/custno/mo.
$4.50/hour
$10/hour
$25/hour
$.25/hour 
$.25/hour
Off-Line Storage 
Page Requests (no.
of requests) 
Printing
Print Job Surcharge 
Punching
Punch Job Surcharge 
Read Tape Command
$.0005/page/day 
$.000005/hr. CPU 
time/request 
$.01/page jl
$.0006/line 
$.25/job 
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$10/command 
$.001/record^
CPU Time
Converst ional:
Public MTT-APL-TYPESETRUNOFF-RJE $180/hour
Class R + Private MTT $150/hour
Special Print Train 
Printing by Special 
Train +
Tape Mounting 
Tape Drive Use
(1/4 hr. increments) 
Tape Storage
(1 mo. increments) 
Tape Library Entrance 
Fee**
THAW Command 
THAW Later Command 
Use of Unlined 
White Paper 
Virtual Memory 
Conversat ional 
Batch****
$5/request 
$.01/page j
$.0012/line 
$l/mount 
$10/hour
$.50/tape/month
Class S* $270/hour
Class T** $420/hour
+Batch:
Class A $225/hour
Class B $150/hour
Class C  $110/hour
Class D $75/hour
Class S Command $2/command
Class T Command $5/command
Card Input $.001/card
Card Input Surcharge $l/job
(There is no surcharge on decks read in 
by the customer on the card reader.)
On-Line Storage
Non-migratable $.015/page/day
Migratable $.007/page/day
*Class S - higher priority conversational CPU Time only. $2 Surcharge/command.
**Class T - higher priority conversational and compute-bound CPU Time. $5 Surcharge/command, 
***A11 tapes must be entered in the tape library. If a reel is submitted for a job
and then returned to the customer, the library entrance fee ($2) and the tape storage 
fee (.50) will be charged for each submittal. ^
****Page hours batch = page hours x CPU Time (hours) x 
#Page count is by page eject or every 66 lines.
$2/entry 
$2.50/command 
$.50/command
$5/request
$.01/page hour 
$.01/page hr. batch
habitation time
WATFIV, PLC & PLAGO
CPU Time
Compile Time
Up to 2 seconds $180/hour
Over 2 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour 
Execution Time (3 sec. max.)
Up to 1 second $180/hour
Over 1 sec.(by spec.req.) $360/hour
Printing
Card Reading
128 cards or less 
Over 128 cards
$.02/page 
$.08/page
$.0005/card 
$.001/card
PDP-8 TSS/8
Base Charge 
Connect Time
No charge Storage $.002/segment(256 words)/day
$.25/hour CPU Time $9/hour
4- Please note that Batch classes formerly designated E, F and A have been changed 
to A, B and C, respectively.
of 80 cards/minute (faster than the 1710) 
and is expected to be more reliable. Com
plete instructions for operating the IBM 
557 are pasted on its top. Please note that 
cards must be run through the machine 
twice in order to interpret all 80 card col
umns.
You will notice that there are two rows 
of numbers printed across the top of the 
card. The top row, containing numbers 
1-80, corresponds with the actual columns 
on the card. The bottom row, with num
bers 1-60, corresponds with the position of 
the columns as they will be printed on the 
interpreter.
The new interpreter has a BCD char
acter set, as does the 1108 computer. The 
EBCDIC character set (360 computer) can 
also be interpreted but special characters 
may print as other characters or they may 
not print at all. A table showing how the 
special characters from the Model 29 key
punch will print is also pasted on the top 
of the interpreter.
New Terminals in Comp. Center
UNITREC (UNIT RECord), a batch fac
ility under TSS, enables you to obtain a 
punched deck and/or listing of records 
stored on cards (including Optical Mark 
Reader cards) in TYPESET buffers or in 
datasets.
With the addition of a new character 
translation option, it can now also be used 
to translate from 360 (EBCDIC) characters 
to 1108 (BCD) characters and vice versa.
You can use UNITREC in either of two 
ways: 1) by reading in a card deck to the 
customer card reader on the third floor of 
Science Hall, or 2) by submitting a job to 
UNITREC through the TYPESET remote 
job entry facility. (For more information 
on the latter, see the new TYPESET doc
ument, TYPESET - A TSS Subsystem for 
Text-Editing and Remote Job Entry.
A two-page document on UNITREC is 
available at the service counter on the third 
floor.
Use UNITREC to Change Character Set 
Version 8.1 Of TSS Installed
Several Compunetics 1472 terminals 
have been installed in the public terminal 
room on the fifth floor of Science Hall. 
They, like the teletypes in that room, are 
directly connected to TSS.
With Keyboards similar to the IBM Selectric Typewriter, the Comupnetics ter
minals have a much larger character set 
than the teletypes and include upper and 
lower case characters. Some of the new 
terminals may eventually be equipped with 
the APL character set.
The Computation Center is interested in 
hiring students as parttime programmer/- 
operators and technical writers. Anyone in
terested should fill out an application in 
5216 Science Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Prepare Cards Without a Keypunch
Computation Center customers will 
soon ab able to prepare cards without the 
use of a keypunch.
Known as OMR (Optical Mark Reader) 
cards, they are prepared by blackening a 
series of printed squares with a pencil in
stead of keypunching. OMR cards can be 
used for any TSS system, and can be mixed 
freely with punched cards in a deck.
Tuesday. September 5, 1972 - Page 7
The new cards will be dispensed through 
vending machines in the customer pre
paration area on the third floor of Science Advantages of Using APL 
Hall.
THE TARTAN
Job Surcharge 
CPU Time - Class D:
CPU Time Used
0-1 minute
1-2 minutes
2-4 minutes 
4-10 minutes 
10-24 minutes 
24-48 minutes 
over 48 minutes
UNIVAC 1108 EXEC II 
$l/job
Charge
$420/hour
$7/first min. + $300/hour/each additional min. 
$12/first 2 min. + $150/hour/each additional min.
$17/first 4 min. + $60/hour/each additional min.
$23/first 10 min. + $30/hour/each additional min.
+ $75/hour/each additional min.
+ $150/hour/each additional min.
$30/first 24 min. 
$60/first 48 min.
Class A: 1.1 times Class D PRINTING*, PUNCHING, CARD INPUT AND TAPE HANDLING
Class F: 1.3 times Class D charges are the same as for the 360. At present,
Class E: 2.0 times Class D there is no charge for tape drive use on the 1108.
*There is no print job surcharge for jobs printed at the customer printer, 
customer is responsible for retrieving his output from this printer.
(see 360)
The
PLOTTER - CALCOMPHYBRID EAI 680/PDP-9
Job Surcharge $l/job
Plotter Use $2/hour
Plotter paper (12" wide) $.02/inch
Colored Ballpoint $2/job
Liquid Ink $10/job
Felt Tip Pen $3/job
(There is no charge for mounting the 
standard plot tape for plotter output 
on either the 360 or the 1108.)
UNITREC - Duplicating and Listing Service
Printing $.04/page Punching
(Jobs submitted at the customer card reader Punch Job Surcharge
are printed at the WATFIV printer.) Card Input
Computer Use:
First shift weekdays
Second and third shift 
. weekdays, weekends, 
legal holidays 
Patch Boards 
Strip Recorder Paper
$20/hour (1/4 
hr. increments)
$10/hour (1/4 
hr. increments) 
$l/day 
$.05/inch
$.005/card 
$.50/job 
$.001/card
Account Number
Creation of New Accounts
Addition of Customer to Existing Acct
Reallocation of Funds Between Accounts
Locker Storage*
Programming Consultation
Other Charges and Services
$2/account number/month 
$5 4- $l/customer number 
$2/customer number 
$l/transfer
$3/Fall Semester; $3/Spring Semester; 
$3/Summer; $5/Full Year 
$3 1/4 hour
(Limited use only. Non-occasional demand will be referred to Programming Services.) 
Programming and Engineering Service* $10/hour and up
(Limited availability. Rate will be based on personnel involved.)
Acoustical Couplers* Approximately $300
Teletype Purchase* Approximately $650
(Requests for maintenance or information about purchase of teletypes should 
be directed to the Computation Center main office, Ext. 197.)
Maintenance of Teletypes*(Model 33 only.) $10/hour + materials
Special Handling $5/request/minimum
(Special requests will be honored whenever possible. A $5 minimum will be charged for 
any request honored, and up to $25 may be charged without consulting the requester.) 
PDP-11 Paper Tape Reader $5/surcharge; $10/hour (1/4 hour increments)
Tape Cleaning $2.50/tape
Tape Cases* $3.25 - available in Science Hall 5216
Available from the Bookstore*: 24001 magnetic tapes for the 1108 and 360/67;
DEC tapes for the PDP-8, PDP-9, and PDP-11; teletype roll paper; and teletype ribbon
*CMU computing funds cannot be used for these services. Any other source may be used.
Photo by Ray Scholz
APL (A Programming Language) is the 
only conversational computing system 
available on the 360 at CMU that you can 
access from a remote terminal without en
tering TSS.
It costs much less than TSS because it 
operates as an MTT (Multi-Terminal Task) 
subsystem, and therefore requires less time 
than TSS. The connect time charge for 
APL is only $.25/hour and the CPU time 
rate is $ 180/hour.
APL is an interactive programming lan
guage. This means that you can interact 
with your programs while they are running-to enter data, receive results, or even 
modify the programs themselves.
APL supplies over 100 primitive func
tions, including simple arithmetic, trigon
ometric and hyperbolic functions and com
plex matrix manipulation. It also has a 
series of functions that can change the 
shape of an array or extract a subset with
out changing the values of the individual 
elements.
The array operations of APL make it a 
good language for scientific problems, text 
handling and general data processing, since 
arrays are fundamental to all of these 
applications.
You can apply to use APL by sub
mitting the standard account authorization 
form available at the Computation Center 
office in 5216 Science Hall.
More information on the APL system 
used at CMU (YORK APL) is contained in 
the YORK APL Users Guide, which is sold 
in the bookstore. Two additional learning 
texts, also available in the bookstore, are 
APL/360, An Interactive Approach by Gil
man and Rose, and APL/360 by Pakin.
Print Your Own Datasets On New Terminal
A new terminal which enables Com
putation Center customers to print small 
datasets themselves has been placed on the 
service counter in the third floor customer 
area. The datasets, which are limited to 12 
pages, are rapidly printed on the WATFIV 
printer just right of the service counter.
In the futer, these datasets will print on 
the high speed printer at the left of the 
counter and there will be no page limits.
The terminal for this facility is always 
turned on always connected to TYPESET. 
To print a dataset, all you need do is enter 
the name of the TSS dataset you wish to 
print, followed by your customer number 
and account number. The keyword 
EDIT may also be specified following 
your account number if the dataset has 
edit codes you want to be observed. You 
will then be asked to enter your TSS pass
word.
For example, the line dataset XX00 
Z000 EDIT would print the dataset 
named dataset which is owned by XX00 
and charge it to account Z000, using the 
carriage control characters in dataset.
To print a TYPESET dataset, you must 
include the keyword TYPESET between 
the dataset name and customer number. 
When 1108 datasets are routed to the 360 
by specifying the parameter 360 on the 
RUN card, they are stored in TYPESET 
datasets. Such print files must be printed 
using the EDIT keyword to correctly 
provide paper spacing, and the 
TYPESET keyword since they are 
TYPESET datasets.
For example, the line PRXXXX TYPE
SET XX00 Z000 EDIT would produce 
the print file from the 1108 job with se
quence number XXXX.
Additional information can be found in 
New Print and Punch Destinations for 
1108 Jobs, available free at the service 
counter. continued

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 THE TARTAN  Tuesday, September 5, 1972
Erase Unneeded Datasets
Now that new accounts are being est
ablished, you will probably want to erase 
many unneeded datasets. Remember that 
all executable object modules compiled 
from your source datasets are placed in 
your USERLIB, and that erasing your 
source datasets does not erase the object 
programs compiled from them.
Object modules now existing in your 
USERLIB will be charged to your new 
default charge account (which is the first 
account to which you are joined unless you 
specify otherwise).
To find out the object modules in your 
USERLIB, issue: POD USERLIB.
If you wish to retain a particular object 
program, but want its storage charged to a 
different account, specify: DSCHG
dsname, account number.
If you wish to erase individual object 
modules, issue: ERASE USERLIB(object 
module name), including the parentheses 
around the object module name.
Do not issue the ERASE command with 
only USERLIB as an operand, even if you 
wish to erase all the object modules in your 
USERLIB.To do so would erase not only 
your USERLIB and all the programs in it, 
but also any control information the sys
tem needs to provide your operating en
vironment (such as information specified 
by any DEFAULTS, BUILTINs, SYN
ONYMS, or messages you may have 
issued).
WATFIV Time Limits
WATFIV has been changed to allow 
you to separately specify compiletime 
and execute-time limits. The option 
COMP=n will permit n seconds of com
pilation (up to two seconds for most 
accounts). The option TIME=n will per
mit n seconds of execution (up to one 
second for most accounts).
Requests for authorization to specify 
greater times should be made by the de
partment head and directed to the Com
putation Center office through the account 
administrator.
PLAGO--New PL/I Translator
PLAGO (Polytechnic Load and Go), a 
fast PL/I interpretive translator, will be in 
use this fall at the CMU Computation Cen
ter. Developed at the Polytechnic Institute 
of Brooklyn, PLAGO features a very fast 
job time (the time needed to translate and 
run a program), usually less than one se
cond. In addition, a large number of error 
messages point out mistakes to help make 
the writing of a successful program easier.
PLAGO was designed specifically for 
use by a large number of students through 
the use of batched runs. It is particularly 
suited for use by engineering and science 
students, since it utilizes a large 
scientificallyoriented subset of the PL/I 
language.
A list of statements implemented in 
PLAGO and descriptions of the use of each 
statement are provided in the PLAGO 
USERs GUIDE, on sale in the bookstore 
for $2.00. Insert pages containing instruc
tions needed to run PLAGO at CMU (a 
simple process requiring the use of five 
additional cards) are included with the 
PLAGO USERS GUIDE.
Help in Processing Defective Tapes
A new option has been added, to assist 
individuals who must process defective 
magnetic tapes or tapes which deviate from 
the standard (such as tapes produced by 
some incremental recorders).
The N option, when used on the ASG 
card, is: N ASG A=HU00AA, where 
HU00AA is the tapename. It suppresses 
operator intervention on tape errors and 
returns an error status after built-in re
covery procedures have failed. Any data 
transferred is left intact and may be pro
cessed as appropriate.
There is also another feature which may 
aid in the processing of non-standard tapes. 
If the A option is supplied on the ASG 
card, records which do not contain a mult
iple of six characters (1108 words) will not 
be considered in error. The last word tran
sferred is filled with binary zeros. Note 
that if the record is read backward, the 
alignment of characters within words will 
not be the same as when read forward if 
the record length is not a multiple of six 
characters.
Photo by Ray Scholz
Version 8.1 of TSS Installed
Version 8.1 of TSS, the 360/67 oper
ating system, was installed over the 
summer at the Computation Center. Most 
programmers will find that there is little or 
no difference in the way their programs 
run.
A complete list of these minor changes 
and improvements can be obtained at the 
service counter in the third floor customer 
area.
More detailed information on the 8.1 
operating system is contained in an IBM 
document entitled Version 8.1 Command 
System Users Guide. Reference copies 
are available in the keypunch area and the 
public terminal room.
Lockers Available On Third Floor
Lockers are now available for rental on 
the third floor of Science Hall. Fees for the 
various rental periods are:
$3/Fall Semester (until the last day of 
finals)
$3/ Spring Semester (first day of Spring 
registration to last day of finals)
$3/Summer (day after Spring finals to 
the day before Fall registration)
$5/ Full Year (12 months, beginning in 
September)
CMU institutional allocations may not 
be used for this service. However, any 
other source, such as cash or grant funds, is 
acceptable.
Arrangements for rental can be made in 
the Computation Center office, 5216 
Science Hall.
Output Storage Time Limited
The Computation Center would like to 
remind you that the customer shelves near 
the WATFIV printer are intended for tem
porary storage of output printed or punch
ed in the machine area.
Such output is filed at intervals of about 
30 minutes. It should be retrieved as soon 
as possible (although it is kept for two 
weeks before discarding).
Material to be stored for longer periods 
should be kept in the lockers in the cus
tomer area. Arrangements for locker rental 
can be made in 5216 Science Hall.
Introductory Price For New 
TYPESET Manual
A new manuel designed to make learn
ing TYPESET as easy as possible is now on 
sale at the bookstore. Entitled TYPESET 
- A TSS Subsystem for Text Editing and 
Remote Job Entry, the document is being 
sold at an introductory price of $1.00, but 
will regularly sell for approximately $2.50.
TYPESET was originally developed as a 
text editing and formatting system for con
versational use under TSS. Last year, it was 
modified to include a remote job entry 
facility for TSS, WATFIV and 1108 cus
tomers.
Because of its simplicity and low cost, 
TYPESET is especially recommended for 
students and beginning programmers. The 
new document contains a basic outline of 
TYPESETs features and a complete des
cription of the system with numerous ex
amples. A set of instructional primers is 
also included to give the student immediate 
hands-on experience in the use of TYPE
SET
Revised Manual Aids Learning TSS
A revised version of TORAH, TSS Op
erating Recipes And Hints, is now on sale 
in the bookstore for $2.50. TORAH con
tains a series of introductory how to 
modules on the use of TSS. It covers such 
areas as FORTRAN compilation, dataset 
creation and management, and the various 
features of TYPESET.
Produced by the GSIA staff and origin
ally intended for GSIA students, this man
ual is useful to both novice and exper
ienced programmers in all departments. 
TORAH is not menat to replace Com
putation Center or IBM documentation but 
rather to complement them with an 
easy-to-follow primer on TSS and its sub
systems.
Change in 
Parameters for 360 Plot Dataset
New parameters have been added to the 
account number and customer number 
statement which follows the BATCH 
PLOTTER line in a 360 plot dataset,
A password parameter of up to eight 
characters is now required for plot jobs as 
it is for all other jobs. If no password or a 
blank password is encountered, ILLEGAL 
PASSWORD FOUND. ( NONE ). will be 
plotted.
Thus, $x999HU00,PASSWORD (PEN
& PAPER PARAMETERS) would supply 
the account number and customer number 
to be charged for the plot time and plot 
paper.
If you do not have a password already, 
you can create a password by placing one 
in the password position. To change an 
already existing password, it is still 
necessary to use a $PASS card (the form is 
$PASS newpassword). In either case, the 
password must not contain any blanks or 
commas.
Two new parameters, PEN and PAPER, 
have been added to the plotter to specify 
non-default paper sizes and pen types. The 
new parameters can be placed anywhere 
after the password position, (position 2), 
and in any order.
For example, 
 $ B 9 9 9 B B 0 0 , B B B B B B B B,PAPER=12,PEN=felt would produce a 
plot for BB00 under account number B999 
whose password is BBBBBBBB on 12-inch 
paper and using a felt tip pen.
If either a keyword or a parameter is 
incorrect, a plot will be produced with an 
appropriate error message and an eight 
character field enclosed in parentheses be
ginning with the item in error.
The following are the acceptable pen 
types:
PEN=pen Ball Point Pen (CURRENT 
DEFAULT)
PEN=felt Felt Tip Pen 
PEN=0.2 0.2mm Point Liquid Ink Pen 
PEN=0.4 0.4mm Point Liquid Ink Pen 
PEN=0.5 0.5mm Point Liquid Ink Pen 
The following are the acceptable paper 
sizes:
PAPER=12 12-Inch Paper (CURRENT 
DEFAULT)
PAPER=30 30-Inch Paper
These new plotter features are con
tained in update pages to the CALCOMP 
Plotter Manual (sold in the bookstore). 
Those who already own plotter manuals 
may obtain these update pages at the ser
vice counter on the third floor of Science 
Hall.
smile!

---------------------------------------------------

Joe Gasparella, head football coach at 
CMU, was looking to replace some key 
losses when he met his 1972 squad at opening-day practice Wednesday, August 23.
Graduation losses took a big hunk out 
of the Tartan starting offense in particular, 
but Coach Gasparella will also need to find 
some replacements on his starting defensive 
squad. The situation is aggravated by what 
looms as an especially severe depth pro
blem this season. Only 33 candidates are 
expected out, including 14 returning lettermen and 11 freshmen. With cuts and drop
outs, the squad could settle in around 25.
In general, the CMU offense should pre
sent a good passingattack, and the defense 
should be tough to run against. If the Tar
tans develop a running game and the de
fensive secondary comes through, they 
could become title contenders in this, their 
first year in the Presidents Athletic Con
ference.
Gone from Gasparellas offensive backfield are the high-scoring trio of quarter
back Richie Squires and running backs 
Tom Lombardo and Terry Bell.
Stepping into Squires shoes will be 
Kiski Areas Jim Allera, who has been the 
backup quarterback for the past two years 
and has proved effective in relief. The jun
ior quarterback will have two outstanding 
receivers to throw to in senior Charlie Price 
of Franklin Regional, and juniorBrian Carlock, from Charleroi. Carlock led all scores 
last year with 50 points, seven TDs coming 
via pass receptions. From his split end po
sition he caught 37 passes for 609 yards. 
Flanker back Price caught 20 passes last 
year for 386 yards and four TDs. In his 
freshman year he caught 34 for 646 yards 
and six touchdowns. Although none are 
lette'rmen, three tight ends will be return
ing for the Plaid: Charles Rizzuto, a junior 
from Derry Area; Bob Maletic, a soph
omore from Hyattsville, Md.; and John
Tartan Gridders launch their offense in last year's homecoming match.
Slava, a sophomore from Munhall.
Likely replacements for Lombardo and 
Bell are Bob Curtis, a diminutive speedster 
from Monaca, and Chris OLeary, a veteran 
starter from Wilkinsburg. Curtis, a soph
omore, averaged 30 yards per kickoff re
turn last season, and OLeary, a senior, has 
averaged better than three yards a carry 
over the past two seasons.
The center of the offensive line should 
see three lettermen returning: George Pav
lik at center, a senior from West Mifflin 
North; and guards John Moore, a junior 
from Laurel Valley, and Tom Loughran, a 
sophomore from Central Catholic. The
only returning offensive tackle is Jim Stupar, a nonlettering sophomore from Mun
hall.
On defense, the Tartans will again have 
a strong corps of linebackers. Three letter
men return at linebacker: Mike Bralkowski, 
a junior from Beaver Area; Ray Terza, sen
ior from Duquesne; and John Sabol, a sen
ior from Uniontown Area. Returning up 
front are three-year letterman Art Hunkele, 
a senior from North Catholic, and soph
omore Phil LaGatta, a lettermam from 
Rochester.
Although the defensive secondary has
 four lettermen returning, two of them have 
had little experience at defense. Likely
starters are: John Radic, a junior from 
Monongahela; Ron Shinault, a junior from 
Yonkers, N.Y^Mike Stevens, a senior from 
Cleveland Heights; and Terry Lyskava, a 
1 sophomore from West Mifflin North.
Of the 11 freshmen expected to turn 
out, Gasparella figures six of them could 
make some real first-year contributions to 
the team; Mark Balent, a fullback from 
Homestead; Dave McCrossin, a running 
back from Swissvale; Martin Gannon, tack
le from South Hills Catholic; Audie Stokes, 
cornerback from Avalon; Bill Reppa, a cen
ter from Souderton, Pa.; and Phil Buller, a 
defensive end from McLean, Va.
H&SS Grade Policy Set
117 a ~   -1 * _ , A M . 1 ^ 4* L - IT 0- O O r 'v 1  ri n /A 11 a a il Olli' A nnO il 1C* Oil Vn
The Pittsburgh Steelers held practice sessions last week at CMUs Tech Field. The 
visiting celebrities were observed through the days by crowds of armchair quarter
backs from the CMU community. General consensus among the spectators was ex
pressed by one observant observer as, "They sure were BIG Muthas!"
On Wednesday, April 26, the H&SS Col
lege Council decided that:
1) students will be given grades in all 
courses unless they specifically arrange (see
2, below) for pass/fail in some of all of 
their courses;
2) a committee or committees will be 
set up to which students may make re
quests to take some or all of their courses 
pass/fail (Dean Steinberg will work with 
the department heads to develop a proce
dure which will throw as much responsibili
ty as possible f<^r such decisions on the 
departments and yet maintain some reason
able college policy.);
3) honest, informative evaluations, as 
complete as possible, will continue for all 
H&SS students in all courses;
4) once a student has opted for pass/failCity Wide Anti War Campaign Planned
den, demonstrations against figureheads oi in inaochina must be recognition of a poli-John Haer
Pittsburgh anti-war activists have an
nounced the formation of a unified organi
zation this fall called Pittsburgh Indochina 
Peace Compaign to agitate and make avail
able resource and educational materials 
that focus on an immediate military withdrawl of all U.S. military forces from Indo
china and an end to U.S. political and 
economic support for the Thieu regime in 
Vietnam.
The fall campaign is two-fold: first, to 
build a politically independent anti-war or
ganization which cann afford the opportu
nity for many people to participate; sec
ond, to publicize and organize for a series 
of actions this fall that so far include ap
pearances by Jane Fonda and Tom Haythe Republican campaign, picketing of the 
Federal Building both before and after the 
elections, and a series of films and slide 
shows.
The basis for membership in the cam
paign will be the signing of a pledge. All 
pledge signers will then be urged to attend 
a large anti-war assembly in late Septem
ber.
Ann Hill, a spokesperson for PIPC, em
phasized that the next three months are 
curcial ones for anti-war forces. A strong 
and politically independent anti-war organ
ization, she stressed, can best keep the war 
issue primary in the minds of the American 
electorate. Our goal, she said, is to educate 
Pittsburghers who sincerely desire peace of 
the fradulent nature of Nixons so-called 
peace effort. The main issue for settlement
tical settlement which leaves Indochinese 
people free to control their own govern
ments. This means an absolute end to poli
tical intervention on the part of the U.S. 
government.
John Agaston, another spokesperson for 
PIPC, pointed out that fovorable military 
and political conditions now exist in Viet
nam for such a solution. The recent offen
sive has established control in much of the 
countryside previously claimed by Nixon 
and Thieu to have been Vietnamized.
Volunteers to work on the Indochina 
Peace Campaign can call 521-7047. Tables 
where the PICP pledges can be signed are 
being set up at all Pittsburgh college cam
puses and on Pittsburgh community 
streets.
in a course and sucfi a grade is submitted 
by the instructor, the student cannot re
quest that the grade be changed to a grade 
on the A, B, C scale (i.e., a pass cannot 
be changed into a letter grade retroactively 
or vice versa).
The H&SS departments have agreed on 
the following procedures:
A. University regulations permit one 
pass/fail course a semester in a free elec
tive. Students do not need to petition for 
permission to take a single elective course 
pass/fail.
B. A student who wishes to request 
pass/fail grades in more courses than allow
able under A must appear before a commit
tee established for that purpose by his de
partment.
C. Normally these committees will meet 
in September to hear petitions for the en
tire year.
D. If, after full explanation of potential 
problems, the petitioner still wants, 
pass/fail grades, the committee will grant 
that request for the academic year.
E. Committees will normally not look 
with favor on requests for a mix of regular 
grades (i.e., A, B, C, D, r) and pass/fail 
grades.
F. First-semester freshmen will be on 
pass/fail but may petition at the mid-se
mester grading period for letter grades. Se
cond-semester freshmen will be on letter 
grades, but may petition in February for 
pass/fail grades. Petitions should be submit
ted through Dean Lloyd.
Note: Each student may drop one 
course a semester without penalty, after 
the September 25th add-drop deadline. 
The last official day for dropping is three 
weeks before the end of the semsster.
Tartan Football 
Hurt By GradsTHE TARTAN - Tuesday, September 5, 1972 - Page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, September 5, 1972
Bat McGrath and Don Potter bdB1lE SlsCTIr
In Free Concert Saturday hV s:nssll dtlTo
This Saturday, September 9, the Act
ivities Board will present Bat McGrath and 
Don Potter, performing their own engaging 
blend of folk-rock in concert at 8:30 in the 
Skibo Ballroon.
Although not well-known nationally, 
the duo gain an enthusiastic following 
wherever they play for their original, re
freshing style and warm, sincere stage pres
ence. Since this is their first Pittsburgh 
appearance, it is a fine opportunity to see 
two excellent, up and coming musicians 
before they reach stardom.
Both McGrath and Potter are natives of 
Glen Falls, N.Y. and veterans of successful 
rock bands in the upper New York area. 
However, they found the rock genre too 
constricting, and decided that the best way 
to express themselves was through a mod
ern approach to folk music. After spending 
a nearly starving year in New York City 
writing material, the pair returned to 
Rochester to open a long running, highly 
successful coffeehouse, the only one in the 
area. According to their manager, they 
closed the coffeehouse late in 1970 to de
vote their full time to concerts.
McGrath and Potter play an interesting 
array of instruments. Don Potter is an ex
pert musician on his several guitars (steel, 6 
and 12 string), and plays with a skill and 
intensity rarely seen in todays groups. An 
accomplished vocalist in his own right, his 
strong appealing voice blends with 
McGraths to form tight, rich harmonies 
that are lilting to the ear. Complementing
his own vocal style, McGrath plays the
antique guitarrn, along with Mexican and 
acoustic base. Both play harmonies on
many of their songs, and Don also plays
electric guitar for several folk-rock num
bers.
Student Gallery
The CMU Students Gallery is ecstatic 
to announce that this fall it, once again, 
will be open to serve the CMU student 
artists, the CMU campus, and the commu
nity.
The Gallery is an organization directed 
by students, funded by Student Senate, 
and functioning as a result of the participa
tion of its student members: the artists and 
the gallery attendants.
To exhibit in a regular show, an artist 
must be a CMU student. He does not have 
to be studying in the field of Fine Arts. 
Any work that the artist feels can be 
shown will be accepted by the gallery. Fi
nal decision on the work to be displayed is 
up to the directors.
The CMU Students Gallery takes a 20% 
commission of the sale price of sold art 
work. Half of the 20% is paid to the univer
sity, and the other 10% is used toward 
operation and maintenance costs of the 
Gallery.
The Gallery always supplies, free of 
charge to the artist, publicity consisting of 
press releases to local newspapers and peri
odicals, posters, and announcements to its 
extensive mailing list.
Seven exhibits are planned for first se
mester by the Students Gallery, of which 
the first is an exhibition of the work by 
CMU Fine Arts Graduate students. It will 
be showing September 12 through 23, 
Tuesday-Saturday, 1 lam-8 pm.
Their music may be best exemplified by 
their first album entitled, Introducing Bat 
McGrath and Don Potter. The album, 
which includes all original songs, effec
tively captures the essence of their live 
performances, that is, the warm, refreshing 
style that has brought them critical acclaim 
all through the New England area. In conert, they sing many of their own songs, as 
well as thers compositions (Beatles, Dylan, 
etc.), in a well coordinated blend of voices 
and guitars. Their lyrical sound is quite 
infectious and their shows prove they are 
genuinely enthusiastic about playing for 
people.
All in all, the Saturday concert looks to 
be a musical event of some note. Ad
mission is free to CMU students. $1.50 for 
non-students, and all are invited to join in 
the fun. Come and see McGrath and Don 
Potter singing and playing just for you.
Gurdon F. Flagg, president, and Dr. 
Richard Karp, general director of Pitts
burgh Opera, have announced that sub
scriptions for the 1972-73 season of six 
exciting productions are now available to 
the general public.
Dr. Karp reported that Pittsburgh Opera 
will present 12 performances of six operas 
on Thursday and Saturday evenings at 
Heinz Hall during the coming season.
The operas will be Carmen, Rigoletto, 
The Flying Dutchman, Tosca, Nabucco, 
and Madam Butterfly, presented from early 
October through early March.
We believe we have something for ev
erybodythe old favorites, a splendid Wag
nerian piece, and a famous work never seen 
here before, Dr Karp said. To insure 
peak enjoyment of these productions, we 
have engaged artists not only from the Met
ropolitan Opera, but from leading opera 
companies throughout the world. And, we 
have the truly great Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra to accompany them, Dr. Karp 
said.
Among the artists who will appear are
The Fall concert series is a blend of two 
theories of presentation which will be sure 
to thrill you all. There will be an AB spon
sored concert every two weeks, starting 
this week, and running through till Thanks
giving. In all there will be 6 concerts, 3 of 
which will be free to CMU students and 
will be held in the Skibo Ballroon. The 
other 3 concerts will be held off comapus 
at the Syria Mosque, the Carnegie Music 
Hall, and for the first time Soldiers and 
Sailors Hall. The admission to these three 
offcampus concerts will be, of course, 
low.
The first of the on-campus conerts will 
be this weekend, and will feature Bat 
McGrath and Don Potter. If youre in
terested in what kind of music you will be 
hearing, theres another article in this issue 
which will tell you all about them. Tickets 
will be free; all you have to do is go the
Tatiana Troyanos, Ellen Shade, Sherrill 
Milnes, Nicholas Di Virgilio, Patricia Wise, 
Claire Watson, Paul Plishka, Thomas Stew
art, Evelyn Lear, Rod MacWherter, Thomas 
Tipton, Justino Diaz and Clarice Carson.
Persons interested in securing season 
subscriptions for Pittsburgh Opera may ob
tain a free, colorful brochure by writing or 
calling Pittsburgh Opera at Heinz Hall, 600 
Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh 15222, tele
phones 281-0912, 281-1279.
The Carnegie Institute Museum of Art, 
on Forbes Avenue in Oakland, has announ
ced a schedule of special exhibitions for 
the 72-73 season. All exhibits are on the 
third floor.
One-man Exhibition: Paintings by Laris
sa Osby, September 10- October 15
One-man Exhibition: Woven Forms 
by Louis Pierucci, October 22-November 26 
Fresh Air School: Sam Francis, Joan 
Mitchell, Walasse Ting, October 27- JanuSkibo Information Desk and show you ID 
card to get tickets.
On September 23, the Activities Board 
will present the Mahavishnu Orchestra, 
with John McLaughlin. The Mahavishnu 
Orchestra, in their rapid rise to superstar 
status, have stunned audiences all across 
the country, and is certain to be a huge 
success here as well. Tickets for this con
cert will go on sale on September 11. If 
you dont want to miss a fantastic concert, 
get your tickets early, as this is sure to be a 
sell out.
Two weeks later, on October 7, the sec
ond Ballroom concert will feature Paul 
Winter Consort. The Consort, staring Paul 
Winter on Sax, is a six man combo which 
combines pop, jazz and classical and will 
provide a unique listening experience for 
all. Tickets for this concert are free, and 
can be picked up at the Skibo Info Desk 
anytime after September 20.
The annual Homecoming concert, on 
October 20, will feature Mark/Almond. 
Mark/Almond, which stars Jon Mark on 
guitar, and Jonny Almond on sax and 
flute. The band, currently playing to SRO 
audiences across Europe, combines jazz 
and rock together into a playing style 
which will excite anyone who hears the 
band. Mark/Almond have two albums out, 
entitiled Mark/Almond I and 
Mark/Almond II, and should have a third 
LP out soon. Those familiar with the band 
will know that they were once a part of a 
John Mayall Band, and recorded what is 
considered to be Mayalls best album - 
The .Turning Point. Tickets for this 
show, which will be held at the Syria 
Mosque, will go on sale September 25.
On November 11, the Jacques Loussier 
Trio will return to CMU. The Trio, one of 
the best known European jazz trios, thrill
ed the audience last year, and will be sure 
to do it again. The music is a blend of jazz 
and classical, and will be all Bach. Tickets 
for this show, to be held at the Carnegie 
Music Hall, will go on sale on October 15, 
and will be priced at $2.00 for^TMU stud
ents.
The final concert in the Fall schedule 
will feature Billy Joel, a talented young 
rock pianist who has been compared to
Elton John. After surviving the initial 
hype, sings strong original tunes in an 
equally strong voice which moves easily 
across a wide vocal range. His writing is 
pure pop in the best sense, with warm 
melodies and lyrics that utilize con
temporary imagery without falling into 
chic caricature. Instrumentally tight and 
varied, Joels trio of supporting musicians 
underscore his deft piano. The show, which 
will be on November 18, will be in the 
Ballroon at 8:30. Tickets, free for CMU 
students go on sale on October 23.
ary 7
One-man Exhibition: Sculptures by Lois 
Kaufmann, December 3- January 7
One-man Exhibition: Paintings by Watfa 
Midani, January 14- February 25
63rd Annual Exhibition of the Associeted rtists of Pittsburgh, March 9- April 12 
The gallery is open 10 am to 5 pm 
Monday through Saturday and 1 pm to 5 
pm on Sunday. The Museum will be closed 
Christmas and New Years days.
Shawn Phillips appeared at CMU last spring in an AB sponsored concert.
Art Museum Special Exhibitions

---------------------------------------------------

l% features Tilms, Special Evejts
THE TARTAN  Tuesday, September 5, 1972 - Page 11
The AB Films Committee once again 
presents a diversified movie series, which 
should appeal to all segments of the cam
pus community. The series will, with the 
exception of the all night horror festival, 
be on Friday nights, and admission will be
75 cents with an AB Film card. The movie 
schedule is as follows:\ September 8: Catch 22
September 15: Coming Apart 
September 22: S.T.A.G. Animation 
September 29,30: Gimme Shelter 
October 6: Day in the Life of Ivan Desonovitch
October 13: Festival of Twilight
Zone and Night Gallery
October 20, 22: Hellstrom Chronicle 
October 28: All Night Horror Festival 
November 3-5: Polanski Festival (Repul
sion and Cul-de-Sac)
Magruder Continued
followed by questions and comments from 
the audience. Magruder, who has been di
rected by President Nixon to bring ad
vanced technology to bear on major social 
and economic problems, will speak on 
Technology and National Goals. The 
symposiums five-man panel discussion will 
focus on Problems of Innovation in Large 
and Small Businesses.
Magruder sees the countrys major prob
lems as unemployment, highcost health 
care and education, law enforcement and 
drug abuse, environmental control, indus
trial productivity, urban development, 
mass transit, and the U.S. balance of trade. 
As a Presidential Consultant, he hopes to 
increase public awareness of what tech
nology means to the United States in terms 
of export dollars and jobs.
I am very much concerned, he says, 
that we are now losing our technological 
advantage in at least four vital industries: 
computers, exotic steels, civil aviation, and 
industrial machinery.
Magruder has also been quoted recently 
as saying that he thinks the once-rejected
5.5.T. project has a good chance of being 
revived, now that a technological break
through in engine design has made the 
supersonic transport as quiet as a con
ventional fan jet during take-offs and land
ings.
He will speak specifically about the
5.5.T. to CMU alumni and guests that 
evening on the CMU campus.
November 10: S.T.A.G. Porno 
November 17: The Liberation of L.B. 
Jones
December 1-3: Cassavetes Festival
(Faces, Husbands, Child in Waiting) 
December 8: S.T.A.G. Experimental 
Another exciting inovation to be pre
sented by the Activities Board will be a 
totally new concept in coffeehouses. 
Rather than presenting what in effect is a 
mini-concert to dwindling audiences, a new 
idea will be tried. The Coffeehouse will be 
a center of creativity where inovations 
spring from the body of patrons them
selves. Presentation by local talent in any 
of the arts, not only musical, will be en
couraged. This creativity will grow in may 
directions ranging from group painting to 
sense awareness involving a group partici
pation film called Come to your Senses,
Meltzer Continued
in 1962-63, and while completing his Ph.D. 
study, received a Social Science Research 
Council Fellowship and a Fulbright Scho
larship to study in France.
He did his undergraduate work at Duke 
University and earned his M.A. and Ph.D. 
degrees in economics at the University of 
California at Los Angeles.
Professor Joseph, 50, has been at CMU 
since 1948 and has been a faculty member 
at GSIA since its founding in 1949. He has 
been head of the department of adminis
tration and management science since 
1962.
Dr. Joseph is a noted labor economist, 
currently working on problems of man
power management. He has been active in 
labor-management arbitration since 1959 
and has done extensive consulting for 
government, business, and education. In 
1963-64 Professor Joseph served as a senior 
staff economist for the Council of Econ
omic Advisers. He is a member of the Board 
of Trustees of the Joint Council on Econ
omic Education, and a member of the Na
tional Manpower Task Force. In 1968 he 
was a Ford Foundation Faculty Research 
Fellow. Dr. Joseph earned his B.S. de
gree at City College of New York, his M.A. 
at Columbia University, and his Ph.D. at 
the University of Wisconsin.
A committee under the chairmanship of 
Charles Kriebel, professor of industrial ad: ministration, has begun to search for a new 
dean.
THE AB CONCERT COMMITTEE
Will hold its first meeting 
on Wed., Sept. 7, at at 4:30 
in room 33 off Skibo.
Anyone interested in joining, 
and all old members 
please come!
This meeting is important.
about sense relaxation, to possibly con
ditionings in alpha awareness. Concert 
coffeehouses will also be presented once a 
month. The coffeehouse will be every Fri
day except when in conflict with other 
major AB events.
The LectureSpecial Events schedule 
will have some exciting happenings this 
year as well. We start off with the New 
Shakespeare Company, which will present 
the play A Midsummer Nights Dream. 
The play will be held on the Science Hall 
Lawn, September 16 at 5:30, weather per
mitting, and will be free to everyone. In 
case of rain, the play will be held in the. 
Skibo Ballroon at 8:30.
What should prove to be one of the 
biggest events of the Fall will beTwilight 
Zone, and Night Gallery will be on 
campus all day. Serling will take part in a 
discussion group in the afternoon, and will 
give a talk in the evening. His evening talk 
will be in the Skibo Ballroon. Tickets for 
the talk will be available on October 2 and 
will be 50 cents to CMU students.
Both the Lecture Committee and the 
Film Committee have teamed up for this 
event. On Friday evening, we will be show
ing some two to three hours of Twilight 
Zone and Night Gallery episodes. This 
showing will be free.
On Friday, November 17, the Activities 
Board will bring American poet James 
Wright to campus. Mr. Wright, the 1972 
Pulitzer Prize Winner, has become an im
portant figure in modern American Liter
ature, will do a reading of his works.
Once again the Friday afternoon free 
dances will be held in the Skibo Ballroom.
C-MU Artist 
Exhibits on Capri
A Carnegie-Mellon professor, Dr. Charles B. Carter is one of six American artists chosen to participate in an international exhibition of wood cutting and wood engraving to be held in Italy.Dr. Carter, associate professor of painting and sculpture at the University, will exhibit three prints in his series of woodcuts on the subject of the Wounded Knee Indian massacre, which occurred in 1890 at Wounded Knee, South Dakota. The exhibition, titled the Second International Triennial of Contemporary Xylography (i. e. the art of woodcutting and wood engraving), opened July 23 and will run through October at the Castel of the Pio, Museum of Xylography, in Capri, Italy.Dr. Carter completed the series of Wounded Knee woodcuts in 1970. The first public showing of the prints was held the summer of 1970 at the Lutheran National Conference of the American Indian Ministry and Mission in Sioux Falls, S. Dak. The prints have since been exhibited at The Sign of Jonah Gallery, WashingtonD.C.; the Hokkaido Print Association, Sapporo, Japan; Hamilton College, Clinton N.Y.; and the Bird-in-Hand Gallery, Sewickley, Pa.Dr. Carter, who joined the CMU faculty in 1963, received his B.S. degree from the State University of New York at Buffalo, and holds M.A. and Ph. D. degrees from the Pennsylvania State University. He has completed mural commissions in the United States, Sweden and Norway, and has prints in the collections of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, North Carolina State Art Museum, Westmoreland County Museum and others.On display at the Museum of Xylography will be over 600 works representing the worlds most outstanding woodcutters and wood engravers. The exhibition will also include two historical sections featuring Italian and Japanese xylographic masterpieces.
CHRISTMAS 
IN MEXICO
Come to Skibo 
Information Desk 
for Full Details

---------------------------------------------------

the tartan 
wants to bring 
c-mu together
TOGETHER COMES WITH SHARING, IDEAS,
INTEREST, ENTHUSIASM...............................
Page 12- THE TARTAN - Tuesday, September 5, 1972
JOIN THE 
TARTAN STAFF
