The Tartan's
Annual
Freshman
Issue
Freshman
Camp
Pictures 
See Page 6
VOL. 52NO. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., SEPT. 23, 1958
Pledges
Greeks Reap Rewards 
'Of Hectic Rush Week
As of Sunday, 251 men have pledged fraternities. Here 
is the list of names up to that time.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Steve Bell, Ron Flach, John Glasscock, 
Fred Gottemoeller, Joe Grable, Pete Haley, Joel Hersh, Paul
Hess, Bill Houch, Gerry Johnson,?----------------------------------------------
Mac Kabler, Mike King,Mike King, Phil 
Klein, John McCarthy, Dave 
jMoorehead, Walter Page, Colyn 
^lillips, Larry Rheeling, Chuck 
Schatvet, Mike Scott, Jim Shar
key, Tony Spear, Chuck Springer, 
Bruce Vroman, Bob Wallace, A1 
Walmer, Art Lubetz.
Sigma Nu: Don Haury, Howie 
Shopman, Vince Fruend, John 
Zofko, Aubrey Wilson, John 
Richards, Louis Skidmore, Carl 
Michael, Dave Rotthoff, Bob Englehardt, Joe Yorkoske, Georgeichards, Phil Peltz, Bill Wagner, 
:ike Ames, Jack Williamson, Tom 
Kell, Dave Zimmerman, Skip 
Sprenkle, Dave Pearson, Chris 
Parsons, John Nurminen, Russ 
McCally, John Ewing, Kent Mej 
Clean, Norman Goldblatt, Bill 1 
Butters, Roger Ciotti, Bob Kanuck, 1 
and Gene Nopper.
Freshmen Oriented 
And Pledged? Now 
Commence Studies
Early Wednesday morning, Sep
tember 10, Tech freshmen came on 
campus to begin the hectic scram
ble of orientation week. Initiating 
the schedule of events, the deans 
of the respective colleges held a 
tea the same afternoon.
Later in the evening the men in
terested in fraternity rush were in
vited to a fraternity smoker in the 
Fine Arts Building. As a climax 
to the day the freshmen attended 
a street dance held by Cwens and 
Scimatars in front of Engineering 
Hall.
Orientation Tests
Orientation Tests greeted
Scholarships
Seniors and graduate stu
dents who want information 
about Fulbright, Marshall, or 
Rhodes Scholarships for for
eign study or who wish to ap
ply for an award should see 
R. E. Parshall, A. H. 260, as 
soon as possible. There is no 
restriction as to field of study.
The deadline for completed 
Fulbright applications is Octo
ber 20. Marshall and Rhodes 
applications must be com
pleted and mailed not later 
than October 28.
Students interested in ap
plying for one of these schol
arships should discuss the idea 
with their department head 
before they see Mr. Parshall.
Dr. Warner Active 
In Atoms Conference
By BILL MOHNEY
President John C. Warner of Carnegie was one of the 450 
American delegates and observers who represented the Unit
ed States at the United Nations Atoms for Peace conference 
held in Geneva, Switzerland this summer. Dr. Warner, a
----------------------------------------------------?member of the United States
Atomic Energy Commissions genFather Weigel 
Will Speak
By George Whitehead
As announced by the CIT As
sembly Committee the 1958-59 
Tuesday morning assembly series 
will open October 7 with the wellknown religious thinker, author 
and lecturer Father Weigel as 
one1 speaker. Father Weigels articles
sow, Mike Fetbrod, William j program in the Student Union, 
eterson, Leslie Gelles, Jack; Morewood Gardens recreation
Theta Xi: John Kachmar, Hugh | tired division of the class early j have appeared in leading AmeriClark, John VanHorn, A1 May( Thursday. In the afternoon there can journals including TIME, and 
nard, William Slama, John Rau; was the Activities Orientation | he has lectured extensively at uni
versities throughout South Amer
ica, Germany, and the United 
States.
The Tuesday morning assembly 
programs, held at 11:30 in the Lit
tle Theatre in Fine Arts, are part 
of CITs plan to make available to 
all students the opportunity to 
broaden the base of their educa
tion. Thus, the topics of the as
semblies are varied, this year in
cluding themes of scientific, re
ligious, historical, and philosophi
cal nature.
. The Assembly Committee is 
composed of sixteen students, fac
ulty members, and administrators 
and is headed by Dr. Robert 
Schwarz of the History Depart
ment, chairman, and Professor J. 
Fletcher Osterle of the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, 
vice-chairman and secretary. This 
[continued on page 8]
Hiller, Jim Baker, Enn Epner, 
Charles Gallagher, John Weaver, 
William Smyser.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Bud Tay
lor, Jerry Elam, A. Eggenberger, 
[continued on page 7]
Tartan Reporters
 There will be a very im
portant meeting for all Tar
tan staff reporters, sports 
writers, and feature writers, 
old and new, in the Carnegie 
Union, next Wednesday, Octo
ber 1.
i
Sorority Rushing 
egins For Forty 
JJpperclass Coeds
Sorority rushing for upperclass
men officially started last Sunday 
afternoon with the Panhellenic 
Open House at the Union. Repre
sentatives from the seven sorori
ties and forty rushees heard Fran 
Bebic and Ginna Murphy, presi
dent and rush chairman of Pan
hellenic Council respectively, andpting dean of women Mrs. Rayiond E. Parshall discuss the twoweek rushing period now in prog
ress.
Rush dinners this fall are by in
vitation only, a change effected by 
Panhellenic Council last spring. 
Rushees are permitted to attend 
seven rush dinners the first week 
and cannot be with any one soror
ity more than twice.
The second week, October 1-:tober 7, rushees must cut their
rority choices to three, the three 
they will file on their final ballot. 
Again, they are permitted to have 
dinner with any sorority only 
twice. During this second and final 
week the rushees will attend the 
parties of the three sororities of 
their choice.
Rushee bids must be filed Wed
nesday, October 8 by 10 a.m. in 
Lcontinued on page 7]
room was the scene of the Cwens 
Party for all new women while 
the men visited various fraterni
ties on a fraternity tour held by 
C.F.P. Friday, the Presidents re
ception, including a dance and en
tertainment provided by Scotch 
n Soda made a big hit.
Sports Day
Scavenger hunts, frizby, foot
ball, volleyball and something for 
everyone filled Saturdays sports 
day and picnic on the cut. That 
evening fraternity parties lighted 
the campus scene. Sunday was 
picnic day as busses and cars from 
the fraternities left the campus.
The days that followed were de
voted to registration lines, filling 
out schedules, and meetings with 
departmental advisers. The week 
ended with the start of classes.
Frosh Camp 
Huge Success
Monday, September 8, is a day 
that will long be remembered by 
over 300 freshmen. After regis
tering and purchasing their dinks 
at Engineering Hall, they eagely boarded nine buses -that trans
ported them to Camp Lutherlyn, 
the setting for Techs 3rd annual 
Freshmen Camp program.
The purposes of this three day 
outing were to enable the fresh
men to adjust more easily to cam
pus life, and to become acquaint
ed with some of the problems 
which are encountered. Included 
in their busy schedules were dis
cussion groups, sports, dancing, 
and pep rallies.
Professor Everard M. Williams, 
j [continued on page 7]
Frosh-Soph Hop 
To Include Girls 
From Chatham
The annual Frosh-Soph hop will 
be held with Chatham this year.
As in the past the dance is open 
to all freshmen and sophomores, 
and will be held in Thistle Hall,
9-12:00 September 26, 1958.
Due to the usual lack of girls at 
Tech affairs, the Frosh-Soph com
mittee and Student Congress invit
ed Chatham to join us in sponsorj The administration of CIT has 
ing this affair. Tech co-eds should announced the addition of a fullbe sure to attend in order not to time night patrolman to the Morelose to the competition. This should wood Gardens area. In uniform,
eral advisory committee, served 
as a consultant to the American 
delegation during the 13 day con
ference. President Warner said in 
regard to the conference that he 
was certain the current United 
Nations Atoms for Peace Pro
gram would bring about world
wide cooperation in research per
taining to the harnessing of the 
power of the hydrogen bomb.
100 Papers Presented
The conference, which lasted 
from September 1 through Septem
ber 13, was highlighted by the 
presentation of 100 scientific pa
pers on the subject of fusion. The 
United States, Britain, France, 
Russia, Belgium, Denmark, West 
Germany, Italy, Japan, Poland, 
Romania, Switzerland, Turkey, and 
Ukraine were the attending na
tions who contributed papers on 
fusion research.
Other developments in regard to 
the application of atomic energy 
for industrial utilization were dis
cussed at the conference. Through 
the Atoms for Peace Program, the 
United Nations hopes to bring 
about cooperative research among 
the nations of the world to de
velop peaceful applications of 
atomic energy.
School Secures 
Nigh t Patrol man 
For Morewood
Doctor Brown Named 
New Head Of SP& W
By BOB NOWAK
Doctor George K. Brown is the new dean of Student Per
sonnel and Welfare, replacing Dr. Raymond E. Parshall who 
returned to his former position as assistant to the president 
of CIT.
Previously Dr. Brown was an instructor at Warton 
School of Commerce. In 1941 he became assistant professor 
of placement and admissions at^
St. Lawrence College. Then in 
1946 Dr. Brown began a ten-year 
term as Dean of Men and direc
tor of the universitys develop
ment program.
A native New Englander, Dr. 
Brown stated that he accepted his 
office at Carnegie because of his 
interest in the Institute and great 
affection for personnel and ad
ministrative activities."
Born and raised in New Haven 
Connecticut, Dr. Brown gradu
ated from the University of Ala
bama. His masters was completed 
at the Universit yot Virginia and
he was awarded a doctor of phil
osophy degree by the University 
of Pittsburgh.
Always interested in adminis
tration and personnel manage
ment, Dr. Brown served on the 
executive board of the National 
Association of Personnel Admin
istrators, and was one of the deans 
selected to collaborate in the Car
negie Seminar for the training of 
New College Presidents, field in 
1955 at the Harvard School of 
Business.
give everyone a chance to become 
acquainted with our neighboring 
students.
Music
Music will be supplied by the 
Huntsmen, a well known local 
group. They have played at the 
Penn Sheraton, Pittsburgh Ath
letic Club, University of Pitts
burgh, Penn State, Carnegie, and 
most of the country clubs in the 
area.
The combo consists of a piano, 
tenor sax, bass, drums, and trum
pet. The pianists, bass, and trum
peter, are all Tfech graduates. The 
hop will be informal and may be 
either a date or stag affair. Dont
this officer will have the power to 
arrest.
The addition of a policeman has 
been made necessary by many in
cidents around the womens dorm. 
His main purpose is to protect the 
students and the building by keep
ing away people who do not be
long there. As has been pointed 
out, Morewood Gardens has many 
entrances which are not able to 
be sufficiently supervised by the 
maintenance men in the dorm.
In case of any questionable sit
uation the policeman will request 
to see the ID cards or some form 
of identification of those involved. 
Should this information be denied,
miss this, the last orientation afi he is empowered, as stated above, 
fair. to arrest the intruders
i
Greeks and Organizations
Will one officer from each student organization please com
plete the form below and put it in the APhiO box in the school |
post office (box No. 282). This information must be turned in J
no later than noon Thursday, September 25 for prompt pub
lication of the C Book.
IOrganization .............................................................................................. J
President ...................................................................................................
Vice-President ........................................................................................ 
Secretary ......................................................................................J

Treasurer .......................................................................................................... 
I-----------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

Pare 2CARNEGIE TARTANTaesday, September 23. 195
CoJ Of JL U
Lana Kubasek
Freshman Music Major
860 Frosh Swell 
Teclrs Enrollment 
To Over 3300
More than 3300 students as
sembled on the Carnegie campus 
lor the start of classes September
17. Another 1700 began evening 
classes September 18. Every state 
in the union, plus the District of 
Columbia, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, 
the Canal Zone, and 24 foreign 
countries is represented.
Students from Pennsylvania ac
count for about 62% of Carnegies 
total enrollment. New York, Ohio, 
and New Jersey add another 19% 
of the total (New York, 9.3%, 
Ohio 6.4%, and New Jersey, 
3.3%). The 44 other states con
tribute about 15.5% of Carnegies 
student body and the remaining 
3.5% approximately 130 students, 
come from foreign countries.
Freshman Class
The incoming freshmen num
ber about 860, and represent 38 
states, the District of Columbia, 
Hawaii and three foreign coun
tries About 45% of this group 
comes from out-of-state, contin
uing a trend which has seen 
more and more students entering 
Carnegie from outside Pennsyl
vania for each of the last several 
years.
The 860 new students will be 
divided among Carnegies four 
main undergraduate divisions as | 
follows: College of Engineering | 
and Science, approximately 445; 
College of Fine Arts, 225; Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College, 
150; School of Printing Manage
ment, 40.
New Studies
The students will find many 
important changes taking place 
in the various fields of study. 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege. for example, will offer to 
its students for the first time, 
a cornpletc'y new four-year op
tion in the growing field of tech
nical writing and editing. The 
new option is designed to pre
pare students for careers in in
dustry, government, and re
search organizations. The vast 
need at the present time for skill
ed technical writers has prompted 
this action by the college.
The College of Engineering and 
Science has also made important 
changes in most of its departments 
this year. In mechanical engineer
ing, three new courses have been 
added, and in electrical engineer
ing, the program has been revised. 
New courses have also been add
ed in civil and chemical engineer -
ing, and in the physics and chem
istry departments.
In the College of Fine Arts, a 
new opera workshop will be 
opened for all voice students. The 
workshop will be under the di
rection of Mr. Karl Kritz, asso
ciate conductor of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra and musical 
director of the Civic Light Opera.
New Drama 
Head Named
President John C. Warner of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
today announced the resignation 
of Henry Boettcher as Head of the 
Department of Drama, College of 
Fine Arts, and the appointment 
of Theodore Hoffman to succeed 
him. The changes will be effective 
with the opening of the Septem
ber semester.
Mr. Boettcher, who has been 
department head since 1936, will 
continue to serve on the faculty 
as Professor of Drama. He has 
resigned his administrative duties 
in order to devote more time to 
teaching, directing, traveling, and 
writing. He is currently working 
on a book on the history of the 
German theater.
During his 22 years here, Mr. 
Boettcher has directed a wide 
range of plays, including out
standing productions of A Mid
summer Nights Dream in 1948, 
Hamlet in 1952, Henry IV 
(Parts I and II running on alter
nate evenings) in 1953, and Much 
Ado About Nothing in 1955. Un
der his direction Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology has maintained 
its position as one of the nations 
foremost drama schools. It be
came the first American college to 
offer a drama degree when the 
department was opened in 1914.
Mr. Boettcher earned Ph.B. and 
M.A. degrees from the University 
of Chicago in 1926 and 1928, and 
the MF.A. from Yale University 
in 1934. Before coming to Pitts
burgh he taught at Allegheny Col
lege ( Meadville, Pa.) from 1923 to 
1936.
He has been a member of the 
board of the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
since 1954.
Mr. Hoffman
Mr. Hoffman comes to Carnegie 
after a year as Visiting Assistant 
Professor of Dramatic Art at the 
University of California He holds 
A.B. and M.A. degrees, with hon
ors, in English from Columbia 
University, and has had a wide
Tech Gets Atomic 
Research Contract 
Worth $150,000
President J. C. Warner of CIT 
announced the receipt of research 
contracts amounting to approxi
mately $150,000 from the Atomic 
Energy Commission.
The contracts which generally 
are given on an annual basis are 
divided among four projects cur
rently in progress at Carnegie.
The largest of the awards, $84,- 
774, was given for Research in 
the Defect Nature of Solids. This 
project is supervised by Dr. Ro
man Smoluchowski, Professor of 
Physics. The study of standard 
free energy of certain rare earth 
carbides, under the direction of 
Dr. Charles L. McCabe, associate 
professor of metallurgical engin
eering, received of the early stages 
of sintering, $25,802, the funda
mental study headed by Dr. Fred[continued on page 8]
Tech Raises Tuition 
$100 Per Semester
A tuition increase of $200 per year at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology has been announced by President John C. 
Warner.
However, Dr. Warner said, the effective date of the new$*
rate will be deferred until Sep-^---------------------------------------------------
tember 1959.
variety of experience both in the 
United States and abroad.
During 1956-57 he worked in 
England and France as a Kenyon 
Review Fellow in dramatic crit
icism (Rockefeller Grant), doing 
research for a book (tentative 
title, Tragedy, Comedy, and Crit
icism) which is now in prepara
tion.
From 1953 to 1956 he taught 
drama at Bard College, (Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.), where he 
served as chairman of the arts 
division and directed a commu
nity building project for the 
school, converting a coach house 
into a 150 seat theatre with the 
help of student volunteers and a 
grant of $1600.00 from the stu
dent council.
In 1948-50 Mr. Hoffman was 
Director of the Salzburg (Austria) 
Seminar in American Studies. He 
inaugurated and administered the 
seminars full-year program, se
cured as faculty members Ameri
can authorities visiting Europe, 
organized a student selection 
plan, prepared promotion and 
publicity programs in Europe, and 
served as a faculty member in 
American Literature. At Salzburg, 
with Eric Bentley, he conceived 
and organized the International 
Theatre Festival held in June, 
1950. He also lectured for the 
state department on American 
literature and drama at various 
U.S. information centers in Au
stria and Germany.
From 1946-48, Mr. Hoffman 
was employed by Loew's Interna
tional Corporation, the foreign 
branch of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
as script writer, researcher, film 
editor of educational films, and
Mr. Hoffman
New Drama Department Head
promotion man. He also directed 
an off-Broadway play (Cabaret 
Theater, Sartres No Exit, 1954), 
and has directed plays in various 
other theaters.
He has published a number of 
articles dealing with theater top
ics and has translated a number 
of plays which have been widely 
performed in the professional and 
educational theater.
Mr. Hoffmans original play, 
Rich But Happy, was produced 
in Chicago in 1954 by the Play
wright Theater.
The increase will boost tuition 
to $1000 per year in the under
graduate divisions of the College 
of Engineering and Science, Col
lege of Fine Arts, and the School 
! of Printing Management; and to 
$900 in the Margaret Morrison 
! Carnegie College for women.
The Graduate School of Indus; trial Administration and the grad
uate divisions of Carnegies other 
colleges are similarly affected.
Tuition for the current col
lege year will remain unchang
ed, Dr. Warner emphasized. 
Being a parent myself I know 
that family budgets must have a 
chance to adjust, so Carnegie has 
decided to give a years notice of 
its tuition plans. A letter to this 
effect has been sent to each Car
negie student and his parents.
The increase was adopted re
luctantly, he added, and only 
after a careful study of Techs 
present and future resources was 
completed. Corporations, alumni, 
foundations, and other friends 
have supported us generously and 
faithfully. But inevitably there 
comes a time when those who 
benefit most directly from Car
negies education must bear their 
fair share of constantly spiraling 
costs.
The raise is in no way a pacesetting one, Dr. Warner pointed 
out. He noted that other colleges 
and universities have been forced 
to charge tuition equal to or, in 
many cases, higher than the Car
negie rate.
President Warner also noted 
that the additional income from 
the tuition increases will not be 
used entirely for operating costs. 
A substantial portion .of it will be 
ploughed back into scholarship 
funds in order that Carnegie may 
still provide an education for the 
brilliant but needy student.
Tech ROTC Plans 
New Senior Flight 
Training Program
The CIT ROTC department has 
announced the establishment of a 
flight training program for se
lected applicants beginning with** 
the current school year. The newr 
program will mean that upon ery. 
try on active duty the graduates 
who successfully complete thie 
flight training program will take 
their training at the Army Avia" 
tion School immediately after 
completing their branch officers 
basic course.
Successful completion of the 
flight course will also qualify the 
participants to apply for a private^, 
pilots license. In order to qualify 
for the flight training program, 
the students must be in the fourth 
year of ROTC, be eligible for 
graduation during the senior aca
demic year, pass a physical exam
ination and a flight aptitude test, 
agree toserve three years on ac
tive duty upon commissioning, 
and agree to volunteer for army 
aviation flight training and as
signment.
Instruction
The new program will call for 
almost equal amounts of ground 
and flight instruction. The ground 
instruction will be given on the 
Carnegie campus and the flight in
struction, conducted by the Miller 
Aviation Center, at Allegheny 
County Airport.
The program is designed to 
stimulate interest in army avia
tion, and permits early determi-(j^ 
nation of a cadets adjustability 
for flying while still in student 
status. The flight training pro
gram will in no way modify the 
primary purpose of the Army 
ROTC program.
Carnegie Tech Faculty 
Receives Additions
Carnegie Tech announced several faculty promotions and
appointments for this fall. In E&S, Dr. Walter Kohn has been
named Professor of Physics, and Dr. Julius Ashkin and Dr.
Fletcher Osterie were named professors. Raised to the ranks
of associate professors were Karl4 
L. Honmerth, EE and Allen Colter,
Chem.
Dr. Kohn received his PhD
$
from Harvard and has been with 
Carnegie Tech since 1950. He had 
had a leave of absence since Feb
ruary 1957 to teach and do re
search at the Universities of Mich
igan, Pennsylvania, and London. 
Prior to returning to CIT this 
jfall he has been teaching in 
Paris, France.
Dr. Ashkin earned his PhD in 
1943 at Columbia and has also 
been here since 1950. He has 
worked for Los Alamos Scientific 
Lab, and the Manhattan Project, 
and is author of numerous articles 
in technical journals.
Former Tech Student
Dr. Osterle, a former Tech stu
dent, was awarded a Doctor of 
Science degree in 1952. Author of
associate professor were: Miss
Carolyn Kennedy, music; Roger.- 
W. Anliker, Cecil Kitcat, and^ 
Charles Moore. Helen Mae Gossard was named assistant profes
sor of music.
Mrs. Benn has been at Carnegie 
since 1941. She formerly taught at 
the University of Louisville and 
in Akron, Girard, and Portsmouth, 
Ohio.
Mr. Robert Milie was promoted 
to assistant professor of physical 
education.
New Additions
Several additions have been 
made to the Tech faculty for the 
1958-59 academic year. In MMCC 
Anne Kozik and Dorothy Spielman have been appointed assist
ant professors of home economics; 
Audrey Mick and Clare Lawler
numerous technical papers, many t Instructors in home^economics,
discussing the theory of hydrody
namic lubrication, he received in 
1956 the Walter D. Hodson award 
of the American Society of Lubri
cation Engineers.
In the H&SS Department, pro
moted to associate professors were 
Dr. Merton H. Miller, economics; 
Dr. Roy Curry, history; Dr. Hugo 
A. Meier, history; and James 
Steen, english.
Promotions in the College of 
Fine Arts included Mrs. Oleta A.
and Robert Burrell, assistant pro
fessor of bioligical science.
Other new appointees include^ 
Norton G. Seeler, assistant pro
fessor, economics; Kalman J. 
Cohen, assistant professor, eco
nomics, and Gert con der Linde, 
assistant professor of industrial 
administration; Henry S. Leonard 
Jr., assistant professor of math 
and John P. Hirth, assistant pro
fessor of mechanical engineering, 
will be added to the faculty of
Benn to professor. Promoted to Engineering and science,

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 23, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
Saturno.
Carnegie Tech 
Student Dorms
Carnegie Tech opens its doors 
this month to one hundred and 
eighteen more student residents 
than it had room for last Sep
tember.
The schools officials forecast 
even greater housing gains for 
1959-60, with plans underway to 
house 292 more students during 
that year.
A recently-constructed duplex 
fraternity dwelling (Pi Kappa Al
pha, Delta Tau Delta) at 5004-06 
More wood Place will provide 72 
of this years new spaces, and 
renovation of the Mudge Gradu
ate House has made room for 28 
more. Eighteen other spaces have 
been acquired through the con
version of Laurel Hall (5100 
Forbes Avenue) into an under
graduate womens dormitory, aug
menting Morewood Gardens.
The 118 spaces represent an 
eight per cent increase in housing 
capacity, with rooms now for a 
total of 1620 students. Under
graduate women, 456; graduate 
men, 92; and graduate women, 26. 
Carnegie has about 3,400 persons 
registered for daytime classes this 
year.
For future use are a 52-unit 
married students dwelling, sched
uled for completion in January 
1959, and a 90-man graduate 
dormitory (an addition to the 
Mudge graduate hall), to be 
occupied next September. Both 
are already under construction. 
Ground breaking will follow later 
this year for an undergraduate 
dorm housing 150 men.
The expansion constitutes a
Thistle Meeting
All freshmen interested in 
working on the Thistle, Carnegie 
Techs yearbook, are invited to a ; 
meeting on Sunday afternoon, I 
September 28, at 3:00 p.m. at the 
Union. The staff is looking for
ward to seeing all those who sign
ed the Thistle list during the Ac
tivities Fair and any other fresh
men who would like to work with 
us.
A CHE Officers
New officers for 1958-59 for the 
Carnegig Tech chapter of student 
Affiliates of the American Chemi
cal Society are as follows: presi
dent, John A. Olmsted, III, of Pe
taluma, California; vice presi
dent, Michael R. Cocivera, of 
Pittsburgh 33, Pennsylvania; and 
secretary-treasurer, Irene J. 
Dinning, of Pittsburgh 12, Penn
sylvania. The cahpter plans a full, 
schedule of activities for the cur
rent year and invites all persons 
interested in chemistry to attend 
the meetings.
The committee of faculty ad
visors for the Carnegie Tech 
chapter of student affiliates of 
the American Chemical Society 
consists of Professor Robert R. 
Holmes (chairman), Professor Al
lan K. Colter, (vice chairman). 
Dr. Robert J. Kurland, Dr. Mordecai B. Rubin and Mr. Antony FEmerson Club
The Emerson Club, a group of 
college students who meet Sun
day afternoons at the First Uni
tarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues. It is designed 
to appeal to religious liberals of 
all denominations and to those 
who adhere to no particular creed. 
The club offers an opportunity for 
fellowship, discussion, service, and 
social activities.
The program for September 28, 
Whats Wrong With Students, 
features a faculty panel compos
ed of Ted Fenton, CIT; Toby Dunkleberger, Pitt; and Mildred Evanson, Chatham. The panel discus
sion will be held in the Schweitzer 
Room of the church at 3:00 p.m.
Pictures
All seniors and fraternity and 
sorority members who havent 
signed for Thistle pictures on the 
third floor of Carnegie Union maysign in Skibo during this week 
and next week. Girls are asked 
to wear white blouses; men are 
asked to wear suits.
Cost for senior, non-fraternity 
students is $1.50; fraternity and 
sorority members will pay $3.00. 
Those who signed during registra
tion will receive reminder cards 
hpfnrp their annnintmpnts.
Sightseeing Tenrs 
Of Pittsburgh Area 
Planned By Ys
Whether you are new in Pitts
burgh or the typical native who 
has never seen the tourist attrac
tions of your hometown, the YM 
and YWCA sightseeing tour is 
for you. Starting from Morewood 
Gardens at 1:00 p.m. next Satur
day, the three-hour bus trip will 
pass through the Oakland civic 
center, Schenley and Highland 
Parks, and the downtown busi
ness center. Special stops will be
made at Buhl Planetarium, at the 
Block House, and for a ride down 
the incline.
Reservations for tickets, which 
are only $1.75 for Tech students, 
can be made with Pat Middleton, 
5A3 in Morewood, or Carl Car
roll, PiKA.
Scot' Meeting
All freshmen already signed 
up and any others who are in
terestedcome to Scot of
fice. 3rd floor of Union 4:30 to 
5:15 Thursday, September 25 
for tryout assignments.
More Housing
Architects conception of married students apartments
major step in solving the prob
lem of housing the large numbers 
of on-campus applicants who 
overflow annually into nearby 
private residence areas. Carnegies 
women students are not permitted 
^ to seek off-campus housing; they j 
must live in dormitories or with 
their families. Each September a 
number of freshmen men, who 
hold the lowest room priority, have ; 
to obtain rooms in the Oakland, | 
Squirrel Hill, and Shadyside dis
tricts. Their numbers will not be 
decreased this year, in spite of the 
greater housing capacity, because 
more men students than ever are 
requesting campus housing.
^ Several factors account for this 
heavier burden of applications. 
First, Carnegie has a somewhat 
larger enrollment this year of 
freshmen. Second, the school is 
drawing slightly more of its stu
dent body from areas beyond the 
range of commuters.
Continuing Trend 
Third, each year a significantly 
larger percentage of men living 
within commuting distance choose 
^ to lice on-campus; Carnegie en^ courages this trend. It seeks to 
provide its students with a fullx-ounded college life, which in
cludes taking part in one or more 
of the schools 118 extracurricular 
activities. Such participation is 
difficult for commuters, who can
not easily remain at the school 
for late-afternoon and evening 
events.
First Instep Students Return 
Home, Program To Continue
The Indian Steel Training and Educational Program, 
financed by the Ford Foundation was initiated in May, 1957. 
While living in Ohio, Illinois, and Pennsylvania, 185 top grad
uate students from India are learning all that is available
about the production of steel. ?--------------------------------------------------
Up to now, three groups have 
entered the United States. The 
first one consisting of 115 men, has
just completed its twelve months 
education and left for India on 
September 10. The second group 
will not be finished until Decem
ber 13, while the third group just 
arrived here September 15. Of the 
185 students now in the U.S., 
about fifty of them are present at 
Carnegie. The others are going to 
Lehigh University, Youngstown 
University, Case Institute of Tech
nology, or Illinois Institute of 
Technology. Seven steel compan
ies are cooperating in the pro
gram.
Training Program 
The students at Tech attend 
school only on .Thursday, taking 
one hour each of metallurgy, his
tory, economics and labor rela
tions. Monday, Tuesday, Wednes
day and Friday they visit nearby 
steel mills where, for eight hours 
each day, they learn, through ob
servation and instruction, the finer
points of steel production.
When their education is com
plete, the students will return to 
India to step into jobs as super
visors in three new government 
steel mills, which have been built 
through cooperation with West 
Germany, England and Russia. 
India now produces three million 
tons of steel per year, and it is 
expected that this output will be 
doubled as soon as all the plants 
are in operation.
One student, B. Ramachandra, 
has this to say about his stay in 
the U.S. It has been an interest
ing experience and the people in 
the mills, and also in the Institute, 
have been very cooperative. In 
addition to having training in steel 
mills, we had the opportunity to 
stay with families who know the 
way of life in the U.S., and in 
every phase we have had plenty 
of help and understanding. Every
thing has been swell. I am happy 
to have had this rare oppor
tunity.
On CampuswithMaxShuJman
(By the Author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH
Today begins my fifth year of writing this column, and what an 
eventful five years it has been! What things have these old eyes 
not seen! What great discoveries have rocked the worldtlte 
anti-proton, for instance, and the anti-neutron, and high-low 
split, and Brigitte Bardot!
In these five years it has also been discovered that America 
smokers like two kinds of cigarettesfilter and non-filter. Tho 
Philip Morris Company makes both kinds. I mention the 
Philip Morris Company because they pay me to mention the 
Philip Morris Company. They sponsor this column. I write it 
and then they give me money. Then I take the money and pay 
my grocer, my butcher, my gardener, and my four madrigal 
singers. In this way full employment is maintained and wo 
avoid a repetition of the Panic of 1S73 when bread riots killed 
over 98 million people in Muncie, Indiana, and millions of others 
were reduced to ghost-writing Ph. D. theses to keep body and 
soul together.
But enough of gloom. Let us get back to cheerful subjects, 
like the products of the Philip Morris Company. For those of 
you who wish filter cigarettes there is Marlboro, which now, 
more than ever, gives you a lot to likea brand new improved 
filter and a wonderful flavor that comes breezing right through. 
For those of you who wish non-filter cigarettes, there is Philip 
Morris, a mild natural blend, flavorful, fresh, and thoroughly 
agreeable. For those of you who cant decide between filters or 
non-filters but have an affinity for packages, I should like to 
point out that both Marlboro and Philip Morris come in both 
the crushproof Flip-Top Box and the good old-fashioned Soft 
Pack, and you will surely want several of each for your collection.
Speaking for myself, I smoke both Marlboro and Philip 
Morris in both packs. What I do is make kind of a fun thing 
out of it. In my bedroom I have four signs, one on each wall, 
which say in turn: PHILIP MORRISSOFT PACK, 
PHILIP MORRISFLIP-TOP, MARLBORO-SOFT 
PACK and MARLBORO-FLIP-TOP. When I get up in 
the morning I put on a blindfold and then my faithful cat Rover 
spins me around six times and then, with many a laugh and 
cheer, I walk forward with my finger outstretched and the first 
sign I touch is the cigarette I smoke that day!
Jte little tnekh \miaotiatcefimmdAs you can imagine, this little game has been a great source 
of merriment to Rover and me, except for one untoward in
cident one morning. I was stumbling around in my blindfold 
and fell out the window right on top of a man named Fred R. 
1 imken, a census taker, and broke all his lead pencils. He was 
cross as a bear, and though I offered him both Philip Morris 
and Marlboro in both the Flip-Top Box and Soft Pack, he 
refused to be mollified. In fact, he refused to put my name 
down in the census, so when you read population figures of the 
United States, will you please add one?
But I digress. We were speaking of Philip Morris and 
Marlboro who will bring you this column throughout the school 
year. In this space I will take up vital aspects of undergraduate 
life, like high-low split and Brigitte Bardot, and it is my fondest 
hope that the column will be half as much fun for you as it is 
for me. _ w 1938, Mat Shut mu  
The makers of Marlboro and Philip Morris welcome you to 
another year of fun and game* from Old Max, and another 
year of good smoking from us. Filter or non-filter, pick whmt 
you pleaseand what you pick will please you.
4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 23, 1958
Editorial
Personal Development
Is a well-balanced development of all of 
your best potentialities one of your college 
goals? If so, you will probably seek some of 
that development through the campus activi
ties which CIT offers outside the classroom.
These activities may take many forms: per
haps they will be primarily socialsorority 
or fraternity affiliations or campus recreation 
activities; or they may lie in the field of ath
letics. Or you may find that your best talents 
lie in the area of self-government activities.
In addition, at CIT there are a host of clubs 
reflecting special abilities, interests, talents, 
and hobbies, throilgh which you can improve 
your skills and meet others that share your 
interests.
Values
Each of these activities can contribute a 
great deal to your college experience. The 
important thing is not so much that you 
choose the right activities as that you have 
some insight into the question of what values 
you are seeking. When you think about it, all 
campus activities present, in miniature, some 
aspects of an adult life situation.
Probably the most valuable learning experience which 
you can derive from campus activities is the mastery of skills 
the skills of getting along with others. This means more 
than just being liked by othersit means helping others to 
bring out the best in themselves and working together with 
others to get a common job donethe game played, the play 
performed, the exhibit completed, or the by-laws revised.
New Talents
The choices we make from among the campus activities 
which are offered, like our choices of friends, should be made 
consciously, with as much foreknowledge as possible of what 
the activities may offer us, what we may have to contribute 
to them, and why we are making th specific choices we decide 
on. In terms of our personal development this aspect of our 
college life can be almost as important as our classroom ex
periences. Through such activities we may discover talents 
and skills we were not aware of, and we may have the op
portunity to develop them to a point where they can serve us 
for the rest of our life. We can become sensitive to the needs 
of others, and master techniques whereby we can help others 
meet their needs. Such activities can strengthen us socially, 
help to season us as citizens, and provide us with gratifying 
esthetic and emotional outlets. At times we will experience 
the bitterness of failure. But the learning that can accrue 
from a seeming failure may prove as valuable as the triumph 
of success. If campus activities are to help us advance through 
the goals we have set for ourselvesif, in other words, they 
are to be instruments for self-directionthey should not be 
chosen in an offhand fashion, but should be weighed care
fully and responsibly.
[continued on page 7]
After Rush Week: 
A Routine Of Classes
By Ray Smith
Now that the frenetic scrambling of rush 
week is past we can settle down to the every
day routine of college life. Although the 
number of cases of rushing face (facial 
muscles frozen into a permanent smile) w fs 
slightly higher than last year. The majority 
of these cases can be corrected through mas
sage and physical therapy; however, one en
thusiastic assistant rush chairman will be 
sent to the Mayo Clinic for. plastic surgery.
The first few days or school after rushweek see the newest additions on our campus 
multiplying 2x2 and getting 4.007 on shiny 
new slide rules and struggling about 
semi-darkness while painfully breaking in 
new sunglasses.
While the freshmen are wandering about 
presenting a ghatsly Esquire advised SemiIvy League appearance the kahki robed up
perclassmen stand by (usually in a book 
store queue) with knowing smiles, mentally 
preparing themselves for another year of 
of Eber, Cecil and strength tests. Not havir^ 
an upperclassmens experience, a freshman floats from class 
to class expecting an Aristotle in a grey-flannel suit whose 
complete knowledge of the subject will be passed on to them 
with one touch of his magic blue book. Instead they find a 
rather tired though distinguished looking gentleman who, 
without a trace of enthusiasm, runs through his oft-repeated 
objectives of the course, assigns three chapters for Monday, 
calls the role for the first and last time and walks out. How
ever the Freshies take this in strike and slowly ooze into th 
Carnegie mold and once again the campus settles down 
the sometimes serious business of learning.
New Policies 
For Congress
By Paul Hess
Bob Cleveland loathes apathy.
He abhors it because, as chairman 
of your Student Congress, part of 
his job is to create interest in the 
many and varied activities offer
ed by Carnegie Tech.
Congress, Bob explained, is 
the co-ordinating and in many 
ways the controlling organization 
for Techs activities. He added 
that Congress has not done any 
backsliding since its inception two 
years ago, but that much more in
terest is needed in order for the
organization to completely fulfill T> J * ^ -m
its responsibility as a governing tvCldlO L SCil
New Policies Editorthe Tartan: "
As means of engendering pride This letter is to acquaint freshmen with Carnegie Techs
the groupS has fnstltited Tevers5 ! Wn radi station> WRCT. During the freshman week pronew policies as part of its expangram the station conducted tours every day and was broadsion plans. What will probably casting music from seven in the morning to midnight. Usually,prove to be the most productive 
plan will be the invitation to 
freshmen to participate in Con
gress as committee apprentices. 
Committee work will thoroughly 
acquaint freshmen with the opera
tions and functions of Congress 
and will offer them a better 
chance of being elected repre
sentatives in the spring.
A second project will be the 
development of a public relations 
committee which will improve 
communications between Congress 
and the student body. These 
goals sound pretty general, said 
Bob, but they will be specific in 
results. He added that at the 
first committee head meeting, 
more definite plans will be form
ulated.
Before that meeting I cant say 
too much, Bob explained. Im 
trying to set up goals myself and 
meet with the executive council 
to get their approval, he added.
Congress has a firm foundation 
now, and its next step is to build 
outward in order to provide op
portunities for every student on 
campus, according to Bob. He 
pointed out that Congress has a 
pretty good system of elections, 
whereby representatives and offi
cers are elected by both the out
going and incoming bodies. You 
get old experience and new life 
that way, he stated.
Three Branches
Congress is designed upon the 
three branch principle of govern
ment consisting of legislative, ex
ecutive, and judiciary branches. 
The legislative branch is headed 
by the chairman of Student Con
gress, Bob, who is assisted by a 
vice-chairman, Cissie Bonini, and 
secretary, Terrie Rudy. Member-; 
ship is drawn from campus living, 
social, and academic groups.
The executive branch is called 
the Executive Council and is com[continued on page 7]
in the evening it was being orig-^ 
inated live from our studios in 
the Carnegie Union basement, but 
at slack times during the morning 
and early afternoon WKJF-FM 
was rebroadcast. (WKJF-FM is 
Pittsburghs only exclusive FM 
station; they play a strictly instru
mental schedule with five minutes 
of news on the hour.)
Music for Study 
Since classes have started, Ra
dio Carnegie Tech has instituted a 
regular program of music for 
study, interrupted occasionally
with a time-weather break. Since 
WRCT is a non-profit, schoolsponsored type of organization, 
you neednt listen to excess coi* 
mercials as you do listening to 
other stations. Another advantage 
is our limited audience: we will be 
glad to fit the record to your mood 
if you call MU 2-4503 and tell us 
about it.
Our schedule until October 6 
will be: FM 7:00 a.m.; News, Vari[continued on page 7]
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13. Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-3877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manage, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination period by the students o Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Co-Editor ............................................................................................................................ Carol Sooby
Co-Editor ....................................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
Associate Editor .................................. ...................................................................... David Dull
Business Manager ........................................................................................................ Michael Bass
News Editor ............................................................................................................................ Tom Bifl
Sports Editor .................................................................................................................. George Taris
Copy Editor ......................................................................................................................**rry Sullivan
Assistant News EditorJanyce Notopoulos, Features EditorLex Baker, ihotosraph EditorA1 Gickler, Assistant Business ManagerLee Adelsburg. Advertiseing Manager  Mike Balsam, Secretary  Rena Siegel, Assistant Sports Editor 
Ed Blum.
Mike Clayton. Peggy Ford, Mary Ann Gaertner, MarMarianne Hadel, Dick Hartman, Natalie Laird, Eeth
News StaffRon Abrams, 
lene Garland, Val Goodrich,
Liden, Art Marino. Lou Pondy, .Cissie Rafferty, Terry Rudy, Margie Spock.
Sports Staff^Torn Bieg. George Gross. Jim Mullin, Billiard Wood, Stan Zionts, 
Mike Berman, Pete Pence, Dick Hamilton, Bruce Bowen.
Copy StaffFrank Baloh.
Art Staff -Roy Brodsky Don Beaman. Ned Ardalan.
1hotograph StaffJohn Phiibrick.
Secretarial Staff-Marsha L6we, Pat Downer, Betsy Moss 
Circulation StaffGary Brandenberger, Jim Phillips.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Winston puts its
FILTER-BLEND
Tuesday, September 23, 1958CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Tartans Shut-Out
Slippery Rock, 15-0
Techs gridiron team opened 
their 1958-59 season with a very 
impressive 15 to 0 rout over an 
^cperienced Slippery Rock eleven. 
"Wie Bakermen were in complete 
control of the contest from the 
opening whistle and dominated 
play throughout the game. ,
Junior halfback Johnny Zinni 
took the opening kickoff straight 
up midfield to the 33 yard line. He 
then did the. bulk of the ball 
carrying as John Muth directed 
the team on a 67 yard touchdown 
march.
Wsiineteen plays put the ball over 
with most of the yardage coming 
on plays up the middle and off 
right tackle. Zinni plunged 2 yards 
for the score and then added the 
extra two points on a dive off 
tackle. Tech originally failed to 
make the extra two points but the 
Teachers were off sides and 
couldnt hold the Tartans the sec
ond time.
Coach Baker substituted freely 
the first half and the second 
ream outplayed Slippery Rock. 
Tech was denied a score late in 
the second quarter when fresh
man Burrell caught a Muth pass 
on the 2 yard line and stepped 
over the goal. The 27 yard play 
was called back for backfield in 
motion and the Teachers held the 
Tartan attack to prevent a further 
score.
Slippery Rock came up with 
^eir biggest threat in the early 
minutes of the second half when 
Petrarca almost got away with the 
kickoff. He was nailed on the Tar
tan 47 yd. line by the last Tech 
man between him and paydirt. A 
few plays later Hammer recover
ed a Slippery Rock fumble and 
Tech proceeded to march 51 yards 
for their second touchdown.
Halfback Pete Wilson set up the 
Tech score with a 31 yard run to 
f0e Slippery Rock 19. Zinni car
ried to the one yard stripe on three 
carries and Muth sneaked the ball
over for the clinching score. Walt 
Majeski booted the extra point to 
end the nights scoring at Tech 15 
Slippery Rock 0.
The teachers almost scored late 
in the fourth quarter as freshman 
Ed Smith ran a punt back 54 yards 
to the Tartan 33 yard stripe, how
ever the Techites held on downs 
and then controlled the ball un
til the final whistle.
The Tartans looked good in their 
first outing. Blocking was sharp 
and the backs ran hard through 
holes in the Slippery Rock line big 
enough to drive a truck through. 
Facts and Figures 
The statistics clearly showed 
how much Tech dominated play. 
Tech also won the yards penalized 
column. The crowd at Saturdays 
game was the largest Tech has 
played before since pre-war years.
Zinni looks like one of the best 
Tartan halfbacks in years, run
ning hard and showing good speed. 
Jim Temmel played a good game 
on defense; the 150 lb. Tartan cen
ter being all heart. Muth looked 
like a seasoned quarterback di
recting the Tech attack, throw
ing a sharp pass.
Techs next game snould deter
mine how tough the team is. 
Bucknell is strong and experi
enced but the Tartans have depth 
and spirit and were looking for a 
close hard-fought game. This game 
will be played October 4 with the 
Tartans having an open date next 
week.
Statistics
TECH SLIPPERY ROCK
14.................... First Downs ............. 9
11 ................... By Rushing .................... 5
3 . ........ . By Passing ............... 2
0.. .T By Penalties ........2
191......... Yards Gained Rushing .........74
18........... Yards Lost Rushing ...... 94 |
173............... Net Gain Rushing ....... 25 |
12........ Forward Passes ............... 17 j
6....... Passes Completed ............. 7
1.tJ P......... Interceptions.................... 2 j
48...... Net Gained Passing ...... 60
221.............. Net Yards Gained ............................ 85
3................... Punts ................. 3
42........... Average Yds. Punts ...........31
1......................... Fumbles ................. 3
1.........Ball Lost Fumbles ....... 2
10...................... Penalties ..................... 5
80............... Yards Penalized ............... 21
IN 1930, AT THE ^?0SE BOWL EDDIE WAS A PITT QUARTERBACK U-NDEh THEIATE DR. SUTHERLAND
HE WAS BILL KER^S ASSISTANT FORTHE
V338 CIT 
SUGAR VOWLTEAM..,
NOk/A PRACTICING DfNIST WZ BECAME MEAD COACH IN
...im...
Varsity Teams
All freshmen and upper
classmen who are interested 
in trying: out as players or 
managers for the following 
teams are requested to re
port to the athletic office, 102 
gymnasium:
Football, Cross Country, 
Basketball, Swimming, Rifle, 
Golf, Tennis, and Track.
Tartan Thinclacls 
Showing Promise 
In Early Practice
Carnegie Techs cross-country 
squad began team drills last week 
on their tough Schenley Park 
course. Backed by experience and 
some hard individual pre-season 
work the team has looked good 
thus far. The general condition of 
the thinclads at this point is much 
better than that of last years in
jury ridden group.
Among the contenders for in
dividual honors, five seniors stand 
out. Co-captains, Eric Ottervik 
and Dick Hamilton, the districts 
top two-milers, will lead the team. 
Both these men have already been 
honored as outstanding athletes, 
Ottervik having been voted Techs 
most valuable trackman last 
spring and Hamilton receiving the 
most valuable honors as a member 
of the 1957 cross country squad. 
As seniors this year these men 
[continued on page 8]
Football Schedule
Home football games will be 
played as follows:
Sept. 20Slippery Rock at 
Leechburg.8:30 p.m.
Oct. 11Thiel at Pitt Sta
dium .........1:30 p.m.
Oct. 25W. & J. at Lebanon 
High School sta
dium .........1:30 p.m.
Nov. 1Geneva at Pitt Sta
dium .............2:00 p.m.
Admission to games free, upon 
presentation of registration card. 
Do not allow your card to be used 
by any person but yourself, as it 
may be lifted at the gate. The vis
iting teams are our guests; please 
treat them accordingly at all times, j
At Pitt Stadium, use Gate 1 for 
admission. Tech students and per
sonnel will sit in sections 1, 2, and j
3. Visitors will be seated in sec
tions 34, 35, and 36. All seats are 
general admission. It will not be 
permissible to rope off sections for 
special groups, except the bands.
IM Sports 
To Begin Soon
The intramural sports program 
under the direction of new IM 
sports head Mr. Boyer is getting 
underway with the several fall 
sports starting the 1958-59 school 
year.
Football will be the big autumn 
sport, and if this season follows 
the trend set up in previous years, 
more teams and more students will 
be taking part in the rough and 
tumble festivities.
Football Rosters
Rosters for this years football 
team are due in the IM sports 
office by 4:30 p.m. today. Each 
team may carry twelve men on 
its roster, and the rosters are sub
ject to change up to the second 
game of the season.
The other fall sport may be par
ticipated in by the fairer sex as 
teams will soon vie for the co-rec 
volleyball crown. This sport is be
coming morepopular seasonally 
and an unprecedented large group 
of teams is anticipated to compete 
this year.
Field Hockey
Girls! Interested in playing 
field hockey? The Womens 
Athletic Association will start 
practice for field hockey on 
Thursday, September 25, at 
4:30 p.m. Meet in the gym of
fice. No experience is needed.
A PURE WHITE MODERN FILTER
/S ONLY THE BEGINNING OF A WINSTON
R.J. REYNOLDS 
TOBACCO CO. 
WINSTON-SAL&M'H.*
WINSTON TASTESGOOD UKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD 
Its what's up front that counts
up front...fine, flavorful 
tobaccos, specially processed 
for filter smoking

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 83, 1958
Daylight Savings Time
Above several Campers check for accuracy the 
ramp sundial. This sundial is one of the few in the 
world with a luminous dial.
A Bargain
At the right, Myron Salamon carefully fits a 
brand-new frosh with a brand-new dink. The Sci
mitars were in charge of the dinks.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 23, 1S58CARNEGIE TARTANPa* 7
f 1 reeks
[continued from page 1] 
Olin Maurey, Dave Vereeke, Joe 
Lombardi, Jim Miller, Paul Garirn, Bill Russell, Bob Miller, Jere 
Lober, Joe Lang, Bob Walker, 
Mark Moran, Phil Rie, Henry 
Lietz, Dave Elwell, Tony Smith, 
Ed ^orell, Walt Dobbins, Jerry 
Bashein, Mike Peshut.
Beta Sigma Rho: Leon Anders, 
Michael Fox, Mel Bachner, Robert 
Levison, Harvey Stein, Burton 
Cohn, Steven Putman, Richard 
Pressman, Barry Glunts, Dick 
Feldman, Steve Kalish, Ira Sha
piro, Joseph Fidler, Phillip Aaron, 
David Klein, Andy Merson, Leo 
Cohen, Allen Weinfarten, Arthur 
Ya, Leon Nigrosh, Richard 
Kessler, Barry Hershaft, Jeff Rob
bins, Jay Alpern. 
f Alpha Tau Omega: Bill Elies, 
Dave Devos, Stew Graham, Dave 
Armstrong, Jim Val, D o 1 p h 
t Marche, Ben Watkins, John Weyer, John Morris, Bruce Frederick, 
Tony Winch, Ron Pellman, John 
Clark, Howard Stevens, Bill Timberlake.
Beta Theta Pi: Lowrie Andersoi^Brooks Brenners, Lou Cicotello, Bob Bent, John Kayne, Fred 
Klingener, Terrance Mudrock, Ro
bert Quain, George Logan, Toni 
Vandersalm, Bob Lindsey, Len 
Freeman, Roger Zitko, William 
Sypher, Rich Tomaseski, Ken 
Erickson, Jack Allen, Bill Ander
son.
Tau Delta Phi: Marshall
Abrahms, Larry Aiken, Sam BernharL Dave Billow, Mike Brandimflf Steven Cohen, James Dann, 
Marty Feigenson, Ron Frieland, 
Ted Goldberg, Ray Goldstein, Walt 
Gustafson, Dick Hirsh, Burt Israel, 
Les Jacobs, Arty Kahn, Carl Katz, 
Dave Kaye, Jim Leland, A1 Norwitz, Stew Taley, Joe Ritt, Ira 
Rubin, Bob Schachner, Dick Seullary, Mary Seltzer, Stew Silverstone, Bruce Tempkin, Bill 
Thompson, Howie Tureff, Richie 
Kaplan, Dick Brooks, Joe Yevich, 
ChjPk Rosenberg.
Delta Upsilon: Warren Askew,
Steve Bucchier, George Godecke, 
Dave Conroe, Mike Thurston, Ken 
Sutherland, Dave Ewing, Joe 
Biase, Bob Reicher, Bill Reinfeld, 
Bob Gregor, Murray Madtch.
Kappa Sigma: Richard Feidt, 
Jame Boerlin, Bill Freivogel, 
James Duffy, Russel Eckblom, 
Roger Swigart, John Kriwacic, 
lotor
Kenneth Hawker.
Phi Kappa: Tom Whalen, Den
nis McSweney, Paul Sullivan, Mat 
Morehouse, Carl Maciolec, Richard 
Flaherty, John Moser, John Bilatta, Elwood Witt, Dale Terinetti, 
Carl Eppig, Don Luff, Bob Zim
mer, Jim Kline, Joe Delsole, Jack 
Murphy, Mike Niccolai, Harold 
Ericson, Steve Agostinella, Frank 
Le^e, Pete Bruno, Bill Bolger.
*lta Tau Delta: Gary Cecchett, James Craig, Tom Erick
son, Phillip Hodge, Bob Kelly, 
Kenneth Kirchner, Ron Kracht, 
Paul Lang, Tom McDermitt, Jim
I. ^Miller, Robert Nielson, Richard 
!Pener, Chris Root, Edward Rose, 
David Scott, Charles Ruby, Ron 
|f>antina, Ed Weber.
Rolrert Colavolte, Jack Stafford, 
ChWles Mueller, Martin Poad,
1URCT
[continued from page 4] 
eties. Unlimited begins at 8:00 p.m. 
and ends at 12 midnight. FM con
tinues until 2:00 a.m.
Tentative Schedule Effective 
After October 6 
5:00- 6:30Something Special 
6:45- 7:00News 
7:00- 9:00Music of the Masters 
9:00-10:00Jazz 
10jA|-l0:45Individual 
10:^-11:00News 
11:00- 1:00Night Train 
-After October 6 the program
ming will be fixed to certain hours. 
The music director invites your 
requests as to particular albums or 
classical pieces. Send them to Box 
370 in care of WRCT Music Di
rector.
Blake Berning 
WRCT
Cuktii'at
C^aienchenclcir
By Natalie Laird
This year the Cultural Calendar 
will serve as a supplement to the 
tri-monthly Mortar Board Cultur
al Calendar, bringing to you the 
times, places, and p^pgrams for 
important cultural events on 
campus and in the rest of Pitts
burgh. We want to encourage you 
to take advantage of the many op
portunities which the College of 
Fine Arts offers you through its 
departments of drama, music, 
architecture, and painting, design 
and sculpture. The Playhouse, The 
Nixon, Carnegie Music Hall, and 
Syria Mosque are other valuable 
sources of worthwhile entertain
ment.
The summer exhibit of student 
work from the department of 
painting, design and sculpture will 
continue through the month of 
September in both the Exhibition 
Hall and the Hewlitt Gallery on 
the first floor of the Fine Arts 
Building.
Pittsburgh Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra management announced 
this week that special prices for 
area college students will be in 
effect during the thirty-second an
nual concert season which begins 
at Syria Mosque in Pittsburgh, 
Friday, October 17. Area college 
students can purchase twenty Sun
day afternoon tickets to concerts 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra for only $7.00 for the en
tire series. Twenty Friday evening 
concerts will be available for only 
$9.00 the twenty concert series.
The twenty pairs of concerts to 
be played this season by the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra will 
contain sixty-seven separate com
positions representing forty com
posers. Four world premier per
formances will be offered through
out the season and a massive Beet
hoven Cycle, containing five sym
phonies, four concerts, two over
tures and a concert version of Fidelio also will be included in the 
subscription series.
Guest Performers
This seasons Pittsburgh Sym
phony artist list will include pian
ists Artur Rubinstein, Robert Casadesus, Rudolf Serkin, Anton Knerti, 
Theodore Lettvin and the pianoduo team of Luboschutz and Nemenoff. Violinists to appear include 
Nathan Milstein, Eudice Shapiro, 
Szymon Goldberg, Zino Francescatti, Joseph Fuchs and Samuel 
j Thaviu, concertmaster of the Pittsj burgh Symphony.
Theo Salzman, principal cellist 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony will 
j also appear as a soloist along with 
seven other members of the or
chestra during the season. Metro
politan Opera star Roberta Peters 
rounds out the guest list for the 
concert season.
First Appearances
Four guest conductors will be 
making their first appearance with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony this sea
son Syria Mosque audiences will 
see Pierre Monteux, eighty-three 
year old former mentor of the San 
Francisco Symphony; Eugene Ormandy, conductor of the Philadel
phia Orchestra; Alfred Wallen
stein, former conductor of the Los 
Angeles Philharmonic; and Paul 
Hindemith, internationally famous 
composer, conductor, and musician. 
Karl Kritz, Associate Conductor in 
Pittsburgh will also conduct two 
| concerts with the remaining thirty 
i under the baton of music director 
| William Steinberg.
Opera
The Pittsburgh Opera will open 
its 1958-59 season on October 23 
and 25 at Syria Mosque. Elaine 
Malbin, guest artist on The Tele
phone Hour and Voice of Fire
stone, will be featured in Mad
ame Butterfly. Other operas are 
Susannah on December 4 and 6; 
Tosca, January 29 and 31; Cosi 
Fan Tutti, March 19 and 21; and 
Lucia Di Lammermoor April 9 
and 11.
Season subscription tickets to all 
five operas regularly priced at 
$11.70 are available to college stu
dents for $7.50. Discounts are also 
offered on higher and lower priced 
seat locations. Opera subscription 
tickets are available here at Car
negie Institute of Technology, 
Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Richard Karp will conduct the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
for the operas, which will be pre
sented at 8:15 p.m. Thursday and 
Saturday evenings at Syria 
Mosque.
Camp
Explorers Club 
Meets Tonight
All persons interested in the Ex
plorers Clup will meet this eve
ning, September 23, at 7:30 p.m. in 
Porter Hall 100. The field trip 
schedule includes:
Sunday, Sept. 28High Rocks 
(near Derry)
Sunday, Oct. 5  Dulanys 
Cave (near Uniontown)
These field trips are planned for 
beginners. Equipment needed in
cludes gym shoes, old towel, old 
gloves, warm clothes, and lunch. 
Those going will meet in Skibo at 
9:00 a.m. on Sunday.
For more information call:
Dick SchrothMU 2-9430 
Hugh Young  Day  MA 1- 
2600 ext. 524  Night EM 1- 
6814.
Congress[continued from page 4] 
posed of representatives from 
various clubs and organizations on 
campus. The judiciary branch is 
termed the Supreme Court, con
sisting of seven members, Dave 
Dull, Tom Bieg, Bob Anselmi, 
Ginger Dancull, Fred Heider, 
Mary Jo Hill, and Ann Forrester.
More information about Stu
dent Congress may be found in 
the Students Handbook and 
Your Student Congress, a book
let issued during orientation week. 
Within the title of that booklet 
lies the key to the success of 
Congress. It is your Congress, stu
dents, and needs only interest in 
exchange for apathy to serve its 
purpose.
[continued from page 1 ]
: head of the department of elec| trical engineering, delivered an 
j address entitled The Importance 
of Being Earnest. He stressed 
! that an individual must be him| self and get along on his own 
merits. He said that since you 
are being exposed to education;
: its your job to digest it. 
j Student panels, composed of 
! counselors, discussed Education 
in the Claosroom, and Members 
included in the informal discus| of a Campus Community. Topics 
| sions were Campus Attire For 
| Men and Women, The Influence 
of Fraternities and Sororities, 
and Commuters and Campus 
Life highlighted the evenings, and 
dancing, ballroom and square, 
athletics, including swimming and 
volleyball tournaments, occupied 
free moments during the day.
Schmertz Stars 
Thursday evening, Professor 
Robert W. Schmertz, demonstrated 
his showmanship by singing both 
! folk and original songs. Authentic 
| Scotch dances were then perform1 ed with a bagpipe accompaniment. 
Although the campfire and moon
light swim were cancelled because 
| of inclement weather, campers 
! spent their time profitably by 
having cabin discussions.
In order to arouse school spirit 
among the frosh, school songs 
, were sang everyday and a pep 
rally was held Wednesday mornjing.
\ Wednesday afternoon found the 
frosh back at the campus ready to 
begin orientation week with a 
newly found confidence.
EditorialPanhel
[continued from page 1] 
the office of the Dean of Women 
in AH and picked up at 4:30 that 
afternoon at the Union. The rushees then must submit acceptances 
or regrets by 6:30, at which time 
as new pledges they will meet 
with their sororities. Silence per
iod, during which sorority mem
bers are forbidden to talk with 
rushees, begins Tuesday, October 
7 at 10 p.m. and ends Wednesday, 
October 8 at 6:30 p.m.
The rushees were warned 
against excessive interest on the 
part of sorority groups which 
could constitute illegal rushing 
and were requested to bring any 
such action to the attention of 
Panhellenic Council. They were 
also advised that Mrs. Parshall 
and the members of Panhellenic 
Council will be available at any 
time during the rush period to an
swer questions about rushing.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
[continued from page 4]
Why not start toy identifying 
for yourself what youi motives 
are in making your choice of cam
pus activities? Perhaps they in
clude some of the following: de
sire for recreation; desire to make 
friends; desire for popularity and 
prominence; further development 
of known interests and abilities; 
exploration and development of 
new interests and abilities; voca
tional exploration and experience; 
opportunity for self-expression; 
development of leadership; or loy
alty to a group.
Since human beings are com
plex, the chances are that you 
have cheeked off more than one 
motive as being applicable to you. 
And here is where you have to 
start making choices. In terms of 
your long-range goals for your
self, assign priority to the mo
tives that are most directly re
lated to those goals.
Next find out everything you 
can about all the student activi
ties and decide which organiza
tions or projects will best meet 
your needs in terms of what you 
now know about your motives. 
Ask yourself two questions: (1) 
do you qualify for the activities 
you have chosen? (2) How many 
activities do you have time for 
this semester? Now on the basis 
of this examination, you should 
be in a position ,to make mean
ingful decisions about your pro
gram of campus activities.
Campus activities give us first
hand experience in the sort of 
competitive situations which we 
will encounter for the rest of our 
life, and prepare us for the real
ity that not everybody can be a 
big wheel in every situation.
Learning to choose our leaders 
and to accept and support leader
ship should be a part of our train
ing for citizenship in a democracy.
Film Arts Society 
Begins 1958-59 
Series ThursdavAMr. Hulots Holiday, one of 
the most talked-about motion pic
tures in screen history, wilt kick 
off the 1958-59 film series spon
sored by the Film Arts Socvsty of 
Carnegie.
The series, which will opf-i this 
Thursday, September 25, art1*; con
tinue every Thursday, wi h the 
exception of the Christmi-* and 
j Thanksgiving vacation, through 
| January 15, will present ? pro
gram of representative, cl^ iicsal,
I experimental, and inforf ;ative 
I films.
Admission
The films will be shown at 4:40 
and again at 7:45 each Thursday 
in room 100, Porter Hall, cM the 
Carnegie campus. Admission to 
the fourteen film series is by 
membership only. Memb rship 
can be obtained by sending c selfaddressed stamped enveloi e to 
Film Arts Society, P.O. Bov 406, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
or by purchasing a membe rship 
card at the door on Septeml*?r 25. 
The membership fee is $2. >5 for 
the entire fourteen showinis.
Fall Schedule 
The schedule for the Fa)! sea
son is as follows:
September 25Mr. Hulotl Hol
iday
October 2Intolerance 
October 9Desire 
October 16A private showing 
of an American film th^t has 
been withdrawn from this 
country by its owner.
October 23Manon 
October 30Stage Coach 
November 6The Phantom of 
the Opera 
November 13Sunrise 
November 20Beau Geste 
December 4Camille 
December 11The Seven Dead
ly Sins
December 18Million Dollar 
Legs
January 8One Summer of 
Happiness 
January 15Crime and Punish
ment
WHAT?
. . . Youre attending a top technical college 
and you don't have precision instruments? 
I Won't Tell  Buy In 
Confidence and Save
MYRON SALAMON
IA 1-7933
AGENT FOR:
K&E, Post Dietzgen, Lotter Instruments
Scotch n Soda 
Meeting Today
Scotch n Soda will start off its 
year of production with a meeting 
in the Carnegie Union at 4:30 
p.m., on Tuesday, September 23. 
Persons interested in the technical 
aspects of musical comedy, in
cluding costumes, lights, props, 
construction.
The cast, music, and writers 
meetings will be held at 4:30 p.m. 
Tuesday, September 30, at Car
negie Union.
One of the things we all find 
out through a campus activity is 
not so much a matter of the type 
of person we are as to what we do 
in specific situations.
The chances are that most of us 
will find that in our campus ac
tivities there are times when we 
are leaders and other times when 
we are followers. When we are 
leaders, we will be expected to 
be hard-working, to carry our re
sponsibilities, to be able to make 
up our mind, to give direction to 
| our project, to have faith in what 
we are doing, to inspire others to 
work hard and like it, to have 
confidence in ourselves, and to 
radiate that confidence to others. 
And when we are followers, we 
will be expected to carry our 
share of the load, and to get along 
harmoniously with others, to ac
cept authority and direction, to 
be active rather than passive in 
our relationships with the group, 
to go along with the will of the 
majority, and yet to make our 
point of view known even if we 
happen to be in the minority.
Now after careful considera
tion of your abilities and interests, 
the activities which appeal to you, 
and the amount of time you will 
have to devote to such endeavors, 
select activities and become a 
faithful member and diligent 
worker, for it is only through 
hard work that the full benefit of 
college life can be gained.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, September 25, 195*
Miss Lloyd Named 
Secretarial Studies 
New Assistast Dean
Carnegie Tech today announced 
the appointment of Miss Betty 
Jane Lloyd as Assistant to the 
Dean of Margaret Morrison Car
negie College.
Miss Lloyd has been a faculty 
member at the school since 1948 
and was appointed assistant pro
fessor of secretarial studies in 
1952. She will continue to teach in 
conjunction with her administra
tive duties.
Prior to joining Carnegie, Miss 
Lloyd was a teacher of business 
education at the Munhall junior 
and senior high schools. She holds 
a B.S. degree in secretarial studies 
from Carnegie Tech and a M.Ed. 
degree from the University of 
Pittsburgh. She lives at 4020 Davis 
Avenue, Homestead Park, Pa.
T rack
WRCT Meeting
September 23Meeting for 
ALL interested in WRCT. PH 
100 at 4:30 p.m. Training ap
pointments will be given.
[continued from page 5] 
promise to be better than ever.
Senior Members
Close behind these men will be 
Woody Fritz, a Wilkinsburg sen
ior, trying for his third straight 
letter in the fall sport. Senior Bill 
Wittman, one of the districts top 
two milers, will also be back on 
the cross-country scene after a 
two season layoff due to injuries. 
Finn Blomquist, a Norweigian ex
change student, will be taking his 
first crack at American distance 
running as the fifth senior mem
ber of the squad.
Fighting hard to displace these 
seniors will be junior lettermen 
Bill Anderson and Pat Chamay. 
These boys were much improved 
during the spring track season and 
already this fall have posted 
course times comparable with 
their last years best.
Also running well despite his 
lack of experience is Bruce Do
bras, an ex-football player who 
will be competing in the hill and 
dale sport for the first time. 
Rounding out the squad and work
ing hard for additional places on 
the team will be sophomores Glen 
Klepak and Paul Heilman, along 
with freshmen Dave Degenhardt 
and Jack Hiller.
Coach Bob Carman reports he is 
encouraged with the team so far.
Techs Housing Again 
Proves Not Adequate
Theoretically 865 freshman donned gray and plaid dinks 
this September, as opposed to about 800 last year. This in
crease in enrollment is one reason for the crowded housing 
conditions. Also, more students living within the commuting 
radius wish to live on campus. Another contributing factor 
is the larger group of freshman coming from outside Alle
ghany county. ? -------------------------------------------------
It is the schools policy to have 
all undergraduate women live on
campus. Morewood Gardens is 
filled to capacity, and there are 21 
girls and a house mother living in 
Laurel Hall (the old Tau Delt 
House). During the first week of 
school some girls had to live in 
the infirmary. There are still a 
few girls on the waiting list for 
housing.
Although there are no imme
diate plans to expand the womens 
boarding facilities, Lillian Parshall, acting Dean of Women, 
commented that, If enrollment 
continues to increase, then there 
will have to be some additional 
housing made for women. She 
continued to add, This is the first 
year there has been this much 
overflow.
Despite the efforts of the ad
ministration to accommodate CIT
undergraduates, the number of 
men finding it necessary to live off 
campus has not decreased in com
parison to last year. This year 65 
additional spaces were available. 
However, because the freshman 
enrollment is composed of a 
smaller portion of commuters, the I 
dorms are overloaded.
Miller Hall will be torn down 
the second semester to make way 
for a new undergraduate dorm. 
The 14 students who are living 
there now will be added to the 
list of 120 already living off cam
pus.
New Mens Dorm
The new undergraduate mens 
dormitory, which will not be com
pleted until sometime next year, 
will satisfy the needs of 150 stu
dents. A total of 667 students now 
live on campus, 376 in the fra
ternity houses.
ENGLISH: highway for mu|#i 

ENGLISH: writing 
instrument for plagiariste"Gl,SH: talk.nQ dog
pf*Hes,B i
 !
5C0T
 !
 S
THWKUSH-. BUK*0**"E
THIN KUSH: SWlPeWRITEBTHINKUSH:
Lucky Strike presents
TH1NKUSH
the funniest, easiest way yet to make money!
make$25!Fat he r Wiig liSg reg
Speak English all your life and what does 
it get you? Nothing! But start speaking 
Thinklish and you may make $25! Just 
put two words together to form a new (and 
much funnier) one. Example: precision 
flight of bumblebees: Swarmation. (Note: 
the two original words form the new 
one: swarm+formation.) Well pay $25 
each for the hundreds and hundreds of
new Thinklish words judged best and 
well feature many of them in our college 
ads. Send your Thinklish words (with 
English translations) to Lucky Strike, 
Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Enclose 
name, address, college or university, and 
class. And while youre at it, light up a 
Lucky. Get the full, rich taste of fine to
baccothe honest taste of a Lucky Strike.
l ou re*.
Wpk kop spCmHCp uckHNwp
Get the honest taste
of a LUCKY STRIKE
Product of </&  Stfwceois our middle name
Assemblies
[continued from page 2] 
committee was instituted by Pres
ident Warner last year to improve 
the calibre of the assembly pro
grams. In its first year, the As
sembly Committee was quite suc
cessful and is hopeful this year of 
making even more progress; how
ever, more than any other de
ments, student attendance and%iterest are needed to make the en
terprise a success.
With two or three programs yet 
to be formulated, the schedule for 
1958-59 includes:
~ October 7Father Weigel.
October 14, 21, and November 
4Frontiers of Research, with 
three members of the Tech faculty 
as speakers.
October 28T e c h will hi\st 
Chancellor Litchfield of the IAversity of Pittsburgh, who toured 
Russia this summer and will dis
cuss 'Higher Education in the 
USSR.
November 11Life in Com
munist China will be discussed 
by Professors Ward and Gideman 
of the History Department.
November 18Hugo A. Meier of 
the History Department will speak 
on the social responsibilites^of 
American scientists and techn 5- 
gists.
December 16Christmas Assem
bly.
February 17-March 17English 
Department Lectures.
March 24Easter Assembly. 
April 28Passover Convocation. 
May 19The mysterious charm 
of the Orient will be the topic of 
Professor Sidney Hook of New 
York University.
---------------------i)
CIT Psychologist 
Continues Studies 
For Three Years
As announced in June, Asso
ciate Professor of Psychology and 
Education, Dr. Kenneth E. Moyer, 
will continue his two-year old pro
ject in psychoendocrinology, or the 
study of the endocrine glands k Ai 
their relation to emotional behav
ior. The National Institute of 
Health grant supporting his work 
was extended for an additional 
three years.
His experiments with rats have 
indicated that adrenalin, one of 
the best-known endocrine secre
tions, may not have the relation
ship to fear and anxiety which is 
commonly attributed to it. He has 
raised or lowered the adrend 
supply of many groups of ratss, by 
injecting added amounts or by re
moving the adrenal glands, but 
thus far the rats responses have 
not reflected the changed condi
tions.
During the next three years Dr. 
Mdyer will expand his original 
grant for adrenalin study to cov
er work on many other endocrine 
glands as well. These include the 
thyroid, pituitary, pancreas,  )1 
sex glands, all of which are in
terrelated and responsible for 
regulating various types of psy
chological behavior.
One of the principal experi
ments planned will be a study of 
the part endocrines play in shock 
therapy, a method of treating 
mental disorders which doctors 
use successfully but cannot ex
plain.
Using the theory that shock Th y 
cause the endocrines to alter the 
flow of their secretions, Dr. Moyer 
will observe whether or not the 
treatment is still effective in rats 
with various glands removed.
Research
[continued from page 2] 
erick N. Rhines, Professor of light 
metals, metallurgical engineeri' j, 
was awarded $25,604, and a study 
of the high intensity of x-radiolysis, under the direction of Mr. 
Gilbert J. Mains, assistant pro
fessor of chemistry received a 
$14,055 contract.
These contracts are part of the 
commissions continuing policy to 
encourage research and make use 
of the laboratory facilities of ed
ucational and private institution?.
