the Tartan
Volume 67Number 5__________________________________________________________________________________ Wednesday, October 4, 1967General Gavin Wants To Turn Country AroundFraternity Booths Depict 1st CMII Homecoming Victory
Fraternity Row will be spashed with the Sights and 
Sounds of the Sixties, as booths are built and then com
pleted to celebrate our annual Homecoming game. Bach 
booth will depict its fraternitys view on the outcome of 
the C-MU-F&M gameVICTORY! Listed below are the 
titles and brief descriptions of the individual booths.
Alpha Tau OmegaThe Al
pha Tau Omega Model C-MU/
by John Mera
General James M. Gavin made 
clear his position on the war in 
Vietnam in a speech to the 
Worlds Affair Council at the 
Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel on Sep
tember 29.
In his speech entitled Tech
nology in foreign affairs, the 
General, who has been a tacit 
objector of the present course 
of action in Vietnam, made the 
following points: The people of 
the United States have been 
misled by President Johnson. In 
1964, we elected Lyndon B. 
Johnson because he wanted to 
prevent the occurance of what 
Senator Goldwater advocated to 
do in Vietnam. Yet the exact 
things are happening in Vietnam 
now. This has come about as a 
result of our misunderstanding 
of what has happened in foreign 
policy.
The United States is the most 
powerful nation in the world. 
However, the General contends 
that the concept of power has 
been misused. We do not have 
any kind of a mission in the 
world. The defense of South 
Vietnam is not vital to our se
curity. The present course we 
are following is dangerous.
Our initial commitment in 
Vietnam was an advisory . posThe Naval Officer Programs 
Team invites interested men, in 
the Pittsburgh area to discuss 
Opportunities in Naval Officer 
Programs with the team who 
will be visiting on campus on 
Nov. 10th.
The Naval Officer Program 
Team consists of highly quali
fied consultants who provide 
the Gateway to Naval Officer 
Programs for eligible college 
men in the state of Pennsyl
vania, Delaware, sections of 
West Virginia and New York. 
Several Officer Candidate Pro
grams leading to a commission 
in the Naval Service and the 
coveted Navy Wing of Gold will 
be offered. Candidates who wear 
glasses can also qualify.
Depending upon the program 
selected, a young man must 
be in good standing in college 
or have graduated from college 
and be between the ages of 18 
and 27 V0 years. Prior active 
military service can extend age 
limitations. He must successful
ly complete a comprehensive
ition. The United States should 
have never commited combatant 
forces to Vietnam, the General 
added. We can either escalate or 
de-escalate the war. Escalation 
of the war would mean the in
vasion of North Vietnam and 
bringing China into the conflict. 
This would have very serious 
repercussions. Our technology 
has advanced to the stage where, 
in a war, there are no victors 
or vanquished but only the vic
tims. War is like crime. It is 
ever present and cannot be com
pletely removed. Therefore it 
must be contained.
The General advocates de es
calation He feels that America 
should not fear what history 
will say about them. The bomb
ing of North Vietnam leads to 
a more intense effort by the 
enemy and should be stopped. 
We should turn the country 
around and concentrate our 
financial and manpower re
sources on the solution of do
mestic problems. Dcescalation 
would take five to ten years.
General Gavin is supported 
by the Americans for Democra
tic Action (ADA) on a Dump 
Johnson ticket. However, the 
General refused to make any 
comment 122 the subject, adding 
that he was not a poliician.
mental qualifying test, a Navy 
physical examination and be in
terviewed by a Naval Officer 
Board. Mental tests may be ad
ministered on campus by the 
Team. Upon successful comple
tion of the mental qualifying 
test, the candidate is provided 
transportation at his conven
ience to and from the nearest 
appropriate recruiting office for 
the purpose of physical examina
tion and interview. Room and 
board will be provided at no 
cost or obligation to individuals 
who participate.
Officer Programs now offered 
include such specialities as Na
val Aviator, Navigator, Bombadier, Radar Intercept Officer, 
Air Intelligence, Line and Staff 
Officer and other highly skilled 
management opportunities in 
the Navy.
Training is conducted at Pen
sacola, Florida for aviation can
didates and at Newport, Rhode 
Island for Line and Staff Corps 
candidates.
Ray Charles Years 
Full of Jazz Genius
These are the Ray Charles 
years. In the field of music, no 
discussion can take place with
out reference to the genius who 
has changed the musical scene 
so drastically.
A look into the world of Ray 
Charles could well provide in
spiration for anyone. Blinded at 
childhood, Ray has achieved 
more than most people with 
sight.
Ray was born in 1932 in Al
bany, Ga. Six years later the 
Charles family was living in 
Greenville, Fla., and the first 
tragedy struck Ray when he 
v/as blinded completely and with
out hope for recovery.
The six - year - old youngster 
was sent to St. Augustine, Fla., 
where he grew up in a school 
for blind children. Ray reach
ed the age of 15 before fate 
struck its next hard blow. That 
year, both of his parents died. 
Ray was orphaned and with
out a relative in the world.
It was at this point that the 
Ray Charles career began devel
oping. He left school and went
Ray Charles
out on his own. He had acquired 
some musical knowledge and 
immediately he was hired to 
play around Florida with a vari
ety of bands. Within two years 
he had an enviable reputation 
as a sideman. At 17, the youngs
ter organized his first trio with 
a bass and guitar to blend with 
his piano and sax. Gaining wide 
acceptance in Florida, the trio 
eventually wound up in Seattle, 
Wash., where Ray had what he 
describes today as his biggest 
thrill in the business. His trio 
appeared on a regular radio 
show in the city, and they were 
the first Negro act to have a 
sponsored television show in the 
Northwest. Rays says his first 
trio sounded more or less like 
Nat King Coles. Cole was tae 
first great musical influence on 
the Charles talents. But, says 
Ray, I knew I had to change if
I was going to get anywhere. I 
knew I had to develop a style 
of my own. The basis for what 
he did develop was his firm con
viction that music should ex
press peoples true feelings. 
Sincerity is his watchword.
According to Ray, with every 
bit of music he writes or per
forms, I want people to feel 
my soul. I try to bring out 
my soul so that people can 
understand what I am. His 
great success is evidence 
enough that lie has accom
plished just that.
Music is Rays life and his
way of life. Of his music and 
his success, Ray, a very arti
culate man of very few words, 
says, Too many artists, after 
reaching a point of success, 
just record anything, getting 
by on their past performances.
I want my current record, and 
the record after that to be bet
ter than anything Ive done 
before. You have to improve 
and keep improving to stay on 
top. You cant fool the pub
lic.
Although he draws upon es
tablished material in the jazz 
idiom, in the popular realm, and 
in the rhythm and blues domain 
for tunes to record and perform, 
more than 90 per cent of the 
numbers recorded and played 
by Ray Charles before live audi
ences are his own compositions.
Through his wonderful world 
of music, Ray has brought light 
out of the darkness unto himself 
and the resulting inspiration 
shines in his very performance. 
Not only has he found his own 
personal light, but by means of 
his sensitive and deeply person
al performances, he has shined 
a light into dark areas of the 
world where there are fewer 
rays of cheer. He is truly The 
Genius.
HOMECOMING
Tickets on Sale 
Baker Hall
10:302:30 Daily
9til Oct. 20
67 Computer. Following the 
increasing trend in this decade 
to use computers in analyzing 
and solving problems, theC-MU 
-67 has been programmed to 
accurately forecast the outcome 
of various events of the 60s. 
User G566 has been able to de
velop a program which gives an 
unbiased, yet explosive predic
tion of the Homecoming game.
Beta Sigma Rho  Singers 
and Dances of the Sixties. Ex
cerpts from popular songs tell 
the story as the program for 
BSRs Homecoming unfolds this 
year. The game and its future 
is foretold by recording artists 
of the sixties while the move
ments of the players are com
pared to new dances. Carica
tures of artists and moving play
ers will add to the action of the 
booth.
Beta Theta PiTartan Field 
Day at the U.N. One of the 
most outstanding events of the 
sixties is presented by Nikita 
Khrushchev pounding his shoe 
at the U.N. during the Cuban 
mdssle crisis. Because the Amer
ican leaders displayed great 
courage and strength, we de
pict mighty CMU teaching the 
notorious Diplomats the Tartan 
translation of rushin.
Delta Tau Delta  Up, Up 
and Away CMU scores touch
down after touchdown as F&M 
players are distracted by a mini
skirted cheerleader. Sights and 
sounds of the sixties enhance 
a Tartan triumph.
Delta Upsi IonThe PopTartan-Art Show The most talKed-about art of the sixties is 
focused upon in the form of a 
popfotball game. D.U.s favorite 
Tartan, Pop Carnegie, leads the 
attack against those evil, yet 
harmless villains of F&M. Of 
course the PopTartans are vic
torious amidst the glamour, glit
ter, and absurdity of the p>p 
arena, and its happenings, hot 
dogs, hippies, and heroes.
Mens Dorm Council  The 
(Continued on Page 4. )
Campus Notices................................................................................2
Editorial ..............................................................................................4
The Epitome of Pendantry ...........................................................5
In and Around Pittsburgh .............................................................6
Sports ...................................................................................................7
Tartan Gallery...................................................................................8
What's Doing on Campus ..............................................................6
Sports .................................................................................................8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 4, 1967
Mile. Sponsors 
College Competitions
Mademoiselle magazine is 
currently sponsoring the 1967- 
]968 college competitions in the 
areas of Fiction, Poetry, Art, and 
Photography, in addition to the 
College Board Competition. The 
20 winners of the latter con
test are named Guest Editors 
of Mademoiselle and brought to 
New York by the magazine to 
spend the month of June as 
salaried employees helping to 
edit the magazines August col
lege issue. The College Board
Competition is designed for 
those who have ability irj writ
ing, editing, layout, illustration, 
fashioning, beauty, promotion, 
merchandising or advertising, 
as well as those who are able 
to spot campus trends, report 
college news and submit ori
ginal ideas.
Winners of the 1967-68 Art, 
Photography, Fiction and Poe
try competitions will have their 
work published in the August 
1968 issue of Mademoiselle as 
well as receive cash prizes.
For further contest details, 
write to College Competitions 
Department, Mademoiselle, 420 
Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 
10017.
Attention Faculty and Students
Savings on Furniture and Rugs
Bona fid discounts to 40% off at nearby manufacturer's 
showrooms. Save on Lane, Thomasville, Bassett, Dux, 
Herman Miller, Paul McCobb, Thayer Coggin, etc.
BIG 2 for 1 RUG SALE
BUY 9x12 (or larger) at Regular Price 
 GET 9x12 FREE -1000 NEW 9x12 RUGS - $29, $39, $49, $69
6x9s, 9x15s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 12x18s, Etc.
IP ONLY ONE RUG IS NEED-ASK FOR SPECIAL LOW PRICE!
Savingi
5432 WALNUT STREET
soFur rt iedRBIGR2 ftIr 1UUAIL
OPEN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. DIAL 62M025
e Serving the College Trade 
EXPERIMENTAL FILM GROUP
. presents .
CHARLIE CHAPLINinMODERN TIMES
One of the ten best pictures of all timeCahiers du Cinema 
Wednesday, October 11, at 2-4-6-8-10 p.m.
SKIBO BallroomCarnegie-Mellon Univ.
Students and Faculty75<
A story of the new-beat bold-tempo mods and minis... 
and a teacher who was strong and hip enough to make them 
cool it and call him "Sir"!
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents
SIDNEY POITIER
JAMES CUVELLS PRODUCTION OF
Ai
TO SIRjWITHLOVE

EnSaoCS1H1PN MO
12th WEEK
CMU Profs lecture for Free University
Two Carnegie-Mellon faculty 
members and one graduate stu
dent are among the teachers of 
Pittsburgh Free University 
classes which began this week 
at various locations in Oakland.
Prof. A. Fred Sochatoff, pop
ular English teacher, will lead 
a six-session series with some 
lecturing on Trends in Modern 
Drama. The classs first meet
ing is tomorrow night, Thurslay, Oct. 5, at 7:30 pm at the 
Lutheran University Center, 
4515 Forbes Ave. Contemporary 
dramatic works which perpetu
ate traditional patterns, and 
those which explore new meth
ods, and the ideas which they 
examine, will be discussed.
Prof. Robert Henshaw of the 
biology department, known for 
his tales of adventure in re
searching hibernation animals, 
will discuss Biological Decis
ions in Modem Society in four 
to six sessions which will begin 
tomorrow night, Thursday, Oct. 
5, at 7 pm at the United Oak
land Ministry Center, Fifth and 
Bellefield. Issues on which de
cisions will affect society will 
be discussed, such as euthan
asia, the nature of death, evolu
tion and restrictive laws, conservationism, the biology of sex, 
eugenics, etc.
Nicholas Zvegintzov, a grad
uate in GSIA, is offering five 
discussions on Highlights of 
the Chinese Revolution which 
began last night at 7:30 pm 
in 56 Skib and will continue for 
four more Tuesdays. The group 
is still open to additional people. 
Zvegintzov recently wrote a 
series of articles on How to 
Be a China-Watcher Through 
in Pittsburgh which appeared 
in a local newspaper.
Complete information on Pitts
burgh Free University courses 
is available at 57 Skibo.
v nthone Review
Barefoot In The Park
..by.. 
TONY LAWRENCE
There isnt a whole lot that can be said about Barefoot in the 
Park at this point. Its been an immensly successful Broadway play 
and one that has played in probably every stock company imagin
able.
Nevertheless, Hal Wallis has used a delightful approach in 
turning this Neil Simon comedy, for which Simon has also writ
ten the screenplay, into a pretty funny film. Robert Redford re
creates his Broadway role, and replacing Elizabeth Ashley is Jane 
Fonda, who seems to be turning into a pretty good actress.
A couple of young marrieds move into a six-floor, if you 
count the front stop, walk-up. Once there, they begin to discover 
each others annoying qualities. She says that he has no sense 
of the absurd. He accuses her of irrationality. In any event thats 
about as far as it goes. Simon seems to be more of a gag writer, 
and a great one at that, than a playwright.
Mildred Natwick amusingly plays Jane Fondas mother very 
well, though Marion Larne would have been a funnier choice. 
Charles Boyer plays an eccentric, though it isnt certain exactly 
what it is hes cupposed to be. Its good to see Boyer around 
again, if for nothing else just to show that hes still alive.
Direction by Gene Saks is excellent. Being able to find all the 
humor in specific moments is difficult in a film comedy; one must 
be right all the time. Saks has even thrown in some extra laughs. 
Performances by Robert Redford and Jane Fonda are most grati
fying. Always convincing, they are never tiresome or contrived.
Having an unusually low tolerance for plays like this, I truly 
enjoyed this. You may find Fonda and Redford running Barefoot 
in the Park at the Chatham Cinema, which itself is a delight to 
to go to.
P.S.: Specia-l thanks to A1 Einstein for driving.
P.P.S.: One of the funniest films ever made is being shown 
Saturday night in the Ballroom at 8 pm: A Night at the Opera 
starring the Marx Brothers. By far one of the most intelligent 
choices for a dorm movie yet . . .
THE
GENIUS
IS
COMING 
OCT. 20.
New Art Form Used
GRADUATE STUDENTS
All Graduate Students will be required to report to the Office 
of the Cashier, Warner Hall 12, on one of the three days, Octo
ber 11, 12, or 13, 1967, to complete financial settlement for Fall 
Semester 1967-68.
The Cashiers Office will be open from 8:30 am to 4:30 pm 
and 6:30 to 9 pm on these days.
On completion of financial settlement, Graduate Students will 
receive an identification card, and after October 3, no checks will 
be cashed without the presentation of this card.
Late registration penalties will be imposed for failure to com
plete the academic portion of registration on September 11 or 12 
and/or the financial arrangements by October 13, 1967. 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL
On Wednesday and Thursday nights, Oct. 4 and 5, the staff 
of the Carnegie Technical will circulate through the mens dorms 
and Morewood Gardens in a final campaign for subscriptions.
The Carnegie Technical, awarded first place in national com
petition as an undergraduate magazine, can be subscribed to at 
the rates of $1.25/year and $3.00/three years. What makes it num
ber one? Subscribe and find out.I"!?!'11 AWS Council BulletinThe National Theatre of the 
Deaf, one of the most unusual 
theatre attractions ever con
ceived, will be sponsored in 
Pittsburgh by the Drama De
partment of Carnegie - Mellon 
University and the Speech De
partment of the University of 
Pittsburgh. The two perfor
mances will be held on October 
5 and 6 at 8:30 pm at Mount 
Mercy College. The four plays 
are an exciting new art form in 
which deaf people use a de
veloped form of sign language 
incorporating mime and dance. 
The internationally famous 
French sculptor Francois Baschet has designed the musical 
instruments which will serve as 
background for these perfor
mances.
Tickets for the performances 
will be $4.00 with a special stu
dent rate of $1.50. They may 
be purchased at Mount Mercy 
College, University of Pitts
burgh, CMU, or at the door on 
the evenings of performance. 
Further ticket information may 
be obtained by phoning 621-2600 
Ext. 429.
1. Fall electeions to fill posts vacated over the summer, resulted 
as follows: A-Tower Judicial, Gloria Treppel; B-Tower VP, 
Martha Fontaine; E-Tower Apartments, Terry Smith; and 
Woodlawn Apartments, Ellen Ackerman.
2. Any person withdrawing from any residence hall on campus 
must now fill out new forms which are available in the hous
ing office.
3. Mrs. Doyle has left Morewood as of the end of September.
4. Plans are being made to install screens in all windows in t^e 
dormitory. These screens must remain on the windows. Calling 
out of the windows is a Judicial Council offense.
5. The fisrt new elevator will be installed in June, 1968.
6. Parking regulations in Morewood circle are flagrantly vio
lated. Security has no choice but to proceed with the authorized 
program to tag all cars parked in the circle. If violations con
tinue, cars will be towed. Will all girls please cooperate to keep 
the circle open for short stops and emergencies.
7. A committee has been set up to investigate new facilities for 
Skibo, including Suzanne Lindamood, Karen Norbut, Ricki Bord
en, Pat Bowman, and Marilyn Blitz.
8. E-Tower security regulations will be changed to accommodate 
girls in the tower to make the apartments a more integral part 
of Morewood.
9. We will be joining national AWS this year as provisional mem
bers.
10. There will be a page system installed in the lobby to facilitate
closing the dormitory at curfew.
11. The Rec Room will be completed in October.
12. The first Open House will be Sunday, Oct. 8.
Judy Resnik, Secretary
The Royal Shakespeare Company
PETER BROOK S MOTION PICTURE VERSION 
OF THE ORIGINAL BROADWAY STAGE PRODUCTION
whmmuAHb whhmhussmttAM 9HeM-'MuLfT\HKH I
Aptkfmibwwt mm
umk THE MWH 9F THiMAtyllIS biMht
TO SIRIj WIHLL
thehT ar DeLuxe 
UNITED ARTISTS
iA ) 'f'UCUSl ce
'a&jcnzM

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 4, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 3
Hey Kids  What
^Jhroucjh ^Jhe cjCookincj Cjfa . . .
The Funny Farm
... by TIMOTHY BAY
Time Is It?
Marat Shade, now at the Shady 
side, abounds in an imaginative 
use of both theatrical stylization 
and vivid cinematic imaginary.
The movie has much of the 
arresting power of the stage 
vers-on, while adapting itself in
geniously to the rich cinematic 
possibilities.
The setting of this drama is 
the bathhouse of the insane 
asylum at Charenton. Here, un
der the direction of the Marquis 
De Sade, the inmates reenact, 
for the benefit of the asylum 
director and two ladies, the mur
der of the french revolutionary 
Marat by Charlotte Corday. A 
monstrous pantomine with a 
chorus and song; the film is 
basically a debatean intricate 
and eloguent confrontation be
tween the two philosophies of 
Marat and De Sade. As De Sade 
puts it, the point of the play 
has been . . . to take to bits 
Great proposition and their op
posites; The End some light 
upon our doubt. De Sade, the 
most sane member of the com
pany, has been incarcerated by 
society for his perverse beliefs 
and practices.  (The real De 
Sade actually did spend time in 
asylums). De Sades cold stoi
cism is in opposition to Marats 
revolutionary humanism. The 
murder of Marat is presented as 
a ritual  we see Corday ap
proach Marats door three times 
in the play.
The chorus, composed of the 
grotesque inmates, comment 
ironically on the action; when
ever they get too excited, they 
are calmed down by the direc
tor. The Play thus shifts gears 
constantlyfrom long and elo
quent speechs to musical inter
ludes and interruptions. The 
camera both involves the audNew Director Plans Exciting Feature
Mr. Robert A. Stewart has 
come to C-MU as Dii-ector cf 
Housing and Food Service from 
Washington University in St. 
Louis, where he was the Direc
tor of Housing for six years.
At C-MU, Mr. Stewarts of
fice will handle all problems 
dealing with food and housirg 
which previously were handled 
through two separate depart
ments. This area of responsibil
ity affects everyone one from 
dorm residents to faculty mem
bers. The cafeterias of Morewood Gardens and Skibo also 
come under this departments 
jurisdiction.
Certain homes which faculty 
occupy while they are teaching 
at the University, are actually 
owned by C-MU, and are, there
fore under the directorship of 
Mr. Stewart. He also maintains 
a listing of off-campus housing 
which is available to students.
Concerned with student opin
ion for present facilities as well 
as future ones, he meets with 
the Student Union Committee 
and the Student Food Commit
tee in order to obtain ideas directly.
In the next ten years the
University is planning to spend
from ten to 20 million dollars
ience and disengages it. Drama
tically, we are moved into the 
heat of the action with express 
sive close ups of Marat, Corday, 
etc. In an audacious and dis
quieting use of the camera, 
Brooks stations it at the stage 
from the back of the audience, 
We see people in the theatre 
leave in disgust at intervals, and 
at the end, in frightening climax 
to the frenzied chaos on stage, 
the audience rushes up to the 
cage enclosing the actors.
The performances are of a 
piece with the play and direc
tion. Patrick McGee as the cold, 
imperious De Sade is a master
ful portrait; like the other per
formances, however, it is sub
ordinated to the whole effect. 
Terrific things are done with the 
camera and light: the erie dis
torting effect of the storm cov
ering the actors; the washed 
out quality of the light coming 
from a barely discemable win
dow; the fine use of a wide-an
gle lens to include the entire 
stage. The set is basically very 
simple, but out of the imagin
ative use of the camera, a 
wealth of detail is explored.
For no other reason than to 
see beautifully acting, Marat 
Sade is worth seeing.
For those who may be inter
ested: The daring young man 
of the stratospheric cinema por
traying new depths of human 
depravity will be showing his 
raw and sensuous extravaganza 
in The Listening Room on Sat
urday Ooctober 7, at 8:00 pm. 
For all those who are bored with 
conventional dorm movies, be 
here to watch the unveiling of 
the work of the director de
scribed by Time Magazine as 
"the worst fraud in the Amer
ican Cinema since Vera Ral 
ston.
JOIN 
THE A.H.C.
Wateh Ihe TARTAN 
for Further 
Instructions
on new facilities, and students 
are now able to participate *n 
the planning. Already plans 
for the new wing of Skibo are 
being discussed, and any ideas 
are welcomed.
C-MU has an exciting future 
ahead as Mr. Stewart knows. "I 
love to plan these things and it 
will be a very exciting ten 
years. That is why I came hero.
Experimentis Give 
First Chaplin Show
The complete feature films of 
Charlie Chaplin, from City 
Lights to Limelight, will be giv
en their premiere presentation 
this year by the Carnegie-M3llon Experimental Film Group. 
The opening program, Wednes
day, Oct. 11, features Modem 
Times, Chaplins last film to em
ploy the character of The 
Tramp. Moderns Times was, on 
its initial appearance, the most 
popular Chaplin film of them 
all.
The Chaplain retrospective will 
be an event of major cultural 
importance for the Pittsburgh 
area. In the last 15 years, only 
New York City has seen an allinclusive presentation of the ma
jor works of the man who was, 
perhaps, Americas greatest 
film artist.
Following Modem Times, the 
CMU Experimental Film Group 
will present: City Lights (Nov. 
15), The Kid (Dec. 13), Monsieur 
Verdoux (Jan. 10), The Great 
Dictator (Feb. 20), The Gold 
Rush (March 20), and The Cir
cus (April 17). Limelights will 
be shown early in May.
Modern Times will be shown 
in the Skibo Ballroom at 2, 4, 6,
8, and 10 pm. Admission will be 
75 cents.
Production Begins; 
SnS Posts Open
With the Fall term only a 
few weeks old, work has already 
begun on this years production 
of Scotch n Soda. Scotch n 
Soda is made up of students 
from all departments who are 
interested in working on thea
trical produtcions. In the past 
S n S has concentrated most of 
its work on the production of 
an original musical that is writ
ten, directed, and staffed by 
club members. This year, how
ever, S n Ss executive board, 
working under a new constitu
tion, hopes to place more emphisis on a year round program 
of productions. The schedule 
ranges from Freshman Orien
tation and Homecoming to two 
one-act musicals to be produced 
in May.
S'nS is now accepting appli
cations for the Production staff 
lighting designer, set designer, 
costume designer, two directors, 
choreographer, and publicity di
rector. Starting Monday, Oct.
9, information kits will be avail
able in Skibo 103, for those per
sons wishing to fill the vacant 
positions. Experience is desir
able and applicants will be re
quired to demonstrate ability in 
their individual areas. For those 
students interested in actual 
performance, casting will begin 
in December. Watch the Tartan 
for further information. Contact 
Len Alexander 521-4603 for im
mediate questions.
Poetry Contest Held 
For Filth Year
The Kansas City Poetry Con
tests, which offer $1,600 and 
the publication of a book of 
poems as awards, have been an
nounced for the fifth consecu
tive year. For the first time 
entries will be accepted in all 
categories from the entire coun
try.
The Contests have four divis
ions: the Hallmark Cards awards 
of six $100 prizes for single 
poems by college students; the 
Devins Memorial Award of $500 
and publication of a book of 
poems; the Kansas City Star 
awards of four $100 prizes for 
single poems; and four H. Jay 
Sharp prizes of $25 each for 
poems by high school students.
The Devins Award winner 
will be published and distri
buted by the University of Missiouri Press. The closing date
Voice Your Choice For New Facilities
Plans are now being made 
for the new wing of Skibo, and 
there is no better time to voice 
your opinion concerning the 
new facilities. The Student Union 
Committee will have a booth 
set up Thursday from 8:30 to 
5:00 at Baker Hall, 8:30 to 6:00 
at Skibo, and Friday from 10:30 
to 5:00 at Baker, and 10:30 to 
6:00 at Skibo. If you have any
thing to say, lets hear it. Well 
be there and we want to know.
for all entries is Jan. 31, 1968 
and winners will be announced 
at the last event of the 1967-68 
American Poets Series at the 
Jewish Community Center, Kan
sas City. Information may be 
obtained by writing to: Editor, 
Carnegie Technical, Box No. 16, 
Campus Mail.
ATTENTION . . . Faculty and Graduate Students . . .
For your insurance needs:
Automobile or Home Owners contact:
JOHN JACCESKO . . . Phone 261-5975, ext. 244 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE BOSTON, MASS.
Slide Ralers 01 The World Uiite!
YOU HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE BUT . . . you can join the  
IMAD Club. Membership now open. Lifetime "professional" 
membership card with beautiful, gold-plated, hand-polished 
slide rule tie-clasps. (Engraved calibrations and numerals).
Decorative'and useful. Has that fine jewelry look.
Nicely boxed conversation piece. Only $1.00 ppd.
CUSTOMCRAFT CREATIONS
P. O. Box 1111, Dept. CTT1, Providence, Rhode Island 02901
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR AU YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
SvDnPv nTSavohn
* 3711 FORBES AVENUE +
t Phone: 683-2181 }
Student Discount on Most Items
MY CHARLES
RAELETS
It* Qc4^CC\t
KENNEDY HALL
ST. VINCENT 
COLLEGE
HvEP1MWK fvK
Sat-, OH. yc, y:.V
9 P.M.
Hitt4>rr4*d Tivkelt*:
S 1.00 & $5.100
G+mrrml. I dmi**in (door only)
RESERVED TICKETS WRITE: 
L\ BOX 2000
ST. VINCENT COLLEGE 
LATROBE. PA 15650

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 4, 1967
EDITORIAL
The Gregory Trilogy: 
Comedy, Rights, Politics.
In his speech here last week comedian and political aspirant Dick Gregory delivered a rather paradoxical message. Although his speech was peppered with humor, his intent was totally serious. The topic was racism, the emphasis on youth.
He set forth a demanding challenge, almost bordering in a threat. Somehow the racial problems which have been developing in this country for over 400 years have to be settled within the next three years. If theyre not, according to Gregory, Were in trouble. Weve used up all the lies, and no one listens anymore.
His position reflects the general attitude of our generation : liberation now. He is a militant, hiding under the label of vegetarian-pacifist, a term which he does not define or defend. His militancy is apparent in his references to the Preamble to the Constitution, specifically concerning the right of a faction to revolt against any prolonged oppression by the existing government. However, this position is dangerous because responsible civil rights leaders have consistently refuted the use of violence as a method for attaining their goals. The majority of the Negro population has suffered greater setbacks as a result of the riots than any positive progress seems to warrant.
What Mr. Gregory does not realize is that the Negroes, makiing up 11 per cent of our population, are but one of the many minorities in the United States. Any minority wishing to bring about a change in the government must do so within the framework of the Constitution, which allows the existence of such minorities. If the minorities violate these laws, it is the prescribed duty of the government to control the lawless, who are threatening the security of the majority. Government is of such nature that it must have authority, i.e., power to insure that all citizens obey the law; the law making it possible for the government to exist by the consent of the people.
We agree that the situation of the Negro warrants immediate solution. However, the attempts to remedy the injustice must be made within the law, and not by insurrection in the name of constitutional rights. It seems a great paradox that anyone would claim the protection of the government, while at the same time advocating breaking the laws of the government. Mr. Gregory refutes the pacifist ways of Martin Luther King. Like other civil rights leaders, Mr. Gregory wants to be popular. Thus his middle of the road stand shows that he is a politician just as concerned with votes as he is with rights.
the Tartan
LEN WANETIK 
Editor-in-Chief
Executive Editor.........................................................JOHN MERA
Managing Editor...................................................LARRY SIKON
Business Manager...,.........................................JIM NEUMEISTER
Desk Editor ..........................................SUZANNE LINDAMOOD
News Editor..................................................ANNE RUNNINGER
Assistant Desk Editor .........................Barbara Moses
Assistant News Editor ...........................Rich Steffens
Sports Editor ...............................................Jim Janke
Photography Editor ...............................Laura Seidler
Local Advertising Manager...........Caroll Swarmer
National Advertising Manager........Fredda Simon
Layout Editor ......................................Ellen Blissman
Assistant Layout Editor ...................Marilyn Werner
Secretarial Editor .................................Nancy Young
Printing Production Manager...............Henrik Lind
Circulation Managers ..........................Bab Porter
Rachel Katzen
Editorial Advisor .........................................Liz Seley
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL. ADVERTISING BYNational Educational Advertising Services
A DIVISION OF 
Pnv!nPNi !ChniE ivHni Ur inPmCSniY CoSK
360 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017
Homecoming . . .
(Continued from Page 1 )
Trip. The theme of the display 
will be carried out through the 
use of Op art, colored lights, 
and an appropriate color scheme. 
A viewer will become involved 
and part of it, rather than re
main a disconnected observer.
Kappa SigmaWipeout . . . 
or . . . the dips take a dip!'  
Surfs up but Franklin and Mar
shall is down as the Diplomats 
wipeout on the powerful Tar
tan tidal waves.
Phi Kappa ThetaCarnegie 
Soes the Seeds of the 60s The 
Phi Kappa Theta display depicts 
the historic growths of the Carnegie-Mellon campus in the 60s, 
towering above the display 
stands Andrew Carngie, tossing 
the seeds of growth upon the 
campus. As each seed takes 
root, a newspaper headline ap
pears and announces the con
struction of each of the five 
buildings which have appeared 
on the Carnegie campus in the 
60sthe Hunt Library, Skibo, 
Scaife Hall, Warner Hall, and 
Mellon Institute. A caricature 
of each of these buildings will 
then grow up out of the ground 
and take its place on campus. 
The display ends by revealing 
the surprising outcome of the 
CMU-F&M Fcotball game when 
a strange seed falls to ground 
and the Carnegie Mellon rolls 
over F&M.
Pi Kapa AlphaThe Omni
potent Carnegie - Mellon The 
merging of the great Carnegie 
Mellon wipes away all the 
bad sights and sounds of the 
60s, including the F&M foot
ball team  rendering itself 
united and indestructible.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Who of! Blamm! Btoom! 
Thok! Somewhere, somehow, 
someone is hatching a fiend
ish plot to turn Homccoming 
into a shambles. Can it be that 
the campus is at the mercy of 
some strange, scurvy fiend? 
Can no one Help? Tune in, 
Turn on, Drop by the SAE 
booth for the whole, uncanny 
story.
Sigma Nu  CMU and the 
Invaders During the 60s, tele
vision has skyrocketed to un
surpassed popularity. With this 
in mind Sigma Nu, with its 
massive television set, presents 
a coupling of the reality of 
football with the fantasy of sci
ence fiction. Our viewers will 
be treated to an instant re
play of the closing seconds of 
the game when the Invaders 
save the day. Needing only one 
touchdown to win, a CMU ball
carrier is separated from vic
tory by three F&M would-betacklers. With the aid of the In
vaders flying saucer, CMU is 
able to score and provide our 
alumni with a victorious Home
coming.
Tau Delta PhiHells Tar
tan Wilt F&Ms Flower Power 
Out of the west, with a cloud 
of smoke, a trail of sparks, a 
roar of mighty engines, and a 
hearty High Ho Harley, Hell s 
Tartans, armed with their own 
flower power, descended onto 
CMUs battlefied and Wilt 
Franklin and Marshalls pansy 
power.
Theta XiCMU soars to Vic
tory In that great big football 
stadium in the sky, CMU soars 
to victory with the latest crea
tion of its students, the XB-69. 
F&M tries to stop CMU with 
their most advanced flying ma
chine, the Mad Zepplin. Em
barrassed and defeated they 
leave the field to CMU.
Up and Down
by
George Havach, S. J.
The name of the game is liv
ing with oneself.
For all our habitual and longestablished use of the word, ma
turity remains a rather muddled 
concept. Viewed as a goal, it 
marks the end of a long and 
battle-scarred quest for entrance 
into the glittering realm of 
adulthood; once having become 
an initiate, we are permitted to 
gaze with disdain and philan
thropic concern upon those still 
mired in the foggy swamps of 
immaturity. When they get old
er, theyll see how it is. But 
how is it? Today the tables are 
being turned in favor of the 
young and inexperienced 
whose claim to know where its 
at sets the established society 
back on their heels. Maturity to 
be possessed as an end-state is 
going by the boards in the face 
of a world where uncertainty is 
not so much a structural featuce 
of a static order, as an underly
ing substratum, a radical con
ditioning of all thought, all de
cision, all action, all achieve
ment.
Our idea of maturity as a 
fait accompli, a leveling-off at 
the point of wisdom, is itself 
immature. It fails to do jus
tice to the dynamics of our 
strivings, the direction of our 
efforts, and especially to the 
rhythms of our own conscious 
experience. For there is a per
sistent and pervasive cycle 
built into our human lives, 
whose very recurrence should 
shake us from a deathlike 
fixation on maturity as a froz
en perfection. To perceive this 
cycle, we need only live from 
day by day; and our clarity of 
perception deepens with the 
earnestness and purposeful
ness of our life-movement.
This underlying rhythm lends 
itself easily to directional label
ling: we feel up, or we feel 
down. We have a full vocabu
lary to draw on in dealing with 
it: we speak of moods, fits, per
iods, bright moments and 
dark hours, into things and 
out of it. Needless to say, 
there is a broad spectrum over 
which we may range, but the 
essential polarity within this 
rhythm is not only to be recog
nized, but appreciated.
Up and down. The fact that 
we can separate these two tones 
to our sense of living indicates 
that we have begun not merely 
to have feelings, but to live feel
ings. Our feelings, all that mar
velous set of attraction-repulsion response-modes, are not 
simply so much emotional gear 
which we must learn to manipu
late logically and rationally, as 
if we were one great machire 
which it is our duty to bring 
into smooth functioning. The 
mechanism will rebel, for it is 
sensitive  which means not 
only delicate, but founded on 
sense, on spontaneity, and on 
concrete immediateness. To be 
in pain does not mean that the 
gears have slipped somewhere, 
but that I am in contact, upsettingly so, with some facet cvf 
reality.
To be up or down, es
pecially ait those precious mo
ments of burning clarity which 
we call elation and despera
tion is to be brought near to 
experiencing the limits of the 
Life-flow itself: overflowing joy 
or suspension over chaos. There 
are high-and low-points to this 
flow, maxima and minima on 
the curve. We live from day to 
day contained within these lim
its: but in living we grow, and 
our insights must deepen with 
the incessant spurs of this 
rhythm if we are only willing 
to have these limits stretched 
further. And in growing we ma
ture; for to scale the peaks or 
to plumb the depths of our life 
as laid bare by the up and 
down cycle, we grasp that our 
awareness, our selfhood, is call
ed on to undergo a progressive 
refinement which we conscious
ly choose.
Our life is not a surf-board 
ride across reality, nor is ma
turity being able to stand on 
our board without losing our 
balance. Life is to be lived; and 
the amazing thing we discover 
is that it involves a choice which 
takes on deepening clarity each 
time it is affirmed. When were 
on top, were turned on to 
Life.Clarity of vision means a 
burst of energy and joy spring
ing from deep within us. As 
Harras, in Carl Zuckmayers 
play, The Devils General, pro
claimed, Take it from me, life 
is beautiful. The world is won
derful. . . . Its something we 
feel and possess in our best mo
ments. And when were down, 
the rug is pulled out from un
der us as our easiest assurances 
are stripped from us; the core 
of our intention is laid bare. 
Its existential decision time. 
But we have our whole past his
tory of past choices of life-overdeath to sustain us, and with 
the bridging of this new fear
some barrier, our on-going 
thrust inot life renews itself. 
There is a conjoint compensa
tion for braving the deep; as 
Teilhard de Chardin put it, The 
peak can only be measured from 
the abyss which it crowns.
And so our own life* has 
built into it an operation for 
constant renewal: This up 
down rhythm which so colors 
our outlook in the midst of 
our diversity of daily experi
ence. What can we say of 
maturity? It is the ability to 
leap successively over the hur< 
dies we encounter in our 
movement toward greater be
ing, to pass each of the criti
cal thresholds to new discov
ery, new insights. To seek to 
freeze life at any point would 
be to introduce a deepening 
sense of frustration into this 
movement. As Adrian van 
Raam (Psychology, Duquesne 
University) said, Man is the 
pilgrim who travels between 
day and night. The up and 
down of our lives patterns 
that of our world.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 4, 1967 - THE TARTAN - Page 5
ITS RAY CHARLES TIME
The E]litome of Pedantry
by
Berry W. Cornet
Something there is that doesnt love a wall, that wants it 
down . . . Especially when it is tenuously supporting Skibo, the 
Hunt Harmory or Warner Hall (otherwise known as the box that 
Scaife Hall came in). This is not to say that our wall is not per
forming its function in a dangerously dubious manner, but rather 
that, alas, it is ugly.
The uglification of our environ is defended by a handful of 
dogmatic loyalists (late of Warner Brothers Studios) in the names 
of progress, modernism, and (with reference to Warner Hall and 
the library) cubism. They huddle about around a window table in 
the Tartan Grill, praising its design and studying the landscape 
on the sun through atomic blasts. They whisper words of en
couragement into secretaries ears as they climb over desks in 
Warner Hall to enter the presidents office to pat themselves on 
their respective backs. They compose odes to physical phitness 
as they double and treble hernias opening locked door after 
door outside of Skibo.
These sorrowful souls of tastelessness are unaware of the mo
tivation behind their rationalizations. They are not the architects 
or the designers, but they are the economists. To remove a penny 
from them, one must unscrew it, then scamper stealthily away 
clutching penny to bosom while trying not to trip on the attached 
strings.
None of this (except, perhaps the Tartan Grill balliflcation 
[that is, the innovation of the hung light bulb ball] balconied off 
in early Howard Johnson) falls on President Stevers head. The 
tasteful president has assured us of better buildings. This is a 
scheme devoutly to be wished for as our School of Architecture is 
probably tired of laughing and would, perhaps like to ooh and 
ah.
A good beginning would be the commencement of construc
tion of Mr. Schweikhers Dramatic Arts building, the plans oi 
which are so old and wrinkled (having been put off more times 
than a bathroom light) that if the chief engineer were nearsighter he would build a 100 foot prune; a passe shape in this, the bana
na season.
As tuition goes up, perhaps some buildings will fall down; 
specifically, the afore mentioned tick-tacky trio. The occupants 
at the time may not be terribly pleased, but such is progress, for 
we all know that out of its own ashes, the Phoenix was resurrected. 
Hopefully out of the ugly ducklings rubble a swan will emerge 
and not another goose. Then we shall all say, in the words of 
John Arbuckle (founder of Martinsons Coffee), You get what 
you pay for at C-MU.
But not until then.Gregory Appoints Self 
As Prophet of Violence
Dick Gregory drags on his 
cigarette, leans forward over 
the podium, and quietly informs 
the audience that actuarial sta
tistics show the average white 
American lives six years longer 
than the average Negro Amer
ican. Its not the lead-in to a 
typical Gregory joke, though.
All Im living for now, he 
continues, softly but emphatic
ally, is to get as old as White 
America. So I can bug you till 
I die. What hes bugging us 
about is the imminent Negro 
revolt.
Dick Gregory, comedian turn
ed apocalyptic preacher, told an 
overflow crowd in Skibo last 
Tuesday that unless this coun
trys racial problems are solved 
within the next three years, 
this country wont stand.
Despite a lapel button which 
identifies him as write-in can
didate for President, Gregory 
admits he has no solutions, no 
plan for a safe and just Ameri
can society. He doesnt say 
what the Millenium might be 
like, he says only that the end 
is at hand, and its been a long 
time coming. Hes come to warn us.
The racial problem in Ameri
ca, according to Gregory, is far 
beyond the point where it can 
be solved by recognized, peace
ful, legal measures. Any time 
a country sends its soldiers ad 
over the world to guarantee peo
ple basic rights that its own 
people do not have, maybe were 
doing that country a favor to 
burn it down. This country, he 
says, is the most racist coun
try on the face of the earth, 
not only anti-Negro, but the 
most anti-Semitic country  es
pecially this East Coast.
The oppressed people of 
America, he says, have not only 
a right, but a duty, to over
throw the present government, 
which is sick, man, its sick. 
Referring to this summers 
riots, which he sees as not the 
last frantic gasp of Negro rad
icals, but as an amen of trou
ble to come, Gregory says, Ail 
those explosions are legal, un
der the Declaration of Indepen
dence.
Gregory has no faith what
soever in the Johnson adminis
tration, nor in the prospective 
administration of any 68 Pres
idential candidates: If Rocke
feller gets elected, Im really 
gonna split.
Gregorys view of his own 
role in the coming explosion 
is interesting. He insists he is 
not an activist, but a spokes
man. I dont believe in violence, 
but I understand violence . . . 
I am not violent in any shape, 
foiTn, or action, but America is 
a violent country . . . its gon
na be brought to its knees. Not 
a Horseman of the Apocalypse, 
but its prophet.
Panhellenic Council
presents
the 2nd Round Robbin
On Sunday 
OCTOBER 8th
from
1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m.
wvHHYi
CAMPUS-FAVORED... 
All 
Popular 
Prices!
? MEN 
HUSH-PUPPtES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES
3612 Forbes Avenue 
(Across from Strand Theatre)
? WOMEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
682 2928
THE SAN FRANCISCO MIME 
TROUPE IS COMING
'64 Hillman Minx. Four door, 
four speed, whitewalls, ra
dio, heater. Good condition. 
Private owner. $450. Mr. 
Frank, 391-3969.
LONELY? Like to meet new 
people? Try computerized 
dating program. For free 
dating program. For 
free brochure, write 
DATAMATIC, P.O. Box 7421 
Oakland Station, Pgh., Pa
Despite 
fiendish torture 
dynamic BiC Duo 
writes first time, 
every time!
Genra rugged pair of stick pens wins again in unending war against ball-point skip, clog and smear.Despite horrible punishment by mad scientists, me still writes first time, every time. And no wonder. Bics Dyamite Ball is the hardest metal made, encased in a solid brass nose cone. Will not skip, clog or smear no matter what devilish abuse is devised for them by sadistic students. Get the dynamic me Duo at your campus store now.
i-fk
G2LS
WATERMAN-BIC PEN CORP  ^ 
MILFORD. CONN.
BiC 
Medium 
Point 19
Original 
Hot Dog Shoppe
Over 10,000,000 Hot Dogs Sold
OPEN 24 HOURS 
Free Deliveries To All Dorms from 9 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. 
Minimum Order $2.00 
3901 FORBES AVE.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
1. Whats a math major doing with 2. Thats what you said about the"The Complete Guide to the spelunking outfit you IxmghtPruning of the Breadfruit Tree? last week.
It was a terrific buy.Listenthat was marked down 50!?
3. And the condor eggs?
Could you refuse 2 dozen for the price of one?
4. No wonder youre always broke. 
But look at the buys I get!
5. If you want a ood buy, why dont vou look into Living Insurance from Equitable? At our age the cost is low, and you get solid protection now that continues to cover your family later when you get married. Plus a nice nest egg when you retire.
Ill take two!
BiC Fine Point 25c
about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. >rtunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or
For informationFor career opportunities at Equit;__,__ _____
write: James L. Morite, Manager, College Employment.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 
An Ei/Udl Opportunity Employer, M/F Equitable 1967

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  THE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 4, 1967
IN AND 
AROUND
THEATER
The PlayhouseHamlet Stree Theater, Once Upon a Mattress 
by Mary Rodgers, Marshall Barer, Dean Fuller, and Jay Thompson. 
Directed by Robert Baker. Every night until Nov. 25. Craft Ave
nue Theater, The Tavern by George M. Cohan. Performance every 
night, starting Sept. 30 until Oct. 14.
National Theater of the Deaf presents a spectacular evening 
four plays: The Man with the Heart in the Highland, by William 
Soroyan, directed by Gene Lasko; The Tale of Kasane, by Tsuruya, 
directed by Yoshio Aoyama; Tyger Tyger and Other Burnings, 
directed by John Hirsch, adaptations by Eric Malzkuhn; and Gianni 
Schicci, adapted by Robert F. Panara and Eric Malzkuhn, directed 
by Joe Layton.
Mount Mercy Auditorium, Mount Mercy College; Oct. 5-6, 8:30 
pm. Tickets $4, students $1.50.
The University of Pittsburgh Theatre presents Harold Pinters 
The Caretaker; Cathedral of Learning, 10th floor; on October 6 at 
7:30 and 10 pm.
International Poetry ForumRobert Lowell; Oct. 5, 8:30 pm; 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Carnegie Museum. Student tickets $1.50.
Music Guild of Pittsburgh presents the American Ballet The
ater on Oct. 10 at 8:30 pm, Syria Mosque. Tickets $5.95, $4.95, $3.95, 
and 2.95 at National Record Marts, all Pittsburgh National Banks, 
Gimbels, Hornes, Kaufmanns, and Pitt Student Union .
MUSIC
Pittsburgh SymphonyKyung-Wha-Chung, violin soloist in 
Bruchs Scottish Fantasy for Violin and Orchestra. Program also 
includes Mozarts Symphony No. 34 in C Major and Tschaikowskys Symphony No. 6 in B Minor, Opus 74 (Pathetique). William 
Steinberg conducting; Syria Mosque; Friday at 8:40 pm and Sun
day at 3:15 pm.
Van Cliburn in an all Chopin Concert Saturday night, Oct. 7, 
at 8:30 pm; Syria Mosque. All reserved seats: $3.30, $4.40, $5.50, 
and $6.60 at Kaufmanns, Gimbels, Homes, and Pitt.
levia Wts To
Boom at the TopDuquesne Room, Duquesne University; Fri
day, October 6, at 7 and 9 pm.
Lincoln Center/Stage FiveFive Ballets of the Five Senses. 
An original choreographic work by John Butler. WQED, Chan
nel 13; October 6 10:30 pm and October 8 1:30 pm.
The Crumbling Wall will be open Friday 9-1, Saturday 9-1, 
Sunday 9-12, October 6 and 7; Film Festival: The Magician, Its 
About This Carpenter, Biniceros, Parable, and Pacific 231. Admis
sion free.
Whats Doing on Campus
Y THUBSDAY LUNCHEON FOBM
Science Teaching in the Public SchoolsDr. Max Braverman, radiation biologist, Allegheny General Hospital; October 5. 
Program meets at noon adjourns by 12:30 pm. 
CABNEGIE-MELLON DAMES
The annual tea will be held on Sunday, Oct. 8, in the High
lander Room, Skibo. All wives of students are invited.
FILM ABTS
A Bill of Divorcement; Thursday, Oct. 5; Porter Hall 100; 
4:30, 7 and 9 pm; members only.
Y FBIDAY CINE SEBIES
Blood of a Poet; Friday, Oct. 6; Porter Hall 10; 7:30 and 10 
pm; Y members 25c, others 75c.
DOBM MOVIE
Night at the OperaSkibo Ballroom; Saturday, Oct. 7.
AOS
The C-MU Student Affiliate Chapter of the American Chemi
cal Society is hold its first meeting of the school year on Tuesday, 
Oct. 10, at 8:30 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium. A film on 
the evolution of Mellon Institute will be shown following which 
refreshments will be served. All those interested in our new 
University are invited to attend.
AICE
Dr. Max Peters, vice-president of the 30,000 member Ameri
can Institute of Chemical Engineers, will be in Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, Oct. 4, to aadress a meeting of the Pittsburgh Sec
tion of the AICE. He will discuss the Role of Nitrogen Oxides in 
Air Pollution. The meeting will be held in Skibo at 8 pm.
ASME
Meeting of the American Society of Mechnical Engineers on 
Tuesday, Oct. 10, 3:30-5:30 pm in HH 11. Drs. Osterle and Swedlow will speak about graduate school and will answer questions. 
A PHI O
Tech Record Dance on Friday, Oct. 6, in the Ballroom. First 
25 couples who show up will be admitted free.
HILLEL
Coffee Hour: Monday, Oct. 9, in room 40 Skibo at 4:30 pm. 
TUESDAY ASSEMBLY
Why I Believe Flying Saucers are Real, Stan Friedman; 
Skibo Ballroom, 11:30 am, October 5.
GREATER PITTSBURGH SOCIETY 
FOB THE HISTORY OF SCIENCE
The Scientist in Jacksonian America: The Emergence of the 
Professional, Professor William Stanton, History Department, 
University of Pittsburgh; Hunt Library; 8 pm, October 3.
HUNT LIBRARY
Bookbindings from the 15th century to the present time; Rare 
Book Room, fourth floor, Hunt Library; through October 31. 
SPORTS
Football home game against Allegheny on Saturday, Oct. 7. 
Game time 1 pm.
Cross-country against Western Reserve; Schenley Park 
Course; 3:30 pm, October 4.
ETS Announces Grad Exam Dates
The National Program for 
Graduate School Selection of the 
Graduate Record Examinations 
will begin its 1967-68 testing 
program at examination centers 
throughout the United States 
and certain foreign countries on 
October 28, 1967. Five additional 
administrations which will com
plete its academic testing sched
ule in 1968 are: Dec. 9, Jan. 20, 
Feb. 24, April 27, and July 13.
The Graduate Record Ex
aminations are required or 
recommended for admission to 
many American and Canadian 
graduate schools and for grad
uate fellowship awards. Can
didates are urged to determine 
from their preferred graduate 
schools or fellowship commit
tees which of the examinations 
are required or recommended 
and when they should be 
taken.
The Graduate Record Exam
inations offered in this nation
wide program include an Apti
tude Test of general scholastic 
ability and Advanced Tests of 
achievement in 21 major fields 
of study. Candidates are permit
ted to take the Aptitude Test 
and one Advanced on any of 
the six nationwide testing dates.
A Bulletin of Information 
with legislation form providing 
details of registration and test 
administration may be obtained 
from college advisors or direct
ly from Educational Testing 
Service (Box 955, Princeton, 
New Jersey 08540, 990 Grove 
Street, Evanston, Illinois 60201, 
or 1947 Center Street, Berkeley, 
California 94704). A completed 
test registration form must 
reach the appropriate ETS of
fice before the deadline date 
listed in the Bulletin of Infor
mation.
The Eyes Have It
by Greg Carroll
IN THE HEALTH 
CENTER
WHICH EYE IS IT 
THAT HURTS?
WHAT DO YOU HAVE 
IN THE WAY OF A 
MANGE CURE?
 v
V
SOAK IT IN HOT 
WATER THIS 
EVENING.
EXPERIMENTAL FILM GROUPWednesday, October 11,
. . presents . .at 2 4-6-8-10 p.m.CHARLIE CHAPLINSKIBO BallroominCarnegie-Mellon Univ.
MODERN TIMESStudents and Faculty75<
SUNBEAM
The only sports car with 
5 year/50,000 mile warranty
Authorized CHHVBtEW
S&S JEEP
PITTSBURGH
SUNBEAMSIMCA DEALER 
V3y-V...
2y3 PENN AVE.
W'lKINSPL'G
STAMP IT!
CENi Ean Pvhn 
REGULAR 
MODEL
voY
3 HCon EnTE sZ
EeF UGnFIr Co!niEPUSECMHn DnEvH 
f1SWnE PUMMnP iEvDfK Vz" 2 2"K
Send check or money order. Be 
sure to include your Zip Code. No 
postage or handling: charges. Add 
sales tax.
frtmpr IeGpmFnrK idrGIUdcrGtn hudrdnrFFR 
THE MOPR CO.
fK .K Mtu y8623 HFntu iqudrF irdrGtn 
vEHvoEvY hvKY 3.326
TIME
The longest word 
in the language?
By letter count, the longest word may be pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis, a rare lung disease. You wont find it in Websters New World Dictionary, College Edition. But you will find more useful information about words than in any other desk dictionary.Take the word time. In addition to its derivation and an illustration showing U.S. time zones, youll find 48 clear definitions of the different meanings of time and 27 idiomatic uses, such as time of ones life. In sum, everything you want to know about time.This dictionary is approved and used by more than 1000 colleges and universities. Isnt it time you owned one? Only $5.95 for 1760 pages;
thumb-indexed.
At Your Bookstore
THE WORLD PUBLISHING CO.
Cleveland and New York
MFrwFFn SldIIFI tr dr iruRB MrFdAK-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3:y8 F1PMni vmnoUn
. . . and . . .
P1UEn 8Y o1PEa 1F nEov V:y8 fnoo vmnoUn
1rGgGndl
HOUSE
tUU
BEEF
fPCDn P1viE MnnF
Served the Way You Like It
-PIZZASERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALLDORMSI 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
ANNOUNCEMENT
from
THE WOODLAWN PHARMACY
Store will close 
for religious holiday 
on Wednesday, October 4, 1967 
at 6:00 p. m.
Store will reopen on 
Thursday, October 5, 1967 at 6:00 p.m.
Ed Garber, Owner

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 4, 1967  THE TARTAN  Page 7
: EvPEvo
 . janke, Editor
r. swoboda, Assoc. Ed.
Hubka Leads Tartans 
28-14 Over Oberlin
A strong first half offense led 
the Tartans to their first win 
of the season 28-14 at Oberlin 
last Saturday, to set their record 
thus far 1-1. Tom Hubkas pass
ing gave CMU a 21-0 lead at the 
half from which the Oberlin 
Yoemen were unable to recover 
despite a strong showing in the 
second half against the inconsistant Tartan defences.
Following the kick-off Oberlin 
drove to the Tartan 23, but on 
third down CMU halfback Ken 
Batorski intercepted a pass on 
the goal line and returned the 
ball to the 11. On second down 
Hubka connected with Larry 
, Getto who gained yardage to 
the Carnegie 45. A third down 
pass to Bugel put CMU in scor
ing position on the Oberlin 35, 
and on the following play Joe 
Chemay outran the Oberlin sec
ondary to receive a touchdown 
pass from Hubka. Dave Thomas 
extra point kick was success
ful and the Tartans were off to 
an early lead.
Oberlin was forced to punt 
on their first series of downs 
after the kick-off and CamegieMellon took over on their own 
43. Five plays later Rich Bell 
caught a Hubka pass on the 
Oberlin 10 and ran in for the 
T.D. Again the kick by Thomas 
was good.
In the second quarter Thomas 
returned an Obelin punt to the 
Yoeman 42; however a holding 
penaly on CMU moved the ball 
back to the Tartan 42. On sec
ond down Chernay ran on a re
verse around end to the Obelin 
42, and two plays later Hubka 
hit Bell with a 39 yard pass for 
another touchdown.
^ CMU came very close to scor
ing once more late in the half 
when Thomas intercepted a pass 
from Oberlin quarterback Duffey on the Oberlin 40. A series 
of short passes moved the Tar
tans to the five. On fourth 
down, with time running out, 
Tom Hubka was put under a 
heavy rush and was forced to 
throw the ball away.
Toward the end of the quarter, Yoeman halfgack Dave Wea
ver intercepted a Hubka pass 
on the Carnegie 34 and ran to
the one. On the next play, full
back Dave Corwin ran off tac
kle for the score; the attempt
ed kick was blocked, and the 
score stood at 21-6.
With a minute and half left in 
the quarter, Chemay picked off 
a Duffey pass at mid-field and 
carried to the Oberlin 24. Hubka 
completed to Bell on the four 
and on the next down Larry 
Getto carreid the ball over the 
touchdown. Thomas added the 
extra point.
Following the kickoff Ober
lin marched 68 yards in seven 
plays primarily with passes 
from Duffey to end Chris Smith, 
who ran in the final pass for 
the score. Corwin carried for the 
two point conversion.
CMUs preformance last Sat
urday can be best described as 
inconsistant. In the first half 
both offense and defense looked 
much better than they had the 
previous week at Wooster. Tom 
Hubka did an excellent job pass
ing and his receivers were us
ually able to elude the defenses. 
His line gave him good pro
tection. On defense, the Tartans 
had little trouble penetrating the 
Oberlin line with Rich Helhowski at end and Gene Giarnelli at 
guard frequently putting a lot 
of pressure on Duffey and forc
ing him to make bad passes. On 
a few occasions Gettos blitz 
set back the Yoeman quarter
back.
In the second half the story 
was different. Both the offensive 
and defensive lines were much 
weaker, perhaps because so 
many of the Tartan players 
were going both ways. The 
poorer playing by Carnegie in 
the second half was evidenced 
by its being outscored in the 
third and fourth quarter.
Oberlin end Chris Smith play
ed a fine game, catching eight 
passes for 123 yards. At the 
halfback position Dave Corwin 
and James Fabian turned in 
good performances for the Yoemen.
Next Saturday CMU plays its 
first home game of the season 
when it meets Allegheny on the 
Tech Field at 1:30.
Harriers Crushed 
By Grove City
The CMU Cross Country team 
lost its first meet 46-16 to Grove 
City last Saturday. It was the 
first time in seven years that 
Grove City has beaten the Tar
tan Harriers and the first time 
in six years that the Tartans 
have been defeated on their 
home course.
The Grove City team was 
lead by freshman Jim Warner 
with its number one man from 
last year Art Ruff, right be
hind. Warners time was 23:34 
and Ruff finished with a 23:35. 
The Wolverine runners took the 
first four places, while CMUs 
Bemie Flynn prevented a total 
Grove City victory by finishing 
fifth with a time of 25:02. Other 
Tartan Harriers who turned in 
good times but who didnt score 
points were Don Baer, 25:24; 
and John Butler, 25:45. When 
the dust (mud) had cleared, the 
Tartans had suffered their worst 
defeat in at least five years.
The Grove City team was 
considerably stronger than last 
year through the addition of 
freshmen. For example Grove 
Citys Dave McLead, their fifth 
man last, was ranked tenth this 
year. In short, Grove City sim
ply outclassed a young CMU 
squad.
Wednesday the Harriers take 
on Western Reserve at home 
and hope to get some satisfac
tion in return for the Grove 
Citv loss. The Tartans are count
ing on the return of co-captain 
Dale Peschel, who was unable 
to compete against Grove City 
because of an injured knee.
/.At. REVIEW
PACKERS LEAGUE
GSIA, in a bid to dethrone 
ATO, started the season with a 
46-3 victory over TDP J and 
then defeated the Berets 48-1. 
ATO looked equally impressive 
crushing SAE B 46-6. DU 
edged SAE B 3-1 by scaring 
all their points on first downs, 
then lost to BSR 22-19 when the 
strong pass rush of BSRs de
fense stopped a late DU come 
back attempt. The Berets, a 
freshman entry, upset BSR 15- 
10 on a clutch 4th quarter TD 
grab.
Standingas of September 30: 
Standings: W L
ATO 1 0
GSIA 2 0
DU 11
BSR 1 l
Berets 1 1
TDO J 0 2
SAE B 0 1
BROWNS LEAGUE
PKA, seeded first in the 
league, defeated DTD 7-2 on a 
fourth period TD. The EJs have 
fielded a strong team this year 
which beat ATO B 31-9 and 
PKT Bold 32-6. TDP defeated 
DTD 38-21, but lost a tough 
game to the Met Knights 9-7. 
The Met Knights also defeated 
PKT Bold 32-6. TDP defeated 
fortable margin, 20-3.
Standings: W L
PKA 1 0
EJs 2 0
TDP 1 1
Met Knights 2 0
PKT Gold 0 2
DTD 0 2
ATO B 0 1
(Continued on Page 8)
18 Wooster
28 Oberlin
Oct. 7Allegheny 
Oct. 14Grove City 
Oct. 21F&M 
Oct 28at Thiel 
Nov. 4at Westminster 
Nov. 11W&J
Cnrrdmurdl !uF !drFI
Activity Due Daote Min. Max.
Touch FootballTuesday, Sept. 19, 1967..................7 15
TennisTuesday, Sept. 19.............................................4 9
GolfTuesday, Sept. 26.................................................4 9
Co-Rec VolleyballTuesday, Oct. 10.8 men 8 women
Water BasketballTuesday, Oct. 10....................... 5 10
SoccerTuesday, Oct. 17............................................ 7 15
VolleyballTuesday, Oct. 31....................................... 6 15
SquashTuesday, Oct. 31.......................................... 3 6
Table Tennis TeamTuesday, Nov. 7..........................4 8
Water PoloTuesday, Nov. 7................................... 5 10
BowlingTuesday, Nov. 7.......................................... 5 10
Three-Man VolleyballTuesday, Dec. 5......................3 8
BasketballTuesday, Jan. 9, 1968 ........................... 6 13
WrestlingTuesday, Feb. 6..................................... Open
HandballTuesday, Feb. 6........................................ 4 9
BridgeTuesday, Feb. 13.............................................4 9
TaEle Tennis SinglesTuesday, Feb. 13.................... 1
and Doubles ............................................................ 2
Foul ShootingTuesday, Feb. 13............................. 5 10
Co-Rec BadmintonTuesday, Feb. 20.......................3 6
Call PoolTuesday, Feb. 20..................................... 3 6
Co-Rec BadmintonTuesday, Feb. 20 .................................2
SwimmingTuesday, Feb. 27................................... Open
RifleTuesday, March 5............................................ 5 10
SoftballTuesday, March 12.......................................10 21
Intramural NightFriday, March 15
Team BadmintonTuesday, March 19......................4 8
TrackTuesday, April 30......................................... Open
Any group may enter a team by filling out the official roster 
sheet and returning it to the Intramural office on or before the 
due date listed above. AM entries must be accompanied by a $2.50 
forfeit fee which will be returned at the end of the sports sched
ule providing the team appeared and was ready for the activity as 
scheduled. All needed equipment will be provided by the Intramur
al Department including rules and regulations governing the activ
ity. Teams may be formed by organizations, classes, floors, com
muter groups, etc.
Copies of the Camegie-Mellon Intramural Department Constitu
tion may be obtained in Room No. 104 in the Gymnasium.
Anyone wishing to officiate Touch Football, Volleyball, Basket
ball, Soccer, or Softball should contact Mr. Boyer, Intramural di
rector, Gym No. 104.
For further information, contact Mr. Boyer, Intramural direc
tor, or Steve Dudash, president of Intramural Board, Mens Gym 
No. 104, Ext. 412.
Additional copies of this schedule may be obtained in the In
tramural office.
V
fts
er
In-depth coverage of 
automotive activities. 
Featuring a different 
college every month.
IN THE 
OCTOBER ISSUE
DO COLLEGES 
DESIGN BETTER 
CARS?
vn tn-reF-Iptr PFptrr Urtm DKCKEK 
* * *
1SE1MnP CiiUn 1o 
ivHn o1w! vr nFwIIrdnRI 
FvFrBweFrF
AND EVERY MONTH
Sports Car Graphic keeps you up 
to date on everything in the sports 
car world! ALWAYS FIRST with race 
and rally reports...full color fea
tures...driver profiles...engine 
modification specifications and per
formance how-tos...new car road 
tests...track and street handling 
tips...competition calendars!
SPORTS CAR GRAPHIC IS ALWAYS FIRST!
21
14
INSURANCE - MOTORCYCLE AND SCOOTER
LOW RATES FOR ALL AGES
Trottnow Insurance Agency
281-6619 - Phones - 281-9000
'h Artis
International
fa Artistic Hairstyling Expert
Razor Sculpture Cutting
207 Oakland Ave. & And Plain Cut 
Below Forbee Ave. By Appointment 682-373$

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Wednesday, October 4, 1967
EARLY FALL SALE
$y:K:5 MrdnR ndmF AnGr 2 pGFcF 
iUCEiK MtbbGF MrttAIKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK2:"
$y6K:: MrdnR-ndmF wttl tr 
AnGr iUSWiKKKKKKKKKKKKKK $5K99J7.99
$y2K:: HdmbI wttl tr trltn 
mtedGr cdrRGgdnI tr IlGp-tvFr 
tr eFdvB bulAB AnGr
iwnvEnPiKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK$5 ::_$7K::
$5K:: Strrtn d AnGr IeFllIK
Wntwn brdnRIK EurrlF nFcA
dnR JFwFl MH1UiniKKKKKK$2 _^2 ^
$8.99 Bobbie Brooks MJEANS ..................................*3 99
100% dll wttl IlFFvFlFII vFIr 
iwFvEnPiK MtbbGF MrttAIKKKKKKK 22yg"
$5:K:: hFnuGnF IuFRF
JvSWnEiK itmF lGnFRKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK235"
$35.00 Brand Name $1099RAINCOATS .......
$y:K:: SdIudl dnR !rFIIB 
!PniiniK vrpFlGd-hFtrgGd 
hrGUUGreIKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK
LUSTIGS CASUALS
JUNIOR - MISS - LADIES APPAREL
c6y: SFnrrF vvFKY nFdr SrdGg irK 
svcrtII Urtm hGdnr ndglFL
TARTAN GALLERY
I.M. REVIEW
(Continued from Page 7)
COLT LEAGUE
SAE displayed a strong run
ning game and tough pass de
fense in victories over SN B 
42-13 and the Trojans 31-1. KS 
ruined the Trojans hopes for 
an upset by scoring 16 points in 
the fourth quarter in a 25-8 
win. The Old Men decisively defeated KS andbeat TX49-6.
Standings:WL
BTP00
SAE20
Old Men20
KS11
Trojans02
TX01
SN B01
COWBOYS LEAGUE
The Grad Nads had little 
trouble defeating PKT Purple 
29-2 and DU J 56-1. The 
Bruins scored 15 points in the 
fourth quarter but were defeat
ed by 26-23. SN beat BTP B 
33-12 and BTP B folowed by 
pirring a 40-9 loss on PKT Pur
ple.
Standings:WL
Bandits00
Grad Nads20
SN20
BTP B11
PKT Purple02
Bruins01
DU J0I
Last Years I.M. Standings 
BTP 63 Vi Civil Hammers 6
EnPD fvfnPi EYfn! 35 v ieFFr
?
Phone 361-2175
1965 RED VESPA 
90cc.
Good Condition 
Call 681-2242
K & E
DEC I-LON SLIDE RULE
1 year old. 
Reasonable Price. 
Call 681-2242.
iUMiSPCfEC1o 
a1Dn!!
Maintain the Status-Quo 
Keep Your Parents Informed
FUHH YnvPNi 
iUMiSPCfEC1o 
Ftr 1nlB $3K..
Send Coupon to: TARTAN, Box 17, Campus Mail
iFnR v
Enclosed is *3.00 for a One Year Subscription
to THE TARTAN.
Parent's Name.
Address.
State..Zip Code.
Your Name.
EJ 60 Vi Faculty2SN 23DTDl
PKA 28 Bandits2GRAD NADS 22 '/z Algorithms 1
ATO 27 Vi Architects2TDP 12KS0
GSIA 26 Vx Met. Knights2DU 10TX0
SAE 25 Chem. E. Math.2BSB 10PKT0
Campus Address.
