CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 56  NUMBER 6 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1963
Kiltie Concert Band Presents 
Season9 sOpeningConcertT oday 
Featuring Pianist Burge
The opening concert in Carnegie Techs 1963-1964 Car
negie Concert Series, a recital by David Burge, pianist and 
composer, will be presented on Wednesday, October 23, at 
8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. The concert is open 
to the public and tickets are not required.
The program will include: Vari-' 
ations on Mein junges Leben hat 
. ein End by Jan Pieterzon Swee* linck; Sixth Piano Sonata by
Ernst Krenek; Five Pieces for
Piano by George Crumb; Pre
miere Sonate pour piano by
Pierre Boulez; Dos Sonatas de
El Escorial by Rudolfo Halffter;
(continued on page 6)
Who W ill Be 
 Festival King?
On October 16, the lovely FallFestival Queen candidates toured 
the fraternities and dormitories. 
Not to be outdone, seven lovely 
Fall-Festival King candidates 
presented themselves to the fair 
women of More wood on the fol
lowing eve. Although dressed 
quite impeccably from the waist 
s up, they neglected to cmoply with 
the Golden Rule of Morewood, 
which prohibits naked feet in 
the lobby. Expelled, but undaunt
ed, these characters then pro
ceeded to serenade the residents. 
Numerous original chords were 
the outstanding features of this 
concert. The seven brave (fool
hardy?) candidates introduced 
themselves as Paul, Andy, Tom, 
Gary, John, Bill and Dan, and due 
^ to popular request, repeatedly 
gave their rendition of Melan
choly Baby. They kept insisting 
that voting for the King would 
take place in Morewood on Thurs
day, Oct. 24. The candidates re
ceived their warmest applausee as 
they departed.
GSIA Initiates 
Colloquia
With the goal of healing the 
ever-widening rift among the var
ious specializations and profes
sions, Carnegie Tech is initiat
ing a series of colloquia in the 
Arts and Sciences. A number of 
panelists from differing back
grounds will meet in public con
versations to discuss their views 
on some of the most fundamental 
questions and problems of our 
culture.
The first colloquium will meet 
on Wednesday, October 30, at 7:30 
p.m. in G.S.I.A. Auditorium. The 
subject will be: What the Arts Say 
and What the Sciences Say. Con
versation will center on the issue 
of the essential structure and ali
enation of the Sciences and the 
Humanistic Arts.
Representing diverse disciplines 
and viewpoints will be Prof. 
Herbert Simon of G.S.I.A., An
drew Mellon Prof, David Lewis 
of Architecture, Prof. James Rosenburg of Drama, asd Prof. 
Sergio Benedetti of Physics. The 
moderator will be Prof. Martin 
Engel. These colloquia are open 
to students, faculty and friends 
of Carnegie Tech. '
Christian Science Group 
* Sponsors Lecture Next Monday
A one-hour lecture exploring 
religion as an ultimate science 
will be given on Monday by 
Keith A. Plimmer of the Christian 
Science Board of Lectureship.
The lecture begins at 4:45 in 
Scaife Hall Auditorium. It is be
ing sponsored by the Christian 
Science Organization here at Car% negie Tech.
Mr. Plimmer was formerly a 
schoolmaster in New Zealand and 
his native Australia, and a joint 
headmaster in England. He left 
the teaching profession some years 
ago to devote his full time to the 
practice of Christian Science. He 
served as an Officiating Minister 
to the Allied Forces in Italy dur
ing World War II, and has also 
represented Christian Science in
S radio and television appearances 
over the British Broadcasting 
Company network.
The Christian Science Organigation is made up of Tech stu
dents who are members of the 
church, and also those who are 
just interested. The organization 
holds weekly meetings every 
Tuesday afternoon in the Skibo 
chapel, in addition to yearly lec
tures. All are welcome to attend 
? the lecture and the meetings.
GEITH A. PLIMMER
STUDENT CONGRESS 
MEETING TODAY 
AT 4:30
Queen Receives Crown 
After Torch Light Pep
"Is this one on 7-E too?"
Sherri Rossman Bonnie Moyer
Nine Fraternities Prepare 
Fall Festival Displays
Fraternity men are busy hammering, sawing, and paint
ing this week as they prepare Fall Festival displays. Nine of 
the twelve fraternities on campus have entered the display 
competition, and the general theme of their exhibits is TechTime: 2000. _ ?---------------------------------------------------
Each group hopes to win favor 
of the judges and be awarded the 
competition trophy which will be 
presented at the dance Saturday 
night.
Alpha Tau Omega - plans a 
Stellar Performance which is 
turned by the Tech team of the 
twenty-first century.
Beta Sigma Rho builds The 
Sigs of Victory. Their display 
this year consists of a rotating 
bill board which presents three 
pictures that will describe some 
aspect of Carnegie Tech in the 
year 2000.
Beta Theta Pi gazes into its 
crystal ball and finds Tartan 
headlines, year 2000  Tartans 
Throw Mooners In Crater Bowl. 
By logical deduction, they tell the 
campus the story of Techs first 
interplanetary Bowl victory over 
a formidable Mooners Eleven.
Delta Tau Delta says that con
trol of the weather is a probable 
accomplishment by the year 2000. 
The Delts depict one^ aspect of 
this control enabling  the Tartans 
to run rampant over F. and M.
Delta Upsilons Tartan of the 
future tells" the story of how, way 
back in 63, Jake Warners wiz
ardry subdued the invading Dip
lomats of Franklin and Marshall 
and saved the day for Tech.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon predicts 
that tactful Tartans of the future 
will derail the on-rushing F. and 
M. monorail and send the visotors 
to a disasterous defeat.
Sigma Nu presents Tech Time: 
2000 Confusion. Carnegie Tech, 
represented as a Machinery Hall 
type castle, sits upon a very struc(continued on page 2)
Jane Dick
?
Tech students who join the 
torch light parade this Friday 
night will be the first to know 
who is Fall Festival queen. She 
will be presented at a ceremony at 
the football field immediately 
| after the parade. This years three 
final candidates for the queenship 
are freshmen Jane Dick, Bonnie 
Moyer, and Sheri Rossman.
The parade begins at 7 p.m. 
leaving from Morewood Gardens. 
Torches will light the way to the 
football field where the ceremony 
and a pep rally will follow. Fra
ternity pledge cheers will be 
judged and Coach Gasparella and 
several players will speak. The 
program finishes in time for stu
dents to get to the 9 p.m. Hoote
nanny.
Fall Festival Schedule
FRIDAY
12:20Classes Dismissed
1:00IM All-Star Game
3:00-5:00Jam Session and Pankel Skit in
Skibo Ballroom
7:00Torch Light Parade to football field
and Bondfire
9:00-11:00Hootenanny in Tech Gym
SATURDAY
1:30Tech-Frankiin and Marshall varsity
Football game
9:00-12:00Dance in Skibo Ballroom
11:00Calls and trophy winners announced
3:00 a.m.Morewood Curfew
Friday
Parade
* Photo by Joe OConner

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 23, 1963
Pgh. Chamber Music 
Op ens Third Season
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will open its 
third season at Carnegie Music Hall, Monday, October 28, 
with a performance by the Netherlands String Quartet. 
Future concerts will feature the Quartetto Italiano, the Albeneri Trio, the Budapest Quartet and the New York String 
Sextet. ? 7
The Chamber Music Society is that year at the Concertgebouw, 
sponsored by Carnegie Institute,
The University of Pittsburgh,
Carnegie Institute of Technology,
Chatham College, and Duquesne 
University.
The Netherlands String Quartet 
whose members include Nap de 
Klijn, Jaap Schroeder, Paul God
win and Carel Boomkamp  was 
formed by Nap de Klijn in 1952 
and made its debut in January of
BULLETINBOARD
Amsterdam.
Y Presentation
The fourth in the series of pres
entations on various religious 
points of view found in the 
American Culture, A Theological 
Sampler, will present the Eastern
F raternities 
Predict. . .
Critics have called the Quartet Orthodox position today, Wednesone of the best of internationalj day, October 23 at 4:30 in Room 
repute. The Quartet has just been 56. Father Frank Mesaros of the 
awarded the Elizabeth Sprague i Carpatho-Russian Eastern OrthoCoolidge Medal as the best string 1 of McKeesport will
quartet in Europe. They have
made regular appearances in-Hol
land, Switzerland, England and 
Germany, and a lengthy tour of 
South Africa, and are now on their 
fifth U.S. tour.
Tickets for the 1963-1964 season 
are available from the Pittsburgh 
Chamber Music Society, 901 
Cathedral of Learning or phone 
(continued from page 1) 621-3500. Extension 566. The cost
, x niT v, of student tickets is $1.25 forturaly sound town. CIT, by means . .- . single tickets and $2.50 for series
of alumni painters, spreads its : tickets. Individual tickets may be
influence to the world, represented ; purchased at the box office before
by panels depicting Love, War, concert.
Population, and Education, year "
2000. F. and M., a part of the
confused world, is being crushed
by a steel football controlled by
Tech. "
Tau Delta Phi forecasts in the
year 2000 that Pitt will engulf
Tech. A new Pitt dorm stops an
F. and M. drive on the Tech 35
yard line.
Theta Xi will portray a printing
press of the future rolling off
pages of the Carnegie Tartan.
The headlines will show the
events of the year 2000 on the
Carnegie Tech campus.
be the speaker. Father Mesaros 
is Chaplain to Eastern Orthodox 
students at Carnegie Tech. The 
following week, which will be the 
last in this series, Rev. Richard 
Cromies of Shadyside Presbyter
ian Church will present the Cal
vinist - Reformed tradition. All 
members of the Tech community 
are welcome.
Senior Portraits
SeniorsIf you are not affili
ated with a fraternity or sorority 
and want your picture in this 
years yearbook, sign up for Sen
ior Portraits in D o n n e r Hall,
Morewood Gardens, or Room 45 
Skibo. The charge is $2.00 and 
must be taken by Nov. 6.
Porter Gallery
The latest exhibition in the Por
ter Garnett Graphic Arts Gallery 
in AH concerns Assignment Photo
graphy. This is an original ex
hibition of the work of Jack Merhaut, Charles Nelson, and Jean 
Rapp. The showing is free, open 
to the public, and runs from Oc
tober 21 to November 1.
S'nS
Scotch n Soda is now accept
ing students to fill technical jobs
that are cpen. We need a choreog
rapher, stage mamager, assistant 
stage manager, lighting director, 
technical director, props and Cos
tume directors, and running crew. 
These jobs are open to anyone 
on campus. If you are at all in
terested, drop a line about your
self and the job to Scotch n Soda, 
Box 258, care of campus mail.
---------------------------------- ^
Eta Kappa Nu
The purpose of Eta Kappa Nu, 
the national electrical engineer
ing honor society, is to bring into 
closer union those in, the profes
sion of Electrical Engineering 
who have manifested a deep in
terest and marked ability in their 
chosen life work.
This fall Sigma Chapter of Eta 
Kappa Nu has elected fourteen 
men to membership:
Seniors: C h a r 1 e s_ Anderson, ' 
James Brown, Wils Cooley, Gary 
Hess, Norman McEachron, Terry 
Mercer, Thomas Pyke, Ronald 
Zdrojkowski.
aim3
**
>
*
s09
X*FSDjL.
H
GO>00fm
CDC-D
mz
H
 MB30
1 ^* 5;5 ^ 5
mmmmm>
1
_ 8
1* on
Co X
 
m of mm
CAR NEGISTUO FHHS
SQ.HiLL
Special Student Faculty ' 
Discount Coupon
This ad when presented at the 
Box Office and 90c will admit 
one student or Faculty member.I
AN OPPORTUNITY TO GROW 
IN THE HIGHEST PROFESSIONAL 
WORKING ENVIRONMENT
LYL_his_aY LdwsdLLiN 
enpNs_sNhN 
rahnLrahs_sadN
Technical representatives 
of the MITRE Corporation 
will be conducting interviews 
on campus 
October 29, 1963
MITRE designs and develops systems that enable our mili
tary commanders to detect attack and retaliate instantly. 
Typical systems include Nuclear Detonation Detection and 
Reporting System, North American Air Defense Combat 
Operations Center, and Back-Up Interceptor Center. 
MITRE is also experimenting with techniques for future air 
traffic control systems.
For the young systems engineer there is no more rewarding 
work. You associate with the top men in your field. You 
work in an atmosphere that allows you to extend your 
capabilities professionally and academically.
At MITRE, men trained in single disciplines are encour
aged to grow beyond their original fields of interest. Systems 
designers learn to work from an increasingly broad base.
You may work in such diverse areas as information 
theory, computer design, displ&y techniques, propagation, 
or human engineering. You may analyze. You may syn
thesize. You may deal with systems or individual compo
nents. At the highest levels, you may have to consider 
political, economic and social factors ... as well as the 
available and predictable technology.
Requirements, B.S., M.S., or Ph.D. in these disciplines  
electronics, physics, and mathematics. MITRE is located in 
pleasant, suburban Boston and also has facilities in 
Washington, D. C. and Colorado Springs. If an interview 
will be inconvenient, inquiries may be directed in confidence 
to Vice President  Technical Operations, The MITRE 
Corporation, Box 208, Dept. CN7 Bedford, Mass.
ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
THEMITRE
CORPORATION
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Pioneer in the design and development of command and 
control systems, MITRE was chartered in 1958 to serve 
only the United States Government. The independent non
profit firm is technical advisor and system engineer for the 
Air Force Electronic Systems Division and also serves the 
Federal Aviation Agency and the Department of Defense.
il-G-M P'cuntiMARGARET ROBERTRUTHERFORD MORLEY
Wh AGATHA CHRISTIE'S
FORVMM
FLORAROBSON
4th WEEK
^nU 
The Boulting Brothers present their Hew comedy Heavens 
Above! starring Peter tellers, Cecil Parker and Isabel Jeans.
The Shadyside
5518 Walnut St
682-1901
0
X>
0)
THE
pHOlISE
Make It A Date
Enjoy the Rollicking Campus Comedy
 of --
Take Her. She's Mine
STERLING
YATES
with
DORIS
HACKNEY
LYNN
GEORGE
Tuesday thru Saturday at 8:30 
Sunday at 7:30
Tickets Available at Pitt Bookstore and Student Desk 
Sunday  Friday $1.50 Saturday $2.00
I)'
c

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 23, 1%3  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e *
Wishing Committees Plan 
Meetings For October
Three of Carnegie Institute of Technologys Visiting 
Committees will hold meetings during October.
The Visiting Committee for the department of electrical 
engineering will hold its meeting on the campus, Friday, 
October 11.
On Friday, October 18, the^
^jfisiting Committee for the Mar"garet Morrison Carnegie College 
will hold its meeting on the cam
pus. Co-chairmen of the commit
tee are Alfred S. Andrews, presi
dent, Andrews, Bartlett and As
sociates, Inc., Cleveland; and Wal
ter J. Blenko, Sr., attorney, Blenko, Hoopes, Leonard and Buell, 
Pittsburgh.
The Visiting Committee for the 
department of graphic arts will 
^.old its meeting on the campus, 
Friday, October 25. Chairman of 
the committee is Walter J. Blen
ko, Sr., attorney, Blenko, Hoopes, 
Leonard and Buell, Pittsburgh.
Established in September, 1961, 
the Visiting Committee program 
has two major aims: to bring na
tional figures in close relation
ship with the activities of all de
partments and divisions of Car
negie Tech; and to secure the aid 
ilf these committees and their 
counsel and fresh viewpoints in 
achieving the objectives of Car
negie.
Mr. Andrews and Mr. Blenko 
are members of Carnegies board 
of trustees.
Tech Clarifies New Liquor Law, 
Offers Word To The Wise
Dean Brown, speaking to the Council of Fraternity Presi-* 
dents, sorority presidents, and representatives of student govment a week ago Monday, clarified Carnegie Techs position 
on the serving of alcoholic beverages. There had been much 
speculation around campus as to what the school would do
Sigma Nil Names 
Martin Ackerman 
Scholar of Year
Martin N. Ackermann, chem
istry graduate of the class of 
1963, has been named Sigma Nu 
Scholar of the Year, one of the 
fraternitys highest national hon
ors. The announcement was made 
at Sigma Nus college of chap
ters at Lexington, Virginia, this 
summer.
Marty held many offices and 
honors during his four years at 
Tech. A Sloan Scholar, he grad
uated first in his class. Last year 
he was editor-in-chief of the Tar
tan. He was also a member of 
Tau Beta Pi, ODK, and many 
other organizations.
Art Museum Displays 
Maiirice Utrillo Paintings
The largest exhibition of paintings by Maurice Utrillo 
ever presented in the United States has been announced by 
Gustave von Groschwitz, Director of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. The exhibition 
will open at the Museum of Art on Founder-Patrons Day, 
Thursday, October 17, 1963 and
j arent going to drink. The reaj son is that, under Pennsylvania 
law, any establishment where a 
 minor is drinking can be de
in light of the new state liquor law. Basically, according to  dared a disorderly house by the
Dean Brown, CITs stand will re-^ 1--------------------------------------
main unchanged. Its policy is as j verbial word to the wise. If you 
follows:
Tech does not approve of or 
encourage drinking by students. 
Recognizing, however, that the 
consumption of alcoholic bever
ages is an accepted social custom 
in our society, the school will 
continue to permit the serving of 
alcohol at chaperoned parties. 
Students are reminded, though, 
that it is illegal for anyone un
der 21 years of age to drink, and 
the officers of any organization 
having a party are responsible 
for seeing that the law is com
plied with. Also, the president of 
the organization and the person 
serving the alcoholic beverage 
must both be over 21 years of age.
Dean Brown also issued a pro
will extend through the first of 
December.
One - hundred - and - thirteen 
paintings have been obtained from
EastmanKodak
Grants Aid
<rcii
Tech has received an unre
stricted direct grant of $7,800 
from Eastman Kodak under the 
companys aid-to-education pro
gram for 1963.
Carnegie Tech is one of 53 pri
vately supported colleges and uni
versities to receive direct grants
from the company this year. They 
ire based on the number of grad
uates from these institutions who 
joined Kodak five years ago and 
are presently employed by the 
company .
Kodak has contributed $30,800 
in direct grants to Carnegie Tech 
since 1955. This years grant is 
based on Lee J. Fleckenstein 
(52), Stephen J. Grangos (57), 
and Clarence A. Schmidt (57) 
^vho are employed at the com
panys Kodak Part Works in 
Rochester, New York.
The companys aid-to-education 
program for 1963 calls for direct 
grants, research grants, special 
grarts, and a number of other 
contributions totaling about $1.2 
million.
private collections, museums, and 
are dealers in Canada, Switzer
land, England, France, and 
throughout the United States. 
Dominating the exhibition will be 
a major assemblage of the socaled White Period Utrillos, which 
were completed prior to World 
War I. The exhibit ranges in 
time from 1905 through 1949.
Accompanying the exhibition 
will be a fully illustrated cata
logue. The exhibition will be open 
weekdays from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m. except on Tuesdays and 
Thursdyas when the hours will 
be extended until 9:00 p.m. On 
Sundays the galleries will open 
from 2:00 until 5:00 p.m.
READY
for a Volkswagen? The re
quirements are simple enough 
for any intelligent motorist who 
puts the emphasis on efficient 
operation, low gas consump
tion, low price when new, and 
high resale value. A VW is re
liable in all kinds of weather; 
it brings fun back to driving 
and ease to parking. Are YOU 
ready for your Volkswagen? 
Go to M. W. Motors  Pitts
burghs leading Factory Au
thorized Volkswagen Dealer.
'57 Volkswagen 
$795
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671HU. 6-1810
Inti Club Holds 
9Annual Reception
The International Club an
nounced that the Pittsburgh Coun
cil for International Visitors is 
holding its annual reception for 
International students and faculty 
in Skibo Ballroom on October 27, 
1963 at 4:00 p.m. The Council is 
one of Pittsburghs major organi
zations for strengthening under
standing between the U.S. commu
nity and its foreign visitors.
^ The informal gathering will 
have music and dancing. The ac
tivities of the PCIV will also be 
outlined. All members of the In
ternational Club will be invited 
directly. The Club appreciates 
deeply the efforts and services of 
the PCIV, and hopes that com
bined work in the future will 
secure more steps towards the ful
fillment of our mutual goals.
for the 
sporting 
impression 
CRICKETEER
Leave it to Cricketeer, 
expert in the youthful look, 
to sense the sporting 
instinct in every man ... 
to design a sportcoat 
collection with the built-in 
ability to stimulate your 
business life ... to dress up 
your sporting life. Tailored 
on flattering lines in the 
finest of smooth or textured 
fabrics. Cricketeer 
sportcoats make a 
well-behaved, sporting 
impression anywhere.
tCVWPP MG t.BWBV
(Enarit House
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings until 9:00
are even over 21 and want to eat 
supper in a bar, be sure to choose 
one where you are certain no mi
nors will be served alcoholic 
beverages, even if you yourself
police. Any other person whether 
drinking or not, can be arrested 
simply for being in the disorder
ly house. Thus, you can be take 
down to the station because some
one else is drinking, even if you 
dont know about it.
On Campos
(Author of "Rally Hound the Flag, Boys' 
and "Barefoot Boy With Cheek".)
withMaxShuIman
HOW SMALL CAN YOU GET?
Today let us address ourselves to a question that has long rocked 
and roiled the academic world: Is a student better off at a small 
college than at a large college?
To answer this question it is necessary first to define terms. 
What, exactly, do we mean by a small college? Well sir, some 
say that in order to be called truly small, a college should have 
an enrollment of not more than four students.
I surely have no quarrel with this statement; a four-student 
college must unequivocally be called small. Indeed, I would 
even call it intime if I knew what intime meant. But I submit 
there is such a thing as being too small. Take, for instance, a 
recent unfortunate event at Crimscott A and M.
Crimscott A and M, situated in a pleasant valley nestled 
between Philadelphia and Salt Lake City, was founded by
do wmM ty/d adleM?
A. and M. Crimscott, two brothers who left Ireland in 1625 
to escape the potato famine of 1841. As a result of their fore
sight, the Crimscott brothers never went without potatoes for 
one single day of their livesand mighty grateful they were! 
One night, full of gratitude after a wholesome meal of French 
fries, cottage fries, hash browns, and au gratin, they decided 
to show their appreciation to this bountiful land of potatoes 
by endowing a college. But their generosity contained one 
stipulation: the enrollment of the college must never exceed 
four students. They felt that only by keeping the school this 
small could each student be assured of the personalized atten
tion, the camaraderie, the esprit, that is all too often lacking in 
larger institutions of higher learning.
Well sir, things went along swimmingly until one Saturday 
a few years ago. On this day Crimscott had a football game 
scheduled against Minnesota, its traditional rival. Football, 
as you can well imagine, was something of a problem at Crim
scott, what with only four undergraduates in the entire college.
It was easy enough to muster a baekfield, but to find a good 
lineor even a bad linebaffled some of the most resourceful 
coaching minds in the nation.
Well sir, on the morning of the big game against Minnesota, 
its traditional rival, a capricious fate dealt Crimscott a cruel 
blowin fact, four cruel blows. Sigafoos, the quarterback, 
woke up that morning with an impacted incisor. Wrichards, 
the slotback, flunked his taxidermy exam and was declared in
eligible. Beerbohm-Tree, the wingbaek-tailback, got his neck
tie caught in his espresso machine. Yuld, the fullback, was 
stolen by gypsies.
Consequently, none of the Crimscott team showed up at the 
football game, and Minnesota, its traditional rival, was able to 
score almost at will. Crimscott was so cross after this humiliating 
defeat that they immediately broke off football relations with 
Minnesota, its tradtional rival. This later became known as 
the Sacco-Vanzetti Case.
So you can see how only four students might be too meagre 
an enrollment. The number that I personally favor is twenty. 
Why? you ask. Because, I reply, when you have twenty 
students and one of them opens a pack of Marlboro Cigarettes, 
there are enough to go around for everybody, and no one has 
to be deprived of Marlboros flavor, of Marlboros filter, of 
Mariboros staunch and steadfast companionship, and as a 
result you have a student body that is brimming with sweet 
content and amity and harmony and concord and togetherness 
and soft pack and Flip-Top box.
Thats why. * The hee
There are twenty Une cigarettes in every pack of Marlborot, 
and there are millions of packs of Marlboros in every one of 
the fifty states of the Union. We, the makers of Marlboro and 
the sponsors of this column, hope you will try our wares soon.

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 23, 1963
Speciaelt
To Catch A Thief
Over $1,200 in equipment has been stolen 
from the Thistle office. The loss will be a 
great set back to our yearbook staff who have 
been striving to keep within their budget. 
To make matters worse, the staff believe that 
a Carnegie Tech student broke into their 
office.
There has always been a large element of 
trust between fellow students on the Car
negie campus, and we hope that this incident 
will not subvert this feeling. In the dormitor
ies, many doors are left open while the oc
cupants are in some other room. In the fra
ternities, members leave their money and 
valuables on their dressers, knowing that no 
one will bother them. The basis of the fraterReoders Write
nity and dormitory living systems is that you 
are able to trust your roommate. But how 
does one trust a fellow student who has care
fully planned to steal a set of cameras from 
the student body?
Of course, we are not sure that it was a 
student who committed the crime. However, 
if it were, we hope that anyone who knows 
or suspects the robber, will not keep quiet 
about it to avoid embarrassment.
At least the school should now seriously 
consider changing the locks on a few of the 
doors in Skibo. Too many master keys are 
floating around, making it easy for many 
unauthorized students to enter the activities 
rooms. M.L.S.
Axelrad, Festival Plans Discussed
Where's Tech 
Cooperation ?
Editor, the Tartan:
Fall-Festival is supposedly an 
All-School event. Yet when the 
Chairman of Fall-Festival asked 
ior help for the weekend from 
all the students through their 
representatives in Mens Dorm 
Council, Panhellenic Coun
cil, Womens Dorm Council, and 
the Council of Fraternity Presi
dents, one half of them turned 
him down.
The Chairman needed the help 
when it turned out that there 
was a definite dead space in 
the Friday afternoon, Oct. 25, 
schedule. His solution for this 
was to have an informal jam 
session from 3 to 5 p.m. Funds 
to support this had not been 
allocated by Student Govern
ment, however, so he went to 
these four organizations and 
asked them to each pay V\ of the 
estimated total cost cost $200- 
400.
The groups were approached 
as soon as it became certain 
that a problem existed. Panhel 
OKd it Monday afternoon, CFP 
added its support Monday night. 
But on Tuesday afternoon Mens 
Dormitory Council turned a cold 
shoulder to the deal. Womens 
Dorm Council had also declined 
to participate, but this is rather 
understandable as they have a 
yearly operating budget of less 
than $500.
Mens Dorm Councils action 
cannot, however, to the best of 
my knowledge, be defended in 
any way. They certainly do not 
lack funds as several members 
have admitted. Their cut of the 
dorm fee (better than $5,000)
ow-Rt n.
has in the past supported a very 
generous social calendar. Two 
other reasons have been hinted 
at by members. One, that this 
was too much money to pay for 
the dozen-man group the Chair
man had in mind is surprising 
because, from all reports, none 
of the Council was particularly 
qualified to know the going 
prices for such misical groups, 
hired on short notice.
it would have passed easily.
I can not see any way in 
which these men, newly elected 
presidents of the dormitory sec
tions, could hope that such lack 
of cooperation would be any 
benefit to the student body or 
the dormitory residents. This is 
the first year for a while in 
which the majority of the Coun
cil have not been affiliated with 
any social fraternities. I hope 
this action is not a sign of what 
this situation is going to pro
duce.
Bob Hawkins
SR. I.M.
Far more disturbing was the 
rumor the the underlying reason 
(not brought into their discus
sion) was that they did not want
to go along with anything the _______________
fraternities were doing. In other ( i j 
words, if the order of the meetXelrail 
ings had been different, and
Dorm Council approached first. otOpS ShOTt
cT$y (\ cfijler'Burt
Dean Breed was appointed to get Tech women, both 
faculty wives and members, together in order to achieve 
the following purpose. 1.) To consider the social welfare of 
students who are often strangers to the city. 2.) To visit 
sick students. (One can imagine what a band of women 
would look like trooping into a dormitory.) 3.) To further 
acquaintanceship and good fellowship between the several 
faculties. (They could not have picked anyone who could 
be better at this.) 4.) To assist in student social activities. 
(Lord knows what that meant.) There was an enigmatic 
notice appearing in the Tartan which said: The following 
men will please remain after the general lecture next Wed
nesday, October 29th for a meeting. T. A. Engstrom, R. L. 
Fulmer, R. L. Kirk, R. Urquhart, and C. B. Kline. Some 
transactions of interest and importance are scheduled for 
the attention of these students. Perhaps they had an am
bush prepared. The Tech varsity had its troubles then as 
now for they lost to Geneva 28-0. Lastly there was at the 
Duquesne theater the play ZaZa which is,  . . . the story 
of a music hall actress who rises from a depth of illicit love 
to a height of pure self-abnegation. An object lesson, no 
doubt, or certain members of the Tech student body.
Editor, the Tartan:
Im afraid Mr. Axlerad has 
some mistaken notions about de
mocracyhe fails to mention an 
obvious difference between ideal 
and applied democracies while 
writing about one and meaning 
the other.
In our accepted concept of 
applied democracy, from the 
grass roots all the long way to 
Washington (and it is a long 
way), we picture the rule of 
the minority by the majority. 
Granted. But sometimes this is 
true and sometimes it is not 
just look at various public agen
cies which dictate the good of 
the people, majority or minority. 
At least it seems better to us 
than Communism, and would be 
accepted by more people than 
have already gone into Berlin 
from East to West if those ruled 
by Communism had their say.
But there Mr. Axelrad stops! 
The uncovered question seems to 
be: Which system is better, Ideal 
Communism or Ideal Democ
racy? The only apparent answer 
lies in the organization of each. 
Communism is a philosophy and 
the world has yet to see an ideal 
. (continued from page 6)
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Right To Know
The United States is a free country; therefore we 
know that the news we read is truthful. Ideally this would 
be correct, but in fact the news we receive may be grossly 
distorted. The average American is taught that Communist 
news sources contain such a small element of truth that they 
should be disregarded. Perhaps this is true. The Russian 
articles and magazines that this writer has seen seem to be 
distorted and untruthful in many areas. However, this is 
only intuitive judgment  there is no evidence. Knowledge 
can be gained by listening to all sources.
To some degree, news is distorted in the U.S. by simply 
not reporting or headlining incidents that would usually be 
featured. For instance, the newspapers in Birmingham claim 
they performed a public service by putting stories of the 
racial strife there on inside pages. This may have resulted in 
diminished tension, but the papers chose not to publicize 
what was the obvious lead story; this naturally led to other 
less important stories being overemphasized. If a search is 
made, similar examples can be found. (How important is 
an automobile accident?) All in all, it may be that the 
public is getting most of the truth, but a person should not 
delude himself into thinking that all news is true news. *'
On another track, individuals are forbidden access to 
certain areas: for example, if writing is termed porno
graphy, it can legally be surpressed. Society has made the 
judgment that pornography is bad, and since it is bad, 
has made publishing or selling it illegal. But if society can 
correctly surpress writings in any area, then it can claim 
the authority to surpress any writings that it things bad.
If any nation is to claim that it allows free speech, then it 
must not restrict the area of freedom. This freedom would 
include the right to shout fire in a crowded theatre (to f j 
use the common illustration). Such freedom would of course 
have drawbacks, but it is felt that allowing complete free
dom of speech is less dangerous and more beneficial to 
individuals than giving anyone (society) the authority to 
restrict the interplay of ideas (or to define idea.)
If direct harm could be proven after a statement is 
made, then the person making the statement could be pun
ished. Thus libel could be punished if a person was harmed 
by a libelous statement. (And the person shouting fire 
could be punishedif someone was harmed by the shout.) 
However this again involves society to determine what is 4  
harm and what is libel; any such laws could be careful to 
place the full burden of proof on the person making the 
claim that direct harm was done him.
It is my opinion that complete freedom of speech is a 
praiseworthy ideal. Freedom of speech does not mean free
dom except to say bad things.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
it
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In.
Editor in-Chief............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor.........................................B. J. Barrera
Managing Editor ............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ........................ Michael McCoy
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
News Editor....................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor .................................Alma Rock
Features Editor .........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ...............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ............John Norris
Sports Editor .....................................Scott McCormick
Secretary Editor ....................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .................. ..............Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riv?, Margie Park, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook.
New* Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack, Marty Moore, Fay 
Landau, Jay Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan, 
Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne. 
Features Staff: Marion Mulligan, Martha Hodgson, Jeffrey Axelrad,. Carolyn
Ryznar.
Sports Staff: Dick Elder. Jay Arnold, A1 Green, Ron Bidula, Chris Macosko. 
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Craig 
Edwards, Diane Brown, Penny Ross, Beth Whitely, Ted Pierce.
Copy Staff: Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Diane Hayduk, Jane Keeler, Mary Lott 
Recco, Ginny Salko, Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Helen Beatty, Verna 
Ream, Mike Greenawalt, Nancy Green.
Photo: Jim Nichol, Russ Stinebaugii, Dick Osman.
Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarian, Beth Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Kamell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino
grad, Carol Young.
Circulation Staff: George Kali, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin.
*>

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 23, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
A long time ago, it seems now, a plain impera
tive became the best-known motto of IBM: 
"Think. I You may assess the achievement 
of our company, and of any individual in it, by 
the same word: Think. I If you are interested 
in achievement with IBM, ask your college 
placement officer for our brochuresand for 
an appointment when the IBM representative 
is interviewing on campus. I IBM is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer. I
If you cannot attend the interview, write: I
Manager of College Relations, I IBM Corp., 
590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y. I
MOVE AHEAD: SEE NOV.18.1963
FRATERNITIES
Now available on Tech 
Wholesale meat & milk
Meat Is U. S. D. A. Prime and Choice 
Portion controlled, delivered at no extra charge.
CONTACT BARRY THOMPSON .. MU 2-0767
achievement:
Your Man 
In Congress
With the appointment of four positions this month, Tom 
Pike announced that all the offices of Student Congress have 
been filled. The duties of the treasurer have been taken by 
John Jackson. Blaine Cliver heads the Spring Carnival Committee; Tom Glassberg will organize Campus Chest; and 
Chris Macosko was appointed chairman of Public Relations.
The other twelve committees of Student Congress and 
their chairmen are: Assembly, Henry Galliot; Activities, 
Andrea Vidakovic; Constitution, Bob Hawkins; Elections, 
Mike Allen; Fall Festival, Ben Porter; General Campus, 
Jack Turk; Leadership, Joe Sandulli; Freshman Orientation 
Week, Joe Sandulli; Rules, Lee Weller; Tech, Roger Powell; 
Union, Tom Douglas and Helen Beatty.
These fifteen committees do the real work of Congress. 
All the committee heads meet the Wednesdays between regu4 lar Congress meetings. The chairmen meet with their com
mittee members as needed. Committees consist of both voting 
Congress representatives and interested non-members. Com
mittee work offers rewarding experience in working in Stu
dent Government and all-school affairs. It can be satisfying 
to know that you helped to make Fall Festival a success. In 
addition, Congress Committees offer the training ground for 
underclassmen interested in leadership on campus in the 
future.
Campus groups and individual students who want infor
mation, campus changes, or simply to voice a grievance can 
^ often get results by seeing the representative committee 
heads. They, with their committees, in turn, can fully pre
pare the problem to present it at a regular meeting.
To aid the uninformed, a brief summary of the commit
tees duties follows. Assembly handles the speakers and funds 
for the Tuesday all school assemblies. Activities coordinates 
all catnpus groups, keeps lists of members and officers, and 
most important represents the interests of the activities in 
Congress. Campus Chest runs the annual Charity drive high
lighted by the UMOC contest. Self-explanatory is Constitution. Today chairman Hawkins is presenting the amendment 
C for all campus elections of Student Congress. Elections runs 
the spring campus elections for representatives in the dorms 
and departments. Fall Festival and Spring Carnival have 
the big job of running the two all school weekends. Requests 
for campus funds, for example Patterns, go through Finance. 
General Campus is a catch all. It includes the library, parking 
meters, bulletin boards and campus polls. Leadership is plan
ning a conference for the heads of campus organizations. Joe 
Sandulli ran this years Freshman Week. Next years chair
man will succeed him next semester. Public Relations keeps 
the campus informed on Congress and its committees. Rules 
 is headed by the vice chairmen and handles procedure and 
absenteeism. The new Tech committee promotes school spirit.
DhEHmH o xWuW G^MRGGA IGU2GIxMTGUm xAH u^ARHA-0 Photo by Pete Pook
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
Nationally-known Clothing and Furnishings, 
Featuring ivy League Fashions
| CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD
Si! OPEN MONDAY, WEDNESDAY & FRIDAY TILL 9:# P.M
Pardon me if I sound as if the 
executive position I've landed 
deals with the whole future of 
the world.It does.
Certainly, there's no organization today conduct
ing more vital business than the business of the 
United States Air Force. And very few organiza
tions that give a college graduate greater oppor* 
tunities for responsibility and growth.
As an Air Force officer, you'll be a leader on the 
Aerospace Teamwith good pay, a 30-day paid 
vacation each year, educational opportunities.
How can you get started? For many, the best way 
is through Air Force ROTC. But if you missed out 
on AFROTC, or if theres no unit on your campus, 
you can still apply for Air Force Officer Training 
School. This three month course leads to a com
mission as a second lieutenant in the United 
States Air Force.
For more information about Air Force OTS, sea 
your local Air Force representative.
U. S. Air Force
l

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October 23, 19S3
Price to Speak 
On Test Ban
Dr. Charles Price, past presi
dent of the American Federation 
of Scientists and Chairman of the 
Department of Chemistry, Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, will be 
featured speaker at a public meet
ing sponsored by United World 
Federalists on Wednesday, Octo
ber 30, in the Ball Room at the 
Pitt Student Union (Old Schen\ley Hotel). The topic of his ad
dress will be Science and Sur
vival.
Admission to the lecture-sched
uled for 8:00 that evening, is free 
to anyone who would like to at
tend.
Winner of the nations top sci
entific award, The American 
Chemical Societys Award in 
Pure Chemistry, Dr. Price will 
discuss the scientific implications 
of the newly ratified atomic test 
ban and the need for world law 
and enforcable disarmament 
through the United Nations.
Dr. Price has long been active 
in the Federalist movement. He 
has served as the organizations 
president and now acts as a mem
ber of its Executive Committee 
and as chairman of its Political 
Action Committee.
Murphy Wins 
Scholarship
Thomas M. Murphy, an archi
tecture student at Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, has won a 
$1000 tuition scholarship in a 
national architectural design 
competition.
Mr. Murphy competed with his 
fellow students in the sixth an
nual Architectural Student Design 
Competition sponsored by the Tar 
Products Division of Koppers 
Company, Inc.
He submitted the prize-winning 
entry for design of a multi-story 
professional building for the Alle
gheny Center redevelopment pro
ject on North Side.
Burge Stars 
For Kilties
(continued from page 1) 
and Sonata by Hans Henkemans.
Mr. Burge is becoming increas
ingly well known throughout the 
United States due to his extra
ordinary skill and insight into the 
performance of new music, and 
because of the growing number of 
performance of new music and 
His extensive and varied activi
ties during the past year include 
an appearance as piano soloist at 
the First International Webern 
Festival in Seattle, a lecture-recital at the 1963 national conven
tion of the Music Teachers Na
tional Association in Chicago, x 
concert in the National Gallery in
BILL HELLERS "WEINSTEIN'S"
HAS DORM DELIVERY
iLNha7iadh 6afLip c vLYs_ahLNNLd
3708 FORBES AVE.
ON THE HOUR: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 
EVERY EVENING EXCEPT FRL, SAT.
MINIMUM ORDER $3.00
CALL 682-7752 - FOR MENU
udntt Fd yl''D ci slet One
Papers Read at Tech 
For Buhl Conference
Scientists from the United States, England, Germany, 
Japan, Sweden, and The Netherlands will present research 
papers at the First Buhl International Conference on Mate
rials to be held on Tech campus, Thursday and Friday, Oc
tober 31 and November 1. ? '
More than 250 researchers from 
colleges and universities, indus
trial research laboratories, and in
dependent and government spon
sored research agencies, will be in 
Pittsburgh for the two-day meet
ing to discuss Transition Metal 
Compounds: Transport and Mag
netic Properties.
According to Dr. Edward R. 
Schatz, dean of research and di
rector of the conference, the re
sponse from throughout the world 
has been overwhelming. We have! 
received acceptances from almost 
twice as many people as we orig
inally expected, indicating the | 
need for a conference of this type 
to discuss vital areas of materials 
research. Not only will the meet
ing bring world leaders in re
search to Pittsburgh, it will also 
give key Pittsburgh scientists the 
opportunity to discuss the citys 
growth in research with col
leagues from throughout the 
world.
The Conference was made pos
sible by a gift of $150,000 from 
the Buhl Foundation. At the time 
the plan was publicly announced, 
A. W. Robertson, president of the 
Buhl Foundation, saw it as one 
of the most important gifts the 
Buhl Foundation has ever made. 
The response to this first meeting 
is indicative of the accuracy of 
this statement.
Practically every college and 
university interested in materials 
research in the United States, in
cluding almost all of the big ten 
and ivy league schools as well 
as such other institutions as Mas
sachusetts Institute of Technol
ogy, the University of California, 
Stanford, and Notre Dame will be 
represented. Industrial laborator
ies at U. S. Steel, Gulf, Westinghouse, Koppers, Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass, Jones and Laughlin, Bell 
Telephone, General Electric, and 
many others are sending research 
people as are such independent 
or government sponsored organi
zations as Mellon Institute, NASA, 
Argonne, Oak Ridge, the Bureau 
of_ Standards, the Batelle Memor
ial Institute, and at least three 
European research laboratories.
odlpdaC uaecd Ti hnc
Writer Attacks 
Axelracl
(continued from page 4) 
state, was never a philosophy 
but a compromisethe rulers 
and the ruled. From England to 
States Rights in her new world 
colonies men fought to be equal 
as equal as their maker meant 
them to be.
So, if Mr. Axelrad wants to 
knock it, he should knock its 
administration, and not attack 
its ideal state which needs noth
ing more.
C. T. Springer 
65- M.E.
Classfied Ads
Dance Music. The Leo Alman Combo. 
421-2083. Evenings.
John M. Roberts & Son Co.
 3 Stores 
Downtown East Hills Ml. Lebanon
.'B FGGR NMW NEGllTUO _HUMHA dHbM MG nGAUHDm
*330
.00 Fed. Tax
Incl.
Special College Time Payments Available
OUR DIAMONDSCOPE: Each diamond is 
gem tested and registered as to color, cut
ting, clarity and carat weight for your 
protection. No doubt your great, great 
Grandmothers Diamond canie from 
Roberts.
Gerald Bourland, B.S., Central Missouri State 
College, '61, picked Western Electric because it 
offered many interesting and challenging oppor
tunities in his favorite fieldsautomation and data 
processing. Geralds'work here consists of writing, 
testing and documenting computer programs  
each one a different and exacting assignment.
Also of great interest to Gerald when he joined 
Western were the Companys numerous manage
ment courses and paid Tuition Refund Plan. He 
knows, too, that well need to fill thousands of su
pervisory positions within the next few years. And 
he's getting the solid experience needed to qualify.
Right now, Gerald is working on a verification 
sub-system for maintaining production control. It 
consists of seven distinct computer programs that
Western Electric MANUFACTURING
operate as one routine which performs the func
tion of tying together and verifying forecasted with 
actual customer orders.
If you, like Gerald Bourland, set the highest 
standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have 
the qualifications were looking for  lets talk! 
Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now for 
liberal arts, physical science and business majors, 
as well as for electrical, mechanical and industrial 
engineers. For more detailed information, get your 
copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities 
booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write:. 
Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 
Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to 
arrange for a personal interview when the Bell Sys
tem recruiting team visits your campus.
AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities  Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U. S. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J.  Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark.  Gen. Hq., 195 Broadway, New o
rHHM wHAxgR 6G^AgxUR
_Gul^MHA NymMHum ammGITxMH xM FL

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 23, 1963  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Pa*e 7
Bands blared and bagpipes whined on several thousand 
home coming fans saw the Tech Tartans fall 41-26 to the 
Grovers at Grove City. The large crowd was on its feet all 
afternoon as the Grovers and Tartans traded blows in every 
quarter.
Tech received the opening kickoff and promptly march
ed down the field in three plays for a score. Dick Merrill broke 
loose at Grove Citys 40 yard line and sprinted the distance
for the TD. Paul Wisniewski kick-^---------------------*-----------------------------------
ed the extra point and Tech led
g) 7-0. Merrill was later injured and 
did not finish the game.
On the first play after the en
suing kickoff, Techs defensive
again thrilled in the third quarter 
as the high speed action resumed. 
Grove City again caused the ex
citement as they passed over a be
wildered Tech defense and scored
line smashed into Grove Citys an early TD for a 32-13 lead.
Tech was being hurt by strong 
passing and up the middle trap 
plays.
The Tartans came roaring back 
though, and scored on a 35-yard 
pass from Wisniewski to flanker
backfield and recovered a Grover 
fumble on their 40-yard line. It 
looked as if this was'going to be 
Techs day but they fumbled the 
ball right back to Grove City. The 
Grovers then put on a sustained
drive that ended in a TD with: back Jim Black. Techs defense
% 7:00 left in the first quarter. Then 1 then buckled down to the job of 
with the score knotted at 7-7, the . holding the moving Grovers but 
fireworks began. Grove City had to yield on a 25-yard field 
scored again in the first quarter j goai from an accurate Grover toe. 
on the accurate passing of their At the end of three quarters of 
quarterback, Alexander. The score j play the score read Grove City 35 
was now 13-7. j and Tech 20.
Tech scored again in the second j Four quarter play proved no
quarter but not before the less interesting as both Grove
City and Tech scored again. A 
70-yard pass set up a fifth Grover
Grovers had pushed across two 
big scores. These came on a 29- 
yard end sweep by alert half,' score which came on a flat pass 
 Shear, and another long pass over from Techs six-yard line. With 
Tech defenders. Techs score came 
on a 10-yard pass play to Tartan 
back A. Abels. After two quarters
12:00 minutes left in the game, 
Grove City led by a 21-point mar
gin 41-20. Following a couple of
of wide-open football, Tech trailseries of downs, Tech placed 
ed by the score 25-13. themselves in scoring position as
After watching the Grove City' guard Jack Love rumbled 15- 
and Tech bands perform at halfi yards with a blocked Grove City 
time, the home-coming crowd was' punt down to the Grover 29-yard
LEARN TO BOX!!
Be a master in the art of self defense.
Expert trainers secrets can be yours !
No equipment needed. Form a campus toxing 
club. Among your friends for fun, self-confidence 
and real physical fitness. Complete brochure and 
lessons One Dollar. Send to:
PHYSICAL ARTS GYM, 363 Clinton Street, 
Hempstead, Long Island, New York.
Big weekend on campus coming up?
Long Distance is the quick, sure way to make arrangements with your .date.
"COCA COuk 1 AMO  CO*" AM MOWCftCO NAOf-MAAKS WHICH lOCWTtFY 0*1* T*( SSppeci pa iSl cpctucpdt nnaaaSFy....gym....tumble.... 
flip...flop...lug...tug 
push...jump...leap... 
...chin...lift...pull... 
...run...puff puff... 
pause
take a break... things go better with Coke
Bottled under the authority of Th Coca-Cola Company by: Quaker state c*ea-cia Botti ia g Campaay
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
sS
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
MASSAGIC
FLORSHEfM
uHsS
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
Carnegie Techs cross country team claimed Gannon Col
lege of Erie, Pa., as its thirteenth victim, 15-46 last Wednes
day. The Flagstaff hill fans saw five Tech jerseys take a 
blanket first place finish. Tom Bednarz, Harry Burkholder, 
Herb DAle, Chris Macosko, and Andy Niedra came home 
in a dead heat at 25 minutes 42 seconds.
The Tartan squad had a rough-< 
er time than the score indicates 
with the inexperienced Gannon 
harriers. At the two mile mark 
three Gannon boys, unaware that 
they were supposed to be ex
hausted, hung doggedly to BedI narz and Macosko. But the long 
three mile hill and the steep grade 
going up to Schenley Golf Course 
killed of two of the three. Niedra 
took the last Gannonite on the 
back nine, and DAlo fought past 
him behind Flagstaff. Mike En
gle, who didnt get going quite 
soon enough, settled for seventh. 
Ken Phillips and Paul Fochler 
grabbed tenth and eleventh.
Duquesne was also scheduled
for the meet; however, it seems 
that Wednesdays basketball prac
tice interfered. They will be run 
on a later date.
The addition of several excel
lent freshmen and the number of 
meets on the familiar Schenley 
course make prospects for an
other undefeated season appear 
bright. The Westminster meet on 
their home course, November 2, 
should be the major hurdle. This 
afternoon the hill and gully 
runners take on Geneva College 
at 4:30 on Flagstaff. The harriers 
also hope to add a little variety 
to the diet of varsity and I.M. 
for the Fall Festival crowd.
 Photo by Bill Greene
Tortans Display Wide Open Offense;
Gannonites Fail in Schenley; 
Tech Runners Still Undefeated
Score Four Times But Lose 41-26

---------------------------------------------------

VOL f  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, October *5, 1963
These six men were members of a team that developed 
an x-ray system so advanced that, even with exposure 
to x-radiation reduced by 80%, images come out much 
sharper on the diagnostician's viewing screen. By bring
ing to the task the unique talents, experience, and 
educational background of each member, this team of 
experts has made it possible for radiologists and phy
sicians to do a better job of medical diagnosis.
Of these six men from General Electric's X-Ray 
Department, Milwaukee, four have degrees in engi
neering, one majored in physics and math, and the 
Sixth in economics. Not one was trained primarily in 
medical sciencealthough, of course, their Depart
ment works closely with the medical profession. Nor 
did any of them anticipate, when in college, that their 
major subjects would be put to use in providing 
improved tools for diagnostic medicine. But they did 
recognize as their record shows that better-thanaverage performance could qualify them for challeng
ing jobs with a forward-looking company like General 
Electric.
There are hundreds of such teams at General Elec
tric today. Their make-up varies, and almost every field 
of specialization, technical and non-technical, is rep
resented somewhere in the Company. The projects 
are just as varied; nose cones for missiles, desalinization of sea water, computers,or power plants to squeeze 
more electricity from a pound of coal or a gram of 
atomic fuel.
The more than 36,000 college graduates at General 
Electric comprise one of the largest and most varied 
pools of talent in the nation. But the Company's future 
is, in many ways, wrapped up in people still in school 
and college. As projects increase in size and com
plexity, so will the need for able young people. People 
who demonstrate, through their college record, the 
best use of their educational opportunities, who know' 
the meaning of excellence, who understand the dif
ferences between specialization and narrowness, 
breadth and shallowness. Such people, working {of 
gether, will make up the teams of the future, and be> 
the architects of what we call progress.
The team (left to right): Jerry E. Rich, Ceorgetown Col 
lege, Ky.,'53; Robert J. Mueller, Marquette/44; WilliamA. Mayer, Univ. of Calif.,'47; John P. Kelley, R.P.Ir/47? 
William C. Waggoner, West Va. Univ., '33, Pratt Inst. 
'37; Arthur Pruneau, Univ. of Vermont, '52.
Tkogress fs Our Most /mf>orfon+ Phx/vc?
THEHakerrr HeH.Sah.
All Grad Finale to IM Football 
TO & BTP Fall to Grad Teams
Saturday morning dawned clear and humid. To the casual 
observer it was going to be just another one of the hot after
noons which have been making themselves felt around the 
Tech campus lately. This was not to be the base, however, 
for this was the day the powerful Grad Eagles were to face 
the acid test in their drive for the intramural football champ
ionship, This was the long-awaited day o the clash between 
the Grad sand Alpha Tau Omega, the defending champions.
One oclock came and both sides^---------------------------------------------------------
of the field were lined with spec
tators anxious to witness the out
come. Henry Segaline was there 
with his ATO bugle, ready to lead 
the charge of victory for the 
Tau's. The whistle blew, and the 
right foot of ATO Frank Oliver 
sent the pigskin end-over-end into 
the waiting arms of Grad Eagle 
Bob Murphy, standing in his own 
end zone. Murphy swerved left, 
picked up a block, cut back inside, 
and found himself in the clear. 
Slanting toward the far side of the 
field. Murphy outraced three Taus 
to the end-zone and, before the 
game was ten seconds old, the 
Grads had five points on the score
board. The Taus received the en
suing kickoff and were forced to 
punt. A bad pass from center hit 
the ground in front of Pete Mc
Kay in the end-zone, and the 
Grads had two more points on the 
scoreboard. The next time the 
Grads got possession of the ball, 
Murphy hit end Howie Pifer with 
a sideline pass. When Howie 
realized that he had caught the 
ball, he streaked the rest of the 
way for the Grads second touch
down.
three touchdown passes, but the 
24-7 halftime lead built up by the 
Taus proved to be insurmountable.
Beta Theta Pi and SAE waged 
a real thriller in their quarter
final encounter. When regulation 
time expired, the score was dead
locked at 15-15, and a penetration 
was required.
Lee Collins got behind the SAE 
secondary to take a pass from 
Dick Morrison and race into the 
end zone, putting the Betas into 
the semi-finals. .
In the Eagles league, second 
place had to be decided by a 
play-off, since the Grad Eagles 
B, the Marauders, and the 
Trojans ended regulation play 
with identical 2-2 records. The 
Grads won the flip of the coin 
and received a buy in the first
round. The Trojans then squared 
off against the Marauders and 
took a 29-7 decision. However, in 
their encounter with the Grads, 
they could not repeat their earlier 
conquest of the season. Thus, the 
Grads B earned a spot in the 
play-offs with a 14-12 victory.
Regular season play in 
spective leagues ended 
with no radical changes in any 
of the standings. The Betas prov
ed that they were the best in 
Browns league as Lee Collins 
scored four times in a 45-13 
over Phi Kappa Theta.
Eagles A accomplished 
task in the Steelers league 
rolled over Delta Tau Delta 38-11. 
The Dunkers proved that it is pos
sible to lose them all as they 
dropped their fifth straight, this 
time to BTP B by a 27-17 score. 
Meanwhile, the Finks B whip
ped the Dorms 24-5 to clinch sec
ond place in the Giants league and 
beat out TDP for a spot in the 
play-offs. Finally, the Kappa Sigs 
pulled off a minor upset as they 
nipped the ATOs 17-13 as the 
Taus experienced a letdown after 
clinching first place in the Eagles 
league.
/M OiicIltt H'dhC OdCceElt; 
(ttrAclaC TtlCk eh RdNk FiGt
Joe mokes valiant attempt 
for ATO.
The opening event for this 
years Fall Festival will be an 
All-Star intramural football game 
held in the Tech Bowl on Friday 
The two teams will bel)' 
made up of All-Stars, chosen by 
the Intramural Board. Stars from, 
the Steelers and Browns Leagues 
will oppose the top players from 
the Giants and Eagles Leagues.
Players from the Grad Eagles 
SAE, and Sigma Nu will be 
counted on heavily by the GiantEagle squad, while ATO, BTP, 
and the Grads B will be the main-, 
of the Steeler-Browns team, 
game will feature the 
cream of Techs non-varsity foot
ball players and should feature 
a duel between ATOs Steve 
Foels and the Grad Eagles Bob 
Murphy.
*>
Football Schedule
26  Franklin and 
Marshall 
Nov. 2  Washington and 
Jefferson
They helped make a major advance in medical
In the second quarter, Murphy 
hit Romig with a TD pass. After 
the Taus picked up a first down, 
the half ended with ATO on the 
short end of a 19-1 score. After j 
Murphy ran for a touchdown in i 
the third quarter, the score went 
up to Grads 24  ATO 2. In the 
final quarter, the scoring pattern! 
changed. ATO picked up four first! 
downs and hit paydirt when Steve i 
Foels hit McKay with a five yard 
pass over center. A final TD from 
Murphy to Crane completed the, 
scoring, and the Grads had won 
the big one by a score of 29-11. 
As the Taus returned to 1091 
Morewood Ave., an unidentified 
ATO turned to Fred Kosofsky and 
remarked, Well, Fred, you have 
a big ball club, and you should 
do well again next year now that 
you have a whole year of experi
ence under your belt."
The Grads B" made it an all 
Grad Eagle final as they nipped 
the previously unbeaten Betas 17- 
14. The Grads took a 7-2 halftime 
lead on a Gettmann to Prescott 
touchdown pass, but the Betas 
Lee Collins scored on an end run 
in the third quarter; after three 
periods they held the upper hand 
at 8-7. Then Gettmann hit Pres
cott with his second TD pass of 
the day to make it 12-8, but the 
Betas came back to pick up a first 
down, narrowing the margin to 
three points. At this point Gett
mann faded back and threw a 
bomb into the end zone, where 
Prescott made an unbelievable 
catch to put the game on ice. Werronen caught a TD pass from 
Collins in the closing seconds, but 
the final score was 17-14. The 
campus could now look forward to 
an all Grad Eagle championship.
The Grads A won their semi
final game by beating the Finks 
B 40-7. Kosofsky scored twice 
and Murphy added two more in a 
game which was never really in 
doubt from the opening moments. 
The Grads B took SN 26-21 to 
move into the quarter finals 
against BTP. Sigma Nu held a 
14-13 lead at the half, but the 
passing combination of Gettmann 
to Prescott made the difference in 
the end. It offset fine passing by 
SNs John Blue and fine receiving 
by their stellar end Andy Logan.
ATO reached the semi-finals by 
virtue of a 36-19 trouncing of DU. 
Quarterback Steve Foels ripped 
the DUs hitting end Joe Sheldrick and back Mickey Graziano 
for two touchdowns each. Delta 
Upsilons John Pavlik caught
.. .yet there's not an "M. D." in the house
