VOTE IN 
CLASS ELECTIONS 
TODAY
MUSICAL CLUES 
HOME CONCERT 
MAY 2
VOL. XVIII NO. 30CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1924
MUSICAL CLUBS 
IN TOP FORM 
FOR CONCERT
COMMERCIAL CLUB TO
ELECT NEW OFFICERS
Combined Clubs Are in Ex
cellent Condition as Home 
Concert, the Climax of the 
Season, Approaches
SCHEDULED FRIDAY
There will be a meeting of the Com
mercial Club on Wednesday, April 
30 at S p. m. in tile Commercial Club 
Room. Officers for the ensuing year 
will be elected and other important 
business discussed.
Pete Seaman and Danny Kramer 
accompanied by their orchestra will 
have something unique in the way of 
stunts. Russ Horn and his Harmony 
Four will also entertain.
All Commercials are urged to at
tend.
The Carnegie Musical Clubs are 
all set for the combined Home Con
cert to be given Friday evening, 
May 2, at the Sclienley Theater. The 
spirit and pep displayed in the final 
rehearsal Sunday augured well -for 
the finest Home Concert that it will 
be Carnegie Techs privilege to at
tend. The Easter vacation seemed 
to have done the members of the 
Musical Clubs a world of good, and 
to have put them in just the right 
trim for the concert. Preliminary 
tickets for the concert, now being 
sold by all members of the clubs 
can be exchanged for reserved seat 
tickets in the Central Building with
out any further charge. The tickets 
for the home concert dance can also 
be obtained from any members of 
the Musical Clubs or can be obtain
ed the night of thoHome Concert. 
Concert * seats are 75, .50 and 35 
cents, and the' price of the formal 
dance to be held at the University 
Club is $2.00. The Collegiate Imps 
are" to play for the dance and prom
ise to dispense their best brand of 
music that night. Manager Broudy 
and Miss Issel also have a surprise 
up their sleeve for the dance, but 
will not divulge it until the dance 
begins.
A feature of the specialty num
bers of the Home Concert will be 
a Minuette Dance by Mary Skurkay 
and Jack Deniels. All who have 
seen Miss Skurksy dance know what 
she can do in the-way of the 
terpsichorean iirt, and with Jack 
Daniels as a partner that evening 
she will undoubtedly outdo herself.
Mr. James Funkliouser will render 
several selections on the cello in 
the manner that has won him ap
plause from every audience the Man
dolin Club has played to this year.
Another high grade soloist will 
be presented in the person of Mr 
LeBaron, tenor. Mr. LeBarons work 
this year as the Glee Club soloist, 
has been one of the means for keep
ing the reputation of the Glee Club 
up to the 'high standards, qf former 
years.
Other specialty numbers will *in(Continued on Page Two.)
TAG WILL ADMIT ONE 
TO ALL C. W. EVENTS
Will Try to Prevent Tags 
Going to Undesirable 
Type of Person
MARDI GRAS WILL BE 
HELD INGYMAND LAB
Spectacular Decorations and 
Strange Costumes to Vivify 
Occasion
The Mardi Gras this year is to be 
held in the Gymnasium and Langley 
Laboratory on the Friday night of 
Campus Week. The Gymnasium will 
house the major portion of the car
nival and the Lab. will serve only as 
an annex to take care of the over
flow.
Participants in the affair will as 
usual be required to come in costume. 
No regulations upon the style of dress 
have been established, but the com
mittee suggests that the garb selected 
be both respectable and attractive.
A plan is to be tried which it is 
hoped will pievent Campus Week 
tags from getting into the hands of 
outsiders and will thus cut down the 
proportion of bibulous uninvited 
ones who annually accept our hospi
tality. If the plan succeeds, and the 
affair is made exclusively Carnegie, 
the Mardi Gras will excel in spirit of 
camaraderie any that has gone be
fore. Stilted restraint is the anti
thesis of the spirit of Carnegies car
nival evening.
The decorations for the Gym and 
the Lab are to be futuristic in har
mony with the other Campus Week 
designs. One of the features of the 
Gym will be a myriad ball, a revolv
ing sphere of a thousand mirrors, sus
pended from the ceiling in the cen
ter of the room. Vari-colored spot
lights will play upon the globe, and 
the reflected brilliance will make the 
walls and floor a panorama of blend
ing and shifting colors.
In the Langley Lab, a great cone 
of many colors will be hung about 
the center pole. The orchestra will 
probably be seated beneath its broad 
bas. The futuristic style, with its 
imaginative cubist designs, gives 
great breadth for the exercise ' of 
originality and also harmonizes with 
the sensations which Campus Week 
always produces. The decorations of 
both Gym and Lab will bo vivid stim
uli to enjoyment.
The music in the gymnasium will 
be provided by the incomparable 
Imps, whose popularity seems ever to 
ascend and never to wan. They are 
at their best on great occasions, and 
that evening they promise to surpass 
all past efforts. Another good orches
tra has been secured for the Lab. No 
dancer will feel weary with such mu
sic to stimulate him.
Campus Week tags will be placed 
on sale soon in all four schools, and 
the price will be $1 per tag. Tags 
will be admission to all the events, 
with the exception of the show at the 
Schenley, Thursday evening. This 
means that all dances will be free 
to those having tags. There is one 
point which aroused much confusion 
last year, and this must be straight
ened Nout.
Each person going into a dance or 
event must have a tag. If a fellow 
takes a girl they must each have a 
tag. One tag is not good for TWO 
people, ho matter who they are. 
Last year they were not good for ad
mission to the Coronation dance. This 
year they will be good for anything 
except hot dawgs and ice creamand 
pop.
The tag sale will be in charge of 
Frank Gore, treasurer of the Campus 
Week. He will appoint men (and 
girls) to take charge of the sale in 
each school. There will be an in
tensive sale to students. Every stu
dent, it is expected, will get two. 
However, students will not be limited 
to. two tickets, as was the case last 
year. You all know the trouble we 
have had with undesirable characters 
coming on the campus and giving the 
school a bad name. Keep this in 
min'd, and see that anyone for whom 
you wish to buy tickets is not that 
kind. You know the kind of people 
we dont want. Help to keep them 
out.
Absolutely no tags will be sold at 
the doors during the Mardi Gras, or 
any of the other events. If you want 
to get in, be sure and have your tags 
before you come. Its a small price 
to pay for the value received. Just 
take a look at the program, and see 
what you can get for onesmall iron 
man. If you have to save up for it, 
start now. But dont be caught nap
ping when the time comes. If the 
salesman misses you, look him up 
and get your tags.
Remember, one for you and one 
for your girl.
THREE QUEENS 
TO BE CHOSEN 
IN SEMI-FINAL!
THETA TAU ANNOUNCES
PLEDGES FOR SEMESTERCONSTRUCTION 
&."2S ON NEW TUNNEL;ig second semester;
H TO START SOON
Election Will be Held Today 
in Four SchoolsThree 
High Girls Will be Up for 
Final Election
FINAL WILL BE MAY 13
Thetn Tali,
Engineering
the following second semeste 
pledges: P. J. Bouron, .1. A. Crookston. A. F. Cafson. D. C. Jones,
Beecher, C. Pj Proctor. F. W. Cook
D. Kramer, P| Seaman, J Raddin, J. j ____________
Ward, A. H. Bryant, V. B. Smith. ; T ,   _ . . , ,
Theta Tau was founded October 15. John P. Casey Co. IS Awarded
1904, at the University of Minnesota, j 
It now lias IS chapters. The Nu 
chapter was installed at Carnegie j 
Tech in 1922. ; The Nil* chapter was 
locally known hs Gamma Nu Epsilon. \
The chapter gave the trophy cup for I 
last years campus week inter-frater
nity relays, j
Contract to Construct Con
crete Tunnel From Mach. 
Hall to Gym
TUNNEL BIG ADJUNCT
STUDENTS MAY SEND IN
MAIL ORDERS FOR SONG BOOK
Students who wish to reserve mail 
orders for copies of tho second edi
tion of tho Carnegie Song Book may 
do so by sending one dollar and ten 
cents per copy with tho address to 
which tho books should be mailed, to 
the Carnegie Song Book Staff, Box 
Go, Carnegie Tech Postofiice.
Tho ten cents qovers the charge for 
mailing. The Song Book staff will 
accept those preliminary reservations 
and will mail the books to nuy desired 
address.
Castle Fraternity 
Recognized by S. C.
Trophy Cup to be Awarded 
at Next General Assembly
The Castle, honorary mll/itaiy fra
ternity, has been officially recognized 
by the Student Council as a campus 
organization. This action came last 
week on the petition of the Castle 
Fraternity for recognition.
The Castle Fraternity was organized 
last year by a group of upperclassmen 
in the Engineer Unit of the R. O. T. C.
The purpose of the fraternity is to 
foster and promote interest in the 
military and the general defense of 
the country. It was originally organ
ized to include only those in the En
gineer Unit but it has since been ex
panded to includeall units of the R. 
O. T. C. at Carnegie Tech.
At, a recent initiation eleven men 
were initiated including Captain 
Lyons, head of the Engineer Unit and 
Lieutenant Hemingway, also of the 
Engineer Unit.
The student initiates are as follows: 
Leut. N. L. Heminway, J. S. Buzzard, 
J. B. Drengwitz, W. C. Fernelius. O. D. 
Foster, J. F. Harris, L. C. Hughes, 
Paul Jones, H. R. Jones and F. E. 
Powers.
This year the Castle offers a silver, 
trophy cup to the R. O. T. C. student 
making the highest score in any of the 
matches held by the rifle team. The 
j matches have been completed and the 
j cup will be awarded at the next gen
eral assembly.
Vote now, or forever hold your I 
peace! Now is the time for all good 
men to come to the aid of their 
queens L
Whos gonna be the queen, and if 
not, why not? These are vital ques
tions that must be solved before May 
15. Today will the votes be casi 
which will determine the three semi
final queens. Here is the chance to 
exercise your vaunted good taste and 
good judgment; in the choice of a 
May Queen you can illustrate all your 
mental strength and excellent dis
cernment.
When the voting takes place in 
Engineering, Industries, Fine Arts and 
Margaret Morrison Colleges the maid
ens who were there before will ap
pear again, but this time they will 
be armed with a picture of the fifteen 
queens elected before vacation. There 
will be no voting blind. The men can 
pick out a blonde, brunette or in be
tween, cast their votes for her, and 
the problem will be solved.
As before the mens names will be 
checked off as they vote, so that a 
really fair election will be assured. 
The three girls thus chosen will be 
pictured and inovled to their heart's 
content and one of the three of them 
will be elected queen on May 13. It 
is on this day, May'13, that the final 
elections will be held, even as the 
first two were held.
The coronation committee, under 
Dorothy Weber, is hard at work now, 
deciding on tho general color scheme. 
They are having a difficult time trying 
to match each girls comploxion. The 
designer of the costumes has accom
plished wonderful results and there 
is much delightful dope that could bo 
spilled were the permission given, but 
alas, the point is to reveal but one 
thing at a time, so that all the read
ers of these articles will be worked up 
to the highest pitch of excitement, 
waitingfor another morsel of infor
mation to drop! Thats how you get 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ACTIVITY INSIGNIAS After years of patient waiting and
AWARDED STUDENTS to announce that the long-desired tun
nel will soon be an accomplished
Migratory Dance to 
Start Campus Week
Location of Fraternities Pub
lished Soon
Student
Recommendations of 
Managers
Council Approves ! The original specifications were fur
nished last semester, but all the bids 
proved so high that it was decided 
j to delay construction until later in
--------------- the year. The contract has now been
The Student Council lias approvhQt to tho John F. Casey Company, 
ed the list of insignia awards for Lnd work will bo sturted within the 
all non-uthletic activties for tlio . . ,r, i next few weeks,year ol 1923-24. The lists ot recom
mendations submitted to the StuConsiderable designing was necesdem Council'* by the editors and sary to place the tunnel in the locamanagers of the various student ac-1 tion most favorably situated to altivities served as a basis for the uow01. futuro expansion. The bluoawards made jby the Student Counprints now show it traversing tho 
c^* campus for Machinery 1-Iall, parallel
In order that no oversight shall to and about fifty feet south of tho
be made in the a\vards for the cur
rent school year, every student par
ticipating in activities is asked to 
scan the appended list for his name. 
A persons namo will appear only
Science Building over to the Arts 
bolloge. From hero it follows the 
south side of Woodlawn as far as 
Tech street, whore It breaks, one 
branch conunecting with the new gym
under one activity even though he and the other to Margaret Morrison
may be engaged in more. Any per
son who feels that an oversight has 
been made is requested to roport tho 
same, including the namo of tho 
organization with which he has 
served, to the Insignia Committee, 
Student Council, Carnogie Post Of
fice..
In order to obtain a gold insignia, |
Another branch runs ovor to Science 
School at tho nearest point.
In laying out tho tunnel, particu
lar pains were taken to Insure that 
oxtonslvo excavations and fills might 
bo avoided as much as possiblo and 
all work will bo open, that Is no tun
neling will bo reciuired.
------1 The tunnol itself will have Insldo
a student must havo served four I dimensions of abpilti 7x7% foot. All 
years or held (a major position in a the steam, water and olootrlc linos
JOURNAL ELECTS 
STAFF FOR YEAR
W. P. Bitler is Made Editor; 
J. A. Funkhuser to be 
Managing Editor
MILO MATTER 
IS CHOSEN TO 
HEAD COUNCIL
Elizabeth Yohe Made Secre
tary and Mike Kallfelz 
Treasurer for Next Year  
All Are Experienced
SELECTIONS PRAISED
The jolllest time of tho Aylile year, 
Campus Week, will be ushered in on 
Wednesday evening, May fourteenth, 
by the Inter-fraternlty Migratory 
dances! Every fraternity house on 
and off the campus have open house; 
every good orchestra in, and out of 
town will be booked for jobs; every 
house will vie with every other house 
in the matters of decoration, music, 
and unusual attractions; and every 
Carnegie man and girl will see every 
other Carnegie man and girl either in 
or on the way to one of said houses.
!f you have attended a Campus 
Week Migratory Dance before, there 
is not much chance of your missing 
this one; on the other hand, if you 
have never attended 'one, by all 
means take this opportunity to com
plete your education!
Sometime, in the very near future, 
the Tartan will publish a list of all the 
fraternities, giving their addresses, to
gether with a map, showing the short
est and easiest method of reaching 
the different houses.
MANY REQUESTS FOR 
FINE PRINTING WORK
Public Visits School 
On Exhibition Night
The general public took advant
age of Carnegie Tech's cordial in
vitation on Friday evening. Interest
ed friends of the institution poured 
through the halls of the four col
leges between 7:30 and 10:30 oclock 
and they saw the kind of work the 
students produce. All the depart
ments of the four colleges had rep
resentatives on the scene to explain 
and guide the visitors.
Several new features proved at
tractions, the new gymnasium with 
its womens locker room, filtration 
plant, swimming pool, boxing and 
wrestling rooms, drew a great por(Continued on Page Two.)
campus activity. Major positions in
clude editors-hj-chiof of publications, 
busiposs managers of publications, 
managers of organizations and mem
bers of the Student Council.
A. silver insignia is awarded to 
those who 'havfe served at least two 
years in some activity.
Only ono key will be awarded to 
a student, and this key will bo tho 
highest he. has won. That is, if a 
student is entitled to a silver and a 
gold, he will receive tho gold key. 
There will be engravod on the back 
of the insignia tho name of tho or
ganization for which ho has worked. 
Owing to the high cost of the in
signia and to the extra expense of 
on graying, only ono engraving will 
be made on oacli Insignia awarded 
for 1923-24. In tho futuro, howovor, 
It Is planned to havo engraved on 
each key, the names of all tho or
ganizations with which, a student 
has served, In tho socurlng of his 
emblem.
Corrections to the following list 
(Continuod on Pago Four.)
wilMjo ro-routod through the tunnol, 
so that It will bo too full to accom
modate pod estran traffic.
The old tunnel will bo filled up 
I tills summer and gravel walks tempo
rarily installed until tho ground has 
thoroughly sottlod. It is hoped that 
before tho next year Is ontlroly ovor 
that concrete walks will bo Installed 
all over tho campus. Inoldontly, tho 
new tunnol moans that all buildings 
will bo furnished with hoi. water.
The Laboratory Press under the di
rection of Professor Porter Garnett 
is rapidly achieving fame. The Labo
ratory Press has been invited by the 
American Printer to contribute a 
students specimen as an insert for 
the special Craftsmans Number to be 
issued in August at the time of the 
Third Educational Graphic Arts Ex
position.
The Strathmor6 Paper Company of 
Mitteneague, Massachusetts, has do
nated the paper for the 5,000 inserts 
which are called for.
A set of students specimens from 
the Laboratory Press has been re
quested by the San Francisco Museum 
of Art for exhibition at the Califor
nia State Art and Industrial Confer 
ence to be held in May. Similar re
quests have been received from the 
Smithsonian Institute for its perma
nent exhibition of graphic arts, and 
from Chevalier Raffaello Bertlori, for 
an exhibition of American Printing to 
be held at Milan in the fall, so that 
the Italian Employers and. Workers 
can have the opportunity to appre
ciate the graphic ait of your country."
Professor Garnett is one of twentyone persons in this country and 
abroad invited by the Ben Franklin 
Monthly to contribute to a sympo
sium on The Ten Best Types Avail
able to Modern Printers.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT J
How far back can you remember? 
As far as the famous Soph-Plebe fight 
which took place beforp Easter va
cation?
If you can, then, what do you think 
of the class of fights that take place 
around here? Much? Cannot be pos
sible! It may be, however, that we 
are misinformed.
Were you, too, under the impres
sion that a fight was to have a def
inite objective, a kite let us say, or 
a pennant? And then, when the Sophs 
succeeded in obtaining the trouble
some kite, the fight was successfully 
culminated for that side. Or, if the 
Plebes succeeded in keeping their 
emblem of fighting spirit, then they 
won the fight.
The way it is now, the classes take 
little or no notice of the object to be 
attained or retained. 'Somehow, it is 
lost sight of in the - free-for-all scram
ble the classes seem to be so fond 
of. They have degenerated from a 
battle of wits aided by fists to' a 
mere physical struggle, the more 
heads that crack the asphalt the bet
ter!
As one Sophomore puts it:
The contestants should remember 
that lost teeth, broken noses and 
sprained wrists, dislocated shoulders 
and general injuries do not help anyOrder Tickets for 
Blue Bandana Now
Blanks for Orders Will be 
Mailed to Frats and Dorms
Where will you be Friday morning, 
May 16?
That may seem to be a pertinent 
question, but really, you know, It is 
quite a vital one. There will be an 
answer to It, arid you will be sur
prised to know that the Campus
Week Committee now has that an
swer, and they are holding it until 
the proper time to tell you where 
you will be!
. . Perhaps that may astound you, too.
body to graduation, as they might do Uy-gj^ there is a little secret about the 
j If this were a medical college, morings festivities, and that is why
Then there is the methods to critiv/e don't tell you tho name of the
The old Paul Revere stunt is stunt. Someone let a kitten out of
Tho plans for the sale ol! tickets 
for tho Campus Week show has boon 
formulated and Manager It. C. 
Clement advlsos all of tlio students 
to hood tho following bits of Infor
mation if'thoy would havo seats.
In tho first place, the fraternities 
will all bo tulcen care of .by mall 
Mr. Clement has arrangod to send 
a letter to each houao containing a 
return blank, on which that house 
shall record tho number of tickets 
wanted for tho show. Then, in or
der, to afford everyone an equal 
chance for seats, some disinterested 
person will fill tlieso orders disre
garding the house from which they 
have come. No person can order 
more than four tickets, and no 
house will be allowed moro than 
four in any part of the theater. 
The dormitories will be served in 
the same manner. These letters 
have been sent out in time for the 
houses and dormitories to receive 
them in yesterday's mail, but if they 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Very little in the nature of campus 
publicity is given to the Technical 
Journal in comparison with that giv
en to other campus publications. 
This is perhaps accountable to tho 
nature of tlio material it publishes, 
which can be interesting only to 
those who are concerned with the 
subjects with which it deals.
A word VOT commendation Is duo 
the men who are keeping the 
machinery of tho Journal In well 
oil/ed, smoothly running, efficient 
condition.
The results of the election for 
now officers of the Journal aro as 
follows: Editor, W. P. Pltlor;
managing editor, J. A. Funkhauser, 
assistant managing editor, E. G. 
Pierson; associate editors, A. 
Stlegier and W. Winning;/ technical 
editor, b'ranlc Powers; cut editor, 
L. Fenn Vogt; buslnoss manager, 
Dave Maskovltz; advertising man
ager, Nelson H. Poe; circulation 
manager, J. W. Mot.ro; publication 
manager, F. L. Wagner.
This is tho beginning of tho 
fourth yoar Bitler has been connect
ed with tho Technical Journal. It 
la 'largely through Ills efforts that 
tho Journal has prosporod.
Funkhauser for tho past two years 
has dovoted a groat doal ol! time 
and Cffort to tho Journal.
Moskovltz ontora upon bln third 
year. Through his Interest tho cir
culation ond has boon effectively 
hold up. Sterling qualities have 
boon displayed In all phases of 
managerial work.
The last odltlon of tho Technic
al Journal is In Itself of sufficient 
value to bring Carnoglo Into tho 
notice and aproval of the toclmlcal 
world. Tho Toclmlcal Journal In 
fast taking Its placo among tho 
most worthy ol! Its type of publica
tion.
The next Journal will bo lsnuod 
during Campus Woolc.
Authentic Program 
For Vaudeville Show
FRIDAY MORNING, MAY 
16, IS BIG MYSTERY
clze,
so popular for gathering recruits, 
what do you think of It, judging by 
Its success In the past? IIow about 
I conscription, drafting men for tho 
bloody class wars: Sophomores dont 
you think conscription is your best 
I bet?
However you assemble your men,
a parcel when they made some sort; 
of remark about a costume for the 
j morning. However, costumes are of 
different typos, and they typify dif
ferent things, so you really don't 
know much moro than you did boforo 
you started to read this. Neither do 
we, for that mattor, as the committee
Tartan Reporter Secures 
Official Dope
Milo Matter was elected presi
dent of tho Student) Council for 
111)2*1-25 at the meeting last Wednes
day night. M. D. Kallfelz was at 
the same time chosen treasurer, and 
Elizabeth Yohe was made secretary.
Milo, more familiarly and affec
tionately known as Midge, is a 
Junior in the College of Engineering. 
Ho is one of tho most active and 
popular men in the school. In ad
dition to occupying the chair at the 
Stujdont Council meetings next 
year, Matter will lead the basket 
ball quintet in its tloor lrays, hav
ing been recently elevated to the 
captaincy by the letter men of this 
season. He is president of his class 
and is a member of Sigma Nu, 
Druids, Delta Skull, Castle and The
ta Tau.
Matter has had a. years experience 
on the Student Council and is well 
acquainted with tho routine business 
of . the presidents office. All his -de
cisions in student affairs are char
acterized by broad-mindedness and 
impartiality. The student, body ex
pressed satisfaction at his 'election, 
the common comment being that, ho 
Is well qualified to fill tho office.
Tho oloctlon was frqm a field of 
four candidates, 0110 from each of 
tho colleges. The other candldatos 
wore Mary Sitoumpllo, M. D. Kalifolz and O. B. Newman. They were 
chosen by tho students of Margarot 
Morrison, Industries and Arts, respoctlvoly.
Tho treasurer and soorelary were 
elected from tho assistant treasur
ers and secretaries for tills yoar. 
They are both woll fitted by train
ing and ability to HU the positions 
to which they have boon appointed, 
and they aro expected to serve with 
distinction during their tenure ol! 
office.
Presoul niombors of the Student 
Council declare themselves woll sat
isfied that tho p'orsons chosen to 
carry on tho work ol! that body as 
officers next yoar will very1 credit
ably discharge their duties, and will 
bo a powerful Influence for Increas
ing tho already groat, respect In 
which doolslons of tho council aro 
hold.
Girls Events to Have 
Big Place Campus Week
Kiddie Car Race Saturday to 
be Feature of Celebration
The vivacious versatile vaudovlllo 
venture which vented its sploon In 
tho last issuo of tho Tartan has 
proved to be somewhat of a dud. 
Somehow, somewhere, someone was 
asleep on the job and permitted a 
harebrained press agent to got Ills 
weird stuff into the stakl columns of 
the Tartan without an adequate in
vestigation of the verities and vani
ties of the story.
An authentic report of the feature 
program for tho official opening of 
Campus Week at the Vaudeville Show 
in the Carnegie Music Hall 011 Thurs
day, May 15, has been nepm-of] by a 
Tartan reporter. The 1924 Vaudeville 
Show will auspiciously open the fifth 
annual Campus Week.
Beginning the program Is the usual 
prologue, bringing on the spirit of 
Campus Week. The first act features 
The Orphans of the Storm and will 
be portrayed by members of the varTallt about ye peppy co-ods! Tho 
girls aro going to bo tho wholo show 
Campus Woek. They will not only 
grace tho dances, etc., with their pros, 
once, but they will pull off a few keon 
stunts of their own. For instance:
On Wednesday nlglit they will par
ticipate in the Migratory dance, in 
fact, they will migrate mightily, and 
verily, all day Thursday will they in
dulge In each individual event sched
uled for that day.
Then on Friday they spring some
thing of their own in the form of a 
tennis match of their very own which 
promises much excitement. At ten 
o'clock on May 16 the meet will com
mence, and last until all victors have 
been discovered.
Everybody Avants to be sure of see
ing this match and so our suggestion 
Is to begin disposing yourselves 
around the famous Carnegie terraces 
before the starting hour arrives. Come 
early and bring your, breakfast.
As one day always follows another, 
so will Saturday follow Friday, and 
the girls world-famed sweepstakes 
will take place at 9:00 a. m. of thiasity football squad.
Obie Newman, Rod Van Atta, and I last and greatest day of celebration. 
Grace Broderick will stage-the next j The course will be mapped out on. 
(Continued on Page Four.) i (Continued on Page Four)
Audicious Sporran Announces Staff 
Worthiest Journalists Incorporated
we all hope the next two or throo. <Uc|n't tell us what tho morning would 
fights (yes, there should be that bring forth.
many) will be organized encounters, Mainly, as It were, you aro to keep 
at which all participants will have an jn mind that there will be a morning
opportunity to display their general 
ship and cunning.
Let's have battles worth watching, 
maneuvers to applaud, and definite 
results to accomplish, and let there be 
(Continued on Page Two.)
oh Friday, May 1G, and the sun will 
rise just as it does over the country 
hills, but this time, the country hills 
will be on the Carnegie Tech Campus 
oh, we have said too much, so we 
shall stop!
The announcement of the re-nam
ing of The Sporran, was met with 
such acclaims of welcome and bursts 
of applause that the demand for 
recognition of tho enterprising staff 
members was almost Instantaneous.
Though not natiirally modest, the 
editors, et cetera, had Intendod to 
withhold their names, at least until 
after Carnpus Week, when they wore 
certain whether showers of appre
ciation or brickbats would grool; their 
efforts. The students, however, have 
demanded facts and, in consequonco 
of Its attested purpose, The Sporran 
feels obliged to satisfy their desires.
The editor Is none othor than Ken
neth Arnold, perhaps not so wellknown to the classes of '28 and '29, 
but acknowledged by his friends to 
be a man of sterling worth and keen 
literary judgment, as evidenced by 
his work on The Tartan.
As assistant editor Donald Alker
Gardner needs no introduction; a 
more glance at The Puppet revoals 
the exquisite wit and clever composi
tion of his master mind.
Ol! no lessor ability aro the assff 
date editors, Carol Folghl, and W. II 
Kaufman. Tlio former Is a true miei 
tress of gloom, the Shilling maintain 
lug'that her harrowing sketches art 
worthy of a Bernard Shaw or a Tur
genev, Kaufman's activities are so 
prolific that few organizations do not 
have him on their duos rocolvablo 
account,
Stove Broudy, unlike his famous 
forboarer, has long boon, rocoghlzed 
for his conservative judgment, and 
henco It is only fitting that, he 
should be business manager. Steve 
has covered more territory than any 
man in the Musical Clubs.
In the position of . advertising 
manager resides the cream of the 
(Continued on Patfe Four.)
m  J

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1924
Published every week by undergraduate o tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In tho Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
JtfDITOIl-IN-CHIIOI1
H. F. SIMPSON ..................................................................................Schenley 0143
UUSINIOSS MANAGER 
J. C. MAJOR..........................................................................................Illland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD.......................................Sclionloy 189Managing Editor
FRED C. SMITH..............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.......................................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
SARA MAE EVERETT..........................................................................Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES
II. H. WILSON______________________________________________
NIOWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ....................................................................................... Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schenley 9070
A. E. KROOIi........................................................Schenley 9070Alumni Editor
E. C. FRAZIER......................................................Schenley 0143Athletic Editor
It. W. SLEATH .....................................................................................Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY.................................................................................Exchange Editor
0. P. COUSE,  .............................................................................................Art Editor
IDON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W.' M. GIBSON.......................Schenley 9211Advertising Manager
B. BROUDY...................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS.
Estelle Garibaldi Almoo Pharo 1 J. M. Goss
Wilma Stlner N. C. Weser ^ McClelland
Carol Fojgbt v B Smlth O A LundoaUt
Mai garet McFall OE II. Harris n. L. Lepper
Rosemary McCambrldgo K a j0i,nH0I1 j. N. Conley
Nora Willetts K. Fulmer M. I-Iolllnshead
J. A. C. Foller______________________A. F. Carson______________Harriet Morwln
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao G. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. Harris E. C. Pluminor
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandroclc, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, A. 
Perreton, Leo C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves, J. M. Alrgood, N. Alexander, J. L. 
Bauerle, J. P. Strlzak, Lois Snyder.
The Editor-In-Chief 1 responsible for the policy of this paper; tho 
Manuglng Editor for the make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news Items must bo in the student 
post oillco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OlllceRoom r>-A, Industries Building. OUlce hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20. ____________________________________________________
IS IT A GOOD TRADITION?
Conversations during the past week have broughl; out a number 
of subjects upon which editorials could be written. So, perhaps this 
week's contribution will be lather a wandering effort to cover them 
all.
Last weeks CARN33J3E TARTAN created quite a furor among 
the administration, and in the athletic office. Lack of baseball on the 
sporting sheet caused1 trouble from the athletic office. The rather 
risque and detailed information of the vaudeville show ol! Campus 
Week caused the rest of the uproar. The grand total of the total up
roars caused quite a few men on the campus quite a lot'of discom
fort due to answering numerous calls from numerous occupants of 
numerous offices.
An idea gleaned from one ol! these offices by one. of these men is 
a good ono. (Call-downs are sometimes fruitful.) In discussing the 
Vaudeville show story, it seems that the main objection was that it 
offered publicity. Again another objection was that it was not true. 
The cause for complaint on this score cannot bo argued uponits 
.justness is ,too plainly recognizable. No paper purposing to publish 
news should permit in its columns news stories which lack, truth, 
unless printed iu a special column known to bo resorved for nonsense 
and humor.
Returning to the other complaint, we also admit the undesirabil
ity of undesirable publicity. Somehow or other, while talking ol! this, 
the subject of All Fools Day came up. Whether this event as 
planned would bo undesirable is not tho question. Very few events 
are deliberately planned to Ini undesirable, but out of many of thorn 
no matter how carefully planned they are, some undesirable traits 
.crop out. Theroin lies the trouble.
"All Fools Day as planned is O. K. It furnishes an outlet for 
Tun which is mighty welcome to a student who has been cooped up 
in a class room day in and day out for many weeks. It is n good 
relaxation from a hard days grind, II is innocent funif carried 
out according to Hpooittontionn.
Kill, the fact confronts us that if never has yet boon carried out 
I,luil. way. l/ast years caused trouble, as did the yoar before, and 
this year was no different.
'Tis said that wo are a bunch ol! old fogies if wo do not enjoy 
All Fools Day. Oran tod! But we do enjoy it. Bvoti so, we aro 
going to advise for its abolition, and no doubt wo're to bo called old 
for this stand, but nevertheless, our stand tanda.
When looking at such celebrations, tho (JAIIN.13G11.0 fl.\AHTA.N 
does not look only from the point ol! view of enjoyment--it looks to 
:lhul whether or not the celebration under discussion is up to CAIINl'KilK TM/H standards, and whether or not it furnishes' publicity of 
the right, kind.
Throe years ago, a certain professor wrote a scathing criticism 
of Carnegie Techs poverty day. Many of us laughed at it, and called 
it bunk. More than likely it was, but dont you think for one mo
ment, that everybody who read it considered it as such. Many took 
it in, and immediately formed >a. bad opinion of CABNECIE.
So, the main thing to think about on this matter is that it offers 
opportunities for thoughtless students to reflect discredit upon our 
College.
It is not law that makes order. Good intentions never accom
plished anything. It is the obeying and the carrying out of them that 
docs. Yet our jails are very seldom empty, and life is not yet perfect.
All Fools Day should be abolisheda better substitute 
should be found.
Let not your minds be so closed to reason that you cannot see the 
harm which lies in an established tradition. Just because it is a tra
dition is no reason for its continuance.
Re-read this editorial, and give the matter a good, square and 
impartial thought.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29 AND 30
Richard III....................................................>...........8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, MAY 1
BasebaJlOnrnegio-P.it,t; ..... .....................................................................\.............6:00, Braddock Field
Richard .HI..................................................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY* MAY 2
TennisOarncgio-W. & T......................................................Washington
Richard III................................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Musical Clubs Concert...............................3:00 and 8:15, Arts Theatej*
Musical Clubs Dance..........................................9:30, Univorsity Club
SATURDAY, MAY I
TennisCarnegie-West Virginia .................................. Morgantown
Bio hard III...... .....................................00 and 8:15, Arts Theater
SUNDAY, MA Y I
Orchestra Concert.........................................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
MONDAY, MAY 5
Miscellaneous Recital.................................................8:30. Arts Theater
TUESDAY, MAY G
Song Recital................................................................8:30, Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, MAY 7
TennisCarnegie-Bucknell..................................3:00. Carnegie Courts
Chamber Music Recital...............................................8 :30, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, MAY 8
Song Recital...............................................................S:30, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 9
TennisCarnegie-Allegheny................................3:00, Carnegie Courts
Piano Recital...............................................................8:30, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, MAY 10 
Miscellaneous Recital..............................................S:30, Arts Theater
CLASS OFFICE 
NOMINATIONS 
FOR NEXT YEAR
Carnegie Musical Club Quartet
Exceptionally Large Number 
Nominated by Classes of 
Arts, Industries and En
gineering Schools
ELECTIONS ARE TODAY
A lint of nomination for next 
year' clanBOH in tho College of Fine 
Art, Industrie, and Engineering U 
published below:
Ind. Senior Claso.
PresidentM. D. Kallfelz, A. S. An
drew, II. A. Weldell, P. M. McGee, O. 
M, 'Carl, A. E. Melior. 
SecretaryA, W. Bahr, K. C. Korn 
man, Pt C. Hoennlger.
TreasurerJ. E. Smith, It.: E. 
Hughe, P. T. Phelps, J. C. Good.
Industries SenateD. K. Mims, M. 
A. Donahue, J. E. Smith, A E. Melior. 
J. C. Good, It. W. Bankler, J. A. Bar
ber, E, L. Smith, K. C. Kormnan.
Ind. Jr. Class.
PresidentRay Gill, .Toe Crlstoff, 
Rowley, Sandberg, Boll, Knappenberger.
Secretary  Hawke, Sanner, Gil 
Reed, Thomas.
Treasurer  Cranlcshaw,. Coulter, 
Noble.
Senate Rep*.  Hawke, Thomas, 
Moessner.
Senate Trees.Murphy, Kelafant, 
Bon KristofT, D. V. Beede.
Tl\istli BoardCranlcshaw, Each, 
Murphy, Rowley, Science Sophs,
Pres.P. W. Walters, Stroudt, 
Flowers, Escher, Pummer, Ewing.
Troas.  Bridges, Patton, Pugh, 
Lohr, Shepperd.
Sec.Ray Peck, Davidson, Medert, 
Wessenaurer, Bowser, Balia.
Son. Rep.  P. Swale, Brastow, 
Baum.
ThistleDavidson.
Ind. Sophs.
Pres.Tillbrook, Udd, Forbes, Van 
Vochten.
Treas.-*-Mitchell, Burgert, Lynch, 
W. Dixon.
Sec.Dodge, Craft, Lacoclc.
'Sen. Rep.  McWilliams, Parker, 
Chess, R. IT. Snyder.
Thistle BoardMitchell.
Athletic CouncilJ. E. Crlstoff, D. 
V. Boede, Gilbert Reed, Howard Wertenberger, 1-1. E. Dykeman.
Arts Juniors.
At the recent meeting of the Sophomoro class of the, College of Fine 
Arts, the following nominations for 
officers of tho Junior class were 
made:
Pres.L. Yoder, M. Goodwin, H. 
Wagoner, C. Lackey.
Vice Pres.Helen Emerson, Elea
nor Campbell.
Sec.Floss .Tones, Dot Purnell, Hel
en White.
Ti'oas,R. Winters, H, Wagoner, 
R. TTarkless.
Senate--GirlsI-Ieion Emerson, Mid 
Semans, Betty Matter, Phoebe Hen
ning.
BoysIC, Fulmer, C. Bassett, J. Gilbort.
Arts Sophs.
Pres.W. Lynch, It. Bulllnger, W. 
Loolcnvd, F. Colle, D. Frazier.
Vico Pros.-Grace Glennon.
Troas. W. Scheldt, McHuan, S. 
Brown.
Council RepresentativeMenW.
Lockwood, It. Kurtz, E. Eborman, J.
I llggonbol.hum.
GirlsElizabeth MeTaggart, Imolda Rlnkenburgor.
Thistle Hoard .1. Carr, S. Brown.
Solonco Seniors.
President...Joe Schubert, Dan Gard
ner, Jerry Slye, P. M. McClelland, C. 
M. James.
Treasurer I'Yed Smith, Jos, 'Stein, 
F. M. McClelland.
Secretary -E. Frazier, J. Bright.
SenateII. N. Smith, Phil Rosabach, U. Rlegolmolor, A. Stelgler.
Student Council0. IT. .lames, B. 
Bier.
Sclcnce Juniors.
Pres.J. ltaddin, P. Bowron, F 
Cook, C. E. West.
Sec.V. B. Smith, D. Gaylor, 
Seamen, E. Krebs, Carson.
Treas.C. Proctor, F. Wagner, D. 
Cromer, J. Ward.
Treas. Science SenateD. Kramei*, 
J. OConnor, J. A. Cooke. W. E. West.
Rep. Thistle BoardJ. Raddin, IT. 
Strong, F. O. Loveland.
Rep. Science Senate.
J. Harris, J. Ward, F. O. Loveland, 
F, K. Wagner.
Science Sophs.
Science.
PresidentF. W. Walters, S'trondt, 
Flowers, Escher, Plummer, Smith.
TreasurerBridges, Patton, Pugh, 
R. H. Lohr, L. Shepperd, Ray, 
Vaughn.
SecretaryPeck, Ray, Davidson, 
Medert, Weisenauer, Baum, Bowser, 
Braun, Cooper, Shaub.
Senate Rep.F. Swale, Braston, 
Maurer, Zimmerman, L. Himes.
Thistle BoardDavidson.
Industries.
PresidentTilbroolc, Udd, Forbes, 
Van Vechten.
Treasurer  Mitchell, Burgert, 
Dixon, Lynch.
SecretaryDodge, Craft, Lacock.
Senate Rep.Turner, McWilliams, 
Parker, Chess, R. 11. Snyder.
Thistle BoardMitchell, Marshall.
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
no unnecessary cruelly! When the 
objective is obtained, tho light should 
bo over, so Plobes, hang on to your 
objoetlve, and Sophomores, go after 
it.
School is nearing Its close. In a 
month youre plebeian and Sopliomoredom will bo ovor. Dont let it 
go by without some excitement, some
thing adventurous and rash to look 
back upon and glow ovor, after you 
have become dignified and staid men, 
with wealth and gout!
W.
J.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
MRS. ANNA F. PHILPUT! Mrs. Philput has watched with
  i great interest the advancement of
Several of the members on the; the school throughout its various
staff of the school at the present j stages. After the first building was 
time have been with Carnegie Tecl, ; completed Mrs. Philput did general . I office work for all the departments,since its founding, in 1905. and have Later on sho 1)ecame connected wlth 
remained faithfully since that time. the Margaret Morrison division and. 
Of this number there is only one I .v)]eI1 tiie building was erected for 
woman who has stayed to watch the , th|s [lh.lsioni Mrs_ Phllput Kas 
growth of ^the school during its en-1 pjacecj there. She has held the position of Registrar of the Margaret
George Le Baron, Jack Frost, George Dulin and Tubbs" Goughner. 
"Cal Lundquist, accompanist.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
The band is, perhaps, one of the 
moBl useful and Important and least 
appreciated organization on the cam
pus. For football games, basketball 
games or on any other occasion, when 
pep and school spirit are needed, the 
band reigns supreme. And for con
cert work, while that is not its best 
line, the band lias always put out a 
presentable program.
It is needless to enumerate all the 
values that a band may have to 
the college, for they aro apparent to 
those who consider it at all. Its 
greatest value, next to producing 
school spirit and enthusiasm, is the 
advertisement it gives the Institu
tion. But, for the right kind of ad 
vertisement, the band must not only 
have a good appearance, but it must 
also be able to produce good music. 
The Kilties take care of the appear
ance and, in order that good music 
be produced, the best musical talent 
in school must be gathered together 
and regular rehearsals be held. We 
have some excellent talent in school, 
but It cant be held together. Each 
year, at the beginning of school, en
thusiasm runs high, and the pros
pects for the band look good. Every
one comes out to rehearsal, and 'the 
future looks brilliant. By Christmas 
time tlio enthusiasm lias subsided 
somewhat and, by tho end of the first 
semester, only about half the former 
members show up for rehearsal. This,
of course, destroys all chances of hav
ing a really creditable concert, and 
takes the spirit out of those faithful 
ones who attend practice regularly. 
It is the same story every 'year, and 
will be each succeeding year, unless 
some radical change is made.
Wherein lies the trouble, and what 
might be done to change these con
ditions? It is very evident that there 
is some lack of incentive to the 
musicians, or they would stick with 
the band. Other organizations on the 
campus do not have the same 
trouble to the same degree.
The whole trouble lies in the fact 
that there is a lack of incentive, due 
to the general attitude of the student 
body towards the band and to the 
lack of proper reward for faithful 
service of its members. The activi
ties key is given for the band as for 
other campus activities, but this is 
not enough, for an activities key can 
be earned through some other ac
tivity with much less effort and time 
spent. . In many colleges throughout 
the country a certain amount is de
ducted from the tuition for band 
members. This makes it worth while, 
financially, for one to get into the 
band. Attendance at rehearsal is 
compulsory, and there is some real 
competition to hold down the differ
ent positions. Is this not a practical f 
plan to try out at Carnegie? The 
band is worth it.
tire life. This woman is Mrs. Anna [ 
F. Philput, lie present Secretarw of 
the Margaret Morrison College.
Mrs. Philput was Mr. Hammerschlags secretary way back in 1903, 
at the time when offices were main
tained downtown for the purpose of 
planning the courses for the school.
Morrison College, was at one time 
the librarian of the Arts Library, and 
is now Secretary of the Margaret 
Morrison College.
Mrs. Philput has been with the 
school for twenty years, a record of 
which to be proud. She has alwaysiui i-iic otuuui. j >vnji;u iu ue jjiuuu. one nas always 
The chief work of the staff at this I been a great friend of the students,
time; while the buildings were being 
erected, was to get instructors for 
the school and to interest students 
in coming to Carnegie. The latter 
was done, Mrs. Philput says, by 
lecturing in the high schools in and 
near Pittsburgh, and having the stu
dents sign applications for various 
courses. A great many signatures 
were obtained in this way, in fact 
many times the number of students
and regrets that the school has 
grown so large that she cannot be
come a personal friend of all the 
students, as was possible in the 
early days. She knows and is known, 
however, by all the Maggie Murphs, 
and is a very good friend of them all. 
When the girls need advice Mrs. Phil
put is always readp to help them. 
She has a very charming personality, 
is quiet and reserved in her manner,
who actually entered with the first but is always glad to welcome anyclass. | one.
Peregrinations
FIDELIA.
Music Dept, to Honor 
Music Week, May 4-10
Symphony Orchestra to Ap
pear at Music Hall
One of the most attractive features 
In the observance of National Music 
Week, May 4-10, in Pittsburgh, will 
bo the recitals of the students of the 
Music Department of Carnegie.
On Sunday evening, May 4, tho 
Symphony Orchostrn makes it.H only 
formal uppoaranoo of the yoar at Car
negie Music Hall. The program fea
tures Tsohulkowskys Pathotlquo 
Symphony.
There will ho student recitals on 
tho romaInlng nights of the week in 
tho Arts Theater.
National Music Week Is an insti
tution which, according, to President 
Coolldgo, honorary chairman, "fosters 
tho cultivation of a national taste for 
music."
Carnegie is helping Pittsburgh to 
do her share in this constructive 
work.
The recitals as announced are:
Sunday, May 4Symphony Concert, 
Music Hall.
Monday, May 5Miscellaneous Re
cital, Arts Theater.
Tuesday, May GSong Recital, Arts 
Theater.
Wednesday, May 7Cliambei1 Music 
Recital, Arts Theater.
Thursday, May SSong Recital. 
Arts Theater.
Friday, May i)Piano Recital, Arts 
Theater.
Saturday, May 10Miscellaneous 
Recital, Arts Theater.
Tickets for admission will be re
quired for the Orchestra Concert on 
May 4', and may be obtained by send
ing a self-addressed, stamped envel
ope to the theater, t College of Fine 
Arts. No tickets will lie required for 
the other recitals.
PUBLIC VISITS SCHOOL
ON EXHIBITION NIGHT
NEWMAN CLUB BALL DATE
SET FOR' THURSDAY, MAY 1
The Newman Club will hold its an
nual Formal Dance at the Duquesne 
Council House on Thursday, May I. 
The committee has been working on 
the arrangements for the past three 
weeks, and plans announced this far 
forecast the most successful Formal 
tho club has ever held.
The Collegiate Imps appear to be 
the logical orchestra selection, and 
they will probably provide the music 
that evening. The hall is to be 
decorated in purple and gold, the 
club colors. Supper will be served 
about midnight. The assessment is 
six dollars.
By Edwin Balmer. Todd, Meade & 
Company, New York.
Fidelia is a disappointing novel 
of the younger generation; disap
pointing because its rather powerful 
theme is immeasurably weakened by 
inadequate treatment. Its logical 
ame is not "Fidelia, but David, 
for Fidelia is merely one of several 
forces whose actions on David con
stitute the story.
The son of a somewhat bigoted 
anchorite goes to college and dis
covers that his ability and inclina
tion are not for the pulpit of his 
father; falls in love and discovers 
the unreality of his fathers ascetic 
ideal of marriage. The ensuing strug
gle between David's new thoughts 
and sensations and the high-minded 
impractical stoicism of his earlier 
youth is fit subject for a novel in 
itself. Influenced by his love, first 
of his father, then of Alice, the 
sweet, sweet girl to whom lie is en
gaged; thinking at one minute of his 
fathers heart-felt ambition that he 
become a preacher of the Gospel, 
then of his own delight and ability 
in salesmanship; swept by alternate 
floods of desire and revulsion, surely 
David might have become a famous 
figurewith proper handling.
The author was not big enough for 
Ills book, however. He hints at this 
struggle of David's, and goes on 
goes on to Fidelia. With the intro
duction of this given beauty, any 
previous strength of the book is lost. 
It degenerates into a recital of im
probable circumstances and disagree
able situations in which the very un
convincing characters ignore con
sistency and logic, moving slowly
Y. W. SEEKS CONTRIBUTIONS 
FOR BAKE SALE SATURDAY
The Y. Wt iC. A, wild hold a. bake 
sale on gaturday, May 3, at the 
Pittsburgh Market to raise money 
to meet this years budget.
The Y. W. has undertaken a rather 
extensive program tills year and 
funds are needed to completely carry 
out the plans.
In order that a bake sale be suc
cessful it is necessary to have not 
only calces, cookies, rolls, etc., but 
it must have the active co-operat'ion 
of all the girls in Carnegie.
Everyone is urged to bring her 
contribution to Margaret Morrison 
on Friday or to the Pittsburgh Mar
ket early Saturday morning.
BHARAT ASSOCIATION
TO HOLD MEETING SATURDAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
tion of the crowd a's did Langley 
Labratory with its Kiltie Band 
and motion pictures of. the football 
games of the past season.
As usual the College of Fine 
Arts held attention with musical re
citals, scenes from plays, designing 
and sculpturing, while the Colleges 
of Industries and Engineering es
pecially word magnots for men ap
preciating mechanical ability.
Margaret Morrison exhibited its 
deparimental work, club activities 
In social work, tho model gowns of 
the clothes shop, oitico training and 
microscopic work of the Science di
vision.
Praise and appreciation were ex
pressed on every sid6 of the ad
vantages at Carnegie and ,of tho 
opportunity presented to the public 
for knowledbe of the efficient tech
nical training offered here.
The Bharat Association of the Hin
dus in Pittsburgh willhold a meeting 
in the Industries Club Room, Satur
day, May 3, at S:15 p. m.
An exceptionally good speaker has 
been .secured for this meeting. Dr. 
N. A. Clevan of the University of 
Pittsburgh, will talk on the American 
Constitution. Dr. Clevan is an inter
esting man and well acquainted with 
the subject of his talk.
Every man of the Association is ex
pected to attend this meeting, for he 
will miss one of the best programs of 
the 3rear if he doesnt.
DELTA PHI DELTA CHANGES
ITS PRESENT LOCATION
After May 1st the Delta Phi Delta 
Fraternity will change its location 
from 150 to 356 North Craig street, 
two blocks from its former location!
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
\
MUSICAL CLUBS IN TOP
FORM FOR CONCERT
(Contlnuod From Page One.)
elude an act featuring Sunny Rentz, 
Ohio Newman and the Collegiate 
Imps. The quartet will also bo on 
deck prepared to make its best 
showing ot the season. Steve 
Broudy will have his musical saw' 
ready to broadcast the latest in pop
ular and jazz music, and show peo
ple that everyone has an orchestra 
in the woodshed.- attic, or cellar, 
Just to Be Different ' depending on where the spare tools 
Do people always disagree because j are kept, 
tliey are really of opposite views or ;
because they are contrary? ' ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
and stolidly through their supposed
ly dramatic lives, until at last an un
satisfactory conclusion brings relief 
to the dutiful reader who has man
aged to reach the last words.
CLAN INVITES SENIORS
TO WEEKLY LUNCHEONS
The attention of the Senior Class 
is called to the weekly luncheons, 
which are being held every Friday 
noon at the Hotel Henry by the 
Pittsburgh Clan. These luncheons 
were started in April, in accordance 
with the desire of many Carnegie 
Tech Alumni who are employed in 
the downtown office district, and who 
were anxious for a chance to meet 
and eatwith their old classmates, at 
least once a week. The luncheons 
have been very successful, and they 
will, undoubtedly, become a tradition 
at Carnegie. The affair is quite in
formal, there being no speeches or / 
program of entertainment. Luncheon 
will be served to anyone between 
12:15 and 1:00 p. m. The regular 
plate luncheon is served at 75 cents.
The alumni and the officers of the 
Pittsburgh Clan wish to extend to 
the members of the Senior Class a 
most cordial invitation to attend to 
Friday noon luncheons whenever they 
happen to be downtown on Friday. 
They are assured of a good lunch 
and a warm welcome, as well as a 
very interesting time.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLES BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
business building
T
h
2
r<
^HE selling of commodities is fundamental in 
every business, and selling life insurance 
affords the maximum of satisfaction and 
remuneration. For the life insurance sales
man is a business builder and finds innumerable ways 
to serve the community and make himself indispen
sable in the conduct of modern affairs.
The life insurance salesman is not only a business builder but 
he is in business for himself, creating a competence permanent 
and continuous. It is the best paid work for those who are 
ambitious and willing to work, and who have the character 
and stamina necessary to stamp their individuality upon the 
business and on their community.
The traditions and practices of the IVNC LACSVSD are such 
that the college graduate can take a peculiar pride in repre
senting this company. You are liable to remain in the busi
ness you enter on leaving college. Before making a definite 
decision inquire into life insurance as a career. Write,"Agency 
Department.
&
j1fe Insurance Company^
PE RPMAPNT WVMMVIGCMOAAM 
Sixty-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
Million Dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives
Youve often heard how ageing in wood im
proves fine wines. Now listen to this: Thebest 
Kentucky Burley Tobacco (the same as fine 
wines) loses every bit of its harshness and 
rawness when it is aged in "wood.
Velvet Tobacco is Kentuckys best Burley, 
aged in wood.
Liggett & Myeixs Tobacco YVE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
SPRING FOOTBALL MANYREQUSTT NYAAMT 
PRACTICE STARTS TOURNAMENT ARRANGEDOn the Plaid Screen
Wadell and Marks Drill New 
Squad in Fundamentals; 
Freshmen Wanted
Spring football practice was start
ed last Tuesday with forty-five candi
dates reporting.
Calisthenics and a few laps around 
the track constituted the major part 
of the workout for the -first few days. 
The remainder of the week was spent 
in passing, kicking and falling on the 
ball, with Bob Wadell and Doc Marks 
giving a great deal of time to the 
men, drilling the men the fundamen
tals of the game so that next fall 
they can concentrate on signal prac
tice and other more important train
ing.
Much time and consideration will 
be needed in picking a new backfield 
for the team. Newman will be the 
only regular back, but with Hamilton, 
a good passer and kicker, Bastian and 
Cristoff and Wertenberger and also 
a few men from the Freshman team 
to pick from, it is almost certain the 
Plaid will have a fast backfield.
With the loss of Comfort, Zelt and 
Taylor the line will require much at
tention to find men who can -fill the 
places of these three veterans. Beede 
and Bandby will be choice men for 
the center position, and with Cass, 
Yoder, Hable, Anderson and Gutherie 
to fill the guard and tackle positions, 
things look bright for a strong and 
heavy line. The work of Mefort and 
Kristoff last fall will probably slate 
them for the end positions. Donahue 
has been out for spring practice and 
his speed will help the backfield con
siderable next fall.
Many of the Freshmen are now out 
and among those showing up are 
Hamilton, Francis, and Hughes. Many 
other men are doing good work. A 
list of those now out follows:
Mohrman, Beede, Donahue, Nern, 
Cass, West, Cook, Smit, Nimick, J. 
Reed, Allen, Esche, Matych, Werten
berger, Gutherie, Mamby, Nobel, Ham
ilton, Weiss, Livenison, Warren, 
Hauck, Hill, Yoder, Francis, Hughes, 
Eidemiller, Middleton. Cochran, Bilskie, Powerie, Law, Dixon, Steffy, Mey
ers, Battaglia, Cupp, VanVecliten, 
Hernandez, Keefe, Aitkenhead, and 
Grant.
A new activity in the form of an 
inter-clas's tennis tournament has re
cently been created and is rapidly 
I gaining strength on the Carnegie 
| Campus. This activity was estab
lished with the idea of making it an 
| annual affair, and needs only the sup| port of the student body to make it 
such.
I The primary Idea or such a tournaI ment is to promote an increase of in| ter-class rivalry and competition. The 
| minor reasons were to furnish an opj portunity for those not out for an 
I activity to get in one, and also to 
| show if possible material for the var| sity tennis team.
| A representative has been appoint
ed from each class in the three 
schools, who will conduct an elimina
tion tournament among the members 
of his class to determine the two or 
three best men, who will) in turn, 
play the best team fromthe other 
classes to decide the champion. The 
inter-class tournament will start on 
Fridas', May i), and the  final games 
will be played sometime during Cam
pus Week. The winner will be pre
sented with a suitably engraved pla
card which will be kept in the trophy 
case of the Athletic Club.. A cup may 
also be offered as an additional award 
in the future.
Students wishing to try out for 
their class team should give their 
names to their class representatives 
and then play off their games in the 
elimination series as soon as posted. 
As many as possible are urged to try 
out as it is a chance to play some 
good games against good men, and 
may also lead to a berth on the "var
sity squad. Only with the full sup
port of the various classes can this 
tournament be a success, and be able 
to continue ns a permanent annual 
inter-class contest.
E. C. FRAZIER
LR SB UYBH8HY D.U8D.
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 oclock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest j,o students.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.r 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
Students and professional men de
siring to get a portable typewriter 
should not fail to see the Reming
ton with standard keyboard at Sing 
er Pen and Gift Shopsold on in. 
stallments if preferred.
WHAT HO! LETS GOI
Baseball is here!
Beings its here, what you goin to do with it?
Why dont you make it liard:meanin the question? The answer to that 
one is too simple to waste words upon.
Heres the answer: Beins its here, were gonna enjoy it!
And thats that!
SPEAKING OF WINNING STREAKS,
can you realize that we have TWO straight victories to our credit? Not so 
worse! All of which brings to mind the fact that back yonder in the past 
not so many years at that eitherCarnegie won EIGHTEEN consecutive 
games. Of course this included Freshman and Varsity basket ball, tennis 
and baseball. Still, with a start of two consecutive victories in baseball, 
and a season of Freshman and Varsity schedules in baseball, track and tennis 
to work upon, surely we ought to come pretty close to that mark. What 
say ye athletes! Start rolling-up them victories!
THE THIRD CONSECUTIVE VICTORY
Baseball! Thursday, May 1, Edgar Thompson diamond. Carnegie Tech 
vs. Pitt! Everybody out! Take the necessary carwatch bulletin boards to 
find outwhat they aredrag a girlbring cashfurthermore bring all the 
lung power you happen to own. 'cause were all going out there to yell like 
h for Dear Old Tech, to win that third consecutive victory. Now, fel
low students, you know your duty, so DO IT! Hear?
SPEAKING OF THE BASEBALL TEAM
IT IS GOOD . Its record proves that. Out of three games* played, all on 
foreign territory, two were won, and one tied. Both West Virginia University 
and West Virginia Wesleyan fell victims to Coach A1 Irwins proteges of 
the diamond. Irwin is due congratulations galore for his teams showing, es
pecially since this is the first baseball team Carnegie has had since 15)22. 
The team has pretty good hitting strength, fielding ability and good batteries. 
But, best of all, they have the spiritthat good old Carnegie Tech spirit and 
fight that knows not the word die.
May the tennis and track teams boast of the same. They will, too 
of that we have absolute faith.
RELAY RAMBLINGS
The smoothness with which the Penn relay events are run off is admira
ble. One could set his watch by the starting gun of any race, so close to 
schedule were the events disposed of.
We dont know whether Skinny Humberts nickname Is derived from the 
condition of his anatomy or from a propensity to take advantage of anothers 
position. Here's one that actually happened before the race:
Bert MunhallBoys, if you win, I'll get to go to the Olympics.
SkinnyLets put it this way, Bert: How much is it worth to you to
go to Paris?
You have tried the REST 
Now try the BEST.
Some to the
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning.; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswriters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo,' N. Y.
WEBBI Chew it after 
every meal
If stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
Kt makes your 
food do yon more 
good. Note bow 
ft relieves that stuffy feeling 
after hearty eating.
^Whitens teetb, 
sweetens 
breath and 
i Its tlie goody
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................5300,000.00
Surplus.....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
I INSURANCE
with
SERVICE
for the same price
Jos. P. Fisher, Jr.
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
Get Extra Credits at Home
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modem Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.
95 ELLIS HALLFOY Uniberitp of Cfjicago
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
The Philadelphia Clan deserves special mention for the treatment they 
accorded the boys during their stay. The members of the team appreciated 
it greatly.
Trainer Munhall has a new version of the popular melodrama, Three 
Days. Ask him to spill it; the Tartan has to be sent through the malls.
Coach Halferty was the personification of confidence before the race. 
Were mighty glad he was right about the matter.
This scene is laid in the dining room. Jimmy and Kills sitting opposite 
each other. Ellis endures It as long as possible, then asks: Why are'you
smiling at me, Jimmy?
Jimmy comes to with start: Gosh, Ellis, I was smiling right past you!
The hotel environment was very delightful. The establishment was 
filled with young ladies in town to attend a University dance.
Coach Halferty and Bert Munhall sat at opposite oiuls of tho table so 
that Danny Kramer hadnt a chance of absorbing more than his share of 
eatables.
The comparative ages of Munhall and Halferty were being dlHcussod. 
Skinny says: Youre only 22. aren't you, Bert? Around the calf, yos!
We had a hard time getting anything on Bob Bier; but finally ho prepared 
his own trap and jumped right into it. His damning confession was this: 
"If there's anything I like better than milk, Its more milk!,
George Dyke says he heard cheers for Carnegie Tech all the way around 
the course._____________________________________________________________________________
Relay Team Again IMRUTP SNGUYNMQT SRY
Wins at Penn MeetNOW AT THEIR HEIGHT
Robertson, Humbert. [Dyke 
and Kramer lead field in 
Technical division
Again the goddess of victory has 
chosen to smile upon the wearers of 
the Plaid. For three years now she 
has smiled that same smile, only to 
the Tartans it is beginning to havo 
all the characteristics of a hearty 
laugh. Running in splendid form, 
with determination to win stamped 
on their faces, four Carnegie Tech 
runners brought glory a-plenty to 
their Alma Mater by winning the 
championship of the technical schools 
in the mile relay event for the third 
successive time.
The faces of Jimmy Robertson, 
Skinny Humbert, George Dyke and 
Danny Kramer are now adorned with 
smiles not caused entirely by tho ap
proach of spring. Much of tho permanence of these smiles can be traced 
to a handsome gold Elgin nesting in 
the pocket of each of the four.
The race was a thriller, with tho 
result in doubt much of the way. The 
Tartans tore around the distance in 
the time of 3 min. 32 4/5 sec., a hot
ter mark than was made in many of 
the other college relays. Starting 
third from the pole, Jimmy Robertson 
flashed past his rivals and had gained 
the inside position bofore rounding 
the first turn. Finishing with a lead 
of three yards, he handed the baton 
to Humbert, who was passod by a 
speedy Rensselaer man, but finished 
a close second.
The next Rensselaer man held tho 
advantage gained by Ills teammato. 
Dyke, running in socond place, was 
threatened by the Worcester repre
sentative, but by the end of the lap 
had disposed of this danger and had 
crept up slightly on the loader.
To Kramer, then, was passed the 
responsibility of again carrying Car
negie's colors to tho front. Running 
In good form, ho passod the runner 
from tho Troy school, and on the 
home stretch gained enough yardage 
to assuro a comfortablo victory, an
other bannor for the trophy case, and 
four shining gold watches for tho run
ners.
Besides tho four men who ran for 
Carnegie, tho following also made 
tho trip: Coach Guy Iliilforty; 11.
Bier, substitute; Bert Munhall, train
er, and a lot of things like that; Man
ager Ellis Robertson.
llowdy Dykomun, who had boon ex
pected to add to his achievements at 
the Relays, was recovering from Ill
ness and did not muko tho trip. The 
team was entortalned at dlnnor Sat
urday night, by tho Philadelphia Clan, 
which provided an oxcollont meal and 
an onjoyablo ovonlng for tho athletes.
Girls athletics are now in full 
j swing. What with Bowling, SwimI ming, Volley Ball, Baseball and Ton| nls, ono does not have to seek far for 
a means of expendingthe surplus 
energy which spring endows her with.
Swimming class is being held every 
Monday at 4 p. m. at. 'Schenley High 
po.ol. The swimming meet is sched
uled for May 26tli.
I Although Volley Ball practice has 
been discontinued a championship 
team will be chosen to play tho alumI line team on Saturday afternoon of 
Campus Week. The Alumnae feel 
very confident, as to the outcome so 
it is up to the girls to give them 
something in the way of a surprise.
The tennis courts are rapidly as
suming shape, so that practice may 
begin at once. The winner of the 
girls singles will have her name in
scribed on the cup which is given 
only to the girl who tyas her name 
inscribed on it three successive years.
The Bowling Tournament starts 
this afternoon at the IC. of C. I-Iall 
and will be finished Thursday after
noon.
Baseball practice is being held 
daily and this is proving to be by far 
the most popular sport, of tho yoar. 
Class teams will be chosen and will 
play for the championship next week.
SPRING SPORT SCHEDULE
Keep for your information
BaseballVarsity. Track-r-Varsity. TennisVarsity.
r> .  Manager.................Ellis Robertson Manager..........................1^- E. MUVHSNManager....................D. A. bclioeiice Gaptaln.............James A. Robortson Acting Captain..............II. N. Smith
Captain.............................C. J. Cappe Coach...........................Guy Halferty Coach................................A. I'1. Flnlc
Coach...............................A. C. Irwin TrackInterscholastic. TennlnFreshmen.
, _ , Manager...................H. F. ltossbach Manager......................II. F. Simpson
Baseball Freshman. Track-Freshmnn. Coach.....................................AK. Kink
Manager.......................G. B. Rogers Manager ...................Enos .JohnAton Golf.
Coach...........................Don B. Blyth Coach ........................ Guy Halferty Captain to bo elected by team.
Home baseball games will be played at Homewood City Playgrouds, Hamilton and Lang avenues. Take 
car No. 76.Home track events will bo held in the Carnegie Bowl on Campus.
Home tennis matches will be held on Carnegie Tech Courts on Campus.
Home golf matches will be played at the Pittsburgh Field Club.
Schedules are as follows:
Tuesday, April 15 Friday, May 9 Saturday. May 17
Varsity Baseball Varsity Baseball. Varsity Tennis
West Virginia Wesleyari at BuckUniversity of Delaware at NewAlumni, Here (A. M.)
liannon, W. Va. ark, Del. Monday, May 19
Wednesday April 16 Freshman Baseball Varsity Golf
Varsity Baseball  Indiana Normal. Here Washington & Jefferson College,
West Virginia Wesleyan at BuckVarsity Tennis Here.
hannon, W. Va. Allegheny College, Here Tuesday, May 20th
. ,   i o Freshman Tennis Vnrmtv Tfciqohnll
varsltv BasrtaU1 P Westmont High School, Here ^ove Cl^ Collbge at GroveVarsity uaseDau Freshman Track rltv p.
^eantown W University Indiana Normal, Here nnlB
Friday April 18 Saturday, May 10 Crafton High School at Cratton,
rsitv Baseball Varsity Baseball Pa.
West Virginia University at MorGettysburg College at GettysWednesday, May 21
zantown W Va burg. Pa. Varsity TennlH
'  Varsity Track University of Pittsburgh at PittFriday. April 24 Geneva College. Here
Varsity Baseball Track 1r ,, I , ,,y' y
Bucknell University, Here Eighth Annual Interscliolastic ,irs y  Clt Col]eBe Here
Thursday, May 1 Track Meet ^5 .. 
Varsity Baseball Varsity Tennis Friday, May 23
University of Pittsburgh at BradWest Virginia University, Here Freshman Baseball
dock, Pa. Freshman Tennis Penn State Freshman (Pending)
tr mow 9 Wilkinsburg High School at Wilat btate College, Pa.
<. -? t?  kinsburg, Pa. * Saturday, May 24Varsity Baseball Varsity Track
Juniata College, Here Monday, May 12 University of Pittsburgh InterFreshman Baseball at Shadyside Varsity Colt allegiate at Schenley Ova
Academy. University of Pittsburgh, Here varsity TenniB
Varsity Tennis r, n Monday, May 13 Thiel College at Greenville, Pa.Washington & Jefferson College Freshman Basen Varfllty aolf
at wasnington. i a. University of Pittsburgh, PendWashington & Jefferson at WashSCl'001 at Y0UEaiCk P" Freshman0 Baseballtown, ui Westmont High School at JohnsBellefonte Academy (Pending)
Saturday, May 3 town, Pa. at Bellefonte, Pa,
Varsity Tennis Freshman Track
West Virginia University at MorWednesday, May 11 University or Pittsburgh Intergantown. W. Va. Tint?,,, p mu i ,.,.i RR collegiate at Schenley Oval.Freshman Tennis University of Pittsburgh, Here
Wilkinsburg High School. HoVe Varsity Tennis Monday, May 6
Varsitv Track Washington & Jefferson College, Varsity GolfVarsity Tradc^ ^ ^ ore. ^Uiilviirslt^o^ Pittsburg,, at Pitt
Tuesday, May 6 Thursday, May 16 University of Pittsburgh at Pitt
Freshma Baseball /./. z Varsity Baseball Tucnday, May 27
Bellevue High School at BelleSt. Donaventure College, Here Varsity Baseball 
vue, Pa. Varsity Tennis Bothany College, Hero... University of Pittsburgh, Here ... . . ..Wednesday, May 7 VarqiiTr-.cir Wednesday, May 28
Varsity Tennis nnivoi-uiiv c rr. Freshman Baseball
Bucknell University, Here Fnjnhman Baseball Indiana Normal at Indiana, Pa.
Varsity Golf Knoxville High School at KnoxFriday, May 30Bucknell University, Here ville, Pa. Varsity Tennis
Thursday, May 8 Frehsman Tennis  Penn State College, Here.
Varsity Baseball University of Pittsburgh, Here Saturday, May 31
Juniata College at Huntingdon, Freshman Track Varsity Tennis
Pa. University of Pittsburgh, Here Colgate University, Here.
Freshman Baseball Men 
Work With New Coach
Many Men Answer First Call; 
Show Good Prospects
Baseball Is in the air! Everybody 
Is talking and thinking about our Na
tional pastime and tlio old familiar 
words, "Play Ball, have roachod tlio 
oars of many fans.
A call was made for candidates for 
tho Freshman team and about thirty 
handed tlioir names into. Mauugor 
Rogers. Rogers has not, as yot, anpounced tlio schedule, but II; Is known 
that tlio Plehos only play ono game 
at homo
Tho Freshmen aro fortunate In hnv. 
lug such a capable man as "Don" 
Blythe for coach. Ho Is a man with 
a pleasing personality and certainly 
knows Ills "stuff'' In baseball. He 
was a regular on the Penn State team 
for four years, and played with the 
Pittsburgh Collegians and othor oraok 
teams after leaving college.
Those who handed their names to 
Manager Rogers aro:
Inflolders: Horning, Bowser,
S'olmoldor, Blair, Foldntoln, Wurs> 
toinor, Voglit, Turnor, Maurer, Zim
merman, Shrlvor, Swlnoburg, and 
Plummer.
Outfiohlers: Dodge, Forbes, Ohalupa, Stroudt, IIIlls, Htonor.
Otifcch: Fry, Fornoy, Chon a
Hand,
Pitch: Harmon, Maurer, Escher,
Downer and Voglit.
When the Ad Man got nervous.
limit a I'ord: A child can run II:,
Shove II, yourselfEven I, uully, why 
not now?
Say It with MowersFor younger 
men.
Ivory soap...Theres a reason.Mo*
Cl III.
Compliments
ml
CARNEGIE vs. PITT 
IN BASEBALL THU.
Game to be Played on Braddoclc Diamond; Team in 
Excellent Shape
The undefeated baseball team rep
resenting the Tartans this yoar will 
lock horns with Pitts crack nine iu 
the flrs$ game of a three-game series 
on Thursday at. 15:00 p. m. daylight 
saving time. Tills colossal battle will 
bo staged at the Edgar Thompson 
Park in Braddock, considered the .fin
est baseball field in Western Pennsyl
vania with the exception of Forbes 
Field. ? The Braddock Held has been 
secured by the Pitt management, for 
the playing of all its big home gamos.
This will be the first meeting be
tween the two big schools of the city 
since 101!) when athletic relations 
were severed. Tho games in times 
past always were close and hard 
fought, and the series this year prom
ises to surpass all former ones. Ex
ceptionally keen rivalry of the most 
friendly kind exists between the two 
scrools In all rbanchos of sport since 
the resumption of athletic competition 
a yoar agothe football and basket
ball games during the past year botweon the two institutions were spir
ited affairs. At present the Sklbos 
hold a slight advantage over their 
rivals, and Pitt will strive hard to win 
in baseball.
It is not known definitely just how 
the Tartans will line up for this im
portant gnmo, but it is thought that 
the same team which faced West Vir
ginia Wesleyan and West Virginia 
University will oppose the Panthers 
at tho outset, though some now faces 
aro likely to be soon in the llnoup be
fore the game Is ovor. Cappcj will 
draw tho assignment to do tho pitch
ing. A last minute shift Is being con
templated by Coach Irwin. Newman 
might be shifted to third and Lynch 
to short, in the event that a capable 
man can bo found to cover first base. 
Christoffs Injurocl thumb 2D healing 
nicely, while Basl.ian Is showing signs 
of qfpntinuod Improvement, Dlffloy 
and Viable form a pair of first class 
catchors, and will uphold that depart
ment in the important gamos to come.
Tho Carnoglo boys are playing good 
bnsoball Just nowthey aro hitting 
woll and the pitching has boon good. 
However, Pitt looked lllto a million 
dollars last wook against Bucknell. 
which team they dofoatod 4-3 In a 
hard battle, Pitt Is well fortified In 
tho pitching department, and the 
port writers on the Pittsburgh pa
pers are of the opinion that PUt 
should have a championship year, Tho 
Tartans, however, aro In line thomsolvos for the championship, and aro 
working hard to make this a record 
year.
or
Skibo Inn
Dam an
"Do1 you roully think timi u 
1(011(1 IMMU'II ll()l|)M you lo ilotillin' workf"
Pythlns-
"I know II dot'll I Why, I'm 
ovoli n bln to ronil my own 
hunilwi'lliliifT. now, limi J'vo 
"I i' I'tod u nI o ir a DI X on 'u 
lSldorndol"
WKD,1S66
'Um mauler clmuwO /x-ncJr 
17 IiwiIhnil (li'iilrrn
Smiles i'iglit 
back at
_jrou!
in Later Life
Early habits arc enduring 
ones. Bogin now to acqulrc 
those of saving and accumu
lating money.
An account with the Mellon 
National Bank will give you 
a splendid start. Persistent 
savings will develop financial 
Independence. The experi
ence, to say nothing of the 
money itself, will In later life 
prove Invaluable to you.
Come In and talk It over.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbu^-^h, Pa.
YEW YO8K UYVE8SBY SD.OOL OL 8EBHLYG
Teaching
Service
The School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising Personnel
Advertising Training
Finance and Control 
Merchants are eager to secure trained men and women in the3e fields. 
Service Fellowships.
Certificate ..................................................................................................1 year
M. S. In Retailing...................................................................................2 years
Illustrated booklet on application. For further information write 
Dr. Norris A. Brisco, Director of New York University School of Re
tailing, J.00 Washington Square, Now York City.
Aiifhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1924
SALUMNI PAGES
The Course in Mechanical Engineering
By Profcooor W. Trlnko.
Tlio lnocbuulcttl engineer mukou 
tlio forces ol' nature ilo tlio work of 
men, Ho generates power from 
bnrniii)' fuel, or from railing water, 
Ho designs, produces and super
vises machinery to do that which, 
without maclilnory, would havo to 
bo done iby human hands, Ho does 
this service for all mankind, In* I 
eluding other ojn'glneerlng brunches! 
such as civil, 'electrical, metallurgic
al, chemical and mining onglneom 
Ho provldeB road building machin
ery, cement mixorB, bohitB an(P other 
machinery for tho civil engineer. Ho 
inakoa the power which tho electric
al onglneor trail N.N22EN and utilizes 
in motors and lamp. Ho builds and 
supervises tho maclilnory by meaiiB 
of which metallurgical and chemical 
pi'ocQBBOB are carried out on a com
mercial scale. He alBo furnishes the 
equipment by means of which tho 
mining engineer digs his shaft and 
tunnels mines, 2.V2NX3 and1 screens 
his cdul or ore. He also provides 
tho machinery or ventilating the 
mines and for keeping them Jreo 
from water.
Tho mechanical eiigineer does 
oven moro. Ho designs, builds and 
supervises tho machinery by means 
ol' which tho manifold articles of 
daily imago aro produced. Few peo
ple havo any idea of tho extent to 
which machinery influences our every 
day life. Take foodstuffs, for In
stance. The soil Is plowed and har
rowed by machinery. Tho seed In 
planted automatically, Tho Avheat is 
reaped, threshed, milled, sifted and 
bagged by machines. Dough is 
mixed1 and cut by machines and is 
automatically moved through bake 
ovens. Tho broad is then wrapped 
by maclilnory and Ib Anally delivered 
by automobile, which latter is an
other ploco of machinery.
This list gives at least a faint 
Conception ' pf*1 the Jmportiiinleo of 
maclilnory and ol! mechanical power 
in tho every day life of the individ
ual. Behind all this workB, almost 
unsoon by tho public, the mechanical 
onglnoor, ovor ready to dovise, lnilld 
. and operate now forms ol! machinery,
do YOU KNW? ] CAMPUS WEEK j do you recall? ]The Mathematics Course
to thereby cheapen tho articles ol! 
every day use and to shorten tho 
hours of labor.
Fit)m these factB follows tho con
clusion that the opportunities of the 
mechanical onglneor aro practically 
unlimited, provided,/ of course, that 
he keeps his eyes open and his 
mind altiit. *A poor engineer will 
pass through a machine shop and 
see rows of men drilling IioIob, one 
at a time, and let It go at that. A 
good1 engineer will immediately soe 
the possibilities of having one man 
drill all the holes at ono time by 
means of a multiple drill and a jig.
Other mechanical engineers see 
the opportunity, of building automo
biles whlcli run on loss gaBolino, or 
on tho cheaper fuels. Still others 
perceive the opportunity which lies 
in uBing higher steam pressure than 
are now used In the generation of 
eloctrlcal power. Still others grasp 
the opportunity offered by tho Intro
duction of better lubrication mothods In machinery, with Its resulting 
saving of power consumption.
Large opportunities are offered to 
mechanical engineers in supervision 
and maintenance of machinery. Con
cerns such as steel plants, cement 
mills, by-product eoko plants, bridge 
works and chemical plant are full 
of mechanical equipment which goes 
to rack and ruin unless properly 
cared for. In 3HS2. places the 
mechanical superintendent is of 
some importance. Tho greater the 
number of such plants the moro 
mechanical engineers aro needed. A 
large group of mechanical engineers 
enter sales work or managerial po
sitions.
It Is also significant that the largo 
electrical companies go ovor tho 
mechanical engineering graduates In 
the best technical schools and uni
versities with a fine tooth comb 
every year for the purposo of at
tracting promising mechanical 
glnoors Into their organization. 
They know that a vory largo part 
of the work of electrical companies 
Is purely mechanical engineering and 
requires men of that bent and train
ing.
: VERY POPULARThat Schenley Park Is just as in
viting as it was when you -went to
That Campus Week Is only fifteen J WITH ALUMNI
days away, and that It promises -to J 
bo bigger and better than ever be
fore?
That Spring football practice has 
been started, and that much new 
material has boon reporting?
That the baseball games with our 
neighbors on tho bill promises to be 
lively events? ,
That,the Tennis Courts are getting 
their Spring dressing, and will be in 
use soon?
hat considerable discussion has 
been aroused by the suggestion that 
the slogan "My Work Is In the Park 
be substituted for the present one 
during the Spring season?
By ProT. O. T. Geckeler. | The curriculum in the Sophomore 
The present day tendency toward year is mathematics (9), modern
The Library Course
By Dr. McLcod.
Tho Library Courso is glvon by tho 
Carnogl Instituto ol! Teohnolgy in 
copjunctlon wlth tho iCarnoglo Li
brary School, lloro al; tho Instituto 
is glvon a thi'oo yoar acadomlc 
ourso mado up of tho roqulrod gen
eral aludios subjeets and addltlonal 
courso ln lltoraturn, hlstory, eco* 
nomlofl, solology and modorn humiago. On tho eomplotlon ol' tiloso 
throo yoars ol! aeudomlo studio, tho 
ntudont ontora tho Library Bchool al; 
tho Oiimoglo Library l'or a yoar'n 
Intensivo Htudy ol! library work. On 
tho coni pial,Ion ol' thla fourtli yoar, 
tho ntudonl; Is glvon tho (logreo 
liaoholor ol? Bolonoo In Library 
Work by tho Oarnoglo instituto 
Toohnology,
Tho purpoito ol tho courso ln l;o 
llt young wdmon lor tho many 
klndn ol! library work whloh aro 
o(l)on lo trnJiUMl libraran, iTlio 
pvoi'oiinlon of libraran la lo many at* 
traoilvo. Tho domanti' la groa lo r 
tliiiu tho nupply, and tho (talarlos 
comparo favorable wlth salarlo of
Numerous Letters Reach the 
Office in Response to In
quiries  Suggestions for 
New Improvements
ALUMNI SHOULD ORDER SONG 
BOOKS BEFORE CAMPUS WEEK
Carnegie Alumni who have not as 
yet secured their copy of the Car
negie Song Book may enter reserva
tions for copies of the second edition 
by sending one dollar and ten cents 
per copy to the Carnegie Song Book 
Staff, Box (55, Carnegie Tech Postoffice, Pittsburgh, Pa.
The S'ong Book 'Staff will mail cop
ies of the Song Book to any desired 
address. All orders will be filled in 
the order of their acceptance. Inas
much as delivery of all Song Books 
must be made before the close of the 
current school Vear, alumni should 
enter their orders before Campus 
Week.
ACTIVITY INSIGNIA
AWARDED STUDENTS
trained young women, ln other pro
fessions, Students must not think 
that tho only kind1 of library work 
Is that which consists of stamping 
tho cards of tlioso who aro taking 
books from tho library, and soelng 
that fines aro collected. Tills work 
Is for the most part dono by un
trained girls, Tho tralnod librarian 
has a choleo of entering such tech
nical fields of library work as cata
loguing, ordering, chlldrofl's libra* 
clanships and llhrarianshlps .in spe
cial subjocts.
Tho academic part of tho Library 
Courso is under tho jurisdiction of 
tho English Department. Candidates 
who wish to on tor It should consult 
tho head ol! that department, but 
more Important than to consult 
with tho homi of tho English De
partment In to consult with tho DI' 
rector of the Library* School, who Is 
far boiler Informed about conditions 
of library work. Freshmen who plan 
to outer tho Library course aro ad
vised to see Miss Brotliorton, Direc
tor of tho Library School, bol'oro 
making doilnlto dlolnlon.
li. W. Lynn of tho Aetna Foundry 
& Machine Co., Warren, O., I. '21, 
was on tho campus, Monday. So 
was B. I. Glnsburg, 13. 23, who is 
with J. & L.
From Ohio we had It. W. Schlumpf 
dropping in for a friendly chat with 
the Alumni Secretary. Mr. Schlumpf 
is with a steel concern in Canton.
Mr. B. H. Work of Niagara Falls 
was also in. Ho is employed by tho 
Carborundum Company.
' The next day Mr. It. A. Essig was 
back on the old campus, and the last 
of tho registrants was Mr. Charles 
W. Gibbs, E, of Easton, Pa., who is 
Testing Engineer for the IngersollItand Company.
There lias been some talk on the 
Campus about an Alumnus Parade. It 
has been said that Alumni do not 
get an opportunity for taking real 
active part in the festivities, and 
that they would appreciate having a 
chance to perform.
The uncertainty comes from a 
doubt concerning tho munbor oi returned grade that would take part in 
tho parade.
Tho Alumni Luncheon Is to bo hold 
In tho now gym, which will bo en
tirely rollttod for tho occasion, Tho 
alumni secretary Is as busy as tho 
proverbial boo. What with 'commitGIRLS EVENTS TO HAVE
BIG PLACE CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.) 
Tech street and tho destination will 
bo there and back. There will bo a 
prize offered to the winner (she 
doesnt have to take it) tmd ono to 
tlio girls having the most original and 
striking costumes. ,
Four hours later, or, to be specific 
at 1 p. m., there will be a girls base
ball game, and a volley ball game and 
five hours niter that the girls ban
quet. The banquet will be held in 
Commons, and everyone can have his 
dinner for the inconsequential sum of 
one dollar and fifty cents. At the 
banquet, each class will have a song 
to sing, a song composed especially 
for the occasion.
And then, at the close of the feast
ing and revelry, jtho girls will come 
forth, tired but happy and forget their 
fatigue in the final dance of 1924 Cam
pus Week. At 8:15 on Saturday night 
the final frolic will begin and at its 
close, our glorious celebration week 
will be over for another year.
Did you men ever stop to Think 
what this school would bo without its 
girls?
seniors? You can imagine!!
It would pay you to talco a squint, 
at the letters in tho central story, it 
shows tho spirit, and tlio fool Ings con
nected with Campus Woolc in tho 
breasts of those who havo ovor boon 
hero for any of those event,. 
Wouldn't It pay you to make an In
too mootings, editors, luncheons and vestment, to Investigato
When Fatty, the Cop, was locked 
up in the Chemistry Laboratory? .
This affair happened when the presa clser unin or ilclenc0 ond induslanguage (S), physics (12), together
ent Imlutrles building wan the main tr-v produces a need for men well j witll eiectives (24.), during the first
building on the Campus. LVAAy wVM Prepared in mathematics and other! SBmegtc aml mOIGVNiIM (12) and
one of those civilians who wears a fundamental sciences for the work of
blue uniform with brass button's and Industrial research and for investicarries mace to play with. I w problems in engineering.
It seems that he had been bother
ing the boys every time they broke 
a rule of any kind. The boys were 
getting tired of his watchfulness, and
There is also a conviction on the 
part df many that the engineering 
student needs a broader course and 
more thorough training in the
THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Announces Two
Free Lectures on Christian Science
H .E8VEY-RHB.U8SB, DT ST RT, OL LOYDOYT EYGLHYD
0GF3GP VB RNG 3VAP, VB OGSRHPG9N.B VB RNG FVRNGP
CHURCH, THE FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST,
IN BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS Y
WOYDHY, WHY 5th, 12:15 (YOOY) YXOY B.EHBE8 
Joint Lecture
------and------ v
MONDAY, MAY 5th, 8:15 PT M. 
PURLD SD.OOL HUDBO8UW, .LLSDHLE HVEYUE, DO8WOYB j 
Under the Auspices of Third Church. */,
The Public is Cordially Invited to Attend Both Lectures. v
 Take Car at Third Avenue, Nos. 42 or 3S, to Dormont. *J*
(Continued From Page One.) 
nrust be made immediately inas
much as the insignia will be deliv
ered to their recipients by the man
agers of tho various activities short
ly after Campus Week.
The list is as follows:
STUDENT COUNCIL 
Gold Insignia.
T. N.1 Griggs, A. S. Borgerding, T. 
Barney, H. H, Dykoman, Blair Jessop, Francis McClymonds, James 
Robertson, C. N. Hollingsworth, Ellis 
Robertson,' Arthur Brace, Helen 
Johnston, Allison Lowstuter, F. M. 
Goro, S. E. Dyke, Mary I-Ieillg, W. 
II. Ryan.
Silver Insignia*
Bernice Rent/,, Milo Matter, V. S. 
Mollenauer, M. D. Kallfelz, O. B 
Newman, Mildred Moron, Catlierino 
Moron, Elizabeth Yohe.
CARNEGIE TARTAN 
Gold Insignia^
II. F. Simpson, J. C. Major, ICennolli Arnold, M. S. Downes, Ii. II. 
Wilson.
Silver Insignia.
F. D. Rossini, W. Wlnnlg, A. S.
Andrews, A. E. ICrogli, R. W. Sleuth, 
Win, Gibson, J. Christoff, D. Moscovllz, J. W. Metro, R. L. Sandrock,
A. Grodner, ,F. C. Smith, F. T,
Phelps, T, J, Dempsey, W. K.
Jolfroy, E. P, Gouso, Jr., E. C.
Fra/.lor, Sara Mae 'Everett, Eliza
beth Gordon, Estelle Garibaldi, G 
to. Jacoby.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL 
Gold Innlgnla.
I. C. Cromwell, \V. .1. Lyman. 
Sliver Insignia'.
\\r. I. Bitler, 11. lllndoror, F. M 
Harris, A. Slloglor, W. F. Kaul'man 
J. F. Lamb, A. S. Carter, E. G. Plor 
son.
SHILLING 
Gold Insignia.
Anna Klrkor, Mildred Xble.
Silver Insignia.
Janet Perry, Eleanor Riesemeyer 
Jane Markell, Faye Glass, Ellen Eyman, J. D. Hogan, Louise Colebrook.
BAND 
Gold Insignia.
Scott Rudy, D. S. Garber, W. 
Brown, S. E. Bittner, E, W. Cartland, L. E. Dean, H. B. Lilly, P. A. 
Putt, R. Rath, J. S. Wood, E. F. 
Sullivan.
Silver Insignia.
E. C. Botimer, E. J. Ceruetti, O. 
A. Eichenlaub, R. D. Gaylor, H. P. 
Meredith, J. Palumbo, J. D. Raddin, 
C. E. Scliauck, E. L. Smith, R. N. 
Wayman, J. Steen, I. W. Eisenhart, 
W. B. Fleming, S. C. Owens, P. 
Yocum, R. L. Jones, D. J. Turner.
THISTLE 
Gold Insignia.
George Slye, J. Richard Reed. 
Silver Insignia.
Harriet Hart, Margaret Allen, 
Clifford Zinn, Geoi'ge Carl, Duncan 
Doig, Glenn Frost, Margaret Weiland, Edward Miller, Carol Foight, 
Nathan Leebov, Richard Hughes, 
Otto Wills.
CAMPUS WEEK 
Gold Insignia.
G. L. Comfort.
COMMENCEMENT WEEK
Gold Insignia.
E. R. Patton.
CARNEGIE SONG BOOK 
Gold Insignia.
A1 Johnson.
MUSICAL CLUBS 
Men.
Gold Insignia.
B. M. Broudy, R. V. Horn, T. F. 
Loughry, P. H. Sload.
Silver Insignia.
L. F. Vogt, F. R. Sack, .T. Funichousor, J. S. Giclclng. L. H. Harris, 
111.. G. J. LeBaron, C. A. Lundqulst,
. F. II. Kitcholl, li. L. Rath, V. L 
X Wendlandt, G. J. Witmer.
Women.
Gold Insignia.
Miriam Bond, Elma Davis, Gretclien Issel, Dorothy Wilson, Louise 
Porter.
Silver Insignia.
Anne Ivinzer, Maude Cook, Georgia 
Alirendts, Hilda Anderson, Margaret 
Calvert, Geraldine Corbett, Lillian 
Cunningham, Mary Dewalt, Charlotte 
Drake, Charlotte Durie, Martha EgEach day brings with it an in
creasingly large number of letters 
from tho Alumni in which they, ex
press their opinions of Campus 
Week, and their intentions of being 
on hand for it this year. It is en
couraging to note how lightly many 
of the Alumni make sacrifices in 
order to return.
A number of suggestions were 
mado but it seems that most of the 
changes suggested had already 
been anticipated and taken care of.
One alumnus thought that if Fri
day and Saturday were made the 
biggest -days, more out-of-town 
alumni would attend, as it is easier 
for them to get away for the week
end than during the middle of the 
week.
Another suggested that there be 
some means of getting the Alumni 
together, such as a luncheon. A 
glance at the Campus Week sched
ule will show that the largest 
events this year are on Friday and 
Saturday and that there will be an 
Ahuilni luncheon.
One suggestion that will not be 
takdn care of so easily was made 
in the following letter addressed to 
Tom McDonald:
Dear Tom: 
Havo been there for every Camp
us Week since the war and shall 
continue to get there until Judge 
succeeds In starting their Bigger 
and Better War. However, if such 
is the case I presume the major in 
command, when he knows of Camp
us Week, will give me leave and 
take French leave himself in order 
to go to Tech.
Campus Week has always been 
good, but there is ono suggestion 
I would like to make: Please have
Woodlawn Club win the sweepstakes. 
Cap. Schmidt and 1 made a good 
get-away onco but we ran the wrong 
course and now we would both like 
Woodlawn to finish first.
Shall go A. W. O. L. for Campus
awaited a chaiice to get even with \ basic subjects than is now usually
him. Their opportunity came one | given. There was recently added
evening when Fatty stopped in the i to the curricula of the College of
lower entrance and walked in the j Engineering a course in mathematics
Chemistry Laboratory, which is now 
a club room. Seizing the chance, the 
boys locked Fatty in the Laboratory 
where they kept him for some time. 
Before he could be released, Fatty 
had to promise that he would not 
bother them any more, also to stay 
on the Park side of the street, and 
never come over on the Industries 
side. This lie promised to do and, 
according to reports, he lived up to 
his promise, faithfully.
C.W. SHOW TICKETS 
MUST BE ORDERED
Alumni Office to be Center of 
Advance Distribution; Tax 
One Dollar
leading to the degree of Bachelor of 
Science which aims to meet those 
needs and which will also be of 
service to those who look forward 
to teaching mathematics in high 
school or college. This course will 
give a good foundation in mathe
matics, physics, mechanics, chemis
try and English; the electives will 
permit considerable latitude in the 
choice of engineering or scientific 
work, or they may be used to sup
plement with cultural studies the re
quired courses in history, modern 
language, economics and English.
ORDER TICKETS FOR
BLUE BANDANA NOW
Wook.
Scranton, Pa.
G. M. STINCHFIELD.
Industries, 21.
C. M. BLACKBURN, 21,
IS AT U. OP CHICAGO
For the benefit of the Alumni the 
'Blue Bandana gang has been per
suaded to give a special perform
ance! Saturday evening, May 17, is 
the date for this gala show, and the 
Schenley Theater will be reserved for 
the Alumni, their wives, Alumnue, 
their husbands and any friends who 
may be willing to submit themselves 
to an evening of real enjoyment.
In case any Alumnus wants a 
ticket, or two tickets, and is not sure 
how to get them, or it, Ave will pub
lish a full paragraph of instruction.
Write to G. L. Tilbroolc, Alumni Of
fice, and tell him how many tickets 
you want, and where you want them. 
Enclose in this letter a check, pay
able to G. L. Tilbroolc, and write it 
to the amount which will cover the 
cost of the tickets, at one dollar 
each. Then, after computing the cost 
of the tickets, add fifteen cents, and 
that sum will be the amount On the 
check. You see, the fifteen cents will 
insure your tickets, and serve to pay 
postage on them.
Mr. Osborne, who wrote The Blue 
Bandana, has had many other suc.- 
cesses, and he plans to run this show 
on Broadway next season, so if you 
care to get the jump on New York, 
you had better come to the Alumni 
Night.
Alumni are asked not to try to get 
seats for the student night, as that is 
an exclusive .affair for tho under 
graduates! ,
Among thoso who have in times 
past come to Carnogio in quest of 
knowledge there are mapy who contlnuo their, studios In quost of tho 
covortod dogroo of Ph. D.
C. M. Blackburn, '21, an honor 
student of tho College of Enginoorlng 
and former worker on tho Carneglo 
Tartan, is ono of tlioso. Mr. Black
burn, wlion ho loft Carnogio went out 
Into tho wldo opon space and taught 
tho students ol tho Montana State 
School of Minos at Butte, tho in. 
trlcacies of Engineering especially 
Mathematics. For two years he re
tained that position.
Since leaving tlio Montana Institu
tion, Blackburn has been at the Reyrson Laboratories of the University of 
Chicago. The preparation he receiv
ed here with the Department of Phy
sics of which he is a graduate fitted 
him peculiarly for tho work which he 
is now undertaking in work towards 
his degree of Ph. D.
Mathematical Physics in the field 
of cosmic spectra is the particular 
major of Mr. Blackburn, who expects 
to receive his degree next year.
Lazy
Worlds progress is greatly delayed 
by those who think Its too much 
trouble.
gers, Ruth Gandeiot,' Francis Gelir, 
Nelle Iiambleton, Mary Belle Kerr, 
Stacia Ledden, Marie McGowan, Jane 
Nern. Mary Quick, Dorothy Renick, 
Edith Shultis, Virginia Siebert, Dor
othy Weber.
AUTHENTIC PROGRAM
FOR VAUDEVILLE SHOW
Continued From Page OneO 
number, which has not as yet received 
a title.
A comedy skit, vlvacjous and some
what. versatile, will be produced by 
Hardio Albright, Vomer Haldino, and 
an all-star cast. A tango, enacted by 
Ann Luria and Warren Kimball, will 
feature the second half of tho pro
gram.
Tho big finalo of tho vaudeville 
show conies with tho appearance of 
Herb Poloslo, Vomer Haldino, and his 
liovy of girls.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
(Continued From Page One.) 
were detained, they should be at 
home when, you get there today. 
Then there will be nothing to stop 
the secretary from filling out the 
blank accompanied by a check or 
money for the amount of the order, 
and delivering it personally to R. 
C. Clement, 5549 Forbes street, PittS' 
burgh, or left at the Carnegie Tech 
Post Office in care of J. C. Major. 
Be sure to1 obtain a receipt.
Students who do not live in 
either the dormitories or who are 
not fraternity members will be able 
to get seats after May 6. The gen
eral sale will open at that time, im
mediately after the assemibly on 
that day, and the place for the box 
office has been chosen. The cornet 
of the cut and the boardwalk has 
been selected as the busiest place 
on the campus, so no other location 
would serve as the distributing point 
for tickets. Any student may buy 
four tickets Or less at that time if
electives (12) during the second; in 
the Junior year, mathematics (18), 
modern language (9) and physics 
(12) with history of mathematics 
(3) and mechanics (12) during the 
first semester, and mechanics (9) and 
electives (6) during the second; and 
in the Senior year, mathematics 
(18), English (G), modern language 
(9), economics (9) and electives 
(12.) The accompanying numbers 
indicate the weight in units. The 
required work in mathematics in
cludes that taken by engineers and 
additional courses in history of 
mathematics, analytic geometry, the
ory of equations, advanced calculus, 
diffenential equations and Fouriers 
series. The latter will also be 
open as electives to properly quali
fied students from other' depart
ments.
The Department of Mathematics 
will be pleased to consult with any1 
one who may be interested.
he or she pays the man in the box 
one dollar for each ticket. Of course 
the best seats will be partly taken 
by the mail orders, but in order to 
eliminate any hard feeling, there 
will be seats saved in the center 
of each row for the public sale. 
This will enable the early buyer to 
get as good seats as he could wish.
There is one condition in all the 
ticket sales and that pertains to the 
limitation of the sales. Students 
ONLY will be allowed to have tick
ets for Thursday evening. There is 
a night for Alumni, and that is for 
them only, so the students should 
have their night as well. Outsiders 
may be .brought by students, but no 
outsider can buy a ticket.
Alumni Night, for the benefit of 
those Alumni who have not seen the 
back page, will be Saturday night, 
and the sale of, tickets is handled 
by G. L. Tilbroolc, who will send to 
any Alumnus the required number 
of tickets, providing that Alumnus 
pays, by check, enough money to 
cover the cost of the tickets at one 
dollar each, and adds fifteen cents to 
insure postage.
DR. BAKER TO ATTEND 
PHILA. CLAN;DINNER
Tho Phlladelpria Clan is keeping 
tilings moving at a lively clip down 
ln their town by having a big Spring 
party. This party will be in the form 
of a dinner and a dance, which will 
be held in the Green room oL. the 
Adelplila Hotel on Chestnut street on 
May 10 at 7 oclock in the evening.
They expect to have as their guests 
Dr. Baker, Dean Connelly and Judge 
Buffington from Pittsburgh A very 
enjoyable and interesting evening is 
promised to all those who attend. An 
invitation is extended to all Clan 
members within reach, and especially 
those who are in Philadelphia at this 
time.
Mr. William Burlce of 404 South 
Broad street is anxious to have all 
reservations made early. The tax will 
be ?4.50 per cover. Make all reserva
tions through the above address.
AUDACIOUS SPORRAN
ANNOUNCES STAFF
(Continued From Page One.) 
staff, Joe Major. Having held mana
gerial! positions on nearly every pub
lication, he is gaining notoriety 
through his economy. It is rumored 
that he turns envelops inside out 
and uses them over again.
The circulation manager completes 
the list, and the unfortunate pos
sessor of this job is W. Winning him
self. As sales manager of the Song 
Book he achieved the memorable feat 
of selling a thousand copies in two 
days, at a time when he had less 
than two hundred on hand.' He does 
not know how it happened nor does 
anyone else.
It is obvious that the achievements 
of the staff are most dazzling, as are 
the members themselves, and the 
only fault to which Tho Sporran may 
be liable is eclipsing Campus Week.
I*. S.Wo almost forgot to mention 
Baffle Couse. Eddio is cartoonist, 
but he also wields a wicked peri'. His 
pen is so wicked, in fact, that little 
of his copy ever reaches the printer; 
however, ho has promised to refrain 
from the minor classics this time.
For a Good Sandwich 
PASTRY LUNCHES
Altschulers^
Soda Grill
4519 CENTER AVE.
Reicks Ice Cream
THREE QUEENS TO BE
CHOSEN IN SEMI-FINAL
(Continued From Page One.) 
that way!
What this story is meant to im
press upon you is that the next elec
tion will be held today.
Every Carnegie man" and woman 
wants a share in this election, because 
one could hardly feel that the girl 
elected was ones own personal queen 
if one had taken no part in electing 
her. Could one?
Or for that matter, could two?
ki
boIinb
Two hundred and thirty-five American undergraduates, 
alumni and teachers will sail for Europe June 24th aboard 
the great United States Lines ship President Harding. 
Many more will go on other United States Lines vessels. 
Third class on these ships will be like a composite cam
pus of 42 universities and colleges with sings, concerts 
and other activities. For the voyage each passenger will 
have paid only $85 to Plymouth, $90 to Cherbourg or 
$103.50 to Bremen.
American Ships for American Students
THE entire third class of the S.S. President Harding, 
sailing on June 24th to Plymouth, Cherbourg and 
Bremen and the S. S. Republic, sailing July 3rd to 
Southampton and Bremen has been reserved for 
college students. Or if you prefer you may go on the
5.5. George Washington sailing July 4th or the
5.5. Leviathan sailing July 5th. Sepr.rate space will 
be set aside oa these ships for students. For your 
return, reservations exclusively for students may be 
made on the great S.S. Leviathan sailing from South
ampton and Cherbourg for New York on August 
5th or you may return at a later date.
Third Class Cdbin on American Ships 
is not steerage
Third class cabins on these ships accommodate 2, 4 or 6 
persons. They are clean, airy and comfortable. The berths 
have soft, sanitary rarattresses and clean linen;water and 
other conveniences in each stateroom. The food is whole
some, appetizing and plentiful and service of the best. Public 
rooms are large and inviting.
This is your chance to enjoy the cultural and educational 
advantages of Europe. Dozens of international fcvents are 
taking place in Europe this summer including the Olympic 
games and the British Empire Exhibition.
Send the Coupon
Send the coupon below for the folder written by a professor of 
economics in a large Eastern University, telling how he made a 
comprehensive 34 day trip to Europe last summerat a total cost 
of $342.40.
Get the illustrated booklet showing third class accommodations 
and giving full information on the ships, sailings and passage rates 
of the United States Lines. Also the folder Whats going on in 
Europe in 1924. All will be sent to you without charge if you mail 
the coupon. Investigate today.
This is your golden op[)ortunity to see Europeat the lowest cost possible 
in years. Accommodations are exclusive. Don't delay. Send the coupon.
Student Tour Department
1C.RG, 4RARG9X.CG9
45 Broadway or your ixal ascn, New York City
Managing Operators for
_UN1TED STATES SHIPPING BOARD
Student Tour Dept. 88G D.8
United States Lines, 45 Broadway, New York City
Please send me without obligation the free booklets and literature 
describing special low priced trips to Europe.
Address
College
