PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Tennis teams make it to UAA ?nals but fall short  A10Philip Glass talks composition at CMU  B5Spergel speaks at Bennett-McWilliams lecture  A4
SPORTSSCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 28, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 26
Tepper talks business, philanthropy
Courtesy of the Tepper School of Business
David A. Tepper spoke about his philanthropic efforts, how he got to where he is today, and what would become of his recent $67 million donation.
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
David A. Tepper returned 
to Carnegie Mellon last Thursday to edify an audience on 
his vision for the new Tepper 
Quadrangle, answer questions 
about his business strategy 
and, at one point, sing a few 
bars from Elviss Heartbreak 
Hotel.
Tepper ?rst made his mark 
on Carnegie Mellon in 2003, 
when he donated $55 million, after which the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration was renamed the Tepper School of Business. Last 
November, on the same day 
as President Subra Sureshs 
inauguration, the university 
announced another donation 
from Tepper, this time of $67 
million.
Teppers most recent donation will be used to expand 
Carnegie Mellons campus by 
building the four-and-a-half 
acre Tepper Quadrangle. The 
Tepper Quadrangle, Tepper 
said, will include a new space 
for the Tepper School of Business and the Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, 
formed by a marriage of the 
Tepper School of Businesss 
Donald H. Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship and the 
School of Computer Sciences 
Project Olympus.
The idea is to create some 
cross-disciplinary, synergistic 
places in the Tepper Quadrangle, Dean of the Tepper 
School of Business Robert M. 
Dammon said when he introduced Tepper in front of a full 
McConomy Auditorium.
Tepper, born and raised in 
Pittsburghs East End, stayed 
close to home for his education, earning his undergraduate degree in economics from 
the University of Pittsburgh in 
1978 and his MBA from Carnegie Mellon in 1982. 
After he graduated from 
Carnegie Mellon, Tepper 
worked for the treasury department of the Ohio-based 
Republic Steel. Tepper 
SolePower aims to charge smartphones with footsteps  
See BUSINESS, A3
Senate, GSA ratify 201415 JFC budget
RACHEL COHEN
Publisher
Student Senate and the 
Graduate Student Assembly 
(GSA) held a joint meeting 
on Thursday to hear secondround budget appeals and 
ratify the slate for total Joint 
Funding Committee (JFC) 
allocations for the 201415 
?scal year. Both bodies voted 
to approve a total $29,467 
increase in JFC allocations  
an approximate 1.95 percent 
increase to the original $1.51 
million in allocations.
Student Body Vice President for Finance (SBVPF) 
and junior statistics major 
Jalen Poteat gave an introductory presentation, during 
which he urged senators and 
GSA members to be mindful 
of recent changes to the JFC 
metrics. Among these changes was a ?at cap of $250 per 
person for travel. This year, 
the JFC also allocated more 
money to subsidize food for 
events where the food relates 
directly to the culture of that 
event.
Student Senate Chair and 
senior chemistry major Lukas 
Ronner led discussion in coordination with Patrick Foley, 
GSA president and a doctoral 
candidate in statistics.
According to Poteat and 
Foley, the JFC allocations 
were typical relative to previous years and aligned with 
projections for JFC spending. I dont see any drastic 
departure from ordinary 
JFC spending from previous 
years, Foley said.
A difference in next years 
allocations is a decrease in 
funding for Activities Board 
(AB) Concerts as compared 
to this years allocations. AB 
Concerts was granted more 
funding than usual this year 
in anticipation of the 100th 
Spring Carnival. 
The JFC approved 
$125,000 to cover artist 
booking fees for the spring 
concert  $25,000 more 
than the $100,000 originally 
requested, as compared to 
the $60,000 granted the year 
before. Next year, AB Concerts will receive $60,000 
of the $75,000 originally requested for the annual Spring 
Carnival concert.
The JFC issued ?nal budget recommendations last 
Monday and directed organizations who wished to further appeal the JFCs decision 
to make their case to both 
Student Senate and the GSA 
at Wednesdays meeting.
As part of the secondround appeals process, 
student representatives 
Zuckerberg lectures on marketing, social media
See BUDGET, A3
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
In 2013 alone, Carnegie 
Mellon launched a record 36 
startups which, combined, 
produce everything from 3-D 
printers, in the case of PieceMaker Technologies, to arti?-
cial heart valves, in the case of 
PECA Labs.
Recently SolePower, a 
company that makes electricity-generating insoles, has 
been making headlines by 
earning a spot on Popular Sciences 2014 Invention Awards 
List. The SolePower insole, 
according to the SolePower 
website, produces electricity 
when the wearer steps on it, 
and stores the energy in an 
external power pack.
SolePower was born when 
its co-founders, Carnegie Mellon alumni Matt Stanton (CIT 
13) and Hahna Alexander 
(CIT 13), took inspiration for 
their senior mechanical engineering capstone project from 
hand crank-powered ?ashlights. They wanted to make 
shoes that lit up when the user 
stepped on them, with the initial goal of making walking or 
running at night safer.
After the class, Matt and 
Hahna saw greater potential 
for their product, business 
developer for SolePower Davit Davitian, a University of 
Pittsburgh graduate, said via 
email. By storing generated 
power for later use, they could 
make a renewable, portable 
power source for various mobile devices. As a hiker, Matt 
saw an immediate bene?t for 
outdoor enthusiasts. Both 
of them also recognized the 
great social bene?ts SolePower can have for people living 
without access to electricity.
According to Popular Sciences article recognizing 
SolePower, Instead of using piezoelectric and other 
inef?cient, bulky methods of 
generating electricity, [Stanton and Alexander] shrunk 
down components similar 
to those found in handcranked ?ashlights.
Although the idea behind 
SolePower was a direct result 
of Stanton and Alexanders 
classwork, the company grew 
with the help of Project Olympus, an initiative of the School 
of Computer Science that fosters student entrepreneurs.
Distinguished career professor of computer science 
Lenore Blum founded Project 
Olympus in 2007 after seeing 
countless Carnegie Mellon 
students move to California 
when they graduated to work 
in Silicon Valley, rather than 
pursuing their own ideas as 
entrepreneurs.
We produce the best technological resources on the 
planet, namely our students, 
and as soon as we produce 
them we export them everywhere but here, Blum, who 
has worked at Carnegie Mellon for close to 15 years, said 
in an interview about her inspiration for founding Project 
Olympus. I could understand 
whats going on  if youre 
getting these great jobs, why 
even think of starting something yourself? That was the 
culture.
Inspiration from Project 
Olympus also came from 
Blums work with Aladdin, a 
National Science Foundationfunded institute for algorithm 
research. Aladdin researchers 
Courtesy of Davit Davitian
From left to right: Adam Pinson, a sophomore electrical and computer engineering major and former intern at 
SolePower; Hahna Alexander (CIT 13), current chief technology of?cer at SolePower; and Matt Stanton (CIT 
13), current CEO of SolePower. 
See STARTUP, A3
BRENT HEARD
Contributing Editor
Randi Zuckerberg spoke 
on campus about her role in 
the development of Facebook 
and the books and projects of 
Zuckerberg media, offering 
advice on how to obtain balance in a life surrounded by 
technology.
Held in McConomy auditorium last Tuesday, Zuckerberg addressed an audience 
of around 60 attendees.
Randi Zuckerberg is the 
sister of Facebook founder 
Mark Zuckerberg, and is currently the CEO of Zuckerberg 
media and the editor-in-chief 
of Dot Complicated, an online 
community and newsletter.
Dot Complicated, as described on their website, is 
an online community aimed 
at untangling our wired, 
wonderful lives. The website 
aims to address shifting social 
conventions surrounding the 
use of communication technologies, addressing how we 
interact with friends and family, how we raise our children, 
how we announce major life 
news, how we ?nd love, and 
how we manage our careers. 
In addition to having an online community, the site also 
curates and sends a weekly 
newsletter to subscribers.
Zuckerberg was introduced by AB Lectures chair 
and ?rst-year business administration major Narain Krishnamurthy, who remarked, 
having grown up in the Internet revolution, were all 
familiar with the disruptive 
qualities of social media, 
continuing, whenever we see 
something funny or strange 
on campus, we want to post 
that to Overheard at CMU.
Krishnamurthy introduced 
Zuckerberg, saying that she 
would talk about how social media has changed the 
way we interact online and 
of?ine.
Zuckerberg began her 
lecture with her background 
story. Zuckerberg studied at 
Harvard University as a psychology and marketing major, after not being accepted 
for music. After she graduated, Zuckerberg worked at 
Ogilvy & Mather advertising 
in New York. I got staffed 
on a brand new team called 
digital interactive marketing, 
Zuckerberg said. Although at 
?rst Zuckerberg had wanted a 
position in television advertising, she soon saw her department grow to be one of the 
top divisions in the ?rm.
Soon after she started 
working, Zuckerberg began 
receiving calls from her brother to join Facebook and assist 
with marketing. I probably 
rejected him dozens of times, 
Zuckerberg said.
When I got to California, 
I was blown away, she said, 
remarking on the employees 
coding around the clock. 
She said, they had a passion 
for what they were building 
that I didnt see in corporate 
America. Zuckerberg was 
asked to choose the startups 
logo, a task which someone 
with years of experience 
would be performing at an 
established ?rm. It was that 
moment I knew I had to be 
part of Facebook, Zuckerberg said.
While Zuckerberg was 
working at Facebook as their 
marketing director, she coordinated their live stream of 
the 2008 presidential inauguration and developed the 
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Randi Zuckerberg, CEO of Zuckerberg Media, editor-in-chief of Dot 
Complicated, and sister of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, spoke 
about her role in the rise of Facebook and the growing role that social 
media is playing in our everyday lives. 
See MEDIA, A3

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 28, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEF
Hotta lectures on Korean culture
WEATHER
Alcohol Amnesty
April 19, 2014
University Police and CMU 
EMS responded to the ninth 
?oor of Webster Hall in reference to a call for Alcohol Amnesty. Appropriate medical 
aid was given and, due to the 
nature of the call, no citations 
were issued.
Theft of Bicycle Wheel
April 22, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon staff 
member summoned University Police to the bike racks 
on 311 S. Craig Street after 
receiving a theft report. The 
victim stated that her bicycle 
was secured to the bike racks, 
when the front wheel was stolen between April 21 and April 
22. This investigation is ongoing.
De?ant Trespass
April 22, 2014
University Police were 
summoned to the University 
Center in reference to a male 
who was previously issued a 
de?ant trespass notice for entering the University Center 
and using its facilities. Police 
arrived and escorted the male 
from the property, after issuing him a citation for criminal 
trespass.
Laptop Theft
April 23, 2014
University Police responded to 4620 Henry Street in 
reference to a laptop theft. A 
staff member stated that her 
MacBook Pro laptop was unlawfully taken from her desk 
between April 22 and April 
23. The victim stated that, 
while the laptop was in an 
unsecured room, people must 
swipe their ID cards to obtain 
access to the building. University Police are investigating 
this incident.
De?ant Trespass Notice
April 24, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
on foot patrol noticed a suspicious male she believed was 
attempting to enter a womens 
restroom on campus. The 
non-Carnegie Mellon af?liate 
was stopped and identi?ed. 
The male was subsequently issued a de?ant trespass notice, 
forbidding him from Carnegie Mellons leased or owned 
property. The male was then 
escorted off of the property.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Chisato Hotta, a postdoctoral fellow in the Center for Africanamerican Urban Studies and the Economy (CAUSE), gave a lecture on Friday in Steinberg Auditorium titled Beyond National and Racial Boundaries: The Korean Experience in Osaka and the African American Experience in Chicago, 
19201945. Hottas talk focused on residential segregation within the two cities, which at the time had similar levels of cultural heterogeneity. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
The Carnegie Mellon 
University Computer Club 
 with help from The Andy 
Warhol Museum (AWM), 
Carnegie Mellons Frank 
Ratchye STUDIO for Creative Inquiry, the Hillman 
Photography Initiative at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art, and 
New York-based artist Cory 
Arcangel  recently found 
several previously undiscovered works of art by alumnus 
Andy Warhol (CFA 49).
Warhols art had been 
stored digitally on Amiga 
?oppy disks, found in the archive collection of the AWM. 
Arcangel started the investigation into the disks after 
seeing a 1985 Commodore 
International infomercial 
that advertised an experiment Warhol did, commissioned by Commodore. 
Warhols work was meant to 
demonstrate the graphic design power of the Amiga 1000 
personal computer.
After ?nding the disks in 
the AWMs archives, Arcangel 
worked with the Computer 
Club to read the outdated 
diskettes. The ?oppy disks  
originally used for the computer system and applications  contained ?les with 
promising names like campbells.pic and marilyn1.pic. 
The format of the images, 
however, was unknown. 
When Computer Club members reverse-engineered the 
format they revealed 28 new 
works by Warhol covering 
subjects from the well-known 
Campbells soup can to Botticellis Venus.
Whats amazing is that by 
looking at these images, we 
can see how quickly Warhol 
seemed to intuit the essence 
of what it meant to express 
oneself, in what then was a 
brand-new medium: the digital, Arcangel said in a university press release.
The teams process and 
?ndings are documented in 
the Hillman Photography 
Initiatives Trapped: Andy 
Warhols Amiga Experiments, which premieres Saturday, May 10 at the Carnegie Library Lecture Hall in 
Pittsburgh.
CMU Computer Club ?nds Warhol art
Girls of Steel work with CMU Robotics
The Girls of Steel, a group 
of high-school girls from the 
Pittsburgh area, tested their 
mettle at the FIRST Robotics 
Competition Championship 
in St. Louis last week.
The Girls of Steel are already experienced, having 
helped members of Carnegie 
Mellons Robotics Institute 
to build the Autodesk ReCap 
Robot, which uses the 3-D 
design software Autodesk to 
create 3-D models.
Rachel Round, a homeschooled senior from Harrison City, built the robots 
sheet-metal housing. It 
was a unique experience, 
Round said in a university 
press release. 
The robot the Girls of 
Steel created takes data from 
laser scanners to create a 3-D 
point cloud modeling an interior space. For the FIRST 
competition, the Girls of 
Steel designed and built a robot to do a speci?c task; their 
robot catches and throws 24-
inch balls. The ReCap Robot 
was designed with help from 
Carnegie Mellon roboticists, 
who ensured that it met professional standards.
I knew CMUs Robotics 
Institute did fantastic work, 
said Aaron Morris, product manager for Autodesks 
Reality Solutions Group, in 
a university press release. 
That they were able to build 
this robot in only a months 
time, and make it audiencesafe, has only strengthened 
my appreciation for their capabilities.
Second Round AppealsDiscussion: SBVPF, SBVPO Honorarium
FRIDAY
High / Low
57 / 45
SATURDAY
High / Low
61 / 48
SUNDAY
High / Low
62 / 49
TUESDAY
High / Low
65 / 53
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
72 / 52
THURSDAY
High / Low
64 / 46
Student Senate and the 
Graduate Student Assembly 
(GSA) heard second round 
appeals from student organizations before the rati?cation 
of the annual Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC) budget. 
Among those organizations 
appealing were Spring Carnival Committee, Carnegie 
Mellon Solar Splash, WRCT, 
Ballroom Dance Club, AB 
Concerts, and the University 
Rowing Club. Spring Carnival 
Committee received $10,500 
at the appeal for ?reworks, 
WRCT received $7,245 to 
transition to a digital audio system, Ballroom Dancing Club received $1,532 for 
their Scotch Ball event, and 
the University Rowing Club 
received $14,190 for a trailer. 
Carnegie Mellon Solar Splash 
and AB Concerts were denied 
their appeals.
Compiled by
BRADEN KELNER
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Student Senate and the 
GSA discussed the allocation of 
$4,000 total to provide honorariums of $2,000 per semester 
each for the student body vice 
president for ?nance and the 
student body vice president for 
organizations. After an appeal 
from Student Body President 
Elect and junior electrical and 
computer engineering and business administration double major Ian Glasner, the allocation 
was removed from the budget.
Approving the Slate
Student Senate and the 
GSA voted to approve the ?nal 
budget allocated in the JFC 
slate. The slate passed in both 
Student Senate and the GSA, 
?nalizing the JFC budget for 
the upcoming 201415 ?scal 
year.

---------------------------------------------------

presented to both bodies for 
one minute. This presentation was followed by a fourminute discussion, then a 
voting process that was frequently delayed by senators 
and GSA members as they extended the discussion period.
Among the groups whose 
funding requests were approved were Carnival Committee, WRCT, Ballroom 
Dance Club, and Rowing 
Club. While Ballroom Dance 
Club received a relatively 
small increase of $1,532 to 
fund their Scotch Ball event, 
other groups received approval for larger requested 
amounts.
Carnival Committee received $10,500 to reinstate 
?reworks after next years 
Carnival concert. Campus 
radio station WRCT was 
granted $7,245 to facilitate 
its transition to a digital audio system. Rowing Club received $14,190 to purchase 
a new trailer; their old one 
broke down just last Saturday 
 too late for Rowing Club 
to make the request for ?rstround appeals.
Undergraduate solar-electric boat team Solar Splash 
and AB Concerts were both 
denied the increases they 
requested. 
Solar Splash requested 
$11,700 as operational 
funds for building its boat 
and hosting community 
events. AB Concerts requested a $10,000 increase per 
semester  $20,000 total  
to allow them to negotiate 
for artists with higher price 
ranges. They also requested 
$4,250 to fund a safer truck 
stage to upgrade from traditional stage setups. Student 
Senate and the GSA denied 
both requests.
Finally, Student Body 
President Elect and junior 
electrical and computer engineering and business administration double major Ian 
Glasner appealed to retract a 
$4,000 allocation that would 
provide honorariums to the 
SBVPF and student body 
vice president for organizations (SBVPO), continuing a 
conversation within student 
government about offering 
honorariums to student government executives.
In light of recently denied efforts to provide honorariums to the student body 
president (SBP) and student 
body vice president (SBVP), 
Glasner also moved to eliminate compensation for SBVPF 
and SBVPO. Despite his overall support for honorariums 
for student government executives, Glasner said, Only 
paying SBVPF and SBVPO 
devalues the SBP and SBVP 
roles.
The appeal passed in 
both governing bodies, and 
the $4,000 allocation was 
removed.
After voting individually 
on each appeal, Student Senate and the GSA voted one ?-
nal time to ratify the JFC slate 
for the coming ?scal year.
April 28, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Tepper speaks about vision for Tepper Quad
Courtesy of the Tepper School of Business
Left: Tepper spoke about how he started his own company, Appaloosa Managment, after leaving Goldman Sachs in 1992. Right:  Tepper shook 
hands with Dean of the Tepper School of Business Robert M. Dammon at the end of his talk.
subsequently worked for 
Equibank and then Goldman Sachs, where, after being turned down for partner 
three times, he left to start 
his own business, Appaloosa 
Management.
During the talk, both undergraduate and graduate 
students in the Tepper School 
of Business lined up on either 
side of the auditorium to ask 
Tepper about his life, business sense, and the Tepper 
Quadrangle.
A graduate student opened 
the queue of questions by asking Tepper about the motivation behind his $67 million 
gift and his vision for the Tepper Quadrangle. The ?rst gift 
was basically paying back the 
school; I had a great education here, Tepper said. The 
second gift, I thought the 
school needed to be elevated 
a little bit. We need to move 
up in the rankings a little bit. 
Tepper also mentioned that 
he wanted to see the Tepper 
School of Business be more 
integrated into the rest of the 
Carnegie Mellon community.
Another important part 
of the Tepper Quadrangle, 
Tepper said, will be new athletic facilities. After seeing 
the universitys existing athletic facilities earlier that day, 
Tepper noted that they still 
suck.
Another student asked 
Tepper what he considered 
the most valuable part of his 
education at Carnegie Mellon. The education gave me 
a great foundation, a great 
business knowledge, Tepper 
said. You come out of here, 
and youre as prepared as 
anybody.
Audience members also 
wanted to know what Tepper learned outside of school 
during his time at companies 
like Equibank and Goldman 
Sachs where, Tepper said, he 
became head trader in only a 
year. Tepper said the most important thing for students to 
learn is that they dont know 
anything. Youre no smarter 
than the market  when you 
become a good trader is when 
you realize how stupid you 
are.
When someone asked him 
what he would have done if 
he hadnt become a hedge 
fund manager, Tepper joked 
that he could do a pretty good 
Elvis impersonation, treating the audience to a verse of 
Heartbreak Hotel.
Tepper also spoke about 
some of his recent philanthropy efforts, including his 
work with Better Education 
for Kids, a political action 
group that Tepper co-founded 
to improve education in New 
Jersey.
One student asked Tepper 
if he ever considered signing 
the Giving Pledge, described 
on its website as a commitment by the worlds wealthiest individuals and families 
to dedicate the majority of 
their wealth to philanthropy. 
The Giving Pledge has been 
signed by millionaires and billionaires ranging from Warren 
Buffett and Elon Musk to Bill 
and Melinda Gates.
Tepper remarked that he 
had been investing in philanthropy long before similarly 
well-known billionaires, and 
wasnt planning on stopping. 
I dont need a pledge to give, 
he said.
BUSINESS, from A1
Zuckerberg shares marketing lessons 
companys U.S. elections and 
international politics strategy.
When she left Ogilvy & 
Mather, Zuckerberg recalled, 
My boss told me I was crazy, I was throwing away 
my career.  She remarked 
that people who doubted her 
have since asked her for jobs.
At Facebook, Zuckerberg 
realized, I had a front row 
seat on how social media was 
changing our life.
We took a demand-led 
marketing approach, Zuckerberg said about her marketing 
strategy at Facebook. Zuckerberg opened the website one 
college at a time, and waited 
until there were people asking 
for access before spreading 
the site to other institutions.
After she told her story, 
Zuckerberg spoke about the 
culture surrounding technologys development and use. She 
lauded hackathons and spoke 
to how important they were to 
building Facebooks hacker, 
entrepreneur culture.
It was from a companysponsored hackathon that 
Zuckerberg got the idea for 
Facebook Live, a video streaming program which would 
attract celebrities and politicians. The program took off 
after Katy Perry announced a 
world tour from the platform, 
and became so popular that 
Zuckerberg actually got a 
call from the White House, 
when Barack Obama wanted 
to livestream a town hall.
Zuckerberg left Facebook 
after running Facebook Live 
and founded Zuckerberg Media. The ?rm consults with 
other companies on the use 
of social media and technology, and also develops their 
own publications, including 
Dot Complicated. Connected 
to this website, Zuckerberg 
is also publishing two books, 
one of which  Dot Complicated  addresses content 
similar to the website. Zuckerberg is working on a childrens 
book, Dot, which The Jim 
Henson Company is developing into a TV show.
These books address the 
role that technology plays 
in peoples lives. Zuckerberg 
was inspired by her son, who 
made me think about technology in a whole new way. 
Zuckerberg said she had the 
responsibility for the balance 
of technology in his life.
Our relationship with 
technology is not 100 percent healthy, Zuckerberg remarked. A lot of that is my 
familys fault. Sorry.
Zuckerberg spent a large 
part of her lecture addressing upcoming trends in the 
technology world and trends 
which can empower the modern entrepreneur, ranging 
from Google Glass, to Amazons drone delivery program, 
to the movement to unplug 
from technology on vacation, 
to encouraging STEM education for young children.
Zuckerberg tied these observations in with Dot Complicated, aiming to offer a balanced point of view of both 
the opportunities presented 
and the challenges.
MEDIA, from A1
Only paying SBVPF and SBVPO 
devalues the SBP and SBVP 
roles.
Ian Glasner
Electrical and computer engineering and 
business administration double major and 
student body president elect
SolePower steps into the future
found applications for algorithms  what Blum called 
the basic building blocks of 
computer science  outside 
of computer science theory, 
using them for everything 
from mapping logistics and 
distribution centers for Federal Express to managing 
auctions. Around this time, 
too, Blum said, there was a 
decrease in federal research 
funding. There used to be 
more funding for basic research from the government; 
in the past 10, 15 years funding has gone down, which is 
really a shame because the 
major innovations of our company have come from basic 
research, Blum said. I had 
this bright idea. I thought, 
well a lot of our products are 
close to commercialization, 
so why dont I commercialize 
them and bring money back 
for research?
From there, Blum created Project Olympus, which 
has nurtured close to 150 
PRoblem-Oriented Business 
Explorations (PROBEs) since 
its inception. From these 
PROBEs, 99 companies have 
been founded  76 studentbased and 23 facultyor innovation fellow-based.
Recently, Project Olympus 
partnered with the Tepper 
School of Businesss Donald 
H. Jones Center for Entrepreneurship to form the Center 
for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, which Blum co-directs with Dave Mawhinney, 
assistant teaching professor 
of entrepreneurship and executive director of the Donald H. Jones Center.
Project Olympus played a 
crucial role in the formation 
of SolePower, Davitian said. 
Davitian stressed the mentorship to which Project Olympus gave Stanton and Alexander access. It provided 
Matt and Hahna with a place 
to work as well as needed advice and mentoring on how 
to start a business. Kit Needham and the rest of the staff 
at Project Olympus helped 
Matt and Hahna on learning 
how to create a solid business plan, go to market strategy, and other crucial aspects 
of business development. 
[Dave] Mawhinney also had 
a large role in mentoring 
them and helping them understand what it takes to start 
a successful business.
SolePower is only one of 
many successful companies 
that have come out of Project Olympus and the Center 
for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, such as DuoLingo, 
a popular smartphone app 
for learning new languages, 
and OpenCurriculum, an 
online platform for creating 
and sharing K12 learning 
material.
SolePower was also part 
of AlphaLab cycle 10, from 
January 2013 to May 2013. 
As part of AlphaLab, SolePower received $25,000 and 
business knowledge which, 
Davitian said, has been 
much more viable than the 
?nancial bene?ts of AlphaLab. Davitian continued, The 
program connected SolePower with an amazing group of 
mentors and advisors.
Although SolePowers 
current model requires a 15-
mile hike to charge a standard smartphone, Staton 
said, The company is working toward a design that can 
charge an iPhone after less 
than ?ve miles of hiking and 
withstand about 100 million 
footsteps of wear and tear, 
according to Popular Science.
SolePowers ?rst insoles 
are on track to be released by 
the end of this year or early 
next year, Davitian said.
STARTUP, from A1
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Randi Zuckerberg left her marketing position at Facebook to start her own company, Zuckerberg Media, which consults with other comapnies on the 
use of social media and technology. The company also developed its own online community, Dot Complicated, of which Zuckerberg is editor-in-chief.
GSA, Senate, hear JFC budget appeals
BUDGET, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 28, 2014
CMU wins Better Buildings contest
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Today, students pride 
themselves on much more 
than just attending classes 
and getting good grades. 
Along with classes, many students are involved in various 
extracurricular activities to 
supplement their education, 
and Carnegie Mellon students 
are no exception. A perfect 
example is the team of Carnegie Mellon graduate students 
who participated in the U.S. 
Department of Energys Better 
Buildings Case Competition, 
an annual competition that 
addresses real-world energy 
concerns. The team, Team 
Everpower, won two Best 
Proposal awards for their 
solutions. 
The Better Buildings Case 
Competition began in 2012 
and aims to give college students an opportunity to gain 
skills and experience related 
to careers in clean energy. The 
program upholds Obamas 
Better Buildings Initiative goal 
to reduce energy consumption 
by at least 20 percent by 2020 
in commercial and industrial 
buildings across the United 
States. 
The competition incorporates a variety of different 
energy ef?ciency topics. The 
Department of 
Energy, along 
with other 
case partners, 
develops a 
number of cases which incorporate 
real world energy problems. 
These cases are distributed to 
the student teams, who have 
approximately three months 
to produce 10-page solutions 
based on the information provided and their own research. 
After three months, students 
meet in Washington, D.C. for 
a one-day workshop where 
all the teams present their solutions to expert judges and 
case partners. 
This years culminating 
event was held on March 14 
at the Department of Energy 
headquarters and brought 
together 25 participating 
universities, including Carnegie Mellon, the 
Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, 
Harvard University, Stanford 
University, Yale University, 
Columbia University, and the 
Universities of California, 
Santa Barbara, San Diego, 
and Berkeley.
Team Everpower included 
students from a variety of 
disciplines. The ?nal team 
consisted of Matineh Eybpoosh, a doctoral student 
in civil and environmental 
engineering; Rubn Morn, 
a masters student in the 
School of Architecture; Matthew Plunkett, a masters student in the Tepper School  of 
Business; Vedran Leic, a FulRAGHUNANDAN AVULA
Staffwriter
A single cell is home to an 
unfathomable number of molecular interactions. Over one 
trillion cells work together 
perfectly to produce a welloiled machine: the human 
body. Scientists, however, 
are fascinated with how the 
smallest deviation from the 
norm within a cell can have 
catastrophic consequences. 
Comparing RNA expression in different cells can 
provide an incredible amount 
of insight into these minute 
changes and understanding how they might affect 
the cell. Carl Kingsford, an 
associate professor at Carnegie Mellons Lane Center 
for Computational Biology, 
and his team have developed 
Sail?sh, a revolutionary new 
software that will allow scientists to analyze massive 
amounts of RNA gene expression data in a matter of minutes, as opposed to previous 
methods which took several 
hours. The tool, which stands 
true to the speedy ?sh it was 
named after, was highlighted 
in a report published online 
in April 2014 in the reputable 
journal Nature Biotechnology. 
Proteins are the catalytic 
molecules responsible for 
what occurs inside a cell at 
any given time. Researchers 
want to learn how the presence of speci?c proteins can 
impact the characteristics of 
a cell and how it behaves. For 
example, if a protein is found 
to be expressed in a malfunctioning cell, like a cancerous cell, but is absent in 
a healthy cell, scientists can 
conclude that the protein is 
somehow correlated with the 
aberration. 
It is impractical to physically collect all the proteins 
expressed in a cell and identify them because protein 
identi?cation technologies 
are not robust. To avoid physically collecting and characterizing the proteins in a cell, 
scientists have developed the 
technique of RNA sequencing 
(RNA-seq). 
RNA is an intermediate 
molecule between DNA and 
proteins. DNA is like a recipe 
book on how to build all the 
proteins in an organism. RNA 
can be considered a messenger molecule that translates 
the DNA into a language that 
the cell can understand. The 
RNA produced are for the 
proteins that the cell is actively making and expressing 
at a given time. 
Scientists collect thousands of RNA molecules inside a cell that range from a 
few to hundreds of base pairs 
in length. Then, they use robust sequencing technologies 
to determine the sequence of 
bases that make up the molecules. However, deciphering 
the RNA code to identify the 
protein it instructs to build is 
another challenge in its own 
right. 
Current techniques in 
computational biology model a string search problem, 
which involves comparing the RNA sequences to a 
large database of sequences 
and identifying the best 
match. While this has been 
a hot computational biology research topic in recent 
years, current methods take 
Sail?sh allows for 
faster gene studies
HOW THINGS WORKDinosaur fossils are extracted from surrounding matrix
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
While most visitors to Pittsburgh 
know that the city breaks records 
for its number of bridges and bars, 
far fewer know that Pittsburghs 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History houses the third-largest collection of mounted and displayed dinosaurs in the U.S., behind only the 
Smithsonians National Museum of 
Natural History in Washington, D.C. 
and the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
As anyone whos seen the opening scene of Jurassic Park knows, 
getting dinosaur fossils from the 
ground to a museum hall takes a lot 
of work. 
At the Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History, visitors can look 
through glass walls to watch the 
work of the fossil preparators, 
whose job it is to remove fossils from 
the rock  or matrix  surrounding them. Although fossils can be 
formed in several different ways, 
one of the more common fossilization processes is permineralization. 
During permineralization, cavities in organic matter that have 
been buried under layers of sediment and earth are ?lled in with 
mineral-rich groundwater. Over the 
course of millions of years, minerals 
in the groundwater precipitate and 
harden the surrounding organic 
matter, which, depending on how 
decayed the body was when it was 
buried, can be just bones or teeth or 
even skin and feathers. 
Dinosaur fossils  which are 
roughly between 65 and 245 million 
years old  are delicate, requiring a 
gentle attention to 
detail to extract from their surrounding matrix. Still, accidents happen: 
when a fossil breaks, preparators repair it with glue designed speci?cally for fossils. After a fossil is found 
in the ?eld, it is taken to a museum 
wrapped in a plaster and burlap skin 
and a wooden box, a 100-year-old 
method that preserves the fossil and 
surrounding matrix while it is being 
transported. 
Theres not just one technique for 
freeing a fossil from the surrounding strata. One method, according 
to the American Museum of Natural 
History, is mechanical extraction, 
when preparators remove the fossil 
from the matrix with physical force. 
To do this, they use tools ranging 
from steel needles to micro-sandblasters and mini-jackhammers, 
like the air scribe on display at the 
Carnegie Museum.
Fossil matrix materials can be 
relatively soft, such as chalk, siltstone, or sandstone, or much harder, such as conglomerate rock and 
hematitics, which are described 
on the American Museum of Natural Historys website as specimens 
covered in a hard layer of iron concretion. According to the Carnegie 
Museums website, it can take two 
days just to work away a piece of 
matrix the size of a deck of cards 
around a small fossil, and a few days 
to work away a piece the size of a cereal box around a larger fossil.
For some fossils, preparators 
prefer chemical preparation. 
During chemical preparation, various 
chemical compounds are used to 
dissolve the matrix around a fossil. 
While chemical preparation has its 
own set of risks  using the wrong 
chemicals on a fossil can damage 
the specimen as well as the matrix, 
for example  it also has great advantages for fossils too small or delicate to be extracted mechanically. 
Chemical preparation requires 
careful analysis of the fossil and 
matrix to choose the right kind of 
chemical bath. For fossils in a limestone matrix, for example, preparators typically use an acidic solution, 
which would break the stone down 
into carbon dioxide and calcium 
ions. In specimens where iron oxide has formed a crust on the fossil 
itself, preparators may use either 
thioglycollic acid or the preferred 
Waller Method, which uses a solution of three sodium salts to break 
iron down into a neutral pH solution. 
If the preparators want to keep 
a skeletons structure intact, they 
may use transfer preparation, a 
technique developed in the 1950s 
and still in use today. During this 
process, half of the fossil is encased 
in polyester resin and placed in a 
bath of formic acid. The acid bath 
eats away the matrix while leaving 
the bone intact and supported by 
the resin, preserving the relationship of articulated parts after matrix 
removal. 
When a fossil is ?nally free, its 
connected into a skeleton and put 
on display. While most of the dinosaur skeletons visitors see at museums look like the real thing, they 
are often partly or wholly made up 
of plaster casts. Its extremely rare 
to ?nd a fully fossilized dinosaur 
skeleton; missing pieces of a skeleton are usually ?lled in with bones 
from another fossil of the same animal or a very similar species. Casts, 
which are made using latex rubber, 
are often exchanged between institutions for research purposes, 
or used to make the surface details of a fossil 
clearer. 
For many, the most 
striking part of a dinosaurs skeleton is its skull. 
Dinosaur skulls are, in fact, 
extremely rare, and are generally 
too heavy to safely mount. Instead, 
a cast of the skull is attached to the 
skeleton on display. 
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History began its extensive 
fossil collection with Diplodocus carnegii, a dinosaur 
that lived in the late Jurassic period 
and whose fossil was ?rst found in 
the Badlands in Wyoming in 1899, 
after which it was acquired by Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie sent plaster casts of the fossilized skeleton to 
museums around the world; casts of 
the Carnegie Museums diplodocus 
fossil are on display on four different continents, according to the 
museums website. Outside the museum itself, a statue of Dippy the 
diplodocus, made during the 100th 
anniversary year of the fossils discovery, recreates the dinosaur in 
?berglass.
Brian Trimboli/News Editor
Courtesy of Mireille Mobley
The Carnegie Mellon team for the Better Buildings Case Competition consisted of (from left to right) Matthew Plunkett, Matineh Eybpoosh, Rubn 
Morn, Casey Can?eld, Vedran Leic, Nathaniel Horner, and (not pictured) Julian Lamy.
See BUILDINGS, A5
See GENE, A5

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
New computational method 
allows for faster gene analysisCarnegie Mellon team wins two Best Proposal awards 
Business; Vedran Leic, a Fulbright scholar in engineering 
and public policy; and doctoral students in engineering and 
public policy Casey Can?eld, 
Julian Lamy, and Nathaniel 
Horner.
Someone from [engineering and public policy] has 
been on the team every year, 
explained Can?eld. We had 
a bunch of engineering students interested, but we had 
to work a little bit harder to 
get people from Tepper and 
people from architecture.
The team was assigned two 
cases. The ?rst, titled Picking 
up PACE: Taking Commercial 
PACE Financing to Scale, 
involved the development 
of a program and business 
plan for states to enact Property Assessed Clean Energy 
(PACE) ?nancing, a method 
of attaching loans to buildings instead of a person, while 
increasing energy ef?ciency. 
As a solution, the team 
proposed using a diffusion 
model to build up the program over time and placed 
an emphasis on the advertisement of the non-energy 
savings bene?ts of energyef?ciency such as increased 
health and productivity. 
The judges said it was the 
most realistic and complete 
proposal, which is why I think 
we ended up winning, said 
Can?eld.
The second case assigned 
to Team Everpower was titled 
A Side of Savings: Energy 
Ef?ciency in the Restaurant 
Franchise Model. This case 
dealt with incentives for fastfood restaurants to invest in 
energy ef?ciency. The team 
proposed a competition between restaurants that would 
use cash prizes to encourage 
energy ef?ciency through behavioral changes and investment in new technology. 
The idea is that each 
store that participates would 
realize the bene?ts of any 
of these measures that they 
took, whether its investing in 
new equipment or improving 
their processes, but in addition to that theres the incentive to participate because of 
the competition, said Lamy. 
It would give all stores a kind 
of common ground and common platform to invest in different things. 
For each case, two awards 
were given out: Most Innovative and Best Proposal. 
Team Everpower won Best 
Proposal for both of their 
cases. 
The members of Team 
Everpower also commented 
on the bene?ts they personally gained from the competition. 
For me, coming from an 
engineering background, the 
interesting part was working 
on a real project and learning how I can apply technical 
knowledge to real issues, said 
Eybpoosh. We had people in 
our group from many different backgrounds and that also 
helped me have a bigger picture of what I have learned in 
the engineering department.
The team also stressed the 
fact that these bene?ts are not 
limited to graduate students. 
One of the things thats interesting about this competition is that there arent different levels, so undergraduates 
compete against graduate 
students. We really wanted 
undergraduates on the team 
because this would be a really 
great opportunity for undergraduates to get experience, 
explained Can?eld. 
Its a good opportunity for 
Carnegie Mellon undergraduates to get into [research] and 
learn how it works, added 
Eybpoosh. 
GENE, from A4
six hours to identify anywhere 
from 30 million to 100 million 
RNA sequences, depending 
on the number of sequences. 
The time-intensive step is 
in mapping the large string of 
letters to its complementary 
sequence in the database. 
Kingsford explained that 
what makes Sail?sh so fast 
is to do away with this mapping step. Instead of matching 
the whole RNA sequence at 
one time, Sail?sh ?rst breaks 
down the input into all possible fragments of size k which 
are appropriately called kmers. 
Next, the program identi?es all the different RNA 
sequences in the database 
where each k-mer could 
be found. The database sequence that has the highest 
coverage of k-mers will be the 
corresponding sequence helping to identify the protein that 
the sequence codes for. 
Searching for these kmers is computationally less 
intensive than searching for 
a whole sequence because it 
is no longer a string search 
problem. 
The database can be constructed as a minimum perfect hash table matching each 
possible k-mer from the database to all the possible sequences in the database that 
contain that speci?c k-mer. In 
computer science, hash tables 
are ef?cient data structures 
that store and search through 
information. 
Kingsford described that 
the idea of breaking down 
large sequences into smaller 
k-mers is a technique that 
is commonly utilized in genome assembly. He added, 
researchers had strayed 
away from applying this 
idea to RNA-seq because 
they thought breaking the 
sequence caused a loss of 
information. 
Instead, Kingsford and his 
team found that despite losing some information, you 
gain in freedom.... In some 
cases, the analysis will be 
actually more accurate than 
older methods.
Sail?sh is more accurate 
because it does not incorporate mismatches between 
the search sequence and the 
database sequence into the 
analysis. DNA and RNA can be 
somewhat variable between 
different individuals so it is 
very likely that a whole sequence will never be a perfect 
match. Older mapping methods are exponentially slowed 
down by the errors that are 
allowed between the search 
and database sequence. In 
this primitive system, some 
sequences will never ?nd a 
match and be thrown out because of too many mismatches. Kingsford explained that 
in their new method, k-mers 
that have mismatches are not 
considered. 
However, there are other 
k-mers that dont have mismatches which will be suf?cient in matching the appropriate sequences. Thus, 
no complete RNA sequence 
in analysis will be thrown out 
simply because of a few mismatches. 
Rob Patro, a post-doctoral 
research associate working 
under Kingsford, was responsible for the majority of 
the coding and testing of the 
software. 
They collaborated with 
Stephen M. Mount, an associate professor in the University 
of Marylands Department of 
Cell Biology and Molecular 
Genetics and its Center for 
Bioinformatics and Computational Biology.
In November of 2013, the 
group released their code 
and started a forum for users 
to discuss their experiences. 
Kingsford shared emphatically that users were having 
very positive experiences 
and that it is very rewarding 
to go from an idea to implementation and then to actual 
users so they can actually do 
what they want to do. They 
spent the past six months 
working on their publication. 
Previously, researchers 
were limited in their RNA 
sequencing studies because 
of the time required for such 
intensive computation. Kingsford hopes that this speedy 
software will let researchers 
do much more exploratory 
analysis, test many more conditions getting millions and 
millions of RNA sequences 
and comparing them to even 
larger data sets. 
Kingsford and his team will 
continue to improve their software, possibly enabling other 
scientists to make discoveries 
furthering the human understanding of the beautiful complexity of biology.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Kingsford and his team developed Sail?sh to study genes more quickly.
Courtesy of Julian Lamy
Julian Lamy,  a member of the Carnegie Mellon Better Buildings Case Competition team.
BUILDINGS, from A4

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 28, 2014
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
What if you could go back 
in time? What if you could go 
so far into the past that you 
could see the beginning of the 
universe?
David Spergel, chair of the 
department of astrophysical 
sciences at Princeton University, took his audience back 
in time at the second BennettMcWilliams lecture in Rashid 
Auditorium last Thursday 
with his creatively named talk, 
Taking the Universes Baby 
Picture.
The truth is, you are traveling into the past each time 
you look up at the night sky. 
The stars are so far away that 
by the time the light they are 
emitting  which travels very 
fast, but still at a ?nite speed 
 reaches your eyes, you are 
seeing the stars not as they exist in the sky at that moment, 
but how they were when that 
light ?rst left the star.
If you were on a planet 
10 light-years away and were 
looking at Earth, you would 
see all of us as we were 10 
years ago  and I had more 
hair, Spergel joked. It makes 
sense, then, that the farther 
away an object you are looking at is, the older a version of 
it you will see.
It is this concept that allows 
researchers to use the cosmic microwave background 
(CMB) to study the universes 
history. The CMB is essentially leftover heat from the 
Big Bang. When the universe 
was young, it was very hot and 
very dense, and protons and 
electrons moved around freely 
in plasma. 
However, as the universe 
expanded and cooled, protons and electrons began to 
combine and photons  that 
is, light  began to decouple 
from the matter. It is this light, 
which has moved freely from 
then to now, which gives us a 
window into the universes initial conditions.
The microwave background is a wonderful thing 
to study if you want to understand the evolution of the universes history, said Spergel. 
Because it really is, Ill argue, 
the universes baby picture.
So what exactly does a 
map of the CMB look like? 
You might be familiar with the 
famous CMB pictures, which 
look like an oval on which various patches of different colors 
are dispersed, that have been 
published by surveys such 
as Planck and the Wilkinson 
Microwave Anisotropy Probe 
(WMAP). These different colors correspond to the slightly 
different temperatures across 
the universe.
What we want to do is 
look at this pattern and study 
the lumpiness as a function 
of scale. What is the characteristic scale of the hot and cold 
spots on this map? Spergel 
explained.
To illustrate his point, Spergel showed the baby pictures 
of his own children  Three 
completely randomly selected 
babies, he assured, as the 
crowd chuckled  followed 
by a more recent picture of 
them.
Given the initial conditions, you can extrapolate 
forward to today, Spergel 
explained. Now, this will not 
work with babies  but the 
universe turns out to be more 
simple. 
Using computer simulations of the initial conditions 
of our universe and evolving 
them forward in time, we can 
compare our predictions of the 
present universes lumpiness 
to actual observations, and it 
turns out that they match remarkably well.
While the ?rst half of 
Spergels talk began with the 
universes initial conditions 
and went forward in time to 
the present day, the second 
portion of his talk was about 
how observations made in the 
present can take people back 
in time to the universes ?rst 
moments, a discussion which 
revolved around the theory of 
in?ation.
The way that I think about 
the motivation for in?ation 
comes from having taught for 
a number of years, Spergel 
said. He explained the theory 
with an example: If you gave 
an exam to a classroom full 
of students and every student 
handed back their exams with 
the same answers, one of two 
things must have happened  
either there was communication between the students during the exam, or the students 
shared the same information 
beforehand.
Similarly, when we look at 
the many different regions of 
the CMB, all of the patches are 
the same temperature, with 
only minuscule ?uctuations 
between them. However, according to the standard Big 
Bang Theory, these regions of 
the sky did not have time to 
communicate to each other, 
suggesting that they shared a 
common initial condition. The 
theory of in?ation states that 
these regions once existed at 
a single point, and that the 
universe underwent a rapid, 
exponential expansion to become the universe we know 
today.
During this in?ation, tiny 
ripples in the fabric of spacetime were blown up, resulting in the gravitational waves 
that the Background Imaging 
of Cosmic Extragalactic Polarization (BICEP2) telescope 
very recently detected, causing a similar ripple of waves 
to propagate throughout the 
physics community.
My reaction to this  and 
this might be me being a bit 
of a cynic  is that important 
results deserve careful scrutiny, Spergel cautioned. He 
worried that since the CMB 
is composed of both cosmological emissions and galactic 
emissions, the signal that was 
detected by BICEP2 could include contributions from distant galaxies that were not accounted for. 
In the next two years, 
fortunately, seven different 
experiments will be independently working to con?rm the 
discovery.
Between the ?rst BennettMcWilliams lecture  which 
occurred in December and featured Alan Guth, the theorist 
behind in?ation  and Spergels lecture last week, gravitational waves have already 
been detected. Spergels lecture took the audience on an 
adventure through the past, 
but who knows what greater 
discoveries the future has in 
store for us?
PUGWASH COLUMN
Corporatization is here to stay
JOSEPH ROLLINSON    
Special to The Tartan
With the recent partnership between Yahoo Labs and 
Carnegie Mellons computer 
science department and the 
announcement of Google Vice 
President Andrew Moore for 
Carnegie Mellons dean of 
computer science, Pugwash 
decided to tackle the emerging issue of corporatization of 
universities. We were fortunate to be joined by Heather 
Steffen, a literary and cultural 
studies graduate student who 
teaches an interpretation and 
argument course on this topic.
The corporatization of 
universities is de?ned as universities building closer ties 
with industry and universities 
acting more like corporations. 
We began our discussion by 
naming examples of corporatization we have run into at 
Carnegie Mellon. The partnership with Yahoo Labs was 
fresh in everyones mind. According to a Carnegie Mellon 
news release, Project InMind 
is a ?ve year, $10 million 
dollar partnership between 
Yahoo and Carnegie Mellon. 
It is predicated on providing 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
access to real time data from 
Yahoo services to speed up 
the pace of mobile and personalization research and create a better user experience, 
said Ron Brachman, chief scientist and head of Yahoo Labs, 
in the news release. The partnership also includes a fellowship program for students and 
faculty with ?nancial support 
from Yahoo, and mentorship 
from researchers at Yahoo 
Labs and Carnegie Mellon.
We also discussed Carnegie Mellons Silicon Valley 
campus, which according to 
its homepage, works with 
partners in the San Francisco 
Bay Area to establish a natural extension for the universitys acclaimed graduate 
degree programs, innovative 
research, and support for entrepreneurs. A ?nal example 
of corporatization at Carnegie 
Mellon is the interpretation 
and argument class that every 
?rst-year must go through, 
which is taught by adjunct 
professors and teaching assistants at a much lower cost to 
the university.
Our discussion then moved 
on to the effect of corporatization on teaching. According 
to the American Association 
of University Professors, 76 
percent of instructional staff 
appointments in American 
higher education are nontenure-track appointments. 
Non-tenure-track faculty are 
advantageous to universities, 
because they are less expensive than tenure-track faculty. 
However, the American Association of University Professors remarks that the use of 
contingent faculty damages 
student learning, faculty governance, and academic freedom. We then discussed the 
effect of corporatization on 
research. Steffen gave a wonderful summary of the history 
of the relationship between 
universities and business of 
which only the ?nal point will 
be provided here. The BayhDole Act of 1980 allowed universities to hold the patents 
for the results of research conducted with federal funding. 
Since then, federal sponsorship for university research 
has declined whilst corporate 
sponsorship has increased. 
This change in sponsorship 
is not without cost. According to The Guardian, Pittsburgh based industry group, 
the Marcellus Shale Coalition, canceled its funding of 
a Pennsylvania State University research project after two 
faculty members bowed out, 
citing bias in the study. An 
earlier Penn State report, also 
paid for by the natural gas 
industry, was used by Pennsylvania legislators in 2009 to 
kill a state tax on gas drillers. 
Research can be controlled 
and skewed indirectly by the 
sponsors.
After this quite depressing look at universities, we 
turned the discussion to what 
we can do to preserve the bene?ts of corporate sponsorship 
whilst dampening the costs. 
First, teachers must rally together to win back their voice. 
Adjunct faculty and graduate students are increasingly 
unionizing and pushing for 
better working conditions. 
Second, universities need 
more control over their corporate sponsorship. For example, if Pennsylvania State 
University had a contract with 
the Marcellus Shale Coalition stating that the funding 
would continue, even if negative results came out, the bias 
may never have occurred. Obviously, these two suggestions 
are not perfect and require re?nement, but they are a step 
in the right direction. 
Corporatization is here to 
stay. Universities must learn 
to control it.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of last weeks discussion on the corportization 
of academics.
Spergel journeys through time at Bennett-McWillims lecture
Courtesy of NASA/WMAP Science Team via Wikimedia Commons
The cosmic microwave background (CMB) is leftover radiation from the Big Bang and helps astronomers study the universes history.
Chernobyl birds adapt to radiation
Ecologists have found that 
birds living near Chernobyl 
are adapting, and even bene?ting, from long-term exposure to radiation. While previous studies suggested that 
exposure to radiation depleted antioxidants and increased 
oxidative stress, the researchers found the opposite happening in the birds. A greater 
exposure to ionizing radiation 
instead increased antioxidants and increased the animals resistance to larger 
doses of radiation. The ecologists captured 152 birds, measured background radiation 
levels, and then took blood 
and feather samples before 
releasing the birds. The results of the study also helped 
scientists further distinguish 
between the different species 
of birds in the area. 
Source: ScienceDaily
Worry spreads over emerging virus
As of Friday, there have 
been 92 deaths and 313 con?rmed cases of Middle-Eastern Respiratory Syndrome 
(MERS). Most of the cases 
have been in Saudi Arabia and 
the United Arab Emirates, and 
the virus can be transmitted 
between people. The World 
Health Organization (WHO) 
and the Centers for Disease 
and Control Prevention are 
preparing for outbreaks in 
case the virus spreads from 
the region, such as through 
air travel. 
Scientists believe the virus 
resides in camels and recently 
jumped to humans. Currently, it seems that MERS only 
spreads from one person and 
then stops transmission.
Source: NPR
Scientists decode tsetse ?y genome
Scientists have recently decoded the genome of the tsetse ?y, an insect that spreads 
the parasitic disease, sleeping 
sickness, in Africa. The scientists speci?cally looked at the 
genome of Glossina morsitans, 
one of the species of tsetse 
?ies. The project took over a 
decade, partially due to the 
unique biology of the creature. For example, tsetse ?ies 
are the only insects to nurse 
their young. While other insects give birth to hundreds 
of eggs, tsetse ?ies typically 
hatch only one larvae, which 
complicates sequencing because geneticists need to look 
at nearly identical or closely 
related females ?ies in order 
to accurately sequence a genome. Tsetse ?ies typically 
only produce 10 progeny in 
their life span.
Source: The New York Times
FDA may regulate e-cigarettes
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently announced plans to 
control cigars, pipe tobacco, 
hookah, and e-cigarettes. Ecigarettes are devices that 
deliver water vapor with 
nicotine. The new proposal 
by the FDA would limit legal 
purchase of these products to 
those over 18 years old, similar to regulations put in place 
regarding chewing tobacco 
and cigarettes. 
While some have touted 
claims that e-cigarettes are 
an alternative to help current 
smokers quit, studies have 
shown little evidence. Rather, 
the products might introduce 
more individuals to tobacco 
products.
Source: Nature
Y chromosome no longer shrinking
Previous research has 
shown that the Y chromosome  the sex chromosome 
found in males  has signi?-
cantly shrunk over the past 
hundred million years. Scientists now say, however, that 
the Y chromosome has been 
stable for the past 25 million 
years according to a paper 
published in Nature. The authors state that in addition 
to sex determination, genes 
on the Y chromosome are involved in protein synthesis, 
gene activation, and gene 
splicing. Scientists analyzed 
the Y chromosome in eight 
mammalian species. They 
looked at the chromosome in 
animals that appear relatively 
early in the fossil record, such 
as mice, and compared them 
with those that appear later, 
such as humans.
Source: Scienti?c American
Recent liquid is found on Mars
Research by scientists at 
the University of Gothenburg 
in Sweden suggests that there 
was liquid on Mars as recently 
as 200,000 years ago. The 
?nding can be traced to the 
discovery of a young crater 
on the southern hemisphere 
of the planet. The crater contains well-preserved gullies 
and debris ?ow deposits. 
These formations indicate 
that the crater was formed 
by liquid water relatively 
recently. 
The research group compared the landforms in the 
crater with similar ones on 
Earth.
Source: ScienceDaily
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZER
Courtesy of David Spergel
David Spergel spoke at the second Bennett-McWilliams lecture.
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Amelia Britton, Matt Brown, Connie Chan, 
Gordon Estes, Katherine Huang, Stephanie 
Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Udaya 
Malik, Linging Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER*
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
April 28, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
At the close of  every school year, The 
Tartan reassesses the years events. 
We present here a list of people and 
happenings that are worthy of recognition. Thistles go to people and 
events that had a positive effect on the 
campus community and the world at 
large; Thorns go to those that have 
negatively impacted the community.
A thistle to the Carnival Committee and all who actively 
participated in organizing a 
memorable 100th Spring Carnival. 
This years Spring Carnival was complete with some of the best booths 
weve seen in years and not one, but 
two, artists for the Carnival Concert.
A thorn to the individual who 
cut off the arm of the child statue of Walking to the Sky. Although the sculpture is often regarded negatively by the student body, it 
is still a centerpiece visual of the university, and one that should be respected and remain completely 
intact.
A thistle to ?rst-year economics and statistics double major 
and Senate sergeant at arms 
Vaasavi Unnava and Student Senate 
for a successful The First Lectures 
series. These lectures provided great 
insight from graduating seniors 
about ?nding ones footing at Carnegie Mellon and served to help rede?ne success at the university.
A thorn to Russia for its human 
rights violations, in regard to 
the current debacle in Crimea 
and discrimination in the 2014 Winter Olympics.
A thistle to the states of Colorado and Washington for legalizing and regulating the sale of 
marijuana, generating additional tax 
income from a drug already in regular use. Progressive drug policies 
have the potential to raise millions in 
state revenues and decrease imprisonment for drug possession.
A thorn to the Boy Scouts of 
America for reinforcing their 
ban on LGBTQ leaders and volunteers even as they ?nally conceded to public pressure to allow openly 
gay youth to join. Equal rights cannot be compromised upon, and a 
compromise in favor of further discrimination is hypocrisy at the highest level.
A thistle to sophomore civil 
and environmental engineering major Angela Ng and Project Smile for spearheading the Mindfulness Room, a space for students to 
relax and think introspectively and a 
place of respite within the con?nes 
of stressful academia. While the 
room is still underused, it exists for a 
worthy cause.
A thorn to the academic audit, 
which remains woefully outdated while other online tools 
such as Student Information Online 
and Andrew Webmail are making big 
strides toward user-friendly access.
A thorn to the state of Pennsylvania for allowing the rampant 
use of hydraulic fracking. The 
fracking process is connected with 
numerous environmental hazards 
such as contaminated drinking water 
supplies and is used to drill for nonrenewable and emissions-generating 
fuel.
A thistle to Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Servicess expanded 
and improved dining options 
this year, from the healthy menu options at the Underground to the extended Entropy+ hours, among other positive changes.
A thorn to Carnegie Mellons 
Career Center for moving into 
the West Wing residence. West 
Wing is one of the most coveted 
dorm buildings on campus, and will 
now lose available rooms due to the 
career center relocation.
A thistle to this years runners 
in the Boston Marathon for returning to the course in record 
numbers after last years bombings, 
honoring all those who died or were 
injured during last years race.
A thorn to the United States 
Congress for the government 
shutdown last fall. The fact that 
partisan politics were allowed to 
overcome good governing is 
disgraceful.
A thistle to the incoming student government executives 
 in particular, Student Body 
President Elect Ian Glasner and Student Body Vice President Elect Shalini Ray. They ran on a strong platform 
of targeting student unity and improving campus policies, and we expect good things from them over the 
course of their term.
A thorn to Carnegie Mellon for 
receiving a Title IX complaint 
from the American Civil Liberties Union in response to a students 
complaint that the university allegedly failed to protect her from an 
abusive ex-girlfriend.
A thistle to the overturning of 
Proposition 8 and the Defense 
of Marriage Act in the Supreme Court. This victory was a major one for the equal treatment of all 
marriages under federal law as well 
as the freedom to marry, propelling 
state moves toward same-sex marriage legalization across the nation.
A thorn to the Supreme Court 
for striking down limits of aggregate campaign contributions. Speech should not have measurable units and citizens jobs 
should not determine the amount of 
speech they have.
A thistle to Nelson Mandela  
his work as a leader in South 
Africa led to the end of apartheid and the development of a stable 
democracy. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Price in 1993 and as an elder statesman he worked to combat 
poverty and HIV/AIDS. May he rest 
in peace.
A thorn to the National Security Agency for not only overstepping its bounds of surveillance 
and data collection, but also for failing to inform the public of many of 
these practices.
A thistle to current student 
government executives, especially Student Body President 
Lindsay MacGillivray and Student 
Body Vice President Ian Glasner. 
They led Carnegie Mellon well 
throughout the past year, and The 
Tartan thanks them for their service.
A thorn to the regime of Syrian 
President Bashar Assad for its 
use of chemical weapons 
against Syrian civilians in August 
2013. The use of chemical weapons 
is a war crime, and its use against civilians is especially horri?c.
A thistle to the legalization of 
same-sex marriage in Minnesota, New Jersey, Hawaii, Illinois, and New Mexico, as well as judicial victories in favor of marriage 
equality in Utah, Oklahoma, Kentucky, Virginia, Texas, and Michigan. 
This encouraging forward momentum is unlikely to slow anytime soon.
A thorn to the Simon Initiative 
for covering too broad a scope 
in its goals, and for still being 
unclear as to how it will go about its 
vague goal of solving the mystery of 
human learning.
A thistle to State Senator Wendy Davis (DTexas) for her 
11-hour ?libuster to combat a 
controversial anti-abortion bill, that 
would severely limit abortion services all across Texas.
A thorn to the violence against 
political protestors in Egypt. 
The increase in violence in July 
and August of 2013 saw hundreds of 
innocent people killed, and such destructiveness should not be tolerated.
A thistle to Pittsburgh Mayor 
Bill Peduto, who has been far 
more transparent in his governing than former Mayor Luke Ravenstahl, and has shown a strong 
commitment to growing and developing this city.
A thorn to Arizonas proposed 
religious freedom bill. Though 
the bill was vetoed due to national outrage, it encouraged other 
conservative states to take similar 
measures which could be used to defend discrimination against LGBT 
clientele by businesses and other 
public services.
A thistle to the Andrew Webmail update last summer from 
SquirrelMail  a ?awed and 
outdated format  to Google mail.
Dont let plans get in the way of passions
JOSH SMITH 
Uncertainty is incredibly scary. 
Its why people are afraid of the 
dark, and why death and what happens afterward are so important to 
so many cultures and religions. For 
a graduating senior, whats about to 
happen in a few short weeks has that 
strong air of the unknown.
I dont want to compare graduating to death  although the black 
cap and gown dont help  but 
graduation is a time where many of 
us are saying goodbye to a way of life 
weve known for most of our lives. 
Were trading grades and homework 
for a salary and late nights at the of?ce. The mix of excitement and fear 
is palpable.
But at the same time, its that uncertainty that drives us. Adhering to 
a plan and claiming that you know 
for certain where youll be in ?ve 
years is not only ridiculous  its impossible. The most important lesson 
Ive learned at Carnegie Mellon is 
that instead of being adamant about 
your plans, you should focus on your 
resolve to follow your passions and 
do what you love.
Plans are subject to change, and 
theres a large number of students at 
Carnegie Mellon who already know 
that. Out of everyone who arrived at 
the university when I did, 232 people changed colleges in their undergraduate career by the start of their 
senior year, according to the Of?ce 
of Institutional Research and Analysiss Fall 2013 College Enrollment 
Patterns Report. 203 students were 
no longer enrolled at their initial college within the school by their third 
fall here, and 97 students made the 
decision to switch colleges after just 
one year at Carnegie Mellon.
This number has only been increasing over the years, with 188 of 
seniors in the fall of 2012 enrolled 
in a different college than their initial college, and 157 seniors in the 
fall of 2011. None of these numbers 
re?ect how many students changed 
majors within their initial college, 
or left the university altogether. Regardless, its interesting to see how 
a signi?cant portion of people who I 
competed with and against at House 
Wars made a big change in their academic careers while here.
The fact is that theres very little 
that stays the same your whole life. 
Your looks, where you live, your ?-
nances, your career, your friends, 
your plans, and numerous other 
aspects of your life are subject to 
change. That only becomes more 
evident as you enter the workforce. 
According to the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics, people hold, on average, 
11.3 different jobs from age 18 to 46. 
While that includes promotions and 
job changes within the same career, 
changing how you describe what 
you do or who you work for often 
makes adhering to a plan that much 
more dif?cult. 
So with all of this uncertainty, the 
best thing to do is what makes you 
happy. Barring that it isnt harmful 
to yourself or others, following your 
passions is the only sure?re way to 
?nd happiness. Your passions can be 
your career, the people in your life, 
or what you do with your spare time.
Even your passions arent immune to change. But adhering to a 
plan and having it prove impossible 
will leave you worse off than ?nding a new calling. Theres a line in 
Chicago Tribune columnist Mary 
Schmichs famous essay, Advice, 
like youth, probably just wasted 
on the young, that this sentiment 
echoes. The line is this: Dont feel 
guilty if you dont know what you 
want to do with your life. The most 
interesting people I know didnt 
know at 22 what they wanted to do 
with their lives. Some of the most 
interesting 40-year-olds I know still 
dont.
I admire people who have plans, 
who have goals, and who have the 
drive to pursue them. Thats the 
case with so many of the talented 
people I know here at Carnegie Mellon. But when things change, when 
you divert from your plans  or 
get thrusted out of them  its important not to become discouraged. 
Theres so much that is out of our 
control that it can be scary. Thats 
why its important to have a ?rm 
grasp on your passions. Knowing 
who you are, practicing your values, and letting your passions motivate you will help you ?nd a certain 
level of peace that those who pore 
over why their plans went astray 
wont know. Uncertainty is incredibly scary, but it helps to know that 
whatever changes, you can take the 
steps to do what you love and, in 
that, ?nd satisfaction.
Josh Smith (jjs1@) is a contributing 
editor for The Tartan.
Kelsey Thompson/Staff Artist
THISTLES & THORNS

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan cant believe that the end of the year is almost upon us. So we asked,
How do you manage stress during ?nals?
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
A8  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 28, 2014
Colleges need socioeconomic diversity
AMELIA BRITTON
Junior Staffwriter
Diversity is something of a buzzword in college admissions, yet it is 
one of the most misrepresented elements of a schools identity. Colleges 
are right to focus on diversi?cation, 
but I believe they ignore the socioeconomic homogeneity of their student bodies.
Elite universities make an effort 
to be diverse, and by many measures, 
Carnegie Mellon has succeeded. All 
50 states and several dozen countries 
are represented in the student body, 
and data from the Carnegie Mellon 
Diversity Resource Guide shows that 
undergraduate enrollment by nonwhite and international students has 
outnumbered white student enrollment every year since 2002. There 
are still more male than female students, but that gap is closing steadily.
As a white girl from the Midwest, 
I am neither geographically nor racially underrepresented here. However, students from high schools 
like mine are few and far between 
at top-tier universities like Carnegie 
Mellon. I attended an urban public high school where 86 percent of 
students from the district are legally 
economically disadvantaged. According to a pamphlet published by 
my school district, one-fourth of the 
students do not graduate high school 
in four years.
I am proud of my high school. Our 
attendance rates are above 95 percent and our test scores consistently 
exceed state averages. Not everyone 
attends college, but I wish that decision was made on a personal basis 
rather than a socioeconomic one. 
Among those who do attend college, scholarships for homegrown 
students at local universities incentivize students to enroll at in-state 
public institutions. I believe many 
more students from my high school 
and schools like it could attend elite 
universities if given the resources, 
information, and ?nancial guidance.
Financial aid documents like the 
FAFSA and CSS Pro?le are tricky to 
navigate, especially for nontraditional families. According to the guidelines for 2013-14, any noncustodial 
parent must submit supplemental 
paperwork. Since estranged parents 
are considered noncustodial except 
in extraordinary circumstances, the 
onus of tracking down these family members falls to the student. A 
deceased parent also complicates a 
students assets. Given the stresses 
that accompany these issues of documentation, students with unusual 
family and ?nancial situations face 
a more arduous process than those 
from typical two-parent households. 
This ?aw could be construed as systematic discrimination, though I believe it is more likely an accident of 
the system.
Carnegie Mellons ridiculous 
costs are no secret. The tuition and 
fees of over $60,000 put a strain on 
middle class budgets and are absolutely impossible for worse-off families. Financial aid makes it possible 
for students from less-than-elite socioeconomic backgrounds to attend 
elite universities. But what does it 
say about our student body that only 
53 percent of students received aid 
last year?
According to admissionsconsultants.com, this percentage is on par 
with Ivy League ?nancial aid. Still, 
the idea that 47 percent of our student body can afford the full price of 
tuition seems absurd. We all worked 
hard to get here, but that doesnt necessarily translate to diverse personal 
histories. Certain life experiences for 
students from middle-to-upper class 
families tend to be similar, whether 
they come from the Bay Area in 
California or the suburbs of Boston.
A caveat: this is not to say that economically-disadvantaged students 
are victims of society. Countless students have overcome adversity in 
their personal lives in the course of 
their educational journeys. The argument for greater socioeconomic 
diversity at elite universities is not 
meant to be patronizing, but rather 
hopes to transform popular perceptions of who is disadvantaged.
Race remains linked to socioeconomic status in the United States, but 
the latter gives a much fuller representation of a students background. 
When we consider race alone, the 
rich members of any minority  in 
comparison to the poor members  
are overrepresented virtually everywhere. 
This is, perhaps, most visible in 
primary and secondary education, 
where public schools are funded 
by property taxes. This means that 
lower-income neighborhoods usually have lower-quality schools and 
produce a smaller proportion of 
students who go on to higher education. Meanwhile, public schools 
in rich areas and private schools are 
better funded, overrepresent rich 
white students, and tend to send 
more students to top-tier universities. There exists a cycle of economic 
disparity linked to education. Every 
high school has smart, driven, hardworking students, so universities 
shouldnt limit the selection of their 
student body to primarily well-off 
high schools.
Colleges should promote diversity that is broader than race or geography. Policies like af?rmative action 
promote racial diversity, but may disregard other elements of identity. Incorporating socioeconomic data into 
college admissions may solve part of 
the problem, as long as the process is 
transparent. 
Admissions decisions need to be 
made in the context of a students life, 
instead of through predominantly 
quantitative analysis. When grades, 
test scores, extracurriculars, and essays of two students are considered 
equally strong, the context of the 
students achievements  whether 
a personal struggle, family situation, 
or educational obstacle  must become the deciding factor for admission. Consider a prep school with 
supplemental instruction on standardized testing, and contrast it with 
an urban, inner-city public school 
with a 30:1 student-faculty ratio, or 
a home-schooled student from the 
rural Great Plains. An SAT score of 
2100 should be evaluated differently 
in each case, and re?ect differently 
on the student in question.
Some colleges already have admissions policies which consider 
personal history, but there is still 
much to be done. Beyond discussing the issue with Carnegie Mellons 
administration, we can promote 
top-tier universities in economically 
challenged school districts. Many 
students in these districts have only 
ever heard of long-shot Ivy League 
schools, or else believe they cannot 
afford them. Students should be encouraged to consider all of their options. For instance, we could make it 
better known that private universities offer more need-based aid, while 
public universities offer more meritbased aid. Informing students of 
these intricacies  and emphasizing 
the possibilities for ?nancial aid  
would broaden the applicant pools 
at elite universities.
Although socioeconomic diversity is narrowly represented at schools 
like Carnegie Mellon, there is hope. 
A holistic approach to admissions 
would include racial, geographic, 
and cultural diversity  all of which 
would inherently follow socioeconomic integration.
Joanne Lo/Staff Artist
Federal government has power to tackle oligarchy
MOHAMMED BURNY
Staffwriter
In a Tartan article published last 
week entitled Cut federal power, 
eliminate oligarchy, staffwriter 
Kyle Henson editorialized that the 
only way to remove oligarchic in?uence in American politics today 
is to shrink the federal government 
where these oligarchs exert their 
undue in?uence.
Hensons editorial was provoked 
by the release of a recent report 
 authored by Martin Gilens and 
Benjamin Page of Princeton and 
Northwestern Universities, respectively  that claimed that the majority does not rule, at least not in 
the causal sense of actually determining policy outcomes. When a 
majority of citizens disagrees with 
economic elites and/or with organized interests, they generally lose.
Henson asks us if we should actually be surprised by this ?nding. At 
the risk of sounding naive, I would 
like to say that I am indeed surprised. His rhetorical question is a 
bit too hard-bitten, and I must protest against the casual cynicism it 
implicitly conveys about our political system. 
I do believe that our politics can 
be more inclusive and representative  than this report claims, and 
insofar as they fall short of this standard today, I reserve the right to 
be permanently surprised at their 
failure.
More substantially, however, 
Henson argues that if we wish to 
lessen the in?uence of economic 
elites and organized interests in 
our policymaking process, we must 
lessen the power of the federal government itself. The logic of his argument is quite simple: The less 
power the government has, the less 
it can do for special interests, and 
the more democratic our society 
will be. In fact, this logic is fatally 
simple.
The current size of the federal 
government is the result of a centurys worth of advocacy by the American people for robust federal intervention against special interests in 
our society. Progressive reformers, 
galvanized by the economic disparity and political corruption of the 
Gilded Age in the ?rst two decades 
of the 20th century, called for a vigorous federal government to serve 
as a counterweight to the powerful 
special interests that then shaped 
public policy. The trustbusting and 
regulatory initiatives of Presidents 
Teddy Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson illustrate the actual role of federal government in that era, and its 
ideal role ever since.
If Gilens and Page are correct, 
then the federal government today 
has relinquished its former vigor. 
Into the breach have swarmed special interests of every variety, who 
have captured the institutions  
elected and regulatory  once intended to control their activities in 
the marketplace and the polis. Nothing else explains how a majority of 
the American people can be on one 
side of policy debates and consistently lose to elite minorities on the 
other side.
Henson argues that we shall not 
renew our democracy by restricting 
lobbying or regulating campaign ?-
nance. I beg to differ. 
If these policies are enacted, 
then we shall have taken two great 
strides toward renewing our democracy. Such policies can replenish the 
strength of our federal government, 
now long ?agging, and give it a fair 
chance to combat the pernicious 
in?uence of special interests in our 
politics.
Henson claims that we can only 
renew our democracy by moving 
power downward, from the federal 
government to the states. I take 
special exception to this proposal. 
Historically, the federal government 
has been the only power in American society capable of checking the 
power of the special interests. If the 
federal government is deliberately 
stripped of this power, then nothing 
will stand between us and the special interests in our society. Oligarchy will ?nally supplant democracy 
in our republic.
Both Henson and I would like 
special interests to exert less in?uence in our policymaking process. 
But Henson, in calling for a weaker 
federal government, is actually making it vastly easier for special interests to exert a greater in?uence in 
shaping public policies. I ask him to 
pause and consider an intermediate 
step: Arm the federal government 
once again to combat special interests, so that the voices of the American people can once again be heard 
in the halls of power.
Courtesy of Ed Brown via Wikimedia Commons
Andrew Yee
ChemE
Junior
Eat. Sleep. Play video games.
David Buzzell
ECE, Music Technology
First-year
I really adhere to my sleep 
schedule. I also participate in 
group activities and socialize!
Shashank Goyal
ECE
First-year
I play pool and play any kind of 
sport to chill.
Danielle Lehmann
Architecture
Sophomore
The studio environment is arranged to distress. Its open and
social. I usually sleep or go for a 
run.
Hemanth Kini
Computer Science
Sophomore
I make a lot of music.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
The editor-in-chief, publisher, and operations manager would like to thank the2014 EDITORIAL STAFFfor a semester well done.
Your dedication and passion areappreciated. We truly couldnt do it without you!
Fracking is not energy answer for Americans
JUSTIN YAN
Energy has played a signi?cant 
role in economics since the advent 
of the Industrial Revolution. As a 
result, all the worlds economics depend heavily on energy.
During the 1973 oil crisis, the 
international Organization of the 
Petroleum Exporting Countries 
(OPEC) embargoed oil, causing a 
400 percent increase in its price. 
This price hike hit the U.S. economy 
brutally, with central banks scrambling to cut interest rates to avoid 
the sharp decrease in consumption 
and investment. The crisis showed 
how dependent the United States 
was on the energy market, and why 
the nation needed to ?nd an alternative to importing oil.
                                       The fact that 
fracking has 
started to receive 
so much attention 
... means that many 
politicians and 
economists remain 
short-sighted. 
There are bigger 
things at stake 
here  namely 
the livelihood of 
people for the rest 
of this century ...
Fast forward a few years, and 
one will ?nd that the United States 
is still being accused of waging war 
in Iraq in order to gain access to the 
countrys oil reserves. Moreover, the 
OPEC crisis led to the United States 
searching for natural gas within domestic borders. On a parallel timeline, the unforgettable Cold War, 
along with the nuclear revolution 
that accompanied it, revealed both 
the potential of nuclear power and 
its associated drawbacks.
When the United States found 
massive domestic shale gas reserves, economists immediately began to forecast what this meant for 
the future of energy. There are several reasons as to why the so-called 
shale revolution is economically 
signi?cant. Many of Americas oil 
giants have long deserted the nations interior, choosing instead 
to seek their fortunes abroad and 
offshore. Shale gas extraction by 
fracking is allowing new, specialized 
?rms to become established, hence 
disrupting the oligopoly that has 
dominated the energy market for 
so long. The rise of these ?rms will 
spur economic growth, creating jobs 
and new sectors in the energy industry. Economists predict the shale 
revolution to persist as methods are 
streamlined and more natural gas 
reserves found.
But consider this: two weeks ago, 
the United Nations published a report declaring that climate change 
and environmental destruction is 
becoming irreversible and that the 
next decade is decisive for the future 
of the global climate and its stability; the negative impact that humans 
have had on the environment can no 
longer be denied by politicians.
The fact that fracking has started 
to receive so much attention, and 
the fact that many see it as a possible 
catalyst for the stuttering American 
economy, means that many politicians and economists remain shortsighted. There are bigger things at 
stake here  namely the livelihood 
of people for the rest of this century 
and beyond.
Nuclear energy is perhaps the 
most feasible option we have right 
now, while solar and wind energy 
require further research. In a recent 
post two professors and researchers 
at the Earth Institute at Columbia 
University state that nuclear energy 
allows humans to mitigate otherwise unavoidable climate effects 
from fossil fuels, including natural 
gas. 
Indeed, the Fukushima and 
Three Mile Island crises show that 
we still have work to do, and that 
nuclear energy brings with it a 
massive amount of risk, but it also 
brings a massive amount of bene?t. 
The saying desperate times call for 
desperate measures has never been 
more true.
Many lawmakers recognize the 
disparity between economic and 
environmental motivations. Several senators have taken steps to 
reignite nuclear innovation in order 
to make it safer and more accessible across the continental United 
States through the proposal of a bill. 
The bill, labeled the Nuclear Waste 
Administration Act, would launch 
more potential sites for storage and 
disposal facilities. The senators behind this bill cross party lines, making this proposal a bipartisan effort, 
which is especially encouraging. 
These steps forward are positive ones which need to be followed 
through, as fracking does not represent an environmentally conscious 
approach to the economic future of 
the United States.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Bundy stands up for libertarian values
KYLE HENSON 
Say what you want about Cliven 
Bundy, but his standoff against tax 
collectors over unpaid cattle grazing fees is just the reminder America 
needs of our deep roots in libertarian 
insurrection.
If youre not familiar with Bundys 
rebellion, heres a refresher. Cliven 
Bundy, a Nevada cattle rancher, has 
been grazing his cattle on federal 
lands for over 20 years. In 1993, federal rules changed, and Bundy was 
required to pay a grazing fee. Twenty 
years and several court orders later, 
Bundy hasnt paid a dime. As a result, 
a few weeks ago, government of?-
cials tried to herd Bundys cattle off 
federal lands. Not to be ousted, Bundy and a gaggle of armed supporters showed up to the scene, ready to 
stick it to the man. The federal representatives abandoned Bundys cattle, 
and are still trying to ?gure out how 
to react.
As outlandish as this might seem 
in todays society, Bundy is following in the footsteps of a long line of 
American rebels, including Daniel 
Shays. Shays was a Revolutionary 
War veteran whose debt-?nanced 
agricultural endeavors were badly 
affected by the post-revolutionary 
economy. When Massachusetts Governor Bowdoin cracked down on 
debtors, Shays and a group of other 
farmers took arms. Shays and company confronted Bowdoins militia, 
and after a few shots were ?red, both 
forces scattered and the rebellion 
failed. In the subsequent election, 
however, Bowdoin was trounced by 
John Hancock, who lowered taxes 
and eased regulation on debtors. 
A bit closer to home, the Whiskey Rebellion of 1800 followed a 
similar trajectory, in which Western 
Pennsylvania distillers opposed a 
tax on bartering used grain. George 
Washington, eager to ?ex his new 
constitutional muscles, led a troop 
of 13,000 militiamen to confront 
the rebels, who disbanded before 
the army arrived. Washington won 
the battle but lost the war, however, 
when Thomas Jeffersons Democratic Republicans came to power 
in 1801 and repealed the whiskey 
tax. Though Shayss Rebellion and 
the Whiskey Rebellion failed in their 
original motives, they had a signi?-
cant impact on subsequent electoral 
and legislative outcomes.
Similarly, Bundys Rebellion will 
not succeed. When history looks 
back on our racist cattle rancher, 
hell be remembered as a nutjob who 
fought the law and saw the law win. 
But its worth noting that Bundys actions are bringing important issues 
to the national dialogue. Maybe the 
federal government shouldnt own 
80 percent of Nevadas land. Maybe 
taxes and regulations are hurting the 
little guy too much. 
Rebellions like Bundys remind 
us of the importance of liberty in our 
countrys past, and make us think 
about its appropriate role in our future. As Thomas Jefferson said of 
Shayss Rebellion, The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to 
time with the blood of patriots and 
tyrants.... God forbid we should ever 
be 20 years without such a rebellion; 
what country can preserve its liberties if their rulers are not warned 
from time to time that their people 
preserve the spirit of resistance? Let 
them take arms.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
New FCC policies threat to free Internet
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Last week, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announced that it would be proposing new laws on net neutrality that 
would allow Internet companies to 
charge in order to prioritize connections to web services. This comes 
less than two months after Net?ix 
announced a deal with Comcast to 
install its own servers on Comcasts 
networks, which would allow them 
to provide better streaming speeds to 
customers. Such a change in the way 
Internet service is conducted throws 
many questions into the air, including the future of the Internet itself.
The New York Times reports that 
FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler is convinced that this new proposal will 
not be gutting the Open Internet 
rule. However, as a former cable 
company lobbyist, he was described 
by The Verge as the man who could 
control your digital life.
Essentially, this new set of laws 
would give Internet providers the 
ability to charge large companies 
large sums of money to have an edge 
over their competition and new startups. In addition, these laws introduce 
another signi?cant issue: the pricing 
of competition. For example, Dish 
Network and other television providers currently offer online streaming 
of television shows. However, Dish 
Network is a direct rival of Comcasts 
cable television service. This rivalry 
means that Comcast could essentially tell Dish that it must pay millions 
of dollars or else suffer from slower 
streaming speeds on its networks.
Under current standards, net 
neutrality is the idea that all Internet 
traf?c should be treated equally. If I 
create a blog, access to it is treated 
the same as any multimillion dollar 
website. If someone loads my blog or 
The New York Times, the Internet provider will give it the same priority.
The FCC ensures that in all instances, broadband providers would 
need to act in a commercially reasonable manner subject to [FCC] review 
on a case-by-case basis, according 
to PCWorld.com. However, should 
we really trust the principles of net 
neutrality with the man who lobbied 
for massive cable companies?
The Internet has had such an 
enormous impact on the world because it is completely different from 
any form of media that existed before 
it. It gave what PressThink blogger 
Jay Rosen calls the people formerly 
known as the audience the ability to 
become part of the media, instead of 
simply tuning in. Traditional television has become an archaic form of 
media because it has failed to adapt 
to this new idea that the audience 
and the media are now synonymous.
Classic television as a form of media is slowly dying. Should we trust 
the man who lobbied for cable companies with a new and very different 
form of media? If companies can pay 
Comcast or other Internet providers 
for preferential service, could the 
future Internet turn into something 
more like the television services it is 
currently replacing? If a new social 
network, gaming, or video streaming 
company wants to enter the industry, 
will large amounts of red tape and 
throttled Internet speeds cause them 
to have no chance whatsoever to 
catch up with the big corporations?
This proposal would open the 
possibility of Net?ix becoming the 
next NBC or CBS, and create an oligopoly where a college student or 
other ordinary person can no longer 
create the next big thing. 
If policies like the ones the FCC is 
currently proposing existed a decade 
ago, perhaps Mark Zuckerberg could 
not have created Facebook. Perhaps 
Twitter, Dropbox, and other Internet-age companies would never have 
been started.
The Internet has become the 
place it is because anyone can create 
something great without the fear of 
red tape holding them back. Until 
now, Internet service has been treated as a utility, like water ?owing to 
ones home. 
However, if Net?ix, Facebook, 
and YouTube can pay Comcast to be 
the only services without unbearably 
slow speeds, perhaps that will stem 
the ?ow of a free Internet as we know 
it.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
April has not been kind to the Pirates. The start of the season after 
their magical playoff run has been 
less than spectacular as they sit in 
fourth place in their division, over 
eight games behind the upstart Milwaukee Brewers.
After sitting put during 
the offseason, it looked like 
management was putting 
their hopes on Pittsburgh 
repeating the strategy of 
taping holes in the roster 
with veteran players 
trying to rebuild their 
careers.
Sadly, lightning never strikes 
twice, and with the loss of ace A.J. 
Burnett and last year's in-season 
rentals Marlon Byrd and Justin Morneau, the Pirates are even thinner 
this year.
Last years team stayed in games 
with a solid starting rotation and 
shut down bullpen, both of which 
were piecemeal groups of developing talent and resurging veterans. 
So far this season, the rotation 
has been shaky at best with only 
free agent veteran pitcher Edinson 
Volquez posting a sub-3.5 earned 
run average (ERA). 
Emerging star Gerrit Cole has 
been shaky in his ?rst four starts 
but shows some signs of turning it 
around before the calendar hits May.
The larger problem for Pittsburgh 
has been the bullpen. Last years 
team was so dominant they became 
a fundamental part of the team identity, dubbed the Shark Tank, and 
routinely ?nished out close one-run 
Pirates victories. 
This year, the bullpen has had 10 
save opportunities. Saves are fundamentally de?ned as the pitcher having the chance to ?nish out a close 
game, meaning that the team has 
less than a three-run lead. 
Of these 10 opportunities to win 
the game, the Pirates have converted 
only four of them. Those four saves 
are courtesy of veteran closer Jason 
Grilli. 
Unfortunately, he is also the 
cause of half of the blown saves and 
is currently on the disabled list following his back-to-back blown saves 
last weekend during the Pirates 
abysmal homestand. 
Hopefully his woes came from 
trying to pitch through an injury, 
but setup man Mark Melancon is 
taking over the closers role for at 
least the next two weeks, and depending on his performance, maybe 
permanently.
One of the few consistencies for 
the Pirates has been their offense. 
Unfortunately, this consistency 
is not a good thing, as both this year 
and last, Pittsburgh is missing strong 
bats at several traditionally strong 
offensive positions, namely ?rst base 
and right ?eld. 
To their credit, the Pirates did 
?nally do something about the ?rst 
base issue by making a rare midApril trade with the New York Mets, 
getting underperforming slugger Ike 
Davis. 
While Davis may look like an upgrade, the fact that the Mets were so 
willing to give up on him for pennies 
on the dollar has to raise concerns 
for Pirates fans.
Speaking of underperforming 
corner in?elders, third basemen Pedro lvarez has regressed as a hitter. 
He has always struggled with the 
balance between hitting for power 
and hitting for average. 
So far, lvarez has clearly decided that home runs outweigh batting 
average. His six home runs have him 
on pace for over 40 home runs this 
season. 
Unfortunately, he is also on pace 
for a .176 batting average, which 
would be grounds for benching and 
demotion to the minors for nearly 
any other player without his power.
Its not too late to try and recapture the magic and turn things 
around. Less than a sixth of the 
way through the season, plenty can 
change and there are plenty of other 
trades to be made. 
Hot prospect Gregory Polanco is 
likely to make his major league debut in about six weeks after the Pirates maximize his team control going forward.
Unfortunately, the stark reality of 
the situation is that this is the same 
team the Pirates had last year, but 
the clock is well past midnight for 
this Cinderella story. 
Teams that sit a game out of the 
basement in their division at the end 
of April are rarely capable of ?ipping 
a switch and becoming contenders. 
I really hope Pittsburgh enjoyed its 
small taste of playoff baseball, because at this pace, it may be a little 
while before Pirates play in October 
again.
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Pirates struggle through April, playoff hopes dashed
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
The top-10 ranked Carnegie Mellon mens and 
womens tennis teams both 
competed in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Championships in Orlando 
this weekend. Both teams 
made it to the ?nals, but ultimately fell short of taking 
home the title.
The ninth-ranked mens 
team started off the competition on Thursday against the 
University of Rochester. 
The Tartans came out 
strong in doubles play and 
jumped out to an early 21 
lead after the duos of juniors 
Christian Heaney-Secord and 
Will Duncan and sophomores 
Yuvraj Kumar and Joel Lankford won both of their matches, 82 and 84, respectively.
The Tartans then put it 
away by taking ?ve of six singles matches on their way to 
a 72 match victory. Sophomore Abhishek Alla, and ?rstyears Kiril Kirkov, Duncan, 
and Kumar all won in straight 
sets to quickly seal the victory 
and punch their ticket to the 
semi?nals. Kirkov was particularly impressive, only surrendering a single game in his 
two sets, 61, 60.
In the semi?nals on Friday, Carnegie Mellon faced 
off against the fourth-ranked 
Emory Eagles for the right to 
go to the ?nals for the ?rst 
time ever. 
The Tartans came out 
swinging, winning all three 
doubles matches. HeaneySecord and Duncan made it 
look easy with their 82 win, 
while both Kirkov and junior 
Bryce Beisswanger and ?rstyear Kenny Zheng and sophomore Yurjav Kumar won 85. 
The Tartans split the singles 
matches with the Eagles 33, 
but moved on to the ?nals due 
to their edge in doubles, winning 63. 
All three Carnegie Mellon victories required at least 
one tiebreaker, and only ?rstyear Kunal Wadwani won in 
only two sets, 76 (71), 75. 
Duncan fought hard for his 
victory, going three sets and 
winning his two both in tiebreaker, 76 (75), 46, 76 
(74).
In the Saturday ?nals, the 
Tartans were up against second-ranked Washington University in St. Louis. Carnegie 
Mellon fought well, but were 
ultimately no match for the 
Bears. 
Kirkov was by far the most 
successful Tartan, winning 
both of Carnegie Mellons 
points on the teams way to a 
27 loss. He and Beisswanger 
took the lone doubles victory, 
97, and Kirkov was the only 
singles victor for the Tartans, 
winning in straight sets 64, 
62.
The eighth-ranked womens team started out competition against the University 
of Rochester as well. The 90 
victory was their second in a 
row as they looked to be peaking at the right time. 
Junior Angela Pratt and 
?rst-year Nicholle Torres left 
nothing to chance sweeping 
their doubles match 80. Junior Byrn Raschke and ?rstyear Vanessa Pavia, along 
with senior Katie Cecil and 
sophomore Brooke Tsu, both 
won 81.
In singles play, all six women won in straight sets with 
no one giving up more than 
three games in a single set. 
Sophomore Elizabeth Martin did not drop a single game 
on her way to a 60, 60 win, 
while fellow sophomore Abbey Hamstra and junior Lydia 
Utkin each surrendered only 
one game as they each won 
60, 61.
On Saturday, the women 
took on ninth-ranked Washington University in St. Louis 
for a chance at the ?nals. This 
time, the Tartans started off a 
bit more sluggishly with only 
Pratt and Torres winning a 
doubles match.
Down 12 going into singles play, Carnegie Mellon 
knew they had to take care of 
business and did just that, taking ?ve of six singles matches. 
Cecil, Torres, Tsu and Martin 
all won in straight sets, with 
Cecil truly dominating with a 
60, 61 win. 
Pavia won the ?fth singles 
point, but had to work for it, 
dropping the ?rst set 16 before battling back to take the 
last two sets 75 and 63.
On Sunday, the Tartans 
faced off against the secondranked Emory Eagles in the ?-
nals. It was going to be a long 
day for the Tartans when they 
dropped all three doubles 
matches. Cecil took the one 
Tartan point in singles play as 
she won 60, 63 on the way 
to the Tartans 18 loss.
Even though both teams 
left on a bittersweet note after 
falling in the ?nals, the season 
is not over: NCAA Championship draws will be announced 
on May 5.
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
This weekend, the Carnegie Mellon mens and womens track and ?eld teams 
competed at the University of 
Chicago in the University Athletic Association (UAA) Outdoor Track & Field Championships. Overall, the mens team 
?nished second out of seven 
competing schools, and the 
womens team ?nished sixth.
The mens team was led by 
its strong throwers, as it was 
all season. In the shot put, 
senior Zachary Erra-Hernandez continued his dominating season, taking home ?rst 
place with a 15.80-meter 
throw that was 1.38 meters 
further than the runner up. 
Senior Nathan Cheek also 
continued performing well 
as he ?nished in fourth place 
with a 13.79-meter throw.
Cheek and Erra-Hernandez continued in the discus 
event, where they ?nished 
second and third with throws 
of 44.73 and 44.32 meters, 
respectively. They switched 
places in the hammer throw, 
where Erra-Hernandez ?nished second with a 52.19-meter throw and Cheek took 
home third with a 46.56-meter toss. 
The Tartans had another 
two-three ?nish in the javelin throw. First-year Jacob 
Brooks took second with a 
53.38-meter throw, with 
Cheek in third place at 53.14 
meters.
The Tartans also performed well in the other ?eld 
events, with junior Mike McDermott ?nishing second in 
the high jump, leaping 1.89 
meters. He also took fourth in 
the pole vault by clearing the 
4.27-meter bar. 
In the long jump, the Tartans took home thirdand 
?fth-place ?nishes, with ?rstyears Don Boyer and Matthew 
Seifu ?nishing with jumps of 
6.69 meters and 6.51 meters, 
respectively.
Carnegie Mellon had a 
tougher time in the track 
events. First-year Andrew 
Chang had a very good day, 
?nishing third in the 200-meter dash  crossing the line in 
21.97 seconds  and fourth 
in the 110-meter hurdles  
?nishing in 15.68 seconds. 
The 110-meter hurdles 
were dominated by Carnegie 
Mellon, as Chang was just one 
of four Tartans in the eightperson ?nals. Sophomore Ben 
Neiman ?nished third with a 
time of 15.59. Boyer and ?rstyear Matthew Sheh ?nished 
sixth and eighth, with times of 
16.14 and 16.46, respectively.
In the 800-meter run, junior Thomas Vandenberg 
?nished in ?rst place with 
a time of 1:53.68, and in 
the 400-meter hurdle, senior Mike Standish ?nished 
in third place with a time of 
54.80 seconds.
Senior Josh Newby placed 
second in the 3,000-meter 
steeplechase  with a time of 
9:31.06.
The relay team made up 
of Standish, Vandenberg, 
?rst-year Owen Norely, and 
sophomore Marc-Daniel Julien took home ?rst in the 
4x800-meter relay and third 
in the 4x400-meter relay with 
times of 7:46.25 and 3:20.80, 
respectively.
The womens team struggled in nearly all aspects of 
the meet, but had a couple top 
performers. Senior Jacqueline Guevel ?nished second in 
both the 100- and 400-meter 
hurdles, ?nishing with times 
of 15.09 and 1:03.82.
Junior Sasha Spalding 
placed second in the long 
jump with a leap of 5.47 
meters. She also ?nished 
third in the shot put with a 
10.49-meter throw.
In the high jump, ?rst-year 
Rebecca Fortner ?nished in 
fourth place after clearing 
the 1.53-meter bar on her 
?rst attempt, and in the hammer throw, ?rst-year Colette 
Tano ?nished in fourth with a 
42.09-meter throw. 
Both teams will next compete in Allegheny Colleges 
Gator Invitational on May 9.
Both tennis teams fall 
just short of titles at UAAs
CMU takes 2nd, 6th at track and ?eld championships
Unfortunately, the 
stark reality of the 
situation is that 
this is the same 
team the Pirates 
had last year, but 
the clock is well 
past midnight for 
this Cinderella 
story.
File photo by Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
Sophomore Brian Bollens competes in the steeplechase at a meet at 
Carnegie Mellon on April 5.
File photo by Jason Chen/Assistant Photo Editor
The womens team advanced to Sundays ?nal round of the UAA 
Championship before falling 18 to the Emory Eagles.
Maegha Singh/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

Arts Greenhouse
Local high school students showcase 
hip-hop and musical talents  B8
Philip Glass
Composer speaks to CFA  B10One Night in Beijing
Performances celebrate Chinese 
culture and diversity  B3
04.28.14 Volume 108, Issue 26
Parks and Recreation
Comedy wraps up its sixth season  B7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Take a break from finals to chuckle at this 
weeks roundup.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents Monty Python and the Holy 
Grail.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Maryyann Landlord
8
3510
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about 
procrastinating and handling loud sleepers.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Beijing
AARC puts on an entertaining performance 
that celebrates Chinese culture. 
3
Quick recipes
Having trouble eating healthy during finals? 
These quick and easy recipes will help you out.
4
Philharmonic
CMU Philharmonic takes Carnegie Music Hall 
by storm with impressive performances.
5
Concerts
Check out the great lineup of bands coming to 
Pittsburgh this summer.
6
Parks and Rec
The season finale feels more like a series finale, 
but is as entertaining as ever.
7
Arts Greenhouse
A hip-hop education program showcases work 
and unites Pittsburgh students.
8
Philip Glass
The well-loved musical celebrity comes to 
campus to give a surprisingly sage talk.
10
Puzzles
If your brain isnt hurting enough on the last 
week of classes, try a puzzle.
13
Horoscopes
Stressed out? The stars have advice that can 
help you remain calm.
14
Calendar
Check out the fun things you can do this week 
in Pittsburgh with all of your spare time.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 04.28.143
Beijing comes to Pittsburgh
ARCC celebrates Chinese culture with performances, ?lm
One Night in Beijing, the annual Chinese cultural 
performance show held by ARCC (Awareness of 
Roots in Chinese Culture), was held on Saturday 
night.
This year, the theme of the show was Pig Tales, 
which featured an overarching skit billed as an 
original sequel to the famous Journey to the West. 
Journey to the West, of course, is one of the most 
well-known stories in Chinese literature, featuring 
the adventures of Sun WuKong, the Monkey King, 
and the other disciples of a Buddhist monk, who 
travel from China to India on a pilgrimage. The 
skit follows the story of Zhu Bajie, the comical pigman disciple known for his laziness and gluttony, 
who must serve time tending to a temple after he 
commits a number of misdeeds.
While at the temple, Zhu Bajie, played by sophomore 
information systems major Daniel Song, forms a 
friendship with a taciturn girl named Huan Meiling,  
played by senior international relations and politics 
and Chinese studies double major Sandra Yeh, who 
is being hounded by literal demons. Bajie must also 
face harsh rebukes from the deified Chinese general 
Guan Yu, played by junior mechanical engineering 
and biomedical engineering double major Calvin 
Chan. The Monkey King also makes an appearance 
as a comically adorable version played by junior 
computer science major Joy Lin.
The skit had a number of humorous touches, 
including the use of oh my Buddha instead of 
oh my God, as well as a subplot about the Bandit 
Queen, who finds the Monkey King sexy, much to 
the dismay of her husband.
The skit also segued into the performances well, 
with each performance complementing a portion of 
the skit. The performances themselves surveyed the 
landscape of Chinese culture, from its ancient roots 
to modern times.
One of the best performances of the night included 
You Know You Love Me, Im Your Bad Boy, a 
performance led by the Bandit King as he tried to 
impress his wife into loving him again. A dance to 
the song Moonwalk by Taiwanese boyband JPM, 
Im Your Bad Boy was a smooth but energetic 
dance performance that showcased effects such as 
silhouette lighting. The dancing was choreographed 
well enough to be a music video for the actual song.
Its companion performance Fragile Falling Flowers 
and Breakups, was a graceful fan dance that 
touched on the same themes as Im Your Bad Boy. 
Together, the two songs offered female and male 
perspectives on love and breakups. 
Also notable was the showing of Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus David Hsus (CIT 06) short film, Fate, 
about a girl who loses her boyfriend in a freak 
automobile accident, but gets a chance to reverse 
the death  at a price. The film features many 
Carnegie Mellon-centric locales and references. At 
one point, Hsu worked in a reference to The Last 
Lecture by Randy Pausch.
Many other performances also featured fan dancing, 
Chinese folk songs, and C-pop. The Ballroom Dance 
Club made an appearance in the performance Toxic 
Tango, a dance to the Britney Spears hit. At one 
part of the show, Princess Anna from Frozen teamed 
up with a sea deity to sing Let Part of Your World 
Go, a mashup of the hit songs from Frozen and The 
Little Mermaid.
The show also featured performances with uniquely 
Chinese instruments and objects, such as the 
Chinese yo-yo, the Chinese qin (a traditional 
stringed instrument), and lion dancing  dances 
in lion costumes traditionally performed during 
Chinese festivals.
One Night in Beijing was a show that brought 
together a multitude of talented performers from 
the Carnegie Mellon community and a variety of 
influences from Chinese culture. It was a great 
show for anyone with a connection to, or interest in, 
China.
Xiyu Wang | Assistant Forum Editor 
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear advice columnist 
who seems to be a 
different person every 
week (whats up with 
that?),
Ive been trying to find 
anything at all to do 
instead of study for finals, 
and I mean anything: 
prank calling, volunteer 
work, and I even signed 
up for jury duty yesterday. 
Then I found out House 
was on Netflix, and 
any ray of hope for my 
academic adequacy is 
now gone. Should I even 
try to pass my finals?
Lazily yours,
Dont Regret Whining, 
Instead Languid, Splayed 
Out, Noshing
Dear DR WILSON,
Well, first things first: 
Watching all eight seasons 
of House should be your 
main priority. Jury duty can 
wait; if youre watching 
five episodes a day, as you 
should be, thats around 
when hes admitted to a 
mental asylum, and theres 
no way you can miss that 
arc. Oh, Im sorry, were 
those spoilers? Whoops.
Also, why would you ever 
willingly sign up for jury 
duty? What could possibly 
be worse than ... oh, wait, 
youre taking 251? Well, 
better bring a good book 
to the courtroom. If youre 
feeling masochistic enough 
to volunteer for such 
excruciating experiences, 
I recommend Infinite Jest. 
Nice light reading.
Remember, its never 
lupus,
Evan
Dear guy,
It was 3 a.m. I was 
working on a PowerPoint 
on the Mac side of the 
CFA clusters. I thought 
I was the only person 
there, until I realized 
there was a really tall 
guy curled up into a ball 
in one of the blue swivel 
chairs. He was sleeping 
and snoring loudly 
enough to be really, really 
annoying. I didnt wake 
him up this time, but 
what should I do if this 
happens again?
Sincerely,
Want to Unhinge Mouth 
of Precariously Uncoiling 
Snorer
Dear WUMPUS,
I wouldnt do anything really 
mean  unless youre 
morally bankrupt, in which 
case, by all means, take the 
risk and slap him awake, 
only to be knocked out by a 
likely member of the football 
team. Actually, wait; dont 
do that. Even players on 
Carnegie Mellons football 
team have a little intimidation 
factor.
Its probably best to put 
on your CFA headphones, 
blast some math rock, and 
pretend the snoring is just 
percussion.
Or dip his right hand in 
warm water, then go to 
Hunt,
Evan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About procrastinating and loud sleepers
Dancing was just one of many Chinese traditions 
showcased at One Night In Beijing.

---------------------------------------------------

4cooking
pillbox 04.28.14
The weathers getting warmer, the ?owers are blooming, 
and campus is waking up from its long winter nap. With 
the arrival of spring comes a desire to be healthier, but 
with campus food being what it is, its hard to commit to 
eating healthy. In honor of the beautiful spring weather 
this week, here are a few quick and easy recipes that are 
tasty and healthy.
Make them on-the-go as you explore the city or enjoy 
them while relaxing on the Cut.
Fruit Smoothies
Serves 4
Source: foodnetwork.com
Ingredients:
4 frozen bananas
4 cups of frozen berries
2 cups of milk
1 cup of vanilla yogurt
1 cup of orange juice
2 or 3 tablespoons of honey
Equipment needed:
Blender
Instructions:
1. Start with the fruit and blend it until its chunky.
2. Add the milk, yogurt, and honey. Blend until smooth.
3. Taste, and then add honey until it tastes good, 
blending for a few more minutes to mix it in.
4. Pour into a glass and enjoy. Smoothies should be 
served cold and can also be refrigerated for later.
Granola Bars
Makes 18 bars
Source: original home recipe
Ingredients:
2 cups of oats
 cup of brown sugar
 cup of honey
 cup of butter, peanut butter, or apple butter
 cup of raisins, dried cherries or cranberries, M&Ms, 
mini chocolate chips, sun?ower seeds, sliced almonds, or 
any other add-in item
Equipment needed:
Oven, baking pan, mixing bowl
Instructions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Spray a 9 by 13-inch 
pan with cooking spray.
2. Mix the brown sugar, honey, and butter together in a 
large bowl.
3. Add the oats and the add-ins, mixing to make sure 
that everything is coated. The mixture should be thick 
and sticky.
4. Dump into the pan, and press the mixture down.
5. Bake for about 18 minutes or until light brown. Do not 
overcook  the bars will get dry.
6. Cool for ?ve minutes, then cut into squares.
7. Serve when cooled. Store the bars in an airtight 
container for a quick snack.
Hearty and Healthy Soup
Serves 4
Source: womensday.com
Ingredients:
 cup of quinoa
2 tablespoons of olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 carrot, chopped
2 stalks of celery, chopped
3 cloves of garlic, chopped
1 tablespoon of smoked paprika
1 yellow pepper, cut into  inch pieces
1 red pepper, cut into  inch pieces
2 cans of rinsed chickpeas
2 cups of vegetable broth
1 cup of water
2 tablespoons of red wine vinegar
Salt and pepper to taste
Chopped fresh parsley for garnish (optional)
Equipment needed:
Stove, small saucepan, large pot, knife, cutting board
Instructions:
1. Cook the quinoa in the small saucepan. When ?nished, 
set aside.
2. Meanwhile, put the oil in the pot on high heat. When 
hot, add the onion, carrot, and celery and cover. Cook for 
about six minutes.
3. Add the garlic, paprika, and salt and pepper and stir 
for one minute.
4. Add the peppers and then cook for ?ve minutes while 
stirring.
5. Add the two cans of chickpeas and the vegetable 
broth. Add one cup of water and then bring to a boil. 
6. Reduce heat and simmer for 510 minutes.
7. Take off of the heat, and add the vinegar and the 
quinoa.
8. Stir, and top with parsley. Serve hot.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Whip up this hearty soup for a quick meal, or a great 
study snack for those late nights.
A couple of easy, tasty, and healthy recipes
These items can be made quickly in any dormitory kitchen and will fuel you through ?nals
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Make a batch of granola bars to save for a few days. 
One of these in the morning can jumpstart your day.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 04.28.145
Its one thing to read that Carnegie Mellons School of 
Music is one of the top undergraduate music programs 
in the country; its another to hear the product of student 
work come to life on stage. On Wednesday, the Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic graced Carnegie Music Hall with 
impressive performances across the board. Beginning 
with a roaring Ruslan and Ludmila, moving into a 
showcase of solo talent, and concluding with the epic 
Shostakovich 5, the orchestra rose to the challenge of a 
broad and well-rehearsed program.
The orchestra launched the evening with a breakneck 
rendition of Mikhail Glinkas notoriously fast Ruslan and 
Ludmila Overture. Conductor Andrs Crdenes took a 
very laid-back style in leading the orchestra in this ?rst 
piece. After his ?rst cue, he leaned back, conducting 
with nothing but an occasional bob of the head or twitch 
of the ?ngers. Surprisingly, the orchestra maintained a 
reasonable tempo on its own, staying a uni?ed body and 
resisting the ever-present temptation to speed up to the 
point of total cacophony.
The phrasing was cloudy at moments, but overall 
sharp and uni?ed, and the cellos were simply beautiful 
when they took the limelight with their sweeping 
melody, wringing every ounce of tenderness from 
each bar without slowing the tempo. The Glinka 
proved an excellent choice for an opener: It infused the 
performance with energy right from the start and elicited 
cheers from the audience.
The evening also showcased Carnegie Mellons solo 
talent: After the Glinka, the musicians rearranged their 
seats to make room for Krzysztof Rucinski, a masters 
student in violin performance and the highlight of the 
second part of the program. He chose to play Karol 
Szymanowskis Violin Concerto No. 1  a piece written 
in 1916 and often considered one of the ?rst modern 
violin concertos, for immediately obvious reasons: The 
piece is beautiful but atonal, departing from traditional 
compositions of the form.
At ?rst appearance, Rucinski did not have a particularly 
emotive or even charismatic stage presence. Many 
concert soloists naturally try to charm their audience or 
make a show of chemistry with the conductor. Rucinski 
crossed the stage wearing all black, only modestly 
acknowledging the applause that greeted him. All that 
changed, however, when the music started. When 
Rucinski lowered his violin during the extended breaks 
between passages, he lifted his head up as if in wonder, 
eyes shining  as if he were drinking in the music for 
the ?rst time. At times, he closed his eyes, as if shutting 
off his vision would enhance his hearing that much 
more.
Rucinskis playing itself was ?awed at points, but 
overall it was exquisite. His eerie, beautiful ?rst notes 
were made tender and haunting by a ?uid, effortlessly 
quavering vibrato. Rucinski sometimes lacked the 
volume for his sound to rise over the clamoring orchestra, 
but his playing was no less forceful for it; during grittier 
passages, Rucinski seemed to rage at the music, digging 
recklessly into the strings  and snapping a few bow 
hairs in the process.
After a long intermission, the full orchestra took the 
stage again for Dmitri Shostakovichs Symphony No. 5. 
While not technically dif?cult, the symphony is one of 
the composers better-known works, and an ambitious 
choice given its historical context. Symphony No. 5 was 
Shostakovichs response to criticism and intimidation 
by Stalin himself and his associates in 1930s Russia. 
While overtly patriotic  the piece gained wide acclaim 
from Stalinist authorities upon its premiere  it is 
now generally understood that Symphony No. 5 was 
Shostakovichs subtly seditious effort to make realist 
commentary on the suffering of the Russian people while 
appeasing Stalins regime and avoiding arrest himself. 
It is a depiction of forced celebration: the appearance 
of patriotism, with a strong undertone of turmoil and 
suffering tainting the happy picture.
From Wednesdays performance, it was clear that 
the orchestra did not take this challenge lightly: The 
musicians gave the piece the gravity and attention 
it deserves. Clocking in at roughly 45 minutes, the 
symphony isnt a short one  but the musicians 
maintained energy and a high quality of performance 
throughout. The well-rehearsed moments in the 
performance were apparent in the clear, uni?ed phrasing 
and well-coordinated, broad range of dynamics. The 
performance held a wide range of moments, from fragile, 
creepily soft spider-web passages to roaring crescendos 
that tumbled into furious musical chaos. At times, the 
piece reached very brief but deafening peaks of volume, 
characterized by a ?erce rumbling of the timpani.
Crdenes, too, was especially animated throughout the 
Shostakovich in contrast to his approach to the Glinka. It 
seemed he had been saving his energy all night for that 
last 45 minutes. During particularly energetic passages, 
he shook his ?st at the orchestra, as if threatening them 
with violence if they didnt play loud enough.
The piece concluded with a racing fourth movement, 
which mellowed into a full, round sound that carried 
the triumphant  or despairing  last minutes of the 
symphony into a grand swell of an ending. Immediately 
after the musicians lowered their instruments, the 
audience leapt into a full standing ovation.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher
Philharmonic rocks Carnegie Music Hall
Orchestra comprised of School of Music undergraduates performs a challenging program
  Photo illustration by Alan Vangpat | Senior Photographer
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic gave a spirited performance of challenging pieces to those in attendance at 
Carnegie Music Hall last Wednesday evening.

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 04.28.14
The semester is ?nally wrapping up, and its time to 
start thinking about summer. Many students choose 
to remain in the Pittsburgh area to take classes, work 
at an internship in the city, conduct research, or just 
for convenience. Music lovers who choose to remain in 
Pittsburgh this summer are in luck  there is a great 
lineup of concerts coming to the Steel City. There are 
many more concerts than the ones listed here and likely 
many more to be announced in the future; these are just 
the highlights.
Neon Trees
May 14
Kick off the summer with a bang at a Neon Trees 
concert. Youve heard their songs Animal, Everybody 
Talks, and their latest single, Sleeping With A Friend 
on the radio. Now hear them live. This tour celebrates 
the release of their latest album, Pop Psychology. In 
addition to the upbeat, danceable music, lead singer 
Tyler Glenn is a high-energy performer with great dance 
moves and a knack for putting on an entertaining show. 
The Neon Trees will be at Stage AE on the last day of 
?nals.
Ingrid Michaelson 
May 25
Want to hear great live music but dont want all of the 
chaos of a typical concert? Then Ingrid Michaelsons 
sweet, indie-pop tunes and smooth vocals are the 
right choice for you. Her music has the ability to make 
listeners feel like theyre curled up in a fuzzy blanket 
with a cup of hot cocoa and a puppy in their lap. For a 
nice alternative to the typical concert, check out Ingrid 
Michaelson at Stage AE.
Backstreet Boys and Avril Lavigne 
June 14
Backstreets back, and theres nothing complicated 
about it. Take a trip down memory lane at this concert. 
The Backstreet Boys are celebrating 21 years together 
with their In A World Like This summer tour. Avril 
Lavigne will be performing new songs in addition to the 
classics we all know and love from 2002. For a nostalgic 
and fun concert, head out to the First Niagara Pavilion.
Arctic Monkeys and White Denim
June 17 
For music enthusiasts with a special preference for indie 
rock and a soft spot for English men, the Arctic Monkeys 
are the perfect band. They will make this international 
summer tour in support of their ?fth and most recent 
album, AM. Similarly to the Arctic Monkeys, White 
Denim is a four-piece indie rock band. This band from 
Texas has a unique sound drawn from dub, psychedelic 
rock, blues, progressive rock, soul, jazz, and experimental 
rock. This concert at Stage AE promises to be a great 
show for fans of alternative music.
Tegan and Sara
June 19
Tegan and Sara, a sister band, are one of those bands 
that sound even better live than they do on the radio. 
Most well-known for their single on the radio, Closer, 
these girls are anything but super?cial pop stars. Their 
lyrics are powerful and evocative, and they pour tons of 
emotion and energy into all of their performances. Not to 
mention, breaks between songs are ?lled with humorous 
banter between Tegan, Sara, and the audience. If youre 
looking for a high-energy concert with charismatic 
performers, check out Tegan and Sara at Stage AE.
Monumentour: Fall Out Boy & Paramore
July 3
This concert promises to be exactly what the title of the 
tour implies: monumental. This is one of those concerts 
where both acts will keep you excited, dancing, and 
enthusiastic from start to ?nish. With Fall Out Boys 
recent album, Save Rock and Roll, and Paramores recent 
self-titled album, these two bands are sure to put on a 
great performance featuring many fresh songs, as well 
as familiar songs from earlier in their careers. Check out 
the bands you fell in love with in middle school that are 
somehow still making great music for you to rock out to 
on the radio at the First Niagara Pavilion.
Paul McCartney
July 7
An oldie but a goodie, no explanation is really needed for 
why Paul McCartney would put on a great show. For 
those not impressed by his accomplishments already, at 
least give the man credit for continuing to put on high 
energy performances even though hes not as young as 
he once was. If your heart lies with classic rock music, 
check out this iconic star at the Consol Energy Center.
Katy Perry 
July 22
Fun fact: Teenage Dream was the ?rst album by a female 
artist to have ?ve number-one hits. This ?rework has 
tons of achievements and honors under her tiny belt 
for her fun, catchy tunes. However, her latest album 
Prism features darker music with more self-empowering 
themes. For a little taste of girl power and a lot of fun, go 
to the Consol Energy Center.
Jason Aldean, Tyler Farr, Miranda Lambert, & 
Florida Georgia Line
July 26 
If you are a country fan, this concert should sound like 
heaven  four well-known country stars will come 
together in one night for what promises to be an 
awesome concert and a fun time. The location is great 
too  PNC Park is a great location and a beautiful park 
that offers a spectacular view of the rivers. Get all your 
best pals together and head downtown to PNC Park for 
a night of good old-fashioned country music. Just dont 
forget your cowboy hat.
Panic! at the Disco
August 1
Looking for an alternative concert with upbeat, danceinducing music? Look no further than Panic! at the 
Disco. If that isnt enticing enough, attractive lead singer 
Brendon Uries fancy footwork, which includes back?ips, 
should be a solid reason to attend. Urie isnt just all show, 
however. He wrote almost every song on the newest 
album, Too Weird to Live, Too Rare to Die, about his best 
friend who struggled with a drug addiction. Check out 
this fun concert with a deeper, complex meaning behind 
the lyrics at Stage AE.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Guess whos coming to perform in Pittsburgh
Catch a few of your favorite artists if youre staying in town for work, class, or no reason at all
M.I.A.  April 28, Stage AE  Gibbzmatik  May 30, Altar Bar  Zomboy  June 11, Rex Theater    311 and Sublime w/ Rome  July 14, Stage AE
Lady Gaga May 8, CONSOL Energy Center Bastille  June 1, Stage AE  O.A.R. and Phillip Phillips  June 18, Stage AE   Jack White  July 27, Stage AE
Mastodon  May 9. Stage AE  Needtobreathe  June 3, Stage AE  Luke Bryan, Lee Brice, and Cole Swindell  June 21, Heinz Field Dark Star Orchestra  August 8, Stage AE
Black Label Society  May 15, Stage AE Tyler, the Creator  June 4, Stage AE  Journey and Steve Miller Band  June 27, First Niagara Pavillion OneRepublic  August 8, First Niagara Pavillion
Brad Paisley May 17. First Niagara Pavillion Titus Andronicus  June 5, Cattivo  Counting Crows  June 27, Stage AE    Toby Keith  August 9, First Niagara Pavillion
The Head and the Heart  May 30, Stage AE Tim McGraw  June 6, First Niagara Pavillion Sugar Ray and Smash Mouth  July 13, Stage AE                     
Here are a few more concerts coming to Pittsburgh this summer:

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 04.28.147
Warning: This article contains spoilers for the Parks and 
Recreaton season six ?nale, Moving Up.
Pawnee, Ind. is far from perfect. The people are rude 
and morbidly obese; the infrastructure is crumbling and 
prone to raccoon infestations. But despite all its ?aws, 
former City Councilwoman and Deputy Director of the 
Pawnee City Department of Parks and Recreation Leslie 
Knope (Amy Poehler) loves Pawnee with a ?erce passion.
What would Pawnee be without her? More importantly, 
who would Leslie be without Pawnee? Last Thursday, 
Parks and Recreation played with those questions in its 
season six ?nale, Moving Up.
There were a lot of storylines going into this ?nale, 
which could have made even the extra 20 minutes feel 
crammed with content, but the writers managed to 
merge them into one cohesive storyline.
The NBC comedy saw Leslie tackle all sorts of new 
obstacles this season: the recall election, the pregnancy 
and subsequent exit of her best friend Ann Perkins 
(Rashida Jones), and the merger between Pawnee and 
its neighbor and rival city, Eagleton.
The last few episodes took the show to a new level, as it 
was revealed that Leslie and husband Ben Wyatt (Adam 
Scott) are expecting triplets  the always-overachieving 
Leslie had even managed to overachieve a family.
To top it off, Leslie was still mulling over a major job 
offer from the National Parks Service that would require 
a move to Chicago. It was only halfway through the 
episode that Leslie decided to take the job, which left 
about 20 minutes for viewers to wonder how the show 
was going to progress next season.
In fact, much of the episode felt like a series, rather than 
a season, ?nale, as all the characters examined their own 
lives and voiced their appreciation of them. This show 
depends heavily on its supporting cast for humor and 
actual storylines, so any major decisions made by Leslie 
need to be examined in terms of everyone else.
Set against the Pawnee-Eagleton Unity Concert, 
Moving Up saw Ron Swanson (Nick Offerman) reaf?rm 
his commitment to family life, while April Ludgate 
(Aubrey Plaza) and Andy Dwyer (Chris Pratt) reaf?rm 
their status as the most perfectly dysfunctional couple 
on TV.
Meanwhile, former Parks employee Tom Haverford (Aziz 
Ansari) ?nally opens  his newest business venture, 
Toms Bistro, with some help from his friends, some 
Pawnee celebrities, and some actual celebrities. After 
a few hiccups, the restaurant actually turns out to be a 
success.
Parks and Recreation has always been an 
underappreciated comedy. Despite continuous threat of 
cancelation, the whole team manages to turn out quality, 
heartfelt episodes every week.
This week was no exception. It was nice after a season 
that sometimes felt like a downer to see everyone 
legitimately happy in their lives.
Even moves that could seem like cop-outs, such as 
Leslie convincing her new boss to move the Chicago 
operation to Pawnee, manage to come off as the most 
natural thing in the world. Of course Leslie would 
manage to move up in the world without ever having to 
move out of Pawnee.
And despite the episodes overarching tone of ?nality, 
the ?nal two minutes ?rmly close out this season and 
simultaneously push the show into the next, and 
possibly ?nal, season.
A three-year time jump gives the writers room to 
jump head ?rst into Leslies new roles, both personal 
and professional, without having to deal with all the 
transitions.
Its nice to see a show grow and develop while still 
maintaining everything that makes it great. Parks and 
Recreation is consistently funny and entertaining, but 
continues to ?nd new ways to make a small town in 
Indiana seem like the best place in the world.
Mairad Pettit | Personnel Manager
Parks and Recreation moving up but not out
Season six ?nale leaves many characters on a high note, sets up seventh and likely ?nal season
Andie Park | Staffwriter
In one of the most iconic ?lms ever, the Pythonites return to help King Arthur in his quest to ?nd the Holy Grail. What ensues are anachronistic 
characters, Trojan rabbits, and crazy musical numbers that somehow create one of the funniest ?lms of all time. Directed by the brilliant Terry Gilliam, 
Monty Python and the Holy Grail  is a hysterical yet twisted take on Camelot that is highly imaginative and inspired. Warning: you might suffer from 
self-induced asphyxiation from the constant laughs throughout the movie. Be prepared. Free with Carnegie Mellon ID, $3 admission without one.
Monty Python and the Holy Grail
Friday, May 2  9, 11
Saturday, May 3  9, 11
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 04.28.1498feature
pillbox 04.28.14
The voices of young Pittsburgh artists rang out over 
the College of Fine Arts lawn this past Saturday in a 
combination of rap and hip-hop songs. They belonged to 
the participants of Arts Greenhouse, a hip-hop education 
program for Pittsburgh teenagers that is af?liated with 
Carnegie Mellon. The students come to campus every 
Saturday from September to April to practice making 
music and to record their songs in CFAs basement 
recording studios. 
During the performance, students in Arts Greenhouse 
showcased their work from this semester. There was also 
a cookout with free food for anyone who came to watch. 
The soundcheck took a few minutes, and the Arts 
Greenhouse students wandered around the CFA steps, 
sometimes participating in the soundcheck, but mainly 
talking and joking with each other. 
One of the goals of the program is to foster community 
between the high school students themselves, and it 
seems to have succeeded in that goal. Khalil Sellers, a 
senior at The Neighborhood Academy, said [Being in 
Arts Greenhouse] de?nitely impacted my life. These 
guys are my best friends. Were always hanging out, 
making music. Im always collabing with these guys. 
Sellers goes by the stage name K.I.P. and plans to pursue 
music as a full-time career, though he plans to move to 
Denver after graduating high school to work in design. 
Other students concurred with Sellerss sentiments. 
Naomi Dowden, a sophomore at the Barack Obama 
Academy of International Studies, said, I really like the 
atmosphere. All these people have the same passion, 
music.... Its an open environment that I can escape 
to. Dowden occasionally sings, but her main focus is 
songwriting. She stated that being in Arts Greenhouse 
helped her discover her talents. It made me realize 
the talent I have inside me. It made me realize I always 
want writing to be a part of my life, she said. After high 
school, Dowden plans to attend college in New York City 
and pursue a career in acting.
After the soundcheck ended, the performances began. 
The ?rst two songs, Groovin and AGs Diner, 
featured many different students collaborating together. 
Groovin showcased Dowden, Sellers, Allie Rose, Sovren 
Gray, and Imani Jai Chisom, while AGs Diner featured 
Dowden, Chisom, Rose, Gray, Arthur King, and Hussein 
Salim. The students were all talented, and the two songs 
started off the performances well because they both had 
good rhythms.
Though the group songs were quite good, the 
individually performed songs that followed were even 
better. Sellers was up ?rst, performing an original song 
called Love Jones. Sellers had good stage presence and 
got his audience to sing along with him, keeping them 
engaged and entertained.
Next up was Obama Academy sophomore Imani Jai 
Chisom. She also performed an original song, called Mr. 
Cigarette. As Chisom walked up to the microphone, 
she said, This song is called Mr. Cigarette. I dont 
support cigarettes, though. Only a few seconds into 
her song, the wind that had been blowing through the 
crowd pushed her skirt up. Chisom was clearly ?ustered, 
but recovered gracefully as her Arts Greenhouse peers 
encouraged her to sit down and keep singing. So she sat 
on the stone CFA steps and restarted her song. She had 
a truly enchanting voice that stood out even among her 
talented peers, and even though she may not personally 
endorse cigarettes, she sang about them with a lovely 
kind of longing.
Another standout performance followed Chisoms, 
given by City Charter High School sophomore Montell 
Frazier. Frazier is a rapper and producer and goes by the 
stage name Cargo FL. He performed his latest single, 
called Bad Guys. He rapped with a soulful intensity, 
occasionally stretching his arms out to the crowd. Bad 
Guys, among some of Fraziers other work, is available 
to listen to on SoundCloud. 
After the last individual performance  Taylor Allderdice 
High School junior Sovren Gray performing a song called 
FUBU  the show returned to a more collaborative 
format, with four to ?ve students up on the steps at any 
Arts Greenhouse concert gives local high school musicians the stage
Carnegie Mellons hip-hop education program provides music experience, social support for Pittsburgh teenagers
Freestylers Khalil Sellers (K.I.P.) and Michaela Hammer performed at the Arts Greenhouse concert on the CFA 
Lawn, which happened on Saturday.
                  Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
by Chloe Thompson | Senior Staffwriter[]
given time. All the while, the students who were not 
performing stood before the steps in a tight knot, smiling 
and calling encouragement to their friends. When 
performers entreated them to put their hands in the air 
or sing along, they did so with more enthusiasm than 
anyone else watching. They ?lmed each other with their 
phones and took pictures to immortalize the moment. 
Eventually, the scheduled songs came to an end, but the 
students performed more pieces, including a rap battle. 
These kids are like every other teenager, said Arts 
Greenhouse co-founder Riccardo Schulz, an assistant 
teaching professor in the School of Music. Except  
theyre polite. They dont say like after ever other word. 
They relate well to adults, and theyre not self-conscious 
about that. They are also very supportive of each other. 
Schulz co-founded Arts Greenhouse with history 
professor Judith Schachter 12 years ago. Schulz said 
that he wanted to ful?ll a community need. I decided 
it would be a good thing to share with the community. 
There are a lot of young folks who have talent, but no 
place to record.
Schulz also stated that he wanted to give Carnegie 
Mellon engineers the opportunity to interact with 
people from the greater Pittsburgh community, as well 
as inspire local teens to pursue higher education. I 
wanted to help teenagers ?nd their identity and give 
them the idea that college is not out of their reach. Yes, 
you can apply to college. You could go to college, he 
said. He spoke of senior business administration major 
Kai Roberts, a former participant and current mentor of 
Arts Greenhouse, as an example of an Arts Greenhouse 
student who decided to pursue higher education at 
Carnegie Mellon.  
Roberts isnt the only current Carnegie Mellon student 
involved in Arts Greenhouse. Several students from 
history professor Nico Slates Sustainable Social Change 
class have become involved with the program this 
past semester. These students include sophomore 
global studies and human-computer interaction double 
major Lucy Pei, junior global studies and professional 
writing double major Alexandria Hernandez, sophomore 
economics, statistics, and global studies triple major 
Jillian Ward, junior architecture and global studies 
double major Andrea Saloman, and senior global studies 
major Christian Manoli. Pei and Saloman work on 
student pro?les and publicizing the organization, while 
Hernandez teaches spoken-word poetry.
The kids are really passionate in a way thats beyond 
their years, Hernandez said. Its inspiring to work 
with them, not for them. They really teach alongside 
me. Manoli shared this sentiment, saying, I like Arts 
Greenhouse because it transcends the traditional 
classroom. The students are the teachers, and were the 
students. We talk about a plethora of issues, from politics 
to music.... The passion is really what draws me.
This environment of passion drew many Arts 
Greenhouse students, and many of the students spoke 
about how Arts Greenhouse has made them feel safe 
and free to explore their natural talents. Malaisha 
Thompson, a sophomore at Obama Academy, said, I 
like the freedom that we have. Every song is just ours. 
Well, its AGs, but its ours. Another Obama Academy 
sophomore, Jada Lowe, said Its a cool environment. 
Theres no judgment here; youre here to just be free. 
Feeling safe is an important part of a healthy teenage 
experience, and that comfort is especially important for 
artistic pursuits. Arts Greenhouse gives talented local 
teens the space and the means to expand their abilities 
 sometimes abilities that they didnt even know they 
had  while simultaneously allowing Carnegie Mellon 
students to interact with Pittsburgh residents in a more 
intimate way. Next spring semester, take a break from 
?nals preparation and check out an amazing community 
collaboration that produces some quality music.
Top: Montell Frazier (Cargo FL), a sophomore at City Charter High School, performs at the concert on Saturday. 
In addition to collaborative work, he sang his latest single, Bad Guys. Bottom: Students from the Arts 
Greenhouse project hang out in front of the CFA building after their concert.
                  Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
                  Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 04.28.14
Kresge Theatre was abuzz on Friday afternoon in 
anticipation of a special guest talk. The last time this 
guest was in Pittsburgh, it was 1964, not long before his 
works began to gain popularity. Since the 1960s, this 
man has been a major ?gure in propelling classical music 
to an entirely new world.
Musical celebrity Philip Glass shuf?ed on stage a few 
minutes late to tumultuous applause. He walked with 
the slow ease of a man in his later years, and greeted 
the audience with the familiarity of a musician who is 
no stranger to the stage. His casual mannerisms and 
modest attire did not indicate his fame for composing 
beloved compositions such as Einstein on the Beach, 10 
symphonies, and a series of operas, nor that hed won 
a Golden Globe and has been nominated for several 
Academy Awards for his ?lm scores.
Richard Randall, assistant professor of music theory 
and researcher in the College of Fine Arts, followed the 
composer on stage and began the conversation. Glass 
was witty, comfortable, and likably straightforward in his 
answers. He admitted how he changed concentrations 
at The Juilliard School from ?ute to composition 
because, frankly, he was better at the latter. He insisted 
that, although some of his most famous works contain 
electronics, he still adheres to a pencil and paper for 
composing.
When speaking about hearing one of his early pieces on 
the radio whilst in Pittsburgh, he casually remarked, It 
wasnt as bad as I thought it was. Glass continued to 
display remarkable modesty throughout the interview, 
most notably when Randall acknowledged his role in 
creating the tonal, repetitive, and easily accessible 
genre of classical music called minimalism. Rather 
than accepting this credit, Glass argued that he was 
not the only composer moving toward something new 
at the time, and that it was the culture as a whole that 
demanded classical music move to a new place.
Regardless of what Glass claimed he did, the effect he 
has had on classical music is enormous. Even Pittsburgh 
has felt his in?uence: Nancy Galbraith, composer and 
professor of composition at Carnegie Mellon, writes 
music tinged with recurring motifs and crystalline 
harmonies reminiscent of Glasss style, and the Carnegie 
Library has more early Glass scores than virtually any 
other library in the world.
As the interview continued, Glass revealed a knack for 
dropping unexpectedly wise advice in such a nonchalant 
way that one could easily miss it. On the subject of never 
turning down opportunities to work, he commented, 
You dont get anything from saying no. It didnt 
hurt Bach, it wont hurt you. He exhibited awareness 
of the legacy he will leave  as well as a sensible 
understanding, acquired from a lifetime of composing 
 that very few things live beyond the maturity of the 
artist. In his opinion, composers will always ?nd their 
distinct sound. Losing your voice is the hard part, he 
said. Youll be working on that for the rest of your life.
Witnessing a cherished composer speak of his 
own music in an era that acknowledges him for his 
contribution is a rare and precious occasion. It was 
especially relevant to the performers in attendance, 
who were able to get a ?rsthand understanding of what 
exactly the composer wanted. Glass described how 
separating notes into their respective measures can 
get in the way of the music-making; he sees his music 
as grouped into twos and threes instead. He explained 
how rhythmic structure is the ultimate driving factor in 
his compositions. His compositions often dont contain 
any clear melody. Content is not Glasss strength (or 
perhaps content is simply not his point), but rather it is 
the overall form and the progression of one section to the 
next that he focuses on, causing the listener to feel like 
theyve gone on some sort of ambiguous journey.
The audience had a chance to experience this journey 
?rsthand as the interview portion drew to a close and 
the Matisse String Quartet, the School of Musics honors 
string quartet, took the stage. Made up of graduate and 
postgraduate students, they played a clear, engaging 
rendition of Glass String Quartet No. 5, one of the 
gems of Glasss chamber music repertoire. The piece is 
bookended by an elegy-like theme and ?lled in with walls 
of lively harmony driven forward by perpetual rhythms. 
It is head-bobbing music, but with subtle changes here 
and there that make it impossible to predict when the 
head should bob.
Needless to say, Kresge Theatre was swept along for 
the ride as the student ensemble deftly and artfully 
executed the piece. The cellist, masters student in 
cello performance Marlene Ballena, and violist, masters 
student in viola performance Si Yu, were the soul of this 
performance. They played synonymously in articulation 
and color, and werent afraid to drive the quartet 
forward. While the upper strings didnt quite achieve the 
same blended sound as their counterparts, there was no 
mistaking the brilliance of their performance.
The audience was quick to enthusiastially applaud. The 
de?ning moment occurred when Glass himself walked 
onto the stage to shake the hands of the students, 
smiling widely. He seemed immensely pleased with 
their performance. Seeing the ?ve of them bow together 
offered a rare and special moment of unity between a 
renowned composer and student performers.
Alyssa Wang | Junior Staffwriter
Philip Glass re?ects on his compositions
Celebrated classical music composer gives a talk sponsored by the School of Music
Celebrated composer Philip Glass spoke to Carnegie 
Mellon students in Kresge Theatre last Friday. 
Courtesy of Pasquale Salerno via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.28.1411
Puns by Swetha Kannan
kan_swetha@yahoo.com
Up in the Air by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro
buttersafe@gmail.com  www.buttersafe.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 04.28.14
Carol by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.28.1413
Solutions from April 21
Tough DifficultyCrossword
Maze Puzzle: Animal Difficulty Madlib Puzzle: Very Fun Difficulty
Madlib courtesy of www.madglibs.comMaze courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start from the trunk of the elephant and find your way out.Fill in the blanks to create a fun, engaging story.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 04.28.14
 1. Comedian Carvey
 2. Thames town
 3. Env. notation
 4. Legal science
 5. Insignificant
 6. Lug
 7. Ultimatum word
 8. Phooey!
 9. Rx watchdog
10. Peace Nobelist Sakharov
11. Star Wars princess
12. Sea eagles
13. Periphery
18. Diamond cover
19. Approaches
23. On the briny
24. Toll rds.
25. PC shortcut
26. Designer Mizrahi
27. Gauchos rope
28. Surgery sites, briefly
29. Old French expression meaning 
goodbye
30. Layers
31. Congers
32. Hydroxyl compound
36. Member of a great Peruvian people
37. Amigo
38. Puerto ___
40. Fall bloomer
41. Resembling a feather
43. Bring up to current moment
44. Yellowish brown pigment
45. Struck, old-style
48. Dame ___ Everage
49. Hammer head
50. Not closed
51. What ___ mind reader?
52. Adolescent
53. Untruths, tells falsehoods
54. Poet Pound
55. Extremely
57. Pampering, briefly
58. Acapulco article
 1. Distributed cards
 6. Slave
10. Hard ___! (sailors yell)
14. Essential oil
15. Dressed
16. Dweeb
17. In spite of
20. Abbys twi
21. Valleys
22. Clear the boards
23. Leedss river
24. ___ kwon do
25. Put to a wrong use
32. Art supporter
33. Bothers
34. Conk out
35. Final Four org.
36. Bridge declaration
38. Cambodian currency
39. Man-mouse connector
40. Med school subj.
41. Wharves
42. First appearance of an influential 
phrase or idea
46. Mom-and-pop org.
47. ___ expert, but...
48. Form of lyrical poem
51. Dined at home
53. Monetary unit of Bulgaria
56. Divide up
59. Depilatory brand
60. Legal claim
61. Its human
62. Actress Heche
63. Injectable diazepam, in military 
lingo
64. Short literary composition
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Take a 10-minute walk: Walking helps clear your head 
and boosts endorphins, which reduces stress hormones. 
Consider walking somewhere with lots of vegetation. Trees 
naturally release chemicals that boost your immune system 
and relieve stress.
taurus
april 20may 20
Try doing some yoga: Breaking exercises help you relax 
and reduce the built up tension and stress. Yoga is 
characterized by deep breathing, as opposed to shallow 
breathing that stimulates the sympathetic nervous system, 
which creates stress.
gemini
may 21june 21
Eat a snack: Stress-eating isnt always a bad thing. The 
gut-brain axis is the connection between the gut and the 
brain  more and more researchers have produced data 
that pegs the gut as a major mediator of stress response.
cancer
june 22july 22
Buy yourself a plant: Houseplants dont just beautify a 
room. They can actually help you calm down; simply being 
around plants can make you more relaxed.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Step away from the screen: There is a direct coloration 
between stress and late-night computer use. Make sure 
to take frequent breaks when you use your computer 
throughout the day.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Pucker up: Kissing relieves stress by calming your body and 
creating a sense of connection. Kissing releases endorphins 
into your bloodstream that combat stress and depression.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Put on some music: While classical music has a particularly 
soothing effect by slowing down your heart rate and 
lowering your blood pressure, it also decreases your level 
of stress. Any music that you love will flood your brain with 
good-feeling neurochemicals.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Spend time with friends: The best way to wind down after a 
long day is to talk it over with your best friend. Friends are 
great for both fun and comfort.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Craft: Repetitive motions like the fine motor skills used to 
knit, make jewelry, or cross stitch can soothe anxiety. It puts 
the mind in a comfortable, easy state.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Drink green tea: Green tea contains theanine, an amino 
acid that gives the tea flavor and promotes relaxation. It 
counteracts the stimulating effects of caffeine that can 
worsen stress response.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Open the window: Just looking out your window can have 
a relaxing effect. Looking out at a city landscape or a nature 
scene slows down your heart rate. Its a lot more effective 
than looking at a picture  the brain is not so easily fooled.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Work out: Working out is a great way to take a bite out of 
tension. When you are mentally tired, intense exercise can 
make you more stressed. Light-to-moderate exercise wont 
improve your fitness, but will lighten your mood.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.28.1415
MONDAY 4.28.14
Justice is Mind Screening. Giant Eagle Auditorium. 
5 p.m.
This ?lm, set in a time when fMRI technology is readily 
used to decode a persons thoughts, follows the trial 
of a person accused of a double murder who doesnt 
remember committing the crime. This event is free and 
open to the public. Pizza and refreshments will be served.
Carnegie Mellon University Jazz Orchestra. 
Carnegie Music Hall. 8 p.m.
The orchestra will be performing jazz classics in a big 
band style, with special guests Lincoln Park Performing 
Arts Center Saxophone Group and Carnegie Mellons 
JIVE (Jazz Improv Vocal Ensemble). Admission is $5, but 
free with a valid Carnegie Mellon ID.
TUESDAY 4.29.14
Lucky After Dark. Giant Eagle Auditorium. 4:30 p.m.
Carnegie Mellons Center for the Arts in Society will host 
a lecture by Carnegie Mellons director of the Humanities 
Scholars Program Timothy Haggerty and the centers 
own artist-in-residence Harrison Apple regarding the 
upcoming exhibit of the same name that will explore the 
role after-hours nightlife in postwar Pittsburgh played in 
establishing and shaping gay and lesbian identities. This 
event is free and open to the public.
THURSDAY 5.1.14
Lucas Barkley, Collaborative Piano. 
Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
Masters student in collaborative piano performance 
Lucas Barkley will be performing a recital featuring the 
music of Franz Schubert, Francis Poulenc, and Johannes 
Brahms. Admission is free and open to the public.
Pierrot Lunaire. George R. White Studio at Pittsburgh 
Opera. 8 p.m.
Arnold Schoenbergs famous setting of Albert Girauds 
Pierrot Lunaire poems will be performed live in its entirety. 
Admission is free and open to the public.
Cluster Truck. CFA Lawn. 5 p.m.
This outdoor art installation features eight College of 
Fine Arts students using eight U-Haul trucks as their 
personal gallery to showcase performances, sculptural 
installations, and participatory works. This event is free 
and open to the public.
FRIDAY 5.2.14
Carnegie Mellon University Contemporary Music 
Ensemble. Kresge Theatre, CFA. 8 p.m.
The ensemble will be performing the works of Charles 
Wuorinen, Simon Steen-Andersen, Marian Marquez, and 
John Adams. Admission is free and open to the public.
OPENING
Actual Size. Miller Gallery. Through May 17.
This exhibition of graduating-senior artwork spans 
video, performance, drawing, printmaking, photography, 
painting, sculpture, interactive, and code-based works, 
and more. There will be an opening reception on Friday, 
May 2 from 68 p.m., and an artist and faculty talk on 
Tuesday, May 6 from 14 p.m. Admission to the Miller 
Gallery is free and open to the public.
ONGOING
RACE: Are We So Different? Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History. Through Oct. 27.
This exhibit explores the experience of living with race in 
America, using interactive multimedia components. 
Digital Hand. 709 Penn Gallery. 
Through May 25.
This exhibition includes works created by Pennsylvania 
State University students exploring the sculptural 
possibilities of digital fabrications. Admission is free.
Electri?ed. Wood Street Galleries. 
Through June 22. 
Artists Edwin van der Heide and Alexandre Burton 
pay homage to the work of Nikola Tesla and his 
pioneering experiments in electricity, X-rays, and wireless 
communication in two installations seeing their North 
American premiere. Admission is free.
The Occasional Market. 707 Penn Gallery. 
Through June 22.
This art project by artist Tom Sarver turns the 707 
Gallery into a communal gathering space, a place where 
stories are told and relationships established, featuring 
unscheduled activities and drop-ins from the artist himself 
and various drawings, sculptures, and collections of 
objects. Admission is free.
Candida. OReilly Theater. Through May 18. 
Presented by the Pittsburgh Public Theater, George 
Bernard Shaws Candida tells the story of Candida, who 
is caught in the middle of a romantic war between her 
practical husband John Morell and the passionate poet 
Eugene Marchbanks. Tickets start at $23 and can be 
purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 04.28.14
Josh Smith | Contributing Editor
Last Thursday, Brooklyn-based singer/songwriter Kevin Garrett gave 
a free performance in Skibo Caf. The event was sponsored by the 
Activities Board and signaled the end of a great academic year for the 
organization, which brought Chiddy Bang, Icona Pop, and many others 
to campus.
kevin garrett.
