Inside
..............114
.................11
.................L6
.................L9
....................6
Living............................................................LI
Sports..............................................................9
The Tartan will not 
publish next week 
because of midsemester break.
Living
International Festival 
preview  see page L5
Dossier
Debut of new format 
for design mag
THE TRTAN
Volume 90, Issue 6Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 19069 October 1995
Up all night
Parties mark The Carnegies 100th
Pitt debit-card program...
CMU wont get 
Choice soon
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
The Carnegie kicked off its 100th birthday 
celebration on Friday night with a 28-hour, 
citywide birthday party.
The doors opened at 5 pm at the museums, 
the music hall, and the library in Oakland, and 
at the Andy Warhol Museum and the Carnegie 
Science Center on the North Side. Free shuttle 
buses trav
eled from lo
cation to lo
cation.
Besides after-hours 
visits to the 
usual exhib
its, visitors 
could attend 
a drag pag
eant at the Warhol, a rave at the Science 
Center, a cult film festival at the Museum of 
Art, and dance to the sounds of the Nixon 
Clocks at the Music Hall. They were also in
vited to meet museum and library employees 
behind the scenes as they demonstrated their 
crafts.
We really wanted to give back to the com
munity, and thank them for their support of 
our facilities and for their, patronage, said 
Pamela Pochapin, assistant director of mar
keting for The Carnegie.
Lastyear, when we opened the Andy Warhol 
Museum for 24 hours, we had 25,000 people 
visit, said Pochapin, who was greeting visitors 
in Oakland. Based on that success, we saw 
Please see CARNEGIE, page 3
Related story and photos, 
page LI.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Visitors to The Caitiegie Museum of Natural History on Friday night got a behind the 
scenes look at archeologists at work.
Graffiti in CFA elevator comes dean
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Hunger is something that af
fects everyone on campus. What 
happens when youre in the mood 
for something different?
What if you could call Yellow 
Cab, grab dinner at Ritters, cof
fee at the Beehive, and some gro
ceries at Giant Eagle for later, 
and pay for it all with your CMU 
ID?
Students at Pitt and at other 
universities across the country 
already do. With the University 
of Pittsburghs Choice Dollars 
program, institutedlastyear, stu
dents can deposit money into their 
accounts in increments of $50 and
We can hardly keep up 
with the program ... it's 
only going to get bigger.  
Betsy Sallade-Farina, 
Pitt dining services
spend the money on campus and 
at a variety of off-campus busi
nesses.
Participating businesses in
clude Bobby Os, Dominos Pizza, 
The Fishery Wharf, Pamelas Res
taurant, 7-11, Uncle Sams Subs, 
and others.
Betsy Sallade-Farina, director
another account for miscella
neous items.
We can hardly keep up with 
the program, she said. Here at 
Pitt, we have the largest Choice 
Dollars program in the United 
States. Thats measured by mer
chants, not a dollar figure. We 
are also checking into adding 
vending machines, a bagel place, 
another pizza shop, and possibly 
an ice cream place.
With Choice Dollars, students 
never have to carry a cent on 
them when they want to eat offcampus. Would such a system 
work at CMU?
Mark Hamlin, director of CMU 
Dining Services, said that CMDS 
fragile finances are one thing that
____________ could make a
CMU choice dol
lars program 
risky.
We are all for 
providing variety 
and option so that 
students come 
away with a good 
feeling and expe
rience, but our 
meal plans are 
currently priced 
to cover the costs of operation, 
he said. Hamlin said hes not sure 
what impact, if any, the system 
would have on the departments 
revenue.
We try to give students the 
option of going to other places to 
eat, such as Dominos, but we
dont want to encourage them to
of dining services for Pitt, said, eat elsewhere, he said.
| By HEATHER ZINDLE
I Tartan Staffwriter'
( People who use the CFA elevaj tor will notice something miss
ing. The scrawls, graffiti, andlay! ers of paint have been sandblasted 
' off, and stainless-steel panels 
I have been installed.
I According to Martin Altschul, 
| director of operations and utili
ties for Facilities Management 
Services, the Art Department 
went to FMS and asked that the 
elevator be refurbished.
We decided it could use a new 
skin, Altschul said. We tried to 
use something that was less
paintable than the old cab. 
Safety was a factor, toothere 
were so many layers of paint that 
they added significantly to the 
weight of the elevator.
Painting the elevator seems to 
be a tradition, especially with art 
students, but its not seen the 
same way as painting the Fence 
is. According to Campus Police, 
those who are caught painting 
the elevator can be subject to pun
ishment as decided by Student 
Affairs.
But Altschul said that FMS 
wasnt trying to stamp out the 
tradition.
The idea was not to create a
hardship for anyone, he said.
CFA students have mixed feel
ings about painting the elevator. 
Some see it as a form of expres
sion; others feel that its often 
pointless. Some students said 
that whats painted is often unin
telligible or simply offensive.
Dameta Skinner, a junior art 
major, said the elevator means 
somethingto art students. Ifthey 
have something to say, they put 
it in the elevator, she said. She 
called the graffiti reactionary 
and avant garde.
Skinner doesnt think the new 
finish will stop the graffiti. It 
was a wasted process, she says.
According to Skinner, many 
people complain about the graf
fiti, especially staffers from other 
CFA departments.
Skinner said she often painted 
the elevator late in the day on 
Fridays. Then, when she went to 
her job as a work-study in the Art 
Department, she would hear com
plaints about the elevator.
I dont know if it was the van
dalism or just the paint, said 
Skinner.
But she said there are different 
types of painters  some people 
have concepts, and others just 
vandalize.
Please see ELEVATOR, page 5
the university is very pleased 
with Choice Dollars so far.
Last year, I walked up and 
down Forbes Avenue and went to 
the merchants, she said. We 
gave the merchants on the Choice 
Dollars program the equipment 
at no cost and hoped for the best. 
What we got was much more than 
we had ever hoped for. After 
implementing the program, it 
began to go through the roof. This 
program is completely voluntary 
for students. We feel its only go
ing to get bigger.
Sallade-Farina said that the 
university is looking into adding 
an account for the bookstore and
Annette Allison, director of con
tracted services for Business Ser
vices, also wants to students to 
stay on campus. Weve been 
working with the Student Dining 
Committee trying to find out what 
the students would like to see, 
she said. We would like to de
velop a flexible dining process 
that allows students to have the 
freedom to choose.
Hamlin said that CMU is also 
limited by technological con
straints.
We are somewhat limited by 
our current access system, 
Hamlin said. We would need a 
Please see CHOICE, page 5
Sig Ep members initiated after one-week recruiting drive
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
A week after recruiting efforts began, Sigma 
Phi Epsilon, CMUs newest fraternity, has initi
ated its first brothers.
Sig Ep was outside Doherty Hall last week to 
encourage men to come to one of two information 
sessions. The first members of the fraternity 
have already been initiated as the Founding 
Fathers of the CMU chapter.
Sig Ep stresses that its not a conventional 
fraternity, but the speed of the initiation process
 which doesnt include a conventional pledge 
period  surprised many people. You learn the 
secrets of the fraternity as you go, said Clayton 
Funk, director of new chapter development for
Sig Ep.
Attendance at both meetings was high  55 
students came Wednesday and 34 Thursday. 
Several of the meetings attendants came after 
getting a phone call from a Sig Ep representative 
saying they had been recommended by a friend 
in a sorority.
Sororities tend to be more receptive to our 
message, said Funk, and we only have a small 
amount of time to spend on each campus.
Kevin Collins, a junior biology major, said he 
decided to attend the meeting after Sig Ep con
tacted him. The idea of starting a new fraternity 
on campus was cool, Collins said.
At the meeting, students were invited to sched
ule an interview with the Sig Ep representa
tives. From tliose interviews, 40 men received 
bids. Those who accepted their bids were initi
ated last night.
Collins said that the presentation was good, 
but he decided not to sign up for an interview. I 
liked their concept, but I think you need a little 
more structure, he said. If they get a lot of spirit 
in the beginning, they can be successful.
Sig Ep had a chapter at Carnegie Tech from 
1925 to 1937. Since then, it has become one of the 
largest fraternities in the country, with 15,000 
undergraduate members and 270 chapters.
It recolonized at CMU after getting approval 
from Interfratemity Council, and will have to 
abide by the existing rules of IFC and Greek 
Council for events such as formal Spring Rush.
He said that the national organization looked 
at CMUs academic reputation, the history of Sig 
Ep at CMU, and also asked Is the campus ready 
for us?
Funk sees the arrival of the new fraternity as 
a breath of fresh^airr
Every new fraternity brings about change 
and always for the better, said Funk.
Sig Ep keeps a very strict social policy, and the
fraternitys theme is the Balanced Man  
brothers are expected to be leaders, athletes, 
scholars, and gentlemen.
And the national takes a hard line toward 
alcohol. All parties are BYOB and by invite only. 
If you get an invite to a Sig Ep party, you feel 
special, Funk said.
We [Greek Council] hope that Sig Ep has 
something new to contribute and can make the 
Greek community stronger, said Greek Council 
President Jeff Polega, a junior ECE major.
Kirk Morgan, a junior civil engineering major, 
was among those who was called after Sig Ep 
reps got his name from a sorority. He did sign up 
for an interview and was given a bid, but de
clined.
Morgan said that although the Balanced Man 
Project was supposed to provide things that 
make its members a more balanced person but, 
a fraternity is not going to do that for me.
He was interested in some of the social ele
ments of Greek Life, like Greek Sing, but he said, 
there is a price for that and for now my commit
ments lie in other areas.
Kevin Cackovic, a junior ECE major, was still 
trying to decide on Sunday whether or not he 
would accept his bid. Four out of the five people 
he lives with were given bids to the fraternity 
Please see SIG EP, page 3
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Representatives from Sigma Phi Epsilon spread the word 
last week in front of Doherty Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995
  
White House, GOP sound off on Bosnia cease-fire
Perry: Russians wont have equal command
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 6 (DJ)
 The North Atlantic Treaty Organi
zation is eager to include Russia in a 
military force to implement a Bosnia 
peace deal, but will not cross the red 
line of giving Moscow an equal com
mand role, Defense Secretary Will
iam Perry said.
Perry said he would sound out his 
Russian counterpart, Pavel Grachev, 
on the limits of Russias flexibility at a 
meeting in Geneva.
We will be as flexible and creative 
as possible, Perry told a news confer
ence before the closing session of a 
two-day conference of NATO defense 
ministers. But there will be a red line 
over which we cannot cross.
That line, Perry said, is the require
ment that command of a peace imple
mentation force in Bosnia be unified 
under NATO, not shared with Rus
sian generals.
We will not establish a dual key 
over military operations in Bosnia, 
he said.
Michael Portillo, the British defense
minister, told a news conference the 
main condition for participation by 
Russia, which is not a NATO member, 
was its agreement to give the alliance 
full control.
NATO has agreed that no allied force 
will be sent to Bosnia until a final 
peace deal is signed. Peace negotia
tions are to begin near the end of this 
month.
Perry declined to say what propos
als he would make to Grachev at their 
meeting Sunday.
Among ideas mentioned by U.S. of
ficials speaking privately during the 
Williamsburg meeting is having Rus-. 
sia involved in support roles such is 
transportation, engineering and logis
tics rather than policing the lines of 
separation that presumably will be 
created in Bosnia as part of a peace 
settlement.
Perry emphasized the importance of 
finding a way to accommodate the 
Russians, who were upset with NATOs 
bombing of the Bosnian Serbs, tradi
tional Russian allies.
Dole: Clinton will need okay to send troops
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 6 (DJ)
 Senate Majority Leader Robert 
Dole, R-Kan., said Congress would 
hold hearings concerning the possible 
involvement of U.S. armed forces in 
Bosnia.
Doles remarks at a Capitol Hill press 
conference came after President 
Clintons foreign policy address ear
lier today at the White House, where 
the president discussed isolationism, 
the Bosnia cease-fire agreement, and 
lifting travel restrictions between the 
U.S. and Cuba.
Dole urged Clinton to seek congres
sional approval before U.S. troops en
gaged in any military involvement in 
Bosnia.
If the president believes hes al
ready made his case to send 25,000
Americans to Bosnia, he is sadly mis
taken, Dole said.
Dole added that a group of senators, 
led by U.S. Sen. Ted Stevens, RAlaska., would travel to Europe next 
week to assess plans for American 
involvment. Hearings in both the 
House and Senate will follow that trip, 
Dole said.
Dole said that Congress will ask the 
President to quantify any troop move
ments: How many weeks, how many 
months, how many years and how 
much, how many millions, how many 
billions will it cost? Legislators also 
would question the need to send Ameri
can troops. Why not just lift the arms 
embargo and let the Bosnians defend 
themselves? said Dole, a longtime 
advocate of lifting the embargo.
U.S. media will return to Cuba
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 5 (DJ)
 President Clinton has decided to 
allow U.S. news organizations to open 
bureaus in Cuba as part of an effort to 
increase communication between Cu
bans and Americans, administration 
officials said.
Clinton also announced that he 
hopes to increase academic exchanges 
between the two countries.
The idea of allowing news bureaus 
to operate in Cuba has been in the
works for almost two years. The ad
ministration has been holding back on 
an announcement because of opposi
tion by some Cuban exile lawmakers.
The last American news organiza
tion was expelled from Cuba in the 
late 1960s. Successive administra
tions have denied the media permis
sion to open offices in Cuba since then 
because of the U.S. embargo against 
the island.
Cuban officials had no comment.
USAir CEO stays 
for merger talks
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 5 (DJ)  USAir 
said it will postpone its search for a new 
chairman and chief executive until it 
completes talks with United Airlines 
and American Airlines over a possible 
merger.
A USAir spokesman said Seth E. 
Schofield agreed to the boards request 
that he stay on as chairman and CEO 
until the buyout discussions resolve 
themselves, one way or another. The 
spokesman wouldnt speculate on when 
the talks would be considered resolved. 
It just makes sense to have continuity 
of leadership, he said.
USAir disclosed on Oct. 2 that it was 
in preliminary discussions with United 
and American over a possible alliance or 
acquisition. The news sent shock waves 
through the airline industry, although 
many analysts consider the deal a longshot because of USAirs financial 
troubles.
Schofield, 56, is a 38-year company 
veteran. He announced his plans to re
tire three weeks ago, saying he would 
remain only until a successor was found. 
The announcement surprised many ana
lysts. Just a day earlier, USAir had said 
it expected to post its first pretax profit 
in six years.
Last week, Sir Colin Marshall, chair
man of British Airways PLC and a USAir 
director, said there was no rush to find a 
replacement for Schofield, arguing that 
the airline simply wanted to find the 
best-qualified candidate. British Air 
owns 24.6 percent of USAir.
Industry analysts had been trying to 
guess who might be on USAirs wish list. 
But now, with the company possibly 
going to be purchased, the new CEO 
could wind up being an executive of 
either American or United. It is unlikely 
that any talent search would get very far 
today.
FBI stepping up 
terrorism watch
WASHINGTON, D.C., Oct. 4 (DJ)  
The FBI is stepping up a terrorist watch 
at high-profile events this month like 
the Popes visit, a United Nations cel
ebration and the World Series. But it 
remains well aware that retaliation for 
Sundays terrorism convictions might 
not occur for months, even years.
We dont have any specific informa
tion as to any planned activity by any 
group, anywhere, Deputy FBI Director 
Weldon Kennedy told The Associated 
Press last week.
However, a reasonable and prudent 
person, based on the historical back
ground, would expect that there may 
very well be retaliation against the 
United States government or United 
States citizens for this case. This verdict 
raises the stakes tremendously, 
Kennedy said.
Sundays conviction in New York of 
Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman and nine 
others of seditious conspiracy spurred 
heightened security at airports, govern
ment facilities, and the White House.
The FBI stepped up our vigilance and 
intelligence contacts worldwide with 
law enforcement and informants who 
have information or might be in a posi
tion to receive information about planned 
activities of groups such as this, 
Kennedy said.
October is going to be a big month for 
us, he said, because of highly visible 
targets for retaliation like Pope John 
Paul IIs visit to the United States this 
week, the U.N.s 50th anniversary cel
ebration in New York this month and 
the World Series of Major League Base
ball.
These are momentous events, and 
because these convictions have now just 
been returned, it heightens the need for 
additional security ... for those kinds of 
events, Kennedy said.
Detroit papers 
taking hard line
DETROIT, Oct. 5 (DJ)  The Detroit 
Newspaper Agency, representing two 
Detroit daily newspapers, said it will 
review the proposal offered by the six 
unions striking the papers.
But striking workers may not have 
jobs to return to.
Six unions representing 2,500 work
ers at the Detroit Newspaper Agency  
a joint venture that under an agreement 
handles the business operations of The 
Detroit News and the Detroit Free Press
 went on strike in July, largely over 
work rules and wage issues. The News is 
owned by Gannett and the Free Press by 
Knight-Ridder Inc.
The offer, a list of principles, included 
new work rules devised by the unions 
that could save $15 million in labor costs 
over three years.
The list of principles also proposes a 
30-day negotiating period, the submis
sion of all unresolved issues to binding 
arbitration, and the return of all strik
ing members to their former positions 
under the term of the contracts that 
expired in April. Detroit Newspapers 
said it will not agree to go to binding 
arbitration after 30 days. The unions 
will not dictate the future of this com
pany and we dont want outsiders doing 
it either, said one recent press release.
Since the unions went on strike, it has 
hired many employees who have helped 
achieve new levels of productivity and 
customer service. We dont intend to 
displace these employees, said a com
pany spokesperson, who said the call to 
bring back all striking employees sim
ply isnt reasonable. Besides the posi
tions that are already filled by newly 
hired employees, Detroit Newspapers 
said that because of increased efficien
cies, it discovered it can get the job done 
with far fewer people.
Boeing struck by 
Machinists
SEATTLE, Oct. 6 (DJ)  Union ma
chinists at Boeing Co. voted overwhelm
ingly to strike Friday, setting up a walk
out that began last weekend at the air
craft makers operations in Washington, 
Kansas and Oregon.
Boeing officials refused to speculate 
on what effect the strike would have on 
the companys ability to complete its 
current contracts.
A spokesman for the International 
Association of Machinists & Aerospace 
Workers union said 19,904 members, or 
76 percent of the 26,304 who voted, re
jected Boeings latest contract proposal.
The spokesman also said20,553 mem
bers, or 78 percent of those voting, fa
vored a strike.
A Boeing spokesman said the com
pany would try to continue producing 
airplanes using supervisory personnel.
Machinist union leaders had recom
mended that members reject the Boeing 
offer and favor a strike. Boeing machin
ists previously struck for 48 days in 
1989.
The most contentious point between 
the two sides has been a union demand 
for assurances that Boeing will halt or 
limit the volume of work it sends to 
subcontractors in the U.S. and in foreign 
countries.
Frank Shrontz, Boeings chairman, has 
said the company absolutely wont agree 
to any such curbs, which, he said, would 
tie the companys hands in trying to cut 
costs and secure overseas jetliner or
ders.
Other countries, which make up the 
largest share of Boeings orders, often 
want aircraft-parts work for their facto
ries when their airlines are agreeing to 
buy planes from U.S. manufacturers.
The job-security issue has been exac
erbated as Boeing aircraft orders and 
deliveries have plummeted in recent 
years. Boeing, which has employed more 
than 57,000 machinists at peak produc
tion, employs about 25,000 of the union 
members in the Seattle area, with about
7.000 in Wichita, Kan., and 1,200 in 
Gresham, Ore.
Oprah will stay 
until 1998
NEW YORK, Oct. 6 (DJ)  King 
World Productions Inc. said Oprah 
Winfrey will continue to host and pro
duce The Oprah Winfrey Show through 
at least the 1997-1998 broadcast season.
In a press release, King World, which 
distributes the show, said Winfrey will 
get options to purchase two million King 
World shares as a result of her decision 
to continue hosting the show.
Winfrey will also receive an additional
250.000 options for each additional year 
during the term of the agreement that 
she elects to continue hosting the show.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayRain gives way to 
clear, mild weather. 
High 65-70, evening 
lows near 50.
Tuesday
Partly sunny, with 
periods of cloudi
ness. High 70-75, 
low 45-50.
WednesdayPartly sunny, with a 
cool morning, and a 
warm afternoon. High 
in the 70s, low near 
40.
Thursday
Mostly sunny; high 
65-75, low near 50.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 9, 
1945: Sorority rushing officially 
opened last Wednesday and will 
continue through Monday. Dur
ing this specified period there is 
to be no contact between sorority 
girls and sophomores, reported 
The Carnegie Tartan.
All preferential bidding shall 
be handles through the Dean of 
Women. The fraternities shall 
hand in Deans Office at 9:30 am 
on October 15, the list of girls 
whom they wish to bid in order of 
preference. If they fail to turn in 
their preference at this time, they 
must wait for a one month period. 
The lists of fraternities and rushees will be matched in the Deans 
office.
25 YEARS AGO, October 8, 
1970: U.S. Senator Frank F. 
Church, D-Idaho, addressed an 
audience of several hundred 
members of the C-MU commu
nity in the Skibo Ballroom.
Church was the second in a 
series of U.S. Senators being 
brought to campus in the fall by 
the Office for Operations in Po
litical Systems (OOPS). The 
evenings program began with a
14-minute prepared address en
titled, Of Presidents and 
Caesars. Church suggested that 
the growing power of the Presi
dent in the realm of war-making 
has been defended by certain mis
conceptions.
An OOPS panel of six students 
directed by moderator Jack Smith 
questioned him for more than 
hour on subjects ranging from 
abortion to the National Guard.
10 YEARS AGO, October 8, 
1985: Ten years ago, the consor
tium thats currently trying to 
sell the Pittsburgh Pirates had 
just stepped up to the plate.
CMU was named as one of a 
group of private and public inves
tors that would buy the Pirates 
for $22 million. (CMUs) involve
ment in no way draws funds from 
University resources, said CMU 
President Richard Cyert.
Cyert had been approached sev
eral years ago before by a friend 
of the University who wished to 
invest in keeping the Pirates in 
Pittsburgh.
While the donor was anony
mous for several years, the Pitts
burgh Post-Gazette recently re
ported that the donor has ties to 
the H. J. Heinz Co.
Mayor Richard Caliguiri said 
the long-awaited deal meant that 
the Pirates would stay in Pitts
burgh for at least five years, 
reported The Tartan.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
1,1990: Freshman physics ma
jor Ravish Momin was struck by 
a car late Saturday night while 
crossing Forbes Avenue toward 
Morewood Gardens, reported 
The Tartan.
Momin was trying to beat the 
light, said Campus Police, and 
was struck by a vehicle coming 
up Forbes Avenue from Oakland.
He was transported via ambu
lance to Presbyterian-University 
Hospital. He was reported at 
home and in good condition. 
According to Campus Police, it 
was unknown whether or not al
cohol was involved.
Compiled by 
LAUREN HEINZ
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME M - NUMBER 3 WEBNESIMY. OCTOBE 12. I!-)
The Tartan will celebrate Its 90th anniversary in 1996. Heres the papers 1960 flag'
T

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 19953Recruiting complete, Sig Ep holds initiation
New members starting from scratch
SIG EP, from page 1
and he said three were planning 
on taking them.
Cackovic can hold his bid until 
next semester. He cited his 
workload as a reason for his hesi
tation. I want to know who else 
will be in it and whether or not I 
get along with them, he said. I 
also have a commitment to my 
work right now.
Funk said there is a lot of ani
mosity towards a new fraternity 
on campus, but that Sig Eps 
plans are to be the best fraternity 
at CMU.
The other fraternities on cam
pus may feel the effect of Sig Ep 
in the future, said Polega.
Instead of splitting the num
ber of potential rushees 13 ways, 
were splitting them 14, he said. 
They have the resources and 
know-how to hopefully improve 
rush on this campus overall. 
Kirk Morgan, a junior civil en
gineering major, said the presen
tation last Thursday was very 
comprehensive.
Sig Ep was very conscious of 
their purpose. I hadnt gotten that
impression from the other frater
nities on campus, he said.
Sig Ep is currently applying for 
on-campus Special Interest Hous
ing with Residence Life, but Funk 
said the fraternity has done well 
without housing on other cam
puses. You never know whats 
opening up on the Quad. Whats a 
mishap for one fraternity is the 
opportunity for another, he said.
In the future, if there is no 
house, Sig Ep will rush at recep
tions and use common rooms for 
meetings. As for joining Greek 
Council and the IFC, Polega said 
its up to the chapter. When they 
are ready to participate theyll 
elect a representative, he said.
The founding fathers will be 
guided by local Sig Ep alumni 
and by the national representa
tives, but much of the chapters 
evolution will be left up to them. 
They have the opportunity to 
make the fraternity what [they] 
want it to be, said Funk.
They will also decide on the 
day-to-day operations of the fra
ternity, including its monthly 
dues.
With 28-hour party...
Carnegie kicks off 15-month celebration
CARNEGIE, from page 1
that Pittsburgh was really interested in 
having a similar event.
Crowds lined the sidewalks at the Warhol 
Museum, packed the museums, and Car
negie Science Center director Seddon 
Bennington said that the turnout there ex
ceeded his wildest expectations.
Whenever you have something like this, 
open to the public, theres always a bit of a 
worry that no one will come, but this is 
wonderful, he said. People really feel fondly 
about The Carnegie. Between 5 and 11 pm,
4,000 visitors streamed through the doors 
of the North Side facility.
The turnout has been excellent, said 
Pochapin. Its been so busy that the main 
galleries in the museum were supposed to 
close at nine oclock, but they stayed open 
until midnight.
The Carnegies Lorene Vinski, assistant 
to the president for corporate affairs, was 
working the front entrance at the Museum 
of Natural History. She said that the make
up of the crowd surprised her.
After nine oclock, we expected to have 
mostly college students, but were having a 
lot of families come through, too, said 
Vinski. At 11 oclock I had a family with a 
couple of small children come through. 
We may have to consider some evening
hours, she added, laughing.
Many of the CMU and Pitt students were 
first-time visitors who were on their way to 
Oakland when they stopped. Local resi
dents said that the open house was an 
opportunity to see a familiar attraction in a 
new light.
Time passes by, and you dont have time 
to come down, said Billie Switzer of 
Greentree. But this was something differ
ent to do on a Friday night.
I think The Carnegie is an exciting place, 
said Beverly Owings of Point Breeze. I 
think the odd hours make it more fun. 
You take something for granted thats 
right in your backyard, and thats why occa
sions like this are really special, said 
Owingscompanion, David DeAngelo of Oak
land. It does put it into the spotlight again. 
We wanted to throw a party, but we also 
wanted to say to the community, thankyou, said Bennington of the Science Cen
ter.
This has been a wonderful experiment 
for us, said Vinski. The city has certainly 
responded.
Steel magnate Andrew .Carnegie donated 
$1 million to the city of Pittsburgh in 1890 
for a library and a music hall. By 1895, the 
first facilities had been completed and dedi
cated.
The Carnegie Institute grew steadily af
ter Carnegie promised to add museums of 
art and natural history. Over the years, it 
gained a reputation as one of the countrys, 
premier educational facilities.
It was an archeological pioneer, making 
some of the countrys most significant dino
saur finds, and the annual Carnegie Inter
national art exhibition, which began in 1896, 
has become one of the most famous in the 
world. The library has increased its services 
over the years as well, and The Carnegie 
now operates 18 branch libraries in Allegh
eny County and a bookmobile service.
The most recent additions to The Car
negie have been the Science Center, which 
opened in 1991, and the Warhol Museum. 
Carnegie Tech and the Carnegie Institute 
were originally closely tied, but the links 
were gradually severed after World War II.
Those early links between CMU and The 
Carnegie will be explored with an upcoming 
exhibition on the Universitys work in ro
botics, said Bennington.
As we move into 96, were developing a 
major exhibit, in conjunction with CMU, on 
robots, Bennington said. Robots are fun, 
and we want to show off the work being done 
here in the region on robotics.
The Carnegies centennial celebration will 
continue for the next 15 months.
Crime and Incident Report
9/29 TRESPASSING, 9:58 pm. A 
CMU officer observed several people sit
ting on the third floor rotunda of Marga
ret Morrison Hall. The students believed 
that since there were chairs on the ledge, 
they could sit there. The officer explained 
that it was against University rules for 
students to be on the roof.
9/30 MISCHIEF, 12:15 am. While 
patrolling the fraternity quad, officers 
were informed that four members of a 
fraternity had broken into another fra
ternity house, smashed several trophies, 
thrown food all over the floor, and left 
shouting. The fraternity stated that re
placing the trophies would cost $921.20, 
but that they would be satisfied with a
monetary settlement.
10/1 DISORDERLY CONDUCT,
12:21 am. Officers were told by a ResLife 
community advisor that a group of stu
dents were pushing each other into the 
flower garden at Morewood Gardens. 
After arriving at the scene, the officer 
found that the students were members 
of a fraternity. The officer went to the 
house, and spoke with the house presi
dent, who told the officer that it was just 
some of their pledges ponding another 
pledge (ponding is a fraternity tradition 
left over from when the flower garden in 
front of Morewood Gardens was a pond).
10/1 VANDALISM, 1:05 am. An of
ficer on routine patrol saw a person 
cutting down the. Welcome banner in 
front of Warner Hall. He had already cut 
three of the cords, and was working on 
the fourth. The officer issued him a cita
tion, and told him to refrain from such 
activities in the future. The officer then 
took the banner back to the Campus 
Police office for safekeeping.
10/1INDECENTEXPOSURE ,12:39 
am. While patrolling the fraternity quad, 
officers observed males in Morewood 
Gardens A-Tower yelling out a window 
and mooning passers-by. The officers 
went to A-Tower to find the males. The 
males were still yelling with their door 
wide open. The officers confiscated 13
bottles of beer and two bottles of hard 
liquor. The students were later issued 
citations.
10/5 EXTREME INTOXICATION,
5:01 am. An officer was dispatched to 
Doherty Apartments for a medical call. 
On arrival, the officer found a student 
leaning in a shower, vomiting. He had 
attended a party and had several shots 
of hard liquor. The officer also found 
another male lying on his back in bed, 
slipping in and out of consciousness, and 
vomiting. At the request of CMU-EMS, 
the students were transported to Presbyterian-University Hospital.
The Tartan prints the weekly Crime
and Incident Report under the following 
guidelines:
 Campus Police Chief James LaPaglia 
reviews all reports prior to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff 
see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the 
News Editor, and the staffwriter who 
types the report.
All personal names of complainants, 
victims, and suspects and fraternity 
names are omitted from the printed re
port. Ethnic descriptions and other per
sonal details are given only in the context 
of a complete description.
Not every incident that occurs on cam
pus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
?
?
?
We think The 
a litt
I Find our career options 
e more inviting.
Austin, Texas-based Crystal Semiconductor designs mixed-signal integrated circuits, specializing in SMARTAnalog technology. 
Crystal recruiters have already met with many of Carnegie Melon's top (GPA 3.5+] EE and computer science grads-to-be. But 
even if you missed us, loo late. You can still impress ^gj\
us with your dazzling resum. Send it by (ax, e-mail or U&SBBK .SMKf StiP W UBBSSf'
snail mail (U.S. Postal Service] to the address below. Find ^ CliiUS IOQC COITipdny
out what options Crystal has lor you.your Future is clear
Crystal College Recruiting P.O. Box 17847 Austin, TX 78760 
fax (512] 445-4379 crystlhr@crystal.cirrus.com
^sl
 R 1 N C i I* I. I-:S of S O l' NI ) l K T I R K M K \ T IXV I-, S T INO
MM
'ititfk'-n' (g*
 Lsr
&(& 1 
C^^?5T st 1'**
/o a
&iJL..
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START 
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS 
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
Cant afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you cant afford not to. 
Not when you realize that your retirement 
can last 20 to 3o years or more. Youll want 
to live at least as comfortably then as you 
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take 
advantage of tax deferral and give your 
money time to compound and grow. 
Consider this: Set aside just $300 each 
month beginning at age 3o and you can 
accumulate over $172,10^* by the time 
you reach age GS. But wait ten years and 
you'll have to budget $219 each month 
to reach the same goal.
Even if youre not counting the years to 
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF 
to help you build the future you deserve  
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred 
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest
ment choices, and a record of personal 
service that spans y5 years.
Over 1.7 million people in education and 
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of 
their list for retirement planning. Why not 
join them?
Call today and learn how simple it is 
to build a secure tomorrow when you 
have time and TIAA-CREF working on 
your side.
Start planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.
*Auuming an interejl rate of 7% crtilei Io TIAA Retirrment Annuituj. Tbu rate  ujtd jolily la jbouth povtr ani tfftcl of compouniing. Lavi produce <ery different rcjul/j. CREF ccrficalu art dtributed ty TIAA-CREF Individuai an Injlilutwnal Servitej.

---------------------------------------------------

Live off campus? Sign up for AIST True Reach Savings and save 25%no matter who, how, when or where
_ you call in the U.S.
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on 
your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem - 
when you spend just $25 a month? No other plan gives you all these different ways to save?*
Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. Thats Your True Choice?
not his usual self.
You suspect the salsa.
So you call Dr. Nusbl&tt, your family vet back home.
The call is cheap.
(Too bad about the COUSUltatiOU fee.)
AT&T
Your True Choice
Refers to long distance calls billed to AT&T home or AT&T Calling Card accounts. Discounts off AT&T basic rates Certain exclusions apply Subject to billing availability. Offer available to residential AT&T customers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential line "Compared to major long distance carriers. 01995 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 19955
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
CMU, AGH developing 
Internet medical database
Carnegie Mellons expertise in video indexing, developed for the 
Informedia Digital Video Library project announced last year, has 
earned the University a key spot as a subcontractor to develop a 
national multimedia database network for doctors.
The project, known as the National Medical Practice Knowledge 
Banks, will develop networks that enable doctors to access the 
latest medical information and technology via the Internet.
CMU is working on the project with Allegheny General Hospital, 
which received a $21 millon grant from the U.S. Department of 
Commerce.
Other partners in the venture include AT&Ts Human Interface 
Technology Center, its Enterprise Solutions and Business Commu
nication Services divisions, and InSoft Inc. of Mechanicsburg. The 
trio will provide an additional $30 million in funds and services to 
support the Knowledge Bank project.
The five-year effort will involve development of a multimedia 
repository that can archive, browse, retrieve, index, and search 
data that is in still image, video and audio, as well as in text form.
The Knowledge Banks will provide centralized repositories for 
complex medical information  diagnostic indicators, details of 
preferred treatments, or surgical proceduresthat a doctor would 
normally get from an expert consultant.
Conference explores role of 
women in engineering
Carnegie Mellon will host Bridging the Gender Gap for Women in 
Engineering and Science on Saturday, a day-long conference about 
the challenges of transforming universities into supportive learning 
[ and work environments for women. The conference, which begins at 
8:45 am in Hamburg Hall, will open a dialogue among women 
engineers and scientists, students, academic decision makers and 
faculty from the tri-state area and across the nation.
It is critical that we move the conversation from how women can 
adjust to the climate to how the climate can accommodate diversity, 
said Associate Provost Barbara Lazarus. We are excited that so 
many people are taking the time out of their busy schedules to join 
us in asking the hard questions to move the agenda forward.
Featured speakers include University President Robert Mehrabian;
; Provost Paul Christiano; Susan Henry, dean of the Mellon College of 
Science; Stephen Director, dean of the College of Engineering; 
Eleanor Blum, dean of engineering at Cooper Union College; and 
John White, dean of engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technol
ogy. Denise Ecklund, principal scientist of the Intel Corporation, is 
also scheduled to speak.
Discussion topics include:
Population and Pipeline  Research indicates that in the educa
tional pipeline, from elementary through graduate school, women 
become discouraged from entering engineering and science.
0 Climate and Curriculum Disciplines have their own cultures 
that can profoundly affect the status of women attempting to enter 
those professions. Studies have shown that one of the most effective 
ways to interest women undergraduates to enter graduate school is 
a hands-on experience with research.
8Institutional Transformation  There are five phases which 
institutions pass through on their journey towards women-friendly 
engineering and science.
For more information, contact Gwendolyne Wood, x8-8934 or 
gw2k@andrew.
Andy Award winners will be 
named Thursday
The winners of the Andy Awards, the University-wide staff award 
program, will be announced at a ceremony Thursday in the Kresge 
Theater in the College of Fine Arts. The Andy Awards, named for 
Andrew Carnegie and Andrew Mellon, were established last spring 
to honor staff for their outstanding performance and dedication to 
the University.
Winners will be selected in three individual and two team catego
ries. Individual categories are Excellence in Satisfying Customers, 
Excellence in Increasing Productivity, and Excellence in Univer
sity Citizenship. Teams will be named in the customer satisfaction 
and productivity categories.
GSIA will host Indian finance 
official next week
Dr. C. Rangarajan, the governor of the Reserve Bank of India and 
the chief architect of the monetary policy of India, will give a talk on 
the development ofthe financial sector in India on Thursday, Oct. 12, 
from 5:30-6:30 p.m. in the Mellon Auditorium in Posner Hall. In a 
press release, a GSIA spokesperson called Rangarajan the unsung 
hero of Indias economic liberalization. Rangarajan overhauled the 
financial sector in the aftermath of stock market and banking scams 
in 1991, opened government bond markets, built the central banks 
open market operations, deregulated interest rates, and authored 
policies central to Indias economic reforms.
Rangarajan previously served as a member of the Prime Ministers 
Economic Advisory Council. Global Finance recently rated his per
formance fifth among the heads of the top 30 central banks in the 
world. The program is open to the public. For more information, 
contact Lorrie Orndoff at 268-7957.
American Airlines CEO gets 
GSIA leadership award
Robert L. Crandall, chairman and chief executive officer of AMR 
Corporation and American Airlines, Inc., received GSIAs business 
leadership award last Wednesday.
Crandall helped develop many of Americans business innova
tions. These include the Super Saver fare, Americans SABRE 
automation system, the AAdvantage program for frequent travelers, 
the creation of a series of major hubs at Dallas/Fort Worth, Chicago, 
Miami, and San Juan, creation of a wide-ranging international route 
system and the development of broadly participative employee 
relations policies.
Robert Crandall richly deserves this award for the worthwhile, 
timely and lasting changes hes brought about in the airline indus
try, said Gerald Meyers, the Ford Distinguished Professor at GSIA 
and former chairman of American Motors Corporation. He has re
invigorated a leading company in a difficult industry.
CMU developing 
debit card system
CHOICE, from page 1
direct link back to our central 
processing unit, in essence, mak
ing your ID a debit card. This 
would allow the merchant to 
swipe your card and at the end of 
the day everything would be ac
counted for electronically, and 
right now, Im not sure we have 
the compacity to do that.
Sallade-Farina said that Pitts 
program includes profit-sharing 
between the university and the 
merchants, although she refused 
to release the exact details. She 
said that Pitt has already recov
ered the cost of the extra equip
ment.
Most merchants contacted 
seemed pleased with the program. 
We have a very good working 
relationship with Pitt, said one 
unidentified worker from 
Dominos.
However, the most outspoken 
by far was the owner of The Fish
ery Wharf on Forbes Avenue in 
Oakland, who declined to give his 
name.
This is a very good program. 
Im surprised that [CMU1 doesnt 
have something like that. I think 
that whomever is in charge should 
seriously think about it. Students 
flood into Oakland from CMU to 
eat, he said. After joining the
Choice Dollars program, I noticed 
a definite increase in business. 
He said that even parents like 
it: their children dont have to 
carry any money, and the pro
gram doesnt include restaurants 
that serve alcoholic beverages.
I truly am surprised that 
[CMU], Duquesne, Carlow and 
other campuses-around here dont 
have this system. Ive only been 
with the program for two months, 
and it has definitely helped busi
ness, he said.
Being a former CMU student 
myself, I know both systems 
pretty well, said Matt Zofchak, a 
sophomore engineering major at 
Pitt. I think that the Choice Dol
lars program is clearly the better 
ofthe two.
CMUs Allison said that the 
University is developing a valueloaded card system.
We arent anywhere close to it 
yet, but in the end we hope to 
have a card for each student to 
use, Allison said.
We would like to get this imple
mented as soon as possible, but 
we need to look into the hard
ware and software necessary to 
make the system run, she said. 
We also need to get student in
put as to what kind of card sys
tem they would like to have.
Corrections/Clarifications...
Several errors crept into last weeks Sports section.
The two women in the page 9 feature photo were incorrectly 
identified. They are junior Sarah Pacocha (#12) setting to 
freshman Jennifer Sutherland (#14).
In the"Tartans get first UAA win; lose another in OT, page 9, 
the goalscorers listed were incorrect. Sophomore Kim Umeda 
actually scored the first goal and senior Nicole Poisson had the 
next two.
In Mens soccer loses twice to tough UAA opponents, page 9, 
the scoring information was inaccurate. CMU actually scored 
first, followed by Rochester.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such 
an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 
268-2111.
Elevator comes clean
ELEVATOR, from page 1
Its not a big deal, but it is tradition, said Arden Bendler, a junior 
artmajor. Its the one spot where people can do whatever they want, 
so they should be able to do it. The campus is so non-expressive, since 
the fence is often monopolized by fraternities  [the elevator] should 
be left for a creative outlet.
GET A LIFE GET HERBALIFE
Make MoneyLose Weight 
International Company 15 Years in Business
CALL NOW 
412-882-1404
FARES
NEW YORK
PHILADELPHIA
MIAMI
LOS ANGELES
$80 BOSTON 
39 ORLANDO 
99 SEATTLE 
178 HONOLULU
$89
79
178
347
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way based on a round 
trip purchase. International Student ID may be reauired. Taxes & 
surcharges are NOT included. Fares may change without notice.
Call fura ^gg jj\U&SBKU.&MfKmacazisc!
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cLs/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
683-1881
. Reffrs t oslngrnGENERAL DENTISTRY
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available. Photo by Jonas  1995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D.
You Can Count on
U.S medi
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management j
Master-Academy of General Dentistry /
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics /
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 
(800) 732-7645
HctalS.HoHck.BXI).
T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy
 I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia
 Cosmetic Dentistry
 Pediatric Dentistry
 Oral Surgery
ACCREDITED p FAIN PROGRAM
4&EW0FP
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
I

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University9 October 1995
U-zone deal to assist 
off-campus students
The planned arrangement be
tween Carnegie Mellon and the 
Port Authority of Allegheny 
County that would allow CMU 
students to ride PAT buses sim
ply by presenting their IDs 
[PAT: U-zone success incred
ible, 10/2/95] should be imple
mented.
Such a setup would allow CMU 
students greater mobility within 
the area immediately around 
campus, and consequently, 
greater flexibility in decisions 
concerning off-campus housing 
and social activities. Students 
living off-campus are somewhat 
constrained by the limited scope 
of the existing CMU shuttle ser
vice.
Th arrangement would give 
CMU students a one-zone ride 
on routes passing through the 
Shadyside/Squirrel Hill/Oakland 
area. The most obvious benefit of 
this would be that students would 
have access to transportation in 
the east-west direction. Cur
rently, the CMU shuttle service 
functions in a primarily northsouth orientation.
Continuing negotiations, which 
have been going on since last 
year, are indicative of CMUs 
commitment to providing an im
proved service to the students. 
Campus Police, responsible for 
overseeingthe CMU shuttle, has 
been aware of the fundamental 
inadequacies with the service 
they are able to provide for some 
time now.
In the past, CMU has attempted to improve the service 
in several different ways. These 
previous attempts, such as an 
expanded CMU shuttle, a dedi
cated Squirrel Hill shuttle, and a 
merger with the University of 
Pittsburghs shuttle service, have 
all fallen through due either to 
cost or technicalities. Indeed one 
arrangement presented to CMU 
by the Port Authority in June 
was rejected outright due to the 
high cost. The issue of cost has 
been, so far, a major impediment 
to the discussions.
While the Port Authority 
doesnt want to give CMU a bet
ter deal than the general public, 
the University is aiming to pay 
less than the standard $1.25 for 
a one-zone ride. With the con
stant construction on campus, 
the University certainly does not 
have the cash-flow to subsidize 
bus rides for free like the Penn
sylvania Lottery does for 
Pittsburghs senior citizens.
Nevertheless, both sides are 
pressing on in the hopes of reach
ing a mutually satisfactory ar
rangement and CMUs persis
tence in the matter is laudable. 
The next discussion session is 
planned for October 9 and the 
indications are that if both sides 
can agree to an arrangement 
during this session, CMU stu
dents may well be able to cruise 
down on PAT buses by the middle 
of November. And with the evil 
Pittsburgh cold and rainy season 
fast approaching, the PAT deal 
couldnt come at a better time.
Delays defeat Escort 
services purpose
Its 3:45 am. A tired student 
finally finishes her project for 
the class she has in about four 
hours. As she leaves the empty 
computer cluster, she decides its 
too late and too dark to walk 
home alone, so she calls Escort.
She waits outside the cluster 
for more than an hour for the 
van, beginning to regret having 
called in the first place.
When the van finally arrives, 
she is forced to endure the scenic 
routehome, finally getting to bed 
about an hour and half after she 
finished her work.
While our escort drivers pro
vide a valuable service to our 
community  a free ride from 
campus to the surrounding ar
eas of Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside, the time wasted wait
ing for one of these drivers in the 
middle of the night renders it an 
impractical option for students 
who are anxious to get home.
While it can be argued that the 
main purpose of Escort is to pro
vide quick yet safe transporta
tion, many overworked college 
students will not choose their 
personal well-being over the time 
they can save walking home 
alone. Since the only reason Es
cort exists is to serve a need of 
the students, supporting an inef
ficient agency seems impractical 
for everyone.
While the middle of the night 
isnt a safe time to be walking the 
streets of Pittsburgh, it also isnt
A NEW (RT SERVICE WAS BEEVl 
VE)/EU>?EP FOR STUDENTS WH ^ PM6ER WIU T CALL AFE-WALK
o O Rq (SAWIN iTMOH,
Letters to the Editor
Student recalls 
professor's spirit
i GB3
Letter to the Editor
a time that students wish to 
waste waiting for a ride. Rather 
than having all drivers drive like 
speed demons or something 
equally ridiculous, we suggest 
that Escort expand the service, 
including increased funding and 
more drivers. Perhaps that way 
students wouldnt have to expe
rience a trip around the city in 
order to get home, or wait for 
long lengths of time in unat
tended buildings, which defeats 
the purpose of the program in 
the first place.
Unfortunately, CMU students 
tend to ignore personal safety as 
school life gets hectic. Time is 
always the more important fac
tor; if Escort and the shuttle ser
vice coordinated themselves bet
ter, students will always have a 
viable alternative to walking 
home alone late at night.
Students should also remem
ber to take advantage of 
SafeWalka volunteer student 
service that provides students 
with two walking escortswhen 
going inbetween campus sites 
after dark.
We applaud Escort and 
SafeWalk for the services they 
provide but see a need for more 
efficient and timely response. 
As crime in the area seems to be 
on the rise, promoting the use of 
services like Escort and 
SafeWalk will decrease the ef
fort it takes for students to look 
out for themselves.
Editor:
This week, CMU 
witnessed the extinc
tion of an endangered 
species. Never in my 
life have I met a per
son more human than 
professor Richard Schoenwald. Never 
was there a person more dedicated to 
teaching what it means to be human. In 
a world so blind to the art of being hu
man, professor Schoenwald forced us to 
remember that there is an intelligence 
in all of usan intelligence that makes 
us different from mere animals.
Here at Carnegie Mellon, where tech
nology controls our lives, Richard 
Schoenwald knew and understood cul
ture. He grasped the effects the technol
ogy had on students here. He demon
strated other-worldly knowledge of what 
it meant to be 20 years old at CMU. 
However, instead of feeling as though we 
could never attain his level of intellect, 
we always felt that we, too, could com
prehend the complexities of our world. 
He never lied to us. He never told us that 
our world was an easy one to grow up in, 
but he gave each of us a personal mission 
to survive this world and make it better. 
His love of humanity and his belief in 
each of us became a drumbeat that all of 
us could march to.
The saddest thing about Schoenwalds 
death is not the loss to the people that 
met him and learned from him. The 
hundreds of students that never brushed 
against his life, teaching, and greatness 
lose more than a mere letter could enu
merate. I feel such hopelessness when I 
think of all those hundreds missed. Per
haps Im stepping over boundaries 
making too much of my own understand
ing and knowledge. Still, I want to some
how impart something of professor 
Schoenwald to those that will never be 
able to hear from him.
He made one thing very clear: there is 
nothing more pathetic, more saddening 
than a person who says, I dont know 
anything about this, but I know what I 
like, about any form of art.
Think very hard about yourself. You 
will like certain works of art because of 
who you are, but the more you know 
about the art, the more you will under
stand and appreciate in the art. You 
might find Mozart boring, but know his 
life, and youll find more angst, pain, and
confusion than any gothic, heavy metal, 
or punk band. Modem dance might look 
absurd to you, but there is more love, 
sexuality, and physicality than any 
movie, porn mag, or romance novel. High 
fashion might seem over-priced and sillylooking, but MTV decides and dictates 
what youll wear next from the designs 
put on the runway. And the list goes on 
to architecture, design, painting, and 
sculpture.
Everyone is capable of understanding 
humanity and specifically our culture. 
Things are changing quickly. If you re
ally want to know what to expect from 
the world, start learning about yourself 
now. Never catch yourself saying, I dont 
know about.... If you dont know, learn. 
Readmore andreadmore carefully. Dont 
let yourself be spoon-fed information. 
Ask why. Dont ever think that you will 
never be able to learn something. With 
professor Schoenwalds passing, 
Carnegie Mellon has lost its greatest 
gift to its students. Someone said that 
there will never be another Schoenwald. 
If professor Schoenwald were here, he 
would have said otherwise. Each one of 
us, especially at this University, has the 
intelligence and the potential to be an
other Schoenwald. I will consider my 
life a success if I learn all that I can 
possibly retain. My life will be a success 
if, like professor Schoenwald, I become 
superhuman by first becoming human.
Kerry L. Hagan 
Senior
Music and ECE
Planning faux 
pas explained
=- (SB
UtMri to tht EdllofEditor:
In response to the 
editorial of Septem
ber 25th, 1995, reLetter tO 
gardingtheschedul(he Editor 
ing of Homecoming 
on Mid-Semester Weekend, I feel fur
ther explanation is in order.
The author of the aforementioned 
editorial is correct in saying that this a 
less-than-ideal situation. However, it 
was unavoidable.
Unfortunately, the Homecoming 
weekend selection process is not as 
simple as the Alumni Relations Office 
selecting the perfect weekend.
First, the Athletic Department must
arrange a football schedule with the 
University Athletic Association (UAA). 
This schedule is finalized, and the home 
football game dates are presents to the 
Alumni Relations Office.
They then decide which of those week
ends works best. They prefer to have it 
fall on a weekend sometime in October,
This allows enough time to organize 
the events, while not putting it too close 
to the end of the semester and Thanks
giving.
This year, the Tartans are playing 
only three home games, and the only 
game that fit the preceding criteria was 
the game on October 14, which is MidSemester Weekend.
Great lengths were taken to remedy 
this, but to no avail.
The Athletic Department requested 
that the football schedule be changed, 
and the Alumni Relations Office made a 
proposal to the Registrars Office to 
change the date of Mid-Semester Week
end. However, neither of these was < 
viable option.
Under the circumstances, we had no 
choice but to make the best of it.
Both the Alumni Relations Office and 
the Student Homecoming Committee are 
planningmajor events to entertain those 
students who will remain on campus, 
perhaps encouraging other students to 
stay.
These activities include a bonfire, free 
film, the Highlander Games, and fes
tivities throughout the football game. 
Saturday evening there will be a Home
coming Gala complete with a big band, 
casino games, and performances by 
ScotchnSoda. There will also be a large 
focus on the 50th Anniversary ofthe end 
of World War II.
In regard to the Clippership dance 
sponsored by the Student Dormitory 
Council, they are sensitive to the fact 
that Homecoming is the same as MidSemester Weekend, and have been plan
ning to hold the dance another weekend 
since last April. I have heard uncon
firmed reports that it will be held the 
last weekend in October.
I think youll also be happy to hear 
that Homecoming dates have already 
been set for both 1996 and 1997 that 
purposely miss Mid-Semester Weekend.
I hope this answers some questions 
about the situation at hand.
Tom Gilbert
Junior
MSE
Behind World Product Leader
ship... reads the recruitment ad for 
Proctor & Gamble. However, this half
page of a recent Tartan does not show 
the corporate hypocrisy behind the slick 
and glossy products their company 
foists upon the market.
I had a fair amount of interaction 
with P&G when living in Cincinnati, 
their world headquarters. The Animal 
Rights Community there headed a na
tional campaign to have P&G follow 
the lead of Dial, Amway, Avon, and 
hundreds of other companies in not 
testing their products on animals.
While our arguments and actions 
received a great deal of media cover
age, including national wire reports 
and USA Today, P&G had a strangle
hold over the local press. A wire editor 
of a Cincinnati paper told me that AP 
teasers of P&G protests were often not 
followed by stories or photos.
Last spring, Procter & Gambles 
high-profile environmental lackey 
came to speak at a Chatham confer
ence honoring the memory of noted 
environmentalist, Rachel Carson, and 
focused on women in the environment.
She wrote a long editorial for the PostGazette (which didnt run any rebuttal 
letters) promoting her appearance.
However, after seeing animal rights 
and environmental protesters, she took 
only one question after her talk, and 
didnt show up to her promised appear
ance for a panel discussion. Although 
this event was being billed as a confer
ence to celebrate the Rachel Carson 
[author of Silent Spring] legacy, 
Carsons own words tell a different story: 
Unless we have the courage to recog
nize cruelty for what it is whether its 
victim is human or animal we can not 
expect things to be much better in this 
world.
From 1985 to 1994, hundreds of thou
sands of animals died in the testing of 
P&Gs products. Burning chemicals are 
forced into the eyes of rabbits (Draize 
eye irritancy test) and toxic chemicals 
were placed on the shaved and raw skin 
of rabbits and guinea pigs (dermal skin 
abrasion test). Furthermore, when the 
California legislature considered a bill 
to ban the Draize test, P&G lobbied to 
defeat it.
As documented by theWaW Street 
Journal reporter Alecia Swasy in her 
book, Soap Opera, P&Gs environmen
tal record is hardly in keeping with the 
legacy of Rachel Carson. The Womens 
Environmental Network, The Environ
mental Action Foundation, Californians
Against Waste, and others have criti
cized P&Gs destruction and mistreat
ment of the environment (such as turn
ing the Fenholloway River in Florida 
into an industrial waterway), the mis
leading and exaggerated environmen
tal claims made in their brochures and 
advertising, as well as the companys 
efforts to lobby against environmental 
legislation.
P&G lobbied in at least five states 
against legislation which aimed to dis
courage the use of disposable diapers. 
Their advertising of environmental 
friendliness has been challenged as 
deceptive by New York Citys consumer 
affairs department, as well as investi
gated by the attorneys generals of 10 
states. P&G also led the effort to have 
the EPA to withdraw a consumer hand
book which included tips for reducing 
household waste such as recipes for 
mixing cleaning-product substitutes.
PR efforts by companies like P&G to 
greenwash themselves will not pro
mote a healthy environment.
Only a commitment to putting our 
planet over profits offers the hope of a 
sound planet for ourselves and our 
descendants.
Ball is a Ph.D. student in Environ
mental Engineering. No animals were 
harmed during the writing of this col---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 19957
Importance of education ignored due to greed
James Stepanek
What is the most serious problem facing 
the nation today? This is a question often 
asked by media pundits, politicians, and 
other such people who want to make a 
buck. The answers range widely. Theres 
the deficit (and debt  cant forget that), 
crime, the religious right, the loony left, 
drugs, inequality, the environment, pov
erty, and a multitude of other subjects 
which someone can adopt as his cause 
celebre. Whats my pick? Education. Our 
educational system is going down the 
tubes, and fast.
Now you may ask, How can you say 
that after lauding how tough CMU is? 
Well there are a couple of things there. 
One point is that you folks are the creme 
de la creme of students (OK, maybe not the 
really heavy cream; they go to MIT, 
Harvard, etc., but certainly not half and 
half). You are going to one of the best 
schools out there, and to get here rather 
demanding standards had to be met. The 
system of college education in this country 
is actually rather good. The problem lies 
down in the lower grades.
Weve been spending more and more on 
education only to get less and less. The 
teachers union keeps telling us that if we
spend a little more all will be better, while 
all the time squashing any initiative to
ward meaningful standards, teacher quali
fication testing, and even merit pay for 
teachers. How anyone could assume that 
these people consider education a priority 
at all eludes me. If you go to some areas 
around Pittsburgh, the average pay for 
teachers is $50K a year. Remember that 
they only work nine months out of a year 
at that. These are the same people who go 
on strike if they dont have a contract that 
provides wage increases at well above the 
level of inflation.
It is almost humorous, the way in which 
teachers can get away with getting a raise 
automatically even when, by any objec
tive measure, their performance is nose 
diving. Another bit of this argument is 
how teachers unions strenuously object 
to merit pay. How could any organization 
which claims to promote the best in edu
cation oppose that which encourages the 
best teachers? Lamar Alexander, one of 
the Republican contenders for president, 
had his hardest battle as Governor of 
Tennessee getting merit pay passed 
against the wishes of the NEA (National 
Education Association) and affiliated 
teachersunions.
At present an important fight over the 
future of education is happening right in 
Pittsburgh. Theres a neighborhood here 
in town which is a bit on the run down 
side. Its called Wilkinsburg. They have a 
public high school called the Turner
School, which in spite of spending 
per student per annum, is one of the worst 
schools in town. In the past few years the 
best GPA from a valedictorian has been 
3.2. Thats pathetic. Mind you this spend
ing is well above the national average of 
$6000 a year.
Recently the parents in Wilkinsburg 
finally got fed up. They elected a school 
board that wasnt just a bunch of NEA 
toadies, but looked for a real solution. 
They encouraged input from all quarters 
including the teachers union, which didnt 
feel it worth their effort to respond. What 
was the result? They decided to privatize 
the school.
This doesnt mean that it would become 
a private school and tuition would have to 
be paid by the parents, it means that a 
private company would take over man
agement. They hired a company called 
Alternative Public Schools, which has done 
this before in other states. The company 
came in, and suggested a radical revamp
ing of the educational plan, with a new 
curriculum and a longer school year. They 
planned to fire a whole bunch of the union 
teachers who had always been used to the 
idea that their jobs were inviolable.
What happened? Did the unions try to 
educate the populace to see the error of 
their ways? Did they try to offer a better 
solution to the problem? Did they try to 
improve standards in the meantime to 
make the radical changes unnecessary? 
Of course not. They took the district to
court. Were still watching this court battle. 
It has flip-flopped back and forth as it has 
climbed the appeals ladder over the last 
year or so.
At present its on the docket to be re
viewed by the state Supreme Court. In the 
meantime, however, the plans are pro
ceeding apace. This was allowed by an 
appeals court judge. The company has 
already hired teachers, set up the new 
schedule, and solicited parental input 
(something the unions never believed in). 
It seems like everyone in the area is en
thused about the new direction the schools 
taking, except the union, of course. Oh 
yeah, I forgot to mention that the company 
was going to offer this improved educa
tional plan at well under what had been 
spent. They are going to charge something 
like $5000 per pupil.
This case, which will be in front of the 
court any day now, will be a landmark in 
the future of American education. It will 
answer whether or not we can truly find a 
way to fix the system, or if were trapped 
under the thumbs of the teachers unions 
with their continued demands for more 
money with no improvement in sight. If 
this goes through, it could be a damburst 
of major proportions. The choke-hold on 
the educational system held by the NEA 
would be broken. Real reform would be a 
possibility.
Well just have to see if the justices have 
the courage to let the educational system 
be fixed.
Poor environmental protection prevents progress
rJon Orris
No person shall... be deprived 
of life, liberty, or property, with
out due process of law; nor shall 
private property be taken for pub
lic use, without just compensa
tion.  the Fifth Amendment of 
, the Constitution.
The right of private property is 
one of the most fundamental hu
man rights, a derivative of and a 
necessary condition for the right 
to life. Environmental policy over 
the past several decades has been 
steadily eroding property rights. 
Two of the most intrusive areas 
are in wetlands protection and in 
the protection of endangered spe
cies. The first question that 
should be asked about endan
gered species is whether large 
scale extinctions are occurring. 
The answer is that there is no 
scientific evidence whatsoever for 
this claim.
I used the example of the spot
ted owl in my last column. I was 
a bit inaccurate. In the case in 
question, it is the Northern Spot
ted Owl that is supposedly en
dangered. Spotted owls, as a 
whole, are quite populous in the 
northwest. Of course, there is no 
evidence that the Northern Owl 
is a separate species.
This is one example of many 
subspecies and populations be
ing considered distinct species by 
the government and being put on 
the list of endangered species. 
The small fact that spotted owls 
are not on the verge of extinction 
5 not stopped federal agencies 
from spending millions of dollars
on their protection. This doesnt 
even count the hundreds of mil
lions in lost revenues for the tim
ber companies and tax revenues 
for the timber states such as 
Washington.
In California there is an insect 
known as the Delhi Sands FlowerLoving Fly, which is considered 
to be endangered. Youd face the 
same legal penalties for swatting 
this fly as for shooting an endan
gered Condor. In San Bernardino, 
the presence of this fly has added 
over $3 million to the construc
tion cost of a medical center, as 
well as a delay of one year. Many 
other development projects 
in the area are being simi
larly affected. Consider how 
many patients could have 
been treated for $3 million.
Landowners in Southern 
California last summer 
wanted to build fire breaks 
around their homes to pro
tect them in case of brush 
fires. They were dissuaded 
from doing so by the Fish 
and Wildlife Service because 
doing so might disturb the 
burrows of the endangered 
Stephens Kangaroo Rat.
Last October, fires swept 
Southern California, and 
many hom es that could have 
possibly been saved burned down.
A Texas man who had invested 
millions of dollars in property 
owned by his family for decades 
was forbidden to continue devel
opment by the Fish and Wildlife 
Service. The reason given was 
that his property was identified 
as a suitable habitat for the 
golden-cheeked warbler. In this 
case, the endangered animal 
wasnt even present. As a result 
of this, the bank foreclosed on 
hundreds of acres. Of course, now
the bank is stuck with hundreds 
of acres of worthless property.
I have no problem with conser
vation, or protecting endangered 
species. I do have a big problem 
with taking peoples property 
without compensation. If the gov
ernment or environmental groups 
want to protect an endangered 
species, they should pay land
owners to preserve or set up habi
tats on their lands instead of forc
ing them to do so against their 
will at great personal cost. Aside 
from protecting property rights, 
this would force some rational 
consideration of the actual value
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
of protecting endangered species.
This would contrast sharply 
with the current command and 
control policies ofthe government.
No consideration is given to the 
economic or social costs of pro
tecting endangered species.
Apparently, the only species the 
government isnt interested in 
protecting is man.
If the efforts of the government 
to protect endangered species are
ized as insane.
President Bush, in one of many 
acts of stupidity involving the 
environment, declared a policy of 
no net loss.
This means that whenever a 
landowner or the government fills 
in a wetland, an equal amount of 
property must be converted into 
a wetland. In Georgia, this re
sulted in an entire forest being 
clear-cut to replace marsh that 
was filled in during a road con
struction project.
Currently, the U.S. Army Corps 
of Engineers is directly in charge 
of wetlands regulation. Person
ally, I consider it very dis
turbing that part ofthe U.S. 
military is in charge of regu
lating the lives of citizens 
they are supposed to pro
tect.
Farmers have been ha
rassed by the Corps for de
stroying wetlands by drain
ing potholes, repairing or 
filling in drainage ditches, 
or otherwise making use of 
their property.
In Florida, a retired man 
and his son served prison 
time and were forced to pay 
thousands in fines for filling 
in a drainage ditch on prop
erty where the family 
planned to build a home. All 
across America, construction 
projects are being delayed or 
halted.
Aside from the issue property 
rights violations, there is another 
issue: that of public health.
Wetlands are breeding sites for 
mosquitoes.
Mosquitoes carry malaria and 
encephalitis, two deadly diseases.
The determination of the govsilly, their efforts on behalf of emment to preserve every patch 
wetlands can only be character-' of damp ground combined with
the increasing restrictions on the 
use of pesticides is a disaster 
waiting to happen.
The question that never seems 
to be considered in protecting 
endangered species and wetlands 
is: Of what value are these to 
man?
Environmental protection is not 
free. Rational considerations of 
cost versus value must be taken 
into account when preserving 
nature. Man is a part of nature, 
and his needs also need to be 
taken into account. Man lives by 
changing the environment to suit 
his needs.
This should not be construed to 
mean that I favor paving 
Yellowstone. Such resources are 
a value to man, and should be 
preserved.
However, the current trend of 
attempting to keep every bit of 
nature pristine regardless of cost 
is destroying this country. In ad
dition to gross ^property rights 
violations, hundreds of billions of 
dollars are siphoned out of the 
economy every year to dubious 
benefit. This trend must be re
versed, and reason must be ap
plied to environmental problems.
I have been called arrogant for 
my presumption in thinking that 
man has the right to determine 
the fate of the environment.
Yet many of these same people 
who would consider me to be ar
rogant have no qualms about as
suming the right to regulate the 
lives of their fellow human be
ings, to seize their property with
out cause or compensation, and 
to use the money taken by force 
from their unwilling victims to 
fund their whims.
Arrogant is far too mild and 
clean a word for describing such 
people.
With the fall of Commu
nism, there has been a greater 
rift between the people of this 
campus. Therefore, we clev
erly asked: What do you 
think of discord and lack 
of unity among the col
leges?
Tara Zane
Professional Writing 
Senior
There needs to be more 
respect between colleges 
because we all excel in our 
respective fields.
Stephannie Behmes 
CivE.
Sophomore
Cant we all just get along?
Tom Gilbert
MSE
Junior
I think its a shame because 
the colleges have a lot to offer 
each other and because of 
isolation we miss out on a lot.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Darkroom Manager
Matt Ramme 
CS
Junior
Its not my fault.
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Business Manager........Amlt Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
..........................Matthew Solitro;
Features Ed.......Shannon Glbney
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Acting Calendar Ed......Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.BrockettHorne.
...........................Jennifer Zieserl 1
Dossier Lit. Ed. .. Adrlane Seibert .
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
..........................Gabrlen Symons
Photo Ed.....Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager..........I-Plng Li
Copy Manager.........Eric Strauss .
Asst. News Ed......Sameer Karim
Asst. Diversions Ed.....Ena Kahn
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Senior Staff 
Jason Andracki, Matt Ball, 
Chlntan Shah
Staffwriters 
Gil Aiterovitz, Yosef Birnboim, Chris 
Cannon, Darren Chiappetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricia Davis, Neil 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan, 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom. 
Harper, Jason Heinleln, David Ko
ran, Wladimir Labelkovsky, April 
C. Moate, Angela Molloy, Suzanne 
Paddok, Sudhlr Reddy, Rick 
Simmons, James Stepanek, Paul 
Tabachneck, Bill Vandermark, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson,, 
Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan ' 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hlromi 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Josh Freeman, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Scott Hess
Production 
Shiv Dewan, Lisa Don, Heather 
Keith, Jennifer LI, Lester Manzano, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Victor Ortega, 
Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelli, Mimi, 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win
ter Mason, Catherine Senderiing,1 
M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth Zambelli '
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DiGiuseppi
Junior Staff 
Kaori Aoyanna, Diana Bartolotta, 
Steve Charnoubi, WanchingCheng, 
Lome Colon, Jarosiav Delapedraja, 
Anne Marie Devine, Neil Donnelly, 
Elias Fallon, Alexandra
Grundeman, Michael Howard, 
Helen Huang, Alex Lewin, Sandy 
Lii, Dizzy Murphy, KennethNamchung, Kyle Oppenheim, Rick 
Rikoski, Dan Rosenberg, Carla 
Sereny, JessicaStrelitz,MinhTran, 
Andrew Wang, Jillian Watkins, 
Aaron Welsberg, Bradley
Zimmerman
The Tartan Is the student newspaper of Camegle Mellon 
University. It Is a weekly newspaper published by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem
bers of the University community. It Is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for 
the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and polity 
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The 
Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any columrj 
or political cartoon. Letters to tho Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of 
the University community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 500 words. Tho Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright  1995 by Tho 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reseives the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegle MeilorH 
University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reseived.
Library of Congress ISSN 0:0890-3107._______________

---------------------------------------------------

art ntwtilor ipu btstxhkctpf
Theirs.
dilgfar
Rachel Keeler* 
Blythe Osner
BACHELOR OF HUMANITIES AND ARTS 
SPRING 1995 DEAN'S LIST
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences and the 
College of Fine Arts congratulate our students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring semester.
Deftwrm The, Pizza.>
cfbefAfasr
Justin Carroll1' 
Diane Hairston* 
Hester Kamin 
Jessica Kender* 
Lisa Ann Kicielinski 
Lisa Marinacci* 
Robyn Nace* 
Tania Scheer
FRESHMEN
Carl Foner* 
Jenny. Kwon*
* Indicates High Honors
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring.
Experienced pizza makers needed.
682-7272
PAPA
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
One 16" Exfra 
Large One Topping
T-----------------------------T
Two 14" Large I 10"0ne Topping
One Topping& 2 Cokes
$7 $ir $ 5
One 14" Large One Topping & An Order of Breadsticks
Additional toppings $1.00 each Not valid with any other coupon Valid only at participating stores
.1
Additional toppings $1.00 each I (Mon.  Thurs. 1 lam-4pm, 9pm-close) Not valid with any other coupon . Additional toppings $.70 each Valid only at participating stores I Not valid with any other coupon Valid only at participating stores |
Additional toppings $1.00 each Not valid with any other coupon Valid only at participating stores
J
ORACLE
Enabling the Information Age
Considering Oracles track record, why work for the other guys? Were known for our technological breakthroughs including the first SQL 
relational database, the first portable DBMS, the first database to run on a massively parallel computer, the first cooperative-server databasejust to 
name a few. Join the world's number one supplier of software for information management.. .And get used to leading the pack.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer  Technical Analyst  Consultant  Product Manager 
Learn more about Oracle at our INFORMATION SESSION on October 24 Refreshments provided.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 I PHONE: 415-506-6991 
For additional information, visit our web site at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume Vol umme9 6SPORTS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaV 0,Is69C aVVr
Tartan Rie Photo
artans withstand late 
urge to defeat Grove City
Jy DARREN CHIAPPETTA
fartan Staffwriter
jlf Saturdays game against Grove City
College had been a movie, they might 
iave called it The Great Escape. Or 
ierhaps, Band of the Hand.
The Tartans opened up a 23-point lead, 
hen had to be saved by the right hand of 
enior cornerback Rob Locke as Grove 
jity mounted a furious second half comejack that fell just short, 30-25.
CMU scored on four straight first-half 
lossessions and appeared to have the 
fame well in hand until the Wolverines 
cored twice in 2:22 in the fourth quarer to make things interesting. Then coaptain Locke made the big play.
On fourth down and seven with less
than a minute to go in the game, Wolves 
quarterback T. J. Rockwell looked in
side the CMU 10 for split end Tom 
Flenner, who had run a 12-yard sideline 
out pattern. But Locke, playing on a sore 
leg and a slippery field, cut in front of 
Flenner and knocked the ball away, pre
serving the Tartan victory.
You expect your captains to step up, 
said Head Coach Rich Lackner. It was 
a great football play by a great kid, and 
it saved the game.
We knew it was coming to [Flenner], 
Locke said. I just happened to make a 
good break on the ball. Flenner was 
Grove Citys leading receiver, catching 
seven passes for 73 yards.
Early on, it didnt look as if Carnegie 
Mellon would have to worry about any
Locke heroics. Sophomore split end Ricco 
Parrish made an incredible leaping catch 
for a 39-yard touchdown pass from se
nior quarterback Dave Soltysik late in 
the first quarter to give the Tartans a 
14-0 lead, just 31 seconds after sopho
more halfback Chris Neupaver scored 
on a four-yard scamper. The Parrish six 
was set up by the CMU defense, which 
recovered a Jason Hollenbaugh fumble 
on the previous play.
Grove City bounced back on their next 
drive, with halfback Jon Scott taking it 
in from four yards away to cut the Tar
tan lead to 14-7 five minutes into the 
second quarter.
Carnegie Mellon dominated the re
mainder of the first half, and when 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 12
Womens soccer 
dominates W&J
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Senior defender Bridget Caster works 
the ball upfield from the Tartans' end.
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The womens soccer team dominated 
Washington & Jefferson College this 
past Wednesday, away, but returned 
home to a disappointing forfeit this 
Saturday against Gettysburg.
At the end of Saturdays home 
matchup, the scoreboard read a 2-1 
Gettysburg victory. This was of little 
importance, however, as Gettysburg 
won the moment that they stepped on 
the field because the game was techni
cally forfeited by CMU. The game was 
scheduled late, and therefore appeared
on none of the official schedule's. Be
cause CMU was the home team, they 
were responsible for supplying the of
ficials. When none showed due to the 
mix-up, the Tartans forfeited the 
match with an official 1-0 Gettysburg 
victory. Both teams then played each 
other unofficially.
Seniormidfielder Maria Casella, one 
of the teams two captains, said, We 
knew that we had already lost, so our 
intensity was terrible. Casella also 
said that the game was frustrating 
because they were able to play on 
Gettysburgs level and beat them. 
Gettysburg is a highly-ranked team 
which has participated in a national 
tournament.
The Tartans score came in the sec
ond half as senior forward Nicole Poisson saved the ball from going out of 
bounds after the Gettysburg goalie 
deflected it. Poisson turned the ball 
and passedit to seniormidfielder Erika 
Banuelos in front of the net, who eas
ily put the ball past the keeper.
Last Wednesday, the Tartans trav
eled to W&J to defeat the Presidents 
31. Sophomore forward Kim Umeda 
scored the first goal, followed by a high 
header by Poisson that shot past the 
goalie off of a nicely placed corner kick 
from junior back Mae Hogan. Later, 
Umeda again scored for the Tartans 
as she put the ball into the net off a 
Please see SOCCER, page 12
lockey club opens season with exhibition win over Stars
By JESSICA STRELITZ
tartan Junior Staffwriter
[The Carnegie Mellon Hockey 
lub opened up their hockey seainby beatingthe Steel City Stars 
Enior team, 5-3, Saturday night 
it Neville Arena on Pittsburghs 
louth Side.
Although the game was an exSbition, the Tartans displayed 
lie skills that have carried them
o the league playoffs for four 
msecutive years.
The Stars scored early on jun|r starting goalie Jon Kliegman. 
owever, he rallied with 15 saves
for the rest of the period and a 
half that he was in net.
The defense was struggling 
early, obviously affected by the 
absence of starting sophomore 
defenseman Brian Campo, who 
is out with a back injury, and 
sophomore defenseman Paul 
Voulgaris, who was out with the 
flu.' Post-grad student Blair 
Echols and junior defenseman 
Chris Adukaitis played long shifts 
to make up for the hole.
The Tartans countered in the 
.first period with goals by junior 
left winger Jim Buck and fresh
man Andy Oxnard.
It was a great pass [from se
nior center Roger Maddalena], 
and a great way to start the sea
son, said Buck about his goal. 
Buck ended up with a goal and an 
assist that night.
Oxnard was cited by the three 
captains as having played an ex
cellent game offensively.
Another rookie, freshman Dino 
Sanchez, scored in the second 
period just minutes after having 
an assist on Adukaitiss goal that 
had started off the second period.
Adukaitis said, It was good to 
see the rookies [Sanchez and 
Oxnard] step up. to some goals.
The team played well as a whole.
Halfway through the second 
period, goalie Kliegman was 
pulled from the game and re
placed by sophomore Derek 
Jander. The fans saw the depth 
in the goaltending department 
as Jander stopped 17 hard shots, 
including a number of tough, topshelf zingers.
In the third period, the Stars 
scored twice, but were plagued 
by penalty minutes as verbal 
sparring on the ice was not toler
ated by officials.
The Stars were serving two 10- 
minute misconducts by the end of
the third when junior right winger 
Anthony Paul slapped one past 
Stars goalie, Steve Kratsa, to 
make it 4-2, Tartans.
Throughout the three 17- 
minute periods, both teams 
racked up the penalty minutes 
and this was a concern to the 
captains of the squad.
Captain fyladdalena, who ended 
up with two assists on the night, 
viewed the 30 total game penal
ties, including three misconducts, 
as unimportant.
Special teams really worked 
all night, said post-grad student 
Tom Sullivan. It was a good
warm-up for the penalty killing 
units and the power play. They 
delivered.
Sullivan ended up with three 
assists on the night, and rookie 
defenseman Stephen Leonhadt 
played clean, hard hockey with 
no penalties.
Alternate Captain Adukaitis, 
who ended up with a goal and an 
assist for the game, said,  Stupid 
penalties will kill us in the long 
run.
The Tartans play their first 
league game of the season at 
Edinboro University in Erie on 
October 21.
Volleyball defeats 
Valley Point College
By SUDHIR REDDY
uartan Staffwriter
! The volleyball team continued their building process as 
|they approached their last stretch of the season. This past 
week, the team played three matches and won one match. 
Their season record stands at two wins and 23 losses..
Last week, the team played Valley Point in an away 
match. Head Coach Heather Hollands called this match a 
turning point that will lead the team in a new direction. 
The match was competitive as CMU won three out of five 
?ets in the 2 1/2 hour marathon.
The team hoped that this match would serve as a 
motivator later on in the week as the team would take on 
trong teams from Washington & Jefferson and Grove 
City College. That was not to be, however, as the team lost 
both matches in straight sets.
However, the team is not discouraged and is actively 
reparing for the UAA Championships held at the end of 
he season. In a previous round-robin tournament the 
team placed seventh. After many weeks of preparation, 
jhe team feels that it can do much better in its final 
patches of the season.
Hollands stated, The program is growing and developngThe players are part of a building process, and are 
setting a higher standard.
The team already has received good fortune in the first 
ound seeding, as they will not have to play Washington 
University in the first round. Usually a typical first round 
pponent, Washington is the defending Division III nalonal champion as well as the UAA champion.
Even more heartening was the teams performance in 
trong matches in the previous UAA tournament against 
/ase Western and the University of Chicago. Hollands 
Confirmed that the matches were competitive, and that the 
alented team is slowly coming together.
I Ins past Saturday, the team played at the Penn Statepehrend Tournament. Teams which were represented 
jvere Notre Dame, Lake Erie, Pitt-Johnstown, and the 
st, Penn State-Behrend.
Next week, the team will face Carlow College on WednesayThey then play in the LaRoche College Tournament 
Saturday.
s The UAA Championships will be held at Brandis Uniersity on October 27-29.
Tartans shutout local rivals Grove City, 3-0
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
After a tough loss to Rochester last Sunday, 
the mens soccer team got back in the winning 
habit in fine fashion by shutting out Grove City 
College, 3-0.
Carnegie Mellon took control of the game 
immediately, scoring less than two minutes 
into the first half. Freshman goaltender Justin 
Petro, startingfor freshman Brad McNutt, sent 
a bomb of a punt well past midfield. Sophomore 
midfielder Akira Imai trapped it, burned the 
Grove City defense, and beat their keeper with 
a hard shot to the lower right corner.
Then, with just over seven minutes left in the 
first half, freshman Dan Brody, who got the 
start at left outside midfield against Rochester 
and again against Grove City, sent in a danger
ous, bouncing ball from midfield. Imai, charg
ing up the field, receiXXved it and burned the 
keeper for a second time.
Grove City appeared to come out of the locker 
room a little more ready to play for the second
half than for the first, but the Tartans shut 
them down and eventually scored again. With
10 minutes left in the game, Imai fired a shot 
off a defender, and freshman forward Harry 
Ulrich volleyed the rebound into the net.
The defense has been playing extremely well, 
giving the Tartans four shutouts in the past 
nine games. Senior back Alan Levin has done 
a great job plugging up opponents attacks and 
helping to control the middle of the field. Junior 
backs Rich Herr and Suraj Naik are always 
solid and consistent, not to mention extremely 
fast. Freshman back Peter Truong has gained 
much experience and looks quite comfortable 
sweeping the Tartan defense.
Then there are McNutt and Petro, giving up 
no more than two goals in any one game. Petro 
stepped in for McNutt quite nicely against 
Grove City, making several spectacular and 
extremely important saves.
The Tartans played at Franklin & Marshall 
College on Sunday. They will host Bethany
Tartan File Photo
Masters student Chuck Kuba and company 
College on Wednesday, and travel to Washinghandily disposed of Grove City Wednesday night, 
ton & Jefferson on Saturday. TheY shut out the Wolverines, 3-0.
College football missing crazy, creative plays of old
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
In the often ridiculous world of 
college football, the 1993 Florida 
State Seminles would often start 
an offensive series with their sec
ond string players. They would 
trot out onto the field, run a few 
plays, pick up a first down, and 
promptly trot back to the side
line. Then, 11 fresh, first string
players would go to work. The year 
before, the Seminles used a fake 
field goal and a quarterback-towide-receiver-to-quarterback 
screen pass to help them beat a 
national favorite Michigan team. 
Coach Bobby Bowden tries to re
main imaginative in his job, but 
over the whole of college football, 
creativity has been dropped from 
the program. Where did all the in
ventiveness go? It was ruled ille
gal.
The fumblerooski, footballs 
weirdest play, was ruled illegal at 
the start of last season. The idea of 
the play is confusion. In the 
fumblerooski, when the play starts 
the quarterback places the ball on 
the ground, while the offensive linemen do their best to hide this fact. 
The quarterback and the rest of the 
team then proceed to fake an entire 
play, usually a run. Except for one 
of the offensive guards, who picks 
up the ball and runs downfield with 
it. While risky, this worked a sur
prising amount of the time. The 
play proved difficult for even the 
officials to follow, which is why it 
was banned.
Besides being banned,' creative, 
risky plays are discouraged by the 
rulebook. In many ways, the fun 
plays that take advantage of the 
defense have been rendered too dif
ficult to execute. The onside lack is 
often a teams last hope at victory. 
It rarely works in college though 
because if the ball goes out of bounds
the receiving team is awarded the 
ball, even if the kicking team 
knocked it out.
Two point attempts are harder in 
college. In the pros, the ball is placed 
on the two-yard line after touch
downs. In college, the attempt be
gins at the three-yard line. The 
defense is also limited. As a de
fender, you cant pick up and run 
with a fumbled snap or backward 
pass.
Hurdling other players? NFL: 
legal, college: not. Players num
bered 50-79 can never be eligible 
receivers in college. In the pros, 
such a numbered player can re
port to the official to be declared 
eligible. Passing to the offensive 
Please see CREATIVE, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

{r) France Telecom
France Telecom is the fourth largest telecommunications operator in the world. In the US, France Telecom 
North America meets the international communications needs of US-based multinational corporations.
In France, the company provides the full spectrum of telecommunications services. A leader in digital 
technology, France Telecom offers services for the voice, data, cellular, satellite and cable TVsectors.
If you are interested in joining a company on the fast track to the 21st century, come and meet with us.
Presentation on October 18. 
Interviews on October 19.
Candidates should meet the following criteria:
 BS or MS in Electrical or Computer Engineering; Information & Decision Systems; Industrial
Management
Willingness to apply technical expertise in the business environment
 Familiarity with communications technology
 Knowledge of a Romance or Germanic language
For further information, contact the Career Center.
We look forward to meeting with you.
COMPLIMENTARY PASSES
EXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS' CARDMEMBERS.
WHEN & WHERE.
October //, 7:30pm 
Beehive Coffee House
WHAT.
Cardmembers get two compli
mentary passes to MGM Pictures 
blockbuster Get Shorty.
HOW.
Just bring the American Express 
Card or Optima Card and your 
student ID to the location listed 
below to pick up your passes. 
NOW.
If youre not yet a Cardmember 
and would like to take part in 
our exclusive previews, its easy 
to apply for the Card. Just call 
1 -800-942-AMEX, ext. 4114.
MORE TO COME.
Get Shorty is the first in a series 
of five major motion pictures to 
be previewed on your campus 
this year, compliments of 
American Express.
PICK UP YOUR TICKETS HERE.
Pitde bi--
October 9 - October 11
 tasi -h -- i ;rHiraH!;l
The
American
Film
Institute
When You're Considering a
Career in Information Technology,
Consider One More Thing.
Consider the investment banking firm with 
opportunities in information technology 
throughout the world. Where individuals with 
an interest in working in North America, 
Europe or the Asia-Pacific region have the 
chance to join a department central to the 
growth and success of nearly every facet of its 
global business. Where the skills to develop and 
maintain state-of-the-art computer and tele
communication systems are provided through 
a series of technical and industry-oriented train
ing sessions. Where the talent of each individual 
is an integral part of the team effort. And 
consider the firm where those individuals who 
choose to accept the challenges set before them 
are given the opportunity to excel both profes
sionally and personally.
In short, consider the 
Information Technology at Goldman Sachs.
Information Session 
Thursday, October 12, 1995 
7:00 - 9:00 pm 
Student Center - Room 208
For more information, please visit our 
Web Site at: http://www.gs.com/
EMail: gs-techjobs@gs.com
Students majoring in telecommunications, computer science. MIS. 
math or engineering, or who have taken computer-related courses 
and have a strong knowledge of "C" language, PC Workstations 
and LAN are welcome.
1995 American Express Travel Related Services Company. Inc.
(joklmanSadis
Goldman Sachs. an equal opportunity employer. does nul discriminate in 
employment on any basis that is prohibited by lederai, siate or local law.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 199511
Crew team rows in Head of the Ohio
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
fartan Sports Co-Editor
This past weekend, nearly 800 rowers 
from about 100 teams flocked to the Steel 
City for the annual Head of the Ohio rowing 
regatta. The event, sponsored by the Three 
Rivers Rowing Association, featured club 
teams, a few high school squads, and a 
number of college teams, including Carnegie 
Mellons Rowing Club.
The club had a number of boats row well in 
spite of rough winds and choppy waters that 
swamped one of their boats. Fifth-year stu
dent, Matt Jezyks bronze medal in the mens 
recreational singles race was one of the high
lights of the Tartans performance. He was 
followed by teammate senior Jeff Coyne in 
sixth place. Graduate student Adrian Ciocoi 
finished fourth in the mens open singles
division. He was followed by junior Ben Fry 
in 16th place.
Sophomore Anne Sluzhevsky highlighted 
the womens performance by winning her 
division in the womens rec singles race. 
Fellow Tartan freshman Julian Kinal fin
ished ninth in the same race. Lily Cheung 
alsorowed well, finishing eighth in the 
womens racing singles competition.
The team boats also put in strong perfor
mances for CMU. The mens-four teams 
finished eighth and 16th in a field of 24. The 
team of Fry, sophomore Urs Batzel, juior 
Todd Stevenson; sophomore Jeff Willey, 
and sophomore coxswain Oliver Sung fin
ished eighth. The boat with John Pasewicz, 
Bill Posega, John Cosnek, Chris Fetter, 
and coxswain freshman Alan Klein fin
ished 16th.
The womens-four boat of senior Amy
Haupl, sophomore Jennie Kolar, junior 
Amanda Talbott, fifth-year student Karen 
Knepper, and coxswain Klein crossed the 
line in 13th place. The mens doubles tan
dem of senior George C. Scott and senior 
Rick Gordon finished 11th in their race, 
and the mixed-doubles squad of senior 
Howard Meisner and graduate student 
Kirsten Butler completed their race in 
eighth place.
The mens-eight squad consisted of junior 
Peter Moore, Jezjk, Stevenson, Scott, se
nior Jamie Bickley, Fetter, Batzel, Willy, 
and coxswain Sung.
The team will race in Columbus, Ohio on 
October 28. They then travel to Washing
ton, D.C. for the Head of the Occoquan race 
on November 4. The novice boats then face 
off against Duquesne and Pitt in the 
CarDuPitt race.Major league owners ruin TV coverage
as that of the NCAA tournament 
in which instantaneous switches 
can be made to other games in 
progress such that viewers may 
catch the highlights.
cerned, not only do we not see all 
the games until the World Series, 
but after the regional game is 
through, they dont bother to 
switch over to the end of another.
5) Providing an announcing Therefore, if you are a die hard 
crew which brings together a comYankees fan living in Austin, 
ThO SlJIClde Squeeze bination of one local announcer Texas, forget about it.
by Anuj Gupta
Its the bottom of the ninth, 
bases loaded, two down, a 3-2 
count, the home teams down by 
three... and now lets switchback 
to the post-game interview in 
Atlanta.
Huh? What could I possibly be 
speaking of? If you watched any 
of the divisional playoff games 
this week, you know exactly what 
Im talking about. The fact that I 
have missed some of the most 
exciting moments and games in 
recent baseball history is just one 
of the fallacies of The Baseball 
Network.
Ayear prior to the great demise 
of the national pastime, a group 
of 28 living, breathing idiots (ma
jor league owners) decided that 
the best way to improve televi
sion ratings for baseball would be
by:1) Eliminating the traditional 
game of the week a constant 
that was property of either NBC 
or CBS since the 50s.
2) Showing one regional game 
of the week either Friday or Sat
urday nights during the regular 
season.
3) Starting all playoff games at 
the same time such that viewers 
only see the matchup featuring 
the regional team.
4) Designing the focus of play
off coverage to be much the same
along with one outside announcer.
Can I point to one benefit of 
this system? No. So lets get right 
down to the problems.
Since I was a child, one of 
the dearest parts of my life 
was sitting down every 
Saturday afternoon and 
watching the game of 
the week. Whether it 
was the Padres vs. the 
Expos or the Brewers 
vs. the Angels, some
how the aura of the 
game, in combina
tion with the stellar an
nouncing crews (Bob Costas 
& Tony Kubek, Vin Scully &
Joe Garagiolla,etc.) always made 
the game more than interesting 
to watch.
It was also achance to see teams 
which (pre-ESPN) I normally 
would not have seen until possi
bly in October,
Now, not only are the games 
shown on Friday or Saturday 
night, when most people are out, 
but the only games one can see 
are those of your local team  
games that would have been 
shown on a local network anyway 
(especially in the days of cable 
TV). The announcing crews are 
poor as well, as they usually take 
one local announcer whose voice 
you can hear 162 days out of the 
year and combine him with a no
name national announcer.
As far as the post-season is conClearly, baseball is not a game 
in which one can quickly switch 
over to another game (usually in 
the split screen format) and cap
ture the essence of what is
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
screen views are so small that is 
often difficult to see exactly what 
is happening. Baseball is a game 
of increments; to show one pitch, 
one at bat, etc., can do no justice 
to the game.
An example was game three of 
the Mariners vs. Yankees divi
sional playoffs. In the fifth in
ning, Randy J ohnson of the Mari
ners loaded up the bases with 
Yankees, and, with one swing of 
the bat, the Yankees could have 
blown the game wide open.
Fortunately, we were able to 
see the last at bat, but what about 
everything that led up to it? 
Watching the Yankees load up 
the bases would have been more 
exciting than watching one man 
strike out.
Baseball is not basketball or
football, and never should be 
compared as such. It is a 
game of timelessness, while 
the others live by the clock. 
To put constraints like these 
on the ability of a viewer to 
watch a game is even more 
menacing. How can this pos
sibly increase interest in the 
game?
There are a number of 
changes which will have to 
be made in order to set tele
vision, baseball, and com
mon sense on the right 
foot. Topics such as dif
ferent starting times 
for games, best of 
seven divisional se
ries (as opposed to 
best of five), mak
ing the other games 
available on ESPN, etc., 
have all been promised by 
the owners to be discussed in 
the near future. But, lately, I 
believe that I have heard 
nothing but promises. Its 
time for somebody to deliver.
Anuj Gupta is a senior pub
lic policy major.
Administration
IM Director  Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214; Asst. Director Mike Grzywinski, 
683-2938; IM Secretary  Michelle 
Matta, X8-2053; IM Co-PresidentsMike 
Monico and Sean Keane, x2-2900; IM 
Womens Pres.  Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
Sunday, October 8 IM Football Play
offs begin.
Monday, October 9  IM Volleyball 
Schedule  Pick up in IM Office 12 pm.
Tuesday, October 10  IM Volleyball 
begins.
Wednesday, October 11  IM Racquetball schedules can be picked up in 
the IM office.
Thursday, October 12  IM Soccer 
schedules are completed; pickthem up in 
IM office.
Thursday, October 12  Entries due: 
Team Table Tennis (Doubles), Darts.
Thursday, October 12  IM Football 
Championships, 8:30 and 9:30 at Gesling 
Stadium.
Thursday, October 19  Intramural 
Soccer begins.
Tuesday, October 24  Intramural 
Board meeting, 12:30 pm.
IM Football
Playoffs have started. The 1995 Intra
mural Touch Football playoffs started on 
Sunday, October 8. A field of 16 Minors 
teams entered the play with a shot at 
capturing the 1995 Minors Football Cham
pionship. The top four Minors seeds are:
1. Delt Scrubs
2. PKT Silent Rage
3. Beta All-Stars
4. 69ers
In the Womens playoffs, defending 
champions Tartan Hoopers enterthe play
offs as the number one seed. The Tartan 
Hoopers will play the winner of BBE vs. 
Theta/DG game for the Womens Cham
pionship at 8:30 on Thursday, October 
12.
The Majors defending champion SAE 
Champions enters the playoffs as the top 
seed. However, NP-Completlons, Beta 
Colemans #83, Hit Squad, Gang Green 
and PiKA have had impressive showings.
The majors championship will be 
played at 9:30 on Thursday, October 
12. Everyone is welcome to attend 
Championship Night at Gesling Sta
dium that evening.
Co-Rec Volleyball
The Intramural Department congratu
lates the following 1995 Co-Rec Volley
ball Champions:
Minors: THE CLOWNS 
Intermediate: SAE IRON CITY 
Majors: RUDE DOGS.
IIV1 Cross Country Meet
Congratulations to thefollowingteam 
and individual winners in the 1995 
Intramural Cross Country meet, held on 
Wednesday, October 4. Special con
gratulations to Tyson Baker, who dis
covered a new course trail forthe 1996 
Intramural Cross Country meet.
Male-Individual
Matt Beam  Beta
Female-Individual
Kerry Riley  Tartan Hoopers
Team-Male
SAE
Team-Female 
Tartan Hoopers
Tennis
The 1995 Intramural Tennis Playoffs 
begin tonight at 7 pm. In case of rain, 
all games will be played the following 
night.
All teams should check the Intramu
ral Office for the rain-out reschedule.
Soccer
All teams are reminded to pick up the 
1995 Intramural Soccer schedules this 
Thursday, October 12 in the IM Office. 
The first night of intramural soccer 
gameswill be playedthefollowingThursday, October 19. There are a total of 85 
teams in four leagues.
Officials are still needed. All inter
ested officials should call Intramural 
Director Mike Mastroianni (x8-2214).
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
classified
HOUSING
r Squirrel Hill House  1 Irg BR w/ 
alcony, Male, 275 /month, easy walk to 
MU, Bartlett St,.422-7670.
"iorth Oakland. 2 BR Apt w/w carpet, 
/C, parking available short term lease 
ccepted. 495 + electric 362-2049. Ask 
fpr Dianne or Virginia.
estored Victorian House  ISO 
sponsible non-smoker to share house 
in Homestead with male roommate, 
ardwood floors, laundry, private bath, 
uiet street, near bus. No pets. S300 
eludes utilities. 464-5119.
Jrnished rooms for female students in orth Oakland. Share bathrooms and 
tchen. Rent starts $225 and up, and 
1 utilities included. Walking distance to 
MU & pitt. Close to Giant Eagle and 
undry. Call 624-7299 or 934-0387.
ave messages.
OBS
PRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE with Sun 
lash Tours, "The Reliable Spring Break 
Jmpany!" We pay the highest 
^missions, at the lowest prices, 
ampus reps wanted to sell Jamaica, 
ancun, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama 
ity and South Padre. Call for informan, reservations & prices. 1-800-426- 
710.
Client extra income now. Envelope 
uffing$600 - $800 every week.
details: SASE to International Inc. 
375 Coney Island Ave. Brooklyn, New 
11230.
Male sitter wanted for a retarded adult. 
One afternoon/evening a week. 
Edgewood. Must have car. Some 
housework. References. 241-9198.
Music.
Attn Students! Scholarships available to 
all! Deadlines occur throughout the year. 
$99 Guaranteed. Call now for more 
information. (412) 788-2935.
Free financial aid! Over $6 billion in 
private sector grants & scholarships is 
now available. All students are eligible 
regardless of grades, income, or parent's 
income. Let us help. Call student 
Financial Services: 1-800-263-6495 ext. 
F52361.
SERVICES
TRAVEL
Free trips & cash! Find out how 
hundreds of students are already earning 
free trips and lots of cash with America's 
#1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 
trips and travel free! Choose Cancn, 
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! Call now! 
Take a break student travel (800) 95- 
BREAK!
No need to pay high airfares to Asia> 
Europe, and Central/South America. Call 
Mercur-Lombardo Travel Agency at 412- 
751-0300 or T-800-367-6582 for the best 
prices. Serving the traveling public for 
over 45 years.
yOLUNTEER
Volunteers needed: job Assistants for 
blind woman at Oakland non-profit 
agency. Please call Birthright 621 -1967 
for more information.
International StudentsVisitors. DV-1 
Greencard Program, by U.S. Immigra
tion. Legal Services Tel (818) 772-7168 
#20231 Stagg St. Canoga Park, CA 
91 306.
Lose weightdoctor recommended 
herbal and nutritional programs-easy, 
safe, comfortable. I dropped 6 dress sizes 
in 8 weeks, without drugs, exercise, or 
crazy diets! Kelly 429-5894.
ALEX'S FLOWERS for romance, birthday, 
anniversary, platonic and more. 687- 
4128. DELIVERY 687-ALEX. Group 
discounts and Greek discounts.
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$8.00/wk
21-50 words.........$10.00/wk
51-100 words.....$13.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and organiza
tions may pay by journal transfer.
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
When You're Considering an
Internship in Information Technology,
Consider One More Thing.
Consider the investment banking firm that is 
. an international leader in virtually every field of 
investment and finance. Where leading edge 
information technology is at the center of the 
firm's growth and success. Where you are given 
the chance to participate in a challenging 
internship position which may include devel
oping, maintaining and monitoring global com
puter systems and telecommunication networks. 
Where interns get to work alongside the most 
highly accomplished information technology 
and investment banking professionals. And 
consider the firm where an emphasis on team
work, individual responsibility, creativity and 
initiative means that interns play an integral role 
in a dynamic global financial organization.
In short, consider
Information Technology at Goldman Sachs.
Please join us at our Information Session:
Thursday October 12, 1995
7:00 - 9:00 pm
Student Center - Room 208
For more information, please visit our
Web Site at: http://www.gs.com/
EMail: gs-techjobs@gs.com
Students majoring in telecommunications, computer scicncc, MIS, 
math or engineering, or who have taken computcr-rclatcd courses 
and have a strong knowledge of "C language, PC Workstations 
and LAN arc welcome.
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in 
employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local law.
(joldmnn
SilCllS

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995
New video game sure to thrill hockey fanatics
Crashing the Net
by Jonmichael Moy
If youve been noticing your friends 
locking themselves in their dorms with 
the furious sound of tapping in the back
ground, its probably because they have 
Electronic Arts NHL Hockey 96 for ei
ther their Sega Genesis or Super 
Nintendo system. The latest installment 
of this popular hockey simulation video 
game just came out with many hockey 
' fans glued to their television screens.
NHL Hockey 96 is an absolutely fan
tastic game and picks up where the last 
version left off  with many improve
ments. It consists of all 26 NHL teams, 
with last years rosters and their new 
team logos: from the Capitals swooping 
eagle talons to the Islanders hockey 
stick-wielding fisherman. The Detroit 
Red Wings, last years winners of the 
Presidents Trophy for the best record 
overall in the regular season, are ranked 
first in the game, with Quebec Nordiques
and Pittsburgh Penguins following re
spectively.
There are three difficulty levels to 
choose from when playing against the 
computer. As you increase in difficulty, 
the computer opponents goalie improves 
to make it harder to score, and the com
puter plays a more defensively and of
fensively sound game. This feature alone 
should make this years game challeng
ing for awhile, even for the NHL Hockey 
expert.
While superstar players such as Sergei 
Fedorov and Jaromir Jagr are ranked 
among the best of the game, youll notice 
that most of the player rankings seemed 
to have be skewed higher than they 
normally would. My best guess that this 
is EAs attempt to make the weaker 
teams such as the Ottawa Senators more 
competitive in the game.
Graphics: AThe players are retouched and look 
slicker in this years version of NHL 
Hockey. Unlike last years version in 
which skaters resembled ones from 
Blades of Steel for Nintendo, players 
appear more realistic and smaller. Be
ing from Boston, its finally nice to see 
that the Bruins away jerseys are finally 
black and no longer brown. The anima
tion is absolutely hilarious, with players 
using their hockey sticks to bash open 
the penalty box door.
Damon
Music/Sound Effects: AFrom the catchy introductory theme 
to the game-ending whistle, I thought 
Electronic Art put a lot of effort in im
proving the overall sound quality of the 
game compared to last years version. 
The sound effects such as checking and 
slapshots also tend to be more crisp. 
Playability: B+
First came the one-timers move, and 
so this year Electronic Arts introduced
the spinorama move 
which allows you to 
deke out goalies for the 
easy score if its ex
ecuted properly.
Controlling your 
players on the ice sur
face is fairly easy, but 
the same cannot be 
said about passing in 
the game. This makes 
relaying a pass to that 
player in the open ice 
and setting up for 
those one-timers a bit 
harder. People have 
said that switching 
from player to player 
is more frustrating in 
this game, because 
there are times when 
the computer doesnt 
Wong/Tartan Artist allow you to switch.
Another feature that many people will 
notice when playing this years version 
is that passes and shots no longer have 
a tendency to fly off the screen.
Many people in the past have com
plained that too many shots tend to fly 
out of the rink, which doesnt happen 
frequentlyin real life. This makes the 
game go much faster since you dont 
have to perform faceoffs after every puck 
flies into the stands.
Realism: A
Fighting is back, to the delight of many 
hockey fans! After NHL officials forced 
Electronic Arts to eliminate the fightim 
feature in previous versions, the league 
finally realized that fighting will always 
be part of the game. Aggressive player; 
such as Stu Grissom, Scott Stevens 
Keith Tkachuk, and Jason Amott \vifl 
be the first ones in the game ready to 
drop their gloves.
When two players square off, you can 
hit the other player in the head or mid. 
section, and now you can even pull the 
jersey over their head.
The scoring is more realistic in this 
years version, with-defensemen finally 
having the ability to score from the point 
The infamous breakaway move sometimes works, which makes scoring more 
challenging. Goalies also have a ten
dency to let in a soft goal at times.
If you have a video games system and 
dont have NHL Hockey 96 yet, what are 
you waiting for?
NHL Hockey 96 by Electronic Arts, for 
Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo, com. 
ing soon for Sony Playstation and i 
Saturn.
Jonmichael is waiting for someone /o 
break his unbeaten streak in NHL Hockey 
96 since E.S. and E.H. cant provide 
much of a challenge for him.
Daring plays missing 
from college playbooks
CREATIVE, from page 9
tackle is a favorite way of many 
NFL teams to score tight touch
downs.
Despite the inflated numbers, 
passing is harder in college. A 
defensive back can bump and 
smash a receiver all the way up 
the field until the ball is thrown. 
Pass interference is a mere 15 
yards, as opposed to a spot of 
the foul penalty in 
the NFL. Every 
NFL quarterback 
has a coach-toquarterback elec
tronic audio system 
in his helmet. In 
college, electronic, 
mechanical, or 
other signal de
vices of communi
cation are prohib
ited.
If the ball carrier in college 
loses his footing, the play is 
over. In the NFL, the runner is 
not down until someone actu
ally tackles him.
All this explains why some 
plays are not m ade or even tried, 
but coaches as a whole have 
gotten more conservative than 
the GOP. A college playbook 
was as creative as the names of 
the plays. Wheres the hook and 
lateral, the flea-flicker, and the 
half-back pass for goodness 
sake? Florida State even did an 
old waterbucket formation 
that I last saw in a high school 
game, but not any more. I miss 
the old student-body-left run
plays of USC. Even reverses 
and quarterback bootlegs are 
being toned down.
Players used to have plays 
named for them. What hap
pened to Notre Dames Rocket 
screen? Why didnt the Fridge 
Play ever catch on in the col
lege game? Please bring back 
the Statue-of-Liberty plays. 
That magical, fun where-didFrancine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
the-ball-go play action is gone. 
There used to be reverses on 
kickoffs, open field laterals, and 
lastly the beloved option game. 
You remember, the option. 
Quarterbacks used to pitch the 
ball on every play.
Now it seems that only Ne
braska, who piles up a ridicu
lous 491.2 yards a game, uses 
it. Its as if the football has 
become something sacred, not 
to be tossed around anymore. 
When did someone ever say 
This is a sporting event, the 
ball is not to be played with?
Chris Cannon is a sophomore 
computer science major.
CMU holds on to beat Wolverines
FOOTBALL, from page 9
Soltysik hooked up with an un
covered Parrish from 41 yards 
away early in the third quarter, it 
appeared as if the 30-7 Tartan 
lead was more than comfortable. 
Parrish had a big game, with 
three catches for 121 yards and 
two touchdowns. Soltysik said he 
took what the Wolverine defense 
was giving him.
[The deep pass] was there to
day, and if its there, youve gotta 
take it, said Soltysik.
The senior quarterback, who 
played all but one series after he 
and senior Keim: Dickerson had 
split duties through the first four 
games, had a breakout day on 
Saturday. He completed nine of 
12 passes for 231 yards and 
rushed for 52 yards on 10 carries. 
Prior to the game, he said the 
coaches told him he would be play
ing more than his normal every 
other two series. This move, the 
Tartans hoped, would help bring 
continuity to an offense which 
had 11 offensive turnovers in their 
two losses this season. Several of 
those turnovers came on centerquarterback exchanges.
This whole seasons been up 
and down, he said. I dont want 
to get in [to this quarterback] 
thing. It just worked out that I 
played today.
Lackner also said that the quar
terback situation has not yet 
been resolved, maintaining that 
he and the other coaches would 
have to look at game films be
fore any decisions would be made 
about the position.
For the second straight week, 
the Tartan defensive theme 
seemed to be Bend, But Dont 
Break. Against the Wolverines 
on Saturday, they nearly broke. 
Taking over at their own 16 yard 
line with 11 minutes to go in the 
third quarter, Grove City used 
22 plays and over 11 minutes to 
reach the end zone. Hollenbaugh 
went in from the one to make the 
score 30-14 eight seconds into 
the fourth quarter.
Rockwell completed seven of 
ten passes on the drive for 56 
yards. The senior used the short 
pass well all game, hitting on 20 
of 41 attempts for 238 yards and 
one interception. Most of those 
yards came on completions of 
ten yards or less, as the Wolver
ines were content to throw short 
under the coverage of the Tar
tans, who didnt want to give up 
the big play on the muddy Grove 
City field.
They ran a three level 
stretchone [receiver] deep, one 
intermediate, and one short, 
said defensive coordinator Terry 
Bodnar. Theyre going to com
plete some of those, and we just
have to come up and make the 
tackles. They ran a few things we 
didnt expect today.
Rockwell had thrown only 86 
times in the four previous Grove 
City games.
If the long drive in the third 
quarter took the wind out of the 
Tartan bellies, Scott left them 
gasping for air on the Wolves 
next possession, as he sprinted 
73 yards untouched up the middle 
of the field to trim the lead to 30 
22. Jason Wolfe added a 33-yard 
field goal for Grove City to ac
count for the final margin.
Neupaver continued his im-! 
pressive play on Saturday. The 
sophomore halfback seemed to 
be one of the few players on the 
field not affected by its slick state, 
as he twirled, slashed, and spun 
his way to two rushing touch
downs and 206 all-purpose yards. 
On defense, Locke had 11 tackles 
to go with his game-saving; play, 
and freshman kicker Gregg Miller 
hit two of three extra points and 
a 19-yard field goal.
The Tartans host Washington 
University in Saturdays Home
coming game at 2 pm.
Presidents 
fall to CMU
SOCCER, from page 9
header by Poisson among heavy 
defensive pressure in front of 
the W&J goal.
Head Coach Ann Haggerty 
said, We completely dominated 
the game. At first, we didnt 
catch on [that we could take the 
ball in close] so we shot from far 
out a lot. In the second half, we 
got a lot more aggressive 
shot from the box.
Casella said, Overall, we 
were definitely a stronger team. 
We just totMly outshot them. 
The Tartan's tallied 39 shots on 
goal to the Presidents two. She 
said, We ran circles around 
them, and we passed well... 
Their goal was just a break
down. It should not have hap
pened.
The Tartans will travel to 
Seton Hill College on October 
10. They then return fora 
Homecoming matchup nex! 
Sunday against Wittenber 
College at 1 pm and a game 
Wednesday against Bethany 
College at 7:30 pm.
Celebrate Tradition
With a
Balfour 
Class Ring!
College memories can last a life
time, when theyre preserved in a 
Balfour Class Ring. Sports, 
academics, degrees, years of 
graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
jouve V,a<i mfroMea Ss,!
>r usj iiyactiort
unless ou jat tested. Veil -fell jou 
Vere 1 30 fr fee. conftM"
counseling anj -fes-finj.
Gie^
Cll i-&00~6Gx-60&0.
 Message in the Interest of Bettet Health, from the Department of Health Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Thursday, Friday. & Saturday
October 12, 13, & 14
Thursday & Friday 10:00 - 3:00 PM
Saturday 10:00- 1:00 AM
Baker Hall
$35.00 Deposit
Balfour* M one remembers in so many ways.
haircut and related services for just 17.95 with selected 
designers. Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, styling, Wow dry and styling lesson! 
Present your Student ID lo get your Philip Pelusi Student 
Discount Card. Free Consultations Every Day!
Voted ffl Salon for Haircuts by The City Piper, 
to Pittsburgh ind The Pittsburgh Tribune Review.
Squirrel Hill............................... 521-1200
One Oxford Centre.......................261-6550
Century III Mall........................... 655-1940
Village Square Mall....................... 833-6770
Westmoreland Mall.......................836-6670
Koss Park Mall............................366-1555
Robinson Town Centre....................788-0294
. Monroeville Mall..........................372-7520l( About Our Design Team | Training Session Haircuts... Just 10.95.
30 Years  A Cut Above tbe
%

---------------------------------------------------

T TfTTl T/MHESDDHEBopiBilLivir^vj
Carnegie museums 
celebrate 100 years
Homecoming weekend commemorates alumni, promises diversion
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The University will com
memorate the more than 700 
Carnegie Tech alumni who 
served in World War II this 
Homecoming Weekend (Octo
ber 13-15) with a series of ac
tivities including a vintage air
craft flyover, 21-gun salute, and 
keynote address by William 
Perry, the U.S. secretary of de
fense.
A roughly 15-member Home
coming Committee has been 
planning for the weekend since 
last spring.
Katrina Lutz, Homecoming 
chair, said that the committee 
wanted to bring back some more 
traditional homecoming activities.
Were having a bonfire, a 
Homecoming Gala, the High
lander Games ... lots of events 
that both students and alumni 
can participate in, said Lutz, a 
junior industrial management 
major.
The weekend kicks off Friday 
with a platinum reunion of 
alumni from classes as early 
as 1920. The Canteentwo 
WWII Army tents full of war 
memorabilia and vintage ve
hicles  will be on display 
on the CFA lawn during each 
afternoon of Homecomings 
three-day run.
Throughout the afternoon, 
several University depart
ments and colleges will host 
open houses. There will also be a 
tour of the Warhol Museum with 
a CFA professor, and a Margaret 
Morrison alumnae tea.
That evening on the Cut, there 
will be an inaugural WWII cer
emony and parade, featuring drill
demonstration from CMU ROTC 
students, a WWII cannon and an 
Air Force flyover.
At 7 pm there will be an eightby-eight-foot bonfire on the lawn 
between Donner, the new dorms, 
and Margaret Morrison that will
President Robert Mehrabian will 
lead the festivities Saturday 
morning with an address titled, 
Building a Modern Research 
University (1965-1995). 
Afterwards there will be a se
ries of workshops including How 
to Write a Good 
Obituary with 
physics profes
sor Hugh Young, 
and a drawing 
class for non-art
ists with art pro
fessor Herb Olds. 
The HighAndrew Wong/Tartan Artist lander Games, a
race and crab-walk soccer.
All participants will receive free 
t-shirts; the winners will have 
their names engraved on a tro
phy said Jason Andracki, head of 
the Games Committee.
Its just a fun event... people 
used to just stand around and 
watch what was going on, but the 
new way keeps people involved, 
said Andracki, a junior profes
sional writing major.
That afternoon, the traditional 
students/alumni picnic will be 
held in the Tent. Ticket prices 
have been reduced to $4.95 for 
students and can be paid for usbe lit by Michael Murphy, dean of 
student affairs and offer free 
smores courtesy of Student Dor
mitory Council. The Carnegie 
Mellon orchestra will give a con
cert at the Carnegie Music Hall 
that night at 8 pm.University
revised version of ing DineXPress, CampusXPress 
the traditional Scottish event, will or cash. At 12:30 pm, there will be 
be held that morning on the IM a 20-minute USO performance 
field. Instead of the tossing of on the main stage, 
the caber, student teams comAfter lunch, alumni will gather 
posed of three men and three at the Fence for a parade into 
women will compete in five Gesling Stadium for the Homeevents, including a five-legged coming game. At half-time the
veterans will be honored with a 
flyover, music of the 40s by the 
Kiltie Band, and a 21-gun sa
lute with 1942 Howitzers.
That night, alumni can party 
at the Homecoming Gala in the 
gym featuring a catered buffet 
dinner, short skits from Scotch 
n Soda actors, raffles through
out the evening for gift certifi
cates, and the music of the Pat 
Oliver Band and the Carnegie 
Pipe Band.
Homecoming Weekend will 
come to a close Sunday with the 
keynote address by Perry en
titled, A Welcome Home: 
Carnegie Salutes its World War
II Veterans.
Organizers of the Homecom
ing Weekend recommend that 
students and faculty take the 
opportunity to meet and talk 
with alumni and the WWII vetBy SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calender Editor
The Carnegie Museum  one of Pittsburghs 
greatest cultural outlets  celebrated its 100th 
anniversary over the weekend. The museums of 
Art and Natural History, the Science Center and 
the Andy Warhol Museum entertained patrons for 
free for 28 exciting hours.
The Carnegie Centennial kicked off Friday night 
with events at all locations, including the Main 
Library. Friday night began with a number of 
parties and celebrations that would last through 
the night continuing into Saturdays events, which 
ended at 9 pm.
While The Science Center hosted a rave between 
3 and 5 am featuring Disco Tech, the Warhol 
Museum hosted a drag queen pageant. The drag 
queens seemed to be the highlight of the evening, 
as people formed huge lines outside the museum 
anticipating their appearance.
Seeing that Warhol himself had done drag, it 
was fitting to hold the contest here, said Dane 
FeFe Damina DOpulence, a contestant that night. 
Were proud to have a connection with such a man 
and its wonderful to see Pittsburgh open its arms 
to us, he added.
Essentially its important to come, because we 
get in for free, said Allison Wall, a philosophy 
major at the University of Pittsburgh. Once you 
get past the people staring at the men dressed in 
drag, its quite exciting.
The Museum of Art sponsored cult films Friday 
night, in addition to drawing games and new ex
hibits in the Scaife galleries.
We want a lot of people to come out who dont
usually come to the Museum, said Wendy Osher, 
the director of the Childrens studios at the Mu
seum of Art. In that way they can see what the 
Museum has to offer and what theyre missing. I 
think its a wonderful experienceits a sample of 
people you dont usually meet on the street, one of 
the few times we get a chance to be with the 
intelligent sects of the Pittsburgh community. Not 
only has the past two days been a fun, its served to 
educate, which is the main purpose of what were 
doing, she said.
Most people who attended the events found the 
turnout to be promising, as many people swarmed 
Forbes Ave. for the celebration, even if they didnt 
know about the Centenniel.
Its cool that everyones so down with it, said 
Paco Mahone, a music major at the University of 
Pittsburgh and a volunteer at the Warhol Museum 
during the Centennial. People in our city are 
interested in what were doing. The arts of Pitts
burgh are raging and that is so cool, he added.
In order to control the crowd inside the Museum, 
only a few people were allowed inside at a time, a 
sign of the events popularity.
Its thrilling to see so many people. Its so packed 
inside that you cant help but hear what others are 
saying about the work displayed. I love to listening 
to some of these comments,  said Oscher.
Following her lead, I too, decided to eavesdrop on 
a conversation or two at the Warhol Museum, since 
it was a rare occasion that I would get the opportu
nity to hear weird comments from intelligent people.
Its like a man holding a little piglet. I dont 
know  its like all I can think about are little 
piglets, said one visitor Friday night, in response 
Please see CARNEGIE, page L5
Patrons examine dinosuar bones in the Carnegie Museum of Natural History.
v_______'
Benjamin Baum sits beside the tented fountains outside the Carnegie Museum of Art.
All photos by Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
A group of friends walk through the decorated sidewalks outside the Carnegie Library.
i

---------------------------------------------------

Columnist airs dirty laundry
Exploring CMU
by Andrew Wang
A fetid, lumbering pile of dirty 
laundry prowled Joes room and 
grinned balefully at him, dar
ing him to clean it.
Joe was terrified of doing his 
laundry, especially at CMU, so 
he had been without clean 
clothes for more than a week. 
He remembered that it had cost 
him $4.75 to buy a six-pack of 
laundry tokens and detergent 
the last time he did his laun
dry.
He had to run his laundry 
through the dryer three times 
before his clothes were dry.
One time, the funky plastic 
token had been jammed inside 
the slot and the machine re
fused to work, forcing him to 
move all his clothes to another 
machine.
While waiting for his laundry 
to dry, he ate at one of CMUs fine 
dining facilities.
When he returned to the laun
dry room, he saw a big pile of 
laundry on the ground.
He checked his drying machine 
and found some unfamiliar, cold, 
wet clothes in it. Joe realized that 
the big pile of laundry on the 
ground was his own...
Exaggerated as the introduc
tory story may sound to some 
readers, many students actually 
suffer something similar to the 
fate of our fictitious laundry cru
sader.
Joe abhors his laundry situa
tion at CMU. He does not believe 
that the experience of overpriced 
and inefficient laundry facilities 
are worth the moent that he pays. 
What do real students think about 
laundry at CMU?
Fifty random, Cut-wandering 
CMU students were surveyed 
about their opinions on laundry. 
On average, students from the 
surveyed group did their laundry 
every 12.9 days, paid an average 
of $3.27 and spent 2 hours and 17 
minutes each time they did it. 
Both the dryers on and off-campus took an average of 1.7 tries to
dry clothes to the satisfaction 
of the group surveyed.
Students who do their laun
dry at CMU rated their satis
faction with the laundry facili
ties an average of 6.5 out of 10, 
while students who do their 
laundry off-campus rated their 
satisfaction with the laundry 
facilities an average of 5.6 out 
of 10.
On average, students in the 
group surveyed who use the 
CMU facilities are more satis
fied than students who do their 
laundry off-campus.
However, students who do 
their laundry at CMU feed an 
average of $3.44 into the laun
dry machines each time they 
do their laundry, while off-cam
pus students pay an average of 
$2.78 each time they do their 
laundry.
CMU students must choose 
between price, satisfaction and 
convenience. It is up to the 
laundry facilities to make that 
choice easier.
Andrew Wang is a sophomore 
in Electrical Engineering and 
Computer Science who ran out 
of clean clothes two weeks ago.
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995Pornography may empower men
Cracking the Myth
by Amber Benezra
Pornography is a confusing 
thing to me. On one hand, you 
have the Andrea Dworkins of the 
world who call themselves femi
nists and say that censorship pro
tects women. On the other hand, 
you have the Pat Califias who say 
that women arent helpless, sex
less beings, and they dont need 
to be protected. My dilemma is 
that pornography really does ob
jectify and degrade 
and can be potentially 
dangerous to women.
But do I want to risk 
being aligned with the 
right wing conserva
tives who think that 
pom (along with many 
forms of art) are dirty 
and unwholesome?
Recently, this situation came 
up in my everyday life. Two 
women friends of mine, both femi
nists, saw the movie Showgirls. 
One said that it was entertaining
- not much in the way of plot, but 
kind of sexy (with all those naked 
people running around). The 
other said that it was disgusting 
and offensive, and that all the 
relationships between characters, 
all the depictions of women were 
misogynistic. How do you resolve 
that?
Social purity movements, ones 
that decry porn and hold a fam
ily values perspective are always 
headed by the GOP: men who 
want to keep women down, who 
think they have a right to dictate 
the First Amendment, control 
womens sexuality and ulti
mately, their bodies. But how can 
you ignore the fact that mens 
magazines and pomos inevita
bly affect the way women are
perceived and consequently 
treated in capitalist society?
An even more problematic situ
ation is the fact that anti-porn 
legislation eventually affects sex 
workers.
The law cracks down on prosti
tution, and women who are just 
trying to make a living in a patri
archy are unprotected against 
rape, abuse, economic and social 
violence.
I dont know if anything can 
really be done about the way porn 
affects women, because it seems 
as if every attempt to control or 
eliminate porn is really just an 
anti-women, anti-gay scheme. In 
1992, the Canadian Supreme 
Court created new definitions of 
obscenity, saying that, Equality 
consider ationsoverride 
[Canadas] free speech guaranThe real problem is the way that pom 
sneaks ideas of male/female 
relations into the American pysche.
tees, that porn is harmful and 
degrading to women and can 
therefore be censored.
However, many feminists like 
Thelma McCormack, professor of 
sociology at York University, and 
director of the Centre for Femi
nist Research shared this opin
ion, The Supreme Court of 
Canada doesnt give a damn about 
gender equality. It is concerned 
about control and was pleased to 
have a feminist gloss put on it. 
The fallout from this decision has 
been a harassment of gay and 
lesbian bookstores.
Ironically, gay and lesbian 
erotica and porn was seized and 
censored, while straight, gener
ally misogynistic porn remained 
unregulated, even though the 
whole movement started to pro
tect women.
More important issues like rape 
and domestic violence go unad
dressed, women are portrayed as 
increasingly fragile, while under
the guise of protection, conservatives assault lesbians and gays.
Obviously, the real solution 
would be to change the way 
women are seen under the male 
gaze, to show they are powerful 
and sexual and not to merely ob
jectify them. Unfortunately, that 
would require a restructuring of 
our entire social, political, and 
economic structure, and I dont 
see that happening anytime soon.
The big problem is the way that 
porn sneaks ideas of male/female 
relations into the American 
psyche. Last week in my fiction 
class, some boy wrote a story 
about this guy who is spying on 
his neighbors. The husband is 
raping the wife, and instead of 
calling the police, the guy mas
turbates. It turns out th wife 
loves it anyhow. Not only does he 
___________________ perpetu
ate the 
 every 
woman 
wants to 
be raped 
myth, he 
totally 
sexualizes this incredibly violent and 
terrible tiling. The most disturbing part of it all, was that the men 
in my class were laughing about 
the story; saying that it was a 
little too graphic, (mostly they 
were complaining about a scene 
with some semen init) but mostly 
funny. From my perspective, it 
read like some soft-core pom, and 
it was extremely offensive and 
destructive.
Living in a woman-hating 
world, I really dont need to be 
bombarded with these totally 
false, totally objectifying images 
of women in my fiction class.
One guy said to me, Hey, why 
are you making this into such a 
big deal? Whats the problem? 
The problem? The problem is 
that women are treated like crap, 
and no one seems to think that 
that is a very big deal'.
Amber Benezra is a senior En
glish major.
West Wing9.0|
Resnik7-3]
Hammerschlag7.0
McGill7.0
Margaret Mprrison6.5|
Cathedral Mansions6.0
Doherty Apartments6.0
Morewood5.9|
Boss5.5|
Henderson 4.0
Mudqe 4.0
Scobell 1.01
Overall Average6.31
On-Campus Average6.S|
Off-Campus Average5.6!
miepulT dio-x-fT nif-p.w
Graphic by Karri Plotkin/Tartan Artist, Kathy Hu/Production Manager
Ratings are on scale from 1 to 10 of how satisfied the 
respondent was with the on-campus laundry facility.
/ \i

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995L3
Tai Chi club begins
By KAORIAOYAMA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Tai Chi Chuan, or, supreme 
ultimate boxing, is a new club 
that will be here at CMU this 
year. It is a yoga-like art (prac
ticed upright), that combines the 
martial arts method with deep 
abdominal breathing. Based on 
the ancient Taoist art of inter
nal alchemy and m artial arts from 
Henan Province China, it is not 
only a good way to get in shape, 
but it brings good health, relax
ation, and, ultimately, harmony 
of the spirit.
Tai Chi Chuuan differs from' 
boxing in the sense that the 
punching, kicking, and weapons 
skills that the martial artists (boxWu Tang temple ways of rejuve
nation, said Haddad.
Tai Chi Chuan is a 300-400 
years-old practice from mainland 
China. Its legend goes back even 
further in time, with its origina
tor being a legendary immortal 
figure by the name of Zhiang Sin 
Feng, who was a teacher on 
Wudang Mountain. Eventually, 
three styles of supreme ultimate 
boxing came about, the Yang, the 
Chen, and the Wu, each named 
respectively for the three great 
teachers of Tai Chi Chuan. So 
far, about 30 people have ex
pressed interest in the seminars 
and the actual practices and are 
involved in Tai Chi Chuan. 
Freshmen to seniors to CMU pro
fessors who have shown interest
Everybody should learn Tai Chi 
Chuan. It is one of the great trea
sures of humanity. 
 Anton Haddad, teacher of Tai Chi
ers) use are practiced very slowly, 
almost in a trance-like state.
This enhances meditation be
cause one becomes aware of his 
or her time space and their exter
nal disturbances, said Anton 
Haddad, a 6th Degree Black Belt 
of Ho Chin Kung Fu, and the 
teacher of Tai Chi Chuan. It 
also slows metabolism and other 
bodily functions, even aging, said 
Haddad.
This activity is based upon the 
balance of the yin and the yang, 
which works the internal power 
of chi, which is the power that 
is derived from deep abdominal 
breathing. This is an old secret 
teaching of the Taoist masters 
who were the guardians of the
in this new club.
We expect many students to 
be interested in Tai Chi Chuan, 
said Malcolm Bauer, the Presi
dent of the club at CMU. This 
clearly mirrors the worldwide 
interest of Tai Chi Chuan, added 
Haddad. Meetings are held on 
Tuesdays from 4:30 to 6:30. There 
is no fee to participate at this 
moment in time. Everybody 
should learn Tai Chi Chuan. It is 
one of the great treasures of hu
manity, said Haddad.
Ifthe combination of good health, 
calming of the mind, and some 
additional exercise is something 
you would like to experience, con
tact Malcolm Bauer, the President 
of Tai Chi Chuan at x8-7002.
ACLU offers internships for students
By TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
The American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU) is a national 
non-profit, non-partisan orga
nization that exists solely to 
protect and preserve the rights 
guaranteed to every American 
under the Bill of Rights. Many 
people praise and support the 
ACLU for being the foremost 
advocate of individual rights.
However, those who misun
derstand the purpose of the 
ACLU admonish the organiza
tion for its position in contro
versial issues.
Witold Walczak, executive di
rector of the Pittsburgh chap
ter said, I think people dislike 
the ACLU because a lot of 
people dont understand it. 
People look and say, oh look, 
youre defending the Nazis, but 
what they dont understand is 
that in those cases we are de
fending the principle. [Were] 
defending the principle of free 
speech. You have to look be
neath the headline to under
stand why we do what we do. 
Basically, if its a right, and its 
a principle, it must be applied 
to everybody, even those people 
who are not popular and even 
those people who are not part of 
the majority.
The ACLU was involved in 
21 cases before the Supreme 
Court last term, including is
sues such as voting rights, free
dom of religion, free speech, 
affirmative action, and the
rights of prisoners, homosexuals, 
and students.
In the Pittsburgh area, the 
ACLU recently prevented dis
crimination against special needs 
students by the Brownsville 
School District, sued to stop pub
lic school graduation prayers in 
Peters Township, secured the 
right of political protest in 
Pittsburghs parks, and chal
lenged CMUs censorship of the 
Internet.
The ACLU needs your help to
he said, ranging from intaking 
of complaints, setting up com
puter systems, doing investiga
tion on cases, writing, and stuff
ing envelopes.
At the Pittsburgh office, there 
are three employees and about a 
dozen volunteers and interns. 
One hundred lawyers in the com
munity volunteer their time to do 
cases, and, as needed, the ACLU 
can call on any of its 2000 mem
bers in Western Pennsylvania.
Walczaks passion for protectAndrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Manager 
ACLU members discuss issues at their Pittsburgh branch office
continue defending and educat
ing the public on issues affecting 
individual freedom in the United 
States.
At the local chapter of the ACLU 
in Oakland, students can volun
teer, intern, or develop an inde
pendent study program for CMU 
credit.Walczak urges students to 
call the office. The ACLU receives 
about 50 letters and calls a day. 
There are lots of things to do, 
ing the freedom of individuals 
stems from personally experienc
ing a loss of these liberties and 
witnessing the lack of rights of 
the people around him.
Walczak was born in Ystad, 
Sweden. His parents were refu
gees from Poland who had sur
vived the Holocaust and commu
nism. They emigrated to the 
United States in 1964. Walczak 
majored in philosophy at Colgate
University, and graduated in 
1983.
The following summer, he 
traveled to Poland, which was 
under martial law, and he as
sisted underground Solidarity 
activists. It was here that 
Walczak experienced the dep
rivation of civil liberties first 
hand.
Walczak said, I was beaten 
up by police. I was stripsearched upon leaving the coun
try. I spent a lot of time with 
people who had very little ma
terially, and the thing that was 
most important for them was 
to have civil liberties.
Walczak went on to work as 
an investigator for the Wash
ington D.C. public defender of
fice and then as a social worker 
with troubled youths, also in 
inner-city D.C. He said, I saw 
all of the problems with the 
criminal justice system and 
the urban poor, and I really 
just wanted to make a differ
ence. Walczak studied at Bos
ton College, where he focused 
on constitutional and environ
mental law.
In 1991, Walczak followed his 
wife Kathy to Pittsburgh and 
became Associate Director of 
the Greater Pittsburgh Chap
ter of the ACLU. One year 
later, he was named Executive 
Director. He is involved in much 
of the chapters litigation.
Walczak encourages CMU 
students to visit the ACLU and 
looks forward to talking with 
them about the organization.
wjnS'
________________________________________
Ins Student Travel idesLvg
 The Lowest 
Student, Youth & Budget Airfares
 Eurail Passes issued on the spot!
 Adventure Tours  Budget Accommodations 
 International Student,Teacher & Youth ID 
 Hostel Memberships
 Language Programs Worldwide
 Work Abroad programs & More!
Cm cae i rpoo gma .dW neihag liyikuwu'
CouncilTrawl
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
683-1881
LAUNCH INTO A
PARALLEL UNIVERSE
.14L69i .v6 n1g1II6I S4po6gr6
The universe of advanced database computing. Of massively parallel, fault tolerant on-line transaction processing. Of open accessibility. Of robust UNIX. Of the most information-hungry industries, getting the power they demand.
t1s4Tv
Get parallel with Tandem.
CS and EE Graduate & MBA Students
VISITING CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY INFORMATION SESSION: MONDAY, OCTOBER 23RD ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS: TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24TH
CHECK YOUR PLACEMENT CENTER FOR DETAILS.
For more information on our company and job opportunities, please preview our home page on the World Wide Web: http://www.tandem.com/staffing/
JZiTANDEM
Silver Eye Center for Photography and the Pitt Asian Studies Program present an exhibition through Nov. 11 at Silver Eye and Oct. 28 at Conney Kinibo
Picturing Asia America:
Communities, Culture, Diffrence
 An-My L, Untitled, 1993, gelatin silver print
Asia America Up Close
is a free public reception and forum
featuring the First person accounts of three area Asian Americans: 
Felix Fukui, Ellen Madono. and Karen Yee 
Oct. 25 reception 5-7pm, Conney Kimbo Gallery in the Pitt Student Union 
Forum immediately following in Forbes Quad 2M56.
Silver Eye: 1015 E. Carson St. on the South Side, call 431-1810 for info.
Tf&ilnssar hssmsm
At the PET Facility of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
we are conducting research studying how the brain carries out 
different functions. These include how the brain makes decisions, 
how the brain controls eye movements, and how the brain recalls 
information.
We use a new and exciting technique called Positron Emission 
Tomography, or PET for short. PET takes pictures of the brain after 
administering small amounts of radioactive drugs. These pictures 
can show how different parts of the human brain work.
PET image of brain activation 
from recalling a list of words
If youre interested in volunteering for one of these research studies, 
we want to hear from you.
Participants are paid for their time. Call our Volunteer Coordinator 
for details:
Louise Smith, RN 
The PET Facility at UPMC(412) 647-0717
Summer Opportunity for 
Computer Science and 
Related Majors!
THE DOCUMENT COMPANY 
XEROX
Global Information Management
Were on campus Wednesday, October 11 
at 7:00PM in Porter Hall 125C! Well tell 
you about Summer Opportunities in 
Information Management
And, one of our Student Interns from this 
past summer will share his experiences.
2nd & 3rd year Bachelor and 1st year 
Master Degree students are invited to 
attend. Refreshments & informal 
discussion will follow.
Internship Interviews on Campus
November 16th. ____________________
At Xerox, your ideas can change the way we communicate.
Because at Xerox, were giving shape and form to a whole new way of 
dispersing information. The ideas of our people arc stretching the limits of 
communication. Innovating systems that enhance communications and allow 
ideas to flow freely among people, machines and locations.
From local area networks and voice message exchange to high resolution 
laser imaging systems. And even machines that convert printed text into 
spoken words for the visually impaired. All of which makes business more 
Ple productive and our world more accessible.
You'll find theres always room for people of bold vision and breakthroughthinking at Xerox. Every day well put your creativity to the test, help 
develop your talents through career-long education and give you the 
satisfaction of sharing your ideas with employees around the world. 
Experience the extraordinary. Better yet, make it happen yourself. To find 
out how, come to our information session. Xerox is an equal opportunity

---------------------------------------------------

Want to know what it's like to.
...build an "Indy Car" 
data analysis system for 
Newman-Hass Racing?
Ask us.... We're Doing it!
TARNFENA
S$AE7irA5
sdyau
DvorsRv laDld bBae PdcBed riSd cc
Present your 
student I.D. 
one hour before 
game time and 
you'll set the best 
available seat in 
the buildins 
for only $15.
Go to Civic Arena 
Box OfficeGatC 6, for these 
upcomins sanies.
For information 
call... 
642-PENS
Ikohc-p.
Fictwv
Sat10/14vsAnaheim
Wed11/1vsTampa Bay
Tues11/14vsDallas
Sat11/18vsWashington
Tues 11/28 vs Ottawa
All games start at 7:30 P.M.
StudentRushat6:30 P.M.
FuW, vBae mWa.dW Mf(f
(Limit 1 Ticket Per Student  Subject to availability)
Business Opportunities Conference
ResumeCollection
Don't forget to drop 
table in front of Doh
iff 40 resumes at the 
-rty, October 9-13.
Put them in a mani 
your name and
11a envelope with 
year on it.
Come to the BOCOctober 26, 1995.
Don't miss out on your 
representatives of rep 
with job placement
The BOC is brought to you
chance to meet with 
utable companies 
opportunits.
by AIME and GCMSO.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995L5
Carnegie museums party
CARNEGIE, from page LI
to a piece displayed.
In addition to the main ex
hibits, one of which was a dis
play titled Celebrity Photo
graphs, the Warhol Museum 
offered treats like Tarot Card 
readings and snapshots for $2. 
Visitors also receives goodies 
like a key chain at the door.
Its been a interesting way 
to meet new people, said Wall. 
Or to just open new doors with
the people youre with, she 
added.
As equally captivating as the 
Museum themselves were 
many of the visitors, according 
to the people watchers of the 
evening. These people are such 
a sight. The get-ups are so cool, 
said Mahone.
Hopefully, many of the same 
people will come back, now that 
they know what its all about, 
said Osher.
If you arefiAmerican HeartAssociations!^^Fighting Heart Diseasewhat you eat,
why not cutand Stroke
back on fat?
WiSSiil
pw
Need a break from 
classes, studio, labs?
relax with Features 
call the Tartan x8-2111
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craiq in Oakland)
(Not A Lot Of Money)
LetrOMSRP Starting Under $10,500
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY. ,
MSRP BASED ON TAX. TAGS. TITLE, FREIGHT. OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE.
October 19
Cookingwith Martin Yan  Eat, drink 
and be merry with cuisine connoisseur 
Martin Yan. Yan will be making authen
tic Asian cuisine, so bring eating uten
sils and your appetite! At 7:30 pm, In 
the tent.
October 20
The Chinese Magic Revue  Hailing 
from Taiwan, this 20-member group 
entertains through acrobatic displays, 
Kung Fu, and comedy. At 7:30 pm, in 
the tent.
October 21
ANANDA: Dance of Joy  Oopalie 
Ojerlta, a premiere Indian dancer, will 
perform Odissl, an early style of 
classsical Indian dance. At 7:30 pm, 
in the tent.
For more information, contact:
Student Activities at x8-8704
festlval@andrew,cmu.edu
Women discuss alcohol in new student group
Festival information and logo courtesy of Student Activities
COTTLE GRAYBEAL 
YAW
UpalnigaihptB ytpggp JAASpihOningN Tnil ySiiBg GptYEgtB RtT UpalnigaiN
Offices in Telluride and Aspen Must be CADD literate and hold a
tpalnigaiN with projects in most major ski resorts. 5-year/graduate degree in Architecture.
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Acting Calendar Editor
Today is the best day of your 
life! read an easel as students 
entered the WestWingT.V. room 
last Monday for the first meeting 
of a new series, Women and Alco
hol  a group organized by 
Harriet Schwartz, director of Stu
dent Affairs.
The program 
is sponsored by 
Student Health 
Services, Resi
dence Life, the 
Panhellenic 
Council and the 
Womens Center 
and was devel
oped to give stu
dents an oppor
tunity to discuss 
alcohol and re
lated issues as 
they affect 
women at CMU.
I think that 
its neat that 
University is ad
dressing issues 
like this at least 
in some way, 
said Shannon
Lemrow a senior biology major. 
The first meeting was lead by 
Nancy Schmist, the health edu
cator from Chatham College.
This intial meeting focused on 
the effects of drinking on women 
on a social level.
The group began with a discus
sion on the relationship between 
the media and how women per
ceive themselves, which results
in problems such as eating disor
ders. Scmidt lead the discussion 
with an interactive approach, 
breaking students up into smaller 
groups in order to brainstorm 
why we drink, why we dont 
drink, and the consequences of 
drinking.
After each group created a list 
of responses to the topic that 
ranges from a form of escape to a
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-editor
means of self-destruction, she 
compiled the lists so the groups 
could visually take in the range 
of opinions that were introduced.
The conversation was lively 
and we were able to share our 
own experiences, said Lemrow.
Based on those responses, gen
eralizations were made regard
ing alcohol and what steps could 
be taken to be a responsible 
drinker.
Pointing out that most alcohol 
related problems stem not from 
individuals, but from peers and 
peer pressure, she stressed that 
most of the reasons we drink re
lated back to our friends.
Consequently, alcohol tends to 
change our personal relation
ships.
The group was attended by both 
men and women of the commu
nity, staff, faculty and students. 
Thus, it represented a variety of 
interests and points of view in 
relation to drinking and how it 
affects women.
Addressing these issues 
through student discussions in
stead of lectures is a great idea, 
as the participants are able to 
engage in the conversation and 
carry specific ideas away from 
the program, said Lemrow.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Co-Editor
American 
Institute of 
Architects 
Western 
Region 
Firm 
of the 
Year
egOC pgNhrg
Please send resume by 
October 30 to:
CGY Architects 
Attn: Jen Carr 
510 East Hyman Avenue 
Aspen, CO 81611
W Will make commitment 
to Project Architect 
with technical ability to coordinate 
large-scale commercial, 
detailed custom residential, 
fast-tract construction and 
high design standards.
Will provide challenging 
learning environment for 
Draftsperson/Job Captain 
working toward architectural license.
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099

---------------------------------------------------

<8 31 <8
BS. I HATE SCHOOL 
ASSIGN ME NTS / MISS 
WORMWOOD IS OUT TO . 
DESTPDS MX LIFE.'
m JUST WHEN I THOJGHT OF A LOOPHOLE. THE TEACHER. 5A\D EVERS LEAF HAS TO 8E A DlFFEPtNT KIND
I'VE BEEN VISUALIZING THECOHCEPTVAUZATICW 
PROCESS. THAT'S THE HARD PART.
IM ALMOST DONE. 1SNT IT FUN? IT'S L\KE A TREASURE HUNT/
A TREASURE HUNT?/? ARE SOU CRAZS ?P THIS IS A STUPID, BORING, TIME-WASRNG FORCED ASS\GNMENT"/  ^TUIS ISNt FUN/ r^/
WHEH UFE ^ I SAS, WHEN GWE5 SOU A UFE GWES YOJ LEMON. MAKE | A LEMON. VIIHG
aiwlwr.it un SeoCn brlAr____y< AND ADO SOME\ LEMONS OF 1 YCWR OWN.'
m?P
OJR LEAF COLLECTIONS ARENT DUE FOR A WEEK SET/ MOW COULD SOU POSS\BLS : ALMOST DONE ?/
I MAKE \T A GAME. I PRETEND ITS A CONTEST TO SEE HOW MANS LEAVES I CAN FIND EACH DAS. THAT WAS, IT'S NOT AN ASSIGNMENT. IT'S FUN/
IPUNNO...MY G 
HEAP'S BLEEPING...
MYGOP-MJHAT 
 HAPPENED? r
wen, DONT mr^/
UNTlLTHEPARAm/Iy<U N/O ./M/Y
SOMEONE RAN
USOFFTHEROAP.. 
m you OKAY? mt
LOOK, BRENNER, I 
HAVBNTGOTT/METO 1
I/HE AyO. O.yU' S?O
TU, CALL 9H, OKAY?
'~r\ LOOK, JERK-FACE, 
QtXJ IE YOUHAPNT BEEN
ON THEWRONG 
MM?' SIPEOFTHEROAP,' Twzmjimrtm
\ HAPPENEP! THIS 15-couEHi-y seRMjm, y'tmm\
YOU MISERABLE, 
COKE-APPLEP 
OU? FOOL! THIS ISN'T BERMUPA - 
IT'S FREAKJN' | 
COLORADO! I
HE5RJ6HT, 
PAP. UJE 
WEREJU5T 
HEAPEP 
FORBER-^ 
MUPA. J
BYCAR? S <-
THATMAKE5 \ S' 
NOSENSe! ) c ^
I MEAN, THAT LADY HAD 
A PRETTY BAP CUT ON HER 
HEAP. I HOPE SHE PO&NT 
LOSE TOO MUCH BLOOP...
DAMN I HATE 
LEAVING WITNESS
ES'. IT'S JU5T UN
PROFESSIONAL'
'COURSE, THE HOSPI
TAL IN ASPEN IS SUPPOSEP TO BE PRETTY 
GOOP, RJ6HT? THAT'S 
WHAT IHEARP. RJ6HT?
WHOA...WHATS 7MIS6UYSJ k STORY7 mj
THE 
JERK'S PRIVINO 
ON THE 
WRONG 
Si PE.
OH, MY GOP. 
LOOKOUT! 
IQOKOUT! j
wow...
THINK
THEf'REALLRIGHT?
1 MIGHT THEN PARLAY THE 
RECOGNITION FROM THAT IN
TO A BOOKORAMOVIE OR. 
SOMETHING. ORIMIGHT 
STATUA MAGAZINE, Y'KNOW?
ANYWAY, AFTER UJE GET 
BACK TO ASPEN, I'M PEFINTTELY GOING TO GET A 
SKXU OF NEW STUFF OFF 
THE GROUNP...
ZEKE, YOU'VE BEEN 
AWFULLY QUIET THE 
LAST FEW MILES. IS 
SOMETHING KJRON6 ?
NO,..HJELL,rrS JUST TOUGH 
UV/NG/NYOUR 
SHADOW, MAN.
REALLY?\ 
SEE,NOW, 
MIKE 
WOULD
APMTTTHATA
EARL, I'M A FUGITIVE ) 
FROM JUSTICE-IPONT 
HAVE TIME FOR THIS! ^
PAD, DO YOU THINK 
THE PARAMEDICS WILL \ 
GET THERE INTIME?
YOU KNOW, THAT \ 
MANIAC LOOKED I /AM/LIAR-VER/ 
FAMILIAR...
DILBERT  by Scott Adams
DOGBERT, CORPORATE JE.T PHOTCAROL, I THOUGHT 
I TOLD YOU TO 
PUT THE "UNITED 
WAV UPDATE rz 
BETWEEN THOSE )r 
TWO AGENDA^ *<r 
. * ITE/AS. foJ Jc
NEXT ON THE AGENDA.. 
THERE WILL BE NO 
RAISES BECAUSE. IT 
WILL BE A DIFFICULT 
YEAR..
IF YOU'D LIKE TO 
LAND SAFELY, THERE'5 
SOMETHING TVE ALWAYS
WANTED TO SEE A I---
CEO DO. I-----
asCs ARNEGI ,Rp
SUCCESS WE EXPECT 
HUGE EARNINGS AND 
INCREASED MARKET 
SHARE' ,
gl3J on SidC 
rfA/fNT JtshM3LVTHIS IS SO 
NQI FUNNY.
YOUR RESUME DOESN'T 
LIST ANY EXPERIENCE 
AS A JET PILOT, 
fAISTER DOGBERT.
HOW HARD 
COULD IT BE?
YOU COULD SPEND A LOT 
OF MONEY ON SOME 
PRETTY BOY PILOT WITH 
EXPERIENCE, OR YOU 
CAN SAVE A FEW BUCKS 
AND HAVE ttE DRIVE THE 
CORPORATE JET.
I AfA UNDER 
A LOT OF BUDGET 
PRESSURE... AND 
IfA NOT ALLOWED 
ON THE JET 
MYSELF...
THIS IS CAPTAIN 
DOGBERT WITH SOfAE 
GOOD NEWS AND 
SOfAE BAD NEWS.
THE GOOD MEWS IS 
THAT WE'LL BE. 
HITTING TOWN TEN 
MINUTES AHEAD OF 
5CHEDULE...
THE BAD NEWS 
IS WE'LL BE 
HITTING TOWN.
IT HAS A 
PILOT EJECT 
SEAT, BIGHT?
DOGBLKT, CORPORATE JET PILOTGIVE. IT TO W!\! 
IW CEO (OITH 
k h^vaPsD neA. 
VOO'RL * DOG 'iIT LOOKS LIKE THE 
PLANE'S GOING DOWN 
AND THERE'S ONLY f~ 
ONE PARACHUTE. fZZ
I'M CAPTAIN DOGBERT. 
THIS IS MY FIRST 
FLIGHT. I'LL BET YOU 
WISH YOU HADN'T CUT 
I THE CORPORATE TRAIN
ING BUDGET, j------
THAT'S /AY 
KNAPSACK.
FOR SAFETY, KEEP AN 
EYE OUT THE WINDOWIF IT LOOKS LIKE WE'RE 
GONNA HIT THE GROUND, 
TRY JUMPING UP BIGHT 
BEFORE IMPACT. J
ATTENTION,
PASSENGER

---------------------------------------------------

OENONE
PARIS HAS. COME To 
SEARCH FOR OENCHE 
IT HAS BEEH THREE 
PAYS ALREADY...
STAY BACK.
You irf 
agL5DVCM
kcdod atr 
SHE BE?
TOO BAD. fcSMa*
SHE.'S THE PRIZE
Nhl frt fhhlpt TH 
Y'ou've GOTTA -p agy 
ahelpictpf ah 'yHa agR5 
DIay SP5yHE
PEIPHOgOSA 
SON OF K.IN&J
tpNfO5 Y0UNi,E* 
HpR/wGp R, 
lscgiCDD
A TOURNAMENT
Llff (Hy'WMarr
6^oewi'j(5
'WH'i OOTME RtPuBUCA^S 
:WR0T TO WEOceu 00G 
,|&^VlRoMMErtTAU LAWS?
THE AIR STOICS.THE WATERS 
IS POLLDTeO.
OH No/ \>ANltfT* UEmN&^A<M 
OF VflUR PERiaN^uTlFS VOVe/
TH15U.MEVEB WORK/ 
I 5 (kV WE JUMP HIM/
THE PISHAee Qbioe.GAE&A6G. iS 
PILING UP.
HE LAWOSCAPE 
; MUTluATGQ.
TV > OUST WAiT AH\) > 
MW HtfpgNS^,
artwt frltt iftns 'IC55y bDe:oltu rtlt aoCPiy-A PU2Z.UE FB.M
. me fiemd\svji 
1 av^oN^ee/JM
HOW MUCH06LIER AUD Skeluer AMD DEADLIER. DOES THE WORLD HAVE To 6ET BFOe WE HAVE v. HAD EWOUGH?
bOU OUGMtA mRFs t f BTT E.OeUjHBoBfcOOO.
.HER ANC.a 
f.C dSeadm 
taN?ahm Nu,n 
Cnttady c
n gniMUv 0t ySdg 
^nt\ES...
N n rvny wpNUm 
SI n,Cc01p Fl6URf.i.'m-E LOuU 
( DlfiEST ^"3.
HAM Soto-.7*)
j dltpor kl-tw
S LlU OLU...__i L.'Ji.'J. ' 
HONOLULU
WAlf/NBT Jvjsr F
'~'V'0"FR\ES./
OtAVjoSH
KEN/ vmeke Are 
to6o\n6 |nj suu\ 
\ A RviSH7 t-"
MoTiME To rAiX.1 ThS . FATe Sf HAWAi\ HANGS 
x w THE PALA^CE/ j~
"Ell, My i.iTn. SLhih>PhKHic 
Jft'EtOD, tfDW A6WT a CR.'ME 
5pfi.CE? tev
 ip -- *. i a 'f i\V: .*7^
What" .o&i rf
n*6^C0MT'SlUEO

---------------------------------------------------

Pedsby Mike Yeh
tiKK PW'U iMiGy5airWERE HO/NG OVA cm/SE TOMORROW' LJ wv-/
I TOOK C/RE Of TUAT! 
Vt/TJM IVRKMa O/V A PROJECTTravre wow; at vf JOB EPE/VDS
O/VT IVO/MY.' J 
Cawwesti YOI/M MAVACfA that someone s/se 
WAS BETTER QiT/PPEl> 
TO PW/SH THE PROJECT
" IT IS W/m MY 
SWCERESY APOIOG/ES T//AT 0//R COMP/t.,VY CAA/ A/O /OA/&ER ATEORD YouR 
SERWCES..-
CPfEw qfrs5 Mofjvrt^o^rv?yUs n R1c
A pens ou Hu 
u.es*riDW. cifc?
1
I'M* At Mfff 
6oiNfc To jC>
Sy1k V
M A(i-ET
K/0| tfi.. I Jm&T uJAAJTtp To iCfijou) 
k0b bFc wt2UU8-yu -S a.V |\
i nomatearw 
fe fv M&DiA MbbnLl 
rh,LLie uVY1- A-u, Th 
OTfc&. cto i, ALfc 
rAfeuiLS...
f^P ..-1^056
C^owiuS A^" &.....
w yU,w gcvY AO>
Sfeu, Tne*\ 3
Tl*\g5 v/g)2,
6uT Yot\ AM4>vf Ccr\JT(to\_ 
ott^fcu,*, u^rf.MA*-t:eTS, 
Utfeiw& STITEL VUu
5TILL KJ/ ") "]
^rtEU MlUt^7
a
u)EU, lT ME 
Y0^ Ac S-IIH/. ! ^6/J
Cgs OFF OF 01U.
IN A PbKEllIDvf 
twt in<?
. .P6WT <5i?ue Ttzom pi0 /.gu-if f^C-}
I T-AofcD IT fcftcti T
tO^ 1=of2- A CoftL M/Wf,
-HT l'je /lr(2-t TTtP ir 
E^EKL S/Nce... Aw> I 
v^Awt -r& &eT uTX 
(j(VoW^Idv^ tuc 
|Ofb<tMATH>J Swffr/Z--
HmH^V IF I H^e To 
f^V^tr pv'tf-VNE Tt^*M 
THt WViM?^0^
"DolJ/J "To t> 11 (U
r
Vom. w<k*JT ~r& fcfeT 
Tueifi'poMArnoig 
9mP^lv<|(HwAv u)dH AcM AA (2-Ap) o 
rATIoM?
-fH e Fi(ttp,S 
U><TV| VCM,
...

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
The TERRORDOME may not send students home crying, but it will 
certainly provide ah evening's entertainment.
By GRETEL T. GAAL know that TERRORDOME is
Tartan Staffwriter probably unlike any haunted
house that you have ever seen. 
The last time I went to a Createdby award-winning film
haunted house, I was in junior producer Dirk Hagen and Oscarhigh school. The last time I was winning special effects designer 
scared in a haunted house, I may Robert Short, TERRORDOME 
have been in diapers. That is, boasts incredible special effects 
until I went to TERRORDOME. and even movie sets from classic 
Now, Im not talking major levHollywood thrillers like NightPhotos courtesy Civic Arena
The TERRORDOME runs through October: 7-12 pm on Fridays and Saturdays, and 7-11 pm on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays.
Hagen and Shorts experience and nothing quite on the level of a DOMEthat Civic Arena worksomething that didnt live up to
expertise are what make delicious scare. ers recently discovered this ghoulyour expectations.
TERRORDOME more than just TERRORDOME doesnt just ish dimension behind a retaining To assure satisfaction with
an uneventful walk through Halstop at these tactics which, adwall  is surely aimed toward TERRORDOME, you must be 
loween tackiness at its worst; it is mittedly, work better on some the younger generation of terror realistic: you will not be transa fascinating display ofhard work than others. There are tons of lovers, as are some of the gags ported into The Exorcist and reand talent. different rooms and scenes to and creatures within. However, ceive the thrilling fright of your
Unlike the haunted houses of encounter as you wander through rest assured that there is plenty life. You will see some verj inter
childhood which lasted for the transformed back corridors of adult fun involved, including a esting and gruesome displays, 
(maybe) 10 minutes and left visiof the Civic Arena. I never would memorabilia museum to browse ranging from death to disfiguretors feeling bored and unsatishave believed that the place after the tour, where you can see ment. Basically, I recommend this 
fied, TERRORDOME takes at where I innocently watch Penactual Hollywood props and cosforthespecial-effects enthusiasts 
least 25 minutes to walkthrough, guin games could be so intrigutumes.FromPlanetoftheApesto and horror hounds out there, or' 
and theres more than enough to ingly transformed. Then again, I Alien, there is something to infor anyone whos sick of going to 
keep you entertained. True, most never would have believed that terest even the most comedythe movies or doing nothing. I 
of the frights are the results of anyone would want to do such a minded individual. ' would also suggest going in a
classic Hollywood tactics: gruething, either. I realize that what is interestgroup, simply because its surely
somely-garbed actors jumping out Obviously, Iwas wrongtothink ingis not always affordable. Take more fun that way.
at you, seemingly-dead bodies that way and, to their credit, Pittsthis from someone who now In short, TERRORDOME is
springing to life and people blendburgh Hockey Associates and thinks a quarter is a lot of money: good, potentially messy fun. And 
ing into the shadows, just waitShop N Save have a very sueserious penny pinchers should be honest  youd probably only 
els of fright, here, but there were mare on Elm Street and The ing for the chance to whisper into cessful project in TERRORavoid TERRORDOME at all costs spend the money on a case of beer 
moments when the elements of Omen. Short won an Academy your unsuspecting ear. But, these DOME. The actors inside are very (pun intended). Even the moderanyway, and then where would
TERRORDOME caused my heart Award for his work onBeetlejuice are the same reasons we keep good and disturbingly undisate penny pincher should think you be in the morning? Although,
to race and made me (almost) and created special effects for flocking to horror movie after turbedbythejerk(s)inthegroup twice about this activity, in the thatfaceinthemirrorcouldprobscream. Beyond the whole fear other widely-know films likeE.T. horror movie; these things do (theres always at least one). The event that you will only bitch ably be the start of a TERRORfactor; however, it is essential to and Cocoon. It is clear that both frighten us, and theres really fictional story behind TERRORabout money already spent for DOME of your own.
Volume 90, Issue 6The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania9 October 1995
Pi Kappa Alpha contestant wins Mr. Fraternity
By DIANA BARTOLOTTA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Saturday night, close to 800 
people packed into the gymna
sium to Witness the 1995 Mr. 
Fraternity Contest, sponsored by
Mr. Pi Lam pierced the crowd's 
talented tongue.
Kappa Alpha Theta. They came 
for a night of fun, and they were 
not disappointed.
The contest began nine years 
ago as a memorial to Karin 
Johnson, a Theta who died of an 
acute asthma attack in 1984. 
Each year, the sorority donates 
about $3000 to the Karin Johnson 
Memorial Research Fund, which 
has been established by the Ohio 
Lung Association. The fund aids 
research and medical care for 
asthma. The money is raised 
through ticket sales and indi
vidual donations.
Months of preparation went
into this night. Anne Castle (se
nior, art major) was the Mr. Fra
ternity Chairperson. Karina 
Vitols, a junior design major, re
turned this year as operations 
chairperson. The members of the 
Kappa Alpha Theta rules com
mittee cre
ated the ques
tions for the 
interview, 
and the judg
ing panel was 
composed of 
three faculty 
members. The 
members of 
Theta and the 
contestants 
spent all day 
Saturday 
building the 
set.
The contes
tants com
peted in five 
events  
beach wear, 
toga, talent, 
formal wear, 
and inter
view. Their 30 
seconds of 
fame in each event reflected the 
various personalities of the con
testants. Each contestant chose 
what he wanted to do for each  
right down to the music that was 
played in the background.
Vitols said her favorite event 
was, The talent competition. The 
guys really like that. They can 
show their personalities, and they 
get to go crazy with it and do 
something different.
Castle said, Its the hardest 
part because they only have four 
minutes. They have to come up 
with something good and try to 
out-do each other.
attention with his
Mr. Sigma Tau Gamma, 
Munish Suri (sophomore, me
chanical engineering), also said 
that his favorite event was the 
talent competition. We get to go 
crazy, scream, break things. Im 
just that kind of person. For his 
talent, he performed his 
Gallagher impression and 
smashed several kinds of fruit on 
stage.
The only contestant who ad
mitted to being nervous was Mr. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (freshman, 
architecture), Eli Green. Ner
vous? Why, yes, I am, he said
(senior, economics), and Mr. Pi 
Kappa Alpha, Jason Caldeira (se
nior). Harris wore an ape cos
tume the entire night. His beach 
entry consisted ofthe song Rain
drops Keep Falling on 
My Head and a sign that 
read Its Pittsburgh.
Caleira biked onto the 
stage with his tricycle, 
wearing a black leather 
jacket and bright yellow 
floaties.
The best toga, in my 
opinion, was Mr. Theta 
Xi, Jason Elizaitis (jun
ior, IM-H&SS Track), in
what was in the glass before pourof the contest, 
ing it mouth to mouth into The James Brown impression 
Elizaitis, who finally swallowed performed by Mr. Phi Kap, Jason 
the milkshake ... yuck! Reisman(sophomore, mathematMr. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Eli ics), would not have been such a 
Green, brought us all back to the success without the dancing supbefore the show. He attributed 
his nervousness to the number of his disco toga. Mr. Sigma 
people that would be watching Nu, Scott Adorni (sophohim. However, he still performed 
well. For the beach wear compe
tition, he wore bikini briefs and a 
fur loin covering, and did a cart
wheel on-stage.
Mr. Beta Theta Pi, Chris 
Bamicle (sophomore, H&SS un
declared), was
more, chemical engi
neer), should get an hon
orable mention for a very 
convincing Fred Flintstone.
The talent competition 
was the most interesting part of 
the show,
Possibly the most disgusting talent ofthe evening was Mr. Theta Xi swallowing 
a human mouth shaken milkshake.
very confident 
before the 
show. About 
the winner, he 
said, I heard 
its between me 
and the guy 
from PiKA.
Apparently, 
though, he had 
no talent, since 
his fraternity 
bro-ther played 
guitar and 
sang in the tal
ent competi
tion, while 
Chris telekinetically gave 
him the knowledge to play.
My personal favorites for the 
beach wear competition were Mr. 
Alpha Epsilon Pi, Michael Harris
Jason Caldeira, Mr. Fraternity 1995, 
raises his Mr. Congeniality award.
with talents 
ranging from 
singing to 
breakdancing 
to making a 
human 
milkshake. 
Mr. Theta Xi, 
Jason Eli
zaitis made a 
milkshake 
with just the 
basic ingredi
ents and the 
mouths of four 
of his broth
ers. After hav
ing parts of 
the shake 
placed in their mouths, Elizaitiss 
helpers shook their ingredients 
before spitting them into a glass. 
Then, one ofthe helpers engulfed
1980s with some breakdanciner. 
Mr. Alpha Epsilon Pi, Michael 
Harris, brought us back to Carni
val with How Not to Build a 
Booth. Mr. Kappa Delta Rho, 
Tom Matthew (sophomore, com
puter science), performed a song 
which he wrote for English Argu
ment class last year about you 
and me and the literacy between 
us.
The most memorable talent 
was, of course, that of Mr. Pi 
Lambda Phi, Kris McClure. He 
had his tongue pierced on-stage. 
The audience kind of stared in 
disbelief as a professional piercer 
clamped McClures tongue and 
put a needle through it. Some 
turned away, some shouted, some 
just sat in awe. After the pierc
ing, McClure raised his arms in a 
sign of victory, and surprisingly 
enough, he was able to speak 
clearly for the interview section
port of his brothers.
As for genuine talent, one of 
the best performers was clearly 
Mr. Pi Kappa Alpha, Jason 
Caldeira who played acoustic and 
sang a Dave Matthews band 
song.
This year, the 1993 Mr. Frater
nity, Andrew Ortiz, crowned 
Caldeira, the 1995 Mr. Frater
nity. Mr. Delta Upsilon, Tom 
Tadlock, was first runner-up, and. 
Mr. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Eli 
Green, was second runner-up.
Its great that my work paid 
off, Caldeira said. I didnt ex
pect to win. because there were a 
lot of good guys up there. Of 
course, it doesnt matter who wins 
because its for charity.
Caldeira not only got fame and 
glory, but also a little paper crown. 
He also gets to come back next 
year and crown the 1996 Mr. Fra
ternity.
Civic Arena's spooky TERRORDOME provides light thrills

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995
Despite age, Bowie still rocks
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Remember that western in 
which the new cocky hotshot chal
lenges the quiet, reserved vet
eran to a showdown, and the re
tired veteran then blows said 
hotshot to the four winds, and 
without a word lights a handrolled cigarette and walks away?
Who: David Bowie 
What: Nathan Alder Diaries 
Label: Virgin Records
Thats what they call moxie, 
son. That veteran may as well be 
David Bowie, and The Nathan 
Adler Diaries 1. Outside is the 
smoking gun. For the last decade, 
Bowie has been hanging around 
in the background doing what 
innovators do  watching the 
current musical climate and put
ting a personal twist on it through 
guest appearances and his criti
cally acclaimed alternative noiserock band, Tin Machine.
In 1992, Bowie hooked up with 
longtime friend Brian Eno, con
sidered to be experimental alter
native musics Dr. Frankenstein. 
Together they set out to assemble 
the ideal team of musicians for a 
rather skewed musical vision.
Outside is quite possibly the 
future of high-minded pop mu
sic. Part one of an evil concept 
series based on Bowies yet un
finished diaries of a fictional artcrime detective which span from 
1977 to the last night of the mil
lennium, the songs can be taken 
on a singular basis, or as parts to 
the back-and-forth storyline. 
Reminiscent of a more diverse 
Operation: Mindcrime (Queensryche), the recording is seamless, 
with haunting soliloquies from 
the characters interspersed be
tween songs.
The music finds Bowie in, ar
guably, his perfect element, the
atrically playing the parts of the 
various characters within an in
dustrial/gothic soundscape tinged 
with pop context, atonal piano, 
and electronic sound bytes and 
effects  quite possibly what 
Bauhaus might sound like if they 
were still together.
The CD opens with the moody, 
sample-laden prelude, Leon 
Takes Us Outside, and smoothly 
segues into the anthem title track. 
On such songs as the abrasive 
Hallo Spaceboy and the intimi
dating No Control, with its lyr
ics Ill live my life on bended 
knee/1 cant control my destiny,
Photo courtesy Virgin Records. 
Bowie may be old, but hes still cool.
he is as sonically imposing as his 
current touring partners, Nine 
Inch Nails.
Throughout the album, Bowies 
vocals are the focal point. The 
first single, The Hearts Filthy 
Lesson, is a predominately elec
tronic piece and one of the catchier 
tunes in the set.
Bowies diversity begins to show 
itself on this song, his voice me
andering between spoken state
ments, sleazy tenor, and mania
cal cries.
He croons in a Sinatra/Leonard 
Cohen vein in A Small Plot of 
Land and takes a more main
stream approach on We Prick
You and I Have Not Been to 
Oxford Town.
Still, no one has ever made an 
exemplary 19-track, 75-minute 
recording, not even Pink Floyd or 
The Cure. There are certainly 
low points on Outside. The 
storyline which is hard to grasp 
without the aid of the book (the 
most outstanding piece of pack
aging art in memory, though not 
for the faint of heart) makes you 
wonder am I listening to a con
cept album or a soundtrack? 
Also, the lyric pages are for the 
most part indecipherable, 
and the CD is housed 
Vitalogy-style in the guaranteed-to-scratch card
board sleeve.
Finally, the album be
gins to flag considerably 
towards the end due to 
the extremely limp-dick 
com-merciality of the fi
nal 2 1/2 songs, but as I 
said, no one has ever made 
a tried and true 100 per
cent, 19-song album. Still, 
when compared to the big 
picture, these add up to 
minor gripes.
Bowie better at least 
get a Grammy nomina
tion for album of the year. 
Screw the lowest common 
denominator and progeni
tors of teenage angst-fest. 
David Bowie has lent an elegance 
to modem music with a damn 
intelligent release you owe your
self ... and it is only part one. 
Remember kid, moxie....
Boy George tries new music
By DAVID KORAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The latest entry from the 
former androgynous king/ 
queen of 80s synth-bubblegum-pop is a definite change 
for Boy George.
Who: Boy George 
What: Cheapless Beauty 
Label: Boy George
It still maintains much of the 
character seen in previous re
leases, echoingmuch of his later 
work in musical scope, but 
brought up a step or two by 
rockifying his lyrics and in
strumentation.
The first track, Funtime, 
sounds a bit like ELO had a 
child with Erasure, crossing the 
bounds of a heavy rock back
ground with a foreground 
synth. The track seamlessly 
transfers between the follow
ing Satans Butterfly Ball 
which moves onto an upbeat 
lyric about prostitution (oh, 
boy). Sad has many over
tones of what Boy George did 
during his stint with the Cul
ture Club, except this time, its 
turned up a notch with a ren
egade guitar.
God Dont Hold A Grudge 
proves that he may be con
cerned about old age, but the 
speed of the music would give 
any self-respecting retiree a 
heart attack trying to keep up.
The fifth song Genocide Perox
ide, is accompanied with a rather 
appropriate graphic of a blondcutie behind the rather harsh 
words that George seems to want 
to spout at all former movie-mogul-sex-symbols.
The problem so far with the 
album is that he wants to stretch 
himself out thin by speeding up. 
Through the application of rock 
beats to his pop lyrics (much of 
which is what made him so popuIT
RlCKieyU5i
COKF USIONA f>*|-
*r,A 
S/N 
NT BO/AH. A
PAINTBtrrrE* iusroVirgin Records
lar), and his socially-applicable 
lyrics. This creates a downward 
this song sounds too much like 
the other trend in the album. 
However, just as this trend be
gins, like changingthe side of the 
album, he throws a Bon Joviesque type acoustic ballad called 
If I Could Fly done in a typical 
English Moody Blues style, com
plete with backing strings sec
tion.
After this drastic stylistic turn 
in the album, the ironically titled
Same Thing in Reverse be
gins a rise along musical lines 
that harks back to much of 
what Californias Toad The 
Wet Sprocket writes but with 
rather twisted lyrics. In the 
middle section of the album, 
Boy George is attempting 
originality sprinkled with a 
rather liberal dose of imper
sonation, especially with the 
almost REM sound-alike 
Cheapness & Beauty (guess 
which song this one got its 
chorus guitar from) and fol
lowing tracks Evil Is So Civi
lized and Blindman. I guess 
one can reckon that imitation 
is the best form of flattery, and 
it kinda works here.
Following the reversal of for
tune in the middle of this al
bum, the musical styles seem 
to spiral back out in reverse, 
reverting to the driving beats 
in Your Love Is What I Am. 
And then, stop... we are shown 
the soft side with two songs 
that hark back to the days Jim 
Croce titled Unfinished Busi
ness and I Adore (weird and 
shocking in the same sense).
Perhaps Mr. ODowd has 
gone too far, since when I 
pointed out that the music my 
suitemate was hearing was in 
fact Boy George, he said, Oh, 
really?! This could be a sign 
that, for better or worse, the 
Karma Chameleon still can 
change its colors to fit the 
times. 
Child, family and adult 
counselling available, fee based 
on income. Call U.Pitt Clinical 
Psychology Center 
624-8822
iff'i '
l WH
.. 1111/llllHIt
SITBLG---?y .Uiuuuv
IMAGINE YOUR WORLD
The fact is, without Tl, cars would lose their 
drive, microwaves wouldn't zap, aircraft would 
be grounded, and the Statue of Liberty 
would be covered in rust. At the Materials & 
Controls Group, we design and manufacture 
mission critical and life supporting devices for 
aerospace, aircraft, automotive-, appliance, 
and industrial applications. But most of all. 
its our people who make the difference.
Electrical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Materials Science 
Metallurgical Engineering 
Industrial Engineering 
Chemical Engineering 
Ceramics
Tl's M & C Group is headquarterd in Attleboro, 
Massachusetts, on, 275 acres just outside of 
Providence, Rl; an hour from Cape Cod; 15 minutes 
from Great Woods; 35 minutes from Boston. 
If you desire additional information, please contact 
our Human Resources Staffing Team at 
(508) 236-3800.
Well be conducting Interviews, 
October 30th. For more 
information, contact your 
Career Center Today!
E Oisry fgynSkwigny
Materials & Controls Group, Attleboro, MA
Tl values diversity and is an equal opportunity employer.
E
C
A
R
RLMAN
Satisfaction 
Guaranteed 
Its In Our 
Warranty
Dr. Larry C. Henry
Highlights Of Our 
Warranty
1) Satisfactionguaranteed 
or your money back within 
the first 30 days.
2) If there is not a Perlman 
handy, take your glasses 
anywhere to be fixed and 
we will reimburse you for 
the changes per our 
warranty.
The management wants your experience at Perlman 
Eyecare to be the very best. So, if youre not 
completely satisfied with our service, quality orprice, 
give us a call.
Melinda Moore - Manager, 421-3020 
Dr. Larry Henry - Owner, 421-0804
Insurance
We accept Armco, NVA, Opti-Choice, 
Premier Blue, Gateway,
Security Blue and more.
------CONTACTS------
Price Includes Eye Examl
Scti Dailyv WearSoft
Call for prices on contact
packages.__________
Single Vision Lenses 
Scratch-guard Warranty 
(in most cases)_____
Glasses
Complete Pair Packages
*65 %tXO
5831 Forbes Avenue * Squirrel Hill 
421-3020
Hours: Monday, Wednesday, Friday 10:00a.m.-6:00p.m.
Tuesday and Thursday 10:00a.m.-5:00p.m.
Eye Exams By Dr. Larry C. Henry, Optometrist
I

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995Lll
New comic wastes buyers money with trite dialogue
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
You know, when I pay $4.95 for a 
single comic I expect to get my moneys 
worth. Its not that I mind spending the 
money  I loved Marvels, and Killing 
Joke is one of my favorite single stories 
of all time  its just if Im paying more 
ymoney than I would for the average 
book, I expect a higher quality book. 
Superman: At Earths End is one of the 
many Prestige Format books, thatl 
[would love if they were cheaper.
At Earths End is one of the many DC 
Elseworlds books, which I usually flip 
over. For example: Gotham by Gaslight,
Speeding Bullets. Although this isnt 
that bad of an effort, I think it would 
have been better if it were used in the 
Elseworlds annual of two years ago. 
Its a better $2.95 than $4.95book.
This book had such potentialTom 
Veitch as author (Star Wars: Dark 
Empire, The Light and Darkness War) 
and a great idea with Superman on a 
twice post-apocalyptic Earth in 2102 
fighting androids a la Blade Runner. 
From here on, it pretty much goes 
downhill.
Veitch took a great idea and pro
duced the lamest book Ive ever read 
by him. His dialogue was completely 
trite, like Supermans, Let me go, ya 
ugly slimes! I said let me go! It had to 
be divine inspiration with prose like 
that. Now, for the worst part, the char
acter names; prepare yourself for: Ben 
Boxer, Boss, DNA Diktators, and The 
Expunger.
Aaahhhhh! These arent even as bad 
as Don Simpsons Bizarre Heroes, but 
theyre supposed to be funny. Finally,
 DC Comics
Despite his universal appeal, Superman, for 
once, isn't worth the bucks.
Veitch must have been all out of won
derful names because he settles for 
making the DNA Diktators two Adolf 
Hitlers. It doesnt get any worse than 
this.
That was the good part. Newcomer 
Frank Gomez supplied the art, which 
ends up looking like a portfolio he put 
together to try to impress the Image 
guys. I think I would have preferred 
Gomez Adams doing the art. He cant 
even rip off Jim Lee - he rips off the 
stable of Lee imitators.
Image art is one tiling, but Image 
art in a DC book is a mortal sin in my 
opinion.
Im not sure if Gomez is to blame for 
this, but whoever thought these 
Biomech VUs costumes would be bet
ter with the rooster thing on top of 
their red masks should be injected 
with salmonella.
One other highlight to look for is, 
Gomezs panel on page six of Ben Boxer 
stuffing his android innards back into 
his gut. What a tasteful scene. Sorry,
theres also an appearance of the MASK. 
characters as children. If you remem
ber, William Devane from Falcon Cre^t 
said, MASK will be right back, and so 
will Venom.
Okay, the one redeeming thing about 
the book  it has a touching ending. 
Veitch also did a great job throughout. 
the whole book of characterizing 
Supermans and Batmans friendship. 
Its a shame I had to wade through 45 
pages of over-priced drek for three qual
ity ending pages.
It looks like At Earths End belongs 
with other great ideas that were poorly 
executed, like Silver Surfer / Galactus: 
The Hunger, and Hellshock. Save your 
money, because Dark Horse is bringing 
G.I. Joe back in November.
Jason Andracki is a junior professional 
writer and is now on the senior staff. Hes 
confident enough in his masculinity to 
admit he has watched soap operas like 
Falcon Crest, which, although good, 
doesnt hold a candle to Santa Barbara.
Video games lend hours of entertainment, violence too
ing than a mosquito on a hot day. 
Combine this with a bit of blood 
and some humans to occasionally 
trample on, and youve got your
self a game.
Whether it is good or not is
Friday Night DOOM
by Dizzy B. Murphy
Welcome to another install
ment of Friday Night DOOM. 
Today Ill be reviewing three 
games which we have in our ar
cades: Primal Rage, Street Fighter 
Alpha, andX-Men.
Lets start with Primal Rage. 
This game is pretty much a Ju
rassic Park goes to Hell type 
fighting game. You get a nice 
bunch of nifty dinosaurs, ranging 
from a small tyrannosaurus to a 
; velociraptor that is more annoy
IL, ^ it-^
r i ! li*h 1
IS--
Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photographer
another matter. In my opinion, 
and from what I have seen and 
played, the game follows its theme 
right down to gameplay: it plays 
like a dinosaur. Even though each 
dino has his own special move, it 
takes a lot of practice to pull it off
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
Everyone loves a good thriller, 
and its rare to see one that makes 
you scared when you go to bed 
that night. The horror movies of 
today dont really scare us.
in the heat of battle. Also, each 
fighter has a stun meter  if it 
goes tilt  you go tilt. Overall, 
the game could use better play 
control, more blood and guts, and 
easier combos. Primal Rage is 
hard to play, so think twice be
fore popping in a couple of quar
ters.
From Capcomthe people who 
build cartoons instead of fighting 
games  comes Street Fighter 
Alpha or Street Fighter the car
toon. You may call it whatever 
you wish. Anyway, the game plays 
like all the previous versions 
bringing back most characters 
like Ryu and Ken. There are some 
new fighters which bring in some 
fresh entertainment. However, 
beware of their moves. The cheap
est character in the game, Birdie, 
has a move which will take off 
two-thirds of your energy and is
impossible to avoid once started. 
Like Super Street Fighter Turbo, 
if you know the correct code, you 
may pull out a special move like a 
double Dragon Punch, knocking 
your opponent into the next game.
Overall, I would pop several 
quarters into this baby from time 
to time. You may also enjoy this
game from the sidelines. Its as 
much fun to watch as it is to play. 
A word to the wise: try to practice 
before you challenge someone
else, or else you may find yourself 
losing a lot of money really 
quickly.
Last, but never least, are theXmen. The Marvel comicbook char
acters are back in their own fight
ing game. This game is a lot of fun 
for every fighting fan. Not only do 
you get cool characters, but this 
game has a special feature not 
found in other games  the abil
ity to create your own combos. 
After a bit of playing, you may 
surprise your opponents by pull
ing moves that they have never 
seen before. As with all fighting 
games, you should practice be
fore taking on your buddies, un
less you enjoy dying in 30 sec
onds. X-Men fans will pump in 
lots of money on this machine, 
and so will a lot of Street Fighter 
fans. If you have a minute and a 
couple of quarters to spare, give
this game a try. Next time, Ill go 
back to PC games, with a game 
which has been seen stomping its 
way through Cyert Hall: Mecli-.
warrior 2\ Until then, take care, 
and beware of that Imperial Star 
Destroyer in X-Wing.
Dizzy Murphy is a senior social, 
and decision processes major. 
Aside from playing video games,, 
he also enjoys crocodile wrestling 
and long hikes through the desert.
Seven holds audience with style, charisma, from beginning to end
What: Seven 
Director: David Fincher 
Company: New Line Cinema
We know that Freddy Krueger 
is played by that guy who used to 
be on V. When I read about the 
film Seven over the summer, I 
knew it had the potential to scare 
the hell out of me, and it did.
Seven stars Brad Pitt and Mor
gan Freeman as Detectives Mills 
and Somerset who are working 
homicide in an unnamed metropoSomerset is only seven days 
away from retirement. He is a
tired, aging cop who is fed up 
with society because of the apa
thy he sees everyday. He says 
that in sexual assault training, 
women are taught to yell fire if 
they are being attacked because 
if they yell help, no one will re
spond.
Pitt plays Mills, who has only 
been a detective for five years 
and formerly lived in another un
named place. We are toldits much 
more rural than his new location. 
There is immediate tension be
tween the two cops, but one of the 
virtues of the film is that this 
tension is not the focus.
This is not a buddy picture 
where the two characters become 
Mel Gibson and Danny Glover by 
the end.
The two are following the case 
of a murderer who kills his vic
tims to the tune of the seven 
deadly sins: gluttony, greed, sloth,
 New Line Productions, Inc. 
Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman battle it out for hottest Hollywood hunk 
in Seven. In this case, the youngin may have the upper hand.
lust, pride, envy, and wrath. As lives is similar to Somersets. He 
Mills and Somerset get closer to is fed up with the apathy in socithe killer, they discover his phiety. He murders a 300 pound man 
losophy of the city in which he by feeding him until he inter
nally combusts because this man 
was apathetic enough to let him
self get this way. He let people 
mock him as he walked down the 
street and didnt do anything 
about it. Cool, huh?
From the opening credits, this 
film is original and a rarity in the 
Hollywood system of today. Brief 
flashes of images pop up on the 
screen with the credits flicker
ing, slightly out of focus and 
backgrounded by Nine Inch Nails. 
The films style is a true combina
tion play on film noir and the 
French termed Grand Guignol 
style.
The film appropriately only 
spans seven days, and every day, 
there is rain. There is barely any 
light in the film at all. When 
Somerset and Mills investigate 
any of the murder scenes, they 
usually carry flashlights or cope 
with one or two table lamps  a
fitting atmosphere for the con
tent.
The dialogue is also entertain
ing. Pitt is the young impatient 
cop with a bad mouth who is over
anxious and ready to aim and 
fire. Somerset is the rational one 
who, even though on the verge of 
retirement, wants to hang on. He 
has no family and has lived in 
this city his whole life. I credit the 
screenwriter for not making these 
characters so stereotypical that 
we can predict their every move 
or emotion. They are realisitic 
and engage in real dialogue, a 
refreshing change to the buddy 
movie mentality.
Go see Seven. Its good, its fun, 
and at least its something thats 
new.
Its playing at the Manor The
ater. Its on Murray Avenue, and 
they have a discount show at 5:30 
pm.
Get out of the cluster. 
Burn your suit. 
Get a job.
If you're a CS, ECE, or EE graduate looking 
for a challenge, sign up to interview with us 
at the Career Center and e-mail your resume 
to recruit@gordian.com.
Informational Session:
Monday, October 30 
7:00-9:00 p.m. 
Student Center, Room 210
Interviews:
Tuesday, October 31
GORDIAN
20361 Irvine Avenue, Santa Ana Heights, CA 92707-5637 
(714) 850-0205 ph, (714) 850-0533 fax 
http:/ /www.gordian.com/
Our reputation scans all corners of the world.
As an internationally recognized leader in information services and software technology, Information 
Resources, Inc. provides top companies with decision making tools to improve the businesses that impact 
our daily lives. We serve the companies that serve you. With a client base ranging from major retailers to 
the largest consumer packaged goods manufacturers, IRI continually recruits ambitious individuals with 
diverse educational backgrounds  from the finest colleges and universities in the country. For a closer 
look at opportunities in client service, software development and market research, attend our on-campus 
presentation:
Tuesday, Oct. 1 Oth 
The Student CenterDrill Deck, 7-9pm
With offices around the globe, IRI opens the door 
to a world of opportunity. If you like what you 
hear, send your resume to: Julie Forster,
College Recruiting, Information 
Resources, Inc., 150 N. Clinton 
Street, Chicago, IL 60661-1416. Oncampus interviews will be scheduled in upcoming 
months. IRI is an equal opportunity employer m/f/d/v. informationresources;;

---------------------------------------------------

Members of CMU's Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Community and their supportive friends join you in celebrating
National Coming Out Day
October 11, 1995
Alon Lavie, Ph.D.
Still Here, Still Queer
Kristina Straub
Materally Queer
y* '
w
Ca r
>V-'
Hii H1L
Anita Barkin
Health Services
Jim Kocher
Three Little Maids from 
School, Minus Two
Straight but not narrow 
Conal Ho 
See who I hang out with  no 
wonder I can't get a guy!!
Nobody Knows 
I'm a MechE
Dun' I Be Aliiikl 
Of Your Freedom
Nils Hammer Tracy Futhey
Old Grump
Addie Camp
Beloved, Regardless
Sasha Wood
Kathy Chapman, Kelly Lie, Kathy Baker, and 
Barbara Prvost
Student Affairs
'Becca Stallings 
Straight & Supportive
Camilla Griggers
Cay Lipstick Queer
Timothy Kocher-Hillers
Three Little Maids from 
School, Minus One
Lrik Gaghan Lustfully Innocent 
Natalie Wochele Open for Suggestion 
Janel Hanmer I Ioveher!
Let the revolution begin! 
William Tran MEOW!
Kristin Dunkle
Bitchin Bi Babe
Matt BishopPhoebe Sengers 
Agnostic
Totally Straight & Totally Supportive
Gay and Proud
Tim Saternow & Scott Safier
Two Heads are Better than One
cinuOUT is a recognized student organization
Hobbes
Fuzzy, Friendly Tiger
Michael WestWill ProctorGwendolyn WoodCary Lund An Lewis
Dave Eustice
Bi-petal Pansy
Marnie Unruh
Student Affairs
Tim Michaels Housing Anne Shields Career Center
Anne Witchner Campus Activities Center Tim Foster Residence Life
Laurie Dugan & 
Donna Riley
Jeff Jacobson
Research Fellow

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  9 October 1995L13
DH 2210
rii i 11 11 i i t i i
movies you may have seen before....
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, October 12
This is Spinal Tap!
This movie goes to 11. Some blokes go up to start 
low and then go up to 10, and then where do you go? 
But this movie goes to 11.
Get it?
Anyway, this is a spoof of a heavy metal band 
produced by some fat guy and starring the teacher 
from Head of the Class and Lenny from Laverne 
and Shirley. It deals with the trials and tribula
tions of being a band on the run and having midg
ets sit on your Stonehenge. Full of mirth and 
mayhem, this film is a cornucopia of music and 
armadillos in your trousers.
See this with a woman or your uncle who has hair 
on the undersides of his arms.
At 6, 8,10, and midnight, but not at 11.
Friday, October 13
Johnny Mnemonic
Starring Keeee-aaaaa-new Reeeeeeves, this 
movie deals with the trials and tribulations of 
having a computer in your head and having some 
guy follow you around trying to remove some 
information or something like that, in it. Based on 
a short story by William Neuropants Gibson, this 
movie probably should have stayed a short story. 
However, Keeeeeeeeee-aaaaaaaaa-new decided to 
do it, and boy are we all the better for it.
The plot is fairly simple. Keeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa-new, as Johnny, has stuff in his 
head. These guys want it out. They send ninjas and 
Dolph Lundgren after him and try and kill him. 
Theres the lot of it. See this with a ninja or a guy 
who smells like the word dolph sounds.
At 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Saturday, October 14
Raising Arizona
What do you get when you put Nicholas Cage and 
Holly Wow! She went to CMU! A working dramat 
that came from CMU! Hunter and a baby together 
in a movie? Hi-larity, ladies and gentlemen, hi
larity.
See, Holly cant get a bun in the oven, so Nick goes 
and steals this rich guys baby. Theres a terrible 
chase across the country and a big funny sort of 
acting from Nick who says a lot of things full of 
witty irony. Because this movie has Arizona in the 
title, it has to be funny, says Jason. See this with 
someone who wants to steal your children or 
Shannons mom, because she likes that kind of 
stuff.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, October 15
Creepshow
Written by Stephen Honey, I need more paper. 
This grocery list is already two hundred pages 
long King and directed by George I filmed in the 
basement Romero, this movie is a series of horrorific chills and spills.
There are five little shows here; one thatincludes 
some guy buried in sand arid one other one about a 
guy with roaches in his tum-tum. Featuring the 
acting talents of King and Ted Danson and Leslie 
Neilsen, this movie is fun-fun-fun till your daddy 
takes the roaches in your tum-tum away.
See it with some guy that keeps watching you 
while you type.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Assassins stifles Stallones acting
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
Just once Id like to see Sylvester 
Stallone star in a big-budget film 
where he actually has a personal
ity.
What: Assassins 
Director: Richard Donner 
Company: Warner Bros.
He played a perfect Rocky, and 
seems to be a pretty interesting 
guy in real life, but his last three 
movies (Assassins, Judge Dredd, 
The Specialist,) have not given him 
a role in which he could add some
thing more than muscle to the 
movie. Hes a pretty good actor, 
but more often than not, Holly
wood relies on his name to sell a 
movie and as a sex symbol who 
shoots people.
Assassins is produced and di
rected by Richard Donner. Some 
of his previous work includes Le
thal Weapon I, II, and III, Super
man, The Omen, and Maverick. 
Assassins stars Sylvester Stallone 
as Rath, a hitman who is paid a 
butt-load of money by someone 
whose identity is a mystery to him. 
They communicate via the internet 
(of course). Rath is haunted by the 
memory of one particular hit and 
is contemplating retirement. En
ter Miguel Bain, played by Anto
nio Banderas. Bain is one crazy 
dude and also a hitman. The prob
lem is that Bain wants to be
numro uno but this is impos
sible because Rath is the best. 
The two of them end up in a 
confrontation and it turns out 
that they are both working for 
the same anonymous person. 
Bain and Rath narrowly escape 
the confrontation and this causes
then by deciding to protect her 
from Bain. Im sure you can al
ready guess that Rath and Electra 
start to fall for each other (sur
prise!), but I actually was sur
prised that there was no love 
scene. This seems to be a stan
dard in action movies today.
1995 Warner Bros.
Rocky ...er... Rambo ... er... Tango ... that naked guy in Demolition 
Man stars in the new action thriller Assassins.
Rath to consider retiring.
Before he gets that chance, he 
gets an offer he cant refuse: $2 
million to kill a surveillance ex
pert named Electra (I didnt 
know whether to laugh hysteri
cally or scream in horror when I 
heard that name), and retrieve 
a computer disc with valuable 
information on it. Bain is also 
given the same assignment, un
beknownst to Rath. When Rath 
finds out that Bain is after her 
too, and is confronted with the 
choice of whether or not to kill 
Electra, he begins his retirement
Juiliane Moore is supposedly 
one of the hottest actresses in 
Hollywood today. Personally, I 
havent figured, out the hype. I 
dont think shes taken on a role 
yet that shows much of anything 
about her as an actress. Her role 
in Short Cuts was very revealing, 
but not of her talent. If youve 
seen it, youll understand. Her 
role as Electra isnt going to win 
her any Oscars; she doesnt have 
much more character develop
ment than Sly. In fact, the only 
character that does stand out in 
this film is Antonio Banderas as
Bain. If you read my review of' 
Desperado, or if youve seen my; 
planfile, then youll know that 
Im a big fan of his. Hes one of the 
fastest rising sex symbols of the' 
90s. Now, you might be thinking' 
that the only reason I liked him 
in this movie so much is because 
I think hes hot, but I promise 
that his sex appeal is not the> 
reason. Although, when he speaks  
in Spanish it sends chills... sorry^' 
Seriously though, he does a great 
job portraying a ruthless, highstrung, crazy-ass killer. No one 
in Hollywood can give as cold and  
menacing a stare as he can.
As for the movie itself, Iwouldnt recommend that you pay! 
six or seven bucks to see it. You 
might want to see it at the Maxi-. 
Savers, instead. Dont wait until 
it comes out on video because any 
movie thats worth watching at 
all is always better on the big 
screen.
The story is standard and the 
plot is very basic and uncompli-' 
cated. If your brain cells are work
ing at all, then the end is predict
able. Still, most action movies; 
(especially big-budget ones thatstar Sly Stallone) offer some ele
ment of entertainment in watch
ing them. Banderas is a treat to^ 
watch and some of the action se
quences are fun. If you go into' 
this movie without any expectations then you wont be disap
pointed and you might even en
joy it.Drama department finds perfect chemistry
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Satffwriter
The first thing I do when seeing 
a play that I am planning to re
view is assess the program for how 
much white space it allows me to 
scrawl notes. I sit with the pen I 
got for my high school graduation, 
place the program on my knee and 
poise myself to hastily jot down 
any line I might want to quote or 
set detail I might want to point out 
in my review.
I felt a pang of self-consciousness when Tom Stoppards The 
Real Inspector Hound (presented 
by the Drama Department in the 
Studio Theatre last weekend) 
opened the same way  with two 
pompous British theatre critics sit
ting in a box with their pens and 
programs out, ready to jot down 
their holy critiques. The play shows 
us these two critics, Moon and 
Birdboot (D. Garrett Howe and 
Cody Nickell, respectively) as they 
watch and criticize a wonderfully 
clichd whodunit on the stage beforethem, also entitled The Real brilliant, self-reflexive mockery 
Inspector Hound and performed of the typical British whodunit, 
by the Baskerville Repertory in which every melodramatic
Theatre. In that sense, we are 
actually seeing two plays: the 
play-within-a-play and the dia
logue between Moon and 
Birdboot, or so 
we are led to be
lieve. As the real 
play unfolds, we 
realize that 
these two appar
ently separate 
situations are, in 
fact, part of one 
larger whodunit 
that is every bit 
as surprising 
and clever as 
anything we
character has motive and oppor
tunity and one fantastic genius of 
a detective (in this case, Inspec
tor Hound himself, smoothly
Jaroslav Delapedraja/Tartan Photographer 
The drama department scored a winner this time.
would expect from the pen of played by Fred Koehler) who is
Tom Stoppard, author of 
Rozencrantz and Guildenstern 
are Dead and Arcadia, among 
others.
The play (that is, the one 
Moon and Birdboot have come 
to the theatre to review) is a
brought in to figure out who the 
killer is. While watching, our two 
smug critics speculate about the 
culprit, in between drawing up 
their verbose and haughty re
views before the play is even 
finished. An apparently vindic
tive Stoppard then plays a cruel; 
trick on them by gradually push-, 
ing them into the action of the-! 
play, ultimately making theii\ 
concern for finding the killer as'; 
serious and deep-rooted as that ! 
of the stock characters around! 
them. Its a surprising and hilari-j! 
ous reversal, something any of us1! 
who have ever been involved in! 
theater have, at one time or an-! 
other, wanted to see happen, (Bite! 
my tongue.)
Director Jeffrey Lee Pressman ! 
has taken a complex and intri-! 
cate playone that might easily! 
have been botchedand allowed-! 
it to flow perfectly. The actors! 
pushed the comedy to its greatest ! 
extent, but never went over the! 
top. As in any well done piece of! 
theatre, everyone involved served;! 
the interests of the play  a play 
which is, in one sense, a dramatic  
criticism of Dramatic Criticism! 
(the drivel youre currently read
ing). The Real Inspector Houndmocked me from start to finish,; 
and I loved every second of it. 
Comic spin-offs make questionable films
File 13
by Carey Clevenger
Ever since the 1930s, when 
someone realized how much cash 
there was in it, Hollywood has 
been making movies based on 
comic book superheroes. In the 
past year alone, weve seen The 
Crow, Tank Girl, Batman Forever, 
Judge Dredd... am I missing ny? 
Probably. Well, anyway, you get 
the idea.
Given the number of turkeys 
Hollywood puts out any given year, 
and the number of comic bookinfluenced movies Hollywood puts 
out in any given year, youre bound 
to see an overlap. Lets face it; 
some comic book superheroes 
werent meant for the big screen.
D.C. Comics
Take a look at the Superman 
series. The first two were pretty 
good films in and of themselves, 
and they remained fairly honest 
to the original storyline. Sure, they 
changed some stuff, but thats po
etic license. The third movie 
started asking a little bit more of 
us; like believing that Richard 
Pryor was a computer hacker, and 
a fitting villain for Superman.
Then they decided to make 
Superman TV: The Quest For 
Peace. This was a real stretch 
for the Super-movie folks. Basi
cally, the entire premise was 
suggested to them by a pre-teen 
fan of the films, who wrote them 
a letter. And just what is this 
premise? Superman, always 
willing to save mankind from 
itself, decides it would be a neat 
idea to get rid of all of mankinds 
nuclear weapons and throw 
them into the sun. Believe it or 
not, this is when the trouble 
starts.
Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman), 
aided by his Valley Guy nephew 
Lenny (played by Jon Cryer), 
cooks up a crazy scheme to de
stroy Superman by creating a 
genetic clone of the Man of Steel 
himself. He steals some SuperDNA from a museum exhibit, 
and tosses it into one of the illfated nukes, with a piece of fab
ric (for his costume). Superman 
tosses it into the sun, and presto! 
Nuclearman is born! Hes basi
cally a blonde Super-type that 
talks like Gene Hackman: and 
he gets his power from the sun. 
What more could you ask? A 
cheesy moral? Stupid dialogue? 
Jon Cryer breakdancing? You 
got it! Rent it before you realize 
how pathetic it really is.
Marvel Comics
Unfortunately, the folks at 
Marvel just cant win in the film
category. While they may be the 
publishers of some of the best
selling comic titles, they have yet 
to make a decent film version of 
one of their titles. Arguably the 
most tolerable to date was The 
Punisher, starring Dolph 
Lundgren as the vigilante cop; 
however, many fans of the comic 
disagree. Captain America, how
ever, has my vote for biggest 
Marvel disgrace.
Aside from the fact that J.D. 
Salingers grandson or nephew 
or whatever is in the title role, 
this movie is almost completely 
forgettable. The most entertain
ing part of the whole 90-minute 
movie is about 15 minutes in, 
when he first meets his nemesis, 
the Red Skull.
The makeup is really nifty; 
unfortunately, they ran out of 
money, so this part lasts less than 
five minutes before he has plas
tic surgery. Too bad they ran out 
of money before they could re
work the script, too. You also get 
to see just how silly the Captain 
America outfit looks when its not 
in a comic book.
Unfortunately, they decided not 
to release the Fantastic Four 
movie that they made. They said 
it was too bad to release, so theyre 
going to redo it. I think thats a 
scary thing to say, especially af
ter Captain America. .
Other Comic Publishers
Well, I have to admit I shelled
out my $5.50 and went to see; 
Judge Dredd. So for those of you 
who havent seen it, here are some 
great things about it:
1) You get to see Sly Stallone; 
shoot a lot of people, some of whom 
are fellow law enforcement per
sonnel!
2) Rob Schneider makes stu
pid, smart-ass comments through! 
the entire movie!
3) Rob Schneider is almost; 
killed a few times!
4) Theres a really cool robot! 
thing that shoots up people and!, 
has a bad temper!
5) Slys gun and motorcycle have 
better dialogue than he does!
6) Its only 90 minutes long! ;
7) Edge of your seat suspense;.; 
itll keep you guessing, When is! 
the plot going to become interest-! 
ing?
8) Probably the next chance! 
youll have to see it will be in DH! 
2210, where it will cost you less! 
than one fifth of what it cost me!!.
Well, that about wraps up thisi 
edition. Of course, with the rate' 
Hollywood whips out these win
ners, I may be returning to this! 
subject in the near future.
Carey Clevenger is a senior cre
ative writing major. He has no . 
super powers that he has yet dis-'. 
covered, but hes keeping a look-1 
out for any signs of mutant abil-t 
ity. If you have any super powers' 
youd like to get rid of, contact 
him with details.

---------------------------------------------------

This Is Spinal Tap will play in DH 221 Oon 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Johnny Mnemonic will take place in DH 
2210 on Friday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Raising Arizona will show in DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Creepshow will play in DH 2210 on Sunday 
at 5, 7:30,10 pm and 12:30 am.
Art
The Carnegie Museum of Art and Natural 
History will host the 12th annual Carnegie 
on Tap, an evening of fun held in the citys 
most stylish location on Oct. 20 from 6-11 pm 
for adults 21 years and older. Tickets are $20 
before Oct. 20, and $22.50 thereafter.
The Andy Warhol Museum presents the 
exhibition Celebrity Photographs from October 
until March. For more information, call 622- 
3316.
Painting, sculpture, and film and video 
installations by 36 artists from 16 countries 
will be on view at the Carnegie Museum of Art, 
November 5 through February 18. For more 
information call 622-6509.
The Hewlett Gallery and the International 
Festival presentWesi meets East by American 
artist and Carnegie Mellon graduate Allan 
West, Oct. 2-26. The opening reception will 
take place this Thursday from 5-7 p.m. Call 
268-3877.
The Womens Committee of the Carnegie 
Museum of Art dedicates its annual decora
tive arts symposium to the preservation of the 
historic house, particularly in England, 
America, and in Italy. The symposium takes 
place in the Museum of Art on Oct. 23 from 
9:30 am to 2:30 pm. For more information, call 
622-5558.
The Heinz Architectural Center brings 
together Monolithic Architecture, nine architec
tural projects in a provocative exhibition. The 
show runs from Oct. 1 to Feb. 11 at The 
Carnegie Museum of Art. Contact Lisa 
Kirchner at 622-3316.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts will exhibit recent allegorical paintings of Odd 
Nerdrum from Oct. 13-Dec. 31 For more infor
mation call 361-0873.
The Forbes Gallery is proud to bring you a 
new season of art from the CMU community. 
Located at 5200 Forbes Ave., we invite you to 
join us for Tuesday opening receptions or visit 
us during regular hours. Come see our second 
show of the year, Human Forms, which will run 
from Oct. 3-15. For more information, call 268- 
2081.
Thr AnHjr W;iT'Vinl Museum hnst.fi Arena 
where would I have got if I had been intelligent!, 
from Oct. 11 to Feb. 25. The show exhibits work 
by German artist Joseph Beuys, featuring 264 
photographs encased in 100 aluminum frames 
and three panels of handmade glass. For more 
information, call 622-6509.
Pittsburgh Magazine is looking for editorial 
interns. Send cover letters, resumes, and/or 
writing portfolios to: Georgia Bouzos, Pitts
burgh Magazine, 4802 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh 
PA 15213, or call: 622-6424.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Selection of the artists will be made 
through slide presentation, studio visits and 
slide/video/audio presentation for kinetic and 
installation work. Deadline for submissions is 
November 20,1995. Please send a resume and 
a maximum of 16 slides or no more than ten 
minutes of video tape to: 1996 Biennial, Pitts
burgh Center for the Arts, Pittsburgh, PA 
15232.
The Connelly Technical Institute and
Adult Education Center is looking for volun
teers to tutor reading and/or math to adult 
students. Time and place will meet your 
schedule. Free training and materials are 
provided. Contact 338-3711.
Can-Some Ransom will take place Saturday, 
Oct. 28. from 4-11 pm at the Zeta Psi Sigma 
House. Volunteer a member of your favorite 
fraternity, sorority, organization, team or 
residence area to get chained up for charity.
Call Racchel Noack at x2-2608.
St. Francis offers reduced Mammography 
screens through October. The cost is $60. To 
make an appointment at one of four locations, 
call 6247166 bwtween 9 and 4:30 pm.
The Pittsburgh Energy Technology Center
sponsors the U.S. Department of Energy 
University Coal Research Internship Program. 
Applicants must have completed the junior 
year and have a GPA of 3.0. For an application 
contact Angie Palmer, University Coal Re
search Internship Program, Science/Research 
Division, Oak Ridge Division, Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
37831-0117, or call (423) 576-2494. Deadline is 
Feb. 15,1996.
Pittsburgh Friends of Tibet presents Tibet 
Awareness Week beginning Oct. 16 through 
Oct. 22, offering a number of events that 
support Tibetans plight for their homeland.
For more information, call Vicki Stokes at 373- 
1826.
If youre serious about a performing 
career, you should begin at the place where 
the best in the business began Opryland 
Productions Inc. Auditions Tour 1996 begins 
Oct. 9 and runs throug Nov. 17. For more 
information or to schedule an audition call 1 
800-947-8243.
The Chinda Institute International for
Mind/Body Development will hold an Aikido 
Demonstration this Saturday from 4-6 pm with 
Sensei Andrew Semko. Aikido is based on 
movement in harmony with your life energy. 
For more information, call 821-1873.
Writers in the Kitchen, a series of poetry 
and prose bv well known writers, will be held Tuesdays, Oct. 17 and 24 at 7:30 pm at the 
Rainbow Kitchen in Homestead. The series 
benefits the lunch and pantry programs, which 
provide supplemental foods to needy area 
families. Donations at door are $5. Call 464- 
1892.
The Boyd Campus Theatre presents The 
Holdup by Marsha Norman, running Oct. 19- 
21 and 26-28 at 8 pm. General admission $7. 
Call 325-6743.
The Flying Pig Theatre presents Tipton,
which opens this Thursday and runs through 
Oct. 29th at Victoria Hall in Bloomfield. 
Performances are Thursday and Friday nights 
at 8 pm and on Sundays at 2 pm. All tickets are 
$10. In addition to the show, audience mem
bers are invited to sample culinary delights 
offered by Victoria Halls master chef Tim 
Swecker. Call 363-3433 or l-800-N THE MUD 
for meal prices and reservations.
Flying Pig Theatre is pleased to offer 
Directors Forum, a free series following 
Sunday performances of Tipton, beginning this 
Sunday, Oct. 15. Dont miss an opportunity to 
meet the actors and discuss many of the issues 
raised in the play with guest appearances by 
the playwright and members of the technical 
staff. Call 363-3422.
Join the University of Pittsburghs De
partment of Theatre Arts in its Caryl 
Churchill production of Top Girls. The show 
will run frim Oct. 12-15 and from Oct. 17-22, at 
8 pm on Tuesday through Saturday and at 2 
pm on Sunday. Tickets are $10 general admis
sion and $6 rush tickets are available 30 
minutes before the show for students and 
senior citizens. For more information call 624- 
PLAY.
 Music
WQED joins the Pittsburgh Symphony in
kicking off the 1995-96 centennial season on 
Friday with a national live broad cast from the 
newly-renovated Heinz Hall. Please tune in to 
WQED FM 89.3 on Friday from 8 -11 pm.
The Cocktails, a hip lounge-jazz ensemble 
from Chicago, return to town on Tuesday, Oct.
10 to play an all-ages, 9 pm show at Lucianos 
Cafe . The opening band is Vehicle Flips, and 
admission is $6. For more information, call 
281-6877.
God Is My Co-Pilot, a gay-positive jazz-punk 
band from New York City, plays an over 21, 9 
pm show on Wednesday, Oct. 11 at Cloud 9, 
located at 19th and Smallman inthe Strip 
District. Opening are Sugarsmack and Swob. 
Ttickets are $5. For more information, call 
281-8277.
The Mommyheads, an indie-pop band from 
San Francisco play an all-ages 9 pm show at 
Lucianos Cafe on Friday, Oct. 13, with openers 
Smoking Pets and Liontamer. Admission is $5. 
281-6877.
The Heinz Chapel Choir will play this 
Sunday in the Heinz Chapel at 3 pm. The 
concert is free. For more information, call 624- 
4126.
The Bach Choir has evolved from a group of 
Bach admirers into a grand concert choir, 
performing major choral works from the 
Renaissance to the 20th century. The next 
concert is set for Oct. 28 at 8 pm at the Church 
of Ascension, located at the comer of Ellsworth 
and Neville. For more information, call 327- 
4756.
Pittsburgh Area Pax Christi, a local affiliat* 
of the international Catholic Peace Organiza
tion, sponsors a liturgy on the first Saturday 
evening of each month. Mass will follow at 
Duquesne Univ. Towers in the campus Ministry 
Lounge, 1345 Vickroy St. Call 782-0801 or 363. 
0914.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh hold the 
five daily prayers and study circle every Friday 
after Maghrib prayer. Friday prayers are at 1 
pm. Call 682-5555 for more information.Spoit
CMU football will play Washington University 
this Saturday in Gesling Stadium at 2 pm.
CMU hosts Wittenburg College as they 
compete against womens soccer this Sunday at 
1 pm.
Womens soccer will play Seton Hill this 
Tuesday at 4 pm.
Mens Soccer will play Bethany College in 
Gesling Stadium this Wednesday at 7:30 pm.
Mens Soccer travels to Washington and 
Jefferson College this Saturday to play an away 
game beginning at noon.
Men and Womens Cross Country will race t 
Grove City College this Saturday at 4 pm.
Womens Volleyball will compete in the 
LaRoche College Tournament this Saturday atS 
am.
The American Indian Gathering will be 
held on Oct. 14th and 15th at the Community
College of Beaver County Dome in Monaca, Pa. 
The festivities will be from 10am10 pm on 
Saturday and from 11 am-11 pm on Sunday. 
For more information, call 774-0998.
The YWCA of Greater Pittsburgh will be 
holding its third annual Womens Survival 
Series at its facility located 305 Wood Street. 
Every Tuesday in October, 12:10 pm-12:55 
p.m. in Conference Room C on the 4th floor. 
CaU 391-5100 xl416.
A Balanced Life: Managing Your Time 
When You Dont Have a Moment to Spare, 
is the title of the second GSSS. Dean of H&SS 
Peter Stearns, and Dennis Ciplickas, Ph.d 
candidate of ECE are the featured speakers. 
The lunch will be held this Thursday, from 
noon to 1:30 pm in the Student Center, Room 
207. Contact Kathleen Minadeo Johnson at 
kj26 or call 862-7970 with your name, depart
ment, email address and preference for a 
vegetarian meal.
The Carnegie Mellons Women Association 
welcomes the new school year with a Back To 
School Party on Oct. 20. The party is open to all 
universtiy women and will take place in the 
Rachel Walton Mellon Room, GSIA. There will 
be music by bagpipe professor Jim McIntosh 
and harpist Gretchen Theimecke, plus food by 
The Fluted Mushroom and a doorprize will be a 
handmade oriental carpet. Call 468-5334.
Raising Arizona will be shown In Doherty Hail 2210 this Saturday.
VinI always knew you were a 
white boy at heart.
-Shan
Congratulations Jason
We dont mind if youre 
old.
-PiKa
To my friendsFe Pepe Re.
-Meghan
Pixie dust at 5 am sucks.
SimoneAbdul lives!
-Shan
oxp
SandyLEAVE! Well miss you.
-Friends
Heinlein is a big fat dork.
Shoaib sucks.
Man Zulr/ Tartan Art Sts^
ice o
