PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Show school spirit at last home football game  A6
FORUM
CMU, Disney join to create 3-D printed optics  A4
SCITECH
Student actors shine in Into the Woods  B5
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 29, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 9
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor 
NOL UM  
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon students 
may see an increase in their 
activities fee in the near future. On Thursday, Student 
Body Vice President for Finance Jon Mark announced 
via email that he is proposing 
a $24 increase in the semesterly student activities fee that 
would go into effect at the beginning of the next academic 
year.
Mark, a senior lighting 
design major, will bring the 
matter up for a special election on Nov. 8. If the student 
body votes in favor of the increase, Mark will recommend 
to the Carnegie Mellon Board 
of Trustees, which sets the student activities fee, that the fee 
be raised.
The proposed fee increase 
would affect all Carnegie Mellon students, undergraduate 
and graduate. The fee would 
increase from $97 per semester to $121, a 25 percent increase. However, the election 
is a split referendum, meaning 
that the votes of graduate students and those of undergraduate students are counted separately. In addition, both Mark 
and Student Body President 
Will Weiner said they intend 
to recommend raising the fee 
only for students on the Pittsburgh campus; until now, 
students in Qatar have always 
had to pay the same fee.
The desire is to have the 
will of the students be represented to the Board of Trustees and hope that theres not 
a bureaucratic problem, said 
Dean of Student Affairs Gina 
Casalegno. Does it create 
some technology problems 
in terms of from a systems 
standpoint and implementation from the registrars of?ce, etc.? Certainly its easier 
BRENT HEARD 
Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon students 
voting on campus Nov. 6 will 
have the opportunity to cast 
their ballots in two local political races: one for a House 
of Representatives member 
and one for a Pennsylvania 
Senate seat.
The following breakdowns 
are intended to provide a basic outline for the two main 
candidates running for these 
positions so students voting 
will be able to make an informed decision. 
The incumbent candidates 
and their challengers are described below, with an outline of their basic experience, 
campaign focus, and stances 
on key issues.
House
Students will be able to 
vote for the representative 
for Pennsylvanias 14th district. The two challengers vying for a spot in the House of 
Representatives this year are 
incumbent Democrat Mike 
Doyle and Republican Hans 
Lessmann.
A ninth-term congressman, Doyle is a graduate of 
Pennsylvania State University 
with a bachelors in community development. Doyle previously served as the Chief of 
Staff for state Senator Frank 
Pecora.
Doyles campaign is 
framed around high-tech development for the Western 
Pennsylvania region.
According to Doyles website, Congressman Doyle has 
been working aggressively on 
the Energy and Commerce 
Committee to reduce U.S. 
dependence on foreign oil 
supplies through the development of new, more energy-ef?cient technology and 
alternative and renewable 
sources of energy. He is also 
actively involved in efforts to 
draft energy policies that will 
halt global warming without 
destroying or outsourcing 
American jobs.
Doyle currently serves on 
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and is a 
member of the subcommittee on Communications and 
Technology, as well as the 
Energy and Power subcommittee.
Doyle has a voting record 
against the Iraq war, is consistent with pro-choice views, 
and is in support of President 
Barack Obamas economic 
stimulus efforts.
Challenger Lessmanns 
campaign is focused on job 
creation in Western Pennsylvania, and promises to 
achieve this through a decrease in taxation and government interference in business 
operations.
Lessmanns website opens 
with the declaration, The 
people deserve competition, 
and states, The Steel City 
has been left behind under 
the uncontested rein of Mike 
Doyle. While the rest of the 
country has grown, we have 
stagnated or declined. As the 
most livable city, we have 
much untapped potential, yet 
Mike Doyles leadership has 
failed. We should be attracting people, tourism, nonprofits, research, businesses, and 
corporations. Our children 
should not leave home for 
jobs.
SBVPF proposes student activities fee increase
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor and Alan Vangpat/Senior Artist
This graph shows the difference between the revenue that various organizations requested they be required to raise for themselves, the revenue that JFC recommended they raise, and the 
actual revenue raised in ?scal year 2012. 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Junior Staffwriter
Students gathered for 
a student panel discussion 
to address diversity within 
the ?elds of science, technology, engineering, and 
math  (STEM) as part of A 
Celebration of Diversity in 
STEM last Wednesday.
The panel was held in 
the Gates Hillman Complex 
and was hosted by organizations including Women@
SCS, the Society of Women 
Engineers, the National 
Society of Black Engineers, 
and the Society of Hispanic 
Professional Engineers.
Panelists responded to 
questions from the audience about their experiences as minorities in their 
respective STEM ?elds. 
The panel featured four 
Carnegie Mellon students: 
Ph.D. candidate in chemical 
engineering Sharon M. Vuong, Ph.D. candidate in human-computer interaction 
Tawanna Dillahunt, senior 
computer science and math 
double major Adrian Trejo 
Nuez, and Ph.D. candidate 
in information systems Edward McFowland III.
Because the speakers 
were involved in outreach 
programs intended to give 
young minority students 
more opportunities, the 
panelists focused on the 
power of education on minorities.
McFowland volunteers 
for a program called Pittsburgh Science and Technology, which allows middle  
and high school students to 
participate in lessons in science and technology ?elds.
I think young black men 
face a lot of challenges....
The problems that resonate 
with me are the problems 
of young black men, and I 
think that, unfortunately, 
educated black men are an 
endangered species, he 
said. I want to be an example, as well as provide a 
haven for exploring these 
things.
Vuong talked about her 
experience teaching at the 
Carnegie Mellon Institute 
for Talented Elementary 
and Secondary Students, CMITES. She elaborated on 
the stereotypes that pressure young girls into avoiding engineering.
Theres a slight stigma 
to being really girly, and 
some of them like being 
girly, and dont really identify with engineering at all, 
she said.
Vuong cited her own experience; when she applied 
to college, she originally 
intended to study professional ballet, but ultimately 
chose to become a chemical 
engineer.
All of the panelists admitted to noticing a lack of 
minority teachers and professors throughout their 
high school and college careers.
Dillahunt said that having a minority professor by 
itself encourages students 
to stay in school.
Trejo Nuez said, For 
kids growing up that makes 
a difference too; they think 
well, maybe I cant be an 
educator, even though 
theyd be good at it, but seeing someone in that role, 
that could change it. As a 
Minority 
students 
discuss 
diversity
Congressional races heat up
JENNIFER COLOMA 
Operations Manager
Writer Melinda Hemmelgarn gave a talk at Carnegie 
Mellon on Wednesday as part 
of Campus Sustainability and 
Food Day. The talk focused 
on the choices that consumers make with regards to 
their food.
Carmegie Mellons Campus Sustainability and Food 
Day celebrated sustainability and the movement towards 
more healthy, affordable and 
sustainable food,  according 
to a university press release.
Hemmelgarns talk was 
the main event of Food Day. 
According to Hemmelgarn, 
consumers should not only 
think of the ?nal form of the 
food they eat, but also where 
it came from, how it was 
made, and at what cost it was 
produced.
Sarah Kuethe, sophomore 
political science and sociology double major at the University of Pittsburgh, said the 
talk related to students since 
they have unique food concerns. 
As students, we dont 
have many choices with 
food, Kuethe said.
Hemmelgarn addressed 
several aspects of food consumption, production, and 
marketing: water, chemicals, 
label lingo, autism, environment, policy, food safety, 
farmers, and healthcare. One 
of the main lessons of her talk 
was what makes food good. 
Hemmelgarn said good 
food is tasty, environmentally 
CMU celebrates sustainable food
Photos courtesy of a?cio and Fighting For Our Health via Flickr
Above: Senator Bob Casey (D-Pa.), right, marches in the Labor Day parade with national AFL-CIO secretary Richard Trumka, left, and United 
Steel Workers president Leo Gerard, center. Below: Representative 
Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) supports high-tech development.
Courtesy of Paula Martin
Writer Melinda Hemmelgern (right) spoke on Wednesday about sustainability and healthy choices in food consumption.
See FUNDNG, A3
See DIVERSITY, A3
See FOOD, A3
See CANDIDATES, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 29, 2012
Eliot Cohen
Monday at 4:30 p.m. 
Wean 5421
Eliot Cohen, a professor of 
international studies at Johns 
Hopkins University, will deliver a talk titled Does Grand 
Strategy Exist? Cohens talk 
is part of the Center for International Relations and Politics Policy Forum.
In addition to a distinguished career in academia, 
Cohen has served on the 
policy planning staff of the 
of?ce of the U.S. Secretary of 
Defense and as a counselor 
to the U.S. Department of 
State. He has also been commissioned in the U.S. Army 
Reserve. Cohen is the author 
of several books on foreign 
policy, including the awardwinning 2002 Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, 
and Leadership in Wartime.
Tony Fry
Monday at 5 p.m. 
Margaret Morrison A14
Designer Tony Fry will 
speak as part of the School 
of Designs Design the Future lecture series. Fry is 
the founding director of the 
EcoDesign Foundation and 
is a contributing editor of 
Design Philosophy Papers. He 
currently holds a professorship at Grif?th University and 
has authored nine books and 
hundreds of essays and articles about design.
Charles Atlas
Tuesday at 5 p.m. 
Kresge Theatre, 
College of Fine Arts
Filmmaker Charles Atlas will speak as part of the 
School of Art Fall Lecture Series. His work includes media 
and dance combinations, video installations, documentaries, television video art, and 
live electronic performances. 
Atlas is the recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, three 
New York Dance and Performance Awards, and the Foundation for Contemporary 
Arts John Cage Award.
Kurt Mehlhorn
Wednesday at noon 
Gates Hillman Complex 
6115
Kurt Mehlhorn, a Saarland University computer 
science professor, will deliver a lecture titled Certifying Computations Towards 
a Dependable Algorithmic 
Substrate. Mehlhorn will 
discuss algorithms that solve 
complex combinatoric problems and the dif?culties in 
determining whether such 
algorithms are reliable.
Mehlhorn is the director 
of the Max Planck Institute 
for Informatics. He has authored six books and about 
200 papers and articles. 
Mehlhorn is the recipient of 
the Leibniz Award and is an 
Associate for Computing Machinery Fellow.
Paul R. Fonteyne
Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. 
Mellon Auditorium
Paul R. Fonteyne will 
speak as part of the Tepper 
School of Business W.L. Mellon Speaker Series. Fonteyne 
is the U.S. country managing 
director, president, and CEO 
of Boehringer Ingelheim USA 
Corporation. The Boehringer 
Ingelheim group is one of the 
worlds 20 leading pharmaceutical companies. Prior to 
being named president and 
CEO, Fonteyne served as corporate senior vice president 
at Boehringer Ingelheim.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Corrections & Clari?cations
The Stick Cats comic in the previous issue (Comics, 
Oct. 15) was #7, not #6. 
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Lecture Preview
Carnegie Mellons department of electrical and computer engineering has partnered with the University of 
Portos business school to offer a new dual-degree graduate program in business and 
engineering.
The program spans two 
years, allowing participating 
students to study for one year 
at the University of Porto in 
Porto, Portugal and one year 
at Carnegie Mellon. Students 
in the program will graduate 
with a master of science in 
electrical and computer engineering and a master of business administration.
Ed Schlesinger, Carnegie 
Mellons electrical and computer engineering department head, said in a university press release, We have our 
?rst students enrolled in the 
new program, and we expect 
the initiative to grow as more 
companies globally seek the 
problem-solving, managerial, and technical skills acquired through engineering 
and business studies provided by this double M.S./MBA 
experience. 
This new program builds 
on the long-standing relationship developed with the 
successful [Information and 
Communication Technology 
Institute], in which Carnegie 
Mellon has partnered with 
a number of leading Portuguese universities, he said.
Compiled by
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Krzysztof Matyjaszewski,  
a Carnegie Mellon natural 
sciences professor, and Christopher Bettinger, a materials science and engineering 
and biomedical engineering 
professor, have received a 
$1.6 million grant from the 
U.S. Army to research prosthetics. The researchers are 
working with robotic limbs 
that respond to signals from 
patients brains. They hope 
to develop materials that respond better and last longer.
The tissue constructs 
are designed to make stable, 
long-term connections between nerves in the peripheral nervous system by mimicking the native tissue areas, 
Bettinger said in a university 
press release.
New techniques in polymer chemistry have allowed 
us to make smarter, more durable materials. We have been 
able to create materials with 
great potential in a variety of 
applications. Its exciting to 
see if we can make something 
that will help those who wear 
prostheses, said Matyjaszewski in the press release.
Bettinger and Matyjaszewski hope that their work 
will help American soldiers 
returning from war with amputated limbs.
Bettinger added in the 
press release, It is imperative that we develop pioneering tools and devices to better 
help our wounded warriors 
recover from such traumatic 
injuries.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Professors given Army grant for new prosthetics research
FEATURE PHOTOPittsburgh prepares for Frankenstorm
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
46 / 45
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
46 / 42
THURSDAY
High / Low
45 / 42
FRIDAY
High / Low
48 / 39
SATURDAY
High / Low
54 / 41
Individuals on UC Roof
Oct. 20, 2012
University Police responded to the University Center for 
a report of individuals spitting 
off the roof. Of?cers located 
multiple individuals who 
denied spitting off the roof. 
The students were cited using 
Carnegie Mellon internal discipline citations for accessing 
the University Center roof.
Theft in Progress
Oct. 22. 2012
University Police were 
summoned to the Hill dorms 
and Margaret Morrison Street 
for a report of two males stealing furniture from the Hamerschlag dorm. Of?cers were 
unable to locate the perpetrators, but they recovered a 
stolen bean bag chair, which 
was placed back into Hamerschlag. Of?cers took statements from two bystanders; 
however, police do not have 
any suspects at this time.
De?ant Trespass
Oct. 22, 2012
An 18-year-old male Carnegie Mellon nonaf?liate was 
arrested for de?ant trespass. 
The male was given multiple 
verbal warnings by police that 
he is prohibited on any Carnegie Mellon property. University Police received information that the male was staying 
in Morewood Gardens with 
a Carnegie Mellon student. 
Further investigation of the 
incident resulted in the male 
being arrested and lodged in 
the Allegheny County Jail.
Theft
Oct. 23, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Wean Hall to 
take a theft of property report 
for a stolen computer. The reporting person is uncertain 
where the computer is, stating 
it has been two weeks since 
he remembers seeing it. The 
computer has been reported 
stolen, and an investigation is 
being conducted by University 
Police.
Solicitation to Buy 
Marijuana
Oct. 23, 2012
At 7:20 p.m., University 
Police responded to the fraternity quad on a report of a 
61-year-old female approaching students and attempting 
to buy marijuana. University 
Police obtained a description 
of the suspect and her vehicle and stopped her a short 
distance away. The female 
claimed to be attempting to 
buy marijuana for a friend 
who suffers from depression. 
University of?cers issued a 
de?ant trespass warning and 
noti?ed her that she would 
be arrested if she returned to 
Carnegie Mellon property.
Trash Fire
Oct. 24, 2012
At 1:49 p.m., University Police responded to Morewood 
Gardens due to a reported 
trash ?re. Of?cers found that 
a student had attached a hose 
from Morewood Gardens to a 
spigot and extinguished the 
?re prior to police arrival. The 
cause of the ?re is unknown.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Photo courtesy of NASA Goddard Photo and Video via Flickr
Hurricane Sandy, a Category 1 hurricane that started last Monday in the Caribbean Sea, has made landfall on the East Coast of the U.S., merging 
with a cold front to become what the media has dubbed Frankenstorm. Sandy is expected to continue inland, and Pittsburgh falls within the possible range of its epicenter. Pittsburgh can expect to see Sandy on Tuesday.
Statistically Speaking
East Coast residents have been worried by the possibility of widespread damage from Hurricane Sandy, 
which hit the coast on Sunday. Sandys projected path 
puts the storm right over Pittsburgh on Tuesday. Here 
are some facts about other storms that have hit the area:
3
32 miles
5.95 in.
80 mph
The speed of the winds in the 2002 thunderstorm 
that ripped the roof off a Kennywood ride, killing one 
and injuring 54.
Compiled by 
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Sources: www.erh.noaa.gov 
and old.post-gazette.com
Source: www.weather.com
The number of Carnegie Mellon class days cancelled for the 2010 
Snowpocalypse, during which Pittsburgh received 21 inches of 
snow.
The distance that a June 2, 1998 F1 tornado traveled 
through Allegheny County, injuring 50 people and 
causing millions of dollars in property damage.
ECE offers dual degree with Portuguese business school
The record rainfall for a 24-hour period in Pittsburgh, measured at Pittsburgh International Airport during the fallout 
of Hurricane Ivan in 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Lessmann graduated from 
Purdue University and the 
Pennsylvania College of Optometry, and recently aligned 
himself with the Tea Party by 
speaking at Western Pennsylvania Tea Party events.
Lessmann said in an article 
in The Wall Street Journal that 
the recent health care act is 
offensive and disrespectful 
to the Constitution. 
Senate
This years U.S. Senate 
race in Pennsylvania is between incumbent Democrat 
Bob Casey, Jr. and Republican 
Tom Smith.
Casey, who defeated incumbent Republican Senator Rick Santorum in 2006, 
attended the College of the 
Holy Cross and received a law 
degree from the Columbus 
School of Law at the Catholic 
University of America. Casey 
is running on an economic 
platform. To spur growth in 
Pennsylvanias life sciences 
industry, Senator Casey introduced the Life Sciences Jobs 
and Investment Act to promote innovation and job creation in life sciences research 
and development, according 
to his website.
Casey supported Obamas 
health care act and voted for 
the repeal of Dont Ask, Dont 
Tell. He is in favor of nondiscrimination legislation for the 
LGBT community.
Casey was a co-sponsor of 
the Stop Online Piracy Act, 
which drew substantial criticism due to accusations of it 
giving the government power 
for internet censorship.
His opponent this fall is 
Republican Tom Smith, who 
plans to simplify the tax code 
by instituting a ?at tax and 
closing loopholes. He also 
wants to reduce annual federal spending to 20 percent of 
the gross domestic product.
He campaigned to end the 
regulation that he says suffocates growth and kills jobs, 
according to his website.
Smith, who postponed college to run his family farm, 
worked in the coal industry 
in Pennsylvania, and wants to 
bring his business experience 
in a highly regulated industry 
into the political arena.
Smiths effective advertising gained him a great deal of 
attention, especially the advertisements that cast Casey 
as Candidate Zero, altering 
the Obama campaigns O 
logo to be a zero.
Despite these two races being dominated by candidates 
from the countrys main parties, students willing to be interviewed about their voting 
plans all expressed displeasure with the limited choice in 
mainstream candidates.
Sophomore mathematics 
major Arun Ramakrishnan 
said, Personally, I dont really support either of the candidates. If I did vote I would 
vote independent, but that 
wouldnt count.
Andrew Schwartz, a sophomore information systems 
major, is also frustrated by 
the inability of independent 
candidates to win elections. 
I am voting, but not for a major party candidate, he said. 
I hope that the candidate 
that loses does so by a margin 
equal to the population that 
didnt vote for a major party 
candidate, so the party realizes that their views were too 
extreme.
Stanley Krasner, sophomore economics and mathematics major, will not vote. 
In my current situation as 
an economics student, I feel 
that my vote in this election 
will not be as educated now as 
it will four years from now, 
he said. I feel that I should 
gain more knowledge before 
voting for something as important as our nations next 
leader.
safe, produced humanely, 
accessible to all, safe from 
chemicals, seasonal, and regional.
Food has to be safe and it 
has to taste good. Who wants 
to eat if it doesnt taste good? 
Hemmelgarn said. It has to 
be produced humanely, and 
that means from the animals 
all the way up to the people. 
She said the workers who 
plant and pick food need to 
be treated well. If they are 
treated poorly, then the food 
is not good food.
In her talk, Hemmelgarn 
also explained the difference 
between organic and natural 
food. 
She warned the audience 
to be careful of the lingo on 
packages.
Organic is extremely different from natural, Hemmelgarn said. Organic has a 
strong federal regulation in 
terms on what it can be and 
what it cant be. Natural? 
Very weak. No legal de?nitions, really; the FDA has one 
food de?nition, the [U.S. Department of Agriculture] has 
another.
During her talk, Hemmelgarn said that consumers 
should wait to buy organic 
foods until theyre in season 
locally.
Good food is seasonal 
and regional when it can be, 
Hemmelgarn said. Theres 
something better about a 
strawberry that you waited 
for. We can always get strawberries in February. Theyre 
everywhere. But is that sustainable? And I would argue 
that theyre not as delicious.
Later, Hemmelgarn continued, The gold standard is 
local, organic. The problem 
is that we import a lot. So 
[consider] an organic pepper 
thats [not] sprayed, but its 
coming from the Dominican 
Republic. Its good that there 
are no harmful chemicals being used in the Dominican Republic, but we have to consider the fuel thats used to bring 
this pepper here. So maybe 
just wait another month or 
two, and then youll have peppers that are local.
When asked about how 
that could potentially negatively affect the economics of 
the country exporting food 
for money, Hemmelgarn said, 
I think its important for 
countries to be food secure 
and to be able to feed themselves.
Jessica Owens, the supervisor of supplemental instruction in Excel programs 
at Carnegie Mellon, said that 
she thought the talk aligned 
with a lot of initiatives at the 
university. 
Owens said she would take 
away Hemmelgarns encouragement to do more critical 
thinking about food and apply it to life.
I think its important to 
be a part of the food system, 
said London Depaule, a graduate student at Chatham University. Depaule worked for a 
nonpro?t where he encountered people who didnt have 
easy access to food. 
I dont think youll know 
what its like unless you live 
in that situation, Depaule 
said. Of the talk, he said that 
he thought it was a call to action for students.
We have to rethink food 
access, and Id like to ask the 
question: Why cant people 
get to good food? Hemmelgarn said. I dont care whether youre in a prison, or a day 
care, a school, or where you 
are in the class system.... Everyone deserves good food.
I think its so important to 
eat organically and recognize 
that, while cheap is good, its 
bad in the long run, Suvi 
Gluskin, a senior in the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
program said. I hope CMU 
incorporates more organic 
sustainable practices.
Hispanic and the only computer scientist in his high 
school graduating class, Trejo 
Nuez plans to return to his 
hometown to encourage students to pursue STEM ?elds.
Carol Frieze, the organizer 
of the event and director of 
Women@SCS, said that the 
number of women involved 
in engineering and computer 
science has decreased in recent years. Frieze emphasized 
the importance of having a diverse student body, especially 
in STEM. The President [of 
the U.S.] says diversity makes 
university and education 
healthier for everybody, she 
said.
Jose Morales, a researcher 
from the Software Engineering Institute who helped organize the event, said, Just 
because youre diverse, it 
doesnt make you different in 
a weird way. You should actually celebrate who you are, 
your background, take pride 
of it, and blend it into your 
academic life.
Frieze and Morales said 
that the event was a trial run 
for future events, intended to 
gauge turnout and interest. 
Morales said that this panel 
will emulate future events at a 
bigger level.
Frieze closed the celebration by emphasizing the importance of promoting diversity in STEM ?elds. These 
are ?elds that, you know, 
have very few minorities. And 
thats why were paying attention, she said.
if everyone gets to assess the 
fee and gets exactly the same. 
Easier, absolutely. But we can 
handle that difference.
Mark campaigned last semester on a platform of raising 
the fee. He wrote in his of?cial 
platform, The student activities fee should be increased 
to re?ect the growing need 
of student organizations.... 
Through good advertising and 
education, I am con?dent the 
student body will see value in 
the increase for this fee.
The student activities fee 
is distributed annually by the 
Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC) to recognized student 
organizations.
Mark, who sits at the head 
of the JFC, believes that a fee 
increase is necessary in order 
to counteract a growing disparity between the funds requested by student organizations and funds granted  in 
particular, Mark said, between 
the revenue that JFC expects 
organizations to raise for 
themselves, and the amount 
that organizations are actually 
able to raise.
We really started seeing 
that revenue expectations 
were really high, Mark said.
Weiner, a senior economics 
and statistics and decision science double major, said that 
he has been a proponent of 
raising the fee since his time as 
Undergraduate Student Senate chair.
Its an issue I think that is 
pretty important to students, 
and I wanted to make sure 
... to give the students an opportunity to actually vote and 
see if this issue that we see as 
a problem [is one] students 
agree with, Weiner said.
According to Weiner, student government has been 
looking into other ways of 
solving the funding problem, 
such as tightening the requirements for funding student 
groups. But Weiner feels that 
raising the student activities 
fee is the only viable long-term 
solution.
A part of the big problem 
is that groups have been cutting back on lots of things, 
he said. Spring break trips 
arent being funded at all right 
now. These were things that 
we couldnt think of a way to 
fund at all. The only real solution to it is more money, at this 
point.
Mark, in turn, stressed the 
qualitative effect a fee increase 
would have on groups. I meet 
with probably close to seven 
organizations a week. And just 
hearing about how they dont 
have enough and how the 
system doesnt work for them 
in certain ways, thats what 
drives me to know that I need 
to overhaul this process.
Students in funded organizations have been guardedly 
positive about the idea of an 
increase.Ivy Krislov, a junior 
technical writing and creative 
writing double major and head 
of ?nance for readme, said, 
Were only getting money to 
put out the minimum number 
of issues that we would normally put out. We have very 
limited funds for anything 
else, and were expanding this 
year, so we have been mincing 
around trying to ?nd money to 
do things.
Our student activities fee 
isnt that expensive this year, 
so [a raise] would probably be 
worth it, just so that we could 
expand the opportunities people can offer to students, Krislov added.
Timothy Bach, a senior 
computer science major and 
operations director for Carnegie Mellon EMS, believes our 
current student activities fee is 
fairly low, and that in order for 
our school to focus on providing a well-rounded education, 
it should place emphasis on 
supporting student activities.
If we are intelligent about 
how we spend our JFC money, 
I think raising that fee will allow our students to do better 
things: to go to more conferences, to travel more, to learn 
more, to broaden their horizons, and I think that is critical, Bach said. I, like many 
other students, obviously do 
not want to pay more money, 
but I think that this is one of 
the areas where it is worth it.
However, Bach said that because he categorizes Carnegie 
Mellon EMS as a campus service, he does not believe that 
all of the clubs funding should 
be derived from Student Activities. Because were a campus service, we get the majority of our money from campus 
affairs. We get money from 
JFC and SDC to cover gaps 
in our budget for things like 
upgrading our infrastructure 
and buying required things 
like uniforms. I think that the 
purpose of JFC is to encourage 
students to do things outside 
of class, he said.
Tetyana Dolotova, H&SS 
interdisciplinary senior and 
president of Ballroom Dance 
Club, said that she would support an increase in the student 
activities fee if the change was 
minimal. I would not want 
to run our club as an inconvenience to the student body, 
but if its a subtle increase that 
other students wont really 
notice, then I would [support 
it], Dolotova said.
With the extra funding, 
Dolotova said her club would 
use the money to get Activities Board lighting and host 
bigger events. We hire professional dance instructors, and 
they charge a high fee for their 
services, and we also have a 
competition team  we have 
to pay to have them attend 
competitions, she said.
Shilpa Balaji, a senior 
computer science major and 
president of Mock Trial, said, 
The thing with the student 
activities fee is that a lot of 
that money goes to clubs that 
the people providing that fee 
arent necessarily a part of. 
Do I really want to be giving 
money to organizations that I 
will never see a bene?t from 
 or to a cause that I dont 
necessarily support? I think it 
could be good, but any kind of 
extremely large raise, I might 
have issues with.
The special election will 
run from Nov. 8 to Nov. 10. 
Mark will hold two town hall 
meetings to discuss the fee: 
one this Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
in Rangos 1, and one on Nov. 
6 at 5 p.m. in the Danforth 
Lounge.
Editors note: Check back 
next week for the second part in 
The Tartans continuing series 
on the student activities fee.
Increased activities fee could offer more opportunities
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Sharon Vuong, a Ph.D. candidate in chemical engineering, speaks about female stereotypes within the ?elds 
of math and science. 
Branching out in STEM ?elds
Lecture rethinks good food
DIVERSITY, from A1
Youth weigh election options
CANDIDATES, from A1
FUNDING, from A1
FOOD, from A1
The student activities fee should 
be increased to re?ect the growing 
need of student organizations.... 
Through good advertising and 
education, I am con?dent the 
student body will see value in the 
increase for this fee.
Jon Mark
Student Body Vice President for Finance

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 29, 2012
CMU and Disney researchers create 3-D printed optics
JENNIFER GOLDA
Staffwriter
With the development of 
novel 3-D printed optics, magic 
comes to life at Carnegie Mellon inside the Disney Research 
Pittsburgh lab. 
Behind the closed doors 
of the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center, 
members of the Disney and 
Carnegie Mellon communities are conducting various 
projects and creating innovative technologies that would 
enhance the entertainment 
experience of Disneys amusement parks.
Three-dimensional printing is a manufacturing process 
in which an object is created, 
or printed, one layer at a 
time. Using a printing liquid 
that cures quickly, the printer 
creates the object pass-by-pass 
per the desired geometry provided by a computer program. 
Even though 3-D printers 
were introduced in the 80s, 
new technologies and reduced 
costs have allowed research to 
expand.
For example, multiple materials can be printed into one 
object. This property broadens 
the range of 3-D printings applications by increasing the 
level of complexity a printed 
structure can have.
The Disney Research website describes printed optics 
as, A new approach to creating custom optical elements 
for interactive devices using 
3-D printing. Optics refers to 
the behavior and properties of 
light, and manipulating light 
is important to an entertainment company such as Disney. 
The uses  range from the experience someone gets walking 
through a room to an interactive digital display.
On the team researching 
printed optics are Karl D.D. 
Willis, a Ph.D. candidate in 
computational design; adjunct 
professor of architecture Eric 
Brockmeyer; Human-Computer Interaction Institute professor Scott E. Hudson; and Ivan 
Poupyrev, a Disney senior research scientist.
The researchers optical elements are printed from transparent plastic, and they use 
bubbles to manipulate light. 
Bubbles added inside the plastic during printing re?ect light 
within the display to reveal internal patterns or text.
To direct light, the group 
developed light pipes, which 
resemble optical ?bers. Because multiple materials allow one to create structures 
within structures, light pipes 
made from transparent plastics can be printed within the 
greater structure, and they offer a wider range in lighting 
displays than optical ?ber can.
When describing the versatility 3-D printing has to offer, Willis said, Theres really 
no other technology that...
can make clear material that 
is arbitrary geometry and arbitrary shapes on the inside.
The team used a toy with 
light-up and moving eyes as 
an example of this technologys applications. By redirecting images projected in the 
toys base through its body, 
the team has created a light 
display in a childrens toy 
without LEDs, batteries, or circuits. This simplicity highlights 
another advantage of 3-D 
printing: Everything is printed 
in one piece, not made up of 
multiple parts.
A printed structure is still 
currently more expensive to 
produce than a similar product 
assembled from pieces. The 
researchers, however, stressed 
that the goal of this research 
is not about mass production, 
but about customization.
Were really not trying to 
compete with [commercial] 
technologies, Brockmeyer 
said, But sort of trying to 
realize what additive manufacturing can provide that is 
different from those manufacturing.
In addition to manipulating the properties of light, 
their research involves utilizing light to give toys different capabilities. If pieces are 
inserted into the object midprint, like an LED or infrared 
emitter/receiver pairs, the object can detect light in addition 
to refracting it. This ability allows the technology to expand 
to sensors.
The possibilities are far and 
wide  with its versatile and 
customizable nature, this technology surpasses traditional 
optics and is limited only by 
ones imagination. Printed 
optics would make any geek 
agree with Disney: Dreams 
do come true.
LIGIA NESTOR
Staffwriter
How does an iPhone 
know when a ?nger touches 
its screen? Its because the 
screen is capacitive, meaning 
that it has a little bit of electric 
current resting on its surface. 
When someone touches it, a 
tiny amount of current ?ows 
through that persons body to 
the Earth, which makes the 
voltage on the screen surface 
drop. The iPhone observes 
this difference in voltage and 
realizes that a human must be 
touching it.
Chris Harrison, a Ph.D. 
student in the Human-Computer Interaction Institute, has 
re?ned this technology in his 
research. He and his collaborators  Ivan Poupyrev of 
Disney Research and Munehiko Sato of the University of 
Tokyo  created a prototype 
of a capacitive sensor that 
can tell who is touching the 
screen. While normal capacitive screens might measure 
the draw of electricity at 
1,000 Hz, this prototype measures the draw at many different frequencies  ranging 
from 1,000 to 3.5 million Hz. 
This creates a curve in real 
time representing the electrical properties of the person 
touching the screen.
The construction of the 
original capacitive sensor 
took two years to fully develop, followed by six months of 
research on person differentiation. The researchers tested 
their sensor on a group of 12 
participants.
The researchers sensor 
samples the electrical properties of a human; these properties are in?uenced by how 
dense your bones are, how 
much blood you have, how 
muscular you are, what kind 
of shoes youre wearing, 
Harrison said. After measuring these characteristics and 
learning from them, the sensor can use that to guess who 
the person is. Their research 
leverages the fact that electrical properties differ from person to person, but also from 
tissue to tissue.
Your bones might have 
the lowest resistance at 
12,000 Hz, but if you go to 
15,000, there is higher resistance, Harrison said.
For example, if you have 
a two-player game on a big 
touch screen, one player 
would draw in blue and the 
other would draw in red. 
The system would know who 
drew in what color without 
prior knowledge of the players and without them needing 
to identify themselves before 
each move. Undoing a move 
would also become easier. 
When a player clicks the undo 
button, his last move would 
be erased  not the global 
last move, which might belong to the other player.
Knowing who is touching 
the screen and when is a useful feature, especially for big 
surfaces. In the case of games 
that are on the same screen, 
capacitive sensing can keep 
individual score.
However, the system has 
not yet been perfected. A user 
could fool the system by trying to copy the curve representing the electrical properties of another person. If you 
lift your foot off the ground 
and you touch something 
made of metal, you can trick 
the system so that your curve 
looks very similar to mine, 
Harrison said.
When wearing thick boots, 
a user is going to look different than a user wearing light 
sneakers. While this is not 
good for security, the system 
looks for differentiation when 
two people come together to 
play a game on a tablet.
You look different from 
me just enough that it would 
work for an hour, Harrison 
said.
But sensing in the real 
world is more probabilistic 
than binary. Harrison believes 
he can combine his capacitive 
sensing method with computer vision, speech processing, 
and motion detection in order 
to get better accuracy. Any 
single sensing method might 
be 90 percent accurate, but 
when combined, they could 
be as accurate as 99 percent. 
This is the challenge for 
Harrisons future research: 
making the system more robust, out of the lab and into 
the real world in phones and 
tablets. For this, more users 
and test cases are needed to 
completely understand how it 
performs. The user study the 
researchers conducted was 
not big, but it showed that the 
technology can work. And 
thats already a big contribution, Harrison said.
Researchers create screens that can differentiate users
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN
Junior Staffwriter
One often hears of lie 
detectors being used to determine whether a suspect 
is providing an accurate account. The most people know 
is that the suspect is asked 
a series of questions and, by 
the end, the examiner studies 
the machines results and hypothesizes whether or not the 
answers were accurate. But 
what are the true mechanics 
of this machine?
Although it is a seemingly complex process for a 
machine to assess a complex 
array of human emotion and 
cognition based on a few responses, the mechanisms of 
a lie detector are relatively 
simple.
Lie detectors, also known 
as polygraphs, are most commonly used for criminal investigations or government-related job positions. The idea is 
to determine signs of lying by 
assessing the suspects physiological responses to a series 
of questions.
The examiner chooses 
from a variety of techniques 
to determine if the subjects physiological reactions 
changed signi?cantly or deviated from normal levels during the period of the test. The 
most common method examiners use is to ask suspects 
a series of multiple-choice 
questions, some of which only 
the criminal would know the 
answer to. During and after 
the test, examiners determine 
whether the suspects reactions changed signi?cantly 
when asked these targeted 
questions.
Another method commonly used by examiners is assessing the suspects physiological 
reaction to a few simple, neutral questions at the beginning of the exam, and seeing 
whether their reactions to 
sensitive questions differ signi?cantly. Similarly, examiners may ask the suspects to lie 
deliberately, so that the way 
they react may be compared 
to their reactions to questions 
asked later in the exam.
The last approach examiners use is alternating between 
asking the subject neutral as 
well as sensitive questions, 
assessing the ?uctuation between their reactions.
To monitor physical reactions, sensors are attached 
to people taking the test to 
monitor their breathing rate, 
pulse, blood pressure, perspiration, and occasionally 
limb movements. Subjects 
reactions are recorded by the 
sensors and then graphed 
by needles on moving paper. 
In more modern versions of 
polygraphs, the same goal is 
achieved by advanced computer algorithms, which monitor these signs and then send 
the results to be graphed onto 
a digital screen.
While polygraphs are currently the most accessible 
means of determining whether or not a suspect is being 
truthful, the machine does 
have its drawbacks. It is important to recall that technology is deterministic  that is, 
it produces a certain result by 
going through a known series 
of steps. 
Therefore, if a suspect is 
in fact a criminal and knows 
the workings of a lie detector, he or she can manipulate 
it so that it displays data to 
make answers seem truthful. 
Since increased sweat is often detected by the machine 
as an indicator of lying, one 
can use a strong antiperspirant to keep from sweating 
too much. One can also take 
a drug that lessens symptoms 
of stress, such as Valium, in 
order to give more measured 
responses. 
On the other hand, blood 
pressure medication can have 
adverse affects on the polygraph test. If the person taking the test takes this type of 
medication, the results could 
show a number of lies, even if 
he or she was telling the truth. 
Errors may also be made on 
an examiners end, because 
human emotions are, after all, 
unpredictable and may not be 
accurately portrayed by technology. 
Polygraphs are utilized in 
criminal thefts, national security matters, and even preemployment screenings. So if 
you ever ?nd yourself being 
tested by one, remember to 
stay calm, breathe, and answer honestly  whether its 
for your job or your alibi.
Lie detectors verify the truth using physiological sensors 
Molly Swartz/Staff Artist
Todd Medema/Junior Photographer
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon and Disney Pittsburgh develop toys that utilize the technology of 3-D printing.
Photo Illustration by Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
HOW THINGS WORK

---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
American Lung Association creates air pollution app
The American Lung Association (ALA) introduced its 
new State of the Air app, 
available for both iPhone and 
Android, which also connects 
to Twitter and Facebook. This 
app informs residents of the 
air quality in their living area 
for following days, as well as 
of the danger of the air pollution and ozone levels that occupy nearby areas.
It depicts a character with 
the name Alvin Grimes collecting air particles in jars as a 
way to in?uence users to think 
about the particles they collect in their own lungs. Norman Edelman, chief medical 
of?cer of the ALA, said that 
over 40 percent of Americans 
live in areas where pollution 
continues to be a threat. 
Source: The Huf?ngton Post
Neurobiologist studies singing mice
Scientists discovered that 
mice can sing, similar to dolphins and songbirds. Enrich 
Jarvis, a neurobiologist at 
Duke University, stated that 
mice have more similarities 
with humans in vocal communication than with any 
other species. Jarvis veri?ed 
that mice did not have brain 
connections to pick up new 
songs by conducting experiments that involved destroying mices motor controls.
In the future, Jarvis plans 
to study how genes affect vocalization in mice and brain 
structure to determine its 
similarities of that to humans 
and songbirds. Jarvis ultimate question lies in whether 
mice can sing better than 
songbirds can.
Source: CBS News
Scientists one-up nature with synthetic solar cell
Researchers, led by Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor Daniel Nocera, 
have produced an advanced 
solar cell in the shape of a leaf 
that is 10 times more ef?cient 
at carrying out photosynthesis than a natural cell is. The 
cell has catalytic materials 
on both sides, and needs no 
external wires or control circuits.
When placed in a container of water under sunlight, 
the cell produces oxygen bubbles from one side and hydrogen bubbles from the other. 
Both of these are collected to 
produce energy if the cell is 
placed in a container that separates the two sides. The cell 
itself is composed of widely 
available materials such as 
silicon, cobalt, and nickel.
Source: Massachusetts           
Institute of Technology Times
Dinosaurs may have used feathers for mating
Paleontologists looking at 
Canadian dinosaur fossils discovered in 1995 believe that 
the juvenile ornithomimus 
had feathers.
The dinosaur still did not 
have the ability to ?y, and the 
exact purpose of the feathers remains unknown. As the 
feathers are only found on 
adults, some scientists speculate they may have been used 
for reproductive purposes. 
The idea is that these were 
for communication, said bird 
expert Richard Prum of Yale 
University. The new ?ndings 
were published in the journal 
Science.
Source: NPR
Ozone hole smallest size in decades
Scientists have determined 
that the hole in the ozone layer reached its smallest maximum extent in two decades. 
The ozone layer, which protects the Earth from UV light, 
thins during late September 
and early October; this years 
largest reported hole was 21.2 
million square kilometers. 
The hole in the ozone layer 
is created by frigid temperatures and reactions between 
chlorine and man-made chloro?uorocarbon gases. Scientists say that the shrinking of 
the hole can be attributed to 
warmer Antarctic temperatures from changing weather.
Source: Science News
Newly discovered species of frog appears to lie
Conservation International announced the discovery 
of a new species of frog, nicknamed the Pinocchio frog, 
in the Foja Mountains of New 
Guinea. This lost-world amphibian was found by Paul 
Oliver, a herpetologist at 
the University of Adelaide, 
who happened to spot one 
perched on a bag of rice at 
the campsite during a downpour. 
The Pinocchio frogs  nose 
is noted to stand up when 
the frog is excited, and droop 
down otherwise. Other functions of the Pinocchio frogs 
nose remain unknown.
Source: Discovery News
Compiled by
DESIREE XU
SCITECH BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed 
by Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Abby Smith, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Braden Kelner, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Asst. Personnel Manager
ALLISON COSBY *
Staffwriter
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 29, 2012
Student government has an image problem, but this years Student 
Senate Week faced the issues head 
on.
The editorial board of The Tartan 
has not been shy in the past about 
noting the lack of transparency between the student body and Student 
Senate. Although Senate representatives are very aware of the concerns 
and priorities of the student body (as 
students themselves), there is often 
a lack of visibility with Student Senates activities.
Last year, we were very excited 
to hear the announcement of Carnegie Mellons ?rst ever Student Senate Week, a ?ve-day-long series of 
events aimed at improving transparency. But we were disappointed to 
?nd that 2011s Senate Week focused 
more on Senators awareness of the 
student body than vice versa. 
However, it seems that this year, 
Student Senate is aiming to form a 
stronger relationship with the student body and create a means to 
disperse information to the campus 
community. We were very impressed 
with how this years Student Senate 
went above and beyond and focused 
Senate Week toward improving the 
student bodys awareness of Student 
Senate. 
The presence of representatives 
tabling outside of the University 
Center was a notable change from 
previous years, where student government lacked an ongoing and immediate connection with students on 
campus.
In particular, The Tartan would 
like to commend the college representatives who, in conjunction with 
Senate Week, sent out emails last 
Monday to just their respective departments students. The emails contained the names of the representatives, in order to encourage student 
body input on Senate initiatives. 
Not only is this a tactful acknowledgement and a step in the right direction toward improving their visibility, but this type of outreach to 
departments from Student Senators 
 as individuals with names rather 
than as an amorphous student organization  is incredibly useful for 
the student body. 
We strongly encourage the rest 
of Student Senate to perform similar 
types of student body outreach in the 
future.
Student Senate improves visibility with Senate Week
Activities fee increase based on improper metrics
Student Body President for Finance Jon Mark, along with student 
governments Executive Branch, is 
petitioning to raise the student activities fee by 25 percent, or $24 per 
semester. 
This is a well-meaning cause in 
theory  student organizations 
would greatly bene?t from more 
money. Organizations have been hit 
hard with cutbacks in their budgets, 
and the reported $272,000 extra revenue from a fee increase would do 
wonders for student groups. 
However, the intention is where 
the good part of this proposed increase stops. The reasoning and 
statistics Mark cites in the various 
documents he emailed to students 
on Thursday are vague at best. 
For example, Mark ties the student activities fee to the the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and argues 
that the CPI has increased by an average of 2.4 percent per year, while 
the number of student organizations 
has increased by about 10 percent. 
Mark claims that this is one of 
the main reasons for cutbacks and 
why groups are forced to do more 
with less. However, the CPI is used to 
calculate in?ation in the economy: 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics determines the average cost for a bundle 
of household purchases, and the resulting CPI represents the changes 
in the prices of these average purchases.
The purpose of Carnegie Mellons activities fee is not to pay for 
these average household goods; its 
to print ?yers, organize concerts, 
and bring petting zoos to campus, 
among other activities. As a result, 
the CPI is an inaccurate model for 
price increases and a bad measure 
for estimating the increase of prices 
in materials and goods that student 
groups actually buy.
Similarly, according to Marks 
own graphs in his presentation, the 
actual revenue student organizations bring in has remained relatively unchanged since 2010. Why 
has the Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC) continually set, as Mark put it, 
large fundraising expectations on 
student groups when they havent 
been able to meet said expectations? 
The JFC should have understood and 
adjusted for the obviously unrealistic 
fundraising expectations it is putting 
on student groups.
For example, in the 2012 budget, the overall expected revenue 
of groups was about $900,000, yet 
the JFC requested $1.2 million in 
revenue. That $300,000 difference is 
huge and suggests that the JFC  does 
not understand how student organizations operate and what they can 
realistically accomplish. 
Moreover, why has the JFC allowed the Committee on Student Organizations to acknowledge so many 
groups  an estimated 300 by the 
end of this academic year  when 
JFC members have known for years 
about limited funds? 
Carnegie Mellon is vastly improved by having such a diversity of 
organizations and avenues for students to get involved, but there is a 
current redundancy in the missions 
and goals of numerous student organizations. We acknowledge that student government has been working 
toward combining student groups to 
avoid such overlap, but this should 
not have even become a problem in 
the ?rst place.
JFC ultimately needs to change 
the budgeting process and metrics. 
Until this happens, organizations 
will still have budget issues that need 
to be resolved. 
The increased student activities 
fee would be immensely helpful for 
the student organizations on campus, but the proposal of the increase 
must be based on relevant data and 
realistic expectations. Additionally, 
current efforts to reduce costs and 
eliminate redundancies must be pursued more strongly.
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
LUKE MASA
Junior Staffwriter
Well, to put it into terms any 
hardcore fan of the show Community would understand, it looks like 
NBC Brittad it again.
For those of you not enamored 
with the students at Greendale Community College, this means the network screwed up. It is bad enough 
that, going into this fourth season, 
NBC ?red creator and executive 
producer Dan Harmon, but now it 
seems NBC feels that the show is not 
important enough to merit a proper 
premiere. If this is how the airing 
of season four is going to play out, 
Id have much rather seen the show 
cancelled at the end of season three, 
which I felt wrapped up everything 
quite nicely anyway.
Yet the question remains: Why 
bring the show back from extinction 
just to continue messing with it?
Unsurprisingly, reports seem to 
indicate that some of NBCs new 
comedies arent doing so well  
theyre doing so poorly, in fact, that 
even the meager ratings Community 
usually brings in would be a step up, 
so the network might move Community back to Thursdays as a lead-in, 
as speculated by entertainment blog 
Vulture. According to The Hollywood 
Reporter, the network just did this 
with Whitney by cancelling Animal 
Practice, yet Community remains up 
in the air.
Alternatively, it could be that 
NBC wants to double down on the 
success of the few sitcoms it has that 
are doing okay, such as Go On, and 
thus not waste its efforts on promoting Community.
In either case, my resentment 
comes from the fact that NBC 
knows that any time slot they put 
Community in will gather the same 
core viewers, like myself, who have 
watched it from the beginning. Community actually gets a signi?cant 
portion of its views from online and 
DVR as well, something that network executives have yet to grasp.
I am still baf?ed by the fact that 
network television executives mess 
around with their most critically acclaimed shows that have dedicated 
audiences. They focus on their simple, trite, safe shows that garner the 
big ratings because those equal big 
bucks. Money is their bottom line 
 but when you have a niche to ?ll, 
why not try to please the fans who 
in theory have tastes must less capricious than the average viewers?
Maybe thats the problem, 
though: High-brow shows outside of 
basic cable and subscription-based 
networks just dont have any appeal 
to the average American. I think that 
instead of trying to become more in 
tune with what the public wants, 
good shows like Community should 
stick to their guns. If they fail, at 
least theyll have failed without selling out. 
And hey, theres always the Arrested Development route of coming 
back with new episodes on Net?ix 
seven years later.
Trouble for Community evident with premiere
Fellow Tartans,
Anyone who is at all familiar 
with our community knows that 
Carnegie Mellon University is a very 
special place. We build robots, write 
sonnets, sing operas, crunch numbers  and thats just the start of 
it. Our interests are eclectic, and as 
a community we could not be more 
proud of this.
Carnegie Mellon students are extraordinarily passionate. Whether 
said passion be directed toward our 
sorority or fraternity, our debate 
team, our service group, or our residence hall, in one way or another 
every Carnegie Mellon student has 
that intense Tartan pride inside of 
them.
Given that our university is so 
diverse and our interests so varied, 
weve never been the type of student 
body that comes together in its entirety for the weekly Saturday football game  but there is no reason 
that we cant be.
This coming Saturday marks 
the ?nal home game of the Carnegie Mellon football season and 
we wanted to make it special. Our 
football players have had a tremendous season. Not only is the football 
team 53, but Will and myself have 
enjoyed an incredible sense of community and school spirit at all of this 
seasons games. For the ?nal home 
game of the season, we wanted to 
combine the student bodys unique 
expression of spirit with the game 
day atmosphere in a competition 
that we are hoping will become an 
annual event.
It is for these reasons that we 
have put together the Carnegie Mellon Organization GameDay Competition. At the Saturday football 
game, which starts at noon at Gesling Stadium, all student organizations, residence halls, Greek houses, 
and sports teams will be encouraged 
to compete for the Carnegie Mellon 
Organization GameDay Cup.
The winner will be determined 
by three different competitive categories: attendance, creativity, and 
spirit. Groups will earn points for 
every member that shows up in their 
organization or Carnegie Mellon 
gear and checks in with our representatives at the entrance to the 
stands.
Attendance scores will also be 
categorized to re?ect the size of the 
organization and ensure that smaller organizations are given as much 
of a chance at winning as larger residence halls or Greek houses. Groups 
can earn points for creativity by designing banners, signs, or shirts that 
support our football team. We will 
also be roaming the stands and giving points to those groups who are 
exemplifying school spirit through 
cheering and other means of support.
The winners will receive the 
Carnegie Mellon Organization 
GameDay Cup, prizes, and free catering for one of their events, provided by the Student Body President 
and Student Body Vice President.
You can learn more about the 
Carnegie Mellon Organization 
GameDay Competition by visiting 
our Facebook page, facebook.com/
cmusbp. We are so excited about the 
potential of this event, and hope to 
see you all there.
Meela Dudley
Student Body Vice President
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVELast home football game opportune time for spirit

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Jennifer Coloma
We become frightened easily at The Tartan, and Halloween is this week. So we asked,
What is the scariest thing about Carnegie Mellon?
October 29, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
BRADEN KELNER
The tech wizards at Apple are at 
it again. Greeting spectators at the 
California Theatre in San Jose less 
than two months after the iPhone 5s 
announcement, CEO Tim Cook and 
other executives unveiled a new family of iPads and Macs. 
Among the variety of hardware 
added to Apples top-tier product 
line, a new breed of iPad  the iPad 
Mini  stole the spotlight as the 
events biggest news. Although the 
iPad Mini will probably produce record pro?ts, as expected from any 
new Apple product, the device was 
announced too late and with too 
high a price point to be considered a 
milestone for the company.
Despite boasting a smaller screen 
than the iPad, Apple promises that 
the iPad Mini will offer everything its 
larger sibling does. Consumers will 
get all the perks of the iPad Minis 
brother  tons of apps, an e-reader, 
a web browser, you name it  in a 
more compact form.
The iPad Mini is a great new offering that not only gives consumers 
a larger selection of Apple tablets, 
but also provides developers with 
a new platform for their software. 
According to Adam Najberg of The 
Wall Street Journal, the iPad Mini 
could spur the development of tablet 
gaming because of its smaller screen 
 just the right size for portable 
gaming.
That being said, the tablets 16GB 
entry-level model sells for $329. 
Compared to the $199 price tag of 
Amazons Kindle Fire HD and Barnes 
& Nobles Nook HD, the iPad Mini 
is an expensive piece of hardware, 
maybe too expensive for consumers 
on a budget. 
Why spend an extra $130 when 
there are products on the market 
that are just as compelling? Unless 
Apples ecosystem of content is important to the consumer, there might 
not be a reason to justify spending 
the extra money.
In addition to wondering why 
the devices price is so high, another 
question must be asked: Why did 
Apple wait so long to launch the iPad 
Mini?
The original Kindle Fire was announced over a year ago on Sept. 
28, while the Nook Color  running 
Android  was released in late 2010. 
Other miniature tablets, such as the 
original Samsung Galaxy Tab, were 
also released over a year ago. 
If the iPad Mini was released 
around the time of the ?rst portable 
tablets, it may have been considered 
a revolutionary competitor. The device is de?nitely still an enticing option in the tablet market, but it seems 
more like an afterthought than what 
could have been a show-stealing 
product.
Even more disconcerting is Apples choice to launch the iPad Mini 
in October, along with the fourth 
generation iPad. Why didnt Apple 
launch the iPad Mini with the third 
generation iPad earlier this year or 
wait until the spring, when iPads 
have traditionally been launched, to 
reveal the newest tablets?
The iPad Mini will surely be a hit 
for the holiday season. Loved ones of 
all ages will rip open their presents 
to ?nd the shiny new Apple-branded 
tablet. 
In fact, this holiday season may be 
one of Apples best seasons yet. Still, 
to many consumers, their third generation iPad or iPad 2 still feels brand 
new. 
For customers who look forward 
to buying the latest Apple technology, the thought of buying the iPad 
Mini after purchasing an iPad a few 
months earlier may seem unreasonable. Even die-hard fans could ?nd 
Apples latest product launch to be 
more of a nuisance than a reason to 
pull out their credit cards.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan. 
Undecided voting stems from lack of appealing candidates
iPad Mini release is too little, too late
WILLIAM PARK
Junior Staffwriter
I am an undecided voter, and 
lately Ive been taking a lot of heat. 
People are frustrated that after three 
presidential debates and months of 
manipulative advertising, I have yet 
to make up my mind. The future of 
our country lies in the choice I make, 
and I am taking my sweet time. 
Whats wrong with me? A lot, but Im 
not the only one to blame for my indecision.
Frankly, I wouldnt be in this position if we had better candidates. I 
couldnt agree more when people say 
that this is the election for the least 
worst candidate. If only former governor of Alaska Sarah Palin were 
running. Instead, we have two candidates who are both ?awed in less 
shallow ways.
I like President Barack Obama as 
a person. Had I been of age in 2008, 
I would have voted for him. His message of hope had me hooked. However, four years later, the disappearance 
of this positivism in favor of acerbic 
attacks against the opposition is what 
frustrates me most. Where is that 
message of hope now? Maybe we 
do need change, and maybe it starts 
with changing the person in of?ce.
But should I vote for Republican 
presidential candidate Mitt Romney 
just because he is the only alternative? Its complicated. Romney is very 
unlikable. He ?ips and ?ops too often. 
Although hes unlikable, that doesnt 
mean he cant ?x the economy.
Romneys main selling point is that 
the incumbent hasnt done enough 
for the economy and that he can do 
a better job. However, the Republican candidate needs a more plausible 
and convincing plan. I would like to 
have faith, but the math for his economic recovery simply doesnt add 
up  not without the loopholes he is 
hesitant to name, and not with his intended tax cuts. On the other hand, I 
dont know how I feel about Obamas 
economic plan because I dont think 
it exists. Maybe he thinks no plan will 
look good next to Romneys. But he 
has to show us something, because 
his record is not that strong.
But there is one more person who 
also makes my decision so agonizing: 
the decided voter. Secretly, Im jealous of that ability to make a big decision and stick with it, yet I marvel at 
how many can wholeheartedly back 
either of these candidates. The decided voters biases and unconditional 
support make me want to defend and 
support the candidate they oppose. 
At the same time, their arguments do 
a convincing job of making me lean 
their way.
But the vehemently partisan voter 
is also the root of whats wrong with 
our political system. After all, in a democracy we select our leaders, and 
our thirst for harmless ?xes has left 
us with candidates too well versed 
in manipulation and empty promises. We need to make better choices. 
To do this, we cannot be voters who 
respond to the negativity that is our 
candidates favorite form of persuasion. We have to cheer louder when 
they show us their vision but recognize when were being lied to. Most 
importantly, we have to recognize 
that our leaders re?ect our own 
strengths and weaknesses, and that 
to have leaders of great character requires reconsidering our own values.
Maybe Im being too cynical, and 
maybe Im harping too much on our 
politicians negative attributes and 
our sorry standards. But deep down, 
I think I could be a romantic. I want 
to believe in government and its leaders. I want to believe that we will do 
a better job of choosing these leaders.
In the meantime, this presidential 
race is just two proud politicians running for of?ce. If you have decided 
who to vote for, great. I just ask that 
you give me some space while I make 
my own decision.
CHLOE THOMPSON
In The Tartans last issue, Anna 
Walsh wrote a wonderful article on 
Ms. CMU and its Who Needs Feminism? campaign. Her conclusion 
was that Carnegie Mellon still needs 
feminism because of the sexism that 
still exists on campus. I agree with 
her 110 percent. Sexism is pervasive, not just on this campus but 
pretty much everywhere you look. 
But feminism ful?lls another, 
equally critical function. Feminism 
is important because it reminds us 
that we learn things we are never 
explicitly told.
No one in my life ever said, 
Chloe, when you react to something emotionally, people will probably think its because youre a girl, 
or, Once you hit the whole puberty 
thing, people are going to start seeing you as a sexual object. Seriously, 
your boobs have the potential to outweigh your opinion. 
No one ever said, Its okay when 
boys have frequent, casual sex  beyond okay, its actually a good thing! 
It means hes virile. But if you do, 
someones probably going to call 
you a slut.
No one had to tell me these things 
because I absorbed that knowledge 
on my own. Thats the kind of information that ?lters through when 
people call a man who has multiple sexual partners a player, but a 
woman who has the same number 
of partners a whore, or when people 
look at a woman in a prominent position and say, Shes there because 
shes a woman.
This subtle absorption of stereotypes and prejudice is the true 
enemy of modern feminism. The 
problem isnt that boys are told that 
women exist as sexual objects; its 
that almost every story we hear concludes with an ending like, And the 
guy got the girl in the end. Weve 
heard that phrase so many times 
that there is a silent of course 
tacked onto the end.
This concept implies that hard 
work and being somehow worthy enough will drop an attractive 
woman into a guys lap like a prize. 
Human relationships are not like 
gumball machines. You dont insert 
a quarter and get a person.
Just to be clear: No one is attacking individuals over these issues. 
Most guys I know clam up immediately in the face of a discussion about 
sexism, because they feel these discussions are personal attacks. They 
arent supposed to be. Sexism is ingrained into us from birth as a social 
and institutional problem; everyone 
participates in it and perpetuates it.
When I hear about a guy who has 
gone through three girls in a single 
week, a little voice in my head murmurs, Hes a guy. Theyre like that. 
This is not an admiring observation 
on my part, but it isnt a fair one either. And when I hear about a girl 
doing something similar? The voice 
whispers, Slut. I try to silence that 
voice at every opportunity, because 
that girls life and body are not mine 
and therefore not my business, and 
there is absolutely nothing wrong 
with embracing ones sexuality.
The effects of being raised in an 
inherently sexist system do not disappear overnight. Sometimes they 
do not disappear at all. I dont care 
about how much sex people have. 
But Ive grown up in a world that 
permits and encourages nosing into 
other peoples lives.
Feminism gives me the ability to 
see these prejudices in myself and 
to understand where they come 
from. In her article, Walsh wrote, 
Feminism gives us the space, the 
vocabulary, and the strength to address [these social issues] head-on. 
Feminism also gives us the means to 
understand how the world molds us, 
when we dont even realize that we 
are being shaped at all.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is assistant 
personnel manager for The Tartan.
Ingrained prejudices are combatted by feminism
Annette Ko/Junior Artist
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
Grace Pan
Business Administration & 
Decision Science
Sophomore
Majoring in something non-tech 
because its hard to find a job.
Shannon Horgan
MechE
Sophomore
Being around people of highcaliber and trying to live up to the 
high expectations.
Liz Yang
ECE
First-year Grad
The amount of work.
Branden Wiles
Policy & Management
Junior
The hard exams.
Sam Cedarbaum
Computer Science
Sophomore
The work load.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

October 29, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Tartans tie in scoreless game
ABBY SMITH
Junior Staffwriter
Despite dominating offensively, the Carnegie Mellon 
womens soccer team played 
to a 00 tie against New York 
University last Friday afternoon, putting the Tartans at 
a 311 University Athletic 
Association (UAA) conference 
record.
In the ?rst half, the Tartans 
attempted ?ve shots against 
the New York University Violets, all of which were blocked 
by the dominant Violet defense.
The Tartans continued 
their strong offensive effort 
as the team earned ?ve corner 
kicks in the ?rst eight minutes 
of the half. Players including 
senior defender Mitra Ebrahimi, sophomore forward Savina Reid, sophomore defender 
Lauren Simicich, and junior 
defender Rachel Contopoulos 
made attempts at goals.
Junior goalie Anna Albi 
had an excellent game, highlighted by a save on a header 
by New York Universitys senior forward Serra Turmay 
during the 56th minute.
The Tartans continued 
with promising goal attempts 
into overtime, but the game 
was kept scoreless by New 
York University sophomore 
goalie Meg Patten.
At 92 minutes, junior forward Alex Venegas made a 
back pass to ?rst-year forward 
Louisa Pendergast, but Patten 
dived to knock the ball away.
At 95 minutes, senior 
Brianna Magill made a last
ditch effort to score, but once 
again, Patten didnt give her 
the chance.
The team fought extremely hard against a talented 
New York University team, 
senior mid?elder Stephanie 
Hare said. Unfortunately, 
we couldnt get the ball in the 
back of the net. We are using our momentum to hopefully get a big win in our next 
game. The team is working really hard and ?ghting for each 
other every UAA battle.
The Tartans will face 
tough UAA competition with 
their ?nal in-season game at 
home this Saturday at 3 p.m., 
against currently undefeated 
Emory University.
Nick Ettlinger/Junior Photographer
No. 29 senior Stephanie Hare (kicking the ball) has started in 14 of the Tartans 15 games this season.
Mens soccer tallies third win
GABRIELLE WEST
Junior Staffwriter
The mens soccer team 
added another University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
win Friday afternoon after 
defeating the New York University Violets; the team is 
now 1121 and 311 in the 
UAA. The game ended with a 
score of 41.
The team outlook is very 
positive right now, said senior Ben Bryant, who took 
two of the teams 17 shots on 
Friday. We are feeling great 
about how we played yesterday against NYU. They are a 
solid team, and we were able 
to score four on them. We 
moved the ball very well, and 
had many scoring chances as 
a result.
The Tartans put their ?rst 
goal on the scoreboard at the 
34-minute mark, when ?rstyear mid?elder Connor Webb 
made his ?rst goal of his college career with an assist from 
junior forward Max Tassano. 
Just three minutes later, the 
Tartans increased the de?cit 
to 20 when Bryant assisted a 
corner kick to junior defender 
Cole Christensen, who headed the ball in net for another 
goal.
Within the ?rst 15 minutes of the second half, the 
Tartans scored again. Tassano 
?nished this goal after a long 
throw from sophomore defender Jakob Rohwer. Before 
the halfway point in the second period, the Violets scored 
their ?rst and only goal off a 
penalty kick.
The Tartans answered the 
Violets goal with a goal of 
their own just four minutes 
later, when sophomore forward Daniel Kursman-Neri 
?nished an assist from Christensen.
The games conclusion left 
the Tartans to look forward 
to another UAA game against 
Emory University at home 
this Saturday.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
No. 4 junior mid?elder Chris Wysocki has scored three goals and accumulated two assists this season.
Ultimate Frisbee takes ?rst place in Fall Brawl tournament
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
One of Carnegie Mellons 
Ultimate Frisbee teams, Mr. 
Yuk, hit the road and traveled 
to Versailles, Oh., for the Fall 
Brawl tournament earlier this 
month. The Fall Brawl was 
the ?rst tournament in which 
Carnegie Mellon split fully 
into an A team and a B team. 
Carnegie Mellons A team entered the Fall Brawl as the No. 
1 seed.
Mr. Yuk faced Case Western Reserve Universitys B 
team, Ohio Northern University, and Bluffton University, 
winning all three games on 
the ?rst tournament day. Mr. 
Yuk only surrendered seven 
points throughout all three 
games and was able to play a 
large portion of its roster on 
the day.
Mr. Yuk was not seriously 
tested until it faced Ohio State 
Universitys split squad team, 
which was largely composed 
of Ohio States A team. Mr. 
Yuk took a 105 lead, but 
let Ohio State crawl back to 
1110 before winning 1210. 
Sophomore Reid Almand 
scored the ?nal point with a 
nice layout grab off senior Ben 
McGrath.
The weather conditions on 
the second day of the tournament were rough, featuring 
20 miles per hour winds. 
Mr. Yuk had a ?rst round 
bye, with their ?rst game 
against Case Western Reserves A team. After Mr. Yuk 
started strong, scoring four 
times straight, it let Case 
Western come right back, 
losing 87. However, Mr. Yuk 
came back to win in the end 
with a score of 98.
Mr. Yuk faced a less challenging test in the semi?nals 
against the Wright State University squad. Mr. Yuk was 
victorious 95. This game featured entirely zone defense. 
In the ?nals, Mr. Yuk found 
itself facing Kenyon College 
in constant rain and strong 
winds, so the teams agreed to 
play to seven points. Mr. Yuk 
ended up breaking several 
times early to win 74. 
First-year Ross Ellison was 
the MVP of that game: He 
cleared two opponents for a 
Callahan, meaning he caught 
the disc in the other teams 
end-zone.
We came to the tournament with a few goals. We 
wanted to get our upperclassmen back and playing together after summer break, 
said electrical and computer 
engineering masters student 
Nipunn Koorapati. We wanted our new players to show 
off. And we wanted to win the 
tournament. Id say we did all 
three. 
Mr. Yuks next tournament will be on Nov. 18, and 
will be hosted at home. The 
tournament will be a round 
robin against the University 
of Pittsburgh (2012 National 
Champions), Ohio University 
(2012 Nationals Quali?ers), 
Ohio State University, and 
Pennsylvania State University. 
The games will be played in 
Gesling Stadium and on the 
Intramural Fields.
Courtesy of Billy Wood
Graduate student Nipunn Koorapati about to pull the disc.
SPORTS COMMENTARYGiants take a 30 lead in series 
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The long grind of the baseball season is ?nally coming to 
a close with the San Francisco 
Giants and the Detroit Tigers 
facing off in the World Series. 
Although this matchup may 
not have the glamour of a 
New York Yankees versus Los 
Angeles Dodgers battle, it is 
certainly not lacking in excitement. With three Cy Young 
winners (Pitchers Barry Zito 
and Tim Lincecum for the Giants and Justin Verlander for 
the Tigers), one MVP (Verlander), and a triple crown 
winner (Detroit third baseman Miguel Cabrera), this 
series is full of talent, both on 
the mound and at the plate.
Both teams have faced uphill battles during the regular 
season. The Giants had allstar out?elder Melky Cabrera 
suspended for testing positive 
for performance enhancing 
drugs during a random drug 
test. At the time, he was leading the league in batting and 
led the core of the lineup. 
Lincecum, who came into this 
season as the Giants unquestionable ace, had a terrible 
season ending with an earned 
run average over ?ve and being moved to the bullpen for 
part of the season and the 
playoffs.
The Tigers lost slugging 
catcher and ?rst baseman Victor Martinez for the year to an 
ACL tear in January, prompting the managers to sign perennial all-star ?rst baseman 
Prince Fielder. This signing 
forced Cabrera to move across 
the diamond to third base, 
causing previous starter Brandon Inge to be moved out of 
the lineup and weakening the 
Tigers defensively.
While each team needed 
all ?ve games to make it out of 
its divisional series, the teams 
performance in the league 
championship series could 
not have been more different. 
The Tigers easily dispatched 
the slumping Yankees, sweeping them in four games to 
clinch the American League 
Pennant. The Giants, on the 
other hand, quickly fell behind 31 to the St. Louis Cardinals and were forced to win 
three straight games to move 
on. While the Tigers were at 
home resting, Giants players 
were ?ghting for their lives 
and, in the process, gaining 
momentum and con?dence.
In Game 1 last Wednesday, the Tigers thought they 
had a sure?re win with Verlander matching up against 
Zito, who has struggled since 
signing long term in San Francisco back in 2006. But Zito, 
with his array of excellent offspeed pitches, was the dominant pitcher, giving up only 
one run in ?ve-and-two-thirds 
innings. Meanwhile, Verlander struggled, giving up ?ve 
runs in only four innings, as 
San Francisco cruised to a 
83 victory. Giants third baseman Pablo Sandoval had the 
game of his life, hitting three 
home runs in his ?rst three at 
bats. He is the fourth player 
in World Series history to 
accomplish this feat.
Game 2 on Thursday appeared to be another win on 
paper for the Tigers, with 
struggling Giants pitcher 
Madison Bumgarner facing 
off against the Tigers Doug 
Fister. While both pitchers 
took shut outs into the seventh inning, the Giants again 
pulled out a 20 victory, scoring on a double play in the 
seventh and a Hunter Pence 
sacri?ce ?y in the eighth.
When the series moved 
from San Francisco to Detroit 
for Game 3 on Saturday, the 
Tigers hoped that the ridiculous luck that had been following the Giants would stay 
in the bay. Unfortunately for 
Detroit, the Giants pitching 
staff shut down the Tigers 
bats once again as San Francisco cruised to a 20 victory 
behind starter Ryan Vogelsong and relievers Lincecum 
and Sergio Romo. The Tigers 
were not without chances, 
but their struggling offense 
simply could not capitalize on 
their opportunities.
Overall, the Giants have 
both the momentum and the 
pitching matchups the rest of 
the way to close out the series 
after taking their commanding 30 series lead. Unless the 
Tigers can make history and 
win the next four games, San 
Francisco is going to win its 
second World Series in three 
years.
GABRIELLE WEST
Junior Staffwriter
Over the weekend, the Tartans traveled to Alliance, Oh., 
to play in a tri-match hosted 
by Mt. Union University. The 
Tartans ?nished the tournament with a 11 record after 
playing the No. 10 Raiders of 
Mt. Union and the Student 
Princesses of Heidelberg University. The Tartans overall 
record now stands at 1416.
Carnegie Mellon opened 
the weekend with Mt. Union 
as its ?rst opponent. The 
game was hard-fought, but 
the Raiders came out on top 
and won in three games. The 
scores of the three games 
were 2325, 2325, and 15
25, respectively.
The second match played 
by the Tartans was against 
Heidelberg University, which 
resulted in a Tartan victory. 
The match went to ?ve 
games, where the Tartans 
won the ?rst (2522), third 
(2725), and ?fth (1513). 
The offense was led by 
sophomore right side hitter Ali Celentano, who had 
22 kills; junior outside hitter Senna Parsa, who had 16 
kills; and junior outside hitter 
Rachel Miller, with 13 kills. 
The defensive highlight of 
the match came from junior 
libero Ali Nichols, who had 25 
digs.
We played as a team and 
worked really hard to focus 
on every point, said senior 
defensive specialist Kasey LaMothe.
The Tartans have concluded their regular season play. 
The volleyball team will head 
to Atlanta, Ga., next week to 
play Case Western Reserve 
University in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Tournament Championships.
As a senior, it will be LaMothes last game in her 
career as a Tartan. Of it, LaMothe said, I hope to make it 
a game worth remembering.
Volleyball splits two games
File Photo by Jonathan Carreon
No. 13 sophomore right side hitter Ali Celentano leads the Tartans with an average of three kills per game.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  October 29, 2012
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans lost a lowscoring bout in St. Louis on 
Saturday to the Washington 
University in St. Louis Bears, 
253. The loss brings the Tartans to 53 on the season and 
the Bears to 35. 
Despite the loss, junior 
wide receiver Tim Kikta 
moved within 63 yards of the 
Carnegie Mellon single-season receiving yards record. 
He tallied 56 receiving yards 
against the Bears. 
Tim is one of the hardest 
working guys on the team. 
Him and [junior quarterback] 
Rob [Kalkstein] worked hard 
all summer to establish a 
strong connection, said senior running back Jake Nardone. Hes always been a 
guy who worked hard for all 
the right reasons.
Offensively, the Tartans 
struggled to get anything going all game. Kalkstein completed 16 of 30 passes for 128 
yards and failed to ?nd the 
end zone. Additionally, the 
Tartans only rushed for 98 
yards, with ?rst-year running 
back Troy Witt leading the 
way with 47 yards.
On the bright side, the 
Carnegie Mellon defense 
looked sharp, holding the 
Bears to just 15 points and 
328 total yards. Sophomore 
safety Shae Sealey and senior outside linebacker Owen 
Parker each had an interception as well.
Unfortunately, the offense 
could not capitalize on the 
stellar defense.
The Tartans average 219.6 
passing yards per game, and 
the run game has averaged 
188.2 yards per game. But 
the Bears defense really sti?ed the Tartans offense, as 
their output was subpar on 
Saturday.
The Bears defensive line 
put pressure on Kalkstein 
throughout the game, sacking him four times for a total 
of 18 yards lost. The Bears junior defensive lineman Seth 
Wight had two of the four 
sacks. Additionally, the Bears 
accumulated nine tackles for 
a total of 25 yards lost.
This is the Tartans second 
consecutive loss, and their 
third loss in their last four 
games after starting the season 40.
The Tartans look to regain 
momentum this Saturday in 
their home game against the 
University of Chicago.
Kikta approaches Tartan record in loss to Bears
File photo by Kelsey Scott
The Tartans defense limited the Bears offense to just 15 points, but their offense could not put together enough scores to capture the victory.
ABBY SMITH
Junior Staffwriter
New to the Carnegie Mellon womens tennis team is 
the fun and fearless ?rst-year 
Elizabeth Martin, hailing from 
St. Simons Island, Ga. Since 
the beginning of the season, 
Martin has consistently been 
one of the top players on the 
team, in spite of her transition 
into college life.
Ive been pleased with my 
performance and my teams 
performance so far this season. Even though college tennis is more pressure than high 
school, I think Ive adjusted 
well, Martin said. I really 
love playing for the team.
In the Carnegie Mellon Invitational last month, Martin 
paired with sophomore Jana 
Motie to defeat Duquesne 
University 85 and won her 
singles match 82. Her dominance continued into the ITA 
Regional, where she was originally ninth-ranked and advanced to a highly contested 
championship match against 
sophomore Megan Buell of 
Washington & Lee University.
In addition to her strong 
singles matches, Martin 
paired with sophomore Bryn 
Raschke to defeat senior Sallie Grif?n and sophomore Allison Hupalo of Washington & 
Lee 82 in the quarter?nals. 
The pair then dropped the 
semi?nal match to Buell and 
junior Claire Cahill of Washington & Lee in a tightly contested 86 match.
Her passionate tennis playing has not gone unnoticed by 
her teammates. Raschke described Martin as the ideal 
partner, who always keeps the 
atmosphere fun on the team.
Elizabeth was really fun 
to play with, she said. We 
laughed and joked a lot, which 
is one of the reasons I love 
doubles, so it was great having a partner who was really 
enjoying herself. Shes so fun, 
and the way she chooses to 
end points by whacking her 
backhand for winners was 
awesome. She was always 
willing to try something new. 
ITAs really shown how solid 
of a player Elizabeth is.
The admiration seems to 
be mutual, as Martin said that 
she decided to come to Carnegie Mellon because of the 
close-knit atmosphere of 
the 11-member team.
While we always are 
tough in competition, we love 
to have fun and joke with 
each other, Martin said. Our 
group text messages always 
make me giggle.
Along with her laughs 
come her tennis aspirations; 
Martin hopes to win a national title as either an individual 
or a team during her college 
career. An NCAA Division III 
championship would be absolutely incredible, Martin 
said.
Elizabeth has been a 
great young addition to our 
roster. She brings a positive 
and hard-working attitude to 
practice every day, and I expect an excellent rookie season from her, assistant coach 
Mike Belmonte said.
Martin is not only serious 
about her tennis playing; she 
has high expectations regarding her schoolwork as well. 
Currently a decision science 
major, she hopes to go to 
medical school to become an 
allergist.
I ?nd the immune system 
fascinating, Martin said. I 
know, Im so weird.
With a full course load, 
Martin is the ?rst to say, Its 
so much work. But, always 
keeping a smile on her face, 
she said my favorite class is 
chemistry when I get extra 
credit.
The tennis season will pick 
up again in February, where a 
bubbly Martin looks forward 
to representing the Carnegie 
Mellon team and something 
other than myself. I feel serious and committed when I 
[put on] that Tartan uniform. 
And I dont like to lose while 
wearing it.
ATHLETE PROFILE
Elizabeth Martin brings fresh talent to the tennis team
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
First-year Elizabeth Martin placed second in ITA Southeast Regional Tournament.
Swimming and Diving competes in ?rst meet of the season
        File photo by Jennifer Coloma 
The mens team took second and third in both the individual 100-yard and 200-yard breaststrokes. 
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
The mens and womens 
swimming and diving teams 
put together excellent performances to open their seasons. 
The mens team won three of 
four races, and the womens 
team won all four at the University Athletic Association 
(UAA) Invite this past Friday 
and Saturday.
This weekend was a pretty good weekend, being our 
?rst meet and all. It was a long 
weekend and the team had 
somewhat of a slow start, but 
we were able to ?nish strong 
as a team, sophomore Cole 
Um said. Overall the meet 
de?nitely helped bring the 
team closer together.
In the mens 200-yard 
medley relay, sophomores 
Anton Razanav and Um and 
juniors Terrence Wong and 
Eddie Sears ?nished second 
with a time of 1:37.86.
Razanav also took second 
in the 100-meter backstroke 
with a time of 54.41.
Senior Brandon Yee won 
?rst place in the 200-yard 
butter?y, and sophomore David Campbell took third. Firstyear Adam Pinson took ?fth in 
the same event.
The mens swimmers were 
consistently top-three ?nishers throughout the UAA Invite. In the 500-yard freestyle 
the Tartans grabbed second 
through ?fth place, with ?rstyear Steven Geier placing second with a time of 4:49.99.
On the womens team, junior Soleil Phan led the Tartans with three individual victories on Saturday.
Phan took ?rst in the 200-
yard freestyle, the 100-yard 
freestyle, and the 400-yard 
IM. Her times were 1:56.38, 
54.41, and 4:40.03, respectively. Additionally, she took 
?rst place twice in team 
events. She was on the team 
that placed ?rst in the 400-
yard medley relay, along with 
?rst-years Kira Singhaus, Felicia Wang, and Shieri Suzuka.
Phan was also on the squad 
that won the 200-yard medley 
relay, with Singhaus, Wang, 
and senior Breanna Stillo.
Singhaus was the victor in 
the 100-yard backstroke with 
a time of 1:00.43 and ?nished 
second in the 200-yard backstroke, losing only by 0.38 
seconds.
We had some amazing 
swims, and we are doing great 
for this point in the season, 
especially with a huge proportion of our team being new to 
the team and even new to the 
sport, sophomore Wendy Liu 
said.
First-year Alicia Iott ?nished ninth for the Tartans in 
a diving event, scoring 134.20 
points in the one-meter board 
event.
The mens and womens 
teams will compete again 
against Clarion University on 
Saturday at home. The meet 
begins at 11 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Reefer Madness
ScotchnSoda appeals to a college-age 
audience with this hilarious show  B6
10.29.12 Volume 107, Issue 9
Into the Woods
The School of Music transports viewers 
to an artfully crafted fairy-tale land  B5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Lots of scary stories unfold in this weeks 
comics. 
8Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about how to celebrate 
Halloween the right way.
4
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jos Lopez
5
46
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about mixed 
messages and cheap Halloween costumes.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Prose reading
The School of Music performs an enchanting 
rendition of the Stephen Sondheim musical.
3
RL Grime
Popular trap DJ RL Grime plays a captivating 
and bass-heavy set in Rangos Hall.
4
Into the Woods
Pocketful of Prose engages diverse panelists 
in a thoughtful discussion of fiction.
5
Reefer Madness
ScotchnSoda puts on a ludicrous and 
entertaining production for a college crowd.
6
Did You Know?
Did you know that a pants-less runner was 
spotted in Schenley Park 25 years ago?
6
Puzzles
Test your skills with this weeks sudoku and 
jigsaw sudoku puzzles.
7
Horrorscopes
Your worst nightmares as seen in the stars. 
Heed the warnings of tomorrow or be damned. 
10
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh this week.
11

---------------------------------------------------

literature
pillbox 10.29.123
Writers read diverse prose
Pocketful of Prose presents engaging panel discussion
Looking at the panel members at the Pocketful of 
Prose reading and discussion last Thursday in the 
Steinberg Auditorium, one immediately noticed the 
differences between the three writers sitting at the 
table.
Amina Gautier, a ?ction writer and winner of the 
Flannery OConnor Award for Short Fiction, sat at 
one end, looking polished and poised in a pencil 
dress. Kim Dana Kupperman, author of the awardwinning essay collection I Just Lately Started Buying 
Wings, relaxed at the other end, swaddled in long, 
?owing layers. Between them sat Stewart ONan  
proli?c novelist, Pittsburgh resident, and moderator 
for the panel  wearing a worn-looking Pirates hat 
and chatting cheerily with audience members.
As it turned out, the writers and their works were as 
different from each other as their appearances would 
suggest, making for an interesting reading and an 
engaging panel discussion.
After associate professor of English Jane McCafferty 
brie?y introduced the speakers, ONan began the 
evening by reading from The Night Country, in 
which two teenagers grapple with their lives after 
surviving a car crash that killed three of their friends. 
The novel, which ONan dedicated to Ray Bradbury, 
is narrated from the ghostly perspective of one of the 
dead friends; its ?tting, then, that the writing style 
swirls dreamily as the narrator swoops through the 
suburban town and eventually makes his way back 
to the scene of the accident to recall it.
Kupperman followed by reading an essay called 
Tell Me How Long the Trains Been Gone: A Letter 
to James Baldwin on the 25th Anniversary of His 
Passing. The essay, which she recently wrote for 
submission to the Hunger Mountain literary journal, 
addresses everything from environmentalism to 
racism, from American imperialism to this months 
presidential debates. Although the essay is loosely 
tied together around a train ride she takes from New 
York to Pennsylvania, it mostly feels didactic and 
heavy-handed as it lists off the authors opinions.
Gautier, who received both her bachelors and 
masters degrees in four years at Stanford University 
and is now an associate professor at DePaul 
University, then read Push, a short story from 
her book At-Risk. In the story, a young girl at an 
overcrowded inner-city elementary school is forced 
by her teacher to re?ect on the reasons why she 
picks on a fellow student. Push takes a narrow slice 
of time and uses it to give a lovely, lyrical glimpse 
into a young girls life.
Afterward, ONan led the panel discussion, during 
which the speakers delved into conversations on the 
short story format, the distinction between literary 
?ction and genre ?ction, and the ways that authors 
can play with genre conventions.
The writers differences worked to the discussions 
advantage: All of the writers were intelligent and 
well versed in literature, yet all had very different 
perspectives and opinions. The result was a lively 
and interesting conversation. ONan, in particular, 
made for a great moderator: Whenever Kupperman 
began to dominate the conversation, he would gently 
ease it back on track. Even though the conversation 
could have easily drifted off in an intellectually 
inaccessible direction, ONans down-to-earth 
approach kept the discussion engaging for the 
audience.
The conversation was interesting enough that 
an hour and a half easily ?ew by. The discussion 
could have continued on, but McCafferty regretfully 
announced that she would have to end the 
discussion, as it was getting late and there was 
pizza waiting in the Gladys Schmitt Creative Writing 
Center. The small audience clapped loudly for the 
panelists, and trundled up the stairs to wrap up an 
evening of great writing and great conversation.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Ive been hanging out with 
this girl quite a bit lately. 
I want to go out with her, 
but she treats me like one 
of her girlfriends. Ill feel 
like Im making progress, 
but then shell mention 
some dude shes into who 
isnt me. I thought I made 
my intentions clear, but I 
guess not. What should 
my next move be?
Thanks,
Girl Acquaintance Largely 
Platonic, Amour Lacking
Dear GAL PAL,
If I were a lesser advice 
columnist, Id talk to you 
about how youve been 
forced into the friend zone. 
Lucky for you, Im not. See, 
thats just something guys 
(and a few girls) say so they 
can blame all their problems 
on women. You dont want 
to go out with me? Youre 
just emotionally manipulating 
me to make yourself feel 
better! Just stop it, guys; 
youre making us all look 
bad.
You say youve made 
your intentions clear, but 
maybe you havent. Try 
to see if shes into you. 
Although, frankly, it sounds 
to me like shes not. If 
youre unconvinced, then 
you could explicitly ask her 
out on a date. Looks like 
all youve done is make a 
new friend. How horrible. I 
know, its surprising, but you 
can be friends with women 
without trying to date them. 
Youre not in middle school 
anymore. Its cool to be 
friends with girls.
Lady friends make the 
best wingmen,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
I missed the partying last 
week, but I want to put 
together a Halloween 
costume for this week 
without buying anything. 
Do you have any tips for a 
cheap, simple, and clever 
costume?
Thanks,
Creative Outfit Sought 
Tonight, Uncomplicated 
Manufacturing 
Entertaining Disguise
Dear COSTUMED,
How much you like my 
costume ideas will depend 
on how much you like puns. 
If you hate them, then just 
go ahead and put on a scarf 
and go as a hipster, because 
youre lame and dont like 
awesome things like puns. 
But for my pun-loving 
brethren, I have plenty of 
ideas.
Get a raggedy costume, 
some safety pins, and a 
bunch of sponges. Pin them 
to the shirt. If anyone asks, 
youre self-absorbed. 
Wear a pair of sunglasses 
and carry around roses  a 
blind date. Have a bra and 
some spices? Make like an 
insecure middle-schooler 
and stuff! Youre a spice 
rack. Brown robe and a 
bag of Fritos? Chip monk. 
Cover a box of cereal in red 
paint and carry around a 
fake knife with some paint 
on it too. Youre a cereal 
killer. Ill stop now; Im sure 
your sides hurt from laughing 
so much. Thank me later.
Ha ha! Blind date,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About mixed messages and punny costumes

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 10.29.12
Paperhouse
On Halloween
Its that time of year again. Your Facebook is ?ooded with 
invitations to Halloween parties, slasher fests, pumpkin 
patch frolicking, nights of horror  the list goes on. Yet 
upon attending these events, you are overwhelmed with 
downright bad costumes and a lack of Halloween spirit.
Invitations to these events include descriptions that tell 
girls to be whatever they want, as long as they add the 
word slutty to the costume description. Now, Im all for 
expressing yourself, but what happened to good, clean 
Halloween fun that focused on ghouls, goblins, and witches 
instead of sexy nurses, teachers, and police of?cers?
This past week, I went to an event that embodied my 
idealized image of Halloween. Tucked away in Lawrenceville, 
Arsenal Bowling Lanes hosts a weekly college night on 
Tuesdays, complete with cheap bowling, booze, and a live 
band. This week, the bowling alley was decked out with 
skeletons, cobwebs, and the usual Halloween fare. The red 
velvet walls, the skeletons atop the alleyways, and the live 
band made for a great evening.
The band, aptly called The Graveyard Rockers, played 
psychobilly and surf rock tunes focused on zombies, 
Frankenstein, and all your favorite monsters. The tonguein-cheek references to science ?ction, horror, violence, and 
sex were quite a relief from the bevy of electronic dance 
music Id grown accustomed to hearing during Halloween 
parties.
As soon as Thanksgiving comes, our ears will be assaulted 
with Christmas music; why isnt this the case with 
Halloween music? If you dig around, youll ?nd that there 
are some great Halloween anthems out there that bring 
together the dark, fun, and ultimately over-sexualized 
aspects of Halloween. Take a break from your usual playlists 
and crank up some psychobilly. I would recommend you 
start with the compilations Halloween Hootenanny and 
Halloween A Go-Go.
Alex Price | Special to The Tartan
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
The Dirty Projectors  Swing Lo Magellan
Dinosaur Jr.  Bet on Sky
Dum Dum Girls  End of Daze EP
Animal Collective  Centipede Hz.
David Byrne & St. Vincent  Love This Giant
Thee Oh Sees  Putri?ers II EP
How to Dress Well  Total Loss
Hot Chip  In Our Heads
Flight Facilities  Singles EP
Bob Dylan  Tempest
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
RL Grime hypnotizes crowd
AB concert features excellent music, lacks Halloween spirit
AB Coffeehouses annual Halloween dance party 
featured electronic hip-hop artist RL Grime along 
with Sensitivity and Naan Naan, a DJ duo composed 
of senior business administration major and WRCT 
general manager Alex Price and School of Art 
alumnus and WRCT DJ Naeem Martinez-White. 
Despite taking some time to start, both the Carnegie 
Mellon DJ duo and RL Grime were successful in 
bringing Rangos to life.
This years party took place in Rangos Hall on 
Friday night and lasted from 8 p.m. to a bit after 
the planned 11 p.m. The original program featured 
L.A.-based glitch-hop DJ Shlohmo to perform with 
RL Grime, but Shlohmo cancelled his appearance in 
advance of Fridays concert. 
The party was free with Carnegie Mellon student 
ID and $10 without, but a quick look in Rangos 
con?rmed that almost all attendees were students. 
Although the party was Halloween-themed, 
attempts to put this into effect were somewhat 
weak. A plastic skull ?lled with candy was the only 
sign of the holiday in sight.
After opening sets by DJ Salem (sophomore 
computer science major Salem Hilal) and DJ ReBase 
(junior information systems major Steve McQuaid), 
Sensitivity and Naan Naan presented back-to-back 
sets of deep, enchanting house music, occasionally 
lightened with a touch of more upbeat techno 
rhythms. The DJ set was accompanied by a truly 
mesmerizing laser show consisting of multicolored 
beams that shot through Rangos and danced around 
on the back wall to the rhythm of the techno house 
beats. The DJs themselves also contributed to the 
Halloween-based theme of the evening by sporting 
unidenti?able yet intimidating masks throughout 
their set.
Unfortunately, the ?rst set wasnt attended by many 
people. Through the ?rst few songs, the dance ?oor 
was almost entirely empty and the few people that 
had already arrived lingered in the corners of the 
ballroom that the stage lights didnt reach. However, 
this was not representative of the quality of the duos 
music, who put together an amazing show overall. 
The quality of the show was con?rmed toward the 
end of the set, when the dance ?oor was occupied 
by more than 30 students, zombies, a mosh pit, and 
even a few Japanese anime characters.
Sensitivity and Naan Naan handed the stage over 
to RL Grime around 9:30 p.m. The Los Angelesbased DJ is known for his innovative approach to 
electronic music, marrying conventional electronic 
dance music with bass-driven hip-hop, a style often 
described as trap. Indeed, a change in frequency 
was obvious when RL Grime took the stage: His 
musics gradual transformation in beats, culminating 
in ?oor-vibrating bass tones, was reminiscent of 
dubstep drops.
However, RL Grimes music went a bit further than 
simple dubstep wobble. Drops were followed by 
loops from hip-hop songs with ampli?ed bass, and 
beats were more disjointed. His music was more 
successful than the ?rst set in bringing the audience 
to life, but this was also due to the fact that the 
audience had grown by this time. The musical 
experience could have only been ampli?ed by a 
better sound system, which may have let listeners 
feel the musics bass to its full extent.
RL Grime put on a great set: He controlled the 
crowd, making it hold its collective breath in 
anticipation of an arriving bass drop and completely 
let go in an animalistic fashion once the bass had 
spread. The quality of music provided by Sensitivity 
and Naan Naan and RL Grime in this years 
Halloween party was, without question, impeccable.
The party as a whole, however, could have 
been taken out of the typical concert mold. As a 
Halloween party and not simply a show, more effort 
toward the nonmusical aspects of the evening 
would have made Friday night a true Halloween 
experience. Such effort would not only have made 
the event more of an actual party than solely a 
concert, but it also might have attracted a larger 
audience.
Su Baykal | Junior Staffwriter
Jennifer Coloma | Operations Manager
DJ Salem contributed to the shows first opener.

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 10.29.125
Once upon a time, the Carnegie Mellon School of Music 
whisked audiences into a magical show that twisted 
traditional fairy tales into a new story. This show, 
Stephen Sondheims Into the Woods, was presented last 
Thursday through Sunday in the Philip Chosky Theater 
in the Purnell Center for the Arts.
As always, the universitys talented students gave an 
amazing performance. Taking place during National 
Opera Week, the show went above and beyond the call 
of duty, relying not just on plot to draw viewers in.
Before the story was able to engage the audience, the 
set and costumes had already blown minds across 
the theater. The staging went far beyond the sets of 
many professional productions that theater-goers pay 
more than $80 to attend. Dominic Missimi, the visiting 
director and former director of musical theater at 
Northwestern University, chose to set the show in an 
attic, stuffed full with antique artifacts around which the 
story twisted and twined.
Rather than being over dramatic and taking away from 
the story as some wardrobes tend to do, the costumes 
complemented the story and characters, but remained 
visually interesting at the same time. The overall effect 
was a veritable feast for the eyes to enjoy while the 
ears were simply ringing with the skilled voices of the 
students.
The basic idea behind the musicals genius plot is that 
theres more to those beloved fairy tales than what we 
learned as children. The more generic characters of the 
baker (junior vocal performance major James Alexander) 
and his wife (junior vocal performance major Chloe 
Holgate) were joined by characters from childhood 
favorites: Cinderella, played by vocally angelic junior 
vocal performance and psychology double major Chelsea 
Ritenour; Jack from Jack in the Beanstalk, played by 
somehow simultaneously obnoxious and charming 
junior vocal performance major Nigel Rowe; and Little 
Red Riding Hood, played by junior vocal performance 
major Hannah Marks. These characters all recklessly 
make wishes that they believe will make them happier 
in the end, and the show describes their journey to the 
ful?llment of their wishes.
Along the way, of course, there are many obstacles to 
overcome, each accompanied by award-winning songs 
and important lessons to be learned. All of these twists 
and turns are narrated by a mysterious man (junior 
music composition major Sean Salamon) and agitated 
by the glittering and captivating witch (junior vocal 
performance major Olivia Vadnais). 
Into the Woods includes all the elements of a classic 
fairy tale, with a few dark surprises and many magical 
moments. Who doesnt love a fairy tale reworked into 
something new and just as magical? When the costumes 
and staging are as tempting as a red poison apple and 
the voices and instrumentation are sweeter than a love 
song from Disney, you cant possibly go wrong.
This show was the hidden gem of the week here on 
campus. Cast as the diamond in the rough in the 
hullabaloo surrounding ScotchnSodas Reefer Madness, 
Into the Woods was a deliciously dark, whimsical, and 
thrilling ride through the fairy tales of childhood. Bravo, 
and may the cast members live happily ever after 
knowing that they performed a captivating tale.
Laura Scherb | Staffwriter
Into the Woods whisks audience away
Carnegie Mellon production borrows characters from classic childhood fairy tales
Jos Lopez | Junior Photographer
Jos Lopez | Junior Photographer
The characters of Into the Woods blame the narrator 
(junior music composition major Sean Salamon) for 
their troubles.
Little Red Riding Hood (junior vocal performance major Hannah Marks) questions her grandmothers strange, 
wolf-like appearance.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 10.29.12
Commie reefer queens want your kids.
Statements like this, painted on the set and often 
voiced by actors, were the driving satire behind 
ScotchnSodas ?rst production of the school 
year, Reefer Madness, which played last Thursday 
through Saturday in McConomy Auditorium.
The musical, based loosely on the 1936 propaganda 
exploitation ?lm Tell Your Children, is terribly silly. 
The script is awful. Its no Les Misrables  but its 
not supposed to be. In essence, Reefer is a political 
commentary on the ridiculousness of 30s drug 
policy and radical conservatives who believed that 
marijuana was a more debilitating and addictive 
drug than heroin. Indeed, Reefer could have focused 
on meth rather than on marijuana; it would make 
much more sense, but wouldnt be nearly as funny.
It makes one wonder what the makers of the 1936 
movie were using when they were ?lming  
considering the time period, probably cocaine.
Reefers ?rst-time director, sophomore electrical and 
computer engineering and creative writing double 
major Bradley Plaxen, chose a great production that 
naturally caters to a college crowd. It was de?nitely 
sloppy at some points; the stage blackouts seemed 
nearly random, and the ?nal scenes choreography 
had the actors practically tripping over each 
other. But the actors tangible enthusiasm and the 
bombastic musical numbers more than made up for 
any mishaps.
The audience would have lost interest without 
the enthralling opening number. The scenes 
choreography, the brainchild of sophomore design 
major Sam Ahmed, was the best in the entire show: 
The ensembles fantastic, marijuana-induced 
dancing engaged audience members early on, 
daring them to hope for more.
And more they did receive, although not right 
away. Protagonist Jimmy Harper (?rst-year Dietrich 
student Zach Stuckelman) had a frog in his throat 
until he smoked his ?rst joint, after which he sang 10 
times better. Interestingly enough, the opposite was 
true for his girlfriend, Mary Lane (?rst-year Dietrich 
student Emma Harger), who played her goody-twoshoes role well, but seemed stuck in that persona, 
even when she had to strip to her garters onstage 
and dominate unsuspecting marijuana dealer Ralph 
Wiley (sophomore vocal performance major Taylor 
Rawley).
While all the actors in Reefer Madness had 
substantial talent, there are a few who shined 
above the rest. Senior economics and statistics 
and decision science double major Will Weiner had 
sobering comments and straight-arrow acting that 
kept the show grounded. Rawley expertly played his 
college reefer junkie role, dominating the stage with 
his high-pitched giggling and lascivious nature.
Possibly the most outstanding presence was 
sophomore vocal performance major Joanna Latini 
as the con?icted Mae Coleman, who owns the reefer 
den run by her husband, Jack Perry (junior math 
major Billy Veer). Unable to choose between her 
addiction and her morals, she is the only character 
with whom the audience was able to empathize, and 
she navigates her frequent transitions from guilty 
addict to comic reinforcement seamlessly. Veer is a 
great actor, but dancing was his forte, especially his 
duo with Placard Girl (?rst-year computer science 
major Gail Wilson, also the productions dance 
captain). Other choreography highlights included 
Murder!, the reprise of Down at the Ol Five and 
Dime, and Listen to Jesus, Jimmy.
Its hard to imagine Reefer Madness succeeding 
anywhere but on a college campus, and it ?t right 
in at Carnegie Mellon. While probably not the best 
production ScotchnSoda has put together, it was 
ludicrously entertaining and should have been a 
required Halloween festivity for every student.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Hide your kids, hide your pot
ScotchnSoda runs wild with satire in Reefer Madness
The cast of Reefer Madness breaks into 
marijuana-induced dancing.
Courtesy of Lorena Lopez
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Nov. 14, 1912
The new Camera Club is on the 
lookout for new members on both the 
faculty and staff. The fairly unstructured 
club will focus on sharing innovations, 
techniques, and other information 
about the field among members. The 
school already has dark rooms, so the 
club hopes to utilize these spaces to 
develop prints and larger projects.
50years ago
Nov. 7, 1962
The cross country team finishes the 
season undefeated for the first time 
in three years. Team captain Mike 
Campbell finishes the last race in first 
place at Schenley Park. Since only one 
member will be graduating, the team 
is confident about the next season. 
Campbell is excited to finish his senior 
year undefeated.
25years ago
Oct. 27, 1987
A string of odd criminal behavior takes 
up an entire page of news. Thieves 
climbed into a Mudge House bedroom 
window to steal a television. Expensive 
audio equipment went missing from 
dormitories and campus buildings. 
Most bizarre of all, a runner was 
spotted in Schenley Park wearing only 
a dress shirt and sport coat.
10years ago
Oct. 28, 2002
After three years and 65 columns, 
Sean says his heart is no longer in 
the work. This headline marks the 
departure of a weekly editorial writer. 
Sean explains that his readers take 
his opinions out of context, citing the 
time he wrote about the legalization 
of marijuana and received four phone 
calls that week asking for pot.
5years ago
Oct. 29, 2007
The floors of Hunt Library are ranked 
from best to worst. In first place is the 
fourth floor, offering the quietness of 
the third floor without the stuffiness, 
and toted as the prettiest floor in the 
building. The second floor takes last 
place because of the noisy groups and 
lack of outlets.
1year ago
Oct. 24, 2011
Five Alumni Achievement Awards are 
announced during Cilidh Weekend. 
The winners are all male and include 
two art majors, two Tepper graduates, 
and an electrical and computer 
engineering major with bachelors, 
masters, and doctoral degrees.

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.29.127
Solutions from Oct. 15, 2012
CrosswordEasy DifficultyVery Hard Difficulty
Jigsaw Sudoku Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/Jigsaw Sudoku courtesy of www.krazydad.com/jigsawsudoku
In addition to normal sudoku rules, each jigsaw shape must 
also contain all numbers 1 to 9. 

---------------------------------------------------

8comics
pillbox 10.29.12
  Online at www.nickmarino.net
Stick Cats #8 by Nick Marino & Katie Henderson
nickmarino@gmail.com
sohmer@leasticoulddo.com
  Online at www.licd.com and www.lfgcomics.com
jorge@phdcomics.com
PhD Comics by Jorge Cham

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.29.129
  
  Name:
  Andrew ID:
Little Duck by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Ghost of Video Games Past by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.com
Name the monsters described below:
1. Peppershakers gone haywire (Doctor Who):
2. Men who want to steal your heart (Buffy the Vampire 
Slayer):
3. Local disease-ridden creature that might be able to 
help humanity (The X-Files):
4. You wont believe your Bulbus oculi (Monsters, Inc.):
Place this entry in the folder on The Tartans office door (UC 
314) before Saturday at 3 p.m. The winner will be announced 
on The Tartan Facebook page next Monday.
Answer the trivia questions below and be entered to win a 
prize so awesome its scary. 
Halloween Trivia Contest

---------------------------------------------------

10Horrorscopes
pillbox 10.29.12
1. Begin
2. More healthy
3. From the beginning: Lat.
4. Shad delicacy
5. Own
6. Summits of buildings
7. Actress Sommer
8. One of the Baldwins
9. Short lyric poem
10. Irritable
11. Quench
12. Fuel transport
13. _____ bleu!
22. According to
23. Work without ____
25. Wimp
28. Jalopy
29. Dynamic start?
30. Youve got mail co.
31. Execs degree
32. Direct a gun
33. Sawbucks
34. Junior
35. At all
36. Grazing spot
38. Republic in SW Europe
39. Boxer Oscar ____ Hoya
41. Up ____ good
42. Domain
43. People of courage
44. The French word for no
45. Songwriters org.
46. Roman general
47. Anglers basket
48. Distance runner
49. Redbreast
50. Confusion
51. Mezzo-soprano Marilyn
53. The ____ Valley is a Californian 
wineland
54. Rickys portrayer
59. Bambis aunt
 1. Acute
 6. 500 sheets
10. General ____ chicken
14. Forbidden
15. Leaf with Sanskrit writing?
16. East of Eden director Kazan
17. Healing plants
18. Approved
19. Apply powder to oneself
20. Gun, as an engine
21. Person who breaks open safes
24. Plastering tools
26. Be innate
27. G8 nation
28. Cautious
30. Compile, accumulate
33. Pay for
34. Gal of song
37. Kimono ties
38. Bit of wisdom
39. Completed
40. Flight
41. Scout master?
42. Nairobis nation
43. Stallion, e.g.
44. Naught
45. Upward slope
48. Sovereign
52. Encircling
55. So thats it!
56. 1963 role for Liz
57. Scottish Celt
58. Prohibit
60. Away from the wind
61. Basilica area
62. Pungent bulb
63. Buddies
64. Den of wild animals and 
dragons
65. The house of a parson
ACROSSDOWN
Horrorscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Two words: dry campus.
taurus
april 20may 20
Your hard work will pay off this semester and you shall be 
rewarded... with straight Bs.
gemini
may 21june 21
Facebook called with a full-time job offer  too bad you 
put the wrong phone number on your rsum.
cancer
june 22july 22
You poured your heart and soul into your last essay. When 
your professor gives you your essay back, instead of giving 
you a grade, the only thing he wrote on your paper is: 
TL;DR.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
The double life you have been living on Tumblr has been 
discovered. Dont worry; youre still a star in many peoples 
personal collections.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
You are the professors pet. Hooray! However, instead of 
being praised and showered with love or good fortune, you 
have been singled out to do even more work.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You were working in the lab late one night, when your 
eyes beheld an eerie sight. Your lab notebook, which 
you had tended to with care, had vanished. It was gone, 
disappeared into thin air.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
You arrive at The Exchange just in time to beat the 
lunchtime rush, only to find that it has been replaced by 
another branch of CulinArt.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Your adviser walks up behind you as youre bad-mouthing 
him or her. You go on and on, until he or she finally 
interjects. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You know that one kid in your major who is always being a 
pain in the butt? That person becomes your boss.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
No one around you has a sense of humor, and that makes 
your life sad and boring.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
The kid you argue with in your project group has a crush on 
you, and you two end up dating.
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 10.29.1211
MONDAY10.29.12
Matias del Campo. Carnegie Museum of Art Theater.
6 p.m.
Architect and head of Vienna-based architecture ?rm 
SPAN Matias del Campo will speak as part of this years 
School of Architecture lecture series.
Xavier Rudd. Carnegie Library Music Hall of Homestead 
(510 East 10th Ave.). 7:30 p.m.
Australian singer, songwriter, and multi-instrumentalist 
Xavier Rudd will perform.
TUESDAY10.30.12
Stomp. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
The internationally known eight-member percussion 
group will perform in Downtown. The show will run 
through Sunday. Tickets are available at trustarts.org.
Zombie Bowling Ball. Arsenal Lanes (212 44th St.). 
8 p.m.
Lawrencevilles Arsenal Lanes presents a night of spooky 
bowling, featuring surf rock group The Graveyard 
Rockers.
WEDNESDAY10.31.12
Club Cafes Halloween Hootenanny. Club Cafe 
(56 South 12th St.). 8 p.m.
Celebrate Halloween with Club Cafes ?rst annual 
Halloween Hootenanny, featuring Dog the Bounty Hunter 
Band, members of local band Triggers, local musician 
Caleb Pogyor, and more. Tickets are available at the door.
Shiny Toy Guns. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
American rock band Shiny Toy Guns will perform at Mr. 
Smalls Theatre with electronic music duo MNDR and 
Oklahoma-based band Colourmusic.
THURSDAY11.1.12
University of Pittsburgh Dance Ensemble presents: 
Momentum. Trees Hall Dance Studio. 7 p.m.
The University of Pittsburgh Dance Ensemble will perform 
its fall show Momentum on Thursday and Friday at 7 p.m.
More information is available at www.pittdanceensemble.
com.
FRIDAY11.2.12
Pandemic. brillobox. 9:30 p.m.
The monthly dance party continues, this time in memory 
of the DJs who have left Pandemic. Join the party for 
some balkan bounce, cumbia, bhangra, afrobeat, and 
more. This event is 21+.
SATURDAY11.3.12
A.D.D. Fest XV. The Mr. Roboto Project (5106 Penn 
Ave.). 7 p.m.
The A.D.D. Fest will feature 10 bands playing 10-minute 
sets. This is part of a full day of events, including a 
Pittsburgh punk history bike tour. More information is 
available at therobotoproject.org.
SUNDAY11.4.12
Bridging the Gap. Shadow Lounge. 9 p.m.
The monthly dance party attempts to bridge the gap 
between the citys electronic and hip-hop scenes by 
bringing the best local hip-hop and electronic DJs 
together. The event is 21+.
ONGOING
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit is 
guest-curated by Carnegie Mellon professor of art theory 
and criticism Hilary Robinson.
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world: the Olympic Sculpture Park (U.S.), Stiftung 
Insel Hombroich (Germany), Benesse Art Site Naoshima 
(Japan), Instituto Inhotim (Brazil), Jardn Botnico de 
Culiacn (Mexico), and Grand Traiano Art Complex (Italy).
UPCOMING
Chicago. Heinz Hall. Nov. 9 through Nov. 11.
The famous musical is coming to Pittsburgh  murder, 
adultery, and all. Chicago tells the story of Roxie Hart, a 
nightclub dancer who murders her lover after he threatens 
to leave her, and her desperate attempt to escape 
conviction. Tickets are available at trustarts.org.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Brand new luxury apartments! Avail. Jan. 
2013. 1 & 2BRs located at 238 Atwood St. 
Dishwasher, AC, in unit washer & dryer, high 
ceilings. Call Robb Real Estate Co. 412-682-
7622.

---------------------------------------------------

12feature
pillbox 10.29.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
Students carved pumpkins as part of Morewood E Towers second 
annual OkTOWERfest last Saturday afternoon.  The Halloween-themed 
festivities were open to all Carnegie Mellon students and included 
face painting, costuming, and apple bobbing.
OkTOWERfest.
