The Carnegie Tartan
Navy Reservists Urged 
To Register Promptly 
For 8-Week Courses
Although the College of Engineer
ing has offered special eight-week 
courses for the Navy and Marine 
Reservists who are to be called to 
active duty about July 1, so far not 
enough students have taken advan
tage of this opportunity to make the 
plan worth while. Therefore, all 
Navy and Marine Reservists who 
wish to take these courses are urged 
to see Professor Work, Assistant Di
rector of the College of Engineering, 
immediately.
Classes will start May 3 and will 
end on June 26; therefore, this pro
gram will be completed before the 
Reservists are called to active duty, 
and the courses in each of the sub
jects will cover a whole semesters 
work. Because the course will be 
concentrated into such a short pe
riod of time, no student will be able 
to carry more than two subjects. 
Full academic credit will be given 
for the program. The fees for the 
course will be $3.60 per unit.
The subejcts offered are Mathe
matics C-2, C-3, and C-4; Physics 
E-81 and E-82; Mechanics E-20, E-21, 
and E-22; and Chemistry E-102.
Ensign Larry Coulter, 
M40, Wins Air Medal
Ensign Larry Coulter, M40, has 
been awarded the Citation of the 
Air Medal, according to a release 
from the Navy Department. Ensign 
Coulter, who has been missing in 
the southwest Pacific since last Sep
tember, was praised by President 
Roosevelt for heroic action against 
Japanese forces.
In addition to active engagement: 
in the seizure of Noleni on August 
5, Ensign Coulter, during the initial 
battle of the Solomons, flew 56 hours 
in four days. On September 6 his 
plane, with the assistance of another 
patrol plane, attacked and probably 
destroyed a Jap four-engined bombPhoto by Lew KleinQueen Maddox and her Delt aides. Their float, which they carried in true 
Scheherezade fashion, won the prize at Mardi Gras.
SpsUtuj, GanniuaL--1943 
Let The Spirit of The Mardi Gras 
Reign Over Our CampusR. Doherty
My costume is limp and wilted. 
My mind is pleasantly filled with 
harem gals walking seductively and 
mountain boys feuding wildly 
through clouds of confetti. George 
Wald couldnt have been better and 
Reisacher couldnt have been pretRecess Interrupts Exams
Since the 1942-43 school year 
ends a month earlier than usual, 
Easter recess will be shortened to 
three days. Interrupting final ex
ams, it starts Friday, April 23, 
and ends the following Monday.
er. Five days later, during an at
tack on a seaplane tender, his plane 
was forced down at sea. He has not 
been heard from since.
While here at school, he was ac
tive in varsity tennis, track, and 
basketball. He won his wings and 
commission after an intensive flight 
training at the Jacksonville (Fla.) 
Naval Air Station,
Tickets Available For 
Radios Town Meeting
Town Meeting of the Air, one of 
the most famous open forums in 
America, is coming to Pittsburgh on 
April 29. The well-known radio 
program will be held on that even
ing at its usual time, 7:45 to 9:30 P. 
M., in Syria Mosque.
Carnegie Tech is fortunate, as 
tickets are being reserved for both 
students and members of the fac
ulty. Admission will be by ticket 
only; all requests must be sent to 
Mrs. U. Grant Miller, 31 Lebanon 
Hills Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. A selfaddressed stamped envelope must 
accompany the ticket request.
Speakers of national ind interna
tional importance will be selected 
by the Radio Division of Town Hall 
in New York to participate in the 
Pittsburgh program. George Denny 
will act as moderator. Opportuni
ties for Pittsburghers to Witness 
well-known radio programs are 
rather rare and as the available 
ticket supply is limited, anyone in
terested is urged to make his re
quest known immediately.
Blood Donors Get Buttons
Any person who did not receive 
a Red Cross button when he do
nated his blood during the blood 
drive may get one from Mrs. King 
in the Registrars Office.
You will not want to miss reading 
the guest editorial on page 3.
Photo by Lew Klein
BOB REISACHER
... of th ashcan brigade . . .
tier, so, Uncle Sam, take over. Im 
satisfied.
Did you see two Betas and their 
Gamma kids playing bridge in the 
middle of the floor? Course Becky 
bid one balloon and La Verne dou
bled; but that didnt make any differertce, because someone jitterbugged through the dummy before the 
game was over anyway. The Kap
pas were definitely on the swing 
shift as V for Veddy defense 
workers. And, pardon me, while I 
blusingly skip past the semi-dressed 
Kappa Sigs who have the loveliest 
legs, Ive ever seen barring Paul 
Berkowitz, whose ankles hung al
luringly from a modest bathing suit 
vintage 06.
Continued on page 8
Commencement 
Set for May 2nd
Dr. Kingsolving Speaks 
At Baccalaureate Service
For the second time during this 
school year, Carnegie Tech will hold 
a commencement. In previous 
years, the exercises have been held 
in Syria Mosque, but due to the ex
isting conditions at this time, this 
commencement will be held in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. The time is 
3:00 P. M., Sunday, May 2 and Dr. 
Herbert L. Spencer, President of 
P. C. W. will be the speaker.
On Saturday, May 1, the day be
fore commencement, the Presidents 
Reception and Baccalaureate will be 
given. The reception will be given 
to the graduating students and 
their families, while the Baccalau
reate will be held in the Music Hall 
at 8:00 oclock that evening. Speak
er for the Baccalaureate will be Dr. 
Arthur B. Kinsolving. His topic is 
not yet known.
Dr. Kinsolving, the son of a mis
sionary to Southern Brazil, lived 
there till 1906, when he returned to 
the United States with his family. 
From 1914 to 1917 he attended the 
University of Virginia, where he 
majored in philosophy and English 
He was commissioned a first lieuten
ant in the United States Army in 
1918 and was awarded the French 
Croix de Guerre.
By presidential appointment he 
was made Chaplain of the United 
States Military Academy at West 
Point from 1925 to 1930 and in 1930 
was reappointed. In 1939 he accept
ed the rectorship of the Calvary 
Episcopal Church in Pittsburgh. The 
honorary degree of Doctor of Divin
ity was conferred upon him in 1937 
by New York University. Dr. Kin
solving is well known to our stu
dents as he was guest speaker at the 
R. O. T. C. Armistice Assembly.
Easter Services Will 
Be Held Today at 11:30
Today at 11:30, in the Little Thea
ter, the Annual Easter Chapel will 
be held under the sponsorship of 
Sigma Alpha Iota and Phi Mu Al
pha, music honoraries.
The program for this Chapel 
service is as follows:
Organ Prelude..........Janet Stang, organist
Second Movement of the Double Violin
Concerto...................................Edward
Miller and Clifford Taylor, violin
ists; and Donald Wilkens, accompanist 
Womens Glee Club
Hymn 67
Adoramus Te....................................Pierling*
O Praise Ye the Lord.....................Arensky
Meditation..,.. .The Rev. John P. Stump 
Pastor, St. Andrews Lutheran Church
The Lords Prayer ....................... Mailotte
Recessional.........................Mens Glee Club
Hymn 74
Second Movement of D Minor String
Trio.......................................Mendelssohn
Marjorie Hill, violinist 
Janie Kalbfus, cellist 
Lucy Borelli, pianist 
Organ Postlude........Janet Stang, organist
Since this is the Easter season, it
is especially appropriate that the
student body attend this last chapel
of the current semester.
Vol. 36 No. 27 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943
dLt&ui A'unaUcU'iBill Jones Is Dead
We learned the hard way.
Have you read the guest editorial on page three by Norman Phillip 
Ross? He asks, Are we destined to be another lost generation?
NO! We emphatically answer. No! We still remember the last war 
the war to end warswe will not err again; my children shall not be 
called from college to answer to the sound of a bugle.
There is not a red-blooded American who would give a different an
swer. Yes, we learned the hard way, but it will not happen again. Today 
we are already laying our plans for winning the peace while we are still 
in the process of winning the war. Throughout the country organizations 
are being created which set up as their primary and only purpose to look 
ahead, and to look ahead for more than a year, for more than a decade 
for generations.
Saga of a planning group
Perhaps you may already have heard of the doings on a neighboring 
campus. A handful of ambitious students started it; they talked of post
war planning to their roommates, to their friends, to their professors, to 
editors, to business men, to radio announcers. Everyone was enthusiastic 
and all eagerly added to the growing momentum of the movement. Their 
number quickly increased to five times the original half dozen and this 
group of students, faculty members, and townspeople founded the Dart
mouth Council on Post-war Planning.
This was to be more than a group with a big-sounding name. They 
were not going to do a half-way job; they incorporated under state law as 
a non-profit organization. The university administration was more than 
willing to lend a hand. They gave the Council use of the auditorium, and 
once each week a crowd gathered to listen to talks given by members of 
the faculty and well-informed townspeople. At least once a month they im
ported some nationally known speaker; Norman Thomas spoke there. And 
they drew the crowds. A turnout of 2500 from the university and town 
residents was just average.
A radio official was a member of the group; and he produced a fifteen 
radio discussion each week. The people liked it, and they asked for more.
And all this took place without any bickering. There were differences 
in opinion as is natural, but every suggestion was given consideration. They 
upheld no platform; rather, they worked for a common purposeto stim
ulate thought, at first, of post-war planning, and to stimulate action later 
on.
This is the question:
Can we at Carnegie Tech organize and support a similar organization? 
There will in all probability be civilian students as well as army students 
here next semester. We know that our students are of the caliber to initi
ate such a movement. Do they not run their own student government? Did 
they not organize the S. W. A. C. on a moments notice? And have they not 
done an efficient job once they were started?
And who are more desrving to have a word in the planning of our fu
ture than the men who are going to fight that we may be allowed to plan it?
Our Treasurer of Student Council, Jim Boyce, says he is with us. Leo 
Fyer, the fire-engine of the S. W. A. C. says he is with us. I will guarantee 
you our uniformed colleagues will be with us. Can we count on you? Can 
we depend on you to make yourself heard? Now?
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan *
Curnegle Institute of Technology, Sckenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 8600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
TheCarhn gaitAeClra to After office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-Chief.....................................SC. 0704College Pmbltsbers Representative 
420 maoison avi. new York. n. y. Business Manager..............................BR. 4759
uTfEga t sadeaT  LOS wottis  pgc -dgcEfdEawwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
Entered si >ecoBl-lSM matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. Subscription Price SI .10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief........................................................................................................M. David Neuss
Business Manager............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Co-Managing Editors..........................................................................Ed Goldstein, Walt Darby
Hews Editor....................................................................................................................Louisa Saul
Features Editor.....................................................................................................Helena Aronson
Copy Editors.....................................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Personnel Manager.................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Sports Editor....................................................................................................... John Lindberg..
Staff Photographer.............................................................................................................Lew Klein
Sports Staff...................................................................................................Stu Lee, Bill Ferguson
Circulation Manager........................................................................................ Chester Feinberg
Business Staff: Martha Wagman, Joy Levinthal, Lawrence Schutzer, Charles Wagner. 
Junior Editors: Al Schneider, Marty Gross, Bill Kolb, Natalie Nathan, Geraldine
Racusin, Aron Beck, Marty Jacobs, Adeline Herlick, Dorothy Greiner.
Reporters: Norma Caplan, Iris Kwall, Lois Marks, Jean Norris, Lola Patton, Dorothy 
Rutkin, Alice Softs, Margee King, Marshall Nuremberg.
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill Jones has just graduated from 
agricultural college. He was ambiti
ous to put into action all that he 
had learned about conservation of 
soil, better breeding of cattle, ro
tating crops, because his dads farm 
was in pretty bad shape. When war 
came Bill enlisted.
Bill went to the Philippines and 
the little town where he was bil
leted was overrun by a horde of 
Japs. Bill fought as long as he 
could, and then under orders sur
rendered. They tied his hands be
hind him and three Japs rammed 
their bayonets into Bills guts.
This happened about the time you 
were telling the folks at your house 
that it was all darned nonsense to 
ration sugar because cake and candy 
were certainly no diet for soldiers.
Bill Jones is dead.
He was a soda jerker in a small 
town and when the bands blared 
and the flags fluttered, he signed 
up for the navy. They put him on 
a torpedo boat. He learned to wear 
his hat on the corner of his head, 
and to roll when he walked. Then 
his boat got into a scrap down in 
the south seas. Bill stood by his gun 
and laughed as he fired it. But a 
shell hit the deck beside Bill. When 
he tried to pull himself to his feet 
he saw that his right arm was in the 
scuppers five feet away. He reaOhed for his gun with his left hand, 
and then things went black. The list 
of the ship rolled a dead sailor into 
the scuppers where his dismember
ed arm lay. Its extended thumb 
touched the top of his nose, so that 
in death as in life, Bill was thumb
ing his nose at the Jap ship that got 
him.
This was the same day you were 
raising hell because they were ra
tioning gasoline, and for fear you 
couldn't go fishing every week-end 
last summer you hid four cans of 
gasoline in your garage.
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill was a boy who had inclina
tions for the ministry, but when the 
call came, Bill laid aside his Bible
and joined the marine corps. Bill 
wasnt much fun around the blanket 
where they were shooting craps and 
he was not so hot at the beer drink
ing contests in the jutes, but he 
earned his sergeants stripes before 
they sent his gang ashore in one of 
those new boats which land through 
the surf. The fist full of fighting 
fools charged a machine gun nest, 
and Bill had just taken careful aim 
and let go with a hand grenade 
when another machine gun caught 
him. Four bullets hit his head but 
a marine has four speeds forward 
and no reverse, and so Bill fell to
ward the enemy.
This was the afternoon when you 
were sitting at the golf club with 
your highball in your hand, telling 
the other three fellows in your four
some that if income taxes were not 
reduced, they were going to kill 
initiative in this country.
Bill Jones is dead.
Bill was an uneducated clam dig
ger on the New England coast, but 
he knew about boats. He had only 
one eye, and the uniformed ranks 
would not take him, so he shipped 
on a tanker. His ship was bringing 
oil up the coast when a German pig 
boat came up out of the slime and 
sent a torpedo into the hull amid
ships. The freighter burst into 
flames and Bill went over the side 
into the burning oil. When he came 
to the surface a machine gun was 
practicing on the bobbing heads. 
When the bullets hit Bills head, it 
burst open like a dropped egg. His 
charred bullet-ridden body sank be
neath the surface.
That was the night you were tell
ing the folks at your party this war 
is being run by a lot of old women 
in Washington, the most mis-managed mess you ever heard of.
Bill Jones is dead.
When God in His infinite kindness 
meets Bill Jones at heavens gate. 
He is going to say Well done, thou 
good and faithful servant!
What he is going to say to you 
God alone knows . . .
Notre Dame Scholastic.
Army-Civilian Activities Council Will Replace 
Student Council ]V^xt Term and For Duraton
On May 2nd, the present Student 
Council will cease to function for 
the duration and will be replaced 
by the Army-Civilian Activities 
Committee.
The plan, which was accepted by 
Council, was designed with but one 
thought in minda plan that will 
mean that activities will be resumed 
after the war on their present basis 
and will also provide that activities 
will not dwindle during the present 
emergency period.
Most of the womens activities 
will, of course, not be affected to 
any great extent. Nevertheless, 
Council is not trying to say which 
organizations will function. All ac
tivities which can gather a sufficient 
number of active members will con
tinue.
An important fact is that the 
Army-Civilian Activities Commit
tee, which is now being called ACAC will go into effect whether or 
not the Army is on campus by May 
2nd. When and if the Army does
arrive, a provision has been made in 
the plan for representatives of the 
Army on the Committee.
Representation on AC-AC will be 
composed as follows: Arts School, 
one representative; Margaret Morri
son, two representatives; Engineer
ing, one representative; Publica
tions, one representative; Athletics, 
one representative. The Army will 
have three representatives, select
ed in the manner decided by Coun
cil, when the Army shall start class
es. Additional representatives may 
be added as seen fit but the total 
number shall be limited to eleven, 
plus the administration representa
tive.
An administration co-ordinator 
appointed by the school will func
tion as chairman of the Council. He 
shall have no vote. From all indica
tions, Mr. A. J. Murphy, present ad
visor to Student Council, will hold 
this position. The constitution of 
the new committee is printed in full 
in the Council minutes on page five.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
"ANOTHER LOST GENERATION?
To Students and Faculty of Carnegie Institute of Technology:
Another Lost Generation? is the valedictory address delivered by 
Norman Phillip Ross at the Commencement of Brown University last 
spring. Mr. Ross makes a persuasive and eloquent plea to his contem
poraries to avoid the errors made by the generation which fought the first 
World War. Students and faculty will find his message a timely and val
uable one, and I urge that it be given thoughtful attention.
Mr. Rosss address is reprinted here by permission of the DELTA 
UPSILON QUARTERLY.
Robert E. Doherty.* * * *
WE SENIORS are going to war. Some of us have already gone, and 
now we leave, to go from America to the battlefields of Aus
tralia, of China, of Japan, of Africa, and of Europe. Some of us 
will never return.
With such a prospect before us, where can we find a faith and a hope? 
The question we face today was faced before by thousands of graduating 
students during the first World War. Their action and their subsequent 
fate should teach a lesson to those of us who do not return, a lesson which, 
for the guarantee of our future, the American future, we must not ignore. 
College seniors in 1917 faced the future with a lofty optimism and 
went to war with an idealistic fervor. They described their goal as a bet
ter world. The language of the crusade which led them to the battlefields 
of Europe glittered with such abstractions as sacrifice, glory, honor 
and noble death.
But in contrast with their pre-war idealism, their post-war attitude 
was striking and pathetic. They had lost so much of their faith and their 
ideals that they were later termed a Lost Generation, a generation 
of cynicism and despair.
Ernest Hemingway came back to say, I had seen nothing sacred, and 
the things that were glorious had no glory, and the sacrifices were like the 
stockyards at Chicago if nothing was done with the meat except to bury it. 
And Dalton Trumbo, in his prize-winning novel, Johnny Got His Gun, 
asserted, The words about noble death and sacred blood and honor and 
such are put into dead lips by grave robbers and fakes.
The revulsion of the whole generation was dramatized by Maxwell 
Anderson in his highly realistic play, What Price Glory. John Dos Passos 
and Richard Aldington and Archibald MacLeish and a host of others added 
their wailing notes to the funeral dirge.
The poets and the playwrights and the novelists were joined by the 
critics and the ojurnalists and the historians. G. H. Grattan and Walter 
Millis, in Why We Fought and in Road to War, produced historical tracts 
of bitter disillusionment.
With less self consciousness than the intellectuals, average Americans 
generally turned their backs on idealism and plunged into the materialism 
of the 20s. So strongly did they express in action what the intellectuals 
were saying in words that we cannot say the writers of the Lost Genera
tion were the positive cause for American behavior in this decide.
Butand this is the point to be rememberedif the intellectual lead
ers had not let themselves be stripped of their ideals, they might have been 
the gyroscope of opinion that would have restored a balance between ideal
ism and realism, and prevented to some decree the downward plunge into 
materialism.
This generation of intellectuals were realistic in their description of the 
war but wrong-headed in their conclusions. They asserted accurately 
enough, that war was a dirty, bloody business, that war was a bestial 
struggle, that war was a soul-destroying process. So far, they were right.
But they went on to conclude, wrongly, that the soul-sickening loss of 
wealth and life might easily have been avoided. If only we had decided 
to remain aloof from Europe, they argued, the catastrophe would not have 
befallen us. We had been lured, they said, into something we could have 
avoided. And the man in the street, agreeing with the intellectual, said, 
We were the suckers!
This assumption, taken for irrefutable fact, strengthened the disillusion 
of the 20s and then fostered the isolationism of the 30s. The war had 
seemed, to them, to prove one thingthat the only way to avoid fighting 
is not to fight. If America avoided entangling alliances, they argued, 
America would never have to fight.
They were wrong, and we know now they were wrong. But if we 
are to escape their rong-headedness and the consequent disillusionment 
and our future, to a large degree, depends on our not making their mistake 
in judgmentwe must know why and where they went wrong.
They were wrong, primarily, because they fell victim to the confused 
thinking bred by the aftermath of war. They thought only of what they 
had paid; but they gave no thought to what they had gained. In this post
war evaluation, there was absolutely no emphasis upon that an Allied vic
tory had saved, in contrast to what a German victory had threatened. They 
utterly disregarded the fact that if they had chosen to remain neutral, if 
they had chosen to let the Allies lose, a German-dominated Europe would 
have forced them into the struggle anyway, into a struggle which America 
might then have lost.
In short, the real issue of 1918 was overlooked. And the failure to see 
that the sacrifices had not been in vain led to the overthrow of ideals, an 
overthrow which bred the tragic policy of isolationism.
Now, in 1942, the declaration of war upon us by Japan and Germany 
has made clear to all of usat least for the momenthow easily we can 
make mistakes in judgment. The mistaken policy of isolationism can for a 
time take on the illusion of being the correct policy when we accept mere
ly time and space as the determinants of our international policy.
Time can be an illusory circumstance. The period of peace, immedi
ately following a war, can so becloud an issue that the threat of danger 
will be overlooked merely because no present danger looms.
Space can be an illusory circumstance, even after a new danger has 
arisen, when a few thousand miles of water appear to provide adequate 
protection.
The real question yet remains: If we win the war, will we, in the post
war period of peace, again be drugged by the circumstantial opiates of 
time and space? Despite all the evidence of a changed attitude on the part 
of the American public, will this country, in the post-war period of recon
struction, again revert to the mistaken belief that we can remain isolated 
from the rest of the world? Is all the insistent demand for post-war plan
ning merely the product of a momentary impulse? Will a post-war people 
make the sacrifices they now recognize they must make? Those seniors 
who are still without hope ask, Are we destined to be another Lost Gen
eration?
There is no easy answer, of course. But if we believe we can control 
and order own our attitudes, we can in part make that answer. But to 
make that answer, we need, before all else, a recognition of our strength 
as individuals. We need to recognize that individual determination, coupled 
with the determination of millions of others, can make an effective force. 
We need to abandon the philosophy of, What I say wont help, My vote 
wont count, My action will make no difference.
But more than all else, we need a recognition of our weakness: the 
breakdown of the cooperative habit. You and I know a good many seniors 
who insist that cooperation is impossible, and that because man is es
sentially selfish, we cannot hope for a better world. Man certainly is 
selfish. That I cannot deny. Nor do I believe that he might overnight be
come unselfish.
But man is intelligent. And I believe that he is capable of compre
hending, slowly but surely, one thing, and that is that he can achieve his 
selfish desires for personal freedom, personal security, personal happiness 
only so long as the next person has freedom, only so long as the next per
son has security, only so long as the next person has happiness.
I am not saying, then, that man will become less selfish. I am saying 
that he will become more enlightened. He will, he must master himself 
with an enlightened selfiishness, which will express itself in a habit of co
operation. It may not be a perfect cooperation, but it will not be the coop
eration which is only the product of a momentary impulse. It will not be 
the cooperation which is merely extemporized in a crisis, but the kind of 
cooperation which seeks to avoid a crisis.
Whatever hope we have must rest on the belief that man, in his own 
lifetime, will not repeat very often an expensive error. The economic col
lapse of 1929, for instance, was proof that giving free rein to unbridled in
dividualism is an error which assures the downfall of everyone, including 
even the individualist who believes himself most secure. Surely the 
declaration of war upon us by Japan and Germany is proof that giving free 
rein to the unbridled individualism of the national states is also an error 
which assures the downfall of everyone, including even the nation which 
believes itself most secure.
Inside America, in our domestic affairs, the people of America, in 1932 
and in following elections, repudiated the completely uncooperative atti
tude which had characterized the preceding years.
I assert my faith that, outside America, in our international relations, 
the American people, in the post-war period of reconstruction, will as com
pletely repudiate the uncooperative attitude which had characterized our 
foreign policy.
In this great reorientation of American thought, we students have a 
challenging role. You and I have a responsibility, whether we want it or 
not, to help stabilize public opinion, by our thoughts, by our words, and 
by our actions. You and I must ever remember that it was a mentally un
stable America which demanded a chicken in every pot and wound up with 
a Flying Fortress in the sky.
And now, as we fly the bombers and drive the tanks, you and I must 
prove to ourselves that we have the moral and the intellectual courage to 
make sound judgments. For to abandon reason will be disastrous as well 
as cowardly.
And when we return from war, you and I must remember that the 
silencing of the cannon does not guarantee the future, and that the strug
gle for peace still continues. In that post-war period when hatred will still 
prevail and weariness will still linger, we must not justify a retreat into 
isolationist thinking by remembering the negative side of the war.
It is for affirmative reasons we fight a war. It is for affirmative rea
sons we fight for a durable peace. Human freedom, as we have discov
ered, is no vague and hazy abstraction, but a dynamic and impelling force. 
War is the price we pay for freedom. It was so in the past; it is so in the 
present; and it will certainly be so in the future.
Plan, then, for international cooperation, but realize the consequences. 
Create, if you will, a League of Nations, but fight for a League of Nations 
that has teeth in it; and give to such a project your determination to make 
sacrifices, even if that means again to fly the bomber, even if that means 
again to fire the cannon.
A real and durable peace will never be achieved and maintained un
less we remember what we fought for, unless we are willing to fight for it 
again. To hold to this belief in the face of war and in the presence of vic
tory will be a terrific task, but we must face it. It is the only way we 
shall avoid becoming another Lost Generation. It is the only way we 
shall safeguard our future of America.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943
Steel Stamps 
? ? ?
M. E. CUNNINGHAM CO.
115 E. Carson Street HE. 2470
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Ballroom Scene from Fashion. In background are Colonel Howard and 
Gertrude. Couple in foreground,, right of center, are Seraphina and the Count.
Til* ConunuuUl Service men and 
civilians choose this tan military type 
oxford, for all-day walking comfort. 
No. 4161. In Mack No. 40}}
Th. Colon*! Brer popular military 
buckle oxford, in soft durable tan leath. 
er, with rugged leather sole. Smart for 
dress or street wear. No. 4538
I. DOUGLASSHOE CO..BROCKTON. MASS.
PITTSBURGH
t 2 0 3 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-1 East Ohio St., N. 8. *6323 Frankstown Ave., (E. Liberty)
1202 Mar jet St., Wheeling 
Open Monday Evenings until 9:00
*Open Evenings fOPei> Monday and Saturday Evenings
85#
Other styles J5J
Douglas "Doumto-tbeWood instruction assurti you better fa.
Critics Comer -
J. B. has gone off to the wars now, 
and the TARTAN staff regrets that 
for this issue it has not been able 
to obtain the services of another 
critic so capable. The opinions given 
here are those of a layman who 
knows nothing of the stage.
We can find nothing but praise for 
the manner in which the Drama De
partment handled the production of 
Fashion, the final play of this 
years season. The problems con
cerned with the production of a 
nineteenth-century play for the sat
isfaction of a modern audience pre
sents a terrific headache, and the 
drama students, under the direction 
of Miss Mary Morris, really did a 
fine job in turning the stiff, arti
ficial lines into a delightful comedysatire. The music, which was play
ing during a large part of the play, 
coupled with the many songs, was a 
great help in accomplishing this 
end.
The stage settings were quite 
novel, especially the curtain, and 
Richard Hare really went to town 
with the scenery. The costumes, by 
Richard Hare, Robert Stevenson, 
and Jane Pursch, were typical of the 
period of the play, and added much 
to the effectiveness of the acting. 
Make-up, which is always a very 
important item, was not to be ex
celled.
The play concerned a nouveauriche family, the Tiffanys which 
was being driven into all kinds of 
ruin by the foreign-styled fads of 
the fashion-struck mother, played
"FASHION
very adequately by Elsie Cox. The 
much-distraught man of the house 
was Louis Edmonds, whose charac
terization was thoroughly enjoya
ble, provoking many sweeps of 
laughter. We think that, perhaps, 
Adelyne Roth could have handled 
the part of Seraphina a little more 
naturally, but her portrayal of the 
giggly daughter who was captivated 
by a fake count was certainly no 
less than average. Gertrude, the 
heroine, was quite convincingly 
played by Jean Layton, who de
serves a great deal of credit for her 
interpretation of a very difficult 
partthat of a serious person in the 
midst of humorous action. The fake 
count Was well-played, although the 
role was not outstanding. James 
Schmitt, as usual, turned in an ex
ceptional performance as Adam 
Trueman, although it was typically 
within his character range. The part 
of Millinette, the Franch maid play
ed by Doris Bloomberg, seemed just 
a bit over-acted.
Without a doubt, the best per
formance of the play was given by 
Joseph Dolin, as Snobson, the 
treacherous confidential clerk of Mr. 
Tiffany. His drunken song, Not for 
Joe!, rendered in act III, was given 
so well that he had to repeat two 
verses, which he did with some ex
cellent ad libbing.
We find it easy to recommend this 
delightful comedy-satire. It would 
be a very sad person who could not 
walk away from it laughing and 
completely satisfied. J. B. II.
I reflect as I am waiting for the 
phone to be answered that Wil
bur Thomas, Met E 44, is the bus
iness manager of the TARTAN, and 
that he has really done a big job 
well. For the first time in several 
years that paper has come out in 
the black, largely through the unseasing efforts of Will. Things look
ed bad back in January, and no one 
seemed too hopeful of too many pa
pers coming out before the reserve 
cash ran dry, yet somehow Wilbur 
kept the papers coming, large or 
small, each week. Disappointments 
were many, and the demands of the 
students for eight pages were nervewracking, yet Wilbur kept going, all 
alone with his troubles. Then came 
this issue with enough advertising 
to overcome the slight deficit the 
TARTAN was beginning to acquire 
and wind the paper up in the 
profits column!
Will was a cadet captain in the 
advanced ROTC, and was called in
to PiDE for his newspaper work. A 
member of the publications commit
tee by virtue of his TARTAN posi
tion, he emphasizes the importance 
of extra-curriculars in the life of a 
college student. Hello? I hear a 
male voice at the other end of the 
line say. It breaks up my little re
verie, and I answer to it, Will? 
Hello, there! Howre the women 
treating you these days?
Will chuckles and answers, Spice 
of life, same as always! Will is 
looking for a blond with nice 
straight hair, if one exists. What 
did you want, Bud? Oh, I answer, 
I was wondering if you could en
large some pictures I took. Will 
does photography work, too. I dont 
have any money with me, but hell 
do the job because I can offer him
his favorite dish instead  coconut 
custard pie a la mode. Just to make 
sure, I ask him: Sure, Ill do them 
for you for a piece of pie, he
WILBUR THOMAS
a great business manager
When he has time, Will studies, 
which really gives him a good factor 
no fooling! He has earned his 
way through school; starting in high 
school, he worked five years in a 
machine shop, and is a qualified ma
chinist. He doesnt know now 
whether to make the army his 
career or engineering his profession, 
but he is taking no chances on either 
onehe belongs to both the S. A. 
M. E. and the A. S. M. E.
Well, thanks a lot, Will. I say, 
Say, hows the world treating 
you? Oh, he replies, Ive had 
more fun this semester than any 
other. Well, Bud, if you dont mind, 
Im kinda busy. Ill be seeing you. 
So long. So long. Click!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 143THE CARNEGIE TARTAN6
'WHIN
To Those Who Are 
Entering the
WAR!
Good Luck and God Speed 
Mrs. Florence Fisher Parry
.. Council Minutes ...
Fourteenth Meeting, 
April 7, 1943.
The meeting was called to. order at 7:15 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Heller, Wolff, Dolan,
Lindgren, and Martin, and the Misses 
Beall and McKee.
COMMITTEE REPORT 
Social
Miss Zonge moved that the petition 
from C. W. C. A. to hold a Tag Day on 
Tuesday, April 20, be approved.
Motion Carried.
Publications 
Mr. Rose moved that the TARTAN staff 
elected March 31, be approved. The staff 
is composed of the following members:
Editor-in-Chief.......................David Neuss
Managing Editors .......................................
..............Ed Goldstein and Walter Darby
News Editor...............................Louisa Saul
Features Editor...;..........Helena Aronson
Copy Editors..............................................
..... -Elaine Levine and Gerry Edelson
Spots Editor...........................John Lindberg
Personnel Manager..............T. J. Harmany
Motion carried.
Points and Keys 
Mr. Whiteside reported that activities  
keys will probably not arrive until after 
the end of the present semester and will 
be sent to those students who have 
earned them.
OLD BUSINESS 
Mr. Schewitz moved that Student Coun
cil finance the Kiltie Band Banquet up to 
$75 in return for playing at Spring Car
nival only if they need the money.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Jones asked that Student Council 
members help with the Spring Carnival 
decorations.
Mr. Boyce reported that tickets for Car
nival will be on sale Wednesday, Thurs
day, and Friday in Industries Hall from 
11:30 until 1:30.
Mr. Galbraith read the report of the 
Special Committee. Mr. Jones moved that 
this be accepted as the Constitution of the 
Army Civilian Activities Committee. The 
report is as follows:
I. PURPOSE
The purpose of this body will be to 
Control all student campus activities not 
of an intercollegiate athletic nature at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, and 
decide matters of policy.
II. TENURE
This body shall become active and as
sume the duties specified by the present 
Student Council immediately after the se
mester ending May 2, 1943. It shall cease 
to function when C. I. T. resumes formal 
operation on a pre-war basis.
III. REPRESENTATION
A. Election of the representatives to 
the A. C. A. C. shall be conducted by 
Student Council from each of the follow
ing civilian groups: (Thereafter, the A. C.
A. C. will conduct the elections.) Each 
reprsentative shall have one vote: Arts 
School, one representative; Margaret Mor
rison, two representatives; Engineering, 
one representative; Publications, one rep
resentative; Athletics, one representative.
1. An administration co-ordinator ap
pointed by the school shall function as 
chairman of the Council. He shall have 
no vote.
B. The Army shall be represented by 
three men selected in the manner decid
ed by the Council when the Army shall 
start classes. They shall represent Ath
letics, Publications, and Engineering. 
Each shall have one vote.
C. The Council shall be open to addi
tional representatives as it shall itself de
cide. The total number shall be limited
to eleven, plus the administration co
ordinator.
IV. COMMITTEES
A. There shall be committees of: Bud
get, Dances and Cocial Events, Athletics, 
Publications, and Special.
1. The Budget Committee, composed of 
one of the representatives from the three 
schools and chosen by the Council shall 
check and move for the approval of bud
gets from all activities. He shall be in 
charge of taking tickets at all social func
tions. He shall handle all finances 
through the Administration Co-ordinator.
2. The Committee on Dances and So
cial Events, composed of one of the repre
sentatives from the three schools, and 
chosen by the Council, will check and 
move for the approval of the dates of all 
social events on campus. He shall be in 
charge of checking at these events, and 
shall be in charge of permanent decora
tions.
3. Special Committee, composed of one 
of the representativs from the three 
schools and chosen by the Council, shall 
be in charge of awarding points and keys 
and shall be in charge of any special 
events or investigations which may arise.
4. The Committee on Athletics, com
posed of the two persons elected to that 
specific post, shall be the student co-ordinator for intramural activities at C. I. T. 
They shall work in connection with the 
Athletic Department of the school. They 
shall work in conection with the Athletic 
Department of the school. They shall 
set up a board, chosen under a policy 
submitted to and approved by the Coun
cil, to assist them.
5. The Committee on Publications, 
composed of the two persons elected to 
the specific post, shall head a board com
posed of the Editor and Business Manager 
of each publication and shall check, more 
for the approval of the policy and elec
tions of each publication.
V. MEETINGS
A. Time shall be decided after consul
tation with the Commanding Officer of 
the Army at C. I. T.
B. Roberts Rules of Order shall pre
vail.
VI. BY-LAWS
Any activities having surplus at the 
termination of the functioning of the A. 
C. A. C. shall turn such surpluses into a 
general fund, which shall be used for any 
specific purpose decided on by the A. C. 
A. C.
All accounts of individual organizations 
shall be frozen as of May 2, 1943, and will 
be released when normal activities are 
resumed on the Carnegie Tech campus.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that Mr. Sher be 
designated as the Council representative 
to see that elections to the A. C. A. C. 
are held at the beginning of next semester.
Motion carried.
Miss Gehret moved that the President 
of the Margaret Morrison Senate and the 
President of the Junior class become 
members of the A. C. A. C. as representa
tives from Margaret Morrison.
Motion carried.
Miss Carlock moved that the represen
tative from Arts School to the A. C. A. C. 
be elected from the members of the senior 
class at a general election. Candidates 
must submit petitions in the regular man
ner.
Motion carried.
Mr. Jones moved that Mr. Sher be 
named as the representative from Engi
neering School to the A. C. A. C.
Motion carried.
Mr. Jones moved that John Lindberg
... School Calendar...
Monday, May 10, 1943 will be the 
opening date for the first expedited 
classes at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. The program calls for 
three semesters a year and is re
quired for Engineering, Secretarial, 
and General Science students. Girls 
who are taking General Studies 
with a secretarial minor may enter 
this program if they want to; it is 
optional for them.
The only way a student required 
to take the course can be excused 
is by obtaining a leave of absence 
from school for the summer semes
ter of the trimester program. How
ever, to be allowed a leave of ab
sence, a student must present just 
cause, such as the necessity of work
ing during the summer to make the 
money to come back to school for 
the following year. Very few 
leaves have been granted as it is 
necessary to have enough classes to
be appointed to the A. C. A. C. as repre
sentative from athletics.
Mr. Shewitz suggested that this mo
tion be tabled until Mr. Lindberg can be 
contacted and asked if he is willing to 
assume this responsibility.
Mr. Landerman moved that the Publi
cations Committee elect the publications 
representative to the A. C. A. C., with the 
provision that Mr. Sher be present at the 
voting.
Motion carried.
Mr. Galbraith said that the soldiers will 
probably not be on campus at the begin
ning of the semester, and that the A. C. 
A. C. will determine the manner of elec
tion of the three Army representatives.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
JUDY ROSE SKEEHAN, 
Acting Secretary.
make this trimester arrangement 
feasible.
Along with this plan there will be 
a six week summer session starting 
May 3, and an eight week special 
course for Naval Reservists also 
starting on May 3.
The following is a complete pro
gram for the summer session:
May 3, MondayRegistration for six and 
eight-week Supplementary Tefrns.
May 10, MondayRegistration First Se
mester Expedited Classes.
May 11, TuesdayClasses Begin.
May 31, MondayLegal Holiday.
June 4, Friday, and June 5, Saturday 
College Entrance Board Examinations. 
June 18, Friday  Supplementary Term 
six-week subjects end.
June 19, Saturday  Technical Tests, 
Music.
June 25, Friday, and June 26, Saturday 
Registration for Summer Session, Fine 
Arts.
June 26, SaturdayMid-Semester grades. 
Supplementary Term eight-week sub
jects end.
July 5, MondayLegal Holiday.
July 12, Monday, to July 15, Thursday 
Technical Tests of Painting and De
sign and Sculpture.
Aug. 1, SaturdaySummer Session ends. 
Aug. 15, Monday, to Aug. 21, Saturday 
Examinations for Expedited Classes. 
Aug. 21, SaturdayFirst Semester Expe
dited Classes ends.
Aug. 23, Monday, to Aug. 26, Thursday 
Technical Tests in Painting and Design 
and Sculpture.
Aug. 24, Tuesday, to Aug. 25, Wednesday 
Technical tests, Drama.
Aug. 25, Wednesday  Technical Tests, 
Music.
Aug. 26, Thursday, to Aug. 28, Saturday 
Registration First Semester Day, Sec
ond Semester Expedited Classes.
Aug. 30, MondayClasses Begin, includ
ing Library School._____________________
j; "VEGETABLES FOR VICTORY 
 \ - AND rM PARCHED
tji ;
^!jr
When youre doing your 
Victory gardening, youll 
iM THIRSTYwelcome ice-cold 
Coca-Cola. Speaking for 
Coke, I'm here to tell you 
that ice-cold Coca-Cola, 
brings you all the differ
ence between something 
really refreshing and ust 
something to drink. It has a 
taste all its own and quality 
you trust. Enjoy it 
whenever
IOTTIED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943
QuenMado PluA.
Milton Levine Arranged 
Music For Fashion
Our meeting place was the Times 
Square of Carnegie Techthe Bean
ery. It wasnt long before I spotted 
Milton Levine, the Carnegie music 
student who wrote the vocal ar
rangements for both a winning fra
ternity ajid sorority in the Greek 
Sing contest. Milt, a dark complexioned youth, smiling broadly, 
sat down and prepared to answer 
any of the questions I had to ask 
him.
Tell me, I said, when did you 
first start to play an instrument?
Reflecting for a moment he recall
ed that at the age of seven, when he 
had the whooping cough, his moth
er, who was a music teacher, decid
ed that Milt should become a 
musician too; and those were the 
circumstances that started his mu
sical career. This little experience 
shows the benefits of getting sick.
Since learning how to play the 
piano, Milt has mastered five other 
instruments including the cello. 
Milt told me that the reason he took 
up the cello was that he would be 
able to sit as he played, instead of 
standing to play the violin.
A member of Phi Mu Alpha, the 
mens music honorary, Milt also has 
many other achievements to his 
credit. Besides arranging songs for 
fraternities and sororities at Pitt 
as well as here, he was musical di
rector of a few plays staged by the 
Drama Department last year. His 
most recent accomplishment is the 
musical direction of the Drama De
partments new play, Fashion.
Milt is not a composer as you 
might think, but an arranger. His 
first taste of arranging came, when 
as a member of Scotch and Soda, he 
was told to make a vocal arrange
ment. Ever since then his interest 
for arranging music has grown, and 
in the future he hopes to go to New 
York to write arrangements for musicales.
Unfortunately Milts hopes will 
not be fulfilled until after the war 
is over, for he is entering the air 
corps at the end of the semester.
Compliments of 
Harris Pump & 
Supply Co.
Industrial Supplies
Brady and Sidney Streets
. Pittsburgh, Pa.
"(lube Qoldihesuf" 9*t Plaid
Artistically Inclined Engineer Has 
Infernal Ability at Gadgeteering
Room 204, Noble Scobell, has lit
tle ,to boast of in itself; it is finish
ed in the indescribably dingy color 
of all Scobell rooms, and is cluttered 
because it does not contain enough 
room for the impediments of its two 
occupants. The wall above the desk 
nearest the window is plastered 
with cartoons, and the desk, both of 
them, are piled so high as to make 
studying difficult. Next to the douTHE LITTLE DEMON
. . . Schulzs Super-Schulz-O-Dyne . . .
ble-decker bed is a junky-looking, 
home-made radio. At the foot of the 
bed is a trunk, upon which has been 
piled all sorts of things. So with the 
dresser-wardrobe. And yet, with all 
this disorganization and clutteration, the room is strangely attrac
tive to the friends of its two tenants.
Perhaps a large part of this at
tractiveness springs from the 
friendly air about the place, but the 
one thing which that little room can 
boast of is William J. Schulzand 
his Little Demon Super-Schulz-ODyne. To say the least, Schulz is 
versatile, and largely non-conform
ist. In the space of nineteen years 
he has become familiar with shopwork, dabbled in photography, 
model airplanes, radio,, oil painting, 
and, to a large extent, gadgeteer
ing. Pride in a job well done goes
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
*L IB $3.00 per
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
hand in hand with this junior elec
trical, and in this particular case, it 
seems to be infectious. Schulzies 
friends take as much pride and in
terest in his work as he does.
Our victim, the tinkerer of 204, 
has a remarkable ability to trans
form junk and scrap into workings 
of grotesque art. This grotesque art 
is not to be construed as fine art 
that comes later. I mean things like 
making electrical meters out of 
broken watches and electric motors, 
with all the adjustments, out of 
transformers and copper boxes. His 
favorite raw material is the near
est wire coat-hanger, and some of 
his best works are supported by the 
humble, stuff. At least one of his 
gadgets made Professor Teare very 
happy last year  the inevitable 
coat-hanger, some wire and a knob 
of some sort thrown together to il
lustrate a horrible engineering anal
ysis problem.
Cartooning has long been a favor
ite pastime with the Scobellite. Re
cently there has been a wave of 
blown panels and short-circuited 
generators in the electrical labs, and 
Schulz has always had an apporpriate cartoon to paste up the scene. 
The wall above his side of the room 
is plastered with his brainchildren,
THE LITTLE DEMON
. . . not so little in this painting . . .
possible because his cluttered desk 
contains no room for the classy 
drawings.
Springing, possibly, from his car
tooning habit, is his ability to im
agine such out-of-this-world items 
as a deep red cat and a devil wan
dering through a firelit scene of de
spair. A patience developed from 
long hours of tedious labor over fine 
wires and windings in radio work
Letter of Explanation
(Following is an exerpt from a letter 
to the faculty by president Robert E. 
Doherty).
For about a week or so in March 
we had hoped and had every rea
son to expect that our long period 
of uncertainty was over and that we 
were finally in position to plan on 
receiving 900 to 1,000 Army stu
dents in the first week in May. Then 
we were disappointed to learn 
that the Armys own plans in 
screening out soldiers as students 
had gone awry and that a delay of 
weeks or months was involved. So 
again we do not know on what date 
we shall receive students or how 
many there will be. We know only 
That Carnegie has been definitely 
designated as a prospective training 
center for Army students. We are 
not to have any Navy students.
Our best guess as to when the 
Army students will be assigned to 
us is some time in June. But this.is 
mere guessing. Conceivably a fav
orable turn in events might brir\g 
them before June 1, but it certainly 
is also possible that the date might 
be in July.
________ROBERT E. DOHERTY.
enabled him to learn quickly to 
paint with oils, and thus he could 
put such conceptions as these down 
in solid color.
But the pride and joy of the 
Schulz domain is the aforemention
ed ten-tube Little Demon SuperSchulz-O-Dyne radio, which is a 
work of super grotesque art in itself. 
Homemade, it looks like the wreck 
of the Hesperus done in surrealist 
art, but it plays like an instrument 
of the masters. But as no other ra
dio that I know of, it is exemplary 
of the New Jerseyites desire to 
walk where angels fear to tread 
on electronic lines. His designs have 
interested some of our best profs, 
and his works have scared some of 
the best maids in the mens dorms. 
Schulz loves the trick circuits that 
no one else dares to try, and his 
greatest dread is that he might be
come a child of convention in his de
signs.
Schulzie believes that everyone 
should have a broad range of knowl
edge and interests, and he practices 
what he preaches. And he looks ex
actly like what he is, as he sits on 
his bed, dressed in the tan leather 
jacket which rarely comes off, and 
with his inevitable crushed grey felt 
hat perched precariously on the 
back of his head. Woe be to conven
tion when Carnegie Tech turns him 
loose.
Compliments of
S.& P. COAL COMPANY
Pittsburgh, Pa.
101 Dasher StreetFAirfax 2223

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Wel are
Car-Saver Service
NavyvReRegistered Lubrication
kNvyAMfRbMotor Oil
GULF OIL CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943
Spring Carnival...
Continued from page 1
I swoon at the thought of Jane 
Pursch and Bob Stevenson, Drama 
Department costumiers, elegantly 
garbed in original outfits that would 
have been outstanding at any fancy 
dress ball. Stevenson also design
ed and executed that sharp bit of 
white satin Louis XV you saw dash
ing madly aroundbetter known as 
Ed Goldstein, the now proud pop
pa of MardiGras, Carnegie Techs 
most illustrous affair of the decade.
Although many people unfortu
nately missed it, President Doherty 
made the whole thing legal at 9:15 
with an official proclamation to let 
the spirit of Mardi Gras reign over 
the campusat least until one 
oclock! And it did reignliterally, 
figuratively, and noisily.
There was glamour, too. The Delts
Compliments of
PITTSBURGH 
COKE & IRON
Neville Island
Pittsburgh, Pa.
carried off the float prize and Marge 
Maddox in an oriental sedan chair, 
Spanish sirens in white ruffles, 
magneta satin, fringed scrafs, and 
dangly earrings wended their vari
ous ways colorfully through the 
most carefree crowd weve ever had 
at any dance. ODK and Tri Gams 
Contributed their glamour in the 
form of a Thistle version of New 
Orleans Antoine and a blues floor 
show. Kay Pantazi and handsome 
Apache friend displayed amazing 
talents we never suspected. Sorority 
sisters Torchy and Suzanne ca
vorted and sang in authentic cabaret 
style.
And it only took me three hours 
to figure out that Marge Weatherwax, bedecked in a ravishing flan
nel nightie, carrying a candle and 
miniature tire was the Goodyear 
Rubber Companys trademark. My 
mind was foggy yith confetti and 
sweet music, you know. My costume 
now lies limp and wilted over the 
back of the chair. Ill tear it apart 
soon, but just for a little longer, 
please, let me dream ofsheiks and 
Gay Nineties things, of Indians and 
Kilties, cabbages and kings . . .
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Compliments of
FRIEND
? ? ?
one of the boys
Earl Obringer
I met him on the cut near the bul
letin board, and we started walking 
toward his apartment for lunch. 
Earl Obringer, MA44, needs no in
troduction to students of Carnegie 
Tech. While walking we talked 
of things that you might expect two 
Tech students to talk aboutmov
ies, machine design, the Technical, 
war, and spring, for it was the first 
of those sunny days that Pittsburgh
ers wait for all winter. It was not 
until we had arrived at his apart
ment and were going up in the ele
vator that our thoughts turned to 
the lunch which Betty had prepar
ed for us.
Earl and Betty will have been 
married for two years next August. 
While he has been in school he has 
been self-supporting, and, of course, 
wife-supporting. Last year he did 
not attend school; instead he work
ed as a welder and replenished his 
supply of lucre at the rate of over 
one hundred dollars a week. (He is 
a certified U-70 welder  interest
ing?) He has also done pipe lay
out for the E. I. DuPont Ammonia 
Plant in Morgantown.
When Earl returned to school this 
semester it was with the firm de
termination to emphasize his studies 
rather than extra-curricular activi
ties. Consequently he became edi
tor-in-chief of the Carnegie Techni
cal, president of Pi Tau Sigma, vicepresident of I. A. S., secretary of 
S. A. M. E., and a member of Pi 
Delta Epsilon, Scabbard and Blade, 
and Theta Tau.
After washing the dishes we 
scrambled into the living room and 
made ourselves comfortable. I no
ticed a rifle team practice card on 
the end table92, standing position. 
This is the kind of shooting that 
gets them between the eyes, I said. 
This remark opened a new line of 
discussion. Earl will leave with the 
rest of the advanced R. O. T. C. at 
the end of this semester.
But I Will have something worth 
fighting for,  Earl remarked, a 
pretty wife and a young sonor 
maybe it will be a daughter. Betty 
blushed.
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
.1 .Compliments of
PITTSBURGH DES MOINES
STEEL COMPANY
Neville IslandFE. 2000

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Graduate Student Pioneers In 
Chemical Engineering Research
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is, to most students merely a place 
to learn that more firmly establish
ed sciences of the engineer. There is, 
however, another phase to the intel
lectual life within its walls  re
search. Unknown to most students, 
this pioneering is being carried oh 
continuously, and it is the results 
of such research that form the back
bone for tomorrows textbooks.
Some of your instructors are 
carrying on these investigations. 
Much experimentation, however, is 
done by graduate students. In the 
latter category stands Burton J. 
Cherney. Behind one of the more 
obscure doors of the Chemical En
gineering Department in Engineer
ing Hall Mr. Cherney is probing into 
pressure-volume relations of gases.
He is doing this work under a fel
lowship from the Allied Chemical 
and Dye Corporation, and with his 
results he expects to earn his doc
tors ^degree.
Photo by Lew KleinMr. Cherney intends to apply his 
new information about gases to hy
drocarbons (chemical substances 
composed of hydrogen and carbon,
i. e., petroleum and closely related 
products) most of which are highly 
volatile in many stages of their 
manufacture.
In order to carry out his investi
gations, it was necessary to develop 
more accurate and versatile labora
tory methods than are ordinarily 
used. The ingenious device in the 
above picture is Mr. Cherneys own 
development, and the work he does 
with it will be the subject of the 
thesis for his doctors degree.
The apparatus is divided into 
three components. One part applies 
to pressure conditions, another to 
volume conditions, and the third to 
the maintaining of a constant tem
perature. Pressure is applied to oil, 
and is transmitted by means of a 
piston arrangement with weights at
tached in a scale-like arrangement.
Microtomic VANDYKE
The Drawing Pencil that experienced draftsmen j 
acclaim superior. For smoothness, durability, 
and accuracy of degree. At your supply store. ' '
EBERHARD FABER
Jlaadenlrip IN FINE WRITING MATERIALS SINCE 1849
WHEN YOURE IN A HURRY - -
KEYSTONE LUMBER COMPANY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
44 Carnegie Women Serve 
Nation In U. S. Auxiliaries
According to the records of the 
Tech Placement Bureau, forty-four 
women graduates of Carnegie Tech 
are now serving in some branch of 
the Armed Forces. Tech grads 
are now WAVES, WAACS, Spars, 
Marines, Army and Navy nurses, 
and Army dieticians. A forty-fifth 
is serving with the Red Cross in 
Australia. That many more Tech 
alumnae are in the service is un
doubtedly true, and Miss Grace 
Merril, in charge of Womens Place
ments, expects more reports to that 
effect.
Most of the Tech Women are en
rolled in the Waves: twenty being 
officers or officer candidates, and 
three others reported merely as 
WAVES, without officer training be
ing specified. Eight are in the 
WAACS, one with the Spars, and 
two with the Marines. Eight nurses 
are reported; six with the army, one 
with the Navy, and one not speci
fied. Also, two Tech graduates are 
listed as Army dieticians.
Every class from 1931 through 
1942 is represented, led by the 
classes of 39 and 42 with six mem
bers of each reported. Also repre
sented are the classes of 16, 22, 24, 
and 28. _____________________
The oil transmits the pressure to a 
bomb which holds the sample. As 
the sample decreases in size, a pis
ton moves down to fill the space. 
The volume is then known for a par
ticular pressure and temperature, 
since the size of the piston is known 
and the distance it moves can be de
termined.
Mr. Cherney is a small sample of 
the army of research pioneers at 
Carnegie Tech.
Best Wishes
to the
Senior 
Class
from
City Ice & 
Fuel Co.
M. M. C. C. Elections Today
Candidates for the elections are as 
follows:
Sophomore President
Betty Haynes Marion Miller
Helen Jaffurs Josephine Sunseri
Sophomore Secretary
Harriet Lieber Jeanne Norris
Evelyn MacNeill Mary Vincent
Sophomore Treasurer
Dorothy Federman Shirley Kruman 
Adeline Herlick Stephanie Kwolek 
Patricia Kelsey 
Sophomore Senate Representative 
Anne S. Atkinson Martha Sant 
Norma Caplan Jane Branagan 
Anna Jane Zimmerman 
Junior President
Pauline Lamp Natalie Taylor
Mary Ann Rial Dorothy Willison
Junior Secretary
Phoebe Ann James Eloise Nettleton 
Junior Treasurer
Helen McKean Adele Bauer
Clementine McKenna 
Junior Senate Representative
Helen Robinson Rea Olive Simon
Suzanne Scott 
Senior President
Doris Bowman Mary Pollis
Ruth Kwall 
Senior Secretary
Naomi Ellman Jean Macdonald
Jean Kirkpatrick Jean Weinkauf
Senior Treasurer
Peggy A. Fay T. J. Harmany
Janet Denslow Martha Jones
Senior Senate Representative
Janet Cook Marie Sunseri
Louisa Saul 
Margaret Morrison Senate President 
Dorothy Schadel Sally Moir
C. W. C. A. President
Helen Robinson Joy Swan
C. W. C. A. Vice President
T. J. Harmany Ruth Luebbe
C. W. C. A. Secretary
Elizabeth Beall Mary Ann Rial
C. W. C. A. Treasurer
Virginia Germy Becky Townsend
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Compliments 
... of - - -
THE 
AUTOMATIC 
CIGARETTE 
SALES CO.
929 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
?

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943
Students Inteviewed To Discover Their 
Opinions On Sports Situation At Carnegie
-Photo by Klein.
Table Tennis Tourney Won By Jim Taylor; 
Lyman and McCurdy Capture Doubles Title
By Chuck Domm
The Annual Table Tennis Tourna
ment produced new champions in 
both the Mens singles and Doubles. 
The school champion is James Tay
lor, a commuter Kappa Sig fresh
man. He is one of the smoothest 
and most effective players the 
school has seen for a good while. 
His worthy opponent from McGill 
Hall, Bill Mast, not being accustom
ed to tournament play did a fine job 
of showing why he waded through 
the opposition during the elimina
tion matches. The first game was 
Taylor all the way, the score be
ing 21-8. Mast rallied in the next 
stanza and wound up on top 21-18. 
It was in the third and fourth games 
that the champ really showed his 
stuff and won 21-11 and 21-15. 
The school can feel honored to 
have such a fine person as their new 
ping pong king.
The doubles match pitted a couple 
of teams that are well known in 
the table tennis competition around 
Tech. The victors from McGill Hall, 
Jim Lyman and Jim McCurdy, real
ly put on a good exhibition of ex
pert team work. I must say that 
throughout the whole tournament 
none of the games were as thrilling 
to watch as the doubles final. The 
scores indicate that the match was 
very close and in fact there is very 
little difference in the paddle games 
of the winners and losers. Frank 
Showman and Jacques Meyers can 
well feel proud of their perform
ance in the tournament. The scores
Lei's go lo
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONiSS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
were 21-19, 19-21, 21-18, and 26-24. 
The last game was by far the best 
of the match and the deuce rocked 
back and forth 5 times before Ly
man and McCurdy could put the 
match on ice. Hats off to the 
new champions and, friends, dont 
forget to shake the finalists hand 
around campus to show your ap
preciation for the time they have 
put into making the tournament a 
success. Well heres hoping we 
have a bigger and better tourna
ment next year and I wish to thank 
the participants for the wonderful 
cooperation and also my commit
tee of Jim Eyman, Fred Williams, 
and Monroe Munsell.
Delta Tau Delta Beats 
Beta Six In Bowling
Last Saturday, with all the 
hubbub taking place here on our 
fair campus (cleaners dont think 
so) the Delta Tau Delta boys kept 
level heads and went on to defeat 
the Beta Sigmo Rho fraternity, thus 
gaining the schools bowling cham
pionship.
The match did fulfill all expecta
tions as far as excitement is con
cerned, for the ending couldnt have 
been better written by any Holly
wood writer. The story of a bad 
man finding himself and coming 
through at the end, but more of that 
later.
The first game, of the three pro
posed, proved practically no match 
as the Delts showed superior skill 
and turned all to gold by their 
magic touch. The score was 704 to 
610. Their scores were of high cal
iber with the poorest one (poor I 
say, it beats mine by 50 pins) of 126
HEALTH
is
Important
fcOWll N
Keep Fit by 
\ Bowling
University Recreation
407 South Craig Street 
Phone MAyflower 2998
By John A. Lindberg
Continuing last weeks series of 
opinions on the sport situation at 
Tech, students on campus were in
terviewed and their opinions will be 
given this week. It may be recall
ed that the opinion of most of the 
faculty members was that intercol
legiate sports should be continued 
as long as possible and that they 
were a vital part of any college cur
riculum. Also it was the concensus 
of opinion that one should not be 
stressed over the other, but both 
should be given equal emphasis.
Having heard from the faculty 
and administration, it is now time 
for the students to voice their well 
respected opinions.
BOB REISACHER, Architect 43: 
Under the present conditions there 
is only one solutionintramurals 
should predominate. If intramurals 
are to be stressed, varsity athletics 
should be discarded completely in 
order to give intramurals the full 
support of the student body. When 
normalcy arrives again, Tech should 
start with a clean slate and build a 
first rate athletic plant with no re
strictions placed on subsidized foot
ball.
JOE BENKO, EE 44; Intercol
legiate should be stressed over in
tramurals during normal times, but 
for the present, a program consist
ing solely of intramurals is better 
for the reason that there is not a suf
ficient number of men available to 
make an intercollegiate program 
worth while.
HUGH SMITH, ME 44: This
school offers too tough a schedule to 
do both; however, both intramurals 
and varsity sports should both be 
present in a college curriculum. 
Varsity sports are important in that 
they build school spirit and provide 
that necessary of ken competition.
posted by Ted Drabers. Ed Mehl 
proved tops with 167 and Pollock 
topped the Beta Sigs rollers with a 
mediocre 136. All in all the Beta 
Sigs seemed outclassed and all pres
ent didnt give them much of a 
chance for a comeback.
But come back they did and in 
great style, too. However, Ed Mehl 
who up to his last frame was bowl
ing his poorest game of the season, 
if not his career, made sure things 
were to go as they were destined. At 
the post and ready to roll, Ed real
ized something depended on him, 
as some of the Beanery Bugs say, 
the blue chips were definitely down, 
so, bang, crash, murder and a strike. 
When the smoke cleared away the 
score read 655 to 652 with the 
Arabians on the long end of the 
score. A margin of only three pins, 
but still enough to crown the Delta 
Tau Delta fraternity as the schools 
bowling champion for this years 
competition in that interesting and 
exciting sport.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
We should continue to have inter
collegiate athletics as long as pos
sible, scheduling teams s e can com
pete with on an even basis. We 
should not schedule the so-called 
pro opponents.
MEL SNYDER, MA 43: Varsity 
sports should continue as long as it 
is possible for them to do so. Not 
only are intercollegiate sports im
portant in themselves, but they also 
further the intramural program by 
increasing the total number of per
sons engaging in athletics as a 
whole. When students with special 
abilities engage in intercollegiate 
sports, it makes room for and pro
vides fairer competition. This point 
should be considered with the rest 
of the many statements that have 
been made about both programs.
ASHER ETKES, Architect 45: 
Intercollegiate competition is far 
more in keeping with the war ef
fort than intramural competition, 
hence should be stressed as much 
as possible in time like these. Intra
murals are more or less a hit-andmiss proposition in which there is 
no training or toughening process. 
The activity of a participator is for 
too infrequent to permit the devel
opment of muscles and body pro
perly. When a fellows goes out for 
an intercollegiate sport, he under 
goes a definite training and harden
ing period, which puts him in top 
physical shape. The sport itself 
maintains this edge on the athlete. 
The benefits derived from intra
murals are too spasmodic in their 
nature to be of any real value. 
Again varsity sports should be 
stressed as much as possible for this 
reason.
JOE ELGER, CE 45: The ideal 
combination of sports on campus 
would be a strong varsity and intra
mural program collectively. To do 
this you must have a well organ
ized intramural programoffering 
those activities which will draw the 
maximum amount of interest from 
the student body. This program 
should be supplemented by a carsity 
program extensive enough to bring 
forth college spirit that is evidently 
lacking on the Tech campus today.
Again summarizing the opinions 
given, it is quite evident that both 
on the part of the faculty and on the 
part of the students, .intercollegiate 
athletics should continue as long as 
possible. Let us sincerely hope that 
such will prove to be the sace. It 
would indeed be fortunate if inter
collegiate activities should continue, 
since the war has fairly well equal
ized all colleges with respect to their 
intercollegiate teams. With this in 
mind, it appears that Tech should 
be able to hold her own, perhaps 
even more, in competition with 
other schools. At any rate it is 
quite certain that future events will 
be very interesting.
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
-ISBILLS LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
HELP UNCLE SAM WIN THE WORLDS TITLE!
INVEST 10% OF YOUR INCOME 
IN WAR BONDS
DUs Outswim Pi KA; 
Betas and Delts Tie
Two intramural swimming meets 
were held last Monday and two 
more scheduled for Wednesday 
were lost by forfeit. Delta Tau Del
ta and Beta Theta Pi swam to an ex
citing 25-25 tie while Delta Upsilon 
was beating Pi Kappa Alpha 27-19. 
The Delt-Beta tie is to be played off 
early this week. Scobell and Alpha 
Tau Omega forfeited to Sigma Al
pha Spsilon and Tau Delta Phi re
spectively when they did not appear 
for their matches. The two winners 
then held a practice meet which 
SAE won easily by a 34-12 score. 
This meet may be declared official 
if no objection is raised because the 
teams were scheduled for a match 
this week anyway.
The Beta-Delt match was very 
close all the way with each team 
winning about the same number of 
first places. The Betas would have 
won if they had not been disquali
fied for jumping the gun in the first 
event, a 100 yard freestyle relay. 
The diving was won for the Delts 
by Bob Tridd as he beat out Stu
Compliments
- - - of - - -
STEEL 
PRODUCTS
202 Bradley St. 
McKees Rocks, Pa. 
FE. 3300
Williams by half a point. When this 
tie is played off two teams of vet
erans will be competing in their 
third contest; no other team had 
swum more than one meet up to the 
end of last week. The DUs lost the 
100 yard freestyle relay to PiKA at 
the beginning of their meetx but 
they soon caught up and had ac
quired a safe lead by the time the 
last event came up. The outstanding 
event of this meet was not a close 
race but exactly the opposite. Hugh 
Smith won the backstroke in 30.9 
seconds, a time which would be a 
credit to last seasons varsity team. 
The SAEs beat Tau Delta Phi 
rather easily, but neither team dis
played the strength that is so com
mon in the other bracket. Unfor
tunately all the strong teams are 
grouped together and the real con
test will be the semi-finals in the 
top division.
Compliments
. .. of - - -
H. Samson, Inc.
Funeral
Directors
537 Neville St.
Established 1859
jHetteM. *7a
Mr. John Lindberg,
Sports Editor of the Carnegie
TARTAN
Dear John,
I have just finished reading your 
very interesting article appearing 
in the April 6th issue of the TAR
TAN and noticed the quotation un
der my name. May I repeat again 
that I am strongly in favor of our 
present Physical Fitness Program 
as it is set up here at Carnegie Tech, 
in which we include all three 
branches, namely, Intercollegiate 
Athletics, Intramural Athletics, and 
Physical Education. There is and 
always will be a place for all three 
of them in any well rounded col
lege or university curriculum.
It is needless for me to tell you 
that there will be fewer civilians 
taking part in all three branches of 
our Physical Fitness Program, but 
on the other hand here at Tech we 
are fortunate in that we will have 
a larger student body than many 
other colleges and larger than some 
of the colleges with whom we com
peted in athletics had before the 
war. This applies both to Intercol
legiate and to Intramural Athletic 
teams. The least we can do is to
*7<4e Srditosi
carry on and do the best we can to 
help preserve the morale of our stu
dent body, which is a great factor in 
times like we are going through. 
Nothing wrould please Hitler more 
than to have us quit, so let us stay 
in there pitching till the last shot is 
fired.
Dear John,
Please allow me to correct a state
ment appearing in the TARTAN of 
April 6, 1943, in which you said 
there were no spring sports in the 
offing. We will have a complete 
schedule in tennis, meeting such 
teams as Pitt, West Virginia, Penn 
State, Oberlin, W. & J., Slippery 
Rock, and California State Teachers 
College. The first match takes 
place on May 12. We will have a 
regular schedule in golf. Matches 
have been made with Pitt, West 
Virginia, Slippery Rock, and a few 
others. Again the first match will 
be on May 12. We also will place a 
track team in the field, and have 
meets scheduled with Pitt, Oberlin, 
Geneva, and several other meets 
pending.
CLARENCE OVEREND,
FRANK
MEN'S WEAR
OPEN EVERY EVENING 
5872 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL HILL
Whats the trouble, misterIndian Underwear?
If youre a victim of underwear that creeps up on 
you, get next to some well-behaved Arrow shorts 
with the specially constructed seamless crotch. 
Theyre full cut from durable fabrics. Sanforized 
labeled for permanent fit (fabric shrinkage less 
than 1%). Whites and fancy, 75c up. Tops, 60c up. 
Your Arrow dealer to the rescue!
ARROW
SHIRTS  TIES  HANKDERCHIEFS  UNDERWEAR  SPORT SHIRTS 
? BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS ?
LEONARDS MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS 
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood

---------------------------------------------------

12THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 13, 19433The dTatrtietjte plaid
Engs 28th Annual Banquet Is Set 
For May 8th At Fort Pitt Hotel
The Evening College of Engineer
ings 28th Annual Banquet is just a 
little over three weeks away and 
all students who are planning to at
tend this affair are urged to pur
chase their tickets immediately as 
there are a limited number of res
ervations. The tickets are $2.50 
(tax included) which is a very rea
sonable fee for everything that is 
to be provided at this affair.
In the past, this banquet has been 
the outstanding event of the year 
this year is not to be an exception. 
The Banquet Committee, headed 
by Ed. Macha, has been working dil
igently on this event and has ar
ranged a full evening of entertain
ment.
The Banquet will be held on Sat
urday, May 8th, in the English 
Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, Pitts
burgh. The program will begin 
promptly at 6:45 P. M. with a de
licious dinner, followed by ad
dresses by popular speakers. Next a 
highly entertaining floor show, then 
smokes, refreshments, and distribu
tion of valuable door prizes. As has 
been the procedure in the past, each 
man present will receive a varied 
assortment of souvenirs which have 
been provided by generous contrib
utors from leading industrial firms.
Relaxation after the strenuous 
work of studying and exams of the 
past semester may be had by attend
ing the banquet. This was recom
mended by Dr. Jones as an ideal 
form of relaxing after the semester, 
so take his advice and be sure to at
tend.
Tickets may be procured either 
from Evening Student Council of
ficers, members of the Social Com
mittee, or by writing to Evening 
Student Council, Box 353, C. I. T., 
also at the registrars office any 
evening.
*7 *7<4e fs&Uvi
Dear Editor:
Several months ago, at the begin
ning of the school year, a number 
of students were selected as mem
bers of the Evening School Social 
Committee. These committee mem
bers have performed their extra
curricular duties so aptly and have 
given Evening Student Council 
such complete cooperation that it is 
only just that they should receive 
due recognition. Furthermore, at 
the beginning of the next regular 
term there will be an election of 
School Officers, and logically those 
of the committee members who 
have earned Insignia Awards will 
be among those eligible and fitted 
to hold Office, therefore the student 
body should take note of those men
tioned at this time!
Serving as Asst Social Chairman, 
George Riffle quietly and earnestly 
planned and worked to make the 
parties and dances successful; next 
year he will plan even better socials 
(unless the Draft Board interfers). 
So many of the others gave out
standing service according to their 
individual talents that it is impossi
ble to mention them individually;
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order 
at 2:15 P. M. Roll call revealed that 
all the members were present with 
the exception of Mr. Carnvale who 
arrived later.
Mr. Macha reported that there 
has been nothing definitely decided 
on the Handbook, but that a report 
may be expected at the next meet
ing.
Mr. Flanders made the report that 
the tax money due the government 
for the school year is $19.01. Mr. 
Marcinizyn reported that after 
straightening the treasurers books, 
last years council wound up the 
school year with a deficit of $98.89. 
The bank balance up to date is 
$527.06 as reported by Mr. Macha.
Mr. Marcinizyn, Mr. Macha, and 
Mr. Flanders met with Mr. Thomas 
the business manager of the TAR
TAN on Friday. After considerable 
discussion Mr. Thomas explained 
that he anticipated $250.00 from the 
Plaid in his revised budget and ask
ed for an additional $400.00 from 
Day Council to wind up the year out 
of the red. Based on these facts the 
TARTAN received the $400.00. The 
Committee recommended that the 
$250.00 be paid the TARTAN for 
the Plaid portion of the newspaper. 
Miss Lewis seconded the motion and 
council agreed. Mr. Marcinizyn re
ported that council has not always 
received a statement from the ad
ministration as to activities fees 
paid to Evening Student Council 
when such payments were made. 
It developed that the money was 
deposited directly in the bank ac
cording to this procedure it is im
possible to ascertain the amounts 
involved which leads to complicahowever a list of their names is as 
follows: Robert Aungst, Robert
Bassett, Philip Boyle, James Flah
erty, Marion Frost, John Groll, Ed
gar Hamilton, Mary Hensler, John 
Hundertmark, Harvey Johnson, 
Robert Lenigan, Nancy Lewis, Pearl 
Pettola, Robert Poznanski, Ray
mond Thompson, Mary Jo Weber, 
Edward Williams, Robert Wilhelm.
Obviously, many of these commit
tee members are at present in the 
army or will be in the army (Bob 
Bassett leaves April 17), but they 
will be back to school after the War 
and will then make very good 
school officers  so keep them in 
mind!
Any of our committee members 
will testify that participation in ex
tra curricular activities is r*ot sim
ply work; it is, instead, recreation 
with a purpose. Many have been 
the friendships molded during the 
past year as a result of the associa
tions brought about by Night School 
extra-curricular programs. Friend
ships, however, are not the sole gain 
from participation in activities, for 
there are more personal gains with
in reach of all Night Students; that 
is, there are opportunities for perr 
sonality growth and development 
such as are rarely afforded in other 
environments.
tions, in keeping the treasurers 
books up to date. Mr. Marcinizyn 
felt that a check for the money 
should be sent directly to the Stu
dent Council, or the comptrollers 
office should make sure that coun
cil is sent a statement for the 
amount of fees paid.
Due to the uncertainity of a night 
school next year, it was felt that 
the election of a new Council Pres
ident should be held with the as
sumption that should there be no 
night school next year the pres
ent Council will continue until there 
is night school at which time the 
new president will assume office. 
Mr. Marcinizyn declined when ask
ed to again be president next year 
and added further that he had no 
recommendations beforeelections 
proceeded. Nominations for the of
fice of Evening Student Council 
President for the following year 
were opened. Mr. Flanders and Mr. 
Macha were nominated. The first 
ballot count was: 4 to 3. A major
ity of 5 council members was not 
reached and while discussion was 
progressing Mr. Carnvale arrived 
and the election was voided. Mr. 
Macha and Mr. Flanders were again 
nominated. Balloting proceeded. 
Mr. Flanders was elected the new 
Council President.
Final budgets for St. Patricks 
Party (March 20), Swimming Party 
(March 6), and Spring Party (April
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Editor Nancy E. Lewis 
News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
StaffRobert Bassett Edward A. MachaAlbert Flanders S. W. MarcinizynJohn Groll Caroline NollMary Hensler D. Pettigrew, Jr.JohnHundertmark Pearl PettolaAlbert Kersturokos
4) showed the respective costs 
$6.36, $7.00, and $5.34.
Mr. Macha reported that plans for 
the Annual College of Engineering 
Banquet were complete and that is 
would be held in the English Room 
of the Fort Pitt Hotel on May 8.
Discussion on the President and 
Treasurer Advisory Committee and 
class representation was tabled.
Mr. Riffle as chairman of the In
signia Committee is to have his re
port completed for the next meet
ing.
Council requested President Mar
cinizyn to write a letter to Presi
dent Doherty in regards to the 
grape-vine report of the secretive 
existence of a Student conference 
group of which Evening Student 
Council has been ignored.
Council adjourned at 4:30.
Evening Engineering Courses Offered
Students following a degree program should schedule one of the following sub
jects, in accordance with information on pages 7-23 of the 1942-43 Catalog of Evening 
Courses: C-54b, C-109, C-110, C-401, C-402, C-501, E-801, E-802, E-20 or E-21.
Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans for the Sup
plementary Term should call at the Registrars Office.
Eight-Week Subjects, April 27 to June 18, 1943
C52 Trigonometry (8).........................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 135-C ($28.80)
C-53b Calculus I (8)..............................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 135-E ($28.80)
C-54a Calculus II (8)............................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 215 ($28.80)
C-54b Calculus III (8)...........................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 135-F ($28.80)
*C-109 English Composition (9).........................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 131-C ($32.40)
*C-110 English Composition (9).........................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 131-C ($32.40)
*C-401 Economics 1(9)..........................................M.Th. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 236-B ($32.40)
*C-402 Economics II (9).........................................Tu.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 236-B ($32.40)
*C-501 Introductory Psychology (9)....................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 247 ($32.40)
*E20 Mechanics I (9).........................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30 Ind. 119-A ($32.40)
*E21 Mechanics II (9)..........................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 115 ($32.40)
E-81b Physics I (7^)6................................Rec. M.W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 207;
Lab. M.W. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 204, 102 ($27.00) 
E-81b Physics II (7M>)................................Rec. M.W. 7:30-8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 205;
Lab. M.W. 8:30-10:30, E.H. 107,-300-B ($27.00) 
Ten-Week Subjects, April 27 to July 2, 1943
*E-801 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. I (9).............................M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 346 ($32.40)
*-802 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. II (9).........................M.W.F 7:30-10:30, Ind. 346 ($32.40)
Vocational Courses 
Ten-Week Subjects, April 27 to July 2, 1943
*C-92 Vocational Mathematics..................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 208 ($28.80)
*C93 Algebra I............................................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 209 ($28.80)
*C94 Plane Geometry.................................................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 211 ($28.80)
*C95 Elementary Trigonometry..............................M.W.F. 7:30- 9:30, Ind. 215 $28.80)
*V-301 Mechanical Drawing A...........................M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
*V-302 Mechanical Drawing B...........................M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
*V-303 Mechanical Drawing C..........................................................................M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
*V-304 Mechanical Drawing D...........................M.W. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 319 ($14.40)
Seven-Week Subjects, April 2 7to June 12, 1943 
V-281a Oxy-Acetylene Welding I ($26.40)
.M.W.F. 7:00-10:00, Ind. 7V-281b Oxy-Acetylene Welding II ($26.40)
V-282a Electric Arc Welding I ($26.40)
V-282b Electric Arc Welding II ($26.40).
The TUITION FEE for each subject is indicated in () following the room number. 
Students may register for either half or both halves of subjects marked*; the tuition 
fee for either half of such subjects is one-half of the amount indicated in () above. 
The $5.00 matriculation fee will be charged to students who have not previously paid 
it. The general fee is not charged in the Supplementary Term.
REGISTRATION will be held during the week of April 14 to 20, and on Monday, 
April 26, between 7:00 and 9:00, and on Wednesday, April 28, between 6:30 and 7:15 
in the Registrars Office. Registration for the second half of the ten-week subjects 
marked * will be held Monday, June 7, between 7:00 and 7:30. In registering, stu
dents should present their original registration receipt cards.
The SCHEDULE OF CLASSES goes into effect Tuesday evening, April 27. Sub
jects with less than ten registrants may be withdrawn.
Beginning May 2, the Registrars Office will be open in the evening only on Mon
days. Students who withdraw before the close of the middle of the term of the sub
ject scheduled, may receive a partial refund of tuition fee in accordance with the re
fund plan stated on pages xiii and xiv of each of the Catalogs of Evening Courses,, 
1942-43.
