VOL. XII. NO. 17
BASKET BALL 
FRIDAY 
GROVE CITYcThr daran
JUNIOR PROM 
RITTENHOUSE 
FEBRUARY 25, 1918
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAFEBRUARY 6, 1918
PROM ASSURED OF MUSIC BY SIX OF CITYS BEST PLAYERS
.All Arrangements Are Plan
ned to be of Best, But 
Favors AretDropped
SCALZO TO PLAY
After working but one week on the 
JProm, the committee already has the 
dance ready to serve on a silver plat
ter. A1 Riebles orchestra, one of the 
"best six piece combinations in the 
city, has been secured to play and the 
program is now being considered with 
"them. The orchestra will include such 
as Scalzo, Levant, and Morrow, the 
first of these having been secured by 
Special favor only through his inter
est in the Tech Musical Clubs. Anyone 
who is acquainted with these music
ians or who has attended an affair at 
which they played will be willing to 
-propresy that the Prom will be a mu
sical success at any rate.
The committee, after considerable 
discussion, has decided to abandon 
favors entirely, but there will be a 
neat little program to serve as a keep
sake. -Furthermore certain novelty 
stunts are being planned so that the 
dancers will .be an audience aswell as 
performers.
; Feeling that the Junior Prom comes 
but once a year, and that most men 
are Juniors but once in a lifetime, the 
-Junior classes are baclcifig the affair 
to a man, but also need the Seniors 
and Alumni to do their share. The 
committee is working hard to have 
"the best ever. on the twenty-first and 
are bidding fair to succeed both in mu
sic and in everything else..
DEAN MOTT TRUSTEE 
FOR SENIORS FUND
The selection of a suitable memorial 
to the Science Class of 1918 has been 
added to the official duties of the Dean 
of the School of Applied Science. Ever 
since the class entered, its breakage 
tees have been accumulating with the 
understanding that they are to be in
vested in a class gift to the school 
upon the graduation of the present 
seniors.
Due to the national cjrsis, the class 
voted to invest their savings in Lib
erty Bonds and to leave them with 
a permanent official of the college to 
be kept in trust until redeemed, at 
which time they are to be turned into 
a suitable memorial. Two hundred 
dollars is thus invested, and a smaller 
amount has been expended for War 
Savings Stamps. The collection and 
investment of the interest has been 
left to. Mr. Heyl, who has promised to 
care for the class funds until they are 
permanently used for the memorial. 
The officers of the class are to keep in 
touch with Dean Mott regarding this 
matter, for the redemption of the 
bonds and the memorial are so far 
away at present that one is likely to 
forget the men of 18 and wonder what 
they left their alma mater.
In reply to the latter asking Dean 
Mott to accept the trusteeship of the 
class funds he said:
"I shall be glad to assist the class 
in every way possible and will, accept 
your offer of the trusteeship. In do
ing this, I wish to congratulate the 
class upon the attitude they have tak
en in this matter' and I am sure that 
succeeding classes will be stimulated 
to leave similar memorials which will 
be of lasting benefit to the student 
body of the School, of Applied Sci
ence.
*****************
4*
4- TARTAN STAFF *
* --------- *
4* There will be a meeting of The 4* 
4* Tartan staff, Thursday, at 5:30 in 4* 
4* the Tartan office. The following 4 
men must be present if they wish 4* 
4 to continue with the work, and 4* 
4* no excuse will be accepted unless 4* 
4* presented to the Editor-in-Chief 4* 
4* before the meeting: 4*
Paquin 4*
4 Emerich 4*
4* Gare 4*
4* Levin 4
4 McNamara 4*
4* Avery 4*
4* Hall 4*
4 Meinhold 4*
Bingham 4*
4* Stone, A. C. 4*
4* Sissman 4*
4 Nicholson 4*
4* Smith, F. J. 4*
4* Cohen, M. S. 4*
4* 4*
+ 4* * + + 4-* 4* 4-4* 4* + 4-4* 4-4-4-
UNIFORMS SHOULD DE 
ORDERED DY FED. 10
The latest action of the military 
committee taken on uniforms is that 
they recommend that all orders for 
the same be placed before February 
10. In doing so all possibilities of de
lays in deliveries may be avoided and 
also the complication of affairs among 
the students if the uniforms are not 
secured before the twenty-fifth of Feb
ruary.
They also emphasize the fact that 
khaki uniforms be obtained so as to 
have a standard. The possibility was 
that a few students might have secur
ed serge uniforms and others of a bet
ter quality than khaki in order to 
show up the remaining students. 
However, unless a khaki uniform is 
worn in all drills and parades, no ser
vice marks will be given. The com
mittee does not object if an extra good 
uniform is purchased to be worn when 
calling on some fair friend.
PLEDES SCORE VICTORY 
OVER C0RA0P0LIS HIGH
VARSITY WILL PLAY 
GROVE CITY FRIDAY
Coach McCullough has his hands full 
this week.- Tomorrow night he will 
take the plaid tossers up to Washing
ton, Pa., to try to avenge their recent 
defeat at the hands of the Red and 
Black of W. and J.
Next Friday, February 8, our quin
tet will play Grove City College in 
the Field House. If the team plays 
anywhere near the excellent basket
ball demonstrated last Saturday even
ing, a victory ought easily be gained. 
The lineup will no doubt be somewhat 
similar to that of the Allegheny game. 
Abrams and Doherty or Hoban at For
ward, Gretz at center and Kofoed 
and Cosgrove or Williams at guard.
Due to the poor support shown by 
the students, no dance will follow this 
game. Admission is fifty cents down 
stairs and twenty-five cents with stu
dent book. The admission is free up
stairs with student book, or twentyfive cents without. Thus far, the bas
ketball team has been a failure finan
cially due largely to the poor support 
shown by the student body. It is hop(Continued From Page Four.)
DRAMA LEAGUE SEES 
TECH PRODUCTION
Discussion of Muncipal Thea
ter by Dean Bossange
The preliminary game of Saturday 
night was fully as thrilling as the 
varsity game. The Plebes triumphed 
over Coraopolis to the tune of 40-24. 
Coach McCulloch kept Lynn out of the 
lineup until the last quarter, so as to 
have him fresh for the varsity game 
in case of emergency. Lind started in 
his place.
The contest was very close up to 
the last quarter. The first quarter 
ended 8-7, favor Tech, the second 15-15, 
and the third 23-22, favor Tech. In the 
last quarter, the Plebes played their 
opponents off their feet, making a to
tal of seventeen points to Coraopolis 
two. Lynn, only in the game a few 
minutes, succeeded in making three 
field goals. The lineup was as follows: 
Coraopolis24. 1 Tech40.
McCabe w.............F.............................. Lind
Oels .........................F................... Hamman
Stoops ....................C.......................... Bieber
Rock .......................G............................ Leete
Smith ......................G......................... Nichol
Substitutions  Lynn for Lind; 
Maurer for Lynn. Field GoalsMc
Cabe^ 3; Oles, 1; Stoops, 1; Smith, 1; 
Lind, 1; Hamman, 3; Bieber, 5; 
Nichol, 1; Lynn, 3; Maurer, 1. Foul 
GoalsMcCabe, 12 out of 20; Bieber, 
12 out of 17-. RefereeMr. Eyman.
LOITERING IN HALLS IS 
FORBIDDEN BY MAJOR
In order to improve the military ap[pearance of the institute, and partic
ularly to instill more discipline into 
the life of the students outside of drill 
hours, Major Lyle has posted an or
der forbidding loitering on the part of 
students in the halls of the different 
mens schools. Students are to walk 
through the halls with military car
riage and are to conduct themselves 
as soldiers, refraining from such de
sultory habits as reclining on radiat
ors and window-sills, and walking 
with hands in pockets. This ruling 
applies especially to the behavior of 
students in the Central Building.
4*4a4,4(4*4,4l4a4a44a4'4,4l4*4<4*4* 
4- *
4 TO THEM 4*
4* THERE'* 4
4* ----------- 4*
4* Tartans Tickle 4*
4* Trench-digging Techites. 4*
4* 75 cents mailed to them. 4*
4* / 4*
+ **4* + + 4- + 4. + + 4. + + + + + *
The Pittsburgh Branch of The Dra
ma League of America was enter
tained Monday evening, January 28, in 
the theater of School of Applied De
sign, when Molieres A Doctor in 
Spite of Himself was presented by 
the drama students. The play was 
cordially received and at its conclu
sion Dean. E. R. Bossange addressed 
the meeting on the very interesting 
subject of a Municipal Theater. The 
address was able, brief and to the 
point, giving the latest data on this 
movement in all quarters of the globe, 
the speaker having beeh in direct 
communication with the authorities 
quoted.
That municipal theaters are desir
able, but expensive items in a city's 
budget was manuifest and that the open 
air theater was the most practical so
lution of the matter under present 
conditions. Dean Bossange .then threw 
the meeting open for general discus
sion. Mr. Teller spoke of the Play
ground movement as the beginning of 
dramatic expression and urged its 
support and extension, that it might 
bear the fruit of dramatic appreciation 
in later years.
Mr. Allan Davis, of the University 
of Pittsburgh, made a strong plea for 
co-operation between the play writing 
department of the University and the 
play producing department of Tech, 
on the grounds of mutual benefit. I-Ie 
spoke of the Syria Mosque perform
ance of Thomas Wood Stevens pa
geant, The Drawing of the Sword, 
December 12, saying its power and 
dramatic situations amazed him, and 
made it one of the best pageants he 
had ever witnessed.
By unanimous assent, Dean Bos
sange was then appointed a committee 
of one, to take up the movement in 
this city and inquire into its possibil
ities for the summer season. The 
meeting then adjourned until Febru
ary 14, when the Play Reading Club 
will meet in the teachers room of 
Carnegie Library to discuss Gals
worthy's The Fugitive, Sutros 
Freedom, etc. These meetings are 
open to anyone interested.
FIRST FORMAL CONCERT 
FOR CLORS THIS WEEK
DIRECTOR HAMERSCHLAG RECEIVES . APPOINTMENT AS CIVILIAN AIBE
j*4.4.|.4.4.rj.4.4.,j.4.4.4.4..j.4.4. .j.
4* 4*
THEATRE PARTY 4*
4* ---------- 4*
On Thursday evening, Febru4* 
4* ary 7, Tech students will be the 4 
4* guests of the National Associa4 
4* tion of Builders Exchange at a 4* 
4* performance of The Land of 4* 
4* Joy, at the Nixon Theatre. 4* 
4- The girls from M. M. C. S. will 4 
4* occupy the reserved seats in the 4* 
4* second balcony, and the remain4* 
4* ing students will occupy the rest 4* 
4* of the second balcony. 4*
4> 4*
4*4*4-4*44*4'4*4*44-4'4*4'4'4*4'
Is in Charge of Industrial 
Branch of Quartermas
ters Corps of Army
REGISTRAR ACTING HEAD
Home Concert Date Moved 
Ahead; Was March 15
4*4*4*4*4*4'4,4'4*4'4*444'4*4*4* 
* *
4* THISTLE BOARD 4-
4* ---------- +
4* There will be a meeting of the 4* 
4* entire Thistle Board, Friday at 4* 
4* 5:15 p. m., in the Margaret Mor 4* 
4 rison School.
4* 4-
4-4-4-4* 4* 4* 4-4-4* 4-4* 4* 4-4-4-4* 4-
Evidence that the examinations 
were over was shown by the attend
ance at tne rehearsal of the Musical 
Clubs last Sunday. The men wero put 
through very satisfactory programs 
and the way they responded was 
splendid.
The executive committee had a very 
important meeting after the rehearsal 
in which the details of the trip next 
Thursday were worked out. The clubs 
leave Pittsburgh about five oclock 
Thursday afternoon, February 7, for 
tlie first formal concert of the season 
at Latrobe, Pa. There will be a special 
car on the train for the men, and din
ner will probably be served upon the 
arrival at Latrobe.
The names of the men who are to 
make the trip will be announced in 
special rehearsals for both clubs this 
week, the Glee Club meeting Tuesday 
night ahcn.he Mandolin Club Wednes
day evening.
The date of the Home Concert has 
been changed from March 15 to a later 
date. This change had to bo made, 
due to the Manager's failure to obtain 
the Husic Hall for the night of the 
fifteenth. The exact date will be an
nounced next week.
WAR SAVINGS STAMP 
CHAPTER ORGANIZED
At a special assembly called at onefifteen on Monday, the Honorable 
James F. Burke addressed the Mar
garet Morrison girls. The theme of 
the address was thrift and War Sav
ings Stamps. A committee consisting 
of Mrs. Brown, Mrs. Burke and Miss 
Callery accompanied Mr. Burke with 
a supply of the stamps which they af
terward sold to the girls. At the sug
gestion of this committee, Dean Breed 
appointed a committee of three girls 
Florence Bechtel, Student Govt. 
President, Charlotte Tross and Gladys 
Fleming, to continue selling the 
stamps and to organize teams in the 
school. Mr. Burke then said that we 
could organize a chapter with a char
ter from the United States Treasury. 
A motion was carried that, in honor of 
Dean Bfeed, who 4s so interested in all 
the -.patriotic movements, a Mary 
Breed War Savings Stamp Chapter 
be formed in Margaret Morrison 
School.
INCIDENTALLY
We have heard that one of our 
friends, who left rather suddenly and 
without explanation after the exams, 
has upon returning home told his fair 
friend that he was once Edltor-inChief of The Tartan, Commander-InChief of Techs army, and Basketball 
Manager. Thats all. Its a pity he 
did not wait a week longer until the 
Director left.
DESIGN
LEAGUE FOR WAR WORK
After much discussipn and several 
meetings the girls ; of Design School 
have definitely organized a War Work 
League. The impetus came with the 
change of schedules brough^ about by 
the men taking military drill. The 
girls felt that they could give up some 
of their time to strict practical war 
work. They decided, as a body, that 
each girl should give at least three 
hours every week to one of the three 
types of war work offered: Sociology, 
particularly connected with war prob
lems; First Aid, or practical Red 
Cross worksurgical dressings, etc. 
There is nothing compulsory about the 
work; it is expected, however,, that 
each girl will do her share. On Tuesday, 
January 29, the girls definitely organi
zed taking as the name Tech Design 
War Work League, with Miss Ellen B. 
Crowe as chairman; Miss Katherine 
Harris, vice chairman; Miss Anna C. 
Dice, secretary, and Miss Eloise MeMahn, treasurer. The women of the 
Twentieth Century Club and of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church Aux
iliaries have offered the girls their as
sistance and with the opening, Febru
ary 11, the work should be in full 
swing.
ALLEOHENY DEATS TECH 
IN VERY CLOSE CAME
Last Saturday night at the Field 
House, our basket ball team succeeded 
in holding the fast Allegheny College 
quintet to the score of 25-17. In view 
of the fact that Allegheny had beaten 
Pitt by a 33-17 score the night before, 
our team has reason to be proud of its 
showing. The largest crowd of the 
season witnessed the game and cheer
ed the boys along. The band did its 
share in livening things up.
The Allegheny team entered the 
game apparently confident of an easy 
victory. They were soon shown, how
ever, that they would have to fight 
hard for every point. After the first 
few minutes of play, the scoro stood 
3-1 in favor of Allegheny. Then for a 
few minutes we played rings around 
them. Abrams caged four field goals 
in a row, all of them from mid-field 
So well were both goals guarded that 
both teams found it necessary through(Continued on Page Four.)
TECH PLAYS WILL DE. 
PRODUCED THIS YEAR
As announced in a previous issue of 
The Tartan, the Drama Department of 
Applied Design intends this year to 
inaugurate a system of producing a 
series of what might be,called Tech 
Plays, that is, plays written by stu
dents of Dramatic Composition, and 
produced hero for the first time on 
any stage.
The first real Tech Play produced 
here was given last year. It was The 
Weevils, by Sara E. Bennett, and 
proved very successful, in fact, the 
theater was crowded at each of the 
numerous performances.
The first plays of the sories to be 
given this year have boon past, and 
are now In reharsal. The plays are 
That Strange Girl Zisco," by Bronwen Chubb, and A Romance of Lap
land, by Sara E. Bennett. The casts 
are as follows:
That Strange Girl Ziaco/
Alllo ...Ellen Crowe, Bronwen Chubb
Joel................................. David S. Gaither
Myron .................................. Win, Mulligan
Elmer......................Bishop I. Dickenson
A Romance of Lapland.
Nala ....................................... Mary Rlcards
Kilnara .....................Voolanto Bollinger
Conan ................................. .Tamos Church
Ashnu ................................ Hugo Taustino
Soegard ................... Matthew MacAteer
Viking............................... Goorgo Trabort
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS 
ANNOUNCED AT M. M. C. S
Each year the alumnae of the Pitts
burgh Female College, a school no 
longer in existence, but whoso good 
influence is still felt, award a $50 
scholarship to the Junior or Senior 
student of Margaret Morrison who has 
made the highest scholastic standing. 
This year Miss Inez Potts of the Jun
ior class was the recipient. During 
the first semester of this school year 
she carried nineteen credits, eleven 
of which came out with a grade of H. 
However there were two very close 
seconds in the competitionMiss 
Abigail Kerr of the Senior class and 
Miss Dorothy Davis of the Junior 
class also. Miss Potts and Miss Kerr 
have both received scholarships in 
previous years.
Director Hamersclilag, after fifteen 
years of practically uninterrupted 
work In the service of Tech, left at the 
end of last week for Washington to 
accept a position as head of the re
search department of the Quartermas
ters Corps, U. S. A. Dr. Hamersclilags 
appointment by General Goethals was 
a complete surprise to those not on 
the inside, but. had evidently been 
contemplated for some time, since the 
director had already been granted 
leave of absence for the duration of 
the war by the board of trustees of 
the institute. Meanwhile A. W. Tarbell, registrar and dean of the new 
central school, will be the acting head 
of the four schools.
Important among the duties of Dr. 
Hamersclilag will be the industrial re
vision of storage and traffic in connec
tion with war material and supplies. 
This work will seek to reduce the bulk 
of supplies that are sent to the Army 
abroad. This will have to do with the 
packing and the loading upon ships of 
thousands of articles, including food, 
clothing and other things necessary to 
warfare abroad. He will also liavo 
charge of a scientific co-ordination of 
the work of the corps along lines that 
have boon established in the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. Dr. Hainorschlag is already at work in the office 
of Gen. Goethals reviewing the situa
tion and preparing his plans of opera
tion. This Is hold to be a distinct stop 
toward scientific efficiency In the pros
ecution of the war and Is In keeping 
with the perfecting of systems in 
other branches of the administration.
Tho fact that the director has boon 
called, away from Toch at this time 
when tho schools work Is heaviest 
shows how Important the task which 
ho Is undertaking must ho. Just at 
present Toch Is deop In war work of 
very vital nature. Tho school Is train
ing largo classos In radio work undor 
an Improved system which increases 
spood over 100 per eont. Tho system 
was worlcod out hero at Toch for tho 
first timo, and has1 already been initi
ated In other schools. Toch was tho 
first In this sootion of the country to 
ho recognized by military authorities 
as an Inlonslvo technical training in
stitution for Army craftsmen. At prosont squads of soldiers from various 
camps are taking 30-day courses In 
engineering, the maintenance of mo
tor trucks and aeroplanes.
Meanwhile all tho work of tho In
stitute Is going on undor tho direction 
of Roglstrar Tarboll, Director Hamorschlag will return to Pittsburgh now 
and then to look, over tho work of tho 
school and assist in any problems 
which may arise.
ENGAGEMENT OF FORMER 
ATHLETE IS ANNOUNCED
The engagement of George Finlay, 
our former football and basketball 
star, to Miss Mildred England, a plebe 
last year in Margaret Morrison, was 
announced on January 19, 1918, at 
Miss Englands home in Willcinsburg, 
Pa. Red, white and blue flags were 
everywhere in the house in honor of 
the naval service with which Mr. Fin
lay is connected.
INSTRUCTOR APPOINTED 
FOR NEW RADIO COURSE
Mr; Burton P. Williams has boon 
appointed a member of the faculty of 
tho School of Applied Industries, In
structor for the new day course in 
Radio and Buzzar Operation. This 
course will bo largely filled with men 
who have enlisted in tho Aviation 
Corps, and are advised by the local 
recruiting office, Capt. Hamilton, to se
cure as much instruction in radio op
eration as they can before being call
ed for active duty to the camps.
TECH GIRLS PLAN TO 
FORM DRANCH Y. W. C. A.
On Thursday, February 7, at six 
o'clock, the charter meeting of tho 
Tech Y. W. C. A. will be held in Rec
reation Hall. Every girl in the insti
tute is heartily invited to be present, 
faculty as well as students. The girls 
are requested by the social committee 
to bring sandwiches or light lunch and 
cocoa will be served at five. There 
will be a short devotional service af
ter which a resume of attempts to 
form an association in the school will 
be made. An opportunity will be giv
en for everyone present to sign tho 
charter. Miss Phyllis , McMarlin will 
sing, and each committee chairman 
will give a short talk on the plans of 
her committee. Night students may 
find this a particularly enjoyable and 
refreshing service before their even
ing of study, and day students will 
have an opportunity to pause and 
think below the surface after a day 
of hard work.
INDUSTRIES INSTRUCTOR 
MAKES INSPECTION TRIP
Mr. William Pfouts made an in
spection trip last week to the WilburWright Aviation Field and airplane 
factory at Dayton, Ohio, in connection 
with War Course No. 3Airplano 
Maintenance and Ropalrs.
2 I *2 * 2 c.j j 2* >2* 4* 4* 4* 4*
4* 4*
4* CANDIDATES 4
4* for Assistant Basketball Man4
4 ager. Report in the Gymnasium 4
4* an afternoon, 4:30-5:30. 4*
4* 4
4,4,4,4*4,4,4,4,4,4,4,4*4*4*4,4*HK
^

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, February 6, 1918
Gffrg Sfartatt
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postoifice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c tho copyCanada, $1.75
Bu8lnc80 Manager
Phone Grant 388-R. 
Phono Schenley 2200-J
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Aooistant Managing, Editor
L. E. Emerioh 
Night Editor 
JuIIub Foster 
Editoro 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants
Marguerite Haldeman 
Margarot Lappe 
Anno McCandlaHB 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162' Desl0n
Hours2:00 to 4:00 Mon days.
4:30 to 5:00 Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chlef Is responsible lor the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported
at once.______________________________________________________________________-------
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if deBired.
All news items must be in the student postofllce, Central Building before 
noon on Mondays. __________________________________28*3s2gtD
DIRECTOR HAMERSCHLAG
Director Ilamerschlags sudden appointment as civilian aide on 
the personnel staff o the Quartermaster-General of the U. S. Army is 
a cause both o pleasure and for regret. The honor conferred upon 
Dr. Himerschlag personally in placing him in charge of Industrial 
Research, and through him upon the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is certainly gratifying; but at the same time the directors absence 
from the Institute at the time when Tech is doing her greatest work 
is greatly to be regretted. It must not be doubted that the work be
ing accomplished here is vital, but certainly the task to which the 
director has been called is of even greater consequencenational in
stead of local. The regular Scholastic instruction at Tech, together 
with the many new war courses, will continue for the present under 
the direction of Registrar Tarbcll. The directors absence will be the 
VOL. felt in that there is someone acquainted with the office ready to 
take ovor its duties.
COTTON UNIFORMS ONLY
The question of providing military supplies seems to be capable 
of causing dissention as easily at Tech as in the 1J. S. Senate. Here 
we are concerned only with uniforms, but the proposition, even so, 
is sufficiently perplexing. The development of the matter up to the 
present order provides a bit; of leather complex history.
In the iirst place it, was originally decided to place orders for all 
the students through Mr. Orbins office. However, it was soon dis
covered that the administration would be up against the exceedingly 
difficult proposition of offering to the students uniforms ordered 
through Pittsburgh stores at. a price higher than that at which orders 
rim be placed through private pommis with Now York concerns, 
since the latter companies have 110 stores to maintain and no overhead 
expenses to meet. The plan was accordingly abandoned, but no an
nouncement made to that effect.
So far so good, Intl. here the t,rouble began. The military committeo posted a notice saying that uniforms may be purchased at local 
stores at. prices ranging from ninedollars to forty dollars. The 
question of collective or individual ordering was not settled until 
several days later when another notice stated each student must 
procure bis own uniform before February 125. The question of qual
ity was, however, still up in the air, and several student agents were 
taking orders for all sorts of uniforms, serge as well as cotton. They 
were evidently in tile right at that time, since the committee had given 
us a latitude of nine to forty dollars, and in a third announcement 
had urged students to purchase the best uniforms possible since that 
would be real economy in the long run.
All this caused rather a mixup on a question about which there 
should have been the greatest uniformity. The Central Student. Coun
cil even went so far as to post petitions in the four schools for the sig
nature of those who wished one standard uniform adopted. While 
those petitions were attracting considerable attention, the military 
Committee settled the matter once for all by posting the following ex
tract from the minutes of their meeting: Since it has come to the 
attention of the Military Committee that certain students are placing 
orders for serge uniforms, it was decided to again call attention to 
the fact that the official school uniform is cotton khaki and that this 
must be worn at all school drills.
That was unquestionably the sensible thing to do, the thing 
which should have been done in the first place. The decision will un
doubtedly be enforced and any orders for serge uniforms should be 
cancelled at once.
STOLEN!
From Machinery Hall, January 30, one aeroplane magneto, prop
erty ol the United States Government. Unless returned immcdiatcl 
the party will be prosecuted by Foderai Authorities.
ly,
VACCINATION INSTRUCTIONS MODIFIED
Referring to the Director's posted notice of January 22 that the 
faculty, students and employes should be vaccinated 011 account of 
the unusual number of smallpox cases reported by the City Board of 
Health, and in view also of Dr. Marks report that there had been a 
sudden abatemeut of the smallpox epidemic since the notice of the
22nd, with a consequent modification of the citys instructions rela
tive to the necessity of inoculation, it was voted by the Administrative 
Council on January 30, that vaccination at the Institute is not made 
compulsory at this time, but optional, and that every one referred to 
in the first phrase of this notice be strongly urged to comply with 
the request of the citys authorities, and be vaccinated as a safeguard 
to the health of our campus community.
A. W. TARBELL.
Replies have been received from Washington in answer to several 
questions regarding the Engineers Reserve. Men working for a B. S. 
in Architecture may enlist in the Reserve and remain in school, but 
those in the A. B. course may not. A further inquiry is being made 
on the latter point inasmuch as the Arts course at Tech is almost ex
actly similar to the Science course at some other institutions. Men 
taking the Commercial Engineering and pure Science courses in the 
Science School are eligible along with the other engineers. No one 
who has become of age since the Registration Day last June need 
make application for the Reserve, since he is not yet affected by the 
draft laws.
DONTS FOR PROM GIRLS
(The following is adapted from The Lafayette of January 31,
with only such changes as are appropriate with the change of schools.)
Dont, when asking a man what class he is in, begin with the Fresh
man class and work up. The reverse process is considered by 
local talent to be the thing this year.
Dont, say Frat. for-fraternity. The philosophers tell us that 
familiarity breeds contempt. Abbreviations may be applied only 
to proper names.
Dont ask for Butter knivesor Butter. This is war times.
Dont, ask any of the chaperones if their husbands are on the faculty.
Dont, look in closets, Tech has no medical school but skeletons are 
none the less common for that.
Don t, bite on the old one about Tau Beta Pi. Watch chain lceys are 
made in various designs.
Dont mention college widows. SSli I there arnt any.
Dont, ask the waiters any questions. Theyve never been in the 
house before either.
Dont under any conditions mention the words football, glee 
club or drillabove all, not drill.
Dont try to remember names. You cant keep it up anyway.
Dont ask to sec East Dorm or Bacteria Hall.
Dont wear those new slippers to the Prom. Theyll be ruined, my 
clear, simply ruined.
Dont remove any cigarettes from stray boxes. The contents have 
been carefully counted. Smoke your own.
Dont ask your dance partner why he didnt join T. N. T.
Dont ask for a drink. Specify water.
Dont bring your knitting to the college show.
Dont put anything in writing.
Dont believe all this stuff about "waiting for a call from the avia
tion.
Dont confuse the new faculty with the seniors. The latter often 
wear mustaches.
Dont ask about examinations. If he passed any liell tell you several 
times.
Dont confuse stags with staggerers.
STOPHAVE YOU LEFT ANYTHING.
SPRING TRACK SQUAD 
STARTS REAL TRAINING
Coach Eyman is starting to (.min th 
Spring Traelc Squad In earnest this 
week and VL anxious to bave all available material'meet; him at th Gymn 
to malte suitable arrangements fr 
their indoor preiimlnary training.
Mer| who start training will he excuaed Croni a portimi of milit.ary drlll 
li! timi; drlll cornea t.ho last tlilng In 
th ai'tomoon.
RED CROSS WORK FOR 
DESIGN GIRL . TO DEGIN
The girls in Design School were ad
dressed last Friday by Miss Smith and 
Mrs. Verner of the Twentieth Century 
Club, also by Miss Sturteyant, Miss 
Hanna and Mrs. Aime, of the M. M. C. 
S. Faculty, regarding war courses in 
which they might be interested. The 
girls are to use the small museum in 
the Design School for their work, 
which Will be scheduled during the 
hours the boys have military drill.
count of the death of his father.
Mr, Karl Henning, a 1916 graduate 
of our Department of Mechanical En
gineering, was appointed instructor 
in War Course No. 3, Air Engine Main
tenance.
Director Hamerschlag and Deans 
Connelley and Mott were in Washing
ton last week in connection with ad
ditional war courses which are likely 
to be given at. the Institute.
Dr. G. M. Whipple spoke on Dem
onstration and Description of Mental 
Tests before the Pedagogical and 
EugenicsSection of the Pittsburgh 
Academy of Science and Art in the 
Schenley High School on January 29.
Dr. Allen II. Willett spoke recently 
before the Colloquim Club of Pitts
burgh on "Some Economic Aspects of 
the War. The organization consists 
of women connected, with the Penn
sylvania Coilege for Women.
NEXT GROUP FO WAR 
COURSE NO. 2 COMING
Captain Frederick P. Bender, Med
ical Reserve Corps, and First Lieu
tenant Arthur R. Porter, Jr., Medical 
Corps, now at Camp Greenleaf, Fort 
Oglethorpe, Ga., have been ordered to 
proceed with 15 enlisted men of the 
Medical Department of the Institute 
for one months intensive instruction 
in automobile maintenance and gas 
engine operation. They should arrive 
about February, S, which is the date 
set for the first group of enlisted men 
t;o finish the course, and return to the 
camps.
ITEMS OF INTEREST 
IN FACULTY BULLETIN
FACULTY OF GENERAL 
STUDIES BEGINS IN OCT.
This faculty will begin to function 
at the beginning of the fall quarter, 
October 1st, except that such instruc
tors as may be needed for the summer 
quarter will begin to render service 
July 1. The second semester of the 
current year will be devoted by the 
Dean to matters relating to organiza
tion, appointments and contracts.
By Corporal Jack TurnerCHURCHES
NOTICE!
The Charter meeting of the * 
1 Tech Y. W. C. A. will be held on !*
 Thursday, February 7, at 6 *
 oclock in Margaret Morrison *
 Recreation Hall. Bring your J
 lunch. Cocoa will be served at J
 5 oclock.
Major Lyle spoke before the Har
vard Club of Western Pennsylvania 
at; the University Club on Saturday 
evening, January 2(5.
Dr. .1. H. James has been appointed 
a member of the Employment Commit-1 
tee of the Pittsburgh Section of the! 
American Chemical Society.
Dr. L. O. Grondahl, on leave of ab
sence to do war research work at 
Johns Hopkins University, was called 
home to Minnesota last week on ac
4*-T ARN SFT+*-Ta
A cynic is a mail who will tell 
you the reason some fellows suc
ceed is because everybody else 
is too tired or too lazy to put up 
any opposition to them.
Honors are like underwear; 
you should take It for granted 
that people know you have them.
Any man who would sue a girl 
for breach of promise ought to 
be confined in an upholstered 
cell.
Ever notice how a small boy 
delights in standing under a big 
safe that is being hoisted to the 
to story of a building?
What tobacco really means to a sol
dier has been voiced in more poetry 
good, bad and indifferent, but always 
heartfeltthan almost any other ob
ject of the war. Here is a poem from 
the Brisish army which became so 
popular abroad that it has been re
printed and widely distributed.
When the cold is making ice cream of 
the marrow of your bones, - 
When youre shaking like a jelly and 
your feet are dead as stones, 
When your clothes and boots and blan
kets, and your rifle and your kit. 
Are soaked from Hell to Breakfast, and 
the dugout where you sit 
Is leaking like a basket, and upon the 
muddy floor 
The water lies in filthy pools, six 
inches deep or more;
Tho life seems cold and misrable 
and all the world is wet,
Youll always get thro somehow if 
youve got a cigarette.
When youre lying in a listening post, 
way out beyond the wire,
While a blasted Hun, behind a gun, 
is doing rapid fire;
When the bullets whine above your 
head, and sputter on the ground, 
When your eyes are strained for evry 
move, your ears for evry sound 
Youd bet your life a Hun patrol is 
prowling somewhere near;
A shiver runs along your spine thats 
very much life fear;
Youll stick it to  a finishbut, Ill 
make a little bet,
Youd feel a whrfle lot better if you 
had a cigarette:
When Fritz is starting something and 
his guns are on the bust,
When the parapet goes up in chunks, 
and settles in the dust,
When the roly-poly rum-jar coiiies awobbling thro the air,
Till it lands upon a dugoutand the 
dugout isnt there;
When the air is full of dust, and 
smoke, and scraps of steel and 
noise,
And you think youre booked for gold
en crowns and other Heavenly 
joys,
When your nerves are all a-tremble, 
and your brain is all a-fret
It isnt half so hopeless if youve got 
a cigarette.
When youre waiting for the whistle, 
and your foot is on the step,
You bluff yourself, its lots of fun, and 
all the time youre hep 
To the fact that you may stop one 
fore youve gone a dozen feet,
And you wonder what if feels like, 
and your thoughts are far from 
sweet;
Then you think about a little grave, 
with R. I. P. on top;
And you know youve got to .go across 
altho youd like to stop;
When your backbones limp as water, 
and youre bathed in icy sweat, 
Why, youll feel a lot more cheerful if 
you puff your cigarette.
IThen, when you stop a good one and 
the stretcher bearers come 
And patch you up with strings, and 
splints, and bandages, and gum; 
When you think youve got a million 
wounds and fifty thousand breaks, 
And your bodys just a blasted sack, 
packed full of pains and aches; 
Then you feel youve reached the fin
ish, and youre sure your numbers 
up,
And you feel as weak as Belgian beer, 
and helpless as a pup
But you know that youre not down 
and out, that lifes worth living 
yet,
When some old war-wise Red Cross 
guy slips you a cigarette.
We can do without MacConachies, and 
Bully, and hard tack,
When Fritzs curtain fire keeps the 
ration parties back,
We can. do without our greatcoats, 
and our socks, and shirts and 
shoes,
We might almosttho , I doubt it 
get along without our booze;
We can do without K. R. & O, and 
Military Law,
We . can beat the ancient Isrealites at 
making bricks; sans straw;
We can do without a lot of things, and 
still win out, you bet,
But Idhate to think, of soldiering 
without a cigarette.
,(l*-*(R'( FT ,TR-*(R(' <(N*T( OTHTRNTRFSection 112 of the national defense 
act of June 3, 1916, provides: When 
any officer or enlisted man of the Na
tional Guard drafted into the service 
of the United States in time of war 
Is disabled by reason of wounds or 
disability received or incurred while 
in the active service of the United 
States in time of war, he shall be en
titled to all the benefits of the pension 
laws existing at the time of his serv
ice, and in case such officer or enlisted 
man dies in the active service of the 
United States in time of war or in re
turning to his place of residence after 
being mustered out of such service, or 
at any other time in consequence of 
wounds or disabilities received in such 
active service, his widow and children, 
if any, shall be entitled to all the ben
efits of such pension laws.
There is no policy like politeness, 
and a good manner is the best thing 
in the world, either to get one a good 
name or to\ supply the want of it. 
Bulwer Lytton.
Too low they build, who build be
neath the stars.Young.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 an. 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holjp 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M, 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craigstreet.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45- P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN "" 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8.
Bible School 9:45.
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenuss 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. MPreaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and? 
3:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages* 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men's Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.
Bi5J5M5J5/5J5MS/5J5/5JS/5M5/5/5/S/5/S/51S/Sl51
RODEFSHALOM TEMPLE 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE 
Near Morewood 
| Saturday Services10:30 A. M.
3 Sunday Lectures10:30 A. M. 
Visiting Rabbis from the leading congregations of the country 
| will occupy the pulpit this win^ ter. A different Rabbi each
3 week.a 1M>
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETSFREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
OAKLAND M. E. CHURCH 
Forbes and Bouquet Streets 
Rev. George Avery Neeld,
M mister.
Morning Service at 10:45. 
Evenings at 7:45.
Bible School at 9:30 A. M.
Sermon Subject Sunday Evening 
December 16:
The Luxurious Philosophy of 
Dilettantism, or New Thought.
B/SiSMSiSMSMSJSJSiBJSiSJSMSMSMSiSIBiSIS7
OAKLAND 
METHODIST EPISCOPAL 
CHURCH 
Forbes and Bouquet Streets
Morning 'Service. 10:45 A.M.
Evening Service___  7:45 P. M.
Rev. George Avery Neld, 
Minister.
Bible School, 9:30 oclock 
Sunday Mornings.
Mid-week Prayer Service, 7:45 
oclock Wednesday evenings.
BASKE? PENCILS
These famous pen
cils are the standard 
by which all other 
pencils are judged.
17 black degrees 
6B softest to 911 hardest 
and hard and medium copying 
Look for he VENUS finish
/FREE !
Trial Samples of 
VENUS Pencils 
und Eraser sent.
Ilenso enclose 6c in stamps for packing
and postage.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
217 Fifth Avenue. Jv! Y.
Dept. W 27

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 6, 1918THE TARTANPage Three
HaaM3EiaEMSJ5MSMSiaEEEiaiaiBMSEJaiasMaiaiaisMaEHaMaaiai3H3
STUDENTS
We rent and have for sale Full Dress, Tuxedos, single and 
double breasted frocks, and all accessories for day and even
ing dress. Prices reasonable, efficient service.
4EM//MPY O>I<< <LM/ BSa
6001-2-3 JENKINS ARCADE 
Both Phones.
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
] Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBESBELL PHONE
BATTERYBM/D IIB/>MB BSa
2c <TlTRF .lTa
. j*RN(' C.//I>MI< 
<I>KMBI >THA*TN ARN >TGA"TN
f3M3MSM3M3M3M3M3MSMSMSMMiiSSiSMSSM3J3MSMSI3MSM2MSM!MSM3Mi3J
McDOUGrALLS DANCING CLASSES
SHADY AND PENNDANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 
4616 FORBES STREETFRIDAY EVENINGS 
Private Lessons and Beginners Classes every day and evening.
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra
l5/9HS/5/5i5J5M5M5J5J5JSJ5J5J5J5iS/5JSi55i5M51SJ5M5MSJ5/5JSJ5iSMSMBJ5J5J5/SM5iBi5JSJSJ
niiiiiiii!ini!iinniiiiiniii!]niiinnniiin!ir>iii!inui]iiiiflBiuimiiii!]iniiniiiiiiiiuiiiijiiiui]imiiuiii!iiiii
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK"
CAPITAL,           $200,000.00
SURPLUS,.....................................................................................$200,000!00
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
iiniHiuiHfninmiiRninniiinniniiniuiniiiitflDniniiiiDnDniitfliQUininaiinniiinniiininnnHiiniininiiniiiiiiinniiiHininiiainuiiuiuiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiininiDiQii
^ri^srilQlMrrPF CnfT#roroiS/'J?CADa cirT DnU^prTTSBURCrt1
FOUNTAIN PENS AND REPAIRING 
Programs, Favors, Stationery 
VALENTINES FOR MAILING 
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP 
Jenkins Arcade 
-------------------Represented By-------------------
RAYMOND C. COSGROVE 
N. J. CAMPBELL
SCHENLEY EATS |
A good place to get a good meal, e
Meet your friends here on XI 
Sunday evening. j'|
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. | 
CRAIG AND FORBES
I50J3igJS/Si3/c!/c!M3Mi3/c!i3I3M3J2ji
iiiiiiiiiiDiiiniiiiiiimiiiBiiji
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENT
8030NA
The Personal Writing Machino 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
<FARNAN /HT+*FT B(a
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
4TT MRFTT-F B($H(R(' 
*0TF (AR C(RN,AA0T
The interest coupons of Liberty loan 
bonds are payable at any federal re
serve bank or subtreasury and at the 
treasury department in Washington, 
and any National bank which Is a 
general depositary of government 
funds Is required to cash these cou
pons without charge. It is believed, 
says a treasury department bulletin, 
that no bank or trust company which 
Is a depositary of the proceeds of Lib
erty bonds or treasury certificates of 
indebtedness will make a charge for 
collecting the coupons, paying cash to 
the holder. The service rendered by 
banking Institutions In cashing these 
interest coupons la a substantial one, 
but it is hoped that these depositaries 
will perform the service without 
charge as a patriotic duty.
Dogs Do Not Force Opinions.
Are you fond of dogs? "Very. 
They stick right by you, and theyre not 
forever forcing their opinions on you." 
Detroit Free Press.
Our convenient location in Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
Bhort notice. Special service to fra
ternities and rooming houses. Let ue 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875 
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
W. O. Breckon
</LOMS<
FORBES AND ATWOOD ST8.
Phonei 1603161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
8TUDENT8
1Zoel J. Parenteau
V. D. NIRELLA
A. David Broudy 
Efficiency with Elegance 
THE NIRELLA ORCHESTRAS 
410 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone Grant 360 
Service which is a Distinctive 
Asset to Host and Hostess.
^MSMSM2M3J3M3M3MSM3M3iSi3MSJ3JcD
ON TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
minium
CTT'*TN <(T 
>THA**R"
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. 
High class work done while you 
vyait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
Engineers Equipment, Instruj 
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET.
SCHOOLS HELPING U. S. 
BY VARIOUS METHODS
The following clipping from a gov
ernment bulletin explains how schools 
are assisting in the Loan and Savings 
campaigns being conducted at the 
present time. Although only public 
schools are mentioned, the statements 
apply as well to colleges and institu
tions of higher learning, and the plan 
suggested can be carried out as well 
in the latter as in the grade schools.
The tremendous effective national 
service that the schools and school 
children of the country can render is 
being availed of as fully as possible 
by the Treasury Department in its 
work. In a great number of schools 
Liberty Loan Clubs have been organ
ized, and many bonds also have been 
purchased by individual pupils. The 
War-Savings campaign is endeavoring 
to have a War-Savings club establish
ed in every school in the country, and 
organized and individual effort is to 
be stimulated in every way.
Secretary McAdoo has said that he 
would like to see every schoolhouse in 
the United States an open forum, 
where patriotism and loyalty are 
taught, and a center of national ser
vice in its community and among its 
pupils and patrons.
MORE POETRY.
The following poem has been sub
mitted by a member of The Tartan 
staff as the acme of the numerous 
literary atempts of like nature which 
have been prevalent during the last 
year. It seems to be about the most 
damning of any yet circulated, but the 
reader may not think so. If you have 
a more scathing one, send it in. It 
will be printed,if it is not too much 
worse than this:
Satan Objects.
Sparks flew from Old Satans eyes, 
Whats this I hear? asked he; 
They say that when the Kaiser dies 
Hell be consigned to me.
Old Hell is mighty dear,
The place is very fine,
But if they send that guy down here, 
Believe me, Ill resign.
I stand for murderers and crooks, 
And I will not disown 
That I have right here on my books 
The worst things ever known;
But my boys would get sore, I fear,
I know they would rebel;
The Kaiser cannot enter here,
For hed corrupt all Hell.
Our sulphur is too clear for him,
Our brimstone lakes too pure,
And if in one he takes a swim 
Hed ruin it, Im sure.
Our company is not so swell,
While beasts we wont reject,
But keep the Kaiser out of hell,
We have SOME self-respect.
The offering of the Printing De
part of Industries is the following, 
which they even took the trouble to 
get out in printed form:
My Tuesdays are meatless,
My Wednesdays are wheatless
Im getting more eatless each day.
i
My house it Is heatless,
My bed it Is sheetless
They've gone to the Y. M. C. A.
The barrooms are treatless,
My coffee is sweetless
Each day I get poorer and wiser.
My stockings are feetless,
My trousers are seatless
Je-roosh, how I hate the dam Kaiser!
R. E. G.
WAR SAVINGS STAMPS 
CAMPAIGN EXTENSIVE
The machinery by which the pur
chase of a Thrift Stamp or a WarSavings Stamp is to be made as easy 
and convenient as the purchase of a 
spool of thread or a pound of na.ils, in 
every community in the United States, 
is rapidly being established. Already 
185,000 War Savings Stamp Agencies 
have been established and by the close 
of January this number will have been 
increased by 350,000.
In addition to these agencies there 
will be 1,000,000 sales stations, 
which do not receive direct authoriza
tion to make the sale from the Secre
tary of the Treasury, but obtain 
their stamps from authorized agents 
and sell them over their counters at 
their cashiers windows, and other 
places.
Fifty thousand postoffices now have 
War Savings Stamps on sale and 29,- 
000 banks and 8,000 individual firms 
and corporations have been appointed 
agents. Nine thousand interstate cor
porations having places of business 
in several States will constitute 115,- 
000 additional agencies. |
An intensive campaign is now on 
for the establishing of War Savings 
societies which can be organized by 
10 or more persons in any community, 
school, club, church, factory or office 
and can be affiliated with the National 
War Savings Committee at Washing
ton upon application.
New Soft Drink.
A new soft drink is being made from 
alfalfa. Cut when young and tender, 
the stalks are thoroughly cleaned in 
warm water and dried by artificial 
heat. They are then reduced to pow
der by grinding and put into vacuum 
pans and boiled. The solid particles 
are removed by filtering and the liquid 
that remains Is mixed with sugar syrup 
and bottled for shipment.Pathfinder,
(Copyright, 191S, Woatcrn Newapapcr Union.)
David Blair sat behind the screen of 
palms, a frowning spectator upon a 
scene of gayety. Always  his place 
seemed to be just at the outer edge of 
things, never as a participant. Years 
agofor youth seemed a confused 
memory to David, he had not danced 
or flirted, or even engaged in harmless 
revelry with his college companions. 
Seriously, he had wondered at their 
simple enjoyment as he applied him
self to study. The admiring glances 
of girls he had been too absorbed to 
see, alike their perplexity and disap
pointment at his indifference, had 
proved unnoticed.
Now, David, successful man of busi
ness, authority upon matters of mo
ment, realized suddenly and gloomily, 
that pleasure had repaid him with the 
forgetfulness he had given. Not that 
It matteredmuch. Janey still came 
to him with her merry or tearful con
fidences, Janey, with an utter disre
gard for decorum, stopped at his bach
elor home on dismal, dreary evenings 
to make his tea for him, to sit there 
in a bright red frock with her little 
red slippers before the fire, talking 
as only Janey could talk.
After her return from that last year 
at college there had been a self-confident poise In the girls bearing which 
had not been there before. David was 
Impatiently disapproving of each suitor 
who appeared upon the scene. No 
man seemed quite good enough for 
Janey, and these conceited young Idi
otsDavid fumed at their assurance. 
The choice had now sifted down to 
two. Frankly .Janey discussed her 
cavaliers before Davids study tire.
They both want to marry me, she 
remarked one evening.
Janey  married! The thought 
caught In a painful manner at Davids 
heartstrings.
Walt, he advised hastily, do not 
be in a hurry, child; marriage Is for a 
lifetime.
But If I wait like you, David, she 
had Ingenuously complained, I may 
never choose at all.
So this night behind the palms he 
had watched her flitting about, a 
sought after vision In white, but there 
was, he fancied, a cloud upon the girls 
piquant face.
Jack Irving moped In an opposite 
corner against the wall; Billy Hayes 
was conspicuously attentive to every
one but Ills adored Janeywhat was 
the matter?
YDavld, asked a small, meek voice, 
may I hide with you here for a 
while? Janey herself parted the cur
tains of his seclusion.
"You see, David, Im In rather an 
embarrassing predicament. Those sil
ly boys, both of them, think that Im 
engaged.
David wheeled about sharply. En
gaged to whom?
Janey studied her outspread lingers. 
To them, she said. David stared. 
Jack did ask me last night, she con
fessed, "and Billy said something of 
the sort while we were driving tills 
morning, but
"But mocked David. "Well, are 
you engaged to either?
Janey sighed. dont know, she 
answered.
Dont know! David was exasper
ated ; also Ills heart was hammering 
heavily.
"It was tills way, the girl explained. 
"Last night Jack got to talking about 
his promising future, andand how 
lie would like me to share It, David, 
and we could go south on thoge business 
trips of his in the winter, and have a 
bungalow out near our golf links In 
summer, and he wanted to know when 
I would decide, and I said something 
about leaving It until tonight.
"Under those circumstances, David 
answered slowly, "It would appear that 
young Irving lias a right to consider 
you engaged.
"Wait, begged Janey. "This morn
ing, you remember, I went for a ride 
with Billy, and Billy talked a good deal 
as Jack had, onlyhe wanted me to 
marry him when he gets his degree, 
and If I wouldI was to give him the 
first dance this evening. He knew that 
Jack had spoken for escort. And, 
David, honestly, when Billy came for
ward I forgot all about his old degree 
and I gave himthe first dance. Ever 
since then the two boys have been 
scowling at each other andand bullyme. So Janey threw out her hands 
disparlnglythere you are!
David was also scowling. You 
should not play with them that way, 
he said severely. Both are nice boys, 
and it is not fair. Make your choice 
and find your happiness. What more 
can you desire, Janey? David sighed. 
They have all the stakes, youththat 
greatest stake of all, and their future 
before them.
Sometimes, said Janey, her voice 
was strangely unsteady, its Just as 
well to have a little of the future be
hind one, David. Sometimes It makes 
a man kinder, more understanding. 
And always, we women cannot choose 
our own happiness, wewe have to 
wait until
Until, Interposed David, he had 
arisen to his feet.
With a little tremulous smile the 
girl put out her hands to him. "Until, 
she finished, some dear old stupid 
realizes that youth Is not the greatest 
thing in the world, and that hair turn
ing white about the temples is the 
lovllest kind of hair. 
Darling! cried the man enraptur
ed. And Janey nodded her head. Yes, 
David. she saidIve nroDosed.
Our 
Army Camps
Where Your Soldier Boy Is 
How to Get There.
Most of the army camps are pre
pared to receive visitors and there Is a 
great demand on the part of relatives 
and friends to visit their soldiers and 
sailors. For those who are unacquaint
ed with the locations of camps and how 
to reach them this list is published: 
Camp Custer, National army, on Grand 
Trunk and Michigan Central roads 
near Battle Creek, Mich.; also 
reached by trolley. One-way fare 
from Battle Creek to Camp Custer 
via Michigan Central, 14 cents.
Camp Devens, National army, on Bos
ton & Maine railway, about one-half 
mile from Ayer, Mass.; reached by 
electric line or auto.
Camp Dlx, National army, on Pennsyl
vania road, 1.9 miles from Lewlstown, Pa. One-way fare from Phila
delphia, 79 cents.
Camp Dodge, National army, on Interurban (electric) Railway company. 
Fare from Des Moines: Intrastate, 20 
cents; interurbau state, 27 cents. 
Camp Funston, National army, located 
at Funston, Kan., on main line of 
Union Pacific, 3.S miles from Fort 
Riley, Kan. One-way fares from 
Junction City: interstate, 22 cents; 
Intrastate, 15 cents.
Camp Gordon, National army, located 
at Cliamblee, Ga., 13:5 miles from 
Atlanta, on Southern railway. One
way fare from Atlanta on Southern 
railway, 35 cents; via electric line, 
20 cents.
Camp Grant, National army, on C., M. 
& G. railroad, 4.3 miles from Rock
ford, 111.; also reached by trolley. 
Camp Jackson, National army, 4.0 
miles from Columbia, S. C., on South
ern railway; ,also reached by trolley. 
One-way fares from Columbia via 
Southern railway, 20 cents; via elec
tric line, 10 cents.
Camp Lee, National army, 7 miles from 
Petersburg, Va., on Norfolk & West
ern railway; also reached by trolley. 
One-way fare from Petersburg via 
N. & W. railway, 20 cents.
Camp Lewis, National army, located 
directly at American Lake station on 
Northern Pacific railway.
Camp Meade, National army, on Wash
ington, Baltimore & Annapolis elec
tric railway, 1.6 miles from Odenton, 
Md. Fare from Odenton, 5 cents. 
Camp Pike, National army, on Missou
ri Pacific, 5 miles from Military 
Junction and on C. It. & P., about IMj 
miles from Argenta, Ark. One-way 
fares as follows: From Argenta, 18 
cents; from Little Rock, 24 cents; 
from Military Junction, 15 cents. 
Camp Sherman, National army 2% 
miles from Chllllcothe, O., on B. & O. 
railroad. One-way faro from Chllll
cothe by taxi, 25 cents.
Camp Zachary Taylor, National army, 
located it Dumesnll, Ivy., on South
ern railway, 11.0 miles from Louis
ville; also reached by Loulsvlllo 
Street car line. One-way faro from 
Louisville; via Southern railway, 20 
cents; via electric line, 5 cents. 
Camp Travis, National army (Fort 
Sam Houston), on G H. & S. A. 
and M. K. & T. railways, 4.25 miles 
from San Antonio, Tex.
Camp Upton, National army, on Long 
Island railroad, 04.5 miles from New 
York city. Fares from New York: 
one-way, $1.98,; round trip, $8.54.
GOVERNMENT INSURES 
SOLDIERS AND SAILORS
In a short time a million checks a 
month will be issued from the Bureau 
of War-Risk Insurance to the families 
of the men constituting Americas 
fighting force.
There had been up to January 18, 
1918, 473,116 applications for total in
surance of $4,011,391,000. The aver
age amount applied for still keeps 
near the maximum of $10,000. A 
steady effort is being made to make 
our fighting force 100 per cent in
sured, and there are many military 
units in which every member Is in
sured, in some of them every man in
sured for the maximum of $10,000.
The automatic insurance granted 
by the law ceases on February 12, but 
by that time it is hoped that our 
whole military and naval forces will 
be 100 per cent insured, with the 
result that the family or dependents 
of everyone having a family or any
one dependent on him will be provided 
with a monthly allowance, and insur
ance in case of his death, and the 
member himself, if disabled, will re
ceive a monthly allpwance, and if to
tally disabled, will receive in addition 
rehabilitation and special education 
and training to fit him for some work.
The efforts of the Treasury Depart
ment to have every member of the mil
itary and naval forces insured under 
this law can be greatly assisted by the 
people at home of the soldiers and 
sailors if they will join In urging them 
to take out the insurance offered.
Wood Growth.
Wood grows ienglhwlso but once, 
during the first year. After that It 
continues to grow In thickness each 
year of Its life, but the length growth 
Is each year extended only by new 
twigs.
Machine Works Fast.
An electrically-driven machine wrap? 
ump sug^ir in Individual paper 
it a speedi of 7,500 lumps an hour.,
ARROW
form-fit
COLLAR
wiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiliuliiiluniiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiii!
Mellon
National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
| 510-514 Smitlifleld St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
| Capital - - - - $6,000,000
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
aiiiiiiiiiMB
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
i Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac
tory Rebuilt Ma
chines.
.UT*GAR 4*F*R" !AG*RT 
B(UHAR
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
WEBER EXPRESS AND 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. 
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Plnnos. Gen* 
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
All Week 
NORMA TALMADGE In
VYES</< S3 DI</I>O.DX
From "Two Women, by Rupert 
Hughes.
0/SliDMSJi^QU^iilMclJijJii!/^^
C. c7VL. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Phono 9076 Schenloy. 
^/S/cli3/S/nLJc!/n!/e!/c!/n!/injiH/Q!icnjD!/n!/i5/iiliclin!/iQ/D}iSJni/ny
 Boll Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE j! 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
ISfS/S/SiS/S//LiS/cliSinjS/3Jc/n/2/i5/SfciJi/S/c!/Q!n3PT,la:8
Z
MACHINERY CO.
HIGH CLASS 
MACHINERY 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
/SMc!/3M3M3SSM3M&2Mc!M3MSMMiii
Phone 1254 GrantDRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
406 PITTSBURGH LIFE BUILDING 
FOR RENTAL
\ J g% FULL DRESS AND ALL 
FORMAL WEAR 
For Day or Evening 
R. A. PHELLEPS 
Men8 Tailor
og YI/ DSL> E.M> BL/ 
----------at the----------
TECH BARBER SHOP I
Noarcst to Tech
] 
a ioD ] 0 a i a3
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 

---------------------------------------------------

Tage FourTHE TARTANWednesday, February 6, 1918
P.LUDEBUEHL & SON
<ESI< .PO ES<MI>D ,IPP .PO 3>.Pj</S4P 
Footprints Lead to Detection
A.
Tho standing of a man lo an ofte** 
no not told by his footwear!f ho 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your ohoec here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and Impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
8hoes are built by somo of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers In 
tho world.
53.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Mens Dept.
MADE AT TECH
Save time, money and dissatisfaction by getting 
your uniforms, single caps, shoes, shirts and sweat
ers of the highest quality at the lowest prices from
GELLIN, Senior Civil 
Smith, PlebeScience
HAIN
KORNISHIndustry
H. RUTTER, Design
Dont Delay, for February 25th is near.
iRiS/SMSMclJciMSMS/DlMS
FINE OLD VIOLINS 
Pure and mellow toned, genuine old Violins, Strad and other 
popular models. Very fine condition and thoroughly tested. .Complete 
with good bow, value $20. Special
for this week. Each......................................................................... .
G ALLIN GERS
929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854
fg/gjgJSMSMSMSMSiMSMSiSMMMiilMSMSMSMiilMiiUSMSMSMSMSMSMSJSMSMSMSMSJ
1 MURDOCH. KERR & COMPANY jj
| i Incorporated E
1 Makers of CATALOGUES, MAGAZINES, NEWSPAPERS and BOOKS E 
ALL KINDS OF MERCANTILE PRINTING 
 Telephone 1052 Grant. STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS E
AW
tSR111*
(brnfem InuAad^ 
ulhowiAf 25&n
Gga/mti
JaA
4I  w
 4M* 
MI
* III <ITiQ| 
 ll> *  
*:
<s
v 
 *
i,  i* 
ID* 
Ul IIP# 
 ,11(11'
REGULATIONS REGARDING 
DRILL ABSENCES POSTED
The following regulations in regard 
to excuses from military drill and 
credits for the course were posted 
last week by Major Lyle:
1. Excuses from military drill from 
conscientious objectors will -not be 
considered.
2. Excuses from military drill on 
account of outside work:
(a) The student shall first ar
range to take his drill at some 
other period than the one which 
conflicts with his outside work.
In case this arrangement necessi
tates dropping a part of his school 
work, this should be done, the stu
dent handing to his Dean at once 
a petition for a light schedule.
(b) Excuses from military-dri!! 
because of peculiar circumstances 
in educational work is to be a 
matter of arrangement between 
the Dean of the student concerned 
and the Commandant.
3. Excuses from military drill in 
order to train for athletic teams: All 
excuses to provide training time for 
teams representing C. I. T. in inter
collegiate contests is to be a matter 
of arrangement between the Com
mandant and the athletic authorities. 
(Since the posting of these regulations 
arrangements have been made to ex
cuse candidates for the basketball and 
track teams from military drill.)
4. Excuses from military drill on 
the grounds of physical disability: 
While students may be excused from 
the regular military drill on the rec
ommendation of the school physician, 
such students, however, must report 
at the regular drill periods to he as
signed to squads for special work.
5. Excuses from military drill on 
account of membership in any of the 
school military bands: The Comman
dant has authority to act in such cases.
6. Credits for military drill: Mili
tary drill and the special military 
work noted under Paragraph 4, will 
be required for graduation on the 
basis of three hours for one credit.
7. Punishment for unexcused ab
sences from military drill: The Com
mandant will handle all absences not 
already provided for, and will arrange 
for punishment on the drill ground for 
each unexcused absence. Whena stu
dent shall have incurred more than 
six absences in one semester lie is 
liable to expulsion and will be debarr
ed from classes pending final action 
by the military committee.
MUSIC STUDENTS GIVE 
ENTERTAINING1RECITAL
w  ,lv NPackages of tens 
and twenties
*<ui
zitti
The second of the: series of concerts 
or recitals to be given by the students 
of the department of music of Design 
School, was held last Sunday evening, 
February 3, in the Design School 
Theatre.
The program, which was as follows, 
was very well chosen, and all num
bers wore excellently rendered:
1) Mendelssohn........................Trio op. 49
Andante ..............Leggiero e vivace
Vladimir Belehrad.. Jean Wes$per 
Helen Eyles
2. ''Lain .......Symphonic Espagnole
Allegro non troppo 
Samuel Gluck
3. Chopin ................................Two Etudes
Chopin ... .Nocturne, op. 48, No. 2 
Rubinstein ............................ Staccato
Norman Frauenheim
4. Schubert................Du hist die Ruh
\ D. Popper......................Cavotte No. 2
Joan Wessner
5. Chopin........................Fantaisie, op. 49
Adole Hennig
G. Kreisler ............................... Liebesleid
Wieniawslci .....................Aires Russes
Paul Slatelc 
7. Anthony Jawelak .. Grand Choeur 
Anthony Jawelak 
AccompanistHelen Eslielman 
The next concert will be given in 
the Carnegie Music Hall, on Sunday 
evening, March 3, 1918.
4* 4*
FOR OUR 524 AND MORE 4*
4* What are you doing? 4*
4* Our girls are busyknitting; 4*
? our boys are busy drilling, all are 4*
4 busywriting. 4*
4* Knit moreDrill moreWrite 4*
4* more. But let The Tartan help 4*
4* you in the last. 4
4* 75 cents mailed to any part of 4*
4* the world. 4*
4* 4*
4,44*4,4*4*44,4,4,4,4,414,4*4,4*4'
Fredericks
THE HOUSE OF SERVICE/EI jP.CI
ALLEGHENY BEATS TECH
IN VERY CLOSE CAME
(Continued From Page One.) 
out the game to resort to long shots. 
The first quarter ended with two 
points on fouls for Allegheny. Score 
9-5, favor Tech.
Our opponents began the second 
quarter with renewed vigor and deter
mination. After a few minutes of 
play, two long shots by Volk netted 
them four points and tied the score 
at 9-9. We were soon in the lead 
again when Lefty dropped in two 
fouls. The half ended with Allegheny 
scoring four points on field goals after 
some fast passing. This gave the 
team from Meadville a lead of two 
points. Score 13-11.
The second period was not nearly 
so fast as the first and shattered all 
hopes of victory for our quintet. In 
the third quarter, Allegheny scored 
seven points from three field goals 
and one foul. This gave them a lead 
which our men never overcame. Cos
grove came through with a neat field 
goal after dribbling the ball down the 
field. Score 20-13. ,
In the fourth quarter, Pat Hoban 
was substituted for Jim Doherty. 
The rest of the game was rather slow. 
Two fouls by Capt. Abrams and a field 
goal by Kofoed added four points to 
our total, while Allegheny scored five 
points on three fouls and a field goal. 
Score 25-17.
The game was the most hotly con
tested one of the season. Spurts on 
the part of both teams often brought 
the spectators to their feet. Abrams 
and Cosgrove played their usual good 
game. Kofoed succeeded in guarding 
his man well, Volk starred for Alle
gheny. The lineup was as follows:
Allegheny25. Tech17.
vlk .........................F... (Capt) Abrams
Kerr .........................F........................................... ..................Doherty
Meredith ............C.................... Gretzler
Lane .....................G . Gosgrove
Bianclii (Capt) ..G........................ Kofoed
SubstitutionsHoban for Doherty. 
Field GoalsVolk, 5; Kerr, 2; Lane, 
1; Abrams, 4; Cosgrove, 1; Kofoed, 1. 
FoulsVolk, 3 out of 5; Lane, 6 out 
of 15; Abrams, 5 out of 10. RefereeA! Slack.
635-37 SMITHFIELD STREET, PITTSBURGH
VARSITY WILL PLAY
GROVE CITY FRIDAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
ed that this will not be the case for 
the remainder of the season.
The preliminary game between the 
Casino Technical High School of East 
Pittsburgh and the Plebes will start 
at 7:30 sharp. The band will also be 
on hand.
4* 4*
4* Hello! Mack! I see you have 4
4* your Tartan. 4*
4* You bet! I read it as quickly 4 
4* as I can and send it over -there 4 
4 to Duke. You remember him 4* 
4* last year. 4*
4* Uni-in. I tried that stunt with 4* 
4* my chum, too. I wanted to keep 4* 
4* mine. So I subscribed for him 4* 
4* and have it sent to France. 4*
4* 75 cents to ANY PART OF 4*
4- THE WORLD. 4-
* 4*
44*4*4,4,4,4,4,4*4,44*44*44'4,4*
BUILDERS ASSOCIATION, 
WILL MEET AT TECH
The National Association of Build
ers Exchanges which is holding a con
vention in this city on the 5th, 6th and 
7tli of February, will visit the Insti
tute on the evening o^ the 5th. Iii the 
fore part of the evening the men will 
be the guests of the Building Con
struction Department of the School of 
Applied Industries and the Civil En
gineering Department of the School of 
Applied Science, the -ladies mean
while visiting the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie School. At 9:30 p. m., the. 
delegates and ladies will meet at the 
School of Applied Design when they 
will be the guests of the Department 
of Architecture. A concert by the 
students of the Department of Music 
will be a feature of the evening. At 
a business meeting on Tuesday after
noon Doan Connolley will give an ad
dress before the convention on The 
War as a Challenge for Better Indus
trial Relationships.
NEW MEMBER ADDED TO 
FACULTY OF M. M. C. S.
Miss Honora English, a graduate of 
the Agricultural College of Ames, 
Iowa, has come to Margaret Morrison 
to teach Sanitation in the Household 
Economics Department.
QUALIFYING COURSES 
FOR DESIGN SCHOOL
Superintendent Davidson, of the 
Pittsburgh Board of Public Education, 
has called a meeting of high school 
principals and public school teachers 
of music, public speaking,_ painting and 
drawing, in the Design School Theater 
at 3:30 oclock on Thursday afternoon, 
February 7. Dead Bossange and Dr. 
Davidson will at that time present the 
proposed plan which will offer an op
portunity for high school students, an
ticipating entrance to the Design 
School, to secure instruction in such 
technical subjects as architecture, 
sculpture, freehand drawing, design, 
architectural drawing, color and mod
eling, music, and dictation, on Satur
day mornings during their high school 
courses under members of our faculty. 
They will not be registered as Insti
tute students, and the work they do 
will not count towards either our de
gree or high -school graduation.- The 
purpose of the plan is to produce bet
ter prepared material for our art 
courses and make possible the elimin
ation of much instruction of an ele
mentary character that is now neces
sary to give during the first year.
4* 4* 4* 4* 4*4*4*4*4*4,4,4,4,4'4*4,4,4# 
4* 4*
4* DONT APOLOGIZE 4
4* -----------
4 For the length of your letters 4* 
4* going over there. Let The 4* 
4 Tartan do its bit. and carry your 4* 
4* news to him. Six bits will do 4* 
4* the trick. 4*
4- 4*
STYLE J UPRIGHT
A design, rich yet compact in size, intimate 
enough for the salon, yet small enough for the living 
room of your apartment. The Knabe Style J is 
admirably suited to the demands of the discriminat
ing public.
PIANO $550, IN MAHOGANY
Convenient Terms of Payment Arranged
W. F. FREDERICK PIANO CO.
^f5/5M5MSJ5/5JSM5MS/5i5M5/5J5M5JSI5U3J2ISi5M51SJ5JSJ5/5M5J5M5/5Mi5M5JBJBM5MSi5i5i
MILITARY GOODS
C. I. T. UNIFORMS .......................................................................................................$6.75
C. I. T. UNIFORMS, REINFORCED BREECHES, OFFICERS
QUALITY ....................................................................................................................$7.75
C. I. T. CAPS .....................................................................................................................$1.25
C. I. T. LEGGINS ............................................................................................................$1.75
C. I. T. SHEEPSKIN COATS .......................................................................,. .$15.00
MUNSON LAST ARMY SHOES ..............................................................$5.50-$7.00
O. D. SHIRTS .......................................................................................................$3.75-$4.50
SLEEVELESS SWEATERS.........................................................................$2.50-$5-50
SWAGGER STICKS...............................................................................................25c-$2.50
OFFICERS UNIFORMS .................................................................................. .$25.00
OFFICERS OVERCOATS .................................................................... $28.00-$40.00
OFFICERS TRUNKS ................................................................................................$10.5C
W. STOKES KIRK
108 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
ATTENTION!!
Your uniform and equipments can be secured at 
a very low figure. All U. S. Regulation goods. We 
have on hand a full supply of:
O. D. WOOL BLOUSE AND BREECHES 
O. D. COTTON BLOUSE AND BREECHES
X
CAPS
SHOES
SHIRTS
HATS
MILITARY BOOKS 
OVERCOATS
TRENCH COATS
MACKINAWS
SWEATERS
GLOVES
INSIGNIAS
PUTTEES
Army & Navy 
Store Co.
Incorporated 
LARGEST MILITARY OUTFITTERS
437 Wood Street
Bell Phone Court 4450
I
!
mumm
A National Institution
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOE 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
X epidemic sin
