fi tartan
this week
Mahoganeypage 11
Interview with Leonard Nimoy page 14
Tartans lose in almost Everything page 18
Student Senate Candidates page 5
November 11,1975 Volume 76 Number 10
Architecture Head Highlands Retained
by Charles Mitch
Delbert Highlands has been named to 
continue as the Head of the Department of 
Architecture, President Cyert announced 
on November 7, officially setting to rest 
the controversy and confusion resulting 
a from evidence indicating that a search for a 
new department head was in progress. Still 
unresolved are the problem areas which the 
architecture students have presented to the 
administration and which Dr. Cyert agrees 
must be solved before the department can 
go forward and realize the full potential 
of architecture in the College of Fine 
Arts.
Designated to work towards solving 
the problems, a steering committee consist
ing of Highlands, Akram Midani, Dean of 
CFA, and Edward Schatz, Provost of CFA 
has been established. Dr. Cyert indicated 
that he also wants student input through a 
group similiar to the student advisory 
committees used in other departments. The 
architecture students however have pointed 
, out that they fell the problems of the de
partment prevent a SAC-type representa
tive group from being workable. The stu
dents have indicated that they wish to 
handle the matter in forums open to all 
interested, similiar to the series of mass 
meetings held last week. Dr, Cyert com
mented on this , stating I dont care what
form it is in, I want communication, feed
back is damn important. He went on to 
say that he feltsmall committees were a 
more workable form for dealing with the 
matter.
Upon hearing of the announcement, 
Robert Skydell, who along with Fred 
Schuster emerged as leaders for
the students, commented well wait to see 
what happens, weve done enough rabblerousing. Student response to the an
nouncement regarding Highlands was gen
erally favorable. In their original statement 
of position, the students declared  a hasty 
removal of the head is no cure for a cancer 
afflicting the entire body.
Dr. Cyerts statement to a group of se
nior architects that he would have replaced 
Highlands last year if it were not for vacan
cies already existing in other CFA depart
ments indicates a long history of unrest in 
the department. At a meeting of over 200 
students with the faculty , held on 
Monday, November 3, Highlands stated 
that he had prepared a letter of resignation 
last January but had been pursaded not to 
submit it. Dr. Cyert told Highlands that he 
had never heard of the existence of such a 
letter. Among the reasons given by High
lands for considering stepping down as de
partment head were contractual difficulties 
encountered with the architectural firm of 
Decade Inc. for work to be performed for
Senate Standing Still
November tilth saw what might be one 
of the most important Student Senate 
meetings of all time. To the casual visitor, 
it would not have seemed like much. In 
fact, democracy, which Ben Franklin called 
an insatiable bore, was befitting its defini
tion.
There was the report by Jerry DeGennaro that the new system of voting by 
college, adopted last spring, was not work
ing. In one of the schools, G.S.I.A., no one 
is running for its open seat, CFA has two 
running for eight open seats, CIT has six 
running for eight seats, MIS has four run
ning for three seats, and SUPA has one stu
dent running for one seat; in H&SS, four 
students are running for five seats.
At the same time, a motion was made 
that would have allowed three or four 
additional candidates to be on the ballot, 
even though they had not followed the 
standard procedures for applying to run for 
Student Senate; their petitions were not 
turned in on time. The motion, even 
though it received a majority vote, was de
feated, because it needed a two-thirds mar
gin.
Feelings heated up over a letter written 
by Senator Dan Capoullez to the TARTAN 
(November 4). In the letter, Capoullez was 
critical of Senate and the way it allocates 
funds. Capoullezs actions were attacked 
by Larry Kurzweil, Chairman of Senate, 
and others, because they felt he should 
have informed Senate of its actions, before
hand. In addition, many Senators ques
tioned his right to be openly critical.
Dan replied that he had written the 
letter in hopes that others would be shaken 
up by it, and different people might come 
forth with some ideas as to how Student 
Senate could be better. Lastly, Dan coun
tered with the argument that Freedom of 
Speech does not end when you become a
Student Senator.
In response to the discussion, Student 
Senate President Doug Konopka expressed 
his feelings on the matter: Its almost 
the end of this term of Senate, yet we still 
seem disorganized, and were not moving in 
any solid direction. We seem to be standing 
still, while at the same time, were ex
pending a great deal of energy. Weve got 
30 senators left from our 40.
Dean Swank, in an attempt to clarity 
matters, said, Senate has never decided if 
they are senators, wise old men who can 
rule by their knowledge and, because of 
that, can make the best decision, or, it 
theyre representatives, who rule by input 
from their constituents.
Student Senate Elections will be this 
Thursday and Friday. On Wednesday, an 
open forum will be held to discuss re
structuring senate.
the department. He indicated that all of 
the difficulties have now been settled.
Because of numerous, complaints from 
students heard through Dean Swank, Dr. 
Cyert met with 15 architecture seniors 
and Dean Midani on Thursday October 30. 
After the students presented their list of 
complaints, Dr. Cyert indicated his intent 
to replace Highlands as department head. 
On Sunday November 2, at a meeting be
tween faculty and a large group of stu
dents, Professor Charles Eastman stated 
that he had already been approached about 
taking an admnistrative position in the de
partment. On the morning of Monday 
November 3, the faculty and Highlands 
met with Dr. Cyert to discuss the situa
tion. That evening the faculty met with 
over 200 students to report on their meet
ing with the President. Highlands announc
ed at that meeting that he was not going to 
resign as department head. When asked on 
Monday evening about his stautus as de
partment head Highlands commented 
my perception is there is no search for a 
new head. After the announcement of 
November 7, Dr. Cyert commented that he 
hadintitiated the search for a new head so as 
to have alternatives in case I need them. 
A common perception of all the par
ties involved (i.e. students, faculty and ad
ministration) was the danger of  alliances 
being formed between two of the groups 
against a third. At the meeting of Sunday 
November 2, it was publicly announced 
by 'the students, that in a telephone con
versation with the parents of an unidentifi
ed student, Dr. Cyert had stated that the 
faculty were using the students as pawns in 
order to make it difficult for the adminis
tration. Dr. Cyert later confirmed that such 
a conversation did take place. Unaware of 
the occurance of such a conversation, High
lands told the mass meeting of Monday 
November 3 that there was a danger of a 
mind manipulation taking place because 
the students are very impressionable. 
After the meeting he added that he had 
nightmares about the possiblity of an 
alliance between the students and the ad
ministration because of the money rela
tionship (tuition) between the two. In a 
draft of a statement of position prepared 
before either of these statements had been 
made , the Associated Students of Archi
tecture declared that the students will 
remain firm in their position of autonomy 
and wiH not be steamrolled by either the 
continued on page five
Photo by Elliot Popowltz 
Fred Schuster addresses the faculty and students 
of Architecture as Delbert Highlands listens.
SGC Alive
by Joan Konkle
Major changes in the by-laws of the Stu
dent Government Corporation were ap
proved by Student Senate on October 29 
and on November 2 by the Board of the 
Corporation. The Corporation believes that 
these changes will make it an effective 
student organization, which it has not 
been during the four years of its existence 
because it has performed only three minor 
tasks.
The Corporation has had virtually no
thing to do because until its by-laws were 
changed, it could only do those things that 
the Student Senate instructed it to do. Un
less members of the Board and the officers 
were also members of Student Senate, they 
were not permitted to present tentative 
projects for the Corporation to carry out 
before the Senate for its approval. This 
meant that there was little communication 
between the groups, and this led to the 
Corporation being given little work to do. 
Now, though, the Corporation is allowed 
to reseai ci i activities which are in the 
interests of the students. Instead of wait
ing for the Senate to give it work to do, 
the Corporation is now able to plan its 
own projects, and then present these plans 
to the Senate for its approval.
Another problem the Corporation has 
had is that the student members of the 
Board of Directors were the five chairmen 
of the internal committees of the Student 
Senate. Their chief interest was in the 
continued on page nine
Social Science Dept Added to H&SS
by Laurie Trask
Over the next few years, under the lead
ership of Dean John Crecine, a new Social 
Science department of H&SS will be devel
oped. I will be completing what Erwin 
Steinberg (exH&SS dean) had started in 
assembling H&SS. There will be additions 
of sociologists and behavioral scientists to 
the faculty, stated Crecine.
In the next three years, ten new facul
ty members, in addition to what we al
ready have, will be added to create the 
CMU Social Science department ... We 
expect four political scientists, two socio
logists, and four economists, although no 
firm commitment has been made yet.
Crecine sees many advantages to having
one large Social Sciences department, in 
addition to separate Economics and Social 
Relations departments. I think we avoid 
some of the temptations of putting blind^--------
: MS 
John Crecinephoto by Elliot Popowitz
ers on research and teaching. Not that we 
dont have conventional disciplinary ma
jors, but wed like students to see what in
terdisciplinary majors have to offer. We 
also expect the research and the teaching 
of the social sciences faculty to be highly 
innovative ... On the graduate level, we 
offer interdisciplinary programs that are 
not offered in either GSIA or SUPA, such 
as Political Economy.
In order to aid the Social Sciences de
partment in objectives and composition of 
staff, a special group of eminent social 
scientists has been assembled, to act as an 
advisory committee. These men are 
James G. March of Stanford .University, 
Richard R. Nelson of * University, and 
Charles Tilly of the Ur: rsity of Michigan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-TH6 TARTAN-Novemoer 1 i, iy/b
editors note
Boycott the Elections - Vote "No Confidence"
Now More Then Never
Student Senate elections are once again upon us and it is 
once again time for students to evaluate the effectiveness of 
their government. The question, though, is how many 
students actually consider Student Government THEIR gov
ernment? In fact, how many students even consider Stu
dent Go vernment?''
Election records show that at no time in the past 
four years has more than fourteen percent of the student 
body voted in any Student Government Election. Student 
Government, while officially representing the students of 
Carnegie -Mellon University, has never, in the recent past, re
presented more than an extremely small subset of students.
At the same time there has been the everlasting pro
blem of getting enough candidates to run for office. There 
are sixteen candidates for twenty-six vacancies for this week's 
elections with only one constituency having more candidates 
than openings. What this means is that not only are a very 
small number of students voting at Student Senate Elections 
but simultaneously those few don't have much choice in who 
serves.
Attempts at improving this situation were voted down by 
the Senate, the same Senate which itself is so unrepresenta
tive. This last semester for example, a motion was intro
duced which would have required that a candidate receive 
votes riumbering at!east one percent of the number of people 
in his constituency to be elected. But even this attempt at 
making an election even trivially significant failed to receive 
an adequate number of votes to pass.
But our Senate does being unrepresentative even one bet
ter; its ineffective as well. In reviewing the minutes and 
TARTAN articles dealing with Senate since, September, the 
only non-financial matters successfully passed by Student 
Senate were (1) moving the date of Spring Carnival up; (2) 
nominating and electing a Spring Carnival Chairman; and (3) 
amending the Bylaws of the Student Government Corpora
tion. Last Aprilj President Doug Konopka stated that 4,This 
is a very young, open minded Senate. It's going to be much 
more progressive, yet in actuality"nothing actually got done.
The problem, then seems pretty dear. Any decision 
Senate makes can be challenged as unrepresentative by the 
student body, and Senate doesnt make any decisions.
The solution is a little more complex. Student Senate 
must seriously consider, either upon its own impetus or 
upon the direction of a group of interested students, restruc
turing itself so as not to continue to waste what could be a 
powerful student input to the administration.
In order to demonstrate the total lack of student con
fidence in the current structure, / recommend that the stu
dents boycott the current elections and at the same time 
attend the open forum being held on Wednesday, regarding 
the role of Student Government. Senate has existed independantly of the student body for too long; the time has 
come for the students to reclaim their government.
Gary Singer, EditorNEWS
WRITERS ARE NEEDED BY THE 
TARTAN. 
Join THE NEWS STAFF 
News Meetings are held on 
Wednesdays at 7:30 in room 50 SKIBO
letters
Char lesra Orly Sacerd Bast 
Editer:
I am writing this letter to ex
press my dissapointment at what 
I read in the Open Administra
tion article of November 4th. 
In this article President Cyert 
is quoted as having said It is 
clear we can never be better than 
the established Ivy League s 
schools in the Humanities, and 
that he didnt like being in a 
position of being second or 
third best in anything. I am 
pleased that Dr. Cyert takes 
pride in our university, but find 
it rather distressing that this 
desire to be on top is being used 
as an excuse to cut valuable pro
grams and lower the quality of
my education. Whether we have 
a top rated humanities program 
or not, its presence is unques
tionably an asset to the educa
tion of us all - not just the 
H&SS majors. Ive heard it said 
many times around this campus 
that Engineering has become a 
rapidly changing field, and the 
good engineer must have more 
than the tools of his trade - he 
must be an adaptable human be
ing, ready to change as our soci
ety changes. It seems to me that 
some H&SS courses could play 
an important role in this type of 
education - and Im not refer
ring to technical writing.
Another point that puzzles 
me is how President Cyerts 
convictions on high quality edu
cation fit in with his admissions
policies. I find it hard to believe 
that any school that accepts 80% 
of its applicants can be number 
one in anything, be it Human
ities, Fine Arts, or Engineering 
and Science. Which leaves us 
only one solution - wed better 
shut down the whole university.
Glarr Babakiar 
Traa Msrdarars
Editer:
(To the members of 7-E)
I dont know who is responsi
ble for painting the tree trunk 
in front of the senior fence, but 
I think you are quite immature 
to hope that your party is worth 
continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
November 11, 1975Number 10
Editor in Cniet 
Gary Singer ^ -
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News EditorrCharles Mitch 
Entertainment EditonMark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor:Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers. Rick Frantz. James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith. Carl West, Paul Williams ,
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carne
gie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; [4121 682-4557.
________________________ALL WIGHTS RESERVED___________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 11, 1975Page 3
news comment
Applied Math: "The Job Marked Would Seem to Support Such a Program
View from Warner Hall
The Mathematics Department 
has started a new program in ap
plied mathematics, and the pur
pose of this article is'to summa
rize its basic goals and content. 
The first part of the article will 
concentrate on our educational 
programs and the second part 
will deal with research.
Our undergraduate program 
in applied mathematics is rather 
unorthodox. It is a professional 
program that is terminal in the 
sense that a student will be pre
pared to start his career without 
the need for additional train
ing. The first two years are tight
ly structured, and in addition to 
the normal courses, the student 
will be asked to take finite math
ematics, numerical analysis, 
probability and statistics, as well 
as introductory courses in com
puter science.
In the last two years a stu
dent is given the opportunity to 
select one of a number of differ
ent options. The major ones are:
(1) computation (advanced 
courses in computer science, 
numerical analysis, and opera
tions research);
(2) data and systems analysis 
(operations research, accounting, 
more statistics but with an orien
tation toward computation);
(3) engineering (many differ
ent possibilities are available 
here).
The job market would seem 
to support such a program. For 
example, the September 21, 
1975 issue of the New York 
Times gives a list of the most 
desirable areas as viewed by a 
representation sampling of em
ployers. Leading the list was 
chemical engineering. Second 
came accounting (option 2), fol
lowed by mathematics graduates 
with some training in computer 
science (option 1).
A professionally oriented 
Masters program in applied 
mathematics has also been start
ed. It will be in effect as an hon
ors version of the undergraduate 
program.
Our Department is strongly 
committed to high academic 
standards in these efforts. In
deed, it is one of the unique fea
tures of the program that it is 
actually in a Mathematics De
partment. This, we feel, will 
permit the program to have a 
professional orientation, and yet 
at the same time, have the 
character and substance of tradi
tional mathematical training.
We shall continue to 
vigorous Ph.D. and D.A. pro
grams, and as always they will 
be closely related to research
letters
continued from page two 
more than the trunk of those 
trees. With the beauty of this 
campus continuously diminish
ing with every new piece of 
litter and vandalism, it sickens 
me to look at those trees, who 
have been trying to heal them
selves after a similar incident last 
year. Had you been caught 
painting a tree in any state park 
or national forest, you would be 
heavily fined and possibly jailed, 
where here, you will probably 
receive only a slap on the hand. 
This really isnt too surprising, 
where, for example, the campus 
security cant initiate an investiation of the disappearance of a 
$500 painting, because no com
plaint was turned in.
If the decision of what to do 
with you were up to me, any 
fine would not cover the dam
age. And you could count on 
completely removing the paint, 
and tarring the trunk, as is pro
fessionally done, so the tree may 
have a chance to heal. The stu
dent senate has a rule prohibit
ing the very crime you commit
ted, and I hope they enforce it 
with my suggestion.
Grag K. Bessa 
MMS
Tha Raal Preblams ef Sarata 
Editer.
I would like to congratulate 
Dan Capouellez for his letter to
the TARTAN concerning Sen
ate, even though I feel his arguements. are in general ignorant of 
the scope of Senates functions 
and powers. Although he fails to 
point out facts which explain his 
statements, he does show an awareness for the real problems 
of Senate. Please allow me to 
explain:
1. Senate was asked three 
weeks ago to investigate the lay
ing off of several personel in the
E.E. department. It has been 
stated by many students and 
some faculty (who do not wish 
to be quoted) that the laying off 
of these people could cost the 
department much more than 
their salaries, if they were re
tained. The problems attributed 
to the loss of these persons 
would also seriously affect the 
lab work in the department . . . 
Senate voted to commit the is
sue to Academic Affairs Com
mittee, and then . . . nothing 
happened, and apparently, noth
ing will happen.
2. This is only the latest in
cident in Senates record which 
shows that Senate WILL NOT 
take action to aid or protect 
the student, who pays $25.00 to 
Senate. Of course, there is a 
reason for the above incident. I 
just dont have the time, and no
body else wants to help. I 
quote the Academic Affairs 
Chairperson. Past excuses have 
been lets see what happens,
then ... , Its not our con
cern (Mind you, the students 
are not the concern of STU
DENT Senate), Youre the only 
one who ever complains and so 
on.
I was the second most despis
ed member of Senate two years 
ago for the sole reason that I 
asked such questions as What 
so the students think? That 
Senate, in my opinion, was pos
sibly worse than this years.
I hope that this Senate will, 
at some time, realize that it 
will not become any more 
powerful or effective until it at
tempts to gain, and use, power.
Remember: If you dont stick 
your neck out of the water, 
youre going to drown.
Jamas Jehrster 
Orca Uper a Tima ...
Editer:
Once upon a time 
In the Land of Senate,
Life was peaceful,
Calm, and sedate.
Life was easy then,
And apathy abound,
Until the day the kid 
Walked into the town.
It was hard for them 
To begin to realize,
Why anyone in the world 
Would want to criticize.
The words that he spoke, 
Really opened their eyes.
But whenever he talked,
They only screamed Lies!!
Then he wrote a letter,
So that all would know 
The feelings that he had 
And wanted to show.
They screamed in horror 
At the things that he wrote. 
And the question of his fate 
Was taken to a vote.
Ill get a rope
Was heard from the rear. 
Hangings too good 
Someone said with a sneer.
But up cried the kid,
I fight for the student.
And we must, in the future,
Be far more prudent.
Commendable words, 
Said one, with a laugh.
I motion we use it 
For the kids epitaph.
Dan Capouellez
The TARTAN welcomes com
ments from any member of the 
CMU community. Letters to the 
Editor are due by noon Wednes
day during the week prior to 
publication.
All letters to the Editor must 
be signed with the authors 
real name and address.
activities of our faculty and 
their collaborators on and off 
campus. Applied mathematics 
has always been a strong part of 
our Departments research ef
forts. To cite just two examples, 
during the last decade our group 
in continuum mechanics has 
achieved an international repu
tation for its work on the foun
dations of mechanics; our strong 
and visible e'ffort in various as
pects of differential equations 
and their applications has had as 
a biproduct a positive interac
tion with the work in mechanics. 
In the future we hope to develop 
similar visibility in numerical 
mathematics, mathematical pro
gramming and optimization.
A final goal of our Depart
ment is to play a larger role'in 
the intellectual life of this Uni
versity. I am, however, fully 
aware of the obstacles. Mathe
maticians have traditionally re
garded their major role as build
ing firehouses and not in putting 
our fires. We have often carried 
the attitude to such an extreme 
that even our traditional friends 
-- most notably engineers - find 
it easier to work out their own 
mathematical problems than to 
master our work. There is also 
the question of taste that has of
ten separated mathematicians 
from the larger academic com
munity. What chance is there 
that a dedicated lover of the 
delicate French Baroque a la 
Couperin, Lully and Rameau 
will ever sympathetically listen 
to Wontons impassioned fare
well that closes Die Walkure?
Inspite of these barriers I feel 
the goal is attainable. First of all 
the motivation is there. I know 
of no member of this Depart
ment who would not like to 
have his work used in areas 
outside mathematics. Moreover,
I sense that all of us are quite 
skeptical of mathematicians who 
attempt to apply their ideas in 
a new area without the collabo
ration of workers in that disci
pline. This inevitably results in 
rigorously established banalities. 
Mathematical economics, for ex
ample, seems to be rich in such 
things.
Finally, the rewards of inter
disciplinary work can be great. 
One need only consider the ef
forts during the last decade in 
space exploration. To cite but 
one example, the remarkably 
accurate numerical simulations 
that were a central part of con
trol and guidance drew heavily 
from the physical sciences, mod
ern techniques of data manage
ment, mechanics, and mathema
tics. Representatives from each 
of these areas worked in collabo
ration and with a basic problem 
solving orientation.
George J. Fix, Head 
Department of Mathematics 
Carnegie -Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-November 11,1975
announcements
THURSDAY AFTERNOON LUiMCHtum
FORUM: NEW BUILDl'NG CONCEPTS: 
BUILDING FOR BUILDINGS SAKE? 
Volcar Hartkopf, Architecture Depart
ment; Chang-! Hua, SUPA and Architec
ture Department will discuss the concerns 
of progressive housing with special empha
sis on patterns of human needs. This pro
gram will stress the interdisciplinary nature 
of the accessment and solution of the hous
ing problem which includes the availability 
and use of natural resources and engineer
ing advances. 12:30, November 13 in the 
Wherrett Room Skibo. Bring your lunch 
and a friend. Sponsored by Campus Pro
gram Planning in cooperation with the 
Department of Student Activities.
John M. Roberts, Andrew W. Mellon Pro
fessor of Antropology, will present the first 
in a series of lectures by distinguished fac
ulty members being sponsored at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh by the XI Chapter of 
Phi Beta Kappa.
Dr. Roberts will speak on "Expressive 
Culture," at 4 pm on Wednesday, Nov. 12, 
in the second floor auditorium of the 
Learning Research and Development Cen
ter, 3939 O'Hara Street, the lecture is free 
and open to the public.
Program on Human Sexuality: Homosexu
ality; Wednesday, Nov. 12 from 7-9 pm. 
This lecture discusses the changing societal 
pressures against homosexuality, particular
ly in the psychiatric and legal professions 
as well as the implications of selecting a 
homosexual identity, of engaging in sexual 
activity, of "coming out. Speakers to be 
announced. .Film: "Outside the Golden 
Ring'' documents various examples of un
conventional marriage styles, including: an 
age marriage, homosexuals, mate swapping, 
an interracial couple, an open marriage, 
and a couple living together.
'Prevention and Treatment of Burns,"
will be the topic of this week's free public 
seminar to be held at the Central Medical 
Pavilion on Thursday, November 13, 1975 
beginning at 7:30 pm.
This seminar which is the ninth in a series 
of eleven will be held in the Central Medi
cal Pavilion dining room, located on the 
first floor. The session will be conducted 
by a medical specialist and a question and 
answer period will be provided.
The Central Medical Pavilion is located at 
1400 Centre Avenue, directly across from 
the Civic Arena. Enclosed parking available 
in the adjoining parking garage.
The speaker for this week's seminar on. 
"Prevention and Treatment of Burns," 
will be Harvey Slater, M.D.
/
Hunt Library will remain open until 9 pm
on Fridays instead of 6 pm. E & S Library 
will open at 10 am Sundays.
Women's Collective is sponsoring an in
formal discussion on Homosexuality in the 
SUPA lounge (in Margaret Morrison) on 
Thursday, November 13 at 6:00. Members 
from Persad will be there to talk with any
one interested about the gay life-style -- its 
problems and pleasures. This discussion fol
lows the Wednesday night Human Sexual
ity lecture on Homosexuality. The campus 
community is encouraged to attend. 
Squirrel Hill N.O.W. will meet on Tuesday, 
November 11, 1975 at the Jewish Com
munity Center (Y-IKC), Forbes Avenue 
near Murray. Topic for discussion will be: 
Future Directions for Squirrel Hill N.O.W. 
Public Invited!
Sierra Club Meeting. A talk entitled En
vironmental Conservation Problems of the 
Laurel Highlands" will be presented by Bill 
Curry at 7:30 pm, Wednesday, Nov. 12 at 
the Pittsburgh Garden Center, Shady and 
Fifth.
Open Forum
All Students are invited to attend an 
Open Forum with the members of 
Student Senate.
The Forum will focus on the Senate; the 
faults, the advantages, and the alter
natives. Student Senate only exists 
through your concerned interest and 
activity.
Nov. 12. 1975 
5:30 Wherrett Room
Spring Carhival Committee will be having a
meeting in Room 33 of Skibo at 8:00 on 
Sunday November 16. If you are interested 
in helping to organize and run carnival, 
please come to this meeting. Also leave 
your name and phone at the Information 
Desk.
The Association of Women Scientists and
Engineers will be sponsoring Ms. Joanne 
Huddleston, recruiter from Alcoa Co., to 
discuss how to go about interviewing for 
jobs. Wednesday, November 19, 1975, 
6:30 pm. Room 11 Skibo (across from the 
Art Store).
Please make note of the following changes
in the academic calendar, spring semester, 
1976:
-SPRING CARNIVAL is changed from 
April 23 and 24 to April 9 and 10. 
-COMMENCEMENT is changed from 
Monday, May 10, to Saturday, May 8. (The 
hour remains unchanged, 10 am).
The Girl Scout Council would welcome
your offer to become involved as an Assis
tant Leader, or a Resource Person, for a
10-week period. If you enjoy working with 
young children, if you have a special skill 
(and just about everybody does!), why not 
visit the Girl Scout Council office at 327 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, or telephone 
566-2570 to enroll. It's rewarding to be 
of service!
The Oakland Review, C -MU's Magazine of
the Arts, seeks submissions of poetry, fic
tion, essays, critisms, plays, translations 
and black-and-white artwork for the 
Spring, 1976 issue. Deadline is mid-Janu
ary. Place manuscripts in our mailboxes at 
the Skibo Information Desk or in the Eng
lish Department Office. There will be a 
staff meeting on Tuesday, November 11 
at 7 pm in Skibo Room 53. All are welcomp
We need talent. Spirit, the Black student''
voice on campus, wants you to participate 
in its annual Talent Show as part of the 
"Black Week '76'' festivities. ALL TAL
ENTED INDIVIDUALS ARE WELCOME. 
For more information contact either Renee 
Sloan at 6^^-8889, or Martha Ford at 682- 
8876
Having trouble with your courses? FASTFree Academic. Student Tutoring is now 
available in most CIT, MIS, and Architec
ture lower-level courses, as well as some 
H&SS courses. Stop by Peer Help, 
BH 150-A or call 621-9900 for further 
information.
Classified
EARN MONEY!! Sell Ads for Thistle.
Come to Room 11 Skibo, 7:30 pm, Nov
ember 13, or call Debbie Brannich: 687- 
2837.
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874
Earn up to $80.00 per m^nth for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 6:45 to 5:30 Mon
day through Friday. 682-3190.
Are you: A sophomore interested in Dental
School; interested in a scholarship? Call 
624-6397.
Are you: A sophomore; interested in Med
ical School, interested in a scholarship? 
Call 624-6397.
Homosexuality
Wed. Nov. 12
in Breed Hall 
Margaret Morrison
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 11, 1975Page 5
Candidates for Student Senate Elections
*9
*
Questions:
(please answer both questions below)
1. What should be the function, in your 
opinion, of the Student Government 
Corporation?
2. In the Carnegie Commission Report 
Governance of Higher Education, 
the Commission States that it is gene
rally sympathetic to greater student 
participation in those areas of gover
nance where they have substancial in
terest and adequate competence, and 
where they will assume responsibility. 
We believe that in such areas students 
can. inform the decision-making agen
cies about their experiences and de
sires, give good advice, exercise good 
judgement, and support innovation.
In what areas of governance are stu
dents adequately competent and will
ing to assume responsibility?
Daberah Brarrick, H&SS
1. The purpose of the Student Govern
ment should be to protect the best 
interests of its students. The elected 
representatives should keep the stu
dent body well-informed about its de
cisions and those decisions should be 
made on behalf of the represented. 
At all times the Student Government 
ought to have the goals of the students 
clearly in mind. The Student Govern
ment Corporation can not afford to 
act as an entity in itself without giving 
due consideration to those it acts on 
behalf of.
2. There are many areas in which the stu
dent is adequately competent to as
sume responsibility. Those include 
budget management, activities deci
sions and policies which have an out
standing effect on academic or social 
life on campus. There is a vocal mi
nority at CMU which is clearly cap
able and willing to provide input into 
the government that makes these 
policies, As adults, there is no ques
tion that these students are competent 
to participate in advising in decisions 
which affect their daily lives.
Ardraw Rebart Fsrk, CIT
1. Student Government Corporation is a 
vehicle through which activities, ser
vices, and representation to the cam
pus community are provided by and 
for the students here at Carnegie-Mellon. Through the Student Senate, the 
legislative body of SGC, the wishes of* 
the student body are represented and 
acted upon. It is my belief that I am 
capable to represent the students of 
CIT, and thereby help SGC perform 
the function for which it was created.
2. It is my belief that there are many 
areas in which students are willing and 
competent to assume responsibility in 
governance as it applies to CarnegieMellon University. The areas of Stu
dent Affair and Activities, Campus 
Secutity, Residence Life and Living, 
Cirriculum Planning and Longterm 
University Planning are only a few of 
these. In addition, I feel that all pro
grams and activities funded exclusively 
by students should be governed by 
students with administration and 
faculty in advisory positions.
?????????????????????????????
ELECTION PROCEDURE
Any student wishing to vote for the candidates of their choice on Nov. 
13 and 14 may do so by following this procedure.
1) Stop by the voting booth for your constituency all CIT/MIS 
students go to the poll in Doherty Hall, all AMS/GSIA/SUPA 
students go to the poll in GSIA and all H & SS students go 
to the poll in Baker Hall, all CFA students go to the poll in 
CFA. Freshmen go to the poll in the college they specified 
on their 3D forms at registration.
2) Show your student ID to the poll worker who will check it 
against the list of eligible students in that college and then 
give you a ballot.
3) a) Vote for number of candidates listed at the top of the bal
lot.
b) I If the number of listed candidates is less than that num
ber or if you have some other choice you may WRITE his/ 
her name in the write in spaces provided. UNDER NO CIR
CUMSTANCES SHOULD THE NUMBER OF CANDID
ATES VOTED FOR EXCEED THE NUMBER OF SEATS 
AS STATED AT THE TOP OF THE BALLOT. IF THIS 
HAPPENS IT WILL INVALIDATE THE BALLOT.
4) Check your ballot and then put it in the ballot box at the 
pool.
Thank you for voting.
Derald Simer, MIS
1. Student Government Corporation 
should research and develop ideas and 
projects that Student Senate either 
doesnt have the time or expertise for. 
Possibly, these could include projects 
of an eflterpreneur nature, such as 
aiding the development of students 
business, something on the order of 
Entropy of University Graphics.
2. Students are capable of governing 
most facets of student activities 
including financing, planning, and 
regulating these activities. The student 
body is also sufficiently competent to 
be self-regulating, to a certain extent. 
For example, Student Senate could 
easily cope with a noise problem in the
Following are the Fall 75 candidates 
for Student Senate:
CFA  8 seats
John Giangregorio 
Rea Rosa V. Lloyd 
CIT  8 seats
Rich Bogovich 
Chud Fuellgraf 
Andrew R. Funk 
Gregory Martin 
Miguel Santoni 
Peter Yacoe 
GSIA  1 seat 
H&SS  5 seats
Deborah Brannick 
Lori Goldstein 
Gwendolyn Holland 
MIS  3 seats
Michael Shaunessy 
Donald Simon 
Mike Steidel 
Estelle H. Whitney 
SUPA  1 seat 
Richard Edahl
dorms, or devising smoking regula
tions, but a problem necessitating the 
expulsion of a student does not fall 
into the area of competence of stu
dents.
Estalla H. Citray, MIS
1. Excepting for the ownership of the 
WRCT license, the SGC has been 
allowed to lie idle for too long. The 
corporation should attempt some busi
ness ventures, say, partial ownership of 
some outside businesses, or perhaps, 
ownership of some outside businesses, 
or perhaps, an instrument as the SGC 
should not be ignored.
2. Students are quite capable to assume 
responsibility in any area of gover
nance. Although interest levels do 
vary, individuals with interests rela
tive to any field in consideration can. 
always be found. Therefore, students 
should be allowed and even persuaded 
to aid in the government of all facets 
of college life.
Architects
continued from page one 
University Administration or the Adminis
tration or the Faculty of the Department 
of Architecture.After the announcement 
regarding the headship, Both Dr. Cyert and 
the students indicated that fears about all
iances had been unwarranted.
In the begining student interest in the 
matter was intense. Over 200 students 
showed up at the first meetings held Nov
ember 2 and 3. However at a similiar meet
ing called for November 8, only 20 stu
dents were present to discuss where they 
should go from there regarding the pro
blems of the department.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-November 11, 1975
Applied History for CMU
Boxes for the People
By Claire Lee
There are now some 800 mail boxes pur
chased by the University years ago, stored 
in the lower level of the Science Hall mall. 
Bill Dillon, CMU Business Manager, states 
that there have been proposals in recent 
years for these boxes to be used by com
muters and students who dont have resi
dence hall mail boxes. He has sent out let
ters to deans, provosts, and heads of student 
organizations in attempt to solicit the pros 
and cons of such an endeavor. The boxes 
can be made functional for a minimal in
stallation fee, the sacrifice of a classroom 
size space and a modest yearly operating 
cost.
There are, however, several problems. 
First, whose resources aregoing to be 
used? In terms of money, Dillon says it
most probably will not be much of a pro
blem. The question is where to put the 
mailboxes. Two suggestions, both of 
which he is not too pleased with, have been 
to have them in the lower level of the Tar
tan Grill or in the previous vending ma
chine area opposite the Post Office (Baker 
Hall). Secondly, there is the question of 
the assignation of possibly 3 non-resident 
students to the use of one mail box. Can 
confidentiality and trust be maintained in 
such a situation? The boxes, if installed, 
will be used mainly to facilitate the dis
tribution of official documents, but pri
vate mail, processed slower than normal, 
would also be delivered.
As of now, Dillon states that everyone 
favors.it, except for money and space.
It most likely will be done. He guesses 
that it will be a reality by September 1976, 
by Laurie Trask
The Applied History/Applied Social 
Statistics Program,'is, according to Peter 
Stearns, A unique program combining 
statistics and social science, with a strong 
emphasis on history. Dr. Stearns, along 
with George Duncan (Statistics), Charles 
Manski (SUPA), and Joel Tarr (History and 
SUPA) are working on a committee to fur
ther develop this graduate program, which 
should be fully implemented in the next 
few years.
The program idea began last year when 
members of the history department (Peter 
Stearns, Lou Schaefer, Joel Tarr and Barry 
Beyers) decided a new type of doctorate in 
history was needed, a doctorate program 
that would bring the analytic skills of a his
torian to bear with contemporary social 
problems. This approach reflected a feeling 
that many policy studies, and analysis that 
went along with it, failed to recognize 
some, of the lessons of history, explained 
John Crecine, the new dean of H&SS.
Last spring there was a great deal of dis
cussion going on about the future direction 
of H&SS. There was a general feeling that;
the proposal would have to reflect contem
plated changes in the college. The proposal
was later approved in principle by the uni
versity, pending close examination by the 
new dean (Crecine).
After Crecine reviewed the proposal, 
questions were raised about the details. 
Crecine appointed Stearns to head the 
committee; its purpose being to further ex
pand the program; to clearly define job op
portunities for students and research op
portunities for faculty; to fill in more de
tails; and to reflect the stronger social 
science base.
The program has begun this year, in the 
form of two pilot courses for graduate stu
dents: Quantitative History, and Social 
Processes. Stearns hopes that at least two 
new graduate seminars will be implemented 
in the spring: Methods of Researching So
cial History, and Policy Decisions.
Many different kinds of professional re
searchers could come out of the Applied 
History/Applied Social Statistics Program, 
once it is established within the university. 
Researchers could be hired by either gov
ernment, business or trade unions to study 
current social problems in relation to history' ?
Wisdom comes by disillusionment -
George Santayana
TMKSWy
JF0RUM5
NOVEMBER
20
al Perception:
What You See 
What You Get?
Mark Friedman, 
Psychology Dept.
12:30 
Wherrett Room Bring lunch and a friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

L a6ed-g6l 'LI Jaquj0AOfg-NvlyV1 3H
MJOM a)} ui si
JJB8H 
A |/M
(1) Former President of CMU, H. Guyford Stever; (2) Former Acting Chairman, Dept, of Drama, Baker Salsbury; (3) Former Director_of Housing L James Curl; (4) Former Dean of H&SS, Erwin Steinberg; (5) Former Director of Security Services, Ron Taylors (6)
,c  "V?rnpr*TS "9*fVfCCT fcurmntiy on leave) James Booton; (T) Former Director ofrQperations. Harty, (8i.f<irjjier _ , ,Zi J?<* Bothner-By; (9) Former Chief of Operations, Ronald Rutledge; (10) Former Director of Housing Diane CastellT and m* I Former Head Resident, Peggy Hair; (11) Former Director of Student Activities. Robert W. McCurdy. V W
>pn| poos 'mou s|qj Bujpeaj 
jou 8je A|qeqojd pue NVldVi 941 P69-1 
J0A9U A|qeqojd noA j.Bi|i sajBOjpu! z MO|aq ajoos 
e :o;b|c| puauituooaj sm pue aoueisjsse |euoin; 
aujos asn p|noo noA ieqj saiBOjpm go ajoos 
b rqiuoai b aouo ;sB3|iB NVldVi 9M1 P139-1 n0/^ 
| Bi|i sajBojpuj 6-9 o ajoos b :Buo| ooi ajai| uaaq 
3abl| noA ;bl)1 sa;B0|pu! os|B puB ajoos jouadns 
A|nji b saiBOjpuj aAoqs jo oi 1 ajoos vaBBd
aqi o wouoq ai|i ie sj Aa>| Sennate am dtei 
no A ae sajiiiBuosjad ni/'JD luaoaj asaqi j.o gtetl 
ae A^jiuap! oj gSSG iSG noA aijAuj ajo^ajai); aM 
Aijunujujoo snduiBo am o isaj am iiijM paJBijs 
aq p|noi|s i|aj. aMjBi|i sjoiBJismiuupe ni/MD *sed 
o uoiioanoo e aaiSie aiuBO pJBoq |B|joi|pa NV1 
-yvi 9M1 '9I! oio^d jno 6u|Ma|Aaj a||MM
/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-November 11, 1975
Career Notes: Life After Tech?
How often have I sat with a student 
who, when faced with the question what 
do you expect to do with your life after 
you leave Carnegie -Mellon responded 
with one of those all too familiar lines.!*! 
dunno; I suppose I never really thought 
about it or I really havent the least idea 
of what I am able to do and that classic I 
plan to go to graduate school so I can think 
about that for a while. I believe we all 
agree that the considerations, which play a 
role in a decision or series of decisions 
about a career,are so far-reaching, and at 
times obscure tnat as human beings we are 
tempted to delay facing the reality of a 
career choice and hope the course of 
events in our lives will determine this for 
us. Its somewhat like the analogy of a 
particle of gravel carried along by the 
current in a stream. Somewhere, a niche in 
the streambed will block its meandering 
path. The planning and implementation of 
a career direction can and should be far 
more deliberate than the travels of our 
anonymous piece of gravel.
Its also clear to me there is some de
gree of misunderstanding about j.ust what 
a career is or is not. A rather common no
tion that I encounter in students is that of 
placing undue emphasis upon that first job 
decision. That first step can be important 
but a career is employment in a lifelong 
series of occupational or professional 
roles. The first job is not a career and 
should not be viewed as a choice carved in 
granite ^nd forever immune to alteration or 
redirection. However, it can and sometimes 
does take on that quality, if one permits 
this to happen, and the result is a person 
generally burdened with a frustrating sense 
of underfulfillment and a society deorived 
of the innovation and energy of one of its 
number. Each experience, mvuivement, 
project, task, job, etc, can be a learning
experience and another link in ones career 
chain, ideally, complementing the former 
and enhancing the prospect of success in 
subsequent undertakings.
A career is best viewed as a dynamic and 
developmental process. Interestingly, the 
basic conceptual framework for looking 
at careers and occupation is a relatively 
recent contribution of Dr. Eli Ginzberg of 
Columbia University. In 1951, Ginzberg 
theorized that occupational choice is a 
life-long process; the process is largely ir
reversible, and every occupational choice 
is, of necessity, a compromise. Other 
scholars,including Holland, Roe and Super 
have also contributed to the research and 
literature in the field to the extent that 
great deal more is known today about ho 
ones lifework pattern evolves and the role 
the individual plays in determining the di
rection it will take. I dont dismiss the 
chance appearance of just plain luck or 
happenstance as sometimes being instru
mental in the career success one enjoys, 
but I also firmly subscribe to that line used 
frequently by most press-worthy football 
coaches of making your breaks. If you 
are thoughtful and deliberate, have a good 
understanding of yourself and your capaci
ties and have some reasonably attainable 
goals ahead of you, opportunities can be 
recognized,and career and life satisfactions 
can be enjoyed.
Ginzberg speaks of those years in the 
late teens and early twenties as a time of 
occupational realism, when young people 
have advanced betyond the fantasies of 
adolescence and the tentative roles they 
see for .themselves in the early teens. John 
Holland, at this point, calls for a person to 
begin a serious inventory of themselves 
through self-evaluation. In tandem with 
this is an equally important task of under
standing the world of work and of relating
ones education, values, skills, personality, 
and interests to the realities of this market
place. Many career counselors place three 
fundamental quetions before students:
. . . What do I want to do? . . What am I 
able to do?. . . Where do 1 want to do it? 
These are certainly basic considerations for 
any young person at the threshold of mak
ing important career decisions, but the first 
question that needs answered is what1 do I 
know about myself?:WhileI raise this ques
tion in the context of career choice, it is a 
fundamental call that has been echoed by 
philosophers and scholars throughout the 
ages. In the case of determining one's life 
work, this becomes a practical application 
of this concept that can produce more im
mediate and tangible results.
J. Dennis Ryan 
Director, Career Services & 
Placementt
BURKE FELLOWSHIPS
Burke Marketing Research Inc. of Cin
cinnati supports two fellowships each year 
in the MBA program at the University of 
Cincinnati. These awards provide full tui
tion. In addition, the Burke Fellow is re
quired to work for the firm the equivalent 
of four school quarters and is paid an hour
ly rate appropriate to the responsibilities 
of the position held. The school-work 
schedule is flexible and can be arranged by 
alternating a quarter of full time work with 
every quarter of school. Details of the pro
gram are available in the Office of Career 
Services & Placement. Application dead
line is March 15, 1976.
AID INTERNSHIPS
The Agency for International Develop
ment of the State Department has an
nounced its program of Internships for
1976. These appointments are for a period
of two years to locations in Africa, Asia 
and Latin America Applicants must be U.S. 
Citizens and candidates for graduate de
grees in Civil Engineering, Economics, IA 
or SUPA. Interested students should send 
their resumes to:
James J. Redfern 
Chief Recruitment Branch 
US Department of State 
Agency for International Developement 
Washington, D.C. 20523 
The Deadline for applications is December 
12,1975.
A reminder ... Test Application Dead
lines:
LSAT-Jan. 8, 1976 for February 7 Test 
GMAT-Jan. 9, 1976 for January 31 Test 
PACE-Dec. 12, 1975 for January Test 
GRE-Nov. 19, 1975 for December 13 Test
IAESTE (International Association for 
the Exchange. of Students for Technical 
Experience) has announced its program 
of summer traineeships for engineering, 
science and architecture students. Host 
employers are located in Europe, Africa 
UK, and the Middle East. Details of the 
program are available in the office of Ca
reer Services and Placement. Application 
deadline is December 15, 1975. 
REGISTRATION PROCEDURES
Student Instructions for Registration, November 20-21,1975
1. Obtain from your departmental office a Class Order Form.
2. After discussing your Spring course schedule with your advisor, complete the Class Order 
Form.
3. Your advisor will approve your schedule by signing your Class Order Form immediately below 
the last course listed.
4. Obtain from your advisor your packet or OMR cards. You need one of each course. Note: 
The student number indicated on the cards is the number which must be used for this semester 
even though you may now have a different Social Security Number.
5. Complete the course, section and unit part of the cards. Write the correct information in the 
blocks provided and also complete the corresponding marks in the OMR area of the cards. 
Please make these marks with a No. 2 pencil.
6. Deliver each Student Class Card to the particular department offering the specific course 
in which you are registering.
7. If you are unable to gain entrance into one (or more) of the desired courses, have your advisor 
approve an alternative choice by again signing the Class Order Form immediately below the al
ternative choice course.
(Repeat steps 6 and 7 until you have successfully registered for all courses.)
All students are strongly encouraged to participate in registration. Participation in registration can
insure your enrollment in particular courses in January. If you delay selection of courses until
January, desired courses may be closed and therefore unavailable.
8. Your spring semester course schedule will be printed on your 3D form whichj must be picked 
up on January 4 or 5, 1975.
PROCEDURES FOR STUDENTS WHO DO NOT HAVE 
A STUDENT CLASS CARD PACKET
1. Check the department control list to see if a pcaket was prepared. If the name appears on the list 
and the packet cannot be found, the student should go to Science Hall 8208, where a pac 
ket can be prepared.
2. If the naem does not appear on the control list, the student should go first to the Registrar's 
Office before going to Science Hall 8208.
NOTE: If a student has recently changed departments, the packet may be found in the 
former department.
Location of Departmental Representatives during
Registratio. Submit Student Class Cards at the
following locations:
A & MSGSIA 200
ARCHITECTURECFA210
ARTCFA304
BIOLOGICAL SCI.SCAIFE 110
BIOTECHNOLOGYSCI. HALL 1325
CHEM. ENGINEERINGDOHERTY 1102
CHEMISTRYDOHERTY 2114
CIVIL ENGINEERINGPORTER 117
COMPUTER SCIENCESCI. HALL 4212
DESIGNBAKER 359
DRAMACFA 108
ECONOMICSGSIA 307
ELECT. ENGINEERINGHAMERSCHLAG 106
ENG. & PUBLIC AFFAIRSSCI. HALL 2305
ENGLISHBAKER 255B
GSIA
HISTORY Et PHILOSOPHYBAKER 240
INTERDISCIPLINARY-CIT/MISSCAIFE 110
INTERDISCIPLINARY-H ? SSBAKER 260
MATHEMATICSSCI. HALL 6121
MECH. ENGINEERINGSCAIFE 406
MET. & MATERIALS SCIENCESCI. HALL 3325
MILITARY SCIENCEGYM 208
MODERN LANGUAGESBAKER 232B
MUSICCFA 105
NUCLEAR SCIENCE & ENQ.SCAIFE 217
PHYSICAL EDUCATIONGYM 104
PHYSICSSCI. HALL 6325
PSYCHOLOGY 11 EDUCATIONBAKER 342E
SUPAMMCC 107
SOCIAL RELATIONSMMCC 307
STATISTICSSCI. HALL 8101
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 11,197&-Page 9
Catch a Rock for a Pet
news briefs
from UPI
The idea of owning a pet rock must be a 
good one, becuase they are selling very fast 
at Nieman Marcus, Liberty House and 
Macys these days in San Francisco. As 
the manual which goes to pet rock owners 
notes ... A pet rock makes no mess, 
eats no food, can defend you from attack, 
and needs no license. The new craze is 
the creation of adman Gary Dahl, who got 
to talking with a rock owner at a tavern 
one day and decided it was a good idea. 
Now Dahl and his wife run Rock Bottom 
Productions, a company that is selling 
rocks by the thousands.
The Federal Government says it wont 
be long before it will begin accurately 
predicting earthquakes. At an San 
Francisco conference on earthquake warn
ing officials said the Chinese already are 
forecasting earthquakes, with some success.
The Drug Enforcement Administration 
says it has broken what it calls a major 
heroin smuggling ring operating in Los 
Angeles and New York City ... seizing 55 
pounds of brown Mexican heroin valued at 
30 million dollars. Among 11 men arrested 
are six illegal Mexican aliens. An official 
says the entire organization faces conspir
acy charges in New York City.
Hawaiians protesting the use of the tiny
island of Kahooling asa US Navy practice target staged a bit of 
aerial target practice themselves Friday. 
A light plane dropped flowers and propa
ganda leaflets printed on edible rice paper 
on the islands only residents-a herd of 
goats. ^
President Ford say he didnt feel a 
thing, but a Hartford, Connecticut TV 
station (WSFB) says it has the whole thing 
on film. Witnesses say Ford was hit on the 
head Friday during his visit to Massachu
setts with the staff of a US flag held by an 
excited young boy ... and they say a 
secret service agent promptly slapped the 
stick and flag to the ground.
-ir
A half century study of 700 gifted 
women says those who followed careers 
are more satisfied with their lives than 
those who are solev housewives. The
Stanford University project said, however, 
that nearly all of the women responding 
to the survey said they are happy.
The Civil Aeronautics Board has ap
proved a three per cent increase in domes
tic airline fares...just in time for the 
Thanksgiving and Christmas peak travel 
periods.
****************************
NEWS
TARTAN'S NEWS STAFF IS HAVING ELECTIONS TO FILL 
THE POSITION OF NEWS EDITOR ELECTIONS WILL BE HELD ON 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 12 AT 7: 30 IN ROOM 50 SKIBO 
POSITIONS ARE ALSO OPEN FOR ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR 
AND TRAPEZE EDITOR. 
*****************************
r
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY - - SATURDAY 9:00 - 5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 601-8811(
III!
Il
MSM
!
WM
Homse Hxueal leityi31y5eSl .meByuSeaE Lymayu
BAGEL & LOX BRUNCH
At Chatham College
Sunday November 16 11a.m. 
Where
Conover Room in Mellon Center
Informal brunch -- No speaker 
Cost for food: $1.25
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
tip
mm1!|!it
//; 
.Y.v
Radio Club on the Beam
by Frank Stein
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club, W3VC, 
participated in a test of amateur, non-com
mercial, communications last week. The 
object of the twenty-four hour test was to 
contact as many amateur stations as pos
sible using only morse code (CW). On Nov
ember 22 another test will be held allowing 
only phone transmissions. The public as 
well as other hams are invited to stop up to 
the radio clubs shack at HH401 between 
4:00 pm Nov. 22 and 4:00 pm Sunday, 
Nov. 23.
The club is having a most successful
year. Twelve new members have joined the 
club so far this year. Code and theory 
classes are being held for those attempting 
to gain an amateur license. Several weeks 
ago, these new members helped to install 
two new antennaes, which should greatly 
increase the stations range. The club 
members are providing communications for 
the buggy freerool and have volunteered 
their services for the Carnival day.
A Hamfest, consisting of a flea market 
of electonics equipment, and possibly sev
eral dealer displays, is planned for Decem
ber 7. All electronics buffs are invited to 
this event which will be held in Skibo.
Government Corporation
continued from paae one 
Senate, and so many of them were not too 
very interested in the Corporation. And 
since several people would often be chair
men of these committees within a year, the 
membership of the Board of Directors of
ten changed also, which hampered its 
activities considerably. The two other 
changes that were made in the by-laws 
should correct this situation. "
One of the. Twinges allows any student 
at CMU to be one of the five student mem
bers of the Board. The other members of 
the Board of Trustees of the Corporation 
will be a member of the CMU Board of
Trustees, and two other persons to be ap
pointed by the Senate. The other change in 
the by-laws makes an appointment to the 
Board of Trustees a two-year position, un
less a student graduates before his term is 
over.
The Corporation began at its last meet
ing, when these changes were approved, to 
discuss possible projects. The projects dis
cussed were setting up a copying service, 
and placing pinball machines in the rec 
rooms At its next meeting, to be held 
later this month, the Board members and 
officers will interview those persons who 
are interested in becoming Board members.
Drive abargain.
PERDAY
Blus 10 
per mile
We feature GM cars and 
offer S&H Green Stamps 
on U.S. rentals.
Now you. can rent a new 76 air-conditioned 
Cutlass Supreme or similar car from National 
?or only $5.95 per day, 10< per mile. 
Rate available Friday noon to Monday noon. You 
pay only for gas you use.
For reservations, call us today.
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444 
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
National Car Rental
'Net rates subject to change without notice 
Car must be returned to any location listed above

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANNovember 11. 1975
The Pittsburgh Ballet Alive & Well
by J.O. Fletcher
Obfuscated but not truncated by 
the Pittsburgh Symphony strike, the Pitts
burgh Ballet Theatres initial opening 
scheduled for earlier this month occurred 
Thursday evening at the Syria Mosque. 
Due to the efforts of the company, offi
cials, and volunteers the benefit perfor
mance was more than the expected success.
On terribly short notice, six days in 
fact, the company assembled a crowdpleasing program especially designed to 
display the companys stronger points.
Pas de Dix, originally from Glazounovs 
Raymonda featured JoAnn McCarthy and 
Alexander Filipov in a crisp" and neat 
divertissement and variation alternating 
with four other couples. The dancing of 
Filipov was intelligent and somewhat 
restrained but that of McCarthy was full 
of fire and emotion necessary to make 
such a well known piece exciting.
Steel Symphony, a world premiere, was 
an unexpected surprise. Seen twice this 
summer, this work was clouded and lacked 
focus. Editions, additions and general 
cleaning-up have given this piece an assured 
niche in the companys repertoire. Though 
without setting and limited use of lighting, 
the general overall theme of steel and steelmaking was quite evident. In a case where 
the music should command and preceed 
the dancers movements, the Balada score 
did so in an almost Stravinsky-like fashion. 
Jordeen Ivanov was superb in this some
times sculpted and sometimes lyric work. 
Terry Dorado, her partner, executed a 
remarkable solo where, in mid-air during 
his grand jetes, the forward leg was thrown 
back producing a double split in the air 
effect. Jeanne Loomis and Greg Begley, 
a couple that work very well together, 
complemented the angularity of Dorado/ 
Ivanov by dancing with a loose, lyric quali
Pennsylvania Ballet comes to Pittsburgh
on Tuesday, December 2nd., following a 
series of performances at the Academy of 
Music in Philadelphia in which all box of
fice records were broken. Pennsylvania 
Ballet is currently enjoying its most suc
cessful season in Philadelphia, with season 
subscriptions almost doubled and single 
ticket sales tripled over last year.
The program for the December 2nd., 
performance at 8 P.M. in Heinz Hall com
prises Beethovens Adagio Hammerklavier, with choreography by Hans van Manen; Brittens In Retrospect, choreogra
phed by Robert Rodham, Ballet master of 
Pennsylvania Ballet, who created the work 
especially for the company; and Bizets 
Symphony in C, with choreography by 
the great 20th century Russian born chor
eographer, George Balanchine, the most 
influential figure in contemporary Ameri
can ballet.
Tickets for the December 2nd., perfor
mance range from $7.50 to $4.50 and are 
available at Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbels Hornes and Kaufmanns. Discounts 
to students and senior citizens are avail
able at Heinz Hall, and for details of dis
counts to groups of 20 or more, phone 
(412)355-0330.
ja Irtarratieral Peatry Fersm wfll pra.1 Carolyn Kizer and Naomi Lazard in a 
joint reading of their poetry on November 
19 at 8:00 p.m. in Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
This will be Ms. Kizers second appearance 
for the Poetry Forum. After her graduafrom Sarah Lawrence College, she was,
ty that evoked thoughts of a smoldering 
jazz number.
The piece, in essence, went from con
fusion to unity and the dancing from good 
to excellant.
A saccharine little number, the ribald, 
comedic Soiree Musicales was third on the 
program. This piece jests at three couples 
attired in ethnic garb and executing steps 
identified with their nationalities and hu
t mors. The piquancy of the number was 
that each couple continued to upstage the 
others until the music ended and it was 
time to take their bows. The mistakes 
were built in so it was quite easy to get 
away with just about anything.
The classic pas de deux Don Quixote, 
definitely the highlight of the evening, was 
danced by Jordeen Ivanov and Alexander 
Filopov. This is a first class showpiece de
a Fellow of the Chinese Government for 
Columbia University. Ms. Kizer founded 
the quarterly Poetry Northwest in 1959 
and subsequently directed the literary 
programs of the National Endowment for 
the Arts. Her books of poetry include 
Knock Upon Silence, The Ungrateful 
Garden, and Midnight Was My Cry.
Naomi Lazard was born in Philadel
phia and attended the Institute of Design 
in Chicago. Her work has appeared in 
many magazines including The Michigan 
Quarterly Review, The Chicago Review,1 
Harpers Bazaar, and The Saturday Re
view. Her book, Cry of the Peacocks, 
was published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Inc., in 1967.
Tickets are $3.00 and are available to 
students and senior citizens for $2.00. 
Tickets may be purchased at Kaufmanns,, 
the Pitt. Student Union and the Interna
tional Poetry Forum office in Carnegie 
Library in Oakland. For more information 
call 621-9893.
The International Poetry Forum is spon
sored by Carnegie Library under a grant 
from the A. W. Mellon Educational' and 
Charitable Trust.
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh's Fall Con
cert is scheduled for Monday, November 
17, at Sacred Heart Church, Shadyside. 
The Program will include Mozart's Corona
tion Mass and the Faure Requiem. Also on 
the Program * Bach Cantata No. 51. The 
Concert time is 8 p.m. Soloists will be 
Miriam Kelly, Barbara Stamy, John Klingensmith, and Jerry Shannon with accom
paniment by Jack Purcell's Orchestra and
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
DISCUSSION PRESENTATION
"ZEN AND THE ART OF MOTORCYCLE MAINTENANCE: 
A Theological Inquiry"
Monday, November.17 
7:30 P.M.
SDC Room Moorwood Dorm Complex
Co-Sponsored by the CMU Campus Ministry Council 
and the Office Residence Life
signed for finer dancers with abilities to be 
displayed. Alexander Filipov, trained at the 
same school and by the same teachers as 
Barishnikov, exhibited his fine Kirov tech
nique. From the waist down, his dancing 
was flawless; perfect turnout and perfectly 
pointed feet. Always. But his arms tended 
to get away from him especially during 
preparations for pirouettes. Still, he had a 
tremendously fine dramatic sense. Jordeen, 
who moved as if she were born in toeshoes, had an almost unbelievable arched 
foot, and her extensions were nearly a full 
ninety degrees. Her dancing was quick yet 
thorough and she executed each step with 
a sass and try and do thatV 
most apropos for this number. In a solo 
section with a fan, the fan became an 
extension of her hand as she closed and 
opened it as easily as she batted her eyes. 
She was the temptress, beautiful, hot-ice, 
unobtainable. Together Ivanov and Filipov 
made a remarkable team. Especially during 
the bravura one-hand lifts of Ivanov by 
Filipov; the harmony between the two 
presented a dynamic force that nearly 
forced some to their feet in awe.
The evening closed with Gopak, an 
ethnic number that began slowly with the 
males pairing off with the females. Sud
denly the lights came up full, and the 
youths began to celebrate, executing 
various stunts and acrobatics until each 
becomes more amazing until the finale, 
an orgy of joy and youth. (I would like to 
mention the various dancers but there were 
no programs.)
It was a very clever program with some
thing for everyone; with various degrees 
of dancing that for the most part was ex
cellent.
The remainder of the season is still 
somewhat up in the air but with an 
attitude like that displayed on Thurs
day, the company will not remain idle for 
any great length of time.
Organ continuo by Gretchen Franz. Tick
ets $3.00, students $2.00, at Kaufman's, 
Horne's Downtown, Sears Retail Stores, 
Pitt Student Union.
ERRATUM: David Matthews byline was 
left off the SHHH review which ap
peared in the November 4 issue of the 
TARTAN.
r
VIDMUKat ce.
Artist's
Supplies
209 S. Craig St. 
Oakland 
621-0529
9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays

---------------------------------------------------

AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES
LOCAL ABORTION &
thisw ekNsiko vmehohshbr
215-449-2006
THE TARTAN-November 11,1975-Page 11
Mahogany
by John Morris
The woman every man wants, and ev
ery woman wants to be, according to the 
films promoters is Mahogany '. Incredibly 
enough, by the end of the film, you be
lieve it. The story follows the rise of a wo
man from Chicagos ghetto to the summit 
of the fashion world, international 
fame and wealth. What could be 
more appropriate as a starring 
vehicle for Diana zEt11F The 
movie becomes secondary to her 
presence; in fact, she is the 
movie. Living proof that 
the star system is not 
dead, Diana Ross salvages 
what would otherwise 
be a soap-opera/ 
fashion-show mishmash.
You begin to 
realize how bad the mate* 
rial is when it ensnares 
performers as Billy Dee Williams 
and Anthony Perkins. Williams plays the Chicago politi
cian, whom Diana Ross falls in love with, and after 
achieving success as a dress designer, ultimately 
returns to. You cringe as you hear him speak 
lines like, Success means nothing without someone 
to share it with, or These people here need some
one to lead them, and Im going to be the one, as the 
music swells. He is a caricature of the male chauvinist in 
love, though luckily, some of his magnetism survives and 
emerges as a sort of diamond-in-therough.
Unfortunately, Anthony Perkins doesnt fare so well.
Becoming a parody of all the neurotic roles weve ever 
seen him play, hes the famous photographer who discovers 
Ross in a department store, and then exerts a Svengali-like 
force on her, renaming her Mahogany and making 
her the worlds most famous model. Especially 
painful is the scene in which he and Ross are forced 
to lay naked together in bed, apparently after 
unsuccessfully attempting sex. She tries to comfort 
him with the words, It doesnt matter, as 
his face contorts into a leftover still 
straight from Psycho. The audience is 
relieved to learn of his death, assured 
that he will no longer be seen.
Unsurprisingly, the films best 
moments are those that find Ross 
alone on the screen. The talent is 
more vibrant than when it first surfaced 
with the Motown
sound over a decade ago. Her portrayal 
throughout the movie is believable and 
on key; her command and naturalness 
before the camera is reminiscent of
a Bette Davis or an Audrey 
Hepburn. Shes most expres
sive in scenes burdened with little 
or none of the dialogue: inspired 
concentration as a young fashion 
student in Chicago, cleverly discouraging 
a would-be molester on a dark 
Southside street,, haggling mutely 
with an Italian cab driver, 
or the scene where, at a 
near-nervous collapse, she dis
robes and freakishly drips 
hot wax on her face while 
dancing at a Roman transvistite 
disco. The costumes, which 
Ms: Ross designed for the film, 
are stunning, and the cinematography 
here is excellent: misty 
and atmospheric as Ross 
and Williams walk, talking 
idealistically, through a bom barded 
Chicago slum; cold and gaudy un
der the neon lights of the Loop 
as Ross rides away in a taxicab 
on her way to Rome. Had the_ Jdialogue been more subtle and 
sophisticated, the plot less trite and 
predictable, it could have been 
not only a first-class performance 
but a first-class picture.
Mahogany does manage 
to make a wry comment on the 
fashion business - on those who 
cling to, exploit, and abuse 
beauty and talent. This attains 
a strange irony when one realizes 
how closely this parallels the 
business relationship between 
Diana Ross and Berry Gordy, 
who produc ed and directed 
the picture. As the years go
by, it becomes evident 
that Ms. Ross work 
is being limited by 
the Motown monopoly.
J? There IS a - difference!!!
PREPARE POR:MCAT 
DAT LSAT GRE ATGSB OCAT CPAT FLEX ECFMGNATL MED BDS 
Over 35 years of experience and success
Small classes
Voluminous home  
study materials 
:
Courses that are constantly updated *
Make-ups for *missed lessons *
Local Classes
681-9735
fitarnPger2 afenf-TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE I93fc
1)25 1AJIDO*.* ftOAjS ,0 ~m Mttfbarsk H 15217 -*k* Branches m*Ux U S.Cilia*
PIATIGNUM ITALIC SET
Con rams a fountain pen, five 
Otalic niSs, and instruction 
manualaiC foronfy $f.oo... 
At art materiaC &pen sfiops, 
cotfeye fook stores... or send 
check to (Pentafic Corp., 132 
glj West 22 St., N.y, N.y. 10011 
Add 50 cents for fiandfiruj.
WOMZVtS Collective
HOMOSEXUALITY
An Informal Discussion 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 13
In Supa Lounge 
1st Floor  Margaret Morrison
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS...................................................7:00 P.M. - Tectf^buse
SUNDAY MASS.............................10:30 A.M.  Science Hall (6m 7500) 
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Fri.).......................................5:00 P.M.  tech House W
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English ^ { 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 62J-201fi
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
Mis
Israeli Dancing
every Thursday 
7:30 p.m. Hillel Lounge
^Eiai)
Speaker:
Topic:
Place:
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
Israel Night at Hillel
Roni Ofer, Israeli Shaliach 
Israel, You & Me 
Hillel Library
Thursday NOVEMBER 13 8 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-November 11,1975"Sabrina" Fares Poorly
By Susan N. Klein
In Sabrina Fair at the Nixon Theatre, 
Sylvia Sidney held forth like a feisty crabapple. As Julia Ward McKinlock, play
wright Samuel Taylors cliche of a Wo
menss Magazine editor in 1954, she is 
supposed to be sour grapes, easily dislodg 
-ed Mid the taste washed away. But from 
her first entrance Sidney picked up the 
audiences attention and held it all evening, 
as if it were an olive she was dropping into 
her martini glass.
Shes a tiny woman with silver hair and 
big, black, fake-lidded fog eyes; she com
manded the stage effortlessly with a crack
le of her voice and a et of facial muggings 
any seasoned stage comedienne' Would be 
proud to own. She has boundless energy. 
She seemed younger than anything else on 
the stage, younger than the ingenue, 
younger certainly than the play itself. A 
musty, urbane, stuffed-shirt comedy in its 
own day, in 1975 it suffers rigor mortis.
Director Harold J. Kennedy has assem
bled a company of familiar television and 
screen faces for this revival; he appears in 
if himself, bobboling onstage every so of, 
ten, decked out in black tie and tails, ro
tund, balding, big-lipped, Alfred Hitchock 
looking as if he has just dribbled a cocktail 
down his chin. The cast includes relics like 
Maureen OSullivan, Tarzans Jane, who is 
fine as Kennedys exasperated wife. Then 
theres Art Fleming who is playing Sabri
nas father, the chauffeur. But only in pro
file; evidently Kennedy told him not to 
move around too much on the stage, or 
else hes accustomed to the television 
camera, in any case he looks postively 
embalmed.
The play was uncomfortable in the Nix
on Theatre; the proscenium is cavernous 
and the actors couldnt be heard. The 
freatre itself was nearly empty and so the 
voices echoed all over the place. Kenne 
dys staging relies too heavily on the neverquite-making-it-as-wit dialogue. The bitchy 
one-liners are posing as Americanized Noel 
Coward repartee, and the disguise never
Disguise doesnt work for the actors, 
either. Katharine Houghton as Sabrina 
makes her first entrance all done up as 
Katherine Hepburn (her real life aunt) in 
Philadelphia Story, her long hair in a bun, 
classy, cashmere-y clothes. When she 
opens her mouth and forces her words into 
crisp nasal phrases, the effect is a rather in
sulting *im personation, nepotism be damn
ed. Robert Horton, who was a TV star 
like Man from Shenandoah and Wagon 
Train, looks a little out of place swagger
ing around a Long Island estate with his 
thumbs hooked into his belt-loops, but he 
makes an engaging enough romantic lead.
Perhaps if the audience numbered more 
than a handful' this production might not 
have had quite such* a desperate aspect to 
it. The newly re-opened Nixon will be 
housing touring companies throughout the 
season; musical comedies will undoubtably 
attract more Pittsburghers. And this par
ticular mounting was not helped by the 
television airing of the film Sabrina Fair 
picked ,,an unfortunate time to make its 
visit. However, do rush out and buy Syl
via Sidneys two books: Sylvia Sidneys 
Needlepoint Book and its sequel, Sylvia 
Sidneys Question and Answer Book On 
Needlepoint, as the Playbill seriously ad
vised. I hope someone gave that woman 
works. the key to the city.
11. The Letter That Johnny Walker 
Read - Aslaap at Tha Chaal
12. Billy Gat Ma a Woman - Jea Stamplay
13. I Believe In Fairy Tales - Tammy 
Cyratta
14. Today I Started Loving You Again - 
Sammi Smith
15. We Used To - Delly Parter
16. She Even Woke Me Up To Spy Good
bye - Rerria Milsap
17. Love Put A Song In My Heart - 
Jehrry Redrigsaz
18. You Ring My BeU - Ray Griff
19. Something Better To Do - Olivia 
Nawter-Jehr
20. I Should Have Married You - Eddia 
Rabbit
Cemplimarts ef UPI
1. Are You Sure Hank Done It This WayBob Wills Is Still The King - Cayler 
Jarrirgs
2. Rocky - Dicky Laa
X Its A11 In The Movies - Marla Haggard
4. I Like Beer - Tem T. Hall
5. All Over Me - Charlia Rich
6. Whats Happened To Blue Eyes - Jassi 
Celtar
7. Love Is Like A Rose - Lirda Rerdstadt
8. I'm Sorry - Jehr Darvar
9. (Turn Out The Light And) Love Me 
TonightDer Cilliams
10. Secret Love - Fraddia Fardar
the only way to truly remember that
"THESE ARE 
THE GOOD OLD DAYS"
ffiJ . PAiDt
A.*
Subscriptions for Thistle 76 are going 
on sale only once this year:
NOVEMBER 11-14 
9 am - 5 pm 
BAICER HALL
Seniors $9.00 All others $10.00 
(minimum deposit $5.00)
lON'T MISS OUT! THIS WILL BE 
fYOUR ONLY OPPORTUNITY 
TO ORDER YOUR COPY OF

---------------------------------------------------

//, /f?5~

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-November 11,1975
Down to
by John Mangano
The video addicts of Pittsburgh may surrender the 
flickering gray glow of the screen for the light of day 
when word gets out that Mr. Spock is in town. With 
bleary-eyed fanatacism they will scour the science labs 
and lecture halls of the area in search of the half-man, 
half-Vulcan hero of countless Star Trek groupies. But 
file down those famous pointy ears and rob him of his 
exotic birthright, and what you have left is a man. A 
mere mortal named Leonard Nimoy, who is scheduled to 
appear at the Pittsburgh Public Theatre later this month 
as Malvolio in Shakespeares great comedy, Twelfth 
Night.
The center to Twelth Night, says poet Mark Van 
Doren, is the character of Malvolio. The drama is be
tween his mind and the music of old manners. Malvolio 
is, of course, the priggish steward, whose condescending 
attitude towards the raucous clowns of Illyria results in 
his downfall. After an intensive first week of rehearsals, 
Mr. Nimoy explanined that I am not thinking of 
Malvolio as a dark or light character. Ben (Shaktman, the
TRAPEZE
Earth with Leonard
director) and 1 are trying to deal with him as a person, 
his physical, physiological, his social and psychological 
aspects. Let the audience make their own decisions, 
based on his actions. They will tell me what I did with 
Malvolio.
Nimoy has managed to deal with his image in the 
public eye as Spock, by doing  a wide variety of roles 
each^year. I dont see myself being limited to type..If 
other people do, thats their problem. I dont have to 
work it out for them, too, do I? Nimoy has always 
considered himself essentially an actor of the theatre 
despite the fact that his greatest success has been in tele
vision. But Star Trek fans might be surprised to know 
that since his 1939 appearance in Hansel and Gretel at 
the tender age of eight, Nimoy has appeared on count
less stages, essaying roles in such varied works as 
Faustus, Streetcar Named Desire and Camelot. His fas
cination with the works of Jean Genet resulted in a role 
in the screen version of The Balcony, and the filmic 
rights to Deathwatch, which he co-produced with Vic 
Morrow in 1966. His first starring role in motion pic
tures came with Kid Monk Baroni in 1952, and through
out the golden age of Television he played supporting 
roles in Rawhide, Perry Mason, Gunsmoke, Twilight 
Zone, Bonanza, Get Smart, Dr. Kildare, and The Man 
From Uncle.
Sure, I get some little kid coming up to me after 
Ive just played Caligula and saying Can I have your 
autograph, Mr. Spock? But Im used to that. If I hadnt 
played Spock I wouldnt be here now. (Star Trek's 
creator, Gene) Roddenberry has more of a problem than 
I . do. His identification is so specific, and he 
hasnt any kind of ethereal sense.
Nimoy was enticed onto the Pittsburgh stage by his 
friend Ben Shaktman, who had previously directed him 
in straw-hat productions of Fiddler on the Roof and The 
Man in the Glass Booth. His enthusiasm for the project 
prompted him to choose the PPT over a six week stint
_ i
Nimoy
in London, and a five week tour with Cybil Shepherd in 
A Shot in the Dark. Strange enough, most people  
are shocked to find that I had never done Shakespeare.
I have been connected, somehow, with a classic form of 
theatre. But the desire to do so became a gnawing 
thing. Its one of those elements that would be very 
much missing, particularly doing as much stage work as 
I do.
Offered the choice to play in either of the first two 
PPT productions, Nimoy opted to continue instead with 
his lecture tours: I read my poetry, talk about my life,  
Star Trek, contemporary reality as it applies to science 
fiction, personal philosophies, and my work. The actor 
has come to Pittsburgh fresh from a tour in which he 
visited 17 cities in 15 days. I felt it would be pushing it 
a bit to do two plays here, because it would attract too 
much attention to those particular roles in what essen
tially should be an ensemble company. And were makFI c
G
ORBES TREET ALLERY j
cu| R.CJ.F
NO
*UDIA PAUSEiOLDSTEINtEMPEL
WNOU. 22
ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS
CHRISTOPHER'S 
KING SOLOMON
DANCE/CONCERT
Friday, November 14 - 8:00 
SKIBO BALLROOM
PRODUCED BYPMM
Tickets: $1.00 CMU Students & PMM Members 
$1.50 College Students in Advance 
$2.00 General Admission at Door
I
I
I
i

---------------------------------------------------

IE THE TARTANNovember 11, 1975Page 15
ing an honest effort to say were doing Twelfth Night, 
not Joe Star in Twelfth Night.
The disillusioned actor has had one Broadway offer 
since: To replace Clive Revill as Professor Moriarty in 
the long running Sherlock Holmes. He refused, partly 
because of his feeling that the unions are destroying 
the New York stage. The Dramatist Guild (for ex
ample) has created an atmosphere in which the writer is 
the god; you cant change a damn word he doesnt want 
to change. As a result, the actors in Full Circle played 
in New York the same bad script we rehearsed six weeks 
earlier. . .In California, when you buy a script, its the 
same as buying a can of beans. You can rewrite it throw* 
it down the toilet, or shoot it. On the set, you know 
what the scenes supposed to do, and if its not doing 
it, you have the right to say I need a line here. Each 
moment of shooting youre making adjustments. 
Nimoy is not hesitant to discuss his Star Trek career, 
and there is no question in his mind that the role of 
Spock has developed him as an actor. He has recently 
completed an autobiographical work, in which he de
voted a chapter to the popularity and durability of Star 
Trek and his character. The show, then and now, (in
reruns), stands in an interesting juxtaposition to current 
events: the war, assasinations, campus crises, corruption. 
Heres a show where everythings as its supposed to be. 
We know who the bad guys are, and we can depend on 
the good guys to take care of business by the end of the 
hour, particularly Spock, who is totally honest, reliable, 
no BS. And on that level it resolves a lot of tensions we 
have about what our life is like today. And (the crew 
comprises a) family unit that youre comfortable with. 
This is a hopeful show. It says, in effect, that were still 
around in the 22nd Century, that we havent done 
ourselves in as a planet, and weve managed to establish 
interplanetary relations that are working.
J$tar Trek may hopefully live on not only in numer
ous TV reruns, but as a major Paramount Picture. 
Theres a script being written.. .If they shoot it, maybe 
theyll call me. . .If I like it Ill say how much money 
are you going to pay me, whos going to direct, whos 
going to play the captain? Gene Roddenberry had 
previously submitted a script to the producer, which was 
rejected. I would hate doing a bad Star Trek movie. I 
would feel awful if I were involved in a rip-off that was 
just cashing in on the title.
Leonard Nimoys one brush with Broadway came 
in the fall of 1973 with Full Circle, a play directed by 
Otto Preminger that dealt with Nazi Concentration 
camps. The experience was not the fantasy that I held 
about breaking in a new play at the highest possible level 
... I believed in the script, there was the chance to work 
with (co-star) Bibi Andersson, and there was the Broad
way thing ... I wanted to say to myself: Okay, one 
time in your life you went Broadway. But I wouldnt 
do a script that I hate because it was Broadway .. . The 
critics were very kind to Bibi and I. But one said that 
Ottos direction was a disgrace to the American Theatre. 
I told Premminger that working with him was like going 
to a picnic in Auschwitz. Bibi was in tears every day of 
rehearsals. Thats his directorial approach: Scare the shit 
out of the guys, and make all the girls cry.
Despite his extensive tours, Nimoy bemoans the fact 
that I dont get to" know cities very well, just the space 
between where Im staying and where Im working. 
Nevertheless, he says that the cast is very impressed 
with the city. It doesnt support the grim, dark, sooty 
image one has of Pittsburgh. Theres a vitality. . . Part 
of that vitality, he feels, generates from the Public 
Theatre. There is going to be an interest in this theatre, 
there is a need for this kind of operation. The only sad 
thing is that the capacity is very limited, with only a 
300 seat house. This summer, in Milwaukee, Ill be 
playing My Fair Lady in a theatre that holds 2200. 
Those Trekkie fans lacking the stamina to squeeze 
their way into the ticket line at the PPT will have an
other chance to greet their hero in the flesh at the 
Star Trek Convention to be held December 12-14 at 
the Pittsburgh Hilton. Nimoy will make a guest appear
ance, along with Enterprise crew members DeForrest 
Kelly and George Takai, on the final morning of the fes
tivities.
B1NAI BRITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
ROLLER SKATING
Saturday November 15
9:30 p.m.cider & donuts 
10:15 p.m. bus leaves 
1:00 a.m.bus returns
$1.50 covers skates and transportation*
Coon ra nmo Csra futti up nmo es,vsaO locrSm duyy$arni 
doano. pu. Oua$nSA &rOo. saO t$Sk
RESERVATIONS: Call 621-8875
*Bowling extra
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
Can dittesf
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER 
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS  RESUMES  CATALOGS  POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS  BUSINESS CARDS  FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS  BOOKLETS  SCHEDULES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16THE TARTANNovember 11, 1975
SPREADING THE GOOD NEWS
An Interview with Bruce Breland
by Cindy Schwab
The morning had advanced into the afternoon by the 
time I finally left Bruce Breland. Another question 
would have generated anothers hour discourse, and I 
already had more than enough to fill a chapters worth 
on contemporary art. We met in the coffee room on the 
third floor in Fine Arts, a makeshift lounge thats 
fostered much memorable, and regrettably unrecorded 
dialogue. Having come prepared with a list of the usual 
questions, I immediately found them inappropriate. One 
does not ask an unusual man usual questions; so Bruce 
talked, I wrote, and occaisionally interrupted with pleas 
for clarification, repetition, and rest.
Its difficult listening to, much less writing about this 
artist who charms your into a reality that most of us 
know only second-hand through art books and slide 
lectures. Bruce chats about famous artists as we do 
about old friends. Skipping paragraphs, forgetting 
punctuation, disregarding tense, he lobs into abstractions 
that rebound with import and insight, like the artist 
who intentionally * distorts the figure to sharpen out 
senses and widen our perception, this artist speaks with 
common words in an uncommon usage. His interviewer 
is kept spellbound with labyrinthine idioms and amusing 
anecdotes that are entries to this progessionals complex 
framework. Breland is totally aware and involved in the 
world we take for granted, negotiating with it until it 
becomes slower, more understandable, his. Molding his 
speech with gestures and care, he breaks into smile at 
particular efforts; his searching eyes beg empathy. Threeand-a-half hours, ten pages of notes later, he induced 
mine.
Brelands biography resembles his speech-ideas and 
projects recur, despite the apparent drift. After gradua
tion from Western Michigan College as an art major with 
special emphasis in liberal arts and art education, he re
ceived his MFA in painting and design at the Cranbrook 
Art Academy. With his formal education behind him, 
Breland began to make real decisions that would affect 
his career and future. Departing from his contemproaries 
who went on to the Institute of Design in Chicago to 
study BauHaus design, which he considered too struc
tured and overpowering, Breland instead spent time in 
Kansas City. He then ventured to the University of 
Mississippi, where he admits his best painting material
ized, attributing this to a filial identity with country 
music and the boonies. While there, he initiated pro
grams in design, earning the nickname, the Art 100 
guy. In protest against state jurisdiction, most of the 
faculty resigned, which sent Breland to the State Univer
sity at Oswego, New York. His ext post returned him 
to the Midwest at Carbondale, Illinois, the longest stint
in his career. The concept of design courses for liberal 
arts majors was then pursued in a gradual evolution of 
what we know as Art Foundations.
Marshall McCluhan, that nutty professor, and 
Allan Kaprow, who could seduce the paint off the 
wall, led Breland to Canada. Greatly moved by 
McCluhans maxim, that the Medium is the message, 
Breland saw the exciting fusion of art and technology 
culminate in Canadas Expo 67. Abandoning painting 
as painting, he explored this marriage with his Mixed 
Bag, an exhibition and performance of media, while 
artist-in-residence at University of Wisconsin at 
Milwaukee in 68. About that he comments; It sold 
iteslf out because it lacked financial support. People 
wont pay for no object, when theres nothing to 
sell. It became repetitious and boring. It couldnt
contend with theatre, discotheques, and pop music, like 
the kind of show Alice Cooper stages. So Breland 
left for Pittsburgh in an effort to declare his indepen
dence from Kaprows suffocating influence.
All of which brought Bruce Breland to CMU in 1968 
to occupy the position of Department Head that was 
left vacant after the Department split into its two op
tions of Painting & Sculpture and Design. As an ad
ministrator, his first item of business was to bridge 
the generation gap, which was invented before (he) 
arrived here. When students reached the pinnacle of 
radicalism, Breland was confronted with the almost 
impossible task of turning the negative into the posi
tive, ugliness into beauty. Having come with great 
expectations, he deserves the credit for the initial 
development of the craft workshops in Doherty Hall. 
But Breland is reluctant to consider glassblowing, pot^tery,cceramics, and weaving as mere crafts and insists 
upon raising them to the status that sculpture holds. 
^Beyond the realm of the artisan, of making the object, 
the artist forms concepts. Breland ponders a mo
ment, cracks a smile, and challenges, Who will drink 
from a Tiffany vase? We strive for that excellence.
Art Foundations and Design were first offered in 
1971 to fill a brewing desire on the part of liberal arts 
and science students, deprived of such instruction and 
facilities rightfully reserved for art majors. The informal 
structure of the courses allows Breland to assess each 
student individually, .to direct energy to their own 
positive, residual ways. But, he reminds, they al
ways have a base line on which to return when theyre 
stymied. This attitude instills confidence in those who 
have never held a pencil for purposes other than writing 
papers and numbers. His intrigue with technology has 
proitipted the utilization of 3M and photomechanical 
processes as instructional methods that were intended 
for clerical use. It also clues the curious student to the 
origin of the masthead on Brelands weekly newsletter.
%
CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD
PRESENTSMARK LANEON
WHO KILLED KENNEDY?
MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 7:30 SKIBO BALLROOM 
CYRIL WECHT
ALLEGHENY COUNTY CORONER 
"VIEWS ON THE CONSPIRACY THEORY 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 18. 8:15 WHERRETT ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN-November 11, 1975-Page 17
Poems by Trissy Bowers
Breland doesnt allow his teaching to interfere with 
his artwork. If the university was an interruptions, Id 
hang it up. Like quality, if you allow it to be an inter
ruption, then youre shirking your responsibility.1 
The dual role of artist and teacher is not designated by 
time slots. The free exchange between students and pro
fessor are mutually beneficial. He quotes John Cage, 
-Everyone is in the best seat. Each student is at his 
'own particular vantage point that permits individual 
expression. For this reason, Breland does not live vicar
iously through his students. It is their work exhibited 
on the wall, and not his.
Breland uses the word negotiation repeatedly; its 
implications pervade every phase of our existance. One is 
always confronting someone, something, and must come 
to terms with it. In Brelands case, its technology which 
C needs to be shaped, transposed into experience, into art. 
The artist is much more dependent upon technology 
than he assumes; it provides him with his materials, 
ideas, and the means of effecting his work. The over
worked split between art and technology loses ground 
when their dependence is explored, but its frictions ar 
realized when the artist himself is incapable of achieving 
his work. Artists have always gone to the foundry, 
laments Breland. When a sculptor creates a monumental 
|, piecem he often serves only as the supervisor in charge 
of the consturction thats out of his hands. What Breland 
terms as the DaVinci complex, contributes to the 
culture clutch in which many artists find themselves. 
The artist requires some degree of familiarity with tech
nology if he is to create with it. Holograms and lazar 
beams, for instance, have great potential to expand 
from their present, rudimentary states.
Because the university cant always provide the 
I necessary technology for large-scale projects, Breland 
has sought industry within the city for support and facil
ities. Art has always depended upon a private wealth. 
Its unfair to say that art will change with a govern
mental change, to compare the U.S. with Canada,
where art and technology have been married successful
ly. This country has a long tradition in art, where 
Canada has adopted our technology and gone beyond 
it. Theres nothing wrong with business. Breland 
quotes Ed Reinhardt,  the business of art is not busi
ness, the art of business is business.
Art is Big Business, which explains the heavy migra
tion to New York, which offers the best opportunits 
for recognition and success, you wouldnt find the 
New York Stock Exchange, or a Robert Scull in 
Pittsburgh ... Smaller cities import culture, reflect what 
is going on in larger cities ... If there was a reason for 
art, thered be more a response, than the limited num
ber of dealers and galleries. Making it requires a degree 
of Professionalism. The tragic life of the artist is 
passe. You have artists living on Long Island in $100,000 
homes. It is the artists responsibility to spread his 
name and work. The artist must negotiate for himself; 
if hes got an idea, he becomes his own PR man. An 
artist who* writes about his work is sometimes more 
revealing than a professional critics commentary. 
Breland admires certain critics like Harold Rosenberg, 
Clement Greenberg, but the populist Tom Wolfe is all 
wrong: writers dont create art; art creates writers. 
Professionalism is a goal to which Bruce Breland 
aspires and achieves, in his teaching, in his artwork. 
Speculating that hell be involved with painting for 
the next five years, he comments that despite the 
vectoring trends in recent art, artists are becoming 
more intellectual and introspective. The artist has 
the freedom, unlike the scientist, to do what he wants; 
he has the time tp be involved with life. When I get on 
a bus and see all those tired people, I ask myself if I 
feel as tired as they look. If Im not, then I havent 
been doing very much. Bruces eternal optimism 
dictates his outlook and lifestyle. Kaprows dictum is 
deeply ingrained, Dont attack the things that lead to 
success. Teaching has brought success to Bruce Breland, 
and success has brought Bruce Breland to CMU, and 
thats good news.
back to wind.
sand needling pain on my cheek, 
curled in upon myself, 
feeling the cold in my stomach
until you come, standing on top 
of the dune, you sweep me away 
doubled like the wind couldnt.
D..
people call you gentle, 
your words are measured, 
hands move languidly, 
eyes work like crystals that take 
in white light, give out rainbows 
from a hard core.
you are a vine that grows
to the heart, twines
among the veins and, with embraces
takes the blood, you leave,
needing more for the soft padding
around your brittle core.
big car, waxed black, 
chrome mirroring dried thistles, 
wintering trees, pistons pump blood, - 
feeding spinning feet, nose pressed 
to asphalt, smelling out dotted 
tracks, it bays for the coon.
November 11 -14
TODAY THRU THURSDAY
9 A.M.5 P.M.
BAKER HALL LOBBY
THE ONLY TIME TO ORDER
Please bring $5.00, (minimum deposit)

---------------------------------------------------

sports
Win streak Broken
Denison player tumbles Mike Gallawayand stops the shot.
Photo by Mary K. Groupe
Hockey Team Loses 
Shut out by Bears
by Wimpnoid
Saturday night the Hockey Club travel
led to Columbus, Ohio to meet the Deni
son University Bears for the first time in 
the Clubs five year history. More novel 
that that, however, was the total absence 
of scoring by the Tartans as they were shut 
out, 4-0. Lack of defensive hustle and 
weak shooting permitted the capable 
Denison club to take the game.
Frank, Scuillis solid performance in the 
net held the Bears to a single goal until the 
middle of the third period when a series 
of penalties against Carnegie-Mellon open
ed the way for three unanswered goals.
In the first period, despite the fact that 
four key C-MU players were lost on the 
Columbus Beltway looking for the right 
exit, the Denison goalie was forced to 
make some big saves. Skip Wallace broke
loose with the puck at his own blue line 
and skated in alone on the Denison goalie. 
His low shot to the right comer was block
ed nicely and the rebound steered off to 
the side. A goal at that time may have 
changed the complexion of the game. In 
fact, the outcome was in question until 
Denison scored its third goal with less 
than four minutes remaining in the game.
The Tartans take their 1-1 record to 
Erie against Gannon College this Friday 
and return, at last, to the Civic Arena on 
Sunday, November 16th, to host the 
Duquesne Dukes. Game time is 3:00 pm. 
This coming weekends games are critical 
in building the necessary self-confidence 
enjoyed by the Hockey Club in the past.
Shots on goal: Denison-29, CMU-25. 
Scoring by periods: Denison 10 3-4 
CMU 0 0 0-0
COLLEGE FOOTBALL SCORES
Albany St., N.Y. 66Plattsburgh12
Albright 20Lebanon Valley12
Allegheny 21 *Thiel0
Alma 22Ohio Northern6
Amherst 20Trinity, Conn.17
Appalachian St. 39South Carolina34
Bethany 24W &J13
Belhune-Cookman 21Alabama St.0
Boston Coll. 31Army0
Bowling Green 19Ohio U.17
Bridgewater, Mass. 24Curry7
Brooklyn Coll. 21Iona6
Brown 45Cornell23
Bucknell 24Colgate16
Catholic U. 41Gallaudet0
Central Conn. 7Cortland St.6
Clemson 38No. Carolina35
Concordia, N.Y. 28F.D.U.7
Connecticut 52Boston U.10
Dartmouth 22Columbia17
Delaware 35Maine0
Denison 35Washington & Lee0
Dickinson 14Ursinus9
Duke 42Wake Forest14
Rifle 2-2
by Mark Smith
CMUs Rifle teams score of 1301 
would usually beat most of the teams in 
the league. It certainly should have beaten 
Clarion, whose previous season high was 
in the mid 1270s. However, the opponent 
turned out a 1338, setting a new school 
record for them, and dropping CMUs 
record to 2-2.
High scorers for CMU were Mark 
Smith with 275, Bill Williams with 
268, Russ Beebe and Karen Azinger-255 
and Ron Pontius with 248. The last four 
all set individual records, a sign that the 
team has continued to improve.
Next weeks match is a three way event 
against Pitt and W&J. The team has al
ready beaten W&J, and as long as it con
tinues shooting well, they should beat 
Pitt also.
East Carolina 61Virginia10
East Stroudsburg 28Bloomsburg0
Eastern Michigan 51Illinois St.14
Framingham St. 14Western Conn. St. 7
Furman 34Western Carolina0
Georgia 10Florida7
Hamilton 42Fordham0
Heidelberg 27Otterbein24
Hiram 22Case Western11
Hofstra 40Georgetown, D.C.16
Hope 48DePauw22
Indiana U., Pa. 59Lock Haven7
Iowa 45Wisconsin28
Ithaca 41Rochester Tech0
Jackson State 13Texas Southern9
. Johns Hopkins 37Swarthmore24
Juniata 20Wilkes14
Kent St. 30Marshal21
Kenyon 20Centre7
Kings Point 38N.Y. Tech15
Knoxville 21Morehouse19
Lehigh 37Davidson19
Marietta 25Muskingum20
Maryland 21Cincinnati19
Massachusetts 45Holy Cross13
Miami, Ohio 44Western Michigan 21
Michigan 28Purdue0
Michigan State 14Indiana6
Middlebury 47Union, N.Y.15
Millersville 28Shippensburg14
Moravian 28Frankl. & Marshal 20
Navy 16 .Miami, Fla.16
Nebraska 21Kansas St.0
Nichofts 28New Haven0
No. Caro. St. 15Penn State14
Norwich 44Worchester Tech22
Notre Dame 24Georgia Tech3
Ohio State 40Illinois3
Princeton 24Harvard20
Richmond 7The Citadel0
Rutgers 48Lafayette6
St. John's, N.Y. 21Marist8
Slippery Rock 17Clarion St.14
Southern U. 20Howard U.0
Susquehanna 28Waynesburg13
Temple 45Rhode Island6
Tennessee 40Utah7
Tennessee Tech 14Eastern Kentucky3
Texas A & M 36S.M.U.3
Trenton St. 20Kean Coll.7
Tufts 36Bowdoin35
Upsala 21Seton Hall8
Wayne St. 26Ferris St.14
West Chester St. 23Cheyney St.20
West Virginia 17Pitt14
West Va. Wesleyan 27Geneva7
Westminister 20Gettyburg18
Widener 24Muhlenberg0
Williams 28Wesleyan21
William & Mary 13V.M.I.7
Wittenberq 24Capital19
Yale 24Penn
by Oscar Grouch
With a win streak of three games behind 
them, the Womens Varsity Volleyball 
team traveled to Duquesne to challenge 
the Duquesne Duchesses last Friday night. 
Unfortunately the win streak ended at 
three as CMU suffered their first loss to 
Duquesne by the scores of 15-8 and 15-10.
Last year CMU squeezed by Duquesne 
in a very close and hotly contested match. 
Last years win was unexpected because 
Duquesne had started. recruiting and 
offering scholarships to their players. With 
this extra enticement, it would be just a 
matter of time before the Duchesses would 
move out of CMUs league. The time was 
not this year, however, as CMU provided 
very tough competition.
Duquesne had the first service in the 
first game and they proceeded to win 
six points in a row. After recuperating 
from the first minute jitters, CMU recover
ed and began serving and volleying well. 
The initial six point deficit proved to be 
a barrier that could not be overcome as 
CMU dropped the first game; 15-8.
The second game started on a dif
ferent note however, as CMU plunged 
ahead on Alrie Christians serve. With 
CMU leading by five points, Duquesne 
came back and blitzed CMU with a 
nine point streak. The big problem was 
CMUs return of service volleys. Many 
times the returns were directed off to 
the side or incorrectly handled with 
illegal hits. This made it impossible to set 
and spike effectively. With Duquesne in 
offensive command CMU responded with 
a defensive game which effectively 
checked Duquesnes game. At one point 
CMU came within three points of 
Duquesne on Elly Zimmermans serve. 
The score was 13-10 when the service 
was^finally broken. Duquesne succeeded
in finishing off the game with two succes
sive serves.
CMUs Junior Varsity squad also 
suffered their second defeat of the season 
against Duquesne. The second game was 
very close witii the score of 15-13. The 
team could not come up with the necessary 
plays at the right time.
CMUs next home game will be Mon
day, November 17th against Pitt in the 
womens gym. The game will start at 5 :00.Sports - $
by Elly Zimmerman
In an effort to answer important 
questions regarding CMUs sports program, 
next week the TARTAN will publish the 
beginning of a series of articles evaluating 
the universitys sports policies. The new 
Athletic Director, James Banner, has 
indicated that in the next five to seven 
years definite changes will be made con
cerning varsity sports and the athletic 
program in general. The financial implica
tions of attaining such goals will be analyz
ed. The evaluations will also include a 
cost-benefit analysis of each of the athletic 
programs: Varsity, Intramural and
Womens Athletics.
In past years, CMU students have voiced 
opinions about sports, contrary to those of 
the administration. These articles will 
compare past policies to new policies and 
determine whether such policies are in the 
interest of the majority of the students 
on campus. Suggestions will also be made 
relating to future goals.
INTERCOLLEGIATE GOLF
All undergraduate students interested 
in trying out for the golf team are invited 
to attend a meeting in room 103 in the 
gymnasium building on Thursday, Nov
ember 20th at 4:30.
EARN MONEY
SELL ADVERTISING FORTHISTLE
1A o/ Commission on all 
  Advertising Sold 
For Information - attend the meeting
Thursday, November 13 
7:30 P.M. Room 11 Skibo
OR CONTACT
Debbie Brannick  687-2897

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANNovember 11, 1975Page 19
Final Standings: CMU Hits Bottom
SOCCER CROSS-COUNTRY
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM ...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteers 
are needed for Bioavailability Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scole ranges from $50- 
' $500, depending upon time requirements of the **cdy.
For Complete Details, Please Call
3IODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 662-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exam - 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
I (Do not oat breakfast)
Allegheny College won its first PAC 
soccer title since 1964 this fall, dethroning 
the Bethany Bisons, who had held the 
crown the past five seasons.
The Gators finished at 5-1-0 in the 
league, one-half game ahead of Hiram and 
Bethany at 4-1-1.
It was a battle right to the end, with 
Sam Freas Gators clinching the champion
ship in their last PAC game, overpowering 
Carnegie-Mellon, 11-1.
The stage was set for Hiram to capture 
its first soccer title ever after the Terriers 
and Bethany battled to a 0-0 deadlock.
Pete Branns booters were 3-0-1 with 
only Case Western Reserve and Washington 
& Jefferson remaining.
The Terriers, however, were upended by 
a strong Spartan club, 4-1, just about end
ing their hopes, and paving the way for the 
Gators.
Case Western Reserve finished the* sea
son a very strong fourth place club at 4-2 
and 6-3 overall.
The Gators were led throughout the 
year by a trio of potent goal scorers in 
Roger Nelson, DeWitt Carmer and Mike 
Boyd.
Nelson tied for the league goal scoring 
crown with Hirams Dave Berman. Each 
had eight.
Carmer finished with six goals, while 
Boyd finished with five, including four in 
the Gators victory over Carnegie-Mellon.
Final Standings
League
WLTPFPAPCT
Allegheny510277.833
Hiram4111812.800
Bethany411113.800
Case West. Res.420125.667
Wash & Jeff240713.333
Carnegie-Mellon2401123.3331
John Carroll060629.000
Case Western Reserve won its ninth 
consecutive PAC cross-country champion
ship this past weekend at Sugarbush Golf 
Course in Garrettsville, Ohio.
Coach Bill Sudeks harriers, who will 
now prep for the NCAA Division III cham
pionships in Boston on November 15, won 
the title with 32 points, 12 less than their 
closest challenger, John Carroll, with 44.
Thiel finished third with 88, followed 
by Allegheny 92, Bethany 129, CarnegieMellon 133, and Hiram 196.
Case Westerns Pete Kummant finished 
first, running the five mile course in 26:16. 
John Carrolls Greg Louis was second in 
26:29. Chris Mahoney of Bethany was next 
at 26:58, followed by Doug Leary, CWRU, 
27:05, and Bob Homitsky, Thiel, 27:10.
The first five finishers receive All-PAC 
recognition.
Leary has now been named All-PAC 
four straight years, while Homitsky has 
now earned all-conference honors the 
past two years.
FOOTBALL
What better way to end the 1975 PAC 
football season than to have a champion
ship showdown for the finale.
This past Saturday, Washington & 
Jefferson hosted Bethany to determine the 
new champion of the PAC. W & J last won 
a football title in 1970, while the Bisons 
have not won the championship since 
1966. Statistically, the Presidents had a 
slight edge entering the game but this 
didnt bother Bethany as they clenched the 
title with the score of 24-13.
The final standings left Bethany with 
first, W & J with second, and a three way 
tie for third between CMU, John Carroll, 
and Thiel. Sixth and seventh went to 
Hiram and Case Western Reserve respec
tively. CMU was 3-3 in the conference. The 
last game against Allegheny did not count 
toward the title.
TheLoving Cup
That'* Tech's famous 'de-emphasis' play"
IM SIX PERSON V-BALL
MAJOR LEAGUES
LeftWinLoss
l.SAE-A30
2. BTP-A22
3. GSIA-Major13
4. Kappa Sigma12
5. Psychology14
RightWinLoss
1. Feva50
2. Coaches All-Stars40
3. Theta Xi12
4. SAE-B02
5. Sigma Nu
INTERMEDIATE
0
LEAGUES
Win
4
Loss
l.GSIA-A31
2.PKT32
3. McGilldoes31
4.PKA12
5. Trim12
6. Schlagnurds 0 
MINOR LEAGUES
3
JumpWinLoss
1. DTD20
2. GSIA-B22
3. Anonymous Collective01
4. Jive Turkies11
5. E-Tower Morewood11
6. Lobsters12
OffWinLoss
1. Dirtballs10
2. Hammerschlag01
3. The Moppers00
4.ZBT00
5. Chicken Coop00
6. Spikers00
Fencing 
Tourney
by Elly Zimmerman
On Saturday, November 8th, CMU 
hosted the Three Rivers Invitational Fen
cing Tournament. The events of the tour
nament were Mens and Womens Foil and 
Epee. The only event completed by late 
Saturday was Womens Foil. Two people 
from the CMU Fencing Club reached the 
finals. Judi Offerle, a graduate student in 
GSIA, finished second and Jane Fisk, 
Senior Advisor for the Womens athletic 
program placed sixth.
The competition started by dividing 
the 15 entries into three pools. From the 
preliminary rounds the best fencers went 
on to the semi-finals and finals. The results 
of the finals were:
FencersWinsLossPlace
Maureen Kibert501
Judi Offerle322
Mary McGuire333
Sue Lympany324
Debbie Theriault145
Jane Fisk056
________JOT THIS DOWN___________
IM TENNIS RESULTS-GSIA beat Hammerschlag in the finals on Tuesday, October 
28th.
IM BOARD-Meeting Tuesday, November 
11th, at 4:30 in IM office.
3-PERSON VBALL-Entries are due on 
Tuesday, November 11th.
FACULTY AND STAFF V-BALL-Turn
in entries to Dave Maloney in gym.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-November 11,1975
Student Senate Elections
will be on November 13,11
o
CONSIITUEHCIES SHOULD VITE IN THE FOLLOWING PLACES:
CIT MIS 
H SS 
CFA
IMS GSIA son
THIS IS VOOR CHANCE 10 KOOK WITH SEHITE
Y
DOHERTY HALL 
BAKER HALL 
CFA 
HSIA
fi
?)
V
PLEASE HSE ITTHAHK TOO FOO VOTING
