darntgitartan
VOL. 41No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947
Scimitars Enforce 
Freshman Rules; 
Tradition Returns
Honorary Gathers 
Times and Locations 
Of Activity Meetings
The enforcement of freshman 
regulations, which during the war 
years was almost totally ignor
ed, is now being taken under the 
control of Scimitar, sophomore 
mens honorary, who by strict 
enforcement plan to make this 
tradition a' more vital one. Work
ing with Bruce Murray of Student 
Council, they have been selling the 
Carnegie tartan ties that must be 
worn by all freshman men. They 
also acted as hosts at the Deans 
reception.
Dave Mintz, president of Scim
itar, and Herman John have pro
duced a calendar of the meeting 
times and places of the organiza
tion on campus. By editing this 
information they hope to promote 
more active participation by the 
freshman in extra-curricular ac
tivities.
The following schedule has been 
submitted:
Scottie  Editor: Lee Wiley  
Wed. 4:30Carnegie Union.
TartanEditor: Hubert AaronsonThursday 4:30.
ThistleEditor: Clark Sloan 
Fri. 2:00Carnegie Union.
TechnicalEditor: Robert Siegel 
Sat. 9:30Carnegie Union.
CanoEditor: Marv: Marv Gustavsonnotice of meeting will be 
posted.
Glee clubMr. ShafferThurs. 
4:30Room 103 M.M.C.C.
Radio clubBill KearnsSat. 
afternoonRadio ShackMachin
ery Hall.
Kiltie Band  Mr. Shaffer  
Mon.-Wed.-Fri.Thistle Hall.
WCIT  Ephraim Abramson  
Oct 13  4:30  Radio Studio  
Fine Arts.
Chapel ChoirCharles Tritle 
Oct. 14Exhibition Hall.
Newman Club  Catholic Stu
dents Organization  Registration 
Dance Oct. 17Thistle Hall.
Sports: All sports notices will be 
posted on bulletin boards for both 
varsity and intramural teams.
CitcomFriday, Oct. 10Fresh
man Mixer8:00-12:00Carnegie 
Union.
Calendar of the weeks social 
events has been given as follows:
TuesdayCord Meyers of the 
United World Federalists will 
speak at Frick Auditorium at 8:00 
p. m.
ThursdayConducted tours will 
be, made through the Homestead 
Works of the Camegie-Illinois 
Steel Corporation.
The first social event of the new school year was the Deans 
Reception for freshman men and women given in the Fine Arts 
building last Friday night, after a strenuous registration day.
All freshmen were introduced (1) to Dean of Women Mrs. 
Jessie Yon and Director of the Division of Student Personnel and 
Welfare Dr. Douglas F. Miner by Student Council President George 
W. Marshall. The girls were then escorted by upperclassmen (2) 
to seats in the Little Theatre. They and the freshman boys, who 
were entertained by a show which included a bagpipe recital (3) 
by Walter P. McGhee and a skit (4) with Gloria Bergman singing, 
Kenny Welch playing the piano, and Dave Crantz giving a comedy 
routine.
Student Body Reaches 3600*
As Fall Semester Opens
Large Increase In Attendance \
Return To Two-Semester Year Permits
The beginning of the fall term finds Carnegie Tech with an en
rollment of 3600, the largest in its history.
Of the total enrollment 735 are freshme, 400 in the College of 
Engineering and Science, 175 in Fine Arts, and the remainder in 
Margaret Morrison. This greatly increased number of entering stu
dents was made possible by the return to the two semester system.
? A breakdown of the total enRoom Shortage 
Still Present
Dont be downcast if you didnt 
get a room on campus this fall. 
The odds were better than three 
to one against it, as an estimated 
1400 applications were received by 
the school for the 430 dormitory 
accommodations available on 
campus.
Only a few of the fortunate 430 
are freshmen, as upperclassmen 
were given priority as much as 
possible. This was largely to ena
ble Tech to give students now in 
the dorms or barracks a guarantee 
that they can remain on campus 
until their graduation. Therefore, 
this years disappointed can be 
reasonably assured that once on 
campus, their housing worries will 
be over. At present the only va
cancies on campus are in the fra
ternity houses, all of which are 
reserving room for three to six 
pledges.
The housing situation is consid
erably brighter than last year 
for bachelors. As a result of a 
[Continued on page 4]
CIT Accepts 1 in 10
One person in ten who took 
the recent entrance examina
tions was accepted as a student 
at Carnegie Tech.
The ratio of acceptances is 
much lower now than it was 
before the war because of the 
more rigid entrance require
ments. In February 1946 the 
number of openings available 
for freshmen was considerably 
smaller, and only 200 were ac
cepted from the 7,000 who ap
plied.
These figures represent only 
those applicants who complet
ed enough of the admission 
processing to reach the en
trance examination stage.
Interhonorary Council May Be 
Dissolved During Early Fall
ODK, Mortar Board, Delta Skull, Cwens Ask 
Payment of Their Initiation Fees by Council
Interhonorary Council is threat-* 
ened with dissolution and ODK,
Panhellenic Gives Non-Rush Tea 
For Prospective Members
Sophomore women and upper-* 
class transfer student who have 
been here one semester are invited 
to the non-rushing tea to be held 
in the Carnegie Union on Wednes
day, October 8 at 3 p. m. Those in
terested in joining a sorority must 
attend this tea in order to be eli
gible for rushing. All succeeding 
functions will be by invitation.
Eligibility requirements include 
an average factor exceeding 1.8, 
although transfer students and 
girls with inadequate grades may 
be pledged after the fifst semes
ter if their factor has been brought 
up to the minimum.
One Tea and One Party Each
Between October 10 and 30 
each sorority will hold one tea 
and one evening party. Since these 
are the only social contacts permit
ted between sorority women and
the rushees, each group will make 
these affairs as impressive ps their 
regulation-limited budgets per
mit through the use of unusual 
themes and clever invitations.
On October 27, the sororities and 
the rushees submit preferential 
lists of their choices to the Dean of 
Women who matches the lists and 
mails the resultant bids to the 
girls selected. Written replies are 
returned to the Deans office by 
4:30 p. m., October 30, and open 
rushing continues from that time 
without scheduled functions.
Hats Are Recognition Symbols
As is traditional, each of the 
sororities will have its own bright
ly colored dink or crew hat whicfi 
will serve to distinguish its mem
bers from the other sorority wom
en.
rollment figure indicates that the 
Carnegie women will again en
joy a very favorable ratio, with 
fully 2800 men for only 800 
women, 500 of whom are in Mar
garet Morrison and 300 in Fine 
Arts.
Approximately 80 percent of 
the men are veterans, but the end 
of the flood of ex-servicemen is 
clearly foreshadowed in the fresh
man class, where veterans form 
only half of the total number reg
istered.
The present enrollment repre
sents an increase of 200 over the 
registration of last fall. The maxi
mum pre-war enrollment was on
ly 2400. This increase of 50 per
cent has been made possible only 
through expansion and improve
ment measures which have great
ly increased the cost of operating 
the institution, according to a 
statement made by President 
Robert E. Doherty.
Together, the electrical depart
ment, again the largest in the en
gineering school, and the mechan
ical and chemical departments re
ceived 70 percent of the years 
applications.
The most encouraging feature 
of this registration was the im
provement which the Administra
tion was able to effect in registra
tion line procedures. Freshmen es
pecially went through the com
plete line in quick time and with 
a minimum of confusion.
Mortar Board, Delta Skull, Sci
mitar, and Cwens are attempting 
to have the initiation fees of their 
new members paid by Student 
Council.
The six summer meetings of 
Student Council produced more 
promise of Fall fireworks than
Freslrmen Invited 
To Join Tartan
Freshmen interested in the 
Carnegie Tartan are invited to the 
meeting being held to welcome 
them in the Tartan office on the 
third floor of the Union (student 
activities building) at 4:30 p. m., 
Thursday, October 9. Other stu
dents who have not previously 
worked on the paper are also in
vited to this meeting.
A meeting of all present mem
bers of the staff of the newspaper 
will be held at 4:30 p. m. on 
Friday in the Tartan office.
The Tartan staff needs people 
interested in learning news and 
sports writing, as well as those 
who have art and photographic 
abilities. Student? who worked on 
their high school newspapers, and 
who have had some experience 
in such fields as copy and proof 
nfeading, headline writing, and 
makeup will be especially wel
come.
Printers are needed to assist in 
the modification which the make
up is now undergoing, Typists and 
secretaries, both upper and low
er classmen, are needed most of 
all to speed production of the 
Tartan.
actual results, as Robert Dismukes 
proposed to end the supposedly in
active existence of the Interhon
orary Council. Negley Reed in
troduced the motion to aid the ac
tivities honoraries, a measure 
which has already caused consid
erable comment.
Both motions were tabled until 
one of the early Fall meetings of 
Council.
Activities Keys Investigated
Reed also opened an investiga
tion into the problem of excessive 
distribution of gold-jeweled and 
gold activities keys which has now 
become a full-scale study of the 
entire key award system. All ac
tivities heads are being required 
to submit that part of their con
stitution which deals with these 
awards to Negley for study and 
possible revamping.
Freshman regulations have been 
re-instituted, with Cameron plaid 
neckties being required for the 
men and gray felt hats for the 
women. The Traditions examina
tion procedure wai relaxed, how
ever, and those who fail the first 
one will be permitted to take the 
re-exam in two weeks time in
stead of the usual month. The 
Traditions examination must be 
passed if a freshman wishes to 
remain in activities.
Profit System Questioned 
Art Naylor questioned the pres
ent system of returning all organ
ization profits to the student coun
cil treasury and proposed instead 
that a certain share of the profits 
be returned to the organizations 
making them. The remaining 
money, under this plan, would be 
distributed to such funds as 
grants-in-aid or a general sink[Continued on page 7]
Seward Will Push 
Fight to Kill IH
Accuses Interhonorary 
Of Serving No Purpose
Jack Seward will bring up be
fore Student Council the previ
ously tabled measure to disband 
Interhonorary Council.
Jack, a member of Student Coun
cil, said, I intend to re-introduce 
that motion in the first meeting 
of Student Council in the pressure 
of business demanding immediate 
attention is not too great. 
Interhonorary Council, stated 
Jack, is at present serving no 
useful purpose on campus. It did 
try to sponsor a dancethe Win
ter Carnival in December of 1946, 
but Spring Carnival committee 
had to come in and bail them out 
The committee under Cloyd 
Mellott took over the publicity 
for the dance, gave it a big build
up, then decorated the gym. Un
der the new sponsorship, Winter 
Carnival was at least something 
of a success.
When asked if he intended to 
push the motion without further 
investigation of the issue, Seward 
stated that he would be willing to 
withdraw his motion only if a 
member of Interhonorary Council 
could present conclusive proof 
that his organization was and will 
be of sufficient value to the school 
to justify its existence.
I would define Interhonorary 
Council as an excuse for free 
keys, commented Jack, and this 
is as good a place as any to start 
making an activities key mean 
something.
The Tartan was unable to con
tact any member of Interhonorary 
Council who was sufficiently ac[Continued on page 4]

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947
iCarntgitiEartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 9424.
Editor-in-chief ............................................... Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager .................................... Edward F. FriedmanAssociate Editor ..........'........................................ Anthony ArrottManaging Editor ............................................. Harry J. SilvermanPersonnel Manager ...........................................William P. Cohen
News EditorBarry M. Rowles, Sports EditorPeter Cregut, Copy EditorRobert W. Johnson, Make-up EditorShirley E. Seiner, Assistant Business ManagerSamuel Moses, Advertising ManagerMartin S. Miller, Circulation Manager Ivan Faigen, ColumnistsCarl N. Klahr, Martin Dorff; Viera Kulamer, PhotographersAmes Penfield, Daniel P. Franks, William D. Benswanger.StaffWilliam J. McShane, Dale A. Wright, Doris Mae Becker, Serna Moskowitz, Robert H. Smith, Frederick R. Johnson, Estelle Mattes, Susan Foster, Charles Pollis, Mildred Teague, Robert C. Abelson, Jeanne Fischman, Dorothy Gerkin, Angela Pollis, Beatrice Patterson, Lois Sloan, Anslie Bricker, Marjorie Powers, Aaron Latkin.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City.Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, authorized October 21, 1918.
Freshmen in Activities?
Should I go out for extra-curricular ac
tivities during my first year in college? This 
is the question which most new students must 
ask themselves during their first few weeks at 
school. The problem is both important and diffi
cult of solution. Perhaps this examination of 
the question will help the freshman make up 
his mind and pursue with vigor whatever de
cision he makes.
The first thing which a freshman just ac
cepted by Carnegie Tech hears about his col
lege is that he is entering a good school 
perhaps the best in the country in his par
ticular field. The next thing the freshman is 
told is that Tech is tough. In succeeding 
weeks, he hears little and thinks even less about 
the former. He is finding out that the latter 
was an understatement at best and is trying 
to do something effective about the problem of 
staying in school.
All is Not Special Achievement
If the world were to be based solely on 
ability within ones own speciality and if high 
intellectual achievement in such fields as pure 
mathematics or fine arts were to be regarded 
as sufficient cause to reward their practition
ers with at least an ample livelihood, then there 
would be no need for this editorial. There 
would also be, no Carnegie Tartan, for its 
staff members could more profitably remain at 
home and occupy their time with further study 
or even some sleep.
But we have not yet reached this utopian 
state (assuming that a society in which the 
most acute and creative are the most honored 
and satisfied is the best possible pattern of 
life) and the man who is no more than an 
engineer, to use this occupation as an example, 
is usually not regarded as much of an engi
neer.
Industry has constantly complained to the 
universities that while their engineering grad
uates are reasonably proficient in technical mat
ters, they are quite inadequate at writing up a 
report on their laboratory or field progress, in 
orally conveying the essence of this report to a 
superior, or in functioning effectively as a sales
man for their corporation. On a higher plane of 
leadership, the average engineer is at a disad
vantage in literate conversation with his equiv
alents in other departments and is equally un
able to direct his subordinates effectively. He 
is what inimical circles call a pure engineer, 
a person marked for mediocrity even at the 
pinnacle of his worldly career unless his puri
ty is sufficiently brilliant to make him valu
able in a capacity in which he will have but 
nominal contact with othey people.
Administration Tries To Solve Problem
The Administration under the guidance of 
Dr. Robert E, Poherty has long recognized this 
problem and has tried continuously to solve it 
within the limitations imposed by a four year 
curriculum which is often inadequate even for 
a proper background of subjects which are en
tirely technical. The social relations band of 
studies is their basis for a solution, but dif
ficulty in determining the exact studies to be 
given and the manner in which they are to 
be taught has reduced the effectiveness of even 
this limited program.
But since excuses are generally unpopular 
with the people who evaluate and employ en
gineering graduates (as well as all other pro
fessional people), another solution must be 
found independently of the formal programs. 
That solution is participation in extra-curricu
lar activities to a reasonable extent, as deter
mined by the individual students work load 
and his ability to handle it.
One of the most beneficial activity groups and the one which we can use as an example
Passing Parade
By Carl Klahr
The thud of the tom-tom reverberated through 
the jungle from one end of Ubangiland to the 
other. The paranako, those little birds that nest 
on a rhinoceros back, shivered with fear and bur
rowed deeper into the thick folds of rhino skin. 
Even the gargantuan apes jabbered more softly to 
themselves, realizing the dread portent of the 
hollow drum beat: the awesome humans, lords of 
the jungle, had something new up their sleeves. 
But in contrast to the hush that fell over the jungle, 
the beat of the tom-toms was causing a tumult in a 
nearby Ubangi Village, especially among the male 
population.
Six or Eight?
From time immemorial, shouted a soap-box 
orator to the assembled Ubangis, it has been the 
custom for our women to wear six-inch elephant 
bones through their pierced noses. We all of us 
know that this practice is not founded on useless 
ostentation, or in pride at the length of our wives 
noses. Far be it from that; we are practical peo
ple. For when a woman breathes, the six inch ele
phant nose-bone wobbles, shooing off the poison
ous disease-carrying flies. And we also know that 
Ubangi men pay dearly to protect our women from 
the flies. How many of our companions have been 
killed in the elephant hunts? How many a widow 
has been compensated for the loss of her husband 
by a shiny new six-inch elephant bone?
Aye, the men sighed in chorus, feeling their 
lamed thighs and twisted jaw bones.
Yet now brothers, and the voice of the speak
er (who by the way had no lamed thigh, no twisted 
jawbone, but an irate wife) now, brothers, a cry 
has gone up that the elephant bone nosepieces 
must be eight inches long. We have racked our 
brains to understand what useful purpose this 
can serve, for if a six-inch nosepiece does not 
frighten the flies away, surely an eight incher will 
be no better. Furthermore, after diligently search
ing for those who originated this bamboo-brained 
idea, the women simply tell us that they say so 
and who they are even the women do not know. 
Yet this montrous idea gains ground; if we are not 
firm we shall soon have to go on safari to the ele
phant lair, and how many of us will return hale 
and whole?
Down with Eight-Inch Bones
As one man, the huge crowd shouted Down 
with eight-inch nose bones. Men and women dele
gates of the LONC (Little on the Nose Committee) 
and the WWSF (We Want to See Their Faces Club) 
paraded, and picketed bone trimming shops. In 
fact, the sentiment against eight-inch nose pieces 
seemed so unanimous that one wondered that it 
was taken seriously.
When the cheering subsided, the Ubangi minis
ter of defense stepped onto the soapbox and made 
a very solemn face. The audience screwed up their 
faces into serious looks, too. The minister wiped his 
face with a handkerchief and addressed the crowd: 
"Fellow Ubangis, you all realize by now how eightinch nosepieces will affect you personally. But 
how will it affect your nation? Fellow citizens, it 
will put us in an entirely undefensible position. 
You know that to our north lives that fierce and 
terrible race, the dusky-ruskies. Our only defense 
against them now is the trackless elephant lair, 
which stretches between our land and theirs. Kill 
the elephants off for nosebones. and we will be 
overwhelmed by the dusky-ruskies within a mat
ter of days,*
The Ubangis received this pronuciamento with 
hushed awe, There is nothing they despise more 
than the dusky-rusky way of life, which includes 
drinking beer with pickles. Impressed, the Ubangi 
men went each one to his home to explain to his 
wife why she could not have an eight-inch nosepiece,
Next day, the safari gathered for a hunting 
trip to the elephant lair.
is publications. The Carnegie Tartan, the big
gest of this group, serves simply as the school 
newspaper to those who have no more to do 
with it than pick up their copy each week. 
But to the people who produce it, the Tartan 
is a pleasant and not particularly time-consum
ing means through which they may learn the 
skills of news, features, and sports-writing, 
the art of making up a series of articles into 
a newspaper, the problems of news photogra
phy and cartooning, and the technique of sell
ing advertising space to merchants who dont 
want any.
Useful Skills Are Developed
These skills, especially the writing, are usu
ally reflected in their English themes first, later 
in reports and term papers. The ability to re
duce a clumsy mass of facts to a compact, 
logical outline, and then flesh the outline so 
that the reader will be able to digest quickly 
the ideas contained in the whole is a quality 
not lightly regarded by the professors and later
[Continued on page 6]
Peak Enrollment Here; 
No More Trimesters
Peak enrollment in the Car-* 
negie Institute of Technology will 
be reached this year, with 2146 
students studying in the College 
of Engineering and Science alone.
Dr. Webster N. Jones, director 
of the College of Engineering and 
Science, made this statement dur
ing preparations for meeting the 
problems of the record registra
tion.
When this academic year is 
over, said Dr. Jones, I expect 
that total attendance will fall back 
rapidly to the more manageable 
pre-war proportions. There will, 
however, be no more summer 
semesters scheduled in order to 
complete this reduction. As far 
as Im concerned, the rush is 
over.
Altered Program To Be Used
Dr. Jones noted that a slightly 
altered program would be used in 
the mechanical, aeronautical, and 
electrical engineering departments 
in order to eliminate the extraor
dinary crowding which wartime 
advances have made peculiar to 
them. Students of these depart
ments who are now second semes
ter seniors will graduate in Feb
ruary. Those who are now in the 
second semester of their junior 
year will not go to school during 
next summer, but will complete 
their work in February 1949, and 
receive their diplomas at the for
mal graduation ceremony to be 
held in Jtme of that year.
Entrance Exams Now Required
Did you take a college en
trance examination? asked Dr. 
Jones of the Tartan reporter. 
No? Well, you couldnt get into 
this college without one now. In 
controlling our enrollment at its 
primary source, we have raised 
admission requirements to a point 
where some day even our present 
excellent reputation in industry 
will be bettered.
All applicants for the engi
neering college who pass the pre
liminary screening are required 
to take either the pre-engineering 
inventory or the college entrance 
board examinations. We imme
diately reject the lower threequarters of this group. The re
mainder form the basic pool for 
further consideration.
Department Requirements Raised
Pointing out that the require
ments for admission as worked out 
by modern methods and the open
ings available vary from one de
partment to the next, the director 
explained that still higher arbi
trary scores in the board exami
nations are required for admis
sion to an individual department. 
Failure to make these grades pre
vents additional hundreds of stu
dents from reaching the finaL 
screening.
The problem of determining; 
when the national college enroll
ment will begin to recede caused 
Dr. Jones to pause for a moment.
I wouldnt want to answer that 
one exactly, he replied, But I! 
would guess that on an overall 
average, other schools will begim 
to shrink at the beginning of the? 
next academic year. This is; 
earlier than most people have es
timated, but I think that my in
formation on the subject is good 
enough to warrant this predic
tion.
Vets Doing Superior Work
Returning veterans are still 
doing better than average work,' 
was the reply to a question on the 
progress of students attending: 
school under the aegis of the Vet
erans Administration. They have 
made the campus more serious as 
well, but this attitude will prob
ably not last. A 17-year-old boy 
is inevitably less intent on his 
studies than a person of 22 who 
is anxious to begin work and sup
port a family.
Dr. Jones attention was called 
to the original claims of the spon
sors of the G. I. Bill of Rights 
concerning the benefits which 
would ultimately accrue to the 
country as a result of the great 
increase in college-trained citi
zens. He promptly agreed that the 
broadening of the base of higher 
education would prove to be of 
inestimable value.
But would the increased num
ber of college graduates make the 
finding of employment more diffi
cult?
Job Finding Becomes Problem
Job finding should definitely 
become more of a problem for the 
[Continued on page 71
EASIER-QUICKERNEATER.7.when you use
EBERHARD FABERERASERS for
PENCIL, INK OR 
TYPEWRITER

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Scotch n Soda Club 
Prepares 1948 Show
but may be submitted in either 
book or revue form. Entries should 
be mailed by October 31 to the 
Scotch n Soda Club complete to 
the point of immediate produc
tion.
person may be purchased ftonv v 
in Skibo.
Frank Mihelich, president of the 
evening council, has placed George 
Bogovich in charge of the ar
rangements for the dance. Lang 
Thompsons orchestra has been 
signed for the evening.
Evening Council Holds 
First Dance Saturday
Day students are invited to the 
dance being given by the evening 
student council from 9 until 12 
p. m. on Saturday, November 1 
in Thistle hall. Tickets at $1.50 a
Scotch n Soda club has begur* 
preparations for the production of 
the 1948 edition of Carnegie Techs 
annual musical revue. '
Notices of the contest sponsor
ed by the club each year to ob
tain the music and the book for 
their production have been post: 
ed. The deadline for all material i 
is October 31, with the winning : 
entry to be announced soon afterward. Casting and the first re
hearsals will be underway before 
Christmas. ]
The performances of this years 
show are scheduled for the week ; 
of May 10 in the Carnegie Music 1 
hall. This date will fall, as in the 3 
past, during the festive Spring 
Carnival weekend. The number 
of nights which the show will run 
has yet to be determined. Last 
year the hall was filled for three 
performances.
Dave Crantz, chairman and 
business manager, has called the 
first meeting of the executive 
board for this week to consider 
the preliminary actions of the 
club. Members of the executive 
board are Danny Franks, Ruth 
Pivirotto, Jack Drier, Bert Pol
lock, and James McGiffin from 
the Drama school, Dick Hoch 
from the Music department, and 
Peggy Will from Margaret Mor
rison.
Much talent from last springs 
production Rock n Riot has re
turned this fall. Crantz wrote a 
considerable part of the book for
that show, Franks acted, and Miss 
Pivirotto doubled as ballerina and 
ch rus director. Actors George 
4.1 1 and Bill Putch and singer 
Renee Orkin are also in school 
again. Kenny Welch, who com
posed and arranged most of the 
music of Rock n Riot, has been 
reported as collaborating on the 
scores for three separate entries 
in the script contest.
The rules of the contest, which 
limit it to students and alumni of 
Carnegie Tech, require that the 
show be a complete musical, in
cluding sketches, music, and lyr
ics. All material must be original,
Vets Checks 
Delayed Again
Subsistence checks for those 
veterans entering college this fall 
will not arrive until the latter part 
of November. The first check will 
cover allowances for the month 
of October and regular monthly 
checks will follow on the first of 
each month thereafter.
There are two reasons for this 
delay. First, veterans are not en[Continued on page 4]
, FIRSrlIN *
FOOTBALL
ANO \ FIRST IN
dadrntgiTr
SPoctT ! j-'
Post Office Requests 
Early Christmas Mailing
Christmas parcels headed for 
men in the armed forces overseas 
should be sent between October 
15 and November 15. The postal 
service, in an attempt to facilitate 
delivery, has announced that 
packages should not weigh more 
than seventy pounds nor measure 
more than one hundred inches in 
length and girth combined. Also, 
they should be packed to with
stand rough handling in transit.
SPALDINGS POPLA*. J5-V 13 Z&S OFFICIALrOCTBAU.
IN THE NATKW LEAPING GRIDIRON CLASSICS ANO ANNUAL BOWL 
GAMES TKPM COAST TO 
COAST /
If I dont bring home Dentyne Chewing Gum, 
they attack!SPA4&M&
sers 7HMG 
M SPORTS
Boy! Do these kids make my life miserable if 1 
forget the Dentyne Chewing Gum! 1 cant 
blame the little shavers, though. Im as keen as 
they are on that refreshing, long-lasting flavor. 
And Dentyne helps keep their teeth white, too. 
Dentyne GumMade Only by Adams
...AND SPALDING MADE 
THE FIRST FOOTBALL 
EVER PRODUCED 
IN THE UNITED STATES
BERYL DAVIS'S NEW DISC FOR RCA VICTOR
Its a groovy group of notesdone to a turn by one of the 
top of the new crop of singers.
Yes, Beryl Davis knows how to pick a tune... knows how 
to pick a cigarette too. I tried many different brands and 
compared, says Beryl DavisI found Camels suit me best.
Thats how millions learned from experience that there 
are big differences in cigarette quality. Try Camels in your 
T-Zone (Taste and Throat). Let your own experience 
tell you why more people are smoking Camels 
than ever before!
THE 
CIGARETTE 
FOR ME IS
Camel

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947
Subsistence[Continued from page 3] 
titled to subsistence until a period 
of 30 days of actual training has 
elapsed, and secondly, all checks 
are for the previous months al
lowances and are mailed on the 
first of each month.
Delays in prompt certification 
of enrollment are due to lack of 
sufficient trained personnel to 
handle the 1,325,000 claims. The 
VA has an order to give priority 
to processing enrollment claims so 
that payments will be made as 
soon as possible.
Seward
[Continued from page 1] 
quainted with its affairs to make 
a statement on the pending dis
solution of the organization.
The original motion was intro
duced on May 15 at the first meet
ing of the new student council by 
A. Roberts Dismukes. Mr. Dismukes graduated with honors in 
mechanical engineering at the re
cent Commencement.
Rush On Again
The rush is on at the bookstore 
again. To handle the early semes
ter rush the book store in the 
basement of Administration hall 
will be open from 8:30 to 5:00 on 
week days, from 8:30 to 12:00 on 
Saturdays, and later if necessary.
The staff, undermanned and 
working in crowded quarters, asks 
that everyone be patient, as ev
erything possible is being done 
to speed the distribution of books 
and supplies. Freshmen engi
neers will be taken care of at 
the temporary counter opposite 
the post office. P & D and architec
ture freshmen will receive their 
supplies in FA 102.
In order to eliminate congestion 
in the future the post office will 
soon be relocated and its present 
space will be taken over by the 
book store.
6 4Dream Girl" Opens
Dream Girl by Elmer Rice opens 
at the Playhouse on Friday, Oc
tober 10 for a threeweeks en
gagement. Former .Broadway ac
tress Josephine Sterba will be 
making her Pittsburgh debut in 
the title role. Also included in the 
cast is Carnegies own Ruth Guberman.
White Book Gives 
Freshman Rules
The White Book, official cam
pus publication giving the regula
tions for the guidance of under
graduate students, can be obtain
ed from the Dean of Men or the 
Registrar any time after the first 
day of classes.
A knowledge of the contents of 
this pamphlet is advisable for all 
students. Typical of the subjects 
covered in the White Book are 
the marking system, rules for 
conduct, benefits for students, and 
regulations applicable to fraterni
ties, sororities and honor soci
eties. There are, o^f course many 
other useful pieces of informa
tion.
The regular procedure of dis
tributing the White Book at reg
istration could not be followed 
this year due to publication de
lays.
The official C. I. T. Handbook, 
given to all freshmen at registra
tion, may also be obtained from 
the office of the Dean of Men by 
upperclassmen desiring a copy.
WCIT Resumes Broadcasting Activities 
} Plans Laid for Second Year of Operation
Radio station WCIT operating
on a frequency of 900 KC resumWCIT: Welch, Bergman, Crantz, Franks
ed broadcasting activities at 7 
p. m. October 6 from the first 
floor of the Fine Arts building, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The local representative of the 
collegiate broadcasting system 
ended its first year this summer. 
The summer schedule was mostly 
recorded music, but beginning 
October 13 the station will pre
sent a wide variety of programs 
encompassing many of the stu
dent interests.
WCIT will be on the air Mon
day through Friday from 7 a. m. 
to 10 p. m., with time out while 
the engineers attend classes from 
9:30 to 4:45 and eat dinner from 
5:45 to 7:00. The WCIT schedules 
will appear in the Tartan begin
ning next week.
One of the new features will be 
a nightly five-minute news sum
mary which will be telegraphed 
directly from the newsroom of the 
New York Times.
The WCIT trio  sultry song
stress Gloria Bergman, keyboard 
genius Kenny Welch, and comed
ian Dave Crantz  will return 
with their program Demand Per
formance which was such a hit 
during the summer. In addition, 
the Drama department will pre
sent fifteen minute skits twice a 
week.
This is Eph Abramsons second 
year as station manager. Other 
members of the staff are Ivan
Faigen, business manager; Bob 
Codington, chief announcer; and 
Len Kroko and Jay Levinthal, 
chief engineers.
Positions are open for addition
al announcers, engineers, and 
those interested in the business 
staff.
Room Shortage
[Continued from page 1 \ 
vigorous advertising campaign 
publicizing the need of more 
rooms for college students, prac
tically all of the commuters are 
within a half hours ride of Tech 
and most are within walking dis
tance.
No such sun is shining over the 
apartment-seeking couples. A de
sirable and reasonably close apart
ment is not only difficult, but 
practically impossible to find, and 
the situation will probably remain 
just as gloomy for at least an
other year.
TRY A PACK ... TODAY
yw 
H"1*1
,krt WT VMIH4.1 MT*-JA 10DOH IMN 
ifwufH 
00* !** ***
HMD T00A-1* mi  
rKITERS
17 North Fairfax,
PHILIP MORRIS offers the smoker an extra 
benefit found in no other cigarette. For hefofc 
mTrrfs is the ONE, the ONLY cigarette recog
nized by leading nose and throat specialists as 
definitely less irritating.
Remember: Less irritation means more 
smoking enjoyment for you.
Yes! If every smoker knew what Philip 
mTrrfs smokers know, theyd all change to 
PHILIP MORRIS.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tech Sports Scope
By Pete Cregut
The summer lias gone, tne fan is here and with it another foot
ball season is about to begin. As those of you who were here last 
year are painfully aware, and as the freshmen have been informed 
by the old-timers, the 1946 season could hardly be termed a suc
cess. But this season gives all indications of showing a good deal of 
improvement.
From the time that the squad reported to the coaches over a 
week ago it was evident that this year was to be no repetition of 
our unfortunate last season. Head Coach Bill Donahoe told the men 
before their departure last spring that because they were going to 
get off to a late start, he expected them to be in good physical 
condition when they reported so
that the squad could get down to 
serious work right away.
And he demonstrated that he 
meant what he said by having the 
boys in pads and doing contact 
work the first day out. It would 
be an exaggeration to say that 
everyone was in tip-top shape 
right from the start, but while the 
daily work-outs left many aching 
muscles, a week has brought the 
players, with a few exceptions, 
close to game condition.
One of the most outstanding 
improvements of this years squad 
had been the spirit which the boys 
are showing. From Johnny Maxton leading calesthenics down to 
the freshman who was cut from 
the squad on the second day of 
practice, there has been a unity 
of purpose which defies the repe
tition of last years fiasco. This, in 
contrast to last year, when to the 
bottom of the schedule of the 
teams Saturday activities up 
through the 2 oclock kick-off was 
added in pencil, 2:01Opponents 
first touchdown.
Another marked improvement 
has been in the quality of the 
new players who have enrolled at 
Tech. Coach Donahoe has spent a 
busy summer talking to likely 
looking high school graduates. 
After inducing them to come 
to Carnegie, he lead them through 
the pitfalls of the entrance ex
aminations. Barring a harvest of 
scholastic fatalities this team, 
which is certainly destined for im
provement this year, may develop 
into something good before too 
long.
The size of the team also pre
sents a marke i difference from 
the squad of last year. The play
ers took a hell of a beating in 
the past because they were out
weighed, man for man, in prac
tically every game on the sched
ule. This year the line will average 
close to 200 pounds and there are 
expectations that there will be 
days when the Skibos will have a 
weight advantage over their op
ponents. This could make a dif
ference.
As is apparent from what has 
been said so far, 1947 is going 
to be a year of comparison with 
1946. Even before the opening 
kick-off many improvements are 
evident in the team. But the ques
tion now arises, can the same be 
said for the school spirit? A good 
old-fashioned pep rally has long 
been absent from the Tech cam
pus. An organized cheering sec
tion has become as much at* mem
ory as old Andy himself. School 
spirit itself is practically non 
existent.
We must realize that because 
of the administration's athletic 
policy the boys out on the field 
risking a broken arm or leg have 
absolutely nothing to gain ex
cept a little glory. And that glory 
is not going to come from Pitts
burgh residents who stay away 
frrm Forbes Field in multitudes 
on Sc.*urdays that Tech plays. The 
glory has to come from the stu
dents. And that, my friend, 
means you!
It all adds up to the fact that 
the students themselves can go a 
long way toward making or 
breaking this ball club. The team 
has the ability, and right now they 
have the spirit. The ability is going 
to remain all season, but both the 
ability and the spirit are going to 
be necessary to make this season 
a success in even a modest sense 
of the word. It is up to you to see 
that the spirit stays on a par with 
the j*WUty.
Returning Players 
Strengthen Soccer
Although it may be too early 
for accurate predictions, it seems 
likely that the Tartans will again 
field a strong soccer team.
Unofficial practice sessions were 
held in the B o w 1 for a 
period of five weeks during the 
summer semester to enable the 
booters to get in condition for the 
season opener at Frostburg, Md., 
on October 18.
None of the team positions have 
been officially set; however, last 
years veterans will probably have 
the inside track. Some of the re
turning booters from the 1946 
team are goalie Marty Dorf, full
back Ed McGhee, halfbacks Moraes, Williams, and Abraham, and
Intramural 
Roundup
The summer intramurals con
sisted of three closely contested 
softball leagues fighting for the 
school championship and a fourth 
vieing for fraternity supremacy. 
Sigma Nu was the winner in both 
contests.
Eighteen teams competed for the 
school honors with Delta Upsilon, 
Beta Sigma Rho and Sigma Nu 
the winners in their three respec
tive leagues.
In the Federal League the DUs 
and Citcom Clan went right down 
to the final game neck and neck. 
In the decisive game Citcom was 
leading by two runs in the sev
enth inning with two out when 
the DUs suddenly came to life. 
Dripchak and McKee beat out 
infield hits, Hanover doubled to tie 
the score and Sellke, who had been 
in a slump all season, drilled a 
triple to left-center to drive in 
Hanover and the winning run.
The Beta Sigs had things pretty 
much their own way in the Amer[Continued on page 6]
linemen Kroko and Hart.
Coach Pat OConnor scheduled 
the initial practice session for 
Monday, October 6, strongly urg 
ing incoming freshmen to come 
out for the team.
First Drills Display 
Spirit On Gridiron
Jerry Helland Stands Out As Triple Threat; 
Team Loaded With Men From Last Year
For a full week now the Tartan^-
gridders have been devoting all 
of their tihie to an accelerated 
program of conditioning, scrim
maging, and blackboard drill a* 
the Tartan Bowl. The task has 
been a grueling one, but the spirit 
and the prospects for the coming 
season are good.
Coach Donahoe has been put
ting his men through about eight 
hours of drill a day. And now that 
the first week of practice is fin
ished we can take a look at what, 
and who, will represent the Plaid 
on.these coming Saturday after
noons.
The most impressive man on the 
squad so far has been little Jerry 
Helland, a triple-threat back 
from Mt. Lebanon, who has been 
running at quarterback. Helland 
will be involved in the fight for 
the quarterback post, which will 
be the most hotly contested posi 
tion. He will be opposed by Larry 
Manley, quarterback last year and 
an excellent field leader. They 
both are fair passers, with Maley 
having an edge in weight and ex
perience, while Helland is the bet
ter runner and gicker. Joe Wilson
another experienced man from 
last years squad, completes the 
trio of quarterbacks.
Teaming with these men are 
many other good backs. Sam 
Highberger, a mainstay in the 
backfield all last season, is back 
again, but he is receiving plenty 
ofcompetition for the starting 
fullback post from Premo Pappafava.
The coaching staff has elected to 
move big Norm Keats into right 
halfback from the tackle position. 
His main weakness in this posi
tion is a lack of speed which 
will not permit him to lead the 
faster ball carriers. Under the new 
system, the right halfback shifts 
into the blocking-back spot.
Right behind Keats are DiGiovanni and Wes Kenny. Both 
men are lighter than the hulking 
halfback but both are faster. Hugh 
Logsdon, a shifty veteran who 
has improved considerably on his 
performance of last year, has dom
inated' the play at left halfback so 
far. However, he is receiving stiff 
competition from Fran Janosky 
and Bill Sommers.
The Cadets are flying again!
The U. S. Air Force now offers you the chance of a 
lifetime to start your career in aviation.
If you want to learn to fly, you have one of the 
finest opportunities ever offered in peacetime. Avia
tion Cadet pilot training has been reopened to quali
fied applicants presently serving enlistments in the 
Army, and to civilian young men who can meet the 
same high standards.
In order to be eligible, each applicant must be: a 
single male citizen, between 20 and 26V2 years old, 
of excellent character and physically fit. He must 
have completed at least one half the credits leading to 
a degree from an accredited college or university, or 
be able to pass a mental examination given by the 
USAF. He must now be living within the conti
nental limits of the United States.
Upon successful completion of the training course, 
Cadets will be rated as pilots, commissioned Second 
Lieutenants, and assigned to flying duty.
Reactivation of Aviation Cadet pilot training is 
only one of the several choices open to outstanding 
men who want*increased responsibility and advance
ment in the field of aviation. It is now possible for 
qualified men to apply for attendance at USAF, 
Officer Candidate School  and thus be able to equip 
themselves for such important specialties as engi
neering, armament, administration and supply.
You have a real chance to make progress and build 
a sound career for yourself in today's U. S. Air Force. 
Talk it over with the Recruiting Officer today at 
any U. S. Army and Air Force Recruiting Station.
U. S. ARMY AND AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947
editorial
Continued from page 2] 
oe superintendents who weekly 
ead scores of these papers.
~ The Carnegie Technical is the 
'udent engineering and science 
ublication. Its reputation is quite 
-qual to that of the school whose 
^udents publish it, and it ranks 
its the leading magazine of its kind 
in the nation. A complimentary 
subscription is sent to the Library 
of Congress at their request. The 
Technical offers perhaps the best 
training given at this school in 
fine technical writing and criti
cism, and work on its staff will 
be amply repaid both in school, 
when seminar papers and theses 
are to be written, and in profess
ional life,' when a paper is to be 
prepared for your societys techni
cal publication.
The Scottie Has The Lighter Side
The lighter side of our 
serious campus is displayed 
monthly by the Scottie, the cam
pus humor magazine. The clean
shaven primness of the Thistles 
many photographs forms the tra
ditional year book, a record of the 
years activities.
A technical school whose theme 
is hard work and whose recrea
tion is more of the same is not 
normally considered fertile ground 
for a literary magazine. But last 
year the Carnegie Technical estab
lished Cano, an almost pocketsized little magazine which is 
showing good promise as a taste
ful setting for the short stories, 
poems, and essays which literarily 
inclined students work over in 
their spare time.
Publications are of course just 
one type of extra-curricular activ
ity. In addition to athletics, there 
is everything from a radio station 
and a sound-motion picture or
ganization to religious discussion 
clubs. Each has its specialized be
nefits, but all have several char
acteristics in common. And these 
; are the most important.\ Activities Have Much To Teach 
Working as a member of an aci tivities team teaches cooperation 
with others under the least ex
acting circumstances. It also teach
es working under the direction of 
others (unless you already have 
had this training under somewhat 
different circumstances). After 
such an apprenticeship many jun
iors and seniors achieve executive 
positions in their organizations 
and learn something of administra
Intramural
[Continued from page 5] 
ican league as they won 12 games, 
losing only 2. The Sigma Nus al
so dominated the National League 
as they won 14 straight games 
without a defeat. The runner-up 
in this league was the Dorm 
Combine, which lost only 2 games, 
both to the Sigma Nu s by scores 
of 10-0 and 6-3.
In the first game of the play
off, the Sigma Nus brought their 
good bats, and some timely hitting 
coupled with sloppy D.U. field
ing combined to perpetrate a 16-4 
rout.
The second game of the play
offs was much more interesting 
as the Beta Sigs and the Sigma 
Nus tangled in a close contest. 
The game was marked by excel
lent pitching on the part of Ralph 
Reich for the Sigs and Red Freidman for the Beta Sigs. Freidman 
was also the big offensive gun for 
his team as he got on base three 
times and scored twice. Cregut 
drove in the first run for the Sigs 
by scoring Pappafava from third 
on a long fly. The second was 
scored when Tikey drove in Sloneker from second with a single.
The game went into the seventh 
inning tied at 6-6 when Culbertson 
singled, stole second, and rode in 
on a chop double to right field by 
Reich, to win his own ball game, 
and the school championship.
The twilight league was com
posed of 6 fraternities playing for 
the fraternity championship. This 
league was also dominated by the 
Nus as they won nine 
it games before being finally 
by the Delts. Their closcompetitors were the same 
with a record of 7 wins and
tion and of directing their fellows 
in a manner which will be effec
tive and yet will not offend. None 
of these important abilities are as 
effectively taught in the classroom
as they are in such activities. 
They must be learned on your 
own time, and in a place where 
errors are not fatal to a new ca
reer.
And perhaps as a parenthetical 
note of minor interest, there are 
also contacts to be made from 
which the benefits derived are 
not particularly intellectual, but
which are at the least convenient 
when your schedule calls for 
Dancing I, 9:30-12:30, Gym arid 
your mood demands Some ad= 
vanced courses on related topies<
M. ALWAYS MILDER 
B BETTER TASTING 
J COOLER SMOKING
Copyright 19*7, MT**-JJ * Mnu A..0 .D

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Dr. Jones
[Continued from page 2] 
recent graduate as soon as the 
edge has been worn off the pre
sent personnel shortages in indus
try. This will hold especially true 
in engineering. But you really 
cant say much about the relative 
difficulty which an individual man 
will encounter in getting himself 
well placed. Everything depends 
on the person himself. Graduating 
from Carnegie Tech does not guar
antee a successful career in en
gineering. Similarly, someone 
who has received his training at 
a school of lesser reputation, but 
who has the necessary intelligence 
and ambition, can rise to the top 
of his field, leaving behind the 
Carnegie man who failed to apply 
himself. Its the individual who 
counts. The school is important 
and it gives you the best that it 
can, but it is still up to the indi
vidual.
The question of state and fed
eral subsidies for colleges and 
students now being squeezed by 
rising costs and smaller incomes 
elicited only an indirect reply. 
Thats a highly controversial is
sue right now, and Im not imme
diately concerned with it.
Dr. Jones did say, however, that 
he disapproves of the large num
ber of unrestricted gifts now be
ing made by government agen
cies. People must have faith in 
themselves and faith in their
Football Squad
[Continued from page 5] 
snapper-back. The guard positions 
should also be filled by competent 
men, with Maxton and Shapiro 
being experienced holdovers and 
freshman Floyd Wisemen look
ing good in practice.
The tackle slots seem to be the 
strongest this year with an im
pressive array of 200 pounders, 
most of whom played last year. 
Jerry Brute Meyers at 210 
pounds, is the most promising. 
Along with him are DeMuesy 
(200), Guttendorf (230), Trautman (210), Augustine (230) and 
Hoffman (210). There are now 
more 200 pounders out for the 
one position than were on the 
entire squad last year.
country if they are to prosper. 
And they must back up this faith 
with hard work.
Why not consider a proposi
tion like this, he asked. Sup
pose each physically able high 
school graduate were to exchange 
a period of military training for 
government assistance during his 
college education. In that way, 
the young men would be earning 
their schooling, would incidental
ly make better use of it, and the 
nations military potential would 
be maintained at a constant level.
Interhonorary
[Continued from page 1] 
ing fund. A supplementary pro
posal was made to the effect that 
some of this money might be 
channeled into the Steffen Fund if 
permission could be obtained for 
such action. George Marshall, 
Student Council president, ap
pointed a committee with Andy 
Sterret as Chairman and Art Nay
lor and Jack Seward as members 
which would investigate these 
proposals and prepare for presen
tation to council regulations for 
the disposal of the disputed funds.
Committee Chairmen Appointed
Major committee chairmen for 
the coming year, appointed by 
president Marshall at the first 
summer meeting, are Art Naylor, 
budget; Charles Duffett, publica
tions; Robert Shapiro, elections; 
Norman Larsen, social; Bruce 
Murray, Freshman regulations 
and orientation; Jean Knee, points 
and keys; Thomas Popielski, per
manent decorations; Negley Reed, 
special committee, and Theodore 
Ulrich, Mens Points.
The bigger social events of the 
coming year were scheduled by 
the Social Committee. The Varsity 
C dance, Junior Prom, Scabbard 
and Blade, and the Homecoming 
dance will be held the first semes
ter, and Spring Carnival, Wom
ens Guild dance, and the Soph
Man with a system
Simply pick up your telephone and you 
can route your voice through any one of 
thousands of central officessome with dial 
mechanisms so complex they stagger the 
imagination, yet so efficient they seem to 
work like magicothers staffed by compe
tent, courteous operators whose standards 
of work have long been a fine tradition.
You command, in effect, millions of miles 
of telephone wire and cable.
You can direct your call one of some 
110,000,000 that will be made today  to
any one of some 53,000,000 telephones 
here and abroad.
The operation of this vast system is big 
business. It is a complex, many-sided busi
ness in which thousands of college trained 
men are working in their chosen fields 
development or research, engineering 
planning, accounting or statistics, public 
contacts, supervision of operations or other 
phases of management. These men have 
found highly interesting and rewarding
careers.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Hop will take place during the 
second half of the year.
In addition to making these 
more important decisions, the 
Council also found time to award 
Daniel Franks an overdue gold 
key for his work on the Thistle,
agreed to pay for the Soph Hop
losses, accepted the Mens Glee 
Club constitution, and discovered 
that Ernest Snoyer should be 
added to the list of those elected 
to Student Council for the coming 
year.
"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes. . .
is a whimsical statement 
unsupported by the evidence
But. . .
"College Men Prefer Arrows. * .
is a true tradition 
based on solid facts*
?More than 3 out of 4 conege men prefer Arrow sfeirts 
survey by National College Research Bureau.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIESm $ .............  j, i,jL . ,     ................. , , ,, Jfri
UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS
THESE POPULAR DOUBLE SOLE
Vooq-Moc* "
Rugged-yet-flexible full bodied 
double soles . . . sturdy full 
grained antiqued leathers 
... all this outstanding 
quality at a fair price!
The ETON 
Style 8612
The CRUISER 
Style 6645
W. L. DOUGLAS fSHOE CO.,BROCKTON IS, MASS.
PITTSBURGH
205 FIFTH AVENUE
417-10 East Ohio St, N. S. 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) 
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TRTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1947
TEXTBOOKS
for Every Need
We Have . . .
A GOOD STOCK OFUSED BOOKS#
Used Books Cost Less** 
They Serve As Well"
"Ours is a Trade That 
Service Made."
Let Us Serve You
STUDENT 
BOOK EXCHANCE
3811 Fifth Avenue
(Past Corner Boquet & Fifth)
THE PLACE FOR
Slide Rules "Tartan" Pencils
Drafting Sets Fraternity Decals
Zipper Cases College Outlines
College Seal Stationery Fountain Pens 
School Supplies Leather Notebooks
