THIS WEEK
"ON OUK MARK 
GET SET, GO! 
EXAMS NEXT WEEK
VOL. XVII. NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1923
GRAND MARCH 
BEGINS 9:30 AT 
JUNIOR PROM
CONFESSIONS OF A SINNING 
SCHOLARLAST LAMENT
OF A PLEASURE SEEKER
Final Tickets Will be Sold 
in Central Building During 
Week of Exams. Only Few 
Preliminary Tickets Left
SUPPER AT MIDNIGHT
O Dreary Thought! The year is 
half overexams are close at hand! 
What am I going to do? For the past 
four months Ive not burned the mid
night oil as I shouldinstead 
learned many a new dancing step, and | 
all the best movies Ive seen, and the 
I Follies0 Boy! Werent they 
I But now, methinks, m3r actions along 
such lines must cease, for I assure | 
you I dont want to take a trip home j 
upon the facultys invitation. I guess | 
I must change my attitude towards 
the books and keep them close by all 
of the timemi gosh, I wonder whats 
in 'em!
NEW TECHNICAL 
r JOURNAL ISSUE 
S OUT THURSDAY
RESEARCH GRANTS ARE
MADE BY THE INSTITUTE
COMMITTEE, AT MEETING
Twenty preliminary tickets for the 
.Junior Prom were still unsold on Sat
urday. Probably the entire student 
quota will have been purchased by 
the time this information reaches the 
student body. The committee is in
deed gratified with the short time in 
-winch the pasteboards were distrib
uted.
The final tickets for the Junior 
Prom will be placed on sale in the 
Central Building the Monday of ex
amination week. A member of the 
committee will be there every day ex
cept Friday from 11:30 to 1:30. Op 
Friday, the day of the Prom, the sale 
will start at ll:-30 and close at 4:30.
The price of the final ticket is five 
dollars and each purchaser must pre
sent a preliminary ticket. No final 
tickets will be sold without the first 
ticket.
All students are requested to pur
chase their final ticket during exam
ination week. By handling this mat
ter at school, a great deal of time and 
confusion will be averted on the night 
of the Prom.
The Nelson Maples Orchestra will 
begin to play at 9:00 p. m. The Grand 
March will start at 9:30. The pro
grams and favors will be distributed 
immediately after the Grand March.
The program calls for twelve 
dances. Dancing will be interrupted 
at midnight when supper will be 
served. After supper dancing will 
again be in order and will continue 
until 2:00 a. m.
Russian Engineer at 
Miners-Mets Smoker
Mr. Karpov Reviews Russian 
Economic Conditions
It is the broad minded American 
engineer who is going to develop the 
immense resources of Russia, as soon 
as a stable government is set up and 
which will be within the next ten 
years/ so stated Mr. Karpov at the 
Miners and Mets smoker on Tuesday 
night, January 16. Mr. Karpov was 
an engineer in Russia until the Bol
shevik got into possession, then he 
was driven to this country and has 
settled here in Pittsburgh, being em
ployed as an electrical engineer by 
the West Penn Power Company.
During his speech he hurriedly re
viewed the resources of Russia in a 
mineral way, and the present eco
nomic condition brought on by the po
litical revolution and" the rise in pow
er of the Bolsheviks.
His wife, Madame Karpov, is a 
member of the Carnegie faculty and 
she teaches dancing in the Arts di
vision.
President Jeffers presided at this 
meeting, and it has been planned to 
have another smoker in the near fu
ture. The second big feature of the 
evening was the home-made doughsiuts, which were made by one of the 
.Junior Mets mother, and oh, you guys 
that werent there missed something.
Household Economics Club 
Plans Party For Plebes
The Household Economics Club of 
the Margaret Morrison College are 
planning a party to be held in the 
Little Practice House in the latter 
part of February, to which all Fresh
man girls who are planning to enter 
the Household Economics course will 
be invited.
Plans for this party formed an im
portant part of the discussion which 
was carried on at the last meeting of 
the club Fridaiy, in Room 101, M. M. 
About thirty members of the club 
were present at the. meeting. It was 
announced that the dance which was 
to be held February 17, had been post
poned indefinitely because the Union 
could not be secured for the event. 
Other proposed methods of raising 
money were discussed, but no action 
was taken. Miss Glendon of the fac
ulty attended the meeting.
Officers of the club this year are: 
President, Ruth Snyder; vice presi
dent, Anne Weber; secretary-treasurer, Grace Adams, and chairman of 
social committee, Peg Coombs.
NIGHT ART STUDENTS NAME
COMMITTEES FOR ARTS BALL
The Arts Night Students have ap
pointed the following committees for 
the ball:
SocialSidney K| Eastwood, Rosa
mond F. Bruce, Mary McDonald.
General  Hazel Andrews, Fredrick 
Fischer. Clarence Wood.
CostumeKathleen McGraw.
Any information on the ball can be 
secured through this committee.
COUNCIL SENDS MEN 
TO STUDENT MEET
C.F. Bowers and T. N. Griggs 
to Represent Carnegie at 
Conference
The Senior Fence is soon to be a 
reality. Chairman Sprinkle of the 
Senior Fence Committee reported to 
the Student Council at its last meet
ing that the plans of the fence had 
been approved by Mr. Orbin and Mr. 
Porter. The location finally decided 
upon by the committee and the school 
authorities is along the walk between 
the cut and the library. The material 
will be purchased by the committee 
at once and the erection of the fence 
pushed as rapidly as possible.
C. F. Bowers will represent the Stu
dent Council at the annual meeting 
of the Midwestern Student confer
ence to be held at Northwestern Uni
versity at Evanston, Illinois, March 
15, 16 and 17. T. N. Griggs of the 
Student Activities Board will be the 
other Carnegie representative. The 
conference is made up^of representa
tives of the governing bodies of the 
different colleges and universities of 
the middle west. Carnegie Tech is an 
associate member of the conference.
The kilts committee reported that 
to date a little over seveteen hundred 
dollars had been raised, fifteen hun
dred by the student body and the re
mainder by the alumni. Plans were 
made whereby some thirty Seniors 
will be used to make a concerted 
drive on the alumni of the Pittsburgh 
district in an effort to increase the 
alumni contributions.
The social committee reported that 
the date of the home concert by the 
Musical Clubs had been changed from 
March 23 to March 16, because the 
former date marks the beginning of 
the Easter vacation and so would 
work against a large attendance.
Plan Inspection Trips
For Week After Exams
Inspection trips are being planned 
for many of the classes during the 
first week of next semester although 
but few actual dates have been set.
The Juniors and Seniors of the 
Building Construction section will 
take three trips during the week. On 
Monday, February 5, it is planned to 
go to the Concrete Production Com
pany, manufacturers of concrete pipe. 
They will also go to the American 
Bridge Company plant and the Home
stead Steel Works. No dates have 
been set for the last two because of 
the precariousness of weather condi
tions. The Freshmen in this section 
will have drawing classes all week.
Freshmen of the Machinery Produc
tion section will have regular sched
uled classes. The schedule for the 
upper classes has not been decided as 
yet. It is planned to have inspection 
trips at intervals throughout the sec
ond semester.
Committees For Womens 
Senior Ball Appointed
The following committees for the 
Senior ball were announced last week 
following a meeting of the Senior 
class of Margaret Morrison:
Floor Committee: Ruth Parton,
chairman, and Grace Patterson.
Music: Lillian Coleman, chairman; 
Agnes Allison and Josephine Reed.
Food: Betty Wright, chairman;
Katherine Blackford and Katherine 
Dunn.
Decorations: Helen Schade, chair
man; Eleanor Craver and Eunny Cawthon.
Favors: Helen McConkey chair
man; Anne Weber and Gertrude 
Lyons.
Program: Anne Stewart, chair
man; Eleanor Shomberg and Betty 
Pratt.
The ball is to be in the form of a 
dinner-dance at the University Club. 
Cabaret stunts and music by the Col
legiate Six will be a feature of tho 
evening.
TAU GAMMA PHI GOES NATIONAL
Tau Gamma Phi was by unanimous 
consent of the Arch Chapter of Delta 
Tau Delta granted a charter. This 
action followed the approval of the 
petition of the local fraternity at the 
eastern division convention of the na
tional fraternity held in New York 
last Friday and Saturday. After the 
installation, which will be held before 
the end of the school year, Tau Gam
ma Phi will be known as Delta Beta 
chapter of Delta Tau Delta.
At the last nieeting of tho Institute 
committee on "research tho following 
grants were made:
Professor A. H. Blaisdell, assistant 
professor in Mechanical Engineering, 
for the purpose of compilation of 
j available data, and development of a 
munic analysis of gases unon Oxidized Heavv Fuel1 ller high PresSur!s-on uxiuizeu rueavy ruei. professors Macintosh and Simmons
Oils. Dr. Nathanson Disot tho College of EngineeringJo nmko 
an investigation of the effects of teraCUSSeS Isotopes and Atom per brittleness and shape of thread 
under fatigue' conditions.Structure
>- great. Dr. James Contributes Article  tuermodyi
NEW ISSUE ENLARGED
The largest issue of the Carnegie 
Technical Journal ever published will 
appear on the campus Thursday and 
promises to fairly rival the average 
commercial technical publication now 
on the market.
The articles of this issue ai'te unus
ually good and of exceptional interest. 
They are all written by authorities 
and most of the material has never 
before appeared in print.
Dr. Nathanson, of the Physics De
partment, discusses isotopes of which 
little is known as yet, but which may 
clear up a great deal concerning the 
structure of the atom.
Dr. James describes his work with 
oxidized heavy fuel oils and their ap
plication to the internal combustion 
engine as a gasoline substitute which 
has attracted considerable attention 
throughout the country.
The use of. patents is thoiouglily 
discussed by E. A. Lawrence, patent 
attorney, who, as a member of the 
Pittsburgh bar, has devoted his at
tention to this field.
Prof. Trinks thoroughly reviews 
technical books in the interesting 
manner which characterizes all his 
work.
The Technical Journal is now being 
so enthusiastically supported that all 
the necessary material for the next 
issue is already on hand. May the 
readers do as well! .
PRIZES FOR ESSAYS 
ON ANDREW CARNEGIE
Through the interest and gener
osity; of Margaret Barclay Wilson, 
four prizes are to be awarded an
nually oi a total value of $100 for 
the best four essays written by stu
dents of this Institution on some 
phase of the life and work of An
drew Carnegie. Miss Wilson is 
Professor of Physiology and Hygiene 
at (Hunter College, New York, is au
thor of A Carnegie Anthology, and 
has for many years been an intimate 
friend of the Caruegie family.
The conditions governing the com
petition are as follows:
Rules: The essay shall contain
not less than 2,500 and not more 
than 5,000 words. It must be signed 
by a pseudonym, and attached to it 
must be a sealod envelope with the 
pseudonym signature on the fage 
and within on a slip of paper both 
pseudonym and contestant's signa
ture. The essays must be delivered 
at the Office of tho Director of the 
Division of General Studios on or 
before noon of April 15, of each year. 
The essay must be typewritten on 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Sophomores to Entertain 
At Next Science Assembly
Mr. Gallego and Mr. Slieno were the. 
big attraction at the Science Assem
bly on last Wednesday. These two 
Italians were Jim Campbell and A1 
Monetti and they represented the Ju
nior class. This assembly was con
ducted by the Juniors, as it was the 
Seniors who made up the program for 
the last one.
The next Science Assembly will be 
conducted by' the Sophomores and 
they will have to make up a good 
stunt to beat the Juniors. At this 
meeting the Sophomores brought up 
Plebe Dixon and they intended to give 
him a haircut, but the vigilance com 
mittee recommended leniency and so 
his nose was painted and he is to car
ry a sign on his back for the following 
week. Everyone was anxious to see 
a haircut as no Plebe has received 
one this year. Evidently this must be 
a year in which the Plebes are very 
ruly and dont show much opposition 
to the Sophs. Get started, Sopho
mores, and show us some real excite
ment and a good program at the next 
assembly.
GIRLS PROM HELD 
AT HOTEL SCHENLEY
Junior Girls Dance Attract
ively Staged; Giles' Or
chestra Plays
Two hundred and fifty couples filled 
the iScheuley Hotel ball room last Fri
day night at the annual girls Junior 
Prom. The entire room whs deco
rated with rubber balloons while Art 
Giles' Orchestra provided the music.
Dancing prevailed until midnight 
when a dinner was served with many 
novel features. Ice cream in the va
rious shapes of cucumbers, radishes, 
etc., proved to be an interesting part 
of the menu. Favors 'in the form of 
bill-folds for the men and bar pins 
for the ladies were all inscribed with 
tlie Carnegie seal in an attractive 
manner. After the dinner dancing 
was. resumed until 2 a. m.
The committee handling the affair 
was composed of Blair Jessop, chair
man; Helen Johnson and Thelma 
Letlierman, decorations and pro
grams; Eleanor Wilt and Frances McClymonds, refreshments; Grace 
Sheriff, favors; and Eleanor Rlefmyer, music. The patronessos woro: 
Mrs. Raymond E. Bossange, Mrs. A. 
W. Tarbell, Miss Mary Brown, Miss 
Mary Breed, )Mrs. John L. Porter,.Mrs, 
E. M. Vernorcken, Mrs. W. Iv. Markoll, Mrs. C. M. Smith, Mrs. J. L. Jossop. Miss Emilio -Bowman, class ad
visor, was a guest of the class.
CONDITION OF GRAD. MGR. 
FRANK HAAREN IMPROVES
Frank Haaren, Graduate Manager 
of Athletics, who has been seriously 
ill for several weeks is reported as 
being convalescent.' For tho past few 
days he has been resting quietly, and 
each day has shown a slight improve
ment. Bijt It Is not expoctod that ho 
will return to his duties for quito a 
while, as Dr. Marks fools a long con
finement will be necessary for an ab
solute recovery.
Mr. Haaren suffered from a nervous 
breakdown and heart trouble, mainly 
from the overwork and mental strain 
attached to his job.
During his absence tho athlotic of
fice lias been run by A1 Irwin, and 
Miss Klea Brainerd, aided now and 
then by Buddy Overend, prosidont of 
the Athletic Council.. It was very un
fortunatethat Bob Waddell tendered 
his resignation at just about the same 
time Mr. Haaren was taken ill, which 
further complicated matters.
It is hoped that Mr. Haaren has a 
speedy recovery, and will soon be 
back on the job.
CHEMICAL DEPT. HEARS 
MR. POSTE ON ENAMELS
Herbert Reichs Death
Caused By Pneumonia
A former Carnegie graduate, Mr. 
Poste, of the Elyria Enameled Pro
ducts Company, described the use and 
manufacture of commercial enameled 
and glass line apparatus to the chem
icals last Thursday afternoon, during 
his stop here, preparatory to his lec
ture at the meeting of the local chaptre of the American Chemical So
ciety.
I-Ie illustrated his lecture with 
many lanternslides showing the man
ufacture and use of enameled appa
ratus in the dairy; canning and chem
ical industries; and explained the ad
vantages of such apparatus over the 
customary tin  lined copper utensils 
used in the preparation and. transpor
tation of food products.
Mr. Poste graduated from our De
partment of Chemistry in 1910 and 
for two years held the position of in
structor here. He then accepted the 
position of chemist with the Elyria 
Enameled Products Company and has 
since raised himself to the position of 
director of all the chemical processes 
involved.
W. S. MURRAY 
TO SPEAK ON 
SUPER-POWER
This Lecture to be Held in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, and 
of Special Importance to 
Engineers of This District
DR. BAKER TO ADDRESS
CLANS ALONG ROUTE OF
PLANNED EASTERN TRIP
FREE, PUBLIC INVITED
Much interest has apparently been 
aroused over the public lecture to 
be given this evening at S:30 in Cur 
negie Lecture. Hall by . William Spen
cer Murray, a consulting engineer of 
New York City, who will discuss 
The Superpower SystemA Funda
mental Requisite to National Eco
nomic Expansion. The lecture is 
held under the auspices of Carnegie 
Tech and according to announcements 
from Acting President Thomas S. 
Bilker, tho public is invited with no 
admission tickets required.
Of particular importance to Pitts
burgh business men and engineors 
interested in the industrial advance
ment of this district will be a detail
ed discussion ot the Pittsburgh dis
trict as ono of the. chief superpower 
territories of the United States. 
Plans for the development of tho su 
perpowev system have already been 
designed by Mr. Murray and other 
engineers, Lo such an extent that its 
actual operation is predicted within 
the next ton years. In securing Mr. 
Murray to expound tho principles of 
the system, Dr. Baker has engaged 
tho leading authority on this subject.
Somo of tho topics to be included 
in the lecture will be: Somo of tho 
superpower territories of tho United 
States, olectrlcity tlm greatest agent 
of power, f.he evolution of poworN dis
tribution systems and tliolr basic 
characteristics which liavo boon tho 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
DORMITES VICTORIOUS 
IN SHUTTER STRUGGLE
Once moro havo tho dormitory res
idents scored a victory in a long and 
hard fought controversy concerning 
tho* uTH of shutters, and ns a direct 
result tho school carpontors aro now 
orecting tho object of contention on 
tho sleeping porches to protect the in
habitants from tho olomontn.
Last year, canvas curtains or awn
ings wore supposod to fulfill tills pur
pose but owing to their battered con
dition thoy failed misorably, and 
woodon shutters woro promised.
Upon returning this fall, tho resi
dents liailod tho sight of tho shut
ters piled In ono corner of a porch, 
witli joy, but later when tho shutters 
remained in tho samo corner wlillo 
the rain again boat upon tho beds, tho 
quostion was raised as to tho valuo 
of tho beds in this location.
Aftor a semostor of potition, dobato, and attempted intimidation, tho 
desired result, has finally boon ob
tained, and soon tho irate residents 
may sleep In peace without tho ad
ditional eovor of an R. O. T. C. rain
coat.
Drama Graduate Directs , 
Poetic Tragedy Salome
Those to whom the work of Neal 
Caldwell was familiar during Ills four 
years in. the'Drama Department will 
be pleased to know that his endeav
ors have been receivinglmbllc recog
nition. Below is a news item taken 
from the Cintoinnati Times-Star of 
January 9, 1923.
The attention of the art-loving Cin
cinnati public has been attracted by 
the art theaters'beautiful and exotic 
production of Oscar Wildes poetic 
tragedy, Salome, which was so suc
cessful as to warrant a second weeks 
showing. Much of the plays excel
lence is due to the direction of Neal 
Caldwell, who came to Cincinnati aftr four years of training in the new 
stagecraft at Carnegie Technology 
School of Drama, in Pittsburgh. The 
play as it is given at the Art thea
ter, on Third street, has been pro
nounced! a distinctly new school 
production.
i------
Dr. T. S. Baker is arranging, a trip 
through the east and1 expects to ad
dress tho various clans along, the 
route.
His tentative schedule is as fol
lows:
Saturday evening, Fobruury 3; Now 
York Clan, fourth annual banquet and' 
dance, at the Hotel McAlpin, Broad
way and Thirtiyvfourtli' street..
Monday evening, February 5, Htuv 
risburg Clan, Rotary Club.
Tuesday evening, February 6, Pliil; 
adelphia Clan, Engineers Club.
Wednesday evening, Fobruary 7, 
Washington, D. C., Clan (tentative);
ERECTION OF 
SENIOR FENCE 
TO START SOON
FOOTBALL MOVIES 
SHOWN THIS WEEK
Tickets Benefit School If Pur
chased Here  Carnegie 
Week at Cameraphone
This week at the Ca,meraphono 
theater in East Liberty Is Carnegie 
week. The football pictures aro be
ing shown there, and since it is the 
only time and place that they will be 
shown in Pittsburgh, it' isexpected; 
that we will all go to see themThe 
school has guaranteed to sell ono 
thousand tickets. Those tickets in 
ovder to count toward the guarantee 
must be sold at tho Alumni ofiico and 
any that are sold boyond tho guaran
tee will be credited toward' us. The 
Alumni Office, liowovor, is not' yet wor
ried how largo the numbor sold be
yond tho guarantoo la going to-be.
This week is a bad ono. Wo admit 
it. Examinations aro looming uncom
fortably close and many of us are 
feollng shaky. But, listen; you know, 
or if you dont know ask somoono who 
ought, to, that the procoss of cram
ming is just ns lilcoly to-result in dis
aster as in passing. A roviow thoro 
should bo, to bo sure, but the Btudent 
who sits bent ovor his books'hour aft
er hour, before the final is likely to 
liuvo his brain about fagged.
Allow yourself a little diversion, 
and surely thoro can bo none bettor 
than tho sight of littlo Rohblo and 
good old Cy responding to our call of 
"Hold em, Tech. It. Is a sight for 
sore oyos and pralsod by all1 who> luwo ! 
soon it.
Tho price of admission Is the samo 
as usual, but ploaso buy your ticket 
at tho school. Tlio programs have 
boon printed and can bosooiv on tho 
various bullotln boards around1 tho 
campus. Docldo to come, and If pos
sible somo other night than the last 
two of tho wook, for thoro will bo a 
largo numbor who will wish to go> 
then.
M. M. Athletic Dinner
Rally Today 5:30-7:30
Hoar Ye! Hoar Yo! Maggy Murplut! 
Aro you coming out for tho big time 
tonight? Whore? In tho cafotorla. 
When? Five-thirty to sovou-thlrty. 
Why? It's tho big dinnor rally given 
by tho Margaret. Morrison Athletic 
Association to boost athletic in Mar
garet Morrison. The wholo school 
should bo thoro and from present in
dications it looks as though almost 
ovoryono will bo. Tho new plan of 
Inter-mujral basket ball is to bo pro* 
sontod by Miss Bowman, who is ad
visor and one of tho sponsors of tho 
now plan.
Miss Breod and Miss Brown aro go
ing to give short talks and tho rest 
of the time will be spent/in making 
booster plans for the future. The 
(Ulcers of the'assooiation are workln<r 
hard to arouse interest in athletics 
before the start of the second semes
ter TH that the sports and other ath
letic activities can be carried out in 
full. The dinnor starts promptly at 
five-thirty, and* the speeches will fol
low immediately. Music will be fur
nished for the evening. The officers 
of tho club are: President, Ray Fine; 
vice president, Helen McCrum, and 
secretary-treasurer, Eleanor Wilt.
School Authorities Approve 
Plans With Fence in New 
Location. Will Start Work 
Immediately After Exams
WILL ADJOIN LIBRARY
Tlio 'Senior FOnce, at last, aftor 
years of discussion, controversy, shift
ing of responsibility, and disintorestness of.' thoso involved, will bo con
structed and within a month. Tho 
plans aro finished, the1 money and sito 
have been obtained, and as soon as 
exams are-overIf not soonerwork 
will* bo started.1
If will bo constructed1 on the ground 
between the cut and the library hut, 
even with the front of the hut. Tho 
fence will be fifty feet long, in fivo 
sections, four and a half feet high 
witli throe bars.
If procurable, locustwill be em
ployed and! all'parts will'be round, tho 
upper bur being nine inches in diame
ter, and' tho lower bars, five inches.
Tlio need for a' Snior Fonc was 
felt iminediatoly aftor tlio war but 
no definite results wero obtained un
til this year when a' committee with 
Hugh \Sprinkle as chairman^ Jack 
Hallam and Bruce Powrio was ap
pointed:
Ono hundred and' fifty dollars was 
obtained fiorii the Student Council 
aiut' tho plans woro madia, boing com
pleted bofro Thanksgiving.
Whon placed beroro tho school oxocutlvo oommitteo the plans woro de
layed and finally when' tho site was 
Changed from then Scienco-Industrios 
lawn to tlio prosont location, tho com
mittee approved the construction.
Thib is the first of tho many pro
jects now on tho campus, that will bo 
finished, andits success lit clilotly duo 
to tho diligent work of its committee*
D. F. Burley, Science 
Freshman, Dies Here
Had Been Selected Member 
of Plebe Basket Ball Team
Announcement of tho death of Don-, 
aid Franklin Buirloy of Germantown, 
Pa., Freshmen In tho College of Engi
neering, who died of pneumonia on 
January 13, appeared In last week 
Tartan. Hill. clans sent ilowors to tho 
funeral Horvlcos which wore hold at 
tho ruoldoneo of hla sister, Mrs. II. J. 
.Spuhlur, !ili5 South Atlantic avenue, 
on January 15. Tho following memborn of tho Freshman class basket 
ball team, of which he was a member, 
acted as pallbearers: It. Ed In, 10.
A. Loporo, R. K. Burt, 11. It. Jones, J. 
G. Jackson and H. F. Reiter. Tho 
burial occurred at the Homewood 
cemetery, Pittsburgh.
His family has request,od that ills 
breakage refunds bo turned over to 
tho Athlotic Association, and that hit 
books and drawing supplies bo made 
aVallable for any incoming studont 
uoxL fall who might need them. *
In several of tho Pittsburgh and 
Philadelphia papors last wook uppoarod notices of Burleys death which 
contained statements. found to bo un
true by tho Tartan. Ono papor er
roneously stated that he suffered con
cussion of the brain and a fractured 
sku.ll secured in a basket ball (gamo. 
Another paper stated that he had 
been out only, ono day for tlio Fresh
man team, whereas he had been out 
for a considerable period, and had 
been selected by Coach Beeler as a 
first string man.
In its interests of seeing that the 
student body receives nows that can 
bo rolled on, the Tartan takes this 
opportunity of publishing those cor(Continued on Page Two.)
How Far is Up ? Question Answered | 
In Tattered Book Unearthed on Cut
LUTHERAN STUDENTS TO
MEET FRIDAY EVENING, 8 P. M.
Pneumonia, brought on by a weakened 
condition resulting rrom an attack 
of influenza during the recent epi
demic, was tho direct cause of tho 
death last Saturday evening of Her
bert Reich, a Sophomore in the Elec
trical Equipment and Installation 
Courses of the College of Industries.
Rellch died at the St. Francis Hos
pital at 10:35 p. m., after an illness 
of only three days. His parents, who 
reside in Cleveland, Ohio, wero at 
the bedside, and remained in Pitts
burgh until tho body was removed 
to his home, from where he was 
buried yesterday.
Reich came to Carnegie in Feb 
ruary, 1921, after graduation from 
the
An important meeting of all Luth
eran students has been "arranged for 
at the Lutheran Studpnt House, Bay
ard and Dlthrldge streets, Friday even
ing, 8 oclock. Besides planning for 
an enlarged schedule of activities the 
chief item of business will bo tho re
organ iza'tion of the student body. Tho 
meeting is being arranged for by the 
following committee: Prof. II. Me
Kee, Prof. H. Leighton, Miss Kath
erine Oesterling, Mr. J.' A. Francis 
and Rev. Hering.
Students will be interested to krtow 
the Student House is daily serving a 
larger number of table boarders and 
new residents are steadily filling up
Scandinavian-American 
Scholarships Are Offered
the rooms. The committee hopes to 
Hollywood. California High make the dining room service one of 
(Continued on Page Three) the features of the house.
The Amerlcan-Scandinavlan Foun
dation of New York will award in 
April to students of American birth, 
20 fellowships for study In the Scan
dinavian countries during 1023-24. 
These fellowships, which bear sti
pends of $1,000 each, are open not 
only to Seniors but to graduate stu
dents, and tlio younger Instructors. A 
list of the subjects for the fellowships 
and further particulars aro( available 
In Dean Tarboll's office.
DR. BINGHAM TO PRESIDE
AT INSTITUTE MEETING
Dr. Bingham, director, of the Psy
chology Division, has consented to 
preside at the meeting of the Brook
lyn Institute of Arts and Sciences, 
when that organization meets on Janjyary 31. to discuss Mental Testa in 
Industries.
By T. S. Repplier.
(Guaranteed under Poor Fool and 
Bugs Act.)
While excavating on the. strip of 
land known as the cut, the doughy 
men of Colonel Fairleys squad came 
across an ancient volume, tattered 
and dog eared, which will doubtless 
prove to be the greatest discovery of 
the decade. The book was written 
In ancient English script, and the 
finder proved to be unable to fully un
derstand Its contents, and wisely 
enough, passed the buck and the book, 
to the English Department, who were 
in a receptive mood.
After many hours of hard labor, the 
full secret was revealed, and the Carnegie Tartan is proud to lie able to 
publish tho results of tho invesf-lgatlon for tho first time, in any news
paper on tliis campus, ft appears 
that tho volume is an early diction
ary, applying to C, I. T., and written 
by Mr, Webster when lie was a boy 
studying in tho Collogo of Engineering. Some of the definitions con
tained therein havo been taken, at 
random, and will doubtless prove of 
interest to ail.
Hov< Far lo Up?
Shilling, The: An English coin the
value of which 1T 24 cents; a Ladies 
Magazine the value ofwhich isless 
than nothing.
PuppetAn illustrated primer for 
humorlesB adults.
DeanOne who tells others how to 
do the impossible.
ProfessorA superior being ad
dicted to the overuse of tho three Rs.
Coeda prune or peach whose out
look is bounded by a date.
CommonsA checkered hall contaiYiIng a large cash register.
Margaret MorrisonA. division pop
ulated by persons who look as though 
thoy came to get. a liberal education.-
IndustriesA division populated by 
persons who look as though thoy did 
not como to got a liberal education.
ScienceA division populated by 
persons who look as though thoy 
needed a liberal education.
ArtsA division, populated by per
sons who look as though thoy already 
had a too liberal education.
Dramat One who ranks just below 
tho Angel Gabriel.
FreshmanOne who walks with a 
swagger.
SophomoreOne who walks stealth
ily.
{Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instituto o 
Technology under e Buporvlnln ol the Student Acllvll.loB Hoard.___________
Entered in the Postfllc o Pittsburgh an second-class matter,___
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST .................................................................... Edltor-ln Cl.i-r
TelephoneHiland 858.H. D. SONNEMANN...................................................-.......................Business Manager
TelephoneSohenley 9211
E3DW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSohenley 9148
KENNETH ARNOLD .............................................................................. Assodate Editor
II. F. SIMPSON .......................................................................................... Associato Editor ;
Tel c j) h on eS li e n 1 ey 91 'I 3H. V. DIETER ........................................................................................................ Nows Editor
TelephoneHazel 9898H. II. WILSON ...............................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 985(5 .
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
It. li. KELLER............................................................................................Exchange Editor
H. P. COUSE, JR..............................................................................................................Art Editor
PA S. REPPLIER........................................................................................... Spocial Wrltor
A MEANS AND AN END
J. M. COOPER................................................................................... Advert Hin g Manager
TelephoneSohenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR ....................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchonloy 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Shoppurd, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Pholps,
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J. II. ForguHon.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Scliucker, T. J. DompBoy, J. B. 
LaudIg, D. MoBkovItz, J. W. Metro, P. W. Rollly, R. R. Young and H. Gibson.
The Editor-In-Chief la responsible for the policy ol! this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan wolcoift.es all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All now items must be in tho student 
poHtoillco before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan OlllceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursTueday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
DONT STAY AWAY
The attendance at the basket ball games lias not improved much. 
Just why the student body will not get out and support the teams is 
hard to determine. An hour or two spent at the game is good recre
ation, it is what the average student needs, after the daily routine. 
It is human for a team to play better when there is a crowd cheering 
for them to win, but as far as the support received this year goes, 
the men might as well have been on a foreign floor. As a rule the 
person who criticizes most when a game is lost is the individual who 
never goes near tho contests. The students have already paid admis
sion and are not getting all that is coming to them when they stay 
away.
WALK AROUND
True that the hypotheniise of a triangle| is shorter than the 
other two sides but when the line of least resistance is across the 
grass on the campus use the two sides. Some imbecile leaves his foot
prints and other weak minds follow. The saving is perhaps a frac
tion of a small, unit of time; the damage cannot be estimated in 
money for the financial loss is not as great as tho value of a beautiful 
campus.
BANQUET OE TEA PARTYWHICH?
Tis said there is a group of students who would abolish the an
nual Freshman and Sophomore banquets., This group does not need 
any serious consideration for their thoughts usually amount to nil; 
They arc like the conscicnlions objectors ol' tho late World AVar, 
whoso ideas were overridden by general opinion and sentiment just 
like a steam roller crushes a. small pebble. They are of that small 
group ol! men, whoso blood is morn liko water than anything else 
they abhor I,ho sight of a good light, and have the very much mis
taken idea that the recipient Of a cvfit or bruise is to be pitied. Ho 
is a hero. They have nol; that good rod-blood that makes the world 
go around. They give up tho light Kyitli tho sight of a little opposi
tion.
Which is just another way of saying that tho Freshman and 
Sophomore bmuiuots,! with fchpir fioo-for-alls is a, fixture. They are 
one ol tho traditions ol! Oarnogio Toch, ol! which, noodlcas to say, 
tlioro is a groat insufficiency.
.All ol! which rominds us, did you over hear oJ! a school that does 
not have l-hoir annual lights, and so forth'/ No, you never did I II! 
lihbre is anything lacking at Carnegie Toch, rath or than there being 
too much of this sort of a thing, thoro is a, tendency to be not enough. 
i.jQoking Jit tho matter in a different light think ol! tho class spirit 
arousedtho spirit of tho .fight the spirit of the men who succood. 
Follows, it :is American to got in tho swim, and, then light out ol! 
it I It is that willingness to light that has made America drive to 
tho front.....Contributed.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24
DramaYoure Next............................................................................................8:15, .Arts Theater
Student Assemblies
College of Engineering.....................................11:30, 208 Science
College of Fine Arts........................................11:30, Arts Theater
Margaret Morrison College................................11:30, M. M. C. C.
College of Industries  ..............................12 -.30, 104 Industries
WEEK OF JANUARY 22
Football Movies.....................................................Cameraphone Theater
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, 
JANUARY 24, 25, 26 AND 27
DramaYoure Next.....................;.......................8:15, Arts Theater
(Last two nights reserved for students)
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
DanceMens Junior Prom................................9:00, Hotel Sclienley
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Penn State.......S :30, Carnegie Field House
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
Payment of Second Semesters fees.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6
Classes Resumed.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
DanceArts Ball............................................................................................:..............9:00, College of Fine Arts
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10 
DancePost Ball Dance..................................................9 :00, Arts Foyer
What Is usually termed initiative" 
Ib frequently nothing more than an 
ability to supply an idea. The man 
who Ih capable of suggesting an orig
inal mode of procedure, and unex
pected means of accomplishment, is 
the than who will take command and 
receive credit for "initiative." Ah IH 
are constantly reminded, college 
Hhould have as one of its alms tho 
development of just Bueh a quality, 
and In the case of tho man who 
grasps his opportunities this aspect 
of character building generally' re
ceives duo emphasis. Likewise, one 
of tho results of an education should 
bo to oncourago originality in speech 
and thought; If this bo accomplished 
a long step has been taken towards 
bringing out tho best in tho student.
Individuality of thought is always 
admired and in tho great majority of 
cases deservingly so. That person 
whose processes of reasoning differ 
from the mass Is certain to make this 
divergency apparent in his actions at 
some time or other. Where the aver
age would be content with a mediocre 
success he will expect something bet
terand more often than not he will 
uehlovo his deBiro. We feel that one 
criterion by -which to measure the suc
cess'of an education would be the de
gree In which it cultivates dissatis
faction -with notion of "good enough, 
and tho manner in which it incites 
endeavor to rise above the mediocre. 
Wo also feel that the justification for 
such a standard is in the large num
ber of university graduates who have 
assumed places of importance in the 
professional and business world, and 
who have used their position to desseminate the benefits of their earlier 
training among those about them. 
The McGill Daily.
ROAMINS
Letter From Military Department.
To the Editor of The Carnegie Tar
tan, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
Dear Sir: 
In tho Roamlns column of the iBissue of The Carnegie Tartan of Jan
uary 17, there was a criticism of the 
Military Department for the position 
of the flag at half-mast last week, 
following tho death of Prof. Keller. 
In regard to the coirect position of 
the flag we quote paragraph 422 of 
the United States Army Regulation: 
On tho death of any officer or en
listed man of a military post, the 
fiag is displayed at haltstaff, and TH 
remains, between reveille and re
treat, until; tho last Balvo or volley 
is fired over the grave; or if tho re
mains are not interred at the post, 
until they are removed therefrom."
Very truly yours, 
MILITARY DEPARTMENT.
Roamor sees nothing better than 
to admit he was wrong in last week's 
Issue. We hear .that tile Military 
Department has offered a reward for 
the capture of Roamer, dead or alive.
It looks as though Roamer were 
to have tlie flag at half-mast for hiB 
own benefit in the near future.
When any one mentions exams, we 
thing of that touching expression 
Theirs not to wonder why, theirs 
but to do or die.
Speaking of examinations, Roamer 
believes that the best way to pre
pare, for them is byi going tothe 
Scandals the night before.
MRS. J. E. WEBSTER 
SPEAKS TO GIRLS
"The Open Mind is Subject 
of Talk to League of 
Women Voters
M. M. Household Economics 
Department Entertained at Tea
Tho faculty and Freshman class of 
IVtnrghrot Morrison woro ontoralnod 
on Friday, January 19, at a tea* glvon 
In tho practice dining room by tho 
Freshman soctlon of tho HoUaoliqld 
Mconomlcs Department.
Tho serving table was artistically 
decorated with a lingo bowl ol! mari
golds In tho center und candlesticks 
on either side. The girls at tho de
partment alternated receiving and 
serving. Dainty sandwiches, small 
calces, cream wafers, tea and coffee 
were served.
Among the faculty members present 
were: Director Breed, Miss McBride, 
Mr. Staley, Mr. Foery and Dr. 
Tschauu.
HARVARD PREXIES LEAD
According to the Alumni Bulletin 
of Harvard, forty Harvard! graduates 
are now presidents of American col
leges. In the state of Maine there 
is a (Harvard man at the head of 
-every college.
PRIZES FOR ESSAYS
ON ANDREW CARNEGIE
(Continued From Pogo One.) 
ono aide of pmin pupor.
Judges: Thoro shall ho throo
judges; two from the Dopartmont of 
English, named by tho Hoad of tho 
Dopartmont, and a third from with
out. tho1 faculty, named by tho Presi
dent. if In any year the judges do 
cUlo that no ossays are worthy of a 
prl/,0, no prl/.es will he awarded.
Prizes: Prize for  best essay,
$50.00.
Prize Tor second best essay, $25.00.
Prize for third best eBay, $25.00.
Prlzo for fourth best essay honor 
able meution.
Eligibility: Tho competition is
open to all undergraduate students 
registered In the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology who are candidates for 
degrees, with the exception of those 
who liave won the Margaret Wilson 
Essay Prize in some previous year.
Should further Information be de
sired, it can be secured from Dean 
Tarbell, Chairman of the Institute 
Committee on Scholarships, Grants 
and Prizes.
Wednesday afternoon a group of 
fifty girls from Arts and Margaret 
Morrison gathered in the Recreation 
Hail of Margaret Morrison for a meet
ing of the League of Women Voters. 
Ton was served while tho Stringers 
played. Miss Priscilla Allison then 
Introduced tho speaker who Is active
ly interested in public affairs. Mrs. 
Webster has been an officer of tho 
leaguo /but withdrew in order that she 
might take an active part in tho cam
paign of Pinchot for governor.
Her subject was The Open ,Mlnd. 
When studying any problem we must 
lot our reason, not our prejudices, 
govern our thinking.., So it is with 
politics. Tho purpose of tho League 
of Women Voters is educational and 
its policy is strictly non-partisan. 
Both sides of a question are present
ed and tho conclusions or decisions 
are loft to tho women thomselvos. 
Lllcowlso tho records of tho Caudl? 
dates from both parties are examined. 
Tho mombors of tho loaguo attempt 
to rule tlioniHolvos by roason and not 
by prejudice when' considering such 
problems as tho race quostlon and. is
sues involving labor and capital.
Mrs. Wobstor suggested sovoral of 
tho things for' which tho leaguo is 
lighting:
I; liotention of tho primary sys
tem In tho solootlon of party candl 
datoB.
2, Proper supervision of tho polls 
at oloctlon time.
1. A constitutional convention to 
amond or rewrite tho present consti
tution of tho State or Pennsylvania.
Finally and,perhaps tho most im
portant purpose of the league is to 
get the people of,the educated class 
to throw off their indifference in pol
itics, and to realize their responsibili
ties as voters.
After the speech nine people signed 
as members of the leaguo and fifteen 
as associate members. Tlie following 
people were named as the nominating 
committee of the oUlcers for the new 
Carnegie Tech unit:
Esther Johnston, Josephine Soisson, 
Frances Burrows Eleanor Schomberg, 
Thelma Leatherman.
This is the first Carnegie Tech ven
ture of this kind. All Carnegie wom
en are invited to join. The fee for 
membership in the national league is 
one dollar but any one may join the 
local unit as an associate member by 
attending the meetings.
The next meeting will be held soon 
after the second semester begins.
HOW FAR IS UP? QUESTION 
ANSWERED IN TATTERED
BOOK UNEARTHED ON CUT
(Continued From Page One.) 
JuniorOue who walks with a 
frown.
ISenlorOno who walks with a cane. 
CutA punishment inflicted for 
minding ono's own business; a strip 
of land passod over simultaneously by 
wind and wonion.
ExaminationAn Intent to defraud, 
RegistrationA process by which 
ono Is reduced t;o zero,
Graduation---A process by which 
tho ass 1T olothod In a shoopskln, 
Fraternity-An organization In 
which neckwear Is lcopt In constant 
circulation.
PromAn uncomfortable fashion 
show, featured by tho use of unaccus
tomed clothing, companions, cash and 
cabs.
First Name, Please.
It Is to bo suspected that Mr. Web
ster's Christian namo was not Daniel 
but Frank, or possibly Earnest. There 
is a vague rumor to tho effect that 
this dictionary was written after the 
faculty had dropped him from the 
Institute rolls, but Director Mott re
fuses to confirm the statement, and in 
fact insists that Mr. Webster was 
here not at all. What peculiar people 
Deans are, after all!
However, we wont accept the re
sponsibility! if our pet theory fails 
to work.
Now is the most proper and fitting 
time for someone to start a cam
paign against examinations.
The Scandals remind Roamer of 
what Kiping is reported as once say
ing: There are only twenty-nine
good stories in tho world and you 
cant tell twenty-eight of them to a 
woman."
Now don't get the impression that 
Roamer saw the Scandals , because 
really he didnt.
Well, fellow-sufferers, Roamer 
wishes you all the luck in the world 
in your coming struggles to outwit 
tho Prof.
ROAMER.
ThE "EDUCATED" MAN
To bo educated in the best sense 
of tho word, says an erudite profes
sor in tho University of Chicago, who 
is right, a man must bo able to truth
fully answer in tho affirmative all 
these questions:
Has education made you publicspirited?
Has it made you a brother to the 
weak
ITnvo you learned how to make 
friends and keep them?
Do you know what it Is to be a 
friend yourself?
Can you look an honest man or 
pure woihan In tho oyb?
Do you see anything to love in a 
little child?
Will a lonely dog follow you in the 
street?
Can you be high-minded and lmppy 
In the meanest drudgeries of life?
Do you think washing dishes and 
hoeing corn just as compatible with 
high thinking as piano playing and 
golf?
Are you good ifor anything yoursolf?
Can you be happy alone?
Can you look out on the world and 
see anything except dollars and cents?
Can you look into a mud puddle by 
the wayside and see a clear sky?
Can you see anything in the puddle 
but mud?
Can you look into the sky at night 
and seo beyond the stars?
Whoever replies yes'* to every 
auery in the list, without doing vio
lence to his conscience, is really edu
cated," whether he has seen the in
side of a college or not.Reveille.
GOVERNOR HONORS 
DR. HAMERSCHLAG
Ex-President Appointed to 
Committee on State Edu
cation Grants
Dr. Arthur SW Hamerschlag, expresident of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, has recently been ap
pointed on a committee by Gov. G. 
Pinchot to investigate the appropria
tions of state funds to the various 
colleges in Pennsylvania. The im
portance of such an appointment can 
best be understood by the publication 
of the following letter:
Dr. A. A. Hamerschlag,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Doctor Hamerschlag:
The three great collegiate institu
tions of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania 
State College, University of Pennsyl
vania, and University of Pittsburgh, 
together with certain smaller institu
tions, have been receiving in the ag
gregate very large sums of money 
from the state.. It is of the first im
portance that whatever appropriates 
are made to these institutions should 
be expended in the most effective and 
economical way, and this is especially 
true because of the serious financial 
situation of the Commonwealth.
We shall begin th-3 next appropria
tion period with many millions of left 
over appropriates still unpaid. This 
means not only that the budget which 
I shall submit to the Legislature must 
be based upon appropriations reduced 
substantially below those of the pres
ent period, but also that any duplica
tion in the expenditure of state funds 
must be cut out.
I understand that such duplication 
exists as between the institutions of 
higher education supported in whole 
or in part by state appropriations. It 
seems to me imperative 'that this du
plication should be eliminated as the 
first condition of the granting of fur
ther appropriations .from the Btate.
Since it is impossible for me per
sonally to examine, the mass or detail 
involved in reaching a sound judg
ment in this matter, I desire to ap
point a committee to consist of the 
three heads of Pennsylvania State 
College, University of Pennsylvania 
and University of Pittsburgh, togeth
er with three citizens chosen from 
the state at large, to consider this 
matter and report to me with recom
mendations. I suggest that the rep
resentatives of the three universities, 
while members, of the committee, 
should not be entitled to vote, so that 
the decision reached may be wholly 
impartial.
Three citizens at large whom I am 
inviting to perform this important and 
difficult service to the Commonwealth 
are: Dr. Henry S. Drinker, of Phil
adelphia, President Emeritus of Le
high University, Miss Florence M. Dibert, of Johnstown, President of the 
League of Womens Clubs, and your
self. Will you give your assistance 
in this matter? As it is exceedingly 
urgent, I suggest that the first meet
ing of the committee should be held 
on Tuesday, December 19, at 2 oclock, 
in Room 912, of the Real Estate Trust 
Building, Philadelphia, at which time 
T desire to discuss more fully the pur
pose of the committee with Its mem
bers.
In closing, let me express my very 
keen hope that you will be able to 
tflvo me your assistance in this mat
ter. I regard this question as of very 
largo importance and shall be very 
grateful if you are able to help.
Sincerely yours,
GIFFORD PINCHOT.
What has the future in store for f 
us? Success or failure? Happiness! 
or misery? An uphill fight against j 
starvation or an even fight for the; 
good things of life? Many things may j 
decidehealth, education, or events j 
beyond our control.
Life may be likened to a vast coun
try with a high wall stretched across 
the middle. You are on one side of 
this wall. You, therefore, know that 
part of the country, but what lies on 
the other side is beyond your knowl
edge. It is a vast unknown land. 
Some day, your curiosity is going to 
carry you over that wall and you will 
see. It may mean something terrible 
or nice. You can, in a way, help 
make it nice through taking precau
tionspreparing for your journey.
Your past life is the side of the 
wall you know. Your future lies on 
the other side....many people pre
pare for their journey into the future 
with insurance.
Insurance is a great thing. Wher
ever it happens to be placed, there it 
is doing a great service. This serv
ice is manifoldwhat is there in the 
economic world that cannot be pro
tected by insurance? One would have 
to search far and wide to find some
thing that cannot be protected by inMining Department 
Visits Parnassus Mine
Mr. N. G. Alford Will Lecture 
to Mining Students Friday
At Parnassus, Pa., Is the second lar
gest producing mine in the Western 
Pennsylvania bituminous region. It 
is the Valley Camp Coal Co. and 
the superintendent and own of the 
mine is Mr. Kinloch. This man thinks 
so much of this school and is so much 
interested in its progress that the 
Mining students were given the oppor
tunity of visiting this mine last Fri
day by a personal invitation of the 
superintendent, Mr. Kinloch.
The capacity of this mine at pres
ent is in the neighborhood of about 
four hundred tons daily. The coal is 
at a depth of eighty-five feet below 
the surface, and it is brought to the 
surface by means of a mechanical 
conveyor; it is possible to load an or
dinary railroad gondola in five min
utes with this' conveyor.
The most up-to-date method of coal 
mining is being employed, namely the 
block system and not less than ninetyeight per cent of the entire coal in 
the bed is being mined.
On next Friday afternoon there will 
be a lecture in Room 63 Science, and 
the speaker will be Mr. N. G. Alford 
of the E. A. Eavenson Company, con
sulting mining engineers. His talk 
will be devoted to prospecting and de
velopment of a coal mine.
W. S. MURRAY TO
SPEAK ON SUPER-POWER
D. F. BURLEY, SCIENCE
FRESHMAN, DIES HERE
WHAT CO-EDS TALK ABOUT
According to statistics compiled by 
Prof. Ralph H. Power, of the Uni
versity of California, the co-eds of 
his college talk more about men 
than they do about any other sub
ject. Here are his figures: Talk
about men, 57 per cent; talk about 
dress and fashion, 27 per cent; talk 
about amusements, 3 per cent; just 
gossip, 7 por cent; jokes old enough 
to be retired, 1 per cent; miscellane
ous, 5 per cent. Tlie observing eye 
will notice that the talk about study
ing is conspicuous by its absence.
POTENTIAL DYNAMITE
Looky liyah, boy, don yo-all come 
rambunctionln aromi me. Iso tough, 
I Is. Wliy l kulnt ovon go down 
tho streot wllh mah hands in mali 
poclcots, Iso so tough.
Hni-m-hmhow conio?"
Tlioy pinoli me for carryln' conoealo'd woapons."Tho Toolinique.
(Continued From Page One.) 
roctlons, and is especially anxious to 
do so because Burley was a fine type 
of a Freshman who had started in 
early not only to show unusual prom
ise in his scholastic work, but also in 
Ills service to his college through ac
tivities.
Co-eds at Northwestern have 
agreed to have no social engagements 
with University men on Mondays, 
Tuesdays and Thursdays during the 
coming year. The. pledge is taken 
because the girls believe that too 
many datesinterfere with a college 
mans athletics and the school will 
suffer if athletes do not have the 
proper training, according to the 
president of the Womens Self-Gov
ernment Association.
OVERHEARD IN BARBER SHOP
Barber to Hair Restorer Customer: 
Your hair is coming out fine, now. 
Disgruntled Victim: Yes, it will
be all out soon."The Pennsylvan
ian.
(Continued From Page One.) 
forerunner of the superpower system, 
electrification of industries and rail
roads and their joint relation to tho 
superpower structure, financing the 
superpower system aijd its relation 
to the government, government owned 
versus privately owned, but publicly 
controlled utilities, electrioation as 
a means to increase capacities of 
railroads and to lessen their financial 
burden, what tho superpower system 
means in terms of coal saving and 
economic power production.
The lecturo will be illustrated1, and 
will be given at 8:30 p. m.
Freshmen co-eds at Temple Uni
versity, Philadelphia, have a hard 
lot. At the dormitories they are re
quired at all meals to wear bibs 
bearing their names. They must 
wear lisle hose on Mondays, Wed
nesdays and Fridays, and go to 
church every Sunday. On fuesdayi 
and Thursdays they may neither 
paint or powder or curl their hair.
suranceand even then, he might 
fail!
To be insured is to be protected 
from loss. Not to be insured may 
mean failure with all of the terrible 
aftermaths. Over estimating its good 
cannot be doneunderestimating is 
done every day. Result: Failure*
misery, or a hard fight for existence.
Realizing these things, Carnegie 
Tech, four years ago, started the offi
cial school of the Association of Life 
Agency Officers and the National As
sociation of Life Underwriters, with 
the name "School of Life Insurance 
Salesmanship."
In this school certificates are con
ferred upon its graduates if, after one 
years work in the field after comple
tion of course, one hundred thousand 
dollars worth of life insurance has 
been paid for.
Up to the second of October, eight 
classes had finished the coursesix 
hundred and four men. They came 
from forty-two different states, seven 
Canadian Provinces, and one from Ja
pan. They represented sixty-nine dif
ferent companies.
One of these men wrote back: "Ive 
been in the field six months, and have 
paid for one million dollars, and 
havent started yet. Hes not in a 
class by himself, either!
Last summer the faculty conducted 
a course on the Pacific coast.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
I Start the
I Week Right ;t*t*!; Church on Sunday : 
i puts new pep into Moniday, Tuesday, Wednes!; daytill Sunday comes 
j: again. Try it and see.
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQTJET
Fifty steps from the 
campus
tittitttiZttitiitttitittiilliiiXtXtXiiii
li Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbatji School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... S:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
ttwamtmttmmmiiamam
LINES FROM
FAMOUS UNITARIANS
The aid of the Lord of Hosts 
is still invoked in international 
warfare, and each side praises 
and thanks .Him for its success.
Charles W. Eliot.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
Leo sez, Sure, I believe in mar
riage. You cant expect to be happy 
always.The Springfield Student.
Bill Pfouts (in middle of joke:) 
Have I ever told the class this one 
before?
Class, (in chorus:)Yes.
Bill (proceeding:)Good!, You 
will probably understand it this 
timo.->-Tbe Technique.
THE RETORT CRUSHING
Traffic Cop1Say you! Didnt you 
see mo wave at you?"
Mirandy-Yes, you fresh thing., 
you, and if Henry were here hed 
paste you 0110 for It.Sun Dodger.
SUMMER WORK
THE NATIONAL SURVEY
Lithographic Works.....................Philadelphia, Pa.
Topographical Offices..................Chester, Vermont
Western Office.................................Cleveland, Ohio
For particulars see 
NATHAN LEEBOV, 322 ATWOOD STREET 
KARL KORMAN
The Fisk Building, New York City' 
CARRRE & HASTINGS
'Designing in Masses
THE new architecture transcends detail and expresses 
the component solids of the great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles are reared against the 
skytrue expression of structural facts has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely together.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future. .
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in ail Principal Cities of thcWorld

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Plebe Floor Squad to 
Face Fast Opponents
Program Includes Indianaj 
Kiski and Westinghouse
Women Athletes Will Hold 
Dinner and Rally TonightOn the Plaid Screen
The Freshman basket ball sched
ule this year is the hardest one in the 
history of the school. Among their' 
opponents are such schools as In
diana Normal, Kiski, and Westing
house Tech. They have started oft 
on the right foot and they will con
tinue to do so if they get a little rec
ognition by the student body. Thus 
far one would hardly know that they 
existed from the little that is heard 
of them on the campus. These boys 
are the varsity of the future, so talk it 
up.
Schedule.
January 25Coraopolis (there).
January 26  Indiana Normal 
(there.)
February 3Kiski (here).
fFebruary 6Westing. Tech (here).
' February 9Duke Preps (here).
February 10Duke Preps (there).
February 17Indiana Nor. (there).
February 23Calif. Nor. (there).
February 27  Braddock High 
(there).
March 10Westing. Tech (there).
 March 16Kiski (pending) (there).
COLLEGE REPRESENTATIVE
Wanted, two colletre men to represent us 
en ndvertisinK proposition about four hours' 
time per week required. Salary 25 to 35 
per week. We have steady work for you dur
ing vacation, 75 to 100 per week. If you 
aro anxious to earn your college expenses 
write us at once. State what college you 
attend.
Box 301, Harrisburg, Pa.
EDISON MAZDA LAMPS ' 
At new low prices.
Acorn Storage Battery Co. ! 
4521 Forbes St., Near Craig St.  
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phone Schenley 4545.
FUNDS FOR ABROAD 
Successful armies must 
maintain their lines of 
communication. Likewise 
successful travelers. Mel
lon Travelers Checks and 
Letters of Credit assure a 
reliable connection with 
home resources while 
abroad. It is the RIGHT 
way to carry funds.
Mellon National Banlc
Oliuer Srmihfteld 
il
Over Margaret Morrison way, the > 
girls are working hard to get the max: 
imum amount of interest in the inter
class games. Before a girl can make ; 
the varsity, she must first make her I 
class team, which fact in itself ought j 
to insure the success of the leagues, j
Although each class will have a : 
team, the Sophs are already claiming 
the championship. Last year, when 
they were Freshmen, they were bare
ly defeatedtwo pdints being the 
marginby the Seniors. This year 
with their team intact they feel that 
no other team has a chance.
Judging from the wealth of mate
rial reported so far, Miss Bowman ex
pects to have her hands full selecting 
her varsity. Among tne girls who 
have so far reported are: Ray Fine,
Eleanore Craver, Miriam Bond, Helen 
Daugherty, Bessie Bulmer, Margaret 
Markey, Rose Morin, Winifred Rice, 
Ruth Snyder, Hildredth Bolmmmer, 
Mary Spears, Helen Lloyd, Charlotte 
Durie, Beryl Rankin, Cash Galleringer, Jeraldine Corbitt, Elizabeth Morin, 
Dorothea MacMinn, Ruth Gleichert, 
Virginia Atkinson, Ellenor Hodkinson, 
Nell Welsh, Agnes Allison, Eloise 
Bellinger and Lillian Cunningham. .
The dinner and rally scheduled for 
tonight will be held and a good turn
out is expected.
By H. H. WILSON
The early bird gets the worm. So we have oft heard it said, and have 
sometimes wondered wJiat the bird would do if he was on hand before any 
worms were stirring around. Anyway, the track team has started on its 
annual jaunt into the sports world long before the usual time, and nary a 
bird or worm in sight. But we think the team will survive the wintry blasts 
on a few choice morsels in the line of indoor track meets, and be in tip-top 
shape for the regular stuff when the suns rays again favor us with thoir 
warmth.
Inter-Frat.-Dorm. Games J 
Show Great Improvement
Some very fast basket ball was dis
played in the Inter-Fraternity-Dormi* 
tory games last week. All the teams 
have been showing a great improve
ment the past week and some very 
close scores were recorded.
Results of the games played in 
Langley Lab. last week are as follows:
American League.
Delta Mu 14, Woodlawn Club 8.
Boss Hall 20, Tau Gamma Phi 13 
(protested).
Delta Upsilon 14, Phi Kappa Alpha 
21.
McGill Hall forfeited to Sigma Nu.
National League.
Iota Sigma Delta 35, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon 12.
Beta Tli eta Pi 18, Scobell Hall 5.
Kappa Sigma Rlio 22, Delta Phi 
Delta 7.
Delta Epsilon Omega 15, Sigma Ep
silon Phi 10.
Federal League.
Theta Xi 18, Welch Hall 17.
Beta Sigma Rho 20, Kappa Sigma 
10.
Xi Sigma Upsilon 20, 'Square and 
Compass 5.
We have our head full of those wise sayings. Of course youve heard 
the one about it being an ill wind that blows nobody good. Well, we mourn 
just as much as anybody the temporary disappearance of Old Man Baseball 
from our midst, but take courage in the realization of wliat is in store for 
the track fans. The baseball squad each year contains many men who should 
perhaps be jogging along on the cinder path. With the passing of baseball, 
these men will probably turn to track athletics, thus adding new life to an 
already strong sport at Carnegie. A good track team can bring more glory 
to the Plaid than a mediocre diamond aggregation could ever do.
The same holds true for tennis. And we understand from advance dope 
that Manager Pete Kreisle is making up a corking good schedule.
One of the varsity basket ball men the other night said that during the 
Penn State game, We just seemed to get going for the first time. They 
had been trying desperately to get going in the early games, but it wasnt 
until 'the State encounter that they really got that old feeling within em of 
having at last arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, let us get going and show the 
players that we,-too, have that same old feeling in us.
The cheerleaders are taking life easy. At the Geneva game last Satur
day, only one leader was on the floor trying to stir up student pep. At the 
West Virginia game the following night, two led before the start of the game 
and only one thereafter. It looks as though the Knights of the Megaphone 
are resting on the laurels gained during the football season.
Geneva Downs Plaid in Allegheny High Drops 
Fast Over-Time Game Close Game to Plebes
Midge Matter Scores Ten of 
Twelve Free Throws
But even more than the yell leaders the student body is at fault. School 
spirit seems to have deserted the gym. Those who attend the games do nott 
cheer; they do not make the players feel that the students care whether the 
games are won or lost. We bragged of our school spirit during the football 
season. But can we honestly call it school spirit when it ebbs like the 
tide as soon as football is on the wane? We cannot blame the cheerleaders 
for that. Saturday night, a special cheering section was reserved for girls. 
The girls failed to materialize. The one bright spot of the evening, except
ing the Carnegie victory, was the work of the Band. The cheering was not 
commensurate with the quality of the game. After the exams are over, let 
us start the new semester with a new determinationto mako the team 
realize that we are with them and that it is of vital importance to us 
whether their efforts result in defeat or victory.
Every year a healthy sum is appropriated for the support of baseball. 
This year that money must bo turned into other channels. Tennis and track 
will bo the outstanding sports at Carnegie this year. Why not divido the 
spoils between these two and put both on a higher plane? Both teams are 
meeting faster opponents this year than ever before, and it is only fitting 
that their respective managers should have sufficient money available to care 
for the needs of the men.
Fraternities wanting Dance Pro
grams, Favors, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
*
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
*
Flowers for Every Occasion j
Gift Boxes 
Corsages
Plants
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the quality | 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company \
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET j
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
Announsing
that:
ikVer^s SkoGB
wil continue to visit
CARNEGIE TECH
thruout the coming collej year 
with the newest and best in conservativly correct footwear at 
prices ranjing from $7 to $10.
The first display of the season wil 
be at:
Fraternities on January 27
,j3Kiv\\4jd
nVeit Jo''V.
General Offises : i'll Duane street New York. City
<J\JewYovl\ Shops Philadelphia Shop
1401-01 Broadway nujj Chestnut strenbeloT.mca guaru.srbclo the anj in aovmKown^uinliattaii u . .1*nd Brsohtyn Hotel Adclphi*
We note that Greasy Neale has signed up to coach at University of Vir
ginia next fall and that Jock Sutherland is coming back to Pitt the following 
year to succeed Pop Warner. The writer does not believe that W. & J. will 
suffer through the loss of their coach; for while Neale is without doubt one 
of the greatest football mentors in this section, ho does not have the college 
ideals, and in his efforts to win at any cost, he has frequently been accused 
of applying to college football the principles of organized baseball.
Jock Sutherland, we believe, will fill admirably the placo to be vacated 
by Warner. Pie knows the Warner System thoroughly and will certainly 
make good with the team of his Alma Mater.
We have noticed of late that certain sport writers aro prone to depart 
from the truth, particularly in regard to things which touch the heartstrings 
of more people than they realize. Most reporters aro too ready to make 
a good story out of a few facts gleaned hero and there. In doing this, they 
never stop to think how much trouble or misunderstanding it may cause to 
certain individuals. Weve heard someone say: "Get the facts, and wo be
lieve it is a good adage to follow.
Track Athletes Training at 
Armory Tues, and Thurs.
Regular track practice lias started 
at the 107th Regiment Armory with 
more than thirty candidates romping 
about the tan bark oval, putting thoir 
legs and lungs in proper condition to 
undertake the intensive outdoor 
spring tryouts.
For the past two weeks the cinder 
path artists have been journeying to 
the armory in East Liberty every 
Tuesday and Thursday at 4:30 where 
Coach Beeler has been handing out 
his instructions, assisted by Captain 
Chester Brumbaugh.
The armory provides ample room 
for any form of running or field work
and if enough candidates report for I son into tho winter months and If 
each event Carnegie will have the results come out of It, no doubt tho 
jump on colleges with whom dual i same work will be considered during 
events are scheduled in the early ! other seasons.
spring. A 200 yard straight away and 
f-n eighth milo oval is all that could 
bo expected for an indoor track.
Some material is green, very green, 
while tho nucleus from last years 
squad will give Coach Beeler Bomo 
encouragement and not all handicap. 
Thoso men who have been reporting 
quite regularly are: Bright, Christie, 
Nickels, .Tones. Middleton, Mitchell, 
Sampson, Robertson, Lockwood, 
Swanson, Schuckor, DoMare, Daniels, 
Loughroy, Walker, Luty, Beoohor, 
Bolin, Cain, Mendenhall, Overholt, 
Borglund, igzold, O'Calluhan, Coopor, 
Fuller, Schwab, Captain Chester 
Brumbaugh, Hugo" Sprlnklo and 
"Si Comfort.
This is the first year that Carnegie 
has attempted to push the track seaNew Fraternity Directory
NATIONAL FRATERNITIES
Telephone No.Fraternity. House.
Beta Sigma Rho1146 Wightman Street..................
Beta Theta Pi5549 Forbes Street.........................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Upsilon5224 Liberty Avenue .....................................................I-Iiland 858
Kappa Sigma615 Clyde Street .......................................................Schepley 9401
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard........................................Schenley 9285
Phi Epsilon Pi ......................................................................................................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbes Street...................................Schenley 9211
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Street..........................................................Schenley 659
Theta Xi4902 Forbes Street ...........................................................Schenley 9143
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Delta Epsilon Omega254 Bellefield Avenue.............................Schenley 9102
Delta Phi Delta .......................................................................................................................
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro and Wightman .......................................Hazel 9356
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and Wightman...............................................................
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson Avenue ..................................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5812 Bartlett Street ............................................Hazel 9398
Square and Compass Club6604 Northumberland Street.............Hazel 9308
Tau Gamma Phi5064 Forbes Street ............................................Schenley 9231
Woodlawn Club5814 Forbes Street ...................................................Hazel 9422
Xi Sigma Upsilon1510 Shady Avenue...................................................Hazel 9416
Last Friday night, boforo a fair
sized but weak-voiced assemblage of 
rooters, the scrappy Tartan Avo drop
ped a close and hard-fought contest 
to the clever Genova basketers.
Tho first half of this game was 
slow as far as basket ball is con
cerned. There was no brilliant scor
ing and there was a lack of team
work displayed by both teams. The 
first half ended in a 14 to 14 tie. 
The Tartan five was not at top 
form. There was a great difference 
iti the team that night and the night 
following when they defeated West 
Virginia. Every basket ball team 
has its off nights and this must 
have been one of GUI's. In the sec
ond half the Plaid five came back 
with a crash and a bang. They play
ed a game that was a real treat to 
see. So many thrills were furutshod 
that tho fans were out of their seats 
continuously. Anderson, Gibson and 
Matter made up a trio that displayed 
some real teamwork. Matter, tho lit
tle Slcibo forward, again proved his 
worth by making good 10 out of 12 
goals from foul. The game was 
slowed down considerably by excess 
fouling, and in Schupe, Geneva had 
their victory. Out oL 22 tries from 
fouls Schupe made good on 34. On 
account of this the score was still 
tied at the end of tho regulation 40 
minutes.
An extra five-minute period was 
called for, in which a decision was 
to be roached. Thei score was 31 
to 31. First a foul was called on 
Tech. Shupe made one and missed 
tho other. Thou shortly aftorwards 
a foul was called  on Geneva and 
Midge Matter made good on both of 
them. Carnegie Tech now had a 
one point lead. Both teams were 
fighting for all they were worth and 
no points were scored until just a 
few seconds boforo tho end of tlio 
game when Schupe dropped in a 
(basket for Genova. Tho final score 
was 34 to 33.
Gibson played some consistent 
gamo for which ho has a roputatlon. 
No matter wiuvt happons you can 
count on Gibblo to be there with 
ithe same oldj fight. Andorson also 
played a fine gamo, scoring: tho most 
points from tho floor for Tech. Llttlo 
"Midgo Matter performed like a 
vetoran. When you consldor that 
this Is his first year on tho varsity 
he should bo given all tho credit In 
tho world for his good work. Mohrman, tho young Plobo who played 
guard sure did look good. Shupe 
was the outstanding star for Genova 
Ho scored 24 of tho 34 points scored 
by his toam and showed up romarkably well in all dopartmonts of tho 
game,
Tecli33. Gonova34.
Andorson ..................F.................... Schupo
Matter .................../.F.................. Hoclcert;
Millor .............................................................. ,.C. Wild
Gibson..........................()................... Hudson
Morhman ....... G..................... Hamilton
Substitutions. TocliMcOaw for 
Anderson,- Andorson for McCaw, 
Donahue for Matter, Mattor for Don
ahue, Mefort lor Miller, Miller for 
Goodwin, Mefort for Mohr man. Donahut for Mofort. GonovaMcCandless 
for Hockert, Lowls for McCandless,
Ileckort for Hudson, Hudson for 
Lewis. Goals from fieldAnderson 
4, Donahue 2, Gibson 3, Matter, Mil
ler, Shupe 5, Wild 4, Hamilton. 
Goals from foulMattor, 10 out of 
12; Donahue, 1 out of 3; 14 out of 
22. RefereeSlack. Time of quar 
ers10. minutes.
HERBERT REICH'S DEATH
CAUSED BY PNEUMONIA
The Freshmen basket ball team 
came through with a victory over 
Allegheny High School last Friday af! ternoon. This all goes to prove that 
we have a real Plebe toam this year. 
Allegheny has a team this year that 
ranks very near tho top of tho other 
high school teams in this section. Al
though Tocli took tho lead in the 
opening quarter and held it through
out tho gamo, tho scoro was always 
very closo. Tho final scoro was 24-22 
favor Toch. Lineup:
Tech Allegheny
Reiter.................. F. .. .McCall, Russell
Amans..................... F..................Johnston
Cook.......................... C.................McMahon
Burt...... G. .. .McCall, Ralph
Beede....................... G......................Rogers
Substitutions: Edio for Reiter;
Reiter for Edie, Edio for Cook, Gordon 
for Johnston, Cook for McMahon,
Johnston for Cook, Pivirotta for
Ralph McCall, -Ralph McCall for Pivi
rotta.
Field goals for TechAmans 6, 
Reiter 1, Cook 2, Burt 2. Field goals 
for AlloglionyRuss McCall 3, John
ston 1, McMahon 2, Rogers 2.
FoulsAmans 2 out of 4, Gorden 
5 out of 10, McMahon 1 out of 3. 
RefereeCrawford, Notre Dame.  
Final scoreTech 24, Allegheny 
High 22.
CARNEGIE QUINTET 
BESTS W. VIRGINIA
Anderson and Gibson Shine 
as Whole Team Fights 
For 29-28 Victory
RIFLE TEAM DEFEATS 
HARVARD, 493 TO 491
(Continued From Page One.) 
School. He was a member of tho 
Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity, and ac
tive in the Radio Club. His many 
friends here at Carnegie will remem
ber him as a man who stood high 
in his class, and who was a true 
friend to his associates and class
mates.
HEARD AND SEEN
HeThis storm may put the light 
out. Are you afraid?
SheNot if you take that cigarot 
out of your mouth.College Humor.
Mary had a little dog,
It was a noble pup.
For he stood on his front paws 
When you held his hind legs up. 
Muskingum Black and Magenta.
AFTER THE PROM IS OVER
The results of a prono match with 
Harvard last week scorod a victory 
for tho Carnegie Tech Rifle Team 
with a scoro of 493 to 491. Tho fol
lowing is the Individual scoring of 
tho mon on tho Tech team.
Ha m 111 ................................................. 99
N. Thompson ...................................... 99
J. V. Fostor ........................................ 99
I-Iauser ...................................... 98
Swanson ................................................ 9S
Damali .................................................... DS
K. B. Fostor ........................................ 98
Vana ..............i.......................................( Ml
Burgls ...................................................... 95
ho five highest individual scores 
went to mako up tho total scoro of : 
tho team.
The toam showed up woll consider
ing tho fact' that only ono weok of 
practice was had boforo tho match. 
It Is oxpoctod that koon competition 
to mako tho ri fio toam will bo In ovl* 
donco in tho futuro In view of tho 
fact that thore sooms to bo groator 
Interest In rifle shooting at Carnoglo 
Tocli this year than over boforo. Tho 
additional number of new mom bora 
enrolled Into tho lllle club at tho timo 
of tho mooting last Wednesday Is 
self evidence of tho interest taken in 
rifle shooting,
Tho rango Is located on tho fourth 
floor of tho Arts Building and Is open 
to tho club members on Tuesdays, 
Thursdays and Fridays at 4:30, Thoso 
who still wish to join tho Riilo Club 
Uhould roport on tho rango to tho ofllcor In cliargo.
ProfessorWhat lui I ho com
pound CIT20V 
25-Sea wator, air.
VENUg,
EKS"O
>38
POINTED ond othor M<a<il Poncila
"HE name VENUS is your 
- guarantee of perfection. 
Absolutely crutnblc-proof, 
i smooth ancl perfectly graded. 
7 DECREES 
213 soft SC black H mod. linrd 
B soft 2H hard
F firm extra linrd
HB mediumfor general use 
15c f>rr tube of 12 leadtf $1.50 per dozen tubes 
Ifyourclcnlercannotnupplyyouwritcui.
American Lead Pcncil Co.
215 Fifth Avc., Dcpc. , New York 
Atk lit about the new 
VENUS EVERPOlNTED PENCIL3
Before an eagor crowd that com
pletely swelled tho capacity of the 
Field House last Saturday ovonlng, 
tho Mountaineers bowed to the local 
boys in a nip and tuck scoring game, 
which ended in a hairs margin, 29 
to 2S.
General improvement of tho en
tire Carnegie basket hall toam made 
possible for them a well earned vic
tory over tho speedy delegation from 
University of West Virginia.
At tho termination of the initial 
fivo minutes after tho impartial ref
eree, Bolster, blew his whistle, tho 
homo toam had waged an early load 
of S to 1 over the visitors, but this 
rally was checked by tho accurate 
foul-shooting of Pierre Hill and Haw
ley, who soon found tho basket foi 
West Virginia.
Acting Captain, Jimmy Anderson, 
lost no time in sizing up his oppo
nents stylo of play, for it was ap
parent that close guarding of Hill 
and Hawley would be one determin
ing factor of the defensive, while tho 
teamwork of scoring depended entire
ly upon his own aggressiveness on 
the floor assisted by Gibson, who 
could generally bo found in an open 
position to receive and do tho neces
sary shooting.
With tho invaders on tho long ond 
of tho score, 17 to 15, at tho half, 
tho Skibo came back with a burst of 
pop and again pushed into tho lead 
by two goals credited to Anderson 
and Gibson alike. Somehow nolthor 
team had any luck at basket-making 
after many attempts, so at this stago 
of tho gamo much time was taken 
out and several substitutions wore 
made by both teams.
Only onco alter' the Tartan, quin
tet, regained the lead did tho visitors 
forgo ahead by two points. Is tho 
final stages of tho last half 
close guarding bocaino tho feature 
of tho gamo and Mohrman and Gib
son accounted well for themselves 
just whon tho blunt of tho scoro rodtet upon thoir positions at guard.
Mofort who covored tho center of 
the floor Tor Carnoglo was rho only 
tall man on the Plaid team who 
could BiicacssCully block passes ol 
the aoveral West Virginia slx-l'ooteru. 
Miller, who subsoltutod for Mofort, 
although a llttlo alow to move, helped 
out In the passing, especially when 
uiulor pressing emergencies of tho 
game. Donohue played a consistent 
gamo at forward and his work, la onjouraglng toward a permanent stay 
on tho flvo. 1 '
Although the gamo did not appear 
to bo exact In the technique of 
banket ball, no part of the contest 
Indicated u lack of action or provloua 
training for early season work. Tho 
caliber of playing' demonstrated by 
Conch Lublc'o fighting fivo during 
tho two auoccaslvo performances laat 
week, 'give evidence that a belter 
brand of cage and floor work may bo 
expeetqd in the many remaining 
game' on tho uchedule.
Lineup:
Carnoglo Tech29.
Went Virginia -28.
Anderson ...............F........................... Mill
Donahue ................F....................... Funk
Moffort ....................C.;................. Hawley
Gibson ....................G................. Bow ora
Mohrman .'.............G.......... Rohrabaugh
Substitutions: TechMattor for
Donahue, Donahuo for Matlor, Millor 
for Mefort. West VirginiaOliker 
for Funk, Funk for Olllcor, Bartoll 
for Funk, Oliker for Hill.
Field goalsAndersen, 7, Gibson 4, 
Miller, Hawley 4, Oliker 3, Hill 2, 
Funk, Bowers. Foul goalsAnderson, 
D out of 10; III11, 5 out of 11. 
Referee;Bolster.
Time ot halves20 minutes.
SmithReally, now, do you think 
that a mushy line like that goes?
VassarDont know, but I know 
darned well that it comes back. 
The Cincinnati University News.
immtmmmMmmmmsmmttmimBMMmmmtamimBntmttttu!#
Davies & Hughes
Oaklands Mens Store 
3615 Forbes Street Next to Strand Theater 
rtnmtHttttimiffltinnmtmtmwtitwmtmtittmnnfflttiittsmmittiaBHtifflmBroi
Jacques Dancing Academy f
New Term Starting 
BEGINNERS, MONDAY AND FRIDAY
Social with Good Orchestra, Wednesday & Saturday
Private Lessons Daily. '{
XEvening Classes are at 8:30
Do You Need Extra Courses?i
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correspondence. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
ImttfratUj of (Ejragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1923
Courtesy of /. C. S.
What chance have you
got against him?
IT was a cynic who said:Some men go to 
college. Other men study.
A slander l But yet there probably are college 
men whose bills for midnight oil are not large.
And there are men who left school in the 
lower grades who, along with a hard days work, 
put in long hours of study-spurred on by a 
dream and a longing.
Look out for them.
The achievements of non-college men in busi
ness suggest an important fact. Success seems to 
depend, not so much on the place where a man 
studios, as on the earnestness of the student.
But, granting equal earnestness and ability, it is 
still true that the college man lias the advantage.
Regular hours for study and lecture, the use ol' 
library and laboratory, the guidance of professors, 
contact with men of the same age and aspirations 
all these will count in his favor, if he makes the 
most qf them.
A big if. The new year is a good time to 
start making it a reality.
/ Published in \ 
the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what. ever helps the 
Industry.
Sind 1S69 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 2S of a series
LCLAN NEWS
PHILADELPHIA CLAN HOLDS
MONTHLY DINNER AT HOTEL
On Saturday evening, January 0, 
the Philadelphia Clan gathered In a 
well-appointed guest room of the Han
over Hotel for Its regular monthly 
dinner -and NUTNMMHAA mooting. After 
enjoying an excellently propared repat and ilnlHliIng tho lmlnoB affnlr 
of tins evening everybody mot every
one eine and nil Indulged In a general 
good time. Fortunately a piano wan 
on hand and Llpplncott and Exllne 
rcmlored all the popuilur airs while 
ovoryono joined In tho choruii.
Thoso proBont Included: C. A.
Mauror, M, E. Allen, Herman B. Nolinan, Mnx Freyd, Donald S. Harding, 
Frank E. Swindell, Lynn E. Exllne, 
P. W. Schmidt, W. P. Llpplncott, Paul 
W. Em mol, Walter II. Miller, C. M. 
"Stowart J. P. Bailey, RMMTAH DuvJh 
yid TAHA EIoIbo M. Mahan, FlorTnfc'C E. Langworthy and Dorothea E. 
Stolninaclior. Among tho goBtB wore 
Mr. Robert TTolmo Mrs. Lynn E. 
Exllne, Mrs. P. W. Schmidt and Mr. 
Donald S. Harding.
CHICAGO CLAN
On Saturday, January 20, tho Chi
cago Clun hold a luncheon at the UniverBity Club. There were twentyeight members present with Mr. McCaughey presiding. Tlioy had with 
them Mr. Burnside, who graduated In 
the fliBt class turned out in 1908, and 
members representing almost each 
mtccSsslve yar. The secretary stales, 
The mooting was very snappy and 
wo all agreed that v/e want tho Clan 
here to bo a real live organization and 
if tho pep shown today llv^s as it 
Bhould you can bet that inside of 
many months Chicago will give them 
all a run for thoir money."
The mooting was opened to inform
al disciiBsion and tho following ques
tions woro decided:
~ Ttfhplp Tech by paying alumni duOfj 
aiifl by keeping in touch with Tocli,
To liolp Tech by gottlng good stu
dents to go there.
To ask tho secretary of tho Alumni 
Federation to print in large typo in 
the Alumnus the fapt that we meet 
on tho third Saturday of tho month 
and that every Tech man is wolcomo 
whether here for a woolc. a day, a 
month or for only a couple of hours 
while on hi way to somoothor local
ity.
Banquet and Dance 
of N. Y. Clan, Feb. 3
Annual Affair to be Held in 
Colonial Room of Hotel 
McAlpin
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
Monday, January 15th, 1023,
Youngstown Clan of C. I. T. held thoir 
regular monthly mooting.
Election of ofllcors wan hold and 
after next month's mooting tho fol
lowing mon take charge of Youngstownn Clan:
President, Waller N. Flannagim,
You'vo heard the old Haying: 
"Everyone goos to Now York some 
tlime In Ills life;" or the other one: 
"If you want to meet an old friend 
whom you haven't soon ior^years, go 
to Now York. There Is no doubt that 
IhouHunds of cases could be cited, and 
Is It any-wonder? Tho "Llttlo Old 
Town" has an . irresistible power to 
attract and fasclnato, especially for 
thoso who have once boon lured and 
becomo enchanted. Those who are 
listed among her acquaintances are 
constantly, soarchlng to discover some 
plausible roason which will take them 
back again. Naturally this has the 
effect of increasing tho temptation 
and lowering tho resistance of those 
who have not participated in tho joys 
of her Boclal evenings.
That is why a great many Carnegie 
Tech Alumni and Alumnae will bo at
tracted to the fourth annual banquet 
and dunce of tho Now York Clan, to 
bo held in the Colonial room of the 
Hotel McAlpin, at Broadway and Thir
ty-fourth street, on Saturday evening, 
February 3, at 7 o'clock. The opening 
number on the program will be a dis
play of tho culinary arts of tho Mc
Alpin ohofs. When tho most healthy 
appotito of tho "farthest Alumnus 
has been appeased, there will be 
speeches by Dr. T, S. Baker, who is 
planning to bo present, and several of 
tho directors and trustees who are 
expocted. Thoro will also bo reports 
on student activity plans and alumni 
progress.
By tho time tho supply of physical 
energy of tho F. A. has been replen
ished an outlet for tills surplus will 
bo provldod In tho form of indoor caliBtlienlcs as practiced on tho modern 
danco floor. A good orchestra will bo 
provldod TH that you will not bo able 
to roBlst the muse, terpslchoro, and 
wlion 1. a. m. rolls around youll say. 
with much enthusiasm that last years 
affair couldn't hold a candle to this 
one.
A, soon as possible notify S. A. 
Smith, 20(1 West One Hundred and 
Sixth stroot, Now York, that you will 
bo thoro, and If convonlont, oncloso 
your chock to covor the number of
KlDfi Mahoning avenue, city.; Vico 
president, Ralph P. Woodward, 105 
Ciirroll stroot, city; secretary, L. D. 
Woodworth, mill Southern Blvd., city; 
hoard of control, 2 yours, .1. O. Solglo, 
.1304 Elm street, city.
It was also arranged that noxt 
months meeting bo hold when Act
ing President Dr. Baker makes Ills 
trip through tho West.
DONT READ THIS!
If you are an alumnus in good standing.
WE ARE ALARMEDYOU SHOULD BE
The Alumni Are Not Crashing Through
LOOK!
The table below gives an accurate picture of the situ
ation. Even with the graduating class of 1922 of about 
300 counted in there are fewer paid up alumni in 23 than 
in 22.
No. PnlcI Up I1 
1922Arts........................... 135
Industry............... 297
M.M.QC................. 329
Engineering.............. 704
r Cent Paid 
102240
32
56
51
45
No. Pulci Ur 
1923
113
267
272
6.14
THIS IS THE TIME FOR ACTION!
GET IT NOW! GET YOUR EREBNDS IN!
TECH NEEDS YOUBUT YOU NEED TECI1, TOO! 
Dont delaysend that dues check.
Make it payable to G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer
SALI; OF PROM TICKETS 
WILL CLOSE ON THURSDAY
The Alumni sale of tickets for the 
Junior Prom will be closed ort Jan
uary 25. The committee has been 
compelled to limit the number at the 
annual Prom and it will be impossible 
to continue tho alumni sale after the 
above mentioned date.
Tho Junior Prom will be held at 
the Hotel Schenley on the evening of 
February 2, 1023. Nelson Maples 
Orchestra will furnish the miiBic. The 
dance starts promptly at 0. The 
grund march will commence at 9:30.
If you intend to go to the Prom 
send your check to FnoB Johnston, 
care Theta Xi, 4902 Forbes street, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Make your chock 
payable to E. A. Berglund, treasurer. 
Tho price is $8.50. No money will be 
accoptod at the door.
Already a large number of the alum
ni have responded and the committoe 
hopes to hear from more before tho 
sale of tlckots its closed.
FOREIGN TOURS. OPEN 
TO COLLEGE STUDENTS
places you want reserved at $5 each.
There aro two classes of people In 
tho United States. Those who want 
to go to New York, and thoao who 
want to go to Now York again. Heres 
your opportunity to kill two birds 
with one Btono. Help mako tho ban
quet a big success. Soo you there!
Maggie"Tho gurbogo man is boro, 
sir."
Absent-minded ProfoBsor  "Tell 
him wo dont need any today." 
Muskingum Black and Magenta.
Students and instructors in Car
negie Institute of Technology are in
vited to participate in the Students 
Tours which have been organized for 
the coming summer under the general 
auspices of the Institute of Interna
tional Education.
The International Students Tours 
have been established as a non-com
mercial undertaking for the purpose 
of enabling American college students 
and instructors to travel in foreign 
countries at minimum cost, under dig
nified auspices arid under conditions 
which permit a .cloBe contact with the 
people and institutions of the coun
tries visited. They represent merely 
a new Application of the program 
which the Institute of International 
Education has been carrying out for 
many years In the direction of a 
closer international understanding 
through educational opportunitiesa 
program which in the past has been 
characterized by Biich activities as in
ternational exchange professorships 
and scholarships, the exchange of 
scholarly periodicals, and the promo
tion of tho study of international 
problems.
Dr. Stephen P. Duggan, the director 
of the Institute, in announcing the 
Students Tours of tho summer of 
1923, statod thoir purpose as folloAvs:
"The International Students Tours 
lmvo boon organIzod to nleet what I 
believe to bo a double need: the neod 
for travel as a broadening and vitaliz
ing olomont in the education of our 
young mon and women, and the need 
for travel as a moans of establishing 
a closor intellectual relationship betwoon tho youth of Amorlca and of 
other countries. They lmvo boon or
ganized to place tho bonollts of travel 
within tho roach of roprosentatlvo 
young Americans who In-a fow years 
will take a leading placo in tho in
tellectual and commercial life of tho 
United States, In tho1 belief that noth
ing contrlbutos moro to education and 
to an Intelligent ihtorest in interna
tional affairs, than does a personal 
acquaintance with tho history, tho 
traditions tho resources, and tho 
prObloms of other nations, which, 
taken altogether, make up national 
character and determine the course ol| 
international events.
"All foreign travel serves these 
purposes in greater or less degree. 
But to servo them to the greatest pos
sible extent, certain special conditions 
must be mettho support of foreign 
governifients and universities; the as
sistance of educators and men with a 
broad international outlook in this 
country; careful selection of the per
sonnel of the students groups, since 
their members will invariably be re
garded as representative of America, 
and, being representative, must rep
resent the best in American student
ship; the provision of instructors ca
pable of interpreting the countries 
visited in a broad and sympathetic 
fashion. It is to meet these condi
tions that the Students Tours have 
been organized under the sponsorship 
of the Institute of International Edu
cation.
Membership in the Students Tours 
is open to persons associated with in
stitutions of higher learning in the 
United States, either as students or 
as instructors, and to teachers in 
secondary schools.
Mombers of the Students Tours 
will sail from New York on June 30, 
1923, on the SS "Saxonia" of tho Cunard Lino, and will return on the same 
ship on August 24, duo in Now York 
on September 4. Calendar itineraries 
and all other Information may .bo se
cured from Mr. Irwin Smith, 30 East 
Forty-socoiul stroot., Now York City.
MISS HELEN M. BLACK, '21, DIES 
AT THE HOME OF HER PARENTS
Holon Margrotta Black, Margaret 
Morrison, 21, died at the homo of 
her parents, following an illness 
which had its start' last spring and 
which had conflncd her to her bed 
since. June, lloleu, better known to 
her school friends as Blackie, was 
keenly interested in affairs at Tech 
until the last. The week preceding 
her death she requested her mother 
to. send a contribution to the Kiltie 
Fund and a few days later asked that 
a dollar be sent to the alumnae treas
urer for the scholarship fund. The 
alumni and studejit body extend their 
sympathy to her family.
Dr. A. A. Hamerschlag GR m. ANDGMC HB EAIS 
9orms New Company :CMMS30:AMTS JSUR E
Made President of Henderson 
Corporation
A charter has just been issued to 
the Henderson Corporation, of which 
Dr. Arthur A. Hamerschlag, ex-presi
dent of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, has accented the presi
dency.
This newly organized Pennsylvania 
corporation has an authorized capital 
of $100,000. Its directors are: James 
L. Stuart, W. E. McKelvy, Laurence 
Henderson, Sr., Alfred B. Hine and 
Arthur A. Hamerschlag.
It is a holding corporation for the 
Henderson patents for precast, rein
forced concrete.
The inventor, Albert Henderson, is 
a graduate of the charter class of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
and was formerly associated with 
James L. Stuart and McKelvy-Hine 
Company of Pittsburgh; Lockwood, 
Green & Company, Boston, Mass.; 
the Foundation Company of Nest 
York, and Hugh L. Cooper, the fa
mous hydro-electric engineer on the 
Keokuk dam on the Mississippi river, 
his work involving fifteen years ac
tual Held practice in dam, reservoir, 
foundation and building construction.
The remarkable inventions which 
are covered by these patents will per
mit the electric light and telegraph 
companies to substitute sectional con
crete poles for the wooden poles now 
in use. Fences and posts in highway 
construction may be replaced, and a 
construction system by which col
umns and beams will eliminate wood 
forms and expedite the erection ,of 
fireproof structures, making these 
patents and this industry a promising 
contribution to Pittsburghs future 
place in this enormous field.
Let Us Add Your Name 
To List of Loyal Alumni
Here are the facts about the kilts: 
2,047 Students ....$1,500 
3,300 Alumni........... 200
$1,700
Although the Alumni body outnum
bers the student body by more than 
a thousand, the students have sub
scribed 80 per cent of the amount re
ceived for the Kilt Fund. Not so good 
for the Alumni. Send in your check 
now for any amount, to G. L. Tilbrook, 
troasurer, and add your name to the 
list below, which includes the contrib
utors for the last two weeks:
- Sarah Wellings, Edwin I-Iaub, David 
Henderson, James W. Phillips, C. A. 
Stono, F. W. Heclcort, Anna L. Gosset, 
R. H. Watt, Walter J. Blenko, John F. 
Maxwell, E, A. Butts, O. A. Dlcltman, 
II. J. McCorkle, Winifred Cramp, 
Cleveland Clan, John P. Melcher, Ray 
G. Bergstrom, C. J. Johnson, Twila 
Davis, Raymond M. Marlier.
Nurse: Well, its a girl."
Father (with keen foresight.:) 
"And I just sold the porch swing 
this morning."
The first real get-together of the 
year of the Margaret Morrison Alum
nae Association was held last Satur
day in the Little Practice House on 
Woodlawn avenue. This affair is the 
third of a series of events planned by 
the A8BOC,&tion, but as all of the oth
ers were i*1 *-he form of bake sales, 
etc., this proved to be their first op
portunity to get togdt-her for a social 
afternoon.
Tea was served with Miss Breed, 
Miss Brown, and Miss Abbott pouring. 
Miss Williams acted as hostess and 
was assisted by Jane Caldwell Harrohl, Genevieve Cushwa, Elizabeth 
Stevenson, Mildred Knapp, Laura McKnight, and Ellen Speers. About a 
hundred and fifty members and guests 
were present.
The Association Iras made plans for 
many affairs to be held in the next 
few months. The annual dinner-dance 
on February 14th, and the annual 
scholarship benefit on Saturday, April 
21, are being looked forward to with 
quite a bit of interest, but the novel 
Spring Style 'Show planned for March 
17 seems to be the center of inter
est on the program. The association 
has never held an affair of this kind 
but it is undoubtedly going to be pop
ular among the alumnae. Alberta 
Redenbaugh is chairman of the com
mittee planning the show.
The next get-together of the Asso
ciation will be held Saturday, Febru
ary 10 in the Margaret MorHson Rec
reation Hall and will be in the form 
of an all-day sewing bee.
Says the Sage of Science
Next weeks program: Sunday,
cram; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, exam; Friday, flunk; Sat
urday, trunk.
Had a pleasant surprise Tuesday 
morning. A janitor was washing some 
windows. (He quit at noon.)
This is a good time to ask your
self why you are here. Do you know?
Remember: Knowledge is power.
The guys who talk the least generally 
know the most.
Dont cram. Get a good nights 
rest, get up early, glance at your 
notes, and take a little walk in the 
fresh morning air. Then go in and 
fool em by passing.
THIS IS OF INTEREST TO THE 
SOPHOMORES
Carnegie Tech Sophomores may 
breathe a sigh of relief that they do 
not attend Vanderbilt University, 
Tennessee. After a great deal of 
discussion it has been decided that 
the Sophomores shall wear derbies 
with gold and black hat bands tor 
the duration of their Sophomore year.
ANOTHER VERSION
Frosh: Why do they put holes in
Swiss cheso, Pop?
Ills' Pop: Why the stuff needs
ventilation, son.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
JANUARY 24, 25, 26 AND 27
Cameraphone Theater, East Liberty...............Tartan Football Pictures
AVEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 24 AND 25
DramaYoure Next...................Arts Theater, C. I. T., 8:15 P. M.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Mens Junior Prom..................................,HQtel Schenley, 9:00 P. M.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3
New York Clan Annual Banquet and Dance.........................7:00 P. M.
Hotel McAlpin, Broadway and 34th Street,'New York City. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
Arts Ball.................................................College of Fine Arts, 9:00 P. M.
Post Ball Danee..
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10
..Arts Foyer, C. I. T.. 9 :00 P. M.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P.. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobaky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnertli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Bos 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., p.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Walfjee, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inciz Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEY.Secretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marccau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Technology.
SHARONActing, Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUIS-Acting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg,
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
142i! Wick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
in City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmithfleld 294
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital...........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop I
FOR YOUR HAiR CUTS j
Five Barbers at your service.  
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS. B
illllllllillllllilllllllllllllllllllllilllllll 
M Compliments M
m of 
I Skibo Inn I
ALUMNI PAGE
