Volume 87, Issue IOCarnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Former CMU student accuses 
CFA of discrimination, prejudice
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
In an article published in todays The
ater Week magazine, New York actor 
and freelance writer Dick Scanlan 
charges that the Drama Department at 
Carnegie Mellon discriminates against 
effeminate homosexual men and over
weight women. In addition, he is highly 
critical of the departments cut policy.
He decided to write the article when 
he learned that he was Hr/ positive. I 
dont want to die without having told the 
truth, he says, not just my story, but 
the truth. Thats what motivated the 
piece.
Don Marinelli, associate head of the 
Drama Department, had not received a 
copy of the article to review at press time 
but was asked to comment on accusa
tions Scanlan made in an interview with 
The Tartan.
He obviously was hurt by what hap
pened, Marinelli says. He wants to 
warn others that they may be getting 
into hurtful situations.
There is a mechanism to deal with 
these accusations. If these accusations
come forward, we would welcome an 
investigation to see if these charges are 
unfounded, says Marinelli. Im con
cerned. The one thing about the theater 
community is that everyone is seen as 
family. Ive always felt that the Drama 
Department is a family, and that 
Scanlans charges could tear the family 
apart.
Scanlan says that when it came time 
to cut students at the end of their sopho
more year, gay men and overweight 
women were the first to be singled out.
He says there is definitely an atmo
sphere of homophobia in the depart
ment. He says that he talked to a num
ber of recent CMU graduates and cur
rent students, and that when he asked 
them about homophobia, they laughed 
or agreed that it was there.
Not that much has changed," he says, 
although it may not be quite as preva
lent.
Scanlan attended CMU from 1979 
until 1981. He was one of a number of 
students dropped that year by the de
partment on a day he calls Bloody Mon
day.
Of the 32 people in my sophomore
class, 16 were asked to leave, Scanlan 
says, and every one of them was an ef
feminate homosexual or an overweight 
woman.
Marinelli says that anyone entering the 
acting profession should be prepared to 
face rejection. No one would get into an 
election without realizing that you may 
not win, he says. [If you go into acting] 
youre going to hear no quite a bit. The 
latest statistics indicate that 84 percent of 
all professional actors registered with Ac
tors Equity are unemployed at any given 
time.
At some point, we do expect our faculty 
to be as reality-based as possible with our 
students, says Marinelli. If a student is 
overweight, this may limit the roles that 
they can play. I would view this as an 
appropriate [area for] comment. It is the 
Drama Departments duty to be as forth
right as possible. It is going to limit your 
chances for roles.... [If we were] to say 
nothing, to pretend that these things didnt 
exist, we would be remiss in our duties.
On the other hand, if the comments were 
meant to ridicule a student or hurt their 
self-esteem, Marinelli says, we would 
Please see CFA, page 5
Professor challenged 
as counterfeiter
By BETH MACDONALD
Tartan Staffwriter
J.S.G. Boggs is many things  
artist, professor, lecturer, member 
of the CMU Studio of Creative In
quiry, fellow of Art and Ethics at the 
University  and now the United 
States Secret Service is giving him 
yet another label: counterfeiter.
On October 1 of this year, Boggs 
was notified by a friend that Secret 
Service agents were in town looking 
for him. Rather than wait for them 
to show up on his doorstep, Boggs 
went to their office in person. He 
was carrying two books with him 
that included writingabout his work, 
and these were confiscated by the 
agents. In return, Boggs was given a 
receipt for contraband.
Boggs work includes the examina
tion of currencies from the United 
States, as well as France, Australia, 
England, Switzerland, and other coun
tries. He does not reproduce bills; 
rather, he reproduces the look of the 
bills with variations in the details. 
Most of the bills are one sided, but
when he does also draw the back of a 
bill, he will draw a slightly altered
Korry Hagan/Tartan Photographer J.S.G Boggs lectures to his art class.
version. For example, with a U.S. bill, 
he will draw the Supreme Court build
ing so that it faces a different way than 
it does on the real bills. He may add 
his signature in place of the signature 
of the Secretary of the Treasury, or 
replace the traditional inscription, 
Please see BOGGS, page 4
Inside
Classifieds...............................12
Comics......................................L4
Diversions...............................L9
Features...................................LI
Forum..........................................6
Sports...........................................9
Calendar................................L14
Vox Populi............................L14
---------------------------
Anne Lopez/Tartan Photographer Jennifer Braun coxes CMU novice womens four: Vlckl Roberts, Andrea Harley, Jenny Hwang, and Emily Ricketts row on the water.
 Case Western University 
sucks.
 We interview Pittsburgh 
Penguins center Ron Francis.
See page 11
 Diversions previews the 
eight-hour Nicholas Nickelby.
See page L9
See page 8
 Virtual reality seems to hit 
CMU.
See page LI
Robotics Institute postpones 
Mount Erebus expeditionBy STEPH STINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Robotics Institute's Mount Erebus project, 
originally scheduled to be launched November 10, 
has been postponed. This setback occurred early 
last week due to a failure in one of the robots 
welded joints.
NASA representatives came to Carnegie Mellon 
last Tuesday to view a demonstration of Dante, the 
eight-legged rappeller/walker destined for Mt. 
Erebus in Antarctica. While the robot was 
rappelling down the slag heap, it became evident 
that there was a problem with the welding of one of 
Dantes legs. This difficulty can be fixed fairly 
easily, but until it is, the project cannot be ap
proved. Consequently, the date of departure for 
California en route to Antarctica will continue to 
be pushed back.
Another change in the projects plan was the
elimination of Virgil, a transporter robot. Virgil 
was created to carry Dante from the Antarctic 
coast to the top of Mt. Erebus, according to an 
article in Science News magazine. Basically, time 
and manpower constraints caused VirgilB comple
tion to be postponed.
Regardless, Matt Arnold, Chemical Engineering 
senior, pointed out that the NASA representatives 
were still overwhelmed by the rapid progress of 
this project. Arnold, the first undergraduate to join 
the project at CMU and a member of the mecha
nism group, noted that the Mt. Erebus project was 
conceptualized less than a year ago. He attributes 
its timely completion to a lot of late nights on 
behalf of the staff. Having ample connections aided 
the progress of the project as well.
The Erebus project is headed by William 
Whittaker, principal scientist ofthe Robotics Insti
tute and James Osborn, project supervisor. Its 
Please see EREBUS, page 4
9 November 1992
THE TARTAN
oencHe seats
remain empty
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
& FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Staffwriter
Twenty-two seats are open in 
Student Senate, the organization 
that represents the student body 
and allocates the Activities Fee, 
but only 10 people have handed 
in petitions for office. This means 
that Senate will once again be 
full of vacancies in almost every 
college after the election, and that 
fewer people than are required 
by Student Body Constitution 
and Bylaws are representing the 
student body.
According to Shawn Knight, 
chair of Senate Public Relations 
and Human Resources Commit
tee, there are three seats open in 
CFA, three in GSIA, six in CIT, 
two in the Heinz School, one in 
IM, two in SCS, two in MCS, two 
in H&SS, and ono miscellaneous 
seat. Matt Morrow, freshman 
drama major, and Moneot Singh, 
senior architecture major, are 
running for the CFA seats. David 
Byler, a CIT freshman, junior 
mechanical engineering major 
Jonathan Kline, and junior ECE 
major Gregory Haverkamp are 
running for CIT. Knight, a sopho
more physics major, and Yaman 
Fadl, an MCS freshman, are run
ning for the MCS seats. Ann 
Kopchik, a junior English major; 
Dawn Walhausen, a freshman in 
H&SS; and Seth Halvaksz, a jun
ior Social Sc Decision Sciences 
major, are running for the H&SS 
seats.
No one is running for any of the 
seats in GSIA, Heinz School, IM, 
SCS, or the miscellaneous seat. 
Of the colleges with candidates, 
only H&SS is under competition, 
there being only two seats be
tween the three candidates: Kop
chik, Walhausen, and Halvaksz.
Not all Senate seats are in con
test this election. Those seats 
filled by Senators elected in the 
Spring of 92 will be up for elec
tion next semester.
Knight attributed the large 
number of open seats to a greater 
number of vacancies held over 
from previous semesters and 
more seats due to increases in 
enrollment in some colleges. Seats 
were added in CIT, CFA, and 
GSIA due to enrollment informa
tion from the rogistrnr. Knight 
also cited lack of interest in Sonate from students qualified to run 
for offico as well as apathy to
wards Student Government from 
the student body as a whole. In 
order for Senate to got people's 
attention wo have to piss people 
oft/' said Knight.
Kline concurs, citing the booth 
and buggy legislation in the by
laws as an example of how stu
dents dont pay attention to Sen
ate unless they make them an
gry. Said Kline, I think that Sen
ate may not do a lot of earthshaking things, but [we] do con
trol the Activities Fee and how 
thats spent."
Kopchik and Walhausen, who 
are running to fill H&SS seats, 
arO both concerned with olimiPlease soo SENATE, pago 4

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992
THIS JUST IN...
Experts forecast the impact of President-elect Clinton
FormeCme MUstCem uUdCna rMMtncA stdrcCUmA 
fCco FoCmri ,pAACr rmj Prurmi Ara rmrdaAcA
hmrdaAcA Ara jUltAcCn uUdCna cU gt rMMtnctj 
ga FdCmcUmRA CmctsrncCUm fCco mtf FUmestAA
WASHINGTON, November 5 
(DJ)  Democrats in Congress 
woke up with a mandate for 
change  and a host of new col
leagues and old problems for 
which they will now be respon
sible, The Wall Street Journal 
reported.
. The turnover in Congressmem
bership in January will be his
toric. At least 110 new House 
members and 11 new senators 
won seats Tuesday  more than 
in. any election in four decades. 
Whats more, the results will 
unite control of the White House 
and both chambers of Congress 
under one party for the first time 
since Jimmy Carters presidency. 
\ But the situation now is vastly 
different than in 1976. Congress 
is a far less confident, far more 
battered institution than the one 
ttyat so frustrated Carter.
This years newcomers repre
sent an unprecedented infusion 
of women and minority-group 
members but also greater expe
rience in state and local politics 
than the Watergate babies of the 
1970s. A surprising number of 
incumbents survived, but voters 
in a number of states nonetheless 
served notice of their displeasure 
by overwhelmingly approving 
iimits on congressional terms.
; After a year of anti-Washing
ton politicking, the mission of the 
newcomers and veterans alike is 
to make government work rather 
than to compete with a hostile 
White House. And after more 
than a decade of divided govern
ment these Democrats know that 
their partys future is on the line.
Well get the credit or the 
blame, says Rep. Charles 
Stenholm, a conservative Texas 
Cotton farmer. Its up to us. For 
piinton, this situation presents 
both opportunities and peril.
Theres a certain sense of ex
citement about it [unified gov
ernment] because weve known 
gridlock and weve known the 
jjlamo game, says House Budget 
Committee Chairman Leon 
Panetta of California. Id much 
rather have our party have clear 
Responsibility, so you can face 
membors and say, Dont give me 
the same old arguments. Get in 
lino. 
Clinton will have a more recep
tive audience for his legislative 
agenda and especially for a mod
erate economic package. Yet his 
success also will depend that 
much more on making progress 
on intractable problems such as 
the deficit and health care before 
the next great political hurdle for 
Congress  the midterm elec
tions of 1994.
Clinton is change, and this 
class will follow, says Tony 
Coelho, the former House Demo
cratic whip. But almost from the 
outset, the new administration 
will face a balancing act between 
its desire to stimulate the 
economy and the latent fiscal con
servatism that ran through the 
campaigns of many Democratic 
newcomers this year.
Democrat Karan English, who 
beat a Christian Right Republi
can to capture Arizonas new seat 
in the House, appears at first 
blush to fit the moderate liberal 
label. Yet the 55-year-old state 
legislator was endorsed by no less 
than Republican conservative 
icon Barry Gold water, and she 
promises to support a constitu
tional amendment mandating a 
balanced budget. Virginia state 
legislator Leslie Byrne, another 
House Democratic newcomer, fits 
the same mold. And in the Sen
ate, Ben Nighthorse Campbell 
kept a Democratic seat in Colo
rado but represents a step back 
from the more liberal voting 
record of his predecessor, Sen. 
Timothy Wirth.
Just having so many new mem
bers may be good news for deficit 
reduction, says Carol Cox Wait, 
president of the nonpartisan 
Committee for a Responsible Fed
eral Budget. The deficit issue 
could be joined as early as next 
spring. By declaring a budget 
emergency under the federal bud
get law, the new President would 
be able to waive spending caps 
that restrict the public works in
vestment he wants. But advo
cates of the balanced-budget 
amendment will then want to 
promote their agenda.
Proponents fell just nine votes 
short of the required two-thirds 
majority in the House this year, 
and the congressional leadership 
and Clinton administration may 
have little choice but to give way.
By next March, the new Con
gress is slated to vote to raise the 
federal debt ceiling, andlawmakers must also confront long-de
layed legislation next spring to 
replenish funds for bailing out 
insolvent thrifts.
All told, Senate Democrats 
held on to their current 57 seats, 
and could pick up a 58th if Geor
gia Sen. Wyche Fowler survives 
a runoff later this month. The 
Democrats will retain at least a 
78-vote edge over Republicans 
in the 435-member House. With 
the outcome of a few races still in 
doubt, the Republicans scored a 
net gain of only about 10 seats in 
the Housefewer than experts 
in either party predicted.
Much as it did in the 1982 
elections, California proved a 
bulwark for Democrats. Their 
House losses earlier in the 
evening were tempered by their 
gains on the West Coast. The 
result is that the balance of power 
in the two chambers will change 
only marginally. But underneath 
this stability, two clear power 
centers are emerging in the 
party. One is represented by the 
traditional conservative-to-moderate swing votes like Stenholm, 
whose support will be crucial to 
Clintons legislative success. 
Stenholm says he is eager to 
work with the President-elect to 
dispel the notion that Democrats 
are just tax-and-spenders. I cer
tainly want to be part of the 
team that gets the deficit down, 
he says.
By the same token, Im not 
going to be content sitting back 
anticipating promises to do so 
from my leadership.
But equally important  and 
still undefined  is the impact 
of the new coalition of women, 
black and Hispanic members in 
setting the partys agenda on 
such issues as health reform. 
The combined strength of the 
House black and Hispanic cau
cuses will grow by nearly 50%, 
and Rep. Mike Espy, a soft-spo
ken black attorney who first 
broke into Congress from 
Mississippis Delta just six years 
ago, could be the next chairman 
of the Agriculture Committee 
subcommittee overseeing cotton, 
rice and sugar.
WASHINGTON, November 5 
(AP)After 12 years of Repub
lican rule in the White House, 
people around the world wonder 
how the election of Democrat 
Bill Clinton as president will 
change their nations relations 
with the U.S.
Some fear greater protection
ism, some worry about U.S. sanc
tions because of their human 
rights policies, and many are 
concerned that Clinton will lose 
sight of them as he gives priority 
to U.S. domestic problems. Here 
are three reports on the post
election mood in China, Russia 
and Japan.
Since the June 1989 killings 
in Tiananmen Square, President 
Bush has argued that by trad
ing with China and encouraging 
U.S. private investment there, 
America can weaken the Com
munist old guards grip by help
ing to increase the wealth of 
Chinese citizens and exposing 
them to Western ways.
But Democratic congressional 
leaders have consistently criti
cized Bushs policy, saying it fu
els an economic boom that keeps 
Chinas dictators in power and 
fails to stem human-rights 
abuses.
Now, Clinton, who has echoed 
the critical rhetoric of Congress 
but has offered no detailed China 
policy, will have to sort all this 
out. And he is certain to discover 
a dilemma much more complex 
than the Washington debate 
makes it seem.
Since the collapse of the former 
Soviet Union, analysts say, the 
U.S. has been uncertain whether 
to view China from the geopo
litical, Cold War angle or to fo
cus on the increasingly impor
tant bilateral trade relationship. 
After 14 years of economic re
form, China is well on its way to 
becoming a world economic 
power, as well as a formidable 
competitor and customer for U. S. 
business.
The conventional wisdom in 
Beijing is that Clinton may have 
little choice but to calm Con
gress with rhetoric while con
tinuing the policies of Bush. If 
the President-elect takes a hard 
linefor example, by canceling 
Chinas most-favored-nation
(MFN) trade status or attaching 
human-rights conditions when 
the MFN status is up for renewal
 he would anger Japan and 
other U.S. allies in Asia, who 
would prefer to keep politics and 
economics separate. Such actions, 
analysts say, also could destroy 
U.S. business prospects in China.
Once Clinton is in the White 
House, he will have to face real
ity, said John Hart, president of 
the American Chamber of Com
merce in Beijing. If he wants to 
create jobs and build the Ameri
can economy, he needs to keep 
good relations with China.
Asian cross-investment is now 
so intertwined that Clinton would 
be hard-pressed to penalize China 
economically for human-rights 
abuses or unfair trade practices 
without rocking the economies of 
U.S. allies in the region.
In Russia, President Boris 
Yeltsin has endured a sometimes 
tense relationship with President 
Bush. But now that Bill Clinton 
is preparing to move into the 
White House, there already is 
nostalgia in the Kremlin for the 
Bush era.
In the end, Bush acted almost 
like a lobbyist for Russia, espe
cially in coordinating interna
tional economic support, says 
Andrei Kortunov, one of Moscows 
leadingU.S.-watchers. Clintons 
election surely makes the people 
in the Kremlin a bit nervous.
Many Russians expect MoscowWashington relations to slide into 
a six-month cooling-off period 
once Clinton takes office. He is 
thought likely to focus so in
tensely on domestic issues that 
Russia could become an after
thought.
Officially, the Russian govern
ment called for continuity in its 
relations with Washington. There 
is a lot at stake. Russias reform
ers need plenty of outside sup
port  financial, technical and 
spiritualif they are to weather 
the onslaught from conservative 
opponents who hope to turn the 
clock back on economic and po
litical liberalization.
Sergei Stankevich, an advisor 
to Yeltsin, expects a vacuum in 
high-level Russian-American con
tacts early next year, a time when 
many expect political friction in
side Russia to worsen.
Wednesday Yeltsin sent 
Clinton a congratulatory tele
gram. We hope that the new 
U.S. administration will continue 
to actively support Russias re
forms, the message said.
But a spokesman for Yeltsin, 
Anatoli Krasikov, conceded that 
some disruption in ties is likely; 
We understand that it will take 
the new administration some 
time to work out its foreign policy 
line, Krasikov said. ^
Just hours after Clintons elec
tion, Russias legislature ratified 
the strategic arms reduction 
treaty with the U.S., a major ac-> 
complishment of the BushGorbachev era. The treaty, which 
calls for cuts of a third in the U.S.. 
and former Soviet arsenals of 
long-range missiles and bomth 
ers, was ratified by the U.S. Sen
ate last month.
Many Japanese fear the change 
in Washington will complicate 
U.S.-Japan ties, a relationship 
that often seems defined by the 
size of Japans trade surplus.
Most Japanese have for 12 
years viewed the White House as 
a bulwark against a protectionist 
Democratic Congress. After hear
ing Clintons tough talk during 
the campaign, few here expect 
that defense to stand firm, even 
though the president-elect may 
be more of a free-trader than 
many Democrats.
But the Japanese do see a siln 
ver lining. Americas recession 
hurts Japan too, and authorities 
in Tokyo have felt frustration with' 
President Bushs devotion to free-; 
market principles; in Clinton, 
they see a kindred spirit not shy, 
about using government indus-i 
trial policies to manipulate mar-! 
kets and stimulate the economy.
Japanese officials also havehopes of developing a more so-; 
phisticated partnership with; 
Americas new leader, going be-; 
yond the parent-child relation
ship that has evolved little since 
the U.S. occupation after World! 
War II.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc. 
Layout by 
Matt Adler
SPRING 1993
REGISTRATION WEEK
bIhExSN EG,1N9 3TTk FOhEE ELhLwEy
GRADUATES4TH/5TH YR 
SENIORS
JUNIORSSOPHOMORESFRESHMAN
(EXCEPT CIT/MCS)
ALL OTHERS
vSN-hH 
NSD.vIx, 3W
vSN-hH 
NSDxvIx, 3W
LwxE-hH 
NSDxvIx, 38
2x-NxE-hH 
NSDxvIx, 3:
LBw,E-hH 
NSDxvIx, 3T
.,1-hH 
NSDxvIx, 05
All students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) should register during Registration Week I) they wish to enroll for Spring 1993. If you won't be returning 
(for reasons other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked "Spring 1993") to the Registrar's Office, 
Warner Hall 201.
All currently enrolled students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration 
process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make corrections and submit the form to the Registrar's Office (if there are no changes, keep the form). 
Reglstration/Add/Drop forms and the Spring 1993 Schedule of Classes will be available at the Sklbo Information Desk, outside the CFA 
Dean's Office and Inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall. CIT/MCS freshmen will receive Instructions for registration from 
their dean's office.
HOWTO REGISTER
1. Pick up a Spring 1993 Schedule of Classes and a Reglstration/Add/Drop (RAD) form.
2. Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor's approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not 
be processed.
3. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) In which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM. 
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD. 
Remember that if you are on a "wait list" for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved).
4. Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a "pre-registration" prior to Registration Week. They'll send you instructions if necessary.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 19923
Crime and Incident Report
10/31 SIMPLE ASSAULT,
3:30 am. A CMU student com
plained to Campus Police that he 
had just been pushed into the 
street by a group of four females 
and two males in front of Ham
burg Hall. The student, who was 
riding his bike at the time, was 
not injured. The student said that 
the group was headed towards 
Pitt, but a search of the area 
proved negative.10/31 THEFT, 9:36 pm. ACMU 
student reported to Campus Po
lice that the Nebraska license 
plate on his car had been stolen. 
The student was unsure where 
the plate.had been stolen. The 
student was advised to contact 
the Pittsburgh Police, at which 
time the student stated that he 
already had and was given an
other number to call. He called 
the other number and did not get 
an answer.10/31 SIMPLE ASSAULT, 10:57 PM. Two CMU students 
walking down Devonshire from 
Centre Avenue became aware 
that they were being followed by 
three males. The three asked the 
students the time, and were told 
that it was 10:50. Becoming ner
vous, the students turned onto 
Bayard Street, and headed for 
Morewood Avenue. The three fol
lowed and began to try to trip the 
students, insult them with racial 
slurs, and ask them for money. At 
this time one of the students was 
wrestled to the ground, and man
aged to break away. The other 
student was also kicked in the 
back. One of the three produced a 
shiny object from his pocket. The 
students then escaped by run
ning to Morewood Avenue.11/1 THEFT ,12:56am. ACMU 
fraternity member notified Cam
pus Police that someone had en
tered his room and stolen his CD/ 
cassette player with a CD inside. 
Player and CD are valued at $317.11/1 MEDICAL ESCORT , 
2:35 am. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU fraternity 
member who had rolled out of the
top bunk bed onto the floor, pos
sibly breaking his nose. The fra
ternity member was transported 
to Presbyterian Emergency 
Room.11/1 MEDICAL ESCORT ,11:25 am. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
was complaining of a sharp pain 
in the lower right side of his 
abdomen. The student was taken 
to Presbyterian Hospital.11/1 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION, 2:41 pm. Responding to a 
report of graffiti in the CFA el
evator, a Campus Police officer 
arrived to find the word BUSH 
spray painted in dark blue let
ters. The S in this word had been 
replaced by a swastika. After 
photographing the graffiti, the 
officer painted over the swastika.11/1 MEDICAL ESCORT , 12:15 am. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU fraternity 
member who had called, com
plaining of a laceration on his 
forehead. The laceration occurred 
when the member was hit on the 
forehead by a can of beer which 
had been thrown across the room. 
The fraternity member was trans
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.11/1 VIOLATION OF LIQUOR LAWS, 12:39 am. While 
on routine patrol, two Campus 
Police officers noticed open con
tainers of beer outside of a CMU 
fraternity house. The students in 
possesion of the containers were 
both students at Duquesne Uni
versity, and were both given cita
tions.11/1 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 2:49 pm. 
A female CMU student reported 
a phone call from an unknown 
male. The caller was talking about 
wetting his pants and wearing a 
diaper. The student was advised 
to report any further calls.11/1 MEDICAL ESCORT , 8:21 pm. ACMU student reported 
that his friend, who was not a 
CMU student, had fallen down 
the Mudge C tower steps. The 
victim, who was lying at the foot
of the stairs upon Campus Police 
arrival, was complaining of numb
ness and problems moving her 
left arm. She was transported by 
Pittsburgh Medic #1 to Presbyte
rian Hospital.11/1 MEDICAL ESCORT , 8:22 PM. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
had been accidently stuck in the 
upper left arm with an X-acto 
knife. The student was sneaking 
up to scare his friend who had 
been working on a project with 
the knife. The student was trans
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.11/1 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 9:53 pm. 
A CMU student complained of a 
phone call in which the caller 
repeated an obscene phrase. The 
student had also received a mes
sage of a similar nature on his 
answering machine the day be
fore.11/2 MEDICAL CALL, 6:53 
pm. A medical escort was pro
vided for a CMU fraternity mem
ber who had incurred a lacera
tion on his head. The laceration 
was incurred when the member, 
while playing soccer on the sec
ond floor of the fraternity house, 
hit his head against the wall while 
attempting to hit the ball with 
his head. The fraternity member 
was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital.11/2 MEDICAL ASSIST, 7:57 
pm. Campus Police responded to 
a Medical Assist call on the Tech 
fields for a CMU student who had 
twisted his ankle while playing 
soccer. The victim was trans
ported back to his residence.11/2 THEFT, 10:58 pm. While 
studying on the third floor of Hunt 
Library, a CMU students atten
tion was drawn by the rusling of 
papers. The victim looked up to 
see an unknown male depart from 
beside the cubicle where she was 
studying. The victim checked her 
bookbag and found that her wal
let had been stolen.11/3 MEDICAL ESCORT, 12:42 am. A medical escort was
Pocket Professional Software
Plug-In Textbook
Expand the power of your HP 48SX calculator. 
Access equations, formulae & technical data instantly!
 Calculus
I Electrical Engineering 
I Mechanical Engineering
 General Chemistry
 Statistics
 Mathematics
 Physics
 Spice48
 Solid State Electronics
 Celestial Navigation
hDh1OhIOx hL HSw, FSOOx9x ISS6ELS,x 
S, FhOO 3K:55K:08K:!3W bx^L 0"SparcomA COKl'Olt M'lON
The Alpha Kappa Chapter 
ofALPHA EPSILON PI
Congratulates 
The New Brothers 
of
The Epsilon Deuteron Pledge Class
Ido Ben-Shachar 
Daniel Calle 
Arik Cohen 
Reuven Goren 
Michael Harris
Reid Hecker 
Paul Karlin 
Steven Marks 
Jeremy Toeman 
William Trost
provided for a CMU student who 
had been in a bicycle accident. 
The accident occured at the in
tersection of Margaret Morrison 
and Tech Streets when a car made 
a sudden u-turn in the street. 
The accident occured two hours 
before the student requested 
transportation. The student was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos
pital.11/3 INSTITUTIONAL VANDALISM, 12:59 am. Responding 
to a report of fire in West Wing, a 
Campus Police officer found that 
a newspaper had been set fire in 
the hallway outside of the West 
Wing desk. Also, a sign marked 
fire door, keep closed located on 
the fourth floor of the east stairwell was found singed.11/3 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 
4:30 am. The desk attendant at 
GSIA reported that he had let an 
unknown person into the build
ing, only to see this person on the 
monitor a few minutes later, leav
ing by the back door, carrying a 
large filled garbage bag over his 
shoulder. The attendant said that 
the bag was not dragging as if 
there were something heavy in it. 
The possibility that the person 
was carrying a bag of aluminum 
cans was checked, but the first
floor and basement can collec
tions were intact.11/3 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION,11:40 am. 
A CMU student reported a call 
from an unknown person. This 
person asked the student if she 
ever wet her pants and if she 
wore a diaper.11/4 NOISE COMPLAINT, 2:26 am. Campus Police received 
numerous complaints that per
sons at a CMU fraternity house 
were banging pots and pans to
gether. Upon arrival, Campus 
Police found that the noise had 
ceased. Twenty minutes later, 
there were more calls regarding 
the noise which the Campus Po
lice dispatcher could hear over 
the phone. The residents of the 
house were informed that if the 
noise continued, the house would 
receive a CMU citation.11/4 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATIONS, 9:30. 
Campus Police received a report 
of harassment via telephone. The 
harrassment victim said that she 
had received a call in which the 
caller asked Will you talk to me 
while I wet my diaper? The vic
tim also stated that this is the 
second call of this nature she has 
received.
11/4 INDECENT EXPOSURE, 12:54 pm. Two CMU stu
dents, while sitting on the bench 
outside the Wean Hall patio, were 
the victims of indecent exposure 
when a male with dark balding 
hair exposed himself to them. The 
man then began to make ges
tures towards his genitals and to 
knock on the glass window. After 
the students ignored the man, he 
left the area.
Compiled By MIKE WALKER
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief, the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, and suspects 
and fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con
text of a complete description .
 Noteveiy incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Correction...
Last week, in the Features article Republican students work to re-elect Bush Kevin Boyle's 
major was given incorrectly. He is a double major in industrial management anti economics.
In last weeks Features story Time editor discusses predictions lor election, the first lull 
paragraph should have readDespite thedepressingnumber of scandals this election Ims spawned, 
Cloud still characterizes 1992 as the most extraordinary political year in my memory. 
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, contact Tartan Editorin-Chief Heidi Hoover at x2111, or write her in care of The Tartan, Slcibo GO.
We call him Project Manager.
Ojas rare problem-solving ability earned him 
great admiration when he became a chess 
champion in grade school.
Today, his intelligence, drive and uncom
mon insistence on doing everything well make 
him one of our outstanding Project Managers. 
Employees like Ojas are typical of the univer
sity hires we value at Oracle. We provide an 
outlet for their talents few companies can 
match.
We are the largest supplier of DBMS soft
ware and the third largest software and ser
vices company in the world. We provide total 
systems solutions through database, tools, 
applications and services. Our products run in 
more than 100 computing environments and 
are utilized in 92 countries around the world.
After 15 years, our successful technologi
cal and market leadership is directly attributed 
to the talents and contributions of our people.
ORACLE
Make your vision tomorrow's technology."'
At Oracle, youll work with individuals whose 
vision and personal commitment to excellence 
will play a leading role in shaping information 
technology beyond the 90s.
We are interested in individuals with tech
nical degrees for positions in Software Devel
opment, Technical Support, Product Manage
ment and Consulting. Send your resume to 
Larry Lynn, Oracle Corporation, 500 Ora
cle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, 
CA 94065. FAX (415) 506-1073 or 506- 
7732. E-mail address Islynn @ us.oracle, 
com. Or, call Lindsay White Quintero at 
(415) 506-5060. We are an Equal Opportunity 
Employer.
On-campus 
Interviews:
Meet with Oracle Representatives on 
November 11 & 12
Contact your Placement Ollke for details.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992
Carnegie Mellon in BriefSenate race suffers from 
lack of new participants
SENATE, from page 1
nating discrimination in Student 
Senate and providing more com
munication between Senators 
arid students. We recognize that 
there seems to be a lot of prob
lems with communication be
tween the students body and Sen
ate, so were both interested in 
trying to see if we can find a way 
to eliminate that problem and 
get a lot more communication go
ing between the student body and 
our constituency, says Walhausen.
Singh adds that Student Senate is in need of personnel in 
human resources. Singh says, 
Traditionally, Senate has been 
dominated by a few people on the 
floor who really have the tone for 
every semester, and that is an 
unfortunate thing because it 
causes an inconsistency. Singh 
also says that he wishes to see 
Senates Human Resources Com
mittee separated from the cur
rent Public Relations/Human Resources Committee. He says, 
Thats too much work for one 
person to do, and it needs to be a 
separate committee because of
the way it encounters the prob
lems that Senate has.
I have a feeling that this time 
around, the voting turnout is not 
going to be very high, says Singh.
As Public Relations chair, 
Knight says he is always trying 
find solutions to the vacancies 
and apathy towards Senate.
Im really interested in get
ting more ideas on how to get 
mor people involved, said 
Knight, who also urges students 
to write in candidates for empty 
seats, if they know someone who 
is interested or qualified.
GSIA bars buggy participants
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Buggy teams accustomed to spending cold Pitts
burgh mornings in the warmth of the GSIA build
ing will have to look elsewhere for shelter, the 
building manager said last week.
Rosalie Pirigree, GSIA building manager, de
cided to prohibit buggy teams from warming them
selves inside the building during early morning 
practice after the front desk attendant reported 
mischievous conduct and alleged minor thefts by 
fraternities using the front lobby.
Pingree said shes ready to reopen the building to 
buggy teams if they can ensure the incidents will 
not happen again. Whenever they want to meet 
With me, my doors open, said Pingree. Pingree 
reported the situation twice to the Sweepstakes
chair, Alexis DePlanque, and requested that the 
students, whom she suspected were members of 
the fraternity Pi Kappa Alpha, be disciplined.
DePlanque met with representatives of the fra
ternity, who denied the incident.
Pi Kappa Alphas Ted Yip said members of his 
fraternity were not involved, and he can prove it. 
We are willing to show a [complete picture] of our 
fraternity to the desk attendant and whoever was 
there.
Im willing to talk to her or anyone else to try to 
clear up any problems ... though anything we talk 
about would probably take effect in the spring, 
said Yip. Next weekend will be the last one this 
semester for buggy freerolls, which will resume in 
late February. Yip said he planned to meet with 
Pingree early this week to discuss reopening the 
building to buggy teams.
Professor labeled counterfeiter
BOGGS, from page 1
This Note is Legal Tender for All 
Debts, Public and Private, with 
his own inscription, This Note is 
Legal Art for All Those Who 
Agree, See?
; He makes his bills by first draw
ing or painting them with acrylic 
aftd/or ink. Then he runs his draw
ings through a computer, alters 
them slightly, and prints them 
out on a Cannon Laser Copier.
! Boggs does use his money in 
exchange for goods and services, 
but he make it clear to the person 
involved that they are getting a 
work of art, and not hard cash.
I The problem that the Secret 
Service has with Boggs lies within 
the U.S.. Statutory Code 18, sec
tion numbers 474 and 504, which 
make it illegal to produce any
thing in the likeness or simili
tude of U.S. currency.
Boggs case has since been 
passed on by the Secret Services 
Counterfeiting Division to the 
U.S. Attorney for the district of 
Pennsylvania, and now Boggs 
must wait, along with his 11 law
yers, to hear the final determina
tion that will decide if he will be 
arrested or left alone for
It is illegal to depict currency in 
anything but black and white, 
and in sizes either 50 percent 
larger or one-third smaller than 
actual size. Boggs art depicts bills 
both in color, and at actual size.
According to Boggs, When the 
legislation was drafted, the 
thought of fine artists depicting 
money was never considered.
Charges of counterfeiting are 
anything but new for Boggs. In 
the past, he has been arrested 
and put through counterfeiting 
trials in both England and Aus
tralia.
As for the United States, he has 
spent the last six years in what 
he terms, discussions with the 
Secret Service. In the beginning 
of his dealings with them, Roy 
Nedrow was the head of Coun
terfeiting for the Secret Service. 
They had what Boggs termed a 
gentlemans agreement. He says, 
[Nedrow] understood and liked 
my work, and as long as I didnt 
cross over and start really being 
a counterfeiter, he would leave 
me alone.
Boggs admits that he has ex
perimented with producing exact 
replicas of money. He once even
printed up about a million dol
lars worth of bills that were so 
close to exact that if you held 
them next to a real bill, you 
couldnt tell which was which. 
However, thats not what Boggs 
is about. He says, Real counter
feiting doesnt carry the right in
tention, part of my work relies on 
the difference, and so he burned 
the bills.
When Nedrow was promoted, 
William Ebert took over his old 
job, but not Nedrows agreement 
with Boggs. Ebert, whom Boggs 
describes as most unreasonable 
sees Boggs work as not art, just 
crime.
As for the other agents, Boggs 
says, They look just like you 
would picture: sort of like accoun
tants for an insurance agency, 
and that about 12 of the hundred 
or so he has dealt with over the 
years are reasonable.
The rest he describes as, just 
like cogs in a machine who cant 
think beyond You are a counter
feiter, you are evil, you must be 
prosecuted.  However, of the 
more reasonable ones, he says, a 
couple of them even own my 
work.
NrcRd EnC .UpmjrcCUm MpmjA Fvw AnCtmcCAcA 7
Engineers and computer scientists at CMU and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) 
working on environmental modelling have received $1.5 million from the National Science Foundation 
(NSF) to further their research.
The grant is part ofthe NSFs Grand Challenge program, which ftmds research projects developed for 
use on high performance computers and networks. It amounts to $500,000 over the next three years.
The research team includes Armistead Russel, an associate professor of mechanical engineering 
Bemd Bruegge, an assistant professor of computer science, Peter Steenkiste, a research computer 
scientist, all from CMU. From MIT is Greg McRae, a professor of chemical engineering. The grant is to 
be put towards research and development of air pollution models and computational environments to 
better understand air quality problems in urban environments.
Weve been devloping computer hardware and software solutions for handling all of the science that 
goes into looking at and understanding atmospheric problems, said Russel. What is unique about our 
approach is that it takes advantage of the rapid advances in both the hardware and software 
components of the computing environment as well as advances in our knowledge of the atmosphere."
6ruur ECelr oUmUsA dUnrd Fvw noructs
The CMU chapter of the Kappa Sigma was the recipient of several awards from the national Kappa 
Sigma fraternity. Among these awards were the Kappa Sigma Outstanding Brotherhood Developmest' 
Award, the Campus Involvement Award, the Intramural Participation Award, and the Founders Award 
for Chapter Excellence. All awards were presented to CMUs Delta Alpha chapter on August 1 at the., 
Boston University Leadership Conference in Boston, Massachusetts.
CMUs Kappa Sigma chapter was selected out of 220 continental chapters to receive these awards,
Also, two memers of CMUs chapter were selected as recipients ofthe 1992 Outstanding Grand Master  
award. Recipients were Kappa Sigma alumnus Thomas Melia (Biology, 92) and Thomas Stachura, a 
senior ECE major.
Compiled by, 
KENDRICK K.CHUAProblems halt Antarctica mission
are a part ofthe joint NASA/NSF 
program to use Antarctic analogs 
in support of the Space Explora
tion Initiative.
To this point NASAs funding 
of the Mt. Erebus project is close 
to $2 million. NSF will contribute 
transportation and other key 
support, according to a Space 
News magazine.
Essentially, the mission will in
clude Dantes descent to the lava 
lake inside Mt. Erebus, its collec
tion of samples and data, and its 
ascent back to the surface.
An article in the August, 1992 
issue of Mechanical Engineering 
magazine states that the descent 
and ascent should each take abouf' 
24 hours while the trip inside tie 
volcano will last eight hours.
EREBUS, from page 1
goal, according to a press release 
by the Robotics Institute, is to 
explore Mt. Erebus, an active vol
cano in Antarctica, using Dante. 
Past human attempts to study 
Mt. Erebus have been hindered 
by the volcanos frequent erup
tions. Dante will enable research
ers to study the volcano without 
risking human life.
In effect, the mission has a dual 
purpose. The study of the volcano 
will open a window to the center 
of the earth, said Arnold. Dante 
is capable of collecting and ana
lyzing gas samples as well as mea
suring lava temperatures. Fur
thermore, this mission serves as 
a precursor to lunar and Martian 
exploration, because Antarctic
terrain surrounding the Mt. 
Erebus crater resembles the sur
face of the moon and planets in 
our solar system. Additionally, 
Dante is equipped with a tether 
and an innovative laser scanner. 
The tether allows Dante to lower 
itself into the crater as well as 
communicate with the base sta
tion. The laser scanner, as describedby CMU Public Relations, 
can sense the terrain surround
ing the robot more broadly than 
conventional scanners.
This is where NASA as well as 
the National Science Foundation 
(NSF) became involved.
The Robotics Institute press re
lease, co-authored by Whittaker 
and Osborn, indicates that this 
project will achieve goals thatSAVE 
$3.00 !
on your next haircut 
(regularly $16.50 - $20.00)
Offer good Monday through Friday, 
9am-3pm with select stylist.
Please bring or mention this ad. 
May not be used in conjunction 
with any other offer.
Expires; 11/21/92
LEWIS
HABR
SALON
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
682-4063
Chance
Seniors....
This is your LAST CHANCE to get 
your portrait taken for the 1993 year
book.
531 seniors have already had their 
pictures taken. Don't get left out of 
your yearbook  it's quick, it's easy, 
and it's FREE.
To sign up for your sitting, you can see 
us at the dates and times below:
Thursday, Nov. 5 10 am - 4 pm 
Friday, Nov. 6 Table in front of Doherty
Monday, Nov. 9 9 am - 5 pm 
to Fri., Nov. 13 Skibo 45 (Senior Pic Room)
Call x2121 with questions..
And another thing....
You still have time to get your 1993 yearbook at a discount. We're sel ling the 1993 
book for just $19.93 until December 1. After December 1, the price of the 
yearbook will be $25. This dat is firm and the discount will not be extended again. 
To order your yearbook, see us at the dates and times above or stop by our office, 
Skibo 46A. Payment by cash, check, MasterCard, and Visa are accepted.
The Thistle is funded by the Student Activities Fee.
$19.93

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 19925
Former CFA student makes accusations
CFA, from page 1
immediately say to the faculty 
member, this is wrong. 
Beth Caton is acting head of 
psychology at Bellevue Hospital 
in New York City and was cut at 
the same time as Scanlan. I was 
kicked out with no explanation, 
she says.
Scanlan charges that the 
Drama Department not only cut 
students who were gay but then 
falsified their transcripts. The 
grades were changed in some 
cases from Bs to Ds, he says, so 
that the University would be jus
tified in expelling the students. 
One student in his class, he says, 
was expelled from CMU and at
tempted to enter New York Uni
versity. According to Scanlan, 
NYU accepted her conditionally 
because she said her grades 
werent accurate but that she had 
to fly to Pittsburgh three times to 
get the Registrars Office to cor
rect them. He says that those 
students who started legal pro
ceedings against the University 
were reinstated but refused to 
come back.
Caton says that she had a 3.68 
QPA her last semester at 
Carnegie Mellon and that on her 
final transcript, her grades were 
changed to Ds.
Thats a hell of a statement to 
make, Marinelli says. It implies 
a maliciousness that is completely 
antithetical to anything dealing 
with the arts. We in the depart
ment find the accusation offen
sive.
According to Scanlan, They 
would get comments on their 
evaluations like, you are riddled 
with homosexual personal man
nerisms, you have a weak phy
sique ... that will prevent you 
from having an acting career. 
Scanlan is critical of the 
departments cut system in gen
eral. Under the system, he claims 
more students are admitted than 
the University has the intention 
of graduating. Theyre accepted 
fraudulently, he says. They ac
cepted 42 freshmen, but they 
knew damn well that they were 
only going to graduate 20. One of 
the main reasons that students 
are cut, he says is that the de
partment knows that it doesnt 
have the resources available fi
nancially to support all of the 
students enrolled.
Scanlan says that many other 
drama schools, like Julliard and 
Yale, have abandoned the cut
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY
LOWEST PRICES-NO RISK-TOP BRANDS-REESE, M&M, HERS HEY,AND MORE....CALL FOR DETAILS & BROCHURE
PleaasCFA, lpg5K llo 673-4406
HAIR CUTS EVERY DAY$10 
CIMINI
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
1 BLOCK AWAY (OFF FORBES AVE.)
621-4247
The University f Pittsburgh Department of Theatre Arts presentsI_______
Ina 
rticleby Caryl Churchill
7Lot lUAc AcClpdrcCmei lU#Cme 
cotrcst((( Cm atrsA(7
BUfrsj 6CAAtdi )
The Rover
by Aphra Behn
A routing Restoration 
comedy of wil and intrigua.
system which he calls traumatic 
for drama students.
He claims that the department 
is reluctant to change because 
the cut system has been in place 
for decades. Hazing was legal 
too, he says, and so was the Ku 
Klux Klan.
Scanlan feels that anyone who 
enters the drama program ought 
to be given the chance to com
plete the program. The people 
who write the checks ought to be 
the ones who call the shots, he 
says.
Marinelli says that no conser
vatory gives its students a guar
antee that they will graduate with 
a degree.
We have no indication that 
Julliard has abandoned the cut 
system, Marinelli says. I have 
not spoken to anyone at Julliard, 
but none of my colleagues that I 
have talked to have given any 
indication that Julliard no longer 
asks students to leave. CMUs 
Drama Department is a member 
of a group of four conservatory 
schools of drama in university 
settings known as the Consor
tium of Conservatory Theater 
Training Programs.
Furthermore, says Marinelli, 
Julliard admits half as many 
students as CMU or any other 
conservatory school. Most of the 
students that they take are older 
students who have been out in 
the field and working. The mean 
age of their students, as well as 
their experience, is older and 
higher.
Marinelli noted that he had only 
been with the department since 
1981, and thus did not feel quali
fied to comment on anything that
transpired before that time.
He says Scanlans comparisons 
are not direct comparisons. For 
example, Yale is an exclusive 
master of fine arts program that 
is known for accepting students 
that are very mature. Its not a 
program for undergraduates, he 
says.
Scanlan says that the main 
problem with the department is 
that the people teaching drama 
are out of touch with todays world 
of acting. He cited the example of 
a young woman who he says was 
cut because she was overweight. 
The teacher claimed that shed 
never get any good roles. Scanlan 
quotes him as saying, Youll 
never play Juliet [in Romeo and 
Juliet.]
I said What about the role of 
Juliets nurse?  Scanlan recalls. 
Theres room for so many differ
ent types of actors. They shouldnt 
be concerned with their students 
future careers, just about teach
ing them.
[Weight or mannerisms] are, 
first of all, things that no one 
would bring up, Marinelli says, 
although someone may say that 
in terms of performing in a par
ticular role, they may not be the 
mannerisms that exude the char
acter that you are playing.
In addition, Marinelli says, As 
far as his statement that we, the 
faculty, should not worry about 
our students future careers, we 
fundamentally disagree.
Livingin Pittsburgh, they have 
no idea what is going on in the 
acting world, Caton says. Its 
their ignorance that keeps them 
out of touch with reality. Its their1 
inability to see beyond peoples
differences to their talent. In any 
profession, there is a natural se
lection process. Whether or not 
someone is overweight or effemi
nate does not say whether or not 
they will work [in the theater]. 
The damage [that cuts cause] 
in general is great, says Scanlan. 
Its a dangerous thing to do to a 
20-year-old.
Caton feels the same way. 
People 18 or 19 years old place 
their trust in authority. In the
ater, what you produce is so 
closely tied to who you are that 
when your work is attacked, it is 
as if you are attacked.
Most homosexuals have al
ready gone through a lot to get to 
the age of 18, Scanlan says, suf
fering, teasing, abuse, and soci
etal pressures. And then to criti
cize their mannerisms.... You 
cant say to a gay man, stop act
ing gay, and not expect him to 
take it personally. Its the es
sence of who they are.
Scanlan says that he knows 
people will question his motiva
tion in writing the article, but he 
says he has a highly developed 
sense of justice. I fundamentally 
dont like it when people do things 
that are wrong, he says.
Scanlan wrote the article to 
warn high school students think
ing about entering CFA of the 
dangers of the cut system. Thats 
why I wanted the article in The
ater Week," he says, "because most 
high school drama students read 
it.
Marinelli says that once the 
department has a chance to read 
the article, they will respond with 
a letter to the editor of Theater 
Week.
Police chase thieves
By KENDRICK K. CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A pursuit involving most of 
the on-duty Campus Police re
sulted in the apprehension of 
two teenage car thieves on cam
pus around 1 pm Friday.
According to Chief of Campus 
Police James LaPaglia, Cam
pus Police officer Sharon 
Hutchins was stopped by a stu
dent around 1 pm who had seen 
some suspicious persons driv
ing in a Buick along Circuit 
Road. Hutchins went to investi
gate by driving her patrol car 
around to Westinghouse Pond 
where she saw the car in ques
tion. The two boys in the car 
jumped out and ran for Flagstaff hill when they aaw 
Hutchins car approach.
All Available on-duty cam
pus police officers wore called 
in to pursue the boys on foot. 
The boys ran from Flagstaff 
through the Cut, out onto the 
Mall andinto Wean Hall. Cam
pus police continued the chase 
over many floors of the build
ing before finally cornering and 
apprehending the car thieves.
Before the chase began in 
earnest, Hutchins had noticed 
at the time the two boys fled 
the car that the steering col
umn of the Buick was forced 
open.
The boys are aged 14 and 15, 
and are students at Taylor 
Allderdice High School.
THE SEARCH IS NOW ON! 
MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA5 PAGEANT
NS Gx,.S,v1N9 LhOxNL ,xw1,x1M aUp rst rm ruudCnrmc foU 4prdCMCtA rmj rst 
gtcfttm cot retA UM 3: rmj pmjts 08 ga .tgsprsa 
3( 3TT!i mt#ts lrssCtj rmj rc dtrAc r ACq lUmco 
stACjtmc UM GtmmAad#rmCri copA nUddtet jUsl 
AcpjtmcA rst tdCeCgdti aUp nUpdj gt GtmmAad#rmCrA 
stustAtmcrcC#t rc cot FIE mrcCUmrdda ctdt#CAtj vCAA 
wEh? Gretrmc 1m .tg(i 3TT! cU nUlutct MUs U#ts 
055i555 Cm nrAo rmj usCtA( Lot vCAA 
GtmmAad#rmCr wEh? Gretrmc bUs 3TT! fCdd gt 
ustAtmctj 1m cot 9srmj IrddsUUl UM cot Grdrnt 1mm( 
vUmsUt#Cddti GtmmAad#rmCr( vrsno 30i 3k rmj 3!i 
3TTk( Lot mtf vCAA GtmmAad#rmCr wEh? rdUme 
fCco ots tqutmAt urCj csCu cU nUlutct 1m cot vCAA 
wEh73 Gretrmci fCdd stntC#t U#ts 0i555 1m nrAo 
Cm rjjCcCUm cU ots lrma usCtAi hdd eCsdA 1mctstActj 
1m nUlutcCme bUs cot cCcdt lpAc #tmj r stntmc 
AmruAoUci gsCtM gCUesruoai rjjstAAi rmj 
uoUmt mplgts cU
v1EE GxNNEHODhN1h wEh Gh9xhNL
n*U L,1 ELhLx Bxh-wh,Lx,E ' -xGL( FI wEh* 
k!8 OSFwEL hDxNwx/A\
FormeCMUsCt uo dnacdAaaff i,p
nliip Tri-State Headquarter* Phone In 412/225-5343 5i3
MEMBER Application Deadline In December 19, 1992
v1l USA' Pageant It part of the family of GrsrlUpmc FUllpmCnrcCUm!i Inc. 
vCAA GtmmAad#rmCr wEhR 1A h Frs#Usm GsUjpncCUm

i
II
i
II
i
I
III
II
J.R Morgan Recruits on Campus this Fall.
(amlinuedfront lasL year)
J.P. Morgan seeks under
graduates with potential to
become part of the Morgan 
team that provides sophisticat
ed financial services to corpo
rations, governments, finan
cial institutions, institutional 
investors, nonprofit institu
tions, and wealthy individuals 
throughout the world.
If youre interested, 
watch for recruiters from J.P. 
Morgan who will soon con
duct information sessions on 
campus. Meanwhile, read on.
hm U#ts#Ctf UM 
P(G( vUserm
J.P. Morgans business is 
complex, and the role we fill 
often crosses organizational 
and geographic boundaries, 
but broadly speaking the 
financial services we provide 
include the following:
 Strategic advice: We are a 
leading financial advisor, 
counseling our clients on the 
financial implications of cor
porate strategy and structure 
and executing transactions 
such as mergers, acquisitions, 
and divestitures. Morgan is 
especially strong on cross-border transactions, taking advan
tage of our global presence 
and international depth.
Financing and capital 
raising: We are experts on 
raising capital for clients using 
all major financial instruments 
including equity and debt 
underwriting, loan syndica
tions, and private placements, 
in all major markets in the 
United States, Europe, and the 
Asia/Pacific region.
 Trading and risk manage
ment: Our business often 
requires transactions in the 
capital markets, where stocks, 
bonds, and other instruments 
are launched and traded. 
Morgan is a major participant 
in world markets, as a market 
maker (matching buyers and 
sellers) and as a position taker 
(managing shortor long-term 
risk positions).
 Securities processing and 
information services: We 
deliver a wide range of opera
tional services to our clients, 
handling a variety of needs 
from helping them track securities portfolios to managing 
cash on a global basis.
 Asset management and 
private banking: Morgan pro
vides large investors - such as 
pension funds, insurance com
panies, and wealthy individu
als - with sophisticated, glob
al investment management.
 Research: Morgans busi
ness activities are supported 
by a strong research capabili
ty. In some cases, dedicated 
research units support specific
business areas, such as our 
Financial Advisory
Department, a group of com
pany/industry specialists with
in our Corporate Finance 
group. In addition, the firms 
Global Research group proLoCA CA r urCj rj#tscCAtltmc(
vides a full range of macro
economic analysis and securi
ties and other financial instru
ments research.
To be continued at an upcom
ing information session.
Do career opportunities still 
exist on Wall Street?
They do at J.P. Morgan, a world leader in global finance.
We offer exceptional career opportunities for the highly 
motivated graduaLe in auditing and financial management, 
corporate finance, global technology and operations, internal 
consulting', sales, trading and research.
You dont need an educational background in finance to 
succeed at J.P. Morgan. Successful candidates will receive 
extensive on-the-job training. This training includes special
ized programs that help develop requisite business knowledge 
and technical skills, and introduce the ethics, culture and 
team orientation that distinguish our firm.
Attend our upcoming information session. Watch for the time 
and location on campus. J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated,
60 Wall Street, New York, NY 10260-0060.
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan
JPMorgan
November 2 - 22
Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre 
8 pm Tues.-Sat.; 2 pm Sun.LCnktcA WK: W0!KGOhH

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Empty seats indicate 
student body apathy
Ten people are running for nine . seats out of 22 open seats in Student Senate, the governing body that determines how our Activities Fee money is spent. After the elections today and tomorrow, 13 of those seats will be empty unless the student body overcomes its apathy and decides to run write-in campaigns.Vacancies in Student Senate have been an ongoing problem. We would think that at a selective school like CMU, many of the incoming freshmen each year would have taken part in student government in high school, and therefore have an interest in student government at college. We would also think that with recent Senate issues like last years referendum on the Resolution Against Discrimination by ROTC at Carnegie Mellon, the controversy this fall over the funding of the Voices United Gospel Choir, and the contentious discussion of the new bylaws for the student body which is going on right now, that maybe somebody would have taken notice of Senate, good or bad, and decided to get involved.Also, Senates Public Relations and Human Resources Committee has been working very hard with advertising and aggressive attempts at getting people to notice and perhaps run for Senate. Butinthe end only 10 people turned in petitions, and of those 10, nine are incumbent Senators  only one will be a new
face at Senate meetings.Whether Student Senate does anything to make you angry or not, it ultimately and always controls the way the Activities Fee is spent. All students who are enrolled for 19 or more units pay the Activities Fee, which is in effect a tax on the student body. Student Senate allocates this money to student organizations. If your college has vacant Senate seats, you are under-represented.Senate makes and controls the bylaws and other legislation that govern the student body. All students are included under the bylaws, which define the relationship between Senate and the student body, and how members of the student body are represented. We will be left unrepresented if the seats in our colleges are unfilled during deliberation over issues that directly affect us as members of organizations and as individuals.No one is running for any of the seats in GSIA, the Heinz School, Industrial Management, the School of Computer Science, or the Miscellaneous seat. Six seats are open in CIT with only three candidates.If you havent voted already, you might want to write in someone that you think would do a good job of representing your college when you go to vote in Grey Matter tomorrow. And no one can stop you ifyou decide to write yourself in.Just get involved.
Allegations necessitate 
drama investigation
In this weeks Theater Week magazine, an article written by former Carnegie Mellon drama student Dick Scanlan appears. In this article, Scanlan takes the Drama Department to task for what he claims was an active policy of discrimination against effeminate gay men and overweight women during the 70s and 80s.Scanlan alleges that he was among many students cut from drama because of either their sexual oiientation or their physical appearance. His article claims that students who were cut for these reasons later found that their Carnegie Mellon transcripts had been altered to give the appearance of a justifiable reason for cutting a student.In one case Scanlan refers to, a female students grades were allegedly lowered from a 3.68 QPA to grades of D in her classes.If these allegations are true, this is a revelation of one of the most reprehensible events in Carnegie Mellon history. Even if this is not true, it remains a huge public relations problem for the University, which must be dealt with as quickly as possible.The possibility of such insidious discrimination and duplicity on the part of the Drama Department cannot be ignored. President Robert Mehrabian and the Human Relations Commission must launch an immediate investigation into this matter,
Letters to the Editor
Student claims article 
was useless and petty
on
Otccts cU 
cot xjCcUs
so that it can be resolved as soon as possible.But merely starting an investigation will not solve the problem. The results, positive or negative, must be made public as soon as they are available, so we are all aware of the actions of the department, which we support through our tuition.If the allegations turn out to be true, the University must offer a formal apology to all former students affected by discriminatory cuts. The Drama Department itself should then be purged of any faculty and staff who can be proved to have taken part in such disgusting activities.There must also be checks on the departments cut policy in the future so that even the suspicion of such activity can be avoided  the University cannot afford to compromise its integrity.If, after a lengthy and complete investigation, the Human Relations Commission reports to the University that Scanlans allegations are unfounded, immediate steps must be taken to minimize the public relations disaster that will swiftly overtake the Drama Departments reputation.In addition, the cut policy of the Drama Department must be investigated and reworked, perhaps to include a procedure for explaining to students why they have been cut, so that current and future students do not also feel they have been the victims of cruel, discriminatory cut policies.
Editor:
The article [Poli Sci 
professor picks Clinton 
to take Presidency, 11/
2] was a waste of valu
able newsprint. Pat
rick Stroh offered no great insight or 
wisdom at all; neither now nor earlier in 
the campaign.
In the fall edition of the H&SS news
letter, which came out sometime in Sep
tember if I remember correctly, he did 
not want to venture a public guess of 
who was going to win. Why? He is the 
head of the political science and a profes
sor of the ilk. Therefore, it follows that 
he should have some divine insight into 
politics that few of us laymen have. With 
todays polling technology, it is hardly 
difficult to call an election within the 
last week. As long as nothing major 
happens the polls dont usually lie. When 
was the last time anyone was surprised 
by election results? Not in my lifetime.
I dont need political science to read 
USA Today\ A real insight into politics 
could have told me weeks or even months 
before an election the direction it was 
taking and could venture a probable 
guess based on current information. 
Stroh did nothing of the sort. He prob
ably read USA Today like the rest of us.
To further his show of incompetence, 
he says in The Tartan, ... Its extremely 
unusual for a third party to successfully 
enter in. Really? Weird wild stuff. I did 
not know that. Isnt this age of informa
tion so informative? Yo McFly ... any
body home?
Come on people. Who are we trying to 
fool?
Justin Klemmer Sophomore, H&SS
Carnegie Mellon needs 
new University Center
in daily life. By including features at
tractive to most members of the campus 
community, we might begin to achieve a 
sense of unity here that makes it a place 
people want to be. The facilities you call 
on the administration to eliminate  
like athletic facilities intended almost 
solely for recreational usearent perks; 
theyre vital to the mission that has been 
chosen by the group of students, admin
istrators, faculty, and staff that created 
the program for the University Center.
There are twenty-two other building 
projects for which plans were created 
but which were never actually built in 
the history of this school. Two of those 
projects were student centers, another 
was a set of proposed additions to Skibo. 
The University must take an admittedly 
difficult position about whether the 
University Center is going to be built. 
The administration must announce a 
start date  for the building, not just 
. the tennis courts  and stick with it, or 
it must acknowledge that the Univer
sity Center will become number twentythree on the list of projects never built. 
To continue to allow the University Cen
ter an uncertain future will endanger 
students trust in the administrations 
commitment to quality of life.
Michael J. Ewedosh Fifth Year Scholar, IM
GSIA needs to be more 
concerned with students
on1er to the Editer Tartan bo Hall SO
Otccts cU 
cot xjCcUs
Editor:
Your editorial last 
week (We want a prac
tical University Cen
ter, 11/2) brought 
needed attention to the 
University Center (or lack thereof), but 
Carnegie Mellon cant afford to settle for 
anything less than the building as it is 
planned.
Your editorial vaguely calls for a build
ing that isnt much more than a new 
and improved Skibo. The University 
Center was designed to serve the func
tions that Skibo does now as well as to 
address global issues affecting quality of 
life.
First and foremost among these issues 
is the splintered community that exists 
at Carnegie Mellon. The Universitys 
biggest asset is the great variety of people 
here, yet this is usually never appreci
ated because there are seldom opportu
nities for interaction with people other 
than those one normally interacts with
Editor:
These are troubled 
times for GSIA. The 
school has been in turOccI* cS 
moil for a couple of 
years now, and the latthe Edltor 
est Business Week ranking shows yet 
another slide.
The dean held a meeting with the 
masters students a couple of days ago. 
They expressed their discontent: disap
pointing curriculum, bad courses, poor 
coordination, too much work, too much 
pressure, too little attention to their 
needs. One woman gave her view of the 
problem: I did go tell Prof. X that his 
lectures were hard to follow. But how 
many of you did the same? Too few 
students, she felt, had the guts to walk 
into a professors office and voice their 
complaints.
I disagree with the woman. She put 
too much emphasis on individual action. 
There are situations, such as those in 
which a problem affects a group of indi
viduals, where acting collectively is bet
ter than acting individually. The right 
response to bad curricula and overwork 
is to decide on a line of action as a group, 
pick representatives, and send them to 
demand action from faculty and admin
istrators. Student representatives who 
have the support of their peers are likely 
to be much more effective than lone 
rangers trying to change the world.
It occurs to me that the coming to
gether as a group to decide what to do 
and elect representatives who speak for 
the group is at the root of democracy.
Surprisingly, its the citizens of a coun
try with such strong democratic tradi
tions who have difficulty putting democ
racy to work.
Maybe its because democracy requires 
discipline. Democracy demands that the 
minority support the majority once  
choice has been made, that one speak for 
all, that members of the group restrain 
from playing heroes on their own. De
mocracy requires giving up some indi
vidual freedom. To me, this looks like a 
small cost compared to the benefits col
lective action can bring. But the cost 
must seem much larger to people raised 
in the ethos of pioneers and self-made 
millionaires. Confused by the individu
alistic philosophy that permeates this 
society, Americans often pass by the 
benefits of democracy.
Not surprisingly, those who are in a 
position of power do nothing to encour
age the democratic process. When faced 
with requests for action from students 
upset by the suicide of their classmate, 
the administration responded offering 
individual counseling. In need of a few 
token PhD students for a meeting with 
outside consultants, the head of the pro
gram quietly found some of his protgs 
and sent them as representatives.
Its the age-old divide et impera, di
vide and conquer. Elected representa
tives carry more weight than isolated 
individuals, and pose a bigger threat to 
authority. Its in the best interest of the 
powerful to encourage individualism 
instead. If the powerless wait for their 
support and approval, they only play 
their game.
Giovanna Prennushi Graduate Student, GSIA
Student has praise for 
Campus Police response
Otccts cU 
cot xjCcUs
Editor:
I am writing this let
ter to the editor to ex
press my appreciation 
of CMUs Campus Po
lice.
A few weeks ago I broke my leg and 
Campus Police was called by a friend. I 
was very surprised at the speed the 
officers arrived and, even more than 
that, the great amount of help they pro
vided. Even on a Friday night when 
they hardly have a five-minute break, 
they were very patient and understand
ing and did everything in their power to 
make sure I received all the help I needed
In particular, I would like to thank 
Officer James Taylor who quickly trans
ported me to Presbyterian Hospital and 
made sure that I was properly attended 
to before leaving.
Campus Police is a department thatis 
very much under appreciated. As stu
dents, we should realize that Campus 
Police is here to protect and help us and 
not to just give us a hard time about 
alcohol and noise violations.
Amit Shah Sophomore Math/CS
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no extra cost to the members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, IncSubscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right 
to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writers address and phone number 
for verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 350 words. The Tartan Editorial 
Board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 19927
Presidential mandate misrepresents public
/?   
R.D. Quinn
It is astonishing how everyone 
wants to talk to you after your 
candidate loses an election, just 
to rub it in a little. I still find it 
hard to believe that we will have 
a president named Bill Clinton. 
As it starts to sink in, I realize 
how my viewpoints will be repre
sented in Washington even less 
than previously. I suppose after 
twelve years I will have to face 
the role of supporting the ousted 
party, but, after all, it will only be 
for four years.
If having the candidate you 
support lose an election is not 
painful enough, there is the post 
election talk of mandates and 
proclamations of a new era. De
spite the medias hype, Bill 
Clinton does not have a mandate 
from the American public. Clinton 
received 43.7 million votes, Bush 
38.1 million, and Perot 19.2 mil
lion . Over 5 7 million people voted 
against Bill Clinton, a difference 
of over 13 million people between 
those who voted against and those 
who voted for Clinton. Clinton 
had less than half of the voters 
support. It may be hard to define 
exactly what constitutes a manChristian M. Restifo
Last Thursday, the United 
States imposed a 200% punitive 
tax on European white wines. 
According to The New York Times, 
the price of a $9.50 bottle of wine 
could climb to almost $30. Ifyoure 
a big fan of such spirits, dont 
start worrying yet. The tax will 
not take effect for 30 days. Be
sides, you have a great deal more 
to be concerned about.
The General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade (GATT) talks 
came to a halt last week. These 
rules, which affect 108 countries, 
govern world trade. The reason 
for the breakdown was disagree
ment between the U.S. and the 
European Community (EC) con
cerning agricultural subsidies. 
Members of the EC have threat
ened to retaliate against the U.S.s 
decision with their own tariffs, 
setting the stage for a trade war 
f enormous proportions.
date, but I am sure this is not one.
Critics will argue that the num
bers are simply a matter of se
mantics, but I believe it very im
portant for the Democrats to un
derstand what the American pub
lic really said last Tuesday. If 
most Americans really believed 
in Clinton, there would have been 
a more decisive win in the popu
lar vote (the popular vote being 
the only real indicator of the 
magnitude of the win). There is a 
very big difference between lack 
of support for an incumbent and 
support for the challenger and 
ultimate winner.
There are many messages to be 
gained from the election. First, a 
large number of Americans want 
a change in government. Second, 
a majority of people did not choose 
Bill Clintons policies. Finally, 
and the most obvious, is that vot
ers do not want George Bush 
around for another four years.
The American public is wor
ried about the economy far above 
any other concern. If people were 
satisfied with their economic situation they would not crave 
change. Change risks that which 
we already have, and only a small 
number of people are willing to 
risk their present security for a 
chance of future gain. With a feel
ing of nothing to lose and some
thing to gain, Bill Clinton was 
elected president.
The real problem, however, lies 
with France. Because of the po
litical power of its farmers, it pro
vides major subsidies. Thus, it is 
cheaer for them to grow their 
products. As a result, U.S. farm
ers have a hard time selling their 
products in foreign markets. The 
U.S. government is claiming that 
these subsidies cost U.S. busi
nesses almost $1 billion a year.
Certain members of the EC cor
rectly claim that under GATT 
rules, the U.S. has no legal au
thority to levy these taxes. How
ever, the U.S. has moral author
ity. In the past, two GATT panels 
ruled that the ECs subsidies were 
in violation of international trade 
laws. So far, France and others 
have not taken action to remedy 
the situation.
The U.S. also chose to tax only 
$300 million in imports. There 
still remains another $1.7 billion 
that it could tax. By targeting 
only certain high-visibiiity im
ports (such as white wine) and 
allowing 30 days until the taxes 
take effect, the Bush administra
tion has shown that it is willing
The talk of a mandate is par
ticularly peculiar given the pre
election discontent with all three 
candidates. There has always 
been the medias portrayal of the 
American voters dislike of their 
choices for President. Miracu
lously, after the election, Clinton
has enormous support for his 
plans. I suppose to some degree 
this will happen out of optimism, 
but I hope Clinton realizes that 
the support that won him the 
election is solely based on the 
belief that, with him as presi
dent, the economy will become 
extremely vigorous very quickly. 
Anything less will erode his sup
port as quickly as Bush lost his.
If the majority of voters really 
believed in Democratic Party ide
als over Republican ideals, it 
would not have taken twelve 
years to take back the White 
House. Perhaps Clinton is a new 
brand of Democrat, but unfortuThursday. Although he felt that 
an agreement could be reached 
quickly, he said that he was bound 
to guarantee that French inter
ests were satisfied in any agree
ment. In fact, he was told this by 
EC President Jacques Delors. 
Delors has even threatened to 
use his veto power to protect 
French interests.
If youve got the feeling, how
ever, that the EC is unified in its 
stance, think again. Germany has
nately, there are still many mem
bers of the House and Senate who 
belong to a Democratic party that 
the American public has rejected 
for the presidency the last sev
eral elections.
After twelve years of a Repub
lican president, there are plenty
of Democrats in Congress just 
itching to push their agenda 
through Congress to be signed by 
the Democratic President. With 
Clinton having ambitious plans, 
it would seem an ideal opportu
nity for members of Congress to 
give Clinton support for his mea
sures in exchange for support of 
their agenda.
Clinton won this election por
traying himself as a Democrat 
rejecting the entitlements and so
cial engineering that his party 
had previously been associated 
with. If the Democrats in Con
gress attempt to push through 
the usual Democratic agenda and
been applying pressure on the 
French. The head of the German 
Chamber of Industry, along with 
many German government offi
cials, are fed up with Frances 
attitude. One official put it best
when he stated that France is 
simply fearful of outside compe
tition in its markets. German 
leaders are to be commended for 
this stance, especially consider
ing the fact that German white 
wines imported into the U.S. will 
also be affected.
The GATT talks, if completed, 
would open up enormous mar
kets. All parties agree that it is in 
their best interests to work out 
such a deal. However, no agreeClinton goes along, the Demo
crats will lose the support of the 
swing voters who won them this 
election. Unfortunately, Clinton 
seems to be giving two messages. 
One message is about a new, more 
effective government and the 
other smacks of Democratic lib
eralism.
The word diversity seems to 
creep into his speeches, particu
larly the ones after the election. 
Many people will think I am 
sounding a false alarm against 
political correctness, but it cer
tainly appears to me that Clinton 
is using different words to de
scribe social activism that will 
result in resentment by many 
people. His willingness to enter
tain the idea of Mario Cuomo as a 
Supreme Court Justice, who will 
no doubt be an activist judge, 
certainly shows a liberal slant.
Since I love to criticize and com
plain, I am sure the next four 
years will give me plenty of op
portunities to do both. However, 
part of me really wishes to see a 
revolution in American govern
ment, even if led by Clinton. He 
has four years to succeed, but I 
just hope it is not done at the 
expense of those who worked so 
hard to achieve economic success, 
in particular my family.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil en
gineering major.
ment that solidifies and legislates 
six years of unfair treatment by 
the EC towards the U.S. should 
even be remotely considered.
In order to get the talks back on 
track, several things need to hap
pen. First, Germany needs to con
tinue its pressure. In fact, so much 
pressure should be applied to 
Delors that he either acquiesces 
or resigns. Next, the U.S. should 
maintain the threat against im
ported European white wines.
Additionally, both sides must 
agree to tackle the subsidies is
sue head on. France must be 
called directly into this matter, 
and the special interests of its 
farmers must not be allowed to 
dictate world trade agreements.
If France maintains its unfair 
protectionary beliefs and the 
GATT talks dont work out, were 
in for a full trade war in which 
everyone will lose ... and France 
will be the one to blame.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical engineering major who 
prefers scotch on the rocks to Eu
ropean white wine.
THE TARTAN
Cnmoglo Motion's Studont Nowspnpor 
Slnco 1906
Edltor-in-Chlof.............Holdl Hoovor
Managing Editor..........M.K. Rodgors
Business Mgr.........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor...........Brondnn MFeoly
Forum Editor................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor...................Josh Llndor
Features Editor.............Megan Dietz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors...........Marnl Borek
Daniel Frey
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.....Glen Hoffman
Art Editor...................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor............Cesar Sanchez
Production Mgr...............Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager...........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr............Chad McDaniel
Asst. Business Mgr.......Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Ed. Kendrick Keiwin Chua
Asst. Forum Ed.....Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendinning 
Asst. Features Editors ...Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
Asst. Production Mgrs.....Katie Swango
Derek Wahlla 
Photo Staff Mgr. .Samuol Greenfield 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstador, 
Stophon Gllckor, D.A. Hondorson, 
Mark Hllllor, Doxtor Kobnynshi, Both 
A. Mosos, Richard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Lubomlr Kochanakyj, Dave Martin, 
Christian Rostlfo, Mlko Shapiro 
Staffwrltors 
Nlcolo Allon, Jeff Bnsistn, Krlston 
Bovorldgo, Trinotto Chnndlor, Bob 
Dixon, Bobblo Dofflomoyor, Keegan 
Folk, Dan Gnllnghor, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauron Heinz, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Both Macdonald, Chris Maplos, 
Declan McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Michels, Truptl Patol, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schlff, Eric Strauss, Androw 
Sproule, Kelly Storllng, Stoph Stlno, 
Jason Togyer, Mlko Walker, Jason 
Wyse, Leslie Zubaty 
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borle, Matt 
Goldberg, Jenifer Mule, Drew Olbrich, 
Elliott Schlff, Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Kerry 
Hagan, Reid Hecker, Diane Keen, 
Anne Lopez, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Mac Mlrchandani, Jen Urso 
Production 
Kuo Chlang, Tony "Sting" deFlgio, 
Shiv Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael 
Gibson, Otis Greene, Alexandra 
Hector, Brockett Horne, Michael 
Peck, Drew Shefman 
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Lenna 
Kydes, Anne Lopez, Catherine Mar
quis, Ed Slavishak, Jon Stevenson, 
Patricia Williams
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Andrea Francionl, 
Marybeth Griffin, Karen Grunberg, 
Megan Gurgon, Cheryl Harris, Mike 
Hofsass, Julian Hollingshead, Lesley 
Kay, Mike Keating, John Kunlchlka, 
Ellen Lalumere, Meron Langsner, 
Thomas Lee, Sung Lee, Monica Leeke, 
Nina Liang, Jackie Maher, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Tanya Maynlgo, Amy 
McGovern, J. Ralne Pickett, Astrid 
Rapp, Tonya Rado, Melissa Reaves, 
Syd Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, Zongjlng Shen, Jon Slenk, Lisa Vltalbo, 
Adrian Ylu
Tho Tartan Is the studont nowspapor of Carneglo Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper published by students during tlie (all and spring semesters, at no cost to members of tho University community. It 13 printed by W(?storn Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or acadomlc yoar. The odltorlals appearing at tho boginnlng of tho opinion section are tho official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons aro tho opinions of Individual creators. Tlio Tartnn rosorvos tho right to reject or condonsc any column or political cartoon, Letters to tho Editor aro opinions of authors who aro usually, but not nocoosarlly, membors of the University community. A lottor Intondod for publication must bo signed and Include tho writer's address and phone number for verification, Names will be withhold upon requost. Tho Tartan requests that letters be no longor than 350 word3, Tho Tartan reservos the right to condonoo or reject any letter. Copyright 1992 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves tho right to withhold from publication any copy It deems unfit for publication. Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carncgle Mellon Unlverslty/PitUJburgh, PA 15213-3890 17 percent funded by your Activities Feo.All rights reserved.Ubraiy of Congress ISSN II: 0890-3107.
Things will get different in the next
......~
David Hunt
Last week, the 12 year reign of the 
Republican Party in the White House came 
to an end. Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton 
became President-elect of the United 
States. There are those who will say this 
is bad and those who say that this is good. 
Let me be up front and state that I see this 
as a good thing.
Please allow me the indulgence of mak
ing a few predictions. I make no claims of 
being psychic (I believe psychics to be 
frauds, but thats another story), so these 
are simply my best guesses.
President-elect Clinton campaigned on 
many issues  foremost among them was 
the economy. For the past few years, our 
economy has been a disaster. Thousands 
are unemployed and some of our largest 
companies are in dire straits. While it is 
accurate, I feel, to blame President Bush, 
it would be simplistic to believe that he 
alone is responsible.
The world economy itself is in bad shape 
but is bound to get better with or without 
Clintons help. This leads to the question 
of how this will affect America. Our job
less rate will go down as people all over the 
world start to buy again, creating produc
tion jobs, yet the new fiscal conservative
ness that has swept through our countrys 
consumers will remain. Debt, though at
tractive, was an albatross around the av
erage Americans neck these past few years
that will not soon be forgotten. Although 
sales and consumption will rise as the 
world digs itself out of the recession, I see 
the curves rising much more slowly than 
they did after past downturns, especially 
in this country.
And what of our national debt? The 
interest alone on the national debt eats up 
a non-trivial portion of the governmental 
income. This percentage will only increase 
as long as we continue to run deficits. 
Clinton has proposed a massive injection
of civil works projects to stimulate the 
economy and create jobs. I see this as a 
necessary initiative, yet to pay for it we 
will have to borrow. Despite tax increases 
 and they are inevitable  I see the 
deficit continuing to be a spoiler on our 
economy, and we will not achieve a bal
anced budget in the next four years. Obvi
ously, this precludes any payments to
wards the national debt which grew un
fettered during the Reagan and Bush ad
ministrations.
In order to reduce the deficit, we must 
cut federal programs. Defense and en
titlement programs in particular need 
trimming and reorganization. My predic
tion, however, is that special interest 
groups will so effectively muddle up the 
legislation through their continued bribes,
I mean campaign contributions, to Con
gress members that a great deal of needed 
changes will not be made. This will be
come more true as term limits come into 
effect for those states that have enacted 
them. Congressmen come and go, but staff 
and lobbyists remain  thus transferring 
a great deal of the real power from our 
elected representatives to those who have 
made advising and influencing policy their 
career.
To paraphrase Mark Twain: Morality
has little place when you are starving. 
This is especially true in the area of the 
environment. It is very difficult to place 
owls above jobs in hard times  an issue 
which Bush repeatedly hammered on while 
campaigning. Vice-President-elect Gore 
will, I predict, be a powerful force in help
ing to bring environmental concerns to the 
forefront of the next four years political 
melee.
Under Gores urgings, a number of proenvironmental laws will be passed. This is 
very important as environmental concerns 
will drive one of the futures growth indus
tries. In the next few years American inge
nuity will rise to the challenge, creating 
far more jobs than any losses due to en
forced environmental laws. There will be 
the beginnings of a fundamental shift in
four years
the industrial make-up of our country as 
businesses start to switch from all-out 
production to a more sustainable mode of 
economic growth.
In the social and civil rights arena, I see 
a mixture of progress and setbacks. Gays 
will make some social advances, with 
some states actually granting gay mar
riage rights. Other states will have fur
ther attempts by the religious right to 
discriminate against those whose 
lifestyles are deemed abnormal, with 
some successes. Minorities will make 
some progress which will be fought as the 
resentment towards affirmative action 
grows in the white community. Ulti
mately, AA and EO laws will be modified, 
over the hue and cry of various minority 
advocates.
Perhaps my most depressing predic
tion: the average standard of livingin the 
United States will decline markedly. Free 
trade agreements with many of the poorer 
countries will benefit them much more so 
than us. By the time the next election 
rolls around, many Americans will be 
questioning the wisdom of free trade, and 
there will be ever-increasing public pres
sure on Congress, countered by business 
lobbyists, to repeal those agreements and 
enact protectionist laws.
In short  things will get better than 
they are for most, worse than they are for 
some, and in four years the finger-point
ing will begin all over again.
David Hunt is a mechanical engineer
ing graduate student who has high hopes 
for the Clinton administration.
... things will get better than they are for most, 
worse than they are for some, and in four years 
the finger-pointing will begin all over again.
Trade war fermenting between France and U.S.
If most Americans really believed In 
Clinton there would have been a 
more decisive win in the popular vote 
(the popular vote being the only real 
indicator of the magnitude of the win).
to work on an agreement. The 
likelihood of reaching such an 
agreement, however, is not very 
certain.
Ray MacSharry, the head ne
gotiator for the EC, resigned last
If France maintains its unfair 
protectionary beliefs ... were in for a 
full trade war in which everyone will 
lose ... and France will be the one to 
blame.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992
Case Western challenges CMU to rivalry
They said:
Case sucks! Most students 
make no effort to hide the fact 
that they hate going to this 
school. The classes here are im
possible. There are no social 
gatherings comparable to what 
are described to us by our friends 
that go to other, larger schools. 
Basically, there is nothing about 
this place which makes us glad 
that we are here versus some
where else  other than the 
fading hope that upon gradua
tion our immense suffering at 
Case will pay off.
What this school needs is some 
binding forcea feeling of pride
 shared by all students which 
would boost the attitude of the 
students about Case. What this 
school clearly needs is a rival. 
Carnegie Mellon is a clear choice 
for a rival. It is a natural exten
sion of the prominent ClevelandPittsburgh rivalry. It is one of 
the few schools where Case stu
dents wouldnt rather be, our 
school colors clash, and we have 
comparable sports teams. There 
is no better choice.
Student organizations from 
Case Western Reserve and 
Carnegie Mellon should get to
gether and sponsor this new rivalry. A symbol should be pur
chased, perhaps a golden slide 
rule, which would represent the 
intense competition between our 
schools. The rivalry could then 
be inaugurated.
On the weekend of November
14, when Carnegie Mellons footyear. Thousands of dollars of 
vandalism would be left over to 
serve as a reminder of next years 
big game.
Years down the road, alumni 
remembering the old rivalry 
would return on the weekend of 
the big game. Tailgate parties
What [Case] clearly needs is a rival. 
Carnegie Mellon is a clear choice.... 
It is one of the few schools where 
Case students wouldnt rather be....
ball team plays the Spartans at 
home, the festivities would be
gin. Royal blue, grey, and white 
paint would cover the campus 
landmarks at Carnegie Mellon, 
and our campus would be blan
keted in maroon and white. Com
puter viruses would be ex
changed over our respective net
works.
Overall, extensive practical 
jokes would perplex administra
tors from both campuses. After 
the football game, the victorious 
team would gain the first pos
session of the golden slide rule, 
and the losing team would be 
left only with high hopes for next
would appear in parking lots 
surrounding Finnigan Field 
(now expanded). The campus 
would become one large social 
gathering, complete with large 
crowds, radio stations, and fra
ternity parties. The phrase Case 
sucks would be deemed as of
fensive by Case students, and 
even though life here would prob
ably still be a living hell, all 
Case students would know at 
least of one place that is much, 
much worse: Carnegie Mellon.
Jason Wright is a junior sys
tems engineering major and is 
also Assistant Production Man
ager of The Observer.
We say:
The gauntlet has been thrown 
down. The collection of trained 
monkeys that Case Western 
Reserve University refers to as 
students has dared to think 
themselves our betters. We say 
it is time to show them whos 
going to have the jobs when 
graduation comes around.
In fact, this could almost turn 
out to be a non-competition. They 
live in Cleveland. Cmon! The 
land of the Cleves?! Give us a 
break. Though the Burgh may 
lack newspapers, the Stillers 
are 6 and 2. And what kind of 
pansy name is the Browns?
Imagine what Case Western 
would look like when we paint 
it. Id actually go out and help 
them paint that ugly green 
Donner Hall, but imagine their 
surprise when their campus 
ends up covered in our real school 
colors. Just think  buildings, 
streets, lampposts, and side
walks all a lovely shade of 
Carnegie plaid.
Of course, ridiculing our new 
rivals wont be too hard. Their 
name is 10 times worse than 
ours. While we sound like a rare, 
exotic fruit, they sound like 
cheap beer. Yeah, Mike, I dont
have too much money, so why 
dont you just gimme a six-pack 
of Case Western Lite? If I dont 
drink it, I can use it as anti
freeze.
Weve also got the better uni
forms and mascots. The Spar
tans, as they are called, are just
ing to use our own weapons of 
mass destruction to win. Well 
do it despite what Vince Eirene, 
our local 60s-time warp pro
tester, says.
So we willingly accept the chal
lenge. However, to keep up with 
modem times, we suggest that
[Their name sounds] like cheap beer. 
Yeah, Mike, I dont have too much 
money, so why dont you just gimme 
a six-pack of Case Western Lite....
a bunch of half-clad men with 
brooms on their heads. We have 
the Kiltie Band. All real manlymen wear skirts, and anyone 
who says otherwise will be fed to 
the vicious Scottie Dog.
As for famous alumni, what 
have they got? We have Andy 
Warhol, George Romero, and 
Lenny and Squiggy from 
Laverae and Shirley, none of 
whom received a degree. Case 
Western doesnt even have fa
mous graduated alumni.
Face it, Case Western, you 
might as well give up. We have 
more military contracts than 
you, and we are more than will
instead of a Golden Slide Rule, 
we use a more advanced tool 
that represents the geekiness 
we share (of which we have 
more). Lets compete for the 
Golden HP Calculator.
The first section of this piece 
was sent to us by the editor-inchief of Case Western Reserves 
student newspaper, The Ob
server, and is reprinted by per
mission. The second section of 
this piece is our response. Our 
football team plays Case West
ern Reserve this Saturday in 
Cleveland. We urge everyone to 
root for the Tartans against our 
new rivals!
Election reaffirms democratic values despite campaign
The Editors Notebook
Editors Notebook is a feature which 
gives members of The Tartans Editorial 
Board the opportunity to express their 
individual opinions. Editor's Notebook 
presents the opinions of the individual 
author only, not necessarily the opinions 
of The Tartan or of the Editorial Board.
This election, my suspicions have been 
confirmed: 1) all politicians have screwed 
someone other than their wives; 2) their 
egos surpass their intellectual capaci
ties; and 3) we simply cannot put them 
on top of pedestals.
I realized that only a fool would be
lieve that the primary reason that the 
candidates were running for office was 
because they were concerned for the 
welfare of the country. The politicians 
were in it for self-gratification. It was a 
contest of egos where the ultimate prize 
was the Presidency of the United States.
The election was about who would get 
cut down by both your favorite candi
date and the press. I personally loved
what they did to Ross Perot. After the 
press was through with him, instead of 
appearing to connect people to the is
sues, he looked like he was pandering to 
the lowest intellectual denominator. 
Perot, the Industrial Giant was turned 
into Ross, the Political Chihuahua who 
yapped in a high squeaky voice while 
nipping at the heels of the Big Boys. It 
was great. Will anyone ever respect a 
billionaire again?
And what about the greatest comedy 
of the season: the Vice-Presidential de
bate? It looked more like a Saturday 
Night Live skit than serious politics. 
Just what we needed; after four years of 
Dan Quayle representing the American,
these debates only confirmed the worlds 
opinion that were a bunch of stupid 
Yanks. For two hours, we watched AI 
Gore shuffle through his deck of mental 
cue cards (he looked like he couldnt 
argue against a five-year-old), while Dan 
Quayle jumped up and down, and inter
rupted the other candidates (like a fiveyear-old). And all through this charade 
of debating the issues, Stockdale was 
looking for the on switch to his hearing 
aid.
If we had taken this campaign seri
ously, then the only conclusion that could 
have be made is that our country is a 
loony bin consisting of a bunch of vindic
tive fools. Or that we should remain
apathetic because the campaign was 
such a big joke.
Even though the campaign was essen
tially a bunch of crap, and could only be 
taken at entertainment value, we made 
something real happen on November 3. 
We upheld the ideal of being able to 
overturn a government without having 
to overthrow a dictator, mobilize our 
military, or create a revolution to do so. 
Confirming our belief in an ideal of de
mocracy, not the ideals of the candidate
President-elect Clinton should be cart 
ful. Because if he isnt, in 96 the Ameri
can public may turn good ol  yapping 
Ross Perot into a raging pit bull.
 Ruth Rasmussen
Parking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvmcnt  Student Senate  Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student 
Health  Banking  Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution Construction ? Overcrowding  Contras  Housing  
Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weather  Advising  
Sox  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  TheMuppcts  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime
 All-Nighters  Grant's MBHb  Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse * Human Relations  SEI  Presidential Search  WRCT  Computers  Classified 
Research  DC-1 Os  Hov^^Bblume  Bill's Hair  Funding  Student Affairs  Construction  Overcrowding  Housing  Sororities  Charities
 Dining Service  EnvirflHt  * Volume8 * Alcohol  Gay Right*
 Drugs  Budget  Musii^^Hht}^^^^pBnflHr^PHg * Construction  Track l-'icld
 Overcrowding  Consti^H  A^J^tofiuird^|^^buu!n E^ft!>^^BSor|^Big^it^Hjj^B|^^Scrvicc  Recycling
 Congress * Club Sports^^Hlle Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Might)
Mouse * Wootj^^Hg  7,Is7OCar ]ranB|Bpicii^Bnes  Sororities
 DiningSorvico  Envin^l^* Re^^^^^ong^j^^Odle**wWSl?rr1 AdvTflflP^ex  dffis  Alcohol  Drugs  Blades
 Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Television  Construction ? Track Field * OverParkirtg  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvmcnt
 Student Senate  Athletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  StudentHealth  Banking  Politics ? Funding  Football Field  Student 
Affairs  Constitution  Construction ? Overcrowding * Contras  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Gymnasium  Dining Service  Environment
 Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weather ? Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs  Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody
Allen  The Muppets  Mail  Manure  Advertising  Disco  Crime  All-Nighters  Grant's Sex Life  Ishtar II  Hair  Mousse  Human 
Relations  SEI  Presidential Search  WRCT * Computers  Classified Research  DC-1 Os  Howdy's Volume  Bill's Hair  Funding ? Student 
Affairs  Construction  Overcrowding  Housing  Sororities  Charities  Dining Service. Environment Hostages  Recycling  Congress  
MiddleEost  Weather  Advising  Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Gay Rights  Drugs  Budget ? Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy * The Flag  Woody 
Allen  Funding Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowding  Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium  Housing
Come GET INVOLVED with entertainment programming on campus...
The Activities Board will be holding interviews for 
the following positions for the 93-94 academic year:
Executive Chairman 
Coffeehouse Chairman 
Concerts Chairman 
De sign/Publicity Chairman 
Lectures Chairman 
Special Events Chairman 
Thursday Films Chairman 
Friday Films Chairman 
Sunday Films Chairman 
Theater Manager
Applications and descriptions are available at the Skibo 
Info Desk. Please return by Wednesday, November 18.
cannegiemelln
Please direct any questions to Brian Papa, AB 
Chairman, at bpl2@andrew, orx2105. 
AB is funded by the Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Snow clouds 
the mind, 
the sky
Football holds off Catholic 
University Cardinals, 28-12
2Cm ClusU#tA stnUsj cU WK0i ctrl jUtAmRc lrkt udraUMMA
On Thursday, I left the 
Adamson Wing in Baker Hall 
after my crash-and-burn 
Decision Processes exam with 
that dazed and disoriented 
feeling that Ive come to recog
nize as Post Traumatic Stress 
Disorder. With this kind of 
mind-set, I shuffled up the 
inclined hall, not really aware 
of what I was doing. I was 
totally unprepared for what I 
saw.
Snow.
Instantly, I forgot about my 
exam, as my mind filled with 
images of death-defying jumps 
and super-sonic runs on miles 
upon miles of glistening snow.
On the steps of Baker, I became 
that guy on one of those York 
Peppermint Patty commercials, 
as I envisioned myself on the 
powdery slopes in Aspen with 
two buxom ski-babes on each 
arm.
But for now, Ill have to settle 
on going to Seven Springs with 
the Ski Club. Last year, those 
trips to Seven Springs were far 
too much fun than they should 
have been. I strongly urge 
anyone who likes to ski to take 
advantage of this offer. After a 
few pops, youll find courage to 
do things that you never 
thought were possible.
Like shooting down a trail at 
Mach 5, zipping in and out of 
all the other skiers, to end up 
soaring off an enormous cliff 
the likes of which a suicidal 
lemming wouldnt dare take on. 
But you do it, and it hurts. And 
the most amazing thing is that 
after all the Ski Patrols horses 
and all the Ski Patrols men put 
you back together, youre back 
on the ski lift for another dose. 
There is a phrase that sums up 
the skiers philosophy: No pain, 
no gain.
Tell me that whenever ABCs 
Wide World of Sports plays 
their Agony of defeat intro, 
and you see that skier plow into 
a tree, a ski lodge, and a 
handful of people, you dont feel 
a twinge of excitement. Maybe 
its because skiing is so liberat
ing, an experience akin to 
flying, that it gives you that 
unmistakable adrenaline rush.
And when you get home, and 
youre too tired to move, you 
can sit around with your 
friends and try to outdo each 
others stories. You know, those 
"Big One That Got Away" tales. 
Those tall tales are an integral 
part of the Total Nordic Experi
ence.
Nobody wants to hear that 
you skied carefully, always 
displaying the proper Downhill 
stance. They would rather hear 
how you rocketed down the 
slope so fast that your clothes 
caught on fire, before crashing 
headfirst into a snow machine. 
Now, thats good stuff.Meteorologists have said that this winter will be a doozy.That can only mean a great season.Ive already sent my skis out for reconditioning after a long summer of neglect, in preparation for the great winter to end all winters. Even if Seven Springs isnt exactly Vail, Colorado, its still a heck of a lot f fun.
Staffwriter Paul Platosh is a 
sophomore creative and profes
sional writing major.
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
On Saturday, the Carnegie 
Mellon football team improved 
its record to 62 with a 2812 win 
over the Catholic University of 
America (CUA) Cardinals.
On the rain-soaked and chilly 
field, the Tartans learned to play 
a new type of football. The sur
face was not the turf the team 
was used to; the weather, al
though dubbed as classic foot
ball weather, was not the warm 
weather in which the Tartans 
have flourished in this season. It 
was a field that could be com
pared to a high school one, with 
dirt obviously poking through in 
many places, and the grass with 
many deformities. It was classic 
football, all right, but it was dirty 
football, also..
The first quarter looked to be 
going the Tartans way with an 
early fumble retrieved by senior 
linebacker Bill Yurkovich. How
ever, after a quick drive down the 
field, thanks to two excellent runs 
by sophomore quarterback Chris 
Dee, sophomore standout Jason 
Grusky went down with a muscle 
pull. He could not return to the 
game, and the Tartans would 
have to change their style of play. 
The team was not jarred, how
ever, and senior captain Griffin 
Pero filled the void created by the 
loss of Grusky with a touchdown, 
giving CMU an early 7-0 lead. 
The game went back and forth 
between the teams in the first 
quarter with neither gaining 
much yardage or getting close to 
the endzones. After the touch
down, a field goal miss by the
Catholic Cardinals would keep 
them off of the scoreboard, but 
not for long. Senior Andy Helms, 
the captain defensive back, had 
yet another interception to high
light the first quarters defense.
Early in the second quarter, 
both offenses came alive with the 
Tartans scoring early on a 53 
yard toss from Dee to junior wide 
receiver Jarrod Siket. Dee fin
ished with 204 yards passing, a 
high for the season, while Siket, 
the Blockbuster Player of the 
Game, finished with four catches
ing quick yardage on the ground, 
and then a 29 yard touchdown 
pass to junior tight end Scott Pe
ters, his first of the year. With 30 
seconds left on the clock, sopho
more strong safety Steve 
Voytovich, who is having an ex
cellent year filling in for the in
jured John Fratto, intercepted a 
pass and returned in 18 yards to 
the Cardinals 27 yard line. A 
play in which junior wide receiver 
Andy Van Sprang attempted to 
pass to Ed Ruland failed, but the 
next play was a 19 yard pass from
Josh Llndor/Tartan Sports Editor Junior fullback Brian Horton prepares to block as sophomore Matt Neiss sets to pass in Saturdays action.
for a total of 104 yards, another 
personal high for the season. The 
Cardinals came back quickly af
ter CMUs second score to drive
49 yards on a pass from CUA 
quarterback Kyle Farnham to 
wide receiver Ed Sullivan. 
Sullivan set the all-time CUA 
receiving record in the game with 
his 188 yards. CMU wouldnt sit 
on their 14-6 lead for long, gainDee to Van Sprang.
After the play, WPIT radios 
Randy Cosgrove said, Last week, 
Andy Van Slyke received the Gold 
Glove Award; today, Andy Van 
Sprang received the Golden Fin
ger Award for his excellent catch. 
Van Sprang finished up the game 
with 43 yards on two receptions, 
giving him 309 for the year. How
ever, a field goal miss by senior
Fred Harding with one second 
remaining left the score at 21-6 
in the Tartans favor.
The second half quickly went 
the Cardinals way with Sullivan 
scoring for the second time in the 
game to cut the CMU lead to nine 
points. The second half would be 
injury-laden for the Tartans with 
sophomore defensive back Jason 
Sylak going down after tearing a 
tendon in his leg. The surface and 
form of football played a role in 
the Tartans not doing as well as 
they could have.
The fourth quarter revived hope 
in the Tartans fans with Dees 
handoff to junior running back 
Ed Ruland and then his handoff 
to sophomore Jim Filicko, who 
ran in from seven yards out for 
the score. The Tartan defense al
lowed the CUA offense only short 
gains, and CMU ate up a groat 
deal of time on the clock to end 
the game with the 28-12 margin.
Individually, the Tartans dofense looked strong with 11 play
ers having five or more tackles. 
Junior linebacker Chad Wilson 
had the strongest tackling game 
gaining 10 total tackles. Junior 
Ben Burton, last weeks Block
buster Player of the Game, had 
five tackles and broke up a pass. 
Seniors Shane Billings, captain 
Matt Pielert and Yurkovich in
troduced themselves to CUAs 
quarterback; each gained a sack. 
Jerry Fuller also was a key player, 
stopping receivers from gaining 
any more than they already had 
on passes.
The Tartans will finish up 
against University Athletic As
sociation rival Case Western next 
week.
Volleyball 
finishes well
By L. KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Last weekend the womens 
volleyball team competed in 
the UAA Championship 
Tournament at the Univer
sity of Chicago, where they 
finished fourth with a 32 
record.
Carnegie Mellon started 
the tournament with two 
losses; to the University of 
Rochester (15-7, 14-16, 7-
15, 9-15) and to Washington 
University of St. Louis (0-15, 
4-15, 4-15) who ultimately 
won the tournament.
The Tartans bounced back 
with three straight victories 
over NYU (15-12,15-13,15- 
7), Brandeis University (15 
8, 15-11, 10-15, 15-7) and 
Case Western Reservo Uni
versity (15-9,16-14,15-11).
Carnegio Mellon finished 
the season with a 22-16 
rocord, with senior Lisa 
Leonardo being named as a 
second team nll-UAA soloction. She finished the season 
with 345 kills, 60 blocks, and 
assisted with 59 blocks.
Senior Heather Thompson 
finished with 167 kills, 242 
digs, and n team loading 87 
service aces. Senior Ann Fong 
led the defense with 251 digs 
and also recorded 120 assists. 
Senior Lisa Devlin finished 
with 462 assists, the most for 
the Tnrtuns, and 63 service 
aces. Another senior, Eliza
beth Rowlands, recorded 161 
kills, 19 blocks, and assisted 
on 30 blocks.
Junior Jennifer New was 
fourth on the team with 135 
kills and third with 202 digs. 
Sophomore Molly Brennan 
wafc second with 181 assists..
Hockey improves record 
with win against Pitt
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Last Sunday, the Carnegie 
Mellon hockey team played 
cross-Oakland rival University 
of Pittsburgh. Games with Pitt 
often are tough, bitter and very 
physical. Officials' calls often 
have a lot to do with the out
come of these grudge matches. 
This year, though, it seems that 
the times, they are a-changin.
Carnegie Mellon handledPitt 
from slow start to strong finish. 
The first period went fairly un
eventfully. The line of rookies, 
freshmen Roger Maddalehna 
and Greg Hans and first year 
graduate student Dave Umland, struck first, as has be
come their habit. With 9:36 re
maining in the first period, 
Hans scored the only points of 
the period with assists from his 
linemates Umland and Maddalenna.
The second period proved a 
bit more tense, but CMU con
tinued to dominate. Graduate 
goalkeeper Scott Berry took on 
16 shots in the second period 
and allowed only one to get 
past him. Pitt straggled to get 
into the game and had the strongeroffensive surges, but Berrys 
stubbornness and the CMU de
fense wouldnt allow it. Hans 
scored immediately to start the 
second period with assists from 
Ken Ruffo and Maddalena. 
Graduate student and coach 
Scott Sarbacker scored unas
sisted on a CMU power play, 
putting CMU up 3-0 with six 
minutes left in the period. Pitt 
came across a not-often-found 
hole in Berry and shortened 
the lead to two. But, as if to 
prove a point, CMU came back 
with 1:47 remaining and se
nior George Mueller shot and 
scored a shorthanded goal, with 
assists from junior P.J. Mann 
and graduate student Dave 
Collins. CMU had demoralized 
Pitt and were about to head 
into what historically has been 
CMUs strongest period.
History looked questionable 
early, as Pitt scored quickly on 
their power play to start the 
third period. CMU gathered it
self and began to play their 
brand of third period hockey. 
With only 3:30 gone from the 
clock, Hans scored his first hat 
trick of the season, scoring a 
goal after passes from Umland 
and Mann set him into scoring 
position. Two and a half min
utes later, Maddalena scored 
offthe assist from Ruffo, giving 
CMU a 6-2 advantage. Another 
half minute later, Hans scored 
his fourth goal of the day, the 
assist from Umland.
With 6:56 to play in the game, 
Mueller scored his second goal, 
with assists from seniors Adam 
Duncan and Mike Gallin. A 
minute later, Pitt scored, cut
ting CMU to a five point lead. 
Maddalena countered with a 
goal of his own, getting the as
sist from Umland.
Only :20 later, Hans scored 
yet another goal, his fifth of the 
game, with assists going to 
Maddalena and Umland. Pitt 
managedonelast goal with over 
four minutes to play, giving 
CMU a 10-4 victory.
On Saturday, CMU played 
Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania at Golden Mile Ice Arena. 
The game proved a grudge 
match, with CMU struggling 
throughout most of the game. 
With less than one minute left, 
Collins scored the winning goal 
to give CMU a 6-5 victory.
Basketball shows off
Men open up season with 72-59 win in exhibition game
By L. KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon University mens basket
ball team opened their 92-93 season with a 7459
thought he played very good defense. He did a nice 
job.
Ryerson came out strong in the second half, at 
one point scoring 11 straight to close within eight: 
points, 43-35. CMU never lost their composure i
victory over Ryerson Polytechnic Institute of and built the lead back up in double digits. Junior-' 
Toronto, Canada. The Friday night exhibition game guard Rony Johns hit for seven points to lead ait' 
gave head coach Tony Wingen and his two new Tartan scorers in the second half. He finished the;; 
assistant coaches, Mike Walendziewicz and Brian game with 10 points and three assists. I was:
Murphy their first 
opportunity to see 
the players per
form under game 
conditions.
I thought our 
performance was 
very good. This is a 
good start for us. 
Its something we 
can build on, said 
coach Wingen. 
There were two 
things we wanted 
to accomplish to
night. We wanted 
to win the game to 
set the tone for the 
year. We accom
plished that. The 
other goal was to 
play everybody 
and give everybody 
at least a little bit 
of game experi
ence. We did that.
After falling be
hind 11-5 early in 
the game, the Tar
tans ran off 14 consecutive points, 
with seven from
Astrid Rapp/Tartan Photographer The Tartans handled the ball well in their victory over Ryerson Tech. on Friday. The offense would collect 79 points in the win.
senior co-captain Chris Benec. Juniors Derek 
Dragisich and Charlie Connors, and freshman Kevin 
Byrne each scored eight points to help the team 
build a 41-24 halftime lead. Wingen praised 
Connors performance. I thought Charlie played 
very well. He had his strongest performance in two 
years. He played super defense.
I asked Wingen if he was suprised by any of his 
new players. Kevin Byrne played very well. Kevin 
is a tremendous scorer and pretty good passer. I
happy we won. We' 
can develop a win-1 
ning attitude right! 
away. Last year, 
we gotofftoaslow! 
start. This was an 
important win for; 
us.
Byrne finished; 
with 12 points and! 
three rebounds.! 
Other Tartans! 
who contributed! 
offensively werei 
Dragisich with 12 
points and six re-| 
bounds, and;
Connors with 14J 
points and four re-1 
bounds. Senior co-! 
captain Todd' 
Jenkins, the'
Tartans playmaker, dished out; 
eight assists and; 
hit a three-pointer.;
Wingen was very 
pleased with his 
new assistant/ 
coaches. Mike; 
Walendziewicz has; 
definitely helpedj
our defensive performance. Brian Murphy gives! 
us a lot of imput in the offense and working with; 
the backcourt players. Im seeing a difference in! 
attitude, in intensity, and defensive performance! 
from the team.
The Tartans have a scrimmage at home this* 
Friday against St. Vincent College at 7 pm. Theyj 
offically open the season Friday November 20 in} 
the West Penn Classic when they host Grove City1, 
College. Gafne time is 8 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

1
BankersTrust 
TheKey Player
hs x4prd SuuUscpmCca xludUats
Open Presentation and Reception
Thursday, November 12
Presentation: Margaret Morrison Building
Room 103 5:30 p.m.
Reception: GSIA Building
The Foyer Room 6:30 p.m. 
Key players from Technology will be present.
For additional information about career opportunities at Bankers Trust, 
call anytime 1-800-551-9333.
HERES YOUR  CHANGE TO PERFORM
c

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 199211
Ron Francis, one of the driving forces behind 
the Penguins, speaks about his long career
By PAUL PLATOSH
Tartan Staffiuriter
At noon, the Pittsburgh Penguins took 
the ice in the Civic Arena, and the 
Zamboni and maintenance people 
leared the way for the team to begin 
their practice. The players rushed out 
onto the ice, swirling in concentric circles 
around the trainer who stood on the red 
line keeping track of their laps.
A nimble Jaromir Jagr deftly maneu
vered among the slower players, zipping 
in and out, as rambunctious Ulf 
Samuelsson joked and scuffled with 
Larry Murphy in the defensive zone. 
After an errant slapshot cracked a hoie 
into the plexiglass behind goalie Ken 
Wregget, Jagr and Paul Stanton dedi
cated a great deal of time to knocking 
the rest of the glass from the frame with 
learty shots from the blueline. All in all, 
it was a laid-back practice. The Pen
guins had won the night before, and 
deserved a light day.
Not so for Ron Francis. The quintes
sential work horse took the available 
time to work on his passing: quarterbacking drills with linemates Murphy, 
Rick Tocchet, and Kevin Stevens. He 
was focused and engaged in a strenuous 
workout, while his fellow Penguins were 
content to bask in the glory of the previ
ous nights victory. Perhaps it was that 
old Yankee work ethic resurfacing in his 
blood, a product of spending 10 years 
with the Hartford Whalers, in the roughand-tumble Adams division.
Skating around the face-off circle, 
Francis carried the puck into the zone, 
rushing towards the net, all the while 
outmaneuvering the defensemen, and 
at the last possible moment, flipping a 
crisp and flat backhand pass to the wait
ing stick of Stevens. But he was a stride 
too close to Francis, and the play became 
congested at the goal crease. Frustrated, 
Francis threw his broken stick into the
empty seats of the arena, muttering and 
cursing under his breath. Francis was 
not pleased with that performance, and 
the play was executed again, but this 
time, it was done perfectly.
Francis takes his job very seriously. 
Whether hes on the ice or volunteering 
in the community, Francis autographs 
his work with intensity. I think our 
success has really been a part of every
body coming together and working hard, 
and taking care of both ends of the ice. 
When we make that commitment, we 
become very successful. As a veteran 
player, Francis is a role model for not 
only Pittsburgh Penguins fans but for 
his younger teammates as well.
Players like Jagr and Shawn 
McEachem look to the 6' 4", slightly 
greying center for his knowledge of the 
game. I think that probably the stron
gest aspect of my [hockey game] is my 
knowledge of the game and anticipation 
of whats going to happen, Francis says. 
One would be hard pressed to find a 
hockey player who can demonstrate such 
an accurate reading of any given play as 
Francis.
Watching him skate in that unique, 
hunkered, Francis style is reminiscent 
of watching a Sherman tank. It is plainly 
visible that he is keenly aware of where 
the puck is and what is going to happen 
next. That kind of knowledge is not su
pernatural, nor is it inborn. That skill 
comes from hard work.
But Francis is not a Mario Lemieux. 
He is not a Wayne Gretzky. Hes not 
even a Joe Sakic. What Francis is is a 
veteran. Being around the game for the 
years that he has, first with the Whalers 
organization and now with Pittsburgh, 
Francis has seen a lot of changes. He 
spent 10 years in Hartford, eventually 
becoming captain of that team, before 
being traded to Pittsburgh in December 
of1990, in a blockbuster move that sent 
John Cullen, Zarley Zalapski, and Jeff
Parker from Pittsburgh in exchange for 
Francis, Samuelsson, and Grant 
Jennings. Since the trade, the Penguins 
have won two Stanley Cups, while Hart
ford threatens to play its worst season in 
franchise history. When asked if there 
was any connection between the two, a 
laughing Francis says, Looking at the 
record, that seems to be when things 
turned around.
He was not prepared for that trade. He 
didnt know what to expect when he 
came to Pittsburgh, especially dreading 
what kind of reaction he would get from 
the fans. Apparently, Penguins fans had 
much the same problem. Thomas 
Sullivan, a graduate student at CMU, 
says, I was bummed out [about the 
trade]... I thought it was going to disori
ent the team. Michelle Zumbo, a rsi
dent of Pittsburgh, said, I was disap
pointed. I felt like our team was being 
broken up. I wasnt thrilled with the 
move.
The opinion soon changed. After 
Francis spectacular play in the 1990 
playoffs, he won instant fan approval. 
Hes an amazing player, probably my 
favorite on the team, Sullivan said. 
Zumbo also changed her views. Francis 
is a team player who seems to be a part 
of the glue that holds the team together. 
There are a lot of players who arent very 
big on recognition, but play a big part on 
the team.... Thats Ron, she said.
Since his arrival in Pittsburgh, Francis 
has acquired two Stanley Cup rings and 
is aiming for a third. For the first time in 
franchise history, the Penguins are fa
vored to win the Stanley Cup, and no
body wants it more than he does. I 
think the first year, people kinda said 
we were lucky, that we didnt have to 
beat any good clubs. Last year, nobody 
counted us in, and all of a sudden, we 
won it. And now, were one of the favor
ites. From our standpoint, it doesnt 
matter what people say... nobody wants
to repeat more than we do.
Perhaps its Francis hockey experi
ence that allows him to play a brand of 
hockey that is so unique it could be 
patented. Few players in the NHL can 
profess to being as knowledgeable of 
both ends of the ice as Francis. I play a 
strong two-way game. You know, I feel 
very comfortable in my own end, I play 
defensive hockey very well, as well as 
being able to find my way around in the 
offensive end. Francis consistently per
forms well when his abilities are called 
upon, whether hes digging for the puck 
along the boards in the defensive zone or 
out playing point on the power play.
However, Francis biggest challenge 
comes when playing with Lemieux. 
When the Big Guy is out, an enormous 
responsibility is placed on Francis shoul
ders. His role changes radically. Its 
different. When hes in the lineup, my 
job is to be counted on more defensively, 
so that I cant take as many chances on 
the offensive opportunities, and when 
hes out of the lineup, were looking for 
more production, and I have to step up to 
take more chances offensively.
Back in Connecticut, Francis was loved 
by the fans. He still receives a warm 
welcome whenever he plays in the Hart
ford Civic Center. To many, he was all 
that Hartford could ask for in a hockey 
player. He was a model for the commu
nity, getting involved in charities and 
fund-raisers for local hospitals. And at 
the same time, Francis was netting 90 
points a season, smashing all previous 
Whalers records. When he was traded, 
both Francis and the city were 
dumbstruck. I was very disappointed 
with the way [the Whalers management] 
treated me [in the trade] because after 
10 years of giving to the organization 
both on and off the ice, the way I did, I 
felt they had no right to demean mo like 
that.
But whether Francis was treated
poorly or not, all that controversy is old 
news for him. He has a job to do in 
Pittsburgh, keeping up with linemate 
Jagr, as the flashy winger continues to 
impress Francis with his abilities. 
Francis finds it challenging to play with 
Jagr, since the Czech is such an unpre
dictable player. Were using Mario, 
Kevin, Jags, and Tocchet up front, and 
then Murphy and myself on the point. At 
least right now, Im with the first unit. 
But that adjusts to the way the game is 
being played.... [Coach Scotty Bowman] 
is pretty steady in that respect.
As a player, Francis truly enjoys 
hockey. He loves a game that moves 
quickly, where the ice opens up and the 
true stars of the game really get to shine. 
The goon mentality is an aspect of the 
sport that Francis would rather play 
without. People come to see the scoring 
and finesse part of the game, and you 
know, thats what makes hockey excit
ing. Nobody wants to see the clutzing, 
the grabbing, the holding. It ... makes 
the game boring. Francis supports the 
new rule changes, wholohoartedly. I 
think [the changes] help hockey in genoral.
But Francis keeps a steady eyes on the 
future. His heart belongs to Hartford. 
The fans and tho city treated mo vory 
well, he said. Ho expects to move back 
to Connecticut upon his retirement, 
where plans to continue his leadership 
role as a hockey instructor. Theyre 
buildinga rink right now, in Farmington, 
and when they finish that, woro plan
ning to start a hockey school, he aid.
As ho answerod that last question, ho 
looked around anxiously, because in true 
Francis fashion, ho had an appointment 
somewhere elso. I thanked him for his 
time, and he ran off towards the Gate 2 
exit of the Civic Arena. But stopping in 
mid-stride, he turned around.
Forget something? I asked.
Yeah, my wife, he said.
GET PAID FOR WRESTLING
UP TO 5 TIMES A WEEK!
Professional Instruction & work-out facilities FREE 
Enjoy all expence paid trips, 
on weekends, throughout 
N.Y. W. Va. Pa. Md. & Oh.
NO SALES INVOLVED 
NO COST TO YOU.
nrm lrkt aUp r Acrs 
GsUKAcadtj t#tmcAi fCco AtlCKusU ura 8 LS HSw
EtsCUpA 2Ultm SNOH mttj ruuda .Us ruuUCmcltmc nrdd WTK:0
WOMENS WRESTLING CLUB

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992
Soccer ends successful seasonAlthough mens team doesnt make playoffs, it fields best team ever
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan mens soccer teams 1992 season was 
a year of highlights and disappointments, but in the 
end was just another season when the Tartans did 
not make the NCAA playoffs.
The Tartans finished fifth in the final Mid-Atlan
tic Region poll, one spot away from a first-ever CMU 
playoff berth. The team had the same record as 
Gettysburg College, the fourth place team, with a 
mark of 12-4-1, but was placed fifth on the strength 
of schedule tie-breaker.
An early-season 2-1 upset at the hands of Case 
Western Reserve, and two nullified goals in a 1-0 
loss to Bethany cost the Tartans dearly, despite 
their 12th consecutive winning season, all under 
head coach Nick Gaudioso.
We come so close so often, Gaudioso said, the 
seasons sort of start to blend together. But we had a 
very good UAA season. I think 12-4-1 is a decent 
season. I have to give credit to Gettysburg, too. They 
won seven or eight games in a row by one goal.
However, the season was not a year of disappoint
ment. It was a year of comebacks, for injured senior 
defenders Alan Horn and John Stivoric and junior 
goalkeeper Dan Warren, the teams October hero.
It was a year of improvement for sophomore 
midfielders Alex Amezquita, who blossomed into the 
leading scorer on the team with eight goals, Vince 
Russell, who led the team with 11 assists, and Pat 
Lucignani, whose hustle led to his first four career 
goals.
It was a year of zeroes for the goalkeepers: 
Warren and his 0.50 goals against average, who 
took the tough loss at Bethany before giving the 
Tartans their last shot at the playoffs with a 10 
shutout of Washington; junior starter David 
Shapiro, who posted a 0.54 goals against average, 
tied the single season shutout mark with 10, and 
set the career mark with 25 before his season 
ended prematurely with a back injury; and fresh
man John Moran, who gained some valuable 
experience for the future, playing in two games 
and continuing the trend by not allowing a goal.
And it was a year which froze a lot of memories 
in the minds of all the fans who saw the CMU 
contests. From Horns booming kicks, Shapiro 
and Warrens clutch saves and Amezquitas div
ing headers to the final highlight: junior Michael 
Brazinski racing down the sideline, outsprinting 
a defender and faking another one before punch
ing in the game-winning goal versus Washing
ton, the season was one of memories and high
lights.
I couldnt ask for any better goalkeeping than 
I got from Dave Shapiro, and Dan Warren did a 
great job at the end, Gaudioso said. Alan Horn 
as a senior really stuck out. So did John Stivoric, 
playing with injuries through his entire career. 
[Senior] J.R. Yakubisin probably never missed a 
game for me. He never really gets any mention, 
but hes real steady. The addition of Mike 
Brazinski really made things nice for the team. 
Its the older kids who stood out, and who I feel for
The NFL is full of non-surprises
NFL COLUMN
by Dave Martin
First off this week, in the Ameri
can Football Conference, Cincinnatti will be traveling to New 
Jersey to play the Jets. Neither 
team is playing well, but the Jets 
arent in the cellar of their confer
ence. Take the Jets, but not by 
much. San Diego will be flying 
into Cleveland. The Dawg Pound 
' isnt a fun place to play, any time 
during the year, but its pretty 
annoying with wind off of Lake 
Erie blowing on you. So, take the 
Browns and some dawg food. The 
Giants blew away the world 
champion Redskins a couple of 
Weeks ago. Theyre traveling to 
Denver this week. Denvers never 
boon a world champion and 
theyre at home. Take the Bron
cos. There's an interesting 
matchup between Houston and 
Minnesota. Both ore playing well, 
but how well? Houstons having 
problems on the road, 
Minnesotas having no trouble in 
the Metrodome. Take the Vikings; 
theyre in the NFC and theyre at
home.
The battle for bragging rights 
in the AFC East will not be cured 
by this game. The Colts have 
pretty much evaded that fate, 
and in fact could have a shot at a 
wildcard bid. Talk about amaz
ing. The Colts should do away 
with the ailing Patriots. Another 
interesting matchup is between 
an AFC West team and an NFC 
East team. The Washington 
Redskins will visit their AFC 
Native American-bashing coun
terparts. The Chiefs have been 
tough at home all year, and the 
Redskins are showing signs of 
age. Take the Chiefs in a close 
game. The Raiders are fighting 
their way out of another no-playoff year. A win over Seattle will 
help. Pittsburgh hosts Barry 
Sanders and the rest of the Lions 
Sunday. Sanders and Foster seem 
to have traded places this year. 
Take Foster and the Steel Cur
tain over the struggling Lions.
The Atlanta Falcons will host 
the Cardinals. Neither team 
seems too strong this year. Take 
the Falcons at home. The Cardi
nals only win games that theyre 
really not supposed to. Chicago 
needs the win at Tampa to stay 
alive. Itll get the win. Whether 
itll still be alive or not is ques
tionable. Dallas should solidify 
its stroll to a playoff game and 
probably a division championship
with a win over the Rams. Green 
Bay and Philadelphia face off in 
Milwaukee this weekend. Dont 
look for any surprises. Philly 
needs to win. It will. New Or
leans and San Francisco play in 
an NFC West battle. The Niners 
have been hard to beat all season, 
and rather quietly, at that. Take 
the Niners, say goodbye to the 
Saintstheyre gonna miss their 
trip to the playoffs.
Speaking of the Niners, theyll 
be visiting the Georgia Dome for 
the first time tonight. The Fal
cons have been struggling all year 
after such a promising showing 
last year. The Falcons have also 
run into some bad luck in losing 
their quarterback Chris Miller 
for the year. The Niners are look
ing into the return of Old Man 
Joe Montana. Not that they need 
him particularly badly. Steve 
Youngs only real problem is con
sistency, and as long as hes 
healthy, hes been consistent this 
year. Take the Niners, with Mon
tana riding shotgun or not.
Thats about it for this week. 
Maybe next time Ill discuss the 
ramifications of the rather bi
zarre, postmodern-like occur
rences in the NFL this year, and 
the great urge to supress said 
postmodernism.
Senior staffwriter Dave Martin 
is a junior psychology major.
Fidelity Investments
invites
C O M I ( I' !: R S C I !'. N C K S T I' I) K N T S
to a presentation about career opportunities
As the nations largest financial services firm with assets under manage
ment in excess of $165 billion, we recognize the critical role technology plays in 
enabling us to excel on a global level. Fidelity Management and Research, which 
provides investment research, portfolio management and trading services for 
Fidelitys mutual funds, seeks talented individuals to join our systems development 
team as SYSTEMS ENGINEERS.
If you possess a solid understanding of UNIX and C, are 
familiar with the theory of relational databases, would like to design applications 
that assist in the investment process, and can be part of a team that supports over 
350 UNIX workstations in 8 locations worldwide, come hear what Fidelity has to 
offer.
HOWTR EGTISOCr imeTanTd ctr cppo 
fAOLTR PN-nm uuOAAr smma ctvwct:
E-aTR :Rttba w 1Rttba &fdTIT2WOW-m2 O2S sTLTb W-m2g 
sTMdTIlaT2WI B-AA BifITdeTS6
11- U)l \ KI I \\Ml.r. in VI I I. N I ) llll'. I'K l-.SKNT \TI<>\, I'l.KASK \SK 
\nl K ( : \ K l\ ! U cl.VI KK I-Ol II Kill I. It l\l()U.M \TI ON
7N AHK AN KOUAI.OITOItTl'NITY KMI'I.OYKU, M/l-'/IVV.
FidelityInvestments
SPORTS IN SEASON
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Ed Pyo, x5515 
Co-rec volleyball matches will 
startonNovemberl5. Please pick 
up your schedules in the IM Of
fice.
WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Lifeguard Denise Fenwick, 
x4046, will be on duty during all 
scheduled matches. Please return 
all equipment to its proper place 
following the last match of the 
evening. Please check the IM bul
letin board for the playoff sched
ules.
CHESS
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
The schedules for this season 
are now out. You can pick them 
up in the IM Office. Please play 
all matches as scheduled and re
port your scores to the commis
sioner.
SOCCER
Commissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediate  Dave Ekern, 
x5354
Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only  Molly McDer
mott, 682-3529 
The schedules for this season 
are' now out and can be picked up 
in the IM Office. Standings will 
be posted on the IM bulletin 
board. Rescheduled games are 
posted on the IM bulletin board. 
There are a record-breaking 68 
IM soccer teams this year. Last 
year there were only 62.
IM News
BOWLING
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches are rolled on the For
ward Lanes on Forward Avenue 
in Squirrel Hill, 422-5844. The 
cost per line is $1.75 plus play
offs, and shoes cost $.50. Sched
ules are out and can be picked up 
in the IM Office. Please pay all 
fees to the commissioner.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediate  Dave Ekern, 
x5354
Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only  Molly McDer
mott, 682-3529
Final matches start today. Check 
the IM bulletin board for playoff 
schedules. Standings are posted 
on the IM bulletin board.
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Schedules are in the IM Office. 
Matches will be played on Mon
days, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays 
from 8 pm to 11 pm. Please report 
winning scores to the IM Office.
CO-REC WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Teams are still needed to start 
the league.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner:
Jon Wei, 688-9504 
Schedules can be picked up in 
thelM Office. Please report scores 
to the commissioner.
DARTS
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371
classified
ADOPTION
We can make this difficult time easier for you. We are a white, professional couple wanting to welcome a baby into our own home. We will pay expenses legal and medical. Confidential. Please call us if you are interested. Brent/ jennifer. Collect. 410-367-8242.
POR SALE
1986 Laser, great condition, 2-door, air conditioning, PS/PB, 5 speed, new transmission/clutch, inspected, rear spoiler, low miles, well maintained oil changed every 3,000, good tires, P-T-S $2,200 obo 234-6285 M-F 7-6.
HOUSING
Available immediately for rent. Twnhse cor Denniston/Aylesboro. $850 plus gas & elec. 3 BR, euro kitchen, completely updated. Immaculate condition.
Furnished private bedroom, share kitchen and bath. Atwood Street. 521- 7213
JOBS
$200-5500 weekly. Assemble products at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Information-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. Copyright # PA11KDH.
Are you model material? Donna Belajac and company is in search of new faces. If you are serious about modeling and earning extra money, submit snapshots along with your height, weight and clothing size (include a self-addressed stamped envelope) to: Donna Belajac and Company, One Bigelow Square, Suite 1924, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. No fee involved.
Don't get a job next summer. Get a business. College Pro Painters are recruiting Franchise Managers for 1993. Call 1-800-327-2468 for information. Interviews being scheduled for 11/10 and 11/18/92.
$$$ Get richer while yeur friends get poorer. Sell custom designed T-shirts.For free info call Jeff 281-4310.
SERVICES
Greeks & clubs. Raise a cool $1,000.00 in just one week! Plus $1000 for the member who calls! And a free headphone radio just for calling 1-800-932- 0528, ext. 65.
Help wanted: Housecleaning 1 time/ week. Experience preferred. Close to CMU near Beeler and Forbes. Call 682- 0621.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to international destinations. "Good fares within the USA. **AYH & Eurai! passes.** Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call Forum Travel 681-4099.
Something to Sell? Something you Want?
Let people know In the Classifieds. Send your ad today!
Schedules can be picked up n 
the IM Office. Please report scores 
to the commissioner.
FENCING
Commissioner:
Randy Bruno, x8672 
The sabre tournament was held 
yesterday. There will be a team 
three-weapon tournament held 
on November 22. Teams for the 
tournament must be made up of 
three fencers. Call the commissioner to sign up.
THREE PERSON VOLLEY. BALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Matches begin on No vember 17.; 
Pick up your schedules in the Hi 
Office.
BACKGAMMON
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches begin next week. Pick 
up your schedules in the IM Of
fice.
BRIDGE
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches begin next week. Pick 
up your schedules in the IM Of
fice.
BUSINESS
The IM Board Christmas lunch 
wil be held on December 9 at 12 
noon in Skibo room 105. Board 
members please sign up in the 
IM Office.
The next IM Board Meeting 
will be held on November 19 at 
12:30 pm in the IM Office.
Compiled by ANDY GLENDINNING
Spring Break '93 Sell trips, earn cash & go free!!! Student Travel Services is now hiring campus representatives. Ski packages also available. Call 1-800-648- 4849.
Springbreakers. Promote our Florida Spring Break packages. Earn money and free trips. Organize small or large groups. Campus Marketing. 800-423- 5264.
WANTED
The Peace corps is here! Representative Frank Higdon is available in Room 4GU1, Forbes Center, at the University of Pittsburgh. Majors we're looking for: math, science, business, or a health or education field. All expenses paid plus benefits. Phone: 412-648-7424. U.S. citizenship required.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
55$ Great money potential. Sell custom designed T-shirts on campus.For more info call Jeff at 1-800-736- 6827.
Looking for a top fraternity, sorority, or student organization that would like to make $500-$1500 for a one week marketing project right on campus.Must be organized and hardworking.Call 800-592-2121. Ext. 308.
Spring Break 1993!!! Breakaway Travei is now hiring campus reps to promote Spring Sc Winter break vacations. Cancn, Jamaica, Bahamas, SouthPadrelsland, Daytona, PanamaCity, Sugarbush, Killington, Smuggler'sNotch, and more! Earn trips, cash! Call 1-800- 862-7325.
Thanksgiving break! Ride with Collegiate Express Connection to Harrisburg, King of Prussia, Philadelphia. $46-$49. Roundtrip. Movies on board! Call 648-5853.
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words.............$5.00 per
week
21-50 words..........$8.00 per
week
50-100 words.......$10.00 per
week
Classifieds must be paid by cash or check before the first scheduled run date.
On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
Sendyouradwith
payment today. 
See your ad in 
print next weekH
All submisions for publication must be received the Thursday before publication along with payment.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

i -:'
Doctors of Carnegie host AIDS: A 90s Perspective
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Last Thursday night, the Doc
tors of Carnegie (DOC) hosted 
AIDS: A 90s Perspective, a sym
posium featuring three speakers
 Dave Tucci of the Pittsburgh 
AIDS Task Force, whose address 
was entitled AIDS 101; Dr. Tony 
Sylvestri of the Pitt Mens Study, 
who spoke on the Politics of Re
search Funding; and Mark Stein, 
whose remarks dealt with Living 
with HIV.
Tuccis speech focused on the 
stages of HIV infection and the 
routes of transmission. He pref
aced his remarks by saying that
since weve only really been study
ing AIDS for about 15 years, the 
stages are approximate.
He then discussed the acute 
stage, sometimes called a win
dow period. During this stage, 
which usually lasts from infec
tion to six to 12 weeks later, anti
bodies against the HIV virus are 
not plentiful enough to be de
tected. Therefore, there is no way 
to tell if the virus is present. There 
are few, if any, symptoms.
During the next stage, the 
asymptomatic stage, the virus 
uses the mechanisms of the hu
man cell to replicate itself. This 
stage can last from seven, to 10 
years, and as the name given to it
suggests, there are no noticeable 
symptoms.
The symptomatic stage comes 
next, and 50 per
cent of people 
learn of their in
fection during 
this period. Dis
eases often found 
in this stage in
clude certain skin 
infections and
types of pneumo......
nia. This stage
lasts from 18 months to three
years.
The final stage, AIDS, lasts for 
two or three years and ends in 
death.
T-cells are the immune cells 
which are attacked by the HIV 
virus, and one way of keeping
the course of the diseaseby the 
end of the asymptomatic stage, 
the count is around 400; by the
Intellectually, we have to learn the risk involved 
with certain actions and then decide how much 
risk were willing to take.
 Dr. Tony Sylvestri, 
Pitt Mens Study
track of an HIV-infected persons 
health is by monitoring his or her 
T-cell count.
The count is about 1000 for a 
healthy person and drops during
end of the symptomatic stage, its 
about 200, and at the patients 
death, his or her count is close to 
zero.
Tucci also said that there are
four basic routes by which the 
HIV virus can be transmitted  
blood, semen, vaginal secretions, 
and from mother to child. 
He detailed the riskiest 
behavior as needle drug 
use and unprotected sex, 
but also pointed out that 
if an HIV-infected blood 
donor gives blood during 
the window period, the 
virus is indetectible, so 
there is a small risk in
volved in receiving any 
blood transfusion.
Sylvestri then took the podium 
to discuss the politics of AIDS 
research. He pointed to the inPlease see AIDS, page L2Senate advisor speaks about failed U.S. policy in Middle East
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday evening, Carnegie 
Mellon hosted a professional seminar 
through the Heinz School. The guest 
speaker was Peter W. Galbraith, senior
advisor to the Senate For-------------------
eign Relations Commit
tee (SFRC).
Galbraith was invited 
to speak because of his 
knowledge of the atroci
ties that have been in
flicted on the Iraqui Kurds 
through the conflict in the 
Persian Gulf. Mr. Gal
braith has been one of the 
single most influencial 
officials in the U.S. in pro
tecting the Kurds, says 
Erik Devereux, an assis
tant professor at the _____________
Heinz School. His arguBlent has tremendous substance.... He
a policy professional.
Galbraith has seen the destruction 
first hand in his many visits to the
Galbraith. He filled wells, cut down 
their orchards, knocked down grave
yards ... the people live in dilapidated 
concrete caves.
These reports and pictures of the de
struction were taken as evidence to what 
is called the humanitarian catastrophe
Saddam set out to destroy every one of 
the 4,000 [Kurdish] villages. He filled 
wells, cut down their orchards, knocked 
down graveyards ... the people live in 
dilapidated concrete caves. 
 Peter W. Galbraith, 
senior advisor to Senate Foreign 
Relations committee
recorded the names, dates, and types of 
tortures that had been committed ... a 
documentation quite similar to the Na
zis, says Galbraith.
Furthermore, Galbraiths commitment 
and influence is evident in the discovery 
of Iraqs use of chemical weapons on 
their own people. In 
1988, the Reagan ad
ministration was 
made aware of the 
genocide occurring 
there through Gal
braiths documenta
tion. His report on 
Husseins use of 
chemical weapons 
was the first pub
lished since World 
War I. This was such 
certain evidence of 
their [the Kurdsl op
pression, says Dev
ereux.
knowledge led tothat took place in Iraq. Galbraith also 
successfully negotiated with the Kurds 
to hand over 14 tons of Secret Police 
documents to the SFRC that detailed 
Kurdish countryside beginning in 1987, the violations and tortures that had 
documenting and videotaping the crueltaken place.
ties conducted by Saddam Hussein and The documents were a complete dehis regime. Saddam set out to destroy tailing of all the tortures that had been guaranteed loans ... millions are still in 
every one of the 4,000 villages, says committed. They [Saddams men] had Please see IRAQ, page L3
However, this 
Galbraiths contempt for the Reagan and 
Bush administrations. Although the ad
ministrations knew the relevant details 
of the Iraqis inhumane conduct, foreign 
assistance and aid was still supplied to 
them. Even with this knowledge, Bush
Students design chairs 
for charity auction
Benefits go to South Hills art program
By TARA M. SEMAN
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
As part of a fundraiser for South Arts, an art and cultural cqnter in the 
South Hills that conducts art classes in all sorts of areas from caricature to 
calligraphy and from photography to stained glass, a handful of students 
from the Architecture Department and one student from the Art Departs 
ment have found a little time for charity.
They painted old wooden chairs with any design they wished. The chairs 
will be displayed at Borders Books, near South Hills Village Mall, until 
November 22, and at the Galleria Mall in the South Hills this Saturday and 
Sunday.
Following the displays, the chairs will be silent auctioned and raffled off 
to raise money for South Arts.
Fourth-year architecture student Cherie Hayek and James Neefe (Arch., 
92) created a chair with a cow motif, which they say will bring in the most 
money.
Alison Smith, a fifth-year architecture major, fashioned a chair with a 
sunflower design.
Third-year architecture major Sallyann Kluz worked on a pair of chairs.
Diana Nicholas, fourth-year architecture major, had a child in mind when 
she created a chair with a planetary design.
Fifth-year architecture msyor Leslie Kavchak, who has an avid interest in 
photography, put photographs on a black chair.
Freshman art student Jennifer Urso painted a chair which she named 
Humphrey.
Greg Smith (Arch., 92), Aron Temkin (Arch., 92), and second-year 
architecture major Yen Ha also designed chairs.
Kay Crum, founding board president of South Arts and a secretary in the 
Architecture Department says, lam extremely pleased with chairs that we 
have received, and I believe they will be an excellent fundraiser.
Volume 87, Issue 109 November 199_____________________The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Virtual 
Reality 
hits CMU
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Risk-free sex. Vacations in another 
world. Alien people in 3-D. What do 
these things have in common?
Theyre a few of the possibilities in 
the newest techno-creation of computer 
gaming. Welcome to Virtual Reality, 
where anything is possible.
What Virtual Reality creates is, quite 
literally, another reality. By combin
ing stereo sound effects with a threedimensional scene that moves when
ever you do, the illusion is created of 
actually being inside the Virtual Real
ity game.
It actually seems like youre viewing 
with your own eyes the computer-gen
erated world.
Youre actually, physically; put into 
tho gamo, says Tom Miauraca, Pitt's 
assistant director of student activitioB 
and ono of tho peoplo rosponsiblo for 
bringing Virtual Reality to the Pitt 
campus.
When you turn your body to tho 
right, your field of view conforms to 
that movement as it would in 'real' 
reality. When you raiso your hand in 
front of your face, you can soo a com
puter imago of it in front of you, 
Misurca says.
This kind of imaging opens up a wido 
range of uses beyond video entertain
ment.
From applications in surgery which 
Ploaso soo VIRTUAL, page L2
' -fasi M,
Carnegie Mellon crew members Jennifer Braun (Masters, ECE) and alumna Martha Moran rowed their hearts out for the A boat team In the Womens Championship 4 race at Occoquan, Washington, D.C. last weekend. Race participants Included several teams from universities all around the country, Including Bucknell University, George Washington University, University of Pittsburgh, and Washington College. The team placed ninth in the event with a time of 21.11.81, one second behind Pitts rowing team.
Going for the gold...
Anno Lopez/Tartan Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992
Shift into Virtual 
Reality this week
VIRTUAL, from page LI
would allow surgeons to voyage inside 
their patients computer-replicated bod
ies to opportunities for astronauts in the 
exploration of distant planets, Virtual
Reality isbqing _______________________
hailed as the 
newest wave of 
technology.
Although 
theyre not yet 
firm, ideas 
such as vir
tual vacations 
and virtual re
lationships  
possibly sexual 
might soon 
be available to 
consumers.
For now, Vir
tual Reality 
consumer pro
grams are lim
ited to video 
games and the 
exceedingly 
small audience 
that can afford 
them.
Since the 
j cost of one Virtual Reality set-up frej quently exceeds the million-dollar mark, 
the vast majority of us will never own a 
yirtual Reality set for home use.
; Fortunately, we can still experience
You're actually; 
physically put into the 
game.... When you turn 
your body to the right, 
your field of view con
forms to that movement 
as it would in real' real
ity.
Tom Misuraca, 
assistant director of stu
dent activities at Pitt
the 3-D world of Virtual Reality with the 
worlds only traveling Virtual Reality 
experience.
From 11 am to 11 pm on Thursday in 
the Wher-rett Room in Skibo, you can 
_______________________ choose to par
ticipate in one 
of two Virtual 
Reality activi
ties.
In Dactyl 
Nightmare 
the object of 
the game is to 
track down 
and kill the 
other partici
pant, who is 
projected 
along with you 
into cyber
space.
Says Mis
uraca, Youre 
searching for 
the person 
youre compet
ing against ... 
you can shoot 
him and he can 
shoot you.... 
When you speak, he can hear. Its very 
intense.
In H.E.R.O., you navigate through 
four different environments to reach the 
end.
Gimme a iob!
On Thursday, professionalminded students flocked to Sklbo Ballroom, rsums In their hands, to meet with representatives of various companies looking to hire new employees. The two groups Interacted at the Business Opportunities Conference, sponsored by the Association for Industrial Management and Economics (AIM) and the Graphic Communications Management Student Organization (GCMSO). The BOC Committee consisted of senior IM and economics major Peter Chang (co-chairperson), senior GCM major Beth Moses (cochalrperson), junior GCM major Barbara Reyes (coordinator of publicity and publication), and Junior IM major Clay Thompson (coordinator of company services). The conference Included representatives from a total of 24 companies, and over 400 students attended, as well. Shown here are representatives from the Linotype Corporation.
Speakers address vital issues in CMU AIDS symposium
AIDS, from page LI The nurses who had been taking care of me didnt come in. Finally,
consistencies in President Bushs statement that the United States the nurse who was in charge of me came in and sat down on the bed 
spends 10 times as much per AIDS patient as per cancer patient. The with me and we went through some medical books and we tried to 
figures Bush used, Sylvestri said, were like comparing apples and figure things out. I dont remember anything we read that day. I just
granges.
The AIDS figures 
included all spend
ing on AIDS pa
tients, from re
search money, to 
money for food 
stamps, to money 
for Medicaid, while 
fhe figures for can
cer patients in
cluded spending for 
bancer research 
alone.The Federal 
government doesnt 
nave comparable 
figures nvailablo for 
cancer patients, 
^ays Sylvestri.
Ho also pointed
remember that she was there with me.
When I said I was HIV positive, a person in 
the audience stood up and moved his chair to 
the back of the room.... I figure that Im not 
doing my job if I dont make at least some of 
you uncomfortable.
 Mark Stein, 
chemistry, history alumnus, 1986
He says he tried to 
find out as much as he 
could, he stocked up 
on vitamins, he took 
very good care of him
self. But its still diffi
cult. Since I found out 
I was infected, Ive lost 
so many friends. Its a 
lot of change to deal 
with. Sometimes I call 
a friend at 3 am, and 
tell them, Im dying. 
Im sure this is it. I 
was sneezing this af
ternoon. 
Since he has decided 
to be very open about 
the fact that he is HIV
HIV causes AIDS, Sylvestri said, In our research, no ones T-cells 
decline unless they have HIV.... HIV alone doesnt cause AIDS  
there probably are co-factors. There are lots of unanswered ques
tions, but very few scientists would argue that HIV is not necessary 
[to the development of AIDS]. We dont know if its solely respon
sible.
In response to another question, Tucci said, Its not like polio 
where were going to get something and everythings going to be 
fine.... We cant wait to find out if its [a cure or a vaccine] going to 
happen before we start getting serious about prevention.
Intellectually, we have to learn the risk involved with certain 
actions, said Sylevestri, and then decide how much risk were 
willing to take.
but that; Pennsylvania sponds $ .49 per capita on AIDS, while states positive, Stein has also had to deal with a great deal of prejudice. He 
Buch as New Jersoy and Maryland, which dont even rank in the tells the story of a visit he paid to West Virginia University, giving 
toplO for per capita AIDS spending, expend much more than Penna similar speech. When I said I was HIV positive, a person in the 
sylvania doos (New Jersey spends $1.88, Maryland $2.07). audience stood up and moved his chair to the back of the room, said
CMU alumnus' Mark Stein (Chemistry, history, 86) then spoke Stein. But I figure that Im not doing myjob if I dont make at least 
pbout living with the HIV virus. He discovered that he was HIV some of you uncomfortable.
positive on June22,1989,duringahospitalstay(hehadhepatitisB). The three speakers then fielded questions from the crowd. In
, The doctor walked out of the room and left me there, said Stein, response to a question concerning the validity of the hypothesis that
 Abortion services to 17 by the regions most experienced provider. FREE pregnancy tests. Experienced gyne care Counseling STD & HPV screening Confidential, Convenient, Affordable to all.
Women'sHealthServicesS3
Of Western Pennsylvania
562-1
LUdd Mstt 
358 Wco Ec(i -UfmcUfm vKErc :KivF*D1Eh* BvSA*IF*IE ;
Think you're strong 
enough to join our ranks?
Features will put your 
abilities to the test. Call 
x2111 to try out.
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon students interested in
Global Technology and Operations 
Sales, Trading, and Research
Pieuse plein to attend our 
information presentation on 
Monday, November 23 
Skibo Hull. I loom 13 
6:30 pm
All majors welcome
JP Morgan
.1.1. Morgan is an equal opportunity employe

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992L3
U.S. policy in Iraq comes 
under fire in lecture
Anne Lopez/Tartan PhotographerPeter W. Galbraith, senior advisor to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, addressed students and faculty Thursday in the Adamson Wing. His remarks focused on the errors of President Bushs policy n Iraq.
IRAQ, from page LI
effect, he says. The Treasury will never 
be paid  they must find the balance 
somewhere themselves.
Galbraith believes that Bush did not 
think ahead to what would hap
pen in Iraq after the war. The 
Kurds know Hussein was as bad 
as Hitler.
They fled to the mountains 
and starved in caves instead of 
returning, he says.
He maintains that if the U.S. 
had supported the rebellion from 
the start and eradicated 
Hussein, we would have had 
better results.
Galbraith finds many faults 11111111111 
in Bushs plan.
Although he agrees the war was inevi
table, and that the ground war was bril
liantly planned and executed, he be
lieves that the message Bush sent to
both Saddam and the Kurds was detrimental.
After the ceasefire was ordered, Bush 
said we would not get involved in the 
civil war. How was this message re
ceived in Baghdad?
"The documents were a com
plete detailing of the tortures 
that had been committed. 
Peter W. Galbraith, 
senior advisor to the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee
Saddam understood he had a free 
hand to put down the Kurdish rebellion. 
This made the U.S. look like we sup
ported the strongmen.... We may have 
caused his defeat of the rebellion, said 
Galbraith.
At this point, Saddam is still in power. 
Galbraith believes that as soon as the 
U.N.s monitoring stops, Saddam will 
start building weapons again.
Saddam is rich with oil ... the Secu
rity Council must give the Kurds 
a guarantee to enforce interna
tional sanctions and prevent 
Iraq from constructing an arse
nal, he says.
Galbraith has concrete advice 
to what must occur to finally 
end this genocide. Its clear that 
we must get rid of Saddam and 
his regime and assist those at 
risk, he says. Through this 
conflict we forgot the basics.
Our stronger world interest 
would have been bettered with respect 
to human rights, 
democracy, and the 
welfare of the 
nation,said Gal
braith.
Sinein for his supper...
Comedian Gary Delena grooves to his own vorslon of Michael Jackson's groundbreaking pop hit Black or White" Saturday night In Sklbo Ballroom. His Innovative performance also Included The Who's classic, Magic Bus.
FREE CATALOGof Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
Box 37000 
Washington DC 20013-7000
The London
Theatre Program
of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE nndtbcBRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY:----------------------:------->7M
A. unique opportunity for college students to study 
with Britains leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year. 
For details and an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box HGMU 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N. Y. 10708.
THE SCHENLEY ICE
SKATING RINK
presents...
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
vUmjrai NU#tlgts 3Wi 3TT0 
8K33 ul
Summer Career Development
Would a summer management position be beneficial to your career????
Have you considered a position that not only challenges your 
organizational skills, people skills, management ability and stamina but also 
offers a financially rewarding summer????
Are you highly motivated, self-reliant and eager to assume large 
responsibility????
*Do you possess good inter-personal skills????
'Are you interested in personal development????
Last year almost 500 students across 27 states qualified for summer 
management positions with our company. Average earnings exceeded 
$7,000 and our students gained exceptional managerial and business 
experience for their post graduate careers.
LhEG 1mctsmrcCUmrd
______________X
Providing management opportunities for students since 1981." 
Positions filled on a first come, first qualified basis.
Call 
300-343-0303
STUDENTS RECEIVE FREE 
ADMISSION 
with a valid college i.d.
IsCme aUps Ufm AkrctAi Us 
stmc UpsA MUs E1 (5 
GsC#rct Cnt cClt CA r#rCdrgdt Um 
vUmjraA MsUl Tk5  33k5 uli Cm 
NU#tlgts rmj -tntlgts( 
The skating rink is within walking 
distance of the campus, in the heart of 
Schenley Park.
Overlook Drive Pittsburgh, PA 1 521 3 Phone: 422-6547

---------------------------------------------------

Lick sticky side and adhere to surface
IN ITS PLACE THERE'S 
A CRUDE HUMAN SKULL WITH Xs FOR EYES AUD 
ITS TONGUE UAHGIKG OUT/
HERE, CALVIN YOJ GOT A 
LETTER IN 
TME MAIL.
ptlub i schci pce 
dnoy m gz,NwY gkz 
fw,D Dkmfb DkwYwSf kz YwDCY, MNNYwffbS x
r I'LL GET SOU 
 1 S)ME GLOVESBUT WHO WCMLD ( MASSE SEND ME AN 1 A SIRL ANONYMOUS, IV WEIRD' IETTER / 7 LIKE THIS? /
IT HAS A LOCAL \ OHM, POSTMARK,THOUGH,! MTWGUE'
50 I MUST KNOW ___.
TUE PERH. J I
LOCK,, HOBBES, I GOT A 
MYSTERIOUS LETTER/ TO 
RETURN ADDRESS IS A
SKULL WITH _______^
X-ED CUT I 
v. EYES! J P
DOESN'T the POST OFFICE 
SCREEN 
. ANYTHING
UGH, WHAT IF ITS SOME 
MUSHY FCfctA WRITTEN WITH A PINK PEN IN LOOPY 
LETTERS WITH WE "Is 
DOTTED WITH HEARTS .pi 
1 THINK I'D PUKE.
NO, ITS CUT AND PASTED 
LETTERS FROM A MAGAZINE!
WOWi NO 
HANDWRITING TO TRACE!
IT SAYS, " CODED MESSAGE 
TO FOLLOW A11, B'2, ETC 
DESTROY THIS LETTER." _
HOBBS. WERE DEALING WTH
a nos r
Wu.iutxifc >1 ftPP^&ciftte voun
rtOSfl'Wn>|...I'/ REfiLl'i ( 
BnioHEC pR.FoeMifJ6- WiTH you 
ANbTMe oTMSi^, . /
 MBRID SUNFtoiyJeR-S'.../
vns you cyochc euol . nSKULL FOR A RETURN ADDRESS, 
UNTRACEABLE CUT-OUT LETTERS, AND A COOE KEY
H x /ti n reic
,jHT IwffMUw " q
TUTS IS REAL SECRET 
AGENT STUFF/ WHOEVER 
SENT THIS TS TAKING No 
CHANCES ON THE MESSAGE 
BEING TRACED OR 
INTERCEPTED / r
GOSH, THE MESSAGE MUST BE SUPER TOP SECRET AND 
IMPORTANT.' I WONDER
.une oe vtya 1c ; i
WONDER WHEN ILL FIND OIF!
ITS A GOOD 
TTTING WRE 
THE PATIENT 
ViPE.'
THIS TS SO 
COOL I HAVE TO SO 
TO THE 
BATHROOM.'
~2UUdfUsco
loij (Jiun'Tlnors&t-i
5l\V xv& GrOT TO &o  I HWtTHl S 
STP.AM&E. 3 WEEKS WHERSX "DoiJT WUFST VAF'ffENED LIKE 
A/DTft/Wfr HRPpetJcl) LIFE AT AH.!
M ^TikE r .nD 
HI olL'Sv HWTUjy
T vd Kk/ow dnnj , r 9n"t7 juSr)'wHftT lou M6 AiO . -J ^eElO ^ 
K^ckO To rYMSS | L-i K 6.! u/HLt i 
oF mv| LiFfc AvT />, T1E \
THIS IS SO EXCITING TO GET A SECRET 
UNTRACEABLE MESSAGE 
; IN THE MAIL / _______
IT 5AID A CODED LETTER 
WOULD FOLLOW.' MAYBE IT 
WILL ARRWE TODAN/ I 
CANT WATTTO GET HOME /Civ I
ahd see; J fa-nv
I WONDER YIHAT IT WILL 
5AY ? I WONDER WHO SENT IT? I WONDER WHY 
ITS IN CODE?
"''J------------ ifes^si
I'LL BET I GROW UP TO BE 
A SPS; I'M SO GOOD AT FIGURING OUT WHAT5 
GOING ON / y
3&CRTAS& 6F UooLuJoa-rHS mM-STEMOUS ftrr,AJ5lR SHEEP 
rnoLes or0 W .tiya tjpv .tiv ,e,uT ehol nmg ,*> sEr^u-toF 
THOS>6 Th^6-5- ;'LOMfa WtliKS . |
)J|\( 11 J/ / M# fSBt-fou,iJUDtix
//|l \ \ ^ J=W yiKH-c V<WE our i.II \ \ 1 W P>flii / // Wii ]
iif//(f&Es/lfrx ^ ft If^P/^o-me,
uc8" euol 
lnll"vny8ed 
ol n BtiioapcBRAIN1." IT'S...
its a 
TartnSf
ltdc BctBycHAVE SECRET
nadoicilb 
tw unhc n
SECRET DETRACTOR!
OK, THE FIRST NUMBER. IS 
3, Si THAT WOULD BE "C
scOe el i sa eunel n 3
zk z26 kzwfb DCDf Df 
oe Dkmf mf gw [zNwN
MESSAGE / -f------------
f-74 CWICK. LETS 
' 31'V I DECIPHER
I'M HOME I'M HOME/ DID I GET A LETTER TODAY 3>

---------------------------------------------------

bv N/OeviD KoeAV4SHI
DPBdpF 61OdxI IwN6Cs xhL C Hlb &KE* ftr/4ST...___________
SOnETH/^ ilNISTETp. &REIA/3 MOT AWA y.
,c^dd6j *h #^< 'ThftfAUKKKKKKKK**^p #**a *!c(o*p*p9r I'fis 4i<. ^pMC KM* *v2hoh 3
]1 WienA fljV Of, 66fl i Wtftf (,.- r 
tx >*. 1 ( ! E5nrPrA\ U'"- 3 x 6 s0, , H Jit Lr aQIITi/ \zm 
TM li'L L
TE^CH trtNOT TO 
FhOO vF
"EWHEAD*
.pv/fiewiE, M<
i"i jg[ DMAlMb 
\\ hdd 2NML
1iSc f N<M 
4Acutya"euc dnt sc oc seole"E 
C.vJAAHAMAnAAMA^
cr^/ m / - \ ry, Hgspgan/
I TH v2 xSv(DLB1NF( hL 8l LBhL 1
Klmt*y rc aC rC>:\ ...
% aC^^^^L>BC<(hdEd 'UthCR^
M b^^sMCsMa*IL \M pjFP
i CM (* feov-J LBx* ddxGc
hLL62KCpdC c 21LB
//y f Fftt-ri.' Awo thEkIy. 1 [ I Fo b VI OflfO OxWBvP5
O J*1;! V ENTFUrB THf  ------s
on n 2hE h^.wO3( 1 G2LhvL 
| G(fPw1ccd> vCh1vLis So^tT^lMt N*.
m 9ottoGG"
pc^-yW 1. CHMUE. TH6 PWHftT 
W HK9 TMW' T*** *<>*'"-
^[W. Vwt'ilE >0|<0& n ftftof t*> TiLHif
THt TTtKTH Soy.-------------------------
COKE >, MIUIF. LET'S 6eT 
. So*ETH(A)& to EfrT* /"
euc \X>Teas -PIPHO'T hyw f*e /
HMM...THERE
7tcl eune 
kz::HfS7 R -pM^L |S
n/ l-oHSH 
y A<;-/!iiJ. /
KWSY, THEae's ' 
ewf kfiLe ri"Lift NtCIFDMm9b;Lnh xit"T yw 6o pce Kcmi 
V-ri [neV
'"ffoNtv! -fneMi ^ U-hpml. /m ine 
Dt-i'ie'^w pirtre4'
kiEW. I'll. ttT K PlCtf 6F
PlE (ktij K OM> of Tf^
M6Yf i>ieei: PAtt T TH iAfAf OUT) CMP-oi-A1
By GARY LARSON
, /IMIlihilltil liy Ul'ivtlUl I
And bai, I'll bet we want nsgret 
that w? fold thm io f ix -the ckbt.
For years on end we sixtened in, 
Ms took much more than ye pvt in
And nau they say the bill's me due, 
7iia( sat] 'tbrt t Sweat/It irn't be ipu/" 
WII go to pump some other chump / 
Hot lirdegixjs. just Prnld Trump.]
1 trust them Full/ 
they'd men Quibble! 
They served free lunch, 
and 1 sure .
and I'm rehevej/ They sure u/on't be 
a-scjueeiin'we.
More worms? ... Saaaaaaaaay  why are you 
being so nice to me all of a sudden?
1198? fliWorkS me <0>tlnDul(d 6/ Umveiwl Pie S/nfliCJIt
THE APVEiJT^PES
-------'I i--------
PUti rUj o\ FUlurmCUm GsUsU u^rcKs8 
ThesCmsM* cU jK6CDc fbr j*ct stjt^CumUm' ''
TK,S is 8lir3
fit planer on . 
op JelF
cjtsrrocnon
VjVicxT
vuv^re. c
Ornithology 101 field trips
f2onnl&-
r'rn ^o\r\y fv roape.
M,v,J v/ery opm to wjjr<sr 
 '/u aCc TVitn Pama ro ,rrtp'.nr T^e ^or;/
V^-, \ -'noti 
fcj \ CoT 1L?
!kA cc(!s~?L eUc 
mUL Bc m[bjE aCp|K
Kelp^^--------MTfiiWOM IK 0iH>SulMS)U(Me(WlPiMl8Y(M<Jle
^Trr'
pnO ST 
Sor**
Joe! '(on
OOfYlt)
-jv#- ,
pUr.t'f.
/vyoT^'in^ P -Sort
C-Su( * Fods#vEcs^
ooce. x c.n f 
I roaicc o> "nucleo^i^- 
\ /Vow VAI^OiTS TV"S I 
) J.__ StVfF 1 J
FUKLK
E1 O'J
"Well, II I'm lucky, I should be able to get off 
this thing In about si* more weeks.

---------------------------------------------------

^ fN f OhJ Tri. k Of To.
r mppBD iri Ma 5 /f le m /vz
MftS To THIS M/lrik Of Uf BU5I5S.
-----------------------------/ TffiTXn\ K# L /
mMbo's
HM-A-WA'L/
YJE kttPX 
Vi 5) /MtsrmRDBy: Linda Brow-PhlllipoDeborah Boublch
THN TUf keyy
ao f eM uer
hlOT ATTAhl &SPO&O > y *
rfeATlAMA> !S Tflf AV 
AfTRL!F ? .
f vs if wtrAf
or roo keyy ao 
koo ffit,., 5PAC. /s 
LlMlT.
ISSO U9M inribtK 1E3GHAH 3.V.BICU
By GARY LARSON
01987 faiWoiki, Inc/Distributed by Universal Presi Syndicate
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
' 1 s(rmc gtdCt#t( 1^01 
2rEKBmc^aUUs pCD(U|
W+t'ong focrttoJl 3a4 eo.+;<, Ho-v,,
been rcadirt^sooie
V/illi&r^ ("aolfcvrtLr C\nJ li'S+enmcj to GcrsKw'in. rfoij ojIi^Vn is +ke rea.\ 
pinnacle of Arryecic.a.r,
Im nottOa+ckinij Fo0+L!(.X+'s +ke Kiss Nr-tli America 
V btatfty;  parent. S
STARRING
BIFF  ANTOK)
Final pago of tho Medical Boards
'THAT'S SUEU-, BUT ^ 
UHH'D W HAVE TO BUILD 
IT IN OUR Z.IV/NJC, ROOM?/
f POM'T FRET/ SEVERAL 
OF OUR READERS HAVE WRITTEN N IKJ, COMPLAINING AEOOT THE LAOC 
. 01^ 4BATUITOOS SEX AMD >
\ VIOLENCE IN THIS STRIP/ y\\ I consequently, i've <1! V CONSTRUCTED this
, (j C,r\ VOLUPTUOUS CHROMEA \r\d\ PlAIED BOTTLE J) MiJ ROBOT.'
Thor's hammer, screwdriver and crescent wrench
'MM CiOt> BIFF, (JHAT'S^ THAT? SHOULD X ALERT 
THE NATIONAL C,(JARb?
THEN AqAjM, PERHAPS 
VICTORIAS SECRET WOULD
y BE MORE APPROPRIATE.
it's BLOCKING, m VIEW OF THEALLIMPORTANT V TELEVISION O
THIS IS BETTER UIAn 
TV,ANTOU.' SHE (OOkJT 
TRW TO SEU. W 
ANWTHIW^/
S C,ES BIFF, THAT 
SORE WAS VIOLENT.
FRANKLW, I (JAS HOPMC, FOR A Bit 
MORE JW THE <JAW 
K OF SEX/ >
r WATCH WHAT 
HAPPENS WHEN I ACTIVATE HER 
POUER SOURCE ,
How cow documentaries are made

---------------------------------------------------

/ffcs/tr
&o use /Tir. 
Gubblfi
Dn o't ose* harsh abrasi or /ye 5oapsu^anm
cor ree is
QOURGCOIS
CRRCH I
iycArt
oiqqa
WJMAtf,Menopusawit
CALLING ALL CARNAL CONSUMERS!
bOO'VE SEEN HER BREASTS - -NOW SEE THE BEST!I'M NOT POING THIS FOR 
MY56LF. 'HE PRESIDENCY 
15 A THANKLESS, PIRTY 
JOB, BUT I'M WILLING 
TO MAKE A WORLD - r-; 
CLASS SACRIFICE / *
Ro vrb obeoyb ( / N 
BE6ME... SKKKKKKK*
OUR BNim PRIMB-rm 
SCHBCm I0NI6HTI5WJN0 
PRE-EMPTED BY MKT vm 
eA pvrb people's aB
dk| SERVANT
mono obBTb n iv-RTvyS
fpUT/ND. NO BIO PI:AL.
9 JUS T OPEN UP
! WHOOP s<r-e^~
, AND FIX * 
f IT/BNP / ,(\ <-K'KY /
mCOMB TO
THB2A-HOURPEROT CHANNEL!
(w'M<iONNA\
\HWtA6IWI[OUCKINOLWNPA
W nSJUsfl -nmsimm
PEROT/BUSH!CLINTON/ Cla
CANTBEUEVE
PO SUCK WILLIE 
 THE-RUNT 
WON...
WHO COULP HAVE 
PPEPICTED THIS 
n MIRACLE ? 
DEBACLE?
SURE AM LOOKING 
FORWARP TO FOUR 
MORE YEARS OF
? POING NOTHING.
? POI NO NOTHING.
GUESS THE ELECTION 
REALLY WAS ABOUT
? TRUST!
? CHANGE!
GRIM AND JOBLESS PSEUDO-SADOMASOCHISM 
THE KIND AMERICA LIKES'.
ByyJASS
S'CHTFF^In six weeks, twill be Christmas))^
WHY DO PEOPLE WRITE SE - 
CRET5P0WN? CAN'TPO 
THAT! NOW EVERYONE WANTS 
TO KNOW WHERE I WAS ON 
THE LOOP THING!
THIS DARN PAPER TRAIL 
STORY JUST STEAMS ME, 
MAKES ME WANT TO GO 
SEMI-BALLISTIC ON THIS 
ONE... cP
shLx hNh FBhNNxO EBS,LWELL, THAT'S ONE STORY 
I'LL BE TAKING TO 
S THE GRAVE.
? OPEN COURT.
CAPTAIU'S LOG, PART TWO I've called the ship HAS 
3lPTHIflG via subspact radio to aik for Cheir assistance 
in defeatmo. Tud Turner once and for allwiehWkIi sh dpeg1 Wi sweWeNcAjot much. I work for^
Peanuts? Meet ny boss) land team manager,
sds( Charles Ii
ILm Jimmy UrttlW'^ Uelcome to 
the Tohaha#k\iC?
lr# cot rtA T TfM UJJw, 
UEUTENMNr.
\MEANUlHIL^j
HEY, BILL I'M GOING TO
CLINTON! QTHE WHITE
HJHERB'YOU HOUSE(i#
GOING NOW? ? DISNEY| LANP!
BEEN SUCH A SCREWY 
YEAR, TENSION CITY WITH 
THAT FR5EZB CROWP OUT 
THER3 COMIN'ATME...
HELP OUR GROUND.. 
BARBARA OUT THER5 
; HUG6/NG THOSE A!PS 
3 BAB/ES, ME TAKJN'ON 
3 'THATARKANSAS GUY.'
T/iWiroirigfi
HEY. KNEW IT WOULD 
HAPPEN. KNEW I'P BE
? HUMILIATED
? VINPICATEP 
AT THE POLLS...
HAPPi AM/n/tfA AY FUZiy S. fQXXYJ
BACK ON THE 'ButGHrmtif %ED\ ennocSlSensors indicate intruders' 
Or) board. They came from the MGS *Z!EC*!6s( s 
They are shapely and \ 
lacking in dimension.)
HEY, GOVERNOR!
IUHAT'5 JOB ONE - GUE&SlP 
CLEANING UP THE LIKE IT
ME5S IN WASHINGTON r\BOTH 
OR HEALING WOUNDS*xvr; ? 
NUTTY OUT THERE,.. 
PONT KNOW HOW 
THAT TAX-ANP-SPENT? 
GUY GOT AS MANY 
VOTES AS HE PIP...
JUST HOPE HE'S AS GRACIOUS IN 
 DEFEAT ? VICIORY 
AS I'VE BEEN IN 
 VICTORY, ?DEFEAT.
A
SO WHAT'S THE ELECTION 
TELL US? CHANGE. GOTTA 
HAVE CHANGE. CHANGE IS 
GOOP. BUTPRUPENT 
CHANGE. &
/The Hap fd/Ser refuses to correct^v UJjI his mistake^Union rules. the.Capt.ain^ \deuded to turn the ih!p upside down imtead-J____J ^-7 AR BUCSr~ is sponsored by HiphldnderCaft, where 80& of the
TO B>E cosir/uEQ.
Dear Comic Artists and Would-Be-Comic Artists of 
the FUTURE! Soon to be coming out is a guide to 
being an official Tartan Comic Artist. It is called the 
Guide of Being an Official Tartan Comic Artist! Call
x2111 and ask for the Art Editor if you are 
interested. Why? Because you need it and it's FREE! 
Have a nice day.

---------------------------------------------------

Services, NeXT, IBM, cl, IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewlett ?j. 
Computing Services, NeXyBM^j^JOMEG^Microsof^
Lotus,
"7#
B A<
Taris.
Storage Dimensions,' Suj 
WordPerfect, Storage 
Packard, Apple, WordPi 
I 'lev.jp! FGar'|"'Ppl 
AAic wle;t|
IO/fl^^Wt.D 
IBM, c,X IOMEGA-, Mj 
Services, NeXT, IBM,
Computing Services, N 
Lotu*CMU 'Computing!
Mvt91uudGb G 
log 'id,
Sun,loris,
Dimensions, Sun, lai 
Storage Dimensions,
WordPerfect, Stora 
Pad!
kl.Svu
Microsoft, DEC10/MK
IBM, Ijl, o."hoyUM6
Services, NeXT, IBA 
Computing Service:
Lotus,;
Ad#%. A0/GILogiiJwJbe^AI. >
pjiiunsi oui i, Uc
Storage Dimensions,
WordPerfect, Storage]
Packard, Aggl^^prdf
Hewill
lOMEQ^^^ft, D 
IBMMil
Serv^^^^^^V\, c
Comp^^^JBs, N 
Lotus, CMU Computing]
Adobe, Aldus,: Lotus, C 
Logitech. Adobe. Aldus,
Sun, Cjfljj^jch, Ai 
DimG^BrnsTs^laris,
Str Dimen^fc, Su|
Wor^fect, j^Kge 
PackJ^H|^^^ordP(
HewIellraRfra, Appi 
Microsoft, DEC, Hewlet|
IOMEGA, Microsoft, Dl 
_ IOMEGA, Mi|
SerM NeXlM\A, c 
Con^Bng SorH|s, Ni Lotuf^Mj^^Ruting 
Adob^^lPcius, Gi 
Logitech, Adobe, AlcJu:
Sun. Ciarl
Dimensions, Sun, Clpij 
Storage Dimensions,
:qrd, Apple, WordPerfect, Storage Dimensions, bun, Uaris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU 
5tt Packard. Apple. WordPerfect. Storage Dimensions, Sun. Claris. Logitech, Adobe, Aldus,
e Dimel 
fect, Storagel 
e; WordPerlJ^^ 
kard, Apple, Woiurerfect, 
Hewletf Packard, Apple, 
Microsoft, DEC, Hewlett
Services jfljl cT,
.omputi
Lotus,mmi ^BJoufing 
,dobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU 
.. Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, 
fis; Sun, Claris. Logitech, 
e Dimenj^^CIaris. 
feci, Sfi^^TflH@ons, 
le, Wcfflerfect, 't;pge 
kard, ^/c^fWeci'
HewIeMJ*pple< Mlcrosoft^W^^ewIett 
MEGA, Microsoft, DEC. 
eXT. IBM. cT, IOMEGA. 
Services, NeXT, IBM, cT,
omputi ^^^sXT 
Lotus, : ring
,dobe, V':vX)s, LotusMU 
ijjpidus. 
kSun. '^M^ngitech, 
gnsions, Sun, Claris, 
torage Dimensions, 
dPerfect, Storage 
Meet, aSarcwipple, 
icro^fcDECHewlett 
MEGBEC. 
eXT, IBM, ci, lumcGA, 
Services, NeXT, IBM, cT, 
omputing Services, NeXT, 
Lotus, CM^omputng 
.dobe. Ai^MU  Logitf^KaoSldus, 
ns, Su^lar:s. LM;ch. 
e Dlme^^ns, Sun^jarls, 
feet, Storage Dimensions, 
le, WordPerfect, Storage 
kard, Apple, WordPerfect, 
Hewlett Packard, pie,
AicroscgW^|vnj||/leti
dcpWyH mcv6
eXT,;IBM, cT,IO/l3A, 
Services, NeXT, IBM, cT, 
'ornputing Services, NeXT; 
Lotus; CMU Computing 
dobe, t-A, y^^IMU 
, Logltcf^ 
ns, Sul
e Dimera^^^iun^aris, 
fect, Storage Dimensions, 
le, WordPerfect, Storage 
kard. Apple, WordPerfect, 
Hewlett Packard, Apple,
WordPerfect, Storage Dimensions, Sun, Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU Computing Services. NeXT, IBM, cT, IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewleti
[crosft, DEC, He' 
licrosoft, 
cl IOMEG. 
1 eXT, 
ing Servio
'd j
ensio 
il 
_ >le; Word 
dckdrd, A 
DEC, Hew 
Microsoft 
T. IOME( 
IBA
be, AldusBl ii
VOI 
lard,1 
EC. He^EGA, Microsoft^
IM. cT, IOMEGA,
[as, NeXT, IBM; cT. 
Iting Services, NeXT, IB.
Services, NeXT, IBM, cT, IO
Computing Services,
Lotus, CMU Computin 
;e, Aldus, Lotus, CMU 'jdVng SeJ 
gitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, 
un, Claris. Logitech, Adobe, 
Imensions. Sun, Claris, LogitecP 
ect, Storage Dimensions, Sun, Claj 
e, WordPerfect,- Storci 
bckard, Apple, WordPa 
I, Hewlett Packard, Ap^S 
; Microsoft. DEC, Hewlett Packaix
pris, 
Jons, 
5rage 
^Perfect,
Storage Dimensions, Sun, Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU Computing Services, NeXT, IBM. cT, IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewlett Packard, Apple,
nsions; Sun, Claris, Logitech, Adobe, 
Dimensions,
WordPerfect, Sto 
Packard, Apple, \|
Hewleti Packard 
Microsoft. DEC,
IOMEGA, Micro]__ __ ^ _ ___
IBM, cl, IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewlett Packard, Apple:
jidus, Lotus. CMU Compii 
e. Aldus. Jptus, Q 
bbe. Al 
iris, LoglteJ 
Sun, Clc
ices, NeXjA^ 
tputlng Seri 
s CMU Cm) 
pe, Aldus L|s. C? 
i AdobeB\ldus,
kft, DEC, Hewlett 
Microsoft, DEC, 
V cT. IOMEGA, 
res. NeXT, IBM, cT, 
Services, NeXT,
Services, NeXT, IBM, cT, IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewlett Packard, Apple, WordPerfect, Storagi
WordPerfect, Storage Dimensions, Sun /Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus> Lotus, CMU Computing
Computing ServcjgteXT,] 
Lotus, CMU Corr^png Sej 
Adobe, Aldus, Lotl^MU 
Logitech, Adobe, AldLoli| 
Sun, Claris, Lagit^BBlob'l
IM, cT, KAE 
*ces, NeXi. IB/|Jill f
KAU C|vm Loi
Dimensions, Sun. Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus.
|\, Microsoft, DEC, Hewlel 
IOMEGA, Microsoft 
il IOMEG 
JKT, IBM, c
^Services, h]
card. Appi, W 
Pack 
. H
Dimensions, Sun, Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU 
t, Storage Dimensions, Sun, Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, 
lie, WordPerfect, Storaae Dimensions, Sun, Claris, Logitech,I   - ^    - -  ^ rions, bun, Claris, 
age Dimensions, 
Perfect, Storage
Storage Dimenskl 
WordPerfect. Store] 
Packard, Apple, W| 
Hewlett Packard 
Microsoft, DEC, H
|Sun.
Derisici 
iPeil:;. St] 
Ipleord 
I'lett Ari
Computing Services, NeXT, IBM, cT. IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC. Hewlett Packard, Apple, WordPerfect,
Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus-, CMU Computing Services, NeXT, IBAii 
Sunjflaris. Logitj^i. J|lobe. Aldus. LotuHMU^^mputing Ser\B^NeXT, IBM| 
ii, Logitech, Adol(pdu^l^ CMU Cornpul^ Services,pge
rfecil
lisions, Su 
trage Diri 
Iorc#irfeiSun, Claris. Loc| 
e pensions.Aldus Compiidi'.^^ffdus Lotus '1
IOMEGA, Microsoft, DEC, Hewletf Packard, Apple, 
JOMECM, /M:rosoft, DEC, Hewlett 
IBM, MEGA, Microsoft, DEC,
ig Service! 
|AU C#mpf
IBAA. cT, IOMEGA, 
Iviat NeXT. IBM, cT,
IOMFGA. Microsoft. DEC, Hewlett Packard, Apple, WordPerfect, Storage Dimensions, Sun. Claris, Logitech, Adobe, Aldus, Lotus, CMU Computing Services, NeXT,

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
n. a way c>f thinking where one selects and reconciles principles 
and opinions belonging to different schools of thought
Spin Doctors funk 
it up at Metropol
Spalding Gray enlightens Carnegie
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Production Manager
Tomorrow night at 7 pm in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall in Oakland, 
writer, actor, and performer Spalding 
Gray will present a lecture entitled A 
Personal History of the American The
atreAn Evening with Spalding Gray. 
The evening promises to be ap. informal 
performance of the unique and captivat
ing monologue style Gray has made fa
mous on both stage and screen.The visit, 
sponsored by the Art Department, is 
part of the Robert Lepper Distinguished 
Lecture in Creative Inquiry Series and 
is free.
If you are going to see oe lecture this 
semester, this should be it. Grays style 
is one that is captivating and simply 
impossible to describe to someone who 
has never seen him perform. Gray is an 
intriguing and whimsical poetic jour
nalist (he prefers not to be called a 
storyteller), and perhaps one of the 
most important faces to hit this campus 
all semester.
Best known for his award-winning per
formance in the movie Swimming to
Cambodia, Gray is also widely known 
for his monologues on stage, such as Sex 
and Death to the Age 14, Booze, Cars, 
and College Girls, A Personal History of
courtesy of The Carnegie Museum Spalding Gray.
the American Theater, India and After 
(America), and Terrors of Pleasure, all of 
which he has performed throughout Am
erica, Europe, and Australia.
Other credits include the role of the
Stage Manager in Thorton Wilders Our 
Town on Broadway and Hoss in Sam 
shepard's Tooth of Crime off 
Broadway,and film roles in The Killing 
Fields, True Stories, Stars and Bars, 
Claras Heart, Beaches, and The Image. 
He has published numerous books and 
monologues, including Sex and Death to 
the Age 14, In Search of the Monkey Girl, 
Orchards, and Monster in a Box.
Tomorrow nights performance follows 
his recently released movie, Monster in 
a Box, which premiered September 1 in 
Pittsburgh. An enthralling adventure, 
it takes us through the making of his 
newly published Impossible Vacation, 
the book Gray refers to as his monster 
in a box.
So what are you waiting for? Its free. 
You didnt really want to do that home
work anyway. This is something youll 
definitely regret later if you pass the 
opportunity up now. Trust me, its defi
nitely worth it, and, hey, money-back 
guarantee!
One last thing. If youre going tomor
row night, Id suggest you get there early. 
I somehow have a feeling Gray will have 
no problem filling the house.
Nicholas Nickleby set to dazzle 
audiences at Kresge Theatre
By ANDYVAUGHN
Tartan Diverions Assistant Editor
Why on Earth would anyone pay $25 to sit through eight 
hours of a Dickens play? With it's upcoming production The 
Life and Adventures of Nich olas Nickleby, the Carnegie 
Mellon Department of Drama answers this question. The 
answer is a bold, unprecedented presentation that repre
sents the very bestthatthe DramaDepartmenthas to offer 
and more.
One aspect of this shows great significance is the break
ing with the tradition of exclusively featuring student 
actors on stage. Due to the immense cast requirements and 
vast character age range, the plays cast includes students, 
faculty, and Equity actors. But even with the presence of 
non-student actors, many roles were left unfilled, so the 
students will be playing two or three roles.
In fact, its rumored that even one of the directors will 
Play a small role. Rehearsals are said to be a virtual 
vacuum for actors. Anyone who comes too close will inevi
tably get sucked in. The overall result is this: The cast of 
Nicholas Nickleby will be the largest, most diverse, and 
Possibly the most talented group of people ever assembled 
for a Kresge Theatre offering.
The actual production of this play will be a feat in itself. 
The final results of hours and hours of rehearsals by 
countless actors, late nights for crew members creating, 
assembling, and finishing a colossal and elaborate set, and 
onths of organizing by directors, stage managers, and 
Production people, will come together, should the gods of 
drama smile upon them, to be a spectacular performance.
The play itself is also not too shabby. It was adapted for 
the stage, from the Dickens classic, by David Edgar. The 
Royal Shakespeare Company performed his adaptation in 
1981, winning many very prestigious theater-type awards 
and establishing the play as what Saul Markowitz, assis
tant director of public relations for CFA, calls one of the 
legendary theatrical events of our time.
Nicholas Nickleby is also unique in that it has two 
directors, a rarity for Carnegie Mellon productions. The 
extreme length of the play, however, made the project too 
big for one person alone. Splitting the directing duties 
between the first and second four-hour segments will be 
Gregory Lehane and Jed Allen Harris, both CMU drama 
department faculty.
To return to the question of why one would pay $25 to 
watch eight hours of a play, one should consider that this 
play will not be as much watched as experienced. The vast, 
unique talent assembled, the award-winning production, 
the incredible set, the significance of the entire event will 
definitely be something to behold, and.something one will 
never forget.
There are two ways to experience The Life and Adventure 
of Nicholas Nickleby, depending on your endurance. You 
can either watch it over the course of two nights or watch 
both parts on Theater Lovers Saturday, with a lunch 
break in between parts.
During this break you can pay $15 more and eat in the 
Faculty Lounge, or then again theres always the very 
delicious Highlander buffet. Tickets will cost $15 to see just 
Part I or Part II, and $25 to see both. For ticket information, 
call 268-2407.
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Sol called all the right people, said all 
the right things, and got the interview. 
To understate a bit, I was excited. I 
mean, the Spin Doctors are one of my 
favorite bands, and when I saw them 
this summer, they were awesome. Plus, 
the show was on Election Night, and I 
knew Bill was gonna win. So I was 
psyched. I had visions of sitting back
stage drinking beer with the band and 
laughing and talking and cheering as 
the electoral votes trickled in (I knew all 
the Spin Doctors would be Democrats).
Well, I guess you know where this is 
going  for perhaps the millionth time 
in my life, I was disillusioned. It's not 
that the guys in the band werent nice. 
Some of them were. At least they seemed 
nice, judging from what I could hear 
above the banging highhats and rolling 
amps of strike. But that comes later. 
Lets start at the beginning.
The concert (held at Metropol) was 
actually more like a party than a concert
 there were lots of lights on the audi
ence, and the band took a 20-minuto 
break between sets. The show wasnt 
bad. Probably it wasnt as good as the 
last time I saw them, and I was sur
prised that they didnt have more en
ergy, seeing as how it was Election Night 
and all. But thats okay. I mean, every
one has off days, right?
They played all the great songs  
House (which they only do live), Jimmy 
Olsens Blues," and the popular one 
(which really isnt all that great, as far 
as Im concerned) Little Miss Cant Be 
Wrong. They also played a couple of 
new songs which sounded pretty good.
The best part was during Little Miss 
(the encore) when Chris Barron, the 
lead singer, received word that Clinton 
had won the election. He interrupted the 
song for a nice little patriotic celebration 
the band played that Be Kind to Your 
Web-Footed Friends song. Then they 
picked up Little Miss right where they 
had left off. That was pretty cool.
However, most of the fun anyone might 
have had was squelched by the security 
staff. They sucked. If anyone in the crowd 
so much as jumped, security was all over 
them. I personally was not accosted dur
ing the course of the show, but several 
people around me were, and it was not a 
pretty sight. Also, this big huge hairy 
security guy insisted on standing right 
in the middle of the dance floor, and he 
kept giving me these really dirty looks.
Regardless, though, I had a pretty 
good time during the concert and was 
ready to talk to the guys. So after the 
show, I went to the backstage door to, 
well, go backstage. However, I didnt 
have a pass, since I got the interview so 
late in the game, and the bigbad hulking 
idiot at the gate wouldnt let me talk to 
the road manager, as I was told I should 
to gain backstage access. So I gave him 
the evil eye and turned to find the man
ager myself, but the scary dude grabbed 
me and started giving me a hard time. 
Thank God the road manager showed 
up right then or my night might have 
been even more unpleasant.
Jason Richardson (the road manager) 
led the photographer and me backstage 
to the waiting room or whatever, and
said, Okay, Megan, you can talk to 
Aaron [Comess, the drummer] and Mark 
[White, the bassist]. Then some other 
guy came over and asked us for ID, 
because there was beer back there. Af
ter a bit of discussion of this, we ended 
up doing the interview in the hallway.
The hallway where we conducted the 
interview and the hallway they had to 
take all the equipment through were, in 
fact, one and the same. Consequently, 
we all had to project. Which wasnt all 
that bad. At least I can hear everything 
on the tape.
We interviewed Comess first. He was 
nice, and told us lots of interesting stuff.
The Tartan: So how big are you guys?
I mean, when you walk down the street, 
do people stop you and say, Wow! Youre 
a Spin Doctor!
Comess: Lately, thats been happen
ing some. I think its becauso of MTV. 
People see your face more. Weve also 
boon on all those TV shows I Late Night 
With David Letterman, Saturday Night 
Live], Its not to the point whoro wo cant 
go out or anything. But sometimos after 
a show woll go to got some food or 
something, and people will mob us. It's 
kind of weird.
The Tartan: Did you got u chance to 
vote? Who did you support?
Comess: My absentee ballot got 
messed up. I never got it. I was planning 
to vote for Clinton, though. I cant wait 
to hoar what Bush has to say tomorrow. 
Its great. Democracy worked.
The Tartan: How do you lilco touring? 
Comess: We have a good time out on 
the road. Its tiring, but I love playing....
I am looking forward to having some 
time off, though.
The Tartan: You guys have gotten 
really big really fast. I mean, two years 
ago you were playing frat parties, right? 
Whats it been like?
Comess: Well, you know, it hasnt really been like that.... I guess it was 
pretty quick, but weve worked real hard 
to get there. I really feel like wo earned 
it. It wasnt like we just sat around and 
the record just did great. We went out 
there and busted our asses for it.
The Tartan: Whats up with all the 
facial hair? You guys are like a totally 
different band than when you shot the 
CD cover photo.
Comess: [Laughing] Well, you know, 
thats what happens when you go out on 
the road. Everyone stops shaving. When 
you grow your hair long or grow a beard, 
it takes a lot of guts to shave it. I think 
Im stuck like this for a while.
Comess also told us that theres a new 
album coming out, Iiomebelly Groove, 
which will be sort of a mish-mash of 
1991s live EP Up 4 Grabs Live and 
some newer live cuts.
After Comess bowed out, we caught 
White outside. He had interesting things 
to say, too.
The Tartan: What was up with secu
rity? They sucked.
White: No, man, they were great. Se
curity was on the ball. I hate that 
moshing shit. Women always get hurt. 
Wouldnt you rather be dancing butt 
naked with a dude than having him 
bang up against you? Basically, when I 
was in school and we were going to 
clubs, if there was a girlfriend there, 
Please see SPIN DOCTORS, page LU
Monkey House debut shines
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Theres a certain polite wariness with which people approach local music. 
Finding talent among the well-meaning musicians in ones neighborhood is like 
digging up a lost dollar bill from a cluttered drawer  not too common an 
occurrence, though a pleasant surprise when it happens.
Pittsburgh-based Monkey House has given us a dollar among the clutter with 
their recently-released self-titled album. Comprised of present and former stu
dents Ted Coen, Aki Ohshima, Tom Sullivan, and Jim Victor, Monkey House has 
spent two years working on its recording debut, and th e resul t is a respectable work 
with several noteworthy highlights.
After hearing the somewhat hollow first track (What You See), you may be 
tempted to write off Monkey House as another me-tooer in the formula hard rock 
crowd, spouting a few clichs to a frenzied backbeat. But after moving on to the 
successive tracks, it becomes clear that the fuzzy guitar and hissing drums is just 
a front end for some sophisticated musical alchemy that would be impressive in any 
genre.
Monkey House isnt imitating anyone. Though the basic sound is tried and true 
rock n roll, the content is very distinctive. Theres an air of good-natured musical 
integrity reminiscent of the rock of the 60s and 70s, and Monkey House isnt afraid
Please see MONKEY, page Lll

---------------------------------------------------

Do You Care How YOUR 
Money is Spent? |\
Issue: Common Area Damages in Dorms
If no one is found personally responsible for common area damage 
(i.e. broken furniture, discharged fire extinguishers, pulled fire 
alarms, etc.), who should have to pay for it: 
The floor it occurred on 
The building it happened in
The entire residence hall community
The Student Dormitory Council wants YOUR opinion.
This issue will be discussed on:
Wednesday, November 11,7 pm, Wherrett Room
and voted on:
Wednesday, November 18, 7 pm, Wherrett Room
Come and let us know your opinion personally at the meetings, tell an SDC representative in your 
area what you think, or call us at x2114 to express your view, or if you have any questions concern
ing this issue.
i  . .. . I ; '  t   .    j ' - ! ' : V ;  '
x#tsaUmt dC#Cme Cm r ,tACjtmnt Brdd CA r etmtsrd ltlgts UM E-Fi gpc cot MUddUfCme 
rst utcCcCUmtj stustAtmcrcC#tA corc nrm #Uct rc 2tjmtAjra mCeoc lttcCmeA
Boss Hall.:Hamerschlaa House:Morewood E-Tower:Jeffrey Burkex4668Arthur Golax4392Ariye Cohenx4850Brett Fontainex4 668Ni-Fei Hsiehx4332Adam Davisx47 90Chris Gurdyx4 680Arun Jayakumarx4344Mitchel Kotulax4854Sangho Hwangx4 671Manu KumarX4322Yuko Shimizux4925Ivan Laux6018Frank Manx4332Magda StrojwasX4919Tim Murphyx4663Youssef Tumax4859Pascal Renuccix6018Maraaret Morrison Apts:Fred Sabbx6023Serena ChanX5908Mudae House:Ed Stonerx4680Lenna KydesX5950Danielle Friedrichsenx4444Nivanjan Sundananx6023McGill Hall:Sabrina Ganguli Rachael Keeler
X4445
x4503Carol Apartments:Colin BrodskyX4627Nazim Nicex4582Steven Badeltx8660Mary O'Malleyx4580Scott CurtinX8669Morewood Gardens: Vivek Agarwalx4704Resnik:Doherty Apartments:Melanie Balonx4771Derek Rutherfordx4282Derrick Brashearx4276Pamela Fousex4771Garvin Leex4280Iris Leonx4913Shirley :Jeff Minkx4282David Mannx4849Thomas Lamonicax4698Hung Nguyenx427 9Ally McCunneyX3972Mark Pizzurrox4250Stacie Pennypackerx3944Welch :Amy PotthastX4733Yazid Fadlx4233Donner Hall:Steven VerboskyX4393Holley Anstattx4025West Winer:Jessica ChalifouxX4029Scobell:Laurie ModellX8324John DiCosolax4084Jeremy Toemanx4199Chris Stengelx8372Yaman FadlX4100Michael Harrisx4192Daniel GiammarX4119Woodlawn Apartments:Heidi GilbertX4043Brenda BurkeX4443Karen Grunbergx4025Matthew SimonX4126
SDC - Dedicated to improving life in the Residence Halls
Special thanks to the Housing Office for helping to sponsor this ad

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992111
Cheesy decor and curry 
sampled at Taste of India
By RUTH RASMUSSEN
Tartan Asst. Forum Editor 
& CESAR SANCHEZ 
Tartan Photo Editor
In a place that rates kolbasi 
and pierogies as high cuisine, 
Pittsburgh is not exactly the 
culinary capital of the world. 
The majority ofthe food here is 
dull, bland, and mediocre at 
best, with some hard-to-fmd 
exceptions. One of these excep
tions is Taste of India, a fabu
lous ethnic restaurant located 
on Penn Avenue.
As soon as we stepped inside, 
we were struck by a wall of 
overpowering smells of curries 
and spices. We were given wa
ter and a basket of papamdom s 
(basically large spicy hot torti
lla chips), with two interesting-looking dips. One bowl 
was filled with a bright orange 
pickled onion dip that was 
rather good. Another held a 
scary-looking green dip that 
actually was great for cutting 
down the spiciness ofthe chips.
While munching on the 
papamdoms, letting our noses 
get accustomed to the smells, 
and basically being obnoxious, 
we browsed through the menu. 
With such dish names as lamb 
boti kebab masala and baigan 
bharta, we knew that at the 
minimum, this would be a highrisk culinary experience. But 
this also worked as a plus. It 
meant that there would be 
much more to choose from than 
just the clich curry.
After waiting for 15 minutes 
to order (a definite minus), our 
non-adventurous friend or
dered the chicken curry ($6.50). 
After talking our other com
panion out ofthe chicken curry, 
(so that we would have more to 
taste) we convinced him to be 
more adventurous and get the 
lamb vindaloo (lamb pieces 
cookedin a sharply spiced gravy 
and served with potatoes  
$7.50). We split the tandoori 
dinner, which included: a veg
etable samosa, chicken 
tandoori, lamb curry, chick 
peas, rice, bread, dessert, tea 
or coffee ($11.95). One of us 
ordered a mango lassi, a sweet 
yogurt drink with rose water, 
the other had a Sprite  quite 
the culinary thirst quenchr. 
Didnt we mention the adven
ture factor? says Cesar. Hey, 
I just like Sprite! says Ruth.
Anticipating slow service and 
knowing that we had to leave 
soon, we asked if we could be 
served quickly. Surprisingly, 
we were served within fifteen 
minutes. Adefinite plus! says 
Ruth.
The waiter brought out a siz
zling dish, which reminded 
Ruth of fajitas, that had our 
chicken with lightly sauteed 
onions and green peppers. The 
onions and green peppers were 
cooked to perfection, wonder
fully warm on the outside, still 
crispy in the middle (sort of
like perfect broccoli, saysRuth 
) The chicken was cooked to 
perfection juicy, yet cooked 
all of the way through. This 
wasnt just because of the 
method, because we have been 
served rubbery tandoori 
chicken at other Indian restau
rants.
This wasnt all. We were 
served lamb curry and a chick 
pea paste in little silver bowls, 
ordered at a spiciness level of 
five on a scale ofl to 10. Could 
have been hotter, says Cesar. 
Yea, yea, Im a wimp, says 
Ruth. It didnt look like a lot of 
food, but with the accompani
ments, there was more than 
enough for two hungry review
ers.
All of this was accompanied 
by fragrant jasmine rice (our 
waiter refilled the rice plate 
without us asking) and lots of 
Nan bread, kind of like pita 
bread, but warm and soft, 
charcoaled, very highly recom
mended. We ate until we were 
both full to the point of burst
ing and satisfied. Our dish was 
very good and a good sampler, 
especially if youve not had 
much chance to dip your feet 
into the Indian culinary expe
rience.
And what about the other 
dishes? The vindaloo got two 
big thumbs up from all of us, 
our friends venture into the 
world of culinary adventure re
warded. The curry, ordered at 
a spiciness of 10, was quite 
good, although not as hot as 
our friend had anticipated. Of 
course after all the nose-run
ning that was taking place on 
the table, it was hard to tell 
what wasnt hot on the table.
Remember the phrase, you 
cant judge a book by its cover? 
The same goes for Taste of In
dia. The decor is cheesy. The 
decor was highlighted by the 
gaudy clock hanging over the 
door. But this was just per
sonal taste,because as ourmore 
adventurous friend said, Cool 
clock. Whats wrong with 
gaudy? Laughter followed. The 
check was brought to us 
quickly, laying on top of a little 
black plastic tray (What, were 
not good enough for silver any
more? questions Cesar) filled 
with anise seeds.
We drove back to campus af
ter a good Indian meal, and 
decided to visit again under 
less pressured circumstances. 
Dont wait to hear from us to 
tell you where to eat, be adven
turous and keep feeding your 
face until next week.
4320 Penn Avenue (412) 681-7700
RATINGS (out of five ducks) Food: 4.5 Price: 4Atmosphere: 3.5 Service: 3.5Distance from CMU: 2OVERALL: 4 ducks
LIVE, LEARN & INTERN 
IN WASHINGTON, D.C. THIS SUMMER
THE INSTITUTE ON COMPARATIVE POLITICAL AND 
ECONOMIC SYSTEMS 
THE INSTITUTE ON POLITICAL JOURNALISM 
THE BRYCE HARLOW INSTITUTE ON BUSINESS 
AND GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY, JUNE 9-JULY 24, 1993
Undergraduate students with a strong interest in political science, eco
nomics, international relations, journalism or business will want to apply 
to one of these unique six-week programs. Based at Georgetown Univer
sity. each Institute combines:
 Coursework
 Internships
 Lecture/Discussion 
Sessions
D Site Briefings
 Special Events
1/
THE APPLICATION DEADLINES ARE:
I/i 1/93 EARLY DECISION ? 3/15/93 REGULAR DECISION 
NUMEROUS SCHOLARSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE
FR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE FUND FOR AMERICAN STUDIES 
^ I S26 I BTH STREET, N.W., WASHINGTON, D.C. 20036 (202) 986-0384
Spin Doctors rock the house with hard funk at Metropol
SPIN DOCTORS from pago L9
youd get right up against her and start going like that [he starts to 
grind]. Ive never seen anybody do that at any of our shows.
The Tartan: So what have yall been up to lately, besides touring 
and stuff?
White: Last night we did a show on the radio  it was called Love 
Lines. People were calling up and talking about some fucked-up shit, 
like this guy who slept with his girlfriends mother.
The Tartan: You should be on Oprah. Youd have fun.
White: I wanna be on a show with some bad-ass ladies.
The Tartan: Like the Lita Ford show?
White: Yeah.... Im girl-crazy. I dont like talking to any guys. If I 
see em, I try to run away. Im trying to bring back the old days when 
everybody was girl-crazy.
White told us quite a bit about his views on women.
White: Cindy Crawfords too skinny. I dont like no skinny-ass 
models. I like American Gladiator women.... I know its putrid and 
hateful and disgusting, but you need to look at a Hustler magazine. 
Hustler has well-endowed women. But when you look at a Vogue 
magazine, the women look like poles.... These magazines are a 
womans view of what women should look like, and a Hustler 
magazine is what a man thinks a woman should look like. [To 
passersby] Hey, yall an item? [They nod and laugh] You two go 
home, get butt naked, and do it. Try a new position tonight.... [Back 
to photographer and me] Yall think Im a sexist chauvinist pig 
asshole from hell, dont you?
The Tartan: I wouldnt say youre from hell.
White: Im a feminist, man. Im for womens rights. I think women 
should be treated equal. I think they should be tough like men, but 
men are fuckingup the country. If women were as strong as men, this
Monkey House shines on
MONKEY HOUSE from L9
to risk shorter attention spans 
with extended instrumentals.
The entire album seems written 
in an experimental vein, with 
some efforts going off the mark, 
but quite a few hitting home.
Quite a lot of diversity is stuffed 
into the albums 13 tracks. The 
second piece, Go, mixes a driv
ing verse and some intriguing 
instrumental segments that 
color the song with a ongoing 
piano motif. Tm On The Outside is somewhat more gentle 
and airy, and has a lazy playful
ness thats reminiscent of old 
Genesis. Anything builds its 
yearning chorus from a slightly 
dissonant Billy Idol style verse.
There are a few stagnant plod
ders here and there. Spanish 
Painters is far too long, and a 
bit pretentious. Dancing Back
wards and some ofthe side-two 
songs dont have enough energy 
or melodic strength to sustain 
interest.
On the other hand, the two 
strongest tracks are genuine eyebrow-raisers that alone justify 
the purchase of the album.
Shamoo has an unexpected 
harmonic leap into the chorus 
thats pure dynamite and paints 
a moving atmosphere with eerie 
whale-like effects. And National 
Defense is an energetic blitz
krieg of guitar, with a compel
ling layer of synth urgency and a 
great bridge that youre likely to 
be humming days afterwards.
The sound of the band is pow
erful but clean. While guitar, 
bass, and drums are the staple, 
keyboards tastefully highlight 
certain phrases and flesh out 
the songs considerably. Percus
sion is strong, although cymbals 
are laid on a bit too thick, creatcountry would be n lot different.
[Looking at the tape recorder.] Are 
you taping all this?
(Yawn). I tried to steer him to 
other topics of conversation, like the 
band, music, politics, anything. But 
I succeeded only twice  once he 
told us about his quest for a 
Macintosh Power Book, and how 
the store would not take American 
Express and the other time he shared 
his views on the recent election 
([Bush] fucking took advantage of 
the American people). Mostly he 
just wanted to talk about how girlcrazy he was.
There was some excitement when screamsa page yelled at the lead singer for not drinking the soy milk shed 
gone so far out of her way for, but he told her he would drink it on 
the bus, then looked over at us and said, Im a vegetarian. I need my 
protein. Yeah, whatever, rock star. Im going home.
I guess my expectations were just too high.
I mean, if youre thinking something awesome is going to happen 
and something only okay happens, youre going to be disappointed, 
right?
Guess I just need to get a little more jaded, act a little more cool. 
I mean, lets be realisticrock stars are just normal people. Theyre 
not gods, or even idols. They never asked to be looked up to. I guess 
I just wish that they hadnt convinced me of that fact quite so 
emphatically.
Ruth Rasmussen/TartanAsst Forum Editor The Spin Doctors lead singer
ing an unpleasant background 
tinniness sometimes.
The weakest link in the music 
is the vocals. While singer Coens 
voice is certainly adequate, it 
doesnt stand out in the fore
ground so much as seem like an
other instrument in the mix. The 
effect is worsened by the lyrics of 
most ofthe songs, which are more 
suggestive than meaningful.
All in all, Monkey House is a 
formidable effort, and the parts 
that dont overwhelm serve at 
least to pique ones curiosity. You 
get a real sense here of the 
songwriters practicing their craft, 
rather than a bunch of musicians 
trying to mimic their way into 
the commercial mainstream. 
Considering the humble price of 
the album ($6, available at local 
record stores or directly from 
Monkey House at (412) 682-5627) 
its certainly worth checking out. 
Pick up a copy and hear some of 
the best of what local music has 
to offer.
Monday, , Night is
at
Gappy s
Stop in lor the game and enjoy 
Special Prices on all oi our 
Imported Beer.CJtag
5431 Walnut St., Shadyside 621-1 IRR
(\P(jUflLeK*4t
II H A roitfTFARK /CGtGETRADmOtl
POINT PARK COLLEGE THEATRE COMPANY
presenti
November 4-22 
Call
(412) 621-4445
(Viio/MC)  Also at T1X
A farcical comedy
by Peter Horsier 
Directed by Kathryn Aronson
1m cot Lotrcst -UfmAcrC
Tickets: $7
rc cot GdraoUpAt 
IUq SMMCnt
ON THE VERGE at the 222 Craft Avenue, Pjjh, PA 15213
STUDENT half-price tickets, 1/2 hour beforcshow ^-
( !-------------------------- ---------------------
I $3.99 Large > $2.00 off I $5.99 Large
Plain Pizza j Any Large j Plain Pizza
. Everyday with coupon | Gourmet Pizza Everyday with coupon
Pick-up only j Pick-up or Delivery , Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
I$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
$9.95 plus tax _ Delivery__
I 2 MedPizzas + 
I 1 topping on 
I each for $10.50
I plus tax 
I Delivery or Pick-up
Hawaiian Pizza
Special
S8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
'I
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
I Sm White Pizza 
I & Tossed Salad Only $4.99
i Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer.
Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET687-9555190 N. Craig St.
ORGANIC AND NATURAL POODS MARKET VEGETARIAN CAF
ORGANICS... OUR SPECIALTY
Produce  Grains  Cheese 
Cereals  Peanut Butter  Juices 
Cookies  Chips  Soy Products 
and much more!
WE SUPPORT
 local and organic farmers 
 community ownership 
 ecological shopping 
 healthy lifestyles
EVERYONE WELCOME!
242-3598
In The Factory  Penn &: Braddock Avc. 
Mon.-Fri. 10am-8pm 
Sat. 10am-6pm
Sun. Noon-5pm

---------------------------------------------------

BUDGETS
These numbers represent the subsidies proposed by 
Senate's Funding and Recognition Committee. These 
will be considered at the Student Senate meeting, No
vember 17, at 7 PM in the Wherrett Room. All students 
are welcome to attend.
Carnival$49,700
Celtic Society$207
CIA$4857
Crew$28,185
Cycling$484
Doctors of Carnegie$2105
EMS$2480
Fencing$1220
Filmaking Club$1000
Fringe$2415
Gaming Club$289
Health Awareness$1974
IRO$400
Juggling Club$320
KSA$389 X
Lacrosse$50\
Mac Users Group$520
Oakland Review$2000
Pioneers$1991
Robotics$300
Scotch 'N' Soda$4933
Sweepstakes$16,450
Triathlon$2450
Women's Lacrosse$543
ELECTIONS
Student Senate Elections aren't 
over yet, dammit! So get off 
your butt and get out and vote 
(if you didn't today). Polls are 
open tomorrow, Tuesday, from 
9 AM to 5 PM. The polling 
place will be the Fence if the 
weather's good, or in Gray 
Matter if the weather's bad. 
Remember, we are electing:
3 CFA  6 CIT  3 GSIA 
2 Heinz  2 H&SS  1IM 
2 MCS  1 Miscellaneous 
2 SCS
Funded by the Student Activities Fee.
Political Speakers Forum Board Presents:
Discrimination
Against Gays & Lesbians 
by ROTC and The Military
JOSEPH STEFFAN
Joseph Steffan was near the top of his class at the Naval Academy at Annapolis, 
but was kicked out just before graduation after it was discovered that he is gay.
Monday, November 16, 8 pm, Skibo Ballroom
EpuuUsctj ga HUps Ecpjtmc hncC#CcCtA .tt

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  9 November 1992L13
Mini reviews  Mini reviews  Mini reviews  Mini review
Thursday, November 12British Animation
Nobody seems to know much about what this movie is. This means one of two things. Either this is an obscure cartoon-lovers film that only such people would recognize or the folks at AB are looking for new and creative ways to spend your activities fee.Judging from the title, I would assume that this is a bunch of cartoons from or about Great Britain. Nobody Ive talked has ever even seen a British cartoon, except that one: Simon, where little kid sings that song : Well, you know my name is Simon, and I like to draw drawings... Its the one that Macauley Caulkin did a parody of on Saturday 
Night Live where they kept saying Stop looking at my bum! It was rather cute. Maybe theyll have those cartoons like on Monty Pythons Flying Cir
cus, with the foot that comes out of the sky and crushes everything, those are pretty darn hilarious.Oh yeah! The cartoon! Anyway if nothing else, maybe youll see an AB poster up somewhere, which might tell you why you might wanna go see those silly Brits do their wacky, wild British Animation thing. Or then again, this does show on a Thursday night, and not much beats the Simpsons. Maybe they should just show that.At 6, 8,10 pm.
Friday, November 13
Sneakers
Critics have claimed that this movie is a perfect blend of comedy, action, and suspense, not to mention an all star cast.
Sneakers is the story of ex-con professional hackers who break into banks for a living. They stumble onto a plot that involves the CIA, Mafia, KGB, NSA, and the FBI. All the characters, good and bad, race to obtain a black box, a computer system which breaks every code in the world.Starring Robert Redford, River Phoenix, Dan Aykroyd, Sydney Portier, Mary McDonald, Ben Kingsley, and with a special surprise appearance at the end, Sneakers is must-see for all you wouldbe hackers.Well, it may not be the world's greatest suspense film, but what other film has River Phoenix asking, That young lady over there with the Uzi, is she single?At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, November 14
Patriot Games
Patriot Games is the perfect who dunnit? movie. It constantly keeps a person guessing with its complicated plot and characters. The continual suspense of international terrorism is overwhelming, keeping a person on the edge of their seat.This action thriller came from the same producer as The Hunt For Red October and Dead Calm. Its also the second of the films based on Tom Clancy novels with protagonist Jack Ryan.This time the Ryan family is vacationing in England, and Jack, played by Harrison Ford, once again finds himself entangled in CIA escapades. As a result of Ryan saving the day, he places his family in jeopardy because they are targeted by the terrorist group. The plot continues killing off more and more people. The terrorists come to the U.S. pursuing Ryan, his wife, Anne Archer, and their daughter in the hopes of finding and killing them.Since this is a suspense thriller, no more will be stated, but this movie is definitely worth your $1.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Sunday, November 15
Hells Angels on Wheels
Well, the title is self-explanatory. In other words, it is a bike flick starring Jack Nicholson, Adam Roarke, and Sabrina Scharf. Even movie guides do not recommend this film, but if you have nothing better to do, why not go?At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
By BARBARA REYES & ANDY VAUGHAN
Fop Will Eat 
Itself
Lot OUUkA Us 
cot OCMtAcadt
After a two-year wait, the Brit
ish underground band, Pop Will 
Eat Itself (PWEI), has released 
its fourth full-length album, The 
Looks or the Lifestyle. PWEI has 
outdone itself again with this one.
Though the wait between the 
previous album, The Pop Will 
Eat Itself Cure for Sanity, and 
The Looks or the Lifestyle was a 
little long for me (I was begin
ning to worry about the status of 
my second-favorite band in the 
world), it turned out to be worth 
the wait. The incredible PWEI 
has yet again taken its own 
unique sensibilities, combined 
their musical weirdness with a 
popular new genre, and come up 
with a hybrid that cant be beat. 
This influence of techno music is 
evident on such tracks as Urban 
Futuristic and Bulletproof."
Other tracks, such as 
Karmadrome and Eat Me 
Drink Me Love Me Kill Me 
harken more to a sort of EMF-ish 
hard-pop sound but are far and 
away better than that group of 
New Kids wannabes.
Eminently danceable and com
pletely listenable, Eat Me Drink 
Me Love Me Kill Me deals with 
a common subject in PWEI tunes, 
alcohol addiction. As early as 
their first LP, Go Box Frenzy, the 
Poppies have been singing about 
this problem, apparently a very 
personal one.
This time, they compare the 
problem to that of other addic
tions, such as John Belushis fa
tal cocaine habit. I could be dead 
at 33 like Belushi, is screamed 
over a background of wailing 
guitars.
Other standout tracks include 
the Oedipal weirdness of 
Mother, and the inexplicablynamed Harry Dean Stanton.
courtesy of RCA Records
Why a song about a really, really 
lousy year (In 1991 got glasses, 
cousin got murdered, friend got 
attacked, house next door to ours 
got ransacked again ... ) is 
named after a little-known char
acter actor is beyond me, but 
then, this is not unusual for the 
Poppies.
All in all, The Looks or the 
Lifestyle is truly another great 
effort. If youre already familiar 
with PWEI, you should be happy 
with The Looks or the Lifestyle. 
If youre not already a Poppies 
fan, what are you waiting for? 
Go out and grab this today!
Brendan MeFeely
King Diamond
h -rmetsUpA vttcCme
courtesy of RoadRunner
It was in 1985 that a Danish 
singer named Kim Bendix 
Petersen began an amazing solo 
career with a band named for his 
better known stage' monicker, 
King Diamond. Emerging from 
the continental underground and 
invading the American record
ing industry, King Diamond re
leased six albums of the most 
grueling and disgusting horrorconcept metal ever heard. This 
brought attention to the band 
that launched Kings singing ca
reer, an underground psuedosatanist band called Mercyful 
Fate. Now the best of both bands 
is available to the true metal fan 
on a new best-of album, A Dan
gerous Meeting.
A warning to the virgin deathmetal listener: King Diamond of 
any era is characterized by long 
complex stretches of guitar pep
pered with Kings distinctive high 
falsetto voice and demon growl
ing. King Diamond is an acquired 
taste.
Side one of the album is all 
Mercyful Fate songs from 1982- 
1984, most of them never heard 
by mainstream metal fans in the 
U.S. before. Since King Dia
monds voice is less than refined 
on these early tracks, the focus of 
this side is the stunning guitar 
work by Hank Sherman and 
Michael Denner. Their soloing is 
evenly divided between the two, 
whose individual styles keep the
music interesting, a bit remi
niscent of the democratic guitar 
styles that made bands liko Ju
das Priest and Iron Maiden more 
popular over other bands with 
lead/rhythm guitar distinctions. 
Their style is also more daring 
than other bands of the era who 
played similar music; a 12-string 
acoustic guitar pops up unex
pectedly on songs like Into The 
Coven and Come to the 
Sabbat, to insert a bit of ba
roque fugue amid distorted elec
tric riffs. And big seven minute 
epic songs like A Corpse With
out Soul demonstrate the cre
ativity of European guitarists 
in general, who were free from 
the commercial pressures that 
bands in the U.S. were subjected 
to in the early 80s. Overall, the 
music on this side is just as fun 
and purposeless as anythingyou 
care to label Satanic. This is 
true heavy metal, something for 
air-guitaring, not for learning 
catchy lyrics.
Where King really shines is 
the second side, where the best 
material from his solo career is 
showcased. No longer limited to 
individual songs about death 
and demons in his own band, 
Kang took the medium to new 
heights by creating huge con
cept LPs, albums with charac
ters and plot lines that develop 
as each song is played. King 
expanded his horizons incorpo
rating humor, dialogue, and the 
keyboard playing of Robert 
Falcao to make his music less 
formulaic and more horrific. 
Some of the best is here, like the 
chilling Welcome Home from 
his album THEM, a song telling 
the fictional story a child (oddly 
enough also named King Dia
mond) greeting his demon-worshipping grandmother who has 
just been released from a sani
tarium. Also there is Kings clas
sic song Halloween, from the 
album Fatal Portrait, and his 
first solo song, the tongue-incheek screamer No Presents 
for Christmas. And no King Dia
mond best-of would be complete 
without the breakthrough song 
that made his career, Sleepless 
Nights, the song that made it 
into the Z-Rock Fifty and de
fined his style for metal fans on 
both sides of the Atlantic.
Sadly, in both bands the 
rhythm sectionis all butignored, 
bass and drums being limited to 
clich and guitar doubling. The 
lyrics on side one are a bit re
petitive as well (Satan ... Hell 
... candles ... curse ... ). But 
overall the album is a fairly complete collection of King 
Diamonds best songs, from the 
ridiculous to the truly Satanic. 
Kendrick K. Chua
The Last of j 
the Mohicans j
The Last of the Mohicans is I 
adapted from the James Fenn-1 
imore Cooper novel. The main; 
character is Hawkeye (Daniel\ 
Day-Lewis), a white man who; 
was adopted by Chingachgook; 
(Russell Means)at the ageoftwo! 
or three. He is raised with! 
Chingachgooks son, Uncas (Eric 
Schweig). The rapport between ' 
these characters is strong, and 
the family relationship are very i 
believable.
The movie is set during the 
French and Indian Wars. The J 
plot gets rolling when Cora and I 
Alice Munro (Madeleine Stowe! 
and Jodhi May, respectively) try  
to meet their father, a British  
officer, at Fort William Henry.  
Along the way, they are ambushed by a war party of Native; 
Americans who are working for; 
the French. They are saved by' 
Hawkeye and his family, who  
agree to escort thom to Fort Wili 
liam Henry.
Cora, who is attracted to  
Hawkeye, finds herself at odds  
with somo of his Native Ameri
can ways. As sho tries to undor-; 
stand him, they fall in love. A; 
parallel lovo story between Alico  
and Uncas is given less scroon ! 
time but adds to tho film. When 
they finally arrivo at tho fort,! 
they find it under siego. The ac
tion intensifies from thoro, but 
to toll much moro of tho plot 
would only spoil tho many sur-; 
prises of the film.
The cinematography was beuu-; 
tiful. From the opening scone in 
a dense forest to tho ending on a 1 
mountain top, the movie is keeps ! 
the suspense level high. The char-1 
acters are so realistic that you j 
dont want any of them to die. | 
I have to commend the writers ; 
for their portrayal of Cora. Its. 
not very often that you see such ; 
an intelligent and courageous! 
woman in the movies. This is not ! 
a woman who passively stands 
back and lets the men protect' 
her. In the action scenes, she 
defends herself and her sister,; 
even killing a man in defense. ;
The action scenes are gory. 
When someone is scalped, you, 
see it in graphic detail. The hor! 
rors of war are shown explicitly. \ 
DirectorMichaelMannhasput! 
together a finely-crafted film that . 
I cant recommend highly;! 
enough.
 Jennifer Forbes
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES. 
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET i 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a J
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering i
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, ! 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.
$ui |
(412) 441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free K00-767-848;' j
16" Cheese 
Pizza
$3.49
Why pay more 
when you can get 
the best for less?
Original Hot Dog Shop 
3901 Forbes Avenue 
621-0435 /
SHORT & SUITE

---------------------------------------------------

SENMUi
Admission to all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admission 
to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, located at 
222 Craft Avenue, is $5.
The Best Intentions continues at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse each evening through 
November 25. Show time is 7 pm nightly.
British Animation plays in DH 2210 on 
Thursday. Shows are at 6, 8,10, and mid
night.
Sneakers shows in DH 2210 on Friday at 6, 
8,10, and midnight.
Patriot Games plays in DH 2210 on Satur
day at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
HelVs Angels on Wheels plays in DH 2210 
bn Sunday. Show times are 6, 8, 10, and 
midnight.
*' -I
Harrison Ford (left) plays CIA Analyst Jack Ryan who, along with his family, gets swept into the deadliest game of our time  International terrorism  in 
Patriot Games, which Is based on Tom Clancy's best-selling novel. This actkKvthriller will play in DH 2210 on Saturday at 6, 8, 10, and midnight.
__________01992 Paramount Pictures Corporation
Foreign language tables sponsored by 
the Modern Language Program will be held 
each week of the Fall semester. Mondays: 
Hebrew Language Table (sponsored by 
Hillel) 11:30-1:00 in More wood Cafeteria; 
Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de (Japanese 
Brown Bag Lunch) at 12:00 in BH 160; 
Tuesdays: Russkii Chas (Russian) 12:00- 
1:30 in Morewood Cafeteria; Wednesdays: 
La Table Franaise (French) 11:30-1:15 in 
Morewood Cafeteria; La Mesa Espaola 
(Spanish) 11:30-1:00 in Morewood Cafete
ria; Thursdays: DeutscherStammtisch (Ger
man) 11:30-12:45 in Morewood Cafeteria.
Are you a vegetarian or interested in 
learning more about vegetarianism? CMU 
Vegetarians has a variety of informative 
literature and cookbooks available on re
serve in Hunt Library.
Orientation 93 planning is underway. 
Counselor applications are available in the 
Office of Student Affairs. Contribute ideas 
by posting on assocs.orientation93. Contact 
Tony DeRoss at x4649 for information.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermodynamics, 
06-201 Transport II, 09-245 Physical Chem
istry, 15-123 Intro to Programming & Ap
plications (H&SS), 18-133 Intro to Digital 
Systems, 24-101 Intro to Mechanical Engi
neering, 24-121 Thermodynamics 1,24-141 
Statics and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World History, 
85-100 Cognitive Process, and 88-103 Deci
sion Making. CMAP tutoring takes place 
Sunday through Thursday from 6-9 pm in 
220 Smith Hall. Call x2150 for more infor
mation.
The Volunteer Babysitting Network is
looking for students/parents in financial 
need of free childcare and students, staff, 
and faculty interested helping student/par
ents through babysitting. For more infor
mation, call or write David Pegher at x4840, 
Box 1107, or email dp31.
official.career-center is a bboard in its 
second year of operation on which you can 
access occupational outlook data, workshop 
information, new Career Library book no
tices, campus interview postings, and job 
leads for school year/off campus, summer 
and professional employment. Everyone is 
encouraged to subscribe.
The Career Center Library is open Mon
days and Thursdays from 5 pm to 7 pm, in 
addition to regular weekday office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshops on mental phe
nomena every Monday at 7 pm at the Soci
ety of Friends Meeting House, 4836 
Ellsworth Avenue. Donation of $1 accepted. 
For more information, call Bill King at 276- 
1768.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 
1507, will have open office hours for stu
dents from 2-3 pm each Tuesday and Fri
day until December 15. During these times, 
a staff member is available to discuss legal
problems, such as security deposits and 
leases, that are related to University life. 
They will not provide legal assistance for 
personal legal matters but can make refer
rals to attorneys in private practice.
The Womens Center Collective holds 
meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 pm in the 
CMU Womens Center. Contact Shel 
Strictland at x3595 for information.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds it meetings Tuesdays at 5 pm in the 
Tartan loft. For more information, email 
db74 or jt3y.
Student Senate meetings are every Tues
day in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. All 
members of the campus community are 
welcome to attend and speak during audi
ence participation.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a nondenominational student study group for 
those seeking insights into who they are, a 
change of being, and a livable philosophy, 
holds regular meetings on Tuesdays at 7 pm 
at the Cathedral of Learning Room 236. For 
more information, call 343-1907.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women's 
Discussion Group meets every Tuesday 
at 7:30 pm in the CMU Womens Center. 
Questioning? Positively sure? Come to the 
discussion group for friendly talk and fun.
The Christian Science Organization at
CMU meets every Tuesday at 8 pm in Slubo 
13. If you are a Christian Scientist, or are 
interested in learning more about Chris
tian Science, please stop by and find out 
what were all about.
Model and M.C. Tryouts for the Spirit 
Fashion Show will be held on Tuesday 
and Wednesday at 8 pm in the Ballroom. 
Men should wear dress shoes and women 
should wear high heels. All are welcome.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets Tues
days at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 pm in 
Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. 
Learn traditional Okinawan Karate. Be
ginners are welcome.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds 
meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the 
Wherrett Room. For more information, call 
x2114.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop, spon
sored by the University of Pittsburgh, meets 
every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor 
conference room of the Oakland Carnegie 
Library. The group is an open forum for 
writers and writers-to-be and includes Pitt 
and CMU students and alumni. For more 
information, call 421-8140.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is held 
on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the Israel 
room (337) at The Cathedral of Learning. 
Free of charge. Call Rabbi Shmuel Weinstein 
at 683-7770 for more information.
The Association for Life will hold a meet
ing on Wednesday at 8 pm in Skibo 201. 
Former Pittsburgh Steeler quarterback Rick 
Strom will speak on his pro-life beliefs. All 
are welcome.
National Society of Black Engineers
general body meetings will be held every 
other Wednesday beginning this week (No
vember 11) at the CMAP complex. For more 
information, call Rick Gilmore at x4804.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have fun
while getting involved in business activi
ties at CMU. We offer BOC and opportuni
ties for business contacts. All majors are 
welcome. Question? Call Aurora at x8310.
The Schenley Park Ice Skating Rink
opens on Friday at 7 pm. Admission is $3; 
skate rental is $1.50. College ID Night is 
scheduled every Tuesday evening from 9:30- 11:30 pm, and admission is $1.50. For more 
information on daily hours and reserva
tions for parties, call 422-6523.
The AEPi Third Annual Wing-A-Thon
will be held on Wednesday, November 19, in 
the Ballroom. Come and show your support 
for your favorite student organizations. All 
proceeds go to the Juvenile Diabetes Foun
dation. For more information, call Burt 
Holzman at x4729.
Thom Droeges photography from Brit
tany, France, will be exhibited at the South 
Side Silver Eye Center for Photography 
through Saturday. For more information, 
caU 431-1810.
Migrations of Meaning, an exhibit 
which explores the interaction among Afri
can, Indian, and European tradition and 
the contemporary art of the America and 
the Caribbean, will be displayed at the 
National Gallery of the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts through December 27. For more 
information, call 361-0873.
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at the 
Chabad House on Friday evenings at sun
down and on Saturdays at 2 pm. Call Sara 
Weinstein at 683-7770 for more informa
tion.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) at 
5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner fol
lowing. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and Tech 
House invite all students to a Bible Study 
at Tech House every Tuesday from 5-6 pm. 
For more information, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy cel
ebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm 
in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. Week
end masses are celebrated at 7 pm Satur
day and 10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main 
auditorium. For more information, call The 
Oratory at 681-3181.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm at 
The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. Aiayone 
wishing to inquire into the Roman Catholic 
faith is welcome to attend. For more infor
mation, call Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community Church invites all students to join other 
young adults in contemporary, casual, and 
uplifting services on Sundays at 11 am in 
the Central Christian Church located at the 
corner of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. 
Dithridge). For more information, call 621- 
6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) welcomes all students to join those 
who worship, serve, and fellowship there. 
They hold services on Sundays with a Eu
charist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30 
am, and morning worship at 11:30 am in the 
chapel located on the corner of Ellsworth 
and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also 
held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more 
information, contact campus minister Hank 
Suhr at 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds 
worship service Sundays at 11 am, college 
class at 9:45 am. Shadyside College Fellow
ship is on Fridays at 6:30 pm. Contact Dan 
Moss or Annette Ediger at 682-4300.
Free Spiritual Information Packet on
ECKANKAR, Religion of the Light and 
Sound of God. Call 271-4972.
Theater
Dames at Sea, performed by the Play, 
house Theatre Company, continues at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse (222 Craft Avenue) 
through Sunday. Tuesday through Saturi 
day performances begin at 8 pm; Sunday 
performances are at 2 pm and 7 pm. Tickets i 
are $16 and $20. For more information and 
reservations, call 622-4445.
Mad Forest will be presented by the Uni! 
versity of Pittsburgh Theatre on Tuesday, 
Thursday, and Saturday at 8 pm and Sun! 
day at 2 pm at the Stephen Foster Memorial I 
Theatre. Tickets are $6 and $8. For infor
mation and reservations, call 624-PLAY.
The Rover will be presented by the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Theatre on Wednesday 
and Friday at 8 pm in the Stephen Foster 
Memorial Theatre. Tickets are $6 and $8. 
For more information and reservations, call 
624-PLAY.
Nicholas Nickleby (Parts I&II), performed 
by the CMU Drama Department, opens a 
the Kresge Theatre on Saturday and runs ] 
through December 12. For ticket informa
tion, call x2407.
Reality Optional, Pittsburghs first allimprovisational company, will perform at. 
the Artery (5847 Ellsworth Avenue in 
Shadyside) on Saturday at 8 pm. Tickets 
are $5 at the door.
> Stout, a native Pittsburgher and 
autobiographer willbeatthe Special Project 
Gallery of the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts through December 27. For more infor
mation, call 361-0873.
Buyer's Guide to Gems: Color Communication in Gemstones will be pre
sented at The Carnegie Tuesday through 
Thursday from 7-9:30 pm each night. Tu
ition is $33 for members and $39 for non
members. To register, call 622-3288.
Filmmaker Philip Haas will present two 
of his film which examine African artists 
working in traditional cultures on Thurs
day at 5:30 pm at The Carnegies Museum 
of Art Theater. Admission is $5 for adults, 
$4 for members, students, and senior citi
zens. For more information, call 622-3212.
Lectures
The Man Who Would Be Poet: Rudyard 
Kipling will be presented by Michael York 
on Wednesday at 8 pm in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Sponsored by the Interna
tional Poetry Forum. Tickets are $12; stu-j 
dents and senior citizens can attend for $6. 
For information/reservations, call 621-9
The Absolute Experience: The Auto
biography of a Zen Master will be given 
by Richard Rose on Thursday at 7:30 pm in 
the William Pitt Student Union Ballroom. 
Sponsored by the Self Knowledge Sympo
sium. For more information, call Mike at
683-4139 or Paul at 343-1907.
The Silver Eye Center for Photogra
phy will present award-winning Pittsburgh 
Press photographers Randy Olson and Steve 
Mellon on Thursday at 7:30 pm. They will 
discuss photojournalism and their work 
which is included in The 49th Pictures of 
the Year, currently being displayed at Sil
ver Eye (1015 East Carson Street). Admis
sion is $2 for members and $4 for non
members. For information, call 431-1810. :The Carnegie Mellon Trio will perform 
on Tuesday at 8 pm at the Mellon Institute 
auditorium. Tickets are $15.
The Carnegie Mellon Philarmonic Orchestra will perform on Friday at 8 pm at 
the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are $5.
The River City Brass Band will perform 
A Sousa Celebration" on Wednesday at Mt. 
Lebanon High School in South Hills, Friday 
at Carson Middle School in McCandless, 
and Saturday at the Palace Theater in 
Greensburg. All concerts begin at 8 pm. For 
information/reservations call 322-RCBB.
Musica Antiqua Kln, Germanys pre
mier chamber ensemble, will perform on 
Friday and Saturday at 8 pm in Synod Hall, 
125 N. Craig Street. Sponsored by The Re
naissance and Baroque Society. Student 
can attend for $5. Call 682-7262 for tickets.
Hie Carnegie Mellon Student Opera 
presents Die Fledermaus, which will be 
performed on November 14,15,21, and 22, 
at 8 pm each night in the Antonian Theatre 
at Carlow College. Tickets are $10.
Jazz at Emmanuel, a jazz for worship 
program, will be performed on Sunday at 5 
pm at the Emmanuel Church, 957 W. North 
Avenue in Northside. Admission is free. For 
more information, call 231-0454.
Compline Prayer at the End of the Day
is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 pm at 
the Heinz Chapel. For information, call
682-6886.
Sports
For more information on all sports events, 
call Bruce Gerson, the Sports Information 
Director, at x3087.
The mens and womens cross-country 
teams will compete in the NCAA Mideast 
Regional Championships at Allentown Col
lege on Saturday.
The football team plays its last game of 
the season at Case Western Reserve Uni
versity on Saturday at 1:30 pm.
The hockey club plays against PittJohnstown at Golden Mile Ice Skating Kink 
on Saturday at 5 pm.
The mens and womens swimming 
teams host Indiana University of PA on 
Saturday at 1 pm.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: 
The Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send cam
pus mail to Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo 
Info Desk. You can also drop submissions via 
AppleShare in the drop folders in the Tartan's 
server, Skibo zone. Please limit submissions to 
50 words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday 
before the next issue. Placement is not guaran
teed. Original entries cannot be returned.
She gave me a hancQob but I 
didnt kiss her  that would 
mean I liked her."
Lesson #1: Never surprise an 
architect with an exacto.
Whats the difference between a 
fat chick and a moped?
eating at tartan, 
talking in the lounge, 
just hanging out...
Lesson #2: Field trips are for I dont grow little green sprouts
looking  not copying. all over my body no matter what
you rub on me, Mom.
Babs, victim of the prodding
cockroach Where is the C-Book?
Senioritis, anyone?
...if I only had won against 
Phil!
What am I gonna do with you??!! 
Dont answer that.
:)
Theres got to be more to life 
than countingthe days till were 
outta here.
Congrats to all of the new Sig 
Tau girls! Were gonna have 
SO much fun!
 mel
You know youre a geek when 
you start spelling risk with a 
C.
 KB
Chris,
Stop smoking!!!
