PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Jakeisrain and C Street Brass release debut EP  B8Rowlings text stands strong despite revisions  A6
FORUMSCITECH
Pugwash: Cyber anonymity a mixed blessing  A4
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 10, 2014
Volume 108, Issue 17
CMU students place ?rst in Disney Imaginations contest
SNEHA KANNOTH
Junior Staffwriter 
NOL UM 
News Co-Editor
Four Carnegie Mellon 
students were crowned the 
champions of the Walt Disney 
Imagineerings Imaginations 
design competition last week.
After a week long, allexpense-paid trip to Disney 
Imagineering headquarters 
in Glendale, Ca., the group, 
whose members included 
?fth-year architecture major Matthew Ho, ?fth-year 
architecture and humancomputer interaction double 
major Christina Brant, senior 
computer science major John 
Brieger, and junior communication design major Angeline Chen, took home the ?rst 
place title in the competition.
The Disney Imaginations 
competition is an opportunity 
for students to develop a concept project similar to what 
Disney Imagineers create. 
Imagineers, according to 
Disneys de?nition, are the 
individuals who conceptualize and create the Walt Disney parks and resorts in a 
combination of imagination 
and engineering.
The ?rst-place team won 
a $3,000 monetary award, as 
well as $1,000 in grants.
The diverse group took 
home the championship 
by presenting a proposal in 
response to the following 
prompt: There are many 
wonderful urban environments around the world 
where millions of people live, 
work and play every day. Select a large and densely populated urban area and design 
an experience that temporarily or permanently transforms 
the city for the enjoyment of 
its citizens and visitors. The 
experience must take advantage of existing infrastructure, 
and may be above, below or 
anywhere in between existing 
development.
According to the contests 
press release, the contestants 
were judged on criteria including collaboration, mastery of 
individual skill, an engaging 
guest experience, an understanding of the local and tourist market in a chosen location, 
the ability to tell an engaging 
story, and knowledge and passion for the Disney brand and 
Walt Disney Imagineering.
Disney loves it when you 
tell a story, Chen said.
The winning project proposal, titled Antipode, connected two cities that were directly opposite each other on 
the globe in order to promote 
a cultural exchange through a 
two-week festival. 
The speci?c case the students used in their proposal 
was a cultural exchange between the citizens of Lima, 
Peru and Bangkok, Thailand, 
which are antipodal cities.
The proposed idea was 
inspired by the story of two 
friends, one in Lima and one 
in Bangkok, who communicated via trees in their native 
homelands, thereby transferring cultural objects and ideas.
Brieger said, Culture was 
a big focus this year. You could 
really see what the current interests of Disney Imagineers 
were in that two of the top 
three ?nalists were culturally 
based project ideas.
When asked what brought 
them together, Ho said, It was 
Orientation of fall 2012. We 
were all involved in Orientation in some way  either being a HOC, OC, or RA  and 
we gravitated toward each 
other.
Later that year, Ho proposed that they form a group 
to compete in the Disney 
Imaginations competition.
I was always a huge fan of 
Disney, and I knew the people 
who placed as a ?nalist last 
year, and I was like we should 
go for this, he said.
Brant added, We had 
school to do, but literally any 
time our Google calendars 
matched up was Disney time.
Its been an emotional 
roller coaster over the past few 
months, Ho said. 
We submitted our proposal in November. Then, a 
little before winter break, we 
were selected among six ?-
nalists out of 231 entries to 
go present our work at Disney Imagineering.
Being a ?nalist was 
enough of a victory. But we 
wanted to present something 
that we were proud of, Chen 
said.
Winning was de?nitely 
unexpected. Still feels unreal, Brieger said. Sometimes 
I have to remind myself that 
this really happened. Last 
week feels so long ago.
Christina and I just 
laughed when we found out 
we won, Chen added.
The group members did 
not put school on pause in order to work on their proposal, 
however. 
When asked how they balanced their academics and 
preparing for the Disney 
Imaginations competition, 
Chen replied, It wasnt much 
of a balance. There were lot 
of late nights and a lot of 
preparation.
 As far as group dynamic 
goes, we never really disagreed, Ho said. We were receptive and open to ideas, but 
we constantly assessed them.
Brant found their creative 
process closely related to the 
concept of iterative design. 
Iterative design is a way to 
perfect a product through repeated tests. 
She said, We were never 
fully sold on a particular idea, 
and we always wanted to improve or add more.
Brieger admitted, We were 
de?nitely on a time crunch. 
The ?rst two weeks of the semester, we were constantly 
practicing our presentation in 
lecture rooms with projectors 
and performing it in front of 
others to get input.
We would practice them 
while we walked to class in 
the morning, Ho said. We 
Winning 
was de?nitely 
unexpected. 
Still feels 
unreal.
John Brieger, senior computational 
design and interaction major
Courtesy of Gary Krueger 
The Carnegie Mellon teams winning project, Antipode, brought together the cultures of two disparate cities, Peru and Bangkok. Pictured, from left to right: Matthew Ho, Christina Brant, Angeline Chen, and John Brieger. 
Spring Carnival relocated to CFA lawn 
MICHELLE CHO 
Junior Staffwriter
Starting in 2015, Carnegie 
Mellons beloved tradition 
of Spring Carnival will be relocated from the parking lot 
of Morewood Gardens to the 
parking lot of the College of 
Fine Arts (CFA). A town hall 
meeting was held last Thursday in the University Centers 
Danforth Lounge to inform 
the student population about 
the changes.
In November, David Tepper 
announced a generous donation of $67 million to help ?-
nance the construction of the 
new Tepper School of Business, which will be built in 
the parking lot where Spring 
Carnival is currently held. Although not yet of?cially decided and announced to the public, the relocation of Carnival 
has been discussed since last 
June, according to Tim Leonard, coordinator of student activities, who led the town hall.
Although it presents a major change, some students recognize the bene?ts of moving 
Carnival.
Junior communication design major Sam Ahmed said, I 
think its better that Carnival 
will be in the middle of campus, rather than on a parking 
lot by the freshmen dorms. 
It makes more sense than for 
Carnival to be so far.
The Of?ce of Student Activities also considered Gesling Stadium, the East-West 
Walkway, and the fourth 
?oor of the East Campus Garage as possible locations for 
Spring Carnival. All of these 
locations presented their own 
challenges  because of Gesling Stadiums brand new turf, 
for example, the university 
would be forced to cover the 
whole stadium so that the turf 
wouldnt be ruined, a procedure that is both tedious and 
costly, according to Leonard.
As a result, Leonard said, CFA 
parking lot and lawn appeared 
to be the least complicated 
and most ef?cient choice.
As of now, booth will take 
place in the CFA parking lot. 
The Main Tent, where the comedian will perform, will be 
on CFA lawn, while the rides 
will be on the CFA lawn and 
the Mall.
Last but not least, the 
concert will take place on 
the Mall. Since Carnival will 
University increasestuition for next year
BRENT HEARD 
Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon announced that the average undergraduate tuition rates for 
the 201415 academic year 
will increase by 2.9 percent. 
This increase places tuition for incoming students 
and current ?rst-years at 
$48,030. 
For sophomore students, 
the tuition will be $47,560, 
and for juniors and seniors, 
the tuition will be $47,110. 
Tuition rates for graduate 
students are set at the program or college level. 
This 2.9 percent increase 
in tuition is similar to the 
percentage increases made in 
past years, with tuition rising 
by 3 percent last year, and 4 
percent the year prior to that.
The of?cial communication sent by email detailing 
the increase also detailed 
that the housing fee for a 
standard double room will 
be $7,280, and the standard 
?rst-year meal plan will cost 
$5,120. 
The email states that this 
new pricing results in a 3 percent increase in the total cost 
of attending the university.
Some required payments by 
students, such as the activities fee and technology fee, 
are also higher this year. 
The activities fee is rising to $242 in the upcoming 
year from the previous value 
of $194, the technology fee 
is increasing from $360 to 
$380, and the transportation fee is now $120 instead 
of $110. These various fees 
contribute in different ways 
to the student experience at 
Carnegie Mellon.
See DISNEY, A3
See CARNIVAL, A3See TUITION, A3The College of Fine Arts will be the future home of Booth during Spring 
Carnival. The parking lot is large enough to hold all current Booths.
Briana Wiliams/Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 10, 2014
NEWS IN BRIEF
FORGE hosts free dumpling night in UC
WEATHER
Underage Drinking
Jan. 31, 2014
University Police and 
CMU EMS responded to Donner House in response to an 
anonymous call regarding individuals who reportedly had 
too much to drink. University 
Police arrived on scene and 
ensured that all overly intoxicated individuals received 
medical attention. City medics 
were summoned for further 
assistance. University Police 
issued underage drinking 
citations.
Public Drunkenness
Feb. 2, 2014
A University Police of?cer 
responded to the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Aiken Street after the Pittsburgh 
Police reported that a Carnegie Mellon student had been 
struck by a vehicle. Further investigation revealed that the 
student was not struck, but 
rather was intoxicated and 
fell into the street. City medics transported the male, who 
was cited for public drunkenness, to the hospital.
Underage Drinking
Feb. 2, 2014
University Police assisted 
the Pittsburgh Police at a 
residence on the 5600 block 
of Wilkins Avenue. While on 
scene, police cited one Carnegie Mellon student for underage drinking. The student was 
transported to the hospital by 
city medics. University Police 
also assisted the Pittsburgh 
Police on the 1700 block of 
Wightman Avenue. Another 
Carnegie Mellon student was 
cited for underage drinking 
and was eventually taken to 
the hospital by city medics.
Trespassing/Criminal 
Activity
Feb. 2, 2014
Three students received 
Carnegie Mellon internal discipline citations for trespassing after University Police responded to the roof of Wean 
Hall for a suspicious activity 
call. The three students had 
gained access to the roof 
through the penthouse level 
of Wean Hall.
Wallet Theft
Feb. 6, 2014
University Police are investigating a theft that took place 
in the College of Fine Arts on 
Feb. 5, 2014, between 2:30
4:30 p.m. The victim stated 
that her wallet was removed 
from her coat.  Some of the 
contents of the wallet were 
later turned in to the Hub by 
an unknown male, who stated 
that he found the contents in 
a classroom. The wallet and 
cash money were not turned 
in by the unknown male.
Motor Vehicle Accident
Feb. 6, 2014
University Police responded to the East Campus Garage 
in response to a car accident. 
Upon arrival, of?cers determined that a moving vehicle 
struck a parked Carnegie Mellon Parking & Transportation 
Services vehicle. The driver 
was cited for careless driving after verifying the facts of 
the incident with several witnesses on scene. No one was 
injured during this accident. 
Both vehicles involved suffered front end damage.
 
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
FORGE, a student organization devoted to aiding refugees around the world, hosted a free dumpling night on Saturday. The event featured performances by Dancers Symposium and the Treblemakers, as well as henna tattoos and ?eece scarf-making from the local refugee community. 
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Matthew Scarlett (CFA 
08) won the School of Architecture 2014 Delbert C. 
Highlands Travel Fellowship, 
worth $12,000, last week. 
Scarletts fellowship application, titled Ful?lling 
the Risorgimento: Modernist Colonial Architecture in 
Asmara, explored the relationship between modernist colonial works in Eritrea, 
located in the Horn of Africa, 
and well-known masterpieces of Italian modernism 
in Rome, Milan, Como and 
other important Italian cities, according to a university 
press release. 
Through the fellowship, 
Scarlett will be traveling to 
Asmara and other cities in 
Eritrea.
After graduating from 
Carnegie Mellon, Scarlett attended Harvards Graduate 
School of Design, where he 
received a masters degree in 
architecture in May 2013.
He has worked in architecture at various locations, including Los Angeles, Copenhagen, Dublin, 
and New York. He recently 
worked as a freelance designer for nARCHITECTS in 
Brooklyn, where he worked 
to introduce new models 
for micro-unit apartments 
to be installed in Manhattan under the Bloomberg 
administration. 
Scarlett has been a project 
manager for Audi terminals 
in the eastern United States; 
hes currently managing 
more than 30 projects. Hes 
also on a design team that 
develops plans for numerous 
international competitions. 
The Highlands Travel Fellowship is in honor of Delbert 
Highlands, a professor of architectural design, design 
theory, and architectural history at Carnegie Mellon from 
the 1960s to early 2000s. All 
alumni of the School of Architecture are able to apply 
for the fellowship.
CMU architecture alumnus Scarlett Awarded Highlands Travel Fellowship
Former Carnegie Mellon professor to present Dark Re?ections of Power
African American history 
and culture is often seen as 
being entrenched in themes 
of oppression and suppression. Associate professor of 
English and black studies at 
the University of California 
Santa Barbara Stephanie 
L. Batiste, however, argues 
that African-American artists, musicians, and writers 
in the time period accepted 
the segregated and imperialist system in the United 
States to make themselves 
feel more included in the 
culture. 
Batistes lecture Dark 
Re?ections of Power: Black 
Performance Culture and 
the End of Subversion, 
sponsored by Carnegie Mellons Center for Africanamerican Urban Studies and 
the Economy (CAUSE), 
will take place at Carnegie 
Mellons Steinberg Auditorium on Friday, Feb. 21 from 
4:306:30 p.m. 
In a statement from a 
university press release, Joe 
Trotter, Giant Eagle professor of history and social justice and director of CAUSE, 
said in the press release, 
CAUSE and the Department 
of History are especially 
pleased with Stephanies 
visit and lecture because her 
talk reinforces the monthlong celebration of Black 
History themes at CMU and 
the larger Pittsburgh metropolitan region.
Batiste wants the current 
perception of African-American identity and culture to 
be reexamined, as she does 
not believe the population 
was oppressed at the time. 
According to a press release, 
She contends that examining complicity with power 
broadens the concept of 
black humanity and complicates the understanding of 
how the oppressed use and 
manipulate the very tools 
that have de?ned their social 
exclusion.
CAUSE, in its 19th year 
at the university, holds 
events throughout the year. 
CAUSE builds upon this 
legacy through its AfricanAmerican speakers series, 
postdoctoral fellowship 
program and collaborative 
projects with other institutions like the Heinz History 
Center, a Smithsonian Institution af?liate, Trotter said 
in the press release.
Faculty Course Evaluation Presentation
FRIDAY
High / Low
29 / 16
SATURDAY
High / Low
29 / 23
SUNDAY
High / Low
31 / 23 
TUESDAY
High / Low
20 / 5
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
31 / 19
THURSDAY
High / Low
33 / 25
Academic Affairs Committee chair and sophomore 
electrical and computer engineering major Julia Eddy 
gave a presentation on the 
upcoming town hall meeting, 
hosted by Senate, meant to 
reform faculty course evaluations. 
The town hall will ask 
students about the effectiveness and purpose of Faculty 
Course Evaluations with the 
goal of making them a more 
effective tool for helping students gauge the dif?culty of a 
class and ?nalize their course 
schedules.
Compiled by
ALVIN MATHEW
Courtesy of Jarilyn James  
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
Student Body President 
and senior biology major Lindsay MacGillivray, along with 
Student Body Vice President 
of Organizations and senior 
psychology and international 
relations and politics double 
major Corinne Rockoff gave a 
presentation to Senate about 
changes to student governmental policies. 
The updated policy includes 
updates to the rules surrounding painting the Fence designed to prevent the spread of 
paint on the steps of and inside 
Doherty Hall, as well as changing the time frame and number 
of members for the University 
Center Allocations Board. 
Student Government Executive Board Special Allocation: CMU Bhangra
Senate voted to allocate 
$1,606.09 to CMU Bhangra. 
Bhangra requested the funds 
for travel and lodging costs 
for Bhangra National Championships, which are in Jersey 
City, New Jersey. This time is 
the ?rst time that the CMU 
Bhangra team has placed in 
enough smaller competitions 
to make it to nationals. 
Special Allocation: Lunar Gala
Senate voted to allocate 
$1,675 to Lunar Gala, after 
the Finance Committee reduced their recommendation 
from the amount that Lunar 
Gala originally requested.
The funding will go toward 
Lunar Galas after party, which 
will be held at Villa South 
Side, and the production of 
the Lunar Gala Magazine. Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
Joyful Noise spreads joy in Skibo Caf
Courtesy of Joyful Noise
A cappella group Joyful Noise performed in Skibo Caf Friday night at 7 p.m. as part of the continuing Skibo A Capella Series.  

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Tuition increases an average of 2.9%
The of?cial email sent by 
Vice President for Campus 
Affairs Michael Murphy acknowledged the ?nancial 
burden that increased tuition 
places on families and students, but stated that this increase is relatively modest 
and is consistent with our 
goal of containing costs and 
managing our resources appropriately. 
Murphy justi?ed the increase by saying, we will 
continue to invest in key 
priorities, including ?nancial 
aid support for eligible students, and to work with you 
to maintain and enhance our 
uniquely vibrant and engaged 
undergraduate experience, 
just as you deserve.
Students are frustrated 
with the continually rising tuition, and many feel kept out 
of the loop. 
Although a campus-wide 
email was sent out about the 
raise in tuition, many students 
still feel like its unclear where 
their money is going. 
I would like [the administration] to keep me more 
informed, said sophomore 
chemical engineering and biomedical engineering double 
major Liz Starck. 
Starck said that she wishes 
the university would be more 
transparent.  Did they say 
anywhere what the money is 
going toward? Didnt we get 
some huge donations recently? What is the point of this 
tuition raise? 
Starck was referring to the 
$67 million donation by David 
Tepper, announced in November on the day of President 
Subra Sureshs inauguration. 
Sophomore biology and 
psychology double major Su 
Baykal said that, for her, nothing could excuse this years 
increase in tuition. [The increase] is de?nitely not justi?ed. Unless tuition is divided 
by ?ve, it will not be justi?ed 
for me  even if they dont 
raise it, Baykal said via email.  
The announcement also 
stated that undergraduate 
student fees include $120 for 
the Port Authority, $380 for 
technology, a $246 activity 
fee, and a $10 media fee. 
practiced them on a van to 
L.A., Brant added.
This year marks the second year in a row that a 
group from Carnegie Mellon 
has placed in the top three 
of the Disney Imaginations 
competition.
A lot of people have been 
coming to us because they 
are interested in next years 
competition. Its great, but if 
you go for it, make sure you 
really put time and energy 
into it, Ho said.
When asked if the group 
has any plans involving 
Disney in the future, Chen 
smiled and said, The future 
is the future. Right now, we 
are just very thankful for this 
experience.
The Imaginations competition is open to students 
from colleges and universities in the United States who 
are juniors, seniors,  full-time 
graduate students, or who 
have graduated less than a 
year ago, who are enrolled 
in a variety of programs including architecture, arts, 
animation, computer science, construction/project 
management, and graphic/
communications design.
CMU team victors of Disney competition
Carnival moved across campus
predominantly surround the 
CFA building, Student Activities has recognized the 
potential of noise complaints 
from CFA professors and 
students.
Freshmen ?ne arts major Bridget Quirk said, I 
think CFA students are already so used to things going on around the building, 
so I dont think the students 
will be really affected by the 
noise.
On average, about 25 student organizations participate in Booth for Carnival, 
Leonard said. 
The location will not be 
completely ?nalized until the 
next academic year, when 
Student Activities will get the 
?nal count of participating 
groups.
As part of Carnegie Mellons Kappa Alpha Theta 
sorority, ?rst-year decision 
science major Colleen Hamilton said, I think it will be 
harder for those in the Greek 
Quad to bring stuff over for 
booth to CFA. It also looks 
like there is less space for everything to ?t, but other than 
that, I dont have any major 
concerns. Hamilton, who 
lives in Pittsburgh, has frequently attended Spring Carnival in the past, and predicts 
that the event will remain 
enjoyable and popular in its 
new location.
Leonard and Student Activities have consulted and 
will continue to consult with 
Alumni Relations, AB Tech, 
and many other committees 
before the next academic 
year. 
The next steps to ?nalize 
the relocation include continued collaboration with 
faculty and ?guring out the 
speci?c placement of booths 
and rides, according to 
Leonard.
From DISNEY, A1
From CARNIVAL, A1
From TUITION, A1
Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 10, 2014
Behrmann studies how brain works with one hemisphere
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Over the past several 
years, popular interest in 
neuroscience has dramatically increased worldwide. 
This public interest has led to 
more funding, research, and 
programs that promote the 
?eld of neuroscience, such as 
the Brain Research through 
Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative  a research initiative to 
map every neuron in the human brain announced by President Barack Obama last April. 
Carnegie Mellon researchers 
are also taking part in this 
new research with innovative experimental techniques 
that could help explain how 
the brain functions the way 
it does. Marlene Behrmann, 
a professor of psychology at 
Carnegie Mellon, is examining 
brain plasticity in order to gain 
insight into its inner workings. 
Behrmann explained that 
an understanding of brain 
plasticity  the ability of the 
brain to change and adapt 
its structure and function  
could have a substantial in?uence on the way the brain is 
viewed. Contrary to received 
wisdom, the brain is really a 
pretty ?exible machine, Behrmann said. There may be 
ways to optimize brain function, both in normal individuals and individuals with some 
kind of abnormality. 
Behrmanns research focuses on how functions of the 
brain, such as plasticity, occur. She explains that while 
scientists understand a lot 
about how the brain physically 
works, and understand what 
the ?nal behavioral products 
of these actions are, they do 
not know much about how 
the ?nal products are generated. We know a lot about the 
brain, and we also know a lot 
about behavior, Behrmann 
said. We know both sides of 
the equation. We just dont yet 
know what the transformation 
is.
Behrmann has received 
funding from the National 
Institute of Health for a highrisk project that examines the 
brain organization of children 
who have had an entire hemisphere of their brain removed. 
Behrmann explains that these 
children have such a high 
number of seizures per day 
that it is optimal to remove the 
damaged tissue, which can entail removing an entire hemisphere of the brain. 
Plasticity becomes involved 
during these childrens recoveries. Within a space of a 
couple of years these kids have 
regained most cognitive functions, Behrmann said. How 
does this plasticity occur? 
They have got everything that 
other people have got in two 
hemispheres in a single hemisphere. Behrmann explained 
that the innovative nature of 
this research gives it the potential to help researchers understand the complex workings of the brain. There has 
been very little work that has 
been done to date, Behrmann 
said. If we can understand 
this extreme form of plasticity, 
it may give us some insights 
into how the system works.
Behrmann also explained 
the major impact that technology has had on the research. 
First, technology has allowed 
researchers to acquire large 
data sets. In humans we 
dont have direct access to the 
brain, Behrmann said. The 
best we can do is record signals 
on the surface of the scalp, 
termed electroencephalography, or use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology. Through this technology 
we can acquire data reliably 
and precisely, with ?nely calibrated experiments. 
Behrmann also noted the 
use of technology in data science. 
The advances that are being made in statistics and machine learning can be used on 
these data sets, Behrmann 
said. The ability to handle 
and bring analytics to big data 
is pretty ubiquitous at Carnegie Mellon. She explained 
that several students from 
Carnegie Mellons masters of 
statistical practice program 
will be working with the data 
collected to bring advanced 
statistics to the research. We 
now have the technology and 
we have the analytics to be 
able to begin to scratch the 
surface of this, Behrmann 
said. 
Finally, Behrmann noted 
the ideal location of her research. In order to do a project like this, you need the 
technology and you need the 
analytics, but you also need 
the patient population, Behrmann said. Because Pittsburgh has fantastic medical 
facilities and hospitals, it is a 
large catchment area.
PUGWASH COLUMNAnonymity on the Internet is both a blessing and a curse
KATHRYN MCKEOUGH
Special to The Tartan
On Feb. 4, Facebook celebrated its 10th birthday. The 
beloved social networking site 
has allowed over one billion 
people to be a part of a giant 
web of communication. In a 
recent interview with Bloomberg Businessweek, Mark Zuckerberg suggested allowing users to log in anonymously. It 
is somewhat of a burden if you 
are always under pressure of a 
real identity, Zuckerberg said 
during the interview. 
Anonymity can release the 
burden of identity by not tying 
people to the things they do or 
say online. In one sense, not 
revealing ones identity allows 
more freedom of speech. Anonymity is helpful in avoiding 
consequences that may come 
along with an individuals actions, such as stalking or bullying. 
Yelp, the popular business 
review site, is a good example of an online space where 
anonymity allows for more 
honesty when critiquing businesses. Most people will not go 
up to their local barber and tell 
him that the haircuts he gives 
are terrible, but they might 
say something to the same 
effect if they are able to post 
their thoughts online under a 
pseudonym. Anonymity can 
also remove unwanted connotations that come along with 
identity. For example, female 
authors, such as the Bront sisters of the 19th century, wrote 
under aliases so that people 
would take them more seriously. Anonymity is powerful 
in the sense that it decreases 
the consequences associated 
with speaking out and allows 
people more freedom to say 
what is on their minds.
However, detaching ones 
actions from identity can be 
dangerous. Anonymous communication changes normal 
social interaction. Because 
restraints on speech are loosened, people are more willing 
to speak out. They do not have 
to think about how they will 
present themselves because 
their actions are not associated with their identity. Usually, when we communicate, 
we subconsciously monitor 
and adapt to behaviors of others around us. Anonymity in 
online interactions eliminates 
this tendency, making bad behavior more likely.
Anonymous is an international activist group in 
which unnamed members 
unite under a common cause, 
usually against the government, religious groups, and 
corporations. Under the veil 
of anonymity they can plot 
international protests and 
movements without consequence. Anonymity is a key 
characteristic for the group. 
The actions of the group cannot be tied to any individual. 
There is no way to persecute 
everyone, and there is no way 
to ?nd an origin to the groups 
actions. Also, because there is 
no individuality, the group can 
be omnipresent by not needing to rally around a leader. 
Although Anonymous believes 
their causes are morally justi?ed, their actions are often illegal. For example, in protest 
of PlayStation 3 hackers being sued, Anonymous hacked 
Sonys servers in 2011. Anonymity has given this activist 
group a lot of power; however, 
it is not clear whether they are 
using it for good.
What will happen if users can create anonymous 
Facebook accounts? These 
accounts could create an environment where people are 
free to share even the most 
extreme ideas. Or the environment could be conducive to 
the negative and rash behavior 
that can occur when people 
detach their actions from their 
identity.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that meets on a weekly 
basis to discuss the implications 
of science, technology, and medicine in society. This is a summary of last weeks discussion 
on anonymity online, spurred 
by a comment in Mark Zuckerbergs interview.
SCITECH BRIEFS
Scientists ?nd early European footprints on Norfolk coast
A team of scientists led by 
Queen Mary University of London, the British Museum, and 
the Natural History Museum 
have recently discovered footprints on the coast of England 
in northeast Norfolk that are 
over 800,000 years old. These 
ancient footprint ?ndings are 
extremely rare; the only two 
footprints that have ever been 
found earlier are both in Africa 
and are 1.5 million and 3.5 
million years old. If geologists 
had arrived at the scene of the 
footprints just two weeks later, 
the footprints would have already been eroded away by 
the tide. This fact illustrates 
the extremely unlikely chance 
of the discovery and the dif?culty with which footprints 
are found. These footprints 
provide interesting insight 
into the movement patterns 
of ancient humans and provides evidence that they may 
have been migrating toward 
Great Britain when it was still 
connected to the main continent. The researchers used 
photogrammetry, a technique 
which pieces together photographs to create a 3-D image, to study the footprints. 
 
Source: Science Daily
Sector of human brain contributes to advanced thought
Researchers at the University of Oxford have determined that the ventrolateral 
frontal cortex of human brains 
contains a region that gives 
humans the unique ability to 
process loads of information, 
make informed decisions, 
and create speech. During 
an experiment, researchers 
used MRI imaging and compared the brain activity of 25 
adults to the brain activity of 
25 macaque monkeys. The 
monkeys and humans had 11 
regions that acted similarly 
out of 12 tested regions in the 
ventrolateral frontal cortex. 
However, the humans used a 
portion of their brain in the 
frontal cortex that the monkeys didnt have. Scientists are 
hypothesizing that this portion of the brain is correlated 
with advanced thinking like 
multi-tasking and speech. This 
region of the frontal cortex 
could be what gives humans 
unique intelligence, given 
that a close relative of humans 
does not have this same region in their ventrolateral 
frontal cortex. The scientists 
have published their ?ndings 
in the science journal Neuron. 
 
Source: Science Daily
Gene identi?ed in women that causes their slower growth
Research conducted on the 
X chromosome is instrumental 
to determining the factors that 
cause men and women to be 
different. The only genetic difference between a man and a 
woman is that the woman has 
two X chromosomes, while 
the man has one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. 
To this end, researchers from 
the University of Helsinki, 
Finland, have found a gene 
that can help to explain the 
difference in height associated with men and women. 
The gene, ITM2A, causes the 
body to grow at a slower rate. 
The gene is found on the X 
chromosome and is active on 
both the X chromosomes in 
women. However, they are 
only found active once in men 
because they only have one 
X chromosome. Thus, with 
more ITM2A, women grow at 
a slower rate. While this gene 
has only been shown to contribute to about 1 to 2 percent 
change, it still could provide 
further insight and reasoning.  
Source: Science Daily
Compiled By
ROHAN VARMA
Courtesy of Marlene Behrmann
Professor of psychology Marlene Behrmann studies brain plasticity, the ability of the brain to change and adapt its structure and function.
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
HOW THINGS WORK
Making alternatives to milk to sidestep lactose intolerance
MICHAEL SETZER 
Contributing Editor
Ever since we were in kindergarten, we were told to 
drink milk to soak up calcium 
and keep our bones strong. 
However, a signi?cant portion 
of the population cant digest 
lactose. We all know where 
regular milk comes from 
(hopefully), but what about 
the milk substitutes made for 
our lactose-sensitive or vegan 
brethren? The processes behind soy, almond, and rice milk 
are intriguing, so lets get to it.
As its name implies, rice 
milk is made by processing 
rice, usually brown rice. There 
are multiple methods that can 
even be done at home to process the rice. First, the rice is 
cooked normally on a stove 
top or rice cooker. Then, it is 
blended with water until it 
becomes lique?ed. During the 
cooking process, the rice undergoes a natural enzymatic 
process. The carbohydrates in 
the rice are cleaved and become sugars, giving the rice 
milk a natural sweetness. After resting, one can pour the 
mixture over cheesecloth, 
a gauze-like cloth used for 
cheese-making and cooking. 
Rice milk has less fat than 
regular milk, but more carbohydrates. Furthermore, there 
are few natural nutrients in 
the milk, although most commercially-made rice milk is 
forti?ed with added calcium 
and vitamins.
Almond milk is made 
through a similar process. Athome methods include soaking the almonds for an extended period of time, blending 
with water, and then straining through a cheesecloth. 
Almond milk doesnt have 
any cholesterol or lactose and 
has a lower fat content than 
cows milk. It provides much 
less protein than milk as well, 
although it still provides nutrients including calcium.
Soy milk is perhaps the 
most common milk substitute. 
Made from soybeans, soy milk 
has a long history with roots 
in Asia. Soybeans are soaked 
overnight and then go through 
a process called wet grinding 
to make a wet, pasty substance 
with the rehydrated beans. 
Boiling the pure enhances 
its ?avor and sterilizes, while 
also improving the nutritional 
value. The liquid milk is then 
separated from the solids by 
?ltering it through a cheesecloth. Finally, the collected soy 
milk must be boiled again.
So why are people lactose 
intolerant in the ?rst place? It 
usually comes down to genetics and your ancestors evolutionary past. 
Lactose is a disaccharide 
sugar made of galactose and 
glucose, and is found in milk. 
Lactose is digested by an enzyme known as lactase, which 
is encoded by the gene LCT 
in humans. Mutations in LCT 
itself are very rare and cause 
lactose intolerance beginning 
in infancy. Much more common adult-onset lactose intolerance is instead caused by a 
lack of expression of  LCT postinfancy, which is dependent 
on other regions of DNA called 
regulatory elements. Scientists have found a nearby gene 
called MCM6 that controls the 
expression of LCT and, therefore, controls the production 
of lactase.
Some individuals have a 
variation of MCM6 that allows them to produce lactase 
all their lives, while others 
have variations that will stop 
working in childhood. Ancestry plays a great role in determining whether someone will 
be lactose-intolerant or not. 
Populations that historically 
raised cows and lived off milk 
for nutrition, such as northern Europeans, have about 
95 percent lactose tolerance, 
according to the National Institutes of Health. Many East 
Asian populations, on the other hand, have 90 percent or 
greater lactose intolerance because there was no need for an 
active MCM6. In fact, around 
65 percent of the population 
loses the ability to digest lactose post-infancy.
When we are unable to 
digest lactose, it builds up in 
the digestive system and acts 
as a food source for bacteria 
in the gut. The growth of bacteria is what causes the various gastrointestinal maladies 
lactose-intolerant individuals 
experience after consuming 
dairy products.
Whether your milk aversion is due to a non-functioning MCM6, a vegan lifestyle, or 
taste preferences, milk substitutes can be found in most grocery stores or made at home. 
Guest speaker discusses theory of neural dimensionality 
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
The human brain contains 
approximately 100 billion 
neurons. With this number in 
mind  pun intended  you 
can imagine how dif?cult it is 
to collect and understand datasets in the world of neuroscience. How, then, can neuroscientists analyze these huge 
datasets in an ef?cient yet biologically meaningful manner?
Last Thursday, Carnegie 
Mellons Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering hosted a seminar lecture 
in which this exact question 
was explored. Surya Ganguli, 
an assistant professor of applied physics and, by courtesy, 
of neurobiology and electrical engineering at Stanford 
University, spoke in the Scaife 
Hall Auditorium to discuss 
how neuroscientists can use 
high-dimensional statistics 
and computation to obtain 
accurate models of neural systems from large datasets.
The topic of Gangulis talk 
is a very unique niche ?eld 
that straddles the interface 
between neuroscience and 
electrical and computer engineering. I was told that there 
would be both neuroscientists 
and electrical engineers here. 
Its always a bit tough to pitch 
a talk to an interdisciplinary 
crowd, so if anything doesnt 
make sense, Im sure Ill please 
half of you, half the time  
so I guess Ill always piss off 
somebody all the time, Ganguli joked as he began his talk. 
For those in the crowd who fell 
under neither of the two categories, the talk was an ironic 
struggle to use every relevant 
brain neuron to understand 
the vast amount of neurons in 
our brains. 
Most people  especially 
people at Carnegie Mellon  
are familiar with Moores Law, 
the doubling of the number 
of transistors on integrated 
circuits every two years. Ganguli stated that neuroscience 
has been undergoing a revolution and has its own version of 
Moores Law. By now, approximately 100 to 1,000 neurons 
can be recorded. However, the 
circuits in the brain which control our behavior consist of a 
million to a billion neurons, so 
the sample that can currently 
be recorded is still only a small 
fraction of the total. Ganguli 
refers to this situation as an 
anti-Goldilocks moment because we cannot seem to obtain a neural sampling that is 
just right.
On the one hand, we do 
have a lot of neurons, so the 
data analysis is not easy, Ganguli said. On the other hand, 
we may not have enough neurons to really understand circuit computation in any meaningful sense.
He presented the audience 
with a graph which plotted the 
?ring rates of individual neurons against time of a monkey 
reaching for an object. The 
graph appeared very heterogeneous, and no qualitative 
information could be immediately gathered from it. However, through a method known 
as dimensionality reduction, 
the dataset could be more easily interpreted. 
A widespread practice is 
to take a pattern of activity 
across neurons at any instance 
in time and express them as 
time-dependent linear combinations of a ?xed set of basis 
patterns of activity, Ganguli 
explained. In other words, by 
decomposing high-dimensional ?ring space into a smaller 
number of dimensions of ?ring rate space and projecting 
neural activity onto these dimensions, neural datasets can 
be more readily analyzed. 
These simpli?ed representations are known as dynamical portraits. Whats interesting about these dynamical 
portraits is that they reveal a 
lot about the way that circuit 
computation works, Ganguli 
said. He then went on to show 
the audience the dynamical 
portraits obtained by observing a monkeys prefrontal cortex while it was doing a tactile 
discrimination task, as well 
as the dynamical portrait of 
the entire brain of a zebra?sh. 
He explained the qualitative 
information that could be obtained by looking at each one. 
While the fact that dimensionality reduction and dynamical portraits can simplify 
neuronal datasets is a beautiful thing, it leads to many 
questions. In the abstract for 
Gangulis talk, he posits several key questions: What is the 
origin of this simplicity and its 
implications for the complexity of brain dynamics? Would 
neuronal datasets become 
more complex if we recorded more neurons? How and 
when can we trust dynamical 
portraits obtained from only 
hundreds of neurons in circuits containing millions of 
neurons? 
The task from which data 
for Gangulis studies was recorded was the monkey-reaching task. A target was shown 
to a monkey and then taken 
away, and the monkey had to 
reach for it. The neurons in the 
monkeys dorsal premotor cortex were recorded as the monkey reached in eight different 
directions. In fact, some of this 
data was taken by Byron Yu, 
an assistant professor in electrical and computer engineering and biomedical engineering at Carnegie Mellon. Hes a 
man of many talents, Ganguli 
said about Yu. He even knows 
how to deal with monkeys! 
The key piece in solving 
the puzzle of how well we can 
trust dynamical portraits is 
by determining why dimensionality in neural recordings 
can be so low. In order to do 
that, wed like to derive upper 
bounds on how high a dimensionality could possibly be in 
any dataset, Ganguli said. An 
idea that is currently out there 
is that dimensionality might 
be low because of the simplicity of the task. But nobody has 
really quantitatively proved 
it and come up with a de?nition of, say, task complexity 
that is somehow related to the 
dimensionality of neural dynamics, Ganguli said. This 
?nal upper bound, which is 
a quantitative measure of 
task complexity, is what Ganguli and his colleagues have 
derived. 
According to the abstract 
for the paper in which Ganguli and his colleagues discuss 
their theory of neural dimensionality, the dimensionality of motor cortical data is 
close to [the theoretical upper 
bound], indicating neural activity is as complex as possible, 
given task constraints. 
The underlying consequence of their theory is that 
it provides a framework for 
whether neural dimensionality is limited by task complexity 
or by intrinsic brain dynamics. 
As the Moores Law of neuroscience continues to increase 
the amount of neurons that 
can be recorded, this breakthrough will help neuroscientists better design experiments 
and interpret large datasets in 
the future. 
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
Courtesy of Surya Ganguli
Assistant professor of applied physics Surya Ganguli spoke in Scaife Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 10, 2014
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Staff
* Denotes executive committee member
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
SENIOR STAFFWRITERS 
Greg Hanneman, Carl Glazer
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Gordon 
Estes, Blaine Greenberg, Katherine Huang, 
Mackenzie Nicholson, Stephenie Stern
LAYOUT
Adrian Amegashie, Manali Banjeree, Yong Gun 
Choe, Sara-Remi Fields, Mina Kim, Linging 
Sun, Tanguri Tzuo
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni, Kyle Henson
 KYLE HENSON
The Congressional Budget Of?ce 
(CBO) just released a fatal report 
about the effects of the Affordable 
Care Act (ACA) on the economy. According to this report, the comprehensive healthcare reform bill will 
result in a decline of working hours 
equating to the loss of 2.3 million 
jobs by 2021. Additionally, the CBO 
reports that by 2024, this country 
will still have 31 million nonelderly 
uninsured.
This bill represents nearly everything that can go wrong in our republic, and its passage, content, and 
implementation are not only making 
the middle class incredibly worse 
off, but are also threatening the very 
fabric of the government that by and 
large has worked for us throughout 
American history.
Lets start at the stage of passage. 
This bill was jammed through Congress on a completely party-line vote 
in just about a week. Several members of Congress hadnt even read 
the bill, and a few were bought out 
by the administration, in particular 
Louisiana and Nebraska senators, 
who saw their states receive extra 
federal money or other bene?ts in 
exchange for their votes for the bill.
Minority leader of the United 
States House of Representatives 
Nancy Pelosi famously said, We 
have to pass the bill to ?nd out 
whats in it. Aside from all of this 
shadiness, former senator Scott 
Brown (RMass.) won a Senate 
election in deep blue Massachusetts 
campaigning as Scott Brown 41, to 
represent that hed be the 41st vote 
to sustain a ?libuster against the bill. 
However, the bill was passed  using a technique called budget reconciliation thats not meant for this 
type of bill  before Scott Brown 
could take of?ce.
The passage of this bill is a perfect representation of tyranny in the 
majority that our founders feared. In 
the Federalist papers, James Madison spoke of our party system as a 
way to guard against the superior 
force of an interested and overbearing majority.
This isnt democracy. This isnt 
the will of the people. According to 
RealClearPolitics.com, the ACAs 
disapproval rating has always been 
higher than its approval rating.
Now lets look at its implementation. Aside from a completely mismanaged rollout that required a Bain 
Capital executive to ?x, the ACA was 
sold to the American people on false 
promises. At several points throughout his candidacy and this debate, 
President Barack Obama promised 
that the ACA would lower the average familys premium by $2,500 a 
year, lower the countrys overall expenditure on healthcare, not raise 
taxes on the middle class, allow 
patients to keep their health plans 
if they like them, allow patients to 
keep their doctors if they like them, 
and not add a penny to the de?cit.
The ACA breaks all of these 
promises. According to the recent 
CBO report, the ACA will raise federal revenues by $1.058 trillion over 
the next 10 years. Seventy percent of 
this revenue will come from couples 
earning less than $250,000 a year 
and individuals earning less than 
$200,000 a year. Since Obama took 
of?ce, the average familys premium 
rose by nearly $3,000 per year  a 
far cry from a $2,500 reduction.
Additionally, government actuaries in Obamas own administration have found the act will increase healthcare spending in the 
country by $621 billion over the 
next 10 years, according to cms.gov. 
Again, these facts are a far cry from 
Obamas claims that the ACA will 
bend the cost curve down and lower 
our countrys overall spending on 
healthcare.
On to Obamas most famous 
promise, that those who liked their 
health insurance could keep it. Its 
been well chronicled that, because 
of the ACAs minimum standards for 
coverage, people whose plans didnt 
cover all 10 ludicrous areas of coverage saw their plans cancelled.
Were down to the ?nal two 
points. Because the cost of covering 
all 10 areas of minimum coverage 
are so high, insurers have narrowed 
the network of healthcare providers that patients can see in order 
to reduce costs, which has caused 
tons of people to lose access to the 
doctors they liked and had relationships with. Even people with cancer 
or other serious chronic medical 
issues are losing access to specialists who were familiar with their 
circumstances.
Finally, as far as adding to the 
de?cit, the CBOs recent report indicates that the ACA will spur anemic 
economic growth, as we will have 
fewer people working than we do 
now. Because of this growth, de?cits 
are projected to rise at a rate faster 
than they have in recent years, and 
will greatly exceed the de?cits 
we have now or have had during 
Obamas term by the end of the 
CBOs projection period of 10 years.
As much as I love being right, I 
really wish I wasnt. Sure, you can 
tout bene?ts of the act like free birth 
control, but we all know that it isnt 
actually free. Were just paying for 
it through the cost of higher premiums. This bill takes away all consumer choice, and any economist 
will tell you that the way to make 
people better off is to increase the 
options they have.
If these effects werent enough, 
the way that the ACA has been handled by the Obama administration 
has broken our system of government. Obama has amended the law 
by executive order so much that another president opposed to the law 
could just take of?ce and on day one 
amend the bill into extinction.
Additionally, what nobody is 
talking about are the effects that 
this bill has had on our democratic 
process. Republicans looking at an 
immigration reform compromise 
entailing a path to amnesty for immigrants that are here, in addition 
to increased border security, are 
skeptical of their plan actually coming to fruition. 
They believe that if they pass a 
bill, a path to amnesty will be created  but Obama could just write 
out the increased border security via 
executive order.
This atmosphere is breaking our 
already dysfunctional government 
and sowing the seeds of mistrust 
amongst our people. Historians will 
not look back on Obama as a president that united a people and made 
our government work. His will be 
remembered as the presidency that 
started the slow unraveling of our 
government through deceit and 
a willful nonchalance toward the 
Constitution. 
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Obamacare hails disaster for our national economy
Last week, sophomore directing 
major John Moriarity spoke to Student Senate on behalf of the Anything But Coke protest group.
Anything But Coke encourages 
participants to boycott Coca-Cola 
products in opposition to the CocaCola companys sponsorship of the 
2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia. 
With Russias opposition to gay 
rights and freedoms, this group 
views Coke-Colas sponsorship of the 
events as taking a stance against gay 
rights.
Moriarity encouraged Student 
Senate to vote to formally recommend to the university that campus 
stores cease the sale of Coca-Cola 
products for the duration of the 2014 
Winter Olympics. 
Senate approved the motion and will be following the 
recommendation.
This recommendation is an ineffective form of protest and violates 
the consumer rights of Carnegie Mellon students. If students wish to boycott the products of the Coca-Cola 
company, they can do so voluntarily. 
However, these actions make 
those who are not in full support of 
the Anything But Coke protest participate without choice. If a campus 
group opposed the use of contraception and tried to ban Entropy+ from 
selling condoms, that would be unacceptable. 
Unless the store owner refuses 
to carry an item in his or her shop, 
another group should not have the 
power to ban others from purchasing it.
Additionally, the selection of Coca-Cola as the sole product to protest 
makes little sense. Visa sponsors the 
2014 Winter Olympics, yet protesters are not trying to prevent campus 
stores from accepting Visa cards.
The Olympics are often viewed 
as an international competition 
that raises national spirits and can 
bring representatives of the world 
together. The fact that they are 
hosted in a nation that does not support gay rights is troubling, and the 
Russian government should face immense international pressure to alter 
this stance.
However, these games are not the 
?rst that have been hosted in a country that did not respect the rights of 
all people, and Coca-Cola is just one 
of many sponsors for the athletic 
competitions. 
This sponsorship does not necessarily indicate a support of Russian 
political policies, and banning individuals from the ability to make their 
own purchasing choices is an unacceptable option to protest gay persecution in Russia.
CMU Senate Coke ban request unreasonable
Last June, Carnegie Mellons 
chapter of Beta Theta Pi came under 
?re for several allegations of sexual 
misconduct on campus. The fraternity was suspended in the midst of 
these allegations of ?lming and distributing sexually explicit videos. 
The suspension was followed by 
the American Civil Liberties Union 
(ACLU)s formal complaint against 
the university for violating the federal Clery Act of 1990, according to 
The Huf?ngton Post. Under Title IX, 
with its intent of achieving gender 
equity, colleges receiving federal 
funding are required to respond to 
matters of sexual misconduct and to 
have preventative measures in place 
to prevent such matters.
Our university is not an anomaly. 
According to Tyler Kingkade, who 
has spent more than a year reporting for The Huf?ngton Post on sexual 
assault cases on college campuses, 
the U.S. Department of Education 
received 30 complaints pertaining to 
the mishandling of sexual violence 
cases in the university setting in the 
2013 ?scal year. This is a marked increase from 2012, when the department received only 17 complaints.
On one hand, an increase in 
sexual assault reports is upsetting 
because it proves the prevalence 
of the crime on college campuses 
nationally. 
However, Kingkade points out in 
an email that just because a number 
is high doesnt mean there are more 
sexual assaults at a school. Its likely 
the opposite; that a high number 
means more women feel comfortable reporting. 
The number of sexual assault reports in the college setting will only 
continue to increase as people feel 
more comfortable making them, 
which should be seen as a good 
thing. Through his experience, Kingkade compiled an infographic that 
pinpoints those schools accused of 
mishandling sexual assault cases 
 information he gathered by remaining connected with victims and 
constantly bugging the Education 
Department to stay on top of it. 
However, there exists no of?cial 
report of exactly which schools were 
accused; the only people who know 
for certain are a handful of attorneys and their staff in the Department of Education, according to the 
infographic.
This information should be public 
knowledge, and the Department of 
Education should release a formal 
report on the accused schools. 
While one could argue that an 
accusation doesnt necessarily mean 
that a sexual assault occurred at that 
school, the likelihood is high, since 
sexual assault cases are severely 
underreported, according to USA 
Today.
Hopefully, as society grows more 
open and people feel more comfortable reporting it, sexual assault will 
cease to be an underreported crime.
Sexual assault cases must be public domain
Phillip Seymour Hoffman died 
of an accidental drug overdose last 
Sunday. The 46-year-old actor won 
an Academy Award for Best Actor in 
the 2005 ?lm Capote, and received 
three Tony nominations for his extensive work in theater, according 
to The Washington Post. The actor 
relapsed into drug use after 23 years 
of sobriety.
Hoffmans death from heroin 
overdose was both a tragedy, and an 
important reminder that addiction is 
a medical problem, not a moral one.
Hoffman was sober for 23 years 
until a relapse in May 2013, according to Slate magazine. Drug addiction causes serious and permanent 
changes in the human brain, rewiring neural pathways and altering 
neurochemical reactions, according 
to the Journal of Neuroscience. Hoffmans long period of sobriety did not 
change the fact that his brain had 
been fundamentally altered by drug 
use.
People with addiction problems 
have the same inability to control 
their condition as a person with any 
other disease, according to the Journal of Neuroscience. 
Addiction is not a condition that 
can be solved with a 28-day stint in a 
rehabilitation center or forced away 
through sheer willpower; it is a lifelong and ongoing condition that requires constant management.
Despite these facts, our judicial 
system tends toward punishing addicts as if they were criminals, rather 
than seriously ill people in need of 
medical care. 
The United States represents 5 
percent of the worlds total population, but accounts for 25 percent of 
its prison population. An estimated 
75 percent of incarcerated people 
have some kind of problem with 
drugs or alcohol, according to the 
Center for Addiction Management. 
Nearly 25,000 people are convicted 
on federal drug charges every year, 
according to NBC.
Hoffmans death was certainly 
a tragedy, for his family and for the 
acting community at large. It also 
revealed the importance of recognizing addiction for the disease that it 
is, instead of criminalizing addicts 
for needing help.
Drug addicts need medical care, not jail time
Eunice Oh/Staff Artist
RACHEL COHEN*
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER*
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER
Contributing Editor
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Co-Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
SARA REMI FIELDS
Asst. Photo Editor
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
JOSH SMITH
Contributing Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA
Contributing Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 10, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Compiled by Sara Remi Fields
The Tartan is watching the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics! So we asked,
What is your favorite part of the games?
J.K. Rowling revision evidences that books belong to the readers
JUSTIN YAN
In a recent interview with Emma 
Watson for Wonderland magazine, 
J.K. Rowling, came out of left ?eld to 
take a kick at perhaps one of the most 
cherished aspects of Harry Potter: 
Ron and Hermiones romance. During the interview, Rowling admitted 
to Watson that Hermione might have 
been better off with Harry.
This revelation sent shock waves 
through the social networking world, 
and soon enough, fans voiced their 
confusion, anger, and disappointment. Tweets ranged from expressing heartbreak to denial to triumph 
as long-settled shipping wars erupted again throughout the fandom.
As a fan of the series, and having read all the books cover to cover, 
I was a little perplexed by the buzz 
surrounding Rowlings comments. 
After all, Rowling has made similar 
comments in the past, such as declaring Dumbledore to be gay and 
stating that she seriously considered 
killing off Ron halfway through the 
series.
But Rowlings comments beg the 
question: Why do the fans care so 
much about what Rowling says? In 
fact, why are fans angry that she has 
come out and said what she has about 
Ron and Hermiones relationship? 
Its extremely important to note 
that she had been answering questions in an interview  a formal 
venue that is sure to guarantee fan 
buzz online. Arent we, the fans, the 
reason that she feels prompted to 
throw these details out during such 
an interview?
Moreover, Rowling has left us 
with this comment and has obviously angered some of Harry Potter 
fandom. Fans are angry because they 
are taking her comments to heart. I 
dont think we should. 
As readers, we should evaluate a 
piece of work as it stood when published, not what the piece of work 
could have been. In fact, does Rowlings post-writing opinion on the 
novels matter at all?
Harry Potter should stand alone 
as a series. Even though Rowling is 
the author and Harry Potter was her 
work of art, any commentary or inference should be based on the work 
itself. 
Rowling can say anything about 
the novel, but the fact is that it really doesnt matter. Rowling stated 
that the reason she wanted Ron and 
Hermione together was out of a personal choice, and not for literary 
reasons. 
What fans and Rowling alike are 
forgetting is that novels, and artwork 
in general, are re?ections of an authors personal choices, and these 
choices do not have to be strictly 
artistic or literary. If they were, we 
would be left with a dry piece of 
work, devoid of any humanity that 
makes art moving or relatable.
As an artist, Rowling is allowed to 
look back and wistfully think, I wish 
this and I wish that. That response 
is natural, and it is her right to develop as both a writer and an artist. 
Readers and fans alike should not allow any of Rowlings thoughts, however, to affect the way in which they 
read and interpret the text. 
Even if Rowling had made some 
point or suggested some change that 
fans found agreeable, readers should 
still focus on the novel itself because, 
as a work of art, it is relevant only to 
the speci?c context in which it was 
created. 
The shifting thoughts from the 
author or society should not change 
peoples relationship with the original text.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
Coke uproar says post-racial U.S. a lie
BRANDON SCHMUCK
One of the most talked-about 
commercials from this years Super Bowl was not a comedic one 
from Budweiser or Geico, but what 
was meant to be a moving and inspiring video from Coca-Cola. The 
companys advertisement depicted 
Americans of various ethnic backgrounds singing America the Beautiful in seven foreign languages. 
While many people saw the commercial as representative of the diversity 
of America, others were outraged.
Following the airing of the 
commercial, hashtags such as 
#boycottcoke and #f***coke quickly 
made it to the top of Twitters trending list. Critics of the commercial 
expressed their dissatisfaction with 
Coca-Cola in statements such as  
Nice to see that coke likes to sing 
an AMERICAN song in the terrorists 
language. Way to go coke. You can 
leave America. Traditionalists argue 
that true Americans speak English.
It is sickening that people try to 
take a message of hatred out of a 
commercial with a message of unity. 
After all, almost all Americans descend from people that were once 
immigrants of a foreign country.
Many conservatives, such as 
former congressman Allen West 
(RFla.), have expressed their dismay at the commercial. In a blog 
post on his website, West described 
Coca-Cola as a company as American as they come and stated that 
this truly disturbing commercial 
was a sign that we are on the road to 
perdition. What is scary is that West 
believes that increased acceptance 
of others is leading America to some 
form of eternal punishment. 
The controversy caused by this 
commercial is completely ridiculous. 
Coca-Colas decision to air the commercial was a logical one, as they 
have recently received criticism for 
being a major sponsor of Sochi 2014 
Winter Olympics in Russia, a nation 
that recently legislated strong antigay laws. Coca-Colas commercial, 
with its inclusion of people from 
diverse backgrounds, as well as the 
?rst gay couple to be shown in a Super Bowl commercial, showed that 
Coca-Cola doesnt support discrimination against any culture or lifestyle.
Additionally, critics of this commercial are wrong to claim that English is the of?cial language of the 
United States. According to the U.S. 
Census Bureau, 60 million people in 
the United States speak a language 
other than English at home, and 7 
percent exclusively speak a language 
other than English.
Does the fact that this 7 percent 
does not speak English make them 
less American than you or I? America does not have a universal culture, 
but an array of cultures from around 
the world. This array of cultures is 
what makes our nation different. 
When conservatives associated the 
foreign languages spoken by the 
people in this commercial with illegal immigration and terrorism, they 
essentially insulted all members of 
cultural communities. 
These communities embody the 
heritage of the people living in them, 
and how are they any less American than the small homogeneous 
communities of Caucasians or African-Americans speaking English? 
America isnt a Caucasian community, nor is it only a Chinatown or Germantown. America is a melting pot.
Over the past century, America 
has made extensive progress in civil 
rights and equality. However, the 
fact that many still associate a single 
language with the nation shows that 
there is progress still to be made and 
that many are reluctant to change. 
Perhaps if Coca-Cola airs the same 
commercial in 20 years, people will 
simply see it as another ordinary, uncontroversial commercial, or better 
yet, as an accurate representation of 
this nation.
Brandon Schmuck (bschmuck@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.Michelle Wan/Art Editor
CVS takes tobacco from shelves in worthy move
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Last Wednesday, CVS Caremark 
 Americas most pro?table chain 
drugstore  announced its intention to stop selling tobacco products. The transition, nearly unprecedented in major retail history, will 
be completed by October.
According to company executives, the decision arose from a desire to bring the companys future 
plans in line with its current actions. 
CVS leads the trend of drugstores 
becoming increasingly af?liated 
with the American healthcare system. Of course, drugstores offering 
prescriptions and ?u shots is nothing 
new, but CVS and others are becoming more and more like mini-clinics. 
Currently, the company employs 
over 26,000 nurse practitioners and 
pharmacists who are responsible for 
everything from consultation and 
diagnosis to basic care, according to 
The New York Times.
CVS plans to continue moving in 
this direction, and so  in its eyes 
 cutting out tobacco may have 
been the only reasonable decision. 
Miraculously, a company in the retail industry recognized hypocrisy 
when it was staring it in the face and 
determined it wanted no part of it. 
For a company dedicated to serving 
peoples health, continuing to sell 
a product that remains the single 
most prominent preventable cause 
of disease, disability, and death in 
the United States would have been 
hypocrisy at its most heinous.
Its hard to comprehend anyone 
being opposed to such a sensible, 
positive decision  even to smokers, it is likely to be only a minor inconvenience  but there are always 
the critics.
Fox News has loudly expressed 
concerns about the legality of a private business choosing to deny the 
public the cigarettes that are their 
right, according to Media Matters 
for America. If you think this stance 
contradicts Fox Newss usual support of ethos in the free market, 
youd be right.
In fact, the only way to make 
sense of the channels reaction is to 
consider President Obamas outspoken approval of the CVS initiative. 
Fox News evidently views CVS banning tobacco as yet another example 
of Obamacare shoving its greedy ?ngers into everything Americans hold 
dear. Then again, Fox News would 
surely ?nd an objection to strawberry ice cream if they found out 
Obama had a particular liking for it.
So CVS made the right call  despite the fact that it estimates the 
move will cost them $2 billion in 
tobacco-related sales. No one reasonably expects to see a huge drop 
in smoking rates as a result of the 
change. There will always be another store at which to fuel smokers addictions. However, CVS hopes that 
others will follow its example and 
that the trend they launched will 
eventually culminate in noticeable 
change.
 change.
CVS is doing a 
good thing for this 
country and 
inspiring others to 
take its example.
In the meantime, CVS plans to 
initiate a program this spring designed to get smokers to quit. For 
reasons both of making up for lost 
revenue and cementing its anti-tobacco reputation, CVS plans to help 
half a million smokers recover.
It would be foolish to depict CVS 
as a hero, sel?essly protecting Americas health. Despite their healthcare 
leanings, CVS is still a retail company, primarily on the lookout for its 
own best interest.
 In this light, removing tobacco 
from shelves makes perfect practical 
sense, as doing so lines up with its 
healthcare image.
But is that so bad? Regardless of 
their interests or their intentions, 
CVS is doing a good thing for this 
country and its people, and inspiring others to take its example. CVS 
does not necessarily deserve praise, 
but its initiative does. A little sel?shness can go a long way for a positive 
outcome.
Ariel Hoffmaier (ahoffmai@) is 
Forum Editor for The Tartan.
Amrith Deepak
Math
First-year
Seeing all the countries at the 
opening ceremony.
Rachel Jue
Decision Science
Sophomore
I really like figure skating and 
speed skating.
Gabe Spade
Chemistry
Junior
The super halfpipe.
Lizzy Ha
ChemE, BME
Senior
I like watching the Winter Olympics because I really love skiing.
Nate Willis
Information Systems
First-year
I like that it is international, and 
the patriotism is great.
Alison Chiu/Staff Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 10, 2014
SPORTS COMMENTARYNBA All-Star Game snubs top contenders from competing
 ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
With the end of that big 
football game last week, the 
NBA All-Star Game is approaching quickly, and with 
it comes the years widely anticipated All-Star selections. 
Amid cries that players were 
stiffed out of well-deserved 
All-Star appearances, a group 
of very deserving candidates 
ended up receiving spots in 
the game. There is also a group 
of head-scratchers that truly 
dont belong. So, as the yearly 
debate over who got snubbed 
rages on, heres my two cents.
Lets start with the Western Conference, since its far 
easier to identify which spots 
should be vacated. Its almost 
impossible to say someone was 
cheated out of a spot when trying to dissect the extremely 
talented West, since there is 
a list of about 20 players who 
could ?ll the 12 remaining 
spots left. The only player who 
does not belong on this AllStar roster, based on play this 
season, is Kobe Bryant, and 
thats only due to an injury.  
Unfortunately, Los Angeles 
Clippers reserve guard Chris 
Paul might also miss the game 
due to an injury, leaving two 
spots that might open up. 
Since both players are guards, 
the two reserves will likely be 
guards.
 However, since there is one 
spot on the roster that can be 
either a frontcourt or backcourt player, it is possible that 
one guard and one frontcourt 
player will be added to the 
mix.  
There are four candidates 
who truly deserve these last 
two spots. One is Memphis 
Grizzlies guard Michael Conley. He has played fantastically 
on the offensive end this season, keeping a?oat a Grizzlies 
offense that has been stagnant 
over the past few years, even 
with the absence of center 
Marc Gasol. What the team 
has lost in Gasols high postpassing they have regained in 
Conleys excellent season at 
the point. 
Conley ranks near the top 
of the league in both Player 
Ef?ciency Rating (PER) and 
Offensive Win Shares, which 
are statistics that show how 
well he has played using a 
massive volume of the teams 
possessions, taking care of the 
basketball, and taking  and 
making  good shots. While 
his defense this year has worsened, his notable offensive uptick has carried a ?awed team, 
plagued by injuries and an awful start, to compete for a playoff berth in the West.
Another deserving candidate is Phoenix Suns guard 
Goran Dragic. The Suns are 
one of the NBAs best stories 
this year.  Despite preseason 
predictions that this team 
was tanking and playing for 
a draft pick, Jeff Hornaceks 
stellar coaching and guard 
Eric Bledsoes development 
have turned this team into a 
legitimate playoff threat. In 
addition to Bledsoe, Dragic, 
who was known for so long 
as an excellent backup point 
guard, was having the best 
season of his career. Many 
people thought the Suns of 
Anarchy, as fans affectionately 
call them, were doomed when 
Bledsoe sat out for an undisclosed amount of time due to 
a meniscus injury. 
These people were wrong. 
Dragic has been an unstoppable force since taking over 
as full-time point guard, being near the top of the league 
in points and assists per game, 
?eld goal percentage, PER, 
win shares, and win shares per 
48 minutes. After his massive 
amount of playing time, its 
time to consider Dragic one 
of the best guards in the NBA. 
His defense is above average 
and very few point guards in 
the league are actually good 
defenders, so he gets points 
for positional scarcity. 
Forget one of the two possible vacancies  Dragic easily 
deserved the nod above Portland Trail Blazers point guard 
Damien Lillard. Lillard is having an excellent season and 
deserves to be an All-Star, but 
with limited spots, Dragics 
superior offensive and defensive season should rank above 
Lillards impressive clutch 
shooting. 
Its splitting hairs at this 
point, but denying the 47 minutes of star basketball that 
Dragic provides the Suns in 
favor of the one minute of superstardom that Lillard provides the Trailblazers seems 
unfair. Dragic might still make 
the All-Star Game if Chris Paul 
is unable to play, but Paul is 
one of the top ?ve talents in 
the league, and hopefully hes 
back on the court sooner rather than later.
The most baf?ing omission was New Orleans Pelicans 
center Anthony Davis. Already 
known as a premier defensive stopper, Davis was really 
coming around offensively as 
well, even placing ?fth in the 
league in PER up to this point, 
taking high ef?ciency shots 
and protecting the ball.  That 
statistic does not even include 
how much Davis has improved 
without the ball. 
He has become a top pickand-roll big over the course of 
the season. Despite an injury 
that stole some of Daviss season, his offensive and defensive activity has been hugely 
positive for the Pelicans. This 
success is quite a task considering that the roster is built 
around three players with 
identical skill sets. There have 
not been any holes in Daviss 
game this year, so the problem 
is ?guring out whose spot he 
deserves.
Its likely that Davis will 
get Bryants spot, considering 
that he both deserves it and 
that the game will be played 
in New Orleans. The fact that 
a deserving New Orleans 
representative was denied a 
chance to play in this game 
on his home ?oor is probably 
not something the NBA will let 
happen upon further review.
The fourth and ?nal omission from this All-Star team in 
the West is Sacramento Kings 
forward DeMarcus Cousins. 
He has been an absolute beast 
offensively, regularly putting 
up 30 and 10 lines for the 
Kings. There are two reasons 
he ended up missing the cut. 
The ?rst is that the frontcourt 
spots in the West are extremely dif?cult to get; there are far 
more deserving players than 
there are spots. The second is 
that Cousins often gets docked 
for perceived character issues 
stemming from spats with his 
coach and teammates as a 
rookie. 
The truth is that Cousinss 
game has been elevated to 
another level. Hes getting 
better offensively without the 
ball and has become unstoppable when he has possession. 
His defense is still subpar, but 
its no longer the massive liability it was before this year. 
On a team with more assets 
than the Kings, he could be an 
MVP candidate, but his season 
to date has been excellent. 
The problem with saying he 
should be in the All-Star Game 
is ?guring out whose spot he 
should take. The six big men 
on the current roster and, 
potentially, Davis, are all having stellar seasons. Clippers 
Blake Grif?n, Houston Rockets Dwight Howard, and Trail 
Blazers LaMarcus Aldridge 
are in MVP talks, and Oklahoma City Thunders Kevin 
Durant is probably the MVP at 
this point in the season. Dallas Mavericks Dirk Nowitzki is 
having an excellent year and 
has been one of the most ef?cient players in the league 
to date, and Minnesota Timberwolves Kevin Love is probably the best all-around power 
forward in the game. Cousins 
should be in the All-Star Game 
 there just arent enough 
spots in the West.
The West does not have any 
true snubs because there are 
way too many deserving players to ?t all of them on the roster. These four only scratched 
the surface, but players like 
San Antonio Spurs forward 
Tim Duncan and Thunder 
forward Serge Ibaka are also 
worthy of consideration. The 
pool of players to choose from 
made for a tough ?eld more 
than it resulted in snubs.
The Eastern Conference, 
on the other hand, probably 
stretched a bit to ?nd enough 
players to be in this game. 
However, there are two de?-
nite snubs of players who 
were more than deserving of 
an All-Star spot, while others 
were seemingly chosen for no 
reason. 
The truth is, of the 12 East 
All-Stars, only eight deserved 
their spots. The omissions of 
Indiana Pacers guard Lance 
Stephenson and Toronto Raptors guard Kyle Lowry show 
just how far the East had to 
reach to ?nd big names to put 
in an All-Star Game.
The inclusion of Raptors 
guard DeMar DeRozan over 
fellow Raptor Lowry makes 
no sense. With the possible 
exception of Miami Heat 
guard Dwyane Wade, Lowry 
has been the best guard in the 
East. DeRozan was supposed 
to be a big piece of the Raptors 
before the season, but Lowrys 
amazing year has put him at 
the center of the teams astonishing turnaround, ascending from a cellar dweller last 
year to a division leader this 
year. Part of their record has 
to do with the Atlantic Division, but the Raptors are actually playing good basketball. 
DeRozan has been relatively 
inef?cient this year, taking 
tons of bad shots, while Lowry 
has kept everyone in the offense humming. He has been 
generally excellent as a playmaker, in addition to being a 
good shooter. Lowry is having 
a better year than Cleveland 
Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving 
by a long shot. Irving is having a subpar year by anyones 
standards  let alone the AllStar teams  but he is still 
having a much better season 
than Brooklyn Nets forward 
Joe Johnson. Lowry probably 
deserved to be a starter.
Indiana Pacers guard Lance 
Stephenson was also snubbed. 
His improvement has catapulted the Pacers from being 
the third team in the East to 
comfortably leading the conference. Last year he was a 
complementary player, but 
this year he is the best backcourt player in one of the best 
backcourts in the league. His 
defense has been suffocating, 
and he completely eliminates 
whoever he is guarding. His 
offense has been okay  its 
been very ef?cient thus far, 
but not spectacular. However, Stephenson deserved a 
All-Star spot in the East, and 
should not have been denied it 
because Irvings name is more 
recognized (despite his huge 
regression) or because Nets 
Joe Johnson hit two buzzer 
beaters despite having a generally bad season.
The Eastern Conference 
All-Star team, which should 
have 10 deserving players, 
only has eight while the Western Conference All-Stars spill 
over the roster limit. This 
game will probably not be a 
classic, but the difference in 
talent between the East and 
West might be on full display. 
The exhibition nature of the 
All-Star Game means it usually 
ends up as a highlight contest, 
so the honor of being named 
an All-Star matters more than 
the game. This year, being 
named an Eastern Conference 
All-Star might be even less 
important.
Then write for The Tartan! 
The time commitment is lexible, 
and no prior experience is required. 
Contact sports@thetartan.org if interested.
Like Sports?
Courtesy of Keith Allison via ?ickr 
Goran Dragic, point guard and shooting guard for the Phoenix Suns, has 
had the best season of his career.
Courtesy of Keith Allison via ?ickr 
New Orleans Pelicans center Anthony Davis has made great strides to 
improve his ball-handling and offensive game.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
Anne-Sophie Kim/Assistant Layout Manager

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
For the third time this season, Carnegie Mellon set out 
to face a non-Division III opponent, this time coming in the 
form of Duquesne University. 
The ?nal count, 72, belied a 
series of close-fought matches, 
a few of which were decided 
with tiebreakers. The Carnegie Mellon team picked up its 
two wins in No. 1 singles and 
No. 3 doubles by sophomore 
Abhishek Alla and the team 
of sophomore Paul Okuda 
and ?rst-year Kiril Kirkov, respectively. In the end, though, 
Carnegie Mellon could not 
pull out the victory over tough 
competition.
In one of the matches decided by a second set tiebreaker, No. 5 singles ?rst-year Kenny Zheng put up a ?ght before 
losing a tough set. After the 
match, he showed resolve saying, Its disappointing to lose 
a close match. When a match 
is that close it comes down to 
mental toughness, and he was 
just mentally tougher than I 
was on the big points. Thats 
something I need to work on 
going forward.  
Zhengs loss was just one 
in a day full of close defeats, 
but the takeaway from a day 
like this is that Zheng, as well 
as the rest of the team, played 
hard, and that a few key 
bounces might have swung 
some of the matches.
Alla was impressive, winning his round in two matches and providing one of the 
few major bright spots on the 
day for Carnegie Mellon.  He 
picked up his second consecutive individual match, which 
adds to his recent wins in the 
USTA/ITA National Small 
College Championships in 
October and the USTA/ITA 
Southeast Regional Championships at the end of September. The regional tournament 
saw Carnegie Mellon produce 
three out of four semi?nalists 
 ?rst-year Kenny Zheng, junior Christian Heany-Secord, 
and the champion.
With only two games in the 
books in the spring portion of 
the season, Carnegie Mellon 
has beaten one Division I opponent and lost to another.  
After much success in the fall 
portion of the season, Carnegie Mellon now stands at 52 
on the season.  They have a 
long break to regroup before 
they play West Virginia Wesleyan College and can try to 
get back on track on Feb. 22.
Mens tennis suffers against Duquesne with 72 defeat
NISHANT RENIWAL
Junior Staffwriter
On April 20, 2013, Manchester United had just won 
the English Premier League 
for the 20th time in their 
history, a whole four match 
days early. Striker Robin van 
Persie, their marquee purchase in the summer, was on 
his way to scoring 30 goals 
and carrying the team to the 
title. He and his partner, forward Wayne Rooney, worked 
together beautifully, and the 
emergence of several young 
players in the squad had fans 
brimming with optimism. 
All looked rosy until May 8, 
when Sir Alex Ferguson, the 
teams manager for 26 years, 
decided to call time on his 
career. Most fans of the club 
today had never seen United 
without Sir Alex. There was 
an uncertainty never before 
experienced at the club, but 
in David Moyes, they thought 
they had appointed a manager in the same vein as Ferguson; someone who could 
provide stability to the club 
and continue their unparalleled success.
Fast forward to the present, and the worst fears of 
United fans have been realized  they are currently seventh in the league and have 
already lost an alarming four 
games at Old Trafford. Their 
playing style is more mid-table than one-of-Europes-best. 
Nothing seems to be working 
 not the defense, mid?eld, 
or attack. Where did it all go 
wrong?
It would be churlish to suggest that Uniteds record boils 
down to one single factor from 
among the mid?eld, Moyess 
tactical incompetence, the 
lack of Sir Alexs winning 
mentality, or the absence of 
chief executive David Gill in 
the boardroom. The problem 
is a combination of these individual issues. It all began 
with the double retirement 
of Gill and Ferguson. They essentially ran the club together 
for more than a decade, and 
the loss of this pair in itself is 
hard to overcome, even with 
Uniteds vast resources.
On top of these problems, 
it is genuinely hard to imagine that United could have 
had it any worse in regard to 
the summer transfer window. 
United won the league title 
by 11 points, but that success 
was solely due to Ferguson, 
and shadowed the blatant incompetence of several areas 
of the squad. For starters, the 
mid?eld is as barren as it has 
ever been. Besides Michael 
Carrick, United does not have 
a single mid?elder capable 
of slotting into any of the 
top seven sides in the country. Mid?elders Tom Cleverley, Anderson Lus de Abreu 
Oliveira, and an aging Ryan 
Giggs were never viable options as Carricks partner. 
United needed reinforcements in this position. All 
they managed to get was Marouane Fellaini, who turned 
out to be a terrible ?t beside 
Carrick. Mid?elders Arturo 
Vidal, Ilkay Gundogan, Thiago Alcantara, Kevin Strootman, and even Ander Herrera 
would have been much better 
options.
There were zero other 
transfers. Zero! Why is there 
no new left back to replace 
Patrice Evra? Why are there 
no new wingers after the 
shockingly bad seasons Nani, 
Antonio Valencia, and Ashley 
Young have had? Why is there 
no central defensive cover 
considering Rio Ferdinand 
and Nemanja Vidi

---------------------------------------------------

Reza Vali
CMU professor mixes Western music 
with the sounds of his native Iran  B4
02.10.14 Volume 107, Issue 17
DIY Dorm Improvements
Tips for personalizing your living space  B6
Jakeisrain & C Street Brass
The electronic brass collaboration sees the 
release of their debut EP Wop de Wop  B8
Postmodern Jukebox
Pop songs with a vintage twist  B7

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Check out this weeks selection of comics  
some from CMU students!
11
Dollar Movie
AB Movies presents The Notebook, Don Jon, 
and Amour.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Chloe Thompson
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Valentines 
Day and Facebook disasters.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Shrek
The beloved family movie hits the stage.3
Vali
CMU professors symphony inspired by the 
rivers of Pittsburgh is performed by the PSO.
4
Glass Center
The Pittsburgh Glass Center presents Halfway 
to Somewhere. 
5
DIY Dorm
Tired of spending money on a trendy room? 
Read up on these projects.
6
Jukebox
Postmodern Jukebox offers a refreshing spin 
on todays pop music.
7
Jakeisrain
Carnegie Mellon musician Jakeisrain presented 
a concert with alumni in C Street Brass.
8
The Planets
The PSO presents Gustav Holsts The Planets.10
Puzzles
Stretch your mind with crosswords and mazes.13
Horoscopes
Let the fates decide how you spend Valentines 
Day with your special someone.
14
Calendar
Things to do on campus and around the town.15

---------------------------------------------------

theatre
pillbox 02.10.143
Shrek is layered like an onion 
Musical adaptation features ?avorful talent, tearful costumes 
Last Thursday, Shrek: The Musical premiered 
at Pittsburghs Byham Theater. While its not 
Broadways next big hit, the musical is a solid two 
hours of laughs for the whole family. Long story 
short, Shrek is about an ogre who must rescue 
Princess Fiona for Lord Farquaad in return for some 
peace and quiet. While the original movie thrived on 
action and comedy, the musical dives into character 
development. 
Shrek the ogre (Billy Mason) is still crude and 
sarcastic, but the rest of the cast have subtleties 
that prevent the musical from being a carbon copy 
of the movie. Shreks sidekick, Donkey (David 
Toole), is even more hyper than the donkey voiced 
by Eddie Murphy, Princess Fiona (Emily Lynne 
Miller) is somewhat bipolar and more ridiculous 
than her movie counterpart, and Lord Farquaad (Tim 
Hartman) has been transformed into a fierce diva. 
However, side characters, such as Pinocchio, are 
essentially identical to their movie counterparts, and 
the musical could have benefited from spicing up 
those characters. 
The musical follows the same tactics as the movie 
 there are fart jokes for the kids with sprinklings 
of dark humor to keep older audience members 
engaged. Some lines were taken straight out of the 
movie, but the musical has plenty of fresh scenes up 
its sleeve. Fine moments include Donkeys rap solo, 
Fionas violent tussle with wildlife, and Farquaads 
perplexing interactions with his lackeys. All scenes 
are backed up by strong vocals and general talent.
That being said, some scenes dont translate well 
from the movie to the musical. Shreks battle with 
the dragon, now reduced to an odd, shaking  
head on wheels, has been turned into a hypnotic 
spectacle involving Shrek flailing his body, lights 
flashing, and Fiona singing in the foreground. 
Strobe lights are often used during critical moments, 
turning serious scenes unintentionally funny. 
However, these odd scenes add a certain charm to 
the musical.
Lackluster sets and average costumes really hold 
the musical back. Many sets are merely painted 
backgrounds, sometimes with a prop or two to 
switch things up. Costumes are decent, but a few 
are mildly terrifying. While playing Shrek, Mason 
wears an ogre suit that made me uncomfortable 
whenever I looked into his eyes. 
Hartmans Farquaad outfit definitely stands out 
among the rest. The painfully short character is 
played by a tall actor on his knees. Fake skinny legs 
are strapped onto the actors thighs, while the rest of 
the real legs are hidden by black fabric and a cape. 
Farquaads outfit is generally impressive, though 
also fuel for nightmares.
Despite these drawbacks, Shrek: The Musical is 
worth seeing. The musical has so-bad-its-good 
scenes, along with genuinely clever moments. 
For Shrek diehards, the musical is a must see. For 
everyone else, the humor and story is strong enough 
to make the two hours fly by. Shrek: The Musical will 
be showing in Byham Theater until Feb. 16.
Angela Liu | Junior Staffwriter
Advice for awkward people
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Valentines Day is the 
worst. Im always single 
and have nothing to do, 
and all of my friends have 
significant others so while 
they go out and have fun 
together, Im all alone in 
my room with nothing but 
my laptop and sadness 
for company. Can you 
give me some advice on 
how to pass the worst 
weekend in the world? Im 
sure youve dealt with this 
kind of thing in the past.
Sincerely,
Sad Over Acquired 
Loneliness, Only Neighbor 
is Edible
Dear SO ALONE,
First of all, we have no idea 
what youre talking about. 
We are two extremely 
handsome, debonair, and 
intelligent men who have 
never had trouble wooing 
a lady for Valentines Day. 
That said we do have  
friends  who have had to 
deal with being alone on 
this day. At any rate, heres 
a few ideas that weve 
found tried and true  for 
our friends, of course.
1) Ice cream. Eat all of it. 
All. Of. It. 
2) Watch an action movie. 
No romance or anything. 
3) Play a video game. 
4) Get together with your 
friends who arent doing 
anything and go out. 
Above all, dont wallow in 
your own misery. So what if 
its Valentines Day? Its just 
another day. Call up your 
friends.
But dont call me, Ill be in 
Canada,
Ryan & Matt
Dear Matt & Ryan,
Im freaking 
out. You know   
awkwardfamilyphotos.
com? My familys 
Thanksgiving photo just 
made it on the front page. 
It has only been up for a 
day, and already has 743 
likes, and 312 shares on 
Facebook! Im doomed. 
No one will ever talk to 
me again, and my family 
will be the next big meme, 
like the Star Wars kid, 
Doge, or that one with the 
porcupine. What do I do?
Miraculously Elected 
Major Entertainment, But 
Alas, Internet Talks
Dear MEME BAIT,
It now has 745 likes and 
314 shares on Facebook. 
Matt and I thought it was 
hilarious. Unfortunately, as 
you know, once an image 
is on the Internet, its there 
forever. There are a few 
solutions: You can change 
your name and try to get 
into the witness protection 
program, or figure out 
who leaked the photo and 
retaliate. However, what 
is probably in your best 
interest, is to sit back and 
enjoy your 15 minutes of 
fame. Also, do you know 
how many stupid images 
people post everyday? 
Chances are, very few 
of those 314 shares are 
actually genuine clicks 
to the image. Plus, there 
will be a new very popular 
meme by the time this goes 
to print anyway. I dont 
even remember the Star 
Wars kid.
Go search for cat GIFs    
youll feel better,
Ryan & Matt.
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Valentines Day and Internet infamy
Shrek: The Musical adds character development and an original songbook to the beloved films plot, 
creating a family-friendly musical comedy.
Rachel Cohen |  Publisher

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 02.10.14
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)s 
performance of Gustav Holsts The Planets was de?nitely 
the most heavily advertised event last weekend at Heinz 
Hall. But tucked at the beginning of the program was 
an event with local ?avor: the world premiere of the 
PSOs Elements series, a piece commissioned from ?ve 
Pittsburgh composers by the Orchestra.  
Among those ?ve composers is Reza Vali, a Carnegie 
Mellon professor of composition and director of research 
and education at the Center for Iranian Music on 
campus, which Vali co-founded last year. Vali wrote one 
of the ?ve movements in the piece, connected to the 
other movements by a common motif: the elements  
?re, earth, wind, water, and metal.  
Vali chose water. As a Pittsburgh composer, hes 
inspired by the bodies of water that shape the city. His 
favorite is the Youghiogheny River, a wide body of water 
that ?ows into the Monongahela River, one of the three 
rivers of Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh is the city of rivers, he 
said. But I particularly like the Yough.  
The river inspired the name for Valis movement: 
Ravn. The title is a Persian word meaning ?owing, 
but its root comes from the Persian verb ravar. Sound 
like an English word you know?  If you say river in the 
Pittsburgh dialect, you get very close to that, Vali said. 
Despite his love of Pittsburgh rivers, Vali grew up on 
the other side of the globe. He was born in Qazvin, Iran, 
about 100 miles north of Tehran. When he was young, 
his father bought an accordion for his younger brother  
but Vali picked it up instead. He was too small to play it 
upright, so he laid it on the ground, playing it by pushing 
and pulling it horizontally across the ?oor.   
When he was 13, Vali read in a magazine that the 
great 20th-century composer Bla Bartk had collected 
Hungarian folk music. The idea of collecting folk music 
really appealed to me, he said. He began doing research 
of his own, recording the oral traditions of Persian 
musicians on cassette tapes. In his studies, ?rst at the 
Tehran Conservatory of Music and later at the Academy 
of Music in Vienna, Vali immersed himself in Western 
music, but he eventually found himself drawn back to 
Persian music.  
The Persian music system is called dastgah  a word 
that comes from the roots for hand and place, named 
for the act of pressing ?ngers to a ?ngerboard. After 
opening his eyes to dastgah for the ?rst time, Vali said, 
It kind of blew my mind. 
Persian music intervals are different, Vali explained. 
The Persian octave has 24 notes, as opposed to the 12 in 
a Western chromatic scale, so Persian musicians 
actually have more notes at their disposal than 
traditional classical composers. In the Western system, 
these would be called half-tones or quarter-tones: 
pitches that dont count as true notes because they lie 
between the notes of the Western system. 
But Vali faced a serious obstacle in his desire to pursue 
dastgah. In order to understand Persian music, he said, 
You have to play a Persian instrument, and I couldnt.   
As a trombonist, Vali was too practiced in Western music 
to easily pick up a Persian instrument. Furthermore, 
dastgah is an oral system; according to Vali, it takes 25 
to 30 years to become a pro?cient Persian musician, just 
because the process of memorizing the music takes so 
long.  
But Vali was determined. His solution? If he couldnt 
pick up a Persian instrument, he would invent one. I 
cheated, Vali joked, explaining, I wanted to know how 
the system really works. Thus, the arghonoon was born 
 a silent keyboard hooked up to a computer, which 
uses software to send a pitch back to the instrument.  
Valis work is now based primarily in dastgah. Ravn, 
of course, was an exception; writing a piece for Western 
instruments in Persian scales would essentially be 
asking those musicians to relearn how to play. It would 
be a nightmare, Vali said. Several Western instruments, 
like the oboe, dont even have the capacity to play 
pitches between notes.  But these limitations havent 
stopped Vali, or some of his colleagues. Vali recently 
struck a deal with Neal Berntsen, a professor of trumpet 
and chair of the brass division at Carnegie Mellon. Vali 
would compose a piece for Berntsen for trumpet, but 
only if Berntsen learned to play Persian trumpet.  
Incredibly, Berntsen complied. He ordered a custom 
alteration to one of his trumpets, adding a fourth tab to 
the instrument. This tab could lower the pitch of a note 
by a quarter of a tone, allowing the trumpet to play the 
notes-between-notes dictated by the Persian system. 
The result was, as Vali called it, a microtonal trumpet.  
With diverse pursuits in both musical traditions, Vali 
found himself immersed ?rst in Western music, then 
in Persian music, and ?nally in a fusion of the two. As 
for his Persian trumpet collaboration with Berntsen, 
Vali hopes it will be ready for the Brevard Music Center 
Festival in North Carolina, where he hopes to premiere it 
this summer.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher
Courtesy of Reza Vali
In pieces such as his Pittsburgh-inspired Ravn, Carnegie Mellon professor of composition Reza Vali fuses the 
Western music of his formal education with the Persian musical traditions of his native Iran to create a 
transcultural sound all his own.
CMU professor blends musical cultures
Reza Vali mixes a Western musical education with a love for the sounds of his native Iran

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 02.10.145
Pittsburgh Glass Center premieres new display
Halfway to Somewhere exhibits the differing styles and collaborations of two talented glass artists
Visitors ?ocked to the Pittsburgh Glass Center (PGC) 
last Friday night for the opening of the Halfway 
to Somewhere exhibit by resident artists Granite 
Calimpong of Seattle and Brent Rogers of Chicago. 
The exhibit is a result of the six-week residency at the 
PGC between Calimpong and Rogers, who ?rst met in 
2013. Halfway to Somewhere is marked most notably 
by the striking contrast between the styles of the two 
artists. 
Calimpong, according to his website, originally from 
Northern California and more recently from Seattle, grew 
up as the son of a potter and was introduced to glass 
as an artistic medium in college at the University of 
California, San Diego. Rogers, born and raised in Seattle 
but currently living in Chicago, educated himself in glass 
and illustration at the Pratt Fine Art Center and Pilchuck 
Glass School. He was also an intern at Benjamin Moore, 
Inc., according to the PGC website. 
Calimpongs glasswork is both blown and cold worked 
 glass that, as the name implies, is shaped with tools 
like sanders and tile saws rather than the high heat of 
glassblowing. Calimpongs work looked more like the 
traditional vases and jugs that one might expect to see 
at a glass exhibition, while Rogerss work was much 
more abstract.
Many of Calimpongs pieces were more traditional forms 
with some distinguishing, more modern characteristics. 
Calimpong created, for example, vases that looked like 
ordinary round-bottomed vases, but with the middle 
third cut out. According to the statement on his website, 
Calimpong strives to exhibit work that exhibits 
balance and clarity of form. Whether the work is tight 
and symmetrical or loose in its manifestations, I am 
dedicated to creating glass that is carefully considered, 
cleanly executed, and exhibits the attention to detail 
that I employ during every step of the process.
Calimpongs pieces were, as the artist said, clean and 
symmetrical, while Rogerss work was clean but usually 
anything but symmetrical. Rogers pieces dont fall 
into any kind of category of vase that most viewers 
would recognize. Instead, Rogers makes use of different 
techniques like painting, lamination, and ?ocked glass 
to convey his ideas about rejection, acceptance, and 
failure, according to the PGC website. 
Rogers pieces were often dif?cult to interpret, such as a 
white, wall-mounted rectangle with a diamond-shaped 
cutout and blue, angled glass pipes running through it. 
Some, however, clearly embodied the cyclical human 
process of creation, such as three rectangular pillars, 
each containing a pit of smooth glass  one white, one 
gray, and one so black that at ?rst it is dif?cult to tell 
that it is an indentation, rather than a black mark, on the 
surface of the pillar. 
The strongest pieces of the exhibition came from 
collaboration between Rogers and Calimpong, such as 
a sleek red, bullet-shaped piece of glass with a black hole 
on its ?at front, and a series of what looked like crushed, 
bent glass cylinders with patterns on either end.  
Often, the hard-line contrast between Calimpongs and 
Rogers works gave the exhibit a lack of coherency; 
it was hard to glean a theme or message from work 
that hailed from two completely different planes of the 
aesthetic spectrum.
While the individual pieces clearly showed the skill and 
glass-working master of Calimpong and Rogers, too 
often, looking at two subsequent pieces of the exhibition 
was more likely to leave viewers disoriented rather than 
enlightened, between the abstract bright and solid colors 
of Rogers work and Calimpongs semi-opaque, smooth 
vases.
Halfway to Somewhere will be on view at the PGC 
through Apr. 20, 2014.
Brian Trimboli | News Co-Editor
Julia Larrabee | Junior Photographer
Julia Larrabee | Junior Photographer
The works of the two artists differ  greatly in style, 
lending the exhibition an incoherent feeling.
Much of Brent Rogerss work is difficult to interpret,
as it is often very abstract.
Julia Larrabee | Junior Photographer
As part of the exhibits opening ceremony, visitors 
were treated to a glass blowing demonstration.
Halfway to Somewhere will be on exhibition at the 
Pittsburgh Glass Center through April 20.
Halfway to Somewhere exhibits the work of accomplished artists Granite Calimpong and Brent Rogers.
Julia Larrabee | Junior Photographer
Julia Larrabee | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

6craft
pillbox 02.10.14
Have you ever seen artsy dorm room decorations on 
Pinterest or Tumblr but been discouraged by their 
long and complicated instructions? Do-it-yourself (DIY) 
dcor can de?nitely make a room look unique and 
personalized, but it can seem like a hassle as well. There 
are, nonetheless, some crafts that do not require much 
effort or time. Now you can make your dorm room or 
apartment look like lifestyle store Anthropologie!
Mason Jars
The mason jar is currently at the center of most DIY 
crafts and embraced by hipsters, for good reason. Like 
most jars, it is versatile and can be used for storage. 
However, mason jars can also be decorated and used to 
personalize a room. To spice up a room with a mason jar, 
use it as a candle holder by placing a candle inside, and 
then ?lling the jar with sand to hold the candle in place. 
An alternative is to make the candle itself inside of the 
jar. This project requires more time, but simply involves 
placing a wick inside the jar, making the wax, pouring 
the wax into the jar, and letting it stand. To add a 
personal touch, place glitter on the outside. 
Another glitter design is what deal-?nding website 
sweetnsourdeals.com calls the Fire?ies in a Jar night 
lantern. To create this design, cut open a glow stick, 
empty it into a jar, add glitter, and seal the top of the jar 
before shaking it for a glittery glow-in-the-dark lantern. 
Mugs
Mugs are another small item that you can personalize 
to make your living area feel more like home. While you 
could buy a collection of fancy mugs, they are expensive. 
For a cheaper solution, buy a white-colored mug and 
use a Sharpie to draw or write whatever you want on it. 
While black Sharpies can make the mug look serious and 
artsy, using colorful Sharpies can make your mug look 
more playful. Some stores sell silk screens with girly 
?oral or butter?y designs that function as a stencil for 
things that arent ?at, like mugs. Use these to add fancy 
designs or letters to your mug.
Lights
Lights are another cool option that you can make or 
decorate on your own to add a unique touch to your 
living space. The easiest option is to buy a string of 
lights and put them around your bed or living room (or 
both, if youre obsessed). You could also string the lights 
around a hula hoop spray painted black and duct tape 
the lights to the hula hoop for a decorative piece thatll 
look like it required more time and effort than it actually 
necessitated. 
Another alternative to stringing lights around your room 
is to twist the lights into a shape, like a heart, or to spell 
out a word when putting them up on your wall. 
Lamps
Another crafty idea, which may not be suited to 
everyones taste, involves wrapping ribbons of different 
colors and patterns around an empty lampshade. Not 
only will this touch make a personalized lamp that no 
one else will have, but the light coming through the 
ribbon will also make a cool pattern on your walls. You 
could copy the wire light ?xtures sold at Anthropologie 
by cutting the handles off a wire basket and then cutting 
open a section for the outlet cover. 
Walls
Wall decorations are a major part of making your living 
space more homey. Decorations can range from posters 
and bookshelves to something fancy like a tapestry. To 
create a bookshelf that appears to be ?oating, attach 
bookends to your wall and stack your books on top of 
them. Alternatively, recreate the uneven bookshelf sold 
at Anthropologie. You could spend the $1,400 for the 
store-bought version, or glue together small planks of 
wood in differing sizes and spray paint them so they look 
classy. 
Letters and Photos
To add even more ?are to a room, spell out your name 
or a certain word or phrase using large letters. Generic 
letters can be found at stores like Michaels Arts and 
Crafts or Hobby Lobby, but you can personalize them 
with your own design. Paint them, add glitter, or even 
cover them with scrapbook paper or fabric for something 
more individualized. 
Photos are something you cant really personalize, but 
you certainly can be creative with the way that you put 
them up. Looking at photos of your favorite memories 
may also cheer you up when youre unhappy. Collages 
are the most commonly used photo arrangement. Simply 
arrange the photos in a pleasing pattern in a certain area 
of the room. 
You can also string photos across a wall. Using string 
that is somewhat transparent, randomly place regular 
clothespins on the string. Use the clothespins to hold the 
photos in place. This arrangement will bring more of a 
vintage vibe to your living space. 
Jewelry
Jewelry holders are a ?nal way to personalize your 
room. These are great because they also showcase your 
pieces of jewelry, allowing them to add to the dcor. You 
can screw tiny hooks into a wooden hanger, and then 
hang your long necklaces on the hooks. You could also 
place fancy nails into a plank of wood  possibly spray 
painted a cool color  and then hang rings, bracelets, 
and necklaces on the nails. 
There really are countless crafty opportunities for you 
to personalize your living space, regardless of cost or 
expertise. Some of them might be time consuming, but 
making these crafts can be fun or relaxing as well. Make 
them in your free time or when taking a break from 
homework. You could even use one of these ideas as a 
bonding activity for your club or organization. 
Nikita Mishra | Staffwriter
Personalize your space with simplistic dcor
Easy DIY projects for improving any dorm room or apartment in a ?ash using everyday items 
Courtesy of P5ycho P3nguin via Flickr
Simply attach bookends to your wall to create a 
bookshelf that appears to be floating.
Personalizing your space can be as simple as adding a 
distinctive touch to your mug using a Sharpie.
Courtesy of Emily Katharine May via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.10.147
Are you displeased with the state of modern pop music? 
Cant stand autotune, singers who can barely sing, 
and blasts of distorted electronica and synth? Then 
Scott Bradlee, a New York-based professional pianist, 
has a solution for you: Postmodern Jukebox. Under the 
YouTube channel name ScottBradleeLovesYa, Bradlee 
and a group of other musicians cover favorite 
(or not-so-favorite) pop hits with a vintage twist.
When Postmodern Jukebox reimagines songs, they 
become something very different. Justin Biebers 
Beauty and a Beat becomes a 1940s Sinatra-esque 
swing jam and Miley Cyruss We Cant Stop a sultry 
50s doo-wop. 
Robin Thickes Blurred Lines is turned into a bluegrass 
barn dance, and Psys Gentleman a 1920s jazz song, 
complete with dancing ?appers. 
The lead singer, Robyn Adele Anderson, has a unique 
voice that radiates suave vintage class while Bradlee 
and the rest of the band ?ll the songs with great 
instrumentation.
But the crowning pinnacle of their work is an album 
in which they reinvented seven Nickelback songs as if 
they were produced by the legendary Motown records. 
Nickelback is a band so infamous for their horrendous 
music that, in 2011, over 50,000 people signed a petition 
at www.change.org to prevent them playing as the 
halftime show for the Detroit Lions on Thanksgiving Day. 
And yet, Postmodern Jukebox manages to make these 
songs not only listenable, but insanely enjoyable. 
The album, which is available for free streaming on 
scottbradlee.bandcamp.com, contains the smooth vocals 
of Drue Davis and imbues each of the songs with a sense 
of energy, emotion, and individuality; its now actually 
possible to differentiate between two Nickelback 
songs! The light, jaunty chords and rhythmic clapping 
in Photograph gives the song more of a carefree and 
happily nostalgic tone. Rockstar is cleaned up with 
a cool piano riff reminiscent of the blues. How You 
Remind Me is redone with a quicker pace and a toetapping beat that plucks the song out of the dreariness of 
its subject matter.
Other Motown-styled tributes featuring the soulful voice 
of Postmodern Jukebox friend Annie Goodchild are 
similarly enjoyable, such as Avril Lavignes Sk8er Boi, 
which is remixed with a funky beat and a brassy sound. 
Notable mention goes to songs that include tambourine 
guy Tim Kubart, whose spirited tambourining injects 
a shot of pure happiness in every video he appears in, 
such as the vibrant cover of Katy Perrys Roar.
On their webpage www.postmodernjukebox.com, 
Bradlee describes his project: My goal with Postmodern 
Jukebox is to get my audience to think of songs not as 
rigid, ephemeral objects, but like malleable globs of silly 
putty. Songs can be twisted, shaped, and altered without 
losing their identities  just as we grow, age, and expire 
without losing ours  and it is through this exploration 
that the gap between high and low art can be bridged 
most readily.
Some songs completely overshadow their modern 
counterparts. The production on each song is beautiful, 
and the musical arrangements incorporate a variety 
of instruments and styles. The channel also contains 
mashups by Bradlee, including one that mixes Queens 
Bohemian Rhapsody with George Gershwins 
Rhapsody in Blue, and other piano song covers that 
Bradlee has worked on. Postmodern Jukebox also 
features a variety of unique talented artists, including 
various singers, a Mariachi band, tap dancers, and even 
a beatboxing ?utist. 
The best part of the channel is the tangible passion 
behind the music; when you hear a song by Postmodern 
Jukebox, you know they are people that put love into 
their work. It is a great channel for anyone who has even 
the slightest interest in music, and will provide you with 
hours worth of entertainment.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Scott Bradlee makes Nickelback sound good
YouTube Channel reimagines modern pop songs with vintage ?air from many eras and genres
Andie Park | Staffwriter
If youre a bird, Im a bird. Who can forget 
the dreamy Ryan Gosling proclaiming 
his love for Rachel McAdams in this 
classic Nicholas Sparks tearjerker? This 
quintessential Valentines Day classic 
revolves around an older man named Duke 
as he visits an older woman in a nursing 
home and reads from a notebook the tale of 
country boy Noah Calhoun (Gosling), who 
falls in love with the beautiful heiress Allie 
Hamilton (McAdams). In the midst of World 
War II, their relationship falters, but, through 
a miraculous twist of fate, they get a 
chance to rekindle their love. Full of loveable 
quotes and some swoon-worthy scenes of 
Gosling being the ultimate dream boyfriend, 
The Notebook is the perfect movie to watch 
either with a loved one or with an equally 
loved box of chocolates. 
The Notebook
Friday, Feb. 14
7, 9:30, and 12
Don Jon
Saturday, Feb. 15
8, 10, and 12
Jon Martello (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is the 
stereotypical Italian-American man. He 
seems to be plucked from Jersey Shore 
and would be a GTL (gym, tan, laundry) 
kind of guy. He acquires the moniker Don 
Jon for his womanizing ways, but even his 
lothario persona doesnt match the intensity 
of his pornography addiction. When he 
meets old-fashioned gal Barbara Sugarman 
(Scarlett Johansson), he struggles to 
establish an intimate relationship that 
doesnt interfere with his Internet-addicted 
ways. In Joseph Gordon-Levitts directorial 
debut, there is a genuine sense of lovableness about a seemingly provocative topic. 
With fantastically funny performances, Don 
Jon is full of laughs and insight into the 
relationship between media, fantasy, and 
reality.
Amour
Sunday, Feb. 16
8
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
For those who would rather avoid the 
sappy Valentines Day couples who quote 
The Notebook in their Facebook statuses, 
Amour is a bleak, yet deeply profound story 
about an elderly couple and the power of 
their love as it is tested through the hardest 
of times. Georges (Jean-Louis Trintignant) 
and Anne (Emmanuelle Riva) are retired 
music teachers in their eighties living a quiet 
and peaceful life together. One day, Anne 
suddenly suffers a silent stroke and her 
health gradually declines. Georges lovingly 
tries to look after her but is constantly faced 
with the inevitability of heartbreak. A realist 
masterpiece, Amour perfectly captures the 
cycle of life and the unrelentingly dif?cult 
process of letting go. 

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 02.10.1498feature
pillbox 02.10.14
Jakeisrain and C Street Brass released their ?rst 
collaborative EP, Wop de Wop, this Saturday. Jake 
Berntsen, a sophomore music technology and philosophy 
double major, is the man behind Jakeisrain, while C 
Street Brass is a brass quintet ensemble in residence 
here at Carnegie Mellon. Originally the brainchild of 
trumpet player and second-year masters student Scott 
Nadelson, the quintet includes Nadelson, second-year 
trumpet performance graduate student Kyle Anderson, 
second-year trombone performance graduate student 
Gabriel Colby, second-year French horn performance 
graduate student Eric Damashek, and second-year bass 
trombone performance graduate student Hakeen Bilal on 
the bass trombone. 
They held a launch party at the South Side Chamber of 
Commerce on East Carson Street on Saturday night. The 
venue was a small and warm space with huge, colorful 
photographs spanning three of the walls and bright chalk 
drawings on the fourth wall behind the band. The air of 
intimacy was heightened by the assorted members of 
C Street Brass and Berntsen moving through the room 
before the show started, grinning and chatting with 
members of the crowd. The C Street Brass musicians 
radiated good humor and buoyancy as they wandered 
about. Were really excited to bring what we do to a 
wider audience, Anderson said at the launch party. 
Bilal added Were really excited to be getting a bunch 
of friends out of their environment, out of the box, doing 
something different. 
Different exactly describes the collaboration between 
C Street Brass and Jakeisrain. All of C Streets musicians 
are trained in a conservatory, while Berntsen is primarily 
an electronic musician, with some background in 
classical piano. Together, they make brass electronic 
music, which is a relatively new genre. In an interview 
before the release, Berntsen explained that because 
electronic brass is so unique, even covers of other songs 
require arranging by the group, and the band has to 
write most of its own music. 
The music at the launch party started off with only 
Bernsten as disc jockey. The crowd clustered close to 
the stage, some dancing, but mostly milling around. 
At around 9:30 p.m., Bilal got on a megaphone and 
announced the of?cial arrival of C Street Brass. 
From the minute the whole group was on stage together, 
CMU students release Wop de Wop, the debut EP of electronic brass collaborative project 
Jakeisrain and C Street Brass combine the electronic sounds of today with conservatory-trained musicianship to create a fresh sound
Comprised of Carnegie Mellon graduate students, C Street Brass lends a distinct flavor to Jakeisrains electronic beats. The combination creates a sound that is both 
incredibly modern while also rooted in more traditional music tastes. 
by Chloe Thompsom  | Staffwriter[]
the energy in the room came to a head. The mild feeling 
of restlessness vanished as Sky High by Big Gigantic, 
washed over the crowd. 
Before the concert, Colby said via phone, We were 
talking about doing something that had never really 
been done before. No ones doing it with as tight a setup 
as we would be. Im not saying were the best, but when 
you got ?ve people who have classically trained together 
for a long time, certain things become possible.
In this case, one of those certain things was the 
absolutely mind-blowing set that C Street Brass and 
Jakeisrain played. The quintet members seamlessly 
complemented each other, interweaving their own 
unique sound with the heavier electronic music to 
create a perfect blend of styles. The crowds dancing 
picked up almost immediately as the band played; the 
set combined high-energy, gorgeous brass sounds over a 
framework of low, rhythmic bass, which made for perfect 
dancing music. During the early songs, Nadelson took off 
with a phenomenal trumpet solo, his hands blurring over 
the valves of his instrument. Colbys trombone and Bilals 
bass trombone played off each other beautifully. 
All the musicians were true performers, ?ashing wide 
smiles into the crowd and dancing along with the music 
as they played. From the back of the stage, Berntsen 
threw himself wholeheartedly into dancing along, while 
the C Street Brass musicians actually danced with some 
of the audience members, as they were less than two 
feet  apart. About halfway through the set, Bilal handed 
his bass trombone off to a girl in the crowd, saying I 
dont want to hold it anymore, swigged at someone 
elses beer, then grabbed his instrument back in time to 
hit his note. 
The EP itself is a unique spread of music. According to 
Colby, the tracks all really represent different parts of 
electronic music right now.
Wop de Wop is really fun to play, he said. Move 
More is my personal favorite. All four tracks on the EP 
present a unique blend of brass and electronic. Move 
More falls more on the brassy side of that scale, with 
an anthem-like quality to it, and triphop kind of beat. 
Not a Normal Trombone is the heaviest-sounding 
track, with a dubstep feel. The notes fall heavily, with a 
trappy sort of sound. Cookies N Cream sounds more 
electronic, with a faster pace and higher energy. The 
faster electronic bits mix well with the brass, which slow 
the piece down a little. Wop de Wop blends brass and 
electronic the most effectively on this EP, as it plays a 
Big Sean sample over a deep bass drop. 
After they cycled through the four songs on the EP, 
the band switched to other original work, and some 
electronic-brass covers. One of the most notable 
covers was of the Beatles Because, which sounded 
simultaneously familiar and strange, as the brass played 
with the classic sound. During one of their four encore 
calls, they played an arrangement with elements of 
Muses Time is Running Out.
The EP was available for free in hard copy at the launch 
party, and is also available for free download on the 
Internet. I really like the idea of doing things for free. 
Its really important to me that people hear the music, 
Berntsen said.  Right now, theres no way you can 
actually sell music and expect to get a pro?t. There are 
so many platforms, its impossible to govern. So its more 
important, I think, to get it in as many peoples ears as 
possible, so then they pay for your live show. So thats 
kind of our philosophy for right now. Its gonna be a free 
show, were giving out free beer  we just want people 
to be there. Im really excited to get things going. 
Berntsen was not alone in his enthusiasm to get things 
going  all the band members expressed how happy 
they were to reveal their work. Were just pumped to 
show people what were doing, Colby said. 
The genuine enthusiasm that radiated off of all the band 
members during the show is one quality that makes 
this collaboration effort so unique. These musicians 
are all deeply talented, and are putting their varied 
skills together to create something unique, new, and 
incredible. And this EP is only the pairings ?rst release. 
Chloe Thompson | Junior Photographer
Jakeisrain and C Street Brass celebrated the release of their debut EP,  Wop de Wop, with a well-attended release party and performance at the South Side Chamber of 
Commerce last Saturday night. 
Chloe Thompson | Junior Photographer
Sophomore music technology and philosophy double 
major Jake Bernsten, also known as Jakeisrain, has 
released a wide variety of original material online in 
addition to Wop de Wop. 
Chloe Thompson | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra (PSO)performed 
The Planets  An HD Odyssey last weekend, which 
combined the wonders of the galaxy with high-resolution 
photos from space and the vivacity of a live orchestra 
into a prime example of the combination of science and 
arts that Carnegie Mellon prizes.
The Planets  An HD Odyssey consists of seven 
movements  one movement for each of the planets, 
excluding Earth. The title associated with each planet 
described the tone of the piece. For example, the ?rst 
movement, Mars, the Bringer of War, had a militaristic 
feel with war-like drum rolls and loud, thunderous swells. 
The music made NASAs high-de?nition photographs, 
which were projected over the stage, especially 
impressive and breathtaking. Conversely, Venus, the 
Bringer of Peace presented the audience with a more 
soothing, melli?uous melody to accompany the crystalclear photographs of the mostly white, gaseous planet.
Mercury, the Winged Messenger had a more ?ighty 
melody to accompany the science-?ction-like, vibrant 
photographs of the planet. Jupiter, the Bringer of Jollity 
impressive with its powerful and boisterous medly that 
accompanied images portraying the sheer enormity of 
the planet, especially in comparison to the moons that 
orbit it, as well as the powerful and boisterous melody 
that accompanied the images. Saturn, the Bringer of 
Old Age aroused chuckles from the audience for the 
name and had darker, foreboding tones.
Though it came at the tail end of the performance, 
Uranus, the Magician was bottom-to-none one of the 
most entertaining pieces. A true asset to the compilation 
of music and photographs, the melody was whimsical 
and entertaining. The magni?cent photos of the massive 
blue planet, both from the perspective of the sun and 
from the rear, were fundamentally awesome.
Neptune, the Mystic, the ?nal piece, was also the only 
piece accompanied by the women of the Mendelssohn 
Choir of Pittsburgh. The soft sound of the womens 
voices in conjunction with the tender vibrations of the 
violins, added to the mystical feeling already inspired by 
the photos of the planet.
The Planets, composed by Gustav Holst, originally 
premiered in London in 1918. As his ideas for the piece 
formulated, Holst said to a friend, As a rule, I only study 
things that suggest music to me. Then recently the 
character of each planet suggested lots to me, and I have 
been studying astrology fairly closely. 
Holst discouraged the connection between his pieces 
and their mythological namesakes. If any guide to the 
music is required, the subtitle to each piece will be 
found suf?cient, especially if it is used in a broad sense, 
Holst wrote for the 1918 performance.
Before the performance of The Planets  An HD Odyssey, 
conductor Manfred Honeck led the orchestra in a ?vepart piece entitled The Elements. According to the 
PSOs website, each movement was inspired by the 
citys environmental history and the natural elements of 
?re, earth, water, air, and metal. 
Elements was prefaced by a video of the composers 
explaining their pieces, which not only contextualized 
the feelings conveyed by the music and brought speci?c 
images of Pittsburgh to mind, but also gave a face to the 
often-mysterious minds behind the compositions.
Duquesne professor  Patrick Burke, who composed the 
?rst piece, Flourish, described his piece as blending 
the classical tradition, the visceral immediacy of rock, 
the social awareness of folk, and the meditative quality 
of gamelan music to form a cohesive, organic whole. 
The piece focused on the elements of water and earth 
and was named with con?dence that my home city will 
continue to thrive, adapting itself to changing economic, 
social, and cultural climate, Burke said. 
Burke and his wife were expecting their ?rst child during 
the premiere. This piece is my prayer for the babys safe 
arrival and a healthy, ful?lling childhood in Pittsburgh. 
The pieces, Awake, by Bomi Jang; Eliza Furnace, 
by Mathew Rosenblum; and Flood Lines, by Amy 
Williams, were meditations on the decline of Pittsburghs 
urban forests, the Eliza Furnace Historic Site in 
Vintondale, Pa., and Pittsburghs Great St. Patricks Day 
Flood in 1936, respectively. Each piece was moving on 
its own and full of zealous, loud melodies. As the music 
progresses, it focuses on building up an intense energy 
and gradually moves to the ?nale with various timbres 
of the instruments and lively rhythmic patterns in the 
chaotic texture, Jang said of Awake.
Reza Vali, who has been a composition professor at 
the School of Music at Carnegie Mellon since 1988, 
composed the last of the ?ve pieces, entitled Ravn, 
which is Persian for ?owing. According to Vali, 
Ravn is designed as a scherzo with a fast ?rst 
section alluding to the turbulent white waters of the 
Youghiogheny River, a calmer middle section, like a trio, 
and a recapitulation of the fast section.
For more information about Reza Vali and Ravn, see 
CMU professor blends musical cultures on page 4.
Jenna Bodnar | Assistant Pillbox Editor
10music
pillbox 02.10.14
PSO takes audiences on a stellar journey
The Planets    An HD Odyssey combines classical music pieces and images of the solar system 
The PSOs latest production, The Planets   An HD Odyssey, features classical music pieces inspired by the
planets of the solar system with accompanying images from NASA.
Courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.10.1411
mlandlor@andrew.cmu.edu
Blame the Weather by Maryyann Landlord
press@xkcd.com
Grownups by xkcd
xkcd.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 02.10.14
There Is No Winning In Pittsburgh by Nivetha Kanon
nkannan@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.10.1413
Solutions from Feb. 03
CrosswordChallenging Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: ToughSudoku Puzzle: Challenging
Sudoku courtesy of ww.krazydad.comMaze courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start in the middle of the maze and find your way out.

---------------------------------------------------

14comics
pillbox 02.10.14
 1. Take down ___
 2. Taylor of Mystic Pizza
 3. Rip
 4. On the loose
 5. Blue pigment
 6. ___-ski
 7. This ___ stickup!
 8. Actor Auberjonois
 9. Fleeing
10. Book of the Bible
11. Decree
12. Supple
13. Dutch painter Jan
21. Phobias
23. Not emp
25. Flexible
27. Sugar source
28. Cockney greeting
29. Grab, slangily
31. Periods
33. Wimp
35. Hotbed
36. Iowa State city
37. Au naturel
40. Estimator
41. Belgian painter James
44. Fragile
47. Unit of magnetic intensity
49. Bullfight cheer
50. Aztec god of rain
51. Trail of a wild animal
52. Teheran native
53. Hebrew prophet
55. Muscat native
57. Make weary
59. Difficult
60. Capital of Western Samoa
61. Fine and delicate
64. Impresario Hurok
 1. Neighbor of Sask
 5. Congo, formerly
10. Alice diner
14. Artist Mondrian
15. Church areas
16. Passage into a mine
17. Airline to Tel Aviv
18. Former French currency
19. Lo-cal
20. Long-necked ruminant
22. Otaligia
24. Actress Witherspoon
26. Comblike body structure
27. Penniless person
30. Scottish seaport
32. Oklahoma! aunt
33. Tip off
34. ___ uproar
38. Xanadu band
39. Wurst
42. Flightless bird
43. Grave
45. Fast fliers
46. Snooped (around)
48. Martinis partner
50. African fly
51. Figure of speech with like 
54. Hue
56. Expression of objection
58. Police officer
62. Kiln for drying hops
63. Agave fiber
65. Spanish appetizer
66. Like Nashs Iama
67. Maine college town
68. Slang expert Partridge
69. Ascend
70. Museum piece
71. WWII event
ACROSSDOWN
Heartoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Give a dozen pink roses. Pink roses represent beauty, 
grace, and delicacy.
taurus
april 20may 20
Visit a museum. Phipps Conservatory and the Carnegie 
Museum of Art are both free with a Carnegie Mellon ID.
gemini
may 21june 21
Go on a double date. Go to a high-class restaurant for a 
fun and romantic night.
cancer
june 22july 22
Take a glance at the late-night moon and stars. Make sure 
to wear something warm for this weather.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Prance through the snow! Take your special someone 
frolicking through the field. Might as well take advantage of 
this weather.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Play a special song for your significant other. Melt their 
heart with music and watch the snow fall outside.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Glide through the ice. Go for a day on the ice in Downtown 
Pittsburgh at the Cal U Ice Rink at PPG Place.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Make something original. The value of a gift is always about 
the personal connections with the receiver.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Finish a puzzle together. Work together to create something 
beautiful and fun.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Bake a cake! Have an exciting and experimental baking day 
together. Maybe invent a new cookie flavor.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Attend a concert. Find a band you both enjoy and dance to 
your hearts content.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Watch an old film at home. Movies bring laughter all around. 
Spice things up with hot chocolate.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.10.1415
TUESDAY 2.11.14
Spanky Wilson. Backstage Bar. 5 p.m. Free. 
Come to Backstage Bar for a free jazz performance.
Tans-Q Television. CFA 111. 4:30  p.m
The producers of the playful and provocative variety show 
will be screening highlights of the series. 
Mardi Gras with Wycliffe Gordon and Sean Jones. 
Cabaret at Theater Square. 8 p.m.
Get a head start on Mardi Gras with this energetic jazz 
performance.
WEDNESDAY 2.12.14
MOE. Stage AE. 8 p.m.  
The popular jam band will be grooving around at Stage 
AE. Expect the hippies to be out in full peaceful force.
Yuna. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
The Malaysian singer-songwriter will be bringing her 
brand of soft, acoustic rock to the Altar Bar. Perfect for 
anyone looking for a relaxing evening.
THURSDAY 2.13.14
Alvin Risk. Rex Theater. 9 p.m.
The popular house and trap producer will be bringing the 
party to the Rex. Put em up.
Swan Lake. Benedum Center. 7:30 p.m.
The classic ballet brought to you by the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theater. Playing through Sun. Feb 16.
Music for the Spirit 2014. East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church. 7 p.m. 
The PSO presents a special concert focusing on 
spiritually uplifting pieces. Tickets are free but limited in 
availability.
FRIDAY 2.14.14
3 Doors Down. Carnegie Music Hall. 8 p.m. 
Ill keep you by my side with my superhuman might, if you 
go see 3 Doors Down with me.
Bad Brains. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
These elderstatesmen of hardcore punk rock will be 
showing all the young guys how its done.
SATURDAY 2.15.14
Cults. Mr. Smalls Theater. 8 p.m.
The duo behind the 2011 hit Go Outside are back and 
touring behind their sophomore record.
Love is in the Air. Scottish Rite Cathedral. 8 p.m. 
The PSO plays all the romantic classics, including tunes 
from Phantom of the Opera and Star Wars.
Cabaret for a Cause. Cabaret at Theater Square. 
11 p.m. 
The cast of Mamma Mia will be performing a night 
of songs and comedy to bene?t the Trevor Project 
Organization.
ONGOING
2013 Carnegie International. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Mar. 16
The Carnegie International is the oldest North American 
exhibition of contemporary art from around the globe.
Arena: Remembering the Igloo. 707 Penn Gallery. 
Through Mar. 2
The exhibition presents a visual record of Pittsburghs 
Civic Arenas last months in operation and during its 
yearlong demolition process.
Neverlands. 709 Penn Gallery. Through Feb. 23
Inspired by Peter Pan and fears of death, this art 
collection is one of a kind.
Structures of Time and Space. Wood Street Galleries. 
Through Apr. 6
A collection of large scale light installations from artist 
Erwin Redl.
Company. OReilly Theater. Through Feb. 23
Company is a musical that revolves around Bobby  a 
single man unable to commit fully to a steady relationship, 
let alone marriage  and his friends who try to convince 
him otherwise.
Judge Jackie Justice. Cabaret at Theater Square.
This new musical comedy is based on courtroom 
television shows and features cases that deal with aliens, 
zombies, and more.
Quantum Theater presents Madagascar. 
The Carlyle. Through Feb. 16
Madagascar tells three separate stories of love and loss 
that unfold in the same hotel room across three different 
time periods.
OPENING
Mamma Mia. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
This popular music based pn the music of ABBA is sure 
to slap a smile on anyones face by the time Dancing 
Queen comes on.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.10.14
Sara Remi Fields | Assistant Photo Editor
Members of the ScotchnSoda crew construct the set for their 
upcoming show, The Last Days of Judas Iscariot. The show, directed 
by junior history and English major Razghiem Golden, will run from 
Feb. 1415 in Rangos 3.
judas iscariot.
