TARTAN
February 21, 1978 Volume 78, Number 20 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania!5213
New co-ed 
housing model 
proposed
A five-member subcommitte for the 
distribution of space to male and female 
students recently held three meetings to 
^ devise new housing models which would 
give women additional dorm space and 
more housing options. The subcommittee 
was coordinated by Residence Life Direc
tor Claudia Geraci, and consisted of 
dorm residents Sam Grego, Linda Deak, 
Susan Fudman and Len Tucci.
At the request of members of Auxil
iary Services, the subcommittee designed 
four alternative models for moving
* women to the hill. Only a modified 
model was agreed upon in a meeting 
with Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, and Gerry Dalton, Housing 
Director.
If the proposed model is passed, some 
residents will be displaced in Morewood 
A and B towers, Donner Hall, and Boss 
Hall. Under the proposal, new residence
5 areas for women would include IE, 2W, 
and 3E in Dormer Hall and Boss Hall. 
New areas for men would include 2A, 
4A, and 5B in Morewood Gardens, and 
2B and 3B in Morewood, which would 
be co-ed (men would live to the right 
of the elevator, and women would live to 
the left).
Russian Flu 
hits CMU
by Linda Aldridge
Accuse CMU of apathy if you will, but 
take note that, on a grand scale, the 
m university is participating in a countywide epidemic of what is guessed to be 
Russian Flu.
Dr. Bamonte of CMU Health Service 
estimates that since February 8, 150 stu
dents a day have been reporting to the 
health office with symptoms of the flu. As 
listed in a recent Student Affairs bulletin, 
these symptoms include, chills, fever, 
'headache, generalized muscle ache, cough, 
and chest discomfort. The flu usually 
lasts from 3 to 5 days. Antibiotics are 
ineffective in relieving symptoms; for a 
speedy recovery, the health service recom
mends that a sufferer drink 2 quarts of 
cold liquid a day, and rest in bed. Aspirin 
may afford some relief from headache and 
muscle pain.
For the most part, this rash of flu is 
afflicting people of age 25 or under. Dr. 
Bamonte speculates that older people 
arent being infected because there was an 
outbreak of a similar influenza virus 
around 1950. People who were exposed to 
the flu then are likely to be immune now.
How long will this bug from Oklahoma 
be with us? Dr. Bamonte feels that the 
'y number of infections will laper within 
the next few weeks. For those of you al
ready afflicted, take heart. Its doubtful 
that the university will close, but (as print
ed in the Student Affairs Bulletin of Feb. 
13), the Academic Deans have requested 
faculty members fo schedule make-up 
exams as needed whenever students have 
been unable to prepare for scheduled 
 examinations because of their illness.
Housing rates increase
The Housing Rates for 1978-79 are as
The future of Morewood elevators? Recommendations are being made for more co-ed housing*
The subcommittee felt that sucn a 
change in accomodations would increase 
security. Their proposal states that a 
greater mixture of male and female stu
dents in a living unit does influence a po
tential assailant away from the unit, 
The social mix is also desirable because, 
as the proposal pointed out, a definite 
amount of group learning and sharing 
occurs in the residential community. 
Students are given a better environment 
conducive to the development and im
provement of mature social and life skills. 
For students who would be displaced 
by this recommended model, the subcom
mittee suggested that they could draw 
in a separate room lottery before the 
rest of their respective classes.
The Auxiliary Services Committee - 
Dr. Van Horn, Bill Dillon, Earle Swank, 
Hugh D. Young, and SDC, UFO and 
Mudge Council representativeswill decide 
next week on the fate of the new housing 
model. If it is passed, the model will be 
in effect for Fall 1978 housing.
SDC President Sam Grego commented, 
Im sorry Im graduating this year. I 
wont get to live in the co-ed environment, 
but I hope it gets to be even more co-ecL.
follows:
BudgetStandardPrime
Quad$790$865$ 940
Triple8909651,040
Double9901,0651,140
Single1,1401,2151,290
This represents a $140 increase over 
present rates. All rates for Apartments 
and Houses will similarly increase $140 per 
resident per year. A brief list of the major 
cost factors which necessitate this increase 
includes: (1) $35 for centrex telephones; 
(2) $20 for university overhead, primarily 
for Security coverage; (3) $25 for in
creased utility costs including anticipated 
increases in the cost of gas and steam of 
20% and (4) $60 to reflect an overall 7% 
increase in personnel and supply costs.
A survey of the major institutions in 
Pittsburgh and comparable institutions in 
 the northeast suggests that our rates were
1 below average for 1976-77 and that next 
 years planned rate increases for most in
stitutions will be comparable to ours.
Dillon on housing 
page 7
These rates and the cost factors which 
necessitated them have been discussed ex
tensively with representatives of Student 
Senate, Student Dormitory Council and 
members of the Auxiliary Services Commit
tee. Recognizing the high costs which van
dalism, theft and other careless behavior 
have imposed upon dormitory operating 
budgets the university has agreed to de
velop a plan whereby residents can receive 
a cash refund of up to $75 per resident if 
a successful program can be developed to 
reduce these losses. Details of the plan 
for rebates which include student par
ticipation in its administration, will be 
announced before the end of the Spring 
semester.
Bill Dillon will be available at any time 
to discuss this matter or any other issue of 
concern.
inside
news...
How well-informed are CMU students? 
(Pg3)
Addition to GSIA coming soon (pg. 9)
entertainment...
A look at the new show at Scaife Galkery (pg. 15)
Richard Pryors new film reviewed 
(Pg. 15)
sports...
Hoopers knocked from first place 
(Pg24)
Volleyball club wins second straight 
tournament (pg. 24)
folio...
I W5c a teenage transfer student (pg. 13)
Health Office secretary Florence Rosenberg.
President Cyert 
answers 
. questions... 
page 5

---------------------------------------------------

page 2TARTANFebruary 21,1978
by Lennie Matjasko
Since the Music Education option was 
dropped from the curriculum of the Music 
Department so suddenly, many students 
have been concerned that all secondary 
teacher education programs at CarnegieMellon will eventually be phased out. The 
fact is that this is a very real possibility.
There are currently six departments 
which offer the teacher education option: 
Art, Physics, Math, English, Modern 
Languages, and Social Studies (History, 
Economics, Social Relations, etc.). Accord
ing to Dr. John Sandberg, Director of 
Teacher Education, Over the past five 
years, enrollment in these programs has 
declined terrifically. In 1972, there were 76 
new teachers. This year, there will be 19. 
So the basic question that affects all de
partments is: Does it make sense to con
tinue this option for such a small number 
of students?
Dr. Sandberg explained that on Novem
ber 1 there was a meeting with the Deans 
and department heads involved in the 
secondary teacher education option about 
whether or not to continue the programs. 
No decisions were reached at that meeting, 
but the people there decided to go back 
and talk with their college councils about 
the programs. Since then, the Math Depart
ment has decided to phase out their pro
gram over the next two years. The Physics 
Department averages one student per year 
in the education option, and, although 
they havent made a definite decision, will 
probably discontinue their program. Dr. 
Sandberg stated that the crucial area is 
within H&SS. Both the History and English 
Departments have expressed a desire to 
continue to offer the teacher education 
program, partly because of the potential 
importance that the program will have in 
attracting graduate students.
Professor Penna of the Education Cen
ter proposed that new programs in English 
and Social Studies be developed and then 
continued under the leadership of the 
Education Center. Dean Crecine has 
agreed that if, by May 15 of this semester, 
the English and History Departments can 
guarantee a minimum enrollment of 
twelve students who would pursue the 
option in the Fall of 1979, then the Edu
cation Center could go ahead and develop 
the new programs. If the enrollment of 
twelve cannot be projected, then that will, 
in fact, be the end of all secondary teacher 
education.
According to Dr. Sandberg, it boils 
down to whether or not enough students 
in English and History, both graduate and 
undergraduate, indicate that they intend 
to follow the option at this time or in the 
near future. Presently, there are eleven 
undergraduates in the junior class who will 
be practice teaching next fall, and seven 
who will be practice teaching in the Fall of 
1979.
HOW HIGH IS YOUR
(Economics 
Quotient)
Dr. John Sandberg, Director of Teacher Education, explained that unless enrollment goes up, the secondaiyteachei^ducatioi^roiM^n^Tia^b^ropp^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Spring Carnival plans taking shape
by L. Aldridge
You can feel it already; it's barely mid
semester, but Spring Carnival is on every
one's mind. This year's carnival, planned 
for April 13, 14, and 15, promises to be 
better than ever. The theme is Mythology 
and Legend, and the midway is to be chris
tened "Verities and Balderdash."
Carnival '78 will be larger than was last 
year's festival. According to Charlene Reese, 
this year's carnival director, "it (the carni
val) has reached the largest size it can for a 
while--there shouldn't be any empty spaces 
this year." An additional five booths will 
line the midway, and Food Service plans to 
set up a cafe between the back of the stad
ium stands and the concrete wall surround
ing them. The Arts and Crafts Fair will be 
held inside Skibo rooms 11 and 12, so that 
the many crafts -men and -women need not 
worry about the weather. (If you need in
formation about the fair, contact Kate 
Bertrand or Alice Thiel).
The Student Dormitory Council tent will 
stand in Skibo's metered lot, and house the
usual SDC-sponsored events: a semi-formal 
or formal dance, gong show, picnic, and 
square dance. Also, at different times 
throughout the carnival, coffeehouse enter
tainers will perform in the tent.
The usual gamut of game-events will be 
held outside: kite-flying, gazzorching, tugo'-war, plank jousting, relays, frisbee, and 
possibly a weight-lifting competition (con
tact Julian Singer if you're interested in the 
latter). If the I.M. field is resodded or seed
ed, the events may take place on the cut, 
or in some other open area. And the bug
gies? Until recently it was feared that, be
cause of the flower show, buggy races would 
be postponed. But now it is rumored that 
the show is cancelled, and the buggies will 
probably race in the morning as usual.
Ms. Reese is pleased with the carnival's 
progress; "things seem to be falling into 
place," she said. The only remaining hitch 
is that more electricians are needed to help 
put the whole carnival together. If you have 
electrical skills and would like to contribute 
some time, contact Tom Starr soon.
Write for a free booklet. 
Economics.
Pueblo. Colorado 81009.Charlene Reese, chairperson of Spring Carnival, says "Things seem to be falling into place.'
by Stephanie Waite
Distribution of students by sex in the 
dormitories, room prices, and new officer 
elections were among the topics discussed 
at the last SDC meeting, held on February 
12.
SDC president Sam Grego, along with 
several SDC reps, have been meeting with 
Bill Dillon in an Auxiliary Services Sub
committee on Distribution of Students by 
Sex in the Dormitories. The Subcom
mittee has made the observation that 
there are too many guys on the Hill, and 
too many girls in Morewood. Keeping this 
in mind, the Subcommittee has made pre
liminary recommendations as follows: In 
A-tower of Morewood, every other floor 
will be male. In B-tower, the first two 
floors will be experimental, with half of 
these floors between male and female. Ctower will be all female except for the bot
tom two floors. Eotower Morewood and 
g Mudge will remain the same. Bwing of
1 Schlag will'be made female. Boss and Mc2 Gill will house both male and female res-ooidents. Donner Hall will be much the 
same as it is now, except 2nd floor will be 
experimental, with males and females 
being housed on the same hall. There will 
be increased security on the Hill due to the 
influx of female residents. These recom
mendations are not final. (See article on 
page one.)
Another Auxiliary Services Subcom
mittee has been meeting recently, to dis
cuss the issue of room prices. Next year, 
prices will be going up anywhere from 
$125 to $140. $37 of this can be attrib" 
uted to Centrex. Bill Dillon has made a 
suggestion which might help to curb van
dalism, and also give students a financial 
break. Dillon has suggested that $100,000 
be set aside to pay for damages due to van
dalism. At the end of the year, whatever is 
left in this fund would be given back to 
students as a rebate. It is possible that 
students could get up to $50 back (as
suming there is no vandalism). Dillon 
hopes that the money motivation will in
duce people seeing incidents of vandalism 
to report these incidents.
The aforementioned proposals are not 
finalized, and student input would be 
helpful. Any student with thoughts on 
these topics should contact his/her SDC 
representative.
Finally, nominations for next years of
ficers were made. Bill Reiner and Jef Poskanzer, both of the Hill, were nominated 
for treasurer. Mindie Snyder of More
wood was nominated for Secretary, Car
olyn Welty, current Vice President for 
Morewood, was re-nominated for her pos
ition. Abby Selman, a Donner resident, 
was nominated for Vice President of the 
Hill. In the presidential race, both cur
rent vice presidents, Rudy Rutherford and 
Carolyn Welty, were nominated. There 
will be more nominations at the next meet
ing, and elections will also be held then.
Cyert 
answers questions Pg* 5
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
The SDC space
Secondary Ed. in 
danger of phase-out

---------------------------------------------------

February 21,1978TARTANpage 3
Senate murmurs Libyans adjust to CMU life
by Linda Deak
With tb' ('.rum wiih President Cyert 
lasting over two hours, seatsore senators 
terminated Senates business meeting by 
sending the majority of motions to com 
mittee.
However, one motion managed to es
cape the claws of impatient senators - the 
$900 requested by Spring Carnival Com
mittee for the tent rental fee. Senate 
voted to insert the funds into Spring Car 
nivals budget, with SDC picking up the 
remaining tab.
In his report to Senate, Dean Swank 
commented on increasing numbers of flu 
cases being reported to the health office. 
He has circulated a memo to all deans, re
questing that they ask faculty to assign 
make-up work for those who miss classes 
because of the flu. He claimed that the 
University did not intend to cancel classes 
because having everyone in the dorms 
would increase the risk of contagion.
John Lubon surprised Senate when he 
reported on the activities of Senates Ex
ternal Housing committee. According to 
Lubon, entering freshmen Fine Arts majors 
could receive a letter this summer in
forming them that they may look for offcnmnus housing. This exception was made 
after housing noticed that the majority of 
students who moved off campus before 
their housing contracts expired were Fine 
Arts majors who did so because of lack of 
space. Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, stressed that this proposal is in 
the exploration stage.
Ihe Academic Affairs committee is in~ 
vestigating the possibility of gaining Uni
versity funding for A Phi Os teacher eval
uation project. The activity is presently 
supported by the Student Activities Fee.
The Forbes Street Gallery had its status 
changed from a supported to a service or
ganization. This switch gives them the un
restricted ngiu to solicit lunds.
Rules chairperson, Carl Fetteroll, 
motioned to recognize the Kiltie Band as 
a supported organization. Senate reduced 
that to a non-supported status, for it was 
felt that the band could possibly receive 
outside funding.
Chairperson David Roussos reminded 
that petitions are due February 23. Seats 
are open in H&SS, CIT.and CFA,and pet
itions must be returned to either the In
formation Desk or to Carl Fetteroll by 
February 23 in order to have a name ap
pear on the ballot. Senate will meet to
night at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room,
by L. Aldridge
On February 16th, eight students from 
the African nation of Libya arrived at Carnegie-Mellon University. At that time, four 
more Libyan students were scheduled to 
arrive during the weekend of the 18th. The 
twelve are here to study the English lan
guage intensively for two terms. After com
pleting the English program, they will all 
apply to CMU for admission as freshmen 
into the Department of Metallurgy. No ad
mission is guaranteed, but should they be 
accepted, they will graduate from CMU 
and return to Libya to work for the Libyan 
Iron and Steel Corporation, which is spon
soring their education here in the United 
States.
The students, all of whom are males from 
eighteen to twenty years of age, have a busy 
schedule ahead of them. Over the 18th and 
19th of February, they will meet their stu
dent hosts and roommates, and get prac
tical, everyday matters, such as food con
tracts and bank accounts, out of the way. 
On the 20th and 21st, they will undergo 
formal orientation and intensive testing to 
determine their proficiency in math and in 
English as a second language. On the 22nd 
their courses will begin. For six hours each 
day, they will be taught English pronuncia
tion, composition, grammar, reading, and 
study skills. The only different day is Wed
nesday, when they will study mathematics 
for three hours. All of their courses will be 
administered through the Translation Cen
ter.
Each Libyan student has as a host an 
American student, who may or may not be 
the Libyan's roommate. The hosts were pre
pared for their roles by an orientation pre
sentation which was held February 12th. 
Through the use of slides, films, and discus
sions, the hosts were educated as to the
cultural and social differences they might 
encounter in their Libyan guests. It is hoped 
that the hosts will function to help the 
Libyan students in most non-academic 
matters.
As of the 17th, "according to Doug 
Coutts (assistant director of the Transla
tion Center), the Libyans were adjusting 
well to their change in environment. A few 
courageous souls had already hopped a bus 
and gone downtown to explore, while 
others slept away the effects of jet lag. All 
of the students have had five or six years of 
English in Libya; even so, because they are 
used to British accents and because we speak 
so quickly, it is difficult for them to under
stand Americans. "1 encourage American 
students to seek out the Libyans and make 
them feel welcome," says Doug Coutts. 
"Point out that this is jello and that is 
steak."
CMU students 
quizzed 
on current events
by N. Sussman
Recently I conducted a mini currentevents survey designed to see how well 
informed CMU students were. However, 
knowing that it would take longer than just 
a week to ask each and every student how 
well informed they were, I decided (for 
curiositys sake) to take a very small sam
pling of the student body and ask them six 
questions pertaining to local, national, 
and international government. The results 
were interesting but not necessarily in
dicative of the campus as a whole.
Who are you. telline us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you II find 
at Scott Paper
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us and we'll prove it
Contact your 
placement office for informationSCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
1 asked thirty people the following 
questions: Who is attorney General of the 
United States? Who are the two Pennsyl
vania State senators? Is there presently 
an Arab oil embargo? Who is the head of 
the CIA? Who is Dan Marston? Who has 
jurisdiction (presently) over the Panama
Canal? I asked these questions of students 
from different majors; music, art, engi
neering, English. The combined statistics 
were as revealing as the students personal 
comments.
The results were categorized under in
formed, uninformed, and partially 
informed. The first question elicited a 
split response. 50% knew who the Attor
ney General was, 50% didnt. I figured that 
this would be a good question to ask since 
his appointment was fairly controversial 
and well publicized. At best it was hit or 
misseither you knew or you didnt.
The second question was far more 
revealing. 33% identified both senators 
correctly. 40% did not know either, 27% 
knew one or the other but not both. 
Granted, a good deal of the campus is 
made up of out-of-state students, however, 
this should not be the only basis on which 
to interpret the results. I might add here 
that a few of these students who were 
Pennsylvania residents confessed to not 
knowing their senators, while a few from 
out of state could identify them.
The third question ( to my expectation) 
70% answered correctly. 30% just didnt 
know or were unsure. The fourth question 
concerning the CIA was a different matter 
altogether. Only 10% knew the right an
swer, 70% had no idea, and 20% knew 
something about his appointment or had 
read about him in Newsweek, but could 
not recall his name. When I came to ask 
this question, one person remarked that he 
hoped the CIA wouldnt come after him 
for answering incorrectly. Another had me 
assure him 1 wouldnt write his name down 
on my clandestine clip-board.
When I asked the tilth question (who is 
Mr. Marston), the figures came out to 37% 
informed, 46% uninformed and 17% par
tially informed (meaning they had read 
about him or knew where he was from).
I thoughtv since his name had been in the 
papers and news media so much, that this 
question would be an easy one for people 
at all in tune with the news. Some people 
tried to cover for their lack of news know
ledge by naming Marston as Attorney 
General of the United States, or us a 
Watergate prosecutor, saying, Thats an 
easy one, anyone would know who he is.
The sixth and final question was the one
about which most people were informed.
80% were informed as to who controlled the canal and 20% were uninformed.
All through the survey, I longed for a 
movie camera with which to record all the 
chin-scratching, hem-hawing, blushing, apa
thetic, and confident people who tried 
their best to answer correctly. Most of the 
thirty people I surveyed were embarrassed 
about their lack of political knowledge. 
(And I must add that I. too. did not know 
all of the right answers.) All were happy to
cooperate until I toid them uliat kind ot 
a survey it was. Current events? Forget 
it. Im terrible at stuff like that.
It is impossible to make any absolute 
judgement as to how well informed this 
campus is from the thirty people I sur
veyed. However, I get the sense that not 
many of the results would differ had the 
entire school been quizzed. And. if you are 
wondering why I haven't told you the 
appropriate answers, it's to give you the 
chance to test yourself. Good Luck. 
????????????
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
Carnegie -Mellon University
during the summer, 1978, will hold two 
six week sessions as follows:
1st SIX WEEK SESSION 
May 16  June 23
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX WEEK SESSION 
June 26  August 4
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION:
$30/unit**  All undergraduates
GRADUATE TUITION:
$39/unit**  College of Fine Arts/Humanities 
and Social Sciences 
$45/unit**  Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology/Mellon Institute of Science
**3 units -1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be offered. 
The actual list of courses including class 
schedules will be announced and published 
depending upon student response.
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone (412) 578-2085
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name ______________________________________________
Mailing Address_______________________________________
Present School ___________________________________
I am interested in the following course(s)
Course Number Title Session
Please return this form to
Director. Summer Studies 
Admissions Office 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS 
(1) - First Session: May 16 - June 23; (2) - Second Session: June 26 - August 4
* - Graduate Course Number
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 Units(1)
09-117Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)
09-218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Civil12 205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
Engineering:12-211Solid Mechanics I ^9 units(1)
12-215Materials12 units(1)
Computer15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) and (2)
Science:15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTRAN)9 units(Hand (2)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus I11 units(1)
21-121Calculus I (self-paced)11 units(1) and (2)
21-122Calculus II (regular or self-paced)11 units(1) and (2)
21-123Calculus III (regular or self-paced)11 units(1) and (2)
21-261Ordinary Differential Equations (self-paced only)4.5 units(1) and (2)
21 262Partial Differential Equations (self-paced only)4.5 units(Hand (2)
21-263Vector Analysis (self-paced only)4.5 units(1) and (2)
21 265Linear Programming (self-paced only)4.5 units(1) and (2)
21-267Graph Theory (self-paced only)9 units(1)and (2)
Mechanical24-112Fluid Mechanics 19 units(1)
Engineering:24-121Thermodynamics 19 units(1)
24-141Statics and Dynamics9 units(1)
24-291Engineering Economy9 units(1)
Nuc. Sci. & Eng.:25-301Introduction to Nuclear Power9 units(1)
Metallurgy and27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1)and (2)
Materials Sci.:27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(Hand (2)
27-350Seminar9 units(Hand (2)
27-755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units(1) and (2)
27-775Thesisvar. units(Hand (2)
39-227Analysis. Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1)and (2)
Physics:33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(1)and (2)
33-122 *Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (self-paced)10 units(1)and (2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (self-paced)10 units(Hand (2)
33-129Electronics 110 units(1)
Statistics:36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer Applications9 units(Hand (2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics 19 units(1)and (2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units(Hand (2)
36-215Probability and Statistics 19 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis 19 units(1)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(2)
Design:51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(2)
Music:57-867*
57-873*
Administration and Supervision in Music Education (6/26-7/14) 
Principles of Music Education (7/17-8/14)
6 units 
6 units
57-875*
57-880
57-881
Contemporary Problems in Music Education 
Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop I (June 26-30) 
Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop II (June 26-July 14)
6 units 
3 units 
9 units
(2)
Art:60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)
60-226.726*Painting9 units(2)
60-229,729*Color9 units(2)
60-231,731*Screen Printing9 units(2)
60-233.733*Relief9 units(2)
60-235,735*Lithography9 units(2)
60-237,737*Intaglio -9 units(2)
60-251,751*Ceramics9 units(2)
60 254,754*Metalcrafts9 units(2)
60 261,761*Sculpture9 units(2)
60-345,745*
60-366.766*
60-369.769*
Glassworking
Paper/Dyeing Workshop (June 26-30) 
Tapestry Workshop (July 10-28)
9 units 
3 units 
9 units
(2)
60 380.780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
Administration & 70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units(1) and (2)
Management Sci. 70-121Accounting 19 units(1) and (2)
70-141Mathematics for Management Science 19 units(1)
70-311Organizational Behavior 19 units(1)
70-361Foundations of Law9 units(2)
70-371Production 19 units(2)
Economics:73-100Economic Analysis and Contemporary Problems 19 units(11
73-200Economic Growth and Fluctuations9 units(1)
73-250Resource Allocation in a Market Economy9 units(1)
73-459Benefit Cost Analysis9 units(1)
English:76-100Freshman Writing9 units(2)
76-426
76-960*
Modern Drama
Workshop in Advanced Placement English (June 26-July 21)
9 units 
12 units
(2)
History and79 101Shaping of Western Civilization I9 units(2)
Philosophy:79-102Shaping of Western Civilization II9 units(1)
79 104The Emergence of the Urban World9 units(1)
79-291Twentieth Century America9 units(1)and (2)
79-497Sex and Death6 units(1)
79-657Aesthetics9 units(1)and (2)
79 703*Peacemaking in History12 units(2)
79 856*The Teaching of History12 units(2)
79 879*Internship in Curriculum Development12 units(2)
79 890*Perspectives in Urban History12 units(2)
Modern82 101Elementary French (intensive)12 units(1)
Languages and82 107French (self-paced)var. units(1)
Literature:82 121Elementary German (intensive)12 units(1)
82 122Elementary German (intensive)12 units(2)
82 141Elementary Spanish (Intansive)12 units(1)
Psychology:85 101General Psychology
Other Psychology courses to be announced
9 units(2)

---------------------------------------------------

February 21,1978-TARTANpage 5
Students bring their gripes to the top
by Linda Deak
The Wherrett Room usually has a handful of students in the audience when Senate conducts its Tuesday night meeting. Last  tm1 mk 
week there wasnt a seat to be had. Students crowded in to hear President Cyert respond to criticisms about the educational 
facilities, the dorms, the social life, and even CMUs top administrator.
The president stood for over two hours at the lectern, taking all questions from the floor. Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary 
Services, and Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, also attended the meeting to clarify any issues and to provide answers for 
students.
Before the barrage of questioning began, President Cyert opened with a State of the University Address at Student Sen' ates request. Cyert stressed that, as an administrator, he was concerned about improving the quality of services and func
tions of Camegie-Mellon. He then commented on the progress of the current fund drive, touching on the additional scholar
ships and professorships it will eventually provide.
He also claimed, there is an increased emphasis on education, especially teaching quality . . . in addition to a strategic 
plan for departments.  There is also a $15 million renovation planned for campus facilities, with priority areas being the 
Fine Arts building and the engineering labs
Cyert claimed, that when he entered the presidency, his aim was to get the University on a more stable financial basis, and 
the University has been in the black since then.  Cyert wanted to get to as many questions as possible,  and questioning 
appropriately began with Housing:
ft ................................................................................................................... ................................................................................................................................................. "Sorry about that, but I'm not off shooting craps somewhere."
Q: What will be done about increasing Dillon: If the housing reservation fee is AMS students are planning to transfer.
security for dorms?
Cyert: Im in favor of locking doors, and 
Id be very pleased if we could get the 
backing of students on this. Weve had 
consultants in and we have increased 
lighting in areas which they suggested. 
A 106 security patrol has been put into
* effect on the Hill. There are also many 
plans to rebuild the vestibule in More
wood, giving keys to residents and install
ing a front door centrex phone.
Q: Why is there such a bad attitude from 
Housing towards students?
Cyert: There is a very tough situation in 
housing. The university could take the 
position that it would only house so many
* students, keep the quality up and elim
inate crowding. But, it could also take the 
position of accomodating more people 
at cheaper prices. More people can then be 
on campus. In the past few years, a much 
larger number of people have opted for oncampus housing, causing the overcrowding. 
Q: I live in Scobell Hall and we had been 
promised a renovated lounge, but we have
* a single chair sitting in the middle of a 
room.
Dillon: We admit that many lounges have 
been inadequately furnished, and right now 
two architectural firms are working on 
furniture which would not be able to be 
carried off. If we put a couch in your 
lounge, it would not be there the next 
day.
j Q: I think the housing contract is unfair, 
the students should have more rights, 
examples being that Housing has absolute 
right to change accomodations for any 
student, and they also make roommates 
pick up the tab if another roommate moves 
out and changes the status of the room. 
Also, students are required to pay for the 
full year if they want to move out after a
T) semester.
Dillon: We try to appease the students
who do not want to pay the additional 
rate-we combine them into compar
able to their original contract. This may 
seem a threatening and unreasonable thing 
for a university to do, but it is a way to 
allocate space.
Cyert: Whats so unfair about it? Thats
t the way the real world is. The attempt is 
for housing to pay for itself. I dont like 
the idea of students having to pay an 
extra semesters fee for moving off-campus, 
but I dont like the idea of making dorm 
residents pay more for those moving 
out. The student who has moved out has 
denied the right for housing to someone 
who would have stayed all year. Pos^ sibilities for changing the present policy 
include making the student who stays in 
the room pay S40 to $50 more, and, 
reducing the penalty for breaking the 
housing contract.
Q: I think the SI00 deposit is too much 
and the payment date comes too soon in 
the semester students really dont have a 
chance to look for off-campus housing.
too inexpensive or even nothing, students 
will game us. The $100 is the best way of 
getting a commitment. If we didnt get 
full occupancy, students would have to 
pay up to $75 or $100 more anyway. 
Q: Im a dorm resident in 3-E who chose 
not to get Centrex and use the pay phones 
instead. They were removed without no
tice. I hear that the housing office is going 
to replace them on the fourth and seventh 
floors, but the residents of other floors will 
never get messages.
Cyert: The reason the phones were re
moved was to get costs and benefits 
together. The phones cost $ 1300/month 
and the university has to pay the balance 
on them. Were trying to work something 
out with Bell.
Q: The health care at CMU is not ad
equate. There is no facility for patients 
who need overnight care. They might not 
require hospitalization, and students have 
to foot the bill if they need to be mon
itored.
Cyert: We used to have three nurses on
duty operating an infirmary, but this was 
not something to have on a continuing 
basis. This outbreak of flu is the closest 
thing that weve had to an epidemic, and 
the crowding in the health center is rel
atively rare.
Swank: Also, having a nurse on duty at
all times would not solve any problem, 
as non-MD people would be making 
medical-type decisions.
The topic of discussion then turned to 
AMS.
Q: Why doesnt AMS have any faculty?
Im in AMS and am being taught by grads.
Cyert: We are on the way to solving the 
problem. Most problems lie in the fact 
that when GSIA was added to the Univ
ersity, its charter prohibited undergrad
uates to belong to the college. AMS hap
pened to be here first, however. We want 
to have a larger student body for AMS... 
Q: Maybe the school should have its own 
dean.
Cyert: That wouldnt solve anything
because even top people want to use 
grad students. I think the most probable 
solution is that GSIA will handle teaching 
for the junior and senior years of the AMS 
major. The first two years will be spent 
on getting a more liberal education.
Q: Im in AMS and dont feel that Im
getting my moneys worth. Engineering 
has its own faculty and equipment. AMS 
has very little of either.
Cyert: I think the test of whether you are 
getting your moneys worth is not the 
salary of your professor, but the results 
upon graduation. I doubt if very many 
AMS grads say they did not get their 
moneys worth.
Q: How soon will these changes in AMS be 
coming? Im a freshman in AMS and am 
not too pleased-a surprising number of
Cyert: I wish you all luck... Have you
asked your dean about the AMS pro
gram; including the role of teachers and 
undergrad? I think you would appreciate 
the program much more if you investigate 
it.
Next was the topic of language problems 
among faculty members.
Q: The Universitys qualifications for
tenure do not mention the ability to 
communicate in the English language.
Cyert: I think it is inherent in a persons 
ability to teach. I think most of the prob
lem with foreign language difficulties has 
been with grad students, anyway. 
Q: I dont think the problem lies in
tenure faculty, but especially in the grad 
students in econ. . .
Cyert: Grad students who do not have
command of the English language are 
not allowed to teach and should not 
be...those of you who are chuckling, 
have any of you complained to your 
dean? I personally had several people 
removed last year upon complaints of 
students. I would like the list of faculty 
members whom students are having prob
lems understanding. No university in any 
country can guarantee that every instruc
tor is a good teacher.
Q: Grad students teaching recitations
for lecture courses havent attended 
lectures and dont know what exactly is 
being taught. I went to the professor 
and he said that grad students have to be 
paid to attend class.
Cyert: Thats ridiculous. Why didnt you 
go to your dean or send me a letter? 
Q: Should it be the responsibility of stu
dents to make sure they are getting a 
quality education?
Cyert: It has to be. We do not have a
policy of invading a classroom. Thats 
why I meet with students and why SACs 
are important. No prof can go into an
others class without being invited; there
fore, it is important for students to speak 
up. Department heads should police 
teaching, especially in Econ and AMS.
A few questions on athletic clubs were 
asked before the discussion was opened 
to general questions.
Q: Are there any plans for the University 
to pick up hockey or baseball?
Cyert: The Athletic Board has to rec
ommend that. 1 doubt it, unless some 
current athletics are dropped. I personally 
dont think we should expand the athletic 
program.
Q: Do you have a certain way of eval
uating teams? How would you drop an 
athletic team?
Cyert: I would leave that up to the ath
letic director, for he is also responsible for 
constructing budget. We dropped wrest
ling, for example, which was a wise de
cision. We have a good program now.
Q: This question is in regard to budget
allocation. Some services on campus are 
duplicated, such as food service units. The 
priorities on campus are that of fast food, 
but there should be an informal meeting 
place for students without a cafeteria-type 
atmosphere.
Dillon: We have tried to respond to stu
dents suggestions, Weve implemented the 
Deli and the Vegetarian Room in More
wood. . .
Cyert: I realize that there are not perfect 
social situations on campus. We cant have 
a place where we sell beer, and what you 
are describing sounds like a restaurant.
Q: Im wondering about the quality of
education and the quality of service. 
Im a sophomore architect and the Arch
itecture department has been without a 
head and without facilities, and the ex
isting ones are extremely overcrowded. 
Id like to know what improvements can 
be made by the time I graduate, so I can 
get a quality education?
Cyert: We have been working on getting 
a department head, but were not going to 
settle until we get an outstanding person.
I dont agree that youre not getting a 
quality education in architecture. Ap
proximately $750,000 was just spent on 
facilities. There are undoubtedly a number 
of things wrong, but the deans are com
piling lists from their departments on what 
is needed. . .
Q: Is CMU doing any research for the
CIA?
Cyert: No, I dont think we have ever 
done it.
Q: A well-read college guide claims that
the library facilities are woefully inade
quate. I agree-is anything being done 
about it?
Cyert: Money has already been allocated to 
upgrade the libraries.
Q: What is an educated person?
Cyert: I guess the definition has to be in 
terms of process verses knowledge. You 
have to worry about helping the student 
learn how to learn, how to solve problems. 
Q: You keep stressing to contact you, but 
Ive been trying to get in to talk to you all 
week. . .
Cyert: Im sorry about that, but Im not 
off shooting craps somewhere. I am busy 
teaching and recruiting. I plan to start a 
system of office hours, say three to five 
every other week. The first hour will be 
for appointments, and the second will be 
kept open. My extension is listed in the 
directory under C-y-e-r-t.
Cyert did mention to Senate that he 
would like to hold the valuable feedback  
discussions on a regular basis and looked 
forward to his next appearance. Judging 
from the size of the crowd, the students 
will look forward to bringing their feed
back  to their president, also.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
President Cyert 
cares for you
at CMU
President Cyert, a genuinely nice man who wears faded 
blue jeans on Saturdays, sometimes doesnt come across 
too well when talking with students.
Take last week's Student Senate meeting, at which the 
President fielded questions from students. He walked in 
25 minutes late and offered no apology or explanation, 
indicating total disregard for students and their time. He 
sat down first at the U-shaped tables with Dean Swank, 
Bill Dillon, and the senators; but when the questions began 
he moved to stand at the lectern off to the side of the 
Wherrett Room. Those who dont know any better might 
think the President to be an aloof, standoffish person.
As the questions and complaints rolled in, the President's 
answers became cutting and snide (which cant be seen 
by reading the article on page 5 in this issueyou had to 
be there). He really lost his temper with the curly-haired 
student in the blue shirt, who said a professor told him 
there wasnt enough money to pay grad students to attend 
the lectures for which they conducted recitations. Instead 
of addressing himself to the problem, Cyert evaded the 
issue by soundly chastizing the student for not taking his 
complaint up through the proper channels. During the 
reprimand, the student sat mute in his chair.
The President did not laugh along with the others after 
he cracked, Grad students who do not have command 
of the English language are not allowed to teach and should 
not be.
Immediately after he chided one student (who said he 
felt he wasnt getting his moneys worth at CMU) for being 
so cost conscious, Cyert said, 1 would say you should trans
fer if you feel youre not getting your moneys worth. 
(Not quite what youd expect to hear from a top adminis
trator.)
An Architecture student gave a moving description of 
poor facilities and concluded, "Theres a high degree of 
apathy over there. Weve been beating our heads against 
the wall. . . nothings happening.  Cyert shot back testily, 
What do you mean, nothings happening? / dont know 
what you mean, 'nothing's happening.'  Clearly, the 
President was not moved.
But he assured the audience at the end of the meeting 
that he really does care. And he probably does, though 
he sure had some funny ways of showing it at the Senate 
meeting. If he didnt care, though, he wouldnt have even 
bothered showing up, and he wouldn't bother to hold 
open office hours for students; and he wouldnt hold 
Presidents SA C meetings.
Besides, he wears faded blue jeans on SaturdaysPresi
dent Cyert cant be all bad.
Backpatting
New Yorkers are always being applauded (by other New 
Yorkers) for their hardiness and vigor. They suffer every
thing in New York-blackouts, muggings, increasing taxesand still they persevere. Well, the truth is that New Yorkers 
are not persevering ail that well. The ones that remain 
standing upright do so only because they are too exhausted 
even to fall into a dead heap. PittsburghersCM U students 
especially-are really the ones to be applauded.
A long cold winter, Russian flu, boiler blow-ups, false 
alarms, rape', housing increases, tuition increases, no heat, 
no hot water ... all this, and CMU students continue 
going to classes. Most of them, anyway.
And people say that New Yorkers are crazy . . .
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-Chief
Letters
AMS Article Comment
Editor:
After reading and re-reading 
John Tumazos' article concerning 
AMS, I have come to the conclu
sion that the primary purpose of 
the printing of this article was to 
increase the influx of letters to the 
Editor. Why else would this paper 
devote so much space to a grossly 
exaggerated and biased piece of 
trash? The title of the article mis
led readers to believe that the 
strengths of AMS would be men
tioned. Did Mr. Tumazos simply 
forget to write this half of the 
article, or did the TARTAN run 
out of space? I'd like to take this 
opportunity to mention a few.
Mr. Tumazos seems to believe 
that AMS' one and only asset is 
Prof. Kerr, a "remarkable man." 
And why is Mr. Kerr so deserving 
of the only positive adjective used 
in the article? Because of his vast 
array of activities. Only a person 
possessing Superman qualities has 
the ability to teach graduates and 
undergraduates, maintain a law
practice, participate in numerous 
activities within the community, 
etc.,etc.tc. In the next paragraph, 
however, Mr. Tumazos labels grad
uate students "inherently inferior 
instructors" for similar reasons: 
they teach classes, work on re
search, and write theses. Why, Mr. 
Tumazos, are graduate students' 
activities considered a hinderance 
to their teaching ability, while Mr. 
Kerr's are an asset?
Mr. Tumazos continued to iden
tify three day-to-day problems 
plaguing the AMS department, 
mostly pertaining to course coor
dination. These too, are attributed 
to the "inherently inferior" grad 
instructors. Is it possible that the 
remarkable Mr. Kerr could be par
tially to blame for these problems? 
Perhaps if he forfeited a few of his 
extracurricular activities, he would 
have time to provide grad instruc
tors with guidance pertaining to 
what should be taught in their 
classes. At present, no one per
forms such a service.
I have found graduate students 
on the whole extremely intelligent,
more accessible outside of class ^ 
than most professors, and more 
interested in students'professional 
and academic careers than many 
professors. The problem is not 
"inherent" within the grad stu
dents; it is created by the organi
zation (or lack of) within the AMS 
department.
I am genuinely sorry that you,
Mr. Tumazos, have suffered so 
greatly while in AMS. I have two 
last questions. Why have you pro
longed your masochism by remain
ing in the department? Are you 
aware of the other departments 
at CMU as well as other institu
tions offering business degrees? 
Transferring is a relatively simple : 
process.
Marla Felcher
Liberty and Justice for All
Editor:
We are two CMU staff members.
On Saturday, February 11, we 
went to the gym to play racquetball. We had signed up for the * 
court from 8:45 to 9:30 AM.
continued on next page
TARTAN
Volume 76February 21, 1978Number 20
Editor-in-ChiefSherry Siegel
Managing Editor:Tim Shields
Business Manager:Ellen J. Silverman
News Editor:Lennie Matjasko
Entertainment Editor:Casey Childs
Folio Editor:K.A. Yaksich
Sports Editor:Mike Jochmann
Photography Editor:V.R.V. Ramanan
Assistant News Editor: Linda Aldridge
Photography Statfr Skip Bra.7elton, Tad Dickenson, Pete Dickey, George Lecomte, Mark Segal 
Production Assistant.
Copyright 1978 by the Camegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from.publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

Director of Auxiliary Services Bill Dillon 
on next years Housing ratesView From Warner Hall
What time of the year do you suppose is 
the most difficult time for the Housing 
Administration? Labor Day weekend 
when, after every room is checked for the 
correct amount of furniture, you face sev
eral dozen students and parents who cant 
understand that they have no furniture 
because students have gotten into the 
rooms and removed it? No, you just ask 
the maintenance staff to work a little 
harder and thank them in behalf of the 
other students whose rooms met their 
reasonable expectations. Maybe it is that 
early Sunday in October after the first 
real dorm party when you have to call in 
several maintenance and custodial em
ployees on overtime to repair the destruc
tion. No, that is not the toughest either. 
Nor the pre-Christmas ritual of telling 
students who do not like living in the 
dorms for many valid reasons that the rate 
structure for the housing operation is 
based upon a one-year contract to keep the 
rates as low as possible for all other stu
dents. That may be the second toughest 
time, but clearly the most difficult and 
least satisfying is the determination and 
announcement of an increase in next 
years room rates.
This year I asked a group of students 
to participate in the process of determining 
next years rates. We began with the objec
tive of the Housing Administration; To 
provide an environment conducive to ac
ademic achievement at a rate which returns 
the full cost of providing this environ
ment. No Auxiliary Service department 
receives any financial support from the uni
versity. Each department, including Hous
ing, must pay the full cost of constructing, 
maintaining, and operating their facilities 
from the rates which are collected during 
the year. With this objective in mind we 
looked at the types of expenses related to 
running a housing operation. We identified 
that it costs each resident on a monthly 
basis: $19 for light, heat, and water, $10 
for routine maintenance, $19 for cleaning, 
$4 for student life programming, $2 for 
pest control, insurance, rubbish hauling 
and miscellaneous services, and $5 for ad
ministration. We recognized that the uni
versitys labor rates are primarily established 
by union contract and are comparable to 
the rates of similar institutions in the Pitts
burgh area. Most contracts for services such 
as rubbish hauling, carpet cleaning, window 
washing and pest control are competitively 
bid by reputable contractors in the Pitts
burgh area, every two years, with the result 
being very favorable prices to the univer
sity. A major cost to each student is the 
$320 per year which is designated for furn
ishings, debt service on the new buildings 
and improving the safety, security, and op
erations of all existing facilitiesOver two 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars of these 
funds were spent last summer in Scobell 
Hall alone providing fire escapes, new 
plumbing, new wiring, new windows, a new 
roof and some additional student rooms. 
Approximately three times that amount 
will be spent in Morewood Gardens within 
the next three years. I think most residents 
can identify many more projects which still 
need to be accomplished.
We then discussed another cost factor in 
the dormitory operation. This is the fact
that residents are causing in excess of one 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars worth 
of otherwise unnecessary maintenance this 
year as the result of vandalism, thefts and 
carelessness. Many students have been 
directly assessed damages, some have been 
referred for disciplinary action but the 
destruction goes on.
Next we forecasted the increasing costs 
for the coming year. We found: (1) Peo
ples Gas Company estimating rates to in
crease 22% over present rates in the next 
year; (2) Estimates for steam costs (pro
duced from coal and gas) up 20%; (3) La
bor costs which represent 40% of all hou&* 
ing costs will rise a conservative 7%; 
(4) Centrex will raise the cost of housing by 
$35 per student. Finally, the university is 
asking that dormitory rates recover $20 per 
resident to reflect some portion of the cost 
of the services provided by Purchasing, 
Personnel, Security, Cashier, and Ac
counting Departments. But what is the 
bottom lioe?!V Do we really have to pay 
more? is always the question which gets 
everyones attention. And that makes it 
the worst time of the year.
Yes, housing rates are going up again 
next year. By the time this is published 
the exact rates will be finalized. Hopefully 
plans will also be announced whereby stu
dents have more incentive to keep future 
costs and thus future rates down. But the 
viewpoint which I wish to express is that 
no one in the administration wants to see 
housing rates go up. No one involved in 
the rate determining process receives any 
benefit from higher charges. Students and
the administration are in this together and 
the inefficienies where they exist are ours 
to be corrected. However, as long as stuents pressure against enforcing regulations 
affecting discipline (SDC letter to the 
TARTAN, 11/8/77) and as long as no one 
accepts the necessity of a one-year contract 
of the desirability of requiring individuals 
who have more than their allotted space to 
accept a new roommate, the rates will 
continue to climb. As long as admini
strators are criticized for practices which 
are intended to reduce costs (TARTAN 
editorial 12/31/77 on reusing leftovers) 
without a fair analysis of the facts, prices 
will continue to rise.
It is too late for next year but the time 
to change things is now for lowering the 
1979-80 rates. Maybe for the balance of 
this year and next year more time and 
attention can be focused on the issue 
of keeping housing costs down. I wel
come student participation in any effort 
to reduce costs. Students can express con
cern by supporting attempts to reduce 
vandalism, developing programs to encour
age conservation of energy and suggesting 
ideas to reduce their costs. I feel that stu
dents and the administration must accept 
the collective responsibility to move 
towards improvement.
Please do not misunderstand. I am not 
shirking the responsibility or account
ability for the administering the auxiliary 
services of the university. I accept the job 
of trying to do the best I can for each hous
ing dollar. I am merely offering to share 
this process with anyone who is truly 
interested in spending the time to help 
reduce the rates for future years.
more Letters
continued from previous page
However, when we arrived three 
men were occupying the ball court. 
We informed them we had signed 
up for this time. One man told us 
that there was a sign downstairs 
indicating that the gym is open 
from 10-5 on Saturday and Sun
day and refusing to let us have the 
court, he closed the door and re
sumed playing. We looked for the 
sign, but to no avail.
If the gym is open on Saturday 
and Sunday from 10-5 why are 
there no signs and why were the 
three men allowed to p'ay?
Why don't the sign-up sheets 
indicate the actual times when the 
ball courts are available?
We believe that these men were 
either faculty or administrators of 
the university. Are the gym hours 
restricted only for students and
staff personnel? DO THE RULES 
OF THE UNIVERSITY APPLY 
TO ALL?
Donna and Maggie
Mate in One
Editor:
The Chess Comer for this week 
(TARTAN 2/7/78) is the last 
straw. For months the editor of 
this comer has been insulting the 
intelligence of TARTAN readers 
in the crudest possible manner. 
He has published problems con
taining gross errors; he does not 
give credit to the authors of the 
problems; most of the problems 
lacked any sublety or any other 
kind of interest, being positions 
from games between donkeys, in 
which the solutions were obvious
sequences of checks and captures 
lacking any artistic appeal or even 
anything unusual to compensate 
for their triviality.
In this weeks problem, the 
caption is White to play and 
mate in five moves. :Well, White 
may mate on the first move if he 
desires (1. Q-Q6). Its gotten 
pretty bad when the editor of a 
chess puzzle column misses a mate 
in one.
The editor of this column is 
not malicious or even stupid, but 
only lacks knowledge of the basic 
standards of the chess problem 
world. Therefore, I suggest that 
he be allowed to clean up his act, 
and the following standards 
should be rigidly enforced:
Credit should be given to the 
authors of all problems.
All problems should be taken
from the standard problem lit
erature. This includes other prob
lem columns, such as the one 
which appears in the U.S. Chess 
Federations monthly magazine, 
Chess Life, as well as a large 
number of books which have been 
published containing collections 
of problems.
This should allow the TAR
TAN to avoid publishing obvious 
turkeys, in the absence of an ed
itor who can judge them him
self.
Bruce W. Leverett
Joe Bartnicki replies: Mr. Leverett 
is absolutely correct about the 
problem in question. / made a ter
rible blunder and I apologize pro
fusely. Also, he is right in that I 
have been lax in naming the au
thors of the problems. This will
be corrected. Crow tastes awful.
The rest of his letter was writ
ten without knowing the full cir
cumstances involved so we must 
excuse him for his ignorance.
The editor of the column is 
the Sports Editor, and he was 
not responsible for the mistake.
...This is the first time in al
most two years that someone has 
written me offering any kind of 
suggestion or criticism concerning 
the chess problems. I was going to 
quit this semester from the total 
lack of apathy of the chess com
munity at CMU. Write, call, or 
send smoke signals in the future about what you would like to see 
in the Chess Comer and give me 
some feedback.
I will be most happy to print 
interesting problems submitted to 
me in care of the TARTAN.
UNCEMENT
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities*and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Gay Supporters at Pitt welcome all CMU
supporters. Meetings are held every Sunday 
at 6:00 PM. Check the personals in the 
back of the Pitt News for location and 
further information.
"6 at 8"a series of 6 seminars designed to
explore assessment and change in various 
areas of contemporary society. This series 
will be presented on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, 
and Thursdays the weeks of Feb. 27 and 
Mar. 6. All programs are at 8:00 PM in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. First program is 
Feb. 28. Please see ad in todays paper for 
more details. Program is free and sponsored 
by Campus Program Planning.
A disco dance will be held at 9:00 PM,
on Saturday, February 25 on the 4th
floor of 315--S. Beliefield Ave. It is spon
sored by the Campus Campaign for Israel 
and World Jewry.
The Student Dorm Council is having a buggy meeting February 21 at 7 00 PM in 
both the Morewood Piano Room and in 
the Donner Lounge. Come by and sign
up. We want pushers and drivers (small)
especially, but everyone is welcome. If 
you can't make it, call ext. 4388 and 
talk with John Golec or Frank Worbs. 
Thanks.
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship will meet
on Wednesday, February 22, in Skibo Room 
39, at 7:00 PM. Tom Trevathan will be 
giving his second in a series of three talks 
on the Greatness of God. All are welcome.
PREMEDS: Application packets for the
1978 New Medical College Admission-Test 
(New MCAT) have arrived and can be ob
tained from A. J. Streiff in the Chemistry 
Department Office, Doherty Hall 2114. 
The Spring postmark registration deadline 
is March 20. The Fall postmark registration 
deadline is September 1.
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will
feature Leslie Smith, with contemporary 
and original folk music at the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave.. 
Oakland on Friday. February 24 at 8:30 
PM. Coffee, tea. cider and interesting snacks 
are also featured on the ALTERNATIVE 
Menu. For information, call 682-6886.
A special Sabbath dinner will be held at
5:30 PM, Friday. February 24 at B'nai 
B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape (PAAR)
will be holding a discussion and film con
cerning self-defense and the prevention 
of rape, TONIGHT 9:30-10 30 /PM in the 
Donner Lounge. We have been very lucky 
in the past with a low number of assaults, 
but that is no excuse for continued ignor
ance. You may never have occasion to stop 
an assault, but then again/'An hour of pre
vention is worth a pound of cure." Spon
sored by Resident Life.
Foreign Policy and National Security Pol
icy: A Bureaucratic Perspective (88-450). 
Dick Creecy, Senior Fellow for Arms 
Control and Disarmament, and Paul Ham
mond, E.R. Weidleim, Professor of En
vironmental and Public Policy Studies, 
University of Pittsburgh, will be guest 
speakers on Thursday, February 23, 
1978 at 2:30 PM in Scaife Hall 224.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSft. Cl ASSIFiro A PS_________
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Clatsrfied rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
The Summer Studies Office of CarnegieMellon University is looking to hire a staff 
of resident couselors to coordinate and 
supervise a student-life program for high 
school students attending the Advanced 
Placement/Early Admission, Fine Arts PreCollege and Project Upward Bound Pro
grams. Counselors must be energetic and 
willing to live and work closely with the 
programs' participants. Compensation in
cludes room and board for the six-week 
session, June 26 through August 4. Ap
plications, along with the detailed job 
descriptions, are available in the Summer 
Studies Office, first floor of Warner Hall.
PREMEDS: The Health Professions Advi
sory Committee will hold a meeting with 
premeds at 4:30 PM on Thursday, March 2, 
in Doherty Hall, Room 1112. The primary 
disciiion will center on the procedure for 
applying to medical school and the New 
Medical College Admission Test (New 
MCAT). Refreshments.
The film version of Alex Haley's "ROOTS"
will be shown in theWherrett Room, Skrbo, 
from Monday, Feb. 20 through Thursday, 
March 16. The 12 episodes will be shown 
over 12 lunch hours. Each chapter wil be 
shown twice a day at 11:30 and 12:30. 
See ad in todays Tartan for details of cur
rent showings. Please note that for next 
week only there will be no Monday show
ing, due to February holiday. Film will be 
shown on Tuesday, Feb. 28. Sponsored by 
Campus Program Planning. Free. Bring 
your lunch and a friend.
Episcopal Prayer Services will be held in
Skibo 39 Mondays and Wednesdays at 
noon, and Thursdays at 1:00 PM, during 
spring semester. DURING LENT, the 
Thursday 1:00 PM service will be a 
Eucharist, with Jonathan Appleyard, 
Episcopal chaplain for CMU. Everyone is 
welcome! Call x2794 for information.
"Food for Thought; A Dietary Approach
to Freedom from Disease is the topic of a 
free public lecture to be held Friday even
ing, February 24 at 7:30 PM at the Utility 
Center of Pittsburgh on Penn Ave. near 
Lang St. in Point Breeze. Jim Winer, author 
of the "Handbook of Basic Nutrition," will 
be the speaker. Sponsored by the Semple 
Street Food Co-op.
Artists who would like to submit between
three and eight pieces of work to the Black 
Visual Arts Display, which is to be held 
Friday, March 17, should call Winston at 
687-9610.
PREMEDS PREPARING FOR PODIATRIC MEDICINE: April 1, 1978 is the 
deadline for submission of applications for 
the 1978entering class.This deadline makes 
it possible for students planning on entering 
in Fall, 1978 to use the required New 
MCAT which will be taken on April 15, 
1978. See A. J. Streiff, Doherty Hall 2114, 
for details.
dubs
Computer Club meeting Wednesday, Feb
ruary 22, at 7:30 in Room 33 of Skibo. 
Please bring project proposals. All interested 
are invited to attend.
scholarships awards prizes
The Society of the Plastics Industry,
Inc., Expanded Polystyrene Division, an
nounces a $1000 scholarship award. Any 
innovative design for almost any practical 
application of polystyrene foam may win 
an award. First Award: $1000, Second 
Award: $300, Third Award: $200, Two 
Honorable Mentions: $100 each. Details 
available from The Society of the Plas
tics Industry, 3150 Des Plaines Avenue, 
Des Plaines, II., 60018.
Writers: You can win $100; $50; or $25
in cash and book prizes for best short 
story, humorous essay, or other short 
pieces between 250 and 1000 wordswith 
free copy of winning College Contempor
aries Magazine for allif you enter the Col
legiate Creative Writing Contest whose 
deadline is April 25. For rules and official 
entry form, send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope to: International Publications, 
4747 Fountain Ave., Dept. C-3, Los 
Angeles, CA 90029.
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County Ohio 
and who had a 2.5 grade point average may 
apply for the Trumbull County Panhellenic 
Association Scholarship for 197879. 
Details and application forms are available 
in Dean Cox's office, Warner Hall 204. 
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is April 1, 1978.
Carnegie-Mellon University Press and the
Academy of American Poets will award a 
prize of $100 for the best poem or group 
of poems by an undergraduate. Manuscripts 
should be submitted no later than March 1, 
to Anne King in the Main English Office, 
BH 269. 1 to 5 poems may be submitted 
with xerox and carbon copies acceptable 
as manuscripts will not be returned.
$3,500$2,500$2,000To be awarded
to the three top essayists by Friends of 
Animals, Inc.
The Regina Bauer Frankenberg Scholar
ship contest is aimed at fostering interest 
in changing the relationship between 
humans and other life forms. Awards will 
be given to students who present the three 
best essays incorporating animal rights 
principles in support of a Federal legislative 
campaign. The subject of the essay is, 
"Why should Congress, on behalf of the 
people, the animals and the environment, 
ban the leg-hold trap?"
For further information and entry form, 
please write: Friends of Animals, Scholar
ship Committee, 11 West 60th Street, New 
York, NY 100.23
Applications are now available for Delta
Delta Delta Service Projects scholarships. 
The 1978 award of $100 will be made to 
full time, undergraduate women. The re
cipient of this award is automatically 
eligible for one of the national awards of 
$1000, with no additional applications or 
procedures necessary.
Academic record, contribution to cam
pus or community life, promise of ser
vice in the major field, and financial need 
are among the criteria considered.
Applications forms are available in 
Dean Cox's office in Warner Hall, Room 
204. Completed applications must be re
turned on or before February 17, 1978.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a 
total of over $952,520 to 4,933 deserving 
students. In 1977, approximately 57% 
of these scholarships were awarded to 
unaffiliated students, 34% to Tri Deltas, 
and 9% to other oanhellenic members.
classified
FIND YOURSELF. Newly available syn
thetic word test helps with the hardest job 
of all, finding yourself. Send $1.00 for 
exam plus instructions to Freelance Assoc
iates, Box 13065, Pittsburgh, PA 15243.
TypingProofreadingSelectric. Symbols,
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed. 
734-1331. No answer. 761-8584.
Want ride on periodic basis from McKees
port to Carnegie-Mellon. Will pay. Call 
678-0054.
Gross Group Organizations, leaders, & hu
man potential practitioners and instruc
tors: We are interested in presenting your 
name and services to the public at no cost 
to you. Call Ed Starr & Associate 731  
4709 or 824-6625,
Original Wedding Bands, why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458 Diamonds.
Addressers Wanted Immediately! Work at
homeno experience necessaryexcellent 
pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park 
Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX 75231.
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential, caring
friend, Lifeline, 341-3322. Free Pregnancy 
testing.
TARTAN Elections
The TARTAN will hold its annual elections for next 
year's Editorial Board on March 13 at 5 PM in Skibo, 
room 13. Positions open will be
Editor-in-Chief Sports Editor
News Editor Folio Editor
Entertainment Editor Features Editor 
Photography Editor
Candidates for Editor-in-Chief must be full-time CMU 
students who have worked on the TARTAN for at least 
one semester.
Candidates for section editors must be full-time 
CMU students.
If you have questions call the TARTAN at 578-2TI1 or Sherry Siegel at 578-4941

---------------------------------------------------

Construction 
of GSIA addition
February 21, 1978TARTANpage 9
to begin soon
by Stuart Seidman
The Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration has announced that it expects 
to start construction of an addition to their 
current building withintne next four 
weeks. The cost of the addition is estima
ted at over $800,000. This new addition 
will house two new lecture halls along with 
student and faculty offices.
According to Neil Binstock, the Assistant 
to the Dean of GSIA, the school has had a 
space shortage in their current facilities for 
several years. Even though GSIA is one of 
the smallest graduate business schools in 
the country, it has been expanding its class 
size over the past five years. While there 
were only about 50 graduates in 1972, this 
years class is expected to be closer to 100.
The addition has several innovations in 
it. It will be the first building built on the 
CMU campus that will be designed to be 
energy efficient. To conserve energy there 
are special low wattage/high output light 
fixtures. There will also be insulated win
dows and a special variable air volume heat
ing, ventilat on and air-conditioning system. 
Along with enejjjy considerations, the ad
dition is designed with the handicapped 
person in mind. Though these features are 
expected to save the school money in the 
long run, they have driven up the cost of 
the initial project.
To fund the addition, GSIA will begin a 
massive fund-raising drive early next month 
among their 1300 alumni. The fund-raising 
drive will center around a program in 
which the alumni will have the opportunity 
to buy a square foot of the addition. 
Until the funds are raised, the University is 
financing the addition Ai'uvd-ng to Neil 
Em-ck, as the funds a-e :a:sed frrm Iheii 
alumni (and whether or not they are 
raised), GSIA will repay the University.
It was originally hoped that construc
tion of the addition would begin on Feb
ruary 15th. But, since even the low bid 
came in higher than was expected, the 
sch( ol is now negotiating with the low 
bidder, the Harry Dunn Company of 
Carnegie, Fa., to finalize the cost of the 
addition. This company has done renova
tion work in several of the campus build
ings over the past two years.
The original completion date was to be 
November 1 of this year, in time for the 
beginning of the second GSIA mini-term. 
However now that the starting date for 
construction has been pushed back, GSIA 
is hoping that the addition will be finished 
by January 1, 1979, so that the new lec
ture halls and offices can be used for the 
spring term next year.
The project was initiated in October, 
1976 by Dean Arnold Weber, then the 
Dean of GSIA. In November, 1976, the ar
chitecture firm ol Johnstone, Newcomer,
& Valentour, who designed the GSIA 
building in 1950-51, were recalled to de
sign the addition. Since JN&V had per
formed the original design work, it was telt
that they would be the logical choice to 
add to the building, according to Joe McNalley of Physical Plant.
The addition took about a year to de
sign. Originally located between the exist
ing GSIA building and Hunt Library, this 
scheme was dropped when the Campus 
Design Committee also recommended that 
the architect make sure that the new brick 
match the existing brick.
' ' J K - -
GSIA addition is diagrammed above. Addition A will consist of offices, B of lecture halls.
Fall '77 Dean's Lists announced
The following are the Dean's Lists for 
the Colleges of CIT, MIS, and H&SS. The 
requirements for the Dean's List in the Col
lege of H&SS are a quality point average of 
3.50 with a minimum of 42 units. The re
quirements for the Dean's Lists for both 
CIT and MIS are a quality point average of 
3.75 with a minimum of 45 units and no 
incomplete grades.
H&SS. Seniors: Abbott, Thomas L.; 
Altmnn, Elizabeth; Beyer, Virginia; Bosch, 
Timothy; Collins, Frances; Conte, Johanna; 
Englund, Caroline; Fedock, M. Ellen; 
Freedman, James; Jochmann, Michael; 
Lamagna, Ellen; Long, Gregory; McCutcheon, Constance; Niehoff, Debra; Riefstahl, 
Diane; Rudisin, Susan; Schkolnik, Paul; 
Sheehan, Marjorie; Snell, Nadine; Sopko; 
John; Werstein, Marie; West, Scott.
Juniors: Aldridge, Linda; Burda, Philip; 
Curran, Jocelyn; Deak, Linda; Driks, Barry; 
Farrugia, Diane; Fortuna, Philip; Frankenberg, Jean; Jamison, Robert; Kotzuk, 
Sarhh; Matjasko. Lenora; Mattoon,Carlyne; 
Nagy, Elizabeth; Patrick, Mary; Scheuer
mann, Ann; Zamagias, Constantine; Zischkau, Jonathon.
Sophomores: Bennett,. Richard; Davies, 
Driana; Hollick, Laurie; Kaniecki, Michael; 
Milligan, Susan; Mongeau, David; Packer, 
Lisa; Price, Cindy Lu; Rakaczky, Susan; 
Smith, Elaine; Walsh, Marilyn; Yaksich, 
Karen; Zaslow, Jeffrey.
Freshmen: Donaldson, Jennifer; Geraci, 
Elena; Grace, James; Harshbarger, Patricia; 
Lehman, David; Lupinacchi, Maria;Meinen, 
Colleen; Melnick, Michael; Schlisserman, 
Stuart; Smith, Kimberly; Steffey, Duane.
CIT. Seniors: Robert L. Eimer, HI 
Chem. E.; Michael J. Gibbs--C.E.; Joseph C. 
Grabowski-E.E.; Wayne C. Gramlich--E.E.; 
Jin Hwan Kim--E.E.; Paul S. Maurer--C.E.; 
William D. McGraw-E.E.; Richard A. 
Mengato-Chem. E.; Michael A. Niman-- 
Mech. E.; Michael J. Perriello-E.E.; Clare 
M. Rimnac--M&MS.; William A. SalterE.E.; Scott J. Sullivan-Chem. E.; David B. 
Wecker--E.E.
Juniors: Michael D. Alston-E.E.; Donna 
M. Andrewson--E.E.; Anna J. Batyko--E.E.; 
Jeffrey M. Benedict-.-C.E.; Guido Bertocci-- 
E.E.; Edward C. Borgoyn--E.E.; Gerrit M. 
Buchheim-M&MS.; Kenneth J. CaldwellMech. E.; William J. Cannella--Chem. E.; 
Michael J. Carey--E.E.; Gianni O. Chieruzzi 
--C.E.; Julie B. Cohen--E.E.; David L. Conover--C.E.; Joan M. Cunningham--E.E.; 
Robert J. Demyanovich-Chem. E.; James 
R. Diandreth-Chem. E.; Anthony M. Digioia, II-C.E.; Robert P. Evert-Mech. E.; 
Michael S. Fox--E.E.; Gregg R. GaileyMech. E.; Wayne E. Grassel--E.E.; Andrew 
Gruss--E.E.; James M. Johnson--Chem. E.; 
Debra H. Kufert--C.E.; Charles S. Kuivila 
-Chem. E.; Cynthia N. Lawson-Mech. E.; 
Glenn C. Linderman-E.E.; Ronald J. 
Marnicio--Mech. E.;Chia-Lu JeffPan--Mech. 
E.; James W. Parkinson-Mech. E.; Robert 
G. Pelini--Chem. E.;RobertL. Regis--Chem. 
E.; Edward A. Richley, Jr.--E.E.; Deborah 
J. Robisin-Chem. E.; Stanley A*. SkerlMech. E.; Frank A. Spaniel--Mech. E.; Mar
tin Spreng--E.E.; Mary C. Weeks--C.E.; 
Frederick T. Zendt--E.E.
Sophomores: Richard D. Amold--E.E.; 
Raymond W. Aul--Chem. E.; John R. 
Brockenbrough-Mech. E.; Thang Nguyen 
Bui--E.E.; George R. Canepa--E.E.; James 
P. Christ--E.E.; Gregory S. Cohen-Chem. 
E.; Randal L. Fittante--Chem. E.; Philip 
Gacka--Mech. E.; Keith A. Kambies-E.E.; 
Matthew F. Kersen-E.E.; David P. KinderMech. E.; George J. Limberiou--E.E.; Keith
A. Mach-Mech. E.; Jeffrey O. McEwenE.E.; David S. McGhee-C.E.; Scott R. 
Mourier-E.E.; Mark A. Newbom-Mech. E.; 
Teresa L. Preskar--Chem. E.; Kraig D. Sarver--Mech. E.; Avram, Scheiner--Mech. E.; 
James T. Scholze--E.E.; James G. ScripkoChem. E.; William J. Sisak-M&MS.; Janel 
M. Smith-C.E.; Franklin W. Smoot-E.E.: 
James G. Uber--E.E.; Jane A. VaselenakChem. E.; Christopher C. Wellman-E.E.
Freshmen: Joseph C. Allen; David A.
Auerbach; Ethan F. Ball. Ill; David P. 
Brady; Robert A. Brenner: Lawrence A.
Bucci; John G. Dorman; Barry L. Drexler; 
Kevin M. Duffy; James E. Dvorsky; Mary E. 
Fogel; Steven P. Fulton; Miles J. Gehm, 
Jr.; Gregory D. Jordan; Deborah A. Kaltwasser; Paula C. Kasmerski; Victoria L. 
Kennedy; Stephen T. Kraus; Richard O. 
Lamaire; Gary L. Leatherman; Andrew J. 
Piccoli; Thomas F. Robinson, II; Theresa 
M. Slava; Philip A. Stoutz;Glenn P. Swaney; 
Peter M. Vujaklia; Mary Jo Weber; Neil J. 
Yosinski; John A. Zsarnay.
MIS. Seniors: John R. Curry--Math; 
Diane E. Dubinsky-Chemistry; Diane L. 
Griffin-Math; Eric R. Huhn--Math; William 
J. Trosky--Math; Jane B. Vitti-Chemistry: 
Gerard Vockley-BSC; Dane K. WukichBSC.
Juniors: George H. Bellesis--Phy.; James
D. Chrisman-Math; Laurie A. FediganChemistry; John A. Grimm-Math; Bret E. 
Jackson-Chemistry; David R. Mark-Math; 
Phillip V. Mitchell--Phy.; Roy R. ParkerChemistry; Edward C. Pervin-Math; Kerry
B. Raduns-Chemistry ; Michael J. SaftnerBSC; Thomas J. Steppe-Math; Andrew B. 
Struble-Math; Richard J. luck.* -Math; 
James M. Walter^-Math.Sophomores: Michael J. AcettaMath;
John F. Brandt-Chemistry; Robert M. 
Fearing-Math; Gale Gammerdinger-Math; 
Shafrira Goldwasser-Math; Michael B. 
HurleyPhy.; Ronald J, Kotun-Chemistry; Christopher J. Maher-Phy.; Jeff R. 
MetzgerChemistry; Michelle M. Peetz 
Math; Matthew T. SenkoPhy.: William
E. Schmidt -Phy.; Robert E. Stockdale 
Phy.; Karen A. Tisinai-Chemistry: Timo
thy C. TrageserChemistry: Samuel G, 
Zingaro. Jr.-Mjth; Judith I, ZinnikasMath.
Freshmen: John J Becker; Kami L. 
Brasher: Steven R. Costenoble: Sarah L. 
Du bei I: Donald S. Dyer; Ronald W. Kownacki: Joseph S. Mitchell; Roger W. Patrick; 
Raymond Nf. Pluninsic: Rhonda L. Righter; 
Glen M. Riley; Henry W. Stone: Susan C. 
Swier/ewski; Kurl C. Wiesen: Peter J.
Wilcoxen.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

m
m
i;
s-*
mmt
s'a
1 *-y~~ ' -- L'**V
The TI-57. The super slide-rule thatll get you into programming... fast and easyEven if youve never programmed before.
For the student who re
quires slide-rule functions, the 
TI-57 delivers an exceptional 
combination of advanced 
mathematical and statistical 
capabilities. From functions 
such as trig, logs, powers, roots 
and reciprocals...to mean, var
iance, standard deviation and 
much more.
And as long as youre in 
the market for a super sliderule calculator, why not buy 
one that can also put the power, 
speed and convenience of pro
gramming at your disposal?
Programming a calculator
simply means giving it a logical 
set of instructions for accom
plishing what you want it to 
do. Programming enables you 
to solve lengthy and repetitive 
problems 
quickly 
by sub
stituting 
new vari
ables into 
the seVof 
instructions 
which you 
have al
ready entered into the machine.
The end result is more efficient use of your time in prob
lem-solving.
All this and more is ex
plained in our unique, illus
trated, easy-to-follow guide
book, Making Tracks Into 
Programming. This 200-page 
book comes with the TI-57. It 
contains simple, step-by-step 
instructions and examples to 
help you quickly learn to use 
programming functions to 
make your problem-solving 
faster, more accurate and fun.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
...INNOVATORS IN 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
Forth eshudnwosuh
 1978 Texas Instruments IncorporatedINCORPORATED
P<i. fails to increase 
appropriations, Pitt 
tuition goes up
According to the Pittsburgh Press, the 
yearly tuition at the University of Pitts
burgh will be increased $100 to $1410 for 
undergraduates starting this spring term. 
Graduate school tuition will be raised $ 110 
to $1500, and the trustees will soon decide 
on an increase for the dental, law and med
ical schools when their next terms begin in 
September.
At the trustees meeting on Tuesday, 
February 14, Chancellor Wesley Posvar said 
the hike was due to the states failure to in
crease university appropriations for the 
third consecutive year. Posvar indicated 
that another tuition increase in September 
is likely if the legislators fail to hike Gov
ernor Milton Shapps recommendation of 
$60.4 million in appropriations for Pitt.
The chancellor said the tuition increase 
will mostly affect the middle income class, 
since about $10 million in student aid is 
available to help the poorer families.
The issue here is the survival of the 
concept of higher public education. Penn
sylvania is backing out step by step on its 
commitment to support higher education, 
so that the opportunity for the lower mid
dle and middle income students is being 
diminished.
If we want to have a rich Pennsylvania 
in the year 2000, higher education is where 
we should be putting our investment, Pos
var explained.
Penn State has already announced a 
tuition hike for spring term and Temple 
University has added a surcharge on spring 
tuition because Shapp also proposed to 
keep their funding the same.
Pitt, Penn State and Temple now have 
the dubious distinction of having the high
est tuition rates of any publicly supported 
universities in the country. The people of 
Pennsylvania have to be aroused and con
vince the upcoming candidates for the leg
islature and governor that they will Afi 
longer stand for an ineffective govern* 
ment, Posvar said.
Next week in the TARTAN.. FM Esfandiary, Up-wingerV-.
som
inVLlG:ei js
nT
1KJ9the United Way
Iffyo
OPPORTUNITIES 
mv COME
Ru you
0V/ZA 
PA.IVK.. 
TGS.
mUri/lS, ML GOD < TONICS, 
-3 OTTLES OF CHAU PA 6/UE,  R.OTY 
Affi/LS AMD A SH/R.l.Y Te* PLE. 
THAT 'U 66 1M2.70.
POT IT 
Reg MV TAB.WHY, THWtf 
'fou J. R.

---------------------------------------------------

Vw>^ vj
February 21,1978 / Volume II / Issue 4: 
I Was a Teenage Transfer Student

---------------------------------------------------

I WAS A TEENAGE
page 12T ART ANFebruary 21,1978
( The FOLIO staff would like to welcome Jeff 
Zaslow back to CMU following his brief vaca
tion in New York City. This is his story. )
"What posessed you to do it? What came over 
you?"
My mother was sitting at the kitchen table 
third degreeing me as if I'd just shot the sheriff 
and raped the womanfolk.
"You had it so good. Can't you ever be satis
fied?" She was crying.
I stared down at the map of Northern Manhat
tan and Harlem and didn't answer her She was 
right, however, and I wasn't denying it. I could 
never be satisfied. If I were dining in the White 
House, I'd be the first to say, "pass the ketchup". 
If I were given the key to the city I'd ask for a 
couple of duplicates in case I lost it. I could never 
smile my way through a Geritol commercial be
cause I'm not of the opinion that when you've 
got your health, you've got everything. Everything 
is a pretty tall order to fill.
TARTAN FOLIO
February 21. 1978 / Volume II / Issue 4:
I Was a Teenage Transfer Student
EDITOR K.A. YAKSICH
ASSISTANT EDITOR FREDERIC LAPOINTE
ART DIRECTOR SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: JEFF ZASLOW
STUART SIEDMAN
COVER DESIGN: ANDY EPSTEIN
How did I get myself into this awful predica
ment? Well, I'm the type who reaches certain 
plateaus of satisfaction and then I reach for the 
higher rung of the ladder, the larger slice of the 
cake and so on. Now I had flown too close to the 
sun and my wings were melting. Or at least that's 
what had my mother so upset.
Then my father walked in and told my mother 
to stop crying. What had his son done? Nothing as 
horrible as murder or rape. My father was serious 
and vehement. He said that transferring to 
Columbia was one of the smartest moves I could 
make. He said he was proud of me. Damn,proud. 
And he continued by ordering me to go back to 
New York the following morning and to stay 
there until I found a place to live.
Thanks for the support, Dad, but I was siding 
with my mother.
What posessed me to do it? What came over 
me? I was a sophomore, cruising through the 
Creative Writing program here at CMU with a 
steadily rising grade point average. I had some 
good friends and acres of acquaintances. I some
times sipped beer on weekends and went to 
movies in 2210 with a wonderful All-American 
girlfriend. I was having a great time editing 
FOLIO and a greater time writing about the 
utopia around me in my diary. These facts help to 
further my story and the idiocy of my situation.
Please understand that I was never happier than 
I was at CMU for three semesters. I applied to 
Columbia to satisfy my curiosity. I took Jimmy 
Carter's slogan, "Why not the best?" in an effort 
to see if Columbia (the best in my field) would 
accept me. Now my mother was giving me a 
second slogan. "Why not the second best (CMU) 
as long as I'd be happy?''
She knew I applied to Columbia for the hell of 
it. On a whim. I spent twenty dollars on an appli
cation instead of a steak dinner with my girl
friend. I got some recommendations, had my 
transcript full of beauty marks sent to New York, 
and was accepted.
I'd been telling llene, my girlfriend, that I 
wasn't planning to go to Columbia; that I 
couldn't leave her. Actually, I didn't even tell her 
that I applied until a month later, and she didn't 
take too kindly to that. The reason I didn't tell
her was because I didn't really ever want to go 
Ivy League. But it hurt llene, perhaps rightly so, 
that I didn't tell her, and I sincerely begged her 
not to worry about a thing. I'd never go!
I even took to painting the fence to apologize 
to her;
"Happy Birthday llene
Columbia or CMU, No matter where, I'll 
still love you."
After seeing the fence, all of llene's friends 
wished her a happy birthday on November 6th, 
but a number got confused and thought that she 
was transferring to Columbia. Of course, llene 
told them that it was me, the flighty boyfriend 
who had the wild insane idea to leave "too-goodto-be-trueness". When I was confronted with the 
question of transfer from the fence-readers I just 
giggled and said, "What, are you crazy? I love it 
here."
llene and I and the campus forgot about Col
umbia for a while. Then the worst happened. On 
December 20th, I received a congratulatory letter 
from New York that said I was accepted for the 
Spring term. I was given one week to provide 
a yes or no answer to the admissions office.
So there's the situation. Then came the advice 
and recommendations. I was studying independ
ently with History Professor Schoenwald, who 
told me it was an opportunity that would be 
tough to pass up. My family and friends pointed 
out the reputation, the superior courses and the 
alumni. Some people said that I really had no 
choice but to go. I got some books out of the lib
rary that told me what an honor it would be to go 
to Columbia. There it was. The higher rung of the 
ladder. The larger s*'re of the cake. And soon to 
be, the violent kick in the pants.
I decided that I had to go, and I started saying 
goodbye.
I promised my friends to keep in touch. I pro
mised llene letters, visits and devotion. I wrote 
her a farewell poem to go along with my farewell
kiss;
Had we no tomorrow,
Were the world to end today,
Then nothing, love, then nothing,
Could send me, I would stay.

---------------------------------------------------

February 21,1978TARTANpage 13
TRANSFER STUDENT
The poem continued with four more verses, 
but I was already out of Pittsburgh by the time . 
llene read it. Did Zhivago leave Lara that way? I 
forget.
My brother, a Doctor and Harvard graduate, 
became emotional and poetic also and wrote me a 
poem entitled "Jeff's Decision" that concluded,
1 y Fair Columbia, I beg you,
Treat my brother as I would do,
Oh seat of truth, to him be true,
And justify your invitation.
I promised my Professors and TARTAN co
workers that I'd do my best and someday "make 
it" because Columbia was that special. I don't 
know where I came up with the notion that 
f ^everybody who graduated from Columbia went 
on to become Time Magazine's Man of the Year, 
but when I left Pittsburgh, I believed that.
On the third of January, I took a train from 
Philadelphia (my hometown, where I was spend
ing an anxious Christmas vacation) to New York. 
The train was packed with successful business
men, some of whom couldn't find seats. I thought
, i to myself that all of those jackets with vests 
would disappear into the New York mob scene 
without much hope for identification by most of 
the other three piece suits, let alone the common
ers. That was my first omen, but not the worst.
Off the train and onto the subway, I watched 
the different hued faces around me and came to 
the conclusion that they all lacked muscles in 
their faces. Drab expressions with vacant stares and 
determined frowns. Goddamned zombies! The guy 
next to me had on one shoe and one bedroom 
slipper. I figured his appearance depended on 
which side of the bed he got up on.
Off the subway and onto the campus. Sure, it 
was beautiful, but so is India, and there people
Febru auy2aAW> YtAR &(E I si
fit
.  0 STUDtNTSSI(Columbia.
C3
5*78- =J
ANYTHING (!) GOES 
in next week's FOUO
are starving and dying. I went into the Admissions 
office for my appointment and I was told;
1) No housing on campus for transfer students. 
Don't beg. We won't give it to you. Sorry.
2) No financial aid for transfer students. Don't 
beg. We won't give it to you. Sorry.
The Admissions staff was pleasant and cordial 
and as helpful as I guess they could be, but the 
rules were the rules. I asked if I'd ever be able to 
get housing or aid. Housing was a definite "no" 
and Aid was a definite "doubtful". I asked if I'd 
be spending the rest of my college career with a 
Scarlet T (for Transfer) on my chest. I was met 
with laughter and directions to the off-campus 
housing office.
At the off-campus housing office I came up 
with 31 apartments. I started calling. Twenty-four 
were already taken. Four of the addresses were
The guard at the door called whoever is in charge 
of such things, and the loud voice on the other 
end of the phone told him not to let me in, even 
if I was claiming to be a transfer student from 
Oxford. "Send him out."
What kind of organization was this? I was stun
ned at my treatment. Nobody gave a damn about 
me. I got into the building through another en
trance and went down to the Housing office and 
demanded a room on campus. How could I ever 
get to meet my fellow students? How could I get 
assimilated into undergraduate life?
The Secretary-in-charge-of-nobodies just shook 
her head and told me she was sorry. No rooms on 
campus for transfers. There was another student 
in there. When I said that I was a transfer student, 
he recommended that I transfer to New York 
University.________________
Low Memorial Library on the Columbia University Main campus
"rundown and horrible" according to the girl 
working in the office. I asked her why those 
apartments were offered if that were the case, and 
she said, "Some people like living in slum dwel
lings." I blushed. Surely none of my Columbia 
classmates, most of whom would one day grace 
the cover of TIME, would want to live in a slum 
dwelling.
Well, I phoned some more numbers and then 
took off to see the first available apartment.
It was close to campus, seven stories above sea 
level. I was breathing heavily on the walk up, but 
not as heavily as I'd be breathing on the run 
down.
The guy who would be my roommate answered 
the door in a bathrobe and was gay. Now that's 
ok. . .for him. (I wouldn't go so far as to say some 
of my best friends are gay, because that could get 
a person into trouble.) But he seemed a little too 
hospitable to suit my tastes. I wasn't the country 
boy horrified by life in the big city. But it scared 
me, and I quickly left, without staying for tea, 
which was offered too sweetly for my taste.
The rest of the afternoon was spent visiting 
the slum dwellings. One was worse that another. 
The landlords got nastier and less accomodating. 
Was this to be my introduction to Ivy League life?
I made my way back to the Housing office, but 
wasn't allowed in because I didn't have an I.D.
I went into a dorm Common room and sat 
down. I was near tears. Who needed the hassle? 
Why transfer? No one was kind to me. The city 
had me aghast. I wanted to go home to the Phila
delphia suburb where at least my parents cared if 
| had a runny nose.
After a good dose of self pity, I got onto the 
subway, not ever wanting to return to Columbia's 
116th Street campus. I made the mistake of get
ting off at 42nd Street where I saw all the evils 
that I never wanted to believe existed. I ran to the 
train station, got on the Metroliner, and came 
back to Philadelphia.
As soon as I got into my house, I told my 
story, and that's when my mother's tirade began. 
That's when she told me there was no need for 
me to transfer. I should just go back to Pittsburgh 
and forget about New York and Columbia.
But advice on the other side of the coin was 
too strong. Besides my father, there were all the 
others. My sister told me I could write a book 
about all my struggles in New York. (Would I call 
it Mein Kampf?) My widowed girlfriend, llene, 
wanted whatever would be best for my future. 
Columbia seemed like the answer, despite the 
sourness of my first encounter with it. llene's 
father asked me what Columbia had that Carnegie-Mellon didn't. My first answer was roaches^
(continued)

---------------------------------------------------

page 14TARTANFebruary 21,1978
Transfer
(Continued from previous page)
but my second answer (educational quality, bull
shit, bullshit) even had me impressed. I had no 
choice, I had to go to Columbia.
Another brother of mine (now in Law School) 
drove to New York with me and together, we 
scoured the area for a nice, clean, safe apartment. 
Much to my later dismay and depression, we 
found one. Five blocks from campus, on Clare
mont Avenue. I put up signs on campus asking 
for a roommate, quickly got a 23-year old room
mate, and settled down to be a Columbia Man.
My roommate was a Columbia graduate with a 
degree in Biology. He was working in Korvettes in 
the record department. Three dollars an hour. 
That was a royal depression in itself for me, but 
my roommate didn't mind a bit. He was cityshocked, if you ask me. He wore a scarf around 
the apartment and took baths instead of showers.
I never heard of a 23-year old guy who took 
baths.
The apartment itself might have been the best 
thing around, but it would prove to be my down
fall. At 220 American dollars a month, I could 
touch all four walls from the middle of the room. 
We slept on mattresses on the floor, and the only 
other piece of furniture in the room was my desk. 
The kitchen was the size of a refrigerator. The re
frigerator was the size of a breadbox. And there 
was no breadbox. We had to leave the bread on 
top of the refrigerator and turn on the radio to 
scare the roaches away from it. The view out 
the window was of a courtyard of fire escapes. 
The neighbors (who were usually invisible) were 
Puerto Rican and Hispanic. This was my West 
Side Story, and there was no Tony to serenade 
me from the fire escape.
I was still a teenager. I was only nineteen. But 
suddenly I was a man. I wasn't the fraternity boy 
fooling around in a make-believe world (the CMU 
experience). I had to shop, cook (I lost 8 
pounds), pay the gas and electric bill, and start 
my life all over again in the cruelest world of all; 
New York City. Unlike other college experiences, 
the Columbia life is an adult maturing process. 
The real-world there is all too real. I saw that 
clearly.
It didn't make matters any easier that I was 
transferring mid-semester. People I'd meet were 
already assimilated. They had time to ask me 
what school I was transferring from, but then 
they went back to their dorm room, school work 
and friends.
As for my off-campus abode, the radiator whis
tled, and my roommate usually went home to 
Brooklyn after work, and I never saw him. I was 
amazingly alone and lonely all by myself in that 
little room. The neighbors on the floor either 
never came out of their apartments, or also went 
home to Brooklyn, but I rarely saw them. The 
only sound I heard was the radiator. If I'd hear a 
door open in the hall, I'd run to meet someone 
(anyone) but .they'd always sneak into their apart
ments before I could say hello. I was beginning 
to sincerely hate my life.
Now comes the big question. How stimulating 
was the situation at the College? Well, I was un
impressed and uninspired.
Enrollment took hours upon hours of dealing 
with unfriendly people who didn't give a damn if 
I ^vere bleeding or not, as long as I didn't stain 
the enrollment cards. At the I.D. office, I had 
four pictures of myself taken and I was given a 
choice of which one would go on my card. I
naturally picked the photo where I looked like a 
human being. The girl at the counter thought I 
looked better in the picture where my eyes were 
rolled back and my mouth was shifted as if I'd 
just had a massive stroke. I cursed her under my 
breath, and she laughed and said she was sorry, 
but she wasn't. In order to be admitted into the 
buildings I'd have to roll back my eyes and shift 
my mouth to prove I really was the person in 
the picture.
People around me weren't patient. When I was 
told that nearly everybody used the IRT (sub
way), I thought it was a new kind of birth con
trol. Walking into my apartment building was a 
constant struggle. My apartment was only two 
blocks from Harlem, and the natives would come 
up to Claremont Avenue and barage the pedes
trians with snowballs. It was like dodging 
artillery.
I was shocked when I saw a man steal seven or 
eight books from an outdoor stand. I did nothing 
to stop him. I knew about the apathetic New 
York mentality. Would I be one of those do-no
things who let a Kitty Genovese be murdered in 
front of dozens of onlookers? I hoped not, but 
feared it was possible.
My classes were hard, but not unbearable. They 
just didn't grab me. In some ways, it felt like High 
School again. Everyone had to take gym, wear a 
grey gym uniform and pass a swimming test to 
graduate. As part of my core courses I had to take 
Music, Art, History from the Bible to the present 
and Literature from the Present back to the Bible.
I also had to become completely proficient in a 
language. I chose Spanish, so I could converse 
with my neighbors, if I ever met them.
I had only one writing course: Playwriting. The 
first thing the instructor told the class was that 
we'd probably never amount to anything, and 
Broadway was out of the question. And this was 
Columbia?
The classes (except for Spanish, which was co
ed with the girls from Barnard) were all male. The 
guys were coldly friendly, but had good things 
to say about CMU when I told them that's where 
I transferred from. Most thought I left such a 
good school because I was unhappy. Damn it, 
Columbians. I wasn't unhappy. I loved it there." 
They didn't believe me.
Itching to write, I started working for the 
Columbia Daily Spectator as a reporter. In my 
one week of classes at Columbia, I wrote three 
articles. One was about a sophomore who jumped 
out of a third floor dorm window in an attempted 
suicide, but lived because he landed in a snow 
bank. Though I felt that the third floor was a bit' 
noncommital if the guy really wanted to die, I did 
the interview. I was cursed by the victim's best 
friend. "You Spectator people think you're all 
Woodward and Bernstein, don't you?" It was 
only my second story, and I was already being 
categorized.
I was assigned a feature story and was told to 
make it funny by the Day Editor. So I did.
"There's a good chance that a new Delicatessan 
will be opening up on campus, and it's more than 
just baloney."
The Night Editor at the Daily Spectator asked 
me why the hell I made it funny, and then he re
wrote the whole thing, leaving out my jokes. I 
went back to my empty apartment, regretting 
what I had done with my life, and wrote this 
story. The people at the Spectator told me they'd 
print it in a few weeks.
They're still waiting for it.
On Friday night, January 27th, I called llene 
and told her that I loved the letters I'd received 
from her daily, I loved her, and I wanted to come 
back. I called my mother, who was relieved that 
I wanted "out of Harlem". Then I called Dean 
Crecine at his home and asked him if it was feas
ible.
So, CMU isn't such a bad place after all, is it?" 
he said, and then told me he didn't see why I 
couldn't come back. I'd missed 13 class days. 
CMU made things very easy for me, and I'm grate
ful that they allowed me to return. I'm still wait
ing for my refund from Columbia, so CMU is 
still yet to be paid. They're not asking for it, 
either. My goodness. . .it's just like a family 
here!
Well, I called my buddies at my fraternity and 
my former roommate told me that he'd give up 
his single and take me back. My parents told me 
that they'd be in New York early Saturday morn
ing and we'd go straight to Pittsburgh. Within 24 
hours, I'd left a two year apartment lease, a mat
tress, a desk, and an unhappy experience in 
N.Y.C., and I was back in the frat house at CMU.
I had made a mistake. I tried to correct it as 
fast as I could. I had planned to stick out the 
semester to prove to myself that I could hack it, 
but in the final analysis, it wouldn't be worth it.
I left a bit of my ambition in New York and 
decided to be happy with whatever rung of the 
ladder would keep me smiling.
Not all of my Columbia classmates will appear
on the cover of Time Magazine. I was a fool not 
to realize that. What possessed me to go Ivy
League was exorcised without an exorcist. My 
mother is now at ease. It was a learning exper
ience, something that I had to prove to myself.
Columbia is a fine institution. I'm not knock
ing it. It's graduates some great men. Columbia 
was good for them I don't think it would be right 
for me.
Finally, it's great to be back. Dorothv went all 
the way over the rainbow, but came back and said 
there's no place like home. I'm obliged to agree 
with her. People who have seen me on campus 
thinking they were seeing a ghost, calm down. 
I'm back at CMUa little skinnier, a lot 
humblerbut much happier.lt's great to be back.

---------------------------------------------------

Pryor's straightforward humor
A movie review 
Film: Which Way is Up?
Star: Richard Pryor
by Joan Livitski
Which Way Is Up?, as the title suggests, 
is in search of direction. Director Michael 
Schultz seems tom as to whether hes 
making a comedy flick as an outlet for 
Richard Pryor (who plays three main 
roles), or whether hes making a serious 
statement about blacks and migrant 
workers. Because the two forces are so 
opposing, something must give a little, 
and in this case its the message that gives 
way to the Messiah.
Richard Pryor, who plays Leroy Jones, 
is a star that deserves to shine, but he 
spreads his light a little thin. His charac
teristic straightforward humor is definitely 
evident in each one of his characters, but 
Pryor does manage to make each unique, 
a true star trait.
Pryors disinterest in using subtle humor 
is carried to the utmost in the aged father 
he portrays. Hell say anything to anyone 
and be confident that he has the right to 
say it and be unreproached. Hes bull
headed, lies demanding, hes pompous, 
hes crass. . . and I love him. Hes the kind 
of character that even if one didnt like, 
one would never question. I only wish 
his influential powers would have been 
utilized in conveying the secondary aspect
of the film, the message.
Partial to leaving a film having learned 
something and inspired to think, I saw 
much that could have been expounded on 
that got waylaid in the laughter. Empha
sizing the moralistic side would have 
mellowed out the comedy, possibly so
bering the audience completely, but I 
think it would have been worth it.
Luckily though, not all the material 
was turned into jokes. The beginning of 
the movie, if taken symbolically, tries to 
establish a metaphor to sustain the point 
behind the comedy. It almost works.
We meet the leader of the AFW (Amer
ican Farm Workers), Juarez, obviously 
meant to portray Cesar Chavez, trying to 
unify the workers. The blacks are content 
to observe rather than answer Juarezs 
call to unite. .. until Leroy Jones descends 
like an angel of salvation into their midst.
Actually, its all an accident. Leroy 
is a victim of circumstance and his own 
clumsiness. Events are too circumstantial, 
which though greatly adding to the humor 
of the situations, detracts from the point 
to be gotten across.
We initially see an innocence in Leroy, 
that if consistent could be enough to con
nect a savior-like image to him, but we too 
clearly see he has vices like everyone else. 
The only times hes interested in shouting 
Viva la Cosa, is when its for his own 
gain (i.e.'getting a job, impressing a woGlaser on design
i c.  t. - >.A lecture review 
Lecturer: Milton Glaser
Sponsor: CMU Design Department
Fyrth Reckseit
rHMention the name Milton Glaser ana a 
glow of respectful awe comes to the faces 
of designers, artists and graphic arts enthu
siasts around the world. Milton Glaser, co
founder of the Push Pin Studios, serves as a 
faculty member at both the School of Vi
sual Arts and at the Cooper Union in New 
York City. He is also President of Milton 
Glaser Incorporated, Vice-President and 
Design Director of Esquire Magazine and a 
member of the Alliance Graphique Inter
nationale. Well known to designers and the 
public, articles about him have appeared in 
Newsweek, Time and other major publica' 
tions throughout the world.' It if th^refbre 
not surprising that crowds filled the3 Si-B 
ence Hall  Auditorium, Thursday evening 
February 16, to hear Milton Glaser speak 
at the third Spring Lecture sponsored -by 
the Department of Design. yrr V . ;
Milton Glaser illustrated, showipg slides 
of his own work, what he pageant, by his to
pic,Observing Some Obsessions. Through 
out his presentation the audience saw re
curring food themes, use of enclosed space, 
horizon lines and balls and circles. Though 
Mr. Glaser says these obsessions are ob
served by him after the fact, I for one, did 
not doubt purpose behind a single stroke 
of his work. Further illustrating his obses
sions he justifies his use of profile; i.e., the 
Bob Dylan Poster, not for the sake of like
ness but for the sake of character. He be
lieves the purpose of a profile is to freeze 
the essence of the person.
The idea of theme and variation and dis
ruption of expectation are also basic obses
sions in Mr. Glasers work. He repeatedly 
showed us that the peculiarity of a situa
tion is the lever upon which a design is 
based. However, he warns that as social
manipulators designers must understand 
their audience.* If a designer makes refer
ence to parody he/she must make certain 
the audience understands the parody. An 
illustration for this rule is in his advertise
ment promoting lawn furniture for Design 
Research. The parody lies in the painting 
A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La 
Grande* latte by Seurat. Mr. Glasers
artistic liberty allowed him to add a chaiselounge to the lawn scene. The viewer is so 
convinced by the image that he is not sure 
if the lawn chair is actually part of the or
iginal painting by Seurat. Mr. Glasers at
titude does not debase classical art, quite 
the contrary. For example we view his par
ody of Italian Renaissance Art in the stair
case and trees of his advertisements for 
Olivetti, as an attempt to keep classical art 
alive by allowing people to take a fresh 
view of it.
My own obsession with Milton Glaser 
does not begin with his visual accomplish'ments but with him as a person. He has 
a thorough knowledge of his personal and 
professional self. He conveys his world
liness without arrogance and with a more 
simple, unaffected manner. Traditionally 
the graphic designer is not concerned with 
words but as Mr. Glaser humorously points 
out,It all begins with the word. Mr. Gla
sers frequent references to written mater
ial demonstrates his interest in reading and 
his ease with verbal expression where he is 
as comfortable as with the visual. Joseph 
Ballay, CMU Design Department head, ex
pressed pleasure with Glasers concern with 
relationships between verbal and visual. 
Professor Ballay feels strongly that his stu
dents be comfortable in both areas.
That in life you make one point and 
after you make that point you stay with it 
and disappear or you hand in your own his
tory, stands as a statement that probably 
explains Mr. Glasers continuing success.
Join the Design Department on March 1 
at 8:00 p.m. in Science Hall 7500. Robert 
Breer from Cooper Union will speak about 
Animation.
man). This doesnt help present a good 
argument for blacks having been significant 
in establishing the AFW.
Instead of trying to deal with the sub
ject matter at hand, the storyline quickly 
turns to Leroys infatuation with a beauti
ful member of AFW (Lonette McKee), 
Now were in the midst of a love story, 
but how we got there who can say. Then 
were distracted by a Mafia-type control 
of the food processing industry where 
all members flaunt diamond studded 
rings instead of carnations. None of this 
does a thing for developing how the 
Farm Workers Union got its start, but it 
does create comic outlets that are highly
capitalized on.
Leroy has a way of getting in one pre
dicament after another which could get 
trite, but Pryors smooth control prevents 
this. His third character could be charac
terized as a guitar-playing, black Elvis 
pastor, but were never hit with a sterotype 
by Pryor. Theres always something fresh 
and appealing.
The end of the movie attempts to re
treat back to the moralistic viewpoint, 
but the atmosphere is too light, too enter
taining. fts a shame that the message gets 
buried, but I dont think anyone who 
has seen the film can say they didnt 
enjoy themselves.
New showing at Scaife
An art review
Showing: Associated Artists of Pittsburgh 
Gallery: Sarah Scaife
by Marjorie Kernan
Art is great  if you have an educa
tion. This remark was made to me at the 
opening, while trying to discover the con
tent of a piece which we later decided had 
nospecific content. The implication here is 
that there is certain priviledged informa
tion concerning the meaning of (modem) 
art, that can be employed to understand 
work, or, in the negative sense, to invest a 
meaningless work with meaning. The stan
dard works both ways then.
This is all part of the state of certain 
problems concerning art which we have 
come to in the 20th century. In Ara'erica 
today, media and other sources have allow
ed modem man to accumulate a hoard of 
knowledge and facts of a highly sophistica
ted nature, but that the understanding and 
application of this knowledge has been ne
glected. In other words, 20th century man 
rarely knows what to do with his informa
tion, or how to utilize it in a meaningful 
way.
The Associated Artists show can be seen 
as an indicator of this problem. It has a 
highly polished, refined appearance, yet 
when one attempts to draw any intellectual 
or emotional significance from most of the 
work, one is left empty-handed. This refin
ed facade serves as a smoke screen, conceal
ing the fact that the work is devoid of sub
stantial cognitive value.
I am not referring however to technical 
proficiency. The work, almost without ex
ception, is well executed. Though technical 
proficiency is an important factor in pre
senting ones ideas, it is the ideological or 
conceptual involvement that I find lacking.
In a less negative tone, I found a numb
er of works in the show quite interesting. 
One of the best of these is a sculpture by 
Michael Morrill, Strait. It consists of two 
free standing pieces of Cor-ten steel, cut 
from two square sheets at similar angles, 
then switched and welded together. The 
simplicity of the piece is a result of its ex
treme logicality, and the space it defines in 
solids and voids is remarkably articulate.
Another interesting work is Reflective 
Rhythm A. All That Jazz, by Irene Pasinski.
It is a three-dimensional piece constructed 
of colored, reflective plexiglass, that hangs 
on the wall. Its interest lies in the denial of 
its dimensionality by the use of reflective 
surfaces, rather than the use of color, 
which is somewhat, vulgar. But the harsh
ness of its frontality and objecthood, and 
the vulgarity of the colors provide for a 
strong statement, forcing the viewer to 
confront it objectively, rather than be 
sucked into introspective illusionism.
One of the few works which, to my 
mind, deservedly receiving an award, was a 
drawing by Leslie Golomb, Allegretto II. 
The repitition of horizontal lines with the 
intrusion of a few vertical and diagonal 
lines, makes for a well structured and com
plete drawing.
Three sculptures by Lloyd Wilson I 
found refreshing in their unattractiveness. 
Obviously derived from David Smiths 
work, they at least try to deal with sculp
tural space beyond that of the solid, unlike 
a particularly banal prize-winner, Flower 
Head by Ron Bennet.
In general, the paintings in the show 
ranges from trite photo-realism (is photo
realism ever anything else?), to disgraceful
ly rendered landscapes (Millie Cohens sup
er-bourgeois, postcard style scenes), to fullof-crap abstractions (Helen Worsings A 
Ship of Sorts which will undoubtably make 
suitable whore-house art by the 21st cent
ury.) The few sincere paintings are really 
not noteworthy in their lack of analytical 
sensibilities.
Among the crafts also on exhibit were 
some good pieces, in particular Karen 
Stollers wall hanging weavings and Loise 
Pieruccis paper constructions. But there 
were also some craft pieces which I consid
er to be obscene in their vulgarity, some 
large quilted wall hangings of purple and 
crimson velvet, and a sewn cloth floorpiece 
of a reclining woman which just begs to 
have something nasty done to it.
While a nice looking show, its extreme 
range makes it somewhat incoherent. As 
an example of the work being done, it suc
ceeds, but as a professional show, it fails. 
The extreme care taken in displaying the 
work properly is appreciated by me with 
the exception that, in some cases, it has 
been overdone. The pedestals and glass 
cases have destroyed the immediate pre
sence of some works, such as Doug Picker
ings, which become totally inaccesable be
cause of their glass shield. Overall though, 
it is a fairly interesting show, worth a look 
at. I only wish that we students of Carnegie-Mellon were as well represented.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16TARTANFebruary 21, 1978
Scene designs at Hewlett
by Joan Livitski
W. Oren Parker, one of CMUS more 
than talented professors, is having a show
ing of his scenic designs at the Hewlett 
Gallery in Fine Arts.
Having come to CMU in 1963 after 
seventeen years as technical director and 
assistant professor in scene design at Yale 
School of Drama, Mr. Parker brought with 
him a great deal of experience and exper
tise. He received his B.S. degree in design 
from the College of Architecture, Univer
sity of Michigan, and his M.F.A. from the 
Yale School of Drama.
Yet teaching was to be anything but a 
substitute for doing. During a sabbatical 
in 1957, he studied English and Continen
tal production methods along with author
ing Stenographic Techniques. He later 
coauthored a second book, Scene Design 
and Stage Lighting, published by Holt, 
Rinehart and Winston, which has become 
the stagecraft Bible, it is so widely used.
Doing consulting and designing for 
numerous industrial shows, Mr. Parker 
has worked with American Motors, Coca 
cola, and RCA, to name a few. But the 
media of the theatre is where his work 
has really been acclaimed.
Oren Parker has designed sets for
by Elaine Smith
Critics write about the influence of the 
circus on his films, comparing his direc
tion with that of a ringmaster. In The 
Clowns, Federico Fellini seems to fill that 
role a little moie literally than usual with 
a lovely bit of nostalgia, a king of wistful 
longing for the fantasy world of youth.
As a younster, Fellini sometimes found 
clowns less than funny. At other times, he 
said they "were an apparition of my child
hood, a prophesy, the anticipation of a 
vocation. Admittedly, The Gowns is a 
semi-autobiographical study in three parts. 
In the first section Fellini recalls the
clowns and circusses of his childhood, his 
infatuation with their magical world. Fol
lowing this he interviews some of the har
lequin greats who were still alive in 1971 
when the film was made. Lastly, he stages 
. an elaborate mock funeral for the clown 
Auguste. Auguste symbolizes the eternal 
tramp of the clown genre, a Charlie 
Chaplin in a three-ring circus tent.
Not only does Fellini examine the world 
of make-believe, but he also looks at 
current society. He focuses on the real-life 
clowns around us everyday. Perhaps the 
best aspect of this film is that Fellini helps 
us to realize that there is a little bit of 
a clown of each of us.
',o0'C'^oVoteoAey*etS
ce* KAo^e\Ne\'9 ae< SC'ec
t"gLa<sW,'r'L ReV' ^CO^,r.^ecMe
tc0^?0C>ev 
OP0*
,eO<cVv
opP
tttfOViQivNr!
*0QVJ'OpP'
The craftsman as artist
CBS-TV, Pittsburghs CLO and Ann 
Arbor Repertory Theatre along with many 
others, including a pre-broadway produc
tion of The Interview.
The Hewlett Gallery showing will ex
hibit such works as those for Adding 
Machine, The Devils, The Great Gatsby, 
and designs from several industrial shows. 
Its an artistic as well as informative show
ing. Mr. Parker will retire this year after 
having served and enlightened students 
and fellow faculty alike for many years.
by John Goodman
If you can't make a living as a sculptor 
you can always be a barber. At least that's 
how Connie Stromberg feels. She and 
Catherine Olsen have a show opening 
tonight at the Gallery, and while you 
won't see any haircuts on exhibit, you will 
see how everyday problems reach artistic 
solutions.
For Connie, cutting hair is just another 
fonn of sculture; an aesthetic modeling of 
form. Taking this attitude, many aspects 
of our lives can be viewed as art, or maybe 
craft. But there is no clear distinction be
tween the two, although those allied with 
either side are usually quite sure of which 
field they're in, and scorn the tendencies of 
the other. Artists see crafts as dull and 
unimaginative, crafts people see art as 
frivolous and inconsequential.
"That's unfortunately true," says 
Connie, "but I see crafts techniques having 
g'reat potential for artistis, and I think 
artistic attitudes are helpful for crafts 
people too"
Connie is a sculture major, but she spent 
last year studying in Boston University's 
Program in Artisanny. Consequently, she is 
aware of the advantages of a dual familia
rity. Her latest sculpture utilizes a veneer 
technique from the domain of wood
working while her functional woodwork
has the grace and fluidity of sculpture.
Catherine likewise crosses lines of art 
and craft. Some of her work in ceramics 
could be considered functional, but the 
pieces are nonetheless artistically formed. 
Other pieces are made clearly sculptural by 
the addition of elements that prevent 
normal use and call attention to the aes
thetic form.
Catherine will also be showing her 
recent work in hand-made papers. Papermaking, once a solely functional preoccu
pation, is one of the newest and fastest 
growing artforms. It is a basically simple 
process that lends itself to experimenta
tion, as any fiber, including oatmeal or 
celery, can be added to the basic cotton 
to make paper. Other materials, such as 
rope, coffee, or chicken wire, may be in
cluded in the surface of the paper, or the 
paper may be formed in relief, or arranged 
as a construction.
The artistic enhancement of the 
common place gives this show a connection 
to the real world and encourages a greater 
appreciation of artist potential applications. 
The care lavished on otherwise ordinary 
objects bridges the gap which often exists 
between art and craft, suggesting that a 
careful craftperson is in fact an artist, and 
that an artist can be successful craftsperson 
as well.
lllltllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiliiiiiil^
Great Moments in the history of hoir
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers, insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
=HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
10.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10 7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
IMfTwccnmoig
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25.00
Mo -1 
Appointments
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIUIItllUIUIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIUI
S
lining

---------------------------------------------------

February 21,1978-TAR TAN-page 17
IPF to present Princess Grace
Her Highness Princess Grace of Monaco 
will make her first appearance on the 
American stage in 26 years when she comes 
to Pittsburghs Carnegie Music Hall Feb
ruary 26 and 27, 1978, under the aus
pices of the International Poetry Forum.
Scheduled to appear in a special poetry 
recital with Richard Pasco of the Royal 
Shakespeare Company, Princess Grace 
has entitled her program Birds, Beasts and 
Flowers, a tribute to the opening of 
the global celebration of the International 
Wildlife Year.
Invited to Pittsburgh by Dr. Samual 
it Iazo, founder and director of the Inter
national Poetry Forum, Princess Grace will 
follow her Pittsburgh premiere appearance 
with presentations at the Tyrone Guthrie 
Theater in Minneapolis on February 28, 
the Academy of Music in Philadelphia on 
March 2, the Hartke Theater of Catholic 
University in Washington, D.C., on March
3 and 4, the McCarter Theater at Princeton 
^ University on March 6.
Dr. Hazo first contacted Princess Grace 
in late 1976 after noting that she had ap
peared at the Edinburgh International Festival in a poetry recital entitled The Amer
ican Heritage with Richard Pasco and 
Richard Kiley. He invited her to come to 
the International Poetry Forum and pre
sent a similar program, and she agreed. 
Once the format for the American pro
gram was determined and a date set for her 
Pittsburgh appearance, Mr. Arthur Cantor 
of New York arranged the subsequent fivecity tour.
I spoke to Princess Grace just before 
her appearance at Stratford-on-Avon in a 
poetic tribute to William Shakespeare, and 
shes looking forward with pleasure to her 
appearance in Pittsburgh, Dr. Hazo ex
plained. Some members of her family will 
be present, and we are sending personal 
invitations to Cary Grant, Frank Sinatra, 
William Holden, Raymond Massey and 
Jimmy Stewart, all of whom appeared with 
her, to be our guests at the premiere.
Founded in 1966 under a grant from 
the A.W. Mellon Educational and Charit
able Trust and sponsored by the Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh, the International 
Poetry Forum has brought to Pittsburgh 
audiences over the past 12 years more than 
400 poets and their poetry. Central to the
entire endeavor is Samuel Hazos own 
premise that poetry is ultimately oral art
and that there is no better way of presenting poetry than to do so aloud to an aud
ience. An acclaimed poet in his own right 
and a faculty member at Duquesne Uni
versity, Dr. Hazo, nominated for the Nattional Book Award in 1973, is the author 
of seven books of poetry, several critical
studies, and a recent novel, The Very Fall 
of the Sun, which is scheduled to be made 
into a motion picture.
Tickets for the Princess Grace program 
Birds, Beasts and Flowers are now avail
able at the offices of the International 
Poetry Forum, 4400 Forbes Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. For in
formation call 621-9893.
Pennsylvania Ballet 
returns to Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania Ballet, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council in performance 
at Heinz Hall March 7 and 8, will present, 
each night, the Pittsburgh premiere of 
Signatures, a new work created for the 
company by the Ballets Artistic Director 
Benjamin Harkarvy, with a score composed 
by Music Director, Maurice Kaplow. 
The program on the 7th will also feature 
Jerome Robbins Interplay and Balachines 
Symphony in C. On the 8th, the program 
will include Hans van Manens Grosse 
Fugue and Balanchines Divertimento 15.
I have made Signatures, a work about 
dance and dancers, with several thoughts
I
,
Dont get Lost In the Computer Career Maze...
START AT PRIME
If you think finding your way around the computer career maze has to be confusing, think 
smart.
If you think all computer companies offer the same challenges and opportunities, think 
twice.
And if you know theres a difference between a computer job and a computer career, think 
Prime.
Prime Computer is the fastest growing high-technology computer manufacturer in the 
world. We need bright, career-minded engineers who are ready to meet the challenges of 
today's technology and make original contributions for tomorrows computers.
Prime Computer will be here soon and if youd like to talk to us about a computer career, 
wed like to talk with you. In fact, if you find our interview sheets at the Placement Office are 
full, sign up anyway. Well make the time to meet with you. And youll talk with members of 
our engineering department wholl tell you about a computer career at Prime.
While you're signing up, take one of our brochures. It includes our answers to some 
questionssve think you should ask any college recruiter. And when you read the brochure 
you'll see what three graduates of the class of'77 have to say about why they came to Prime. 
Prime Computer. Think about us.
Interviewing March 14,1978
m\\E
PRIME Computer, Inc. 145 Pennsylvania Ave., Framingham, Mass. 01701 (617) 879-2960
in mind, said Mr. Harkarvy.
Beethovens Grosse Fugue was the ori
ginal inspiration for Hans van Manens 
critically acclaimed ballet. The ballet has 
no story, but the choreographed relation
ship between its four men and four women 
reflects and reacts to the tension, power, 
and somber majesty of the music that 
Stravinsky once called the most beau
tiful score in the music literature.
Symphony in C is considered one of 
George Balanchines masterpieces. 'Now 
a part of the international repertoire of 
classical dance, the ballet is set to music 
by Bizet.
Interplay was the second ballet created 
by the master choreographer Jerome Rob
bins in 1945 and is the first Robbins work 
in Pennsylvania Ballets repertoire.
Divertimento 15 is the newest Balan
chine work in Pennsylvania Ballets reper
toire. It has been described as Balanchines 
most elegant work in the pure classical 
style.
"Cosi Fan Tutte" 
set by 
Music Dept
Mozart's comic opera Cosi Fan Tutte 
vill be presented by the Carnegie-Mellon 
Jniversity Opera Theatre at 8 PM, Februuy 23 through February 25 in Alumni 
Concert Hall at the university's College of 
Fine Arts.
Guest stage director for the production 
s James Lucas, who last year staged 
Purcell's Dido and Aeneas and Bartok's 
Bluebeards Castle for the CMU Opera 
Theatre at the carpet warehouse on Pitts
burgh's South Side. The three perfor
mances, in English, will be conducted by 
Istvan Jaray, director of the CMU Phil
harmonic.
The lighthearted plot of Mozart's 1790 
opera centers on a wager by the two in
genuous Neopolitan military officers who 
seek to prove that their fiancees are excep
tions to the stereotype that women are 
fickle. The young officers. Ferrando and 
Guglielmo, will be played respectively by 
tenor Ulises Espaillat and baritone Timothy 
Dahlem. Mezzo-sopranos Phyllis Kubey 
and Pamela Green are both cast as Dorabella, Ferrando's fiancee, with soprano 
Judith Jenkins as Dorabella's sister, 
Fiordiligi. Bass-baritone Stephen Brock 
plays Don Alfonso, the cynical philosopher 
who initiates the bet; and sopranos Joette 
Salandro and Corine Salon are cast as his 
accomplice. Despina. All are graduate 
students majoring in opera.
Cosi is the third in a series of four pro
ductions to be presented this season by the 
CMU Opera Theatre. The final production 
will be A Little Night Music (April 13-15), 
directed by Barbara Karp, artistic director 
of the Pittsburgh Opera Company.
Tickets for Cosi Fan Tutte are $3.50 
for adults, $2.00 for students and can be 
obtained by calling the CMU box office. 
578-2407. Box office hours are 10 AM 
to 5 PM Monday through Friday.

---------------------------------------------------

The Civil Engineer Corps. Because you can 
build a career faster, building for the Navy
Whatever field of engineering or 
architecture youre now studying, 
youll soon be ready for a responsible 
position. Theres one place youre likely 
to find it faster than your classmates: 
in the Navys Civil Engineer Corps.
Youll join a select team of 
professionals that plan, design,
can help fulfill the requirements for 
registration as a Professional Engineer.
If youre now in your senior year, 
youre eligible to apply. And if youre 
working toward your Engineer-inTraining certificate, all the better. For 
more information, contact your local 
Navy Recruiter and ask for your Officer 
Recruiter. Or, call us toll-free anytime 
at 800-841-8000 (in Georgia, call 
800-342-5855).
Its your life. Lead it. 
Be a Naval Officer.
construct, and maintain housing 
complexes, roads, airfields, waterfront 
facilities, and utilities worldwide  not 
to mention desalination plants and 
undersea structures. For a CEC officer, 
its a big opportunity. To go places, and 
get places. To gain the experience that
LT. JACK REEVES
Sign Up For Interviews 13-16 March 
In the Placement Office
SDC BUGGY TONIGHT AT 7:00
The Student's Dormitory Council is having a buggy 
meeting tonight, February 21, at 7:00 PM in both the 
Morewood Piano Room and in the Donner Lounge. 
Come by and sign up. We want pushers and drivers 
(small) especially, but everyone is welcome. If you 
can't make it, call ext. 4388 and talk with Frank 
Worbs. Thanks.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS.MUSIC
The uarnegie-ivieiion l'no will present a 
chamber music concert on Sunday, Feb
ruary 26 at 8 PM in Skibo Ballroom on the 
Carnegie-Mellon University campus.
Tickets for the concert are $3.50. 
Reservations can be obtained by calling 
the CMU Box Office, 578-2407. Box 
^Office hours are 10 AM to 5 PM Monday 
through Friday. Student tickets are 
$2.00, sold only at the door.
All proceeds are for the CMU Music 
Department Scholarship Fund.
The Carnegie-Mellon Opera Theatre Com
pany will be presenting Mozarts comic 
opera Cosi Fan Tutte at 8 PM, February 23 
through February 25. Tickets can be obitained by students for $2.00 at the CMU 
box office in the building of Fine Arts.
CINEMA
AB will show Federico Fellinis movie, 
The Clowns, February 23 at 6,8, and 10 
PM in DH2210. Admission is .75 with ID
AB will present Cinderella, an X rated 
film, February 24 at 6,8,10, and 12 mid
night. Admission is $1.00 with ID.
SDC will present the movie The Last De
tail Saturday, February 25 in DH 2210. 
Times of showings are 6, 8:30, and 11 PM. 
The movie is free to the campus com
munity.
The film, A Member of the Wedding, star
ring Julie Harris, Ethel Waters and Brandon 
de Wilde will be shown at the Kresege 
Theatre, Carlow College, on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 21st. The movie is sponsored by The 
Womens Studies Program and is free and 
open to the public.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie will open 
for nine performances February 24 at 
McKeesport Little Theatre. The show runs 
February 24-26, March 3-5 and 10-12. 
Curtain times are 8:30 PM, 7:30 Sundays. 
For reservations, please call 673-1100.
The Chatham Film Society will present 
The Last Tycoon and The Great Gatsby 
on Saturday, February 25 at 7 PM and 
9:30 PM, in the Eddy Theater. Admission' 
for one or both shows is $1.50.THEATRE
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
Mother Courage by Bertolt Brecht, trans
lated and directed by Bill Royston, Fridays 
through Sundays until February 26, at 
8:30 PM. Seating is limited and reservvations should be made will in advance by 
calling 621-2876.
The Pennsylvania Repertory Theare pre
sents Uma-Me-Dea a Woman Quest Feb
ruary 24, 25, 26 and March 3, 4, 5 at 8:30 
PM at the Lion Walk Performing Arts Cen
ter, 420 N. Craig Street in Oakland.
It is an original work developed by the 
Pennsylvania Repertory Theatre company. 
There will be a $2.00 donation at the door. 
For reservations and further information 
call 683-3222.
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance and the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley performed in repertory with Medal 
of Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed 
by Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny The
ater on the Northside until March 5. 
Ticket information is available by calling 
323-1099.
On February 23, 24, and 25th, Community 
College of Allegheny County, South Cam
pus Performing Arts Department will 
Present Joseph Kesslring's classic comedy 
Arsenic and Old Lace. The curtain is at
8 PM; tickets are $2 for general admission
and $1 to students, staff and faculty. 
Tickets will go on sale February 13 in the 
Business Office, D-319. Box office hours 
are 9 AM to 4 PM. For reservations, rail 
469-1100, Extension 253.
WRCT
WRCT presents its News Magazine on Sun
days from 8:00 to 9:00 PM.
The Pennsylvania Ballet will be performing 
at Heinz Hall on larch 7 and 8. Call the 
box office, 231-5000, for further informa
tion.
ART
The Treasure Room , Museum of Art, Car
negie Institute currently has an exhibition 
In the Classic Spirit. This exhibit will be 
on display through the Spring.
It features a variety of objects from the 
Museums permanent and private collec
tions and is composed of ancient and Ren
aissance bronze and 18th century por
celains, enamels, and silver.
An exhibition of new and recent drawings 
by Marisol will be held at the Jennie King 
Mellon Art Gallery until March 5th. The 
gallery hours are Tuesday thru Sunday 
from 2 to 5 PM and Fridays from 7 to
9 PM.
Tht Movie fir the 
Head Set
"Bozzatto outdoes Disney 
A Neo-Fantasia" ------
A charming entertainment Bozzettos sole intent is to let his artists imagination run free to the sound ot music. -ja*wo < <*i Allegro Non Troppo' represents the work of one of the world's major talents in the field of animation. Witty, inventive."
'A gorgeous send-up of 'Fantasia' Bozzetto s use of Bolero is mind-blowing."
Chafles CNmpl.n I A Ilf
Allegro Non Troppo
td movie) 8
MISC.
ABs TGIF committee in connection with 
Food Service plans an evening out for 
March 3rd. See Gone With the Wind, then 
come to the Grill for their half-price food 
specials from 12 midnight to 3 AM. You 
can listen or dance to the jazz sounds of 
Gibraltar with featured acts by mimer Nat 
Rich and magician Jon Brunelle.
GIRLS . . . ARE YOU LOOKING FOR Jl SUMMER 
COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants are now being 
considered for the 1971 camp season. Must be able 
to teach one of the foUomr Aits A Crafts, Aits A 
Crafts Director, Daacmt Theatre Director, Piano Ac
companist and singing. Tennis, Trampoline, Gym
nastics, Photography, Cheerfeading, Scouting and 
Nature Stody, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, Boating, 
Canoeing and Water Sluing hntrector.
Writ* L *Mfjc*, 138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 1S22S.
Amy ROIC.Now can take itz^ears,toain
If you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you may not have missed out. Because of the Army ROTC Two-Year program. 
And altogether, youll earn a total of about $2,900 to help you through your last two years of college. Then youll earn a commission as an officer at the same time you earn a college degree.
You have the option of taking one of several programs designed to prepare you for Advanced ROTC.
1. Basic Camp - a special six week summer camp. Youll be well paid for it.
Camp dates:30MayJuly78 19 June27 July 78 
17 July-24 Aug 78
IArmy ROTC
CMU, Pgh., PA 15213
Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.
Ms.Mr..
Address.
City____
State__
.County.
Zip,.Phone.
College Attending. 
Graduation Date_
m The Annj ROTC Two-Year Program
2. Special Summer Program right here in the Pittsburgh area.
Program A Program B10 July-29 July 78 18 Aug. - 23 Aug 78
3. Special Summer Program at Ft. Indiantown Gap, PA.
Program A 
Program B7 May -13 May 78 14 May - 20 May 78

---------------------------------------------------

page 20- TARTAN-February 21,1978
^iiiauiimmiiiaiiiiiHniiiaiiiiinHiiiianHiiHHitcjitiHiiiifiiiaiiiiiiitimaimiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiimaiiiiiiiiiiiiiqg
PREPARE FOR:MCA!  DAT * LSAT  GMAT I GRE  OCAT  VAT ? SAT
NMB I, II. Ill * ECFMG * FLEX * VQE
NATL DENTAL BOARDS  NURSING BOARDS
Flexible Program* A Hours
There IS a difference!!!
For Information Please Call:
661-2772 
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.1
M
-HN
Chess Corner
CHESS CORNER 
by Joseph Bartnicki
Author: Standard test of your ability to 
use the Bishop, Knight and King as a cohe
sive unit.
White is to play and must mate within 
50 moves or else Black can call the game a 
draw.
Ifyouhaveuq stint,
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782
Centers in Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
niiuS
SUMMER JOBS
Emma Kaufmann Camp of Pittsburgh's Jewish Community Center 
is looking for staff to work at our beautiful resident summer camp, 
located on Cheat lake near Morgantown, West Virginia.
The following jobs are available:
POSITIONS
General Counselor
Specialists & Assistants
NURSE'S ASSISTANTS
LAKEFRONT
NATURE CRAFTS
WHITE WATER SPECIALISTS
MAINTENANCE
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
Must like children, completed 
one year of college.
Must be able to teach compre
hensively in a given area.
DRAMA
ARTS & CRAFTS 
STABLES (Riding English) 
TRIPPERS
KITCHEN WORKERS
  m
L&I
For additional information or applications, call Jed Zidell, 621- 
6500 or write Emma Kaufmann Camp, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., Pit
tsburgh, PA 15213.J
3IVW  NSI 
INM3 N-H PI 
iH->i9>i-a ei
^^301 II
1,1978uVuV
N-^Sa-N6 
iaoi90-^8 
zst' ea L 
eaoi  9 ji
31VW N-8 6I 
M3 9H-N81
1^->19^-N9lnm8a-a si 
iim80iM 
3tf-:M9aoi ei in-x M3 -a zi 
iaoi9a-a n 
i-:m toi-a oi 
ia->isa-N6
IDOI M3 9N-8 8 
l)T)i90-)IZ. 
lOi 9^iOI 9 
DOI M3 -NS 
ia-N   p JI
31 VW 93-N 0Z 
zv-yi'v N-a 61 
^-^a-^8i
ZH-y 3N 1 
iN-^rsa-a 9i 
ciioi9^-a si 
IN-3 OI PI 
ztt-y'L'x-y. ei 
ia-)i9oi zi 
IOI M3 S-N II 
c3-)I9N-N 01
I->lSN-a 6
ZQ X 9^-a 8
ea^e-a u
-N 9 
ZQ-y 9^01 S 
IO SS'N P
>i-a z 
ia-)i sa-a z 
IN-'S M3 a-N i 
HHMSNV
All programs at 
8:00 pm Wherrett Room, Skibo
A series of 6 Seminars designed to explore assessment and change in various areas 
of contemporary society.
LECTURE 1 Tuesday, February 28 "Theatre and Theatricality"
2 Wednesday, March 1 "Art and Reality"
3 Thursday, March 2
4 Tuesday, March 7
5 Wednesday, March 8
6 Thursday, March 9
Coming to Terms: The New Sculpture"
'2 Poets: Contemporary Poetry in America
Contemporary Art in Western Pa: 
Rejuvenation or Decline"
Interactions Between Art and Science
Program It sponsored by Campus Program Planning
* Co-sponsored by Carnegie-Mellon University Press
Presenting on March 3rd, a TGIF production in the grill from 12-3 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

621-7388
Are we glad you're here!
featuring Jazz, Mime, Magic plus % price on your Tartan food favorites.
J: -Funded by Activities Fee and Food ServiceIron City
 Schlitz
 Bud
 Koehler
 Strohs
 Genesee
 Rolling Rock
 Hop 'n Gator
 Schlitz Malt
 Ballantine Ale
 Rheingold
 Miller Light
 Michelob
 Pabst
 Miller
 Colt 45
 Genesee Cream Ale
 Busch
 Duke
 Schmidts
 Champale
A SPEND NEXT
v O SEMESTER ABROAD
Academic programs available in:
S^A  FLORENCE  LONDON
ol m N0Cngi-N0 m CniNCMUvis
V  MADRID  MEXICO
* Apply now for Fall 1978
* Variety of courses offered
* No language background required
* Financial Aid available
* Summer programs available in England, Italy, 
Israel, Switzerland, Austria, East Africa and 
The Netherlands
For more information and application, write:
JVRACUSE UfllVERJITVDivision Th efutrffueTffe oMwdMfimS ABROAD335 Comstock Avenue TelephoneSyracuse New Vork 13210 (315)423 3471
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM 
Quarts  Mugs  Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Specialty Items: FRESM CUT FRENCH FRIES p  PIZZA SERVED TIL 3 AM
Hot DogsChoice of 12 Different Condiments
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
HOT D06 SHOPS, INC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Sophomores Larry Hufnagel and Marino 'Flip' De Filippo, along with 
freshmen Joe Belechak and Dave Hoffmeister, have seen a lot of playing 
time this season and have performed superbly. These photographs merely 
represent the flavor of what these guys dish out every game. Hufnagel 
has been a regular starter while 'Flip' and Belechak have shared starting 
duties. With the senior starters Harvey, Harper and Chambers soon to be 
gone, these four appear to be the core of the Tartan squad next season. 
CMU's success in basketball next season? The onus is on these players.
This series of photo essays on the basketball team concludes next week.
Photo essay prepared by Rarnanan

---------------------------------------------------

Ramarurn
page?2^XARIAN-Feijruary 21, 1978 ,a
CMU swimmers graduating this year are (left to right) Neal Kushner, Pete Dickey, and John Rossi.
sn SKI 
CANADA
MONTSKI TOUR MCLUKS: 
 /URTARE VIA NORDAP 
TRANSFERS*179
FRLTO
SUN.TREMBIANT ACCOMMODATIONS *275*
MniOMMMUWBITUI6.M|M(FAsntHMes (hta bmd m 4M. wnpi)
Call for details621-0799PEOPLES
TRAVEL
AGENCY1M13
W&J edges CMU women
by Perry Colosimo
I've got some good news and some bad 
news. (oh. you've heard this one before? 
Well listen anyway). First, the bad news; 
the women's basketball team lost to W&J 
last Wednesday by the score of 41-40. 
Now the good news: they provided the
fans with an intense and exciting display 
of comeback-basketball.
Again CMU's defense was effective, 
limiting W&J to 21 points in the first half. 
There was little scoring throughout the 
first five minutes of the game, and only 2 
points were scored during that time. With 
the score 19-12, and with 3:00 minutes to 
go before the half. CMU put on an impres
sive scoring barrage to pull to with one 
point at the half, 21-20.
The second half was a Xeroxed copy of 
the first, with W&J again opening up an 11 
point lead. CMU couldnt contain W&J's 
top scorer, Kathy Elsiminger, who popped 
in 28 points. However, the Tartans coun
tered with dieir Ms. consistents, Terry 
Preskar and Barb Owens. Preskar was un
stoppable at the top of the key sinking 
9 baskets for a team high of 18 points. 
Barb Owens once again provided the re
bounding power for CMU to go along 
with her 12 points.
With 1:06 left in the game, CMU pulled 
to within 3 points of W&J (41-38), and a 
time-out was called. Play resumed and 
Davina Davies promptly cut the lead to 
one point. A few debatable calls by the 
referees had die CMU bench and fans 
howling in amazement and with 9 seconds 
remaining in the game, CMUs Brandi 
Jackson and W&Js Nancy Sutter faced 
each other for a jump ball on the Tartans 
<*nd of the court. Jackson outleaped Sutter
and tipped die ball back to the ever
present Terry Preskar at the top of the key. 
Preskar neglected to shoot and passed to 
Gale Gammerdinger who fed the ball inside 
to Barb Owens along the left baseline. 
With defenders clinging to her. Owens 
had the ball tipped out of bounds and the 
clock showed 0:01 seconds remaining. 
CMU sent up a prayer which, unfortunate
ly. fell short at the buzzer.
Well, it was just one of those days for 
the Tartans. Their next opponent is CSC 
whom they will host at 6:00 tomorrow 
evening.
CMU
Davies
Preskar
Jackson
Drake
Gammerdinger
Baxter
Goedicke
Fair
Owens
Cooper
Patrick
Anderson
Ward
OLeary
Harsh man
Fallon
Kuhn
Haywood
Hazenstad
Elsiminger
Sutter
W&J
4
18
2
0
0
4
0
0
12
0
0
C
0
0
0
0
5
3
0
28
5
A Best Seller . . . the television event of 1977 ... and a celebrated movie from Films Incorporated.
2 SHOWINGS EACH DAY: 11:30 & 12:30. Wherret Room, Skibo
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
FREE - Bring your lunch and a friend.
Monday, February 20Chapter 1 - THE AFRICAN
The year is 1750 and in West Africa the villagers of Juffere rejoice at the birth of 
a baby to Omoro Kinte and his wife Bintaa baby named Kunta whose destiny 
lies in America. Fifteen years later Kunta and his friends are being inducted into 
manhoodlearning the skills of the Mandinka warrior. And on the high seas the 
slaveship Lord Ligonier, its hold outfitted with wrist shakles, neck rings, and 
thumbscrews, nears the African shore.
Wednesday, February 22Chapter 2 - THE AFRICAN (Cont.)
Kunta completes the rites of manhood and once again the villagers rejoice. But 
their joy is short-lived. Seeking wood in the jungle to make a drum, Junta is cap
tured by white slavers, branded and chained in the hold of the Lord Ligonier, soon 
on its way with its human cargo to Annapolis, Maryland. Ravaged by dysentery, 
seasickness, festering sores, the slaves have one flickering hopemutiny.
Thursday. February 23-Chapter 3 - THE SLAVE
Taken on deck, the slaves wait for a moment when the crew s attention is distrac
ted. The signal is given. Junta struggles for the key to the shackles and the 
mutiny begins. The bloody confrontation ends, the slave rebellion put down. Sep
tember 29, 1967, the Lord Ligonier anchors at Annapolis. Ninety-eight of the 1 40 
captives have survived. At the slave auction a defiant Kunta is bought by John 
Reynolds and given the name of "Toby," a name Kunta refuses to acknow
ledge.
Tuesday, February 28 Chapter 4 - THE SLAVE (Cont)
En route to his tobacco plantation in Spotsylvania County, Virginia, Massah 
Reynolds places an older slave, Fiddler, in charge of the wild African. Fiddler 
begins training Kunta immediately, soon coming to admire his rebellious young 
pupil. Kunta contrives an escape, but hampered by leg chains he is easily recap
tured by overseer Ames. An almost fatal beating ends when Kunta surrenders to 
the inevitable, whispering "Toby," Fiddler, carrying for Kunta s wounds, reminds 
him that he will always be Kunta no matter what the white man calls him.

---------------------------------------------------

February 21.1978-T ART ANpage 23
This week in Intramural Sports
by Frank Pugliano
The Intramural Department announced 
five new sports competitions this week. 
Registration forms are due today, Tuesday, 
 the 21st, for call-pool (individual), co-rec 
badminton, foulshooting, co-rec table 
tennis, and individual backgammon. The 
forms are due in the intramural office by 
4:30 PM. Schedules for call pool, water 
basketball, bridge, and table tennis(singles 
and doubles) are finished and can be pick
ed up in the Intramural office.
6 I.M. rifle needs a league commissioner; 
the entry date is March 7. If youre inter
ested, get in touch with Mr. Birdy in his 
office.
Wrestlers! Check the I.M. bulletin 
board for scheduled practice sessions. 
The I.M. wrestling tournament will be held 
March 3 and 4 in Thistle Hall. The Com0 missioner of the toumment is Mark 
Poland of Kappa Sigma.
The Intramural swimming meet will be 
held Tuesday, March 14, at 4:30PM in the 
pool. Post your entries, the Commissioner 
is J ohn Rossi.
Enter yourself or get together a team 
P to participate in the Intramural sports here 
at CMU. Have fun, exercise, lose fatcom
pete!
Special Announcement:
There is an I.M. Board meeting today, 
February 21, at 4:30PM in the I.M. office, 
room 104 in the Gym.
The Nose Knows: 
I.M. Basketball
ATO is once again a top contender in 
dieMajor Basketball League. They are led 
by Bill OMara, a former MVP in the intra
mural league; Don Stoebe, Frank Massaro, 
Mark Prazer, and John Hamm. They are a 
very quick team whose tough defense 
makes up for their lack of height. ATO has 
good bench that Coach Scott West uses 
frequently. Football MVP Pete Antimarino 
John Beilich, and Dave Neimeyer help out 
under the boards while Perry Colosimo, 
Brian Renner, and Bob Gatehouse substitue for the ball handlers. OMara and 
Hamm are the teams leading scorers while 
Massaro and Stoebe do most of the 
rebounding.
Despite two close losses on the small 
courts, ATO is looking to the playoffs and 
a chance to cut loose on the full court.
The Intermediate League leaders are, in 
the Jabbar Division, the Bananas, (4-0), 
and, in the Walton Division, Boves Bellies 
(4-0) and C-MAP Showstoppers(4-0). In 
the Dawkins Division, Sigma Nu (6-0) 
leads, and in the Barry Division, the Animals(5-0) and the Cretins (4-0) are the top
teams. The Gervin Division leader is After 
Birth Scum (4-0).
The Minor League leaders are the Lobsters(4-l), the Touring Machine (4-0), 
Mech. E. Grads. (5-0), Nads-B (4-0), and 
the Placebo Syndrome (2-1).
The Commissioners for the basketball 
leagues are Bob Firm and Don Bergmann 
of 4-E. The playoffs procedures and dates 
will be announced soon.
HAVLICEK
Celtics
The Other Ones 
GSIA-Bucks 
Beta-A 
SAE-A 
Pika-A
ERVJNG
Nerd-Knockers 
ATO-A 
Reality II 
Exp.(MDBC) 
Coaches All-Stars 
Sex Pistols 
All-Stars
W
5
5
5
4
4
1
W
6
6
4
4
2
0
0
CMU Hockey Club members graduating this year are (left to right) Doug Johnston, Bill Miller, Jack 
Arturo, Steve Fuchs, and Tom Grimm.
Birdy to appear on Evening Magazine
Most sane people shy away from a job 
whose inherent hazards include broken and 
dislocated limbs, hurled bottles and cans 
and having 50,000 screaming people ques
tion your parentage. However, Earl J. 
Birdy, CMUs intramural athletics director, 
does pursue a career in an area with risks 
such as these.
In case you dont know, Mr. Birdy is a 
veteran college football official of 27 years.
The year 1950 marked the start of his 
officiating career when he began working 
high school games while attending Slippery 
Rock State College. Mr. Birdy quickly
rose in officiating circles and in 1960 he 
became eligible to officiate Division I 
college games.
Since then he has become one of a 
group of 18 officials who have been 
selected to work all Pitt, Penn State, 
and WVU games. While working for these 
schools, his officiating has taken him all 
over the eastern United States.
Mr. Birdy has recently been interviewed 
by KDKA-TVs Evening Magazine but no 
date has been set for airing. Watch your 
TV Guide for the date and be sure to catch 
Camegie-Mellons own Earl J. Birdy.
SDCFUNDS
This is to clarify SDC's policy toward party funds.
1) All petitions for party funds, (this means every page) must say where the party 
is being held and must state that a dorm resident may only use his allocation of 
$ .75 once a semester.
2) Our policy requires all petitions to be submitted to a member of the executive 
board three days prior to the party. Funds are allocated after the party and after 
the receipts for the party are turned in.
Anyone having questions may contact an SDC rep for clarification.
t ? T,*T
Krafchek

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Cleveland schools drop CMU
by Bob Firm
If you asked Camegie-Mellon basket
ball coach Dave Maloney where he was 
going on his summer vacation, you could 
be almost certain that it wouldnt be 
Cleveland, Ohio because the Tartans were 
defeated twice in a row at the Lake Erie 
town. CMU was nipped down the stretch 
after they made a tremendous comeback 
against John Carroll, 71-67, and were 
rocked at Case Western Reserve, 83-66.
The two stunning losses dropped the 
Tartans out of first place in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference behind league leader 
Bethany and forces CMU into must win 
situations against Thiel and Bethany to 
stay alive in the PAC battle.
At John Carroll, a cold shooting spell 
at the outset of the second half did the 
Tartans in. After a blazing first half tie 
of 41 all which saw 10 tied scores and 10 
lead changes, the Blue Streaks continued 
on their hot shooting (66% in the first 
half) while CMU went frigid.
From 18:47 when Les Harper canned 
a jumper until Greg Chambers converted 
two free throws at the 12:01 mark, CMU 
did not score. This was a complete rever
sal of the Tartans first 20 minutes of play. 
Led by Harpers 7 for 10 from the field 
and George Harveys 6 for 10, Tech shot 
an outstanding 56% in the first stanza.
Down 63-51 with under eight minutes 
remaining, the Tartans made a feverish 
someback. Mariano DeFilippo, Joe Belechak, Chambers, and Harvey hit in rapid 
succession after CMU applied some pres
sure defense to narrow the gap to four.
John Carrolls captain Jim Skerl drove 
inside for a three point play and Saul Cyvas 
hit a free throw to give the Blue Streaks a 
67-59 advantage with only four minutes 
left. The Tartans then mounted another 
spurt behind Harper. The 6-6 pivotman, 
who pulled out CMUs overtime victory at 
John Carroll last year, hit three jumpers in 
a row. The third tied the game at the 2:09 
mark, 67-67.
John Carroll worked to get a high per
centage shot against CMUs man-to-man 
defense. Suddenly, Harper was again on 
the scene for the Tartans as he stole the 
ball. However, his momentum was carrying 
him out of bounds and in trying to save the 
ball turned it back over to John Carroll.
The Blue Streaks found Cyvas alone un
der and took a 69-67 lead with 1:20 left. 
DeFilippos jumper from 18 was no good 
in a tying attempt, but Belechak tied up 
Cyvas for the rebound and a jump ball.
John Carroll controlled the tip and Har
vey immediately fouled the Blue Streaks 
Bob Kehoe. He missed on the 1-1 situation 
and Belechak pulled down the big Tartan 
rebound.
CMU was again foiled in a tying effort 
as Belechaks shot from the wing was no 
good. John Carrolls Mike English rebound
ed and was fouled by Belechak with only 
30 seconds left. He nailed both charity 
shots to insure the 71-67 upset.
Harper led the scoring parade for CMU 
with 22 points. Harvey backed him with 18 
and Chambers added 10.
Cyvas led four Blue Streak double figure 
scorers with 21 points. Skerl hit for 17, 
Chuck Pap came off the bench to score 16 
and English finished with 12.
Saturday night against Case, CMU never
really got untracked and a result turned in 
probably their poorest performance of the 
season. Layups were missed, loose balls 
werent grabbed, and except for the fast 
break, no offense was generated.
Cases balanced attack saw all five start
ers hit in double figures proved too much 
to handle. Mark Termini, the PACs leading 
scorer, led all scorers for the evening with 
22 points. Paul Shivers soft outside touch 
aided him to a 19 tally performance. Rick 
Vickery hit for 18 and played some out
standing defense. He held Harvey to six 
points, the lowest total in his CMU career. 
John Daugherty added 14 besides rejecting 
six Tartan shots inside.
CMU could not generate any offense 
and as a result fell behind by as many as 
ten in the first half. Thejrwent to the lock
er room down 42-34.
The Tartans started the second half at 
Case as they had at John Carroll. CMU 
only scored two points in the first five min
utes of the second half and fell far behind.
CMUs comeback efforts were no where 
to be found against Case. The host Spar
tans then took advantage of Techs neces
sity to foul in order to try and get back 
into the game.
Case, the NCAA Division JII national 
leaders in team free throw percentage, used 
their specialty to perfection to keep the 
Tartans at bay. They hit on 19 of 21 from 
the charity stripe, many coming on 1-1 sit
uations late in the game. The foul shooting 
was responsible in balooning the point 
spread to the 83-66 final.
Harper again led the Tartans with 19 
points. He was backed by 13 from Bele
chak (all coming in the first half), 12 from 
Hufnagel, and 10 from Chambers. Harper,
Duquesne dukes CMU icers
by Ed Sullivan
Although the CMU fan contingent was 
dominating the stands, the Tartans icers 
werent able to do the same to their count
erparts and dropped a 12-3 decision to arch
rival Duquesne. The game was not without 
highspots for CMU despite the dismal final 
score.
The tone for the physical contest was set 
in the first minute of play as hard hitting 
defenseman Bill Miller planted a check on a 
Duke player who was digging for the puck 
and almost put him through the boards. Bill 
had many more of these crushers on the 
afternoon, where one or two is usually 
enough to make a players day.
Miller didnt have a lock on good hits, 
as Tom Grimm, Skip Wallace and Mark 
Jonnotti each in turn gave their version of 
mayhem. However, their old nemesis, not 
being able to clear the puck, cost the Tar
tans a second goal at 6:31. Ehiquesne put 
in a rebound and a slow roller, at 9:39 and 
10:39, before the Tartans were able to get 
on the board.
Grimm put in CMUs first tally at 13:20 
of the first period with the assist going to 
Jeff Reh. This averted a shut out and left 
the first period totals at Duquesne, 4 goals 
and 15 shots on^oal, and CMU, 1 goal and
3 shots.
The second period was very dismal from 
the Tartans point of view as the Tartans 
had 9 shots turned away by Duquesne goalie 
Eric Sutliff. Johnston was able to stop 6 
out oi 11 Duke blasts but the other five 
managed to slip by to run the score to 9-1 
in favor of Duquesne. The Tartans ran up
10 minutes in penalties in the period.
The Tartans were forced to put up with 
one more Duke goal at 1:51 of the third
.
Hufnagel and Belechak each grabbed eight 
boards and were keys in starting the fast 
break.
Camegie-Mellon, now 12-6 overall and 
9-3 in the PAC, faces two critical league 
foes this week. Tomorrow night the Tar
tans take on Thiel at Skibo Gym at 8:00 
PM. On Sunday afternoon at 3:00 PM, 
CMU meets Bethany in a PAC showdown 
for the championship. The encounter with 
the Bisons was rescheduled from Friday 
night. CMU must win both contests to re
tain their basketball crown.
CMU
PtsRebAssist
Harper2260
Harvey1814
Chambers1053
Hufnagel973
Belechak613
DeFilippo213
Hobart000
Hofmeister000
672116
John Carroll
PtsRebAssist
Cyvas21112
Skerl1744
Pap1636
English1222
Kehoe515
Deighan000
Wallis000
712119
CMU
PtsRebAssist
Hufnagel1281
Belechak1381
Harper1981
Harvey653
DeFilippo214
Chambers1021
Hofmeister200
Ward000
Hobart200
Stefanick010
663311
Case
PtsRebAssist
Vickery1881
Shivers1991
Daugherty14112
Termini2201
Gauthey1041
Wile000
Wilson000
83326
Doug Johnston may be thinking of better times as he watches action in the Duquesne end.
period before Reh managed to fire a shot 
by Sutliff at 2:03.
Again the Tartans scored at 7:24 as Joe 
Chaves knocked an airborne puck down in
to the net. The assist went to Dave Olisar.
The Tartans applied great pressure in the 
last two minutes and looked very good around the net, but the final tally still left 
them on the short end, 12-3.
Volleyball Club 
wins Geneva 
Invitational
The CMU Club Volleyball team stayed 
on top of the Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Volleyball Association in win
ing the Geneva Invitational last Saturday in 
Beaver Falls.
CMU took first place in its bracket with 
round-robbin wins over California State 
and Indiana. After gaining a bye into the 
semi-finals, CMU trounced Edinboro 15- 
10, 15-6. Cal State upset Slippery Rock to 
reach the finals.
In the tournament final, CMU crushed 
Cal State 15-6 in the first game, eased up 
and lost the second me, 16-14, and came 
on strong to blow out California, 15-4, in 
the deciding game. CMU II finished a 
disappointing last for the second straight 
week.
CMU travels to Slippery Rock Saturday 
to participate in another tournament.
