FORUMSPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Exhibit features works by London-based artists  B8Womens basketball defense sti?es opponents  A9Students shouldnt worry so much about ?nals  A7
thetartan.org
@thetartan
December 3, 2012
Volume 107, Issue 13
ALVIN MATHEW
Junior Staffwriter
Former Minister of Foreign 
Trade of Costa Rica Alberto 
Trejos presented a lecture 
about the World Trade Organization (WTO) last Friday at 
Hamburg Hall.
According to a university 
press release, Trejos was 
Costa Ricas lead negotiator at 
the WTO and negotiated Costa Ricas membership in the 
Central America Free Trade 
Agreement.
Drawing on his knowledge 
of the international trade, 
Trejos provided an innovative take on the issues facing 
the WTO and potential solutions to these problems. Instead of providing a classically 
American vantage point of the 
WTO, Trejos spoke from the 
perspective of Costa Rica, a 
?nancially weaker nation.
Because Costa Ricas ?-
nancial standing does not approach that of the European 
Union or the U.S., Trejos noted, his nation was different 
from successful countries in 
trade who do nothing where 
international negotiations are 
important to their strategy.
Trejos claimed that larger nations are able to bully 
smaller countries by offering 
deals that may help smaller 
nations in some minor ways, 
but are far from preferable.
By using such tactics, he 
said, larger countries are able 
to pressure smaller nations 
into accepting deals that they 
may not completely agree 
with, but are often forced to 
accept due to their low ?nancial status.
Speaking of Costa Rica, 
Trejos said, We cannot push 
control or lobby.... For us, 
negotiations are very important.
He stated that a major issue in the WTO is that high 
barriers, such as tariffs, are 
being used in order to negatively affect smaller countries. 
He felt that barriers should be 
kept low for exchange with 
other countries, because nations want to play by the same 
rules. Trejos also stated that 
the lack of organization in the 
WTO led to dif?culty in trading relations between countries. In order to ?x this issue, 
the former Minister of Foreign 
Trade proposed a more organized system with clearer 
laws for trade.
Matt Moses, an information security policy management Ph.D. student, was interested by the alternative 
system proposed, remarking 
that the lecture made him 
think a lot about mechanism 
design [and] unanimity. It 
was refreshing to see someone 
like him.
Trejos disapproved of how 
trading rounds used by nations are confronted with 
BRENT HEARD
Assistant News Editor
Jared Cohon, president of 
the university, discussed the 
presidential turnover and the 
status of Carnegie Mellons 
international campuses during one of his ?nal town hall 
meetings last Tuesday. 
The event was held in 
Rangos 2 and had approximately 80 attendees, a large 
increase from past years.
Students and faculty were 
invited to submit their questions ahead of time. Almost 
all of the questions pertained 
to the upcoming presidential 
transition.
In response, Cohon said, 
Im not involved in the 
search, but described how 
the presidential search committee reached out broadly 
to staff, faculty, students, 
alumni to ?nd the characteristics people thought the next 
president should have.
Cohon said that these responses were then used to 
create a job description for 
the next university president 
and was used to create the list 
of candidates, which has now 
been narrowed down to a few 
?nal selections. 
From there, staff, faculty, 
and students will be able to 
interview the candidates.
Cohons term as university 
president is set to expire in 
June, but the new president 
is scheduled to be selected by 
March, providing some overlap in leadership.
In addition to discussing 
the upcoming presidential 
transition, Cohon also spent 
time addressing questions on 
current plans for Carnegie 
Mellons growth and the state 
of satellite campuses.
Cohon said that the institutional master plan, which 
was recently approved by the 
city of Pittsburgh, was a very 
good one, an exciting one, 
adding, Weve acquired a lot 
of land. 
He said that while there 
were no concrete plans yet, 
a mix of academic and commercial buildings (such as 
the Collaborative Innovation 
Center) can be expected, 
with talk of a hotel or retail 
store being added.
The goal of these increased real estate acquisitions, Cohon explained, is to 
make the rectangle formed 
by Forbes Avenue, Morewood 
Avenue, Craig Street, and 
Fifth Avenue to be part of 
campus.
Cohon ?elded questions 
concerning the Morewood 
parking lot being turned into 
structured parking, acknowledging that the higher cost of 
a parking garage will have to 
be spread evenly across parking locations, being sure to 
emphasize that University 
parking operates on a breakeven system.
Yes, we know thats the 
site for Spring Carnival, Cohon said, adding, Im really 
glad the next president has to 
deal with that.
Cohon discussed Carnegie 
Mellons international programs, saying that, Qatar 
has already expanded this 
year with a new undergraduate biology program that 
the university has created in 
partnership with Cornell University. We never thought 
wed be teaching biology 
there, he said.
The university has almost 
reached the end of its 10-year 
agreement with Qatar, but it 
is set to renew if no changes 
are made.
Cohon moved on to mention successes with Carnegie 
Mellons California program 
and the Heinz Colleges Australian program which had 
originally faced demand issues, but thanks to creative 
and aggressive efforts is now 
doing well.
Addressing the campus in 
Rwanda, he said, Rwanda 
is off to a good start academically, but the neighborhood theyre in is ?aring up 
again, referring to con?ict 
in the bordering region of the 
Congo, which is embroiled in 
a con?ict with a Rwandanrelated rebel group.
Cohon insisted that the 
university was assured of 
the safety of its students and 
staff, of which there are 26 
outstanding masters students; all but two or three are 
Rwandan, with the others 
from Kenya.
The new graduate program in China and a pilot 
undergraduate engineering 
program in India were also 
brie?y discussed.
On the subject of Carnegie 
Mellons international involvement, assistant vice provost for undergraduate education, Stephanie Wallach, 
asked a question regarding 
the universitys reaction to 
Qatar supporting the terrorist group Hamas.
Cohon responded by giving a brief background on 
Qatars role in the Middle 
East, reassuring that it 
doesnt affect us directly unless we want it to.
We feel that the most important thing for that region 
is a Western-style education. 
We are part of the solution, 
he said.
LEAH PILEGGI
Special to The Tartan
With a new semester approaching, most Carnegie 
Mellon students are ?nalizing 
their schedules. For those students who still need one more 
class, foreign languages are a 
trend that seems to be increasingly worthwhile.
According to a Modern 
Language Association (MLA) 
enrollment survey, more than 
1.6 million undergraduates 
who attend American colleges and universities this year 
will take at least one foreign 
language class at some point 
in their college careers. That 
works out to a national average of 9 percent per university. Susan Polanski, the head 
of Carnegie Mellons modern 
languages department, said 
that at Carnegie Mellon, its 
52 percent.
According to the MLA, interest in language study has 
been steadily on the rise since 
the late 90s. Executive Director Rosemary G. Feal said in 
an MLA press release, Students increasingly see their 
futures taking place in a multilingual world, and they want 
language preparation to help 
them function in that world.
Which foreign languages 
are American undergraduates 
studying these days? While 70 
percent pick one of the three 
  
historically most popular languages  Spanish, French, or 
German  those who want to 
try something different will 
?nd a long list of languages to 
choose from. And that list is 
growing.
The study of Portuguese, 
in particular, is gaining popularity. According to Ana Paula 
Carvalho, the University of 
Pittsburghs Portuguese language coordinator, one out of 
two Latin Americans speaks 
Portuguese, as it has always 
been an important language. 
But now Brazil is the sixth 
largest economy in the world, 
which has led to more demand for Portuguese speakers in both business and 
international relations.
Carvalho has seen not just 
an increase in enrollment in 
Portuguese courses at Pitt 
(which now offers a minor in 
Portuguese), but also a broadening awareness of Brazilian 
culture, particularly music, 
dance, and food. Pitts Brazil 
Club  the Brazil Nuts  becomes more active each year, 
recently hosting an annual 
Brazil festival.
Last summer, Carvalho led 
a group of 14 Pitt undergraduates in a unique study-abroad 
program in Brazil.
Over six weeks, the students conducted research 
studies in Brazil. They didnt 
take classes. They set up interviews and used questionnaires, and then they ?nalized 
their research papers after 
they returned to Pittsburgh, 
Carvalho said. Students 
in the group were majoring in engineering, 
linguistics, and political 
science, and there was 
even one student 
from the dental 
school.
Carvalho said, 
Fourteen students 
were chosen out of 50 
applications, and all 
of their expenses were 
covered.
Another language 
that students choose 
to study is Mandarin 
Chinese. Enrollment has 
risen in U.S. universities from 
Foreign languages speak to students
Madelyn Glymour/News EditorSee LANGUAGE, A3
As his term ends, Cohon looks ahead
See COHON, A3
File photo by Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Jared Cohon answers questions about the presidential search. 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Staffwriter
Jeannette Wing, head of 
Carnegie Mellons computer 
science department since 
2004, announced that she is 
leaving the university in January to take a job as the head 
of Microsofts international 
research labs.
Wing, a graduate of the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT), has been 
working at Carnegie Mellon 
for the past 27 years. She began her college career at MIT 
as an electrical engineering 
major; Wing said she only became interested in the ?eld of 
computer science when she 
took a required course in the 
subject and fell in love with 
it.
According to her page on 
the computer science department website, Wings general 
research interests are in the 
areas of trustworthy computing, speci?cation and veri?cation, concurrent and distributed systems, programming 
languages, and software engineering. She has served in a 
number of roles since coming 
to Carnegie Mellon, including 
associate dean of academic 
affairs and head of the computer science Ph.D. program.
Wing said that as the head 
of the computer science department, she oversees all of 
education and research the 
departments faculty and students participate in.
Certainly I help manage the education programs, 
the Ph.D. program; [I] help 
manage the undergraduate 
program, she said. As far as 
the research goes, its really 
helping to guide the faculty in 
looking out for new research 
directions and hunting opportunities, so basically I stay in 
the background and cheer the 
faculty on and support them 
in any way I can.
According to Randy Bryant, the dean of the School of 
Computer Science, Microsoft 
has been wooing [Wing] on 
and off for all this time, and 
I guess this time they ?nally 
convinced her to go. Bryant has known Wing for over 
30 years; they were graduate 
students together at MIT and, 
after graduating, arrived at 
Carnegie Mellon within a year 
of each other.
Bryant praised Wing for 
her leadership ability within 
the computer science department: Her ?rst impression 
she gives of you is shes just 
full of energy and excitement. 
She just gets everyone ?red 
up, and everyone really believes in her.
Bryant also highlighted 
Wings positive in?uence as 
the head of the computer science department.
CMU CS professor spreads her wings
Courtesy of Jeannette Wing
Jeannette Wing, the head of Carnegie Mellons computer science 
department, is leaving the university after 27 years.
Trejos discusses inequalities of trade
See WING, A2
See TREJOS, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  December 3, 2012
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
Chemical engineering 
seniors at Carnegie Mellon 
are creating blueprints for a 
plan to transform valuable 
hydrocarbons from the gas in 
Marcellus shale deposits into 
chemicals and polymers.
Chemical engineering 
professors Ignacio Grossmann and Jeff Siirola will 
lead teams of four and ?ve 
students in ?nding a new 
source for chemical production. The students will convert hydrocarbons from shale 
deposits into chemicals, 
which are used in the manufacturing products such as 
plastics and dyes. Previously, 
these products have been created from crude oil.
According to a university 
press release, the student discovered that the production 
of aromatics from ethane is 
not only technically feasible, 
but also economically very 
pro?table.
Grossmann said in a university press release, This 
means that U.S. companies 
like Bayer Corp in Pittsburgh 
could have advantaged access to low cost aromatics.
Siirola said in the same release, Aside from promoting 
the rebirth of the traditional 
petrochemical industry in 
the U.S. which has been in 
decline for some time, the 
various components of gas in 
shale deposits offer the possibility of producing many 
chemicals with new alternative pathways and processes.
Compiled by
NOL UM
Justine Cassell, director of the Human-Computer 
Interaction Institute, and 
Chien Ho, biological sciences 
alumni professor, have both 
been named fellows of the 
American Association for 
the Advancement of Science 
(AAAS).
Cassell received the honor 
for her distinguished contributions to the ?eld of computer science, particularly for 
new computational models of 
human behavior and resulting technologies, including 
the Embodied Conversational Agent (ECA), according to 
a university press release.
Cassell developed the 
ECA, a virtual human being 
capable of interacting with 
humans, to help children 
with autism in 2008. Her research has focused on computational systems that can 
help supplement language 
skills of disabled individuals 
through the use of conversation and storytelling. According to a university press 
release, Ho is being recognized for pioneering the use 
of magnetic resonance to unravel allosteric mechanisms 
of hemoglobin, and to develop a noninvasive method to 
monitor immune responses 
in vivo.
This years class of 702 fellows will be recognized during the AAAS Fellows Forum 
held in February at the AAAS 
Annual Meeting in Boston.
Twenty-seven Carnegie Mellon faculty members and 
alumni have been named 
AAAS Fellows in the past.
CAMPUS NEWS IN BRIEF
Professors named as AAAS fellows for their research
FEATURE PHOTO
University observes World AIDS Day
WEATHER
TUESDAY
High / Low
64 / 34
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
41 / 25
THURSDAY
High / Low
49 / 35
FRIDAY
High / Low
52 / 42
SATURDAY
High / Low
50 / 35
Theft
Nov. 26, 2012
A Mudge House resident 
summoned police of?cers to 
?le a theft report. The student 
stated that his room was unsecured from Nov. 25 to 10:30 
a.m. the following morning. 
In this time frame, his PNC 
debit card was taken from his 
wallet, which was on his desk. 
This investigation is ongoing. 
 
Theft
Nov. 26, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to take a report 
of a theft of an iPad. The iPad 
was stolen from an of?ce on 
the ?rst ?oor of Smith Hall between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. The 
of?ce was said to be open and 
unlocked during this time. 
 
 
 
Theft
Nov. 26, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Stever House 
for a theft of a bicycle. The 
Trek mountain bike was 
parked and secured at the Stever House bike rack on Nov. 21 
at 9 a.m. The victim noticed 
the bike missing last Monday 
at approximately 7:20 p.m.  
Underage Drinking
Nov. 27, 2012
University Police responded to the fourth ?oor of Stever 
House to a report of underage 
drinking. Of?cers talked with 
multiple individuals who admitted to drinking at an offcampus location and were visibly intoxicated. Two students 
were issued citations for underage drinking.
DUI Arrest
Nov. 29, 2012
University Police conducted a traf?c stop on a 
vehicle with expired registration. After police made 
contact with the driver, they 
determined that he had been 
drinking alcohol. The male 
was placed under arrest 
for driving under the in?uence of alcohol and will be 
charged. He also received 
multiple traf?c violations. 
 
Disorderly Conduct
Nov. 29, 2012
University Police were 
summoned to Hunt Library 
for a report of a disorderly female at the information desk. 
Upon their arrival, the female 
had exited the building. Of?cers searched the area attempting to ?nd the female, 
but were unsuccessful.
Theft
Nov. 30, 2012
University Police were summoned to Schatz Dining Room 
in the University Center for a 
laptop theft. The victim stated 
that her laptop and cell phone 
were taken from the second?oor area of the University 
Center. Multiple people were 
interviewed, but none was 
able to identify a suspect. 
 
Theft
Nov. 30, 2012
University Police responded to the University Center for 
a retail theft that occurred at 
Entropy+. They were unsuccessful in locating the three 
females who unlawfully took 
multiple items. 
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
A campus event recognized World AIDS day last Saturday, featuring a speaker and panelists who spoke about HIV/AIDS and answered audience 
questions. Held annually on Dec. 1, World AIDS day aims to bring attention to AIDS as a health and public issue.
Statistically Speaking
This past week, Syrians were cut off from phone and 
internet access as a result of outages allegedly orchestrated by the government to control rebel forces. Here 
are some facts on the incident and Syrian con?ict:
0
15
2
The number of days Syrian citizens were without internet access.
1982
The year in which the Syrian governments attack on 
the city of Hama was preceded by internet outages.
Compiled by 
NOL UM
Sources: usatoday.com and  
news.cnet.com
Source: www.accuweather.com
The level to which traf?c from Akamai Technologies Inc., an internet content distributor to Syrian users, dropped on Thursday.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
The number of people killed on Thursday after heavy 
?ghting between rebels and regime troops in the 
northern Idlib province and in Aleppo.
Students lead new plan for shale chemicals production
40,000
The estimated number of people killed since the start 
of the con?ict in Syria.
Between 2007 and 2010, 
Wing brie?y left Carnegie 
Mellon to serve as the assistant director of the computer 
and information science and 
engineering directorate at 
the National Science Foundation (NSF).
When Wing came back, 
Bryant said, she used what 
she had learned at the NSF 
to try and bring in some new 
faculty members who would 
be doing work in areas different than what we were doing. As an example of this, 
Bryant pointed to the hiring 
of Emma Brunskill, currently 
an assistant professor of computer science.
Frank Pfenning, a professor of computer science and 
a colleague of Wings, agrees 
with Bryant on the pleasures 
of working with her: There 
are many attributes that make 
it exciting to work with her; I 
think one of her strongest attributes is her dedication, her 
energy and her enthusiasm 
and, in scienti?c terms, her 
total commitment.
Pfenning, too, has worked 
with Wing for many years. 
As department head, Pfenning said, Wing was adept 
at gauging the departments 
needs and allocating resources. She has a complete 
sort of sense for what the 
department needs and what 
we need as were moving 
forward. Shes very good at 
setting priorities and making 
sure these priorities are put 
into practice, he said.
Generations of Wings 
students have known her as 
the dragon lady, based on 
a photo of her performing 
a Chinese sword dance that 
she learned in Xian, China. 
As department head, Wing 
is still interacting as much as 
she can with students.
This semester, she cotaught 15-150, Principles of 
Functional Programming. 
Wing said she enjoys the class 
because of her long-standing 
interest in functional programming. It got me into 
computer science. I love the 
material; I just want to convey my own passion for this 
material to the students.
When asked what advice 
she would give rising computer science students at 
Carnegie Mellon, Wing said, 
Follow your passion. Find 
something that youre really 
interested in and go for it. Believe in yourself. The students 
are smart here; there should 
be no lack of con?dence.
Pfenning and Bryant say 
Wing will be sorely missed. 
Of course its a big loss to 
CMU. Its impossible to replace her, thats for sure, 
Pfenning said.
I think shes been very 
inspirational to people; were 
really sad to see her go, Bryant said.
Wing is sad to go, but excited to take on the challenges Microsoft will offer her. 
I will always love Carnegie 
Mellon. Carnegie Mellon is 
my family, she said. 
Wing departs for Microsoft position
WING, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

December 3, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Polanski illustrated how Chinese language studies have 
expanded. At Carnegie Mellon, there were ?ve students 
studying Mandarin Chinese 
in 1992. Polanski said, Initially we hired a tutor, and the 
courses were taught through 
distance learning. Today, over 
300 students ?ll 23 sections 
of Chinese language courses 
at Carnegie Mellon.
Mark Dyehouse, a sophomore Chinese and physics 
double major, had the opportunity to take three years of 
Chinese in high school. Unlike many students who take 
Chinese language classes, 
Dyehouse has no Chinese 
heritage.
I began to ?nd the many 
facets of the language, culture, and history fascinating, 
he said. I visited China and 
Hong Kong for a few weeks 
last summer, which intensi?ed the hold that the language had on me. He would 
like to become ?uent and to 
potentially use his Chinese 
language skills to conduct research in physics.
Many Pittsburghers roots 
are Slavic, so it makes sense 
that Pitts department of 
Slavic languages and literature offers Russian, Polish, 
Slovak, Ukrainian, Bosnian/
Croatian/Serbian, Czech, and 
Bulgarian. Those languages 
are also taught during the 
summer, with Hungarian and 
Turkish added to the mix.
In addition, said Christine Metil, director of the 
Summer Language Institute, 
for the next three years, Pitt 
will host the Baltic Studies 
Summer Internship, the only 
program in the country to 
offer Estonian, Latvian, and 
Lithuanian.
The U.S. government is 
always looking for speakers 
of critical languages, a constantly-changing list tied to 
areas of con?ict in the world. 
According to the American 
Councils for International 
Education website, in 2006, 
the U.S. Department of State, 
along with the Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs, 
set up the Critical Language 
Scholarship Program to expand dramatically the number of Americans studying 
and mastering critical-need 
foreign languages.
This year, 631 critical language scholarships (out of 
over 5,200 applicants) were 
awarded for the study of 
Arabic, Azerbaijani, Bangla/
Bengali, Chinese, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, 
Persian, Punjabi, Russian, 
Turkish, and Urdu. 
The scholarships cover 
all costs, including travel between the students home city 
and program location, orientation costs, visa fees, and 
room and  board.
Critical languages are 
often not taught in college 
language programs. Claude 
Mauk, the director of Pitts 
Less-Commonly-Taught 
Languages Center, knows 
all about that: This center, 
which is part of the Linguistics 
Department, began in the 
1960s, mostly for graduate 
students to help with their 
research. Now its mostly 
undergraduate.
The assortment of languages offered through the 
center changes often, but at 
the moment, the list includes 
Farsi, Swahili (the only truly 
African language taught at 
Pitt), American Sign Language (ASL), Arabic, Modern 
Greek, Hindi, Hungarian, 
Irish Gaelic, Swedish, Icelandic, Turkish, Vietnamese, and 
Quechua (a language spoken 
in the Andes).
Of all of the languages in 
which the center provides instruction to undergraduates, 
Arabic has had the highest 
gain in percentage of students 
since 2002.
In the fall of 2001, Mauk 
said, Arabic was fourth as far 
as student enrollments. It was 
behind ASL, Irish Gaelic, and 
Swahili. By spring of 2002, 
the number of Arabic student 
enrollments doubled. In 2009 
the number of students enrolled was 352, up from 75 
in 2002. And this was after 
Carnegie Mellon started their 
own Arabic language courses. If not for budget cuts, it 
would likely be much higher.
The ?eld of careers for 
critical language speakers is 
growing. Do you speak Ibo/
Igbo (spoken in Nigeria)? 
How about Assamese (spoken 
in northeast India)? If you 
do, the U.S. government has 
translator job openings right 
now. Becoming a translator 
generally requires more than 
an undergraduate language 
degree, but even a passing 
knowledge of another language can be useful for travel 
or perhaps as the basis for a 
completely different career.
Erin Taylor is a junior math 
and linguistics double major. 
She is ?uent in French and 
Spanish, and studies Italian 
at Carnegie Mellon. Im looking into a minor in language 
technology. Id like to use my 
knowledge of the structure of 
languages to work in arti?cial 
intelligence, perhaps in code 
breaking. And someday shed 
like to learn Tagalog, one of 
the predominant languages 
spoken in the Philippines.
With regard to the universitys ?nancial outlook, Cohon 
said, Were in very good position. But he expressed fears 
about the effect of the national ?scal cliff on research funding that would be available to 
the university.
Our endowment continues to be small, Cohon said, 
but he said that it is getting 
better due to fundraising such 
as the Dietrich gift, whose 
contribution to the endowment hasnt been felt yet.
On the subject, Jennifer 
Keating-Miller, the Associate Director of Undergraduate Research and National 
Fellowships, inquired about 
continued investment in existing Pittsburgh programs 
in contrast to the universitys 
expansion. Were in a better position to meet [funding 
requests], but thats relative; 
weve never had enough discretionary funds, Cohon responded.
The forum was sponsored 
by Staff Council. Jeffrey Harris, the chair of Staff Council, 
said, Staff Council sponsors 
this event as an opportunity 
for the Carnegie Mellon community and President Cohon 
to speak candidly.
an all-or-nothing approach, 
so that nations are forced to 
make concessions. The problem with this system, he explained, is unanimity  with 
more than 100 parties being 
involved in trade talks, it is 
dif?cult to make progress by 
having all of the parties in 
agreement.
Instead, he said nations 
pretend theyre moving forward in trade discussions, 
when in reality, an agreement 
among nations has not been 
reached since 2003, almost a 
decade ago.
Trejos feels rules that were 
created 20 years ago havent 
been changed, and countries 
are now exhausting money, 
effort, and time into bilateral agreements when they 
should focus on the larger 
picture by agreeing to multilateral agreements and reforming previous rules. With 
international powers like the 
U.S. and the European Union 
dominating over smaller nations like Costa Rica, Trejos 
claimed that smaller countries have unfairly been put 
into a corner in recent negotiations and that these larger 
nations should not be allowed 
to exploit others.
An example he provided 
described a wealthy individual who is only willing to pay 
$6 for a task to another individual who wanted $10 for its 
completion. Although $6 is 
not the amount that the other person desired, he would 
have to accept it instead of being stuck with no payment at 
all. Analogous to the bullying 
of weaker nations, Trejos felt 
that this practice should be 
ended.
Students who attended the 
talk enjoyed the alternative 
perspective that Trejos provided on international issues.
Umer Humayun, a ?rstyear public policy and management masters student, 
agreed, It was great. Hearing 
different point of views from 
other countries was really interesting  not just from the 
United States, but also countries like Costa Rica.
Trejos gives trade perspective
Language opportunities on rise
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor
Former Minister of Foreign Trade for Costa Rica Alberto Trejos spoke at Heinz College on Friday.
Cohon outlines future plans
TREJOS, from A1
COHON, from A1
Do you speak 
Ibo/Igbo? 
How about 
Assamese? If 
you do, the U.S. 
government has 
translator job 
openings right 
now.
LANGUAGE, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  December 3, 2012
SCITECH BRIEFS
Europe observatory discovers biggest black hole blast
Astronomers at the European Southern Observatory have observed one of 
the largest black hole explosions ever known. The blasts, 
known as quasars, are very 
bright galactic centers powered by supermassive black 
holes. The newly discovered 
quasar, approximately 1,000 
light-years away, is at least 
?ve times more powerful 
than the one previously observed to be the largest.
Some scientists believe 
that these quasars can help 
them understand the enigmas of the universe, such as 
the lack of large galaxies and 
how a galaxys mass is related to the mass of its central 
black hole. 
Nahum Arav, an astronomer from Virginia Tech, 
stated, Ive been looking 
for something like this for a 
decade, so its thrilling to ?-
nally ?nd one of the monster 
out?ows that have been predicted!
Source: Astronomy magazine 
2012 rates among hottest years in past 160 years
This year ranks as one of 
the nine hottest years in 160 
years, con?rming the trend 
toward a warmer planet. According to the World Meteorological Organization, average temperatures between 
January and October were 
0.45C above the average 
from 1961  90. A rise of 1C 
is enough to increase the frequency of extreme weather, 
according to some scientists.
The rate at which the Arctic ice melted last summer 
was higher than that of any 
previous year. In September, 
the ice area shrank to just 
over half its size from the 
previous year, the smallest  it 
has been since records began. 
In addition, recent unusual 
weather events show links to 
global warming.
Michel Jarraud, head of 
the World Meteorological Organization, cited the extreme 
heat wave that occurred in 
Russia in 2010, and stated 
that without climate change, 
this episode would have been 
extremely unlikely.
Source: The New York Times
SARS-like virus in Mideast kills two Jordanian men
Experts with the World 
Health Organization (WHO) 
reported that a new SARSlike coronavirus has killed 
two people in Jordan. The 
deaths make a total of nine 
con?rmed cases of the virus, 
with ?ve fatalities, since it 
was initially contracted by 
a Saudi Arabian man. Cases 
have occurred so far in Saudi 
Arabia, Qatar, and Jordan.
Scientists are looking into 
the possibility of the virus 
being communicable, although the virus is probably 
not nearly as deadly as SARS. 
Even if the cases in Jordan were human-to-human 
spread  and we dont know 
that  it wasnt sustained, 
said WHO spokesman Gregory Hartl.  Two clusters of the 
diseases lead some to believe 
it is conagious, and medical 
and public health workers 
are being told to stay vigilant 
to unexplained cases of pneumonia as possible links to the 
new virus. 
Source: NPR
Music theory helps develop synthetic materials strength
Experiments led by researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Tufts University, and 
Boston University revealed 
that knowledge from music 
theory can strengthen spider silk, one of the strongest 
known materials in the natural world.
The research team  
consisting of mathematicians, music composers, and 
engineers  constructed 
detailed computer models 
of the underlying protein 
structures that make the silk 
so ?exible and strong. After 
studying patterns within 
the structures, the team 
found that the structure of 
silk could be described in a 
similar manner of a musical 
piece: by range, pitch, dynamics, and tempo.
The researchers are now 
working to design biosynthesized materials by piecing the proteins together 
as a musical composition 
might be pieced together. 
This method of synthesizing 
materials could signal the 
building blocks for tissue 
engineering and could ultimately lead to replacement 
organs, skin, or new materials for civil engineering.
Source: Science Daily
Health problems rise in aftermath of Sandy in New York
As New York City faces the 
aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, residents struggle with 
increased health problems. 
Although a majority of the 
city has power and heating 
restored, there are still over 
12,000 residents in unheated 
homes. As a result, the rate 
at which people contract 
hypothermia is three times 
the normal rate of previous 
years. During the week of the 
storm, the carbon monoxide 
exposure rate was 10 times 
higher than expected. There 
were six times as many cases 
as usual the next week.
Lack of heating could lead 
to other health problems 
such as depression, anxiety, 
and the worsening of heart 
and lung problems. Of?cials 
worry over the approaching 
winter, as long periods of exposure to environments below room temperature could 
be fatal. Of?cials recommend 
that residents without heat 
should avoid using gas or 
ovens to protect themselves 
from carbon monoxide, and 
should wear loose-?tting, dry 
layers of clothing.
Source: The New York Times
Compiled by
SONIA KATHARANI-KHAN 
MICHAEL SETZER
New computer simulation mimics brains process
The computer simulation 
SPAUN  Semantic Pointer 
Architecture Uni?ed Network 
 has been programmed 
to think in a similar manner 
to the human brain. What 
sets SPAUN apart from other 
simulations is its ability to inform the user of its thought 
process: After answering a 
question, it prints out how it 
reached that answer.
Input is given in the form 
of a written question, with 
SPAUN seeing the query; the information sorts 
through the system until 
SPAUN decides what to do 
with it. Eventually, it prints 
detailed instructions on how 
to solve the problem.
While the creators of 
SPAUN believe it is a breakthrough that will help scientists understand the brain, 
some of its obvious limitations  like not being able 
to learn new information  
come to the attention of its 
critics. It is not a brain model, said Henry Markram of 
the Swiss Federal Institute 
of Technology in Lausanne.
Source: www.sciencenews.org
DESIREE XU
Junior Staffwriter
While the press may focus on research published 
by Ph.Ds, undergraduate research at Carnegie Mellon is 
alive and well. Kevin Schaefer, 
a sophomore information systems major who is conducting 
research for the Human-Computer Interaction Institute 
(HCII), is one example. 
He became involved in his 
current project when he was 
searching for something to 
occupy his time over the summer. His friend Quintin Carlson, a junior decision science 
major, introduced a project 
he was working on for the 
HCII.
Schaefer, consequently, 
landed an undergraduate research role under Anind Dey, 
an associate professor of human-computer interaction, 
and Gabi Marcu, a Ph.D. student in human-computer interaction.
Part of his job is to work 
with faculty members and 
teachers who analyze and collect a massive amount of data 
on autistic students at nearby 
special education schools. Unlike conventional schools  
which gauge their students 
progress based on assignments, tests, and quizzes  
the special education schools 
require that their teachers 
collect data on each student 
manually.
As a result, each teacher is 
assigned to one student and 
he or she has to mark down 
the students behavior and 
learning progress by hand. 
The data collected varies dramatically. Schaefer and his 
teammates deal with ?nding 
a method to transition manual collection and storage to 
a digital version. This way 
the teachers can spend less 
of their time just observing 
and collecting data, and more 
time instructing and interacting with each student. 
Discovering a way to 
transition data collection and 
storage makes the teachers 
jobs more ef?cient, Schaefer said, because recording 
data virtually allows them to 
manipulate information and 
analyze patterns easily, as 
opposed to the process being 
more tedious on hand-written 
surfaces.
This advancemet could 
also bene?t the students, as 
it has been shown that education quality is improved if 
each teacher allocates more 
time, effort, and attention to 
their students. In order to carry out this research, Schaefer 
and his teammates have to answer the question: Why is the 
process happening on paper 
instead of a virtual interface? 
Part of their objective is to ?nd 
a technological solution to the 
teachers inconvenience. 
Schaefer said that it was 
his personal objective to ?nd 
practical, applied humancomputer interaction methods, such as conducting 
studies and interviewing participants.
Without research, I 
wouldnt have gotten these 
skills until senior year, but it is 
bene?cial to acquire them at a 
younger age, he said. He also 
claims that his favorite part 
about doing research is that 
most undergraduates do not 
focus solely on the research 
aspect of the job, and instead 
treat it as an opportunity to 
practice practical skills in 
human-computer interaction. 
Schaefer enjoys the comfort 
and safety of being under the 
guidance of his professor and 
advisors as he works to obtain 
valuable skills.
As a researcher, Schaefer 
has been described as detail 
-oriented and design-centric. 
He is passionate about what 
he works on in terms of user 
experience, Carlson said.
Im proud to say I go to 
the same school and am in 
the same program as him, 
said Julia Teitelbaum, a junior information systems and 
human-computer interaction 
double major. 
Outside of being a researcher, Schaefer is just like 
any other college student. 
Hes extremely friendly, intelligent, and caring, Carlson said. He has a variety of 
interests, including the new 
Windows 8 phone and his 
Volkswagen Jetta. People get 
into ?ghts about his Jetta, and 
he is protective of it, Carlson 
explained.
IS major applies skills to data collection
Nanoparticles less toxic than believed
BENJAMIN MADUEME
Staffwriter
A group of Carnegie Mellon researchers have made 
huge strides in examining the 
exact effects of silver nanoparticles on bacteria living in gelatinous bio?lms. The results 
of their research indicate that 
the nanoparticles are less toxic on bio?lms than was previously suspected, a ?nding that 
has positive implications for 
the effects of these nanoparticles on the environment, as 
bio?lms are the most common 
form of life on Earth.
The research team involved is composed of Stacy 
Wirth, a Ph.D. student in the 
department of chemical engineering; Robert Tilton, a 
professor of chemical and 
biomedical engineering; and 
Gregory Lowry, a professor 
of civil and environmental 
engineering. The three are 
members of the Center for the 
Environmental Implications 
of Nanotechnology (CEINT), 
a ?ve-year old multi-university initiative among Carnegie Mellon, Duke University, 
Howard University, Virginia 
Tech, Stanford University, and 
the University of Kentucky.
CEINT (pronounced like 
saint) specializes in identifying the effects of humanitys increased usage of nanomaterials on the environment, 
speci?cally on microbial and 
single-celled lifeforms whose 
size make them the best candidates to be directly affected 
by these tiny nanoparticles.
The focus of all the work 
we do in our group is the behavior of engineered nanoparticles in environmental systems, said Wirth, who led the 
teams research.
According to Science Daily, 
a nanoparticle is a microscopic particle with at least one dimension less than 100 nanometers in size. When chemical 
compounds are shrunk down 
to this size, their physical 
and chemical properties often change in unprecedented 
ways. Recent chemical engineering breakthroughs have 
allowed manufacturers to leverage these properties to enhance many everyday products.
Nanoparticles are used 
in scratch-proof eyeglasses, 
stain-repellent fabrics, and 
self-cleaning windows. In 
computer engineering, carbon 
nanotubes are being explored 
to create nanoscale circuitry 
and even bendable electronics.
Silver nanoparticles  
the ones the research team 
worked with  are popular for 
their antimicrobial properties, 
so they are used in items like 
athletic clothing, food packaging materials, and even some 
brands of toothpaste. Though 
they are commonly used in 
these and other consumer 
products, there has been some 
recent concern over how easily silver nanoparticles can 
leak into the environment, 
where their hazardous effects 
on bacteria may damage an 
areas ecology.
Lets say you have [silver 
nanoparticles] on a toothpaste, Tilton said. You brush 
your teeth [and] it goes into 
the water, which ends up in a 
waste water treatment plant. 
The sludge  the end product 
of waste water treatment  is 
actually very rich in organic 
compounds. Its often used as 
fertilizer.... Now youve just 
realized that theres a route 
for it to go from your socks to 
the sludge to a farm ?eld, possibly being taken immediately 
into the roots of crops. Its not 
unreasonable to think that 
theres a risk here.
A substantial amount of 
work has already been done to 
show that silver nanoparticles 
are harmful to free-roaming 
bacteria. A less-explored aspect involves their reactions 
with bio?lms, or thin ?lms on 
surfaces (like rocks), with a 
high density of bacteria protected by a gelatinous polysaccharide substance they 
produce. It was a study of 
silver nanoparticles in this 
environment that yielded the 
research teams result.
When the bacteria are in 
a bio?lm, silver nanoparticles 
are still toxic, but much less 
toxic than they are to bacteria 
swimming around freely in 
water, Tilton said. Its a difference of ?ve orders of magnitude.... What we think a big 
part of [this] is that the gelatinous matrix theyre growing 
in prevents the particles from 
getting in and actually making 
direct contact with the bacteria.
To determine the toxicity of silver nanoparticles, the 
researchers cultured various 
bio?lms in vitro and then exposed them to different levels 
of nanoparticles. The toxicity 
of each level was determined 
via viability assays, where ?uorescent dyes are injected into 
the bio?lm containers.
If the liquid surrounding 
the bacteria turned a certain 
color (like green), then that 
indicated that the bacteria was 
still alive and the nanoparticle 
levels they were exposed to 
was not toxic, whereas a different color (like red) indicated the opposite result.
This process was also used 
to ascertain that the ions left 
behind when silver nanoparticles dissolve are more toxic 
than the actual nanoparticles 
themselves.
Weve been able to show 
that a large fraction of the toxicity of silver nanoparticles is 
actually due to the silver ions 
that they release when they 
dissolve, Tilton said. We believe that the polysaccharides 
in that [gelatinous] matrix 
can bind to the silver ions, and 
if the silver ions are bound up 
in that matrix, theyre not going to get to the bacteria. Its 
sort of like its behaving like a 
sink or a sponge for the silver 
ions.
Despite their usage in consumer 
products, there has been some 
recent concern over how easily 
silver nanoparticles can leak into 
the environment, where their 
hazardous effects on bacteria may 
damage an areas ecology.
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Sophomore information systems major Kevin Schaefer conducts research in the Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute. His project involves improving data collection techniques for teachers of autistic students.
Courtesy of adonofrio via Flickr
Bio?lms, like the one above, are harmed less by silver nanoparticles 
than previously thought, according to new Carnegie Mellon research.

---------------------------------------------------

December 3, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
BROOKE KUEI
Staffwriter
Imagine a world in which 
the sky wasn't blue, but say, 
orange. The sky has been blue 
for as long as youve lived. But 
was it always this color?
To answer this question, 
we must understand what the 
Earths atmosphere is composed of and the properties of 
light.
The atmosphere of our 
planet is composed of a mixture of gases and a few other 
materials. According to space 
news site Universe Today, 78 
percent of the atmosphere is 
made of nitrogen and 21 percent is made of oxygen. Other 
components include argon 
gas, water vapor, dust, and 
pollen. The atmosphere surrounds the entire planet, so 
sunlight has to pass through 
these gas particles on its way 
to Earth.
This is where the properties of light come into play. 
Light is energy that travels 
in waves moving at 300 million meters per second. The 
energy of radiation is dependent upon two characteristics of light: wavelength and 
frequency. Wavelength is the 
distance between the crests 
of a wave; frequency is the 
number of waves that pass by 
each second. Wavelength and 
frequency are inverses of each 
other.
Light from the sun appears 
to be white, but it is actually 
composed of all colors. This 
can be demonstrated by observing how light is split into 
a rainbow spectrum when 
it passes through a crystal 
prism. The colors in this rainbow all have different wavelengths, frequencies, and 
energies; red having the longest wavelength (lowest frequency) and violet having the 
shortest (highest frequency).
So what happens when 
sunlight passes through the 
atmosphere? The National 
Aeronautics and Space Administrations website explains that light travels in a 
straight path unless something is in its way. When sunlight passes through the atmosphere, it is interrupted by the 
various particles. When light 
hits relatively large particles 
 such as water, dust, or pollen  it simply bounces off in 
different directions. However, 
when it hits gas molecules, 
which are smaller than the 
wavelength of light, it gets absorbed by the molecule. The 
molecule later radiates the 
same color that was absorbed.
According to NASA, although all wavelengths (colors) of light can be absorbed, 
shorter wavelengths (blue) 
are absorbed more frequently than longer wavelengths 
(red) because they travel in 
shorter waves. As a result, 
blue is scattered more than 
any other color, which is why 
the sky appears blue most of 
the time.
As the sun goes down, its 
light has to travel through 
more of the atmosphere before it reaches the planet. This 
means that by the time you 
see it, more of the blue light is 
already scattered, leaving the 
red and yellow light visible. 
This is why sunrises and sunsets are red.
But if shorter wavelengths 
are scattered more than longer wavelengths and violet 
light has a shorter wavelength 
than blue light, why doesnt 
the sky appear purple? The 
answer, according to researchers at the University of 
California, Riverside, is that 
the physiology of the human 
eye makes us more sensitive 
to blue light than to purple 
light.
To return to the original 
question of whether or not 
the sky was always blue, recall that the blue color of the 
sky is a result of the sunlights 
interactions with the molecules in the atmosphere. This 
means that during a different 
period in our planets lifetime, 
when the atmosphere was 
composed of different gases, 
the sky may not have been the 
blue sky we see today.
HOW THINGS WORKWhy a clear sky looks blue
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
Cancer: A brief mention of 
the ubiquitous killer conjures 
up unpleasant images of the 
painful consequences that 
sometimes result from a diagnosis. According to the American Cancer Society, there 
were over 500,000 estimated 
deaths from cancer in the U.S. 
this year.
While cancer is the result of 
a myriad of different causes, 
fast-paced advancements in 
genetics have allowed physicians and scientists to discover 
multiple biological receptors 
critical for tumor growth. 
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon have explored alternative 
forms of treatment that inactivate the genes behind these 
receptors and stop the progression of tumors common in 
neck and spinal cancer.
Chemistry professors Danith 
Ly and Bruce Armitage, chemistry post-doctoral researcher 
Srinivas Rapireddy, and chemistry graduate student Raman 
Bahal teamed up with multiple researchers at the University of Pittsburgh to look into 
the prospect of using peptide 
nucleic acids as an alternative 
to current treatments that target the growth of a tumor at 
the molecular level.
The team included specialists in chemistry, oncology, pharmacology, and biostatistics. Their research was 
published in the journal ACS 
Chemical Biology.
The source of the research 
is the treatment for infectious 
disease. Due to a growing 
number of resistant strains 
of bacteria, researchers have 
searched for alternative sources of treatment for infectious 
diseases. A recently emerged 
method of treatment utilizes 
oligonucleotides  small molecules of DNA that can turn off 
genes that contribute to tumor 
production. 
While the motivation for 
the use of oligonucleotides 
stems from infectious diseases, the research team believed 
they could use the same type 
of treatment to target certain 
cancers as well. 
Like antibiotics, many cancer drugs can lose their effectiveness within weeks due to 
resistance. But because oligonucleotides are made up of a 
combination of the same four 
base pairs that make up DNA, 
scientists can tailor them to 
?ght any mutated gene or 
strain. With oligonucleotides, 
the advantage in usage is that 
you can change the sequence 
to match anything that can 
emerge, Ly explained. [Its] 
similar to using different bullets depending on what the 
targets are.
Oligonucleotides are rarely 
used in clinical treatment, 
however, due to their sensitivity to degradation and 
poor cellular uptake. In other 
words, the ?imsiness of oligonucleotides makes it dif?cult 
for them to even get to the cell 
intact. And even if it arrives, 
it is a challenge for it to latch 
onto the cancerous cell due to 
its size and permeability. 
In an attempt to make a 
stronger and better oligonucleotide, the team focused 
their attention on guanidinebased peptide nucleic acids 
(GPNAs). PNAs are analogous 
to DNA and RNA, but are much 
more stable; the added base 
pair guanidine  the G  is 
necessary for cellular uptake. 
The researchers surmised that 
the combination of these attributes would overcome the 
issues currently hindering oligonucleotides.
The researchers tested their 
synthetic oligonucleotide on a 
receptor involved in tumors 
called the epidermal growth 
factor receptor (EGFR), which 
is associated with advancedstage, large tumors that typically have a poor prognosis. 
The idea was that the GPNA 
would be able to block the synthesis of key proteins that lead 
to growth of the tumor. 
The effects of the study on 
mice indicated that the GPNA, 
which was injected in the 
stomach, began having an impact on head and neck tumor 
growth within one week; this 
was a two-week improvement 
over current oligonucleotide 
treatments. This accomplishment was even more signi?-
cant because the treatment 
didnt have to be directly injected into the tumor, or even 
close to the tumor.
This development could 
prove bene?cial to those 
whose cancer has metastasized. That was sort of the 
ultimate goal of the research, 
Ly said.
Next, the researchers ran 
trials comparing their GPNA 
to erlotinib and cetuximab, 
two different medications that 
also target EFGR. The GPNA 
had comparable effects on tumor suppression to the FDAapproved drugs.
Even more remarkably, 
the GPNA was also successful at delaying the growth of 
a tumor of a mutated, resistant strain of EFGR. Its this 
result that is groundbreaking, 
Ly said, as patients with this 
strain would normally have no 
further treatment options. 
The team has plenty of 
work to do for the future, however. An actual form of medication utilizing this mechanism wouldnt be available for 
years, and thats only if every 
step of the research process 
goes perfectly. The study also 
looked at a very small number of mice, so its still possible that the oligonucleotide 
could pose unforeseen health 
risks. Ly is optimistic about 
the future, but is proceeding 
cautiously in this ?ght against 
cancerous tumors. 
We dont want to publish 
for the sake of publishing papers, he added.
Bahal, however, doesnt 
hide his excitement. This is 
a great step forward toward 
GPNA-based gene therapy and 
will serve as platform for targeting many other genes accountable for different kinds 
of cancer, he said via email.
Researchers create GPNAs to supress tumor growth
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor
The sun emits white light that holds the wavelength of all colors. Once 
the light travels through the Earths atmosphere, it bounces through 
dust and water particles until it is absorbed by gaseous molecules. 
Because blue light has the shortest wavelength, it is the one most often 
absorbed and re-emitted by the gas molecules.
Michael Setzer/Acting SciTech Editor
The two images represent healthy (left) and cancerous (right) cell division. In healthy cell division, a healthy cell will terminate a damaged cell through a process called apoptosis, or programmed cell death. A cancerous cell 
may have a mutation in the gene that regulates apoptosis. Without it, damaged cells will continue to divide and may lead to the growth of a cancerous tumor.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
LAYOUT
Chloe Chia, Edward Wojciechowski 
COPY
Swathi Anand, Manali Banerjee, Sawsan 
Boutemine, Kairavi Chahal, Connie Chan, 
Nivedita Chopra, Braden Kelner, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Grace Chung, Seo Young Hwang
CHRISTA HESTER *
Publisher
EMILY DOBLER *
Editor-in-Chief
JOSH SMITH 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JACKSON LANE
Senior Staffwriter
ANNA WALSH *
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD
Asst. News Editor
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Operations Manager
MADELYN GLYMOUR
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
Acting SciTech Editor
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
NICOLE HAMILTON
Comics Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Photo Editor
ADELAIDE COLE
Art Editor
ALEX CRICHTON
Systems Manager
KATHY CHEN
Advertising Manager
KENNETH WONG
Business Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
NOL UM
Asst. News Editor
ABBY SMITH
Asst. Sports Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Asst. Systems Manager
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
CHLOE THOMPSON
Asst. Personnel Manager
ALLISON COSBY *
Staffwriter
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
LUKE MASA
Happy Holidays.
It baf?es me to no end how anyone could view this greeting  an 
attempt to be inclusive  as an attack, yet during this time of year we 
are once again subjected to cries of 
a so-called War on Christmas. I 
for one am getting sick of hardcore 
Christians complaining that secular 
Americans are trying to somehow 
destroy Christmas or otherwise impinge upon the rights of whomever 
wishes to celebrate it.
Even the nonreligious get annoyed when groups, such as the 
Freedom from Religion Foundation, attempt to get nativity scenes 
removed from publicly owned land; 
they dont see such scenes as hurting 
anyone. Now, that might very well 
be the case, but it misses the point 
entirely.
Groups like the Freedom from 
Religion Foundation arent bitter 
grinches trying to ruin everyones 
good time; theyre merely pointing 
out the Establishment Clause of the 
Constitution, which states, Congress shall make no law regarding 
the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.
It is technically illegal for the 
government, or at the very least the 
federal government, to promote any 
one religion over another  or any 
religion at all.
Certain religious groups try to 
twist this to their advantage by 
claiming that secularism tries to limit their free exercise, but this is absurd. Secularism, in fact, promotes 
the only fair possibility: The public 
sphere is not explicitly irreligious, 
but rather areligious. It is not, say, 
the endorsement of atheism any 
more than it is the endorsement of 
Catholicism or Gnosticism.
This is why it becomes very confusing when Christians ?nd it unfair that government buildings have 
nondenominational holiday trees 
instead of Christmas trees, as happened in Rhode Island when Governor Lincoln Chafee deciced to hold 
a holiday tree lighting ceremony 
rather than a Christmas tree lighting ceremony.
That being said, Christmas is (for 
better or worse) actually a national 
holiday, and nowadays it is pretty 
much secular anyway. Anyone from 
Christians to Buddhists can watch 
Frosty and Rudolph, then rush into 
a consumerist frenzy  all while 
enjoying eggnog and candy canes. 
Those who claim Jesus is the reason for the season ought to brush 
up on their history, just as those who 
implore us to keep the Christ in 
Christmas are unlikely to keep the 
Thor in Thursday.
Not only were holidays such as 
Saturnalia, Yule, and Hanukkah   
from which we derive most of the 
noncommercial aspects of modern 
tradition  celebrated long before 
Christs alleged birth, the Church 
decided that the Nativity would be 
celebrated on Dec. 25 as a way to 
convert pagans who already had 
rituals associated with that day. This 
means that, if anything, the season 
is the reason for Jesus birthday 
party being when it is.
With these facts being ever more 
apparent now, coupled with our 
increasingly pluralistic society, it 
should only make sense that people 
would want to be more inclusive. 
Yet, as The Daily Show host Jon 
Stewart put it, some Christians have 
taken the idea of no establishment 
as persecution because they feel 
entitled not to equal status, but to 
greater status.
They realize that equal consideration for other viewpoints spells the 
end of the approximately 1,700-year 
privileged status of their own position.
I would have no real problem 
if every holiday got equal time in 
the public sphere, because then the 
government couldnt be accused of 
special treatment. However, considering that there will likely always be 
a group that feels it isnt being fairly 
represented, it is much easier to just 
set up something like a holiday tree 
and leave it at that.
The sheer fact that New Years is 
celebrated within a week of Christmas makes the phrase Happy Holidays a necessity even to Christians. 
Whats more, no one is really saying 
that Christians shouldnt be allowed 
to wish whoever they want a Merry 
Christmas. Its just that the rest of 
us should be allowed to retort with a 
Happy Festivus.
It all boils down to what seems to 
me to be the human need for a yearend festival, a light in the winter 
darkness. However you want to express that need is your prerogative, 
provided it doesnt infringe on others in any way. Thus, Id like to take 
this opportunity as a Christmas-celebrating secular humanist agnostic 
atheist to wish you and yours a happy whatever doesnt offend you, or 
more simply, Happy Holidays.
Luke Masa (lmasa@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  December 3, 2012
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Tis the season for a persecution complex
When Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011, it established 
a conundrum known as the ?scal 
cliff, which ensured that by January 
the government would ?nally address U.S. debt and budget concerns 
with a comprehensive, long-term solution. 
The notion of the ?scal cliff relies 
on recognizing that the combined 
effects of across-the-board tax increases and dramatic spending cuts 
could throw the economy back into a 
recession. This threat would provide 
enough incentive for Republicans 
and Democrats to put aside unnecessary partisan agendas and reach a 
compromise. This type of guarantee 
was, by design, intended to increase 
long-term stability in the U.S. economy.
However, with less than a month 
remaining before the January deadline, and with Republicans and 
Democrats locked in a congressional 
stalemate, the ?scal cliff has lost its 
original intent. 
The American people are growing more uncertain as to whether or 
not a deal can be reached. The longer 
Congress waits to come to an agreement, and the closer we get to the ?scal cliff, the more their uncertainty 
will rise.
As lawmakers recognized back 
in 2011, uncertainty among the 
American public takes its toll on the 
economy and Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and the ?scal cliff has exacerbated these effects rather than 
alleviated them.
In the U.S. stock market, investors 
are aggressively selling off shares to 
record as much income as possible 
before any tax increase is implemented. In October, the Commerce 
Department reported that while personal income levels have stayed the 
same, consumer spending decreased 
by 0.2 percent  the ?rst decline in 
spending since May.
Many organizations that receive 
government funding, such as government contractors and nonpro?ts, 
are announcing budget and hiring 
freezes in anticipation of government spending cuts. Since Carnegie 
Mellon in particular has a relatively 
small endowment, it depends on 
funding from granting agencies like 
the National Science Foundation and 
the National Institute of Health. At a 
recent town hall meeting, University 
President Jared Cohon anticipated 
that ?scal cliff cuts to these agencies 
would limit Carnegie Mellons research and activities funding.
While we at The Tartan trust 
that our government will eventually come to an agreement before the 
deadline, although an agreement 
may be reached at the last minute as 
with the Budget Control Act, we urge 
lawmakers on both sides to balance 
their party-speci?c agendas with the 
consequences of letting the American people grow increasingly uncertain about the ?scal cliff.
Parties must solve ?nancial crisis before its too late
Dining on Carnegie Mellons campus has been steadily improving this 
semester, as a board editorial observed in the Sept. 24 issue of The 
Tartan. 
There is a wider variety of eatery 
options on campus, and the food 
quality has improved this semester. 
But efforts by Carnegie Mellon Housing and Dining Services on campus 
to promote sustainability may be the 
most delicious change on campus 
yet.
Signs that discourage rampant 
food waste have appeared at multiple campus dining locations, such as 
Tazza DOro and The Underground. 
One sign, located in The Underground, reads, 20 million people 
could live off the food WE waste. 
LOVE FOOD hate waste.
Promoting sustainability is a 
noble cause, and one that students 
can really get behind. Locations like 
Schatz Dining Room have had separate receptacles for compost for some 
time now, and having these signs 
located at campus dining locations 
serves to further remind students 
and faculty to consider the rami?cations of wasting food.
This move toward sustainable 
practices is a state of mind that the 
entire university is adopting. The 
construction of Scott Hall, future 
home to the Wilton E. Scott Institute 
for Energy Innovation, is a great indicator of the measures our university is taking to address the energy 
and sustainability needs of the 21st 
century.
However, sustainable practices 
may not be enough to discourage 
students and faculty from retaining harmful dining practices. While 
signs at campus dining locations are 
a great step, Housing and Dining 
Services should make further efforts 
to discourage their customers from 
wasting food and energy. These efforts also need to be made highly 
visible to in?uence the campus community to take their own that environmentally-conscious measures.
Housing and Dining Services, and 
Carnegie Mellon as a whole, should 
be commended for their efforts to 
encourage, research, and promote 
sustainable practices. Hopefully this 
trend and mindset will continue to 
guide the actions of the administration and the members of the campus 
community.
Dining areas should visibly promote green practices
To thank the student population 
for enduring the construction in 
Hunt Library over the semester, University Libraries and Undergraduate 
Marketing Organization gave out 
1,000 cupcakes on Thursday to students in the library. 
In addition to the free food, there 
were trivia questions about the librarys many resources. Students 
had the chance to win a Google tablet if they answered these questions 
correctly.
The cupcakes came as a welcome 
gift at a point in the semester where 
most students spend too much time 
holed up in Hunt worrying about 
their ?nals. The pastries were certainly popular: Although the library 
staff advertised that the cupcakes 
would be available between 10 a.m. 
and 6 p.m., they ran out of cupcakes 
well before six.
But beyond offering free sugar, 
staff at the event tried to inform students about the librarys resources, 
both in Hunt and online. The trivia 
questions challenged students to 
learn more about the online databases on the librarys website and 
the different roles that the librarians 
play. The library staff was on hand to 
answer whatever questions students 
had about the library and its recent 
changes.
As students, we spend plenty of 
time in Club Hunt, but the library 
is more than just a study space. The 
librarians are ready and willing to 
teach students how to best utilize the 
myriad of resources available, but 
too often students do not use them. 
Our tuition money goes toward getting access to hundreds of online 
journals, research databases, printed 
materials, and the librarians who are 
there to help us; we might as well put 
that money to good use.
So, if you grabbed a cupcake on 
Thursday and didnt know the answers to the trivia questions, why 
not take the time to ?nd out? Those 
resources might make studying for 
exams or writing your ?nal papers 
a lot easier. The librarians would, of 
course, be more than happy to help 
you start using them.
Hunt Librarys efforts to raise awareness are sweet
Adelaide Cole/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

WILLIAM PARK
Finals are ?nally here. For most 
of the semester, its that inevitable 
week that raises little concern because it feels so far away; it seems 
insigni?cant in comparison to the 
daily grind of assignments and basic survival that make time move so 
slowly. The days add up, and before 
you know it, Thanksgiving comes 
and goes.
Suddenly, there is only one week 
left. Only now do you realize that 
those paper and project due dates  
both announced and forgotten the 
?rst day of classes  all somehow 
fall within just three days. Panic ensues, and theres no way the work 
will ever stop. The Mayans were 
wrong in predicting the apocalypse. 
Its not Dec. 21: Its ?nals week.
Eventually, the projects and 
papers get ?nished, but only after 
procrastination pushes you to the 
last moment when you induce a caffeinated-adrenaline wave and ride it 
until the hour most people wake up. 
Now, the only obstacle left between 
you and the 28X is the ?nal exam.
This is the test to rule them all  
literally. Half of your grade depends 
on this three-hour exam. The 10 assignments that took away many a 
nights sleep? Worthless. Forget to 
read that one chapter covered on 
the exam, and an entire semester of 
hard work can be thrown down the 
drain.
Wait a minute  calm down, 
breathe. Take comfort in the natural 
tendency for the worst assumptions 
to be proven untrue. In my experience, exams are never as terrible 
as expected. Finals for classes I was 
breezing through were no more dif?cult than previous assessments I 
had already mastered.
On the other hand, the ?nals for 
classes I was just barely surviving 
were no more torturous than the 
homework assignments I was only 
capable of half-doing. Grades arent 
signi?cantly changed on the very 
last day; they were determined the 
very day you decided how much effort you were willing to put into a 
course.
So youve been doing well in a 
course. You feel good, and you're 
con?dent that this ?nal will be a 
pleasant joke. Great, be con?dent, 
but please study. The ?nal will only 
be a joke if you maintain the work 
ethic that got you there. On the 
other hand, if youre barely ?oating 
and just want a dreaded course done 
with, study to guarantee passing. 
Dont let apathy lead you to repeating the course.
Now the great worry becomes, 
How do I study all the material presented in the semester? Simply, you 
dont. Its impossible to study the entire syllabus just as its impossible 
for the exam to cover every single 
potential topic. Dont read the entire 
textbook. Focus mainly on the latter 
material that has not yet been tested 
on. If theres time, review early lectures. Time is precious and must be 
used ef?ciently.
Whats more is that ?nals week is 
actually quite relaxing. There are no 
more due dates to worry about and 
no more morning classes to wake up 
for. Yes, theres the dreaded morning ?nal, but usually the schedule 
balances out so theres at least one 
day to sleep in. If not, theres always 
reading day. Take advantage of the 
opportunity to wake up late. Sleep 
tastes better than caffeine and, 
more importantly, helps consolidate 
short-term memory.
In my mind, ?nals are the relatively easy part. The projects, papers, and homework crammed into 
the last week of classes are the real 
stressful parts. Studying someone 
elses notes is not nearly as demanding as sketching portfolios or writing 
programs from scratch. So knock 
down those projects and the hardest part is over. But, whatever you 
do, dont lose focus. Keep up what 
youre doing and youll get the grade 
you deserve.
Stay sharp, but relax. Youre almost there. Soon, youll enjoy the 
best part of ?nals  when theyre 
?nally over.
William Park (wkp@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
December 3, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Dont panic too much over impending ?nals
Three changes could ?x ?scal cliff
KYLE HENSON
For those of you who dont know, 
the U.S. is currently facing what the 
Congressional Budget Of?ce has determined to be a 1.3 percent Gross 
Domestic Prouct (GDP) contraction 
for the ?rst half of 2013 as a result of 
the so called ?scal cliff, a combination of tax increases and spending 
cuts designed to reduce the de?cit.
This contraction would be the 
textbook de?nition of a recession (six months of negative GDP 
growth) and would do a number on 
our stagnating economy. Republicans and Democrats alike agree that 
we should avoid driving off the ?scal cliff so these negative effects are 
avoided, but disagree strongly on 
how to do it. Here is a three-step solution to avoiding the ?scal cliff and 
making government make sense.
First, pass further legislation for 
a fair tax. The fair tax essentially 
scraps all existing taxes, the IRS, 
and the 16th Amendment, which 
allows income taxation. It replaces 
these taxes with a two-part system 
for progressive revenue generation 
that raises the same amount of cash 
for the government as the current 
tax system in zero economic growth 
scenarios.
First, it levies a 23 percent sales 
tax on all goods sold in the U.S. 
Second, at the beginning of every 
month, each U.S. household receives 
a check in the mail for an advance rebate of all taxes on purchases up to 
the poverty level.
This means that if you make the 
poverty level for the size of your 
family  $30,260 for a family of 
four  and spent all of your income, 
you would get an advance rebate on 
those taxes paid. This is designed to 
make the tax progressive, meaning 
the rich pay more and the poor pay 
less. According to a report by the 
Beacon Hill Institute, the fair tax is 
more progressive, in fact, than the 
current tax code.
In addition to having innumerable bene?ts that make government 
fairer, simpler, more transparent, 
and just better in nearly every way, 
it gives Democrats and Republicans 
their wishes.
Democrats want a more progressive tax system. If the fair tax proved 
not to be progressive enough, the 
rate just has to be raised. This increase will make the rebate go up 
and more taxes will be collected on 
what is spent. As income rises, the 
rebate shrinks as a proportion of 
earnings, making the effective tax 
rate closer to the actual sales tax rate 
for the wealthy.
Similarly, conservatives dont 
want to raise taxes, and they want 
tax reform. The fair tax broadens 
the tax base, putting more income in 
play for taxation. This allows the fair 
tax to have a relatively low tax rate 
while still being more progressive 
than our current tax system. Similarly, it takes away the governments 
ability to create loopholes that many 
of the wealthy exploit to pay a lower 
effective rate than they should.
Most importantly, however, the 
fair tax will create economic growth 
that will increase tax revenue by putting more money in motion and by 
creating a more business friendly 
environment. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, 
GDP would increase by 10.5 percent 
the year after the fair tax legislation 
was passed.
While catapulting the nation out 
of recession, the fair tax would raise 
tremendous amounts of money for 
the government, achieving the desired de?cit reduction effects in a 
way that satis?es the basic wants of 
both parties.
Second, we need to ?x the way 
government approaches healthcare. 
While Medicare and Medicaid have 
fantastic intentions, they cost a lot of 
money. According to a report by the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, healthcare 
spending accounts for close to 18 
percent of GDP and is growing markedly faster than the economy is.
This means that health spending 
programs are increasing rapidly in 
cost as well. Realistically, someone 
needs to pay this increased cost every year.
Representative Paul Ryans (R
Wis.) budget block grants a set 
amount of money to each Medicare 
recipient and also grants Medicaid 
funding to states. The amount that is 
given rises each year, but not at the 
unsustainable rate that it has been 
rising.
While Republicans wanting seniors and the poor to pay more for 
their healthcare is an easy talking 
point for Democrats to exploit, the 
reality is, it makes sense that those 
receiving the services should help 
pay.
This would help reduce the de?-
cit by capping our healthcare spending over time. This would allow the 
?nite cost of programs like Medicare 
and Medicaid to be known well in 
advance and accounted for. This is 
also a gradual change that wouldnt 
have the immediate negative effect 
on GDP that the ?scal cliff would.
The last part of the ?scal cliff involves discretionary spending cuts. 
Often talked about but rarely acted 
upon, discretionary spending is not 
that large of a portion of total government spending and cutting it 
wouldnt have a very signi?cant impact on the economy. Cutting these 
programs is necessary if we want to 
meaningfully reduce the de?cit.
These are not mandated spending like social security is, but things 
like PBS, the Postal Service, and numerous other small projects. Cutting 
them doesnt have to mean eliminating them, but just making sure they 
run ef?ciently and optimally. 
This is already a part of the ?scal cliff, but it could be stretched out 
to last a few years rather than a few 
months, and wouldnt signi?cantly 
impact GDP.
These ideas are probably not 
going to be put into place anytime 
soon, but they show how, with a little creativity and the right attitude, 
Democrats and Republicans could 
easily work together and come up 
with some really innovative ideas 
that reduce the de?cit without delivering the economy a fatal blow.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
As the semester winds to a close, 
wed like to review some of our accomplishments and put an eye forward to the next semester. To start, 
wed really like to thank all of you 
for being so engaged in many of our 
initiatives this semester. Weve been 
very pleased with the turnout and 
the response of the community to our 
efforts.
Weve been very event focused 
this semester, with the largest successes being the beginning-of-theyear barbecue, our ?rst debatewatching party, our town hall, the 
football whiteout, and our electionresults party. We hope that these 
events have brought the campus a 
bit closer together and have offered 
meaningful outlets to get engaged in 
our community.
We were involved in the election 
and the buildup to it. Initially we 
were planning to carry out a largescale registration campaign, but instead we found that many third parties on campus had greater resources 
as far as manpower than we did. In 
light of this, we worked with those 
groups, looking to provide them with 
information to make sure they were 
correctly registering students. To 
supplement their efforts, we focused 
on informing students with our debate-watching event and voting-day 
guide.
On the more policy side, we 
worked throughout the semester to 
assist Vice President for Finance Jon 
Mark in creating his referendum to 
increase the student activities fee, 
and we are very happy to have seen 
the campus turnout and the student 
support to help us make this change. 
Weve also met with several heads 
of different campus services to audit 
their feedback processes and will be 
reporting these ?ndings in our endof-the-semester report.
Weve worked on various other 
committees; Board of Directors had 
successful collaboration, especially 
through the start of the semester 
with the barbecue and our elections 
events. For instance, Will represented the student body on a committee 
that is revising the university policy 
on sexual harassment and assault.
To collect feedback we have utilized our of?ce hours and our town 
hall. We have seen positive responses 
to these events, and we thank you for 
turning out to share your opinions. 
Many of the ideas weve been presented with have been passed on to 
Senate members, as they are more 
suited to handle many of the issues 
that have been presented to us. Our 
slate was very full this semester, so 
we admittedly pushed off some of the 
feedback we received, which will be 
addressed next semester.
Weve been happy with our public relations efforts, both digital and 
with posters. Through some unexpected complications, the release of 
our new logo and blog were delayed, 
but both will be fully utilized and distributed at the start of next semester.
Well detail these initiatives further in our end-of-the-semester report, which will be posted on our 
Facebook page by the end of ?nals 
week. This will go in detail into the 
pros and cons of the semester, plans 
for next semester, and details from 
our meetings with campus services.
Once more, thank you for all 
your feedback and support this semester. We are looking forward to 
continuing to serve you next semester. Please send us ideas for how we 
can better represent you via email at 
sbp@andrew.cmu.edu and sbvp@
andrew.cmu.edu or on our Facebook 
at facebook.com/cmusbp.
Have a great ?nals week everyone!
Will Weiner and Meela Dudley
Student Body President and Vice 
President
LEADERSHIP PERSPECTIVEStudent government execs outline accomplishments of semester
Republicans 
and Democrats 
alike agree that 
we should avoid 
driving off the 
?scal cliff so these 
negative effects 
are avoided, but 
disagree strongly 
on how to do it.
Annette Ko/Junior Artist
Josh Smith/Forum Editor
Josh Smith/Forum Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  December 3, 2012
Compiled by Jonathan Carreon and Jennifer ColomaA PERSONS OPINION
As fun as the season is, some people dont enjoy the holidays. So we asked,
What holiday would you get rid of?
CHLOE THOMPSON
The question of electronic privacy 
is a big issue these days. What with 
our personal lives splattered all over 
Facebook and Twitter, maintaining 
privacy while participating in the online world can be dif?cult.
But even if you dont use social 
networking sites, a good chunk of 
personal information is probably 
stored in your cell phone. And this 
doesnt only apply to smartphones  
every cell phone has text messages, 
contacts, and other private data.
As more and more information 
ends up stored in our technological 
devices, the question arises: How 
safe is that information? Or, perhaps 
more importantly, how much should 
we protect that information?
These questions are being hotly 
debated in legislatures all over the 
country, especially when it comes 
to cell phones. Some, such as the 
Supreme Court of California, argue 
that ?nding a cell phone on a suspect 
grants police the right to search it. 
Others, such as the Supreme Court of 
Ohio, argue that cell phones contains 
highly personal information, and can 
only be searched with a warrant.
Of course, having easy access to 
the information in cell phones would 
be a godsend to police when it comes 
to ?nding criminals. In 2009, the accidental search of a cell phone led to 
solving a childs murder, according to 
an article in The New York Times.
Trisha Oliver, mother of six-yearold Marco Nieves, called 911 to report that her son was unconscious. 
An of?cer arrived at her apartment 
after the ambulance, and Oliver let 
him inside before following her son 
to the hospital. While she was gone, 
the of?cer heard a cell phone go off 
 it belonged to Olivers boyfriend, 
Michael Patino, who lived in the 
apartment as well. The text message, 
from Oliver, reportedly said, Wat if I 
got 2 take him 2 da hospital wat do I 
say and dos marks on his neck omg.
Nieves eventually died from blunt 
force trauma to the abdomen, and 
Patino was arrested for murder. However, Rhode Island Superior Court 
Associate Justice Judith Savage eventually overturned those charges, ruling that the information that played a 
signi?cant role in Patinos conviction 
was unlawfully obtained.
The issue of electronic privacy 
came to a head this past Thursday, 
when a Senate committee discussed 
changes to the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA). Police 
now need a search warrant to access 
email or any type of electronic communication (such as data stored with 
Facebook or Google). The changes 
proposed do not discuss cell phones 
speci?cally, leaving mobile devices 
on murky legal ground.
Although these changes de?nitely 
clarify the status of electronic information in Americas legal system, 
lets take a moment to consider this: 
When do you think the ECPA was 
originally written? If you guessed 
1986, youre right on the money.
Until last Thursday, an act that 
had a sizable impact on the way our 
legal system dealt with electronic 
information had not been revised in 
over 20 years. The technology we use 
every day did not even exist 20 years 
ago. Having technology laws that are 
obviously outdated is a dangerous 
situation.
Of course, the courts cannot keep 
up with every technological change, 
but this gap in reform is ridiculous. 
Cell phones in 1986 were essentially 
bricks you could talk to people on. 
Cell phones today are little boxes 
of wizardry; you can call people, of 
course, but with a smartphone you 
can also book a plane ?ight, locate 
every Starbucks in a ?ve-mile radius, 
and play Angry Birds.
Cell phones stopped functioning 
as only phones a long time ago. They 
are tiny personalized computers, 
with a whole lot of sensitive and private data that we just happen to carry 
everywhere in our pockets.
The police should not be able to 
search cell phones without warrants, 
even though that information can be 
extraordinarily useful sometimes. In 
Nieves case, that information proved 
invaluable in ?nding his killer, and 
Patino should be brought to justice.
But cell phones are a new frontier 
in private information  a frontier 
that must be protected.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
In the age of smartphones, privacy reform for tech is necessary
Chad Trice
Math
First-year
St. Patricks Day.
Chan Teng
ChemE
Junior
Fall break  its only one day.
Seun Aremu
CivE
Masters student
Earth Day.
Jamie Rupert
Policy & Management
Sophomore
Labor Day.
Remy Behl
CivE
Junior
Valentines Day.
congratulates its newly elected 2013 EDITORIAL STAFF
JENNIFER COLOMA
Publisher
JOSH SMITH
Editor-in-Chief
KELSEY SCOTT
Operations Manager
BRENT HEARD
News Co-Editor
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
BRADEN KELNER
Forum Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
JUSTIN McGOWN
Online Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor

---------------------------------------------------

December 3, 2012  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
GABRIELLE WEST
Staffwriter
The Tartans were defeated 
by the Juniata College Eagles 
and the Adrian College Bulldogs this week, leaving their 
record 16.
Carnegie Mellon played 
the Eagles Tuesday in a constant battle for the lead. After the ?rst four minutes of 
the game, the Tartans lagged 
behind in scoring, until senior guard Andre Moore was 
fouled a 15-foot fade-away 
jumper which he was able to 
connect on. This shot tied the 
game with less than a second 
to go. He missed the and-one 
attempt at the free-throw 
line, though, and the Tartans 
played an additional ?ve minutes in overtime.
The Tartans were unable to 
score until there was 1:58 left 
on the clock after the Eagles 
went on an 80 run, which 
was ended by junior forward 
Rob Mohens jump shot. 
Due to their intense defense, the Tartans were able 
to cut the Eagles lead down 
to six, but they fell short of 
the win with a ?nal score of 
7670. 
Four of the Tartans ?nished with double-digit 
points: Junior forward Sean 
Brophy had 10 while sophomore forward Matt Loebakka, 
Moore, and Mohen ?nished 
with 12 points each.
After their loss to Juniata, 
the Tartans faced the undefeated Adrian College. 
The lead went back and 
forth until the 11-minute 
mark when the Bulldogs went 
on a 100 run. The Bulldogs 
run stopped short when ?rstyear Blake Chasen made a 
jump shot off of senior guard 
Asad Meghanis assist. 
The ?rst half ended with 
the Tartans trailing by eight.
The second half was a 
tough one for the Tartans. 
Adrian College players were 
able to increase their lead by 
29 points with ?ve minutes 
left of play. 
The Tartans and their defense were able to decrease 
the de?cit to 10 but were not 
able to achieve the win, with 
a ?nal score of 6251.
The Tartans next opponent is Catholic College, 
which they will play at home 
at 2 p.m. on Saturday.
We made the stops on defense that we needed to in the 
?rst half, but our own shots 
were not falling, sophomore 
guard Seth Cordts said. We 
have been preparing by focusing on the little things so that 
when the Catholic comes we 
will be shooting better and 
have better ball control. 
Mens basketball cant ?nd winning formula
ADAM GRUBER
Sports Co-Editor
Womens basketball had 
a busy week, playing three 
games in six days. The Tartans 
won two of those games and 
lost one.
In both victories, the Tartans held their opponents 
under 30 points, beating 
Pennsylvania State University Altoona, 8827, and Hiram College, 6129. The loss 
came at the hands of John 
Carroll University by a score 
of 7054.
The Tartans now sit at 52 
on this young season.
On Monday, the Tartans 
faced the Penn State Altoona 
Nittany Lions on the road. 
With four players scoring in 
double ?gures, the Tartans 
absolutely dominated the Nittany Lions.
Sophomore forward Gabrielle West came off the 
bench to lead the team in scoring with 16 points on a nearly 
perfect shooting night, going 
six for seven from the ?eld. 
First-year forward Mathea 
Tenwalde, also coming off the 
bench, added 15 points. 
The last two double-?gure scorers were ?rst-year 
guard Lindsay Poss and ?rstyear forward Liza Otto, with 
13 points and 10 points, 
respectively.
While the Tartans were 
able to rain baskets on the Nittany Lions defense, their defense was just as dominating.
The Tartans held Penn 
State Altoona to an ice-cold 
17.7 percent shooting and 
outrebounded the Nittany Lions 4523.
On Wednesday, the Hiram 
College Terriers came to Pittsburgh to face the Tartans. In 
similar fashion to the game 
against Penn State Altoona, 
the Tartans defense was suffocating.
The Terriers only scored 
nine points in the second half 
and the Tartans forced 28 
turnovers, scoring 22 points 
off those turnovers.
Senior forward Emily Peel 
led the way with 17 points 
on ?ve for 11 shooting. Peel 
pulled down seven rebounds 
as well. Otto contributed a 
double-double, scoring 11 
points and grabbing 11 rebounds.
The defensive strategy is 
always about attacking and 
being aggressive in order to 
create opportunities offensively, Poss said. 
Our plan was to execute 
the defense in such a way that 
maximized turnovers for the 
other teams, she added.
The Tartans played at 
home again on Saturday, this 
time coming up short and 
ending their four-game winning streak at the hands of 
the John Carroll University 
Lobos.
Despite Peels 12 points 
on six for nine shooting and 
junior guard Jacquie Shaws 
well-rounded game  she 
contributed seven rebounds 
and four assists  the Tartans poor shooting limited 
any chance at a victory.
The teams 31 percent 
shooting could not match 
up against the 43.3 percent 
shooting of the Lobos. The Lobos were able to shoot a high 
percentage because of easy 
baskets, scoring 10 fastbreak 
points to the Tartans two. Additionally, 24 Tartan turovers 
led to 26 Lobo points-off turnovers.
The loss is a combination of factors, but can mostly 
be attributed to a lack of rebounding and frantic, unorganized defensive pressure, 
Poss said.
On Tuesday, the Tartans 
will take on Allegheny College 
at home. Tipoff is at 6 p.m.
Editors note: Gabrielle West is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Womens basketball ?nds sti?ing defense in victories
Jennifer Coloma/Operations Manager
Sophomore guard Chandler Cau?eld has started in all seven games this season.
Kate Groschner/Staff Photographer
First-year Jason Sebak is playing 15 minutes a game, getting quality experience in his ?rst season.

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  December 3, 2012
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Professional athletes are 
always trying to ?nd a way 
to stay ahead of the curve, to 
gain a competitive advantage 
on the ?eld. This has manifested itself through the use 
of steroids, amphetamines, 
human growth hormones, 
and other substances not 
commonly used by the general public.
But with recent advancements in drug testing capabilities, along with stricter testing policies in each league, 
players are turning more toward drugs that are used by a 
large part of the population, 
since they are generally less 
restricted and more explainable during random drug 
tests.
Adderall and Viagra have 
both been in the news recently as uncommon performance enhancing drugs 
(PEDs). Chicago Bears wide 
receiver Brandon Marshall 
said in an interview with 
ESPN that he knew of many 
teammates that used Viagra 
before games for its bloodthinning properties.
Viagra was the focus of a 
recent medical investigation 
into the possible enhancement effects of common 
medication, but no strong 
conclusions could be made. 
Subsequently, Viagra was 
still allowed in the most recent collective bargaining 
agreement.
Adderall, while banned 
by the NFL, carries much 
less public stigma than traditional PEDs because of its 
common use as both a prescription ADHD medication 
and as a common illicit drug 
on college campuses to help 
students gain extra energy 
for all-nighters.
In the last six weeks, the 
NFL has had six players suspended, or subject to suspension, for failing drug tests; 
Seattle Seahawks starting 
cornerbacks Brandon Browner and Richard Sherman are 
currently in the process of 
appealing their four-game 
bans. Because of the privacy 
rules established in the latest 
collective bargaining agreement, neither the NFL nor the 
NFL Players Associaton can 
disclose what a player tested 
positive for.
All six of these players 
have publicly claimed that 
they failed the drug tests due 
to the presence of Adderall in 
their systems.
NFL players have been 
known to use Adderall during training camp. This helps 
keep up their energy both 
during practices to study 
their playbooks, schemes, 
and formations, as well as 
during games. It gives them 
an additional focus and energy boost. 
Adderall is also allowed 
by the leagues if players can 
prove they have legitimate 
prescriptions. Both the NFL 
and MLB have independent 
boards of physicians who 
check players request for a 
waiver to use Adderall if they 
have ADHD. This review process is quite tedious, given 
the ease with which players 
can falsely obtain both prescriptions and diagnoses. 
While it is conceivable 
that all of these players were 
taking Adderall and were 
oblivious enough to fail their 
drug tests, one has to question if some of these players 
are jumping on the Adderall 
bandwagon to hide other 
PED use. 
This year, highly suspected PED users Barry Bonds, 
Sammy Sosa, and Roger 
Clemens are eligible for the 
Baseball Hall of Fame for the 
?rst time. While their stats 
and play alone are clearly 
among the best in the history 
of the sport, their candidacy 
is in doubt due to the asterisk most associate with their 
performances.
If we allow players to hide 
behind the screen of less stigmatic drugs, like Adderall or 
Viagra, we will never truly 
know if their talents are their 
own, or those of a drug. 
The NFLs inability to currently disclose which substances players test positive 
for also forces the league to 
use the same punishments for 
all PEDs, regardless of severity. Adderall should not come 
with the same ban as human 
growth hormone or steroids 
due to the large discrepancy 
in their enhancement effects.
PEDs will always be a part 
of professional sports, since 
the same competitive drive 
that got players to the top 
will also drive them to ?nd 
any means necessary to stay 
there. By allowing players 
to hide behind a veil of privacy, we have stopped holding them accountable in the 
court of public opinion.
While sports have succeeded in holding players 
more accountable for their 
actions, the public is still left 
in the dark.
SPORTS COMMENTARYViagra providing athletes a head up
Tartans swim in ?nal meet of 2012
ALEX TAPAK
Sports Co-Editor
The Tartan swimming and 
diving team took a few days 
off school to travel to Gambier, Ohio, to compete in the 
Total Performance Invitational hosted by Kenyon College.
Carnegie Mellon faced 
the University of Pennsylvania, Kenyon College, Davidson College, and Grove City 
College, as well as Lake Erie 
College for the men, and 
University of Findlay for the 
women. The mens team ?nished in third place with 523 
points, and the womens team 
?nished in fourth with 461 
points.
The mens team quali?ed 
for the championship ?nals in 
many events. In the 200-yard 
butter?y, senior Brandon Yee 
placed seventh with a time of 
1:55.59. First-year Philip Farr 
got a sixth-place ?nish in the 
100-yard breaststroke with a 
time of 58.43. Lastly, sophomore David Campbell took 
sixth place in the 400-yard relay medley.
This past weekend was 
another long weekend, and as 
a team I think we did great, 
sophomore Cole Um said. No 
matter how frustrating it was, 
we continuted to compete.
The womens team also 
had some strong ?nishes in 
the championship ?nals. In 
the 100-yard breaststroke, junior Tatiana Duchak ?nished 
fourth with a time of 1:06.37. 
Junior Soleil Phan ?nished in 
fourth place in the 400-yard 
relay medley in the championship ?nals with a time of 
4:30.53, and sophomore Kelley Sheehan ?nished seventh 
with a time of 4:37.11.
Phan also ?nished ?fth in 
the 100-yard butter?y with 
a time of 56.83, and senior 
Price Kinney ?nished sixth in 
the 200-yard butter?y with a 
time of 2:26.30.
The Tartans are ?nished 
swimming for the semester, 
but get back in the water hosting Westminster University 
and the State University of 
New York at Geneseo on Jan. 
19 at home in the University 
Center.
Ultimate team defeats Pitt in tourney
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
Eager and enthusiastic junior goalkeeper 
Anna Albi helped to lead the Carnegie Mellon 
womens soccer team to a historic season.
The Tartans had a groundbreaking season this year, making the Elite Eight in the 
NCAA Division-III Tournament and ?nishing 
with a remarkable 1415 record. The team 
also boasts many individual and coaching 
awards.
The winning record is a signi?cant improvement from previous years, as the Tartans set a school record with 14 wins this season. When Albi was a ?rst-year, the team was 
ranked last in the conference.
When we talked about our goals, we always would say it would be nice if we got 
there, but it was a dream come true when we 
were actually in it, Albi said. We worked 
hard and ?nally got there.
Anna was a crucial member of the team, 
an anchor, and we wouldnt have gotten as far 
without her, said senior captain Stephanie 
Hare. Albi was named the University Athletic 
Associations Womens Soccer Defensive Player of the Week three times this past season 
to add to her list of accolades from previous 
seasons. Albi earned the award for her performance in the third round and quarter?nal of 
the NCAA tournament.
In the teams tie against Emory University, 
Albi recorded her ninth shutout of the season and set a new school record for 
14 in her career. Albi also made ?ve 
saves over Wheaton College and 
?ve in the tie against Emory. She 
?nished the season giving up just 
eight goals and recorded an average of .41, which is the second 
best in Carnegie Mellon history.
The 300 fans that 
were there were 
chanting my name. 
It was simply incredible, Albi 
said.
It was 
nice to get the 
[UAA] 
recognition also, 
Albi said. 
But always 
putting 
her teammates 
?rst, she said, it 
also re?ected a lot on 
the great defensive players we have.
Hailing from Cincinnati, Ohio, Albi is a 
veteran of the sport of 
soccer, having played on 
teams since she was three years old. Ive 
been playing since they would tell us 
that the goal box was a mouth and 
the ball was a gumball that needed 
to go into the mouth, she said. 
Soccer is an incredible sport. I 
just love the team and that rush 
when I make a great catch.
Albi said that Carnegie Mellons soccer 
program is a perfect 
?t. For Albi, it offers 
the best of both 
worlds, combining a challenging 
academic environment with a 
very competitive DivisionIII soccer program.
Albi is 
currently 
a creative 
writing 
and professional 
writing double 
major who wants 
to graduate early 
and attend graduate 
school at Carnegie 
Mellon. She would 
have the opportunity to compete for another 
year.
Assuming that Ill be on the team another 
year, then our goal would most de?netly be 
to make it back to the Elite Eight, Albi said. 
It will be challenging because we are losing 
a bunch of our starters, but I believe we can 
do it again.
Albi emphasized the unity of the team as 
the key factor in the teams success. We were 
united under one goal and one drive. Everyone worked their butts off together, she said.
From meals before home games to traveling across the country, the common theme for 
Albi is consistently team.
Our coach describes our team to recruits 
that come visit as a family, and thats exactly 
what we are, Albi said.
Her teammates believe that Albi was a key 
factor in the teams unity, bringing people together with her leadership qualities. One of 
our main goals was to become more of a team, 
and I think that Anna really helped us unify 
through her positive attitude, spirit, and personality, Hare said.
Albi recalls the teams trip to New York 
City to compete against New York University, 
where Coach Yon Struble had the family 
play a trivia game where the winner received 
an envelope that had tickets to the Broadway 
musical Wicked in it. Needless to say, screams 
and excitement ensued.
Out of millions of memories, that would 
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Ultimate 
team Mr. Yuk hosted the Steel 
City Showdown and won two 
out of three games on Nov. 19.
The home tournament 
was a great atmosphere. We 
had a nice turnout, senior 
Benjamin McGrath said. The 
other teams were great guests, 
and it was a nice ?nal tune-up 
before the regular season begins in the spring semester.
In the ?rst game, Carnegie 
Mellon battled neighbor University of Pittsburgh and won 
in a closely contested game. 
The team began with a rough 
start, but became more disciplined soon after and tied the 
game at 66. Mr. Yuk dominated the game, defeating the 
University of Pittsburgh  Panthers 139.
Mr. Yuk has shown discipline, talent, and growth over 
these last few months, said 
?rst-year B-team captain Vinay Viswanathan.
The team then played Ohio 
State University, and Yuk 
broke on the second point so 
that Carnegie Mellon went 
up 20. The game was soon 
tied at 4-all, but Mr. Yuk increased its lead to 74. Ohio 
State fought back again, but 
not hard enough, as Carnegie 
Mellon pulled out another 
139 victory.
The next game against 
Ohio University did not go as 
well as the two others. Carnegie Mellon quickly took the 
lead, going up 42. After a key 
mistake by Carnegie Mellon, 
Ohio University took the lead 
and continued controlling the 
game.
That was a really disappointing loss. Ohios a great 
team and top 20 in the country, McGrath said. So I have 
to give them credit, but thats 
a game we have to win, we 
didnt force enough turnovers, 
and we didnt make life dif?-
cult for Ohio.
The ?nal result was not 
in Carnegie Mellons favor, 
as Yuk lost 1215. The conference will continue to get 
harder as a result of an improving program in Cincinnati and Pennsylvania State 
Universitys continuing effort. 
In the spring season, though, 
the Carnegie Mellon Ultimate 
team hopes to continue its 
dominance.
ATHLETE PROFILEAnna Albi re?ects on Tartans Elite Eight ?nish this season
Jonathan Leung/Staff Photographer
The Tartans push off from the blocks to begin the backstroke event.
Courtesy of Jeremy Kanter
Senior Dave Matlack lays out to intercept the disk.
Courtesy of Jeremy Kanter
First-year Ross Ellison skies over two University of Pittsburgh players.
Jonathan Carreon/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Angels in America
The School of Drama presents an 
intense and engaging show  B6
12.03.12 Volume 107, Issue 13
The City & the City
Multimedia exhibit features works by 
London writers and artists  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Puzzles
Your brain is soft from preparing for finals. 
Toughen it up with this weeks puzzles.
11
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2012 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Christa Hester EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Emily Dobler
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Nicole Hamilton 
ART EDITOR Adelaide Cole PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Carreon 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Chloe Lula
8
46710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about foreign 
travels and satisfying pizza cravings.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Hashtag Fashion
Find solutions to fashion woes for people of 
every shape and size. 
3
ScotchnSoda
Moon Over Buffalo was a charming, sweet, 
and crazy ride through show biz. 
4
Killing Them SoftlyThis violence-heavy crime drama transitions 
sloppily from page to screen.
5
Angels in AmericaThe latest production from the School of 
Drama is intense and engaging.
6
The WeekndTrilogy, the latest album from The Weeknd, is a 
sexy new take on older material.
7
The City & the City
The Wood Street Galleries exhibit features a 
collection of London-themed pieces.
8
Breaking Dawn
The final Twilight installment satisfies fans 
despite subpar acting performances. 
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that 25 years ago, over 150 
students were arrested at parties on campus?
10Comics
See what adventures lurk in the depths of the 
sea or try to escape the octo-kitty.  
12
Horoscopes
The sky is too cloudy to consult the stars; read 
Horoscopes to find your future.
14
Calendar
Find out whats happening on campus and 
around Pittsburgh this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

fashion
pillbox 12.03.123
Boost your self-esteem
Discover fashion solutions speci?c to your body type
Self-esteem is a double-edged sword when it comes 
to the fashion world. You need to have enough 
confidence to wear certain things, but its almost 
impossible to have self-esteem when youre not 
the right shape or size. Below are solutions to 
problems for girls of a variety of body types.
My pants are too long, but the size is perfect. 
Help! #shortgirlproblems
Rolling the cuffs is both a practical and a stylish 
solution. If your pants are so long that you need the 
cuffs rolled more than twice, hem the pant legs. You 
may be shorter than most, but you deserve pants 
that fit.
My shirt is too long for my torso, but its 
super cute! #shortgirlproblems
Your solution is to wear crop tops: Theyll actually 
look like normal tops on you. Another option is to cut 
your normal-length tops. If you dont trust yourself 
with scissors, get a friend to help you out.
My skirt is always perceived as being too 
short, even though its a normal length. What 
do I do? #tallgirlproblems
Wear bandage skirts: These skirts hug your body so 
tightly, itll be clear exactly how long or short they 
really are. Alternately, depending on your personality 
type, high-low skirts are wonderful for appearing 
modest without looking like a nun. And if two of 
your favorite things are long skirts and not looking 
like a nun, flowy maxi skirts or dresses are the way 
to go.
The inseam of my pants is too short. How do I 
fix this? #tallgirlproblems
You want taller shoes, and by taller, I dont mean 
higher: The shaft of the shoe should go past your 
ankles, because that way, the short pants will look 
stylish. Other options include rolling the hem once 
to make the length look intentional, or just hiding 
the hems under tall boots.
Im short, but not thin. In fact, Im pretty 
thick. How do I find anything that fits me? 
#shortthickgirlproblems
It helps to know your measurements before going 
to a store. Also, some cuts and styles wont look as 
good on you as they would on someone else; this 
goes for all body types. This means that you have 
to find what works for you and capitalize on it. The 
most common problem for short, thick women is 
that pants tend to fit in one place but not in the 
other. When your pants fit around the thighs but not 
the waist, get the waist tucked in by a tailor.
Having self-esteem with clothing stems from 
knowing how to do right by your body. Once you 
know a few tricks to keep clothes fitted (safety pins 
and double-sided tape, anyone?), youll be well on 
your way to being perpetually stylish, no matter 
what type of body you have.
Khadijat Yussuff | Staffwriter
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Im going to be traveling 
to another country over 
winter break. Ive only 
traveled overseas a little. 
I did my research; I know 
what I want to see and do 
already. What else can I 
do to make this a blast?
Thanks,
Parting America Soon, 
Seeking Portentous 
Opportunities, Risky Trips
Dear PASSPORT,
Let me guess: Youre taking 
this trip to find yourself and 
experience new cultures  
maybe prep for backpacking 
across Europe after you 
graduate. Thats traveling 
for hippies. You should 
travel like an American. 
For starters, dont bother 
learning their language; most 
of them probably speak 
American too. If they pretend 
they dont understand, 
just talk slower and louder. 
Theyll catch on.
Some people will tell you 
that you should pretend to 
be a Canadian when you 
travel, but if you do that, the 
terrorists win. Break out your 
most patriotic Fourth of July 
gear so everyone knows you 
come from the No. 1 country 
on the planet. Throw on a 
fanny pack too; its practical 
and fashionable. If anyone 
starts giving you trouble, just 
remind them were back-toback World War champs. 
Why are you traveling 
anyway? If your country 
doesnt have drive-thru gun 
and liquor stores, then its 
not worth visiting.
Murica!
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Its the middle of the 
night, I just got back 
from the bar, and I want 
some pizza. All the pizza 
places are closed, but I 
have some leftovers in 
my fridge. You must have 
some pizza-reheating 
tips. Care to share?
Thanks,
Craving Reheated 
Appetizing Vittles, I Need 
Good Suggestions
Dear CRAVINGS,
Lucky for you, I am a fan 
of pizza and an excellent 
chef. By that I mean I know 
how to reheat food. Now, 
there are a few different 
methods of reheating pizza 
available to you, and the 
key to choosing which 
method to use is how much 
youve had to drink. If the 
answer is nothing, then you 
can take the time for some 
fancier reheating. Too much, 
and youll wind up eating 
dough and chomping into 
tomatoes. 
For the quickest reheating 
method, put a glass of 
water in the microwave with 
your pizza. That keeps the 
pizza from getting soggy. 
Scientists say well never 
know why this method 
works, but it does. If youre 
feeling super fancy, pop the 
pizza in the oven for ten 
minutes (just be sure to turn 
the oven on first). Bonus 
points for a toaster oven.
Enjoy that cheesy 
goodness,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About traveling and reheating pizza

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 12.03.12
Mistaken identities, aging actors desperate to redeem 
themselves, love gone awry, and a whole lot of drunken 
antics made for quite the crazy ride in ScotchnSodas 
latest production, Moon Over Buffalo. Presented Friday 
and Saturday in McConomy Auditorium and co-directed 
by sophomore chemical engineering major Evan 
Starkweather and sophomore international relations 
and politics major Razghiem Golden, the show was 
a whirlwind that featured few characters, but lots of 
laughs.
The plot was a labyrinth of catastrophes: an extramarital 
affair (or two or three), a life-or-death matine, and 
George S. Patton bound and gagged in the closet. 
Although a plot this jam-packed with calamities has the 
potential to be overwhelming and ridiculous (and not 
in a good way), Starkweather and Golden balanced the 
crazy with plenty of moments of sanity and sweetness, 
making the outrageous story easier to swallow.
The set was cleverly planned with ?ve doors, allowing for 
the action to ?ow across the stage  albeit somewhat 
clumsily in parts  and the costumes were vibrant and 
well done.
Junior creative writing major Chelsea Bartel was a true 
force of nature as the wildly dramatic diva Charlotte 
Hay, wife of sophomore vocal performance major Ethan 
Crystals George and mother of ?rst-year dramaturgy 
major Holly Dennis Roz. The chemistry between Bartel 
and Crystal was sincere and genuine, becoming a true 
driving force for the story and the play. Their banter and 
eventual epiphanies were only made more hilarious and 
heartwarming by the way the actors interacted with 
each other, physically and otherwise. Their back-andforth was as lively and well timed as a fast-paced tennis 
match  true comedic gold.
Crystals timing was a large part of the hilarity of the 
play; his drunken antics were positively uproarious. 
From his facial expressions to the ?uidity of his vocals as 
an actor playing an actor, he crafted a personality that 
was lovable and raucous. Equally humorous as a sober 
man and as a drunk, Crystal was a true stage presence.
The extramarital interests of Mr. and Mrs. Hay, senior 
decision sciences major Kevin Handerhan as Richard 
and senior psychology and biology double major Diane 
Koeller as Eileen, both shone in their smaller roles 
as well. Handerhan, playing the Hays lawyer and 
representative, was the very essence of charming and 
suave from the second he stepped through one of the 
many doors. In a wonderfully clever character twist, he 
was able to go from the de?nition of classy to childish 
and wounded, a transition that he accomplished with 
grace and ease.
Koellers Eileen was sweet and ironically innocent, 
considering she was carrying Georges baby. Her wideeyed and slightly ditzy characterization would have 
made the affair hard to buy in to in any other show  
but in this production, where the absurd was common, 
the irony only made her character more believable.
First-year vocal performance major Shannyn Rinker 
stole the show as Ethel, the elderly grandma with a 
hearing problem and a spunky streak. Cute as a button 
and convincing as a senior citizen (a challenging task), 
Rinker played the part well. Her spirited rivalry with 
George was a favorite aspect of the family dynamic, 
drawing consistently exuberant laughter from the 
crowd at every major battle. Her signature Ohhh! 
that punctuated every plot twist quickly became an 
indication that things were about to get crazy, and her 
missing hearing aid caused more than a few problems 
for the entire cast of kooks.
Equally as endearing was senior ethics, history, and 
public policy major Andrew Minton, who played Rozs 
soon-to-be left-in-the-dust ?anc, Howard. Mintons 
Howard was adorably sweet and spineless, the kind of 
all-around good guy who never gets the girl. Though the 
part was one of the smaller ones in the show, Minton 
reveled in it, and as a result he charmed his way into the 
hearts of the audience members.
Rozs ex-?anc was played by Derek Lessard, a junior 
double major in engineering and public policy and 
mechanical engineering. Lessards character, Paul, 
was arguably the most serious of the characters, which 
had the potential to make his performance fall ?at. But 
instead of coming off as boring and strict in comparison 
to the insanity around him, Lessard managed to create 
a character that was controlled, smooth, and convincing 
 adding that extra something that made the show that 
much more reminiscent of real life.
Roz herself was another more serious character, 
providing a contrast to the rest of her family. This 
contrast was appropriate in that Roz desired nothing 
more than to get away from the craziness that was live 
theater. She was a breath of fresh air throughout the 
crazy story, and yet she managed to add some drama of 
her own at the same time.
Overall, the entire play was enjoyable and well done. 
Theres just something about live theater that a 
generation raised on movies and YouTube videos 
doesnt get to appreciate enough. Everyone should seize 
the opportunity to experience live theater as often as 
possible, especially when its theater of this quality.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Courtesy of The Thistle
ScotchnSoda put on a well-performed and absurdly 
hilarious production of Moon Over Buffalo this past 
weekend.
Moon Over Buffalo ?aunts student talent
ScotchnSoda strikes comedic gold with hilarious, entertaining production

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 12.03.125
Killing Them Softly opens with career criminal Frankie 
(Scoot McNairy) walking through a sea of trash amid 
audio of a pre-presidential Barack Obama speech, 
interspersed with title cards and accompanied by a low, 
droning tone. It seems that every time a character is in 
a car there is a political speech on the radio, and the 
televisions in bars or restaurants all show 2008 campaign 
speeches from Obama.
This political undercurrent turns out to be a major 
instance of foreshadowing, as the more message-driven 
aspects of the movie unfold. The economic crisis is 
the explanation for the use of political propaganda; the 
characters in the ?lm are all motivated by money. The 
main theme of the ?lm is choice: Make a good choice 
and you will be rewarded; make a bad choice and you 
pay the price. This theme is used as an analogy for how 
America works as a whole  everyone is trying to get 
ahead, rather than work together as a community.
The movie is based on the novel Cogans Trade by 
George V. Higgins, so its easy to see why some of the 
subject matter feels better suited to a form other than 
cinema. The ?lm is undoubtedly entertaining, but one 
might wonder why symbolism plays such a large part.
Brad Pitt appears in a role he must be comfortable with 
by now: the man with all the answers. He plays Jackie 
Cogan, a ma?a hit man and a consultant to the more 
af?uent ma?a members. His colleague Driver (Richard 
Jenkins) is a representative for the richest members of 
the ma?a, and he needs Cogan to get rid of Frankie and 
the rest of the men who perpetrated a crime against the 
ma?a.
While each actor does well with his screen time, it 
is clear that Pitt monopolizes the movie. Ray Liottas 
character Markie Trattman, a ma?a member who runs a 
gambling ring, could easily have had a larger role in the 
?lm.
James Gandol?ni plays a similar small role as Mickey, 
a hit man whom Cogan contracts, but never delivers 
on the deal. Gandol?nis character serves as a symbol 
for society at large: He would rather have sex and 
drink than do the work he was hired to do. This kind of 
symbolism, like the portrayal of drug use to represent 
the degradation of society, might have been richer in the 
novel. In the ?lm, drug addiction seems like a tangent.
The R rating for this movie is de?nitely earned. 
Tremendous amounts of violence ?ll the screen, perhaps 
too much for particularly squeamish viewers. Most of 
the scenes containing violence are almost Tarantinoesque and are very well done. The ?lms treatment of 
drug use is ?eeting, but the repetitive nature of one 
scene, wherein Russell (Ben Mendelsohn) uses heroin, 
making him too distracted to face his problems, pulls the 
viewer away from the driving plot of the ?lm. This type 
of technique might be better suited for a text piece, as 
the adaptation is limited by the visual format. In a novel, 
where extra emphasis can be placed on character, drug 
use would be a more prevalent theme.
A lot of dark humor comes through in the dialogue, an 
added touch that only makes the ?lm better. The ?lm 
poses the question, Is America a community? Cogan 
answers, A community? Dont make me laugh. America 
isnt even a country; its a business. Now pay me. This 
dark humor plays a special role at the end of the movie 
that may leave the viewer unsatis?ed at ?rst, but only 
because the credits come so suddenly.
If youre a fan of the crime ?lm genre, go see this movie. 
You might get hit over the head with symbolism, 
especially at the very end of the movie, but Killing Them 
Softly is still an entertaining movie with a great cast.
Christopher Sickler | Junior Staffwriter
Killing Them Softly offers social commentary
Crime ?lm starring Brad Pitt seems better suited to literary format with heavy symbolism 

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 12.03.12
Somethings coming  something big.
That thought nags at the back of the audience members 
minds from the moment they sit down and gaze at 
the vastly empty set for Angels in America Part One: 
Millennium Approaches, and it slowly edges its way to 
the forefront until the ?nal scene, when the world comes 
crashing down.
In 1980, immunologist Andrew Saxon and his team 
at University of California, Los Angeles published a 
report on what would later be recognized as the AIDS 
epidemic. The report wasnt taken up by the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) until 1981, and 
by then the virus now known as HIV had spread rapidly, 
especially in the gay male community.
The Pulitzer Prize-winning, two-part play Angels in 
America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes premiered 
over the period of 1991 through 1993. It chronicles the 
lives of people living in New York City in 1985, when the 
AIDS epidemic was belatedly coming into the public 
eye. This was still two years before the government 
would even acknowledge the epidemic  and by that 
time, more than 25,000 people were dead.
And yet, Angels in America isnt about AIDS  its 
about what it means to be human. Existentialism, 
justice, love, faith, hope, money, bureaucracy are all laid 
bare, debated, realized, and misconstrued by the plays 
characters.
The story narrows in on two relationships in turmoil. One 
is between Prior Walter (senior musical theatre major 
Trevor McQueen-Eaton) and Louis Ironson (senior acting 
major Jesse Carrey-Beaver), who panics and feels he 
must leave his lover after ?nding out Prior has contracted 
AIDS. The other couple, Joe and Harper Pitt (played 
by senior acting major Adam Hagenbuch and senior 
musical theatre major Emily Koch, respectively) struggle 
with their secrets, a challenge exacerbated by the fact 
that Joe wants to move to Washington, D.C. for a job.
The shows playwright Tony Kushner preferred a 
transparent staging, with minimalist sets and quick 
scene changes, and for the most part, director Jed Allen 
Harris  associate teaching professor in the School of 
Drama  stayed entirely faithful to this concept. The 
vast stage was treated as a blank canvas, in which 
various settings could glide during scene changes. There 
were no blackouts in this production; instead, the stage 
lights all turned red, a nod to the color of AIDS relief.
Staging and even plot aside, Millennium Approaches 
shows its true colors through the relationships between 
the characters, through their intricate webs of thought 
processes and morals. Therefore, not only must all the 
actors be tremendously skilled, but they must also serve 
as foils to each other. Luckily, this production boasted 
some of the most solid acting the School of Drama has 
exhibited in the past two years.
McQueen-Eaton was an obvious standout. Prior 
struggles with the disease for the plays entirety, and 
often his pain is dif?cult to watch. But McQueen-Eaton 
had an astounding ability to retain Priors stoicism 
even when he was screaming and convulsing, and the 
audience didnt dare look away.
The acting talent didnt stop there. One could see 
Carrey-Beaver thinking as he portrayed the paranoid 
Louis, staying true to his character in that respect, 
and his performance was a methodical one. Roy Cohn 
(senior acting major Brian Morabito) is a raucous, 
scheming thunderstorm of a man, based on the real-life 
McCarthyist lawyer of the same name. Morabito at ?rst 
brought a lazy, laid-back quality to the character, but this 
persona was peeled away like old wallpaper throughout 
the play, culminating in his collapse in Act Three. Joes 
mother Hannah Pitt, played by senior musical theatre 
major Casey Anderson, also has a formidable disposition, 
but shes onstage for too short a time to fully develop an 
individuality.
It is Koch who truly stole the show as Harper Pitt, the 
Valium-addicted, agoraphobic, Mormon housewife. 
She learns most of what she knows from radio and 
television programming and spends much of the play in 
a hallucinatory state. Her emotions seem more realistic 
than anyones in the play  even more than Priors  
and she maintains a perfect combination of comedic wit 
and great anguish.
The other two most memorable performances, however, 
were done by the same person: Senior musical theatre 
major Rodney Earl Jackson, Jr. played both Priors best 
friend Belize and Harpers imaginary travel agent, Mr. 
Lies. Whats astounding is that Jackson brought such 
depth to both characters, even when he had to make 
costume changes in under a minute.
Its dif?cult to think of any criticism for these 
phenomenal actors, but there could be some 
improvements. Senior musical theatre major Imari 
Hardon expertly juggled her many roles  she serves 
as a homeless person, a sassy nurse, and an angel  
but as a result, she didnt sink into any one of them. 
Hagenbuch was almost as convincing as Joe Pitt, a 
deeply closeted Mormon man with staunch morals. But 
when it ?nally comes time for him to be emotional, he 
seemed too reserved and controlled. A fun side note, 
though: He played Patricks pot-dealing friend Bob in 
The Perks of Being a Wall?ower.
The School of Drama is only performing Part One: 
Millenium Approaches. To make up for the incomplete 
storyline, the cast performs a comedic 15-minute version 
of the ?ve-act Angels in America Part Two: Perestroika in 
the Purnell lobby after the show. Also in the lobby was a 
table with ?iers and information about LGBT and AIDSrelated organizations and events in the Pittsburgh area.
Millennium Approaches continues through Saturday. 
You dont want to miss this top-quality production of one 
of the most important plays in recent history.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Angels in America offers heavenly experience
School of Drama production explores AIDS epidemic, showcases student performances
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
The ongoing School of Drama production of Angels in 
America will run at the Purnell Center for 
the Arts through Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 12.03.127
The Weeknd haunts listeners with Trilogy
Recording artist Abel Tesfaye remixes old material for improved, despondent sound
Existing fans of Canadian R&B artist The Weeknd might 
not be terribly excited about his November release, 
Trilogy. The three-disc compilation, his ?rst release 
on a major record label, mostly consists of remastered 
versions of his three previously released mixtapes  
House of Balloons from March 2011, Thursday from 
August 2011, and Echoes of Silence from December 2011 
 with only three new songs. But for those who havent 
yet heard his music, Trilogy is a beautiful crash course 
in The Weeknds world of sex, drugs, and echoing, 
haunting soundscapes.
The Weeknd is 22-year-old Abel Tesfaye, a recording 
artist and record producer who ?rst started gaining 
attention when he uploaded several songs to YouTube 
in early 2011. The Weeknds debut mixtape, House of 
Balloons, was released online for free and immediately 
garnered critical acclaim for its inventive, haunting 
blend of electronic, R&B, and soul genres. According to 
Metacritic.com, it was the third-best-reviewed album of 
2011.
Like many hip-hop and R&B artists, The Weeknds lyrics 
focus almost exclusively on sex, drugs, and partying: 
From the morning to the evening / Complaints from 
the tenants / Got the walls kickin like they six-months 
pregnant / Drinking Aliz with our cereal for breakfast 
/ Girls calling cabs at dawn quarter to seven, Tesfaye 
croons in his song The Morning.
Unlike most artists of those genres, though, his falsetto 
is accompanied by brilliantly produced soundscapes that 
are often as melancholy as they are sexy. The Weeknds 
songs include everything from downtempo basses, hiphop beats, and electric guitars to synthesizers, violins, 
and piano chords, all of which are tightly produced to 
become echoing and distant.
Heartache and emptiness are also common themes for 
The Weeknd: Ill give you what you called for / Just let 
me get in my zone / Ill be making love to her through 
you / So let me keep my eyes closed / And I wont see a 
damn thing / I cant feel a damn thing / But Imma touch 
you right, Tesfaye sings in The Zone. The Weeknds 
singer may love drinking, getting high, and hooking up, 
but his haunting music suggests that these things dont 
always bring him happiness.
Clocking in at about two-and-a-half hours long, 
Trilogy immerses the listener in The Weeknds sexy, 
lonely world. Its worth the purchase, even for those 
who have already downloaded his mixtapes: Tesfaye 
has remastered his old songs, and even though the 
differences may be subtle, Trilogy is more focused, 
better emphasizing The Weeknds unique, moody sound.
Lonely Star was already a compelling, tense plea: 
Baby, I could be your best friend / Baby I could f*** you 
right / Baby you could have it all. But in Trilogy, Tesfaye 
has eliminated some of the grit and heaviness, making 
the song ?t more with The Weeknds despondent tone. 
And although his three new tracks in Trilogy  Twenty 
Eight, Valerie, and Till Dawn (Here Comes The Sun) 
 are far from The Weeknds strongest work, theyre still 
worth a listen. Even those who arent normally fans of 
R&B will be drawn into The Weeknds haunting music.
Anna Walsh | Personnel Manager
Courtesy of Shubvirk via Wikimedia Commons
Recording artist and record producer Abel Tesfaye, 
better known as The Weeknd, released his most 
recent album, Trilogy, in November.

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 12.03.1298feature
pillbox 12.03.12
As individuals with unique experiences, humans have 
inherently subjective interpretations of the world. The 
City & the City: Artwork by London Writers, an ongoing 
exhibition at Wood Street Galleries, is a study of this 
concept  that our emotions and backgrounds shape 
how we perceive a place.
For experimental artists and authors Sukhdev Sandhu, 
Rod Dickinson, Tom McCarthy, and Rachel Lichtenstein, 
among others, London is a shared hometown through 
which they project their respective examinations of a 
modern city and varying ways to look at a single place 
through language and art.
The exhibit, which opened Sep. 31, is curated by 
Pittsburgh conceptual artist and writer Justin Hopper. 
Although the installation is aesthetically minimal, the 
entirety of the exhibit is ample in theoretical content. 
The artists challenge viewers to consider a world beyond 
the con?nes of their immediate environments, assessing 
the present in light of historical trends and alternate 
realities.
The ?rst room of the gallery is dark and bare, save for a 
wooden table and a computer mouse. Once the mouse is 
engaged, projected images materialize against the walls 
and dissonant music spills out of speakers in the ceiling. 
The piece  titled Night Haunts: A Journey Through 
the London Night and created by London-based author 
Sandhu  recounts the gradual waning of the furtive 
nighttime atmosphere that characterized London 
throughout the Victorian era.
In the projected text, the author laments the citys 
fabricated, disingenuous present. Certainly, Londons 
modern-day nighttime atmosphere no longer resembles 
the mysterious luster of its past. The text describes it as 
a clutch of surly-looking bouncer-fronted clubs pumping 
out monotonous bpm, and from which puked-breathed 
likely lads emerge at 2 a.m. to pick ?ghts with girls that 
wont go home with them.
Sandhus London has been economized, rebranded, and 
deauthenticated. Even the stripped physical structure 
of the installation seems to mirror the citys emptiness 
beneath its ostensible personality. The room re?ects the 
relationship between place and memory, depicting the 
authors disillusionment with a city that has betrayed its 
own history.
Londons past is also surveyed in a piece titled 
Greenwich Degree Zero by Dickinson and McCarthy. 
The work is an alternative history based on French 
anarchist Martial Bourdins very real attempt to blow up 
The Royal Observatory, Greenwich in 1894. The artists 
demand that viewers consider the alternative to reality: 
What if Bourdin had succeeded in his terrorist attempt?
The thorough multimedia piece displays newspapers, 
photographs, and ?lm that have been doctored to portray 
the destruction of The Royal Observatory, Greenwich. 
The artists even created ?ctional anarchist magazines 
to document Bourdins personal history and political 
activism preceding his attack on the observatory.
The counterfeit reports are comprehensive and 
creative, detailing Bourdins alleged desire to bomb 
the observatory as an expression of his frustration 
with the parasitical nature of an idle and vicious 
upper class. Dickinson and McCarthys interpretation, 
while mythical, is timeless and universal, speaking to 
individuals beyond the speci?c historical situation they 
examine in their piece.
Lichtensteins Sight Unseen is probably the most 
tangible avenue for historical analysis and the 
relationship between past and present. The piece is a 
site-speci?c installation that coincides with the launch 
of her new non?ction book, Diamond Street: The Hidden 
World of Hatton Garden.
Hatton Garden is Londons diamond and jewelry quarter, 
home to an extremely private community of brokers 
and manufacturers. Working behind closed doors are 
silversmiths, gold beaters, pearl and diamond merchants, 
and lapidaries. In her piece, Lichtenstein reimagines 
the skills, stories, and memories of these individuals by 
recreating their artifacts. Velvet and gold objects form a 
multilayered homage to the craftspeople who operate in 
the Hatton Garden area.
The collection is not striking upon ?rst inspection. 
However, a more profound understanding of its origins 
lend it considerable power as an ensemble. Unlike 
the gallerys other pieces, Lichtensteins does not 
Pittsburgh exhibit explores human relationship with place through art and writing
The City & the City: Artwork by London Writers features Pittsburgh as an unlikely setting for a collection of London-themed pieces at the Wood Street Galleries
Rod Dickinson and Tom McCarthys Greenwich 
Degree Zero presents falsified artifacts from a nearsuccessful terrorist attack on The Royal Observatory, 
Greenwich in 1894. 
                 Chloe Lula | Junior Photographer
by Chloe Lula | Junior Staffwriter[]
present the viewer with a metaphysical concept. Her 
representation of London is concrete; for her, it is a city 
built upon the endeavors of the industrialists that lived 
and worked in relative obscurity.
The respective historical studies of Sandhu, Dickinson, 
and Lichtenstein contextualize our modern world. Their 
perceptions of Londons present-day identity, along 
with the diverse relationships they have each cultivated 
with the city, are rooted in their own interpretations of 
historical perspective. Indeed, it is evident that each 
artist relates differently to London in the same way that 
many people relate dissimilarly to cities across the U.S.
It is the exhibits ability to transcend geography and 
audience that makes it so memorable. Every person 
establishes some relationship with the geographical 
places they inhabit. This unifying feature of The City & 
the City offers an experience that many people can relate 
to and ultimately acknowledge in their own lives.
In particular, Hopper hopes to allow viewers to examine 
these geographical places through a new artistic lens. 
Id be pleased if people came out of the show with, 
perhaps, a slightly altered idea of how art and literature 
can combine to envision new non?ctions  how can we 
look at our surroundings in a different way because of 
the ideas that these artists have presented. Thats how 
all contemporary art shows function: Whats beautiful in 
the world that I hadnt previously recognized as beauty?
However, Hopper hopes that the exhibit will reinforce an 
identity in the city of Pittsburgh speci?cally. Pittsburgh 
has been seeking to newly understand its own identity, 
and artists and writers are a signi?cantly important 
part of that process, Hopper said via email. London 
is the most written-about, artistically-represented city 
in the western world, and is currently the home of a 
?ercely independent and yet dominant scene of artists 
and writers looking to understand notions of place and 
memory and the intersections thereof.
Pittsburgh, though not usually compared to London, 
is certainly similar in the sense that it receives varied 
and divergent reviews regarding its appeal as a city. It 
seems apt that the artists chose Pittsburgh as a location 
for a portrait of a place that shares so many of our citys 
conceptual qualities.
Psychogeographers, concrete poets, documentary?ction videographers, liminal cartographers, avanthistorians  London is littered with people creating 
new methods and concepts for looking at place and 
at the city in different ways, Hopper said via email. 
Pittsburghers are doing the same thing. Why not 
position the two together?
Sandhu was impressed that Pittsburgh was host to the 
exhibition, noting in an interview with the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette, People have been hearing about this 
show, and they say, Its in Pittsburgh? as though 
they expect it to be in California or New York or even 
Chicago. They say, Let me know how it goes because 
wed like to do it here. 
Hopper has similar enthusiasm about Pittsburgh as a 
site for fostering cultural introspection and awareness: 
As to why a show on London in Pittsburgh: Why not? 
If this show were in New York, Chicago, L.A., no one 
would bat an eye. Why shouldnt Pittsburgh host an 
exhibition of important contemporary artists working in 
a new cross-disciplinary way, regardless of where they 
come from or what their subject is? The question should 
be, Why isnt there a show of work about Pittsburgh in 
London? 
Chloe Lula | Junior Photographer
Rod Dickinson and Tom McCarthys piece 
showcases modified newspapers giving a fictional 
account of the attack.
Chloe Lula | Junior Photographer
As part of Greenwich Degree Zero, a falsified film portraying smoke rising from The Royal Observatory, 
Greenwich adds to the artists imagining of the destruction of the Observatory.

---------------------------------------------------

10film
pillbox 12.03.12
It was almost a year ago when The Twilight Saga: 
Breaking Dawn: Part 1 made its appearance in 
theaters, much to the delight of rabid fans. Tension 
was high at the end of part one when Bella, after 
giving birth to her half-human, half-vampire child, 
was ?nally turned into a member of the undead by 
her glittery and brooding husband.
This November, fans waited with bated breath for 
the ?fth and ?nal installment of the series. Breaking 
Dawn: Part 2 opened in theaters Nov. 16 and made 
a killing of $71.2 million in the box of?ce on its 
opening day, according to boxof?cemojo.com.
In this installment, the Volturi  the powerhungry arm of vampire law  come after Bella 
and her daughter, Renesmee, under the guise of 
protecting the secrecy of their species. Thinking 
that Renesmee is dangerous, the Volturi plan to kill 
her and use Alice, another vampire, and her longsought-after powers for their own devious means.
If anything can be said for this installment of the 
Twilight series, its that it certainly catered to its 
fans. As in the book, when Bella becomes a vampire, 
she is much less whiny, and she ?nally seems to 
come into her own. In fact, she acknowledges this 
when she remarks in one scene that she was born 
to be a vampire.
Edward is the same as ever: brooding, moody, and 
extremely pale. Jacob is also unchanged: still a wolf, 
and still overprotective. In fact, every character 
except Bella remains largely stationary. It makes 
sense that this installment would focus on Bellas 
transformation, but expecting Kristen Stewart to 
carry the entire movie is ludicrous; the actress is just 
not up to the task.
Stewart seems unable to make her character more 
interesting, despite the added ability to run fast, 
climb things at lightning speed, glitter in the sun, 
and drink human blood. She needs to learn that long 
stares and twitching brows are not the only way to 
emote.
There is a lot of seemingly unnecessary dialogue 
in the movie as well. Many scenes consisted of 
the main characters standing around the Cullens 
living room, deciding what to do about this dilemma 
or that. For the purposes of the movie, this much 
exposition wasnt needed. In fact, its only apparent 
purpose was to please viewers who were loyal 
readers of Stephanie Meyer and couldnt wait to 
hear each line from the books played out onscreen.
But despite Stewarts acting and the super?uous 
dialogue, Breaking Dawn: Part 2 is still one of the 
best Twilight movies, mostly because changes 
actually happen in this installment. Bella now has a 
baby, Volturi drama ensues, and vampires from all 
around the world ?ock to the Cullens home.
Unlike Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse, and Breaking 
Dawn: Part 1, all of which seem to deal largely with 
Bella pining after Edward and whining over the 
fact that shes human, Breaking Dawn: Part 2 has 
an actual story line and doesnt center around one 
teens mood swings.
Although the movie  and the entire series  was 
not my cup of tea, it was no doubt satisfying to 
long-time fans of the book and movie series. Overall, 
Breaking Dawn: Part 2 is sure to go down in the 
annals of history as a good end to a mediocre series.
Christa Hester | Publisher
Twilight series ends well
Breaking Dawn: Part 2 is highlight of mediocre saga 
Kristen Stewart, who stars as Bella Swan in the 
Twilight saga, is forced to carry the movie in the 
last installment of the series. 
Courtesy of Gage Skidmore via Wikimedia Commons
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Dec. 12, 1912
Merry Christmas wishes abound 
for the classes of 1912 and 1913, 
Carnegie Tech staff, and the women on 
campus. Someday, the writer hopes, 
these women might be recognized for 
their hard work. Until then, The Tartan 
sends the ladies best wishes in the 
hunt for a husband during the holidays.
50years ago
Dec. 19. 1962
In response to campus apathy toward 
outward appearances, the Panhellenic 
Council is sponsoring a contest for all 
women on campus that will be judged 
on neatness and proper hair and 
makeup for different situations. The 
winner will be sent to the next round of 
a competition sponsored by Glamour  
magazine.
25years ago
Nov. 24, 1987
One hundred fifty Carnegie Mellon 
students are arrested when two large 
fraternity parties are raided over the 
weekend. Many of the brothers from 
each house find the police to be 
unnecessarily brutal, and one tells The 
Tartan, The police have been watching 
too much TV.
10years ago
Nov. 25, 2002
Students share the multitude of 
ways they deal with sexiling. Some 
students stick to the sock-on-the-door 
technique, but other students are more 
innovative. One pair of boys uses a 
secret code on the whiteboard outside 
their room. One girl admits to ignoring 
sexiling altogether, and just waits until 
her boyfriends roommate falls asleep.
5years ago
Dec. 3, 2007
A water main break cuts through 
campus on Friday afternoon. Students 
meandering along the Cut around 1 
p.m. have the chance to take pictures 
and videotape the water that runs from 
campus to Forbes Avenue. Surprisingly 
enough, all this water and chaos is 
caused by an eight-inch break in the 
water main.
1year ago
Nov. 21, 2011
Carnegie Mellon is heading to China. 
A university press release announces 
that Sun Yat-sen University will begin 
offering masters and doctorate 
degrees in electrical and computer 
engineering in 2013 in partnership with 
the Carnegie Mellon ECE department. 

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 12.03.1211
Solutions from Nov. 19, 2012
CrosswordVery Hard DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/
sudokugen/
Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com/kakuro
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 12.03.12
Hark, a Vagrant by Kate Beaton
kathrynmoira@gmail.comOnline at www.harkavagrant.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 12.03.1213
Stick Cats #12 by Nick Marino
nickmarino@gmail.com
Love Tree by Reza Farazmand
Piled Higher and Deeper by Jorge Cham 
jorge@phdcomics.com
Online at www.poorlydrawnlines.comOnline at www.nickmarino.com
Online at www.phdcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes 
pillbox 12.03.12
1. Dramatic troupe
2. ___ girl!
3. Jacobs first wife
4. Drink
5. Aided
6. Thickness
7. Title of a knight
8. Elicit
9. Photographic tone
10. Water pitcher
11. When said three times, a 1970 war movie
12. Horn sound
13. Tropical plant
21. Jazz org.
23. Autocratic Russian rulers
25. ___-Cat
26. French beans?
27. Actor Buchholz
28. Gauchos rope
29. TV Tarzan Ron
31. Get it?
32. Line of cliffs
33. ___ lunch
34. Crawl
39. Neth. neighbor
40. Lauder of cosmetics
41. Corp. honcho
42. Signal that danger is over
44. New Haven collegian
48. Philosopher ___-tzu
49. Foolish persons
51. Sample
52. Stomach woe
54. Polite address
55. Sock ___ me!
56. Wineglass part
57. Stains
59. Mower brand
60. Slaughter of baseball
61. Pro ___
64. Part of ETA
65. Paid player
1. Colombian city
5. Church areas
10. Bluesy James
14. Up and ___!
15. Slip
16. Fleece
17. Pierce with a knife
18. Thick sweet liquid
19. Switch ending
20. Falafel sauce
22. Sildenafil ___: Viagra
24. Air rifle ammo
25. Mariners can sail on seven of 
these
26. Endanger
30. Org.
35. Fair-hiring abbr.
36. Hold On Tight band
37. Happen again
38. Calamity
41. Become cheeselike
43. Adlais running mate
44. Its a moray
45. Hwy.
46. Kick off
47. Candy
50. Sewing case
53. Structural engineers software
54. Distribute the wrong cards
58. Linger aimlessly
62. ABA member
63. Lands end?
66. Mrs. Chaplin
67. To ___ (perfectly)
68. ___ firma
69. Horses gait
70. May honorees
71. Diamond flaw?
72. Cubs slugger Sammy
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Dont do it. Trust me, that brilliant plan is going to blow up 
in your face.
taurus
april 20may 20
Cry, go for a walk, or just listen to some music. Whatever 
you do, make sure you find some safe way to relieve the 
stress from finals. You will get through this.
gemini
may 21june 21
Because it is cold outside and the sky is gray, treat yourself 
to something that you want. Dont think about needs or 
practicality, just treat yourself.
cancer
june 22july 22
Its that time of year when its important to sit back and 
take note of the good things in your life. The next two 
weeks may not be fun, but dont let them impede on your 
happiness.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Over the semester you havent be living a lie, per se, but 
you havent been completely truthful. Before the year runs 
out, make an effort to stop hiding who you are.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Smile! Its good for you. Just make sure you are aware of 
your surroundings when you smile. No one wants to look 
up from their laptop and catch one of your creeper smiles.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Because it is cold outside and the sky is gray, buckle 
down and get back to work. Why be outside in such sad 
conditions? Work now, play later when the sun comes back 
out.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
It might be hard to hear this, but it must be said: Furbies 
are back.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Happened yesterday, something weird did. The problems 
you were having with your project, tried to explain you did. 
However, your professor looked at you as if you were Yoda. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Peace and blessings be upon you. In your times of great 
strife, keep sight of your goals and dont back down.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Out in the real world, people say the real world is harder 
than Carnegie Mellon. God help us all.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
People are more difficult to work with than machines. 
And when you break a person, he cant be fixed.  Rick 
Riordan, The Battle of the Labyrinth
Nicole Hamilton | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 12.03.1215
MONDAY12.3.12
Candice Millard. Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. 
7:30 p.m.
Candice Millard, author of Destiny of the Republic: A Tale 
of Madness, Medicine, and the Murder of a President, 
will speak as part of the Monday Night Lecture series at 
Carnegie Music Hall.
TUESDAY12.4.12
Give Me a Break. The Gladys Schmitt Creative Writing 
Center. 8 p.m.
The ?nal student reading of the year will take place in 
Baker Hall 260. The reading will feature the work of 
Adria Steuer (senior English major), Austin Moyer (senior 
creative writing major), Anna Nelson (junior ?ne art 
and creative writing double major), Sara Keats (senior 
Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student), and Matt Finlay 
(junior creative writing major). After the reading there will 
be an open mic, and the event includes free pizza and a 
raf?e.
WEDNESDAY12.5.12
Arlo Aldo. Skibo Cafe. 7:30 p.m.
AB Skibo presents a concert by Pittsburgh-based 
alternative-folk band Arlo Aldo. The event is free and open 
to the public.
THURSDAY12.6.12
Convocation: Chamber Music. Kresge Theatre. 
1:30 p.m.
A variety of chamber music ensembles will perform in the 
College of Fine Arts.
The Smashing Pumpkins. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
Nineties alternative rock band The Smashing Pumpkins 
will perform at Stage AE. More information and tickets are 
available at stageae.com.
FRIDAY12.7.12
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic and Choirs 
present a Holiday Concert. Rangos Ballroom. Noon.
Robert Page and Michael Van Camp will conduct a 
performance of holiday music, including excerpts from 
Handels Messiah, by the Philharmonic Concert Choir and 
the Repertory Chorus. The concert will also be performed 
at 8 p.m. the same night in the College of Fine Arts Great 
Hall. The event is free and open to the public.
Winterfest 2012: A Last Day of Classes 
Extravaganza. Wiegand Gymnasium. 2:30 p.m.
AB Special Events presents its annual end-of-classes 
celebration, Winterfest 2012. Stop by Wiegand 
Gymnasium after your last class for free food, raf?es, and 
massive in?atable structures (including a wrecking ball, 
gladiator jousting, and a Batman-themed bounce house). 
The PSO presents Haydn and Saint-Saens Organ 
Symphony. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will perform Franz 
Joseph Haydns Symphony No. 68 and Saint-Saens 
Symphony No. 3. Violinist Anne Akiko Meyers will 
premiere Violin Concerto by PSO 2012-13 Composer of 
the Year Mason Bates. The concert will also be peformed 
on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. More information and tickets are 
available at pittsburghsymphony.org.
SATURDAY12.8.12
Olivia Newton-John with the PSO. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
Four-time Grammy winner Olivia Newton-John will 
perform a special, one-night-only concert with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. More information and 
tickets are available at pittsburghsymphony.org.
ONGOING
Portraits of a Garden, Brooklyn Botanic Garden 
Florilegium. Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through Dec. 16.
The exhibit showcases work from 48 American botanical 
artists who are creating an archive of watercolors and 
drawings of the plants at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. 
The selected pieces will be displayed with historical 
printed volumes from the Hunt Institutes collection. The 
gallerys operating hours are available at 
huntbot.andrew.cmu.edu.
White Cube, Green Maze. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Jan. 13.
The exhibit includes models and drawings by architects 
and landscape architects who have worked on 
collaborative projects, focusing on six sites from around 
the world.
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24.
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 12.03.12
Jonathan Carreon | Photo Editor
On Saturday, the School of Music, Student Senate, Student Affairs, the 
Of?ce of Orientation, Alumni Relations, Student Dormitory Council, 
and CulinArt collaborated to present the Madrigal Dinner. The event 
was a traditional Christmas meal accompanied by the School of Music 
Chamber Singers, a magician, a juggler, a mime, a stilt-walker, and a 
harpsichord player. The event took place at 6:30 p.m. in Rangos Hall. 
madrigal dinner.
