LAST CHANCE FOR C W TAGS 
SALE STOPS WEDNESDAY, 4-30
THE DEVIL'S DEN 
C. W. SHOW FRI.  & SAT.
VOL. XXI NO. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE.OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH/PA.TUESDAY,-MAY 10. 1927
MIGRATORY TO 
OPEN CARNEGIE 
CAMPUS WEEK
Exceptional Music Makers 
Booked by Fraternities and 
Dormitories For the Dance
CURTO. BE A WARDED
Alpha Eho Chi Offers Prize To 
Fraternities Having Best 
Decorations.
\Mlgratory Dance,
houses, will open the, festivities of Carnegie's Eighth' Compir Week, Wednesday evening,- .May 11;
This year, as-thy bave done previously the Alpha Phi Chi is of
fering a cup to be presented to the fraternity whose house is..Judged the bast decorated. Last year the prize was won by the Sigma Phi Epslloo. Every fraternity isdoltig their utmost to outdo. tbe others. In 
originality, apdtho result.' will, no doubt,-exceed even :last year's In splendor and novelty. Several houses hv allowed it to-be rumoredthattheir efforts will be along , iinpdern lines. There are others i.who afe' tiemptihg. to representia.phaBe of.-the. medieval,period, not to centlcm the number who do not desire ' that their plans be anticipated.  1 
- Tho itemi which will have a -very ' grt deal to do with the success of the evening Id the choice of orcheetras mede, by the respective,frater' nitiee, and the following enumqm. tlon will be evidence Enough that thebeBt of Pittsburghs syncopaV tion producers will be found some, iwhere ' on the Campus "Wednesday evening. ;At; the Acacias will'be - - heard Magglos orchestra, the Alpha Sigma. Phis have, engaged the ' Revelers,' HowdyDauras. AlieghehhinV will hold forth at the Alpha /Tau Omega house, at the Beta.SIg* 'rna Rho9 will be found AT Harriiont:rcheira, and the Betd Theta . -Pi Js;6rlngingthe Red and Black ; : Collegians ' '' into our mtdst/  The.. -Punii Derbies, will play.at.tbevPhl , Sigma. -, Kappa , house, Marty 
Schrmihfl orcheetraatthe, Della7 ^KI;-'RobIri&n'9a'6rctieslr:?ai'rtir' ; Delta Phi Delta,: arid" Brown? or-' ahestra at the DeltaTau Delta. Rowland and McMllllon will furnish th^musle tor the.Dela'Upsi. Jen, HoWn's Blue: Ridge Orchestra: will appear at. the Kappa sigma .. ihouse. and the Dragone at the Kappa Sigma Rho's: The Phi Kappas  have the Georgians, Sigma Alpha Epsilon has the Virginia Ramblers, Sigma Nu has Paul Riders Collegians,:. . Theta Xi the Collegiate 
' the Sima Phi Epsilon  and his band.J Phil Fig
Girls Program For 
-C. W. Now Complete
. Contestants Are Chosen For 
Roller Skate' Races , to 
be Held Friday 13
pus Week is complete nad the final arrangements for the Girls' Sw.eep^'
 choi by ttitioh and the following girls were selected: \Forbes 'Hall/ Edna Myers and-- Mildred ; Young; Mellon Hail, Eleanor,;Syle'r'and Kathryn ;Anderson; Forbes Street Dorms, Sally. -Jolly and Gladys Connors; WoodJawn Dorms, Anne Jviclfee and: Claire Ward. The course will bo ^rom tlie Central Building to Margaret Morrison and back again. The race will be run in relays, six contestants starting from the Central Building and racing to the car 
Thereelr.bali the i (he htack to the Central Building.; Dr .Marks will"be tlie official startei .(Continued on Page Two)'
0IA2ONIUM, FORMERLY A. I. C. E., HELD MEET
ING LAST WED. . ,
The first meeting of the Dia,- ..opium Club, was, held In 21& Sci;,ence on Wednesday evening. ' The -Dlazonlum ' Cluble the - successor 
 to th American .Institute of fchem-: fcal Engineers," tbe.club having, re. j.ceotly decided to drop its charter ) . _in:'tbat organ[jation. ' 'V-.The speaker for the'evenlng,- Mi - Sawdders. of the Goodyear. Rubber . ^ .Company gave an interestingand'c : very educational lecture on-Mexico. and its historic, points of interest.V;': ..- r.Thg. lecture waa illustrated - with 
^;' ein;aiceUnt seleotlon ot slides,and: r-< movlng\nicture8.y .The ,-tub. then held a short, busi^; : B.esa meetipg during which officers ^'j.|v-.;wer nominated for' next y'ei v;--- :th'en:.ended the evening bys 
v^:..6feal8.-apd! smokes.1'. v.'.7-.- AUhough new;, in name; the Dia*..* zBlum is. one ofi.the oldest clubs '  'pn, tho ' CampiiB. First known'as .vvttbe Crucible Club, it jaterj-'becai . .-.v'tbe Carnegie Chemists' ;Qlub:: a 'stbea became a chapterqf the'iAin lean:'. Institute' ;!of  Chemical.I
rj->i-leeted!;a distinctlv'e.^emblem^whlch' ^ V appears LA thair charms;/. Itfis
plans of the Carnogie CamfUs the price of 10 cents. These plans are. being printed of white "Buckeye-' Cover Paper,,a tough, durable and heavy paper of the hlghi grade. -Due to the .quality of workmanship aiid materials these plans will be suitable for.coloring and framing. They will be on sale in 
the office of Buddy Overend, where visitors will register; at the Country Fair booth, at the Store Room, and other booths on the Ci during the celebration of Cs Week. The proceeds of th< 
will be equally divided between the Educational Publicity Departmei and the   Carnegie Endowtpei Fund. '
CORONATION TO BE 
HELD THURS. NIGHT 
ON STEPS OF GYM
Emily Fulton to be Crowned 
Queen of Campus Week 
At Twelve, Oclock
As everyone knows, the Coronaioa ceremony is to take place Thursday night on. tha main steps I the gym, at tbe bewitching hour, f midnight. .A. dlmaz to the anmal Cor'on^tdon Dance, the1 P&r geant -will ' center around' the nln'g of Emily Fulton as Carls sixth Campus Queen, 
e Aztoc period, chosen for the pageant, promisee a wealth of color and pictureesque beauty in theme, coBtume, and: background, 
tee Mitchell has written'the playind haii It Quite a dramatic:hsomething, different .- startling. He ..will also - direct itp tducUon with theassistance of Don Wilson. Rumor has It that the gowns of 'the Queen and her attendants are. rather, elaborate id quit Indian in design. Charlotte. Wardale and .her .committee iv almoBt' completed the actual aklng of these coslumea,'which ere designed by Verner Purnell. 
Altogether, the Coronation this jar should be one of tbe loveliest Carnegie has. ever had, and" well rorth'witnessing. The custom of :lectlng-a Queen and'crowalng her n .this picturesque fashion has beiome/a 'flrmlv established tradtlopiat' Carnegie and the prettiest :ertnbny 'we have: It Is' hopedthat more people will b able to it this year, than In other years, when the location in the heater behind Arts School iblr limited the ...view. 
The Coronation Dance,, thoughihort in cwith, tCamotherWeek,
The popular Collegiate-Imps
will v-display their musical In the Union. Promptly at' 11:30, the dancers will,adjourn to
F.D. WOODS TO 
HEAD THE TRIPUBLICATIONS
Mark Seibert Again Busi
ness Manager; Jean Roy 
Managing Editor
Frederick D. Wcodfc TvJll be edlto of the . Trl-Publlcatlons  elatt f0. noxt year, as a% result of the elections hold by the present st__. _ few weeKp *eo, and approved by the Student Council at their meeting lust Tuesday. The other members or tbe start are Mark Seibert, "ho is retaining his present position as fiusiaess Manager, and Miss Jean Roy, who will become
minihip comes as a! cuiverel years of faithfui service on the staffs of the several campus publications. He is athletic editor of. tho Tartan and advertising manager of the Puppet. He is chairman of the Sweepstakes for .Campus Week. He Is a Junior swimming manager. Since his election to the editorship, he .wae elected president of the senior class of Industries) foi next year. He Is now a junior ii Works Management, and a mem ber of Phi Kappa Fraternity.Mark Seibert, a Junior ln<3>. and D., is continuing as the business manager. He is assistant treasurer of the Student Council, president-elect of the Art; School Senate, and a cheerleader. He le a Delta Skull, and a member ' ol Sigma Pht Epsilon. .Mise Jean Roy, a Junior lb Margaret Morrison, served on the etff last year as Women's Editor. She Is a Junior Editor of the Tnr. tan, and assistant treasurer-of .the Student Council. Last . fall sho was elected -honorary captain of '(Continued on Page Two)"
Fraternity Men Await Sweepstakes
Races Expected to Again 
Furnish Biggest Thrill 
of Campus -WeekPROFESSOR FOLLOWS 
EDITS EXHIBITON BOOK
Illustrated^ Booklet Contains 
Stories o Industries.
. ^Professor Follows of. the Com; mercil Engineering Department has recently edited a small book called the Exhibition Book which was Written especially for Camegie Exhibition.. Night so that the publicwould better aprcclate tbe displays ot these Thirty Industries. The book contains, among other things 30 shortIllustrated stories prepared .by 30-Industries of tbe Pittsburgh district , /
Several months ago Mr. Follows conferred withrepresentatives of 4 of the' 30 national Industries which cooperate with the department ot Commercial Engineering and ihey decided; to p.ublish a small book to be called-tlie Exhi
bition Book. ^ 
Th 90 Industries;! because of their national, commercial, and economic,importance .and the'varlely of their products; may be' said epresent, educationally, the ma*t the-United States. > of the book ' is to 'prospective engineers
jor lndui
the . educational plan In .Productloi and. Distribution as carried oh .by these representative : lndustriea, The way's in wblch these industries co-operate in ' direct/ educational and classroom work,'are explained in tbe book-Itself, which .alsQi .con;' tains ,a. fine line-etching  plan, of Caraegl'e.Canil
r .printed, for . the ComDepartment'' and.- another . .thei Industries,; Pitta.,
trles^ represented by atortea in book.v .Mr;':Follows apd, the*other' men nelbie for (the,'publishing; of
rlgbt .ikiad "to :our Coilege; of Engineering.1 ,>-TheseImni also} Sellve 'that  11 ;WilLi lead these, men 'nt[(thein.du8trieB'.^or,cv after^elr^graditton from.th elegeof--Engineriiir'-.r'' -... ^ S*^The*tnok -'wliLbeVMd
i the Plumbers Convei
ig that dancing is done ' the feet, we have The Migrat Coronation, Mardl Gras and other feature, the Interfrater Sweop^L'akes. Some sage* one marked something about < having theJr day. (f'ibte sing day). In his calculations.
PittWeek and i
the contrary, it is generally coi ceded that, these' imitations < Letzelters bus. "Fanny ^d TLC money. Last year, after the 
Sweepstakes'' were wo? damn lucky Piwin the eye ir..- Their Art-Students i design a bus of unr
t till!
; no matter how blind.. The!: sers, . after deriving thnUnued h Pge Three)
Student' Council held a highly Important meeting last Tuesday night, May 3. Election of oRicerj for next year wac the' most .out standing business. . R. C.. Halnei was approvedasEditor-Jn-chief o the Puppet for'.the rest of this year and the. new' Trl-Publlcatloni staff for next year was likewise ap proved. Several more. .Campui budgets' were brought up for ap provai: atid-passed;'-', ..- A motion-, to;the effect that Stu* dent . Council' designate .a. eujt'able Splice' for -storine Campus Week eqiilpment of-all' kinds and it :tha,t' only persons, in authority haveactess to thls school proper 
iy,i was. suggested by ;Mr. U^d end carried by th .Council. , Considerable sums of money bave .ben lost -In previous years throgh the lack f sotue auch safe .storage pia seetais. ' At Dr. Bakers request, the ter/ .0fo; football . holidays' brouglit up. wlth th.. Idea of ob.talning the-Stiident Councils'oi>ln;lon on the question. The admt tritIon : fel3 : tiiat: the number these'celebrations should be. 1 ited^coosideirably. After some. cuWlon, ;GounclI voted to ree ment tb_at at!tha beginning of each sehl^yeavKpieahtaUyes of the StndentCouncil -.-confer-wlth^the
All Preparatiop R^d For Mst 
Peppy Carnegie Campus Wek
A day more and the eighth Cam-pus Weak will be upon us with a full realization of fun. The Migratory dance wiit open fostfvittes tomorrow night, at which time the Greeks and their fair ladtes will wander here and there. Fr6m then on until Saturday night the day! and nights will he full.
All plans have b6on made andsrythlm)ady.
At the Qualifications, to be held at 2:00 Thursday, Don Dalton will make the' call.. The address of welcome-will bo given by John Cvr. Th part of th preacher will be ployed by Cam .Young, freshmnn Drama student. All ot the mourners and patl"'bearors have been appointed, and It is expected that they will carry out their duties with seal'. ........
A few changes in the rules of the Sweepstakes race v have been made, the principle one being thi Industries bill will now be push< in two laps. Instead of one. was felt that this part of race wi too strenuous for a competition, of this kind.
The orchestras which have been slected for the Mardi Gras aud
Country Fair Plans 
Include New Acts
Girls Dorms, Fraternities 
Offer Keen Competition 
For Stunt Cups
9 contestants for the Girls Cup' of the Country Fair to be lield on the out Saturday from p. m. to 6:00 p. m., have an:ed the .titles of. their playa. The Woodlawn Dormf. Bani,theHi:give an iedy ; the Forbes present. Frisky
stunl Forbes Stree BangHall gJrls Fashions of Fort Mcillon Hall girls - 
playlet. The Mi
' Besides thesestunts there wjll e group stunts given by the  men tudents - In'- competition for the raternlty and mens dorm cups.
Imps.'. Both are well-known .for thplr excellent dance mu 
' strong comptition 1s l .the girlsevents.. .Lifi> Inr________ .the Girls Sweepstakes. Tbe event will be full of il(e. and spirit.
 In addition to the list of athletic events given la the program below, a-LaCrosse game will be held at 11:30 Friday;- ;Students are urged to watch the Bohedule or tag.saiee the-tags at the correct-time and pl^ce..Below is glvei ;rom of events:.
<9:00 t
i the
r' May 1
ised i
00Migratory She Thursday, May 12..-.Hl:0O a. m.Vaudeville Sho, j:C0 p. m.^Qualifications. .' 2:00 p. m.Tennis Match (Notre D<une).. '.8:00 p. m.Baseball (Freshman and Sophomores).;;.;5:0() to.11:45 p. .m.Coronati
'$. (Continui on Page Two),
STRING ENSEMBLE 
CONCERT MAY 15
Music Department Seniors 
To Present Graduating 
Recital
' .|The String Ensemble class or tl*e Fine Arts College will.hold He annual -Spring concert on Sunday, May IB, at 8:16 p. m. The concert Vill take place in the Little Theater of the Arts SchoolMalcheipartrof the inductAs iisle. Dei whichI feature of tb ill undoubtedly tdrost to the student body. Josephine. -McGrall, soprano. < will sing three numtfers, (a) Es frlsat eln Lold an melneni Herzen; (b) 'If I could have my deareBt wish fulfllled. and (c) A Little Flower,' which were composed by Sel. raar Janeon. a membor of the Music Faculty: ijThe program will be aa follows: P^rgoiesi: ConcerUno in F minor ^or string orchestra. *iT?^Tg'i^AHe^^luHtbv^^'- Anda'nteAllegro, con spirits Vivaldi. Concerto for three violins and piano.
Virginia Brookhrt, Edmund: Schuchert, David Fisher, violinists; Mary Long pianist. Voikinann. Serenade, No. 3, .f
To Present Awards 
At R.O.T. C. Review
The date for the annual Car Weeli Presidents review has sot for 1:30 p. m. Friday, Ma: A number of distinguished gi
ram a number of awai presented. The Baird . it of the V. Fv W. will-p et,.Major Mueller with saber. W. D. Campbell
19of 15chteredadditionLeo KaseWinchester target-rifle, the gift of Captain Lyons, awarded to the man placing first at Carnegie In the Engineer R. O. T. C. match. ,As a new feature of the Review, in the staff of the reviewing officer will be the honorary, cadet, officers who were elected by the R O. T. C. last fall. They are: Ruth Dawson, honorary cadet major; Betty MsFadden, Jean Roy, Mar Jorle Snodgrass, and Charlotte Wardale. honorary cadet captains.The Reviw, which is a fixture on the Campus Week program, will take place on the cut, where' the battalion composed of thtee engineering companies and the Signal Corps, will form In lines of (Continued on Page Four)
Grief
(a) Heart Wounds(b) StringSelmar Janson. -Three Songs for soprano; with piano and string mipanl:
(a) i Herzein Leid
(b) 1:wish fulfllled"(c) A Little Flower.Josephine McGrall, soprano, lassenet. Prelude, Le 'dernier sommeil' de la -Vierge . (Continued op Page Four.) -
Last Thursday - night, May 5, the Sophs staged the annual PlebeSoph Smoker. Speeches were mode by seyeral ot tt^e/Sophomores
L*)uls Fahnestock, Soph class president made the opening speech In which he outlined tbe dutles of the class of 1930-for next. year and eo&oijraged the Btrong organization which the Plebes have shojrn this year. Fahnestock ' transferred the duty .oC. enforcing Regulations from the .class of 1929 to the cla&s of i930i >  - ' . : l John. Barr, Chairman of-Plebe -Regulations in Arts School was the next speaker , and ha asked the Plebes to continue to observU>e Regulations untiV Qualification Day. He .said that there would be no . enforcement of them ..but that 
he. relied on the good sportaman-: ship of tbePlebea to carry: on;with th  Regulations.^ ;sA'i:omedy;.reel>.^M..a^ shown.
handed LHN
SIGNAL COMPANY WINS 
IWILITARY COMPETITION
Th Signal Com annual drill comt thewlilch was held on the cut at 11:! THursday, April 28. Company of the Engineers which won la: year's competition was a close se ond with Company C third ati Company B fourth.' Cadet.offlcei drilled their own companies I movement's which theyUhcmselves had devised. Each comparty had at Its disposal six minutes in which' to exhibit Its ability to drill. -The companies drew lots to determine the ohier in. which they would enter the .competition: Company B'of the Englneer-ui followed Ini order by the . Signal Company -and Company- A .'a Company B of the Engineer ui The judges for the competition wer Colonel Breml chief of the staffV ofNinety-ninth Division, Colonel Dunlap, commanding officer, of'the One Hundred Seventy-sixth Field Artillery, Penusylvania National Guard, and Lieutenant Barney,'office of United States-Engineer;' Following tbe competition the Battalion was formed, and th wli nqr announced.. Col6nel' Dunlap presented''the - winning-'iompahy. witha'silk Caniegie pleid .guidon, 
to b catTled as a mark of distlnc.tion for oue year. at" the. end - of which time It'villi he competed for
. ; :'Thirty-3lx: mombere of tbe senior, class -,ln electrlcai. 'engineering of Carnegie. Tech > visited the Bast Pittsburgh: worksot -thi house :Electric andManufacturing Companyon'Mondayftei Aprll:25. ^he. studenta intpecTed th-Various:typB f ipdactlonvm('
FEW SEATS 
REMAIN FOR 
C. W. SHOW
Cast of Characters Indudes 
Many of Drama Depts 
Leading Players
The Devtl.? Den, the < CampiiB Week Show,. to be on Friday aiid Saturday eve of this, week, will ploy to  house for both performances. Becond night is primarily student 
and nlumnl night, andN practically the entire seating capacity of the Nixon ThoaUr has boon sold out. A very few Second balcony seats are yet available, however, and may bo. obtained through tho Alumni Office. Many choice seats for tbe Friday tight perform located In many sections.01 theater, may be secured at Nlion box office. Th theater Is so constructed that almost
minute orders.
Nearly two been sold for th final performance on Saturday night, with th& Carnegie alumni body requiring almost half of th theater'sseating capacity. The ticket distribution was such as to place the graduates on the left side ot the building, while the students will occupy the right sideThe original-purpose of Uie Friday night show was lo provide an opportunity for faculty members, its of students, and citizens of the Pittsburgh district, to'see the ' The student demand for tickets so completely oqtials the iupply ;for ihe regular Saturday lerfomance that these persons lave been unable In tho past to lecuroseatB except at tho matlnoe lerfornmnces of former . yenrs. Phis year's Friday night Bhow akes the place of these afternoon performances of earlier Campus' Weeks. Show hali
A bit ofNow Orisons packed, cmlcd, aud sent to arriveand be aet up Intact.at Campiis Woek; umes that vie each with the icroamlng for supremacy Inbenuty, originality i 
)'Hooid feeling, On With the :h. will be our-.annual Mardl Gras to come this Friday, May 13. '[At this affair two orcheslated that furthe:
arm at the
ivil'sinderi Walter"Tbe,
Eleanor Lewis, Robert Pike, Don Vlltson, Irene Tedrow, Don MoClure, Leon Ford, Victor Esher, Jofiephlne Copae,- ..SVdney. ^GJUJn,. Lloyd-. Foster, Marjorlo Bariholo-.Tom Lewis. Marlon Beason, Garland Kerr, Derblri Horner, TeaMcCann. Judith Bnltor, Gracc ett, Kny Hnrringlon, Marjorie ire, Tom Fisher; Garrotl Kreber, Carlton Young, John Walker, Mitchell Bllstine, Arthur Sprlngle, Ice ICann, John Wooley, Edith Boyne, Matilda Bodycombe, Gladys
lubllclty is hardly Tlieso musicians, elevei 111 both play and per EFOgymnasium while the Virginia amblers will live up to their namo i attempting to ramble here''and er In th realm ot Muslc-land to pick out what' IBmost beautiful om Its collection and to-play for >e revelersin the' Union: "
To those ,,wh - <)o not already w,"" Campus' , Week is.the' one me of tlie'year when levJty reigns; and it scetris that. Mardl Qras, the 
third, avenlng.,- ovent;.\of,Cthe^we.ek.tho other, nlf*-*' Ity.. and. unne ronvontioniillty. Costumes om all lands, imaginary r otherise. take a peek at costumes from her lands and. go home the hap(CoiInued (
CAMPUS SQUEAK 
WILL BE DIFFERENT
th Caiupits Week of the' foremost arfty, namely, Max fieldSqueak. Tw tists of IheParish and contribute many, clever c the Squeak and help
to obtain the Is of euch fai Seidelplan, It Is Mr. .
iction the promlnenl feature of the threo issues. .In stead of telling'the happenings of the campuus. week.days iu words, pictures will be used.The eale of subscription ' cf palgn is under way and It is pected '-that very near a huridi per cent sale will reeolt. Every one should order a Squeali help along the good cause, price is 15 cents for the thr sues or'live cents a' copy. There will be booths oh1 the campus take care of -the town subscribe and to sell single, copies. - All subscribers In-the Dorms and Fraternities will have their papers delivered at their doprs' every morning' during Campus Week/ The papera are very entertaining, and arevety Interestlng in the. respect that one may read the Squeak -and remember his experiences during this memorable 'week.
the. American institute of; Eltri. cal Engineers, are looking:,forward with an unusualdegree/of interest to Uie, annual summer meeting .of the.Institute, which Is to be held Detroit,. June 20 :tp 24,.Inclusi'thisTlie program-.arranged s f< meeting. Is an. auueuailyvat. , one:. A dlverslty^bf - subjects;., botli practical^and theoretical,.-.will] be treated in.the papera .and discusaloifl.:,...'The. entertalQment,:portlf)n ol the urogram also. Is rather unusual. Including as It dpes visits large -. automobilemanufacturing and central; station , piants,- telephone dlaV ataUone, airplane plants, HJenry Fords fele.ctric-Tailway and 
..motor piantB at'Riyer ^i^e -and Hjghland. Park, and)the . great -Edison plants.: There also will be golf, .tennis, .; baseball^ bathing; moonlight dancing; excursion on ilsi^e'pauenger/steamVr.iintoibeau. tiful Lake Stci.'CLalre ahd .trips to
river to tbe soaik of Detroit
TWO ORCHESTRAS 
FEATURE ANNUAL 
MARDI GRAS FRI.
Huge Costume Affair In
cludes Both Gym and 
the Union
isle tt utter
i-wlll,
that
those .hat-y
Insplletofthe endlippeared In foi-mer years an ded variety that are in pro (lucUon this year, there are man: uiie$plorerl fields In the "dress-up1
STUDENT BODY 
RATIFIES NEW 
CONSTITUTION
Many Important Changes 
Voted on, Including Equal 
Representation of Schools.
BUDGET COMMITTEE 
TO BE SUBDIVIDEDMens, W. A. A, -and Night 
Sohool Lose Represento- 
tlon In Student OounoU.
preamble.
April 1, 1927.
Whereas, we the student body of the'Carnegie institute of Technology believe that the studont bodies of each of the four com. Pooont colleges should be united <up ot studeots'i
ntral organlsalioi by place such matters in tbe handB ot a reprosontotlve body whoso name, organization and powers aradefined below.
ARTICLE I. NAME 
Section I. Name.The name of thls;organlzallon eholl be the.Studeiit Council of the Carnegie institute of Technology.
ARTICLE II. 'REPRESENTATION; 
Socon I.This Council shall beimposed of 20 .voting'' represoutaves, with the Prosldent voting Intse of tie, andthree noa-votiug repreBontatlvos of the student body ot tbe Carneglo Institute of Technology, as follows:
President of tfce Student Counr
ioplo
LACROSSE SHOWN AS 
INTERESTING GAME
Carnegie,: Tech, and at many other eastern colleges.- It combines the skill of tennis In tlie handling of the crosse,!1 and exceeds . thei demands! of football in its test; of en-, th:jslty
real proficiency, la stick handlln and team work ts only attalnc after years of consistent' practic*
Lacro6.se is' played upon a field of about the samp'size and shape as a football gridiron/ There: are two goals,. 110 yards apart, which are: made from an iron framework covered with wire netting. .Each goai has a six-foot square openingfrontind sloidownpoint, sevenfeet back, forming-a pyramid-with its base-to the center, of.the field. There is ah!-18 bj 12 foot brea around each goal, which -is known' as the 'crease." Attacking playercr ere not allowed within this space, making il necessary for.thetfi to drive the ball Into the net from some -pointoutside of thls'marked. offarea. There, should' be 20 yards or more of playing territory' .hack of each . goal; making the.-t'olAl'> dimensions of the field lSO. by 70 feet or more. "Across tho. field, midway between tho goals, la drawn the dividing'or."offside .' (Conttnued'onPage' Three.)'
Carl' Haines; has' been appointed edltr-lhctefbf'theCarteglePuppet, lo fill the vacancy left by Riiae Bulilnger.- He ER a inember .of 'the Alpha-RhoChCfraternity.  I . '.- The ^Campus^ek'an Political Issue,' wii,malte.'.l\'s appearance1 to.dy. ,' lV;vf^:be:\'a'>Yge^M:page; lse; wlth^'. coyer design' Bob1 Lepper. ^f 'Bipcta intres'tfWiil be the 6nter spread;of th campus cleb^tles.Vi.sar^pimwiU la ..wcjl-lfn^wnf t'o^e'- ppe.t^re'Bders,, wlll-dlscourse-'orii-Campu "h ''* - alv be -am*" r>lfes asi other art id a.
lege.e repressntallves from theColldge of Engineering. -e representatives from the College of Fine Arte.Five representatives trom the College of Industries.Three hou-votlng asslstunt  secetarlcs from Margaret Morrlsoa : Carnegie Colleg.Section; II.(a) ..The President'.f the C6uhcirshall. be ectcd asr speclfled In Article IV. Section IIu. n(b)Tha MargarotMorrlspn -Car;:
negle College-shall be represented' he President, of-the Senato/ President of th Snior .Class, k senior representative, tho Treasurer of. tbe Senate, iyho shall bo a. Junior and w|io shallservo as Senior  representative tho following year, tlie Secretary ot the Student Council and .thrse non-voting: .assistant, secretaries.
representatives,. and tho Treasurer of the Seoate, who shali.be a. member of the Junior Class and' who shall serve, as .one. of theSenior representatives th'e follow* ing year.:(d). College ' of Fineshall ,be.represented - by the dent-of the Senate, the President: of the S<ebior Class, the First VicePresident of. the Senate, wlio Bholl be. a girl from the Senior cIasBh oi 
Senior representative and the Senate treasurer, \vho ahftll be a member of the Junior class and who shall sevve WG n Senior representative the following year.(e) The College , of Industries qhall be represented by the President of the Senate, the Prcsdent of -the. Senior Class, two Senior Representatlves'.- and the Treasurer of -the Seriate, ivho shall be a member of the Junior Class and . who .shall serve, ag ono. of tho Senior representatives tlie; followingyear.'Section 3:The term ;of olTIco of all members shall be,' unleiis otherwise' noied from the time of. election iu the' spring to the office which makes thatperson' a member, until the new Council convenes, and organizes In the following spring. Exception to .this Is - in the case of'the; four . Junior representatives hold over as
members' during ,the following
Section 4.In the event of o vacancy,-'- other .'than 'that 'of the': of' flce.of^reBl^ent, the ;next rankln?.. office of -that^ class or organization shall become a member immediately. The only exception shall bathe Junior representatives,; whose position shall te^ filled by another  etecUop. ,.. bection 6.. Junior Repreaentatlyes.--(a) The .representatives of . the. Junior' Class shail-. W ;el^ctea 
frora tbe Junior cissies ot each college,  by' th<9' members ot; that ' clear!  Each shall become .' auto, mattcally the',-.-Treastireriof Jhe'1-. Senate ftom' the Cotie^fe; In^ vrhicb :- he'-bas been,fel^tcd,'yand :a^li act' BQ.assletant'treaeurec'bn -the. Stu;; dont -.council1 during .;;:b'is'f Jiinlbr:. year:' with''voting priyllegesiv'antt ' sbal) 'also, act as. a Senior represeii. tative'" duringtiie following year. ;':, 'T .(b) . . The :' ;thr'ee . asBiBtaiit:;,kecre' itaries^ shall be elGcted.Vfrom the.junlor^'Glass'of Margaret'Monison ' riarnefei'e^Coilege by -'the : stuident; . ^y^of.Uhsit-'iollege^'/:. :
NPDY,N4- irr.  30RNY,YVI '.'LW. REPRESENTATION.  >4 ;J 0SCtiqD:I.~A^th^ ;Rations': for 'thec;ap'ri^.': elation; ' repreaentaUveB-f;'pf. - .the>:;'st;^denl':; Councilahail^p^ 
,orcanlxatloh'^electfnffy>r6presestm?\: ti*s 'thv0itud*ri*>vC*ttiDell (OohtlH*4 oo Fs|i four) :

---------------------------------------------------

CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our. Refreshment 
Entertainment is'most de
sirable for Fraternity and 
* all other School Affairs, 
experience will convince.
Small orders receive the 
same careful attention as. 
the more extravagant
PCe
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring enei Begin now to acquire those c saving and accumulating mnej 
An account with the Mellon N: tlonal Ban* will give you splendid start Persistent ea' Inga will develop financial Indi pendence. The experience, 1
Capital and Surplui $15,000,000.00
Mellon National BankPittsburgh, Pa.
 Thirty-seven members friends of tbe Soutbero California Clan onjoyed anInformal bridge parly at tbe.- University Club: on Friday evening, April 22, through the courtesy ofCharlie Crawford,
the Clan iiberfe, carried oil tbe tee,- n attractive vanity Bob Finkethor, much to 
bis .surprise, won a.handsome. Chi* cigaret-container, havJng the highest
was down from Sau Francisco, noticed that Dave Mason, seemed disappointed at not receiving a trophy, and eo presented him with a large brass samovar, ftave, however, 
ranted it engraved with bis name nd score, but< since this was not easlble. It was Anally decided to save the.prize'at tbe club.' And nyhow. it would have been o bit uipbersome to carry under one's
ELLIOTTS 
4010 Fifth Ave.
Store is Convenient "L1 
for Students
Supplies
CLASS OF 1917
Id-Timers ot 1917:
Sam Haas of Plainfield Manor. N. J.. vili call the roll at tbe 1917
minute checks up as follows:
Andrews, Baker, Blackburn, Barry. Blllotta, Bohannon, Borland, Bravermnn, Bucher, Burg, Utile Andy Carnegie, Carothers, Cosgrove. Butts. Cooley. Curtis. Dunn, Both Einsteins. Emmei, Fletcher, Gains. Sam -Haas. Marlow ex George Jacobson. Harwood. Hellelrom. Heston, Big Hill, Hoffstetter, Hubor, Jackson, Lou Jacobson In doubt but believe ho will be tbere, 
Karl. Katzman, Harold Kennedy, Jack Kennedy, Kerin, Bunny Keener. Llpman. Madison, Malthes. Merrill. Mumma. Norman, Norris, Merle iOrr, Tom Orr, Peterson, RembJer, Saleebury, Sondler, Schoenfeld. Schumacher, Sledman, Skoog, Smullen, Staehle, Wagner. Walker. Watson, Weaver. Weber, Ralph Williams, Warren. Williams. Ed Wilson. Wayne Wilson. Gordon 
Wright. Ziegler Selyquplst, Rezofsky. Warnor, Wolf.
Boys, ibis is the last he-man class that'Tech graduated. A prewar outfit all the way through beStringers Feature] 
Local Clan Luncheon'
Dr. Baker and Wally Steffen 
Guests at May Luncheon 
'  of Pittsburgh Clan
Tbe Pittsburgh Railways Commy recently entertained a group ! men, oil former employes of the Pittsburgh, who are 'eminently.iful In street railway affairs. Among those who again 
lted tbe training ground of their first experiences was Mr. G.Hocker who worked nights .for tbe Pittsburgh Railways Company In 1910 In tbe load dispatchers ofMr. Hecker attended Carnegie Tech before entering tbe traction field. From 1912 to 1917 bi chief eleIclan for th< pany, later becoming electrlengineer. At the present time Heckor Is special engineer for tbe American Electrical Railway 
iclatlon at New York.
of ballooi
was all efiot by the warfew wore in hand in person lo Ret their own 
degreen and'sheep-oklna. But say.d glorious feelborhood Btudents and Is stocked with merchandise required is
with low prices and expert <
Drawing Materiale Architects' Suppllei Engineers' Suppllci Artists' Material Technical Boofca
Still Cameras & Supplies Movie Cameras & Projectors Film Developing . - Eye GlassesSp'
llstment.
This is the last roll-call for 'ears. 'Perhaps at the next 'ou will not be there became . :ftnt. Are you going to miss this me? The past ten years hai taught us only .one outstandli ilne of associations and friendships. Let'>w tho good limen of college days irlng Campus Week this. year.
' (Continued From Page One) 
general Commercial Engineering 
Department publicity. OnlyI number can be distributed this year to the students. For t present 1t Is available to Freshm only. Any Freshman desiring copy of this book should make f pllcatloislble at; the Department of C<
PCes Pen Must Stay n PerSecf Order
or we make it good without charge
The custom of sending Gifts to Graduates has 
nowbeen extended by general accord to indude 
those in the lowerclasaesv/ho have manilesred sufficient industry to pass their final exams.
' ' Tb know what to give, one needs but observe the 
students1own expresaionaoI preference lor.tlie Parker 
Djiolold Pen and Pencil.,
To have earned the lavor o the younger generation 
is our reward lor serving it with studied personal in*. terest Wo have lilted the (rownsirom student brows 
[among others] by giving the world'a writing pair that arc inspirations to work with and beauties to
v.fiiyt thing tolookfar is thoimpnni^Geo. Smarter " 
on the barrala. Then .nobody will .be disappointed.
Porhv Dpof Ptdl tpmnU, tJu Bm.-''
a X42 ULB3W2I / MW19G7L0xc0'
Th K Co**
Ara
THE LADDER
The regular monthly luncheon of the Pittsburgh Clan, which was held in the Blue.Room of they'llHam Penn Hotel, wsb attended by about 35 local alumni. Quite a few new faces' were seen among tbe guests, and many of the regular attenders at the luncheons.
The luncheon was made most 
pleasant by tbe presence of The Stringers, an undergraduate musical organization from Margaret Morrison. Tbey rendered many popular numbers, both in i ocal and Instrumental presentations, 
This was the first-luncbVon at which any musical numbers' had been presented, and the InnovationI
was received with whole-hearted approval. In fact, when tbe alumni gave tbelr class, course, and place of employment, it was voted that I Ho girls give their telephone num.
Chatter Box
successful CampuB Week Many df the old timers not been here for several planning to come back.
be on hand for everything going on.
F. M. McClelland. Commercial, 
1925. who has been doing graduate I Columbia, will be on hand.
) of last years cheerleaders.
Marks who lias been wit] the Pittsburgh Pirates this sprint will be seen In the fifth row at th ihow. Saturday night Buddy Ovei 111 be several rows farthe
many of the songe th al burst forth into a hearty chorus, with the help of a clever little song sbeet made up by tbe committee. The Stringers, of which Phyllys Graham Is president, includes th< following members.: Hazel Mathlas. Katherine Smltb, Emm: Garvey,X Evelyn Rawlings;' Isobe Sheppard, Melba Shoppard, and Beatrice White. By moUon o( Fred Cogswell, tbe Stringers ' were given a rising/vote of thanks. .
The luncheon waB featured also by distinguished gudsts. In addition to Dr. Baker, Buddy verend 
and Wally Steffen, were pr< aud also Fred Cogswell,' recently appointed member of the Board or Trustees.
Dr. Baker gave a short about school aiTalrs, touching the additions and changes In tbe faculty for next year, and also made mention of the recent posai of a girt from the Typothetae Association. He then extended an invitation to tbe alumni to attend Campus Week, and to Join him in hla Informal luncheon to be held 
during Campus
FELIX McCLUHE
FORMER CARNEGIE GIRL 
MARRIES IN FAR EAST
That romance is not dead bas 
been repented'ly demonstrated since 
the world began. In a recent Is
sue of the Pittsburgh Sun were the 
laughing photographs of Mr. end 
Mrs. Marshall and Paddy Mar
shall, tiny daughter, aged S months. 
Above the photograph ran the sun
ny headlines: ! "Half Way Around 
World To-Wed. Half way around 
the world lo znarry tbe man-she 
lovedand half way back to spend 
the holidays at home. Sounds lib 
a novel, but It Is true. Mrs. Mai 
shall, who was formerly Mis 
Clbrice A. Stlllc of 756 Hazelwoo 
avenue, Is a graduate of Scbenley 
High school and attended Car
Tech Tor t' 
shall, also
CHS
tbe
>oke
Week.
Wally
;aln lauded the laid I
r Issue of Puppet Is on this week. Get yours at tbe i ii Headquarters.
Carnegie SongBook? .
Office. They aTe $1.00 a pl< contain all the Carnegie s>
jpy Campus.Week!
the athletic ming year. He 
>rk of the past t we could not through the coming senson on t record, but would have to build a team doubly strong, since we would be a marked team. Although his one or two days with team this spring have not given 
Y a line on all the material 
.liable, he believes that therms good material available
ber
In the -places of the i 
re left. He
i wbt ssed the
ilmistlc outlook, rather than c ipllmietlc oneT
^Buildy Overend gave a fo* alls about Campus Week and s being done at school for, thi ivent of the year. Ted' Ros rtted discussion concerning an lng to be held by local alujuni
t the weekly luncheons ^
ittsburgher, i 
Police Inspector B(1. In charge of the . of 'Pittsburgh. Mr. employed by the Standard
: tlie saine y ?r the Far:StlU<half-vid the world. She sailed from -York and afLer a flve-week i Madras in De shalls were mai rted In Bombay on December 2( tnber of the following yeai -the couple, now in possession of ly'ed ba.by girl, Pattfcla/o "Paddy, for short, bvegan t think with longing of Pittsburgh md their friends there. As a r ult the next boat for Europe ca led the young family to Cherboui vhere they embarked on a boat for Jiome. They arrived in Pittsburgh
Eighth Campus Week 
Begins on Wednesday
Various Features Reaching 
Completion as Annual 
Revel Neacs
Once, more Campus Week bas 
come-around, this time the eighth 
annual celebration. Although 
Campus Week may be well under Sy-or even over-by the time you receive this Issue of tbe Tartan, e a few' last minute tips... Alumni Office will be 'located In the Trdpby room of the w Gymnasium building. This >m Is Jaet to the left of the mldthe building, on tbefloorIfhere tbe gymnasium Is, just ask nyone on tbe camp Alumni Headquarters will be open Tuesday and Wednesday evenings 6 to 9, as well as during the each day of Campus Week. All. tickets and tags will be . obtained at the time of registration 
Headquarters, so if you have . sent in your reservations; do so immediately. Dont forget, only two lags per alumnuB, only to paid up alumni; tickets for the show per alum The show tickets have beeng at a terrifflc rate,and money be refunded on ail orders w cannot be filled.
means anything, tbe decoration! will bo the best yet seen. Besldei tbe^ outward activity, there be: been an undercurrent of movemon noticeable as well. Fraternltlei are planning decorations, pnshmobiles are caught sight of then, a trial being made then on tbe Schenley Pai Girls are seen' roller skating, tho sale of tags and tickets Ib und^r way. aud the long anticipated week Is at last at hand.Plans for the Alumni luncbeon are also completed. A pei cbestra has been engaged, ties have been obtained.
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
/ Mens, $6.00Color: Grey. -
Women's, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
"  red. ,. .Aufhammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
LOYALTY
Whittington Dress Suit Go.
6002-34 JENKINS ARCADE 
PHONE: /
DayGrant 2604 NightLafayette
' . STANLEY-DA
MAN @11
/IS-CLARK'S
TMQlis THELADR
Estber Ralston 
Hi^seall Hatton
Wednesday and Thursday 
May 11 and 12
Leatrice Joy
10B0DTS WIDOW
Frida,
Irene Rich
"DONT TELL THE WIFE"
Friday and Saturday
"FLUME OF THE YUKON
Seena-OwenSaturday
John GilbertTHE SHOW
Monday and Tuesday
LOVE MAKES EM WILD
jo&nny Hancem 
SaUjr Pbipin
Monday and Tuesday ,'s
Dolores GosteSloThird Degree
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TAMTAM OFFICE
for tickets have been re-The Seniors' are invited at the special price of $1.00 per plate, and tlckcts may be obtained ..from
be held at 5:45 Friday evening, before. the. Womens  Banquet, In the Girls Club Room of Margaret MorWe hope to see all of you Campus Week, and hope you have the time possible during your to the campus. vielt
ry good to be hoi >r,,tbey were obliged
at which time Mr. Marshalls lough expired.-Cnrnogie men and women often are known to accompllst usual and Interesting feats ^ they get out Into the world, gratifying to know that all accomplishments are not nec rially ot a dull, drab nature, romance and Journey of Miss i
STANLEY-DA VIS-CLARK'S
Evenings: First FISCHENLEY :
 THEATER
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MAY 11 AND 12
THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT
. BELLE BENNETT  MARY CARR
FRIDAY AND. SATURDAY, MAY13 AND 14
eLS2
GILBERTStars oS Big ParadeADOREE
ON
THE
STAGE
Andre Accordion Sextet
PLEATED MUSIC BOX REVUE
ALL
WEEK
MONDAY.AND.TUESDAY MAY 18 AND 17 .. 'DON JAN
JOHN BARRYMOREMARY ASTOR
continue durintin Pittsburgh the Wednes ore or after. Campus Weel ited to attend. They ar< the Cafeteria of the Wil
SCHOLARSHIP OPEN 
TO ENGINEER JUNIORS
The attention or Juniors in the allege of Engineering Is gain brought to the George H.. Smith Scholarship, which le awarded annually to a worthy Junior student od standing.
3 applicants-scholastic standing, personal need, personality and participation In s.cbool and clas3 ac18 are taken Into consideration in awarding the scholarship. The ird Is given by the Alumni Association of the College of Engineering, and the continuance of the icholarshlp Is; dependent upon tlie Interest shown by the Science Junlore.Application, blanks may be .obtalned.at tbe.Employment OSice or the Alumni Office in the Gym. These must be returned by May 21 scelve consideration, as the award is to be made before tbe closing of classes this semester.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Company A, of the R. O. T.  C.iber ot the Women's She is a member o1 Alpha Chi Alpha, national journal ciety for women
.'. (Continued From1 
and Miss Green, pEGR Alexander, and Mis Topp will Judge the. costumes.Arrangements  have been completed fortennis, archery and volley'ball contests whichwill be held from two to three-thirty ; Friday afternoon; The Margaret Morrison Plebes will meet the Sophs In volley ball. -.'Tbe .girls have, been practlcing tbeae aporta' for 'several days slnc the weather has'Improved and some Interesting competition Is promised; 1 .: The Womens Banquet Will be held Friday evening'at six o'clock ln^thelnn. Tickets now at $1-25 apiece-and the Y. W. requesta that; the-students',make
their reservations at an eL..w ___Dean: Gitou will be-the principal speaker-, and'itIs notyet'-lmown who wlll speak for the alumni.J' The - Qualifications Ceremonies will take placeat Thursday  afternoon In-'the Bowl' 
-with tbe Plebes tram all the-'colleges as mourners.
The
ichools. It ' was originally formed by combining tbe staffs, of Song Book, Student Handbook, and' the Directory, and now pub. each of these under Ioni In the last edition of the Handbook several ' Improvements made in the* design and the binding. The directory was made i handler size, and additions InformationIncluded In the edltioithis The retiring'-1 publicsmbera of tbe trlstaff'fere Francis Kolb, editor-ln-chlef, and Miss Dorothy Lennington, managing editor. - terlal for . the fall edition of the Student Handbook is now bed by tbe new staff.
ALL PREPARATIONS READY FOR MOST PEPPY CARNEGIE* CAMPUS .WEEK
(Continued From Page One) .' 11:45 p.- m.Coronation:Friday, May 13.
any).
2:30 p.-m.'-GirlB1 Volley Ball. 3:00 p. m.Track Meet (WestArchery.6:30 ]
p. 'm.Campus Week show. 9:00 p. m. to 1:00, a. mMardi Gras. .
Saturday.'Mayi^
10:00a;tn.Tennis. (Alumnae).11:00 a. m.Mens Sweepstakes. 1:00 p. m.Alumnae luncheon.^ j.;30 p. m.Country Falr.8:16 p. m.Campus. Week Show. . It might be noted that no tags will be sold after-:30 Wednesday.
Commencement 
isnt the end 
itsjust-the Beginning!
I
TS mighty easy to think of Commencement as the 
end of everything thats care-free and pleasant. But\ dont make that mistake.
The cold, gray world after college isnt so cold and gray to the fellow that tackles it in the right spirit.
Of course, it isnt going to pay you a ,fat salary nght at the start-off. That isnt the way it dos things.' Instead, it is . going to put you through .a. testing and % seasoning process which will measure your gritand your stamina and find out whether youre a dependable performer. s
^ Once youve proved your dependability, youll get re< sponsibOity and with responsibility-xomes income. And 
refiieiriber thisyoull consider yourself an experienced and dependable engineer long before the world admits it Its that-waiting-period , which will tryyourpluk,
In the meantime build your reputation of top-quality materials "Team up with, the best in every job you .. handle.. Stand for, fight for the best materials, the best 
designs, the best construction methods. Dont let your name get associated with second-bests, make-shifts and could-have-been-betters.
.. Its a great world. Ive seen-somethingmore than a 
entur of it and I^ know. And it wants you to make good/ 7

---------------------------------------------------

tiiov. mrV'. 10. \ar
SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE ENDS
formallySpring football sei 
came to a close Saturday, when Coach Wally Steffen addressed the members of .the squad 1W the VarBlty dub.room of Uie gymn&lum. Jadge Steffen' left Chicago Friday 
- night and arrived here Saturday aboat 10 oclock. Due to the fact 
that tie bowl wae in'usethroughoat the day EA - acommodatlng the unpnai interecholastlc track meet, 
the usual scrimmage on the Iat . ay of practice was called off.
' Coach Steffen therefore-conflnod bio activities to lectures, 
-learned' from  Coach-Waddell the details'of tbe practices ae they have progressed - during the past two weoka and these w viewed and mistakes a|d  pointed out. The boys -were given directions for the summer 
to prepare themselves for nest years season. Many of the boys will receive footballs In order ** practice and keep In trim .dui the summer months.The spring practice has been garded as highly successful fi every point of view. It has helped Coach Waddell a great deal Iq mapping out/ moves which he \ " make nest fall. It has been great value to tbe men in that they have all learned.new tricks about the fame wblcb will 8uiely come In handy later. It has also vealed much new latent which be used to advantage next All told the Tartan officlftlB start, their season , nest fall t more optimism than would bavo been possible except for this weeks of spring training, showingof some of the boys from last years Plebe team have done much towards giving the Coaches confidence in the outcome of next
The girls volley ball season was ' short-lived but active: The gameB during the past - week eliminated
Floe ArLB team was eliminated, 
leaving the Freshman team victors 
or this year.Baseball practice will continue 
ontU after Campus Week and then 
the class games will take place. Practise is ol noon-hour every flay.Tennis tournaments are a1so> scheduled to follow soon after Campus Week. As usual there will be a match during the C. W. program as part of1 V e girls' athletic contribution. All these practises have to be booked for 12:30 as the spring season Is so short that, once started, th Bportshave to bo run through In almost too short a time. Archery and tennis of cours be practised any. leisure hour
V A .DENIAL
? Oskar Norbeck and the re? maiulng trio or his famoui? quartette wish to state e? phatlcally to their admirlni? public that they are. not i
i the world r lorour aw Inspiring readings of
? any selection whatsoever and *? will do our utmost to make ? 
v our audience lend us . their -J*? ears,' Oskar says. "As to be*
filthy'*hey, how otten ?? do we take a bath?" .Remain?? ing trio"Sure!" ' *
PLAID NETMEN WIN 
TWO, DROP TWO
PLAID SCHOOLBOY 
MEET IS BEST YET
Columbus" Central Hi Wins 
Eleventh Interscholastic 
 Track Laurels
PLEBE GIRLS WIN V0LLEYBALi LEAGUE TITLE
The Carnegie Tech ra'cqueti broke even in tbelr .matchs of 
week, winning _ from Grove < and Georgetown, and dropping games to New Tork University and
: the
I free. Meiictl will bo
senla this ad when purchasing fountain pern at Singer Pen & Gift Shop,. .Jenkins. Arcade. Does your 
old pen need repairing?' TakeIt: to Singers, * '
STUDENT SPPMES 
C. M. STUPT
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue1 9unday.41 A. M. and SP.U.Wednesday, 8 <P. M., Sunday School, 11 A. M. I
BUTLERS
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET We Deliver All Orders.J. o: BAKER, ManagerMayfloi 7644
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques. School of 
Dancing -CRAIG AND FORSES STS.
' Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday - and Saturday EveBlnga. Private , lessons by appointmentMayflower 7891_______
I FLOYD M. JACOBS
3806H FORBES STREET 
I Oakland Pittsburgh,- P;
VAround'tho Corner from
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE . 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before thedaysofCoronafnoet colleg.be Porh vteJr.beP bubBom-' ISCeH Ct IoEbNBLIIber r Y:uCI, SeJ CbBbets tI N:Bk Ie bubBo c:CCbHb IerIvb N:BCJr M:Bb, BL Ie usb I:Jto Ive,tCC :IvbB ' mtkbs' :f E:BuPCbb c:mPLebJr Cbmb Ie teJ Ibt Ivb, CtIbsI m:JbCr II II Ivb CuI N:BJ Ie E:BItPCb IoEb. NBLIbBsr rSIteJtBJ f:uBmB:N kboP:tBJ, NLJb ctBBLtHb, INbCub - otBJr BLPP:em:Bb , PL: 'mtbvCebr fbtIuBbs Ivte r teo r :IvbB E:BItPCbrm' PBLcb L :eCo^440,00r >  Wbr fLCb: Rtub'- ttmb PtBHICet Ie rusbJC:B.r ett tt CbN tt I2SrOOm L mrmu ' 
STSNDSRD TYPEWRITER BBuELNV 
II. FIFTH SVENUE , 
SICteILc QM2
Penn State. Grove City i first opponent, being' defeated Carnegie courts Monday, Mi by a 6-0 score. In this match, the toam showed up well considering the fact there are several Sophomores on the team with Jlttl. slty experience. In the si Tech won all Tour matches in sets. The doubles, however, 
herder lo win each going three ,selB.
Wednesday evening, the began a three-day trip to Washington', D. C.. New York, and Penn State.. Those making the were Manager N. P. Mitchell, Caplain John ' Hooper. Joe Schmidt, Art Glaser,'Bob Coffee, end Harold Carpenter. They arrived In Wash
ington the nest morning end took a trip about tbe city In a. sightseeing bus. In tpe afternoon, Georgetown was defeated after an exceptionally hard fought match, three of tbe einglos going thr< sets. As only three courts we: available, play lasted until near 7:00 o'clock. In this match, Ca 
tain Hooper suffered a strain tendon.
Aftor an entertainment In the evening the boys took train for New York arriving there tbe next
>rnlng. Tbe morning was spentresting at the Fraternity Club. Because of the dampness of the University courts, the match was played on the[ Fleetwood Tennis Carnegie -suffered the first defeat of the season. A parently untroubled by bis Injui of the day before, Captain.Hooper took over bis man with ease. C penter strained an arm mue but, despite this handicap, madi v.ery good showing. ,
The players left New York .11:00. that night and arrived Penn . State the following day In time for lunch at the various fraternities. In the afternoon, they dropped a hard fought match; ti the State men on the University CourtB. Manager Mitchell and tbe players were especially pleased with tbe treatment accorded them during their stay at Penn State. Leaving the school'at 6:15, the 
team arrived back in Pittsburgh -at 1:00 Sunday morning.Taking into ' consideration that only one match has been played before tbls season'and with bnly three days of out dooT practice, the< team made a very creditable show-Thesi the :
The eleventh Interscholastlc 
Track Meet was run off laet Saturday. May 7, In the Tech Bowl, with the Central High School of Columbus, Ohio, carrying off the top honors by annexing 29 points. Washington, Pa., High School won the second honor, with a score of 17 points, Satyu, Ohio, High School
Individual scoimg nonors went o Brown, of Columbus Central with Following closely
with ten points. New rocords 
were established In the following events: Javelin, shot put, broadjump, pole vault ead the A, B and C classes of relays. Lewie, the Schenley ace, accounted foi 
two tied records In.tfoth lb< low and high hurdles. v .
Much credit is duo Manager Downer and his assistants for the smooth handling of' the meet an the speed in which the events wet run off. Beginning at 10:30 a. xu and continuing through tbe day ui id athOn the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
sonhected with meet. About sixty etateasent teams to the meet, with a total of over , .That sis - meet'records were broken and three  to the high quality of
*mer meet record.  The quarter mile final \---------------) event, with Miller-of Washington High-the victor In the recordne of 61 4-5 seconds.  jCongratulatlona are due Columbus (Ohio) Central High ftawarded to the ttrino the highest numberits, their team annexing 29 points, while many a &ood teai eleas, \Manager Andy Downer and his assistants ire deserving of a great "p'Mrt1 in-'making-themeet ao-successful. That in off eo smoothly speaksdeal of praise for'their part' In -'making the a meet of the size of,thls one was run off e for the thorough, preliminary work pf thesi
THE VARSITY TRACK TEAM : dropped a m< neva College, at Beaver Falls, by were unquestionably supreme in t but the longer distances and the other field events w<
Saturday to Qe42 score. The Covenautera tpretnO in the weight events and la the .sprinta,
>ntested. From 1of the score, the Carnegie teai * rather weak, but we think that Id work/wonders with the runners.Both varsity and plebo teams will i
of really hot weather.
iiitation gracing the'r
lelesthelolnltnecessary to gain, the eted trophy. 'Following themeet.a dinner was given tbe athletes, at which time a beautiful trophy given Columbia Central while cups were awarded Altoona, Westinghouse. Peabody  and Washington,- 'winners in the relay events.' Medals were awarded second and third place teams and were also given "to Individual ocorera.
. The student body as a whole is lo be commended for Its wholehearted response In entertaining and housing the visiting trackThe iand i: of the meet by" the all that could be desired, summary of the event follows: ivellnWon by McCurdy, Mo gaheln; second. Frey, Akroi trai; third. Tittle, Columbut Ira); fourth, Wilkins, Wllklnsr; flllh, Passo. Salem.:e. 166 ifeet 9 inches (new
fore th rest of the schedule Is
' With one possible exceptfon, ^.the team will play at home the 'rest of the season. This will, be another hard week, matches being held with Pitt and the Campus Week opponents.' The Piebes lost their first start ot tho season to Rayon High Youngstown last Saturday 6-0i Tbe slngleB were played by Cambacb, Kllenr Wagner, and Connelly, the double by Klien and gagner, Cai bach-and Wite. The Piebes.wei scheduled lo open their season la Wednesday with Turtle Cret High as guests hut weather <
t. followtlona. prevented this.The scores for the
Singles.Dudley (Georgetown) defeated Schmid (Carnegie). 3-6, 6-3, 0-4.Illig (Georgetown) defeated Hooper (Carnegie. 8-6, 3-6, 6-4.Glaser (Carnegie) defeated Helskell (Georgetown) 9-0, 6-6.Bride (Georgetown) 12-10, 6 0. Bride (Georgetown) 17-10, 6-0.Doubles.Schmid and Glaser' defeated HHfe and Dudley. 10-6,Hooper .and Carpenter defeated McBride and Heiskell '6-3, 6-4.
New York University.Singles.Schmid' (Carnegie) defeated Show. (N. Y. U.) 9-7, 6-4.Tarangell (N. Y.. U.) defeated Glaser.v(Tech) 6-0, 6-1. ..BrUwer: (N.'Y. u.) defeated Car(Tech) 6-3, 6-3,
Stehmid and^GIeser 4-6, .6-3, 6-2.Brower ' and Ressler defeated Caffee and'Carpenter 64, B-10, 6-2.
'  . Penn State..-  Singles.' Schmid (Tech) defeated McCowatt' (SCate) 6-1, 0-2. -Cooper (State). defeated Caffee 
(Tech 7ro,- M.. .  . ,  ^RoBonberger (State) - defeated irpenler(Tech) S-1,,6-4. ,McCabe (State "defeated Glaser (Tech) fi-2, fi-2.Doublet.Cooper and Rosenberg defealteS Schmid' audi Caffeey7-5, 6-4.
.::Hooper,.andi; Carpenter ..defeated McCowatt and Henkle 4-6. S-3, .7-5.
Grve City." 'Singles. Schmid (Tech)^
Discus^
Washington; third, Schmid. Salem; fourth/ Boyd. Connelleville; fifth, Shannon, N. Akron. Distance, 110 feet ii Inches.Hammer throwWon by Johniton, Washington; second,.Fisher, iarrlsyllle; third, Hundtermark, Washington; fourth, Herbert, Salem; fltlb, Graham, Wllklnsburg. DlBlanco, 125 feet 4 incheB.Mile run. best time In .each heat Won by 'Johnson, -McKeesport, 4:41; Becond, Thomas, 'Mononga4.45 2-5; third. Ramsey, Washington, 4.46 2-5; fourth, Sleeky, Connellavllle, 4.47 3-5.'-fifth, nan, Greensburg, 4.48 4-5. yard runWon by W. Miller, Washington; second. Brown, Columbus Cenlral; third. W. Sauers, Akron South; fourth, Shaw, Rayen, Youngstown; Atth. Kern. Akron 
al. Time, .51 4-5 (new recyard high hurdlesWijn by Lewis, Schenley; second, G. Vane insburg;' third, Brown, ColnmCentral; fourth, Barrett, Rayfirth, Stehle, Connellsville. i, .16 4-5 (ties record.) <880-yard runWon by Brown, Columbus Central; second, Perkins, Salem; third, Multon, .Rochester; fourth. Beck, Turtle ' Creek; fifth. Brown, Greensburg. Time, 2.05 1-5.
100-yard dashWon* by Moxley, Columbus Central; second, N. Miller, Washington; Strlbllng, South Brownsville; fourth, Dudley. Peabody; filth, Wagner, HarTlsville. Time, .10 3-6.Shot putWon by J. Keister, Frostburg; second,Romlto, Riven na; * third, Heckman, Boawell; fourth Slake,, South Brownsville; 
fifth. Thompson, Washington. Distance, 45 feet 71 Inches (new rec
ord.)220-yarddashWon . by, Moxley, Columbus, Central; second, Flannagan, Unlontown; third Barrett, Youngstown, Rayen; fourth. Goehler.1 Akron Central. Time, 23 2-6.120-yard low hurlesWon by Lewis, Schenley; second, McGough, Holy Rosary; third, Strother, Beaver; fourth, Daley, i^trobe; fifth, Felter, Rayen,. Youngstown. Time, 
13 4-5 ..(.ties record.)
Broad jumpWon by Brace. Steubenville;., pecond, Tittle, . CoL 14>rd.)iches (new
 High jumpCooper,'."Westinghouse; Wilson. Monongahele; Felbenger, Erie Central, tled.dor first place; fourth, Shelton,.. South Brownsville; fifth-,' Allen; 'Salem. Helght, 6/feet SJvinches.: .Class A rtilay'Won by Altoona; second. New Caslle; third, Beaver, [me, 3.38 (new record.) -'Class BwlayWon by Peabody; icond, Columbus Central'  third, Akron - Central. -. Time, 3.38 2-6 (new record.)vClass C TelayWon by Wash-. Ihgton;.. second; .:; Turtle : Creek Union; ;third;.-'Greensburg: fourth, Monongahele; fifth, Latrobe.. Time, 3:39 2-5 (new record.)' Class D relayWon by' West* inghouss; second. - Youngstown Sonlh; third. Rochester.; fourth,
(G.-C.) 6-1, 6-0. .Hooper ; (Tech defeated Price (G.- C.) i-4, 6-2. ' .. Glaser (Tech) defeated. Hassler (G.C.j.-i,:6-3.Ciffie" (Tech-defeated -Madory ,(G.\C.y 7-5,i6-2^; ^ I '
v Schtnld - and.. .Glaser/, defeated 
Prlce and Madoiy 7. .*2,; i.Hooper and ' Tener - defeated Haualer aau Reeee/l^^.i M.
Pitt should.win, but
Peon State. The mstcl been won had tbe Plaid i
:redlUble showing on its Eastern -y, ant losing to New York U. and sre hard-fought, and might have i able to practice a little more bei City was defeated handily last Monday, in the ason, incidentally being.-the first day outdoors f m. The season recpnl.to date Is/two matches w counting the match with the great Pitt team yeBt
with the Spring Footballers c lecture. One has only to heat 'understand why '.Carnegie' yes mes TNjm teams that unqueetlonablyjiave It, than Carnegie ever had. .. ^
Red Godden vJaited the school last week. While few present.atm ats were in school when Red wae, practically all have hoard or him. Ihqugh-he never receiyed'-nationarrecognltion, be was-wlthout a jbt one of the best ends that ever played football.' He is now with i White Motor Company in Cleveland.
 Pitt frosh, will hav<
Akron North; fifth, McKeesport Time, 3.43 3-5.Pole vaultWon by Allen ]em; second, Ewing, Wheeling; third, RoeBsler, Salem; Martin, Westinghouse; Goulash, . Sot Brownsville; Psh, Beaver, tl Height. 11 feet 73 Inches (new r 
ord.) * 
The ball Is made from soil'd Ifta rubber, about 2% inches diameter-and 5. ounces In-welghL
that the ball can be caught...,' The
with tennis shoes which may rubber or leather deals. Helmets and large padded leather gloves are usuallyworn to protect
>ly the Goal Keeper, usually plays inside of the crease! id defends Ihe goal; P< * st man from the go^l; (
nd Third De
thewith the opposing Center; the Third, Second, and First Aleck; while the players who are iearBt their opponents goal and >lay opposite Ihelr opponents 'Point and "Cover Point . are ailed Out. Home and ' Inside Home. The'game is played in :wo periods of 30. minutes, with :he teams changing goals at the half.i game is started similar to basketball, by a draw of tbe two rs, from the. circle In the mid>r the field; The draw Is performed by placing the ball between the backs of the sticks of the opposing centers who bold it off of the'ground. At the sound of.'hlstle, the centers draw-their etjeks apart and endeavor to gain rol of the ball or direct It to of hie team.mates. The,side with the ball attempts to carry'it 'da their opponents goal, and if possible to drive it into the net, unless tbe opposite side has gained
ither goal. The ball may be advanced by carrying it in the ci'bsae, or l It Is the ground, by kicking or knocking with the crosse. No player may touch the ball but the il keeper, who is permitted to stop. or ium aside the; ball?in any The attacking^players atdrive the ball lhto their opponent's'goal, and the defending players try to intercept the ball and.start it the other way. Corresponding to tackling in football, a player may be checked by the use of the body, and the hall may be knocked from his crosse. Only players ..who ,-havor tare; about to the; bMlf'may^be -checked. In tnuer. An: off-side penalty Is lnfllcted if .a.team has less than three men on the altack or less than three -men,' not counting the' goal keeper, on the defense. ..This prevents massing, of players and iae(|uently the EHowlag up of game. When the ball'goes out of bounds -or - ^> foul .Is 'claimed,!'lt Is put back. Into play-by-!'facin^ 
free throw, at the discretion of the Referee. A ball can never be brought Into action ln;thl8.manner within 10 yards of the goal. There umpire  behind each goel, and; the referee Is.the flnaljiuthorIty/ A field captain Is-appointed 
by each team to-settle disputes and aims of fouls with, the referee. Players may be suspended -from the'game,v^lt^er. wholly.,or in; part, :hecause 1- of,  personal or: .'technical fouls. Substitution Is .\\suallyr ei-. lowed, after; i0'. minutes..'Ai-..close 
check'must;, be - kept on unnecessary roughnesf,1. ' because ..it.' Is i Injure or get i iured ln a fast: Lacrosse.gajpe.,'...
(Continued from Page One) 
equation, of the Cycloid to g 
themselves confidence, decided that 
Ihelr knowledge of tbe laws of 
friction was sufflcent lo enable 
them to produce a car that yould 
it go up' Industries Hill 
der its own power. After making 
solemn vows tbe interest li the matter.gradually decreased nc til with one week' left for.preparaR the situation la the Bame as ill previous years. The result Is that the vehicles will be just aa hard to push and' as. Irritating, (o
year. -Every fraternity has a select little group of hUstdeo who 
"if they were only eligible would be football regulars.* After much perauuaslon these strong, men will condescend to'go light on liquid 
at the Mardl Gras
Ises - *-/6o men will receive their usual cold bath at 4 a. m. and wlll be tacked to bed for a few hours
The Tappa Tappas will of coune
hav an entry. Provided that the 
members of this venerable organisation -are. able to navigate the-, course record should be - broken. It-' you - remember, In past years 
they were always the last! to start and the fint -to finish. -
These moderns demand Camels
MODERN smokers are the most demand goodness, and find it in 
critical ever known and Camel is Camels  the. choicest tobaccos 
their favorite Why? i grown and matchless blending
' Camel is the one cigarette that That is why Camel is favorite in 
will stand up all day and as far the-modem world 
into the night as yoii care to go. If you want the choice of the
Modem, experienced smokers hardest-to-please smokers of all 
know that they can emoke one time, if you yearn for the mel*
.or a million Camels with never a lowest mildness that'ever came 
tired taste or a cigaretty - after1 from a cigarette 
taste. Present*day. smokers "Have a Cameir* 
R. J. RBYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM, N'. C. j
college
I
A,s the Juture t large organi? That is what _ want io know,first of all. The queiltov is best answered by the accomplishmerits of others with similar training and/fie opportunities. This is one of a series of advertisements, portraying the progress at fVestinghouse ojcollege graduates, off the campus spme Jive^ eighten years.
Frenger Came Here to Sill
W
HEN R; 
F. Frenger 
; was at New M exicoState,m 1915, 
automatic, con
trol for substa
tions, hydror. f. Pn6sm electric generat
ing plants, railway and mine sub. tKe market.'apparatus, since he had taken an 
M. E. degree. .... After a period in the Westinghouse sales school j he'became .' Westinghouse salesman land an. 
interested in switching^ipparatus. order that puts the San Antonio -
He spent many months on the sub-stations und,er automatic
engineering side of the work. control. When the Holland'ye-'
 He spent, several years as a sales hicular tunnel opens,'and'cpii:
specialist in the Westinghouse nects Manhattan with the Jersey '
station systems, was. a hazy \ Chicago Olice. shore, Frenger can. point to the
dream. Even five yeais later,;Thepr aut6n,atic rswitctiiiTg *> signaling-systein as coming
Not long ago, Frenger ran out 
to San Antonio t help the local
Westinghouse .Company/ auto
matic switching was far, far away.
Todayj however,Frenger, still 
in his thirties, finds himself in 
efFedt.che SalesManagerof
of they Automatic Switching downtown: office, /building turns
Section of the Switchgear Sales off and on eleven d|fFerent sut>- . 
Department; : ' stations scattered throughout the1
. Frengers work is.pioneering . ' city and;.its suburbs t6_op^rafe; v._ 
....  .in:-a very realseriise,for the auto-, the railwaysystemIlf without,
automatic, switching* business^- ,v matic control biisineW4usQ: -as lV>.ng Hi. ch^r. i I?rengers^eci 
aJbusiness that runs up into seven lt 13> sall |S lft tts lnfancy. Engl^ &on again.
figures every year. .. neering. ways and means must 1 It is another: case of ar well. -
. . Frenger ame toWestinghouse : be supplied as well,as specialized ' jtrvned man in a. pioneeririg or-' to sell. He expected to sell steam;: sales.skill; The whole world is ganization. -
Westtnghonse

---------------------------------------------------

PHOKB MTF10WEB ISM 'FoMlaM.oiic every *k <*nrtBe'tb olfcE tBV br oad*.
Flttabmh Post Offlco u Mond-flM matter.
\ " EDITORIAL STAFF ' ~
Editor-In-Chief....... Merrill HolllneheadManaging Editor..-............... .................Sam Well'.News Editor............. .......... ..Francia KolbAthletic Editor...... ...........Frederick D.Wooda
CONTRIBUTING 
Ellenor TsllmadgeRussell BulllDger Ralph HItcbcoi * A JL Fisher
Robert M.'Pew
Eugene ScanlonW. Bel
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredith Stamp Milton CobeaFenton Finn : Jean Roy :
ALUMNI. EDITORS Margaret Russell ' Herbert Oran
; JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine Clark \  v - : /  John Schneider
REPORTERS Etewart Ralston Bob Yonng.' . Clyde Park
Cyril Letzelter Ruth BramW. H. Worland Eugene Jarema raui iroBieWillladi McNoll Helen WhJtehUl W. W. HayKatharine ODonnell  Thomas UppertJacob Carpe Bower Maze ' Hyman Levinson
Business MamBUSINESS STAFF. .Arnold PerretoaCirculation Manager...........=............... .B. SupowltzAdvertising Manager................ .Shelby McMllllOn
' BUSINESS ASSISTANTS JameB Seibert T. R. Zenk RNoble
CIRCULATION'ASSISTANTS 
U; Sacks  G. W. Brehmat .J.Rj BrownH. L. Marshall' C. E. Blass . . M. Matlnlck G. C. Harbison S. Bluestoae
^ SUICIDES AMD GENERALITIES
I ' (Reserve Weekly) 
Some fifteen or sixteen,.college students.jave 
committed suicide in the pest few weeks.
The suicides con be counted, but the gener
alizations which they have generated (
The sorriest aspect of the matter is the ten
dency of some col)cge'profes6qrs to generalize, 
with little more basis than in the illustration 
given above/oil tHe current college generation.
That most of these generalizations concern de
merits rather than merits does not help much. 
AVe should like to point out in passing, that it 
has .been our experience that most of the under
graduates -who inspire thesegeneralizations 
think they are trueabout the rest of the stu
dents.
ON BEING COLLEGIATE
(University Daily Kansan) 
'Collegiateone dictionary gives the 
meaning, related to a cojlge, and others 
assign a sjmilar meaning. "We con read or hear
numerable as the idiots who can break into of collegiate literature, collegiate athletics,
newspaper print. On successive days of -one collegiate drama withorit/flinching, even with a
week the suicides were variously attributed, little pride at times; but when itcomes to
by authorities., to the study of philosophy, hearing the word bandied around by merchants
love affairs, failure in scholastic work, atheistic' and eales-people as the choice adjective in reteacliing.. in colleges, degeneracy of modern gord to. the prevailing mode, it is almost more
youth, and eo on ad nauseam. Even college than any thinking college^person can endure,
professors, who are old enough to. know bet-- . . To.be sure, college trousers may be greater
ter, joined in the orgy of explanation of all jn circumfernce than the established 16 inches,
the suicides by single theories. nl college coats may have lost tho cape effect
The fact that none of the -generalizers couliJL ' from the waist down, but at that, colleges
know the real facts of vey particular case, or should not be blamed for.the sartorial extravathat few knew the real facts in any one case, gantes that sections of the garment trust"
was not of the slightest hindrance. The possi-' have managed to thrust upon the shoulders of
bility that every one of the suicides had a diftheir customers under the misnomer of colferent caiise, if it occurred to the ready legiatc.
arialysists, was barred by^the Union of Amal' Permanently flipped .hat brims, never-turnedgamatcd Generalizers as illegal. That the down overcoat collar^, and the eternal barecases of the suicides of these students might beadedness of a portion, of the younger generanot have the slightest connection with .colleges tin, is entirely in accord with the. trend of
&H things 'scholastic was not even considered'for - modern fads among college, students,' but it is
a moment. ' ' no doubt an idiosyncrasy and a temporary conThis is not written fis a defense of colleges or vcnicncc with the students, more than it is ft.
college teaching. What \?e are striving.to showing of law and order ia regard to the
point out is the unadulterated assininity of the rules of dress. | v .
.generalizations made in; this .particular-in*  ' But such things as'these idiosyncrasies and 
stance, and of th many, more-generalizations conveniences ar.e promptly , seized upon and 
of which they are typical. Is it any wonder . made a uniform, stereotyped thing by those 
that the public conception of collegemen .is who, never attended, college and who dont
often limited to two pictures; an irresponsible want people .'to find it out. Many, things are
young animal bounded on all sides' tf a racreally collegiate, but theyre not the glaring
coon coat, or a quarter-baked member of the  styles , or ultra-modern fpds which outsiders
intelligensia who spouts abstractions.__________deem collegiate.
Statue of Bard of, Avon
Honored by Pittsburgh Club
: Homage was again' bk
the BaTd of Avon by. an. incarna
tion of his patron Queen Jn front 
of Carnegie Institute several Sat* urdays'ago.
Stepping from a. . Chevrolet, Queen Elizab.eth, accompanied--by, 
her entourage of courtiers and courlleans, crossed tne concrete to the clicking of motion picturecam-' eras; mounted a step ladder, and above the fulminant twang of the trolleys on Forbes, proclaimed an; ode to her pet poet as she crowned bis cast Iron semblance. - with a wreath of lilies and laurel.This event was the celebration or the three hundred sixty-third birthday of WilliamShakespeare In front of hisstatue, at the Institute.' Each year similar eiercises, epensoredby the Shakespeare Birthday Club of 
Pittsburgh,- are undertaken with the aid .of members from, om partment of Drama, who abt ting tableau in keeping with the occasion.Of the Renaissance there Is n greater Englishman than Shake: 
peare, yet we -know hardly anj thing about him, for .his person
has disappeared EA hiB work; and like a sky rocket of which nothing emains but the Iridescent spiral, ie baa been transmuted into hiswn manifold creations/ Having isen out of nothing he is like trange, scattered music, mysterIqusly.Jj^ougbt together In the Eng. listC.sby of the Renaissance, like those strains ..floatlng in the magic' that .concert of . Invisible spirits led by the celestialvoice of Ariel. .'ne Tedrow,- reghial in herregalia .of brocade .and pearlbroid;ed farthingale, was unwittingly beau'tlfulr as her vestal eminence, the Queen. Carlton Youug played the part of Sir Walter Raleigh punctiliously and
MUSIC COLLEGE 
PRESENTS ALLAN V. 
NERN IN RECITAL
lepartment of Music -
Giften,
The Heg al sport model pictured . 
fairway' from coajt - . urt^to^coait other ehoe mede by
Its built: naRuiri* Calf and. Smoked Elk combinationand lit Back Calf, and Blk.
Gee: the other: porty - tylts' io :- the' new Regal Lioe shown by.our RepraentttiVeand then '  yoiiH < know, why. Regala re the. .vp^ulerchol on isty-leading
'^.vsSSSS"..':' . i-r."1'REGALSHOES
 On Diipiay '
Jaganui & SpickerT
ahbllmityj Sidi. _____ ..
Queens , attendant. submitted h< inost engaging smile to. tic-syncophantlc focus; while other members of the tableau assimilated with the situation. . rBach, on the other 'Side of the steps, unnoticed by the crowd, ^eemed lost in a fuguing meditation;. nutating to Michael Angelo, who solninly reciprocated the nod 
with' the self assurance and satisfaction that he, himself, had also been a. sonneteer; while Galileo, far removed and unmindful or the ceremony down the ' square, 
tinued to .divide, distance with the compaqs on tie globe.
Justice,-standing high above the Institutiiever watchful ove sacred quartette, sent, sifting' 
with her gratnoslty, soft tfetais of the. solemn ceremony;
. ._ t befitting the gods,'andthus reminding. Elizabeth and . her courttsana that although blosson - falling in Stratford pn Avoi isp .chill of winter has froi not departed:
........................... Fussreisi....................Gesang Weylaiss ...... Schlagende Herzeiss ...................... Zueignung
IVre.......LInvitation au Voyage
r>uparc..Le Manoir de Rosemonde Paladllhe. .. :. .Jai dit aux Etoiles
A. Walter Kraer...Beauty of EaTth I Have Known liveliness' 
Yet the Days Pass"Jn the Deep Hush Of a Starjeweled Night1 .Clouds Matthew Frey at the piano.
here, t
Ask Me Another
By~ John L. Porier
in the Carnegie Campus?Stales, are repre^ seated in the student body?2. How many religions are replanted In the.etudent body?4. How many major departents are there In the College ot 
Fine Arts? How many dormitorloB are there?6. How many national fraleroi-les has Carnegie? t7. How' many local fraternitles?
G. Keebles questiona In last weeks Issue:Leonardo da VIncl <1462- 1519) was paint tect, civil and military engineer, often ir in advance of,his time In his espeTiments on mechanics, hydraulics,'and aeronatlcs, In anatomy, geography, astronomy, anil
The . Court House and'jail designed by the celebrated can architect, Henry Hobson Richardson (168B48BG). and they were his favorite achievement....3. painters, John Alexander 
ind Mary-CaBaatt Singer, Louise lomerr Composers, Stephen Collins Foster and Etbelhert Nevln. Shakespeares "Two GentleApril 23, 1914. P
St Peters. Rome ' (Michelangelos design, which waa altered the building); the Caihedral at Chartres; the Temple at Edfu; tho Parthenon at Athena.
:ulptoi isidan. He
7. Violin, viola, violoncello, double bass, and often the harp.6. The anniversary of Shakes peares birth, April 29. 1564.- 9. (a) Sculptor; (b) painting; (c) sculptor; (d) music.10. The two thousand three hundred and twenty-second public organ recital was given at Carnegie Music Hall last Sunday. Dr. Helnroth 1 .has ' given almost 1,600 of
MODERN lIBRAIjiY ~||
- The New. spiritHavelock EMIe.
/ For Havelock Ellis, this book Is not'as. good.as1.!! should be. It restricts him' too. much.. A great .deal of H' coiiid have been donie by lessermenmen, - that.is, whoso 
ends' - are: congeal tally. flt^ccto grasp a pointer, or a! measuring rod, or a mirror. Tben,^oo, Ellis 
is not a. mode Greek (though mitted, with somelblng of a slant to the eyes and - a - complexion rather too . olive for Athens)id when he attempts to Interpret the modern ' spirit he does It with something of a grimace; when .he preaches modern science, modern tolerance, modern this and that,i rather tha
scalpel or i thyrsLike ' Mr. Shaw, however, he knows that unless be does excite himself a great deal over new, live things he wUl .be called old end dead, and neither ' Havelock 
p.or George Bernard could ever bear to be called either.Ho Is not.,a scientist; he is an artist. What he wrlteB is not a treatise, but a paean. Or I should say, what be ought to write. For he has the ability to analyze when he feels like It, and he can th* dull degree-chasers at i game of addition and subtra< and mystification better than i
.Ellis tries very bard' Indeed.- - Th rosult is that 'we 'have from bli a large . number of Impression! comments, analyses, afflrmatloni and theses, which, though admlri ble, i
beat ;
So that, after all, we need not bewail his defection too much. A Casanova, a'St. Francis, or a-Whltman needs clarifying and eupportlng, and a Freud needs vindication and humanizing-To most Nordics the warm bright soul, of Spain needs interpreting, ' end, to be heard by our dull ears, the throb and hum at the ;core of life must be amplified If-we would not lose it amid all the surface clatter and
itatlve boobIs Interpretation end criticism, and 
for ' him who would understand 
fully the forces that have been at work through the last century and a half to produce the modern world, particularly the world of ideas, It Is well-nigh essential. As leaders In the great advance Ellis has chosen Diderot, the encyclopaedist; Heine, the prophet; Whitman, the egoist; Isben, the preachor; Tolstoi, the seer; end Huyemanns, the aesthete, and has devoted a separate essay to each
In tbe essay dealing with Whitman he says. du'Tlng one of his many digressions (and it is his digressions and elaborations that valuable writing, for
lisesj Now If a poetveompro9 he Is - lost, and EUis was 
apoet.> la a critic now, but ho i.e. a rate one. He can analyze with the best of them, and when appreciation' Is adde'd : to analysis be almost comes Into his own.. Almost, but not quite. He will never to that felicity; he-bas spent uch time . digging In other gardens, and not enough In blB 'own. But if he has dug he has also planted, for he Is too faithful a disciple' of the great God Pan not te, drop a seed here and there In an Inviting furrow; and to this devout, procedure many stout shoots owe their-being.
-ecious and enduring thing.
in In Ellis himself, elation of bis owi
tbeHe 1wise.refined, cultivated and humai lonely figure in the riidst of the horrible and depressing barbarity that now passes for civilization; andIt may be that, even though he has muffled his voice'by allowing it to speak too often in the a* cents of other men, it will be remembered by future generations as one which spoke out bravely In order that tbelr - lives might be sane and -normal, and their spirits beautiful and free. -A. E. F.
star bill of Kelth-Albee vaudeville and feature motion pictures. . Tho -principle screen attraction will be Harry Langdon In his latest laughter success, Long Pants.. Langdon. who has gradnfled from tworeel-comedies into reature leugth production^. Is one of the-most popgluax fun-makere before the screen today, and israpidly takJng hia place in tbe.front rank of njlrthful stars along with Harold Lloyd and. Charlie Chaplin.Dave Apoljon la primarily a musician for he plays upon four dlfother lim>nd recognizing his ability, a: lpularlty the Kelth-Albee vauc llle circuit has taken him and resenting him in a products /hieh makeB tbe beat use of I arled talents. Singing, dancit nlrth and instrumental music, a Ls principal Ingredients. Co: lined with these are beautiful c< and setting* lo an\aze t
(Continued from page One) 
Abbatlcchlo. - Elizabeth': . Dlnells, 
Abe Fedder,. George Kerntielle; and 
Alden_ Smith.' ... I
The .play is being..directed ;'by| 
Theodore. Vlehman. The technical, 
staff is as follows: - Art Director, 
Lee. Mitchell;. ^echnlwi^DI^tbr; 
John L:' Haijjfng; IStagejManagers, Joseph B. Cox and.WllUam'Aijhur; Bookholder, Maxliie Flnsterwaid;. Lighting;. Marlon - Cox;' Properties, 
Ellen;M{chle,. l^ris^Miyersi'r.'and IJohn-vWalker; Cpstumaire^vEUaii*. bcthSthrader..v-'-.'.v."..- v^T:':yj .l|'iEa'ch';perfoniuiice''Jschedaled
COUNTRY FAIR PLANSINCLUDE NEW ACTS
(Continued .from Page One) the Fair .mentioned 1n . previous stories'they have,secured an African dodger who will present' his head as a target for dll hall throw* ers. . They-have also obta 
hurdy-grdy men who wl hand with . their organs ' aind moneys. In addition to the old time fiddler to'play for the old'fashioned dances, they .-will have another old timer toeall the Th. usual, balloon "peanule. popcorn,..and candy yendora wlU he pfeseht' to coinp.lete' the: setting of a.Country Fair.  :. .The.'::barkers for . the. Fair whiwill proclaim' the features of .the of the College of Fine Fair : to aliwithin the radius of. p. m. and no cards of adi 'mile'include. Al Mlnetti, Leonard i wlU b required.- Flowers,;: Pooch Kennedy,- Chauncey: Yelie, 'and Caleb -. Hofnbpstie.'In ; addition :to their announcing other stunts they will present their
. (Continued From Page One.) 
close columns. Here they will be Inspected by Dr. 'Baker, escorted by his' staff, including Major Taylor, bead of the Military Department at Carnegie Tech.The battalion will then parade lo Langley Lab headed by the Kiltie Band. They will pass In review in columns of platoons, car. rying the National and Carnegie battalion colors. The Signal Corps will also carry the silk.n which it won as the best drilled company of the battalion. On reaching Langley Laboratory the battalion will be dismissed by companies. It has been arranged that. the. scheduled, drill will be omitted: for those-. who participate in the RevleW-and a'special practice will be substituted in preparation for the Reviews
id Dorothy Charles as well aB' his unique Manila Orchestra. Novelty and brightness and sure fire ability t<- please are characteristics that have made the act a great success, wherever, presented.
French manner, for a. part of his new vehicle .Evening Clothes*' which.is to be the screen feature at the Stanley-Davls-Clark Gi the" weekof May 9. , Evening qiothes is a Nemart 1927  model love-comedy. Smart snappy Menjou has never been seen to better advautage and will be supported by an. excellent cast Including Vlrgiiiia Valll. Louise Brooks and Noah; Beery^ The tory was adapted from the French ilay The Man In Dress Clothes by Andre Picard and Yves Mirande ad wqb directed by. Luther Reed, ho ls responsible for the success of Menjous.The Ace of Cads.
They will appear thethese, artists eek of May 9.John Barrymore and hiegreatest lotion picture > spectacle. Don Juan, ls the feature for Monday d Tuesday, May 16 and 17, at the
ledy, news and novelty reels ppear with each feature picBills are changed each Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
. MANOR THEATER
Beautiful Esther Ralston will hold the screen at Stanley-Davls Clarks' Manor Theater Wednesday and jiiursday in her latest sirring vehicle "Fashions for Women,' with Raymond HaLton supporting Friday, Irene Rich ,in a great edy drama Don't Tell the ^Vife with an excellent supporting cast. Saturday, John Gilbert; the star of the Big Parade comes to us again in a picture equally as good, The Show,  with' Renee Adoree supporting hlmi and Monday and Tuesday exquisite Dolores Costello in her greatest role as star of "The Third Degree;1' Selected comedies and news events with each change of feature.
STRANO
In this constitution.
 4 The -President-elect -shall at
tend tbe Student Council meetings after bis election In cooperation with tbe retiring President and take office two weeko previous , to 
Commencement Week.
(b)-1. At the spring elecuon of President of the Student Council,' the candidate receiving tho nest highest number of votes shall be 
Vice President of,the Council.
2. Iii cose of the Vice President succeeding to the Presidency, another' Vice President shall be 
elected from and by the Studehl 
Council.
.3. A.new president ot the Sen
ate shell be elected in the collego in which the former Vice President 
of the Council was President
(c) Tbe Treasurer shall be elected at the last meeting of the old Council'from the .'Assistant Treas
urers of that year. In case a .vacancy occurs in this office it shall be filled by election In the Coun
cil from..the. Assistant .Treasurer* of the previous year./(d)-The Junior-', representatives 
automatically become assistant treasurer^ of the Council; (e) Tho. Secretary shall be elect
ed at the last meeting of. the old Council from the Assistant Secretaries'of that year.' jn. case a va
cancy occure ln this office It shall 
be filled by election In the Com-., ell from the Assistant Secretaries ol the. previous year. '
..(Continued Next Week)
 Lafayette; Ind.(ij.)The gospel of the' benefits of electricity os tbe farm-and In the home Is being tdlana. lectrioexhibition car,'.which' Is tonrlng thestate under the direction of the University, experiment station, the schooL of electrical engineering end the Indiana Electric Light Association. - Over 12,000 . people have Inspected the car during the past four weeks.
A tip...
ladies like 
the aroma 
of
Edgeworth
Pajamas Are Vogue
Choose Now Your 
Lido Style
Featuring
Bright colored Broadcloths 
$1.95 to $3.95 
Printed Satines for lounging 
$5.95 to $10.95
Whatever type of. Pajama 
.. you prefer;
Whatever price you wish 
to pay ;
HORNES has it..
JOSEPHHORNECO
The Department of Music has' also made an announcement con: cerning the four recitals to ba given by members' .of this year!* graduating class. The first of these recitals, will be given on Monday,' May 16, by Allan 'Nero, tenor. On: Sunday, May. 22. Ella Scahlba Will be followed, on Thursday, May ?6, by Ellnore
who .will present free samples to .the crowd at,tbe fair, the follow-) ing have announced, their Intent tr ,paticlpate,.ltt. the : dislributi .Tech. : Ic v ream. opipany, Heinz I Md onjpny, Westlughouse Bleetrlcrand -Mnnfactnr!
DAVIS THEATER
Dave  Apollon, celebrated and versatile star of the stage with
rtista illa. production ,uhusually,,'.-beautlful and spectacular calied.:"AnApollor. nlan.Revue," is to,he' presented';iiii. the Dftvls Theater. Flttnburgb,
"Nobody's Widow, featuring Leatrlce Joy and Charles Ray pomes to the Stanley-Davls-Clarks Strand'Theater Wednesday and Thursday, the picture 13 a knockout havinj? placed In many of the leading theaters throughout ' the country. Friday and Saturday, 'The Flame of the Yukon, a thrillnfe melodramatic picture ofthe Canadian Northwest, with. Seena >wen and Arnold Gray. t Monday and : Tuesday a great ' comedy drama, Love Makes 'Em Wild, featuring Johnny Harron and Sally Phipps. Selected comedies, and
Tbe Way To Co ToBk EUROPE
Comfortably 
and Save Money
Tourist HI Cabin formerly 2nd claes, mtiBllyamidshipaoDProniSlUPEWTpdUwtVBtSITYToPHS (with college credil if denred)
England July and August. .
BALTIC AMERICA UNE
Union Trust Bldg., plttsburgh
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Pederal 
Reserve System
MThe Oakland Bank
Capital - - - $300,000.00 
Surplus j- - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
SCHENLEY THEATER
\ astoundingly flne bll) is t< 
ented during the week of May 
the Stanle-Davls-Clarlc Shenley Theater,'Forbes street, Oakland 
'dlBtrlct, with stage attractions o' 
outstanding worth and a new pm Impressive motion-picture crop. Oi Monday and Tuesday, May 9 and 10. Esther Ralston. Elnar Han'soi Raymond Hatton will offer : lightful piece, Fashions for Wo? aen whlch combines beauty, plot, ictlon : and, thrills amid a background of. scintillating loveliness 
ind romance.  ->"The Fourth Commandment'' is .the :klod of film' drama that ls always widelytalked ; ahont It ha^' a' sen'sdtional' theme vividly prsente'd and so unusually true to, life that lt strikes hotne witb-' a smash. It furnishs exeptinally. palatable entertainment and was' subtly 'and deftly directed b'mor Johnson,'- noted.director from a-story .written eepeclally for t\Ve Xcteen by-Ws mother. It will be'shown on Wednesday -and Thursday; May
.... .i masterpiece of -the .thrillmatefs.art: -, '  ,:; Andre'e Accordian Sextet, a pleated; musi: box rv which ici thrilll^ogly 'unuaual and 'which wll pr ent;in 'nlque^manner,^ ularvandSeyaUn^.M .num:.^re'^tt'th^'eff^t-ota^f^ |ftwtthn'^fIoui''M
 with each c
feature. ' '
CONSTITUTION ' OF THE STU
DENT COUNCIL OP CARNE
GIE (INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY 
uties"the i!ntatlv<
ARTICLE TV?.ORGANIZATION!OF THE COUNCIL Section 1.The officers shall be I'presid'ent, a vice president,' try.and a treasurer.) . 
jsection 2.(sii 1. One candidate for President of the-Student Coi :il fr th following year shall ilected hy the student body of each college not later than tbb last t-April. Only third year students, regular members of tbelr classes.
Ubt'later than the'second.week May. The 'three defeated' Candidates ' shall - autbmatcally hecom President of the' Senate In' their respective-coUege.Tbe - college from Which tbe President ele the Student Council waa chosen shall elect the '' President 'of its 
Senate when 'the" other officers" of that college are chosen. 1'2. In case of the President be; coming, ineligible "or leaving school or. otherwise-- causing a vacancy, the Vice President^ shall; succeed 
as: Ptesldent and conllnue'as such' for the remainder, of the.tern..
,3.'. The President of the Student Council. thfe 'President of the.Senate InVt^'College.and the rPresldent ,ofthe^Benior daisin ' each
,dihe' B
O
VER two million, cubic yards of rock blasted liter
ally from under the very feet of New Yorkers 
without even jarring^ their famous metropolitanisznl 
Since, the; adoptioni of plans for the EighthAvenue' 
. Subway in 192$. contractors under the direction of the
New' York..1City "Board,pi Transportation have been......
busily blasting a 57;mile tunnel under -.the most neon* >
- gested traffic centers of Manhactan and Brooklyn;''
Steam ,shovels.and motor <iump tmclti .cra^J:Oyerandr 
under and in betweed a lab^ntK qf .tu^Sj tunrLelisigas 
and water mains.. Smallchargasofdu Pont Explosives,'" 
ag^egating many tons, areof great trucks, scurrying taxis, ^dJiUTT^g'p^es^i^J..;:"
. with: all the. safety precautions pr^crib^dThy.'ifTe^alcyi 
. One of the many wonders of this wonderfijl cityVv 
When completed,'thu^ubwaywiU contain'17b.miies.of;  trackTnorerhan.doulDlingthesubwayfadIitiesofNew . York. The cost of cohstniction will b'e appfowmatelvv; 1 
$400,000,000..The,^entire cost of this great fetibway is es* ; >: timaced-.at 'a -'half. Billion dollarsone of the most re* >* 
markable(enterprises in|the history of citygovemment.'  
Du Pont; laboratories,' du Pont engineers and'. 6eld . 
scryice men aie^votking constantly 'with users. of ex*: * .
plosives, making^ available the knowledge and^skill ;:of ^ v 
125 years of explosives experience.. ^ i . .
E. L DU PONT DE NEMOURS fit CO., Inc. : y
'  'ExflojiwDeifwrtmerU ; V;.i"
WTIM1NGJTON..DELAWARB . /' V
125 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP 
IN THE SERVICE OF INDUSTRY
