The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1944
H., Simms Will ^AR STRIKES TECHPlay At Carnival
The Spring Carnival Committee 
has been forced to change its plans 
because some of the soldiers will 
have gone by the time the Spring 
Carnival can start.
The new program has been ar
ranged so that Brad Hunt and his 
orchestra will play on Friday night 
instead of the Army Regimental 
Band. At the middle of the evening, 
the Dramats will present a floor 
show consisting of a number of spe
cialty skits. Lois Nosich will sing 
a few numbers with the band, and 
also Parker Myers and Mary Ann 
Brown will each sing a selection 
during the program. After one of 
the band numbers, Marsha Vahter 
will give a short comedy skit.
The Saturday afternoon carnival 
program will not be changed at all. 
Any fraternity, sorority, or other 
official campus organization can set 
up a both to sell refreshments or 
provide entertainment for a small 
amount of money. There will also 
be a few sports events for any sports 
enthusiasts that are present.
The climax of the Carnival will 
come with the announcement of the 
Carnival Queen, who will then be 
crowned. Joey Simms orchestra 
will provide the music for the eve
ning.
The Spring Carnival Committee 
has announced that the price of ad
mission has been reduced to three 
dollars for the entire affair. Every
one who has bought a ticket for five 
dollars will be refunded two dollars 
as they enter the door at the gym
nasium.
Costume Ec. Club 
Toys For Britain
When homeless, bombed British 
children first clutch the stuffed ani
mals being made for them by the 
Costume Economics Club, the sev
eral hours work devoted to this 
War Relief project will be more 
than justified. As Miss Virginia 
Alexander, department head, stat
ed, They will come at a time when 
a soft toy will do fuch to allay the 
nervous strain of bombings.
Displayed in a show case on the 
second floor of Margaret Morrison 
are the first six to come off the as
sembly line. More will follow until 
a total of 25 such toys will be turn
ed over to the British War Relief in 
town who will then distribute them 
in England, to children whose 
homes have been bombed.
A green bunny, looking quite 
alive with bright eyes and grin in
jected with brown yarn, and ap
pearing almost ready to jump up 
and hop away, is the senior of the 
lot, finished first by Iris Kwall after 
two hours of work on some old 
scraps of material found at home.
Flanking Mr. Bunny on either 
side in the glass case are two 
horses: one, made by Mary For
man, is red and white striped 
against a gray background and 
Continued on Page 5
AS ASTU LEAVES
Womens Fraternity 
Will Give Concert
Ernie Lowenstein, 
Sopii Physics Major, 
New Tartan Editor
Last Saturday evening at 5:00 
P.M. in the Tartan office, Indus
tries Hall, a special session of the 
Editorial Board decided the fate of 
that publication for the soming sem
ester. It was decided that, despite 
the small size of the summer stuActive and alumnae chapters of 
Sigma Alpha Iota, professional fra
ternity for women musicians, will 
present their annual formal concert 
this Sunday, March 26, at 8:30 P.
M. in the Exhibition Room, Fine 
Arts. The concert is open to the pub
lic; no tickets will be required.
The program and notes of inter
est follow:
Music, When Soft Voices Die ....
.................................Joseph Clokey
The Piper..........Mathilde McKinney
The Lullaby... .Mathilde McKinney 
Alpha Mu Chorus 
(Mathilde McKinney is a chapter 
honorary and pianist with the Pitts
burgh Symphony.)
Three Portraits of Old Denmark..
........................ A. Moller-Holst
Andante con moto 
Moderato 
Scherzando
Ruth Behringer, first violin 
Ruth Zimmerman, second violin dent body the paper wiU be printedj
Svelyn Dumont, viola as was year> during the sumLois Barber, violoncello mer semester. For the top editorial
(A. Moller-Holst is a graduate of positions the board elected Ernie
Carnegie Tech and a member of the Lowenstein, the creator of the Outalumnae chapter.) . look, as Editor in Chief, and AdeSonate, Opus bd-----Sylvio Lazzari j-ne jjerlick ancj A1 Perry as CoEvelyn Dumont and Betty Bell Managing Editors.
Scherzo ......................... Saint-Sans News Editor for the new semesRutli Luebbe and Janet Stang ^er j-,e Nick Georges. Si Corwin
T0................ ;................Brahms wjjj hold forth as both Feature and
Andante poi piu animato Sports Editortaking the place of
Allegro con brio Marshall Nuremberg, who expects
Betty Hewitt, horn j.0 eave he campus soon, in the
Marjorie Hill, violin latter position. Jerry Brickman will
Lucy Borrelli, piano ^ ticklish job of copy reading
(These three actives were the winand seeing that the Tartan struggles
ners of the Pittsburgh Concert SoUp to proper standards of news pubciety Contest for Young Artists.) lication as Copy Editor. Appointed
Sigma Alpha Iota..........Lois Fisher as Junior Editors (flunkies to you)
Chorale..........Margaret Blackburn were John Riggle and Clara Her
ron. Pfc. J. W. Vaughns position as 
Six Students Buy Bonds; Army Editor will be decided in the
wr 1T .1 i tot i 9 near future, while the position ofKeep Up the Good Work. Army Sports Editor just vacated by
While falling way below Techs the departure of our hard-working,
quota, the final results of the 4th long-suffering Private Irving PerlWar Loan Drive still amounted to mutterwiU rcJma>n va'ant sin,f ,Hoo  I * j is not expected that there will be$20,930 in total amount subscribed. much Army spQrts news the fu_
Two other interesting facts containture.
ed in the results are: civilian stuAll the members of next semesdents bought the least number of ters senior staff are sophomores.
bonds and had the smallest amount Ernie Lowenstein, by the war, has
subscribed; and, the army had neardeveloped his marvelous control of
ly as many subscribers as the facul*e En8llsh >anguaSe >" ,thf Past
ty and administration. th"ee ye/rs sc,? hs ar"vaI as a,  refugee from Holland. Adeline Her-The final statistics are as follows: ]ick js a MMCC girl who is major.
Total number of subscribers..............232 jng in General studies. A1 (Smog)Faculty and administration ..............116  ,, , , ,The Army 107 PerrY 1S that sophomore Electrical
Students ............................................. 6 Engineering brain who makes it so
Off Campus ........................................ 3 hard for the other bovs when theTotal number of bonds sold..............303 prof marks on a curve. NickFaculty and administration ..............157 _ ,, , . .______The Army 136 Georges is the only Aero engineer
Students .......7.7.!!!!! 7 17!! 7 6 in the Tartan office and acts accordOff Campus ...................................... 4 ingly.
Basic Engineers 
Leave For Combat
The basic engineering AST stu
dents on the Tech campus left for 
parts unknown at Friday noon, 17 
March, 1944. This move was in ac
cordance with the War Department 
edict of some weeks ago which pro
vided for the transfer of the major 
portion of ASTP units all over the 
country to outfits more directly con
cerned with the winning of the war.
The men leaving numbered in the 
hundreds. They had comprised the 
entire complements of Companies 
A and E, and also small parts of 
Companies B and C. Many of them 
had been at Tech since the inception 
of the Army program in May of
1943. Still others were complete 
strangers who had arrived in Janu
ary from the cloistered halls of the 
College of the City of New York.
The men, outfitted in gas masks 
and helmet liners, but lacking slide 
rules, were bid farewell in a brief 
valedictory of Major Raymond W. 
Boberg, Commandant of the post. 
Following this ceremony, the men 
marched off campus for the dura
tion and six.
Pennsylvania station was reached 
by foot, and the men embarked on 
one of the PRs conveyances for a 
point somewhere within the conti
nental limits of the United States.
Left on campus, pro tem, are a 
somewhat smaller number of ad
vanced engineers. Their status, at 
writing, was indefinite, and the flu
idity of the situation was great 
enough to keep them perpetually on 
tenterhooks. Their position may be 
more clearly defined in the near fu
ture.
Dr. Walter Berl Wins 
Young Author's Award
Early recognition of his abilities 
in reasearching the electro-chemical 
phase of engineering came to Car
negie Techs Dr. Walter E. Berl last 
week when he was notified that he 
is to be presented with the annually 
awarded Electrochemical Society 
Prize to Young Authors and the 
prizes will be awarded in commen
dation of Dr. Berls discovery of the 
explanation of the formerly mys
terious operation of the oxygen elec
trode. Dr. Berl will receive the 
awards in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
next month.
The Electrochemical Society Prize 
to Young Authors, an award of 
$100.00, has been granted every year 
since 1928 by that organization to 
the young man under twenty-seven 
years of age conected with a tech
nical school, college, or university 
who has written the best paper 
printed in the Transactions of the 
Continued on Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1944
AUcrii A\4ContnC
To The End That We May Remember
One Friday in a past November we strolled nonchallantly into the 
pigeon roost that is the Tartan office, sank back into a red leather swivel 
chair, propped our pumps on the editors desk, and before our King Size 
had tapered to ashes, we had lost our identity. Gone were those blissful 
I days. For the duration of our college career, our personality was to be 
strictly WE. We became a multiple being responsible no longer only to 
one person. Ours was to be the power behind a voice that would speak for 
an entire student body. In our heart we couldnt help but feel just a little 
proud, for we had come a long way, from the curly headed little six-yearold who wrote poetry about the snow and dreamed of starving over a 
typewriter in an attic.
Now as we look forward to being thrust roughly back into our individ
uality, we can not hide an oversized regret. It isnt easy to blot four years 
out of ones life, four years of heartache, of fascinating personalities, of 
inner satisfaction, of creative expression.
Unlike most departing editors-in-chief, we can not feel that the Tartan 
is destined to fall. We can leave with the utmost confidence in the staff that 
is to carry on. What they lack in age, they have more than compensated 
for in interest, ability, and spirit. Last year, they joined the staff as 
inexperienced freshmen, but freshmen anxious to learn and willing to 
give up the necessary time. Throughout the past semester, serving in the 
capacity of an editorial board, they manned the guns like seasoned 
veterans and are largely responsible for whatever success the Tartan has 
attained during that time. Because of recent changes in the size of the 
student body, the Tartan will, of necessity, be a smaller paper, but the 
quality will not diminish with the quantity. To our successor, we bequeath 
the keys to one slightly used typewriter and a sincere wish for every 
success.
With a reluctant tear, we bid a sad farewell to the most vital force 
in our college life.
Sic Transit Gloria ASTP
The Sword of Damocles no longer hangs over the heads of all the 
perspiring, ever-wondering engineers of the ASTP. For some, it has fallen;' 
and in falling, has provided the energy necessary to transport them to units 
with guns. For others, it has disappeared, and leaves nothing but fond 
(sic) memories of days and nights of uncertainty and restlessness.
On Friday last, the greatest shipment of soldier-students took place 
with the departure of all the basic engineers on campus. The probability 
of their leaving had been strong enough to keep them from being taken 
entirely by surprise. They were, therefore, rather prepared to leave the 
hallowed shrine which is The Carnegie Institute of Technology.
They had time to bid Vale, Vale! to all reminders of Calculus, 
Physics, etc., etc., ad inf. They had time to take proper leave of all the 
beauteous Belles Charmantes of the campus. They had time to say good
bye to Pittsburgh in a manner befitting their psychological importance.
Because of this abundance of time, they will have the power, in later 
years, to look back on the time spent at Carnegie Tech with something 
more than just a hazy recollection of LLI scales on log log Duplexes. They 
will be able, as they recline in their comfy, just-like-home, foxholes, to 
think back to these lackadaisical months, and all the hilarity contained 
therein. They will reminisce over the long, graceful zephyrs of soot rising 
and swirling above the city, and then descending in fantastic, poetic move
ments to coat the lungs. They will look back on the comaraderie of the 
Canteen, where the bonfire blazed merrily away whilst beholding civilian 
fraternizing with soldier. They will recall, with dreamy eyes, the blatant 
cylinders of female slacks which tripped lightly and most fantastically 
over the campus and the Arts Building. They will never tire of recalling 
the shrill tinkle of voices feminine which rent the air with their cries of 
Dar-r-r-r-ling! 
These, and many more, are the memories of Carnegie Tech. They are 
what are brought away from the campus along with the comprehension 
that aluminum cannot be welded. To those who have left, and to those 
who may yet leave, they will be College Life.
All in all, Carnegie is not a bad place. It has a number of things about 
it which we have been prone to criticize, but there are many more things 
which are really worthwhile. The faculty, for example, is top-notch. 
Usually, anyway.
Those who have left, and those who may leave, wish to express their 
appreciation of all that has been done for them. They are grateful for the 
education received, and the friendships made. They realize that they had 
seven or ten months of velvet, and are fully appreciative. They wish the 
best of luck, and say good-bye.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWEft **0 PHONE 8CHENLEY 4581
MMMItriD TO NATIONAL AOVWTIWIM V
National Advertising Service, Inc. After fflce Hours Ca"
College Publishers Representative d Editor-In-Chief .............................SC. 6888
H. ,SimsiW Sl^ W^A RTI^ K^ R^ Business Manager.........................SC. 8951
CMCMO * Boa TOM  LOS AMOSLCS  Saa Fa ARC ISC o
Entered as ecoafl-eTaaa matter In tlie Pittsburgh Post Office nnder the Act of March S, 1X79.Published week!/ daring school year, except holiday* and examination pertoda.Subscription Price SI. 10 per year.
Editor..............!..............................................-....................................................... Louisa Saul
Military Editor ............................................................................ Pfc. James W. Vaughan
Business Manager................................................................................................... Nick Reed
The Outlook . . .
More and more political observers in Washington have begun to won
der at the means and ends of our foreign policy. The State Department 
set off on a new course at the signing of the Atlantic Charter and ever 
since trundled along on that one track without seeming to notice or react 
to any of the new developments in the complicated international situation.
We are striving toward^ close cooperation after the war between the 
allied nations, especially between England, Russia, and the United States. 
Such a cooperation is possible only if each of these nations sets out towards 
the common goal of lasting peace with the same purposiveness and author
ity. Today this is not the case. While we are still clinging to the provisions 
of the Atlantic Charter, promising equal rights of self-determination to all 
nations, winners or losers, Winston Churchill has recently announced that 
England will only accept unconditional surrender without any promises on 
the part of the Allies. The American public is left to wonder whether our 
statesmen agree with this deviation from the Charter, for the State Depart
ment has taken no actions and issued no comments on Churchills speech.
Russia has abandoned the principles of the Atlantic Charter and the 
Teheran Conference in the Polish problem by trying to impose a puppet 
government on the Polish people. Again the State Department has offi
cially neither agreed nor disagreed with this course of action.
Another problem which Washington seems to have ignored is the 
muddle of the Balkans. We have taken no sides in the conflict between 
Marshall Tito and King Peters government in exile, and completely 
forgotten the animosity of the Greek people towards their King.
The Italian question is hanging in mid-air. Although Russia has taken 
the initiative by recognizing the temporary government of Badoglio, the 
State Department did not commit itself for or against this group, and has 
taken no official action in the problem of the King.
Most directly important and dangerous to us is the South American 
mess. The State Department failed miserably in the settlement of the 
Argentinian question, where a more or less pro-fascist government is still 
in power. After all our threats to Argintina proved of no avail, we tried 
to unite all other Latin America into a political front against that country, 
only to be set back again when Chile suddenly backed the Argentinian 
government.
There are a few more unsettled problems, but the ones mentioned will 
make it clear that our State Department is falling down on its job. We 
cannot begin to establish any kind of lasting peace without a clear-cut 
policy, and the American people are entitled to know what their govern-/ 
ment is going to do.E. A. L.
Student Employment
This column is a weekly service 
to members of the Tech student 
body. Through this paper we bring 
you the best in working opportuni
ties for the week. Rarely will any
thing found here lead to the well 
known profession or even a white 
collar job, but they will line the 
pocket with coke money, or street 
car fare home.
BOYS (Meanirig any male mem
ber of the student body between 8 
and 80.)
Three are needed to vend various 
and sundry soft drinks for the 
Spring Carnival Friday evening and 
Saturday afternoon and evening. 
The renumeration for this menial 
task is 50 cents per hour.
A budding engineer is needed to 
run an intricate piece of engineering 
equipment, the lathe, for a company 
downtown. Either a mechanical or 
electrical (possibly an electric lathe, 
surely not a coal burner) can begin 
his career here at 65 cents an hour.
HandymanA little professional 
apple polishing at the home of a fac
ulty member on Saturday for 50c 
per. (Who knowsit may be one of 
your profs!)
Driving a car for an elderly lady. 
Any free hours, day or early even
ing. 50c per hour. (There is a little 
question here as to whether or not 
the lady is going to ride in the car. 
Also it may cost you fifty cents an 
hour for the privilege of driving. 
But if you have a free hour look into 
this.)
Houseman (Who in hells he?) 
at local bowling alleys. 6-12 Mon
day, Tuesday and Wednesday. $10.00 
(Who in hell cares?).
BOYS (as before) and GIRLS 
(Any blonde, 54, blue eyes, whew 
figure, please report to the Want Ad
Editor at earliest opportunity.)
If you like to give counsel from 
3:20-5:30 or 7:30-9:30 at 65c an 
hour, try the Brashear Association 
Settlement, they have a counseling 
job for you.
And if you are going to have a 
whole summer otherwise idle (Are 
there any who are so blessed among 
us?) there are many other counsel
ors needed for summer camps. (We 
have it authoritatively that these 
are not Army Camps.)
GIRLS (Where is the blonde?).
Care for children, Regularly or oc
casionally. Anyone who has done 
this knows that it is steady and not 
occasional once the kids start tear
ing around the house after the fam
ily has gone.)
Girls wanted for dress shop Sat
urday and Monday evenings. 50c hr. 
Contact Mrs. Searle.
.. ACAC Minutes..
Thirty-eighth Meeting 
March 15, 1944.
The meeting was called to order at 5:25 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Festenstein, Marcus, 
Van Deusen, and Wolff; Misses Rial, 
Schadel, Skillington, and Bloom. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Wolff read the minutes of the Pub
lications Committee meeting of March 14 
and moved that they be accepted.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Festenstein reported that the re
turns from the Campus Queen election of 
Tuesday had been counted but that the 
winner and her court would not be an
nounced.
OLD BUSINESS
A general all-school election will be 
held soon, and all organizations wishing 
to elect new officers are urged to get their 
petitions in.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Girls
According to Alpha Epsilon Phi 
iris, shes Dean of them all, 
krhich is just about the best way to 
describe that sparking, smooth, cam
pus personality, Gerry Diamond, 
otherwise known as President of 
Dorm Council, Treasurer of Mortar
Board, head of A. E. Phi, and Presi
dent of Forbes Hall.
Now finishing her fourth year in 
the Fine Arts Architectural Depart
ment, this New York miss admits 
that she feels like a permanent fix
ture here. Fact is, Gerry explain
ed, it gives me the strangest home
sick feeling to think of this coming 
September, when for the first time 
in years I wont have to pack my 
trunk and ship myself off to Car
negie. Despite the fact that she 
had terrific premonitions about 
Pittsburghs weather, Gerry says 
she has spent the happiest years of 
her life here. She added, Especial
ly in the Architectural Department, 
where were all like brothers and 
sisters.
Perhaps the only thing that can 
out-do the twinkle always lurking 
in Gerrys eyes is the diamond on 
that vulnerable finger. The man? 
Chuck Posner, of course, admits 
Gerry. The lucky fellow will be 
remembered as a former Beta Sig 
and member of Gerrys own depart
ment. As she explained, You can 
see architectures going to run in 
the family.
Running a close second to her en
gagement as the most exciting time 
in her life was Gerrys election to 
Mortar Board. In describing the 
initiation accompanying this honor,
YOU AND YOUR
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
' ESPECIALLY WELCOME
Gerry DiamondvGerry says it was hell week and 
heaven all at once.
Because this weeks outstanding 
co-ed believes that her chosen field 
and painting are practically insep
arable, you can often find her at
tired in blue jeans befitting the most 
ardent P and D ecstatically splash
ing colors onto a canvas. Her fav
orite hues? Theyre hot, Gerry 
exclaimed, bright reds and yellows, 
and I usually manage to put on too 
many at once.
As for her pet peeveGerry grin
ned, Its spelling my name with a 
J, though, confidentially, I wrote 
it that way myself until last year 
when I discovered that it was a 
boys name.
Typifying her vivacious, exciting 
personality Gerry says she simply 
loves night clubs, shows and the
atres, while horseback riding helps 
her get rid of sojne of that excess 
energy. Having ridden since she 
was a small child Gerry has ex
hibited mounts in national horse 
shows and amidst her collection of 
keys from Carnegie she proudly dis
plays a blue ribbon her horse won 
once in a showing.
Completely American Girl in 
her every action, even to liking any 
food that will keep me thin, Gerry 
is a sporadic reader and an ardent 
knitter. Now counting the days un
til graduation and her subsequent 
entrance into the business world of 
Interior Decoration, A. E. Phis Dean 
is enjoying her last days here. De
clining to make a comment on her 
four years at Carnegie, because of 
inadequate words Gerry could 
only sigh, Just wonderful.
\
~tss+I
imOi WAR BONDSL
On the Campus
Assembly Movies
Walt Disney came to Carnegie to
day to give us a glimpse of South 
America through the eyes of the 
camera and through the fertile 
brains of his staff of cartoonists in a 
three reel film showing his travels 
through the lands to the south. The 
movie was interspersed with sketch
es by himself and his boys. A Dis
ney carton, The Grain That Made 
a Hemisphere was shown.
I. R. C.
The usual meeting of the Interna
tional Relations Club will be held 
today in room 104 M.M.C.C. at 4:00. 
Natcherly, Spring Carnival
Believe it or not its the big week
end. Since this is only the eight
eenth time weve told you in this 
issue you are probably bored by the 
news, but you wont be bored at 
Carnival. Rush for your tickets chil
dren!
Chapel
Next week, on Tuesday, March 
28, Alpha Epsilon Phi will bring to 
Carnegies Chapel one of the fore
most speakers and religious leaders 
in the nation. Rabbi Freehof of the 
Rodef Shalom Temple will address 
the student body on Civilian Day
dreaming in relation to the soldier 
viewpoint on the future.
Red Cross Drive Nets 
Ninety-Four Dollars
The Red Cross Drive at Carnegie 
Tech this year netted approximately 
ninety-four dollars, and, although 
this sum is less than last year, it 
is well enough considering the de
crease in this years enrollment from 
that of last year.
The drive was conducted last week 
with varous organizations on cam
pus soliciting the students. On Mon
day it was the M. M. C. C. Senate 
and the Household Economics Club; 
Tuesday Interfraternity Council; 
Wednesday, Dorm Council; Thurs
day, Mortar Board and the Cwens; 
and Friday the CWCA and the 
YMCA.
Orchids to those who contributed! 
Onions to the slackers!
tyanuliaA. <JlutujA.
Portrait Of A Walk 
MH To Forbes St.
The dead, brown leaves lindied 
merrily across the dirty snow of 
the quadrangle and a filthily cold 
wind devoured my clothing in a 
successful attempt to reduce the 
liquid portions of my anatomy to a 
solid state. I thankfully left my ex
posed position atop the steps leading 
to Machinery Hall and leisurely 
ambled, at thirty miles per hour, 
past the sunken gardens (known to 
the uninitiate as Engineering Hall). 
The black-gray ivy-covered walls 
of Industries Hall reached out and 
lacerated my eyeballs with their dis
mal colors; I saw, too, some backs, 
bent in melancholy over drab draw
ing sheets, suddenly become erect 
with an amazing vitality that clear
ly indicated the periods end. I 
stretched a rather lengthy pair of 
legs along the senior walk, anpl then 
stopped to contemplate the lonely 
senior fence. All the life that sum
mer brought to that dead but living 
thing of beaten wood, was gone, and 
now I saw it as it was. A fence 
where no fence was necessary, a 
fence that enclosed nothing, a fence 
that barred no one, an arrangement 
of square cut logs, just an extension 
of wolf row, or maybe an important 
part of Tech, some of the tradition, 
or the hokum if you like it that way.
Suddenly I felt unreasonably bois
terous and vaulted over the fence; 
I found myself in practically a new 
World, behind me was Tech, before 
me was a great plain of mud. Soft, 
gooey mud that creeps insidiously 
up your shoes like an ameoba at
tempting to make a meal of some 
unsuspecting protozoa. The mud 
stretched invitingly before me and 
I accepted its invitation, my long 
Continued On Page 5
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIAS MOST COMPLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Opposite Mellon Institute
MAyflower 7700
Have a Coke= Kom Er Bij, Amice!
(JOIN US, PAL)
...or how to get on ivith a Dutch flyer
Like the Join us, pal of the Dutch flyers training in the U. S., the 
Have a Coke of the American airman means Friendliness speaking. 
Just as it does in your home when offered from your own icebox. 
Across the Seven Seas, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes, 
has become the favorite greeting of the open-hearted.
BOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY iY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
?o

Coke = Coca-Cola
It* natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tions. Thats why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 21,1944
SPORTS
THE GRANDSTAND
By Marshall Nurenberg
ALL ABOUT AN ALL-STAR TEAM 
As we expected, the repercussions over our editorial about an all star 
intramural basketball team were non existant. However, we will manage 
to uncover a few facts about such an all star team which has already been 
organized and has been practicing regularly on its own initiative. Virtually 
all of the leagues outstanding players are on this team.
Obviously a game with the army such as was mentioned last week 
is now out of the question, but the possibility of a game with the varsity 
remains. Both the all star team and the varsity are very anxious to play 
the game; therefore, what is causing the delay? One of the members of 
the intramural board in answer to this question stated that the purpose 
of the board was to stage games in which many students could participate. 
Of course this is true, but a game such as we propose, although it might 
entail hard work on the part of the board, would provide good sports 
entertainment for many students and thus be worth the effort. Surely 
Max would be willing to allow his team to face an uncoached group of 
students in order to provide a little bit of sports activity on campus.
SWIMMING AND TRACK MEET 
One of the members of the Tartan has just asked me when the annual 
intramural swimming meet will take place. My only answer was that no 
such meet has as yet been scheduledand so far as we have been able *to 
find out, none will be. Why not? There is still a good third of the semester 
remaining, and not a single varsity or intramural sport has been scheduled 
except for the few remaining rifle postal matches.
In a previous issue of the Tartan The Grandstand suggested the 
possibility of an intramural swimming league. From what we understand, 
this suggestion was put before a few fraternities and their reaction was 
unfavorable. The whole matter was then dropped. If the organizations 
on campus do not want an intramural swimming league it should not be 
forced upon them, but that is no reason why a swimming meet could not 
be held; especially when such a meet is an annual sports event. This year 
more than ever before such school affairs are needed to help keep alive the 
smoldering Carnegie spirit. Needless to say, members of the swimming 
team who participated in varsity meets would have to be ineligible.
The same arguments presented in favor of a swimming meet could 
also be used in support of a track meet. As usual one of the members 
of the intramural board had a ready answer  and as usual it wasnt a very 
good one. The answer was that there were not enough boys in condition 
and that track required extensive training. Obviously a varsity track man 
must go through a period of extensive training, as must a varsity candidate 
for any other sport. Therefore, since all of the competing teams would be 
in the same physical condition, we see no logical reason why such a meet 
could not be staged sometime in April. The fellows on campus are not so 
weak from over-study that they cant run a few hundred yards without 
jailing into a dead faint.
THE DEAR DEPARTED 
When the army left Carnegie for parts unknown the Tartan sports 
staff was cut in halfthe entire army half. We of the civilian staff wish 
to take this opportunity to wish them the best of luck and to thank them 
for their untiring efforts to improve this section of the paper. Particularly 
do we wish to thank privates Irving Perlmutter and Bob Hopkins. Both 
boys willingly gave up their entire Sundaythe only day that the army 
had no classesto work on the sports page of this paper, sometimes even 
going without supper until very late at night. 0
GOODBYE BORED READERS 
Before concluding this droll epic of journalism I wish to welcome 
Seymour Corwyn to the position of sports editor of the Tartan. Sy takes 
over next week with the rest of the new staff and he can have the job and 
the late hours that go with it. Good luck, Syand to my dear world wide 
public my last word of advice is dont take too many pills in attempting 
to overcome your grief at my departure. As though you cared.
Sports Calendar
This blank space will be the sports cal
endar of the rest of the season unless the 
unexpected happens.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St HA. 0193
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
85 cents per person 
Flu Tax
Know Your Skibo Stars?
1. What is possible in the 
kneeling position in rifle on a ten 
bull target where the maximum 
of each bull is ten points?
2. How is the winner of a div
ing event decided?
3. Which ASTP basketball star 
scored the most points this sea
son on foul shots?
4. What team emerged victo
rious in the intramural basket
ball league?
5. Which ASTP basketball 
scrapper committed the most 
fouls this season?
6. In what year did Carnegie 
Tech win the Lambert Trophy, 
which is awarded to the outstand
ing eastern collegiate football 
team?
7. Who were known as the 
touchdown twins of Carnegie 
Tech?
8. What former grid star was 
recently killed in an air crash in 
Texas?
9. Who won the intramural 
football championship this sea
son?
10. What former grid star was 
recently decorated for bravery in 
England?
Changes In Team 
Handicapped Hannum
To the more casual observer, the 
1943-44 basketball season seems to 
have been a long and unsuccessful 
one; but to those who had inside 
information, it has not seemed as 
fruitless as it loked. The Carnegie 
Tartans were outclassed in all but 
three or four games due to their 
opponents height or experience.
At the start of the season Max 
Hannum depended primarily up
on seven boys: Jack Sherman,
Howard Levy, A1 Nelesen, Joe 
Kelly, Hugh Smith, John Shott, and 
Bud Hathaway. Only three of the 
above named players remained to 
complete the season. Hugh Smith 
was the first to leave because of 
graduation, but almost at the same 
time A1 Nelessen left the team be
cause of ineligibility. To take their 
places Max moved Hathaway and 
Shott to the first team and became 
more and more dependent upon 
Charles Duffett, Bill Scherb, and Mai 
Festenstein as substitutes. About 
this time Steve Korfonta and Elmer 
Kaelin, two promising forwards, 
were forced to leave the squad. In 
the middle of the season, Howdy 
Levy left for the Air Corps and 
Continued on Page 5
In a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUsenm 1288
Riflemen To Fire 
In National InterCollegiate Match
Getting set for a fitting climax t 
an already successful season, th 
rifle team is grooming itself for th 
all-important National Inter-Coll 
giate match to be fired off in th< 
next few weeks. Ranking second ir 
a recent competition embracing a 
of the Third Service Command, th 
Techites, along with the Universit; 
of Maryland, will compete with th 
top teams of the eight other servic 
commands in a national tournameni 
that will result in a trophy for thi 
winner and medals for the winning 
team members.
The match is something of a mara 
thon, consisting of four stages anc 
lasting for four weeks. A stage, fo 
this match, will be one prone targe 
and, on successive weeks, a pronej 
a sitting, a kneeling, and a standing 
target. Ten men will fire each week 
and the total score for these twenty 
targets will constitute the team 
score for that stage.
The squad has been operating Un
der a terrific handicap all season. 
All of last years lettermen, except 
a few who were in the advanced 
ROTC were gone, and even those 
few left several weeks ago. There
fore men with only two semesters 
of experience are now carrying the 
burden. Even with these difficulties 
the team has a record of ten vic
tories as against eight losses, mak
ing it the only athletic team on cam 
pus to average better than .500.
At one time there was a question 
as to whether it would be possible 
to keep the team going under these 
adverse conditions, but Sgt. Som 
mer, who coaches the team, and the 
military office both agreed to keep it 
as a foundation on which to build 
other teams equal to the crack 
squads of past years. According to 
Sgt. Sommer, it takes at least two 
years of practice for a man to be 
come really expert with his rifle. 
The Sarge is looking forward to 
the time when these men, who start
ed off so well, will have that much 
experience.
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COMES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Dr. Berl
Continued from Page 1 
Society for that year. Dr. Berl sets 
a precedent in being the only man 
to be awarded the fifty dollar Au
thors Book Prize which is being 
given for the first time this year for 
the best paper read by authors un
der thirty at either of the two an
nual conventions of the Society.
Dr. Berls discovery that the pe
culiar actions of the oxygen elec
trode are dependent upon the 
presence of hydrogen peroxide 
evolved from work with the reduc
tion of oxygen on activated carbon 
surfaces which he undertook for 
his doctoral thesis.
Both Dr. Berl and his father, Pro
fessor Ernst Berl, are a part of the 
great intellectual endowment which 
Kerr Hitler in his colossal ignorance 
has granted the United States. They 
came to this country from Austria 
in 1933. Dr. Berl enrolled as a fresh
man at Carnegie in that year, got 
his bachelors degree in 1937, his 
Masters Degree in 1939 at Harvard, 
and his Doctors Degree again at 
Carnegie in 1943. While enrolled as 
a student here he became a member 
of Alpha Phi Omega and Theta Xi 
fraternities. In 1943 Dr. Berl was 
made a member of the Carnegie 
Tech faculty and is at present teach
ing chemistry and continuing to 
exercise his talents in research on 
explosives and chemical warfare to 
further the war against Hitlera 
paradox because Dr. Berl actually 
is grateful to Schicklegruber for 
sending him to America.
On the Record
The program for the daily pro
gram recitals to be given in room 
157, Fine Arts, between 12:00 and 
1:00 is as follows:
Tuesday, March 21
El Salon Mexico.................Copland
Classical Symphony ........Prokofieff
Wednesday, March 22 
Thursday, March 23 
Friday, March 24 
Request programs.
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL 
MAKES
$3.00 per 
O Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATl&ntic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
New Postal Rates Go 
Into Effect March 26
Carnegie Tech students should 
take notice of the following changes 
in postal rates which will be effec
tive beginning March 26, 1944:
First-Class Mail for Local De
liveryThe rate on local letters is 
increased from two cents to three 
cents for each ounce or fraction, 
making it the same as the rate to 
out-of-town points.
Air MailThe rate on air mail for 
delivery within the United States 
is increased from six cents to eight 
cents for each ounce or fraction. The 
rate of six cents for each half-ounce 
or fraction will continue to apply to 
air mail sent to or by the armed 
forces of the United States over
seas served through army and navy 
post offices.
Students are urged to gather all 
essential information from the Post 
Office before the new postal rates 
go into effect.
Costume Ec.
Continued from Page 1 
proudly sports a red mane and tail; 
the other, an orange-coated horse 
has a tan mane and tail made from 
yarn, and button eyes.
Keeping these three company in 
the case is a blue-flowered bunny 
with a soft-looking pink ear that 
Madlynne Robbins made out of old 
pajama material; another horse, 
this one of decorative glazed chintz, 
made by Janet Cook; and in the up
per right, the only lamb in the as
semblage a small tan one with 
green ears and eyes to match.
All the animals will differ in form 
and detailone has floppy ears; 
bells or ribbons decorate others; 
eyes reflect individual ideasand 
represent well a gesture of a good
will creative problem in design for 
the sophomore, junior and senior 
club members.
Familiar Things
Continued from Page 3 
trek began. My shoes became sod
den, heavy blobs of clay, but to re
turn now would be even a greater 
ordeal than continuing. Meticulous
ly placing one foot before the other
I, unhappily now, continued making 
deep, unsightly holes in what had 
been an unbroken glassy two acres 
of brown velvet. I reached Forbes 
Street, turned and looked back upon 
Tech; I would return, and soon, I 
knew it. Then I went to lunch.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4610 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Red Cross Editorial 
Meets With Approval
March 10, 1944
Miss Louisa Saul 
The Carnegie Tartan 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh, 13, Pennsylvania 
My dear Miss Saul:
I have just finished reading the 
editorial Yours Is The Fight in 
the March 7th issue of the Carnegie 
Tartan. To my mind it is one of the 
finest Red Cross appeals I have ever 
read. It is short, powerful, accurate 
and complete, so that he who runs 
may read and he who reads can 
hardly fail to respond.
The initials signed to the edito
rial would indicate that perhaps you 
were the author. If so, I congratu
late you on this masterpiece you 
have produced and, in behalf of the 
millions of boys overseas to whose 
service the Red Cross is dedicated,
I thank you for it.
Sincerely yours,
Augustus K. Oliver, 
Chairman, Pittsburgh Chapter 
American Red Cross.
Basketball Team
Continued from Page 4 
Charlie Duffett moved up to the 
first team. The services of Ernie 
Lembersky were then called upon 
in the role of substitute. To end the 
list, Joe Kelly went to Yale under 
the V-12 program, with Bill Scherb 
taking over his spot, while Milt 
Friedman became an active sub. To 
end the season Max had Sherman 
and Hathaway at the guards, Shott 
at center, and Duffett, Scherb, and 
Lembersky alternating at forward.
Thus went the tale of the luck
less Tartans. The first game with 
Akron was to have been a practice 
session for the Tartans, but even the 
best laid plans of men often go 
astray. The Skibos were badly 
beaten. After the Akron game it 
was taken for granted that Case 
would have little difficulty in de
feating Carnegie, but the game 
proved to be a close one with the 
Case boys winning in the closing 
minutes of the final quarter. West
minster and Tech then met on the 
home floor, and the visitors walked 
away with an easy victory. But the 
game with Geneva on their floor 
proved to be very close with Geneva 
winning by the slim margin of two 
points. Kentucky and Pitt then had 
little trouble with the Tartans. But 
the next game, the one in which 
Penn State won by two points in 
the last few seconds, will always 
remain in the minds of those who 
attended the game. This game was 
followed by loses to W&J twice, 
West Virginia, Pitt and Westmin
ster. The Tartans then went ahead 
to defeat Case, which proved that 
they were more than a good match 
against teams of their class. The 
rest of the games were all defeats.
Although the season m'ay be con
sidered an unsuccessful one, the stu
dents of Carnegie Tech owe Max 
Hannum and his spunky Hoopsters 
a vote of gratitude for keeping alive 
the one thing that is lacking on the 
campus today  that old Carnegie 
fighting spirit.
Jlecuie Id4. Re Qcuf,
Of Course Its Spring 
Look At the Calendar
As the portals of La Belle Springe 
open forth to our view, we behold 
the sun shining with all its lustrous 
intensity; we behold the birds on 
high twitting and twatting like hell; 
we behold the terrific rises of tem
peratureboth Fahrenheit and Cen
tigrade; we behold the unhiberna
tion of the members of the Depart
ment of Drama who will once more 
break forth on the scene and pro
vide the campus with that tint of 
normalcy which has become so 
necessary in these times of strife.
For it is Spring, Spring, Beautiful 
Spring, and this Saturday cometh 
Carnival. It is the time for hilarity 
and meddy-makinklet bacchan
alian revelry fill the streets of Pitts
burgh. Let young souls be unfet
tered, and young minds unchained 
let the spirit flow clear. It is 
Spring, and the beauty of the world 
shines forth on Pittsburgh 13, Penna.
What are the cares of the world? 
What are the worries of our minds? 
These are nothing. For today the 
brook runs clear and fast; today the 
blade of grass takes pride in his 
height; today the robin chirps mer
rily away; today the world is smil
ing.
So leave us lift our heads on high, 
and shout to all mankind: It is 
Spring, and we are gay! Leave us 
ape the little fishes in the stream; 
leave us soar like the little birds 
up there; leave us be gay!
Sports Quiz Answers
Note: Watch out for answer to ques
tion 4, it is located in the spot for answer 
5.
1. No, its not 100. 94 is accepted 
as possible. This, however, cred
its several of our marksmen with 
doing the impossible.
2. Each dive is given a degree of 
difficulty rating which is multi
plied by the value of the dive, scor
ed on a basis of ten for a perfect 
dive. This year Emmerson of Tech 
received a first place in our meet 
with Case. He received ?? points.
3. Steve Gaza. He also led his 
team in field goals.
4. Sigma Alpha Epsilon with six 
wins to their credit against only one 
loss.
5. The honors are awarded to 
De Bortoli32; Gaza a close second.
6. 1938. That year the football 
team played at the sugar bowl. 
Them days will come again.
7. Condit and Muha.
8. Chang Dunn.
9. Kappa Sigma  nine wins 
against a single loss.
10. Pete Dobrusin England for 
distinguished service.
HOUSEHOLD GOODS 
FOR SALE
REASONABLE
Radio Set, Norge Refrigerator, 
Piano, Radio Clocks, Chaise 
Longue, Bird Bath.
455 Duquesne Drive, off Bower 
Hill Road, Mt. Lebanon 
Fleldbrook 9969

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANQThe dTatrtwejie plaid
Roosevelt Hotel is Scene of 
Annual Banquet on April 1
TUESDAY, MARCH 21, 1944
Engineers Have Many Souvenirs 
And Door Prizes For Distribution
Floor Show Arranged 
By Peg Lanagan 
For Stag Party
Have you been sure to reserve the 
evening of Saturday, April 1? Have 
you made preparations to have your 
mother-in-law come in and keep the 
little lady company? Surely you 
havent forgotten that the 2nd of 
April is Sunday and youll be able 
to sleep late?
Why am I ranting so? Why, of 
course, thats the night of the En
gineers Annual Banquet and you 
good men of Tech owe it to your
self to come and enjoy the festivities 
and to assure yourself of one of 
those grand prizes that are being 
offered.
The important thing to remember 
is to get your tickets as soon as pos
sible from any of the officers or so
cial committee members. And if 
these are not handy to you, Mr. McKelway, in room 255-C, Industries 
Hall, always has some on hand.
The price is $3.00 and anyone that 
has been to one of these banquets 
know that its impossible to get as 
much fun and food for this small 
sum anywhere in the county. So 
remember get your tickets imme
diately and come prepared for a 
tip-top evening.
Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity is an 
honorary fraternity which selects 
its members from those evening stu
dents who have taken an active part 
in all extra-curricular activities. 
The preliminary work of establish
ing the organization was under
taken during the 1925-26 school year 
when the need for such a fraternity 
became apparent to its founders. By 
1928 the work of founding the or
ganization became assured and a 
constitution was adopted.
The organization has always real
ized the importance of extra-curricular activities in school life, es
pecially evening school life, and has 
worked to stimulate any student in
terest and participation therein.
Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity has 
always taken a prominent part in 
the development of the projects on 
the campus, and it has pledged its 
support to the students activities 
building project which the Evening 
Student Council sponsors.
The activities of the fraternity are 
so arranged as not to conflict with 
any function which the Evening 
Student Council sponsors. Varied 
activities are presented to its mem
bers, and open dances are held at 
different times throughout the year.
Evening students honored by 
membership are selected from those 
students who have shown interest 
in school affairs and are pledged at 
tome campus function.
Things to Think About
(This is the eighth in a series of arti
cles discussing the decline of registration 
in the evening school).
One by one courses have been 
suspended from the curricular of 
Carnegie Tech since the Evening 
Fall Term of 1942. Suspension is 
used to describe the retrenchment 
as it is felt that as soon as condi
tions permit these courses will again 
be offered the students.
Arranging curriculum and sched
ules for an institution as large as 
Carnegie Tech is a big problem 
which calls for consideration of 
many questions. When one consid
ers the evening classes, additional 
conditions enter into the picture. 
The time students can come for 
classes is definitely limited and four 
hours is the most that can be crowd
ed into an evenings session.
With these two problems, suspen
sion of courses and arrangingand 
rearranging of schedules, facing 
Carnegie Tech, in conjunction with 
constantly dwindling enrollment, it 
is no wonder that many adjustments 
have had to be made in the past year 
or two.
A marked difference is noted in 
the corridors in the various build
ings these evenings. The halls seem 
to be deserted and a low ebb of ac
tivity is encountered everywhere. 
Some evenings one hardly meets a 
person. Contrast this condition to a 
few years ago when there was such 
a hustle and movement in these 
very halls. The desertion is quite 
impressive, the silence even hurts, 
and one is forced to admit that 
something serious has taken place. 
Yes, it has, and that something is 
the World War II.
Keeping the institution open for 
the students is a very praiseworthy 
action on the part of the adminis
tration. Although the same facili
ties which are used by the few at
tending classes could accommodate 
larger numbers the fact that the 
campus is being used is indication 
that there is still a future ahead of 
us. This should prompt us to ques
tionwhat are we, as individual 
evening students, doing to help the 
situation along? Have we aided by 
being cooperative, or hindered by 
registering complaints for condi
tions and situations which could not 
be avoided, or, on the omission side, 
failed to register complaints when 
these were justified. Let us make 
a survey and see what can be done 
to help.
Sigma Delta Phi Social
The members and friends of Sig
ma Delta Phi had a very enjoyable 
time at the theatre party held Sat
urday, March 11. The party attend
ed the presentation of Ladies in 
Waiting in the Little Theatre. This 
was followed by a light snack at the 
Enright Restaurant.
Pin-Up Girl Fanatic 
At Large On Campus
Members of several committees in 
the Evening School are trying to de
cide the latest course of junior van
dalism on the Tech campus. To some 
the following may seem funny 
but to the committee it is a disap
pointment and wasted work, and a 
perplexity of why childishness and 
thoughtlessness should roam ram
pant on a college campus.
The issue at point is the defacing, 
destroying or stealing of posters 
made by the evening students to ad
vertise their social functions. Those 
who know anything about putting 
over a successful social function are 
aware of the countless hours of 
work and planning required. It also 
takes a lot of publicity and what 
with all things in the chaotic state 
that they are, this seems quite a 
task. *
Recently the evening school has 
obtained an ambitious and forceful 
publicity staff with lots of ideas to
wards eye-appeal in advertising. 
There resulted among some of these 
ideas the posters with beautiful 
girls on them. This was done for 
both the Swimming party and the 
Engineers Banquet.
It took work and thought, which 
took lots of time plus gasoline ra
tions to get the posters made and 
posted. The matter of time was most 
important for it is the major item 
on the night school students list and 
something he has least of. If you 
dont believe it, try and be one for 
awhile.
Anyway, the net result of all this 
work and planning is that some 
Pin-up Girl Fanatic or college 
boy juvenile delinquent has it in 
his head that he should have the 
pictures to pin up. So what hap
pens? Pictures have been cut out of 
the posters, while other posters have 
disappeared entirely and with this 
goes a lot of planning and work.
Man to man, boy to boy, and one 
who likes pictures of beautiful 
women also, doesnt all this have the 
ear marks of a thoughtless teen-age 
lowdown trick?
If anyone wants the pictures so 
badly, the evening school students 
will gladly comply by giving up 
magazines with - identical pictures, 
or perhaps the guilty ones could 
wait until the advertised affair is
over.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor 
Joseph Rymar 
Photographer
George RifflePage edited by Evening School Students of Car negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Staff
Greetings Gate! 
Lets Circulate!
Greetings, Gate! Lets circulate! 
Yes, on the level, theres a great deal 
of circulating done latelyenough 
to inform all you eager readers that 
Louise Simpson, harmony student, 
has recovered from the flu and is 
looking  Oh  so petite!  Why 
shes attractive! Shes intelligent! 
Sheswell, maybe she uses Ponds 
Retta Callory wore a very becom
ing green bow in her hair and when 
complimented upon it, she replied, 
It brings out the Irish in me! Its 
my opinion (and Ill wager not only 
mine) she made a pretty Irish lass 
sitting at the piano in class. In case 
you are interested in securing a 
gorgeous mixture, all you have to do 
is follow this formula  take one 
Irish lass . . 
Gladys Bayer Elmer Decima Norma L. DeLillo Mary DeMaria Albert C. Flanders John Hundertmark Doris Kenneweg Thelma KitchenFred Vichich
William E. Kuskie Joseph E. Luncher S. W. Marcinizyn E. E. McDonald Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray Caroline Noll Dorothy Papa
*7Ae &dUa*i ZdUl
There has been a saying on the 
campus for many years that evening 
and part-time students only accumu
late but never graduate. However, 
at the thirty-seventh commence
ment held at Carnegie Music Hall, 
Sunday, November 2, 1943 out of a 
total of 35 engineering graduates 
who received the Bachelor of Sci
ence Degree no fewer than 17 were 
from the evening and part-time 
courses representing the total grad
uates in Civil Engineering, Metal
lurgical Engineering and Chemis
try, as well as half the total in 
Electrical and Mechanical Engineer
ing.
As for the recipients of the Mas
ters Degree in Engineering, out of 
a total of 14, 4 were from the even
ing and part-time courses.
The graduates whose names ap
pear on the honor lists of the sev
eral colleges have an average of B 
plus or above for the entire work of 
their course. Under this statement 
from the commencement program 
appeared only 4 names from the Col
lege of Engineering, and three of 
them were from the evening and 
part-time courses, the other was a 
Westinghouse Scholarship winner. 
This in itself spells a wonderful 
achievement, and thoroughly proves 
that the evening school here at Car
negie Tech can easily hold its own 
with any outstanding Engineering 
College in the world.
I bring these facts forward be
cause I have a personal feeling that 
there is a trend towards the curtail
ment of the evening school in one 
way or another. Certainly, with the 
above in mind, I cannot see how 
those in power can possibly allow 
this feeling of mine to materialize.
I suggest that all of you who have 
read this article kindly read the 
articles entitled, Things to Think 
About in this and in the remaining 
four issues of the Plaid.
BanqueteersTake Notice
Phi Nu Fraternity, at their last 
board meeting, decided to make the 
Engineers 29th annual banquet, the 
scene of their annual Spring stag 
party. All members will be con
tacted requesting them to send in 
their $3.00. Tables will be reserved 
for them, and a room will be in 
waiting so they can play their fav
orite passtime after the banquet.
If all the other evening organiza
tions would do likewise, this years 
banquet will certainly be a jubilant 
affair. - - ~ ~
