The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 15, February 1, 1983.
Center tries 
to improve
instruction
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The quality of teaching at CMU may 
soon see an improvement resulting from the 
institution of a Teaching Center on January 
1. Dr. Edwin Fenton, history professor and 
faculty member since 1954, has been named 
director of the center.
A teaching center, said Dr. Fenton, is 
designed to improve the quality of teaching, 
in 1975, the Danforth Foundation started 
these centers in Universities like Stanford 
and Harvard that like to compare 
selves to us... There are a half dozen ways of 
teaching in the University, but Im sure all 
could be improved.
Since the first of January, Fenton has 
interviewed all the deans, provosts, andI
 department heads in the university. In the 
next few weeks, Fenton plans to interview a 
cross-section of the faculty and at least one 
third of it by the end of February. "What we 
need is a consciousness raising. Nobody I 
know wants to teach badly. This center is an 
attempt to get at the problem.
Next week a questionnaire will be distributed to the students. The attempt is to 
get advice from the students and not just the 
I faculty on what is good and bad teaching, 
I lie commented.
Fenton hopes to implement helpful programs such as having a drama professor give 
peaking lessons to faculty members, relievi ing stress either through the counseling cen| ter or physical therapy, and video taping of a 
I professors performance in class. He also has
planned several seminars. Herb Simon is 
going to give a seminar on what informa
tion processing implies about how you 
teach and how to improve teaching in terms 
of what we know about cognition. 
Getting other instructors perspectives erf 
the problem is important to Fenton. There 
are several different ways to slice the situa
tion. What do you do with faculty members 
and what do you do with TAs? How do you 
deal with the different colleges? What 
responsibilities do you have to people who 
just joined the faculty, people on their way 
to tenure, and what responsibilities do you 
have to the old folks like me?
Broader education
University-wide core courses considered
I By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Provost Richard Van Horn has ordered a 
| commission headed by Dr. Edwin Fenton of 
f the History Department to consider the crea
tion of four undergraduate core courses 
I which, if instituted, would be required of all 
students pursuing degrees at CMU.
In a letter oudining the content of the 
| prospective courses, Van Horn mentioned
I In this issue
I Editorial
I New solution to an old problem .. page 2
I News
I Ree room to open soon....................page 6
I Social Security and financial aid .. page 6
Features
Finding out about Spirit..................page 7
VW in Pilam house......................page 11
^ntertainment
Dark Crystal review..................page 13
CMU Dr^ia'pept. events...........page!4
Sports
Cable future questionable............page 17
Basketball defense horrible..........page 17
Funnies.............................page 20
that the courses would give students across 
campus an idea of what is required of stu
dents pursuing disciplines different from 
their own and, at the same time, enrich their 
own lives. The Humanities would expose 
students to art and literature. Science and 
Technology would introduce them to the 
empirical world. Computing would give 
them a basic knowledge of computer opera
tion. Strategies of Writing would teach 
them basic writing skills.
Who will teach the courses hasnt even 
been discussed, comments Fenton. Thats 
a tough problem. Suppose you have a 
university-wide course and 1100 students, 
thats 44 sections. Thats a lot of sections. 
Dick (Van Horn) would like to see 40% erf 
these sections taught by faculty and the rest 
by well-trained grad students. The lecturing 
would all be done by distinguished faculty.
Dr. Fenton stressed that the proposal is in 
the idea stage and that it will probably 
undergo many changes before it is even con
sidered for implementation. We dont even 
know if were going to have the courses. 
Getting faculty members to teach in such 
courses is really a very serious problem. All 
of us would teach most erf the time out of our 
discipline. Im a historian. Id be doing lots 
erf things like painting and literature. Its
very difficult to get people to do that Its 
even more difficult to train grad students to 
do it well, because we (the faculty) are at least 
solid in one discipline.
Van Horns proposal expressed hope that 
the courses would unify CMU and dispel 
any infighting between the four colleges and 
promote a respect for other departments.
Fenton agrees that the courses could be an 
answer to University disunity. There is so
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL 
Tartan News Editor
Student senate is sponsoring a ~ferendum to raise the activities fee from $50 to $70 
per year. Voting will be held February 8 and
9 in the Skibo gray matter.
According to Mark Caine, treasurer of stu
dent senate, the last increase in the activities 
fee was three years ago. The fees, which have 
brought in about $250,000 per year, are dis
tributed by senate to campus organizations 
and activities.
Caine estimates that $280,000 will be be 
needed for next year, due to an increase in
much erf the feeling and its so strong. We 
had meetings with people from all four col
leges to talk about University-wide courses 
fear students. A couple erf people not in CIT 
MCS said the best thing you could do at 
Camegie-Mellon is to bum all those damn 
computers. Its the other way around too. 
Ive heard, Oh, those people in Fine Arts 
and H&SS have no intellectual qualities 
whatsoever. And this is just the faculty. Its a 
wild scene.
expenses and a greater number erf funded 
oiganizations. Rugby and lacrosse, for 
example, are now funded by Senate.
Caine would like senate to have an extra 
$15000 for unexpected expenses and to 
allow clubs to expand. Senate might con
sider subsidizing the computer accounts of 
organizations with the additional revenue.
The referendum will ask for a twenty dol
lar increase in the fee. Anything less will 
not meet our needs, said Caine. It should 
provide us with enough money for another 
three years, without another increase, he 
added.
Activities fee
Senate asks for increase
photo by Steve Winawer
clear that the faculty recognize research as 
being much more important to their careers 
than teaching. So if they have an extra hour 
to devote to their research or teaching, theyll 
pick research.
When the Teaching Center is established, 
funding will be sought outside the Univer
sity. Dick Cyert says when Im ready, hell 
go to a foundation to raise money with me, 
said Fenton, but until next year support is 
coming from hard money within the univer
sity and not soft money outside. Its a rela
tively small allocation of money 
considering the research budget at CMU is 
40 million dollars, but its something.
One barrier that Fenton has to overcome 
is the goals of the University. Threefourths erf the administrators began talking 
to me by saying that the reward system at 
CMU focuses cm research and entrepreneuial activities. At promotion time a person 
who is an excellent researcher and a poor 
teacher gets through, but an excellent 
teacher and a not very good researcher 
doesnt get through. That reward system is a 
fact of life at a research university. I dont 
think that fact is going to change. I think it 
is quite clear that we have lost people judged 
to be good teachers, because they havent 
done much research. I think it is also quite

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
New teaching center solves an old problem
For many years, teaching has been secon
dary to research in the priorities of this school. 
The professors who get tenure and respect 
from the administration are the ones who have 
earned large grants, had their work publicized 
and in other ways brought to CMU a good 
reputadon.
In feet if professors don't do enough 
research, they are denied tenure, no matter how 
good they are at teaching. For example, in the 
English department where the motto is pub
lish or perish, Professor Dave Walton was 
denied tenure, although he is considered one of 
the best in the department by his students. The 
Powers That Be in the English department 
decided that he wasnt publishing enough, 
though he recendy published a new book of 
short stories.
Meanwhile, since these people are so busy 
making names for themselves, inexperienced 
professors and graduate students have been 
handling most of the education. Many of these 
teachers have never been taught the skills erf 
education. They may know everything about 
physics or economics or engineering, but they 
dont know how to communicate to their 
students.
Because of this lack of ability in communica
tion, and an associated lack of awareness of 
other disciplines, many professors have been 
unnecessarily negative toward teaching in the 
past. Furthermore, this lack of interest contrib
utes to the low quality of education. When 
professors in CFA or H&SS say things like,
They should get rid of the damn computers 
and MCS/CIT professors express the opinion 
that H&SS and CFA students arent as intelli
gent as others, we have to wonder how much 
of an effort professors will really make toward 
teaching.
It is difficult to change attitudes, but it is 
possible to change the negative results of these 
attitudes and other conditions resulting in 
poor education.
The new education center, therefore, comes 
as a welcome change. The center will teach 
professors how to teach. The professors who 
are highly regarded in their areas will explain 
the basics to the others; Herb Simon in psy
chology will talk about information process
ing, for example. With luck, students will soon 
see an improvement in their $7500 education.
What really makes this idea work, however, 
is the fact that student input is being sought.
Who knows better than the students which 
professors can communicate with them? Who 
knows better which structures for classes work 
and which ones dont? And who is therefore 
best qualified to identify good and bad 
teaching?
The professors who the students indicate as 
good will be considered for instructing others 
at the center on their techniques. We dont 
think this is demeaning to the ones who arent 
named; all professors should seek to improve 
their teaching skills. If they dont, they do not 
deserve to be called professors.
Questionaires will be available this week for 
students to comment on their education. They 
ask students to identify the qualities their 
favorite professors have had, and the way their 
best classes were taught.
The idea of a teaching center has worked 
well at other schools. Many of the Ivy League 
schools have adopted these centers, and the 
consensus on their campuses is that the quality 
of their education has vasdy improved.
It is important for students to provide feed
back on this issue. The university is, for once, 
giving us a chance to help shape our educa
tion. Lets use this opportunity.
Nate objects to administration vote on Senate
By Nate Solano
Get my dinner from a Gar-bage Can.
Theres going to be some interesting legis
lation taking place at tonights Senate meet
ing. This concerns whether the Dean of 
IStudent Affairs will be permit
ted to retain a vote in Senate 
matters (at this time the Dean of 
Hi Student Affairs has all voting 
privileges of an activities-fee paying 
senator).
A major criticism of Senate has always 
been that the administration's representative 
had the right to vote in matters as a represen
tative of the student body, and the criticism 
is not unreasonable. However, a close work
ing relationship with those persons in the 
student affairs office and resulting friend
ships haw historically prevented Senate and 
myself from acting on this matter.
Last week an amendment to our constitu
tion was proposed which would remove the 
voting privilege from student affairs. This, I 
believe, was in reaction to the meeting of 
two weeks ago in which the student affairs 
vote against the phone-a-thon boycott was 
the difference between the motion being 
defeated and the motion being passed.
My position on this subject has always 
favored removing the student affairs vote; 
however, I did not previously believe that 
the Senate was prepared to take such action 
and I still have my doubts. I would appre
ciate it if you would discuss this matter with 
your senators (if you know who they are) 
and perhaps even show up at tonights
Senate meeting to express any views on the 
subject either during audience participation 
or during actual debate on the amendment.
I received another Saturday-moming let
ter this week:
Dear Nate,
How come Shaggy and Scooby-doo are 
always stoned? I mean just look at them, 
especially Shaggy. Theyre thin, paranoid, 
and ravenously hungry. Is this Hanna Barberas idea of a joke or what? 
signed;
Robert Devoy
Dear Rob,
I read somewhere that they have to be 
stoned to keep from killing Freddy.
And the letters continue:
*Fat chance
What is the future of arms control?
By Stuart Shapiro
How do you spell arms control? If the 
events erf the past few weeks are any indica
tion, you might seriously consider F-A-T 
OH-A-N-C-E. By calculation or ineptitude, 
[the Reagan Administration is 
j making great strides toward fosj tenng just that opinion.
The Reagan approach to 
arms control ap>pears to be no real ap>p>raach 
at all Sail obsessed with the so-called zerooption, the President seems to be convinced 
that it constitutes a sufficient nuclear arms 
control effort The result is an apparent lack 
of effort to reach some kind of realistic arms 
control agreement with the Soviet Union.
Just about everyone was mollified when 
Rpagan first proposed the zero-option plan. 
It seemed to signal that the Administration 
was actually serious about arms control, 
much to everyone's relief. It provided at least 
a semi-reasonable starting pint for 
negouauons
It has now become clear, however, that 
the *ro-option is not merely an initial offer 
hit is in fact the only offer the Admimstraoon is willing to make. No one in his or her 
mind ever believed that the Soviets 
would accept the aro-option. (That implies
a few other things about the Reagan bunch, 
none of which havent been suspected for 
some time.) But it was at least a position 
from which bargaining could commence. 
Or so we all thought.
Not so the Reagan boys. For them, the 
zero-option is their one and only concession 
to those who are pleading for some serious 
attempt to negotiate nuclear arms reduc
tions. Its not a negotiating position, its a 
take it or leave it proposition. The Soviets 
arent buying. To be fair, wed do the same if 
the positions were reversed.
Which makes Reagan k Co. either pretty 
stupid or totally uninterested in equitable 
nuclear arms control. Either way, its more 
than a little frightening.
Especially since the evidence to date sug
gests that the latter may actually be the case. 
By all accounts, Eugene Rostov.- was sum
marily dismissed and Paul Nitze rep>rimanded because they had tried something 
radical. They hid actually dared to nego
tiate with the Soviet Union, The Reagan 
Administration found this lapse erf disdpline so intolerable that Rostov, was 
replaced with a hard-liner with dubious 
qualifications but erf proper ideological 
punty.
Hie refusal of the Administration to 
allow its arms control negotiators to nego
tiate implies one of two things. Either those 
within the Administration do not compre
hend what it means to negotiate or they are 
unwilling to do more than make a pretense 
of negotiating. As alarm spreads over Rea
gans inflexibility in an area where flexibil
ity is essential, the Administration may end 
up effectively destroying NATOs willing
ness to counter the massive Soviet arms 
build-up along with any hope of meaning
ful nuclear arms reductions.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and a 
columnist for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board 
Letters 10 the editor are opinions of mdwidual authors who are usually members of the University community, A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writers address and phone number for verification, Nanus will be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject my letter,
Dear Nate,
What do the letters I*T*C stand for that 
they keep using in reference to our new 
student union, IBM Technology Center or 
Increased Tuition Center?
signed,
A Concerned Student 
Dear Concerned Student 
It stands for Increased Tuition Commit
ment (Sorry, cheap yuk).
Ill be in the Senate office from 4-6 p.m. on 
Wednesday, and from 7-9 p.m. on Thurs
day. My home phone number is 687-6404. 
NEXT WEEK* How to drive sober.
Tfcfc
TheTartan.
Editor in Chief...............................Monica Gellio
Managing Editor...........................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager.............................Kathy Wasch
News Editor.............................Joanne Savinell
Features Editor.........................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor................... Susan Petrie
Sports Editor....................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor......................Steve Winawer
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager.............................  Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Art Director.............................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editors.......................Alice Alfonsi
Vince Guinto 
f IEd iitf* Croooll
Assistant Bun Mgr. ..................Tara Diegue
Assistant News Editors.................Chris Johnston
Pauline Wen
Asst Features Editor.....................Monica Safrin
Asst Em. Editor..............................John Cantine
idt Sports Editor ................................................ Rk Medrow
Asi Photo Editor ...........................Jean Siegel
iodt Production Mgr...........  ..........Peter Bain
Production Staff: Doug Blair, Susan Bossi. 
Margaret Eissler, Esther Filderman, Andrew 
Ghali.
Copyright  1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves (he right to withhold from publication an? 
copy it deems unfit few publication. Editorial 
SJcibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenky Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213- 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
AH rights

---------------------------------------------------

m 
February 1, 1983The TartanPage 3
Allison criticizes new 
"surrogate parents"
By Orpheus Allison
After the uproar of last semester concern
ing the future of computing here at 
Camegie-Mellon University, many of us 
thought that the university had clearly 
| stated its intentions. However, 
jwe are wrong. In the February 
issue of Pittsburgh Magazine 
I there appears the following 
quote:
Cyert and others also expect the 
machines influence to extend 
beyond the classroom; the stu
dent of the future will come to 
rely on it as a combination 
tutor, surrogate parent and elec
tronic genie.
This is a tremendous blow to the students 
who have fought to have the university 
explain its decisions to us. However, once 
again, the secret workings of the university 
have worked to deny us, the students, infor
mation that we feel is rightly ours by citizen
ship at this university.
It is now clear that the university does not 
only intend to require students to purchase 
computers. The intent now appears to be to 
replace our natural parents with uncaring, 
inhumane machines. This should be cause 
for concern. Does this mean that the univer
sity considers our parents incapable of prop
erly rearing us? It certainly would be easier 
to teach mathematical decision making if 
our parents were computers.
Could Robotics be secretly working on an 
aim that will change our diapers? Does Pres
ident Cyert exist or is he a massive computer 
program that runs on TOPS-A? Per
haps all the administration people are just 
portions of the same program. And this may 
he why we no longer see any of theadminisLetters
us in our natural environment.
But seriously, Mr. President, do you real
ize what you are implying when you say 
Surrogate parent? Really, Mr. President, I 
realize that many of our citizens are not 
allowed to have pets due to health ordinan
ces. However, it is expected that by the time 
that a student enters college, he is to leave 
behind his dependence on his parents and 
start to explore the world without his par
ents help. Are you attempting to deem us, 
the citizens of Camegie-Mellon University, 
incapable erf functioning without our par
ents? Or are you trying to reinstitute in loco 
parentis policies?
Mr. President, I realize that you wish to 
put this university in the forefront of the 
university world of technology. However, 
you have insulted us, the students and citi
zens of the community, by saying that we are 
incapable of managing our lives without 
the artificial aid of a computer. I must ask 
you, Mr. President, have you crashed?
Orpheus Allison is a freshman in 
H&SS and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Being sick at school can be dangerous
By Catherine Stroud Vodrev
OK, who out there hasnt been deathly ill 
in the last two weeks? Let me see... one; two 
. . . looks like about seven hands out there. I 
dont think I know any of you, because prac^ tically everyone I know has been 
sick recendy.
Being sick at school is cer
tainly an eye-opening expe
rience. I had a few sore throats last year, but 
this was the first time I had ever been pre
pared to write my will while at school. My 
first desire was just to go home and be pam
pered; my second, a slightly more realistic 
one, was to drag myself over to Health Servi
ces in More wood.
Looking as ghastly as humanly possible 
was not difficult, the way I was feeling. I had 
assumed, foolishly, that this would elicit 
some sort of sympathetic response from the 
nurses. It did not.
Im really sick, I rasped. I can hardly 
talk. My throat feels like sandpaper, I feel 
light-headed, and nausea has been with me 
since dawn. Can you give me anything? 
Good morning, chirped the nurse.
The food isn 't that bad, Mr. Safier
Editor:
After digesting last weeks letter concern
ing poor food service quality, my thoughts 
were consumed by many half-sour
memories.
I can remember when I was just a silly 
high-schooler. I was raised inside a small 
suburban vacuum-society, as I assume 
many CMUers were. But my development 
wasnt normal. I was never hip to social 
concerns within the school. While all of my 
peers had reached maturity, they were able 
to effectively protest such burning issues as 
over-priced ski trips, and lack of sufficient 
parking space for their fathers car. I was left 
behind. And when students started to moan 
and groan about cafeteria inadequacies, I
kept quiet and munched happily, protected 
by my boyish innocence.
Nothing has changed. Im just a silly 
freshman in college now, and Im still not 
hip. The same socially concerned students 
by whom I was shadowed through high 
school tower over me once again. Until I can 
understand the ideals of adult life, I suppose 
I will continue to question them. The Tar
tan letter triggered off so many highschoolish thoughts. I am left wondering if 
Ill ever grow up.
The topic of institutionalized food and 
complaints which arise from it continually 
intrigue me. It seems to me that as long as 
there are students with plenty of money, 
there will always be students whining about
Sign misrepresented CMU
Editor:
I have a gripe I would like to bring to the 
attention of you and your readers regarding 
the CMU Pro-Life group and its activities. 
Apparently there was a pre-rally in down
town Pittsburgh on the eve of the Pro-Life 
demonstration which was to be held in 
Washington D.C. January 22. A friend of 
mine has told me that he saw a group of 
1 MU Pro-Lifers carrying signs that evening 
^ying CMU is Pro-Life at this smaller 
demonstration.
Now I support everyones right to assem
ble and have freedom of speech, but I vehe
mently oppose any group misrepresenting 
me as a member of the CMU community, 
low can anyone assume that a majority of 
lt universitys student body share their 
views on such a controversial and personal
issue? Or, I should ask, how dare they? Not 
only is this group try ing to force its personal 
morals and religious beliefs on others 
through a change in federal law, it is 
attempting to do a similar thing on a 
smaller scale on this campus.
When someone says CMU is Pro-Life I 
get extremely upset. I feel that I am a part of 
CMU. I am a student here, work here and 
live here, and I do not share the beliefs that 
this group expounds so assuredly as those 
which every individual should share. Their 
signs serve only to enhance the narrow
minded and dictatorial quality which, in 
view of their recent actions, seem to charac
terize the group.
Carolyn Speranza 
Art, sophomore
dining. Last weeks letter which attacked the 
food at Kiltie Cafe specifically, proved that 
CMU is no exception to this theoretical rule. 
After reading The Tartan, I laid awake quiv
ering in my bed, while visions of Veal Cor
don Bleu and Bemaise sauce cluttered my 
head.With three eating facilities at this school, I 
would imagine that any starving college 
student could scavenge up a meal which is 
not only partially tasty, but nutritious as 
well. Personally, I have never eaten such a
balanced diet in my life.The student who submitted last weeks
letter suggested that other students who 
shared his view might leave their dirty 
dishes on the table after meals in silent pro
test. What a growing experience it is to 
attend a university where civil disobedience 
performed by the right minds can bring 
about dramatic change. (Who can forget the 
Cookie Incident of 1982? What started as a 
peaceful tuition protest turned into an allout war when the crowd turned ugly and 
began to bombard Warner Hall with coo
kies. Soon, police were forced to interfere, 
spraying the crowd with milk.)
Granted, CMU is one of the more wellendowed schools in the country, and tuition 
rates are hardly cheap. Perhaps academic 
standards could be compromised in order 
that food quality be improved. A rough 
plan might include reserved seating in the 
campus cafeterias, and a lavish wine list for 
eligible students. However, chances are that 
students would complain about their seal
ing, and send the wine back to the kitchen. 
You just cant win. . .
Will I ever get hip? Boy, I sure hope not!
Bill Cravis
The doctor wont be in until 11:30. Would 
you like to come back then?
Ill be dead by then, I hissed. I am
sickl
So is everyone else, she commented. 
This was not comforting. She looked me up 
and down, nodded her head, and had me fill 
out a form.
Maybe I can get you some aspirin? she 
offered. I refrained from haughtily inform
ing her that I had my own aspirin, thank 
you, three bottles of it, all different. I fin
ished the form and limped back to my room 
to sleep til 11:30.
When I arrived at Health Services again, 
near noon, I had a throat culture taken, and 
the doctor gave me a little envelope full of 
penicillin tablets. I was ecstatic. I glared at 
the aspirin nurse on the way out, but she 
didnt seem to notice.
Its a pain in the butt being sick on your 
own. It seems that everyone else is either a) 
being sick right along with you, or b) they 
are too busy to be sick  hence, too busy to 
pay any attention to you! I guess I was 
spoiled w'hen I was younger though; being 
sick meant sleeping in our parents double 
bed with the electric blanket, watching tele
vision the whole day, and having Mother 
make us grilled c heese sandwiches and Coke 
for lunch. Those days are certainly over in 
college. Is that why my roommate gave me a 
funny look when I asked her to make me 
lunch the other day?
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in Creative Writing/English 
Literature, and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Student doesn't 
know about art
Editor
The anonymous author of a scurrilous 
letter (Tartan, January 25) urging a store
front games arcade rather than an art gallery 
for amateurs has miscalculated his marginal 
utilities. As another student remarked to me, 
those who argue for the greater usefulness erf 
video games compared to the making and 
enjoyment of art dont know. Games yield 
instant pleasure that vanishes in an instant; 
learning about art pays dividends for a 
lifetime.
Richard L. Schoenwald 
Professor of History

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 1,1963
Exam week disorganized, student says
Editor
The past is gone. Finals for the tall semes
ter of 82 are over, thank God. For many 
freshmen, they were a harrowing expe
rience, complicated by unexcusable disor
ganization on the part of CMUs 
administration.
On Saturday, December 11, a large per
centage erf freshmen, and the student popu
lation as a whole, awoke bright and early to 
take 8:30 final exams, cramped with knowl
edge and a bundle of suppressed nerves, we 
bravely approached food service for our 
final meal before the test. However, we were 
greeted instead by locked doors and cold 
snow. As fate would have it, no one in 
administration connected the idea that an 
8:30 Saturday morning final might cause 
people to want to eat before the regular 8:30 
opening of food service.
Hungry and cold, yet determined, we anx
iously walked into the campus buildings
where the finals were to be held. However, 
we were again victims of disorganization on 
the part of the administration. Several of the 
Dynamics and Equilibria exam rooms were 
locked at 8:30, forcing Professor Caretto and 
others to franticallly search for Security to 
open them. The doors were supposed to be 
unlocked at 7:30.
Delayed and hungry, the exam period 
finally began. Now, you might ask, what 
else could go wrong? Please, read on . .
Logical thought would have helped
Editor
As a second-semester freshman here at 
CMU, I had my first experience with the 
procedure for taking finals last semester. For 
a school with such a fine reputation, I find it 
hard to understand how the administration 
could subject the students to the thoughdess 
conditions I encountered just over a month 
ago.
After a hectic week of tying up loose ends 
(like 5-page papers) in all my classes, there 
was only one day available to prepare for my 
first final at 8:30 a.m. Saturday. Spending 
most of my day on Friday in E&S try ing to 
concentrate on study, I found myself outside 
Wean, waiting for the fire drill to end. How 
unique that I should consider study more 
important than a drill which could easily 
have been conducted 24 hours before.
Saturday morning was no better. With no 
food service available before the test, vend
ing machine foods and what could be 
scrounged out erf CARE package remnants 
were the only nutritional support available.
Finally arriving at the designated room 
only proved another obstacle: it was locked
Fiscal policy 
justifies actions
Editor
In regards to Miss Prattos letter 
competition:
It has and does state in the Student Senate 
Fiscal Policy that if an organization incurs 
any deficit, our Activities Fee is responsible 
to pay an amount of the deficit that is an 
equal percentage of the amount of that 
oiganizations budget paid by the Activities 
Fee. Since Scotch N Soda could have had an 
$800 deficit and is almost 100% funded, that 
seems to be sufficient reason for the Student 
Senates Finance Committee to be 
concerned.
Name withheld by request
More letters on pages21,22
and no one with the key was immediately 
available. They shouldnt have bothered to 
get it, either. Once inside, the room was like 
an oven and from what Ive been told, other 
rooms were just as bad if not worse, being 
without heat and with inadequate lighting.
Now understand, Im not trying to be 
unreasonable. I realize that finals is a time of 
tremendous stress, and the problems menti
oned above are not what I would term catas
trophic. However, at such a rime, litde
things tend to build disproportionately to 
their true significance, taking a real toll on 
their victims. All these things could have 
easily been avoided by just a little logical 
thought. Considering that that is basically 
what were here to leam, it might prove 
edifying to see a good example of it in 
action.
Sincerely 
Loretta Dorn 
Freshman, MCS
Room 1212 in Doherty and 7500 in Wean 
Hall were so cold that students had to wear 
their coats and gloves while taking the D&E 
final. Some rooms were so hot that beads of 
sweat poured down students faces. In addi
tion, 7500 Wean Hall was also dark due to 
electrical problems.
Yes, the morning of Dec. 11 did end and 
students finished their finals. However, the 
effects of administrative disorganization 
were far more devastating than just a 
hungry stomach, strained eyesight, and 
either chills or perspiration. Exam results 
were poor, to say the least, and consequently 
many students did not receive grades they 
justifiably would have earned under orderly 
circumstances.
I, in conjunction with my classmates, 
would like to thank the administration 
responsible for this ruckus. We tried our 
best all semester, only to fall victim to your 
disorganization. Please, lets get our act 
together for next semester. Dont let it 
happen again.
Terry Young 
Freshman, QT
Finance investigation
Scotch 7V Soda claims Senate unfair
Editor
As the former and current presidents of 
Scotch N Soda, we were asked to attend a 
meeting between Scotch N Soda and the 
Senate Finance Committee on January 27. 
The committee had called Scotch N Soda to 
discuss its computer usage, and because the 
Computation Center accounting policies 
are in the process of changing, neither 
Scotch N Soda nor the members erf the 
Finance Committee had complete informa
tion about the Computation Centers policy 
and the current status of Scotch N Sodas 
computer account. The board of Scotch N 
Soda was asked to return the following week 
to clarify the matter.
During that week, the board members 
contacted their current Accounts Adminis
trator, Chuck Augustine, and their former 
Accounts Administrator, David Wool
dridge, who was out of town. On the other 
hand, Laura Sabadell, and apparently the 
other members erf the committee, failed to do 
research about computer accounting so that 
they would be able to understand the infor
mation supplied by Computation Center 
and the Scotch N Soda computer users.
When it was announced at the meeting 
that David Wooldridge, the original
Accounts Administrator for Scotch N Soda, 
was out of town, and that the Computation 
Center has no complaint against Scotch N 
Sodas computer usage, it was clearly inap
propriate to continue the meeting. It was 
also inappropriate of Finance Chair Laura 
Sabadell to accuse Scotch N Soda of mis
managing its computing account since she 
confessed ignorance of computers and the 
Computation Centers accounting practices 
and policies. Furthermore, because as chair
man she allowed Andrew Stahl to continue 
making irrelevant and personal comments, 
she allowed those attending to be distracted 
from the purpose of the meeting.
Hie resulting committee recommenda
tions are therefore questionable and may be 
based on this irrelevant, rather than perti
nent, information.
Although Finance did not find any 
wrongdoings on Scotch N Sodas part, 
Finance placed Scotch N Soda into receiver
ship after threatening higher punishments, 
which implies that they felt their decision let 
Scotch N Soda off easy  even though 
Scotch N Soda did no wrong.
Putting Scotch N Soda into receivership 
means that a member of the Finance Com
mittee oversees the organizations board and 
must approve all its expenditures.
Obviously receivership hampers the run
ning of even routine affairs and jeopardizes 
the principle of student-run organizations. 
Considering the fact that the Senate is sup
posed to aid students in running our cam
pus, Finances actions are detrimental to 
that purpose.
If you feel Senate Finance Committee 
should be investigated, please sign the peti
tion below. Nate Solano (Student Govern
ment President) intends to present the 
petition to the Senate on Tuesday night. 
Your attendance at tonights Senate meet
ing, at 7 p.m. in the Wherret Room, would 
be appreciated. Thanks for your support.
Respectfully yours, 
Thomas Wood (79-80) 
Felicia Pratto (80-81) 
Gregg Bossier (81-82) 
Mark Levine (82-83) 
Scotch N Soda presidents
The petition reads:
Because objections have been raised con
cerning the propriety and conduct of the 
meeting of January 27 between Scotch N 
Soda and the Student Senate Finance Com
mittee, we, the undersigned, request the 
Senate and President of Student Govern
ment to investigate the conduct and out
come of the meeting.
phoph tbp
MCAT-LSAT'GMAT 
SAT DAT-GRE  CPA
Permanent 6enters open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPc^facilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
Opportunity to make up missed lessons.Voluminous nome-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field. 
Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG'* fLEX  NOB - NLE
Cad Days Eve* S Wfpkon'i;
* Essex House L12N
 Corners Center, N eg ley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS, SINCE 38661-2772
P
u
m
popular and bestselling 
titles
up co 80% off
emu bocKstcre
THESE

---------------------------------------------------

February 1,1983 The TartanPage 5
Information Session
DATE:
TIME:
PLACE:
I had six job offers last year, I picked 
Tandem because of the flexibility and the 
growth.
I have options here because the growth 
allows for a great deal of flexibility. I can work in one 
area, and if I want to make a contribution in another 
area later, Ill have the opportunity.
Today (October 19) Im leaving for a national 
conference. Its great to be able to grow in a field as 
well as in the company.
Do you remember Ajay? He graduated from Carnegie 
Mellon in November 1981, and now hes working as a 
Software Designer at Tandem.
Tandems unique. Not only in its work environment, 
but in its product line.
Tandem designs, develops, manufactures, markets and supports a unique 
computer system for the on-line transaction processing marketplace. Called 
the NonStop system, its innovative architecture virtually eliminates the risk of 
system failures and protects the 
customers data bases from damage 
caused by electronic malfunctions.
Tandem systems can be expanded 
modularly from a mid-size to a large-scale 
system, or extended into a distributed 
data processing network 
without hardware replace
ment or software conversion.
MS Computer Science 
Carnegie Mellon '81
February 10 
4:30 to 6:30 PM
Hall 
Room 108
RefreshmentsServed
Reagan slashes sociaI security
lems so far, and liked some erf the changes it 
has produced. We want to treat all students 
the same, he explained. Now we can. 
Of the 204 students currently receiving 
Social Security, 30.3% are freshmen. This 
means that many freshmen took the initia
tive to enroll in college by May 1, 1982, in 
order to continue receiving Social Security. 
The government is currendy spending 
$345,000 on Social Security benefits for 
CMU students.
According to Cathie, it is the sophomores, 
juniors and seniors who will have the most 
problems. He said the financial aid office 
tried to adjust in order to lessen the effects of 
the change. In October it was decided to 
change a number erf the financial aid pack
ages of the upperclassmen. Cyert was 
instrumental in doing it, stressed Cathie.
Concerning other happenings in the 
financial aid office, Cathie praised the revo
lutionary method erf using computers in the 
financial aid process. We are drastically 
going to change the process for aid, said 
Cathie. According to him, the process will 
be cheaper, faster and dramatic.
In the computerized process, paperwork 
continued on page 19
Future Computer Professionals
Epi_____ _ _ _lariaem
Ceene -m mm mMSmGraduation
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Social Security was one of the many pro
grams cut last year by President Reagans 
Economic Recovery Act. Many CMU stu
dents were affected by this change, some 
losing total eligibility; others will see their 
benefits cut continually over the next two 
years.
To be eligible for the program, one must 
be 18 to 20 years old and have enrolled in 
college by May 1,1982. Last summer, benef
its weie cut from twelve months to eight 
months a year. A 25% reduction also went 
into effect. Next year, another 25% will be 
cut from the entitlement, with another 25% 
being taken the following year. In April or 
May, of 1985, Social Security for students 
will be terminated.
Walter Cathie, associate vice president of 
financial resources at CMU, can understand 
the governments logic in doing away with 
student benefits. According to the govern
ment, many students did not need the addi
tional income from Social Security; for the 
others the change caused a great deal of 
financial difficulties.
Cathie has not noticed any major probIf our interview schedule is full, send your 
resume to Penny Conroy, Tandem 
Computers, Inc., 19333 Vallco Parkway, 
Cupertim), California 95014.
An equal opportunity employer
--------------v-------------------------------------
TANDEMNonStop Computing Systems

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 1,1983
Rec room to open next week
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Staffwriter
After years of planning, the administra
tion has announced completion of the fifth 
and final Margaret Morrison storefront. 
Tony Martin, Director of Housing, 
announced last week that a recreation room, 
similar to the recreation room in Morewood 
Gardens, will open next week.
At the very least, Martin said, We will 
have attendents there. But we hope to do 
much more. Were choosing to experiment, 
make it more creative and challenging.
The storefront will be open from 5 p.m. to 
1 a.m. seven days a week. Cafe style tables 
and chairs, two ping pong tables and a foosball game have already been installed, but 
ideas for using the space go far beyond that. 
With seating for sixty people, Martin hopes 
to make the Margaret Morrison storefront 
rec room a Hill dorm counterpart to the 
Morewood rec room.
That includes making the rec room avail
able for the cabaret-style performances that 
have been so popular at Morewood. Draw
ing from a pool of student volunteers, 
Rhonda Malone from housing coordinates 
the acts. Housing also provides refresh
ments. The storefront has a three piece mod
ular stage; lighting and sound are imported 
from audio-visual when necessary.
Other plans include holding informal, 
one day tournaments in backgammon, 
Monopoly, bridge and other table games. 
Usually, a small entrance fee will be charged 
that will become prize money. Martin also 
hopes to hold film festivals and lectures in 
the storefront A schedule of events for Feb
ruary should be available in two weeks, Mar
tin said.
Responding to interest shown in an inter
disciplinary art gallery, Martin said that one
wall will be available for any student who 
wants to use it. The display space will be 
defined by a dark, four foot stripe on the grey 
wall. While a gallery is not a major pur
pose of the room, Martin said, We will 
work out some way to hang paintings, for 
example and also publicize who is 
showing.
First built in 1979, the Margaret Morrison 
storefronts are just now nearing 
completion.
According to Oscar Mayer, Director of 
Auxiliary Services, part of the problem cen
tered around dty zoning laws. With that 
problem negotiated away, uses for four 
storefronts were decided upon a year ago, 
but the fifth space, now the rec room, was 
held in limbo pending decisions on what to 
do about Forbes Gallery and Donner 
Lounge.
Prompted by a need for rec room space for 
Hill dorm residents, the administration 
originally chose Donner and planned exten
sive renovation. But, Mayer said, bids on 
the job about tripled the $50,000 we had 
budgeted for the project, so we had to settle 
for painting and refurnishing instead.
Mayer continued, Before last summer, 
Forbes Street Gallery was in a bad state of 
disrepair. This past summer the floor was 
strengthened and refinished, it was painted 
and broken windows replaced. This left us 
with an empty storefront and an unfilled 
need for a rec room.
Both Mayer and Martin believe the store
front rec room will benefit the entire cam
pus. Martin stressed that the room is not 
meant for private groups, but for any stu
dent to use. He said, We are very excited 
about possibilities for the rec room and we 
have a lot of ideas for it Ultimately, it will be 
the students who make it work.
photo by Christopher Johnston 
The grand opening for the Margaret Morrison storefronts will be on February 7.
New gym a possibility
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
A university committee responsible for 
planning the new gym has interviewed 
eight architectural firms and is discussing 
possible sites for its location.
The possibility of building a new gym at 
CMU has been discussed by the committee 
for the last six months. The idea has been 
around for a long time with pressure com
ing from many different groups on campus, 
including the admissions office, the finan
cial aid office and the students.
According to James Banner, director of 
athletic services and chairman of the com
mittee, the decision to build and raise funds 
for the gym will be finalized after a feasibil
ity study has been completed and approved.
So far three of the eight architectural firms 
have been asked to return for a second pres
entation. Of those three, one firm will be 
chosen to complete the feasibility study.
Four possible sites have been discussed for 
the new gym. The most promising appears 
to be under the present stadium site. The 
builders would excavate under the stadium, 
making Tech field the roof of the gym. 
Another possibility is to construct next to 
the tennis courts, with the Cut serving as the 
roof of the gym. The Morewood Gardens 
parking lot is another possiblity, but not 
strongly recommended, since it is too far 
from the center of campus. The IM fields 
have also been considered.
Besides expanding the facilities, the staff 
and faculty wish list includes a fifty-meter 
pool; action centers for fencing, gymnas
tics and martial arts; and a place to hold 
graduation, convocations and concerts.
If the new gym is built, the old gym will 
be turned over to another part of the univer
sity. There is a chance that the gym will be 
given to the College of Fine Arts, specifically 
the Drama Department.
ASSISTANT TO THE TREASURER 
OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT
tr isomspv eus bAlANCE vussev of All 
csSaes FuNdEd kfFaS myaemnSv
,r ishnfev en eus gfsavbfsf eunvs
ORqAN iZATIONS which MiqhT AppEAR TO 
bE fAciNq uSaSmad difficuliiEs.
You dON'T NEEd A busiNESS bAckqROUNd 
you will bE TAuqkr EVERyrhiNq you NEEd en kNow
l..gduT wki CzzMdTCugcU U U 
gIxicEC ae 6:00 p.M.
FEbRUARy 5, WhERRETT ROOM
AS
If you can't MAkE \1, lEAVE A MESSAqE 
Senate officE, x2115.
N ThE
FuNcfcd By Activities Fit

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Everything you always wanted to know about Spirit
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
This campus is not that big; in compari
son to the city-sized institution down the 
street, the Tartan plaid would prove to be a 
mere morsel for even a finicky Panther. One 
would think, consequently, that by sopho
more, junior, and most certainly by senior 
year, most CMU students would be quite
to graduation, chances are you may not 
know anything about Spirit at all.
There is Spirit House and there is Spirit 
Organization. The organization, which is 
unique to CMU, was originated by Keith J. 
McDonald, who is now the assistant director 
of CMAP (Camegie-Mellon Action Project, 
which complex is located on the fourth floor 
of Margaret Morrison and organizes a sixPM
Wim
IwMm WmmA
MARC JAMESphoto by Steve Winawer
Carrier attends to art in advertising, rhetoric
beating the system again
tests, statements, and general grumblings. 
Minority students felt excluded from the 
upheavals where they could address an 
issue, furthered the senior mechanical 
engineer.
Spirit is an organizaiton which by no 
means has been another liberal product of 
that turbulent decade; quite to the contrary, 
the organization and its members have per
petuated the spirit of Spirit out of a need for 
minority students to be recognized, by them
selves and others, on a predominantly white 
campus. This is basically what Spirit is all 
about.
Spirit is unlike other campus organiza
tions in that the goal is conceptual; whe
reas the goal of this newspaper, for example, 
is concrete  to produce a weekly issue. As 
Spirits coordinator pointed out, its a cul
ture shock to come here, after leaving a 
largely one-race neighborhood. Thats why 
Spirit has no real goal; Spirit offers, as James 
repeatedly stated, a minority oudet for 
what he says the university claims are 230 or 
so blacks at CMU.
Most blacks on campus feel that they are 
members, says James, who was elected 
Spirits coordinator by fellow Spirit 
members last April and will hold this posi
tion through this April. The coordinators 
words almost exactly echoed those of the 
manager of Spirit House, Eric Brooks. Just 
about every black on campus is in the Spirit 
Organization, said the House manager, a 
junior electrical engineer.
Spirit House was traditionally under the 
rules of Spirit, according to James. Four or 
five years ago the supervision of the house 
was transferred from the organization to a 
residing house manager. According to 
James, its more efficient to have the house 
as a separate entity; we have committee meet
ings there. In addition to meetings, the
interests of artists. Third, there is art as 
problem-solving which deals with the 
logic or art history and depends on an 
artists view of art history. As an example, 
Carrier said that Chagalls problems were 
solved by contemporary artists in their own 
work.
Recognized artists following the first and 
third styles are few, Carrier said; on the other 
hand, those who follow the style of social 
expression are many. Everyone works with 
popular ideas in mind, Carrier said. He 
offered Katherine Porter as an example, 
showing slides of two distinctly different 
paintings she did  one in 1975 and one in 
1980. Carrier explained that todays stand
ards change quickly and that attitudes 
toward art are influenced by what critics 
write.
He explained taste as a cultural pro
duct, and that advertising leads to peoples 
believing that they need things such as 
"video games, pornographic films and the 
music erf Blondie. He elaborated on this 
continuad on page 9
acquainted with the various organizations, 
their purposes and goals, and even location 
of these organizations.
Not necessarily.
Although you upperclassmen may think 
you know everything there is to know about 
dear Tech and you think have a sufficient 
amount of spirit to catapult you effortlessly
By MAURA FARRELL
Tartan Staffwriter 
David Carrier, a professor of philosophy 
in H&SS, gave an interesting lecture entitled 
Art and Its Market last Tuesday. His view 
of the modem art world included three basic 
subjects: artists, art dealers and critics. He 
discussed the roles of these members of the 
art world in terms of marketing, advertising, 
sociology, and rhetoric.
Painters, Carrier said, are unalienated 
workers  who choose to be artists and decide 
how they will produce their own work. 
Painting, he said, is a system of production; 
however, since there is no such thing as mass 
production for painters, their production is 
inefficient, pre-industrial.
Thus art is a difficult profession and pain
ters must pursue other means erf financial 
support, such as teaching. This in turn leads 
to the training of more painters who will 
also turn to teaching to produce still more 
painters. In order to become successful, a 
painter must have a method of selling his 
work.
Alex is back
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter 
If youre ever going to print a file on the 
DECsystem-20, use EMACS as your text edi
tor or just want something to happen every 
time you login, read this column.
There is a file everyone who uses the 
TOPS-20s should have in their directory: 
LOGIN.CMD. If you already have one, ter
rific. Do you know whats in it?
Every time you login, the system automat
ically reads your LOGIN.CMD file. In the 
,  yu can set up your print defaults, 
efine your editor, check the B Board for new
week summer orientation program for pros
pective students).
The idea to house members of Spirit was 
conceived a year later because, at the time, 
there was no meeting place, explained 
Marc James, the present coordinator of 
Spirit organization. The late 1960s, as we all 
know, were punctuated almost daily by proArt dealers manipulate the market, Car
rier said. Paintings are expensive and hard 
to find; therefore, a middle man, or art 
dealer, is employed. The competition 
among dealers is stiff and there are few 
good dealers. The good dealers find good 
art and create markets for artists, which con
sists mainly of private collectors, because 
owning art is such a status symbol.
Carrier said that the alternative to such a 
market is a public one. Public patronage of 
art has a problem, though, because the pub
lic is not generally receptive to contempor
ary art.
Carrier provided three ways of looking at 
the contemporary art market. First, there is 
painting as a means of personal expres
sion, in which the painters work has what 
Carrier calls a brand name quality, or a 
specific style all its own. This style is recog
nizable and, like a products brand name, 
can determine the success of the painter if a 
critic discovers and appreciates that style.
Second, there is painting as social expres
sion; usually, the concerns expressed are
messages, anything and everything you 
could do at the Exec level. All you have to do 
is put in your LOGIN.CMD file the com
mand that youd type at the @-sign, and the 
system will do it for you.
Here are a few examples of handy lines to 
have in your LOGIN.CMD:
SET DEFAULT PRINT /PORTRAIT 
/UNIT:XEROX /NOTTFY:Y
If you have this line, with whatever print 
options you want, all you have to do when 
you want to print a file is just PRINT FILE.NAM, and all the switches in your
DEFAULT will be automatically applied. 
In the above case, if I typed PRINT TAR
TAN X9700, it would be printed on the 
Xerox, in Portrait, with my last name in 
large letters on the cover sheet Furthermore, 
when the file was copied to tape to be 
printed I would be notified (then I could 
DELETE TARTAN X9700), provided I 
was still logged-in.
DEFINE EDITOR: SYS:EMACS. EXE
With this line in your LOGIN.CMD, all 
you have to do to edit a file using EMACS is 
continued on page 8
house houses parties, which, as Brooks 
stressed, are open to everyone, even though 
they are subsidized by the members of the 
house. Thats one of the reasons we separ
ated the house from the organization. It 
would be insensitive to say, we want a 
party, when the members of the house 
might not want it, mentioned James.
Contrary to what people may assume, 
Spirit House is under the jurisdiction of 
campus housing; however, like the fraterni
ties, sororities, and other university-owned, 
non-dorm complexes, Spirit House must 
tend to the general cleanliness of the rooms 
and rely on Housing for structural prob
lems. Unlike other housing, incidentally, 
the rooms are huge  Brooks calls them 
prime prime singles, and the price is 
$1450 for the year, which is at least four 
hundred dollars less than the going rate for a 
prime single.
The Spirit member with the most senior
ity in the house is selected house manager. 
Spirit has a lottery similar to and around the 
same time as the Housing lottery. The time 
limit of boarding at the house for no more 
than two years was established primarily to 
ensure that members do not limit them
selves only to Spirit acquaintances and thus 
become dissociated from the campus com
munity. According to Brooks, who is affec
tionately dubbed HM, this is the first year 
they've had girls at the house, which simply 
meant allocating each of the two floors to a 
gender. Except for HM, who has a special 
room downstairs as a result of his position, 
the remaining eight members occupy the 
four singles and two doubles upstairs. There 
are two Centrex phones on each floor and 
one pay phone centrally located at the bot
tom of the stairs. Paying a phone bill with 
nine people, says Brooks, shaking his head
continued on page 9
Tutoring program 
will start on Feb. 7
The expanded tutoring program, spon
sored by Student Affairs and directed by the 
Counseling and Student Development Cen
ter, will begin Monday, February 7.
Walk-in sessions in physics, calculus, and 
chemistry will be held from 7 to 10 p.m., 
Monday through Thursday, at the follow
ing locations: Calculus: PH 125B 
Physics: PH 125C 
Chemistry: PH 125D 
Arrangement for personal tutoring in 
other subjects will also begin Monday, Feb
ruary 7. Arranged tutoring is free if sche
duled from 7 to 10 p.m., Monday through 
Thursday. Arranged tutonng outside these 
hours can be provided at a rate of $1 per 
hour. A referral service to other camp>us 
tutoring programs will be provided. 
Anyone interested in receiving personal 
tutoring should contact Amy Ciric in PH 
126A, from 7 to 10 p.m., Monday through 
Thursday, starting February 7.

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 8The TartanFebruary 1,1963
CA charismatic 
Sprayer meeting 
Uevery Friday 
f ? night at 8 p.m. 
wat Mellon j 
Y^lnftitute 
Q Bellefield Ave.
(Across from 
pi] Heinz Chapel) 
ra Oakland, Pa. 
^cil Rege for 
(jjjjt information;
Investment dub meets
Value Line rep discusses portfolio analysis
By LEE SHEPARD
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday, the Investment Club was 
hosted by Robert Pearlman, Vice President of 
Portfolio Management at Value Line, pub
lishers of the weekly investment guide, 
Value Line. Pearlman manages investment 
portfolios in excess of $200 million for 
clients of Value Line.
The topic of Perlmans talk was, Can 
pension funds beat the market? As a fund 
manager, Pearlman uses the Value Line rat
ings as a primary investment decision tool. 
These ratings are distributed to over 100,000 
subscribers worldwide. Value Line rates 
1,700 stocks (this universe comprises 
approximately 95% of all stocks traded on 
the major exchanges) with a timeliness 
ranking from 1 to 5,1 being the highest and 
5 the lowest.
The rankings are made weekly by compu
ter using a model that correlates historical 
market prices and earnings data for each 
company. The major criteria for rankings 
are: a non-parametric value position, which 
is a comparison of current prices and earn
ings with the past ten years; earnings 
momentum, the quarter to quarter change 
in earnings compared with all other stocks
GSO event set
This Friday, February 4, the CMU Gradu
ate Student Organization will present its 
annual spring party. For the first dme, a 
theme event, A Night in Casablanca, is 
being attempted. Music from the swing era 
will be provided by CMUs own George Gee 
and the Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra.
continued on page 12
in the Value Line universe; and an earinings 
surprise factor, which compares 
and actual earnings.
Value Line also develops a safety rank for 
each stock from 1 to 5, with 5 being 
riskiest and 1 the most conservative, 
ranking is based on how volatile the stock 
market price is and the relative financial 
position of the company.
Historical analysis shows that highly 
rated Value Line stocks as a group perform 
extremely well. Pearlman will only invest in 
stocks with a timeliness rating of 1 and a risk 
rating of no worse than 3.
When a stock in the portfolio" moves 
down in rank, from 1 to 2, he will replace 
this stock with a new #1 ranked stock. Other 
factors considered are forecasts of the econ
omy, the industry, and company earnings. 
As past perfDimance has indicated, this pen
sion fund : ad the Value Line ranking sys
tem has been able to outperform the market.
On Friday, January 21, the Investment 
Club purchased 100 shares of Warner Com
munications for $29 a share and wrote a 
February Call with a striking price of 30 for 
$1% per share. In other words, the club sold 
the right for somebody to buy the 100 shares 
back for $30 per share before February 19 for 
a premium (paid to the club) of $1.625 per 
share.
The advantage of this strategy is that the 
stock price can actually decline slighdy 
while still making money on the invest
ment. The only drawback is that if the price 
were to rise to well over $30 per share before 
February 19, a potential profit (opportunity 
cost) would be lost In any event, the option 
assures an annualized gain of over 50% 
unless the stock is sold at a loss.
SPECIAL
TECH ELECTRONICS
NewtachNien geri aw so lNvgt sdpbmodA
7TH YEAR ANNIVERSARY SALE
SALE STARTS FEBRUARY 11983. ENDS MARCH 11983
DISCOUNTS ON IN STOCK ITEMS ONLY 
35% OFF AU VECTOR PRODUCTS M STOCK 
30/. OFF All POMONA CABLES M STOCK 
sor. OFF ALL TUBES IN STOCK 
10% OFF ALL nOOESCM SERIES) IN STOCK 
107. OFF AU. TRANSISTORS (2N SERIES) IN STOCK
' DOLLAR DAYS " ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICES
REGULAR SALI 
PRICE PRICE 
SUS S 1.00 
$1.35 $1.00
20</CONT ACT ANY 3 /$100
OB 25 CONNECTOR HOODS 
BNC MALE CABLE CONNECTORS 
MINI DIP SWITCHES 
2,3,4,i5 CONTACT 
MOD GATOR CLIPS 
MM GATOR BOOTS
5/S1.25
/$150
5/$LOO
10/$100
ADDITIONAL SALE & CLOSE-OUT ITEMS
2 COND. SHIELDED CABLE 24AWG S/FT.
SOU 5V /6A POWER SUPPLY 2 LOT $45.00 
RAINBOW WRE
M COND. 40</FT.
20 COND. 45</FT.
30 COND. M/FT.
4104 4K RAMS $* 4116 UK RAMS $
* BRING IN ANY RECENT CATALOG ON CIRCULAR IN THE 
U.S.A. AND ME WILL HATCH THE ADVERTISED PRICE 
ON 4104'S AND 4116S. THIS OFFER WILL REMAIN IN 
EFFECT ONLY WHILE SUPPLIES LAST. QUANTITIES 
LIMITED. WE RESERVE THE RI6HT TO CANCEL THIS 
OFFER AT ANY TIME.
FREE m FLASHLIGHT WITH IATTERES WITH THE PURCHASE OF
$20.00 OR MORE A $2.00 VALUE , QUANT IT ES LIMITED 
SALE PRICES ONLY WWLE SUPPLES LAST 
NO REFUNDS,EXCHANGES/RAMCHECKS/OR REPAIRS 
MENTION YOU SAW THIS AD IN THE TARTAN AND RECEIVE A FREE GET
photo by Clarke V. Simmons
TOPS-20 offers cookies
continued from page 7
type ED FILE.NAM. In fact, if the FI of
FILE.NAM is a unique letter combination 
(that is, no other file in your directory begins 
with FI), all youd have to type is ED Fl(esc) 
and the system will give you the rest of the 
file name. The other nice thing about hav
ing EMACS defined as your editor is that the 
FORK is automatically kept when youre 
interrupted (like, after typing a con trol-C). If 
you want to go back into the same file you 
were in, all youd have to type is CON
TINUE, or even just type in ED and hit 
return. More on FORKS in the future.
COOKIE
This command in your LOGIN.CMD 
file will give you some smart-ass remark 
every time you login. At least youll start off 
with a smile or a bemused grimace.
BBOARD
If you want to read any BBoard every time 
you login, put this command in. If you 
havent set up a SWITCH.INI file for your 
BBoards yet, you might want to wait till 
next week. Or, you can include the BBoard 
switches in the LOGIN.CMD file.
IN DISK
How much space are you using? How 
continued on page 9
AIESEC meets: 
AIESEC elects
By MELANIE BERNHARDT
Tartan Staffwriter
The Camegie-Mellon chapter of AIESEC 
held elections for 1983 officers last Wednes
day. Because of the wide variety of areas in 
which this organization is involved, twelve 
officers are needed to keep it all running 
smoothly.
As their first duty, the officers held a gen
eral training seminar last Saturday to intro
duce new members to the different 
operations within AIESEC, ranging from 
public relations to information systems. 
The 1983 officers are: Susan Flickinger, 
continued on pdge 12
ySyevWina
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
wrthwrOh
THERCHER UAa iSyeniVvILB*L sHxRCu 1Vvenini2HR ,BNNLu V1WeWnynIxCNL sHxRCu y1yegynn
CMU BALLROOM 
DANCE CLUB
h,hpl tprTola veV&vn 2 
P.r5Pwh .oww 
0rO P.h .l5rsow 
hT6soPrbO I6rwTrO-K
Ih-rOOhp5 Yhwsb2h

---------------------------------------------------

February 1.1983Th TartanPag 9
Spirit tries to de-emphasize racial differences
continued from page 7
and chuckling, its a real hassle.
House meetings are held at least once a 
month where the phone bill is discussed 
(probably at great length), and any general 
problems are aired. Everyone at the house 
happens to be on the meal plan, but the 
manager mentioned that house members 
can get off contract to take advantage of the 
kitchen facilities, which, because fo a fire 
two years ago, have been refurbished.
Paul Kahn, a sophomore chemistry 
major, is finishing his second year at Spirit 
House. He advocates the two-year limit pol
icy: Its kind of weird [living at the house]; 
you dont get to associate with the whites, 
except in your classes. In that sense, it sort of 
limits you. I think it would be better to 
associate with other people. Im not really 
an outward person; Ill be sort of forced to 
meet other people.
As for the innovation of having women in 
the house, Paul felt that women helped the 
house structurally because they got on Eric 
to get things done  Erics done a lot since 
hes been here.
Now for the womens turn. Freshmen 
Shirrelle Anderson and Perette Brabham 
moved out of their respective dorms into 
Spirit House. They both labelled the change
as an experience. Both prefer the larger 
rooms at Spirit but are not sure about stay
ing there next year for the understandable 
reason that the opportunities to meet new 
people have been subsequently limited.
The mere availability of this organiza
tional housing may be more important than 
the rooms themselves. Living at Spirit 
House may not be suitable for all members, 
and belonging in the organization may not 
appeal to all minority members. James 
wanted to make clear that Spirit, like the 
Black Action Society at Pitt or any nation
wide black student union, tries to appeal to a 
wide audience in an attempt to steer away 
from the same one-sidedness which trig
gered the organization of Spirit. Although 
the coordinator arranges for black speakers 
from various groups to speak at CMU, such 
as the President of the Pittsburgh NAACP, 
James feels that Spirits objective is not to 
emphasize the difference of color but to 
strike a balance between black and white to 
de-accentuate the obviousness.
At the Activities Fair last year Spirit was 
selling t-shirts from the year before. James 
was there, at the booth, encouraging people 
to come over to look at the shirts and find 
out about Spirit. A lot of white students who 
didnt know what Spirit was about would
' 'vv
ERIC BROOKSphoto by Steve Winawer
come over to the booth and ask for a t-shirt. 
When they discovered that Spirit catered to 
the minorities, they would apologize, 
according to James. While relating the last 
part of the story, James was visibly disturbed
 for what?
Were all part of the support system. 
Spirit is a formal togetherness, says James. 
Maybe with a litde more togetherness we 
wouldnt feel obligated to apologize for our
that white students instinctively apologized color.
A critic's words are true when the art world agrees
continued from page 7
statement with a discussion of designer 
jeans, claiming that it is because of advertis
ing that people would rather wear tight 
expensive pants than cheaper, more com
fortable ones.  If there were no such thing as 
advertising, he said, we would find out 
what is genuinely preferred.
Carrier explained then that this concept 
of advertising pertains to the art market also. 
Art critics are advertisers because they influ
ence the attitudes of the art world. Today, a 
good painter is good because the established 
critics say he is good. An established critic is 
one who has gained agreement to his claims 
about art; in order to do this, he must also be 
a good rhetorician.
The established critic uses rhetoric to pro
duce and argue complex beliefs which 
become truth when the art world accepts 
them as truth. Carrier explained that paint
ings are metaphors; painters paint with the 
intention of changing how the audience sees 
things. The critics intention is for the 
audience to see things as the artist intended. 
This rhetoric is necessary, Carrier said, 
because it is through reading art journals 
that the audience comes to understand 
abstract painting.
Rhetoric, then, is a manipulative ser
vice to the art market. Carrier explained the
process in this manner the artist produces 
his painting, a critic makes statements about 
it and its value; the audience then makes the 
critics statements true by believing them
and acting upon them. Thus, art works 
become valuable because the critics say they 
are good. It is trust in aides and the social 
product erf taste which establish an artist.
Carriers lecture is part erf an art lecture 
series. Tonight, Don Harvey will speak in 
Wean Hall 7500, at 8:30. Petterson Simms 
will speak on February 22.
Learning about using COOKIE command
continued from page 8
much is available? If you have a lot of space 
allocated to your directory, you probably 
dont want this command in your 
LOGIN.CMD because itll run too slow and 
make your login procedure long. But if, like 
me, you live dangerously close to the edge of 
over-allocation, its not a bad check.
Any command you could type at the Exec 
can be placed in your LOGIN.CMD, these 
are just a few examples. Some commands
shouldnt be put in LOGIN.CMD, how
ever, for efficiencys sake. Declaring PCL 
routines for one example, commands that 
stick you in some program for another.
The LOGIN.CMD file is called a com
mand file or "take file because the system 
will read the commands in the file and exe
cute them when, in the case of 
LOGIN.CMD, you login, or when you type 
TAKE LOGIN.CMD. Any file can be a 
.CMD file, full of Exec commands that can
Go backwards in time with Tobias
be executed just by saying TAKE filename.CMD.
You can over-ride the defaults set-up by 
LOGIN.CMD just by specifying the 
switches you prefer. Defaults are just used 
when nothing else is specified.
There is one other file that is automati
cally read when you login, called 
COMAND.CMD. However it has some spe
cial characteristics that Ill get into next 
week. Also next week, the other files that you 
should have: EMACS.VARS, SWITCH.INI 
and MS.INIT.
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffivriicr
Many erf my introductions to my column 
have been rather irrelevant, but nobody 
seems to mind. So hows this for an irrele
vant introduction: Zsdfjowererwfds 
asdfghjkl qwertyuiop sdfsivcver. I hope the 
typesetter doesnt misspell that. Remember,
f before j except after q. Now on with 
the column.
10 (Count em, 10) YEARS AGO, Jan. 30, 
1973
CMU has recently become a member of 
the NCAA [National Collegiate Athletic 
Association]. This will not change the concontinued on page 11
COLLEGE MENWHY NOT CONSIDER THE PRIESTHOOD AS A CAREER?
During their college years, many young men are considering the possibility of 
becoming a Catholic priest. Why not obtain more information and guidance 
about this opportunity in your life?
A Priesthood Inquiry Day for college-age men is planned for FridaySaturday, February 18-19, 1983 at 8aint Paul Seminary in 
Pittsburgh, If you want to attend or obtain more information, please 
write:
Vocation Office, Diocese of Pittsburgh,
111 Boulevard of the Allies, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
or phone 456-3073.
Pregnant? 
And you didn't mean to be?
tH B LL 'LURBRcu 
cHdHLRCmBm RLC'k cBR 
Birthright BC SygegWS1
CLfC BRz
WANT TO INCREASE 
YOUR READING SPEED? 
Attend a 6-week speedreading oourae ($50 fee) 
sponsored by the CMU 
Counseling & Student 
Development Center. 
Mon-daya, 6:30-8:30 
p.m., January 31-March 
7. Register at 136 Baker 
Hall (phone 578-2932). 
Class limit of 30.

---------------------------------------------------

The CM-U Graduate Student Organization Presents*
A NIGHT IN CASABLANCA
WITH
GEE
AND THE
MAKEBELIEE 
BALLROOM 
ORCHESTRA
Friday Feb. 4th 
Skibo Ballroom 
9 PM
TICKETS AVAILABLE FROM YOUR GSO REPRESENTATIVE 
OR AT SKIBO DESK 
$2.00
$ 3.00 AT THE DOOR
7Mt
FUNDED BY GRADUATE ACTIVITIES FEE
JfC

---------------------------------------------------

February 1,1983The TartanPage 11
^ photo by Steve Winawer
Pledges of Pi Lamda Phi played a prank and parked a Bug in Pi Lams dining room.
NEED A 
TYPEWRITER?
PREGNANT? sBNm BCB 
Let's talk about your options.
.bPwrOhj 0VgyK qvgeyVyn 
ph-OoOsl Ph5PrO-& vWgeVqnS 
Wn1 LRR o*LRxLk THERCHER 
1egn Bada Yj gg Badaeg 'ada 
2PPt5
Students designed dresses for final examination
continued from pege 9
ference we are in or the teams that we play 
during the year. It will give outstanding 
athletes at CMU the opportunity to partici
pate in NCAA competition and receive 
national prominence. Haynes [the director
isespe> it will
encourage an athlete to consider CMU who 
also wants to work hard on academics. 
The HAL computer in the movie 2001 
was not that far ahead of its time. According 
to scientists reporting in the January Science 
Digest, we already have computers now 
with many of HALs capabilities, and it is 
not unlikely that by 2001 they may exceed
those abilities.
75 YEARS AGO; Jan. 29, You figure out 
what year yourself. You must know how to 
subtract, or you would never have been 
accepted to CMU. Maybe next time Ill give 
all the dates as differential equations, and 
youll really have to work to find them out 
"Last week witnessed the first chance the 
students of the day schools had to testify to 
the regard in which they hold Director 
Hamerschlag ...
Did they throw cookies at the administra
tion building?
No, much more interesting. "At 10:30 all 
classes were dismissed, on request of the 
Senior Class President of the Day School of 
Applied Science. All die students of the day 
schools assembled in the general assembly 
room to receive the Director. When Doctor 
Hamerschlag entered the room he was 
greeted with a noisy outburst of cheering, so
enthusiastic that it got beyond the control of 
cheer leader Parsons.
And now a word from the Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie School (the old womens col
lege which is now Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall, the building with the 
"enlightened statement about a womans 
place engraved in stone at the front). "The 
class in Technical Dressmaking is designing 
and making evening dresses for their final 
examination. The requirements are that 
they be made over a drop skirt and that they 
be suitable for evening wear.
Well, thats my column for today. Collect 
em all. Catch it again next week, same Tar
tan time, same Tartan channel. Au reuoir, 
Hasta lit vista, Sayanora, Bye-bye. Scram 
already. Cant you see the columns over? 
Sorry if I sound offensive, but its almost 
midnight and this column is due tomorrow. 
(Last Friday, readers time.)
bpr-rOowP.rOrOIn the age of information technology, a company 
whose sales of $1.7 billion annually and whose 
products and components extend from data acqui
sition and information processing through data 
communication to voice, video and graphic com
munication  is making original thinking a reality 
for their new graduates.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
March 2nd and 3rd
Electrical, Civil, Industrial and 
Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science Majors 
Make arrangements at the Placement Office.
3) HARRIS
An Equal Opportunity Employer. M/F/H/V
The Warner Hall weekly
VP Rogers "pulls it together"for theUniversity
By UNDA QUARRIE
Tartan Staffwritn
The feeling on the sixth floor of Warner 
Hall is one of upbeat organization; this feel
ing is especially apparent as one enters the 
outer office of Fred Rogers, Vice President in 
Charge of Business Affairs at CMU.
Rogers began by explaining that his 
objective is to provide support services for 
the two basic functions of the university 
education and research. This responsibility 
is a "challenge on three different planes: 
day to day interactions with the 
Rogers oversees; short term activities such as 
quarterly budget reviews with Deans and 
other Vice-Presidents; and long-term 
major negotiation projects. It all adds up 
to the problem of running the business 
aspects of a major university, which the V.P. 
calls "pulling it all together.
Id rather be at an interesting place try
ing to solve problems than be at a dull place 
with no problems to solve, he says. The 
rapid changes and extraordinary research he 
sees excite him. Rogers interest has an 
impact on the university environment at 
every level; he brings a consistent perspective 
across C-MUs operation.
Rogers handles Management Controls, 
the Budget Office, Physical Plant and Oper
ations, Security, the Controllers Office
(includes Cashier, Payroll, Accounting), 
Federal Compliance, Personnel, the Energy 
Coordinator, and theTreasurq^jo^ce. And 
with it all, "part of my job is to represent the 
style of the presidentit's not that it all 
begins with me.
Rogers describes the administration as 
efficient; quite a lot is accomplished with a 
few people. One frustrating shortcoming of 
a lean organization is that there isnt much 
opportunity to concentrate cm student rela
tions. Rogers adds, "The administration 
and faculty to an extent have one perspective 
thats different from students, and it causes a 
lot of the problems that were discussing. 
Students have the perspective that they want 
things as good as possible fen* the time 
theyre here. The administration and faculty 
want the university to be as strong and as 
good as possible in the long run... certainly 
now, but also next year and the year after.
Rogers is frustrated by poor communica
tion with students. He sees no need for the 
"element of suspicion that exists in the 
relationship between students and 
administratorshed like to see improve
ment in the situation. This Vice President 
has been considering setting up office hours 
as a step to eradicate the communication
gaptalk to Int about 
onr typewriter 
rental program.
emu bookstore*
_________________________Ht AKf HAU..___________________
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
owPhpOoPr,h5 Pb oIbpPrbO 
rOs
a non-profit organization

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanFebruary 1,1983
SUPA shortens 3/2 program, changes student status
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwriler
The School of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA) will be offering a modified version
GSO plans party
continued from page 8
Plans also call for a casino, the proceeds 
from which are going to be contributed to a 
local girl, Kim Caterino, who is suffering 
from leukemia and is in desperate need of 
bone marrow transplant.
Rounding out the theme, gorgeous 
young ladies will sell corsages, cigars, and 
take Polaroid photographs. As usual there 
will be a cash bar and free beer, soda and 
snacks. Vice-president Jim Osbom and his 
activities committee have been working 
hand to make this a night to remember. All 
campus people who are of legal age are 
invited. The dancing will go from 9 p.m. 
until midnight. Admission is $2 in advance 
(available from GSO representatives or at 
the Skibo Information Desk) and $3 at the 
door. Please join in the fun and help the 
graduate community in its effort to help 
Kim Caterino.
of its 3/2 program to students this upcom
ing Fall Semester. While basically the same 
as the old program in most aspects, the new 
program will be open to more students and 
create a new student category.
The main idea behind the 3/2 Prograrii is 
to allow students to earn their B.S. and M.S. 
degrees in five instead of six years. The old 
program required that the student complete 
all of his department requirements by his 
junior year and then enroll as a graduate 
student in SUPA.
Previously the 3/2 Program was open 
mainly to Public Policy and Management 
students and to Engineering and Public Pol
icy students. This fall all Social Science 
undergraduates will have the opportunity to 
enroll in the 3/2 Program/
The most significant change in the 3/2 
Program is the change in the students sta
tus. Formerly the student would register as a 
graduate student at the end of his junior 
year. He would then pay graduate tuition 
rates and lose whatever remaining under5 to 6% of CMU grads are unemployed
By TINA ELLERBEE
Tartan Staffivritn
Unemployment for 1982 CMU graduates 
stands at about 5-6%, according to Dennis 
Ryan, director of Career Placement and 
Planning. Although only 80% of the class 
have reported their employment standings, 
Ryan doesnt expect the jobless rate to 
change as more reports come in.
This rate is up from an average in recent 
years of 2-3%. Ryan attributes the increase to 
the economic slump. He said that the basic
industries such as petroleum and chemicals 
are becoming very cautious, citing the 
example of a major company which regu
larly hires 15 CMU graduates yearly that has 
only hired 5 grads this year.
Although all the departments of the Uni
versity have about the same jobless rate, 
Ryan said that electrical engineers and app
lied math-computer science majors have 
more opportunities available to them. We 
are getting much activity from high technol
ogy and the service industries such as bank
ing and insurance, he stated.
graduate financial aid he had. Under the 
new provisions, the student will register as a 
SUPA undergraduate and as such pay 
undergraduate tuition and receive under
graduate financial aid. During the fifth year 
the student will be registered as a SUPA 
graduate student, pay graduate tuition and 
receive graduate financial aid.
A/ESEC offices
continued from page 8
President; Ron Meinen, Chief Corporate 
Fundraiser; Melanie Bernhardt, V.P. Mar
keting; Paula Glogowski, V.P. Public Rela
tions; Steve Thomas, V.P. Management 
Information Systems; Karen Lee, V.P. 
Human Resources; Tim Liu, V.P. Finance; 
Beth Dougherty, V.P. Reception; Dave 
Levy, Exchange Controller; Dave Arturo, 
V.P. Projects; Ted Dawson, Alumni; Brian 
Inman, V.P. Western Pennsylvania 
Development 
The next meeting will be held at 4:30 on 
Wednesday in Room 12, Skibo. There is also 
a marketing seminar on Saturday. Come to 
the meeting or stop by the office (Skibo 57) 
for more information.
Your
m
doesn't
surprise 
us...
At TRW its what we re all about.
We've created an environment 
encouraging people like you to 
define and go after your individual 
professional goals.
So when you work with us, 
you'll get a personalized approach 
to your technical growth. An 
approach that includes . . .
An informal atmosphere that 
encourages insightful thinking.
Co-workers who value the free 
interchange of ideas.
Responsive managers who look 
out for your advancement.
A broad spectrum of challenging 
projects to choose from --
Projects ranging from large data 
base software systems, 
communications spacecraft and 
alternative energy sources, to 
scientific satellites, high energy 
lasers and microelectronics.
And you'll appreciate the 
opportunity to see these 
projects to completion.
In the long run we think 
youll find that TRW offers 
an environment that brings out 
the uniqueness in you.
TRW will be on campus February 15
hiring graduates in most Engi
neering and Scientific disciplines 
at all degree levels.
See your Placement Office for 
more information.
College Relations
TRW Electronics and Defense
Bldg. R5/B196, Dept.
One Space Park 
Redondo Beach, CA 90278
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
clothing exhibit was part of the Forbes Gallery last week.
//
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
The long-awaited Dark Crystal came out 
just before Christmas, Jim Hensons present 
to the world. It was preceded by quite a bit of 
media hype  articles and TV shows telling
photo by Gene Yonish
Dark Crystal" too solemn
how difficult it was to create all 
of the magic and wondrous 
special effects that made the film 
magic and wondrous.
The hard work certainly paid off. 
Though some of The Dark Crystals effects 
are somewhat obvious, and some erf the 
characters are obviously plastic  in more 
than one sense  some of the scenes, partic
ularly of the teeming otherworldly forests, 
are nothing short of spectacular. As Walt 
Disneys Tron showed, however, a movie 
composed only of spectacular visual scenes 
soon becomes as exciting as a postcard from 
Yellowstone Park.
There seems to be a rule in the movie 
industry: any movie that has great special 
effects cant have a decent script to go with 
them. The plot of The DarkCrystal, besides 
jeing an old and well-used one, breaks 
down in a few places. When backed up 
against a cliff, for instance, the heroine 
prouts wings and floats to safety. And the 
iiero, Jen the gelfling, succeeds in his quest
by making some escapes that Indiana Jones 
wouldnt believe.
Besides a weak story line, the movie has 
litde or no characterization  its the inno
cent good guys against the powerful bad 
guys. But that doesnt matter. When you go 
to a movie like The Dark Crystal, you dont 
expect characterization. You dont expect a 
social message. You expect to have fun.
And that is The Dark Crystals fatal flaw. 
Anyone expecting the spontaneity and 
hilarity of The Muppet Movie is in for a 
shock. The Dark Crystal is a plodding, some
times almost solemn movie. Jen spends 
most of his time wandering around in the 
woods talking to himself. (Actually, the 
movie makers apparendy had some trouble 
making the mouth move realistically, so 
instead Jen thinks to himself.) Eventually 
the viewers attention wanders, and ones 
thoughts naturally turn to I wonder how 
much money they sank into this.
Nowhere is this deadly slowness more 
apparent than in the climax. Jen has a 
chance to save the world, and only five min
utes left to do it. He could do it right away, 
but where would be the suspense? Instead he 
stands around for four and a half minutes, 
until the villains have him surrounded, and 
continued on page 15
Bedroom Farce  British humor hits Pittsburgh
By GREGG BOSSLER
Tartan Managing Editor
The British have not only invaded Broad
way, with such recent hits as Cats and Ama
deus, butare faring well in Pittsburgh too. 
The Pittsburgh Playhouse is currently run
ning Alan Ayckbourns Bed. Jr room Farce, sporting a wel 1-kni t
ensemble of actors.
The play details the marital 
problems of Suzannah (Elizabeth Berkshire) 
and Trevor (Lou Malandra), and their 
effects on three other couples  Kate (Alison 
Driver) and Malcolm (James Prescott), Jan 
(Carrie Lund) and Nick (Robert Toperzer), 
and Delia (Doris Hackney) and Ernest (Wil
liam Beck).
Berkshire and Malandra portray the per
fectly matched couple  both neurotic. 
Berkshire chants a mantra throughout the 
play to convince herself shes normal, and 
Malandra continually destroys everything 
within his reach. Each present excellent stu
dies for character actors.
These two become the most interesting 
couple in the play, but Hackney and Beck 
become the most loved. As Trevors parents, 
they typify the ultimate in Victorian nor
mality. Whether eating pilchard fish in bed 
or making lovey talk, this couple exudes a 
rich cohesiveness that honesdy makes you 
think theyve lived together for thirty years. 
Lund and Toperzer handle some of the
more blatant humor in the show, bordering 
on slapstick, with the skill of a Laurel and 
Hardy. Toperzer exploits his characters 
bed-ridden condition as much as he can; 
even trying to pick up a book becomes a task 
of enormous hilarity. Lund performs well as 
the teams straight man, and is unmerciful 
in her abuse of Toperzers condition, per
forming the shtick unfaultingly.
The fourth couple, Driver and Prescott, is 
the weakest in the company. Most of the 
action seems to revolve around them, while 
they stand still. The only time they become 
alive are when one of the other actors is in 
the scene with them. Yet, this show still 
remains an interesting production because 
of the ensembles combined efforts.
The settings by Eileen Garrigan deserve 
special note for her fine attention to detail 
and realism. The costumes by Man M. 
Turner also added dimension to the show; 
they reflected the personality of each charac
ter truthfully, most noticeably in Suzannahs shocking purple gaucho outfit and 
Trevors loud green sweater.
Bedroom Farce runs now until February 
13, in the Craft Avenue Theater at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse Theatre Center. Perfor
mances are every Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday and Sunday evenings at 8 p.m. 
with matinees on Saturday and Sunday at 
2:30 p.m. For information call 621-4445.Perlman not rescheduled 
for PSO's 1982-83 series
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society 
announced recently that attempts to nego
tiate a return performance for violinist Itz
hak Perlman as part of this seasons 
subscription series have been unsuccessful. 
We do expect, however, to be able to bring 
Mr. Perlman back to Pittsburgh in future 
seasons, commented Marshall W. Turkin, 
vice president and managing director of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony. Perlman was to have 
performed with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
in November, but was forced to cancel his
appearance because of family illness.
Audience members who purchased single 
tickets for the Perlman performances in 
Symphony concerts of last Nov. 18, 19 and 
20 may exchange them at the Heinz Hall 
box office for any remaining Pittsburgh 
Symphony subscription concert this season, 
Pop>s concert, or Merrill Lynch Great Per
formers Series recital on a seat availability 
basis this season. No exchanges or ticket 
adjustments will be made after the close of 
the Symphony season May 20th.
A ",mishmash" painting and drawing show at Forbes
sages are clear.
Shelley Macks contorted and wildly 
colored figures question the world and the 
viewer. Great, ugly, and inquisitive heads 
with wide button eyes and crooked button 
teeth pull at their thin, stretched necks in 
order to observe the world outside the can
vas. Their short-limbed and amorphous 
bodies float in a weird atmosphere of lurid, 
churning color. This landscape of thickly 
painted, twisting shapes seems to be the fig
ures interpretation of what they see and 
question. The minds are active and the 
metaphysical landscape seems to respond to 
every moments new understanding.
Mack distilled her figures curiosity in the 
small relief painting of a single eye. 
Although it continues to question, the small 
blue iris observes thoughtfully, rather than 
eagerly, from the large, orange eyeball.
In Looking Inside Oneself, Mack 
shows us the world inside ourselves. Instead 
of straining to understand the world, the 
figure has pulled its neck and head inside 
the body to observe.
The artists canvasses of intense colors, 
broken reliefs, distorted figures and button 
skies will make you laugh and feel uncom
fortable at the same time.
Behind Jung All Yoos paintings of 
bland, uninviting stucco lie brightlycolored, geometric worlds populated by 
dancing and shifting shapes. Sometimes the
By SARAH RATCHYE
Tartan Staffwriter 
This week Forbes Gallery exhibits an 
eclectic collection of paintings and draw
ings by three artists, bhelley Mack, Cheryl 
Regan, and Jung Ah Yoo.
Drawing on her past, Cheryl 
Regan shows the viewer a satiri
cal and personal account of life 
in the American suburbs. The 
works combine snapshots, magazine cut
outs from the 1950s, and more expressive 
Mediums of crayon, paint, and ink. For 
^egan, the snapshot records a personal his
tory, uninhibited by aesthetic concerns or art 
history.
The cut-outs are associated with the era of 
suburban living and the plastic, throwaway, 
and get ahead culture prevalent there. 
The gestural color and line surrounding 
aud connecting the snapshots and cut-outs 
S^e the viewer a sense of suppressed ten
don. The color and line are the emotionally 
and visually attractive presence against 
which the photographs real-life images 
fight.
I The picture titled Then in the Back 
ai(l is a simple and powerful view of the 
tQtal break between the working, suburbanChers life on the job and life at home, 
he viewer is not assaulted by Regans gen( satire and elegant images. However, the 
Hork s subtle and thought-provoking mes
world is just beneath the wall and the shapes 
escape to dance across and animate the gray 
surface. The contrast between the walls neu
tral surface and the delightful fantasyland 
beyond draws the viewer toward the work. 
The viewer is being given a glimpse into a 
fairy tale world of mystery and unexpected 
events. The wall also protects the fantasy 
from indiscriminate observation.
In Majutsu the fantasy world has been
magnified and separated into four canvases. 
The radiating, folded, and pierced fo is 
that seem to be the characters are as elusive 
and mysterious as they were in the small 
worlds behind a wall.
No magnification or manipulation cm 
reveal the truth held inside Yoos wc K 
They wait for a true spirit, a good print tss, 
or a good prince to unlock their secrets.
photo by Gene Y<
Leigh Ritter, Lynda Bastone, Ava DeMarco, and Nannette Marasko, four CMU de 
majors, had their works shown at Forbes Gallery last week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartenFebruary 1,1983
New saxophonists challenge old legends of jazz
By K.J. SENIOR
Tmrton Staffu/nter
Charlie Parker, Cannonball Adderley, 
Benny Carter, Sonny Stitt, Stan Getz, John 
Coltrane, and Sonny Rollins  these men 
are the forefathers of the jazz saxophone.
Each is a legend in his own 
right. The prominent styles, 
artistry and experimentation erf 
these astounding saxophonists 
greatly influenced the direction erf jazz.
Grover Washington Jr., Phil Woods, 
Richie Cole, John Klemmer, Michael 
Brecker, and Weather Reports Wayne Shor
ter  these men are a contemporary group 
erf saxophonists who have contributed a 
great deal to jazz. Though these artists are 
not legendary, they soon will be. They are 
the link of players from the old legends to 
the new breed.
Grover Washington Jr. should be singled 
out as the most commercially successful sax
ophonist. He is also one of the first explorers 
of jazz-funk.
However, all of the new breed of jazz saxo
phonists are extraordinary. Solo artist David 
Sanborn, top studio musician Ernie Watts,
SPACE IS 
SURVIVAL
Spyro Gyras Jay Beckenstein, and solo and 
Jeff Lorber fusion artist Kenny Gorelick  
theyre the hottest players of the eighties.
These artists paint a picture with their 
music, and tell a story every time they blow 
their instruments. They preach a message of 
musical love in their live performances and 
albums, which is conveyed every time 
theyre heard. They become one with the 
saxophone.
Although all of them were doing well in 
the seventies, theyve all come to promi
nence in this decade. We can expect new 
directions and ideas to come from such fine 
performers. They each present a different 
appeal and approach to the saxophone, the 
most influendal instrument in jazz.
David Sanborn (alto sax) has several 
albums to his credit. As We Speak, his latest 
LP and biggest seller, is considered by most 
critics to be his best. The hit single "Love 
Will Come Someday is a successful attempt 
at combining jazz and pop idioms into a 
ballad. It incorporates a marvelous pop 
vocal arrangement embellished with jazzy 
saxophone fills.
Sanborn is known for his raspy sound 
and sweet vibrato, and he exhibits them at 
their best in this song. His ardent interpreta
tion of the melody is a work of art It is a 
painting of musical romance; a wonderful 
new direction in jazz. After a few minutes of 
attentive listening his style could easily be
recognized anywhere, a fact shared by all erf 
the new breed.
Ernie Watts (tenor, soprano sax) is the 
least known to the public, though he has 
two solo albums to his credit. The most 
recent LP, a huge success, was produced by
the master producer Quincy Jones. Most q 
his credits go to years erf intense studio worl; 
with other artists, so consequently he j, 
probably the wealthiest of the four. Watt, 
has worked with literally every established 
continued on pagm
Drama Department will 
show "R.U.R.," "Mikado
The CMU drama department will com
plete its season with productions of R. U. 
R. (Rossums Universal Robots), Feb. 24 to 
March 5, and The Mikado, April 14 to 30 
in Kresge Theatre on campus.
Gregory Lehane, former drama depart
ment faculty member, will direct R. U. R. 
by Czechoslovakian writer Karel Capek. 
Lehane most recendy directed Bom Yester
day for the Michigan Ensemble Theatre 
and The Doctors for NBC television.
A satire, R. U. R. looks at a fantasy 
world where robots manufactured to serve 
men ultimately begin to replace them. Their 
transformation from soulless slaves to 
rational beings and the warped thinking of 
their imprudent masters offer serious reflec
tion on mechanization and advanced 
technology.
Translated from the Czechoslovakian, 
R. U. R. became a classic erf the European 
theatre in the 1920s. The term robot grew
out of the Czechoslovakian word foi 
work, winning international currency 
a result erf the success erf the play.
Curtain is at 8 p.m., with matinees at 
p.m. on Feb. 26 and March 5.
Drama department head Mel Shapirc 
will direct The Mikado, involving sty 
dents from both the drama and musk 
departments. Edward Gorey, Tony Aware 
winning designer and author, will do stags 
and costume designs for the production.
The Mikado, long hailed as Gilbei 
and Sullivans most popular operetta, com 
bines lively lyrics and a well-knit plot satiriz 
ing English customs.
The CMU box office has arranged a join 
discount package arrangement with the 
Pittsburgh Savoyards who will produce Gil 
bert and Sullivans Pirates of Penzance, 
May 14-22 at Central Catholic High School
For more information, contact the CMl 
box office at 578-2407.
TERIMINALS
GDC
CRTSPRINTERS
e TELEVIDEO EPSONPORTABLES
DEC OKIDATAMODEMS
 ADDSe NEC SPINWRJTERCOUPLERS
 DECe DATASOUTH
e VISUAL TECH. DEC
e C ITOHe G.E.
PRINTERS
788-4800
We Specialize 
In Interfacing 
Peripherals To 
Computers
 GOME SEE THEM IN OUR SHOWROOM!GENERAL DATA CO., INC.5173 CAMPBELLS RUN ROAD 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15205
 international HaadQuartar 1060 E Elm St  Tucson Amona 85719  Prttaburgn 1-5 
1900 Wtghtman  Pittsburgh PA 15217 
521* 3056
SBHW
PROMO TING SPA CE 
DEVELOPMENT
20 to 50% OFF
On All Merchandise!
Including: Clogs, 
Boots, Purses, 
Shoes, Moccasins 
and Accessories.
gyV bBMNBRz o*LRxL 
SygeyiWW
b'LR TBmNu& gn&nn oa2a / S&nn a2a 
5BCxzBuf& gg&nn oa2a e S&nn a2a
OUT OF
The Great Age of Planetary Exploration is 
nearly over. There will be no U.S. spacecraft 
sending back photos of Hailey's Comet, or 
Mars, or Uranusor anywhere else*
Find out what we are doing to help.
Write to:

---------------------------------------------------

February 1,1983The TartanPage 15
aide to new jazz
azz artists paint colorful pictures with music
from page 14
 up-and-coming star, from Barbra Streid to Michael Jackson.
You can hear Watts soulful playing on 
album Look in Your Heart. His jazz 
ophone playing brings a great flavor to 
other styles of music he is constantly 
to play. Watts has been a significant 
to fusing jazz with rock, pop and R&B. 
jay Beckenstein (alto, soprano sax), theey
leader of Spyro Gyra, plays an essential part 
in paving the way for a new style of jazz 
called Jazz-Fusion. His group is some
times criticized for being too commercial. 
Though they are very successful commer
cially, their music is creative and innovative. 
The intriguing sound of Spyro Gyra is pro
pelled by the spirited and joyful playing of 
Beckenstein.
Beckensteins catchy and bouncy melorystal plot lost in woods
from page 13
he saves the world. Hes successful, of 
and everybody lives happily ever 
ter, even the people whove died. Mean:f the viewer is either stifling yawns, or 
ding the popcorn box to stay awake.
It was nice that Henson tried to break out 
go beyond his Muppet work. But the
urse,
hile
Muppet shows and movies had a contagious 
hilarity about them that The Dark Crystal 
lacks. When watching the Muppets, you 
knew that Hensons creative crew was hav
ing fun, and that fun shone through. That is 
the feeling that The Dark Crystal needs. The 
movie could really use a guest appearance 
by Alonzo the Boomerang Fish Juggler.
dies on Shaker Song, from their first 
album, is a classic, pioneering a new style of 
jazz which utilizes Latin, R&B, funk, and 
rock. He is also a well respected composer. 
His composing talents, as well as his fine sax 
playing, kept his group at the top.
Twenty-five year old Kenny Gorelick 
(tenor, soprano sax) is the baby erf bunch. 
This babys soprano sax performance on 
"Tierre Verde from Jeff Lorbers album Its 
a Fact is proclaimed a masterpiece. Critics 
and musicians everywhere confessed to the 
genius erf this performer.
Never has there been such an immaculate 
display of emotion equal to Gorelicks four 
minute sax solo on "Tierre Verde. In that 
tune, the mastery erf his saxophone playing 
portrays that four letter word  love  the
type of which is undefinable. All that could 
be said is: Listen to the record. Gorelick has 
impressed the world of jazz with his recent 
debut solo album and his immeasurable 
talents.
Whether experiencing these fascinating 
ardsts live or on record, it is a worthwhile 
event. For a guide to whatever mood youre 
in: David Sanborn is raspy and sweet, 
Ernie Watts "soulful and funky, Jay Beck
enstein spirited and joyful, and Kenny 
Gorelick is "intensely emotional.
These musicians are artists, their saxo
phones are brushes, their music is the paint 
and we are the canvas. Listen to than. Le
gends will remain a pe>tent force in jazz, but 
the new breed of jazz saxophonist is better 
than ever.
Columbia conducts contest
from the cast and crew of The Tartan, 
plus all your other friends 
[based on the screenplay by Pam Shugerman]
You can be one of three CMU students to 
win a Gandhi original soundtrack album or 
T-shirt, a momento of Richard Attenbo
roughs new epic motion picture which fol
lows the Mahatmas transformation from a 
simple Indian lawyer to one of the worlds 
greatest men of peace.
His goal was freedom for India. His stra
tegy was peace. His weapon was his 
humanity.
Identify the following peace leaders of the 
world to win the Gandhi movie soundtrack 
album or T-shirt The first three to submit 
correct entries to The Tartan office will win.
1. Who led the mass civil rights move
ment in the U.S. from the mid 1950s until 
his assasination in 1968? He won the 1964 
Nobel Peace Prize.
2. Who was the Roman Catholic nun 
who began the Missionaries of Charity and 
devoted her life to comforting Indias desti
tute and dying? She received the Nobel 
Peace Prize in 1979.
3. Who launched the Alliance for Pro
gress and the Peace Corps? He was the 
youngest man to be elected a U.S. president 
and was assasinated in 1963.
4. Who was the founder of Christianity? 
He preached: Whosoever shall smite thee 
on thy right cheek, turn to him the other 
also.
Be one of the first three to submit the 
correct answers to The Tartan office, Room 
50, Skibo basement, and win your free 
Gandhi movie soundtrack album or Tshirt, courtesy erf Columbia Pictures Indus
tries Inc.
lScFeusco 
technical directors
Get
G
pppXED
y
with the 1983 SPRING MUSICAL
ThheNws
February 5th 
Scotch n Soda office, 40-D Skibo 
12 noon
Produced by Scotch n Soda,the student drama club of Camegie-MellonFunded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Coffeehouse Presents
vV*r>. -ar
JOSH WHITE, JR.
Wednesday, February 2, 1983
8 p.m.
Skibo Ballroom
FREE
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Steve Winawer
5'HCfa
f %
uture CMU sports on cable looks questionable
.y RIC MEDROW
fortan Assistant Sports Editor
Lights, camera, action! The camera 
rjnis in on Sports Information Director 
ruce Gerson who is offering us an inside 
[limpse of the future.
I really think that its only the beginling, projects Gerson. Cable sports is the 
ng of the future.
Gerson refers to Warner Cables televising 
, CMU-John Carroll basketball game on 
luary 18 which has been aired seven times 
nee. It was the first time in CMU history
that a fall basketball game has been tele
vised, though, according to Gerson, it wont 
be the last.
Production went smoothly, Gerson 
assesses. There is definitely an interest in 
basketball around CMU. There are 101 
intramural basketball teams here. Which is 
the reason Gerson wonders why so few stu
dents show up at basketball games.
"Visuals can make or break a T. V. produc
tion. So, when the camera is following the 
ball and more than ten people are in the 
stands, it makes for a better product.
CMU Athletic Director Jim Banner feels 
that its a step forward not only for our 
basketball program but for our total athletic 
program as well.
Gerson, however, thinks that future 
appearances by CMU athletic teams on tele
vision could have even farther reaching 
effects for CMU as a whole. If Gerson is 
right, public exposure of athletics could 
help attract an academically better selection 
of applicants to CMU.
Gerson conjectures that it might not 
have a big effect on the surface, but subconciously public exposure helps a university 
in all areas:* Gerson continues, Academi
cally, CMU is a fine university, but we are 
not known as well as I would like us to be. 
sports on T.V. will help.
According to Evan Pattak, Public Rela
tions Manager for Warner Cable, "Weve 
nothing else in the works at the moment, 
but we were very pleased to be working with 
CMU.
So, dont be surprised if CMU becomes a 
prime time regular.
artans spell defense H-O-R-R-l-B-L-E
iy DOUG REINSTEIN
farton Staffuniter
Atrocious! Thats about the only word 
jt could describe the Tartan defense on 
[aturday as they dropped theiv 11 th in a row 
[nd 12th out of their last 1? to the Hiram
Teniers.
The team was clearly out hustled and out 
Muscled, especially down in the low post 
t-hcre the battle of the big men took place, 
re Tartans were set back by the 7th place 
Teniers 84-70. The Tartans remain in the 
sllar of the Presidents Athletic Conference 
Ind there isnt much light at the end of the 
jnnel.
Hirams junior center Alan Miller clearly 
lutplayed the freshman combination of 
Lichard Neff and George Debski. His 
Numerous rebounds and frequent short 
inge shots were the epitome of the Tartan 
liadequacies on defense. He outmaneuered his counterparts on frequent occasions 
B) pour in 10 first half points and wound up 
le game with 17.
Game high scorer Mark Shivers of Hiram 
jured in 30 points as the Terriers streaked 
ist the Tartans. Over haL of his points 
le off lay-ups and from scrapping underthe backboard. He shot over 75% from 
le floor. Shivers was also a key man in the 
perriers changing defense. He started out on 
le top of the 1-2-2 and then moved down 
)w as the Tartans moved inside.
Both teams came out of the gate quickly
as they tried to fast break against each other. 
Two early baskets by Tartans Peter Bennett 
and the Terriers Tom Pollack knotted the 
game at 10. That was the last time the Tar
tans would see a tie score all afternoon, and 
it was a long afternoon.
From that point on, the Terrier offense 
started to whittle away at the Tartan defense. 
They built up a 6 point lead twice late in the 
half but couldnt break that barrier. One of 
the turning points took place with 5:15 left 
in the half. After a timeout, Greg Gabriel cut 
the Terrier lead to 4.
On the following in bounds, the Tartans 
stole the ball and head manned it to Bennett 
who blew an uncontested lay-up at the other 
end. Instad of cutting the spread to 2 points, 
the Terriers ran off 14 points to the Tartan 4 
in the next 4 minutes. This surge set the 
Tartans back by 12 points, 42-30, with only 
1:18 remaining in the half.
The Tartans showed some signs of life in 
the closing seconds of the half. After a 
Camegie-Mellon timeout, the Tartans came 
out in a full court press. This led to 3 quick 
baskets by co-captain Carl Mulac. The Tar
tans went into the locker room trailing by 6, 
46-40.
Back to back baskets by Neff and Mulac at 
the opening of the 2nd half pulled the Tar
tans to within 2 points, and it looked like 
they were going to give the Terriers a serious 
run for it. Forget it. The Terriers cornered 
continued on page 18
eath
photo by Rhoda Funk
Sophomore guard Greg Gabriel looks aghast as he takes a gander at the scoreboard.
Lady Tartans eek out win
11 Point guard Laurie Arendas pulls up for 2 of her 14 points.
By PHIL CASTLE
Tartan Staffwriter
I crawled out of bed Saturday morning 
and growled about being so foolish as to 
wake up to cover a basketball game. Zipping 
down to the Kilte Cafe, I pondered How 
good can a college basketball game be when 
I cant watch the Celtics without being frus
trated? After putting down my daily gar
bage I shuffled over to the gym for the 
womens basketball game.
Well I didnt find any Nancy Lieber-- 
mans waiting to be discovered but I did find 
an exciting and highly competitive game 
between St. Francis and our own Tartan 
team. Even better was the fact that CMU 
prevailed 58-55 over the visitors in a game 
that had a litde of everything except a shat
tered backboard. The win for CMU boasted 
their record to 3-5.
With incredible insight I noticed a defi
nite height advantage for St. Francis and 
when they began the game pressing full 
court against CMU, I thought the game 
would be over before it started. CMU man
aged to have an edge 10-9 at 14:55, taking 
advantage of St. Francis slow transition 
from offense to D.
When CMU opened the lead to 13-9, St. 
Francis called a timeout to regroup. St. Fran
cis, who continued to be shutoff inside by a 
tough 1-3-1 zone, moved by outside shoot
ing and closed the lead to20-19 CMU. CMU 
guard Michelle Schlegel then worked the
lead to 7 with 6 straight points only to see 
her team be out-scored 9-to-3 in the closing 
moments of the half, leaving CMU up 29- 
28.
The Tartans won the 2nd half tip but let 
St. Francis run off 8 unanswered points, 
forcing CMU Coach Kathleen Paczkowski 
to call time. CMU and St. Francis then 
traded baskets on two fine passing plays 
leaving the score at 38-31. Scrapping and 
scrounging CMU pressed St. Francis into a 
timeout with score tied at 40.
St. Francis time out didnt seem to help as 
CMU ran 7 more points off, the most spec
tacular of which was a turn around jumper 
by senior captain Deborah Durr.
The score was 47-40 when St. Francis 
called another time out at 11:15 left in the 
game. St. Francis worked the lead down to 4 
but CMU, getting the lead out, opened 
the lead to the biggest margin of 8 points.
After another timeout at 7:10, St. Francis 
made their final run. Led by sub Sheryl 
Polesnak who hit two very long set shots, St. 
Francis found the lead a mere three at 3:58. 
Unfortunately for St. Francis, the Tartans 
were not to be denied a victory and walked 
off the court victorious 85-55.
CMU was led by Schlegel, Durr, and 
Arendas. Schlegel lead the Tartan scorers 
with 24 points and added 11 rebounds. Dunwalked away with 20 points and led the 
team in rebounds with 12 boards. Point 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanFebruary 1,1983
Hockey skates past lowly Allegheny 11-3
By WILLIAM A. HEYSE
Tartan StaffurriUrr
It was another example of the Tartans 
out-classing their opponents as CMU 
whipped Allegheny College 11-3 at the 
Civic Arena Saturday.
The Tartans scored six goals in the first 
period and one in the second before Allegh
eny got their first. Then it was a seesaw 
battle as CMU and Allegheny alternated 
scoring every 30 seconds or so. In the third 
period the Tartans added two more to close 
the score at 11-3.
Goals for the Tartans were Rick Samuelson with 2, Eric Spray, Bill Heyse, Andy 
Andrejko, Rob Katz, Don Heyse, Ted Sawson, Paul Russo, Mike Panno and Rob 
Koch with one each.
The Tartans host WVU Wednesday at 
10:00 p.m. and IUP Saturday at 2:30 p.m.
Both games are at the Lakevue Ice palace. Goalie Kuskowski makes a sliding save against Allegheny last Saturday at the Civic Arena.
CMU needs to improve their faulty defense
continued from page 17
with 3 successive baskets, 2 by freshman Jim 
Smart and the other by Miller. Following a
Ladies win
continued from page 17
guard Laurie Arendas chipped in 14 points 
and forced 6 turnovers via steals and blocks. 
St. Francis had 4 ballplayers in double 
figures.
Afterwards Coach Paczkowski com
mented, "We thought wed try some things. 
We went to a man to man defense because 
we thought they were weak at guard. We 
normally play a 1-3-1 zone but we shifted to 
a man to man to put pressure on the ball.
Bennett jumper, a Shivers 5 foot jumper was 
followed by a 3 point play by senior playmaker Ron McCleary. This gave the Terri
ers an 11 point edge and things didnt get 
any better. A Gabriel 15 foot jumper cut the 
lead to 9, but not for long. Shivers connected 
on 3 shots and Miller added another as the 
Terriers opened the game up. By this dme, 
5:00 minutes left in the game, the Terriers 
were up by 15, 72-57. The 2 teams traded 
baskets until the game ended.
The Terriers shot over 85% from the foul 
line. McCleary was 7 for 7, all coming in the 
second half.
The Tartans have yet to win a game in the 
and 18th leading scorers. Gabriel is averagconference, although they possess the 4th
ing 18, while Mulac is chipping in 11.8. The 
Tartans are giving up and average of 77 
points a game. This is entirely too much, 
considering they are only averaging 63.6. Its 
about time that they play tough agressive
defense for 40 minutes and snap this 1 
game losing streak. If it wasnt for Bob Ki 
kowskis last second jumper again! 
Westminster, the Tartans would be winles 
for the 82-83 season.
IM hoops schedules out
The IM department has confirmed the 
rumor that the schedules for both Basketball 
divisions have finally been made up and can 
be picked up in the IM office. If your squad 
missed out on a couple of games because 
you didnt know when to play, bummer for 
you.
Comm. Sheila Dunham of Darts has
DOSSIER
Spring Deadline:
Need 
Free Tape Recorded 
Legal or Medical 
Information ?
281-4664
crowned a champion. Thats right, the boyi 
from Theta Xi, who were undefeated durinj 
the regular season, outtossed their oppo 
nents and ran away with the title.
February 3rd is the last day that you 
hand your entries for Call Pool and Tabl 
Tennis. They can be dropped off anytim 
before 4:30 of that day. Commissioners 
needed for both sports.
There will be a soccer clinic given < 
Duquesne University Thursday, Feb. 24th 
at 3:00 p.m. in the Towers Lounge. Eve 
ryone, including Mr. Birdy, is invited.
Commissioners are still needed for Wres 
tling and Bridge. Anyone who cares ti 
employ themselves may stop by the 
office and leave your name.
For submissions of:
B/W ART 
FICTION 
POETRY 
CREATIVE ESSAYS
FEBRUARY 22
Send submisisons to DOSSIER c/o The 
Tartan (writing); studio at Baker Hall 135 
(art)
HAIR PEOPLE
gyg bowoOT o,h S1yeWV1n
Bring this coupon and get
$5 OFF Zcu,
or
$16 OFF
Ldf OLLz o''HdCdLC 
sHx'HRf fBCmL vFgF1v
TxGxLfRL 6Rm*LfmCu 
6RmHR HUBd IHBz 
'LfLRCf
Harvey Wasserman
author of
KILLING OUR OWN
The Disaster of America's Experience with Atomic Radiation
Duquesne University 
Union Ballroom 
Wednesday, February 9 
8 p.m.
UMON
UNONMOGHAMaOMO
PmcMLCf yann o*BmNB:NL BC& 
TxGxLfRL 6RmHR rRHdBCmHR sLRCLk 
mCC PmcMLC bmcL BRz s26 e 5rIb 
For more Information call 434-6640

---------------------------------------------------

February 1,1983The TartanPaga 19
tudents forced to pay damages in dormitory room
y NANCY RITCHEY
[orton Stoffwritn
Were looking to encourage a real sense 
f responsibility in the students for their 
nvironment, said housing director Tony 
fartin about the system of charging the 
tudents in donnitories for vandalism damges. According to Martin the policy was 
lUt into effect last year to help decrease vanalism costs by making them the responsiilty of the dorm residents themselves. He 
iid that there exist areas on campus that 
resent more of a problem than others. It 
,as not fair to make residents of areas with 
tde damage pay for the areas where there is 
problem, he said.
There have, however, been a few snags 
ith the actual repair of the vandalism damre. Four students in point, two from Boss 
[all and two from Morewood, said that the
damage caused to their rooms, for which 
they had paid, was never repaired. The inci
dents involved charges for repainting items 
which are still not repainted and for broken 
items which were not broken when the 
students left at the end of the semester.
Martin commented on these incidents 
saying, We try as much as possible to 
spend all of the money that is collected on 
the specific damaged areas. Im not sur
prised to hear that there are isolated areas 
where not everything was repainted.
The reason for the lack of repairs, accord
ing to Martin was the aggressive painting 
program the university has adopted in 
order to promote more uniformity in the 
dorms. We want to do each type of work, 
such as painting, wholesale. Doing more at 
once costs less, he said. In this way the
rooms in a certain wing will all be in uni
form stages of repair. Other reasons for the 
unrepaired rooms was the possibility that 
Morewoods B wing was going to be reno
vated, making a new coat of paint at that 
time wasteful.
The reason students are still expected to 
pay for the damages they have caused, 
according to Martin, is to show that that 
type of conduct is just not acceptable. It is a 
good thing educationally when it is possible 
to hold a student accountable for the dam
ages he causes. The money they pay, he 
said, does indeed go to the cost of vandalism 
repair.
Although Martin said it would not be 
honest to speculate on the success of the 
program by comparing last years and last 
semesters vandalism charges, he did say that
CMU students affected by budget cuts
iued from page 5
ill be cut down, since may students will no 
Lnger have to fill out the long financial aid 
)ims. The financial aid office has been 
lushing individual states to allow applica|ons for state grants to be done over the 
Dmputer. In addition, student files will 
low be kept on the computer. Loans will 
[Iso be handled over the computer. 
According to Cathie, CMU will be the 
rst school in the country to handle loans 
ver the computer. Instead of the usual six to 
Ight weeks it used to take to finalize loans, 
ie process will now take three days.
So far the only Pittsburgh bank to agree to 
rnimit themselves to this new method of 
nnputer loans has been the Pittsburgh 
|fadonal Bank. Cathie hopes that Mellon 
ank will soon follow suit.
Mellon is by far the largest lender, 
athie explained. A year from now virtully every bank will be forced to [change to 
le computer method]. Cathie is sure that
Pitt and Duquesne will change their process 
when they have adequate computer systems. 
Its going to be the way of the future, said 
Cathie.
GE grants fifty grand
Friday, the General Electric Foundation 
presented a grant of $50,000 to an interde
partmental program which studies robotics.
The money will be used to research the 
effects of robotics on the individual worker, 
the economy, productivity, trade, and inter
national competition. Organization and 
management of robotics in the work force 
and applications in the undersea, under
ground, offices, and homes will also be 
studied.
The donation is an unrestricted grant to 
support educational activities, according to 
Arthur Chen, who presented the check from 
G.E. G.E. cannot require CMU to give 
reports on its research.
EXTENDED WEAR 
CONTACT LENSES
PFRMAIENS
We are pleased and excited fo be offering 
extended wear soft lenses. The contacts you 
can wear continuously for up to two weeks.
Dr. Susan N. Csonka
Associated in the Practice of 
Optometry with Dr. Daniel Goldstein
Now
Penn Hills509 Long R J
731-193C
Oakiand3529 tcrt.es
621,19?;
Women's
Health
Services,
PEH LURBRcu 
PLfCmRU wHcBCmHRf
bBMNBRz
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
THERCHER
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh. PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and 
instructions. Confidential counseling available.
jbtft Concjent...
theRoy&l wayChoir
5rti.5ib.4 1983 
7=50 PM.
iTkffon tOrtstuifi.
Aidiioku/m.
S.MfetakL hH.Oomi ?
(5a> 4*fovma!lccJi Rtqc 24 2  Ji5o)
there was no question that the program had 
helped shrink the campus vandalism prob
lem. I think once people pay for their dam
age, they are less likely to make the same 
mistake again, he said.
There are some specific areas where the 
drop in vandalism has been dramatic. Mar
tin said. There are no longer areas that 
stand out as being very bad. He said that 
this year there were even some students who 
came forward and offered to personally 
pay for damage they caused. This is a 
refreshing thing.
Martin said that the programs efficiency 
has improved over last year in that more 
accurate accounts of damages are now being 
made. For the future he said, We dont 
want to have to do this. I can foresee a time 
when this will not be necessary.
photo by Steve Winawer
Arthur Chen, from the G.E. foundation, presents the check to Edward Schatz, senior vice 
president, and Professor Robert Ayres.
Chase Manhattan Bank
O
Invites All Seniors with an 
Interest in Production Management 
to Attend an Information Session 
Sponsored By Corporate Operations
and Systems
Opportunities in the Following Areas 
Will Be Discussed
 Management Development Program
 Operations Analyst
 Financial Management
SkiboRm. 12
February 3# 1983
5:30 p.m. Thursday Evening

---------------------------------------------------

JOE FRESHMANBy Mark Levine
f ANO Tf 
YouUKe S 
COHIN& ooP H 
n?39 ABNN 
oOC 2rO6P(kCNSCP4
OtyJOf, ^ 
lHx YoOP T0T 
f\ G\tL Fm^A/0 6/ 
VAUWnME5 O^yV Kl6Hn?J^
OOST PKK THC KPpRo/M , |\ND 6cr , V ^^nua SuIy
SW/JSN'T TMISA/HWUIT THi OL' *$TfcNO V Seen
umpD fcND N,Wh,*TWCCf
w bPPtiofiCH? y owe in
/you nbP DEV6N use \ THi OL' 1 
ntKlN0 UND UNOERST>HOIN(T
, IW0ACH.V
^rO^H6W\ 
/ /VOUT g
jm L' 1
5V3A\iE
/VMO
SomiTlCfcTfctf 
V W>PPOKOi!!/
JUSTfeo OP ANO KSK \te*OUTi
*1193 A2)8 x*RCc
YOU REALLY T/AKIr
phh otb ySe vSo
OF OW/VlAK? A 006FETCH THE STICK LEX j
Fumes.
STUDENT SENA TE VACANCIES
MCS  2 
CFA  1
Pick up petitions and information at 
Skibo Information Desk. Petitions due 
Thursday, February 10,1982, at 5:00 p.m.
ft# i ii .I.'funcMO oy SITTO TH

---------------------------------------------------

February 1,1963Tha TartanPaga 21
lettersa fier and Nate are liability to their species
tor:very week I make an effort to get a copy 
e Tartan, and every week I find that 
d of noteworthy events and interesting 
ures, there are a whole bunch of flaming 
well-right-back-in-your-faoe opinI hope that this will not be in with that 
ch, as I feel that my opinion may be 
by others in earnest 
am so tired of seeing pointless articles 
inging on such overworked and uninting topics as the assumed-to-be-offts interior of Warner Hall and Food 
ce that I often make it a point to turn 
t these unpleasant and spiteful pages 
cated to Opinions and move on to the 
re pertinent and involving articles that 
be found in the latter pages of the paper, 
each week I have told myself that if I 
really bothered by that, that I should 
te to the Editor  but the thought of 
ng part of the usual fare found in this
section usually was enough to bring me 
around.
Well, after reading Mr. Safiers last article 
I got to my usual point of mild nausea, 
but then I caught sight of that ever-present 
sprite of purpose and goals (I refer to Nate 
Solano, of course) weekly grunt and went 
over the brink. Never before craning to 
CMU had I ever met a student body presi
dent that was a liability to his species. I have 
not heard mention, ever, ever, of a positive 
result brought about by master Solano or his 
mischeivious deeds, and Ive been asking.
After the Tuition Rally I was continu
ally plagued by the thought of that many 
people following such leadership around 
and couldnt stop wondering what kind of a 
massive power trip he was on. I can only 
picture him as a seedy malcontent His 
insistence on enflaming the administration 
with such activities may possibly be the
manifestation of some incredible feeling of 
lack erf personal purpose.
And it may be an unfair point but those 
erf us who have had friends slaughtered by 
drunk drivers might have reason to castrate 
him (if it were possible) after his insolence of 
Jan. 18s Tartan. His excuse for such monu
mental crass oblivity to such a serious issue 
{Tartan, Jan.25)  I fear my insensitivity is 
a function of my [adjective restrained, 
Author] perception of humor  is fuel for 
the argument Thats no excuse, Nate. May 
you be in the passenger seat when the .25% 
alcohol driver begins to munch down some 
blues and go cruising around Pittsburgh at 
85 mph. Enough.
And in regard to Scott Safiers kvetching, 
may I request that the Tartan staff have a 
photographer snap a pic or two for some 
glossies of Scott eating his usual two meals a 
day where no self-respecting pig would
touch it. His article touches lighdy upon 
the facts erf his complaint (examples such as 
undercooked ravioli I cant contest; by no 
means will it kill me, however) but then 
basks lavishly in such overkill as eye 
droppers and 20-year-old grease on the grill. 
Hes been on this binge of civil disobe
dience lately. I dont think, Scott thatThoreau would have been moved by the thought 
of leaving dirty dishes lying about; com
pared to unfair land taxation I would think 
that a small matter.
Ill close before I really get irrational and 
rage: lets move the opinions to the back of 
the paper, right there near the classifieds. 
More top paper will be available for the 
news and we can line our birdcages with the 
opinions of the likes of Solano and still 
collect the decent articles.
Ward Travis 
Freshman, Applied Math
chool must provide for student's artistic needs
ton
am responding to the letter with the 
dline, Arcade provides more utility 
n an art gallery, which was published in 
weeks Tartan. I question the authors 
mptions upon which he/she bases 
er ideas in the letter, 
owhere in the letter does he/she subdate his/her statement, Besides, Mr. 
ens entry (into an art gallery for amateurs) would probably be the only one, or do 
Mech Es really have so much spare time 
that they can paint Picassos on weekends? 
What surveys of the Mechanical Engineer
ing majors at CMU has the author con
ducted to back up his/her implication that 
they have no time to pursue their hobbies, 
one of which may be painting?
The reasons the author gives as to why a 
video arcade is more utilitarian than an art
ro-lifers' claim false
tor
riday night, January 21, we were downat the comer of Fourth and Wood for a 
oice rally scheduled at the YWCA. 
were somewhat surprised to discover 
e CMU students demonstrating in front 
e doorway. When we got close enough 
d their signs, we were quite disturbed 
read one which stated: "CMU is Proe. We found it distressing that these sui
ts claimed to represent the position of 
entire CMU community on the abortion
issue, without any data to substantiate their 
Pro-Life claim.
Although we are members of the CMU 
Pro-choice Involvement Committee, we 
attended the rally as individuals. We found 
it inappropriate that the CMU Association 
for Life borrowed the Universitys reputa
tion to lend support to their position on a 
political issue:
Marianne Vakiener 
Paul Kohlbrenner
gallery are: A video arcade would raise 
money for our poverty stricken school; 
video games provide cheap entertain
ment; and the arcade may be a place to 
meet women besides fraternities. The 
author should have investigated the finan
cial state CMU is in before he/she called the 
institution poverty stricken. He/she 
should have asked a random sampling of 
the video game players at the Tartan Grill 
how much they spend on the average a day 
on the games before he/she stated that they 
provide cheap entertainment. Further
more, it is not the responsibility of this uni
versity to provide a place to meet women 
for anyone in the campus community.
However, I feel that CMU is obligated, due 
to its high tuition, to provide for its students 
convenience (which the newest laundrymat 
certainly is), academic facilities (of which 
the newest computer center is one), and a 
place where any student can express himself 
through any art form (which the Forbes 
Gallery is, but considering how fast its 
shows get filled up, another place would 
certainly help).
I suggest to the author that if he/she 
wants to be taken seriously, he/she should 
substantiate every statement he/she makes 
before he/she makes fun of the idea of an art 
gallery in the storefronts. I respect his/her 
continued on page 22
Food needed to take finals
Allegheny Womens Centeran out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both (enters will be open d.t+y tor pregnancy tesh and coumeling.
Medical Center Esl Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206i"* C enter
Marcella's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(Turabian-APAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
sBNN 2fa YLfC vqg evSiq 
0yV AHx fL*mcLK 
10% discount with coupon
Editor
Well, fall finals are no longer hanging 
over our heads, but think back if you will to 
the long hours of tedious study until the wee 
hours of the morning put in preparing for 
them. This is not the subject about which 
we write this letter, but rather about the 
further hardships which we and many of 
our fellow students were put through at 
some fault of the administration.
In our opinion, the best way to go into a 
final is with a full mind and a full stomach. 
For those of us whose Dynamics and Equili
bria final fell on Saturday at 8:30 a.m., this 
was not to be. Someone lacked the foresight 
to realize the crowds that would be pound
ing at the doors of the Tartan Grill that 
morning, looking for a decent breakfast
before their first final.
Our complaint is this: if we do get stuck 
with our 8:30 Saturday final again, (against 
University policy, we noted), would some
one please request that at least one of the 
food service facilities be open to serve us 
breakfast so that we can take our finals with 
more than a growl in our stomachs?
Another point we feel worthy erf mention 
was the fact that the testing centers (notably 
Doherty and Porter Halls) lacked heat 
that morning. We were both forced to keep 
our coats and gloves on throughout the 
final. We didnt appreciate it.
Jay Miller 
Tony Sargent 
Freshmen, CI'I
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP
LAW
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available In Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
ThE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts) 
STROHS
LOWENBRAU Lt.. Ok..- bottles
MICHE10B
BUD WEISER
MIUER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGER-bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMI0TS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texos)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE-bottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuna  TurkeySANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck  Chicken ParmesanSPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fiesh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice ol 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 omWE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES 
Serving beer Sunday 1 pm 2 om 
Imports. Cans. Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers 
HEINEKEN  MOL SON ALE  MICHELOB 
STROHS  MILLERS  SCHIITZ MALT
On# different 16 oi 6 pfc 
featured each week
STROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHIITZ 
OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHIITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
KCK'S It 0k Germany 
BASS Alt Englond 
HARP LAGER - Ireland 
MOLSON GOLDEN - Canodo 
HEINEKEN It Dk -Hotlond 
LOWENBRAUG^many 
0KEEEE ALE  Canodo
ERrUFDG VGIVDrrb Cm*
KIRIN-Jopon
MACKESS0N STOUT _ betend 
010 VIENNA LAGER Conada 
SS LAGER-Conodo
Den
ST PAUUGMtl-Germany 
OOS EQUIS XX - Mew
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNETS England 
CARLSBERG ELEPHANT 
CARISSERG ROYAlf 
CARLSBERG DARK 
TSINGTAO China 
HACKER PSCHOKR Germany 
LASATT S - Conodo 
MURPHY - Irttend 
COOPER 1 SON - Auttntfio 
EOSTER S LAGER Auttrotio
DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3 45am Sun-Thurs 
9om-4 4Sam Fri-Sot 
Coll 621 7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Awe (Oaklond) 
Pgh PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

University of California
I  Lawrence Livermore L A National Laboratory
ON CAMPUS:Wednesday, February 9,1983
*
Page 22The Tartan February 1,1983
rr * * 
m*- 
 #* 
Story unrepresentative
Editor:
The front page of todays Tartan took me 
aback. Since when did the CMU newspaper 
start to cover political demonstrations in 
Washington? This represents an abrupt 
change in policy.
And what about the demonstration that 
got so much coverage - at least, in this paper? 
Was it college students lobbying for 
increased aid to higher education or more 
student loans? No, not at all.
I object to the Tartan going 200 miles to 
report cm backward-looking negativists. 
The Anti-choice faction promotes the 
desires of a tiny, well-financed minority of 
the American public. Their non-local activi
ties do not warrant coverage in our news
paper. Cover more important events 
relevant to our campus.
Thank you,
Barry T. Whittemore 
Grad student
More video games not necessary
continued from page 21
obvious preference of playing video games 
over painting as an entertainment form and 
I do not suggest removing any video or pin
ball machines from the Tartan Grill, 
Donner Hall, AND Morewood Gardens. 
But that is the whole point  there are
enough games out there but only one place 
where one can show his artwork. An addi
tional gallery is not a stupid idea  it makes 
sense and would help promote selfexpression through a sophisticated form 
and with dignity.
Reiko Yanoscunmr i have: tzi Tut that rmc
Creative minds pursue 
a diversity of imaginative solutions
I p Lawrence Livermore iLA National Laboratory
Where you can put your talents to work on the future,
LLNL is an environment Beyond your involvement
designed to produce solutions in exceptional projects,
 a place where you can youll be able to enjoy
participate fully in the creation Northern Californias vast array
and exploration of tomorrow's 
technology.
We otter a wide range of areas 9 ;
in which you can succeed.
In defense, we re providing 
leadership in the conception 
and design of Americas defense 
capabilities. *
In laser and magnetic fusion, ________
we re devising ways to harness 
nuclear energy.
University of California
of cultural, educational and 
recreational activities.
Ask your Placement Office for 
details, or contact us for more 
information by forwarding your 
resume to:
Employment Division,
LAWRENCE LIVERMORE 
NATIONAL LABORATORY,
P.O.Box 5510, Dept.JCR, 
Livermore, CA 94550
U.S. Citizenship is reauired. An 
Eaual Opportunity Employer, 
M/F/H/V.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
lassleds
type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
nes manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
Qjl Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
r mailed Bible correspondence course,
, 3^ study, or counselling from the Word 
xi write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 10542, 
PA 15235. Phone: 795-2560
$25? Be a female mud wresder. No expenecessary. Call 241-8664 or 361-3745.
I help with term papers? Fact or fiction. Bibaphies according to Turabian. Books and 
(nes procured. Call the information expedM-F/9-3, 481-9338.
editing, tutoring in English. Also typservice for manuscripts (minimum one week 
,und). 734-1331 or 761-8584.
sublet one minute from campus, 4- 
room, 2tt-bathroom furnished house, 
50/room and utilities call after 5 p.m. 681-
ION CMU MALES! Are you daring? 
itive? Witty? Heres your chance to exercise 
talents! I am looking for creative ways to 
irate my birthday. If you have any ideas to 
i, send them to BIRTHDAY, c/o the Tartan.
include your name and telephone 
iber. If I like your idea then youll be required 
dp celebrate! All ideas must be received by
8. P.S. I want a birthday to remember. 
A FUN-LOVING CMU FEMALE
|u Ballroom dance dub. Learn to dance, free 
ans, every Friday 3:00-4:30, Thisde Hall
i). Beginners welcome!
THUMBS? Call Catherine at x4225. Fast, 
typing. $1.50 per page for first five pages, 
per page thereafter.
Live-in babysitter for three children (mosdy wee
kends), light housework, in exchange for free 
room and board. Private room and bath. Walk
ing distance to University. For March 1. Write
S.D.D., P.O. Box 5141, Pgh., PA 15206.
ABSOLUTELY GORGEOUS HANDMADE 
CARDS!!! Handmade and designed expressly for 
you, or someone special  far better than Hal
lmark crap! Catherine x4225.
WJMILYCSV. . JL and Y. . .computer mail. . 
.Livingston Taylor and Bach.. .running.. .Tm 
co-oold!. . .newspaper at breakfast. . .Delta 
Upsilon. . .hugging by phone. . .candles. . ."a 
passionate relationship. . .AIRBORNE!. . 
.Fredericktown.. .Stormy Weather.. .Combos. 
. .What a wench!. . .Juicy Fruit. . .Hi, gor
geous!. . .AM or PM?. . .Dominos. . .Kennywood. . .thank-you notes. . .one hell erf a year!
Position Open: Female waitresses and barmaids. 
Apply in person at Panther Hollow Inn. 682- 
9999 Ask for Bob or Allie.
Room and board in Squirrel Hill in exchange for 
20 hrs/week mainly meal and baby help. Large 
sunny room, private 3rd floor with bath. Nice 
street. Near buses. % mile from CMU. 687-1266
German Tutoring - If you need help call 681- 
2277 in the evening and ask for Klaus.
Pitt Professor needs tutoring in EMACS. Write 
P.O. Box 19034, Pittsburgh, PA 15273. |4.00 per 
hour.general
clubs
Counselors, over 18 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct any one erf the 
following watersafety, waterskiing, boating, 
sexcer, basketball, arts 8c crafts, rockdimbing, 
riflery, ham radio, rocketry, science, archery, wl llwllll 
track, tennis, golf, photography, pioneering, or 
general athletics. Write camp director, 138 Red 
Rambler Dr., Lafayette Hill, PA 19444
Rugby Club  All newcomers welcome!! Prac
tice every day this week  4:45 at the gym 
entrance. For those on the dub who want to order 
jackets, be at Skibo, room 11 at9p.m. on Wednes
day, Feb 2. For further information call Adam at 
687-0381.
Scotch n Soda, the student drama dub wants 
directors and technical directors to be Carried 
Away by the 1983 Spring Musical. Interested  
come by February 5th, 12 noon, 40D, Skibo.
IEEE Meeting: Nominations for president, vicepresidents (2), secretary, treasurer and activities 
chair will be accepted at the meeting cm Wednes
day, February 2 at 7:30 p.m. in DH 1112. All 
members are urged to attend. Refreshments will 
be served. To join IEEE see Dr. Hoburg in PH 
18K.
AIESEC invites students of all majors to attend 
their weekly meetings at 4:30 in Room 12, Skibo, 
every Wednesday afternoon. Questions? Call 
x3515 anytime!
Meeting of the Womens Educational Alliance
Wednesday 7:00 p.m., Skibo Rm.ll. New 
members welcome.
The Academic Bag Ladies are meeting over 
lunch Thursday, 12-1, Lutheran University Cen
ter, 4515 Forbes Ave. Oakland. Info: 682-6886
PRESIDENT TO HAVE OPEN OFFICE 
HOURS FOR STUDENTS President Richard 
M. Cyert will have open office hours for students 
between 3 and 5 p.m., in his office, 602 Warner 
Hall on Friday, February 4, 1983. Students who 
wish to meet with the president should telephone 
his office, 578-2200, to set up an appointment
Mortar board word erf the week: peccant: sinful or 
guilty. Example: The peccant aldulterers were 
ashamed
Informal Bible Discussion group meets every 
Monday evening at 9, in Room 39, Skibo. It is 
non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett Room. Students are invited 
to come and address the Senate during Audience 
Partidpation.
Again this year the European Studies Program 
will be offering a prize for the best essay in Euro
pean Studies (any subject pertaining to Europe) 
by an undergraduate. The award will be $150. 
Essays are due April 15, 1983. Further informa
tion is available from Dr. Peter N. Steams, BH 
242B, extension 2884.
NOTICE: All unemployed work-study students 
should contact Jean Holzman.Room 209, Finan
cial Aid Office, Monday through Friday, 2 to 4 
p.m., to provide her with updated information 
concerning spring semester schedules.
Eighth Annual Poetry Contest A $1,000 grand 
prize win be awarded in the Eighth Annual Poe
try Competition sponsored by World of Poetry, a 
quarterly newsletter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject are eligible 
to compete few the grand prize or for 99 other cash 
or merchandise awards, totaling over $10,000. 
Says Contest Chairman, Joseph Mellon, We are 
encouraging poetic talent erf every kind, and 
expect our contest to produce exdting 
discoveries.
Rules and official entry forms are available from 
the World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. 
G, Sacramento, California 95817.Get that
GreatX
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
Ml
WRITERS AND ARTISTS:
Oakland Review, CMtPs literary magazine, is accepting submis
sions of poetry, fiction, drama, and artwork for the 1983 edition. 
Submissions should be placed at the Skibo Info Desk, in care of the 
Editor, Oakland Review. Deadline for submissions is February 25. 
Questions, contact Kristin Kovacic at x4242.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-1LOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
yiann
OnDlnMI.
Mon.. Tu., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-9500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
KeaacN wmiriBC
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Funded by Activities Fee
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 1, 1983
events
The Forbes Gallery announces the 1983 TSHIRT DESIGN CONTEST. The design must 
be simple, graphic and contemporary. The 
words Forbes Gallery must appear, but not 
monopolize the design. Submit your design 
(actual size, 1 side of shirt) to the Forbes Gallery 
box at the Skibo Info Desk by Monday, Feb. 21. 
$50.00 CASH PRIZE IF YOUR DESIGN IS 
SELECTED.
W orks by Byron MeCulloh, Camegie-Mellon 
University artist/lecturer in music, will compose 
the entire program at a Shadyside Concerts pres
entation at 2:30 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 13 in the First 
Unitarian Church, Morewood Avenue and Elsworth Street
Nuclear Era Film Series Monday, February 7, 
1983 - 6:45 p.m. DH 2210 Day After Trinity: J. 
Robert Oppenheimer and the Atomic Bomb (88 
minutes) First shown on television in 1981, this 
film document the drama of J. Robert Oppenhei
mer, the head erf the project that built the bomb 
and the target of a hearing that took away his 
security clearance.
Films on Combustion
February 3, 1:30-2:30 p.m. in the Scaife Auditonum; Measurement and Computadon of Vorticitv Structure in Turbulent Combustion.
Forbes Gallery Show February 2-5, Show of con
structions, paintings, and fiber by Shelly Mock, 
Cheryl Regan, and Jung-Ah Yoo. Forbes 
Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave., Hours: Tues. - Sat. 11 
a.m. - 6 p.m.
CMUs Hewlett Gallery will feature sketches and 
renderings of scene designer Jo Mielziner from 
Feb. 12 through March 9. Mielziners highly 
influenual career in both scenic and lighdng 
design spanned over 50 years and earned him 
many awards and honors, including an Oscar for 
his color art direction of the film "Picnic, best 
scenic designer designation for nine consecutive 
seasons by Variety, and three Tonys for his work 
in A Streetcar Named Desire, Death of a Sales
man, and The Innocents.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine Arts is 
open to the public without charge from 11 a.m. 
to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Friday, noon to 4 
p.m. Saturday, and 1 to 4 p.m. Sunday.
Phi Mu Alpha, professional music fraternity at 
CMU, will sponsor a jazz invitational concert at 
7:30 p.m., Thursday, Feb. 3 in Skibo Ballroom on 
campus.
Groups participating include the CMU Concert 
Jazz Ensemble and the Jazz Lab Band, both 
under the direction of Randy Purcell; Duquesne 
University Jazz Ensemble, directed by John Wil
son; and the West Virginia University Jazz Band, 
directed by Joe Eckert.
The event is open to the public. Ticketsare$l for 
students, $2 for adults, are available through the 
music departments of participating schools or at 
the door. Proceeds will go to Childrens Hospital 
and the Phi Mu Alpha scholarship fund. In addi
tion, the fraternity will commission the composi
tion of new musical works.
Forbes Gallery
February 9-12; show of drawings and illustra
tions by Lynnette Cubeta, Lynn Latona, and 
Mary Jo McMahon.
The Drama Department will present Ibsens 
Lady From the Sea February 14, 15 and 16 in 
the Studio Theatre. Show times are Monday at 8 
p.m., Tuesday at 4:30 and 8 p.m., and Wed. at 
4:30 p.m. The shows are free to all.
Roman Catholic Undergrads. The Oratory Par
ish continues its Wednesday Night program this 
Wed., Feb. 2nd. Beginning with Mass at 6:00, 
followed by a free buffet dinner, the evening con
cludes with a discussion session. Contact Fr. Bob 
at 681-3181 or Andy at 621-2911 for more info 
Everyone is welcome.
The Penn Hills Players will be holding auditions 
for their Spring 83 production of Neil Simons 
Chapter Two on February 2 and 3 at 8 p.m. at the 
hall of the Hebron United Presbyterian Church 
at 10460 Frankstown Road in Penn Hills.
Nick Pranis will be directing the play, slated to be 
performed April 15, 16, 22 and 23.
Auditions are open to the public. Call Betzip0 
ers if more information is needed at 793-0857 
GERMAN FILM SERIES All films will, 
shown at 7 p.m. in Gregg Hall (Porter Hall l(j_ 
Free and open to the public, everyone welcom 
Wednesday, February 9, 1983, ENDE ElNfc 
DIENSTFAHRT (color, English dialog), f 
play based on a novel by Heinrich Boell. AQj 
man army jeep blows up in flames. The arsonjj 
are singing the All Saints Liturgy while dancm 
around the Corpus Delicti. A law suit 
initiated against carpenter Johann Heinri 
Gruhl and his son Georg, who up to the time 
the crime was a corporal in the Army. The leg 
proceedings are turned into a satire by the defen 
ants. Director: Hans-Dietrich Schwarze. Starrm 
Wolfgang Buettner, Alois Marie Giani andHei 
rich Huber.
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will join with i 
Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble to present 
exciting weekend of new dance and new mu 
on February 11,12, and 13. These Performai* 
are a part of the Alloys regular subscriptions 
ies at Chatham Colleges Eddy Theatre. Thefi 
day and Saturday concerts are at 8:00 p.m. 1 
Sunday matinee is at 2:00 p.m. Also on the pn 
gram for February is the premiere of Frien 
and Lovers by guest artist Richard Bunows,a 
a special appearance by guest director, J. Micha 
Kane, who will dance a new solo work.
This Desk Can Reach Mach 2.
Some desk jobs are 
more exciting than 
others.
As a Navy pilot 
or flight officer, your 
desk can be a sophis 
ticated combination 
of supersonic jet air
craft and advanced electronic equipment. 
But you can handle it. Because Navy 
flight training gives you the navigation, 
aerodynamics and other technical 
know-how you need.
In return. Navy aviation demands 
something of you as an officer: 
Leadership.
Your path to leadership starts with 
officer training thats among the most 
demanding in the military. Its intensive 
leadership and professional schooling 
combined with rigorous Navy flight 
training. And its all geared to prepare
you and other college ______________________
graduates for the 
unique challenge of 
Navy aviation. The 
program is tough but 
rewarding.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 210
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton. NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Team. (0A)
Name.
One important 
reward for Navy 
officers is decision*
I Please Print I
Address.
City.
A|?e_
.State.
."^College/University
 Year in College. 
AM a jor/ M inor_
making authority.
In the air, and on the 
ground, you have 
management responsi
bility from the begin
ning. And your 
responsibility grows 
as you gain experience. 
No company can give you this kind of 
leadership responsibility this fast. And 
nothing beats the sheer excitement of 
Navy flying.
The salary is exciting, too. Right 
away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. 
Thats better than the average corpora
tion will pay you just out of college.
And with regular Navy promotions and 
other pay increases, your annual 
salary will soar to $31,100 after four 
years. Thats on top of a full package 
of benefits and privileges.
Before you settle down to an earth__________________bound desk job, reach
for the sky. Reach for 
the coupon. Find out 
what it takes to be 
part of the Naval 
Aviation Tfeam. You 
could have a desk 
that flies at twice the 
speed of sound.
.Apt.
.Zip.
.?GPA
Phone Number.lArea Codei Best Time to CallI
 This is for general recruitment information You do not have to furnish any of the information requested Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy positions for which you qualify MG 9/82
Navy Officers Get Responsibility East.
-----
