1SPSI
OCTOBER 6, 1909
Volume IV 
Number 3Two Dollars the Year 
Ten Cents the Copy
The Tartar
Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
1 THE RITTENHOUSE
Affords Superior Facilities for 
Serving Dinners, Balls 
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned 
making it perfect for dancing.
= I i
I1 I g i g o * $  o 

Special Inducements to Students 
' of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE
*
D*
g$gg
?

s 
 
 So 
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
b'A SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE

gIi
g
CAPITAL$4,000,000
 
g 
g g O  o%o*o*o\o%o\o\o*o%o\ov>v>v:>%ovoxoxoxtt
SM3J3MSI3J?j33jBJ3iBM3Mi3EM5MS13j3MSMSi3M
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 47 MILLIONS.
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG = 
EST ASSORTMENT
Florists and Decorators g
East End Store:Bell 5500 Highland P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:
Bell 1101 Court P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
*I*
f****ff*A
+**********
%*?*****f**4-
Tech Boys Attention !
You will want White Overalls and Jackets. 
They are 50 cents each.
Corduroy Pants, $1.50 and $2.00, for general 
wear.
*
IROQUOlBLO CKT^^
Where all the Tech men go. 
3614 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block.
SI3M3EI313MSI3M3EMS3I3MSJ3JSI3cilSiSJBlSJ& MclMclMt?
^^^:o>voovoowch:>oo'0'owo'owo^wcr^s  
MR. ADVERTISER
Do you really know the advertising 
value of a school paper? Do you 
realize that Carnegie Tech is the larg
est technical school in the United 
Statesnot going to be any more, but 
IS? Do ycu realize that 2500 students 
are enrolled hereenough to make a 
good sized town with no children or 
old people? Do you know that The 
Tartan is its only student paper and 
appears 36 times during the school 
year? Now, Mr. Advertiser, dont you 
think it would pay to let there young 
money spenders (three-fourths are 
men) know what you have to sell? For 
rates address
NORMAN BENEDICT
6117 KIRKWOOD STREET 
EAST END, PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IV, No. 3<T nil mi
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER G, 1909TEN CENTS
A. & J. SCHOOL OPENS
The day classes in the School for Apprentices and 
Journeymen were started at the Carnegie Technical 
Schools yesterday afternoon, the morning being given 
over to registration. A very large class entered and 
the indications are that the accommodations at the 
buildings will be strained to the utmost to care for 
this years students.
There is but one department at the Schools which 
has not yet been opened, namely, the night classes 
in the School for Apprentices and Journeymen, which 
opens on Monday evening, October 11th. Interviews 
for admission will be continued on Tuesday and Wed
nesday evenings of this week, October 5th and 6th, 
and on Thursday and Friday evenings the students 
will be registered.
A message of congratulation wras received from Di
rector Hamerschlag and was answered by a com
mittee of the class, consisting of Karl J. Kurz, Claude
E. Rentz and Henry W. Erskine.
The incoming classes were addressed by Dean 
Connelley in the Assembly Room at 1 oclock. Among 
other things Professor Connelley said, There are 
two important points which I should like to impress 
upon the minds of every one of you in beginning 
this years work. The first of these points is that 
all of you should, as much as possible, learn to 
appreciate the relation of your school work to your 
intended profession or calling, and to life in general. 
Each one of you should occasionally take the time
and care to look outside your books and appointed 
tasks and to endeavor to understand the bearing of 
your studies upon conditions around you. Mathe
matics, to the student who looks about him as I 
have suggested, becomes more than mere algebra, 
geometry and the likeit becomes an interesting 
branch of education and knowledge, brings the stu
dent into an appreciation of proportions and values, 
and tends to foster the spirit of cool calculation in 
all phases and conditions of life. Likewise, English, 
becomes more than a mere study of words, sentences, 
and paragraphsit becomes the medium of expres
sion through which great men and thinkers have 
given to us gems of thought as  beautiful as the 
worlds most precious jewels; it becomes the fountain 
of grace and eloquence and the guide to higher and 
nobler ideals of life. And so I might continue with 
each branch of our school work, for every one of 
them has a significance and an importance far be
yond the mere subject matter itself.
 The second point to which I referred above and 
one w7hich is just as important as is the broad view 
of your studies, may be summed up briefly in these 
words, Do your daily task daily, or, in other words, 
do each days lesson when it is best that that lesson 
should be done, which of course means today.
Remember that anything really worth having re
quires a struggle, and the mastery of your minds is 
surely worth having. The keynote to success is the

---------------------------------------------------

4THETARTAN
development of the mind. The student with the most 
brilliant brain may become the poorest student by 
losing control of his mind, while the student of 
mediocre brain often becomes the leader of his 
class because he has learned to master his mind and 
to get the most out of what his mind is capable of 
doing.
In addition to these two points, I should like each 
one of you to remember always that you are a part 
and parcel both of the Carnegie Technical Schools 
and of this great community in which we live. For 
this reason, character should be an integral part of 
your daily lives. The Carnegie Technical Schools 
have established a reputation for character and their 
students are known both near and far as young men 
of integrity, honesty and good morals. Keep before 
you always the fact that the Carnegie Technical 
Schools expect you to maintain the good name of the 
school, and that every deed you do during your life 
here reflects either for good or for bad upon the 
reputation of the whole school. Likewise the com
munity in which you live expects that its men of edu
cation especially should live nobly and above re
proach. Men have often been forgiven the faults 
they commit through ignorance, but the educated 
man or youth can seek for no such forgiveness; 
neither should be expect it, and I trust that none of 
you will ever need it.
Let these ideals be our watchwords, and their 
fulfillment our aims, and I shall feel that this even
ing I have extended the hand of welcome to young 
men who are worthy of the education they are about 
to receive.
THE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
One representative from each class of the Day 
School of Applied Science is to be elected to mem
bership of the Athletic Association, and these elec
tions should be held and representatives chosen im
mediately.
The School of Applied Science worked earnestly 
last year to have their representatives to the Athletic 
Association clothed with a certain amount of power, 
and no member should be chosen who is not peculiar
ly fitted to participate in the management of such 
an important branch of student activity.
The Constitution of the Athletic Association was 
adopted last year, and has never been tried out in 
either football or baseball.
There is a great deal of work to be done which 
is not apparent to the student at large, and the Ath
letic Association requires the earnest and unselfish 
support and the honest, intelligent criticism of every 
student, in order to fulfill the purpose for w'hich it 
was created.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To. insure getting the Tartan regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.
i APPLIED DESIGN $ .t t
On Thursday, September 29, a meeting of the 
School of Applied Design wTas held for the purpose of 
electing officers for the ensuing year. The following 
men were elected:
President, M. Jones; Vice President, J. L. Decker; 
Secretary, G. H. Krauss; Treasurer, A. G. Lamont; 
Tartan Representative, E. D. James; Historian, Gehron; Student SenateE. J. Hatcher (chairman), A.
G. Lamont, M. Jones, A. H. Gilkinson, E. D. James; 
Athletic AssociationE. J. Hatcher, J. L. Decker, F.
X. Keally, A. H. Gilkinson.
A new department in illustrating opened this term 
under the able leadership of Mr. Sparks. As the 
students improve, Mr. Sparks wants to take up new 
subjects with them,, and, by Christmas, hopes to have 
a life class.
This year the School of Applied Design has larger 
quarters owing to the removal of the Science men 
to their new biiilding. Nearly all the Plebe class in 
Architecture are in a room by themselves on the 
first floor. Upstairs the partitions of several rooms, 
among which is the old reading room, have been 
torn down, and a large room made for the Decorators 
and Illustrators. The modelling is now taught on 
the third floor of the A. and J. building instead of 
at the institute, as it was last year.
The following is the number of students in each 
of the departments of Applied Design: Architecture 
day 70, night 40; Decoratingday 16, night 7; 
illustratingday 10, night 4; totalday 96, night 51.
At a meeting of Applied Design it was decided that 
the freshmens caps should be red with a green 
button. The freshmen were allowred to choose the 
style of cap they wished, provided that all the caps 
were alike.
Thursday evening the Tech Architectural Club had 
its first meeting since school opened. Next Thurs
day afternoon at five oclock a meeting will be called 
for the purpose of electing officers for the ensuing 
year.
The first problem in Illustrating was entitled The 
Widows Mite. Out of twelve drawings in the com
petition, three received first mention. The rest each 
received mentions. The following received first men
tions: Miss Louise Miller, Miss Margaret Stone and 
Miss Eleanor Tener.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you cant 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
ATHLETICS
******oS
4,4,4s4*4,4,4*,,4,4*4,4,4,4,4,,,4,4,4,4Ms4'a,,,4*4,,,,,4,4,,t4,4,4,,|,,|,4,,|,4,,,4,,,4,4,4,,4c,l,,:lc4,,J,i4'4*4,'*'
FOOTBALL.
Tech opened her football season last Saturday by 
defeating Westminster College 12 to 0. This was 
sort of a surprise to Westminster as they had ex
pected to win from Tech by about the same score. 
Tech surprised everyone by their speed and had 
the New Wilmington boys beaten before they realized 
it. Westminster found great difficulty in handling 
Capt. Hittners long spirals and this as much as any
thing else kept them from being dangerous. Morris 
kicked oft' to Everhart, who returned 10 yards. West
minster failed to gain twice and kicked to Hittner, 
who ran it back 30 yards. Coldren circled left end 
to Westminsters four yard line. Two line bucks 
failed to put the pigskin over but on the third try 
Morris was shoved over for the first touchdown after 
about five minutes of play. Capt. Hittner punted out 
to Flick and then kicked an easy goal from place
ment. Soon after Flick got away and by some very 
clever open field dodging ran 80 yards for a touch
down. Hittner kicked goal. The half ended with the 
ball in the middle of the field. In the second half 
Westminster took a brace and held Tech even. Tech 
did not try any new plays but played straight foot
ball all the way. Westminster tried several forward 
passes but only one was dangerous. Westminster 
got the ball on a fumble and on the next play 
threw a forward pass to Techs 12 yard line. Capt. 
Hittner saved the day by leaping high in the air and 
intercepting the ball just as a Westminster man was 
about to catch it. All of our fellows showed up well 
and especially the backfield. The line will no doubt 
play better together when they get used to each 
other. Tech looks good for a winning team this year 
if none of our players sustain injuries.
WTaynesburg goes down next Saturday, fellows, 
and a larger crowd of students should be out.
The fellows did fine rooting under the leadership of 
Ray Light and Wagner. Line up of game.
Tech 12 Westminster 0
Taylor................................L. E. .............................Ashton
Morris...............................L. T............................Wiggins
Zerringer...........................L. C.............................Phillips
Lloyd..................................C.................I.......... Russel
Kime..................................R. G..............................Tallent
Marshal.............................R. T..........................Sturgeon
Dclan.................................R. E.............................Mansell
Hittner..............................Q. B..........................Everhard
Flick..................................L. H.............................Walker
Coldren..............................R. H.............................Grahan
Robinson...........................F. B............................Houston
TouchdownsMorris, Flick. GoalsHittner 2. 
RefereePiekarski, U. of P. UmpireBrumbaugh, 
Lehigh. Head linesmanProf. Reed. Halves20 
minutes.
BASEBALL
Fall baseball practice for new aspirants was held 
last Friday and about 25 candidates attended. Mr. 
Richard R. Guy, who coached last year, was out 
looking them over and was favorably impressed with 
some of them. McKinley, who played first base last 
year, had charge of them and he chose sides and 
played a practice game. If the weather warms up 
another practice will probably be held.
HOCKEY.
Robinson, who plays fullback on the varsity, has 
been elected manager of the hockey teams. He will 
no doubt schedule some good eastern colleges and 
possibly take an eastern trip through the holidays.
TRACK.
Capt. Charles wants all candidates out for cross 
country runs every day this week at five oclock. 
Notices have been posted to that effect so come to 
life and get out.
GLEE CLUB REHEARSALS.
Last Sunday, October 3, the Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs held their first rehearsal. The boys all turned 
out in a body, the candidates numbering in all, about 
fifty. This was a very good showing for the first 
day but nevertheless we want to see more on next 
Sunday, October 10th.
With the way things went last Sunday we have 
reason to be more than ever convinced that the com
ing season is to be more successful than any o those 
gone by.
Turn out next Sunday if you were not there at the 
first tryout and help us along.
JUNIOR CLASS MEETING.
The Junior Class held a meeting on Friday last 
and elected the following officers and representa
tives:
President, Bell; Vice President, Colwell; Secretary 
and Treasurer, Bright; Athletic Representative, McCorkle; Smoking Room Representative, Witte; Tar
tan Correspondent, Wallace.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
X *1 M. M. C. S. I
t * 
% j.'*** 4 +ili,. * . rilI, ,,,,,1, ^
There is no need to mention the affair of most im
portance this week in the M. M. C. S. Everybody 
knows already that the many shades of green seen 
there have excited a great deal of interest. Faculty 
and students have watched with amusement one after 
another of the Plebe girls appear with her little 
green bow. Of course there are a number of dif
ferent feelings connected with the wearing of the 
green, and while those not immediately concerned in 
the aifair do not like to take sides, it is easily seen 
that the strongest emotion felt is amusement.
The Juniors decided, not long ago, that the Plebes 
were having altogether too good a time, and were to 
be tormented a while in consequence. A day or 
two after this decision, the Plebes were informed that 
a green bow of ribbon was to be a part of each girls 
costume until Friday, the thirty-first. Now, as one 
girl expressed it, green is all the rage.
The Plebes dont seem to object in the least to 
their new orders. In fact, they consider it quite an 
honor to be able to wear a green ribbon. The fol
lowing is the general opinion of the Plebe class:
In most educational institutions it is very easy 
to pick out the Freshmen from the student body by 
their fresh, green look; but this is not the case in 
the M. M. C. S. The Freshmen are so intelligent 
and dignified looking that it is impossible for out
siders to distinguish them from the Juniors or 
Seniors. So, to save further trouble, the Freshmen 
have been requested to wear emerald green ribbon 
on their hair.
As long as the Plebes are satisfied, nobody else 
need complain.
Green bows aflutter everywhere,
The Freshmen brave wear on their hair.
They wear them now in spite of jibes,
For dont you see, the Junior Scribes 
Decreed the use of little bows,
For various reasons the dear knows,
But mostly for this one, I hear;
The Plebes did enter but this year,
And so they must be shown their place,
And let the Juniors set the pace.
Hence these pretty bows appear.
Very becoming to each, my dear.
Wear them until they wear out or fade,
Then your class record will be made.
Marguerite Law, 1910.
Miss Fisher: Give examples of nouns which change 
by a suffix to denote gender.
Miss Sawyer: Dutch and Duchess.
SENIOR CLASS ELECTIONS.
. Owing to an oversight of one of our Associate 
Editors, nothing apeared in last weeks Tartan 
regarding the Senior Class elections.
Heretofore it has been the custom for the Junior, 
Soph and Plebe Classes to elect officers for threemonth terms, and the Seniors to elect one set of 
officers to serve during the entire Senior year.
This question was not discussed by the Seniors, 
who met and elected officers on September 23. But 
if the present Senior Class decides to adhere to 
precedent, the political activities of one Hiram Neel, 
slatemaker, will come to an end.
The following officers were chosen: Oscar W. A. 
Oetting, president; Eugene B. Taggart, vice presi
dent; Hiram A. Neel, secretary; J. Clarence Hobbs, 
treasurer.
Carnegie Library really seems to be too small this 
year to satisfy all the students. Has anybody noticed 
how ten or twelve girls will come at one time for 
a certain book? It seems to be a case of first come, 
first served.
Miss Fisher: How are clauses classified?
Plebe: Subordinate and insubordinate.
It is feared by Ruth Dorans friends that she is 
becoming extremely near-sighted. The other day, 
while remodeling a table-snencer, she accidently 
sewed her nose in with the material.
English heard in Plebes Chemistry Laboratory, 
when a bottle of oxygen had to be removed from 
the stand.
Say, professor, that bottle will have to hike it, 
wont it?
Mr. Matthews is still loaded down with lunches. 
He will need an assistant before long.
CLUB-ROOM COMMITTEE.
We are not aware of the Juniors, Sophs or Plebes 
having chosen the representative to the Club-room 
Committee to which, each of the above named clases 
is entitled.
These representaives are to be appointed by the 
class presidents.
The Senior Class is entitled to two representatives 
and has chosen E. P. Poste and C. H. Schultz. Mr. 
Schultz served on the committee last year.
There is much wcrk to be done, and the commit
tee should be organized as soon as possible, in order 
that it may get busy and inaugurate some needed 
and apparent reforms and improvements.
At the University of California campus improve
ments are in order of the day. A $200,000 chemistry 
building, three new tennis courts, an ornamental 
drinking fountain and a memorial gate are in the 
process of construction.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
ONE HUNDRED YEARS OF THE MARINE ENGINE
Reminiscence and comparison were rife during the 
week of the Hudson-Fulton Celebration, and never 
were they more active, surely, than when that curi
ous marine craft, the Clermont, slowly crept, under 
the impulse of her antique engine, over the waters 
of New York Bay and the Hudson River.
In the Clermont engine, as in all the Watt en
gines of that day, the low steam pressure of four or 
five pounds above the atmosphere, was made nec
essary by the weakness of the copper boilers. The 
pressure being low, the condenser was, necessarily, 
of vital importance; yet the vacuum could scarcely be 
called satisfactory, for during the trial trip of the 
replica of the Clermont, we noticed that the 
vacuum stood at about 22 y2 inches. Wood was used 
for fuel; and probably the consumption per horse
power per hour was equivalent to not less than five 
or six pounds of coal.
The marine boiler and engine are greatly indebted 
to the activity of the Hudson River steamship build
ers for their early improvement. We know that com
pound engines were used on this river as early as 
1824, and that they showed satisfactory results. 
Furthermore, steam pressures of as high as 50 pounds 
to the square inch were used on the Hudson River 
long before the middle of the last century.
The marine engine made slower progress in ocean 
navigation than on the rivers, and particularly on 
the Hudson. The earliest transatlantic steamers, say 
of the period from 1845 to 1855, used boiler pressures 
of from 10 to 20 pounds to the square inch, and the 
approximate consumption of fuel was from 4 y2 to 
3% pounds per horse-power per hour. From 1855 to 
1865, when the paddle wheel gave place to the screw 
propeller, the approximate boiler pressures were 
from 20 to 35 pounds, and the consumption of fuel 
was reduced from 3% to 3 pounds per horse-power 
per hour. In the ten years, from 1865 to 1875, of the 
development of the transatlantic marine engine, the 
compound took the place of the simple engine, and 
steam pressures rose from 35 to 60 pounds, while 
fuel consumption was reduced from 3 pounds to 2.2 
pounds per hcrse-power per hour. With the introduc
tion of triple-expansion engines during the period 
from 1875 to 1885, the boiler pressures were doubled 
from 60 pounds to 125 pounds, and the approximate 
consumption was reduced from 2.2 to 1.9 pounds per 
horsepower per hour. Then, in that notable period 
from 1885 to 1895, came the twin-screw quadrupleexpansion engine', with boilers using forced draft and 
carrying pressures of from 125 to 225 pounds per 
square inch. The resultant economies were remark
able, the fuel consumption per horse-power per hour 
falling from 1.9 to 1.4 pounds per horse-power per 
hour.
Then came the most radical improvement in the 
marine engine in all the hundred years since the days 
of Fulton, when Parsons introduced the steam tur
bine, whose advantages ultimately proved to lie not 
so much in a further reduction of fuel economy, as 
in economies of weight, engine room space, consump
tion of oil, the great reduction of the cost of re
pairs and general up-keep, and above all in a great 
increasing cf speed. Strange to say, boiler pressures, 
which had been mounting steadily upward, fell from 
the maximum of 225 pounds, as used with multipleexpansion engines, to about 150 or 160 pounds, which 
was found to be the most economical pressure for a 
turbine. The fuel consumption in high-speed turbine 
vessels is approximately the same as that of the very 
best reciprocating engines using all the modern con
trivances of forced draft, superheaters, etc. Such are 
the conditions which obtained during the period 
from 1895 to 1905.
The present decade is being devoted to the de
velopment of the marine turbine, by the removal of 
certain defects, which at present seriously limit its 
usefulness. As matters now stand, the turbine drive 
gives its best results only when applied to com
paratively high-speed vessels, and when they are 
driven at their maximum power. As the speed de
creases, there is a loss of efficiency. Furthermore, 
the economical speed for the propeller is an un
economical speed for the turbine. The present de
velopment is in the direction of combining the 
reciprocating engine with the turbine, using the form
er for the higher ranges of expansion and the turbine 
for the lower ranges. This combination gives an 
engine which can run economically at a low or cruis
ing speed; that can reverse; and that can show as 
good economy on a cargo steamer as an all-turbine 
engine on a high-speed vessel.
Figures have recently become available of the first 
ocean-going installation of this kind, which was 
placed in thecargo steamship Otaki. Since her 
delivery in November, 1908, this ship has completed 
a voyage to New Zealand and back. She is a sister 
ship, except in her engines, to two other vessels, the 
Orari and Opawa, fitted with reciprocating en
gines. The Otaki is driven by two sets of triple
expansion reciprocating engines, one on each wing 
propeller, and a low-pressure turbine driving a 
center propeller.
A comparison of the relative performance of the 
two ships shows that at the full-speed trial, the 
Otaki developed 5,880 horse-power, as against 5,350 
horse-power shown by the Orari. Her coal concumption between Liverpool and Teneriffe was 11 
per cent, less when steaming under similar condi
tions and at practically the same speed. A compari
son of the coal consumption for the whole of the 
voyage shows a gain for the Otaki of 8 per cent., 
or 590 tons of coal. The engines made a non-stop run 
from Teneriffe to New Zealand of 11,669 miles. The 
coal consumption, cn the run from the Clyde to 
Liverpool at about half the power, worked out at
1,387 pounds per horse-pcwer for all purposesa 
most satisfactory result.
In the steam turbine we have apparently reached 
the limit of efficiency in the history of the steam 
marine engine. The indications are that the develop
ments of the future will be in the direction of an 
internal-combustion engine, using either oil or pro
ducer gas.Scientific American.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-In-Chief. 
Howard P. Mason, 10'.Sporting Editor. 
Donald D. Mitchell, Associate Editor. 
Eugene B. Taggart, Associate Editor. 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.Associate 
Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ..................................................... $2.00
Single Copy ..........................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Sifii
Alfreii p. Jffnllansb^
of (ibrrlttt, (JDljtn 
At tlje iHmg QDrtubrr o, 19110
Mr. Follansbee was taken to the hospital 
Tuesday night, as soon as his case had been 
diagnosed pneumonia. He showed signs of 
improvement the first few days and the end 
came suddenly. The funeral services were held 
at his home in Oberlin, Tuesday. Messrs. Mc
Corkle, Ketter, Wentworth, Decker, Beeken, 
and Holliday acted as pallbearers, all being 
members of the same fraternity, Sigma Tau.
There is no Death; what seems so is but the 
transition,
Into the life Elysian whose portal we call 
Death.
Longfellow.
It is a deplorable condition of things that makes a 
rebuke to the student body necessary after the first 
game of the season. Judging by the sparce attend
ance at the game, when compared to what it might 
be with a little co-operation on the part of every 
student in the schools it is quite evident that we 
still have the old don't care crowrd with us. We had 
it last year, and we are very sorry there are any 
men in Carnegie Tech now who have not the interest 
of her activities at heart to do the least thing pos
sible to help along. It is about time over half the 
Tech men bumped their heads and woke up to a
realization of the fact that this is no Hgh School, 
and that the support of every man is necessary to 
carry on activities. Next Saturdays football game 
will be an excellent opportunity to have a grand com
ing to life.
$10COVER COMPETITION$10
In a recent number of The Tartan we announced 
a prize of $5.00 for the best cover design submitted 
to before October 14. Since the first announcement 
the Park Bank offer an additional $5.00 to be added 
to the amount of the prize. The drawings are to be 
made twice the dimentions of the present cover as 
they are to be reduced in the process of reproduc
tion. Higgins or equally black ink must be used on 
good paper and no drawing requiring a half tone 
reproduction will be considered. The judgment will 
be made by a jury composed of members of the 
faculty of the School of Applied Design acting with 
the editors of this paper. Three cheers for the Park 
Bank!
PITTSBURG FOUNDREYMENS ASSOCIATION.
The second monthly meeting of the Pittsburg 
Foundreymens Association for the year was held in 
the Schools Tuesday evening. Mr. Edgar A. Custer, 
President of the Tacony Iron Co., delivered the ad
dress of the evening on Permanent Moulds. Mr. 
Custers talk was well illustrated by lantern views 
and concluded with moving pictures taken of the 
process of making castings with the type of moulds 
under discussion. After the conclusion of the lec
ture, the assemblage adjourned to the School Foun
dry and witnessed a practical demonstration of the 
moulds made by Mr. Dosey.
About 220 men were present at the meeting among 
whom were: Mr. Jos. T. Speer, President of the As
sociation and connected with the Pittsburg Valve 
Foundry and Construction Co.; Mr. J. S. Seaman, 
of the Seaman-Sleeth Co.; Mr. John McLauren, Mr.
F. H. Zimmers of the Union Foundry and Machine 
Co., and a great number of others. The next meeting 
of the Association to be held in the Schools will 
take place January 3rd, and the subject will be 
Foundry Lighting.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the Tartan regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now'. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
STUDENT MEETING.WHEN ORDERING MOTORS
The entire student body of the day school of Ap
plied Science met on Wednesday morning together 
with the students of the day school of Applied 
Design for the purpose of arousing enthusiasm and 
practicing cheers for last Saturdays game. Presi
dent Oetting of the Senior Class called the meeting 
to order and acted as chairman, and H. A. Neel 
acted as secretary. It was stated early in the meet
ing that it would be necessary to select a name 
for the new Field in the near future. After discussion 
several names were suggested and Leeds Field re
ceived the largest number of votes and is therefore 
the suggestion of the classes participating in the 
meeting for the name of the field. It will be eventual
ly decided when the ether classes are consulted and 
the approval of the board of Trustees is given to the 
name finally suggested to them as the selection of 
the student body. Mr. Leeds was brought into the 
meeting and after being heartily cheered made a 
polite speech of thanks. A vote of thanks was ex
tended to Mr. Percy Reed of the Civil Engineering 
Department, who superintended the grading of the 
field and the placing of the stand.
R. W. Light was elected to serve as cheer leader 
and Wagner and Hecker are1 his assistants.
SOPH MEETING.
At a meeting of the Sophomore class held during 
the week it was decided to make the loan of $100 
which that class made to the Athletic Association last 
year, a gift to the Association. This action would be 
well for other classes and individuals to imitate, as 
it will place the Athletic Association on a firmer 
footing for the coming year.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the Tartan regularly during 
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for 
the year. See the business manager.
To many people a motor is a motor and in order
ing one from the manufacturer they frequently give 
little information other than the horsepower required. 
As a consquence there is much unnecessary corre
spondence and delay. It is well to bear in mind, 
therefore, that the information given can hardly be 
too explicit. Let the manufacturer know in the be
ginning exactly what it is that you want.
In the first place he must know whether it is a 
direct or alternating current motor that you require. 
This of course depends upon the nature of the cur
rent that you have available. Then he must know 
the voltage of the circuit, whether alternating or di
rect, and the number of horsepower required. If 
it is an alternating current motor give the frequency 
of the alternations in cycles per second, also whether 
it is to run in one, two or three phases of the cur
rent. The above data as to voltage, kind of current, 
frequency, etc., you can obtain from the lighting 
company which supplies ycur current.
The above are the fundamentals, but there is other 
information which it is well to give the manufacturer. 
Tell him the nature of the machine which your motor 
is to run; what the speed of the machine is to be 
and the size of its pulley (in order to determine the 
speed and size of motor pulley). Explain the nature 
of the location of the motor, whether in a wet or 
dry place, whether well ventilated or confined, etc. 
Also, if the motor must be confined in close quarters 
give the dimensions of the space available. Motors 
have been shipped which could not be used because 
of insufficient room. Also tell whether the motor is 
to run steadily on full or partial load.
If there is anything special about the service 
be sure and explain it. For instance, if a very 
heavy torque or turning power is required to start 
the machine as compared with the running power.
If it is desirable that the motor have automatic 
starting and stopping devices mention the fact and 
the manufacturer, knowing the conditions of the ser
vice, will be able to suggest appliances for doing this. 
Popular Electricity.
-------HIGH LOW--------
Jack and the Game
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENERS
6227 Penn FAST FND6222 Frankstown

---------------------------------------------------

10T HE TART A N
GET STARTED------
RIGHT FOR FUTURE COMFORT AND HAPPINESSOPEN A BANK ACCOUNT
WITH THE
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
Capital, $200,000.00 Surplus, $125,000.00
I PERTINENT |
! AND I
$ IMPERTINENT f
4* *i*
We used to hear that the Eskimos ate such quanti
ties of fish that the fish-bones stuck through their 
skins, thereby riveting their clothes to the Huskys 
bodies. In view of this fact, the effect of the two 
barrels of gum-drops devoured by Dr. Cooks com
panions is interesting to contemplate.
Mr. Smith our new geology instructor, almost 
established a precedent the other day, when he 
said, The deposits of Titanifecous Magnetite in the 
Adirondacks is an example of the formation, by 
magnatic segregation, of primary minerals in igneous 
rocks.
Numerous original suggestions 
christen the new field Wm. P.
were made to
Some of the Sophomores made an attempt to dis
franchise the Plebes just before the vote on naming 
the field was taken. The attempt was unsuccessful 
but it might have been worse.
Doleful Bill Wagner ought to make a good cheer
leader, being accustomed to hearing the brakeman 
yell Carnegie! Carnegie!
it. L. Smith called on some of his Tech friends 
Sunday night. Smith is employed as transitman on 
an engineering corps at Washington, Pa.
Mr. DentonAbout the size of a copper lead pencil.
Mr. Smith and the Soph. Civils had an exciting 
time Tuesday while out on a geological expedition. 
During the examination of the granite composing the 
Magee statute in the park, Fatty becoming suspicious 
appeared on the scene and was on the point of send
ing in a call for the funny wagon when the crowd 
took out magnifying glasses and leisurely proceeded 
to look the stone over. Rex is responsible for the 
appearance of the police.
Saturdays game seemed like a reunion of the class 
of 09. About thirty were present.
More than 200 Industrials, the largest class on 
record, registered on Monday and more are coming.
Mr. Donald D. Naismith is now engaged in running 
a political newspaper advocating his side of the 
story.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the Tartan regularly during 
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for 
the year. See the business manager.
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
COURT DERBY
TECH-NEGIE
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT
Otto 0etting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANli
TRANSFORMATION.
Days are gone since life was like a dream, 
Woodlands seldom thrill my heart with love. 
Song gives up its place to grinding wheels;
Mechanics guide instead of stars above,
And science rules my souls directed stream.
Farmland dreams have ceased to charm my mood, 
Sacred trails grow dim in shady bowers.
Fields cnce green are now enchanted moors;
Thoughts forsake the worship of the flames,
And kneal in irons to praise scientific food.
Such must be, thou cruelsome is the weight.
Life has changed, for mighty is a throng. 
Gold-dust seems to rule instead of strength.
Days of yore have passed away in song,
And thus we live as peasants chained to fate.
John Stone.
Following in the paths of several of the leading 
colleges of the country, Trinity College has sub
stituted a foot-ball rush in place of the so-called 
push rush of former years. A foot-ball is placed 
in the center of the foot-ball field, the sophomores 
lining lip under one goal post and the freshmen 
under the other. At a given signal both classes 
rush for the ball, the class having possession of it at 
the end of a stated period being declared the winners.
New rules concerning absences have been adopted 
at Princeton this year by which danger of over-cuting will be practically eliminated. By this system 
in which an instructor must turn in all cuts not 
later than the day following the taking of the cut, 
every student knows just where he stands. All ap
plications for cuts to be execused, such as those 
taken by athletic teams, the musical clubs, etc., 
must be made before the cut is taken.
The University of Minnesota co-eds, being dis 
satisfied with the existing arrangement of athletics 
for girls, struck, and have organized an athletic as
sociation for their ownselves. One of the aims of 
the association is to work for a girls gymnasium.
The Freshmen of Lehigh scored a victory over 
the Sophomores by gaining admission to Saucon 
Hall by means of a fine escape. The Sophs were 
defending the doors in an effort to pre /ent the Fresh
men from having a meeting.
Dr. Frederick A. Cook, the Arctic explorer, de
livered a lecture at Boston last wreek.
We congratulate The Tech of Boston Tech on 
the excellence of the first two numbers issued as a 
daily. Just wait until The Tartan is 29 years 
old!
MR.ARDV ETIISR MRR.SI S
w. Dealers in 
? BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND ?
? COFFEE ?
S 3714 FORBES STREET 5^ Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley ^
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXSXS XXXXXX 
The Standard of Excellence
M acDonalds
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice CreamFancy BoxesBaskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
%X%X%%XXXX%%\X%XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
 Manheim Slide Rules5, 8, 10, 16 and 20- 
^ inch Duplex Polyhase, Log, Log-slide Rules, 
Circular Calculators, Halden Calculex.
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279.
XXXXXX$>XX\%XXXX%%X%XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
| Well Pressed is Well Dressed I
0 LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. *
0 301 South Craig Street ** a
0*0*04<0*04<0*0*04<*04<tt<*Kt4<^0*0*
O%0\0%0%0%0%O%0%0S0%O\0\0V0*0N0%0%0*
1 R. W. MEDICK I
MEATS ANDS CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
3804 Forbes Street Both Phones 0
*0*0\0%0*0*0%O*0%0\0*0*O%0\0*0*0\0%0
0*i*0,,0*I'0,*0f0*fr00*i0*i0'i00*0=O<i0*0*'O*i0&0 GOOD THINGS TO EAT
^ at the Pure Food Stores of
1 GEO. K. STEVENSON  CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Higland and Center 
East End
*O*O*0*0*0*0*0*O*0*0*O*0*O4*0*0*0*O4*0
R0\w AUDITORIUM Skating
MIT HTFM ELDDR4 F09MTF 9AV 
NUFOC OA MIT FM9MT.
2.000 Pair Skates. . ;25,000 Sq. Ft. Surfac*
Clw. Hwler esr Lewfacw 9ic.
1SP IuSPblPi shedW
THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
g ZE=>. LUDEBXJEHL 63 SOU |$ PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. |
* The New Creation for Men p
| TAN VIKING CALF Button and Blcher t
| $4.00 and $5.00 the pair 
*M R. LEEDS MAKES WONDERFUL DISCOVERY.
C. C. Leeds, Esq., late of Old Forge, or was it 
Valley Forge, reports his discovery of an entirely 
new fish specie, namely a trained and performing 
land-agent fish. The discovery of this wonderful 
creation of nature was in a way accidental with Mr. 
Leeds, but to him alone belongs the entire credit of 
placing it before the waiting world. Mr. Leeds has 
given his entire summer for the past three years 
to the study of this fish and has just about decided 
that he is fully qualified to speak his mind upon 
the subject, a thing that up to the present he has 
steadfastly refused to do.
It all came about in this manner: Mr. Leeds
happened to land at Valley Forgeor is it old Forge 
anyway, he happened to land there in his hunt for 
the simple life. He called one of the natives (white 
plus exposure) and asked if there happened to be 
any fish in the river nearby. The native responded 
that there was and that he would be only too glad 
to take Mr. Leeds out in the morning and show him. 
So in the morning Mr. Leeds and his nativenot 
his native state, which is Ohio, but the man who 
was white oncewalked over to the river. There in 
plain sight lay a monster fish which appeared to 
be of the trout variety. Mr. Leeds grew very much 
excited and chased the fish upstream and downstream, 
for fully three-quarters of one hour. Finally the fish 
became tired of being chased, leaped into the air, 
winked its right eye at the native, and disappeared 
downstream. That settled Mr. Leeds. He bought a 
place right on the bank of that self same stream in 
order to study that fish first hand, so to say.
Three summers have come and gone and Mr. 
Leeds has always been faithful to his duty. He 
writes to his native early each spring and tells what 
time he will arrive at the Forget whatever kind of a 
forge it may be. The native, now caretaker of Sans 
Souci, winks his right eye, walks down-stream to a 
certain deep pool and there spits three times upon 
the water in a certain place. Then there rises to 
the surface this wonderful fish which, upon seeing 
the native, winks its right eye and slowly swims up
stream towards Mr. Leeds camp. There it awaits 
his arrival, sure in the fact that it will be studied 
with a zeal unbound. When Mr. Leeds throws bait 
upon, or in, the water this remarkable fish will 
swim around it, smell of it, do everything in fact 
but take it properly. When it sees that Mr. Leeds 
is becoming tired of taking such routine data it will 
take the line and give it a good stout tug, thus nearly
causing the death of our Mr. Leeds by heart failure. 
Just as to what Mr. Leeds ultimate intentions are in 
regard to this fish we can only conjecture.. It has 
been said however that he will tie it to a tree in 
the front of his camp . for more prolonged and 
detailed observations, eventually turning it over to 
the Athletic Association.
'"Editors NoteWe cannot be held responsible for 
the facts in this article We know that the fish 
exists, for Mr. Leeds has so told us, and we believe 
that the facts as stated are true, as our source is 
most accurate in everything.
ARCHITECTS ON THE JOB.
Following the remark made by Mr. C. C. Leeds, 
that the sign board on the Field had been blown 
down and they were unable to get men enough over 
there to lift it back into place again, the Architects 
decided to do the work. Thursdary morning they 
went to the Field thirteen strong, and under the 
leadership of Hatcher soon had things on the run. 
Beside making a good job of placing the large board, 
a minature battle was fought on the way back. Those 
taking part in the most laudable affair were Hatcher, 
Schaub, Lamont, Gleekler, Gehron, Raguere, Bolton, 
Seidner, Hays, Dunn, Rigaumont, Dolly Hasness, 
and Dickey Fleming. Hooray for the Architects.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the Tartan regularly during 
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for 
the year. See the business manager.
I The Park Bank
Pittsburgh
DO YOU EXPECT TO SUCCEED?
SURETh en open an account in the
If! Park Bank. 
**
*
*
*4*
J. S. SWARTZ, Cashier.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
CAMPUS NOTES &
Records of College Expense can 
be kept with ease in a
McCLOYS
SCHOOL oSM COLLEGE 
EXPENSE BOOK
ENOUGH PAGES TO LAST
THROUGHOUT A FOUR
YEARS COLLEGE COURSE
Green Velum de Luxe Binding
LEAF S'/I. X II
$1 per copy, $1.35 post-paid everywhere.
McCLOYS ITeailquarters for scliool supplies 
642-4-6 AESRIY RVS.
hats and caps
All the new rakish shapes for College Men, 
in the season's many new colorssoft Felt Hats, 
Blue, Grey, Green, Tan, etc.$i.oo, $1.50 and 
$2.00.
New Caps, assorted styles and colors, includ
ing the new Plaids, 25c to $2.00.
Fancy Hat Bands, 25c and 50c.
THE SPALDING
TRADEMARK
435-437 Wood Street
FOOT BALL 
BASKET BALL 
GOLF! The S. Hamilton Co. 1
Requisites for these games and all other in
door and outdoor sports and athletics.
Spaldings line; enough said.
Catalogs on demand.
Henricis Book Store
NEAR EAST END POSTOFFICE
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
PITTSBURG, PA
Q 
i ****^*^* ******|
t Pittsburgh, Pa. $
* CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND * 
| DANCES.~ f% Phone 248 Schenley. |
p\O%OVO*O%O\D%O\O*0\OVONO%ONO\O*.ON0^
&S OSWALD WERNER S. SONS CO. 
8 Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and 
Cleaning Works ^
j* City Office631 Penn Avenue &
'f, East End OfficeS. Highland Ave. & Baum St. p
A. W. SMITH CO
PToWsts
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es 
tablishment in America.
Represented in all large cities
KEENAN BUILDING
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
A BRIDGE AND A QUESTION.
A Harvard alumnus has offered to replace with a 
monumental structure the forlorn old bridge that now 
connects the Stadium with the portion of Cambridge 
in which are the university buildings. Among the 
gifts of current news this one stands out, not so much 
for princely proportions as for its unusual character. 
For a bridge is normally a public work, and rich 
Americans have as yet included in their philan
thropies few public structures other than libraries. 
If to any considerable extent monumental bridges 
should come to be included, a great change would 
be wrought in the aspect of our cities and towns. 
And there is much to be said for the bridges as a 
monument. What else is more strictly useful, makes 
more general appeal, more strikingly dominates its 
site, or has better chance for permanency? The 
proposed Stadium bridge for Harvard has led to a 
discussion only a little less interesting than the 
proffered gift itself. This is over the question of 
the future use of the Charles River below the dam 
at Watertown. * The fine new West Boston bridge 
contains no draw, so that the river is closed now to 
masted traffic; and recently nearly all the shore
line on either bank has been taken over for public 
use, in parks and drives and promenades. The river 
already contains probably more canoes and motor 
boats than any other like body of water in the United 
States. Only one transportation interest now uses 
it for freight, and that carries 15,000 tons of coal a 
year to an abattoir at Brighton. To put a draw in 
the bridge, or to raise it enoughsome 26 feetto 
allow the barges to go beneath it, would be a high 
price to pay for this one serviceand as nearly all 
the other abattoirs are now concentrated over in East 
Cambridge, where they are a less general nuisance, 
it may be that the Brighton one will voluntarily move 
away before long. Yet, at this time of reviving 
interest in water navigation, to close, with a low and 
drawless bridge, this part of a citys great waterway 
to freight traffic, seems a radical step. That the 
step is proposed and very earnestly advocated, is 
significant of a striking change from the old theory 
of city development. It used to be everything for 
business. Now life comes first, and even the joy 
of living presses hard!rihe Architectural Record.
TX\e Ee st" Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST. *
 OAKLAND 2
* WHITE OVERALLS %
n for the Tech Studentsall sizes. ;j;
O $1-C0 A SUIT *
^ Best Garments Made. ^
SERVEmm
ICECREAM
AT YOUR 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
3618 Forbes St.
? REYMERS CANDIES j*
* * The demand today is for absolute purity in 
^ the luxuries as well as the necessities of 
^ life.
^ Reymers Candy Is Pure
WORD FROM THE DIRECTOR.
Dr. and Mrs. Hamerschlag have sent a message 
to the field committee expressing their regret at not 
being able to be present at the opening of the Field, 
which was dedicated Saturday to amateur sport; 
to Coach Snitjer and Captain Hittner and best wishes 
for the team. The game, I know, will be a clean, 
hot fought contest, and I wish so much I could see 
it.
8Football practice every afternoon 3.30==
6.00. All candidates report immediately as 
the first game is only three days off.8

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAX15
C*C^C^C*C^0*0*0*O4<^O*0*0*0*O*0*O*0*
<* 0 * * 
$ * 0 * s 
8  g  $ 
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Cleaners and 
Dyers
V *0 $*O **0 ?

jf 6C8 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg
S  *0 ***
61C2 Penn Avenue, East Liberty 
Both Phenes.
''^^?4*O*!'O4,^k4C>4*<t!O40*>O404,04*04,04^>&0^O40 
0^4*0^*0*&04O*04<Hl*0*:*0*J*0^C^0i<l..^4<^<^>;-0 A
 JACQUES
 DANCING ACADEMY
$ COR CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
2 PITTSBURG, PA.
 Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY 
SATURDAY
Private Lessons Daily
AND
* 004^*0t!04*0i<''04*0i0#0--0i.0:.0K^^O;4-04*0*04>
m\N%mNNVN^V\\\\\\WSW^N^J _ 8*?s?
I?**/8
KAERCHER S DRUG STORE
H. R. Scott, Manager
Drugs, Cigars, Soda Water, Stationery, Post 
Cards, Etc., Etc.
PRESCRIPTIONS
Full Line of Fancy Smokings
Cor. Craig and Forbes St. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Phones: Bell 1456 Schenley 
P. & A. 303 Park.2 /
^**0*40Vfr0*,ls0^,i'0%,S,0*,i,0N,*'0V>0VI,0%,l*0% tt p0 m
00 Do You Know e &W, that we print more books than any firm in 0
|3 the East End?..............................................
O Do You Know ^that our Programs, Topic Cards and leaflets 
0 elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine Print^5  8
 Do You Know gH that we are prompt, and that an order for a S
5 dollar receives as much care and attention 
6 as one for a hundred dollars?...................... b.S If you are fastidious, if you require prompt g
 and efficient service, come to......................
'* SPAHR & RITSCHER,
0 6117 Kirkwood St., East End. W>
1\0%0%0.%0%0%0S0\0\0\0%0%0%0%0%0X0%0^0
I0
WHERE THE BUNCH GOES
TECH BARBER SHOP
THIS TONSORIAL PARLOR HAS BECOMT THE MECCA FOR TECH 
STUDENTS WHO WANT PARTICULAR WORKGOOD, UP-TO-DATE SERVICE 
STRICTLY SANITARY SHOPCOMPETENT WORKMEN WHO KNOW HOW 
TO GIVE THE FINISHING TOUCHES TO THE STUDENTS TOILET
LATES STYLE HAIR-CUTS FOR THE STUDENT WHO WANTS TO BE 
RIGHT UP-TO-THE-MINUTE
ONE OF OUR FAMOUS FACE MASSAGES WILL TAKE AWAY THAT 
AFTER-EXAM HEADACHE. TRY IT
BEGIN THE SCHOOL YEAR RIGHT BY GOING WHERE THE BUNCH 
GOESTO
THE TECH BARBER SHOP
H. F. VAN CUREN, PROP.COR. CRAIG & FORBES

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
aUc|U5IU5IU5IU5llJ5W^Dfl^^anlanJanianlsrOc
WHAT DO YOU WANT? 
QUALITY OR QUANTITY!
Advertising is just like eating: it is 
not the quantity you eat; its the qual
ity that gives the nourishment to our 
body.
THE TARTAN
is a paper of quality, and, therefore, is 
the best place to advertise. With
2,500 readers, among a class of men 
and women who know, and that have 
the money to spend,
ADVERTISE
in the TARTAN, and you will read
ily see the real value of a school paper. 
For rates, address
NORMAN BENEDICT, Adv. Mgr., 
6117 Kirkwood St., E. E.
lue
ILE
