TARTAN 
STAFF MEETING 
THURSDAY 4:30hr (Jaran
BASKET BALL 
TECH vs DUQUESNE 
GYM TONIGHT
VOL. XIV. No. 18.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.
E INFORMATION 
AND COMMITTEES FOR 
EROLIC OF THE VANITIES
The Frolic of the Vanities is the 
revival of the well-known series of 
brilliant costume dances held annual
ly, before the war, by the students 
of the Division of "the Arts. While 
the spirit of these affairs was in a 
measure expressed during the years of 
1917 and 1918, nothing of the present 
scale has been attempted since the 
Slavonic Ball in 1916. It will be our 
effort this year to represent the true 
artistic impulse and free spirit of our 
student body. Here will be offered 
a remarkable opportunity for original 
expression of those artistic vanities 
and desires which in everyday life we 
are so seldom able to display. Hence 
this event may be properly consider
ed the most important date on the 
calendar of the Division of the Arts.
Admission:Only registered stu
dents of the Division of Arts and its 
Olumni will-be adimtted. The Alumni 
include, beside those who have grad
uated, anyone of the Division of the 
Arts for a period of not less than a 
year.
Passes:Admission to the building 
on the night of the Ball will be by a 
pass showing the bearers name and 
the signature of the secretary of the 
student body. Passes will be issued 
to the students at any time before 
five oclock of the day of the Ball up
on presentation to the secretary by 
the applicant of a treasurers receipt 
showing the payment of yearly dues 
of $1.50, which are assessed against 
all students and, payable in advance. 
Mr. Ralph Crosby is treasurer and 
only receipts signed by him or his au
thorized deputies will be accepted by 
the secretary as earnest payment of 
dues. Dues should be paid not later 
than February 27. Similar dues of 
the same amount are assessed against 
alumni. The alumni desiring to at
tend the ball should respond at once 
and send their dues directly to the 
secretary not later than February 20. 
who will then mail them a pass for 
the ball. In case the alumnus posseses a wife or a husband that is not 
an alumnus of the jschool, passes will ~Te''issued" t'tlm notwtlstnding, 
provided the requisite dues are paid.
Costumes:This year, as in former 
year, one of the strictest require
ments of the Ball is that everyone 
come in costume that will add to and 
fit in with the spirit of the revel. 
Frolic of the Vanities should at once 
suggest to every fruitful imagination 
an array that will bring to light some 
hidden charm or vanity. Let your 
conscience be your guide, as the sub(Continued on page 4.)----------------------
ARTS PLEBES SPIRIT AWAY 
SOPH AND INCITE A RIOT 
BEFORE SOPHS BANQUET
Pandemonium reigned absolutism 
within the ranks of the Sophomore 
Design class last Tuesday afternoon, 
when they learned that C. A. (Spider) 
Lake, the toastmaster for the banquet 
which they were planning to hold that 
night at the Fort Pitt, had been ab
ducted by the Plebe architects. Lake 
was captured by the freshmen in the 
main foyer of Design, shortly before 
noon, and after a tussle which does 
him credit, was tied, put into a wait
ing machine and carried to a building 
on Bigelow Boulevard, near the 
Bloomfield Bridge, where he was held 
until after midnight.
About one oclock, some one found 
the car of one of the instigators of 
the outrage in front of the Woodlawn Avenue entrance to Design.. 
They disconnected the ignition sys
tem ancl drained the radiator in hopes 
of cutting off the escape of their in
tended victim. However, in some 
manner he learned of their activities 
on his behalf and made good his es
cape. Two garage mechanics return
ed to reclaim the car, one of the more 
wily sophs having, in the meanwhile, 
secreted himself beneath the robes in 
the rear of the machine, with the 
hopes that he would be carried to the 
plebes cache. But fate played against 
the upperclassmen for the second time 
and they accordinly reaped their cha
grin. The Gar never went near the 
much-sought-for hiding place.
When the Sophomores found that 
they had been outwitted instead of 
submitting or continuing with the 
give and take that characterizes all 
good sportmanship, they proceeded to 
give vent to their disappointment by 
the sink, which had an impetus of 
bathers. The plebes in the  lower 
drafting room were locked in, and 
those who failed to go out by the 
window, went thru a minature reign 
of terror.
Nevertheless, the banquet came off 
as planned and was a huge success, 
as far as that may be possible without 
a toastmaster. Jazz music furnish
ed by a classy orchestra and some
thing not stated on the menu cards 
kept the sophs in high spirits through
out the evening.
PLANS FOR LARGEST PROM NOW COMPLETE
On the evening of February 20 at 
the Schenley Hotel the Junior class 
will hold the biggest social event in 
its history, the Junior Prom. This will 
be the thirteenth annual Prom held in 
the history of Tech and from reports 
from the committee promises to out 
shine all previous affairs. Everything 
is being done to make the evening 
one never-to-be-forgotten event.
The grand march will start prompt
ly at 9:15 at which time the programs 
will be given out. From that moment 
on till the last strains of the Home 
Waltz die away at two a. m. there will 
not be one dull moment. The com
mittee asks that every one get there 
promptly at nine so that the program 
of dances and entertainment may be 
completed by two. It is impossible to .run , the .affair anyla tor because ot 
city ordinances against it and because 
the hotel will not give us the privil
eges of the ball room after that hour. 
The committee also wishes that no 
flowers be sent to the girls and takes 
this opportunity to ask all the men 
to carry out this as a custom. It is 
felt that the affair should be kept 
down in expense as much as possible 
to be in harmony with the spirit of 
the school and this is one way of 
eliminating unnecessary expenditure.
The final tickets for the Prom are 
now on sale by the committee and 
section representatives at five dollars 
and fifty cents. If you have a pre
liminary ticket you should get it ex
changed at once. There is only a lim
ited number of these final tickets 
which is slightly over that necessary 
to take care of those who bought the 
preliminary tickets. If you still want 
to come and you have not bought a 
ticket you should do so today for 
when these are sold you will not be 
able to go as it will be too late to in
crease the orders for programs and 
favors.
There has been no thought as yet 
of postponing the Prom. Rumor has 
it that it will but there, is not the 
slightest possibility of its postpone
ment.
GIRLS DORMS SERENADED 
BY BOYS FROM EAST DORM
Last Monday night, amid the cheers 
of the girls of Woodlawn Avenue 
Dormitories, the East Dorm Glee Club 
gleed for the first time. They sang 
very well considering that they had 
never had a reharsal. The concert 
or rather, the trouble started when 
President Fox suggested that some of 
the fellows go over to the gym after 
the Dorm meeting and recover the 
long lost Dorm piano. So they went 
to the gym, carried the piano to the 
sidewalk, and then' ah!nobody 
knows just who suggested the rum
pus, nevertheless some one did, and all 
hands pushed the piano to the first 
girls Dorm, gave a few songs and a 
couple of yells, and moved on to the 
next. The noiseI beg your pardon ! 
the music brought many beautiful 
colds to the window, some with ukes, 
some with banjos, but all in nighties 
and slippers. They deserve much of 
the credit since they so nobly aided 
our wandering troubadours. Then the 
party got rough. Some little Plebe 
jumped to the top of the piano and 
started to shimmie causing the 
Maggies to do likewise, and the party 
to break up! Only one casulty was 
sustained. A third floor fellow, in 
order to chow his apprciation of 
good music threw a bucket of cold 
water down on the returning musi
cians, catching one of the fellows on 
the back. Immediately the vengeful 
mob stampeded to the third floor 
several moans were audiblethen 
quiet. The dorm slept in peace.
Musical Clubs Start Soon
On Seasons Larged Tour
Success Met With at Every Concert Given
To Appear at Erie. Youngstown and Akron.
Every year the members of both the 
Manolin and Glee Clubs look forward 
to the big feature trip of the year. 
This year the enthusiasm .and zest 
with which the trip is anticipated has 
mounted to soaring heights.
Much of this pep can be attribu
ted to the great success the clubs 
have met with thus far. Every con
cert has been a huge success, netting 
big financial gains for the promoters 
and likewise large social enjoyment 
for the members. Ray! for the so
cial enjoyment.
At Wilmerding, on January 29th 
the clubs gave a concert that far surpassed,any pypr preseritefLanfL in. thus 
doing seta pace for the ensuing con
certs scheduled. The clubs scored 
such a big hit with Don Sillers and his 
mopola and with the banjo quin
tette that these numbers were given 
again by special request.
A little encouragement always helps 
the fellows to put over a better con
cert, so at Grecnsburg the clubs had 
dinner at the Hotel Rappe. The con
cert at this place was just another ad
dition to the already, long string of 
successes.
Mr. Robert Crawford, director of 
the Glee Club, sang a solo which was 
a feature not scheduled on the regular 
program. This pleased the adience 
very much. Besides this was the ad
ded attraction of a special jazz or
chestra, consisting of Burdick, on the 
piano, Korach, the renowned leader, 
nimbly swinging the bow over enchantingly tuned strings. Taylor, on 
the drums and Dunham, jazzing away, 
from head to foot, on the cornet.
You can bet your life they sure 
can Rozz.
Bliss, soloist for the Glee Club, and 
also the vocal quarttette, composed 
of Dunham, 1st tenor; Gannon, 2nd 
tenor; Bliss, baritone; and Kerr, bas
so; scored the big hit for the Glee 
Club.
These are only a few of the big fea
tures this year. Every fellow in both 
clubs is scoring some kind of hit for 
himself. The Mandolin Club, is for
tunate in having an excellent student 
leader in the man Korach. He is 
capable of directing the club in such 
farcinating manner that the audience 
is brought under the direct influence 
of musics hypnotic spell.
With such capable men as that 
pushing the Clubs to further success, 
the management has been able to get 
concerts in Erie, Youngstown and 
Akron. This will be the first appear
ance in Erie since 1916 and the mem
bers of both clubs are determined to 
give a concert that will make Erie a 
regular event in the future.
There is quite a percentage of the 
clubs talent drawn from around Erie 
and the vicinity so the fellows are 
looking forward to the trip, concert 
and what comes after.
At Youngstown, the clubs are well 
known. Ask any of the old men. As 
for Akron, that is new territory and 
the fellows are sure to do their best 
on this account.
The last rehearsal was held Sunday 
afternoon and the directors of both 
(clubs were unable to find a flaw in 
;ny .o the selections. Several new 
pieces were worked up and will prove 
to be big successes.
The following is a program present
ed at one of the concerts.
PART ONE.
1. (a) Amici
(b) The Sword of Ferrara.Bullard 
Glee Club.
2. The Tournament March.. Sullivan
Mandolin Club.
3. Marys Little Wise Man.... Cattcr
Glee Club.
4. Reading...................................Selcctod
Md. J. A. Willard.
5. Blues .................................. Selected
Banjo Quintette.
6. Solo, voice .......................... Seloctod
7. The Golden Scepter Overture. ...
Mandolin Club.
PART TWO.
8. Three for Jack ................. Squire
Glee Club.
9. A Dream .......................... Bartlett
Mandolin Club.
10. The sweetest Flower That
Blows ....................................Hawley
Male Quartette.
11. Minuet ......................... Beethoven
Mandolin Club.
12. Laughing Song ................... Kratz
Glee Club.
13. Selections from Whats the
Odds .................................... Tilzer
Mandolin Club.
14. (a) Recessional .DeKoven-Kiplg
(b) Alma Mater................C. I. T.
Glee Club.
On March 12th the Home Concert 
will be given in the Carnegie Music 
Hall and the Executive Board of the 
Clubs is working hard to have this 
concert the best ever given in the 
Music Hall.
To do this the support of the stu
dent body is needed so make that date 
early and be ready to enjoy the con
cert and dance afterwards.
FIRST STUDENT VESPER 
SERVICF GREAT SUCCESS
The first Student Vesper Service 
was held last Friday at the First Bap
tist Church. It was very well attend
ed. It opened with a very interesting 
organ recital by Mrs. Wright. Dr. 
Bryan, who was scheduled to speak 
was snow bound in New York state, 
so could not be present and Dr. Monk 
of Wilkinsburg gave the address. His 
subject was Doing the Impossible. 
He told that almost anything could 
be done of one would try earnestly. 
The talk was very forceful and interesting.
Beginning this week the Vespers 
will be held on Thursday instead of 
Friday. This Thursday Dr. John Ray 
Ewers will give an address on Christ 
and Lincoln. The organist will be 
announced later. The Student Coun
cil of Fifty will welcome all who 
come to the meetings.
STATE COLLEGES WILL RAISE ENTRANCE FEES
Harrisburg, Jan. 30.Entrance fees 
to every college in Pennsylvania, af
fecting both incoming and old stu
dents, to substantiate a salary in
crease for teachers, has been agreed 
on by 22 college presidents represent
ing the Association of College Presi
dents of Pennsylvania, meeting here.
Other business transacted was a 
discussion of the inter-church world 
movement and an election of officers. 
Dr. Robert Kelley of New York, sec
retary and educational director of the 
inter-church movement was a .speaker--------------------
The continuation of high costs brot 
about by the war has made it neces
sary for Delaware College to raise an 
emergency fund of $100,000. This 
fund will be used in the erection of 
temporary buildings and for increas
ing the salaries of the faculty.
STUDENT COUNCIL NAMES COMMITTEES FOR FIRST 
HOME COMING WEEK
Important Questions Discusseli
At the regular meeting of the Stu 
dent Council on Thursday, February 
5, the following business was tran
sacted :Areport of committees for HomeComing Week was given by Mr. Beat 
ty, chairman, pro tom. The commit
tees are as follows:
Chairman of General Committee,
F. I. Lawson 
Secretary of General Committee,
Miss E. McCarson 
Treasurer of General Committee,
G. T. Hoddaeus 
Publicity Committee:
Harry Aspinwsll,Miss G. Ramsey,
Athletic Events:
J. E. Beatty.
Circus:
M. E. Green,
Miss A. Piper.
Reception and Dances:
G. T. Hoddaeus. 
Clean-up-Day:
J. W. Batman,
J. E. Beatty.
Qualification and Tap Day:
F. I. Lawson.
M. M. I). Events:
Miss A Piper.
The committees are making very 
definite plans and are beginning a 
task that needs tho cooperation of 
every student of all tho Divisions.
The advisability of having Student 
Mass Meetings every month was dis
cussed and a motion was made that 
we have an all-students assembly 
once every month in the Carnegie 
Music Hall. The motion was car
ried to the administration for approv
al. However, if we have those mass 
meetings, all students will be requir
ed to attend them. There will be a 
good program for every assembly and 
if your interest is with Tech you 
will be there. The time is not given 
for study periods, but for a diversion 
from school work and an opportunity 
to unify the interests of the school.
A new Alma Mater was suggested. 
Discussion followed wherein the atti
tude of the students toward the pres(Continued on page 4.)
DELTA UPSILON HOLDS
FEBRUARY 11, 1920.
I BRILLIANT "COMEBACK PLAID DEFEATED GROVE 
CITY Olt EIN FORRM
Tech Outplays Crimson 
During Entire Game, 
Winning 2321.
Crove Citys Firsft Defeat on 
Home Floor in Two Years.
Playing a winning game from the 
start, the Tech five broke their losing 
streak and defeated the strong Grove 
City floor men in a fast contest 23 to 
21. The Tartan jinx was not working 
Saturday night, and old man Hard 
Luck was looking after some one else, 
which gave the Plaid warriors a 
chance to come thru on the top side of the score.
The close and hard fought contests 
put up by the Tech players, altho 
practically all defeats, have shown 
that they arc a high class aggregation, 
and up to the standard set by any 
collegiate team in Western Pennsyl
vania. They demonstrated this Sat
urday and displayed a brand of bas
ketball superior to that shown by 
any other team against Grove City 
this year. Defeating Grove City 
means a great deal, basketball being 
a specialty at that institution which 
has a reputation for turning out ex
cellent teams.
The game was rough and fast, many 
fouls being called on each team; 32 
on tho Plaid and 21 on the Grove 
City boys. Tho men on both sides 
extended themselves to tho limit, and 
hard guarding provailed throughout tho entire fray.
In tho initial period Tech started 
oil* with a rush and outclassed the 
Grove City five from tho start. Their 
passing and shooting bewildered the 
homo team and they kept tho load 
through the whole game. Tho first 
half closed with the score 12 to .10 
in favor of Tech.
In tho second period tho local boys 
wore able to garner only one basket, 
which was tossed by Smith. Gould 
had-so many opportunities to shoot 
fouls, tho, Grove City trailed along 
only a low points behind. The Skibos were never in groat danger and 
were in tho lead 23 to 21 when the 
final whistle blow.
Lynn was tho outstanding star for 
Tech, caging tho ball throe times 
from tlu! floor, and shooting eleven out 
of twenty-one fouls. Hammann also 
played well at forward, being in tho 
heart of every play.
Joo Smith, Captain of the Crimson 
Crew, did the best work for Grove 
City. 11 (s gathered in two field goals 
in addition to loading his men by his 
aggressiveness and fast work. Joo was 
also the shining light of last weeks 
game at the Tech gym, his brilliant 
work adding materially to tho Grove 
City score.
Now that thi! Plaid five have broken 
their losing streak, we all hope they 
will continue to come out ahead in 
the remaining games, which will more 
than atone for the former defeats.
Scorc:
Tech23. Grove City21.
Hammann ........F....................... Smith
Allen.....................F............Stephanian
Carey (C)..............C.................Ruddich
Moon .....................G..................... Gould
Lynn ..................G.............Hodge (C)
Field goalsLynn 3, Allen, Ham
mann, Moon, Smith 2, Hodge. Foul 
goulsLynn 11 out of 21, Gould 15 
out of 32. Referee Buck Baird, W. 
& J. Time of halves, 20 minutes.
ATDRMCSLC HVVPGNW EU KSTBMS KO" CY"MltS0
On Saturday, February 7 the Car
negie Chapter of Delta Upsilon held 
its second annual banquet and initia
tion. The formal initiation rite took 
place at the Chapter House at 5:30 
after which the banquet was held at 
the University Club. The initiates 
were as follows: Edward L. Wein
man 22, Ray Doherty 22, W. K. 
Burchard 23, A. F. Eichorn 23, J. L. 
Jacobson 23, A. P. Calvert 23, Geo. 
T. Weidlein 23, Mark L. Wright 23, 
Ross Hertz 23. After the banquet 
there were a number of speakers who 
were introduced by the chairman, Bro. 
Geo. D. Lain 16. Brother E. C. 
Morey, Syracuse 84, spoke on the 
fraternity, telling the new brothers 
of its ideals and aims. Brother C. G. 
Dunnells, Lehigh 97, spoke on the 
fraternity situation at Tech and also 
spoke on keeping a high scholastic 
standing. Brother Edward Schreiner 
spoke about the Delta IJ. Club of 
Western Pennsylvania. The meeting 
broke up temporarily to attend the 
lecture by Walter Camp on keeping 
physically fit. After getting together 
again there were short talks by many 
of the brothers, including an interest
ing account of the initiation before 
the final part by Brother Hertz.
A meeting of the Carnegie Camera 
Club will be held Thursday, February 
12 at 8 p. m. in room 104 Machinery 
Hall. Mr. Hineline, formerly of the 
Eastman Kodak Co., will speak on the 
Methods of Making Photographic Ma
terials. He will also conduct an informal discussion on the subject, 
answering questions from the audi
ence.
We are extremely fortunate to have 
Mr. Hineline, who is a new member 
of the Science Chemistry faculty, in 
the school. His experience, both in 
connection with the E. K. Co. and in 
his own work, qualifies him as an 
expert in all branches of photography. 
Mi-. Hineline has quite a large set of 
fine lantern slides which he can form 
into a very interesting course of lec
tures on photographic reproductions,
The Club has secured Room 56 Ma
chinery Hall as a dark room. This 
is of! ample size to accommodate sevcral men, and has water facilities. 
Equipment will be added from time to 
time as the funds permit, and regula
tions adopted to govern the use of the 
room.This will be a meeting well worth 
attending to learn more about the 
manufacture of the materials you use. 
If you intend to join the Club come 
to this meeting and get acquainted.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1920.
ty? ariatt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.60
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
5c the copy Canada, $1.75
Business Manager
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
New Editor 
J. T. Am Ga 
Assodate News Editor 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athletic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffon
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries......................... J. R. Rudisill
Arts...................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
for the care of sick students who require the services of specialists, and are 
unable to meet this expense.
FEES FOR SPECIAL STUDENTSAn extra fee of $50.00 per quarter 
will be collected from day students who take short intensive courses. These 
students demand individual attention, necessitating an expense which can 
only be pai-tially met by these extra fees. The extra charges do not apply 
to students in the summer courses.
FEES FOR NIGHT STUDENTSThe general fees for night students 
who take the regular night courses in any of the divisions of the institute, 
will be $80.00 for the year.
These fees apply to all new students entering in 1920. The rates now 
paid by those in attendance this year is to continue for them until they com
plete their courses within the prescribed time allotted for the course at the 
time of their entrance.
*A credit of iivo dollars a quarter for day students will be extended to 
residents of Pittsburgh who register in consecutivo years. For night students 
a credit of five dollars for the year is allowed for registration in consecutive 
year. The term "Resident of Pittsburgh, as here used, is defined to mean 
a student living in Pittsburgh, under or over twenty-one years of age whose 
parent or guardian is a resident of Pittsburgh. A day student over twentyone years of age, whose parent or guardian is NOT a resident of Pittsburgh, 
and who comes to Pittsburgh primarily to attend the Institute CANNOT 
himself become a resident of Pittsburgh. See Art VllI, Par. 4 of the Con
stitution of Pennsylvania: For the purpose of voting, no person shall be 
deemed to have gained a residence by reason of his presence, or lost it by 
reason of his absence while a student of any institution of learning***/
BUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager, 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature ta be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student'postoffice,'Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
ORGANIZATIONS
For the convenience of organ
izations with bills of the 1920 
Thistle Board outstanding, pay
ment may bo made between 
12:30 and 1:30 on Thursday, 
February 12, 1920, at the Stu
dent Activities Office on the 
third floor of: the Central Bldg.
L. S. LASHMIT, Treas.
THE "FLU SITUATION.
Very recently it seemed that an epidemic of influenza would be very 
probable in Pittsburgh and at Tech. Now, every obstacle has been met and
with and the probability of a quarantine is very slight.
Many cities are at present coping with this delicate problem and health 
authorities feared very much that the epidemic would be nation-wide". Just 
what has boon accomplished, no one is lmrclly in a position to say. Every 
precaution is being taken, however, to eliminate such an occurrence.
In Pittsburgh things are not very serious as yet. The Board of Health 
has entered a publicity campaign advising and cautioning against such things 
that would tend to increase the number ofcases. It it wise that we should 
follow this advice.
At Tech tho possibility of an epidemic was very great. However, the 
situation is entirely attended to now and there seems to be no doubt that
school will continue. Many affairs have been postponed to prevent this.
May wo but continue to co-opernto with the city officials in combating tho 
deadly germ, observing every precaution. We are greatly indebted for the 
consistent efforts of Dr. Marks and Prof. Esquorre In keeping tho epidemic 
down, as they alone are responsible.
After a lapse of two years, the club room of the Division of Science 
mid Engineering was again opened for tho use and enjoyment of the students 
of that school. Tho locution of the room itself remains the same as it 
was before tho closing, but the furnishings and care-talcing which used to 
be evident are now sadly lacking. The furniture which used to adorn the 
place is now distributed among tho department club rooms, and no attempt 
has been made either to have it returned or replaced.
Tho sanitary conditions are such nr: to prove a Herculean task for the 
student of Sanitary Engineering in tho division should ho bo given a month 
In which to remedy them. Spitting on the floor and throwing around of 
refuse from the meals which are not supposed to be eaten there in the first 
place, seem the chief Indoor,(.ports of those who enjoy tho privileges of the 
room.
Caro should be taken that those nulcances do not occur, especially since 
such precautions are necessary at this time to prevent tho spreading of dis
ease. The Hoards of Health of every city have ordered tho most rigid care 
taken In this regard, and It Is up to tho Science Senate, which has jurisdiction, 
to soo that conditions are Improved.
COLLEGIATE GOSSIP.* * *
The Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology has at last found out the 
name of its generous benefactor. The 
announcement that George Eastman 
is the mysterious Mr. Smith was 
made at the Annual Alumni Reunion 
Dinner last Saturday night.
The first gift of two and one-half 
millions to Technology was made in 
March, 1912. The donors name was 
not given, which started a great 
guessing competition. The favorite 
choices were Carnegie, Frick, Du 
Pont, Vail and Edison.
In 1916 Mr. Smith offered to give 
five dollars for every three dollars 
given by others for an endowment, 
up to a limit of two and one-half mil
lion on his part. A drive was started 
and the conditions were fulfilled to se
cure the full benefit of Mr. Smiths 
offer.
Last June the latest offer was made 
in which Mr. Smith offered to give 
four million dollars for endowment on 
the condition that an equal amount 
was raised in a reasonable time. On 
last Friday the total of the endow
ment fund went over the $4,000,000 
mark, the exact figure being $4,002,- 
445.91 at that time. The announce
ment that Technologys mysterious 
and generous benefactor was Mr. 
Eastman was then made.* * *
Seven men will take part in the 
last competition for the 94 Memorial 
Debate prize on January 12, at Cor
nell. This is the final elimination con
test and will be held as a debate be
tween two teams. However, each 
man will be judged on his individual 
merits and he man presenting his 
arguments best will be chosen as the 
winfier.* * *
The omission of Boston College 
from the Harvard football schedule 
is believed to be one of the causes 
of the complete severance of athletic 
relations between Boston College and 
Harvard. Two basketball games, a 
hockey game and a track meet have 
all been cancelled by the Boston Col
lege Athletic Committee.
s!!ii;?inTi:r;3":[^nn;Hn'~;:ii::^T^;nj';nnin!ii;;Z:;;:nn:nnn!!ra3HiiTiTi^
See Daily Papers for Information of 
our 25% Clearance Sale.
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool
Of finest Make
Durable
Lasting
Of latest Styles
Wonderful values
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlows Good Clothes
Opportunity's
Offer of Style-perfection
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them 
Ladie admire Men who wear them 
Others envy them
This is your chance
Here is your selection
Even now awaiting your visit
SERVICER FIRST !
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
;^il!!lllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!l!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
ANNOUNCEMENT.
ALUMNI-STUD1CNT PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Interviewing of Seniors 
'Pile seniors of all schools are being interviewed during this week and 
next by the Employment Bureau for the purpose of obtaining such informa
tion which may help in placing men, after they lire out of school, in the 
position for which they are best fitted and are naturally interested.
It was with considerable interest and pride that the Institution learned 
last week from the Editor of the Professional Engineer the status of our 
Employment Bureau. The following is a quotation from a letter received 
by the Bureau:
You may be interested in knowing that you have by far the 
most complete employment service of any of the colleges with 
whom I have had correspondence.
The student body can be of great assistance to the Employment Bureau 
by co-operating in every way possible. Bringing employment openings to 
the attention of the Bureau is often of very material assistance.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT 
There will be no classes, Day or Night, on Monday, February 23, 
Legal holiday. ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
LISTEN
You can get twice 
as many ordinary 
cigarettes for the 
price of Murad
But you cheat your
self of everything that 
makes a cigarette worth 
while  the delight, 
the satisfaction, the aris
tocracy of pure 1 urkish 
tobacconone like it!
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT 
STATEMENT ISSUED BY THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
The Carnegie Institute of Technology has been obliged, owing to the 
unprecedented demand for instruction due to the War, to enroll over 4,500 
students for the year 1919-20, resulting in an overload far beyond the 
capacity of the institution. It has therefore been decided to very materially 
reduce the registration for the next academic year, beginning September, 
1920, and to concentrate all the resources of the Institute on a smaller num
ber of students and to give them more personal attention.
Any additional income from endownment or revenue from higher fees 
will bo used to adjust the salaries of the faculty, to acquire new educational 
equipment, and to maintain, and if possible advance, tli estandards of effi
ciency which have always been the ideal of this institution. With a larger 
income and restricted numbers in each section, it will be possible to retain 
the abler members of the faculty and to increase the effectiveness of their 
touching by relieving them of the strain of large classes and heavy schedules.
Fees
The funds to cover the cost of an education at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology comes from two sources. The income from the endowment 
given by Mr. Andrew Carnegie provides approximately throo-fourths of the 
total expense. Tho other fourth is covered by the general fees collected 
from students. The fees charged to students have been placed at the lowest 
possible figure so that even those of limited means con secure an education 
of high grade.
GENERAL FEEThe general fee for regular day students will be 
$125.00 per year. The funds collected from this source are used for instruc
tion, supplies needed by teachers, replacements of equipment, and administra
tion; all of which are part of the operation costs. In addition, there are pro
vided out of these funds, medical examinations which are required of both 
men and women, with free consultation from resident physicians.*
STUDENT ACTIVITIESA fee of $10.00 per year will be collected, 
beginning in 1920, from all regular day students. This fund will be distrib
uted by the student organizations for the maintenance of intercollegiate 
athletics and other student activities. From this fund provision is also made
100% 
PURE TURKISH 
the worlds most 
famous tobacco 
for cigarettes

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1920.THE TARTAN
EJSEiaSJigBiaiSJERSfEIHKHEJ
P. LUDEBUEHL ANO SON
PENN AND F'JA MKSTOWN AVENUE8
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE jgj EXPENSE by buying better gj shoes. You will find them far B cheaper to wear than shoes which are not so high in quality, g.
Our new models for FALL and [| WINTER are now in, and they 3 are full of snapjust suitable jf for the college man.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
TRANSITS AND LEVELS ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instruments of Precision, Blue Print @ and Brown Print Papers and Sj Cloths.
| B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
H 126 SIXTH STREET
Brown & Zortman1 
i i Machine Co.O
r\
Hfl Union Arcade I J| 
Pittsburgh Penna
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine.
Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office
Phone Court 866
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
BANQUET OF SCIENCE PLEBES 
PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
What happened on Tuesday night? 
That eventful night will be remem
bered by all Science Plebes. The 
moon was shining, the stars were gaz
ing and the atmosphere seemed to 
give no resistence to the schedule of 
epoch making dates. Every Plebe de
cided to make a date and they did, 
forsaking all their beloved lessons for 
the advancing day.
On that night, silence, silence reign
ed everywhere around the campus. 
The lunch room appeared as if all its 
patronizers have deserted it, surely a 
deficit in the register occured. Natur
ally there were no Plebes to be found 
at the Skibo and everything appeared 
to the Sophomores the same as the 
day before Antony made his famous 
speech to his beloved Roman citizens.
The strain went beyond its elastic 
limit and the Sophomores broke loose. 
The dormitories were searched for 
Plebes, but none were available at 
that specific time. The battle yell was 
sounded and every Sophomore was 
summoned to appear on the battle
field, i. ie. the gym. The chiefs went 
into session, having two purposes to 
accomplish. First to find the exact 
place where the enemy is stationed, 
and then to destroy the solemn silence 
of the above enemy. To accomplish 
the first purpose, skirmishers were 
sent out to every part of the city to 
locate the enemy, and the wireless 
operator began to send out S. O. S. 
calls.
In the meanwhile, each section of 
the Plebes met in a definite locality of 
the city, but they all assembled at 
Duquesne Way. There, four special 
cars were waiting to take them to 
their chosen land, where they would 
be able to hold their annual, eventful 
beanery meal in peace.
President Hamerschlag and Coach 
Hazel were the guests and they stimu
lated the spirit of the Plebes. Prsident Hamerschlag gave them hope of 
becoming Sophomores (if the faculty 
would agree) and Coach Hazel gave 
a little talk on school spirit and later 
announced that there will be no gym 
classes for the Science Plebes on the 
following day.
Craighead, president of the Plebes, 
presided and spoke of many things of 
interest to the class. He urged the 
class to support all Plebe Regulations 
on the campus and to stick behind 
their officers in all they might do. He 
announced a Plebe, dance to be held 
in the Union on February 27 and told 
also of a Plebe stag to be held 
soon. Anderson, captain of the Plebe 
football and basketball teams spoke 
on athletics and urged the class to 
support their teams. Treasurer Rob
erts, who was in charge of the ban
quet preparation took this occasion 
to thank all the men who worked so 
hard to make.it a success.
And then pleasure reigned again. 
A local theatrical troupe of clever 
singers and dancers put on a show.
SKIBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
Lo& and Found
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
FoundKey: either a drawing room 
or chemical laboratory key No. 
4A7191.
FoundOn Friday, January 16, on 
floor of new restaurant, a valuable 
ladies set ring. Owner may obtain 
same by communicating with Mr. C. 
W. Sproull, Room 121, Science Build
ing.
FoundA note book with red covers 
found in basement hall of Industries 
Building January 21. Apply for same 
to Dean Tarbell.
FoundOne key ringno identifica
tion mark other than Corbin Cabinet 
Lock Co., No. 26. Apply for same at 
Dean Tarbells Office.
Lost.An O. N. E. fraternity pin, a 
jeweled skull and cross bones, on the 
campus or on Woodlawn Ave., be
tween Margaret Morrison and Forbes 
St. Finder will please return to Miss 
Moore, Batron of Margaret Morrison.
Purse:Found in Central Building, 
containing key and money. See Miss 
Bird in Dean Tarbells office.
From the beginning of the Paul 
Lost:In Machinery Hall, Friday, 
January 30 between 1:30 and 2:30, an 
Elgin Wrist Watch. Finder return 
to R. M. Vellmon, Junior Commercial.
To think of it! The above Plebes 
made it their duty that they should 
have feminize dancers and singers 
among their presence. Did they 
dance? Ill say the Plebe knows. Ask him.
About ten oclock the Sophomores 
ceased their siege, for the enemy did 
not appear nor had he left any foot
prints to lead to his destination.
About half past two the enemy ap
peared an the scene. They cheered, 
yelled, sang, whistled and some chal
lenged the Sophomores to come out. 
Their spirit was at the extreme at 
that time and since there were not 
many Sophomores in the dormitories 
the Plebes were not hampered in their 
triumphant march. Of course there 
is a silver lining to every cloudy sky 
and it appeared on Tuesday night but 
never again, so think the Sophs.
The place where the beanery feast 
was held was at The Pines.
----------0----------
ALLEGHENY BEATS TECH IN AGGRESSIVE GAME
ALLEN AND CAREY PLAY
WELL FOR PLAID.
Hampered by the small floor, Coach 
Bianchis five lost to Allegheny Fri
day night 44 to 27. Tech was unable 
to take the lead at any stage of the 
game, Allegheny keeping ahead thruout the contest.
The Tartans played a terrifically 
aggressive game, and at times gave a 
splendid exhibition of team work and 
shooting. They could not keep up 
the pace, however, while Allegheny 
played well consistently, running up 
a large score.
Sniavy Kerr, the Allegheny shipper, 
starred for the home team, pulling off 
many humorous plays in addition to 
his fine floor work. Dunbar was the 
chief scorer for Allegheny caging the 
ball seven times, four of his goals 
coming in rapid succession at the be
ginning of the second half.
Both Allan and Carey played well 
for Tech. Carey is showing up wond
erfully well at center, this being his 
third game at that position. Getting 
the tip-off the great majority of the 
time is not his only long suit, for on 
account of his great height he can fol
low upshots and grab the ball above 
the reach of most of his opponents.
Lynn was up to his usual standard 
at shooting fouls and made 15 out of 
21.
Score.
Tech27. Allegheny44.
Hamman...................F............Kerr (C)
Allen...........................F.................Dunbar
Carey (C)..................C............Mountsier
Moon ..........................G.................Kofford
Lynn ...........................G................Baldwin
Substitutions  Gibson for Allen, 
Allen for Moon, Stephens for Mount
sier. Field GoalsAllen 2, Carey 2, 
Lynn, Hamman, Dunbar 7, Kerr 2, 
Stephens 2, Baldwin 3. Foul goals 
Lynn 15 out of 21, KofTard 16 out of 
19. Time of periods 20 minutes.
----------8----------
RECITAL 
By Music School Sunday Evening, 
February 15, 1920.
1. Sonata f Minor Ravel
I II III
Margaret Allison
2. Ballade and Polonaise
Henry Hary Vieuxtemjs
3. The Sussex-Mummers Christmas
Carol Grainger
Tarantelle Popper
Jean Wessner
4. Allemande & Gavotte DAlbert
Serenada Alferaky
Etude Db Liszt
Robert McGowan
5. Concert 3 b Minor 1st movement
Horace Brown Saint-Sans
6. Piano Quartette Eb Major op 47 
Sostenuto assai, Allegro ma non
troppo Schumann
Alice Kirk, Francis Kleyle 
Horace Brown, Jean Wessner 
AccompanistsHelen Eshelman and 
Alice Kirk.
RESULTS IN VOLUNTARY
PHYSICAL EDUCATION
Brumbaugh the husky fullback of 
the freshman football team displaces 
Mertz for the honor of third place in 
the Voluntary Plan. The position of 
Cummins and Clark remain the same. 
Several new men have jumped into the 
fifteen-point class. B. M. Shields is 
only five points behind Mertz with a 
total of 23.
To date there are thirteen men who 
have scored fifteen oi* more points.
Great interest is being taken in the 
boxing work and each afternoon the 
gloves are always busy right up until 
supper time.
The following men have scored fif
teen or more points:
Red Cummins 40, A. D. Clark 38, 
Brumbaugh 29, Mertz 28, Shields 23, 
Crago 20, M. T. Moore 18, K. R. Oliv
er 18, R. H. Watt 18, McDaniel 16, 
H. A. Baugh 15, Craighead 15, R. W. 
Miller 15.
----------0----------Guy E. Cogswell and Joseph T. 
Murphy, of Dartmouth, have been de
clared ineligible to represent Dart
mouth in any branch of inter-colleg
iate sport. This announcement "was 
made by a member of the Dartmouth 
Athletic Council after a thorough in
vestigation in which it was proven 
that these men took part in a profes
sional outfit, and played under assum
ed names.
This is a big blow to Dartmouth 
athletics as Murphy is one of the best 
pitchers in college as well as being an 
all-around athlete.
THE NEW DAVIS.
The Fifth Anniversary of Keith 
vaudeville at the Davis Theatre will 
be celebrated throughout the entire 
week which begins Monday, February 
16. The occasion is to be made a se
ries of holidays, for twice each day, 
beginning at 2:00 and 8:00 p. m., a 
program of twelve festival acts will 
be presented. Not fewer than five 
starts will headline the program. Ex
ternal evidences of the birthday will 
be seen in floral decorations for lob
bies and foyers, while on the stage the 
gayety of the holiday will be appar
ent in every act. The feature attrac
tions are Trixie Friganza, star of mus
ical comedy; Mabel McCane and her 
company, in a smart singing and 
dancing revue; Vinie Daly, interna
tional grand opera star from Memmerstein's London Theatre; Gergie 
Price, the Gus Edwards prodigy; and 
Tony Hunting and Corinne Francis, 
who have just returned from note
worthy war work abroad.
Miss Friganza, who has starred in 
a variety of musical shows, including 
The Sweetest Girl in Paris, Town 
Topics, The American Idea, and 
A Trip to Chinatown, is known as 
the roly poly comedienne, and will 
present A Surprise Party, in the 
form of a cyle of songs written exclu
sively for her by John Havez. The 
entertainment is in the nature of a 
trevesty, and will disclose Miss Friganzas fun-making penchant. Mabel 
McCane, who co-starred with Joseph 
Howard, the song composer, in his 
various revues, will be aided by Tom 
Bryan, Lillian Broderick, and William 
Taylor, in a melange of songs inteiv 
larded with dances. For each num
ber a complete scenic investiture will 
be provided. Miss McCane has been 
lavish both in the matter of decora
tive embellishment and also in the 
calibre of her company. Miss Daly 
makes her Pittsburgh debut on this 
occasion. She is the coloration so
prano the late Oscar Hammerstein 
selected as the American representa
tive on the occasion when he ventur
ed into the worlds metropolis with 
grand opera. She will sing a reper
toire of melodies from the operas. Her 
voice has frequently been compared 
to that of Galli Curci, its limpid, liquid 
quality showing off to finest advan
tage in the most brilliant ariafe. 
Gergie Price is perhaps the most 
teges. He was brought out originally 
under the name of Little Gergie, 
at the time when Cuddles, now a 
screen star under the name of Lila 
Lee, was almost in swaddling clothes, 
They starred pointly under Mr. Ed
wards chaporonage. Now Gergie 
has outgrown the diminutive appelation, and is presenting A Little of 
Everything, in which are included 
impersonations of famous actors, 
original songs, story-telling, and danc
ing. Tony Hunting and Corinne 
Francis will play The Flower Shop, 
a comedy which they presented for 
the American Expeditionary forces in 
France, and also with the Army of 
Occupation in Germany. It is a sing
ing, dancing and talking skit which 
carries a merry little story with a 
rather unexpected and amusing cli
max. The rest of the bill will be 
made up of acts of similar quality, 
though infinite in their vxariety, and 
will be supplemented by a selection 
of moving pictures in which the things 
that are happening around the world 
will be graphically illustrated. Scats 
for the entire week will be offered at 
the ticket window, beginning next 
Monday, February 9.* * *
THE GRAND.
Hobart Bosworth, noted dramatic 
actor of the screen and stage, will re
turn before the motion picture public 
in Behind the Door, said to be the 
most awe-inspiring photoplay ever 
created, at Pittsburghs New Milligan 
Dollar Grand all next week starting 
Monday morning, February 16. 
Founded upon the novel of the same 
name by Gouverneur Morris, it has 
one of the most soul-stirring themes 
ever put into the films, and has been 
performed with a mastery of dramatic 
effects that astounds. The picture 
was produced under the general sup
ervision of Thomas Ince, and the di
rector was Irvin Willatt, the man re
sponsible for the The Guilty Man, 
Henry Walthals False Faces and 
other highly successful offerings.
Behind the Door is the story of a 
powerful love, a great wrong, an in
tense suffering, and a vengeance that 
makes ones blood turn cold. There 
are few pictures that stir a person 
to the depths, but this is one of the 
most wonderful of them. Hobart 
Bosworth is famous for the power of 
his work. His Sea Wolf is one of 
the big pictures of all time, and he 
has done other great things for the 
screen and stage. But never has he 
had a role so strong, so unusual and 
so marvelously interesting as that in 
Behind the Door.
This is Mr. Bosworths first photo
play in several years. He left the 
screen for a time, after many success
ful years in all kinds of roles, to make 
a vaudeville tour in a tabloid version 
of the The Sea Wolf, winning a 
vast number of new friends. The 
screen has drawn him back again, 
however, and he has started out to en
rich it with such masterful, artistic 
productions as Behind the Door.
If one likes big fights, the conflicts 
of strong men, mental, spiritual and 
physical conflicts; romance, gentle 
and deep rooted; adventureluring 
one into a hundred perils; mystery 
unusual, fascinating; pursuitsof a
cad who knows no honor: retribution 
so startling that it sends the shivers 
up and down one's spinethey will 
all be found in this. It is a story of 
a he-mans battle Against i*ate, the 
drama of one, coward and traitor, who 
proves his patriotism by deedsand 
not by words. Its locale is a New 
England village and the high seas; its 
characters men and women who live 
close to the fundamentals of life.
Winsome Jane Novak is Mr. Bosworths leading woman and Wallace 
Beery, famous for his villain roles, 
has an exceptional part. Also in the 
cast are James Gordon. Richard Wain, 
J. P. Lockney, Gibson Gowland, and 
Otto Hoffman.
On the Grands program besides will 
be a Mack Sennett comedy, the Grand 
News Weekly and the Topics of the 
Day. The symphony orchestra, di
rected by David Broudy, will play a 
special program arranged to suit the 
pictures, besides an extra number. 
Both orchestra and pipe organ will be 
all-day features. Performances will 
be continuous from 10:00 a. m. till 
11:00 p. m.
----------0----------
Pard Pearce, who was exposed at 
Penn as a professional, departed from 
the Red and Blue institution Wednes
day. On Saturday he will play quart
erback for Phoenixville in the game 
against Conshohocken. The first in
timation that Doc. Wharton got that 
Pard Pearce was a professional man 
was while in attendance at the Lchigh-Lafayette game. An investiga
tion followed with the result that he 
was dropped. Pearce played under 
the name of Yalter Dwyer with the 
Cubs.
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
PAGE THREE.
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schcnley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
A WELCOME TO ALL
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
00 YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS
JACQUES 
CRAIG AND FORBES
CLASS AND PRIVATE 
DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
Right traininovins the race,
pixoN5 ^
ARTSP
Me master clrauwfi pend
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
BATTERY
Exide
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
^UII!lllll!!l!!l!IIllllll!!i!lllllli)!IIIIIIIllll!IMI!!l!lilI!l!I!l!|]|llllllllllll!l!ll!ll)lll!!lll!!l!
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but: our most eminent physicians as well. Modt people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived mwre in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. Theres a lot of ioy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotorium Pool is open all v/inter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.

---------------------------------------------------

For rosy cheeks, Jf happy smsies, white 
^ teeth, good appetites 
and digestions.
Its benefits are as GREAT 
as Us cost is SMALL!
It satisfies the desire for 
sweets, and is beneficial, too.
Sealed Tight Kept Right
After
Every
Meal
The
Flavor
Lasts
A12
..WRIGLEYS^TIEsgmfc
rai PERFECTTMC PERFECT GUM
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Hellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
! Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Boll Phonoo 678 & 9169 8ch on ley 
P. 4. A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Good Moved, Stored, 
Packed mid Shipped.
Y.rrmiwmmmmmmmimmmmttmu 
ilmVf 8>l|uU'iu (flmuuTjjuttmtJj
Fifth and IVIorewood Avenues. 
Hamiiol II. Oolflonnou, Ill. I)., Rubbl, 
Tinnplo Mindy Tol., i.ohonloy 875.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning al. 11:10. 
Sul)ject:  "Enlightened Selfishness.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning' 
at 10:45.
Grace Church
(Reformed)BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS FREDERICK C. NAU, Mlnlnter. 3ERVICE8:Sunday School 9:-15 A. M.Morning Worship-11 A. M,.Social hour and Luncheon Tor stu
dents, 15c, at (i oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
The Campus Anvil
THE TARTAN
ARMY ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
United States Military Academy a 
West Point, New York
December 31, 1919. 
Col. John C. Brooks, Rtd.,
Carnegie Inst, of Tech.,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Sir:
The p*.st World's War has proven 
that athletics make most efficient of
ficers and leaders of men. President 
Wilson has written as follows on the 
subject of football and athletics in the 
training of soldiers:
It would be difficult to over-es
timate the value of football expe
rience as a part of a soldiers train
ing. The army athletic directors 
and the officers in charge of spe
cial training schools in the canton
ments have derived excellent re
sults from the use of elementary 
football and other personal con
tact games as an aid in developing 
the aggressiveness, initiative and 
determination of recruits, and the 
ability to carry on in spite of bodily 
hurts or physical discomforts. 
These qualities, as you well know, 
were the outstanding characterist
ics of the American Soldier. 
Faithfully yours, 
WOODROW WILSON.
At present West Point is sadly in 
need of good athletic material. With 
this in view and the benefits that 
would accrue to the Army, to West 
Point and to the Government from the 
acquirement of such personnel, I am 
writing to you to enlist your efforts 
in the securement of good athletic 
material for West Point.
The time has come when the Army 
should obtain, through the efforts of 
its numerous officers, scattered in 
their various duties, the best of the 
young men of each community for its 
future officers. This can only be at
tained by each officer in the service 
talcing a personal interest in the mat
ter and by personally carrying on a 
campaign with this end in view. In 
the past young men have been inter
ested in the glamour and attractive
ness of West Point and from youth 
have wondered if they might some day 
be enrolled among its numbers. This 
will be particularly true in the years 
to come as West Point is gradually 
broadening out along more liberal 
lines than before. The entrance re
quirements have changed, the courses 
of study are being modernized and 
the life of a cadet is being made of 
a broader nature.
Candidates may be admitted to 
West Point if they can present a cer
tificate that they have completed 3% 
years of an accredited high school or 
preparatory school and an affidavit 
that they intend to graduate in June 
of that year. The examinations are 
held in February of each year, which 
enables the candidate to submit his 
Hi) year certificates and continue his 
schooling until he enters the Acad
emy in July. If a candidate can sub
mit a certificate that he will have fin
ished one year's work at a college or 
university he will be accepted.
As it is most essential that an of
ficer have a good physique, it is evi
dent that your best field for work 
along the above lines, lies among ath
letes. You should cultivate and know 
them, after which you can discuss the 
Army with them and once you win 
them, the rost is simple enough. West 
Point and the Army nocd athletes and 
it behooves all officers, whether grad
uates of the Military Academy or not, 
to exert some energy to soo that they 
are enrolled.
In case an appointment cannot be 
located, advise the young man to en
list in the National Guard, from which 
lie can compete for entrance and if lie 
is an athlete of ability, we can prob
ably locate an eleventh-hour shift for 
him so his entrance will be assured. 
If a prospective candidate enlists in 
the National Guard, please write con
cerning his case and until his accept
ance, this office will keep track of him 
and his application.
We would appreciate very much a 
reply to this communication as we 
want to feel that we have the backing 
and support of all officers in this 
movement. If any suggestions occur 
to you we would be most pleased to 
have them and want to cooperate in 
any way.
It isessential that we get busy; now 
as the first examinations are in Feb
ruary and the second, if they are held, 
in May.
Trusting to hear from you regard
ing this important matter, I am,
Very truly yours,
PHILIP HAYES,
Capt. Field Artillery, 
Executive for Athletics.
----------B----------
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY. 
At the Science Assembly last Wed
nesday Mr. Chester B. Early, a me
chanical engineer and a graduate of 
Massachusetts Tech gave a talk to 
the students. Mr. Early is chief en
gineer of the American Sheet and Tin 
Company and is interested in quite a 
number of firms in the city.
The subject, of Mr. Earlys talk was 
The Relation of Theory and Prac
tice. lie started out by saying that 
there is not so much opposition to 
college students as there was 25 years 
ago and that college men are wel
comed to the factories and mills. He 
made the interesting statement that 
in general the theoretical man is the 
most practical and the practical man 
is theoretical. One must have both 
theory and practice to succeed. The 
knowledge of books must be gotten in 
school while the knowledge of plants! 
can be gotten in the mill.
---------D----------
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
TATRNSFMEI GMHUDYF4GUM:
(Continued from page 1.) 
ject of the Ball this time bills no lim
its as to period of' subject of the cos
tume to be worn. Be original, use 
your imagination ,and let the product 
of your labor put even the vanity of 
the peacock to shame. All evening 
dresses and modern clothes of any na
ture will be barred as inappropriate.
The committee has arranged to 
have all suitable books on costume 
suggestions placed on a special table 
in the reference room of the main li
brary, where they can be reached at 
all times by the students. Any sug
gestions or material will be greatly 
appreciated by the Committee.
Decorations:  The decorative 
scheme for this years ball will be 
modern and original, which will allow 
remarkable play of colors and imagin
ation. The transformation of the cor
ridors and the foyer will be complete, 
with marvelous hangs, wonderfully 
studied lighting, and well-placed deco
rative motives. Together with the 
costumes ,music and the wonderful 
spirit of gayety, the effect produced 
should be gorgeous and inspiring.
Banquet:One of the features of 
the evening will be a feast that will 
be served in the Exhibition Hall as 
the last moments of Friday night fade 
into inatin of another day. There will 
be a cabaret to entertain during the 
repast and an adequate appropriation 
assures a substantial meal. It is hop
ed to make this break in the evening 
one of glorious revelry.
Entertainment:  The main enter
tainment of the evening will come just 
before the banquet and will be staged 
in the theater. It will be a beautiful 
ballet adapted from Poes Mask of 
the Red Death.
Partners:If you have not yet ob
tained a partner for the dance do not 
give up. Miss Murdoch, chairman of 
the Social Committee, will arrange in
troductions and will be glad to assist 
those who are without partners in ar
ranging dates. If you are now with
out a date see her for suggestions.
Dancing Lessons:For those who 
cannot dance a competent dancing 
teacher will be procured to give in
structions. If you cannot dance turn 
your name into the secretary.
Cloak Rooms:Cloak rooms will be 
provided for the disposal of outside 
wraps. It is expected that people will 
come to the building in their costumes 
and not plan to dress here.
Entrance:The Woodlawn Avenue 
entrance will be the only one to the 
building the night of the Ball. The 
front doors will be closed.
Smoking:Gentlemen are request
ed to strictly observe the Student Sen
ate prohibition against smoking in the 
corridors, and the foyer.
The Frolic of the Vanities will be 
a gorgeously artistic inspiration well 
worthy of taking its place among its 
most successful predecessors and will 
forever be, to those who attend, a 
bright star in their memory of good 
times. It is being given by and for 
the students and every effort they ex
pend will make the triumph of the 
great occasion the more perfect and 
lasting. Everyone is urged to arouse 
within himself a personal enthusiasm 
and interest and give freely of his 
time toward the work of preparation. 
With this spirit and a hearty coopera
tion of all there is no doubt but what 
we will set a mark that will be hard 
for the future to surpass.
Committees.
Administration: Harry F. Bremmor, President, assisted by the Advis
ory Committee, Arleigh B. William
son, Stanley P. Stewart, and Nelson 
P. Itice, Business Manager.
Decorations: Barney Goldstein,
Larrie Stultz, Laurie Critcher, A. E. 
Anderson, Charlotte Shuman.
Social: Mary Frances Murdock,
Inez Hazel, Winifred Cramp, Barry 
Dierlcs.
Banquet: J. P. Davis, J. G. Todd, 
M. E. Green.
Entertainment: Alexander L. Buch
anan, Robert Schmertz, Carl Reid, W. 
J. Perkins, Elizabeth Smith, Robert 
McGowan, Charles Krane.
Publicity: Harry T. Aspinwall,
Mox W. Pohlmeyer, C. A. Lake, L. L. 
Nusbaum, Lawrence Paquin.
Architectural Construction: Harry 
Stone, II. C. Brockman, T. R. Hinck
ley, C. E. Silling.
Electrical Design: David Gaither,
James Church, Alexander Wyckoff.
Costumes: Nicholas Hans Miller.
Tylers: W. J. Perkins, Carl Web
er.
Transportation: S. H. Jamison,
Walter Connor._ - 
STUDENT COUNCIL NAMES.
(Continued from page 1.) 
ent Alma Mater was very emphatical
ly revealed.
A point system in connection with 
School Activities was proposed. The 
idea of the Point System is to limit 
the number of offices that a student 
may hold, thus relieving the willing 
and enthusiastic workers from a burd
en and bringing into action those who 
may not have taken an active part be
fore. Each office to be assigned a 
number of points, according to the 
responsibility anil time required in 
carrying out the duties of that office. 
This Point System has been in effect 
in the Margaret Morrison Division 
for some years and has proved suc
cessful. The Council feels that this 
system is very necessary in the mens 
divisions, also as low scholarship is 
aften due to overwork in the activities.
---------S----------
The results of a straw vote taken 
at Dartmouth concerning the presi
dential possibilities, were: Woodrow
Wilson, Democrat, and Leonard 
Wood as Republican candidate.
Owing to the continuance of the 
cold weather and the non-appearance 
of the ear-laps for the brown derby 
the Anvil has retired the latter and 
is now offering a rubber handled 
pick axe for its new contest. This 
will be presented with appropriate 
ceremonies to the party sending in 
the best lines, after the manner fol
lowing, about some school character. * * +
READ 'EM AND WEEP
Lies slumbering here 
One William Lake;
He heard the bell,
But had no brake.
Detroit News.
At fifty miles
Drove Ollie Pidd;
He thot he wouldnt 
Skid, but did.
Rome Sentinel.
Under this sod 
Lies Deacon Hale;
He winked and drank 
Some ginger ale.
Utica Press.
Here lies whats left 
Of Samuel Sipe
(Stopped in the street 
To light his pipe.)
Plain Dealer.
At ninety miles
Drove Edward Shawn;
The motor stopped 
But Ed kept on.
Little Falls Times.
In peace at last 
Lies Richard Perk;
He starved to death,
A salaried clerk.
Punch Bowl.* * *
For instance theres the popular Mr. 
Bill Pfouts whos always crabbing 
about his buzz saws.
This buzz saw's stopped 
Guessed William Pfouts;
His tombstone here 
Removes all doubts.
Or for another theres Dead-Eye 
Dave the village Shakespeare. Nay 
child, do not blush.
The juice is olV,
Quoth Dead-Eye Dave.
These cauliflowers 
Mark his grave.
And so on. We are blessed with 
a faculty whose names rhyme nicely. 
Trinlcs and drinks, Tarbell and
------and so on. Now do your worst
and send in your offerings this week 
and they will appear in the next issue.+ Hi *
They met beneath the moon light, 
And yet withal twas sad.
She gave away her sweet young life, 
The only one she had.
They laid her neath the daisies,
In peace shes resting now
For theres always something doing
When a freight train meets a cow.+ *
THE UPWARD TREND
In the good 
old days 
it, used to be 
considered 
very gallant
to tie a girls shoestring.
Hut now with shoetops whore they 
arc.
Oh! ((Mil Why, (oily Gosh Darn.* * +
Tiny: You seem to like our cofioo 
here, t his is your sixth cup.
Plebes: I like coffee very much
(*l.so I wouldn't be drinking so much 
water to get so little.* * +
The Older They Get the Harder 
They Die.
Heres an old wheeze which dropped 
in the other day to pay its annual 
respects.
Twas a dark and stormy night,
And the sun shone down in splendor, 
Two men wcr standing face to face 
With both their backs together.
One from his belt a pistol drew 
And severed the head of the other, 
When along the road a maiden 
tripped.
She was old and bent with years. 
Upon her facef,bhe wore a smile,
Her eyes were filled with tears.
She recognized the dying man 
And cried aloud, Who is he?
The headless man looked up and said, 
Be gorry, be golly, tis Lizzie!* * *
As one dear co-ed so t sweetly re
marked coming across the cut the 
other day: How are we ever going 
to know when spring is here with no 
Bock Beer signs on display?
From a perusal of the daily press 
we learn that a pessimist is a man 
who wears both belt and suspenders.* * *
THE COST OF LOW LIVING
Somebody found a restaurant 
Where two-bits bought a meal,
Of course we had to try it out
Such prices!they appeal.
The plating on the silvers thin 
And theres no monogram 
But when you leave, you have A meal 
Beneath your diaphragm.
Hesidos, a quarter pays the bill 
With service on the side;
And when finance enters life 
We often swallow pride.
BUT somebody found an insect 
(Orthoptcran by order).
They miss us now at supper time 
And we, the extra quarter.
-------------------
Princetons War Record Committee 
has just released a list of citations 
and decorations which is fairly com
plete. The latest figures show that 
309 citations and decorations have 
been awarded to Princeton men.
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
Y
OULL smoke a WD C more than an ordinary pipe, 
because itB a sweet, mellow smoke. Follow the old 
pipe connoisseurs and have three, four, or more W D C Pipes 
on your rack. Smoke a cool one every time. Then youll 
know what a real smoke is. Any good dealer will furnish 
you with several select shapes.
30: IYhr4( 6t CO.. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
PAGE FOUR.
A STRONG INSTITUTION
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
BollHohonloy 389
MISS OLEARY
(Konnorly with J. JO. T. Bhmmin) 
DRY OLEAN IN 0IlEPAIRIN G 
Liidlofi' and Mon'n Clothon, Oiirjioln
Work Gimrnntdoil /mil Turned Out on Short Notloo.
Will oall for nil iiroHslnir mid claiuiIiiK at Frat IIoiiiioB.
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
v BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 5 X CHURCH j
 Bel lefleld and Fifth Avenues
X Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., ' y Minister. 
j* Preaching Services 11 and 8. <
'S. Sunday school at 10.j* Christian Endeavor at 7. ^):* We want the Tech boys to at'.j. tend our serviced and loarn to ! y know us ns the congregation of I I "Friendly People. A hearty *y welcome nwalts you.
,.~.,vvvwvv.X,X~X*.XMXMiMX,<N;,,xi
A8CEN8ION EPISCOPAL CHUROHElloworth Avenue and Neville Streut DR. WYATT BROWN, Rootor DR. ROS8 R. CALVIN, Aaolmtant. Sunday Servlocs, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Mon'a Bible Claus at 10:00, lud by Dr. Calrln.All Students Qonulncly Wolcom.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Vespers on Sundays nt 7:30 P. M. Pew 68, Middle Aisile, for Tech Students.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1920.
17 Blach Degrees 3 Copying
MARKj
Third Uaited 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M and;8:00 p. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. -Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO. - N. Y.
