Should celebrities be 
superheroes?
A9
Swimming team 
gets second, third at 
home meet A12
For the ultimate 
rush, jump out of a 
plane B8
Second installment of campus nuclear policy survey
Weekly Nuclear Awareness Poll
by Erik Sorenson
Special to The Tartan
Nuclear weapons have typically 
been used in deterring a nation, also in 
possession of nuclear weapons, from 
using them. Historically, deterrence 
has been very successful in preventing 
the usage of nuclear weapons, but 
hardly successful in preventing the 
spread of nuclear weapons to other 
countries. From the political stand
point, the threat of nuclear force 
can be a convincing bargaining chip;
however, their justification becomes 
a much more difficult argument 
because the practical uses of nuclear 
weapons are few when compared to 
what can be accomplished with con
ventional weapons. Many say history 
has revealed that possessing these 
great weapons neither prevents di
sastrous wars nor does it guarantee 
victory. What contingencies could 
arise where nuclear weapons could 
accomplish a goal that conventional 
weapons could not?
For the results and. analysis of last 
weeks survey, please see page A3.
Iln your opinion, what circumstances would warrant the use of a nuclear 
weapon by the United States? (select all that apply)
a) to retaliate against a nuclear attack on the U.S. or one of its allies by 
another nation
b) to retaliate against a chemical or biological weapon attack on the 
U.S. or one of its allies by another nation
c) to retaliate against a nuclear attack on the U.S. or one of its allies by 
a terrorist group
d) to eliminate a covert WMD program by a rogue state
e) there are no appropriate uses
2 For the purposes you identified in the first question, what would be an 
appropriate number of weapons for the United States to maintain to 
accomplish these objectives?
a) 7500 e) 500
b)3750 f) 100
c) 2000 g) 0
d)1000
Please either e-mail your responses to currentaffairs@thetartan.org or cut out this section and drop it off in the Nuclear 
Awareness Survey box to the left of the University Center Information Desk.
Danielle Saudino/Art Editor
THE TARTAN
Positive
polling
After hosting one of the 
first deliberative polls in 
Pittsburgh, CMU plans 
one for students
by Claire Morgenstern
Junior Stafjwriter
On Saturday, October 29, a random sam
pling of 100 Allegheny County residents dis
cussed and deliberated health-care issues 
along with thousands across the country as 
part of the first-ever nationwide Delibera
tion Week. The success of Saturdays poll 
opens the doors for a student and commu
nity poll on campus November 19.
This Saturdays event was organized 
by PBSs initiative By The People. It was 
headed by the Southwestern Program for 
Deliberative Democracy, a partnership be
tween Carnegie Mellon and the Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh.
The topic at hand was particularly rel
evant to Pittsburgh, a national leader in 
health care and a city whose population 
would be drastically affected by possible 
state budget cuts and reduction of Medicaid 
funds. Participants debated care and insur
ance costs, health care for the elderly, tort 
reform, Medicare and Medicaid, and the 
impact of advances in treatment.
Deliberation in this sense was a discus
sion between community members on local 
and national issues. The goal was to create 
thoughtful resolutions for difficult com
munity choices. After filling out an initial
See POLLING, page A5
Staff Council 
to hold Cans 
Across the Cut
by Nicole Barley
Stafjwriter
A typical food can is six inches long. Do 
you knOw the distance from Forbes Avenue 
to the Cut in cans of soup?
Staff Council hopes to find out tomorrow 
as part of Cans Across the Cut, a new ad
dition to organizations annual sponsored 
food drive.
In an effort to garner more supplies for 
the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food 
Bank  and to encourage greater student 
involvement  Staff Council members are 
sponsoring this new program in partner
ship with their annual fall project. This 
Tuesday, students can gather to place cans 
in a line across the Cut, with the goal of 
making the chain reach from the Fence all 
the way to Forbes Avenue.
Now in its 12th year, the food drive has 
traditionally been directed toward faculty 
and staff only. Boxes, though, have been lo
cated in nearly every academic building on 
campus, making the program available for
See CANS, page A5
University to remove minors from diplomas this spring
by Brittany McCandless
Assistant News Editor
Starting next semester, graduating 
seniors may notice a minor change on 
their diplomas.
Beginning with the graduating class 
of 2006, Carnegie Mellon diplomas 
will no longer include students minors. 
However, diplomas will continue to 
list multiple majors received, and transcripts will list all information on aca
demic achievements, including minors.
The diploma is evidence of some
ones getting a degree  BS, MS, etc. It 
is not a record of all accomplishments, 
stated Vice Provost for Education Indira 
Nair. Our diploma was getting to be 
a cluttered piece of paper with all the 
majors, minors, etc. The diploma is not 
meant to carry information of that type. 
It is a certificate to the world that you 
did indeed get a degree  thats it.
According to Nair, she and Director 
of Enrollment Services John Papinchak 
started looking seriously into the matter 
of removing minors about eight years 
ago, and focused on it particularly dur- 
ing 2000. At the time, the Undergradu
ate Course Catalog listed minors as an 
addition to the diploma.
Since the first catalog in which they 
could incorporate the change was the 
2002-2004 version, Nair and Papinchak 
wanted to honor the diploma status of
minors for all students under the previ
ous catalog. As a result, they grandfa
thered the act for two years, until the 
first students coming under the new 
catalog graduate  the class of 2006.
Two weeks ago, Papinchak informed 
Student Senate that the change in diplo
mas would take place in the spring.
According to Long Pham, chair of the 
Academic Affairs committee of Student
See MINORS, page A3
Career Center 
puts time on 
your side
by Ben Hackett
Stafjwriter
Recent increases in campus recruiting 
efforts and on-campus interviews have 
prompted some universities career cen
ters to enact job offer policies. Although 
Carnegie Mellon currently lacks a policy 
that places minimum expiration times on 
exploding-job offers, the Career Center 
might soon enact one, as well.
Schools across the country have put 
policies in place that ensure that students 
have a fair amount of time between inter
viewing with companies and accepting 
their job offers. The Offer Policy from the 
University of Pennsylvania, for example, 
acknowledges that exploding offers and 
bonuses put enormous pressure on ... stu
dents to make a decision before they have 
completed the interviewing process.
Policies like Penns try to alleviate some 
of the pressures on students and keep 
professional standards elevated. If stu
dents are pressured to accept an offer too 
early, the policy states, the university has 
a harder time ensuring that students stay 
with their choices.
The University of Pennsylvania requires 
that job offers that come from summer in
ternships give the students until November 
to respond. In addition, Penn requires that 
any fall offers provide a minimum of three 
weeks response time.
At Harvard, too, career consultants are 
concerned about the effect of these [mar
keting approaches] on our students, on 
the educational process, and on the image 
of corporate recruiting at our university. 
The Harvard Job Offer Policy places em
phasis on continued professionalism and 
seeks to protect students from extraneous 
pressures.
Harvard requires employers to give stu
dents until mid-December for job offers 
resulting from a summer internship. It also 
requires that all fall job offers give students 
until February to respond. These policies 
aim to aid students in making effective 
decisions concerning their employment 
options.
Carnegie Mellon currently has no such 
policy concerning employment accep
tance, but it is looking to fill that void. 
Recently, the Undergraduate Student Sen
ates Academic Affairs committee sat down 
with Career Center staff, including Direc
tor Paul Fowler, Judith Carr Mancuso, and 
Maureen May. Student perspectives on job
See OFFERS, page A5
SHOTS?
IT SEEMED LIKE CMU WOULD HAVE ENOUGH FLU SHOTS 
FOR STUDENTS THIS SEASON. NOW WE FACE ANOTHER SHORTAGE.
by Steven Spurgeon
Stafjwriter
The avian bird flu spreading through Asia and 
Europe has started to worry scientists and politicians, 
who are becoming increasingly concerned about the 
viruss possible effects on human health. More imme
diate, however, is. the nationwide struggle to meet the 
demand for standard flu inoculations, and as Health 
Services at CMU begins its annual flu vaccination pro
gram, it too is feeling the increased burden of a pos
sible pandemic.
Standard influenza vaccinations at CMU and medi
cal centers around the United States are already at 
a low this year, the Associated Press reported. Anita 
Barkin, the director of Health Services, said the Uni
versity is beginning to experience the effects of the 
shortage, despite earlier assurances that CMU would 
have a full supply of the vaccine.
We have received only a fraction of our order, Barkin said. Other clinics, schools, and even the Allegh
eny County Health Department have not received full 
shipments.
The situation is nothing new, though. Last year, 
problems with vaccine production meant that CMU 
ended up with a shortage. Normally, we administer 
1200 to 1300 shots, Barkin said. Last year we gave
500 to high-risk individuals only.
As a virus, the strain of influenza commonly con
tracted by humans mutates often. That means that 
each year drug makers have to manufacture new 
strains of vaccine to combat the virus. In some cases, 
these strains prove difficult to create or are harmful to
ward humans  which happened last year when Chi
ron Pharmaceuticals vaccine failed trials of the Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA).
This year, production continues to lag. Roche, a 
Swiss-based maker of the vaccine Tamiflu, a medica
tion which mitigates the effects of the flu, has with
held manufacturing instructions from other corpora
tions, ignoring pleas from the U.S. and the European 
Union to do so.
Forbes magazine reported, however, that mounting 
pressure has forced the company to make some con
cessions. After a recent meeting with the EU Health 
Commission, Roche announced plans to license its in
structions to a limited number of other companies and 
governments. It will still take some time to manufac
ture the drug, and such delays could be costly.
For students here at CMU, the shortage of flu vac
cines necessitates waiting lists. We offered the vac
cine to high risk individuals first. We have another 
75 shots available and expect to receive another ship
ment of vaccine within the month. At that time, we 
will contact persons who... have registered for a shot
Image by J.T. Trollman, Robert Kaminski, and Malt Siegel See FLU, page A3
www.thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

Compiled by 
Justine Lee
Corrections'
tarifications
In last weeks article HulHer last name is Brooke, 
labaloo over the Hullabaloo 
the name of the Tulane Hul
labaloo's business manager 
was misspelled as Brooks.
This years International Festival has a spotlight on global ecology 
and the importance of protecting ecosystems across the globe. Here 
are a few statistics to keep in mind, but beware: Theyre not pretty!
Metric tons of hazardous waste generated 
each year in the world:
Percentage of the worlds species that exist in 
the tropical rainforest:
350 million
Percentage of plants identified by the U.S. 
National Cancer Institute as cancer-fighting 
that come from the rainforest:
Number of hectares of tropical rainforest that 
have been destroyed in the past decade:154 million
Percentage of nationally protected area 
in France:
Percentage of nationally protected area 
in the United States:
Sources: www.netaid.orgwww.woildbank.orgwww.wri.org
Justin Brown/Copy Staff
An environmental education
Kelly Delaney, a staff member in the English department, holds her son Kingston Cox at 
Environmental Childrens Stories and Myths from Around the World in the Class of 1987 Room 
last Friday. Delany is reading to Kingston The Wump World, a book by Bill Peet that attempts to 
teach kids to care about the environment. Featuring books from around the world and crafts for 
the kids to interpret the stories visually, the event was part of last weeks International Festival.
Executive
Privilege
ft.-----------------------------
/ Bradford L. Yankiver
More than one billion people in the 
world live on less than a dollar a day. 
Generally speaking, these people are 
productive enough to survive, but do 
not participate in greater economic in
teraction. Many of them could expand 
their livelihoods with just a little bit of 
capital  sometimes a loan of as little 
as $100 can permanently bring a fam
ily out of poverty. Therein lies one of 
the most interesting ways to help alle
viate poverty. What makes microloans 
so interesting is that they not only pro
duce social benefit, but that they can 
be profitable, as well.
Over the past 20 years, an esti
mated 7000 organizations and in
stitutions dedicated to microfinance 
have been created around the world. 
But many of these organizations are 
struggling to become and remain 
sustainable.
Among the challenges are optimiz
ing repayment rates, selecting suc
cessful interest rates, and minimizing 
overhead costs. Also, some critics have 
charged that microfinancing reaches 
only the upper levels of the poor, 
leaving the very poorest even further 
behind the norm. In spite of these chal
lenges, microfinancing won a new ally 
last week.
Co-founder and CEO of eBay Pierre 
Omidyar donated $100 million to Tufts 
University, his alma mater. But unlike 
a typical donation that might be incor
porated into a universitys endowment, 
Omidyar and Tufts have established 
the Omidyar-Tufts Microfinance Fund.
While this sizable influx of cash will 
certainly bolster the microfinance sec
tor, even more important is the state
ment Omidyar and Tufts have made 
with the establishment of their fund. 
Much of the money that has fed mi
crofinance institutions in the past has 
come from philanthropic donations. In 
this case, Omidyar and Tufts are look
ing to the sector to pull a profit.
Fifty percent of the funds returns 
will be available for Tufts to use in ad
vancing important programs, such as 
support for faculty and various forms 
of financial aid. The other half will be 
reinvested into the fund.
Successful results such as betterthan-market returns and a positive im
pact on the loan recipients will lend 
great credibility to the microfinancing 
initiative, potentially luring more capi
tal into the market and thereby helping 
more people.
We believe that business can be a 
tool for social good. Microfinance has 
already shown that enabling the poor 
to empower themselves economically 
can be good business, said Omidyar 
in a press release. By engaging Tufts 
as an institutional investor in micro
finance initiatives, our hope is that 
the microfinance industry can better 
meet the demand for financial services 
among the worlds poor, while also 
demonstrating its potential commer
cial viability to a wider institutional 
investor audience.
Microloans are generally made over 
a short term, so each dollar can be lent 
up to four times per year. At the same 
time, Tufts would be able to borrow ad
ditional money against the balance of 
the loans several time per year. In the 
end, the fund could leverage as much 
as one billion dollars in loans.
The fund will be managed by an 
independent supporting organization 
controlled by a board of trustees, with 
the expectation of risk-appropriate 
financial returns. The loans will be 
made through existing service provid
ers such as Deutsch Bank, MicroVest, 
and on-the-ground microfinancing in
stitutions, according to The Chronicle 
of Higher Education.
I applaud the Tufts program, stated 
Carnegie Mellon University Provost 
Mark Kamlet in an e-mail. I would 
think that if they design the program 
well, there would not be major risks to 
the University in terms of liability.
This sort of creative, socially minded 
investment strategy is a model for other 
investors. private and not-for-profit 
alike  but theres no reason we soonto-graduate college students cant take 
inspiration from this example. With a 
little creativity and vision, its not that 
hard to do well by doing good.
Science & Technology 
Facial expressions and stress
Forum
An anticlimactic HalloweenFootball beats Bethany
Pillbox
Vintage Vantage
AISO:
How Things Work: Tattoos 
SciTech Briefs
Can Iran be trusted with nukes? 
Say What?: Violent Palestinians
Also: 
Three Rivers film festival 
Review: Shopgirl
Lecture to break down CMUs #22 ranking in #232 0-15
by Matthew McKee
Staffwriter
Every fall, as high school 
seniors sharpen their pencils 
for a long winter of college 
applications, the internation
ally distributed U.S. News and 
World Report releases its an
nual rankings of Americas 
Best Colleges. Carnegie Mellon 
Universitys Institutional 
Research and Analysis (IRA) 
group considers these rankings 
very important, and from their 
standpoint, so do those millions 
of rising seniors in the market 
for colleges.
On Thursday, Stacey Lopez
and Melissa Taranto of the IRA 
will give a presentation on the 
breakdown of the U.S. News
statistics and will demonstrate 
how CMU performed compared 
to its peer institutions. Lopez 
is the director of the IRA and 
a former statistics instructor, 
and Taranto is an IRA research 
analyst and six-year employee 
of CMU. The pair believe that 
as number 22 among Americas 
top universities, CMU has a lot 
to celebrate about.
The IRA takes part in campus 
surveys and examines data from 
faculty and staff that they then 
feed back into the Universitys 
management. It processes the 
end-of-year surveys and many 
studies on faculty and staff. 
We reflect the institution back 
to itself, Lopez said. She and
Taranto have given this presen
tation on the U.S. News rank
ings to the First-Year Council, 
Division of Student Affairs de
partment heads, and members 
of President Cohons manage
ment team, and students will 
now have their chance to hear 
how well CMU fares in the com
petitive college world.
Taranto believes students are 
curious about the U.S. News sta
tistics. The presentation should 
give students an idea of where 
CMU has improved and where 
it still needs work. Taranto 
pointed out that according to 
her data, roughly 42 percent 
of CMU students considered 
the U.S. News rankings as very
important in their college de
cision process. The presenta
tion will show how the rank
ing compares to other colleges 
and will even present data on 
how individual categories rank 
among Americas colleges.
While Lopez admits that not 
all of the statistics are perfect, 
she sees their relevance in a 
high school environment, and 
sees them as a major factor in 
college decisions. Ultimately, 
the lecture will answer the 
question, Why number 22? 
What does this mean? Lopez 
and Taranto will provide the 
answers to this at 4:30 pm, 
on Thursday, November 10, in 
Baker Halls Adamson Wing.
Mens soccer wins in OT 
Volleyball finishes fourth inUAAs
THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 7. 2005
Weather
TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY
Hi 63 Hi 68 Hi 60 Hi 59
Lo 55 L 56 Lo 40 Lo 43
SATURDAY 
Hi 61 
Lo 52
Crime
Incident
Suspicious Person
24 October 2005 
at 04:1.0
A student was verbally as
saulted on North Craig Street 
by an actor described as having 
a dirty face and dark jacket. 
The man reportedly began 
yelling at the student and then 
followed him down the street. 
The actor was later spotted by 
police, detained, and released 
after a background check 
came back clear.
Suspicious Activity
26 October 2005 
at 07:07
A graduate assistant at Sax
ony Apartments reported that 
there was a suspicious man 
running toward a pickup truck 
in the apartment buildings 
parking lot. When police ar
rived, they found that another 
truck had arrived, and that the 
drivers had begun to wash one 
of the vehicles.
Suspicious Activity
28 October 2005 
at 20:29
CMU Police received a re
port that there was an indi
vidual with a gun at Carnegie 
Mellons building in the Pitts
burgh Technology Center. 
When police arrived, they 
found that a group of students 
were in the midst of shooting a 
project film using a prop gun. 
The students were advised 
that to avoid future conflicts, 
they should advise the police 
department beforehand of any 
prop weapons they planned to 
use.
Disorderly Conduct
28 October 2005 
at 23:51
Roughly 10 people were in
volved in a fight near the Uni
versity Center. Two of the par
ticipants first traded insults 
and then began a physical 
confrontation, with the others
looking on. The two combat
ants were issued state cita
tions for disorderly conduct, 
and one elected to go to the 
hospital for facial lacerations.
Disorderly Conduct
29 October 2005 
at 03:08
A man was reported walk
ing around campus in a state 
of intoxication. The individual 
removed a rubber mallet from 
the bed of a pickup truck on 
Devon Avenue and then pro
ceeded to walk around campus 
hitting objects with the mallet. 
Neither the truck nor the tool 
belonged to the intoxicated 
individual. When the man was 
apprehended, he was uncoop
erative. Police issued him a ci
tation for public drunkenness 
and a citation for underage 
drinking, as well as a citation 
for disorderly conduct.
Suspicious Activity
29 October 2005
at 10:31
A suspicious man was re
ported to be walking aimlessly 
around the University Cen
ter, and was seen later in the 
morning at the Purnell Cen
ter going through a trash can. 
When police confronted the 
man and checked his back
ground information they 
found that he was in fact a 
Carnegie Mellon alumnus who 
had come back for Homecom
ing.
Unidentified Flying Object
30 October 2005
at 01:02
Two students in Donner 
House reported that someone 
threw an unknown object at 
their window. The window 
broke but did not shatter, and 
the object fell to the ground 
outside. Police could not find 
any actors or the projectile.
Compiled by 
Alexandra Kilduff

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN 
Survey results: Students know little about nukes
by Erik Sorenson
Special to The Tartan
Each week, The Tartan will print 
the answers to the previous weeks 
survey, as well as analysis.
More than 50 students replied 
to last weeks survey, and most 
students claimed to know little 
about the current state of nuclear 
affairs. Nonetheless, CMU stu
dents seemed to have a good idea 
about how many weapons remain 
in the U.S. nuclear stockpile, with 
most answering that 3500 and 
7500 weapons remained. If the 
reserve stockpile (nuclear war
heads not attached to delivery 
vehicles, under repair, or in stor
age) had been included, 10,000 
would have been correct. In 
response to how many weapons 
could be launched within 20 min
utes of the command, most stu
dents stated 600 weapons, with 
2000 weapons being the next 
most popular response.
According to the 2002 issue 
of Bulletin of the Atomic Scien
tists, these counts are a far cry 
from those of 1973, when the
U.S. weapons stockpile peaked 
at around 28,000 nuclear war
heads. Since then, about 18,000 
warheads have been dismantled, 
with at least 12,000 dismantlings 
resulting from treaties after the 
Cold War. Still, the article Apoca
lypse Soon in the May/June 2005 
issue of Foreign Policy reports that 
more than 2000 remain on hairtrigger alert. These weapons are 
capable of being launched within 
20 minutes once a nuclear attack 
is recognized and authorized by 
the President, who at all times is 
accompanied by a U.S. military 
officer toting the so-called foot
ball, a briefcase containing nu
clear release codes.
Former Secretary of Defense 
Robert S. McNamara described 
that process in Apocalypse 
Soon: The SAC commanders 
orders were to answer the tele
phone by no later than the end 
of the third ring. If it rang, and 
he was informed that a nuclear 
attack of enemy ballistic missiles 
appeared to be under way, he was 
allowed two to three minutes to 
decide whether the warning was 
valid (over the years, the United 
States has received many false
warnings), and if so, how the 
United States should respond. He 
was then given approximately 10 
minutes to determine what to rec
ommend, to locate and advise the 
President, permit the President to 
discuss the situation with two or 
three close advisors ... and to re
ceive the Presidents decision and 
pass it immediately, along with 
the codes, to the launch sites.
McNamara served under Presi
dent Kennedy,' but things havent 
changed much in the last 40 
years. The hair-trigger alert 
policy not only allows for the 
possibility of an accidental U.S. 
launch, but also forces Russias 
weapons to remain on high alert. 
In fact, having Russias weapons 
on high alert is more dangerous 
than ours, simply because Rus
sia does not have the funding to 
properly update its early-warning 
satellite capabilities.
One recent example of Russias 
faltering satellite system oc
curred in 1995, when Russian 
satellites mistakenly identified a 
NASA rocket launched to study 
the Northern Lights as a warhead 
delivery vehicle, due to similar 
flight trajectories. Since 1995,
Russian satellite capabilities have 
suffered due to mechanical fail
ures in space and economic fail
ures on the ground, according to 
the article False Alarm, Nuclear 
Danger, in the March 2000 issue 
of IEEE Spectrum. This leaves Rus
sian leaders with even less infor
mation today than they would 
have had in 1995.
' Though it requires an act of 
Congress to declare war, to 
launch a nuclear holocaust re
quires 20 minutes deliberation by 
the president and his advisors, 
McNamara stated. Even for a 
game of football, thats a lot of 
pressure to put on the quarter
back.
ANSWERS TO SURVEY #1
2. How many nuclear weapons 
does the United States possess in 
its entire weapons arsenal?
Answer: d) 7500
3. How many nuclear weapons 
does the United States possess 
that are capable of launching 
within 20 minutes once the com
mand is given?
Answer: e) 2000
Health Services receives 
small shipment of flu shots
FLU, from A1
at the Student Health Service, said 
Barkin.
Most students seem to be un
concerned by the small number of 
doses. I dont really see what the 
issue is. Maybe for the elderly and 
weak its important to get shots, but 
for younger people its not really a 
problem, said Karl Fu, a first-year 
in CIT. Of several dozen students 
asked in Morewood Gardens, few 
had even considered getting vacci
nated, though Health Services re
ported that 500 shots have already 
been administered to at-risk stu
dents and faculty.
I party every night and I never get 
sick. The flu doesnt even affect hu
mans, so Im not worried, first-year 
computer science major Andrew 
Hall said, referring to the avian flu. 
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) website states
that most strains of the avian flu 
cannot easily affect humans, nor 
have there been any reported cases 
of the avian flu in the United States. 
However, common influenza can 
hospitalize up to 200,000 people in 
the United States each year.
Students who want the vaccine 
for the common flu can arrange ap
pointments by contacting Health 
Services. The vaccination costs $15, 
but is available free to those en
rolled in the Universitys Highmark 
BCBS insurance plan.
Students must present their IDs 
to receive shots, and since there is 
a shortage of the vaccine, there will 
be a wait until the end of November, 
when a new shipment is scheduled 
to arrive, according to Barkin. In the 
meantime, WebMD gives the same 
recommendation as always for pre
venting infection: eat healthy, exer
cise regularly, and drink plenty of 
fluids.
Diplomas no longer list 
minors of students
MINORS, from A1
Senate and senior in busi
ness and history, Academic 
Affairs met with Papinchak 
last Wednesday to discuss the 
possibility of grandfathering 
the change for an additional 
two years. This would acco
modate current juniors and 
seniors who, according to 
Pham, entered CMU under 
the assumption that their mi
nors would appear on their 
diplomas.
Its a pretty reasonable 
request, said Pham, refer
ring to the request for an 
additional two-year clause. 
Pham recognizes, however, 
that the University has the 
right to enact such a change 
in diplomas. Its the Univer
sitys prerogative  its their
diploma granted to us. 
According to Pham, Pap
inchak is meeting with Nair 
this week to discuss the 
request.
Grandfathering has al
ready been done for two 
years, stated Nair in an 
e-mail. For all the above rea
sons, we are now implement
ing it in 2006 because the 
2004 and 2005 students were 
grandfathered in. This grand
fathering could go on for ever 
 so I am not inclined to do 
any more grandfathering. 
Sean Weinstock, a sopho
more in H&SS and a former 
student senator, disagrees 
with the decision. As a stu
dent body, we should have 
the right to a diploma in a 
shape that wed like to see it, 
he said.
Zeta Psi Sigma looking 
to acquire national status
by Pratima Neti
Staffwriter
Zeta Psi Sigma has the dis
tinction of being the only lo
cal sorority at Carnegie Mellon 
University. But sisters in Zeta 
may soon end their local history 
as they try to become part of a 
national sorority.
According to Monica Bebie, 
Coordinator for Greek Affairs, 
there are two main reasons for 
this. By becoming part of a 
national sorority, Zeta can be
come a part of a large support 
network, she said.
Bebie added that by becom
ing a national sorority, Zeta can 
gain access to resources that 
national sororities have, such 
as training and advising for 
members. Zeta also has access 
to more job connections and 
traveling consultants by becom
ing part of a national sorority, 
Bebie said.
According to Anne 
DiGiovanni, a senior profes
sional writing and anthropol
ogy major and the president of 
Zeta, the sorority usually takes 
in 12 new members per school 
year through Formal Member
ship Recruitment (FMR) and 
Informal Membership Recruit
ment (IMR). This year, though, 
Zeta did not have any new 
pledges through FMR. By join
ing a national sorority, Zeta 
would become more attractive 
to potential pledges.
All other sororities on campus 
are part of national organiza
tions, Bebie said, which gives 
them access to greater network
ing opportunities than those are 
available to Zeta. By becoming 
part of a national sorority, Zeta 
would have access to network
ing opportunities on a larger 
scale than they presently do.
Started in 1992, Zeta Psi 
Sigma was created when Chi 
Omega decided to shut down 
its Carnegie Mellon chapter. 
The members decided to create 
their own local sorority, which 
was officially recognized by the 
school in 1995 and continued 
to grow. In 1999, Zeta began to 
consider joining a national so
rority. However, it was not until 
recently that it decided to go 
ahead with their plans.
Under the leadership of DiGiovanni and Jamie Moroco, 
Panhellenic Vice President of 
Membership Development and 
Zetas Ritual Chair, Zeta started 
looking to join a national so
rority. As Moroco stated, We 
have existed on this campus as 
a strong local organization for 
over 12 years and we feel that 
now is the time to take our or
ganization to the next level. Be
coming a part of a national orga
nization would be the way to do 
that because they can provide us 
with the resources we will need. 
We have much support from the 
current sisters, many alumni, 
and the University administra
tion.
Bebie added, By February 
of next year, Carnegie Mellon 
hopes to welcome a new na
tional sorority to campus.
Editors Note: Anne DiGiovanni 
is a member of The Tartans copy 
staff.
Justin Brown/Copy Staff
Zeta Psi Sigma, the only local sorority at Carnegie Mellon, is looking to 
become a national sorority by next February.
This Class Pays Dividends
_ ag: iW# mGet real life experience in the financial markets
Put yourself ahead of the competition In me Job 
market with hands on experience in the financial 
markets! Perform research, allocate assets, and 
build your own well diversified portfolio.
Firstrade is the ideal online broker that fits your 
college lifestyle:
No mlnimums Get started with any amount 
No inactivity fee ~ Never feel pressured to trade 
Low commissions Only $6,05 per stock trade 
Ffc&d fncotm ~ Build a diversified portfolio 
X-Stmam - Free streaming quotes and charts 
E-Docs - Get all your documents electronically
Apply online at http://www.flrstrade.com 
Start investing today, youll thank yourself In Hiefuture!
Golden
Palace
Buffet
ftff You Can (at 
&? Drink Buffet
Lvnclts $5.85 
Dinner: $6*95 
Buffet Take-out $4.25/lb,10% off for allge students
flfi
Open: li:00om'9;30pm 
7 Days a Week 
Telephone: 412-687-2288 
Fax: 412-687-8916 
3607 Forbes AvenueVisit our 2nd location downtowr 
647 Smithfieid Street 
412-338-1888
co/to rico conoue/b...
real world /tyle
  _ ,Tamarindo 
TRAVEL
www,statravei.com
spectacular beaches & activities! 
 2 nights in San Jose 
 4 nights in Tamarindo
Prom $296 
mauel Antonio
rainPorest adventure!
 2 nights in San Jose 
. 4 nights in Manuel Antonio
Prom $304
oiue/ome odd-on/!
2 daysft nighe as Arenai Volcano
Prosa $Oi
2 daus/l mate in Moncwerde*n$90,
.vists& zm Jp&tsi&iBd aocujttsnsyx -~ wwiizle netvmn mm B CoatPit Ptic&s te ^*>5 Taxas........................ tW'i
118 Me y ran Ave.
(412) 663,1061 
STUDENT TRAVELBEYOND
Luke SwaifC Cm and Building, 1834
LUKE SWANKI Ht PITTSBURGH PHOTOGRAPHIC LIBRARY, 1950-53
WE'RE PUTTING PITTSBURGH ON DISPLAY.
Carnegie Museum of Art presents two extraordinary photographic exhibitions. The first is a ma|or retrospective of the nationally 
recognized and Johnstown-born photographer Luke Swank. The second, a powerful chronicle of Pittsburgh's first renaissance. 
See both, November 5th through February 5th, and experience the city we alt remember.
Students admitted free with a valid student 1,0
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART
w fife* fcwr Cem&t f
4400 Forbes Avenue wwvy.cmoa.org 412.622.3131
jf

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Institute of Technology
Spring 2005 Deans List
First-YearsZe Tian Ding Aileen DininECECHE/BMD
Aditya AgarwalaCOOKenneth EngECE
Eugene AngCOOSusan FrankiewiczMEG
Christine ApplebyCOORyan FrishbergECE
Sona AvetisianCOOFaustinus GozaliECE
Pratik BarasiaCOONicholas GrecoCEE/ML
Keith BareCOOJesse GussECE/BMD
Lindsey BernierCOOMin HanMEG
Bhargav BhatCOOGeoffrey HaskerECE
Sarah BiltzCOOKristen HenryCHE/BMD
John BistlineCOOBrian HirschMEG
John BowlercooPo Yan HoMEG
Bradley BrowncooChristopher HoffmanECE/BMD
Robert CavagnarocooRobert HolopMEG
Siwei ChangcooApiradee HonglawanCHE/BMD
Marcus Caixing ChencooSteven HuberMEG
Jason ChoicooBasheer HusamiMEG
Jun Wei ChuahcooAvni JhunjhunwalaECE
Ekapol ChuangsuwanichcooMatthew JonesMSE/BMD
Katie DolancooGradon KamECE
Alexander DonovancooGavin KangaECE
Jared DubincooAditya KanodiaECE/MSE
Jared GoernercooSonali KapoorECE
Keng Yong GohcooMichael KasickECE
Adam GoldhammercooSunhoo KimCHE/BHE
Adam HaagcooWilliam KottermanCEE/EPP
Andrew HamiltoncooThomas KuczynskiCEE
Mark HamiltoncooDaniel LandisECE
Jim HecooHua-Xing LeeCHE
Julian HoangcooNing Sung LeeECE/HCI
Todd HoffmanncooKen Yu LimECE
Aaron HoycooTeng Ji LimECE
Hsiao-Wen HuangcooZachary MartinCHE
Yihang HuangcooTimothy MillerMSE/BMD
Christina JohnscooNicholas MorozovskyMEG
Aaron JohnsoncooPeter NelsonECE
Nicholas JonescooCalvin NgCHE
Cihan KadipasaoglucooMichael NigraCHE/BMD
Sungyoon KimcooJennifer NjorogeCHE
KaWaiKocooIan OrzalliMEG
Ming Yang KohcooSaagar PatelECE/CS
Michael KowalskicooLluis Penalver-AguilaMEG
Stephen KuhncooJeffrey PolackMEG
Erica LecountcooMichael PreysmanECE
Teck Hua LeecooKevin PruzinskyMEG
Wan LeecooJames RogersMSE/BMD MEG /Wei Jie LeecooRaphael Rogman
Yu-Chiang LeecooDevaki SaranMEG
Jonathan LicooCorinne ScownCEE/EPP
Daniel LimcooLaura Rose Semo ScharfmanMEG
Jamie LobuecooSaravana SivasankaranECE
Noah LorangcooNeil StegallMEG/BMD
Christopher ManganellocooKatherine StrausserMEG
Martin Marinack JrcooPo-Keng SungECE
Sarah MarmalefskycooChuen Hwa TanECE
Shane Mcguire cooMaureen TangCHE
Katherine MenziescooMichael TanziniMEG
Jorge MezacooAlan TeetsMEG
Steven MikescooRobert VargoECE
Sarah MitchellcooJigarVoraECE
Shihong NgcooMonica WareMEG/EPP
Tze Chang NgcooCaitlin WeigaridCHE/BMD
Courtney OndeckcooDaniel WellerECE
Ramanpreet PahwacooMary WilsonMSE/BMD
Vaishal PatelcooJessica WoodsMSE/BMD
Jennifer PetersencooChad PughcooDouglas RoblcooJuniorsThomas SaigetcooTimothy SandycooSeri Rahayu Abd RaufECEAdam SeibertcooMohammad AhmadECELaura SeitzcooAric AndersonCHE/BMDStephanie SekicooRachel ArffaCHESidharth SinghcooAdithya AttawarECE/EC0Rebecca SnydercooRamamurthy BhagavatulaECE/BMDRyanSwickcooKristopher BorerMEGHussain TambawalacooAdam BowlandCEEAlan Yukun TancooLevi BroderickECE/CSColin TaylorcooSelina BrownridgeMSE/BMDJessica TsangcooJuan Pablo Caram WigdorskyECECarlene UlishcooDerrick ChanCHEWilliam WedlercooErnest ChanECE/MSCSophia WoodleycooDiana Chan Daniel Chen Victoria Chen
MSE/BMDECEECE/EC0
SophomoresJerry ChingMEGTongjai ChookajornMSE
Shantanu AgarwalECEGerald ChuMEG/HCI
Erika BannonMEGJoel ClarkMEG
John BerezneyMSEKelly CroninCEE
Jonathan BinghamECE/CSTyler CrummyMEG
William BurkeyMEGWilliam DahlmeierMEG
Nichole CatesMSEPaul DayMEG
Andrew ChangMEG/BMDHanish DayalCHE/BMD
Chern Yih CheahECEIsaac DekineECE
Lauren ChikofskyECEBarbara DemattiaMEG
Brian ChinMEGMing DongMEG/BMD
Ikjun ChoMEGIdongesit EbongECE/BMD
Caroline ConleyMEGDavid EngelMEG/BMD
Ethan CottonCEE/MLJaclyn FeinsteinMEG
Ryan CullenCHE/BMDDevin FellMEG/BMD
Kermin FlemingECEDaniel GoldmanMEG/BMD
Meridith FryCEE/EPPYuriy GoykhmanECE
Jenna FuECELars HansonCEE/EPP
Bowei GaiECERyan HooverMEG
Andres GarciaMEGHamilton HsiaoMEG
Jose Roberto Garcia ManlloMEGBrandon HsiungECE
Robert GiacomantonioMEG/BMDMatthew IannacciMEG
Eric GonzalesCEEMonisha JayakumarECE
Anand GopalkrishnanECE/ECOLouis KalonarosMEG
Mark HairgroveECESean KellyMEG
Yuranan HanlumyuangMSEEric KidderMEG
Jessica HeasleyMEGKuok Chiang KimECE
Ka Wing HoECEJuan KoppMEG
Sandy HsiehMEGTimothy KraiECE
Kenneth HuCHEEric LamECE
Chen HuangECESze Wing LeeECE
Jasmine HungCHE/BMDDerek LeongECE
Syed HussainECERoy LudwickCHE/BMD
Dana IrrerMEG/BMDStephanie LumMEG/BMD
Erick JohnsonMEGStephen MangiatECEHeather KirschnerECEEli MarshMEGLara KovellCHESteve MarshallCHE/BMD
Nicole KowalskiCEEJessica MastalskiMSE/BMD
Nicholas LahrECEChelsea MayMEG/EPPJonathan LeeECEMolly MeyerECE/EPPHan Chun LimECE/ECOMichael MishkinECEMary MackCHE/BMDErin MurphyCEEChristopher MarshallECESonali NathECEGerard MayerCEEJeremy NgECETherese MedalleCEE/BMDTimothy ODowdCHE/EPPJared MetterMEGGene PanCHEMarissa MoriCEEShambhavi PatelECEBryan MurawskiECEChristopher PearsonECEPhillip MuttukumaruECEArun PenmetsaECEDaniel Noday,MEGSaim QidwaiECEMichael NormanMEGMichael QuiroloMEGReema PatelCHEChristopher RacusenMEGChytra PawasheMEGColby RangerECEBrian PilnickMEGEdward RankinECEMark PrackMEGMark RauCEESunil RamanCHE/BMDAneesa RomansMEGJustin RojanECEPrameet ShahECEDavid RollinsonMEGAndy ShenECE/EC0Christopher SchneiderECEJennifer SingelynMSE/BMDAmol ShahCHEEvan SmallMEGAdam Sharick *MEGBoris Sofman rECEMichael ShoupeMEGLaura SperdutoCEE/EPPAnita ShuklaCHE/BMDMichael Steinmetz MishkinMEG/EC0Michael ShumMEGHilarie SternMSE/BMDAvi SiegelMEGOrathai SukwongECEMatthew SimoneMSE/BMDVivek TejwaniECE/EC0Shailendra SinghCHE/BMDMinghong TohECE/PHIBrandon SmithCHEAmy TsaoECEBrian SylcottMEGMegan TzengCHE/BMDMitchell TaiCHE/PHILuis VegaMEGMiles ThompsonMEGPrasanna VelagapudiECE/CSRaz TiroshECE/ECOLong VuECE/MLChristopher ValarezoECEAaron WalkerMEGAaron VanderbeekMEGWai Lun WanECEWantanee ViriyasitavatECEChen-Rei WanMEG/BMDLinda WilliamsMEGSteve WasikECE/EC0Todd WilsonCEE/EPPStuart WeilerMEG/BMDJonathan WilsonECEMichael WenskeECE/EC0Yew Choe WongCEE/ECODavid WestMEG/EC0Yee Mang Vivian WongCHEJennifer WileyCEEUland WongECEJessamine WinerMSE/BMDClement Shimin ZhaoCHEAdam WirthMEGDaniel YarringtonMEGCrystal YeldellMEG
SeniorsMengyao ZheECEGerald ZhouECE
Pratik AgarwalECETanna AlfordMEGJarrett AveryECEFifth-YearsSteven Back > CHE/BMDPeter BeutlerMEGBenjamin GilbertECEBarbara BlackmoreCEE/EPPWenyao HoECEAdam BorrellMEGFaisal LuqmanECEErin BoydECEMichael NagleMSEMatthew BrockmeyerECEMatthew ReidECEJoe BurchMEGVijay ChandrasekharECEChristopher ChaneyECECathy ChangMEGAfshan ChaudhryECEBryan ChenECEYuan Thyun ChiamECERobert ChuECE/BMDBrian CloseMSEKelly CollinsECE/BMDMatthew DalkaCHE/EPPTanusree DattaECEJared DeibleCEEShandor DektorMEGBrian DellonMEGMarta DepaulECE/HISYervant DermenjianECEAnup DoshiECEJoseph ElliottMEGNikhil GadiaECE/MSCDana GaryCHE/BMDJessica GibbonsCEE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 7, 2005
Best location in 
Pittsburgh
| One block from 
? Walnut St.'s 144 
shops,
H entertainment and 
lg dining
equipped kitchen. fluffy linens, TV,VCR. digitai 
"tible movies, free locai pilone and reserved parking
.....-w..
Less than 1 mile 
from The University 
of
Pittsburgh, UPMC 
and Carnegie 
Mellon University
Free High Speed
Internet Access
NOT ALI CUSTOMERS WILL QUALIFY. CUSTOMERS RECEIVE $400 FROM TOYOTA TOWARDS LEASING OR FINANCING THE PURCHASE OF NEW UNTITLED TOYOTA
MODELS THROUGH; PARTICIPATING TOYOTA DEALERS AND TOYOTA FINANCIAL SERVICES. SEE DEALER FOR DETAILS. COLLEGE GRADUATE
PROGRAM IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE OR TERMINATION AT ANY TIME.
MACPHERSONSTHUT FRONT SUSPENSION
l|| /py/fifi lifurnt M flllff ItPCSIC+ AN/fH/wD WITH 6 SPEAKERS
+ Li-UTER 170 HP ENGINE
W eklly flUlilMUl
+ 38 HPG HWY
^ yfivtvi ugni Ain 
m IjPlJPwi RmMl*
si*f ocn
AS SHOWN
Afamm
(^TOYOTA
'EPA ESTIMATED MfG FOR 2005 COROUA SMODEt 1812 4 SPEED AUTO. ACTUAl MSLEGE MAY VARY. "MSRP FOR 2006SP0R WtMEXCUJDING TAX, TAGS AND IICENSE FEES. DEALER SETS FINAl PRICE
Get
writing
the
classroom.
If interested, stop
by UC 314 or send
an e-mail to 
contact@thetartan.org
Deliberative poll to come to campus
POLLING, from Al
survey, participants discussed 
health-care issues in small 
groups with a moderator. Each 
group developed two questions 
to ask an expert panel, and then 
reconvened to discuss the ques
tions addressed by the panel be
fore taking the concluding sur
vey. The results of both surveys 
were compared to gauge the 
effect of deliberation on survey 
response.
Deliberators emphasized per
sonal responsibility as a factor 
in keeping insurance costs low, 
and they cited cost as an issue 
of greater concern than quality. 
Participants complained about 
health cares complexity and lack 
of centrality. To get anything 
done, you have to jump through 
all these hoops, one deliberator 
said.
Some thought that insurance 
holders seek excess care because 
they believe that insurance will 
cover the costs, which jacks 
up insurance prices. Lets talk 
about the must-haves and put 
the want-to-haves away for the 
moment, said one participant. 
Whatever happened to rest 
and drinking plenty of fluids? 
asked another. Participants were 
frustrated by the medical jargon 
of medical and drug informa
tion and also expressed worries 
about misunderstanding instruc
tions or being billed incorrectly.
Darlene King of Baldwin, Pa., 
said she chose to attend the poll 
because she hoped it would clar
ify health-care policies to allow 
her to make informed decisions
for her family members. How
ever, she said her favorite part 
of the poll was watching partici
pants of all walks of life come to
gether during discussion.
Carol Emerson of Squirrel Hill, 
former president of the League 
of Women Voters of Greater
The more locally you 
hold these kinds of 
polls, the better it is. 
-Liz Style
Pittsburgh (1998-2000) and 
alternate moderator, was im
pressed by the caliber of involve
ment of participants, the depth 
of their inquiry, how well pre
pared they are, and how all par
ticipants have been encouraged 
to speak up. She hoped that the 
legislature hears the concerns of 
the public and takes the results 
of the poll seriously.
Julia Posteraro, a grad student 
in Pitts International Develop
ment Program, served as a smallgroup moderator because she 
was hoping to see where people 
in this region come together to 
gauge how much people want 
change. A lifelong resident of 
the Pittsburgh area, she was in
terested in seeing where people 
from her own region stood on 
the issues.
The technique of deliberative 
polling was developed by pro
fessor James Fishkin, founder 
of Stanfords Center for De
liberative Democracy. Fishkin
partnered with Robert Cavalier, 
a philosophy professor and di
rector of the Center for the Ad
vancement of Applied Ethics 
and Political Philosophy. He also 
focuses on developing online 
tools for deliberative polling in 
cooperation with Fishkins cen
ter at Stanford. Cavalier stated 
that Fishkin was instrumen
tal in developing a tool that 
could address various access 
and scalability issues relating to 
the potential wide-scale use of 
deliberative polls as a way of en
hancing our democratic institu
tions.
Hearing Fishkin speak at CMU 
in 2001 sparked the interest of 
Liz Style, now the project man
ager for the poll. The more lo
cally you hold these kinds of 
polls, the better it is, she said. 
Organizing a discussion for com
munity members in which their 
opinions are respected is a way 
of saying to the public, you de
serve this kind of information, 
Style said. Her favorite part of 
the day was the expert panel. 
People dont normally have the 
chance to talk to experts and 
have their questions answered, 
she said.
The next deliberative poll on 
campus, CMUs Campus Con
versation, will be open to col
lege students and community 
members on November 19. It is 
the first deliberative poll in the 
nation designed specifically for 
use at the campus level. The poll 
will focus on the issues of cam
pus diversity and moral values, 
particularly the sharing of copy
righted material.
: :
ANY NEW TOYOTA OF YOUR CHOICE
AC H f*flf Y ET*!? f*Il Mf) Vflfl U1V ffl? tff ffftfflf f*|
 w a wwlglafiiljfit UftSCsU 1 UU mrmmmm DCt fiiMilwaOwiCiK
Career Center looking into new policy
CANS, from Al
student donations as well. Now, 
Cans Across the Cut is directly 
targeting students.
Staff Council members and 
student volunteers will be at the 
Fence on Tuesday from 9 am to 
6 pm collecting food and cash 
donations. For students who will 
not cross paths with the fundrais
ing event on Tuesday, a collection 
bin is located directly outside En
tropy, where students and staff 
can also purchase canned items 
for $1.
We are hoping for a definite 
increase in collections, Staff 
Council representative Jennifer 
Cox explained. As always, we 
want to beat last years totals. 
But this is also a way for kids to 
give back to the campus and the 
community.
Though the drive, co-chaired 
by Staff Council committee 
members Gloria Dadowski and 
Carole Panno, highlights the col
lection of canned goods, cereal, 
and other non-perishable items, 
cash donations as well as personal 
care items and cleaning supplies 
are also welcomed by the Greater
Pittsburgh Community Food Bank 
(GPCFB). GPCFBs website re
ports that the organization and its 
combined 350 member agencies 
serve 11 communities in south
western Pennsylvania, in addition 
to 120,000 unduplicated clients 
monthly.
With the winter rapidly ap
proaching, this is a critical time 
for the GPCFB  not only because 
of an increased number of people 
to serve, but also because a large 
fraction of the Food Banks supply 
went to help Hurricane Katrina 
victims. The GPCFBs website 
states, We need to replace items 
from our shelves that we will ship 
south to hurricane states. Just 
as important is this time of year 
when the Food Bank especially 
needs your help to get ready for 
the winter season. Between the 
rise in local poverty rates and the 
soaring price of fuel, its likely 
demand for our services will be 
up this winter.
Because Cans Across the Cut is 
in its first year, the initial student 
response has not been as great as 
hoped for, though some students 
from the Mellon College of Sci
ence have taken an active inter
est in the project. Junior design 
major Rachel Stadelmeier said, 
I know that there is a food drive, 
but I dont know anything about 
it other than they collect food. 
However, because many campus 
events are advertised on the Cut 
and tickets are sold there, I think 
this event could be a good idea.
According to Staff Councils 
website, In 11 years, the drive 
has Collected over 46,000 pounds 
of non-perishables, plus more 
than $1500 in cash, checks, and 
Giant Eagle gift cards. Even 
without considerable student 
donations in the past, last years 
drive gathered 4720 pounds of 
non-perishable items and total 
donations of $785. However, with 
the combination of added support 
and awareness from the student 
population, Staff Council hopes 
to greatly increase the previous 
drives totals.
Editors Note: The food drive 
will run through November 11. To 
volunteer in Cans Across the Cut 
or help collect donations, contact 
Jennifer Cox (jcox@J, or for more 
information about GPCFB, visit 
www.pittsburghfoodbank.org.
instarianoNLiNE
CARNEGIE ELLONS ORIGINAL STUDENT NEWS SOURCE
Read The Tartan at home or on campus. 
Just go to www.thetartan.org.
Provocative. Practical. Plaid.
tions more carefully.
In a recent communication 
between Fowler and the Aca
demic Affairs committee, Fowler 
indicated that the Career Center 
is evaluating its current language 
in order to identify necessary 
changes.
Reflecting on their meeting 
with the Career Center, Long 
Pham, chair of the Academic 
Affairs committee, said, Our 
committee is satisfied with the 
willingness expressed by Dean 
Fowler and his colleagues to re
view current policies to better en
sure that students are protected 
during the recruiting process. 
Pham and other members of 
the commitee appear to be con
fident that a new policy will be 
in place before long and employ
ers will be notified of any and all 
changes. The extra time will be 
appreciated by the professionally 
oriented population at Carnegie 
Mellon. Pham [urges] all stu
dents with complaints during 
the recruiting process to contact 
their consultants in the Career 
Center.
Staff Council to collect food next week
Daily, Weekly and 
Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
shadysideinn.com 
(412) 441-4444
The Career Center wants to give students more time to accept job offers.
Universities such as Harvard 
have enacted these policies in re
sponse to palpable student con
cerns. As recently as this semes
ter, UBS, a global financial firm, 
gave Carnegie Mellon students as 
little as a week and a half to accept 
offers before they expired. Senior 
business major Eliott Musick, 
a student with an outstanding 
offer from Bayer Corporation, 
remarked, In the event that I 
am presented with multiple job 
offers, I would hope that these 
offers came with an extended 
acceptance timetable. This would 
allow me to sort through my opOFFERS, from Al
offer deadlines came up for dis
cussion.
The Academic Affairs commit
tee conveyed student concerns 
on the issue. These concerns 
detailed the need to protect stu
dents given exploding offers 
with a policy outlining an offer 
deadline. The committee sought 
to have Carnegie Mellons poli
cies match those of peer institu
tions. Many of Carnegie Mellons 
peer universities .allow students 
a minimum of three weeks to 
accept an offer.

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
7 November 2005 THE TARTAN ________________________ __________________________________A6
William Nicoll
There are a few things in life 
that mothers dont want you 
to return home with. Among 
them: bad grades, black eyes, 
and tattoos. Love them or hate 
them, tattoos are becoming 
more popular every year. A 2003 
Harris poll found that about 16 
percent of the U.S. population 
was tattooed, up from six per
cent in the 1930s.
Their popularity, however, 
is not new. Man has been tat
tooing himself for a long time. 
Tattoos have been found on 
Neolithic mummies, detailed in 
ancient Chinese literature, and 
discovered by European explor
ers among tribes in the South 
Pacific. The technology of tat
tooing has a similarly diverse 
history. The art has gone from 
a primitive process with sticks 
and ashes to a modem art form 
using inorganic pigments and 
sterilized needles. Lets take a 
look at how the field of tattoo
ing has progressed.
The first tattoos were very 
crude: A wound was cut and 
ashes from a fire were rubbed 
in, leaving a colored scar on the 
skin. It is likely that the process 
may have been discovered ac
cidentally. Only simple designs 
were possible with this method 
because the designs preci
sion depended heavily on how 
deeply the pigment was deposModern. times have brought 
modern worries. In the 1980s, 
tattoo guns were found to be po
tential carriers for blood-borne 
diseases. Hepatitis B in particu
lar was a threat. It can survive 
outside the body under almost 
any conditions, including expo
sure to disinfectants. Today, all 
tattoo needles are sterilized in 
an autoclave, an oven-like de
vice that heats objects to a tem
perature high enough to kill all 
bacteria and viruses.
The need for sterilization is 
readily apparent. In 2004, when 
Canadian prisons found that 
almost 25 percent of their in
mates had contracted hepatitis 
B, they decided to open official 
tattoo parlors in several of their 
correctional facilities. Inmates 
had been using whatever was 
available to tattoo themselves 
and had consequently passed 
the virus among themselves.
Now, most tattoo artists take 
pains to ensure their custom
ers are safe. A good customer, 
after all, is one that stays alive. 
If youre thinking about getting 
a tattoo, ask about the safety 
policies of your tattooist. Make 
sure to pick a design you can 
live with the rest of your life, 
because removal techniques 
are more painful and expensive 
than getting the tattoo in the 
first place. And never, never get 
the name of your girlfriend or 
boyfriend on your arm.
SciTechBriefs
Singing mice may 
model human 
learning
Scientists have discovered 
that mice sing when they go acourting. A study at Washington 
University in St. Louis analyzed 
the vocalizations of male mice 
and found that they have the 
characteristics of song: distinct 
syllables arranged in phrases 
and motifs. Researchers also 
found that individual mice sing 
distinct songs, suggesting mice 
are able to learn and modify. 
Birds that learn their songs have 
become models for how learning 
and communication happen in 
the human brain. Mice could be 
a more useful model organism 
for this purpose because of their 
genetic similarity to humans.
Source: The New York Times
Fireballs seen flying 
over Germany
A large number of reported UFO 
sightings in Germany may just 
be the result of huge fireballs fly
ing overhead. Scientists believe 
these fireballs are a bizarre an
nual meteor blitz. NASA reports 
that fireballs have been seen 
around the world and that they 
might be the result of the Earths 
orbiting through space debris. 
The NASA website also proposed 
that people are probably see
ing the Taurid meteor shower. 
Taurid meteors come from the 
Taurus constellation and peak 
at the end of October or early 
November.
Source: ABC News
MIT digitizes, maps 
user locations
This week, the MIT Museum un
veiled maps that show the loca
tion of each person logged onto 
the wireless network at any time. 
The maps can also show the 
identity of the user if that infor
mation has been made public. 
Tracking people does raise pri
vacy issues, but where better 
than to work these concerns out 
but on a research campus? said 
project head Carlo Ratti. The us
age information these maps pro
vide can provide new insights on 
space planning and administra
tive services.
Source: CNN
Women more likely 
to recover from lung 
cancer than men
Lung cancer treatments show 
the survival rate for women to 
be better than for men. Even 
when untreated, women show a 
decreased risk of death, leading 
researchers to believe biological 
differences are major factors in 
survival. It is clear that gender 
plays a role in the survival rate 
of men and women, said W. 
Michael Alberts, president of the 
American College of Chest Physi
cians. This may lead to different 
treatments for men and women 
in the future.
Source: www.sciencedaily.com
U.S. to switch to 
digital television in 
3.5 years
Since digital television prom
ises sharper pictures and better 
sound than analog TV, the Sen
ate decided that in April 2009, 
all television broadcasters will 
switch to digital transmissions. 
The move will free radio spec
tra to improve communications 
among fire and police depart
ments and other first respond
ers. The decision will allocate 
$3 billion to help millions of 
Americans buy digital-to-analog 
converter boxes for their older 
television sets.
Source: ABC News
Compiled by 
Christine deBriffault
How Things Work: Tattoos
New study suggests anger is key when handling stress
Facial expressions show 
reactions to stress, which 
affect health
by Kathy Chiapaikeo
Junior Staffwriter
How would you feel if you were pressed 
for time and you had to finish a 10-page
paper while studying for an exam that was 
worth 35 percent of your grade? Stressed? 
Freaked out? Well, have no fear. Th solu
tion to being stressed is getting mad!
Jennifer Lerner, an associate profes
sor of psychology and decision science 
at Carnegie Mellon, led a study on how 
facial expressions and stress correspond 
to a persons health. Lerner and her team 
attempted to challenge the assumptions 
that the biological consequences of stress 
are identical, and that emotions like fear
and anger trigger the same psychological 
reactions.
In this new study, Lerner related facial 
expressions to stressful circumstances. 
People who responded to stress with fear
ful facial expressions were at a higher risk 
of health problems like high blood pres
sure and high stress hormone secretion 
than people who responded with angry 
facial expressions. The study has revealed 
that understanding the relationship be
tween emotions and judgments based on
emotions or pleasantnes? is not enough. In 
addition, the study addressed incidental 
emotions like anger, sorrow, or fear that 
can linger with people after they have ex
perienced a stressful situation.
In the study, 92 participants were asked 
to complete mathematical exercises, such 
as counting backwards by sevens from 
9095 and doing arithmetic problems from 
an intelligence test. The experimenter,
See STRESS, page A7
ited in the skin as well as the 
chemical make-up of the ink. 
The Neolithic mummies, for in
stance, had patterns of parallel 
lines marked on their legs and 
back.
Tattooing techniques devel
oped quickly across the world, 
with early examples seen in 
Egyptian, Mongolian, and Na
tive American cultures. On the 
Malaysian island of Borneo, 
traditional tattooing involved 
rapidly driving a tiny mallet 
into a stick holding ink-dipped 
bamboo splinters. Sound pain
ful? Inking sessions lasted over 
six hours. Tattooists commonly 
added magical ingredients to 
their pigments during this time, 
so try asking for eye of newt 
when you get that barbed wire 
done on your bicep.
When European trade was 
blossoming, sailors began re
turning home with exotic tat
toos from island tribes. Tattoos 
became so prevalent that they 
were something of a maritime 
tradition and gained popularity 
in American ports.
In the early 1800s, New York 
City became renowned for its 
tattoo industry, catering to sail
ors looking to spend their pay. 
Tattoos were often stenciled on 
with sewing needles and ink in 
parlors or done by friends or 
shipmates. Although many ar
tistic styles and methods were 
embraced from around the
world, tattooing itself remained 
fairly primitive.
In 1891, all that changed. 
A clever tattoo artist named 
Samuel OReilly built the first 
electric tattoo gun, based on 
a battery-powered puncturing 
tool invented by Thomas Edi
son. The gun used two electro
magnetic coils as a transducer 
to move a needle up and down. 
By varying the current to the de
vice, the needles speed could be 
adjusted, and a reservoir above 
the needle contained ink for the 
tip. Tattoos that once took hours 
could now be done in 30 min
utes. The design was so good 
that current guns are essentially 
upgrades of the same tool used
100 years ago.
The new tattoo gun was em
braced worldwide. It gave rise 
to a class of tattoos known as 
flare: popular designs mass-dis
tributed to many tattoo parlors. 
However, there was concern 
that the rise of the tattoo gun 
would destroy the traditional 
tattoo arts. For example, in Ja
pan, many tattoo artists turned 
away from their traditional art 
of irezumi. Traditional Japanese 
tattooists would painstakingly 
hand-draw entire body suits 
of mythical figures and symbols 
of Japanese culture. These suits 
might take as long as 30 years to 
complete. Today, this art is fad
ing.
ROBOTS A-GO-GO!
Biologically inspired robot can walk, Sony Corporation lends two QRIO 
run, climb walls, trees, and more robots to Carnegie Mellon
by Benjamin Shih
Junior Staffwriter
With six legs and a host of flashing 
lights, a robot claws its way up a carpeted 
wall.
This robot is RiSE, the second prototype 
in the Robots in Scansorial Environments 
project. RiSE is the product of collabora
tion between 20 researchers across seven 
different research groups. The schools 
involved include the University of Penn
sylvania, Stanford, Berkeley, Lewis and 
Clark University, and our own Carnegie 
Mellon.
Engineers, computer scientists, and 
biologists from these schools are joined 
by industrial affiliates from Boston
Dynamics, Inc. The resulting project is a 
five-year, $10 million DARPA-funded ex
periment in biodynotics, or the develop
ment of robots inspired by biology.
The biological inspirations for RiSE are 
some simple animals with amazing climb
ing abilities. Professor Al Rizzi heads the 
RiSE group at Carnegie Mellon, and de
scribed the projects inspirations as cock
roaches and spiders and geckos. The 
robots ties to nature are evident in its six 
legs and fluid climbing style. As it ascends 
the wall, its easily mistaken for a large, 
robotic spider.
Nevertheless, Rizzi is quick to point 
out that though RiSE is inspired by biol
ogy, it does not mimic it. The key thing
See RISE, page A7
by Radha Chitale
Science and Technology Editor
For the second time this year since Jan
uary, crowds gathered in Newell-Simon 
last Friday for a demonstration of one 
of the most startling accomplishments 
in artificial intelligence and robotics yet: 
QRIO. A play on the word curious, 
the two-and-a-half-foot-tall silver figure 
charmed the audience with its grace and 
agility.
Manufactured by Sony Electronics, 
QRIO is a humanoid robot that can re
spond to voices and faces, and inter
act with people to a great extent. Todd 
Kozuki, a Carnegie Mellon alum and 
software development engineer for Sony,
was there to present QRIO.
QRIO is a technological masterpiece, if 
only because it is autonomous rather than 
remote-controlled. Kozuki amazed the 
crowd as he put QRIO through its paces. 
The robot performed several dances; its 
tai chi and Salsa dances were particularly 
well received, as they demonstrated ver
satility and human-like movement.
My favorite dance is Energy for the Fu
ture, Kozuki said. Its a very fast dance 
that shows how quickly and lifelike the ro
bot can move, and still keep its balance.... 
And in the tai chi dance, theres a move 
where QRIO balances on its left foot, then 
kicks its right foot out in front of the body 
and reaches for the toes.... Very cool.
See QRIO, page A7
Photos by Benjamin Shih and Justin Brown

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday: 8:30 am to 11:00 pm 
Sunday; 6:30 am to 9:00 pm
THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 7, 2005 A7
Mlfar
WE PROVIDETHE FUEL
711# SfMirfc IS your fl#fl ~ 3 new and creative 
product or approach that will change the way the world 
does business. PantherlabWorks has the fuel - 
the resources and expertise required to successfully 
commercialize an innovation - that can help kindle the 
interest of the marketplace. We work with intelligent, 
creative and highly motivated faculty, students and 
entrepreneurs who are actively transforming cutting-edge 
research into practical commerce.
Interested in exploring the business potential of an idea 
or product youve developed? Call Sherry Balmat at 
412.648.1820 or email her at scbalmat@katz.pitt.edu
Underwriting provided by PNC Bank, Heinz Endowments, and Tippins Foundation
RiSE robottakes after Spider-ManFacial expressions indicate stress levels
Yniii mVTTT #*ciNuc1 nciri nae hn licori f au 1ULL1 vivi U Lcil U IL dll JIJIluP W IH3 USlt/ll vil*
RISE, from A6
is, were not doing biomimetics, 
noted Rizzi. Were doing bio
logically inspired design. Biomi
metics brings up this notion that 
what you will do is youll look at 
biology and youll try to copy bi
ology. There are a lot of reasons 
thats really hard to do.
Instead, RiSE focuses on the
inspired project for Rizzi and his 
team. An earlier project called 
RHex relied heavily on cockroach 
physiology to construct a robot 
that could navigate uneven hori
zontal surfaces. The key concept, 
Rizzi said, is putting a bounce in 
RHexs step: [They] have welldefined springs in their legs that 
make it possible for them to run 
quickly, to go straight over very
The key thing is, were not doing bio
mimetics. Were doing biologically inspired 
design.... There are a lot of reasons [bio
mimetics] is really hard to do.
core concepts behind animal be
haviors. Rizzi explained, What 
we try to do with our biologist 
colleagues is to try to recognize 
what are key principles that the 
animals exhibit.... We try and 
tease out the most basic compo
nents of that. This distinction is 
the driving force behind DARPAs 
new biodynotics program, which 
funds several projects including 
RiSE.
At first glance, its hard to 
imagine that RiSE is adept at 
climbing. According to Rizzi, its 
body measures only 25 centime
ters and weighs just three kilo
grams. RiSE has six short, fairly 
complex legs that jut out from 
its black chassis. Each leg has a 
set of mechanical parts, allowing 
the leg to move with sue degrees 
of freedom, like human arms.
Controlling and powering 
these legs requires a mesh of 
computer chips and wires  
RiSEs brain, heart, and arteries. 
Exposed, the innards look com
monplace, like the components 
in any computer.
However, thats where the 
comparisons end. RiSE is clearly 
built for climbing  and climb
ing quickly  with springs in its 
legs and claws on its feet. RiSE 
even has a tail. Tails are very 
important for climbing, so you 
dont fall over backwards, Rizzi 
explained, laughing.
This is not the first biologically
rough terrain.
The success of the RHex led 
Rizzi and his collaborators to be
gin the RiSE project. Using simi
lar ideals, the project goal was to 
create a robot that runs like RHex 
but can climb sheer walls.
Every aspect of RiSE is engi
neered for difficult climbs. While 
its legs use the same spring tech
nology that powered RHexs 
bouncy walk, RiSE employs them 
for an additional purpose. RiSE 
uses the springs to pull one foot 
against the other, to grip, said 
Rizzi.
In nature, this gripping mo
tion is seen in cats, squirrels, and 
geckos.
Rizzi explained that RiSE also 
uses these simple springs as 
shock absorbers to walk across 
rough terrain.
RiSE has other climbing tools 
at its disposal, including a drawer 
full of specially engineered feet. 
There are several varieties of 
these, including feet with claws 
and feet smothered in an adhe
sive substance. Rizzi explained 
that each foot serves a different 
purpose and gives RiSE the abil
ity to climb on materials rang
ing from Plexiglass to wood and 
 on shapes varying from smooth 
panels to trees.
Clark Haynes, a graduate stu
dent on the project, offered a 
demonstration of RiSEs capabil
ities. The feet installed on RiSE
for its climb were sharp, curved 
claws called dactyl feet, similar 
to cat claws. These dactyl feet
 theyre just hardened wire
 we use these for climbing on 
carpeted surfaces and trees, 
Haynes explained.
Haynes placed RiSE on a car
peted wall and demonstrated a 
pentapod gait, which keeps five 
feet firmly planted and only one 
in the air. The result was a stable, 
insect-style climb up a stretch of 
wall many times the length of 
RiSE itself. RiSE demonstrated 
its agility by moving up, down, 
and turning 90 degrees to move 
perpendicular to the floor.
RiSE has complex behaviors to 
support its climbing. For exam
ple, the robot actually paws like 
a cat would to secure a better 
hold on surfaces, Haynes said. 
Its really fun to watch.
As a multidisciplinary proj
ect, Robots in Scansorial En
vironments requires a lot of 
coordination. Rizzi described 
communication as time con
suming. Seven research groups 
trying to make coherent prog
ress takes a lot of effort by each 
one, he said. My group, each 
of us spends an hour and a half, 
two hours a week in teleconfer
ences.
The project also requires sig
nificant long-term planning. It 
takes us a year, year and a half 
to get around that cycle, Rizzi 
said.
But this collaboration between 
biologists, biomechanicists, com
puter scientists, and engineers 
yields impressive results. Their 
previous robot, RHex, proved a 
simple but nimble runner. Now, 
RiSE has taken to both the wall 
and the frontiers of robotics. 
You have to be a little bit com
mitted to that multidisciplinary 
approach to make it pay off, 
Rizzi said. And has it? It has 
paid off very well, he said.
As for immediate concerns, 
Rizzi said, we need a machine 
thats stronger, faster, lighter  
[a machine] that is Superman.
Apparently, the RiSE team has 
already surpassed Spider-Man.
QRIO dances its robotic way into hearts
O Change your roommates taste in music
O Learn an entire semesters worth of 
organic chemistry in 24 hours 
if Buy food and drink at the Starbucks 
on Forbes & Craig
O 4,183
is not yet ready for commercial 
markets. However, this may not 
be a long time coming. Kozuki 
predicted that QRIO may be 
coming to homes in as little as 
five years, at least in Japan.
QRIOs could be well suited 
to meet the needs of Japans in
creasingly aged population. With 
wireless Internet access, QRIOs 
would be a font of voice acti
vated information. In addition, 
their capabilities as compan
ions are growing. One attendee 
described the robots as little 
ultra-smart pets.
QRIOs demonstration and 
loan highlights Sonys close 
relationship with CMU. If the 
event on Friday is any indica
tion, its going to have a lot of 
researchers dancing along with 
it.
Forbes & Craig
417 South Craigjuaim oitmii/^upy ouaii
Todd Kozuki, SONY engineer, watches as the humanoid QRIO dances.
STRESS, from A6
dressed in a white lab coat, had 
to make sure the participants 
were sufficiently stressed: Those 
involved were harassed and were 
told of every mistake they made. 
The participants hormone levels, 
pulse, heart rate, and blood pres
sure were measured during the 
experiment. The results indicated 
that those participants who ex
pressed anger had lower heart 
rates and pulses than participants 
who expressed fear.
Translated: people who got 
mad had lower stress levels and 
felt better about themselves.
A significant portion of Lerners 
research focused on initial reac
tions to the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, 2001. The experi
menters analyzed the responses of 
participants when shown pictures 
that induced anger, like Arabs cel
ebrating the attacks, or fear, like 
postal workers wearing masks to 
protect themselves against terror
ist attacks.
Hopefully they will develop 
a more nuanced and accurate 
understanding of stress, Lerner 
said, with regard to how this 
could affect future studies in the 
social and decision sciences field.
Roxana M. Gonzales, a doc
toral candidate in psychology 
and behavioral decision research, 
is a collaborator on various proj
ects that involve understand
ing how emotion and cognition 
work together to shape judgment 
and choice. [Lerner] and I have 
addressed everything from how 
specific emotions like fear and an
ger, while both negative emotions, 
elicit distinct effects on risk per
ception and behavior, to how the 
experience of sadness and disgust 
influences an individuals ecoJennifer Kennedy/Art Staff
nomic decisions, Gonzales said.
Although their paper was re
jected by their first-choice jour
nal, Lerner and her team were 
persistent. The results of the 
study are controversial and will 
need to be analyzed and tested by 
other researchers.
However, Lerner has received 
numerous speaking invitations, 
including the Today Show and 
Good Morning America, to discuss 
stress and its impact on everday 
situations.
The study opens a window to 
fhe effects of stress and emotions 
on health. Lerner said, poten
tially down the line, it can lead to 
useful insights for helping people 
to experience stress in more adap
tive ways.
So the next time you feel 
stressed out, have no fear and let 
the smoke come out of your ears 
instead.
to sounds.
Sony has lent two QRIOs to 
CMUs Robotics Institute for re
search purposes. The company 
hopes CMU can help QRIO make 
some behavioral advances as it
YOU PROVIDE
QRIO, from A6
QRIO has a camera behind 
each eye for stereo vision, sen
sors in its feet and body to help 
maintain balance, and several

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
7 November 2005THE TARTANPag<A8
Danielle Saudino/Art EditorCMU had an awfully anticlimactic Halloween
In the spirit of academics at Carnegie 
Mellon, The Tartan is beginning this 
board editorial with a quiz:
1) Did CMU win the Homecoming 
football game?
a) Yes
b) No
c) We have a football team?
2) What was the final score?
a) 23-20
b) 10-17
c) For real, we have a football team?
3) Did you participate in general 
merrymaking during Halloween?
a) Yes. I make a very attractive 
SpongeBob.
b) No, I was too busy working on a 
program.
c) When was Halloween?
The point of this quiz is not for The 
Tartans editorial board to encourage stu
dents to blow off work and party. But its 
important to point out that at most other 
schools, Homecoming and Halloween 
are unifying events that bring together 
much of the campus community. At 
Carnegie Mellon, these events were con
current  yet the campus seldom unites 
to foster tradition or togetherness.
Admittedly, this is a tired argument. 
How many times have you heard some
one complain about the lack of coherent 
community on campus? At a school that 
stresses individual achievement as much 
as CMU, students foci are often on how 
they can reach their individual goals, 
without looking around at what orga
nizations are available to them. When 
were left so segmented, its hard to pull 
back together again.
This Halloween was a simple example. 
Youd think that on a national holiday 
with mandates like have fun, pull 
pranks, dress up, and have parties, 
a college campus would come together 
to celebrate.
But this year, when the moon came 
out, even the fraternity quad was dead. 
Not that we should particularly look 
toward the quad for our source of fun 
on campus, but isnt that a rather dismal 
sign? It was almost as if students from 
other colleges were having more fun on 
our campus than we were.
Homecoming is also worth criticiz
ing. Yes, at CMU Spring Carnival ranks 
higher in social importance than 
Homecoming. We understand that
Booth and Buggy take the place of a 
Homecoming dance and a Homecoming 
Queen. But this shouldnt mean that 
CMU .students cant have pride during 
that fall weekend.
Before the football game, members of 
the Carnegie Clan were distributing free 
T-shirts to students attending the game. 
One member of board who collected a 
T-shirt heard the girl distributing them 
say, At least I know youll actually go to 
the game. Why should that even be a 
concern? CMU, where is your pride?
Alumni who return for Homecoming 
are proud to come back. They share 
stories of all the good times they had at 
Carnegie Tech or Carnegie Mellon. No 
one will deny that these alumni worked 
extremely hard while in school here, but 
clearly they were also able to maintain 
campus traditions and pride.
Our saving grace may be yet to come 
this March, with the impending return 
of the CFA Beaux Arts Ball. In the spirit 
of school tradition, the Ball encour
ages CMU students to foster traditions 
on campus. Without those traditions, 
Carnegie Mellon wont have to worry 
about attendance at the Homecoming 
game, because there wont be anyone 
coming home.
Dr. Ruth would be welcome at MOSAIC
The CMU rumor mill works in myste
rious ways. Just this week, The Tartan 
caught wind that the organizers behind 
MOSAIC were considering various key
note speakers for their 2006 conference, 
held in February. One name, apparently 
to be hody-debated in planning circles, 
drifted our way: Dr. Ruth Westheimer.
Westheimer, known simply as Dr. 
Ruth, is a sweet-faced septuagenarian 
with a thick German accent who looks 
like she should be baking strudel. 
Instead, shes reviewing sex toys and 
telling you how many orgasms are too 
many. (Answer: it depends on the indi
vidual.)
Known as Americas top psychosexual therapist, or sexpert, Dr. Ruth has 
worked in radio, television and the lec
ture circuit to spread what she calls sex
ual literacy. If Dr. Ruth really is a can
didate for the MOSAIC keynote speaker 
position, she would be an intriguing and 
excellent choice.
Many college students have a rep
utation of being quite knowledgeable 
about sex (through more salacious 
means than talks with their parents); 
at CMU, we have precisely the opposite 
status. Neither of these assumptions are
completely warranted  if you were to 
ask any student at any school deep or 
probing questions about sex, chances 
are they couldnt give you a straight or 
accurate answer. For our generation, far 
too much sexual know-how is based on 
urban legend, whispers, or hearsay. Our 
well-being and safety depend on our 
ability to have an open, accurate, and 
factual discourse on sex.
If there is one major advocate of 
open sexual discourse, Dr. Ruth is it. 
For those in doubt of her expertise, 
she has a masters degree in sociology 
and a PhD in education from Columbia 
University and has studied human sex
uality at New York Hospital. She has 
a nationally syndicated radio show 
called Sexually Speaking; previously, 
she had a television show titled The 
Dr. Ruth Show on the Lifetime chan
nel; she has twice been named College 
Lecturer of the Year; and she has also 
written a number of books, including 
Sex for Dummies. The woman knows 
what shes talking about.
However, Dr. Ruths approach to sex 
is far from being clinical or inaccessible. 
She is comfortable and open with any 
number of sexual topics, from the most
basic of queries to subjects that might 
be considered taboo. Recently she began 
running an advice column on ivillage. 
com; some of the issues she addresses 
there include Technique Tips and Are 
Orgasms Genetic? In a world where 
sexual topics are hushed up or skirted 
around, Dr. Ruth is capable of giving a 
straight answer with compassion, but 
without the giggles.
Would having Dr. Ruth as the keynote 
speaker for MOSAIC uphold the confer
ences goals to educate and celebrate 
womens roles in the professional field? 
Certainly. Ruth Westheimer survived 
WWII; moved to Israel and became in
volved in the Haganah, an underground 
military group that fought for Israels 
independence; studied at the Sorbonne, 
and became a college student and a doc
tor when many educational opportuni
ties for women were just opening up. 
Her choice of study since has shown her 
determination to voice both men and 
womens most private concerns, and she 
has become a master of the media.
She transcends generational differ
ences and social mores. For Carnegie 
Mellon and MOSAIC, Dr. Ruth would be 
a much-needed breath of fresh air.
Iran cannot be trusted with 
nuclear technology
Sean T. Conroy
Is the U.S. not hypocritical in its nu
clear policy toward Iran? Not only was 
the U.S. first to build nuclear weapons, 
but it also bears the grim distinction 
of having actually used these terrible 
weapons on fellow humans. Given 
these facts, how dare the U.S. oppose 
Irans peaceful desire for nuclear 
energy! Why shouldnt other countries 
be allowed to build their own energy 
programs? And why must the entire 
world feel beholden to the wishes of 
one country? The right to self-defense 
is championed by many in the United 
States. If the U.S. can defend itself 
with nuclear weapons, why shouldnt 
other countries be permitted to do the 
same? If independent states possessed 
nuclear weapons, at least they would 
feel somewhat safer from future pre
ventative wars waged by the United 
States.
Across the globe, critics of American 
foreign policy have been leveling 
accusations such as these at President 
Bushs heavy-handed nuclear nonpro
liferation policy. Many see the U.S., 
and not Iran or North Korea, as the 
worlds biggest bully. Many feel that 
if unprovoked, such rogue states 
would mind their own business, and 
peace would prevail. But the critics are 
ill-informed, and their arguments are 
specious. Heres why.
The vast majority of nonprolifera
tion experts agree: Iran desperately 
wants nuclear weapons. Even ignoring 
the fact that Iranians have admitted as 
much in the past, the evidence from 
inspections is irrefutable. The official 
line from Iran used to be that it sought 
peaceful energy. Given Irans vast oil 
reserves and limited energy needs, this 
argument is laughable. But the official 
line from Iran has recently changed 
sharply, and now no one is laughing.
Nearly two weeks ago, Irans new 
president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, 
shocked the world with the following 
statement: There is no doubt that the 
new wave in Palestine will soon wipe 
off this disgraceful blot from the face 
of the Islamic world. As [Ayatollah 
Khomeini] said, Israel must be wiped 
off the map. Anybody who recognizes 
Israel will burn in the fire of the Islamic 
nations fury.
It doesnt matter whether or not you 
support Israelstate leaders seeking 
nuclear technology who imply the an
nihilation of another state are a di
rect threat to global society. In 1995,
the launch of a sounding rocket from 
Norway nearly caused a nuclear war: 
Imagine the consequences of a direct 
nuclear attack on Israel. Given Israels 
response, nothing in the Middle East 
would be left standing. The area has 
historically been unstable, and there is 
no good reason to introduce the power 
of the atom to the fray.
Even if Iran never uses the weaponsgrade plutonium that it will inevitably 
produce in its Arak reactor, the potential 
for its misuse by others is terrifyingly 
real. If Ahmadinejads rhetoric is indis
tinguishable from that of Osama bin 
Laden, can there be any doubt that the 
aims of each are similar? Consider this: 
Recently released evidence shows that 
bin Laden has ties with the Iranian gov
ernment and has met with prominent 
Iranian clerics. Its our worst-case sce
nario, and its creeping towards reality.
Pakistan was the first predominandy 
Muslim state to obtain nuclear weapons 
(courtesy of the U.S.), and it has admit
ted to selling nuclear weapons technol
ogy to Iran, Libya, and North Korea. 
Unfortunately, a few Pakistani scientists 
had felt that it was their religious duty 
to provide this information. They be
lieved not in a Pakistani bomb, but in an 
Islamic bomb. If sensitive nuclear in
formation can be so easily disseminated 
from a close ally of the U.S., can there 
be any doubt about how freely such 
technology will flow from a state that 
claims to wield the fire of the Islamic 
nations fury?
Forget arguments about U.S. hypocrisy 
and Iranian defense, because the menace 
of nuclear weapons transcends such 
petty differences. It cant be more dra
matic: Nukes threaten the existence of 
human life on earth. Yes, the U.S. made 
mistakes in the past, but as it atones for 
these and helps Russia do the same, the 
elusive goal of a nuclear-weapons-free 
world finally seems to be within reach. 
Now is the moment for us to decisively 
step away from nuclear weapons, not to 
re-enter the Cold War with North Korea 
and Iran as the enemy.
But the United Nations is weak, and if 
it continues to allow Iran to develop its 
nuclear energy program, not only will 
a nuclear standoff with Israel occur, the 
danger of nuclear terrorism will expo
nentially increase as well. The United 
States cannot allow another September
11, and yet it cannot afford another Iraq. 
Thus the question the world asks now 
becomes personal: can we trust the UN 
to deal with this threat?
Sean Conroy (sconroy@J is a junior 
physics major who wishes that pluto
nium was biodegradable. He welcomes all 
responsible replies.
Sabram and Louissaint not 
productive or communicative
Franklin Williams
Government in any form is, and 
will remain, government. On a college 
campus, though, the governing body 
must exist in a useful form, starting 
from the top down. Lately, weve seen 
a downward trend in the executive 
offices of student government, and its 
time for a change.
During my time at Carnegie Mellon, 
Ive have begun to realize that our 
student government has become so 
self-involved and overly complex that 
it is impossible for the average non
governmental student to understand. 
Over the past few months Ive received 
multiple e-mails from students ask
ing for help in trying to learn about 
the governmental process. Strangely
enough, aside from running for Student 
Body President, Ive never been a mem
ber of any form of student government.
My intent here is in no way to attack 
Student Senate. Recently, theyve been 
working on much reform, and have 
been trying to make the government 
process as simple as possible for stu
dents to understand and participate in. 
For this I commend them.
What I am extremely concerned 
about stems from last years Student 
Body Presidential elections.
Last year, the term diversity became 
the hot-button topic. Every speech, 
every meeting, and every campaign 
platform used it as a fundamental start
ing point. To some of us, though, the no
tion of diversity was more than just a 
starting place for a campaign platform.
Our campus is riddled with issues 
stemming from a positive excess of
See GOVERNMENT, page A9
THE
JACKIE BROOK, Forum Editor 
JIM PULS, Online Editor
AMANDA FLYNN, Pillbox Editor 
RADHA CHITALE, Sri. & Tech. Editor 
GREG PRICHARD, Comics Editor 
ROBERT J. KAMINSKI, Photo Editor 
DANIELLE SAUDINO, Art Editor 
KEVIN CHANG, Online Design Editor 
JIMIOKELANA, Asst. Comics Ed.
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
BRADFORD L. YANKIVER 
Executive Officer
EDITORIAL BOARD
J.T. TROLLMAN 
Editor-in-Chief
FRANKLIN H. WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
CHRISTIAN DANDREA, Sports Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
ALLISON GALLANT, Layout Mgr. 
ARTHUR ODWYER, Copy Mgr.
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Mgr. 
BRITTANY SMITH, Business Mgr. 
ERIKA MATSUMOTO, Advertising Mgr. 
ELIZABETH SCHWARTZ, Asst. Prod. Mgr. 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Systems Mgr.
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
BRITTANY McCANDLESS, Asst. News Ed.
MARSHALL ROY, Asst. Forum Ed. 
MICHELLE BOVA, Asst. Pillbox Ed. 
ANDREW CLEARFIELD, Asst. Sports Ed. 
TIFFANY YUN, Asst. Photo Ed. 
ALEJO GRIGERA, Asst. Art Ed. 
LIZZA McGREGOR, Asst. Art Ed. 
REINA TAKAHASHI, Asst. Layout Mgr.
Staff
SENIOR STAFF
Albert Cohen, Dexter Hu,
Veronique Lee, Max Kaufmann
COPY
James Auwaerter, Christine Beaty, Justin Brown, 
Matt Campbell, Elizabeth Decker, Anne DiGiovanni, 
Misha McShane, Sheila Prakash, Greg Price, Erich 
Schwartzel, Hannah Wendling
LAYOUT
Jefferson Ahn, Connie Chang, Christine deBriffault, 
Donghee Kyung, Kristen Lukiewski, Arel Oran, 
Matthew Siegel, Ariane Simon, Shaleya Solomon, 
Jessica Thurston
BUSINESS
Karina Alvarez, Joannie Carlson, Shephalie Lahri, 
Mansour Nehlawi, Jeff Reeves, Andre Tartar
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, 
funded in part by the student activities fee. It is a weekly publication by 
students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by Valley News 
Dispatch, Inc. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 
at the discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are available on a per 
semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their individual creators. 
The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publica
tion any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from 
within the University community take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include the author's address and 
telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. 
Authors names may be withheld from publication upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Letters must 
be submitted by 5 pm on the Wednesday before publication by mail 
or to forum@thetartan.org. Comments about and suggestions for 
The Tartan and notices of errata should be directed to The Tartans 
independent Ombudsman at ombudsman@thetartan.org.
 2005 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center 314 Mail:
Phone:(412) 268-2111 The Tartan / Box 1017
Fax: (412) 268-1596 Carnegie Mellon University
E-mail: contactethetartan.org Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
k

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 7, 2005
Celebrities wrongly overshadow real-life heroes
Mercy Chang
When we think of heroes, we 
think of firefighters, Gandhi, 
Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Neil 
Armstrong. Of course, popular 
movie stars and television perso
nas come up from time to time as 
well. But when I hear someone 
mention that Paris Hilton is her 
hero, I stop and think to myself 
how ridiculous the idea is.
How can someone like Paris 
Hilton earn a status alongside 
remarkable figures like Mother 
Teresa when one of her most 
significant accomplishments (if 
you can even call it one) was 
starring in a sex tape? Seriously, 
who did she have to sleep with 
in order to earn her spot in the 
highly acclaimed Hero Hall of 
Fame?
A recent national survey con
ducted on teens views of heroes 
found that half of the heroes that 
teenagers named were well-known 
celebrities. Even more disturbing 
was that Superman, Batman, and 
Spider-Man came out as far more 
popular than Martin Luther King, 
Jr. and Abraham Lincoln. The fact 
that only half of American teens 
even have a hero tells us that 
something is truly wrong with 
our society and the values we are 
teaching our children.
I have nothing against superhe
roes. Batman, Superman, SpiderMan  theyre all pretty amazing 
characters. Hey, Id love to fly,
too. But you have to admit its sad 
to see these fictional characters 
rank in front of real people who 
have faced real struggles and 
made a significant impact in their 
communities.
Sure, these superheroes have 
saved lives, they have courage, 
and they fight the villains. But that 
doesnt change the fact that they 
arent real people. Just because 
they can shoot webs from their 
wrists or drive shiny cars doesnt 
mean we should idolize these 
characters and forget about the 
real people who make a difference 
in our own lives. We cannot sim
ply ignore the brother who saved 
his younger sister from choking to 
death, the teacher who inspired 
her class to take a stand against 
school violence, or the senior 
citizen who volunteers to help 
children safely cross the street 
after school. These people may 
not have prevented train wrecks 
or saved the world, but they are 
heroes in their own right.
A serious problem we must 
consider is the elevation of 
celebrities to hero status. 
Undoubtedly, there are a hand
ful of highly accomplished celeb
rities. Angelina Jolie is among 
them. This woman has definitely 
earned the title of heroine. Not 
only can she balance her suc
cessful film career with being a 
United Nations goodwill ambas
sador, but shes also the loving 
mother of two adopted children, 
has a pilots license, manages to 
visit terminally ill children, and 
has a love life, all at the same
time. If all the other Hollywood 
celebrities took a cue from Jolie, 
think how much society would 
benefit from their actions. More 
importantly, think how much 
more productive America would 
be as a result of the inspirational 
behavior exemplified by our fa
vorite movie stars and music art
ists.
Then take a look at Paris 
Hilton. Her activities include oc
cupying a permanent spot in the 
weekly tabloids, starring in The 
Simple Life, earning the reputa
tion of a party girl, dating Greek 
billionaires, and writing books 
on how to behave like an heiress. 
How can any of her actions be 
categorized as courageous or in
spirational? But when highly im
pressionable teenagers are con
stantly exposed to characters like 
Hilton, they have no choice but to 
imitate her outrageous behavior. 
Because real heroes like Mother 
Teresa or Nelson Mandela cant 
compete with the incredibly large 
amounts of exposure Paris Hilton 
gets, these true heroes are pushed 
aside into the shadows and what 
we are left with are heroes who 
hav$ won because of their crazy 
publicity antics and downright 
rudeness.
Traditionally, heroes were in
dividuals who demonstrated 
the qualities of strength, hon
esty, courage, and perseverance. 
Heroes in Greek mythology were 
reputed to be of divine ancestry. 
Robin Hood was a hero because 
he robbed rich landowners to 
help the poor. Rosa Parks was
a heroine because she helped 
spark the civil rights movement 
by refusing to leave her seat. Even 
Mickey Mouse is a hero because 
of the goodwill that he promotes 
throughout the world. These 
characters, whether historical or 
fictional, have positively contrib
uted to humanity in some shape 
or form. They might not have 
been able to end hunger in Africa
Erin Dacey/Art Staff 
or achieve world peace, but at 
least their list of accomplishments 
boasts more than a starring role 
in a reality TV show.
Granted it may be entertain
ing to watch people make fools 
of themselves on television, but 
when we sit down and contem
plate the trend of American he
roes, the future looks exceedingly 
bleak. If our current heroes are
the people who make the most, 
media appearances, or the ones 
who engage in the most brain
less acts, I can only hope that 
when the day comes that Johnny 
Knoxville and the rest of his crew 
from Jackass: The Movie become 
touted as national heroes, Ill be 
living on my own island far, far 
away, where engaging in sense
less acts is not grounds for earn
ing hero status.
If our values are not critically 
examined soon, this prediction 
may become a reality much 
sooner than we think. America 
needs to be re-educated; heroes 
such as Helen Keller, Louisa May 
Alcott, Paul Revere, Jim Abbott, 
and Susan B. Anthony need to 
be reinstated to their rightfully 
earned positions in the minds 
of Americans. As much as we 
are entertained by Paris Hiltons 
latest exploits, does this really 
make her a heroine? Do we really 
want to send the message to the 
future adults of America that they 
should aspire to become drama 
queens and behave like spoiled 
rich kids who run around party
ing all the time?
I, for one, do not want my 
future children worshipping these 
materialistic, extremely inebri
ated, and scantily clad heroes. 
You shouldnt either.
Mercy Chang fmercyc@J is a ju
nior economics and policy and 
management major. Although she 
thinks superheroes are highly over
rated, she secretly wants to marry 
Batman.
More contact with students needed
GOVERNMENT, from A8
diversity obsession, coupled 
with a negative understanding 
and appreciation of our differ
ences. To think that this could be 
easily solved is foolhardy. It takes 
a lot of time, a lot of effort, and a 
lot of commitment to the issue. 
Diversity is not simply a race, 
sex, sexuality, or age issue  it 
goes as far as intercollegiate relamester  a quarter of your term
 has passed and, as far as Im 
concerned, you have little to 
show for it.
All that we know of your ac
complishments are what you 
relay to us in a coherent manner. 
Although you may be getting a 
litany of things completed within 
student government, we will 
never see them, or hear of them, 
for that matter. Part of being
Half a semester  a quarter of your term 
 has passed and, as far as Im con
cerned, you have little to show for it.
tions, inter-major relations, and 
inter-organizational issues.
This is the most important issue 
facing our campus presently. It 
affects everyone and everything 
in every facet of our community, 
and needs to be dealt with in a 
very serious manner. Given that, 
I feel it needs to be dealt with by 
individuals such as the Student 
Body President.
Let me address our elected 
officials directly: As President 
and Vice-President, you are the 
elected officials charged with 
dealing with pervasive campus 
issues and making a conscious 
effort in keeping our community 
together in a cohesive, thoughtprovoking environment. So far, 
Ive seen little to none of this. In 
fact, Ive seen little to nothing of 
anything.
Maybe Im just being naive, 
but from what I understand of 
your present endeavors, not 
much of anything has been ac
complished.
If you were the President of 
our United States, a year of your 
term would be over. Half a se
president is striking a balance be
tween intragovernmental issues 
and public issues. You need 
to make yourselves more vis
ible, hold public forums, and do 
things which will make yourself 
better received to the campus.
More importantly, hold forums 
to get input on specific issues 
from the community. Hold an 
open forum to all students on 
their feelings about dining and 
other issues so that you can bet
ter understand our feelings to
wards the issues you are trying 
to accomplish.
Using The Tartan as a venue 
to address your community is a 
start, but not enough. Although 
publishing a weekly column ex
plaining your accomplishments 
is necessary and commendable, it 
is not the only way you should be 
communicating with your public. 
Im sure that WRCT and cmuTV 
would be more than happy to 
work something out with their 
Student Body President.
In addition, if you decide to 
continue to communicate solely 
through The Tartan,,you need
to begin to put more care into 
your work. Your contributions 
typically read poorly, and make 
it appear as if you simply dont 
care enough to contribute. Why 
arent you writing this week? 
Again, this is the only manner 
in which you choose to contact 
your students. This, to me, is 
unacceptable. You have a column 
to fill and you have a whole week 
to do it. Not writing is insulting 
to every student on campus, and 
does not reflect well upon you.
Please, I beg you: Put more 
care into your work and let us 
know what is going on. Im sure 
you have the best intentions, but 
Ive grown tired of being left in 
the dark. You need to be public 
and make more of an effort to 
take in the opinions of the stu
dent body as a whole, not just 
in secluded groups; speaking to 
an organization by itself is all 
fine and good, but you will never 
fully understand where others 
opinions diverge.
When I see these things change, 
I will write another piece com
mending you on the changes you 
have made and efforts you have 
taken to engage and support the 
student population.. Until then, I 
look forward to positive changes 
and a strong effort towards bring
ing around a closer, more unified 
student body.
Franklin Williams (fhw@) is the 
Managing Editor of The Tartan. 
He ran for Student Body President 
against Tom Sabram. He would 
like to make it clear that this has 
not affected the feelings and opin
ions expressed in his piece, and 
that this piece is solely a reaction 
to this years events. His office is 
UC314A.
SayWhat? Palestine must end violence
Rachel Govkhman
On September 12, 2005, 
the last Israeli soldier left 
the Gaza Strip, completing 
the disengagement plan and 
uprooting 21 flourishing, generations-old Israeli communities 
from the Gaza Strip and four 
from the northern region of the 
West Bank.
Israel has been dedicated to 
peace with its Arab neighbors 
from the day it declared its state
hood. In 2000, then-Prime Minis
ter of Israel Ehud Barak met with 
Yasser Arafat, the late chairman 
of the Palestinian Authority, at 
Camp. David. Barak offered the 
Palestinians nearly all of their 
territorial demands to make way 
for a state of their own.
Baraks offer meant the dis
mantling of thousands of Israeli 
homes in the hope of finally 
achieving peace between Pal
estinians and Israelis. Arafats 
response was neither to refuse 
nor to make a counter-offer, but 
simply to leave the negotiation 
table and start a war.
Since 2000, the Palestinians 
have waged war against [Is
raelis] , claiming the lives of inno
cent men, women, and children. 
In order to ensure the security 
of Israels citizens, in December 
2003 Sharon decided to try a dif
ferent approach. Sharon chose 
to pull out of the Gaza Strip and 
redraw Israels borders.
Israel won control over the 
Gaza Strip in the Six-Day War 
of 1967 in one of the many de
fensive wars Israel has fought 
with its Arab neighbors simply 
over its right to exist. The move
to disengage from Gaza resulted 
in the destruction of hundreds 
of homes of law-abiding Israeli 
citizens. Nevertheless, a number 
of objectives were behind the de
cision to withdraw from Gaza.
First, Israeli lives in Gaza 
would hopefully no longer be 
endangered by Palestinian ter
rorists, consequently eliminat
ing the need for Israeli soldiers 
protecting these very lives. Sec
ondly, the Palestinians would be 
given complete autonomy within 
their newly acquired territory, 
thereby freeing Israel from ac
cusations of illegal occupation. 
Finally, the PA and its new chair
man, Mahmoud Abbas, would 
have the opportunity to prove 
their declarations regarding a 
Palestinian desire for peace.
Unfortunately, since Israels 
departure from the Gaza Strip, 
history has only repeated itself. 
Palestinian self-rule has led to 
terrorism and the murder of 
countless Israeli citizens.
A week and a half into complete 
Palestinian self-rule within all of 
Gaza, Palestinian terrorists shot 
over 40 Kassam rockets into resi
dential neighborhoods in Israel. 
Additionally, since Israel relin
quished control of the Gaza Strip 
border with Egypt, Palestinians 
have been illegally smuggling 
tons of weapons into Gaza.
Israel recently made a number 
of other humanitarian gestures 
toward the Palestinians, includ
ing the removal of several road
blocks, with the intent of easing 
their day-to-day lives. The Pales
tinians have returned these posi
tive steps with the exploitation 
of Israels good will in the worst
possible way.
Palestinian terrorists have con
tinued their nonsensical killings 
of Israelis. Over the past month, 
there has been a kidnapping and 
murder, near fatal stabbings of 
two men, and multiple terrorist 
shootings in attempts to murder 
Israelis. On October 16, three Is
raelis were murdered and seven 
injured in a drive-by terrorist 
shooting at a bus stop and an
other shooting inside a Jewish 
community in the West Bank.
One of the hopes of the disen
gagement plan was that it would 
finally bring the Middle East a 
step closer to peace, a peace that 
has thus far eluded the region. 
Unfortunately, reality has been 
far from this hope.
The Palestinians view Israels 
withdrawal from Gaza as a vic
tory for terrorism, and therefore 
Palestinian terrorists continue 
to spill the blood of innocent 
Israelis. When Israel takes mea
sures to defend the lives of its 
citizens the Palestinians claim 
that the occupation continues, 
despite the many measures Is
rael has taken to aid them in the 
creation of a Palestinian state. 
The PA has announced it has no 
intention of disarming terrorist 
organizations, including Hamas.
The responsibility of stopping 
the terrorism imposed on Israel 
is in the hands of the Palestinian 
leadership. Only when hateful 
rhetoric and violence are curbed 
can negotiations of peace be
come realistic. The question is 
not whether Israel wants peace. 
The question is, why do the 
Palestinians continue with their 
regime of terror?
Charley Fitzgerald
Senior
Political Science
At a third-grade sleepover party, one of 
the girls decided to corrupt us.
Patrick De Los Santos
Graduate Student 
Music
Why are they going to the bed
room? [Patrick asked his mum.] Well, 
Patrick...
Carmen Jones
Junior
Chemical Engineering
My mom took me aside at age 10 and 
talked to me.
Roman Ivey
Senior
Political Sciences
Talking on the playground in elementary 
school.
James Uko
First-Year
Economics
[My] parents told me, Dont have sex 
until marriage'
Sex is always on our minds anyway, but with Sue Johanson, host of the Sunday Night Sex Show coming to Pittsburgh, we wanted to know:
Where did you first learn about sex?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Magali Duzant and Folasakin Oyeleye
>i

---------------------------------------------------

Get discounts at your favorite stores and 
support relief efforts around the world.
THE TARTAN
Shadyside
gNMWft I I I
Flexible Leases
Live in Pittsburgh's best neighborhood in the 
area's only flexible leased building. Rent by the 
school year and have the freedom to go home 
in the summer without being locked into a 
lease. Rent either furnished or unfurnished. 
One half block from Walnut Street's shops and
restaurants.
I Bedroom I iiliirnislied
S 7 59*
Includes all utilities plus free High Speed Internet
I I tori room FurnishedS1295**
Includes everything, just bring a toothbrush 
/ m I  I   /  B IJBBm JHL JBlJL JETJtLwJrKftliavesuites.coin
* Minimum length of lease 9 months (two semesters) 
k* 3 month minimum stay required to qualify for this rate. 
24 hour service. Resident Manager. Parking Available.
........... .....
c r AwnsaP owwb EiSSpksn 
3M Atwood  412-683-2041
Create a Posner Center Exhibit
?
SYMPTOMS OF DEPRESSION 
GETTING YOU DOWN... 
EVEN THOUGH YOU'VE 
TAKEN MEDICATION?
* Feeling down or sad?
* Have difficulty making decisions?
- Feeling hopeless or worthless?
- Can't sleep or concentrate?
- Feel like crying?
* Have low energy and no appetite?
- Just don't enjoy things the way you used to?
If this sounds like you, you may still be depressed.
The Mood Disorders Treatment and Research Program is conducting a 
research study of an investigational drug for depression for people ages 
18 to 65. The study is sponsored by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Participants 
will receive study-related medication, medical care, and lab work.
For more information, call 412-246-6111.
EAR0 #P TO $2250
Jr tLK JfclVl&l tLK
FOR 3 HOURS/WEEK 
MALE GRAD Sc UNDERGRAD STUDENTS & PROFESSIONALS OF ALL 
NATIONALITIES NEEDED FOR NATIONWIDE SPERM BANK. '
FOR INFORMATION, CALL 412-687-0358
TO SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT CALL 412-687-0335 
www.becomingadonor.com
GINZA 30 A ^ #
239 AtWOOrf  412-682-9226
Korean/ Japanese Cuisine
gets you hot deals at local businesses*
and supports critical relief efforts around the world
brought to you by
BSC Group
with the support of
*If you are a busienss owner or manager and want to participate in [the bargain 
gram, e-mail the BSC Group at theBSCgroup@gmail.com.
card] proOriental Super 
1^*$ TT^I
[the bargain<tr card]

---------------------------------------------------

equipped kitchen, fluffy iinen$, TV,VCR, digital:
Wj
Daily, Weekiy and
Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
shadysideinn.com 
(412) 441-4444
HOMEj
THE TARTAN  NOVEMBER 7, 2005 ___________________________________ All
INeecI to talk?
CONTACT PITTSBURGH 
24 HOUR CRISIS & SUICIDE HOTLINE
can 412-820-HELP
Best location in 
Pittsburgh
CROSS
COUNTRY
Browne 
scores 
OT goal
SOCCER, from A12
away a header by Joey Howie 
and then snagging a long-range 
try by Karl Dix in the final min
ute of regulation.
That was a big game for 
him, said junior midfielder 
Sean Filipovitz. We were on 
our heels for most of the match 
and he came up big. We all 
fought hard and he and our 
defense gave us the opportunity 
to pull it off.
Thats about as tough of 
a game as weve had, added 
Berei. We were holding our 
own, but they started moving 
the ball around on us and re
ally putting the pressure on our 
defense. All we needed was that 
one chance though.
Besides Brownes head-ball 
goal, the Tartans only had a 
few other opportunities to score 
since the Eagles dominated pos
session of the ball. The best of 
these chances came in the 18th 
minute when Browne broke out 
on a counter-attack down the 
left side and launched a swerv
ing long distance shot that Em
ory goalie Rohit Agarwal had to 
lunge to punch away.
Even with the victory, the 
Tartans will not win the Univer
sity Athletic Association confer
ence, the first time in five years 
since they have not finished 
atop the division. Nonetheless, 
the team has performed better 
than expected since graduating
4 key starters from the team 
that went to the second round 
of the NCAA tournament last 
year.
Its been a pretty solid year, 
said Filipovitz. But this game 
really is a big difference. Not 
making NCAAs, I dont think 
any of us would think it was a 
successful season.
Information regarding the 
teams NCAA tournament sched
ule will be available on the Carn
egie Mellon Athletic website as 
soon as announcement is made.
Swimming teams fin
ish second and third
Prepare for 
next semester!
schedule.thetartan.org
is up and ready to help 
you plan out your classes 
for the coming semester.
Sort schedules by how late they 
start, how compact they are, or 
how many lunch breaks you get.
Access your schedules from any 
computer, anywhere by creating 
a login and password before you 
create your schedule.
, ' '   1 _   I
On-Line Registration Starts November 14
Seniors and graduate students register on 11/14 
Juniors register on 11/15 
Sophomores register on 11/16 
First-years register on 11/17 
Non-degree students register on 11/18.
Check your e-mail or go to cmu.edu/hub to find your 
registration time.
Carnegie MellonATHLETICS
Volleyball gets fourth
iplace at UAA tourney
Football defeats Bethany 30-15
November7 November8 Novembers November 10 November 11 November 12 November 13 
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
FOOTBALL
SWIMMING & 
DIVING
College1:00 PM
Clifford Kang/Photo Staff
Sophomore Kerra Doyle finished 11th in the womens 110 butterfly.
SWIMMING, from A12
upset, this time winning the race 
in a time of 46.90.
We were not supposed to do 
anything near that, said Krzeminski. Against that kind of com
petition for us to go 1 and 2 is an 
amazing way to end the meet. 
We just swam a great meet, the 
whole team did, but especially 
those two races was as good as 
we could hope for.
In the distance events for the 
men, Andy Douglas and John 
Spring took sixth and eighth, re
spectively, in the 1650-yard free
style. Douglass finished the event 
in 17:07.87, while Spring touched 
in at 17:23.55. Douglas called the 
race, a good reward for all of the 
tough practices we go through. 
On the womens side, the star 
performers were the 200 free
style and 200 medley relay teams. 
The freestyle team, composed of 
Jenny Sieger, Amy Pischke, Em
ily Tong, and Lauren Connel fin
ished in a time of 1:41.47. For 
the medley event, Allie Theus 
replaced Pischke and helped the 
team complete the race in a time 
of 1:53.17.
It wasnt quite what we 
wanted, said Tong. I mean, we 
all did okay, and second place 
is definitely pretty good against 
that competition, but I think 
weve all had better races than 
we did today.
Other notable performances 
included Theus second place 
finish in the 100-yard butterfly 
in a time of 1:00.16, third place 
in the 200-yard IM in 2:17.20, 
and fourth place in the 200-yard 
butterfly in 2:13.39. Connel also 
finished third in the 100-yard 
freestyle in a time of 54.87.
In diving, meanwhile, Ju
lia Pavia won both the one and 
three meter events with scores 
of 367.75 and 245.40 points re
spectively.
CMU lost to NYU twice during 
the regular season, and neither 
game was very close. This time, 
the Tartans closed the gap, but 
again the result was the same, as 
the Tartans fell in five games by a 
score of 2-3.
The fourth-place Tartans 
ended their year with a 20-18 
record.
One block from 
Walnut St/s 144 
shops,
entertainment and 
dining
Less than 1 mile 
from The University 
of
Pittsburgh, UPMC 
and Carnegie 
Mellon University
Free High Speed 
Internet Access
FOOTBALL, fromA12
Gimson, who had 77 yards at 
the half, as well as sophomores 
Whitman and fullback Travis 
Sivek, the Tartans were able to 
take advantage of a weak Bison 
defensive line and rush for over 
150 yards in the first half.
Utilizing their strong running 
game, the Tartans established a 
drive of 55 yards that was capped 
by a one-yard touchdown run by 
Sivek, giving the Tartans a 23-0 
lead following the extra point.
Just when it appeared as if 
the Tartans were on the verge 
of a rout, the Bison responded 
with a quick score of their own, 
a 42-yard touchdown pass from 
Matt Blumer to Milton Joyner. 
After a successful two-point con
version, the Bison trailed the Tar
tans 23-8.
The touchdown rejuvenated 
the Bison, and their defense 
played with markedly more in
tensity. For the first time in the 
game, the Bison were able to shut 
down the Tartans running game,
hampering the Tartans ability to 
establish drives. The Bison were 
able to score again on a 26-yard 
touchdown pass from Blumer to 
junior wide receiver T.J. Parker 
and cut the Tartans lead to nine 
points.
Ultimately, the Bisons rally 
came up short. The Tartans 
scored once more on a two-yard 
touchdown run by Sivek, which 
sealed the victory and also guar
anteed Carnegie Mellon their 
31st consecutive non-losing sea
son.
Carnegie Mellon widereceiver Jon Kline caught a short pass during Saturdays rout of Bethany College.
VOLLEYBALL, from A12
never able to muster a consistent 
offensive attack.
The loss to Emory put the 
Tartans in position to battle 
number-four New York Univer
sity for third place in the UAA, 
while Emory moved on to play 
Washington for the UAA title.
z
LftJ
Uj
 Vk 
%smmfGO
CO
hpv
if)
LU
CC
tp
<
CC
<c
LU 
j

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
7 November 2005THE TARTANAi 2
Carnegie Mellon swimmers upset nationally ranked foes
Men finish third, women second, at biggest home meet of the year
Clifford Kang/Photo Staff
Carnegie Mellon senior Brian Hunter competes in the 200-freestyle relay. Hunter, Brad Henderson, Evan Powell, and Michael Bailey won in 1:27.35.
by Andrew Clearfield
Assistant Sports Editor
In one of the premier swim
ming and diving meets of the Divi
sion III season, both the Carnegie 
Mellon mens and womens teams 
excelled this weekend; the men 
finished third with 623 points, 
and CMUs women placed second 
with 710 points.
For the men, this meet was a 
chance to test themselves against 
the best teams in the country. 
They did not waste the oppor
tunity, winning four races and 
finishing near the top in several 
others.
We had some great swims, 
said assistant coach Loren Rob
inson. The guys are right where 
they need to be. Aside from 
Emory, who won nationals last 
year, we were right up there. Only 
a few bad races for us and ev
eryone else was very fast, right 
where we expected them.
The mens team was especially 
dominant in the relays, win
ning both the 400-yard freestyle 
and the 200-yard freestyle. The 
400-yard team of Evan Powell, 
Michael Bailey, Brian Hunter, 
and David Krzeminski narrowly 
knocked off an Emory team in 
a time of 3:09.70. Then, in the 
200, the team substituted firstyear Brad Henderson into the mix 
and still took the race, winning in 
a time of 1:27.35.
Giving a freshman the chance 
like that is not standard, but it 
worked, said Powell. We came 
from behind, and thats such a 
good feeling to bring it home. We 
really like to get up for the free
style, and thats why when you 
win its a great feeling.
The other big performances 
came in the 50-and 100-yard 
freestyle events. In the 50, Pow
ell and Krzeminski were seeded 
seventh and eighth respectively 
but swam season-best times to 
upset the field and finish first and 
second. Then in the 100 freestyle 
Krzeminski again pulled a huge
See SWIMMING, page All
CMU football slaughters 
Bethany Bison 30-15
by Kevin Labuz
Staffwriter
Last weekend, the Carn
egie Mellon University Tar
tans took on the Spartans of 
Case Western Reserve University. 
The game would not be decided 
until the last play  a game-win
ning field goal by junior kicker 
Nathaniel Greenstein.
For a little while on Saturday 
afternoon, it looked like there 
would be a repeat of last weeks 
drama and suspense. The Beth
any College Bison (1-9) were 
able to rally late in the second 
half, nearly erasing the Tartans
23-point lead. But the Tartans 
were able to hold on for a 30-15 
victory, in a game that was much 
closer than it should have been.
The Bison opened the game 
with the ball, but their offense 
failed to establish a drive and was 
forced to punt. The Tartans had 
much more success on their first 
possession. They drove the ball 
84 yards in 13 plays that culmi
nated in a 25-yard touchdown 
run by sophomore halfback Rob
ert Gimson. A successful kick by 
Greenstein made the score 7-0.
While the Tartans had some 
early success, the Bison had none, 
failing to score after two trips to 
the red zone. Their lack of suc
cess can be attributed to both the 
strong play in the red zone of the 
Tartan defense and a series of 
costly penalties and mishaps.
After their first drive, the Tar
tans offense petered out and 
they did not score again until 
late in the second quarter when 
sophomore defensive lineman 
Mike Reggie tackled Bison junior 
halfback Joe Ford in the end zone 
to record a safety. This gave the 
Tartans excellent field position 
and set up a 27-yard drive that 
ended when sophomore halfback 
Colby Whitman ran for a five-yard 
touchdown, making the score 
16-0 after a successful extra 
point.
While the Bison offense man
aged nearly 170 yards in the first 
half, only the Tartans managed 
to score. With rushing touch
downs by Gimson and Whitman, 
and a safety, the Tartans entered 
halftime leading the Bison 16-0. 
However, this score could have 
been much different as both 
teams had many chances to score, 
but were stymied by both penal
ties and mishaps.
Ailed by penalties, the Bison 
failed to develop any consistency. 
The Tartans, meanwhile, were 
able to achieve a consistent of
fensive rushing attack. Led by
See FOOTBALL, page All
Browne scores in overtime to beat Emory
CMU plays hard and maintains the hope of making the NCAA, tournament
by Andrew Clearfield
Assistant Sports Editor
Needing a win to have any 
hope of making the NCAA tour
nament, the Carnegie Mellon 
mens soccer team chose a bad 
time for a slow start. Fortunately, 
the Tartans defense held firm, 
giving them a chance to eke out 
an overtime victory.
For 90 minutes of regulation, 
and the better part of overtime,
the Tartans were dominated by 
the No. 13 Emory Eagles, outshot 16-7 and constantly trapped 
inside their own half. But goal
keeper Mathew Bazin and the 
CMU defense managed to keep 
the game scoreless until the sec
ond overtime, when CMU for
ward Jonathan Browne got loose 
and headed in the game-winner. The team officially finds out 
about its NCAA status after press 
time tonight.
That was huge for us, said
senior midfielder Stephen Berei. 
We needed to win that game to 
have any shot [at NCAAs] and 
Matt and our defense gave us 
the chance. It was just a great 
effort.
Brownes goal, his team-leading nineth of the season, came 
after William Schlough flicked 
on a Daniel Brackley throw-in 
into the box. Browne, who was 
unmarked, buried the header 
nearpost.
The goal came against the run
of play. CMU was backed up most 
of the night and it was only the 
exceptional effort of Bazin that 
kept the team alive. The firstyear keeper recorded 8 saves, 
including several on point blank 
shots. In the 48th minute Emorys 
Brandon Rust had a chance from 
inside the box that Bazin dove 
to knock away. Then, in the last 
five minutes of the game, Bazin 
made two key saves, punching
See SOCCER, page All
CMU volleyball finishes fourth at UAA event
by Alex Horowitz
StaffWriter
Competing at the UAA Cham
pionship tournament held at 
Brandeis University this week
end, the fourth-seeded womens 
volleyball team went 2-3, ul
timately placing fourth in the 
eight-team bracket. On the first 
day of the tournament, the Tar
tans advanced to the semifinals 
with a 2-1 mark, only to fall to 
two of the toughest teams in the 
nation on Saturday.
Carnegie Mellon opened the 
University Athletic Association 
Championships on Friday with 
consecutive wins, but dropped
its last qualifying match against 
number-one Washington. The 
Tartans launched their tourna
ment play by sweeping Case 
Western Reserve: 30-27, 33-31, 
30-10.
Junior hitter Catie Fisher led 
the Tartans first-game attack 
with 21 kills and 13 digs, while 
junior outside hitter Amanda 
Bradford and senior middle hit
ter Chrissy Bartek (seven total 
blocks) combined for 26 ad
ditional kills. In the win, set
ter Brea Carlock recorded 43 
assists, and junior libero Kat Fox 
recorded 13 digs.
After falling behind early in 
its second qualifying match, the 
Tartans took a four-game set
from the University of Chicago:
22-30, 30-21, 30-23, 30-21.
Fisher once more led the Tar
tans in their comeback victory, 
registering 18 kills. Bradford to
taled 10 kills and 12 digs, and 
Bartek again added seven total 
blocks. Carlock aided the victory 
with 37 assists, and Fox totaled 
13 more digs.
The Tartans ended their dayone qualifying matches with a 
loss to number-one Washington 
University (Mo.): (30-18,30-12, 
30-28).
Carnegie Mellons 2-1 perfor
mance in the three qualifying 
matches put the team in second 
place in the A pool, consisting 
also of Washington, Chicago,
and Case Western  going into 
the final day of championship 
action. Their top-two initial plac
ing propelled the team into the 
second day of the tournament, 
advancing the Tartans to the 
UAA semifinals.
On Saturday, however, the 
team lost its semifinal match 
to third-ranked Emory: 30-22, 
30-27, 30-19. In the defeat, 
Emory senior setter Catherine 
Zidow totaled 42 assists, four 
kills, and nine digs. Emory con
sistently was able to set in the 
middle of the court, which al
lowed them two options on their 
smash setup. The Tartans were
See VOLLEYBALL, page All
IIS/I
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director:
Mike Mastroianni, 
x8-2214 or mma8@
Assistant Director:
Mike Grzywinski, 
x8-2214 or immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, 
x8-2053 or kiryk@
IM Board President:
Jon Kline, jlkline@
Womens President:
Jaci Feinstein, jfeinste@
Important Dates
Monday, November 8  Soccer 
and volleyball seasons start.
Wednesday, November 10  IM 
Board meeting atll:45 am in 
gym conference room.
Thursday, November 11  
Rosters are due for three-person 
volleyball and floor hockey.
Monday, November 15  Ten
nis playoffs start.
Sports Completed
Flag Football  The champion
ship games were held Thursday 
night. The winners were Beta 
Pietras Posse (majors), PiKA A 
(intermediate), Duke Boys (mi
nors), and Hoopers (women). 
Congratulations to all the winSports in Season
Tennis  The regular season 
ends this week. There is a make 
up schedule in the IM Office 
for games rained out. Please 
report scores no later than 
noon on Thursday. Playoffs 
will start Monday, October 24. 
Brackets will be available Friday 
at noon.
Water Polo  Games are under
way in the UC pool. Schedules 
are available in the IM Office. 
Please listen to all lifeguards 
instructions.
Bowling  Sunday was the final 
day of the regular season. You 
are reminded to please have all 
scores turned into the IM Office 
by noon Tuesday. The playoffs 
will be available Monday, Octo
ber 24. They will take place on 
November 6 and November 13.
Chess  Schedules are now 
available in the IM Office.
Racquetball  Matches have 
started. Schedules are avail
able in the IM Office. You are 
reminded to please report all 
scores to the IM Office.
Soccer  The games start to
night at the stadium and intra
mural fields. Remember not to 
go on the field during varsity 
practices. Schedules are avail
able in the IM Office. You are 
reminded to please remember 
to report all scores.
Foosball  Matches have 
started. The schedules are avail
able in the IM Office. Please 
remember that you need to re
port all scores.
Volleyball  The season starts 
tonight in the UC. Please 
stayout of the gym if the varsity 
team has practice. Schedules 
are available in the IM Office. 
Please remember to report all 
scores.
A reminder that the first All 
Sports Update will become 
available in the next issue of 
The Tartan.
If you need help filling out a ros
ter, please stop by the IM Office 
in Skibo Gymnasium.
CLUBSPORTS
The Carnegie Mellon crew 
team competed at the Head of. 
the Schuylkill regatta in Phila
delphia this Saturday. The race 
took place in frigid temperatures 
and a stiff tail wind. The Tartans 
finished well in both the major 
and novice divisions.
We are especially proud of our 
novice boats, said heavyweight
racer Jon McCune. They placed 
about the same as the varsity in 
their respective events.
In the Mens Open division the 
team of Greg Collins, McCune, 
Adam Suhy and David Rice fin
ished 17th out of 46 teams in a 
time of 14:46.63.
The womens club eight team 
finished 19th out of 46 teams in a
time of 15:17.17.
Novice results, meanwhile, 
were as follows: In the mens nov
ice four, CMU finished 18th out of 
20 teams in a time of 18:40.58, 
while the womens novice eightperson team finished 33rd out of 
50 in a time of 16:40.17.
The teams next competition is 
at the Head of the Occoquan.
Football  Sophomore halfbackRobert Gimson ran for a careerhigh 105 yards on 15 carries 
against Bethany to help lead the 
Tartans to a 30-15 victory and 
secure their 31st straight non
losing season. The Tartans threw 
only sue passes the entire game, 
instead relying on a pounding 
ground attack. Gimson spelled 
Sivek, the teams starter, who also 
broke 100 yards rushing.
Mens soccer  Junior Jonathan 
Browne scored the game winner 
in double overtime to lead the 
Tartans past 13th-ranked Emory 
in Atlanta. The goal was Brownes 
ninth on the year and kept alive 
the teams chances of qualify
ing for the NCAA tournament. 
The selections were announced 
Sunday after press time.
Womens Soccer  Midfielder 
Lisa Pascoli scored the Tartans 
only goal in a 2-1 loss at Emory. 
Her penalty kick goal found the 
back of the net and gave the team a 
short-lived 1-0 lead. The Tartans 
have now lost two straight games 
and have dropped out of the top 
25. NCAA tournament selections 
were announced Sunday night 
after press time.
Mens swimming  Senior Evan 
Powell sprinted past a talented 
field in the 100-yard freestyle 
event at the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational. His time of 46.90 
was only .55 of a second off the 
pool record, set by All-American 
Chris Pearson.
David Krzeminski won the 50- 
yard freestyle race. He also was a
member of the 400-yard and 200- 
yard freestyle teams that won 
their respective races.
Womens swimming  Senior 
Allie Theus had an impressive 
showing at the Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational, placing second in 
the 100-yard butterfly and third 
in the 200-yard butterfly. She was 
also the anchor of the 200-yard 
medley relay team that placed 
third overall.
Volleyball  Senior Chrissy 
Bartek led the Tartans to a 
fourth-place finish in the UAA 
Championships in her final year 
with the team. Her combination 
of blocks and kills helped the team 
defeat tough squads from Chicago 
and Case Western Reserve, and 
finish in fourth place.
\\
\

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

contents
dwgsn, fm.psN
An innovative artist talks to The Tartan about his 
musical inspirations.
HkP,aFs HaP,aFs
Read how this site for witty T-shirts is gaining 
popularity and a celebrity following.
W.nss dksnm okpy osm,kap
A look at the films from all around the world that 
are coming to Pittsburgh.
Shopgirl
Featured in the Three Rivers Film Festival, this 
movie was shot on our campus and tells the story 
of a janitor at a prestigious university.
;wykjm
This rabbit has a dark secret. Find out what it is 
in this weeks Tyler & Fred!
;apsPban
Find out whats going on this week after your 
parents leave town.
Courtesy of CMU Explorers
After a long week of hitting the books, these Carnegie Mellon 
students unwind by skydiving with the Explorers Club. Read 
about how the program developed and how you can get 
involved as well.
STAFF
M?sji,ks U((kjsn )
Mbk,wnDkPD;.ks( ) 
qaPaFkPF Mbk,wn ) 
7kppgw? Mbk,wn ) 
fmmkm,aP, 7kppgw? Mbk,wn ) 
;wykjm Mbk,wn ) 
7.w,w Mbk,wn )
fn, Mbk,wn ) 
;wSN qaPaFsn ) 
7nwbij,kwP qaPaFsn ) 
haNwi, qaPaFsn )
Bradford L. Yankiver 
J.T. Trollman 
Franklin Williams 
Amanda Flynn 
Michelle Bova 
Greg Prichard 
Robert J. Kaminski 
Danielle Saudino 
Arthur 0Dwyer 
Evan Sundwick 
Allison Gallant
Cover by Robert Kaminski 
Photo courtesy of CMU Explorers 
The Tartan 
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
www.thetartan.org 
 2005 The Tartan
2dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

film.
Shopgirl hits theaters
Steve Martin veers from the typical romantic comedy
More realistic than the average love story, Shopgirl is one of the few romantic movies without a Cinderella ending.
Shopgirl tells the story of a young woman, 
Mirabelle, played by Claire Danes, whose search for love puts her on an emotional rollercoaster. Ray Porter, played by Steve Martin, is a 50-something detached divorce who finds himself overcome with Mirabelles simplistic beauty.
However, to complicate matters, Mirabelle is also courted by Rays polar opposite, Jeremy. Played by Jason Schwartzman, Jeremy, is a rough and uncultured young man with no purpose in life until he is rejected by Mirabelle. Ray, who comes to love Mirabelle but cant bring himself to show it, is eventually replaced in her life by Jeremy. The story begins with Mirabelle questioning, Why me? and ends without ever answering.
While the movie originally sets itself up as a typical romantic comedy, its likely to surprise the average viewer. From artificial sex scenes, unrealistic plot twists, and random narration from Steve Martin, Shopgirl is not likely to be categorized as a typical love story. More true to life, its ending leaves the audience with the impression that Mirabelle finds love in the most unlikely place, while finding artistic success from a broken heart.
Steve Martin, who also co-produced the movie based on his novella, does not at first seem like the type of serious character who would play Ray as well as he does. However, after a few moments it becomes clear that his character is a reflection of himself. And while the other characters seem to mesh well into reality, too often there is a serious tone that cant be overcome.
Jason Schwartzman seems to be the only comedic relief in the entire movie. A 17-yearold at heart stuck in a 20-somethings body, Schwartzmans character, Jeremy, transforms from an uncultured teenager into a mature adult who finds himself through a series of self-help books on tape.
Without doting on Claire Danes previous movies, her character, Mirabelle Buttersfeld, takes her to new heights. Elegantly portrayed
as a mildly depressed young woman, Claire Danes develops Mirabelle to mirror what many women want to define love as: 
sophistication meets money. Eventually Mirabelle realizes that her less-than-perfect love affair with Ray is going nowhere quickly. Her story of heartbreak is believable, and makes her character relatable.
Shopgirl is a rare movie in the romance genre, yet its still not impressive enough to leave you with a lasting memory. While it is well-produced, well-written, and not-sowell-matched, Shopgirl is a more modern and realistic view on what typical romance movies should be. Entertaining, and mildly humorous, it is not a movie for young lovers looking for a good laugh and a happy ending. Mature audiences, beware, however. A casual sense of humor is needed to fully enjoy the message of the story: Thats life.
Carrent pusair 
Cmueoi ydtliedai
shopgirl
Courtesy of vmw.imdb.com
Shopgirl stars Steve Martin, Claire Danes, and 
Jason Schwartzman.
5kb You APwe0
50 YEARS AGO 
November 8,1955
Increasing numbers of pep rallies met with mixed feelings from the campus at large, The Tartan reported. Though pep rallies in the past had drawn crowds, more recent rallies werent getting much respect. Fraternity houses greeted the impending rally with an enthusiasm which ranged from indifference to actual antagonism, The Tartan wrote.
YEARS AGO 
November 4,1980
The big dance came back to Carnegie Mellon. AB began the Nuts and Bolts party ...to bring back the good times and anticipation that dances used to 
cause in the old days. We urged students to go to the Nuts and Bolts party and dance the night away. Oh, Tartan of 1980,1 am with you there. I miss the prom, too! Okay, so my date ditched me for the spiked punch and my panty
hose got no fewer than three snags. But I totally got down and funky during The Train.
10 YEARS AGO 
November 6,1995
One Tartan editorial writer pondered the quirks of the English language, including the way some words sound like their meanings, and others dont. The writer explained: Musty, moist panties. I refuse to explain how this came up in conversation, but it sounds like what it is. No question. I am absolutely certain as to how the phrase musty, moist panties came up in conversation. But I refuse to reveal how it happened.
5 YEARS AGO 
November 6,2000
Quaker Oats Co. saw a great rise in stock prices as a bidding war for the company began, The Tartan reported off the AP wire. Pepsi and Nestle were the two big bidders for the Oatmeal Company, which also makes Gatorade. The headline described the competition to buy Quaker Oats as a bidding war. And you thought Quakers were pacifists. Reports were floating around that the Oat Man was disheartened by all the fighting, and said, Why cant we all just get along?
1 YEAR AGO
November 8,2004
Several college students protested Ringling Bros, and Barnum & Bailey Circus animal cruelty. Some members of the protesting group went on a hunger strike, such was their passion about the issue. Lucky for the hungry kids, a sympathetic elephant stopped by on the third night and dropped off a bag of peanuts. Aww.
w.theaae rnog 
TUU.UEgSE D.aaAnY WN.EnH
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl3

---------------------------------------------------

turntable.
Robert Ashley receives acclaim for Celestial Excursions
Blending electronic synthesis, piano, and the spoken word to put a new twist on opera
Too many peoples experiences with opera involve a phantom, an Andrew Lloyd Webber score, or an image of a robust group of women with horned hats screeching piercingly high notes. In short, a modern composer with an intelligently designed opera of soft-spoken voices is a 
breath of fresh air.
This year, Celestial Excursions by Robert Ashley received its first release on compact disc, and for any fan of wellconstructed and deeply affecting art, it presents a gem worthy of discovery. Focused on the human condition of old age and the accumulation of experiences that burden 
man as he progresses through time, Excursions uses five distinct voices to represent a character that has many stories to tell and feelings to share. Ashley says that all the events in his opera came from true happenings, and that all of the experiences related to the audience he felt 
a connection with.
The voices chase each other and weave in and out of the musical score to form a wonderful tapestry of narratives 
and images. Ashley tightly controls the atmosphere of his work, and everything sounds perfecdy in place. The expert ease with which the singers seem to work together sometimes creates a dreamlike experience, for each word they sing together and line they speak simultaneously is almost too good to be true.
To say that Celestial Excursions fits in the mold of the
aforementioned stereotypes of opera would show a gross ignorance of the whole flexibility of the genre, for while the piece uses the typical story-put-to-music form of opera, its text and accompaniment work differently than 
one would think.
For one, Ashley does not use a live orchestra. His accompaniment music comes from electronic synthesizers and a pianist who interjects musically at times, but for the most part, the stage upon which Excursions is set works with five singers at desks, a silent dancer, and a pianist.
Ashley made the music enhance the text as it should, yet the electronic interjections defy a conventional notion of an orchestral setting, and in this manner it can catch many off guard. Ashley stated that one contribution to his field was the songs that are focused on a certain pitch....You will have to listen more carefully and rethink your idea about what singing is.
Certainly the opera treats its theme of old age extraordinarily well, and its phantasmagoric presentation of events invites the audience to apply their own experiences to the opera, and thus give it so much more depth. The opera opens with, A group of so-called fictitious characters is just as bad as a group of so-called real ones, and convinces its audience to see their own lives as connect with the old men and women who now can only spend time reflecting upon what has passed them.
The elderly men and women of this piece who tell their stories of sadness change in the first and third acts of this opera. The second act involves a discussion between four old men and women and their counselor at an assisted living facility about the elderly desire to lift a burden. Ashley stated that this burden is old age, and in the opera the counselor points out that everyone must bear this burden. The discussion involves many witty cultural references that help lighten the burden, but it keeps itself 
meaningful and well structured.
Ashleys stream-of-consciousness approach to the stories smacks of a James Joyce novel, and this can scare many away from his work. The key to unlocking it is an open mind. Ashley wrote such a strong libretto with deep emotion that shirking it for its unconventional prose would make one miss so much.
Having written over 50 hours of opera in his 75 years of living, Robert Ashley will continue to present more innovations to the opera world. He has written two new librettos for operas that will premiere in New York in 2007. Even at an old age that Celestial Excursions addresses, Ashley keeps trying to push the envelope. Composing is like computer programming, he explained. You use what you know and then add new ideas.
AtddBal Ancaa 
ydtliedai
$ movie
by evan sundwick
Some Like It Hot
3sbPsmbaN1 2wsygsn - 
xCIO91r91rTIO9
Movies with guys dressing up as 
women are usually pretty funny, espe
cially if theyre from the 1950s, when 
homogeneity and social norms were 
values to be appreciated. This movie 
stars the late  but nonetheless awe
some  Jack Lemmon, as well as oldschool bombshell Marilyn Monroe. 
Lemmon plays a musician who goes on 
the run with his friend after becoming 
a witness to a mob crime, and to stay 
under the radar, they dress as women 
and start touring with an all-girls band. 
Hilarity surely ensues.
Days of Heaven
W.inmbaN1 2wsygsn r9 
x1r91rT
Surprisingly, at one point in his life 
Richard Gere actually had hair a color 
other than grey. He stars in this classic 
as a farmer who falls in love with a girl 
and has no money; so even though they 
love each other, he has her marry a sick 
old rich man. Theoretically, the old guy 
would die, theyd get his money and be 
able to start a life together. Not only is 
this an unconscionable plan, but it also 
doesnt work, and then ol Richard Gere 
is in a whole heap of trouble. Will he 
get out of it? Stay tuned.
Revenge of the Sith
onkbaN1 2wsygsn rr 
xC1r91r
Star Wars night at Carnegie Mellon is 
always quite a spectacle, and this year 
should be no exception. Watch prettyboy Anakin Skywalker slowly descend 
to the dark side, tempted by a wrinkly 
old man. Also, see the lovely Natalie 
Portman deliver terrible dialogue with 
zero emotion even after the script was, 
as legend has it, tweaked by awardwinning playwright Tom Stoppard. 
Expect people in cloaks, people with 
lightsabers, hecklers, and people curs
ing at George Lucas under their breath. 
Maybe if youre lucky youll also run 
into a drunk kid puking during the 
opening space battle scene thanks to 
Lucas kinetic camera work.
The Island
Ea,inbaN1 2wsygsn rT 
xCIO91r91rTIO9
If you want a different kind of 
spectacle, look no further than Mi
chael Bays stillborn sci-fi tale The Is
land. This movie yvas the biggest flop 
of the summer and Bays first failure 
in years. Many people said it was even 
worse than Pearl Harbor, and while in 
this case there is no sacred history to 
desecrate, there is plenty of audience 
intelligence to insult. The Island also 
supposedly contains the most shame
less product placement and in-film ad
vertising in any movie, ever. On the 
plus side, Scarlett Johansson is pretty 
hot.
TBA
EiPbaN1 2wsygsn rO 
x1r91rT
Do you know what a TBA on the film 
schedule means? I do, but unfortu
nately I cant actually tell you. Its 
sort of a secret. If youve been here 
for more than a year you probably 
know already. If youre a first-year, 
ask somebody older than you. Itll 
be a good learning experience. What 
I can tell you, though, is that it will 
be worth it... Bring your friends and 
bring some silly string. Youve been 
warned. Pirate booty paid for this one
 its the most expensive film of its 
kind ever made.
4Pillbox. 7 November 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

Not-so-serious designer fashion
An up-and-coming website gaining celebrity attention
if esty les.
John Keddies favorite T-shirt reads Im Serious. He says it speaks to his personality. Why? Because Im not. But I am. But reverse psychology doesnt work. Wait, yes it does.
What? If youre baffled, vintagevantage.com might not be the site for you  but it was the right career choice for John Keddie.
If, however, you are the kind of person always looking to get a reaction from people, Vintage Vantage might be the place for you to start your online T-shirt shopping. Shirts from Vintage Vantage sport phrases and' logos such as 
the two above, with slogans like Advertising helps me decide, Lets hear it for sign language, and Cops love me, included in the lineup.
Granted, this humor doesnt appeal to everyone. Youre sure to get a couple looks if youre wearing the shirt that reads, Women, followed by, You cant beat em! Or, We be illin, followed by Sacred Heart Childrens Hospital.
It takes a certain grouping of people to design and sell these shirts: a group of six San Diego natives headed by founder John Keddie, to be exact. Keddies story runs like a mini American dream. He grew up wanting to be a probasketball player, graduated college, and went on to work in the cubicle-oriented corporate world.
But then, of course, he got layed off.
At that point, Keddie said, I decided that I didnt want to jump right back into another office job and since I had always loved vintage t-shirts, I decided to try my hand selling them on eBay. That was 2001, when Keddie was just 22 years old. Now, at 25, Keddie has moved off eBay and has established his own flourishing business.
Vintagevantage.com has always been a pretty low-key website. Its evolved in much the same fashion that Keddie developed the original idea of the website: haphazardly.
With a laid-back take on finding a specific marketing audience (We definitely make stuff that we personally enjoy, so our target audience would be people like us), market competition (I guess you could say anybody who makes T-shirts is our competition, because people usually only wear one T-shirt at once), or offensive slogans (There are definitely some shirts we make that are not for everybodywe have a pretty twisted sense of humor sometimes), Keddie and his company are trying to find the right audience.
Vintage Vantage relies mainly on the word-of-mouth method of advertising. Since the humor in the T-shirts they create is pretty specific to certain kinds of people, they leave advertising up to their own clients. Keddie said, Were lucky enough to have a lot of customers who dig our stuff enough to tell their friends about it.... With the Internet and e-mail, word can spread pretty quickly.
Additionally, Vintage Vantage works hard to keep things fresh for their regular costumers by making shopping for vintage tees more than just online shopping. They always update the site with new merchandise, model bios, and contests. The latest contest they hosted dealt with Photoshop; other competitions have included sending in photos of you and your friends wearing Vintage Vantage tees at school. And if you wear these tees around school, youll be in good company: Adam Brody of OC fame is just one of a few celebrities who have been spotted wearing these tees.
Due to the success Keddie and his staff have experienced with Vintage Vantage, they started another website that celebrates San Diegos premiere kickball team, the Kitshickers. Theyve also discussed opening a store, but decided to hold off for a bit. At this point were happy with our online storefront. We do distribute our clothes to retail stores around the world, and were always expanding Vintage Vantage in new ways, so opening a retail store in the future is not out of the question. Some of those retail shops include the ever-popular Urban Outfitters.
Keddies team of designers is lucky to work to please themselves, designing things that they find humorous and enjoyable. Because Vintage Vantage isnt a large corporate chain, ideas go through relatively unfiltered.
That creativity is what keeps Keddie excited about his job. Ive met so many fun, creative, inspiring people through this company, he said. And would he recommend being an entrepreneur? I guess I would recommend that college-age kids give it a try  there really isnt a better time to try something crazy, and it may just work out.
cierdau Pmbealrbe 
ydtliedai
got a big or BUTTE
Courtesy of vintagevantage.com
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl5

---------------------------------------------------

____movies.______________
Local film festival explores the world
24th Three Rivers Film Festival features diverse fare, plus a Pittsburgh-based documentary
Opera, a Pittsburgh-based musical troupe with a history The film is bittersweet, tracing the failed attempts of the 
of wild acts such as Night of the Living Dead: The Opmusical troupe as they desperately try to get $100,000 era, as the Squonkers take on Broadway. worth of tickets sold so that they can stay on Broadway.But Suttons filming really grasps the spirit of the producSquonk Opera had some of its first performances in Bloomtion. By the end, you want to rush out and see Squonk
field, as the charming scenes with Stanley Frankowski, Opera perform (thankfully, though they did not remainthe owner of the Bloomfield Bridge Tavern, will teach on Broadway, the Squonkers have continued to tour foryou. (Frankowski passed away on October 19 of this year.) the five years since their Broadway debut). Squonk reallyAfter touring extensively, the Squonkers were picked up gives off a feeling of sincere dedication to what is wild. off-Broadway and eventually scored a spot next to bigThroughout SQUONKumentary you see them use head
time acts like The Lion King. The documentary traces the dresses, puppets, fog machines, and even a mechanicalproduction of Squonks on-Broadway show and their subegg as production props. Beyond the wild props, there issequent efforts to stay on Broadway after poor reviews. the music. Of course the music is great when it accompanies the show but it is still magnificent on its own, as 
Steve OHearn, Squonk Operas artistic director, described proved by a scene where the Squonkers promote their CD the downward spiral of Squonk on Broadway. It got rave with a live musical performance over the air. reviews off-Broadway, he said. Then we made the mistake of going on Broadway. The expectations of being on OHearn left his career in commercial design to attend Broadway are very inappropriate for us: Carnegie Mellon to study the arts. He was drawn to thetheater because you have peoples focus for 90 minutes SQUONKumentary marks director Peggy Suttons first and every other light except the light you want on is off.film, and perhaps the films strongest aspect is that Sutton And the amount of attention and focus that you can get inlet Squonk Opera come to life in her film. Because Sutton theater, as opposed to other art forms, is what moves me. felt that playfulness was one of the key characteristics of As for the 70 minutes during which the only light youllSquonk, she tried to achieve that in her film. see is the light coming from SQUONKumentary, you will
One of the costumed Squonk Opera actors promoting the find yourself engaged in this troupes passion to keep perperformance on the streets of New York City. My goal as a first-time filmmaker, she said, was that forming. In short, it is hard not to fall for Squonk.-------------------------------------------------------------------- I wanted to give myself time to learn... She added that
A whirlwind of pictures from the world Squonk Opera was the type of production that could give qkj.spps zwaher a chance to do things that were a little bit lighter and fmmkm,aP, 7kppgw? Mbk,wn
In the next week and a half you can peek inside the world a little bit more fun. 
of a ballet troupe composed of Russian refugees. You can experience love and humor on the French Riviera. You can follow the worlds fastest motorcycle through the Bonneville Salt Flats of Utah, or get lost in the imaginary world of a boy from Seoul. In short, over the next 11 days you can see flashes of the world at the 24th Three Rivers Film Festival.
The annual film festival is celebrating 100 years of movies in Pittsburgh, since the first U.S. nickelodeon opened in the city, according to the Festivals website (www.3rff.com). The films range from Alfred Hitchcocks last silent film, Blackmail, to Why We Fight, an examination of U.S. military expansion from World War II to the present. Most films are recent productions from 2004 and 2005, but there are classics like 1976s Harlan County,USA, an Oscar-winning documentary about a Kentucky coal-mining town.
Festival highlight: SQUONKumentary
Harlan County, USA isnt the only documentary on the Festival circuit. SQUONKumentary is a film that is highly rooted in Pittsburgh. It traces the performance of Squonk
Three Rivers Film Festival CalendarWednesday, Nov. 9
M - Melwood Screening Room, H - Harris Theater,R7:15 Pure (UK 2005)
R - Regent Square Theater, * - not $7R9:15 Dear Wendy (Germany 2005)H7:15 Iron Island (Iran 2005)
Monday, Nov. 7H9:15 Cote dAzur (France 2005)
R7:15 Reel Paradise (U.S. 2005)R8:00 Video Data Bank program (U.S.)
R9:30 The Presidents Last Bang (South Korea
2004)Thursday, Nov. 10
H7:15 Harlan County USA (U.S. 1976)R7:15 Dear Wendy (Germany 2005)
H9:15 Dorian Blues (U.S. 2004)R9:15  Tout de Suite (France 2005)
M7:15 Darwins Nightmare (Austria, Belg ium,H7:15 Last Victory (Italy 2004)
France 2004)H9:15 Cte dAzur (France 2005)
M9:30 Mutual Appreciation (U.S. 2005)M-7:15 Electric Edwardians (UK)M9:00 Filmic Achievement (U.S. 2005)
Tuesday, Nov. 8
R7:15 Jesus, Mary & Joey (U.S. 2004)Friday, Nov. 11
R9:30 Pure (UK 2005)R7:15 Why We Fight (U.S. 2005)
H7:15 Symbiopsychotaxiplasm: Take 1 (U.S.R9:15 Manderlay (Denmark 2005)
1968)H7:30 (reception 9:00) Short Film Awards
H9:00 The World (China 2004)M7:15 Electric Edwardians (UK)
M8:00 (reception 7:00) Film Kitchen (U.S.)*
6dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

Creative writing professor dives into Dumpster
A befuddled frat boy and a college janitor united in a Jim Daniels film short
There is the weathered security officer who nods politely as students file in from a fire drill. Next is the grumpy old 
woman serving French toast, whose frown is contrasted by the soprano shrieks of Have a good day, baby! coming from the card-swiper standing in the doorway of Schatz.
Then theres the chemist toying with fire in lab, the fatigued architect not returning your smile, and the aspiring Barbra Streisand rehearsing down the hall.
The collision of these two cultures  the educated student and the people who clean up after him  serves as the basis for CMU English professor Jim Daniels new film, Dumpster.
Dumpster follows the relationship of Jim (Jeff Carpenter), a custodian at an elite university, and Francis (David Conrad of CBSs Ghost Whisperer), a privileged frat boy spending his nights in Jims dumpster. Both men are wrestling with their own problems  Jim, the responsibilities of caring for his girlfriend and her son; and Francis, the gravity of his roommates death and his ex-girlfriends sex life.
Jim is a bar regular who spent his high school days getting high and now just hopes for some additional overtime.
Francis comes from a comfortable family in Princeton,N.J., and spends his nights honing his creative writing skills. The duo pass cold nights exploring the trash of campus and the life experiences that unite the seemingly
M9:00 Dogplayers (U.S. 2005)M4:30 Derailroaded (U.S. 2005)Tuesday, Nov. 15R1:30 La Petite Jrusalem (France/ Israel 2005)M7:00 Filmic Achievement (U.S. 2005)R7:15 Lost Embrace (Austria 2004)R3:45 Manderlay (Denmark 2005)M9:15 Story of a Fructiferous Society (U.S. 2005)R9:15 At Last (U.S. 2004)R6:30  Tout de Suite (France 2005)H7:15 Keane (U.S. 2005)R8:30 The Memsahib (U.S., India 2005)Sunday, Nov. 13H9:15 Harry Knuckles and the Pearl NecklaceH4:30 Last Victory (Italy 2004)R2:15 La Petite Jrusalem (France/ Israel 2005)(Canada 2004)H6:30 The Worlds Fastest Indian (NewR4:30 Lost Embrace (Argentina 2004)M7:15 William Eggleston in the Real World (U.S.-Zealand/U.S. 2005)R7:00 Why We Fight (U.S. 2005)2005)H9:00 My Beautiful Girl Mari (South Korea 2002)H1:00 The Worlds Fastest Indian (New Zealand/M9:15 Short Films programM4:30 Derailroaded (U.S. 2005)U.S. 2005)M7:00 Filmic Achievement (U.S. 2005)H3:30 Short Films programWednesday, Nov. 16
M9:15 Story of a Fructiferous Society (U.S. 2005)M2:30 Derailroaded (U.S. 2005)R8:00 At Last (U.S. 2005)M5:00 Ballets Russes (U.S. 2005)H8:00 Harry Knuckles and the Pearl NecklaceSaturday, Nov. 12M7:30 Dogplayers (U.S. 2005)(Canada 2004)
R1:30 La Petite Jrusalem (France/ Israel 2005)M7:00 Photo Auction closing reception (*)
R3:45 Manderlay (Denmark 2005)Monday, Nov. 14M8:00 William Eggleston in the Real World (U.S.
R6:30  Tout de Suite (France 2005)R8:00 The Memsahib (U.S./ India 2005)2005)R8:30 The Memsahib (U.S., India 2005)H7:15 My Beautiful Girl Mari (South Korea 2002)H4:30 Last Victory (Italy 2004)H9:00 Keane (U.S. 2005)Thursday, Nov. 17H6:30 The Worlds Fastest Indian (New Zealand/M7:00 (reception 5:30) Ballets Russes (U.S. 2005)R8:00 Blackmail (UK 29) with Alloy Orch live (*)
U.S. 2005)M9:15 Story of a Fructiferous Society (U.S. 2005)H9:00 My Beautiful Girl Mari (South Korea 2002)
Calendar reprinted courtesy 0/www.3rff.com
polar companions.
Daniels, head of CMUs creative writing department, unveiled Dumpster last Saturday night as part of Pittsburghs Three Rivers Film Festival. Daniels drew from his own life story when writing the screenplay After growing up in Detroit, where there was a job waiting for you at the assembly line as soon as you graduated, Daniels came to CMU in 1981. Living in both environments, he said, allowed him to have a foot in both worlds.
The story of Jim and Francis explores Pittsburghs transformation from Steel City to what it is now, Daniels explained. The city, once renowned for its factories, is now a battery of hospitals and universities. Inspired by a family member in the janitorial business, Daniels wanted to comment on what people throw away and what people value.
Shot on CMUs campus in a span of five days, Dumpster features telling shots of Hamerschlag Hall and the Alumni House. The film never specifies a university, and any conspiracy theory about the character Jims being writer Jim Daniels is swiftly shot down by a simple explanation. Originally, the character was named Neil. But when we went to the uniform store, the only pair of coats they had came with Jim written on them. A quick rewrite followed.
Daniels says he was not interested in following the formulaic pattern of Hollywood movies, and Dumpster is
evident of the poets more lyrical structure in writing. Director John Rice adeptly translates three locations to encompass the worldly issues Jim and Francis are facing.
After its showing at Pittsburgh Filmmakers Melwood Screening Room, Dumpster is moving on to other film festivals throughout the country. More people will see this film than have read my poetry, Daniels observed.
But those who do see Dumpster will leave with an immediate impression. As the audience files out of the darkened theater, theyre sure to be thinking in a different way about the attendants filing in after them to clean up the greased popcorn bags and melting cups of ice.
Mnkj. Ej.ean,Bsp E,a((enk,sn
Courtesy of wvm.3rff.com
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl7

---------------------------------------------------

____on the cover.
Free failin for fun
Carnegie Mellon students talk about their adrenaline rushes from skydiving
Pittsburgh is so he can be close to his skydiving base. Im thinking about the Peace Corps ... [or] architectural study in grad school, he said about his future plans, but for the time being skydiving is why Im sticking around.
He might be hesitant to leave because the transition is a 
lot like leaving for college, or moving out of the house. Each drop zone is kind of a family, he explained. On the macro level its kind of a national family. [And] if youre in the sport for 10 or 20 years you start knowing 
people from all over the world.
Chandler sees the jumpers as the type of people he wouldnt meet every day. They are very interesting people that do this regularly. The image I get is sort of... a privateer or a sailor from 300 years ago. He attributes the image to the fact that the skydivers deal with life and death decisions all the time. You have to have faith that youll be able to make a simple decision very quickly, he said.
It is a really amazing sensation to be hanging under a canopy at 3000 feet and knowing you have nothing but five pounds of fabric above your head keeping you alive, said Chandler. Some might call that sensation insanity. But in fact, as Jehn noted, the sport is actually quite safe, although the idea of it may not seem safe.
Skydiving, especially in the U.S., is an extremely wellregulated sport. Statistically speaking you have a better chance of being killed in a commercial airline crash ... than skydiving, said Jehn. He noted that usually injuries happen because of a poor landing and not because of more sensationalized events like double failures, when both the main chute and the reserve malfunction.
The big change in skydiving since Canton Air Sports
Rodger Conley, owner of Canton Air Sports and a pilot for over 30 years, echoed the idea of the tight bonds between jumpers, especially at the professional level. They all started out calling me dad years ago, Conley said, And now theyre calling me granddad. I got a lot of friends and I love them all.
Ben Chandler recently took his first step to becoming part of the family. Not surprisingly, he didnt take a tandem or tourist jump his first time, but instead chose to do a static line jump. Although he has been out to Canton twice, he explained that he has only gotten to jump once due to poor weather. Obviously, you cant jump when you cant see the landing zone, he said. Chandler, who is a junior at Carnegie Mellon, says hes hoping to do static line jumps until hes proficient.
First time divers jump with professionals as a safety precaution.
Before they jump out of planes, they strap on some gear: the rig, similar to a backpack with both leg and arm 
straps; the helmet; the altimeter; a pair of goggles; and even a flotation device. The rig holds two parachutes; the main one, and the one they hope they dont have to use. As for the flotation device, thats a bit of government regulation. Canton Air Sports is less than one mile away from a body of water.
After a few hours instruction, theyre ready to skydive.
Every weekend when the weather permits, Mike Jehn, a graduate of the creative writing program and employee of Carnegie Mellon, tries to organize another two-hour drive to Canton Air Sports so that a handful of students can experience skydiving. At Canton, the students can choose between the jump for tourists, as student
Courtesy of CMU Explorers
jumper Ben Chandler calls it, and more intense jumps such as static line or accelerated free-fall. The tandem jump doesnt require a lot of performance, according to Jehn. The jumper is literally clipped to an instructor  or jumpmaster, in skydive lingo  with the jumpers back against the instructors belly. The jumpmaster pulls the rip cord and helps you through the landing, one of the most dangerous points during a dive.
Jehn started out diving static line and then moved on to the accelerated freefall program. Hes made a miniature career out of his hobby. Since he organizes the skydiving trips from Carnegie Mellon he said he feels sort of like an employee at Canton Air Sports. Jehn is also the VicePresident of Skydiving for the CMU Explorers Club, a group that offers opportunities for students to get involved in outdoor activities. Part of the reason he stays around8dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

opened in 1974 has been an increase in safety, according to Conley. He described how at first only big green military ... parachutes were used. These chutes were round, whereas today the jumpers only dive with square parachutes. We call them squares; theyre actually rectangular in shape, Conley explained.
On the whole the parachutes used now are safer, and the AAD (Automatic Activation Device) that deploys your parachute automatically if you get to a certain altitude is more reliable, said Conley. He added, Back years ago if you had a malfunction on your main parachute you had to ... go back into a freefall before you could release your reserve.
The sport may have the safety stamp, but that still doesnt 
explain why cash-strapped college kids would be willing to pay as much as $259 for a few minutes in midair. Conley thinks the sport attracts college kids because theyre younger and looking for excitement.... Young people are best suited for the sport. But he cautions against thinking that the sport only attracts one demographic, Weve had 90-year-olds jump. Weve taken paraplegics, also.
Just the way it feels to skydive may inspire some to do it again and again. Jehn, who has 20 jumps behind him, said the first time he went skydiving he was so thrilled that he talked about it for days afterwards. His favorite jump was one where he got to do two backwards somersaults in midair. In addition to doing two perfect somersaults, he added that, It was late in the day and so the sun was 
setting and the sky had kind of this beautiful mist.
For Conley, jumping gives him a fantastic feeling of freedom. Although Jehn says he hasnt seen Conley jump during the times hes visited Canton Air Sports, Conley has jumped about 800 times. Nowadays Conley spends most of his time piloting the skydiving planes. Although Conley says his business hasnt been very lucrative, he does believe that its been worthwhile. Right now the big appeal for me is that people [are] coming in here and discovering this fantastic sport.... They leave here... with 
happy smiling faces. Its kind of contagious.
Along the way Conley has seen many people who catch the skydiving bug much the way Jehn did. For business to stay good at Canton Air Sports, more people have to become addicted to diving. Conley told the story of one guy who did  a former employee named Mike Vickers:
He got his pilot license at my flight school and he wanted me to let him fly jumpers and I said, Oh you got to have a commercial license to fly jumpers. But eventually,
Courtesy of CMU Explorers
Jumpers are cleared to take off for their flight.
Vickers talked Conley into letting him fly. He went on and [eventually] got his commercial license. He was flying his buddies, and they would try to talk him into jumping. He would say, Oh, youll never get me to jump out of an airplane. One day I guess he had one too many beers... and he said, Okay, okay, Ill make one jump just to get you guys off my back, Conley recalled. He said that naturally Vickers didnt jump while intoxicated, But a week or so later he made the jump that he promised hed make. And now he has over 1000 jumps under his belt.
For someone like Ben Chandler, who has only jumped once in his life, a thousand jumps might seem like an impossible number to achieve. But Jehn insists it is not at all uncommon for those that make a life in skydiving to have jumped several thousands of times. To Chandler, it is enough to do it just once: Its one of those things that always sounds cool but everybody thinks they should do once. It really isnt that hard, he said.
Jehn noted that he meets a lot of people that say, I always really wanted to do that, I just havent gotten around to it... I was thinking Id do it later in life. Those people are uneasy about committing to a skydive. Others, he said are totally gung ho. Its a mixed bag in terms of which students will really take to skydiving. But so far, its been a successful venture for Jehn. Finding people that are interested in going on the trips is certainly not hard,
If youre looking to actually learn skydiving skills you can choose another type of jump. Static line jumpers are going the traditional route to learning, according to the Canton Air Sports website. On the first static line jump the parachute opens on its own, but later training jumps require the jumper to pull the ripcord, and eventually to do tricks like figure eights. You can also learn how to skydive with the accelerated freefall method, which is both the gutsiest jump and the one most likely to gut your wallet. The accelerated freefall program aims to teach you how to be a good skydiver, quickly. In this method you take your first jump at 13,000 feet and have to pull the cord on your own. Later jumps teach you more skills and tricks much like the static line method, only in less overall time.
he noted cheerily.So while others at Carnegie Mellon get their kicks from video games, intramurals, or napping, a select group of students looks to one place to have fun: the sky.
qkj.spps zwa fmmkm,aP, 7kppgw? Mbk,wn
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl9

---------------------------------------------------

____turntable.____________
- Big Als Metal Review
Quick looks at new releases from the Lovemakers and Opeth
Artist: The Lovemakers and Opeth 
Label: Time of Romance
First off, this week is the Lovemakers new disc, Time of Ro
mance, on Interscope records. Yeah, it aint metal; but hey, no
bodys perfect.
As if they were living up to every 80s cliche, synth and Anglotinged vocals trade off with the more than competent backbeat 
on tracks like Shake That Ass and Prepare for the Fight. If I 
were a betting man, Id say the dudes here would probably run 
from any fight, given their physical appearance, but maybe Im 
just being mean. They are snappy dressers, though.
Romance is a nicely produced slab of layered, modern pop. One 
could very easily trace a direct line from Duran Duran to Franz 
Ferdinand and place this album somewhere in between. Lisa 
Lights violin adds to the atmosphere, and her voice shines on 
Hypnotized, my vote for the best single on this CD. Still, the 
musical highlight for me is definitely Josh Freeses drumming 
on four of the tracks. A true renaissance man, Josh has lent his 
skills to everyone from Guns N Roses and A Perfect Circle to 
Poe and the Indigo Girls. Monsieur Freese sets a restrained tone 
with his drumming on Is It Alright and the title track, Times 
of Romance, adding nicely to his portfolio. By the way, Josh 
isnt the only drummer to have worked with both GNR and Poe
 any idea who else? Send me an e-mail if you knowfirst one 
gets a copy of this disc courtesy of the fine folks at Interscope.
Speaking of superior musicianship, Opeth has released a 
masterpiece in Ghost Reveries, out now on Roadrunner. Yes, 
they are metal, but much much more is revealed in their songwriting. Not since Metallica has anybody carved out their own 
niche like Opeth.
Just as Lars and co. transcended thrash, so have Opeth surpassed 
being the Swedish death metal band with a little prog/folk/jazz 
fusion in their songs. 2001s Blackwater Park was a landmark 
release, and the beginning of their collision course with the 
mainstream. With their dual release of Damnation (light) and 
Deliverance (heavy) in 0203, Opeth cemented their place in 
the consciousness of the music press. Being name-dropped by 
hipsters everywhere, metal fans or not, hasnt affected their 
choice of styles one bit. In fact, with Ghost Reveries, Opeth have 
returned to their original vision.
The separation of Opeths talent into light and shade, although 
making it easier to turn your parents on to this band, wasnt a 
complete representation of the talent of these musicians. Many 
can try to meld styles X or Y with metal, and take credit for start
ing a new genre. But no one can make it seem as natural a tran
sition between styles as Opeth. In the process, they have shown 
the world that heavy music, whether angry outburst or dirgy 
lamentation, all comes from the same place: emotional release.
As an example, the transition from Atonement, the fourth 
track into Reverie/Harlequin Forest is seamless. Gentle key
boards give way to the crunch of Swedens best riffing. All while 
Mikael Akefeldt croons in the foreground. With the song wind
ing into darker territory, Akerfeldts voice turns to growl and 
scream. Then, as the storm quells, acoustic guitars lead the 
listener out of the fury and back into Mikaels soothing voice. 
Stellar work, gentlemen.
Check back in the next few weeks for reviews of Machine Heads 
newest DVD and Anthraxs releases since reuniting with Joey 
Belladonna. Cheers!
ha sig/b 
v/bDir dDaanie vpP,,
Images courtesy of www.lisanola.com
The Lovemakers rock out a small venue concert.
$14 Student Rush tickets available at Heinz Hall 2 hours prior to the concert.visit www.pittsburghsymphony.org
Series sponsorMellonSponsored by {)Media sponsor
Student tickets only *12! Faculty and staff tickets only $17!
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
Mellon tnaPb ;pammkjm
LISZT: Orpheus TCHAIKOVSKY: Violin Concerto RESPIGHI: Metamorphoseon RESPIGHI: The Pines of Rome
W.inmbaN1 November 10  1:30Sy onkbaN1 November 11  8:00Sy Ea,inbaN1 November 12  8:00Sy
HEINZ HALL
Order from the Ticket Box located at the Information Desk in University Center.
LPvmkF.,m
mm. S i pFAMOUS (^ '
ccHtctrtO'
AN IMPORTANT DEBUT
Gianandrea Noseda, conductor 
Leonidas Kavakos, violin
The Pittsburgh debut of one of the world's 
most sought after virtuoso violinists!
10dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
Walter of the Cosmos by Jimi OklanaTyler and Fred by Greg Prichardjokelana@andrewgprichar@andrew
50 WHAT f\t.B you POI 
AuaV from rue hmsqit 
W4IEUD? OV V4CAT10A? J
There's nothing quite as depressing 
as an empty mailbox __
(fi WORD Piense, FKefrto mer yjtf;Call It Schwing by Frankie Williamsfhw@andrew
IMF Diary by Robert Kaminskirkaminsk@andrewSo apoareniiy, President Bush is scared that were going fo have anoiher bird flu...OH GOD, DUCK AND COVER!!
BIRD FLU!! RUN!!DUCK AW COVER!! GOD HAVE MERCY OS US ALL!!!!
All Hail The Jon by Jon Samuelsjsamuell@andrew
ney fim 
way ftssRt  
To QV& fun, I
son
t&D /I 
moR. /,
nraigve
"fiarmjPLC
loMJ&fcT OSES5D
K wirft WNG 
V PW*
C004JD you 
GerrneSome i 
mos coffee? 1
a3kAD
 : .........................VfflK STRIP f OlRSkS W2W 3V3H3&C <9 l^WKT * www. <afcfXiSS-com /jtjtaeK
lea@andrew Family Circuits by Greg Prichard gprichar@andrew Fender Bender by Rick Park11:45 by Lea Albaugh
{I***
frey/tflfy
fA0Vl:^llkb^rdiGreat, just what I didn't want to see 
My little brother being manufactured!
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------11
dDaanieCl S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

comics.
Bob the Angry Flower by Stephen Notleywww.angryflower.com Almost Exactly by Laura Frye Danielslfrye@andrew
exercise nrv^ ^orer
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze by Max Kaufmannmaximilian@cmu.edu
PART IV: UNRt&E

---------------------------------------------------

comics
HOROSCOPES.
BY ASHLEIGH MOLZ
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): The outcome of that project you've been 
working on is sure to delight you. Keep working hard; it will pay off. And 
remember, Thanksgiving break is coming up soon. Dont despair.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): The little blue monster living under your 
bed that you like to call a pet has officially made your roommate upset... 
He bit off her big toe and promptly threw it up all over the carpet and her 
homework. Good luck explaining that little accident" away.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Somewhere in this schools course catalog is 
the class youve waited your whole life to take! Sign up for it. Enjoy it. But 
if youre a first-year or sophomore you can forget it, loser! Fulfillment is only 
for seniors and a few special juniors. Wait your turn! _
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Its been a wonderful, beautiful week. And 
have you seen any of it? Why do you never go outdoors?
LEO (July 23 - August 22): Just because you slept through an exam,' your 
hair caught fire, you used all of your late days for the semester, and your cat 
sleeps with your roommate instead of you doesnt mean youve had a bad 
week! Look on the bright side. At least its not raining.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): Yes, I have heard about that sound 
youve been hearing continuously for the past two weeks. Some believe that 
it is God talking to you; some say extraterrestrial life forms. But most agree 
that it is the sound of losing your mind. When is the last time you sat down 
and relaxed without care?
LIBRA (September 23 - October 22): Stay away from your telephone for the 
next couple of weeks. Someone has terrible news for you. If you deny its 
existence, you will of course be much happier.
SCORPIO (October 23 - November 21): A pandemic is coming! If you eat 
healthy, exercise, and eat as many vitamins as you can, maybe you wont be 
in the first million to die. Or maybe you will, but do you want to take that 
chance?
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): The La-Z-Boy store called. 
They ran out of you..
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): If you havent called your mom 
back in three weeks, dont you think she might be just a little worried about 
you? What a terrible son you must be. On the other hand, if you call your 
mom every day without fail, maybe you should read up about the.Oedipus 
complex and try to get on with your life.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Theres no excuse to forgo a meal 
every day, even if you have six classes in a row. Who doesnt? Get up five 
minutes earlier and make a sandwich to take with you. Youll be surprised 
how easy it is, and how much better youll feel.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): All this time and still not a GPA of 3.5. 
Shame on you. You must be a complete idiot. Its so easy to do well at your 
school. Why dont you just work harder?
Carne gi Musmmgn
gN fn,.in UG5eNsn
1234 '5
1
6
78
'
1
111213
14,
171819
20
22
232425
26272829303233
34
1
35St
36
3738
1
39
40
.
431
4445
46
484950II
52lr
53545556
575859
60
1

1
62
636465
fjnwmm
1. Pion or kaon, e.g.
6. Surely you____!
10. Ice cream brand
14. Web ranking service
15. Part of a cart
16. Regrets
17. First part of quip
20. It had a king
21. Michael Jackson album of 1987
22. Brawny ones
23. We are the music makers, e.g.
25. Notja
26. Second part of quip
31. Cleans dishes, for short
34. Off the cuff
35. Old folks grp.
36. Legendary second baseman
37. Tear up and negotiate again
5weP
1. Yoga props
2. K-12 (Abbr.)
3. You should____doctor (two words)
4. Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire, 
sick health Shakespeare
5. Noise of refusal
6. Dubois pithecanthropus:____Man
7. Crossed off
8. Hearst kidnappers, 1974
9. Need a massage
10. WWII gen. Rommel
11. Heating pipe
12. Opposite of 5 Down
13. Pre-91 units
18. Lincoln and Fortas
19. Qatar notable
24. Lookout!
25. Blond and blue-eyed, say
26. Places for crops
27. Waiting for Lefty playwright Clifford
28. River of Wiesbaden and Karlsruhe
38. Caesar, for one
39. Type of virus
40. Triangles on maps (Abbr.)
41. Hindi honorific (Var.)
42. Clodhopper
43. Warsaw-to-Sofia dir.
44. Third part of quip
46. Herring relative
47. Spelling or quilting are types
48. Lyric insensitivity
51. One of Freuds divisions
53. Could be better
57. Final part of quip
60. The Godfather novelist Mario
61. What the Little Red Hen heard
62. Airborne skateboard trick
63. PR work
64. Aide, for short
65. Collapses:_____over
29. Prepared to insert in a table, maybe
30. Tough, as a problem
31. Color for desert ops
32. 19th-century British pathologist James
33. Graven stone
36. We Can Remember It For You________
39. TVs Gomer
41. Girl in a Knack song
44. Bangkok native
45. Its____!
46. Baltimore saint Elizabeth Ann
48. Some kitchen meas.
49. Laugh____!
50. Indiana Jones villain
51. Pigs or wolfs
52. Wayne film of 1969: True____
54. Provide unwanted attention
55. Loam
56. Washingtons, say
58, Some survey responses
59. Chinese cooking vessel
14
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl

---------------------------------------------------

calendar.
MONDAY 7TUESDAY 8WEDNESDAY 9THURSDAY 10
Dick Dale. Surf guitarist. Rex Theatre. 7:45 pm. $20.
Women @ SCS Lecture. Wean Hall 7500.4:15 pm. Fea
turing Barbara J. Grosz, Dean of Science at Radcliffe Insti
tute for Advanced Study at Harvard, discussing collabora
tive planning.
Imperial, The Hope Of Change, Once Nothing, and 
Demise Of Eros. Mister Roboto Project. 7:00 pm. $8.
Ted Leo and Pharmacists. Mr. Smalls. Doors open 
at 6:30 pm, show starts at 7:30 pm. $10 in advance, $13 
at the door. All ages. Opening: The Changes, Vail and Year, 
CJs Turtle.
Taiwanese Students Association: Arts and Crafts 
Day. West Wing TV Room. 6:30 pm - 8 pm. Free. Mahjongs 
games, traditional Chinese toys, origami making, and 
other activities.
CJ Chenier & The Red Hot Louisiana Band. Music 
with elements of fuiiK blues and ballads. Club Caf. Doors 
open at 6 pm show starts at 7 pm. $16 in advance and at 
the door.
Philosophy As A Way Of Life: Foucault & Hadot. Guest 
lecturer, Dr. Thomas R. Flynn, professor at Emory University. 
Duquesne University, Gumberg Library. 4 pm. Free.
The Blasters. Rex Theatre. 8 pm. $17.
God Forbid. Mr. Small's. Doors open at 6 pm; show 
starts at 7 pm. $10 in advance, $20 at the door. All ages. 
Opening: Agents of Man, Cannae, Harlequins Voice, De
mise of Eros.
Ardine. Rock music. 31st Street Pub. 9 pm. $5.21+.
FRIDAY 11SATURDAY 12SUNDAY 13MONDAY 14
Planned Parenthood of Western PA Presents:
What Happens in Pittsburgh, Stays in Pittsburgh: Talk 
Sex with Sue Johanson." 7 pm to 12 am. Carnegie Mu
sic Hall. 412.434.8957, ext. 121. $10-$75. Tickets online: 
www.talksex.ppwp.org.
Donna the Buffalo. Reggae, rock, country, zydeco, Ca
jun, folk, and old-timey fiddle music. Mr. Smalls. 8:00 pm. 
$17 in advance, $20 at the door. 21 and up.
Kottonmouth Kings. Mr. Smalls. Doors open at 6 pm; 
show starts at 7 pm. $20 in advance, $22 at th door. 
All ages.
Handmade Arcade. Construction Junction. 11 am 
- 7 pm. Free. Funky DIY crafts fair, complete with DIY 
haircutting and a cranky Santa.
Polishfest 05. Live entertainment, cultural displays, 
cooking and folk-art demonstrations, Polish bakery, 
ethnic foods and a polka dance. Cathedral of Learning, 
UPitt campus. 12 Noon to 5 pm.
Yellowcard. Mr. Smalls. Doors open at 6:30 pm; show 
starts at 7:30 pm. $20. All ages. Opening: Acceptance, 
Pink Spiders.
Erin McKeown. Fractured blues to New Orleans horns, 
cool French rock to lovely piano waltzes from a multi-instrumentalist. Club Caf. Doors open at 6 pm, show starts 
at 7 pm. $14.
Buck the Stars. Starbucks, Squirrel Hill. 8:00 pm. Free. 
Pittsburgh singer-songmaker Brad Yoder and Jason Rafalakon bass.
CLASSIFIEDS.
BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK CELEBRITY 
CRUISE! 5 days from $299! Includes 
meals, taxes, entry to exclusive MTVU 
events, beach parties with celebrities! 
CANCN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA from 
$499! On-campus marketing reps 
needed! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 
or 800.678.6386.
6 room, second floor duplex for rent,
immediately available, $1200/month
plus all utilities, minimum one year 
lease, rent concession during 1st year 
and for longer leases, 3 bedrooms, 
livingroom, diningroom, fullyequipped 
kitchen, 1 bath, washer and dryer, 
window air conditioners, basement 
storage space. 5621 Woodmont street, 
near Wilkins and Wightman  1 mile 
to CMU campus and just a little futher 
to Pitt campus, street parking easy, 
also 2 off street parking pads, call Tim 
at 412.466.0835, or 800.782.6559 
e-mail: jbjeffer@att.net .
1000 ENVELOPES = $5000. Receive 
$5 for every envelope stuffed with 
our sales materials. Guaranteed! 
Free information: 24-hour recording 
800.796.6567
Shady Side Academy seeks parttime Summer Day Camp Director.
Bachelor's degree, teaching/ 
coaching, camp experience required. 
Info at www.shadysideacademy. 
org/about/employment.html. Cover 
letter and resume to Daycamp@ 
shadysideacademy. org.
Radio City Christmas Spectacular starring the Rockettes. Benedum Cen
ter. $26 to $60. Thursday, November 10, through Sunday, December 4th.
Small Acts Exhibit. Space Pittsburgh. Free. Friday, November 11 through, De
cember 31. Artists use small acts of creative process, labor, and aesthetics to 
address larger socially and politically driven concerns.
412 Creative Nonfiction Literary Festival. University of Pittsburgh. Monday, 
November 7 through Saturday, November 12. Brings Pittsburgh writers together 
with prominent national authors. For more information, visit www.creativenonfiction.org.
Visit us online at
www.mysweetbasil.com
and Get
Free Thai Dinner
Certificate a
D1^ Upscale
l Casual DiningV 'Modern Thai & Filipino Cuisine
BYOB Absolutely
SWEET BASIL No Corkage Fee
LA FILIPiNIANA Tel. 412-606-027
dDaaniel S uio/An/r tEEfl15

---------------------------------------------------

allery
Edward Hall/Photo Staff
This weekend, the International Bazaar and Zany Umbrella Circus, part of the International 
Festival, came to Carnegie Mellon. The bazaar featured arts, crafts, and food from all around 
the world.
