NII^ my I jyyag. gy; .y,UT-J* *}?***+**.
'i'.y^?v;v>''.'V  k /i1; '!' ;::-A'yfZr
iliiSS
flliiSll
ii
v^v:
M;
PI'-
/kcort/
mmmmmmmmmmmmmm------------------ 1 >mummmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm -jnn.mrr mi mm..........................___  ... i 
Volume III llivp ic ionn Two Dollars the Year
Number 36 JlJlNE I5 1909 Ten Cents the Copy
The Tartar?
Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

---------------------------------------------------

In the game with
2,000 Students
A' yAfZr2O$ OZyAy rAy ovyA Owo' 
OZousr2d sOudy2Os rO CrA2ygiy TyfZ 
wZo rAy spy2di2g mo2yy yvyAy dry' 
Do OZyy k2ow wZo you rAy r2d wZrO 
you Zrvy Oo syll? AAy you Orlki2g 
wiOZ OZym OZAougZ OZy rdvyAOisi2g 
folum2s of TZy TrAOr2? ByOOyA mrky 
rAAr2gymy2Os foA sprfy if you wr2O 
youA sZrAy of TyfZ mo2yy' If you 
wr2O Oo gyO i2 OZy grmy$ wAiOy Oo
Advertising Manager The Tartan"
CrA2ygiy TyfZ2ifrl SfZools
1 If Joseph Horne Co. 1
Pittsburgs Great Store
EVERYTHING
FOR
EVERYBODY
* AND ALWAYS AT THE VERY 4*
$ LOWEST PRICES $5 g$ s
EVERY |
TECHNICAL MAN
needs one of the following 
Engineering Journals:
ELECTRICAL WORLD
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, $3.00. Monthly Edition, $1.00
THE ENGINEERING RECORD
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical engineer.
 Published Weeklyfj.oo a Year
$ ELECTRIC RAILWAY JOURNAL
The undisputed authority on the construc
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly$3.00 a Year
0%0%0%'0%0%0\0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0\0V0%0%0.%
Spyfirl RrOys Oo SOudy2Os 
Srmply Copiys o2 RyquysO
fGRAW PUBLISHING CO'
239 WysO 39 SOAyyO - - - Nyw YoAk
THE RITTENHOUSE
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE
g Affords Superior Facilities for g 
Serving Dinners, Balls |
and Banquets. '$
The Ball Room floor is cushioned * 
making it perfect for dancing. 

? Special Inducements to Students *
o*s50*0
p . i 8 
g * a *

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. Ill, No. 36
(T n r 1 n n
PITTSBURG, PA., TUESDAY, JUNE 15, 1909TENCENTS
FINAL ARRANGEENTS FOR COENCEENT'
Several slight changes have been made in the 
program of the Commencement exercises of the 
Schools that will be held at 10.30 Wednesday, June 
1G, in the Carnegie Music Hall. At the present 
writing, Dr. Brashear had not-announced the sub
ject of his address. This will be the first public 
appearance of Dr. Maclaurin, ag the President of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and in view 
of that fact, a number of Boston Tech men have 
signified their intention of attending. Mr. Charles 
Heinroth, Lecturer on Music at the Schools, and 
City Organist, will add two organ numbers to the 
program: Prelude, Ruy Bias, by Mendelssohn,
and Postlude, Coronation March, by Meyerbeer. 
Miss Smith will deliver her farewell address as 
Dean of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School, 
and be succeeded by Miss West. Amici will be 
sung directly after the conclusion of Dr. Maclaurins 
address, and the entire iSchools will rise and join 
with the Glee Club in singing the Alma Mater, 
after the Director has given the diplomas.
After the Commencement exercises a luncheon 
will be served at the University Club for the Alumni, 
Faculty and members of the Graduating Classes and 
parents. Tickets for the luncheon at 75c each, 
may be secured at the store room up to 10 A. M. 
Wednesday, and at the box office of the Institute 
after the exercises.
As has already been announced, students are to 
assemble at the Schools at 9.45 oclock Wednesday 
morning, June 16th, and march in procession to the 
hall, where seats will be reserved for them. In 
case of rain the march will be omitted, students to 
assemble at 10 oclock in the Orchestra Rehearsal 
Room, in the basement of the Institute.
NEW APPOINTENTS TO THE APPLIED 
CLASS DAY'
As is the usual stunt, the Class Day exercises will 
be held on Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park; in case 
ol' rain, arrangements have been made to hold them 
in the Science Lecture Hall in the rear of the Car
negie Institute. At 2.00 P. M., Tuesday, June 15th, 
the first grand outburst of eloquence opening the 
affair, will roll from the mouth of Mr. Frederick I. 
Gaston, the Class Orator. Mr. Louis L. Satler, Jr., 
will then proceed to charm the multitude by be
stowing upon each member of the Class a token of 
remembrance in the way of a gift of some sort. 
Each gift will be accompanied by a large-sized as
sortment of Guff, designed to make the recipient 
blush before all his lady friends,  while he is re
ceiving it. Then in accents soft and tones musical, 
Mr. Meldrin Thompson (oh, we byg your pardon) 
Thom (there is no P in it) son, the gentleman from 
deah old Gawdga will give an imitation of the 
weather works. Mr. Walter Gray, the habitual and 
perpetual Historian, will then read the prize num
ber of his series.
Representing the graduating class of the Appren
tices and Journeymens School, Nicholas Martin will 
evolve a prophecy concerning its members, and 
Frank H. Smart will do the same for the School of 
Applied design.
One of the late features to be decided upon was 
the banquet to be given Monday evening, June 14th, 
on the Roof Garden of the Hotel Lincoln, by the 
Apprentices and Journeymen. Being given so long 
after the closing of their school, it reflects much 
credit on the class and those in charge to be able 
to get the crowd together in sufficient numbers.

---------------------------------------------------

4 THE TARTAN*
M. M. O. S.-CLASS DAY
SALUTATORY'
We are here today as the Class of 1909 for the 
last time. It is sad to think that after three years 
of such pleasant, constant companionship, we sepa
rate, some to meet perhaps never again, but no 
matter how far . we go, we can never forget that we 
are Margaret Morrison Carnegie, 1909. We are the 
first of a long line of classes of the years to come. 
1910, in fact, can scarcely wait until we vacate so 
that its members may reign as Seniors, and so it 
will be sisters 1910, when toward next spring you 
realize 1911 following close upon your heels. But 
today is left to us and we have asked you, as our 
friends, to share this farewell to our school. We 
stand today triumphant and at the very zenith of 
our school day glory. Tomorrow we receive our 
diplomas, passports into the busy world where we 
separate, each to do that which she has prepared. 
We have achieved our goal and we are proud of our 
work. No doubt we will look back and smile upon 
the sheen of this day as it glimmers back to us 
through a ten or twenty years mist, but it is real 
just now and we wish to appreciate it to the full. 
Thats why we are here, why we have a class day. 
To celebrate as a class our final achievement as in
dividuals. At last we reached a mile-stone, a cross
road as it were, which has ever seemed so far away. 
Ever since we have started to school, we have 
looked forward to this day when we would turn from 
school. And now that it is here, we hesitate and 
wonder what next. We cannot see very far into 
the future, but we can look backward. We see in 
those past years, not the hard work, for that is for
gotten and our bluest Mondays have a rosy hue, 
but we see a gradual sweep or rise in the tide that 
has landed us high and dry. Then we remember to 
whom we owe all of this. We realize what Mr. Car
negie has done for us and we thank him, and we 
thank the Director, our Dean and our faculty. It 
gives me pleasure to welcome our guests, the friends 
who have gathered today to celebrate with us this 
Class Day of the (Seniors of 1909.
CrOZyAi2y C' IZmsy2'
CLASS HISTORY19C9'
The Seniors of the Class of 1909 will soon be so 
well known by the world that anyone can say by 
looking at their faces, "You are an M. M. C. S. girl 
of 09. The following story, perhaps, might very 
well be used to apply to them:
The man in the smoker was boasting of his un
erring ability to tell from a mans looks exactly 
what city he came from, You for example, he said 
to the man next to him, you are from New Or
leans? He wras right.
You, my friend, turning to the man on the other 
side of him, I should say you are from Chicago? 
Again he was right.
The other two men got interested.
And you are from Boston, he asked the third 
man.
Thats right, too, said the New Englander.
"And you from Philadelphia, I should say? to the 
last man.
No, sir, answered the man with considerable 
warmth; "Ive been sick for three months: thats 
what makes me look that way!
It will be just as easy for anyone to pick an 09 
girl out from among others, as it was for that man 
to tell from what cities his companions came. Of 
course, once in a while someone might mistake a 
Senior for a Plebe, but that would occur only, as in 
the above case, after that Senior had had a long 
illness, or just around time for exams, when she 
has been burning tue midnight oil, and wears that 
haunted will I get through look, so often seen on 
.the face of a Plebe. As a rule, though, the experi
ences of the Pioneer Class of M. M. C. <S. in Costume 
Design, Dressmaking, Household Arts, and Secre
tarial work, will have given them a distinct but 
subtle something that belongs exclusively to the 
Clars of 1909, so that one will seldom make such a 
mistake.
What mortal would think, to look at us as we are 
today, that on the seventeenth of September, 1906, 
we were scared body of sixty-five girls, starting 
intowe knew not exactly wZrO; and with numer
ous bridges before us which must be crossed before 
we could proudly raise our heads and say We are 
the Seniors of 1909. However, as much as we 
should like to take all the honor upon ourselves, we 
must fever be little George Washingtons and ac
knowledge that if it had not been for the Faculty, 
who have led us . cross these bridges to high and 
dry places of safety, now we might bewe know 
not where. It is with tears in our eyes, though, that 
we think of the wayward trio, who have left their 
happy home (meaning the school, of course) to be 
v married. Think of it, and then think again, and 
still again ponder over the fact that our Dean, our 
wise Miss Smith, has also been caught by cupid and 
a Hart and will leave when we do.
Perhaps, though, we should thank our Faculty for 
living up to the ideals of the school by entering into 
what is really womans spherethe home. By doing 
this they take the responsibility from our shoulders, 
for even if* we fail to live up to this ideal, we may 
rest assured that the Faculty will always see that 
the home making course has not been in vain. Mar
rying may be all right for the Faculty, but when one 
looks at what the four worthy classes of our school 
have accomplished, it is no wonder that the Seniors 
have had little time to think of engagements.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
The Costume Design girls certainly are wonders. 
What creations they cannot fashion out of a little 
paper and paint are not worth mentioning. Of 
course, when it came to making up these Parisian 
models some of the girls felt shy about appearing 
in public, arrayed in some of their own fashioning, 
but then, they were brave and stood the ordeal well.
The Dressmakers have made dresses of all shapes 
and sizes, and for everyone from the Faculty down 
to children. Just ask the wearer (not of the C, 
but of the gown) how beautifully it fits, and how 
neatly it is finished on the inside where no one can 
see. I am not saying anything about the outside, 
but it evidently is all right, judging from th suc
cess of the exhibit given at the school a short time 
ago.
The Household Arts girls and the Secretarais 
seem to have gained most of their notoriety by pay
ing visits to various places. The H. A.s have been 
journeying around to see a little of the dark side 
of life, for Tech has but one viewpoint, and that is 
optimistic. Judging from the mournful expressions 
which those girls are wearing lately, they must have 
found that which they sought.
While the Secretarais have also been blessed by 
being allowed to pay visits, which one of the girls 
declared always gave her a distinct thrill of pleas
ure, yet they are taken for entirely different pur
poses. After one of these visits it seemed to be the 
sole delight of every member of the Faculty to make 
each poor persecuted Secretarial write a paper tell
ing what she saw. If each individual had not been 
so pleased with the various souvenirs which she 
had received from the places visited, her task might 
have been unbearable. As it was she placed her 
box of stationery and her steel spike before her 
and set resolutely to work, thinking, they more 
than compensate for the unpleasant task I must now 
perform.
I think that by established PAyfydy2Os enough for 
the Juniors and Plebes to. follow. For one thing, how
ever, the Juniors deserve praise, and that is their 
Basket-ball team; and the girls of the Senior team, 
who have thoroughly enjoyed playing with the Ju
niors, without regret allow them to keep all the glory 
that they have won from us.
The Social affairs which our class has had since 
its beginning have all been delightful, bui this year 
they have been chiefly conspicuous by their absence. 
However, on June 11th, we made up for lost time, 
and of rll affairs that will be handed down in his
tory, the. Senior Ball of the Class of 1909 should be 
first and foremost. Founders Day, which in our 
Plebe year we thought was the most important affair 
that the Institute would ever behold, has faded into 
insignificance in comparison.
Today, though, even Senior Balls seem trivial, 
when we think that on Wednesday our school days 
will end, and that we, the Seniors of 1909, will be 
but a remembrance as the Charter Class of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie School.
DoAoOZy B' SfoOO'
Will'
It is not to tell you of the joys and pleasures of 
being a Margaret Morrison Carnegie School girl; it 
is not to tell you of the higher sphere into which 
you are lifted by our prerogatives; or of the higher 
ideals inspired by our Facultythat I am speaking 
to you this afternoon: but in the name of the Class 
of 1909 I must place before the class of 1910 the 
serious problems and the difficulties of the school 
life here.
The most serious problem the Class of 1909 had 
to face and now will have to face is that of estab
lishing precedents. For three years they have 
been battling with them and now in the name of the 
Class, of 1909 I hereby do will and bequeath to you 
all the precedents that have been established. Time 
will not permit me to name them all, so I will men
tion only a few of the most important ones. When 
we first entered the school, young bashful, afraid to 
turn either to the right or to the left, it was made 
decidedly plain to us that we must be very 
careful of our attitude toward the boys in the 
other school. Can you imagine anything more awful 
than to have it said of the M. M. C. ;S. girlsThey 
like to walk and talk with the boys? May the 
Fates preserve it from such repute! But I am sure 
you will guard, cherish and protect the reputation 
of the school. During the Junior year many prob
lems presented themselves which you will be wrell 
able to handle but there is one point I wish to em
phasize especially. After your years work is done 
and you Juniors are ready to take upon yourselves 
the dignity of Seniors, assert your independence, 
and manifest your importance in the school by 
taking the Faculty down a peg or two. This was 
done during the Junior year of the Class of 1909 by 
merely ordering the Faculty to appear before the 
school body where they entertained the students 
with a Faculty Vaudeville, the program having 
been previously arranged by the Juniors. It is not 
necessary for you to carry this out in detail, only 
do not let the idea die out. The aspect of the 
Senior year was a far more promising one. The 
school was theirs, the whole school, aye the Faculty 
RoomsDirector lHamerschlag and Dean Smith 
made this assertion, and Brutus is an honorable 
man. The two most difficult problems having now 
been settled, the Class of 1909 had time to turn its
attention to the more enjoyable side of school life
and cultivate its social phases. They had parties, 
became better acquainted and made more friends 
some of whom were among the male sex, in order 
to carry out the clause in the prerogatives, to up
lift mankind in its upward struggles. These afore
said precedents are yours, oh, Class of 1910, to have 
and to hold in sacred trust.
Secondly, there is an awful responsibility that 
comes with Seniorshipthat of guiding the totter
ing feet of the young who enter the school, of
watching over them, of protecting them and of ad
vising them. I do hereby appoint you guardian and

---------------------------------------------------

ETHE TARTAN
protector of the Plebes who come to the iM. M. C. S. 
They need your guidance in their everyday strug
gles as well as in the weightier matters. They 
need your protection from the Juniors, who with the 
first pangs are like rearing lions and ravenous 
wolves. They need your advice in regard to the 
boys of the other school. They may not realize this 
and welcome it when proffered, but when they are 
older they will appreciate it and may profit by it.
Thirdly, in the name of the Class of 1909, I do 
hereby will and bequeath to you the duty of estab
lishing a standard. This is a standard which must 
last throughout the coming generations so must be 
well rooted and deeply planted. To make it firm 
and well grounded the class of 1909 had to dig. They 
had to dig throughout the Plebe year, they had to 
dig throughout the Junior and they had to dig 
throughout the Senior year, aye the very last week 
of the Senior year. This duty now devolves itself 
upon the Class of 1909.
In the minds of those who have lived and worked 
in the M. M. C. S. since 1906 there has been never 
a doubt as the legacy the Class of 1909 should 
leave at demise. The burden of establishing prece
dents, nurturing the Plebes and setting a standard 
has borne far too heavily upon their young shoul
ders for them to forgetbut what form should the 
material symbol of the lagacy assume? The ques
tion brought fear to the stout hearts of the Seniors. 
Smiling countenances became grave, relaxed fig
ures became tense, hands were clasped and all cried 
in despairing voices, what shall it be? Many 
ideas were volunteered. Our Ethics Professor sug
gested a Statue of Silence. Was it because there 
were so few ideas on ethical matters, or was it be
cause there were so many? But it was finally de
cided that, as they planted their ivy to live and 
beautify its surroundings in the name of the class 
of 1909, that they should also leave the instrument 
which made possible its planting, seeing in the In
stitution a type of those things which have enabled 
the Senior class gayly to burgeon and broadly to 
grow.
As the trowel removes the clay and earth, making 
it possible to implant that which is beautiful and 
profitable, so may it be an emblem of making it pos
sible to plant the good and beautiful in this school. 
As the trowel loosens the earth around that which 
is planted, enabling its roots to take a firmer hold 
and reach out its arm through the surrounding 
earth, so may it be an emblem of the broader vis
ion and scope of the lives which come in contact 
with this institution. As the trowel removes that 
wrhich is superfluous, so may it be an emblem of the 
removal of all that is not best in the lives of all its 
students.
To you the President of the Junior Class and 
through you to the Class of 1910 and the classes 
which are to come, in the name of the Class of 1909,
I do hereby will and bequeath to you this emblem 
of all the struggles, trials and tribulations of the
Class of 1909, together with all the precedents that 
have been established, the guardianship of the 
Plebes and the reputation of the School.
K' C' fully2'
FACULTY VS' SENIORS'
The annual game between the Faculty and Sen
iors on Friday afternoon was won by the Seniors 
13 to 10. This is the first time in the history of the 
School that the Faculty have been beaten by the 
Seniors, and the Seniors are naturally highly elated. 
Dean Leete pitched a steady game for the Faculty, 
but his support at times was erratic. Both sides 
clouted the ball hard, and this accounts for the 
large score. The game was anybodys until the 
eighth, when Halferty broke up the game by clout
ing out a home run with two on base. It looked 
as if the Faculty were going to make a ninth inning 
finish when, with two out, Keller laid the ball on 
the street for the entire circuit. Lightcap then sin
gled, but Hepburn struck out and ended the game. 
A large crowd of students attended the game and 
much good natured jollying was done. Score:
SENIORS.R.H.P,A.E.
21141
Hartman, 3 .................21111
Halferty, 1 .................3100
Bonsai, m .................................11200
Casey, c ....................................00920
Schmucker, 1 ...............................21900
Wright, 2....................................12331
Dornberger, r ........................11000
Hammond, p ..........................10100
131027103
FACULTY.R.H.P.A.E.
Orbin, 2 ..........................................3310
Reed, s ..............................................11031
Sell, c ................................................11811
Lightner, 1.............................011010
Crabtree, 1............. . . ..................02000
Keller, 3 ..........................................21121
Lightcap, m................................22100
Pfouts, r ..........................................00000
Hepburn, r ......................................11100
Leete, p ...........................................00031
101224114
Faculty ...........................2 10 01 023 1--10
Seniors ...........................0 0 0 22 13513
Home runsHalferty 2, Keller. Three-base hits 
Lightcap. Two-base hitsLightner, Reed, Orbin. 
Struck outBy Hammond 9, Leete 8.

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RTANn
SCIENCE FACULTY'
It has been announced that Mr. H. K. Meyers has 
been appointed to the teaching staff ip the Depart
ment on Mining Engineering. What title he will 
bear has not been announced.
Mr. Lloyd B. Smith received and accepted an ap
pointment to the Department of Mineralogy and 
Geology, in the capacity of Assistant Professor.
STATEENT OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES FUND'
SfZool YyrA 1908-9'
RyfyipOs'
1908.
Oct. 1Received from E. L. Wood
ward, Cashier ........................$ 90 00
1909.
Jan. 15Received from E. L. Wood
ward, Cashier...................... 500 00
Feb. 20Received from E. L. Wood
ward, Cashier...................... 500 00
Apr. 21Received from E. L. Wood
ward, Cashier....................... 300 00
---------------$1,396 00
DisbuAsymy2Os'
1909.
Jan. 21Paid to Glee and Mando
lin Club......................................$ 150 00
Jan. 21Paid to Band and Or
chestra ...................................... 28 00
Feb. 26Paid for School Flag.... 33 00
Feb. 26Paid to White Friars.......... 300 00
Mar. 8Paid to Thistle..................... 100 00
Mar. 24Paid to Band and Or
chestra ....................................... 75 00
June 11Paid to White Friars.... 100 00
June 11The Committee approved 
for payment one-half of 
final deficit on account of 
publication of Thistle, af
ter money from advertis
ers has been collected
1908.
*Sept. 20Paid toward expenses 
of opening day games
at Oval ...................................... 25 00
*Dec. 1Paid for band at Penna.
foot-ball game ..................... . 65 00
Balance in Bank..............$514 00
$1,390 00
*The last two items were approved by the Direc
tor before the formation of the Committee on Stu
dent Organizations and Publications.
Respectfully submitted,
Wm' P' Fiyld$ Chairman.
ELIZABETH E' SHEETS'
Elizabeth Sheets has fulfilled her position faith
fully on the Tartan Board, and now as she leaves 
the post, we wish to thank her for the work she has 
done. She has done it all unaided, and deserves all 
the credit due her.
Miss Sheets is one of the brightest girls in the 
graduating class, and it is with pleasure that the 
Faculty confer on her an honor from the Household
Arts Department. In Chemistry she is particularly 
brilliantin fact; go much so that she leaves the 
school only to come back as a graduate assistant to 
Professor Esquerre. Her work in all the branches 
of study leaves nothing to be desired. Those who 
have been her classmates know her delightful fund 
of humor and have learned to rely on her for sym
pathy. She leaves behind her an excellent record 
that will not soon be forgotten by either Faculty or 
students.
TO SUE E' WATSON'
Dear Sculptor Sue,
Im loving you,
Because you've got the grit 
To model me,
And I can see 
That you will make a hit.
And understand 
The masters hand,
Is he or she who grins,
And bears each cross 
And laughs at loss,
And by persistence wins.
So work, and work,
And never shirk
Nor think of worldly helpWhile soul and heart 
Is in your art,
Be master of yourself.
Capt. Jack Crawford.

---------------------------------------------------

8THETA RTAN
THE TARTAN
PublisZyd Wyykly DuAi2g OZy SfZool YyrA by SOu
dy2Os of CrA2ygiy TyfZ2ifrl SfZools$ PiOOsbuAg$ Pr'
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief. 
Theron Wasson, 11Assistant Editor-in-Chief. 
Howard P. Mason, 10Sporting Editor.
J. H. Taxis, 10, NightAssociate Editor. 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.Associate 
Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
SubsfAipOio2 RrOys
Yearly ..................................................................... $2.00
Single Copy .......................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
It has grown to be a custom, for the retiring edi
torial staff of TZy TrAOr2 to give the control of the 
issuing of the last number of the year entirely to 
the new board of editors. The board being selfperpetuating, in a limited sense, feel that at the 
present time, when it is not as fully organized as 
it will be in the fall after the opening of the school 
year, that any statement regarding the policy of the 
paper can only be tentative, but can state that the 
paper will be steadily improved. Not all the ar
rangements for the permanent news staff have been 
made, but such as are announced in the list above.
We desire to extend our thanks to the ones retir
ing, and state that such altogether harmonious and 
friendly relationships existed all year that it is with 
the deepest regret that we see them leave. It has 
been a pleasure to work in such an atmosphere.
It is very gratifying to notice that the sorry con
dition of the ground lying between the Applied Sci
ence and Apprentices buildings is being improved 
by the expenditure of considerable time and effort. 
The heavy grading done last year left the contour 
an uneven heap of rocks that have not been there 
long enough to become picturesque. We feel with 
the present work in progress, that by the time the 
Schools are ready to open in the fall, the appear
ance in the campus between the buildings, which 
will be the central feature of the ornamental land
scape gardening when the buildings are completed, 
will surprise us all. After so much trouble experi
enced in getting the ivy started up the walls, it
seems to be very well established and soon will be 
covering up the flaws in the brick work.
The Independent for May contained an article 
on the University of California, and we reprint that 
portion relating to the method in vogue there, by 
which the student body do most of the work in con
nection with the beautifying of the campus:
A California custom that could be adopted by 
many other universities, much to the improvement 
of their looks, is Labor Day, when all the students 
turn out to beautify the campus. It is like a scene 
from a utopian romance, the wageless workers, ready 
to do anything useful, each according to his ability, 
all duly co-ordinated and directed by volunteer ex
perts; the civil engineers superintending the grading 
of roads and the cutting of new paths; the arboricul
turists the planting and trimming of trees and shrub
bery; a season of general cleaning up, clearing out 
and putting to rights; a working day of socialistic 
brevity, for shortly after noon the boys are called 
from their labors to a bean feast prepared by the 
girls in the gymnasium, and the afternoon and even
ing are spent in sports and merry-making. The 
value of the work done last Labor Day is estimated 
at $2,800, but the greater gain to the university in 
the development of an interest in the looks of the 
campus cannot be calculated in dollars.
It is hardly necessary to make any comment on 
what can be accomplished, when wholesome, wholesouled spirit is behind a movement. Let us ho'pe 
the day will be near at hand when Carnegie Tech 
can do as wonderful and praiseworthy a thing.
The University of California Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs have been engaged in making one of the 
longest trips ever made by college clubs. As guests 
of the Santa Fe railroad, they have been travelingpat that companys expense giving concerts in rail
way Y. M. C. A.s along the line. Last week they 
were in Chicago, 2,000 miles from home, and gave 
a concert at the University of Chicago.
The Bucknell Operatic Society recently presented 
the Chimes of Normandy.
Pa heard him give the high school yell,
For joy he couldnt speak;
He 'murmured, Mother, listen 
To our Willie talking Greek.Ex.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANQ
Resources One Million Dollars 
-----------ABANK THAT IS
Deposits Six Hundred Thousand Dollars 
STRONG------------
In Assets, in flen, in Courtesy and in the desire to make ts services of practical 
value to every man or woman who favors it with his or her account
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS AND PROFITS OVER $150,000.00
PLEBE CLASS
in the foundry. Perhaps hethought it was an in
vading army.
SectionDs watchword: Have you gotten your
Elementary Mechamkins?
Well, at last, the term has closed. It hardly 
seems possible that an entire school year has passed 
since we first met at Carnegie Tech. And yet, the 
friendship and comradeship which has been devel
oped in this seemingly short time, causes us to feel 
that we have been life-long friends. Perhaps it is 
just this close fellowship which has given us suc
cess as a class; which has made the class of 1912 
truly great. It should be the earnest desire of every 
1912 man that this fellowship continue.
As the years of our sojourn at Tech pass by, the 
fellows will slowly but surely drop out. Already 
a number have left us from various causes. But it 
is to be hoped that their interest inthe school and 
class will continue.
A good point that might be brought forth, too, is 
that the class is secondary to the school. In some 
institutions of wThich we know a little, class spirit 
is held above school spirit. But this is not right, 
and therefore, may the class of 1912 ever strive to 
raise the standards of Carnegie Tech higher than 
all other standards.
So, here is to the school, the class, and the fellows.
Spielberg broke into the limelight again during 
Foundry exam; his final appearance, doubtless. He 
wanted to know what kind of soldiers were used
During the shop exams, Mr. Pfouts resembled a 
sort of miniature information bureau. Questions of 
ail kinds were hustled at him from all directions 
until it looked as though he were undergoing an 
examination instead of the Plebes.
The Plebe class was honored by the presence of 
a number of Seniors in English .exams. These latest 
acquisitions should be congratulated on their choice 
of company. -  - . -
Some one said that Porter was going to be a 
waiter this summeiv - Porter overheard the remark 
and replied, How can a porter be a waiter?
PERTINENT AND IPERTINENT'
Cummings had a guilty conscience for the first 
time on record. He knew why it was Prof. Willett 
told him to go see the Dean. English themes 
founded on the Debs system of Philosophy do not 
seem to make a hit.
The Commons will be run next year at the same 
old stand. Manager Steer expects to inaugurate 
a meal ticket system which should appeal to the 
students.
*A FAOUS NEW YORK HATTER AKES
COURT
TECH-N EGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.Otto Getting
FifOZ r2d Wyliy Syvy2OZ r2d SmiOZfiyld
!
*

---------------------------------------------------

IONI^ NmyNmj
A 'yfZryZ2' O $ON, py22 r2d fAr2ksOow2 rvys'$ y' y'
ESTABLISHED IN 1867
 OUR SHOES ARE ALL LEATHER  MADE BY THE MOST FAMOUS MANUFACTURERS BOTH EAST AND WEST 
$6 50$ $5'50$ $5'00$ $4'00$ $3'50$ $3'00
A' yf AZZ fr2 SWELL SHOD SHOES y S4.00 yOZ $i2
--------SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS---------
AFTER YOU$ Y DEAR GASTON'
We called him chief, and we did well to call him 
chief, who for three long years has met upon the 
school arena every form of office and responsibility 
that the place affords; who never shunned a duty, 
or missed a chance to argue on any topic whatsoever. 
He landed at Tech at the proper psychological mo
ment. F. E. Foster had the crowd on the run, and
was in need of an assistant who had tact in manip
ulating the politics of the time. Gaston filled the
place. He delivered his first Philippic, when, at the 
preparation for the first Founders Day, a call was 
made for students to parade in white duck suits. 
For various reasons we will omit quotations from 
the tirade, but suffice it to say, that he did not gain 
his point. The effect was quite marked, however, 
as it brought him before the public in a way that 
was never forgotten.
The engine room became his den, and there his 
policies of government were formulated. He is ready 
to argue anything from the possibility of Hans WagLer living to be one hundred, to the expediency of 
banishing the Japs from the Pacific coast.
Well now, Ill tell you. You see its just this 
way. He will use it to open the conversation 
about .the weather; use it as a preface in explain
ing that you do not happen to know anything about 
the three-wire system of a two-voltage system, or 
use it as the grand introductory overture to a lec
ture on the "Rights of Trains on a Single-Tracked 
Railroad, or What it Feels Like to Fall Backwards 
off a Locomotive Going 45 Miles an Hour. Elbert 
Hubbard is his patron Saint, and he spends much 
time defending his teachings.
A short sketch of his career might not be amiss. 
He was born in the State of Oregon, A, D. 1880.
His ancestors on both sides of the house come from 
a long line of Presbyterian ministers, which fact 
alone accounts for much of his talking ability. 
When at an early age, his parents moved to the 
little town of Tacoma, which is in the State of 
Washington. Here little Freddie grew up surround
ed by the great resources of the Northwest. Each 
year he watched the salmon crowding their way to
ward the rivers source, and counted the great rafts 
of logs as they floated down to the mills. He 
yearned for a life of activity, but was so brilliant at 
his studies that it had already been ordained he 
should follow in the footsteps of his illustrious an
cestors. In 1888 he shocked his friends by declaring 
he was going to war. Having already been vacci
nated for the ministry, and just to prove that the 
required conditions were not in his system, he en
listed in the First Washington Volunteers, and saw 
eighteen months of service in the Philippines. This 
military experience did much to round out his na
ture. Between making love to dark-skinned maid
ens, service on keg party committees, and the guard 
house, his itime was well spent in aiding in the ex
tension of United States territory. He developed a 
love for the army which is second only to his love 
for rice, and those who eat it exclusively. Not being 
a member ol' any Veteran's Association, no pensions 
are drawn.
After being discharged and gradually drifting 
West, he was in turn, stationary engineer, Japanese 
interpreter, brakeman, fireman, cook, lumberjack, 
and moderator in a ladies Seminary. In 1906 it 
happened that our genial friend was working in 
Chicago, and had about decided to attend the Ar
mour Institute, when he heard of Tech, and came 
here purely on suspicion. His successes here may 
be a small matter compared with the multiplicity 
of former experiences, but we have a notion that he 
is leaving here with a satisfied feeling. Fond of 
the East, his statements in regard to the Western 
craze serve as a negative check on the advice of 
Horace Greely.
If the University of Chilcago were ever to estab
lish a chair of Argumentation and Diplomatic Bluff, 
with a department devoted to Attitude Toward the 
Work, Gaston would be the man for the place. All 
hail the Mighty Heff, King of Mixers.
President Northrup, of Minnesota, captured single 
handed, two academic students violating the rule 
against smoking on the campus.

---------------------------------------------------

ag. a;a;,
APPRENTICES AND JOURNEYEN'
FrfulOy RyZyrAsrl'
Did you ever stop to think just how tedious and 
troublesome it must be for roses to thrive among 
a patch of thorns, or how hard at is to smile and 
appear interested in something which you utterly 
despise? Have you experienced it? Can you im
agine it? Isnt it immense?
How would you like to be one of the First Year 
Industrials, domineered over by a corps of surly, in
considerate, unappreciative old instructors? Do 
you think it would be interesting? Would you like 
it? NO. Of course not! Well, neither would they, 
and what s more they do not have to, for such is 
NOT the case.
On the contrary, the First Year Industrial squad 
of teachers, are men on the job. Taken all ,in all 
they are one grand party of royal good fellows. 
They furnish the bulk of the faculty stamina in 
Athletics.; do the major share of the rooting, con
tribute their financial support with a will, and teach 
with a deftness unsurpassed.
Well, all this good team work needs to be ably 
captained, and I dare say it is not necessary to men
tion the name Dean Connelly for you to know just 
who this captain is.
Whenever theres a banquet the first man you 
think of for toast-master is Dean Connelly. When
ever you have any troubles, he is the first man you 
look for. In fact, to say the word Connelley is to 
feel a refreshing breeze of good fellowship strike 
you full in the face. Then theres that man William 
Pfouts, who pitches on the Faculty Base-ball Team 
sometimes, and who turns up all the GOOD bats 
for the Varsity. I do not know whether you have 
made note of it, but like George Washington, Abra
ham Lincoln, and William McKinley, he is minus 
the middle initial in his name. Hes peacock 
proud about it, too. And when it comes to telling 
stories with William Pfouts, the historical and pro
verbial Pat fades into oblivion.
Edwin H, Smith is an up-to-date assistant in the 
Patternshop. If you want a block of wood planed 
perfectly square, give it to him, and when he has 
finished, if you wailt to know the reason he did not 
use a square on it, ask him. Hell say, because 
your Uncle planed it.
Have you ever been up in New York State? They 
raise some pretty fine stock up there. Never be 
tardy in attending a school banquet, for mark my 
words, if you are and miss Mr. Birges speech, you 
have missed one of the tidbits of the evening.
Alas ! ! ! John D. Rockefeller has a bitter rival. 
But although continued mathematical research has 
crowded the hair right 'out through the top of Mr. 
Burns head, he doesn't seem to notice it at all.
Mr. Brown is going out for catcher on the faculty 
team this year, that is, if Fred Hunt doesnt draw 
end views of boilers and flywheels all over his new
-frvBest Store
FORBES r2d ATWOOD ST'
 OAKLAND
i Special Sale  Summer Underwear
w Union Suits in Athletic Style, three quartet length
X and ankle length, no sleeves and one-fourth sleeves
S $1'00 A SUITn SummyA Hrlf Hosy25f35f50f
# 
I 2ANf TyRNZf g
COLLARS8I
?
STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS
& Bell Phone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main
SERVE
1ALLEH
ICE I CREAM
AT YOUR 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
3618 Forbes St.
uniform. Oh! by the way, the First Year Indus
trial draftsman gave an afternoon tea at Browns 
house a few days ago, and through a glaring over
sight, the servant passed up Hunt. He said not a 
word, but later in the evening called Brown aside 
and told him that he did not serve the tee-square. 
Some are born lucky, some achieve luck, and 
some have luck thrust upon them. Thats w'hat they 
say about Thos. F. Payne from Boston, the man 
who DOES things in the plumbing shop. I believe 
theyre right, too, because they certainly do hand 
him a lot of pipes.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
With the proper kind of a mustache Nolan would 
look not unlike President Taft. He should have 
been a politician, not a bricklayer.
Hugh A. Calderwood and his Assistant R. C. Da
vidson, are a couple of electric wiremen. Under
stand me, they are real, live men; electric wire, 
pertains merely to their business. It is not meant 
that they are insincere, when one says they are in
clined to make light of things.
Theres one nice thing about Mr. Leighou, and 
that's the good care he takes of his students. He
never passes around the cigars, but he has a good
reason. While he was studying Chemistry at col
lege, he worked hard one afternoon and collected a 
large jar of hydrogen, with which to make numer
ous tests. Being self-satisfied with his work, and 
just a little fatigued, he pulled a small box of 
matches and a couple of cigars from his pocket, and 
passing one to a friend who was standing with him 
close by the hydrogen, remarked, Well, heres
where we blow ourselves, old man. And they did,
right through the open window.
Mr. Bassett is a. perfectly straightforward sort of 
fellow, a former member of the Harvard Base-ball 
Team, and one who finds the moves in chess playing 
anything but self-evident.
Hockey is not the only thing they have in Canada. 
They have some first-class machinists there, or else 
Mr. Hepburn is hazy about his birth place. They 
say he is quite a skater, but so far nobody has wit
nessed any exhibitions.
You have noticed how slow some of the Indus
trials go about their work in the Machine Shop, 
havent you? Well, that all comes from listening 
to Mr. Hamilton talk. It is not known just where 
he hails from. Like the case of Edgar Allen Poe, 
there is considerable uncertainty about his birth 
place. The people of Sleepy Hollow claim that he 
came from Bingville, and the folks at Bingville say 
he was born in Sleepy Hollow. It would be unkind 
to state personal views on the matter. He is, how
ever, a good mechanic, good instructor, and good 
fellow; that he speaks so droll is not his fault; he 
just grew that way.
Outside of being a number one English teacher, 
who practices what he preaches, M. Markle Steen 
is business manager of the White Friars, a near 
actor, and a connoisseur of ties and collars.
vVWTVT vWvWyV'^VTVTVTvVWTWTvTWTWTVTU'l
 OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET '
O DEALERS IN
* BUTTER$ EGGS$ POULTRY$ CHEESE$ TEA$
* AND COFFEE
Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley.3714 Forbes Street. 4
O\O\O\OSOSO\C>SO\OSO\O\O\O\O\O\0\O\O\
I A Gold Enameled Tech |Button gratis with every  
Straw hat this week.
0
D
THESE BUTTONS WILL ONLY BE g
 I
GIVEN TO TECH STUDENTS.
Did you ever take Algebra under John T. Morris? 
Well, he has a system all his own and its not the 
Hindoo method, either. Hes famous for assigning 
long lessons, playing .poor basket-ball and making 
witty remarks. One day an Industrial was up at the 
board trying to add (x2 + y2) and either through 
confusion or ignorance, he got (xy4) for an answer. 
Morris just looked over the top of his glasses and 
requested to know what the sum of a pear and an 
apple would equal. Why,a pear and an apple, 
said the young hopeful. Well, dont you see? said 
Morris, you have added a pear and an apple to
gether in your equation and you got a lemon in an
swer. Of course, the butt end of the joke had to 
be a First Year Man.
The way C. C. Leeds, the retired Athletic Associa
tion Treasurer, goes out after your loan toward 
building the new Tech Field, one would think him 
a natural born GRAFTSMAN, but instead he is 
a natural born draftsman. Aint it funny what a 
difference just one letter makes.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
T2Z NZW FAf
Short Vamp Oxfords for the Young Men
6222 FRANKSTOWN STOEBENER 3 east END
DURING VACATION'Every student in all the schools knows Mr. Leeds, 
but few know how hard he has plodded to make the 
proposed new field a realization.
'Way far up in the wilds of Wisconsin, where they 
say trees grow one hundred and ninety feet in 
height, and the men grow tall in proportion, there 
once lived a redhead named William H. Dosey, 
whose long suit is to get all by himself in a big 
room at Carnegie Tech (where he is THE man in 
the Foundry) and play in the sand.
Never having had the opportunity of seeing Dr. 
John A. Schaeffer in action, it is impossible to say 
just what tactics he employs when playing basket
ball. Every year the married men face the single 
men in a battle royal, or it should be said, basket
ball game, and Mr. Schaeffer, who is head coach on 
our Varsity team, plays quite a prominent part on 
the single mens side. Some say he was a very 
rude player, others even go farther. Outside of 
basket-ball he devotes his time to instructing the 
Industrials in things Chemical, and incidentally it 
was he who took that little aerial sojourn in com
pany with iMr. Leighou, through the open bay win
dow.
John Samson Taylor is a man whom its interest
ing to work under (he wont let you loaf). The 
many tricks to the trade of forging, which is a 
trade requiring skill and active 'brains, make it one 
of untold interest. The man is master of his art, 
and somewhat of a humorist as well. Should you 
get a hot spark in your eye, Mr. Taylor is always on 
hand with some comforting remark, such as: Pay 
no attention to it, my boy, it may not happen again 
for two or three minutes.
AAmr2d L' BoulfAois'$
Owing to the small seating capacity of the chapel 
the commencement exercises at Ohio State Univer
sity will be held under a large tent seating 3,000 
people.
As soon as the last exam, is over the boys scatter 
in all directions. Some are going home, others have 
jobsall are glad to have a change.
The following list shows what a few are going to 
do: 
W. F. Glasser has a position with Luffer & Remick, 
Civil Engineers, of Buffalo. He will have charge 
of a piece of R. R. construction at Rochester, N. Y. 
Cornelius has a position on a R. R. survey at Grove 
City, Pa., and Bun Mason is going to Wyoming. 
Bill Wagner expects to explore the iron mines of 
Minnesota. Bascom is going to do hydrographic 
work on New York barge canal survey. Johnson 
has position in structural department of McClintic 
and Marshall. Techmont Stevenson is going to To
ronto. Hicks Walton is going to Chicago, where 
he has an interest in a working girls charity or
ganization. Manager Neel expects to stay at home 
with the children.  Molly Kennedy says he is 
going to work the Pennsylvania Co. for 25 per. Per
 what? McCorkle will see dear old Texas this sum
mer. Warne has position as rodman on New York 
Central. iMitchell is night and day watchman at 
Kingsley House.
For brevity we have tabulated some of the Plebes:
Name. Summer Occupation.
CalvarlyLoaf, as usual.
BuenteCook on western wheat ranch.
PorterHead waiter at same.
MullenWater boy at same.
HittnerPlay ping-pong.
HendersonRun races at summer picnics.
Shorty BrownShrink.
AshtonTrying to grow fat.
DillFarmer.
OsborneDoubtful.
BradyDitto.
SandsLineman for Southern Bell Telephone Co.

---------------------------------------------------

HTHE TARTAN
GLEE CLUB CONCERT ON HOTEL SCHENLEY 
LAWN$ TUESDAY EVENING$ JUNE 15TH'
This season is filled with class banquets, dances, 
&c., which is necessarily limited to the Senior 
classes and the faculty. But Tuesday evening, on 
Hotel Schenley Lawn, there will be a concert by 
our Glee Club, to which we may all well be proud 
to bring our friends and relatives. With the excep
tion of the graduating exercises, this is the only 
event which is opened to all. The advancement of 
our Glee Club this year has indeed been marvelous. 
About three-fourths of the singers entered last fall 
as raw material, but Mr. Dorringtons remarkable 
ability and perseverance has developed the club into 
an organization, of which any college would be 
proud. The boys have given fifteen concerts this 
season, and have met with wonderful success on 
every hand. The Greensburg dailies said: This
club has the reputation of being the best organiza
tion of its kind in this college district, and they cer
tainly did substantiate their reputation.
The concert on Tuesday evening is a joint one 
with the Pittsburgh Festival Orchestra. The mere 
fact that our boys can put themselves on a basis to 
give a joint concert with this organization estab
lishes a standard for them.
Advance indications are that there wlil be a large 
and decidedly Tech crowd at Hotel Schenley 
Lawn on Tuesday evening. Come and bring vour 
friends, and let them see the true Tech spirit, for 
it will be rife that evening.
Tickets are all alike, at 50c each, and can be had 
from members of the Glee Club, or will not be re
fused at the gate.
$IZ $ JAAN OI'
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JAES B' S' PE & CO'
NoAOZ Sidy$ PiOOsbuAg$ Pr'
0 GOOD THINGS TO EAT
 at the Pure Food Stores of
S GEO. K. STEVENSON  CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Higland and Center 
East End
Before going out get a shave 
and massage at the TECH 
BARBERS. Two chairs all 
the time.
f,Qs0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\c>%0\0\0s<y\0\0\0s
in
*
----------W' S' BROWN--------- *
523 Wood St., Pittsburg %
Baseball, Fishing Tackle, Tennis, Golf Supplies, and all. "I* 
ATHLETIC GOODS >
Fine Cutlery a Specialty &
*
Jfm A JfJfm A AAA A
I ARTISTS MATERIAL
* OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
| B. K. ELLIOTT COMPANY
108 Sixth Street (Bessemer BIdg.) Pittsburg. *
ANTI-FUSSERS LEAGUE'
During the spring term the fellows at the Woodlawn Cottage organized an Anti-Fussers League. 
Membership limited to those who never talked to 
girls. Every member was requested to make an ap
plication and a speciaj committee, appointed by 
President Bates, acted on it. During the term the 
following members have been in good standing and 
receive their medals this week: Thompson, Sprengle, Fidler, Patterson, Frederick, and Wallace.. The 
committee regretted their inability to report favora
bly on George D. Bet.
* PICTURE FRAING 2
2 AATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING 0 
CUT FLOWERS A| H3- w\ 'agi 
^ 3602 FoAbys SOAyyO' ^
The Standard of Excellence
Macfonalds
Cr2diys r2d Ify CAyrm Sodr Dri2Oy Lu2fZ 
Trblys foA Ify CAyrmFr2fy (BoxysBrskyOs 
FrvoAs$ EOf'
208 SIXTH ST' PITTSBURG$ PA'

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
SONG COPETITION'
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs make an announce
ment of a competition for a school march song, to be 
held under their auspices.
FirstThe competition is open to any bona fide 
student of the Carnegie Technical Schools, or to 
any alumnus.
SecondThere shall be a prize of twenty-five dol
lars ($25.00) awarded to the composer of the best 
march song, according to the rules of this competi
tion.
ThirdOne manuscript may be submitted by one 
or more persons.
FourthThe jury to be composed of two or more 
prominent Pittsburg musicians, and one student se
lected by the Glee and Mandolin Clubs.
FifthThe decision of this jury to be final and 
indisputable.
SixthThe Glee and Mandolin Clubs reserve the 
right to use any or all compositions submitted.
SeventhThe jury shall have the right to reject 
any or all compositions, should they find that none 
are worthy of the prize.
EighthThe Glee and Mandolin Clubs reserve the 
copyright and publication privileges of all composi
tions submitted.
NinthThe song is intended to be appropriate 
for all important C. T. S. occasionsfor marches 
to games, etc., singing at games, and at gatherings, 
and for Glee and Mandolin Club concerts. It is sug
gested that a lively, catchy song, easy for everybody 
to sing, would be most appropriate. It might pos
sibly express college friendship and ties, and to in
spire love for and loyalty to our Alma Mater. The 
Yale Boula or The Red and Blue of Pennsylvania 
might furnish a vague inspiration. For further ref
erences see Songs of all Colleges, published by 
Huids, Noble & Elldridge, New York City. Copies 
of this book may be had at local music stores.
TenthBoth the words and music of all composi
tions must be original.
EleventhAll compositions must be delivered 
without marks of identification to the manager of 
the Glee and Mandolin Clubs on or before October 
15th.
The above announcement should arouse consid
erable interest among the student body. Coming 
at this time it allows the students to think over the 
matter during the summer, and gives the Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs an opportunity to learn the prize 
song before the season of concerts begins.
%O SHUAN$ TZy DAy Clyr2yA$ rO 3911 FoAbys
*
^ SOAyyO$ 2yrA BfquyO SOAyyO$ flyr2s yvyAyOZi2g
4* pyAfyfOly; OAy Zim o2 youA 2yxO woAk
?
* SCHENLEY FARMS 2
FIFTH AVE' BELLEFIELD AVE' 
FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
For prices and terms apply 
ROO 1411 FARERS BANK BUILDING
*
*
$ WELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED
I Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co
301 SouOZ CArig SOAyyO
FOR EXPERTSENGINEERS$ ARCHITECTS$ 
DRAUGHTSEN  EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood SO'$ 6OZ Avy'
4* S
2 o2ogArm SfZool SOrOio2yAy$ gold oA i2 r2y 0
'2 x3? foloA$ fr2 by Zrd fAom iOfZyll$ SopZ' i2i2g$ 2
foA 50f pyA quiAy'*$
pVOVO%M%OVO*O\O\O\O*O\O\OSO\O*5;*\0%0% 
p PHILLIPS & ANNING
0 STATIONERS 0
& MAGAZINES POST CARDS g
3702 FoAbys SOAyyO
TOBACCOE CIGARS 
0 %
| R. W. MEDICK I
g CHOICE HOE DRESSED EATS AND 
 POULTRY
% Both Phones 3804 FoAbys SOAyyO &0 %
The result of this competition should fill a longfelt want, and it is hoped that many students and 
alumnus will enter the competition for the sake of 
student interest, and love for the Alma Mater, to 
make it a grand success, and give us a good Varsity 
song to sing at our big foot-ball games next fall.

---------------------------------------------------

i6THE TARTAN
PiSMSIBISSJSMSISJSMSSMSMSIBMSMSMEMSMSMMSISlSiSJicJ
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG
EST ASSORTMENT
m
East End Store:
Bell iioo Highland P. & A 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store: 
Bell i joi Court 
P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
frO4*0**D,!*04*O
Flowers
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con
sistent with the best quality.
1 A. W. $MIT2 $
*
2 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG$ PA' g
O 4*
*1*2**1**1*1**1*3ff*IX% %*1**1*I**|**|**i**1*"i*
XJO "ST 0"UL :iC33.-W
tliat we print more books than any firm 
in the East End ?............................................
X)0 2"OM !E^33.0"W
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine 
Printing?'............................................................
X)o "S^o-o.that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and attention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPAHE <fc BITSCHEH,
6117=6119 Kirkwood Street
1Th eh ah 1rt?T028h Mgr , Tartan, is 
our representative at  Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
>\ov>\ovov:v>\<>vo!%o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\o\
*
?V
?
$
8
$
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4$000$000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 41 ILLIONS
O*<HfrO^O4<>4<>*v^O4<i;i<>^O4<>4*O4*O<*O,,O,*O*0,|, 
1 2 
*o ?
<:?5
r. O r. }tfommy2fymy2O floOZiA'g *
Right styles for young menthe right cut 
and the right materialalso right prices. 5?
Assortment that will not only meet your 
wishes, but prices that will save you money. *
Evening Dress Suits, $38'C0 to $45'C0' *
Tuxedo Suits, $30'00 to $40'00'
Evening Dress Vests, $3'50 to $10'00'
BOGGS & BUHL *<Q
j^o%tt^3ttxo\ov^%a*o*ov^o%o%o%o\o\o%
8 A. G. SPALDING & BROS. I
ARE THE LARGEST MAKUFAC IURERS IN THE WORLD OK
OFFICIAL EQUIPENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes-------
IF YOU are interested in Athletic Sports, you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. It's a complete encyclo
pedia of What's New in Sport" and is sent free on request
The Sj aiding Trade-Mark is known through
out the World as a Guarantee of Quality
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
439 Wood Street
= o?  *ft aas Hoou street Pittsburg, Pa.
*V vi V?
BEST EQUIPMENT 
H ighest 
Grade 
Work 
Prompt 
Service
BoOZ PZo2ysEsOrblisZyd 1893
I *v Amo2g ouA mr2y 2yw OZi2g's foA SpA'Ag$ wy O
fA wisZ Oo frll youA rOOy2Oio2 Oo fuA u2usurlly lrA^y ^
# vrAiyOy of sOyly$ rO O
%oso%o%o'%o\o\oso%o\o'\o%ovo\o>%o%a^oxo
$3.50 and $4.00
VRY ETRHI NGB ORVDYV TDRs ADK
HANAN & BAKER SHOE CO.
435-37 WOOD STREET
