SCIENCE STAG 
UNION 
SATURDAY NIGHT(Uhr Otaran
_ .BOOST'THE 
NEW ATHLETIC 
PROGRAM
VOL. XIV. No. 20.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 2.7, 192p.
MINUTES OF MEETING
CIRLS' MUSICAL CLUB CONCERT
The regular monthly meeting of the 
Board of Student Activities was held 
in the Central Building on the evening 
of Feb. 18, 1920.Present: Oakley, Tarbell, King,
Sprague, Schmidt, Stone, L*ashmit, 
Silling, Williams, Dobson, Highberger.
Absent: Hammon, Sadler Miss Grif
fin, Miss Schaffer, Miss Kelly, Craig.
The following motions were passed:
New Business
65. Voted that the report of the Eli
gibility Committee be accepted.
66. Voted that the report of the 
Puppet Committee be accepted and 
the Committee retained.
67. Voted that the Constitution ol 
the C. I. T. Girls* Musical Club be ac
cepted, that said club be taken under 
the jurisdiction of S. A. B., and that its 
budget for the season 1919-29 be ap
proved.
68. Voted that the financial report 
of the Treasurer be accepted.
69. Voted that the regular order"of 
business be suspended to discuss the 
deferment of the last regular S. A. B. 
meeting.
70. Voted that the resignation of 
Wm. H. Oakley 'as president of S. A.
B. be accepted.
Nomination and election of Presi
dent. Hammon, Silling and Stone nomi
nated for President. Silling declined 
nomination. Stone elected.
71. Voted that the Puppet matter 
be laid on the table.
72. Voted that the Business Man
ager of the 1920 Thistle be authorized 
to order 1320 copies.
73. Voted that the Business Manager 
of the 1920 Thistle be 'authorized to 
pay from this date on 15c/0 commis
sion on new advertising solicited by 
his agents.
74. Voted that the reports of the 
Business Manager of the Tartan for 
December and January be accepted as 
read.
75. Voted that the old committee for 
the establishment of the Advertising 
Bureau be discharged and another ap
pointed. 
76. Voted, that the President see to 
it that all managers of all activities 
get their reports into the hands of the 
secretary at least 24 hours prior to 
each regular monthly meeting of the 
S. A. B. and that the financial report 
blanks issued by the S. A. B. be used,
- 77. Voted that a committe be ap
pointed by the chair to arrange for the 
publication ol Student Activity mat
ters, and to arrange for the publishing 
of the minutes of the S. A. B.
78. Voted-that the matter of award
ing recognition buttons to Freshmen 
jl'or participation in noil-athletic activi
ties suggested by the Student Coun
cil be referred to the Insignia Commit
tee.79'.' Voted that the secretary be In
structed to acknowledge receipt of let
ter from Tau Beta Pi and to thank T.
B. P. Fraternity for its willingness to 
aid those who have hazarded their 
scholastic standing by devotion and 
participation in the activities of the 
school.Meeting adjourned.
PLAID FIVE DEFEATS WESTINGHOUSE TEAM
Presenting the best combination that 
has appeared on the floor this year, 
and playing a smooth game that was 
featured by teamwork, Carnegie Tech 
easily defeated the Westinghouse quin
tet, Wednesday night, 49-28.
At no time during the game was 
Tech threatened, Westinghouse being 
outclassed from the first minute of 
play. Levy, their guard, once a Tech 
man, was the mainstay of the Westing
house team and caused the Plaid a 
little more trouble than the other men 
hut a one man team isnt any good.
Red Godden played Moons place 
at guard well and several times during 
the game won applause from the spec
tators by his clever guarding. Lynn, 
chief scorer of the Tri-State League, 
played his usual game, making good 
15 of his 17 trys at foul goals. Hamman, Carey and Allen all got 4 goals 
each.
Westinghouse28 Carnegie Tech49
Reed .......................F.............. Hammon
Foxen ............*-----F...................... Allen
Reneaux .................C..................... Carey
Levy ......................G..................... Lynn
Robinson ...............G.................. Godden
Substitutions: Thompson for Foxen, 
Gibson for Allen. Field Goals: Reed
2, Foxen 2, Reneaux 2, Levy 1, Robinson 3, Hamman 4, Allen 4, Carey 4, 
Lynn 4, Godden 1.
Fouls: Robinson, 4 out of 10; Reed 
4 out of 5; Lynn, 15 out of 17.
.. RefereeDan Daugherty.
Friday night, February 13th, the C.
I. T. Girls Musical Club held the first 
concert of the year at the Central Y. 
W. C. A., on Chatham street.
Though the girls were a little nerv
ous at first, the entire program was a 
huge success. The Glee Club sang 
better than they ever did before and 
the stringerswell, they simply could 
not be beaten.
Though the audience was small, It 
was appreciative and repeatedly de
manded encore, to the extent of ex
hausting their entertainers material.
Much credit must be given to cer
tain members of the club. Miss Pickford, a M.M.D. Plebe, is an excellent 
leader. Her thorough knowledge of 
music, combined with natural instincts 
of a leader, enables her to bring out 
the best that is in the club, at all 
times. One number that was thorough
ly enjoyed was a violin solo by Miss 
Hazen. Miss Lutz, with her steel gui
tar, is the very heart of the stringers 
and a genuine artist. After two mem
bers of the Stringers tried to occupy 
the same chair, the audience was in
terested and the fun began. It will 
probably be a long time before the Y. 
W. girls (and their friends, especially 
their friends) forget Miss Richmond 
or Miss McClosky in their encore work. 
Miss McCloskybut just wait until the 
Home Concert and you will hear her 
yourself. This will be the concert roteveryone on the campus. The night 
of April 16th, the first home concert 
will be held in The Little Theater, 
and a large dance in the Design School 
foyer following the concert. Everyone 
on the campus out that night!
E STAG TO BE 
HELDjEBRUARY 28TH
The annual Science Stag, which is 
one of the really big affairs of the 
Science School, has again come around, 
It is to be held on the evening of Sat
urday, February 28. (No school Sun
day.)
This time, the stag smoker will be 
here with its old time pre-war pep, 
with which most of the under-class 
men are entirely unacquainted. There 
will be nothing like It to break up 
the general apathy, which has of late 
become so marked about the Science 
School, although the Plebe Poverty 
Day served to do away with it to a 
certain extent.
But in general there has been no 
"pep at all!
As a pep raiser the smoker will 
surpass anything that lias yet been 
produced. Every class is to present 
some special stunt, and judging from 
the way they are working, the stunts 
will be far from ordinary. Absolutely 
every Science man ought to be there 
to support his class.
The old pre-war pep must be re
established! Not only are the alumni 
asking where all Science spirit with 
which they were so familiar has dis
appeared to ,but also students who 
have returned after sevei'al years ab
sence.
Science men, get together at the 
smoker!
The committees are working hard, 
and it rests with you to make the af
fair a success.
Go!
No Science man should miss it. 
The Stag Committee consists of J. 
W. Towns, chairman; J. E. Bowler, 
Oberlin, Cunnigham and Griffin.
One of the unusual features will be 
the prizes to be presented to the 
classes producing the best stunts. 
What those prizes are to be only the 
Lord and the committee know, but 
judging from the rapidity with which 
the committee is changing its mind, 
the Lord may have to drop out.
' Whatever theyll be they will be 
appropriate.
And listen. Keep this under your 
hat, the faculty is also to pull off a 
stunt, which they are carefully keep
ing secret, and which is being worked 
on by a committee of the Science fac
ulty consisting of Mr. Simmons, Prof. 
Barnes and Prof. Follows.
We wish to reiterate that suitable 
prizes will be awarded.
It is up to the men of the Science 
School to make this smoker a howling 
success by being there, thats all the 
committee asks of you and' you may 
leave the rest to them.
Be there!
Bring back that Pre-war Pep.
Go!
At the Union, Saturday, the 28th.
2-28-20.
"POVERTY DAY IDEA PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
: Wednesday, was Poverty Day for 
the Science.-Plebes. At S:30 A..M. the 
procession, started , and . everybodys 
sight recorders were busy gazing at 
the next new exposure. Everybody 
had a smile and u festive spirit 
seemed to prevail on the whole 
campus.
- When those decorated Plebes at
tempted to-attended classes, as usual, 
they were refused admittance. Some 
of the faculty members did not know 
that representatives of - Barifum and 
Bailey were here' and they thought 
that they were dreadful, Indecorous, 
offensive, vulgar, naughty, naughty, 
ridiculous sights. The upper class
men soon came to the rescue and in
vited the class-less Plebes to their 
rooms.
At 11:30 there was a general as
sembly. Mr. Griffin, the chairman of 
the committee, took charge. The 
decorated, adorned, embellished and 
garnished Plebes were then reviewed. 
A mobile platform was erected and 
each contestant was allowed to make 
a bow to the spectators, while the 
judges analyzed his appearance. The 
Plebe that received most applause 
was dressed as September-midinght. 
Another desired to have a barrel for 
his cover, while three others thought 
that sacks would make a better fit 
than leaves. Others had gorgeous, 
shabby, . symmetrical, ostentatious 
pieces of clothes or rags on them. 
Tin cans, alarm clocks and many 
other instruments were used 'for send
ing off vibrations of greater ampli
tude. Everybody enjoyed the occa
sion, and the judges agreed that H.
C. L. could not have beaten the con
testants.
The three best men were supposed 
to be dismissed from Plebe regulations 
for the rest of the year besides their 
three other years. Since there were 
so many who were worthy of being 
winners, Mr. Griffin therefore an
nounced that the number to be dis
missed from Plebe regulations will be 
greatly increased. He thanked the 
Plebe class for their good spirit and 
showing, and promised possible re
wards for everybody that took part in 
It. A picture was then taken of tliq 
best Individuals and of the whole 
Plebe class.
Then came the beanery. A section 
of the would-be winenrs of the con
test desired to decrease their expenses 
still further, by using the floor Instead 
of tables and chairs. This sight caused 
the other fellows to abandon their 
material (used for supplying energy 
measured in heat units) and crowd 
around them, watching as they ate 
tho supposed-to-be digestive food. The 
sections next visit was to the Design 
School. Everywhere they received 
the bestattention.
Tills was a Science School affair 
and it was a success as usual, Is ev
erybodys view. It was carried out In 
good spirit and the Plebes haVe shown 
that they are worthy of being good 
future Tech men.
REYMER BROTHERS OFFER 
PRIZES FOR DECORATIONS
--WASTED EFFORT
Trying to walk gracefuly in a street 
car.
Arguing with a woman.
Running at ,8:37 a. m.
Fletcherizing in the Beanery. 
Giving a proof of a cigar. 
Explaining the box score to a girl. 
Writing the AnviL.
Reymer Brothers, Incorporated, have 
arranged a competition for the re
decoration of their East Liberty 
Branch. The competition, which is 
open to all Juniors and Seniors of dec
orators of the Division of the Arts, 
opened Wednesday, February 18th and 
closes Wednesday, March 3rd. Two 
weeks only is allowed for the problem, 
a very brief space of time In which to 
conceive a scheme, develop it and get 
it ready for presentation.
Two hundred and fifty dollars have 
been offered in prizesone hundred 
twenty-five dollars first award, sev
enty-five and fifty for second and 
third. The department of decoration 
being small and the number of com
petitors fairly limited enl'arges each 
competitors chances to a great extent, 
Everyone in the department is en
thusiastic and working hard so that 
there should be a great many inter
esting solutions turned in.
The jury will be chosen by Dean 
Bossange from local members of the 
profession.
The problem offers a great many 
interesting features as well as some 
very difficult ones, some of which 
would tax the ingenuity of even more 
experienced decorators. The. wall 
spaces are unsymetrlcal being broken 
into by necessary fixtures such 
dumb waiters, . elevator shafts, soda 
fountains and show cases. On the 
other hand the very nature of the store 
being a place for pleasure 'and recrea
tion, permits a freedom from conven 
tion and a more or less playful treat 
ment. This should be a source of 
pleasure to the student decorators, 
who-are, as a rule, forced to adhere 
to convention and the side of conserv1 ative restraint.
TEC TRICK TEAM HAS INTERESTING SCHEDULE
Tho track schedule for the spring 
season has been completed and some 
big work is ahead of the track team 
this spring. Due to the preliminary 
training that tlie men have been re
ceiving, all runners are in exception
ally good physical condition, and a 
very fast team is expected to result. 
The usual Inter-class meet will be held 
as usual this year, and It is hoped that 
this will be the biggest meet of its 
kind ever held at Tech. The .Schen
ley Oval has been reserved for the 
occasion, so that more men will be 
able to compete.
The schedule as arranged is as fol
lows:
April 23Inter-class Meet, Schenley 
Oval.
May 1Penn Relays, Philadelphia, 
Pa. '
May 8West Virginia, Morgan
town. W. Va.
May .15Geneva College, Schenley 
Oval.'
May 22Interscholastic Meet, Sclienley Oval.
May 29Allegheny, Meadville, Pa 
June 5Denison, Tech Field.
The Interscholastic Meet Is expect
ed to be a record breaker this year and 
250 invitations have already been sent 
to; the various high schools in Penn
sylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Mary
land and New York. The usual trophy 
will be presented to the winning team 
and medals to the men finishing first, 
second and third.
HNAIEL LONG WRITES 
POEM TO PRESIDENT
To an Educator
Memories come back to me of my be
ginning;
The contour of the mystic hills; the 
smell
Of the mock-orange; suns that sot In 
smoke,
And intonations of the folk I love 
Go down in me to roots of conscious
ness
Thought cannot follow. For our tran, qulllty
Trne human broasl has far too much 
emotion;
The places one has suffered, struggled, 
dreamed,
Take from the moments one has pass
ed amkl them 
A consecration not to bo gainsaid.
Slight things 
From their connections with the soul, 
acquire
A private value In their owners eyes; 
The flower he presses In a book, tho 
shell
He bears homo from tho soa. And 
when lie hears 
The mention of a village where, per
haps,
Me loved, or distant Island \vhere ho 
watched
A dear one die, phantoms rise In the 
mind
More moving than the shapes of ovei*y 
day.
So how much more complex bocoines 
remembrance,
Mow woven into city streets and 
houses,
In one like me, who still lives in me 
town
His boyhood knew. A man who loves 
his life,
Must love his city; it is part of him 
As he is part of it. And loving it,
1-Ie hates as I do things that desecrate 
That counterpart of his best purposes 
Which he imagines in it; and he given 
His wit and art to help that lucid mind 
Which wills to make his city beautiful 
By making It intelligent and free.
To President Hamedschlag 
from Haniel Long,
La Jolla, California.
30 January, 1920.
STU DENDACISSTAVVAV 
MCOFGPCM LC WGMHGBM
GRAPHICA GETS CLUB ROOMS
At the regular meeting of the Graphlea Friday afternoon announcement 
was made that Room 1 IS in Industries 
would be designated as the Graphica 
Club Room. This room has been used 
as a class room by the various instruc
tors in the Department of Printing, 
and its conversion Into a club room 
will be welcomed by all members of 
the department.
The room will be fitted up with 
tables and a number of the chairs re
moved, bookcases installed which will 
hold the collection of books on the 
Graphic Arts which is being gathered 
by members of the organization.
Plans were laid at the meeting for 
a campaign to be put . across In, the 
near future for supplying the stu
dents with calling cards, letter heads 
and bookplates. Several pleasing de
signs by Winslow for the bookplates 
have been accepted. All Interested are 
asked to watch for the advertising.
Following the meeting a photograph 
of the Xmas Card Campaign Sales 
Chart was taken and this will be 
used in Graphics publicity.
BGjRCLY C2 8AR"GP 8 MjZ22Y 2 KOMRj
The following program will be given 
by the Music School, Sunday evening, 
February 29, 1920. It was published 
in an earlier Issue but It was necessary 
to change the. date and tho program Is 
reprinted by request.
L. Sonata 1' Minor 
I II III 
Margaret Allison 
Ballade 'and Polonaise 
Henry Hary 
The Sussox-Mummers 
Carol 
Tarantelle
Joan Wossner 
Allemando & Gavotte 
Sorpnada 
Etudo Db
Robert McGowan 
Concert 3b Minor 1st movomont 
I-Ioraco Brown Sulnt-Soans
Pl'ano Quartette Eb Major op <17 
Sostonuto assal, Allegro mn non 
troppo Schumann
Allco Klrlc, Francis Kloylo 
Horaco Brown, Joan WOBsnor 
AccompanistsHolon Esholnmn and 
Allco Kirk.
----------B-------
Another very successful Student 
Vesper Service was held last Thurs
day at the First Baptist Church. Rev. 
Lucius H. Bugbee, D.D., gave a most 
interesting and valuable address on 
The Challenge of Faith. The solo
ist was Mr. Reese R. Reese, who gave 
The Publican, by Van de Water. 
Mrs. D. V. Murdoch gave some fine 
selections on the organ.
This week is going to bo especially 
Interesting. Rev. Edwin J. Van Etten
D.D., of Calvary Episcopal Church Is 
going to give a talk entitled Spiritual 
Goatfeathers. This will treat the 
same subject In religion that has been 
given so well as applied to business 
by Ellis Parker Butler In his book 
Goatfeathers. Dr. Van Etten Is a 
very forceful and Interesting speaker.
The soloist will be Master Rodger 
Ingham, the boy sporano, who will 
give two selections by Handel.
Ravel
Vieuxtemjs
Christmas
Graingor
Popper
DAlbert
Alforaky
Liszt
SOPHS DEFEAT JUNIORS
The Soph Chemicals doloatod tho 
Junior Brown.lo Gas Gonoral.ors to n 
score of 30 to 11, last Wodnosday 
Tho Juniors put up a good fight and 
tho Sophs had a hard time to kooj: 
them back. Tho lineup was as fol
lows:
Sophs!10 Junior11
Lovln ......................F.................. /Itman
Ortmiller ..............F................... Arnold
Hah 1 man ....................................................C...............Moyer, J,
Sayro ..........O................................. Swift
Meyers, S.................G............... Feldman
BASE BALL SCHEDULE 
NEARLY COMPLETED
Tho baseball men will start their 
work soon. The following schedule 
is complete with exception that Tech 
may play W. & J. on May 12.
April 21Duquesne University at home.
April 23W. Va. University at 
Morgantown. ,
April 24W. Va. University at Morgantown.
April 28Bethany College at home.
May 1Grove City College at Grove City.
May 6Grove City College at home.
May 8Juniata College at home.
May 11Westminster College at home.
May 14Buckness University at 
home.
May 15Alumni at home.
May  19Pittsburgh Collegian at 
home.
May 22Bethany College at Beth
any.
May 26Geneva College at Beaver Falls.
May 29Geneva College at home.
May 31Muskingum College at home.
June 3Juniata College at home.
June 4Bucknell University at 
Lewisburg.
June 5Penn State College at Penn 
State.
May 9Duquesne University at Du
quesne University.
All men send home for baseball 
equipment, The school canot supply 
all candidates at first.-----------0---------
TAU GAMMA PHI
ENTERTAINS PITT MEN
Thursday evening Tau Gumma Phi 
entertained the Gamma Sigma chap
ter of Delta Tau Delta, from Pitt, at 
a smoker. Feautring the entertain 
ment were Ozen and Roche, the Male 
and Female Dancers. Battling Monstream did himself credit against hjs 
much larger adversary Kaynel from 
Akron, in an exhibtion bout.
TECH FIVE LOSES TO 
WASH.-JEFF. QUINTET
Too Much Junior Prom 
Slows Up Work of Tartan
W. & J. defeated Carnegie Tech in 
a slow game Saturday night at Wash
ington, *13 to 32. The Presidents ran 
up a large score in the first period be
fore the Ski bos woke up to tho fact 
that they were playing basket ball, 
but the Plaid live rallied in the second 
half and made a much better showing. 
The Red and Black had such a com
manding lead that tliey were never 
threatened throughout the wholo con
test.
Unfortunately the Junior Prom was 
held Friday night, and to play basket
ball after dancing to tho wee small 
hours of the morning before is mighty 
difficult, as was demonstrated Satur
day. A Junior Proiu comes only once . 
in a lifetime and Is something which 
cant be missed, so we can excuse the 
members of the team lor attending. 
Their lack of sufficient rest was very 
apparent all thru the game. Playing 
at their usual spoody gait for 'a few 
minutes they would slow down until 
It. looked like a different team had 
taken the lloor. They would soon take 
another spurt, but could not koop up 
the fast, pace set by the Prosldonts.
Starting strong W. & J. ran away 
from the Skibos in tho first half and 
the tally at. tho conclusion Was 26 to 9 
In favor of tho Washington colloglans. 
Tho wearers of tho Plaid made but. 
two field goals In this half, both of 
which wore long shots, ono by 11am111111111 and tho other by Allon. Tho de
fense of tho Presidents during this 
period was superb, and only onco did 
tho Skibos ponotrato thru It for a shot 
under tho bnslcot.
Battling, howovor, with that grim 
determination which always character
izes tho play of tho Carnoglo Tocli athlotos, they camo back In tho socond 
half, and scorod 23 points to W. & J.s 
18. Tho varsity rocovorod their shoot
ing eyes and showod their real form In 
this period, taking tho bull aWay from 
W. &. .1. ropoulodly and outpasslng the 
Hod and Black llvo.
I-Iammann led In field goals with 
four, and Allon came In socond with 
two, Carey and Goddon both played a 
good floor game for Tech, Lynn shot
10 out of 2<l fouls, his foul shooting be
ing exceptionally good In tho socond 
half when ho made 11 out of 14.
ffllmor Carroll was tho Individual 
star of the gamo. Ho was active on 
the floor and tho big point scorer for 
his toam with five field goals and 11 
out of IK fouls for a total of 2-1 point. 
Capt. Henry also played well, scoring 
three field goals. Score:
TECH32 W. & J.- -13
Mammann ............I................. IC. Conn
Allen .....................I'1..................... Carroll
Carey (C) ............(J........................I0lelon
Lynn ....................(1..................... Henry
Godden .................G........................Kalwor
SubstitutionsW. & J., Temple!,on 
for Henry, McCandless for Carroll, 
Ramsey for Elolson, Fish for Kabmr,
C. Conn for It. Conn, Dunklo for C. 
Conn. Field goalsW. & J.Carroll 
5, Elolson 3, K. Conn, Henry 3, Kalaur, 
Ramsey, C. T. T. I-lammann 4, Allon 2, 
Lynn, Godden. Foul goalsCarroll 14 
out. of 18, McCandless, 1 out of 1. 
Lynn, 16 out of 22. RefereeA1 Sl'ach, 
Pittsburgh.
TAU SIGMA DELTA 
HOLDS INITIATION
The Sigma Delta Honorary Frater
nity Division of tho Arts held its first 
initiation and banquet of the year on 
Thursday, Feb. 12th, at the Schenley 
Hotel. The initiates were Luther S. 
Lashmlt, Harry F. Brenner and Robert
C. Bowers. Director Bossange and 
Prof. Dornberger were present. Spring 
elections will be made during the early 
part of March.
----------8---------
BEAUTY AND THE DICTIONARY
She lived next doora damsel fair, 
With eyes of blue, andoh, her hair 
Was glistening like pure, radiant gold 
Thats spun by fabled nymphs of old. 
I've watched her at her casement as 
she whiled long hours through,
Ive seen her in the mornings as fresh 
as diamond dew.
Ive gazed as from afar upon her 
pretty llltheHome form,
And heard her cheery laughter In. sun
shine and In storm,
But never have I spoken to this neigh
bor fair of mine,
Though often have I smiled 'at her, 
and answered she In kind.
And then I heard her at the phono, 
And curse the day 1 pulled that bone! 
She said, 1 soon him, and, Ive 
went,
And Can that stuff, "I bet a cent, 
And Aint you right, and then I've 
sawn
And now, alas, her beauty's gone!
Washington University (Mo.) Dirge.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.TM* TATAJ4FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1920.
drawingSuppliesA glance over our prices will convince you that you can buy high grade materials here at a saving.
STEINER & VOEGTLY
HARDWARE COMPANY
230-234 Diamond St., 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
SKIBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
BollSohonloy 380
MISS OLEARY
(Kormorly with J. 10. T. Shnmnii) 
DRY CLEANING REPAIRING 
Ludion' und Moii'h Clollion, Curvai 
ioti Out oi
3033 FORBES STREET (Ouklund) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
TECH BARBER SHOP I
NEAREST TO TECII
Cor. Craig and Forbes \
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
^ i^iT* rZ v-Li.* i-ti  vi* v-" 1 ~ -
ISuhpf SCIENTAN (flnmuTijuluui
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
flamuol Hi Goldonson, Pli. D., Rabbi. 
Tompln Study Tol., Cohonloy 27B.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10. 
SubjectThe Meaning and Test of Progress.
Snbbnth Service, Saturday Morning 
,.l 10:4S.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
Bolloflold and Fifth Avrmma
Rov, Robert MaoGowan, D. D., Minister.
Preaching Servlcas 11 nd B.
X Sunday nchool at 10. 
y Christian Endoavor at 7.% Wo want the Tech boy to at-Loud our services and loam to Y know uo an tho congregation of I "Friendly People" A hourly 
we I oo me a waits you.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
A8CENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. Sunday Servioea, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men's Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. CalYln.All Students Qenulnely Welcome.
Grace Church
(Reformed)BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. SERVICES:Sunday School 9:45 A. M.Morning: Worship11 A, M.
Social hour and Luncheon Tor stu
dents, 15c, at 0 o'clock.
Christian Endeavor 7 1*. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Musses: 0:30, 8:00. 9:00, 10:00 nail11:00 A. M. on Sunday and Holy Days.Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P M. Pew 68. Middle Ainle, for Tech Stu dents.
Sartan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entwcd in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Kditor-in-Chicf.................................................................................LeRoy E. Emcrich
Phone Hazel 9422
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIALSchool Editors
Managing EditorM. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
L. K. PaquinScience...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Assistant Managing Editors
F. I. SmithOther AssistantsC. L. LakeL. A. McCardell
News EditorArthur Lubin
J. T. AmesGertrude Baton
Associate News EditorMargaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele GumbertW. D. HallOlga Kiefer
Athletic EditorRalph Shanno
G. R. GoodrichBUSINESS STAFFAssistant Athletic EditorsD. A. SillersFred L. KnowlesN. E. Fox
S. P. SmithWm. Obenour
Circulation ManagerAdvertising Manager
H. G. AtcldcyM. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
WHAT ABOUT THE Y. M. C. A.?
Silence lias been the general attitude lately of the Y. M. C. A. question 
However this does not signify that the matter has been forgotten or dropped 
from consideration. On the contrary those who are interested in forwarding 
the movement have been investigating the situation from every possible angle, 
being encouraged in many instances and discouraged in few.
The interest of the student body does not appear to be very keen. In dis
cussing the former editorial, one man remarked that even if the school was 
so ungodly, he could not understand how a Y. M. C. A. would change It." Can 
it be that there are such unintelligent young men in our midst, in a school 
where brains count. We cant believe that he used them elllciently. 
not very much has been accomplished. The difficulty encountered is that the
In conferring with the Executive Board of the Y. M. C. A. of Pittsburgh 
administration cannot support this movement, at the present time. The char
ter of the institution states that no sectarian organization can exist, on the 
campus. The Tech Branch does not have to bo sectarian, however, and at this 
time the invitation Is extended to any who are interested, regardless of belief.
In order to secure a Student Branch It. will be necessary for those inter
ested to sign a letter requesting such an organization. If you are interested 
I his will be tho proper thing to do. Are you Interested?
STUDENTS VOTE TO 
SUPPORT 
OF EXTENDED ATHLETICS
Campaign Started.
The largest mid most enthusiastic 
mass meeting ever held by C. 1. T. 
took place last Wednesday, the object 
being to determine whether tho stu
dent body really Intended to support 
the new athletic program. Of late 
years there has been no larger demon
stration of spirit and it will carry 
the program through. The following 
was the program.
1. Band.
2, Cheers II. S. Yergey,
StringersM. M. D.
4. Announcement of ScholarshipsDean Tarbell.
5. Band.
(>. AnnouncementsL. E. Emerick 
Tartan, C. M. MuirStudent 
V capers.
7. Mandolin Club.
8. Introduction to Athletic Questions 
Mr. J. W. Batman.
5). Viewpoint of AlumniMr. Clar
ence Overend.
11. Viewpoint of the StudentsMr. 
H. G. Nichol.
12. Action.
The following pledges were made:
Triangle Club..............................$ 25.00
Mr. Chernoft*................................ 10.00
Puppet .......................................... 25.00
Mr. Schleifer .............................. 25.00
Freshman Architects ............... 25.00
M. M. B. Stringers................... 10.00
C. I. T. Band .............................. 25.00
28th Division Club .................... 25.00
Central Bldg. Staff................... 25.00
Sec. D. Science ......................... 10.00
Sec. K. Science............................ 50.00
M. M. D. Sophs......................... 25.00
Musical Clubs.............................. 25.00Phi Epsilon Pi ............................ 25.00
Soph. Commercial ..................... 25.00
Sec. C. Science........................... 10.00
Kappa Sikma Rho ................... 25.00
Industries Sophs ....................... 25.00
Opholeum Fraternity ............... 50.00
Industries Freshmen................. 25.00
Design School Corp ................. 15,00
Mr. McCauley.............................. 15.00
Xi Sigma Upsilon ..................... 25.00
Masonic Club .............................. 25.00
Sigma Rho .................................. 110.00
Woodlawn Club ......................... 25.00
Tau Bet Pi .................................. 25.00
M. M. n. Juniors ..................... 25.00
Social Work Dept..................... 25.00
M. M. D. Seniors....................... 25.00
P & D Illustrators................... 25.00
Dormintory No. (> ..................... 25.00
Dormitory No. 1 ....................... 25.00
Science Chemists Club ........... 25.00
Brenman ...................................... 10.00
A. A. E........................................... 25.00
Juniors Elecricals ..................... 25,00
Coal Miners .............................. 2/5:00
Science Freshmen .................... 25.00
Delta Upsilon............................ 25.00
Sec. R. Science.......................... 10.00
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .............. 25,00
Dragon Senior Ilonoary......... 25,00
Junior Mechanicals ................. 25.00
M. M. I). Freshmen ................. 25.00
Senior Commercials ................. 25.00
Sigma Nu .................................... 30.00
Former Gobs ............................ 50,00
Tau Gamma Pi ........................ 25i00
Soph Metallurgists & Miners.. 25.00
Federal Board Men.................. 100.00
Hollborger ................................. 25,00
Davenport and Fritz .............. 25.00
A. I). Clark................................. 10.00
Sec. Ail Industries.................. 10.00
Junior Chemicals...................... 25.00
Soph Chemicals .....................(> 25.00
Soph Civils ................................. 25.00
Junior Civils ............................... 25.00
Sec. A. Science ........................ 10.00
Theta Xi ..................................... 80.00
Automobile Course (Ind.) .... 25.00
Sec. K. Science.......................... 10.00
Science Seniors ........................ 50.00
Three Arts Clubs (Design) .. 10.00
Sec. O. Science ........................ 10.00
P. C. C. Club (Industries) ... 10.00
Tech Mechanics Club............. 10.00
Lawtochfrarie (Soph Society). 10.00
Delta Skull (Junior Society). . 25.00Lanice (to work for Coach
Hazel to earn money)......... 50.00
Amend ......................................... 10.00
There may be some donations which 
were not recorded.
Motion made by Mr. Fair:
That all men. day students, of Car
negie Institute of Technology contrib
ute not less than $5 each to the capital 
fund of the Athletic Association. This 
contribution to be colected at the 
time of registration for the spring 
quarter. Furthermore, that contribu
tions from the other undergraduates 
of the school be gladly accepted.
Seconded and unanimously carried. 
Amended by M. M. D. to read: 
Furthermore, that the students of 
M. M. D. be included in the $5 athletic 
contribution per student.
Seconded and carried.
The subscriptions are payable at 
any time to the treasurer of the Ath
letic Association. Record of further 
contributions and receipts will be 
made in each ensuing issue of the Tartan.
---------D----------NOTICE 
An important business mooting of 
the Carnegie Camera Club will be 
held Thursday, February 2(5 at 8 p. 
m. in Room .104 Machinery Hall. The 
main object of the meeting will be the 
adoption of a constitution and by
laws. An open forum will be con
ducted by the president.
This is not a professors club so you 
fellows who are interested in taking 
or making pictures turn out and help 
boost the club. Any student in any 
division of the school is eligible for 
membership in the club.
JUNIOR PROM SURPASSES 
ANY HELO PREVIOUSLY
^Committee Deserves Credit.
Friday night, February 13, at nine 
thirteen, the thirteenth annual Junior 
Promenade was started with Mr. Har
ry Aspinwall, president of the Di
vision of the Arts Junior Class lead
ing the grand march. He was follow
ed by Mr. Fred S. Bloom, president of 
Science Juniors and Harry C. Hammann, president of Industries Juniors.
Never before in the history of the 
school has such a prom been held. 
Every little detail was earned out to 
perfection and Signor Maggio would 
not permit a wallflower when his tenpiece orchestra started to play. The 
Schenley Ball-Room was prettily dec
orated with owers and vines and a 
hughe 13th PROM" in plaid letters 
was hung from the wall. The foydr 
was adorned with palms, potted plants 
flowers and vines. Floor layers were 
placed around the room giving a cosy 
home like appearance.
The program consisted of twenty 
dances and two specialty numbers 
were given during intermission; one, 
an Egyptian solo dance and the other 
a Scotch dance by a young profession
al performer. Supper was served in 
the banquet hall at 11:30 and it made 
a gay scene. The favors were silver 
jewel cases, which with the Tech seal 
upon them were very appropriate, 
and much appreciated by the ladies.
The festivities were ended at two 
oclock, not due to the wishes of the 
dancers but due to the hotel ruling. 
Never before were dancers more loath 
to leave a floor and all departed in 
the highest spirits and satisfied that 
this prom would be hard to beat.
The patrons and patroneeses in
cluded: President and Mrs. Hamerschlag, Dean and Mrs. A. W. Tarbell, 
Director and Mrs. W. E. Mott, Direc
tor Mary B. Breed, Director and Mrs. 
E. R. Bossange, Director and Mrs. 
J. H. Leete, Doctor and Mrs. E. Esquerra. Colonel and Mrs. J. C. W. 
Brooks, Colonel and Mrs. S. H. 
Church, Dean and Mrs. F. P. Day, 
Doctor Thomas S. Baker, Director 
Walter V. Bingham, Dean and Mrs. 
C. B. Connelly, Mr. and Mrs. Alan 
Beight, and Dean and Mrs. J. J. 
Morris.
The committee responsible for the 
success of the prom was headed by 
Clelland T. McClean, a Science Jun
ior, well known by his former experi
ences in running dances. He was 
ably assisted by Messrs. L. D. Petts, 
C. B. Schmidt, II. C. Nichols of Sci
ence; J. S. Todd and R. E. Dake of 
Design; and H. W. Lynn of Indus
tries Much credit is due to the com
mittee for the efficient way the detils 
were handled and the complete suc
cess of the big affair.
---------D--------
SCHOOL MINUS DISCIPLINE.
Eighty seventh and eighth grade 
schoolboys in a manual training class 
working with precision and at a very 
rapid rate, each on a piece of handi
work of his own choosing, and no 
teacher in sight.
I was astonished. The idea of a 
school in session and no teacher pres
entno one to instruct, hold the at
tention on the lesson, admonish and 
sometimes threatenthat was a new deal for me.
But it was even so. Every boy was 
set to work only after he had decided 
upon the task he wished to complete 
and had been shown carefully the 
drawings, blueprints, tools, and the 
like, necessary for creating his design. 
After that he was turned loose with 
his own time and energy. An older 
boy across the aisle would explain any difficult point.
Now, here we have the secret of 
the real school as against the arti
ficial school. Here we have creative 
energy applied eagerly to the thing 
it loves. Here we have the point of 
interest reaching out as a divine force 
from within and expressing itself in 
the thing in process of development.
Some day we shall wake out of 
this nightmare of hard discipline and 
ask always for the heart love of the 
young learner to point the way. Some 
day we educators so-called shall see a 
new light and we will ask God to for
give us for driving so many good boys 
and girls out of the school and into 
hard industry or vicious idleness be
fore they were mature enough to man
age their own careers. Some day it 
will all appear to the common eye as 
a big pedagogical scandal, this effort 
to run the pupils all through the same 
machine and call it an education.
After the easy rudiments of learn
ing have been mastered tnere should 
then be practically no course of study, 
but every child should be dealt with 
as an individualsome to master 
books, some to produce out of the 
soil, some to create out of wood and 
metal, some to weave out of yarn, 
some to paint pictures, some to hew 
and haul, some to dramatize or act, 
to command, some to minister to the 
sicfl and needy, some to blaze new 
trails through mountains, some to la
bor patiently with research, some to 
preach and proclaim a new mode of 
life, some to point the way of redemtion, and so on till all have found the 
peculiar light in their live sand fol
lowed it unto the day of self-perfection and beauty.
Thus after a mere beginning has 
been made the child will lead the way 
and the teacher will follow' as a mere 
guide. Thus the life more abundant 
may finally become the common lot of 
all young and growing personalities.
By Dr. W. M. Keever. 
Professor in the University of Kansas, terd ,.f
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool
Of finest Make
Durable
Lasting
Of latest Styles
Wonderful values
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlows Good Clothes
Opportunitys
Offer of Style-perfection
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them 
Ladie6 admire Men who wear them 
Others envy them
This is your chance
Here is your selection
Even no\V awaiting your visit 
SERVICE _F1RST!
Good Clothes
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.
MURADS are as different from
ordinary cigarettes as morning is from 
midnight.
If you want to economize youd better do 
it in some other way than by smoking cheap 
cigarettes.
The trifling additional cost of Murads will 
bring bigger returns in Quality than any in
vestment you ever made.
Because Murads are
100 PURE TURKISHTHE WORLDS MOST 
FAMOUS TOBACCO FOR CIGARETTES.
nuwiiiiiiniiiiiifliiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiisjniiii

---------------------------------------------------

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1920.THE TARTAN
00 YOU DANCE?
DANCING LE8SON8
JACQUES' 
CRAIQ AND FORBE8
CLASS AND PRIVATE 
DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
L argest Selling 
Quality Pencil in 
iitcY/orld
17 Black Degrees 3 Copying
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO. - N. Y.
DAVIS THEATER.
Yaleska Suratt, the noted star of 
the stage and the screen, is to head
line the Davis Theater program of 
Keith vaudeville during the week 
which begins Monday,. March 1. She 
will play a metropolitan romance, en
titled Scarlet, and will be supported 
by a cast of six well known .legiti
mate-actors, including Eugene Strong 
and Walter C. Percival. Jack La it,. by 
some: regarded as the successor of O. 
Herirjv and by all considered a most 
fascinating weaver of short stories, is 
the author of Scarlet. It is an in
cident of that underworld of which 
La it has made a thorough study and 
shows an effort to mix two distinct 
strata of society. Miss Suratt is cast 
in the role of a cabaret artiste who 
strives for and deserves to reach a 
higher plane of life. Miss Suratt is 
one of the best known women on the 
American stage. She began in musi
cal comedy and became a star, migrat
ing from this field to vaudeville, where 
she easily won headline honors. Re
turning to the legitimate theaters, she 
starred in straight comedy and then in 
the movies, becoming one of the films 
principal stellar performers. Her first 
effort at serious dramatic acting oc
curred in vaudeville, when she played 
Paul M. Potter's dramatic playlet, 
"The Purple Poppy. In her present 
vehicle, Scarlet, there is a run of 
emotion in which the lights and shad
ows play at cross-purposes, and in 
which, too, comedy leavens the loaf 
of drama. There are two scenes and 
the incidents are supposed to occur in 
1919, before prohibition.
From the period of the play, spoken 
of as B. P. 1919," it may be gathered 
that there is a strong element of com
edy in the story, and that Miss Suratt 
has opportunity for the lighter as well 
as t he darker shades of dramatic charJudging now by the War facts
The American Smoke 
is a cigarette
jVT OTonly because they proved 
1^1 such a necessity with our 
fighting men on land and sea, but 
also because they are the mildest 
form of smoking cigarettes have 
at last come into their own.
Today, among young men as 
well as old, plain men and prominent citizens,the cigarette is morepopular than cigar or pipe and as 
highly respected as either.
One cigarette in particular :.:cms, 
as the following facts show, to!.;.vc 
won a position as Americi. . f.rst 
choice in smoking, East and Yv esl, 
North and South  nation-wide.
and one cigarette in particular :
At Washington 
A fact:
In the Army 
A fact:
In the Navy 
A fact:
With our NG 
Ocean Fliers 
A fact:
FATIMAA Sensible Cigarette
Each day the Nations capitol sees a new throng of big professional and business men from every state in the Union. These changing hundreds of men buy more Fatimas than any other cigarette.
At the big army training camps during the war were thousands of soldiers from each State and Territory. At every one of these camps, Fatima was a leader.
The officers in our Navy come, of course, from every part of America. Of all the cigarettes sold in Officers Mess throughout the whole Navy, over 90% are Fatimas.
The 15 American men who flew on the NC-1,_NC*3 and NC-4 hailed perhaps from 15 different states. Of the 15, twelve chose Fatimas for that long, lonely, daring flight.
Just enough Turkish
M
EN keep switching from straight Turkish cigarettes because they contain tun much Turkish.They sccr.i ovcr-rich and heavy.
Men keep switching to Fatimas because Fatimas contain just enoug //Turkish just enough to taste right and just enough to leave a man feeling right, even when he smokes more than usual.
Are you smoking too much Turkish?
acterization. She is mat by any means 
a stranger to vaudeville, for in addi
tion to having appeared in "The Pur
ple Poppy, she played originally with 
William Gould, in a little travesty, and 
later presented Paul M. Potters The 
Belle or tlie Boulevards. In the older 
field of theatricals her notable suc
cesses included The Whooping Cough 
Girl, and "The Kiss Waltz. Miss 
Suratt is punctilious in matters of 
stage detail, and may be depended 
upon to provide a production for 
Scarlet that will compare in tech 
nique, stage craft, and cast assign
ments with the most complete whole 
evening dramatic entertainment. Her 
assisting players have all been drawn 
from the fore-ranks of metropolitan 
organizations, and promise a support 
for the star that will be well nigh 
faultless..
The Davis Management has sur
rounded this headliner with acts in 
the merriest mood, so that a composite 
program will be offered in which there 
is every element of really refined va
riety. Seats for the week will be 
placed on sale tomorrow.
GRAND THEATER
The all-star spectacle production of 
the famous morality play, Everywoman, built on a scale more beauti
ful and elaborate than any pliotodrama has ever been done before, will 
be the principal attraction at Pitts
burgh's New Million Dollar Grand 
throughout next Week, starting Mon
day morning, March 1. The Para
mount-Artcruft Company has produced 
it, using as a basis the story of the 
wonderfully popular speaking stage 
play by Walter Browne, through spe
cial arrangement with Henry W. Sav
age. For beauty and startling quality 
it is the screens greatest achieve
ment. One of the most outstanding fea
tures of Everywoman is its cast of 
notables. Violet Iieming, famous on 
stage and screen, has the title role 
and others in the company are Clara 
Horton, as Youth; Wanda I-Iasley, 
Beauty; Margaret Loomis, Modesty; 
Mildred Reardon, Conscience; Edyth 
Chapman, Truth; Bebe Daniels, Vice; 
Theodore Roberts, Wealth; Monte 
Blue, Love; Irving Cummings, Pas
sion; James Neill, Nobody; Raymond 
I-latton, Flattery; Lucien Littlefield, 
Lord Witless; Noah Beery, Bluff; Jay 
Dwiggins, Stuff; Tully Marshall, Puff; 
Robert Brower, Ago; Charles Ogle, 
Time; Fred Huntley, Dissipation, and 
Clarence Geldart, Auctioneer.
The story tells of Everywomans 
quest for love. Misled by evil com
panions, she does not realize that love 
comes when not sought, and gets on 
the. wrong path. Wealth, Flattery, 
Dissipation -and Vanity take her as
tray, and it is only after she lias 
gained wisdom through suffering and 
-privation that she proves successful 
iii her search.
The production is a revelation of 
what can be done in presenting lav
ish beaitty on the screen. Its cos
tumes are more glorious and numerous 
than those of a great musical show of 
tlie speaking stage, and Its settings are 
marvels of splendor. One Is fairly 
dazzled by the array of astonishing at
tractiveness flashed upon the screen 
a constant vision of magnificence. No 
expense has been spared to make It 
the finest thing of its kind. A feast 
for the eyes and the senses, it provos 
that it is possible to present extrava
ganza in pictures. In addition the 
film, which runs through eight en
grossing reels, contains a story of ex
ceptional interest and appoal. II. has 
been called the greatest of modern 
love stories.
The program will be extensive, in
cluding besides the eight-reel feature,
Christy Comedy, the Grand News 
Weekly and the Topics of the Day. 
The Symphony Orchestra, directed by 
Davis Broudy, will play a special musi
cal program with the pictures. Both 
orchestra and -pipe organ will enter
tain all day. Performances will be 
continuous from 10:00 a. m. till 11:00 
p. m.
----------0----------
AGE OF MANS PRIME
SHOWN IN REPORT OF 
HARVARD CONTRIBUTIONS
New York, Feb. 24.That men 
from twenty to thirty years out of 
college are at the height of their 
money-making ability is the inference 
drawn by Eliot Wadsworth. Chairman 
of the Executive Committee of the 
Harvard Endowment Fund, in his re
port, made public today, on the pro
gress of the campaign for a sum of 
15,250,000. Mr-, Wadsworth points 
out that -the-whole campaign proves 
that among the: alumni of a university 
there is an interest and loyalty which 
can be relied upon to support, finan
cially, the college and the cause of 
education.
Mr. Wadsworth's report is as follows :
The Harvard Endowment Fund 
campaign has been under way for 
four months. In that time scores of 
other colleges have undertaken to 
meet financial crises by similar move
ments. Probably $200,000,000 is be
ing asked from alumni of the colleges 
and from the public at large. It is a 
universal effort to meet the need 
forced upon the teaching institutions 
by the high cost of living. Some facts 
regarding the Harvard campaign, will 
be of interest to great number# of 
people.
Harvard appealed, primarily, to 
88,000 men who have been associated 
in any way with the University. Twen
ty thousand attended the College. 18,- 
000 the Graduate Schools. The 
amount asked was $15,250,000. The 
income from more than 80 per cent 
of this fund is to be applied to increasing the compensations of teach
ers. For fourteen years salaries have 
remained stationary. It was felt that 
50 per cent increase at this time was 
no more than fair.
 At the end of. four months, $.1 1,- 
759,1S1 have been contributed; $5 
401,250 has been collected in cash or 
securities, the balance is payable over 
a term of four years. Of the twenty 
odd thousand men associated with the 
College 11,440 have contributed. Of 
the sixteen thousand men associated 
with the Graduate Schools 3,410 have 
contributed. From 1,300 men and 
women not associated with the Col
lege or associated only through rela
tives, 01-500,000 have been received.
From the classes, beginning with 
1SC50, the results have had marked 
characteristics. The percentage of 
the living members of each class who 
have contributed steadily increased 
from the class of I860 to the class of 
1890. From 1890 to 1900 the per
centage is at its highest. The same 
is true as to the amount of the indi
vidual contributions. From 1900 on 
the percentages of givers have been 
slightly less and, as might be expect 
ed, the amount of individual subscrip 
tion has decreased. The highest per
centage of subscriptions in any class 
of lOt) in the class of 1852 (only five 
members living) with the class of 
1880 second with 62.3 per cent and 
1892 third with 57.2 per cent. The 
largest average contribution from a 
classthat of 18^2is $2,5G3. This 
would seem to show that men from 
twenty to thirty years out of college 
are at the height of their money
making ability and in a better position 
to make a liberal contribution.
The whole campaign proves that 
among the alumni of a universiay 
there is an interest and loyalty which 
can be relied upon to support finan
cially the college and the cause of 
education.
The campaign further proves that 
men and women who have no college 
affiliations have a deep-seated belief 
in the value of education to the coun
try. No individual can entirely deny 
responsibility toward the coleges. Ev
ery individual, whether a college grad
uate or not, uses doctors, lawyers, en
gineers, experts of all kinds, in' his 
daily life. Without this professional 
class, life would be very different. Mr. 
Frick and Mr. Rockefeller have amply 
shown their belief in the educational 
institutions of the country.
It is of the greatest, importance 
that the needs of higher education 
should be realized by every citizen. 
The campaign carried on by many 
colleges have contributed greatly to 
this end. The financial crisis which 
is facing our universities has made 
many realize for the first time their 
enormous asset value to the United 
States.
The Harvard campaign will con
tinue until the more than '$8,000,000 
needed to complete the fund is col
lected.----------B---------
The boys of the Industries school 
were given a treat Thursday after
noon when the Building Conatrulon 
Club invited them to a lecture on the 
use of limestone us a building ma
terial. The lecture was given by Mr. 
McGrath who is doing research work 
for the Indiana Livestock Co. Tho 
lecture was illustrated by three reels 
of moving pictures.
----------a----------
NOTICE.
Do you want work?
Arc you doing your part to get it?
Can you keep it after you have it?
The Bureau gets jobs which vary 
greatly in number and character so 
that you may not get just what you 
wish the time you call, but experience 
shows that the men who call most 
frequently are the men with the best 
part-time jobs. The Bureau must 
give service to patrons in order to 
have them remain as such and to do 
this means that we must have some 
one to do the work.
If the pay is such as to make it 
undesirable, report conditions to the 
Bureau so tht ahtey may be remedied, 
if possible. At the present time only 
about one hundred and fifty men call 
regularly at the Bureau.
Call every day until yuo get a good 
jobthen keep it!
----------0----------
NEWS ITEM
The poverty day parade will have 
to be done over again. Unfortunately 
one of the profs became mixed in 
with the plebes and was immediately 
given first prize.
----------0----------
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
inuiKxumtmmmmttmttnmmmxm n
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 1 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Boll Phono* 678 & 9109 8chonloy 
P. c/ A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITT8BURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packod and 8hlpp*d.
P. LUDEBUEHL ANO SON
PENN AND F * NKSTOWN AVENUES
$8.50 to $15.50v<
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE j EXPENSE by buying better yj shoes. You will find them far cheaper to wear than shoes j-jj which arc not so high In quality. GU 
Our now models for FALL and jr WINTER are now In, and they ^ are full of snapjust suitable for the colle-ge man. gj
lj TRANSITS AND LEVELS ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instrument:; of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and Sj Cloths.
$ B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
jfj 126 SIXTH STREET
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schonley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
A WELCOME TO ALL
[OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
*THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profit - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT

---------------------------------------------------

Ver tica/Drive lo Double Se er mer I Driven Pulley 16 V ;Snaft Centers 7-9' XE^dfi1 CliCj'
Yfm
:oC-tIVJSrtiAtG  CLEA.V/NG OOM
PST3 Cto-C A?-* I 
1 Vert. Drive to CteanerV 2CM: c,oc a-f:|--J 4-ply Ghde C^^*v--W t'.'tpiy KhngiitP bH J  CtoC ra-.s/ art. Drive to Washer, s\
Cro C 4-1/ LVertical Drive <^/y>{it.-</ir>jtitcto Btnetter; : . .  ' 4 4' Stia ft enotera Driven Pulley H4aS'
SKETCH SHOWINGGOCDYEAf? BELTS
arrangement of drives, 
FORT ATKINSON CANNING CO.JEFrERSON, W!S.
. -*"4pi y K/in grite 
Vertical Drive to Gra* Driven Ptrltey /6 x -4'
THE TATANPAGE FOUR.
alma mater for the start she gave him in life.
In the course of the article, Mr. 
Wadsworth says:
With constantly increasing em
phasis the fact has been borne in upon 
educated men and women that the 
schools and colleges needed their in
dividual attention. We began to rea
lize that our whole educational sys
tem was in danger of deterioration or 
even disaster.
Hundreds of institutions have been 
brought to a realization of the seri
ousness of their financial conditions 
by the rising costs of 1919, with the 
result that campaigns for additional 
endowment have been inaugurated 
with a total amount asked for running 
over $250,000,000. Cities and towns 
have faced the same problem. Demand 
for additional pay by struggling 
teachers have been insistent. Special 
elections have been held; taxes have 
been levied to meet this universal cry 
from a hard-pressed profession.
Together with the growing sense 
of the danger threatening our insti
tutions, there has come a constantly 
growing cry for more education. The 
steel strike, the coal strike, the evi
dent need for better Americanization 
have developed writers and orators 
galore all raising their voices in the 
same cause. More and better educa
tion for the masses; higher and broad
er intellectual development of the 
college students, has been advocated 
in no uncertain terms. No political 
speech is complete without its men
tion of our needs for better Ameri
can izati nowhich means, as a funda
mental, better education. No discus
sion of the industrial problems which 
confront the country fails to bring 
forth the need of a better understand
ing between employer and employee. 
Many methods for bringing this about 
are suggested, nearly every one of 
which involves more education.
And so, side by side have arisen 
these two great changes in public 
sentiment: First, sense of responsi
bility among individuals for the sup
port of the educator and the uphold
ing of the standard of education; sec
ond, the realization of the enormous 
importance of universal and proper 
education in the future development 
of America.
Mr. Wadsworth lays stress upon the 
practical support given by the late 
Henry C. Frick who wrote in his 
will a testimonial as to his opinion of 
the value and importance of our in
stitutions of higher learning. Mr 
Rockefeller, he says, has expressed, 
in no uncertain terms, his feeling as 
to the importance of higher education 
to this country by his gift of $50,000,- 
000 for distribution among colleges' 
of the country.
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
Plaints of a Playful Plebe by permis
sion of the Board of Health.
As swallows homeward wing their way 
In flight so light and airy,
Just so my dreamn in fancy paints 
You, Loo, my little fairy.
Fares please.
Have one yourself.
Youre another.
Last car jUHt left.
Light or dark?
Nothing but the fifteenth row 
Worst class 1 ever had.
The Mellon National Bank 1O 
one of the moot thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or mall, 
with care and competency.In twilight rev'rle by the fire 
Your Image holds full Hway, 
Your form divine, your grace 
charm
Drives other thoughts away.
A local store promises a novel de
parture In trousers. Probably much 
more novel without 'em.
BEANERY BALLADS
In amorous spell 1 am ensnared 
By your hypnotic eyes,
But wife now comes and bids me go, 
To silence baby's cries.
Pittsburgh, Pa.You may slam, you may hammer, 
Tiny dear, if you must,
But the son-ol-a-gun
He still keeps his crust.
(A diagram and chart of this 
will be furnished on request.)
After a hearty 
meal, youll 
avoid that 
stuffy feeling 
if you chew 
a stick of
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
[Evening Clothes and 
Ace88ories For Rent
One noticeable difference between 
this year's prom and last was that 
Ibis ycai1 we had music. Yes, boys, 
It does make a difference.THE WEEK'S SHORT STORY
The great detective was dead, lie 
had been found suffocated in his room 
from the effects of gas. Death by his 
own hand, was the coroners report.
No cause for suicide was known. 
The only clue was a note from the 
president, found in the hand of the 
dead man, ordering him to dope out 
the marking system at Carnegie 
"Tech.
Campus chatterYes, sir; she 
knocked me flatter than a stale beer.
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
4(H) Pillsljurjili Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell ICIRDRRY 121)4 Grant
FAMOUS SAYING8
WRIGLEYS
ThenWine, women and song. 
NowWood alcohol, flowers and 
song.Other benefits: to teeth, 
breath, appetite, nerves. 
Thats a good deal to 
get for 5 cents!
FOR SALE1 white tie, 1 wing col
lar, 1 pr. suspenders. Inquire of any 
upper classman.
FAMOUS MOTTOESMARK
Mr. Geckler"They shall not pass.Sealed TightKept RightOUTDOOR SPORTS
Ice, ice, snow and more ice;
A footing that brought us near Para
dise
Every day at least once or twice
When we slipped or fell on that devil
ish devise
They call ice.
And a fellow must learn to slip and 
slide,
To sustain himself In a giddy glide.
I
F you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke 
a W D C Pipe full of your favorite tobacco. Then you'll 
know what a real French briar ih, and what the Demuth 
seasoning will do to make it break in sweet and mellow. 
Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then 
pick yours.-VffiSirrrrri
Now its slush. Mud, water and slush, 
In one grand, glorious, oozing mush, 
One glamorous, glimmering, glomer
ate gush,
In more slush.
And now the fellow who isnt a duck 
Is at least considerable out. of luck.The Flavor Lasts
Wm. DEMUTH 8< CO.. NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
STUDENTS WELCOME 
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
THE ETERNAL TRIANGLE
A follow stole my girl from mo 
And I Cant say I blame him. 
l<or Ill tell the world that cap-a-pie, 
That, girl o mine could maim em, 
Another guy, lie stole my jack 
Along about vacation,
And 1 felt for the poor demonaic 
Broke and in desperation.
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, ProprietorBut now somebody steals my hat.
Its funny how you feel 
About a little tiling like that 
That Isn't hard to steal.
Now girls will cause your wish to drib, 
The two will go together.
Hut the guy who stole my only lid 
Must have a heart of leather.
HIRE YOUR FULL DRESS SUIT "LESS THAN 
DOWN PRICES AT
HEIMERTS 
OAKLANDS MEN'S WEAR SHOP 
IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND. 
EVERYTHING COMPLETE IN MENS WEAR LINE 
AT  PRICES  LOW
FUNDS SOUGH BYAMERICAN COLLEGESTOTAL $250,000,000
New York, Feb. 17.Tluvt follow
ing the example set by Harvard, more 
than one quarter of a billion dollars 
is now being sought for additional 
endownment by hundreds of institu
tions of higher learning in this coun
try is pointed out by Eliot Wads
worth, chairman of the Harvard En
dowment Fund, in an article which he 
has written for the Mailch issue of the 
Harvard Graduates' Magazine. The 
Harvard Fund of $15,250,000 is fast 
approaching the $12,000,000 figure.
Mr. Wadsworth has gone to Europe 
to attend the first congress of the 
League of Red Cross Societies in 
Geneva as one of five American dele
gates. He was former vice-chairman 
of the American Red Cross and be
cause of his work in that organization 
he recently received the Distinguished 
Service Medal awarded by the President.
The fact that individuals had any 
definite responsibility to the mainten
ance of our educational machinery 
was hardly recognized, says Mr. 
Wadsworth. Citizens voted once a 
year for members of the School 
Board. College Alumni voted at Com
mencement for Alumni Directors and 
members of the Governing Board. 
This, to a large extent, was the mea
sure of our interest and thought.
Looking back over the last six 
months since the Harvard Fund was 
started, Mr. Wadsworth says:
It, may be safely said that Harvard 
has played a very important part in 
leading this movement. While mak
ing the first plans for the campaign it 
was determined that the publicity for 
the Harvard Endowment Fund should 
have two objects: First, to show the 
need of Harvard; socond, and far 
more important, to show the serious 
situation which confronted all educa
tional work.
These objects have since been 
achieved, for the country has been 
aroused to the need of supporting 
higher education. There is a story, 
too, that is told in this connection.  
well known banker has asserted that 
the Harvard Endowment Fund caused 
him to realize what he owned his own
ELDORADO
7/re 7/taster dnmi/igpencil
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixons 
Eldorado is a friend to be 
proud of.
v JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO. A 
\ Pcncil Dept. Jersey City, N. J. M \\ Canmlinn JJItrrihulon M
V\ A. K. Muonmimll * Co., l.tit. M /
An Idea, Our Good Nameand the G. T. M
So they specified 100% Goodyear equipment 
transmission belts, conveyor belts, steam 
hose and water hose. Types, widths and plies 
conform to the G. T. M.s recommendations 
Goodyear Glides for the light drives, whose 
small pulleys run at high speed; Goodyear 
Klingtite for general transmission duty; and 
Goodyear Klingtite on the mule, where 
severe belt punishment aptly names the drive. 
Where raw materials in transit deposit their 
belt-eating acids, Goodyear Conveyors offer 
qualities especially resistant to acid.
The problem of keeping abreast of the rapid 
advances that characterize both shop practice 
and factory equipment in these days of high 
pressure business and quality-quantity pro
duction is something that over-reaches the 
limits of one mans or one plants experience. 
Consequently, the progressive factory manager, 
the engineer, and the superintendent make 
constant study of the latest in ideas and facil
ities their chief concern.
The idea underlying the plan of the G.T. M. 
Goodyear Technical Manis to provide 
the right type of belt for every specific industrial 
use. It removes the important elements of 
power transmission and material conveying 
from the field of hit-and-miss operation, and 
puts them on a scientific basis.
The force of this idea appealed to the Fort 
Atkinson Canning Company when they were 
thinking about the belt equipment for the new 
plant at Jefferson, Wis. They had never used 
a Goodyear Belt the belts they had in their 
parent plant were giving generally satisfactory 
service but they knew Goodyears reputation 
for quality, they knew the countrywide approval 
won by Goodyear Belts operating in other 
canneries, and they were impressed by the 
G. 1. M.s analysis of their requirements.
one for every need or preference 
BATTERY
'Exide'
SERVICE
The unfailing performance of these Goodyear 
Belts substantiates the plant analj'sis method 
of applying belts to the specific service. Their 
freedom from belt troublesno slipping, no 
stretchingto an appreciable amount, which 
usually causes an interruption in production 
in order to cut out" and take up the slack 
is their own best service assurance.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
A special study of belt function in various in
dustries is set forth in the Goodyear Mechanical 
Goods Encyclopedia. Students and teachers of 
engineering will be furnished a copy on request 
by letter to the Mechanical Goods Department 
of the GoodvearTire & Rubber Co.. Akron. O,
The Joy of Winter Swimming,
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Moat people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. Theres a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotorium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
