Tech Notes 
Death Of 
Hans Vetter
Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy offers its sympathy to 
Maria Vetter on the death of her 
husband, Hans A. Vetter, who 
died suddenly on Wednesday, May 
^8, 1963, at his home at 933 St. 
James Street.
Professor Vetter had been 
member of the Carnegie Tech fac
ulty since 1947. His wife,
Malki, is an associate 
of music here at Tech. Both 
planned to retire in June.
Professor Vetter was born in 
^Vienna, Austria and received 
master of architecture degree 
from the Academy of Applied 
Arts in Vienna. For 20 
prior to World War II, the 
fessor was engaged in architect 
tural studies and private practice, 
designing many buildings in Eu
rope and Asia Minor. In 1925, he 
won a bronze medal at the Inter
national Exhibition in Paris.
He joined the faculty of the 
Academy of Applied Arts in 
Vienna in 1933. He also edited a 
magazine of arts, Profil. Through
out World War II he was at Ox
ford and London in England on 
scholarship.
During the summer of 1953, in 
cooperation with the Austria 
Ministry of Education, Professor 
Veter established a summer school
 for architecture students at Salz
burg, Austria. In 1957, he and 
Mrs. S. Eugen Bramer joined in 
forming a consulting firm that 
specialized in home planning and 
interior decorating an design.
Mrs. Vetter has requested that 
memorial contributions be in the 
form of donations to the depart
ment of architecture at Carnegie 
Tech.
Thistle Names 
New Editors 
For 1963-64
% Jon Parker, outgoing Thistle 
editor, has announced the ap
pointment of the staff for the 
1963-64 school year. The new 
staff members are:
Editor, Tod Johnson; Layout, 
Judy Siegle; Photography, Jim 
Pawley ;Copy, Sharon Brady; Art, 
Dick Russell; Business Manager, 
Annon Carten; Advertising, Tom 
Glassberg; Sales, Judy Littman; 
^publicity, A1 Slate; Comptroller, 
A1 Slate; Features Editor, Bob 
James, Senior Editor, Pete Sahls; Organizations, Tom Miller; 
Sports, Hank Werronen; Secre
tary, Gladys Stalinsky; and Ad
vertisers, Lee Slater.
The positions of Associate 
Editor, Fraternity Editor and Sor
ority Editor are still open. Inter
ested persons should contact Jon l^arker.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55  NUMBER 28 WEDNESDAY, MAY 22, 1963___________Alums Return For Homecoming Day
Singers Enjoy Impromptu Music
Celidh members listen thoughtfully to a folk ballad, 
as they gather on Skibo steps.
Models of da Vincis Inventions 
Displayed In Wlierrett Room
An exhibit of models of inventions by Leonardo da 
Vinci will be on display in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, on 
Tuesday, May 21, through Sunday, June 2. The models are 
from the Department of Arts and Sciences, International 
Business Machines Corporation, and were constructed from 
Leonardos scientific drawings by Dr. Roberto Guatelli af
ter years of study and research. ?
Among the Leonardo inventions
to be represented in the exhibit 
will be a steam gun, parachute, 
excavating machine, printing 
press, air-conditioning unit, ornithopter or flying machine, heli
copter, machine-gun, and a 
double-hulled ship.
Dr. Guatelli originally super
vised the construction of these 
models for the 1938 exhibition of 
Leonardos work in Milan, Italy.
During the war, in Tokyo, they 
were completely destroyed by 
bombs and Dr. Guatelli, who had 
accompanied the exhibit to Japan, 
was confined in a concentration 
camp. When he returned to the 
United States he began work on 
another set of models, the ones 
which IBM acquired in 1951.
The Wherrett Room will be 
open Monday through Saturday 
from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and 
on Sunday from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. Vezzani, and Ellie Wiseman.
Tech Awards 
Activities Keys 
To Students
Those students who have made 
outstanding contributions to ex
tra-curricular activities at Tech 
have been honored by the presen
tation of Activities Keys. Those 
who received the awards are: 
Marty Ackermann, Tom Ference, 
Henry Henderson, Elaine Kinkel, 
Al Kullen, Tom Miller, Howard 
Pifer, Tom Pike, Bob Stocking, 
A. Wayne Tumarelli, Joe Thomas, 
Ed Devecka, Rich Ferguson, Bob 
Hawkins, John Jackson, Lawrence 
Lang, Gerald McIntyre, Marjie 
Park, Jon Parker, Ed Peay, Robert 
Samios, Gladys Stalinski, Bar
bara Stoller, Jack Turk, Elaine
Homecoming weekend this year shows promises of be
ing the most enjoyable ever on the Tech campus. Many 
alumni (approximately 700) will return to their alma ma
ter during the first weekend in June to revive many old 
memories. The class reunions they will have will reacquaint 
old friends and make new ones. Dances and parties have
*also been planned for the enjoy 
ment of the alumni.Mens Dorms 
Get Repairs 
This Summer
Plans are being made to refurniture in some of the 
mens dormitories. It is uncer
tain at this moment just how 
many dorms will get new fur
niture by next fall. Welch Hall, 
however, will most likely be re
furnished. McGill Hall is also a 
good prospect. Further, it is pos
sible that those rooms in Boss 
Hall with old furniture will be 
refurnished.
Furniture replacement will in
clude all pieces in most rooms. 
Thus, new beds, springs, mat
tresses, desks, chairs, dressers, 
and book shelves will be involved.
Replacement of furniture and 
general refurnishing of the mens 
dormitories is In accordance with 
information and plans given to 
mens dormitory residents a year 
ago when room rental increases 
were announced.
However, the weekend will not 
all be social gaiety. The alumni 
may also participate in the Car
negie Conference program, one of 
the most praised series of lectures 
in the Pittsburgh area, though 
only in its third year of existence. 
The purpose of the program is to 
broaden the alumni's interests and 
knowledge in fields outside their 
specialties. Twenty-five top mem
bers of the Carnegie Tech faculty 
will speak on topics ranging from 
the Corporate Ugly American to 
Bioengineering to The Changing 
Role of American Womanhood.' 
These educators will primarily 
limit their topics to basic and 
non-technical subjects to insure 
the understanding of everyone. 
This stimulating and enlightening 
experience, combined with the 
festivities of the weekend, will 
make it easy for everyone to njoy themselves.
Tom Miller Heads 
Congress Exec. Council
Tom Miller, recently elected 
president of Mens Dorm Council, 
was chosen president of Execu
tive Council by acclamation at 
their May 16th meeting. Henry 
Henderson, out-going President of 
Executive Council, turned the 
gavel over to Miller, and then 
made a speech on the future of 
the Council.
The new president is a junior in 
the department of Industrial Man
agement, out-going President of 
Executive Council, turned the 
gavel over to Miller, and then 
made a speech on the future of 
the Council.
Tom feels that Exec. Council 
can and should have a more in
fluential position on the campus. 
Miller proposes to improve cam
pus participation in student ac
tivities and increase the general 
spirit of Techites through his new 
position on the Exec. Council.
He presently is a member of 
Sigma Nu, president of the Debate 
Society, Chairman of the General 
Campus Committee of Student 
Congress, 1963 Thistle Sales Man
ager, and a member of PiDE.
Other recently elected mem
bers of Executive Council are:
Tom Miller 
receives congratulations.
Carol Houtz  Womens Dorm 
Council, Tom Pyke  Student 
Congress, Dave Vandelinde . 
CFP, Judy Phyllis  Pan-Helle
nic, Pete Hotz  Religious Or
ganizations, Rich Ferguson . 
Scholastic Honoraries, Arleen 
Shaheen  Activities Honoraries, 
Bob Hawkins  General Activi
ties, Ev Janssen  PiDE.

---------------------------------------------------

Pat   CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 1963
Congress Enthusiasm Wanes 
Even Before New Term Begins
May 15, 1963: The first item of business was the election 
of the new Vice-Chairman; the candidates were Lee Weller 
and Ellie Weisman. The same procedure was followed as 
in the election of chairman: when allotted time to speak 
about her platform, Lee proposed more support for stu
dent activities, strengthening of*
Congress, and continued revisation 
of Student Handbook with regard 
to specific rules. Ellie empha
sized the representatives job in 
wielding the power of Congress, 
and predicted a decisive year for 
Student Government. Neither cit
ed any specific experience that 
would aid the fulfillment of their 
duties until the questioning per
iod. Both spoke with conviction, 
poise and confidence. Miss Weller 
was elected the new Vice-Chair
man.
Did I say that the same pro
cedure was followed as in the 
election of the chairman? I omitment for campus-wide election of 
Congress Chairman and ViceChairman. According to the for
mer chairman, there is no re
cognized head of the student body, 
and students would be more inter
ested in and aware of Congress if 
they had the power to elect its 
chairman. Mi r o n Straf spoke 
against total enfranchisement. He 
cited colleges where all-campus 
elections bring out only 10% of 
the student body to vote. He 
warned against the dangers of or
ganization and/or fraternity dom
inated politics under this system, 
and the danger that the election
ted one important point which Would become another popularity 
may seem insignificant until concontest. Bob Stocking pointed out 
sidered in all its aspects. The that a smaller electorate may un
necessary plurality to elect the 
chairman was 50 votes; one week 
later, the plurality to elect vicechairman was 40 votes. This 
means, since the plurality is a 
majority plus one, that there were 
almost 20 fewer members present 
at this election. This is indeed a 
poignant commentary upon the 
spirit of the new Congress; mem
bers last week, delighted with the 
new participation and serious in
terest manifested in the discussion 
from the floor and the sense of 
involvement, were disappointed 
first by the large number of ab
sences and by lack of concern; 
neither of the candidates was 
questioned for even half of the al
lotted seven-minute time period, 
and a ballot marked Lee Weisman was turned in. Whether this 
was a flippantly sarcastic com
ment upon the election or the re
sult of ignorance (each young 
lady was named at least 5 times, 
though), it is pitiable. This is not 
the fault of the new chairman, 
but of the new congress  of the 
20 members absent, 13 were from 
the new congress.
The chairman passed onto con
sideration of the amendments 
which simply stated that neither 
chairman of Congress, Finance 
Committee nor Treasurer of Con
gress may be affiliated. The 
original purpose behind these 
amendments, according to A1 
Kullen, was to prohibit a mem
ber of PiDE or any publications 
finance committees from becoming 
Treasurer of Congress or Chair
man of Congress Finance Commit
tee, but what they really did was | 
to prohibit anyone who wrote for 
r worked on any publication 
from two important offices, for 
which competent people are vital
ly necessary. The amendments 
were defeated as the last act of 
the 1962-63 congress. Mark Appelbaums State of Congress ad
dress, in view of the lateness of 
the hour, was not given. It will 
be published in the Tartan. The 
new congress chairman and vicechairman were sworn in. The new 
chair recognized Mark Appelbaum, who introduced an amendderstand the issues at hand better, 
and is more responsible because 
it is more directly affected by 
the chairman. As for no recogniz
ed Student Body Head, the chair
manship does, at least unofficially, 
seem to convey this meaning. The 
amendment will be considered 
again at the first meeting in the 
fall term, Sept. 25.
The chairman announced com
mittee heads for the following
year: Finance  Butch Davis, 
Campus Chest  Carol Schell, 
Assembly  Henry Galliot, Gen
eral Campus  Jack Turk, Pub
licity  Gail Morgan, Constitution 
 Eric Erenvich, Elections  
Mike Allen.
Activities Chairman is still to 
be appointed. Tom Pyke also an
nounced that applications for the 
following positions will be ac
cepted until tomorrow at 4:30 
P.M.: Chairman of Leadership
Committee, Treasurer of Student 
Government, Justice of Student 
Court (4 appointed: not a member 
of Congress)
Henry Henderson, former Pres
ident of Executive Council, pre
sented his State of Government 
Address. He condemned both the 
Congress and the Campus activi
ties, as stagnant and uninterested 
in accomplishing anything beyond 
the mundane everyday activities 
of existence. He accused the honoraries of talking big but accom
plishing little to secure academic 
improvements. Quoting President 
Warner, he concluded his address 
with It can be done.
The words, It can be done are 
far from It will be done. Con
gress and activities have before 
them an expanding year; Techs 
future is bright. The Student 
body, however, is the deciding 
factor. This can be another year 
of apathy, but it does not have 
to be. It depends upon everyone 
to instill the enthusiasm that will 
effectively make Congress and 
activities powerful factors for 
good in the college community.
M.H.
COLLEGE MEN
Vacation Jobs
Limited number of applications being accepted 
now for promotional work with internationally 
known company. Have branches in all principle 
cities. Last year those accepted averaged over 
$130 weekly.
15=$1000wwwwwaan 5
SCHOLARSHIPS
Must be neat and businesslike in appearance. 
Work is local. Car is furnished. For appointment 
phone Mr. Price at281-8356
Large Salary - $90 per week
~>r
* BULLETIN M BOARD
Official Calendar
The Official Calendar for 1963- 
64 is now available in the Book 
Store. This calendar covers the 
period from July 1, 1963, to Sep
tember 30, 1964.
Slanfon Heights Duplex
1st floor partly furnished includes 
electric range, refrigerator, dinet set
table and 4 chairs, carpeting, and 
drapes. Has patio and garage. $115 
per month.
361-1869
Boys night out?  Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack . . . or Dinner
...at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
from our University Shop 
COOL, COLORFUL SPORTWEAR 
exclusively styled in sizes 35 to 42
(shown) Odd Jacket of Dacron polyester 
and cotton in muted -plaids, $35
Odd Jackets in Dacron and flaxf $3 7.50 j 
in oxford weave Arnel triacetate and 
cottony $30; in striped cotton seersucker, $25; 
in lightweight Dacron and worstedy $50; 
in hand-woven cotton India Madras plaids y $37.50
Odd Trousers in Dacron and worsted 
tropical, $20; in Dacron and cotton 
f of liny $12.50; in khaki or white chino, $ 10
Bermuda Length Shorts in cotton India 
Madras -plaids} $12.50; in Dacron 
and cotton poplint $11.50
ISTABUSHEO1818
l^Utvs furnishings, $f ate wantol
600 SMITHFIELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA. 
NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICAGO  LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
*
wn rniKAi Mtftv mTM / stttt CMMfotrr ttttf lorprayf
E I want to bea loanW
Its easy to borrowatUnionNationalBank.lt usually takes us only 24 hours or less to process National Bank loan will make It possible. Maybe this is the year you should put down
and approve your loan. Come in today, and pick up your money tomorrow. Maybe this that concrete driveway, or build your gameroom, or buy that boat. Do it. Come in and see us.
is the year you should take that special vacation that never seemed possible. A Union THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
^CA RNNCEGI NSTUOF ^HLYTL lO aSSn fOULLO ^Ao eigh NSUtLs ^HLYTLD RluplYn

---------------------------------------------------

*
CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 1963  Pagre 3
Campus Clubs Elect
New Members & Officers
Home Ec ClubrThe CIT Chapter of the Amer
ican Home Economics Association 
has elected the following officers 
for the coming year: Chairman  
Janice Priest, Vice-chairman  
Carol Young, Secretary  Ann 
Carten, Treasurer  Susan Sei
bert. They will be installed on 
Wednesday afternoon at the an
nual Blossom Tea held in the 
senior Home Economics majors 
whonor.
At the recent Pennsylvania 
H o m e Economics Association 
meeting, the Chapter was one of 
four Pennsylvania College Chap
ters awarded a Standards of Ex
cellence Certificate for completing 
the program criteria established 
by the State and National Asso
ciations. This past years officers 
were Chairman  Nancy Broslet, 
Vice-chairman  Janice Priest, 
^Secretary  Carol' Houtz, Trea
surer  Marjorie Mathie; Faculty 
Advisor  Dorothy Devenney, 
Assistant  Elizabeth Ellet,
A PhiO
Alpha Phi Omega, national 
service fraternity has selected its 
new officers for the fall semester. 
They are:
 President, Matthew Jacobs; 
First Vice President, David Best; 
Second Vice President, Allan Pol
lock; Third Vice President, Hay
den Lipp; Recording Secretary, 
Guy Bradley; Corresponding Sec
retary, Duane Smith; Alumni 
Secretary, Fred Welter; Treasur
er, Thomas Kenat, and Historian, 
Paul Dobosh.
Scimitars
The recently initiated 1963-64 
Scimitars met on May 15th and 
elected their officers for the com
ing year. The Scimitars also voted 
to combine the positions of sec
retary and treasurer into one 
office.
The new officers of the Sci
mitars are: President  Chris 
Macosko, Vice President - Tom 
Glassberg, Secretary-Treasurer  
%Tod Johnson.
Morewood Awards 
Two Scholarships
Diana Dayton and Arlene Shaheen, were named the recipients 
of the Womens Dorm Council 
Scholarships for 1963-64. The 150- 
dollar scholarships are given on 
.the basis of an outstanding scho
lastic record, dormitory citizen
ship, and financial need. In ad
dition to maintaining an outstand
ing academic record and partici
pating in many carhpus activities, 
both women have contributed to 
dormitory government. Diana was 
president of her tower for the 
1961-62 term, and Arlene was a 
floor counselor for 2 years.
Fully Furnished
Doherty Hall Apartment Avail
able for the summer. 
School rule - young married 
couple only.
Phone 683-5280
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING  HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
ST^erm Papers, Applications, etc. Spel
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC  The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
Nice 4-room bath furnished apt. for rent 
for summer up to 4 male students. Nice 
neighborhood, plenty parking. Light and 
airy trunk room. Call after 2:00 JA. 1- 
2497.
Oakland, furnished rooms, recently re
modeled, kitchen facilities, quiet pleas
ant neighborhood. No lease, free park
ing, near transportation, shopping. 
Twelve minutes - downtown, 683-1143.
Mortar Board
Eta chapter of Mortar Board 
announces its members and offi
cers for the 1963-1964 school year. 
The new president is Elizabeth 
Kim; vice-president is Peggy 
Riva; secretary is Cathy Gray; 
and treasurer is Mary Breitenstein. Eleven other junior women 
have also been called to member
ship. They are: Bonnie Kliot,
Phyllis Cohen, Arlene Shaheen, 
Mary Ann Gruen, Marilyn Taft, 
Susan Broadhead, Marney Gilboy, 
Audrey Owen, Leslie McKinley, 
Mindy Davis, and Judy Zabetakis. 
Mortar Board, the senior womens 
honorary, bases its selection on 
scholarship, leadership, and gen
eral contributions to the campus.
Sigma Kappa 
Visits Aged
Last week, members of Sigma 
Kappa Sorority visited the Lemington Home for the Aged. In 
honor of Mothers Day, the girls 
planned a program of entertain
ment for the women, highlighted 
by an old-fashioned hymn-sing
ing session. The visit was planned 
as part of the Sigma Kappas 
gerentology project initiated to 
give the girls an opportunity for 
service to the community.
Tech Offers 
High Schools 
Opportunity
High school students from the 
Allegheny County area can obtain 
an introduction to modern electri
cal engineering or physics at Car
negie Institute of Technology 
starting this, fall.
Applications are now being ac
cepted by the College of Engi
neering and Science for positions 
in a Saturday program of ad
vanced courses and laboratory 
work beginning in September. 
Some financial aid is available for 
those students accepted.
The students will be on the 
Carnegie Tech campus from 8:30 
a.m. to 4:20 p.m. each Saturday 
during the acadfemic year and will 
devote almost two hours of that 
time to study in Carnegie Techs 
famed digital computer center. 
The remainder of the program in
cludes lectures, discussions, class
room work, and research. Senior 
staff members will be assigned to 
instruction and guidance in both 
the engineering and science pro
grams.
The program is aimed at sup
plementing rather than supplant
ing the normal high school in
structional activity and hopefully 
at clarifying the activities and 
areas involved in engineering and 
science to combat the recent de
crease in the production of en
gineering graduates throughout 
the United States.
Miscellaneous Activities Elect 
Boh Hawkins To Exec Council
The presidents of Miscellane
ous Activities recently elected 
Bob Hawkins to represent them 
on Executive Council. Bob, a jun
ior, is married and lives in 
Doherty Graduate House. He has 
been Rush chairman, Social chair
man, Student Congress represen
tative, and Council of Fraternity 
Presidents representative for 
Theta Xi. He is past president, 
vice-president, and secretary of 
Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O). He 
is presently vice-president and a 
varsity debater for the Tartan 
Debate Union. He has been a 
member of WRCTs general staff, 
the National Association for Com
puting Machinery, Canterbury 
Club, and the Industrial Manage
ment Club. Last year, he was a 
member of the freshman camp 
staff and the freshman Orienta
tion Week Committee of Student 
Congress, where he was chairman 
of the Activities Fair. He is the 
newly elected Secretary of the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents.
Bob has been recognized for 
participation in activities by 
membership in Delta Skull (the 
junior mens activities honorary) 
and by being awarded a Student 
Congress Activities Key.
His ideas for helping activities 
include 1) notifying all heads of 
activities that he is available to 
i aid them 2) working closely with 
the head of the Congress Activi
ties Committee 3) presenting orThis Week In Pitt burgh
Continuing Events
Gateway - The Ugly American' Marlon Brando
Stanley - David and Lisa
Warner - How the West Was Won
Fulton - Lawrence of Arabia
Shadyside - Freud Montgomery Clift
Squirrel Hill - Long Days Journey into Night Ralph
Richardson, Katheryn Hepburn, Jason Robards, Jr.
Playhouse - Come Blow Your Horn Craft Ave. Theater 
Make A Note of It Hamlet St. Theater 
The Caretaker Theater Upstairs
Fine Arts Theater - Two one act plays and an opera Red 
Peppers - Noel Coward, A Glimpse of Reality - George 
Bernard Shaw, Amelia Goes to the Ball - Gian-Carlo 
Menotlis.
BUY A THISTLE
Engineering Trainees
EARN UP TO *6500
Night school students with over two years and 
grade average of at least 2.5.
ENGINEERING. MATH, 
AND PHYSICS MAJORS
Employment as laboratory assistants in an Aeroresearch program.
(ALL-CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh 22
Bob Hawkins
ganizations problems to Execu
tive Council 4) helping organiza
tions present their needs for fi
nancial help to Student Govern
ment 5) make more organization 
programs into all-school events 
and 6) submit a series of articles 
to the Tartan spotlighting various 
activities and their events.
the fourth dimension: TIME
... still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, 
an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation and surprise.
919 A.D. TREE TIME! Growth rings of trees cannot only be counted, but 
"read." From them, weather patterns can be traced. Back-checking on 
weather data permits scientists to learn the actual birth date of beams 
and posts found in archeological ruins. One charred pine log has been 
found in New Mexico that was born" in the year 919.
COMMUNIST CALENDAR...was abig bust in 1930. Russian leaders initiated a five-day week: four days work, one day rest. To keep factories operating daily, rest days 
were staggered. A boy and his girl friend might have different days off and get to spend a day together only a few times a year. The sys
tem was dropped after six months of grumbling.
HAMILTON SPACE CLOCK... is world's first interplanetary timepiece. Located in Philadelphias Franklin Institute, it makes possible integration of Earth and Mars time. This can be tricky, since Mars months have 55-56 days. This amazing clock records the hour, day, month and year on Mars.
You get more than accurate timekeeping when you wear a Hamilton watch. A Hamilton reflects your good taste as no lesser watch can  shows you know quality and value. Outstanding styles for both men and women start as low as 
$35. An excellent graduation gift suggestion!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 1963
gilew rTswoashf
Educate
Do nothing unless it is proof that you 
understand the principle involved.
This is contradicted by high achievement 
on an examination resulting from nothing 
more than mechanical (mathematical) man
ipulation of formulas and numbers. But 
judge not yetwhat more can a momentary 
examination prove? Indeed, what can a fact
or, a Q.P.A., a grade, reveal? That a momen
tary achievement was madeyes, made by 
a diverse collection of means: hook or crook, 
luck, a skill peculiar to the taking of tests, a 
smile, a bowed head, or even as a result of 
understanding and learning.
Delve into a jungle of principles, formu
las, numbers from lecture notes, texts, prob
lem solutions. Sort the components of the 
jungle and rearrange them into a form that 
your mind can digest. Understand the prin
ciple. It takes time; it should. But an educa
tion program neglects time; it demands in
stantaneous comprehension; it assumes that 
all minds are alike, that the principles can 
be digested, as presented, equally by all 
minds. A mistaken correlation of potential 
with process seems to define the program.
You do not understand this education 
program; somehow it does not seem to take 
out time for education. But in your naivete 
you take time to understand why the rela
tionships which you have learned are what 
they are. The program says Do this prob
lem; do that one; you will be graded. But 
you do not yet understand the principle of 
these problemsthe program has not waited 
for you to understand; it wants you to learn. 
Yes, you can work the problems; you were
Readers Write
taught where to use an equation. Your grade 
depends on it. Work the problems. Fill in the 
blanks. Add national income to business in
vestment. a equals .0475; put it in this equa
tion and show that a equals .0475. Remember, 
when (OE over OV)T=0, you have an ideal 
gas.
Do not ask, if you can solve these prob
lems by geometric tricks; if you can memor
ize a conjugation, a formula, a constant, you 
will do well. Your text understands. If you 
can repeat what it says, your name will be 
written on a paper with others. It will be an 
honor. You will leave with a number after 
your name, a magic numbera high factor. 
Your reward will be that when you go forth 
among your fellow man, you will be able to 
repeat what your text and professor said, 
and you will be honored and make money.
If you ask why, though, it will take 
time. And the educational program will not 
wait; it must hasten to educate. You will not 
use the tricks, formulas, lists that you have 
been taught because they dont mean any
thing yet. You want to know why these 
things give the answer they do. You are 
taking time to find out. But too lateyou 
have revealed less than the othersyou 
are given a dishonoring number, which 
means that you can learn no more but that 
low factor. It says that you are not ready to 
be honored, to make money.
True, you are not ready. You spend more 
time, and eventually you understand.
Your reward will be simpleyou will be 
a human being.
Woodrow C. Wells 
Chemistry 65
Student Apathy Still Reigns
Petitioner Wants 
Active Interest
Editor, The Tartan:
An open letter to the students 
of Carnegie Tech:
During the past week, peti
tions have been circulating con
cerning the situation in Birming
ham and Kennedys reaction to
it. I personally have been ap
palled both at the lack of know
ledge about what is happening 
and has happened, and more esspecially, at the lack of concern 
on this campus.
A signer of one of these peti
tions would not even have to 
strongly favor integrationonly 
life and the preservation of the 
dignity and respect that any huQ. c/ijler^Burt
Its rumored that if you wait long enough youre bound 
to run into a Kennedy. Tech did. Engineer, Julian Kennedy 
was the speaker at the Federated Engineers Society. His 
topic of address was Efficiency of Humanity in the Mass. 
Mr. Kennedy however was worried by a very different 
aspect of society than our Mr. Kennedy. He felt that there 
was a lack of efficiency caused by too many people work
ing in single production. One case cited was doctors. Per
haps, he was a Medi-care fan. He further mentioned the 
law courts and transportation systems. All in all it ap
peared to him that there was a move to over-individualism 
and not enough of one toward humanity.
I know you are expectantly waiting the results of the 
track meet I mentioned last week. Allegheny won. What 
is more I even have the score 74 to 57. It was bad time all 
around for athletics for Penn State beat our nine 3 to 1. 
The tennis team dropped two also. A Spring Festival was 
to be held for the first time on the 28th of the month. Every
one was invited to go to the Senior Ball at the Rittenhouse 
on June 16th. If you feel that tuition is too high, a time 
machine would be in order. The tuition for a resident of 
Pittsburgh was $20 and for a non-resident $30. The over
all cost was for a resident $48, all others $58.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
I Shall Return
man being deserves. Why is it 
that Man is so little affected by 
Man?
If some people do not agree 
with Kennedys actions, then 
they should do something about 
it. The passive resistance of the 
demonstrators in Birmingham 
has little resemblance to the 
plain passivity of Carnegie Tech.
I ask only that people care, 
that they react  NOT that they 
agree.
Jean Renaud 
Psychology, 65
Writer Sees Art 
Break Through
To the Editor,
At last some people have woken 
up! I am glad to see the begin
ning of a rebellion in the painting 
department against modern art. 
To me, modern art is an easy way 
out, which does not involve the 
workmanship and the real crafts
manship of a work from the 
Renaissance for example.
I hope that this rebellion, which 
is starting in Pittsburgh, will be
come an earth-shaker and lead 
to a form of art which will please 
man instead of disturbing him by 
being an affront to his intelli
gence.
This new era could lead to a 
new Renaissance, not as a copy 
from the past, but as a form and 
style proper to our time . . . In
stead of making something just 
to look at, and then to throw 
away like so many things in the 
industry of today, lets have some
thing that will LAST ! !
Gacrielle Mend***
Since this is the last Tartan of the present school year, 
it seems altogether fitting and proper that this article 
should sum up the motives for the various topics selected, 
and reflect on both the authors and the readers attitudes.
Throughout the year, articles critical of present in
stitutions have been written. This is not surprising; what 
the average reader usually attacks is the extreme view
points and solutions often advocated. I have been acused of 
actually enjoying being attacked by the majority. This 
is true; the arguments following many articles are a source 
of pleasureI like to argue! Hearing other views interests 
meeven if they are extreme. It seems that many stu
dents (but in this case a minority) do not like to hear 
their particular ideas discussed openly (which means that 
they may not be accepted by everyone.)
Still, the fact that I like to argue is not a good rea
son to advocate any subject. I strongly believe that the 
ideas presented in this column have a greater basis in 
truth and make more sense than any others I have heard.
(on the same subjects) This column gives me an oppor
tunity to present my views. (Especially my attitude toward 
individual rights)
Unfortunately, much of the discussion of these col
umns has centered on the topic of how extreme the posi
tion held israther than on the merits of the article. Many 
persons think that an idea which does not have popular* 
support is wrong. These persons refute arguments by 
saying . . . but no one agrees with you. or Shame on 
you without bothering to either think about the points 
for the other side or to learn about the subject discussed.
However, such individual attitudes are held by a small 
(although vocal) minority. The (many) disagreements with 
my views are usually well thought out and intelligent (in 
my opinion). Most persons have show themselves to be in
terested in hearing all sides to questionsand are willing 
to think about new sides and questions. It is to these per
sons (even if they consistently disagree) that this column 
has been' and will continue to be, directed. I am happy to 
admit that there are many more such persons on this cam
pus than originally expected. The interest expressed in 
these articles has surprised the author. It is hoped that 
such interest will continue to be shownand perhaps a few 
individuals will begin to agree with the positions taken.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU. 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-In-Chief ...........................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ...................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor ....................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ...............................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor .................................Alma Rock
Features Editor .................. .................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor .............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ..................................John Norris
Sports Editor .......................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ....................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor .......................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ......... .....................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva, Margie Paik, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin 
Ackerman. Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke.
News Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack, Colin Jones, Marty 
Moore, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky, Jay Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Feature Staff: Marion Mulligan, Jennifer Low, Marty Sauer, Martha Hodgson, 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sue Crytzer, 
Bob Godt.
Sports Staff: Scott McCormick. Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Ted Engelmann.
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Sue 
Stitt, A1 Pollock, Fritz Klinke, Holy Lawrance.
Copy Staff: Helen Beattj, Barbara Brown, Nancy Green. Mike Greenawalt,
Jane Keeler, Verna Ream, Mary Lou Recco, Ginny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd.
Photo: Aron Collins, Bill Jackson, Russ Stinebaugh.
Secretarial Str.ff: Carole Breuer, Ann Carten, Nancy Beth Jacobs, Leslie McKinley, 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinogr*d, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, 
Jane Samuels.
Circulation Staff  George Kali, Tom Glassberg, Tom Chamberlin, J. E. Miller.

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 1963  Page S
Conservative Vistas
By Robert E. Godtw
Lower Rungs
1
It is spring, that time of year when the Captains of 
Industry send their messboys recruiting at colleges all 
over the country. You, being a wide-awake, heads-up, redblooded, materialistic American youth, want a summer job; 
so you arrange an interview with the Pea Ridge Power 
and Light Company in your hometown. On the day of the 
interview, to make a good impression, you put on a clean 
shirt, bland ties, and your suit which, without your knowl
edge, went out of style last year. Dung beetles watch wist
fully as you walk hesitantly across the campus for your 
two oclock interview.
At 2:15 you are called into the interviewing room to see 
a pleasant looking fellow with a tie like a gravy streak 
down his shirt-front, a suit more out of style than your own, 
and a smile which went out with FDR. You shake hands 
wetly. After you beat the weather about the head and 
shoulders he hands you three pamphlets with color pic
tures of buildings on the covers. He squares his shoulders 
and begins to tell you facts and figures about the com
panys service record and payroll figure; you open the top 
booklet and read along with him. Sensing your distrac
tion, he asks you of your interests. Just a summer job, 
you reply. Well, he says, no better place than PRPL 
(pronounced purple) and he opens a map of the plant 
location. You note with relief that it hasnt moved since 
you were home for Easter.
Getting more toward the practical side, he begins, 
and proceeds to describe company insurance and pension 
plans. Plenty of security at PRPL. You squirm at his 
Freudian implications. He reaches for his brief case and 
gets out another well-worn booklet. We reward long years 
of faithful service at PRPL and he points out each re
ward in the catalog. Beautifully designed tie bars with 
the company crest and precious stone chips swim before your 
awe struck eyes. Garnet for 10 years, onyx for 20 years, em
erald for 30, ruby for 40 and a diamond for each 10 years 
beyond this. Now that youve got the code you glance at 
his graby-stain tie to see that hes worked up to onyx.
Plenty of new and exciting things afoot at PRPL, he 
says, got to keep up the pace since were a Public Monopoly. 
Keeping service up and costs down is our motto. Youll get 
lots of management experience at PRPL; youre completely 
responsible for your desk and chair and may be able to 
drive a company car.
Thats about all (glance at watch) any questions? 
You shake your head and his hand and he says that well 
keep in touch. As you leave he yells, Next!
In three days you get a letter of acceptance and the 
beetles laugh.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO udm:mIg rMEr.: yd.yr.c
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
University Typing Service
THEMES
WEEKDAYS 
9-5 7-9
ESSAYS TERM PAPERS
DISSERTATIONS
SATURDAYS 
9-12421-9552
SUMMER JOB 
OPPORTUNITY
Men Earn $1000 This Summer
You can earn $100 a week and up on a full time sales 
job calling on old customers or $50 a week part time 
evenings. Special Products Division of Readers Digest 
working with RCA has developed a complete new con
cept in stereo phonic music consisting of a magnificent 
library and stereo. This is merchandized on an appoint
ment basis in New England, Washington, D.C. area, all 
of New York state, exclusive of the metropolitan area, 
Cleveland, central Michigan, Chicago area, and Los 
Angeles area, this summer. If interested write, wire, or 
call, Robert Taitt, 989 James Street, Syracuse New York, 
phone 427-6355.
Count-Up! Techite Views 
Campus Attitude To Missile Trip
6-5-4-3-2-l-ignition-lift off. With a shattering thunder, 
the slim, gleaming missle with its Mercury capsule atop, 
ripped off its launch pad at the Cape and arched Major L. 
Gordon Cooper, United States astronaut, through last Wed
nesdays early morning sunbeams into orbit around this 
green globe. The next evening, more than 34 hours, 22 orbits 
later, he became an earthman again after a flight which was 
called more perfect than perfect. ?
Following Ccoper up through 
the facilities of the national
broadcasting networks, millions of 
Americans sat silently tensed be
fore their TVs and waited, listen
ed and hoped. At Canaveral, sci
entists and technicians monitored 
the satellite as Cooper reported on 
one framis after another. In time 
seqeunce the nation reacted thusly: anticipation (were going to 
put a man into orbit)  tension 
(x minus 10 minutes)  prayers 
(pagan and the other kind)  joy 
(everything A-OK)  waiting 
(all systems GO)  more waiting 
(get that data down)  more ten
sion (time to come back)  much 
more tension (automatic steering 
B-AD) more prayers (mostly the 
other kind) (safe splash-down!) 
pride (hes an American). These 
were the reflections of the nation 
but what about Tech, Carnegie 
Tech, that fabled institution of 
higher learning and art in legend 
and lore.
Let us move north from the 
plush green of the Florida shore 
across the dying Appalachian 
range to the rolling hills of Penn
sylvania, where the Allegheny
and the Monongahela meet to 
form the Ohio and in the air ev
erywhere is dirt. But I digress. 
Perched upon a particularly unbeautiful crag in Oakland is, as 
we would all rather forget, Car
negie Institute of Technology. 
That early Wednesday morn it 
stood robed in a spangled wilder
ness of dew covered ivy (just 
like in THE song). What were 
the reactions of its student body?
For some it was not any differ
ent than for those who rode 
with Cooper every mile of the 
way. One Techman, exonerating 
his alarm clock, switched on his 
radio, x minue 30 seconds, came 
the voice from the tip of Florida. 
Clad in only a sock (sufficient for 
frat costume parties, Drama De
partment productions, library de
dications and the like, but not for 
TV viewing) he scrambled into 
trousers and made it to Donners 
lounge to witness three seconds 
which might have been the last 
three on this earth for Gordon 
Cooper. Freshmen got the news in 
lecture; others carried pocket 
radios around with them all day 
to hear the progress of the flight.
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
Profil .iTlhshts. eN amwwEdF1963 m-4
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Carlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
xFSYLI hPg688h3
In a lab, would-be physicists 
jokingly blamed the orbiting cap
sule for an unexplained jump in 
the background radioactivity. 
That night those turfing (join) 
paused to watch the Major streak 
across the heavens. But these 
were only some.
Other Techmen and Techwomen neither knew nor cared. The 
events of the flight went on un
noticed, untalked about  as if 
nothing at all was going on out
side of the common and ordinary. 
The largest, most successful var
sity team of all on campus resist
ed mightily in becoming interest
ed or enthusiastic (whatever that 
means) behind its wall of apathy. 
All Wednesday and Thursday, the 
quick and the wet maneuvered 
unconcerned among the sprinklers 
on the malls. A major event in 
the history of the United States 
took the better part of two days 
and went ignored by many. Even 
before the event was concluded, 
the sun sank behind Moorewood 
Thursday evening and on the cut 
the little green man balled the 
flag up under his arm and the 
apathy varsity bad already added 
another victory to its long skein 
which a long time ago began . . . 
let down-burn out 1-2-3-4-5-6 . . .
 NOW SHOWING 
Burt Lancaster-Judy Garland
"A Child Is Waiting"
- also -
Sophia Loren-Anthony Perkins 
"Five Miles to Midnight"
- coming - 
"Borrobos"
- and -
"A Girl Named Tomiho"
'COCA-COLA" AND "COKE" ARC REGISTERED TRADE-MARK WHfCH IDENTIFY ONLY THE PPOOUCT OP THE COCA-COLA COM PAW*-
exam... pencil... paper 
proctor.. .time... begin 
think...blank...tick tick 
guess...tick tick...write 
tick tick...hurry...finish 
time... pause...
OluL l tULlu---OF5Y2s 2S tLOOLU 05OF ESuL
Bottled under the authority o! The Coca-Cola Company by: '
QUAKER STATE COCO-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 2?, 1963
Have You Bought Your Thistle Yet?
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associafes 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLY'S
Campus  Favored
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH  PUPPIES 
LOAFERS LOAFERS 
FLATS MASSAGIC 
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIMU.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AYE. (Across from Strand Theater)
LANGUAGE STUDENTS
KEEP UP TO DATE 
BY READING THE
READER'S DIGEST
IN
FRENCH$4.00 IZZ $7 00
per GERMAN fr
year andana yearsENGLISH(for comparison)
write
The House of 4 Languages. Inc. 
French Spanish Italian 
508 Vt Fifth Avenue 
McKeesport, Pennsylvania
. Mechanical Body and Fender 
Foreign Cars Repaired
Sensible Prices
24-Hours Pick-Up and Towing Service 
Kazimir Politowicz 
30 Years European Experience
R0CCASAN0 M0I0R SALES
3 Locations 1 phone number 
7936 Batavia Street answers 24 hours  call
8003 Bennett Street OOl QOHfl 
671 Tokay Street wO*"5!fclJU
Get your Campus Pac before it's too late.
Take that, Jeffrey Axelrad.
You never had it so clean.You cannot brush bad breath away.
Oh, my wisdom tooth.
ASOF5Y2 UlsFLU BSU (STU Fl5U OFlY 2ULlsLbLO w5Olp5s 
05OF w6k uLLM (STU Fl5U YLlO lpp .pl( 05OFSTO 2ULlsLNaturaHy. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis with 
V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your baif neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today. Youll like it!
Pollen makes me sneeze.Aw, my poor baby.

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 19  ?
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
Youll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
hotel WebM -Halt
4415 Fifth Avenue Plttiburgh 13, fa. 
T.Uphon*: MAyflow.r 1-7700
- i ^ open every Tuesday evening
FranJdiiiFEDERAL ^kV
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION '
6816 FORBES AVE.. SQUIRREL HILL
p,bw cs Alhaw oC cla,slD to wtl EswwekiaRt NoGGiSswU
 Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too.
 Save by the 10th  earn from the first.
 All sayings insured up to 510,000.
John M. Roberts & Son Co.
 3 Stores 
Downtown East Hills Ml. Lebanon
eh1 aSSn fOfFSMM5Y2 ELYOLU AL9O OS dSUYLrs
Special College Time Payments Available
OUR DIAMONDSCOPE: Each diamond is 
gem tested and registered as to color, cut
ting, clarity and carat weight for your 
protection. No doubt your great, great 
Grandmothers Diamond came from 
Roberts.
Tartan Football Spirit Terrific; 
Prospects For Next Season High
Team Ends
A Tech halfback about to go down in Saturday's final bruising scrimmage.
For the past two weeks the varsity football team has 
been conducting spring football practice on the field behind 
Morewood Gardens. While spring practice has been normal 
for Tech football teams, the practice sessions this spring have 
been different in one respect  the spirit shown by all the 
ball players.
For the first time in several 
seasons, the players themselves 
are looking forward to an even 
season, in spite of the 1-7 record 
the Tartans have turned in for 
the past two years. The hard, 
spirited workouts, rain or shine, 
bear out the fact that the team 
wants and plans to bring home 
more than a few victories for 
Carnegie Tech.
The reason behind much of this 
spirit can be traced directly to 
Techs new head coach, Joe Gasparella, a former Notre Dame star 
and Pittsburgh Steeler quarter
back. Coach Gasparella had his 
charges doing contact work the 
third day of practice, a little 
sooner than was done under for
mer coach Hirshberg. More im
portant, the squad seems to relish 
this contact and is very eager to 
knock down a lot more opponents 
than were put down last year.
Coach Gasparella said he was 
very encouraged with the spring 
practice turnout and the enthus
iasm of the players. All the prac
tice time has been spent educat
ing the team to a new offense. We 
feel that the team has adjusted to 
this new offense extremely well 
considering the brief spring prac
tice.
This new offense is patterned 
much after the pro-style offense 
used in the National Football 
League with a split end and a 
halfback flanked to the other side. 
With these two flankers used pri
marily as pass receivers, it looks 
as if Tech will sport an open, ex
citing offense that should have
a lot more scoring punch than 
was shown last season.
Coach Gasparella pointed out 
that his assistants for the spring 
practice included Pittsburgh 
Steeler stars Myron Pottios and 
Dick Hoak. Pottios was an All-; 
American guard-linebackcr at 
Notre Dame and played in the 
Pro-Bowl in his first year with 
the Steelers. Hoak was also AllAmerican, playing both halfback 
and quarterback for Penn State.
They contributed heavily to 
our practice sessions, said Coach 
Gasparella, and if possible we 
hope to have their assistance this 
coming fall. Ed Fay, former 
Notre Dame and Pittsburgh Steel
er guard has also helped out this 
spring along with last years as
sistants Jess Quatse, Marshall 
Brown, and Bob Mile.
Returning next year for Car
negie are thirteen lettermen as 
well as seventeen hopefuls that 
joined in spring practice. We 
most definitely need more re
placements because of the short
age of players, said Coach Gas
parella. Because of the new rule 
change allowing mass substitu
tion and our new style of offense, 
we expect to have most everyone 
playing. We would like to encour
age students to come out for the 
team regardless of their football 
experience.
Fall practice will begin the day 
after Labor Day with Coach Gasparella inviting thirty-five play
ers from spring practice and the 
incoming ireshman class. The 
opening game is September 21 
away against Ohio Wesleyan. The 
Tartans will return home to face 
Dennison in the Tech Bowl on 
September 28.
While in the spring all coaches, 
players and sportswriters tend to 
be optimistic about the fall foot
ball season, there is good reason 
for such optimism here at Car
negie. With thirteen lettermen re
turning including Techs most val
uable player, halfback A1 Abels, 
and the aggressive spirit display
ed at spring practice, Carnegie 
Techs opponents should find 
Coach Gasparellas squad a rough 
team to beat  rough enough to 
whip some of the teams that 
barely edged Tech last year.
 Photo by Bill Jackson
Andy Neidro hands the baton to Hank Werronen in mile relay.
TrackWell
Carnegie Tech closed out a 
highly successful track season last 
Wednesday by whipping Geneva, 
102-38. This gave the Tartan thinclads a season mark of two wins 
in triangular meets and four wins 
and two losses in dual meets. 
Falling to the Tartans thi syear 
were Jeannette, Waynesburg, In
diana, Allegheny, W&J, Western 
Reserve, St. Francis, and Geneva, 
while close losses were admin
istered by Westminster and Grove 
City.
It might have been expected
that, without the incentive of a 
conference meet to look forward 
to, the Tech trackers would not 
be up for the Geneva meet. How
ever, five of the best perform
ances of the year were turned in.
Certainly, the best exhibition 
was given by Bob Diskin in the 
broad jump. Diskin broke a long 
standing school and track record 
when he turned in a jump of 23- 
feet, 4-inches. Only a sophomore, 
Diskin has been a real spark to 
the team, giving good perform[continued on page 8]
rf,h OUhF usSe 
Carnegie HN
The Womans Athletic Associa
tion has presented its annual 
awards for participation in intra
mural sports. The awards were 
distributed on the basis of a point 
system which gave one point for 
each hour of participation. Nu
meral awards designating the re
cipients year of graduation re
quired a minimum of 40 points.
These awards were given to: 
Monica Gosse, Barbara Johnson, 
Iris Schneider, Elva Uyak, and 
Lee Weller.
A Carnegie C award required 
a minimum of 110 points. This 
award was presented to Elva 
Uyak.*330
.00 Fed. Tax 
Incl.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa^C 8  C ARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, May 22, 1963
Trackmen Beat 
Geneva 102-38
[continued on page 7]
ances all year in the broad jump, 
high jump, and hop, step, and 
jump.
Jon Borofsky did a creditable 
job in the shot with a heave of 
44-feet, 4-inches, one of his best 
marks of the year. A junior, 
Borofsky is to be regarded as a 
threat to the school record next 
year.
Chris Macosco, against little 
competition, turned in a 4:35 in 
the mile. Macosco is only a fresh
man, and in the next three years 
a new record should be posted in 
the Tech book.
Mike Campbell closed out his 
college running career with an 
excellent showing in the two mile. 
Mike breezed through the eight 
laps in 10 minutes and 11 seconds, 
his best showing of the year and 
only a fraction of a second off his 
all-time best.
The mile-relay team also gave 
its best performance of the year. 
Led by Andy Niedra, with a first 
leg 51.1, and Dennis Gary, with 
an anchor leg 50.9, the quartet of 
Niedra, Hank Werronen, Bob Biggart, and Gary posted a 3:29.9, 
only four tenths of a second off 
last years best, and only 1.3 sec
onds off the school record.
Dennis Gary closed out his col
lege career with wins in the 100 
and 220, and the anchor leg of the 
mile relay. Gary was voted the 
Most Valuable Player for the 
third consecutive year, a rare dis-1 
tinction. Certainly one of CITs 
all-time greats, Gary overcamei 
the handicap of having never run 
in high school. Spotted in a gym I 
class his freshman year by Mr. 
Earl Birdy, Tech phys ed instrucI 
tor, Gary will be sorely missed1 
next year.
Tech will lose only two letter
men for next year, Campbell andj 
Gary, both graduating seniors.! 
Although these two men played i 
an important part in Techs suc-i 
cess in the past two years, the! 
remaining team is still strong; 
enough to again be one of the 
areas best.
The team was especially fortu
nate to have Reed Clark as coach1 
this year. Although only recently! 
graduated from Pitt, Coach Clark j 
was outstanding in training his j 
charges. His grueling workoutshad a positive effect on the team, 
as attested to by the fine record' 
they acquired i
\
Thistle Price Goes Up June 1
Grad Eagles In Softball Finals, 
Play Kappa Sig or SAE For Title
-------------------------------------------------- #
Jaws, Whales 
Compete For 
Minors Champ
The Jaweewees and the Whales, 
two teams who finished in second  
place in their respective leagues, 
won their semi-final games to 
move into the finals of the minor 
league softball playoffs.
The Jaweewees nipped ATO 
T by a score of 5-4 to earn 
their berth. ATOs Bob Roberts 
gave up only five hits but the 
Jaweewees managed to score 
nearly every time they put a man 
on base. ATO pushed across three I 
runs in the final inning but their 
rally was cut short when Tom 
Soffa threw out Ron Robinson at 
the plate for the final out of the 
game.
The Whales used their tough 
hitting attack to push across thir
teen runs, five in the third inning, 
to clobber the Peanuts 13-9. Linsey Sargent hit a home run for 
the Whales in this game.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Result: Ford-built cars demonstrate outstanding durability 
in competitions like the Daytona 500
Results of recent competitive events prove dramatically the 
durability and reliability of todays Ford-built cars. Our cars swept 
the first five places in the Daytona 500 for example. More important 
to youFord-built entries had the highest ratio of finishers in 
this grueling test of stamina! Less than halfjust 23of the 50 
starters finished; 13 of them were Ford-built!
Competitions such as the Daytona 500 are car killers. Piston 
rings can fail, transmissions can be demolished and engines 
blow up under these maximum efforts. It's a grinding demand 
for total performance and Ford-built cars proved they could take 
it better than any of the others.
Quite an eye-opener for car buyers. And conclusive proof that 
superior engineering at Ford Motor Company has produced more 
rugged engines and transmissions, sturdier bodies and frames 
and better all-round durability for todays Ford-built automobiles.
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEAOERSHII
SAE had a rougher road to the 
semi-finals than did Kappa Sig. 
They beat ATO 7-6 in the first 
round but only after left fielder 
Roberts of SAE made a stumbling 
one handed catch of Parmenters 
long fly that would have tied the 
score if it had dropped in. SAE 
played errorless ball but ATO let 
three unearned runs cross the 
plate to give SAE the game.
In the quarterfinals, SAE whip
ped Tau Delta Phi 14-3, pushing 
across twelve tallies in the fourth 
and fifth inning to sew the game 
up. Metz homered for SAE in the 
fourth while Borofsky hit one in 
the third for the Tau Delts. Howie 
Gammon, one of the leagues 
tougher pitchers gave up nine 
hits but he came through in the 
clutch to strand eight runners 
while striking out six Tau Delt 
hitters.
Whether SAE or Kappa Sigma 
win their semi-final match, the 
Grad Eagles would have to be 
made a slight favorite to win the 
championship. Kappa Sig has a 
strong hitting attack and SAE has 
a tough pitcher in Howie Gam
mon, but the Grads seem just a 
little too strong overall for either 
team.
B squad was never in the game. 
Cresine contributed three singles 
for the Grads while Fox chipped 
in with two. The only threat the 
B team made was in the fifth 
when they scored three runs, but 
by this time the S squad had an 
insurmountable nine run lead.
In the finals, the Grads S will 
face either Kappa Sigma or Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon, depending upon 
who won yesterdays semi-final 
game. Kappa Sig drew a bye in 
the first round before they beat 
Beta Theta Pi in the quarter
finals. The Betas had earlier 
whipped the Finks by a score of 
18-6 with Gorsko belting out two 
home runs for BTP. This situation 
reversed itself in the Kappa Sig 
game. Beile and Scholl each hit 
home runs for KS and all in all, 
Kappa Sig collected 25 runs on 15 
hits while committing only two 
errors to rout the Betas 25-9.
The Grad Eagles powerful S 
squad moved into the finals of the 
intramural softball playoffs on 
Monday night by virtue of a 9 to 
4 win over their counterparts the 
Grad Eagles B.
This was th Grad Eagles S 
teams second victory in the play
offs. their first coming in the sec
ond round over the Trojans. The 
Trojans, had edged DTD 6-5 in a 
game that ran right down to the 
final out. Down by a run in the 
top of the seventh, Carl Fink un
loaded a two out two-run homer 
to put the Trojans ahead 6-5. 
Then the Delts loaded the bases 
with none out in their half of the 
inning, but the Trojans forced two 
runners at the plate and got Baier 
to fly out to end the game.
In their game with the Grad 
Eagles, though, the Trojans could 
never quite get untracked against 
Crecines 5 hit pitching. Three 
singles and a walk wrapped 
around Fred Kosof skys double 
and Bobby Foxs triple resulted 
in five runs for the Grads in the 
second inning. Kelse pitched shut
out ball the rest of the way for 
the Trojans, but his teammates 
just couldn't find the range with 
their bats.
The Grads B squad found 
things a little rougher getting into 
the semi-finals. They whipped the
Vulcans 7-2 in the first round of 
the playoffs, although they col
lected only four hits, the Grads 
used home runs by Fleck and Weil 
to push over three of their tallies.
The game between the B 
team and BSR was a close comedy 
of errors, especially on the part of 
Beta Sig, who committed ten miscues to let in ten unearned runs. 
The Grads did their best to return 
the favors, letting all Beta Sigs 
runs in on an unearned basis. 
Singles by Weil, Kapner, and 
Fleck coupled with three Beta Sig 
errors allowed the Grads to score 
the winning runs in the final inn
ings.
Against the Eagles S team, the 
B squad turned in some more 
sloppy fielding but, this time the 
tough S squad didnt return the 
favor. The S team scored four 
runs  all unearned  in the first 
inning, and from that point on, the
