CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Volume 52Number 24 WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1959
In Frat Booth CompetitionStudent Congress
There is a Student Congress 
meeting today at 4:30 in Por
ter Hall 100. It will be a joint 
meeting of both the old and 
new congresses for the sole 
purpose of electing next 
years chairman and vicechairman.
Earle Swank Chosen 
To Be Dean of Men
President Warner crowns Peggy Lengyel 1959 Carnival Queen.
Peggy Lengyel 
 Chosen Queen
Climaxing several v/eeks of campaigning and an all
school election, Peggy Lengyel was chosen as Techs 1959 
Spring Carnival Queen.
Hundreds of Tech students and their dates waited
anxiously in the hot sun at Flag-1 
staff Hill for the queen to be 
announced by President Warner. 
J^ith Scabbard and Blade, the 
ROTC honorary acting as color 
guard, the queen was presented 
her crown by Dr. Warner accom
panied by a kiss of congratula
tions.
Court Entertainment
Following the coronation, the 
Court was entertained by the 
Scotch dancing of Emily David
son and her assistants. Then 
Peggy, surrounded by her courtf
t isisting of Lex Baker, Kappa 
appa Gamma, and Becky Con
rad, Kappa Alpha Theta, and her 
flower girls, Pat Moore, Sally 
Ganong, and Judy Perry, official
ly opened Spring Carnival 1959.
Peggy, a painting and design 
major plans to teach elementary 
art in Long Island next year after 
graduation. She is from nearby 
Wilkinsburg, Pa., and has been a 
member of Delta Gamma and Stu
dent Congress. Peggy also added 
that she had no matrimonial plans 
for the near future.
Cameron Choir
The annual Cameron Choir 
Spring Concert will be held 
tomorrow night at 8:30 p.m. 
in GSIA auditorium'. Admis
sion is free.
Tartan Correction
The Tartan wishes to clarify a situation which may have 
^en confused by an article in the Tartan of April 29.
The statement entitled Student Congress Gives Ruling 
On The Panty Raid w^s not the final decision in the case; 
rather it was the student courts recommendation to the 
Disciplinary Committee of the school. Upon receipt of this 
recommendation, the Disciplinary Committee will review the 
findings and a final statement will be forthcoming.
The Tartan hopes that this case will serve as an example 
to clarify the workings of the Supreme Court of Student Con
fess in the area of student disciplinary action. Certain 
es such as the student uprising are turned over to the 
student court, subject to the necessary condition that the pro
posal of the court be reviewed by the Disciplinary Committee 
of the school.
The final statement in the panty raid case should be 
reached some time this week. The Tartan feels that the com
pletion of this case will be a milestone in the development of 
a. sound, responsible student government at Tech.
Theta Xi Takes First Place ,
In Fraternity Booth Competitio
Saturday night at the Spring Carnival formal dance, 
Theta XI was awarded first place for fraternity booth design. 
Led by booth chairman, Howard Schafer, the TXs worked 
their theme Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves into an excellent
Arabian booth. The game m con-^------------------------------------------------------------
sisted of rolling three balls into
three holes on a moving oriental 
carpet. If this was accomplished, a 
prize was awarded from an open
ed cave, such as Ali Baba once 
opened with the words, Open 
Sesame. The oriental theme was 
heightened by the Turkish dress 
of the TXs who ran the booth.
Kappa Sigma Second
Second place was awarded to 
Kappa Sigma for their booth, 
The Abduction of Helen of 
Troy. Under the chairmanship of 
Laird Sinions the booth was built 
to resemble a Greek temple and 
featured a shooting game. Cross
bows equipped with rubber ar
rows were furnished to shoot at 
Greek soldiers. If a soldier was 
hit, a doll representing Helen was 
released. If the doll fell into one 
of the boats that was moving by, 
a prize was awarded.
Beta Theta Pi and booth chair
man, John Crecine, received the 
third place award for their booth 
centered around a Captain Kidd 
theme. The booth featured the 
traditional I Ducked a Beta 
game but with a new twist. The 
Beta who sat aboard a ship was 
ducked if the rudder of the ship 
was hit by a wooden peg, shot 
from a teal cannon.
Keys and Awards 
Were Presented 
At Techs Call Day
The appointment of Earle R. Swank to the office of dean 
of men was announced by Dr. John C. Warner, president of 
Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Swanks appointment is effective July 1 at which
---------------------------------------------------------?time he will reactivate the office
of dean of men, the duties of which 
have been handled during a fouryear interim period by various 
university officials.
As chairman of the Student Fi
nancial Aid Committee for the 
past three years, Mr. Swank has 
had frequent opportunities to be
come familiar with the students 
at Carnegie Tech. He has been 
administering the various schol
arship and loan programs and has 
been advisor to foreign students. 
English
A member of the Carnegie Tech 
faculty since his appointment as 
instructor of English in 1943, Mr. 
Swank now holds the title of 
assistant professor of English and 
will continue his work in that de
partment.
Mr. Swank received his A.B. 
degree from Muhlenberg in 1943, 
and an M.A. from Harvard in 
1943.
The naming of a new dean of 
men caps an investigation of over 
70 candidates for the position. 
When the post was vacated four 
years ago, the administration de
cided to allocate various respon
sibilities of the office to several 
other departments at Tech. The 
recent expansion of duties of 
some of these offices has made it 
necessary to once again centralize 
the duties of the dean of men.
Mr. Swank is unmarried, the 
son of the late Harry E.- and 
Georgia J. Swank of Tamaqua, 
Pennsylvania.
New Egg ThrowCoRecord Is Set Bv 
Metallurgy Team
Last Friday afternoon on the 
Fine Arts lawn, a capacity crowd 
saw a new egg throwing record 
of 138' be set by the metallurg}' 
department team of W. H. Robin
son and G. M. Pound. The pre
vious record of 125'-8" was also 
broken by the physics department 
team of E. M. Pugh and George 
Lang with, a throw of 131'1".
Eight departmental teams com
posed of two faculty members 
from each department took part 
in the egg throw. Each team was 
given three chances to make a 
successful throw and five of the 
teams were able to do this. Be
sides the two record breaking 
teams, the printing department 
team of John Barney and W. A.
[continued on page 5]
PiKA Wins 
Buggy Race
Last Saturday morning the an
nual buggy races of Spring Car
nival weekend were held from 10 
to 12 a.m. As usual there was a 
big turnout to see these buggies, 
products of many man-hours of 
work and buggy-psh training, 
enter into the final hours of their 
prepared competition.
The races originally planned for 
Friday morning could not be run ! 
because of the large number of 
parked cars blocking the course. ! 
However, under a new ruling ! 
passed this year, the winners were 
chosen from the best heat times j 
of the next day.
PiKA First .
Under the leadership of Ants j 
Mikk, buggy chairman, and Jack ! 
Hubacker, assistant chairman, j 
PiKA copped a first place in the I 
buggy sweepstakes with a winning !
At Call Day last Friday, May 
1, student recognition and 
achievement awards and honorary 
calls were made.
Student Congress activity 
awards were presented by Tom 
Evans to: Tom Bieg. Bob Cleve
land, Dave Dull, Dick Hamilton,
Lou Pondy, Pete Sargent, Barb 
Shannon, M. J. Stevens, Ruth Vysoky, and Jack Walker.
Activity keys were also award
ed to: Fred Heider, Fran Bebic,
Dotty Behner, John Berg, Len 
Cozza, Marion Doepkin, Jan Fal
mouth, Merill King, Bill Oldham, | time of 2:29.7 minutes. 
Sally Lindsay, Tim McGuire, Lee 
Ligo, Ray Nix, Terry Rudy, Eric 
Suggs, Nat Tiech, and Ken 
Wilkins.
The Sigma Alpha Iota Award 
for outstanding achievement in 
the field of music was presented 
by Greta Gilmartin to Valerie 
Gordon.
Fran Bebic made the presenta
tion for Mortar Board. Natalie 
Laird received the scholarship and 
Alice Gealy the award for the 
highest womens freshman factor,
Judith Anderson for the sopho
mores, and Marlene Swogger for 
[continued on page 5]
Draft
If you are planning to con
tinue your education during 
the academic year, 1959-1950, 
whether here at C.I.T. or 
some other institution and you 
are under the jurisdiction of 
Selective Service Regulations, 
you should consult and carer 
fully read the informative 
notice which is posted on 
campus and dormitory bulle
tin boards. As the registrant 
of a local board, it is your 
obligation to attend to this 
very important item of per
sonal business at once.
Norm Ostrau 
ins A Phi O
UMOC Contest
Last Saturday night the Ugliest 
Man On Campus, Norm Ostrau, 
Sigmu Nu, under the leadership was presented with his Ugly Mug 
of Jim Flowers and several other by the president of Alpha Phi 
hard-working brothers, came Omega, Ken Thompson, 
through with a second place time1 The total $318.81 collected h?is 
of 2:30.3 minutes; only a mere. been given to the Campus Chest 
six-tenth of a second behind first Committee of Student Congress to
place PiKA.
Third place in the sweepstakes 
competition was won by Phi Kap
pa Theta under the chairmanship 
of William Nusso. Phi Kappa 
Thetas winning time was 2:32.5 
minutes.
The ATO buggy suffered a timbe distributed to various charities. 
Of that amount, $296 was collect
ed on the final day, Friday, April 
17.
Alpha Phi Omega wishes to 
thank each individual candidate 
and their sponsor for the terrific 
job of campaigning they did.
ing mistake in the first heat of Without their support and yours 
the day. The large number of peo1 this project could never be the 
[continued on page 5] success it is!
t

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, Maj 6, 1959
James Burnham 
Lecturing This 
Week At Tech
James Burnham, editor of the 
National Review and former 
professor of philosophy at New 
York University, lectured on 
American Liberalism in Theory 
and Practice yesterday at Car
negie Tech.
The third speaker in the Maur
ice Falk lectures on Social Rela
tions, Mr. Burnham treated three 
different aspects of his topic. On 
Tuesday, May 5, he discussed 
Diagnosis at 11:30 a.m. in the
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration auditorium. Today 
he will discuss Critique at 3:30 
p.m. and on Thursday, his topic 
will be Prognosis.
A graduate of Princeton and 
Oxford, Mr. Burnham is the au
thor of several books which have 
received national acclaim and 
world-wide publication. Among 
these are: The Managerial Rev<^ 
lution, 1941; The Machiavellians, 
1943; The Struggle for the World, 
1947; The Case for De Gaulle 
(with Andre Malraux); The Com
ing Defeat of Communism, 1950; 
Containment or Liberation?, 1953; 
and The Web of Subversion, 1954.
By Bill Pence
The final production of the de
partment of drama this year will 
be a staged reading of Lewis Car
rolls Alice in Wonderland, and 
will play May 6 to May 15 in the 
Fine Arts Theatre.
Directed by Mary Morris, this 
production of Alice will be mu
sically presented as a reading. For 
those unfamiliar with this stage 
technique, they will be surprised 
to see no costumes and no scenictype sets. The only setting is a 
series of platform levels designed 
by F. Anthony Benko. Each year, 
it has been tradition to end the 
drama season with a reading since 
it is extremely practical, both eco
nomic and time-wise.
The play, Alice in Wonder
land is almost identical to the 
childrens book we are all fa
miliar with. The expression, 
childrens book is used with 
reservation, because the Lewis 
Carroll fantasy has often been 
called a keen insight into the 
economic and political situations 
of his day. Those only familiar 
with the Walt Disney handling of 
it will find in the play something 
more significant than the mere 
fantasy of Disneys chemistry.
Tickets for Alice in Wonder
land are still available in the 
Fine Arts office. Curtain is at 8:20 
p.m.
Carol Byrd
Freshman Home Ec. Major
Thistle Staff Extends Campaign 
To Meet 1100 Book Contract
The Thistle staff must extend its sales campaign in order 
to meet its contract for 1100 yearbooks. We have fallen be
low this required number this year. 
Beginning Monday, May 4, yearbooks will be sold in
Skibo everyday for two weeks. ?-------------------------------------------------------------
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday Ammannito, 2D Morewood Garwe will sell from 11:30 to 12:30, ! dens; or Fred Kissell, FR/*l-7083. 
and Tuesday and Thursday from Orders can also be placed in cam11:30 to 1:30. Those who wish to pus mail care of The Thistle, Box
purchase a Thistle may also con
tact 2C Morewood Gardens; Ray 
Istvanick, 221 Donner Hall; Dick 
Clemm, 102 Scobell Hall; Kathy
122. There is also an order blank 
for a yearbook in this issue of the 
Tartan, and there will also be one 
in the next issue.
Thistle Order 
Blank
Please reserve my Thistle. 
Enclosed: ( ) $5.00
( ) $ .30 (for mailing)
( ) $2.00 (down payment)
Name ....................................................
Local Address 
Phone ...............
Return to:
THISTLE 
Box 122 
Campus Mail
Well sir, one summer Sigafoos lost his entire fortune gambling 
at the casino. He was seriously contemplating suicide when, 
quite unexpectedly, a letter arrived from one Lotus Petal 
McGinnis, a Javanese girl and an avid stamp collector, with 
whom Sigafoos had been corresponding from time to time 
through the international stamp collectors journal. Until now 
the nature of their correspondence, though friendly, had been 
strictly philatelic, but in this new letter Lotus Petal declared 
that although she had never laid eyes on Sigafoos, she loved 
him and wanted to marry him. She said she was eighteen years 
old, beautiful and docile, and her father, the richest man in the 
tribe, had agreed to give half his fortune to the husband of her 
choice. Sigafoos, penniless and desperate, immediately booked 
passage for Java.
The first sight of his prospective bride failed to delight Siga
foos. She was, as she said, beautifulbut only by local stand
ards. Sigafoos had serious doubts that her pointed scarlet teeth 
and the chicken bones hanging from her ears would be con
sidered chic along the Champs Elysies.
But sobering as was the sight of Lotus Petal, Sigafoos had 
an even greater disappointment coming when he met her father.
The old gentleman was, as Lotus Petal claimed, the richest man 
in the tribe, but, unfortunately, the medium of exchange in his 
tribe was prune pits.
Sigafoos took one look at the mound of prune pits which was 
his dowry, gnashed his teeth, and stomped off into the jungle, 
swearing vilely and kicking at whatever lay in his path. Stomp
ing thus, swearing thus, kicking thus, Sigafoos kicked over a 
heap of old bones whichwhat do you know!turned out to  
be Pithecanthropus Erectusl
But I disgress. From the brutish Pithecanthropus, man 
evolved slowly upward in intellect. By the Middle Paleolithic 
period man had invented the leash, which was a remarkable 
technical achievement, but frankly not particularly useful until 
the Mesolithic period when man invented the dog.
In the Neolithic period came the most important discovery 
in the history of manthe discovery of agriculture. Why is this 
so important? Because, good friends, without agriculture there 
would be no tobacco, and without tobacco there would be no 
Marlboro, and without Marlboro you would be without the 
finest filter cigarette that money can buy, and I would be with
out a job.
Thats why.  Vol loo wmio.*
  
Without tobacco you would also be without Marlboro*s lister 
cigarette, Philip Morris, a non-lter smoke that can't be 
beat. Philip Morris or Marlboropick your pleasure.
CoJ Of JL WedDrama Dept. 
Closes Season
B. J. Remold Tobacco Co., 
WBiton-Stltu, H. CL
I see your husband's after her Camels again!
More red-blooded skiers chase after Camels 
than any other cigarette today. The Camel 
blend of costly tobaccos has never been 
equalled for rich flavor and easygoing mild
ness. The best tobacco makes the best smoke.
leave fads and fancy stuff to beginners ...
Have a real cigarettehave a CAMEL
On Campus^cShuJman
(By the A ulhor of Rally Round the Flag, Boys! and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.")
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. 3
Today, ranging again into the fascinating world of social science, 
let us take up the subject of anthropologythe study of man 
and his origins.
The origin of man was indeed a puzzle until the Frenchman, 
Jean-Louis Sigafoos, discovered the skull and shinbone of 
Pithecanthropus Erectus in Java in 1891. What Sigafoos was 
doing in Java is, incidentally, quite an odd little story. Sigafoos 
was a "Parisian born and bred. By day one could always find 
him at a sidewalk cafe, sipping barley water and ogling the 
girls; each night he went to a fashionable casino where he 
gambled heavily at roulette and go-fish; in between times he 
worked on his stamp collection, which was one of the largest 
in Paris.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May , 195$CARNEGIE TARTANPare 3
President Warner crowns Peggy Lengyel as court members Lex  Norm Ostrau. UMOC winner, uncovers the big smile he lias, been
Baker and Becky Conrad look on. Photos by Beste and Laval hiding since the beginning of elections.
Spring 
Carnival 
Pictures
Scabbard and Blade serving as honor guard for Queen Coronation 
at Flagstaff Hill.Joel Edelman is sealed into the Beta Sig buggy prior to the of
ficial heat.
Kappa Sigmas second place booth The Abduction of Helen ol The sun finally came out and dried up the proverbial mud of the
Troy** stands out In the afternoon sun. carnival midway.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, May 6, 1959
Editorial
Thistle Support
Part of every college is its yearbook. Not 
only does a college yearbook carry the pic
tures of graduating seniors; it fulfills a much 
greater purpose. It writes the history of a 
school in permanent, pictorial form. A school 
without a year book would be a school in sad 
condition indeed.
Nevertheless, Carnegie Tech may fall into 
this category. Despite the efforts of the This
tle staff, the sales of the 1959 Thistle are be
low the necessary quota.
Student Obligation
It is the obligation of all Techites to give 
support to their student publications. If one 
does not have the time or opportunity to 
tender this support in the form of direct par
ticipation, he should fulfill his obligation by 
buying and reading his schools publications.
The deadlines for ordering copies of the 
1959 Thistle have been extended two more 
weeks. The Tartan calls upon all commuters, 
fraternity men, dorm students, Maggie 
Murphs, and Fine Arts students to do their 
minimum share by ordering a copy of the 
1959 Thistle if they have not already done so.
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
PegyLn fcmRYONEKMEMBft I SAID WE'ED HAVfATfST W
aro 
liant
FRIENDSHIP
Ys Plan Special 
Stiident-F acuity 
Weekend, May 9-10
chairmen, the theme Values  problem of values from the perCulture  You was chosen as a spectives of science, liberal arts, 
response to a feeling of confusion and fine artg The sessions will be 
expressed by many students in . ,
judging values. The values within formal, depending more upon
our culture seem to be changing. 
Old reference points are fading, 
but there seem to be no new 
ones that are dependable. Add to 
this apparent aimlessness of our
Thirty Carnegie Tech students 
will participate in a student-faculty weekend on May 9-10 at 
Camp Kon-O-Kwee near Zelienople. ! culture, the complexities of our
The weekend, sponsored by the civilization and the strains of the 
Tech Y.M.C.A.-Y.W.C.A., will \ cold war, and it makes a pretty 
focus on the theme: Values  dismal picture for the individual 
Culture  You, and will feature to cope with. Still, in the midst of
as faculty leaders Dr. John G. 
Fox, professor and head of phy
sics, and George Mark Ellis, as
sistant professor of history.
Reference Points 
According to Mary Poehlmann 
and George Olson, the student cothis kind of world, individuals 
must hew out for themselves some 
set of values which will be adeIn this era of speed, automation, and pro
duction-line-living, it is vastly important that 
one avoids complete mechanization of the in
dividual. This is best accomplished through 
the simple, oft taken for granted medium of 
friendship.
In the Little Prince, Saint-Exupery illtLtrates his grasp of this situation with the 
poignant interchange between the little 
prince mentions his quest for friends, the sa
gacious fox speaks of the necessity of tam
ing. He defines taming as an act too often 
neglected; it means to establish ties. The fox 
continues, pointing out that at the time of 
their meeting, the little prince was nothing 
more than a little boy just like a hundred 
thousand others; and that he, the fox, was 
nothing, more than a fox like a hundred thousand others. 
Neither had need of the other. If the prince were to tame* 
the fox, however, each would have need of the other and to 
each the other would be unique. The fox concludes with thethe interaction of'the faculty lead
ers with each other and with the i(jea that only one understands the things that one tames. 
students than upon formal lec j haye nQ more ^ tQ understand anything. They
tures. |
The weekend is open to any i buy things already made at the shops. But there is no shop i
Carnegie Tech student, but in orI the world where one can buy friendships. Even Machiavelli 
der to insure good discussion, no understood this when he said, Friendship which is gained by 
more than thirty registrations will j purchase and not through grandeour and nobility of spirit 
be accepted. First come, first is bouhtg but not secured.
served. Reservations can be made 
by paying in advance the $7.00
pillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ 
| Readers Write . . . j
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim
Cut Em Up Again
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to address this letter to Mr. George B. Spelvin. in commenting on his rather mistitled critique of last 
week, Cut Em Up Again.
Certainly, those of Scotch n*------------------------------------------------------------
As Saint-Exupery suggests, friendship, i.e. this underquate for creative and useful livfee, which includes all costs and standing, should unfold gradually. A companion possesses a
ing. transportation, at the Y Office dark grey flannel suit which from a distance appears to be
anytime before 5:00 p.m. Wedrather common. As one draws nearer, he is pleased to find
| nesday, May 6. The group will instead a suit of subtle grey plaid. On even closer inspection,
leave Carnegie Union at 1:00 p.m. brouhtg about by the pleasant sensation of finding more than
Saturday, May 9, and will return hacj been anticipated, one finds a single blue thread running
Informal
The weekend will explore this
by 3:00 Sunday, May 10.
Sn S Music
Editor, The Tartan:
This years Scotch n Sodas 
Revuesical was without a doubt 
one of the finest shows ever pre
sented on this campus.
I agree wholeheartedly with last 
weeks article, that Jim DeBlasis 
did a truly notable and profes
sional job of directing, and that
Soda who have labored for extremely difficult to surpass the costumes, sets, and* lighting were j whole of his personality, 
months in the production of Set I fine job done by the technical 
Em Up Again appreciate the j crews this year, in converting the
through the plaid. How much more interesting is this series 
of reactions to visual stimuli than to see a suit of large black 
and white checks. Ones vision is assaulted from a distance; 
propinquity contributes nothing to what has been observed 
at first glimpse. Certainly all of us have occasioned the black 
and white check individual who reveals his complete self 
in a matter of seconds (and also usually a very impress-, a 
life history') Does one feel attracted to this individual? Most 
likely not. One is generally satisfied with the glimpse from a 
distance. Thus the wise friend-to-be permits judicious revela
tion of his finer attributes, his inner thought and feelings; the
kind
prod
club
and
mak
vords you said about the theatre. As sung in a Walt Disney
excellent. But as a music major, 
it distresses me that no mention 
was made of the music, so exT , . ,. , . pertly written by our own Richard: onI speak for the entire . movie of several years back; Its j RusseU. Carnegie Tech may be
,vhen I say that your fine . what you do with what youve 
ppreciative editorial helped ! got that counts 
Set Em Up Again the re-! 
warding experience that it was. | a reanze max staging a
There is one comment of yours, j Scotch n Soda show in the gym 
however, which causes me to rise is a far cry from the professional 
up in the clubs defense. The com-! theatrical atmosphere we could 
ment I am speaking of is on the1 achieve in some other structure, 
suitability of the gym for our i However, it must be remembered 
musical production. May I say j that the club each year runs on 
that I strongly feel that the gym ! an extremely tight budget, which ! 
has nev
The sensitive man will take the time and the patience to 
develop friendship and hence understanding.
Blenheim
proud to call Dick one of its stu
dents. Here is someone with truly
a great amount of talent. While tAe
none of the songs were those we 
are likely to hear among the top 
ten, they will linger on this 
campus for a long time to come.
May I remind you that, in order 
to be really a huge success,
1 both the spoken word and the j OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
sung
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
I - - - . aune lyric must work hand-inOffice Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU
er looked as theatrical as could not permit a production on ^and. Co-operation between these 2-8851. Published weekly during the school ye^r except holidays r d 
:>r the 59 production. The some other staee. Moving Scotch *___ __ _________ *   _examination oeriods bv the students of Carneeie Institute of Tei.ii-it did for the 59 production. The SOme other stage. Moving Scotch :  _ fnr a n^pccfnl examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Te_n-lobbv, handsomely created by a  -----lwo ls necessaiT Ior d successiui n lC
group of junior architects was an Soda to a professional theatproduction, and that co-operation nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
t . .. . T,rical atmosphere would require j was evident in this show< Recog_
51I tenaohTur?d iT l?' ' nition of the orchestra should also&  I port the Scotch n Soda club has . given. While is it not possible 'Wade Biand his crew did a received from the alumni, me 1 i_, . , . ,. ,, . | me diuiniii, me mention every member,superb 30b in converting the court student body, and the admimstraaDDreciat;on and aoolause go to 
to an auditorium. Please realize, | Uon in reeent years. I L*? 
Mr. Spelvin, that it would be
Free Cigarettes
The author of any Letter to 
the Editor published in the 
Tartan will receive a free 
carton of Marlboro cigarettes. 
This service has been made 
possible through Harry Desiletes, Techs Marlboro repre
sentative.
, years. | each one> Both music and lyric
Your challenge on this account and accompaniment complementi is certainly valid, Mr. Spelvin; | ed the dialogue and contributed 
i but without a program that would greatly to the continuity and suc! rally the support of all Carnegie cess of the show, 
j Tech, it is a mere figment of your Scotch n Soda depends upon 
imagination. ; each department for its success.
There seems to be little doubt May it have continued success 
j in your mind that SnS can be: with co-operation from the entire 
I come the countrys leading musij school, whether it be through acI cal comedy organization, with a, tive participation or moral supnew location. port. It is a student group of
Scotch Soda Club j which Carnegie Tech can be proud 
Bill Pence, j to say, Its ours.
Editor's Note: Granted. G.BJS.' Rena Siegel
Editor .................................................................................................Jeremiah I). Sullivan
Associate Editor .................................................... .................................. Frank J. Baloh
Business Manager ........................................................-......................... Lee Adlesberg
News Editor .................................................................................. ..........Jan Notopoulos
Assistant News Editor .................................................................................... lhil James
Sports Editor ..............................................................................................Chuck V<dvarka
Copy Editor .............................................................................................. Jack (ashman
Layout Editor ................................................................................................ Jim Whalen
Feature EditorRena Siegel, Photography EditorFred Beste,
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager
Miles Holander, SecretaryAudry Dolan, Circulation ManagerJohn
Mowery.
News StaffMike Brunt,. Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Bill Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob 
Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira Shapiro, Georgia White, 
Lois Wolfe.
Sports StaffBob Walker, Richard Szuch, Circulation StaffBob 
Miller, TypistPatti Michael.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson, Mary Ann Melton, Janis Geisler.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented lor national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Remington's first again...with the 
only electric shaver that A:
MOVE 
CONTROL 
PANEL: *
uggiies-Relays
[continued from page 1] 
pie crowding into the street and 
blocking the judgeS view of the 
start caused the error in timing.
Rerun
The other buggy, Andy II, was 
raced again, running against time 
alone, and despite the fact that 
f e ATO team had already pushed 
once, the buggy finished in a time 
of 2:29.5 minutes, the best time of 
the day. Unfortunately, Andy II 
was disqualified because of the 
judges decision concerning pacers 
under Rule 15 of the sweepstakes 
regulations.
This year Alpha Tau Omega 
came out on top with first place 
jn buggy design. Phi Kappa Theta 
received second place.
f'ive Institutions 
To Participate In 
Pgh. Convocation
The citys five institutions of 
higher learning will underscore 
the role of education in the de
velopment of Pittsburgh with a 
special Bicentennial Convocation, 
JFuesday morning, May 12, in the 
%yria Mosque.
Carnegie Tech will join Chat
ham College, Duquesne Univers
ity, Mount Mercy College, and 
the University of Pittsburgh in 
awarding honorary degrees to five 
distinguished local and national 
figures.
Procession
Some 600 faculty members from 
the five institutions will walk in 
-^procession in full academic re~galia from Schenley Park in the 
vicinity of Carnegie Institute to 
Syria Mosque. Classes at the 
schools will be dismissed for at 
least part of the morning to per
mit faculty members and students 
to attend the ceremonies.
Carnegie Tech will bestow an 
honorary degree upon Dr. Arthur 
B. Van Buskirk, Vice-President 
and Governor, T. Mellon and 
i^ons. Chatham will honor Martha 
Graham, outstanding exponent of 
contemporary dance; Duquesne 
will present a degree to Arch
bishop John J. Dearden of De
troit; Mount Mercy will honor 
Bishop John J. Wright; and Pitt 
will honor Governor David L. 
Lawrence.
Speaker
The speaker at the unique con
vocation will be the noted histor/nan, Henry Steele Coitimager.
' The academic procession will 
start at 10:15 and the convocation 
ceremonies will commence as soon 
as the members of the party are 
seated in Syria Mosque.
The Bicentennial Convocation 
marks the first time the five Pitts 
burgh colleges and universities 
have joined together for such a 
purpose. The meeting is sponsor
ed by the Bicentennial Education 
^^ommittee made up of the heads 
of the five schools. Dr. Edward 
F. Schatz, assistant dean of the 
college of engineering and science, 
is representing Tech in the arrangements^
[continued from page 1] 
Pakan threw 80', the chemical en
gineering dept, team of Joe Marchello and Jim Kaiser threw 78', 
and the mechanical engineering 
dept, team of Eber W. Gaylord 
and William F. Hughes threw 57'.
Failures
The chemistry dept, team of 
Ismael Almdova-Garcia and Eu
gene Barnes, the electrical en
gineering dept, team of Robert 
Detig and Robert Snelsire, and 
the psychology dept, team of Lee 
W. Gregg and B. von Haller were 
not able to make successful throws 
in spite of their efforts which only 
resulted in covering spectators, 
contestants, and the lawn with 
fresh eggs.
Following the egg throw, so
rority teams took part in Western-style relay races in which the 
girls made some type of steal. 
The first was a wagon chase which 
involved a wagon ride, a water 
gun, and a cowboy-like mask.
The next race, also a race 
against time, catch the robber, 
made use of bags of gold, noisemakers, and blindfolds. The last 
race, lasso the animal, was a 
game of skill which involved 
throwing a hula-hoop over a 
stuffed animal about ten feet 
away.
Winner
The trophy was . won by Kappa 
Kappa Gamma. The winning
teams captain was Barbie Goetz. 
An honorable mention was award
ed to the Tri Delt team which 
was coached by Fran Teviotdale. 
The scoring was done on a point 
system with judging and timing 
done by Dean Rice, Dr. Morgan, 
Dr. Gregg, and Mr. Eskey.
Awards
[continued from page 1] 
the highest accumulative womens i 
factor in the junior class.
Pi Delta Epsilon, the national 
publications honorary, presented a 
Medal of Merit to Carol Sooby 
of the Tartan and Dick Clem of 
the Thistle for contributing the 
most for the advancement of 
journalism on the campus .Judith 
Anderson made the awards.
The H&SS essay contest award 
was presented to Edward Blum 
by Dr. Paul Ward. The award 
was $150.
George Paris honored Dick 
Spohn with the Tartan athletic 
award.
The Alfred M. Cerrito Award 
was given to the outstanding var
sity basketball player, Andrew 
Komer, by Edward MacEwen.
Lastly, Judy Anderson present
ed WRITE awards to Louise. 
Franie for her Scot article, Lou 
Pondy for his Tartan article, and 
to Ed Blum for his Technical 
article.
COLLEGE WOMEN
.STUDENTS HMD GRADUATES
Duff's 8-Week Shorthand Course
With the Famous, Easy-to-Learn
Spzedwriting 
for Lecture Notesfor Better fobs
CLASSES BEGIN 
Day School: June 8, July 6, Aug. 3 
Evening School: 
June 2, June 23, July 14, Aug. 4
For further information telephone Mrs. Alice Cecere, 
ATIantic 1-5386 or send coupon
DUFFS
BUSINESS INSTITUTE
Clark Building, 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Fa.
Air-Conditioned Classrooms
WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION FOLDER *
Including Sample Shorthand Lesson
NAME
ADDRESS
Mail to DUFF'S BUSINESS INSTITUTE 
Clark Building, 717 Liberty Ave., Fittsl.ur-h *2, Pa.
egho SHEEDY,* hair expert, says: 
"Quack down on that messy hair with 
Wildroot Cream-Oil.
/ 131 So. Harris HiU Rd., WUliamnith. N. T.
Just a little bit 
o-t Wildroot
and...WOW
BETWEEN THESE SETTINGS 
HE THE SOLUTIONS TO 
EVERY SHAVING PROBLEM 
IN THE WORLD I
LEFT TO LOWER Roller Combs as beard gets tougher, grows longer; 
and to trim sideburns.
RIGHT TO RAISE Roller 
Combs when skin feels more tender, and for teen-ags skin.
UNLIMITED SETTINGSIn between for every mans personal shav
ing needs.
Roll-A-Matic shaving obsoletes them all! A single fab
ulous shaver now adjusts to solve every shaving problem 
from your first shave on, all through life  no matter how 
your beard or skin may change.
Secrets in Remington's exclusive Roller Combs. They
made Remington Americas biggest selling shaver  roll 
skin down, comb whiskers up to reach your Hidden 
Beard: whisker bases below ordinary shaving level.
Now, they adjust, fit any face while 6 diamond-honed 
cutters in the largest live shaving area of all give you 
faster, closer shaves that last hours longer. So get the 
only shaver that adjusts to you all your lifeRemington's 
Roll-A-Matic Shaver. At your campus Remington dealer, 
or any jewelry, drug, department or appliance store.
NEW ADJUSTABLE
REMINGTON. ROLL-A-MATIC
ELECTRIC SHAVER Prodvtf of
ver 49% wore CACRN ftMtiaft tM* mb* totr* *tror
jSkarar, of Sf*ny Rond Corporation, ttidfeport t. Connci><*
Wekk TV No. I how ' GvnU" M ito (K TV
-----------------
Wednesday, May 6, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPa*e 

---------------------------------------------------

r*et fiCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday. May 6. 195
COLUMBIA STEREOPHONIC 
HI-FI SETS
Big Stereo" styled ... 
engineered for the most 
exacting taste.
LIGHT UP AND LIVE IT UP! 3 great cigarettes offer you 627 chances to win! 
So pick your pack-save the six wrappers-and get going! Its crossword puzzle fun and real 
smoking pleasure all the way! v
ENTER OFTEN-HAVE FUNAND WIN! But think carefully! This puzzle is not as easy as it looks. At 
first the DOWN and ACROSS clues may appear simple. There may appear to be more than one right 
answer. For example, the clue might read: Many a coed will be given her best dates P--N. Either T* 
(PIN) or E (PEN) would seem to fit. But only one answer is apt and logical as decided by the judging staff, 
and therefore correct. Read the rules carefully. ENTER AS OFTEN AS YOU WISH. Good luck!
EMERSON TRANSISTOR 
RADIOS
Packed with power... 
plays 1500 hrs. on 1 set 
of batteries
500 FOURTH PRIZES
RULES-PLEASE READ CAREFULLY
1. The College Puzzle Contest is open to college 
students and college faculty members except em
ployees and their immediate families of Liggett 
& Myers and its advertising agencies.
2. Fill in all missing letters . .. print clearly. Use 
of obsolete, archaic, variant or foreign words 
prohibited. After you have completed the puzzle, 
send it along with six empty package wrappers 
of the same brand from L&M, Chesterfield or 
Oasis cigarettes (or one reasonable hand-drawn 
facsimile of a complete package wrapper of any 
one of the three brands) to: Liggett & Myers, 
P. O. Box 271, New York 46, N. Y. Enter as 
often as you wish, but be sure to enclose six 
package wrappers (or a facsimile) with each 
entry. Illegible entries will not be considered.
3. Entries must be postmarked by midnight, 
Friday, May 29,1959 and received by midnight, 
Friday, June 5, 1959.
4. Entries will be judged by the Bruce-Richards 
Corporation, an independent judging organiza
tion, on the basis of logic and aptness of thought 
of solutions. In the event of ties, contestants will 
be required to complete in 25 words or less the 
following statement: My favorite cigarette is
(Chesterfield) (L&M) or (Oasis) because..........
Entries will be judged on originality, aptness of 
thought and interest by the Bruce-Richards 
Corporation. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in event of final ties. Illegible entries will not be 
considered. By entering all entrants agree that 
the decision of the judges shall be final and 
binding.
5. Solutions must be the original work of the 
contestants submitting them. All entries become 
the property of Liggett & Myers and none will 
be returned.
S. Winners will be notified by mail as soon as 
possible after completion of the contest.
7. This contest is subject to all Federal, State 
and local laws and regulations..
(-------------HURRY! ENTER NOW! CONTEST CLOSES MAY 29,1959--------------1
I 
I
CLUES ACROSS:
1. These may indicate that a nation is prepared to wage war in the air.6. Some college students.10. When at.................. Light up an Oasis.11. Sinking ship deserter.12. Plural pronoun.13. One expects.................discussions in a sociology class.16. A students careless.................might annoy a short-story instructor.17. Initials of Uruguay and Denmark.18. Germanium (Chem.)19. Nova Scotia (Abbr.)21. It probably would count when you pick a horse to bet on.
22. Sometimes a girl on a date must.................into her pocketbook to helppay the tab. - 
23. The muscle-builders...............may fascinate a poorly developed man.24. Chemical Engineer (Abbr.)26. Campers will probably be.................by a forest fire.
29. When starting a trip, tourists usually look forward to the first..............31. At home. -- ,32. Literate in Arts (Abbr.)33. Familiar for faculty member.35. Associate in Arts (Abbr.)36. One could appear quite harmless at times.37. Reverse the first part of L&M.38. What will soon appear in a bombed-out city.
CLUES DOWN:
1. The beginning and end of pleasure.2. A rural .................can be inviting to a vacationist.
3. Second and third letters of OASIS. *4. When one is.................packed, it could be exasperating to remembera few articles that should be included.5. It would pay to be careful when glass is.................6. Grounds to relax on with a mild CHESTERFIELD.7. Author.................Ambler.8. District Attorney (Abbr.)9. A.................from Paris should please the average woman.12. An inveterate traveler will.................about distant lands.14....................are hard to study.15. Stone, Bronze and Iron.............20. How Mexicans say, Yes.23. All L&M cigarettes are .................high in smoking pleasure.25. May be a decisive factor in winning a horse race.27. Initials of Oglethorpe, Iona, Rutgers and Emerson.28. United Nations Organization (Abbr.)30. Golf mound.32. Colloquial for place where the finest tobaccos are tested for L&M.
33. Poet Laureate (Abbr.)34. Filter ends.35. What Abner might be called.36. Bachelor of Education degree.
PRINT CLEARLY! ENTER AS OFTEN AS YOU WISH
Mail to Liggett & Myers, P. 0 Box 271, New York 46, New York. Be 
sure to attach six empty package wrappers of the same brand (or 
facsimile) from Chesterfield, L&M, or Oasis cigarettes.
ulme
Address.
College----------------------------------------- 
This entry must be postmarked before midnight. May 29,1959, and 
received at P. 0. Box 271, New York 46, New York, by midnight. June 5,1959, '
o Uigett * My* Tobacco Co.
COLLEGE PUZZLE CONTEST
FOR STUDENTS AND FACULTY MEMBERS
2 GRAND PRIZESRambler American! 
Big-car roominess... 
small-car economy... 
tops in performance !
25 SECOND PRIZES:
100 THIRD PRIZES:

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 6, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPare 7
tttt
Play TonightAt Stake
In Softball
This Week
Chuck Vodvarka  Sports Editor
Tartans Lead In 
l^PC Is Reduced
Although the Tartans still lead 
jn the race for the All-Sports 
trophy, Westminster is staging a 
Jate rally and hopes to wrap up 
first place in the West Penn Con
fer enee this week.
The Titans, with teams com
peting in all four spring sports, 
have overcome the small advant
age defending champion Car
lisle Tech took into the final 
third of the season. Tech, with no 
baseball, has only three teams 
compiling points.
With the other six conference 
members too far behind to become 
factors themselves in the final 
standings, Westminsters first 
head-to-head meetings with the 
Tartans this week should decide 
matters.
^Geneva, in third place in the 
derail WPC standings, trails by 
more than 10 points and Grove 
City is a far distant fourth. Duquesne, battling the Titans for the 
league baseball championship, St. 
Francis, St. Vincent and Waynesburg are out of the running..
Golfers Win Again
Carnegie Techs golf team handed the St. Vincent golfers 
a 6-1 defeat over the Holliday Airs course. The win was 
Techs second without a defeat in West Penn golf play.
Fred Heider, Bob Jurick, and John Elliott of Tech shared 
medalist honors with 79 each, seven over par. John Harper 
defeated Jerry Kreuzer for St. Vincents only win. The sum
mary:
Fred Heider <79), T., defeated Bill Dempsey (86), 5 and 3; John Elliott tJ9), T., 
defeated Bob Adams (86), 5 and 3; Jerry Coon (87), T defeated John Iezzi (86), 
5 and 3; John Harper (80), St. V., defeated Jerry Kreuzer (82), 3 and 2; Howard 
Mattes (86), T defeated John OLoughlin (93), 3 and 2; Bob Jurick (79), T., de
feated Bemie Peterson (87), 3 and 1.
English: NEARSIGHTED PROFESSOR
Thinklish translation: This fellow has so
0 many degrees, he looks like a thermom
eter. Hes so myopic, he needs glasses to 
l)\ view things with alarm. Though quite
PQp) the man of letters, the only ones he favors
I are L.S./M.F.T. I take a dim view of
A I other brands, he says. Give me the
* honest taste of a Lucky Strike! We see
^ this chap as a sort of squintellectual (but
remarkably farsighted when it comes 
to cigarettes).
English: VIKING OARSMEN
Newman Club 
Officers Meet
There will be a meeting of the 
new officers and committee chair
men on Sunday, May 10, at 2 p.m. 
in the Cardinal Newman Hall.
Father Nene will continue his 
talks on Ethics of Marriage at 
the Tuesday, May 12, lecture. 
This is in Engineering Hall 1212 
at 12:30.
* FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE. PAINT,
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923HOW TO MAKE *25
Take a wordtelevision, for example. With it, you can make commer
cial TV (sellevision), loud TV (yellevision), bad TV (smellevision) and 
good TV (swellevision). Thats Thinklishand its that easy! Were 
paying $25 for the Thinklish words judged bestyour check is itching 
to go! Send your words to Lucky Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, New 
York. Enclose your name, address, college or university and class.
Get the genuine article
Get the honest taste 
of a LUCKY STRIKE
M*. HALLWAY IN A HAUNTED HOUSE English. STOCK JUDGE
Thinklish
POUND
PoootevmiA
When the student body site 
In class all day, getting numb 
art both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toes with 
NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour 
studying and hep on late 
dates. Safe as coffee and much 
more convenient.525N
Thinklish,
'"""uicoutc,
Thinks HORRIDOR
fcSUUE UUfcWUtt. u. 0
+Note to Prtxy: 
NoDvz mill keep your ^f acuititi alert, too.
Productis <mr middle namt
Carnegie TartanAardvarks Barks

---------------------------------------------------

Pasc 8CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, Mar 6. 1959
No Upsets In Softball
Although rain practically wiped out softball play last week, fourteen teams managed 
to play their games.
Three of the seven games played broke the five-way tie that existed for second place
last week in the Senator league. Now only two teams remain tied for that spot.
Sigma Nu was the first to break * 
the ice when they overcame Citwent 3 for 3 to lead the Delts to
corns lead to win, 11-6. The fea
tures of SNs attack were three 
hits by Wagner, and home runs 
by Ritzke and Stevenson. Matt 
Bolkavic had three hits for Citcom.
ATO Over TKX
ATO followed this game with 
a win over TKN to send the
victory.
In the final game of the week, 
the Tau Delts pounded out 22 
hits to massacre TX, 19-4. Katz 
led the Tau Delts with his four 
hits, one of which was a home 
run. Rothenberg, Wolf son, Scullary, and Gustafson each collected 
3 hits apiece for the Tau Delts.
league into a three-way tie for The first two of this group each
first place. Tom Huff led the ATO 
attack by going 3 for 3 and hit
ting a home run. The score was 
7-2.
The following day, Reber pitch
ed SAE back into undisputed first 
place by scattering five hits among 
the Citcom batters. Charley Nel
son led the SAE attack with 2 
home runs, 5 RBIs, and 3 hits for 
a good days work. Whitey Muel
ler also homered for SAE, while 
Bob Haggart and Gerry Wright 
each collected three hits apiece. 
John Organischak homered for 
Citcom in the 11-1 losing cause.
Athletic
In a fight to get out of last
battled the Falcons for the full 
seven innings. The 10-7 loss drop
ped the Falcons into the cellar. 
Butch Balika led DU with 3 hits, 
while Bruce Brossius had 3 for 
the Falcons.
The Kappa Sigs kept their hopes 
alive when they defeated the 
Betas on Call Day, 15-7. Had the 
defending champs lost, all hopes j ato 
for repeating as champs would 
have vanished. Jerry Watson sup
plied the power with three hits, 
while Walt Majeski homered for 
the Kappa Sigs.
Yankee
The Delts continued their run
away in the Yankee league as 
they stomped all over the Metals
homered. Nat Miljus and Kachmar each had perfect days at 
the plate for TX in going 3 for 
3, two of Kachmars hits being 
homers.
The schools top twelve hitters 
after last weeks play are:
PlayerABHMRAve.
1. Kachmar.. 3321.000
1. Gray ................. 3311.000
. . 3301.000
4. Beisler ............. 760.857
5. Ogradski. . 540.800
6, Wagner .......... . 960.667
6. Fager .............. . 640.667
8, Gustafson .... .1170.636
8. Lucas .............. .1170.636
10. Greico ............ . 530.600
11. Nelson ............ .1484.571
12. Polansky. . 950.556
The leaguestandingsareas
follows:
Athletic L;ae 
Team W.L.Pet.
PKT ......................... 201.000
GSIA ....................... 101.000
. 201.000
. 22.500
. 12.333
BTP ........................ 02.000
. 02.000
Senator League
TeamW.L.Pet.
SAE ......................... 31.750
ATO ......................... 21.667
. 21.667
TKN ......................... 12.333. 13.250
Met. G. .. .............. 11.500
PKA ........................ 01.000
Yankee League 
Team W.L.Pet.
. 301.000
Vets ................... 101.000
TOP ......................... 21.667
BSR ......................... 11.500
English ................... 11.500. 01.000
Met. Club .............. 0.000
cow w  ncwvMa nwt-*. conrmowT O *** the ooca-ooia ooHnum
Abracadabra
Foolish boy-the best way to make a bottle 
of Coke disappear is to drink it! Yes, 
swallow after swallow, that cold crisp taste is 
so deeply satisfying ... and the lively lift 
is so bright and cheerful the whole day 
seems happier, just like magic. So open 
sesame! Just uncap the bottle and get 
ready for The Pause That Refreshes!
BE REALLY REFRESHED ...HAVE A COKfll
lottfed under authority off Tb* Coca-Cola Company bf
Ql' AKER STATS COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
CtuM Ara. HI 1-1*14
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Wins Swimming Meet
Thursday, April. 16, marked the completion of the Wom
ens Intramural Swimming competition.
The winning team was Kappa Kappa Gamma; second 
place, Delta Delta Delta, and third place, Chi Omega. Indi
vidual results found Sally Gan-4-------------------------------------------------------
ong, KKG placing first, Fran-Tevi 
otdale, DDD, placing second, and 
Trudy Kebe, KKG, placing third.
Results for the individual events
Tartans Down Geneva *
* To Continue Undefeated
The Tartan tennis team extended their record to three 
wins without a defeat in the West Penn Conference by de
feating Geneva 6-3 on Genevas courts. George Gross, Thira
? Suwan, and John Oehler all ex
tended their records in singles 
to three straight wins. Summary:
were as follows:
Individual Events
Endurance swim, o n e-h our 
limit, First Place: Sally Ganong, 
KKG, 140 laps; Second Place: 
Fran Teviotdale, DDD, 128 laps; 
Third Place: Trudy Kebec, KKG, 
114 laps.
Underwater distance swim, 
First Place: Trudy Kebe; Second 
Place: Aime Emmert, Chi Omega; 
Third Place: Fran Teviotdale.
Crawl
Front crawl form competition, 
First Place: Sally Ganong; Second 
Place: Fran Teviotdale.
Back crawl, First Place: Sally 
Ganong; Second Place: Fran Te
viotdale; Third Place: Carol Haas, 
DDD.
Breaststroke or Butterfly stroke,
First Place: Fran Teviotdale; Sec
ond Place: Sally Ganong; Third 
Place: Trudy Kebe.
Relay
Freestyle relay, winning team, 
Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Diving competition, First Place: 
Janet Nee, Independents; Second, 
Barbara Goetz, KKG; Third, Roni 
Nephew, Chi Omega.
Form swimming, First Place: 
Sally Ganong; Second, Fran Te
viotdale; Third, Trudy Kebe.
Thayer. G, defeated Crisman 6-1. 6-4; 
Gross, CT. defeated Aultman, 6-1, 6-1; 
Suwan, CT, defeated Bonnell, 6-4, 11-9; 
Reif, G, defeated Sutherland, 6-4. 6-3; 
Volpe, CT, defeated Alleman, 6-8, 7-5, 
6-4; Oehler, CT, defeated Windham. 4-6, 
6-3. 6-1.
Crisman and Gross defeated Thayer 
and Aultman. 2-6, 6-4, 6-3; Suwan and 
Sutherland defeated Bonnell and Reif, 
3-6. 6-4. 6-3; Alleman and Windham de
feated Stein and Rothenberg. 6-1, 6-1.
Allegheny
After three straight wins 
Tartans tennis team was han 
a 9-0 whitewashing by the visit
ing Allegheny net team. The first 
loss of the year for Tech Was not 
a West Penn Conference match. 
The match was such a dismal one' 
in. that Tech won only two sets 
all afternoon.
Singles-Macky, A, defeated Crissman,
6-1, 6-3; Brock, A, defeated Gross, 6-4, 
4. 6-4; Herron, A, defeated Suwan, 5-7,
7-5; Finnerty, A, defeated Krygowski. 6- 
6-0, 6-0; Timkin, A, defeated Sutherland, 
6-0, 6-0; Smith, A, defeated Volpe, *18-6.
Doubles  Brock and Macky defeated 
Crissman and Krygowski. 3-6. 6-4, 6-3'; 
Herron and Tinkin defeated Suwan and 
Sutherland. 6-2. 6-1:-Finnerty and Smith 
defeated Volpe and Oehler, 6-3, 6-1.
Get WILDR00T 
CREAM-0IL Charlie!
sQuuax it FglfCHr barmaid, says: 
"Smart men choose Wildroot, the 
non-alcoholic hair tonic!"
Just a little bitof Wildroot 
and...WOWi
How Much Does A 
One'Carat Diamond Cost?
^Jlte ~s$nSwer to this 
question is more complicated 
than just a monetary figure. 
One cannot price a diamond 
by size alone. There are over 
20 other factors involved be
sides carat weight. There is 
only one thing all diamonds 
can have in common and that 
is size. Nothing else! ! After 
size, consider Color, Perfec
tion and Cut. There are 7 
colors ranging from top white 
(blue-white) to yellow. There 
are nine degrees of perfec
tion and numerous types of 
flaws. Then remember that 
the polished diamond is man
ufactured and only a properly 
proportioned stone, expertly 
cut, will give the maximum 
brilliance. HOWEVER buying 
a diamond need not be com
plicated.
GLOBE JEWELRY CO. offers^ 
Tech Students expert guidancel j 
in selecting a diamond, as 
well as a selection of the 
finest and latest styles keyed 
to the /tailored taste of young 
women. So take advantage of 
the opportunity of doing 
business with a wholesale 
jewelry firm. Be assured you 
will receive excellent value 
and save a considerable 
amount of money.
INQUIRIES INVITEDTERMS EXTENDED^
GLOBE JEWELRY CO A
1048 FIFTH AVE. CO. 1-7378 PITTSBURGH 19. PA. 
DIAMONDS - WATCHES - JEWELRY
Youre ready for the 
big entrance...with
Oxford
Miniatures
Arrows newest stripes and checks 
put you quietly, but firmly, in the 
best-dressed spotlight. They're so 
crisply and colorfully right with 
your Fall clothes.
And this rich, new oxford weave 
is also available in wash and wear!
Try an Arrow and youll discover 
why college men buy Arrow 4 to I 
over any other brand. $5.00 up. 
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.
first In fashion
