The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946
Sergeant Daehnke 
New ROTC Prof.
The latest addition to Colonel 
Dowlings R.O.T.C. staff is 1st Ser
geant Frederick C. Daehnke, whose 
duties will be instruction in basic 
infantry subjects and supervision of 
the firing range.
His double deck of ribbons tell 
only part of the story of Sergeant 
Daehnkes ten years in the service. 
He was a Marine for four years, 
spending most of his time in China.
Originally from Baltimore, Md., 
the sergeant enlisted in the Marine 
Corps in the summer of 1936, and 
after Parris Island, Quantico, and 
west coast maneuvers, he was sent 
to China for two and a half years.
He divided his time between Tiensin where he was stationed at the 
American Consulate and Peiping. As 
the China-Japanese war started just 
three days before he reached Pei
ping, he had the opportunity to 
stand on the city wall and witness 
the entrance of the Japs.
Sergeant Deahnke came back to 
this country and received his dis
charge in 1940, but after three 
months he re-enlistedthis time in 
the Army. Two years in the coast 
artillery at Ft. Monroe were follow
ed by nineteen months of R.O.T.C., 
later A.S.T.P. instructing at the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh after which he 
transferred to the combat engineers 
and proceeded overseas.
First it was New Guinea and 
islands in the Dutch East Indies. 
Then came the invasion of the Phil
ippines. The Sergeants outfit landed 
on the beach in the Lingayen Gulf 
where they constructed a fighter 
strip and then moved on to Manila. 
He remained in Manila until his 
ninety-two points bought him a 
ticket home and a set of discharge 
papers. However, Sgt. Daehnke re
enlisted and is back in Pittsburgh 
teaching R.O.T.C. again, but this 
time at C.I.T.
Stag Dance Follows 
W&J Basketball Game
A stag dance will be held after 
the basketball game with Washing
ton and Jefferson College Saturday 
night, January 12, 1945. The dance 
will be a juke-box affair held in 
Thistle Hall for which there will be 
no charge.
Alpha Phi Omega, national serv
ice organization, will be in charge 
of refreshments which will be serv
ed in the Black Cat.
This dance is being sponsored by 
Student Council and is one of sev
eral such affairs offered the students 
this year. If the students wish to 
have more of these affairs, it is hop
ed that they will support this dance.
Notice
There will be a meeting of all stu
dents interested in remaining on or 
joining the Tartan staff next se
mester at 5:00 on Friday, January 
11, 1946 in the Tartan office.
Attendance is required at this 
meeting as new policies of the Tar
tan will be explained.
Max aHatutum Heiiani
Floor Boss Gives Up Coaching 
To Work Full-time on Publications
Last Thursday, Max Hannum, 
Carnegies pinch-hitting basketball 
coach of the last 14 years, announced 
his resignation as temporary floor 
boss. The press of other matters 
finally forced him to give up his 
avocation. These past years as man
ager of Bureau of News and Pub
lications and as coach of the basket
ball team he has had a full job 
which did not allow him much time 
for other activities. For a long time, 
rumor has had it that Maxie was 
going to resign, yet everyone was 
a bit surprised at last weeks devel
opment.
Hannum has been at Tech since 
1929 when he took the position of 
manager of sports news. Before that 
he worked on the Pittsburgh Press 
and officiated at many basketball 
games in the city. Although Mr. 
Hannum was never formally train
ed for the position as coach, his in
tense interest in the game and his 
way of working with the boys made 
him a coach of whom any school 
could boast. Max will miss working 
with the boys, but he still has a per
sonal interest in the teaman interMax Hannum
est which is increased by the fact 
that his son Gene is one of the big 
five.
Of course everyone will miss Max 
as coach, but hes still with us as 
head of the Bureau of News and 
guiding light of publications.
IRC Sponsors Assembly; 
Holds Dinner Discussion
Today at eleven oclock in the 
Little Theater Mrs. Denise M. Close 
will speak on There is Something 
New in France. The assembly is 
sponsored by the International Re
lations Club.
Mrs. Close recently returned from 
France where she has been an inter
preter between France and America 
since early 1944. She also conducted 
inquiries in German concentration 
camps.
Mrs. Close was an officer in the 
French WAVES and at the request 
of Admiral Auboyneau she was at
tacked to the staff of General Chaban-Dalmas. In cooperation with 
many public figures she organized a 
post-war series of discussions and 
debates in Paris in order to help 
Americans arrive at better mutual 
understandings with the French.
She studied at the University of 
Montpellier with later study at Radcliffe in America. In 1939 and 40 she 
was a lecutrer at Kings College, 
London.
She will speak frankly of her ob
servation regarding the new leader
ship in France, and the political and 
social developments since liberation.
The International Relations Club 
will also hold a dinner meeting on 
Wednesday, January 9, at 5 oclock 
at the Union. The dinner will fea
ture spaghetti a la Mrs. Chapman, 
supported by Pierre Agrains French 
onion soup and international side 
dishes. After dinner Prof. James 
will speak, on a pertinent topic.
The recent activities of the IRC 
have included weekly discussions 
led by students from South America, 
France, Spain, Russia, Mexico, and 
China, on the politics of their vari^ 
ous countries.
Newman Club Features 
Mixer Social on Friday; 
Plans Semi-Formal Dance
The Newman Club, an organiza
tion consisting of Catholic students 
from the five local colleges, held a 
mixer social in Thistle Hall Friday, 
January 4. A jukebox provided the 
music for this very successful affair. 
This Newman Club dance has had 
the best attendance of any of their 
dances this year. Among those pres
ent were many returned veterans 
and servicemen home on furlough 
who had been active members of the 
Newman Club.
The decorations added to the 
sparkle and gaiety of the evening. 
One striking decoration was the mir
rored ball which was suspended 
from the ceiling. This ball sent col
ored reflections throughout the dim
ly lighted room.
The Newman Club is holding a 
date social on Saturday, January 18. 
It is to be a semi-formal dance and 
will be held in the Imperial Room 
of the Webster Hall Hotel. The 
music for this affair will be provided 
by that popular orchestra leader, 
Bill Leroy. The price of admission 
will be $2.40. The tickets may be 
bought from Jane Grim, Steve 
Gress, Camille McCullough, or Bob 
Straka.
Womens Athletic Assn 
Plans Swimming Party
Hey boys. Here is your chance to 
see the Bathing Beauties of C. I. T. 
in action! The Womens Athletic 
Association is sponsoring an all
school swimming party Thursday, 
from 7-9. The partys free, kids  
refreshments and everything. This 
is one party guaranteed not to be 
dry.
Cheerleaders and Band 
Will Lead Techites 
In Beat Pitt" Rallyf
Tartan Cheering Section 
Gets Hep Before Game
Hoy long has it been since you 
last heard a resounding beat Pitt? 
How long ago has it been since your 
blood thrilled feverishly to the shrill 
notes of the bagpipe, in anticipation 
of a last-ditch struggle with our 
vaunted foes from the swaying 
spire? Well, tune up your blood 
pressure and turn out for the pre
game pep rally where loyal Skibos 
will sharpen their claymores and 
practice the yells which will fright
en the blue-and-gold to ignominious 
defeat.
The Pep Rally will be held this 
coming Wednesday evening, Janu
ary 9 at about 7:30 in Thistle Hall 
with the Kilties and cheerleaders to 
key it up.
Remember, this will definitely be 
a blood game. Blood will flow like 
borsht, and after the stirring pep-up 
the assembled homocidials will 
swarm across the cut with shouts 
and flaming flambeaus, and troop 
into the special reserved sections at 
the Pitt stadium. The administra
tion requests that no pistols or sub
machine guns be brought as Pitt stu
dents are also U. S. citizens. Brass 
knuckles will be acceptable though.
Interfraternity Plans 
Closed Semi-Formal
The old IF still aint what it 
used to be, but Techs first post-war 
fraternal blow-out is well on the 
way back to normalcy. The Inter
fraternity Council has announced 
that the first dance of the new year 
will feature the music of Clyde 
Knight in the Imperial Room of 
Webster Hall this Friday, January 
11, from nine to one.
The main attraction will be the 
breakfasts held in the individual 
fraternity houses after the dance. 
For the dorm girls it will be a night 
of special privilege with Dean Yon 
holding the doors open until three 
in the morning. The advisors and 
their wives have been asked to be 
the chaperones for the dance and 
breakfasts.
The Council added a new twist to 
the traditionally formal dance by 
prefixing the word semi and out
lawing flowers of all kinds, shapes, 
and sizes.
The dance is open only to mem
bers of the fraternities and is financ
ed through IF. There is only one 
drawbackthe size of the ballroom 
makes it impossible to arrange ta
bles and chairs in cabaret style.
Scholarship Applications
Applications for upperclass schol
arships for the Spring Semester 
should be filed in the office of the 
Dean of Students on or before Jan
uary 18, 1946.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946
Ztfotosi'l A>unchcU/i
The Major Maladjustment
We are in a very horrible humor this week. We are not even slightly 
happy despite the fact that the spring breezes are blowing and the P & Ds 
on the staff are hanging out the windows memorizing pretty pink and 
blue storms. We are mad, not angry, mad at the administration twice. Both 
of our rages are hang-overs from the last few weeks before Christmas.
The Day After the Night Before
In the first place we think they were very stinky about the day after 
New Years. Practically every one of the faculty members with whom 
the question of an extra day of vacation was discussed stated individually 
that he was in favor of the extension. Every single student who could fight 
his way through the crowd around the Council members signed at least 
one petition. Yet the Executive Board refused to pass the measure. We 
realize that the Board is in a sense the governing body of the policy of 
the school, but we were under the impression that we were being governed 
democratically. We have heard all the arguments about short semesters and 
accelerated programs, and the objectives of an educational institution; but 
we still feel that the Administration acted unfairly when they refused to 
allow the Techites to have their hangovers and post-holiday funks at home 
instead of on trains rocking across the nation and in the halls of C.I.T.
Forty Day Fasts
The holiday disappointment is obviously now a dead issue. There isnt 
a thing the administration can do now to remedy the fact that we got up 
at 7:00 a. m. last Wednesday morning. But there are going to be quite a 
few more dead Government Issues and civilians too if something isnt done 
soon about our other little pre-holiday gripe. Not too long ago we told a 
tale of woe in this column about the unfair treatment the dorm boys have 
been receiving in the Skibo eatery. We are very bitter about the whole 
thing because the administration still has done nothing whatsoever about 
the situation. We feel now as we did before Christmas that if the Adminis
tration is willing to cooperate, something can be done to alleviate the boys 
financial difficulties. The Administration states that they cannot feed the 
boys in the Inn between five and six before the girls eat because there 
would not be time to clear away their dishes. They say that feeding them 
in Skibo would cause too much confusion. We are positive, however, that 
some system can be worked out whereby the boys can be taken care of in 
the Beanery. The Administration is quite correct in stating that they will 
probably lose more money in Skibo at first but this loss can very easily 
be recouped next year when the enrollment is larger. Even if Commons 
does lose money we feel as we did before Christmas that the men should 
not be rquired to bear an unequal share of the loss.
So They Finally Starved To Death
The high prices at Skibo are aggravating the late allotment check 
problem of the veterans. It is not an exaggeration to state that many of the 
vets eat only one meal a day for as long as a week or more while they are 
waiting for late checks. We believe that since the school does not feel 
that it wants to make eating cheaper for the veterans and for the civilians 
it should at least make short term loans available for the boys who just 
cant make their checks stretch over the extended time. After all semi
starvation will certainly not aid the veterans in becoming the superior 
engineers Carnegie is so proud to release into the industrial world.
We feel that Carnegies attitude towards the veterans in this particular 
case compares unfavorably with that of other college administrations.
Horchids to Hannum
Those sad and dejected characters you see roaming around the campus 
this week are Maxie Hannums boys. Theyre unhappy as you already know 
because Max has turned over his temporary coaching job to Red 
Silverman. The boys will really miss him, for as one of them said, Hes 
a mighty fine fella and a good coach and we all hated to see him go. Max 
has done a wonderful job all these years and has succeeded in doing at 
least two things at once and is doing them both well. We on publications 
know just what the boys on future teams will be missing, for Maxie is 
one of our favorite people and we cant help gloating a little because now 
well be able to see more of him ourselves.
In behalf of the whole school we want to thank Max for the years of 
hard work he has put in pinch hitting to keep our basketball team definitely 
alive, and we want to wish Red luck in his new job.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MPMHNTIO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISTOIO BY
National Advertising Service, Inc. After Office Hours Call
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ..............................SC. 6519
420 Madison ave. new York. h.y. Business Manager.......................EM. 9424
Cmicaco C miCcia o Sin FurSrC C San Fuarcisco 
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Aet of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ... ........................................................................................... ....................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ................................. .................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor ................................................................................................... Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Assistant Managing Editor ......................................................................................... Boo Girts
Assistant News Editor ....................................................................................... Ben Schwartz
Copy Editor ............................................................................................................. Bob Teasdale
Drama Dept Presents 
Shakespearean Play
The drama department will pre
sent the first performance of As 
You Like It, the final play of the 
semester, at-a Saturday matinee 
2:30 p.m. on January 12. The play 
will run for one week and perform
ances will be given at 8:30 p.m. each 
evening including Saturday. This 
will be the last play directed by B. 
Iden Payne.
The main characters in the first 
and second casts of As You Like It 
are: Bill Thunhurst, Joan Bower, 
Mary Laura Wood, Ray Boyle, Jerry 
Gedd, Rhoda Reig, Parker Meyers, 
Barbara Schupp, Nancy Lee, Marylin Bloom, and Lois Eicher.
For the first time in a number of 
years the drama department is not 
doing its annual Shakespearean play 
on the usual Elizabethan type stage. 
In previous years the stage has al
most been an exact replica of the 
stage Shakespeare used. This year 
an attempt has been made to create 
an semi-realistic effect by the use 
of painted drops and the construc
tion of the Forest of Arden.
Social Calendar
Scheduled social events for the 
remainder of the school year are as 
follows:
January 11  Interfraternity Dance 
Semi formal and closed. 
January 12  Washington and Jef
ferson vs. Tech. Stag dance after 
the game.
February 9Geneva vs. TechStag 
dance.
February 15  Interhonorary AllSchool DanceInformal.
February 22  Freshman mixer  
stag.
February 23Mortar Board Dance. 
March 2  Case vs. Tech  Stag 
Dance.
Student Council
Meeting on December 16. 1945.
The social calendar has been add
ed to by the approval of an AllSchool Swimming Party at the pool 
on Thursday night, January 10, from 
7:00 until 10:00. The party is spon
sored by the Womens Athletic Asso
ciation and is free of charge.
ODK was given permission to 
take charge of all arrangements for 
Spring Carnival.
Student Council approved the 
election of new members to the Tar
tan editorial board as submitted by 
Publications Committee. (Story ap
peared in December 18 issue of Tar
tan.)
In clarifying the policy on which 
organizations are to receive all
school keys and which must give in
dividual keys the following classi
fication was made: Those to receive 
all-school keys include Y cabinet, 
CWCA, Tartan, Thistle, Scottie, 
Technical, Handbook, Mens and 
Womens Glee Clubs. Others, which 
are to receive individual keys in
clude: Womens Guild, Chapel
Choir, Interhonorary Council, Inter
fraternity, Panhellenic Council, 
Council, Tecvets, Radio Club, Mens 
and Womens Dorm Councils, 
MMCC Senate, Womens Athletic 
Association, International Relations 
Club, Scimitar, and Delta Skull. De
cisions on keys for Spring Carnival 
Committee and Arts Ball Society 
have been postponed pending furth
er investigation.
March 9West Virginia vs. Tech
Stag Dance.
March 16Cwens Soph Hop.
March 23Arts Ball.
March 30Interhonorary Bazaar. 
April 13Tecvet Easter Party.
April 27Greek Sing and Swing
closed.
May 3 and 4Spring Carnival.
May 24Senior Ball.
May 26Commencement.
VALLEY DAIRY CO.
BRandywine 2150
QUALITY MILK 
CREAM 
DAIRY PRODUCTS
Homogenized Milk - Ice Cream
66Health Is Your Greatest Asset

---------------------------------------------------

M. H. Detrick Co.
FURNACES
Installed
Repaired
Cleaned
Pipe and Fittings 
Gas - Coal - Air Conditioning
Oliver Boulevard ATlantic 1477
TUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946 THE CARNEGIE TARTANTHISTLE QUEENS
Carroll Henson
Eleanor York
Jean Garland
Pat Werner
Able Judges Choose 
Six Thistle Queens
At a special assembly held in the 
Little Theater on Thursday, Decem
ber 21, the six girls who will be this 
years Thistle Queens were chosen 
by a group of distinguished judges. 
Among the judges was our own 
Audrey Botkin Stratton, a graduate 
of the drama school.
Mr. Dawes very ably acted as 
master of ceremonies. Each girl was 
asked a few very tricky questions 
in order that the judges could get 
a bit of an insight into each contest
ants personality. Those chosen were 
Scotty Atkinson, Anne Sweeney, 
Pat Werner, Jean Garland, Carroll 
Henson, and Eleanor York.
When the six judges left the Lit
tle Theater to decide upon the fu
ture queens, songs were sung and 
the organ was played.
The final decision was given, on 
the request of Mr. Dawes, by none 
other than Coach Max Hannum, 
who was also one of the judges. All 
that remains now is to wait patient
ly until the pictures of these six 
luscious femmes appear in the This
tle.
Institute Purchases 
Rosenbergs Painting
Scotty Atkinson
THi WORLDS MOST HONORED WATCH
The Carnegie Institute has recent
ly purchased Samuel Rosenbergs 
painting Israel for their perma
nent collection. The painting, a rich
ly colored oil on masonite typical 
of Rosenbergs later work, won first 
honorable mention in the 1945 Exhi
bition of Painting in the United 
States. Mr. Rosenberg, a well-known 
Pittsburgh artist and graduate of 
Carnegie Tech, teaches oil work to 
upperclassmen in the painting and 
design department. The honor be
stowed upon this work when it was 
selected is not the first time that 
artist Rosenberg has been recogniz
ed for his achievements in the art 
world; in 1935, he won the Carnegie 
Prize, and in 1936, the Associated 
Artists first prize. Last year he held 
a one-man show in New York.
Director Jones Makes 
Short Lecture Tour
Webster N. Jones, director of the 
College of Engineers and Science, 
delivered the address at the Christ
mas meeting of the Detroit Rubber 
and Plastic Group in Detroit on Fri
day evening, December 14. His sub
ject was Engineering Tomorrow. 
Dr. Jones continued his tour to ad
dress a meeting of the Chicago 
Alumni Clan of Carnegie Tech on 
Monday evening, December 17.
Anne Sweeney
Playhouse Presents 
Comedy on Manners
The Pittsburgh Playhouse pre
sents the satirical comedy Fashion 
as its final production of 1945. The 
play is a revival of a one time smash 
hit in New York. Light and gay, the 
story deals with a social climber 
who uses devious methods to crash 
New York society. In a stumbling 
and extremely humorous manner 
she finally attains the position of 
Queen of the Social Set. The addi
tion of music adds a colorful note 
to the production, which may be 
seen at the theater on Craft Ave
nue until January 18. This current 
offering of the Playhouse is almost 
guaranteed to provide a pleasant 
evening of entertainment.
Scottie Notice
All contributions for the February 
issue of the Scottie will be accepted 
at a meeting of the Scottie Staff at 
5:00 on Friday in Carnegie Union.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946
(In which the End Man looks for
ward to Easter vacation.)
Pittsburgh Round-Up: At the
Syria Mosque, on January 26, will 
be Jascha Heifetz. The Ballet Russe 
de Monte Carlo will be at the 
Mosque on January 31, with Alex
andra Danilova and Frederic Frank
lin. At the Nixon this week will be 
Geraldine Fitzgerald and John How
ard in Portrait in Black. You 
Touched Me!, with Edmund 
Gwenn, will be at the Nixon the 
week of January 14. The week of 
January 21, the Nixon will have 
Jean Arthur in Born Yesterday. 
Fashion is at the Playhouse. As 
You Like It will be at the Little 
Theatre, here at Tech, for the rest 
of the week. Next week-end, Fritz 
Reiner will conduct the Pittsburgh 
Symphony in a Stravinsky-Strauss 
program with Lily Djanel and Her
bert Janssen. The Art Cinema has 
that excellent British picture, The 
Adventures of ColonelBlimp 
which you must see. And finallyat 
long lastThe Lost Week-end is 
coming to Loews Penn.
Four Shouts to the Wind Depart
ment: Shout One is for Dark of the 
Moon at the Nixon last week. Sat
urday night was certainly Tech 
night! Shout Two is for the last is
sue of the Scottie and for the 
Scottie staff  who knock them
selves out getting out issues that 
make other schools humor maga
zines look pretty sad. Shout Three is 
for the new sound system in the 
Harris Theatre, which is quite an 
improvement over any of the other 
theatres. Shout Four is for the co
operation shown at the Sno Ball; 
corsages were about the only thing 
NOT present.
Four Burps to the Breeze Depart
ment: Burp One is for the people
who always criticize both the TAR
TAN and the SCOTTIE. Compared 
with other school papersour pub
lications are so far superior that 
there is almost no comparison. 
(Dont let him kid you, C. H.). Burp 
Two is for the Executive Board for 
having classes the day after New 
Years; the thought of the hundreds 
of people who signed the Student 
Councils petitions makes me want 
to upchuck. Burp Three is for 
Leave Her To Heaven which 
wasnt worth the time. Burp Four 
is for the waitresses at Angelos who 
should all live BUT so long.
Carnegie Techiana 1946: The gen
eral opinion is that every one is a 
lot more tired after vacation than 
they were before . . . People are 
singing Let It Snow and I Cant 
Begin To Tell You and I know at 
least three hundred people who get 
violently ill every time the Skibo
juke box plays Hubba Hubba . . . 
Tech, in general, still hasnt for
gotten Alicia Skirpans comment: 
Whats your major maladjust
ment? and I dont think they ever 
will . . . People are reading The 
Gauntlet and Brideshead Revisit
ed or if theyre notthey should 
. . . Sophie Tucker has a new Vic
tor album that is worth listening to 
. . . Iris Hilton has a wonderful 
remedy concerning how to overcome 
self consciousness and shed just 
love to tell you about it . . . More 
and more people have engagement 
rings; honestly youd think Mar
riage Relations was a required 
course.
Dead Pan on the Menial Bench 
Department: Sign on the Beta
House bulletin boardAnn phoned 
in regard to nothing important
. . . There are those who would 
swear that during the last mayorial 
campaign, that man Lawrence drap
ed American flags all over his pic
tures so that people couldnt hiss 
. . . Heard in Skibo: That boy has 
such big ideas that he doesnt both
er to count sheep when* he cant 
sleephe counts elephants! . . . 
Miss Ruth (Who Loves To See Her 
Name In Print) Guberman wrote at 
the bottom of her Theatre Lit exam: 
Surely the Lord moves in myster
ious ways. . . . The Chicago 
Tribune came out with a master
piece the other day when it said: 
Autograph hunters have made it 
necessary for movie stars to le,arn 
to write. . . . And this sent me too 
the chief of the poultry section of 
the Institute of American Poultry 
Industries remarked in a column in 
their annual bulletin that We are
trying to get Mrs. Truman to speak 
to us on Eggs in the White House 
next year. . . . Have you heard 
about the cat who ate the cheese and 
breathed down the rat hole with 
baited breath? . . . Definition of 
pedestrians: Parents whose children 
are home for the holidays . . . Com
ment a la Carnegie: The weathers 
so changeableone day its hot and 
the next day its cold. One doesnt 
know what to pawn ... A Squir
rel Hill resident found a member of
the family who had preceded her 
into the house looking puzzled over 
a note he had found pushed under 
the kitchen door. I dont know why 
I should, he said. Should what? 
she asked. He handed her the note 
which read ,Dress in broom closet. 
Closing Up Shop Department: 
Next week, the column will plagarize the Harvard Lampoon and 
write nastily about people and 
things. Look for us next week  
were going to outdo ourselves . . .
SAMUEL McKNIGHT I 
HARDWARE CO.
Hardware, Paint, Glass,
Tools, Garden Supplies 
Floor Sanders  Rented 
Pipe and Pipe Fittings 
Plumbing Supplies, Ladders
NORTH SIDE STORE
225 Federal St. FAirfax 0195
BELLEVUE STORE
529 Lincoln Ave. Linden 5290 |

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5TECH SPORTS
Hannum Resigns 
As Tartan Coach
Its happened! Der Maxie has 
resigned. After 14 years as head 
coach of the Tartan basketball team 
on a so-called temporary basis, 
Coach has asked that he be relieved 
because of the pressing work of his 
department which for those who 
have not been keeping up with ac
tivities on campus is The Depart
ment of Publicity and News.
It will seem strange not to have 
Maxie hopping up in rage as the 
referee calls a foul one on his 
boys. His friendly feud with Doc 
Carlson of the Tower across the 
street will be missing when the Tar
tans tangle with the Panther this 
year. In former years one of the 
major treats of the basketball sea
son was to watch the two mentors 
ranting at the referees. However 
this heckling on the part of Maxie 
was one of those things which came 
to be expected on the part of the 
spectators, and if it was not forth
coming everyone had the feeling 
that Maxie was sick. He was well 
liked by everyone (even the ref
erees, for they knew Maxie was all 
out for Tech, and often the refs 
could be seen laughing at the situa
tions), and was practically a tradi
tion on campus. Max will be missed 
by all, for the vigor with which he 
has entered into coaching the team 
is seldom found in any school. He 
was all out for Tech, and though he 
will no longer be sitting on the 
bench, the team will know that their 
most rabid rooter is behind them T 
Considering the fact that Coach 
Hannum perennially had a non-subsidized team to field, one cannot but 
be proud of the fact that in 1936 and 
1939 he was able to field a team 
which copped the Eastern Cham
pionship.
George Red Silverman, former 
Tech star, and coach of the fresh
man team after his graduation, has 
been appointed to succeed Coach 
Hannum. He starred at Tech in 1931- 
1934. He became coach at North Fay
ette High School after leaving Tech. 
He later became an instructor at the 
Naval Technical School in Jackson
ville, Florida. He has just been re
leased from the army having enter
ed in 1943. Though he swears that 
he doesnt intend to lose any sleep 
over any of the Tartans games, your 
editor is waiting to see what hap
pens when the team gets in a tight 
game, and the referee calls a close 
one. That red hair usually means 
quite a temper. Heres wishing the 
new coach a lot of luck, and telling 
him that the student body is behind 
him one hundred percent. Lets go 
out there gang and back the new 
coach to the limit. After the win the 
i Tartans presented their new coach 
on Saturday night the least the stu
dents can do is get out there and 
give them some rousing support. 
The tough part of the season is just 
coming up and Coach Silverman has 
not picked himself a bed of roses. 
The Tartans meet the pick of the 
I district which doesnt lend itself easI ily to any coach. Tech has a potenI tially strong team but as has been 
I the case for the last two seasons the 
| Tartans are flooring an unexperiencI ed team against seasoned opposition.
Intramural 
Roundup
It is a new year, but there are a 
few Intramural details hanging over 
from last year that have yet to be 
recorded for posterity.
The Delts and the Betas continu
ed to set the pace in the volleyball 
league, while Tom Barnhart and 
Ted Caridis walked away with the 
table tennis doubles championship. 
The singles are in the semi-final 
stage with three out of four coming 
from the PiKA housewhich might 
explain why the PiKAs are a sure 
thing to meet the Beta Sigs in the 
team finals next week.
Managers Club Reorganized
The Intramural Board has had its 
first meeting of the new year and 
Coach Risedorf has given out quite 
a pile of information about the next 
month or so of intramural activity. 
First of the list is the recent reor
ganization of the Managers Club; 
then come the plans for foul shoot
ing, bowling, and basketball.
The foul shooting contest will 
start on January 15 and will con
tinue through January 21. It is to be 
both individual and team competi
tion with a team consisting of five 
men.
Bowling, Basketball Next Month
Both the bowling and basketball 
entries are due February 6. The 
bowling will be on Saturday after
noons at the Craig St. alleys and 
will be restricted to the big pins. 
Basketball will start the week of 
February 12 with games played on 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday 
evenings.
Betas and Delts Top Volleyball
Unless there is a big upset in the 
next week the Delts and Betas will 
have to meet in a post-season play
off to decide the volleyball cham
pionship. The Delts sailed on as they 
sank the fast sinking DUs to the 
bottom of the league by a 21-4, 21-9 
score. The Betas also had an easy 
time of it as the Beta Sigs fell vic
tim 21-14, 21-7.
The feature game of the bunch 
was the PiKAs 21-19, 21-19 decision 
over the SAEs. There were also a 
pair of upsets when the TXs tri
umphed 24-22, 21-13 over Scwelch 
and the Tau Delts defeated the 
SAEs 21-8, 21-17. The remaining 
game showed the Beta Sigs taking 
the TXs 21-10, 14-21, 21-17.
Standing of the Teams Won Lost
Delta Tau Delta .............5 1
Beta Theta Pi.................. 5 1
Pi Kappa Alpha...............3 3
Scwelch ........................... 3 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon___3 4
Tau Delta Phi ................2 3
Theta Xi ..........................2 4
Beta Sigma Rho .............2 5
Delta Upsilon ................. 1 4
Plenty of Ping-Pong
The old celluloid pill was really 
batted around before vacation and 
there is plenty of news from this 
front. Unless the Betas pull the big
gest upset of ping-pong history, the 
PiKAs will meet the Beta Sigs on 
next Monday, January 14, to decide 
on whose mantle this years trophy 
will sit.
The table tennis doubles have 
been concluded with Tom Barnhart 
and Ted Caridis taking the crown 
with hardly a fight. They slammed 
Haberstroh and Dickerson 21-10,
Tech Defeats Case 
By Score of 50-35
In a hard-fought battle at Case on 
Saturday night, Carnegie Tech cop
ed its second win of the season to the 
tune of 50-35. Taking an early le^d 
and holding it throughout, the Tech 
team showed its mettle as they ex
hibited a strong defense, forcing the 
Case team to continually shoot from 
midcourt. At half-time the score 
stood at 28-18 in favor of the Tar
tans. The scoring had been opened 
up in the first period by Mart Chetlin and the Tartans held a 12-6 ad
vantage at the end of this canto. 
Though they were outscored 10-8 in 
the third period, the Skibos were 
able to hold a 36-27 lead as it ended. 
Hannum High Scorer
Standout scorer for the game was 
sharpshooting Gene Hannum who 
paced his team mates with seven
teen points, further upping his al
ready high point total of the year. 
He was closely followed by Lou 
Heiles and Kuzma who had thirteen 
and ten points respectively.
Tech Leads ThroughoutThough the game was not the 
usual see-saw battle Techites have 
become accustomed to, it was never
theless a contest which had the 
spectators on the edge of their seats 
at all times. It was the first game 
for the team under their new coach, 
George Silverman, and from indica
tions of the game, the students can 
expect some very interesting con
tests in the future.
Eager Beavers
A few sidelights on the game: 
Two Tech cheerleaders, Merle Wolff 
and Scottie Yurchison made the trip 
to Cleveland to cheer on the team. 
Must have done some good, fellows, 
as the score proves. The team also 
made its first trip by train as the 
team has always traveled by bus.
The lineups:
TechFGFTCaseFGFT
Heiles, f6113Kanoh, 215
Hannum, 7317Miller, f317
Kuzma, c5010Foster, c306
Harmuth, g000Tannis, g215
Chetlin, g408Evans, g215Butler, f011Menoe, f135
Bankmeyer, f 011Sannow, g102
Totals22650Totals14735
Tech Swimmers Face 
Oberlin Saturday
The C.I.T. Natators are all set and 
ready to go on their first post-war 
meet when they meet Oberlin Col
lege this Saturday afternoon at two 
in the Gymnasium pool.
The Tartans will face some 
mighty tough competition if Oberlin 
lives up to past records. They 
havent been beaten by the boys 
from C.I.T. yet, but this is a new 
year and neither team has seen ac
tion.
Probable line-up for Tech:
DiverZukaski
Dashes  Lagureuela, Haberstroh, 
Zukaski, Tachovich, Siegel, and 
Kavenagh 
BackstrokeDunbar and Lewis 
Breaststroke  Pearlstein, Straka, 
and Benya 
220 & 440 yd. free styleMacyauskas, Bertelson, and Pearlstein.
21-10, 21-15 in the semi-finals and 
then set down Umbach and Horelick 21-14, 13-21, 21-15, 21-16 in the 
finals.
Tech Sporting Scene
Dick Heckman
This week promises a big burst of 
sporting events to start the new year 
right. The swimming, team makes its 
debut Saturday at Oberlin. The 
basketball team makes its first ap
pearance on the Tech floor under its 
new coach Saturday night against 
W. and J., but that event takes a 
back seat to a little affair which will 
get under way Wednesday night in 
the pile of bricks on the hill  the 
Pitt game. Everything is being put 
in readiness for the battle  Kuzma 
is bringing his 300 rooters down 
from Monessen, Joe Harmuth has 
decided to cast off the jitters for the 
occasion, Marty Chetlin will put on 
his Adler Elevator Shoes, and word 
has it that theyre even going to get 
some heat into the Pitt gym. Every
body who doesnt want to miss the 
upset of the century better amble 
up there Wednesday.
One Shoe Wonder
Members of Techs Fearless Five 
provided the laughs of the week (as 
usual). All was well when the team 
arrived at Slippery Rock to play the 
Professors until Kuzma discovered 
he had forgotten a shoe in his rush 
to get the first seat on the bus (be
fore Bert Munhall got the other 30). 
Amzuk finally found a guy with 
boats as big as his, though, and bor
rowed one. It must have fit pretty 
well as the Monessen Maniac poured 
through 10 points. The other roar 
came when Lew Heiles decided to 
give the crowd a thrill by dropping 
his tray in the Skibo. The meat and 
peas blended in nicely with the color 
of Gene Hannums pants, and C. E. 
Butler caught the orange juice on 
the third bounce, (everybody wants 
ta get inta de act.)
More Wrecks!
And then there was Mike Evans, 
who stopped doffing his hat to the 
women long enough to wreck his 
car down in Texas over the vacation. 
He came back here and went to the 
hospital fearing a broken back, but 
was very disappointed when they 
. told him all he had was a bent rib 
and a sprained toenail. Local wom
en can now breathe easier, as Mike 
is back in circulation again, (O.K., 
Mike?)
The intramural Ping-Pong tourna
ment is coming down to the wire. 
All of which just about winds up the 
sports schedule for the week and, 
with that, I quit.
Important
All men interested in going out 
for the track team this year are 
urged to see Mr. Overend in the 
gymnasium. According to Coach 
Halferty, Techs biggest problem 
will be arranging meets with suit
able schools. Men are needed in 
all events, as the team will have to 
be completely reorganized.
BOWLING
University
Recreation Alleys
16 Perfect Alleys
AFTERNOON BOWLING 
FOR STUDENTS
407 S. Craig St. MAyflower 2998

---------------------------------------------------

A FSsFYS uISDER 
H mETTER TFSTING 
(g rOOSER SuOKING
AM fhe Benefits of j. Smoking Pleasure A
_8_______________________
tynxii fylailteA,
Leave us face it, were back in the 
saddle again and its a good secure 
feeling after so much vacation. Yes, 
and the Greeks on campus are back 
in the swing of things.
Welch Hall rang out a Happy New 
Year with the Beta Sigs throwing a 
large party for all its members. The 
main entertainment of the evening 
was Bill Scherb MCing'in a Truth 
or Consequences Program, having as 
its high-light Bernard Perlman and 
date impersonating 1945 and 1946.
The Beta Sigs were well repre
sented in the Tech cheering section 
at the Case game in Cleveland. Bob 
Marcus, former chancellor topped 
off the evening with a party for his 
frat brothers at his home.
The Schenley Hotel seems to be 
a popular place for Tech affairs  
the Chi Omegas held their formal 
initiation in the Patio Room, Satur
day, January 5. A dinner dance fol
lowed the initiation. Poppa and 
Mrs. Hyde acted as chaperones. 
There were a few Chi Os from other 
chapters in attendance. It all adds 
up to an initiation ceremony which 
the Chi Os of Tech will remember.
Friday, January 4, the Tri Delt
Skibo Scraps
continued from page 6 
Jerry Bell quite unhappy . . . Joel 
Bigelman shunning the comforts of 
home to visit Louisville with Bill 
Meyers . . . Bob Charpie casually 
dropping in after a two years ab
sence . . . Bob Sinclair coming back 
from the holidays quite dejected.
Seen at the Case Game; Stan 
Kohn, Irv Aisenberg, and Chuck 
Freed with blind dates, poor things 
. . . January 1 is a sad time; just 
ask Bob Teasdale about people who 
make New Years Resolutions for 
other people . . . John Mosley tak
ing his pledge play part (villain) 
quite seriously, judging from his ac
tions around Letty Lou Cook . . . 
Remarkable achievement No. 364: 
Joan Thistle keeping a ping pong 
table between herself and A1 Swan
son all evening . . . Who was most 
surprised when the bomb went off 
in Abe Hoppers car? . . . The doc 
telling Sam Moses to keep off his 
feetits going to seem right strange 
seeing him walk to school on his 
hands next week . . .
Mrs. Dunn (alias Virginia Lee 
Lerch) is quite happy about a re
cent call from Chuck . . . Ruth 
Rauhaus sporting a classy engage
ment ring ... A very very appro
priate cartoon made its appearance 
on the Machinery Hall bulletin 
board last week ... Ed McMullans 
Delt pin showing up conspicuously 
on Margie Dyke . . . Mary Lou 
Lerch getting nervous about walk
ing down the aisle (as a brides
maid). Ditto Shirley Seiner . . . 
Don Clendennen has finally done it; 
hes now engaged to Alice Krepps 
from that school (?) across the way
Stop moaning, fellows . . .
KINGS BARBER SHOP
For A Good Haircut
Woodlawn Apartment Building
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 8, 1946
pledges gave a hobo party for the 
actives at the SAE house. After 
much deliberation, Lil Maravecky 
was crowned Hobo Queen for 1946 
(that is an accomplishment).
The Delts held an uproarious New 
Years Eve party at the House. Won
der why there was such a sleepy ex
pression on the face of a few Delts 
at their big house party Saturday 
night?
Former Theta, Peggy Cole was in 
town during the holidays and the 
Thetas held a party for her in Mt. 
Lebanon.
The Phi Kappas held their Christ
mas party December 21 of last year 
1945. All the girls were presented 
with Christmas corsages of pine 
cones and holiday ribbon.
Saturday night, the SAE pledges 
gave a party for the actives. The 
boys gave a murderous account of 
Little Red Riding Hood with a big 
fraternity man acting as the wolf.
A formal initiation was on the cal
endar for the Sigma Kappas, Satur
day, January 5. A banquet followed
Chapel, Health Assembly 
End Semester Schedule
Two more assemblies will be held 
in the Little Theater before the 
closing of the school semester. The 
Newman Club is sponsoring the 
Chapel service to be held January 
15 at eleven oclock, for which a 
speaker has not yet been engaged.
The second assembly, on January 
22, is sponsored by Mr. Risedorph. 
Several health movies will be shown 
for the engineers in connection with 
the R. O. T. C. and Hygiene courses.
the initiation ceremony. The initia
tion was held at the Tech Womens 
Club. After the banquet, the PiKAs 
joined the girls at Phil Aiellos 
home. The big question now is  
who is minus a pipe? For informa
tion, ask Phil Aiello.
New Years Eve was a convenient 
time to meet, eat, and greet at the 
Tau Delt House. The boys reinstat
ed an old customthat of having a 
Truth and Constipation skit. Sounds 
like fun.
AIEE Holds Meeting, 
Field Trip, Banquet
Today the American Institute of 
Electrical Engineers, including stu
dent branches of Carnegie Tech, the 
University of Pittsburgh, Penn 
State, and the University of West 
Virginia, is holding its annual Pitts
burgh meeting.
At 10 A. M. the entire group will 
tour the new Phillips Power Plant 
of the Duquesne Light Company, 
after which luncheon will be served.
At 2:30 P. M. the Technical meet
ing, presided over by Joseph Franz 
of Carnegie Tech, will be held in 
the Empire Room of the Fort Pitt 
Hotel. Arnold Horelick will present 
a paper on Bomber Communication 
and Navigation by Radio.
The annual banquet held in honor 
of the National President will be 
held at 8 P. M. in the English Room. 
After the dinner Dr. W. A. Wickenden, national president of the A. I. 
E. E. will address the assemblage.
Copyright 1946, Liggett Fc Myem Tobacco Soc
