Drama Dept
Presents
Production
Men must be at liberty to 
6ay in print whatever they have in mind to Bay, provided it wiongs no one. .
CHARLES A. DANAHc Carnetjie (Tartan
VOL. 29, NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 1935
6th
of
Season. Sat.
iRich Man, Poor Man 
Dramatizes. Life of 
Jonathan Swift
ACTION INVOLVES 
PARTY INTRIGUES
Two Women in Heros Life 
Contrasted with Literary, 
Political Associates
,iis,_Saturday evening and
hiding with a matinee on Friday March 15. It is being directed by Prof. E. W. Hickman.This new play, written by Warren C. Munsell, Jr., centers about (lie figure of Jonathan Swift, early eighteenth century -author of a 6eries of social and political satires. ot which Gulliver's Travels" Js perhaps the best known.
Tells of His Private Life 
le action begins with Swltt in the midst of the intrigues of the political parties in the age ot Queen Anne and concerns also his connection with the two women alHester Vanhomrigb, whom, he called Vanessa is portrayed as a witty, beautiful young .woman whose intense, passion for him led to coolness on his part and'eventually, according to some, to her death of a broken heart.His association with these two women is contrasted by the authoi
Jotactivities of hTa-te^Bi&:-'d're> appointments at thehanda of the Whigs, hia espousal. of .-.Un'-Tory !, and-, his growing-.liwportance.
fall of the Tories and the loss Ms friends, which caused him bccome a voluntary exile in bis Irish deanery, from which place hecontinued to write-fiercely .'against the opitreslon of the lrieh people.
Cast Named 
The cast Includes: Kathryn Bauer. Eleanor Blosser, Sarabel Browarsky, Mary. Cheffey, Jean Dunkcrley, Jane Fraricy, Patti LltJanet Patrick, Emma Siiess, Charles Aehbaugli, William Canton, William Davis, Carl. Dozer, ullton Goldbloom, Robert 'Gordon, and William Herz: ;Also in the cast are: Homer Hull, Regis Joyce,, John.Kennedy,
Ralph Nason, Edward .Paikot, Douglas Pannier, . Al.dea  Smith, Brlnton Turkle, andBenjamin
IndusirialDesigti 
DisplayNow Open
duct Design o...the. Montgomeryward Company-, was opened jn. the small exhibitionroom in the College or Fine Arts.' These photo4 panlis reveal the riev/1 -and old 
?es. household furniture;'liing from .a' drip-o-.lator 
ivlntc r
Tartans Entertain 
College Swim Teams 
In Association Meet
Major. Contest Attracts 
Many Nation?] Stars 
Td'Carnegie Pool
RUTGERS SWIMMERS 
DEFEND 1934 TITLE
Faster Clockings Foretell 
Lowering of Pool, 
National Records *
By Scotty Charles 
. This week-end-Carnegie plays host 
to the Eastern Collegiate Swimming 
Association, in Its annual cham
pionships. This event is rotated 
between the different schools in 
the association and 1935 Is Carnes 
gies first year as host to, the B. 
S. C. A. teams. .The races, which 
will begin on Friday afternoon, apd 
continue through Friday night and 
through Saturday afternoon, with
willthe finals on Saturday  
probably beithe best ever seen at 
this school with some of the finest 
swimmers in the . Bast competing.
Among the colleges which are 
expected to send teams are Rut
gers, Franklin and Marshall, Pitts
burgh, Manhattan College, New 
York University, Ualversity of Del
aware, and Lafayette with a possi
bility that some of the other teams 
Me the Association may have repre
sentatives/
Rutgers Won La6t Year 
Laot year the championships 
were won by the Rutgers squad, 
headed by Walter Spence, named 
by many as the greatest swimmer 
of the year. Carnegie . sent. only 
three representatives but managed 
to get fourth place out; of eleven 
entries when Boyer wonthe backstroke, Holiday came In second in the-220 yard' freestyle .event,' nd the medleytemn of Boyer, .yonder Lancken. and Holiday placed third: H:?b?Scye^Jya. .ehowij iayph^mi, provmt in association llminga, so. the competition-wili probably be. Jrtener-'tiian ever,.;' ft is yery probable'that-almost every pool record wlli.be shattered, though league marks will prbbly stand, aB the Carnegie pool is rather Blow and difficult to swim In speed racing.
Favors F. & M.
The teams this year are much better balanced than on previous occasions and this should make the interesting. Rutgers
has shown startling strength in late' meets and may surprise the field with a victory. The events include the 400 yard relay, the 22p yard freestyle swim, fancy diving, fifty yard freestyle, 150 yard backstroke, 440 yard freeptyle, 200 yard breaststroke, and the lOO^yard freestyle swim. . . .
Leads Grand March
Betty MeGregor, president of he Junjor cjaes In Margaret MorrlLocal Alumni 
Hold Clan Day 
Celebration
Plan Luncheon - Meeting 
Saturday at 1:30 at 
Carnegie Inn
As part of the sixth annual cele
bration of. Acroas-the-Coritlnent 
Clan day, graduates of Carnegie 
living In - Allegheny county will 
hold a luncheon meeting In Carne
gie at 1:30 on Saturday.
;. The celebration'of Clan day .was 
inaugurated six years .ago.by1 the .Caj^^e-^omnlil^e^l.dn.'-Glane 
in all parts-of the' United States 
are,planning parties and entertain
ments for'Clari day.
nm aquiuon io ine Pitiaburgb 
Clan there are groups in Phila
delphia, Johnstown, Farrell, Shar
on, Harrisburg, and Erie, . Penn
sylvania. In Ohio,- Carnegie Clans 
are located in Akron, Canton, 
Cleveland, Columbus, and Youngs.. The Alumni office has received 
word of'programs being planned in 
Chicago, Atlanta, Buffalo, Schenec
tady, Troy/ New York City, De
troit, Milwaukee, the Northern 
NewJersey area, Tulsa,- Washing
ton, D. C., Baltimore, Hagerstown, 
Boston, Connecticut, St. Louis, Los Angles, * and Sari Francisco.'
People You Ought to Know...
By Clifton P. Boutelle .
Dr. Webster N, Jones, Director of the 
College of Engineering
In his college days Dr. Webster N. Jones, in'ade a specialty 
of ruunmg jiiio van the mile and two-inile events on the Uinvev;sity of Missouri track team. Arid lie is still running,- only now; 
he is running the. College of Engineering. In his two and one? 
half-years'at Carnegie he.has accomplished imich. ; Under-, his 
administration the College of Industries has befeii consolidatedwith he College of . Englneerlng,* ' 'coiii'Ges in mlrilrig 'have'Tj'eeri eliminated arid In the spacppnce clntr teced with mihe-i^rv locomotives.' aiid a mine itself,- -Director Joneshas been instrumental increating a most up-to-date iUhemical 'Engineering.iaboratiry.r' N -.Direcjpr; Jou.es is an advocate otl a.' ftve yaf engiueerlng course for.  those \vho=can afford'such-training. He -fepa that eventually .englneer-.ing.wlfl probably become'a graduiate; course. He pictures-future develophnsnt in engineering . along
to glass____and old package designs includingarticles fromshell -'eliots 'a bunion-pads. "Each.
LaUractiv articles. .: , .....i . Pu|Pose.,of .tliis exhibais rin w what' industrial design hs; one us improve the attractiveness' M^ycts on the.-, market.The *UiI)it was made, posible by Miss
une Swainslm'- director f' tbi<< neslsn. . ;
Employment Bureau 
Arrangetlatervievos
nnV1' ,I;,raDk B. iGary. 'Jr., of the neral Chemical Company.of New i* i ~Uywil..jnteT.lV>-Beniors.the Departments f Chemical :ftd ectonical -Engineering ' FrldSy.^ Saturday.\.On AVedoesday^tatch l3;Wr., C. ti,J director of peraonnel. of1-?J?!lrftegle1;stel'Coihpnyv<;wni seniors, Inr. th Depart*. Imi T? Metallurgical; and Mchan-. Ensineerinr / - * , " tAppointments for .these .Inters
ih technical "efficiency aud a broadr lia'e : !ji general culture will charcteriz'e>.th'e'.:engihrihg grdd^. ute of tomorrw. ' V.'.-
'be.interested'-ih,' if . he .Is to. b'e'.an" nglneerfe'E'ngllahv'inathetatcsi phylbs. chemiatrj'.and mechanics, Qf' th4s; ; five -; Dlrctpi^;VJpnes stresses - English. Engineers; .mustmastev mathematlca ^attd'Vr-.thy. shoid try: to maeti' .-Englisli' for;  
^ln;' '    *'' ~J. lot and yet: ,ibe ableto s_ell ltherbimselt hiisVserv/cs.. ' -J,' '. Massproductlon^.is;the't2rm-pr.
education^ t aTngie: : iVTIiie cur-: rlculum ts-rlgld. and>ieaves. little hoic ^oft.lectlvea. .Weiliave tried toalter iitbis cpuditiou'-,l>y giving mGf'-'freomCin';the^ electing.otsubjects'for tlie. senior year.
. .The^d;ectprl--,\bM.tly...V:diflttP; proves of rcnt" actlon at the University : f; .Chicago eliminating Ve^ttra-^urricular activities. Hev'was ;an^: activities man himself in r'cou le'gfe>*nd he''fflel8 that-,j^rapnallty ant) :ccliaracter'.' developeds,through, collegeactivitleB ibould^gpyhanjl;
made Vatid .therefore subject to erarid criticism! He.admits that he would like to see more,courses ' cultural  value,- but"- then ih' s tho' query; Hoy-are you go-do.lt..
curricula.aro 'overloaded Syi^h .technical subjects could\be ; ansyrd:
tlit. enineii
courcr in engineering. .Director Jones -answer to tlie '-problem is graduate study. ' Carnegie'.now has flv&yer' plan; )Jt:-^is : not-,compulvy; it'is. ' dependent . whollyoir whthr or"not th: studnt'eanafford nn -iextr yec .fV stdy. Dr.
for-graduat.'.tcaitiing.':' Ah'mirht governm^iC .rt^glnervhas - an '-ldea that Vliiasmachcompetition for iobs iD;:a1l .'branches of engineer*, ing will' b'e; ienr in; th future, -it Js-. increasingly-Important1 for;;mep i fbav as nluch: trainirig. aB theirr rcmstancs-permit..y':.,.,'v^'DirectorJopea left; th, ;fieid: ,of engineering^-for . a. ^ew;: minutes'' to
dltficultiesrfrtrhWs combngVpn-'mriir'C01Iege\,c'm: puss. ' ,rTh'ey .wlf rem ntegral ^t-.rLioiig. ^ economics mrt sLudent.opinion.re favorable.' Stiidentvppml^^judge VofV wh'ther the' fraternity system-, is .wortliwbiliV'-' Dr. Jones, received'hiis' degree1,of Doctor-'of PhiJosopl^>frqm>Jiarvard ; Iiil920. .^Beforevcomlng -. to. Carnegie In ^^^e^head-pf,process
Fran Eichler 
Plays at Junior 
Prom Friday
Betty McGregor - Leads 
Grand Promen.ade;
. .Tickets $3i50
WOMEN CHOOSE 
SCHNLEY HOTEL
Committee Plans - to Serve1 
 Breakfast at. 2 oclock, 
Following Dance
in the ballroom of the Schenleyhotel.
- The junior class of Margaret Morrison has charge of all arrangements. The dance is open only to alumnae and women of the junior and seniorclasses of Margaret Morrison and the College ot Fine
couple, and are on sale now.. Ac*; cording to present plans they will not to -be sold at tho door.Betty MjcGregor, president of the junior tMsbal and a secretarial student in Margaret Morrison, .will' lead the grand march.
Popular Band Plays .Fran Eichler and his orchestra are known on' the Carnegie campus. They have-played .at several dances in-Thistle hall, and also at fraternity dances. The orchestra may also be: heard over station WJAS.
Mies Mary' Watson Green, denn otwOmen has been invited' to 'the the gueRt of honor.
Miss Gj-uver, Miss Sheriff, and ProCommittee Named 
-' Betty Lehr, vice president of-the junior class of Margaret MorrJso'ii,;
?ee...JOthprjneDi1)srs^:;pfjtbr^la^ serving on comtnitteea'i
Nancy Chancellor,- --Mrgartt Mc Keqn, Elizabeth -Stuart,>. and.-.Jeaa
Womens Faculty 
Club Meets Wed.
Mr. J. B. Rickey 'Will Talk 
About Canadian Dam
The March meeting of the WoTliiChute 'a Cron, ,'Saguenay River in the Province of'Quebec.,
 Mr. Rickey will, discuss the plan of .'the dam, and will illustrate his lecture.- -.Prof, Harold .A. Thoms and Prof.; : Normn . iRlggs did wovk: on this (lam;.,. Professor Thomas building the model for-the
.. ..j. the first 'f it' klnd .to be -ctempted. Mre. R., IT Leighou will introduc Mr.- -Rickey-. ' Mrs. Riggs is prsident of.-.tie club, and' Mrs. H. S. Hower 6 progrm 'clilrmn.
IntersQrorty Formal - 
Is Financial Success
Febrjjary-21, .was one of the. successful, dances financially of those held this year. Sororities ;fro'm -both .tlie College ofFine Arts arid Margaret-Morrison attended.- 
!;: Thi ;budget, ' submi tte.d by Jn terComing Events
:-twansday.iT2:3tfr-^Phonogrph -vecltal-r-Exb;; hibitn rQom,-.'.'C.llge ;ot Fine:;.''V..;'trts;';'-;.:: -3:0^rWjmen>s: ' Faculty;  club 'vvl-<^e'St'lng^Paculty-clh room; . <:';7:lB^TCarricgieTrtfi'Quarter V^^HrWWSW.;:'.-'-: .Thnrsday-^.v, ' '' *Vr':7'12:30This tie   s Laff ' meeting Y^ pfflco. '
ArtS. :10 to 2-^T-Woinen,sJiiiiior. Prom . Hotels  ; SChe^i-TzFran ' lch.ler's aorchestr.';' ,--5atrdyr-^..,;::;V!, 2:30-^-Swimming; .. Easlern : Col-' ^leviate Swimnunc Mocialiun
Control of Fraternity Formal 
Causes Rift Between Councils
Student Work 
Under FERA 
Is Investigated
:U. S. Official Directs 
Inquiry on Belief 
Distribution
An investigation of the operaJ)r. Fred J. Kelly, chief of higher education, of . the U. S. office of education. >'. In'reply .to.the questionnaire re-......... >r: Kelly, Mr. M.cKol-. .... ________to .tlie .registrihead' of the Student FERA here, stated that. he ' believed the 'Student employment ..program
Very glad to havo been able to participate in the plan.
Benefits Are Mariy 
The program has enabled
the money., they receive, has beer beneficial in otlior ways. First, there is the moral effect on .the students in that they do not become Imbued with the Idea that ^hey can get something for nothfrg; (2) the practical experience gainedwlU - be of great' value' to thom even though it may -not be In their chosen line of-study; *(3) the. institutions for. which they work are'-receivlng.benefits which they woutd otherwise be unable to. Afford. ;
^ Mr. McKelway stated that
Principal Figures in Current Dispute
William ! lian F.-Munster  , of the two bodies vlolng foiCrol of the recently held Interfraternity
freedbnr.the colleges' have, been permitted to ezercls, not .only lb lho;.eelection of .the' students-to be ^Ided, but also In the selection of the work-to; which'-they .may; be asBlgned;::Theentire.workbasbeen
political or\otherv,-lae.
.. nt-at Carnegie had to offer con: ceraed. the restriction as to the number' of hours a student may work In any one day or any one week. Because of the heavy schedules of laboratory and studio
amount each month; it is bellved h  should be permitted to  work any length of time that may be to
in studies of those employed in the FERA work, with the otlier'. students, the average, of the: former was found to-be 2.29.
Eta Kappa Nu, honorary Electrlfaculty loom in the Commons. The
School Editors 
Vote in .G.E. 
Peace Ballot
Results Agree Closely 
With Student Opinion 
In Cenerai Poll
Editors' of all college newspapers in AmerlcA 1 were asked to vote on a special ballot during the final week' of the' general' college peace poll prenared -by the Association of .College Editors and con*; ducted $y the: Literary Digest.
The vote of> the college editors ..indicates; that;..the - opinionof be_ coTJege .prea-'lV neither^dheatT nor behind -that^ ot their readers, is the Digest comment on-the-returns;The  ballots - carried '-the-isame questions used in the general college poll,.-and also: thequestions asked-on'the pence ballot conducted in England by the British League of Nations union. 'The questions on the British ballot are four in number. -They ask whether international agreement would be pdvlsable on Armament i eduction, on abolition of alr-crnft, and on prohibtlon of private manufacture and sale'of armaments..The last question asks whether, if oho nation Insists on attacking
measures. -,Except for a somewhat stronger sentiment for entry ' Into. the League of Nations, the returns of this special editor's poll arc. very close, in every respect to the returns of'students in"general.In Its report, ; tlie Digest finds It
vice ; president and. . treaaurer; ovt.of .every eight editors recelvPeter w. wyckoS, 36, secretary; .ing special ballots.either filled out and Robert C; McMaster, 36, bridge or returned It. Of 644 receiving editor. __________________special ballots only 80 were polled.
Relief Wage Dispute Slows-Progress 
Qf~NatonalrScil Secfirily Plan
..... --Bv .Br...Natban Miller____The - entire legislative * program of-: the Administration in Congress ii3 'lielng held by th dispute over the :?4,360;od0,000 Work-Relief Bill.In _ distinctly sharp . contrast
awaited.- foundation' of. a 'national social security program also lies subjected to a vigorous cross-fire in ^committee..The Issues involved in the WorkRelief Bill are extremely significant In  portraying 'the basic disagreement on the 'essential - measires .for'. economic, recovery arid 'reform. First, there is the bit;er._onposit_lon, often hidden bit ^et'^nhderi'yingr and :^sttinutaUng' oth^r plisea ot the 0ppo3itioij, to the . allocation of this breath-taking m.mor or less cafte^l.anche to. th' frli'tfaVExecutive.; Many-senators^liave taken,the, position tlikt .hy;,yotlng. this fund they. :are.'.abdicating their. powers and . magnifying: thiose< of the President beyond aiiyifiing ever "experienced inour history. - 'And: n view,, of the..regp.revaU.Ipsi' ,.w^errata.pfvid in p.rl:
withdrawn by the Administration io await tho chastisement of the rebels by the folks back home hut apparently the expected resentmeut bas not appeared among.. Uio
There seem .to be several plausible arguments to support the action of the Senators who. have taken this stand... Although it is
work may be diminished by raising' the wage-rate, yet this is not as Imporlant as the bulk-sum of consumption which Is created thereby^ and If more persons ,should* be employed, .there is. no.' apparent' rea-. son.wfij' the': goyefnmen.t IcouW'nof employ them part-time at,.prevail: ing'1'wages. Presldont. Roosevelt's Intention'-to do away::'totally ;'wltli ',doles', .'(wiorkless relief): to'air fit for . work; ' by  . thl,'-' ;'flv'e billion .- appropriation. for. public wprki'.cantipt. 'patently^.-alisorb all such - men and women.'' '- A .much .Wger-sum. would be involved,, and, the works ; would -have -to. ultimate
idle critlclam indeed.-, ;on the other ments. There is.undoubtedly.: hand, .the.-preeldenis protagonists .vast, amount of unemployment insistthat ieaving': control of the which cann6t-.be ierased'ibVtlfes'" fundsv|..in Gongress hands would palliative, fill-ih measures.constitute 'th' most: gigantic : ^porkbarrel": in. history. .; '-- v :;Gnace66 Balks Actipn : LTheiasiie upon which the Admin-' is.lratloh 'wa? ,definitely ., repulaed, lip.wvr, was on .the.- clause allowJng 'only a nominaI, or "reller' wage
Disagrees With Administration -Npr^\wlll! there, he-a; serious con yetitioubptTCfionpubllcaad^prlvat
paratively /equivalent 'wage^-until there is .a - Job in slght^for every iloyabl;. ^person. ' .......ǻ -the -public work projectswhich i ernnloyable..- person. : If :certain were to/be flnaBced^'by.-the-grant. : workers are drawn away.yfrom:pv(: Th,diMldntj"ut-v0te<itheadmln-]vate:emploJ3nelit>toipnbllc'!wor] 5;UConU<<lj oii^fJ jfgr >
Drive to End 
Pilfering Gets 
Under Way
Faculty Committee Acts 
To Combat Menace 
To Parked Core
hAS been undertaken by a cor>riittee of faculty .members under the chairmanship ..'of Prof. Kent D
numerous individuals pUB that articles such, as tires, batteries. 'accessories) baggage, and
around the Pitt Bowl street; .
Executive Board: Acte 
. The pilfering, on the Carnegie campus lately, hns grown to such proportlOQa that action was taken by the Executive. Board wblch appointed a committee composed of Pf-of. Kent D. Schaffer, chairman, pean Arthur W. Tarbell, Mr. Alan Bright and Mr. Larry Miller to Investigate means Of combating this minor menace,-  
The line of action, the commltteo' Is taking is to secure as much evlthe. thievery are veiy Inadequate, .Mr. .Schaffer therefore urges that 
all who bave been., victims, of pilferers present-: a .report of their losses and the ' surroundingcircumstances to. him in writing. Con-' slderlng the amount of robberies, tho evldene* -has, aa yt, been slow In accumulating.
Offenders Probably Outsiders 
Mr.--Schatf(k-ls-;uaa9rtaln -aa -toi campuswhethpr' the oKenders people.or not, liut be -Is-lhcHnecLto think, the crlmes r. rbeng done byot^idrsV'^He'.mnoftea.that during.- the football. seasoh. ,mucli was done by street-'-lirchlns who raldpd cars that refused - to pay. them tribute in the" form, of a nominal fee for protection,1'
' We hav'a fifteen million dollar Investment on the campus heve,"
WWSW Offers Two 
Carnegie ; Broadcasts
' Carneglo prents the Beethoven String Quartet. In a half . hour broadcsfit-:--i:-30 ^overv-staUon. WWSW.' -; ' :;.The feature ar.tls'ts include--W1K lianr Stone,. first-vvlolln;;. Wilma Melse, ; second'-vlolln; Rose Aiell; .vila'; and^Louise Wlngold, .cello^- -. n ; thei; Tartan .Quarter., H'oiiv Wednesday, evening;atjf:i6,- Helen Jayne .will sing 'Savage Serenade,*' aiid:VIrgitifa Cecil wlll sing.the'.ria from' Mo^f ts*Marrlageof Figaro." ThevScptcii iseles-^lice Phllpott, Btty'SchracTc/'na^ will have - a special '. number for thelrsharepf theprpgram.''.
CODE INSTRUCTION GIVEN 
' Radio code instruction open to allstudatB-'will;b'egvcn!'at'Sat' urday mornings frorri ^lO 'to 11:30. in th iTwr, room in' Machinery. Hall. ^bis inatniction -: will . be glveh;'by;^Sergearit>I)obbB .andije; opn^t.'any^Btudnt're'glatrdat Camegiei > Sergeant Dobbs <has 
n KVnjM _Cj><TPf''SPc{tgf for
interfraternity; 
Council Seeks
Independence
Makes Sudden Stnnd 
Before Affair to 
Gain Control
IGNORES STUDENT 
COUNCIL COMPS
We Should Not be Forced1 
To Pay Tribute, Soys 
Jntcrfrat Preeident - - 
A dotorminod attempt by Interfruternlly Council to wrest control 
of the lnteriratersity Formal from - 
Studoni Council Inal week resulted 
in a vigorous dispute between thotwo bodies. A definite .understand- 
inghns not yet been reached.- The 
dnnco, however, was held ns sched-. 
'uled nnd no trouble took place..
Action,Virby begun on Saturday : morning, February.. 23,' by intorfvuteraity Council, when, at Its regular meeting, it voted to send o delegation to Student Council to prolest Student Councils jurisdiction 
over the interfraternlly BalL Tlie IriterfrnternltyCouncil felt. that. il wan entitled to manage its own affairs, since tho fraternities thomselves were financially responsible. Further, - theycould notJustice ir  ------ -*complime Council..
Refused Audience . .
"The delogatl.on from Intorfratcr*. nlty council'went to the regularly. - scheduled Student Council meeting lost Tuesday evening held in;.the . home of Veronica Kloos, a Studoat
CpunjqlL-lody. i ni)L Inforroal 'idl?* : cussion, their -meeting ..having been - postponed becaueo no quorum wftfl;. pregen t, .
Julian F. Munster, president o)i ' interfraternity Council, asked tno.- president, of. student Council, .Wil*; .- llam Becker: to call a meeting Uw interfratornity Council might voice; Its grievances. This  request yes' refused on the ground that - no. quorum was present.
The next morning the .matter , was - placed before Dean Tarbell. who said.- The executive commit*- tees ofthe two councils are capable of arriving at.-some solution the question."-
On -Wednesday afternoon the lnterfraternlty .- Councilexecutive-'' committee conferred wlth the. Student Council executive committee and complained that, although .thO: organization ^represented over .400 men on the campus:it had no .of*;: ficlal representation  m - Student-.
as to who would get compllmentaty : tickets. That lnterfraternllv Couq* v ell was entitled to handlo its dance';: Independently, for it was responsible for all financial losses.-Fur*> thei that Student Council was ctarg/off a per-, -centet--- tho -
fraternity' In advance and could.: 
therefore pay cash for-each Itom of txpeasFlays System *Speoklng for the .Interfraternlty.-.i Council. . Julian'- Munster said;/ There - Is no reaeon -i-inr. the - world -why.- one organization - must pay tribute in the form of free tickets and fees-to .an*'' ether organis-atlon -for. services,'
parried -with arguments show-. : ing that 'Stxiiiont Council was given:--- its auLhoilty by the school admln^q istratlon. as K is clearly shown' in,^ the wliite book. '- Interfraternity : !. Councilis subordinateti> Stadent<:>.-: Council. Further, that tlielineiof-''' action which was instituted should-.' have been taken .weeks ago,. not.'. '' during the'week ;of' the inlerfrateri-,-? nitv social.function. 5;-:It . has Just been; in the last-yeer.-. that Student'Council took, oyer ixthe;:', 8UperviBtn':..'Ot^lii\-lnierifift^iit5^:: Ball. - This was done'to help qdell v rumi'3. of graft ^which .were; remi^ pnt^^ Iter; last years' affair.' ^.'.-c ^iv: William >Bj8ckt* Studnt^Cnii-ii' 0lL.pre9ident,;said,-,,Int^fraiernitir5> Council haa raans' fof Vita action^j: but tUe fact ^eriiains tht th'rUlesijV; ar' n the books and it-;is ,'Stiidgn^.Council's duty-to a. that they-a^^i carried out.*! -^ ? 'temporary concord-, was: attained^,bistw^seir th-e ^woaotnniittes; it .was; agreed that-. Student - Co.uncl^ ^should admniater th Ball ndi!^^^ P^tltion inamlng.all . : gHeyanceii ndvTPcommehdations'-'ehoiif^^^^iS presented.'at.:theStudeht'\Cpunpi^^ meeting; following the .sociali'..Raselfld Agreerr>*nt ^. At :a:.speclar. meeting;' hpwey^f assembled at 10 oclock : WednWit?. day-.nlght.Interfrateniity.Co.attcfeiM voted ^ to rescind the - tfem'ponn^m^f agreement ' made >:by.r;ltB . execvU^^ nlttee It was votpd^UJ ** ^

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN ; - TUESDAY, MARCH 5. 1935
II2The Cartucce 3Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER J
'Sporta EdHor-----------:--------S^hn1
 an-exelusive National Advertising Representative: - NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, INC.JJ Wwt Fcity-second Strwt, New York
JULIAN F. MUNSTER
9sasissi^..'.'T/LUBA.' Bailor---COPY EDITOR: Rc JUNIOR EDITORS:
b6obbp 6wihhivD. PENDLETON 
. Clifton Beateli*.
BEEORTERS: Toby Cirrus. Lout Bald?, Alpha B : Lewis Briner, Dorothy Booth, Loto Homer, Wll Lord. Albert McClure^ Adelaide^ jJhJf s! 
James Sl^wart, Joseph Thoma* Roll Welter. < 
SPORTS STAFF: J.
CIRCULATION STAFF:
Batlle Royale
i mHE rift between Student Council and InterX fraternity Council over the Intorfraternlty 
Formal was inevitable.
When Student Council assumed supervision 
< of the affair last year there were premonitions
1 on all sides that, sooner or later, InterfraterjiT;:;.:. til tv Council would make an attempt to : 
gain control of the dance. That attempt w 
.>; d ) made last week.
But the regrettable tiling about the whole 
t situation is not that Interfraternity Council
'I made'a stand but that it chose to make it at
}<! bo unreasonable a Lime as it.didjust i
.. days before the dance. That is the SOURCE of 
all the troublethat is why a breach, which 
might have been settled-ln a much smoother 
i r.j fashion, has assumed LARGER proportions
- .than it should. 
i,11 j' We do not contend that Interfraternlty 
tv-5- Council was unjustified in its demands to i 
I ' Its dance alone. Their arguments are good.
Is: their reasons soundbut that is BESIDE THE
i i 4 POINT. Neither should we concern ourselves
fvT1' *3 -srtth the reason why Student Council look
oyer the affair last year. That, too, is beside 
It* ig .g i ?;  - the poir 
it >v * In this particular instance THIS, and this
U'ri* H*' alone, is the point. There is a ruling <
r books that slates that Student Council shall
_ exercise supervision over the Interfraternlty
jt 1 ' _ STUDENT COUNCIL MUST ENFORCE IT.
,-y  That's all there is to consider.
^ sentiment has been expressed by mem.bersof Student Council that they could seei and understand  Interfraternlty .,.Council's 
..grievances and were willing to take actipn to'
> '  .amend them, had interfraternlty Council begun.Its action SOONER so that that ruling might 
j|l ' lave been rescinded in time for it to manage.
Hhiedance itself. But aiuce Inlerfrateraity 
S v Council decided to act just a few days before
[ - the Ball while that ruling was STILL on the
'-books and despite the fact that Student Coun;-;cii: had had control of the affair all along, that 
: action can only be characterized as a RASH 
'One, particularly in view of the fact that it 
-I-^''ameafter an agreement had supposedly, been 
{H ' i reached by the executive committees of both
I'!' s' , councils, and in view of the fact that Interfra1 temity Council had not conaulted its faculty
 adviser in the matter.
' 11 tToder such circumstances, it came as a diIU ' , ' rect CHALLENGE to Student Council, an Open
h DEFIANCE for it to do what it would, Interi fraternity Council intended to act independ!n spite of Student Council. And StuCHddtA did and will continue to do what 
-'."it' jiUST doenforce the rules as they 6tand-r 
' there is*no other alternative;
If w. will have strong government, then 
rthit government must perform its prime duty, 
i ^ l enforce the rules. If it fails to do that, then
^ i ^ room on Tuesday nights, so that council :
Writers Row
CL/MT/JNOF YOMA While (.hey were still unvlslted by white men, there was on one of the many little Islands situated in the mld-Paclflc a savage by the name of Mevl. He was a mem* : of the happy, care-free tribes
Yoma that reared its solitary head : the midst of the deep, blue water. At the base of Yoma,' whose gv&uueur awed and' inspired them, the tribe buried its dead.
; of Yoma and a desire to lie .in peace at last at the feet of the great mountain.
Mevl was a typical tribesman, whose days were spent in healthful pastimesin hunting, fishing, and the simple games of savages. It was unnecessary for him or his, friends to till the soil, for wild fruits and fish were in abundance. His only work consisted in occasionally patching
for m wife the lovely Mai
k. C. E. 'Horizon/K
R tLouuEv6E ps pLE vES Sswue
By Norman McL. Rogers 
(nir. Rogers id professor of political science 
: Queens University, Canada. He was 
lember of the Royal Commission which i 
ported on the finances of Nova Scotia with i 
latlon to the British North America Act. He 
adviser to Mackenzie King when 
the Liberals were In power In the Canadian 
Federal House. He has written this article 
exclusively for A. C. E.)
One of the most promising signs of j 
turn of economic sanity on this continent is the revival of.- Interest in a reciprocal trade treaty between the United States and Canada. In both countries there Is evidence of i tlon from the extreme doctrines of eci nationalism which were expressed in the
happiness, playing with her little boy and enough to exert a profound Influence
finding strange flowersThe family of Mevl wa
. white birdsthe ships of pale-skln. ned, men, and witli them c-uuie black-robed white teachers of strange ways of living
he mended his ways-and believed as tbey believed, he would suffer terrible pangs after he died, just as his ancestors lying
He built -ugly, hot, heavy buildings in the place of bis airy bamboo hut. In short, he obeyed the missionaries and
back was bent B he no longer looked up into the inspiring  face of Yoma nor at her feet where his lost ancestors lay burled. He forgot Yoma and became* a Christian. His son was named John, a Christian name, and his wife no longer ran about in the sunshine but drooped a.w&y within her close brick house until/pale and wan, she died; then Mevl' In sadness buried the beautiful Marnoo in the .new Christian churchyard where tho fruit trees used to grow. Sometimes in the evening when the shadows very long, Mevi would notice how
he wondered why It made his heart sing
Ooe day when-he was walking down the now crowded street of the island, Mevl noticed a yellow man with slanting eyes sitting in. the doorway, of a little house facing the wide blue bay. Some Christian  ladies wero expostulating'with him. He seemed to be listening politely, but his face was passive, and finally the ladies left with dissatisfied looks. - Mevl approached the little man who seemed strangely, happy and contented as he gazed
ed, for lately, he had' begun! to wonder whether after' all his new religion was the best, and the look of the contented Japanese had made him long to know bis
the soul. Then there were other white . men from'the West who spoke.of Still another hell.ef Lliat was old and revered. And-far'away on distant islands, men like himself told of devils and strange gods unlike any of the others. Mevl was bewildered. His son was a Christian, but he was full of sickness of the mind and body 
ilia ' T__ ____ ... -pays to enter the white . 
heaven.Then poverty came, and Mevi and his son were forced into the. streets to find their food in the gutters or wherever else the white man might throw what remained when he was through. The missionaries could not help him, and his son in disgust-wandered, into the. lower parts of town where Mevi could never find him
Then old, decrepit, and starving, Mevl felt death slowly comiug upon him, and he thought of the strange little yellow man,- . the only completely contented man he had seen. He thought bow sweet it'would be. be happy once more before he died'
Iltical behavior. The tares and thistles which have cluttered the field of International trade during recent years are. traceable for the most part to the doctrines of economic nationalisa which has been planted sedulously by the Interested exponents of high protection and commercial isolation. It has needed a bitter and painful experience .to convince 1 folly. Th time is at hand when some nations.: the risks of a bold experini lowering tariff barriers as a means of recovery
The continent of North America offers an ideal laboratory for such an experimen .trade policy. The political arguments which
plication here. A century of peace and t itable network of cultural and commercial relationships'between our two countries give
appropriate to warfar*
The time has passed, moreover, when such political considerations as annexation can be Introduced with any seriousness into the dissions. The unfortunate interjection of this provocative Issue during the Canadian elections which determined the fate of the Recl_ oclty Agreement , of 1911 was due to  the failure of 6ome American political leaders to
others ought to have 1 recognized and understood. But all this lies, in the past and need not be recalled except as a. warning against the tepetiHon of previous failures.
What is Being Said
conditions. Assume that after a light fall of r in the early hours of the morning ar lmal passes over the ground near a h'< Hours later an expert can tell by examining the footprints .whether the animal was a rabbit, .opossum or fox.
Hume, on.the olher hand. that three.).....,standing at a dlBtahce i'n .ilhe '.half-light of. dawn saw that animal pasB.  Ttie chances i that no one of them would agree as .to I breed of animal they saw. The eye witness testimony would be much less conclusive I that' of the export who. never "even saw animal.Attorney^ General Cummings.
EVERYTHING FLOWED smoothly at the Interfraternlty .last 
Friday, and we went home tired but atill happy . . . somebody 
deserves credit for a swell evening . . . but Student Council 
and ' Interfraternlty Council are' still. fighting to aee who really 
gave the dance . . . both had representatives on the door, to 
honor their respective complimentary tickets . . . just a prac
tical example of inflation . . . the grand march went off with
out the customary hitch ... all the Delts looked sweet with 
pansies in their lapels . . . its the fraternity, flower, we hear 
. . ^ the Betas had their tea as usual, sans cups . . . were you 
Haltering and Hurdling? ... or didn't you get in before school 
authorities closed the naughty place? . . . three, of the Beta* 
knowns, Messrs. Noord, Weinberg, and Parker, all with Henri
etta De Haven at the time, failed to escape the sharp eyes of 
the Dean and were severely reprimanded for gazing upon the 
wine that Is red . . . conduct unbecoming Carnegie stewdents, 
you know . . . Bert Latimore sported the only top bat-. . . 
but there were lots of tails . . . the Committee flipped coins all 
afternoon to decide what club banner Tated what position ... 
several bouses served breakfast afterwards.
FACE ON THE BATHROOM FLOOR Mitchell, christened 
Guthrie Merwln Mitchell, got awfully tired and spent a large 
part of the evening'with good ol George, energetic and sub
servient commander-in-chief of the mens room. After the dance 
was over Chuck Slater and a couple other brothers helped steer 
past the chaperons and home.
BEST CRACK of the evening is credited to the inebriate who re
plied when warned that too much drinking would ruin his stom
ach, Sall right, wont show with my coat on. '
ORCHIDS to somebody for permitting the dorm girls to stay out 
until 4:30 last Friday, or that Saturday . . . quite a nice hour, 
we think . . . incidentally, the height of nonchalance is achiev
ed by those good-night ceremonies on the porches and alcoves 
of the various dorms, particularly Forbes-Hall . . the couples
arrive about three minutes before the girls are due inside and 
. fall into clinches until the deadline, utterly unconscious of 
others all about them, similarly engaged .... It's rather em
barrassing for the men, but the ladles seem used to it . . . 
some people get so tongue-tied about things like that.
MORTENS MIRTH: latest one of Buzzs belly-laffs: SBSShhhh, 
tch, tch, tcb, tch, tchsssshhhh, Ich, tch, tchI'm a dJal phone.
STAID INDIVIDUALS who have only recently become accus
tomed to clgarette-sinoklng co-eds were'handed'another shock 
between the eyes last week when two of Carnegies more^gen* 
teel young things were observed smoking pipes lit the Beanery 
... if you euglneers are partial to women with mutual inter
ests, Johnny Blackball can furnish the names.
ABOUT THE-jucieQt gossip morsel uncovered in ages concerns 
. the: rumored.-marrlage of Owen Bowser. Its; supposed to have 
Lbeeh -WeiJeburg, iast September; with Croft, Hudson and Moore 
as backer-uppers. The ladyHelen Cochran-, who for years had 
played the role of the girl back home; Congratulations, BowWow, Jf theyre in order.
1 And now a certain Mellon miss should see the light. >
On. Second Thouglit
Dudley D. Pendletqn, Jr.
Willful PUfery
Parlez-Vous at the recent Miami convention cf the American gion, the sub-committee on resolutions cudgeled its brains for a petlTh.e result was a resolution; carried-.
ment of the adjusted com-, pensation certificates b e made as the veterans proper share of the governments vast relief penditures and; 2that the government give up the right charge interest op the
1932.
Bonus and Legion Got Start in 1919 
The whole question of the boi might be said to have begun with the formation of the American Legion in 1919, one of whose purposes, in addition to supporting ~ constitution, law, order, peace, and freedom, was to be "a devotion to mutual helpfulness. The legionaires took this last clause ously that within a year, according to Henry Goddard Leach of the Forum, it was able to boast:
"The Legion is uot ashamed of the record of its committee (Legislative) - - -
Congress in
the SpanishAmerlcan veterans in ten.
A DollaiBy 1924 the Legion representatives In Washington had become so skilled in the devices of the lobbyist that Congress was led to believe that veterans "who stood by their country in time of stress* were entitled to at least a dollar a day. more for their services. This sum amounting to nearly four billions was to be payable in 20 years, and to make the move eound less like robbing the treasury, the bonus was labeled. "adjusted compensation. The act
by President Coolldge, but gressmen, flooded with letters from their legionary constituents, forgot their real duty to the people and passed the bill over the Presidents veto.
'agcu-b; its
_4. 50 per cent on the fa*tralue of their adjusted ceriL cates." This move, -takers vantage of by nearly three wiiC veterans, left the treasury in vred a.trifling $1,500,00.0..New BillPending.Now after 14 years* rolling ihft snowball of veteran legislation' has reached such dimension there seems to be nothing atwhii. it hestitates. The -tact that iS bonus is not due until 1945 ^ the fact that the treasury eannoi stand ever-increasing, 
to make little difference, and it Jn probably be .within the ne:
weeks that actlon upon aaeiv tet erans bill embodying the subglanc of the Miami resolution wuj v! pending in Congress. This mean, if interest on the boiroweT portion is not charged, a cash m<i lay of 52,600,000. 
It seems a little strange that go small a portion of the population should feel justified in demandin' this enormous sum as its aban of government relief money wW the work relief funds for the whole country amounts to only $1,400 004
The danger Jd the situation ii not that this particular expenditure will wreck . the country, but as many able critics have pointed oui that'the same arguments that wii apply to this appropriation can inter be used again for still larger appropriations. Already 24 cent on the national income goes into pensions, bonuses, hospiui care, etc., for veterans of past nan and as 1914 recedes into the past there seems to be little doubt tbal this percentage will Increase Senators Can Hardly Ignor Legion Lobby
Senators and representatiiej can hardly ignore the potferiti American Legion lobby vhldi threatens them with if you doni vote for the bonus, the man who fills your place next fall will." As one young congressman said beiore voting for the veteran loan bill In 1932, This is a $10,000 job and they dont grow on bushes ihla year, ive got to keep my job."With congressmen taking ibis attitude and with this veterans' lobby back of which are a million men who feel thdi the countrj owes th^m a limitless debt, ties nation takes & really serious tut Why, as President Roosevelt ncently said, should any person "because he wore a uniform ... be placed in a special class of beoeI'll bite.. Why should they?.
CORRECTION
The Tartan wishes to correct an omission that occurred Me last weeks issue concerning the Gamma Phi Sigma Social Sorority.Ruth Gustafson 36 Is the lnlrsorority Couafcil represented and Mrs. Blackmore of the DepartlegA MaBter of Nursing degree bag * been created at Yale University for graduates of that institution's School of Nursing.-
Taea cigarette
%
like Chesterfield
and to have the clouds and doubts cleai from his mind. So stumbling and shaking legs, he
More Police, Please
jiv - ^ rpHE .very brazenness with which pilferers
I11  have iaided parked cars on the campus is
'.appalling condemnation of the City Police 
fp?.7. Force. True, a certain amount of petty thievf^PyMf^-7'ery must be expected at air timeswe do not 
K~,'> < expect absolute efficiency. But when ofiendi \ ers can-carry on their nefarious undertakings
;. ln>broad daylight, things are indeed in a sorry 
. . state of affairs.  - 
| Although , approached often enough by the 
ji, Faculty committee appointed to act on this
S^J.||-:';'->'v'inatter, theCity Police have done little to 
g,0W^--rae^&-...Cental.apasv 
Jii.!)'':modlc1 attempts have been-made but they have 
s :-fc&d;a3mostf no effect.  t
i^ItfisV^eyident that co-operation is required 
M.C^om thosfe Who have suffered losses, to prove.
tbis; must be stamped  
.Enough written evidence 
P'i^usWtie:'^ show that the. petty
a . !/i:^ieYeiT has grown, to too; great proportions.'' 
pli^Mhos^.yicti^ fzed ' by. pilferers .should report
tt&Kpirrn ian of the Faculty committee, so that he 
%tair: U0e it to demand adequate protection.
house' faiclhg the bay, -where the man of ...Tapaa-aaian.thedaor-wav. the smoke from his long pipe wreathing his old passive 
face.Father, cried the old Mevi, you. are  wiser tlvan 1, 'Cor you havefoundcontciit.. ment. Tell nie the secret of your happiness, for death is near .me, and I canuot die in doubt and terror. Then the little man .with 'the santing
a...
; and looked out across the blue bay. Mevi followed his gaze and saw the mountain of Yoma'falsing, her majestic, head above the waters while the. silver moou sailed above her.The voice of the Japanese floated like the song oi the breeze towards the bay. 'We all climb the -mouutain By different routes, but when.we reach the top, we all look at the same moon."Then MeVi heard and understood that religion comes from the heart and although differing greatly in different hearts
. the crac_k3 ;._bel.weeu_ thebamboo upon .trnoo piaeln'g flowers in'~ her hair.-Gladly, almost'as though he were young again, Mevi ran down to the beach where the canoes of the jioor native fishermen etoodL, Taking,,his.own, he rowed.but upon . the silver path of the moon that led to the mountain of Yoma,' at whose feet, bis ancestors lay. burled;
\
JOCELYN PEARSALL.
g DN DNMcj j(c^rw.'^ypacuse - University.p.y TrHRV p O ........
S^-^terelpieri' or. a'.red, it is all ,right forr: .po-^1lc^en:vtb-use.'phyblc'al 'coerpion: to-trick.hijnkvS'intoy-hletconfeMionV^but'iif^he.'.happena-to.be
li^rJ^iverage.'' Citizen wlVo --pfoljably. ..doesn't;, kfib'w'what the -inside of--a,-jall lij like, such., ot> Isagalnstv ''V^:'K6neit;!;^pleshouia:?rl^^
ndr.-:thls. plan, ;1*606 students will receive federi aid in the form.of port-time jobs which pay an average of fi fteen dollare a nionth.
tion for. New York.,Unlveralty.Vi:This; is probably  larger gi'ant ;than any - other-universitywill, receive, withj th poseIble -exception of
j ' :1 /~ 
You know TUke that cigarette.
I like the way it tastes... theres 
: plenty of taste there.
Chesterfield is mild, not .strong 
';-v v. and thats another thing I 
/ like in a cigarette.
Whats more, They Satisfy . . . 
and thats what I like a cigarette 
to do.
I get a lot of pleasure out of 
Chesterfield . . you know I like 
diat cigarette. iT
fS&Bi
y
^ /
y/----------
/MONDAY WEDNESDAY SATUBDAT
LDCREZIA  LILY RICHABD
BORI PONS BONELLI
eostelanbtz oiCH^srmA and cbokvb QP.M. f.. pyV -if^tirwit tpSdd .

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. MARCH 5. 1935
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
' .   ..
BY JERRY HANSON
City Contest Marks Close of Clan Cage Sensori
Tartans Meet 
Dukes T onight
Panthers, Owls Defeat 
Straggling Scots
PITT LEADS CITY
LOTTA ADS .  . Easy on you,- dear reader, easy on me . . . Im wondering about the foul decisions of the Pitt-Tech cage cla6b.... Incl* 
dentally Carnegie'floor shooting-was on the usual par tout ; . .
Ted JUgg tuiped in his superior quotaconsistent Js. the word . . .
Excuse last weeks picture. Ted; you were od the trip and that -was the 
could find . .. Note the Big Swim . . . front page stuff . . .
Quote merman Scotty (Donald Dare) Charles: F. & Mv will take It 
. watch Oylmpic baekstroker, etc., Chalmers, breaststroker Wetzel, 
and soph sprinter Whltey Solo . . Skidmore of West Virginia and
Mellinger of Carnegie took first and second for Individual honors in the 
mlder Lo shoulder, shoot . . .. The U. S. Marine Corps from PWlly 
took first, Carnegie and West Virginia second and third . . . Mary 
Weltachs flz in4he S'Wiy roto section . . . 'fieetlepuss Ely tallied
a knockout in steen seconds at Catholic U. ... The boy uses his head
Two opponents to date have suffered'sprained -wrists-trying to 
put tUc kayo on him . . . The Beta bridge teamsters to5k 
Bela Sigs . .  overwhelmingly . . . Discovered later that they weren'i 
in the same league . .  Missed btss2 on Krltchers shiner last week 
something about stumbling over -a bath-tub . . . Cunningham 
:) get a new world record' in. the 1,600 meter race ... Ad Ar*.
swimmer 6et a'swim record of 26B miles, 87 hours, 19 minutes I the Plaid games have been going
And ye faithful scribe sets a record for concentrating this dish. well this year. .Although tbe ScotsI have not had what could be called n successful seuson, In the strictest sense of tbe term, doubtedly been maki
Yellow Cat Win Eastern 
Intercollegiate Title
By Jim Hughes
Plaid basketeers, Lhls game will also be . important because of Its bearlug on the City League title.If the Dukes are once more successful over their rivals, they wvill be tied with Pitt for first place and the City Championship. If such should' be the case, it will be the second straight time that tbe Panthers and the Dukes have been tied for Ibis title.
Tbis encounter should measure rather high standards, - for
Track Candidates 
Report to Gym
ferty has announced that tho members of the varsity track team are .to report in the Trophy Room on Thursday afternoon at 4:30. The i
nieeting-at a later date.
All those who were out for managers positions last year, are urged to report this .year, as -well as those who wish to come out this' year. There', are many openings for under* classmen in ' managing positions in track. It is hoped that freshmen and - sophomores will take advantage of this chance to make the Tartan letter.
Tartans Second 
On Home Ranges
Mellinger Takes Second in 
Individual Scoring
the lagging Tartans have even a - chance to get ttaei hands on the ball, for their oppo-_ nents got off'
- Lose on Foule ITho second half proved to be going a little more the Scots wa$r, for they put forth one of those
Carnegies strong rifle team man* 
aged to finish In second place in 
the meet on Saturday-in which the 
marksmen from th United, States Marin Corrs of "Philadelphia, the
entered. The.- Marines garnered 1,399 points, and 'Carnegie'1,36!~
' Mellinger, Plaid -number four
marksmen, for although they did not carry oil individual honors, their average was high enough ic carry the Aeld. The team rder of standing was as written in tb< first paragraph.
Skibo Splashers Lose to Reserve
During Final Contest of Season
Plaid Boxers Bow 
To Cardinal Team
e Carnegie swimming team 
finished Us dual season last Saturday afternoon by dropping a swlm-l mlog meet to Western Reserve College of Cleveland by a score of 43- 5:2. Though the Tartans easily whitewashed the Red Cats lost year, the Clevelanders presentedr much stronger aggregation 'this season and defeated the Sklbos without much difficulty. The loss gives the Plaid an even scoring for the year with four wins and four losses, in eight meets.
Tartans Win Three Events 
The Western Reserve splashers showed a good deal>o class ii nexlng the meet, sewing up events early and allowing the Kilties but three firsts in the ontire afternoon and one of these was a fluke. Tho Red Cate got under way early and annexed tho relay in 1:42.7 whon the Tech swimmers were unahlo lo overcome an early lead. Vonder Lancken was forced to swim 
by Wolpaw o2 Reserv I. The Tartans registered td and third In the fifty with Hammerschmldt and Deredyn turn* Ing the trick. In tho 220-yard free* style, Holiday breezed through to Carnegies first win of the day in 2:30.5 while Charles euagged a 4hlrd in this race.
Reserve Shows Class 
The Clevelanders showed much 
class - in taking the 100-yard backstroke In 1.0B:S without much trouble - while Holl day got a third for the locals. Tho Red Cats took first and third 1b the 100 with Vonder Idinoken grabbing the second . position without
id and third places. The Skibo rnedloy squad of Boutelle, Culler, and DennlBon the 160-yard
Score 6-2; Ely, Kulesz Only 
Winners for Tartans
Fighting before ft crowd of 
about 4.000. the Carnegie hosing 
team went down in defeat to,Oathlie University in Washington on 
Saturday.- Brooke Ely,-who-boxes at 166 pounds, was awarded a technical knockout over his man at tl>.o end of the first round.- Captain Bill Kulesz was the only .other Plaid' boxer to win his fight. Kuleas fights at 165 pounds.
Carnocle lost the other six matches, two by decision, one by forfeit, imd three by knockout Wlsolewskl. Shapira, and. Beni, who were all fighting their secoud fight: bowed to the Catholicrolt* monBeal was entered against the opponent's captain. Becauso  Carnegie did not have s
Womens Athletics
-----by-----
MARGIE GREEN
Intramurals Near 
Finals This Week]
basketball tournament i scheduled for today, one [111:30 between the two freshman d
teams, of course, will minated right then and thei the -winnefsr will carry ___ r developments. Be 1
| the lookout for the schedule  for lie remaining tournament games filch will be posted on the bullein board as soon as posBible.
Our W. A. A. friends from Pitt
, substitutes, and coach to their 1 Basketball Play Day next Saturday 3 afternoon. They have planned * Informal arrangement which each school team will'play ! entire game. However, two 11 not play with each other than one half game. ~..............1 will compete with other teams during the play, this manner, they feel . commend them for their idea) that they will be able 0 get real team play, and yet ivoid the idea of a tournament.i
iVlien not . playing basketball, those who wish to do something other than watch many play pingpour, hart 
. very.j interesting.
I like to have I Red Cross life saving certlficate'in' signia, besides 100 jjolrita towards a TV. A. A. award? All you have lo do is to come out for practf
I Dclts, Kappa Sigs in Playoff; | 
McGill, Theta Xi, All Set
mural basketball circles, and excitement is'runningat a very hTgh pitch at the various
talued. McGill Hall is the dormitory which has a very able tender. These boy
fine showing by virtue of thoir last minute victories and defeats. The last I meeting with the dynamic Hilltop-1 pers was slightly disappointing, for the Dukes wiped up the Plaid out*
At the present time, the Sklbos re once more getting along pretty well, having lost their last two . games by comparatively low If they manage to keep up the pace whichthey have been > setting for themselves, they should, put up some fighting comptition' against the Dukes. Although the
Panthers made good 14 out of IS fouls called on the ScotB, while tbe Tartans completed only 5 of a possible
iHUUoppers lost
barracks have alreaidy cinched the championship of the American league, owing to the other tending team. Beta Theta PIi feat at the lmndB of Alpha Tau Omega last week.
In tho National league the Theta i five will be .the representing seml-finallst. Undefeated in their league, this team appears to be tbe most logical championship winner of those choice few called experts. Th Theta Xis :ar ;aB-well rouudcd out team as any of contenders, and will make thlng9 hum for all those other'teams who  have something to say about winning of that very much 
coveted cup. The Federal league presents entirely different setup than .that the other two leagues. There, a tie between Kapp'a'Sigma and 
Delta Taii Delta as"  result of a game played a couple of weeks
of their star performers when Murphy was taken away by that old friend, Ineligibility, their squad seems to be
1 yourself amply rewarded next

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 1935
THE 
CAR NE G I E 
PLAID
P*g edited by Night Scho Coxzfo:;"lQfUtste  "
\ H. INGHAM E. F. WHITE WILLIAM E HAKE
Is Germany Civilized?
The world was shocked by the 
hratallty of the blood purge of 
last summer la Germany,, and 
less than a year later, news 
more harrowing event which Ban 
\ taken place In the same locality is 
received. The Incident in ques
tion istbe recent execution of the 
two women who were accused of 
being spies.
 Regardless of tbe angle Ircai 
which the casela reviewed, no 
matter what the legalistic justifies 
\ lion for the beheading of these 
women may be, the fact still re* 
wains that their execution cannot be denuded of its horrifying brutality. It will go down in -history as. a blemish on the face of the Nazi movement and take its placo alongside the spectacular purge of ay ear ago.
It was thought at that Ume that Hitler would profit by the deluge
Fuehrer places little value on tbe sentiment of the outside world, for. bad he been able io see beyond tbe extremities of his. own nose, he might have been chivalrous enough to have mitigated the sentence to -life imprisonment. At .least he could hava commuted it in such a manner as to be less bar-baric than tbe spectacle-juBt enacted In Berlin.
IT. this is the sort of publicity
7 leaf before it Is too late.
Didja Notice
THAT despite the near zero temperature on the outside, theN. S. C. office has been pretty - hot these evenings.THAT the name is Schottz " and not Schultz, we are in*
THAT one of the Council -member certainly, put hie foot
THAT for the' time being,, this page has changed editors.THAT'no matter how.far and fast a fish may awlmi it still < perspire.
talk about Major offices.
Historical Highlights
 of 
Night Student Council
Campus Activities Open 
For All Night Students
Last week we saw that there v 
a definite need for activities of 
extra-curricular nature and also 
that these activities were partici
pated in by tbe night students. We also saw that tbe night students 
participated in general campus 
tlvitles as well as individual group 
activities.
Those of a general campus 
ture were all the various r 
athletic as well ae tbe athletic 
tivltles. Tbe njght students were 
eligible to belong to and take part 
In those, activities wblch they could 
And lime to indulge is and often 
5 the support given by the 
night group was remarkable.
-To finance these activities, fees ere collected for both tbe no athletic and tbe athletic group Tbe system of collecting tbe fee
McCormack to 
Fill Vacancy
Chosen, by Council Vote 
At'-Special Meeting
The recent elevation of Earnt Grimm into-the officeof Presi
dent of the Night Student Council 
has caused a vacancy In the Col
lege of Engineering officers. Inas
much as the president of Council 
hold no other office, Mr. 
Grimm was forced to relinquish his 
office as vice president of Engi
neering. In* accordance ...with the 
rules lalddown lit'the constitution. 
The Council Js empowered, .to. fill 
the office by election. Thin has been done, and George M.cCorluack of the Mechanical Engineering department was elected to fill the office,Mr. McCormack ' is, like other members of the Night Student Council, a veteran of Carnegie. His interest In tlie activities of the school has dated from his entranco Carnegie. He has served long
these facts not all students trilmted towards the support of the respective groups.
Of course not all night students ere able to participate in tbe ex* tra-curricnlar activities. Some, times, though they bad the deBlre to support them, they were prevented from. participation because
) of the reasons for the :
tie by little there was a decrease In the number of students taking advantage of the privilege offered.
Gradually there was a drifting apart of the groups until only a very small number of night students actually paid the fees. From time to time efforts were made and means found to increase the ber of activities fees paid with -the esult that a spurt -wa total collections made, but hi only a temporary measure and did
Thistle Staff Asks 
Graduates Support
Drensen or Mr. Scburko.
which organization, he hasseveral capacities. Mr. McCormick's entrance into the affairs of the Night Student Council comes ruther late in Ihe season but members of the Council vouch for hi' capacity to carry on the work of bis predeceBBor.
Councils Split Over 
Interjfraternity Ball
carried out independently of Student Council.
A letter was Bent to each complimentary ticket recipient in Student Council stating that-only those
Council was called'Thursday night Interfraternity Council's :deciaion. It was decided at this meeting that since It was the right
Phi Nu Fraternity 
Sponsors Lecture
Group First to Bring Unusual 
Activity to Students
In keeping with their policy ot 
working for the general well being 
of the night student body, phi Nu 
Fraternity has announced that 
their organization is to sponsor 
lecture and dinner. This is the 
first time that any organization hae 
stepped into the field ot bringing activities of--thlB nature to the stndent body in general. Plans for the evening are not yet complete, but It.Jane.been .announced .that the topic of'th'ictur^frlll-'be -round the'air conditioning industry which is being proclaimed as-the rising business In tbe engineering and architectural field. The lecture will be preceded by & dinner for which
NIGHT LIGHTS
Chances are that John Salko gets more thanhis-.nickels worth In bis full hour's telephone talk to his girl every night! . . . Another
clasB, who meets his girl every night after school . . . The phrase Wheres Elmer? must have originated in Captain Dosey's foundry shop . . . Incidentally, the captain won-the first round of the pinochle tournament last week . . . Tbe boys in-Ed Bisceys class ar< excited because Ed just got his first job ... Although an IndusEd still looks longingly towards the Drama Department 
Jack' Hezlep has ull his classmates gnashing their teeth and wishing their p&paB bad. attended . Dola Malowich ^attended the hardware convention held In Pittsburgh . . . The brains behind the air conditioning leeDr. Miller Criticizes 
v 9y,1 Belief'Policy
labor 'aurplus iats, -' government wages below the' levels, of similar private occupations will tend to iower private wages nlso. "Wagereductlon, as cannot be emphasized too strongly, is a quixotic remedy for the depression, yet one which private employers are always sorely tempted to apply because It Is so vulnerable. The Administration would ' clearly be ' inconsistent because In so many waysthe NRA codes, prohibition of child labor, etc.. It haB been attempting to pul a floor under wageB by setting
President Roosevelt hopes that this new "priming of the pump" of spending will be successful to tbe extent that jobs will Boon be created in private industry, thus decreasing th "made work. But may this not sooner come, the sooner wages are distributed by a huge government construction program utilizing more .efficient labor, because' there' is no doubt tbat higher paid labor is ordinarily more efficient. Withal, other countries which have sought to put laborers to work  st pittance wages hav succeeded in spreading the butter in thinner-'  amounts over more slices of bread. And with our potential capacitiesin the.u. -S., natural and humanis there any reason why we also should resort to a lowering of the genera! standard of living? This certainly is not "recovery and assuredly not "raNATHAN MILLERThe little Brown jug, tbe symbol
Engineers Change Dale 
Of Banquet to April 16
The date of the annual banquet 
of tbe College of Engineering has 
been moved up from April 13, as 
was--announced in .the handbook, 
to April 6. The committee in charge 
hopes that this .change of dates 
will not inconvenience any of the 
members of the Engineering school 
who may have made plaus to at
tend, and are taking this oppor
tunity to announce the change welt 
Jn advance so that the Engineers 
can plan acordlngly. _____
Nu Sigma Alpha Plans 
Event Saturday, Mar. 9
On Saturday, -March 9, Nu Sigma 
Alpha Fraterolty-*wlll. hold a smok
er for members and friends of their, 
-organization: 'TSie emOk^v wDl'-.be 
held In tbe Carnegie Union on the 
third floor of the Administration 
building. The publicity committee 
of the fraternity has indicated thnt 
a very attractive program of enter
tainment "has-been planned. Activi
ties are scheduled to begin at 8:00 p. m. Following tbe main part of the program a lunch will be served
Industrial Group 
Will Hold. Dana
The College .of Industries Wt]] _ 
hold the second dance of their k; 1 
'son. a Thistte, .haU on SaLurda,-! 
March 16.' According  to lir.' S^ -1 
president or the college, the 'I 
mittee has as yet, made no deflojlt j 
plans as to who will furnish twl 
music. The decorations will beig j 
keeping with the season, and ft I 
Stone states that no effort wiu be I 
spared in putting the dance u>' | 
among the leaders ot the aeaeoB.
